

~---------·---------------------··~ ~ 
Interview strategy -page 4 
VOL. XX, NO. 129 
Magazine 


Reagan says allies 
publisher 
discusses 
suggested strong attack business to halt Libyan terrorism 
By MARA SMITH Associated Prns News Staff bases by U.S. Air Force planes par­Running a major sports magazine WASHINGTON President ticipating in the attack. Reagan said yesterday that after he "We found that some of them
means more today than reporting decided to launch a limited military were suggesting that -not that thescores, according to Donald Barr, strike against Libya, some U.S. answer be nothing of that kind ­publisher of Sports Illustrated. 
allies suggeste a coordinated, "all­but that we look seriously at,The magazine industry is "big out" attack to force a chance in together, real major action againstbusiness," he said, and magazines 
Moammar Khadafy's policy of ex­Libya," Reagan said. "Some of provide an important medium for 
porting terrorism. them suggested that ... if we were many major advertisers. In an interview with the going to resort to force, that then 
Barr, a 1957 graduate of Notre Associated Press and other news perhaps it should be a wider-based Dame, spoke for the Alumni Lec­agencies, the president said the sug­and a more all-out effort to change ture Series yesterday in the gestions were "that we look serious­the Libyan policy." 
ly together at real major action" Walters consulted with leaders in Memorial Library auditorium. He 
against Libya. Great Britain, West Germany,commented on the magazine in­He did not name the nations or France, Italy and Spain betweendustry as he has seen it through his the leaders who offered that advice. April 11 and April 15. The bomb­30 years of experience with Tim, But the Washington Times, in a ing raid occurred early on the mor­Inc. and his present position as 
report published yesterday, quoted ning of Aprill5, Libyan time. publisher for Sports Illustrated. 
a senior administration official as In Paris, there was no immediate 
"Sl is not just a sports magazine. saying French President Francois official reaction to Reagan's It is a big business and a large force Mitterrand told U.S. envoy Vernon remark, with a spokesman for the in the advertising community," said Walters he would support the mis­Foreign Ministry saying only, "We Barr. sion only if it were strong e11ough have noted the comments." 
As the fith largest magazine in adv to be aimed at overthrowing In the Hague, a Dutch foreign Khadafy. mtmstry spokesmand said his
ertising revenue, Barr emphasized 
1 ne UI>Serier ll'aull'anoresky 
Walters made a whirlwind tour government "knew nothing of suchhow Sports Illustrated is unique in of European capitals in the days a suggestion."
its appeal to advertisers. Barr Donald Barr, publisher of Sports Illustrated and a 1957 just before the April 14 air raid to Reagan said he expects to discuss spoke on how Sports Illustrated's graduate of Notre Dame, addressed a crowd in the Memorial inform the allies of U.S. intentions the matter further next week when new "Get the Feeling" advertising 
Library auditorium yesterday about his experiences in the and seek their suport. Only Britain he meets other allied leaders at the campaign symbolizes the magazine business. Barr stressed the importance of magazines for publicly backed Reagan's actions seven-nation economic summit in 
TUESDAyI APRIL 22, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
magazine's unique role in the advertising today. Story at left. and permitted use of British air Tokyo. magazine industry. 
"At Sl we do things differently. We've got an edge: sport," said Barr. "Sport is America's lifestyle. 


Bishop freed after being held by Libyans
Sportswriting coupled with 

photography creates a feeling you tion. He would say only that the involvement in terrorist attacks bases in Britain for the air raid,
get nowhere else." Assocla ted Press Libyans "questioned us about our against Americans. "will lose its interest and it presence 
Barr emphasized that Sports Il­TRIPOLI, Libya -The leader of presence and work as Roman The Foreign Ministry met with definitely and finally because of its
lustrated's view of sport as Libya's Roman Catholics, freed Catholic priests." Western diplomats over the conformity with the U.S.
presented through creative writing after 10 days of detention, said The Libyan government apologiz­weekend and said foreign workers madness," JANA said. 
and photography meets a wide yesterday that he was questioned ed for the arrest and said it had who wished to leave would be
range of interests, setting it apart Another JANA article urged the
about Church activity in this been a mistake, the bishop said in allowed to do so, but those who
from other specialty magazines. 
Common Market not to impose
Moslem country and that the U.S. an interview with the Associated wanted to stay would not be sub­
"We are not designed to tell who diplomatic or economic santions
air strike probably delayed his Press in his office at St. Francis jected to harassment, diplomats
won or lost," said Barr. "We report against this North African Arab
release. Church. from several Western embassies
the why and the how with polished nation of 3 million people. Foreign
Bishop Giovanni Martinelli, ar­Martinelli said of his inter­reported. The diplomats insisted
prose and sparkling phtography." 
ministers form the Commonrested April 10 in Benghazi with rogators, "They excused on anonymity.
As a 30-year veteran in the Market nations met yesterday in
four priests and a nun, said he was themselves repeatedly and gave us About 18,000 Westerners work in
magazine industry, Barr spoke of Luxembourg and decided to curtail
released Saturday and returned to all comforts, even a radio to listen Libya's oil and construction in­
its development over the years and the movements of Libyans in their
the Libyan capitol Sunday, and to the news." dustries.
its status today. "After 30 years the countries, but they did not discuss
that the other clerics were released Observers said the release ap­At the same time, the official Li­
publishing industry has never look­economic sanctions. 
over the weekend. peared to be part of a government byan news agency JANA attacked

ed healthier," said Barr. Martinelli, born inLibyaof Italian campaign to reassure the foreign Britain and warned Italy and the Before Martinelli's release,
Aside from the glamorous aspects parents 44 years ago, spoke community following the April 15 European Common Market in a Western diplomats speculated thatof the business, such as spending a guardedly and would not go into American attack. President series of articles yesterday. his arrest was part of a tactic to in­weekend at th~ Super Bowl or 

detail about the reasorn for his ar­Reagan ordered the strike retalia­Britain, which let the United timidate and pressure the United see BARR page 3 
rest or elaborate on his interroga-tion for what he said was Libyan States launch bombers form air States against any military strike. 

Chilled 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and ROTC unit commanding officers brav­ed the low temperatures yester­day to review the University's ROTC units. The Army, Navy and Air Force units paraded for Hesburgh and the officers in the parking lot south ofthe A CC. 
The Observer /Poul Pahoraky 


The Observer Tuesday, April 22, 1986 -page 2 


In Brief 
The punishments for violations of theovernight parietals rule were discussed at last illght's Student Senate meeting, but no official stand was taken on the penalties, according to Student Senator Brian Holst. The senators looked at the proposal presented by junior Bruce Lohman to the Campus Life Council several montns ago, said Holst. Lohman's proposal would eliminate from du Lac the provision that "overnight parietal viola­tions involve suspension or dismissal" and replace it with a provi­sion providing for a lesser penalty in most cases. According to Holst, the CLC and the senate likely will wait_ until next fall before taking any official action on the propos3.I. -The Observer 
Research papers by three Notre Dame students were presented recently at DePauw University's Midwest Student Sociology Conference. Steven Skikos entered his paper "An­nulments and the Canon Law Among Catholics" in the Religion and Ideology category, Timothy Diamond entered "Income and Retirement Satisfaction of University Faculty" in the Sociology of work and Occupations Category, and Patria Mesina entered "The Reform of Laws on Child Support" in the Family and Childhood in the 1980s category. Student participating in the conference are from several universities, including Indiana, Valparaiso, Wiscon­sin, Ohio State and Illinois. -The Observer 
Six ROTC seniors were honored at yesterday's annual Tri-Military Presidential Review. Midshipman First Class Gary Chura received the Strake Foundation Award, Midshipman First Class Anthony Kremer received the Reverand J. Hugh O'Donnel Award, Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Alan Perry received the Reverand John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. Award, Cadet Major Kevin Browne received the Patrick Dixon Award, Cadet Colonel Jodi Sacre received the Notre Dame Air Force Award, and Cadet Se­cond Lieutenant Jule Schuesster received the Noel A. Dube Award. -The Observer 
Two debate teams from Notre Dame recently com­peted in the CEDA National Debate Championships. Representing the Irish was the team of Mike Monberg, 1986-87 president of the Notre Dame team, and Steve Rawlings, and the team of Paul Vielski and Rob Henning. Three Notre Dame team members, newly-elected secretary/treasurer Dominic Alfaro, Sean O'Don­nel, and Kevin Mundy will compete in the National Forensic league's Individual Events National Championship in Bloomsberg, Pa. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The An Tostal Loudmouth preliminary com­petition will be held tonight at 8 on the stepan Courts. -The Observer 
The last blood drive of the school year will be at the health center today and tomorrow from 12:30 p.m. to 3:30p.m. ­
The Observer 


Weather 
. Algid temperatures will con­tmue to put the chill on Bookstore Basketball today, with variable cloudiness and northwest ~inds bl?wing at 10 to 20 mph. Highs will be m the middle 40s with a chance of snow fluf­~ies. It will clear up tonight, with temperatures m the low 40s. 




.She'. do~ a.jca.i V\ ••• 
k 
The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production errors. The situation will be amended as soon as 
IP possible. 
The Observer ( l 'SPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durint~ exam and vacation pt:riods.Thc Obsrrvcr is published by the students of the 1 ni\'ersitv of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for SW pe~ year ( SlO per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 
~<>556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction right• are 
reSI"rv~d. 


Domers' different dialects display diversity of origin across campus 
Y'a/1 come back now, y'hear? 
-Minnie Pearl 
Grand Ole Opry 
Accents are funny. 

One time during my first year at Notre Dame I was surprised to hear someone say "Hey, you guys!" to a group of girls. 
Since then I have noticed repeatedly the use of "guy" for all students at this school, regardless of age or sex. I've used it a lot myself. 
It has taken me a while, however, to get used to the local Midwestern dialect. I'm from Tennessee, and down there we normally don't refer to girls as guys. I guess that's one of the things one has to deal with when coming to a university in northern Indiana. 
That there are so many colorful ways to talk in the nation is exemplified by the student body here. The University of Our Lady attracts students from all over the states. People from Hawaii to Miami bring with them the twists and twangs of the tongue they speak at home. In addition to these are the foreign accents that can be heard among the prevalent regional dialects. 
I soon began to notice many different ways to say the plural you other than you guys. 
• 
Dudes is a popular one, probably derived from the beach-set trend mixed with southern influence. It's a good word for fitting into difficult places. It's often used as an interjection, as well. "Dude, g'bye," is how one of my roommates signs off the phone. The pro­blem with dude is that it works well only with guys, er, men. 

• 
I'm told that you'uns comes from the Pittsburgh area, although it permeates quite a bit of the East. In the city itself, supposedly the people shorten the phrase to y'ins. Not a pretty sound to call someone, at any rate. 

• 
Youse also rises from the East, although it's popularity seems to be fading even there. But youse generally is followed by guys, which causes problems again. 


The difference in dialects don't always create dif­ficulties. Two years ago, I knew a New Yorker who had a twin brother also attending Notre Dame. The two were impossible to tell apart, except that one of them always said "kid" and the other "guy." So if I met them at the same table in the dining hall, I couldn't tell which one of them I had sat down next to until one said, "Hey, guy (or kid), how's it goin'?" 
Although accents are often helpful and colorful, they also can get in the way and cause normal conver­sations to be like obstacle courses_ in which the 
Tripp Baltz 
News Editor 
speakers stumble over "huhs?" "whats?" and "come agains?" 
Consider how difficult it can be to explain to a din­ing hall worker that you are not requesting something, but asking what it is. 
Regional accents are less of an issue in this country than they are in one like Germany, where a southerner cannot be understood at all by a northerner. Dialects were formed in parts of Europe as ancient tribes settl­ed. Often these tribes were separated by huge moun­tain walls into isolated valleys. 
The quick manifest destiny of America prevented such confusion from occurring in our own language. Imagine what it would be like if a Chicagoan went to Los Angeles and had to take along a "California Phrase Book." 
The issue of whether you guys or another phrase is best for general use arose in an argument I overheard last weekend. Finally, a friend of mine and fellow Memphian stopped the discussion, widely extended his arms, smiled broadly, and said, "Y'all." 
Finally, it was established that there was a single term that could be used in any situation. Just say to yourself, "Y'all come up and party with us some time." Now that is a name that could be applied to anybody. 
The warm, all-encompassing sound of Y'a/1 seemed to end the debate. 

Mr. Goodbar ,SI_ 

ClueNo.2 ~ 
While here he played basketball with the boys, 
Afterbreaking cur­few, the Navy was his choice. 
ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTI!I!RS Center for Teaching Non-Violence is seeking fuU-time stalf. Lodging. Jl SO/mo., A health coverage. One year commitment with $2000 separation stipend. Public Interest research and publishing on aggres­
sion,  developing  courses  on  non­ 
violence  and  operating  National  
Coalition  on  Television  Violence  

(lV, ftlms, war ·toys, spans, etc.). Next to University of Illinois. Student loans deferable. 217-384-1920. Resume to Thomas Radecki, M.D., Box2157Cham IL61820. 

~·············~··································~··~
* ~
* *•••• M t· ·~••• ~
* * ee . ~ ~
* * ~ ~


i : Notre Dame Football Coach : !
* 
..

* 
..


: .********************" :!* LOUHOLTZ i~ : "******************** ~ 
* fa ~
: at t e BLUE & GOLD Pep rally : 
* 
..

* 
.. 


: Friday, april 25, 7:00pm t : Enter Northwest Stadium Gates !
* 
~

* 
~

* 
~

* 
~

* 
~ 


: *If rain: Main Arena of the ACC 7:00pm t 
* ~
* 
~ ~ ~

* 
.. ~ ~ 


: :sponsored by the Around the Corner Club and Student Government t t 
* ~.... • •• ¥.. :
..*...................................................•~ 


The Observer Tuesday, April, 22, 1986 -page 3 

• 


The Observer /Paul Pahoresky



Son of Stonehenge 
A miniature replica of the War Memorial appeared on the field house Mal sometime last weekend. It has not been determined yet if the monument is reproducing itself or if the model was the work ofsome pranksters. 




Gorbachev courts W. Europe in effort to disband alliances 
Associated Press 
BERLIN -Soviet leader Mikhail 
Gorbachev stepped up his courtship 
of ~estern Europe yesterday by 
saying he would support disban­
ding the Warsaw Pact and NATO 
alliances. 
At the same time, Gorbachev 
voiced readiness to meet again with 
President Reagan if "the ap­
propriate international atmosphere 
is created." 
The Soviet leader, on a visit to East Germany, also charged that the United States had ignored the opinion of its West European allies by sending warplanes to bomb Libya last week. 
In a speech to workers in East Berlin, the Soviet Communist Par­ty general secretary said Moscow was ready for "a simultaneous disbanding of the Warsaw Pact and NATO, or, for a start, their military organizations." 
The Soviets have previously said they were prepared to scrap the of­Warsaw Pact if the West dissolved the NATO military alliance. The offers have been viewed with skep­
ticism in the West. 
On the possibility of a superpower 
summit this year, Gorbachev said, 
"We are ready for a Soviet­
American meeting so long as the 
approporate international at­
mosphere is created, and real disar­
mament steps are possible." 
His remarks were reported by East 
German television. The state-run 
network filmed Gorbachev's speeCh 
in a machine tool factory in a 
suburb of East Berlin, and 
translated his Russian words into 
German. 
Western diplomatic sources said 
Gorbachev's repetition of the pro­
posal dovetailed with appeals he 
has made to Western Europe from 
East Berlin in the past few days. 
"It looks like this, too, is aimed across the (Berlin) Wall at the West Europeans," said one Western diplomat, who spoke on the condi­tion that he not be identified. 
Yesterday, in his speech to the workers, Gorbachev repeated the proposal on conventional arms and said he also favored "all-European 
cooperation on economic, 
ecological and other issues." 
"It is finally time to grasp the sim­ple thought that the barriers can be removed," he said. Gorbachev then expressed readiness to meet with Reagan. 
Gorbachev kept up his criticism of Reagan yesterday, charging that the United States' "piratical action (against Libya had) not only failed to take notice of world public opi­nion, but of the majority of its NATO allies too." 
Gorbachev has used his public ap­pearances to issued several statements and proposals on disar­mament and East-West relations. Gorbachev's suggestions that troop levels and conventional weapons be reduced have already met with a positive response in West Ger­many, where Chancellor Helmut Kohl yesterday described the pro­posals as a "step forward." 
After his speech, Gorbachev at­tended the closing session of the East German party congress where President Erich Honecker was unanimously re-elected Communist Party chief. 


Trial continues in attack on baby 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -Donna Richard warned her sobbing hus­band shortly after their baby's raped and beaten body was found to "act like a man or they're going to pin this on us," a state police detective testified yesterday. 
"She was pointing her finger at him and speaking to him angrily," Detective Richard Paulhus told the jury weighing whether Ralph Richard raped his 4-month-old daughter, Jerri Ann. 
"She stated to him that he better straighten up, get himself together and act like a man or they're going 
to  pin  this  on  us,"  Paulhus  
testified.  
Mrs. Richard, who  is  c.harged  

with murdering Jerri Ann, then realized several officers had entered the room at Pawtucket police head­quarters and asked the officers to leave, the detective testified. 

Notre Da•e Avenue 
Apart•ents NOW RENTING FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Sesalon) 
Office at I:ZO ND Ave lJ4.:6647 /156-5716 CaiiAnydme 
Located only 5 minutes from Notre Dame, featuring all the luxurie~ in modern living. 
t wao,hcr dryer in mo~t t di~hwa~hcr t private halconyor pdtio t swimming pool t gdranc~ availdhlc 
1671·A N. Kivcr.idc Dr. South Bend, IN 4fifi 16 
2.D·2212 
Paulhus said he then questioned Mrs. Richard, who he said showed "no emotion at all." Mrs. Richard, 34, who is staying with her father in Indiana, will be tried after her hus­band. 
The alleged conversation between the Richards took place on Nov. 15, 1984, less than two hours after the infant's body was found in an alley one block from the cou­ple's Pawtucket apartment. 


Barr 
continuedfrompage I 

traveling with a . swimsuit cover­girl, Barr said he finds the job of publisher "tough." "The publisher faces many complex challenges. Publishing is five businesses within one: editing, circulation, promo­tion, sales and production." 
When giving students advice on entering careers in the magazine in­dustry, Barr warned that the com­petition level is extremely high. Most magazine writers have ex­perience working for newspapers and work their way up to larger publications. 
Barr emphasized that those who are interested in careers in writing or photography can only improve 
their ability through the everyday practice of working for a newpaper. 

ournament Come enjoy the sun and play a round of golf this Sunday, April 20th. All proceeds go to the Salvation Army. 

working agreements with more than 30 hospitals in the United States whete out students do Iheir third and fourth years of clinical clerks hips. Accredited by the government of Dominica • Listed in WHO • Very high parcentage of our graduates doing residencies in U.S. hospitals many of which are affiliated with U.S. medical schools • Many of our graduates are now practicing m many states throughout the United States • Many of our students are able to transfer into U.S. medical schools from our Basic Sc1ences • We are approved in more states for clinical training and licensure than any other Caribbean School • U.S. Department of Education 
~t~~:,S~~:;!.~'.:'a~~~t ~_Loans, VA benefits and a loan program for entering 
1 
SCHOOL'OF VETERINARY MEDICINE 
• 
American Veterinary Medical School curriculum • Accredited by the government of St. Kitts • Listed In theAVMA • 3V• yearverterinary medicme program both in St. Kitts and the United States • Only foreign School of Veterinary Medicine doing clinical rotations in the United States 

• 
U.S. Department of Education Guaranteed Student Loans, VA benefits and a loan program for entenng students are available • Our graduates have ach1eved outstanding scores on the state examinations. 


NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR SPRING, FALL, WINTER SEMESTERS For further Information call (212) 279·5500 
or write to: INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION ADMISSIONS, INC. 460 WEST 34TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10001 


The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 
A contemporary adaptation of the ancient 
popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 


The Wav of the Cross 
According to the Gospel of Mark 

Adaptation and Lyrics by Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25,26 
General Admission $4 Group rates available Call (219) 239-5957 








~i~~~_()__i_ll___t__________________T_ue-sd-ay_,A_pr-il2-2,_19-86--~-age_4 
Interviewing strategy helps land job offers 
P.O. BoxQ 
Sooner than many of you youngsters think, you will embark upon a quest for employment and a stake In the harsh realities ofthe outside world. To those with respectable academic standing this will not be a problem. UnJess you come off as arrogant, an egghead or a Motley Crue fan, you will probably land several offers before Christmas. This article is not for you. 

WarnerGraf 

guest column 
I have a job and I am proud to say it's a darn good one. My GPA, however, indicates that on the eve of tests I was perfecting my outside jumper at the Rock. I interviewed over twenty times, my first fifteen letters resulting in a big, white goose egg. After semester break, though, I received five call-backs from seven interviews. 
What caused this dramatic turnaround? I simply utilized techniques which Increased my chances. These techniques display inter­est, competence and, most importantly, make you stand out in the interviewer's mind. 

I was lucky in the respect that I have an ac­counting major and by some quirk of nature accountants are in high demand. My job, however, is onJy distantly related to account­ing and the starting salary is more than ade­quate. These tips should benefit all interviewees regardless of major. There are good jobs out there and you can go for them with minimal effort since many companies will interview here. 
This advice is from experience -failures as well as successes. I am experienced in both areas. This article is my duty to those who also wallow in the academic depths of degrada­tion. I feel compelled to impart this knowledge to my fellow Rockne Memorial Warriors before I leave. 
•Acquire experience in your field: ifyou have the opportunity to secure an internship then do it. Notre Dame doesn't utilize a co-op program such as Drexel's in Philadelphia. Try working in your career area this summer. In­terviewees eat this stuffup for it demonstrates knowledge of your potential job and knowledge of yourself since you have tested your career desires and stuck with them. 
(Information on internships Is at the Place­ment Office.) 
•Study 
the company: Learn early how to use the r,brary's faclllties. Read every human in­terest story on the firm from the past ten ye<tr's issues of the Wall Street Journal. This does not require much time. Forget the finan­cial statements. Any dweeb can recite last year's sales. Pick out interesting or humorous stories regarding the company. Research supplies confidence and small-talk material. The Placement Office's research center is only a start since everyone will be reading that material and you need an edge. 

•Make 
charts of your GPA: The first question always asked is, "Why the ugly GPA?" If you have solid support displaying, say, academic progress, you will demonstrate forsight and an ability to explain. For example, my chart shows my GPA broken down between class grading formats: presentation vs. testing. I have a 2.2 in testing classes; a 3.1 in presenta­tion oriented classes. This gives me support for my contention that I do not test well. 

•Show 
enthusiasm and Interest: You must show more of this than the other guy. Every job interview should be approached with the 


attitude that you never wanted to work for anyone else. Give reasons why you chose them over their competitors even ifyou inter­view with those competitors the next day. 
•The 
interviewer: Make sure to inquire about the person judging you. For example, ask what college he attended. Do this before the inter­view and bring it up during to give the inter­view a personal tone. 

•Take 
the mock interview: Thi~ is es1-ential, professional, and free. We at Notre Dame are fortunate to have an understanding placement office. They are helpful, cordial, understand­ing and professional. They do a great job in optimizing employment opportunities. Many interviewers commented on how well they are treated and this helps you! I have had the pleasure to know three in particular (Kate Dascenzo, Mary Waggoner and Katie Wesolowski) and they know they have my deepest thanks and respect. 


Finally, make sure to read some material on interviewing. I hope all of you find the same success that I did. 
Warner Graf is a senior accounting major in the College ofBusiness. 


U.S. not attacking root of Middle East problem 
Dear Editor: 
Mary Jacoby's compelling article explains why most European countries have refused to sanction the recent U.S. bombing ofLibya. The problem with Reagan's latest resort to violence is that it strikes out at the symptoms of terrorism, rather than addressing the source. 
Reagan describes the bombing ofTripoli as 
a retaliation for terrorist atrocities Inflicted on 
Americans abroad. He supposes that crippling 
Libya's military capacity will somehow begin 
to extinguish the fires ofterrorism. 
But the Middle Eastern enemies ofAmerica are elusive and ubiquitous. Many of these guerrillas envision their struggle against the United States as nothing less than a holy war. They are therefore prepared, if not eager, to die on behalf oftheir adopted cause. Bombing Libya probably has made Khadafy even more of a hero to proponents of jihad against the United States. It has probably also redoubled the commitment of these fanatics to ridding the Middle East of the American presence. 
The alternative to military action against Libya is not passivity. A saner and more promising middle route would be to try to pressure Israel into seriously addressing the grievances of displaced Palestinians. No one 

Doonesbury 

"80'oiJOUR. MYNAMe IS tfGUMc, 
YOfJI< ZtJW31135£.4~. YOU'Lt.RNI? A ~SIJPP/..YCF-MY({1{fl?.OL­L//>K3 AGI3NT PACKEP IN I?RYICC NI3AR.MY 
F££7. 1/ 

can guarantee that peace between Israel and the Arab world is possible. But the United States would surely win more friends for itself in the Middle East by playing a more even­handed role in the seemingly perpetual struggle between Israel and its neighbors. 
As long as the United States continues to align itself wholeheartedly with Israel-as long as we afford the Israelis a Middle East -we will continue to suffer at the hands of terrorists in Europe and throughout the Mediterranean. Bombing Libyan docks and missile sites will not discourage terrorists any more than creat­ing martyrs would dissuade the fanatical fol­lowers of any other religious cause. 
Rev. Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. Brownson Hall 


Van Rensburg grateful for support of students 
Dear Editor 

On the eleventh day of my fast (April 19), I was looking for some spiritual uplift. So, I decided to attend the production in . Washington Hall, "The Way of the Cross-­According to the Gospel of Mark" (adapta­tion by Georgia and Reginald Bain). 
From the time it started, until its end an hour later, was a joy-filled experience, not because of it excellent production and well­written mood music, but more for the adap­
"IF YOU fJEI.1:TMe RUTH1.&5Sl.YUPON ARRIVAL ANI? 71/EfREAFIEI?.I<EEPME 
ON A /.OA/-5/JlT 0/ET, I 5H()()Lf? 
PR/JVII?f3 YEARSOFTRfXIEJI..e-FREE 
IXMEST!C:. '­
SERV!CC." ..,...__, 
tation of the Gospel message into this twen­tieth century. The reality of Christ being abandoned when the crunch comes was r.eminiscent for me of wise men sitting in board rooms, voting the wrong way when the issue is profit or prophetic witness/gospel values. 
At this stage of the fast (now coming into the third week), I need prayers and support. 
I
I 
Garry Trudeau 

The beauty of the message as presented by students was the lift I needed to project me into the third week. 
Congratulations to the Notre Dame Department of Communications and Theatre. 
Father Basil van Rensburg James Hall Holy Cross Brothers Center 



Quote of the day 
"Don't be afraid of opposi­tion. Remember, a kite rises against, not with the wind." 
-Hamilton Wright Mabie 
General Board 


-The~Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager . Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. . . . ........... Kevin Becker Controller . ............ . . . Alex VonderHaar
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor........ . ...... Scott Bearby Production Manager. . . Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager ..... .. James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager. Anne M.Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor. ........... Margie Kersten Photography Manager. . .. Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor. ............ Frank Lipo 
Systems Manager. . . David Thornton 
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor . . . . . . ........ Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . . . Mark We1mholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 

--------------------------~---.----------~I 
Tuesday, April 22, 1986 -page 5 
The Blue-Gold football game will be held 
.:iaturday, April 26 at 1:30 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of a current ID card at gates 15 and 16 only. General admission tickets are available to the public at gate 10 of the ACC. The cost for adults Is S3 ( S4 on game day) and Sl for youth ( $1.50 on game day) .. The Observer 
The 5-K Run for the Arts winners in the men~ division were John Walters, 15:36, Rod Goodchild, 15:55, Peter Smith, 18:53, and John Akers, 19:11. Winners in the women's division were Karen Schinke, 20:35, Theresa Myer, 21:06. and Coleen Cain, 21:09. -The Observer 


CLASSIFIEDS 
The ND Judo Club travelled to Chicago over the weekend to compete in the Chicago Black Belt Association tourna­ment. Dave Brienza turned in a perfect effort to win the .~~.:­ligtJlw~ight br~wq.bel$ di~isio~ t;hi~ ~a:til'~ae!cson t~t.tblr~iq t.h~. m~n's uuddlew1ght· novice div'tsion. •In ~om~'<: li~\· neavyweight green belt competition, Karen Russell took second place while Sara Harty finished third. -The Observer 
. Any Bengal Bouters who have not yet returned their. ticket money must do so tomorrow between 6:30p.m. and 12:30 
a.m. at the student managers' office in LaFortune. For more infor­mation call Ed Kelly at 234-7083. -The Observer 

Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 8 
losers, who were led by Tom Sluby's eight hoops. 
Although the temperature will remain low today, the quality and intensity of play should continue to rise as the final 32 teams will collide for a chance to make it the Sweet 
1~. 

Among the more interesting match ups should b!; Minohoonies 
v. 4 Fags and a Zahmbie on Stepan 1 at 6:15, and Nutmeggers v. Tofu Chaka Khan at 5:30 on Bookstore 9. 
This may be the first time in tournament history that all 16 seed­ed teams have survived to this round. 
LOST: KEY CHAIN wilh yellow 
$$FOR YOUR LOFT CALL JON AT 2047 PREGNANT? NEED HELP? 
"Grace Hall' lag at party on Colfax St. ii~;;g;y:;·c;~;;·:;E:t:L:ow..suaMiiFiiN·E·;;
NOTICES 
or on campus. Without them 1 can't FOR RENT o:ii·.-e:·N"iiii'oii'o'ilili!i:iiA;ii:v·:rc;·&e Call 234·0363. 24·hr. hotllne, 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Spm-12am 
open my room, mailbox, car, or Monday· Thursday; 5pm·2am Friday;
................................................................ PART OF PLANNING FOR RELIGIOUS counseling & free pregnancy test.
................................................................
house. Please help me by calling 283· 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
Typing lwallable EDUCATIONAL WING OF 5 YEAR OLD WOMAN'S CARE CENTER
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr.
287·4082 HIGH ENERGY SOUTHERN PARISH.
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2878389 MB'A·:·Me·A·~·Ma·A·;·Are. ~~-g~;~·~~k·~Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. 
STRONG ROOTS IN R.C.I.A., R.C.I.C., 
• • • • 0 • • • • , • • • 
ruad CAEMGEN MIRGIUS: being told grades are not everything ?
RENEW.
LOST-two notebooks and an Housii'Fofi'ii'iiNr·,~··i:·;·P~~··M·~~ If you really want to "be friends", why Well, face reallty .... they mean everyth­
TYPING CONTACT: SEARCH COMMITTEE,
Engineering Materials book from don't you try acting like one? ingll So remember, when you are
15 · Aug22. $310/mo. utll.lnc.ldeal for2. South Dining Hall on Thursday, April 287-4024 "sar" 'Chang'ln' your head against an 'Appel' and 
CALL CHRIS HOLY FAMILY CATHOLIC COM­
234-1117. MUNITY, P.O. BOX 130, CLEMMONS, 
17. Please return them to the dining wondering 'W-for not It's all worth nand 
NC27012.
hall -It will lake me hours to recopy DISTRICT NO. 1 with your ·Appel' against the wall getting
................................................................ 4···:·5···aiioiiooM··t:tse·s··Foii···Fie·t.i:r:
all the notes. (I didn't really want STUDENT SENATE ADVISORY ready swing your big 'Tavis' at anyone Who
WordprOOMSing-Typing BLOCK OF 5 HOUSES {3 LEFT) $400 $$$$ lots of hard, cold cash $$$$$ lor
anyone to see the lest I nearly failed COUNCIL comes near, 'Williamson' nall come out
272·8827 MO. CALL 256-0933 OR 234-8364. your extra gradual/on tlckel(a) leave
either...please return II so I can Make sure the Student Senate does okay In the end 1 Let's hope sol!! Sin· 
redeem myself on finals.) ................................................................ mesg. for John at 239-7278 . something for you! cerely, The MBA Jok-r 
Typing/Wordprocnalng Apply for a position on the District 277·8131 no. 1 SENATE ADVISORY COUNCIL
SSMOTH EZE j;j;;·~''iiiii';;;;;;·i~''ii;'s;;k;·;;;;;;;~i
WANTED
$SMOOTH EZES Applications are available from Stu· and hated n. Why? Typical C.thollc gina, 
................................................................ my 2 yr. old son's basketball was FOR SALE that's whyll Ken and Mary are In love and 
dent Government --2nd Floor EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL mistakenly taken from the bookstore LaFortune --or from Brian at 2561. are getting sickening. Why? Conversa­
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­
MRS. COKER. 233· 7008. game on Stepan 2 at/around 4 p.m. APPLICATfONS ARE DUE APRIL 25. tion, that's whyll Greg and women(ln
MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). FOR SALE • 78 DODGE CHALLENGER 
Sunday 4/20. II Is a Wilson Supershot general) are 'stomach turning'. Why? Juet 
<lovefi;:jhie.Nr.....J085'........1ii'.ii40"''·~ CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. Excellent Condition, Sporty (Sliver w/
b·ball. A MacGregor b-ball was left In NO GRADUATE NEEDS ONE COM· plain corny, that's whyll Mike and Ann
BEFORE 10. racing stripes) $1500 or best offer Call 
158,230/yr. -Hlrtng. Call 805-887· Its place. The MacGregor has MENCEMENT TICKET Marie. Why? In the beginning -know 11000 Ext. R·8834 for current-ralllal. SMOOTH EZE written ot II. If you DESPERATELY-BIG BUCKSp· why, that's whyll Henry and Valantlnea 
................................................................ 283·3282. Ask for Sang or Jell. 
NEED ONLY ONE TICKET TO COM· 
know anything about this mixup, CALL DREW AT 272-4540 Day. Why? Nymphomaniacs and alcohol, 
MENCEMENT WILL PAY $$$$$ CALL SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SS$
sPF.'iiiG'ii'Ai:i!'ii'~;;·~;·;·iiii·;;;;;;;i please call Jim Mills at 272-8180 (Of· that's whyll VanIa getting married 10 hla
PAUL AT 1701 AND CREDIT! Cliff notes available. PAN· 
Apr.17·30-ST. FRAHCIS &HOPPE -flee), 277.0039 (home). My son can tell H.T.H. Why? Can't get any In Indians,
DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. ANTOSTAL
behind Flltllllll ~Center, Open 10 the difference despite the fact that that's whyll Marl< Brostowakl and Jon's 
a.m. ·I p.m. llon.·Sat. the balls are of comparable quality. WANTED: Ride needed to MSU Frl· 233-2342 T·SHIRTS AND MUGS old flame in Pittsburg. Why? Mark's hard 
day the 25th, normal cost sharing ar· ................................................................ Can be picked up In the olllce tod1y 
up, that's whyll Adolfo. Why? To let us CLASSIFIED& FOR THE NEXT Lost, a gold bracelet with Egyptian rangements. Ask for David at x1076, FOR SALE·SANSUI 55 WAn STEREO from 3·5. This lathelaat day to do 101 know how Libyans probably act, that's 
PUBUSHIHO DAY WILL liE AC­charms on Salurday 19th, at Corby whyll Foreigners who could knock buz·
call anytime. RECEIVER MODEL 881, B.I.C BELT 
DRIVE TURNTABLE W/SHURE M95ED 
CEPTED UNTIL 2 P.M. DAILY. Str. II has a personal value and zards oil a dlsentary wagon. Why? To lei 
To the peraon who STOLE THE BOOK

SMC girl wants OC roommate for CARTRIDGE, O'SULLIVAN FULL RACK 
means a lot to mel If found please us know how refreshing a dirty bathroom 
FROM THE SMC ENGLISH DEPTSYSTEM W/ RECORD STORAGE, AND 

THE CELLAR contact Amlra at 288·5420, or Nancy summer and/or fall. She's friendly smells, that's whyll AdOlfo. Why?
OFFICE I don't know why you leH that you 4 AL TEC LANSING SPEAKERS.

(N.D.'I only student ..cord etora) at 291-8361. GENEROUS REWARD and outgoing. Call Suzette at 233-Khadafy's clone, that's whyll MBA school
had to take that blue history book, but H Ia now accepllnp emp/o~ appl/catlonal 5396 or leave message at 272-4837. and Its turmoil, gripes and agony. Why? 
SOUNDS GREAT. CALL MIKE-1843 OR 
was very Important to a project that was Appl/callona are available ar The Caller Thanks. To remind us that reallly will be muchMARK AT 262·2023 FOR MORE INFO 
LOST: SILVER RING (ADJUSTABLE), underway, and I was hoping you would 
(In rile baaemenr of LaFottune), end are easier, that's why II
TWO HEARTS DESIGN. REWARD. relurn H. It will take months to make up for 
due by Wadneaday, Aprl/23. 1need graduation tlx. Wlfl pay GOOD NEED WHEELS FOR THE SUMMER? SSSSSSSS$$$S$$$S$SS$$$$S$SSSS$$$
CALL CAROLYN, 283-4619. all the worl< that those little lines In the 
MONEY. Please call Pat at 289·7340 1968 AMC AmbassadOr, automatic. VS. 
bool< represented. Please bring nbacklll ................................................................
<loveii'Nhie;:jf"'i1o'Mes···~~;;;···s;····iu Losr:ooLo. si:'11<o ·auAFiii.wlirci-i after 5:30p.m. good transportation. $800 or best offer. English aide, SMC AN TOSTAL (HANGOVER?) 5K RUN
repair). Aloo dellnquenllax property. Call Call 287-5235 after 5 p.m. or anytime on
(WITH SCRATCHED CRYS­Corne and get that blood nowlng and
805-887·11000 ext. GH·8834 lor lnforma· SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, weekends. ................................................................
TAL).UNFORTUNATELY WAS LOST sweat out the festlvlllea of the night
lion. If there's a smile on my lace, It's only
QUITE SOMETIME AGO.(I HOPE YOU Adams High School. One·half mile before... join In and get pumped for the
there trying to fool rile public.

HAVEN'T GROWN TOO AnACHED TO from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two Saturday events. Pour out the energy for 
IT).POSSIBLY LOST AT ACC SWIM practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap· FOR SALE · 2-bed loft, finished & ................................................................ 
SK. Prizes lor the flrst 5 men and women 
POOLREWARD(AND NO OUES· prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288· stained, The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity 
finishers and randomly selected sur· 
TIONS). PLEASE CALL 3289,ASK FOR 4655. black vlnyll.....-t. and 2 dresMrl. Ball with honorary emcee Lou Holtz 

LOST/FOUND I 

vlvors. Register at Stepan after 8:30AM .. 
BRIAN IF FOUND. Call Sheila at 272·1011. May 2, 8 p.m.· 1 a.m. at the ACC 
. The pounding (of the pavement) begins In need of 2 commencement tiCkets. Proceeds go to World Hunger 
at 9:30AM. JOIN IN
FouN·o:cANoN.......c!:MefiA......c!:se PLEASE. HAVE A HEARTI MY HOPES Please help out If you can. Will pay! Allwelcomel 
................................................................ 
................................................................

OF A BOOKSTORE CHAMPIONSHIP Call Rick 232~97. Helpl Need one commencement ticket. Tony Loves Maria May 1,2,3 & May JUNIORS JUNIORSAF35M al lhe SENIOR FORMAL. CALL 
COULD BE GOING RIGHT DOWN THE DRAIN-BUT YOU CAN HELPIII IF YOU 
JOHN at 287 ·8518. 
Will pay $1 Call Julie 2781 15,16,17 "LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM"HAPPENED TO FIND A BASKETBALL HELP WANTED 
LOST: BLUE WOOL JACKET FROM ruad CAEMGEN MIRGIUS: If you really PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND
AT THE ROCK ON WEDNESDAY Mottol Desk Clerk, lmmedlllle Opening,
PARTY AT 8t4 CORBY SATURDAY wantto 'be lrlends'. why dOn't you try acting PLACEMENT SERVICES.
NIGHT PLEASE CALL JULIE AT 4001 Evllfllngs, Full/Part-time AVIII.
NIGHT. JUST GOT IT FOR CHRISTMAS like one? 'sar' 7:00P.M. TONIGHT.118 NIEUWLAND
AND MAKE MY LIFE WORTH LIVING through Summer.C1II 233·11114 71.m.­
AND LIKE IT A LOT. IF YOU TOOK IT SCIENCE HALL.

lp.m. PERSONALS
AGAIN

PLEASE CALL ME AND I WON'T BE ................................................................ 
NO GRADUATE NEEDS ONE COM· ALL MAJORS INVITED. MADI REWARn C':AII MARK 1785. 
LOST: MENS'S GOLD NO RING. LOST MENCEMENT TICKET­ON 4/10. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN I need graduation tlx. Will pay GOOD DESPERATELY-BIG BUCKS$$ 
FOUND cAMERA ·A:r..·sei.iiofi"B'Afl OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR.
FLANNER AND SOUTH DINING HALL. MONEY. PLEASE CALL Pat at 289· CALL DREW AT 272-4540 
BEFORE SPRING BREAK. CALL TOM CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 IF FOUND, CALL STEVE AT 289-5189. 7340 after 5:30p.m. 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.
AT 272·2<4841. 

see CLASSIFIEDS page 7 
Summer Fall Spring 

WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD ~-:rlR 
Full Acllc:lemlc Years In 
• 
Oxford University 

• 
L.S.E. 


• St. Andrewa, ~nd 
U.S. cntdlta will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded In VIrginia by James Madison In 1778. Graduate work Isan option. The Directorof Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (In BrttaJn) Is the At Hon. The Lord Belotf, D.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the Brltleh Academy, Profeeaor Ernerttua ofGovernment and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admlsllonl DlrectorCQEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 81 St., NY,NY, 10024. 
(212·724-0804n24-0138). (EO/M) 

-~-----~ -----....--~-------­
The Observer Tuesday, April22, 1986-page 6 

Flat opening game deflates Rugby Club at Midwest Cup 

meet in Indianapolis, the Women's Track McTigue also came up short, this time by less It can nowbe said that the basketball team than half a boat length. 
was not the only team from Notre Dame to 
Club ran in the Eastern Michigan Invita­Pete tional. Jeanne Luther registered a strong One of the brighter spots for the team was
come out flat in the first round of a national toss of 107-1 in the javelin, and Julia Merkel the progress of the men's varsity
tournament. 

Heavyweight-eight boat of Marv Hamilton, John Ralph, Lee Walsh, Marc Gwadz, Rich
Last weekend the Rugby Club came up Gegen continued her excellent running by winning 
flat against Kent State in the first round of her heat in the 800-meter run with a time of the Midwest Cup Tournament, losing 9-0. Club Corner 2:22. Merkel also led the mile relay team to Lark, Joe Nowak, Paul Brewer, Steve Blaha, a clocking of 4:51. Kathleen Lehman, mean­and coxswain Paul Aiello. This team's times 
And while the Irish eventually did finish third in the tournament, they missed a try and Young added three penalty kicks as while, continued to trim her time in the 1500-• 
were a minute faster than its lightweight meter run with a time of 5: 14. counterparts, and the action in the boat waschance at earning a berth to Rugby's final the Irish drove to a 13-0 victory. 
noticably smoother than at last week's regat­
four. In addition to Young's usual strong per­"We weren't too concerned with this "It was our worst game in a long time," formance, other top performers for the club meet," said Head Coach Dan Ryan. "We ta. said team captain Mark Weingardner. included serum Andea Shea, inside center were looking forward to the state meeting "Out performance has improved each week," 
said Lark. "We hope to reach our peak next"Things didn't click. We are a good team, Terry Sigler, and Brian Shell, who came off this weekend." 
week in Madison." 
but we lost, and there isn't an explanation the bench to play well. The Indiana Little State Meet will take The team will spend its final week on the
for it." Next week the Irish will get a taste of what place this Saturday .. 
St. Joe's River in preparation for the upcom­The team also was hurt in that game by the could have been as the club meets Bowling ing Midwest Sprints in Madison. 
absences of Jamie Cantorna, Sean Manion, Green, the winner of the Midwest Cup Tour­This spring the Rowing Club has been and Paul Briedenstine, because of MCAT's. nament. directing its practice time towards the The Sailing Club took fourth out of ll
But Notre Dame recovered from the open­Midwest sprints, which are coming up this teams at Ohio State this past weekend. Skip­
ing disaster by playing solid rugby through weekend. As a result, regattas such as the per Ted Ganley, using the skills he had learn­
the next three games. The Women's Soccer Club made it to the one this past weekend in Ann Arbor have not ed the past weekend at a sailing clinic, andAgainst Miami (Ohio), the Irish shuLout semifinal round of its spring soccer tourna­been the best showcases for the team's Priscilla Karle won the 'B' division for Notrethe Redshins 9-0. Fly-half Bill Young scored ment over the weekend. In the first round talents. 
Dame.

all the points on a try, a conversion, and a the team defeated Wheaton, 1-0. Kate Tit­Racing against one of the better varsity The team will close its season this weekend 
penalty kick. terton scored the goal on an assist from teams in the Midwest, the Irish had several with the women competing at OhioThe next game against Ohio University Susan Haling. Kathleen Mara had the exciting races with the Wolverines. But Wesleyan and the men traveling to Toledo,
was played in very sloppy conditions, shutout for Notre Dame. much like last week, second-place finishes Ohio.
resulting in poor play on both sides. Once In the semifinals the Irish lost to eventual were more bountiful than firsts. again Young did all the scoring for Notre champion Marquette, 1-0. Notre Dame In the men's Novice Lightweight-eight Dame, leading the team to a 6-4 victory with dominated play in the second half, trying to race, the Irish boat of Ed Kromer, Stephan his two penalty kicks. avenge last semester's 6-2 loss to the War­Foles, Tim Noakes, Kevin O'Connell, Dan Finally, the Women's Softball Club swept 
The Irish played their best game against riors, but they could not put the ball in the Weber, coxswain Terry Kiblestis, finished a doubleheader last Thursday from Bethel. the University of Tennessee. Francis net. one boat length behind the Wolverines. The In the first game Barb Mooney pitched a Camillo set the tone for the game by deliver­women's novice-four boat of Colleen two-hitter as the Irish rolled to a 7-0 victory . 
•
ing a crushing blow to a Volunteer on the McGillis, Pat Charlebois, Kelly Harris, The nightcap was closer, though, as Notre game's first play. Tim Brannigan scored to As a warm up for next week's state track Elizabeth Heskitt, and coxswain Kathleen Dame took it by a 4-3 final. 
ND tennis team smoked in St. Louis meet; 
Thanks toyou... ' 
itworks... for ALLOF US \,

prepares to battle Bowling Green today 
By PETE SKIKO Then the head-to-head competition the second doubles team of Reiter Sports Writer between the two top seeded teams and Carr. In a grueling three set affair, the
It was close but no cigar for the began. 
It has finally arrived ....
Irish duo was outlasted 6-3, 6-7, 7-6 
Notre Dame tennis team this At number one singles, Dan weekend in a seven-team weekend Walsh, despite what Irish Head -the final set culminating in a tan-11==========================1 
meet in St. Louis. The Irish came Coach Tom Fallon described as his talizing 8-6 tiebreaker -and Oral 
up two points short of Oral Roberts best match of the year so far, bow­Roberts walked away with the team University, falling 68-66 in the ed to the number one player from competition. Coach Fallon was not 



The 1986 Dome 
overall competition. Oral Roberts by a score of 7-6, 6-4 .. frustrated with his team's perfor-The seven-team field was com­Freshman Tim Carr and Tony mance, however. 
•=========================• 
prised of squads from Butler, Cahill dropped tough matches at "For the amount of young players Xavier, St. Louis, Detroit, third and fourth singles, but we have, we represented ourselves 
Pick up your yearbook
Evansville, Oral Roberts and Notre freshman Dave Reiter (:fifth really well. Usually, the team with Dame. Two teams, Oral Roberts singles) and sophomore Paul Daggs the best depth and experience wins 
outside Stepan Center 
and the Irish, had dominated play (sixth singles) each captured this tournament each year, and we heading into the final round. The straight set wins for the Irish. gave everyone quite a scare this Seni"OrS • Mon. So h 
Irish placed finalists in eight of the In doubles matches, top Irish en­time." p mores-Wed. nine entries in the last round, as did try Daggs and Walsh lost in the Bowling Green invades the J · y
Courtney Tennis Courts today at 3 umors -ues. Freshmen -Thurs. 
Oral Roberts. semifinals to Evansville, who in turn were defeated by Oral Roberts p.m. for a dual meet with the Irish. 
Notre Dame's Brian Kalbas defeated an Evansville finalist at 

in the finals. Cahill and senior Joe NotreDamethentravelstoDePaui Now iS the time to get itl number-two singles, and Oral Nelligan took the number-three on Thursday, Michigan State on Roberts' first doubles team beat singles title with a convincing Saturday and Kalamazoo on Sun-.......Bring your Sfudenf 1.0. ----· Evansville's number-one squad. straight set win, leaving matters to day. 

118 runners participate in '86 Spring Run 
Special to The Observer 
The 1986 Irish Spring Run was held on Saturday with a field of 69 runners in the three-mile event and 49 competitors tackling the six-mile race. 
Greg Plirer captured the men's three-mile race, posting a time of 
17:04. Finishing second was Bill Clarke with a time of 17:34, and Jim Rataczak took third as he crossed the line in 17:34. 
The women's division of the event saw an undergraduate, sophomore Maureen Huffer, grab first place with a time of 22:42. Susie An­tonini took second in 24:14. 
In the six-mile event, graduate stu­dent Robedrt Cessar took the men's title with a winning time of 32:54. Chris Balla was the top undergraduate in the event as he finished third in 37:10. 
Junior Coleen Donnely captured the women's division of the race with a winning time of 42:41 while Lisette Bauersachs took second in 44:27. 
8ROK€N .. 

Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Dart 5 Disloyal 

10 Rope 14 Vehicle 15 Winged 16 Director 
Kazan 17 In a thought­
less manner 20 College cheer 21 Aquatic 
animal 22 Repasts 23 Donkey: Fr. 24 Former Mideast 
alliance 25 Scouting 33 Rises to 
heights 34 Piscivorous 
birds 35 Cal. fort 36 Before: pref. 37 Highlanders 38 Veridical 39 Small fish 40 Fr. river 41 More brave 42 Chatty 45 Actor Ron 46 Title of 
address 47 Ladd Western 50 Public 
storehouse 53 Indian pillar 56 Existing in 
the same 

period 59 Agave 60 Fuel ship 61 Uttar Pradesh 
city 62 Repair 63 Brilliance 64 Stadium sound 
DOWN 1 Weather word 2 Moon goddess 3 Hankering 4 Also 5 Attach 
ClfliZIJP 
8/Kiflf~ 7 
I 
1986 Tnbune Medta Services. Inc. All Rtghts Reserved 
9 Always to 
poets 10 Et­11 Olive genus 12 Rivulet 13 "-of Our 
Lives" 18 Forbidden 
things 19 Accumulate 23 "God's 
Little-" 24 Employs 25 Musical 
composition 26 Eroded 27 Comes close to 28 Sports hall 29 Bay or cove 



RIDERS NEEDED TO DAYTON THIS WEEKEND CALL DUDLEY AT 272· 
2064 

TO THE SHORT BLONDE KID WITH THE MUSTACHE THANKS YOU ARE TO GOOD TO BE TRUE 
THIRSTY THURSDAY ATSMCI 
THIRSTY THURSDAY ATSMCI 
THIRSTY THURSDAY ATSMCI 
COMPLETE MADNESS IS COM· lNGIII 
REGINA SYR HOTEL PARTY: Mary Sue and John, nice sound effects (moens and panting until 5:30?) For a llrat date Alb\, you sur spent a lot of time In the bathroom. Not evertylng goes down; too bad about the card· board underwear syndrome John, maybe next time. Sorry guys, bul I'm clean. 1 was lhe only one snoring. -Jim· 
MATTHEW C. JOHNSON Good Luck on finals/ Congratula· lions on graduation I Remember so­meone at UCSB loves you! From: Your California Sweetheart 
PREGNANT? CONSIDER ADOPTION. LOVING PROFESSIONAL CATHOLIC COUPLE CAN PROVIDE A BRIGHT FUTURE FOR YOUR CHILD. CALL COLLECT (217) 367-3379 alter 7:00 P.M. 

Classifieds 
continuedfrom page 5 
The DAVE FLANAGAN FOR UMOC Wishing Well Is coming soon. Vote DavelorUMOC. 
SANDRA/ELAINE YOU WERE WONDERFUL SATURDAY NIGHT, BUT WHERE WER YOU WHEN THE LIGHTS WENT OUT?I I LOVED THE PART ABOUT THE CHOIR LOFT. WELL I'LL GET IN TOUCH SOON. CONGRATULATIONS ON A GREAT PERFORMANCE AND DONT FORGET YOU OWE ME TWO ICECREAMSIIIII 
LOVE DREW 
"PEARL" .. THANK YOU FOR THE ROSE AND THE ESCORT SERVICE. YOU'RE MY FAVORITE REDHEAD/ .. .LOVE, ANG·DOG. P.S. THANKS "GWEEB" & "DOUG"; you were great. 
Guys, I got home from the dance okay, and __ and I wenl out
Monday's Solution 
(probably to his house). See ya In the morning!" NICE! 
YO NIGS, YO PLAIT, YO AMES -You asked lor II you got II. Premed God· desses reign! Hey, walt a minute. Do 1 ameli Tequila on your breath? 
LAURENE POWERS FOR U.M.O.C. 
111!11111 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RICK CAN WE GET YOU AUTOGRAPH SATURDAY LOVE, MR. MIKE I DR. DOUG 
KEVIN CRONIN FOR BAND PRESI· DENT 
Fran.() & Lolly, Boom & Andrea, Tom & Moira, and lasl (but definitely nol least) Kath ­Did you hear about Fran's cousin lhe push-up champ? We make a great eight lor a skate date. Even though Boom went boom, and Lolly slole a carafe while Kalh made dog noises, and some of us weren't "cultured" enough lor fondue, I still had a blast. Putt putt next time? Party pic prolls ready on Wednesday. Love the Pic· lure Man 
rti·E ·aoi:is ·~;e· 'b~dk,·,·;.i,~y· ~1i1. ~ 
performing at the Alumnl-5enlor Club TONIGHT al 7 p.m. FREE Alumni· Senior Club mugs will be available. 

30 Bellini opera 41 Bridge expert 50 Saga 
• and enjoy Chris' homemade ice cream. Your purchase • 
31 Beastly 43 Gave release 51 Ring 
• will be recorded by dorm and tallied daily. The dorm that •
32 Ger. river to 52 Region 33 Levantine 44 Lend 53 Word: pref. 
• eats the most ice cream will receive a check for 10" of • ketch 47 Fraudulent 54 Ring of light 
• the TOTAL PROFIT from the contest. • 
·~······························ 
: The Second Annual : • Chris's Ice Cream Eating Contest • 
: STARTS TOMORROW! : 
• RULES: • 
• Come into Chris's anytime between APRIL23 -MAY 4 • 

6 Touched ground 37 Indiana city deal 55 Despot 
•
7 Put on cargo 38 Browns 48 Cavity 57 Stooge name 8 Mob or lob 40 Rumpus 49 Shortly 58 Auricle 





LITTLE 

Activities Board Movies and Publicity Commission 
It pays! 



S~orts 

·lbe Obsmler /Paul Paboresky 
Former Notre Dame basketball player Jim Dolan (left) and cur­rent Irish football player Mike Kovaleski (right) trap former Irish and Dallas Mavericks forward Tom Sluby in a game yesterday behind the bookstore. Sluby's eight buckets were not enough for his Goldprick and The Wire Tappers team as they bowed to Lee's BBQ, 21-12. Details ofall the action can be found at right. 
ND signs recruit 
Special to Tbe Observer 

Jamere Jackson, a 6-2 guard from Peoria Manual H.S. in Peoria, Ill., signed a national letter of intent to attend Notre Dame yesterday. 
Jackson averaged 16 points, six rebounds and three assists last year at the shooting guard position. Peoria Manual finished with a 32-2 record, including a loss in the Illinois AA semifinals. In addi­tion, Jackson has a 3.3 grade point average, a fact that impressed Irish head coach Digger Phelps as much as Jackson's basketball skills. 
"Adding Jamere will give us some needed strength in our backcourt,'' commented Phelps. "We watched Jamere in the Il­linois state tournament and felt he really finished the year strong­ly. He's an outstanding student who ranked 13th in his class -he impressed us both as a student and as an athlete. We'll need him as a second guard." 
Jackson, who was named all-state by the Associated Press, The Champaign News-Gazette and the Illinois Baketball Coaches Association, will join Keith Robinson (30.3 points, 20 rebounds), Scott Paddock" (17.5, 14.4), Tony Jackson (15.9, 14.9) and Joe Fredrick (23.8, 7 .5) in next fall's freshman class of recruits. 
Women's Bookstore field advances into third round 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
Today at 4 p.m .• the third round ,·of Women's Bookstore Basketball opens on Lyons and Stepan courts. 
Last year's runner-up, the second-seeded Revenge of the Quixotic Quint, takes on 4 Shots and a Chaser at the Lyons site. The Quint defeated the respectable Da­quiri Dolls and Popcorn and the Jakes to advance to the third round. The 4 Shots and a Chaser, on the other hand, dominated a not-so-serious Domerettes team and earned a forfeit victory over Hard Liquors. 
On the other Lyons court, Challenger & Four Other Balls of Fire will go against Chic Superhoops. Challenger, paced by Beth Noland's 13 and Karen Phelps' 10 points over the weekend had little difficulty with USA for Canada and Take Us to Dinner, You'll Get Your Just Desers, outscoring its competition by a combined score of 36-11. 

At the Stepan courts, The Almosts, the heart of Walsh's in­terhall team with Patty and Sue Mileski, play P.W.'s Pee Wees. The Pacers, hot off an upset vic­tory over the Fighting Chicken Pat­ties, play The Heels. 
We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School, who destroyed 5-3 And Under and lost an opportunity to play the first-seeded team when Shooting Back forfeited, will take on the Slammers. 
In probably one of the better, most balanced, match-ups of the tournament thus far, Voces Dames play Negligence. And Violent Fem­mes II, who toyed with the Flam­ingos Sunday, will go against Clut­ching at Straws. 
Double Decker Oreo Cookie, one of the remaining favorites, will play against Hearnism's Better Half. Oreo Cookie shut out We Don't Know What to Call Ourselves Sunday and nearly turn­ed the trick in the first round on Friday. 
Tuesday, April 22, 1986 -page 8 
Bookstore XV field trimmed to 32 as original sixteen seeds advance 
By SCOTT INGLIS 
Sports Writer 
Bookstore Basketball XV con­tinued yesterday with 64 teams braving near-freezing temperatures, near-frozen basket­balls, and man's favorite animal, the referee. Despite these adverse conditions, however, all 16 of the seeded teams :irl ttle knifhaJrient snr~ved the round, with only ~two of these teams experiencing much difficulty. 
The two seeds experiencing the most trouble yesterday were Mr. Coffee and the Non-Dairy Creamers and Keenan Inmates II. Mr. Coffee was led by Milt Jackson and Erik Janoasky, whose five and seven baskets respectively helped their team overcome Hill's Billies performance, 21-19. Ralph Ferrara shot a torrid 9-15 for the losers. 
In the other close scrape, the In­mates needed a final shot by Jim Reed, who it was learned later had broken his foot in the game, to defeat Josephus and the Ethiopian Shim-Sham, 23-21. 
In a game that best reflected the 
Losing skid reaches seven games as Irish drop four games to Detroit 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Frustration is the key word for the Notre Dame baseball team right now. Head Coach Larry Gallo and his forces dropped four straight to visiting Detroit, which runs their losing streak to seven straight losses. 
Although Gallo has refrained from using injuries as an excuse all season, he finally admits that in­juries have taken their toll on the Irish. 
"We don't have Tommy Shields right now and we've got a handful of guys who have played hurt all season,'' Gallo said. "Now we lose (Steve) Skupien (hand injury) today and sooner or later you're going to get hurt by all those injuries. 
"We haven't been able to field 
our number-one lineup once this 
season.'' 
The series started on a bad note 
with Detroit scoring two runs in the 
first inning. Things never brighten­
ed as Detroit went on to win, 8-6. 
The Titans collected 11 hits in 
beginning the four-game sweep. 
Rich V anthournout and Chris 
The Fisher 

Notre Dame's Rich Vanthournout (8) and Tim dropped a pair of twinbills to the Titans over the 
Huston (42) await Chris Flynn's arrival at home weekend. Rick Rietbrock has all the details in his after Flynn knocked a home run in the first game story above. ofyesterday's doubleheader with Detroit. The Irish 
spirit of Bookstore basketball on this blustery April evening, 6 Guys That CiJn't Add apparently really could not, as they needed 30 baskets in defeating Rastaman Vibration, 30-28. Playing well into the dark on Bookstore 10, 6 Guys finally overcame Rastaman on the 

Bookstore Basketball 
XV 
strength of 11 Rob Kossler hoops. 
One of last year's fans' favorites, Tofu Chaka Khan, defeated Los Milandros 21-14 to continue on its road to a second straight year in the Sweet 16. Before they get there, however, Tofu will have to over­come a strong Nutmeggers team in the next round. Nutmeggers defeated Now We Go To School 21-17 to set up the confrontation with Tofu, taking place on Bookstore 9 at 5:30 today. 
In the human-interest story department, the Nads surmounted 
Flynn had two RBls apiece, while 
Pat Pesavento got three hits to help 
the Irish cause. Kevin Chenail was 
the starter, and Brad Cross took 
the loss in relief. 
The second game was a slugfest 
in which the Irish came back, but 
still came up short, 13-10. With the 
score 10-3 entering the seventh, the 
Irish came up with four runs, 
highlighted by a Ken Soos triple 
and also aided by two Titan errors. 
Soos then homered in the eighth, a three run shot, to tie the game, and it appeared the teams were headed into extra innings. But Lowery answered in the Detroit half of the tenth with a three run home run off Irish losing pitcher Tommy Howard to take the doubleheader sweep. Soos finished the game with three extra-base hits and six RBI. 
Sunday's doubleheader was changed to avoid Sunday's rain, only to run into yesterday's bitter cold. No matter what the weather was like, however, the results re­mained the same. 
In the series' third game, Bryan Tucker held Detroit's run barrage in check, but the Irish were still Catherine the Great meets Mr. Ed -The Final Encounter, 24-22, setting up a meeting between two brothers's teams. Roberto Cano, of the Nads, will be playing against his brother, Manuel, of the aforemen­tioned Mr. Coffee, at 6:15 on Stepan 4. 
On Stepan 6, meanwhile, last year's champion, Fun Bunch Finale, advanced again by clipping Red Wings by a score of 21-13. The Bunch duo of Greg Dingens and Rick DiBernardo combined for 13 baskets and 23 rebounds between them in a game that would see many shots miss the mark before 
1he powe~~ul ~ ~nsidf gaiJl~ o~ the 
Bttnch' proved too much .fof.! Red Wings. 
In another game featuring varsi­ty athletes both former and pre­sent, Lee's BBQ had most of the firepower as it unplugged Goldprick and the Wiretappers, 21­
12. Lee's Trio of Steve Beuerlein, Jim Dolan, and Mike Kovaleski combined for 16 of the winners baskets, proving too much for the 
see BOOKSTORE, page S 
denied victory. The lanky lefty and 
reliever Erik Madsen combined to 
hold the Titans to three runs, but 
that was just enough to beat the 
Irish 3-2. 
Once again, the Irish staged a 
comeback that came up short. 
Trailing 3-0, they scored twice on a 
Scott Rogers single, Tim Hutson 
double, and an error on Detroit's 
third baseban, Phil Biggs, that 
allowed Skupien to reach. Skupien 
was stranded on third, however, 
and the Irish could not push 
another run across. 
In yesterday's series conclusion, Detroit once again jumped out in front with two runs in the first and went on to take a 10-5 win. The Irish came back to tie with single runs in the first and second innings, but Detroit assumed command for good with a run in the third and three in the fifth. 
The Irish record drops to 15-20, including 1-7 in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. They are on the road facing Lewis University today, and return to Jake Kline Field tomorrow to battle Bowling Green. 










