Speaker Series -inside 

VOL. XX NO. Ill THURSDAY, MARCH 13,1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Social psychologist says feminism isn't only a woman's issue 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
Social psychologist Sister Joan Chittister told a packed auditorium last night that "women across the world were bought, sold, enslaved, made poor, raped and beaten by rule of thumb while we sat here tonight." 
Citing figures aimed to show the lack of women in the upper ranks of the educational system, business world, government and church, Chittister called for change in these institutions. 
She said female orientation is a "cop-out" goal rarely pursued in conjunction with obtaining higher church positions for women. 
"Feminism is not a woman's issue; all of us are less human because this society and this church are sexist," she said. 
The issues of poverty and hunger are connected to feminism because two-thirds of the hungry and three­fourths of the poor are women, ac­cording to Chittister. 
She also said sexism, racism and militarism " ... are of a piece with sexism as the cornerstone." 
Chittister said the dominance of men who "own, administer, shape and control" society has led to an 
'Hoopster Hysteria' to benefit SB charity 
By REGI RICHTER 
News Stoff 
Using the Notre Dame in­signia, a thesaurus and a little ingenuity, four Notre Dame business students have organiz­ed "Hoop Hysteria," a small T­shirt selling venture which now has developed into a major fun­draiser for South Bend's Logan Center. 
Stanford Hall residents John Sullivan, Tom McHugh, Mike O'Grady and Dan Tanczos said they tossed around different ideas before opting to enter the T -shirt salesmarket. All ideas, however, were based on the theory that "anything with the Notre Dame insignia can sell," the students said. 
Sales began at the start of the basketball season, after obtain­ing the help of a designer, Lenny Hanlock, and a thesaurus to "find a catchy phrase," Sullivan said. 
And as the Irish basketball record rose, so did sales of the T -shirts, which read "Destina­tion Dallas" on the back. 
Realizing their endeavor could be bigger than originally 
See HOOPS, page 5 
interpretation of the world which assumes male superiority. 
She said this view includes and 
"untenable" Christian theology not 
based on the Biblical teachings of 
Jesus. 
Jesus was a feminist, and that's 
the best-kept ecclesiastical secret of 
all time," said Chittister. 
Jesus ignored sexist Jewish tradi­tions through His acts, she said. One example Chittister cited from the Gospel was His public teaching and speaking to women. She said that no good Jew of the time would have done the same. 
Chittister also said that Biblical studies have revealed "hanky­panky" present in the English translation of the Bible which ad­vance the notion of male superiori­ty. 
"Plato said that women were created from the wicked men as punishment for being irrational," she said. 
Chittister said that Thomas Aquinas regarded women as "car­nal" while he thought " ... redemp­tion required reason resisting car­nality." 
The modern marrigae ceremony reflects this view, she said. "It's man and wife, not man and woman as in person instead of property." 

Irish tunes 
Musical duo Mike James, on the violin at left, Center for Social Concerns coffeehouse. The event and John Kennedy, guitar, entertained listeners was sponsored by the Overseas Development Net­with traditional Irish folk songs last night at the work. 


Stations won't run messages of Gays/Lesbians 
By BOB MUSSELMAN with the administraiton more, and Senior Stoff Reporter we need to develop a policy." Pesta and McDaniel succeeded 
An informational public service former station managers Eileen announcement from the Gays and Ridley and Reginald Daniel Mon­Lesbians at Notre Dame and Saint day. Ridley and Daniel resigned Mary's will not run on WVFI-AM Feb. 28, the day their terms ex­and WSND-FM, according to the pired, because the administration new station managers of the ordered the stations to stop airing student-run radio stations. the announcement from the 
WSND-FM station manager homosexual group. Jesse Pesta said from now on his During the time between the station will run only "fine arts" resignations and March 10, Sandy public service announcements, in­Rossow, at the time WSND-FM's stead of accepting announcements program director, was interim sta­from most non-profit organiza­tion manager of WSND-FM. John tions. Rogers, program supervisor at 
Sheila McDaniel, station WVFI-AM, temporarily headed manager at WVFI-AM, said her that station. station will not air the announce­Rossow, however, said she was ment "because we need to speak fired Sunday morning by Father Francis Cafarelli, assistant vice president for student services, after she continued playing the con­troversial announcement. Adele Lanan, an assistant director of stu­dent activities, ran WSND-FM Sunday until Pesta's term began. 
"It's a matter of principle," Rossow said. ''They're not harming anyone, and they have the right to be heard on their student station." 
Rossow said she had an idea the firing was coming after a meeting with Cafarelli Friday. "They just couldn't allow someone who defied them to remain in office," she said. 
During the meeting, she said, Cafarelli gave no logical reasons for why the announcement should be discontinued. 
Cafarelli said last week that the University administrators banned the group's announcements because ''there has to be some concern for the interests of the institution relative to what goes out as part of our programming." Cafarelli could not be reached for comment yester­day. 
"I think the announcement should stay on the air. It was wrong for the administration to force it to be removed," Pesta said. 
But in order to avoid further con­frontation on the matter, Pesta siad he suggested the compromise fine arts guidelines. He said the new rule doesn't make the announce­ment's removal an arbitrary action, and will allow him to remain with 
See RADIO, page 5 


NASA ends dispute over astronauts' remains 
Associated Press ring, said Lieutenant Commander 
Deborah Burnette. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ·A county The wreckage, found 32 miles off­medical examiner said yesterday that shore in 600 feet of water by the NASA had agreed to let his staff ob­manned submersible Sea-Link 2, serve autopsies of Challenger's "could well be from the right SRB," astronauts, ending the threat oflegal she said. action in a dispute over jurisdiction The salvage ship Preserver, ofthe bodies. meanwhile, dropped divers over­
The agreement came as searchers board in another pact of the search located a piece of solid rocket area in an effort to retrieve more booster that a Navy spokeswoman astronaut remains and debris from said could be from the segmentofthe the crew cabin. The cabin was right booster believed responsible located Friday 1 00 feet beneath the for the shuttle explosion. surface, 18 miles northeast of the 
The 4-foot-by-5-foot piece of launchpad. debris from the rear part ofa rocket, Sources had said the medical ex· weighing 400 to 500 pounds, is aminer's office might seek a court or· believed to contain propellant and der unless the National AeronautiCs part of the external tank attachment and Space Administration and Air Force turned over the remains in ac· cordance with state law, which re­quires the local medical examiner to conduct an autopsy on any person who is slain or dies by accident. 
The statutes apply even if deaths occur on federal property, or, as in the case of the Challenger accident, they occur away from any jurisdic· tion but ace brought into one. 
Some remains of the astronauts killed when Challenger exploded 73 seconds after launch on}an. 28 were brought ashore secretly Saturday night and were taken to nearby Patrick Air Force Base fur examina­tion by forensic experts, sources said. 
Dr.I.audie McHenry, chief medical examiner fur Brevard County, said Wednesday: "since the discovery of the Challenger capsule with its human remains, there ha..o; been es· sentially a blackout of communica· tions between NASA, the Air Force and this office. Two days ago, a con· ference between representatives of Patrick Air Force Base Hospital, the 
Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and the Brevard County medical ex· aminer gave lip service to a coor­dinated, multiagency investigation, with favorable comments by all present. 
"As of 10 a.m. today, (yesterday) March 12, telephone communica­tion from NASA indicates that repre· sentatives of the Brevard County medical examiner may be present at the investigations to be performed." 
~-------­

The Obserwr Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 2 

In Brief 
FBI interviews met with protest from students at the University of Wisonsin law school. The students said the FBI discriminates against gays. Law school policy prohibits inter­viewers who discriminate on the basis of race or sexual preference from using the school's facilities. -The Observer 
James Falvey has accepted the position of executive vice president of operations for the Notre Dame Credit Union, accor­ding to Credit Union President Ruth Kelly. Falvey, a 1963 Notre Dame graduate, previously worked at the Inter-City Bank in Ben­ton Harbor, Mich. He began work at the credit union on Feb. 24. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The department of English announces its annual writing contests for undergraduates and graduate students. Cash awards and medals will be offered in six categories. All categories are open to undergraduates, and the American Academy of Poets Prize is open to graduate students as well. All entries must be typed and identified only by the author's name and address; and submit­ted in duplicate to room 309 O'Shaughnessy Hall by 4 p.m., April 
3. Further information is available from the English department. -The Observer 
The Friday Forum at the Center for Social Concerns concludes its series today with a talk by Frank Castellino, dean of the College of Science, speaking on the series' theme, "The College Curriculum and the Special Mission of Notre Dame." The talk is open to faculty and staff from 12:15 -1 p.m. -The Observer 
The American Catholic Studies Seminar 
will be held today at 4 in the Memorial Library lounge. Professor William Dinges of the Catholic University of America will speak on the topic: "In Defense of Truth and Tradition: Catholic Tradi­tionalism in America, 1964-74." The seminar is sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame department of music announces Tim Kopfin a graduate violin recital to take place today at 4 jn the An­nenburg Auditorium. Kopf will perform works by Sebastian Bach, Ludwig van Beethoven and Maurice Ravel. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
The Divertimento Ensemble, composed of viola flute and bass, with James Ator, composer, will appear at Saint Mary's today as part of the "Meet the Composer" program of workshops and performances. The ensemble will give a lecture and demonstration at 4 p.m. in conjunction with Roger Briggs, a member of the Saint Mary's music department who is also a com­poser. An evening performance, open to the public, will be held at 8 in the Saint Mary's Little Theatre. -The Observer 
The Anti-Apartheid Network will be holding elections for next year's officers tomorrow after a 12:15 vigil. Ifin­terested in running, please contact Margarita Rose at 283-2898 before the election. -The Observer 

Weather 
Go bike riding today as the high will be around 50 to 55. But you may get caught in the rain because there is a 50 percent chance of showers and thunderstorms today, with 40 percent chance tonight. Friday the lows will be in the low 40s and highs in the mid to upper 40s. -AP 


The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
n.., Obscorv.,r (I 'SPS ~99 l·4()()0) is published Monday through Friday ex<·ept during exam and vacation periods. The ObKrver is published hy the students of the l'ni\'ersity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S.~o per year (SlOper ~mester) by writing n.., Obscorv.,r, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana ~M%. 
n.., Obscorv.,r is a member of n.., Assoclat.,d Pr.,ss. All reproduction rights are rrsr..vrd. 

International students at ND bring new customs and diversity 
Walking across the quad, it's not uncommon to hear voices speaking in an unfamiliar language. Ex­otic clothing can at times be seen around campus. "Strange" customs are observed by some students. 
The people who exhibit these unfamiliar traits are part of a unique and richly varied presence at Notre Dame: the international students. They come from as far away as Malaysia, or as close as Mexico. But they came for many of the same reasons -they desired a quality education at a prominent university, and they took the risk of experiencing a culture sometimes radically different from their own, in order to learn more about the world they live in. 
On a campus that sometimes appears stifling in its homogeneity -white, Catholic and middle-class ­the international students bring in a fresh breeze of diversity. Many of them speak English with difficul­ty, and their struggles to learn give friends and room­mates both amusement and a smattering of another language. 
Many also have different religions, which can be eye-opening for those raised in Catholic schools all their lives. Hindus and Moslems are especially numerous among Notre Dame's foreign students, and there are few better ways to get acqainted with some of the world's major religions. 
Foreign students also can give a personal perspective to world events. From knowing several Filipinos on campus, for instance, I have been able to follow the recent events in the Philippines with a closeness and a real interest that I otherwise wouldn't have had. 
In history and government classes, foreign students often add a dimension of reality by raising their hands and, speaking from experience, making knowledgeable comments about the situation in some faraway country. 
The presence of these students is a rare opportunity for American students. Few other places than univer­sities have such a high concentration of foreigners. 
And the opportunity is growing. This year, there are 436 foreign students at Notre Dame, almost a 20 per­cent increase over last year. There are also 44 foreign students at Saint Mary's. And the numbers promise to continue rising. 
Most of the international students here are graduate students, but many are undergraduates. They are represented in almost every department and major. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, has announced his commitment to increasing this enrollment even further. If possible, he said he would like to bring in students from the Soviet Union and other communist countries (there are already 55 Chinese students here, as well as others from Eastern Europe). 
This would be an unparalleled experience for American students, who could see and hear first-hand 
Mary Healy 

Accent Editor 

about societies and mental outlooks completely unknown to them. 
The biggest event of the year for international students, the International Students' Organization Festival, takes place Friday in Washington Hall. In this annual extravaganza, the students from around the world have a chance to publicly display their diverse cultures. Dances, songs, and even a kung fu demonstration will be presented in shows representing 20 different nations. 
Of course, being at Notre Dame is not always fun and games for the foreign student. Especially for those from Asia and Africa, culture shock is in­evitable from the extremely different customs, social conventions and even climate. As we all know, classes at Notre Dame are hard enough with a perfect understanding of English. 
For those hearty souls who are so intrigued by other nations that they are will~ng to actually immerse themselves in a foreign society, there is no shortage of places to go. Semester-abroad programs in such varied places as Mexico, England, Austria, France, Egypt, Rome and Israel, plus organized trips to China and the Soviet Union among others, speak for Notre Dame's international interest. 
Getting to know a foreign student is an invaluable experience. From knowing Filipinos, I have learned not only some of the nuances of Asian culture, but how to say "How are you?" in Filipino, and even the wacky Filipino sense of humor. 



Everythmg for Horse and Rider English & Western 
13th ANNUAL OPEN HOUSE 
MARCH 14, 15, 16 
START THE SEASON OFF WITH SAVINGS ON EVERYTHING, AT LEAST 10°/o 
MANY ITEMS UP TO 50°/o OFF 
Factory Representatives From 
SPECIAL SHIPMENT OF SADDLES CIRCLE Y AND ARABIAN SHOW EQUIPMENT 
l:= ATHER SHOW CHAPS" IN SIX COLOR CONGRESS L ~~ SPECIAL ORDERS TAKEN 
ULTRA SUEDE 

CRATES SADDLRY-~~~L~~ ~~~fD IN 
MONTANA._____SILVER TO FIT EVERY NEED 
SILVERSMITHS 
ACME-DAN POST MANY NEW STYLES _____THE BEST IN LADIES FASHION. SEE CIRCLE T-THE ENTIRE SUMMER LINE. 
REMEMBER EVERYTHING ON SALE FOR 
THREE DAYS MARCH 14. 15. 16  
55345 Fir Road  5/8 Mile North of U.S. 20 on Fir Road  
Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259-1188  Mon. Thru.Sat. 10-8  Sun. 10-6  

The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 3 


Students plan 1986 Charity Ball 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­

The Nation's Number One 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
Child Health Problem. 
StaffReporter 
"A Family Celebration of Life" is the theme for the second community-wide Charity Ball, scheduled for May 2 at the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The ball, part of a large-scale campaign against world hunger by a joint effort of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities, will work toward this year's goal of $10,000, according to Saint Mary's commissioner Meg Heffernan. 
Featured speaker at the event will be Notre Dame football coach Lou 
•Prime Rib Only 
Holtz, named honorary chairman
•Walleye Pike for 1986.
•Chicken Kiev $()95 
Holtz will join University Presi­
Served Mon. rhruugh Fri. ~:00 ril 10:00 p.m. 
dent Father Theodore Hesburgh 
s.rurd•v 4:00 ul 6:00 p.m. unl) 
and Saint Mary's President William 
SuadJr IHIO • m. ul 2:00p.m & 4:00 ul H:OO p.m. 
Hickey in attendance at the dance. 
According to Heffernan, the pro­ject involves the efforts of more 300 E. Colfax 
than 30 Notre Dame and Saint at the River 
Mary's students. 
Since last semester, Notre Dame 
commissioners Pat Collins and 
Karen Povinelli have been meeting 
weekly with Saint Mary's commis­
sioners Kathy Hartweger and Hef­
fernan. Others involved include 
representatives from each dorm, 
who help publicize the event, Hef­
fernan said. 
Although the specific use of the 
proceeds will not be determined un­
til the end of this week, she said 
Catholic Relief Services has been 
instrumental in helping the com­
mission determine a worthy reci­
pient of the funds. 
Proceeds from a similar event last year were forwarded to agen­cies supplying grain and other foods to Ethiopia. 
"We're looking not to feed for a day but hopefully to invest funds in economic interests," said Heffer­nan. 
The Charity Ball commission plans for Holtz to kick off the event at halftime of the champion­ship game in this year's Bookstore Basketball tournament. On the 
night of the dance, scheduled 
events include a cocktail party for 
seniors at Saint Mary's and a VIP . reception in the Monogram Room of the ACC. 
Dorm representatives and com­
missioners are currently working 
on other activities to take place the 
week prior to the dance to promote 
awareness of world hunger, Heffer­
nan said. 
The event will be semi-formal, 
featuring a live band and a D.J. to 
provide a variety of music for 
guests. Hours for the dance are 8 
p.m. to 1 a.m. 
Tickets are $5 per person or $8 
per couple, and also will be made 
available for faculty members 
through each department and the 
alumni office. The ACC and the 
Saint Mary's alumni office will also 
be distributing tickets to the com­
munity. 
Students can purchase tickets 
through their dorm representatives, 
Heffernan said. 
"It's the end of the year and we realize that not everyone has money to give," she said. "But we want to make this an event that people want to come to." 
Notre Dame ends boycott of Campbell 
By MEG EGAN 
News SUI// 
Notre Dame's almost three-year boycott of Campbell Soup Company products ended officially on Feb. 21, said William Hickey, director ofUni· versity Food Services Tuesday. 
"We have received notification from the Office of Student Affairs that the Campbell's boycott Is offi­cially over, and we are now per­mitted to visit salesmen from Campbell's," Hickey said. 
In 1980, and again In 1983, Notre 
Dame students voted in a referen­
dum to suppon a boycott of 
Campbell. Suspension of the: boycott 
occurred Feb. 21 in response to an 
agreement signed by Campbell's. 
The agreement grants union recognition to the Farm Labor Or­ganizing Committee, and ensures improved working and living condi­tions for farmworkers. 
1be boycott's end will not neces­sarily mean a new Influx of Campbell's products products to the dining halls, however, Hickey said. 
"Whatever products that will fit into our program that we were deprived ofas a result of the boycott we will resume buying -such as V8 Juice," Hickey explained. 
"We're not going to drop Heinz just because Campbell's is now aut· horized," he said. 
Hickey said he did not know the significance of the University's par­ticipation to the boycott's outcome. "I .know that Campbell's people were anxious to be on an authorized list at the University." According to Hickey, Campbell's wants to con­tinue to promote itselfas a reputable company, not a boycotted one. 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
Reservations Accepted 234-4477 

This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound' can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. 
From February 15 through April 27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY11 
tl 
go. 

then be good for travel for IS days from the date of purchase. So this Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound. 
Mwn pm<nr a valid cullqj< studenr I.D. card upon purchase So 01h<r dlscounrs •PI'"' l'~<:k<r> :m nonuansfl'rlbl< and Jood for tniY<I on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and olh<r poruc.lp1Wl8 .:am'"' (nwn reolnctJDns apply. Offer df«tr~ 2/15186 Offer linur<d Sor vahd In Canada 
.J~~GO GREYHOUND 
~Analeave the driving to us. 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
•
Unlliadway 
l' J'IHI! (ir~~·huund tmt,, Inc. 



----~ 

Rep. Pepper opposes mandatory retirement 
WASHINGTON-Rep. Claude Pep­per, a vigorous 85-year-old who declares that "agism is as odious as sexism and racism," sought to enlist public support yesterday for his proposal to outlaw mandatory retirement of American workers at any age. 
Presiding at a televised House hearing, Pepper said the bill he has introduced with 50 House co­sponsors is intended to extend to every American -with a few excep­tions -the right enjoyed by federal employees to "be as old as Met­huselah and continue to work, ifyou can do the job." 
Pepper, D-Fla., said he probably would be dead today ifhe had been forced to retire at age 65, three years after he was first elected to the House in 1962 following a Senate career that began nearly a half­century ago. 
Despite two hearing aids, triple­focus glasses, a pacemaker in his chest and two plastic valves in his 

THE OBSERVER BUSINESS DEPARTMENT 
is accepting applications for the following positions 
.Accounts Receivable Clerk 
•Accounts Payable Clerk .Payroll Clerk 
Sophomore Accounting Majors preferred 
Questions should be directed to Eric Scheuermann at The Observer office. Personal statements and resumes are due Thursday, March 13 at 5:00pm. 
..---------------------------------------------------.

Howtobuya Performance.,,;g~~~~:.~l:~g:;~~~fg~
little things. and the big ticket items. that you'll want during college. 
How to get the Card before you graduate. Because we believe college is the first sign of success. we\·e made it easier for you to get the American Express Card. Graduating students can get the Card a.' soon as they accept a SlO.OOO career-oriented job. If you·re not graduating yet. you can apply for a special sponsored Card. Look for student applications on campus. Or call! HOO-THE-CARD, and tell them you want a student application 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it" 



The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Questions about this position should be directed to ScoH Bearby. Personal statements and resumes are due Friday, March 14 at 5 p.m. 
Come to Tivoli's 
St. Patrick's Day Party for United Way 
Drink specials:  ALSO:  Party Favors  
SOc Green Draft Beers  Irish Buffet  
$1 Shots of Schnapps  
$1.25 Mixed Drinks  

March 17, 1986 9pm-3om $5 donation tickets on sale at Notre Dame 
Located on U.S. 33 1"1. at North Village Mall 
277-1877 
The Observer  Thursday, March 13, 1986 ­page 4  

The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 5 
Radio 
continued/rom page 1 
the station and work out a "more proper solution." 

Pesta said Rossow's removal has caused problems because she has completely divorced herself from the station. As a senior, he said, the station was counting on her to helpt train new personnel being hired and elected for next year. 
McDaniel said, "I think that it is a purely informational announce­ment. I'm very disappointed in the administration's intervention." 

Since Rogers chose to disregard the announcement when he took over temporarily, McDaniel said, WVFI~AM has had no problem with the administration since the resignatino. 
And though her station has agreed to quit running the an­nouncement for now, she said it might be back at a future date after she clears up ''very, very am­biguous" rules which govern the station's operation. 
Hoops 
continuedfrom page J 
expected, the four decided they 
should find a charity where the 
profits could be donated. 
Logan Center was chosen because it has been designated this year's special project the men's basketball team. 
Calling themselves "Students for Logan Center," the four said they decided to set a $1 ,000 goal toward the . purchase of a wheelchair for Logan Center resident Faith Acrey. 
Sullivan said the group plann­ed to supplement its $1,000 fund-raising with $500 donated by Logan Center. $1,500 would be added by Carey's Medicaid plan to complete the final pay­ment toward the $3,000 wheelchair. 
But sales were higher than ex­pected, McHugh said, and the group was able to pay for Logan Center's $500 portion of the payment. 
After the South Bend Tribune featured the "Hoop Hysteria" fundraiser in a mid-February ar­ticle, Medicaid immediately ap­proved its part of the donation. 
Sullivan said the article also prompted a flood of phone calls to Logan Center, most from people wanting to contribute to the cause. 
'We hope enough money will be raised to buy at least one, if not two more wheelchairs," he said, referring to how the caller' donations would be used. 
Sullivan, McHugh, O'Grady and Tanczos said they all agree the experience gained from the sale was valuable. 
'We really enjoyed being able to do the service for Logan Center," O'Grady said. 
"It was a great chance to do something fun, while still help­ing others," added Tanczos. 
Although sales of the T -shirt have slowed with the Notre Dame home schedule coming to a close, "Hoop Hysteria" T­shirts will continue to be sold by the "Students for Logan Center" as the Irish beging the NCAA tournament this weekend. 
Correction 

Because of an editing error, the writer of yesterday's front­page story about Percy Pierre's lecture in yesterday's Observer was incorrectly identified. Joe Markey wrote the article. 

r--~~7.;fu~=~;;.;;;-l 
t Watch for South Bend Survival Cups! f 
t  South Bend Blues?  f  
!  ~  !  
t  t  

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Copy Chief Circulation Manager 
Submit personal statement and resume to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Monday, March 17 3rd Floor LaFortune 

HOw to build abetter world. 
.\llm\ u~ to ~uggest three \\';t\~. \\acl lrah~M This is just one example of how ~lacintosh \\:tel Jr:t\\~· .\ml \lacPaint~"' helps student~ work smarter. quicker ami The comhit,~atton of these programs. along more creauvely And the beautY of ,\lacintosh is. \\'ttll :t \l:tnmosiJ computer. \rill gin: architectural you don ·t haw to knmr diddle\· about computers 
srudenb unlimited h·eedom to create. \\'hetiler it he to use one. l(w dr:twitlg building~. designing urban lattdscape:-.. So get :t \l:tcintosh. The world or dr:thmg engineering and construction plans. \\'ill he :t better place hJr it. 

<: 1 1 1,~ \11··· 1 r•llll'llh 1 II•. \pp,\ lh ~'l'ot ~~~~~~ \\.t\1 lf.l\\ ;m,: \J,t.l'.illll .lrt ll,ltit'liLIII-..' nl \!111!.-t •llllptllt1 ll·l \l.1d •r:lll '' .lll.llll'lll.llh uiii\IIU\,IUH·l J,U.11 1 t~l~l• IlK \bllllltl\111' :1 tr.ult1llar~ ,,, \llllll•r-it Ltrutl'.llltl' IJ,, .1111i ''I It'll If.! ll-.itl \\111111'• \lll'•·"'"''nlll:or.'lll!! 

discounted prices from the Notre Dame Computer Store. 
r 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 6 


Letter claims Marcos had schem.e to donate $57 million to Reagan 
MANILA, Philippines Top generals pledged loyalty yesterday to new President Corazon Aquino, and a Cabinet official left for Was­hington in an attempt to recover millions of dollars allegedly hidden by ousted President Ferdinand Marcos. • 
Jovito Salonga, head of the Com­mission on Good Government, said before leaving for the United States that he would consider investigating a claim that Marcos had schemed to influence Washington with huge campaign contributions. 
Salonga said he had received a let­ter, purportedly from a group of Filipino bankers, saying Marcos planned to donate S57 million to President Reagan's 1980 and 1984 
,. 
S. African controversy, violence continues 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG -Prominent whites joined anti-apartheid groups yesterday in angry response to a report that police fired into a black crowd without provocation the day before, and to banning orders against two black leaders. 
"A culture of(black) resistance is being born before our eyes," said Frederick van Zyl Slabbert, a white politician. "I say there cannot be any peaceful change in South Africa. We are caught up in violence." 
Police said the crowd of 2,000 people outside a courtroom in Kabokweni township Tuesday refused to disperse and got out of control. A teen-age boy was killed and 80 people were wounded. 
Another boy was killed by police gunfire in the township later Tues­day. 
Yesterday, a black man was speared to death in the KaNgwane homeland adjacent to the township, and three blacks were injured by stone-throwers outside Kabokweni. 
Police said a black officer was killed early yesterday in Alexandra township near Johannesburg, scene ofbloody rioting last month. 
Enos Mabuza, chiefminister ofthe KaNgwane homeland, demanded a full investigation ofTuesday's shoot­ing. "Most of the pupils who were interviewed at the Themba Hospital had birdshot wounds on their backs," he said. 
Kabokweni is near White River 155 miles east ofJohannesburg, near the Mozambique border. 
Albertina Sisulu, president of the anti-apartheid United Democratic Front, called the shooting "an act of cowardice." 
The Progressive Federal Party, the main political opposition, said it had begun its own investigation. Slab­bert resigned as party leader and member of Parliament recently in the beliefthat the legislature will not reform the race policy that gives South Africa's 5 million whites privilege and denies rights to the 24 million blacks. 
Police said they fired tear gas and then birdshot at the crowd that gat­hered outside the small courtroom in which black youths were facing 
riotc,es. An '. cial statement said a 14­year-q d was shot dead and 80 people were wounded, and a 15­year-old was killed and another youth wounded in later shooting. 
election campaigns and S10 million to other U.S. candidates. 
The letter provided no documentation to support the claim and there was no independent verification. It also did not say that any money actually was paid or that any U.S. official agreed to accept it. 
Salonga said he received the letter Saturday from former banker An­tonio Gatmaitan, who said it was written by 14 Filipino bankers whom he refused to identify. 
In Washington, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said he was unaware of any such influence­buying scheme by Marcos. 
Aquino met for more than an hour with 61 top generals and regional military commanders at Camp Aguinaldo, where the revolution that put her in power Feb. 2 5 began. 
A videotape of the meeting showed Aquino telling the officers, "I'm sure the Filipino people will be forever grateful to you." 
It was apparently a reference to the military's role in installing her. The military officials who led the revolution backed Aquino's claim that she won the Feb. 7 presidential election even though Marcos was declared the victor by the Marcos­dominated National Assembly. 
ChiefofStaff General Fidel Ramos, who was Marcos' deputy military commander before he defected to support Aquino, said all the officers "pledged our support and loyalty to the commander-in-chief." 
Earlier yesterday, Aquino met with her full Cabinet. The ministers put off a decision on whether to declare a revolutionary govern ment, assigning the matter to a com­mittee. 

Kelly is standin·g by-
Call the Birthday Hotline toll free 3619 and wish her a happy 22ndl 
Heather, Mark, Carl, Moura, Lori, Beth, Ann, Kathy & 
Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rental~ 
Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get off 'campus lor the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We have weekly specials designed tor a studenfs budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations· at low unllmlled mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home tor vacation at reasonable prices. 
Conveniently Located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 


IHI II 
THICK 


THURSDAY 


Right now, you ean get the hearty THURSDAY THICK ONE for only five bucks! A thick 12" pizza with pepperoni, double cheese and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery in less than 30 minutes. So call Domino's Pizza and ask for the THURSDAY THICK ONE. Our drivers carry less than 
$20.00. Umited delivery area. No coupon necessary. 

Not valid with any other purchase. 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
~­
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA DEUVERS" 
FREE. ~ 

The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 7 




MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS SHAWBIUIA~ MUOBDBRA • BABA GHENOUJ 
• Vqwt...-• .,_. OW.. 
HOitiAWS • FELAFEL TIUJBOULI SAI.AD SOUTH lEND • LEBANESB STYLA 
• Pile Stu/1ft~ G'lltOS e CHf<PI{ul Prulritl • Tw.illl Coff•• 288·5639 
Tuo• • Sol IJ:J()Pitl · I::JOPitl coMPLETE~ATIIRtiNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES • BANqU~ 
toi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 

Your plasma makes a difference. 
Hlvf no c:b.JOI\ .oout oi-V()U' 
<lONioOn~f\' ~ll«tre:t tro 
~""'""'Of­
._,' Dow INti· 
ng I nor,..._ OKI~ ~It 
"' Cfonll '" ,.,,., r,_ ~ n.JW ' ~­011<1 ~-OOfW:h \II\OfV men1n,1 1,.,... ~ amof CIOI ~ oNII lhfo/ll'flloOUIIV ItO 
~ l)l'tii'Y lht<IO<fd ~It bee<I<M lhfv CCUI:I Ole«l 10 oeo1n Ifom ' """" t"!IJV 1~ rnrv un ce ll..lfd ...n' CIOIIng IKICI 1~1 I,... own IXl<lof\ 
oo noc P'oo..<t 
And that dotUng faCtor Is t3ken trom the pasma you donate. 
How much plasma 
IS needed? AIOI. Fu ~-­
11>1 o/I)IWtoa Y«!!IN rn,on I INIIlOQnh.f ofllle oonng IK~C< ~nt«<. 10 "AI un Me
.,..1'41d tor "'llf ~of piWN fL/11 tor hen'& ~ An:! IIWIMIIII ol IIlii of lJIW!I' Itt u\10 on ftO!OoUI\ ~ -gen:y loom\ 
..rtO#tfO~ 

~J.

~­
i~ 

Cash For Your donation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PlASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation Is Important, so Important thor we'll pay $7.00 for your flrat donation and $9.00 If you donate o second time within the some 
.~ .••. calendar week. In oddltlon, If you meet the physical requirements tri you'll be given a FREE physical and $60.~ worth .of FREE Lob Tests. 
Open. TUE. WED., FAJ., SAT., 9.00 · 5.00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Uncolnwav West, South Bend 
New Donors Bring In this ad for a s4Bonus 
BE SURE TO BRING YOUR J.D. 
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
PIWN ~ 1nt loQuoCI on OOfW;n OIOCXI c~ illt l•illll· 
wrfll Allll'Or<rn.lll'tt hillt o1 ~ ~ I)I.WI.. me ~ c~ att ~'""' lrom VClU' ~ 11 lnt ()(11"0' Ctnlfl' ~ a orcxf\\ 011<1 --~ 'n:l 
1tlurnfd 10 VClU' IXKlY Tnt lJIW!I' l'*tn from 
y04Il ~~IOOul 9l'llrnne<III~WIIfl'. 
tr011 ofrnt ·~ ~ ll'Oitonl ft 1\ 1,_ P'O 
'""' rn,r "'Uled ro
CfNI ~wr1n ...-reus 
dr!N\1\ (11 tl/J~ 


U.S. envoy sent to C. America 
A88odated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, trying to bolster his case for military aid for Nicaraguan rebels, sent special envoy Philip Habib to Central America yesterday and said critics who claim the United States is not interested in a negotiated settle­ment "are making ridiculous noises." 
Habib's three-nation itinerary does not include a stop in Nicaragua. "You don't go where you're not invited," Reagan said. 
The Nicaraguan embassy in Was­hington, however, said Habib was welcome in Managua "if the admin­hority to visit Nicaragua for talks with the Sandinista regime "ifanyth­ing comes up that would show that there might be any prospect or any profit in doing that." 
istration  honestly  wants  to  
negotiate."  
Reagan said Habib has the  aut­ 

After conferring with Habib, Reagan met privately with about a half-dozen congressmen to try to win their votes for sending S70 mil­lion in military aid and S30 million worth ofnon-lethal assistance to the Nicaraguan rebels. 
At this point, the administration says it faces an uphill fight to win the money. The Democratic-controlled House is scheduled to vote March 19 on the package, while the Republican-led Senate is tenr.&tively scheduled to vote the next day. 
There was renewed talk on Capitol Hill about a compromise on the package. However, presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said, "We're not interested in anything short of getting the president's pacakge approved, without restric­tlons." 
Yet, Reagan did not rule out the possibility ofa 60 or 75-day delay in delivering aid, to give negotiations another chance. "We're continuing to talk about all possibilities like that," Reagan said. 

Indiana professor accused by AlA 
A.88oc1atedPress 
INDIANAPOUS · A conservative group is accusing a professor at In­diana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis of promoting leftist ideologies in his class. 
Accuracy in Academia, es­tablished last August as part of the Washington-based Accuracy in Media, reports on perceived leftist bias and inaccurate information in classes and campus lectures based on letters from college students. 
The group intends to make profes­sors more careful about what they say and how they document their facts, said Les Csorba, the group's ex­ecutive director. 
Victor Wallis, the first IU profes­sor to be targeted by the group, allegedly promoted socialist views by assigning his class to read the socialist weekly, "In These Times." 

A student in Wallis' comparative politics class submitted a letter com­plaining that the professor did not analyze the weekly or offer opposing opinions. 
"All he does is expound on his par­
ticular ideology," the student said in 
his letter to the conservative group. 
Wallis said he requires occasional readings from the weekly but said the class analyzes issues in the publication. 
"It (the accusation) is not going to alter what I'm going to say In class," said the associate professor ofpoliti· cal science. 
Wallis said he does not want to release the accusing student's name until he deals with the situation next week after spring break. 
Troy Wright, a student in Wallis' class, said the professor lets students ask questions about the weekly and encourages discussion of all view­points. 
"He lets us draw our own conclu­sions," Wright said. 
Wallis said he assigned the weekly to expose the students to a view­point they would not find in a com­mon publication. 

The Obeener new• department t. now accepting application• for the foUowlng poeltione: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Applications are due Friday at 5 p.m. Contact Frank Lfpo at The Observer of/fee or at 239~5303 for further Information. 

-----------------------------------------------......---­
~i~~~_()__i__Jl__t__________________Th_u_rsd~ey-,M-a-rc-hl-3,_19-86__p_~_e8 


Speaker series appreciated 
Confusion about the changing roles of men and women in the 1980s may trouble col­lege graduates today as they attempt to reconcile traditional family lifestyles and values with new roles for both sexes in society. 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, many with traditional backgrounds, may have particular problems with current role readjustments. 
The junior class at Notre Dame has taken positive steps to educate and inform students of choices available to them today; choices other than traditional male/female roles. 
''The Quiet Revolution: A View of Changing Views and Lifestyles," the speaker series initiated and coordinated by the junior class, comes to a close today with Gloria Steinem's lecture ''The '80s: The Second Wave." 
Steinem's talk follows three other lectures by influential women well-known for their views of the current roles of men and women. 
John Gormley, Flanner hall representative to the junior class, said he saw a need for such a series on both campuses, and initiated the series, after consultation with junior class officers. 
He and other co-sponsors were able to attract speakers such as Jean Kilbourne, an expert on sex stereotyping in the media; Phyllis Schlafly, well-known conservative leader and opponent of the feminist movement; Sarah Weddington, the lawyer who won the 1973 Roe vs. Wade case which legalized abortion; Sister Joan Chittister, ad­vocate of women's rights in the Church; and Steinem, a leader of the feminist move­ment and editor of Ms. magazine. 
The speaker series has enjoyed an enthusiastic response thus far from the students, faculty and staff. The popularity of the lectures have indicated the worth of the series, and the need for open discussion of these topics at both schools. 
The junior class, Gormley, and the co-sponsors on the two campuses are to be com­mended for a well-run, well-organized week of interesting, invigorating and thought­provoking programs. Undoubtedly, the views of some of the speakers were not com­patible to many of those attending. 
But the participation indicates that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are will­ing to open themselves up to other views on roles they soon will be assuming in society. 
Thanks to Notre Dame's junior class, students will be that much better prepared to understand and appreciate the different options available for both men and women after graduation. 
-The Observer 
'Wilson Awards' highlighted 
It's award season again, with the Emmy's now awarded and the Oscars coming up, we have plenty of opportunities to recognize those we feel have done a good job over the past year. Now it's my turn. i hereby an­nounce the first pseudo-annual Wilson Awards. They are not necessarily awarding achievements, but just things I want to recognize -good or bad. So here they are: 
William Wilson or to tear the pages 
The Keep Your Chin Up Award goes to Ryan White, Kokomo's fourteen year old AIDS victim. He has been kept out of school for over a year, and was finally readmitted but on his first day back a local judge issued an order keeping him out of school again. This poor kid is getting a bad deal. 
The Social Commentary Award goes to Sting for his song "Russians." At last so­meone is telling it like it is. 
The Boredom Award goes to South Bend radio stations. One trip to Chicago will ex­plain. 
The Turkey of the Year Award goes to Ronald Reagan. He still wants to increase defense spending while cutting social pro­grams -including financial aid for college students -despite Gramm-Rudman. 
The Last Guy I Want For My Chief of Police Award goes to U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese, who believes that people aren't arrested unless they're guilty. Oh my. 
The Concert of the Year Award goes to George Winston for his "A Seasonal Celebration" concert last December at Chicago's Auditorium Theatre. This Win­dham Hill pianist has talent. Lots of talent. 
The T.V. show of the Year Award goes to 
Doonesbury 
MR. CX-Pf<ESIIJENT-FOR­
tl~ AlMOSTa't/?ta-JeIAJ4S SHfXKEP9YHO(JJ QIJICK/..Y )tJUI?. R£61/rl/3 5EE/ff3P 1{) caJ.APSe•. 

two shows: "Cosby" and "Miami vice." These shows made watching TV fun and ex­citing. Producers, take note. 
The Man of the Year Award goes to Bob Geldof. Enough said. 
The Philanthropist of the Year A ward goes to Mrs. Ray Kroc, for her six million dollar donation to Notre Dame to establish an institute for peace studies. It's nice to see money spent on peace instead of war for a change. 
The Fireside Chat Award goes to Presi­dent Reagan and Soviet President Gorgachev. They finally sat down to talk last November, let's hope it becomes a habit. 
The Big Expectations A ward to new Irish coach Lou Holtz. He's got a lot of people ex­pecting some big things from him, and here's wishing him lots of luck. 
The Last Guy I Want for my Election Commissioner Award goes to former Philip­pine President Ferdinand Marcos. One might want him for a campaign manager, though. 
The Business Decision of the Year goes to the Coca-Cola Company. The old coke is now the new Coke and the new Coke is now the old Coke ... can i have aginger ale? 
The What Are We Gonna Do With This Thing? Award goes to South Bend's ethanol plant. 
And finally, the Less-Than Intelligent Per­son of the Year Award goes to anyone who, during the winter months, doesn't clean off their windows, brake lights, or back up lights, insists on turning through snowy in­tersections at no less than thirty miles per hour, and doesn't wear their seatbelts, regardless of the season. 
William Wilson is a sophomore govern­ment and international studies major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
JUST LAST JtJLY, IJI& HAIJA !JeMOC/?A71C JilL IT ~OfJM (1JMY TAK£SIS 
I=---. /?JJ/.£. 7He IClE FOf< A COUP/.& M& UJtls 4. mew OFBAV 
702.~ APP/.&.5. 
'--...__ 

P.O.BoxQ 
Another ND student 
voices his complaints 
Dear Editor: 

With regards to you, Bill Healy, I can keep quiet no more. In Wednesday's Observer you are quoted as saying that "only" 48 percent of the students who voted "at all" chose divestment. Your conclusion is that ''the stu­dent body doesn't overwhelmingly support divestment." 
Let me ask you, Healy, who voted you in­to office? The students. Did they over­whelmingly support you? Did you garner 100 percent of the vote? No. But this is a democratic society, right? The majority wins. 
I feel the need to explain these simple dynamics to you, Healy, because you seem to have forgotten them. Whether divestment garnered 100 percent or 5 percent, the fact is the majority of the students on this campus want divestment. And therefore you, as SBP, must support that majority voice. For hasn't it been you, Healy, who in your deity­like wisdom have made decisions all year by claiming you are ''the voice of the students"? Since you claim you are that voice, live up to it. Don't just hand in the figures to the Board of Trustees and disassociate yourself from the issue of divestment. The students want it: they've shown this. 
You've been a constant disappointment and embarrassment as SBP this year. Your motives have been all too clear -why rub elbows with the students when elbow­rubbing with the administration and trustees can get you so much further? You're shallow as the width of a dime, Healy. Your actions are pompous and arrogant. Come back down to earth, Bill. We're waiting here for 
you. Mike English Senior 
Fresh air enters offices of student government 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Katy Ken­nelly's March 10 article, "What a mockery the elections indicated." Kenelly, I have many problems with your rash article. First of all, you state that in the voting in of Mike Switek and Don Montanaro for student body president and vice president, the students used "childish mentality"; however, this childish mentality that you say was used, was used by 52 percent of the students who were concerned enough or able enough to vote. I don't think this 52 percent appreciates your calling their vote "childish." 
Second, in your article, you ask, "How can the administration be expected to take seriously anything that next year's student government states?" I ask you, "How seriously did the administration listen to this year's student leaders, or any individual or group efforts attempting to change policy?" Maybe our new leader's efforts and new type of ideas will influence the administration. 
In your article, you once again knock the "bright, concerned individuals" of Notre Dame by saying that they elected two jokers. Mike Switek and Don Montanaro appear to be a breath of fresh air to the conglomera­tion of student offices. Montanaro said he wants to bring the smiles back to students' faces. These two individuals appear to be creative and willing, at least 52 percent of the voters support their capabilities. Kennelly, I don't know if it is sour grapes, but you should have thought more before you knock­ed 52 percent of the voters and also the men 
Garry Trudeau 
who will be representing our student body beginning April 2. By the way, where is the library? 
Pete Hartweger Chris Murphy Keenan Hall St. Edward's Hall 

Student crime destroys student's faith in ND 
Dear Editor: 
In the past two days, two events have caus­ed n_te to lose faith in what I still cosnider one of the most honest groups of people I'm associated with -the Notre Dame student body. The first was the stealing of my wallet from my locker inteh Rock Sunday during the five minutes I showered, when I stupidly and trustingly left the lock off. I just assum­ed nothing would happen, since I had never even locked the locker I used until Sunday. In addition to my drivers license, social security card, military ID, bank card and pictures was a measly $2. 
Much worse than this though, was a theft which occurred at a party at my house Mon­day night. Being a Monday night party, it was relatively small and most people there kncrw each other, although there were some my, housemates and I didn't know. A friend of mine was taking pictures with her Olym­pus OM-10 camera, when she put it down in a corner to protec it. It was from this protec­tive corner that someone stole it. Also stolen from previous parties have been a tap and a California Ave street sign, which I can't replace. It would be greatly appreciated if these articles were returned to either our house or to lost and found. Of course, no qQestions will be asked. 
These are not break in burglaries, but thefts from basically under the noses of peo­ple. I think it's a shame that within the great community of students we have here, a per­son cannot leave a locker unlocked or put a camera down in a friend's house. Please help restore my faith. 
Greg D. Rowe Notre Dame student 

Congratulates students on outstanding actions 
Dear Editor: 
Alumni, parents and friends in the Milwaukee area have been fortunate to have a number of Notre Dame athletic teams routinely visit to compete against Marquette University. We have enjoyed watching the competition and meeting the student-athletes at post-game parties. This past weekend, the men's basketball team staged another great victory, similar to others that have made this series with Marquette such a great rivalry. 
Equally impressive, however, was the con­duct of the rather large contingent of Notre Dame students who came to Milwaukee for the game. A reporter for the Milwaukee Journal attended the Notre Dame club of Milwaukee Basketball Party and interviewed a number of Notre Dame students as well as others. His observations, published the following day, provided a very positive im­age of Notre Dame fans, particularly in 
regard to  sportsmanship and public  man­ 
ners.  
A  number  of  alumni  separately  com­ 

mented how the visiting students were so well-mannered, in spite of an over-capacity crowd at the party. Congratulations are in order to all the visiting students for their display of the true Notre Dame Spirit! 
B. Daniel Merritt President, Notre Dame Club ofMilwaukee 
Quote of the day 

"Life is a holiday. Let's enjoy it together." 
Felini's "8 112" 


Viewv.oint Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 9 
Worst abuse in nine years at Notre Dame 
As an alumnus of the University and presently working within its administration. I have withheld public comment on the deal­ings of the student body president. Given my position, I have felt that it was not my place to be openly critical of what should be an im­portant extension of the undergraduate stu­dent body. With recent events, however, I can no longer remain silent. These recent events include the publication of "We the People." Those sixteen pages of self­congratulatory drivel are indicative of the greatest abuse of student interests I have seen in my nine years of association with Notre Dame. 
John Fitzpatrick guest column 
After graduating in 198I, I spent two-and­
one-half years as a volunteer with the Holy 
Cross Fathers in Kenya. I returned to Notre 
Dame in 1984 because I was grateful to Holy 
Cross and Notre Dame for my profound ex­
perience abroad that I wanted to give 
something in return. I thought the greatest 
thanks I could give would be to put my ex­
perience to the service of students here. With 
service to students as my only reason for be­
ing here, I am scandalized to see something 
as self-serving as the Healy administration 
and to see such a wanton waste of students' 
money as "We the People." 
Under the first signs of pressure during the recall campaign, Bill Healy spent over three­hundred dollars of student funds on a full­page ad in The Observer to defend himself. he must not have considered this to be suffi­cient because he then spent a wad of adver­tising a public forum at which he could de­fend himself in person. The first issue of "We the People" was quick to follow. That could not ~ave cost under two-hundred dollars. Afte'r that came the onslaught of ''Students Serving Students" posters. At Christmas, he sent cards on high-quality sta­tionery to staff heads around the University and God knows where else. 
All these things were not uncovered by in­vestigation. These are things I have bad to confront simply by opening my door and looking outI It boggles my mind to think of all the other possible instances where he might have thrown away money. And whose money did he think he was using? His own? I thought Republicans were supposed to be fiscally conservative! 
Now Healy is listed as the managing editor of "We the People." The lastest issue con­tains two large pictures of Healy, a lengthy interview with him, and fifty direct references to him by name or position. I dare not count the number of times he is referred to, by himself or by others, through the use of personal pronouns. For this his office us­ed sixteen pages of card-quality paper with double stapling, twelve pictures, two ink col­rs, and a run a surely 3,000-plus copies. This is an obscene misuse of what what must have been thousands of dollars. 
Students have many reasons to be up in arms about that publication. Women students should be especially outraged. Are we to infer from the picture of "all the presi­dent's men" that there are no eager and talented women here who are worthy of be­ing included in the "inner circle?" It is very fitting, though, that he would be identified with a phrase that symbolizes a president who got caught abusing his position. Are the "quotable quotes" supposed to be amusing? Most of them are blatant pot-shots at Healy detractors. And how can a person who has spent thousands of other people's dollars on self-promotion have the audacity to demand yet again that The Observer open its books? 
Certainly hard work by students on cam­pus projects should be gratefully 
acknowledged, but where in over ninet•y 
column-inches of ''The Year in Review" do 
we see any progress on real student issues? I 
do not think Healy has a good enough 
understanding of Notre Dame to recognize a 
real student issue if it slapped him in the 
face. He has registered the same progress on 
parietals, the alcohol policy, and student 
dissatisfaction with campus social life as 
every previous administration -zero. That 
could be expected. What other issues, then, 
did he engage which addressed the real life of 
this community? 

The most pressing issue might well be the 
composition of the student body. One of the 
most common student complaints is that 
Notre Dame is too homogeneous. Since I 
was a freshman, I have heard students 
describe, ad naseum, the greatest problem 
with this place-"Almost all persons here are 
from well-off, sheltered, conservative,'male­
dominant, white, Catholic backgrounds. 
And if that isn't enough to make them close­
minded and socially inept, they all went to 
single-sex high schools." Indeed, students 
here are uniform even to the extent that his 
universal, definitive account is almost 
always qualified by something like, "But that 
does not describe me." 
What did Healy do, personally, to ad­
vance the cause of diversity? Was it 
something he embraced enthusiastically? For 
all the attention "We the People" gives to 
work on minority student concerns, Healy 
did not even turn out any members of his ad­
ministration for the recent Unity Rally -an 
event intended to affirm those precious few 
students who do lend this place a little diver­
sity. In fact, Healy was to be seen surveying 
the turn-out with a smirk on his face as he 
made his own way to the Cashier's Office. It 
is all too clear that this is an issue of little 
value to him. 
Another issue which he failed (actually, refused) to grasp was that of divestment. How could he ignore its importance? Does he not read a newspaper and see that there are daily reports of escalating violence and repression in South Africa? Does he not hear or read about the growing number of people who believe that U.S. corporate presence there does more to support the racist regime than to dismantle it? Does he not have enough contact with the outside world to know that divestment is one of the hottest campus issues nation-wide? He says there is not enough interest here. Is he so new to Notre Dame that he can not recognize in­terest when he sees it? Only one other issue in the past ten years has drawn enough interest that he can not see the significance of a referendum? The last referendum (the NO­FLOC boycott of Campbell's), while never enjoying overwhelming student support, was so significant that when Campbell's finally capitulated, it took out a half-page ad in The Observer in an attempt to regain the good grace of "another great tradition: Notre Dame." 
What was Healy's response to the divest­ment issue? He fired from his cabinet the two students most responsible for bringing the issue to the attention of the student body and Board of Trustees. Then, at a rally on the Administration Building steps which was covered by all the local media and even the Chicago Tribune, he accused these two of "personal attacks" on certain members of the University administration and Board of Trustees. His right to select his cabinet is not at question here. What is at question is his right to impugn, in the most public forum possible, the character of two fellow students -and this without defining what he meant by "personal attack" and without substantiating that such ever occurred. He owes them a public apology. 
Healy would not take up the divestment issue, but he did call for the referendum on it. Because it was only with the demands of the recall petitioners that he agreed to put off the vote until spring, one assumes that originally he had called for the referendum only to deny pro-divestment forces the time to conduct an awareness and education cam­paign. When that referendum did pass in favor of divestment, he gave the indication that he would do no more than pass along the results to the Trustees. Referring to the 58 percent voter turn-out, he said that the 48 percent portion for divestment did not give the Anit-Apartheid Network a "claim to be representative of the students as a whole." 
He must not have had his brains turned on when he said that because, by the same logic, neither he nor his hero Ronald Reagan have any right to the offices they hold. Last year Healy ran a close race with a candidate who had been disqualified! Even if he had taken 100 percent of the votes cast, he still had no claim to represent the student body when less than 45 percent of students voted in that election. Healy's hero, in 1980, got only 27 percent of all possible votes! 
Healy must be completely ignorant of his position here. Not only did he fail to grasp what were the real issues, but he tried to eliminate the primary body where students could raise such issues! Whether or not it should be a senate as ours is presently struc­
tured, the student still need an entirely stu­
dent forum where all students are 
represented -a place where student issues can 
be raised, student positions formulated, and 
studetn strategies for promulgation of those 
positions mapped out. Such a body may not 
be the most efficient operation, but it is cer­
tainly the most legitimate. The student 
government administration has no right to 
that domain, and neither it nor the CLC fit 
its requirements. 
In the end, it is ironic that Healy was so 
enthusiastic about the Switek/Montanaro 
win. The election of such a non-conforminst 
ticket seems a clear repudiation of Healy's 
style and of his "reign." 
Having observed the cases presented within this article, I believe that Bill. Healy has attempted to take ''the best student body in the world" for a ride. Healy may be laughing all the way to law school, but the election of Switek/Montanaro indicates that many have become wise to Healy's kind of politics. Certainly many people within the Notre Dame community will remember Bill Healy for what really went on this year. 
John FitzPatrick is assistant rector of Cavanaugh Hall. 
.,.O.Box Q 
Gertie Wimmer wrong on the value of life 
Dear Editor: 

"And in this particular case, the girl's life, 
and the life of everyone else involved, would 
be made easier if she chose to abort the 
child." 

"Yes, she would be committing murder .. 
one to save herself and her well-being." 
The preceding quotes were taken from Fri­day's guest column by Gertie Wimmer. Although I felt a few of Wimmer's arguments were on shaky ground (especially her rejection of adoption due to the "hurt" inflicted on the unplanned child and mother), I wish to address her rationaliza­tion of abortion. 
Wimmer, in her tirade against the Catholic Church's stand on artificial birth control, stumbled into the abortion controversy. As an affirmed ''pro-choice, not pro-abortion" advocate, Wimmer states that abortion is "noble." Abortion (in those ''necessary" cases) is life self-defense and, since self­defense is no crime, murder (Yes, Wimmer does call abortion murder.) is not wrong. Why is it justifiable? "It cannot be wrong if that is the choice you make," she says. 
Wonderful! If I have a choice to make in my life, and it involves my ''well-being" or how to make my life "easier", any choice I make is okay, according to Wimmer, because I am acting in self-defense. After all, isn't any burden or inconvenience a threat to our comfortable way of life? 
Don't you see the implications of this thinking, wimmer? Example 1: A family has a mildly handicapped child. Or, maybe a simple, yet costly, operation is needed to save a normal newborn's life. Using Wim­mer's logic, the child is a threat to our well­being since he or she requires extra financial and emotional care. Well, abortion is justifiable murder, so why no infanticide? Don't even consider the happiness the child may bring to the family -he or she is a burden. · 
Examply 2: An aging parent's health is deteriorating. The co~t of medical care is hurting financially, and the. family is ex­hausted emotionally. The parent is now a threat to our easy life and well-being. Abor­tion is justifiable murder, so why no euthanasia? If Wimmer sees abortion as an act of self-defense, could not one extend this line of thought to infanticide and euthanasia? 
We trivialize human life when we quantify it and give it meaning only when it fits into our neat little plan. Man's quest for the ideal world with no problems or inconveniences has helped put us on the "slippery slope." Where we will stop on this slope, or if we will at all, is up to us. I only hope that when we grow older, our children do not look on us as burdens or as threats to their well-being, but as human beings who have the most impor­tant right, the right to life. For without it, what other rights do we have anyway? 
Michael Smith Howard Hal/ 

It's possible to have fun and run the government 
Dear Editor: 
When I first arrived at Notre Dame last August, I knew very little about life here and practically nothing about the people. From my brothers, who go to highly respected schools in the East, I received the impression that all schools were filled with easy-going, relaxed, friendly people who, together, wanted to ease the tension of studies and make life a little more bearable for everyone. However, after Monday's montage of Mike Switek/Don Montanaro hate letters, I found that Notre Dame does not live up to my ex­pectations. 
Perhaps the letter writers are upset because they voted for the losing ticket or that now they will not get the cabinet posi­tions promised to them during the campaign; nevertheless, it was a fair election and Switek and Montanaro won. Now that the Crayola Guys have the power people are taking cheap shots at them, unwilling even to give them a chance. I wonder if such people care to know that the two men they refer to as "clowns" have already begun working diligently with current student government leaders in an honest effort to· effect a smooth transition into their administration. 
They will undoubtedly be ready to take the helm on April I, and will surely be able to run an effective student government. It may be hard for some people around here to believe, but it is possible to smile, have fun, and be efficient all at the same time. 
Paullndeglia Cavanaugh Hall 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...... .. ...... David Stephenltch
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Eaitor ... .......................................... Frank Upo Controller ......... ..... William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloug, Advertising Manager .Jim Hagan
The Observer IS the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Advertising Manager .. .......... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame dulac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Systems Manager ....... . ........... Mark B. Johnson
adm1n1strat1on of e1ther mst1tuhon. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Production Manager ..... . ......... John A. Mennen
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­Photography Manager. . . ............... Tripp Baltz
Viewpoint Editor ............................ ...... Joe Murphy
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Copy Chief .......................... ............... Philip H. Wolf
ava1lable to aH members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, IS encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 

~------------------------------------­
Accent 
• 

The F·A·C·T·S of DUI 
LEICESTER CHEONG 
features writer 
WbatisDUI? 

Driving under intoxication in In­diana is defined as driving with a blood alcohol concentration of 
0.10 percent. That may seem like a small percentage, until you con­sider that a BAC of only 0.30 per­cent will cause death, and that most people will pass out after a BAC of 
0.17 percent. • 
DUI is not a minor offense in In­diana. It is a midemeanor, unless the intoxicated driver injures or kills someone. In that event, DUI becomes a felony. 
Tbe facts 

Last year, four out of every 10 fatal accidents in South Bend were alcohol-related. In 1984, it was six out of every 10. 
One out of every 10 drivers on the road will be legally drunk on Friday and Saturday nights between the hours of 9 p.m. and 3 a.m. 
One out of every two Americans will be involved in an alcohol-related auto accident sometime during their lives. 
Drunk-driving collisions is the 

number one cause of death among 
15-to 24-year-olds in America. 
More than 30,000 Americans 

die every year in alcohol-related 
Know your limits 
Approximate blood alcohol percentage 
rarely

.06 .05 .04 .11 .09 .06 .06 .06 .05 .05 
.15 .19  .12 .16  .11 .13  .12  .08 .11  .08 .09  .07 .09  . 06 .08  Possibly  
.19  .16  .14  .13  .11  .10  .09  
.22  .19  .16  .15  .13  .12  .11  
.25  .21  .19  .17  .15  .14  .13  Definitely  
.28  .24  .21  .19  .17  .15  .14  
.31  .27  .23  .21  .19  .17  .16  

Subtract .01 percent for each 40 minutes of drinking One.drink Is 1 oz. of 100 proof liquor, 12 oz. of beer, or 4 oz. of table wine 
SUREST POLICY IS ••. DON'T DRIVE AFTER DRINKING 
traffic accidents. In Indiana alone, an average of one person dies every hour in a drunk-driving crash. 
DUI Symptoms 

By the law, a suspected drunk driver can only be pulled over if the police officer has probable cause to suspect him of DUI. Otherwise, all evidence obtained that way would be void in court, even if the driver is indeed legally drunk. Each of the following actions can constitute probably cause: 
• 
Taking too wide or too narrow turns. 

• 
Swaying of car along a straight road. 


e Stopping short or long of stop signs, traffic lights, etc. 
• Not having headlights on. 
• Driving on the center road line. Driving on the extreme right of 
road. e Persistent abrupt braking. 
• Disregard for traffic signs. e Overspeeding or unuerspeeding. e Unsteady or abrupt turning. 
Police officers in Indiana are in­structed and trained to detect the following tell-tale DUI signs on a suspect who has been pulled over: 
• Odor of alcohol on driver's 
breath and clothes. e Watery or blood-spot eyes. 
e Slurred and unsteady speech patterns. 
• Unsteadiness in producing driving liCense and registration. 
e Unsteadiness in stepping out of the car. 
• Difficulty in looking straight at the officer. 
e Driver is hastily lighting up a cigarette or ingesting a chewing gum immediately after being stop­ped. 
• Difficulty in standing straight. Shivering or shaky ha1,1ds. 
To further confirm his suspi­cions, the officer has the right to order the driver to perform a sobriety or field test on the spot. 
If the driver does not perform satisfactorily on this test, the of­ficer will offer him two options under the implied consent law: to accept taking a breathalyzer test or to refuse one. 
If the driver accepts, he will be 
taken to the South Bend county jail 
on Main Street to be tested. If he 
fails the test, he will be arrested. if 
he passes it, he will have the right to 
lodge a complaint against the ar­
resting officer or even file a law 
suit. 
Refusal to take the breathalyzer test results in immediate arrest and more severe consequences than ac­cepting and failing it. Breathalyzer .-quipment is high-tech and .3 98 percent accurate. 
Medical aspects of drinking 
A popular myth is that an ex­
perienced drinker will have to drink 
more to hit a 0.10 BAC as com­
pared to a tee-totaler in the same 
time period. This is a fallacy. The 
subject here is tolerance. An ex­
perienced drinker's body would 
have "gotten used" to the effects of 
alcohol over a period of time. This 
person is then said to have a high 
tolerance for alcohol, which means 
that his body will no longer sense 
the alcohol's presence as well as 
before. However, the alcohol con­
tent is still there, and thus he'll be 
just as drunk as before even though 
he may not detect it. A breathalyzer 
test will. 
Tolerance, then, is a measure of 
how well the body will accept 
alcohol. It is not a measure of how 
well the body can fight off its ef­
fects. A seasoned drinker who has 
had six straight Martinis will be ex­
actly as biologically drunk as a 
non-drinker who has had the same 

Students speak of their experiences with alcohol 
P.A.CIMINO 
features writer 

For almost two years now, Notre Dame has possessed a rigid alcohol policy which many students claim has stifled social life, and forced students to have other ways to have fun. 
The committee recommending the policy also suggested programs to educate students about what alcohol can do to their lives if the drug is not handled reponsibly. This week, active and campus-wide education has .begun, with Alcohol Awareness Week. It exemplifies the beginning of efforts to get students interested in finding out about alcohol. 
This effort is being made by Notre Dame students; specifically the student government Alcohoi Concerns Commission, the Student Activities Board, and the Aroudn the Corner Club. Part of the novel­ty of the program is that during discussion sessions, students who have had experience with alcoholism have been able to talk with students on their own level in a relaxed, person-to-person manner. One such person is a former alcoholic named Kristen. 
Kristen was introduced to 
alcohol, she said, at a young age. 
"My parents owned a bar and I 
started drinking at around 11 or 12 
(years old)," she said. "It gave me a 
chance to emulate older people and 
feel grown up. I thought I was cool 
and I drank in a secretive way." 
Kristen continued to drink and 
had experiences with drugs until 
she realized that she was no longer well and had lost control of her life. "I was feeling so confused. I did not know how I felt physically and I ultimately scared myself into action when I found myself party­ing alone for days," she said. 

Then she admitted herself into a detoxification hospital, and since kicking alcoholism Kristen said she has been fine. "I now feel physical­ly great, it's wonderful," she said. 
While at the detox center, she was counseled on alcoholism and learned how to fight it and live a normal life. Now she is extremely · glad to see that she can be of help to others, she said. 
At Saint Mary's, alcohol educa­
tion is well under way. The College 
has classes for students to take con­
cerning the drug and also have a 
''We want to speed up the process so they can get help as early as possible.'' 
Kristen 
very successful awareness week. "Students there are very m­terested and Notre Dame's alcohol was a wonderful <>rr•nn,n), 

amount. The only difference is that he would not feel the effects as vividly as the non-drinker . 
Another popular belief is that food will lessen alcohol's intox­icating effects. Not true. Food will only slow down, not decrease, the intoxicating process. 
Cold showers and hot coffee have always been praised for their fast curing powers over drunken­ness. However, only time will sober a drunk up, nothing else. 
The major body mechanism that gets rid of alcohol is the liver. The fastest rate that the liver can break down and excrete alcohol is 0.015 
percent of the BAC per hour. That rate is equivalent to half a beer per hour. So even if you drank only one beer every hour, you BCAC will build up faster than your liver can dispose of it. 
So tben ••• 
Now that you know the facts, 
consequences and statistics, there is 
no excuse for getting arrested for 
DUI. 
Having a drink is not wrong. 
Even having one drink too many is 
not a crime. But driving after 
drinking is a crime punishable 
under the laws of Indiana. Besides, 
not doing it saves lives. 

The (;arne 
Fighting Irish vs. Arkansas-Little Rock 
Friday, March 14, 1986 Time 10:37 p.m. EST 
Series First Meeting 
19 appearances by Irish 
NCAA history Won 22, Lost 23 
Notre Dame lOth (AP) Rankings Arkansas-Little Rock unranked 
Tickets Available by calling (612) 333-5577 
The Record 
vs. other teams in Midwest Regional: 
Kansas (8-2) 
North Carolina A&T First Meeting Jacksonville 
First Meeting Temple (1-1) Michigan State (59-35) Washington (1-1) Georgetown (2-0) 
Texas Tech (1-0) North Carolina State (4-2) Iowa (7-5) Iowa State (1-0) 
Miami (Ohio) First Meeting Akron (1-0) Michigan (6-9) 
The Arena 
Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome (30,000) 

TV and Radio 
WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) NCAA Productions 
e 

WNDU-AM 1500 Jack Nolan ~NBC Sports 
WSBT-AM960 
~CBS

Bob Nagle 
SPORTS 

• 
TIS 
•

Perseverance WIDS out 
Kempton overcomes obstacles 
By NICK SCHRANTZ 
Sports Writer 
Centers throughout college basketball are breathing a sigh of relief as Notre Dame center Tim Kempton approaches the end of his career. 
Players such as Jack Haley of UCLA, Tom Copa of Marquette, and Ed Young of Dayton have gone head to head with Kemp­ton several times, and each time they have come away bettered and bruised. The Irish center plays a physical brand of basketball which intimidates opposing players but often goes unnoticed by students and fans. 
Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps is one per­son who will miss Kempton's presence next year and knows his true value to the team. 
"Tim Kempton does a lot of things for this team that go unnoticed," Phelps stated. "He sets screens, makes good passes, gets good position for rebounds, and plays fine post defense. 
"I thought Tim would have a pretty good year, and he really showed what he can do against Dayton and UCLA. When he plays with concentration and intensity he plays as well as anyone on the team." 
It's the little things Kempton has done this year that many fans haven't noticed. Kemp­ton showed his passing ability by placing se­cond on the team with 61 assists. Also, he shot 55 percent from the floor and 74 percent from the line to demonstrate his consistent shooting touch. 
While Kempton's point totals aren't overly impressive, his important role on the team. was recognized at the team's banquet Mon­day night when he was named the Role Player of the Year. And though he is ex­pected to play good defense and grab re­bounds, Kempton also has had several games in which he was noticed because he scored plenty of points. 
Kempton scored eight points and grabbed II rebounds in an overtime loss to BYU in January. Several days later he got the Irish back on the winning track by pouring in 20 points and getting 10 rebounds in a big vic­tory over UCLA. 
The Bayville, N.Y., native played well after that, especially in games against NCAA Tournament-bound Utah and highly-ranked Syracuse. He saved the best for last by mak­ing 14 marks in both the points and rebounds columns in a 69-55 win over Dayton in the home finale. 
Kempton agreed with his coach concerning his style of play that shows up only in the standings, not in the statistics. 
"People notice the scorers, but I try to be a role player that contributes to the team in other ways," Kempton explained. "Reboun­ding both offensively and defensively helps the team because we need the ball to start the break, and to keep the other team from scor­ing easy baskets inside on second shots. I try to play good defense, and I also handle the ball in pressure against a press or half-court traps." 
Kempton has enjoyed a senior year in which he has played well and the fans finally have appreciated his efforts. However, this was not always the case, as injuries during his sophomore and junior years hampered his play and caused the fans to turn against him. 
"I had a stress fracture in my lower left leg as a sophomore, and then one in my lower right leg as a junior," Kempton stated. "Sometimes I could only practice for 20-25 minutes, or not at all, so my timing was off. It was sore, and at times I couldn't play. 
"My experience with the fans has really helped me mature, but it was disheartening at times. It made me a better person, and it showed me how to deal with adversity and pressure. I was trying to do my best, but I think some of the fans were as frustrated as the athletes because Notre Dame sports were in a down time." 
Phelps knew that Kempton was hurting, but many of the fans seemed to forget his in­juries. 
"In his sophomore and junior years he was bothered by the stress fractures, and then he did some things that were negatives," Phelps explained. "I feel that some people were un­fair to him, but I think he handled it with class and poise." 
Though Kempton's scoring averages have dropped since his freshman and sophomore years, when he poured in over 10 points per game, the Irish have improved each year. 
Notre Dame lost in the first round of the NIT during Kempton's freshman year, and then was runner-up in the same tournament 
see KEMPTON, pagel 
The Obterver/~ul Pahoresty 

Senior center Tim Kempton fakes two against Arkansas-Little Rock in tomorrow Maryland defenders up in the air in an Irish night's NCAA Tournamew game. Nick victory earlier this season. Kempton and his Schrantz features Kempton at left. 

-----~----------------------------------­
NCAA Tournament Issue Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 2 
Chuck's guide to 
the tournament 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
Hello again, everybody! 
"March Madness is ready to begin again. 
While the chosen few has become the chosen slew of 64 teams, the NCAA tournament still remains one of the most exciting and un­predictable events in sports. Few games, if any, can be considered easy, and there is certainly no clear-cut favorite this season. 
One thing is for sure, however. Notre Dame will play Arkansas­Little Rock at 10:37 p.m. Friday in Minneapolis, and that's all that really matters to most Irish fans. Still, there's plenty of details fans should know, so we're devoting this column to being a Notre Dame fan's guide to the NCAA Tournament. 
If you're going to Minneapolis ••. it's likely that you'll want to drive. Air fares are a little expensive to the Twin Cities, and with spring break only two weeks away, everybody is counting their 
money. 
The drive is only about nine hours, although weather is somewhat unpredictable this time of year. Take the Toll Road to 1-90-94 in Chicago. Follow I-90 through Rockford, Ill., to Madison, Wis. At that point, get back on 1-94, which goes right into Minneapolis. Signs will tell you how to get to the Metrodome, but the 5th Street exit is your best bet. 
The next thing you need are tickets, and they can be purchased ahead of time. Ticket packages are $36 and $45 and can be pur­chased on your credit card by calling the Metrodome ticket office at (612) 333-5577. Don't be surprised if things don't run too smoothly. The Metrodome has hosted only one other basketball game before, and that was when the 1984 Olympic team played a group of NBA all-stars prior to the Olympics. Therefore, it could be a learning experience for all concerned. 
Looking for things to do in Minneapolis? Well, the Chamber of Commerce was happy to tell me that Andy Williams has two shows nightly at the Carlton Celebrity Room through Friday night. However, if you think Andy might be· a bit much for you, the popular musical "A Chorus Line" is playing in town. 
Of course, many students will be looking for the hot night spots. Suggested hangouts are Saturday Night Jukebox, a local sports bar that plays a lot of music from the '50s and '60s; the popular Seven Corners area, which is across the interstate from the Dome and full of good bars; or First Avenue, which was featured in the movie, "Purple Rain." Say hello to my good friend, Prince, while you're there. 
One other word of advice. It's not necessary to remind people in Minnesota that Lou Holtz is the new football coach at Notre Dame. They already are aware of that fact, and thry really don't like hearing about it too much. 
If you're not going to Minneapolis •.. you will be able to see the first-round game on TV. WNDU-TV (Channell6) will televise the contest, even though that means "Miami Vice" will be pre-empted. 
Should the Irish get past Arkansas-Little Rock, CBS holds the rights to the second-round games. It's a good bet that the local CBS affiliate, WSBT-TV (Channel 22) will be showing the Irish game as CBS tries to show different games to different areas of the country. 
What to watch for in the tournament ••. 
1) Fewer upsets. The presence of a 45-second clock isn't going to allow a lesser team to just bleed the clock. Therefore, while there may be some surprises, don't look for any of the top four seeds in the region to lose in the first round. 
2) Loosely-officiated games. Officials tend to hesitate to blow the whistle a little during the tournament because they don't want to lose the game for a team. This could be an advantage for te~s from the Big East and the Big Ten. which are used to the poundmg_ underneath. lt also should benefit Notre Dame, which hkes to play a physical game, too. 
3) At least one team with seven losses or more will reach the Final Four. This really doesn't require much of a crystal ball. Of the 64 teams in the tournament, 37 have seven losses or more. That is par­tially a display of the parity that is found in NCAA basketball these days and partially because there are so many dog teams from bad conferences getting automatic berths. 
Hopefully, all of this information will help you enjoy the tourna­ment a little more. So sit back, root for the Irish and let's see if Digger does Dallas. 

Freshman guard Mark Stevenson, shown here in a game against maryland this season, won the Most Ac­curate Shooter A ward at this year's basketball ban-
Kempton 
continued from page 1 
the following year. Last year the Irish advanced to the seeond round of the NCAA Tournament before losing by a point to North Carolina. 
Kempton has improved over his career, but he sees his progress in relation to the progress of the team. 
"I feel I've matured as a player, but I see improvement in a team respect," Kempton stated. ''We've had four great classes, and now we're peaking for the tournament. I recognize basketball in a more goal-oriented, team capacity now. 
"As an individual, I understand the game more now. From the statistics I know it's hard to see the progres­sion, but I feel more confident in my whole game because I know more aspects of the game, instead of just one or two." 
While the Irish have been good for several years, this is the first time they have had all the pieces in place for a bid at the national champion­ship. 
"This team has a specialness and family character that make the dif­ference betwt;en good teams and great teams," Kempton explained. "We've recruited some super guys in the last four years, and everybody gets along because there are no egos or selfish players. 
"From the coaches to the players to the managers, we all know our roles and what it takes to be a great team so we can accomplish our goals." 
Despite the problems with injuries and the fans, Kempton looks back fondly on his years here as gradua­tion approaches. 
"I'm definitely happy I came here," he stated. "The decision was between here and Duke, and I have no regrets at all. It's a super situa­tion, and I've met a lot of nice peo­ple. 
"It hasn't always been perfect, but neither is life," Kempton con­

Not just a tournament 
Notre Dame sees impact of making NCAAs in its non-athletic areas 

ment. Last year, for example, NCAA­champion Villanova reported about a 15­percent increase in the number of applica­tions received. 
While the Notre Dame admissions depart­ment does not expect such an increase because the University already enjoys a great deal of exposure, Valdiserri recalls an effect on admissions at Saint Mary's College a few years ago because of tournament play. 
"I remember about five or six years back when we had a very good team in the tourna­ment," he says. "The announcers would oc­casionally mention Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. We heard from the staff at Saint Mary's that the number of applications in­creased for the next year. When the team does well, everyone benefits." 
Notre Dame women's head basketball coach Mary DiStanislao sees the team's success in the tournament as an opportunity to strengthen all University programs. 
"Being in the NCAAs definitely helps," she says. "We can point to other programs and say, 'This is the success that can be had.' Sure it helps women's basketball, but we're talk­ing about something much larger. Every department in the University takes pride when one of our teams succeeds." 
One department that has its hands full dur­ing tournament time is the Sports Informa­tion Department. Putting releases together, scheduling interviews and distributing infor­mation is a large job to tackle in the few days between the tournament selection and tomorrow night's opening game for the Irish. 
"It's definitely a hectic period for us," says Notre Dame associate sports information director John Heisler. "The biggest problem is that we are restricted on time. We have to try to get to as many people as we can in the time we have. There are a lot of people who 
want  to  know  about  the  team,  ticket  
availability,  interviews  and  various  other  
things."  

So while the team is busy practicing, review­ing game films and discussing strategies, the behind-the-scenes people are working diligently to try to keep pace with this busy period. Success does not come easily. 
One thing is for sure, however. You won't hear anyone complaining. 
here, and I think he11 do well in the 
NCAAs." 
Irish ·fail in attempt at another miracle finish 

at*Notre Dame 
6.-20 18·12 26-3 
lS>-10 
23-6 22-7 23..8 24-6 
22~ 
23-6 
10;.17~: 
19-10 %1•12 

With only a few games remaining, Irish fans have only a short time to realize the value of Tim Kempton as a player. With all the media 
Time Capsule 
coverage surrounding the tourna­
by Marty Burns
ment, maybe Kempton's impor­tance to the success of the Irish will finally be noticed by the fans, not just by opposing players. 
It was the moment Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps had always dreamed about. In a fantastic sequence of events that had Irish fans pinching themselves to make sure it was real, Notre Dame's Stan Wilcox stole an errant inbounds pass and fed it to 

treDame 
teammate Duck Williams for one last desperation shot. 
With the helpless Duke basketball team and a national audience viewing, time froze for a dreamlike moment in the NCAA Final Four game in the St. Louis Checkerdome. At stake was a trip to the 1978 NCAA championship, and the Irish seemed on the verge of pulling out yet another miracle finish in their 23-6 dream 
2-1 in NCAA 
season. 

2-1 in NCAA 
The Wilcox-Williams steal had capped off a frantic and unbelievable comeback for Notre Dame, which had found itself 14 points behind the Blue Devils with only 3:55 to play. But now 
2-1 in NCAA 
?-?in NCAA 
Williams, with the score at 88-86 in favor of Duke and only 20 seconds left in the game, set up for a shot at history. 
1-1 in NCAA 1-1 in NCAA 

The dreams of Duck and Digger were shattered, however, as Williams' shot rimmed out and Duke's John Harrell came away
3-2in NCAA 
with the loose ball. Harrell then canned two free throws to forge the 90-86 final score. Notre Dame would not get to the final game, but it had gone to its first-ever Final Four. Duke proceeded to fall to Kentucky, 94-88, in the championship game. 
Actually, Notre Dame, which had reached the Final Four with vic­tories over Houston, Utah and DePaul, had no right to harbor any dreams. After all, Duke was the team led by Tinkerbell. Gene "Tinkerbell" Banks, a silky-smooth freshman who today displays his talents in the NBA, canned 22 points and used his magic to keep the Blue Devils in control when the Irish rallied in the second half. Also sparking Head Coach Bill Foster's Duke squad was guard Jim Spanarkel (20 points) and center Mike Gminski (29 points). 
The Irish were keyed by a balanced scoring attack that included 16 points from Williams, 11 from Tracy Jackson and 10 apiece from big men Bruce Flowers and Dave Batton. In addition to their con­tributions, Phelps got clutch performances from Bill Laimbeer (seven points, 10 rebounds) and from a freshman by the name of Kelly Tripucka, who added 12 points and hauled down nine re­bounds. Guards Rich Branning and Bill Hanzlik, meanwhile, kick­ed in eight points each. 
Although Notre Dame's dream had ended on the hardwood of the Checkerdome, that team still had helped to write a new chapter in Irish basketball history. And their dream was one that kept a lot of fans wide awake with excitement in 1978. 
-
-· 

NCAA Tournament Issue Thursday. March 13,1986-page 4 
1986 NCAA tournament 
I 
l 
I First Rounds Second Rounds 
I 
I 
Kentucky

I 
SOUTHEAST

Davidson 16
I 
I 1
I I 
I 
I 
I I I ,_ 
I I 
I 2
I 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 


-

Sites Southeast West 
1 
March 13 & 15-Baton Rouge, LA 2March 14 & 16-Charlotte. NC March 13 & 15-0gden, Utah 4March 14 & 16-Long Beach, CA Site: Assembly Center Stte Charlotte Coltseum Site: Dee Center Site Long Beach Arena Host: Louisiana State Host: UNC Charlotte and Davtdson Host: Weber State Host: Long Beach State 
3 


East Mideast 
March 13 & 15-Greensboro. NC March 14 & 16-Syracuse. NY March 13 & 15-Dayton, OH 8March 14 & 16-Minneapolts, MN5Stte Greensboro Coliseum Stte The Carner Dome Site: UD Arena Site: The Metrodome Host Atlanttc Coast Conference Host Syracuse Host: Dayton Host: Minnesota
6 7 
-


ment here in that it was planned to "He was very supportive and en­"People should just come out of direct orientation, education, and thusiastic," said Kristen. Tyson in­their curiosity and not feel bad. counsel about alcohol towards the vited both of them to speak at a This week is for everyone," said 
students, with help from the Kristen. "It's too bad that most
meeting of rectors and the problem 
students," said Kristen. began to get attention. "We have to people have to go through "It is beginning that now, finally. creat a feeling of prevalency," she alcoholism before they become This is the best time in life to keep noted. "People tend to see the pro­aware. We want to speed up the process so they can get help as early
people from becoming alcoholics blem as being romanticized, but it 
and awareness can lessen alcohol as possible and hopefully we can
is a real issue and it is the Univer­
problems. That's why I have sity's responsibility to make give people the opportunity to spoken out," said Kristen. students aware of it." recognize the start of any addic­tion." This is where the University can
Months ago, when Kristen and The attendance at Alcohol help by giving students somewhereanother former alcoholic, Mark, Awareness Week events has not to go to learn about alcohol, she were trying to gain support for a been very encouraging, said said. Fifi Paraiso, Notre Dame'scurriculum at Notre Dame like that Kristen. Students should be in­alcohol concerns commissioner,at the College, they encountered terested in hearing about alcohol said she believes, "The ultimatemany closed doors and were given a from people who can empathize but goal is not to get students to stoprun-around until they met with also realized that people may think drinking, but to get them to drinkVice President for Student Affairs that by coming they are saying they responsibly."
Father David Tyson, they said. are alcoholics, she said. 
A glimpse of other cultures 
COLLEEN CLYNES "The festival consists of a culture with the Notre Dame com­features writer number of sketches and dances that munity. All the participants learn represent certain countries," said respect for cultures different than 
Interested in foreign travel free an act illustrates
bualuan. "Often their own." of charge? I'll bet. This weekend 
more than one culture." "It is not just for foreignthere is a unique opportunity to The Lebanese "dabkeh" dance, students," stresses Bualuan. "All visit 20 foreign lands in one night -singer John Kennedy, a Kung Fu 
are more than welcome to par­right here on campus. demonstration, a Chinese dance ticipate."The annual International 
and a few humorous sketches are Students Festival, sponsored by the The festival will enable students
among this year's acts. International Students Organiza­This year's participants include to experience a nation beyond its tion, will offer glimpses of other 60 to 70 foreign students, with a name on the 11 o'clock news. It 
cultures through dances, skits and number of freshmen involved, presents a rare opportunity to look other acts this Saturday in although the majority of the group at the culture behind the nation, a Washington Hall. are juniors. different outlook on the lifestyle. 
Ramzi Bualuan, a Lebanese 
Attendance has increased in the graduate student at the University, past two years, and so has student "It's not every day that you can is this year's festival chairman. go see an authentic forei&n dance
participation, Bualuan said. 
Students representing 20 countries "The main reason for the festival or presentation," said Bualuan, will perform a variety of acts at the is the opportunity it provides for "but on March 15, you just have to festival, he said. go to Washington Hall." 
foreign students to share their 

Questions should be 
directed to Mary Jacoby at the 
Observer office (239-5313).
The Independent student newspaper Resumes and personalserving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is statements are due Thursday,accepting applications for the following March 13.
positions: 

• Assistant Features Eaitor 
The Observer 
• Features Copy Editor 
3rd Floor, Lafortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 10-11 
Foreign 
students flavor 
flavor campus 
for more foreign students to study
SUSAN HRACH 
here at Notre Dame. 
features writer 
Why do students from other countries choose Notre Dame? 
was absolute

"That test an Primarily because the University is 
nightmare," might be something known and respected international­you exclaim as you walk out of the ly as a learning institution. 
door of your history class after tak­Foreign students' majors are as ing an exam. Next time you feel this diverse as the countries these 
way, be grateful for one thing, at students are from. Thoughleast you took the test in your engineering is the most popular ma­native language. 
jor, the students also major in For foreign students at Notre business, liberal arts, theology, and Dame, college is much more than the natural sciences, to name a few. 
getting used to living away from Father Theodore Hesburgh, mom and dad. They cope with a University president, is extremelydifferent language, different social supportive of foreign student customs, and an environment dif­enrollment at the University. He ferent from anything they've ever would like to eventually see 10 per­encountered. 
cent of the student body from "The whole mentality is dif­abroad, because he has strongferent! It's hard to get used to," dedication to the international 
says Rolla Karam, a freshman. But nature of universities themselves. 
she and other students including Augie Cheh of Hong Kong agree The forthcoming International they're happy to be here. "Notre Institute for Peace Studies will be Dame is supposed to be the best in an important instrument to further the States," says Cheh. international development at Notre 
Notre Dame's-foreign student Dame. Hesburgh hopes to host enrollment has increased 16 percent students "as soon as possible" this year, from 375 in the '84-'85 through the Institute visiting coun­school year to 436 in the '85-'86 tries such as the Soviet Union and school year. Students from 64 other nations where nuclear disar­countries other than the United mament problems exist. States attend the University. Notre Dame students' interest in 
Though European students com­modern languages offered at the prised the majority of foreign University illustrates the effect students in the past at Notre Dame, foreign students have had on Notre Easter (Indo-chinese) students are Dame education. Their presence currently the majority of foreign forces Americans at Notre Dame to students on campus. director of In­acknowledge the world outside the ternational Student Affairs Art U.S. shores, and to become aware, Gruber! attributes part of this in­as young people, of the necessity crease to new policies made by the for a peaceful future. government of China. Students from abroad bringing 
There are almost three times as their own philosophies and many foreign graduate students as languages to the University and undergrads at Notre Dame. The become, "a very, very rich resource availability of fellowships for for every Notre Dame student and graduate students makes it member " Grubert. 
=-""..,..;--~·..,..,.:: 
The OIJoena!lim Curoll 

Students rehearse their dance for Saturday's festival. 

~-~-~----­
' < The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 12 

IF YOUR MOM WILL LET YOU STAY UP LATE TOO, THEN WE NEED YOUR HELP. 
I
I -:­
I I I I I I 
APPLICATIONS FOR STUDENT 
GOVERNMENT CABINET ARE NOWAVAILABLE AT OUR 2ND FLOOR LaFORTUNE OFFICES. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
Spring Break 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Executive Coordinators, United Way 
Chairman, Transfer Orientation, Freshmen Orientation, Cabinet Members and Special Projects Coordinators. 
Ifyou are willing to work with us, we are willing' to work with you. 
IF YOU HAVE THE ENTHUSIASM & 
THE TIME, 
WE HAVE A CRAYON WITH
I II ­
I 
YOUR NAME ON IT.
I 
I 
I I 
•-. 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 13 
continuedfrom page 20 
Sports Briefs Kiel 
Women's Bookstore Basketballsignupswill 
be held Sunday from 1 · 3 p.m. in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy next w the Snite Museum. Only one NCAA athlete or two SMC var­sity athletes, including both present and former players, will be allowed per team. A $5 registration fee per team will be collected. For more information call Melissa Warnke at 283-3433 or Mary Sheridan at 283-2930.-Tbe Observer 
The Off-Campus lacrosse team will hold practice today at 6 p.m. on Cartier Field. Players also are reminded that insurance forms must be turned in by tomOTTOw. For more in­formation call Louie Conley at 234-1253. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Water Polo Clubs. both men's andl women's, will hold practice today from 4 -6 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any men players with questions should call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588. Any women unable to attend should call Nancy O'Brien at 283-2894.-Tbe Observer 
The ND men'svarsity crew team will hold~ 
practice tonight at 6 p.m. in Gym 2 of the ACC. Varsity women and all novices are also welcome to attend. There also will be a meeting tonJaht at 7 in Room 123 ofthe Nieuwland Science Building for all members ofthe Rowing Club. Members are reminded to bring ra1De tickets, money, and checkbooks. For more information call Patricia Worth at 283-2759.-Tbe Obseroer 
A 5K Heart Lights Race will be held today at 3:3o 
p.m. starting in front of the South Dining Hall and winding up at the North Dining Hall. Anyone interested may register in advance at the dining halls or sign up between 2:45 -3:15p.m. at the race sight. For more information call Suzanne Farnia at 239·7254. -Tbe Obseroer 
Bengal Bouts sweats and shirts must be 
picked up by fighters by tomOTTOW at Holy Cross Hall, Room 319. Anything not picked up by this deadline will be sold. Donations for coaches gifts also should be sent to Kevin O'Shea at the above address by the deadline. For more information call Ed Kelly at 234­7083. -The Obseroer 
A St. Patrick's Day 5K run will be held by the Student Activities Board on Saturday. Anyone interested may register this week at the dining halls for a fee of one dollar. -Tbe Obseroer 
An Tostal co-ed innertube water polo 
sign-ups will be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. at the information desk in LaFortune. Teams must field seven players at a time, two of which must be females. Teams may have a maximum of two current ND water polo team members or two varsity swimmers. Entry fee is S7 per team. For more information call Mike Roberts at 272-3971.-The Obseroer 
Fans may remember last seeing Kiel toss the pigskin brietly for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. An 11th­round draft choice, Kiel did show some promise for the Dues, but was cut in 1985 after suffering a relapse: ofCrohn's disease. 
Crohn's disease is an ulcer problem similar to the colitis that nearly took the life of San Diego Chargers' kicker RolfBenirschke. Al­though serious, Kicl's case was al­leviated by medication. Even with the recovery, however, Kicl was preparing to hang up the shoulder pads and take a job as a stockbroker when the Colts called 
And though bad fonune of the type he suffered would make many players bitter, Kiel's intestinal problems have not affected his sense ofhumor. 
"The past year literally has been a pain in the butt," he said. 

Tht' Ohst'rl"t'r :\o1r.· l>dmt· olfkc lot dlnl on lht· lhoru floor of l.dl·orlunt· ~lUUl'nl ( rnla. dl"l'l"PI' da.,Mfinl aun·rl"on~o: from') d m Ulllil t p m ..\lonua\ lhrou~o:h l'riua' 7'ht' Ohst'rl"t'r ~aonl \!an·, olfitt· lotdl<"u on Ill<" 1horu flour of llaAAar <:ollc~o:<· <t·nl.-r. ant"P'' dd'"lit·tl, from 12 ~~~ p m unlll .~ p m. \lon <lay !hou~o:h ~rolla' lkdulon<" for nt'XI tid\ tld"olinl' " ~ p m \II da,Mfi<·u, muM Ill' prc:paou. c:irhn in pn">n or IH mdol < hdrJ.:<" '' lllt'l'nl' flt:r lht·t·hara<
Classifieds 
Ia' aua\· 
NOTICES 
LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS 
LEAVING MARCH 21 
RETURNING APRIL 1 
RD. TRIP $77 ONE WAY $50 
SIGNUPS IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY 4-6 
PM ON FRI. MARCH 14 
Wordproceaalno·Typing 272.a827 
Typing available 287-<4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-1187 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
ATTN: STUDENTS Dolores Francia typing service phone number change 277-8131 
TYPING -Fast, Hlgh·Ouallty. Call 287·9257 
Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for Spring Break. Will ahara usual. Call Lorrl a I 284·5315 
LOST/FOUND 
OK. WHOEVER STOLE MY GREY OVERCOAT FROM 601 ST. LOUIS ST. ON 2114 I WANT IT BACK; SPRING ISN'T HERE YET AND I'M COLDI A REWARD IS OFFERED. CALL BRIAN AT2209. 
LOST: Pair of blue leather gloves. II you remember finding a pair of gloves on Fri. Feb. 14, or around then, (probably In Comp/Math 300, N.S.H. 123, O"Shag 105A or Eng. Aud) please call Frank x1578. 
LOST: womens sliver ring or anor· moua senllmental value; posallby lost alobrary. Call Kalhy 35611. 
LOST: Beige sports jacket at Laughlin Auditorium at S.M.C. downstairs first week of Feb. Dear lady who called me before, please call me again. Great sanumantal value. Thank you lor your pallence. The tag reads "G. Cannon 40169" Please call at 283·3244 
AI !he B.P. SYR (2115) I picked up lhe wrong Sport Coat. Hopefully that per­son also has picked up mine, It was • tweed Hunllng Horn -similar to th& one that I picked up. II you are look· lng lor your coal or have mine please call Kevin ai28J.21 13. 
HELP! MEN'S GOLD CHAIN MIS5­ING. TAKEN FROM 205 CARROLL NIGHT OF MAR. I PARTY PERSONALLY VALUABLE NO QUESTIONS ASKED $$REWARD$$ 4051 LOST: My big Sears (wow!) radio/cassette player In Riley arl building. I could have sworn 1 put It In my locker, but II you found It elsewhere, please call Paula x2866 and tall me where I can lind It or put It back In locker 307!1 
Wristwatch Lost L.L. Bean/Hamilton brand. Black leather wristband. Please call Jam/a at4 I 16/llound. 
LOST: One class ring with aquamarine birth stone. Any Informs· lion leading toward recovery will be rewarded. call I 572. 
LOST, PRESUMABLY STOLEN: My walla! from the Rock on Sunday alter· noon. I'd really like all my IDs back before break, hope you spenl lhe $2 well. Call Greg al 232-8875 or give II to loot & found. 
LOST: black TIMEX digital walch. Please call Blll1612 
LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN BRACELET!! II LOST BETWEEN (OR IN) B.P. AND NORTH DINING HALL PLEASE TELL ME YOU'VE FOUND IT!! CALL STEPHANIE AT 1327. THANKS! 
FOUND: 3110 In Concepts ot Mod. Sci. class: pair of tan suede gloves. Too small for mel Call Rob al1201 to claim. 
PLEASE RETURN MY UNIVOX (WALKMAN) TO 718 ST. LOUIS AND ALL IS FORGIVEN 
LOST -LOST --LOST -LOST 
1.0. LOST THURSDAY NIGHT (LATE) ALONG WITH DRIVERS LICENSE AND A DETEX. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT FRAN AT 2244. REWARD·-REWARD-·REWARD-­
Someone atole my baby from a mon­day night party at 814 corby The only po$$a$$1on I have that IS worth anything, an olympua om-10. I'm real· ly gonna mr.. II ao I'm willing to glwe caah lor Ita return. It waa laat ...non a chair near the aterwo. II you haw It and you haw any HnH of decency pleaH call Mollie Merchant at 4039 
LOST: Ladlea watch, blue bralclad band, near Sacred heart Church. Great aenllmental value. reward. 2n­8353 or 238-7817. 
REWARD •.. $40.00 LOST Black tuxedo jacket with tails and red bow lie. Both In white plastic bag lost 318 at OC Party on E. Navarre St. Need desperately! Call 3810, Chuck. 
LOST: A brown Donnagal Tweed hat. It was probably left In O'Shag two weeks ago. Please, this hat has san. tlmantal value and Is Irreplaceable. REWARD No questions asked. Call 3833 or return to Lost and Found Of· 
Ilea. 

TICKETS 
one roundtrip airline, South Band to 
Tampa, Florida. Leave March 23 
return March 31.$238 272-4711 or 2&4­
4511. 

..........,..................... . 
WANTED 
TWO RIDERS NEEDED, LEAVING FRIDAY MORNING, TO PENSACOLA AREA. OR, RIDERS NEEDED TO SHARE CAR EXPENSES TO PEN­SACOLA, LEAVING FRIDAY MORN· lNG. CALL MARY (4172) OR SHARON 
(3390). 

NEED A MALE ROOMMATE IN HOUSTON, TX, AFTER GRAD. CALL BOBx1743 
································ 
Need AIDE to NEW JERSEY can leave 3/21 call John x1024 
NEED AIDE TO NO. NJ 3121 JANET 284-4346 
HELP NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR BREAK CALL LEEANN 284-5520 
Two girls need ride to Fl. Lauderdale lor break. Call Mary 1327 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 28HI389. 
Seml·furnlshed house In good neighborhood 255·3684/277·3804 
PERSONALS 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pagea of the Campua Telephone Directory. UH them today I 
2 sun· lovers DESPERATELY need ride to Florida for break! Will share expanses. Call 283·4684 ASAP! 
D plusG D plus G D plusG D plus G May It forever be ... 
SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYR 
FRIDAY MARCH 14th HAGGAR PARLOR AND CHAMELEON ROOM 9pm-I am TIX$8·S10ATDOOR AVAILABLE IN O·C DAY LOUNGE THIS WEEKI 
SMC OFF·CAMPUS SYRI BE THERE! 
BAHAMAS no. BB 
Bill B., Whal grill? 
DISCOVER DISCOVER DISCOVER 
KEENAN HALL PRESIDENT MAR· CANTUONO -MOSIER 
LIFE BEGINS: MAY8AT5:00P.M. 
D.C. SPRING BREAK BUS Rd. trip and ONE WAY space still avail. Call Kevin at 1062. 
TO ALL WHO MADE RACE'S 21st WHAT IT WAS THANKYOUI 
RACE THOMA FOR OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER FUN & EXPERIENCE· RACE!! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't have done It without your help. 
HAVE CAR, NEED RIDERS TO FLA.! III Call Marilyn or kalhy al 3885. 
Applications tor manager pooltlona of 
ThaCel/er are available now at the record sotre In the LaFortune basement. The forms are due In the Student Govern­ment ofllces by 5:00 this Thursday. 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO DAYTONA OVER SPRING BREAK. S75 CALL TRAVEL 2000 232·11489. 
SMC FRENCH CLUB WILL BE SPON· SORING A CREPERIE ON THURS. MARCH 13 FROM 5-8 PM AT THE CLUBHOUSE. THERE WILL BE A CHARGE OF $.50 ADMISSION. BON APETITE 
NSHP Is looking for tutors to help South Bend school kids with class work. This center runs on Tues/Thurs. from 4:15-5:45. II Interested call Susan (3415), Dan (1836), or Tom (1656). 
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT PREPARATION MATERIALS Willing to sell my KAPLAN Revlaw Materials from last year lor $50 or basi ofler. x3731 
THE PITTSBURGH CLUB-SPRING BREAK BUS Slgnups: 6-7 pm Thur. Mar. 13 at Lillie Theatre LaFortune Leaves: 4 pm Frl Mar 21 CCE & Holy Cross Returns: 1 pm Tues Apr 1 Gryhnd Term. 111111111111111111111 ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING AN OFFICER FOR NEXT YEAR, PLEASE ATTEND QUESTIONS: call A.J. x1844 
································ 
SAB ST. PArS RUN, 3/15 SIGN UP IN THE DINING HALLS AT DINNER Found: pearl bracelet on Eddy St. Saturday night. Call to claim 284-4138 

I love you CLANCY GREEN Thanks lor a great year! Love Margie 
ST. PArS PARTY AT TIVOLI'S lor lhe UNITED WAY I $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
Thank You St. Jude lor all your help I Please continue to help mel 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm· 12am Monday-Thursdday; 5pm·2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm­10pm Sunday. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE I 
NOTRE DAME ARE YOU READY FOR ST. PATRICK'S DAY? THE ST. PATRICK'S DAY WEEKEND CELEBRATION IS COMING MARCH 14-17. GO IRISH I Ill 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
' . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BOSTON BOUND FOR SPRir~Q BREAK? 
NEED A RIDE? OR GOING THRU ALBANY, SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUFFALO OR ERIE? PLEASE join two ln­leresllng domers on their way lo Har· vard. We'll leave Frl March 21. PLEASE call 3861 soon. 
NEED A RIDE LEAVING WASH, D.C. MARCH 2n Join two domers on their way back from SPRING BREAK. PLEASECALL3861. 

THURSDAY NIGHT CLUB ON CORBY Has been moved to Sat. for a ST. PADDIES DAY BASH starting at10:30 In the morning. 
What would an organl:utlon like the South Bend Houatng Authority want 
"DOMERS DO DALLAS" DOMERS DO DALLAS" DOMERS DO DALLAS" 
T-Shlrts, call· John·3673, Bolg·3559, Mark1040 
CPA Joke of the Week 
Why Ia a atock apllt like klaalng you alater? Because nothing happens! 
WOMEN OF NO -NO MOREl NO MOREl THE STRUGGLE IS OVER AND YOU LOSEIII 
HI HI 
.iiev:(),;;:::cA"t.iPtis srt.ioiiNrs;. 
VOTE EILEEN HARTIGAN OFF-CAMf'US STUDENT SENATOR 
3111, LAFORTUNE, 12·5pm 
Ombudsman Presents Operation Brainstorm 
••• clatalla coming aoonl 
Novena to St. Jude 
0 Holy St. Jude, apostle and mar· 
tyr, great In virtue and rich In 
miracles, near kinsman of Jaaua 
Christ. Faithful Intercessor ol all who 
Invoke your spacial patronage In lima 
of need. To you I have recourse and 
from the depth of my heart, I humbly 
bag whom God has given such power 
to come to my assistance. Help me In 
my present urgent petition. In return, 
I promise to make your nama known 
and cause you to be Involved. Say: 
lhree Our Fathers, lhree Hall Marys, 
and lhree Glorlas for nina con· 
sacutlve days. Publication must be 
promised. St. Jude pray lor us and all 
who Invoke your name. This novena 
has never been known to fall. 
ANNIEBABYI You're 21 and not a day too eoont Thanka for being my pal -I've had mar. tun with you than a pe-.on should be allowed to have and! can't walt to get REALLY NUTS on the Gull Coaatll 
low,SME 
Laura, I saw you at the movie Friday, and a rush of good memories came 10 me. I know lhe falling out was my fault, but I would love to hear from you again. 
························ 
Go Hawaiian! Logan Canter Ia holding a Hawaiian dance this Friday from 7:30-10:30. Coma over to Logan and check us our. 
MAKE $501 Trail frame frailer to Stroudsburg PA dropoll rt 60, on your way east Sp Brk call 4015, need 2" ball 
YO FAE, TOAST, BEACH, MOL·BOL, AND IMPY GEEB: Your lover/mate/spouse partnar/banafac· tor has a terminal disease which I will leave him/her without lags. Do you drive Into the woods and steal trees lor him/her?? And Toast, no matter how much "poppycock" you feed ua, there Is still "no such thing as a DEPENDS answer." Especially since lmpy refuses to dlacrlmlnala between black, while, purple, North American, or Antarctlcanll Personal· ly -no pun Intended -I owe you all an apology. I LIED when I said "YES" to the "slick up lor your absent col· league" question. It would "DEPEND" on whether he/aha deserved It or not. In which case I would be right up there with the rest of the vicious back slabbers! Let's do It again soon! ·FAE 
Tom Fahey Thank you for the belated valentine. II made my day! 
P.S. I didn't gat anything for Groun­dhog's day or Lincoln's birthday either!! Tall amphibian. 
NAN LARKIN, Seeing you makes my day! 
REINE DESROSIERS, Saalng you makes my day! 
ANA COTE, Saelng you makes my day I 
Shawn, Cliff, and AI, classllleda tag, you're It telephone !agger leave alter 
I need a ride to Milwaukee, Marquette on Friday, March 21. I can leave altar 
2. Call Margie at 284-4425. 

---------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 14 
Stevenson returns to site of last victory 
~dPrcss 
GLENDALE, Calif. -Jan Stephen­son, returning to the site ofher most recent LPGA victory, tackles what may be the toughest course on the tour in the 1250,000 GNA-Glendale Federal Classic beginning today. 
Stephenson won the tournament 
last year with a 72-hole score of 290, 
2-over-par over the venerable Oak­
mont Country Club course. 
That was the highest winning score of any LPGA tournament last year, and the only eventwon with an over-par total. It also was the first women's tournament at Oakmont. 
Stephenson took the victory with cards of 70-73-72-75 over the par­72, 6,328-yard course that opened 60 years ago. There was only one round under 70 over the tree-lined course that severly punishes mistakes, a 69 carded by Vicki Fer­gon. 
Stephenson, predictably, likes Oakmont. 
"It's nice to come back to nice thoughts," she said. "The fairways are great, the greens are ideal for putting. I expect scores to be lower this year, and I think an experienced player will win because it's a very competitive course. 
Relay 

continuedfrom page 20 
tern, wno also will be running at Na­tionals. 
Notre Dame's relay is led off by McNelis. An 800-meter runner for most ofhis career, Nobles will try to position himself at the front of the pack. 
"I'll try to use my excitement to to give me more energy running," said McNelis on his strategy for this weekend. "There's always a chance of being too pumped. I'll just try to get out and lead without killing myself." 
He will hand the baton to Nobles. Previously a 600-yard runner, Nobles ran several impressive BOO­yard races last year to crack the two­mile relay lineup. 
"I try to move us into the lead if we are behind," said Nobles. "If McNelis finishes in front, then I try to open up a bigger lead." 
This strategy bodes well for Van Wie, the third runner. 
"I like running out in front," Van Wie said. "Rob just makes things easier for me." 
Finally Tyler runs the anchor leg. The former cross country co-captain thrives on the competition and strategy ofthe last few laps. 
"I feel 1 can run with any of the competition," he said. 
IRISH ITEMS-To understand the unbelievable ability of some of the athletes racing in Oklahoma City this weekend, Piane said that the qualifying standard for the mile relay was faster than the world record time on a 200 meter indoor track...Nick Sparks, who was a part of the relay that broke the outdoor record last year, has missed the entire season due to a foot injury. 
•CMTAIE 
ITIIIIYIII 
THE "KAPIAA ADVANTAGE" DOESN"T 
HAVE TO END WITH YOUR ADMISSION TO LAW SCHOOL! 
THE SAME SKILLED INSTRUCTION THAT PREPARED YOU FOR THE LSAT. CAN GUIDE YOU THROUGH FIRST YEAR lAW' 
lmODUCTION TO LAW SCHOOL 
A~-41....-SEMINAR 
• 
CASE BRIEFING • TORTS • LEGAL WRITING 

• 
CML PROCEDURE • STATUTORY ANALYSIS 

• 
CONTRACTS • RESEARCH METHODS • PROPERTY 


~-fl 1717E.
lfiiPIAII South Bend Ave. 
IDUCA-.-.&. 272-4135 C8IYDI LTD. 

TIS1....:~SNCW..T'Ss.c:.tflll 

Thankstoyou... 
• Unltaclway itworks... forALLOFUS 
~'" 
ATIP 0' TH' HAT TO YC
i' ~ 
l RISH! 

ironwood~ liquors
~~... 7) 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD 

SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 +-------~"-&.~~----,2191 272-7144---+ 
The Competition Athletic Footwear Specialists 
6301-E University Commons Corner of SR23 and Hickory Just North of the Toll Road 
~~o\)'!\oe" 272·5488 $5 off any 
<?J~,o'~~'­ pair of Reebok shoes  
~o0~  ~o  Now through Sf. Pat's Day  
..........................,  

Long Island Bus 
SPRING BREAK 
Round trip $77 One way $50 
Bus leaves March 21 & returns Aprill 
Sign ups in LaFortune Sign ups in Lafortune Lobby 4-6 p.m. Friday, March 14th 
, ..,
. 

The Nazz Competition is coDling ••• 
A chance for student bands and musicians to compete for fame and recognition. 
On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: 
*CASHPRIZES!
*A postion in the Saturday showcase 
performance (April 5th) *A chance to play with 
MAX WEINBERG, BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN'S DRUMMER! 
Registration Is at the &ont desk of the Student Government Offices &om March 11 to March 16. 
QUESTIONS? Call Liz 283-2985 
~ 
~ 


Available Dine-In Only 

Friday night is special at Big Boyl All­you-care-to-eat of our delicious deep fried Perch, so crisp on the outside, tender and flaky inside PLUS French Fries, Lemon Wedge, Dinner Roll, Vegetable AND Soup & Salad Bar 
$399 

ND & SMCStudents & Guests 
SPRING BREAK 86' 
Party at 


I
•

the area's High Energy ClubI Thursday Mar 20 8:30-? 
86¢cover 

•86 ¢beer domestic 
•86 ¢ cocktails (bar brands) 
Miami Vice lookalike contest $50 Cash 1stprize! 
Remember Thurs April 1 0 after break suntan contest-$50 1stpriseI 
•4 C tax wfll be added to coclctal... 
, .., 
Bruce Springsteen's Drummer 
MAX WEINBERG 
wfll soon be at Notre Dame. 
Max will first show a documentary film ofthe Born in the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And finally, Max Weinberg will jam with the finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
MAX is coming Aprill2. 
.,
~ 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Board ""-~ 
L_ 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 15 


Zoeller brings high hopes, injuries to defend title at Bay Hill Classic 
A88oclated PreM 
ORLANDO, Fla. · Fuzzy Zoeller, who capped his comeback with a victory in this event a year ago, has some high hopes and a tender back as he opens defense ofhis title in the S<;OO,OOO Hertz-Bay Hill Classic. 
"I'm still learning aboUl it, still learning to Jive with it," he said of the back problems that, a year ago, threatened to end his career. 
"There's some scar tissue problems and, later on, there'll probably be some arthritis," Zoeller said before a practice round on Ar· nold Palmer's Bay Hill Club course. 
Zoeller, however, was optimistic about his chances in the chase for a J90,000 first prize here, as well as for the rest ofthe year. 
"It really helps, makes the year a lot easier, when you get off to a good, fast start," said Zoeller, a former Masters and U.S. Open cham­pion who won at Pebble Beach early this season. 
"You look at your list of(leading) money-winners. Almost all of them got off to a good start out West," Zoeller said. 
And, despite some nagging problems with the back, Fuzzy said he was optimistic about his chances in the tournament that begins today. 
"After winning here last year, I have a kind of special feeling about this tournament, this course," he said. "I have a pretty good record on this course (four finishes in the top 
I 0 in seven starts)." 
"I'm playing pretty well, hitting a lot ofgood shots. I was playing very well in Hawaii (before he was forced to withdraw). 
"And I played well last week (in the Dorai-Eastern Open). I just had · one nine-hole stretch that wasn't so good, so everybody is saying, 'Oh, you're playing bad again, huh?' 
''That's not it at all. I just wasn't making any short putts." 
Zoeller was not alone with his back problems. The tournament host, Arnold Palmer, also was having some difficulties. He said he was "not 100 percent" but would be among the invitational starting field of 114. 
) 


~·· . 
.. 
APPholo 


Fuzzy Zoeller watches his iron shot to the second green at Pebble Beach earlier this year. Zoeller will try to overcome back problems • and repeat as champion ofthe Bay Hill Classic this weekend. 

..__........,_........·991~L. 
PAUL MASSON 
ROSE, RIESLING, BLANC 
EARLY TIMES 
3 9 ~50 ML. 
TAYLOR

.11 ~~5L 
CHAMPAGNE 
4~5~ML. 

• FOOD 
• MUSIC 
• DANCING 
Gl 
,0 
" 

SENtOR"BAR SAT, M,4\RCR'-f~TH 
7PM-ZAM "," 
(NO I. D. REQUIRED l/) "-"­
"­
" " " 
__ _.:>.:;-" 
---"
--' 

A'-L pRoceEDS Go To 
KEVIN'S LONG Te:~M CAPitE 

The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 16 

l 
including corned beef sandwiches,· Irish stew&cobboge!
S5 donation----~ 
arch 17th, St. Pat's Day, 9:00PM til close ...... 
Southeast has eight teams on win streak 
BATON ROUGE, La.,-It's an excit­ing prospect for everyone, said Louisiana State University coach Dale Brown. Each ofthe eight teams here is just a six-game winning streak from the peak of college bas­ketball. 
"lbat's really not a lot of games," said Brown, who knows as well as anyone the difference between regular-season victories and tourna­ment victories. His team snapped a 10-game post-season losing streak this year in the Southeastern Confer­ence tournament -a streak dating back to the Final Four in Philadel­phia in 1981. 
Brown is one of three coaches in 
this portion of the NCAA tourna­
ment's first round who has taken a 
team to the Final Four. 
Rollie Massimino led Villanova to 
the national championship last year, 
beating Dana Kirk's Memphis State 
in the opening round of the Final 
Four. 
. It's the seventh straight cham­pionship tournament for Villanova, the fourth straight for Memphis State and Purdue, three in a row for LSU, and two in a row for Georgia Tech and Virginia Tech. 
At the other end ofthe experience 
spectrum is Marist, enrollment 
2,700, making its first NCAA tourna­
ment appearance ever, and Ball 
State, which made its only NCAA 
playoff appearance in 1981. 
Marist, the smallest school in the 
opening rounds of the Southeast 
Regional here, has the most cos­
mopolitan roster: 7-foot-3 Rik Smits 
of Eindhovan, Holland; 7-0 Rudy 
Bourgarel of Abymes, Guadeloupe; 
6-11 Miroslav Pecarski of Nova Sad, 
Yugoslavia; 6-7 Peter Krasovec of 
Budapest, Hungary, and 6-6 Alain 
Forestier ofParis. 

"We just capitalized on our assis­tant coaches having played and coached professionally in Europe," said Marist coach Matt Furjanic. "We've gotten something from Europe we can't get here -the players above 6-8." 
Marist, 19-11, meets Georgia Tech, 25-6, at 12:07 p.m. (Central) in the opener of a four-game first round. Georgia Tech wound up the regular season ranked No.6. 
Virginia Tech, 22-8, meets Vil­lanova, 22-13, at 2:37 p.m. in the second game of the afternoon ses­sion. 
Memphis State, 27-5 and ranked No.12, meets Ball State, 21-9, in the openinggame ofThursday's evening session at 7:07p.m., and Purdue, 21­7, meets LSU, 22-11, in the finale at 9:37p.m. 

Purdue coach Gene Keady won­dered what he had done to offend the NCAA computers that decide which team is playing where. "Two years ago, we had to go to Memphis State. That's fine to do it once, but I think once every 1 0 years is enough to go and play on somebody's home court," he said. 
Hrown said he sympathizes, but knows of only one way to make it truly fair: "play it on a neutral court ­Saturn." 
Each of the 64 teams in the playoffs gets S167,000 just for making it that far. The 16 that lose in the second round earn S334,000, and the eight that leave after the round of 16 take home S500,000 per team. The four losers in the Final Eight take home S668,000, and each team in the Final Four makes S835,000. 

Each participating team is re­quired to by 250 tickets for the opening rounds of the regional tournaments. Memphis State asked foe another 1,750 books of tickets, and Villanova for a minimum of 750 more. 
AP Plloto 

Georgia Tech's Mark Price heads for the basket after making a steal in a game earlier this year. Today the Yellow Jackets take on Marist to begin the drive to Dallas in the Southeast Regional. 

This new, full-time, six semester day program includes two semesters in which you will be placed in a paid position with a major Chicago corporation. You can earn over half your expenses, gain valuable management experience and have the opportunity to advance to full-time employment with your internship company. 
Your degree will be from liT, the University in the forefront of technological innovation and management. Your MBA program uniquely integrates advanced management theory and strategy. organization and operations of financial, service and manufacturing firms. 
The program is oflered in two specialties: 
• 
Information Resources Management 

• 
Operations Management 


Program begins June 1986. So act now. 
CALL OR WRITE: Ted Heagstedt Director of Full-Time MBA Programs ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY School of Business Administration 10 West 31 Street Chicago, Illinois 606t6 
liD
312/567-5140 

at 
,o, 
the United Way 
Need to show 21 ID 
f r e e Irish buffet 

Tickets ore available now! 

~ 

-~-~----------------------~---~---·---------­
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 17 
Notre Dame baseball takes on big challenges 

ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
No one can ever accuse Larry Gallo of taking the easy way out. As head coach of the Notre Dame baseball team, he schedules some of the top baseball schools in the na­tion, despite being at a recruitirtg disadvantage. 
Baseball is not considered to be a major sport at Notre Dame. The Irish home games do not draw large crowds, and there is not a great 
Into the crowd 
Fans duck as the ball flies one way and Detroit Pistons' Kelly Tripucka lands on a fan in the first 
APPhoto 

amount of money put aside for baseball scholarships. Combined
quarter of a game against the Chicago Bulls at the 
with the weather patterns in South 
Pontiac Silverdome. 
Bend, these conditions make it dif­ficult for Gallo to draw some of the 
top prospects. 
"We have to work with what we 

have, not what it could be," said 
Gallo. "When I recruit, I tell the 
players don't come here to play 
baseball, come here to be a student 
and then you can play baseball." 
Gallo takes a much different view 

ofbaseball at Notre Dame than most, 
and he is confident that he can at­
tract the kind oftalent that is capable 
ofplaying against top competition. 
"It might be a minor sport in the 

eye of the general public, but to us 
it's a major sport," said Gallo. "The 
players and I take baseball very 
seriously and believe we can com­
pete with anybody." 
Gallo believes firmly that hard 

work can make up for some of the 
talent inadequacies the Irish may 
have. The sixth year head coach 
stesses the fundamentals to make 
the most of the players' potential. 
Improvement through what he calls 
"looking beyond the next step" is his 
key philosophy. 
"You have to look past the next 

step," said Gallo. "You can't be con­
tent with where you are. It's better 
to strive ahead even if you fail, be­
cause you can learn even from 
failing. 
"The greatest reward I get from 

coaching is seeing the kido; improve. 
I try to encourage them and push 
them hard because most do not 
realize how far they can go and what 
they can attain." 
As if the level talent the Irish play 

is not enough, there is often an extra 
incentive for opposing teams to 
defeat them according to Gallo. 
"A lot ofpeople do not draw a line 

between the football and basketball 
teams and baseball. When they see 
those Fighting Irish uniforms they 
don't care whether the ball is white, 
brown or orange, they are out to 
beat Notre Dame." 
The Depauw Tigers will be out to 

defeat the Irish this weekend as 
Notre Dame travels to Greencastle 
for what they hope will be, weather 
permitting, a four game series. 
Gallo sees the series as an oppor­

tunity to try different players at dif­
ferent positions and to get a look at 
some more pitchers in game condi­
tions in preparation for some of the 
more important games coming later 
in the season. 
NFL decision doesn't affect network T.V. 
NEW YORK -The NFL's decision 

to use television replays as a limited 
officiating aid will not affect the way 
the networks telecast the games. 
That was the opinion of Terry O'Neil, the executive producer for NFL broadcasts at CBS; Chet Forte, who directs Monday Night Football for. ABC, and Ted Nathanson, the coordinating producer for NBC's pro football games. 
"Our own broadcast standards are 
more demanding than what the 
league has laid down In Its decision," 
said O'Neil, who was at the NFL 
meetings in Rancho Mirage, Calif., 
when the league decided to use 
replays on calls relating to posses­
sion and turnovers, to determine If a 
runner or receiver is in-bounds or 
has broken the plane ofthe goal line, 
and on forward and backward passes 
in the backfield. It also will be used 
on easily detectable infractions such 
as too many men on the field. 
"When there is a controversial play, we will continue to show it on replays to give the viewer the full picture. I don't foresee any dif­ference in how we cover the game because of it." 
The Observer Thursday, March 13, 1986 -page 18 
Bonny 
continuedfrom page 20 
400.425 and 413.7. She dove all her qualifying touls in eleven-dive meets. "It's easier to qualify with eleven dives," Bonny said. "You can blow a dive and still get the points. My goal this year was to qualify, but now I'd like to get into the finals of the regionals this weekend." 
In the competition, ap­proximately 40 divers will each do five dives, at which point the field will be cut to 32. The remaining divers will then finish their com­plete 11-dive program. The top eight finishers will re-do all 11 dives for placing purposes. 
Of those eight finalists, the top four in the low boards and the top six in the high boards will go on to Arkansas for the Championship. 
"11tere probably will be 2-6 divers there who will absolutely amazing," Bonny said. "They're the ones who try out for the Olympics or have dove under the very best diving coaches in the country. After them, it will be a dogpack. HI can get into the finals, I'U be very happy." 
Welsh praised Bonny for the season she had this year. 
"Her performance this year has been superior," he said. "She's re-set all our university records · low boards, high boards, dual-meets, you name it. She's had a really excel­lent year." 
Television 
continuedfrom page 20 
like we just went through. Our value would continue to deteriorate. Our ratings have gone down noticeably. 
"All ratings are down, but we are back in the pack now. The Notre Dame-Air Force football game was one of the lowest ratings game of the year, that is for all games televised on Saturdays last season. 
''People can buy spots cheap unless the ratings go up." 
So, what must Notre Dame do to keep one step ahead of the falling sports advertising demand? What is the key to Notre Dame's television future? 
Corrigan summed up the answer in a very consice, matter-of-fact formula. "Success and winning lead to higher ratings, and higher ratings lead to bigger money." 
Today, the average American may tune in to up to 10 basketball games on any given Saturday in the month of February. 
Advertisers are looking to other types of programming for their products, as Miller Brewing Co. spokesman Steve Forsyth was quoted as saying in the Feb. 24 issues of Sports Illustrated. 
"Sports programming used to be a bargain compared with prime time," said Forsyth. ''Now it's as expensive ·or more. We are using MTV, late-night shows like David Letterman and some comedy pro­gramming to reach our target au­dience." 
For these reasons, professional sports teams are likely not to find any contract raises from the net­works. Ultimately, this may lead to lower salaries for players. 
Major horse races, auto races, other post-season college football games such as the Peach and Fiesta Bowls and regular-season college football packages may fall by the wayside due to the commercial spots. 
Advertisers are simply not will­ing to pay the big bucks any more. A good example of the trend away from big time sports to other adver­tising avenues is witnessed by the car manufacturers. 
They have found that women are increasingly participating in the car b1.1ying decision, so car makers are targeting their ads for places other than televised sporting events. 



We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
coatacte, glaaaa 
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show voar I.D. and receive 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&cladlag Speclala 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage

1635 N.lronwood 
234-24002n-1161 
Martin's Shopping South of U.S. 23 Center 

··gQoweM~ fp~ oQQ or,(:ogio~~ 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolnway 232-3354 

TTENTION SENIORS: 
Senior Formal Bid Sale 
COST: $60 includes cocktail hour, dinner dance at Palmer 
WHERE: Lafortune &.LeMons Lobbies 
WHEN: March 10-14,5-7 pm March 17-20, 5-7pm 
IDltt ~tubent Artiuitits 1Snarb presents ..... 
There will be a celebration on the Fieldhouse Mall and 
111rtbau. 

in the South Dining Hal/from 12-6pm. We will have 
flarr4 14 24-hour D.J. ~, Irish hot chocolate, green lemonade, green bagels, and green donuts with green icing under outdoor tents. 
From 10-11am there will be a St. Patty~ Day Irish Runhturbau. This 5K run will begin at the Fieldhouse Mall and end flarc}Jl5 in Front ofO'Shag. The $1.00 entry fee can be paid in 
the dining halls at dinner or at the SAB offices. All finishers will receive St. Patrick~ Day T-shirts. 
There will be a St. Patrick~ Day Bash at the Stepan Center from 12-4pm. The University Food Services
hnbau. 

will cook up a special Irish menu. North Dining Hall 
flarr4 16 
will be closed. Need J.D. There will be a D.J. and free St. Patrick~ Day hats. 
From 2-11pm there will be a St. Patrick~ Day party at the Stepan Center. Relax by listening to live bandsflnnbau. (The Law and Cold Drinks), an Irish singer( John Kennedy), and the Glee Club. Come see the Irish
flarr4 17 

Dancers. Hot dogs and munchies served. Free St. Patrick~ Day hats. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Authority  
6 Daphnls and ­ 
11 "-a ~reat  
day .••  
14 Ger. submarine  
15 Biscay Ieeder  
16 FOR agcy.  
17 Site of a Bib·  
Ileal contest  
19 Emerging girl  
lor short  
20 Way to go: abbr.  
21 Equines  
22 Stop on a­ 
23 Highest degree  
24 Curves  
25 Severity  
26 Vowel  
sequence  
27 Big top Item  
28 Oneofa  
marriage trio  
29 Bestand  
Ferber  
31 Use the gray  
matter  
34 Highest peak  
lnAfr.  
37 Flower cluster  4 Safe's partner  
38 Uris novel  5 Baseballer Mel  
41 Animated  6 Part of a  
43 Kind of bread  student's day  
45 Surface  7 Stallion  
measure  8 Citrus fruits  
46 Lopolf  9 Mine outputs  
47 Hoarded  10 Lamprey  
49 Prevaricate  11 "Mood-"  
50 Mr. Lardner  12 VIbrant motion  
51 Erie for one  13 A rattling  
52 Knight or Mack  agent  
53 Ovum  18 Etul  
54 Cal. peak  22 Peruvian coin  
57 Haggard novel  23 Scot. negative  
58 Stan's  24 Bring Into  
sidekick  bondage  
59 Ga.clty  25 Alternated  
60 Aves.  as crops  ·3/13/86  
61 Apportioned 62 Castle lor one  28 Pilgrimage to Mecca:var.  39 "­the Read· lng Railroad"  48 Broadway offering  
30 Ventilating  40 Omega's cousin  51 Porter  
DOWN  32 Water barrier  41 Correctly  52 Despot  
1 Bottom line  33 Weakened  42 Sudden thrusts  54 Household  
2 Cut short  35 Winter hazard  44 Scream  member  
3 "It's later  36 Display  48 Fourth estate  55 Friend: Fr.  
than-"  Iridescence  47 -Ste. Marie  56 Comp. pt.  

SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
American Dreamer 
Friday, March 14th, 


Saturday, March 15th ~ [ $)@ 
Thursday, March 13th 
0 
7:00. 9:00. 11:00 p.m.

7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. 

Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
Campus 
-rz p.m. -Seminar, "Reconstruction of the Conective Memory as a Political Problem," Juan Rial, Kellogg Fellow, Room 131 Decio, Kell'Q.gg Institute 
~u:ri o.m. -Seminar, "The Ethics of Con­met Resolution," Prof. Joseph McGuire, Univ~:r$ly of California, Irvine, Hayes-Healy Board· Room, Sponsored by the College of Busu1ess Administration O'Neill Faculty 
Semin~r· 
*2 p.m; ,, Lecture, "Hannah Arendt on Judg­ment: Th'ct Unwritten Doctrine of Reason," Prof. Albrel!ht Wellmer, New School For Social Research-. Library Lounge, Sponsored by the Depts. of SOQology, English, Govern­
ment and Philosophy 
*3 p.m.-5K Race for Neart Lights Program, 
South Dining Hall, Spo~red by University 
Food Services 
*4 p.m. -Recital, Tim Kolrf, Graduate Violin Recital, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored 
by the Dept. of Music 
*4 p.m. -Seminar, "In Defense of Truth and 
Tradition: Catholic Traditionalism in 
America, 1964-1974," Prof. William Dinges, 
Catholic University, Library Ld_unge, Spon­
sored by the Cushwa Center American 
Catholic Studies Seminar 
*4 p.m. -Meet theComposer Program, Dr. 
James Ator, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, 
Sponsored by the Saint Mary's Music Dept. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Saint Mary's Baked Pork Chops Baked Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy Stir Fry Beef and Green Pepper Spinach Lasagna Spinach and Cheese Turnover Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTNITIES BOARD 
$1.00 

Wednesday, March 12th, 
"Hors d'oeuvre?" 
4:15 p.m. -Lecture, "The Ethics of Conflict Resolution," Prof. Joseph McGuire, Room 122 Hayes-healy Auditorium, Sponsored by the College of Business Administration O'Neil Lecture 
4:30 p.m. -Meeting, Notre Dame Accounting Association, Room 303 Cushing *5 p.m. -Creperie, Saint Mary's Clubhouse, Sponsored by the Saint mary's French Club, $.50 admission 
7 p.m. -Meeting, Overseas Development Net­work, Center for Social Concerns *7:30 p.m. -Get-Together, Spanish Club, Center for Social Concerns 
*8 p.m. -Lecture, ''The Arts and Letters Business Executive," Robert Quinn, former managing director of Solomon Brothers, Room 124 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by the Arts and Letters Business Society *8 p.m. -Lecture, "The 80s -The Second Wave," Gloria Steinem, Angela Athletic Facility, Sponsored by the Quiet Revolution: A View of Changing Values and Lifestyles, $2 *8 p.m. -Concert, Divertimento Ensemble with Dr. James Ator, Little Theatre, Spon­sored by the Saint Mary's Music Dept. *9 p.m. -Dance, D.J. "The Soundmaster," and Dance, SAB Alcohol Awareness Week, Stepan Center 
-
• 
j ' 
.~ 

I 
~ 
I 
... 
---------------------~-----~-~-------------­
S~orts 
Notre Dame relay at NCAA meet, pursues elusive all-American status 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 

They knew they would be here. Ever since the two-mile relay team broke the school outdoor track record in that event last year, they set their sights on this milestone. 
Tomorrow Notre Dame's two­mile relay team will run in the NCAA Indoor Championships. Jim McNelis, Robert Nobles, jeff Van Wie, and Jim Tyler will run against the top ten relay teams in the nation for a shot at the title of all-America. 
"I told them that back in Septem­ber," said Piane, "(that) they are very talented, and their best marks showed that they were capable of making it." 
Tomorrow the team will run in one of two preliminary races. The top three from each heat, plus the next fastest time from either heat, will run in the finals on Saturday. The top six finishers in Saturday's race will be honored with the title of all-America. 
"All-America status is what we've worked on for four years," said Nobles of the importance of this race. 
The Irish qualified for Nationals at the Terrier Classic in Boston. Their time of 7:24.84 was presumed to be the best in the nation until word came of a race in which both Auburn 

John McNelis 

and Houston Baptist ran under 7:23. Both teams will be present at tomor­row's race, as will Penn State, which many consider the team to beat. 
Piane said that it took spectacular individual performances for several of the teams to qualify. His team, however, ha5 been a model of con­sistency over the season. For ex­ample, at the Terrier Classic the splits for each runner were all within a one second spread. 
"They had a workman-like perfor­mance at Boston," he said. "No one ran out of their minds, in fact only Tyler set a personal mark in that race. 
"They did what they needed to do to get here, but their times were not close to their personal bests. They are capable of running better, and hopefully they'll do it this weekend." 
The two-mile relay ran twice prior to qualifying in Boston. At the Western Michigan relays, the foursome captured first, but their time of 7:29.8 was two seconds short ofthe qualifying standard. 
They recorded the exact same time at the lllini Classic, despite McNelis' fall on the first lap. The spill cost the team four seconds and a second place finish to Northwes­
see RELAY, page 14 

Notre Dame football telecasts cut, follows trend of decreased revenue 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

Due to the rapid expansion of cable TV and court rulings leading to decentralization of college sports telecasts, the days of only one or two games a day are seemingly gone forever. 
Notre Dame has already felt the effects of the fall in demand. For the first time in 15 years, delayed replays of Notre Dame football games will not air on television. 
TCS, a company which owned the right to these games, decided not to prepare the replays because no market exists for them. 
A glut of sports of television to­day and new advertising alter­natives like MTV have caused the advertising demand for sports events to fall considerably. 
"Sure Notre Dame has felt the ef­fects, everyone has," said Notre Dame athletic director Gene Cor­rigan. "The value of our syndicated basketball and football games is decisively lower than a few years ago. 
"There is not much that we can do about it. One option we have is to not televise at all. We could do this to try to create a great demand for our product. 
"However, everyone else will continue to broadcast, and if our teams do not win, then the demand may not rise enough for our plan to work. 
"Notre Dame sports is still desirable," he continued. "Our basketball season really helped. In 
the  right  situation  we  still  have  
good ratings."  
Notre  Dame has  its  onw  syn­ 

dicated network, TEN, through which the Irish consistently reach the public. 
"Peripherally and superficially we are syndicated with Syracuse, Pittsburgh and Boston College, but we are probably better off by ourselves," said Corrigan. 
"This year and next year we gave the networks all they could stomach. They telecasted 10 foot­ball games in 1985 and are planning to show 10 more in 1986. After next year, we are going to review the marketplace and plan accordingly. 
"We may decide not to televise anymore, to televise less or to keep the same pace. The decision will be based upon the pulse of the market and the results from the past couple of years. 
"Traditionally, Notre Dame has the highest ratings in college foot­ball. In fact, Notre Dame holds the mark for the highest single regular season game ratings in both basket­ball and football." 
The 1974 Notre Dame vs. UCLA basketball game and the Notre Dame vs. USC football game in teh early 1 970s hold the regular season record game ratings in their respec­tive sports. 
"These last five years were really bad for us," said Corrigaq. "We do not need to have five more years 
see TELEVISION, page 18 


Thursday, March 13, 1986-page 20 
. .p ............... 
____,~r_·. ,____........,. -~-~ 
-


The Observer/Drew Sandler 

Sophomore guard Mary Gavin will lead the Irish to Amarillo, Texas next week as they play in the National Women's Invitational Tournament. Marty Burns details the importance of this post­season play in his column below. 
Irish diver goes home to be in NCAA meet 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 

Andrea Bonny is going home this weekend, but she won't be taking an early vacation. Notre Dame's top diver will test the waters in the NCAA Diving Regionals starting tomorrow in her hometown of Columbus, Ohio. 
"I'm so excited," Bonny said. "My older sister is flying in for the com­petition. A lot of people I know are going to be there. I'm really excited and really nervous." 
The butterflies are understan­dable, notwithstanding the site of the competition. Neither Bonny nor Irish head coach Tim Welsh has ever been to this type of meet. For that reason, Welsh hesitates to assess Bonny's chances .. 
"We don't know what will hap-; pen," Welsh said. This is a new ex­perience for both of us. The competition is very elite, however. All the Big 10 divers will be there." 
In order to qualify for the meet, a diver must compile a certain amount of point totals. On the one­meter board, a diver needed to score 240 points in a six-dive and 390 points in an eleven-dive meet; for the three-meter dives, the point to­tals increase to 250 and 410, respectively. 
Bonny first qualified for the zone meet jan. 25 at Fordham with scores of 391.27 and 436.57 which, at the time, were school records. Bonny since re-set and re-qualified against Oral Roberts, with point totals of 
see BONNY, page 18 

ND's "other" Tournament team faces big test 
How's this for a prediction? In a post-season tourna­ment final game on March 22, Notre Dame and Duke will tip-off against each other. 
Just another one of the thousand predictions you've heard this week about the men's NCAA tournament, right? Another example of somebody who all season long couldn't tell the difference between David Rivers and St. Joseph's river now getting in the act with an emphatic and confident call, right? 
Well, wait. Don't go throwing your money down the drain of your neighbor's betting pool yet. I'm talking about the other post-season tournament in which Notre Dame is involved. It may pale in comparison to the party they're throwing in Minneapolis tonight, but the National Women's Invitational Tournament is getting set for a bash of its own beginning next week. 
And this tournament, held ~arch 20-22 in Amarillo, Texas, means as much if not more to the Notre Dame women's basketball program as the annual NCAA free­for-all means to Digger Phelps' team. 
"I think it's good to get some experience playing post­season basketball. That's the big thing," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao, whose team will be seeded No. l in the tournament. ''You know, there are a few programs in the NCAA tournament now that got their start winn­ing the NWIT. And a real immediate example is the (Notre Dame) men's team going to the NIT finals two years ago. They built upon that, and by the next year they were an NCAA tournament team." 
A rise to the elite echelon of basketball powerhouses certainly has been the ambition for the Notre Dame women's program ever since it was conceived nine years ago. The team has developed steadily since then, finishing 21-7 this season and winning the undersized North Star Conference championship for the second con­secutive season. 

Marty Burns 
Assistant Sports Editor 
But over the past two seasons the Irish have been snub­bed by the NCAA when it came to handing out invita­tions to its post-season competition. The only difference this year is that the NWIT, a less-publicized tournament similar to the current NIT in the men's division, offered Notre Dame a chance to participate. 
Although the folks in Amarillo apparently feel this competition is top-notch -a parade and several other town festivals are planned -the tournament itself is, at least financially, on a plane below their NCAA counter­part. In fact, all expenses for Notre Dame's trip reported­ly will have to come from the Notre Dame budget. This fact, however, did not faze the administration when it got the call from the NWIT committee. 
"The administration is very much behind the decision to go," said Assistant Athletic Director Brian Boulac. "The indication was that the team members wanted to go and we felt that, as far as the program goes, it would be good for development and getting respect. The women's tourney does not make much money, but it gives our team a chance to compete in post-season competition. And that was our final objective." 
For the Notre Dame women's basketball program, which has already had a great deal of money soaked into its development, the NWIT is certainly a big deal. 
As for the opening prediction, top-seeded Notre Dame might very well find itself up against rival Duke. Although the Irish must first get past U.S. International next Thursday, and then the winner of the Fresno State -Idaho contest, the Lady Blue Devils are seeded No. 2 in the other bracket and are expected to make the cham­pionship round. 
• 

Speaking of golden opportumues, a former Notre Dame quarterback will be fighting for one last shot in the NFL this summer. Blair Kiel, the 1983 graduate who had a promising but often stormy and unfulfilled career for the Irish, recently signed on with the Indianapolis Colts. 
see KIEL, page 13 




