
American-page 6 


VOL. XXI, NO. 26 ~DNESDA~ OCTOBER 1, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Reagan will meet with Soviet leader for arms accord 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, ending the diplomatic tug-of-war provoked by Moscow's arrest of an Ameri­can journalist, agreed Tuesday to meet in Iceland in I 0 days to resume the search for an arms control accord. 
The surprise summit was ar­ranged as part of a deal that brought the release Monday of Moscow correspondent Nicholas Daniloff and the expulsion Tues­day of accused Soviet spy Gen­nadiy Zakharov. Another ele­ment was a Soviet pledge to free Yuri Orlov, a prominent Soviet dissident exiled to Siberia, as well as Orlov's wife, next week. 
Hinting at the carrot that lured him away from several ap­parently inflexible public posi­tions taken in recent weeks, Reagan told reporters, "The chances are better than they've been for many years for reaching some agreement on arms reduc­tion." 
Secretary of State George Shultz said those chances in­clude "reasonable prospects" for reducing medium-range mis­siles in Europe. 
U.S. ofncials refused to call the Oct. I 1-I 2 session between Reagan and Gorbachev a sum­mit. and Shultz said the admin­istration did not expect the talks to produce the signing of a new arms accord. 
Former Polish ambassador to U. S. says we must defend freedom from communism 
By LISA DAVISON News Stat1 
Romuald Spasowski, former deputy foreign mini­ster and two time ambassador to the United States from Poland said the "kingdom of Christ should be defended as any other kingdom," in a lec­ture last night at Washington Hall. 
"I think that to defend the values which are so dear to the hearts of the free people it is necessary, if the situation arises, to defend with the use of arms," he said. "Freedom should never be taken for granted. Sometimes it must be protected, even to pay the utmost price for It," said the former communist. 
Spasowskl. who defected from Poland in 1981, said communism tries to erase our Individualism. "The essence ofcommunism Is that individ­uals don't count, only the state counts," he said. 
Spasowski described the foundation of communism as an absolute "power of state." 
"The real goal of com­munism as doctrine and as a 

But Reagan told world financial leaders a short time later at the International Monetary Fund that the October session is intended "to prepare the ground for a pro­ductive summit." 
Shultz said he still hopes a summit can take place later this year in the United States, as agreed to by Reagan and Gor­bachev last year in Geneva. The one-on-one talks in Reykjavik. the secretary said, "will give a special push" to the various talks already going on at lower levels. 
Shultz said the hurry-up meet­ing scheduled in less than two weeks in the capital of the tiny NATO island nation was pro­posed by Gorbachev in a letter delivered to Reagan on Sept. 19, which also contained the Soviet Union's latest bargaining posi­tion on proposed nuclear weap­ons reductions. 
The two sides had been carry­ing on arms control discussions at various levels while trying sep­arately to settle the case of Daniloff, whose arrest on what Reagan insisted were "trumped up" spy charges cast a pall over 
U.S. -Soviet relations and dimmed prospects for a summit this year. 
Reagan insisted he would never trade Daniloff for Zak­harov, who he said was caught red-handed trying to buy U.S. defense secrets for his govern-
see REAGAN, page 3 

Soviet state is to dominate the world," he said. "The danger of communism is to expand­-limitless expansion and also to destroy opposition inside countries like Poland.'' 

Romuald Spasowski 
· Spasowski, who converted to catholicism in 1985, said his spiritual awareness oc­curred simultaneously with his disillusionment with the Communist party. 'Td had enough of propaganda, lies, and force, all characteristics of communism," he said. 
"What happened during the war strengthened my ideas because during the war I had seen death, awful tragedies and I have connected It with the system which I lived," said Spasowskl. "So I have decided to do everything possible to change this system for a bet­ter one In which a man would be liberated from exploita­tion," he said. · 

After he defected Spasowski decided to write ~ book to fulfill his "obligation for all those who are muzzled, who cannot express them­selves and for those In isola­tion and in prisons," he said. 
Spasowski also stressed the futility of discussing military matters during summit meetings with the Soviets. "To me, it is only a gimmick and doesn't achieve anything," he said. "With the Soviets one should discuss everything, such as human rights or the economy." 
Spasowski, however, said 

capitalism means democracy. 
"This system (democracy) is 
probably the worst one, but 
the best one ever Invented. 

This is what Winston Churchill 
said, and I agree." 
ACC tickets limited for 

·· ND seniors 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
One of the four commence­ment tickets issued to some 1987 Notre Dame graduates may be for a closed-circuit telecast in an auditorium rather than for a seat in the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. 
As many as 20 percent of the graduates may receive a guest ticket for the telecast in the Cen­ter for Continuing Education auditorium, said Assistant Provost Sister John Miriam Jones. 
Because of the large graduat­ing class and the national Inter­est in University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's farewell, officials can no longer guarantee four ACC arena tickets, she said. 
If four ACC tickets cannot be issued to each graduate, a lottery will be held to determine which graduate will receive three arena tickets and which will receive four, said Jones, who heads the committee which formulated the proposal. 
Officials now estimate that 2,392 graduate and undergrad­uate students will be eligible to participate in the May 17 com­mencement exercises. If each of these graduates received four ACC tickets, a shortfall of 548 seats would exist. 
Jones, however, said "this may never come to pass." She explained that some
An unidentified student navigates her way in between Hayes­
seniors and graduate students
Healy and Hurley yesterday during one of the few times that 
may fail to qualify for a degree,
an umbrella was not needed. During the last two days fresh­
while others may decide not to 
man have been indoctrinated into the realities of South 
The Observei>'Mike May 

Walk this way 
Bend's rainy weather. 
see TICKETS, page 4 


Philippine rebel leader caught by government 
Associated Press 
MANILA Philippines -Military intelligence agents arrested the commander of the communist rebel army, and insurgent spokesman said Tuesday that peace talks with the government may be doomed unless he is freed. 
Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile said he would oppose any effort to release the prisoner, Rodolfo Salas. Enrile has said repeatedly he doubts rebel sin­cerity in negotiating with Presi­dent Corazon Aquino's govern­ment and believes they are buying time to increase their strength. 
A defense Ministry statement said intelligence agents caught Salas, 39, his wife and driver Monday night In front ofa Manila hospital where he had under­gone a medical checkup after surgery last week to remove a goiter. 
It identified Salas, also known as Commander Bilog, as chair­man of the military commission of the Communist Party of the Philippines. 
Armed forces spokesman Gen. Luis San Andres said that made him commander of the New People's Army, ·which began the insurgency In 1969 against the government of Ferdinand Marcos. The former president fled the country last February. 
No charges were specified against Salas. The statement said he had taken part . in numerous rebel attacks, includ­ing an April I 0, 1974, ambush on Bataan peninsula in which five 
U.S. navy officers were killed. 
Romeo capulong, a lawyer for the communist-dominated Na­tional Democratic Front that Is handling the rebel negotiations, said "elements in the military" were out to "scuttle the peace talks" that began In August. 
"We do not see how peace talks can proceed any further unless the three are released," capulong told a news confer-' ence. He accused the military of pressuring Aquino to restore "fascist rule." 
Enrile said: "if the NDF uses the Issue to break off negotia­tions, it's the NDF's business." 
"If they are going to ask for the release of Rodolfo Salas, must say with all candor we will raise our objection. If this is· going to be an Issue, It will pose a serious threat to our country," he said in a question-and-answer period after a speech to a civic group. 
The Observer Wednesday, October I, 1986, -page 2 


In Brief 
Despite threats of violence, not a stone was cast at a recent showing ofthe controversial film, "Hail Mary," at the University of Nebraska Civil Liberties Student Union. School officials cancelled last spring's scheduled showing, but a successful Nebraska Civil Liberties Union suit against the school over­turned the order. Film opponents held all-night prayer vigils outside the student union. -The Observer 
When 21st century inhabitants open a time capsule planted in Columbus, Ohio, they may be puzzled by its contents, as well as the choice of container. Three central Ohio sculptors buried a barrel designed for hazardous waste disposal after stuffing it with such things as Garbage Pail Kids gum, a tiger-skin bikini and buttons with slogans like "Halley's Comet is Coming." The time capsule is to be opened in 2092 to mark the 600th anniversary ofChristopher Columbus' voyage to America, according to artists Stephen canneto, Charles Einhorn and candy Watkins. Susan Bidwell and her husband, Alexander Fasules donated a check for $10 million postdated to Sept. 28, 2092 and noted on it that it is to be used for groceries. -Associated Press 
If Prince Charles and Princess Diana turn down your dinner invitation, you can still get the next best thing -their butler. The Daily Mirror reported Tuesday that the royal couple's butler, Harold Brown, is available to officiate at private func­tions for just $45. Susan Hamilton, a London society caterer who acts as Brown's agent, said Brown usually handles func­tions for "discreet city people and private households." Buck­ingham Palace said Brown was not available for interviews, but the Mirror said itcalled him posing as a prospective client. The paper quoted him as saying he readily accepted and would prefer payment in cash. Brown said he would never do anything to embarrass his employers. "I am careful about it," he was quoted as saying. "I don't go anywhere I might see their friends or anyone they know." -Associated Press 

CILA representative Dan Strub announced the club's plans to begin an aluminum can drive at last night's HPC meeting. Receptacles for the cans will be located in the residence halls, and proceeds will go to the South Bend Justice of the Peace Center. Co-chairman Joanie Cahill announced that 144 people rode the "Buzz Bus" this past weekend, a significant increase in ridership over the previous weekend. Cahill also discussed the possibility of distributing schedules and selling passes for the bus, which transports students on weekends from the five points area and the apartments to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses for 25 cents. Co-chairman Sheila O'Connor announced upcoming events, which include the Multi-Cultural Fall Festival, Oct. 6-1 L and the SAB­sponsored trip to the Morris Civic Auditorium Friday, Oct. 10, to see "Pippin." Tickets for the bus trip and musicaL which stars Ben Vereen, will cost $13.00. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"Women and the Bible," the topic of the "Issues Facing Women in the Church Series", will be discussed today at 
12: 15 p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. Speaking will be Doris Donnelly, co-director of the Center for Spirituality at Saint Mary's. The meeting is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
An Arts and Letters' London Program informational meeting will be held tonight at 7 in the Memorial Library auditorium. All interested sophomores should attend this meeting be­cause applications will be distributed. -The Observer 

Weather 
While you're eating lunch and pondering why N. B. C.'s "The Facts of Life" was renewed for another·season, the weather forecast is calling for a 60 percent chance ofshowers today with highs from 70 to 75. There will be a 50 percent chance of showers tonight and Thursday, with lows near 65 and highs near 75. 



The Observer 
Design Editor ....... Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor ... Mike Naughton Design Assistant . ... : . Chris Donnelly Accent Layout . ...... Sharon Emmite Layout Staff. ...... Katie Kronenberg Typists ............... Esther Ivory Typeseuers . ........... Michael Buc ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovac News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski SMC Day Editor . ...... Karen Webb, Copy Editor .......... Patty Censky ................... Monique Kelly Sports Copy Editor .... Sarchall Paige Photographer . ........... Mike May 

Th~ O~rv~r t l '~ "99 .! tOUtlli' puhJ.,hc:d \fllth.IJ\ throu~-th I nd.l\ ,-,..u·pt duflll).!. c.·xtun 4lOJ \de. arum pt'floc.h The Observer" puhll,hnlln the ,tuJt·llt-• olthc: I Ill\ c·r..,ll\ ut :\utrt" l>amc .md "'+,um \t.d.J"\ ' ( ollrJ(r '-luh"" nptum.., lllJ\ he.· pun hd't·d lor S~~~ 1wr \t".tr t 1.!0 pt"r ,t·mr,lt'f ~ h' \\Ttl Ill)( The Observer. P t) Box t} '\nlrt· I>JnH: lndiJfl,l 
tl.~-;h 
Tbt-ObH-rvt"r J"~ J mt·mht·r ot The A~"'oc:la1ed Prt'."'·"'· \ll rt·prqlJIH. lion n~tu ...tr' 

re~·'"\CU 

Devoted journalism teacher instilled values in students 
My high school journalism teacher died the other day. I know that may not mean much to many people here, but it meant ~ great deal to me. 
Mr. Hechler, as I always have called him and will continue to do so out of respect Uournallsts are rarely supposed to call anyoneMr. anything in a story or column), taught me a great deal in the five years I was Involved with my school newspaper at Holy Cross School In New Orleans. He taught me about journalism and also about hard work. Usually the two went together. 

To say that Mr. Hechler worked too much would be an understatement; he held at least four jobs that I can remember and always seemed to excel at each of them. He was a good PR man and a particularly talented journalist. Everyone agreed that he could easily have left our high school for more verdant pastures, however he chose to stay. Mr.Hechler. was a person who sincerely cared about the people and students with whom he worked. 
I can still vividly picture Mr. Hechler sitting be­hind his office desk nervously plucking at his moustache while talking on the telephone. As he was conversing with the person on the other end of the line, he was also trying to spout off orders to the harried hoard of journalism students crowded around his desk awaiting some task to perform just so that they would be able to legally roam the halls. Also indelible from this scene is Mr. Hechler's omnipresent dietetic food. 
Because he was always fighting a weight prob­lem, Mr. Hechler kept most ofthe major and minor fad diets of the past decade in business for about two weeks longer than they should nave been. Whenever there was a new powder, pill or formula out on the market that promised to take off enough weight in five days to enable one to eat a ten-thousand calorie meal at a nice restaurant the next weekend, Mr. Hechler was sure to have it in his office. Over the five years that I worked with him, I saw more carrot sticks and powdered chocolate drink mixes pass through that office than I have seen loaves of stale bread in the dining hall. 
Mr. Hechler also enjoyed travelling a great deal. There were many times that I believed his sole purpose for working so much was the couple of weeks he would get to spend in New York or on a cruise ship each year. Mr. Hechler saw a lot of plays, drove a nice car and treated himself rather 
• well. Not a bad way to live. When I heard that Mr. Hechler died a couple weeks ago, I honestly did not know how to react. He was not a particularly old man; in fact he was quite young -younger than my father. He had never been ill and always had a vitality about him, a spark of fun that so many people lack in their lives. I did not get very upset since I had not seen him in almost two years, but I did feel a little empty inside. 
I guess it's hard to explain the relationship I had with Mr. Hechler. He had been my teacher 
Kevin Becker 
Managing Editor 

and advisor for five years, but I thought of him as more than that. He taught me how to write news, sports and feature stories. He taught me the power of a good editorial and the necessity of good journalism. He also taught me that when you take responsibility for something. you have to follow through with it; there were many nights when I stayed up very late just to make sure that our paper got out. 
Mr. Hechler was important to me; he molded much of me. I guess the best way to describe how I felt when I heard of Mr. Hechler's death is to compare it to how one might feel if a great football coach or teacher passed away who was also a friend and to whom one felt a great debt. There is not a lot of pain, just a great deal of emptiness. 
That is the way it is with many people we meet in life. We appreciate them for who they are and what they do, and then we move on. There is so much that I owe to Mr. Hechler, so much that he has done for me. But now that I know he is gone, I can only be thankful that I knew him as a teacher and considered him a friend. 
For me, the memory that I have of Mr. Hechler will always be carried in my thoughts and in my actions. Every inch of newsprint that I produce will carry his stamp. As for the students at Holy Cross School who will have to learn journalism and produce a newspaper without his supervision, it is by them that he should and sorely will be missed. 

' 
0

t> OCTOBEB. 3, 4 & S c 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday DinnerSpecials Small gronndbeefWet Burrito and Frozen Margarita 
$3.00 Children's Special 
Small gronndbeefWet Burrito and a Coke 


$2.00 

Saturday Special KELLY'SALL NEW 
Irish Prime Rib ( 10 oz.) 
Baked Potato, Salad, Roll 
and a Frozen Margarita 


$8.98 

Prices good October 3, 4, B. 
AI.L WEEKEND-FROZENMAB.GAB.ITAS $1.80 






~1~1(£t_L_y:S 
MEXICAN · IRISH CAFE 
119 N. MICHIGAN • DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND • ( 219) 234-5389 


The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1986, -page 3 
Couple steals $255,599 from 10-year-old quadriplegic son 
Associated Press week the primary motivation be­
hind the divorce "was to put dis­
CROWN POINT, Ind. -The wed­tance between him and his wife ding was straight from the pages regarding this case." of True Detective, not Modern The couple appeared before Bride. Lake County Court Commis­
The bride will be honeymoon­sioner T. Edward Page on Mon­ing without the groom at the day to seek an early release for Westville Correctional Center. Mrs. Dozier. The man who sent the bride to Dozier, holding his handi­prison was also the one who per­capped son, asked Page to free formed the ceremony. his wife and let him go to jail so 
Fred and Lottie Dozier of High­she could care for the boy, also land were charged with theft after named Fred, and the couple's 2­authorities learned they had year-old daughter, Tina. stolen $255,599 from a trust Page denied the request. He fund set up to benefit their I 0-said the couple deservedjail time year-old quadriplegic son. for the theft of money destined 
Court records show the couple to support the boy once they spent money from the fund, were incapable of supporting awarded in a medical malprac­him. tice settlement, on a new car, a "Just because they have a cruise, gambling in Las Vegas handicapped son does not mean and other forms of entertain­they should live in a shack or ment. bicycle to the store for 
Mrs. Dozier, 38, pleaded guilty groceries," Page said. "Neither 
July 11 to theft and was sen­does it mean Siberian Huskies, tenced Aug. 1 1 to one year in gambling in Las Vegas and prison. jewelry." 
Dozier, an unemployed steel­The boy was awarded worker, pleaded guilty to theft $5"00, 000 in 1980 in a malprac­last Friday and was sentenced to tice settlement following an op­two years in prison. eration that left him a quad­
Dozier will begin serving the riplegic. term Feb. 13, one week after his Page did not. however, deny wife's scheduled release. the couple's request to be 
The Doziers filed for divorce in remarried Monday. He waived April after the charges were the usual blood test and waiting lodged against them. Dozier's at­period, and performed the cere­torney, John Halcarz, said this mony on the spot. 
release and Zakharov's expul­sion. 
The United States had con­


Reagan 
tended the 25 people It told the Soviets it wanted out of the

continuedfrom page one 
United Nations were all intelli­ment. But Shultz and Soviet gence agents. Foreign Minister Eduard Although neither side would Shevardnadze, In several hours say flatly during the diplomatic of closed-door meetings in showdown that there could be no Washington and New York. summit while Danlloff was con­worked out the package deal that fined in Moscow, Shultz said gave both sides what they Tuesday, "I don't think one could wanted most -with just enough have had a fruitful summit with­face-saving provisions to enable out these matters being settled." both to claim victory. And as soon as they were, 
Reagan, for instance, insisted Reagan immediately tooka more Tuesday that "there was no con­conciliatory stand toward the nection" between Daniloffs Soviets. 



Shultz tell senators not to override Reagan's aparthied sanctions veto 
Associated Press defeat on Capitol Hill. weight because the United States 
Senate Majority Leader Bob has relations with 172 nations, 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of Dole, R-Kan., convened the and "our policy toward South State George Shultz told Repub­meeting with Shultz in his Capitol Africa should not be a driving lican senators Tuesday that a Hill office in the aftermath of the force" in talks with the Soviet vote to override President overwhelming 313-83 House Union. Reagan's veto of South African vote Monday to override the "I don't think he found too sanctions would undercut Reagan veto. sympathetic an ear from the nine Reagan's ability to negotiate with "The president should obvi­to 1 0 of us who were present," Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. ously make every effort to sus­Grassley said. 
tain the veto," Dole told When asked if Shultz had 
The White House, fighting to reporters. "The president is not changed any votes, Grassley save the administration's policy going to give up on this easily." replied, "No!" of moving slowly on attempts to Reagan said he would impose punish the white-minority gov­"I asked my colleagues to hold by executive order a ban on new ernment for its policy of apar­their fire and give the president U.S. investments to all South theid, also announced Reagan is an opportunity to visit with African companies except those naming career diplomat Edward them," Dole said. "I believe the owned by blacks. ban the import Perkins. 58, to be the first black veto ought to be sustained." of South African iron and steel, American ambassador to But in responding to ques­ban U.S. bank accounts for the Pretoria. tions, Dole said the battle South African government or its 
remains an uphill one. "He may agencies, review ways to reduce 
Perkins has been serving as lose," Dole said of Reagan. U.S. dependence on strategic 
U.S. ambassador to Liberia. He Dole said Shultz told the group minerals from South Africa and would succeed Ambassador Her­of nine to 10 Republican law­provide $25 million in U.S. aid man Nickel in Pretoria when con­makers it "wouldn't be of any to disadvantaged South Africans. firmed by the Senate. help to the president when he In contrast, the legislation 
Shultz's appeal for votes to sits down with Mr. Gorbachev to passed by Congress would ban sustain Reagan's veto of tough have been clobbered by the all new investments and all new legislative sanctions against P.W. Congress on a foreign policy bank loans, end landing rights Botha's government. and the issue." in the United States for South Perkins appointment. seemed to Sen. Charles Grassley, R-lowa, African aircraft, and ban the im­have been coupled with Reagan's one of the participants in the port not only of South African offer Monday to issue new but meeting, said Shultz made "a iron and steel but also coal, tex­limited sanctions against South very strong pitch that the presi­tiles, uranium, arms, food and Africa by executive order. dent's veto ought to be sus­agricultural products. It also 
It all was part of a campaign tained" and clearly linked the would bar the export of petro­by the administration to win the override vote with the leum products to South Africa votes needed to sustain the veto Reagan-Gorbachev meeting. and award the South African in the Senate and stave off an But the senator said he didn't sugar import quota to the Philip­embarrassing foreign policy think the argument has much pines. 
PHONE


HOME 

for Less 
Want to tell your folks in Fargo about yourfine grades in French? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 

Want to tell your sister in Scarsdale about studying Spencer? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Want to tell your girl in Galveston about going goofy without her? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Any time you pick up the phone and dial up Clark long distance, you'll dial up savings. Because Clark quality long distance costs less...S% less than AT&T for comparable calls. 

So make your first call acall to Clark's on-campus representative at 283-4150. Or visit our office in Room G89, Memorial Ubrary. And phone home...for less. 
~ 

CLqRKTELE

COMMUNICATIONS, INC 

Want to tell your buddy in Boise about the big ballgame? 


The Observer Wednesday, October I, 1986, -page 4 


Parietals revision discussed by Programming Board 
By TRIPP BALTZ AND GREG LUCAS 
News Staff 
Debate continued over the proposed revision of parietals at Saint Mary's College at Tuesday night's Programming Board meeting. 
The issue will be voted upon next week at a joint meeting of the Programming Board and the Board ofGovernance. Student Government Presi­dent Jeanne Heiler said the passage of the plan at the meeting will only be possible "if we can present a valid need" for such a measure to be taken. 
The resolution calls for the elimination of taking visiting men's student IDs at the front desks of the halls. Sue Miller, student government secre­tary, said the resolution didn't seem to be saying much, as it was only taking IDs. Men would still be required to be escorted at ail times. 

Tickets 
continuedfrom page one 
participate in the ceremony. If 
enough do not attend, then 
everyone could get four ACC tick­
ets. 
Jones said the possibile shortfall could be eliminated if graduates accepted only the tick­ets they needed. "If you need two, then take two," she said. 
Jones said she and several ad­ministrators met Tuesday to dis­cuss the potential shortfall with representatives of the Senior Class, Graduate Student Union, Law School and MBA program, as well Student Body President Mike Switek. 
Switek, a senior, said he couldn't "really be angry'' with the proposal. "It's not their fault that this is Father Ted's (Hesburgh's) last year and every­one and their mother wants to be there," he said. 
Switek added that administra­tors are open to other proposals. "They're looking for the best pos­sible method to do it," he said. 
Switek said Senior Class Pres­ident David Miklos Is looking into other proposals. 
Attempts to reach Miklos at home Tuesday night were unsuc­cessful. 
Jones said administrators had anticipated the shortfall for several years and had been plan­ning for it since last semester. 
Last year's commencement ex­ercises were shown in the CCE as "a bit of a test run" for this year, she said. About 400 viewed the closed-circuit telecast. 
By combining the CCE auditorium with monitors in other rooms, officials estimate between I.000 and 2, 000 people could watch the commencement by closed circuit this year. 
The proposal calls for losers In the lottery to be issued tickets for the CCE auditorium seats. Others wishing to see the closed­circuit telecast will be accom­modated on a first-come, first-
r----FREE!-----, 
I REGULAR RAX®Iwrrn PURcHAsE oF 1REGdLAR FRIES AND I MEDIUM DRINK
1Our famous Rax roast beef, sliced 1thin, piled high, and served on a 1 se5ame-seed roll . 
•
I=:=-~~";:"'...'7.'~ =~.;.!:...­
1with ilny olher Rax olfer. ater good at participating IRax Reotau...,t&. V20 cent cash n!demption value 
"'1985 Rax Restauronta, Inc.




L________ _ 
This means the RAs would have to check to see that the men are out of the dorms, said Lisa Lawler, Traditional Events Commissioner. "The RAs at Notre Dame have that job and it works there, doesn't it?" said Lawler. 
Jeanne Heiler added "It seemed that more people were against the policy on the Board of Governance than on the Programming Board." 
In other business, Student Body Vice President Sara Cook, who chaired the meet­ing, announced that Richard Chlebek. Director of Security, said a light will be placed on 
U.S. .31 N in front of the main entrance of the college. The light will be a warning to motorists that pedestrians are crossing the intersection, ac­cording to Cook. 
Cook also announced that Student Government will sponsor a showing of the film "The Color Purple" Oct. 2 and .3. 
served basis. Parents will be notified of this arrangement by letter. 
Jones said ail graduates, in­cluding advanced students, would be be treated equally. 
However, Jones said she wasn't sure whether those receiv­ing one CCE ticket would get bet­ter ACC seats than those receiv­ing four arena tickets. "We need to get together and sort that out equitably," said Jones. 
212-0312 

Get in on the action! 

is looking for dedicated students wanting to get involved in college journalism. Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Day Editor Copy Editor 
Applications are due by Friday. Contact Mark Pankowski, Tripp Baltz or Lynne Strand at 239-5313 or come up to the Observer office on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 



Fugitive from tri-state crime spree believed at large in Missouri town 
Associated Press 
WRIGHT CITY, Mo. -Shaven fa­cial hair flecked with particles of paint led authorities to suspect Tuesday that a fugitive wanted in a three-state crime spree was still near this small eastern Mis­souri town. 
Michael Wayne Jackson, 4 I, had gray paint in his thick beard Sept. 22 when he allegedly shot a federal probation officer and store clerk In Indianapolis, then embarked on a series of abduc­tions and auto thefts that ended near Wright City. A third man was killed near here. Jackson was last seen running from a disabled stolen car near here that night. 
The hair, found Sunday in a burglarized trailer home outside town, is the only link-authorities have obtained In the search for the former mental patient, who has said he would not be taken alive. 
"We're treating It as a very good lead," Highway Patrol Sgt. Walter Ryan said Tuesday. 
The owner of the trailer told pollee It was broken into some­time between Thursday and Sun­day. Officers found used dis­posable razors, hair, fingerprints and evidence that someone had eaten soup, authorities said. That frt a theory that Jackson was hungry after days on the run and tried to alter his appearance. The fingerprints were too smudged for an Identification. 
Ryan said laboratory tests on the hair discovered a substance used in metallic paint. While aut­

ofthe Castle 
277-1691 


horities are not saying the tests prove conclusively that Jackson was in the trailer, they say it is a strong possibility. 
"It's encouraged us that he is still in the area," said Highway Patrol Cpl. Norbert Weidenben­ner. 
After a week of hunting Jack­son, police have run down a number of empty leads. 
The latest came Monday, when a police raid on a vacant house in the middle of town produced no trace of Jackson. Blood­hounds had led authorities to the house from the trailer where the hair was found. 
Later Monday, authorities reduced the manhunt to 24 searchers from a high of about 100 and removed roadblocks in and around town. 
Weidenbenner said residents ofthe area appear to be less fear­


Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 
4219 Grape Road 277-6403 
211 


Thursday & Friday 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2om Thursday 
9pm -3om Friday 
----------.----------~------­
$1.00 off entrance fee 259-1900 
ful than a week ago, when many locked their doors and armed themselves. He said authorities were receiving fewer reports of prowlers or suspicious noises. 
"They're not quite as nervous or they're using a little more dis­cretion before calling in," he said. 
Authorities believe Jackson was wounded during a shootout with police here on the evening of Sept. 22. But the evidence that he may have shaved and eaten in the trailer altered the assess­ment of his injuries. 
"We're still believing that he's injured, probably not as serious as we thought at one time," Weidenbenner said. 
Weidenbenner said police are wondering how he could have survived unnoticed for so long in ·the rural hills of the region. 
---~ -~----~ 




"ieVV~_O_i_D__t__~---------we-dnes~da~~octo~ber~l,1~986.~-pa~ges 
Caring tradition can extend past graduation 

We have a tradition here at ND, a special tradition--something that other schools don't seem to have, we've been told. Many of us have been here for four years now and have continuously heard about the elusive spirit that makes ND "different," but have we realized what it is, what really is special here? No one will deny that there are a lot of special things around-­the annual Emil parade, the grotto, foot­bail games and dorm masses, even the rules here are "special." 
Erica Dahi-Bredine 
guest column 
But what is at the root of this special quality? As we look around in search of, we can see the common denominator everywhere; it's the caring and serving that ND people are taught and encour­aged to care in a way that they aren't at most places. It's something most of us here have been exposed to ail along-in grade school religion class, youth groups, sermons; something that we all subconsciously accept as part of the creed we profess. But at ND the caring is much more than a theology; here it has become very much a living thing. To serve 

Sarabando's article was overexaggerated 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in regard to Lou Sarabando's opinion in a recent View­point column. He felt that the consump­tion of alchohol is abused at SYR's. He implied that an SYR is nothing more than an excuse to become intoxicated. We have no qualms with him expr~ssing his opinion. Freedom of thought and its ex­pression are encouraged at this univer­sity. 
We are, however, troubled with your exaggerations and generalizations of what transpires at an SYR. It seems to us that you are basing your statements on your attendance and obsevations on past SYRs. It is strange , however, that none of us remember your attending a Fisher SYR. You surely could not have based your article on our last SYR because you chose not to attend. 5o if you have atten­ded a recent SYR. please accept our apol­ogy for our forgetfulness. Besides, you were probably in your room with your 
Doonesbury 
because we care has become a part of many of our lives here. Just look around at all of it that goes on: Saturday morn­ings at Logan Center, weekday tutoring, dinners with little "brothers" and "sisters," fasting for world hunger -we have been committed to care at least for our four years here. 
Now after all this time Seniors, we are preparing to leave this place which tends not to be so caring. Already we've prob­ably all had a task of it -the corporations and graduate schools don't go out of their way to care about us, the race of apart­
ment hunting and job seeking won't be a caring one. What will we do without all the care we've grown used to? Somehow we simply accept the fact that after these four years we have no choice but to stand tall, take a deep breath, and plunge out into this world that doesn't have the room for caring in It that we've found here. We feel that it's time to get serious about life now, to stop dreaming and to leave the comfort and college "idealism" behind. 
Does this all really have to be true 
thougn? 
There must be a way we can keep up the caring tradition, a way to put that idealism to use even after we've gone from here. We've discussed and heard about peace and love andjustice in many different ways for four years here-doesn't it all mean something? Now is the time to realize that yes, it does. We do have options and there are ways for us to keep on caring and serving long after gradua­tion, even in the midst of an often uncar­ing world. Certainly we'll all admit to the value of service and caring and to the 
"There must be a way we can keep up the caring tradition, a way to put that idealism to use even after we've gone from here." 
very human desire to help others, but aren't we all somewhat reluctant to make that personal committment to any kind of real service? Or maybe we haven't even realized that service can be much more than something to do in our spare 'time. On Thursday, October 2 from 12:00 ­
4:00 p.m., the Center for Social Concerns will sponsor the second annual Post­Graduate Opportunities Day to help seniors learn about some of these op­tions. Representatives from service or­ganizaions including the Jesuit Volunteer 



P.O.BoxQ 
companion because you were too embar­rassed by the actions of us, "the drunks at every corner." 
One purpose of an SYR is to promote the responsible consumption of alcohol within a social setting. Granted, some people do abuse the opportunity to drink in excess. But to make a statement that people go to SYRs to trash the dorm and vomit in the bathroom is totally ludicrous. You are making a ridiculous generaliza­tion. You are being grossly misled if you believe that people go to SYRs to act like "Class A Jerks." Once again, you are taking the actions of a few and applying them to the whole group. 
It weems to us that your are condoning non-alcoholic events at this university. It is odd, however, that you do not attend any section football games or section meetings, neither at which alcohol is served. You qualify your abscince from SYRs as resulting from the abuse of al­cohol. What is your excuse, however for not attending the section non-alcoholic events? 
The Fisher SYR was held Friday the 19th and the evening went well. Everybody seemed to enjoy themselves. The SYR was far from being an event that promoted the trashing of hallways and the throwing of food. Where or how you obtained the idea that SYRs facilitate such actions is unknown to us. Maybe you will attend our next SYR so that the truth will 
be exposed to you. 
Jose Vithayathil Jim Lipsmire 
Greg Gibbons Paul Semo Timothy Dearborn John Boehme Anthony Eugeni Arne Thomas Greg Tatum Kevin Cullen Tim Irvine Faris Nijim Fisher /fall 
Maintenance director very quick to respond 
Dear Editor: 
On Friday, September 26, The Observer printed a letter of mine addressed to Mr. John A. Moorman, Director of Mainte­nance, concerning the pot-hole in D-2 parking lot. The letter was dated Septem­ber 9, 1986. ~ Here is Mr. Moorman's response, dated September 17, 1986. 
Garry Trudeau 
INA 
MIN_IJTE., 
SENOR. Wt'R& 
PLAYING 
PING-~ 
PONG. 

Corps, Peace Corps, Covenant House, Holy Cross Associates, and many more will be here to provide us with information on how to keep on caring, and how we can spend year or two in some type of post-gradutate service. 
It's a way of extending the Notre Dame tradition to other parts of the world, to take a part of what's special here with us when we leave and put It to use. 
Adding this information to the senior list ofoptions can open quite a few doors, maybe very unexpected doors. As Seniors we seem to feel that we're entering a timed race now--that we've got so long 
to finish graa scnoo1, JUSl· su mucn ume to get our careers going. We fail to realize that we do have a life time now, that this is only the beginning, and what better way to start out than by continuing the ND tradition? A year or maybe two of volunteer service may be just what we need to give our lives and careers the direction and shape they need. At any rate it is worth some serious considera­tion. After four years we owe It to Notre Dame and the special lessons we've been taught here to give some real thought to what service is ali about and what It means to care for life. Erica Dahl-Bredine is a senior in the col­lege of Art & Letters. 
Dear John: Thank you for your letter regarding the pot-holes in D-2 Parking lot The holes are now in the process of being repaired. Sincerely yours, 
J. Moorman Director of Maintenance 

When I was last in D-2 on Thursday, all of the major pot-holes were filled. On be­half of all D-2 users, I would like to thank Mr. Moorman for his quick response. 
John Gardiner Stanford /fall 

Viewpoint P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 
46556 

j 
Quote of the day 
"You can think, ~· talk and act yourself into dullness or into monotony or into unhappiness. By the same process you can build up inspiration, excitement and a surging depth of joy." 
Norman Vincent Peale 
50 I JUSTIA/IU.KEDOUT 7H/3. [)()(JR. 0/0N'T G/V£3 IT A 5EaJNI? THOUGHT. 
I GUE$5/TMUSTHAVt f3f£N A LiJNG TIMe 
l'M50RRY 
TOeAR6!3-IN AT51/0fAN UNGOOLY 
REV, 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief.. ................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . •........ James Carroll sit~ ~f Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan pollc1es of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~--­
Accent 

Wednesday, October 1, 1986, -page 6 

merican! 
Students in other lands 




international terrorism and a 
sense general hostility towards 
America kept many of their 
countrymen at home. 
During the Libyan crisis, anti­American protests in Italy be­came a focal point of world at­tention. But those students in Italy who did experience hostility felt it more indirectly. While leaving a church in Northern Italy after a tour, members of the Saint Mary's Rome program wit­nessed a protest. 
Saint Mary'sjuniorAngie Leahy describes the protestors as being anti-American and demonstrat­ing against what they viewed as President Reagan attempting to build an empire. 
"Italians supported America," Leahy states, "but they said ifwe did anything we should have done it rightand killed Ghadaffi." 
Heather Cornwell, a Saint Mary'sjunior who was also in the Rome program, feels that there wasn't as much anti-American sentiment as a move for "pro­peace." 
"There was some derogatory graffiti, but that was assumed to be more from the exceptional, not the norm," she comments. 
The group was warned not to spend long periods of time in places known to attract people from the United States, such as American movie theaters or McDonald's which even posted armed guards. 
"The chain reaction of events made you throw away your Nike sneakers for things that wouldn't remarKs Cornwell. "I didn't go home early, because I didn't feel in danger. Everyone was leaving it up to me. Our director wasn't worried for our safety, and we trusted her judgement." 
Joanie Long was one ofseveral students did leave Rome about two weeks early. "I felt safe with the Rome program, but everyone feels that way until it happens. You could be in the wrong place at the wrong time, and you'd never know when that would be," Long comments, "I don't feel like 
• I missed anything (by leaving early), and everyone in the pro­gram gave us support." In the Innsbruck program Four Notre Dame students came into direct conflict with a Libyan stu­dent who lived in their dormitory. Although the four were tempo­rarily relocated to other places of residence, the situation even­tually calmed, and there was never any physical violence di­rected at the Americans. Notre Damejunior Lisa Abbott, one of the four who temporarily left the dorm, states that she never felt directly threatened by the Libyan. "He was known to be extremely loyal to Libya, and known to make derogatory remarks about non-Americans and, around the time of the crisi.sr to Americans in general, but 11\! never made direct threats to Americans in the dorm." 
Abbott reports that although she was never mistreated in any way by Austrians, the majority of them were against America's ac­tions. "What angered them the most was that they felt they were being treated as children," she says, "Reagan would listen to them, nod his head, and turn around and do exactly what he said he'd do." 
Joe Marx; a Notre Damejunior who was also in lnnsbruck, also recognizes this _ problem, "Americans should at least try to listen more to Europeans and thereby gain (their) respect. They don't like being treated as in­ferior." 
During the Libyan cns1s, Americans often found it difficult to understand why Europe wasn't giving the United States more support. Marx attributes this to an error in American's picture of Europe. "There is no central unity in Europe as in America, and that can obviously be attrib­uted to the vast number of cul­tures," claims Marx, "Europe is not a homogenous unit, and be­cause of this Europeans work for their own countries. This Is per­ceived as being something anti­American, but it's really self in­terest. 
One student who spent last se­mester abroad did encounter physical hostility. Notre Dame senior Alice Groner, who was in the London program, was riding the subway one day when a man sitting across from her told her to turn down her Walkman, but she didn't hear him at first. He then struck Groner on her knee, causing her to ask what his prob­lem was. "He picked me up by my hair and threw me against the door and yelled 'You Americans think you can come over here and walk all over us,' "she says, "What made me mad­dest is that nobody would do anything about it. They just watched." 
Groner states that there were generally a lot of anti-American feelings in London and that the Libyan bombing compounded the problem. "I was the only one who was phyically attacked for being an American, but other 
KATHY SCARBECK 
features writer 
Many students who spent time abroad last semester brought back more than just Hard Rock Cafe t-shirts or Oktoberfest beer mugs. Members of the various Notre Dame and Saint Mary's foreign studies programs returned with memories of what it was like to be out of their country at a time when fear of say, 'Hey, I'm American,' " says Joanie Long, anotherjunior who was in Rome. 
Because of the tenseness of the situation in Rome, the stu­dents were given the option of returning early to the United States and finishing classes here. 
At the beginning we weren't sure ifLibya would go out ofcon­trol with its actions, but after that I wasn't really scared at all," people were verbally," she says. 

Some students question the 
way In which the American media 
covered incidents of terrorist vio­
lence. Junior Mike Jones, who 
was in the Angers program, feels 
that events which occured 
abroad were "much more blown 
up" in America. 

There certainly was cause to 
worry," Jones admits, ,"Fifteen 
people were killed, but that was 
out of the millions who have 
gone over. Granted that's fifteen 
more than there should have 
been, but it wasn't as dangerous 
as Americans thought. 

Being abroad gave students the opportunity to distance themselves from how the Libyan situation was being perceived in America. Because members of the Saint Mary's Ireland program didn't have television sets in their homes, they were at a disadvan­tage in receiving the immediate information which. most Americans take for granted. 
"We were surprised to hear sta­tistics that the vast majority of Americans supported Reagan's actions," says Saint Mary'sjunior Joan Everett, "We began to view America's actions differently. They were so extreme... America looked like a new country wan­ting to change things overnight." 
Students in other parts of the world also witnessed reactions to 

While studying In Austria, Notre 

the Libyan crisis. Joe Mazzone, a Notre Dame senior who studied in Jerusalem, says that he was really in no danger while abroad. "lsralles have nothing against Americans. Palestinians on the whole are just warm, inviting people," he says. According to Mazzone, the Jews and lsraelies support U.S. action against Libya, but the Arabs did not: "They didn't understand the U.S. always talking about peace. Reagan was as hard to under­stand as Ghadaffi," Mazzone states. 
Clarice Keizer, a senior in the Cairo program last year, reports 

most of the people there were supportive of the action taken by America against Libya. "(Egyptians) thought someone needed to do it, and they were glad that they didn't have to," she says. 
According to Keizer, safety during the Libyan crisis really wasn't a major concern. "I felt totally safe in Cairo," she states, "The media In Cairo were limited. It made us not worry about anything, because we didn't know what was going on until after the fact." 
The situation in Mexico was much like that in Europe, as 

Highh 
MARY REYNOLDS 
features writer 

It's a sunny afternoon. On a farm 20 minutes from campus in Granger a group takes an af­ternoon horseback riding les­son. 
An ordinary scene? Yes, except for one thing. The riders are par­ticipants in the Reins of Life pro­gram, a program of therapeutic horseback riding for the physi­cally and mentally handicapped. 
"The main purpose of the pro­gram is to teach horseback riding to handicapped people as a form of both physical and recreational therapy," said Susan Mueller, volunteer coord­inator for the program. 
According to Mueller, students
The Obeenrer/Bob Jonea 

in the program range in age from
Children learn to groom and feed the horses•.. 

five to 48 and are either physi­
Wednesday, October I, 1986, -page 7 
Author King has 'It' 
For more than a year following Denbrough, now an adult.
P. A. CIMINO 

features writer the incident, Derry was the site Denbrough has become a fa­of numerous murders and mys­mous horror writer from the 
He has been called the "Master terious disappearances. In the Northeast, suspiciously similar of Horror" by his readers, but no novel, the stories of these events to King himself. King uses flash­matter what he is called one are interspersed with revealing backs to detail the first meeting thing is certain: Stephen King is character anecdotes of Bill of these characters during their an extremely popular writer. This Denbrough and his childhood childhood as well as their adven­success may be attributed to companions who banded to­tures during 1957-'58. King's exciting writing style, gether in 1958 to stop the The beauty of these characters which is virtually unmatchable. menace of "It." As kids are wont is that they seem to be alive. King is also prolific; he usually to do, this group forms an al­Each one has his or her own publishes more than one work liance (in blood, of course), and quirks and strengths which dis­every year. each member promises to return tinguish them from all others. 
to Derry ifthe terror ever returns. King's characters are so life-like that they almost jump off the page. Needless to say, this style 
It Books 

makes for extremely interesting reading. Despite its length, "It" moves swiftly and is hard to put
by Stephen King 

down. 
The Oboerver/P•ul E. Oeachger 

me student Joe Marx learned about being an American 
many people were strongly Notre Dame junior Paul Flynn, against the bombing of Libya. who was in the Tokyo program, According to Notre Dame senior recounts a similar division of Tom Hardiman, who was in the opinion among the Japanese. Mexico City program, many "Older people supported people supported America's ac­America and thought that tions while others demonstrated America had made some sort of against them. Rocks were thrown attempt to prevent terrorism," at the American embassy, and at Flynn says, "The younger people one point there were one questioned how strongly Libya hundred guards posted in front was linked to world terrorism." of it. Flynn sympathizes with 
"The Mexican press was pro­Americans who didn't want to American," Hardiman says re­travel to Europe because of the garding the bombing, "Tojustify terrorism: "It's like people on a the act, it said that in the thirteen beach who know a shark might days before it there had been ten be there, and they're afraid to go terrorist actions." in, even if they can't see it." 
the saddle 
cally or mentally handicapped. special hors~s. They're very Because riding is a form of physi­docile and well-trained," said cal therapy, participants must be Lanphere. referred by a physician. 
In addition to learning how to 

"Horseback riding is beneficial ride, the students also learn how for the handicapped because the to care for the horses and take motion of the horses relaxes part in their grooming and their legs. It's like a massage," feeding. said volunteer coordinator Kathy Lanphere. 
The program runs from May 
through October. Although no 

More importantly, the students Notre Dame or Saint Mary's stu­benefit emotionally from the pro­dents are. currently involved in gram. "Coming out here gives Reins of Life, students have the students the feeling that they volunteered for the program in can ride horses just like anyone the past. else," said Lanphere. 
On Oct. I 5 the program will "It gives them a feeling'ofwell­finish the season with a morning being. It's a real ego booster," of horseback. riding for said Mueller. preschool-age children from the Logan Center. "We would love to The horses used for the pro­have students participate," said gram are loaned by children in Mueller. Interested students can 
From now until November 1987, the master will attempt to outdo even himself. In the short span of I4 months, King plans to publish four books. The first has been completed, and It is a monumental 1138-page work titled "It". As expected, it is vintage King. 
"It" is the story of Derry, Maine, a small town which experiences a rash of murders and unex­plained occurrences approxi­mately every 27 years. The tale concerns seven people who sur­vive the the terror-filled years of 1957-'58 and who return to Derry in I 985 once again to fight the unknown menace which threat­ens the town. 
So what about "It?" 
The book is basically a collec­tion of intertwined anecdotes about several main characters. Each of these stories is related to "It" itself, which appears as a number of creatures such as a clown named Pennywise and a lumbering water-dwelling, people-eating nightmare beastie. 
The book begins in I957 with the tale of little Georgie Denbrough who loved to watch his paper boat as it floated in rain-soaked gutters. Unfortun­ately, Georgie met Pennywise and lost touch with reality, per­manently. Officially he was clas­sified as murdered (his arm was torn off), but Georgie's older brother Bill knew that Georgie had met with a supernatural fate. 
Years later, with this childhood alliance in mind, Mike Hanlon, an amateur historian and the only member of the group to 
remain in Derry, calls his friends to reunite. This summons serves to introduce the remainder ofthe group. 
Each character is introduced with his own chapter detailing his actions during and after he receives Hanlon's call. King uses 50 pages to introduce Stanley Uris, a wealthy accountant; Beverly Marsh, a battered wife with a lot of guts; Ritchie Tozier, a DJ known for his many voices; Ben Hascomb, a millionaire ar­chitect; Eddie Kaspbrak. a limo driver with a wife who is a carbon­copy of his mother; and 

"King's main appeal is his wonderfully gruesome yet humorous brand of horror com­bined with real­istic characters." 
King's main appeal is his won­derfully gruesome yet humorous brand of horror combined with realistic characters. Horror abounds in this tale and Is as enchantingly repulsive as ever. King can make the spine tingle with nothing more than a description of wind rustling through trees or a particular scent in the air. 
Readers may feel they are pres­ent at every revelation; It Is diffi­cult to do otherwise. The same things that make the reader want to stop also will propel him even further. King is truly In great form in "It," and the horror and thrills never let up. 
local 4-H clubs and by other in­obtain more information from ...which with a little bit of help they learn how to ride dividuals. 'These have to be very the Center for Social Concerns. 
i 
I ' 
• 
I 
The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1986, -page 8 
Sports Briefs . 

Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for registra­The SMC varsity swim team will hold practice today at the 
tion for a number of upcoming NVA events. Rockne Memorial Pool on the Notre Dame campus from .3:.30 Today is the deadline for: to 5:.30 p.m. Interested swimmers should bring proof of a INNERTUBE WATER POLO: open tournament, $10 fee, min­recent physician's clearance to the first practice. Call 284­
Imum I 0 players, four must be female, no more than two 5548 for more information. -The Observer varsity swimmers, no Water Polo Club members. 

Tomorrow is the deadline for registration for HORSEBACK RIDING, which takes place Sunday and costs $4 for an open­field ride and $6 for a trail ride. The Varsity Crew Team will hold a general meeting tonight 
Oct.8 is the deadline for the following events on the NVA at 7:.30 in room 127 Niewland. Bring your checkbooks to the calendar. meeting, which will concern the trip to Canada. -The Observer VOLLEYBALL: tournaments for men, women, faculty and staff. RACQUETBALL: singles' tournaments for men, women and 
grad-faculty, best-of-three games to 21. The Squash Club will hold its first organizational meeting BADMINTON: open, double-elimination tournament, equi­today at 7 p.m. in LaFortune' little theatre. Anyone interested pmemt and rules provided. is welcome to attend. For more details call William Mapother 
CO-REC BASKETBALL: five men and five women, ali men at 28.3-.3669. -The Observer. must be from same hall, $10 entry fee for officials. In addition, an ARCHERY CLINIC Is being held Oct.6, 8 and 

I.3 from 4 to 5:.30 p.m. for beginners and intermediates. A $.3 entry fee must be paid at the NVA office and ail equipment will be provided. The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 
Information and registration for these and other NVA events 6:.30 at the boathouse on St. Joseph's Lake. The Carey Price may be obtained by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC, regatta and the trip to Boston will be discussed. New members or by calling NVA at 2.39-6100. are welcome. -The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
When I left, I loved the place." The Irish look to continue their winning ways during their three­game homestand this week. It all begins tonight with a match against St. Francis, a perenniel opponent which Lambert main­tains is always a tough match. The contest begins at 7:.30 in the ACC Pit, as the Irish hope to match last year's victory (15­7, I5-I2, 15-12) and post their I Oth win of the season. The Irish also take to the ACC Pit court this weekend to do battle with Mar­quette (Friday, 7:.30 p.m.) and DePaul (Saturday, 7:.30 p.m.). DePaul began the season ranked I 1th in the Midwest. The Irish are used to facing ranked teams, after having earlier beaten two ranked teams (Indiana and Brad­ley), losing to two (Western Mic­higan and Purdue) and seeing many more on the schedule for October and November. 

The ObseJVer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Frida~. The ObseJVer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collg Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Frida . Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day.
Classifieds 

My big brother and little slater have "MY NAME IS BEER CAN."-YVONNE Happy birthday, Lynneay. You may be NOTICES Saturday, before Purdue game. Lost 2 door,excellent. condltlon,great In never seen Notre Dame win. Please DUNCAN SEPTEMBER 26,1986. 21, but you're still that little red­near Sr. Bar area, on Green Field. II 
LOST: ND football tickets, this laat CAR FOR SALE '80 DODGE OMNI 024 

snow and coldl 2n-3682 help grant them their God-given right headed freshman-to-be that I met one MIKE "LmLE BONE" McCAR­
found, call Kate, £3701, 236 Lewis. by aalllng me two Air Force GAs or summer. Day Chief, radio host and TYPING AVAILABLE 1976 Toyata Corolla Sport Coupe. student tlcketa. Call Mark at 283-1542. THEEEEE....IS IN SEARCH OF A SEX now grown-up ... Friends like you CRAZED NOTRE DAME OR SAINT don't come around very often. Happy
287-4082 Runs great, good condition, only God bleas you.
PHIL SHERIDAN, I FOUND YOUR 

MARYa OR TOWNY WOMAN(OR WO­birthday -your MWF lunchmate.
71000 mi., 2 dr.,4ap., aaklng $1095.

BOOKBAG. CALL £3549 TO CLAIM MEN). HE IS CURRENTLY SUFFERING
DESPERATELY NEED 'BAMA TICK­
Call 287-9081. 

FROM THE D.S.B.'S ; AS ARE THE ATTENTION LADIESIII
Wordproceaalng raaumea, ate. ETS -WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS

LOST: Light blue windbreaker with REST OF THE UNMARRIED STU­
PETRO WLU SKI TEAM written on the back. DENTS..... 
Typaaet quality. 28!·8024. CALL FOR TRIPP BALTZ AT 234-4642 

VICH Pleaae call Pat -1581 -or drop It oil at TROTSKY MACINTOSH 128k with carrying caaa, OR 2311-5303. 
Wordprocaaalng-Typlng printer, loads of software aaklng

1111 Flenner Hall REWARDI Thao ma)ors and other Interested stu­BABUSZKA
272-8827 $1150 Call Tom at 4307 after 8pm 

I NEED PITT GAS & ALL HOME dents: Do not mlaa "Selecting Your FRASIER LOST:FRIDAY NIGHT AT BRIT· GAMES.272-e308 Graduate School lor Advanced MAGIC MAN
FOR SALE: 191N. HITACHI COLOR TV.

GETS...OLD BLUE JEAN JACKET Studies In Theology"...a seminar con­JAMALSKOVICH
TYPING BY SALLY CABLE READY, SUPER SHARP PIC­

CONTAINING KEYS AND LICENSE. I NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA'S ducted by members of the theology TURNS 19 TODAY. CALL 3171 AND
272-7573 TURE ONLY 3 YEARS OLD. 10 YEAR

THIS JACKET HAS EXTREME SEN­PLEASE CALL 2157 faculty, tonight, at 7:00 PM, 341 WISH AMERICA'S FAVORITE CON­
WARRANTY. MUST SELL, $400 OR

TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE, IF O'Shaughne..y. SERVATIVE HAPPY BIRTHDAY.
OFFER. CALL 233-2808.
YOU'VE SEEN IT, CALL 2172 OR STOP ZIPPY and hlo wile are coming lor1987 SMCND aummer program• over­

BY 433 LEWIS. REWARD OFFERED. Penn St. and need 2 GA'a.Contact ZIP­ATTENTION FORMER EDITOR9-IN· 
aaaa(14th annual) London program 1980 Honda Civic Wagon, Air, PY'S brother at £3549. CHIEF & OBSERVER STAFFERS: May 20-June 19th. (Travel In AM!FM,5-apeed, No Ruat, Vary Reli­Write ua and give ua your addresa and HEP ME! HEP MEl I AM DESPERATE lra.,Scot.,Franca). Rome program able, $1,650, 233-9947. 

Mommy and Daddy will atop loving let uo know what you're doing. FOR A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS THIS June 14th-July 13th.(travel In Franca, 
me II they don't get aent 2 GA'a lor WEEKEND. CAN LEAVE ANY TIME Gar, Swlaa. Italy) Couraea In art, FOR RENT 
LSU. Pleaaa help.Brlan£3549 FRIDAY (OCT. 3) AND RETURN ANY bua.,educ.,ang.,hlst.,ltallan. Info meet­TIME ON SUNDAY (OCT. 5). PLEASE Ing Rm 232 Moreau(SMC) 7PM Oct TICKETS NEED ONE OR TWO GA'S FOR PITT OFF-CAMPUS SENIORSIIIII OFF· CALL MATT AT X2314 OR X2261.
GARAGE FOR RENT 30$ A MONTH .5

14th. Faculty, laat yra. atudenta, and -CALL CURTIS AT 1421 CAMPUS SENIORSIIIII Info. on all THANKS!
MILE FROM ND ACCROSS FROM

plzzao. Quutlone call Prof. A.R. Black, Senior Clan activities, Dogbooko,
CAMPUS VIEW CALL MATT AT

284-4480 or 272-3726. $$ I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ NEED TWO G.A.a FOR AIR FORCE Senior Gold Cards, and all upcoming St. Jude'o Novena May the Sacred
2723491 

DAN 3273 Call Chrla at 1788 II willing to aall. evento can now be picked up at the Heart of Jeaua be adored, glorified, SAME-DAY TYPING Senior Claaa Olllca, 2nd floor Lafor­loved and preserved through out the NO Pick-up Needed: 2 GAa lor Air Force. Call tune, northeaat wing world now and forever. Sacrad Heart Quick-Type, Inc. x2134. NEED TWO G.A.a FOR PENN STATE of Jeeua pray lor ua. St. Jude, worker 2n-&998 WANTED Call Chrla at 1788 II willing to aall. CLASS OF 1987 CLASS OF 1987 of miracles, pray lor ua. St. Jude, the I REALLY NEED ONE PITT GAl WILL Senior Night at Beacon BowlIll Wed., helper of the hopeleaa, pray lor ua. TRADE STUDENT AIRFORCE PLUS 1 Oct. CLASS OF 1987 Say this prayer nine times a day, by TYPINGWORDPROCESSING SKI ALL WINTERI Crystal Mountain Ia $... TARA 2698 NEED 3 PITT TIXS. the eighth day your prayer will be an­CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. now hiring children's akl Instructors 2GAII STUD OR 3GA swered. It has never been known to lor the wlntar aa88on. Salary plua HELPI I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL EVEN WILLING TO PAY$$$ SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS fall. Muat promise publication. It did 
room & board. Contact Martha Mandel HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASHI DAVE 1739 SENIORS Dogbooka will be sold to lor me. M.S. or Dave Hofacker at (616)3711-2911. CALL TOM AT 1n4. students who WERE OVERSEAS LAST YEAR at the Senior Claoo Office 
BIG $$ 4 PITT STUOOA'S X-4280

EARN UP TO $8 AN HOUR Aa a NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY on Wed. and Thurs., Oct. 1&2 from
LOST/FOUND 
HOW ABOUT A GAME OF

delivery driver you muat have your BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME 6-8p.m. Senior Geld Cards and Windy own car. Hours are llexable. PIZZA IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS City Weakend booklets and Info. can
HAVE 5 GAa lor SMU, NEED 5 GAs DIPLOMACY? CALL DAVE AT 1443 LOST FRESH WATER PEARL HUT DELIVERY Apply at 138 v.! DIXIE CALL JOE 239-7471 OR lor PITT. Will TRADE or pay CASH. be picked up too. Come to the 2nd 
TO MY MICHIANA SWEETHEART.

Call Nellie at 3602. YOU'RE THE BEST! HAPPY 21. I LOVE
BRACELET NEAR FISHER, MOR­WAY NORTH.In Roaeland around the 283-1931. THANKS floor Lafortune, northeast wing. 
RISEY OR LEWIS ON SATURDAY corner on Murray St. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS YOU ,DAVID.
PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 3620. SENIORS REWARD. Desperately aeeklng Suaan or anyone PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL 
SAW:Beut.blonde girl 
Venez, venez toua a Ia reunion du

alae In Ann Arbor this weekend. Need 3520 AT:McCand.SYR&Hagar CLASS OF 19871111 Tippecanoe Place 
Cercle Francais. Quand: mercredlsolrWEARING:blue aklrt W.Whlte
LOST WATCH, VERY SENTIMENTAL ride both waya, will ahara uaual and Twilight Dinner Special $8.95 4-couraa a 19h. Ou: a.341 Nleuland Scienceblouse.lwantto ...you. Meetmeat­theSMCIIbraryThuraat6. We xchan­GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY buy road relraahmenta Call Dave 283-NEED 2 GA'S TO NO-ALABAMA meals with Senior Gold Card !II Friday, Hall. A blentolll BULIVA, ENGRAVING ON BACK: To 2059. Don't delay, call today GAME. CALL 1-404-461-4514 AND Oct. 3 Don't mlaa out on this onefllgedlookalaatatMcCand. alteryoucha­

Steve, love mom and dad, 12t.ZS83 ASK FOR JOE. 

CLASS OF 196711111 Come one, come all to tha French Club
nged

PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 4659 WITH PART-TIME DESK CLERK. Bookkeep­Meeting. When: Wedneoday night at 7 INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 Ing experience helpful. NlghllEvening PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL P.M. Whera: Room 341 Nleuland. See PANGBORN... REWARD OFFERED ahllt. S4.0011r. 233-1154. 3520 you therall
My big brother and little slater have
111111 

never seen Notre Dame win. PleaseNEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE A 2 PITT GA'S. MAURA 284-5108. 
NEED 6 GAs lor AIR FORCE, OCT 18. SENIORSI!SENIORSI!SENIORSII
grant them their God-given right byHELPI I LOST MY FAVORITE NO FOR SALE 239-5873 selling me TWO Air Force GAs or atu­Beacon Bowl BASH Tonight!II 
SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE Bring your lrlenda and come to
dent tickets. Call Mark at 283-1542.
NEED 6 PITT GA'S. CALL PATTY 284­

HALL TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE Beacon Bowl tonight
God bleaa you.
USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS IN A PANICII Family coming In from 5257. OVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL 

SMALL, AND HAS SMALL HOLES ALL BEACON BOWL-BE THERE!II 
AUDIOPHILES Jersey and Ohio lor PITT GAME­BARB AT 1349 IF FOUND. I CANT'T 

Phaae Linear Autocorrelator (nolae r• TNEED SIX TIX-GA-STUDI Staph 272-NEEDED: 5 GA'S FOR THE AIR FORCE FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT WANTED: OUT! THANKYOU ST. JUDE!
ductlon lor all sources) -$100; Audio 5417 GAME. 284-5320. $$$$ IT. REWARDIIIII TAKE: ME
Pulse Digital Time Delay (to reproduce concert hall ambience; Incorporates a NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S BAD. HELPI NEED 2 PITT GA TO: MILWAUKEE, OCT. 3 Willing to aell two G.A.alor Air Force?
. $$$REWARD$$$ Loat Pentax K1000 25 watl-thannel amp. You supply FRED 289-9225. CALL 1599 FOR:$ Call Chrlo at 1788 lor a good deal. camera In Hurley, Tuesday, Sept. 23. 
aecond pair olapeakers.) -$200; Heller CALL: TRICIA 284-4040 Pleaae call Jenny at 288-2773. 
110 Preamp (audiophile quality, rack­NEED 2 GA's lor SMU call Pam 283-DANCE PARTY at CHIP'S $$$REWARDS$$ 
mountable) -$150. Alao have recorda 3503 TONITE 1!VI ONLY (many digital and v.! speed masters) Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? RAR by THE URGE! and pr•racorded claaalcal caaaettea. PERSONALS Desperately need a ride lor Fall Break!
LOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE­GIES text In Hurley. II found, please need two Penn State tlcketa. Call 4224

Call 277-5912 or 2311-7133. Call Rob at 1546. Will more than ahara expenaea. FALL FEST IS COMING. GET READYreturn to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyona Hall or call 283-2999. 
FOR SALE OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. One King 4B symphony-quality trom­$$$NEED 4 AIRFORCE GA'S $$$ WILL CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE THE FINALE IS THE GARDENS. 
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet be­PAY $$$ CALL NANCY 3829
bone with F attachment -$700 or baa! BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. aarlous offer. One Olda tenor student 
WANTED: OUT! 

-nAlumni and Dillon. Call Mark at Grace Hall SYR It'a coming I Grace Hall
trombone -$100. Call Kelly Havana at TAKE: ME
1712 lor positive I.D. TOP QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH SYR It's comlngl
2311-5637 momlnga and alternoona. NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITT. CALL TO: MILWAUKEE
CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. 
OCT. 3TOM 3130

FOUND: A 100% WOOL BASEBALL PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR JOEl JOEl JOEl JOEl JOEl "That waa FOR: $1TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER
CAP AT LUNCH IN SOUTH DINING MORE INFORMATION AT 277-3932 OR Joe Jarosz on the carry lor an Irish CALL: TRICIA 284-4040
RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, WANTED: 4 Pm TICKETS BADLY JOHN 283-1483. the entire student body of N.D. and 
HALL ON FRIDAY SEPT. 26. CALL 272-3932. llrat down.'' WAY TO GO, JOE!IIIove,
FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. NEEDED. CALL DAVE AT 3810 Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­S.M.C. 
JOHN QUINN, HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO
FOR SALE MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: THE MAN WHO'S £1 ON OUR

One GE Llght'n'Eaay Steam and Dry Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday J12-ALWAYS GLAD TO HELP THAT
LOST: ONE GOLD CHAIN WITH YACKETY-YAK LIST. LOVE, YOUR
Iron with a lull-alze, collabalblelronlng YES, I NEED TWO PITT TIX. STUD OR 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm·1am; Sunday SOMEONE SPECIAL OFFICE HOURS
THREE CHARMS(A HALF-HEART,A WOMEN, SMC POOH BEAR, M.J.,
board, pad, and cover. -$25. Call Kelly GA'S. CALL STEVE AT 277-0973. IT'S 4pm-10pm. 2AM TO 2AM SUN THRU SAT HOUSE
CROSS, AND "PRECIOUS"). IT IS OF RENEE, RAMONA, BABBS, MOM, &
Havana at 2311-5837 mornings and af­SO IMPORTANT THAT $$IS NO PROB­CALLS AT NO EXTRA CHARGE DOC
GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I LEM.

ternoons. D TOMORROW'S THE DAYIII E. CHRISSY.
WOULD APPRECIATE ANY HELP-I C POST-GRAD OPPORTUNITIESHAVE TO FIND ITIII PLEASE CON­
HELPI P.W. Partner(my boas) needs 4 DAYIII 

TON~HT IS CLASS OF '67 NIGHT THANKS TO THE EXPLOITED WHOTACT LISA AT 2862, 218 LYONS. EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT GA & 2 student tickets lor Pitt Oct. 11. 
Thursday, CSC Pallo at BEACON BOWL PARTICIPATED IN CHARADES ATTHANK YOU. 
DESIGN : "NOTRE DAME BEACH I love my job & my lllell Call Joanna JVC,CHANNEL, HCA AND MOREll BE THERE!II RANDALL'S. AS EVER, YOURCLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW 
(716)837-9178 SENIORSIIISENIORSIIISENIORS!II PUNCTUAL DATES.
LOST: Blue Patagonia pull-over FOR ONLY $8.00. CALL GREG FOR P.S. SPECIAL THANKS TO JOE C.
jackal, Hurley Hall, Sunday ~1 Con­INFORMATION AT 2n-3932. 

NEED 10 STUDENT PITT TIXI CALL NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTING ASSO­Hear yal Hear yel Lynne Strand, that tained Important keya In pouch 
284-5207. CIATION Day Chlal goddess, Ia 21 today. Give 
pocket. Pleaae return keys at leaat Call FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS, Laat Chancel Anyone.who mlaaad the 

her a call at 3861. And while you're 12 Alabama GA'a avallablelll John at 1686 lor Information leading YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL DESPERATELY NEED 2 AIR FORCE organization meeting and Ia atllllnter­at It, wlah her a happy birthday. -The 50 yard-line box aaatal to the arraet of this jacket· GREG AT 272-3932. GA'S CALL TOM at 4307 alter 8pm ested In joining, call Mike at 1788. Newa Editors call Greg (219) 283-1068. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1986, -page 9 


i 
{ 
! 
AP Photo 

Why is Vinny Testaverde smiling? It could be that his Hur­ricanesjust became the No. 1 team in the country. The story on this week's poll appears at right. 
_ _ __Tt:IE THOMAS J. Presents a lecture
\ V FHITE-CENTER 
by
WFORLAWAND 

__GQVERNMENT_ Professor Edward M. Gaffney 
Notre Dame law SdlOOI 
Loyola Law School, Los Angeles on 
"The Religion Clauses: Disentangling Entanglement and Relieving the Tension" 

Frida October 3 at NOON Room 101 Law School 
Crimson Tide ranked 2nd 

Hurricanes should remain on top 
Associated Press 
For the second time thi~ season, Notre Dame will be facing the second-ranked team in the nation. Alabama moved up to second from third by garner­ing one first-place vote and 1, 058 points, trailing new number-one Miami by 98 points, in the Associated Press poll released yesterday. 
The Irish faced Michigan in their opening game when the Wolverines were ranked second. 
Miami of Florida Coach Jimnty Johnson says he's wary about whether his team can remain No. 
1 the rest of college Football season, but Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer thinks the Hur­ricanes should have smooth sailing. 
"It's obviously early in the season and there's a lot of Foot­ball left to be played," Johnson said. "I look at Miami of Ohio beating LSU. and I know that in this game you'd better be ready to play every week." 
Miami. which beat Oklahoma 28-16 Saturday, replaced the 
CFA 
continuedfrompage 12 
dents, such as Notre Dame, Bos-
Sooners as the top-ranked team by receiving 56 of 58 first-place votes. 
The Hurricanes have seven op­ponents remaining on the regu­lar schedule with a combined record of 10-18-2-one ofwhich, East Carolina, has the longest Division I losing streak at 13 games. 
"They shouldn't stub their toe the rest of the way with the schedule they have," said Okla­homa Coach Barry Switzer after Saturday's loss. 
Miami's remaining seven regular-season opponents are Northern Illinois (0-5), West Vir­ginia (2-2), Cincinnati (2-2}, Florida State (1-2-1 ), Pitt (2-1-1). Tulsa (3-2) and East Carolina (0­4). Only Florida State has been in the Top Twenty this year. 
"It's ironic that statements have been made about the rest of our schedule," Johnson said. "Before we beat Florida and Oklahoma, everybody talked about how tough the West Vir­ginia and Pitt games would be on the road, and Florida State at home." 
"I know how good West Vir­
trying to improve academic standards than it has television. The CFA also gave the coaches a voice." 
According to Neinas, the NCAA has continually failed to recog­nize the needs and concerns of the coaches. Through the CFA, coaches have been given a Forum to express ideas. As a result. the CFA's coaches committee suc­cessfully initiated drives for the NCAA's Satisfactory Progress Rule, which requires progress by an athlete towards a degree, and Proposition 48, which provides guidelines For incoming college athletes. 
Since it started, the CFA has been successful in distinct three areas, according to its executive director. 
"If it weren't for the CFA, the NCAA would not have reor­ganized to the extent that It has," Neinas says. "The CFA has been in the vanguard of supporting higher academic standards, and the coaches have come Forth with very practical and enforceable legislation, such as the Recruit­ing Calendar." 
Overall, Neinas believes that the CFA has been successful in the promotion of major college football. The CFA has worked to 

ginia, Pitt and Florida State can 
be. Florida State lost to Michigan 
by two points in Ann Arbor so I 
know how tough that game will 
be," Johnson added. "It's a lot 
tougher schedule than people 
think." 
The Hurricanes received 1,156 
out of a possible L 160 points. 
with Alabama and Penn State the 
only other schools to receive 
first-place votes. Alabama. Ne­
braska and Michigan, which 
knocked Florida State out of the 
Top Twenty for the first time in 
three years with a 20-18 victory, 
each moved up one spot to be 
ranked second, third and fourth, 
respectively. 
Penn State, which downed East Carolina, 42-17, moved from seventh to fifth, while Oklahoma dropped to sixth. Auburn and Arkansas advanced to eighth and ninth, and Southern California jumped From 12th to No. 10. 
The second 10, in order, con­sisted ofArizona, Iowa, Washing­ton, Baylor, Texas A&M, UCLA, Arizona State, Michigan State, Louisiana State, Fresno State and North Carolina State. 
strengthen both the athletic and academic spheres and has been successful. according to Neinas. 
For the future, Neinas ex­plained that the CFA was institut­ing a blue ribbon committee at its next meeting. This commit­tee, made up of top administra­tors and coaches from across the country will look the post-season Football scene with a possibility of a post-season tournament, the future of college Football on television, matters related to the economics of college football and the current scope of the CFA to possibly Include other sports. 
(tomorrow: The CFA and Tele­vision) 
Boggs ups lead over Mattingly 
Associated Press 
Wade Boggs of the American League East Division champion Boston Red Sox increased his lead to eight points over New York's Don Mattingly last night in the American League batting race. 
Boston's Wade Boggs went 4­for-4 with two doubles and two singles to raise his major-league leading batting average from .353 to .358 in Boston's 6-3 loss to the Baltimore Orioles. 
Don Mattingly went 1-for-3 with an intentional walk. keeping his batting average at .349, as the Yankees solidified thier hold on second place by downing Toronto, 5-2. Entering the game, he trailed Boggs by Four percentage points. Also in the New York victory, the Yankees' Rickey Hen­derson led off the game with a homerun for the ninth time this season, extending his AL record. 


The Observer Wednesday, October 1, 1986, -page 10 
Irish golfers defeat W. Michigan, take 3rd at Ind. Championship 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame golf team en­joyed a successful weekend by winning a dual match on Friday before taking a third-place finish Sunday at the Indiana State Golf Championship. 
The Irish went to Kalamazoo on Friday where they defeated host Western Michigan by a 

• 
! 75, best among the club. Doug 
Giorgio followed closely with a 
79. The rest ofthe team finished, in order, with Dick Connelly(80), Pat Mohan(81 ), John Connel­ly(83), and Mike Culver(84). Each side's high-score was not in­cluded in the team totals. 
Notre Dame coach Noel O'Sullivan commented that his team did show signs of nervous­ness in its first action of the season. 
"Three of our six guys (Mohan, Culver, and John Connelly) were playing in their very first col­legiate tournaments," he said. "That showed at times." 
O'Sullivan also noted that a pri­mary reason for his young players' nervousness may have been due to the course, which has a high rating that lends itself to higher than average scores. 
O'Sullivan then took his troops south to Zionsville, Ind., Sunday, for the state golf championship. Fifteen colleges from Indiana were invited to participate in the 36-hole event. There, the Irish gave another good performance, for which they were rewarded with third place. Had It not been 
Blyleven gets record, sympathy 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -It's not sympa­thy Bert Blyleven is looking for after setting a major league record for home run pitches in a season, but sympathy is what the Minnesota Twins hurter is getting from Hall of Fame pitcher Robin Roberts, the previous record holder. 
"Bert Blyleven is probably pitching in the worst home run park ever built," Roberts said Monday night after Blyleven gave up three homers to the Cleveland Indians for his 47th, 48th and 49th of the year at the Metrodome. 
"I don't like to see a guy with that ability have it detracted from him," Roberts added. 
Blyleven broke Roberts' 1956 record when he gave up a two­out, third-Inning homer to Indian rookie Jay Bell, who was involved in a 1985 trade for Blyleven. Bell hit on the first pitch he saw in the major leagues .389 feet into the left field bleachers. 
Despite the three homers, Blyl­ven, 16-14, gave up seven hits overall and emerged the winner when the Twins rallied in the eighth for a 6-5 victory. 
Roberts, contacted by the St. Paul Pioneer Press and Dispatch at his Florida home after Blyleven tied his mark with 46 home run pitches, also expressed little pa­tience for reporters. 
"I don't think it's fair to Bert Blyleven, especially considering the phenomenal record he's had, that you guys bring that up," Roberts said. 
stroke (398-399). Although the Irish were unable to get in a prac­tice round for the 18-hole match, they were still able to win in somebody else's backyard. 
Pacing the victors was senior captain Chris Bona who fired a for an unfortunate wrist i'1Jury sustained by Dick Connelly, who had to withdraw after the first round, the team had a solid bid for second place. 
Nonetheless, O'Sullivan was pleased by his team's showing. 
"Our third-place finish leaves me and the team with a positive feeling ofaccomplishment," said O'Sullivan. "The numbers were not wonderful, butwere good rel­ative to the rest of the field". 
Notre Dame finished with a two-day total of 646, and Pat Mohan took the runner-up medalist trophy after shooting a 154 total. Ball State's Jeff Gal­lagher was the medalist winner with a 151. In addition, Ball State won the championship with a team score of 618. Franklin Col­lege came in second at 644. 
The club's individual numbers stacked up with Mohan's 154 (73­81 ). Giorgio hit a 162 (80-82), John Connelly, a 165 (82-83), Bona~ a 166 (82-84), and Dick Connelly, an 8 1, before withdrawing after the first round. Again, each team's highest score 
in each round was tossed out. 
Connelly's if1iury, according to O'Sullivan, will sideline him for several weeks. Therefore, O'Sullivan will be forced to fill the vacancy with one of two players. 
"Mike Culver and Norm Campbell will play four rounds this week. and the low score total will determine who gets the open spot," he said. 
Either Culver or Campbell will join the team as it prepares for Monday's Notre Dame Fall Invi­tational to be held at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
90 STUDENT TICKETS NEEDED 
* 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of LaPorte County requests that students leaving campus before the Air Force game consider lending thier football tickets to the clients of the Michiana Sheltered Workshop (physically and/or mentally handicapped people) from Michigan City. 

* 
Loan your tickets for this worthwhile cause -·drop them off at the Center for Social Concerns by Thursday, October 9th. 

* 
Tickets would be available for pick up on Monday after break. (The tickets will be handled by responsible people.) 

* 
Questions? Call: Tim McBride at 289-2468 (LaPorte Co. Alumni Club President), or Sue Cunningham: 239-7867 at the Center for Social Concerns·. 



SAB Sponsored 
USC TRIP 
Information Meeting 7:00pm. Monday Oct. 6 Lower Level LaFortune ** Quad RQQmmate 8r Ticket Signups•• 
The First Annual respect Life Mass and Dinner sponsored by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life and originally scheduled for October 4th has been postponed until December 6th due to conflicts with the televised ND IAlabama game. 
Bishop John D'Arcy and U.S. Deputy Assistant Attorney General Douglas Kmiec will be present -on December 6th and tickets bought for the 4th 
will be honored. 
Refunds will be granted upon request. Thursday and Friday in the Dining Halls. 


/ Read Football Notebook -Thursdays! / 



'WEDNESDAY: Lite Nite $.90 
THURSDAY: 

Band -Lake Effect Bud Night $.75 

--·-· ~ ---~--~-----~-------­
-

~~~~~.........................................................w.e•d•n•e•s•d•ay•'•O•c•t•o•b•er..l,•.•19•8•6•,•-•p•a•g•e...11 
Bloom County 
Beernuts 

YO, HAR.VIIJ I C.OHE OW tN HERE ! I'OU GOTrA <HI:C.I( 
Campus 
I THINK mrs rs 1lf( 81& CW€. 
I 
,,_, 
LOOK/TALL TillS STUFF! FRIOf.f, TOASTER, STE"R£"0, T.V., /11CROIJAV£, 1-ftm>oT. •• 
I 

I 2: I 0 -I :00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12: 15 -I: 15 p.m.: Center for Spirituality's Is­sues Facing Women in the Church, fall. 1986 series. Speaker: Dr. Doris Donnelly, SMC. Topic: "Women and Conflict". Free and open to the public. Stapleton Lounge 
.3:20 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, Mac Write, room I 08 Computing Center, limit 
12. MAil/BITNET, room 2.3 Computing Center, limit I 0. To register call Betty at 2.39-5604. Free and open to the public. 
4:00 p.m.: Post-Graduate Opportunities Day. Students invited to discuss the volunteer op­tions available after graduation. All seniors invited. Patio outside the Center for Social Concerns 
6:00 -6:.30 p.m.: Sign ups, Wisconsin Club, chartering bus for fall break to Kenosha, Racine, and Milwaukee, $25, bottom of Lafor­tune 
4:00 p.m.: Architecture Lecture. Speaker: Franz Schulze, Art Historian, Lake Forest Col­lege. Topic: "The Architecture of Mies van de Rohe". 202 Arci1itechture Building 
Sound offagainst 
noise pollution. 
Help Woodsy spread the word. 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
='SI&/1... ~ 
WlfAPilYA
lr'J 1/EJO(/{liN Ofii:'RlJ//.~!M/71 
WANr! 
!J(JT t.OVIl/Jt£ S/tlllf?T llt.£CK. 
CA73HAVf 
OlEN crJNE.
I 
\ 
Mark Williams 


YEAH, AAJD (OU'RE 60~WA UAVE ~~TIIIN6 ELSE" REAL SOOIJ. 
I 
WIIAT? 
I 
7:00 
p.m.: Organizational meeting of the French Club for past and future Angevin(e)s and all those interested. Dues $1. Important issues to be discussed. .341 Nieuwland Sci­ence Hall. Venez, Venez Tous! 

7:00 
p.m.: General meeting of Notre Dame College Republicans. All interested welcome. Library Lounge 7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "The Music Man", 1962, color, 151 minutes, Mor­ton Da Costa, USA. O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 7:00, 9:00 & I I :00 p.m. Movie "48 Hours", $1. 50, Engineering Aud 7:.30 p.m.: Lecture, Exxon Distinguished Visit­ing Scholar Series, College of Arts & Letters and Dept. of Art. Art History and Design. Theme: Art in America: Values in the Market­place. Topic: "Values for an American Cul­ture". Speaker: Don Bush, Design Historian, Dept. of Art, Arizona State University. Annen­berg Auditorium 


8:00 p.m.: Exxom Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts & Letters and the Dept. of History, Lecture by: Prof. Charles Tilly, Distinguished Professor of History and Sociology, The New School for Social Re­search. Topic: Linkers, Diggers, and Glossers in Social History, 122 Hayes-Healy 

"Uh-oh ... The Beaumonts' mouth is on fire." 
• 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 $5 bill 4 Flub 9 Star in Cygnus 
14 Excitement 15 Bay window 16 Act together 17 1oe paperback 
of yore 19 Hidden money 20-majesty 21 $1.00 23 Relinquish 26 Vocalized 
pauses 28 Speaks 29 Mother-in-law 
of Ruth 31 Dress ornament 33 Leering one 


34 Rani garb 35 Relief money 38-Aviv 39 $10 bill 42-Plaines 43 Time periods 45 Tropical tree 46 Vicinities 48 Cash reduction 50 Ones there 51 Vinegar 9 Money 
bottle 10 Performed 53 Chafe 11 5e music 56 $1 bills player of old 57 Set in motion 12 Upper air 59 Be ahead 13 Bar orders 61 Thesaurus 18 Smyrna figs 
compiler 22 Songs 62 1 e poker game 23 $100 bill 67 Synthetic 24-beaver 
fabric 25$ $$$ 68 Enraged 27 Ken of 69 Charged football 
particle 30 Money col­70 Demi--lecting agcy. 71 Salad green 32 Cuckoopint 72 $1000 34 Long hit 
36 Rent 
DOWN 37 Curved letters 1 Passing fancy 40 Not together 2-Amin 41 Krazy­3-de guerre 44 Sofas 4 Part of GWTW 47 Valerie Harper 5 Sprang (from) role 6 See 1A 49 Starr or 7 Charge lennon 8 Extensions 51 Gold weight 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
'""'I' LKAIAMASS
I R A N N E A R N 0 V E l T A l C 8 A N C S T E l E 0 N T 0 P 0 F T H E W 0 R l D 
-MIR.ME­
S AM P A N AM I R T S K 0 l 
E A N. 8 l 0 T • 
I RfQ'N'
WI 

OM 
E l 

N S 0 S E s 0 
ME ~ .¥. E S .A.P R I M A 
R E S 8 R A N 8 I 
A S E D P 0 I 
0 IS 
E­

SIRED ETUI INRE 
S T A V E B 0 
••••••••••I'""" 
R N T E A l R A T E R S M 0 G E R l E 
10/1/86 

52 Marketplace 63 Make a 4A 
54 Arm bones 64 Trim a coin 55 Inclinations edge 58 Majestic 65 Digit 60 Certain votes 66 Comp. pt. 


SAB presents 
LIO LIOC 
l t..J I l '' _.J. 
Wed. Oct 1st &Thurs. Oct 2nd 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 Engineering Auditorium $1.50 No Food or Drink Permitted 
I ,I I f f ~· # ' t I • It I •. f • I f I I ;; ·.J I o o • , ~ o 6 o • o • 
r---~--------------~~ 
Wednesday, October 1, 1986, -page 12 
"Volleyball faces St. Francis tonight;


Cunningham making her mark 
ofthe season and has since been one of the most steady Irish performers. She has been named to two all-tournament teams (in the Hoosier Classic and Rice Tournament) In the three tournaments which the Irish have competed ln. 
"She Is making great strides," says Lambert. 
Cunningham comes to Notre Dame with vast volleyball expe­rience. She began her career in the seventh grade and played for her junior high and high school teams. But she attributes much of her success and improvement to her off-season participation in the U.S. Volleyball Association (USVBA) team In the Chicago area, Sports Performance. During her junior and senior years in high school, volleyball was a year-round activity for Cun­ningham between school and USVBA competition. 
"You really had to play club vol­leyball (USVBA) so that the coaches knew you were serious and dedicated to volleyball and that you wanted to play in col­lege," says Cunningham, and dedicated she was. "We practiced fou·r hours a day, three to four nights a week." 
It paid off, as her team placed second in the USVBA Junior Olympic tournament, and she was named to the all-America juniors team. 
With all her volleyball success in high school, Cunningham was on many college recruiting lists across the country. "I decided to stay in the Midwest because I'm from Chicago," says Cunnin­gham so that eliminated the strong California teams." 
She then narrowed her choices to Notre Dame and Ohio State before choosing to play for the Irish. But Notre Dame wasn't al­ways Cunningham's top pick. 
"My dad was crazy about Notre Dame and really wanted me to come here," she says. "I decided to visit but I came really negative. 
see IRISH, page 8 



... 
• 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Talented and young. These are the two most appropriate adjec­tives for this year's Notre Dame volleyball team, which is off to a strong 9-4 start. A team with a starting lineup including three sophomores and a freshmen (sometimes two) usually is con­sidered a year or two away from its best play. Maybe the best is yet to come, but there is no com­plaining about this team's per­formance now. One of the main reasons for the Irish's success on the court this fall is the outstand­ing play of freshman outside hit­ter Kathy Cunningham. 
"She contributes a lot to this team," says Coach Art Lambert of Cunningham. "She is a tre­mendous defensive player and 
has excellent court awareness. Her ability and competitiveness will be a major factor on this team." 
Cunningham jumped into the starting lineup at the beginning 

CFA represents issues, coaches, not just TV contracts 
By MIKE CHMIEL Sports Writer 
(Editor's note -Today the Observer begins a three-part series on the College Football Association and its impact on college football. The series begins with a look at the CFA's formation.) 
For the third-straight year, the College Football Association has come to domi­nate Saturday afternoon television with an array of top football matchups throughout the football season. 
Contrary to the beliefs of many football viewers, the deregulation of the college football television contract by the Na­tional Collegiate Athletic Association did not create the CFA. The freedom afforded to schools by the NCAA in 1984 allowed schools to negotiate individual television contracts and merely afforded the CFA the chance for broader recognition. 
"The CFA was not formed with televi­sian in mind," says Chuck Neinas, Exec­utive Director of the CFA. "The television issue was not raised until the CFA was already functioning." 

The CFA actually began in the fall of 
The CFA 
1975 with a meeting of representatives from seven major conferences and a number of major institutions. These rep­resentatives recognized a desire to reor­ganize the NCAA's top level, Division I, to include only major programs with similar philosophies. Such programs sought a division in which their problems and con­cerns would not be ignored or com­promised. 
"The CFA was to provide a forum for those of the major college football pro­grams to come together and discuss con­cerns and items of mutual interest," Neinas says. 

Following the initial meeting in 1975, 
the NCAA appointed a steering committee 
to develop guidelines for a reorganiza­
tion. In ApriL 1976, however, the NCAA 
rejected a set of guidelines developed by 
this committee. This action by the NCAA 
precipitated a continuance of the com­
mittee's work and resulted in the organi­
zation of the CFA by the end of 1976. 

In June, 1977, the CFA admitted 60 
schools that met the criteria set forth for 
membership and amended its Articles of 
Association. 

According to Neinas, the CFA is a vo­
luntary organization that hopes to recog­. nize the problems that prevail among the major college programs. The key role of the CFA exists in its ability to promote needed change in the NCAA and act ac­
cording to the needs of its members. 

"We're a voluntary organization," says 
Neinas. "We have no rules or regulations. We are all members of the NCAA, and if we want to bring about change, we go through the legislative process. We primarily are what can be cast as a lob­bying group." 
Neinas also explained that while the CFA includes the major college programs, these programs constitute a minority in Division I and the NCAA. Of the almost 1,000 schools in the NCAA, 285 in Divi­sion I and 105 in Division 1-A, only 66 institutions belong to the CFA. This num­ber affords the CFA a majority vote at the Division 1-A level and enables certain legislation to get passed. 
The members of the CFA include the schools of the Western Athletic Confer­ence, the Southeastern Conference, the Southwestern Conference, the Big Eight and the Atlantic Coast Conference. The CFA also includes northern indepen­
see CFA, page 9 

It may be trite, but this is a big game 
I hate to use the term, "big game" when describing an upcoming contest. 
It seems trite and it is overused every year, espe­cially if you see a lot of Brent Musburger. 
What about "important game" or "key game" you ask? Sorry, I hate those, too. 
I realize that these terms are accurate most of the time, but it's those other times that really get me. Like when Wisconsin and Northwestern play at the end ofthe season, and it is called a big game because the winner goes into the next season with more mo­mentum. 
Notre Dame's schedule, therefore, presents a prob­lem because the opponent is a worthy onejust about every week. Even ifthe opponent's are not top-notch, like Purdue, something unbelievable is on the line like the Shillelagh. I know we're all relieved to have that baby back in our possession. 
This week's opponent is definitely a worthy one. The second-ranked Alabama Crimson Tide are un­beaten, with wins over Ohio State, Vanderbilt South­ern Mississippi and Florida. 
The list of Crimson Tide weaponry is a long one. Heisman Trophy candidate Mike Shula is the quar­terback. He does not posses the nash of some other Heisman candidates, but he steadily gets the job done and has been extremely effective in late-game drives. 
The running backs are an explosive group. Junior fullback Kerry Goode had an outstanding freshman season before a knee injury ruined the '84 season and half of last season. 
Sophomores Bobby Humphrey and Gene Jelks share the halfback spot and have combined for 541 yards and six touchdowns in Alabama's first four games. Ail three backs present breadaway threats to the Irish defense. 
Shula also has good targets in Albert Bell, an all­America candidate, and Greg Richardson. Bell is off to a slow start, with ten catches in four games for 88 yards, but is a definite game-breaking threat. 
Unfortunately, the arsenal does not stop there. Center Wes Neighbors is regarded by many observers as the best center in the country. Sophomore guard Larry Rose started all I I games last year, and junior guard Bill Condon was a sophomore all-America se­lection last season. 
And they even have a tackle named Hoss Johnson. 
The Irish defense did an exellentjob stopping the 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 
big play last week. but the only part of the Purdue 
attack that remotely resembled a running game was 
the shovel-pass. 
Alabama is more diverse, and more talented, so the Notre Dame defense will have a tougher time stoppong it. 
No, it does not stop yet. The defense is also an excellent unit. 
Cornelius Bennett, an all-American linebacker, is being tabbed by some as the number-one pick in next year's NFL draft. Alabama head coach Ray Perkins has often referred to him as "the Lawrence Taylor of college football." 
Perkins has also described his nose tackle, Curt Jarvis, as the best at his position In the nation. Cor­nerback Freddie Robinson was another all-league se­lection last season. 

The Tide defense is ranked 13th in the nation 
against the run, but the Irish are sure to attempt to 
establish a ground game similar to that in the Purdue 
game. 

Mark Green, Anthony Johnson and Pernell Taylor 
will get plenty of opportunities grind out yardage as 
Lou Holtz continues to strive for balance in his of­
fense. And with good reason. 
Steve Beuerlein has shown he is very effective when 
opponents can not expect him to pass on nearly 
every down. Alabama cannot be beaten with a one­
sided attack. 
Alabama has a lot of things going for it, but it is 
not time to throw in the towel. 
Notre Dame has put together two good efforts, 
and it almost pulled out a victory against Michigan 
State despite a lesser performance. 
And the Irish have some history on their side. 
The Irish have won all four of the previous meetings 
between the two teams. In I 97.3, the Irish beat the 
top-ranked Tide 24-23 in the Sugar Bowl to claim 
the National Championship. In '74, Alabama was 
again 11-0 and top-ranked and again the Irish ruined 
'Barna's National Title hopes with a 1.3-I I victory. 
Needless to say, Alabama fans feel they have some 
debts to pay. 
Alabama has had a week off to prepare for the 
Irish, and many folks in the South have been waiting 
a lot longer than that to ruffle some Irish feathers. 
With the Irish record at I -2, a loss in Birmingham 
would make it a very long haul to earn any post­
season honors. A win against a team of Alabama's caliber would be a great boost toward establishing a consistent winning season. 
This Is a big game for the Irish. 
Gosh, I just hate that term. 






