Computers -inside 

VOL. XXI, NO. 54 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


South Bend man dies Sunday after being hit bystudent's car 
By MARK PANKOWSKI car was arrested on prelimi­the student's car made a Uiurn News Editor nary charges of driving while on Edison Road and headed intoxicated and driving with an east, police records show. The 
A South Bend man died Sun­expired operator's license, car then struck Moore, who suf­day after being hit Saturday county police records show. fered severe head injuries and night by a car driven by a Notre Both are misdemeanors. was knocked unconscious. Dame student, who was ar­The student has not been for­An officer at the scene of the rested on charges of driving mally charged, according to accident noticed the student while intoxicated. Sgt. Dennis Jay of the St. Joseph had trouble staying awake, ac­
Buddy D. Moore, 52, of 1314 County Police Department. cording to police records. Goodland Ave., died at 10:25 The student could still face Records also show the stu­
a.m. Sunday at St. Joseph's felony charges in connection dent's eyes were bloodshot and Medical Center in South Bend, with the accident, which his speech hard to understand. a hospital administrator said. remains under inv~tigation. The officer also stated he 
Moore was struck at 6:35 County records show the stu­smelled alcohol on the stu­
p.m. as he walked on Edison dent refused a breath-alcohol dent's breath. Road after Saturday's Penn test at the county jail. Under The student agreed to submit State-Notre Dame game, ac­Indiana law, anyone convicted to a breath-alcohol test at the cording to county police of refusing the test will lose his scene, police records show. The records. driving privileges for one year. 
see WRECK, page 3 

The 20-year-old driver of the The accident occurred when 
Senate passes parietals resolution to lessen penalties, increase hours 
By DAVID T. LEE to the proposal. Cintron. News Staff "The Administration refused The resolution also extends to make any distinction be-visitation hours from 11 a.m. to 
The Student Senate unani­tween having sex and staying 10 a.m. daily, and extends Sun­mously passed a parietals pro­in a girl's dorm all night," said day night hours from 12 a.m. posal relaxing penalties for Student Body Vice-President to to 12:30 a.m. parietals violations and Don Montanaro. The Senate also passed a extending visitation hours in a Senator John Gardiner ques-unanimous proposal to make a meeting last night. tioned whether the resolution 12-meal plan available to on­
The parietals resolution was merely "a semantics campus students. states that the suspension or change," adding that the Uni--The proposal would raise the dismissal of a student should versity would argue this resolu-price of the 21-meal plan by 6.6 occur "only in instances where tion is already part of the percent to $810. The 12-meal it is clear that the student acted policy. · plan would have more expen­with knowing and blatant dis­"lf this is their policy, let's sive meals than the 21-meal regard of the University rules make it public," said Mon-plan would, and would cost $620 . . . and of the welfare of the tanaro. per semester. community in general." "When they make a decision "The people who do eat 21 
Parietals violations would (regarding a violation), this meals will pay for what they still be "serious," but "are dis­new policy (the resolution get," said Senator Brian Holst, tinct violations" from those of proposes) can be used," said 
see SENATE, page 6 

the sexuality code, according Judicial Coordinator Maria 

Waite says news of U.S. arms deal 'complicates' hostage negotiations 
Associated Press work no matter what comes our dent Reagan's acknowledg­
way," Waite said. ment last week, after days of 
LONDON -Anglican Church "But the revelation of that speculation, that he sent arms envoy Terry Waite, flanked by fact (arms supplies to Iran) ... supplies to Iran. Reagan three American former has at this point made the job denied the arms were a trade hostages, said Monday that of a mediator such as myself for hostages. news of secret U.S. arms sup­complicated." Waite said ''the speculations plies to Iran and arguments Waite acted in hostage of the past week" surrounding over it complicated his efforts negotiations as personal envoy Reagan's disclosure mean that to free other captives in of Archbishop of Canterbury "from this point onward the Lebanon. Robert Runcie. Runcie accom­task has been made im­
Waite addressect a crowded panied him at the news confer­measurably more difficult." news conference after a ence. He said many of his contacts meeting with the ex-hostages The three ex-hostages, the in Lebanon "have now gone to and with five American repre­Rev. Benjamin Weir, the Rev. ground and they may not sur­sentatives from the Episcopal, Lawrence Jenco, and David face again." Presbyterian and Baptist Jacobsen, former head of the Asked if new initiatives churches. American University Hospital emerged from Monday's 
He denied he has been a tool in Beirut, paid tribute to Waite meeting, Waite said there was of the U.S. administration and and prayed for the release of nothing specific, but the said he had been shuttling to remaining captives. churchmen and ex-hostages and from the Middle East on The meeting appeared had a "great deal to think hostage-release missions un­mainly an attempt to refocus about." aware of the arms supplies. attention on humanitarian Waite and Runcie sought to 
"We in the churches stand release efforts, which have 
see IRAN, page 3 
clearly together to continue our been overshadowed by Presi-
Envoys deny assasination while North Korea is silent 
Associated Press said to lawmakers, "Judging 
from all such circum­

SEOUL, South Korea -A stances, it is believed that South Korean announce­Kim has died or a serious ment of reports that ar­internal power struggle is chenemy President Kim going on there." Sung of North Korea was According to reports in shot dead brought strong Seoul, Kim had set into mo­denials from his overseas tion plans to relinquish envoys Monday but only power to his 44-year-old son, silence from his Communist Kim Jong, creating the first nation. Communist dynasty. The 
Pyongyang, the North reports said senior military Korean capital, was said to commanders in the north op­be calm. posed the succession. 
After a weekend of The elder Kim, 74, came rumors, the South Korean to power in 1948 with the Defense Ministry announced backing of the Soviet Union Monday that North Korean after the peninsula was loudspeakers along the 151-divided at the end of World mile demilitarized zone sep­War II. the 1950-53 Korean arating the two countries war deepened the acrimony had broadcast statements between the two Koreas, and that Kim was shot to death. 40,000 American soldiers are 
Defense Minister Lee Ki­based in South Korea to Baek later went to the Na­prevent a resumption of tional Assembly, where he fighting. 
~----------~~-~~----------------------------------------~------~--------------~-----------~~­
The Observer 


Of Interest 
"Politicians, Parties, and Political Campaigns: Impres­sions from a Recent Visit to Brazil" will be discussed in today's "Brown Bag Seminar" at 12 p.m. in 131 Decio Hall. Speaking will be Scott Mainwaring, senior fellow of Kellogg Institute and assistant professor of government. The lecture is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. -The Observer 
Expo Roma '86, the exhibition of work produced by ar­chitecture students last year in Europe, has been extended to Thursday at the Architecture Building. Everyone is invited to view the collection. -The Observer 
The International Internship Programs is offering a 10­week Japanese Management Training Project with a pos­sible 9-month extension work experience. The training pro­gram includes an orientation, special language training, seminars on Japan's business environment, a two-week field experience, and employment search assistance, all held in Tokyo, Japan. Cost to participate in the training program is $3,950. For more information, contact the In­t:.&rnational Internship Programs, 401 Colman Building, 811 First Avenue, Seattle, Washington, 98104, (206) 623­5539. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 


In Brief 
The curtain for the nth annual Keenan Revue will open Jan. 29 at the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's, according to Revue publicity director Frank Mastro. Ad­ditional perfromances are scheduled for Jan. 30 and 31, also at O'Laughlin. Show times for each night will be 7:30 
p.m. Eddie Leonard will be the producer of the 1987 Revue. 
-The Observer. 
Gimme a Jolt. The latest fad soft drink on the market, Jolt, has all the sugar and twice the caffeine of any other soft drink. The drink that some are calling "liquid speed" has 5.9 milligrams of caffeine per ounce. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Security is investigating the Saturday night theft of a Domino's Pizza delivery car from behind Lyons Hall. Assistant Director of Security Phillip Johnson said the car, a 1977 Oldsmobile valued at $1,000, was stolen as a Domino's employee delivered pizza to Lyons residents at a proximately 1:30 a.m. The thief apparently got into an accident with the stolen car and abandoned it in the parking lot behind the Student Health Center, where Se­curity later recovered it. Johnson estimated damages to the car at about $300. Security said it has no suspects in the case. Anyone with information about the theft should call Security at 239-5555. -The Observer 


Weather 
Surprise, kids, more white stuff! Isn't it about time for a snowball fight boys? There is 60 percent chance of snow Tues­day morning with highs in the mid 30s. Partly cloudy Tuesday night with lows near 20. Mostly cloudy Wednesday with highs in the mid 30s. 


__ __ Ihe-~Dbserver-

Design Editor ........ Alice Kroeger Viewpoint Layout ..... Heidi Traxler 
Design Assistant ........ Bob White Accent Copy Editor . . Gertie Wimmer Layout Staff. ......... Lisa Tugman Typesetters ............. Pat Clark Accent Layout. ......... Carey Gels 
.................... SmedLaboe TypiSt ............... Colleen Fay News Editor . ....... Mary Heilmann NO Day Editor . ..... Alison Pivonka Copy Editor . .......... Karen Webb SMC Day Editor . Theresa Harrington Sports Copy Editor . ..... Pete Gegen Ad Design . ........ Sharon Emmite Viewpoint CopyEditorGertie Wimmer Photographer . ......... Fred Dobie 
Tbr Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 2 



Theodore's perfect for bands if managers can attract talent 
In Chicago it's the Cabaret Metro. Washington D.C. has the 9:30 Club, and Min­neapolis has 7th St. Entry next to First Avenue. 
The Theater Gallery in Dallas usually has the best shows in that city, and of course there's the granddaddy of them all, CBGB in New York City where the Ram ones and the Talking Heads got their start. And the venerable Maxwell's across the river in Hoboken, N.J., is a legend in its own right. 
And then there's our own Theodore's. 
Anyone familiar with the clubs mentioned above might think I'm speaking sarcastically when I include Theodore's on the same page as the other venues. These clubs, the mainstay of America's "underground" music, are charac­terized by a disdain for conventionality. The Theater Gallery, for example, is built in an old warehouse in downtown Dallas, and people are encouraged to add their own "art" to the walls. The bands that play there such as True Believers, Butthole Surfers or Thelonious Mon­ster are as original as they are diverse in sound. 
Theodore's, however, has already had to close for two days due to "damage" inflicted by students. And Notre Dame isn't exactly known for its diversity or daringness. Hence the seeming contradiction in juxtaposing Theodore's and these other clubs. 
The bands coming to such clubs are undoubt­edly the best America has to offer, although they are not well-known to people who only lis­ten to commercial radio. Clubs such as the Metro in Chicago, with its punk clientele and slam-dancing shows, strive to express the op­posite of what is nice, safe and protected. 
Theodore's, with its expensive woodwork and slick furniture and non-alcoholic atmosphere is somewhat like a padded crib in comparison to these other places, but that's OK. It's the music that counts, and anyone interested in the image of a place isn't a real fan. 
Theodore's is the perfect size for a band. I was envious last month while visiting Northwestern's campus in Evanston. There were flyers up for all sorts of good bands such as Game Theory that were playing in the living rooms of fraternities. I wished Notre Dame could attract good underground bands, too, and have them play in a small enough setting to promote personal contact. 
After attending the Wallets show at 

Mary Jacoby 
Accent Editor 




Theodore's last Saturday night, I realized my wish could actually become reality. 
The future of Theodore's success, as I see it, is in the hands of both the managers and the Student Activities Board Musical Entertain­ment Committee. As the Wallets show last Sat­urday night proved, live bands are fun. The Wallets are only a Minneapolis club band-just think what it'll be like to have really innovative underground bands such as Camper Van Bee­thoven or Timbuk 3 playing on campus. 

Before Theodore's there was really no where for such bands to play at Notre Dame-the ACC was way too big, Stepan Center is a barn ac­coustically, and Senior Bar only admits those over 21. There is an endless wealth of good bands out there on independent record labels. Now that we have the means, we ought to bring some of them here so Notre Dame can check out America's grass-roots musical creativity before it passes South Bend by. 

the 

''GOLDEN DOME'' 
in a. B-color limited edition lithograph by 
SCOft L. HERDBIE 
(see it hanging in the OBSERVER office.) edition: 950 artist proofs: 50 Price '30.00 PosT PAID 
Send check or M.O. to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO 1704 Morton Avenue Elkhart, IN 46616 IND. Orders Add 6% Tax/Ship 1 Wk.. 

• 
O.C.R.A. 


INTERNATIONAL EXPERTISE NEEDED 
We are seeking consultants {or firms operating in a variety of foreign countries. ALL initial employment is on a part-time, consultant basis. If the abilities and desires of the individual match the Long term needs of our client firms, permanent, full-time employment is possible. QUALIFICATIONS: Individuals with technical expertise--evidenced by an advanced degree(s)-­who have fluency in a foreign language, and are also thoroughly familiar with the customs and culture of a foreign country. O.C.RA. is an executive search firm specializing in filling both tactical and strategic needs of international firms. For a confidential assessment of your qualifications vis-a-vis our needs, please send resume, including current address and phone number to: 
Overseas Commercial Research Associates 354 St. Francis St. Mobile, Alabama 36602 

The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-Microcomputer Fair Supplement page 1 

Looking for a Christmas re­quest to make to the folks? In­terested in finding a way to be more productive in school while still being able to watch Cheers and do a little partying on Thursday nights? 
The microcomputer fair taking place at the Notre Dame Computing Center on Thursday, November 20 from 9 
a.m. to 4 p.m. provide the the solution to both of the above problems. 
Come See Zenith at 


the Microcomputer Fair 
$999.00 
Suggested retail price: $1499.00 
Ask about our other monochrome and color monitors. 
Special Student Pricing available only from your nearby Zenith Contact(s): 
Fourway Computer Products, Inc. Brian Koch 277-7720 
"What we want to do is give the campus a chance as a whole to see various microcomputers available today," said Scott Cowdrey, assistant director for computing services at the Com­puting Center and the fair's or­ganizer. 
"We want to give potential computer buyers the chance to compare various machines in a hands-on environment," he said. 
The fair will focus on com­puter hardware (the actual machines as opposed to the pro­grams that can run on them) and will feature a variety of brands, according to Cowdrey. 

"There are a number of ven­dors who want to get their foot in the door and sell computers (to Notre Dame community members)," explained Cowdrey. "The fair gives them a chance to come in and show­case their machines." 
And there will be plenty of 
Save up to % on your very own Zenith Personal 
Computer. Make a dramatic comeback to campus this year with any of these exciting Personal Computers from Zenith Data Systems. Now yours-for a short time only-at our Special Student Prices! 
Choose the IBM PC-Compatible Zenith Z-148 PC ... The most popular Zenith PC on U.S. campuses, this one features: 
• 
Compatibility with almost all IBM PC software 

• 
256K4-RAM, upgradable to 640K on main board 

• 
Up to 720K of floppy disk storage 

• 
Aresponse time up to 60% faster than the IBM PC® 



Microcomputer Fair Thurs. Nov. 20 9-4:00 Computing Center Lobby 
in the Comp-Math Bldg. 

zeft4h Z-171 Portable PC 
"'!Wo 5>1" drim "Leo; than lllbs. Special Student Price:$ 999.00 Suggested retail price: $23'!') 00 
The Zenith ZVM· U40 Monochrome Monitor (Shown with Z-1-18 PC above) *less dislorted viewing *f;amM\ hioh ~u'ion 
Special Student Price ·$119,00 Suggested retail price: $1~ 10 
3,,,. ~ data 
~ 1 systems 
THE QUAliTY GOES IN BEFORE THE NAME GOES ON 
•Monitor not included in price. Special pricing offer good only on purchases directly from Zenith Contact(s) listed above by studenll, faculty and staff for their own use. No other discounll apply. Limit one per,.mal com­puter and one monitor per individual in any 
12-month period. Prices subject to change without notice. 
machines on hand for any po­tential computer shopper to test and compare; approxi­mately ten brands of microcomputers are scheduled to be represented at the fair. 
In the past, Notre Dame fac­ulty and students have been limited to buying Apple Com­puter products on campus through the University's par­ticipation in the Apple Consor­tium. Some people, however, have bought other brands of computers that the Computing Center is unable to support, ac­cording to Cowdrey. 
"What's happening is there are a lot of supposed (IBM) clones out there and people are buying them," he said. "Some are good and some are bad. We 
1 

would like to be able to identify 
l

some of the good ones at a good price to recommend." 
Cowdrey explained that the fair will not just be limited to Apple products and IBM PC and compatible hardware. "The new Compaq 386 will be at the fair, and it's the hottest machine on the market," he added. 
Even though the fair is des­cribed as a "hardware fair," Cowdrey said there will be a chance for students to sample various software packages on different machines. 
"Vendors will be running various packages on their mac­hines, and students should feel free to bring along a software package to see if it will run on a certain machine," he said. 1
,
There will be many vendors 
,

at the fair Thursday, but by no .,means will all brands of com­, puters be represented. "The 
1

Computing Center is not en­1 dorsing any of these products , or vendors," Cowdrey said. 
"What we want to do is give the campus a chance as a whole to see various microcom­puters available today." 
-Scott Cowdrey 
If those who attend the fair show particular interest in some of the machines at the fair, it may not be necessary to travel to an off-campus com­puter store to see them again. The Computing Center operates a demonstration room in its basement to allow both potential computer buyers as well as the simply curious to check out the various mac­hines. 
"Our demo facility is on a trial basis; we are just begin­ning it," said Cowdrey. "At the present time we have some machines that were donated to the Computing Center on a per­manent or a temporary basis. Various other vendors, however, have expressed inter­est in leaving a machine in the room." 
Cowdrey expressed op­timism for future fairs if this one seems to be popular with the campus community. "If this goes well and people seem to be enthusiastic, I can see a more expanded function next year," he said. 
Hard Disk Special Student Price ~ 139.00 Suggested retail price: >.:79').00 
Zenith Z-241 Advanced PC "IBM PC!AT" compatibility Single Drive Special Student Price: $1599.00 Suggested retail pnce: $j1')9.00 
Hard Disk Special Student Price: $2299.00 Suggested retall price: $'14'!').00 

Fair to showcase array of micro hardware 

The Observer 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986-Microcomputer Fair Supplement page 2 


Uses of today's micros display versatility 
Bit, byte, CPU, silicon chip. 
What do all of those terms mean? Who cares? respond the majority of personal computer users today. The personal com­puter has found its niche in modern society, not because of its technical users, but because of what those technical users have allowed the computers to do. 
"Never mind all of the mind­boggling electronics at the heart of that little piece of plas­tic and metal called a PC, just tell us what it can do," say many future PC buyers. No longer is the use of the personal computer limited to simple term paper word processing; there is a whole new world of PC-aided functions that can make the life of the college stu­dent and user much easier. 
"Portable computers are now allowing students to bring a computer to class or to the library in order to type in notes instead of writing them," com­mented Scott Cowdrey, assis­tant director for user services at the Notre Dame Computing Center. "That way, a student can incorporate his notes into a paper without having to write anything down on paper." 
With the advent of software 
for virtually every task im­
aginable, convincing the par­
ents a computer is valuable 
should not be a difficult task. 
"I do almost all my work on a computer, both in the office and at home," said Mark Johnson, a consulting program­mer at the Computing Center. "They (computers) are great tools and can really help save time and increase productivity if the user just understands what it can and cannot do." 
According to Johnson, the benefits of a computer are not by any means limited to a few aspects of the student's life. "There are programs on the market that perform just about any task that you can think of,'' he noted. 
Some of these tasks include very specialized areas. There is software on the market that will aid the user in writing music and sometimes even play it for him. There are pack­ages that will allow the archi­tecture student to do his draft­ing on the screen instead of the drawing table. He may even be able to get his work printed on paper in different colors. 

Moving out of the realm of the specialized computer-aided programs, there are in­numerable packages that can aid the ambitious student with his plans to get ahead. 
With the competitive job market today, any knowledge of computer languages and programming is beneficial. Personal computers are per­fect for that learning; there are a number of PC computer lan­guage compilers (the software that allows a computer pro­gram in a certain computer language to work on a comput­er) that are available and affordable to the student user. 
Communication between computers is now becoming more and more commonplace; there are free software pro­grams (along with some that are not free) that will turn your PC into a mainframe computer terminal or allow it to "talk" to other brands of PCs. In the near future, a student with a PC and a modem in his room will be able to call the Memorial Library's computer and retrieve information on ance a checkbook, get informa­books and periodicals. tion on stock market trends, 
Finally, there are other make hotel and airline reserva­everyday, practical uses for a tions, play games and use the personal computer that make computer to figure the odds on it complete as the college stu­Notre Dame's next football dent's perfect tool. One can bal-game. 

TheIBM PC Convertible. It can help you earn a negreeand then earn 
a living. 
Tht> IBM PC Convf'rtihiP ~ivPs you tht> powf'r of an IHM PC in a size you ean takP anywherP. With optional allaehmenls, it Pasily l!onnPcls to otht>r IBM PCs and iHM-compatihiP peripherals. 
With that kind of pnwPr and expandability, you won't have to lf'ave thP PC Convt'rtiblt' behind when you leave campus. You ean carry it ri~ht into your ehosl'n profession. 

MICROCOMPUTER FAIR Computer Center/Math Building Thursday, November 20 9-4pm 
prizes will be given away (limited quantities) 

.............Comeseethe"0 '"........... 
TANDY 1000 EX 
at the Computer Fatr 
IBM PC Compatible but 50o/o FASTER Includes: Built-in 5 V4 " Disk Drive Personal Deskmate Software 
Available at: Radio Shack Computer Center 1827 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
277-3789 

1tad1e lhaeK 
COMPUTER CENTERS 

r r 
r r 
r 
~·· 
r 
r 
r 
Get genuine savings on the genuine article. 

·-~.· 
.•. --~~-• ;-..•••• •• 1".! ........, : 
-~--­
--. --­



__..._,_ 
•• -•. ·~ .• t. : --;· 

Now you can save money and still get all the benefits of owning an ffiM PC. Like ffiM quality. And access to all the programs written for the ffiM PC family. 
We're offering our best price ever on a real ffiM Personal 
Computer-complete with two diskette drives, monochrome 
monitor and adapter. 
And that's a real deal. 
MICROCOMPUTER FAIR COMPUTER CENTER/MATH BUILDING 
THURSDAyI NOVEMBER 20 9AM-4PM 

PRIZES WILLBEGIVENAWAY (limited quantities) 

The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-Microcomputer Fair Supplement page 3 

Considering individual needs important for word processing 
The days of messy liquid paper and and worn-out type­writer ribbons are on their way out. 
Word processing is one of the most important and widely used function of the college stu­dent's personal computer. On any given night before classes, the personal computer labs across the Notre Dame campus 

Sample Word Processing Software Prices 
Prices in Dollars 
500.----------------------------------------. 400 
Macwrite Word (t.tac) Nota Bene Word Perfect PC-Write 
Software Packages 
baaed on prices available to NO students 

This holiday season, get the''Write Stuff' at the right price. 
Now you can get the competitive edge when classes begin in January. With a Macintosh™ personal computer, and all the write extras. 
We call it the Macintosh "Write Stuff' bundle. You'll call it a great deal! Because when you buy a Macintosh "Write Stuff' bundle before January 9, 1987, you'll receive a bundle of extras-and save $250. · 
Not only will you get your choice of a Macintosh 512K Enhanced or a Macintosh Plus, you'll also get an ImageWriter™ II printer, the perfect solution for producing near letter-quality term papers or reports, complete with 
graphs, charts, and illustrations. 
Plus, you'll get MacLightning, the premier spelling checker containing an 80,000 word dictionary with options for thesaurus, 
Macintosh Plus Bundle 
Includes: Macintosh Plus Computer, ImageWriter II Printer, MacWrite, MacLightning Spelling Checker, and Macintosh Support Kit. 
$1,910.00 

For a limited time, Apple will be offering a very special upgrade program available to current owners of Macintosh 128K computers. Ifyou own a Macintosh 128K this is your opportunity to upgrade to a 512K Enhanced for as little as $343. Inquire at Notre Dame Computing Center. 
Notre Dame University For more information contact: Computing Center, Room 25 239-7477 
Sponsored by Notre Dame University Computing Center and Apple Computer, Inc. 
•OJ!~ Good wmk Sltf'Piicsl...tul. C/986/tppk CtJnlfJ"ler,ltte. Applf aNIIM Appk Logo are ngiSltrrd tmdemarb ofApple Comp~Uer,l~tc. Maci111mlt dlldiiMReWrilcrarr: lnldmwJri.r ofApple CClff'9*(er,f~. Mat:Ligll.lni"l i.1 a trddl:rntvk. ofTiJ~I Softwtuc,/11£. ® 

are packed with students who have given up the drudgery of the typewriter for the ease and convenience of the PC. 
But with all of the conveni­ence of the computer comes the confusion of choosing the word processing package that suits an individual's needs the best. However, choosing word-pro­cessing software should be as 
medical, or legal dictionaries. Together with your 
favorite Macintosh word processing software, you can 
transform your notes into the clearest, most Jetter perfect papers you ever 
turned out. And turned in on 
time. 

What's more, there's a Macintosh Support Kit filled with valuable accessories and computer care products from 3M.* Complete with all the things you need to keep your Macintosh running long after you've graduated. 
Let us show 
you how to get through college better, faster, and smarter. Stop in 
and see us for more information. 
Macintosh 512E Bundle 
Includes: Macintosh512K Enhanced Computer, ImageWriter II Printer, MacWrite, MacLiglztning Spelling Checker, and Macintosh Support Kit. 
$1,550.00 
easy as defining one's needs. The major difference between the cheaper and more expen­sive packages is the power they offer the user. Usually, the cheaper the package, the fewer the options it offers. One pack­age may only offer simple text formatting while another may offer automatic footnoting, dif­ferent typefaces and the ability to do form letters with reasonable ease. 
When thinking about what word processor to begin working with, one needs to find a package he is comfortable with, will do what he needs and will allow him room for expan­sion. On today's PC market • there are two basic types of computers: the Apple and the IBM PC and compatibles. 
At Notre Dame the Apple Macintosh is extremely popular with students because it is offered to them at special prices through the Apple Con­sortium. Along with the Mac comes a very simple word pro­cessing package called Macwrite. It offers the user who has never been on a com­puter before the chance to do some professional looking doc­uments, in literally an hour. 
Macwrite's main advantage is its ease of use, but it does manage to offer some fancy typefaces and differing point sizes to the user. Macwrite used along with an Apple LaserWriter and various spell­checking programs can produce some papers that any student would be proud of. 
Macintosh users are not lim­
ited to Macwrite, however. 
Microsoft Word is another 
package that utilizes the Mac's 
user-friendly features but in 
more powerful fashion. Word is 
more expensive than Macwrite 
and its powerful features take 
a considerably longer time to 
learn, but it does provide more 
power. Some standard word 
functions are automatic foot­
noting, mail merge (form let­
ter) capability and alternating 
margin sizes. Microsoft Word 
is the perfect package for the 
Mac thesis writer. 
There are even more word 
processing packages for the 
IBM PC and compatibles. PC­
Write is an easy-to-learn, basic 
packages for the PC. It's use is 
limited to base word process­
ing functions. However, the 
newer version has a spelling­
checker and is considerably 
cheaper than other more pow­
erful packages. 
The next step up in PC word 
processing would be to pack­
ages such as Displaywrite3 and 
Microsoft Word. Displaywrite3 
offers the user many varying 
functions and formattings 
along with an automatic spell 
check. Microsoft Word for the 
PC is similar to the Macintosh 
version and offers compatible 
power to the PC user. 
Finally, there are packages 
for the PC such as Nota Bene 
and Word Perfect that offer the 
user the power to do almost any 
word processing task im­
aginable, including writing in 
other languages. Mail merges 
and spell checking are also 
readily available for the more 
powerful packages. 
When thinking about plung­
ing into the modern world of 
PC wordprocessing, students 
and users should keep all of 
these various word processing 
packages in mind. 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986-Microcomputer Fair Supplement page 4 
The Observer 
. 
---·­

MICROCOMPUTER FAIR 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1986 
~DmPAQ' 

HYPERDRIVE•· 




9:00 A.M. TO 4:00 P.M. COMPUTING CENTER LOBBY 
APPLE, AT&T, COMPAQ, DYNA, H-P, IBM, KAYPRO, TANDY, TELEX, ZENITH 
-



--=-.! 
~~\~==~­
data
---1 systems
1 
. 

Sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Computing Center, User Services 
This event is not an endorsement of any kind of any products or vendor. 
~~~GENERAL 
=-.COMPUTER 





7'*''H 

WILMES 

SYSTEMS 
INC 


• 
Quality IBM-compatible computers at moil-order prices 

• 
Free on-campus service with 48-hour turnaround guarantees 

• 
See our exhibit at the Computer Fair featuring: 


.-..-----­

------computers
~ ~-­

Canon Ink Jet Printers 

C. ltoh Loser Printers Xerox Desktop publishing software ATI EGA Wonder· universal video adopter 
I 

Jim Wilmes 300 North Michigan class of 75 South Bend President 234-7688 
-----------------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 3 

Scholastic discusses distribution problems 

____, 
The magazine is presently called Scholastic, Notre Dame's Student Magazine. 
"It must remain a Notre Dame name, otherwise Notre Dame will pull out funding," Mouasher said. He said that they receive a budget of about $60,000 from Notre Dame and have 1,100 subscribers at $10 per person from Saint Mary's. 
In regard to the problem of distribution, the Scholastics were forwarded to the mail of­fice, which was then respon­sible to get them to the stu­dents, according to Mouasher. "There was a problem with the list sent to the mail office. Now they've assured us there will be no problem." 
"That seems like it's putting an awful lot of pressure on the mailroom. It is a subcription, why can't you get it to us as a subscription like you do with 
the alumni?" asked Betsy 
Burke, vice president of aca­
demic affairs and college rela­
tions. 
"We will have to send some­

one down to make sure you get 
them. We are trying to get the 
best system possible," said 
Mouasher. "If you don't get the 
magazine by Friday or Satur­
day call us so we get feedback. 
We are trying hard to make it 
timely," said Lipo. 
In other business, although the results of the student gov­ernment survey have not been officially tabulated, Heller said they indicate many students do not know who their student gov­ernment representatives are. The survey also indicates people who are not involved do not want to be involved. 
Last Sunday the library was 

opened at 11 a.m. on an experi­
mental basis. Heller said she 
was pleased at the turnout. Stu­
dents were using every floor, 
she said. 
"I think we have something 

to work with. The students ex­
hibited a desire for a change in 
library hours. Our goal is to try 
and increase hours on every 
Sunday. The problem is with 
the library staff. They don't 
want to come in earlier." Hel­
ler suggested cutting an hour 
off Friday and Saturday nights 
to compensate. 
Heller also announced that 

the Ad Hoc committee on stu­
dent diversity is organizing. 
This is a group of professors 
and students interested in 
looking at student diversity, 
economically, socially and cul­
turally, she said. "They are 
looking at different types of stu­
dents to attract and why we'd 
want to bring them here," said 
Heller. 
breath-alcohol test, according to police records. The student refused the test several times and was arrested. 
He was released from the county jail later Saturday night on $100 bond. 
Moore is survived by two brothers, a · stepsister, a stepbrother, and his mother. 

U.S. Army Chief of Staff Gen. John Wickham 
most events during Wickham's stay, includingis greeted by Chinese Army Gen. Song an elaborate welcome ceremony, would be 
Wenzhong, head of the Defense Ministry's closed to western newsmen. 

By SHARON HEGG News Staff 
Representatives from Scholastic magazine met with the Saint Mary's Board of Governance last night to dis­cuss distributional problems at Saint Mary's and the represen­tation of Saint Mary's in the magazine. 
Maher Mouasher, editor-in­chief, said this year the empha­sis is to cover global issues such as male1emale relation­ships, off-campus life, and sports. But they "are not spe­cifically covering either school. We are trying to create a balance." 
"You said you are trying to strike up a balance with Saint Mary's. When will we see changes?" asked Patty Cur­ran, senior class president. 
According to Mouasher let­ters were sent out to all depart­ments at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to send informa­tion. Jeanne Heller, student body president, said student government did not receive this letter. 
"This is the first year in 15 years that the magazine has been published weekly. There have been problems. We are trying to resolve them from this point,'' said Mouasher. 
"In the article about stress on college only Notre Dame students were interviewed. Also, nothing was said about the inauguration of William Hickey," said Heller. 
Mouasher explained that 
"the whole thing (the inaugura­
tion) was taking place when we 
were getting started up." 
"We should have interviewed 
more people at Saint Mary's. 
But that's what we're moving 
towards. Trying to get a firm 
base," said Frank Lipo, news 
editor. 
"We were not aware in the 
beginning of the year that the 
Saint Mary's editor had been 
abolished," said Kathleen 
Dailey, public relations com­
missioner. 
"Why is there no need for a 
Saint Mary's editor? You can 
see we have problems," added 
Curran. 
"We'd really like Saint 
Mary's participation," said 
Mouasher. "We recruited at 
activities night and a few 
hundred from Notre Dame 
were interested while only a 
handful from Saint Mary's 
were interested." 
Mouasher said the interest 
shown by Saint Mary's stu­
dents in Scholastic will "unfor­
tunately" not result in a name 
change for the magazine. 


Wreck 
continued/rom page 1 
results of the test were not released. 
The student was taken tothe county jail, where he was asked to submit to a different type of 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
-----~-~ ---~---·--~-----·-----------------~-----~-~~--.........--------~ 
The Observer 
Try this on for size 
Strikers in suburban Manila picket outside Rubberworld, makers of shoes and other rubber products, during a general strike Mon­day protesting the brutal slaying of labor leader Rolando Olalia. The sign calls for the resignation of Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile. 

No tradeoff on Star Wars, Weinberger says to NATO 
Associate!l Press 
WASHINGTON -Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said Monday the United States would never trade "Star Wars" or balanced conventional strength in Europe for a new arms control accord with the Soviet Union. 
In an address prepared for delivery to a symposium here on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Weinberger said the United States and its European allies desired deep reductions in offensive ballistic nuclear missiles. 
But regardless of whether such an accord is negotiated, he said, Western alliance must continue improving its conven­tional strength. 
"In any event, we can never leave the equation of deter­rence unbalanced by taking out some effective deterrents with­out replacing them with other deterrents," Weinberger said. 
The defense secretary ap­peared before a symposium on NATO, which was sponsored by the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis. A text of his speech was released in advance at the Pentagon. 
Weinberger spoke just a few hours after meeting West Ger­man Defense Minister Manfred Woerner, who is in Washington for consultations with Ameri­can officials. Woerner told reporters after his meeting with Weinberger that the West­ern allies could not match Soviet-bloc conventional strength if all nuclear weapons were eliminated. 
"The more we limit and restrain nuclear possibilities the more important it becomes also to correct that conven­tional imbalance, preferably by arms control and disarma­ment," Woerner said. 
Weinberger, following the lead of other administration of­ficials, said Monday that Pres­ident Reagan had focused his 
recent Iceland summit on the goal of eliminating intercon­
tinental ballistic missiles. 

th~f: A~h\~~~~ :;::don:~dw~~~ 
speakable power, that should
be at the core of arms reduc­tions agreements,"
Weinberger said. "Certainly all nuclear weap­
ons threaten massive destruc­tion, but only ballistic missiles threaten to overwhelm us in the 
blink of an eye."
The defense secretary lauded Reagan for refusing to 
bow to Soviet demands to cur­
~~rs;,ese:~~~mi~~il:hede·;:~~~ 
system, describing that Soviet 
position as ''insistence that the 
~n~~~~~~ 
defending itself." 
While America's NATO allies have reminded the United States that nuclear weapons help compensate for 
smaller conventional armies, "I would prefer to stress the Vital importance Of improving our conventional forces 
regardless of whether we achieve deep reductions," Weinberger said. 

Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 4 
Reagan: no more arms to Iran 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan said Monday he has "absolutely no plans" to send more arms to Iran, although his spokesman said the presi­dent's authorization for the weapons shipments technically remains in effect. 
As he posed for pictures at the start of a meeting with Ar­gentine President Raul Alfon­sin, Reagan was asked if there would be more U.S. arms ship­ments to Iran like those he con­firmed last week after numerous published reports of secret U.S.-Iranian dealings. 
"We have absolutely no plans to do any such thing," Reagan told reporters. Nor, he said, would he be firing Secretary of State George Shultz or any other top foreign policy ad­visers as a result of public con­troversy over the covert oper­ation. 
Presidential spokesman Larry Speakes, meanwhile, said Reagan had told him there would be no further arms ship­ments but that the "intel­ligencefinding," aJan.17docu­ment authorizing the weapons and spare parts sales, is techni­cally "still in effect" because it carried no time limit and has not been rescinded. 
The spokesman also said the Iranians paid cash for the mil­itary supplies they received un­der Reagan's order, although neither the amount nor the precise weaponry supplied has been disclosed. 
The Iranians long have been seeking a variety of weapons and spare parts for their U.S.­made planes and equipment or­dered and paid for during the reign of the Shah of Iran, but whose delivery was blocked when the U.S. embassy in Teh­ran was seized and Americans were taken hostage. 
Speakes said that despite the halt in further arms shipments, which Reagan has said were in­tended to establish credibility with Iranians the United States was trying to court, verbal ef­forts to improve relations with moderate Iranian leaders may continue. 
"Certainly we would like to continue our original goal, and that was to develop contacts with Iran so that we could deal with that country in the fu­ture," Speakes said. "We would be hopeful that we could, on some basis, continue our contacts in order to develop that and to work for a peaceful resolution to the Iran-Iraq war." 
Asked about a suggestion by Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, Said Rajaie Khorassani, that the United States must supply weapons to Iran if it wants Iran to help win the release of Americans still held hostage in Lebanon, Speakes said: "We will not trade arms for hostages." 
Khorassani, in an interview with IRNA, the official Iranian news agency, said Reagan had negotiated with Iran for release of hostages because of Tehran's "power and influ­ence" over kidnap groups. 
Reagan has insisted that al­though the United States sought Iranians' help in freeing the hostages as a measure of their willingness to deal with the United States, there was never a ransom paid for the three hostages who were released during the period the secret diplomacy and arms shipments were taking place. 
On Sunday, Shultz said he would oppose sending more arms to Iran but that he spoke only for himself and not for the Rer.gan administration in that regard. His statement was widely interpreted as an indi­cation he and the president were at odds over Iran policy, particularly the secret weap­ons shipments during a public arms embargo. 

DOGBOOK PHOTOS 



ALL JUNIORS: 
IF YOU MISSED YOUR DORM'S SCHEDULED TIME FOR DOGBOOK PICTURES, SHOW UP TODAY IN 3rd FLOOR LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 4-9 PM. BE AS SERIOUS OR CRAZY AS YOU WANT!! 


talks with soviet leader Mik-lr~3~E~~~~~~==~::~;;~~~;;;;;;;;~;;;~F1
hail Gorbachev during the 

WORLQ WRESRING"Wj@. FEDERATION .. PRESENTS 
TOMORROW NIGHT PROMPTLY AT 7 30 PM 
® : 

ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER 
''EX-PARTNERS COLLIDE.•.•" 
WWF HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION 

HULK HOGAN 
VS 

"MR WONDERFUL" 
PAUL ORNDORFF * SPECIAL OPENING MAIN EVENT * 

TITO SANTANA 
~ 


MALA "THE UGANDAN HEADHUNTER'' 
. PLUS 18 MATCHES FEATURING ALL THE TOP WWF STARS AS: RANDY SAVAGE, KOKO B. WARE, HERCULES HERNADEZ, THE BRITISH BULLDOGS, NIKOLAI VOLKOFF, AND MORE!! LIVE "PIPER'S PIT" 
Tickets on sale at A.C. C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS (Mish. & Elkhart), ST. JOSEPH BANK (Main Office), NIGHTWINDS (Mish. & Niles), JR's (LaPorte), MUSIC MAJIC (Benton Harbor), JUST FOR THE RECORD (T&C.Shopping Centre) 

------------------~~----------~ ---~ ------------------~------, 
The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 5 


The Observer /Fred Dobie 
renovated LaFortune Student Center. Although studying is not often enjoyable, the aesthetic surroundings make it somewhat less painful. 



Balloons used to repair heart valves 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Tiny balloons have been used for the first time to open dangerously narrowed heart valves in a procedure that costs one-third as much as surgery and could help an esti­mated 50,000 Americans an­nually, doctors said Monday. 
The procedure, which was first tried only last year and has already spread to at least 15 medical centers in the United States, has proven ef­fective in patients who were too old or too sick to undergo valve­replacement surgery, and who thus had no other hope of sur­viving, said Dr. William Gros­sman of Harvard University, one of the developers of the technique. 
The new technique is an im­
portant extension of the use of 
balloons to clear deposits of 
fats and cholesterol from 
clogged arteries, a procedure 
first done in 1980. About 50,000 of those procedures are now performed in the United States each year, in place of more ex­pensive and riskier coronary bypass surgery. 
Grossman reported at the an­nual meeting of the American Heart Association that he has used the procedure success­fully on 76 patients with heart valve problems during the past 13 months. 
All 76 survived the proce­dure; three died within one week of the treatment, but they did not die as a result of the treatment, Grossman said. "We feel that we were too late with too little in these 'three patients," he said. 
Charles McKay of the Los Angeles County Hospital and the University of Southern Cal­ifornia said he has had no deaths in the first 22 patients he has treated, although some required blood transfusions 

ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE PRESENTS: 
First Annual Respect Life 
Mass and Dinner 

Saturday, December 6th 5pm Mass: with Bishop John D'Arcy 
Saturday, December 6th 
6:30 Dinner: North Dining Hall with speaker Professor Douglas Kmiec, US Attorney General, on Respect for Life and Respect for the Law: Are They the Same? 
Tix on sale this week in dining halls $8 per person 
and suffered some damage to their arteries as the balloon was threaded through the ar­teries into their hearts. 
Grossman said that hospitals performing the new procedure, called balloon valvuloplasty, have been "flooded with refer­rals for this." 
He warned, however, that the procedure is still experimen­tal. "There have been deaths and there will be more," he said. 
In the procedure, a wire is inserted into a vein in the leg and is threaded into the heart, under the guidance of X-ray images of the blood vessels. 
A balloon is then threaded along the wire until it is inside the narrowed valve. The bal­loon is then inflated with fluid to a pressure about twice that of the air in automobile tires, forcing the valve open. 

Astronauts in shuttle for practice countdown 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­Astronauts will board a space shuttle Tuesday for the first time since the Challenger acci­dent for a practice countdown that will help launch teams maintain proficiency during a long flightless period. 
Five veteran space travelers will settle into the cabin of At­lantis, perched on launch pad 39B, for the final two hours of a rehearsal that will end with simulated ignition of the main engines. 
On Thursday, a team of seven rookie astronauts will board Atlantis to participate in an emergency crew escape ex­ercise. 
The drills will conclude seven weeks of launch pad tests for Atlantis, which will be moved back to a hangar on Saturday. 
The exercises mark the last chance that astronauts and launch teams will have to shar­pen their skills with a shuttle on the pad until Discovery is rolled out of storage to be readied for the next shuttle launch, now set for Feb. 18, 1988. 
The three remaining shuttles have been grounded since Chal­lenger exploded 73 seconds after liftoff last Jan. 28, killing the crew of seven. A faulty joint between segments of a solid fuel booster rocket that caused the accident is being redesigned. 
The tests provide "a chance for a morale boost right in the center of this letdown, and there has been a letdown,'' said Conrad Nagel, NASA director of shuttle flow operations. 
The five astronauts who board Atlantis on Tuesday will be the same ones who flew the last successful shuttle mission, Columbia, which ended just 10 days before the Challenger tragedy. 
They are commander Charles Gibson, pilot Charles Bolden and mission specialists George Nelson, Steven Hawley and Franklin Chang-Diaz. Two non-astronauts who flew on that flight, Rep. Bill Nelson, D­Fla., and RCA engineer Robert Cenker, will not take part. 
The countdown will involve teams at the launch control center here and at mission con­trol at the Johnson Space Cen­ter in Houston. 
Thursday's crew-escape test will last about three hours as the seven astronauts and doz­ens of fire and rescue workers run through every aspect of emergency pad operations. 
During the exercise, a launch emergency will be declared and some of the astronauts will · feign injury. Workers will pull the astronauts from the cabin and take them from the pad to nearby helicopters. Stand-ins for the "injured" crew mem­bers will be flown to hospitals in Gainesville and Titusville. 
The stand-ins will be flight surgeons from the Johnson cen­ter who will evaluate emer­gency room procedures at the two hospitals. 
"The main purpose is to ex­ercise the escape system and the people who participate in it," said NASA test director Frank Merlino. "We think the basic system we have is very good, but there are always areas of improvement. We want to make observations and start working on some im­provements." 
The astronauts participating in the escape test will be com­mander Frank Culbertson, pilot Stephen Oswald, mission specialists Carl Meade, Kathryn Thornton and David Low and payload specialists Pierre Thuot and Jerome Apt. 

120 arrested during nuclear protest 
Associated Press 
At least 120 people were ar­rested Monday at demonstra­tions against nuclear weapons ­testing in Washington and at the nation's testing grounds in Nevada, authorities said. 
Several hundred protesters blocked entrances to the Federal Department of Energy in Washington, and police esti­mated between 60 and 100 of them were arrested. 
At Mercury, Nev., some protesters briefly delayed 

Eye Exams 
ProfessionalVISion 

Large Selection of Frames
Dr. Ronald L. Snyder 
All Types of Contacts 





20% DISCOUNT 
TO STUDENTS AND FACULTY 

1341 Portage
1635 N.lroawood 
234-2400

277-1161 
Martins Shopping Ceater
South of U.S. 23 
buses carrying workers onto the sprawling test site by kneel­ing down in a roadway in front of the vehicles. Others, includ­ing actor Martin Sheen, were arrested when they stepped across a white line on the road leading to the test site gate. Police said there were at least 60 arrests there. 
Department of Energy spokesman Jim Boyer said of the Nevada protesters: "everybody got to work on time. There was no problem from that standpoint." 
Boyer estimated 100 demonstrators turned out. Those arrested were placed on a bus and taken to Beatty, Nev., where they face various charges, including trespassing. 
Members of the protest group cheered when one of the activists announced that six buses had been delayed 15 minutes by the protest. Boyer said some buses were delayed briefly, but said it was more like five minutes while guards arrested demonstrators. 
The buses carry thousands of workers to the desert test site daily from Las Vegas, 65 miles to the southeast. 
In Washington, the protesters chanted "heal the earth" and "stop testing now" as they sat in the department's driveway and at various entrances to the building, pre­venting department employees from going to their jobs. The arrests were made without in­cident and department employees began entering the building ahout 10:30 a.m. 
Molly Rush, of a group called Plowshares, told the demonstrators that people sup­port President Reagan's anti­missile defense project known as "Star Wars" out of a sense of fear and a sense of hopeless­ness. 

SObering AdviCe:= 

can savealife\· 
Think Before You Dr1nk 
4

Before You Dr1ve 

Associated Press 
PORT ELIZABETH, South Africa -Police used dogs and rubber whips to disperse strikers outside the General Motors plant Monday, and the company said those who stay off the job will be fired. 
The automaker gave strikers a deadline of 9 a.m. Tuesday to return to work. The walkout began Oct. 29 in this depressed industrial city on the Indian Ocean, where GM is the largest employer. 
Sixteen workers were ar­rested during the clash with police at the plant gate and released on bail of 100 rand ($45) each without formal charges, their union said. 
Police said about 300 strikers were intimidating workers who wanted to go to their jobs inside the plant. 
Employees struck over demands for compensation from the American parent company after General Motors announced plans to sell its South African operation to local management. 
Although the strike began as 
Iran 
continued from page 1 
distance church efforts from the maneuverings of politicians. 
"At the international level governments always have, and no doubt will continue, to strike 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
author of the proposal. 
Students who opt for the new 12-meal plan "are going to have to specify meals," said Execu­tive Coordinator Mike Jaeger. 
Senator John Bauer said he thought the resolution would "limit what off-campus stu­dents can do" as far as arrang­ing their meal plans. 
----~---~------------~--~ ~­
The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 6 

Pope's Bangladesh visit receives criticism that it 'undermines' Islam 

Associated Press 
DHAKA, Bangladesh Fundamentalist Moslems said Monday, two days before Pope John Paul II arrives, that Chris­tian missionaries undermine Islam and take advantage of misery and ignorance in this desperately poor country. 
Most Islamic leaders, however, said the pope was welcome in Bangladesh, which counts only about 280,000 Chris­tians among its 103 million citizens. Most Moslems, who make up 86 percent of the pop­ulation, appeared either indif­ferent to the visit or mildly ap­proving. 
The criticism of Christians was the first in connection with the papal trip to Bangladesh, which is considered moderate and relatively tolerant. Chris­tians are generally admired for their schools, hospitals and good works among the poor in this crowded country. 
No unfavorable comment has been directed against the pope or his visit. 
He will spend a day in Bangladesh, celebrating Mass for an expected crowd of about 50,000 people and ordaining 20 priests. He will meet Moslem, Hindu and Christian leaders and Roman Catholic bishops. 
"People of all religions must be alert to the ominous activi­ties of the Christian mis­sionaries in order to safeguard their own survival," the news­paper Inquilab (Liberty) said Monday. 
Maulna Mannan, the religi­ous affairs minister, owns the paper, which has a cir~ulation of 25,000. Most of its readers are conservative religious leaders and teachers. 
"The missionaries are con­verting the poor and illiterate people in underdeveloped areas and taking advantage of their ignorance," the paper said in a front-page article. 
Missionaries have concen­trated their work among poor tribal people and untouchables and other low Hindu castes, not in the Moslem community. The newspaper said Moslems also had been converted, however, and claimed there are 400,000 Christians in Bangladesh, most of them converts. 

It said missionaries encour­age tribal people to abandon their traditions and adopt a Western life style. 
"This new way of life has caused sexual perversion among tribal youths and many are now suffering from a range of sex-related diseases," it said. 
Some conservative Moslem leaders echoed the criticism of Christian missionaries. Most recommended a restrained welcome for John Paul. 
"It would not be proper for any Moslem country to accord a rousing reception to the pope," said Zafarullah Khan, secretary of the Jihad <Holy War) Affairs department of the fundamentalist Khelafat Party. He added that mission­ary work is directed "mainly at undermining the faith of other religions, particularly Is­lam." 
John Paul is welcome "and we don't want to interfere" with Christians, said Matiur Rahman, secretary of the fun­damentalist Jamat-1-Islami party. 

Strikers in South Africa dispersed 
a wildcat action, the National Automobile and Allied Workers Union has endorsed the workers' demands. GM says it will not discuss the issues until the strike ends. 
Bob White, the GM managing director, said about one-third of the 2,000 strikers returned to work Monday and the company also would consider rehiring most of the 567 fired for holding a plant sit-in two weeks ago. He is an American who will leave when the sale takes effect Jan. 1. 
He said limited production had resumed, but the plant was running at far below its normal output of 150 cars a day. 
A prolonged confrontation would be a severe blow in Port Elizabeth. It is the nation's most depressed city and Ford has moved its vehicle produc­tion to Pretoria. 
Most of the strikers are of mixed race or black. 
Unrest in the black townships and periodic black boycotts of white stores have increased the damage to the economy. 
White said 40 to 60 workers who had committed or encour­aged violence during the strike would not be rehired. 

"If the union is going to hold out on that, it's going to be a long day," he told reporters. "That says they condone vio­lence." 
Union leader Freddie Sauls said there were no plans for talks and "there's actually no communication." He said no membership meeting was planned until the company's Tuesday deadline. 
Sauls took a grim view of the police action earlier Monday. "I'm convinced we could hold out against GM," he said, "but we can't hold out against the security forces." 
A police spokesman said about 1,000 people were outside the plant when officers arrived and ordered them to disperse. He said many moved away, but about 300 stayed, chanting slogans and interfering with workers trying to enter the plant. 
"We then had no alternative but to disperse them, using police dogs and sjamboks (rubber whips)," he said. 
Speak no evil 
AP Photo Memb~rs of the Politburo of the Soviet Union cast their votes at the Supreme Soviet meeting. Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev, front, appears to be satisfied with his decision, but his cohort in the top row seems somewhat less sure. 

-----~.-~,·----l~).i11K~,_;-·~~~
International Students I 
are cordially invited to a 
$ trabitional. ~omr-cookrb m~anlt.&giuing IJinnrr 
ITues•• Nov. 25, 6:30 pm at the CBF campus house ., 19525 Pendle. Space is limited. Call277-8471 ~ for reservatio~s. ~-•­
1
Short Bible message and program and message following . :~ the dinner. fl 
Sponsored by the Campus Bible Fellowship ~:, 
.,,:-.;--~~~_-,J.II~!P..W:-.siru._J~~-i~! 
Are you considering professional school? 

HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT 
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. 
Come Learn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's 
Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Master in Public Policy or City and Regional Planning Degree. 
Joint Degree Options and Cross-Registration Opportunities with Other Schools 
Meet with a Kennedy School Representative 
DATE: Thursday, November 20 
TIME: 10:00 & 11:00 groups 
LOCATION: Please contact your Career Placement Office for this information. 
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! 
bargains both in secret and in public," said Waite. 
"As a representative of the church, I would have nothing to do with any deal which seemed to me to breach the code to which I subscribe." 
Weir, 61, the first of the three American hostages freed by Is­lamic Jihad in Lebanon, was let go Sept. 14, 1985, after 18 months in captivity. Jenco, 50, also held 18 months, was freed last July 26. Jacobsen, 54, held 17 months, was freed Nov. 2. 

Two other Americans held with them, Terry Anderson, chief Middle East correspon­dent of The Associated Press, and Thomas Sutherland, a uni­versity administrator, are still being held. 
"The situatiOn with on­campus and the situation with off-campus students is so in­consistent," said Jaeger. 
Holst said any proposal that was not "revenue neutral," meaning it neither made nor lost money, would fail. As a result, it was difficult to incor­porate a plan to encompass off­campus students, who will keep the various meal plans avail­able to them now. 
In other matters, Theodore's General Manager Vince Willis said the damage sustained by the non-alcoholic bar "would be taken from the entertain­

ment budget."  
"We  cannot  absorb  $2,000  
worth  of  damage  every  
weekend,"  said  Willis.  "Stu­ 

dents have to take some re­sponsibility." 
Willis said Notre Dame Se­curity would be at Theodore's from now on. 
--·­

-·~~-~-------~··----~--_,··------~~~ 









"ieVV~_O_i_D__t______________
Tue-sday-,Nov-emb-erls_,19s_s-pa-ge7 
Improvement is sought for checkmark system 
Again I invade the columns of The Observer to apologize to students. For reasons that remain unfathomable, the Registrar has chosen not to checkmark one, perhaps two, of my popular under­graduate courses scheduled for the spring, leaving it to the so-called Uni­versity Priority System to limit enroll­ments to a teachable level. Invocation of the UPS will exclude some students who imagine that they have preregis­tered for my courses. I feelrotten about this, but since I'm paid to teach respec­table courses, I don't know what I can do about it except to apologize to those excluded. 
Bob Kerby 
guest column 

The history department thought it had solved the problem. The depart­ment sent the Registrar a letter justify­ing checkmarking for certain popular courses. The Registrar's guidelines al­low for such exceptions. Receiving no response, the history department as­sumed that its petition would be respected. The preregistration course booklet--which neither checkmarked the department's courses, nor pub­lished the maximum enrollment the history department would accept for each course, nor explained the UPS for the benefit of students trying to figure out what is going on--was history's first and only clue that its petition had been rejected. Damned if we know why! (The Registrar is not known for the alacrity with which his office responds to appeals from the depths of the Outer Darkness. I'm still waiting for an an­swer to a deferential inquiry I mailed to him, through channels, on May 14, 1984. That's the last time I bothered with channels. 
Conversations with an assistant registrar indicate that some weeks will pass before history has a chance to fig­ure out who will, and who will not, be admitted to oversubscribed courses. For students who might wish to start worrying early, my own priorities are, in descending order: history majors, seniors, juniors, sophomores, and et­ceteras. Students who preregistered for my courses will probably find out in early January whether preregistration meant anything. I hope that those who find themselves scrambling for substi­tute courses at registration will appre­ciate that the history department is not populated by mindless sadists who en­joy torturing students or who think the UPS arrangement is sane. 
So far, the Registrar's sole justifica­tion for rejecting checkmarks and turn­ing to the UPS is contained in a February memorandum attributing the decision to the Provost's Deans' Committee. That justification was repeated to a representative of the Fac­ulty Senate who inquired. But in the interim, the provost told the press that deans and other administrators are chosen as executors of administration policy, not as originators or architects of policy. 
Thanks to the Provost's public ack­nowledgement of reality, the quaint no­tion that the deans and other adminis­trators who stuff most of the "representative" bodies in this charis­matic autocracy that represents fac­ulty opinion is no longer tenable. 
Whatever the Provost's cronies advise regarding the relative merits of check­marking and the UPS, I, a teacher, don't give a toot. The new preregistra­tion system is unfair to students and to the teaching faculty. It is doubly unfair because the Registrar has not seen fit to explain the system either to students or to the teaching faculty. And for that matter, it is triply unfair because cer­tain departments (theology) seem able to checkmark anything they want to checkmark, while others (history) can't checkmark a damn thing. 
One expects a new system to exhibit flaws when it is first introduced. The UPS was sprung on us all, as a surprise, last spring. It had flaws. Some of us employed various means to turn the ad­ministration's attention to those flaws. Most of those who did so were, unlike me, even polite. Patience is a virtue which most of the Notre Dame teaching faculty has had an abundance of oppor­tunities to cultivate. 
But persistent employment of the UPS arrangement without explanation and without improvement cannot be written off as a flaw. As far as I am concerned, it is immoral. Students (and ex-students) pay my salary. They have a right to know not only what courses I offer, but also whether or not they enjoy a fair shot at being admitted to those courses. They have a right to know what standards are used to de­termine course admissions, and they have a right to know the reasons for those standards. As a teacher, I have a right to know some of this stuff, too. 
One presumes that it would not destroy the Registrar to explain his procedures to all of us who must endure thein; one supposes that there must be rational justifications for such innova­tions. If the reasons cannot be ex­plained, there are not reasons. Whim­sey is a rotten way to run an institution. 
Again, I cannot really apologize to any students except those incon­venienced by my own sense of the pedagogical integrity of my own courses. To those dumped from my spring courses, I apologize. I'm sorry. It's a bum trip. It's unfair. To me, it's immoral enough to confess at my next confession, even if I can't figure out what the hell to do about it. Yet my friends of the teaching faculty are a decent lot. I suspect that my apology speaks for a lot of us. If they had the slightest idea why the Registrar imple­mented his UPS policy, I think I'd not be the only one apologizing for the in­convenience it causes. 
One more observation deserves reiteration. The new preregistration system, whatever it is, is not the fault of departmental secretaries or the ad­ministration clerks who are stuck with the job of making it work. The new sys­tem has already increased their workload; they don't need additional hassles. They don't earn enough pay to explain away the idiocies they are asked to rationalize. It isn't their fault. Students zapped from my courses may complain to me, who can't figure out what's going on, or to the Registrar, who doubtlessly knows why this crazy system makes sense. 
Bob Kerby is an associate professor of history who hates titles. 


P.O.BoxQ 
Students must respond to Nicaraguan problem 
Dear Editor: 
I agree with the points Robert J. Ar­guello made in the Nov. 11 issue. But to take his point a step further, over the past year or so, readers of The Ob­server have been bombarded with in­vectives concerning South Africa. Anti­apartheid zealots have nearly tripped over their exclamation points denounc­ing South Africa and its harried regime. The implication seems to be that those not in favor of immediate divestment are: 1) "insensitive," 2) closet racists, or 3) both. 
I raise this because approximately ten days ago The Observer reported that Sergio Ramirez, vice-president of Nicaragua, is coming to Notre Dame. But why no cry of outrage from the anti-apartheid crowd? Arguello pointed out several reasons why there should be outrage; here are a few more. First, a defector from the Nicaraguan Inte­rior Ministry relates that Minister Tomas Borge maintains two offices: one filled with crucifixes, statues of Christ, Bibles, etc. where he entertains religious visitors, and a second working office decorated with pictures of Marx and Lenin. His American religious visitors? "An army of useful fools," laughs Borge. Some morality, that. 
Second, the Sandinistas are systema­tically murdering the Miskito Indians. Why? For some reason this group failed to march in unison with the other San­dinista storm troopers. 
Anti-apartheid advocates speak with such moral fervor on the South African question. But their silence--and silence of the Left in general on this campus--on the immorality of Nicaragua, and of communism in general, is deafening. Their failure to exhibit moral outrage against the most tyrannical system of government in existence today raises serious doubts about the logic--and validity--of their whole argument. Those trapped behind communism's iron bars, for whom few voices are raised in the West, are the real victims. 
Kevin Smant Graduate Student 
lA/ELL, IAJE PROMI!iWtuA~/NGlDN THAT TH/5 TIM/3 tfi&'/JAPPOINTA 8WE-I<J880V C/JMM/55/0N 70 
TH/3/R MON&Yt~'71 1/.J .T 

Students should care for their nightclub 
Dear Editor: 
Yeah, Theodore's is fun. Yeah, it is really nice. Yeah, there is finally some­thing to do at Notre Dame. Yeah, every­thing is great! Right? Wrong! You see, some people don't like the chairs, so they break them. Others think that the tables are for dancing on. Still others think that grand pianos make good lounge chairs or dancing platforms. One person needed to play so badly that he even broke open the key cover to do so. Some people don't like the color scheme, so they kick holes in the walls. Some people think it is fun to trash brand new bathrooms. You know, fun stuff like kicking in stall doors and rip­ping soap dispensers off the walls. Oh boy, what big fun! Some people obvi­ously shouldn't drink, because when they do they leave their last meal all over the bathroom floors. 
But wait, there is good news. We realize that the vast majority of you 
Garry Trudeau 

come to have fun and not to cause any problems. Having fun is what Theodore's is all about. A lot of student time and money have been invested to make the club a fun place. That is why it is so stupid for students to destroy it. It is a real shame that the club has to be closed this Wednesday and Thursday for repairs. We're really sorry that the actions of a few penalize the majority. However, everyone must realize that if the damage continues, Theodore's will be closed, and the club space will be turned back into a boring lounge which closes early. We don't want this to hap­pen, and will do everything we can to prevent it. However, we cannot prevent it ourselves. We need your help. When you're at the club, don't let others trash the place. 
We hope this will never happen again­-but that is up to you. We'll see you Friday! 
Vince Willis Laurie Bink Tom Utter Tara O'Leary Martine Beamon Student Manager's of Theodore's 


Quote of the day 
"Two things only a man cannot hide:that he is drunk and that he is in love." 
Antiphanes 
(388-JJJB.C.) 


----------------------------------------------------------~~----------------·--------~·--------------~----~~,_----~-­\TielVJ!_()__i_ll_t______________________________________________________________Tu_e_sd_a_y_,_N_ov_e_m_b_er_I_s_,1_9_ss_-~p-a~ge_s__ 

P.O.BoxQ 
Progressive opinion is to deviate from norms 
Dear Editor: 

A recent column by Gertie Wimmer had the professed purpose of submit­ting to us pertinent considerations con­cerning the admission of women into ecclesiastical orders and offices. These 
considerations were intended to help us formulate a more enlightened opinion and to persuade us to favor this admis­sion as she herself does. But, in fact, the column did nothing of the sort. 
f 
Whatever the reasons for the possi­bility of impossibility, merits or demerits, of a Catholic woman pries­thood are, Wimmer gave us not the faintest help in their discovery. Rather, 
she did something much easier, con­tenting herself with recording the choleric complaints of some malcon­tent, Chicago-based nun, in hopes of our deferring to this, no doubt, accredited expert. This bit of biography of Sister Margaret Traxler is really all we were given. 
The seductive power of this sort of column is that it creates the illusion that we are looking soberly at cold, in­contestable facts, at a spunky female individualist who is pioneering social changes because she understands more than her soft-headed contemporaries. 
In an age of impotence it is to be ex­pected that many pride themselves on being better and wiser that their neigh­bors, not to mention their ancestors. It is to be expected that many take refuge in the monotonous, ready-made cliches of "sexism" "male domination" and "patriarchy' of the Church". Name­calling passes for argument. Presump­tions about the status of women on par with "all change is progress," "how far we have already come," "how much growing up we have left to do,"and the like, sbustitute for self-evident truths. None of this is suprising. What is amazing is the further notion that everyone else must also keep up to date with the latest changes, the most recent version of progressive opinion, and that it is somehow one's duty to alter with the prevailing climate. To place a high premium on anything save what the Traxlers deem good, is at best consid­ered quaint, and more likely, vile. 
A few pages back in the annals of Americn history, a demand was ex­pressed for the quickening of a politi­cally quiescent female population. Like the people behind that demand (to keep up with current trends), most people today probably feel attracted to a com­munity in which voting privileges ex­tend to both sexes in the same way. I share these feelings. But, at the same time, I can readily understand that the women and men of that earlier time did not share our present feelings, that they had reasons, not mere subter­fuges, for their own point of view. Per­haps even today it is still conceivable and admissible that there are views ­maybe even reasoned ones -which op­pose and will not conform to a single, Traxler-Iike vision of the emerging community. 
Robert Anderson Graduate Student 

Lecture by Nicaraguan is to promote discourse 
Dear Editor: 

The Graduate Association for Latin America would like to thank both Roberto Arguello and Carey Ewing for their recent letters to The Observer, addressing the up-coming visit and public lecture of Dr. Sergio Ramirez­Mercado, the vice-president of Nicaragua, on Nov. 21. 
The questions raised by Arguello and Ewing are important and Ramirez's visit offers an opportunity to raise these and hopefully many more questions. We are in full agreement with Ewing who wrote that the purpose of Notre Dame "is to foster and promote intel­lectual thought and discourse," and it is precisely for this reason that we have invited Ramirez. Without a speaker to provide some thoughts, one can't have discourse. 
Fr. Hesburgh has been adamant and consistent in pursuing this vision of a university where highly charged is­sues, like that of Church and State in Nicaragua, can be discussed without rancor and hatred. In this sense let us repeat that the lecture is open to the public and all are invited to attend, as was reported in The Observer on Nov. 
1. Currently, we have scheduled a full hour of comments and questions to be posed to Ramirez. 
At this point, the event is co­sponsored by the following campus and off-campus groups: the Overseas De­velopment Network, the Council for In­ternational Lay Apostalate, the Inter­national Student Organization which, incidentally, has recently invited a con­tra leader to campus (that's for those who worry about "one-sidedness"), the Graduate Student Union, the Student Organization for Latin America, the Center for Social Concerns, the Wo­men's International League for Peace and Freedom, the Pledge of Resis­tance, the Justice and Peace Center as well as individuals and other groups who wish to remain anonymous. Still others are presently considering co­sponsorship. 
Let me close with a personal note: Arguello claims in his letter that I did not welcome him to attend 'Ramirez's lecture. Arguello's statement is false. The truth is rather that he called me on Oct. 29, asking if he could be invited to the lecture as a panel member. I replied that I would discuss his request with GALA's members, since I am not authorized to make decisions concern­ing GALA on my own. Arguello promised to call me back the next day, Oct. 30. Unfortunately, he did not call back to hear GALA's decision. Instead he wrote, on Oct. 30, the letter which The Observer printed and to which we herewith respond. 
Jurgen Brauer GALA Spokesperson 


Artistic tradition is missing at Theodore's 

Dear Editor: 
How could it happen? I am sitting here in my room with my roommates on a Thursday evening, drinking a few beers and discussing whatever comes to our minds--first politics, then reli­gion, and of course our conversation next turns to life under the dome. "So Jack, what do you think about Theodore's? Not a bad place, huh?" "Yea, it is a great non-alcoholic altern­ative." 
Suddenly we realize the tragedy and terrible irony of the renovation of the Chataqua Ballroom into Theodore's. Brand new carpet, new stage, great music, and newly painted walls. Isn't that blue a great color? But look closer, the walls are beige. Suddenly you realize the bland beige color has forever removed the faces of the Beatles, Jimi Hendrix, Jim Morison, and Janis Joplin. 
Why have the paintings of Chataqua been destroyed in place of plain walls of mediocre color? Theodore's is a great idea, but why must its creation be at the expense of another's artistic creation? No attempt was made to preserve or record the quality portraits of Janis Joplin, Jimi Hendrix, Jim Mor­rison, or the Beatles. Why? These fig­ures played crucial roles in the devel­opment of the music that we now hear coming from Theodore's every weekend. 
We find it tragic that artistic con­cerns have so little value on this campus. 
Jack Blakey John~. Bauer Morrissey Hall 



Students should notice injustices in world 
Injustice. 

What comes to mind when that word is mentioned? Perhaps a party being broken-up by bullying policemen? A deficient social life? A roommate's 
Meg McGinity 

guest column 
alarm clock pulling you from REM sleep at 7 a.m. when you don't have a class until noon? Not being able to get basketball tickets? 
Consider the feelings and thoughts that flash through your mind when the above situations occur. Do you realize that people outside the NDSMC com­munity suffer injustices everyday? These invoke the same angry feelings multiplied exponentially. 

Viewpoint Department 

We, as students, beg to be viewed as adults. We want responsibilities. We want to be able to choose our own lifes­tyles according to our own beliefs. When we are robbed of this freedom, we feel a grave injustice has occurred. 
Now, let's enlarge that perspective. Look at the injustices that occur not only across the campus, but across the country, and across the world. 
The Constitution ensures each citizen "life, liberty and the pursuit of happi­ness." These privileges are given, not on the basis of wealth, status or race, but because one is born. These rights are inalienable. No one can take them away, or should be able to take them away. 
Open up any widely-circulated news­paper, and you'll find it is impossible not to encounter numerous articles con-
Write us! 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is avallabld to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
cerned with injustice. Reflect back to how you felt when you learned your friend (or yourself) received a citation for being at a party, or at a bar. By using your own experiences, it is easier to relate to magnitude of those viola­tions of human rights that are occuring in Chile, South Mrica and even the United States. It is impossible to find a solution until the problem is under­stood. Understanding begins with be­coming aware. 
There is life outside the dome. Intro­duce yourself to it, and become in­volved. 
Meg McGinity is a junior English major and the coordinator of the Communica­tions Group in Justice Education at Saint Mary's College. 

General Board 
Editor·in·Chief.......... . ...... Joe Murphy Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Sports Editor. . . . . . . . . . ..... Dennis Corngan Accent Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Tripp Baltz News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
Founded November 3,1966 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Advertismg Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon 




Accent 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 9 
I COKE vs. PEPSI 


Who will win the cola crown? 
JOE BUCOLO features writer 

When about to buy a soft drink, very few of us experience Michael 
J. Fox and his "xeroxed" Pepsi or a bunch of people holding candles singing "''d Like to Buy the World a Coke." However, we all know that the feud between Coke and Pepsi is more serious than that of the fight between the Ewings and Barnes of "Dallas." 
The soft drink companies, es­pecially Coke and Pepsi. are con­stantly locked into a deadly battle for supremacy and we, the public, are the victims. Cola is no longer a drink; it's a way of life ... 
Over a hundred years ago, in his backyard in Atlanta, a sur­geon and analytical chemist named John Pemberton created the first Coke. Back then, Coca Cola was just a bubbly, fizzy, yummy treat something new and exciting. Pemberton had no idea that his "fluke" would be­come an American way of life. 
Then the fighting began. 
Pepsi, another cola company, 
wasn't going to let Coca Cola 
reign over the cola market. The 
"fizz" between the companies 
rang throughout the country. 
To stay in competition, the companies began to produce more products. Royal Crown Cola (RC), a much smaller com­pany, developed the first caffeine-free and diet colas. The two giants immediately followed. Coke released Tab and Pepsi started Pepsi Free. Despite all at­tempts, Pepsi still couldn't beat "The Real Thing." Even 7Up, a totally new drink with neither caf­feine nor sugar, could not defeat Coke. 
Pepsi then decided it needed a new ad campaign. It was then that the company started its famed "Pepsi Challenge" tests. Surprisingly, more people did choose Pepsi when they took the test; however, Coke was still sell­ing better. How could this be? The answer was shocking, yet simple. Pepsi oversold Coke in the stores, but more restaurants and public places chose Coke for their soda fountains. People were buying Pepsi, but restau­rants weren't. 
Pepsi knew it had to beat Coke at its own game. Then, in 1974, Pepsi got a great idea. Under President Nixon, Pepsi arranged a deal with the Soviet Union. It was a very simple trade. Pepsi would supply Russia with the syrup and machines to produce Pepsi in return for the rights to sell Russian vodka and wine here in America. The deal was ap­proved and proved to be greatly beneficial to both sides involved. Coke, realizing the threat of Pepsi, immediately arranged to have Coke sold at the 1980 Mos­cow Olympics. Again, CoKe was ahead. 
In 1977, Coca Cola decided to 
expand. They thought that since 
their soft drinks were doing so 
well, they had mastered the art 
of selling beverages. It was at 
that time that they purchased the 
Taylor Wine Company. Sales in­
creased immediately. With one 
purchase under its belt, the Coke 
company turned to the entertain­
ment world. In 1982, Coke 
bought Columbia pictures, the last major independent film producer, for $695 million. That too, was a great success, espe­cially since -the purchase in­cluded Tri-Star pictures. Colum­bia is responsible for such favorites as "Ghostbusters" and "Days of Our Lives." While Co­lumbia continued to flourish un­
der Coke, Taylor wines did not. Coke sold the wine company in 
198.3 after realizing that cola and wine mix about as well as oil and water. 
All this time 7Up had been in 
third place in the soft drink war. 
The conpany's officials finally 
had a solution. Following the old 
phrase "If you can't beat them, join them," 7Up introduced its own caffeine-free cola in 1984 called Like. For a while the cola did well, but sales quickly tapered off. 
The introduction of Like cola 
only made the war more fierce. 
Coke introduced three new 
drinks: Diet Coke, Caffeine-free 
Coke, and Diet Caffeine-free 
Coke. Sprite, Coke's 7Up com­
petitor, was also improved. Then 
Pepsi introduced sugar and 
caffeine-free Pepsi Free. The 
result of all these new products 
was immediately seen. Diet Coke 
knocked 7Up from its traditional 
third place. Even Sprite began to 
gain on 7Up. Pepsi's sales im­
proved, but not enough to knock 
Coke from its number one spot. 
In late 1986, Coke decided to expand again. They bought Em­bassy Communications and Tan­dem Productions in August for $485 million. These companies produce shows like "Silver Spoons" and "Who's The Boss?" 
This expansion increased Coke's empire incredibly. 
Meanwhile, Pepsi realized that Coke was generally popular among the Baby Boomers. Now that the Boomers were getting older, there was a whole gener­ation of younger people to at­tract. Pepsi immediately started its "The Choice of a New Gener­ation" ads. The ads featured Lionel Richie, MichaeiJ. Fox, Don Johnson, and Michael Jackson. The incident in which Jackson's hair caught fire alone increased Pepsi's publicity. Coke, on the other hand, began its "Catch the Wave" campaign with famed Max Headroom. These commercials are extremely popular, too. 
Pepsi's increasing sales forced Coke to re-evaluate its I 00 year old product. Pepsi was sweeter than Coke. To change that Coke introduced a new sweeter for­mula. In a matter of days, America became incredibly angry. Clubs and organizations developed to bring back the old Coke. Coca Cola had made a mistake ... or had it? This inci­dent attracted more publicity than ever. Probably one of the greatest publicity stunts in his­tory, this action forced Coke to bring back their old formula un­der the new name Coca Cola Classic. 
This fiasco helped Pepsi, too. 
Pepsi's new commercials asked 
the immortal question, "Is Coke 
still 'The Real Thing?' " The ads 
had all of America thinking. 
When the dust had finally 
settled, Coke made more moves. 
It bought up Merv Griffin En­terprises, the producer of"Wheel of Fortune." Then Cherry Coke was released under the ad 

· "Outrageous," the same word that Richie (Pepsi's advertiser) had used to describe an award show he hosted. 
What had all this done for Coke? In May of 1985, Coke had 29 percent of the market while Pepsi had 2.3 percent. After the "war" of 1986, Coke had .39 per­cent to Pepsi's 29 percent. Coke's stock jumped 70 percent, too. 
Then came the clothes. Coca Cola introduced a full line of clothing from sweaters to watches. The clothes began to sell very well after a rocky start. Recently, Coke also released Diet Cherry Coke, a welcome addition to the Coke dynasty. Not to be outdone, Pepsi recently released its line ofclothes for the new gen­eration. 
Where does Notre Dame fit in? Freshman Jodi Hurst says she likes Pepsi better "because it doesn't seem as syrupy; it's lighter." 
Romano DiBenedetto agrees: "I like Pepsi, because it quenches my thirst more." 
Kathy Polacheck prefers Coke because she likes "the different flavors especially Cherry." 
Soft drinks have come a long way. Once simply drinks, they have instituted a way of life. Pepsi and Coke will probably bat­tle for many years to come. The winner won't necessarily have a better drink, but will have a bet­ter name. What's next in the war? More flavors? New clothes? Ap­pliances? Television shows? Food? Only time will tell ... 





Accent 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 10 

Key to DISCOVERy: 

Career & Placement Center -not just for jobs 
DON CHISHOLM as educational than 
features writer therapeutic." 
In individual counseling, cer­
When most people think of the tain self-assessment techniques 
Career and Placement Center, may be recommended. Most 
they think of job placement. notable among these is the self­
Indeed, over 10,000 interviews directed, computer-assisted 
between seniors and representa­career guidance program called 
tives of the real world took place DISCOVER. 
last year. 

But, according to director Kitty This computer software poses Arnold, an overlooked service of 
questions about interests, the Career and Placement Center 
values, skills, and abilities. The helping undergraduate students 
computer then matches the stu­make career choices. "We are 
dent response pattern with pos­continually striving to overcome 
sible occupations. The DIS­the preconceived notion that this 
COVER program is available at is a place just for seniors," says 
the Career and Placement Center Arnold. 
and the University Counseling 
Center. 
In order to help students make career choices, the Center pro­The library at the Career and vides a method of self­Placement Center is also an ex­assessment of aptitudes and cellent source of information. In values and it provides specific in­the past three years, the number formation about careers. of books in the library has tripled 
through corporate donations. 
Individual counseling is one The library not only includes goals. Although internships are as non-profit organizations, gov­Arnold states that, "With all the means of accomplishing these books and video tapes on the na­scarce, even to be interviewed for ernment and out about
agencies, confusion there goals. Last year, around I, 250 ture of occupations but also on one is a good experience. In raw politicians offices. 
careers, it is difficult to under­students took advantage of the how to write resumes and how numbers, most internships are 
stand why more students don't service. Arnold notes that, " We to interview. in the engineering and account­There are many presentations 
take full advantage of our assis­are not here for therapy. It's a Internships are an option avail­ing fields. But in the spring, the 
and workshops ranging from tance. We're delighted to helpnormal developmental issue for able to students making career Career and Placement Center choosing a career tojob research but they (Notre Dame students) 
someone to be confused about choices. These are summer pro­trains students how to make their skills and techniques held by the have to take the initiative to ask a career. We view ourselves more fessional jobs related to career own internships in such places Career and Placement Center. for it." 
• 




Forgotten America: 
PATTI MORRISON non, Kentucky. These volunteers features writer did some basic home repair on the often dilapidated homes of 
Three groups lend a hand 
Working with the poor may not the residents, but the main focus be appealing to everyone, but for was on visiting the people. those who find volunteer work "It was quite an experience," intriguing and rewarding, the Ap­said Majorie Zilowski of the Lewis palachia Mountains is an inter­program. "These people have no esting place to go. The Applal­central heating or indoor plumb­chian people, plagued with high ing." levels of poverty and unemploy­Visiting the people is the best ment, lead a lifestyle very differ­way to come to know their lifes­ent than ours. tyles and all the volunteers did a 
Several Notre Dame and Saint lot of that. The Saint Mary's Mary's students had the unique group, formed out of the Chris­opportunity to work with the Ap­tian Compassion and Global palachian people over October Concerns class, spent an entire break. CILA, Lewis Hall and Saint week simply listening to the Mary's all sponsored trips into people. Stationed in Nora, Vir­
different parts of this large ginia, the small group of seven mountain chain. All three groups volunteers learned a great deal experienced a people and a way about the people. of life different from their own. "The people are rugged in­
CILA -Christian International dividualists whose whole sense Lay Apostalate, sent 22 students of community doesn't come 
to Vanceberg, Kentucky, just naturally," said Rebecca Hetland over the Indiana border. The a Saint Mary's senior. "It is in­group worked with the Glen­spiring to see people trying to marry Missionaries on various help themselves." projects. One such project was The CILA group emphasized 
converting an old run-down visiting as well. One whole day house into a shelter for abused was spent with emotionally dis­wives and children. turbed and retarded members of For example, some groups with us their two-room home, art "Working in Appalachia for a 
"Because of the growing need the community. Individual saw Appalachians who were bit­work and music," said Willis Gal­week gave me a taste of what a 
for a shelter, helping with the families that the Glenmarry mis­ter toward the corporations be­lagher. "They had many reasons career in the Peace Corps might conversion was an important sionaries work with were also cause of low wages and poor not to be, but they were happy." be like," said Margaret Monahan, part of the trip," said Chris visited. working conditions. Others were a Saint Mary's senior. Sanders coordinator of the CILA Spending time with the people bitter because of their severe Experiencing the people and While not everybody is cut out 
program. allowed the volunteers the op­poverty. working with them was the main for volunteer work, going to Ap­
Lewis Hall sent seven of the 15 portunity to gain a better under­emphasis of each of the pro­palachia could still be a unique, students in their group to standing of the simple lifestyle. Other students got a chance to grams, and each program was eye-opening experience. The Lancaster, Kentucky, where they Volunteers saw both sides of the see the nipside. The CILA group successful in doing so. For those three groups of volunteers gave also rebuilt a house for abused coin -people who were bitter visited Noah, Charlie and Hazel, students considering a career in of themselves in Appalachia, yet spouses. The eight other group about their destitution and those Appalachians happy with their volunteer work the Appalachia they returned to South Bend with members divided themselves who were content and some­lifestyle. "Although they didn't programs were a perfect "ice­much more than they had when between Martin and Mount Ver-times even happy. have much, they proudly shared breaker." they left. 


-· ------------------------------~ The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 11 

Sports Briefs 
The O.C. Hoobers forced a final game in the Interhall soccer playoffs by beating Flanner, 2-0, yesterday. The championship game will be held today at 4 p.m. at Stepan North. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team still has one opening left in the Christmas ski trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone in­terested should call Joe (1190) or Jeff (3660). -The Observer 
The ND fencing team is looking for a freshman inter­ested in electronics and willing to repair fencing equipt­ment. Contact Prof. DeCicco at Room 309 of the Admin­istration Building. -The Observer 
The Annual SMC Turkey Trot will be held Thursday, Nov. 20 at 3:30p.m. There will be individual runs of one and one-half, three, and five miles and new ND-SMC coed runs of three and five miles. Deadline is noon tomorrow, and entry forms may be picked up at Angela. There is a $1 entry fee. Call 284-5549 for more information. -The Ob­server 
The NVA Turkey Shoot still has openings for tomorrow and Wednesday night. Call NVA at 239-6100 for more in­formation. -The Observer 
The Chicago Bears, defending Super Bowl champions, have received permission from the National Football League to sell tickets to two postseason games at Soldier Field in the event they should qualify for the home-field advantage. -Associated Press 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 

Boston's Kent Linseman finds the going rough Delorme. The Bruins also had a rough time last as he is roughed up by Quebec's Gilbert night, losing to Montreal in overtime, 3-2. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Coilge Center, accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Ail classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS COKER, 233-7009. 
MICROCOMPUTER FAIR MICROCOMPUTER FAIR MICROCOMPUTER FAIR Thursday, Nov. 20. 1986 9amto4pm Computing Center Lobby 
TO THE GIRL WHO FOUND A BOU· QUET OF WHITE ROSES WITH RED TIPS ON THE PARKING LOT OF SAINT MARY'S MADELEVA ·· HELD TO· GETHER WITH A UTILE IRON DOG . KEEP THE ROSES1 BUT I DO NEED THE PUPPY BACK. GREAT (and this cannot be emphas•zed enough) SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 289 • 7219. Reward (more roses?) 
WORDPROCESSING 277·8131 
Professional word processing services of term papers. resumes. mailings. etc. Center Services Company, conveniently located in downtown South Bend, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. • 5 p.m., 282· 8550. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST about two weeks ago, my LL Bean, blue and black plaid jacket Call Margaret, X4087. 
LOST an envelope of pictures in the North Dining Hall about a week ago. They have great sentimental value. Call Mar· garet. X4087. 
LOST: GOLD SEIKO lADIES WATCH WED. MORNING, NOV.12 BETWEEN B2 AND HAGGAR. PLEASE, IF FOUND, CONTACT KERRY HAVERKAMP 277· 81591!11 WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE IT. 
LOST: Light grey heavy wool winter coat. Lost at Theodore's on last Set. night be· tween 2·3 AM--n·s getting cold and I really need it beck. If you picl<ed ~ up accidentally, calf Gary at x1153 
LOST: BLUE,SHOE·SHAPED PENCIL CASE AT HAYES HEALY WITH "I GOT A KICK OUT OF LAS VEGAS" ON IT. LIFE IS NOT THE SAME WITHOUT IT! RING VALERIE AT 283·1366 
LOST:ADD·A·BEAD NECKLACE. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN WALSH AND SO. DINING HALL OR IN DINING HALLPLEASE CALL MAUREEN M. AT 2612. THANKS. 
If you picked up a Bio. book in F line at north dining hall Thur. and it's not yours, it's MINE!' Please return it to 1110 Flan· ner or call Frank xl581. I can't afford an· other book and I need to study for the test Tuesday. Thanx. 
LOST!! MY KEYS. Five keys on a brass 
ND keychain. One of the keys is blue. 
Please call Stephanie at 277-8241. 
Thanks' 

HEAR YE. HEAR YE. If you lost an H.P. calculator before break, call 1412 to iden­tily a.s.a.p. 
lost: Fur hat. russian style on Thursday Nov 13 in Library Auditorium or Csc build· 1ng between 7 and 9 pm.l got it from Russia and wilt never go back again. Call 277-2282. 
Help! I lost my keys on Nov. 14,1986 somewhere on campus between the north dining hall and the architecture bldg. I really need my keys to get into my apartment There are approximately 7 keys on this typical round. brown, wooden key chain. You know. the one with the ND insignia on it If found, please call £272-8839. I'd really appre· ciate it. 
LOST : Season basketball tickets Friday night at Theodore's. Section 114, Row 8, Seat 23. Name is signed on booklet If you have them, call £4645 for reward. 
LOST • purple and white striped PURSE with 35 mm CAMERA. Please contact Rose at 272-3970. 
FOR RENT 
Available for I!IMI7. Large 4 bdrm. home. Will accommodate 8. Completely fur· nished wrth washer and dryer. Call 234· 
9364. 

UNIVERSITY PARK APTS UNIVERSITY PARK APTS Need 1 or 2 roommates for spring. NO LEASE OBLIGATION Com­pletely furnished except for your room! CALL AL or KEVIN at 277-8938. 
Available for VtAI7&!VtAI7 4BR,Furnished,Safe,Great Location, Rent Negotiable, You pay utilities, Will acommodate 5. Call Geoff 288· 7276 
WANTED 

WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY PERSONNEL $5.00 AN HOUR GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO WEEKS! FLEXIBLE NIGHT-TIME HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277·2151 
In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn State GA or Student ticket!!! Call Theresa X4041 !!! Will pay big! 
Waitresses, Waiters needed at Knol­
lwood Country Club. No experience nec­
essary. Knollwood Country Club, 16833 
Baywood Dr.. Granger. ln.. 277-1541. 
············ ········ ········· .................. ········· ........ 
MIAMI'S WHERE I'D RATHER BE! 
Miami. Ohio, that is. Yeaaaah. That's the 
ticket! And you can be my ticket to getting 
there on Fri., Nov. 21. If you need a rider to Miami. call 3674 and ask for the liar. uh, the Pope! Yeaaah, that's it . 
Ride andt>r riders NEEDED..R;;;;h..N::;;_ Leave adter 12 p.m. Mon. 24 Call Dave £1683 
Earn $480 weekly, $60 per hundred en· velopes stuffed. Guaranteed. Homeworkers needed for company proj­ect stuffing envelopes and assembling materials. Send stamped self-addressed envelope to JBK Mailcompany, P.O. Box 25·66. Castaic, CA g1310. 
NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE NOV21 CALL PAM OR KRIS 284-5482 
HELP!I NEED A RIDE TO YOUNGSTOWN,OH (OR VICINITY)FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES.IF YOU CAN HELP ME,PLEASE CALL CHRIS-284·5516 
Need ride to Cleveland, Ohio for Thanks· giving. Call Debbie £2960. 
Need ride to Cincy 111:!1 or 111:!2 Call Amy 3851 
Need rders for rd-trip to Cleve over T­break. 255·1508 
RIDE NEEDED to St. Louis for Thanks­giving break. Will share usual. PLEASE call Matt at x2314 or x2261. Thanks! 
NEED ride for 2 to COLUMBUS for Turkey day. Can leave Tue after 4. C all 2914 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO SPFLD, ILL OVER THANKS. IF TAKING 1-55 TO ST. LOUIS THAT WOULD WORK. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL LE ANN 284·5494. 
WANTED: 2 RIDES TO EXIT 4 OHIO TRNPK FOR T-DAY BREAK. CALL TERA 284-4087 
EARN MONEY ON ALL THE MAGAZINES SOLD ON CAMPUS. NEED PEOPLE TO POST INFORMA· TION. GOOD PROFIT. WRITE: BPC, 8218 HARDY, OVERLAND PARK, KS 86204. 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government ? Get the facts today! Call 1·312·742-1142 Ext 7316 
13 in. RCA color television, less than 1 yr. old. Call Darren X1843. 
TICKETS 
I NEED 4 LSU TIX CALL JIM AT 277­4569 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM, PROCTER & GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 ­INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAMS: USA & CHILE. CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE). 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS for $$$. Present this ad and receive an additional 10% OFF of any used book in store! LARGE selection of CliMAonarch Notes. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St.. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 Days a week, 10-530 
Lisa. Good luckl Actually, Murph 
Just in from The Land of 10,000 Lakes: MINNESOTA CLUB T·SHIRTS only $7.50 To order. call Tom "Dodger" Tracey, 
£1783 
Please attend Fr. Richard McCormick's talk-discussion on "The Curran and Hun­thausen Affaires: The Learning Process of the Church" on Wednesday, Novem· ber 17 at 7:00 p.m. in room 341 O'Shaughnessy. 
Buying & selling men's and women's quality clothing. Consignment Showcase, 2214 Mishawaka Ave., 237-4877. 
My mom bought a VAN HALEN al­
bum?!?! 
Need ride East!II 
I need a ride to 
Pittsburgh over Thanksgiving break. If 
you are going east on the turnpike and 
can offer me a ride, call Mary at 3726. 
Share usual expenses. 
Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB· MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Monday ·Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm·2am; Saturday 5pm-1 am; Sunday 4pm·10pm 
·············· ....... NEED RIDE FOR THANKSGIVING IF 
DRIVING TO EITHER NEW YORK CITY 
AREA OR DELAWARE CALL SCOTI AT 
1599 
JUNIORS"88" JUNIORS"88 IT'S THIRD 
THURSDAY BOWLING AT BEACON 
BOWL!!! THIS THURSDAY, NOV. 20, 
9:30 BOWL AT BEACON!!! JUNIORS"88"JUNIORS"88 
KE'NE"Li·y··w·oMAN.. YOU'·Re··;.r··rHE 
RIPE AGE OF 19, "MY HOW YOU'VE GROWN!" WHO'S THE GUY IN THE RED ... HE'S LOOKING FOR A FALLEN ANGEL SEEN ANY GOOD MALLOYS LATELY?...THE WINDOW'S WERE TOO STEAMED UP, I COULDN'T TELL...WATCHWHATYOU WEAR YOU MIGHT STICK OUT! ... BE CAREFUL AT THE PUB YOU MIGHT RUN INTO SOME OLD FAMILIAR? ... PAPER BAGS AND CUPS,NOT USI KATY WE LOVE, HAVE A GREAT B·DAY!CMCTSMSKB 
LA SOIREE CREPE VIENT!!!II TOUS CEUX QUI VEULENT PARTICIPER ET NOUS AIDER SONT PRIES DE CON· TACTER EILEEN A 288·1941. 
Need to get to New Jersey for Thanks· giving? Selling plane ticket from South Bend to Newark for face value. Call Terry at 1801 
Attention Observer Produdlon De­
partment 
Last meeting of the semester . to­
morrow, at 7:00. Please attend. 
Goldberg to Missile Control... Calling Mis­sile Control... Sorry about your unclimati­cal conclussion to such a great season. You'll get them next year. Just think ... now you can spend more time trying to out drink me, Bud ... 
WISCONSIN CLUB BUS SIGN-UPS Tues...Wedn. 6-6:30 Thanksgvng bus bottom of LaFortune 

Molly, Thanks for an interesting weekend. Here's to a lot more -even· though you did kill my Hower George 
i:~;;~·-i;;;;~g·;;·~~-·i.-;;;;;.··;~~'h-~ih~~--i~ 
than we should you understand me w~h a glance and me with you a friendship that will never die Rob 
Patty Blond hair ... dazzling eyes and you had to be set up for a dance just tell me when your next one is p.s. HI! Rob 
To the most incredible and UNFORGET· TABLE girls I know Cathy, Mary, Mary, Carrie, Marcie Hope I'm forgiven Rob 
TWO PEOPLE NEED RIDE TO ANYWHERE ALONG INTERSTATE 90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. 
HOLA. AMIGAS Y AMIGOSII!!II Come join us for lunch ala Mexico! at the Center for Social Concerns Thursday, Nov.20 11:30-1:30 To benefij La Casa de Amistad 
THANKS FOR THE MEMORIES ... OF PITISBURGH IN THE SUN, A MOM WHO'S NUMBER ONE SISTERS, DIRTY MOVIES, YOUR CHILDHOOD ROLLED IN ONE I THANK YOU SO MUCH. It can't be kicking a dead horse, can it? 
LISA HOLLENBECK You're finished. Get psyched!! You'll be an "actuarial" yet. Love ya, Maria 
Guess who's birthday is tomorrow! Hints: She's one of Fartey's Finest. her brother plays for CU (but he apparently isn't on drugs), she'd kill for popcorn, her favorite ad on t.v. has the slogan, "Army. Navy . AIR FORCE, Marines: It's a great place to start!", and she will be 20 years old!! 
Hey, £1 Fallen Angel! Two little personals reminded us that it was your b-day. Well, here comes the revenge. That's right folks. Today is Katy "I can stuff a mean bra" Kennelly's 19th. Stop her and wish her a Happy B·day. You may want to ask her where she lost that McD's on the soccer bus or even if that is her real build. Hope it's a happy one Katy! Love, your roommate and that Jr whom you can only hope to be like. 
Watch out Men of ND, today's Kaly (I want roses for my b-day) Kennelly's 19th b-day! This aggressive woman of the 80's (alias "Fallen Angel") is very very wicked. She winds up in others' beds but don't touch her or she will -on you! So clear the stadium, wish her a HAPPY B-day, and only walk with her on soft. Love, the persuasion problems. 
KRIS-MAYBE YOU SHOULD CON· SIDER SENDING ROSES TO YOUR FRENCH TEACHER 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TEE TEE WOMAN!!! WE LOVE YOUII JT1,JT2,WOMAN,MS. FERRET,JULLY-BULLY,SHE-FEELLY, & WINSTON. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KIMBO SARTORI!!! ALL YOU LOVELY BOYS OLIT THERE GIVE WRECKLESS A CALL AT SMC 5481 AND WISH HER A LOVELY BIRTHDAY. OKI 

~----------~ 
-r-~--­
, 
I The Observer Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 12 
I 
~ 

Special to the Observer 
Irish tailback Mark Green has been moved to flanker in preparation for this weekend's game against LSU. 
Green, who has been split­ting time with Anthony Johnson at the tailback posi-

Irish Hockey downs St. John's,6-2, falls to Wisconsin-Stevens Point 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's hockey team answered a call for more of­fense with an impressive 6-2 win over St. John's (Minn.) in the first round of the Pointer Classic last weekend. But in the final-round 5-2 loss to Wisconsin-Stevens Point, it was the same story that has plagued the Irish so far during the young season -plenty of shots with few goals. 
"For the most part, we were pleased with the way we im­proved," said Head Coach Lefty Smith. "We moved the puck a lot better, and we skated with a little more ease. We weren't as uptight, and we were skating more naturally." 
Left wing John Nickodemus, the lone senior on the team, wasted no time getting the Irish started against St. John's on 
Friday,  scoring  less  than  a  
minute  and  a  half  into  the  
game.  

St. John's stayed close, trail­ing 2-1 after two periods, but a 
goal by left wing Tom Smith added insurance for the Irish. Notre Dame put the game away with three goals in a span tion, was moved back to the of only 45 seconds late in the position he played last year. 
third period. Bob Bilton, Frank Green saw action at both O'Brien, and Tom Mooney had the tailback and flanker goals in the scoring spree,slots in the Penn State game. 
while Bob Herber provided two assists.
Green has carried the ball Freshman goalie Lance72 times for 287 yards and Madson saved 37 shots while al­has caught 23 passes for 220 lowing only two goals to St.

yards. 

John's, a team picked to be one 
Washington downs San Francisco despite Montana's 441 yds. passing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -George Rogers rushed for 104 yards and a touchdown as the Wash­ington Redskins overcame a 441-yard passing effort by San Francisco quarterback Joe Montana to record a 14-6 vic­tory over the 49ers last night. 
The triumph enabled the Redskins to improve their record to 9-2 and stay in a first­place tie with the New York Giants in the NFC east. 
San Francisco, 6-4-1, missed a chance to take over the top spot in the NFC West from the Los Angeles Rams. 
Rogers' touchdown midway through the first quarter gave the Redskins the only points they needed. The only other touchdown of the night came in the third quarter when Wash­ington quarterback Jay Schroeder hooked up with Gary Clark for a 27-yard score to make it 14-3. 49ers' initial possession of the 
Montana, in only his second game by fumbling at the Wash­game since returning from an ington 33, the Redskins eight-week layoff following marched 67 yards to take a 7-0 back surgery, completed 33 of lead. A 19-yard pass from 60 passes but suffered three in­Schroeder to Clark on third and terceptions. Rice caught a 10 moved the ball to the San career-high 12 of those throws Francisco 16, and three plays for 204 yards. later Rogers pounded into the 
end zone from the 1-yard line. 
Although the 49ers had little The 49ers drove from their 20 trouble moving the ball, they to the Washington 17 on the en­repeatedly hurt themselves. suing drive, but Ray Wersching San Francisco was called for missed a 35-yard field goal try. 15 penalties for 118 yards and committed four turnovers in Wersching got another the game that lasted nearly chance in the second quarter four hours. following the Redskins' first 
Also, Montana missed a turnover of the night. Seven wide-open Jerry Rice in the end plays after Don Griffin inter­zone in the third quarter and cepted a Schroeder pass at the runnning back Joe Cribbs Washington 42, Wersching dropped what appeared to be a kicked a 34-yard field goal to sure touchdown pass in the make it 7-3, seven seconds into final period. the period. 
Montana's yardage and num­The kick enabled the 14-year ber of attempts were 49ers' veteran to become only the 12th team records. player in NFL history to score 
Mter Montana ended the 1,000 career points. 
McMahon's status still uncertain 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -The Chicago Bears' next three games are crucial to the defending Super Bowl champs, Coach Mike Ditka said yester­day, but the role of injury­plagued quarterback Jim McMahon remains in limbo. 
Ditka said at his weekly news conference that Mike Tomczak again would be his starting quarterback when the Bears take on the Green Bay Packers. 
But, once again, he left the points a game, we'll be hard to door open for McMahon's beat." return. McMahon has missed six 
"My plans are no different games this season including this week," said Ditka. "Mike the last three, and four of the Tomczak will start until I see last five because of arm otherwise." shoulder injuries. 
"This is the key," Ditka said of the team's next three con­"If Jim practices without tests, against Green Bay, Pit­pain Wednesday we'll see what 
tsburgh and Tampa Bay. happens," said Ditka. "It will 
"We can win our Central not be for just one day. He has Division in the next three to practice Wednesday, games. And as long as we can Thursday and Friday. If he's hold our opponents to three ready to.play, he'll play." 
of the top three teams in the Minnesota Intercollegiate Ath­letic Conference. 
"We were quite pleased with the game against St. John's," said Smith. "We got goals from all our front line units, and Lance Madson played really well at goaltender." 
Against Pointer Classic host school Wisconsin-Stevens Point in the finals the following day, the Irish were up against a par­tisan crowd and the top team in the Wisconsin Collegiate Hockey Association. What eventually stopped them was Stevens Point goalie and Pointer Classic most valuable player John Basill, who re­corded 32 saves. 
"We got the shots. We didn't put it in the net, but we were putting in some good shots," said Smith. "It's the same thing that happened in our two games against Kent State, where we got about 90 shots but couldn't score on their goalie. What we have to realize is whe­ther we're making the goalie look good or if he really is that good. We think it's a little bit of both." 
The Irish defense had to cope with injuries during the game to Kevin Markovitz (shoulder), and Lance Patten (wrist), and concussions suffered by Tim Caddo and Mike Leherr. Mad­son still came away with 39 saves, and Smith said the defense played better than the 5-2 loss indicated. 
"We played well except for a couple of mistakes on faceoffs in our end. We improved quite a bit over the Kent State games," said Smith. "We've only given up 13 goals in four games. When you're only giving up three goals a game you should be better off than we are." 
Left wings Matt Hanzel and Rich Sobilo were the only players to score for the Irish. 
With a record of 1-3, Notre Dame goes to St. Thomas this weekend for games on Friday and Saturday. 
!Bd?'UcND '~ 
{\~\~\ h~~ ~ an~ Jramilu i&r.!itaurant 
Bruno's now delivers FREE to ND and SMC campuses. (Delivery starting Monday, Nov. 17) 
n. aa all toppings hiC\ 
~~· \,;·.s; ":\'l:t.'3-Follow 23 South to: <t~S ~e \> 2610 Prairie Ave. .Sqlls. \,.'l>'t:. South Bend Q.g~ 
288-3320 
t t COUNSELINE t t 
t All you do ibs dialf2h39-7793 and ashk forhthe 
t 
name or num er o t e tape you wis to ear. 
t
t Below is the list of tapes offered. COUNSELINE f is a confidential telephone service that offers t f professionally taped materials covering a variety tf of student concerns. 
t t HOURS: Mon-Thurs, 4-12 t 
Couneeline Tape•
t t 
Title
t t 
FT1end•h1p Buildtna: Typea of lnttaicy 
Phyaical Inti.ucy Exp~essins Neaative Thouaht• and Feelinas Dealtns with Constructive Criticisa 
t t 
t t
Dealin1 vith Anaer Undentandins Jealouay and How to Deal With It 10 How to Say "No'•
t t
16 BecOJiins Open to Others 18 Datina Skills 20 FIUMh Hoaoaexuality
t t 
21 Hale W~aexuali ty .30 Anxiety and Posaibl.8 Ways to Cope With It 
32 How to Deal with Lone linesa 33 How to Handle Fears 34 Incleaatne: Self-Awareneu 
t t 
t t
35 Buildtns Self-Esteem and Confidence 37 Relaxation Exercisest 38 Copins with Stress 39 Feaale Sex Role--Chanau and Stresses 40 Hale Sex Role--thanaea and Stresses 44 1Aarnin1 to Accept Yourself
t t 
~0 Unt.ler•tandlng fating OI<Wrden 
' 
M 
Undertttandlng AnexorlcJ 
t 
52 
Undorotandlng Bulimia 
61 
What ia, ThKapy and How to Use It 
70
t ' t
Infatuation or Love? 
t 83 t
How to Cope with a Broken Relationship84 Death and Dytn1 
' 85 
Undersiandtns Grief 90 Helpins a Friend 160 
Early Sips of an alcohol Problem 
t
161 
Responsible Dedaiona about Drinking 
t 
402 t
Self Asaertiveness 
' t 412 t t 
Exanplea of Cont-sact Building431 
What is Depreaaion 432 
How to Deal with O.preasion433 
Deprealion aa a Lif~atyle 
478 t
Becottins Indep~dent from Parents 
,. tr79 
Dealins with Alcoholic Parents 
491 
Suicidal Criaia 492 
Recosnizin& Suitldal Potentials in Othera 
493 
Helpins Soaeone in a Suicidal Crisis • 
COUNSELINE is a completely anonymous
t 
' 
service ofered by University Counseling
t t
Center, University of Notre Dame. 
t t
For further information or assistance, call
t t
239-7336 


---------....----------~---~--. 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 13

The Observer 
LSU 8th 
Penn State regains 2nd ranking 
Associated Press votes and 1,119 points. Oklahoma, a 28-0 winner over 
College football is two games Colorado, jumped from fourth away from the 21st confronta­to third with 1,083 points while tion between the No. 1 and No. Arizona State routed Wichita 2 teams since the Associated State, 52-6, and climbed from Press poll began in 1936. fifth to fourth. The Sun Devils 
received the other first-place 
Miami defeated Tulsa, 23-10, vote and 1,025 points. Saturday night and received 56 Nebraska, which plays Okla­of 60 first-place votes -the Hur­homa on Saturday for the Big ricanes were second on the Eight championship and an Or­other four ballots -and 1,196 of ange Bowl berth, crushed a possible 1,200 points. Miami Kansas, 70-0, and received 964 is No. 1 for the eighth week in points in rising from sixth to a row. fifth. 
Previously unbeaten Mic-
Meanwhile, Penn State higan was sixth with 856 points. turned back Notre Dame, 24-19, The Wolverines were followed and received three first-place by Ohio State, Saturday's op­
••-----lllllftBM--------•
HOURS: 5:00 ·Midnight 272·5455 I
NAUGLES® I
501 Dlxleway North, Roseland, Indiana 
NAUGlES TO YOUR DORM!! I MEXJCAN Kf~~H~~o AM~~~~!.~. ~~~:~EN I 
Taco 1.09 1.69 CUSTOM GRn..l.£D NOT STOCK PD...ED 
I 

Burrito• Naugleburger 1.99 Bean 1.79 2.49 2 Patties with the works 
I 

~e:,•bo ~:~: ~:~: double cheese Ch-1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 
I 

Make any burrito wet for 50 cents!! 2 Patties with Kmuce, 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a tomato, mayo dressing 
pound of goodies! Hamburger 1.19 
I 

Nochoo A Choae 1.19 2 Patties with pickle. ketchup. Have some sauce for no extra charge to spk:e them mustard, onion up that much more. add cheese .20 
Macho Nocbo'o 2.19 
DESSERTS
Relried beans, chips, cheese, peppers, mild meat sauce, spicy 9'een sauce! Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orange Blueberty • Chocolate • Cheny • Vanilla • Root Beer T~tada Gl'ande 3.29 Shakeo 1.09 (In a shell · wonderlul) 
Sundaa 1.49 R..,. ·Platter 
Fudge Brownie .69 Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 
Paotry .69 To•tada Combo 1.59 2.09 
Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 Chilo Ole' .99 2.39 
Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 
DRINK UPI 
Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Cold BeveragesPlatter · Assortment of sauces & side orders. 
Liter· .94 
Want It a spedai way · just order It! 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer. MI. Dew 
Dr. Pepper, Welches, Slice, Lemonade, Ice TeaEnchllodo'o (Plotter of 21 
Meat • lotzo sauce & cheese 2.00 MUk. Orange Juice also available 
Hot Bevel'age•-.47 
I

DINNERS Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea #1 Enchllodo • beef 
•2 Macho Taco SIDE ORDERS 
•3 Meat Bunito fl'ench Frtu .99 
Refrled Beano .99 with chill ..uce .99 
Complete with MexJcan salad. refrled beans, chJIJ & 
Nacho Chip~~ .39
cheese, ~. sour cream & • pile of chips. 
Guacamole · Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 A dinner with~ left"""' for tomonow's LUNCH! Sour Cream .25 
4.79 E-• choae for onythlng .50 I 
Plus taxJl!l..ll!'l!;;!$6.00 rr*>lmum order 



Long Island Club CHRISTMAS PLANE 
Seats still available and not restricted to only Long Island Club members. 
GOING HOME: Leaving Michiana Regional Airport 20 Dec. (Sat.) 12:40 AM 
Arriving LaGuardia 2:20 AM RETURN to N.D.: Leaving LaGuardia, 12 Jan. 9:30 PM 
Arriving Michiana Regional 11:10 PM 
PRICE: A round-trip ticket is $210 
SIGN-UPS: 19 Nov. (Wed.) from 7 -9 pm in the basement of Lafortune 
can if you have any questions: Tom Cummings 1310 or 1307 Matt McCabe 4362 Mike Kozlik 3122 Mary Grace Giorgio 2735 

try to run in a group. On Sat­freshman year and ran well his 
urday, however, they didn't get first time in a meet of this a chance. quality." 
Districts 
continuedfrompage 16 
Mike O'Conner, the top run­Now that the Districts are gear. The competition included ner for the Irish this year, also over, the team is looking ahead Wisconsin, Illinois, Purdue and had an off day. He placed eight to next year. Already Piane is Indiana. runners behind Garrett with a manning the phones in a "This district is one of the time of 31: 15. This shows just recruiting drive for next year's toughest in the nation," said how much a few seconds mat­season. With the gained expe­Piane. "Our goal was to get ter in a race of this type. rience of this year's freshman into the top ten, but with "Dan has experience in this runners and the growing ability Markezich out we couldn't get race," said Piane. "He knew of the older men, the Irish fu­near what we wanted." what it would be like and how ture, as Piane puts it, "looks 
As in all their races, the Irish to run it. Mike has had a terrific bright." 
ponent in the Big Ten show­down. The Buckeyes ran their winning streak to nine games by beating Wisconsin 30-17 and vaulted from ninth place to seventh with 842 points, replac­ing Texas A&M. 
Auburn, last week's No. 8 team, lost to Georgia 20-16 and fell to 15th place. That paved the way for LSU to jump from 12th to eighth with 730 points after trouncing-Mississippi State 47-0. 
Alabama, which dropped from sixth to 11th last week, moved back into the Top Ten. The Crimson Tide beat Temple 24-14 and went up to ninth place with 707 points. 
Southern California rounded out the Top Ten. The Trojans beat California, 28-3, and climbed from 13th to lOth with 641 points. Washington, No. 10 a week ago, fell to the Second Ten along with Texas A&M and Auburn. Texas A&M lost to Arkansas, 14-10, while Wash­ington and UCLA tied, 17-17. 
The Second Ten consists of Arkansas, Washington, Texas A&M, Arizona, Auburn, Stan­ford, Baylor, UCLA, Clemson and Georgia. 
Last week, it was Alabama, LSU, Southern Cal, Arizona, Clemson, Stanford, Arkansas, Baylor, UCLA and Mississippi. 
Associated Press 
The Fiesta Bowl's coup in landing a likely Miami-Penn State national championship game has taken the glitter off the so-called major bowls and left some college football people wondering where the sport is headed. 
The traditional Jan. 1 bowls -Rose, Cotton, Sugar and Or­ange -probably will take a back seat to the Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl, which switched its date from Jan. 1 for prime-time television and boosted its fee to $2.4 mil­lion for each team, an increase of $1.2 million over last season's payoff. 
The Fiesta Bowl deal, an­nounced over the weekend, in­volves the nation's only unde­feated and untied teams in Division 1-A. 
The Jan. 2 deal is contingent upon Penn State beating 5-4-1 Pitt on Saturday. Miami is a heavy favorite to defeat East Carolina, 2-8, on Thanksgiving night. There is an escape clause by which a Penn State loss to Pitt and a Nebraska vic­tory over Oklahoma would enable Miami to stay home and play Nebraska in the Orange Bowl. 
Miami and Penn State are in­
.... 
•"" .i
AP Photo 

LSU quarterback Mickey Guidry outruns the Alabama defense in a game earlier this season. The Tigers have moved to the eighth spot in the AP poll. See story at left. 
Fiesta Bowl outbids Citrus, Gator to get No.1 vs. No.2 showdown 
dependents who can choose their bowl, while the Cotton, Sugar and Orange bowls have conference commitments that provide the host team, and the Rose Bowl has conference tie­ins for both teams. 
In arranging the contract, the Fiesta outbid the Citrus and Gator Bowls. 
"One thing the bowls don't want is a playoff, but the greed of the bowls is going to create a playoff," said Oklahoma Coach Barry Switzer, who has always been opposed to a playoff. 
Baylor Coach Grant Teaff is opposed to bowl bidding wars. 
"Can you believe the bidding got up to $2.5 million?" Teaff said. "That could open a big can of worms. I don't like it. I think the NCAA should step in." 
Cotton Bowl officials still prefer a tie-in game with the Southwest Conference as its host team (the Cotton really has no choice since it is run by the Southwest Conference). So does the Sugar Bowl, whose contract with the Southestern Conference runs out after the Jan. 1 game. Negotiations are under way for a new deal. 
"It's getting tougher out there now," Jim Brock, Cotton Bowl executive vice president, said. "The rules are changing. Some of the bowls are getting corporate sponsors and we're getting into a bidding war. We don't have a corporate sponsor yet, but you never know when that day may have to come." 
Mickey Holmes, executive director of the Sugar Bowl, said he still believes the major bowls' contractual ties with major conferences usually will ensure that one of those games will produce the national cham­pion. 
He noted that the four major 
bowls  have  47  teams  this  
season  as  possibilities  for  
postseason matchups.  

"You just start playing the numbers," Holmes said. "When it comes to the indepen­dents, there are only a hand­ful." 
Bruce Skinner, executive director of the Fiesta Bowl, said of the Miami-Penn State match up: "we're hopeful it will come off. If it does happen, we'll be 'College Football Town USA."' 
"It makes a lot of sense to move the game for the net­works, the institutions and for us," Skinner added. 

I . 
1 

-~-----­
----~-~


r-·---. 
I 
'r 
I 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986 -page 14

The Observer 
Volleyball club set for Thanksgiving tournament 
Digger Phelps' squad isn't the only Notre Dame team playing in a tournament during the Thanks­giving break. The Men's Volleyball Club will travel to Windsor, Ontario, for a tournament at the Uni­versity of Guolf November 28-30. 
American teams competing in this pre-season competition include Ball State, Ohio State San Diego State, and Arkansas. The tourney should prepare the Irish for their tough regular season schedule. 
"This tourney is a good experience for us because we're the only club team in it. It's all varsity com­petition," said Club Vice-President Mike O'Grady. "Our schedule is a mix between varsity teams and club teams." 
As a member of the MIVA (Midwest Intercol­legiate Volleyball Association), Notre Dame plays 
Steve 
Megargee (!! 
Club Corner 
a home-and-home series each year with fellow club teams Michigan, Miami (Ohio), Wisconsin, Bowling Green, Toledo, and Calvin College. Most of the remaining opponents are varsity teams. 
"Our toughest competition from the clubs is al­ways from Wisconsin. They're our big club rival, but we usually win our club matches," said O'Grady. "Wisconsin won it last year, but we won it the year before." 
"Those are the matches we look forward to and get keyed up for," said O'Grady. "Hopefully it will become a varsity sport here in the future, but it's so far beyond our control all we can do is make as tough a schedule as possible." 
This year's Irish have a hard act to follow, as last year's team finished the season with a 21-10 
record, earning  Head  Coach  Bill  Anderson  the  
MIVA Coach of the Year honors.  Four starters  
graduated from that team.  

Returning players include Mark Burdell, Keola Chun, Steve Kranz, O'Grady, Jim Sullivan , John Sullivan, and Mark Trautman. 
The Sailing Club will also be active over Thanks­giving break. After winning the Area A Elimina­tions two weekends ago, the Irish head for the Timmie Angstrom Regatta. 

Fencing 
continued/rom page 16 
Several times the Belles traveled to meets where the Irish would fence four NCAA teams, while Saint Mary's would fence just one. 
Such incidents were frustrat­ing to Saint Mary's. Not only did they cost the team in terms of detracting from its morale, but they also cost the College, which funded such trips, in terms of money. Saint Mary's began questioning the value of the team's travel. 
"Our fencers had trouble get­ting competition," Nester said. "That is understandable be­
: Center lor Teach•ng Non·VIolence &
i NCTV lull-lome slatt. Lodgong & • $325/mo. Research on aggress1on,
I 
puoltstlmg & lobbying aga1nst v1olence I '" TV. him. war toys, sports, erollca,
i 
etc. Non·V!Oient f1lms. Next to U Illinois. 1 Sludenlloans deferable. 217·384-1920. ; P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820
i--.-----·.................,................J 
~EED GIFT IDEAS? 
THE SNITE MUSEUM SHOP 
has the answer 
.~~ ·Engagement Calendars -~~ ·Pottery 

~:p;> ·•: ·T-Snirts . _f. ·.· • Cnr1 stmas cards
1 

· ·~ Open Mon.-Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 1:00-4:00 

Saturday 8-9:30
'3.2~ 
Sunday% 
W.YOOWEAT! 
...Dinner 
,....Styli
, __n-.., 
100 Center Old Brewery Building Mishawaka 
' Reservations 
255-1526 
, __"""'· 5-9 
.... "lat. 5-10 
.........eifiJcK~....·. 
BARBERSHOP 
Darden at Hollyhock 
272-2020 

cause not a lot of schools that have women's fencing are in close proximity to us. There are some around here, but most are on the East Coast. We did send the team on eastern trips, but our fencers were not prepared for that level of com­petition. 
"The traveling became a great expense, and the cost of the fencing program started skyrocketing." 
Another reason for the change in the status of Saint Mary's fencing is the dwindling number of feeder schools, ac­cording to Nester. 
"The majority of the fencing programs that feed us no longer exist," she said. "We don't draw as many fencers as other schools." 
The decision to change fen­cing's status at Saint Mary's, then, is an effective one. 
The sport's new status will afford fencers the opportunity to compete against opponents whose skill is at a level compa­rable to their own, as well as allow the College to stay within its budget. 
"We're still offering a fen­cing program but not at the same level," Nester said. "It will be a competitive club like all the other intercollegiate clubs. This will solve competi­tion problems and at the same time offer students the oppor­tunity to fence." 
The Saint Mary's Fencing Club will join a new fencing program at Notre Dame, and the Club's members will have the opportunity to take lessons 
and to fence competitively. 
"We will be supporting the 
team as far as expenses for 
travel," Nester said. "Team 
members will still be traveling 
and fencing a competitive 
schedule with other colleges." 
An array of challenging op­ponents, free lessons and travel--what more could Saint Mary's fencers ask for after losing their varsity status? 

WHEN IS THE RIGHT TIME TO 
CALL YOUR GRANDPARENTS? 
a) 
Five minutes into "The Lowruncu Wt~lk ~how:' 

b) 
About a week before your birthday. 

c) 
When you iust want to tell them you miss them, and that you ate the last of Grandma's chocolate-chip cookies this morning. 


There·s nothing-g-randparents like bettl'r than a tall frr1m C;_ grandchild in college. But if ~-ou do accidentally happen UJ inw·­rupt La\\Tence. ~·ou ought to hm·e something worth t~lling the~·:·.. 
For example, you could mention that you called usmg AT&T Long Distance Sen·ice because you can depend on AT&T's high quality sen·ice and exceptional value. 
And then you can tell them that AT&T hrives you immediate credit if \'OU dial a \\'rong numb(~r. And that \'OU <:~m count on ATXrT for clear long distant!~ connections. 
Fin ally, of toll rs'·, yo11 should qui!:kly n~assltn· t.h(~m that. you'n· 1·atin~: 
(moug·h, th,~n 11·1 Uwtrt hurry haek 111 llw TV to c:atch Uw n·st of II w 
l;~~nnon Sisl•·r:~'I:IIH· 
()ysl.l·r (:,til rrwdl•·v 


AT&T 
The riqht c;t" He .c 


T0 daY----------------------------T-ue_s_d.ay_._N_o_v_em_b_e_r_1_8,_1_98_6_-_p_a-ge-15 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
&«JJ1 / et.6CTl?IC 
1HPPT!
1lJN(j(j6 / I tiKI§ 
-~I
-n(lfr... tlf/6/NAL • CIIN }W 5/NG r 

OOPAC#\!!
1T?Y .5/N&IN&. 
\ 
\ 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
"Oh, wonderful -you're early." 





Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar, "Politicians, Parties, and Poli­tical Campaigns: Impressions From a Recent Visit to Brazil,'' Scott Mainwaring, Kellogg Fellow, 131 Decio 
12:10 -12:55 p.m.: Art Noontalk, "19th Century European Prints from the Per­manent Collection," Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery, Erica Pistorius Stamper, curatorial intern, Snite Museum of Art 
12: 15 -1:00 p.m.: College of Business Ad­ministration O'Neill Faculty Seminar. Theme: The Ethics of Conflict Resolution, Prof. Anthony Sinicropi, University of Iowa, Board Room of Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
3:30 p.m.: GTE Emerging Scholar Lec­ture in Chemical Engineering, "Process Flowsheeting Using Advanced Computer Architectures," Prof. Mark Stadtherr, University of Ilinois, Urbana, 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 4:00-5:15 p.m.: College of Business Ad­ministration O'Neill Lecture, ·'The Ethics of Conflict Resolution," Prof. Anthony Sinicropi, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, fac­ulty, students, staff and general public in­vited 7:30p.m.: Kellogg Institute and the depts. of anthropology and communication and theatre Latin American Film Series, "Missing," 1982, color, 122 minutes, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 

Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising Call 239-5303 for details. 
SAB presents: 
Saturday, Nov. 22 

CHICAGO TRIP 
leave main circle I lam leave Chicago 1 am 
7 si n-u s in SAB ofice Eat: Giordano's, Hamburger Hamlet 
Watch LSU with fellow domers in 
privately rented club Play: Rush, Watertowers, 
Dance: Club/and, NEO's, etc. 
8:00 
p.m.: Music dept. concert, Notre Dame Chorale Fall Concert, Sacred Heart Church 8:00p.m.: Music dept. concert, voice reci­tal, Christine Viecke, Little Theatre 

8:00 
p.m.: Presentation1'eception for MBA's with a concentration in finance, interested in career oportunities with Ir­ving Trust Company, Alumni Room, Mor­ris Inn 

8:00 
p.m: Information meeting for those interested in a 4-8 week summer work project in Mexico sponsored by CILA, 


Center for Social Concerns 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Southern Fried Chicken Stuffed Cabbage Roll Rotini w/ Spring Vegs Pastrami & Swiss Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Baked Fish Beef & Vegetable Stir Fry Foot Long Hot Dog Deli Bar 

Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Chocolate Factory 
Wednesday and Thursday (the 19th •••·•·•·•• (the 19th and 20th) ·•·•·•• 7,9, 11 pm •·•·•·•·••• 
·•·•·•·•·•• Engineering Auditorium ·•·•·•·•·•·• .$1 admisssion 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Take a vote 5 Complainer 9 Two-footed one 1=--1--+---4-­
14 Jai­15 Political allowance 16 Mr. Moto's 

portrayer 17 Appendage 18 Dill old style 19 Confederation 20 Nickname 22 Banquet 23 "We'll tak -o' 
kindness ... ""' · 24 Santa sidekick 26 My: Fr. 27 Edict 30 Towels off 32 County in Iowa 33 Ring arbiters 36 Cal. valley 37 Jester's 
decoration 38 Lat. phrase 40 King's realm 42 Musical Shaw 
<>1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved
43 Stencil cutters 

44 --Lorraine 4 Book cus­45 Neal's win­todians ning film 5 Hired clappers 48 Alfonso's 6 Incur queen 7 Safe asea 49 Baseball 8 Frivolous one 
family name 9 Poker player 50 Bay window at times 52 Clouseau's 10 Bulwer-lytton 
rank heroine 57 Old Gr. coins 11 Father of 58 "I -man who Paris 
wasn't..." 12 Jagged 59 Vegas game 13 Car scars 60 "-Macabre" 21 Bakery worker 61 Sevareid 25 Forked tongue 62 N.C. college products 63 Villain's 27 Rather 


expression 28 Cheese town 64 Dumb-29 Guitar clamp 37-Mawr 47 Consort of 65-avis 30 Indian city 39 Golfer Trevino Zeus 
31 Summer fabric 41 Artist's 49 Up and about 

DOWN 33 Restored workplace 51 Different 1 Buddies to use 42 Healing plant 53 Pianist Peter 2 Mixed bag 34 Ms Kett 44 Peruvian beast 54 Brain membrane 3 Mary's tag-35 Levantine 45 Parka features 55-about 
along ketch 46 Of cities 56 Writer Jaffe 



Interested in theatre tix? 
~bsolutely no food orbeverage
call Jenny Fisher or Laurie Shea at 239-7757 
all owe 


--~-~--~--­
--~ -~---...---~ --~-~------~-

Seorts 
Injury haunts men's cross country as runners fail to qualify for finals 
ByKELLARDTOWNSEND Sports Writer 
Saturday was a day full of disappointments for the Notre Dame men's cross country team. Despite two weeks of solid practice, the Irish were unable to place in the top ten as a team, unable to send a man to the NCAA Championships, and unable to avoid the thing that hurt them so badly last
• year, injuries. 
After a season virtually free from injury, that grim element reared its ugly head once again. This year's victim was sophomore Ron Markezich. 
Last year Ron was the top Irish finisher in District IV, and he has had a very good season this year. He was the number­three man for the Irish all year and was expected to do well Saturday. However, a sprained ankle near the beginning of the 10,000 meter race ended those expectations. 
"After the first 2,000 meters, Ron was hit when a runner from E. Michigan University fell." said co-captain Rick Mul­vey. "He twisted his ankle badly and was out of the race." 
From that point, nothing went right for the Irish. Junior Dan Garrett finished first for the Irish, but 40th overall with a time of 31:06. Dan was dis­appointed,but Coach Piane felt he did "fine" and "ran his best race this year." 
"Dan ran a fair race," agreed Mulvey. "However, he was upset with how he did. He was hindered by the year out, but he's on the way back." 
With Markezich out of the race, the team's chance of placing in the top ten was greatly lessened. Hampered by the cold weather, wet grass, and the other 150 runners, the Irish had trouble getting into 
see DISTRICTS, page 13 

Irish women finish 20th at districts 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team has returned from battle, cold and tired and with a few new scars, but wealthier today having gained invaluable experience. 
Saturday, on an icy golf course in Normal Illinois, the Irish went head to head with the best runners, in the Mid­west, taking on 22 teams, in­cluding three-time National Champion Wisconsin, who is currently the top-ranked team in the nation. 
The David and Goliath show­down did not end with a miraculous victory but the Irish fought valiantly, finishing 20th overall in the NCAA Dis­trict IV meet. 
A sea of 164 runners rolled out across the fairway behind freshman Susie Favor of Wis­consin, who finished first, while in the middle of the pack the Irish runners fought off the pushing and shoving of the competition as they received their first dose of running in a meet of that size. 
Junior Julia Merkel lead the Irish assault, finishing 51st with a time of 18: 19, while soph­omore Theresa Rice was the second Irish runner across the line, placing 98th in~a time of 
19:06. Junior Kathleen Leh­man, sophomores Kristine 

O.C. Hoobers win 2 to take IH crown 
By CHRIS PAULISON Sports Writer 

For the second consectutive year, an off-campus team has brought home the Interhall soccer championship. 
The Off-Campus Hoobers edged Flanner F.C. in a hard­fought defensive battle, 1-0, yesterday at Stepan Field to gain this year's crown. 
In winning this double-elimination tournament, the Hoobers were called upon to defeat this fiesty Flanner squad two times in as many days. 
Flanner had scorched through the early rounds of the playoffs, reaching the finals without a loss. The most noteworthy of Flanner's three tournament victories came in the third round, when they defeated the same Hoober squad, 2-1, in an overtime shootout. This loss. turned out to be the Hoobers' only defeat, and after a victory over Grace on Friday, they advanced to the finals with a chance to avenge their loss to Flanner. 
With their backs to the wall, the Hoobers recorded a 2-0 shutout victory over Flanner Sunday forcing yesterday's finale. 
After gaining their revenge Sunday, the momemtum had shifted the Hoober's way going into the final game. The Hoobers utilized this swing when left-midfielder Mike Riegler found the lower right corner of the goal to put his team up, 1-0, less than three minutes after the opening whistle. Before the majority of the sparse crowd had even arrived at Stepan, the Hoobers jumped to the lead that goalie Frank Parigi would hold unblemished for the game's duration. 
"Momentum definitely played a major role in this final two game series," commented Flanner captain Mike Gor­don. "After dropping Sunday's game, the whole team felt a bit set back". 
The Hoober team, a veteran club comprised of six former Notre Dame soccer players, attributes player per­sonnel as its key to success. "Our great depth of talent makes for easy substitution, so we are able to have fresh players on the field at all times." said Hoober captain Tom Bowsler. 
Dragani and Teresa Kibelstis, and freshmen Linda Filar and Wendy Murray also turned in strong performances. 
Head Coach Dan Ryan attrib­uted the results to "nerves". "The meet was a good learning experience," he said. "We have a young team, so now we know what it is like to compete with the better teams." 
Ryan did not feel the team's performance was indicative of the quality of the runners, but sees no reason why Notre Dame cannot give DePaul a challenge for the North Star Conference title. This season the Irish were runners-up to the Blue Demons. 
Tuesday, November 18, 1986-page 16 
SMC fencing status reflects perspective 
"We're not cutting fencing," stressed Saint Mary's Ath­letic Director Jo-Ann Nester, who announced the College's decision to change its fencing program from varsity to club status. 
Responding to the claim that the decision is an attempt to eliminate the sport from Saint Mary's, Nester asserted that nothing could be further from the truth. 
"To say we're dropping fencing is just not true," she said. "We don't want to see fencing out of here -we're simply putting the program in perspective." 
Effective immediately, the change places the Saint Mary's fencing program in a position which better suits the College and its fencers . 
Since its start in 1977 , the team has relied primarily on Notre Dame for its survival, as the College lacks adequate fencing facilities. While Saint Mary's fencers practice with Notre Dame, use the University's fencing facilities and travel with the Irish, they have not fenced competitively 
Andrea Lafreniere 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

with Notre Dame, a member of the NCAA. 
"We have always fenced independently," Nester remarked. "We fence as Saint Mary's College. We travel with Notre Dame, but we do not fence with them." 
Saint Mary's, a member of the NAIA which does not sponsor fencing, has always been grateful for the oppor­tunity to travel with Notre Dame and fence NCAA com­petition. After several discouraging trips, however, the College realized the traveling plan had its shortcomings. 
Many of the schools Notre Dame faced either did not sponsor women's fencing teams or chose not to send them to meets. Prior to competitions it was often impossible to find out which of the NCAA teams on the Notre Dame men's schedule would have women's teams attending the meets. The Belles would not discover the number of wo­men's teams they would fence until they arrived at the competition. 
Often the team was disappointed when it got there. see FENCING, page 14 

Junior Mike McNeill and the rest of the Irish hockey team split a pair of games over the 
The Observer! File Photo weekend at the Pointer Classic. Steve Megar­gee details the action on page 12. 



