
-~-~-------------------------­
Rambo at ND -page 6 

Parietals at ND: from non-existent to the present 
Editor's note: This Is the first In a parietals rules in du Lac are based vironment, for someone to violate forbidden without permission of neying directly to or from the Stu­three-day series examining parie­upon three main purposes: that, a serious matter." the rector. dent Center or "any other place of tals at Notre Dame and Saint privacy, security and the "good or­In 1949, the manual, the precur­official entertainment." This lasted Mary's. Today's stories wt/1 look der" principle. No Visitors sor to du Lac, said women guests until the end of the decade. at the history and det~elopment of "I think the primary purpose is were allowed to visit private Under "The Student as a the two schools' parletals regula­privacy," Tyson said. "I think the Though parietals may seem as rooms, but never after 9 p.m. Gentleman," the renamed 1961-62 tions. Tomorrow's stories will issue of security is also Involved." traditional at Notre Dame as foot­In 1952, under the heading Student Guide advised: "The Notre deal with the current policies and A third purpose, which Tyson ball and panty raids, their history is "Norms of Conduct" and the sub­Dame student clearly sees that it is judicial processes. said is "less compelling" than the considerably shorter. heading "Guests," the previous not fitting to entertain ladies in a 
first two, is "that there should be In fact, the notion ofa woman in rule was retained but the cut-off men's residence hall. Neither the By BOB MUSSELMAN an environment In the dorm at a a man's room was so foreign that time was changed to 6 p.m. The visitors nor the hall's residents Senior StaffReporter certain time at night that quiet is the possibility wasn't even men­1955-56 version added that would be at perfect ease." The 
the norm." Tyson said this "good tioned In the Student Manual until women were not allowed on 
Twenty years ago, there were no order" principle is, however, 1949. Before then, all visitors were campus after 9 p.m. unless jour-see PARIETALS, page 5 parletals at Notre Dame. But no strongly supported by some Uni­parletals didn't mean unlimited versity officials. visitation -It meant no visitation at While violation ofthe "sex rule," 

SMC parietals 'protect privacy' 
all. In 1966, the "Notre Dame which states the University's belief 
that sexual union should occur By PEGGY PROSSER evolved through the years, she meaning a student had to sign in at only in marriage is a serious viola­StaffReporter said. the front desk every hour on the tion of a University code, it's not a Before the parietals system, or hour until 2 a.m., Holmes said.
Parletals: parietals violation, he said. Parietals at Saint Mary's are "a "male visitation" as it was once First semester freshmen were "You can do at one in the after­limited time where males and called, men were allowed to the expected to be in by midnight on noon what you can do at three in females can get together for an op­doorways of the residence halls weekdays and 2 a.m. on weekends.
A closer lo 

the morning," he said. "I don't portunity to form close, personal but not permitted inside. This was carefully recorded in a 
think it was the framers ofparietals friendships," according to former "It was a kiss goodnight at the sign-out book, which could also be gentleman" realized it was im­intention 1 5 or 16 years ago to Dean of Student Affilirs, Sister door, that was all," said Thelma cross-checked with other Saint proper to have a woman in his legislate someone's moral life." Karol Jackowski. Holmes, the night assistant in Mary's dorms, she said. room. Tyson said he sees parletals "as a Regina Hall for the past 14 years. The system of cross-checking 
Today, parietals are a way of life regulation that at least the institu­The purpose of parietals is to "From there, they let them come the students names eliminated the at Notre Dame. Though they are a tion feels is necessary when you protect students' right to privacy as far as the lobby, then eventually possibility of students signing out 
product of the reactionary 1960s, have a large number of people and to enhance the character of into the lounges," she said. from one dorm to go to another parletals are also deeply rooted in living together -for safety, for the women's college, Jackowski Men were permitted to stay in Saint Mary's dorm, but instead Notre Dame's moral and social privacy and for good order." added. the lounges until midnight, then leaving campus, Holmes said. 
tradition. "Students need to know that the eventually all night, but were 
University Is serious about the Philosophy Remains the Same closely watched, she said. Group Dislikes Changes • Safety, Privacy, Good Order parietal rule. That's why it's stated "Back then, freshmen had cur­Father David-Tyson, vice presi­the way it is in du Lac. We consider While this philosophy has stayed fews, and anyone caught breaking see PRIVACY, page 5 
dent for student a.tfairs, said the a breakdown in that kind of en-the same, the parietals system has the curfew could be campused," 
VOL XX, NO. 82 

Preparations underway for elections at Notre Dame 
By GERRY GOLDNER 
S~ffR~porter 
Even though second semester has just begun, preparations already are being made for student government dections at Notre Dame. 
Prdimlnary dates and regulations have been set for the upcoming stu­dent body president, student body vice president and Student Senate elections at Notre Dame, according to Tom Brennan. Ombudsman elec­tion commissioner. 
The election date for student 

body president, student body vice 
president and the senate was set for 
March 4 by the senate two weeks 

ago. 
The date for elections of class of­

ficers has not yet been set. Accord­
Ing to Brennan, these elections will 
be after March 4. 
Brennan has set Feb. 18 a.'i the date 

for the first organizational meeting. 
He said this meeting is optional, but 

all prospective candidates are en­
couraged to attend. 
According to Brennan, Feb. 19 has been scheduled a.'i the date for tbe first mandatory meeting for all can­didates. At this meeting, the can­didates will be informed of the election rules and given their peti­tions, he said. The completed peti­tions must be returned by Feb. 24 at '\p.m. 
A completed petition consists of 
I'\0 signatures for student body 
see ELECTION, page 4 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


As an offering 
The nation continued mourning for the crew of the space shuttle Challengerduring the weekend. At right, Diana Zepptent presents Father AnthonyPal­mese a model of the space shuttle during a 
APPboto 
children's mass In honor ofthe crew ofChallenger last week at Our Lady ofLourdes Catholic Church In Melbourne, Fla. 
MONDAY,FEBRUARY 3, 1986 
Once again, no contest for top posts in SMC 'race' 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
AssistantSlllntMary's Editor 
For the second year in a row, there will be only one ticket for the Saint Mary's student body elections, according to Mary Lally, the Saint Mary's elections commissioner. 
The candidates on that un-_ opposed ticket are: junior jeanne Heller for student body president, junior Betsy Burke for vice presi­dent of academic a.tfairs and sop­homore Sarah Cook for vice president ofstudent affairs. 
Lally attributed the unopposed ticket to the "lack of information to the student body on the election procedure." 
The election date is scheduled for Feb. 12 from 7 a.m. until 6 p.m. in Haggar College Center, sht" said. 
"I really encourage people to vote even though the student body is un­opposed, they still need a majority of votes to win." The ballots will have yes, no and abstain so "it would be possible for the student body elec­tions not to receive the majority of votes," Lally said. 
There are, however, two tickets running for each of the class offices, Lally said. 
The candidates for senior class offices include: for Senior Class President, Katie Sullivan, vice presi­dent, Lori Lohman, treasurer, Jenny Feeney and secretary, Clare Haus­mann. They are opposed by Patty 
see RACE, page 4 

The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
Jeremiah Freeman, professorofchemistryforNotre Dame, has been appointed assistant chairman of the Preprofessional Studies Program at the University of Notre Dame by Professor Timothy O'Meara, University provost. Freeman graduated from Notre Dame in 1950. He has been a member ofNotre Dame'sbculty since 1964. -The Observer 
A reluctant, sleepy groundhog named Punxsutawney Phil was dragged from his Gobbler's Knob burrow in Punxsutawney, Pa., at dawn yesterday and failed to see his shadow, predicting an early spring for oniy the seventh time in 99 years. For the record, the National Weather Service, in a long-range forecast issued last week, predicted colder and wetter-than-normal weather for the East and Midwest through April. -AP 
H the day is gray you can go to Bob DeRosia's bar in Philipsburg, Mont., and have afree drink. Ifa day passes when the sun doesn't shine for at least a few seconds, DeRosia buys the house a round that night. But if the sunshines, evenfor a second, get out your wallet. DeRosia wants to promote this sleepy Rocky Mountain town of 1 000 as "The Sun Haven ofthe Rockies," and he's backing up the sloSan with drinks from his bar, the Granite County Way Station. So far this year, he's had to spring for free rounds twice. -AP 
Of Interest I 
Keenan Revue ticket distribution will be 
today at gate 10 of the ACC at 4 p.m. for Notre Dame students. No lines before 1 :30 p.m. Distribution for Saint Mary's students will be at O'Laughlin Auditorium at 5 p.m. No lines before 2:30 p.m. I.D.s are required. One I.D. per ticket. Two I.D.s per person. -The Observer 
Send a sweety the perfect present for Valentine's Day. Candy and carnations are on sale this week from 11 a.m. to 1 :30 p.m. at Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. One-half pound box of Fanny May meltaways and one carnation costs $5. Delivery in­cluded. Sponsored by the Saint Mary's Society for Entrepreneurship and New Ventures.-The Observer 
AWorld Hunger Coalitionwill meet tonight at 
7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited to attend.-The Observer 
Spring break in Florida will be the topic of 
meetings sponsored by Student Activities. Meetings will be held tomorrow at Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's in room 304 and on Wednesday at Hayes-Healy in room 122. The meetings will be held at 7 and 8 p.m. Sony portable stereos will be given away as door prizes. -The Observer 
The Kellogg Institute is sponsoring a brown bag seminar to be held at noon tomorrow in room 131 of Decio Hall. David Benavente, a Kellogg Faculty Fellow, will conduct the seminar which will include ascreeningof"Chile's Forbidden Dreams," a BBC television productionabout the independent theater group ICTIJS. ­
The Observer 

TV's coverage of tragedies limited, not sensationalized 
How many times have you seen the space shuttle Challenger burst into flames? Ifyou have ready access to a television, your answer will undoubtedly be "too many." 
Last Tuesday afternoon, each of the three T.V. net­works aired four straight hours of news concerning the explosion. After the first half hour, there was little ac­tual "news." Brokaw, Jennings and Rather spent four hours replaying the crash footage, talking to resident experts and waiting for the much-delayed NASA con­ference to begin. 
Hundreds of network television stations spent an entire afternoon repeating themselves and biding time. Why? 
Greed was not the culprit. The three networks lost a combined $9 million in airing this news broadcast wit­hout interuption. 
Prestige may have been a factor. It is no secret that it is a matter of pride for each network to have the most watched, most authoritative 
Amy Stephan 

Managing Editor 

not soon forget the sight of Christa McAuliffe's parents as they watched the shuttle explode. But did we need to see this? 
Footage such as this grabs an audience; however, the use of grief as an audience-builder is an affront to the people experiencing the loss. We know these people must be crushed. Do they, or do we for that matter, want their grief displayed on national television? 
How much does television have the right and/or responsibility to show us? As a news media, they 

news department. Each net­have the responsibility to work probably saw this show the public as much in­major event as a chance to formation as the public shine. wants and "needs" to know. 
The networks also saw it In an event of national si,g­as their responsibility to nificance and curiosity such give this tragedy maximum as the Challenger explosion, 
coverage. Most Americans television assumes the were interested in this event public wants to see just and anxious to know exactly about everything. 
what happened. Many Television, however, dif­turned to television for in­fers from other media in formation. On the afternoon several ways. If a story is of the crash, there was a 66 covered extensively in a percent increase in T.V. print medium, one can read viewing over the typical as much or little about this January afternoon. event as one chooses. But Because the shuttle ex­
when one sits down to 
ploded during late morning hours, when most people are at work, viewers joined the broadcast for brief periods throughout the day. With new viewers tuning in constantly, the networks felt it necessary to con­tinually repeat the few known facts and the same take­off footage. Those who couldn't get to a television until late in the afternoon were no doubt thankful. 
But the four-hour unbroken repetition of the same facts was, to say the least, tedious. For the·viewer who justtuned in, four hours ofrepetitionwas useful. For the viewer who kept his set on for four hours, hoping for new information, the situation became almost ridiculous. 
The shuttle explosion footage is both tragic and spec­tacular. But after 50 repetitions, we are no longer moved by it. Finally, a tragedy that should affect us emo­tionally becomes something we are just tired ofhearing about. Saturated coverage tends to saturate our emo­tions as well as our patience. 
Sensationalism also serves to de-sensitize us. We will watch a news broadcast, one 
must either watch the entire program or risk turning away and possibly missing several items. 
Television news also is not limited to the news programs themselves. News updates between enter­tainment programming are common to all three net­works, making it all the more easy for the viewer to overdose on a hot news item. 
Television lacks some of the diversity of other news media. The three networks cover most national events and there is little difference in the approach they take. In print media, one may choose from a spectrum of publications ranging from the highly conservative to the sensational. lp television, one must either watch the sensational footage or turn offone's set. 
Television does not necessarily overplay major news stories any more than do the other news media, nor is it any more sensational. But given the almost identical coverage provided by the three networks on most major stories, television offers fewer options than do other media. The option to turn off the set, especially when coverage becomes too sensational, is always open. 

A General S.A.R.G. meeting will be held tonight at 10:30 in the basementofWalsh Hall for all members ofthe Student Alumni Relations Group and any students who are in­terested in joining the group. -The Observer 
Weather 
Get a clue. Carry an umbrella with you today. Dreary with an 80 percent chance of rain today. High in the low to mid 40s. An 80 percent chance ofrain tonight with lows in the upper 30s. A 50percentchanceofrain tommor­row and mild. -AP 



Design Editor........................And! Schnuck Accent Copy Editor .................. Tim Adams Design Assistant................... Kathy Huston Accent Layout....................... EUyn Mastako Typesetters ...................................Tom Small ND Day Editor..........................larry Burke 
Mary EUen Harrington SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor .................... Keith HarrisonJr. AdDesign ................................ Usa Michaux Copy Editor......................... Margie Kersten Sharon Emmite Sports Copy Editor ......... Dennis Corrigan Typists ............................Jodi SheUenbarger 
VIewpoint Copy Edltor.......Cindy Ranck· Sarah Hamilton 
horst Photographers .................... Hannes Hacker VIewpoint Layout................ Marla Groner SteveJegler Dally Quotes ........................... Tom Darrow 
The OI>Krver ( llSPS W9 Z-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during t"xam and •·acarion periods. TheOI>Krver is published by tht' studentsofthe llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( llO per semester) by writing The Oi>Krver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
•6~% 

The Oi>Krver is a member of The Associated Press. AU reproduction rights are 
resrrv~d. 


Support the 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One 


March of Dimes
Child Health Problem. 
Bllli'H DEFEC1S FOUNDATION 

Attention all .Juniors  
Junior Parents Weekend table reservations for President,s Dinner Tuesday, February 4 7-9 p.m. Tomorrow is the last niphtlll COME TO: BueaentofIAFOR11JNE BRING: Mal•••of6 student J.D.'s to reserve two tables (9-10 people pe~ table)to facUitate seatingwith &lends. lnfonnadonfor eachLD.: -na•berofpeopleIa each party -Ho•ezip code Table reservations are mandatory i(JIOU plan on attending the dinner, even ifyou have not yet registered/or the weekend! Pfeaae Note: Table number assignment will be random and not dependent on the time you come to register.  


The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986 -page 3 

We invite you to stop by, meet us, and talk about opportunities in Sales and Marketing. 
MORRIS INN -ALUMNI ROOM February 5, 1986 7:00-9:00 Presentation and Refreshments 
Graduating Seniors &MBA Students Campus Interviews to be held on February 27, 28 

New and improved 
Notre Dame junior Michelle Witt takes advantage ofthe newly retlot,ated basement ofLafortune. The student lounge area, which was previously the Nazz, is surrounded by students shops. 
................... 

ounseline Voluntee~ Needed!II 
Students needed to staff the information tape 
' '\. / /
service ofCounseling and Psychological Services 
'\. ' / / 
on Friday evenings for 2 hour time blocks. ~ Timesare4-12A m. / 
""' /

1/Interested. calfMary(239-5485) 
v 

ND says 'thank you' to 1980 grad 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
After years of quietly helping ot­
hers, Ann Titus got a big "thank you" 
from Notre Dame on Saturday. 
University President Father Theodore Hesbtlrgh presented Titus with the 1986 Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award during the halftime of the Notre Dame-Marquette basketball game. Titus was given the award In appreciation of her service with a Pennsylvania food bank. 
The award commemorates Notre Dame alumnus Dooley's medical work in Asia in the 1950's. 
"The award was pretty over­whelming. I feel like I haven't done much more than anyone else. It's something I have just always enjoyed doing," said Titus, a 1980 Notre Dame graduate. 
Titus began her work with an emergency food bank hotline and a food stamp outreach program designed to inform the needy of their eligibility for foodstamps. From there, Titus served as warehouse manager at the fledgling Food Pantry Program which 


The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 

Editor-in-Chief 
Applications and personal statements are due Monday, Feb.10 at 5 p.m. For.more Information, see Sarah Hamilton at The Observer office. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

operates as a collection and distribu­tion center for charity food agencies throughout Pennsylvania and eas­ternOhio. 
Titus said the program has since grown to include a 160,000 square 
Ann Titus 

foot warehouse and a garden program for fresh produce supply. 
'Titus said friends and family have been supportive ofher work. "I have gotten my family involved. The food bank started in my church has been taken over by my mother and my fat­her helps deliver food." 
"When I got out ofschool I could 
not imagine going into a traditional 
job," said Titus. She !llid she had al­
ways been Interested In service 
work, Including undergrad par­
ticipation with the World Hunger 
Coalition. Titus said she Is happy 
with her choice. 
"I have enjoyed service work 
more than I enjoyed beinga student. 
I like doing both physical work and 
mental work." 
Titus said she stressed that the 
problem of poverty in the United 
States is a very real one. "Children­
are experiencing malnutrition and 
there are indications it is on the 
rise," she said. "I have also per. 
sonally seen people picking through 
the Food Pantry's garbage 
dumpsters, and the food that we 
dump is really bad." 
Regarding the responsibility of 
Catholics in such a world, Titus said, 
"I think we do have a responsibility 
for each other. It's a matter offinding 
where you can put your talents to 
best use. And I think just about 
anybody can find that within their 
own environment -in business, law, 
medicine, or wherever." 
She said Notre Dame students can 
"find their own way" to live up to 
this responsibility. Titus added, "It 
does not hurt to try." 
Reflecting on the issue of federal government social spending. Titus said that such expenditures should not be abandoned despite the sys­tem's problems. "I don't think you can replace government programs with charity food pantries. We (the Food Pantry Program) can't help people on an ongoing basis like the government can. We're just for emergency situations," she said. 
Titus said her plans for the future include continued work with the food bank. "I'll always back them in some position," she said. Titus recieved a mlnlture replica of the Dooley statue which was dedicated at the Grotto on Saturday. 


_-• Inland Steel 

The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986 -page 4 

Election 
continuedfrom page 1 
president and student body vice president. For class officer can­didates, 100 signatures are needed. Seventy-five signatures are needed by senate candidates. 
Brennan said a list of candidates will be posted on Feb. 25 outside the Ombudsman's office. Campaigning will begin at 12:01 
a.m. on Feb. 26. Campaigning will conclude at 11 :59 p.m. on March 3 with the elections on March 4. A run-off, if necessary, will be held on March6. 
The criteria for winning the elec­tion is 50 percent of the voters plus one. If no one claims this majority, the two candidates receiving the highest number of votes will be selected for a run-off. 
According to Brennan, the con­stitution permits "any Notre Dame full-time undergraduate in good academic standing" to run for the office of student body president or student body vice president. 

Race 
continuedfrom page 1 
Curran, Maureen Emy, Chris Rashid and Mary Roe. 

The junior class candidates are: president, Eileen Hetterich, vice president, Jill Winterhalter, treasurer, Ann Ruth and secretary Molly Stanton. They are opposed by Mary Kim Koch, Louise Foley, Amy Falkosky and Tami Rose. 
Sophomore class candidates are for president, Janel Hamen, vice president, Annie Buch, treasurer, Molly Flynn and secretary, Rozel Gatmaitan. They are opposed by Theresa Prieshoff, Allison Weston, Kiernan Walter and Beth Kerper. 

I..ally is also in charge of hall elec­tions which will take place in early April, she said. 
"My goal as election commis­sioner was to increase the number of people running and involvement," I..ally said. "I feel it has been success­ful as tar as class elections but I am disappointed to see the student body ticket as unopposed because it would make a more interesting race ifit were opposed," she said. 
The student body positions are open to anyone who is a second semester sophomore and for trans­fer students who have; completed at least two semesters at Saint Mary's, she said. Students may feel they need experience in student government to run, but all that is needed is "dedication, time and the willing­ness to learn," I..ally said. 
Two mandatory meetings were held for students interested in run­ning for student body and class offices. At the mandatory meetings, election rules were explained and dates and times were specified for campaign rules, she said. Campaign­ing begins on Saturday at 5 p.m. and ends on Feb. I 1 at midnight. 
I..ally said the rules are specific and 
any candidate disobeying the rules 
will be allowed one warning. On the 
second violation the candidate or 
ticket will be disqualified. 
April 1 will mark the day the newly elected candidates take office. I..ally said the elections are this early in the semester so the new officers will have "adequate time to prepare for next year." I..ally said the "time ofthe elections should be con­sidered," noting the time may be too early for some people and in tum the number ofpeople running for office is lower-than it could be. 
"Saint Mary's has had a high percentage of voter turnout in the past, compared to other campuses," she said. She noted the high turnout to the small student body and stu­dents "familiarity with the can­didates." I..ally said she hopes for at least 50 percent of the students to vote in the elections. 
Brennan said that students in­terested in becoming involved in the election (other than as can­didates) are encouraged to contact their respective dorm judicial board commissioners or OBUD. 
Brennan said that the election rules will remain the same as in past years with the notable exception of the recently-ratified senate amend­ment which permits official or­ganizations to make non-mone'tary endorsements ofcandidates. Official organizations include:. any dub/organization officially recognized by the University, stu­dent government and the respective hall governments, and the campus media. 
Brennan said he expects more campaigning than in the past if the various organizations "actually go out and support a candidate." These endorsements are non-monetary, he added. Endorsements also may not appear in the form of any printed material except that which the can­didate purchases through his cam­paign fund. 
Endorsements will be submitted on an official endorsement form to 
the five-man OBUD Election Com­
mittee. The endorsement form will 
be available at the OBUD office. 
No endorsement may be received before the campaigning period begins, Brennan said. 
The Senate also approvea an amendment last week which raised the campaign spending limit from S95 to U25 for the offices of stu­dent body president and student body vice president. 
Onbudman's role in the election is primarily as a coordinator, said Brennan. Ombudsman's duties in­dude: orgamzmg the election process, distributing and collecting petitions, supervising the voting, counting the votes, and most impor­tantly, monitoring the candidates and enforcing election rules. Each dorm's judicial board actually con­ducts the voting, he said. 
With regard to the problems arising in last year's elections, Bren­nan said, "We don't expect a repeat of last year, but if someone tries something, we will be ready to deal with it." 
Chinese. Vietnamese & American Food 
Oriental Express 
Carry Out· Dining Room 272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~\0~ 

Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~'-I 
on State Road23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. 8t Weds.107.off withdiningroomcoupononly 
IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! 

Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage SPECIAL! Jan. 25-Feb. 14, 1986 

Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road 
'IM-HAWAfM Mishawaka 
• 
14.LARGE THIN CRUST PIZZA any topping with extra cheese 
PLUS 
Garlic Bread· with che.ese 
Delivery Orders Only 
(plus delivery and tax)





$6.99 • 

• 


The Student Alumni Relations Group--­(S.A.R.G.) will be holding an informational meeting tonight at 10:30 p.m. in the basement 
of Walsh Hall. 

EVERY FRAIVIE. 
Right now, when you buy prescription lenses* at NuVision, 
you'll get up to 600fo off on every eyeglass frame in our entire 
collection-no exceptions. 
Plus we'll include a choice of glass or plastic lenses, 
oversize lenses, or extra strong prescriptions at no additional 
cost. Now you can buy the glasses you want with all these 
extras at our lowest prices. 
And you can save on contacts. Starting at: 
Clear Tinted
539 579

Daily-wear Daily-wear 
Clear Extended-wear 
564 
SOFT MATE E. W. 

Eye examination extra. Available by independent licensed optometrists. 
•Offer gocx:i ec participating offices only; Some restnctiOns apply. 

CoiJYright 1986. NuVisiCJn. Inc. 

LaSalle Square 234·3123 
UniversHy Park Mall 277·8682 

McKinley Town &Country 256·1864 
Elkhart Maii·Eikhart 295-2496 

Plymouth Center·Piymouth 936·5012 
1012 Main St.·Niles 684·8008 

, ~ 
,
The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986-page 5 , 
1 
1
Parietals 
continuedfrom page I 
guide suggested students entertain women in the hall parlors or the Student Center. 
The 1967-68 directive wa..'i more blunt: "Students may have women guests in student rooms only on occasions announced by the Dean of Students." Such special occa­sions occurred approximately a dozen times each year, such as football weekends, Mardi Gras and Prom. 
The following year, students finally became tired of visiting with women in 9' by 12' hall par­lors and "in the well-lighted cham­bers ofLaFortune," according to an article in Scholastic magazine. 
In March 1969, the recently­formed Student Life Council proposed that experimental offi· cial visitation hours · parietals, be allowed each weekend. 
The proposal granted halls, for their individual implementation, 24 hours of visitation each weekend, from ') p.m. until 7 p.m. Sunday. Visitation hours were not to begin before noon or last beyond 1 a.m. Visitors were to sign in at the hall desk, and violations were dealt with in the hall. 
The Board of Trustees approved what became known as the "Hall Life Experiment" on St. Patrick's day 1969. The 1970-71 manual added new hours · parietals each night of the week until II p.m., 2 
a.m. Friday and Saturday. Viola­tions came under the jurisdiction of the dean ofstudents in 1971-72. In 1972· 73, weeknight hours were extended until midnight. 
The first edition of du Lac, in 1974, explained parietals using the language that continues in the cur­rent volume. The newest du Lac, 1984-86, adds a final sentence: "Overnight parietal violations in· volve suspension or dismissal." 
Was More Liberal Than Others 
As rector of Cavanaugh Hall since 1963 and Stanford Hall in the late 19SOs, Father Matthew Miceli has seen the sweeping changes that have made women a common component of the Notre Dame residence hall landscape. 
"There were no girls on campus, so it didn't make much difference" that there were no visiting hours, Miceli said. 
As for mothers and sisters, "We didn't get too many visitors in those days," before the advent of more convenient and faster travel. 
Students weren't upset with the strict rules, he said. In fact, "we were more liberal at that time than other schools," including some state institutions. Miceli said he could not remember dealing with any violations during the years before parietals. 
But student unrest in the late 1960s caused "a lot of writing and talking about the issue," he said, and parietals became part of the nationwide "general relaxation all over," and "a catering to students doing the unresting." 
When parietals first went into ef. feet they didn't make much dif· ference, since the campus had not yet become coed. "But after coeducation, there was a greater need for interaction between men and women," Miceli said. Private rooms had to be used because dorms and the student center weren't set up for proper social and educational gatherings. 
Miceli said he has no problem with the current rules, and the drastic change hasn't shocked him. 
But he said he thinks limited visitation, as opposed to unlimited, is a proper policy, "like wearing your pants in public. It's a decent thing to do. It's decent and gentlemanly. Propriety demands it. 
Did you know.. 
You have the right to a wrlffen statement of the rules and regulations of the University. DuLac serves this purpose. 
You have the right to a wrlffen statement of your rights. Page 29 of DuLac serves this purpose. Contact your Judicial hall chairperson for additional Information. 
You have the right to be presumed Innocent until proven guilty. 
You have the right to deny any or all charges made against you. 
You have the right to Undergraduate Student Counsel. Contact Karen lgwersen, Tim McDowell or Pat Flood for more Information. 
Know Your Rights 
"1 sf of 5 advertisements on Students' Rights when accused of a University offense. 
Student Government 


1 
1 1 
1 
1 
~ 

,1 
., 

"Umoja:A Spectrum ofUnity," was tbe theme of Dame. The Notre Dame's Voices of Faith Gospel tbe gospel choir concert held by the Black Cultural choir officially began tbe events for tbe festival 
l
Arts Festival last night In Washington Hall atNotre which will continue through March 1. 
Privacy 
continuedfrom page I 
In 1972, · a proposal which allowed men in student rooms was drawn up. But this idea came un­der fire by a group called "Concerned Alumnae, Parents and Members of the Saint Mary's family." In a letter, they expressed their opposition to the proposed policy and urged other parents to protest the new policy. 
The opinions of the Holy Cross Sisters was divided over the effect of the new policy on the character of the College, according to Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy, archivist ofthe Cushwa-Leighton library. 
"There were some who could see the need for them, but others were extremely opposed to the idea," Dunleavy said. 
An article in the The Observer said the group's arguments were insulting to the students. "Their implication that the approval of this policy would immediately open the floodgates of carnality upon the previously pristine Saint Mary's is illogical and naive," it said. 
On March 19, 1974, the revised parietals system was fully imple­mented. Men were allowed in rooms on Fridays from 7 p.m. to 12 a.m., Saturday from 12 p.m. to 12 
a.m. and Sundays from 12 p.m. to 10p.m. 
Men left their identification cards at the front desks ofthe halls, which were staffed by students during parietals. Men also had to be escorted by a hall resident at all times. 
In 1977, students were granted a parietals extension. Men 'were allowed in the dorms until 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. These hours were originally ex· 
Your plasma makes· a difference. 
"""" nooouors 
aoout •t-vour 
OOnatoon make<. a Ooflerenc<' Tne Ooflerence De­tween a bOv 11!00· ng a normal. act..e ore or berlQ an lllllatoa Tt~e~e l:lClvS nave a OIOOCI O!';t'ase CollleO nemootol&a. wn.cn \lr!1lliY means rnar rne.r OIOOCI camot ClOt llV ol'lell Tney previOUIIy led apmrv Sheltered.,., lleeatM rnev co.JIO IJieed to aeatn from amonor flii'V Toaav rnev can oe lr!Yti!O Wltn a ciOftng factor rnar their own 000oes 
oonotor~t 
And that clOtting factor Is taken from the plaSma you donate. 
How much plasma 
IS needed? A IOf. fa e•amole. one ....,t of I)I.WTla y1EICIS 15 tnan a r~tul of tne oottng tacror ~need. ~ you can ~ee the need ta I¥Qe 'o'Oiul1'oe\ ofi)I.Wna lUSt lor flen'lO­~ NlCI t~ of ....,ts of I)I.WTla are u1e0 on tlOIPtaiS ana en-eroencv rooms Pve<V aav to ~ave 
manv •wes 
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
Pt.wna IS the loQuoO on wn.cn OIOOCI c~ ill~ "ans· P()I'U!O AP()I'Olm.ltelv flail of OIOOCI 1\ pi.Wna The OIOOCI c~ ille lel)ilrated from vour p&ayna ar tne aonor center ov a oroce<.s called p&aVnapnere<.oS and returnea to vour ooov Tne I)I.WTla taoen 11om vour OIOOCI IS aoout 9~ rnoner aiS aro water. ~t of the rern.v>Oe< IS ororeons 11 IS tl'lele oro· reons rr.at ille u1e0 to 
Cash For Your donation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PLASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your d.onation i~ important, so important that we'll pay $7.00 for your f~rst donatton and $9.00 if you donate a second time within fht1 same ....... , calendar week. In addition, if you meet the physical requirements 
~~  you'll be given a FREE physical and $60.00 worth of FREE Lab Tests.  
~  Open.  TUES., WED., THURS., FRI., 9:0D-5:00  
- AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS  

515 L'..colnway West, South Bend 
New Donors Bring In this ad for a s4Bonus after your first donation. 
perimental, but eventually became permanent. 
November 1982 marked the beginning of yet another trial period for the parietals system. A 

1 change made weekend hours the , same, but men were allowed in the 1 dorms from') p.m. to 10 p.m. Mon­, day through Thursday. I 
In March 198') College Presi­I dent John Duggan approved the most recent parietals extension. The hours are now Monday through Thursday from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m., Friday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m., Saturday 12 p.m. ro 2 a.m. and Sunday 12 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
These changes came after stu­dent government distributed a parietal survey to students. The results of the survey indicated stu­dent interest in a parietals exten­sion, said Jackowski. 
Students Favored Changes 
Since the latest change, selected faculty, stall and administrative personnel have objected to the earlier locking of the doors, ac­cording to Jackowski. 
These people had to either re­route the way they left the building or were given keys to the locked doors, said Anne Marie Kollman, student body president. 
Students are satisfied with the latest change in hours, and there are no plans in the immediate future for another change, accord­ing to Kollman. 
The Proof 
is In 
the Taste! 
Open Mon-Sat 11 aaa San4paa 
Plzza-Sandwlchea-Salads Beer& Wine 
277·2020 l.oeGted Ia RoaeiGad (Next lo llaa,.,_J 
...,.,.s.r sw.,~o~ ~U~~W~IIuUIO\IIr..... ~• 
TQT ............wcwAT'SSN:I­
CAU. Do\YS.l-1& WlliUNDS 
1717 I South -­
South Bond, ·-.a;J7 

f-_--__-_-~-=---~---­
Accent 
Monday, February 3, 1986 -page 6 
Blood! Guts! Gore! Rambo invades ND! 
kicks over the silverware where out ofthe Badin parking lot with orave group ofHoward and Dillon you always get the wrong spoon pistols drawn. Rambo meets them residents who have gotten close
Kris Murphy 
and suddenly spots his main ob­with a thick rain of howling lead enough to nail this fearsome demi­jective. The food. He attacks merci­and they fall instantly onto the cold god with snowballs. They don't like
' ,... 
lessly, riddling scrambled eggs with cement. parietals either, but they refuse to
Altered 
r 
incendiary bullets and bombing the stand by and watch as their campus r doughnuts into a crumby, frosted He crouches behind a pillar as his is reduced to rubble. Snowballs 
~ 
I 
saw "Rambo" Friday night. Great ofhis official objectives; but he mess. walkie-talkie crackles to life. His descend on him in a vicious rain 
~ 
flick. Sylvester Stallone (alias instinctively senses injustice. superiors inform him that there will and he falls face first into the snow. great big giant pectoral muscles) He frees himselffrom his tangled He explodes into the dining be a beer drop on North Quad in The Domers advance, steadily 
I"'"
"" 
drops into Vietnam by parachute. chute and shakes the snow from his room where cafeteria workers approximately 15 minutes. Kegs pounding him with ice cold hell.r ~ His mission -to destroy the entire body. He pulls a grenade from his cower behind tables and chairs. He and six-packs will be dropped in by Rambo is pinned, but his mind r races in an attempt to survive and
surface population ofsoutheast Asia belt and clicks off the safety on his shows no mercy. He eliminates the planes in an attempt to solve what r in 36hours. attack rifle. His mission has begun. salad bar with a single grenade and Rambo knows only as "that alcohol complete the mission. With a super­" Well, I exaggerate a little. He's sends the grape juice back to the problem." He has 15 minutes to human effort, he rises from what r actually supposed to~ rescue some~ Leaping forward, he opens the horrible place that first spawned it. complete his mission before the appears to be a snowy grave.r American POW's who've been held door and tosses in a grenade. An He senses victory and begins to beer drop and his extraction. He Yanking 1 0 grenades from his belt,
, 
captive by the Vietnamese since the ear-shattering explosion follows as back out ofthe building firing par­knows it is not enough time. He he flings them about the quad. They 
war ended. Stallone eventually cafeteria workers scream and bits of ting shots as he goes, leaving Uni­decides to head for the Administra­explode, sending huge clods of 
accomplishes his mission all alone versity Food Services in its death tion Building. 
the Oak Room cut through the new earth into the air and melting every
and without ever smiling. Along the throes.
morning. Expecting heavy resiS­inch ofsnow. The Domers are out 
way we get treated to such great tance, Rambo advances, spewing Some die-hard students burst ofammo. The campus is his. 
r 
dialogue as "So Rambo, what bring
,. molten death from his huge black The horrible cries and explosions from Alumni in a desperate attempt As his adversaries flee, Rambo 
you here?" and "I'm comin' to get
r assault gun. have awakened the sleeping to get to 8 a.m. classes. This will not collects himselfand again begins his 
YOU!" 
campus. He steps out ofthe dining do. These early classes must be deadly march. Women scream as he I went to bed that night thinking 
He spots that little machine that hall to see windows opening and stopped at all costs. He mows the blows up Detex boxes and breaks about Rambo and wondering ifthe 
beeps whenever you stick your ID students running. A small group of students down in their tracks. parietals, for it is only 8:1 5 a.m. 
things he valued -big triceps, hand card in it and he reduces it to metal lightly armed but lightning-quick He is so intent on eliminating There is little opposition on the grenades, beautiful women with shavings with deadly precision. He Notre Dame_ security police charges everyone that he does not hear a way to the Dome. The word has automatic weapons -were impor­spread. He is looking for Hesburgh. 
tant and relevant to me as a Notre 
Dame student. I fell asleep and He runs up the front steps of the began to dream. 
giant Ad Building, scattering and 
maiming security guards as he 

Kris Murphy Dreamscript no. 8,360 
advances. He fires his machine gun

Subject: The movie he just saw 
sporadically and without reason. 

after drinking four Budweisers. 
Floor tiles fly up in a spray and the Tide: "Rambo Saves Notre Dame walls are riddled. Up the stairs he From Traditional Catholic Values" 

goes, his face set in a hard, minhless sneer. Glass shatters. The smell ofIt is almost dawn. Snow falls 

gunpowder fills the air.

lightly as Rambo's plane approaches the South Bend area. He standS near 
Finally he reaches his objective.

the door ofthe small transport Father Ted's office. The man whoplane with his parachute on his rules du Lac. Rambo kicks in theback. He carries an AK-47 attack door and utters his first words ofrifle, 25 hand grenades, two .45 
the long, terrible morning:caliber pistols, a bow and some "Hesburgh, 1came for YOU!" 

arrows, a squirt gun, and enough Father Ted sits serenely behindammunition to blow up the western his desk. He is used to obnoxioushemisphere. 
students. He too utters his first He is dressed in black except for 
words of the day: "Young man, you one ofthose obnoxious headbands. 
are obviously drunk and very disor­His Mission: to rid Notre Dame of 
derly. That incurs a S200 fine, and the alcohol policy, parietals, stu­
I'm recommending suspension. The dent government, ethanol, profs 
alumni will have your head when who give quizzes on Fridays, and 
they see what you've done to the this column. 
football program." 
At approximately 6:55 a.m. he Rambo falters. For the first time jumps. The night is cold and black ever, he is deeply afraid There is no as he dives headfirst into destiny. wrath like die-hard alumni. He Before his chute even opens, the starts to lower his weapon but then smell ofethanol hits him in a sick­snaps it up again. He has come this ening wave. At 2,500 feet, it is con­far. The mission must be com­centrated and potent. He gags and pleted. chokes, reaching with teary eyes for They remain motionless, eyes his ripcord. He finds it just in time locked, unflinching. Destiny hangs 
and the white silk blossoms in the heavy in the air. Men ofsteel, wills cold Notre Dame night. ofiron. Rambo begins to squeeze the trigger. Hesburgh reaches for 
He has planned to land some­his pen ... where near the traffic circle and immediately destroy the entrance I awake suddenly. I am covered gate and that guy who asks you how in a cold sweat. My body shakes. I long you're keeping the car on have seen great men do battle. I 
campus, but he is blown offcourse have sensed the apocalypse. I have and lands in front ofthe South tasted death and courage. I have got Dining Hall instead. This is not one to stop writing this stuff. 
'Dream' details the highs and lows of a rock 'n' roller 
H 
MICHELE McKEEVER Dream" filled in the sketchy reality touching on the various stages of shoulder like a security blanket. warns agitlnst building castles in the features writer behind the dream. his life. Danny enters the bare stage With it, he'll prove himself to the air, he is accused ofhaving lost his The play traces the life ofDanny full ofhostility and doubt. He is a world. Danny becomes "Rave," a fire. ave you ever dreamed ofliving young, disillusioned man rejecting legend in the making, and the fans with the fame and glory ofa the world he was brought up in, his love him. Rave is sure he's reached
On stage==•
rock 'n' roll superstar? Weren't you Living the parents, and even his own identity. immonality, until one day his At the risk ofsounding preachy, at least slightly jealous ofyour A naive, young Danny sets out to producer shoots him down, saying though, Danny again tries to save
Rock and Roll~
favorite group when you left their rescue the world from its drudgery "he just doesn't have it anymore." the youth of the world. This time, last concert? Dream and deceit, only to discover that he he speaks in the voice ofex­
Friday night at Washington Hall, a isn't a one-man rescue team. Danny returns in the third act, perience, extolling the old­small audience got a glimpse ofthe McCormack ( M. E. Foley) who When his savior attempt fails, older and wiser. He laments that his fashioned virtues and the life behind the adoration and becomes the rock 'n' roller known Danny's spirit breaks, along with his son, whom he barely knows, is timelessness ofleading a good life. hoopla typifying the rock 'n' roll as "Rave." In three acts, Danny dreams. His one source ofhope is currently chasing the same empty He has lived the rock 'n' roll dream, lifestyle. "Living the Rock and Roll shares his own poignant memories, the guitar he slings over his dreams he once did. When Danny and now it is over. 
~i~~~_()__i_Jl___t_________________M_on-da-y,_Fe-bru_~
__3,1-98_6_-p_ag-e7 

'Star Wars' defense must be based on infallibility 
Much has been and will be written about nearly insurmountable challenges to the consultant Fred Hoffman also lends enthusias· judgment or whatever caused the Challenger the Challenger disaster. The Initial reactions defense system. tic support. Both reports were interpreted op­explosion would not just sit as an error to be of shock and sadness are gone, and we are led Rosenberg writes about three specific timistically by the administratiQn. worked out by more Pentagon-supported to consider what the event means politically. reports In which the administration twists the A member of th~ Fletcher Commission, Air scientists. Rather, it would be perhaps the last Let us reflect for a moment on what this says findings to produce optimistic outlooks. The Force Major General John Toomay, objected mistake ofour civilization. about the feasibility of a perfect technological first one, still classified and thus unnamed for to the final summary of the report, claiming anything, specifically about President the public, was the original report of the that the tone was "forthright." He complained Reagan has a dream. He is determined to go Reagan's dream ofStrategic Defense Initiative, White House Science Council that is thought that the administration refused to emphasize through with SDI research no matter what popularly known as Star Wars. to have given Reagan a thumbs-up on Star the long list of disadvantages of an SDI evidence shows it to be a silly waste of tax 
Wars and presentation to the public. The program. dollars. Consequently, the White House will White House to this day will inform us that the The Hoffman Commission report in fact did characterize any report that expresses
Ken Kollman 
report told of a breakthrough In astronomy not endorse the SDI, but rather suppported a reservations about SDI as favorable. Or the that made SDI possible. limited system of ABM missiles to decrease reports never will be released. Rosenberg But unnamed sources who are connected Soviet confidence in a first strike. Science quotes a government source familiar with one
no easy solutions 

closely with the report say the answer to the magazine quotes Hoffman himself saying that unreleased classified document, "The study "big question" offeasibility and worthiness of for SDI to work, "you would need everything didn't meet with their approval, so it was The possibility of a successful missile an SDI program was unmistakably "NO, in to work. Even as a nontechnician, it seems to suppressed." 
defense system has bc:en in question since capital letters, " said Rosenberg. So even me that the likelihood of this happening is This questionable habit ofshaping research _... Reagan first made his dream public with his before Reagan presented it to the public and small." to fit the administration's visionary defense famous Star Wars speech in March 1983. In research began, the Information was fitted to This mention ofthe necessity for pe~fection system rather than the other way around fact, It was In question even before that. the administration's liking. brings me to my point. For SDI to work, it seems a bit like denying the truth. And It also 
Act·ording to Tina Rosenberg In this Repeatedly cited by the administration as must work perfectly. In other words, an im­seems a likely truth that all technology Is fal­February's The Atlantic Monthly, the Reagan evidence in support of Star Wars, two more perfect missile defense system is no defense lible. Why keep funding a defense program administration has misread some of its own classified reports evidently remain highly system at all against an all-out nuclear strike. that relies on perfection if seven people can Internal reports on the feasibility of the SDI, skeptical. What is called the Fletcher Commis· While the NASA space program can con· perish so easily when perfection falls short? Intentionally highlighting one or two sion has been cited many times by Secretary of tinue to progress after a disaster, we must paragraphs of optimism in these documents Defense Caspar Weinberger as giving "great question whether it makes sense to go on 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and 
that are volumes thick, while ignoring promise of... improving strategic stability," spending for a defense system that relies on 
government major and a regular Viewpoint 
hundreds of pages of evidence telling of and that a report by a panel led by defense infallibility. A mistake in technology, theory, 
columnist. 
Photos by Drew Sandler 
Campus comments: Why are there parietals? 

Cause we're Catholic.  To preserve the privacy of the  Lets everyone do what they want  It probably has something do to  To keep our morals up and for  
males and females. Any school  to do without worrying about  with  the  parents  of students.  privacy.  
with single-sex dorms is going to  who's around.  lbey feel better having students  
have a visitors' policy.  chaperoned.  
Marg Clark8on  PatrickWenning  Mary Kim Koch  Trecy Lysaugbt  Patty Swope  
History  American Studies  Marketing/~ent  MBA student  ALPP  

Doonesbury 
AN OVE:I?IJ()5t teTS600VER JUST /XX:5N1 IT A6AIN, {}f;AN MAKE 5ENSC, HON&Y. WHtN 010 
j CUIW5. {J(JKE YOULA5T5U 
• KNW HIS Hlfrl7 : liMITS. 
JIROf.AVO 10P.M. 'ttJOI)()Or'JHA75 IT! H&'O J/NHAO ()UK& ISJV'raAl),
HISMA93AGe 

HE-'5 A 'ZlJMBie/
ANI?H&IAJ45UN­

lA!& !3l/R.IED HIM
IA/INOING IA/ITH A FIFTH OF.. 
I 

Quote of the day 
"All things brightand beauti­ful, 
All creatures great and small, All things wise and wonder­ful, 
lbe Lord God made them all." 
Cecil Frances Alexander (1818-1895) "All Things Bright and Beautiful" 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
~he ObserYer___ 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. SaratJ E. Hamilton Business Manager ....... .............. David Stephenitch
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 
M81leging Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager.... .. .......... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. II does not neceuarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
administration of etther institution. The news ia reported aa accurately and objectively aa pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healytanes. letters and the II"ISide Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphyava1lable to all members o1 the community and the free expression of varying opinions on PhotOQraphy Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through letters, 11 encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3,1966 
t 
I• 
The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4761.-The Observer 
Men's and Women's indoor soccer 
tournaments will be held by the NVA. Rosters must include a mini mum ofeight players and should be turned in with a S5 entry fee by Wednesday. For more information call the NVA.-The Observer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast tonight's NO­Maryland basketball game at 7:20 p.m.. Pete Pranica and Vito Gagliardi will handle the play-by-play. -The Observer 
The ND field hockey team will hold a meeting Thursday at 5:30p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. All members of the 1985 team and any new prospects should attend. Members also are reminded to come dressed to participate. For more information call Head CoachJill Lindenfeld at 239-6281. -The Observer 
Body Fat Testing will be offered by NVA to the first 75 people free ofcharge tomorrow at 6:15 p.m. -The Observer 
A campus tug-of-war contest is being or­ganized by the ND Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to. assemble teams. For more information call Kevin Lennon at 239­6440. -The Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NVA. -The Obser­
ver 

The ND Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4 761. -The Observer 
Moonlight cross country skiing will be of­
fered by the NVA on Thursday from 7 p.m.-10 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Anyone interested may rent skis at a cost of n at the Rockne Golf Shop. For more information call NVA. -T~ 
Observer 

Hydrorobics,aerobics in the water, will begin tonightat 
6:45 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Gasses will be held every 
Monday and Wednesday. For more information call NVA.-The Ob· server 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVA at 2 39-5100. -The Observer 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shirt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out apledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -The Observer 
N.Y. Giants Quarterback PhilSimmsthrewthree second-halftouchdowns to lead the NFC to a 28-24 victory over the AFC in yesterday's Pro Bowl. Simms, making his first appearance in the NFL's all-star game, completed a 15-yarder to Washington's Art Monk and two-yarder to Dallas' Doug Cosbie before hitting Tampa Bay's Jimmie Giles from 15 yards with 2:47 to play to rally the NFC from a 24-7 halftime deficit. Simms saw more action than expected, as starter Jim McMahon was suffering from the effects of a bruised knee sustained in last sunday's Super Bowl. -AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Brie£5 should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -Tbe Observer 
Holy Cross coach Carter found dead 
WEST BOYLSTON, Mass. -Holy Cross football Coach Rick Carter committed suicide by hanging yes­terday, said Worcester County Dis­trict Attorney John J. Conte. Carter was42. 
West Boylston Police Chief Robert Barton said in a statement that Carter was found dead in his home about 8:14 a.m. by his son, Nick, age 21. 
News of Carter's death sent shock 

At times during former Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust's five­year tenure, Carter had been men­tioned as a possible successor if Faust had stepped down. 
Carter came to Holy Cross in 1981 and had a 35-19-2 record in five seasons, including 4-6-1 last fall. 
Carter is survived by his wife: Deanna, and two sons, Nick, and Andrew, 12. 

Tho• lih.<t•rr·..r :\otrt· I>amt· otfin·. lot·atl"ll on tht· third flour of l.a~ortunl" 
· ~tudt·nt < t"nlt-r. atn·pt,da"itktl atln·n"in!( from 9 a.m unttl·• p m ..\londa' thflltt!(h I nda\ /bt• lihSt'TI'I'r ~dllll \Jan·, offiu·. IO<all"tl on tht· thtrd floor of ild!(!(dr <ollt·!(<" < l"ntn. atu·pt' t la'"finh trom I 2 .~0 p m unttl .~ p m \Jon da\ thouj~h Fnda\ lkadltnt' tor nn<t·da\ tla'"tktl' ;, .~ p.m. All l"la"tfit·tb 
mu't ht· prt"pattl. t"tthn tn pt·"on or h\ mdtl ( har!(<:" I 0 n·nts p<cr fiv<c <·harac t<c" <cr da\· 
Classifieds 
NOTICES ···················:rw;;;g A~;.................... 
287-4082 
S1D-$360 Weeldy/Up M.;Mng Circut.ral 
Noquotul Sincerely int-ted rulh Mlf-addreaed envelope: Succeu, P08ox 470CDD. Woodltock. ll60098. 
TYPIMQ CAU.CH... D4-11817. 
At1enllon: ltu~ 
0o1area FIWida 
Typt..ServiCII 
'-aph-cMnge 277..1J1 
TYPING -Pick-up & delivery on campua. Wll check apellng. Quality gu-nteedby a proleelional. SUSAN-287-9257 
TYPING T-.,..,_., .-u-, 181­
ltrl, ..,elclaone. Re•ow...,. ...._; plcllup & clllv.-y on -..­IIVIIIIIIIIIe. call cathy Schultz '*-! 5-10 p.m. 217-51:14. 
EXPERT TYPING HIIVICE. CALL IIIIS.COKEII, ~70011. 
LOST/FOUND I 
II you IICddenlllly tOOk my long, black, wool 00111 on Set. ni9ht at the O.C. party on tMrx, could you pi-return It? I am freezing! The tic taca are youra but I really need my I.D. and coat blckl3738 
LOST: WOMAN'S NO RING WITH BLUE STONE AND INSIDE INSCRIPTION: LER 83 CALL JOANN AT 387a 
LOST: MULTICOLORED WOOLEN SCARF OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE MAYBE AT NO/SO DINING HALL. REWARD. CALL MARY AT~ 

LOST ONE PAIII OF PIIUCIIIPTION GLAUU I waa riding In the bacl<aeel ol your blue 2-door at10:30 am on Monday the 27th. You drove me down NO Ave and 1111 me off at the cirde. I left my gJ..-in your baci<­
-·It you find them can you bring them toTex at the South Dining Hall. 
LOST: 18ft cowboy hat with lllcheloll llanclln dlnl,. IMtlf. c.ll Jim 1aeo. 
loat MONEY,BANKING & FINANCIAL MARKETS BOOK In Buai...a building name and addr-are on the ineide cover; calf John at 1024 
LOST: P.;r of Brown Gloves in Gym 4 of the ACC on Tuesday, Jan. 28. Pleue call BOB at 1248 iflound, My handa are freez­ing! 
LOST: A PAIR OF LONG,RED GLOVES IN WASHINGTON HAU. DURING FAT­HER BI..ANTZ'S 10:10 HISTORY CLASS. IF FOUND, CAU. KAY AT 3208. 
LOST:1 BLUE HALF SIZED NOTEBOOK JOURNAL CONTAINED VERY PER­SONAL INFORMATION PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND TO SALLIE 284· 5012 
I am irate! Thlaiathe third time in a­that the honeat people of Notre Dame have helped my belongings diaappear. If you walked off with the red Kangof cap I left in 114 O'Shag, pteeaecalfmeat3564. It-a Chrilllmu preaent and I'm pretty fond of it. Pleue lhow aome decency and reaffirm my t.;th in the Chriatiarity of thio 
lchoof. 
LOST: OUy, thla lan't tunny anymore. My HP-15C Clllcullltor loet In the llath ------laltllllmfaal... Could wlloev• '-It.,.._.rwtum lito Loat & Found on the 2nd fir. LaFortune? 
STOLEN : My black book bag wM taken from the South Dining Hall S during Thul'8day'olunch ( 1/30). I saw the per80il who acted u If he waa refilling the paper in the copying machine, and am aural wiH be able to identify hil picture in the AD­MINISTRATION FILES. SoIf your the guy who thought hia CRIME waa perfect: 
THINK AGAIN and come to your -· Return the bag to itatut poaition near r-. copier or ooon pay the conaequencee. 
LOST: '87 N.D. CLASS RING; IN FRONT OF S. DINING HAU., 1130/86: CALL STEVE AT 3062: REWARDI!I 
FOUND: one blue~ boo~ bag, in the lOUth dining hall at cloeing time, thul'8day night behind the copier. Cal1234-7121 to claim. 
Los:r:·~k··~~d·~~i~·h;;;;;·~;·~i 
at Senior Bar Thul'8day night. II found, pfeeae catl288-5092. 
FOUND: BASKETBAll. TICKETS, 
A.C.C. 29, JAN. 1986. IDENTIFY THEM AND THEY'RE YOURS. CALL DANIEL AT1026. 
FOR RENT 

LAME FOUII-.EDROOII HOME WILL ACCOMMODATE FIVE STUDENTS. COIIPLETELY FUfiNSHED. CALL NANCY HUIIIUMEII234-11114. 
WANTED 

WANTED lnaxpenlive electric typ&Miter In running condition. Call 239-5604 and uk for Betty. Thanka. 
Ride needed to Wabuh College (Crawfordavile, IN) or Purdue Univnty. Weekend of Feb.14-16 Wll lhare COlla. Cindy 2687 
call joann, 3878 
NEED 4 DAYTON GA'S MAR 8 ·1573 
Cheap modem adaptable to IBM. What do you have? Calf 5337 8-12/1-5 or 287· 8881after 5:30. 
Helptla anybody going to Dayton for NO· UO game Wed and coming bac~ Thurs? I need paper brought beck for Fri. clua. HELP!! catt Bob, 2n-5817. 
PERSONALS 
···~·~·:dii~i~~-;~;;;~;-~;;;;~~;·i~~~~d 
of what you fear . 
-Richard Bach, Thelrtclge Acta. F-• 
If she hu loved him, a man wll cerry anything for hia mother -a waterpot or a 
wotld. 

-Calvin Miller. 
Thall..., 
SNAILS? 
OAR HOUH: COLD .EEII & UQUOII. CAIIftY OUT TO :1 A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1 aocK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HOOP HYSTIEJIIA T-SHIIITS Support Logan Center and the baa~etball teem! Long and lhort tllevee Stop by Room 221 Stanford or calf 2089/2078 for delivery 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­plications deadline Ia FebrullrY 3. More into at Center tor Social Concerna. 
"We Can Make You laUQh" on FebullrY 8 it not YOU win $25 
Lovl,. Cllthollc couple-to Mlopt an Infant. If you knOw of·~ who Ia conaldarl.. p!M:I.. a child fOI ~ don, ,_call c:o11ec:t (217) M7-:tr7t .rter7p.m. 
DAVE FLANAGAN FOIIUIIOC 
SMC-ND SUMME!'J PROGRAMS· LONDON. IRELAND, SCOTLAND, PARIS (MAY 21· JUNE 20). PARIS, GERMANY, SWITZ, ROME (JUNE 15­JULY 14). COURSES IN BIO, BUEC. HIST, MUSIC, SOC, ITALIAN. MEETING FEB 17, 7:00 RM 348 MADELEVA. FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 284· 4460 OR 272-3726. 
Altlflc18111rth Control: Iatil.-analh• way? Y•l ......... F-lly Plannl.. Ia SAFE, HEALTHY, EFFECl1VE and IIORALLY ACCIPTAaLE. Everyone lnvlt.d to '-tl ,_ lion. Filii. I 81 
7:30 p.m. HayeH!aaly Aud. ~ and man1ad couplaa call 231-7401 01 2111-21112 to ,.._101 claaa IIWII.. Filii. II on Cllmpua. 
KEENAN IIEVUE TICKET DISTWI•u-
TION Monday, FebrullrY 3 Notre Dame: ACC G.lte 10 at 4 pm no Unes before 1 :30 pm s.int MIUY'I: O'LaughNn Auditorium at 5 pm no UnM before 2:30pm ID'o required. One 10 per tic~et. Two ID'o per per80il 
THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR 
Bonjo~r tout ie monde qui parte lrancaia! Si vous ~rez conver~« en trancaia ou .;der leCercle Francaia avec-elforta. voua pouvez contacter J'un de -ol­ficitn a 4124. Nouo apprecierona vos id-autlli bien que votre .;de. 
ELIZMETH CONWAY ia 20 today Give her a call, have aomething to say In a month & a half, lhe'l sail the ocean blue. She'l be in the •AHAIIAS on a cruiae lhip, too! If you think thio Ia corndog, you're right· Thia wll have Beth guffawing aft night! Love you! Happy 20th! Mary (cd Betht2963) 
IIIAIIK MALONEY· happy 21at birthday­now I have a LEGAL BUYER! You're pre­ciouo! Love you Iota! Your favorite coulln, Ji-no. em oquare 
Mlkey-Bartl wiN get you Feb. 8 
RUGRATS LIVE BEHIND STEAMED WINDOWS 
DEAREST BETHUMS 

Hope your birthday io u beautiful u you 
have made my life. I long to-you rNery 
night. What '1o"? Hugo and lei-, xo-o Mr. Romance PS I've been prllCtlcing. 
Happy 20th Birthday Beth Conway! Hope your day couldn't be any more tun than If you were 21ilove ya, LtSA 
Afthough P81ty Chopp had a wonDREWful time Thura. nile her roommate had a VETTER time 
I'm Mr. Heat-Mi-. I'm Mr. Sun. l.m Mr. GrMn Chriatmu, Mr. 101... Everything I touch 11arta to melt in my dutch, I'm too much!! (Get a new doo, Becl<y G.) 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Houra: 5prn-12am Monday-Thuradlly; 5pm-2am Friday; 3prn-1am S.turday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday. 
Jim Thanka for the underwear lize 32 
Bartl saya. "Come see the choirboy'& corpM at Sr. Bar on Feb. 8" 
DESPIEMTELY NEED A IIIAN WHO WANTS TO HAVE A GIIIEAT VALENTINE'S DAY flf-DI 
D.O. & TONY THE PONY -Buffltlo Bum Buddies 
HAPPY 20th BIRTHOA Y KIMBERLY and HAPPY ANNIVERSARY. IT AIN'T NEVER GONNA END. MANY MORE BIRTHDAYS FOR YOU AND MORE GREAT TIMES FOR US KID. I LOVE YOU AND AS DR. RUTH WOULD SAY,'HERE'S TO GOOD -: WELL NEVERMIND YOU KNOW WHAT MEAN. LOVE YOU BABE& HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 
I~ In tutorl,. • South llend gracle-ecllool 01 hlgh-eclloolatuclent? 
Neighborhood Study Help Program hu many apotaln a number of achooll and centtn. Calf lllartha ...._,at:1864. 
Heck, Notre Deme'a en OK plecel Juot uk Ju~e McCoy, your Crulaa Director. Erin, io he foxy? 0081 he have attitude? Tom, Are your ears cold? We h-dabout your n-h.;rcut! My father rNfly ia a galbage coltec1or. Tim: Good things come to those who w.;t! Thanka for the help on the big hiH. Jelly, who needa a toewarmer? You Yuker king! Ar;e; the wino with the oexy headband. Do you at­waya drink champiiQile out of a bag? Ed 
G. and Frank: Sorry we miNed the lee fis­hing party. Congratulations on ITIIII<lng it through the weekend alive. Hun~. you madman. You have good tute In dr-­ing! il'o a amatl wotld, after all. Ed, don't drink itt Andy, do you remember when Marilla got braces? Pat: You Viking! Let's ma~e the bed vibrate! Thanka to these and everyone else who m~ the Sop­homore Claaa Ski Trip eo much fun! 

The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986-page 9 
Maryland invades ACC tonight; Notre Dame seeks revenge at 7:30 
ByJOHN COYLE season around in a hurry. 6.9 rpg.) and the 6-6jones ( 6.4 ppg., Sports Writer The Terrapins' main weapon is 4.3 rpg. )will have their work cut out senior Len Bias. The 6-8 forward is for them against the bigger and 
Do not be fooled by the I 1-9 considered by many to be one of the stronger frontline ofNotre Dame. record of the University of Maryland best players in the country. The A main Maryland weaknes is a lack basketball team. The Terrapins are a talented senior is averaging 22.9 of bench strength. Freshman guard potentially dangerous team that points a game while pulling down John Johnson has been the bright could present more than a few 6. 7 rebounds a contest. spot, scoring6. 7 ppg. Other reserves problems for Notre Dame tonight at "I predict that that Bias will go in who Driesell will call on are for­
7:30 at the ACC. Of the nine the first three picks in the first wards Terry Long (3.4 ppg.) and Maryland losses, six have 'come in round," Phelps says of Bias. Tony Massenburg ( 3.4 ppg. ). the extremely competilive Atlantic "That's what you are playing against. Coast Conference, including a one He's a man playing in a boy's game. The Irish, on the other hand are point loss to highly-rated Georgia "He's just a great player. "He does hoping to avenge last year's loss at Tech. Irish head coach Digger so many good things with the ball, College Park. A snowstorm which Phelps is well aware of the and he's so strong physically. You changed their travel plans was not capabilities of the Terrapins. are seeing one of the premiere draft the only problem Notre Dame had 
"'lbcy are a very talented basket­picks come in here on Monday on its visit to Maryland. The Irish suf­hall team. Their record in their con­night." fered from severe offensive anemia ference is very deceiving. The fact in the first half, scoring only that they arc 1-6 in their conference Guard Keith Gatlin is the. quarter­eighteen points on 8-of-38 shooting doesn't mean a thing. They are a back ofthe Terrapins. The 6-5 junior from the field. Notre Dame was team that can explode," says Phelps. has 108 assists for the season, while never able to get closer than six 
Maryland, coached by Lefty scoring 9.1 ppg. At the other guard points in the second half, as Driesell, will be looking to rebound spot is senior Jeff Baxter, who Maryland won easily 77-65. after losing Saturday, 64-62, to last averages 9.2 ppg. "They drilled us last year at Col­year's NCAA champion, Villanova. A Completing the front line for lege Park," recalls Phelps. "We stunk victory against Notre Dame in the Maryland are sophomore center last year at College Park. We should ACC, where they have not won in Derrick Lewis and senior forward have stayed in Toledo before we their last four visits, could turn their Tom jones. The 6-7 Lewis (8.I ppg., took the bus," said Phelps. 
that he Is not the fastest of players, the end of his freshman campaign he says the change in tempo was no and started every game during his
Dolan 
problem. sophomore season. After mising the continuedfrom page /2 "It was no big adjustment," com­first three games oflast year's season 
mented Dolan. "Now the big men due to an injury, Dolan again was a 20-point game against last year, Dolan and his teammates get the rebounds and start the break. resumed his starting role. But when Maryland in his freshman had to switch from the slower half­Then we're trailing for the rebound Donald Royal began to emerge, season. Organizers of the
Irish 
court game to the quicker transition baskets." Dolan lost his startingposition to the I986 U.S. Olympic Festival an­attack. While Dolan freely admits Dolan was an Irish starter since quicker Royal. Again, the transition continuedfrom page I 2 nounced late last week that Phelps, has proved to be no problem. along with South Carolina's BillHDW WOULD YDU LIKE------.. This season, Dolan is one of the of a one-and-one with I :07 left, but Foster, Boston College's Gary Wil­first men off the bench and is averag­Hicks came up to knock the ball out liams, and BYU's Ladell Anderson ing just over 20 minutes of playing of Tom Copa's hands and maintain will coach one of the four teams at 
time a contest. In addition, he is possession for Notre Dame. Rivers the festival in Houston July 25-Aug. averaging 4.9 points and 5.2 then hit one of two free throws after 3. ' rebounds a contest. While his a foul by Copa to put the Irish up 70­
lsza.aa?l 
scoring is down from his career 6. I 68. average, his rebounding average is The Warriors came downcourt S.turdlly'a Aaaulta 

............,.,.

th•.,.....,.,Aetlvftfa...rfl'• ...wst•ra: 
Notre Dame 72, .._qu.tta70 (on

just behind his career 5.7 mark. Still with a chance to tie, but Pops Sims 
Mllrquette (70)

it is things that don't show up in the missed a I2-footer and then fouled statistics that make Dolan such an in­Kempton. The 6-9 redhead then
Tieket Stub\_and~ 
M FG-A FT·A A F P 

tegral part of the Irish squad. canned a pair offree throws with six 
Boone 35 3-5 2-3958 Saturday's game showcased the seconds left to put the game on ice. Trotter 39 3-8 1-2 6 5 7 Downing 33 8-12 3-7 2 4 19 Moore 43 7-15 1-2 2 1 15 
\ TheCell•r 
whole Dolan repertoire. He set "I thought we got a good shot 
bone-crunching picks. He went to from Sims at the end, although I 
Johnson 38 6-10 1-1 3 2 13 Entrla muat be In Ink on 81fa x 11 paper. 
the tloor for loose balls. In two think Walter (Downing) was open Sims 17 1-5 2-2 2 1 4 Submit them to theTicket Stub (buement of Lafortune) 
straight trips down the court in the on the left," said dejected Warrior Davis 2 o-o o-o o o o bv February 7th. Include your name, addraa, and telephone number. 
first half Dolan was ahead ofthe pack head coach Rick Majerus afterwards. Foley 30-00.0010 Reeder 1 o-o o-oooo
for lay ups from Rivers' assists. He "I guess I would have liked to have 
Copa 14 2-7 D-2 3 5 4

started breaks and pulled down seen Walter take the shot, but by 225 30-62 1()-111 27 24 70 boards. And of cours~ l:w tipped in that point in the game we had a for­FG Pet. .484. FT Pet. -.526. Team the loose ball that sent the game into ward playing at guard and a guy who 
rebounds-2. Turnovers -12. Aasiats -18 (Trotter 7). Technical&-none.

overtime. had come off the bench cold 30 "Jimmy works hard hard every seconds ago. We did the best we 
Non Deme (72)

day in practice," said four-year could." 
M FG-A FT·A A F P teammate Tim Kempton. "He plays Majerus' personnel problems oc­Royal 32 2-3 8-9 8 3 12 
with a lot of intensity. He played a curred because Trotter, Boone and Barlow 33 2-9 9-10 8 5 13 Kempton 24 o-5 s-s 4 2 5
great game, definitely the best I've Copa all fouled out in overtime, as 
Rivers 41 4-13 1-2 1 3 9

played with him in four years." did Barlow for the Irish. 
Stevenson 14 2-2 2-2 2 0 6 Quiet both on and off the court, IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame was Hicks 21 ().4 1-2 4 0 1 
Dolan's play as "the lunchpail outscored by eight field goals but hit Connor 13 1-2 o-o 2 1 2 Price 10 1-1 o-o 1 3 2
player" speaks for itself. on 28-of-33 shots from the charity 
Dolan 37 1D-11 2·2 9 2 22

"I just do whatever it takes to get stripe to come out on top. The Irish 
225 22·50 28-33 38 111 72 the job done.". are connecting from the line at a FG Pet. .440. FT Pet. -.848. Team .764 clip as a team, with Barlow rebounds-1. Turnovers-19. Assists-12 (Rivers 5). Technical&-none.
leading the way with a .905

HELP FIGHT Halftime-Notre Dame 41, Marquette 31. 
percentage ( 48-of-53 ). Barlow hit 9­
Regulation-Notre Dame 60, Marquette 60. 

BIRTH DEFECTS 
of-10 from the line Satur-Officials-Steve Usecheck, Jim Mcleod (both day. Dolan's previous best WAC), A-11,345 (c). 
Cabin Fever??? 
Get out of the house (or office) and spend a day with M. SCOTT PECK, M.D. 
author or 
__JHE~~ 
REGISTRATION:
Wednesday, February 2fl 
'25 by February 18 
8a.m.-4 p.m. 
Payable and mailed to

POADI.E$
O'uughlln Auditorium 
Famoly and Children's Center
Saint Mary'a College 
1411 Lincoln Way West

TMVELED 
Moshaw-'"1. IN 46~44 "30 Itthe door Prescnttng The new psychology o~ 
• Love e Tritdtlonnal Values e Spor·~ual Growth 
Sponsored by Family & Children's Center 





The Observer Monday, February 3, 1986 ·page 10 
Men's track wins MCC meet title; Middle distances spark Irish to win 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI Wells, junior Alvin Miller and senior sophomore Paul Duvair, which won 
Sports Writer MiltJackson. in 8:04 minutes. Duvair came up 
"They all have had extensive high­with an exceptional second leg of 
The Notre Dame men's track team school track experience and just en­1:56.9. 
got fine performances from both joy track as a way of attaining that "Tyler placed second in 4:12 with 
new members and seasoned extra step," said Plane. a very good race, but Jacob Bungei 
veterans at the Midwestern City of Oral Roberts just had a great race 
Conference Championships held Brown, who is a tenth ofa second to win in 4:08 (setting a meet 
Saturday at the ACC, as the Irish away from qualifying for the NCAA's record,)" said Plane. 
scored 221 points to outdistance in the 60-yard dash with last week's McNelis led from the gun in the 
second-place Oral Roberts' 85. 6.32 performance, won that event in 880-yard run to place first in 
Once again, the Irish middle­6.36 seconds. Wells finished second, 1:57.14, while freshman David 
distance crew provided the base of qualifying for the IC4A's with a 6.44 Warth followed his lead closely to 
of the victory. Junior Robert Nobles effort. Senior Phil Gilmore placed place second in 1:57.44. 
set a meet record while qualifying third in 6.57 while returning from "Warth ran really well and has the 
for the IC4A's in the 600-yard run injury. potential to make the IC4A's," said 
with an excellent first-place time of Miller cruised· to victory in the Plane. 
1:10.84. Junior Jeff Van Wie placed 300-yard run with a time of 32.73. first in the 1000-yard run, also with a The Irish mile relay of freshmen In the three-mile run. "(junior) meet-record and IC4A-qualifying James McGuire, Brown, Miller, and Mike Collins had his best track race time of 2:12.40. Jackson beat Loyola by four seconds since he has been at Notre Dame," 
"Relative to the small size of our to win in 3:28.80. according to Plane. Collins, coming indoor track, those were very good "(Senior) Mike Brennan had an off cross-country injury problems, times;" said Notre Dame head coach extremely fine race in the 60-yard placed second with 14:26.63, as Kim Joe Plane. "(Senior) Jim Tyler, high hurdles, winning in 7.87," said Berghall of Oral Roberts edged him (senior)John McNelis, VanWie, and Piane. "This was the first time that he out at the finish in 14:26.21. Senior Nobles all have good chances of broke 8.00 flat, and he did it twice." Tom Warth placed third in 14:31.33. qualifying for the NCAA meet in­Pearcy won the 400-yard run in In the jumping events, sop­dividually or as a two-mile relay. 50.04, while McGuire finished homore Rick Muench placed second Their relay is off the NCAA mark by fourth with a time of 51.94. in the high jump at 6-8, third in the only two seconds." long jump at 21-9 1/2 and fourth in 
The football team has contributed Notre Dame ran a different two· the triple jump at 44-2. Junior Joel Giant's quarterback Phil Simms is sacked here in a game duringfour talented additions to the Irish mile relay team, consisting of fresh­Autry won the long jump at 22-5 and 
the regular season. Simms threw three touchdowns in yesterday's 
sprinting corps in the likes of sop­men Ken Fitzpatrick, Shane placed third in the triple jump at 44­
Pro Bowl to lead the NFC to a 28-24 win over the AFC Details ap­
homores Tim Brown and Brandy O'Flaherty, Kirby Kinghorn, and 6. 
pear in Sports Briefs on page eight. 
The Irish ended the meet with a convincing 17-10 win.
Fencing Irish women ease past Evansville
For the Irish women, the day
continuedfrom page 12 
followed much the same script as The two teams exchanged bouts the men. After beating Tri-State ( 13-Special to lbe Observer 
through the second half to cut the half by scoring 14 of her 18 points.early, as neither team commanded 3), Eastern Michigan ( 15-1 ), Irish lead to 12 points at 54-42, but "Our defensive intensity was the an early lead. But when sophomore Michigan-Dearborn ( 15-1 ), and EVANSVILLE, IN. -The Notre 
were not able to get any closer. key to the game," said Notre Dame standout Yehuda Kovacs pulled offa Detroit ( 13-3), Wayne State stood Dame women's basketball team won Notre Dame hit 35 shots from the head coach Mary DiStanislao. "We convincing 5-2 upset in the foil com­formidably in the way to an un­its 16th consecutive North Star Con­field and connected on just six at­
also got excellent inside play from petition over reigning national defeated afternoon. Early in the ference game yesterday by scoring a tempts from the foul line to account Sandy and Heidi. Lynn Ebben had a champion Stephan Chauvel, the match, things looked grim for the convincing 76-55 win over for its points. Evansville had just 17 good game from the outside. Irish seemed to be convincing them­Irish as sophomore standout Molly Evansville. field goals, but converted 21 free "Evansville is a scrappy team, but selves that Wayne State wasn't invin­Sullivan lost the opening bout, and The win pushed Notre Dame's throws. 
we showed a lot of poise by playing

cible. key bouts slipped away to the Tar­record to 12-6, 5-0 in conference The Irish had four players in well in their home gym.""That was definitely a key bout in tars. But the Irish battled back into play. 
double figures. Senior forward Evansville (4-13, 1-3) was led in the meet," said DeCicco. "Kovacs what was to become a seesaw affair The Irish led 37-23 at the half and Trena Keys led the way with 18 the scoring department by sop­not only beat the national champion, until the end, going on to win the went on an 11-2 spurt in the opening points, while Ebben added 17, Bot­homore center Karla Hughes with 
he destroyed him. He had control of meet by a 9-7 score. It was only the minutes of the second half to take a ham 16 and freshman forward Heidi 13 points and junior forward the bout from the first point until the second time in the women's team's 23-point lead, 48-25. Senior guard Bunek 12. Sophomore guard Mary 
Tammy Simmons with 11 points.

last. He gave a lift to the other fen­history that they managed to defeat Lynn Ebben scored seven of those Gavin chipped in with eight points. 
The Irish take on Dayton at the cers." Wayne State. points, and sophomore center Sandy In the second half, Ebben scored 
ACC Wednesday night at 7:30, and 

Shortly thereafter, junior epeeist "I didn't expect the women to 
Botham added the other four points 11 of her 17 points, Botham netted Keys will have. a chance to become John Haugh gave a similar lift to the beat Wayne State," said DeCicco. in that stretch. 12 of her 16, and Bunek eight of her Notre Dame's all-time leading

Irish as he defeated Wayne State's Ulf "They maintained their cool after Lernesjo, a freshman specialist from losing some early bouts. I was afraid Sweden, 5-3. that the other girls would fold up 
The match of the day between their tents and give up after seeing Notre Dame's Charles Higgs· Molly lose. It is a bit of a shock be­Coulthard and Wayne State's cause she's so good that everybody 
Chauvel, foil champions of the last expects her to win whenever she two years, was a tense and quick steps out on the strip." bout that ended officially as a 5-4 victory for Chauvel, although a disputed final point left much in doubt. It turned out, howevever, that the combination of Kovacs, Higgs-Coulthard, and senior Mike VanderVelden fueled the Irish to a 7-2 domination in the foil. 
"Our foil is really shapingup," said DeCicco. "I knew before the season started that foil was going to be our best weapon. I don't know any other team that has a foil team that can match up, and I'm not saying that to be boastful but as a fact." 
The Irish victory was so complete that they also took the epee and the sabre competitions by 5-4 margins. 
"lf you look at the other side of this, we lost two sabre bouts that we should have taken," DeCico said. "One, in my opinion, because it was stolen. lf you add some of those 
The Lady Aces made a run midway 12. Keys paced the attack in the first scorer. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~ 
SOCIETYS 


***«;£***********************1['***
: .," Spring Film Series .," ~ *~m ~ * 
* 
Ball of Fire Bicycle Thief *Jf.* Bod Qirl n1ghtclub snger Barbaro One of the most 1nfluent101 f1lms 1n * ~ Stonwyck teaches earnest c1nemo h1story. Vittono De S1ca·s :* English professor Gory Cooper mosterpece uses mom-actors * * slang. -songs and donc1ng wh1le and locot1on shootng to tell the *

* 
learning her own lesson 1n love story of o father and son's des-* ~ 1n one of Howard Honks" finest perote search for h1s stolen * 

* 
screwball comed1es b1cycle. the bas1s of his livl1hood :* Mon. 7:00p.m. Mon. 9:00p.m. * 


~ Le Plalsir The Last Metro ~ 
* Max Ophul"s tronslol1on to the Ag01nst the background of the lf­* NOZI OCCUpoiiOn Of WWII. * 
Jf. screen of three short stones by Cothenne Deneuve ploys ** Guy De Moupossont 1s un1f1ed by 0 * lt-the theme of pleasure. The f1rst French theater manager and * * story contrasts pleasure and old leading lady who finds herself * * age. the second pleasure and drown to her leading man * : punty. the th1rd pleasure and (Gerold Depord1eu) desple her : lt-marriage. Peter Ust1nov narrates love for her Jewish husband 1n * * in droll boice as de Moupossont. hiding In the theater cellar. * 
: Tues 7:30p.m. Frl 7:30& 9:30p.m. : 
: All films ore shown in the Annenberg Aud1tonum in the Snite ~* The Lot1n American Film Senes begins next week * ********************************** * 



-----~--------------~ 
.•: J : 


LOOK Ar ,..,W HUe€ THaSE THINOIS AfiEf \oiERE 011> 
nEY eer &~.CR GIANT Plu.AAS OF STON!!? 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Get lost! 6 Household 
12 "...In -of 
clouds" 13 Salem's state 14 Renowned 15 Flowers 17 Flower 19 Bull 20 Sound of 
disapproval 23 Fr. director 
Clair 24 Fr. painter 27 Confront 26 Altar promise 29 Very loving 
one 30 Working people 31 Fr. Income 32 Mediterranean 
seaport 33 Flower 36 Flowers 37 Praises 36 Denoted 39 B.U.s ~ 1988 Tribuna Mad•• Services, Inc. 2/3/86 
Friday's Solution 
S T EIMliii!R A F F IC PAS 
MAXII ROMEO ARIL UMPS EMBER DODO 
GER·~J..AL.BUDGET 
..EVE~D I SO~ 
CASINO IDE AGA R·I"p EIN ·t~~
~~ID SEIRAI THEN ~J!_,¥_ A S Tl! R 0 S E 
w. 
MER GROUSE A I NAN L I D S .. 
R A N I S E T U P B A B A 
B. A·~··· "I'..
A IDS EARNS AWAY 
E L S E 
S U E T A S T A 
iiiii 
2/3/86  
42 Trued  50 Mimic  
43 Lariats  52 Ques. opposite  
45 Panorama  53 Before too  
46 Facsimile  long  
of sorts  54 Neighbor  
48 Snag  oflsr.  

© 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 
Kevin Walsh 


Campus 

•3:30 
P.M. -Minicourse, Computing Center Minicourse: Overview and Tour, Room 115 Computing Center 

•LECTURE 
-Jesus Salvador Trevino, director of"Yo Soy," Galvin We Sciences Auditorium, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute and Saint Mary's Department ofForeign Languages 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, S.O.A.P., Students on Al­cohol Problems, Room 316 Student Health Center, Sponsored by Psychological Services 

•4:15 
P.M. -Lecture, "Three Dead Ends of Literary Criticism: A History of National Literature, Marxist Literary History, and Struc­turalist Theory," Prof. Dr. Wolfram Kromer, University of Innsbruck, Room 100-104 Center for Continuing Education, Sponsored by Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages 

•4:30 
P.M. -Mathematical Colloquium, "Formal Groups and Jacobians," Prof. Mar­garet Freije, Brown University, Room 226 Computer Center and Math Building 

•4:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "The Main Rhodopsin Gene of Drosophila," Dr. Joseph R. O'Tousa, Notre Dame, Room 262 Stepan Chemistry Hall, Sponsored by The College ofScience 

•5:30 
P.M. -Support Group, ACAP-ALANON (Adult Children of Alcoholic Parents), Room 316 Student Health Center, Sponsored by Psychological Services 

•7:00 
& 9:30 P.M. -Movie, "The Killing 


TV Tonight 
8:00P.M.  16  TV's Bloopers &jokes  
22  Katc&Allie  
28  Hardcastle & McCormick  
34  Wonderworks: "Hockey Night"  
8:30P.M.  22  Newhart  

9:00P.M.  16  NBC  Monday  Night  Movie:  28  N~tch28  
"Peter the Great"  34  Body Electric  
22  CBS Special Movie: "Sins"  46  Pra.lae the Lord  
28  ABC Monday Night Movie: "The  11:30P.M.  16  Tonlflht Show  
Gladiator"  22  Remington Steele  CBS  Late  
34  American  Playhouse:  Movie: "Heartaches"  
"Valentine's Revenge"  28  ABC News Niflhtline  
9:30P.M.  46  Calvary Temple  34  Star Trek  

"Oo, Sylvlal You've got to see thlsl ... Ginger's bringing Bobby home, and even though her jaws can crush soup bones, Bobby only gets a few nicks and scratches." 
Fields," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns, Sl.50 
•7:00 
P.M. -Monday Night FUm Series I, "Ball of Fire," Anncnbcrg Auditorium 

•7:00 
P.M. -Movie, "Yo Soy," Sponsored by Saint Mary's Dept. of Foreign Languages, Car­roll Hall, Saint Mary's 

•7:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "An Introduction to Natural Family Planning." Mr. and Mrs. Tim Fulnccy of South Bend, Hayes-Healy Auditorium, Sponsored by the Natural Family Planning Program ofSt.Joseph County 

•7:30 
P.M. -Men's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Maryland, ACC Arena o9:00J>.M. -Monday Night FUm Series 0, "Bicycle Thief," Annenbcrg Auditorium, 


Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Oven Braised Short Ribs Chicken Pot Pic Broccoli-Cheese-Rice Casserole Spcidano Romano 
Saint Mary's Roast Beef Turkey Pot Pic Ratatouille Crepes Grilled Liver & Onions 

10:00P.M.  34  From M08Cow to Chautauqua  
46  Children of the Brokenhearted  
ll:OOP.M.  16  N~Center16  
22  Eyewitness News  

40 Pixie 41 EakJp 44 Experts 45 Pl'8tentlous 
residence 46 Natalleor Nat 47 Vintage star 
Erwtn 
48 Relatives 49 Flowering 
plant 51 Flowet11 55 Focus 56 Public 
official 57 Nine 58 More vapid 59 Woodwinds 
DOWN 1 Animal hunt 2 Demented 3 Sharp cheese 4 White poplar 5 Irani of 
yore 6 Bossy sound? 7 Slipup 
All Rights Reserved 
8 Drink of the gods 9 Moslem 
officials 10 Enter 11 Remnant 16 RMistlng 
change 18 Handsome youtl1 21 Move quickly 22 Ancient Irish 
soldiers 25 Comic Kett 26 Horse command 27 Flaw 29 Slight hollows 
30 Loco 
31 Play parts 32 Diadems 33 Lugosland 
Bartok 34 Precise 35 Surrendered 36 Disguise 38-de mer 40 Epl 41 Stolid 

MNI~~~ lltl tJf 1/Jl /JIIMSHW ff(r)M I«Jf?(.Jl Rf'I1JN170N. / Pf{!ta... !1/C/&t.. .IICMj()N... et1ZW .DIN... Me ... 
SwePr ovr THC ~ liKe 1115CAI?Pel? 
l!NGffK!e/ 
\ "'"~ 
Q~ 
"' 
~ 

IT'5 5Ff(!NG5!C£N'5 
FAllT, tJf COUKS£•.1111711 
71105£ 1/WfU. t£VI'5 liNt? 
~K Jllf(TS•.7HIITMI/CHO (J()Y COIJU7 1/5€ 50,+1£ 6'rc51111PoMJl 

··if we can't, ...we'II giv::::::::::·::mt:It:l 
·you $25,' 
(After the game/) ) Bring this slip of paper with you sign-ups and tickets $2.00 at the 'ilcketstub 
Washington Hall---~~rlll...•rt•-... ------Tname,---------­.... J 
Monday, February 3, 1986 -page 12 
Sgorts 
Irish down Warriors in heart-stopper, 74-72 
ByLARRY BURKE eight points and go on to lead by as AssistantSports Editor many as 11 in the first half. But Notre Dame left the offense in 
Notre Dame head coach Digger the lockerroom at halftime. The Phelps slumped into his chair in Irish hit on just 36 percent (9-of-25) front of a group of writers when it of their shots from the field in the was all over. second half, scoring just 19 points. 
"Is it still Saturday?" he wondered Notre Dame still led by 1 0 points at 
aloud, moments after watching his 55-45 with 7:55 left in regulation Irish pull out a heart-stopping 72-70 but suffered through a five-minute overtime win over Marquette on the scoring drought during which Mar­strength of a career-high 22 points quette climbed back to within one from seniorJim Dolan. point at 55-54. 
"This was the longest game -it The Irish got a free throw from seemed like it lasted about a week," Barlow and a 1 0-footer from Rivers said Phelps, whose Irish went to 14-to take a 58-54 lead with 2:19left in 
3 with the win. "It was really like the second half. But Rivers lost the four different games. Marquette ball in the lane, and Tim Kempton played very well early, then we had a · missed shot in the paint while
a spurt to take the lead Then Mar­Johnson and Kerry Trotter hit 15­quette came back and cut our lead, footers to forge a 58-58 tie with 52 
then we built it back up again. Mar­seconds left. 
quette took the lead at the end, and Marquette's Walter Downing we got the tip-in to send it into followed a Benny Moore miss by hit­overtime. And then the overtime ting a six-footer in the lane to put the was like two different games." Warriors up 60-58 with 20 seconds 
left. 

fortunately for Phelps, his team The Irish still had plenty oftime to came out on top in the final "game" tie the game, but disaster struck although none ofit would have been when Rivers' pass for Barlow in the possible were it not for the contribu­left corner wound up in the hands of tions of Dolan, the latest participant Marquette's David Boone. Barlow in Notre Dame's dial-a-hero system. quickly fouled Boone to set up a The 6-8 forward hit on 1 0-of-1 1 one-and-one situation and with only shots from the field and pulled down 11 seconds remaining, all the War­nine rebounds. It was his 12 points riors needed was one free throw to
Irish forwardjim Dolan ( 42) dives after a loose points to lead the Irish. Larry Burke has game 
that helped the Irish build a 1 0-point put Notre Dame on the ropes.
ball in Notre Dame's 74-72 over Marquette on details in his story at right, and Dennis Corrigan 
halftime lead, and it was his tip-in of But they couldn't get it. Boone's
Saturday, as the Warriors Kerry Trotter (32) and features Dolan's play in his story below. 
a Ken Barlow miss as time expired in first attempt rolled off the rim and
Walter Downing (13) look on. Dolan scored 22 
the second half that sent the game into the hands of Donald Royal, who into overtime and saved Notre quickly got the ball to Rivers. Dame from suffering its fourth "The plan was for me to take it as 
Dolan keys victory with 22 points, 
defeat of the season. far as possible, and to shoot if 1 Dolan's heroics were just what could," Rivers explained. "But I got the Irish needed on a day when star cut off in front of the foul line so I
fulfills 'blue-collar' role for Irish 
guard David Rivers was struggling passed off to Sean Connor in the 
through a 4-of-13 shooting day, and right corner." By DENNIS CORRIGAN percentage on 1 0-of-11 shooting rebounds and play defense," Dolan senior forward Ken Barlow was hit­Connor's baseline shot missed, as Sports Writer were all career highs for the 6-8 said of his role. "I just go out there ting on just 2-of-9 shots from the did Barlow's follow from close 
senior from Point Pleasant, N.J.. and do what I'm supposed to do." field. range. But with one tick left on the 
NBC-TV announcer Al McGuire "(Dolan) just played his best Dolan is perhaps Notre Dame's "I think it was just an off day for clock Dolan grabbed the ball and once described Irish forward Jim game at Notre Dame," Irish head most versatile player. He's a strong me," Rivers said. "I just wasn't able knocked it through. Dolan as "the blue-collar worker, coach Digger Phelps said afterwards. rebounder, a defensive stalwart and to really get into the game of­"Sean took the shot from the the lunchpail player," the type of "His confidence is really coming up a sure ballhandler. It was because of fensively. But this game was a good corner," explained Dolan, "so the player who does the dirty work. He's each game in the way he's scored, his ballhandling ability that Dolan example ofwhat I've been saying all plan was for the three of us (Dolan, the player who sets picks, goes to rebounded and played defense. Jim saw duty at the point guard position along. Just because David Rivers has Barlow and Royal ) to form a triangle the floor for loose balls and bangs has really matured into a complete in his sophomore year when the a bad game doesn't mean it's all over around the basket and try to get the under the boards. His work usually player for us." Irish had lost their regulars at that for this team. We have plenty ofguys rebound. We tried to fill the spots on gets little notice in the box score or Yesterday was not the first time slot due to academic ineligibilty and that can pick up the slack. And the the weakside and I was able to get write up-that is until Saturday. that Dolan had played the hero injury. way Jim Dolan played today is a the rebound and knock it in." 
Saturday Dolan scored 22 points, against Marquette. In his freshman ''They put me where they thought good example of that." There were plenty more anxious including a tip in with one second year, Dolan hit the game-tying as they needed me," Dolan said of the The Warriors, now 12-7, held moments in the overtime, and Notre left in regulation to send the game well as game-winning shot in Notre position change. "The big guys Rivers pretty much in check with a Dame needed an outstanding into overtime, to lead the Irish to a Dame's 59-57 victory. Yet Dolan's wouldn't come and guard me so it box-and-one: defense that featured defensive play from Scott Hicks to 72-70 victory over Marquette. He role is seldom the hero's. Instead, opened a lot up. It doesn't matter some tight play from guard Kevin hold off Marquette in the final pulled down a team-high nine Dolan is the complete team player, what position I play." Johnson. But even without great minutes. rebounds as well as his usual "blue­doing whatever it takes to earn the With the arrival of David Rivers production from Rivers, the Irish Kempton missed the second shot collar" work. His 22 points, 10 field win. were able to overcome some early­
see DOLAN, page 9 see IRISH, page 9 
goals, and his .909 field-goal "My job is to go out there, get game blahs that put them behind by 
Men's, women's fencing down Wayne St., others in meet 
By TERRY LYNCH nosed them out by one touch in the Sports Writer N.C.A.A. Championships last year, and earlier in the day it seemed like 
For Irish fencing fans, yesterday the preparation had been almost too afternoon at the ACC was just about thorough. all you could ask for. "I felt sorry for the teams that 
In an unprecedented occurence came here and didn't match up," ex­in Notre Dame fencing history, both plained DeCicco. "The kids rolled the men's and women's teams came over the other teams, and it got so out on top against perennial power bad that I wanted to grab a chair and Wayne State. The Irish were unstop­sit in the corner, afraid that the other pable as they rolled over every coaches would think I was trying to single opponent that walked out on rub it in. But we used every senior the stripe, ending the day's events we had today, and every man on the undefeated. The men, now at 12-0 sabre team. They prepared them­on the season, also stretched their selves for a great weekend of fen­current win streak to 39 meets, cing, and today they gave it to us." second on the all-time win list for The Irish took out some of this the Irish. pent-up preparedness first on Tri­
"We fenced out of our minds State, defeating them handily by a today," commented Head Coach 23-4 tally. It didn't get any better for Mike DeCicco after the final meet any of the other opponents, as Eas­with Wayne State. "This week I tern Michigan, Michigan-Dearborn could sense the tension In practice -and Detroit fell by scoresof24-3, 21­like we were going to play in the 6 and 23-4. But when the national Super Bowl -when we were only champions were introduced, the going to fence Wayne State." scene changed dramatically. 
Indeed, the Irish needed no prod­
competition on Sunday. The Irish fencing teams
see FENCING, ,age 10
ding to get ready for the' team that 


The Obocrver/ SteveJqicr 

wracked up victories against five teams in the com­petition. Terry Lynch bas the details at left. 

