Arts and Letters -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 74 WEDNESDAY,JANUARY 22, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Car bombing in Lebanon kills 22, injures 102 
A!180Ciated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -A car packed with explosives, gasoline and oxygen bottles blew up in a huge ball of flame and shrapnel yesterday on a busy street of Christian east lkirut. killing at least 22 people and wounding 102. 
It went otT .30 yards from an office of President Amin Gemayel's politi­cal party, but authorities would not say whether that was the target. The only damage at the Phalange Party office was shattered windows. 
A dozen passing motorists were killed in their cars by the fireball that engulfed the street. Witnesses said scores of pedestrians and shoppers were cut down by shrapnel or turned into human torches by blazing gasoline that sprayed over a 'Hl-yard radius. 
Hlood·spattered Red Cross squads clawed through the smoldering wreckage ofeight buildings, under a dark cloud of smoke and ashes that hung over the scene. Officials said they feared the death toll would climb. 
The bombing followed a week of fighting between Gemaycl loyalists and Syrlan-backed Christian and Moslem rivals In which more than 400 people have been killed and 800 woundt"d. 

Those battles, including a day­long showdown Jan. 1') in which Gemayel crushed his main Christian opponent, scuttled a Syrian­sponsored peace agreement signed Dec. 28 in Damascus by leaders of the largest Moslem and Christian militias. 
The Maronite Catholic president opposes the agrc:ement, which would give Moslems more power at 
see BOMBING, page 3 

Keenan Revue ticket distribution, parietals discussed at HPC meeting 

By ALEX PELTZER 
Copy Editor 
The argument over who should get Keenan Revue tickets reached the Hall Presidents' Council last night as Chris Cooke of the Keenan Revue Program Committee gave a report at the HPC meeting. 
Cooke told the council about the opporwnity to buy advertisements in the revue program, saying that it was a way to help Keenan cut the cost of the program. 
He also told the council about the revue committee's past policy of of­fering tickets to presidents of halls who buy advertisements In the program. He explained that In the past, while all hall presidents had received some tickets, those presi­dents whose halls bought advertis­Ing in the program received extra tickets. He did not say what the com­mittee's policy would be this year. 
"We don't know if it's fair for hall presidents to get tickets because their dorm bought an ad," said Cooke. 
Carie Hand, president of Pasquerilla East, said she did not think it is "fair for it (ticket distribu­tion) to be contigent on whether or not we buy an ad in the program." She said Keenan should make the decision to give or not to give tickets to presidents whether they buy space or not. 
Cooke said the revue committee will be discussing the policy over the next few days. 
Another issue brought up at the meeting was parietals during finals week. Mimi Soule, president of Lewis Hall, said she knew of a group ofstudents who were upset with the rule that shortened visitation hours on Friday and Saturday nights before finals week. 
She said the administration jus­tified this rule by saying that Friday and Saturday should be study days. She said she was disappointed, however, to find classrooms closed early on Friday and Saturday nights. 
"Assuming that Friday and Satur­day were supposed to be study nights, then the classrooms should be open," said Soule. "There's a lot of inconsistency here." 
She also pointed out that LaFortune closed early on those nights and then permanently for the rest of the week. 
"Not everybody can study at the library, even ifthey wanted to," said Soule. 
She said the HPC should voice its disappointment about the policy so similar inconsistencies will not recur. HPC Chairman Kevin Howard said he will draft a letter to Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson about the matter. 
Student Body Vice President Duane Lawrence reported on the student government's parietals sur­vey. He said Bruce Loman, student government judicial council mem­ber, has recently sent out 150 ques· tionnaires to alumni, all ofwhom are former student leaders. 
Surgeon general attacks Living Will during ND lecture 
By MARK PANKOWSKI "I think we all lose when the AssistantNews Editor medical profession ceases to be a caring profession dedicated to the The "living Will" threatens tradi­saving of all those lives that should tional medical ethics and the rights be saved," said Koop at a press con­ofpatients, according to the surgeon ference prior to his lecture on legal general, who spoke yesterday at the developments concerning eut­
Notre Dame Law School. hanasia. 
"... The Living Will, in most cases, Koop, speaking to approximately 
goes in only one direction, the direc­100 people, said euthanasia is linked 
tion of withholding treatment," Dr. to the attitude that an individual's 
C. Everett Koop said. life is not worth living, a belief that 
According to the 69-year-old grew prior to the Holocaust in Nazi 
pediatric surgeon, most forms of the Germany. 
living Will are quite simple. Citing the work of his deceased 

Basically, he said, these "wills" al­friend Dr. Leo Alexander, a professor low competent. persons to sign a of psychiatric medicine who served statement directing their physician as an expert in the Nuremberg trials, to withhold treatment from them if Koop said this beliefbegan with Ger­it only prolongs the dying process. man doctors' attitude toward the 
The Living Will is thus linked to chronically sick and gradually was euthanasia, which he defined as the enlarged to include all non­"deliberate killing, whether by act Germans. or omission, of oneself or another Discussing the legal develop­out of motives of compassion; the ments surrounding euthanasia, desire to save another from suffer­Koop criticized the living WIU on ing, or to promote the dignity ofthe several fronts. suffering person." Besides promoting the withhold­
Fueled by the growing elderly ing of treatment to patients, he said, population and society's need to the Living Will legally binding on control rising health costs, the doctors. Living Will likely will lead to A physician must comply with the "further erosion in the traditional et­living Will in most cases or face hic of 'Primum Non Nocere -First Do Not Harm,' " said Koop. 
see SURGEON, page 4 
Court's abortion ruling to be observed today 

A!180CJated Press "I think by being silent he 
(Reagan) is supporting their tac­
WASHINGTON-While abortion tics,'' she added at a news con­
opponents girded to protest the ference. 

Supreme Court's decision legalizing Reagan, for the second year in a 
a woman's right of free choice, sup­row, planned to speak via telephone 
porters asked President Reagan to hookup to the marchers as they gat­
help end anti-abortion violence. hered on the Ellipse south of the 
Thousands planned to march White House. Aides said he would today from the White House to the meet later with leaders of the anti­steps ofthe Supreme Court and then abortion movement. deliver symbolic red roses to mem­Reagan declared last Sunday to be bers ofCongress. "National Sanctity of Human Life 
To counter this, abortion adv­Day" and renewed his criticism of ocates said yesterday they would the Supreme Court decision, which deliver coat hangers, symbolizing he said each year causes "the ter· the days of backroom abortions, to rible toll of more than a million in­anti-abortion legislators across the nocent human lives." country and hold candlelight vigils The administration came under in back alleys "in memory ofwomen fire yesterday for a Justice Depart· who died from illegal abortion." ment friend-of-the-court briefasking 
Today is' the 13th anniversary of the Supreme Court to overturn the the Supreme Court's 1973 decision landmark 1973 decision-and for the in Roe vs. Wade, which guaranteed a FBI's decision not to get directly in­woman's constitutional right to have volved in the investigation of an abortion. abortion-related bombings and fires. 
On the eve of the anniversary, the Attorney General Edwin Meese National Abortion Rights Action has said there "is not a scintilla of League sent a telegram to Reagan, evidence" documenting any con­who opposes abortion except to spiracies to commit violence against save the life of the mother, asking abortion clinics. Therefore, he has him to use his "personal credibility" said, the investigation of various with anti-abortion groups to end at­incidents has been left with the tacks on abortion centers and family Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and planning clinics. Firearms, a Treasury Department 
"Your inflammatory rhetoric, as agency. well as the activity of other anti­Eleanor Smeal, president of the choice leaders, has created a climate National Organization for Women, leading to 65 incidents of domestic said that Reagan ". . . is worried terrorism since you took office in about terrorism abroad but at home 1980," said the telegram, signed by we don't have much attention on it." Kate Michelman, director of the She accused the Justice Depart­abortion rights league. ment of "a right-to-life mentality:• 

r 
--------------~--~~----~-------------------------------------­
·----------~~----------------------­
The Observer Wednesday, January 22, 1986-page 2 
I 
I 
J. 
I 

In Brief 
Actor David Soul was sentenced yesterday to two years' probation and fined S1,000 for his role in a demonstration last year on behalf of the unemployed. Soul said his actions stemmed from his concern for the jobless and were in keeping with his family's history of civil disobedience. His brother, the Rev. Daniel Solberg, is a Lutheran minister and supports Roth, a leader of protesters calling themselves the Denominational Ministry Strategy. The group contended local banks and steel companies contributed to unemployment in the Pittsburgh area by investing in plants el­sewhere. -AP 
Bob Geldof, founder ofthe Live Aid relief movement, will meet President Francois Mitterrand today to appeal for more aid in a new famine crisis in western Sudan. Geldofsaid yesterday that relief food stocks for 2.5 million people in western Sudan "ran out a week ago last Friday." -AP 
Of Interest 
The Spiritual Roots noontime book review begins today at 12:1 5 p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. Religious Studies Professor Rita Burns will discuss Elisabeth Schussler Fiorenza's "In Memory of Her: A Feminist Theological Reconstruc­tion of Christian Origins," which retells the story of Christianity's beginnings. The review is free and open to the public. The noontime series is sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. -The Obseroer 
SexOffense ServicesofMadison Center, a confiden­tial, emotional support service for victims ofsexual assault and their families in SaintJoseph County, is seeking prospective volunteers to assist in crises. A 10-week training program will begin this spring with evening sessions. Training will focus on the psychological and emotional needs of victims. Volunteers also will be educated in the areas of medical and legal procedures, crisis intervention tech­niques, helping skills and referrals. Interested men and women should contact Madison Center's Volunteer Coordinator at 234­0061. -The Obseroer 
A benefit luncheon will be held tommorrow at the Center for Social Concerns. Proceeds will go to a Vietnamese refugee family of South Bend, which will prepare the meal. All stu­dents and staffare welcome. -The Obseroer 
"Radio Free Notre Dame," wvFrs general af­
fairs talk program, returns to the airwaves at 11 p.m. today with hosts Reginald Daniel andJohn Rogers. The show allows listeners to call in and give their opinions on almost any subject. The featured topic this week will be "Student Radio: Is There Really a Place for it Here at Notre Dame?'' Students may call 239-6400 to ask questions or make comments. -The Obseroer 
Spiritual Rock ofNotre Dame will have a fel­
lowship meeting today at 7 p.m. in the Keenan Hall chapel. All Chris­tians on campus are invited to attend. -The Obseroer 

Weather 
No more shorts, as the 
weatherman calls for snow flurries 


~· f9'l 

today with highs near 30. Clear and cold tonight with lows from 1 0 to 
15. Mostly sunny and cold tomor­rowwith highs in the upper 20s. -AP 
~ 


Design Editor........................ Andi Schnuck Features Copy Editor ...... Gertie Wimmer LayoutStaff. ........................ Mary Reynolds Features Layout......................... Carey Gels Typesetters .......................... Dave Thurmon Typist ..................................... Laura Dowden News Editor........................ Mary Heilmann ND Day Editor ...........................Tripp Baltz Copy Editor..................... Mark McLaughlin SMC Day Editor............................. MJ. SuUy Sports Copy Editor . ............... Marty Burns AdDesign .................................. Fred Ndson Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... Tim Adams ............................................. Kimberly Brown Viewpoint Layout ............ Nelissa Warnke Photographer ............................ Pete Laches 
The Observer (USPS ~99 .l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TheObserver is published by the students ofthe l 'niversity of Notre Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( UO per semesrer) by writing The Observer, P.O Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~M~6. 
The Obse,er is a member of The ASM>Ciated Press. All reproduction rights are 
resrrved. 
'Spring fever' hits campuses as temperatures -and spirits -rise 
For winter's rains and ruins are over, And all the season ofsnows and sins; The days dividing lover and lover, The light that loses, the night that wtns; And time remembered is griefforgotten, Andfrosts are slain andflowers begotten, And in green underwood and cover Blossom by blossom the sprinv her~in• 
Algernon Swinburne 
Dick Addis said it was going to be overcast. It was very surprising, then, to wake up yesterday to find clear blue skies and a golden sun shining brightly over Mic­hiana. The dreary pall that has hung over this place for the past few months was lifted for a moment and people began to remember that it's not always gray and bleak around here. just usually. 
The long Christmas break is over, and the second semester and the new year 


Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 
semester is more exciting than the first. Once students get over the thrill of seeing their tanned and rested friends at the beginningofautumn, the remainder ofthe first semester is uphill. The weather, which certainly has a profound effect on people's attidtudes, quickly turns dismal and it seems as ifChristmas break is peren­nially out of reach. 
Finally it arrives. And then the second semester begins and once again students are swamped with textbooks and assignments and due dates and 
deadlines, but it's not so 

are both young and promis­frustrating when spring is so ing. Freshmen at Notre near that you can literally Dame and Saint Mary's feel a smell it. sense of accomplishment. Gradually the semester Those who survived the first gains momentum as more semester now have adjusted and more events take place to college life and are ready to further capture the stu­to begin a brilliant career in dents' collective interest. their chosen major. Student government holds 
For most seniors, this elections, as do nearly all the semester is the beginning of campus groups and or­the end. Or the end of the ganizations and residence beginning. Whatever. Many halls. An Tostal is coor­of those who are graduating dinated and planned and in a little more than three finally presented with all its months already have com­mud-frolicking and other pleted their major field of childish fun. By impercep­study. This semester is tible degrees, the sky probably their last chance to changes from black to grey 

take the courses they always wanted to take. 
Those sophomores and juniors in between have new courses, new professors and new opportunities. And spring is in the air. At least for now. 

Last week, as the temperature temporarily peaked at tropical levels in the high 40s, some ofthe more adven­turous students wore shortsfor the first time this year as they tip-toed around the mud puddles on their way to class. This is a symptom of the anxiety students ex­perience under the pallor of oppressive skies and sti­fling schoolwork. 
Many ofthe local taverns were filled wall-to-wall with drinkers, not only on Friday and Saturday nights, but all of last week as well. Parties flecked the off-campus apartment areas last weekend as youthful Dionysians danced around pony kegs. Music pulsed from nearly every dormitory window and RAs had their hands full trying to quell the celebrating masses. 
It is to state the obvious to say that the second 

HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS  
SOberingAdvice _.·. ~Ue7(; ~-· ~··  

In New 'toOl Stalt Stanley H IUpl<in ECiuuhooal r.enter Ull TEST PREPIUIATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938 

send $1.00 with your name and address to: Daytona Beach Poster I CALL DAYS. EVENINGS & WEEKENDS 
Offer, 500 Third Ave. West, Seattle, WA 98119. 1 1717 E. South Bena A¥e. South Bend, Indiana 46637 
I Name Address 1 

I ~ ~ ~ 01 L---------------------~ 
to blue and the snow­covered sidewalks reappear. The heavy overcoats are exchanged for windbreakers, boots for sneakers, squints for sunglasses. 
Much of the construction that has plagued the campus for the past few months is nearing completion. The basement of LaFortune is scheduled to be com­pleted by the week's end. Soon its planned marketplace atmosphere will be a reality, with its record store, ticket counter, ice cream parlour and flower boutique. 
The Law School addition is beginning to take shape and the giant monolithic stone tablets for the war memorial are being set into place. 
Spring is really on the way. This is going to be great. The Tribune says we may get some snow this after­noon. 
• LlnltlldWily 

The Observer Wednesday, january 22, 1986-page 3 
-



ApresLe Ski 
Students gatherfor a literal taste ofthe ski lodge workers above served bot chocolate and cider life as Notre Dame Food Services held a Snow Fes­outsideSouth Dining Hall. tival yesterday despite tbe lack of snow. The 



Reagan ordered to slash spending 
WASHINGTON Comptroller General Charlc:s Bowsher, carrying out part of a budget-balancing law that the adminstration says is uncon­stitutional, directed President Reagan yesterday to slash govern­ment spending by almost S 12 bil­lion. 
tinder tht· Gramm-Rudman law, Reagan has no choice but to order the cuts by March I. 
Congress could pass its own al­ternate package of cuts or could act to block them entirely, as some members have advocated. But as Congress returned from its winter recess, leaders said such action was unlikely. 
"We'd run into a buzzsaw," said Rep. Leon Panetta, 0-Calif., a House member who helped write the final version of the Gramm-Rudman Act. 
Bowsher, who directs the General Accounting Office, said that addi­tional cuts in the military of 144.6 million and in domestic programs of S3.3 million must be made above those outlined last week by congres­sional and While House budget offices. 
Under the Gramm-Rudman act, the GAO Is required to tell the presi­dent how much must be cut from each federal account to meet deficit­reduction targets, using figures supplied by the two budget offices. 
The law Is named for its sponsors, Senators Phil Gramm, R-Texas, and Warren Rudman, R-N.H. 
In most cases, the cuts detailed by the GAO yesterday were identical to those announced last week by the Congressional Budget Office and the White House Office of Management. and Budget. 
In all, the GAO made more than 70 changes in the figures outlined by the OMB and the CBO, but most were minor. 

U.S. officials debate anti-terrorism response 
As8oclated Pre1111 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of 
State George Shultz and Defense 
Secretary Caspar Weinberger are 
engaged in an unusually public 
Cabinet-level policy debate that 
could determine whether the 
United States someday attacks a 
country that backs terrorists. 
Ever since U.S. forces withdrew 
from Lebanon after attacks on U.S. 
Marines, Shultz has advocated a get­
tough stand toward terrorists that 
would include strikes against targets 
in countries -such as Libya -that sup­
port terrorism. 
In a 1984 speech in which he said innocent lives might have to be put at risk, Shultz declared, "We cannot allow ourselves to become the Ham­let of nations, worrying endlessly over whether and how to respond." 
Weinberger, on the other hand, has ·warned against hastily planned strikes that could "kill women and children," aggravate terrorism and lead to chaos that could undermine 
U.S. strategic interests in the Middle East. 
The Pentagon also has in mind the experience in Lebanon, where 241 
U.S. servicemen were killed in a single suicide bombing. They were there fulfilling a mission that Shultz had recommended, but that Weinberger had opposed from the outset. 
Another consideration of those who argue against retaliation Is the danger of inciting revenge-seeking, Mideast-style terrorism in the United States, especially ifinnocents are killed. 
For example, officials take seriously the threat of Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy, who has warned that if attacked he would send ter­rorist suicide squads to the United States. 
The long-running debate between Shultz and Weinberger surfaced anew in the aftermath of the ter­rorist attacks on the Vienna and Rome airports In December in which five Americans were among the 19 dead. 

Although the attacks occurred in European countries, and one of the captured Palestinian killers said their motive was to "kill Israelis," Shultz has treated the attacks as an assault on the Unlted States that must be answered, with Libya the most likely target. 
Weinberger again was in the posture of urging caution. 
"It must be clearly and unequivo­cally the policy of the United States to fight back," Shultz said last week at a conference on terrorism. 
But Weinberger told the same conference: 
"I think there are a lot of people who would get Instant gratification from some kind of bombing attack somewhere without being too worried about the details. We have to consider the appropriateness of the response and whether what we are doing will diminish and dis­courage terrorism In the future." 
Asenlor aide to Shultz, who asked not to be identified, says the State Department advocated a punitive strike against targets in Libya after the airport attacks, such as a camp 
where  terrorists allegedly  receive  
training.  
But  Reagan  sided  with  

Weinberger and opted for economic sanctions. 
After the hijacking ofa TWA plane last year in which one American was killed and dozens held hostage, Reagan named a special task force on terrorism, headed by Vice President George Bush, to study the issue. 
But the group's report is am­biguous on the question of retribu· tion, neither recommending it nor ruling it out. 
Technical managers from Tl's Semiconductor Group will soon be on campus to interview gmduating electrical engineers and computer scientists with hardware backgrounds. 
Current openings are for positions within Tl's Semiconductor Technical Sales and Mar­keting organization. Perfect for grads who can't stand being confined, either personally 
or professionally. 
)bur challenge is to represent Tl's Semiconduc­
tor Group to the 
Who's Who of High 
~chnology, in areas 
On '(i b 

ltke consumer electron-' 
ics, rol:xJtics, com-a ew c ustrop 0 :t,c technologies. And will 
puters, and I! be for years to come. telecommumca-• So if you want a head tions. Your clients are start in your high-tech career, 



engmeers. 
attitudes about Tl

re ru.ary 
long into the future. 

~eiVas Instruments Speaking of the future, 
J.' :& 
semiconductors have a great one. The fact is,

wants to meet these silicon chips are ~he
Ia h bt very nucleus for emergmg 
major Fortune 500 compa­nies, and venture capitalists who plan to be. But that shouldn't make you nervous. Not when you've got Texas Instruments behind you. 
Semiconductors are TI's principal business, and our reputation for innovation in this field goes way back. In fact, we invenred the inte­grated circuit. And to this day, we remain a world leader in the development and applica­tion of semiconductor technology. 
Now it's up to you to carry this reputation forward. By designing TI semiconductor tech­nology into our customers' next-generation products. 
So bring all the technical skills you can muster. Because clients will be looking to you for systems solutions that will advance their products-and your career. 
Excellent "people skills" are required, as 
welL Since the way you deal with customers 
today will affect their 




5 & 6 
' 

sign up. And let's see if you've got what it takes to be a Tl Semi-. conductor Tedmical Sales Engineer. 
Keep your interview calendar open for February 5 & 6. And reserve your appointment by contacting your Place· ment Office. Appointments are limited and will fill up quickly. 
But if you hurry, we can probably still squeeze you in. 
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F 
TEXAS. 

INsrRUMENTS 

Bombing 
continuedfrom page 1 
the expense of the traditionally dominant Christians. 
No group claimed responsibility for yesterday's midmorning bom­bing in the Furn el-Shubbak district. Police said the car was detonated by remote control. 
Unconfirmed reports said the bomber parked the Mercedes on the sidewalk, pretended he had engine trouble, then walked away and detonated the bomb. 
It was the first car bomb in Lebanon this year. Last year car bombs killed 313 people in Lebanon, according to police fi~ures. 
Yusset Bitar, the top police ex­plosives expert, said the car was packed with 550 pounds of ex­plosives, extra tanks of gasoline and oxygen bottles to turn it into a huge fire-and-shrapnel bomb. 
Syrian-backed militias continued their pressure on Gemayel's forces yesterday In the Christian heartland north and east ofBeirut. Syrian army units were reported to be deploying in the mountains east of the capital. 
Military sources said 1, I00 Syrian paratroopers moved Into several villages overlooking Gemayel's hometown of Bikfaya, 10 miles nor­theast of Beirut, In the previous 48 hours. 
They said the buildup apparently was Intended to buttress Moslem and leftist Moslem militias Syria has sent against Gemayel. 
Associated Press correspondent Rima Salameh reported sporadic clashes with artillery, anti-aircraft guns and rockets In the mountains between the Lebanese army units and the militias. There was no word on casualties. 
The Observer Wednesday, january 22, 1986-page 4 

The Ob&erver/Petc Laches 

New parking garage? Construction on the Notre Dame war memorial fountain was resumed yesterday as workers raised the first of many limestone columns into place. Although the fountain currently looks more like a construction site than a memorial, work is scheduled to be completed in mid-May. 




Surgeon 
continuedfrom page 1 
charges of unprofessional conduct, or even criminal misdemeamnor charges, he said. 
Furthermore, Koop added, patients clearly cannot predict the future. 
"H a person, for example, is im­pelled to sign a living Will by the prospect ofprolonged, painful death in an intensive care unit, some changes as simple as advances in pain control and hospice care may render his assumptions invalid. Yet the living Will would remain ef­fective," said Koop. 
Before his lecture, held at the Law School's student lounge and sponsored by the Thomas J. and Al­berta White Center for Law and Government, Koop told reporters "the three major life issues, abor­tion, infanticide and euthanasia, are all associated." 
Infanticide, which gained publicity in the last several years when severely handicapped infants were denied food and water, "is eut­hanasia in an age group," said Koop, whose responsibilities as surgeon general include advising the public on health matters. 
Unless the public's attention is called to this problem, Koop said, "you could very well get into a situa­tion a few years later when the public will say 'Look, you've done this with infants for such a long time, why do you worry so much about old people?' " 

WED.&THURS. JAN22&23 

8&10:30pm 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 

I I
.. I ------------------------1 I 
: Amtra I 
I I I I 
: FREE TICKET DELIVERY &. 
I 
I PACKAGE EXPRESS PICK UP 1 
I FOR ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS & FACULTY I 
I I I SPRING BREAK PACKAGES/SKI PACKAGES 1
I1
I CROUP DISCOUNTS/WEEKEND PACKAGES I 
I CALL A FRIEND AT AMTRAK II KEN, AL, OR MARV : I I 
;  288-2212  1  
I :  11 AM-7 PM DAILY  2702 w. WASHINGTON  II  
I  I  









·------------------------· 
South African industrialists support apartheid abolition 
As!JoclatedPress 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa ­White South African industrialists called yesterday for an end to apar­theid in an effort to re-establish con­fidence in the nation's economy as the inflation rate hit a 64-year high. 
Central Statistical Services, a government information agency, said the inflation rate jumped to 18.4 percent in December. That was 1.4 percent more than the previous month and.almost double the rate of two years ago. 
Also yesterday, police said they found the charred body of a black man in Kwazekele Township near Port Elizabeth, a riot-plagued area on the Indian Ocean 600 miles south ofJohannesburg. 
About 1,000 people, most ofthem blacks, have been killed in 16 months of violence related to apar­theid, the system of segregation un­der which five million whites dominate 24 million voteless blacks. Most ofthe deaths came at the hands of security forces, but some were cases of blacks killing other blacks suspected of collaborating with the white government. 

The Federated Chamber of In­dustries, the country's largest employer alliance, said in a state­ment that political rights and freedoms should be extended to all races. 
The group called on the govern­ment to create a climate for negotia­tion by releasing all political prisoners, abolishing discriminatory laws and permitting blacks to work and live wherever their skills and wealth allow, and to share in governmental power. 
But the "rights of minorities" should be protected, the statement said. 
"The process of political round­table bargaining cannot and will not start until all parties are convinced that government is genuinely wil­ling to negotiate a new constitu­tional dispensation based on power-sharing up to the highest level," it said. 
r---No~sMcP-re:Law--·-·1

I Society Needs You! I 
We are looking for an energetic 'lawyer II type' to fill the position of secretary for our II organization for the spring semester I 
I Applications available in 280 Dillon I 

l·-------~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
The Boss with the Sauce 
proudly presents yet another 




LEE'S BLOWOUT 

Thursday. January 23 8:00-close $2.50 pitchers Good Food, Good Drink, Good Times 
An Informal evening at the Center for Social Concerns to learn more about service and aoc:lal action opportunities on th Notre dame and St. Mary's campuses and In the community. There will be live entertaJnment throughout the evening and plenty of refreshment.. Come and enjoy .•• and see what's going on. 

.,..,~..-L CO'MC'U'NI I'ISTI~W.-'l 
Disrlcrs, ~hshrneV~ts, E"fertQi11~t 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23 
6•00 -9:30pm 
CENTER F 
IAL CON 
s 
Replace Lost, Damaged, 
or Discolored Lenses at a 
Fraction of their Original 
Cost! 
•Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsof 
•Amencan 
Hydron •Aosott 

•Bausch 
& Lomb •Ctbasoft •Durasofl 


$41.93pair 
* nnted Lenses 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Clbasoft Colors 


'63.97 pair 
•(rtonded WHr LonHI 
•AOSoftcon 557/pr 
•Bausch & lomb $45/pr •CooperVrsron Permalens S671 pr 
•CSIT 597/pr •Durasott 3 557/pr •Genes's 4 S55ipr •Hydrocur>e S871pr 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE. SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 

Ir-------------,
Date 
1 Pleil'>e r.ertd ..,. • cop) ol "') liiU!SI salt 
I ~:.~~~~ l~n1~ 1 ~1•::c~=~o;s ::s•s~~~~u~:~:~e 
I ,.a... .,.,)' mucl"t 
I : ----~.; s.~j;:;arure ---­
....,..... 
I '''""
:· 
. ­IL ·-·-­
1 .. 
........ IR 
I 
I, 
I:flrLj o •. ,.,...,. ......,..c:o ..... 
I . . --­L---.::e:,:~:':_---­
All len••• guaranteed fir51 quality. and 1re supplied in the original lactory sealed vials. 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
1 Acauae your como1ete contact len~ 
prescnp!lon 2 Complete rne order t>e1ow 3 Mak.e check: money order or 
comp1ete credrl card rnformaron paya­ble to CLS rnc 4 Enc.tose name address & phone number wrtn order 5 Marl all rnlormdl10n to 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Carter Rd. Cleveland, Ohio 44139 216/248-2416 
·"Contact Lens Suppliers for 25 years.·' 
Please send ___pain at only ___a pair. UND 
• 
Total for lenses 

• 
Shipping & Handling _ _;_2·c:.0.:..0­

• 
Total 


Ihave enclosed total payment in the following manner: 
__c:hecll ___money order __VISA __MasterCard 
(Personal Checks must be cleared pnor to shrpmenl) 
............._______ 
--·------­
•
·-No sing&e lens orders please. 

• 
We will keep all prc.scriptions on file for reorders. 

• 
90 °o of the lenses ordered are in our inventory and ready to be shipped in 24 hours. 








Accent 
Wednesday, january 22, 1986-page 5 
This could happen to you••• 

ANNE GARIBALDI 
fe~tures writer 

J 
oe is an Arts and Letters major. His parents are constantly plagu­ing him with questions like, "Whatever possessed you to major in that? Do you really expect to find a job? Why don't you want to become a doctor like your cousin Usa? What about engineering or accounting? At least then you could be guaranteed ofa fairly well-paying job." 
''An Arts and Letters degree won't limit me to a specific 

job. '' 
joe can use his imagination as he chooses an occupation with his Arts ami Letters degree, just like many Notre Dame graduates have done before him. The following are just a few examplc:s of how some Notre Dame Arts and Letters majors have found unusual and innovative oc­cupations with their majors: Tammy Mans, a fine arts major, is using her talents as an underwater artist. An anthropology major, Kelly Bernard, has spent time treasure diving for a salvage company off Key West, Florida. One government and international relations major, Robert Sam Ansom, worked for Time for a while, and later started his own magazine. jeff Monaghan, 
:~l \ 

while as a Vista volunteer, which is something like working in a local Peace Corps, in the North Carolina Department ofCorrections. He continued in this type ofwork at the State Training School for Boys 1 and later at the State Training , School for Girls in Missouri. When ~ need for additional space for women's correction forced the closure ofthe State Training or School for Girls, Maguire started a new facility for girls in Kansas City. 
Having an anthropology degree, according to Maguire, helped him to do a better job. While working in the juvenile system, his background enabled him to recognize the criminal subculture. His professors instilled in him a respect for other ideas and cultures, a respect for the ways different groups ofpeople have ofdealing· with conditions in their lives. Maguire continued in the correc­tional field after being a Vista volun­teer because it interested and challenged him. He felt like he was accomplishing something. Maguire said he "had no idea" where his life was taking him, but that he was "probably able to appreciate it more" because of his Arts and Let­ters degree. 

NBC's ~~Magic": 
the dynasty crumbles 
continue to add to it with life ex­periences. You become more con­scious of yourself as your knowledge ofyourself grows." An Arts and Letters degree provides an opportunity to be exposed to a variety of ideas that can be built and expanded upon throughout a lifetime. Obtain an Arts and Letters degree. Who knows how far you may go? 
now ajesuit volunteer, has a theol­
ogy degree. Laurie Varlotta, a 
philosophy major, is teaching 
English in a foreign country, as is Jenny Brown, another theology 
major. 

Michael Maguire used his anthropology major background 
Pat Sojak, shown with hostess Vanna White, maintains a high energy level on NBC's popular game show, "Wheel ofFortune" (Monday-Friday, 11-11:30 a.m. NYTJ 
An Arts and Letters degree can help to give you a broad base of experiences. Maguire says "You should make the most ofyour ex· perience. Classroom experience is only a part ofyour education. You 

ERIC M. BERGAMO 
features copy editor 
T 
he top executives at NBC are extremely happy this week. 
And why shouldn't they be? They 
are the number one network on 
television, their Thursday night 

lineup has taken up residence In the top ten, and their other shows, "Highway to Heaven," "CJOlden Girls," and "Miami Vice" provide ample company for them at the top ofth~ ratings heap. What more could they want? 
"Blacke's Magic" is what they want. In its first confrontation against ABC's prime time soap "Dynasty," "Blacke's Magic" finished in the top twenty, only two places behind "Dynasty." Ifthere was ever a program with the ability to knock off"Dynasty," believe me "Biacke's Magic" is that show. 
Actor Hat Linden plays Alexander Blacke, a worldfamous magician who retires after one of his tricks nearly kills him. But he finds that retirement is hardly exciting, so he begins solving crimes to spice up his life. He gets a little help doing that from his father Leonard, played by Harry Morgan. Leonard used to be a con man, in fact, he still bilks and cajoles the unwary. When the impossible crime happens, Alex and his father fife sure to solve it. 
"Biacke's Magic" is a crafty show, not allowing you that curious luxury of knowing how the crime 
was committed until the end. Then it is recreated and Alex explains how the perpetrators seemed to get away with the "pedect crime." It is well written and produced, (as It should be since it is from the people who created "Murder, She Wrote"). Hal Unden is sophist­icated as the master magician Alexander Blacke, while Harry Morgan fits well into the role ofhis film flam father. Whether he is selling shares in an underwater tunnel to the Bahamas or imper· sonating an inspector for the health department, Harry Morgan does an excellent job. 
"Biacke's Magic" is a fine show and one ofthe brightest midseason replacements to come along yet this year. Just when It seems that NBC has used all ofIts magic to produce great shows, they pull out another hit show, just like pulling a rabbit out of a hat. 


~i~~~_()__i_Jl__t_________________w_ed-ne-sda-y,_Jan_u~--22-,1-98-6--p-age-6 
A presentation of the hard facts on abortion 
As to the question ofabortion, I do not want to inlluence you so much as educate you. So let me just state some scientific and legal facts about abortion. Many I cited last year in a similar column, and many I will cite next year until the medical evidence becomes so over­whelming that no one can deny human life is lost by abortion. You decide for yourselfifthe fetus is a human life or not? Here are the facts: 
At conception, the fetus has different chromosomal makeup from either of its parents. As its journey towards birth begins, the fetus further differentiates itself from its mother. It can have a different blood type, be of a different sex, and can replace its own dying cells. 
Joe Murphy 
here I stand 

By 25 days from conception, the unborn child's heart begins to beat. By 30 days, his quarter-inch long body has a brain, eyes, ears, mouth, kidneys, liver and umbilical cord. 
By 45 days, the unborn child's skeleton is complete, in cartilage, not bone. Here, move­ment begins, although another 12 weeks will pass before its mother notices any. Brainwaves can now be measured by an EEG. By 63 days, it can grasp an object in the palm of its hand and by 1 0 weeks its feet are fully formed. 
At eight weeks, it can swim freely in the am­niotic fluid and has a natural swimmer's stroke. 
At 11 weeks, all ofthe unborn child's organ systems are functional. It breathes, swallows, digests and urinates. It is very sensitive to pain and will respond to noise. Ifits amniotic fluid is sweetened, it will swallow more often. 
At 24 to 25 weeks, the unborn child can 
hear loud noises coming from outside of the 
mother'!> body. 
It sleeps and wakes. In short, it does most of 
the things you and I do, only it does them in 
the womb where the naked eye cannot see 
them. 
This pattern of development continues un­
til birth, at which point 41 of the 45 genera­
tions of cell division have taken place. The 
remaining four are left to childhood and 
adolescence. 
It is dependent on its mother before and after birth only for food, care and housing. I suggest therefore, birth is a change in environ­ment, not a change in life. I have called the unborn child an "it;" you can decide if it is a human being. 
Having described the unborn child's life in the womb, let me now detail the methods which end the child's existence. 
75 percent ofall abortions are perfomed by dilation and curetage. like the suction met­hod, used in 90 percent offirst trimester abor­tions, D & C acts as a vacuum to remove the child from the womb. Another method is saline injection where the unborn infant's outer layer of skin is burned and he dies an hour later from poisoning and hemorrhaging. 
Since 1973, there has been a 130-fold in­crease in abortions, but onlya four-fold reduc­tion in the number ofillegal abortions. Before 1973, 80 to 90 percent of all abortions were performed by doctors. So to eliminate one il­legal abortion, over 18 legal abortions have been performed. 
The number ofdeaths resulting from illegal abortions in 1973 according to U.S. Public Health figures was 36. Ulegal abortion clinics were not the death mills today's abortionists would like you to believe. 
Astudy of 3,500 rape cases in Minneapolis­
area hospitals showed not one case resulting 
in pregnancy. And a U.S. government report in 
1981 showed the federal government paid 
funds for 15 abortions due to rape or incest. In 
short, pregnancy rarely results from rape. 
A University of Southern California study 
showed no positive correlation between child 
abuse and unwanted pregnancies. 91 percent 
of the abused children were the result of 
planned pregnancies. Aborted babies would 
not become battered kids. 
To replace the U.S. population, there must 
be 2.1 births per family. Today each family 
reproduces 1.8 births per family -so much for 
the population explosion. 
People do not exist for the benefit of the 
economy. The economy exists for them. The 
problem in the world is not a lack of 
resources, but a misallocation of those 
resources. It is not that there is not enough 
food or clothing or medicine, but rather too 
much politics. 
In a recent year, the number of applicants 
willing to adopt an infant exceeded the num­
ber available by eight to one. 
75 percent of women who had abortions 
had had a previous one within the past 12 
months. The same women keep making the 
same mistakes. Clearly. education and adop­
tion can replace abortion. 
Further, birth control is the prevention of life, while abortion is the cessation of life. A difference many do not understand. 
By allowing abortion, America has begun to 
determine the rights of humans in terms of 
how II'inorities affect the majority. Rather 
than helping the poor, the unborn, and the 
aged, governors such as Richard Lamm are 
fighting for a "new survival of the fittest." 
Once human life is no longer sacred, where do we draw the line? Then, I ask, can we impose ourselves on the weak who burden us and claim they do not have a right to life as Lamm claims? 
Abortion sets a precedent which leads to 
the quality oflife ethic. 
According to a Newsweek poll conducted last year, 41 percent ofthose questioned sup­port President Reagan's stand against abor­tion; only 33 percent favored Walter Mondale's pro-abortion position. The pro-life postion is gathering more support as the medical evidence accumulates. 
Some have said we should wait for a con­sensus before acting. Historically, before the 1973 decision to legalize abortion, there was no majority favoring abortion. If there had hr-~r the abortionists would not have used 
hr l'(lllfiS as their vehicle for change. They 
., uuld have used the Congress. 
lhe civil rights movement used the courts 10 change: the laws. After the law had been changed, opinion changed. Attitudes followed authority. So why should pro-lifers not use the same means to return America to a nation which values the right-to-life ethic? History repeats itself, although some would like to make pro-lifers think they are somehow im­posing themselves on society in a different way than the abortionists of the Roe vs. Wade era. 
I believe not only in women's rights, but in the rights of all. To me, liberty and life for all are one in the same. You cannot have one wit­hout the other. 
And so I say, "Here I stand." Will you stand with me? 
joseph Murphy is a juniorgovernmentand international relations majoratNotre Dame and the Viewpoint editor at The Observer. 


The slaughter of babies will go on until we stop it 
"May you grow and thrive, charm and be charmed": this is a phrase used in some pans of the world to bless infants as they embark upon their journey oflife. I find charm to be a nearly irresistible quality and I have never figured out whether my attachment to it ind­icates a devotion to the superficialities of this life or marks instead an ability to be swept away by the infinite varieties of beauty this world offers -even the trivial ones. 
Janet E. Smith 
guest column 

But surely the charmingness ofothers is of­ten what sustains interest and joy in this life. And as I grow older what I find charming becomes constantly more various. Even ir­ritability and stubbornness can have their charm. I begin to value what I had not really valued before -the mere existence of those around me, for all their peculiarities and for all the artnoyance they may cause. 
This rather romantic view of life does not obscure the fact, ofcourse, that life is full ofits adversities -heartbreak, illness, poverty and oppression for all too many. Abortion often has been considered an appropriate response to adversity -to pregnancies unwanted whet­her for reasons ofhealth, finances, reputation, family or career circumstance -or to the in­convenience that pregnancy causes. 
Doonesbury 
There are arguments that some kinds oflife simply aren't worth living -that the baby would be better off dead, either for his or her own sake or because of the trouble it would cause for those responsible for caring for the baby. But hasn't our response to the famine and starvation in Ethiopiashown us the way to respond to such pleas? Doe!':.'t the situation there seem nearly hopeles.'i? People are starv­ing and near death, and any l..ind oflong-term solution seems very far off. So shouldn't we just kill off the people who are near death and put an end to their misery and to our incon­venience? 
But we know that it is not the right response. We know we need to redouble our efforts to provide food and health care and to do long-term planning to prevent future famines. We do all this because life is precious, because we value each and every life, no mat­ter how remote from our immediate con­cerns. 
The phrase "life is precious," a phrase often trumpeted by "right to life" groups, becomes clearer. The emphasis on "rights" by these groups may not be completely adequate to describe the challenge that faces us. It's not just that people have a "right" to life; we should rejoice in the existence ofothers. We should be glad that they share with us the world's goods and add to the world's goods, and to be prepared to do what we can to enjoy sharing this life with others. The word "right" may suggest that our rights or a woman's rights are in conflict with the baby's rights. 
But if I share my goods, my life, with another, 
is not my life being enhanced even if, or espe­
cially if, it requires some sacrifice of me? 
Those who work to secure the right to life for unborn babies and who seek to make new life welcome in this world generally know the meaning ofsacrifice. The last decade has been a time of endless and regularly discouraging struggle as they have worked to educate the public, to change the laws, to provide assis­tance for women in need. This struggle has not, ofcourse, been without its victories. 
Many believe that in the last year the pro­life movement has seen real progress: we have a pro-life president and more pro-life legis­lators than ever before; pro-life pregnancy help centers are springing up all over the country; the media is presenting right-to-life activities somewhat more fairly; in some circles "right-to-lifers" are not being dis­missed so readily as fanatics, but are being respected as justice and rights advocate. 
Still, the battle is far from won. Recently in Minnesota, a pregnant woman was hit by a drunk driver, and as a result her eight-and-a­half-month old baby -still in the womb -died. She attempted to charge the driver with manslaughter, but the court ruled that the eight-and-a-half-month fetus was not a human being. That should take your breath away. An eight-and-a-half-month old fetus can hardly be considered premature, but evidently as long as a baby is living within the mother's womb, anyone may kill him or her with impunity. As 
Garry Trudeau 
HMM.• NO Ptll-5C, EfTHER.

6(X}f)MFIU~ SIR. 
YW'R& 11XJKJN6Mt:FE 
PAUlO C.00Pfa(Ja.J, 01­

TIMC FOR YOUR VITA­
/NEI<T THAN USUAL­
f.AT&{) PUPIL.?.. '3/R, IFI

MIN PICX--M&-UP! 

someone has said, the womb is the unsafest 
place in America for one to be. 
Why did the court make this decision? My guess is that the whole abortion fabric splits if we allow that this baby is a human being. For then abortion, which allows the taking of life at any point until birth, would be allowing the killing of babies. So the court must adhere to such absurdities as saying that an eight-and-a­half-month old fetus is not a human being, ot­herwise we might have to admit that we are a country which has permitted the killing of millions of babies. This is not a comfortable admission for us to make. I can understand why we say absurd things to avoid admitting it. 
But admit it we must. We must. Fighting 
abortion is not the "job" of only a few, no 
more so than was fighting slavery or the 
Holocaust. Most good people sat by and did 
nothing about slavery or the Holocaust and 
the evil went on. The killing ofbabies will con­
tinue until we stop it, even if it is not an easy 
task, even ifwe lost friends and are thought to 
be fanatics -even if it means agreeing with Jerry Falwell on something. We must try to convince others, we must vote, we must be generous, we must pray. For the lives of in­nocent human beings depend on it. 
janetE. Smith is a professor in the Program ofLiberal Studies at Notre Dame and the co­founder and chainnan of the board of the Women's Care Center in South Bend. 


Quote of the day 
"H we become insensitive to the beginning of life and condone abortion or if we become careless about the end of life and justify eut­hanasia, we have no reason to believe that there will be much respect for life in bet­ween." 
joseph CardinalBernadin 
1976 

~--------...---------------------~----~-----------~--­
"ie~P-_O_i_n_t___________________________________________w_e_d_ne_s_d~ay~,J~a_n_u~~-22~,-~~9-86~-p~a~ge~7 


Students should join the fight against abortion 
It is a rather ironic week in the United 
States: only two days after celebrating the 
work of Martin Luther Klng)r., we remember 
the 197 3 Supreme Court decision which 
claims women have a constitutional right to 
abortion during the entire nine months of 
pregnancy. 
While congratulating itself for its protec­lion and promotion of human rights, this country accepts their violent denial to over I.'S million individuals each year. The United States' toleration of abortion on demand reveals a sad Inconsistency in its respect fo!:_ 
Teresa Donovan 
guest column 

civil rights. Much progress is yet to be made towards realizing King's dream of justice for all men. 
Unfortunately, abortion is seldom per­ceived as a justice issue. Many prefer to dis­regard abortion as a religious question having little or nothing to do with human rights. It is, however, very much a question of human rights. We are opposed to abortion not be­cause we are Catholic, but because we re<:ognize the unborn child as a human person and accept the inviolability of human life. Respect for the civil liberties of others, first among these being life itself, calls upon our humanity, not just our theology. 

Pro-lifers exhibit great respect for humankind 
Dear Editor: 
Today, on the anniversary of the Supreme 
Court decision in Roe vs. Wade, I feel moved 
to expr<:ss some thoughts I have on the pro­
lift· movement. 
When I first came to Notre Dame as a trans­
fer student from Seattle, I came with the 
baggage of a lot of unexamined views-one of 
them being a view on abonion: I was emphati­
cally pro-choice. In fact, I felt an immediate 
disdain for anyone who had the audacity to 
assert the "rights" of the unborn child. 
On one of my first evenings in South Bend, I had supper with a woman who has turned out to be one of my best friends, and that night I had a very disturbing conversation with her. We discussed abortion and my friend gave me her reasons for being as emphatically against it as I was for it -and her reasons were (God forbid! ) reasonable! I had to question the basis for my own beliefs in the face ofher reasoning. I remember writing a letter back home to a girlfriend saying something like, "You won't believe this, Susie, hut I have met a really nice woman here who is pro-life -and'she's intel­ligent! She has good reasons to be against abortion." 
This statement should give you some in­dication about the degree to which I had ex­amined my own view on the abortion issue; before coming to Notre Dame, I really thougt that anyone who was pro-life was necessarily both a fanatic and an idiot. Well, I had a lesson to learn, and the lesson has been a humbling one. 
I had to learn that, although to be pro-life is not to be "cool," it is nonetheless the only position a person can hold if he or she indeed has any respect for humankind at alL And to be pro-llfe is most definitely not "cool" -in fact, those who have worked to protect the life of the unborn have done so out of a profound motivation of love. Love is the only thing 
Abortion is one ofmany justice issues-such as nuclear arms, political oppression, poverty and world hunger -which transcend the boundaries ofreligious affiliation. There were 
1.S million killings by abortion last year in this country alone -all reflections of the same in­difference and moral malaise which allow the nuclear peril to abide. For those who have dedicated themsevles to the pro-life move­ment, abortion is among the gravest rejec­tions of justice and human rights in our world today. 
Abortion is not merely a threat; it is not a problem of potential devastation. Its killing occurs daily in a universal and individual sense. While it is the unborn child whose life is terminated by the procedure, abortion en­tails another kind of death. "Ifwe deal unjust injury or violent death to others, we shall bring upon ourselves a death ofspirit .... Those who kill, die. And they die when they slay, not later," writes Father James Burtchaell in "Rachel Weeping." Every abortion has several victims: the fetus, the parents, the abortionist and society (i.e. each one ofus). 
No knowledgeable person will argue that abortion is an easy choice for the pregnant woman. Regardless of one's beliefs about the personhood of the unborn, abortion is a violent, unnatural act. The number ofwomen who say they feel good about it is marginal. The doctor who performs abortions suffers as well, for he or she betrays his calling as a healer with each fetus killed. Another victim 
of abortion, often forgotten by society, is the 
father of the unborn child. His rights have 
been blatantly denied by the courts -further 
suggesting that abortion has denied justice to 
a far greater number of people than most 
realize. 

The effects ofabortion are suffered not only 
by the unborn, the parents and the abor­
tionist, but by society as a whole. Society has a 
stake in every human life. Furthermore, our 
daily acceptance of abortion on demand 
fosters the erosion of our sense of humanity. 
Conditioned by and accustomed to selfish 
choices, people lessen their love for one anot­
her. 

We place abortion among the most pressing ofjustice issues because its consequences are dire and pervasive. Four thousand unborn children are killed by abortion each day. Each day, four thousand women make a decision they will carry with them for the rest of their lives. Each day gives us a choice: to become more callous or to become more caring. 
We realize a majority of the Notre Dame community is caring and committed to life. But abortion is too cruel, too commonplace for that majority to remain silent and passive. There is so much that can and must be done by each one of us. First, educate yourself about abortion. It is a complicated issue, and entails many tough questions. Learn how to answer them. 


P.O. Box Q 
strong enough to sustain people working for 
such a movement in the face ofoverwhelming 
disdain and abuse from much of the press and 
academia. 
There certainly are issues that are more "cool" to support, but few call out as urgently as does the pro-life issue for help. Abortion is something that touches all of us in an im­mc.·diate way and its presence harms us alL I want to applaud those who have long been struggling to protect the unborn in the fuce of tremendous adversity and to ask others to join their efforts. Give the student Right to Life group a call and see what you can do to help. In a society which is desperately looking for something to believe in, it is especially vital that we not lose sight of the most basic value of all: the dignity ofhuman life. 
jan K. Buchanan Notre Dame student 

Death in electric chair was ctuel punishment 
Dear Editor: 
The purpose ofthis letter is to call attention to the lack of moral justification for the death of James Terry Roach in South Carolina's electric chair last week. 
Surely, the execution of individuals who commit crimes as juveniles is an example of cruel and unusual punishment. While almost all civilized nations ofthe world have rejected capital punishment as a brutalizing and inap­propriate exercise in legal authority, our na­tion still is tolerating the death penalty for juvenile crime. 
A truly enlightened people will not long remain indifferent to social practices which dehumanize alL Now the story of young Roach's death has hit the news services ofthe world. One can only take comfon in the hope that this case has focused sufficient attention to ensure that people will demand from their elected representatives the assurance that this terrible wrong will not occur again. 
There still is much work to be done in the world before true justice prevails. The older generation hopes that new, idealistic leader­
ship will come from your ranks. 
Attorney David Bruck must be thanked 
gratefully for his enduring efforts on behalfof 
one of the world's discarded people. 
Kinta Haller Hidden Hills, CA 

Fraternity experience taught valuable lessons 
Dear Editor: 
As a proud member ofa national fraternity, I 
was extremely offended by Nancy McCreary's 
column ofJan. 1 7. She seems to believe that all 
fraternities are automatically bad, based on 
her limited experience. 
I am a brother in Triangle Fraternity. I say "am," because membership in a fraternity is for life. While an active member, I learned more than just how to smash a beer can against my head (in fact, I never learned that one at all). I learned valuable lessons in social interaction by living in a house with 30 other men. I learned responsibility In the perfor­mance of regular duties required for the up­keep of the house. I learned leadership abilities by holding chapter offices. And I formed friendships which will last me a lifetime. 
Did we have parties? Yes, we had parties. We also had strictly-enforced quiet hours so people could study. We had people who could drink your average Domer under the table. We also had brothers who were strict teetotalers, and they were every bit as much brothers as those who did drink. We had people with near-perfect GPAs and some who struggled every term to stay In school. And those who were having trouble always could tum to their brothers for help. 
I make a point of returning to my alma mater each year for both Homecoming and Founders' Day, a fraternity holiday. I do this because I know I always can return to a friendly place with warm faces and fond memories, a place where I'll always be welcome, a place where I belong,_ 
Then educate others. Many people simply don't know basic facts about fetal develop­ment or abortion methods. Let your congres· sman know you suppon pro-life legislation, and let your nearest pro-life organization know you want to help its work. There is work and welcome for every type oftalent. The pro­llfe movement needs your time, your financial support and your prayers. 
While this article is being read, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be participating in the Annual March for Life In Washington, 
D.C. They join tens of thousands of people from all over the country in witnessing their commitment to human life. Students also have a chance to show their concern for justice and human rights by participating in the annual Phonathon for the Women's Care Center/ Pregnancy Help Center in February. Students have educational opponunities in the films, 
-....
speakers and llfe issues library of the ND-SMC pro-life group. Right to Life can be contacted through P.O. Box 462 or 283-4298 or 283­1986. 
Human life is sacred because God works through each life. Let's not leave Him short­handed any longer. 
Teresa Donovan is a senior English major at Notre Dame. She co-wrote this column with Bill Ryder, a senior business major with whom she shares leadership ofNotre Dame­Saint Mary's Right to Life. 
Triangle is a member of the National Inter­
fraternity Conference, an organization of na­
tional fraternities which work togeth~r to 
promote the Greek system and improve 
fraternity life. NIFC members are proud ofthe 
fact that over the years they have adopted 
increasingly-stringent rules against hazing and 
other excesses. And if a local chapter violates 
these rules, they should and do have their 
charters revoked. 
Unfonunately these few bad apples are responsible for the generally bad public image which all fraternities seem to have. Most fraternities are nothing like what the public perceives them to be, and are working hard to change their image. 
I am not saying that Notre Dame should have fraternities and sororities. Notre Dame's close-knit dorms in some way resemble the fraternity experience, although not nearly as much as some think. In any case, it's not likely to happen anytime soon. 
Notre Dame's administration can't stand the idea of their "children" growing up to be responsible adults by learning to think for themselves and taking responsibilities. They would rather lay down a lot of rules, and turn people into submissive sheep rather than free­thinking adults. No, fraternities and sororities would be too much of a threat to be allowed on this campus. 
Rex W.]oyner Notre Damephysics department 
The Viewpoint Department 

P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch Managing Editor ........................ _........Amy Stephan Controller ............................. WiHiam J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan
The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan 
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
s.int Mery's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager .........................Mark B. Johnson
adminiStration of e1ther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­_,
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Production Manager....................... John A. Mennell
Sible Uns1gned editonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
ranes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ................ _................... Joe Murphy
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wotl Founded November 3, 1966 
--. 

Wednesday, January 22, 1986-page 8
The Observer 



Irish 
continuedfrom page 12


Sports Briefs 
Fourth-ranked Georgia Tech survived a tate 
rally to down No.2 Duke 87-80 in an Atlantic Coast Conference bas­
ketball game last night. The loss was the second in a row for Duke 
after having opened the season .with victories in its first 16 games. ­
AP 

The ND Women's Soccer Club will hold a 
meeting tonight at 7 in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Anyone in­terested in playing soccer this semester should attend. For more information call Karen Moritz at 283-1362. -The Observer 
The ND Judo Club will hold a meeting Sunday at 2 
p.m. in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone in­terested is welcome to attend. No experience is necessary. For more information call Sara Harty at 283-3352.-The Observer 
The ND Sailing Club will hold a meeting for all members tonight at 6:30 in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. For more information call Dan Dressel at 288-841 0. -The Observer 
Fencing practice for all novice fencers will resume tonight from 6:30-7:30 p.m. at the fencing gym above Gate 4 of the ACC. Any new students interested in fencing are welcome to attend. All fencers are reminded to bring proper gym wear. For more in­formation call Coach Mike DeCicco at 239-5585. -The Observer 
'WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast tonight's NO­American basketball game and tomorrow's ND-Loyola women's basketball game. Pete Pranica and Kevin Herbert will serve as com­mentators and broadcast time for both games is 7:20p.m. -Tbe Ob­server 
Men's and women's volleyball tournaments 
are being organized by the NVA. Rosters must include at least seven 
players all of which must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be 
turned in by today to the NVA office in the ACC. For more informa­
tion call NVA. -The Observer 

Men's and women's racquetball tourna­
ments are being organized by the NVA. The tourney will be a doubles competition, and both players on each team must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be turned in by today to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
NVA aerobics for men and women will begin today in Gym 2 of the ACC. Any interested student or staff member may call the NVA office in the ACC for times and entry fees. -Tbe Observer 
A Grad-Faculty racquetball tournament is 
being organized by the NVA. Competition in the elimination tourna­ment will consist of doubles play only. Rosters should be turned in by today to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
A doubles handball tournament is being organized by the NVA The elimination tournament is open to all students and staff, including grad students. Rosters should be turned in by today to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -The Observer . 
A men's and women's track competition is being organized by the NVA. Individuals interested in signing up for the track and field events should notify the NVA office in the ACC by today NO residence halls will be ranked by points compiled by in­dividuals. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
An open bowling league is being organized by the NVA. Rosters for the four-week tournament must include seven names, four of which will represent the team each week. Rosters should be turned in by today to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Kung Fu Club will hold its first meeting of the semester Saturday at 6 p.m. in Room 219 ofthe Rockne Memorial Building. Exercises from the Northern Sil Lum Dragon style will be taught. Anyone interested is welcome to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more information call David Scott at 283-1 766. ­
The Observer 

The ND Squash Club will be meeting this semester every Monday from 7-9 p.m., Thursday from 4-6:30 p.m., and Satur­day from 3-5 p.m. All members are encouraged to attend every meeting. For more information call William Mapother at 283-3451. ­
The Observer 

NVA stretchercise, a toning, stretching, and light ex­ercise to music will begin tomorrow in Gym 2 of the ACC. Classes will be held every Tuesday and Thursday from 5:10p.m. to 6 p.m. Anyone interested may register at the first session. For more in­formation call NVA. -The Observer 
Bookstore BasketballXV Commissioner applica­tions are now available at the main desk in the student government offices on the second floor of LaFortune. Any sophomore is eligible to be this year's commissioner. All applications must be returned by Friday at 5 p.m., and an interview time should be arranged at that time. -Tbe Observer 
homore Dan Carrigan followed with a workmanlike 10-4 win at 158 pounds. Another freshman, Chris Geneser, scored a 15-2 superior decision to complete a sweep for the Irish middle weights. 
Steady senior captain John Krug outclassed Arist Mastorides in the 177-pound division. The match was stopped 1 0 seconds into the third round when Krug increased his lead to 22-6. The 15 point lead con­stituted a superior decision and another six points for Notre Dame. 
McCann especially was pleased with the performance of his 190­pound wrestler, Dave Helmer. Hel­mer won a tough 5-0 decision and showed some of the confidence his coach was looking for. 
"Dave is improving with each match," said McCann. "He is a 177· pounder wrestling at 190 and is al­ways lighter than his opponents. He's definitely showing the con· fidence and heart that makes a com­petitor and a winner." 
Crowd favorite and heavyweight Spero Karas's 13-7 victory over Miami's Mike House also had McCann smiling. Karas made up for a 40-pound weight disadvantage with a couple of quick reversals and escapes in a match that had good fast action. 
The impressive overall wrestling erased some frustration the Irish have had with Miami in past years and indicated the team's liklihood of success at this weekend's National Catholic Tournament at John Car­roll College. The Irish finished second to John Carroll last year, and the host school will probably provide the only challenge to McCann's group this year. 

lht• fJhSf!rr·er ~olrt· I>Jmt: otfilt.' lot.Jlt:d on tht· tlHn.l lluor ul l.Jh»nunt· ~lUt...knl ( t"lllt"f.•H.. ll'pl,lld~'tfit·d Jlh't'rtl!'tiO~ from l) J m until f pIll. \1onJJ\ lhrou~h I nd.t\ /he f Jhst•rt·t•r "o,Jmt \1Jn "" otf&lt' lol J.tt·tl on 1 ht· 1hard tluor of ll.&~g.&r ( olk~t· ( t·nrt·r J.t t. l'PI' t. IJ.'"''tinl' from I.! o\U p m until -\ p nt \1nn dJ.\ lhc•u~h I ndJ.\ l>t·JdltrH' lor llt'\1 dJ\ tl.t,'llit·lh" '\ p m \II ll.t"'"'llit·J, mu... l ht· prt·p.11tl l'lt ht· r 111 pt·r,un or In lllJII ( hJr~t· '' II) lt'llh pt·r II\ t' t hJ.r J.l 



Classifieds 
tt·r, t·r da\ 
NOTICES 
·········~·· ..····.················..........,........:.......... 
Typing Avail.tlle 287-4082 
$10.$360 Weeldy/Up ~lng Clrculln! 
NoquOIMI Sinawely intenmed rulh 14111-llddrwled envelope: Succe., POBox 470COO. Woodatock, IL 60098. 
................................................................. GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040.$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Cal 806-687-8000 Ext. A-e834 fQ( cur­
rent fedeQI Mat 
.......................................·;.. •.;. •• 1 •••• ~ ••••••••••• 
TYPING 
CAUCHM 
214-1117 
Attention:...,..... 
l)olcneF..... 
Typl..lervlce 
,_a~clwlle 
277-111:11 
8U.NEU EXPREU, INC. WCIIclprG CIIIII..-typl.. 
272-1127 
TYPING 8Y ULLY 272-7173. 
lOST/FOUND I 
.~OST Gold ring with initiale ML engraved on the lace. It ill of im~ ..,.. timenlal value. and a generoua r-dwil be offered ~ found. If you r-e any in­fQ(mation regarding thla ring, pleaae con­tact Maria at 215 Filley, 4053. 
LOST: ONE PAIR OF GRAY WOOL GLOVES IN O"SHAG. PLEASE CALL 288-4753. ITS BEEN VERY COlO WIT­HOUT THEM. 
.:os;:··tie.:P···;~iiii)ii···~···tif,:;·~~;;. 
remember. the one lollt in the Math Build­ing befQ(e Chrilltma8 '-1 ~er. Ia STILL milling!! And. you knOw klda, ..,.,...,.,. out there mua1 be f...ng really really guilty about it. Juet take a moment now. • you I'Md thia. to check. thoM .-ound you and-juet how guilty THEY look. and If you reckon they might have my prec:ioua calculatQ(. tel them to take It to Ioiii 1 found on the 2nd floor of LaFCIIIUne FAST. ~am llartlng to loae alllllth In mankind .... 
FOUND: TURQUOISE RING IN COM· PUTING CENTER LAST FRIDAY. SEE BETIY IN ROOM 3 TO CLAIM. FOUND: GLASSES IN WASHINGTON HALL. IF YOUR OPTOMETRIST IS OR. UOVARI FROM PENNSYLVANIA PLEASE CLAIM AT LOST AND FQUNO. 
... ..~-..........................................~-...........
~· 
. LOST: 1 pair of black, mer)"a leather aki glov• at the Bookatore on Wedneedlly morning. Pleue return to room 405 K-()(call Rlck (the Crul-l 813363 
LOST: One Gold Chllin Brlleelet! LOST: At Sr. Ber. parldng lot In front, ()( 02. LOST: If found, pi-Cllll 2710 LOST: Greet Sentimental Vlluellll 
FOUND:.Set of keya Thu..clay in Hurley 
109. Two GM keys on ring. Cal Dave at 272-6693. 
found: Mt of dorm keys In hagar aud. the day befQ(e break (live on a chllin) call Ed 
4364. 
LOST: A thick. chain-Inked gold brlleelet with a large claap. It wu to.! Friday. January 17th. It haa incredible -roman­tal value and cannot be replaced. II you have any infQ(mation, pi-cal Karen at 1884. Thank you. 
FOUNO:REO FLOWERED MAKE-UP BAG IN HAYES..HEALY RESTROOM. CALLX3865 
LOST: Notre Dame Bolling aweatlhiri left In Haggar auditorium alter Tueaday night final. If you picked it up, pleaae call me at 272-4287 and let me know. lt"a not mine 110 I realy need it back! Rewatd offered. 
LOST: Gold herringbone bracelet with tri color gold roae attached. REWARO!!IIt call Jackie at 2286. 
L<»T : THE NAME OF THE PtERION WHO HIT MY CAJII ON TAYLOR ST11EET ON THE NIGHT IIEFOI'IE CH!IeTIIM MUK. IT WM A DARK aUE DAr.tJN AND CIIDN'T THINK IT WM IIAD AT THE liME, IIUT IT NEEDS IOIIE REPAIR. CALL ..KE AT 
272-1101. . . 
DO YOU EAT LUNCH · IN THE NORTH DINING HALL? DID YOU TAKE MY BLUE NOTRE DAME BINDER BY 
MISTAKE? . IT HAS MY CLASS ADO SUP IN IT:AND WHATEVER ELSE. PLEASE CALL MATT PATNCoeKI AT 232-6687 OR BRING IT TO THE LOSTIFOUND IN 
THE ADMIN BUILDING THAIIX 


FOR RENT 
Semi-tumilhed hOUM In good neighbor· hood 255-3684t2n·3604 
.....1,.:...................................................... . Need females to au~ apt. January rent already paid. c... Shirley 234·664 7 ()( Maureen 283-2612. 
One Female Roommate needed -NO Aptll. -cloM to campua and lnapenaive. If i!lWeated call Sh•on at 3464. 
N.D..Ave. Apt. fQ( rent • If interested call Shirley 81 234-6647 
......;~.;................................................-........ 
Apt. fQ( rent Can1put1 Vlewl!l Femal&­nOMmol<er. Call Elen 1312. 
....................................;..................""''"' 

WANTED 
Wanted: Girt Friday. Part time legal r-ch118Cfetary can 233-3432 
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST CALL 259-3187 
lt"a not jUat a job, lt"a an adventure. Deliver the Obaerver! Spotll now open IQ( everyday of the week. Good pay. Come up to the Obaerver and fil out an applica­tion, ()(call Mark Potter at 283-2450. 
Need 4 Ga Marquette tix. Pleue call Dan 
23n 

FOR SALE 
Large aingle.waterbed with headboard. heater, aide rails, mattreu. lner. lheetll and comforter. Very good condition. $100. Cell Kelly at 233-5284 ()( 239-5800. 
Need a GOOD USED ELECTRIC TYPEWRITER? Let"a make a ~ Sharon 81 2762 fQ( exciting details. 
JVC portable utereo wilh .,_tteplayer. Sounda great! $175. Call Paul 81 283­2107. 

,. TICKETS 
WANTED 2 GA"S TO MARQUETTE GAME CALL BILL X2181 
Oeaperately Seeking 2 Marquette bul<et· ball ticketll. Please cal Jim at 1609. 
........................... 
I NEED 2 UTAH (YES UTAH!) TIX. PLEASE CALL LAURA AT 2706 IF YOU HAVE A PAIR FOR SALE. 
I need 2 basketball ticketll. either GA ()( atudent. fQ( either the Marquette game on Feb.1 ()( the Dayton game on M.-ch 8. Cell Mike at 283-1643 . 
I NEED 3-4 TICKETS TO THE MAR­QUETTE GAME. G.A. OR STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL BILL AT 2001 
I need up to 4 Marquette ticketa/ Cal Maryat2865 

PERSONALS 
l 
... and yet I had no eyea I COULON"T STANO THE JOY of that Love. . 
-Richard Bach. ThellrldgeAcrau F-er 
Hunf1ry? 
Chocolate Frou Frou. . .hmmm 
T.B. 
HOI. Y CROSS ASSOCIATES ... ACCEPT THE CHALLENGE One year ~!graduate wort<. Develop your faith and diacern your prioritiea. AP­PLICATION DEADLINE: Friday, Jan.31. Mary Ann Roemer, 7849. 
FREE FACIALS AND MAKEOVERS Held in your own reaidence. Celt Ju~e at 234-7535 
Profeuional Beauty COiliiUitant 
OAR HousE~·cOLD.iiEER·a·LiQUOR. 
CANIY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 IILOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MC"S PREPARE YOURSELVEs-BCAF FASHION SHOW MC TRYOUTS WILL COMMENCE ON FRI.,JAN.24TH, AT 8:00PM IN THE BCAC OFFICE. AP· PUCATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT 227 LEWIS HALL (TONI"S). MONDAY, JAN.20TH 10PM-12AM AND RETURNED JAN.22TH. 7PM-12AM. AP­PLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE PICKED UP IN 117 BREEN PHIWPS (LISA'S). MON JAN.20TH, 7-8PM AND RETURNED TUES., JAN.21 2:4~:45 PM. 
CPR CLASS FOR ALL SMC STUDENTS.. SIGN UP IN THE DINNING HALL JAN 21.22.23 
HOOP HYSTEIIIA T·8HIIITS Support Logan Center and the bul<elbelt team! Long and lhort alevee Stop by Room 221 StanfQ(d ()( call 2089/2078 !()( delivery 
Hungry? Call Yelow Submarine at 272­HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12am Mon­Thura: 5prn-2am Friday. 3pm-1am Sat; 4pm-10pm Sun. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­pNcationa deadline Ia February 3. MQ(e info 81 CentetfQ( Social Concern1. 
Ufe/1 wonderlul. -Kolski 1/19/86 
THE NOTRE DAME FINACE CLUB IS HAVING A MEETING THURSDAY. JAN 23 IN 122 HAYES-HEALY. ALL NEW AND OLD MEMBERS ARE INVITED. THE CHICAGO TRIP AND OTHER EVENTS WILL BE DISCUSSED. 
Do you Hke to take pictur81? Do you want to put your linger on the pulae of the campua? Do you have experience in Black and White film proceuing? Do you own a 35mm camera and need extra money? It you anawered yea to any of th-queetiona you realy want to become a member of the elite OBSER· VER Photo Stall. WE NEED PHOTOORAHERS In a really bad way. There are acheduled and freelance poll· tiona avail.tlle. Apply at the Obaerver Ottice. third ftoor LaFortune. 
THE CHICAGO BEARS WILL BE SHUF­FLING OFF TO BUFFALO AFTER SUN­OAYI""BERRY"" THE BEARS! SIGNED. A REAL FAN, A PATRIOTS FAN!!!I!!I!!II 
My prediction IQ( the B...,.?. HIBERNATION 
H..ERNA110N WIU 8EOIN ON SUPER 8EARMONDAY. 
Jamle-Wouldn"t It be great If thia lasted 1()(81181'?1 J 
Thanks to all ot my wonderful bude fQ( tnalcing my 21at 110 apecial. I think! I love youI Tricia 
WANTED: Per89fl of good writing abiNty and excel­lent taate. The~ aection ot The Db­..,. ia looking fQ( aomeone to write biweekly revlewa of South Bend"a flne eating eetablilhmentll. SS wil be provided. Contact Mary Healy al The CJb. a.ver. 23&-5313 IQ( Information. 
JBC I can·t afiQ(d a ticket home.110 thia ia the next beat thing. HAPPY 8-0AY on Jan 
31. Have fun.but not too much.MiM ya Ioiii. Gueu who 
FATHER IIOfiiEAU • Your annlv...-y -nol tenor8CI by ... 11..... dan"t -toclwlle. 
Only 17 days left IQ( Mikey to conlemplate his fate. 
REGGIE WARD Have a great aernester 81/en ~ you·re not In the right a-anymore!! LOVE. TA 
TO THE ""P.E. TRIPLE"" AND NEIGH­BORS· TREE. KATES, ANDY. EL, AND THE JENS-WHERE WOULD I BE WIT· HOUT YOU? .THANKS FOR BEING THERE. MIKE 
HAPPY BELATED 21ST II-DAY TOMJSULLY! HOPE IT WAS A PARTY TO REMEM· 
BER! . LOVE. BIG SIS AND THE AUGUSTA GANG PLUS VARIOUS COMMONS PEOPLE. 
Freedom"s jullt another word fQ( nothing left to toae. And you got nothing if you ain"t free. -Janie Joplin-
JOEL IN DILLON: WANNA COME OVER FOR SOME GUMMY BEARS? LAU 
DUPERATELY NEED 2 GA"I OR 2 ITUDENT 11CKETI TO IIAfiOUETTE GAIIEII IRIIH, CATHOLIC, COM­IIODI11EIMOKER WM DENIED THE CHANCE TO QO TO ND; THEREFORE, HE WIU PLAY HANDIOIIELYI CALL KATHLEEN 214-1:1:1&1 THANKII 
RICH, I"M GLAD WE"RE THE SAME AGE. ENJOY YOUR BIRTHDAY! FROM YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 
HEY R.V.-HAVE A GREAT DAY TODAY YOU DESERVE IT! SEE YOU AT SENIOR BAR • LOOK FOR ME IN THE . TIGHT BLACK LEATHER PANTS (WINK. WINK). YOUR O.S. BUDDY 
HAPPY 8-0AY TO OUR FAVORITE THIRD BASEMAN-WE LOVE YOU I THE GANTOS GIRLS 
.......... aquaek. ........ 
The Observer Wednesday, january 22, 1986-page 9 
Irish football stars get reward, play well in post-season classics 
By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
College foot hall indeed docs have its rewards. For Allen Pinkett, Tim Scannell, and Tony Furjanlc part of those rewards have included a week-long excursion into Japan, where they participated in theJapan Bowl in Tokyo on January 1.2. 
The trio was among six Irish seniors who played In post-season all-star games. Pat liallage and Eric Dorsey joined Pinkett. Scannell and Furjanic in the lilue-Gray Football Classic on Christmas Day, while Mike Perrino participated in the East-West Shrine Game on January 
II. The Irish pfayers emerged vic· torious in all three contests. 
The pre-game atmosphere in Tokyo was slightly less intense than prior to a typical college fm>tball confrontation. Participants practiced only twice and so were allowed plenty of time for sightsee· ing and shopping. Even during the game the mood was somewhat jovial. 
"The atmosphere in the game wasn't real intense," says Scannell, who returned from the Orient with a samurai sword, a kimono and a Japanese headband. "We made plays up as we went along. It was rather comical in that sense." 
Scannell even switched from his customary guard position to tackle when injuries necessitated the move, but he handled the switch in stride. 
"Whenever I had a question," he says, "I just yelled over to the other tackle as we were running up to the line." 
Despite such disorganization the three Notre Dame seniors did manage to help their East squad to a 31·14 victory. Pinkett spurred the team with 76 yards rushing in front ofa packed stadium ofabout 35,000 relatively subdued fans. 
"The thing that really made both games (theJapan Bowl and the Blue· Gray Classic) enjoyable was that we won," says Pinkett. "But it was a thrill to be exposed to a 41fferent culture. It was a wonderful time." 
In contrast, the mood was quite serious at the Blue·Gray Classic in Montgomery, Ala., where almost 200 scouts gathered to examine some of the best senior football players in the nation. The pro prospects did everything from 
taking psychological tests to practic· 
ing every day in full pads. 
"There were scouts all over the 
field, watching everything we did, so 
that was a case where you really had 
to perform," says Scannell. "Down 
there we really concentrated on 
playing good football." 
Pinkett was named the Blue's out· standing player for his role in his team's 27·20 victory. Pinkett caught seven passes and rushed for two touchdowns in the game. 
Notre Dame's all-time leading rus· her simply was happy to have an op· portunity to play in front ofso many scouts. 
"It gave the scouts an opportunity to see me catch the ball," he says. "If ever there was a doubt about me beingable to catch the ball outofthe backfield, it was eliminated." 
Furjanic starred on defense with eight tackles. Ballage added four tackles for the Blue and Dorsey made two stops. 
While his ex-teammates were frolicking inJapan, Perrino travelled to San Francisco as Notre Dame's sole representative in the East-West Shrine Game. Perrino's blocking helped lead the way for 225 East rus· hing yards and an 18-7 triumph.. 

Notre Dame sabre fencer Tony Consoli will be counted on heavily this year as the Irish fencers strive for a national cham­pionship. Trlsh Sullivan previews the 1986 fencing season on page 12. 

Fencing 
continuedfrompoge 12 
they continue working hard. they will do it." To help cushion the loss in the sabre division DeCicco wiU have to rely on a talented and dedicated group of this years team is the foil squad. The team captain is senior Mike Van der Velden (Seattle, Wash.), who nailed down a 35-7 slate in 1985, captured fifth place in the Great Lakes Tourna­ment and eighth place in the nation­als. His record currently stands at 7·5. Closing in on his heels, however, is junior Charles Higgs· Coulthard (Scottsdale, Ariz.). Coul­thard fenced to a 33-2 mark and placed fourth at the NCAA tourna­ment. In his rookie season he copped top honors as the NCAA foil champion and was only the second Irish freshman fencer to be named 

Mike Von der Ve/den 
All-America. Coulthard recorded an 8-2ledger over the break. if they perform to their capabilities 
"The foilists are the nucleus ofour and if we (coaches) don't screw team," says DeCicco. "And I'll go out them up along the way." on a limb and say that they are the DeCicco also is optimistic about best foil team in the country. That's the future of the fencing program 
with the group of freshmen on the team. Foilists Ychuda Kovacs (Hod Hasharon, Israel) and Derek Holeman (Beaverton, Ore.), sabre man Tim Collins (Morristown, NJ.), and epee fencers Ted Fay (Oakland, NJ.) and Todd Griffee (Niles, Mich.) all have been performing well in practice and will be giving some of the monogram winners a run fur their money. 
"I'm not sure we are on the right track to duplicate what we did last season at this point," DeCicco stresses. "Our concern is that the kids settle down and start working and make it happen. The potential is there ifwe work at it." 

AEROSPACE ENGINEERING 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
Major areas ofgraduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D) Aerodynamics Controls, Flight Mechanics & Optimization
Aeroelasticlty PropulsionCombustion Structural Dynamics Computational Fluid Dynamics Structures -CompositesComputer-Aided Design 
Individual Tuition and Fees are $1,564 per calendar year. Total Financial Aid per calendar year: 
$13,000 'tuition &fees Center of Excellence In Rotary Wing Aircrqft FellowshiJn 
$15,000 Lockheed/Goergia Tech Research Auistants 
$9,000/$13,500 Research ABBistantships 
For further Information contact: 
All graduate students 
Dr. A.L Ducoffe, Director will participate in research. 
School ofAero.pace Engineering Georgia Institute ofTechnology Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-3000 
seniors. Heading the list is three­time monogram winner Tony Con· soli (Wayne, N.J.). A hard worker in every sense of the word, Consoli completed the tournament with a 7­1 record and could be a more than adequate replacement for Janis. SeniorJohn Edwards (St. Louis, Mo.) also came away from the tourna­ment with a 7·1 ledger. Heading Into 
THURS.-Canadian Velvet Night 

FRI. -Around the Corner Club presents: "Music King" DJ 
All Students Welcome. 

SAT.-CHANTZ A great band from I.U. plus 75c Molsen Drafts 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 


WED.-$1 IMPORTS! 
this years campaign, Edwards career record placed him fourth on the sabre winning-percentage ( .85 3) list. 
"This squad is good on paper, but they aren't near where they should be at this point," adds DeCicco. "They are such a talented group if they only get on track." 
Clearly the bread and butter of 


The Observer Wednesday, january 22, 1986-page 10 
Q @ .SPORTS WEDNESDAV @ E> . 
Won 11, Lost 2 
Player GIGS MIN/AVG FG/FGA PCT FT/FTA 
Rivers 13/12 4221 32.5 77/ 167 .461 81/100 Barlow 12/12 336/ 28.0 71/ 136 .522 29/ 33 Price 13/ 1 268/ 20.6 41/ 78 .526 16/ 25 Royal 13/13 355/ 27.3 41/ 72 .569 45/ 62 Stevenson 13/ 9 261/ 20.1 45/ 85 .529 11/ 12 Hicks 13/ 5 207/ 15.9 29/ 59 .492 16/ 19 Voce 10/ 0 1021 10.2 10/ 22 .455 7/ 11 Kempton 12/12 249/ 20.7 35/ 60 .583 13/ 19 Connor 6/ 0 41/ 6.8 9/ 16 .563 6/ 7 Smith 91 0 421 4.7 6/ 15 .400 3/ 4 Dolan 13/ 1 2621 20.2 17/ 39 .436 121 21 Nicgorslti 4/ 0 61 1.5 21 3 .667 0/ 1 Bc:euwsaert 91 0 58/ 6.4 5/ 12 .417 0/ 2 Peters 6/ 0 16/ 2.7 21 7 .286 1/ 2 Team Rebounds 
Notre Dame 13 2625/201.9 390/ 771 .506 240/318 Opponents 13 2625/201.9 340/ 722 .471 136/200 
• Deadball rebounds are not included in totals: Notre Dame 30, Opponents 12 





THE LIST 
SUPER BOWl 
STANU~NGS 
Philadelphia  27  14  
NewJ..,..y  25  17  
Washington  21  21  
New York  15  27  
Canlr81 Dlvlalon  
Milwaukee  28  15  
Atlanta  22  17  
Detroit  19  22  
Cleveland  18  23  
Chicago  15  28  
Indiana  11  30  


w L 
Pittsburgh Steelers 4 0 
Green Bay Packers 2 0 
San Francisco 49ers 2 0 
N.Y.Jets 0 
Oakland/L.A. Raiders 3 1 
Montreal  25  17  4  208 163  
Quebec  26  18  2  191 159  
Boston  21  17  7  172 159  
Hartford  24  20  1  188 171  
Buffalo  21  19  5  169 157  
Patrick Dlvta lon  
Philadelphia  33  14  0  209 145  
Washington  28  13  4  182 149  
N.Y.IIIanders  20  17  9  184 168  
Pittsburgh  21  20  5  177 169  
N.Y. Rangers  21  22  3  161 158  
New Jersey  15  29  1  166 212  


Baltimore Colts 1 
Kansas City Chiefs 1 
Dallas Cowboys 2 3 
Miami Dolphins 2 3 
Washington Redskins 2 
Cincinnati Bengals 0 
Denver Broncos 0 
L.A. Rams 0 

Philadelphia Eagles 0 
Minnesota Vikings 0 4 

Source: NFL 
11C SKI SALE 
ONCE A YEAR YOU 
CAN PURCHASE AT 
RET AIL SELECT 
ROSSIGNOL, K-2 
DYNASTAR AND ELAN 
SKIS, AND FOR 1 C 
WE WILL GIVE YOU A 
PAIR OF SOLOMON 
337 BINDINGS AND A 
PAIR OF LOOK POLES. 
THE 1C SKI SALE, 
DESIGNED FOR 
BEGINNERS AND 
INTERMEDIATES 
Nr::Y>NGOINGONI 

Notre Dame Men's Basketball Statistics through 01/20/86 
TOP 20 
APTopT..my 
The Top Twenty college bui<etbell tNITIII in The Maoc:iated Prea poll, with fi*~ votea in perenth-. thia aeuon·a recorda and tor.J pointe. Pointe baaed on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponenta are Italicized. 
1. North Carolina (62) 19-0 1240 2. Duke 16·2 1089 3. Memphla State 17.() 1069 4. Georgia Tech 18-1 1058 5. Oldahoma 17.() 997 6. Michigan 17·1 995 7. Kanaaa 18-2 889 8. St. John's 17·2 754 9. Syrecuae 13·2 674 10. Nev.-w Vegas 17·2 669 11. Kentucky 14·2 659 12. Georgetown 13-3 487 13. louiavilie 11-4 440 14. louisiana State 18-2 432 15. Purdue 18-3 346 16. Noire Deme 11·2 337 17. Bradley 18·1 302 18. AIII.·Birmingham 16-4 144 
19. T..,....EJPuo 15-3 Ill 20. Virginia Tech 14·3 105 
PCT 
.810 
.879 
.640 
.726 
.917 
.842 
.636 
.684 
.857 
.750 
.571 0.000 0.000 
.500 
.755 .680 
REB/AVG 
45/3.5 
67/5.6 
32/2.5 
59/4.5 
3212.5 
34/2.6 
27/2.7 
64/5.3 
10/1.7 
4/ .4 
70/5.4 
2/.5 
14/1.6 
3/ .5 
45/3.5 
• 508/39.1 • 335/27.3 
PF/FO 
35/ 0 28/ 23/ 27/ 1 12/ 0 13/ 0 17/ 0 20/ 0 
4/ 0 1/ 0 31/ 1 0/ 0 7/ 0 0/ 0 
218/ 4 270/ 8 
AST 
63 
14 7 6 
13 22 
22 1 7 
21 0 3 
181 151 
BK 
1 4 4 5 3 2 5 5 0 0 4 0 0 0 
33 41 
ST 
27 11 8 16 6 14 4 8 1 3 10 0 3 0 
111 93 
PTS 
235 171 98 127 101 74 27 83 24 15 46 4 10 5 
1020 816 
AVG 
18.1 
14.2 7.5 9.8 7.8 5.7 2.7 6.9 4.0 1.7 3.5 1.0 
1.1 
0.8 
78.5 62.8 
NHL 
In thia year'a NHL playoff f~t. the top four teama in each division make the playoffa, regard­leaa ol overall league atanding. 
PRINCE OF WALU CONFERENCE Adama Dlvlelon w L T GF GA Pta. 
CLARENCE CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvtalon 
w L T GF GA Edmonton 32 10 4 243 184 Calgary 21 21 3 189 177 Loa Angeles 15 24 6 166 221 Winnipeg 15 28 5 171 217 Vancouver 14 27 6 169 198 
Norrie Dlvtalon Chicago 22 18 5 204 201 St. Louis 19 19 6 170 178 Minnesota 18 20 8 187 177 Toronto 12 27 5 175 219 Detroit 9 32 5 152 250 
LMtnlght'aRaaulte Washington 7, Minnesota 5 N.Y. Islanders 7, Philadephia 3 Vancouver 5, New Jeraey 3 Loa Angeles 6, St. Louis 3 Tonlght'aGa-Boston at DetrOit Winnipeg at Buffeto 
N.Y. Rangers at Toronto Montreal at Chicago 
New Jersey at Calgary Pittsburgh at Edmonton 54 54 49 49 47 
66 60 49 47 45 31 
Pta 
68 45 
36 
35 34 
49 44 44 29 23 
NBA 
HIM 
EMt•nCont.--AIIMidc Dlvlelon w L Pel. Gil Boeton 30 8 .789 
W-ern Conf....,ca 
lltld-t Dlvlalon 
w L Housion 28 14 Denver 23 18 San Antonio 23 20 Dallaa 19 19 Utah 21 23 Sacramento 16 26 
Peclnc Dlvlllon L.A. Lakers 32 7 Pontand 26 19 Phoenix 15 24 Seattle 15 27 L.A. Clippers 15 28 Golden St. 14 31 
LMt night'a "-ollie N-York 121, GotdenSt.114 (OT) L.A. Clippers 97, San An tonto 96 Utah 117, Denver 114 (OT) Sacramento 119, Dalaa110 Houaton 100, Seattle 96 Tonight'a Gamaa Phoenix at Philadelphia Golden State at Atlanta 
Detroit at Cleveland 
L.A. 
Lakers at Beaton 

L.A. 
C~ppera at Dallaa New Jeraey at Denver 


.659 .595 
.500 
.357 
.651 
.564 
.463 .439 .349 .268 
Pet. .667 .561 .535 
.500 
.477 .381 
.821 .578 .385 .357 .349 .311 
4.5 
7 11 17 
4 8 9 13 16 
08 
4.5 
5.5 7 8 
12 
9 17 18.5 19 21 
THE STUDENT SAVER GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE 
Ridiculously low prices on school supplies and health and beauty aids!! 
Everything must go! 
Wednesday January 22 Noon until everything is sold Basement of the LaFortune 

(enter through the south or west doors 

w l 


Today_____________________
w_e_d_n_es_d_a_y_,J_a_n_u_a_ry_2_2,_1_9_8_6_-_p_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County 
tfU fi?.OBII{;{.Y TI/K€ SOrtl€ SORT HOW Of o)(Jt.T W 1/fJOI/f fl ~ HIS !M:ff!Jf/U 8flr MEMORY. W 71i£ Htflfl? 
I ' 

Zeto 
Gary Larson
Berke Breathed The Far Side 
Kevin Walsh 





The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Famous gilt 5 Mapwlthln 
a map 10 Famous mother 14 Mingle-mangle 15 See 1A 16 Rose's beau 17 Harem rooms 18 Busy worker 19 Castor's • 
mother 20 Morass 21 -Paulo 22 Gobs 24 See 1A 28 Make public 29 Church 
employee perhaps 33 Recipient 
of gilts 36 Plano adjuster 37 Sticky stu II 38 Deplaned 39 Spoke shrilly 40 Leave suddenly 
41 Wheel part 1Cl1985 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 

All Rights Reserved ments perhaps 43 Crowd 5 Injure 44 Distinct 6 Bristle 46 Bill's partner material 47 33A to 10A 7-Lanka 52 Famous tower 8 Before 55 Jesus symbol 9 Crowded 56 Pool hall item 10 Actor Karl 57 Guide lor 11 Cain's victim gilt givers 12 Be a jockey 58 Ham It up 13 Alllrmatives 61 With 590, 21 Aspen Items lamed givers 23 Glacial ridges ol gilts 25 01 ships: abbr. 62 Antitoxins 26 Short rhyme 63 Direct 27 Eagles 64 Old a garden 30 Stravinsky chore 31 Auctioneer's 65 Acting award word 66 Delusion's 32 Kind of bag partner 33 Shocks 67 Sole 34 Author Wiesel 35 Fool 
DOWN 36 Jousts 1 Explode 39 Oyster fish· 2 More mature ermen of a 
3 Climbing plant kind 
4 John -Passos 40 Blessing 
42 Tree orna· 

Tuesday's Solution 
Campus 
•9:00 
A.M. · 5:00 P.M. · Booksale, Library Concourse, Sponsored by University Libraries 

•6:
l 5 P.M. · Meeting, Circle K, Center for So· cial Concerns 

•
7, 9 & 11 :00 P.M. · SAD FUm, "Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai," Engineering Auditorium, St.50 

•7:00 
P.M. · 2:00A.M. ·Junior Trip to Mul­doon's, Chicago, Sponsored by Class of '87, 59 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Oven Fried Chicken Parmesan Spaghetti & Spirals with Italian Meat Sauce Vegetable Chow Mein Pepperoni & Cheese Grinder 

TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 
zz Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
16 NBC Nightly News 
zz CBS Evening News 
28 ABC World News Tonight 
16 MyAySyH 
zz Three's Company 
28 jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 
zz WKRP in Cincinnati 
28 Wheel ofFortune 
16 Missing ... Have You Seen lbis 
Person  
zz  Mary  
28  MacGyver  
34  Smithsonian  World:  "On  the  
Shoulders ofGiants"  
zz  Foley Square  
46  Renewed Mind  
16  Blacke's Magic  
zz  Charlie & Company  
28  Dynasty  

"Hey! I can hear the traffic!" 
•7:00. 
8:00P.M.-Graduate Support Group, Downstairs of Wilson Commons, Sponsored by Counseling and Psychological Services 

•7:00 
P.M.· Christian FeUowship Meeting, Keenan Chapel, Sponsored by Spiritual Rock ofNotre Dame, 

•7:30 
P.M.· Men's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. American, ACC Arena, 

•8:00 
& 10:30 P.M.· SAPB FUm, "Cocoon," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sl.50 


Saint Mary's Turkey Cutlet with Parsley Sauce BeefTaco with Hot Sauce 
9:30P.M. 10:00P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
lZ:OOA.M. 1Z:30A.M. 2:00A.M. 
CornSouiHe Fresh Fruit Plate Fresh Fruit Plate 
34 The Planet Earth 
46 Lesc:a Alive 
zz George Burns' Comedy Week 
16 St. Elsewhere 
zz The EqualiZer 
28 Hotel AIDS: Profile of an Epidemic 
46 Calvary Temple 
46 Lowell Lundstrom 
34 
16 NewsCcnter 16 
zz Eyewitness News 
28 Newswatch 28 
34 Body Electric 
46 Praise the Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
zz TJ. Hooker/"'KillingStone" 
28 ABC News Nightline 
34 Star Trek 
28 Eye On Hollywood 
16 David Letterman 
16 Nightwatch 
46 Independent Network News stands at 11-2, face American Uni­It is inside that the Eagles are the will have to concentrate on stopping versity tonight in the ACC at 7:30 in weakest, and the Irish will try to take American's Ross. a game that will be televised in advantage of this with some strong With these two missions taken selected areas around the country. inside play. care of, the Irish should be able to 

Sophomore center Gary Voce is 6-6 sophomore Eric White starts turn their full attention to the Tar doubtful for the Irish because of at one forward spot, and leads the Heels that await them. back spasms. His progress will be team in rebounds with 7.4 per game. Irish Items: Guard David Rivers monitored on a day-to-day basis He also chips in 10.9 points a game. leads the Irish in scoring with 18.1 throughout the rest of the week to Sophomore Chuck West, points per game, while Ken Barlow determine his status for the game meanwhile, will start at the other stands second with 14.3 against the Tar Heels. forward. Although only 6-2, West ppg. Barlow leads in 
The Eagles stand at 7-8 and have plays in the frontcourt out of neces­rebounding with 5.6 per game, but lost eight of their last ten games. sity. And although playing out of Tim Kempton is close behind, pul­They are led by 6-2 junior guard position, West is second on the team ling down 5.3 a game. North Frank Ross, who was averaging 22.4 with 12.9 points per game. Carolina will make two national points per game prior to his team's American's biggest question mark television appearances in as many loss to Navy on Saturday. He had led is at the center position. 6-7 junior days this weekend. Saturday's Tar his team in scoring in 11 of the first Henry Hopkins starts there, and was Heel matchup with Georgia Tech in 14 games. averaging 6.9 points and 5.5 Chapel Hill will be televised by NBC 
Ross is considered to be the most rebounds per game. in addition to the Notre Dame con­dangerous player on the Eagle 6-3 junior guard Pat Witting plays test on Sunday. 

ND fencers hope to tap potential in quest for national championship 
By TRISH SULLIVAN ment and had fine showings from in­ment bouts. He will meet with a Sports Writer dividual fencers as well. strong challenge from classmate The Irish squad has a lot to live up Mike Gostigian. Gostigian hasn't "I just want to impress upon them to following 1985's performance. compiled the statistics over his what could happen ifthey train hard The combined epee, sabre and foil career that some ofthe other fencers and fence to their potential." teams compiled a 23-0 regular­have and left Chapel Hill with a 4-4 That's all head coach Mike season record and earned a trip to slate, but he is a talented athlete who DeCicco wants his team to remem­the NCAA tourrnament. The team was once in training for the Olympic ber. To fence and compete at their came up shorr, however, losing by modern pentathlon event. Any potential throughout the 1986 one touch in the final bout to cham­added support for the epee squad season would mean a national title pion Wayne State. But DeCicco will will come· from the strong junior for the Irish, and from a quick glance lose only two monogram winnners corps of Tim Vaughan (Norrh An­at the roster there is no doubt that off that roster in epee captain Andy dover, Mass.), Dan Culliane the talent is there. Quaroni and sabre captain Mike (Topsfield, Mass.), and John Haugh 
The Irish are offto a fine start after janis, while the foil squad remains (Portland, Ore.). competing in the USFA Collegiate intact. "We have a lot of talent on our Open in Chapel Hill, N.C., during the The top contender for Quaroni's epee squad, but I'm a little disap­week of January 7-12. The team spot on the epee team is Christian pointed in their performance thus recorded victories against consis­Scherpe, a senior from Krefeld, West far," comments DeCicco. "They are tent powers such as Duke, Norrh Germany. Scherpe recorded a 34-8 beginning to re-commit themselves Carolina State, Penn State and North slate last season while qualifying for toward becoming a top team and if Carolina University. The team the nationals for the third time. He 
see FENCING, page 9
copped top honors at the tourna-currentlystands 6-3 after the tourna-

Senior forward Kenny Barlow (44) takes a shot over a trio of defenders in Monday's Irish win over Hofstra. Barlow and his teammates will iry to move to 12-2 on the season when they meet American University tonight at 7:30 in the ACC. Eric Scheuermann previews the game in his story at the left. 
Wrestlers pin down 35-6 win over Miami (Ohio) at ACC 
ByEDJORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team can put another notch on its headgear. Last night's 35-6 drubbing of Miami (Ohio) in the ACC pit ended a six-match losing streak and upped the Irish dual meet record to 5-2 on the season. 
Head coach Fran McCann's squad got off to a slow start but dominatc:-d the final eight matches, winning them all. Carl Hildinger at 1 1 B pounds and Dave Carlin at 126 pounds lost close decisions to open the match, and Notre Dame was quickly behind 6-0. 
Super freshman and All-America candidate Jerry Durso put the Irish on the scorebord with an agressive pin at 2:24 of the first round in his 134-pounds match. Then classmate Pat Boyd stuck his opponent in the 142-pound class with an opening period pin to provide the spark which ignited an Irish shutout for the remainder ofthe evening. 
"I was worried after those first two matches," said McCann. "Durso's pin was important and then Boyd pinned one of their better wrestlers. I really think that was the turning point. They got down a little, and our guys took the momentum and confidence and turned it into a goodwin." 
Ron Wisniewski won a 9-7 deci­sion with a takedown in the last five seconds in the 150-pound class. Sop-
see IRISH, page 8 


Irish defense holds key to an upset of Tar Heels 
Hello again, everybody! Opportunity is knocking on Notre Dame's door, and it is one that does not come often. 
Six times under the leadership of Digger Phelps, Notre Dame has upset the top-ranked team in the nation. Now Phelps and his Irish have the opportunity to add another upset to the collection Sunday at Nonh Carolina. 
Now Digger, we know Notre Dame can't afford to look past whatever the name ofthat team is tonight--I think it's American or United. one ofthose airlines. Let's face it, though. Everybody has been looking forward to the Carolina game for weeks, and now the chance for the upset is here. 
However, the only way the Irish can provide themselves and their fans with another "Notre Dame moment" is the same way Notre Dame teams in the past have won -­defense. 
Oh sure, what people remember about those upsets are the great offensive plays. Dwight Clay's jumper to beat UCLA. Kelly Tripucka's 15 second-half points to beat Mar­quette. Orlando Woolridge's fadeaway jumper at the buz­zer to knock off Virginia. The key to each of those upsets, however, was not offense, but defense. 
Fans forget Notre Dame shut out the Bruins for the last 
3:32 to earn the win in 1974. They don't remember Bill Hanzlik's outstanding defensive work on Butch Lee, hol­ding the Marquette star to 3-for-1 5 shooting in the final 2 5 minutes in 1978. People just don't seem to appreciate the job Woolridge and Tim Andree did on Ralph Sampson in the defeat ofVirginia. Nor do they see defense as niuch ofa factor in this game. 
Chuck ,freeby 
Irish Items 

Most of the talk about the Irish this year has been about David Rivers, and understandably so. Rivers is certainly critical to Notre Dame'soffense, and the Irish would not be nearly as good without him. Neverrheless, it hasn't been the offense but the defense which has put the Irish in the top20. 
•
Notre Dame held Loyola's Carl Golston ( 17 ppg.) to a mere six points and 2-of-15 field goal shooting, as the Irish held the Ramblers to 53 points. 

•A 
normally high-scoring DePaul club is befuddled by Notre Dame's zone, shoots 38 percent and scores a mere 54 points in losing to the Irish. 

•Hofstra's 
Luke Murphy scores 14 points in the first half to keep the Flying Dutchmen close, but does not score and only gets two shots in the second half of Monday night's blowout. 

•Last 
year's Notre Dame opponents averaged 62.3 points per game --a pretty good defensive average. This year's opponents are averaging 62.7 points per game, but that's with a 45-second clock designed to add more offense. Needless to say, the Irish are doing the job with defense. 


That must continue on Sunday if the Irish are going to knock offNorth Carolina. Notre Dame showed its ability to shut down the Tar Heel offense in the second half of last year's NCAA second-round game, but it must repeat that performance in order to succeed. 
The key matchup could be on the inside where Tim Kempton andJim Dolan will probably take turns pounding on Carolina's Brad Daugherty. Dolan absolutely shut down Daugherty in the second half of last year's game, holding him to four points without a field goal attempt. A similar effort will be needed Sunday as Carolina relies heavily on its big man, who scores 20.2 points per game. 
Second in importance will be the defensive play of the Irish backcourt on Carolina's Steve Hale and Kenny Smith. The Irish did an effective job on Smith last year, holding him to 12 points. Hale, however, was on the sidelines with an injury, and his presence adds a lot to the Tar Heel attack. With both of those guards shooting well over 50 percent from the outside, the Irish will have to shadow Smith and Hale constantly to keep them shut down. 
Still, it can be done. Opportunity is knocking on Notre Dame's door, but the only way to open that door is to slam it on North Carolina's offense on Sunday. 
Pickofthe Week .Looking for something to do between the Carolina game and the Bears-Patriots game on Sunday. Just do the Super Bowl Shuffie over to the ACC to see the Irish women's basketball team play DePaul at 3:15. 
Coach Mary DiStanislao's squad has struggled early, but they hope to get on track in this North Star Conference matchup. Come out and watch the Irish blast the Blue Demons. It will be your only chance to see a Chicago team lose all day. 





