
-------~---~----~-----­
-
Zahm's Rabid Bats -page 7 
VOL XX, NO. 93 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Peace Corps looks to ND for support for the future 
ByJAMES BRENNAN 
SkiffR•portw 
Dan Smolka is looking for Notre Dame students who do not want to enter the job market next year. 
Smolka, area representative for the Peace Corps, will be on campus to promote the corps' causes and provide Information to Interested students. He will be In the Memorial Ubrary concourse both days and will present a film at 7:30 p.m. tomorrow at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Smolka will also be at Notre Dame on February 25 and 26 to conduct Interviews with prospective volun­teers. At that time, interested stu­dents should return completed 1pplications, which can be found in 
~e Placement office. Last year ap­
•oximately 25 to 30 students sub­mitted applications, said Smolka. Seven eventually went overseas. 
Smolka said he is expecting the same number of Notre Dame ap­plicants this year. . 
According to Smolka, the Peace Corps is looking especially for graduates with degrees in math, science, or engineering. "Africa is having a bad time right now with their education system, panicularly for math and science teachers. Also civil engineering is a big area for us. Developing countries need help with bridge construction, road con­struction and water and sanitation projects," Smolka said. 
He added that there is also a need for graduates with general degrees in areas such as pyschology or sociology. "These people could fit into programs," Smolka said. 
see CORPS, page 5 

Sex questions, problems discussed at campus counseling services 
Editor's note: Tbts ts tbe ftrst of a three-day series examtntng sex tssues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Today's story takes a look at counseltng servtces and programs at tbe two schools. Tomorrow's story wtll deal wttb· sexual at· tttudes and rules. 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior SkiffReporter 
Students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ·with questions about sex have somewhere to turn to. 
Students who have questions per­taining to or problems with their sexuality can take advantage of a variety of programs, services and support groups. 
Patrick Utz, director of Notre Dame's Counseling and Psychologi­cal Services, estimated that his staff sees approximately 600 students an· nually, about 25 percent of whom have questions pertaining to sex. 
"By nature, a university prolongs adolescence," said Utz. "What hap­pens is many students have Identity concerns with their sexuality. Some 


Doin' the twist 

~ Obocrvtt/HJUUJa Hacb:r 
Sophomore ]obn Moster and Tberesa Barnhart, Moster and Barnhart won the competition. Tbe freshman, strut their stuffat the twist contestat the dance was a fundratser for MS. 
Valentine's Dance at Stepan Center Friday night. 
of these concerns are caused by cer­tain religious values and the stu­dents have trouble reconciling these beliefs with their sex drives." 
Utz said Notre Dame students tend to be very idealistic and to have high expectations of themselves. He said that in dealing with members of the opposite sex, some students feel that they have failed and they become confused. It is at this P?int 

Campus Sexuality 

that it necessary for the students to realize that they have somewhere. to turn to for help, he said. 
The staff at the Counseling and Psychological Services Center located in the Student Health Center, Is comprised of doctoral trainees In psychology. Students tend to be comfortable with this ar­rangement, said Utz, because it al­lows students to talk with counselors who are in the same general age group as the students themselves. There are no para­professional (peer counseling) groups at Notre Dame. 
Not all of the students concerned about their sexuality turn to Psyc­hological Services, however. Many people take their questions and/or problems to University Ministry. 
Father Andre Leveille, director of University Ministry at Notre Dame, said that University Ministry deals with counseling in a manner slightly different from that of Psychological Services. 
Leveille said the biggest way his department helps students is hearing confessions. 
"A lot more people go to confes­sion than you may think. We at Uni­versity Ministry are looking at the faith aspect (of sexuality)," he said. Leveille added that he lectured on the sacrament of reconciliation and helped to clarify for students the moral stance of the Church on sex. 
see SEX, page 5 

Joe Murphy to lead 1986-87 Observer 
Speclal to The Observer reporter his freshman year and 
served this year as Viewpoint 

Joe Murphy, a junior from St. editor, is anticipating the chal­Louis, Mo., has been elected lenge of building upon The Ob­editor-in-chief of The Observer server's foundation. 
for 1986-87. 

Joe Murphy 
He was elected by a majority vote of The Observer's general 
board  and  will  assume  his  
responsibilities April 2:  
Murphy,  who  joined  the  

newspaper's staff as a news staff 
"This year we opened the doors to many members of our community, especially Saint Mary's. Hopefully, next year we will continue to do so," Murphy said. 
"The newspaper will only be as objective and credible as its editor-in-chief," he said. Explain­ing the role ofthe editor-in-chief, Murphy said, "Internally, he must oversee the content ofthe pages, 

-a to see that we have produced the 
1 best paper we can. Externally, the editor-in-chief must maintain good relations with our reader· ship and the people we cover." Stressing communication, Murphy described The Observer as a place to learn, both for its staff and its readers. "Our major goal," he said, "will be to Improve communication inside the newspaper, therefore extending It throughout the community." 

Only one from area interested in peace walk 
By MARK MELLETI 
News Skiff 
Although no Notre Dame student 
may support nuclear disarmament 
enough to walk across America for 
it, there is one South Bend resident 
who is. 
No one from Notre Dame has yet 
volunteered to participate in the 
transcontinent walk known as the 
"Great Peace March". 
"Nine months is pretty tough commitment," said Bill Healy, stu­dent body president, refering to the duration of the march. The student would have to be extremely ded­icated to leave school for that amount of time to walk across America, he said. 
There is, however, one local per­son who is interested in making the trek. 
Mike Stevens, a South Bend resi­dent, will participate in the march. Stevens, 27, is a self-employed hand­yman. 
Ater reading about the march in Rolling Stone magazine, he said that it just came to him to get Involved. "I think Americans need to take some responsibllty," said Stevens. "Annihlllation is not for the progress ofsociety." 
Asked to respond to the present nuclear situation of the United States, Stevens said, "Reagan is just keeping a lot ofbuddies in business, the Great 500 Club." 
Nuclear power serves a purpose, but nuclear weapons just threatens the existence of life, said Stevens. "We wouldn't have anywhere to go." 
Stevens is walking under the 
see MARCH, page 4 

The Observer Monday, February 17, 1986 -page 2 


In Brief 
The Patty Curran ticket won the senior class 
runoff election on Friday with 58 percent of the vote. The Katie Sullivan ticket garnered 40 percent. Fifty-six percent of the class of '87 participated in the election-an increase of I 0 percent from the original election last Wednesday. The Curran ticket consists ofPatty Curran, president, Maureen Erny, vice president, Chris Rashid, treasurer, and Mary Roe, secretary. The new seniorclass officers will assume their positions April I. -The Observer 
The space shuttle crew is being rembered by workers at a Veterans Administration hospital. The workers are wearing blue ribbons pinned to their l~pels until the next orbiter lands safely. The ribbons are blue to symbolize the sky the astronauts disappeared into, and tied in a bow "because this has tied us all together," said Bette Emry, the surgical intensive-care nurse at the Roudebush VII Hospital who initiated the idea. -AP 

Of Interest 
Chile Hoy is a video tape of a panel discussion with representative figures of the Chilean political spectrum. They analyze General Pinochet's regime and the future perspective of Chilean transition to democracy. The video, in Spanish, will be shown tonight at 7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. The event is sponsored by SOI.A. -The Observer 
Dr. Erskine Peters of the University of California at Berkeley will speakon"Afro-Poetics:The Historical Background and the Developmentofa NewProsody" at the Memorial Ubrary l..oungt today at 4:30. -The f>bseroer 
The Senior Formal Committee is announc­
ing the I986 Senior Formal will be held in Chicago's Palmer House on April 12. Tickets will be on sale from March I 0 to March 20. -The­
Observer 
John Thomas, senior vice president of IDS Mutual Funds, will be speaking on "Corporate Values and Leadership: A Mutual Funds Perspective" today at 4 in Hayes-Healy Room I22. Everyone is invited. There will be a reception directly following th~ talk. The presentation is sponsored by the Finance Club. -The Obser. ver 
The Overseas Development Network 

will be holding an organizational meeting in the Center for Social Concerns coffee room today at 6:30. lfyou have an interest in Third World countries, you are invited to be a cp-founding member ofthe new group. -The Observer 
An Tostal Hall Chairman applications are 
available at the Student Government offices until Wednesday. Inter· views will be scheduled for the following_week. Anyone interested may apply. -The Observer 

0 MBUDSMAN will be holding its organizational meetin$ tonight at 7 in the Ombudsman office on the second ftoor of LaFortune. -The Observer 
A Brown Bag Seminar sponsored by the Kellogg Institute will be held tomorrow at noon in Room 131 ofDecio Hall. Larissa l..omnitz, pr~fessor of anthropology at the University of: Mexico, will spclak on "Political Culture in Mexico and Chile."-The 

Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be sub­mitted at ;rhe Observeroffice on the thirdftoor ofLaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date ofpublication. OfInterests an· nounce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all OfInterests. -The Observer 

Weather 
You'll probably fall and break your neck on an ice patch today. Until then, there will be a 20 percent chance of showers Monday with highs in the low 40s. Dense fog Monday night with lows in the low 30s. Partly cloudy Tuesday with highs in the upper 40s. 


Design Editor........................Andl Schnuck Dally Quotes ........................... Tom Darrow Design Assistant................... Kathy Huston Accent Copy Editor.............. Eric Bergamo Typesetters ................................... Tom Small Accent Layout....................... Mary Reynold 
Mary EUcn Harrington ND Day Edltor............................... M.J. SuUy News Editor.................... Keith Harrison Jr. SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle: Copy Edltor............................... Alcx-1'eltzcr Ad Design ................................Usa Michaux Sports Copy Editor........... Mike Szymanski Jeanne Grammens VieWpoint Copy Editor....•.. Cindy Rauck· Typists ............................Jodi Shellenbarger 
horst Sarah HAmilton Viewpoint Layout................ Maria Groner Pbotoyapber ..................... Hannes Hacker 

lbc o•rvcr(liSPS ~99 Z·-tOOO) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacalion P"riods. lbe o•rvcris published by the studentsohhe t:niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Coll"'le. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO P"r year ( IZO ""'semester) by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
46<;~6. 
lbe o•rvcr is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are revrved. 



..--------,..._---------~---------------~---­
The Observer Monday, February 17, 1 ?86 -page 3 

Barbie doll helps toothpaste team 
Asaoclated Press "The team also used a more worked successfully, four on the precise method to squeeze the first try. WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -A team toothpaste onto the bristles," Foley "This was by far the best group of of Purdue U nl versi ty students used a added. "Because the contest was so machines we've had in the four years 


picture of Ubyan leader Moammar close this year, we had to take some since the contest was revived," said Khadafy, a Barbie doll and a Hostess ofthese things into consideration." Evan Patton, a senior In materials en­Ding Dong cake in a 27-motion A S75 second place award was gineering and student chairman for toothpaste device to win the given to Raja Kadiyala and his group the event. school's 1986 Rube Goldberg for their machine called "Dr. The winning entry included a Machine Contest on Saturday. Plaque's Toothpaste Dispenser." spring that released a Hostess Ding 
··'' 

A S150 cash prize and traveling The S2'5 third place award went to Dong, which flew through the air trophy were awarded to Robin Bar­the Theta Tau fraternity's Torque and hit a picture of Ubyan leader nett and 13 teammates for Inventing Racing Team. Moammar Khadafy. "the world's most complicated Two croquet balls caused a water­toothpaste dispenser," the school The Magnum Opus Gossamer loaded rocket to shoot out and pull a announced. Penguin Ill is the third In a series of string, which released a pin. The pin 
The prize money will be donated "mostly successful" machines for release then activated the Barbie to the Tippecanoe County Council the group, said team member Rich doll and a King Kong doll to climb for the Aging, said Barnett, a senior Kulawiec, a graduate student in the side of a model of the Empire from Indianapolis. electrical engineering. State Building. The climbing action pulled a string that set off a switch The contest's goal this year was to Last year, after winning first place turning a water wheel in an design and build a complicated in the contest to open and pour a can aquarium. The water wheel set off 
machine to squeeze toothpaste onto of soda into a cup, several team another switch, which started a drill a toothbrush. The winning device, members traveled to New York to press that squeezed the toothpaste dubbed the "Magnum Opus Gos­appear on "Late Night" with David tube, forcing toothpaste onto a samer Penguin Ill," beat out four ot­Letterman. Their winning entry also waiting toothbrush. 
her working models by adding an was featured on public television's The device also used about 20 ot­
.,r·

extra step to remove the cap from a "Newton's Apple." her motions. 
tube of toothpaste and by showing a In this year's contest, seven stu­"All this in less than four minutes," bit more "team spirit," said Vernard dent teams entered machines in the said Kulawiec. "You can brush your Foley, one of three judges. contest. Five of the machines teeth in a jiffy." 
API'holo
Leap offaith 
An unidentifiedparachutist leapsfrom the roofofa downtown Columbus building as two others watchfrom the roof Fourpeople eventually floated to safe landings on the lawn ofthe Statehouse. Building officials are checking their security measures to prevent further Incidents. 
ND/SMC Theater announces ... Orchestra Auditions for West-Side Story 
Monday, Feb. J7 and Tuesday, Feb. JB 7-9prn Room 30B·.Moreau Hall, SMC 
Needed: Brass, Winds, and Strings Bring a prepared piece You will be asked to sigh tread something from the shoUI 

Bring in your sweetheart for Valentine's savings! The first cut is $8, the second cut is only $4. This week only! 
"no double discounts" 





MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 277-3170 

--~----~~----------_....__
,

-----------------~----~---------------­
The Observer Monday, February 17, 1986-page 4 

No tampering at plant, Tylenol producer says 
Economists predict further growth 
Aslloclated Press n::venues to finance their heavy grow at a robust 4 percent'rate this debt, but it is likely to be good year. 
WASHINGTON 'Ibe U.S. news for most Americans. Economists at the brokerage economy, bolstered by falling oil The beneficial impact of falling firm of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fen­prices, should enjoy significantly oil prices will be felt in two ways, ner & Smith are forecasting the better growth this year than in economists believe. economy will expand at a 3.5 per­1985, many economists now U.S. output will rise because cent rate this year, up from a believe. consumers and businesses will prediction of 3. 1 percent growth 
The new optimism represents a have more to spend on other made just a month ago. sharp turnaround from expecta· items, since their oil bills will be tions little more than a month ago. less, and inllation in this country And the latest monthly survey of At that time, many analysts felt the will be lower. four dozen leading economists economy would muddle through Wharton Econometrics, a made by Blue Chip Economic In­the new year much as it did last private forecasting firm which in dicators, a Sedona, Ariz., newslet­year, with sluggish growth and a December was forecasting that the ter, found that two-thirds of them stagnant unemployment level. economy would grow 3 percent were revising their forecasts up­
However, plunging world oil this year, is now predictinggrowth! ward. prices have altered that view. In of 3.7 percent, when measured the last month, oil prices on the from the fourth quarter of 1985 to These changes are not going un­spot market have fallen by one­the fourth quarter of 1986. noticed by the administration, third, dropping from J25 per bar­That is sharply higher than the which caught a lot ofcriticism last rel to around J1 7 per barrel. weak 2.5 percent growth turned in year for projecting 4 percent 
Such a precipitous decline could during 1985 and is not far from the growth in 1986 when many spell trouble for countries sqch as Reagan administration's optimistic private analysts were calling for Mexico, which depend on oil prediction that the economy will growth below 3 percent. 
to help support the march, said Dame, said Roger Voelker, Indiana Healy. He went on to add that the coordinator for PRO-Peace. An on­
March 
student body, as a whole, could take campus group is being started to continuedfrom page 1 part in the march with monetary help in the financial backing of the 
contributions. march. "We are just getting started," theme of john Lennon's song With the anti-aparthied move­said Voelker. "Imagine." The lyrics of the song in­ment recetvmg headlines, the Students who are interested in clude the · lines: "Imagine all the nuclear armament issue has not learning more about PRO-Peace and people, living life in peace." been as emphatic on the Notre the "Great Peace March" or would 
The march's organizers had Dame campus as it has been in past like to make a donation can do so by originally planned on approximately .years, said Healy. The social concern writing to PRO-Peace, 10814 Dunn 5000 people undertaking the jour­group Ground Zero, which has Rd., Osceola, IN 46561. 
ney, but they are nearly 3000 short changed their name to SANE, is of their original goal, according to presently functioning on campus to media coordinator Peter Kleiner. keep the nuclear armament issue 
As the march progresses alive, said Healy. eastward, however, he anticipates that many "short-term marchers" PRO-Peace, an organization solely will join the ranks. existing for the disarmament of 
Even though there has been a lack nuclear weapons and the founder of of interest in actual marching, there the "Great Peace March," is in the are people at Notre Dame who want initial stage of formation at Notre 
Correction 

Because of a reporting error, the caption on Friday's page I photograph was incorrect. The photo was ofjulie Stautberg, who works at WSND-FM. 
AsllociatedPress 
NEW YORK -The chairman of johnson & johnson yesterday disputed suggestions that cyanide was put in Tylenol capsules at the plant or distribution center, saying it seemed too great a coincidence that two bottles would "end up at two stores a block and a half apart." 
At least 14 states and the District of Columbia, along with Italy, have banned sales of Tylenol capsules or ordered them off store shelves, and one official called on the federal government to control production and sale ofall drugs in capsules. 
Ayoung woman died·in suburban Westchester County after taking two capsules that contained potas­sium cyanide. A second poisoned bottle ofcapsules was found later in a store less than two blocks from the market where the woman's pills were bought. 
Investigators reported no new leads in the case, according to the chairman of the company that manufactures the popular painkiller. 
Interviewed on the ABC news program "This Week with David Brinkley," johnson & johnson's james Burke said FBI director Wil­liam Webster told him yesterday morning that, "Unfortunately, there's nothing new at this time." 
Burke disagreed with 
Westchester District Attorney Carl 
Vergari, who said FBI test results led 
him to believe the capsules were 
poisoned "at the plant." 
Vergari said FBI officials told him 
that tests Indicated the seals on both tainted bottles had not been broken after they left the factory. 

But Burke said the bottles came from two plants, one in Pennsyl­vania, the other in Puerto Rico. He also rejected a theory that the pills were tainted at a distribution center, also in Pennsylvania, where both bottles were handled last summer in the space of two weeks. 
A tamperer at the distribution center would have had to penetrate "an awful lot of material" in which the capsules were packed, he said. 
Then, Burke said, the tamperer would have to ensure that It would "end up going through the A&P (supermarkets) distribution center which goes to 38 states.... And then you've got to get (the other bottle) Into a packingcenter thatgoes to the 
F.W. WoolwortlJ distribution centers in 26 states." 
Finally, he said, the pills had to "end up at two stores a block and a half apart at the same time." 
Vergari said he would send inves­tigators to the Pennsylvania Tylenol factory this week. 
Frank Young, head of the federal Food and Drug Administration, noted that the bottles had several layers of protective coating. "It really sounds like it\s much more ofa professional-type job," he said. 
Westchester County Executive Andrew O'Rourke called on the federal government to ban the use of such capsules, except where medi­cally necessary or prepared by local pharmacists for sale only from be­hind the counter. 

~------------~-------~------------------------------~------------~--~--~------------------------~ 

The Observer 


Corps 
continuedfrom page 1 
Smolka described today's Peace Corps as being "mature" as compared to that of the 1960's. "We have less volunteers now than we did in the 60's when it was brand new under Kennedy. But it's a dif­ferent kind of volunteer going into there now:· Smolka said. "Generally it's a more highly skilled person." 
The average age of the volunteer has increased from about 23 to 29 and there are more retired people joining. There are also more Hispanics and Blacks joining today, said to Smolka. The Peace Corps now works in all areas of the world, primarily In Central and South America, Africa and Asia. 

A common misconception is there Is no financial reward for Peace Corps volunteers, Smolka said. Volunteers receive a salary that covers food, housing and miscel­laneous expenses. Medical and transportation costs are paid for and in addition, volunteers receive a S4,500 "readjustment allowance" upon returning from their two year service. 
~e Peace Corps also offers many career and personal benefits, said Smolka "Probably the greatest single career benefit would be the on-the­job experience," he said. "Generally, the Peace Corps is going to place an individual in a position of respon­sibility that might take five to ten years to get to here in the United States. Volunteers come away from there with self-confidence and real solid job experience." 
Monday, February 17, 1986 -page 5 

Speeding snowplow 
The ObKrver/Hannn Hacker 

A snowplow zooms around!ioutb Quad, scatter­rainy weather caused tee to form on many ing snow and tee Into the air. Yesterday's cold, walkways. 

Summer Employment 
Large resort on east entrance to Glacier National Park seeking student employees for 1986 season including waiters, waitresses, front desk, bar help clerks, kitchen help, service stations and maintenance. 
Representatives will be interviewing Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17and 18,from 9am to 5pm in the Career and Placement Services o.ffice. Please sign up for appointment. 
For off-campus, Sunday appointments, Feb. 16, please contact Sean Pieri 283-2175. 
To Sign UpStop By The Student Activities Board Offic Or For More Info Call 239-7757 

NOTRE DAME STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
presents 

SPRIN6 BREAI<-IJAVTONA BEACH 
featuring the famoo\CARRIAGE7 



PRICE· 
I\ 

Hotel only, $129 Hotel &bus transportation, $209 



SPR/N(J BREAI( IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE .TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 

Rilht IJn the beach * Rilht in the middle IJI the $t,ip--­


ICE.--------­

Hotel only, $225 Hotel & Transportation, $309 
Feb. 18 is the deadUne for allpayments 

Please bring checks tq the Ticket Stub In the basement qf LaFqrtune. 11:30-4:30 

Sex 
continuedjrompage 1 
University Ministry also engages in personal counseling, said Leveille. He personally had 167 appoint­ments with students last semester. 
The choice of a particular coun­seling service rests with the individual, said Leveille. He ack­nowledged that Psychological Services and University Ministry work together "because the people in Psych Services are Christians too. One is concerned with the soul and one is concerned with the mind." 
Mary DePauw, director of the Counseling and Career Develop­ment Center at Saint Mary's, clas­slfied sexual counseling "under' the general rubrick ofcounseling." 
"People usually come in and see counselors because they don't feel good about something. In students who have sexual concerns sometimes all they need is informa­tion. All students don't come to col­
lege with the same sort of background," so her department of­ten dispenses information or refers students to other related depart­ments. 
Uke Utz, DePauw emphasized the role her department often plays in "value clarification," specifically religious values. 
"Any time we work with a stu­dent, we ask her about the value­related aspects (of her own situation)," DePauw said. 
"Sexuality, like any aspect of our culture, has a body of research, a body of literature, and from that body of literature, 1 think there ought to be some certain standards ofcare." 
Within the department of Health Servicesat Saint Mary's, sexual. coun­seling is part of the department's regular counseling services, said Colleen Hart, director of Health 

Services. Hart said that one ofthe ex­
isting services is the weekly visits by 
a gynecologist, although "ifstudents 
have any major questions, they are 
referred to the Health Center." 

Regarding specific programs and 
services offered at Saint Mary's, Mary 
Feeley, director of Saint Mary's 
Campus Ministry, said that her 
department is currently engaged In 
an "on-going planning" process 
during ·which Campus Ministry 
hopes . to expand its counseling 
services. 

"We ·have started a series of dis­
cussions on health and body issues," .said Feeley, In reference to "Sexuality: Don't Keep it in the Bag." which concludes Wednesday with the lecture "Optimism: The Worst 
Contraceptive." 

"We are planning on having anot­
her series after spring break on 
values and morals In relationships. 
Basically, these programs are 
designed more or less as we go 
along." she said. 


The Observer Monday, February 17, 1986 -page 6 


Marcos to U.S.: future of military bases uncertain 
The Observer Is always lqqklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme·tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
Your plasma makes adifference. 
How ts plasma different from whole blood? 
tu.!' no CJOuOt\ allOulot-vour OON!oon mat~' ~llerence Tne 
~llerencelll!­
~'boviNCI· 
ong il norlllill. iiCtowe we a lleonQ at1 onvillod Tnew llOVS nave a!liOCXI 011ea1e'*"~. wnocn !ITIIliV means that rneor !liOCXI amor dot 11'1 onetl Tnev crfVIOUIIv 1e0 ilcrenv ll"leltereo ~le IJeCau!e rnev cCUd !lleeo to outn from' rnro" q.sv TOOilv tnev caon De trwted With' CIOttong facta tnat tneor own DOOoes oo hlX croca.ce 
And that clotting faCtor Is taken frOm the plaSma you donate. 

Plalma .s tne IIQUO(I on wnocn lliOOd cell\ ate trano>· PQ<teo APQ<oxlll'liltt!lv 1\aif of 01000 .s p~aVna Tne lliOOd cellS ate lel)atateo lrcm VOJI p~aVna at tne
HOw much plasma 

aonor center 11'1 a croc~s calteO l)laVNPileres<S ilnlIS needed? A101. fCI' eumote. one returneo to vour DOOv \lilt o1 p~aVna ~ 15 tnaon il t~IIA o1 tne Tne p~aVna taken from dotti'IQ tacror ~neeo. so you caon see vour lliOOd .s atxklt rne neeo tor lill'ge ~oll)la5ma JUSt ta hemo­9~ moner al\ ana water. ~ Ana t~ of \liltS oll)la5ma are Uled most of rne remaonaer .s 
onnospt.JISilll(l cror-11 1\ rnew cro­
,_ that ate Uled ro
emergency rooms evert ~ tO YVe treat people wotn vatoOUS llliii1V ~ves 
gJ_ ~cr "'"'oes 
1~ 

Cash For Your donation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PlASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation is important, so important that we'll poy $7.00 for your first donation and $9.00 if you donate a second time within thtt same 
... .• calendar week. In addition, if you meet the physical requirements ~~ you'll be given a FREE physical and $60:00 ~orth of FREE Lab Tests. 
~ Open. TUES., WED., THURS., FRI., 9.()(}5.00 
-AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
Bring In this ad for a $4Bonus
New Donors .
pfter your f1rst donation. 

As8oclated Press 
WASHINGTON-One day after being declared winner of the Philippine election, President Fer­dinand Marcos threatened yester­day to abrogate the military bases treaty with the United States if the Reagan administration cuts off aid to his government. 
"If that happens, we'll have to talk about renegotiating the bases," Marcos said yesterday on CBS' interview program "Face The Nation." 
Marcos added, however, "We have to renegotiate those bases anyway because you have not paid the compensatory package for the use ofmilitary facilities, to the tune of about $70 million." 
During his 20 years in power, Marcos has repeatedly used the treaty covering the bases -the two largest U.S. military facilities outside the United Sates -as a bar­gaining chip to assure support from Washington. 
He also brought up the issue during the election campaign, ac­cusing challenger Corazon Aquino of being ready to break the treaty, while denying he ever fathomed the idea. 
Both Marcos and Aquino have said the United States should pay a higher rent for use ofthe bases. 
Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., chair­man of the Senate For.aign Rela­tions Committee who led the official U.S. delegation that ob­served the election, said Marcos' refusal to carry out reforms has jeopardized the security_ of the bases. 

"As a matter of fact we believe our bases ace in jeopardy because the Philippine army doesn't have the efficiency it ought to have," said Lugar, who also appeared on the program. 
The United States considers its two principal bases in the Philippines, Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Base, sq:ategically important to its security interests throughout the Pacific, par­ticularly since the Soviet. Union took over use of Cam Ranh Bay from the United States after the Vietnam Wac. 
Lugar said the United States is "growing weary" of Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos claim­ing to be a strong anti-communist "but consistently playing the Soviet card," 
Speaking at a news conference before a B'Nai B'rith luncheon yes­terday; ,._ugar said "it would seem the Philippine people do not want the Soviets." 
"They apparently ace not ei\llffiored with President Marcos either," he said, referring to the close, disputed election between' Marcos and opposition candidate Corizon Aquino. 
Marcos has hinted at stronger ties with the Soviet Union by sen­ding his wife, Imelda, to the Soviet Union "at the same time he was cal­which could affect not only the ficulty in support of our base ling the election," Lugar said. amount of congressional aid ap­rights," Lugar said. 
"If he was anti-Communist, he propriated to the country but also Lugar said he may support hal­certainly wasn't very good at it," he negotiations for a continued ting aid to the Marcos government. said. "After a while, Americans American military presence in the "The problem is trying to separate become weary ofsomebody who's Philippines. aid for military reform from an en­supposed to be a strong anti­"For the moment, if we were to dorsement of President Marcos. I Communist but consistently give aid to a government that has think that's a very delicate playing the Soviet card." had a flawed election, we might problem, maybe not impossible, 
The disputed election had "a court more difficulty with the but one we will have to conSider flawed outcome," the senator said, people and more long-range dif-carefully." 



Aquino calls for peaceful protests 
Auodated Preu new six-year term, and urged a Constabulary Chief Lt. Gen. 
boycott of banks and newspapers Fidel Ramos was appointed in­
MANILA, Philippines -Corazon owned by Marcos' "cronies." terim chiefofstaff, Marcos said. Aquino called yesterday for non­Aquino, who had vowed to lead Ver, 66, was charged in the violent protests against newly re­daily demonstrations if she was August 1983 assassination of elected President Ferdinand cheated at the polls, also called on Aquino's husband, opposition Marcos, who declared, "I am the the military and police to disobey leader Benigno Aquino. But a court 
later acquitted him, 24 otherpresident. They are not going to orders that were "unjust." drive me out." 
"Although unarmed, I feel like military men and one civilian also 
Marcos, president for 20 years, the young boy David prepared to accused In the murder. also announced yesterday the face the giant Goliath," she said. "If U.S. officials, concerned about a resignation of his most powerful Goliath refuses to yield, we shall growing communist insurgency in military commander, Gen. Fabian escalate our non-violent struggle." the Philippines, saw Ver as a Ver. In a news conference at the hindrance to military reforms. 
A day after the National As­presidential palace, Marcos again Ver's resignation ·was an­sembly declared Marcos winner of rejected charges he won through nounced a day before Marcos, an election marke(i by charges of fraud and said he would not step Aquino and other Filipino leaders fraud and terrorism, more than half down. were to meet with Philip Habib, a a million Filipinos joined his op­"I am the president. They are not special envoy sent by President ponent in a downtown park rally -a going to drive me out. The people Reagan to observe the aftermath of much bigger rally than any that had are behind me," he said. the divisive election. gathered in the campaign leading Marcos also announced that Ver, "I am convinced that if there was to the Feb. 7 presidential election. the armed forces chief, had any fraud, it may have been com­
Aquino called for strikes and resigned, and he had accepted the mitted by the lower levels and was school shutdowns on the day after resignation. But he said Ver would not authorized by the upper Marcos' Feb. 26 inauguration for a remain available as a consultant. leadership," Marcos said. 
28th ANNUAL FINANCE FORUM 






Accent 

Monday, February 17, 1986-page 7 
Plague strikes ND:Murphy feels no pain 

1 

do? That's right, you'd probably pretzel-aspirin party mix and Con· I guess we could all run offto the 1 
1 

throw a great party. You could call tac pills on a Ritz. monastery but I have the feeling I Krls Murphy 1 
it "The Countdown to Plague Party: Afterwards everybody could call just wouldn't fit in there. 
1 Go Nuts Before It's Too Late." the same ambulance and we'd all go , 
Everybody could come dressed as to the emergency room together. It It's probably not plague though. ,
Altered 

their favorite viral disease and we would be the party to end all In fact, I feel better already. What could have great mixed drinks like parties. Get it? OK, OK, I know it's day is it anyway? Friday? Why lm· 
~ 


1 
t struck suddenly one morning. I so I cross my eyes and walk to class. vodka and cough syrup or gin and sick but that seems like the only agine that. Will the wonders of ,
Nyquil. Snacks would include a alternative when the plague comes. modern medicine never cease?
woke up sick. At least I felt sick. People are probably looking at me My throat hurt so bad I could hardly funny but my eyes are crossed so I swallow, there was enough junk in can't see them. my sinuses to fill up the Great My Western Civ class passes Lakes, and for every breath I took I through a haze of Hall's Menthol· sneezed twice. iptis that I get from the girl next to 
Great, I thought, just what I need. me. She's sick too so we sniftle in I'm eighteen years old and I might unison for a while and I let her use live for ten more minutes. Maybe I my Kleenex. The romance ends too should go back to bed and die in my quickly though as she feels sick and sleep. I wrestle with this idea and has to leave the room. I fall asleep decide to go to class instead. I look and as ususal I drool on my desk. for aspirin but there Is none. We do How appealing. Class ends and my have some Tylenol but that would professor thanks me for making the only kill me faster so I go without. I room smell like menthoL I thank dress slowly listening to some him for putting me to sleep for the 
~ 

germs hold a conversation in my umpteenth time and we part the 
~ 

larynx; best of friends. Germ One: Let's kill him now! Calculus is even better as I groan 
1, Germ Two: Will you relax, we In pain and run out oftissues. I , 
just got here. Anyway his white become delirious and am asked to 1 blood cells should show up soon leave. I go home and get in bed, and then the party's over. whereupon one of my roommates ~ ,
enters with good and bad news. The 
1

Germ One: Boring. Boring. Spell good news is our section RA has 
1

that B·O·R·I·N·G. I don't know why mono. This means that we can feel 
1

I hang out with you anymore, free to become as drunk and liscen­
1

you're no fun at alL You used to be tious as we please. Unfortunately so crazy too. Remember that wild the bad news is that my roommate party those guys from Asian Flu had is also sick. He proceeds to cough a at Michigan last year? Everybody in lot and drink all my Nyquil. that dorm must have thrown up at It soon becomes apparent that least twice. lots ofpeople are sick. The 
Germ Two: Oh lay off, I'm not bookstore is running out ofcherry happy just making people throw up cough syrup and everybody talks anymore. I mean, being a virus is funny. They say "Exscuzz muh, cud fun and everything but I think I'd you reputt thet. I hab a cud and rather be a brain cell or a neuron or muh hedd es all stubbed up." Then something useful like that. I wanna they cough in your face. I start to be somebody! My life now is just worry. All these people sick; and endless stream ofone night disease, pain, gross stuff in your stands and I need security. I want to nose. Maybe it's plague! You live in one body and have a family remember plague right? The Middle of mucous cells or something. Ages, rats, everybody yelling and 
Germ One: You really are weird. dying in the streets, whole villages I'm going to go give this guy a wiped out in days. Scary. headache so stay away from me. I think about it a little longer 
By the time I leave my room I do though and it doesn't sound so bad. have a headache. A splitting one. Ifyou thought that you only had a When I cross my eyes it feels better couple days to live what would yon 


Zahm's Rabid Bats:Fun both on and off the ice 
0 
TIM ADAMS around." Then something hap· Now you're probably saying, want to do it again next year," said to come together this year and I features copy edttor pened. It started becoming fun to "Well, all this stuff is really nice, but Parkin. Freshman Bill Weinsheimer, think we'll be even better next year. watch the Rabid Bats in action. does it actually help the team win a member ofthe team, added, With the good young players we n the Notre Dame campus, "In '84-'85, the program really games?" The answer to that is a "There's great fan support, and have now, we'll be a force to be there is interhall, intrahall, picked up. It was started by Coach definite maybe. everyone's out there having a good reckoned with." lnterquad and even interroom Mike Sullivan and Ed Graber. They Zahm's record Is 3·2, but Parkin time. We have a lot ofgood fresh· The Zahm Hall Rabid Bats are sports competition. With oodles just decided to make this into a big, said that winning games Is not why men on the team, so I think we have already a force to be reckoned with and oodles of squads, teams and fun thing," said Parkin. the team plays. "It wouldn't be any a bright future." in terms ofhaving a good time. 
battalions like these, fan support Is That tradition offun continues fun without the fans. They're the Perhaps Hickey summed it up Going undefeated next year often minimal or nonexistent. today in a big way. Where else people who make It worthwhile," best when he stated, "We're starting wouldn't be bad. either. But one lnterhall team is out could you go to a hockey game and said Parkin. "That's the reason why there making a name for itself, see doormen dressed in jackets and we have all these little things, kind performing stunts like giving out ties? The Zahm team does things of to pay them back for their sup­

• .• ' 
kazoos to the fans and displaying a just a little bit differently than port. The fans want to make us play mascot dressed like Batman. It everybody else. They sponsor a harder, knowing there's someone 
..-~ 

attracts at least 200 fans to most of ra.ffie to benefit multiple sclerosis watching us." its games, which is more than many victims, they have a hockey ban­In particular, the enthusiasm teams get in a whole season. This quet each year, they have a mailing from the rest of Zahm's residents, team Is the Zahm interhall hockey list and they distribute programs from women's dorms like Farley, team, better known as the Rabid and newsletters. And last year, as Lewis and Breen-Phillips, and from Bats. kind ofa salute to their coach, the ex·Zahm residents now living off­
The evolution of Zahm's hockey Rabid Bats let Sullivan play goalie campus Is what keeps the team team is a Cinderella story ofsorts, as against Pangborn in his final game. going, according to Parkin. AI McGuire would say. In the 1982· This year, the team has been One Zahm resident, sophomore 
83 season, Zahm was the worst active, thinking of new twists to add Alex Dalal, thought the Rabid Bats 
team in the league. The Rabid Bats to the program. Parkin said the were doing some good for the had never won a game in all the team Is working on getting a band dorm: "It supports the hall spirit, years of their existence. Then, in to play at each game. Senior Chris especially because Zahm is a tightly the 1983-84 season, Zahm Athalde has been filming each Zahm knit team." Sophomore Ed Hickey, a combined with Stanford and finally game for a highlight film at the end goalie on the team, added, "I think won a game. of the season. To add a definite the fans have as much fun as the 
This year's Rabid Bats coach, professional touch to the team's players." 
senior AI Parkin, said of the teams of image, freshman Steve Hlghter and As for next year, Parkin said he past years, "They had some fan sophomore Bob Lach designed an hopes the team carries on the tradi­The Observer /Robert Jones support (in '82·'83), because it was. official Rabid Bats logo which now tion. "I think that the team has 
The Zahm hockey mascot rallies around the team flag at a recent game 
such a joke to see these guys skating graces the team's flag. learned everything. I just hope they 


r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
~ 
r 
! 

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_________________Mo-nd-ay_,F_eb_ru_~_l_7,_19-86--p-ag-e8 
Senate Republicans are obstacles for tax reforms 
Politicians reign as perhaps the most con­tradictory individuals in our Camelot. Some­how our national representatives can stand on both sides of a fence and point fingers across 

KenKoiJman 
no easy solutions 
the divider in disgust. A troublesome paradox: Republican senators are for tax reform; Republican senators are not for tax reform. 
like most tough economic choices, in­dividual elected leaders find it hard both to support and to oppose tax reform. It is much like the federal deficit. Sure, I'm for cuttingthe deficit, but geez, not inmy district. 
The House Ways and Means Committee tax reform bill will have a tough time getting Senate support. It seems the bill does not have enough loopholes, gimmicks and preferences for the senators. Everyone feels the bill can be improved, but no one agrees how. 


The New Republic last week declared this is the last chance for tax reform for a long time. Opportunities come so infrequently, "if you oppose the legislation ultimately approved by the House on Dec. 16, you oppose tax reform," they maintain. But the senators are forced to wrestle with this one. 
The ones having the most trouble are the Republican senators. The Senate Finance Committee is headed by Oregon Republican Bob Packwood, and lost tax breaks for the tim­ber industry is one trophy he will surely restore to the bill. And Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole fears losing the bill to the Democrats. From all indication, he will allow a fair amount of pork-barreling by the Republicans just to get the credit. 
There are 22 Republican seats up for elec­tion in November, and the Republican majority is already in jeopardy. Tough tax legislation may be unpopular among incum­bent Republicans. To help House Republicans, Reagan has promised to "improve the business side" ofthe bill. 
Big business in general opposes the tax reform. But many business people are resigned to its passage, which seems likely. Their lobbyists carry a shopping list ofamend­ments that will favor their industry, clothe it in patriotic dress, push it under the noses of the lawmakers, and hope the key provisions will pass. 
The surest ticket to. passage is getting Reagan on their side. For example, the so-called value-added tax, which taxes each level of distribution and production, has found some support among tax reformers. But Reagan was successfully courted by ~oth big business and incumbent senators unwilling to tax local businesses. Result? Chances for passage are slim. 

Lawmakers with an ear to business feel the pinch. A proposed oil-import fee on each bar­rel ofcrude would net the treasury anywhere from ~22 billion to S31.5 billion annually. Suprisingly, its chances of enactment are gaining favor. Witness, however, what may happen. A possible deadlock between energy­producing states and Northeastern states that are heavy energy consumers could kill it. 
While the oil-import fee is not part of the House Ways and Means Committee bill, it gives an example of how personal interest causes legislators to dissect and ambush tax reform. 
The White House is determined to keep the tax reform revenue neutral. Although the case can be made that the Republicans lost their claim to be the party of tax reform (most House Republicans opposed the bill), the image of Reagan pushing tax reform aligns him with any tax bill passed this year. Forget a tax increase this year. 
So we face another paradox. Supporters of the bill include congressional Democrats, a few House Republicans and Reagan. The Senate Republicans have sold out. They stand as the great obstacle for tax reform this year. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Athletic Scores should not replace academic scores 
Six hundred forty. 
Buried underneath the incredible statistics, the All-Everything honors, the recruiters' fan­tastic reviews and Lou Holtz's verb~ platitudes lies one cold hard fact that might traumatize new football recruit Tony Rice's honeymoon with Notre Dame. 
A 640 combined SAT score. 


Terry Kibelstis 
guest column 
Holtz may be the new coach here, but Notre Dame's reputation for academics is so renowned that even in Minnesota he must have heard about it. The University's de­emphasis on "football factory-building" is a direct response to it. The community is composed ofstudents first, athletes second. 
Or so I thought. But obviously, Holtz does not. Through Statements released in The Ob­server it has become noticeable that only Rice's athletic talents were considered during his recruitment. 
Consider the following: 
"He has taken all the subjects that everyone else around here has taken, and he has received excellent grades." 
Tony Rice has a 2.65 grade point average. 
"To my knowledge, he's a good student." 
Really? And how far does that knowledge go? "I'm not even familiar with Rice's SAT 
scores." 
Oh. 
Around this time last year, many of Notre 
Dame's present freshmen were involved in the process of awaiting admissions decisions from various colleges. The anxiety of that process is still fresh in their minds. SATs. GPAs. Recommendations. Essays. And while other qualities factored in that admissions process, it is a given fact that those numbers weigh heavily in the decisions. Having ex­perienced Notre Dame's tough admissions standard, I am shocked to read that 7,000 yards total offense counts for more than 640 SATs. 
Football and other athletics are an integral part of this university. They increase school spirit, give Notre Dame national prominence, offer scholarship possibilities to students who otherwise might not have had that chance, and are a source ofrevenue for the University. Yet a line must be drawn between alumni satisfaction and academic reputation. The ac­ceptance ofa ridiculously underqualified can­didate compromises the community and mocks those standards. 
The wisdom of considering athletic talent as the sole basis of acceptance is dubious indeed. Once Rice does get here, what type of academic future will he have? Can his scholas­tic talents measure up to Notre Dame's in­tense courses, combined with the long hours of football practice? Will 7,000 yards total of­fense compensate for his obvious lack ofhigh school academic success? Tutors can only go so far. 
By filling in three circles -correctly or in­correctly-on the SAT and signing one's name, one receives 400 points. The remaining 1,200 are earned by answering correctly. In those terms, therefore, Rice scored 240. Can his ath­letic scores make up for this? 
Rice has some incredible statistics: 7,000 

But can he read? Does the admissions office yards total offense, 40 touchdowns, only two have enough guts to ask? career losses and some incredible seasons. He is the star of Holtz's first Notre Dame recruit­Terry Kibelstis is in the Freshman Year of ingclass. Studies atNotre Dame. 
Despite our great wealth theft is still occurring 
To steal. According to Webster, to steal is to take the property of another wrongfully and especially as an habitual or regular practice. Thou shalt not steal. It is even a command­ment, remember? And here we are, amidst tests and papers, crazy unpredictable weather and, for some, the unsatisfied desire called greed. 


Katie Sullivan 
guest column 
We proudly praise our Christian schooling. We teared when the Grotto caught fire. We support Oxfam and we rally against apartheid. And the list goes on. Yet despite all of our worthy efforts there are some who feel they don't have enough stuff. There are some among us who feel they can just take whatever they want, even ifit is not theirs. 
I can tolerate a great deal, but one thing I cannot tolerate by any means is someone stealing from others. Stealing is wrong and un­called for. It is a invasion ofprivacy. Stealing is a crime. Here we are, the beautiful Christian Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community; we really have nothing to complain of. We by far have more than most. None ofus are deprived, poor children. 

But despite everything, things are stolen. Shoes are "taken," dresses "disappear," books are "borrowed" and the list goes on. This is wrong and it all must end. At the expense of others someone's greed is satisfied. 
Whoever feels they have the right to take someone else's property is definitely in the wrong and I feel sorry for them. Their dreams must be empty and they obviously don't see the essential through their hearts. Whoever who feels that through stealing they have more, I hope their conscience pangs with guilt continually. I pity those who don't feel discomforted by these pangs, for they are the ones who really need help. 
Wouldn't it be nice if we could trust everyone? It is possible. I read about it once in a book. 
Katie Sullivan is an English writing and literature major atSaint Mary's. 


Quote of the day 
"No nation has a right to inter­meddle inthe internal concerns of another; everyone has a right to form and adopt whatever govern­ment they like best to live under themselves." 
George W asbington (1732-1799) Letter tojames Monroe, Aug. 25, 1796 


"ie~P.~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------M_o_n_d_ay_,_F_eh_r_uary___I_7,_1_9_B6 -p_a_g__
__ e9 


P.O.BoxQ 
-------------1 
it should be bronght to the surface.
Coverage of computers 

Here at the Christian university, I find theol· ogy professors who teach that the Old Testa­

is only the beginning 

ment is just a group of borrowed myths that have been adapted to the Bible. I find priests 
DearEditor: 

who accept evolution as fact. I hear ofpriests
I was pleased to see The Observer provid­teaching that Christ was not the Son of God,

Ing coverage of computing facilities available but a man used by God. I find the use of Cat· 

to Notre Dame students Oan. 28 Accent: hollc bibles that attempt to explain miracles 

"Computers make life easier for NO stu· as natural occurrences, and that these same 

dents.") Information on the availability of bibles are use in classes. 

computers and computing services is becom· I am appalled to discover this, and am even 

ing increasingly vital to University students. 

more disgusted to find it here at Notre Dame. I 
I was somewhat disconcerted, however, am led to believe Notre Dame is only a Chris· 

that despite Its headline, the article focused tian university on the surface. That under· 

entirely on just one lab, the Arts and Letters neath, where the distinction between a 

microcomputer lab. 

non-Christian and a Christian universityOne should not overlook the large PRIME should be made, Notre Dame conforms to the 
terminal network in the College of Engineer· non-Christian way ofteaching.

lng, the V AXes and workstations In the Col· I ask, is Notre Dame a Christian university in 

lege of Science, the microcomputer lab in the name only? 

College of Business Administration or the ter· 
David Fortin 
mlnal clusters throughout the campus which 
Flanner Hall 

connect to the IBM mainframe in the Comput· ingCcnter. have long been proud to say that we do not Spielberg's intention to convey s~ch an emo­

Forcing Rice into ND 
It might also be of interest for students to exploit our scholar/athletes in this way, and it tion. Perhaps it was Baltz who was uncom­know that the Computing Center not only would be a terrible shame not to maintain that fortable. This is understandable considering

is cruel and exploitive
provides the IBM mainframe and its timeshar· sensible and sensitive tradition. the carefully maintained environment of lng system, but also free consulting, free short To me, the article in The Observer showed sexual repression and unenlightenment that
DearEattor: 
I would like to comment on the article in hour microcomputer lab featuring IBM PC's, kind of preparation a high school student re· It is a sad commentary that such a healing, documents, free minicourses and the only 24· clearly that Holtz has not yet grasped what he no doubt finds himself a part of. 
the Feb. 13 sports page in which the academic qualifications (or possible lack thereof) of a
Apple lie's and Maclntoshes open to all mem· quires to make It as a Domer. He said he was life-giving, even salvific love as that between football recruit were discussed.
bers ofthe Notre Dame community. not even "familiar" with Rice's extremely low Shug and Celie · or between any two people of I do not wish to make any rash judgments 
The lab also boasts a variety of printers in· SAT score (roughly half that ofa typical Notre whichever sex · should cause one to be un­
about any i!J.dividual student, because I realize 
eluding an Apple Laserwriter and dozens of Dame student), and he claimed that the young comfortable. Indeed, it is Inappropriate. In software packages which can be checked out man's grades were "excellent." screenings of Spielberg's biggest box-office
that various sources not available to me may any time of day or night for usc In the lab If Rice's GPA was a 2.65, he probably was hit, audiences sat dabbing at their eyes as the
make up for Tony Rice's shortcomings as (requires a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's 10). described in The Observer. getting grades mostly ofB and C. (Remember, tender story of love between a boy and his I sincerely hope your Accent writer Is these are high school grades, not the Univer· alien developed. How odd that the concept of
For example, letters of recommendation from his teachers may suggest that he has
aware of the journalistic hazards of covering sity's.) I'm afraid if Holtz sincerely believes love across species lines is more acceptable only one part of a story under a headline that more academic potential than test scores or such grades in high school are "excellent" than the love oftwo flesh and blood humans of Implies the whole, and that the GPA currently show, or perhaps he is active in the same gender. 
from a Notre Dame perspective, he is sadly O'Shaughnessy article Is only the first In a mistaken. Brother Michael Dint
a wide variety of extracurricular activities series of articles covering this campus-wide (not just football) and so appears to be a well· For most students now successfully study· Notre Dame graauate student rounded person. However, Holtz's recruit·
topic. ing here, a high school B would have been 
ment of him may indicate some
Carole (Kelly) Havens okay and a high school C would have been 

Not having any choice
misconceptions about the life of a Notre
AssistantDirector poor. I think It is questionable whether a stu­Dame student. 
Computing Center dent whose level of "excellence" Is a high
Contrary to what some outsiders may is not a large sacrifice
school B-will be able to survive here academi­believe, we students care about more than 
cally. DearEditor:

Notre Dame is teaching 

just sports, and we do more than party. A Instead of declaring in bold print Lent began on Wedesday. For many, this is a Notre Dame student must often work quite newspaper headlines that we are not time to pray, make sacrifices and to give of

in non-Christian ways 

hard to keep up with classes. We attend chal· "lowering our standards," why don't we ourselves. For other people, it means about lenging lectures, work on labs, participate in 
DearEditor: simply lceep up those standards in the first two months full of Fridays of alfalfa sproutOnce again we observe another lenten class discussions, write more papers In a few ­
place? casserole and filet of breaded catfish. The season. As a Protestant freshman, I am ex· weeks than most high school students do in Patricia O'Connor policy of not serving meat on Fridays is unfair perlcncing meatless Fridays for the first time. four years and read many books and articles Pasquerilla East to all the non-Catholics and non-practicingThis Is only a minor irritation, and I was ex· on diverse topics. 
Catholics that attend the university. The idea pectlng this sort of thing before I came here, This Is not child's play for even a very bright of lent is to give something up, not to have It

Baltz uncomfortable 
since Notre Dame is the grl:at American Cat· student; to force such a life on someone who taken away. Ifmeat isn't offered then we aren't hollc university. is not equipped to handle it is cruel, and to do making a sacrifice by abstaining from it. It is 

with expression of love
However, there is an underlying problem so in order to obtain that person's athletic per­the same with Mass; Mass means a lot more that exists here; and as a fellow Christian, I feel formance Is exploitive. We at Notre Dame 
DearEditor: when you choose to go on your own, rather 
In his Feb. 7 movie review of "The Color than being dragged by your parents. I don't Purple", Tripp Baltz contended that the think that It is asking too much to have one aspect of lesbianism was handled well "in an dish with meat served at each meal. Ifthe uni· appropriately uncomfortable interchange versity won't allow us to make our own dcci· between Shug and Celie." Actually, the issue sions about eating meat on Fridays, how can oflesbianism was quite poorly handled. In the we expect more freedom with respect to ai· novel by Alice Walker, Celie's slowly deepen· cobol and parletals? ing relationship with Shug A very is the event Kevin Kane that changes Celie's life. Anyone who has seen Holy Cross Hall the film or given the book even a cursory reading must agree that the change wrought In Celie's life is a change for the better. Celie's transformation from a befuddled, benumbed, 

The Viewpoint 
bedraggled and abused girl to a woman ofdig­nity, strength and Integrity is the direct result of her lesbian relationship with Shug. This is 

Department
evident in Walker's novel. Spielberg, however, has essentially gutted the story of this most powerful bond. The issue of les· 

P.O. Box Q 
bianism was hardly handled at all. But maybe that's why Baltz thought it was well handled. 

Notre Dame, IN 
Furthermore, the so-called interchange bet· ween Shug and Celie was not uncomfortable in the least. Neither of the characters ex· 
46556 

hibited any discernible discomfort, nor was it 

P.O. Box (1, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The OtJserver IS the tndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admtntstration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos· Stble. Unsigned edttonals represent the opinion of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen· tanes, leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in·Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ... ::: ................... Peter C. Laches ,.;opy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 

Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
-

Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Monday, February 17, 1986 -page 10 



Sports Briefs 
ND Rugby Club workouts for anyone interested in playing Spring rugby will begin today at 4 p.m. on the second floor by The Monogram Room of the ACC. No experience Is necessary. but all attending should be dressed to run. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4 761. -Tbe Observer 
NVA Interhall tournaments will be held in 
team relay swimming, wrestling, and field hockey. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. All players must reside in the same hall. For information on entry fees and dates call NVA at 239-6100.-The Observer 
~ team water volleyball tournament will be held by the NVA. The double-elimination tourney will be open to anyone on campus, but rosters must include at least eight names. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call NVA. -Tbe Observer . 
:An open singles racquetball tourney 
will be held by the NVA. Separate elimination tournaments will be held for intermediate and advanced players, but entry is limited to the first 64 people that apply. Interested players should register at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday. For more information call NVA.-Tbe Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Blue Devils 
continued from page 16 
team has really matured -it really showed with the comeback at the end. 
"I think we'll get results later on. 
No matter where we go or who we 
have to play in the (NCAA)tourna­
ment in March, I think this team is 
ready. And I've always believed 
these things balance out, so maybe 
we'll win one like this later on." 
The Blue Devils, 25-2, jumped out 
to a 6-Q lead at the start· as the Irish 
struggled to get untracked. But a 
foul-line jump shot by Barlow, who 
lead the Irish with 21 points and six 
rebounds, tied it up at eight with 
15:35 left in the first half. 
The game stayed close until about three minutes remained In the half. Rivers lead the way for the Irish by scoring 1 0 ofhis 20 points. 
Duke went on a 10-2 run to finish 
the half with Dawkins exploding for 
six of those points, and the Blue 
Devils left the floor and their ap­
preciative home crowd with a 3 7-30 
lead at halftime. 
But the Blue Devils would not 
blow the Irish out -as perhaps they 
expected. 
Notre Dame closed to within 
three points on a Rivers layup with 
2:28 gone in the second half. A travelling call by the officials, after they had at first called a foul on Irish forward Donald Royal, gave Notre Dame the ball back with a shot to close within one. 
But Royal missed a short jumper in the lane, and Dawkins made a fast break layup and drew a foul on Price. Center Jay Bilas rebounded Daw­kinS' missed foul shot and put in a layup to push the lead back to seven at 43-36. 
Duke continued to aominate, and with 14:48 left to play it lead the Irish, 49-39. But even with the crowd noise reaching Its peak, Notre Dame kept its poise and remained within striking distance of the Blue Devils. 
"Even when we got down 10 points, I thought we had a good chance," said Phelps. "I liked the way we came back and didn't let the crowd affect us. 
"We shot 74 percent from the field in the second half, and that showed me we are finally condi­tioned to crowds. The thing that beat us was Duke hitting some great shots under pressure _late in the game." 
In fact, the Irish came within four points of the Blue Devils four times in the next 11 minutes, but each time Duke would come up with a clutch basket and stretch the lead back out. 
Patience and excellent shooting in the second half ( 89 percent from the line In addition to the 74 percent field-goal shooting) enabled Notre Dame to stay just behind Duke as the Blue Devils shot 60 percent them­selves in the second period. 
After a jumper and the slam by Dawkins gave the Blue Devils their eight-point lead with just over two minutes to go, a delay tactic nearly backfired on Duke. Four shots and the missed free throws gave Notre Dame a chance to mount its final charge. 
"We would always like to get great shots off the delay ifwe could, but you have to credit Notre Dame's defense down the stretch," said Duke head coach Mike Krzyzewski. "The more possessions that occur at the end of a game that we're leading is worse as far as we are concerned. 
"So, I'd do it the same way again. If we hit our free throws, everything looked great." 
But Dawkins, who played mag­nificently all day, dashed Irish hopes at the buzzer, topping off a seemingly perfect game. 
"I'm very proud ofour guys," said Krzyzewski, "especially since we played last night (a 72-70 win at North Carolina State). Johnny showed why I think he is the premier player in the ACC. He scored, played excellent man-to­man defense on Rivers and handled the team when (point guard) Tommy Amaker was out." 
Phelps agreed, but remained up­beat about his team's performance. 
"Dawkins showed today why he's a quality player," said the Irish coach. "H.e simply made a great play at the end. And Duke showed what it can be as a basketball team. 
"But we've got nothing to be ashamed of. This is what we need to get ready for March, and this year it's going to be up for grabs." 
Next up for the Irish is Manhattan Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden in New York. 
YMterdltfil Reeulta 
Duke 75, Notre Drlme 74 
Notre O.me (74) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Royal 30. 5-6 Q-1 2 5 10 Barlow 38 7-12 7-8 6 3 21 Kempton 19 Q-1 2-2 1 3 2 Hicks 6 o-2 o-oooo Rivers 40 6-16 4-4 3 2 20 Price 31 2-4 4-4 4 3 6 Dolan 29 4-5 3-3 4 5 11 Stevenson 5 1-2 o-o o 2 2 
200 27-48 20-22 20 23 74 
FG Pet. .563. FT Pet. -.909. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -16. Assists -6 (Rivers, Price 2). Technicals-none. 
Duke(75) 

M FG-A FT-A R F P Henderson 32 5-11 2-3 3, 3 12 Alarie 31 6-12 6-7 4 3 22 Bilas 23 1-2 1-3 6 1 3 Amaker 16 1-3 o-o 1 5 2 Dawkins 37 6-20 2-3 6 2 16 King 24 4-5 Q-1 0 3 6 Ferry 29 4-4 2-2 4 3 10 Snyder SQ-OQ-0010 
200 31-57 13-19 26 21 75 
FG Pet. .544. FT Pet. -.664. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -15. Assists -14 (Dawkins 4). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Duke 37, Notre Dame 30. Offi­cials-Rutledge, Prescott, McGrath (all SEC). A-6,564. 
Tht• Ohsert·a :'l;otrt: Dame: olfilt· lotatt·c..l on tht· th1rc..l floor of l.a~ortum· ~tuc..lt·nt Ct·ntt·r. anc:ptH·Ia'"fkc..l ac..ln·rt"'"~ from l) am unt11 f p m. \lonc..IJ\ throu~h Fric..IJ\ Tbe Ohserr·er ~amt \ian·, offin·. lot Jlt·c..l on tht· th>rc..l floor of 
lla~~ar Collt·~·· ( t"ntt:r. JtTt:P" da"ifkc..l' from 12 .~0 p m until -~ p m . \ton· 
c..la\ thou~h Fric..la\ lkac..llint· for nt·xt·c..IJ\ tla'"fkc.J, ;, -~ p m All da'"fkc..l' 
mu,t ht· prt·pa>c..l. t:ithn m p.-r">n or h' mall ( har~l"" Ill n·nh llt:r fht: charac 
-





Classifieds 
tc:r' n c..la\·. 

LOST: ONE PAIR WHITE WEIGHT LIF­75 FIAT Spyder gd traRiporl, gd engine, YOUNG TRAVELLERS NEWSLETTER! Coming loon: ... Aa The C8rcla Tum TING GLOVES. SOUTH QUAD OR ACC tirea, muffler, needl bodywork. cal 283-(Under tha Dome)
lncludea:800 no.; travel paMner
[ NOTICES 

30JAN PLEASE CALL CHRISTINE 3784 Diane and Eric -alfeira -Diane and Steve 
3472 anytime eervlce;featur81 on exotic OVERSEAS DAVE FLANAGAN ................................................................ budget travel, work, atudyl Send check WEEKEND 
D., Eric and Paula. Diane marriee Chuck, Found:Pelr ol glau. with bent, brown 
Chuck hu an afielr with o-n (niceTyping Avllilabla ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N.• P.O. Box 3887, New
framea on walk by admln building. Cal 
K8)1chain). Steve K. and Kril alter Kria'l 13352.
287-4082 Haven, CT. 06525 Come watch him get ugly!!! 
affair with Tim. Who carea, Kria il making
................................................................
................................................................ 
TICKETS money. Tim rnaniee a dog. Scott groaaea

Thank you St. Jude ·EM HAPPY BIRTHDAY PATRICIA and con­LOST: S DINING HALL, BLUE BACK­out • beuti..ty. Steve D invitee family
........................................................ gralll on your meO-IChool lntervi-!
PACK WITH NOTEBOOK, TENNIS over. lnceat? Yuck. Steve D. takee family Thank you St. Jude for watching over me Remember, when you're a dockw youSHOES, SWEAT PANTS. KEYS. 
on fun v-tion and Di meta Steve D. PLEASE CALL 283-25971F HAVE INFO. 
and my family. ·PAG woo"! be able to drink(u much). Enjoy it while being spoiled by Chuck in Europe.
Need GAl for Depaul or Dayton gamee. while It Iaiii & let"a make thia a b-day 
Steve D. and Di cuddle in Europe, but DiiUT'"'TYP!Nii""'"iiBMCi"""'C.W. If you picked up my wallet reoently, go Chuck and Di don't divorce-Chuck ia too Cal Chad 3684. you"l forget. Love, Kely 
Miranda,lhead and keep the calh & picturee ol my 
fun. Kril, Steve K. and kidl rM&I G8rylliatn...but pleua return my driver'l 
NeedGufor Depaul game cal Jeff 2248 I'A be there u 10on u I find my sword.
-COil-2»71101. Colina for an Hour Magazine intervi-­
................"Am;·e;:u·iiDTI................ ................................................................ Ferdinand
Ncer.a 10 that I can go out a time or two Family ol the Y-. Di, jealous, nil to
NEED DAYTON TIX. 2 STUD. & 2 G.A.I DISCOVER O.UDI my tat eemaater Senior yee~. lhoot Kria and Steve K., but it'1 Scott and
~FrMCialyping ...OC. OA4 G.A.1. CALL CHRI$-1135. 
................................................................ ••••••••••••••••H~·;;;:.;·;;;;;;;;•i•••••••••••••ooo 
Kria together. Kria lhOOIII Tim with Di'l
phone ......... change ................................................................ Omllo.­
LOST: GOLD NECKLACE WITH PEN­gun ·c:auae of toothpute cap. BiN and Di'l
27NI131 Top$ for Dayton GAa. Cell John 2368. A rich alumnue n-2 tickelll (student or O.....,IZIIIIONI Me.tlng
DANT THAT HAS DIAMONDS IN IT. IF cute kidl meet Paula and Steve K."a
GA) for the Dayton game in March. He'e Moncllly F*"ary 17FOUND PLEASE CALL 272-Q253. 
healthy kidl and laugh at Kria (lhe looks an engineer willing to pay big bucka to eee 7:00PM 
r~---~;;i~···i;y···;··i;;;;;;i··~ REWARD I funny pregnant.) Steve K. and Di (who
u1 pound the Ayn into the COUI11 0m11u--.om... 
................................................................ 
lhot Steve D.). Hera cornee Scott-out ollalllly? I have and I MR1 to do aomalhlng I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT (2nd floor of LaF-...) 
TICKET FOR DAYTON. LET MY bed. Steve K. toet In h..ra and Di got aaboutII. Cal Joe 111272-5809 andt.l him Call Mary Elan at 283-3855 or leave a 
youratory. PARENTS SEE THE GAME. CALL 2602 rneaage at 239-5303. 69, doeln't matter, Kria doeln't get it.
I 

FOR RENT AND ASK FOR DREW. Silly tuned for the next exdting epiaode,
....................................................... 

when Di and Kria 118ft buli._ making
....................... 
Sernl-furnilhed houee good ~: Hungry? Cal YELLOW SUBMARINE at red heartl that tick-Steve actiM market· 
ing cheirman and travail with humidifier.
LOST/FOUND I 

272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12am
hood after 4 -255-3684t2n-3804. RA...EAit SllU UVESIU Mondlly-Thur8day; 5pm-2am Friday; 
Scott11Udi81 peych. tol88whybeutiality occuraonWindeorPkwy. TimieonLetter­
.:os;:;·o;;id"~":;;Hh';··;;;;;·in a NO::st:ic'"St;;;;;;;;·:·~;:··s;;;;;;;;··;;;;;;. PERSONALS 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday 
man lhow to Imitate Fat Boy's and Chuckav.;lable for next f... 4BR Fur­
h..r,IORieWh-,_North Dining Hal. eeekl revenge on Kathleen.
nllhed,lnaut.ted,Great Loca­
11'1 vary Important to mal It found, ~ Good Monster Cool<ie
tion,Raaponllve Landlord. Groupe ol4 or c;;;;;~·s;;;;·FAi:sr'AFF·&·HAi:i~·c;;;;;;g;; Mace, ...Kym,2147. How long Ia 18 monthe? 
5. For more Info cal Geofi at 288 7278. ···~··;·~;;;;;;·i~ ..~~--~~;;;;;h:··;;;ii:Ni~ on Feb.20 Tickelll $20.00 in 309 O'Shag . 
Let"uee.

.:O&"T;·i.liiN":s·N·.·o:·oa::o·liiNO':;;iii;'i;:,i. enough, even hla aoulm•t• ba<;q •w•y.
2~.";i.'Cd"272~6i'3.'""'"""""""··········· A Beach dunking & Time capaule 
lettinQ him MH!e, wtllnQ to walt •nother

tiala T .A.D. In man'l rootn on 111 lloor liM'S WINTER FESllVAL IS C()ll. S Until September, more TC ...ECAUSE OF THE DIVERSE CONDI­
................................................................ 1/feUme before • newhello.
Stepan Cllamlny Bullclng (north lkla). lNGIII 044&1rene T"IOHS OF HUMANS, IT HAPPENS P'-...3556 FEB. 24-MARCH 1 N The beginning ol... THAT SOliE ACTS AJIE VIRTUOUS TO
-Richard Bec:h, BEACH PARTY-SKI TRIP-BOWLING­D A beautiful moment SOliE PEOPLE, AS APPIIOPIIATE

WANTED

.:;;;;~;·A·~~;;;··~·~u;;iji;;i~ Tllalltlclga ~F-• 
ICESKATING J The market, Pretty fllh AND SUIT.u&.E TO THEM, WHILE THE Nlau. Sc. on 2/7. P'-...3528 UNDERGRAD NITE AT SENIOR F Valentine' I eeduction SAME ACTS ARE Ill~ FOR OT­
oii"EMEAI":iou::s;;;;;;;;;;·y;:;;;;;d: 
BAR-AND MOREl M Omlett81 & ch-sand. HERS, AS INAPPftOPIIIIATE TO L&'T .IEHIND IN 206 OR 303 Cuahlng 
Europa, S.A-., Aulllnlla, Aala. All A Seattle & Ughtning THEM." A IIESSAQE MOUOHT TO on Monday, ..._, 8:55 -10:05, one 4 n.lda. IIIQ0.2000 mo. ...,._...,., SYLLOGISM ................................................................ M Babyeitting, JAMS goodbye YOU •v ST. THOIIM AQUINAS AND aactlon nolebook oonl8inlng al my nocea. F,.. Info. Write IJC, PO 1b 52-1No4, To all the men we love And d the men J $100 phone billa •v GAYS a LU81ANS AT NO/SIIC, 
I ldnda need It back Mke laat. Hyou could eor-dallier, CA 1121211. M•Jor Premlae: who love ua The men we love Aren't the J Cracker Jack Surpriee P.O. BOX 194, NOTRE DAME, IN 41555. help me find It, It would be gNdy ap­God 11 a custom. men who love ua So to hell with men­A Waterekiing etc. 
JQCialad. calf 24n or 2476 alter11, • A;;;;;;;;;i~i;;;;i;;d·;~·g;;;;g·i~-p~;;;;~·u;;j: here'l to ue! OFFICIAL TOAST OF THE S Chi.-Moving in for Kevin. Or )ull tum it In to Lolli and Minor Premiae:
vtnlty, Weal Lafayette who would Hke to NOTRE DAMSELS 0 A week held captive Your llackdoor to 1118yfng allvel Found. ride along (at about 80 mph), 1'1 be going A cullom i1 an old, old habit. ................................................................ N Turl<ey w/ EVERYONE 
COMING SOON ... SOONER THAN YOU D Magical X-mu HOlDER IN DUE COURSE. 
jull about every weekend but this one . 
.:os"T:"i.liiN":s··N·:o:··c-ws··R"iNil..CiN 

Give me a call If you'd Uke to be PaM of thla Concluaion THINK... THE SAGA ... THE WAR "NO J Turning "4" MONDAY. FEB 10 IN FIRST FLOOR Therefore, God is an old, old habit. FUN" F Happy V-dey al>eit late 
total new experience. Gertie: SMC 4429 (I MENS ROOM OF STEPAN CHEMISTRY wiM try to be more grammatically correct In a man who ia torn between two Ioven and • I love you, Today is COLLEEN MURPHY'S 2111 HALL. THE RING IS GOLD WITH AN the car.) • Calvin Miller, ..LL lent even here yet Sugar Boogar Birthday! So call the new Senior Bar 
AQUA STONE AND BEARS THE INI­TlleSI,.. ................................................................ Woman and wiah her a good one at 5018! 
TIALS TAD '88. IF FOUND PLEASE NONI: MUCHA$ FELICIDADES EN TU CALL TOMAT3556. oAFi.H"olisii;·c:oi:o..ae·ii;;·"&"Liouoo·. CUMPLEANOS. TE OUIEREN MUCHO, lmw.tad In tutortng a South llend Happy 2111 Birthday COLLEEN 
CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 MAMI, PAP!, ABUELO, TATA, ANI. echool kid? The NSHP atiM h• MURPHYI It's finally here; LEGALITY! 
-...-;"F;;;;;;·~:;;;;di~i~"ih~;ib;;iid;;Q', FOR SALE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
opanlngalll Kennedy Gncla School on Tueeday morning Ia not going to be a 
an 181124 petnting depicting an llbllract .HAPPv''BiFirHoAv.oei.iN"is·e·si.liili.. Mon.-yo.WadnaaMy8 from 12:15 1:45. pretty BightiHeve a great dey! figure on ablack background . ...._..of­Apple /// computer. 256K atandlird con­L;'i;;jj'c;.t;;;jj~';;;;~-k;-HAPPY BIRTHDAY DENNIS E SMITH P'-ceM Tom 111 118e 01 Alicia Ill 
fered lor return of petnting or information fig. Applecare contract good through Sep­an lnt.nt.lt you know of Myona who Ia HAPPY BIRTHDAY DENNIS E SMITH 21117. Sophomore Parente Weekend: Final r.ulting In 1111 return. tember 1986. 3 EZ Plecea aoftwlre. For conaldarlng placing a chid lot adop­HAPPY BIRTHDAY DENNIS E SMITH deadline for ticket sale is Feb. 18 In Stu­Cal Paul Mclean 289-5198 more information oontact Mark at 239-tion, P'-call callacl (217) M?..W. HAPPY BIRTHDAY DENNIS E SMITH "If I'm auch a catch, why lan't there dent Activitiee Office. Table lign-upe are 7252. aftar7p.m. anyone filhlng?" Feb. 17and 18 from 5:00 to 7:00in HCC 


Monday, February 17, 1986-page 11
The Observer 
Men's interhall basketball playoffs arrive, Morrissey number one seed 
By MICHAEL nt:liAN 
Sports Writer 
For six men's interhall basketball teams, it's playoff time. Last week marked the end of the regular season. For the playotJS, team records no longer matter because every team now plays in a double elimination playoff system. 
Representing the ACC division are Morrissey and Alumni I. From the: Big 10 It wi11 be Sorln and Dillon II, while the Big Sky division will bring the winner of the Grace­Keenan preliminary game and Plan­ner lA. 
Games played over the last week 
helped to determine: each teams 
playoff status. In the Big Sky division, 
Dillon II earned its playoff spot by 
beating league champ Sorln as wc:ll 
as Alumni II during the final week. 
Because of this Impressive closing 
stretch, Dillon was given a bye in the 
first round in accordance with its 
number two seeding. 
Sorin, who defeated Howard in Its 
final game, was given the number six 
seed In the: tournament. 
Morrissey gained the: title: of ACC 
division champ as it defeated Flan­
ner II In its final game:. If Morrissey 
had lost the game, there would have 
been a tie between Alumni I and 
Morrissey. 
As a result of a dominating season 
In which they never suffered a loss, 
Morrissey gained a bye and the 
number· one seed in the: tourna­
ment. Alumni, as number-four seed, 
will face the winner of the Grace­
Keenan preliminary game. Ken 

Leadership 
continuedfrom page 16 
from the point Jn Mary Gavin to break the press in the second half." 
The '5·6 sophomore dished out LO assists in a full 40 minutes ofplaying time, and teamed with 5·9 freshman Diondra Toney in the backcourt for most of the second half to get the ball up the court against tl\e quick Titans. Gavin was pleased with their success In controlling the tempo of the game after appearing a little rattled at the end ofthe first half. 
"We knew it was going to come and their girls were really quick," she said. "I'm glad that Dlondra and I handled It well. 
"In the first half I think the press picked up the pace too much for what the coach wanted us to play. She didn't want us to play that quick a pace. We talked it over in the locker room and I think we handled it a little better In the second half." 
Trena Keys added nine points for the Irish while Lynn Ebben, Heidi Bunek, and Toney added eight each. 
Detroit was sparked throughout the contest by '5·9 junior Cassandra Pack, who pumped in her 18 points 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Thomas Edison, do Vinci, Michelangelo, and Henry Ford all could have worked for Wallace. 


Innovators. Problem solvers. Creative thinkers. Independent, self-motivated achievers who per­SEWered until ultimate triumph. These are the qualities that made them successful. 1hev can do the same lor you at Wallace. 

SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
Entry Level 
If you have theabove qualities, thenwe're Interested In talking to you about a career with Wallace. 
We will be oa campuslloldlaau Ope• Roue oa haday, February II, to d.IKaa Sales!Markedaa careen wltll w.u.ce. AU,shldeata are lavltecl to attead. We ril be aaeedaaat Ualnnlty aab, apper loaqe, 7-9 pm. Retreshme~~ta will be .ened. Ifanablfo to attelld, plait 
.ead yoar resume or alii Grea Butler at (215) 125-1430. 2350 E. Devon Avenue 
Suite 217 Des Plaines, IL 60018



"'!!~E~!::~~~~. 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
Schuerman, the captain of the Alumni Dogs, believes that his team has a realistic shot of winning the tournament because of the team's balance. 
"The fact is that we have ten good basketball players," said Schuerman. "All the players on the team are ap­proximately the same height which allows us to play any combination without losing any rebounding advantage from one line to another. 
"We play a man-to-man defense where we do a lot of switching. All the players like to play an up-tempo game; a fast break game would be to our advantage." 
In the Big Sky division, Flanner lA, despite losing to Cavanaugh, 64-62, won the divisional title. The second place team in the division has yet to be decided as both Keenan and Grace I ended the season with identical divisional records. The two teams witl face each other to decide which team will make the playoffs as the number five seed. 
Eric Grasberger, Flanner's team captain, believes this week's loss to Cavanaugh was just a minor setback. 
"The team's loss to Cavanaugh was just unbelievable," said Grasberger. "They were hitting all their shots from the field whereas we were not. Even though this defeat was right before the playoffs, I still think that If the team plays well, Planner could be tough In the end." 
Morrissey and Sorln are the pre­tournament favorites. Schuerman believes Morrissey is the team to beat. Grasberger feels Sorln could dominate, but this will depend on the team Sorin puts on the floor. 
from everywhere on the court. Mary Kay Whalen added 12 for the Titans and Brenda Hawkins came off the bench for 10, but it was Pack who keyed the Detroit press and came up with the big points. 
DiStanlslao coul!i only praise the speedster after the game. 
"Cassandra Pack is a great, great player," she said. "She has so many dltferent skills. She's a great leaper, she's strong, she has good court· sense, she's a good shooter and a good rebounder. Where Cassandra was on the floor dictated what defense we were going to be ln. That's how much regard we have for her." 
Notre Dame outshot Detroit 46.8 percent to 31.8 percent, but the game was much closer than those figures and the final score indicate. 
"It was another one of those games that was up for grabs," DIS­tanlslao said. "Nobody had control. At some points it was totally out of everyone's control. 
"It was a good game for us to win because, despite what we were doing wrong on our end ofthe floor, we were able to force them into tur­novers and then capitalize." 
IRISH ITEMS -Freshman guard 
"Morrissey is definitely the best team going into the playoffs," said Schuerman. "As a team, they play ex· tremely hard. Morrissey can beat you In so many dltferent ways. When we played them earlier in the year, they used strong free throw shoot­ing ~own the stretch to beat us. They are a sound club; they are the team to beat." 
Grasberger feels Sorin also has a strong team. 
"The main question right now is whether or not certain football players will be playing for the Sorin team," said Grasberger. "If Steve Beuerlein and Rick Dibernardo play, Sorin will be a very tough team to beat. Sorin will have a definite size 
advantage  that  could  prove  
detrimental  to  other  teams'  
chances."  

In other ACC games last week, Dil­lon I gained a forfeit victory over OC 
I. Grace II defeated OC Bombers 72­
59. In the Big Sky division, Keenan defeated Zahm 66-42 and Stanford 61-'50. 
St. Ed's beat OC Slugs and OC Crime '56-45 and 61-'54 respectively. In addition, OC Crime salvaged a 68­61 win over Stanford. The Big Ten division saw OC II forfeit a game apiece to Howard and Holy Cross, Fischer forfeit to Pangborn, and Dil­lon II assure its playoff spot by defeating Alumni II. 
With the regular season past, the playoffs begin tonight at 7:00p.m. in Gym number 2 at the ACC with Alumni taking on the winner of the Grace-Keenan game to be followed by Planner IA-Sorin at 8:00p.m. 
Diondra Toney's eight points came in her first start for the Irish, as she logged 35 minutes of floor time. . . Trena Keys' layup with I 0:41 remaining was career field goal number 61 7, surpassing Shari Matvey's record of 616 set between 1979 and I983. 
S.turdlly'a'a RMUita Notre O.me 67, Detroit 56 Notre Dllme (67) 
II FO-A  n-A  R  F  P  
Keys  25  4·11  1-3  2  4  9  
Toney  35  3-8  2·2  9  3  8  
Botham  26  4-5  2·5  7  4  10  
Gavin  40  1·5  3-5  2  4  5  

Ebben 252-64-4518 Willis 34 5-6 9-10 5 0 19 Bunek 12 3-6 2·2 5 t 31 Brommeland 3 ()..() ()..() 0 ~ 0 200 22-47 2341 38 17 67 
FG Pet. • .468. FT Pet. • .742. Team rebounds • 3. Turnovers -25. Assists -16 (Gavin 10). Technicals-1 (DiStanialao). 
Detroit (56) II FG-A n-A R F P 
Pack 40 7-19 4-5 5 3 18 Whalen 12 5-11 2-2 7 4 12 Mald 20 2-4 1-1 9 ' 3 5 Nealy 20 1-7 ()..() 2 1 2 Smith 33 2-12 1-2 2 3 5 Hawkins 15 2-7 6-6 9 2 10 Pearce 12 2-6 0-0 4 3 4 McCartha 70-00-0000 158 21-66 14-16 38 18 56 
FG Pet. .318. FT Pet. -.875. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers -27. Assists -10 (Nealy 3). Technicals-none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 24, Detroit 24. Olfi­clals-Dick Lambert, Fred Cohen,. A-. 

J 
Al'l'boco 

Indiana guard Steve Alford, shown here against Purdue, broke out ofa foul shooting slump by bttttng 14-of-15 performance at tbe line against Obto State in Indiana's 84-75 victory. See tbe story below. 


Alford hits free throws as Indiana beats OSU 
COLUMBUS, Ohio · Indiana guard Steve Alford says he's been in a slump at the free throw line lately. Coming from a player w:ho's making 
84.9 percent of his attempted foul shots, that's something. 
Alford scored 32 points and made 14-of-1 5 free throw tries to spell the dltference yesterday in an 84-7'5 Big Ten Conference college basketball victory at Ohio State. 
"I liked my free throw shooting today," said the 6-2 junior. "I've been in a little slump. But I told a reporter the other day that I thought the slump would end here." 
Indiana coach Bob Knight welcomed Woody Hayes, Ohio State's former football coach, into his locker room after the game. 
"He talked about listening. They'll think about it now when they go home tonight. Their coach (Knight) has been saying that for four years, but they haven't listened yet," laughed Knight. 
"Obviously, it was a very good game for us. I really thought we were in trouble when we were not able to maintain a 10-polnt lead just before the end of the half, but we came out in the second half and played well." · 
Indiana, which led 38-34 at the half, built that shon-lived 10-point lead on Alford's free throw marksmanship, including four in a row durlitg a strange play that 
Notre Dame A venae Apartments 
NOWBENTING FOilFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 234-6647/156-5716 CaiiAnydme 
turned the game around late in the 
half. 
"That's what did it," said Ohio State's Dennis Hopson. "I won't say it was because of the technical, but from then on." 
The Hoosiers moved to 17-'5 over­
all and 9·3 in the Big Ten, one-half 
game behind league-leading Mic­
higan. Ohio State dropped to 12-10 

-
and6-6. 
Alford scored 19 points in the second half, but it was a six-point flurry in the first half that gave the Hoosiers the lead for good. 
Alford hit a pair of free throws to draw Indiana even at 22-22.,After a free throw by Ohio State's Hopson with 5:47 left In the half gave the Buckeyes their final lead of the day, Alford made four consecutive free ·throws, two of which were the 
result ofa technical foul. 
Alford was fouled by Kip Lomax at 
the 5:3 7 mark, was awarded two foul 
shots, and hit his first free throw. 
Ohio State's Brad Sellers then was 
called for a dead-ball technical for 
throwing an elbow after the shot. Al­
ford hit his second shot and both 
ends of the technical to make it 26­
23. 
Indiana never trailed again, taking a 38·34 lead at the half. Ohio State got as' close as three points several times in the second half, but Indiana hit 16 of 20 free throws down the stretch to pull away. 


The Observer

-. Saint Mary's drops one to Franklin but defeats illness, Bethel College 
ByLINDA BARY 
Sports Writer 
Coming offofa humiliating loss to Franklin College, 72-40, Thursday night, the Saint Mary's basketball team pulled together to defeat Bet­hel Colege, 64-35, Saturday at An­gela Atheletic facility. 
Leading the Belles against Franklin College in scoring was senior co-captain Beth Kreher, who scored 16 points. Following close behind was junior co-captain Kris Pantelleria contributed ten points. Kreher and Pantelleria are among the few varsity players who have managed to escape illness during the season. 
Outstanding sophomore, Tammye Radke has not been as for­tunate. Radke, who is ranked num­ber two in the district in scoring, was unable to play the last two games because of illness. Stephanie Duke, Sheila Zenter, and Tricia Hug also missed the Franklin College game. 
Despite the absence ofseveral key 
. players, Saint Mary's head coach Marvin Wood did not give any excuses for the Belles ;Performance against Franklin College. 
"We played a very strong team," said Wood. "Franklin College's 


Bubka clears 19 feet to win event, fails to set pole vault indoor record 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -Sergei Bubka cleared 19 feet, 0 inches yesterday to win the pole vault at the Bally In­vitational Track and Field Meet, but failed in three attempts to crack the world indoor best. 
Bubka was the only one of three pole vaulters who have set the world indoor best in the past six weeks to

-compete in the meet. Bubka, who holds the outdoor world record at 19-8 feet 4 inches, missed three times at 19-5 feet, 4 inches. He said through an interpreter that he missed because he isn't used to the surface. "I am physically very strong now, but I have to repeat that I am not used to this wooden surface," he said. "The runway was too short for me and it prevented me from setting the new world record." Bubka cleared 19-0 on his third at­tempt at that height. Billy Olson, owner of the indoor best at 19-5 feet, 12 inches, was too tired to compete after Thursday's games, said his coach, TomJennings, executive director of the Pacific Coast Club. joe Dial decided not to compete because his poles were still in New 


f*****************1
f DISTINGUISHED STUDENT ~ 
: AWARD i
i Th• Notr•Da••Alu•nl Aaoelatlon will ••aee•ptlna no•l..tl.., : : fro• F••ruar~ ~4•aa for th•Sth annual Dlstln,..lsh••Stu•.at ~ -tc A war•. Th• Dlstlnaulsh•• Stu••nt A war• was er•t.• to honer•• : outstan•l•l••nlorstu•••tat th• UniN1"slt~ •a••• on th•followlnt : erlt.rla: 
...

: 
1) Service to Notre Dame, 2) Service to the Community, and, 
3) Good Academic Standing. 
i Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on t the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for :; Social Concerns, and at Campus Ministry Office in thP : Memorial Library • 


-tc Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Fell. 38, .1986. : 
: ••*****************************************•-*******~ 
York, said Neal Robinson, organizer. champion Stephanie Hightower in ofthe meet.. 6.99 seconds. Hightower, who won In the women's 50-meter hurdles, the event three of the past four 
Gayle Watkins edged defending years, was timed in 7.00 seconds. 



a .._a.
Spring Film Series 
~._----------------~~------------------~ 
The Dept. of Communication and Theater.in conjunction with The Kellogg Institute, present the ~econd of six films in the Latin American Film Series  La Strada A deceptively su'nple tale of a brutish strongman (Anthony Quinn) taking a simple-minded. but de­voted waif (Giulietta Masino) with him as he travels the countryside. Mon. 9:00  
Union Pacific  
Cecil BDeMille's sprawling epc  
western about the build1ng of the  
Improper Conduct  transcontinental railroad. Action  
scenes include a spectacular train  
A powerful documentary con­ wreck. With Bartx:iraStanwyck  
trasting the romantic myth of the  and Robert Preston. Tues. 7:30  
Cuban Revolution with the gnm picture of Cuban society that is be1ng reported by the enormous tide of refugees. A critique of the lett from the lett.  DEATHWATCH has been pulled from distribution. In 1ts place will be shovvn Bertrand Tavernier's LET JOY REIGN SUPREME A lavish, fascinating recreation  
of pre-revolutionary France in all  
Mon. 7:00  its Rabelaisian splendor Sump­ 
tuous settings, exquisite photo- 
l Qraphy, Fri. 7:30&9:45  
t::==P-' II !IIIII~ ore showr. in the Annenberg Auditonum in the Snite·==:::::il  

record is 17-6. We started out strong but we were overpowered with their size and their overall strength as a team." Although the team was still fighting off sickness and playing without the starter Tammye Radke, the Belles found enough strength to beat Bethel College by a large mar­gin. 
Kreher lead once again in scoring with 18 points. Wood was very pleased with Kreher's performance. 
"Kreher played well defensively and offensively against a tough girl," he said. "She didn't even let her girl get the ball. She really took their best girl out ofthe game." 
Wood also mentioned that fresh­man Kellie O'Brien played ex­tremely well. O'Brien had four assists along with freshman teammate, Laura Danch. 
Jennifer Harte, another promising freshman, was the Belles top rebounder with seven, followed by Zenter and Kreher who both had six. 
By half time, Saint Mary's already had a strong lead over the Pirates, 32-17, even though the Belles were not playing at their usual level of in­tensity. 
"I am a litde disappointed that we didn't play with the intensity we need," said Wood prior to the second half. Since we do not have 
the size, we can't afford to play wit­
hout intensity." 
Wood also mentioned that Bethel 
College had improved since Saint 
Mary's had scrimmaged them earlier 
in the season. 
During the second half, several new faces appeared on the court who helped Saint Mary's defeat the Pirates. 
"It was nice to have a game where everyone got a chance to play," said Wood. "It's a hard thing to realize that these girls come to practice every day and work just as hard.as those who play all the time." 
Pantelleria expressed the same thought. "Everybody got to play," she said. "Duke and Zenter played really well especially since they have both been sick." 
Wood is not looking forward to the end of the season. 
"This group has a real together­ness," he said. "Coaching basketball is my recreation. It's really enjoyable for me, and I hope it's enjoyable for rpemtoo." 
The Saint Mary's basketball team will be playing their last home game dn Feb. 19 at 7:00 p.m. against Aquinas College. The Belles will finish up the season at Purdue University-Calumet Feb. 20 at 7:00 p.m. 

Monday, February 17, 1986-page 12 

APPhoto
Beer Brawl 
Members ofthe Vancouver Canucks move in on an unidentified spectator, center, as security guards race down the· aisles at Madison Square Garden to restore order. Play was stopped after several New York Ranger fans threw beer and soda on the Van­couver bench. The ~angers won the game, 5-2. 

Bodine takes Daytona 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Geoff Bodine outdueled Dale Earnhardt Sunday to win the crash-marred Daytona 500 NASCAR stock car race. 
Bodine took the lead for the final time 33 laps from the end and was holding off the determined Earnhardt when the latter suddenly slowed and drove into the pits for gas on lap 197 ofthe 200-lap race. 
When Earnhardt roared back onto the track, his engine blew, allowing Bodine to cruise to his first victory at Daytona International Speedway and the fourth ofhis career. 

SPRING 

TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare 
t.1 Midway Airport One WaySZOOOaound TripSJr 
AvaUable february 15th tbroqllllarcll Jist. Tickets purchased asa•le thn......t Ul6 
INSIDE ( ) ~~•
INDIANA .. ~-7J2J LOCAL (Dt) 674-otJ Or call year tra.elqeat 
~ 
l. 

Theater Production 
with Rd1ert Stonnont as Prosper<) 
Dilecteclbl'-Pilkinton  
THURSDAY FEBR/.Jil.RY27  
FRIDAY FEBRU4RY28  Washington Hall  
SATURDAY MARCH 1  Tlieatre  
Tickets  
$6 Main Floor  S5 Balrony  $4 Sluderlts  
THURSDAY MARCH6  Available at  
FRIDAY MARCH 7  Washington Hall Athletic & Convocation Center  Gate 10  
SATURDAY MARCH 8  ~Rates Available  
For TICket Information Ca//1219) 239·5134  
219) 239-5957  
8:10p.m.  

Bodine won a stock-car record $192,715. That broke the record of $185,500 set in this race last year by Bill Elliott. Terry Labonte wound up finishing a distant second, 11.26 seconds behind Bodine's Chevrolet Yonte Carlo SS, followed by defend­ing Winston Cup champion Darrell Waltrip. Labonte drove a new Oldsmobile Delta 88,while Waltrip and Eatnhardt also were in Chev­rolets. 
Bobby Hillin Jr. was fourth and Benny Parsons was fifth. 
The late battle between Bodine and Earnhardt lent drama to what had been until that point a race high­lighted by attrition. 
r----------------------------------·--------------~----------------~----------------~-------~-------------­
The Observer 

Irish wrestlers take two against Marquette, IU 
By EDJORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
1be Notre Dame wrestling team took a decisive step towards its goal of a .•;oo or better season with two big wins over the weekend. A 24-1 5 victory at Indiana on Saturday followed by yesterday's 37·6 wipeout against Marquette In the ACC pit upped the Irish's record to 7-6 and put a smile on Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann's face. 
"Our goal was to finish the season even," said McCann, "and, with one weekend left In the regular season, we definitely can accomplish that. I was concerned going down to IU. They have a similar program to ours except for greater experience. They have some seniors in key positions, and I was really happy with the way we handled them." 
A quick start for the Irish In the lower weight classes set the tone at Bloomington as the first four Notre Dame wrestlers won. The biggest boost was freshman Pat Boyd's I 1·1 decision over IU's fifth-year senior and most successful mat man, John Dehart. 
"Pat beating their best guy really set them back and gave us an edge," said McCann. "They seemed to lose their confidence after that, and we took It to them the rest of the way. We out hustled them at the begin· ning and wore them down near the end." 
Other strong performances were 
lUrned in against the Hoosiers by 
Dan Carlin, Jerry Durso, Chris 
Geneser, and John Krug. All won 
decisions which built up a healthy 
lead before Indiana rallied to score 
the last nine points of the match 
with a decision and a pin. 
McCann's fears of a letdown 
against Marquette were unfounded. 
The Irish dominated the 
lightweights again and led 31·0 
before Krug lost 3·0 in the 177 
pound division. 
Carl Hildlnger began the after· 
noon with an Impressive 13-4 win ·over the Warrior's Kevin Giglinto. Durso won by forfeit, Boyd by deci· slon, and Carlin and Geneser com­
pleted their weekend sweeps with 
pins. 

Ron Wisniewski and Dan Carrigan 
won close one and two point 
matches respectively, and Dave Hel­
mer pinned Mike Avani to round out 
the Irish scoring. 
Although McCann was somewhat 
disappointed with Krug's, as well as 
heavyweight Spero Karas' losses on 
Sunday, he was pleased with his 
wrestlers' overall performance. 
"With the schedule we've played I 
like our position right now," said 
McCann, "We have a real challenge 
next Saturday at Nebraska against 
BYU and the Huskers. Both of those 
schools have excellent wrestling 
traditions. It will be our last com· 
petition before the regionals. It 
should be great." 

Pavin wins with eagle taking Hawaiian Open 
HONOLULU · Corey Pavin used an eagle·3 to destroy Tom Watson's hopes and then hung on for a two­stroke victory yesterday In tl1e Hawaiian Open GolfTournamr:nt. 
Pavln, 26, came from three strokes back with a wind-blown 66, 6-undcr-par, and claimed !]Is third victory In as many years on the PGA tour with a 272 total, 16-undcr-par. 
The triumph was worth 190,000 from the total purse of 1500,000 and pushed Pavln's earnings for the season to 1103,907. 
Watson, the third-round leader who was seeking an end to a lengthy non-winning string, simply couldn't keep pace with Pavin's front-nine putting heroics in the gusty winds that raked the Waialae Country Club course. 
Pavln scorched the front with a 31 that included three birdie putts from more than 20 feet, then applied the clincher on the par·'i 13th. 
The slightly built young man threw his second shot In about two feet from the ftag. and tapped in the putt that put hlm three shots clear of the field. 
But he had to work hard to make lt stand up. 
A three-putt bogey on the 17th cut his margin to two, and he faced a six-foot par putt on the 18th. When the ball dropped In, Pavin happily hopped Into the air, the victory secured. 
: 14~LARGE THIN CRUST PIZZA
• 
• any topping with extra cheese PLUS 
Garlic Bread with cheese 
Delivery Orders Only 
(plWJ delivery and tax) •••
•





$6.99 
• •
• •
•

only ..,fth coupon • 

Monday, February 1 7, 1986 -page 1 3 

Notre Dame wrestler Spero Karas, sbown bere 37·6 routing of Marquette tbls weekend. Ed ]or· earlier this season, helped tbe Irish to raise their danicb details tbe action at left. record to 7-6 wttb a 24-15 defeat ofIndiana and a 
Men's swim team beats N. Illinois in preparation for Championships 
By SCOTT INGLIS 
Sports Writer 
A winning season, a balanced team effort, and high hopes for the upcoming championships were the three prizes that the Notre Dame men's swim team was able to bring home with It this weekend. 
The Irish posted a 78-62 dual meet victory Saturday at Northern Illinois University, raising their final season record to 5-4. 
"What made this such a big win for us is that it gave us a winning record for the season," said first-year Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh. "This had been one of our chief goals at the start ofthe season, and I'm really excited that we achieved it." 
Notre Dame started the meet in fine fashion against the Huskies, taking first in the 400-yard medley and a first and second place finish in the 1000-yard freestyle. 
The two senior co-captains for the Irish,john Coffey and Charles Brady, anchored the Irish in racing to this 15·1 advantage early on. Coffey, swimming a leg In the medley, helped Notre Dame to the winning time of 3:43.03, while Brady put In a winning time of 10:46.12 In the freestyle. 
"Winning those first two events and taldng that early lead was a big lift for us," said Welsh. "From that point, we knew we were capable of staying out in front for the remainder of the meet." 

The key word from then on for the Irish was balance, as the men moved on to win 9-of-16 events on the day from the Huskies. Demonstrating their overall team depth and super· iority, Notre Dame captured the nine first place finishes without a single swimmer claiming two vic· torles. . 
Facing this balanced Irish lineup, Northern Illinois, although swim· ming well for the second half of the meet, was never able to close their early deficit to less than nine points, at 71·62. Balance will also be playing a big role for the Irish in the near future, according to Welsh. 
"This meet gives us great hope and optimism going into the cham· pionships," said Welsh. "This team has worked very hard, is a very en· thusiastic group, and the balance we demonstrated today could only help us down the road." 
As an added bonus for the Irish, seniors Mike Roberts and Blaise Har· ding placed first In the 200-yard backstroke (2:07.67) and the 500· yard freestyle ( 4:52.01), respectively, enabling the Irish to complete the senior-sweep started by co-captains Coffey and Brady ear· lier In the meet. 
"That was a nice way to complete the dual-meet season for us. We took four seniors on the trip, and each 
-!986 


fllarrJJ'i fllarcl} 2  &at. &un.  .AU.en C5insb.erg N. &cott .fllomabau  
fllarcl}J  Ilion.  .Alan luganlfllarv WJfu.er  
fllarc1}4  mu.e.s.  ._ullout.e  
fllarcl} 5  W.eos.  fl.ottalb &uk.enfck/Jjor.e &.egat  
.fllarcl} 6  Wl}urs•  atlauton &l}l.eman  
:ellarclJ 7  Jlrt.  flobut Qtormt.er  

.AU~uNH ~td/k ~~ 

tda:oooftk~ 
~~~ *~ ,.;H~td f/vlt~ ()'Z,~ ~ 
one was able to win an event In his last meet at Notre Dame," Welsh said. 
With all these positive signs working for them, the Irish will be spending the early part of this week preparing for the upcoming Mid· western Collegiate Conference championships starting Thursday In Evansville, Ind. Notre Dame placed second last year In the three-day championship meet, and they will go down to Evansville this year looking for a major victory. 
"One of our major goals for the season has been to win this meet," said Welsh. "We achieved one ofour goals on Saturday with the winning season, and we are quite optimistic about achieving this one. 
"Notre Dame has never won this championship meet, which Is cer­tainly something we would like to change:. With our team spirit and en· thusiasm and the way we have been swimming, we are well prepared to do it." 
The Irish will be short a few juniors this weekend with Junior Parents Wcckcnd claiming some swimmers, but Notre Dame's chances are still looking good. After this weekend's championships, the Irish will come home for a week before heading to Illlnols·Chicago for the season's grand finale, the Midwest Independent Invitational meet ln the Windy City . 
TONIGHT 
BLACK * 
(uLTUR/\L 
ARTS
* fESTIVAL 
BRENDA VERNA 
(~ c~ 
7plll 
J.JBRAAY AUDITORIUM 

""t-----~---­
1 I l 
The Observer

'l 
I 
~ 
I 
Fencing teams remain undefeated r in road meet, looking to Nationals· 
~ 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams maintained winning traditions once again after competing on the road at Cleveland, Oh. against ClevelandState, Oberlin, Carnegie-Mellon and California (Pa) The men came away from the weekend with a perfect 21-0 slate while· women compiled a 19-0 record. 
"We are just fencing superbly," said Notre Dame head coach Mike DeCicco. "The team's intensity is high and they are proving their talents on the strip time and time again. We let the championship get away last season and the team refuses to let that happen again. 
"We have been blowing the lesser teams out with our reserves, and beating the better teams by similar margins with our starters. The kids are hungry and are working their hearts out for the chance in March to be the top team in the country." 
While some of DeCicco's top fen­cers were off competing in the Junior Olympics, the team didn't show any lack of talent. Once again, the foil squad has proven to be the bread and butter for the Irish, start­ing the team out strong and gather­ing some key victories. 
Leading the foilists in Cleveland were seniors Mike VanderVelden and Dave Reuter, who registered 6-0 ledgers for the weekend. Their in­dividual season marks currently stand at 28-6 and 14-1 respectively. 
Also finishing strong for the Irish were sophomore Yehuda Kovacs and senior Matt Kirsch. They took foil honors with 5-0 records and are 29-3 and 17-1 respectively for the season. Overall the foil team defeated Clevland State, Carnegie­Mellon and California by a 7-2 mar­gin and Oberlin by 9-0. 
The sabre team did just as well, with victories over Oberlin and California (9-0), Cleveland State (8­
1) and Carnegie-Mellon (6-3). The top finishers for the Irish were seniors Sean Reardon and Mike Bat­bon with a 9-0 slate against the four opponents. Reardon owns a 23-3 mark for the season while Bathon is 24-2. 
The epee squad, while coming 
away with top honors, registered the only loss to an individual team ·during the weekend. They beat Cleveland State (7-2 ), Carnegie­Mellon (8-1 ) and California (5-4) but lost to Oberlin (4-5 ). Junior John Haugh led the team with a 7-1 score to up his season mark to 23-8. 
The women's team found the 
same success in Cleveland with wins 
over Cleveland State (13-3), 
Carnegie-Mellon ( 16-0) and Califor­
nia (10-6). The top foilists for the 
Irish were junior Cindy Weeks and 
senior Janet Sullivan who both 
finished 12-0. Weeks leads the team 
overall with a record of 54-9 while 
Sullivan owns a 28-2 record. 
"The girls all have been fencing 
very well so far this season," said 
Irish coach Yves Auriol. "We have 
the potential to be one of the top 
teams in the country at the NCAA 
tournament in the spring." 
The next Irish opponents are Mic­
htgan State, Illinois, Michigan, 
Wayne State and Oakland on Feb. 15 
at East Lansing, Mich. The Irish hope 
to continue their win streak while 
on their way to the nationals which 
take place on Mar. 25-29. 

Boston bench comes on for Celtics as Walton, Carlisle defeat Lakers 
AsMK:Jated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. -Dennis Jqhnson and Larry Bird were the big scorers, but it was the play of the Boston bench that made the dif­ference yesterday as the Boston Cel­tlcs completed a sweep of the· two-game season series against the Los Angeles Lakers. 
"It was a monumental team ef­fort," Boston Coach K.C. Jones said after the Celtics' 105-99 NBA vic­tory. "We got big lifts from Rick (Carlisle)F.d Bill (Walton)." 
Johnson led the Celtics with 23 points and Bird added 22 points and 18 rebounds, but a better-than­average performance from the Bos­ton bench spurred the victory. 
"They came in and did the job today," Bird said. "It was our defense and the subs coming in that made the difference. The guys off the benchdid the job and that picked us up." 
Lakers Coach Pat Riley downplayed the importance of the game. 
"Boston made all the plays when 


The Proof 
is in 
the Taste! 
Opea Moa-8at 11 •• Saa4p• 
Pfzza-&rndwlchetJ-&rlada Beer& Wine 
277-2020 J.oc.ted f• Ro••,.•d 
(N..ttoll_...,. 
they had. to," he said. ''I'm sure they feel good about themselve with their two wins. But the playoffs are a long way away." 
The Celtics opened a 10-point lead early in the fourth quarter and then held off the Lakers. in the waning moments. 
The Lakers', who were led by James Worthy's 35 points, went cold in the final two minutes and could not cut the Celtics' lead to less than six. The Lakers missed seven straight shots in the final minute. 
Boston, winning its third straight and 15th of its last 16, had three reserves in double figures. Guard Jerry Sichting had 11 points, and Rick Carlisle and Bill Walton each had 10.. 
The Lakers also got 23 points from Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Earvin "Magic" Johnson had 12 assists for Los Angeles, but failed to make a field goal and had just six points. 
Boston opened its biggest lead, 71-59, by outscoring the Lakers 13-2 over a four-minute span early in the third quarter. DennisJohnson keyed the run with six points. 
The Lakers, behind Worthy, trimmed the margin to 81-79 with 1:OS left in the period. Worthy, in ad­dition to making two spectacular layups and a resounding dunk, scored 13 points in the quarter. 
The game was interrupted three 
times  by flaring  tempers  in  the  
second quarter.  
Midway  through  the  period,  

Lakers guard Byron Scott had to be restrained after receiving a technical foul for throwing the ball at Sichting. 
Just 35 seconds later, players again had to be held apart after eel­tics reserve Greg Kite fouled Mic­hael Cooper hard from behind on a layup try. 
Tempers again got hot in the final minute of the half when Kite sent Abdul-Jabbar to the floor with anot­her hard foul. 
The Lakers sank nine straight free throws in the final three minutes to cut Boston's halftime advantage to 58-55 after Sichting's nine points in the second period helped the eel­tics lead 55-48. 
~---clipandsave ·-----------------~ 
-tell *
DELIVERY
~·AUGLES8 HOURS: 6:00-Midnight 272-5455 * 
N~ 501 Dixieway North, Roseland, Indiana 
* 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! lt 
MEXICAN KI~H~~ 
Toc:o 1.09 1-69 
Burrito. 
Beon 1.79 2.49 
Meal 2.39 3.29 
Com.bo 2.09 2.79 
1-89 2.59 Make any burrito wet for 50 cents!! 
c-
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a pound of goodles1 
NociM>olt C-Ll9 Have some sauce for no extra charge to spk:e them up that much fl"IOfe. 
Macho Nacho'• 2.19 Refried beans. ch'J>S, cheese. peppers. mikt meat sauce. spicy ~een sauce! 
Toatada Grande 3.29 
(In a shell  wonderful)  
Reg.  Platt~  
1.29  2.89  
Toatada Combo  1.59  2.09  
Chile Ole'  .99  2.39  
Taco Sandwich  1.49  2.59  
Chicken Sandwich  1-74  2.84  

Plc1tter Assortment of sauces & side orders Want U a specaal way just order it! 
Enchilada'• (Piauer of 2) 
Meat· lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 
Chicken 2.50 
DINNERS 
•1 
Enchll•d• • 1 chicken, 1 beef 

•4 
Cheeee Burrito & Taco 


Complete with Mexk:an salad, retried beans. chill & cheese. guacamole. sour cream & a pile of rhips. A dinner with enou!ll k>ft OWJ lor tomorrow's LUNCH! 
4.79 
Plus tax on prices · $5.00 mini~um order 
AM~~~~!~. ~~~?~EN * 
CUSTOM GRJU:ED NOT STOCK PllfD '-'.._ 
Naugleburger 1.99 ,llllf'"" 2 Patties with the works ~ double cheese jllllf" 
Deluxe Hamburger 2 Patties with lettuce, 
1-39 
* 
tomato. mayo dressing 
Hamburger 2 Patties with ptckle, ketchup. Ll9 

* 
mustard, onkxl 
add cheese .20 
DESSERTS 

* 
Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawbeny • Orartge "'-.._ 81uebeny • Chocolate • O>em; • Vonilla • Root S... *jllllf" Shokeo 1-09 Sundaa 1.49 Fudge Brownie .69 .......... Pa•try .69 ,....... 
Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 

* 
DRINK UP! 
Cold Beverafln l2oz.-.64 20oz.-.79 32oz.-.94 
Peps;. O;et Peps>. Root Bee-. Mo. Dew 

*
0.. Peppe>". Welches. Sunk;st. Lmnonade ke Tea. Milk. Orange JWce 

* 
Hot~raga-.47 

* 
Coffee, Hot ChocolatE', Hot Tea 

* 
SIDE ORDERS 
French Fda 
.99 

* 
Rmled Beano .99 "'­with chill aauce .99 jllllf" 
Nocho Chlpo . Guoco......., Fresh. Fresh. Fresh .39.
.19 

* 

.25 .50 ..
* 
----~----· clfp and save··------------­

-----~--­
Monday, February 17, 1986 -page 14 

1be Oblervu/FUe Photo 
Notre Dame fencers, shown above, remained unbeaten as both the men's and women's teams travelled to Cleveland, Oh. to defeat Cleveland State, Carnegie Mellon, Oberlin, and California (Pa.) this weekend. Trlsb Sullivan has the story at below at the left. 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper 
serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
accepting applications for the following positions: 
1986·87 Business Manager and Managing Editor 
Applications must be submitted to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Friday, February 21, 1986. 
The Observer 3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

INFORMATION MEETING 
University of Notre Dame 
Foreign Study Programs 
Jerusalem 


Students Interested In Foreign Study In jerusalem are encouraged to allend an Information meeting wllh returning students from the program and wllh Landrum Bolling, director of this program In Tantur. 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 

------~------· 
~-­
~4(Jt~C3L~---------------------------------------M-o_n_da_y_,_Fe_b_r_u_ary 
1_7_,1_9_8_6_-_P_ag_e 15 

r*~·..···**"***"'**********************l ************************~ i ISNo!~~EDBUT... trhe Cellar Ticket Stub~ 
* ·ng * H0t p J. *I~ congratulations * 
: s"atl * • ~ to logo contest winners ~ 
* Chocolate ~ ~ * ~ 
I

: ~ Jeanne Mclean Lev Chapelsky * J j 
provided at ACC Ice Rink I'"" * ~ Feb. 20, s-1o:1s t Thanks to all those who submitted * ASTUDENTACTIVITIESBOARDPRODUCTION ~-1!:. their SketcheS and ideaS! lt l 
~*'**'*i4=1*~~~~~ ************************* 
.. 
Bloom County 

Zeto 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Travelers' 
aida 5 The beat 9 Mother goddess 
13 Sufficient 
archaically 14 "-Blue Gown" 16 Wen 17 Partnertess 
performances 18 Payment 20 Authority 22 Diva's 
specialty 23 Calendar abbr. 24 Annapolis, e.g. 28 Enjoyed 28 Anathema 30 Monstrous 
giant 32 -en pointe 33 Harvest 
goddess 34 Oven 36 Four: pref. 39 Causefor 
~1986 Tribune Media Services, inc. 2/17/86
legal objec· 
Friday's Solution 
tlon  All Rights Reserved  
43 Noted  
 
capitalist  4 Cotton fabric  
44 Relative  5 Seaman  
45 Bounder  6 Cry of  
46 Accustomed  approval  
48 Minced oath  7 Literary genre  
50 Kind of cook  6 Notch  
51 Time of day  9 Dessert  
54 Lightweight  10 Orion and  
hat  nylon  
56 Candlenut tree  11 Release  
57 --European  12 Quadruped  
58 Singer Mercer  15 Rousseau work  
61 Plainclothes·  19 Oils  
men  21 Yoko-Lennon  
65 Animal fluids  25 Dramatic  
66 Ger. rlvar  conflict  
67 Rested  27 Proofreading  
66 Make neater 69 Fla. county  word 28 Gaucho weapon  2117186  
70 Whitney et al.  29 Copies  41 Conducive to  53 Role In  
71 Needing  31 Sitar music  peace  "Swan Lake"  
guidance  35 Chin. tree  42 Coup d'­ 55 Rlgatonl  
37 Niagara's  47 Prohibitions  59 Pa.clty  
DOWN  sound  49 Deluise  60 Dalal,­ 
1 Disarrange  38 Warhol  thacomlc  62 Poet's word  
2 Celebes animal  40 Prescribed  51 Pale  63 Roof ornament  
3 Kind of fat  amount  52 Last letter  64 Ways: abbr.  



Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 
Kevin Walsh 




"Louise! C'mon over here .... I think we got some bug spreadln' through the store." 
Campus 

•4:00 
P.M.. Presentation, "Corporate Values •7:00 P.M. · Orp.nlzational Meeting, and Leadership: a Mutual Funds Perspective," Ombudsman, Ombudsman Office, 2nd Floor john R. Thomas, IDS Mutual Funds-American LaFortune Express, Room 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored •7:30 P.M. -Meeting, World Hunger Coali· by Finance Club tion, Stacy Hennesey, Center for Social Con­

•5:00 
P.M.· Meeting, Student Uason Commit· cerns Building, tee · all interested in helping with spring art •7:30 P.M. · Meeting, RASTA, (Rally Against festival . piz;za supper, Snite Museum, Starvation), Little Theatre, LaFortune Sponsored by Student Liason Committee •7:30 P.M.. Videotape, "Chile Hoy," Center 

•6:30 
P.M. -Meeting, Overseas Development for Social Concerns Building, Sponsored by Network, Center for Social Concerns Coffee SOLA (Students Organization for Latin Room America) 


QinnerMenu Notre Dame BeefTop Round Sweet and Sour Chicken Swiss Quiche Hot Dog with Cony Saufe 
TV Tonight 

6:00P.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  46  LcscaAiive  
:zz  Eyewitness News  9:30P.M.  :z:z  Newhart  
28  Ncwswatch 28  10:00 P.M.  22  Cagney &: Lacey  
6:30P.M.  16  NBC Nightly News  J4  Actors' Theatee  Presents:  
22  CBS Evening News  "Banok as Dog"  
28  ABC World News Tonight  46  Church Growth Internatio nal  
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  10:30P.M.  46  Ught &: Uvcly  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  U:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  22  Eyewitness News  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  28  Newswatch 28  
28  Wheel ofFortune  J4  Body Electric  
8:00P.M.  16  TV Bloopers & Practical jokes  46  Praise the Lord  
22  Scarecrow & Mrs. King  
28  Hardcastle & McCormick  11:30P.M.  16  Best ofCarson  
J4  Wonderworks: "Anne of Green  22  Remington Steele ·  CBS  Late  
Gables"  Movie: "Chanel Solltalre"  
8:30P.M.  46  Calvary Temple  28  ABC News Nightllne  
9:00P.M.  16  Flashdance  J4  Star Trek  
22  Kate &Allie  12:00A.M.  28  Eye on HoUywood  
28  Choices  12:30A.M.  16  David Letterman  
9:00P.M.  J4  American Playhouse:  2:00A.M.  22  Nightwatch  
"Huckleberry Finn"  46  Independent Network News  

-~--------~ ------~--~------­... 
Monday, February 17, 1986-page 16
Sgorts 
Irish lose in last six seconds, despite impressive comeback 
ByERil; SCHEUERMANN A steal by guard Scott Hicks in the Duke AssistantSportsEditor backcoun brousJlt Notre Dame fans out of their seats, but the Blue Devils were able to 
DURHAM, N.C. · Irish basketball coach Dig­take the ball back and the Irish had to send ger Phelps was risJlt where he wanted to be Duke forward Billy King to the line with 13 just before the end of yesterday's game at seconds to play. Duke. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, there King, a 50 percent foul shooter, missed his would not be a happy finish. first shot to give the Irish a final chance. But 
"If someone would have told me we could Dawkins came up with his big play in the be one point down with six seconds left in a closing seconds to protect the 75-74 lead as a game down here, I would have taken it -no wild crowd at Cameron Indoor Stadium doubt in my mind," said Phelps after the Irish poured onto the floor in joyous relief with vic· had lost a heartbreaker to the Blue Devils, 75· tory preserved. 
74. "I was trying to create for myself and my David Rivers had his last-second jumper teammates," said Rivers of the final play. "He blocked by outstanding Duke guard Johnny definitely got a part of the ball, but there was 
-
Dawkins as he tried to give the Irish the win, contact. But you're not going to get those foul and Notre Dame ran out oftime in its quest to calis down the stretch. It's too bad things just knock off the second-ranked Blue Devils. didn't work out." 
The Irish, 17-5, gave themselves that "He was penetrating and I cut him off," said chance for victory with an outstanding effon Dawkins. "He went up before me, but I went in the closing minutes, coming back after up for the block and fortunately I got it. I Duke had taken an eisJlt-point lead with only figured it would be either him or Ken Barlow. 
2:16left to play. I knew I'd have to play some defense." 
A slam by Dawkins, who finished with 18 Phelps later explained what was supposed points and eisJlt rebounds, gave the Blue to happen on the final play. Devils that lead. But the Irish refused to die, "The play was designed for David to get the and a seven-foot jumper by Rivers and two ball and take the shot if he could get open," foul shots by Jim Dolan brousJlt Notre Dame said the Irish ..coach. "We put Price in one within four with 58 seconds left in the con­corner and Stevenson in the other for a pass. test. We wanted Barlow and (Tim) Kempton 
Two foul shots by Duke freshman Danny around the basket fnr a tip." Ferry pushed the lead back up to six, but Despite the one-point loss, Phelps Rivers followed quickly with a double-pump remained pleased with the play ofhis team. Duke guard David Henderson drives past layup. Jim Dolan's three-point play, after a "It was one ofour better games," he said. "I Notre Dame forward Donald Royal In last 
miss on a one-and-one opportunity by Blue feel really good about this game today. This year's contest. In yesterday's game, tbe Irish Devils swingman David Henderson, then bad a chance to wtn tbe game wttb six 
see BLUE DEVILS, page 10

brousJlt the Irish within one. seconds left, butpremierDukeguard]obnny 
Blue Devils' student body has different character 
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN The action inside staned about 40 with chants of, "Green hat, green One interesting group of young those foul shots and the Irish as a AssistantSports Editor minutes before game time. Most of hat" until he removed it. men sat directly behind the Notre .whole made 91 percent for the the students had arrived and had When NBC·TV announcers AI Dame bench and never failed to game. DURHAM, N.C. Different, filled the lower section, while most McGuire and Dick Enberg arrive(! harass the Irish during timeouts. The mention of a North Carolina definitely different. of the upper seats remained empty. McGuire was greeted by cheers of, Representing Duke's only all-male Tar Heel at halftime brousJlt a 
That seems to be the only way to None of the players were on the "Take a spin, AI, take a spin." This ap­dorm, they wore sweatshirts with response of, "Go to hell, Carolina, go describe the antics of the Duke stu­court, and none of the "older folks" peared to be old stutffor McGuire as the letters "BOG" (Bunch Of Guys) to hell," showing that the "little dent body at yesterday's Blue Devils­had yet arrived. It was clear at this he responded by spinning on the sewn across the front. Devils" were not even using their Irish matchup at Cameron Indoor point that this stadium was the ground a few times, faking a dunk best stuff on the Irish. Stadium. Often called the most in­domain ofthe students. with a 360-degree spin. Activity during Notre Dame foul One Duke student h~ this to say novative student body in the nation, As the rest ofthe crowd filed in up Seemingly everything the stu­shots varied. Sometimes there was on the new basketbiill arena at the "little Devils,'' .as they are called, until game time, the students dents chanted, they chanted toget­conventional loud noise and hand nearby North Carolina. were their usual self. remained vocal. It staned with the her. When McGuire was hugged by a waving, while other times there was 
The fun began for some the night Blue Devil mascot tearing up a Notre woman, they yelled, "AI's got a quiet with a loud shout just as the "They make the students sit far before the game as a number ofstu­Dame sign, while the student body girlfriend, Al's got a girlfriend." Irish released the ball. away from the coun,"lie said. "The dents slept outside the arena. Stu­sang and danced to the band's per­Some signs that decorated the For Tim Kempton, the fans had boosters get the best seats, and half dents are alloted the lower seats all formance of "Devil With A Blue arena were: "Notre Dame -No Big special treatment. When he stepped the time they don't even show up. around the coun (approximately Dress On." Challenge," in reference to NBC, to the line with 6:20 to play, the stu­That's not the way It should be. 2,500 of the 8,564 capacity), and Tennis balis flew back and fonh and "Now we want the Celtics,'' dents jeered, "Oh no, not Kempton." Gyms should be for the students." these seats are filled on a first come­over the coun and an Irish fan with a whose talents the Duke fans may be The noise seemed to matter little to And that was never more evident first served basis. green hat was accosted in unison underestimating. Notre Dame as Kempton made both than yesterday at Duke. 
Willis dominates boards, scores 19 in 67-56 victory over rival Detroit 
By MARlY STRASEN she's using that by stepping up and being in the right place at the right .Sports Writer looking for the basketball or making time. a move to the basket, she's not going "They were banging around in 
DETROIT · Lavetta Willis lives in to get the ball, and she's not going to there, but we were screening for nearby Wayne, Mich., but Saturday go anyplace ifshe does get it. each other and helping each other night she made her home in the "Today she moved for the ball, she out," she explained. "(The guards) paint at Calihan Hall. moved for position and when she were getting the passes ln. We knew 
With her parents and sister In the received the ball she made good we had to keep screening and it just crowd, Willis took control under the moves going for the basket." happened that I was the one open. boards in the second half to lift the Notre Dame played a slow game Detroit was pretty tough inside." Notre Dame women's basketball for most of the first half, with 6-2 Another key for the Irish in the team to a 67-56 victory over North Sandy Botham taking advantage of second half was their ability to figure Star Conference rival Detroit. The openings in Detroit's man-to-man out the Detroit press which caused win lifted the Irish to a 15-7 overall defense and dumping in 10 points. so many problems In the final four mark and gave them their seventh It appeared the Irish might pull minutes of the first frame. DiStants­conference victory against only one away when they went on top 24-16 lao expected the Titans to try to use defeat. with under four minutes to play, but their speed. 
Willis scored 15 of her 19 points the Titans used their spee<! and a in the second half, and Notre Dame full-coun press to force turnovers "No matter how much you head coach Mary DiStanislao and put the final eight points of the prepare for it, pc10ple in different­thought her play turned things halfon the board. color jerseys are going to do it to around for the team after the Lady But in the second half it was all you," she said. "It worked for Titans had played the Irish to a 24-24 Willis. When she wasn't hitting Detroit. They got real aggressive and tle during the first 20 minutes. jumpers in the lane she was getting staned corning after us. It worked. 
Lavetta Willis, picturedabove, btt9-of-1 0 from tbefoul line and "It's easy for a person ofher size to fouled, connecting on 9-of-1 0 from Detroit plays much better when 5-of-6 from tbe field to lead tbe Irish over North Star Conference 
get lost inside behind those big the charity stripe to go along with they can play an up-tempo game. 
rivals Detroit, 67-56 Saturday. Notre Dame reboundedfrom a 24­
people,'' DiStanislao said ofthe 5-11 her 5-of-6 from the field, for a game­"We got some good leadership24 tie at halftime to pull away on Willis' botband. Marty Strasen junior. "She definitely has the high total of 19 points. 
see LEADERSHIP, page 11
bas tbe story at right. advantage ofbeing quick. But unless Willis attributed her success to 


• 



