-----~ 
..................-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Happenings -Inside 

VOL XX, NO. 97 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's · 
8 candidates reveal plans to campaign in election 
ByLYNNER. STRAND 
Staff Reporter 
Eight potential tickets for stu­dent body president and vice presi­dent received petitions for can­didacy last night at a mandatory meeting for candidates. 
The potential tickets include Tom Grier and Steve Guenther, Bill Lytle and Jeff Martello, Mike Switek and Don Montanaro, Mike Torkelson and John Kromer, John Walsh and Patrick Walsh, Mike Millen and Sheila O'Connor, Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink, and Bruce Lohman and Jim Crandall. 
Potential candidates are now cir­culating petitions which require 150 signatures. The petitions will be due at 5 p.m. next Monday in the Ombudsman office. The official candidate list will be posted by 2 
p.m. the next day. The student body election will be held Tuesday, March 4. 
"Candidates must inform their campaign workers not to violate the campaign rules," said Tom Brennan, Ombudsman election of­ficer. 
According to Brennan, campaign posters are not allowed in the classrooms, dining halls, student government or class offices, or voting areas. They are to be kept on bulletin boards "or right next to them. The posters must be self­containing -meaning there can't be ten posters strung together spelling out a name," he noted. 
Campaigning also is not allowed in classrooms, student government or class offices, or voting areas. 
"If a supporter of a candidate 
see TICKET, page 6 



WVFI may get increase in budget 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
The student-run WVFI-AM 
radio station "has a pretty good 
chance" of receiving an increased 
budget next year and may receive 
funds to repair its problem-plagued 
transmitting system," said Assis­
tant Vice President for Student Ser­
vices Father Francis Cafarelli. 
In addition, WVFI-AM may not 
move -to the LaFortune Student 
Center, Cafarelli said. 
"I think the chances for WVFI's having some more (budget money for next year) are pretty good," Caferrli said. 
". . . it's clear there are many things people (at WVFI-AM) want to do which the budget is inade­quate for," said Cafarelli, who declined to disclose the amount of WVFI's possible budget increase. 
Cafarelli was one of four ad­ministrators who received a pro­posal by WVFI-AM station manager Reginald Daniel re­questing an increase in the station's current budget of $13,000 a year. 
Daniel said last week that WVFI­AM already had exceeded its budget this year by approximately $2,000. 
Daniel, who also sent his pro­posal to Executive Assistant to the President FAther William Beauchamp, Assistant Director of Media and Programming Adele Lanan and trustee member Terr­ance Kelley, additionally requested that WVFI-AM's transmitting system by rebuilt. 
Cafarelli said he and other ad­ministrators are working on secur­ing appropriations for such a pro­ject. If they are successful, the 

. funds would be used to replace 
WVFI-AM's couplers and 
transmitters, which allow the sta­

tion's  signal  to  be  picked up  in  
Notre  Dame  and  Saint  Mary's  
dorms.  

Appropriations for the project would be separate from WVFI­AM's budget, he said. 
Results from a study commis­sioned by the University made evi­dent the necessity of the project, Cafarelli said. The study found that the station has "a lot of un­maintained equipment and some disintegrating equipment, and pro­blems from neglect over the past years," he said. 
According to WVFI-AM and WSND-FM Chief Engineer Mike Thesing, the company doing the study suggested that each building receiving WVFI-AM's signal have one coupler in order for the station to have the "best overall coverage." 
WVFI-AM already has replaced four couplers, costing $180 apiece, and would still need approximately 23 more if the company's advice were taken, Thesing said. However, even 15 more couplers ''would make a dramatic improve­ment," he said. 
Although the "first priority is to replace the couplers," Thesing said see WVFI, page 6 


NO hall presidents decide to vote down constitution proposal 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Seniar StaffReporter 
The Hall Presidents' Council voted down the new constitution last night after it was passed Wed­nesday night by the Student Senate. The 1 1·9 vote against the new con­stitution came after an hour and fif. teen minutes of debate. 
Lyons Hall President)oanie Cahill explained that she voted against the measure because she said she didn't feel that the new constitution would improve the current situation ofstu· dent government. 
"The Senate would be a changed body but it wouldn't be a more ef. fective one," said Cahill. "There would be 28 senators with people on different committees but what are 28 different people going to do? There isn't going to be anything for them to do. 
"It's definitely got some good points such as streamlining and providing representatives from each hall. But I don't see that having a president and a senator from each hall is going to improve things." 
Representing those in favor of the new constitution were Off-Campus Student Senator Jim Hagan and Flan­ner Co-President Mark Conces, both of whom were on the committee responsible for the reconstruction ofstudent government. 
Hagan expressed a sense of disap­pointment with the outcome of last night's vote and with the motives be­hind the votes cast by certain HPC members. 
"What disappointed me is that 
some people got hung up on special 
interest points. Not one person said 
they felt this would not be in the 
best interest of the students. Their 
objections were that the move 
would possibly, and I emphasize 
possibly, weaken HPC," said Hagan. 
According to Hagan, among the 
benefits of the new constitution 
would be unification of student 
government. He also said that it 
would have given the HPC power 
"to pursue its own policies. It would 
have relieved HPC of the burden of 
the tangled political problem." 
Hagan added that he felt the thing to do now is to present the issue to the student body for their vote. He said the students must understand the proposal and express their opinions on it. 
Conces concurred with Hagan, explaining that it was particularly disappointing to him that those who voted against the new constitution had had the opportunity to be on the restructuring committee when it was formed in last January. 

"We did what we did for the bet· terment ofthe school," said Conces. "We're not power hungry. But what more (.<in we do for them (those opposed to the measure)? You can only compromise so much before you lose the essence of what you're striving for. The only thing to do now is to take it to the students." 
Student Body President Bill Healy said that he was "not surprised by see VOTE, page 3 

JPW event·s schedule 
Junior Parents' Weekend events are as follows: 
Today: 
• 
Registration, 9 a.m.-8 p.m., main lobby, LaFortune Student Center. After 8 p.m., registration will be moved to the ACC. 

• 
Campus tours start at LaFortune at noon. 

• 
"Wake up the Echoes," shown hourly in LaFortJ.me Uttle Theater. 

• 
Cocktail Dance, 9 p.m., ACC Arena. 


Tomorrow: 
• 
Registration, 9 a.m.-1 p.m., ACC. 

• 
Academic Workshops, 10 a.m.-12:30 p.m. (Locations and times depend on major). 

• 
"Wake up the Echoes," 1, 2:15, 3:30 p.m., Engineering Auditorium. 

• 
Open House, Air Force ROTC, 12-4 p.m., Building 5 (ROTC Build· ing). 

• 
Open House, Navy ROTC, 1:30-3 p.m., ROTC Building. 

• 
Open House, Army ROTC, 2-4 p.m., Ubrary Lounge. 

• 
Jazz Band, 1 p.m.-2:30p.m., AnnenbergAuditorium. 

• 
Snite Tours, 2 and 3 p.m. ( 1/2 hour tours). 

• 
Shenanigans, 2:45·4 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium. 

• 
Center for Social Concerns, (Film/tours) 1-4 p.m., CSC. 

• 
Foreign Studies Reception, 2·4 p.m., Center for Continuing Educa­tion. 

• 
Mass, 5·6 p.m., ACC Arena. 

• 
President's Dinner, 7-10 p.m., ACC North Dome. 

• 
Hall Parties, 10 p.m. 

• 
Off-campus hall party, 10 p.m., Monogram Room, ACC. 


Sunday: 

• Brunch, 10:30 a.m.-noon, ACC North Dome. Speaker: Lou Holtz. 
During the registration times listed above, tickets will be distributed and additional tickets may be purchased for each event. Parents must register to receive their tickets. 
The Observer 
Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 2 

The shack constructed Wednesday by residents of Howard Hall in protest of Notre Dame's investment policy was removed later that night by Notre Dame Security, according to Security Director Rex Rakow. Rakow said his office had some calls from people complaining of the structure, which had been moved by the residents from the front lawn of Howard and reconstructed near the statue ofFather Sorin. Explaining why Security removed the shack, Rakow said, "It's not part ofthe campus structure." He added that Security received no resistance when they removed the shack. ­
The Obseroer 
Jews and Christians understanding each other was the subject of a joint lecture last night at the Library Auditorium. Professor Moshe Davis, head of the Institute for Contemporary Jewry at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, and Robert Handy, professor of Church history at Union Theological Seminary, dis­cussed Christian conceptions ofJudaism. The lecture was sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Theology and given as part of the Crown-Min ow lecture series. -Tbe Observer 

Of Interest 
Dean Roger Schmitz, of the College of Engineer­ing, will speak today on "The College Curriculum and the Special Mission of Notre Dame" at 12:1 5 p.m. in the Center for Social Con­cerns. · The Obseroer 
The An Tostal Committee will be holding a general meeting in the library auditorium Sunday at 7 p.m. Volun· teers are needed to work on many fun An Tostal events. All welcome. 
• The Observer 
ushers are needed for all performances of "The Tempest." Sign up at 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Ushers see the play free. · The Observer 
Up to three fellowships will be awarded by the latin American Area Studies Program and the Kellogg Institute for International Studies to Notre Dame students this summer for inter­nships at the Washington Office on latin America, the Center of Concern, and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization ofAmerican States. Inqui.i-ies can be made to LAASP Director David Ruccio at 103 Decio. He may also be called at 239· 7036. • Tbe Observer 
Winter Festival '86 will be sponsored by the Student Activities Board from Monday, Feb. 24 to Saturday, March 1. Events will include free bowling at the Beacon Bowl, outdoorskating, cross­country skiing on the N.D. golfcourse, and apre-spring break bash at the South Dining Hall. · Tbe Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be sub­mitted at The Observer office on the third floor ofLaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date ofpublication. Of Interests an­nounce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all OfInterests. · Tbe Observer 


Weather 
Bring on the white this wedrend. 1'bere is a 70pacem cbaoce otsnow diminishing to fturrta today with bJabs in the low 30s. Occutonalmow flurries tonl&bt and toiDOITOW with10911 from 15 to 20 and hipin the upper 20.. ·AP 




-Ihe Obsenrer 
o.tp~lOr.............."" Nut Mdl•....lla o.a,.A#UIMtt___............wcc Kroqer TJ'P• ,.,..........._ ........................ C!udt PllpiDdra. N-Ulkw.-........... -Oody Reuckbont Copy.BIIIkw...-............... 
SpoiU CopyUtlor.­
Yiftlpol1fl Copy~tor-.......Sue Duabu 
y~Ltlyotll........... -....llob Blnolo p.,_.copy &utor....­
.......s.m Moore ~LilyoMI ............ Muk Mcl.auibUa ND Dti)!UIIor........................... BW Hcrq SMC Dt1y&Utor........-·--NaryJean SuBy 
All~----·-·······-----·-----!'red Nd8oa 
}CIICPau Alll8oa Febreakopb ~--............-Hector MoreDO 
'nw Obecrv<er ( l'SPS ~99 l-4000) is publisht'd \1ond:~y through friwy t'X('t'Pt dunn~o: exam and vacatton pcriod5. lb<e Observ<er i~ puhh~ht'd h~-the studt'nt~ ofthl' I ni\'t'r~it) of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collcgl' Subscription~ may lx purcha~d for S~() per year ( llU per stmester) by writing lb<e Obecrv<er, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
-tM~6 Tbe Obee~ is a mc-m~r of '~be Associated Pr<ess. All reproduction rtght~ ilrt' 
r<e5r"VC'd. 
Realistic cure should be found 
for malpractice suit epidemic 
There's a disease today of epidemic proportion that doctors alone have no chance ofcuring. The disease is malpractice suits, and its effects are forcing surgeons out ofthe operating room and into the courtroom. 
Symptoms indicate that the disease has spread across the nation. In the last decade suits against doctors have tripled. And in that time the average jury award in a malpractice case has risen from n 66,165 to S954,858, according toJury Verdict Research ofSolon, Ohio. 
The American Medical Association reports that 16 percent of its members were sued in 1984 for malpractice. In this climate, 35 percent of its members told the AMA they have limited the types of cases they will accept. 
The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists reports 12 percent of its board certified members no longer deliver babies. 
And a survey in Missouri reported the cost of malpractice insurance has added S45 to a patient's daily hospital bill. 
The facts are self-explanatory. Doctors, being hit hard for the mistakes made during high-risk operations, are reducing services and charging patients more. For example, the ACOG says 7 4 percent of its obstetricians have passed on at least part of their 

premium  increases  to  
patients.  
Striving  for  accuracy is  

important in any profession, and setting high standards in medicine reflects an attempt to pursue this goal. When the society-imposed stan­dards become too lofty, however, doctors will be forced to protect themselves from the consequences. 

Part of the problem is that modern medical dis­coveries have made doctors appear to be miracle workers. Ufe support systems, organ transplants and birthing devices allow them to sustain life as never before. 
But such miracles involve high risk. And often patients who file for malpractice are experiencing the painful discovery that even modem medicine does have its limits. It's obvious expectations must become more realistic. 
Doctors should not have to pay the price for attempt· ing to save lives with risky techniques, even though they occasionally f.Ul. Gross neglect and misprocedure in simple cases is, ofcourse, another story; these cases are the legitimate original reason for malpractice suits. 
In many cases, however, suits are being filed when nothing could have changed a patient's fate. One obstetrician comments, "Today our technology 

a.bl.. ,

Don't Thrlv• When You re 
In Pregnant, Smoke-filled Don't Smokel Wombs 

Cindy Rauckhorst 
Assistant News Editor 

can take a 1.5-pound baby and keep it alive. God only knows what it will turn out to be. If it's not good, 18 years down the road the parents can sue you for mil­lions." 
And they are doing just that. 
The courts, already overcrowded, have been in· undated by thousands of malpractice suits, each adding directly to the problem. And the consumer ultimately pays, for the court battles, for the expensive medical costs and for the high insurance risk premiums. 
Even positive effects of the malpractice suit binge are draining the pockets of patients. To avoid litigation, doctors today are now prac­ticing more defensive medicine, in the form of ex­tra lab tests and precautions to reduce the chances of malpractice accusations. 
The AMA estimates the cost of these precautions at S 1 5 billion to S40 billion per year. 
The alarming frequency of malpractice suits is producing a no-win situa­tion. But solutions to both the short-term and long­term problem will require the collective efforts and 

flexibility ofdoctors, lawyers and patients. 
Ceilings should be placed on the amount awarded a patient in a malpractice suit, unless the case is blatantly justified. Better education of doctors in risky medical procedures is needed. And patients involved in high­risk operations must officially consent to the doctor's potential for human error. 
Perhaps the AMA and the legal system should take a step back to better examine the situation, individually and collectively. Past efforts apparently haven't done the job. Attempts must be made to clearly define and rigidly enforce the duties and limitations ofeach profes· sion. 
The disease is a human one, and it is humans who must confront it with a realistic cure. 

SObering 
'

Advice 



cansave\ ... 
alife 



The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 3 

American Civil Liberties Union called 'unamerican' by law dean 
By SCOTf BEARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
The American Civil liberties Union "is a de facto apologist of communism" and is "unamerican in the extreme," according to Brook­lyn Law School Associate Dean Henry Holzer at a lecture given at the Notre Dame Law School yester­day. 
In his talk entitled, "False Pretenses: Walter Polovchak, the ACLU, and the Communists," Holzer drew mixed reactions from the predominantly law student crowd when he presented his views on the American Civil Liberties Union. He specifically discussed the organiza­tion's role in opposing the attempt of Polovchak, then a underage Soviet, to seek U.S. citizenship. 
Holzer successfully defended Polovchak against the ACLU, who argued that the boy should go back to the Soviet Union with his parents. 
"Why would an organization pur­porting to be 'American' and stand for 'civil liberties' want to forcibly send my client back to the Soviet Union," when according to aut­horities on the subject "his (Walter's) life from the very day he returned would be really 
Philosophers discuss issues at CCE 
By JIM WINKLER 
News Staff 
Prominent philosophers will be discussing the age-old issues of Christian philosophy and faith to­day and tomorrow at a Center for Continuing Education conference. 
"This conference is of interest to all intelligent Christians. It signals a new sort of relation between the academic world and the world of religion," said Thomas Morris, organizer of the conference. 
Morris, a Notre Dame professor of philosophy, said the event's pur­pose was to gather leading English­speaking philosophers together to contribute essays to a book titled, "Philosophy and the Christian 
* * * ***1
f DISTINGUISHED STUDENT i : AWARD i 
: Til• Notr• Dam• Alunanl Aaoelatlon will ••aeeeptln1 •••lutl... ~ t from FeiJruar~ %4•Z8 for til• Stll annual DlstlniUbll•ll Stu....t ~ : Award. Til• DlstlniUisllell Student AWflrll was er•t•ll to llo11or •• -tr: outstandlnls•nlorstudent at tile Vnlwrslt~ IHis• 011 til•foll..,l•l : criteria: ! 
:; ervice to Notre Dame,
~: l)S ~ 
2) Service to the Community, and, tc 3) Good Academic Standing. 
•
: Applications can be obtained at the AluDlni Association Office on t the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for ~ Social Concerns" and at Campas Ministry Office in the 
: Memorial Library • -tr: Nominations must be submitted to the Association by J'eii.J8, !986. Jt. 
:*******************************************••*******; 
faith," which Morris is editing. 
The book will be a joint enter­prise to collect new essays on Chris­tian philosophical issues, Morris said. 
During the conference the philosophers will present their essays on topics such as Christian salvation, original sin and atone­ment. Several other scholars will 
then  respond  to  the  contributed  
works.  
Tonight's  speakers  include  

William Alston of Syracuse Univer­sity, who will discuss the relation­ship between the Holy Spirit and Christians, and Peter van lnwagen, also from Syracuse, who will talk about the Holy Trinity. 
ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
i219J 272-7144 

miserable?" Holzer asked. 
Holzer said the ACLU tried un­successfully for more than five years to send Polovchaic, who has violated terrible Soviet laws, back to what he called the bloodiest totalitarian ces­spool on this planet. 
According to Holzer, the ACLU defended its belief that Polovchak should return to the Soviet Union with his parents by saying it was a matter of "family integrity." However, Holzer said family in­tegrity was not an issue here, based on the circumstances of the Polov­chak family. 
By forcing Polovchak to return to the Soviet Union, the ACLU claimed "parents had absolute, 101 percent control over their children," said Holzer. 
Yet Holzer said the ACLU took this view despite its claim to protect juvenile rights. "The ACLU had a 180 degree variance with their position on that issue (juvenile rights)," said Holzer. He continued by citing cases where the ACLU defended children's rights, fighting against drug searches in high schools, and for the right to allow a minor depen· dent child to have an abortion wit­hout parental knowledge. 
Holzer, who unsuccessfully 
f*** * * * * * * ** 
represented Ukranian seaman Miroslav Medvid when he tried to defect from a Soviet grain ship last November in New Orleans, called the ACLU's obscene posturing of Polovchak as a champion of civil liberties another smokescreen to the organization's aiding and abet· ting of the communist cause. 
Although Holzer acknowledged that he does not fed the ACLU is part ofa great communist conspiracy, he said he does feel the organization favors Soviet causes and is against American values. He cites the "Walter Polovchak case as yet anot· her example of the ACLU attempt to advance interests of communism at the expense ofAmerican values." 
Holzer said, "We have to fight these people at every turn just as we beat them in the Polovchak case to save Walter's life" because they (the ACLU) possess an "undeserved hypocritical reputation as the defender and savior of the Bill of Rights and thus individual rights in America." 
"The ACLU doesn't deserve to use in its name the concept civil liberties, let alone the description American in its name," added Hol­zer. 
Morris pointed out that several of the speakers were from non­Catholic schools, signifying that philosophy is no longer contained only in the area of secular thought. 
In putting together the con­ference, Morris said he engaged the assistance of the Notre Dame Center for Philosophy of Religion, directed by philosophy professor Alvin Plantinga. After receiving a grant from the center, Morris suc­cessively applied for an additional grant from the National Endow­ment of Humanities. 
The conference will be open to all members of the Notre Dame com­munity and will continue through tomorrow. 
FULLER HORIZONS 
VOID PRCX:FSSING/SEX::mn'ARIAL SERVICES Pick-up/Delivery and Discounts Available 
SPEX:!IALIZING IN: Dissertations -Theses -Reports Sttrlent Profiles -Resumes -Ietters 
"Professional papers at affordable rates" 
219-291-5556 


~ 
The Observer !Hec:tor Marmo
You are here 

An unidentified student stops to examine a map which describes a project of the Urban Studies Program at Saint Mary's. The pro­ject she looks at is just one part ofa large display. 


Vote 
continued from page 1 

the HPC's vote. I expected problems within the HPC." 
"The constitution presented is flawed in some major ways," said Healy. "For example, according to the constitution, the senate only will propose and adopt any amend· ments. No one else has a check on their powers. For the HPC to give up that right would be a tremendous er­ror. 
"We recently conducted a poll, the results of which will be run in 
THE GUTHRIE THEATER 
Cbarln Dlclllms' splnulldly vlt>ld cbtwactft'S contl! to Uf~ in 
Ibis classic swry ofPip, tM orphan l>oy u>bo ,ll11?U<f U/J to be 
u senllmvm ofMgrral ~pecll:ltiom. 
M 

Jill> PERFORMING ARTS SERIES II A,.A
F~bruary 23, 1986 -8:00 pa ~~~~ 
o•Lauqhlin Audlt.oriu. ............... 01 .. 
For Ticket lnfo.-..tion ......_.,.~_. 
Call 284·4626 __..,.,.-. 
our next student government newsletter. And in this poll we asked what students thought was the most efficient body. The number one answer is the HPC," he said. 
"HPC is a body the students are confident in and to take all their power away would be wrong. The vote is what is what Iexpected and it shows that HPC is very serious about this." 
Healy added that he was glad the proposed constitution did not "just whiz through" HPC because he said that he had some things to say per· taining to it. 


~-~~R­9vlt~ 1.75 9twU&, ~ 2~, G, a, ~o, ~2 f#lvlt 

The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 4 

NASA names director of shuttle program 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Former astronaut Richard Truly was nam­ed yesterday as new director of the battered space shuttle program. He immediately vowed to help find and fix the cause of last month's Challenger disaster so the manned space flight program can resume. 
"If nobody else does it, I will," the two-time shuttle pilot told a 75­minute news conference dominated by questions about the accident and its aftermath. He later added, "I don't have the slightest idea" when the shuttle will fly again. 
Truly's appointment was an­nounced as presidental commission demanded all "Documents, memoranda, or personal notes" of NASA and industry officials who engaged in a hotly debated decision to launch Challenger despite misgivings about cold weather. 
Although NASA calle dthe news conference to announce that Truly would replace Jesse Moore as shut­tle director, many reporters' ques­tions dealt with the probe into the Challenger accident. Moore, whose appointment as director of the Johnson Space Flight Center in Houston had been announced before the accident, said he had no knowledge in the hours before the launch that there had been a heated debate about whether cold weather posed a threat. If he had known, Moore said, "I would certainly have asked a lot of questions." 
An executive of the company that makes the space shuttle booster rockets said its managers initially opposed the cold weather liftoff but withdrew their objec­tions the night before Challenger's ill-fated launch, despite the reserva­tions of at least one engineer. Thomas Russell, an executive in Morton Thiokol's Chicago head­quarters, said Wednesday that new last-minute information persuaded top company managers to approve the launch. He declined to reveal exactly what prompted the com-

pany to withdraw its original objec­
tions. 

Asked if he were prepared to 
''take the fall" if the investigation 
warranted it, Moore replied, "I 
think we're going to let the chips 
fall where they may." 

Truly's appointment was an­nounced by acting NASA ad­ministrator William Graham, who said the former astronaut's dutied would include directing the space agency's own internal probe into the January 28 shuttle disaster and cooperating with the presidental commission. 
Graham, who heads the agency on an acting basis, also disputed reports of infighting within NASA, and said space agency morale is good despite the accident. There have been reports that the White House might want to install a new, permanent head of the agency, but Graham sidestepped a question about whether he wanted that status for himself. He said he was "perfectly willing" to do President Reagan's bidding. 
Truly said he had virtually no first-hand knowledge of what went wrong last month, but suspected there was no single cause of the ac­cident that destroyed Challenger and killed its seven-member crew. He said he expected a chain of events would prove responsible, and said whatever the cause, "we will take action ... to correct it." 
Truly, a naval rear admiral who had a 14-year career as an astronaut, flew on the second shut­tle flight in 1981 and in the eighth flight-aboard Challenger-in 1983. "Welcome back, Dick," Graham said ' in announcing Truly's new duties. 

....-Missing! A Gorilla Skull 
Important to the Anthropology Dept. 
It appears that the above item, missing 
for about two weeks, has been inappropriately 
removedfrom its storage case 
Absolutely no questions asked on its prompt & safe return to the Department (346 O'Shag). 

The Observer /Hector Mareno 
We real cool Notre Dame students John Duffy and Roy not conducive to quad sports, many still got out­Tingley take time out yesterday to stroll near side to walk the campus. 
Cavanaugh Hall. Although the rainy weather was 


Men still in Vietnam 

Associated Press  live Americans we want to account  
for."  
WASHINGTON  -Members of a  Solomon said the delegation does  
congressional delegation just back  not want to raise false hopes among  

from Southeast Asia said Wednes­
day they are convinced Americans 
are still living in Vietnam -but not 
necessarily against their will. 
The group returned Tuesday night from a trip to Hanoi, Bangkok, and a Cambodian refugee camp on the Thai border to press for a full accounting of Americans still missing from the Indochina War. 
Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y., leader of the delegation, said there is an "overwhelming amount" of evidence of Americans living in the region. 
"That doesn't mean that we all know there are live Americans be­ing held against their will," he said at a news conference. "There are 




;J'Uc:N[/c!Jd?cS 
JPW Registration 
Clhu.uda.y, 6 ~10 pm 
..£a9o'Ltwu. dV£w c!J.Je.a.n~ d?oom 9am-8pm ..£a'.Jo'ttwu. dVeuJ D.Je.an1-d?oom 

~atuufay, 4 -8 pm cl/l.l(! Ente.'t thwLL9h §ate 10 
, Please Bring your J.D. You or your parents may register 
families of some 2,400 listed by the Defense Department as still missing in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. He also said the delegation could not discuss specific cases or evidence and emphasized that delegation members had not actual­ly seen any live Americans on their trip. 
"We've received so many live sightings from so many different sources that there just cannot be any question but what they're there. The question is, who are they, how many of them are there, and in what categories are they there? Are they prisoners of war being held against their will? Are they people, Americans, who just stayed there after the war? Or are they deserters?" he added. 
Clarifications 
Because of a breakdown in typesetting equipment, yester­day's Observer contained some typographical errors and arrived late. The problem has not yet been corected and similar pro­blems occurred in today's pro­duction of The Observer. 
Also, a portion of yesterday's front page story concerning a demonstration sponsored by some Howard Hall residents was misleading. The protest was against the University's policy of investing in companies doing business in South Africa. The same story cited the con­struction of similar shacks at another school. The correct title of that school is Dartmouth College. 


~----------------------------,


lBoys From Brazil 
I I I 
Showing this Fri. & Sat. at 7, 9, and 11 
Knights ofColombus Hall 
$1 admission/members free 
1-------------~-----------~~-~L 
Wqe Qlolnnial IJuncnkt Jlnuse 


$1.00 OFF 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN-BAKED APPLEPANCAKES 

OR 


OMLEITE 
With This Ad

The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 5 


In Peking, where snow rarely falls, this pipe­smoking snow panda made its debut this week after the season's first precipitation in China. From the 

U.S. halts direct aid to Philippine regime 
WASHINGTON -A House panel voted unanimously yesterday to halt direct U.S. aid to the government of President Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines and to channel future humanitarian assistance and economic aid through the Roman Catholic church and other private groups. 
Most military aid would go into an escrow account to await "a legitimate government . . . which commands the support of the peo­ple of the Philippines,'' the bill said. 
In voting 9-0 in favor of the legislation, members of the sub­committee on Asian and Pacific Affairs brushed aside objections until presidential emissary Philip Habib returns from Manila to report on his findings . 
Stressing their bipatisan support, four Republicans joined five Democrats in favor of the bill. 
Rep. Stephen Solarz, D-N.Y., the subcommittee chairman said the bill would not be taken up by the full House Foreign Affairs Committee until after Habib returns, so that his findings would be given ample consideration before final passage. 
But Solarz said he felt it was im­portant to act quickly to send a signal to the Philippines that "we will not countenance a stolen elec­tion." 
Two possible ways of getting a legitimate government, Solarz told 

reporters later, would be through a 
new election or "procedures to in­
stall the person who clearly won the 
election ... I'm sure the Filipinos 
have the ingenuity to find a way." 
He said the "dwindling ban" of 
Marcos supporters who should tell 
him he cannot survive without 
American support and should into 
retirement while there is still time." 
A day earlier, the Senate voted 
overwhelmingly in favor of a bipar­
tisan, non-binding resolution 
declaring that the Philippines 
presidential election was fraudulent 
and does not express the sentiments 
of Filipinos. 
Solarz said he had been assured by an intermidiary earlier in the day that the legislation has the support of presidential opposition can­didate Corazon Aquino, who has charged that fraud by Marcos and his supporters deprived her of vic­tory in the Feb. 7 election. 
Solarz, chairman of the House subcommittee, said his bill would channel humanitarian and economic assistance through the Catholic church and other non­government organizations in the Philippines, while placing military aid in an escrow account until "a legitimate government" came to power. 
He said the bill would "send a message to the Philippine people that the United States has withdrawn its support for the Mar­cos regime while continuing its sup­port and assistance for the Philip­pine people." 

Junior Parents 
Lunches starting at. __ •_••'2.95 Dinners starting at... _. _•• _$4.25 
hr open 7 days a week llon.-Tllun.: 11:30 L&-10 ..... Fri.-Sat.: 11:30 L&-11 ,_., 
s.m. &Hetldays 11:30 a.a.-ut 

CIJJilll lPJli[IT~lii\IJ 
CIJIUilmCJ 

•• L I ~r11r, l111111m1• •
• frlllll' IMIIJIIDt 
f•~ru11ry 21" 1111 
1:00 IJ).III. •
• rJ•UIIIDIIII W. 
~~·~~~•riDIICUIII~I 
,.------(j)JI(IlD l1u toDD1 ,_. lllhriiiiJUU cm~a IIIJ-71111 I 
Thll*llto)UI... IIWOib ... 
tor 



unllilldwau 

1 
~ 
1 l 
~ 
1 1 
, 1 1 




The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986-page 6 
t!' 
" 
APPboco
Splish splash 
Two men pilot a rubber raft through the flodded storm brought heavy rains and high winds to much streets of Guerneville, Calif., as other residents ofCalifornia this week. continue to evacuate their flooded homes. A severe 


Ticket 
continued/rom page 1 
oreaks a rule," said Brennan, "Om­budsman will be much easier on the candidate" if the candidate tells Ombudsman soon afterward. 
Ombudsman reserves the right to invalidate a candidate's campaign according to Ombudsman's elec­tion rules. 
Brennan added, "camdidates cannot attend meetings like Freshman Advisory Council. They cannot use meetings for campaign­ing even if they are members of that organization." 
Hall presidents can only in­troduce candidates around the dorm if the president signed an en­dorsement form that is already in Ombudsman's records. "There's a difference between a hall president endorsing a candidate and the hall council doing so,'' he said. 

Potential candidate Bruce Lohman disagreed with the rules concerning no campaigning at government offices or meetings. "I think you (Ombudsman) really cut out possible ways for communica­tion" between a candidate and voters. 
and programming when the two stations are split had not been 'resolved. 
Both Cafarelli and Lanon said 
no definite decision to move the 
station from its current location in 
O'Shaughnessy Hall has been 
made. 
According to Lanon, before ad­ministrators make a final decision on the move, they will bring in specialists to determine whether the move would be beneficial to WVFI­AM. 
Brennan responded, "That is our 
(Ombudsman's) understanding of 
the rules." 
Added Maher Mouasher, Om­
budsman personnel and legal af­
fairs officer, ''The person attending 
the meeting gets an unfair advan­
tage over other candidates. It's just 
a question of equal opportunity." 
Candidates can only campaign during the official period of 12:01 a.m., next Wednesday to 11:59 
p.m. the following Monday. En­dorsements from various student groups only can be solicited during the campaign period. 
The Student Senate set the amount of money a candidate can spend at $125 whch is $30 more than last year's limit. A new rule re­quests the candidates to sign a release form giving Ombudsman the right to check area printers' receipts so no candidate goes over the spending limit. 
Candidates must give their receipts of campaign materials to Ombudsman before the candidates can use the materials, said Bren­nan. Candidates also must give one copy of each campaign poster to Ombudsman before the posters are distributed. 
By the end of March "at the very 
latest," a final decision will have 
been made, Lanon said. If ad­
ministrators decide to relocate 
WVFI-AM, they will then make 
provisions to move the station's 
valuable equipment, she said. 
Neither Lanon nor Beauchamp 
said they knew what would take the 
place of WVFI-AM if ad­
ministrators decided not to move 
the station. 
According to Director of Student Activities Joni Neal, plans had been made to move WVFI-AM to 
************************************************** 
:: The Student Aetivftes Board presents ~ 
* * 
!WINTER FESTIVAL !986! 
~ ~ 
* *
* Monday, Feb. 24 9pm-Midnight * * * 
~ Free bowling at Beacon Bowl ! * * 
~ Free bus transportation leaves main circle at 8:30,9:00,9:30 ! 
* * 
~ !
* Tuesday. Feb. 25 9pm-Midnight * : * Free Outdoor Skating at Stepan Basketball Courts : * 
* * 
* *
! Refreshments, hot chocolate, s'mores, D.J. ~ ~ !
* Thursday. Feb. 27 6pm -9pm * * * 
~ Free Cross Country Skiing on the N.D. golf course ~ 
* * 
: D.J., refreshments and a bonfire provided at the clubhouse. ~ 
* *
* !
* Friday, Feb. 28 9:30pm -12:30am * 
* * 
: 'Life's a Beach' Party in South Dining Hall ! 
* 
Admission is $1 at the dooL Come dressed in beach attire to this *· 

* 
pre-Spring Break bash. Prizes (including a free trip for 2 to * ~ Ft. Lauderdale will be raffled off.) Refreshments and music by the ~ * band 'Cold Drinks' will be provided. * 


* * 
* *
"t-Saturday, March 1 9pm-Midnight i :* Undergraduate Night at Senior Alumni Club * ~ * * 
: Co-sponsored with the Around the Corner Club. Admission is free. ~ ! Refreshments and band 'Cold Drinks' provided. ~ 
* *
* * 
* * 
t************************************************* 




WVFI 
continuedfrom page 1 
that 17 transmitters, each costing $700, also are needed "for the best possible situation." The station now has 10 transmitters in workable condition, he said. 
Cafarelli said he didn't know the chances of WVFI-AM receiving any funds or tghe amount the sta­tion would receive if the funds were appropriated. He did say, however, that he is "going for the goal of get­ting enough money to replace a couple of things, but that wouldn't be enough." 
According to Cafarelli, if the funds are found, all the transmitters and couplers would not be replaced at the same time. "It would be nice if we could put it in tip-top shape in one shot," he said. "But that may be too costly and some of it may not be necessary. 
"We have to determine ... which equipment will be replaced first," he continued. Dorms with the worst reception would receive first priori­ty, Cafarelli said. 
Besides increasing WVFI-AM's budget and replacing its transmitting system, Daniel also proposed that the station's schedule d move to the third floor of LaFor­tune be delayed. 
Daniel said such a move would create several problems for WVFI­AM because it now shares some equipment and music programming with its counterpart WSND-FM. Daniel said the question of which station would retain the equipment 
Administrators then will deter­mine what costs would be involved in separating the stations, said Lanon. They will also speak with staff members who work for both stations, such as Thesing, she said. "We'll be getting a lot of feedback from people on that. ... It's a big decision." 
LaFortune's third floor because ad­ministrators wanted all the media togethtif on one floor. The Observ'Cr, the Dome and Scholastic are already located there. 
Beauchamp said he had re­quested Daniel's propsal for infor­mational purposes but had formed no opinion on it. 
Focus On America's Fut re~~ 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 


• 


Accent 
Friday, February 21, 1986-page 7 

A son's love vindicates mother's sacrifice 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 

A month after meeting him, he gave me one ofhis paintings: a self-portrait, full ofdarkness, as he was coming off a drug trip. By now, I was feeling scared for his future. 
He graduated, and for about a year and a half, I lost touch with him. Then a phone call cam&: would I be willing to give the homlry at his wedding? So, in New York, I saw Kevin again, and met his bride-to­be. Kevin talked ofhis family, and again I felt the anger from a young man who didn't seem too fond of his parents. 
Back in the '70s, a number of students were on grim terms with their parents. The Vietnam War and the counter-culture were tearing families apart. None ofthis social fermentation visibly affected Kevin and his siblings. Kevin always seemed so much ofa loner, it surprised me to see him as the member ofan Irish family circus. He had four brothers, three of whom also graduated from Notre Dame, and a sister. Kevin was the second oldest, much beloved son. He was not the rootless, homeless, neglected, castaway child I had mistaken him for. His is one ofthe greatest family-love stories I have 
ever been a part of. I had gotten a 
mistaken impression from the way 
Kevin presented himself. Notre 
Dame students, I have learned, are 
different creatures when you see 
them at home than they appear to 
be on campus. 
I met Kevin's parents at the wed­ding rehearsal dinner: they were charming people. Yet Kevin told me there had been trouble at home earlier. His mother had almost decided not to come. He was angry at his mother for threatening to spoil the party. He also wasn't pleased with his father. He wasn't sure who was to blame for whatever was going wrong in his parents' marriage. 
From the moment I met his mot­her -a very bright lawyer who gave up her legal career to raise a family ­I detected a tenseness in her as in one who has decided that the show must go on, even if the show re­quired from her a lot ofpersonal courage. 
This is not a mystery I am unfold­ing, only a bit offamily history about gifted people, among whom misunderstandings occur. Kevin's mother, you see, was a very sick woman, ill with one ofthe afflic­tions that eventually paralyze the muscles, and almost seem to turn the body to stone. 
This proud, brave woman kept the secret to herself, not wanting to be the center ofattention and sym­pathy. They, not knowing, resented her holding herselfback from the good times she was entitled to as a professional woman and a doctor's wife. They thought ofher as being "difficult" in a way that left her' husband and children lonely for her former exuberance and sparkle. 
For eight years, a struggle ofwills went on in this beautiful Irish home whose queen seemed to have abd­icated from her place ofhonor. Finally, one day, she fell, breaking her hip. In the hospital, her condi­tion was diagnosed. The woman herselfdidn't knwo for sure what her health problem was. She had suffered as a martyr, offering up her pain, in the Irish way, for the sake of her family. The family seemed to breathe a sigh ofrelief, finding out that the mother hadn't deliberately withdrawn from them. All that anger had represented frustrated love. Now pride, and love with understanding in it, swept through the family. The Irish know how to honor their fathers and mothers. They know how to bring tender­ness and patient watching to a hospital bed where the victim is 
prevented from speaking by the respirator she is attached to. They know how to be grateful to God for sending them a saint to be the angel in the house. 
There are 80,000 stories in the Emerald City, and this is one of them. The doctor and his wife sent four oftheir sons to Notre Dame. Through them, I watched the drama offamily life as it was drawn into the fellowship ofthe Cross, and into the victory oflove emergingfrom all kinds oftroubles sorted through. 
Twice, I have gone to the cemetary with Kevin's family; first, for his mother's burial, and last year, for his father's funeral. Last March, in a Westchester cemetary, those six siblings recited in unison a poem which their parents required them to learn as children: "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening." 
The famous last lines -
Tbe woods are lovely, dark and deep. ButI bavepromises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, Andmiles to go before I sleep. 
-seemed a fitting tribute at a doc­
tor's burial. 
Kevin, with his three children, has come a long way from his days as an art student covered with paint. He's still not taking good care ofhimself. However, he knows now he loves his parents. I think that became dear to him when he found out how his mother's love gave strength to her family, because she had the Catholic outlook that uses sickness as a prayer. 
I thought all this was worth men­tioning onJunior Parents' Weekend. 
I 
met Kevin 1 5 years ago one 
afternoon while walking my dog. 
Near the Huddle, I heard a student 
calling the dog's name. Turning 
around, I saw Kevin petting the dog. 
From the look he was giving, I 
could tell he wanted to talk to me, 
so I went back to introduce myself. 
He was an art major, wearing 
hand-me-down clothes all spattered 
with paint. He hadn't bothered to 
get himself a room, so he slept any 
place, on campus or off, where he 
could find a bed. Because ofa car 
accident in high school, he had a 
bad leg for which he was supposed 
to get therapy, though ofcourse he 
never bothered. Kevin was not a lad 
who took real good care ofhimself. 
His mother was a lawyer, and his 
father was a doctor, he said. He 
didn't seem very pleased with his 
parents. He wasn't sure, in fact, that 
he even loved his parents. He talked 
with a bad stutter, as a result ofthat 
car accident which cost him a year 
in the hospital. He came across like 
an orphan abandoned on the 
doorstep during a winter storm. If 
someone doesn't keep an eye on 
him, I thought, he will quickly 
perish from self-neglect. 

The bells are ringing as Irish receive Sugar Bowl bid 
This is the 19th episode of The Obser­ver's serial publication ofthe Notre Dame story, "The Gipper's Ghost."In last week's episode, Nicki Summers, the sports editor of The Observer and steady ofDutch Reagan (the ghost ofGeorge Gipp), had been puzzled by some ofReagan'sfootball anecdotes. When he recalled playing Val­paraiso, she curiously checked the Notre Dame gridiron records-andfound out that the Fighting Irish had last played Valpar­aiso in 1920. 


An invitation 
"Today's the day, Father Romano!" said 
an exuberant "Wild Bill" Fallon. 
Fallon could hardly contain his excite­
ment. He had lived and breathed Notre 
Dame from the very first day he was born. 
"Wild Bill" often said he was quite proud of 
the fact that he shared his birthday, March 
4, with the legendary Knute Rockne. 
"You are going to accept a bowl bid, 
aren't you, Father?" Fallon said, covering all 
the bases. Fallon, Charlene Selleck and 
Father Martin Cockrell had assembled in 
the university president's office. They 
didn't want to take a chance on missing a 
telephone call from a bowl committee. Any 
bowl committee. 
"Ofcourse, Bill. They only question is, 
which one? We might receive invitations 
from the Cotton, Orange and Sugar Bowl 
committees." 
"True. The Orange Bowl committee 
attended last week's game," said Father 
Cockrell. "A spokesman for their commit· 
tee told me the Irish were receiving serious 
consideration. However, he said they prefer 
to get Penn State, and since they're on our 
schedule already, we probably won't get 
invited if Penn State accepts." 
"Frankly, I'd almost prefer somewhere 
else. I'm not sure Notre Dame will be very 
welcome in Miami after what happened earlier in the season," Fallon said. 
"Well, that seems to leave the Sugar and the Cotton Bowls," said Father Romano "Truthfully, I think the alumni would even welcome a trip to the Cherry Bowl in the Pontiac Silverdome." 
The men engaged in excited conversa­tion for the next several minutes, reviewing the day's games and speculating about probable bowl matchups. 

The telephone rang. The conversation stopped immediately. 
Father Romano let the phone ring twice, then he picked up the handset. He listened for some time, then spoke into the phone, 
"Yes, sir. Thank you very much for your 
kind invitation. The University of Notre 
Dame football team would be very proud to 
participate in the Sugar Bowl Classic." 
He listened for a minute, then politely 
said goodbye. 
"Did he say who'll we'll play?" asked 
Charlene Selleck. The sports information 
director was seated at Father Romano's 
word processor and had already begun 
keyboarding a news release. 
"No. They expect an answer shortly from 
their first choice. He said it will be an­
nounced on ABC's next sports update." 
Fallon turned on the television set while 
Father Romano dialed a phone number. 
"Who are you calling? The student 
ombudsman service?" joked Father Cock­
rell. 
"No. But University presidents are 
allowed to wake up a few echoes now and 
then, too, aren't they?" · 
Minutes later, on Father Romano's in­
struction, the ringing ofthe bells of the 
Sacred Heart Church carillon coincided 
with the sports report. 
The announcer intoned, "It's been a great 
day for the Fighting Irish. First, the Irish 
corraled the Mustangs ofSMU by shutting 
them out 48 to 0. Dutch Reagan -the 
Gipper's Ghost -scored his l 7th touch­
down ofthe season." 
He paused while the graphics changed to 
show a sugar bowl. 
"Second, moments ago University of 
Notre Dame officials accepted a bid to the 
Sugar Bowl Classic to be played in the 
Superdome in New Orleans. The Irish 
opponents will be the Tigers of LSU." 
"The Tigers!" Fallon exclaimed. 
A fairy tale season was falling into place. 
The Irish were certain to move up in the 
polls again this week. Once again, the 
students could cautiously begin kidding 
their friends and relatives that Notre Dame 
played in the "Top Ten" conference. 
Only three obstacles remained. No. 2 
Penn State. No. 1 USC. And now, No. 3 l.SU. 
And, perhaps, one very suspicious female 
sportswriter. 
To be continued .. . ,_""11lc ~~-........w-.,.,..,lobcft ~"'1~" b db7ac-PtSth' 1Co. .....b7 

pmcst 'oa. 
j j 
, 
, ~ 

,
,
,
,

,
, 
,1 
1 




~i~~~_()__i__ll__t___________________Fri-da-y,-Fe-bru-~--21-,1-98-6--pa-ge_s 
'I. 
~ Passion for quotes leads to daily contributions 
What do Father Hesburgh, Billy Joel, Presi­believes in him may not die but may have eter­was born in 1964 and she has saved the don't think the son-of-a-... (Vice-President dent Reagan, Mary Tyler Moore, Gandhi, Dig­nal life." Quotable Quotes pages ofthe Reader's Digest Nixon) knows the difference between telling ger Phelps, and Anonymous have in common? Quotations are often used to support an since 1960. the truth and lying." Wouldn't American his­They have all been quoted within the past opinion or shape another's opinion. In daily Each Sunday night when I decide on the tory be different if voters in the 1968 elec­year in Quote ofthe Day. arguments or discussions, people commonly quotes for the next week, I first find a quote tions would have believed President 

use quotations in an effort to change our that relates to a national holiday if one falls Truman's warning? opinions. In fact, "if in the last few years you during the week. Columbus Day is one I par· Truman also once said, "Everybody has the
Tom Darrow haven't discarded a major opinion or acquired ticularly remember. I looked through my right to express what he thinks." When it a new one, check your pulse. You may be sources and could not find a Columbus quote. comes right down to it, this is why I enjoy dead" (Gelett Burgess). However, when Then I went to the library and after a few doing the Quote of the Day. "I quote others
guest column reading a quote, "neither believe nor reject hours I started to realize that Columbus did only to better express myself' (Michel de anything because any other persons ... not have much to say. I wondered ifColumbus Montaigne). Even so, just as Marshal Mcluhan rejected or believed it. Your own reason is the was a disciple ofConfucius who said, "Silence said, "I don't necessarily agree with everyth­
Ralph Waldo Emerson, a frequently quoted only oracle given to you by heaven" (Thomas is a friend who will never betray." Finally I ing I quote." Ultimately, "each time a quota­writer, once stated, "I hate quotations." Yet Jefferson). Indeed, "man is what he believes" found a passage that I considered thought· tion makes a reader think about a problem in a Emerson also concedes that "by necessity, by (Anton Chekhov). provoking and appropriate for the day: "Our new way, I shall have achieved my aim" proclivity, and by delight, we all quote. Next Ioffered to provide the Quote ofthe Day for Lord gave me a favorable wind, land appeared (George Seldes). to the originator ofa good sentence is the first the Observer this year because I have a large to us, and we gave many thanks to Our Lord." Finally, in order to highlight some ofthe in­quoter of it." People use quotations in their collection of quotes and I am very intrigued After I find a quote for the national holidays, tellectual, humorous, or controversial daily conversations, to express an opinion, to by th€m. For the most part, each quote is I then try to find quotes that complement ot­remarks that are said each day at Notre Dame, be funny, or even just to sound educated. found through research. Ironically, as I have her events taking place in the world or on the Campus Quote has been introduced. Quotations are also found in books, learned, "when you take stufffrom one writer campus. These include such things as the Ideally, a quote from around campus will be textbooks, research papers, newspapers, it's called plagarism, but when you take it from American Cancer Society's Smokeout, the an­featured each week. So, if a faculty member, television shows, and wall posters. Quotations many writers, it's called research" (Wilson niversary of Roe vs. Wade, World Food Day, staff member, or student says something even find their way into sporting events. Have Mizner). I have read a couple of books of and even an upcoming football or basketball worthy of the Campus Quote, feel free to send you ever seen the man with the rainbow quotes including the Oxford Dictionary of game. With these key days matched with an it to Viewpoint. Along with the Viewpoint colored hair in the crowd of major sporting Quotations and the Great Thoughts and I also appropriate quote, I balance the remaining Department's policy on letters to the editor, I events on television? He always wears a shirt use some quotes from the Quotable Quotes days with quotes from literature, religion, hope to use 99.9 percent ofthe quotes that are that reads "John 3:16." What he is indirectly section ofthe Reader's Digest. I am not sure if music, comedy, or just interesting thoughts. sent in. But don't quote me on it! saying is that, "God so loved the world that he my motherconditioned me as a child to have a For instance, one interesting quote comes gave his only begotten Son that whoever passion for quotes, but I do find it odd that J from Harry S Truman, who once warned, "I Tom Dan-ow is a junioraccounting major. 
Community was discussed. 

The article quoted a CLC member at the meeting to say that "most students do not know about activities sponsored by the Chris­tian Life (Community) due to the lack of publicity, lack of student attendance at meetings and general lackofinterest ... " This is simply not true. 
The CLC Coordinator of Social Justice, Heidi Cerneka, said that many of the ap­pointed CLC representatives had not been at­tending the CLC meetings on a regular basis last semester. Because of this, information about activities which CLC sponsored was not effectively communicated to the Hall/Class Councils. Despite this communication problem, however, the community has ac­tually doubled in size from last year. This in­creased student participation has increased the variety of activites CLC has been able to sponsor, such as an educational trip to Ap­palachia over fall break and a Mini-Urban Plunge into South Bend. 
Over the past few years there has been con­siderable tension and confusion concerning the role and responsibilities of the CLC Hall/Class representatives. In an effort to eliminate this confusion, members of CLC presented a proposal to the Board of Gover­nance which clarified the role of the representatives to the councils and of the Commissioner to the Board. 
During the discussion it became clear that what is needed on the Board and on the Coun­cils is not representatives from CLC, but representatives from Campus Ministry. These two groups are separate entities. Therefore, CLC and the Board agreed that effective next year, members of CLC will no longer hold positions in Student Government. 
A proposal to incorporate representatives from Campus Ministry to the Board ofGover­nance and the Hall/Class Councils will soon· be drafted by members of the Board and Campus Ministry, not by Campus Ministry and CLC. 
CathDable Christian Life Commtssioner 
Campus quote 
"Be kind: it is the greatest gift you can give, and it doesn't cost anything." 
Ann landers Address atNotre Dame Feb. 10, 1986 


ND's teaching methods are not 'non-Christian' 
DearEditor: 
In the Feb. 1 7 issue, David Fortin pointed 
out what he felt were "non-Christian" teach­
ings by the Notre Dame theology department, 
re-opening the old fundamentalist debates 
again. Fortin is not being fair in his treatment 
ofhis professor's ideas by oversimplifying the 
issues in his statements. 
Fortin claims, "I find theology professors who teach that the Old Testament is just a group of borrowed myths." What the teacher in question was aiming at is probably that the Old Testament consists primarily oforal tradi­tions handed down through the generations. For instance, there are two different creation stories in Genesis, suggesting two different traditions. 
"I find priests who accept evolution as fact." Although evolution has not been proven to be true, one cannot assume it is wrong. Whether the Bible is symbolic or literal about God's methods of creation is unknown. Evolution and creation are rt.ot entirely incompatible; who can say God did not create the first cell and let matters proceed from there? 
"I hear of priests teaching that Christ was not the Son of God, but a man used by God." This is a paradox which has remained un­solved, that Jesus is "like us in everything but sin" (human) yet "the Son of God" (divine). But this concept is not so strange, for we were "created in God's image"; imagine Adam before his fall. If our opinion of humanity is that we cannot be divine and human, then we have little faith in God's saving power. 
"I find the use of Catholic bibles that at­tempt to explain miracles as natural oc­curences." Where is the distinction between "natural" and "supernatural"? The Earth is natural, yet created by God. Physics is natural, yet set in motion by God. Bibles with more "mundane" views of some miraculous occur­rences are not blasphemous; they simply 

Doonesbury 
ffHVSTHAV£3 NO, NO, NOTAT 
AWCtJc! MY.1 TAKeN YOU~-AU! I 7HREIAJ 
WHAT~ 
Y{1JGOINGt 7HE.~ IN 7HE ~INA 
tvfl?. TO JI6TJUL THe IA.IIatSlfJd 
f"Of<. Hl3f(!; ~ ~ I 7V51375, i4££K! M155. 

' 
( ( ( 
( 


P.O. BoxQ 
show how God works subtly rather than in bold, apparent strides. 
Fortin should label these teachings "non­Fortin" rather than "non-Christian." He must first be certain of his interpretations of his professor's lectures and then realize that eryone has his own faith, and must answer these difficult paradoxes for himself. 
Narciso]aramillo Cavanaugh Hall 


No evidence to support non-Christian claims 
DearEditor: 
In reply to David Fortin'sletter to the editor 
(Feb. 1 7, 1986): Fortin, you have made a great 
mistake in calling Notre Dame's teaching met­
hods non-Christian, simply because you put 
forth no evidence to support this assumption. 
First ofall, you complain that the Old Testa­
ment is taught as a group of myths. Actually, 
the Old Testament is full of"myths," but these 
"myths" are included for a reason. Ifyou knew 
anything about the ancient Jews, you would 
know that most of them were illiterate. 
Therefore, they told stories instead ofreading 
books. This gave them an increased awareness 
of symbols and figurative language. They un­
derstood a complex concept better if it was 
symbolized than if it was stated as a pure, 
simple fact. 
Wben the Jews learned about such a com­
plex being as God, they were tat~ght in 
parables andfables. These were originally told 
byword ofmouth, but when the time came to 
record God's teachings, the authors wrote 
them down the best way they knew how. The 
Old Testament was written byJewsfor Jews, 
not for scrupulous, modern-day man. 
You a)so complain about priests who ac­
cept evolution as fact. This does not mean 
they are disputing God's creation of the 
world. Isn't is possible that the whole process 
ofevolution could have originated from God? 
If so, can't the theory of evolution coincide 

with the Book of Genesis? Again, you insist that the whole Bible must be taken word-for­word, and you are wrong. 
In Genesis, the fish and the birds were created on the fifth day, and the animals and human beings were created on the sixth day. According to Darwin's theory, simple life was first, then fish, reptiles, birds, mammals, and finally man. It seems that these are essentially in the same order. However, you might argue that God created the world in six days and rested on the seventh. That is true, but who is to say that the author meant a 24-hour day? Cannot "day" be figurative, therefore representing a longer period of time? If so, there is nothing wrong with believing in evolution and the creation theory at the same time. 
A third complaint is, if I may quote you, "I hear ofpriests teaching that Christ was not the Son of God, but a man used by God." Do you always believe what you hearsecond-hand? In order to believe something like that, we would have to hear it straight from the horse's mouth. Even if this rumor is true, one cannot generalize the opinions of a few to be the opinions ofall. 
So, Fortin, please refrain from making such heavy statements in the future, unless you know what you are talking about and you base your judgments on more than just rumors. 
Michael Gaffney Patrick Dunne St. Edwards Hall 


Participation in CLC has increased this year 
DearEditor: 

I ain writing in response to the article in the Tuesday, Feb. 18 edition of the Observer en­titled, "Saint Mary's Board notes Hurley valentine, health update." This article in­cluded a recap of the Feb. 1 7 meeting of the Board of Governance at Saint Mary's. At this meeting a proposal from the Christian Life 
Garry Trudeau 
&XP051JRE,NATCH! 
/JJHY 7Hc HVR!(f? At<T, SCHMAFU! 
I PlANTAPOUBU3 
!XJNT 't(){JPlANT HEY, ldiOAile 
lJPTWN/~OP&N­
70 I£T YOIJR. YOUPf301't.e 
A~GH!
lNG 8Y 7Hc FAU..! 
AI<TMA77JJ?C? ANYti/AY? 
=.\1' 
" I ' 



A celebration of two families 
ALEX PELTZER 
features writer 
T. 
he 34th annualJunior Parents' Weekend is 
expected to be the biggest ever, according to 
JPW Chairman Dan Bender. 
Although the events have remained basically 
the same over the past three decades, the 
weeken·d has recently enjoyed an increase in 
participation. This year 4,200 arc set to attend the 
President's Dinner Saturday night under the north 
dome ofthe ACC. Five years ago the dinner only 
attracted 2,800 parents and students. 
Bender attributes this increase mainly to the 
unity ofthe junior class. "I think our class has a committee has worked so hard at making this a successfulJPW." Bender says that involvement in organizing was more than he expected. "It was incredible the amount ofpeople involved. People are still coming up to me, wanting to help out," Bender says. 

Pedi says that because ofthe increased par· ticipation new locations for the events have had to be found. He says over the past seven years most ofthe events have had to be moved into places such as the ACC instead ofSacred Heart Church and Stepan Center. He also says thatJPW started out so small that the events were held mostly in Rockne Memorial and the Chautauqua Ballroom. 
committee agreed to pay for his air fare. They found out later that instead ofgetting an in­dividual ticket, he simply chartered out an entire plane. 
"They ended up spending about S1,800 for what should have been a $200 plane ticket," Bender said. 
This year's speaker at the brunch will be head football coach Lou Holtz, so the committee will not have to worry about exorbitant travel costs. 
Bender says the event that changes the most from year to year is the cocktail dance. 
"This year we have a great theme, 'A Taste of Broadway,'" Bender says. "We have different booths that have food that corresponds with a 


real sense ofunity,'' Bender says. "We don't have too many people that are apathetic." 
Bender estimates that about 75 to 80 percent of the class will be taking part in at least one ofthe weekend's events. 
Father Mario Pedi, who served as coordinator for pastJPWs, says the reason for the increased participation is because the weekend is in the hands ofthe students. 
"The students who are running it are the ones responsible. The sophomores who work for it see what it's like and want the same thing for them­selves the next year,'' Pedi says. 
}oni Neal, director ofstudent activities, echoes Pedi's claim. "The nicest thing about this is that its all organized by the students. The organizing 

But the events themselves have stayed the same over the years. A cocktaildance Friday night, the President's Dinner Saturday night and closing brunch Sunday morning has been the basic pattern. 
But Bender says there was room for the com­mittee to make some changes in the itinerary. 
Bender says that the committee got most ofits ideas from looking at past committees' reports. The reports had recommendations on what was successful and what was not. 
"They told me to watch out for people charter­ing their own planes,'' he says. He explains that two years ago Rocky Bleier was invited to speak at the closing brunch. Bleier said that he we would come but that he needed a plane ride out. So, the certain Broadway show." He says there will also be multi-sided video screens showing clips from the shows. 
The cocktail dance kicks off the weekend tonight at 9 in the south dome ofthe ACC-but Saturday is expected to be the biggest day. In the morning and afternoon, each ofthe colleges will hold workshops that pattnts can attend. Also Saturday there will be open houses at many offices around the campus. 
Jim Domagalski, junior class president, says the workshops are valuable because "it gives the two groups who influence your future the most, parents and professors, the chance to meet." 
Highlighting Saturday night will be the Presi­dent's Dinner. University President Father 

see JPW, page l 


Happenings-page 2 Friday, February 21, 1986 

Guthrie Theater brings Dickens classic to stage 
Special to Tile Obsener 
I 
t's the English major's dream: absorbing a major work of literature in a few short hours. 
English majors and non-English 
majors alike will have that chance 
Sunday when the Guthrie Theater 
of Minneapolis presents a stage 
adaptation ofCharles Dickens' 19th 
century classic, "Great Expecta­
tions." 
Presented as part ofthe john M. 
Duggan Performing Arts Series, 
"Great Expectations" is being 
produced at Saint Mary's for its 
O'Laughlin Auditorium staging with 
the support of the Indiana Arts 
Commission and the National En­
dowment for the Arts. 
A perennial favorite, "Great Ex­
pectations" depicts the adventures 
of a young boy named Pip on his 
journey from the blacksmith's forge 
of his youth to London as a 
gentleman. The story is filled with 
colorful characters and has a plot 
with much mystery and intrigue. 
Originally intended to be read 
aloud, this stage-adapted version 
brings Dickens' characters to life in 
a manner not usually experienced. 
The novel has been adapted by Barbara Field, who is responsible for the highly successful Guthrie adaptation of"A Christmas Carol," 
''It's a showcase for the actors... many of the ac­tors play two or three roles. '' 
Stephen Kanee 
another Dickens novel. The Guthrie Theater expects "Great Expecta­tions" to be as successful a produc­tion as "A Christmas Carol" was 10 years ago. 
"It's a perfect play for The Guthrie Theater to share with the rest of the country," Director Step­hen Kanee said. "It's a showcase for the actors. There are a multitude of fascinating characters, and many of the actors play two or three roles. It's exciting drama and very theatri­cal." 
The Guthrie's style with the play, similar to the recent British produc­tion of"Nicholas Nickleby," is in the form of a series ofdramatic scenes linked by narration and music. The cast, playing multiple roles, comments on the action and moves the props, enabling the story to be told smoothly and evenly. 
Set design is byJack Barkla and Jack Edwards is responsible for costumes. 
The performance of"Great Ex­pectations" will begin at 8 p.m. Admission is S6.50, S5.50 and 
S4. 50, and a Sl discount is offered 
to senior citizens. Admission is free 
to Saint Mary's students. Further 
information can be obtained by 
calling the O'Laughlin box office at 
284-4626. 




Acclaimed printmaker exhibits retrospective at Snite Museum 
STEP S
HANIE IE GEL 
features writer 
T 
he O'Shaughnessy galleries of 
The Snite Museum ofArt is 
literally overtlowing with big, 
bizarre, brightly colored prints. 
Organized by the Cedar Rapids 
Museum ofArt, this collection of 
intaglios, engravin~. and drawings, 
entitled "Mauricio Lasansky : A 
Retrospective Exhibition," will 
remain on view at The Snite 
through March 30. The exhibit is 
primarally composed of Lasansky's 
unique "Color Intaglios," an excit­
ing and startling combination of 
bold, colorful geometric shapes and 
expressive human features within a 
single work. 
Lasansky, a printmaker ofinterna­
tional acclaim, is an Argentinian­
born American who arrived in New 
York City in 1943 by virtue ofa 
Guggenheim Fellowship. Since that 
JPW 
continuedfrom page 1 
Theodore Hesburgh, who has 
presided over all theJPWs to 
date, will again be the featured 
speaker. Domagalski will also 
speak at the dinner. 
Domagalski says that he 
thought ofthe weekend as a 
chance for the students' two 
families to meet. "You teU your 
parents about the friends you 
have here at school, your family 
NIG TCLUB 

Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 7 nights a week DRINKING and DANCING 9:00pm -3:00am 
Located on U.S. 331'1. at North VIllage Mall 77­

i{ 
lr
t,, 
' 
time he has helped to establish several new techniques in printmaking in the United States and Europe. He has received numerous honorary doctorates and art awards as well as participating in over 140 one-man exhibits around 
the world. 
This nationally-touring "retrospective exhibit" demonstrates Lasansky's develop­ment, both technically and in his revolutionary expression ofrecur­rent Vtemes and ideas from 1944 through 1983. The chronological arrangement ofthe prints enhances a full appreciation of the growth of his artistic personality in the years since he first came to America. The progression moves from difficult black-and-white abstracts, through earth-toned contemplative studies ofclose relatives, to separate pastel static figures and geometric, "computer game" space odyssies, finally concluding in the aforemen­
at Notre Dame, but often times they don't have an opportunity to get out and see our home away from home. 
"JPW gives us an opportunity to share our families with our friends," he says. 
Bender says he thought it helped the relationship between student and parent. "I think it helps the parent-student relationship bc(;ause it expands it. They get to see where you've been living for the past three years," he says. 

tioned fantastic combinations. 
Lasansky's earlier works, which comprise the beginning of the exhibit, are predominantly stark, contorted abstracts with such frightening, specific titles as "Dachau" ( 1946). Although he proceeds the following year to more personal colored prints ofhis wife and children, his works still retain the static, reserved quality of the abstracts, giving them an aura of separation from the viewer. In the 1960s, Lasansky begins to experi­ment with other mediums and larger groups offigures, and seems to be succesful in portraying a new theme of introspection within a drawing of a group of poverty-stricken Mexicans, "Apuntos Mexicanos 1-3." 
In the primary colors and scat· tered forms and numbers of Lasansky's work in the '70s and '80s, it seems that he has come up with a new idea all together; however, the distressing. contemplative human features, mixed with richly-colored shapes and textured surfaces, ac­tually combine many ofthe ele­ments of his less arresting works. 
The "Kaddish" series from 1976 
makes a powerful impact with its 
recurrent theme oflarge pigeons in 
various stages offlight, settling on a 
head partially obscured with float­
ing shapes. hces here, as in most of 
his work, run the gamut ofemo­
tions -from static, near serenity, to 
terror -in one case taking the form 
of death masks, a screaming clown 
and a seeming devil. Lasansky's 
work can be called bizarre -or, to 
do it justice -insightful, interesting, 
impressive and inspiring. 

"Great Expectations, ••playing tomorrow night at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Happy '21', Tom, One Day Early! 
Mom, Dad, Mike, Bill 


, ....,.,....................................,.JV'....J"ri'..~...-JV'J'rl'. A T '1' .b N )"' I 0 N SENIORS ATTENTION SENIORS 



'86 days till Graduation 
Tonight Feb. 21 at St. Hedwig's


Celebratl•on'' 



Happenings-page 3 Friday, February 21, 1986 

Gere moves in fast world 
of media image-makers 
P.A.CIMINO 
features writer 

G 
etting elected to public office is no easy 
task. It requires huge amounts oftime, 

strong financial backing and the ability to 
know what will sell to voters and how to sell 

it. And those candidates who are truly serious about their campaigns go to one man, be­cause he deals in "Power." 
"Power," the newest film from Twentieth Century Fox and director Sidney Lumet, is about that man, Pete St. john (Richard Gere of"An Officer and a Gentleman" fame). St. john possesses the intelligence and ruthless passion to create winning electoral cam­paigns regardless ofhis candidate's political alignment. He has no regard for the needs of the voters and will endeavor to create a successful campaign for any client who has the necessary financial backing. 
The s~ory begins in a South American country where St. john is organizing a cam­paign for a darkhorse socialist party can­didate. During one ofthe candidate's speeches, an explosion occurs in the crowd and wounds several people. St. John's can­didate runs to one ofthe wounded citizens, cradles the poor, dying man's head in his arms and in the process stains his shirt with blood. Meanwhile, St. john, ever the con­summate professional, films the whole ordeal with only the thought that this opportunity to show his candidate's compassion will be 
Movies 


• 
The Student Activities Board presents "'St. Elmo's Fire" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Star­ring Rob Lowe, Mare Winningham, Emilio Estevez, Demi Moore, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy and Andrew McCarthy as a tightly knit group ofrecent college graduates who face their "freshmen year of life." '"St. Elmo's Fire' snaps and crackles with life... it has incandescent ensemble acting that lights up the screen. I loved it," reported Katie Kelly of ABC Television. Admission to the 7, 9:1 5 and 11 :30 p.m. shows is $1.50. 

• 
The department ofcommunications and theater presents"DeathWatch" tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. In a futuristic society fascinated with death, Romy Schneider is a terminally ill woman per­suaded by the ratings-hungry media to have her death shown on lV. "Death Watch" is a thought-provoking vision of humanity corrupted by a computerized, modern world. Starring Harvey Keitel and Max von Sydow, the film was produced by Bertrand Tavernier. Tickets to the 7:30 and 9:30p.m. shows are 11.50 



impossible for the opposition to fight. Five minutes later he hops aboard a private jet headed for New York as ifanother day's work has been finished. 
With an opening such as this, one should expect the various location changes (and numerous shots ofSt.john's jet landing and taking off) which prevail throughout the film. In between St. John's work with senatorial candidates in Washington (both the state and D.C.), New Mexico and Illinois, the audience is introduced to his foreign correspondent ex-wife Oulie Christie), his secretary (Kate Capshaw) and a former partner named Wilfred Buckley (Gene Hackman). The developments surrounding these characters and some ofSt. John's clients ultimately force him to make the most important decisions of his life, leading to a climax which is both interesting and unexpected. 
The film is filled with excellent acting talent including Denzel Washington ("St. Elsewhere"), veteran E.G. Marshall, Beatrice Straight ("Poltergeist") and Michael Learned. The cast and director Lumet pull together to offer a splendid film with some good poten­tial and·an interesting, although somewhat jumpy, plot. 
On the whole, "Power" is a fine film and Gere is at his usual best conveying the turbulent world ofan emotional media consultant. "Power" is a chance for him to portray a ruthless character with the will to win, and he does it superbly. Ifnothing else, his fans will totally enjoy this movie. 
In our age ofinfluential media, "Power" has a message to convey ofwhich the public probably should be aware: media makes men. This point is well explicated and coupled with great acting by a fine cast, making the film both worthwhile and entertaining. 




The Scoop 

Music 

• 
WVFI and Noise magazine present Die Kreuzen in concert Monday at 8 p.m. at Stepan Center. Die Kreuzen are a hardcore band from Milwaukee. Opening the show will be Marauder, a campus band, and Adam 12. Admission is S4 at the door. 

• 
The Notre Dame music department an­nounces Becky Brulck in a graduate stu­dent organ recital on Sunday in Sacred Heart Church. Bruick will perform works by Niels Gade, Handel, Alain, Vierne and Bach. Admission to the concert is free. 

• 
Pianist Timothy Woolsey will perform tonight in the Northside Recital Hall on the IUSB campus. Having coached with teac­hers Nelita True, Wlian Kallir and Frank Mannheimer, Woolsey has given numerous master classes and pedagogy workshops. His recital will feature Bach's "Adagio in D Minor" and "Prelude and Fugue in F Minor, Book II;" "Sonata In F Minor, Op 5" by Brahms; David Ashley 


White's "Phantasy and Toccata" and several pieces by Liszt. Tickets to the 8:1 c; 
p.m. performance are free. 

• The SAB hosts Chuck Mangione Sunday night at the Morris Civic Auditorium. A composer, bandleader, producer and musician, Mangione will perform songs from his most recent album, "70 Miles Young," and favorite oldies such as "Feels So Good." Tickets to the 7:30p.m. show are 19.50 for students and are available at the Ticketstub or the Morris Civic Auditorium box office. The SAB will provide free bus transportation from the main circle starting at 6:30p.m. and running every 15 minutes until showtime. 
Art 


• Opening Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy East Gallery is the exhibit "Richard Stevens: Recent Photographs." Steven's new works are photographic studies of folded paper, stones, glass and assorted ob­jects printed on conventional silver paper. The work explores how ritual feding can arise from objects, arrangements and light. The opening will include a public recep­tion from 2 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 



Theater 
• The Guthrie Theater from Min­neapolis will perform Charles Dickens' "Great Expectadons" Sunday in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The play follows the growth of Philip Pirrip, called "Pip," from a boy ofshallow dreams to a man of depth and character. Full ofDickens' vivid characters, both comic and villainous, "Great Expectations" offers heartbreaking warmth, sharp social satire and great drama. Tickets to the 8 p.m. performance are 16.50, S5.SO and 14.50 and are available from the O'Laughlin box office. 

Assorted 

• The SAD presents "We can Make You Laugh" tomorrow night in Stepan Center. Ifthey can'~ make you laugh, you get S25. Tickets to the 7 p.m. performance are 12 and are available at The Cellar and the door. 



Mass 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
Church this weekend will be: 
Father Patrick Maloney at 5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil). Father Patrick Maloney at 9 a.m. Father Michael McCafferty at 10:30 a.m. 
and 12:15 p.m. 
The schedule for confessions in Sacred Heart Church is: 
Monday through Saturday at 11:15 a.m. 
Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
Stations of the Cross are on Fridays during Lent at 7:15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Vespers will beheld Sundays at 7:15p.m. in the Lady Chapel 
The rosary is said daily at 6:45p.m. at the Grotto. 


,. 
I I I 
~ Happenings-page 4 Friday, February 21, 1986 


Mistreat your taste buds 
The Observer 


at bland 'one-man' diner 



j 
·, 
) ·\ i 
{ ·, 
<
! 
\ 
RUSS HUMBERSTON, TIM HEALY 
and GREG DeFD.IPPO 
features writers 
T 
he Mint Julep is not one of those restaurants that 
every town deserves to have. In fact, The Mint 
Julep is one of those restaurants that no town deserves 
to have. 
Ifanybody from South Bend moved to another area, 
he wouldn't miss that special blend of honey-cured 
ham and melted Swiss cheese that came gushing out of 
a perfectly. prepared cutlet of veal cordon blue. He'd 
already have missed it while he was still in the 
restaurant eating it. 1be beef tastes like the cattle it 
came from must have grazed on re-fried Theragran 
pills and their own piles ofshedded hair instead of 
Ohio grass. 
d 
Restaurant . ~ The Mint Julep .
* (out of tour) 
As for the seafood, it tastes as though the people of 
The MintJulep didn't think that an entire life in the sea 
was sufficient to completely leach whatever taste the 
fish may have had. So they thought it necessary to 
re-acquaint the flllet of the fish with its natural habitat 
by claiming to have a three-alarm fire on the fish 
broiler and dialing 911 to have the South Bend 
Volunteer Fire Department rush to extinguish the 
flame. They were careful, however, to warn the 
firefighters not to use a foam which may contain an 
agent that could somehow spice the filet in a way that 
it could be detected by the virgin human taste bud. 
As bad as a restaurant may be, it usually still seems to 
attract a few customers during the busy dinner hour, 
but on the particular evening this restaurant was 
reviewed the people ofSouth Bend seemed to be on 
Uganda time. The argument that it was "just an off 
nigha:," however, may be seriously questioned by the 

AOGOSTINO \ s 
Favorite neighborhood restauraunt with a pleasant atmosphere and reasonable rates 
AOGOSTINO'S WHISTLE STOP 
Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge Open Fri. & Sat. S:OOPM-1O:OOPM 
602 S. Walnut 232-2494 qr 233-4021 
CHOICE OF Prime Rib, Steak. And Seafood 
rake your parents to AOGOSTINO'S for a graet meal during Junior Parents Weekend 
~----------------------------­

5292! u.s.lirbth 
~
.............................. 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price MediumPizzaforSmall Pizza Price (Delloery Orders Only) After5 pm on FrL-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) Offer expires March t
277-5880 

L----------------------------~ 

fact that one person carried out the combined duties ofhostess, waitress and bus-boy for the entire res­taurant. 
It can be speculated, then, that the unobservable duties ofcook, bar maid, port-to-restaurant food transporter and OJ of the horrid AM station broad­casted in the restaurant may also have been performed by this same jack-of-all-trades. This human phenomenon by himself may be enough ofa reason to entice a person to dine at The Mint Julep, but it is quite honestly the only one. So on the positive side, The MintJulep does create jobs· at least one. 
The Mint Julep menu does not offer a diverse variety offoods. There are a few beefdinners and a halfdozen fish entrees, making it tough to decide what to order not because there are so many things one would like to try, but because there are so few things that one already hasn't eaten a thousand times before. 
All dinners are served with the "French delicacy" of corn bread squares, soup or salad and a choice of potato. There are no daily specials offered, and unless one enjoys mints the dessert menu leaves only a hot fudge sundae. 
Mints are usually green, and so is the interior ofThe Mint Julep. The carpet is green, the napkins are green, the lights are green, the chairs are green and the owner must by now be green ... with envy over other successful eating establishments. What isn't green just hasn't been touched upon yet by the Wagner Power Painter. That is, ofcourse except for the red Valentine's Day decorations on the green tree in the corner, which combine to make one feel like there might be a lovesick, lonely Santa Claus writhing down the chimney any minute with a bow and arrow in his sack. The silverware was, however, silver-otherwise the soap spots wouldn't have been visible. 
Ifanyone is still interested in dining at The Mint Julep, it is located on the corner of Hill and Was­hington Sts. Iftraveling after dusk, it may be difficult to find because of its dark green, unlit sign. But it's there. A julep, by the way, is a sugar-and-water mixture in 
which medicine is given. 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 

1986-87 Business Manager and Managing Editor 
Applications must be submitted to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Friday, February 21, 1986. 
The Observer 3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


Do you have 
For more Information contact 
Mary Healy 
at The Observer 239-5313 



"ielYP.-O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------F_n_·d-ay~,_Fe_b~ru_ruy___z_I,_I_9_86_-~P-a~ge__9 
P.O. Box Q 

We should respect Rice for his choice ofschools 
DearEditor: 
Eric Bergamo's excellent article on the Tony Rice controversy (Feb. 18)is to be com­mended for its intelligence and insight. lbe same cannot be said for Terry K.ibelstis' Feb. 1 7 article. Contrary to K.ibelstis' assumption, Rice's athletic talent was not the sole basis for his admission into Notre Dame, and who is Kibelstis to decide who is "ridiculously un­qualified" to be a student here? SAT scores, as the letter by Patricia O'Connor (Feb.17) points out, are not the sole deciding factor on who is accepted at Notre Dame. Attitude, in­telligence (which is certainly not tested by the SAT), discipline and work habits are con­sidered. Those things that Kibelstis may not consider important at all, such as a willingness to learn and a desire to improve oneself intel­lectually, are qualities which Tony Rice has in abundance. I know. I've met him. 
Kibelstis is apparently unaware that a large number of Notre Dame students are chosen over the thousands that apply because they are the children of alumni, not because of their steller SAT scores. These students are certainly qualified for admission, but when considering the thousands of qualified stu­dents who apply, it is foolish to pay too much attention to SAT scores. 
We should respect Rice for his decision to come to Notre Dame. Rice could have gone to almost any NCAA lA school, and he chose Notre Dame. Obviously, he chose it because he likes the school and the people as well ~ the football program. He wants to be a mem­ber of the Notre Dame family. He could have gone to a "football factory" but he made the mature decision with his education in mind. 
Having been recruited myself as a student­athlete at Notre Dame, I know Rice was given a realistic view of the school's academic re­quirements. Rice, like all other student­athletes here, must take the same classes, earn the same number of credits and finish the same course requirements as regular stu­dents. But here is the catch -the student­athlete must do all this with 40 fewer hours a week than the regular student. Clearly student-athletes do not have a "free ride" through college. 
last year, 25 out of 26 football players graduated. Obviously, the admissions depart­ment does not make many mistakes about which athletes to accept. 
Lou Holtz is no idiot either. He did not recuit student-athletes that he might lose to academic probation. The graduation rate for scholarship athletes is higher than the regular student body's graduation rate. Rice knows what he is getting into academically. He probably never guessed that he would be per­sonally attacked in the student newspaper before he even arrived on campus. 
To end on a more personal note, I invite Kibelstis to meet some of the people she has inadvertently insulted by attacking a future fellow athlete. We can be found in the dorms, in the dining halls, in the classrooms, or in the 
ACC at 6  a.m. on Monday Wednesday, and  
Friday.  
Brandy 0. Wells  
Cavanaugh Hall  

To label Rice by SAT is very narrow-minded 
DearEditor: 
A recent guest column by Terry K.ibelstis and a recent Viewpoint letter by Patricia O'Connor criticized Lou Holtz for his recruit­ment of Tony Rice. Both writers felt Rice's grades and test scores were too low for Notre 
Dame and that Holtz showed;~ lack ofrespect 
for the ideals of the University by recruiting 
him. 
However, I do not think Kibelstis or 
O'Connor is qualified to pass any judgmenton 
Rice on the matter. Neither one claimed to 
know more about Rice than his 640 SAT, his 
2.65 GPA, and a few ofhis high school football totals. Doesn't it seem a little narrow-minded to label someone unfit to come to Notre Dame on the basis ofa three-hour exam? The SAT has more than a few flaws, and there are not many great educators willing to defend it. Concern­ing O'Connor's conclusions about Rice's grades, of course they were probably B's and C's; but since they were in the right college prep classes, doesn't that make him as eligible for Notre Dame as anyone else? 
In support ofRice's admission, Holtz and ot­
her members of his staff were all very 
impressed in their interviews with Rice. Just 
the fact that he chose Notre Dame shows a lot 
about his character. He knows he could have 
gone to schools like Georgia, and Clemson 
and not have had to worry about passing his 
classes; instead, Tony Rice is coming to Notre 
Dame where academics are a serious chal­
lenge. 
Both writers also questioned whether Holtz 
understands or respects Notre Dame's com­
mitment to academics first and athletics 
second. Both probably ignored the fact that 
Holtz has experience at William and Mary (a 
school with similar priorities) and that Father 
Hesburgh and FatherJoyce never would have 
hired him if they did not believe in his in­
tegrity. But anyway, isn't three months a little 
early to start judging our new football coach? 
Another subject Kibelstis and O'Connor addressed was what it took to be part of the Notre Dame community. For some reason, taking cheap shots at an incoming freshman doesn't seem to fit into that. 
MikeHuecker Alumni Hall 
Complaints about meat not worth consideration 
DearEditor: 
Every year at this time some chump feels compelled to write in and complain about not being able to "choose" to have meat on Ash Wednesday and Fridays during Lent. Now, come on kids. I mean, look at the menu the rest ofthe week. One can "choose" from such sundry delights as turkey broccoli divan, eg­gplant grinder, and barbecued pork hoagie. This is a choice? Ifit's a choice you want, go to a restaurant. Besides, aren't there other "choices" that are more worthy ofyour con­cern? Section eight in du Lac, for instance? 
LauraNagy MaryjaneLorton Cathy Schafer Cathy Swanson ChrisMorin Pasquerilla West 
Nine months not needed to help the peace march 
DearEditor: 
"Don't just take history, make history." 
Allow us to introduce ourselves: we are the 
Notre Dame chapter of the national PRO­
Peace movement, the group organizing the 
Great Peace March across America. Conrary 
to popular belief, you don't have to take nine 
months out ofyour life to support nuclear dis­
armament. The fact is that there are a number 
ofways you can help out. 
It is possible, for example, to walk a part of 
the march, perhaps for a couple of weeks 
during the summer. In fact, you can receive 
summer school credit while marching part­
time. Even if you cannot panicipate in the 

March itself, you can give financial support. 
Donations are a simple yet essential way of 
showing your interest. 

With this support, you can help make the 
Peace March a success. Here at Notre Dame, 
ND PRO-Peace is just getting started, and we 
need your help. We will be co-sponsoring 
several speakers in the near future who will 
address the issue ofnuclear weapons. We will 
also be engaged in fund-raising activities and 
presentations covering the Great Peace 
March, as well as working in conjunction with 
the regional PRO-Peace office. 
"Put yourselfon the line" and get involved. 
If you would like to march, join NO PRO­
Peace, or if you just want more information, 
please contact Paula at 283-3561, Katy at 283­
3497, or Mike at 283·3185. 
Paula Miranda Katy Spalding Mike Rigney Co-founders ofND PRO-Peace 
Generalization did not speak for an entire class 
DearEditor: 

This letter 1s m response to yet another 
ridiculous article printed in this month's issue 
of Scholastic magazine. The author of the ar­
ticle, W.R. Mack, proposes that seniors should 
be banned from being resident assistants or 
student government representatives due to 
their lack of responsibility and their apathy 
during their last year. He believes that juniors 
should hold these positions. (Please note that 
Mack is an RA himselfin Cavanaugh Hall.) 
Mack outlandishly states that "ifseniors are 
honest with themselves, they will admit that 
they are not as committed to anything they do 
as they were in their junior year." He con­
tinues this gross generalization by saying that 
the problem inherently lies with the senior 
year itself, since most seniors want to party as 
much as possible during their last year and 
due to the burden offinding jobs. 
However, as RAs ourselves, we felt com­pelled to point out problems with Mack's argument. First, we feel that Mack's inherent problem is that he is in Cavanaugh Hall. Who wouldn't dislike the job if he were stuck in Cavanaugh Hall, or as they say, Stalag 13. Yet, more importantly, we feel Mack's biggest problem is his lack ofindividual commitment and responsibility. He is very wrong in trying to speak for the entire senior class or for all the RAs on campus. 
It is true that seniors do like to enjoy their last semester, but it is possible to do so wit­hout disregarding all responsibilities. If a senior cannot cope with this, then how will he orshe balance work and play in the real world. Further, we are not so sure that enough juniors are mature enough to handle the great committment needed to fulfill the RA position during their junior year. In fact, as Mack's in­dividual feelings demonstrate, even some seniors lack the maturity and responsibility necessary to be a good RA. 
Finally, it is with all seriousness with which we reply to this article due to its timing. It is at this time each year that juniors decide whet­her they should make a committment to be an RA for the following year. We sincerely hope that all prospective candidates weigh their priorities for senior year and decide to what degree they will be committed to those priorities a year from now. In addition, we hope that this year's hall staffs have the foresight and insight to choose those can­didates who will remain committed to their responsibilities throughout their senior year. 
P.S. Thank goodness Mack wasn't our RA. 
Kevin Flynn RobertLePere Morrissey Hall 
Brazilian development 
may simply be a myth 
DearEditor: 
Ricardo Araujo has recently (Tues. Feb. 18) 
informed us ofthe cost-benefit analysis which 
Citibank and other banks have performed in 
order to determine whether or not these 
creditors ought extend Brazil more loans. And 
indeed Citibank's decision to go ahead with a 
short-run credit will benefit this institution as 
well as ameliorating certain economic trends 
in Brazil. Araujo states that "Citibank's 
positive response to the demands of Brazil 
shows that this bank sees Brazil's economy as 
robust and dynamic." Araujo concludes that 
theJanuary loan granted to Brazil by Citibank 
"represents a plus for both" Brazil's develop­
ment and Citibank's profit margin. 
And yet a rather conspicuous element in 
the equation of Brazil's economy is left dan­
gling. How is it that Citibank "sees Brazil's 
economy as robust and dynamic" while this 
institution is also "aware ofthe faCt that Brazil 
has many internal problems (high inflation, 
unemployment, under-employment)"? It 
seems that Citibank's consideration of the 
situation has been intentionally parochial. 
I think that Araujo should follow up his column by addressing an apparent paradox: Brazil's increased industrial diversification and healthy trade surplus is coupled with severe unemployment and underemploy­ment. How is this similar to our own affluence and poverty here in the U.S.? 
Perhaps Citibank's index of robusticity and dynamism (trade surplus, foreign reserves, Gross Domestic Product) skews their vision regarding Brazil's economy. Perhaps Brazil's "development" -allegedly bolstered by creditor loans -is really rather a myth when one puts the people ofthe nation back into the equation. 
Patrick A. Manson NotreDame student 
United Way volunteers helped to reach the goal 
DearEditor: 
The Observer recently reported that the 
University of Notre Dame had surpassed its 
United Way goal. As co-chairmen ofthe Notre 
Dame United Way Campaign, we wish to 
thank the great many individuals who made 
this achievement possible, despite an eight 
percent increase in this year's goal over last 
year's. 
Deserving of special thanks are Monica Jef­fers, personnel representative in the Person­nel Department,who did so much in implementing the Campaign among the Notre Dame employees, and Bob McNamara and Mike Huber, who so ably directed the student component of the Campaign. 
FernandN. Dutile 
ProfessorofLaw 
james A. Roemer 
Director ofCommunityRelations 
On the campus 
Viewpoint would like to oc­cassionally highlight quotes &om faculty members, stu­dents and readers. So ifyou or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brillandy funny orclearlycontroversial, send the quote to Viewpoint. 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
---. ----.L-=Y~~ ~--­

--Ihe-Ob.se~~er--­
Editor-in-Chief.............................Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor.................................Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor.............................................Frank Upo Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ...................................Dan McCullou~ Advertising Manager .. .................Anne M. Culhgan
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's EJfecutive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager.........................M811< B. Johnson adm1mstration of either institl<tion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blurnb Production Msnager ....................... John A. Mennen 
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Heaty tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views ot their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphyavailable to all members of the commun1ty and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor.........................Peter C. laches campus. through letters, is encouraged. Copy Chief..........................................Philip H. Wotf Founded November 3,1966 
------~--------------------------------~-~--------· 
The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 1 0 



The ND wrestling team will travel to uncoln, Neb., for a meet tomorrow. The Irish will face Nebraska and Brigham Young in the competition. · Tbe Observer 
The ND Rugby Club will begin practice Monday at 
4:1 5 p.m. behind Stepan Center. Anyone interested in playing is welcome, and no experience is necessary. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4761.-Tbe Observer 
The SMC SoccerClub will hold its annual indoor soccer invitational tomorrow from 9 a.m. · 5 p.m. at the Angela Ath· letic Facility. St. Mary's will face teams from Indiana University, Mic· higan State, Wisconsin of Milwaukee, Marquette, and a select team from Chicago. St. Mary's will take part in the opening game at 9 a.m. and the championship game will begin at 5 p.m. For more informa· tion call the Angela Athletic Facility. · The Observer 

The ND Rowing Club will hold a mand~tory 
practice for all novice men and novice women rowers today at 3:30 
p.m. in the ACC Concourse. For more information call Patrick Songer at 277-8336. · Tbe Observer 
Grace Hall the official champion of the 1986 interhall track meet held Wednesday night by NVA. Fisher Hall and Pangborn Hall finished second and third respectively. Individual winners are as fol­lows: long jump· Chris Tomko (Stanford), high jump· Chris Wep­pner (Alumni), 60-yard hurdles & 60-yard dash · Mark Scales (Fisher), mile run . Tom Shallow (Pangborn), four-lap relay · Fisher Hall, 440-yard run· Edwin Quinn (Keenan), 880-yard run · Rich Caffarelli (Pangborn), and the 8-lap relay· Grace Hall.· The Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortuneBriefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -The Observer 
Chicago 
continuedfrom page 16 

have to do to be successful tonight. 
"We have got to keep them from scoringon transition," she said. "The fast break is a big part oftheir attack. We've also got to stop Sharon Carr. We can't allow her to have open pas­sing lanes inside." 
The 5·8 Carr scored 15 points in the 75·54 Notre Dame victory ear· lier in the season, and she is comple­mented at the guard position by 5·8 senior Kathy Leyden, who is one of the all-time leading scorers at Loyola. 
In Sunday's game against DePaul, the Irish should see a much different style ofplay. 
The Blue Demons are led by 5·5 speedster Sally Anderson who has proven herself as one of the top players in the conference. Anderson scored 17 points in her team's 55·53 loss to Notre Dame earlier this season. 
"Sally is the star," said DiStanislao, "but she has a great supporting cast." 
llw Oh.\t'TTt•r :\olrt· l>.tmt oltitt· lotJinl on lht· tlurd tluur ol l.tlortunt 'llldl'lll ( l"llllT .Jlll"Jll'ti.J''Ifkd Jth l"rll,lll~ lrolll ') .1 Ill 1111111 I (1 Ill \IPilti.J\ thn•u~h lnd.tl lheiJ/)Sf'rr·t•r '.Jtnl \l.tn·,,,tft<t l•~<.tlttl o>nlla·thtrtltloor "' ll.t~~.1r ( ollq:t· ( nllt·r .Ill t"Jll' t l.l"ttinh from I.! ~II p 111 unit I ~ pIll \loll tl.t\ 1ho11~h I rtti.JI lk.tdl111t· fo~r nt" d.11 tl.•~-•tu "' '' ~ p m \II tl.t.-111< tJ, 11111.,1 ht·IHcp.utl tllht r IIIJ'< r~"n on IH 111.111 < h.n~t "llltcllh pt·r I>H"t h.H.It






Classifieds 
lcr' cr tl.t\ 
LOST! LOST! LOST! I !oat my blue back­NEED 

CHRII 80WLER, IIEUISA WAIIINKE. ROCKY.•• We're glad you·ve finally found One ticket needed f01 the Dayton/NOpack on the boolnck in South Dining Hel ONE DAYTON nJt PAT CLARK and ANN KALTJ:NaACH •• your Adrian becauH you realy cleeerve it. game on March 8-Cal284-4425.
NOTICES on Tueedly, Feb. 18. I you found it, I TEMY2111 . working above and beyond the cal ol (We kn-al that atudying in the ~brlrywould appreciate it being returned. It con­
duly ... You areal godl ... THANKS, wu 101 aomething belidee academica!) ROMANCING THE STONE SMC HAG·laine a broken Sanyo radio, al<*f, an old 
the Wednllday night(and morning) ANE Congratulationa and bell of luck!!! GAR GAME ROOM· $0.75 FAt FEB. 21 • 
Typing Avlilele pair ol glov•, and NYirlll bidogy I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA"S. CALL 283-2123 6-8-10.12 pm
(your lriendy roommat•) 
287-4082 periroc rnegazinM P._.Cllll me in the JOSEPH, YOUR DAYS ARE NUM· eveninga at x1 ns. Thanka a lot. 

BERED! A FAN FROM LEWIS! THANK YOU ST. JUDE-CJ 
If I don't get 2 DAYTON GA'S my parenta TYPING I CAN IIIAKE YOU INCH If you found my wtl give me up f01 Lent. Cal Jeff at 3559 

Cellar. TicketStub, end Cinderela, Let'a EIIIIC PILAIIICIK Happy 2111 birthday, Gina Farabaugh!
CALL. CHID keya. I !oat them at the Rock on Thu~y and help out a fellow Domer. 

be civ~. OK? You a1 had a chance on G.B. the V.Q. becomea legal tonight at 2JWII7. II 9:30 Phye. Ed. They are on a blue key midnight. She wiN be pauing out lhturpe
Friday, 10 don"t complain. My philolophy It couldn't have happened to a nicer guy'clip and have my dorm,houee,car and ot· I need 2 Dayton GA'I, Marty 1050 
ia, ""When you -aomething you ike, We're 1111 1 Nttle jealoul but -·re happy in Quint 303 Wallh. Be there! her keya on it. The dorm kaye .. 240. 

you go after it." But you a1 have another 101 you too. Hope lhe'a good enough! 
.U.NEMD....a,tNC. They are very important to me. FINO I need 2 OePaulllx, Stud 01 GA. Cllll Mike 

chance. Now who are you and what do The Lewia Quad Buy Norb Knapke drinka on hil birthdayAND WORTH
Wwclprac-I"'Mel typlnt THEM I'LL MAKE IT 3452 you want???????????????????? Kelly thie Sunday until he STOPS MAKING 
27HI27 VOUIII WHILE IIIStlll Cel Den et 
SENSE! 
33041 Pleael DAYTON DAYTON DAYTON! I NEED 

Tom, th•e ia no hope, you may u well Eric. Moreau'• lou wtl be my gain. You 
DAYTON TIX! GA'S OR STUDENT! I 

give in now. lllwaya get what I want and are the meet wonderful guy on eerth and I EXPERT TYPING UIMCE. CALL FOUND, ZIPPO LIGHTER AT ST NEED A LOTI JOHN x1502 you are what I want now. Love, me love you llwaya. -anuggiel
...._COKER, 2»-7001. MARY'S ON SIDEWALK NEXT TO MAD­STOP UIING lEX A8 A WIEAPON LEVA PARKING LOT. CALL 28-4-4656. Need 4 Dayton tix (atudent at GA). 
pizza belt ... pizza belt ... pizza beat Congratulatlona on your engagernenl,
ATTN: ITUDENT8 PteMe call Mary Ellen at 3655 01 239-Mia San Diego: l"ve got the~ if you've 
Eric. We hope your relationahip doean't got the time.

Dolor• Frana. typing eervice 5303. BigS! HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY 19th get 100 rocky at tal on hard dmee. We're phone number change BIRTHOA Y EO! Love, Rattiya IUI'e il"a lolid u a rock. though. knowing 2n-a131 
GOO IS A DUCK 
you.
[ FORRENT

''. I need 1,2,3 01 4 DAYTON tix Dan 3475 
}I 75 To Stay Alive 
EDDIE MUNSTER IS THE POPE 
the rambear aquad I~ Proleaional word procauing and typing. 75 DAYI TIU THE CPA Convenient location on N. Ironwood. cal Semi·furnilhed houee good neighbor· 
HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY MISS WUR­. ~ 
277-4220 hood aft•4. 255-3684/2n-3604. PERSONALS 75 To Smy Alive PEL I"M OUT OF MY MIND. TJH 
·\ 8owlt,., FWt I
2-bdrm. IP1. Clll272-4613. Dance end Pllty written on the ill8ide ol a popcorn
Your only obi/pelion in anyllfedi'Mia to JPWQulz 
boX ... wh•e ia Pal? .. wh•e Ia LAKE EFFECT 

~ be ITUe to youreell . . 1. Wll Phil'a mom know which per.on at Mike? .. and the leg ge11 one ... lhal'l • at CHEEIII: Th, Fri. satthe table ia her 1011?
·\ LOST/FOUND I term I nev• thought l"d apply to wtth 
• Richard Bach, 2. Do John'a parenta and Phil'a parenl&
I \ WANTED mylelf ... I think I've reached my peak at 
l 
lluelone aound alike? 
nine ... it's all in the follow-through . . . I GREG you lhould know better than toLOST: GOLD NECKLACE WITH PEN· 3. Cen a doctOIIUrvive at I table with two 

OANT THAT HAS DIAMONDS IN IT. IF P.a.. need a big ... I don't Nke bowling . . of drive your car on the ice, you might jull
lawyeB? 
courae lhe get1 four in one game ... lei' a 

FOUND PLEASE CALL 272.()253. GOVERNMENT JOBS. get into and OTTOwreck
I like it lhort ... rNiy 4. Wll the 'renta have a good time? 
get anoth• beer ... let'a go to Sr. HOT PACKAGES RULE FRIDAY 
REWARD! S16.040..S59,230/yr. Now Hiring, Cell T.B.\ 1-805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 101 current Bar ...
Loolr f01 the enawera in Monday'e per· 
I' LOST 2 C8 Wlm. Coata (a navy blue federal ~II. PREGNANT? 1011111. coet wl1t'la red mpe.and alky blue coat) NEED HELP? 
OTTO OTTO WHO? 

at Cempua View on Sat night. A reward Ia RIDE NEEDED TO FORT WAYNE cat1 234-()363. 24-hr. hotline, couneellng Gypeiee, Trampa, and Thievee o1 London being oflerecl. Cal ROB-272-0828 01 FRIDAY THE 21ST CALL DEE 1329 & lree pregnancy teeta. Welcome Mom and Dad JPW TEA 2-3:30 downstaira Gnlce in FOR THAT HAWAIIAN GUY: FOR THAT WOIIEN'I CAlliE CENTER I'm glad you're here 
Mlk•212·238!5. THANKS Sarge"• saturday. Bring parenta and­HAWAIIAN GUY: OHH! ANNAHAH plaid. LONG LIVE CHER! VISEETAH! STM AHAL. STM
Love, Phil LOST(Ittolen?) Gold chaln,it _,·t even 
HAHEVAH!!! Snort! Snort! "We wouldn"t worth that much, only ol high Nntimental OM HOUlE: COLD BIEIII a UQUOIII. 
HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY leue you if we didn't love you!" The LBC value. P--.Cllll381 0. "-dand no FOR SALE CAMY OUT TO I A.M. U.l. 11 N., 1 "The IOdomilic vice ia aurpaaeed in _ 19th BIRTHDAY ED! ~-eci.Thanka BLOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. gravity and turpitude only by beetialiry." A 
Love. Rattiya 

meaeage brought lo the haye and lee­MY HEART BELONGS TO DADDY. I -ELAINE· Welcome to Oomer1and! Love,
FOUND: Silver Men'l LONI Watch· 75 FIAT Spyder gd transport, gd engine, YOUNG TRAVELLERS NEWILETTERI biana of NO/SMC by St. Thoma Aquinu LOVE YOU DAD! MISS YOU, MJ 
Found Tu• In !rent ol Library. Clll Bob lnctudee:800 no.; travel partner (Sum. Theo.ll·ll,1!55,1ad4). Bee& Mike
lirM, muffler, needl bodywork. cal 283­287-68156 a«Vice;featurea on erotic OVEJiaEAI Ann Marie Have you figured out who lam
3472 anytime 

IUNDAVIUNDAYIUNDAV ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, New BIRTHDAY ED! Love, Rattiya ITS GREG OTTO'S BIRTHDAY who 
budget travel. work, atudy! Send ctleck HAPPY HAPPY HAPPY 19th yet? I'm in one ol your clulel... ~u­
5 BORM Houle. Fuly fumilhed. All ap­Haven, CT. 06525 
ON THE ACCOUNT OF THE FACT
LoeT: GOLD IIIKO WATCH; o..atp­pliancee & furniture included. Greet THAT WE KNOW YOU WE WOULD LIKE 

a Happy 20th Birthday,PAUL TO WISH A VERY BALMY 20TH YEAR curious Benz driver) 
tion: Quartz, thin, gold latch type bend. inveetment. Nice neighborhood. 4 milee HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY SCOTT!! LOVE "JIMBO": Who ARE you??? (From 
Loat aomewhere on North Cued 2/16/86. lrom N0.$22,000. Cllll eveninga 288-YOU!! ME OF EXISTENCE. LOVE NATALIE

-Mom&Dad LANDRY only ~ke ROB 1 ROB 2 ROB 3 
If found,~ contact Rey, 3!59 Cav., 3109. 

tel: 1533. Wll give rew.rd to finder. Converaation from the top bunk: BtU, I"M TODAY IS THE SINEWY SEXPOT GOINGTOFAU.OFF. NO, YOU WONT. .JIIIIV IIOAGAN'I BIRTHDAY! STOP
TOM GEORGE GREG ED pe. i hope you YAMAHA 650 EXCEUENT have OTTOinaurance fOtlonighll game

ITEAL the PAUL: Have e gr•t birthday. YES, I AM! NO, YOU WON"T! (CRASH) BY 212 KEENAN HALL OR CALL 3260 .tlove GQU) SEII<O WATCH, at 1Mat Cllll Love, Anne Coun•y of the Lunch Box Club . TO BESTOW KISSES, WISHES. ETC. 
If eomeone happened to CON0.$1200.CALLJAY 232-0554 herb ia the antichriat 

01 «<Ol 1 note to Rey, 3!59 Cav.. tel: 1533 ON THIS RED-HEADED GOO. HAPPY & tel me how much you go1101 it .•. it wtl Happy Birthday to Chria Hawaii, that BIRTHDAY JIMMY!!! ll'1llke me feel tMitter! F•dinand, ROTC-type God. Try not to be too wtld this 
THE GAME OF GAMES 

TICKETS Wrong play,lir. Stick to thiaacript. weekend, okay Chria? Give uaal 1 break. 
OIUON va. DIUON in the biggeet ex· 

WIU THE PERSON WHO BORROWED Miranda WE LOVE YOU!!!! ligned. Private Ben­Ooad. Scoop, Mo. Dilha, Linnie. Lyona.
lravaganza of the known eerth 

SUPER CHIEF PLEASE RETURN IT TO gamin, Pizza Hut, Dazi, Spike, Mr. Bil, the Momuey, et el.
WATCH AS THE HOT PACKAGES ON 

108 KEENAN OR CALL 3217. TopS 101 Dayton GAl. Cllll John 2368. future Heavy Metal guitarill. the 1w0 PLS I LOVE YOU ALLI
ICE DESTROY THAT OTHER SECTION 

MOM & DAD, WELCOME TO JPW. majOII, Rockl 101 Jockl, Mra. T, Thankl 101 the bell birthday ever, beet
ON THE FIRST FLOOR IN INTRAHALL FOUND: One lilY• pocket en.. in­I need 2 GAl for the Dayton game. Call LOVE, LITTLE LEO. Funklt•. Sli-•,and Paul. HOCKEY friendl! ICttbecl with the wordl "I am a catholic. Aft• the wile wordl ol our lamed heel 1a1t
Rodx1768. 

TONITE 1:00AM BE THERE OR BE GAY Pleaeecalaprieet,"lnGym 1oltheACC. Hungry? Call YELlOW SUBMARINE It Happy Birthday LEENY!(H.L.) Pleue night. 
Cal Mary at 1367. 1 need 4 ticketa (GAa preferred) 101 the 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12am don't pink on ua! We love you-The Beby ~ frienda /Ike you, I don"t need. .. Dayton game. P1eaee Cllll Dale x1657. Monday-Thu~y; 5pm-2am Friday; Oley THE HAPPENIN' HOUSE in Older to aup­anythiTifl alae! 3pm·1am saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday Lovellwaya, Kath
port the cau1e of UMOC can -didate. 

LOST: A GREY CHECKED OVERCOAT Need only ONE GA !01 DePaul Pleez Notre Dame. Saint Mary"l. South Bend. P.S. 11'1 al ov•. Kathleen! We made it!
DAVE FLANAGAN, invitee Ill to ita

Studenta in need ol gynecological the world-watch out becaule MARY
WITH A '"U2'" BUTTON, PAIR OF GREY help! Connie 2768 blowout pltly sat. 2/22. Any and al
a«Vicee can be eeen by the Unlvenity COLE tume 21 on February 22. If you
GLOVES, AND A GREY BUFFALO proceedll go toward thia noble
phyalcia.-. Of by a gynecologicel don't know her yet, you wil proOably meet
PLAID SCARF. AT 801 ST.LOUIS ST. NYTHING FOIII 2 DAYTON GA'I CALL ceu1e.Come and -if he'l give ua that

apecialat. Gynecologial by appointment her thia weekend. Happy Birthday, Mary. LAURA WOLNIKI
FRIDAY, FEB.14. IF FOUND PLEASE JOHN2110 vile naulellhal-know he"l capable of.only 239-74117, Wed. mominge ($20 mini· Curti a lt'l been great "IT"" lilting w11t'1 you?!!
CALL 2209 OA LEAVE AT LOST AND Anention Juniora!! Bring your parenta ­
FOUND. Have two (2) m8in ftoor tix to South Bend mum lee). No lee to -Unlvenity they drink lree! Thank you 101 the timee end talkl. Have a aymphony Sat nite ........... WANNA BUY phyliCIInl. super JPW. Hi, Mom, Dad, and Sia BAHAMAS OUOTE 1(It be(lina...) Wotnaki. Love, Maria 
LOST Gold & Peart Earringa 2115 at Art­'EM?? If 10. cal Greg at 4186 ..... . HI MOM AND DAD' Welcome to N.D. tt'a 
the time 101 the irilh aurf• to conquer NO 

gala SMC; Sent. Velu; Reward: Cal 277· gonna be greet being with you guyef01the
huarrived Hank: "Come on, little buddy ... whip It
8548. NEED 4 DAYTON GA'S. CALL BtU AT next 1-daye. Love, John the C.O.B.I! 
1n5 the time ia NOW out!"' Need rooma 101 graduation? Enjoy Bed "N 
he'a knocking at your door Breaklut in lovely homee. 21&-291·7153. SPRING BREAK FOREVER and ev•LOST: GOLD CUP ON EARRING ON 
SOUTH QUAD SENTIMENTAL VALUE NEED A DAYTON GA TICKET WIU PAY and rtV•....... HOLY TOLEDOI
FROM PALESTINE. REWARD! CALL WEU CALL X2035 MR. HIPCHECK, Wei lhoot, it'l your T.Q...OCKIT MOTHER HEN and BUN-BUN, Thanka
23S-38&9. My parenta and tittle brother could c:are 19th birthday. Thi1 weekend I might jultt NNITEEN YIEAIIII lot hanging wtth me P~ atree­
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHOA Y JEFFt have to twi.t your arm and force you to HAVE A QIIIIEAT lerlare on the decline. Love ya, Ann HAS 3 GOLD HEARTS ON A BRAIDED 111110 -theDANCING IRISH! 10eel me 
u.T WOIIEN'I GOLD MACB.ET IT lela about NO balkllball, but they would 

drink a BEER 01twol HAPPY BIRTHDAY, a-DAY GOLD CHAIN. GREAT 8ENITMENTAL 3 GAl f01 the Dayton game. Wll pey wei, DEAR TESS. THANKS! LOVE. YOUR I love your new doo. Love, Joanne M. P .S. THEFOLKI it'a llmcet March ... it'a llmcet April ... 
FAVORITE SMC DAY EDITOR. I'm nota drunk.
VALUE!!! PLEASE CALL 38119. THANKS cell Tom 1820. it'a almcet May! 
The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 11 
Four seniors lead Saint Mary's·'86 fencing team 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI years at Saint Mary's, yet he has Sports Writer already instilled team spirit into his fencers. Team unity is displayed 
Many hours of training, lots of both in and out of the gym. This is hard work, and total team devotion what he feels has caused their suc­have resulted in a very strong fenc­cess. ing program at Saint Mary's. "My sophomore year I was strict­
Head coach Mike Weeks at­ly novice, and junior year I was tributes these concepts to the able to fence a few times and did seniors. The four women, Mary okay," notes Maughan, an Beth Proost, Becca Barnett, Mary English/French major from Fran Wilkin and Shannon Youngstown, Ohio. "But this year I Maughan, began their careers in . have fenced a lot more. Coach either their freshman or sophomore Weeks has been spending the time year and · have improved a great with me enabling me to improve." deal. Her experience at each of the 

"Each of them enjoy the sport so meets is valuable. Getting the feel much and show that by putting the and timing of fencing has helped time into it," said Weeks. ''That is Maughan to improve. She believes what makes coaching enjoyable to she still can improve and is looking me." forward to the upcoming bouts. 
Weeks has only coached two "I am really excited about the 

Playoff action heats up 
By DAVE MCGAREL five-point lead on fine outside Sports Writer shooting by Collins and Chris Nan­ni. Dillon was outscored in the final 
the two most talented teams in seven minutes, while Collins and men's interhall basketball set up a Nanni each collected 10. head-to-head battle by winning In the Morissey-Alumni game, their respective games in last night's Brian Koehr and Steve Treacy each second playoff round. contributed 13 points and Greg 
Dingens had 12 in a balanced at­Sorin avenged its only loss of the 
tack against an outsized Alunni year by defeating rival Dillon, 44­
squad. Alumni took the early lead 32. Earlier, top-seeded Morriseey 

and kept the game close throughout knocked Alumni out of the win­the first half, but Morrissey took ner's bracket in the double­
charge in the second half and left elimination tourney, 53-44. Grace 
the outcome in little doubt. Alumni ended Planner's hopes of a cham­
captain Ken Schuermann finished pionship by winning, 73-65, in the with 20 points for the losers. loser's bracket. Sorin managed to stretch its lead In the loser's bracket, Grace to 17-1 0 at the half by creating tur­avenged a regular season loss to novers with the press. Steve Flanner as it ran to a 35-26 halftime Beuerlein had six points in the se­lead and never looked back. cond quarter. Steve Takach led all scorers with 19 points and a teammate Tom 
The pesky Dillon squad fought Hickey tallied 12. Wes Shorter led back by outscoring its opponents, Flanner with 17 points and captain 10-2, to start the second half. Sorin Eric Gras berger pitched in 10. 
captain Pat Collins was able to Grace, Alumni and Dillon stand silence the Dillon partisans with in the loser's bracket with one loss. several clutch 15-footers. Morrissey and Sorin will battle 
The teams exchanged baskets in each other next week in the final of the third quarter until Sorin took a the winner's bracket. 
.................




r····· 
Stock up for Spring; :• ~,..,Break NOW!; 
I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I 
Notre Dan1e Avenue Apartnaents 
NOWRENJJNG FOilFAIL 
Completely furnished_ balconies. laundry. and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Seuion) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 134 6647/256-5716 Call Aaytime 
program," says Maughan. "Each week gets better and better. It gets more exciting to win." 
Barnett, from Aurora, Ill., also took an interest in fencing in her sophomore year. She also credits much of her success to Weeks, since he was able to come into the program and change the negative attitudes toward fencing and teammates. She is also pleased with the way the seniors are involv­ed with the novices. "We needed to build the novice pro­gram and each senior has done her best to practice with the novices so that they can gain experience," stated Barnett. "I feel there is no void left for next year's team. The program is in good shape and we are leaving a good backbone." 
Teammate Wilkin, an 

Amherst, N.H., native, placed a lot of emphasis on the seniors. Con­tinual recruitment for novices was a major task. 
"The seniors fencing are a total roots team," comments Wilkin. No one had ever fenced before. It is especially hard getting people in­terested in a sport that practices at Notre Dame." 
Proost, Wilkin's teammate and roommate from St. Louis, Mo., agrees that with interest in the pro­gram increasing, the team's 
strength  will  build  too.  As  
freshmen,  Proost  and  Wilkin  
traveled  with  the  team  as  

substitutes. After returning from a year abroad, Proost became more involved in the team and traveled much more frequently. 
"Fencing was one of the sports I had never done. It helped me to understand the sport and then watch my record improve. You need desire to win at this sport," Proost said. 
In concluding the season, the Belles feel they will finish strong. Now that the fencers have worked to such a competitive level, main­taining a record above .500 is within reach. 
"I hope we get a chance to fence Wayne State again this weekend. Our chances are strong with them as well as with the others," stated Proost. 
Next on the team's mind is a five­team meet this weekend in East Lansing, Mich. Then it's on to the Great Lakes meet on March 1-2, the first of two possible meets of post-season action. 



THE KING SAYS "I 
CAN NOT TELL A 
LIE, FOR AN HONEST DEAL I CUT DOWN THESE PRICES FOR YOU." 
BEEFEATER GIN ~~~ 
ftll ~ 
g ~50ML. ~t· 
~;. ':;,~ 
SMIRNOFF VODKA 



10!~ 
M&R II 
VERMOUTH tl 
3
99 ·~. 
7SO ML IIMTII~D 



K.C•• VODKA.,:_-::

7
99 '?a:tt3 

1.75 L. 
CALVERT EXTRA 
.........RNIU BLANC/BLA.....r-__, 
4!!  
ZONIN  
~ ' ...t ~---· ~· I. •  ASTI SPUMAN4••  
750 ML.  





The Observer Friday, February 21, 1986-page 12 
Senior Van Der Velden is a team fencer for Irish 
ByPETESKIKO 
Sports Writer 
A record of 139-41 is not a bad record for any four-year varsity fen­cer, but it is not a good enough record record for Mike Vander Vel­den. 
"It's not something that I'm par­
ticularly proud of," said the senior 
foil fencer from Seattle, Wash. "It 
could be a lot better." 
Maybe, but this year is what counts for Van der Velden. He's having the best year of his fencing career ( 38-6 through a little more than half of the season), and he's hoping he'll peak at just the right time. 
"I'm reasonably content with my 
personal accomplishments in my 
four years at Notre Dame," ex­
plained VanderVelden. "But what 
I'm really looking forward to is 
Notre Dame becoming national 
champion." 
That is a typical statement from a 
thoroughly team fencer. 
Mike first fenced in the sixth 
grade when he entered a tourna­
ment held in the Seattle Coliseum. 
He was active in a lot ofsports back 
then, but he stuck with fencing and 
continued to fence privately through junior high and high school. In Portland. Ore., he trained for the Olympic Games with Notre Dame alumnus and fencing great Pat Gerard and Yves Auriol, who was then the coach of the United States Olympic fencing team and is now Head Coach of the Notre Dame women's fencing team and is assis­tant coach for the men. 
Gerard, second on Notre Dame's all-time win list, suggested to Head Coach Mike DeCicco that Van der Velden had what it took to be a Notre Dame fencer. As DeCicco ex­plains, that dido't simply mean great technical ability. 
"Mike is Notre Dame fencing at its best," said Decicco, in his 24th year as head coach. "Not only does he have talent that could very well make him the best foil in the country, but he gives of himself, which is what this program is all about. 
"In my fony years here, I can count on one hand the number of men that have been captain of the fencing team for two consecutive years. That kind of esteem given to Mike by his peers speaks for itself. At first I was skeptical about his leader­

ship, but now he's not a good cap­tain. he's outstanding." 
Van der Velden's feelings for his coaches mirror their admiration for him. 

Mike VanDerVelden 

"The Notre Dame fencing program is succesful because of the coaches and the attitude of our team," commented VanderVelden. "In past years, DeCicco's leadership and inspiration spurred the team on to win on little talent and lots of hean. Now we're lucky enough to have Yves (Auriol) who, in my opinion, is the best coach of tech­nique in the country. Yves and Coach DeCicco complement each other perfectly." 
Auriol gives each fencer a half­hour lesson twice a week, which Van der Velden feels is vital to each in­dividual's progress. 
"Yves knows every one of our styles," Mike continued. "No two methods ofteaching are the same for Yves because each ofus has different problems and techniques. He's not just a textbook coach." 
DeCicco believes that Mike's fen­cing has improved a notch because ofAuriol's experience. 
"What I had anticipated has hap­pened," explained DeCicco. "Yves is giving Mike polish and confidence. He's helped to form Mike into a con­tender for a major championship." 
With the coaching outlook as bright as it is, Van der Velden is confident that the young Irish fen­cers on their way up will be left in capable hands. Mike cites three fen­cers in particular which should keep the Irish program in high gear. 
"Yehuda Kovacs is an excellent fencer with unlimited potential," added Van der Velden. "Ounior) Charles Higgs-Coulthard will just be a great captain next year, and if (freshman) Derek Holeman develops his killer instinct, he'll be an incredible foil-fencer. He's fenced nationally and has great tech­nique." 

Two years ago, Van der Velden competed in the World Fencing Championships in Leningrad, Soviet Union. After fencing superbly in the first round, Mike twisted an ankle late in the second round and finished a disappointing 29th out of 64. 
"It was more than a personal thing," Mike said. "I wanted to do well for fencing in the United States. I was ready to fence in Leningrad anti what happened was very unfor­tunate. Last year, we fenced in­credibly well and lost the NCAA's by one point (to Wayne State). No more seconds or thirds this year. This year I want the disappointment to end." 
It just might. 

The Notre Dame fencing team travels to East Lansing, Michigan on Friday to take on Michigan State, Il­linois, Wayne State, Michigan, and Oakland. 
"Wayne State and Illinois will be tough," said DeCicco. "We'd better be ready to fence." 

Try Eddie's Junior Parents Weekend 
Also 
Sunday Brunch 
EDDIE'S 
Classic Cuisine & Cocktails 
* 
T ableside Service 1345 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, Ind. 
232-5861 
Entertainment Nightly 


Atttnthtn JuniorsI Junior tttartnts lllttktnb tEutnts 

JHBJJIJ\1. 111......iEI""'JrJili&Jt1\i&l 21 
9:oo-1:oo Aa atncktatllanct 

REGISTRATION 
Friday, 8:3oam -8:00pm in Lafortune Main Lobby 
Saturday, 4:00 -8:00 ACCGate10 


10:00·12:30 Qtoltgt wnrludynps 
1:00/2:15/3:30 &4nwing nt•AH 1111 mJl£ £<01<H& atu.s4tng Aubttorium 
1:00-2:30 Nntrt IJamt Jan11anlJ, in tlyt &nru ilusrum Anntnhurg .bb. 
2:00/3:00 mnurs nf tltt &nitt stwuum 2:45-4:00 &4tnantgans. in tlyt httt jl{u.stum Anntnburg Auh. 
1:00-4:00 <tptn Jlnust. attnttr fur &octal atnnctms 
2:00-4:00 Jfortign &tubits Jlrogram lttctptinn attnttr for C!tonHnung £bucation 
12:00·4:00 Air Jrnrct B<Omm <tptn lloust lt<Omar 11utlbtng 1:00-3:00 Nauu lt<Omar <Optn llnu.st lt<Omar 11uflbtng 2:00-4:00 
Annu lt<Omat <tptn Jfnust · lltbraru irnungt, jlem. lrihraru 
5:00 Junior Qtlas.u Sla.us · 7:00 J1rtsibtnts linntr 10:00 1lalllltctpttons (<Off-Qlampus rrcqrttnn in Aarat ilutuJgram ltnom) 
PLEASE CLIP AND SAVE 
&BNI11\I, 


JHEii&ltJ\J&I 23 
10:30 atlnsing JJrundy 




The Observer 
Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 13 

li 
~ 
1be Observer/Hannes Hacker 
Joe Nelligan, shown here in action last season, is the only senior on this year's men's tennis team. The Irish will open their spring season Sunday against Indiana at Bloomington. Terry Lynch has details at right. 
·······································································: 

!• • OFF • • ~ ~ • • All Clothing ~ • • 
: • (Except new socks and irreg. Health Tex) : • : Get your "way out'' clothes for spring at : 
•
: "way low" prices
•
•
•
•
•
: For Example:
•
•
•
•
: ALLLadiesBlouses Reg.1.75-3.50 : ALL Ladies Slacks Reg 2.00-4.00
• 
: ALL Ladies Dresses Reg 2.25-4.25 : ALL Ladies Coats Reg 5.25-11.00 : ALLMensshirts Reg1.75-3.50
•
: ALL Mens Slacks Reg 2.00-4.00 : ALL Mens Coats Reg 5.25-·11.00 : ALL Childrens Shirts Reg 1.00-3.25 : ALL Childrens Slacks Reg 1. 75-3.25 : ALLChildrensCoats Reg2.75-4.25
•
• 
•
: ALL Housewares, small appliances, shoes and usedfuriture 50/.o.tf : 
•• ~ • One Day Onlyll i•• • • ~ Sat. Feb. 22nd i• • ~ • 9:30-5:30 only i• 
i •• ..9.-?~~~!! .1?!~~ ......................~~~~ !!!.l:!~~:!rH §!.:.:•• 
Men's tennis team opens Sunday; Nelligan leads inexperienced squad 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
When the men's tennis team takes the court Sunday against Indiana in Bloomington, not only will it be bat­tling a talented and experienced rival, but its own injuries and inex­perience as well. The Irish, in their first meet of the 1986 season, are a very young team, and with the ex­ception of senior joe Nelligan, the team consists entirely of freshmen and sophomores. 
It remains to be seen whether Nel­ligan will be up to the task, as the LaGrange Park, Ill., native will be making a comeback after some off­season knee surgery. Nelligan will start in the No. 4 singles position this weekend, while freshman Tony Cahill will miss the Indiana match because of the flu. 
Head Coach Tom Fallon, entering his 30th year as the Irish men's coach, remains optimistic of his team's chances against the Hoosiers. 
"Talent-wise, I think this year's team is stronger than last year," he says. "Except for the injuries, we had a good fall and I'm pretty optimistic about this year." 
Indiana will try to counter the Irish youth crusade with a combina­tion ofseniors, transfer students, and Ireland's 1984 National Champion, Eoin Collins. Indiana coach Ken Hydinger, now starting his second season with the Hoosiers, compiled a 22-7 overall record last season 
•
: 
•
•
•
•
•
: 
•
•
•
•
Now.88-1.75 : Now 1.00-2.00 :
•
Now 1.13-2.13 : Now 2.63-5.50 : Now.88-1.75 :
•
Now 1.08-2.00 : Now 2.63-5.50 : Now .58-1.63 : Now .88-1.63 : Now 1.38-2.13 : 
•
•
•
• 

while placing the team fourth in the · Big Ten with a 7-5 mark. 
"Our team has the potential of 
being a very good, solid tennis . 
team," said Hydinger. "The inex­
perience can't help the team, but at 
the same time I feel that all the 
players we have are very well-
motivated and they are all intelligent 
players." 
In the singles competition, the 
Hoosiers will lead off with two 
seniors in the top two positions, 
joey Christoff and jeff Cohen. Chris-
toff defeated Nelligan last year in 
three sets, so the experienced tan· 
dem should give the Irish some s.tiff 
competition. Other than those two 
top men for Indiana, the team is 
much like the Irish. Collins, the im­
port from Ireland, starts in the No. 3 
Special Olyinpics names 11 from ND-SMC to '87 staff 
International Summer Special Olympics recently named II Notre Dame and Saint Mary's faculty and coaching staff members as managers and assistant managers of individual sports in the In­ternatio~al Summer Special Olympics to be held at Notre Dame. 
fhe 11 are Dennis Stark, director of aquatics at Notre Dame, as manager of swimming and diving; Tim Welsh, head coach of the Notre Dame swim teams, as assistant manager of swimming and diving; Joe Piane, head coach of track and cross country at Notre Dame, as manager of track and field; Marv Wood, head basket­ball coach at Saint Mary's, as manager of basketball; Matt Kilcullen, assistant Notre Dame men's basketball coach, as assis­tant manager of men's basketball; Greg Bruce, assistant Notre Dame women's basketball coach, as assistant manager of women's basketball; Mike Bobinski, assistant business manager and ticket manager at Notre Dame, as softball manager; Dr. Victor Nee, pro­fessor of fluid dynamics in the aerospace department at Notre Dame, as table tennis manager; Michelle Gelfman, women's tennis head coach at Notre Dame, as tennis manager; Art Lambert, head volleyball coach at Notre Dame, as volleyball manager; and Gary1 Weil, head strength coach at NO, as weightlifting !!'ana~er. 
·""=.. 

• 
RESTAURANT a LOUNGE 1033l.AKE STREET 
NILES, MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 
a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over!JO years. 

.IVSTASK ANYONE! 


\\ ith Rdx:11 Stonnont a~ l'n >sp~·n >DINctecl..,-Plellnl«< 

FRIDAY FE8Rt...WN28 SATURDAY MAFCH 1 

THURSDAY MAFCH6 
........... 
Washin11on Hall
FRID.lV MAFCH 7 
Mt/ellc & ~·Cenltlt G.tle 10 
SATURDAY MAFCH 8 a.-"--Av.....,.. 
For Tld<f'llnlorrnaton Cal(219) 238-5134• (219) 239·5157 
8:10p.m. 
position as a freshman, and Todd Hacker, another freshman, starts as the No. 4 man. Transfer sophomores Morrill Hay and Panos Kambadelis, from Greece, will round out the singles team. 
'Ibe Irish will play two freshmen, Brian Kalbas and Tim Carr, in the No. 1 and No. 2 singles positions. Sop­homore Dan Walsh will play at No.3, followed by Nelligan, freshman Dave Reiter, and sophomore Paul Daggs. 

In the doubles competition, Cahill's illness has forced Fallon t~ alter the Irish lineup for Sunday. Taking Cahill's position alongside Nelligan on the No. 2 doubles team will be Kalbas, and this late shuffling of the doubles lineup has cast some ,_, doubt over the Irish doubles play. 

The Observer 

Friday, February 21, 1986-page 14 

Senior hockey co-captain 

Thebeau made right choice for ND 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team's co-captain for the last two seasons, the record-holder for most goals scored in a season by an Irish defenseman, the owner of a 1.64 points-per-game average, which ranked him among the top 40 NCAA Division I scorers last year ­those are just some of the im­pressive statistics that senior defenseman Bob Thebeau has com­piled during his four-year Irish hockey career, in addition to strug­gling through many tough times. 
Probably one of the hardest deci­sions that Thebeau encountered at Notre Dame occured at the end of his freshman year. When he decid­ed to come to Notre Dame , Thebeau received a full scholar­ship, but at the end of his freshman year Notre Dame dropped all hockey scholarships. Thebeau had to decide whether or not he would remain at Notre Dame, or transfer to another university to play on scholarship. He feels that his deci­sion to stick it out has had its ad­vantages and disadvantages. 
"By staying with the Notre Dame hockey program, I haven't been able to participate in the best of college hockey, and as a result, my game has not improved as well as I would have liked," says Thebeau. "However, Notre Dame has provid­ed me with a lot of playing time. Consequently, my skills as a 

.---SUPER KEG SALE---. 
$31.88
r Choice: Bud -Bud Lite Strohs-Oid Milwaukee 
CORKTOWNE 




~~!!zv~c. 
StsteRdlld23, %mile MtSt ofMartin's Supermarlc&t 
:fn.QOS 
. --------------­

FRIDAY VINO .a Rom.a Nite! Wine I Coolers, etc. 

I 

\_\ 
SATURDAY 

( 
Come dance the night away at

\ 
) 
.. The Club.. ~ all are welcome!! 

'---------./tJ 

·,'
i 


j 

hockey player have developed. If I had gone to a major hockey school, I'm sure my playing time would have been less. And that, in addi­tion to the added pressure, might have hampered me more than just the weakness of our schedule." 
Lefty Smith, head coach of the Notre Dame hockey team, feels that Thebeau should be credited for his decision. 
"The Notre Dame hockey pro­gram takes its hat off to Bob for his decision to stay," says Smith. "Bob decided to remain at Notre Dame even though he knew that he would not be surrounded by the same level of competition that his game war­rants. 
"Over the past few years, Bob has been a positive force for the team. He is our key defenseman. He is a dedicated, hard worker, whose excellent shot and good com­petitive attitude make him a strong player." 
This year Thebeau's statistics are once again impressive. Going into this weekend's series with Northern Arizona, he has scored 32 points on 13 goals and 19 assists. 
Though he is labeled as a defenseman, Thebeau is very offensive-minded. Last season, he scored 19 goals, an all-time high for an Irish defenseman. Whose record did he break? His own, of course. Thebeau believes that his best quality is his offense skills. 
wrhroughout my years at Notre Dame, I have tried to maintain a 
. 

game that is strong both defensive­
ly and offensively," he says. "I 
would have to say that my offen­
sive skills overshadow my defensive 
performances. I am very offensive­
minded, and this is my greatest 
asset as a hockey player." 

While becoming one of the top 
Irish defensemen of all time, 
Thebeau has accumulated many 
other scoring distinctions. He has 
had three career hat tricks. In one 
\\o,;;.kend series against Alabama­
Huntsville during his junior cam­
paign, he scored two goals and had 
three assists in the opener, and the 
following night, he came back and 
added a hat trick and an assist to 
his weekend total. 

Smith, when asked about 
Thebeau's chances of going to the 
NHL, said that he didn't know ex­
actly what his captain planned to 
do. 

"I don't know what the probabili­ty of Bob going through the try-out system is," said Smith. "I do know that his competitive attitude can only be a plus if he plans to try for the NHL. Bob is an extremely com­petent hockey player who will make the decision when the time comes." 
Thebeau thinks that playing hockey over in Sweden will be in his future plans. 
Thebeau and the Irish travel to Northern Arizona for two away games this weekend. Because of last weekend's sweep at Kent State, the hockey team is very optimistic of its chances of winning. 


111e Ut~serYer1raua ranoraty 
Irish senior co-captain and defenseman Bob Thebeau looks to send the puck into the offensive zone in earlier season Notre Dame hockey action against Lake Forest. Mike Keegan has a feature on Thebeau at left. ­


Our exc/usizJe new check: Notre Dame 5 Gofden Dome stands out against a Madonna blue sky. 
Capture the Spirit! Order Your Golden Dome Checks 

NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
239-6611 

; {~ 
' ' 


Friday, February 21, 1986-page 15 

Bloom County 





ACROSS 1 Russ. sea 5 Secure 9 Church section 
13 Take out, in 
printing 14 Select 15 "-we all?" 16 Bard's river 17 God of war 18 Spoke 
ceaselessly 
19 Boxing champ/ "Arabian Nights" man 
22 Red or Yellow 23 Mimic 24 Israeli 
airline 25 Black cuckoo 26 lnorder 28 Surpass 31 Alliance 
acronym 34 Responsibility 35 Alms 36 Tenn. senator/ 
author @ 1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 2/21/86All Rights Reserved
39 Sagacious 
Thursday's Solution
40 Eskimo knives 41 Prevent 4 MsHome 42-Paulo 5 Shrimp­43 Author Harte 6 Invisible 44 Pie-mode emanations 45 Offensive 7 Took to one's 
smell heels 47 "Do -say... " 8 Ms Lanchester 48-tree 9 Turk.cab 
(at bay) 10 A body of law 51 Baseball star/ 11 Conceited one 
choreographer 12 Labbumer 56 Watchful 15 Seed covers 57 Observance 20 Landed estate 58 Contends 21 Rental 59 The end document 60 River to the 25 Fit to-
Baltic 26 Proboscis 61 Ms KeH 27 Possessive 62 Gala 29 Having wings 2121/86 63 Sea bird 30 Skin 64 Paper pack 31 Adages 43 Parks and Lahr 50 Indian state 
32 Director Kazan 44 Behind a ship 51 Golf stroke DOWN 33 Kind of coHon 46 Uncanny 52 "It's a sin 1 White House 34 Make eyes at 47 Garden bloom to tell-" 
name 35 Prima donna 48 Weld 53 Canter 2 Musical show 37 Finnish city 49 Famouswork 54 Stash 3 Hllo hello 38 Sound of art 55 At any time 
SPONSOR: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
§aQ JEa!Jfll® ()~ JF(J~(f 

Friday, February 21st, Saturday, February 22nd 

7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
@ 1986 Universal Press Synd1cate 
Campus 

FIUD>AY,~.21 
•12:
15 P.M. · Forum, "The College Cur· riculum and the Special Mission of Notre Dame," Dean Roger Schmitz, College of En· gineering, Room 123 Center for Social Con· cerrts, Soup and Bread S1 

•2:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "Separation and Reversal in Christian Soteriology," Marilyn Adams, UCLA, Center for Continuing Educa­tion 

•3:30 
P.M. -Seminar, Dr. Michael Carroll, University of California, Berkeley, Room 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, "The Indwelling of the Spirit," William Alston, Syracuse University, Center for Continuing Education 

•6, 
8, 10 P.M. & 12 A.M.. Movie, "Romancing the Stone," Haggar Game Room, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by the Freshman Council, SMC 

•7, 
9 & 11 P.M. -Movie "Boys of Brazil," Knights of Columbus Building, Sl, members free 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 P.M.-Movie, "St. Elmo's Fire," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, S1.50 

•7:30 
& 9:30 P.M. -Movie, "Death Watch," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Friday Night Film Series 

•8:00 
P.M. · "And Yet They Are Not Three Gods But One God," Peter van Inwagen, Syracuse University, Center for Continuing Education 




The Invaluable lizard setter. 
SATURDAY, FEB. 22 
•9:00 
A.M. -Lecture, "Warring Against the Law ofMy Mind: St. Paul on Weakness ofWill," Norman Kretzmann, Cornell University, Center for Continuing Education 

•11 
:00 A.M. · Lecture, "Eschatological Prag­matism," James Ross, University of Pennsyl­vania, Center for Continuing Education 

•1:00 
P.M.-Reception for AFROTC Parents, library Lounge 

•2:00 
P.M. -Lecture, "Christian Uberty," Robert Adams, UCLA, Center for Continuing Education 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture, "Suffering Love," Nic­holas Wolterstorff, Center for Continuing Education 

•7:00 
P.M. -Movie, "One Loving Family," library Auditorium, Sponsored by Interna­tional Student Affairs 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 P.M. -Movie, "St. Elmo's fire," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by the SAB, J1.50 


S~AY,~.23 
•2:00 
P.M. -Art Exhibition, "Richard Stevens: Recent Photographs," O'Shaughnessy Gallery East, (until April 13) 

•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, An Tostal, Ubrary Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB 

•8:00 
P.M. -Organ Recital, Becky Bruick, graduate student, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by the Dept. ofMusic 

•8:00 
P.M. -Play, "Great Expectations," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Sponsored byJohn M. Dugan Performing Arts Series 



Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Baked Haddock  Tuna Salad Croissants  
Stir Fry Seafood  Fish and Chips  
Tortellini  Frittata  
Vegetarian Omelets  



... 
-
ANTOSTAL GENERAL MEETING 
,.. Sunday~ February 23, at 7:00pm In dae Ubrary Auditorium 

.. 
Anyone lntBreated In participating , please attend. 


Friday, February 21, 1986 -page 16



S~orts 

Irish look to continue winning ways against rejuvenated Miami program 
In the backcourt the Hurricanes and eight rebounds, while David
By LARRY BURKE Assistant Sports Editor start 5-11 Ken Presto ( 10.6 ppg., Rivers added 15 points and Mark Stevenson chipped in with 12
3.4 rpg.)and 6-1 Bryan Hughes(7.3 points. Tim Kempton had a solid all­
MIAMI -It's the renewal of a ppg., 4.2 rpg.) The first man off the around game, scoring 11 points and
familiae and bitter rivalry, but this bench for Miami is 6-10 Tim Harvey time the two teams will be meeting ( 7.1 ppg., 6.0 rpg. ), a transfer from pulling down 12 rebounds. in a less-familiar setting. Georgia Tech. 

The Irish have won two of their A Notre Dame-Miami matchup last three games on the road and are
"I think you have to give Bill has a lot of meaning for college foot­zeroing in on the 20-win mark as
Foster a great deal of credit for put­ball fans, especially over the past tournament time rolls around.
ting together a program that has several years. But Saturday night's 

done as well as this one in its first meeting between the Irish and the "Our goal hasn't changed," says
year back," says Irish head coach Hurricanes marks the first time that Phelps. "We want to be playing as
Digger Phelps. "You never know for the two teams will meet on the bas­well as we possibly can when the
sure what kind of expectations are ketball court. 

NCAA Tournament starts in March.
realistic in the first season, but 

All these experiences, whether it's
they've taken a predominantly­

The game will be played in the playing Miami or Marquette or New
freshman team and made it into a

Hurricanes' james L. Knight Center Orleans on the road down the
very competitive basketball team.

(capacity 5,020) and the contest stretch or playing emotional games
lbey've beaten established teams

will be televised live by ESPN start­like DePaul and Dayton at home, all
like Georgia ( 81-78) and Florida

ing at 7:30p.m. these games should help us prepare.
State ( 83-75) and taken Arizona to 

The more difficult things we've ex­
Miami's basketball program is overtime (before losing, 81-74) and 

perienced, the more comfortable
back on its feet for the first time they haven't been afraid to play 

we should be in March. Plus, it's im­
since the 1970-71 season. Head people like North Carolina or Duke 

portant to be playing well these last
Coach Bill Foster's dub stands at or Notre Dame or Marquette, even 

few weeks as far as the NCAA com­
12-12 after a 104-82 loss to with such a young team." 
mittee is concerned."
Duke in Durham, N.C., Wednesday Miami has faced five teams on the
night. 

IRISH ITEMS -Barlow is cur­
Notre Dame schedule this season rently fifth in the nation in
With nine freshmen on their besides Duke. Of those the Hur­roster, the Hurricanes are paced by a ricanes defeated Hofstra ( 70-63) free-throw shooting accuracy, con­Eric necting on 91 percent ofhis chances
quintet of first-year players. and Manhattan ( 79-61 ), while losing Brown. a 6-6 forward out of Brook­to UCLA ( 1 09-64), Dayton ( 79-68), from the charity stripe. . . The lyn, N.Y., is Miami's leading scorer Irish as a team are third in the nation
and twice to New Orleans (57-64 and rebounder, averaging 17 points and 75-65). in that category, sinking 78.1 per­and 7.4 rebounds per game. 
cent of their foul Swingman Dennis Burns, at 6-5, adds Phelps' Irish ( 18-5) are fresh off a shots. . . Notre Dame slipped in 3 points and 3.3 rebounds per 102-4 7 thrashingofManhattan Wed­team rebounding margin last week, game, and 6-1 0 center Mark Ric­nesday night at Madison Square Gar­though, and now ranks seventh in hardson ( 10.1 ppg., 4.9 rpg.) rounds den. Senior captain Ken Barlow the nation, with an 8. 3 average 
out the Miami frontcourt. paced the Irish attack with 24 points rebounding differential. 


Women's team faces important trip to Chicago 
r-By MARlY STRASEN Dayton to lose." 
Sports Writer The Flyers ( 9-1) handed Notre 
f 

Dame its only conference loss ofthe 
CHICAGO -Fot the Notre Dame season by a 61-58 score at the ACC women's basketball team, a earlier this year, and are the only ot­weekend in the Windy City means her team in the conference with just much more than another pair of one defeat. To keep pace with games. The season could be on the Dayton, the Irish have to hope for a line. solid performance in both games 
The Irish open their weekend this weekend. series tonight against Loyola and Loyola ( 7-2) currently sits in third move on to face DePaul in a Sunday place in the conference, and always afternoon contest. Notre Dame manages to impress DiStanislao. enters the two-game set with a 7-1 "Loyola is a very consistent team," record in the North Star Conference she said. "I say that every time I talk ( 1 5-7 overall), and cannot afford a about them because they always loss to eitherofits conference rivals. come to play. They don't do a lot of 
Notre Dame head coach Mary DiS­fancy, unpredictable things. They tanislao realizes that a loss in either just do what they do, and they do it of the two games could hurt her well. We're just going to have to do 
) squad's chances of repeating as the it better." 
•, '· 

North Star Conference champion. But it might not be that simple, as "It's really important that we win the Ramblers are a tough team to two this weekend," said DiStanislao. beat on their home court. DiStanis­Irish forward Kathy Brommeland looks to drive "No matter what happens, you want lao outlined the things her team will 
on James Madison's Julie Franken in women's to call your own shots. If we split 
see CHICAGO, page 10
basketball action earlier this season. The Irish will these two, we have to wait for 
r 
' 
IJJ
' 
, 
)~ ,' ~ 
} 1. ; } 
r· 
; 
': 
. .I j 
' 

r 
~ 
~ ~~~ 
,,
r 
r· 

.I 
i
t ; 
.'·~ ·:. 

travel to Chicago this weekend for important North Star Conference games with Loyola and DePaul. Marty Strassen has details at right. 






