--------------------------~----­

~----------------------------------------------------------------~------­
Peace march -page 10 


Welcome back 
Hospital declares Rivers' condition 'good' following auto accident 

By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
~pon ... Lduur 
Notre Dame basketball star David Rivers was pronounced in good condition and moved out of intensive care yesterday, according w a statement released by his doctor at Elkhart Gen­eral Hospital. 
According to Dr. Kirby Gross, who per­formed surgery on Rivers, he remains in good spirits and is in good condition. 
Barbara Barret, a hospital spokeswoman, said Rivers, who was involved in an auwmobilc accident along with former teammate Ken Bar­low, was not scheduled for more surgery, and doctors were still monitoring him for infection. 
Rivers sustained a 12-15 inch gash across his abdomen after being hurled through the window of a van driven by Barlow last Sunday morning at approximately I a.m. on Elkhart County Road I. The two had been working and living in Elkhart Juring the summer. Barlow said that he swerved to avoid an oncoming ve­hicle which had veered into his lane and lost control of rhc van. The v;w then went otf the road and rolled over, pitching Rivers through the windshield. 
According to Notre Dame sports intorma­tion director Roger Valdiserri, Barlow said that 


the driver of the other car stopped, and he asked 
Students returning to campus received the Dame Avenue. The wearin o' the green will Fighting Irish bit the field Sept. 13 against traditional green and gold welcome on Notre be popular witb football fans again when tbe Michigan. the other driver to go for help. see RIVERS, page 12 

LaFortune renovations slated for late-October completion 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 

T\:t·w, bliror 
Onct: hopt:d to be completed 
by this rime, the renovation of the 
Lafortune Student Center is now 
scheduled to bt: tlnished hr tht: third 
Wt:t:k of Ouoher, said Don Dedrick, 
dirt:rtor of tht: physic,d plant. 
Construnion of tht: War 
Memorial and tht: additions to tht: 
Nmrt: Damt: Law School art: also 
behind sdll'd uk. Dnl rick said. 
Complt:tion of the Law School 
additions is now slatt:d tilr Octoht:r, 
whill' the War l\.lt:mori;d should hl· 
fin1sht:d hy tht: t:nd of nt:xt wt:ek, 
ht: said. 
Although tht: student ct:ntl'r 
Associated Prt:ss 
SOWETO, South Africa Police killed 12 blacks in Sowcro, a mob hacked a town rounrilor to dt:at h. and 70 people were shot, ht:att:n or stont:d in the worst township riming since t:arly I<)H'i, officials said yt:stt:rday. 
Donors and clergymt:n said 20 pcopll' Wl'fl' killl'd and up to I()() injurnl. Rclativt:s and nt:wspaper) saill tht: dt:ad rangt:d from U to 22 years old and includt:d an I H-yl'ar­old woman. 
Fivl' policl'mt:n were among thl' injured during the night of violence in this huge black city outside 
Joh;mneshurg. Four were wounded by a U<tnd grenade tossed from a will not ht: tlnished until October, parts of the building are essl·ntially complete, Dedrick said. He added that some organizations have alrt·ady moved in. 
Dedri~;k said construction of the student centt:r and law school was slownl hy delays in the delivery of materials and had weather in No­vembn and Dt:ct:mber. 
Tht: delivery of materials really held the projt:cr up, and when one marc rial is not here, it really holds everything up, said Dedrick. 
Construction delays were also caust:d by the wcarhn he indicared. There was quite a bit of rain last November while the crews wcrl· doing outdiX>r work and they jusr 
crowd of .'100 people barricading a road with burning tires. Officers fired shotguns m rt:sponse, otllcials said. 
The roadblock battle was the spark that ignited the riots, said the government Bureau t(,r lnt!>r­mation, the only source of oftlcial intimnation on unrest under the nationwide state of emt:rgency im­posed June 12. 
Residt:nrs said the trouble was rooted in anger over evictions of rt:nt boyrottt:rs by township council police. 
Town clerk Nico Malan said, however, that no evicrions had oc­currnl in the five neighborhoods where the fighting rook place. 
Councilor Sydenham could not get the work done, Dt:drick said. 

Bad weather and delays in the delivery of materials also held con­struction of the War Memorial, Dedrick said. We had a heck of a time getting the black granite from Italy. 
Workers still must lay down sod and tlx the underground sprinkler system before the memorial is complete, he said. 
Dedrick describt:d tht: student center's renovation, begun last year, as being finished floor by tloor, from tht: top on down. As parts are com­pleted, they11 be turned over to the students,· he said. 
Mkwanazi. '56, was killed by youths 
who attacked him on his way home. 
His witt, Novascotia, said the 
young men were angry because one 
of their friends haJ died after being 
shot by guards at the Mkwanezi 
I10USl:. 
Till: outburst in Sowero was by 
t~tr the worst under the emergency 
and tht: death toll.in the battle with 
pol ict: was the highest since I<) 
people were killed March 21, I<)H'i, 
111 the eastern Capt: Province 
township of Langa. 
Higher ont:-day death tolls have 
bet:n recorded this year, but they 
involved clashes of rival black po­
litical and tribal tiKtions. 
see VIOLENCE, page 6 
center will feature an elevator and a ramp, making it accessible to the handicapped, Dedrick said. 
Currently, workers an.: putting the finishing touches on the third floor, which will house Student Ac­tivities, The Observer, the Dome, Scholastic, AJworks, a lounge area and conference rooms. 
l11c oftlces of Student Activi­ties, The Observer and the Dome arc nearly complete, while the other org•mizations' otficcs should be finished by the end of next week, Dedrick said. Srudmr Activities and Tht: Observer have already moved in. 
trim, Dedrick said. Student gov­ernment, the International Student AftitirSIMinority Student Athirs Of­fice lounge, the Black Cultural Arts Council lounge, Theordorc's and club offices will all be located on the second floor. 
Most of those organizations should be able to move in by the end of next week, he said. 
Howevt:r, the undergraduate club, Theodore's, won't be 'ready tile another six or seven weeks, said Dedrick. He added that he didn't know when WVFI-AM would be complete. 
The Ballroom, also located on 
see LAFORTUNE, pap 4 



The Observer 




In Brief , 
A $150,000 gift from the Monsanto Fund has established several undergraduate scholarships in the Colelge of Business Administration. The gift memorialized 1950 alumnus Francis "Jack" Fitzgerald of Frontenac, Mo., who died last April shortly after becoming president and chief operating officer of Monsanto Co., one of the world's largest chemical companies. He apparently suffered a heart attack the morning after he delivered his first "state of the company" address at Monsanto's annual meeting. -P The Observer 
Of Interest 
Notre Dame's chemical engineering depart­ment has been ranked fourth in the nation in the number of doc­tural degrees awarded per faculty member, according to a recent survey by the American Chemical Society. The survey, coverning the academic period from July 1984 to June 1985, reported one faculty member for each chemical engineering doctural candidate at Notre Dame, the same ratio as reported at Stanford University. In the overall number of PhD. graduates in the department, Notre Dame and Purdue University shared the 12th ranking, each having awarded 10 doctorates in 1985. -The Observer 
Acting band director James Phillips was appointed to his position after Robert O'Brien retired last spring, having served 34 years as director. Formerly the associate director of Notre Dame bands, Phillips holds bachelor's and master's degrees in music from Notre Dame. Rev. Edward Mally, C.S.C., assoicate provost, heads a search committee which continues to seek a per­manent director, -The Observer 
Assistant director of security Phillip Johnson assumed his present position after directing campus security at Carleton College, Northfield, Minn. A 1981 Notre Dame graduate, Johnson is licensed or certified in both Minnesota and Michigan as a peace officer. -The Observer 
Dr. Oaudia. Kselman has been named assistant director of Foreign Study Programs by Dr. Isabel Charles, direc­tor. She succeeds Arthur Grubert who now serves full-time as director of International Student Affairs. Last year, she co­directed Notre Dame's program in Angers, France with her hus­band, Thomas. -The Observer 
Six Holy Cross seminarians will take their final vows in the Congregation of Holy Cross Saturday night at 7:30 in Sacred Heart Church. Taking vows will be Tom Daly, C.S.C, of Oceanside, Calif.; Mel DeLaney, C.S.C, of Skaneateles, NY; Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C, of New Bedford, Mass.; Charles Gor-. don, C.S.C., of Franklin, Mass.; Jeffrey Liddell, C.S.C., of Mishawaka, Ind.; and Robert Reetzel, C.S.C. of Kerrville, Texas. A reception honoring these men and their families will follow each· of the ceremonies. -The Observer 
~ ·-The Observer 
Design Editor ....... Tracy Schindele Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Scott Bearby Design Assistant ........ Rob Luxem Features Copy EditorCaroline Gillespie Layout Staff .......... Mike Mojica Features Layout . ..... Mary Reynolds Typesetters ............ Sean Sexton ND Day Editor . ....·..... Bill Herzos News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann Photographers . ....... James Carroll Copy Editor ............. Jim Riley ................... Paul Oeschger Sports Copy Editor .• Mike Szymanski 
Tht: <MKervcr tllSPS ';t)'J 2··iOU()) is puhlislll'J MunJa}· rhmu~h Fr1d.a)' c:xn:pt Jurin~t c:um 01nJ \'dC.ltiun r..:nuJJo. lne (}bscner is ruhlilhtd h\· the: stlkk'11ts of d.: llnivc:tSi(}· uf Nunt" L>·.tmc and S.Unt Mary'" <:~,llt.·,l;l'. Suhk·ripc:tun m;ay hto run:hua.lliw S-iO f't't )'t""•lr tS2'\ p.-r lf:mnrt·rl h)· v.•ririRJt 1ltt' Ohservrr, P.(). !lux Q, Nurn: l)·.unc:, lnJiano~ IM'\6. 
1lw Ohscr\'~r is a nu·mht:r uf 1bc A!isudah.'C.I Prcs!i. All rermllluninn riJ.:hts an· n·st.'t\'l'c.l. 

Ir-------------------1REGULAR IRAX 99~ 
I PLUl 
I Please present coupon before ordering,
I 
one coupon per peraon, per '-'hillt. NotI valid In combination with any other Rax 


Iltx 
olfer. Olfer good at participating RaxI Reotaurants only. . 
31 1916
I Offer eapln8 October • 1/20 cent cash redemption value I 1986 Rax Resta1.1rants, Inc. 
--------------------· 

GOOD THRU AUG. 31 


~ 277-7026 
I-~--------------------,
Bed lntro Pkg. Booth 
1

110 VISITS ~ 3 Beds ~~ 10 VISITS 1 
~.-~ 3 Booths ~~ 1
1

I $3900 $2QOO $2500 I
n ___________________.. 
"PACKAGE MUST BE COMPLETED BY OCT 1 1986 

DINE IN OR CARRY OUT 

• S2;E-CHAUN • CHINESE • VIETNAMESE <Beer Available> AND AMERICAN DISHES rTI 
"ENJOY A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE
IN ORIENTAL DINING" 
PRIVATE DINING BOOTHS 

v  FRESH INGREDIENTS  
v  NO MAss PRODUCTION  
v  HEAlTHY FAMily STYlE DINING  
6329 UNIVERSITY COtAMONS  

lACROSS FROM UNIVERSIIY PARK MALL' 
SOUTH BEND lN 4&635 

SWEENEY 
DaUy and Nighdy Specials with free munchies 
Monday thna Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thna Saturday 
10:00 pm ·Close 

Join our "Around the World with 80 Beers" Club 
r------------------~
60~0FF I any Baked Potato and medium I soft drink or iced tea 1 Fluffy baked potato with your choice I PUJ 15 of tantalizinq toppin~s. I 
__,__,..___ I
..._...._......_.., lllxl 
....., ··-..._.......... 

.... Ollor .......... I It lhtllu I 
....__...,_ I 
1!1110.-~....__ ..... 

.,._~.,_.,..·•·•,. I.......__,...,_ I 
-------------------~ 

WIOFFIR .• -~ '""'"~"r.ooo--.X i SENIOR ~~ I •~-.oCONfO• ."::-::.·. ~ 
~:~~~~~s =_ ~J-0­
>l
5 

Phone 277-6368 6402 Grape Road Across from University Park Mall on Grape Road 
_ 
~~f,i('~· ·.a..;
y l 1. I I
'I 
J1 • • ' ~ 
!';j_~ , j,, ' 
OPEN ;:~~ ~rir:'.."~mf~~. 
VISA CLOSfO SUNDAY \. 
-272-6702 ........
=-_/ 
"""' I 
.,,.,,,J?t
-~· 
.• liiiil.1lmi!il ; 

---------------------------·----·--···-·-· 


\v'ATERBEDSJ WATERBEDSJ 'v/ATERBEDS 
3\"\owRooM,  'PR.EsEtJ r  io\J~  5C.\400L­ :c. 1).  AND  ANCHor<.  BAND  
M"TT~e: ss ~D  wI~ AN'/  ABSoL uTELY  J:REE  
A  s 29. 95'  VALUE  II..  FREE  .VJITH  YOUR  I. D.  l I  




South Bend Mayor R<>ger Parent (left) met with Saint Mary's President William Hickey yes~erday to discuss plans for the upcoming Saint Mary's 
ThursJay,•August 28, 1986 page 3

The Observer 
Inflation cited as cause of ND tuition increase 
By. MJRIAM HILL 
to say the majority of <iur expenses Senior Scaff Reporter goes into salaries,'' Mason saiJ. Salaries for Noire Dame professors 
Once again, Notre Dame stu­arc now competitive with the best Jcnts and their parents will have to schools in the nation, he added. Jig deeper into their pockets ro pay The cost of automating Univcr­for increases in tuition and room si~y t;Kilities and unexpectedly high and board charges. increases in liability insurance costs 
In a letter sent ·to parents in. account for the rest of the tuition June, the aJministration announce<.! increase, Mason said. Notre Dame's that its $175,422, 100 budget insurance costs have jumped from depends on a $780 hike in under­$475,708 to $1, 7.) I ,.W8 in the pa~t graduate tuition and a$ 180 increase two years, according to Mason. in room, boarJ and launJry charges. Revenue from the increase in 
The cost of unJcrgraduatc tui­room and board charges will pay for tion and room, boarJ and laundry increases in staff salaries and renova­will increase by about twice the rate tions in the dining halls and Jorms, of inflation. Mason said. 
Inflation is projected at 5. 7 per­Mason said the tuition increast cent by the end of 1986, but un­will help the University maintain a dergraduate tuition will rise by 9.9 high quality of education.' We have percent, to $8,625. Room and to have something that is unique,' board charges will jump by 7. I per­he saiJ. We have to have a proJucr cent to $2,725. that people' are ~iiiing to pay some­
Last year, tuition increased by thing extra for.'' 
10.8 percent and room, boarJ and The University will try to case
ND Class of '86 president struck by trailer 
laundry charges by 7.65 percent. the financial burden on stuJcnts by Undergraduates arc nor the only raising about $70 million for fin­drift onto the left shoulJer of the lung, nine broken ribs, a broken stuJcnts who will feel the bite of ancial aid over the next five years,
By ERIC M. BERGAMO 
News staff road. The driver woke up and tried pelvic bone, a rupture<.! spleen anJ the tuition increases, however. Tui­tion for both graJuatc school anJ
to pull the car back onto the road, fractured lower vertabrae. Doctors
• M.B.A. school will rise by $855 to
Last year's senior class prcsiJent, jack-knifing in the process. at that time only gave him a 40 $8,505 and $8,605, respectively.
John Spatz, suffcrcJ serious injuries The first boat flew off the trailer percent chance of surviving. 
Law school tuition will jump bywhen he was struck by a trailer car­and struck Spatz, hurliQg him Jown 
$955 to $9,215. rying two motorboats Aug. 9 on the side of an 85 foot cliff. The Last week Spatz was transfcrrcJ 
Increases in salaries anJ benefits rh~ New York State Thruway. second boat anJ the trailer hit him to Chilton Memorial Hospital in for faculty and staff account for al­
Spatz was travelling with after he hit the bottom. Pompton Plains, NJ, ncar his most all of the increase in tuition, friends to Lake George in the It took rescuers 45 minutes to home. He was rcleascJ from the a'cording ro Thomas Mason, vice Adirondack Mountains when their get Spatz up from the bottom of hospi'tal lin Tuesday and is no~·. president for business affairs. 
Because the University had acar broke Jown in the Catskills. He the cliff. During the operation, one home convalescing. 
goal of having its faculty salaries in was checking the rear end brake of the rescuers was bitten by a cop­·f\e got a bit of a road to follow,'' the top 20 percent in the country,lights when he was hit from bchinJ perhead snake and had to be taken Spatz said about his recovery period the administration has increased fac­
by the trailer. to the hospital. when contacted at his home in ulty salaries by at least 9 percent
The Jriver of the station wagon Spatz was rushed to Greene Wyckoff, NJ. He credited the quick 
for the past seven years. "We arc pulling the trailer had fallen asleep County Memorial Hospital where work of the doctors for saving his a labor intensive industry, that is at the wheel, aflowin • the car to doctors treated him for a unctured life. 
M•cHtANA ·s 


CANCER.
NOT 

KNOWIN& 
THE RISKS 


IS YOUR 
&REAlEST 

RISK. 
' 

1'1\ISHAWA KA S ...owt«>o M 

Sounl 'SEw'l:> S~""~M -I>0'/'41'.1 "TO¥~ N M\.5\-\A.WA\V\ -NQ.T to )::AG-\....&5 ~~ER.M,I\;~~ET 
10'\ L w. 'vJ. 


Sc9b8 U.5. .31 Nd<..IH 
-:l.5~-6'58 b 


o:<1"'-79'1.3 
The Observer Thursday, August 2H, 19H6 page -i 


ND Board of Trustees modifies investment policy at May meeting 
By JOE MURPHY Editor-in-<:hitf 
In its May 9 meeting, the Notre 

Dame Board of Trustees modified 
its stand on investments in com­
panics doing business in South 
Africa. 
The Board also elected Donald 

Keough, president and chief oper­
ating officer ofCoca-Cola Company, 
as its new chairman. Keough 
succeeds Thomas Carney. 
In other action the Board ap­

proved a $20 increase in the student 
activities tee, raising it from S;_:\'5 
per academic year to $55 this year. 
The full board has taken no 

action since the May meeting. The 
trustees will meet again ar their reg­
ular fall meeting Nov. 14. 
The Board added two condi­

tions to its South African invest­
ment policy. 
The Board authorized divest­

ment from those companies doing 
business in South Africa rhar arc 
not influencing the dismantling of 
the system of apartheid, or if cir­
cumstances warrant this action be­
cause offurther deterioration ofcon­
ditions in South Africa. 
In addition, the Board directed 

Corby's set for possible 
•


reopemng 
By TRIPP BALTZ Ntws EJiror 
Corby Tavern may reopen if its. prospective buyers can gcr approval ti-om the Board of Zoning Appeals at a hearing at _):_10 today. 
Two brothers, Thqmas and Robert Przybyli'nski, plan ro scr up a Restaurant-tavern business at the building located at 1026 Corby Blvd., according to John Gourley, their lawyer. 
Gourley said rhe prospective buyers will need a variance to con­tinue legal non-conforming usc of the building. ­
The tavern has been closed.since April 1985. A city ordinance dic­tates no more than two alcohol­serving establishments may operate within 1,000 feet of one another. Currently The Commons and Bridget McGuire's Filling Station operate where Corby, South Bend Avenue, and Eddy intersect. 
Corby tavern was allowed to ope rare for years under a grandfather clause that exempted ir from the ciry ordinance. The Board ofZoning Appeals must approve continued non-conforming usc before the tavern can be reopened. Accor­ding to Gourley, the prospective owners plan to act as full-time managers of the once-popular stu­Jcnt bar. 


LaFortune 
continuedfrom page 1 
the second floor and being useJ for storage, is essentially complete, Dedrick said. However, the stair­way leaJing to the Ballroom still needs painting anJ plastering. 
On the first tloor, construction ts being Jone on the walls and ceiling of The Huddle, he saiJ. If kitchen and serving-line equipment is dclivcrcJ on schedule, The Huddle should be complete by the third week of October. 
Much work still needs to be Jonc on the basement area, he said. 
irs executive commirrcc and irs in­vestment commitrcc to review the South African policy at each meet­ing and report to the full Board. 
The Board also mandated these committees to continue to usc every usc of our influence with companies in which we have investments to support and promote dismantling the system ofapartheid and to mon­itor carefully_ the performance of such companies. The University has investments ofapproximately$_) I. 5 million in approximately .10 com­panics doing business in South Ati-ica.. 
The change in the Boards po­sition comes after months of dcbare on the issue of divestment. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh has stated publicly his opposition to divest­ment at this time. The Notre Dame undcrgr;tduatc student body sup­ported divestment in a referendum held lasr March, and rhc Faculty Senate voted for divestment in April. 
Last fall, the Board strengthened its policy of selective divestment, a policy it has sup­ported since 1978. The Board declined to cndor<,. total divestment 

by any particular dare, however. At that rime, the Board also adopted provisions which require 
-companies to promote the elimina­tion of aparthciJ in the whole of South African society_ The U niversiry has dives red from II companies which refused to sign the Sullivan Principles, which arc designed only to elimi­nate apartheid in the workplace. In aJdirion to naming Keough as its new chairman, the Board also created the position of vice chair­man. Andrew McKenna was sl'iec­tcd to hold this position. 
Keough has served as a trustee since 1978. He was awarded ;m honorary doctorate of laws degree from the U nivcrsity last year and recently finished serving as chair­man of the Sorin Society, an organi­zation which seeks unrestricted giving to Notre Dame. 
McKenna, a 1951 Notre Dame graduate, has served as a trustee since 19H I. He is J ircctor of both the Chicago Bears of the National Football League and the Chicago Cubs major baseball team. 
Both Keough and McKenna have two-year renewable terms. 
• 

That you spent all summer thinking about organic chemistry and Kafka. 
Thats why we're stocked up with a full selection of all members of the Apple~ Macintosh1M personal computer family 

Because whatever you're going to be doing in school this year, there$ a Macintosh that can help you do it better. 
From the enhanced Macintosh 512K to the Macintosh Plus, students evervwhere have learned that working smarter'and doing better in school can be as easy as pointing and clicking. 
And one of our people will be happy to show you the Macintosh system thats best 
suited to your needs and budget. 
So welcome back 
Its been a long, 
lonely summer. 



University of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students  For further information, inquire at the Computing Center.  
can buy Macintosh computers at discounted prices  Room 25  9:00-5:00 M-F  
from the Notre Dame Computer Store.  Phone 239-7 4 77  

©he 1986 Apple'hCompuler Inc. Apple and fiJI' Apple lo!(o are re!(iotered trademarks ojilpple Om1pu1er Inc. Macinrosh is atradwark o'Jfclntosh Laboratories and is
ern!( usedU7i lis express pertnm1on ~ · . 

Thursday, August 28, 1986 page 5

The Observer 
Administration fears new Libyan terrorism 
Associated Press of new plots, saying only that the 
LOS ANGELES -President United States is dealing with Reagan's top ·spokesman said yes­realities in this situation. terday the administration is worried about new terrorist plots by Libya's A senior atfministration official 
Moammar Gadhafi, bur refused. ro had saiJ there is hard evidence that 
say whether there is evidence to back ~he Libyan government has been up that concern. planning anti seeking to execute ter­Larry Speakes saiJ Libya still has rorist acts ... since the U.S. bom­
the capabiIiry to commi r terrorist bing of Libya on April I'S. acts, and we want i:hem ro be fully 
aware that our policy is unchanged. ' But other officials at the White He sought ro discount speculation House and State Department, who that the U~ireJ States is waging a also were speaking only when war of nerves with the Libyan grantetf anonymity, insisted that strongman. there was no such compelling 
Our goal is to prevent Gadhafi evidence. from doing things, not to provoke " We dont have evidence, not of him into doing things, the spokes­any recent attack JirecteJ at us that man told reporters covering w,e can-source with confidence ro Reagan's three-Jay visit here in the Libya," said the State Department midst of the president's West Coast offlcia!:'There is lots of infbrmation summer vacation. of rargc;ring, but it 's.nor unequivo-
But Speakes also refused to spell cal, which is the standard we have out any intelligence-source evidence set fi>r ourselves." 
H-Bomb 'accidentally' 
Cameroonian soldiers wear handkerchiefs to search for more survivors and bodies after a gas protect themselves from the smell of corpses after explosion ripped through part of the country ear­arriving in the city of Souboum to carry on the lier this week. 
dropped 29 years ago 
Associated Press (non-nuclear) explosives to go ott,
Pentagon could discharge 600,000 people 
but not in the correct fashion, he ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -A said yesterday. 
42,000-pound hydrogen bomb ac­Dave Jackson, spokesman for cidentally fell from an Air Force the U.S. Department of Energy in Associated Press officials had prcJictcJ the cuts re­Office of Management and Budget plane 29 years ago, it was Jisclosed Albuquerque, said there was an­quireJ under the law to lower the released a report estimating the fis­yesterday, but officials said there other reason that i r was physically 
WASHINGTON -The Pent­Jcficit wouiJ affect some 200,000 cal 19~7 deficit at roughly $165.4 never was any chance of a nuclear impossible for the Mark 17 to agon wouiJ have to discharge al­active-Jury personnel. billion, or $19.4 billion over target explosion. produce a nuclear explosion in an most 600,000 active-Jury ant! The fiscal 1987 buJgcr year set forth in the Gramm-Rudman No one was injured when the accidental fall. reserve personnel starting in Octo­begins Ocr. I. Act, named for Sens. Phil Gramm, bomb hit an uninhabited area south ber if automatic budget cuts called The spcnJing cuts arc far from R-Texas, anti Warren Rudman, R­of KirtlanJ Air Force Base's control The bomb had a portion of rhe for by the Gramm-Rudman Act arc a certainty. Congress still has rime N.H. rower on May 22, 1957, the Albu­actual weapon removed and put in triggered, the Defense Department to make additional cuts to other The law specifics that half of querque Journal reported 10 a a different location, he said. It was said yesterday. parts of the federal budget, which that $19.4 billion excess, or $9.7 copyright story. routine procedure ar the time. 
Lt. Col. Pete Wyro, a Pentagon would lower the projcctcJ Jcficir billion, must come from military The bomb createJ a crater about The Mark 17 fell I, 700 feet spokesman, saiJ the department's and thus avoiJ triggering the programs, and half from civilian 12 feet deep and 25 feet in Jiameter, from an Air Force B-.~6 bomber as Office of the Comptroller had com­deficit-reduction law. And Congress programs. To meet the target, the ant! minor raJioactive contamina­it was flying to Kirtland Air Force pleted an analysis which shows has yet to replace a key section of budget offices estimated that tion was detected there, govern­Base from Biggs Army Air Field in roughly 510,000 active-duty mem­the law that was struck down earlier defense spending would have ro be ment documents obtained by the Texas, the documents ·said. bers of the services and another this summer by the Supreme Court. reduced by 5. 6 percent and non­Journal said. Kirtland is located just south of Al­280,000 reservists ant! ·Narionai defense programs cur by 7. 6 per­Non-nuclear explosives in the buquerque. GuarJ personnel woulJ haw to be If the reducrions were actually cent. Mark 17 bomb deronated when it The government first reported dischargeJ to satisfy the spending orJereJ, however, the Defense De­hit the ground, the documents said. the accident in 19H I in a brief reJuctions. partment wouiJ lose almost IS per­Of the $9.7 billion that wouiJ Bm non-nuclear explosives must be release saying only that a nuclear 
Those projections arc markedly cent of irs 2. 1-million-member have to be cut from military pro­triggered in a precise manner ro weapon of some kind had been higher than the initial estimates active-duty force and 25 percent of grams, about $200 million would cause a.nuclear explosion, said Rich droppetf. The documents obtained provided by Pentagon ant! Congres­its I. !-million-member force of come from the automatic elimina­Garcia, 'spokesman for the Air Force by the Journal through the Freedom sional BuJget Office officials last reservists and National Guard tion of cost-of-living increases for Weapons Laboratory in Albuquer­of Information Act contain the first week when the latest projccrions for troops. military retirees -leaving $9.5 bil­que. public Jescription of the type of the national buJget deficit for fiscal Last week, the Congressional lion to be cur from other Pentagon When a bomb accitfentally falls, weapon involved and other derails 
19H7 were releaseJ. At the rime, . Budget Office and the pr~sident's programs. the impact of the fall triggers some of the aceident. 
if Gramm-Rudman budget cuts are enacted 
Cafarelli resigns post over summer 
Special to The Observer 

The Folding Bicycle 
Father Francis Cafarelli resigned his post as assistant vice president 

*Folds and unfolds in seconds 
for student service~ during the sum­mer. He will pursue studies at St. John's College, Annapolis, 

·*Rides smooth and comfortable
*Stores anywhere easUy 

Maryland.
*Ideal for campus use 
Vice Presitfent Father David Tyson chose Father Peter Rocca, a 

*3speed 
1970 graduate of Notre Dame, to succeetf Cafarelli. Rocca received a master's degree in rheology from the University in 1973. He also holds degrees in liturgical music and 
Normally $269 
studies from the Catholic University of America. 

NOW$219 
Call or write to order 
Ordained in 1974, Rocca has served as assistant pastor of Saint
DAHON Cycles 
Ignatius Church in Austin, Texas; associate rector of Sacred Heart
P.O. Box 2302 
Church at Notre Dame; and staff
South Bend, IN 46614 
member at Moreau Seminary. He 
is a member of the Provincial Coun.: 
291-3300 

We also make home calls for free demonstrations 
cil of the Indiana Province of the 
Congregation of the Holy Cross.

"rl'··wf'···············-.··v_..-....,...................................-.-.·.·.·.....·.·.·.·.v.·.-.-.·N 
I 1 
_j 


Thursday, August 2H, 19H6 page: 6
The Observer 
Contract negotiator for USX says offer exceeds other union wages 



million people. Helicopters and camouflaged Bosbok spotter planes flew ove{ the haze of smoke from burning rubbish and chimneys, which mixed with occasional wisps of tear gas. 
Yesterday evening, journalists reported that youths in six neigh­borhoods rebuilt barricades troops had tried to dismantle and security forces fired birdshot and rear gas at them. 
Huge boulders, cement blocks, tree branches and car wreckage made barricades in the dirt streets and asphalt roads of White Cicy, scene of the worst riots. White City got the name because it is the best­lighted neighborhood in the _)8­square-mile township. 
Knots of silent, sullen young blacks stood on the streets, glaring at passing cars. 
They will find some target -a councilors home or the home of a policeman,' said a resident who believed more violence was in store. 
Army personnel carriers and police trucks called Casspirs rolled along the back streets or sat in open fields. 
The ever-present armored trucks have inspired bumper stickers in the townships that read: Casspirs are not friendly ghosts. 
Most Soweto schools were deserted yesterday, but the govern­ment said none had been officially closed. 
Residents and police said youths put up barricades ofrocks and debris Tuesday evening, hurled stones and firebombs at police and passing cars and went from house to house ur­ging people to join the battle. 


Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -USX Corp.'s chief contract negotiator told 22,000 idled stee.lworkers their fel­low union members arc working un­der terms not as good as our last offer. 
•• The truth is that the wage and benefit proposal we made is beyond the reach of most industrial workers in our own country, much less abroad :• USX executive vice presi­dent J. Bruce johnston said in a letter released by the company yes­terday in Pittsburgh. 
United Steelworkers members have been off the job since their contract expired July 31, and except for volleys in the press, the two sides have not communicated since then. 
" The USX letter ignores the problems the company created by willfully violating the agreement during the past three years;' said USW treasurer James McGeehan, 
Violence 
continwdfrom page 1 
Violence subsided yesterday af­ternoon in this city of nearly two the union's chief bargainer with the nation's largest stcclmakcr. 
"ThousanJs of our members have lost their jobs as a Jircct result of contracting our anJ the unnecessary usc of overtime by the company:' he said in Las Vegas at the USW's bi­ennial constitutional convention. 
The usc of non-union contrac­tors to work in USX plants has emerged as the biggest stumbling block to a settlement. 
"If money were the only issue, we'd be back on the job already," one top union official said ptivatcly in Las Vegas. 
Johnston cited wage and benefit concessions the USW granted to LTV Steel Co., Bethlehem Steel Corp., anJ InlanJ Steel Corp., the second-, third-and fourth-largest largest producers, and to sixth­ranked National Steel Corp. 
Those competitors arc now taking our jobs as aggressively as i:hey can, Johnston satd in his first letter to employees since Aug. 1. 
Shooting was heard all night. 
This is what the emergency .tries to conceal. Its an ominous sign of times ahead and the beginning of what we fear,' said Winnie Man­

"Our biggest competitor (LTV) now has your work in his mills un­Jcr a steelworker labor contract not as gooJ as our last offer ;"he saiJ. 
Union leaJcrs point out that the four recent settlements conntin strong new language c•trbing the usc of non-union contractors. They say USX is making a direct assault on the union's existence by demand­ing unbridled authority to farm out USW positions. 
Johnston said the company of­fered an hourly wage scale from $9.50 to $14.20, plus incentive pay, premiums for Sunday work, shift work, overtime and holiJays anJ _)0 ocher benefits items. 
"No one likes to take less --its only human to want more -but in the steel business where losses and bankruptcies keep mounting, the package we presented was the very best which conditions permit, one few employers can match,''Johnstoh saiJ. 
dela, wife of jailed African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela. She toured White City at midday ycstcrJay and predicted worse to come. 
Opening Week Specials 

Thursday •••• Heineken, Molson $1.75 
.75~drafts 
Friday •••••••••••• Summer Drinks $1 
.75~drafts 
Saturday ••••••••••••••••••75~ drafts 
Membership cards and applications can be picked up at The Club. 


1 -Lok-Tite plastic 2 aang valve 
1 -Bubbler Corner Filter 
1-Aqua-Mist 4" air bar $29.99 
1-Aqua -Temp Thermometer 
1 --3" Quick Net 
1 -Carbon IF loss 

1-Your First Aquarium Handbook 
Beautiful 

20 Gallon 
GOLDASH Aquarium BOWL KITS 
INCLUDES: Bowl, Hood, Filter
Combo 
Airline Tubing, Filter Cartridge, Plastic Plant, Goldfish Food and Air Pump 
Includes: 20 Gal. 

Woodgrain tank, Plus 2 Goldfish ., Wood pedestal stand, 
Woodgrain hood 
Reg. Sale 
$2476 
$16.99 
et.r 

University Park MaD 
StudentSpecials 
Sept. 1 th ru Sept. 30 
Reg.
10 gal. Deluxe 
$7499
Aquarium kit 
Large 2 gal. size 
COMPLETE 
Sale 

$49.99 



The Observer 

Wear it 

with pride! 
If you have plenty of energy and. a tlair for plt•asi nlr{ tht> pu hlic. you could get a great thing growinl{ with tht• popular nt•w rt>staurant concept, the Olive Garden, opt•ning soon in South Bt•nd. 
Our "Hospitaliano!" • hutton t•xpn•sst•s our upht>at customt•r­pleasing style. And. when you put it on. you'll t>njoy all its advantages: compt>titivt• salaries. complt>tt• traininlr{ and a fun atmosphert'. 
We seek: 

• Hosts IIIHi Hostt>sst•s • Waitt·rs and Waitn•sst>s 
• Barh•ndt•rs • ( 'ashit>rs • Pn•p ( 'ooks • l.int· ( 'ooks 
• 
Pr.oduction Cooks • I>ishwasht•rs • Buspt>rsons 

• 
l 'tility Peoplt• • Pasta Makt>rs • Pizza ( 'ooks 


So join in tht• spirit of "Hospitaliano~" ·.And hutton up a tt>rrifil' new joh. Please apply in pt>rHon Monday through Saturday, between H a.m. and 6 p.m., at the Olive Gardt•n.ltalian Restaurant, 6410 Grape Road, MiHhawaka, 1!'1465·1-&. An Equal Opportunity Affirmatiw Action Employt>r. 





BOT'C 
Gateway to o great woy of l,fe. 
ThursJay, August 2H, 19H6 page_7_ 

Obse"er announces new 'ca10pus network' 
How often do students eat off campus? What do students think about the increase in the activi­ties fee or the NCAA's higher academic standards for student athletes? 
The Observer waot,s to find out. That's why it's creating a research department to compile statistical data on campus, local and national concerns. 
The Observer Campus Net­work, should be operating by Sept. 15. The network will con­sist of representatives from each hall and section. Applications 
, 
will be available soon for those 
interested in the dorm positions. 
The purpose of the network 
will be to enable The Observer to report its readers' opinions. The network will conduct read­ership surveys, campus-wide :surveys, and random polling on 
a regular basis. 
Administrators, student and campus leaders have complained in the past. they do n~t know what students think and want. The network will try to capture 

1 
the opinions of the community 1
,
served by The Observer. 
:fH:fMUJIS.. 
• •••••ROADWAY PACKAGE SYSTEM •••••• 
TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT 
PART-TIME POSITIONS COLLEGE STUDENTS 
Roadway Package System. Inc. a new mdependent subsrdrary ol Roadway Servrces. Inc.. has entered the small package market. and has challengrng en­try level opportunrtres rn operatrons. 
The positions are responsrble lor drspatchrng. dock operatrons. rnterfacing wrth sales Ioree and upper level management, and varrous adminrstratrve du­ties. These positions will groom an rndrvrdual lor sates or upper level operatrons management. 
The rdeal candidate wrll be energetrc, hardworkrng and goal-orrented. College students wrth good com­munrcatrons skrlls and currently pursutng a BA/BS degree encouraged to apply. 
We offer an excellent compensatron and benelrts package. Qualified candidates should send therr resume inctudrng salary history, tn conlrdence, to: 
IOADWAY PACKAGE SYSTEM, IIC. 
snM County Ad. a3 Elkhart. IN 41517 
An Equll Oppor1untty AH.rmahveo At. I tOn Employer 

THE AIR FORCE HAS A LOT TO OFFER 
IT ADDS UP TO OPPORTUNITY 
Air Force ROTC is the first step toward your future. While you're in college AFROTC means leadership training, tui· tion assistance, and $100 a month in living expenses. After college, AFROTC can mean a commission as an Air Force officer with the pride, responsibility and experi­ence that are part& of our great way of life. You'll be on the fast track toward the goals you've set for your future. Check out Air Force ROTC. Two-, three-and four-year 
. scholarship programs are available in your 
area. For your nation and yourself, find out 
more about Air Force ROTC. Contact: 
CONTACT: Capt Samuel S. Gaglio 239-6634/6635 


The Observer 




r 
' 
r 
I I ' 
I 
I 
~ 
I I I 
Want to tell your buddy in Boise about the big ballgame? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 

Want to tell your sister in Scarsdale about studying Spencer? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Want to tell your girl in Galveston about going goofy without her? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Any time you pick up the phone and dial up Clark long distance, you'll dial up savings. Because Clark quality long 
distance costs less... 5°/o less than AT&T for comparable calls. 
So make your first call a can to Clark's on-campus representative at 283-4150. Or visit our office in Room G89, Memorial Library. And phone home...for less. 



CLqRKTELECOMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
l I 

~ 
"ie~~_O_i_n__t____________~Th~ursday~.Aug~·ust2~8.19~86p~agc9 
Viewpoint Policy 

Articles: 
I. All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit guest columns, letters to the editor, or cartoons to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
While indiiduals not associated with the 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community may submit guest columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons, the Viewpoint depart­ment gives priority to those individuals who are directly associated with the community. 
II. All columns, letters to the editor, and cartoons submitted to the Viewpoint depart­ment become the property of The Observer. 
Any further use of these commentaries without the written consent of The Obserer is prohibited. Not-for-profit organizations, those organizations which have a reciprocal­usage agreement and those organizations of which The Observer is a member may be granted permission to publish commentaries with the permission of the editor-in-chief or the permission of the managing editor and the Viewpoint editor. If the commentaries have not been printed in The Observer, the 
Viewpoint editor may return them to the authors. 
III. The Viewpoint department reserves the right to edit all commentaries submit­ted to the Viewpoint department. The Observer has no obligation to print commen­taries submitted. Commentaries will not be printed if they are libelous, unintelligible or submitted by anyone mentally unbalanced. 
IV. All commentaries submitted to The Observer must bear the signature of the author. Under no circumstances will unsign­
ed commentaries appear in print in the View­point section of The Observer. The author's name appearing in print must be one by which the author is commonly known. 
V. Commentaries submitted as letters to the editor may not exceed three in number from the same individual or organization within the same academic semester. There is no limit to the number of times an in­dividual or organization may have their com­mentaries appear in print as guest or regular columnists. 
VI. All commentaries printed in the View­point section must be verified before being printed. The means of verification are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor. 
VII. Only those individuals authorized to speak as representatives for a group will be allowed to use the organization's name. In such cases, the primary author of the com­mentary is the individual(s), and the com­mentary is, in effect, only being co-signed by the organization.VIII. Commentaries which appear in the Viewpoint section may not have been printed previously in other newspapers, magazines or publications. Ex­ceptions to this procedure are those organizations of which The Observer is a member, quotations used for commentaries and "Quote of the day." Syndicated columns are also excluded from this procedure. 
IX. 
The opinions expressed in the View­point section are not necessarily those of the editorial board. House editorials appear in the Viewpoint section of The Observer. Regular columnists, those whose columns appear on a regul~r basis; guest columnists, those whose columns do not appear on a regular basis; letters to the editor; and car­toons are commentaries. Such status is deter­mined by the Viewpoint editor in all incidences except house editorials. The House Editorial Guidelines and the Insta House Guidelines are included in the House Editorial Policy. 

X. 
Paid employees of The Observer are not permitted to have their commentaries ap­pear in the Viewpoint section as letters to the 


editor. Regular columnists and members of the Viewpoint staff also are not eligible to have their commentaries appear in the View­point section as letters to the editor. The status of such individuals is determined by the Viewpoint editor. Those whose com­mentaries appear in print in column form may not respond to criticism of that com­mentary in letters to the editor. 
XI. This policy must be approved by the editorial board and can be amended by a ma­jority vote of the editorial board. All pro­cedures not covered in this policy statement are left to the discretion of the Viewpoint editor in consultation with the editor-in­chief. The procedures outlined in this policy apply only to the Viewpoint department of The Observer. 
XII. No commentaries of any kind will be printed in the Viewpoint sectiort concerning any candidate for student govermpentot>r hall office once the official campaign perfod has begun for that office. This ban on commen­taries is to continue until the election for this 
position has been completed. The Observer has the right to comment on any candidate or issue it wishes throughout the campaign period. At any time, the editor-in-chief and the Viewpoint editor may suspend this article. 
XIII. This policy is available to the public during normal business hours and must be prominently displayed in the Viewpoint department of The Observer. This policy should appear in its entirety in The Observer in the fall academic semester; however, prin­ting the policy is not mandated by this amendment. 

Doonesbury 
AH, T&6UCIGALPA! 
7HE3 816 600SIH 5HE3 
5UR£ HASOfANGEll 
5/NC£3 tueFIRSTSE.T 
IJPSHOPHf3f<El 
The Observer 

P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Untver· Stty of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College It does not necessar.ty reflect the poi1C1es of the admtntstratton of etther instttutton. The news is reported as e~ccurately and ObJeCtively as posstble Unstgned editorials represent the optntOI"' of a maJOrtty of theEdttonal Board. Commentartes. letters and the lnstde Column present the vtews of the1r authors Column space IS available to all members of the community and the tree expresston of varvtnq optntons on campus. through letters. 1s encouraged. 
Hesburgh welcomes 
students' return to ND 
Dear Notre Dame Men and Women: 
Welcome back. I can tell from the look on so many faces here that you all had a wonderful summer and are glad to be back, even though that means hitting the books again. The summer will wear off fairly quick­ly when the first classes begin and then there will be excitement of another kind in the air as well. 
Governor John Gilligan and his wife and Father Bill Beauchamp and I travelled around the world this summer by way of Moscow and Beijing in connection with our new In­stitute for International Peace Studies. We had great meetings in Moscow and Beijing and secured the cooperation of the Russian and Chinese Academies of Science in our project to bring young Russians and Chinese, as well as British, French, Japanese, and Americans, here for a year as Peace Fellows. We also secured the acceptance of two of the top scientists in each Academy to serve on our International Advisory Board for the In­stitute. 
I would like to add to the welcome above a special word to seniors who will become 
very nostalgic as their final year at Notre Dame progresses. To the juniors, you are better than halfway to graduation now. To the sophomores, just don't let sophomore slump catch up with you so that this may be a great year. And to the freshmen, a very special welcome for the four greatest years of your lives that stretch ahead of you. 
To all of you, including our graduate students as well, may I say that you are in my Mass daily for all blessings during this next school year which will be my final one as. President. It is a sobering thought that I 
wtll be 70 years old next May and will have spent exactly half of my life in this exciting post. Much of the joy has come from long generations of students who seem to get even better as the years pass. They always were great. 
Again, welcome back and have a great year. 
Ever devotedly in Notre Dame, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
An effective Viewpoint dependent on its readers 
In drawing up a list of the top ten phrases used to describe Darners, leading the list is "they are all alike." It is said that in terms of dress, appearance, background and opinion, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are homogeneous. 
Scott Bearby 
but wait, there's more 
On t~e surface, the stereotype probably has some merit. Take a walk down the quad and you will see a lot of similarity. However, in two years at Notre Dame, I have learned that not everyone thinks alike and fortunate­ly these differing opinions are heard vocal­ly in classrooms,dining halls and dorm rooms. 
One of the best examples in seeing the dif­ferent interests and concerns at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is the very section you are reading, Viewpoint. This is a viewpoint on Viewpoint. 
The Viewpoint pages do not reflect what the average student is thinking, but rather what each individual feels about a particular issue. The goal of the editorial department this year is to have more individuals con­tribute their views to our newspaper so that the pages will be more representative of the 
Garry Trudeau 

5TIU.HA5THAT A5 I 5A>: SMALL 70IA/N &Vl3RYONe's &XC/TW A80UT7He MONeY 
I 

student body. Our goal is to get as many facets of an argument as there are on the campus. 
Last year over 500 letters and 300 columns from students, faculty, administrators and concerned individuals appeared in View­point. In these 800 commentaries there were a range of insights from campus issues to in­ternational concern. These individuals decid­ed that their opinions to make a difference. 
Viewpoint would like to continue the quality of well-written, accurate, interesting columns and letters. Quality translates into credibility, which is our main objective. The department is more than willing to work with any interested individual who has a statement to make. 
The 800 commentaries printed last year are a significant number, however, The Observer has a circulation of 12000 in­dividiuals daily. If the Viewpoint pages are truly to reflect the entire Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community, more input must be received. Viewpoint must achieve a greater quantity of letters and columns in order to be an open forum which shows how diverse the student body is. 
Quote of the day 
"To carry anything to an end worth reaching you must be willing to commit yourself to a course, perhaps a long and hard one, without being able to foresee ex­actly where you will come out." 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. (1841­1935) 

General Board  
Ed,tor·tn·Chlef  Joe Murphy  Busmess Manager  
Managmg Ed1tor  Kevtn Becker  Controller . .  
V1ewpomt Ed1tor.  Scott Beart,y  ·  Product1on Manager.  
Sports Editor. .  Dennis Corngan  Photography Manager ..  
Accent Ed1tor  .. Mary Jacoby  Advertising Manager.  
E:a111t Mary's Ed1tor.  Margte Kersten  Systems Manager.  
News Editor  . .  Trtpp Baltz  Graphic Arts Manager .  
News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski  

Founded November 3,1966 
. Enc Scheuermann Alex VonderHaar . Chrts Bowler . .. James Carroll . Anne M.Culligan 
. . Shawn Sexton ...... Mark Weimholt 

Accent 
A Blistering Commitment 
r r 
r to nuclear disarmament 
r 
r 
r 
r takes its toll on the feet 


~ 
r 
MARY JACOBY 

r 
r 
features editnr 

r 
r· 
Will world peace be 

r 
acheived if 600 people torture 
r 
their feet for nine months?
r Not likely, members of the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament admitted during a two-night stopover on the outskirts of the Notre Dame campus. The march, which has gained nation-wide publicity since its beginning March I in Los Angeles, made camp last Saturday on White Field, adding a surprising splash of color to the normally nondescript area. "I think if it (the march) is go­ing to do anything, it's going to serve to raise consciousness," Chris Haygeman, a member of the march, said. The nine-month walking tour of the United States will end Nov. 15 in Washinton, D.C. Although most marchers are realistic about the movement's ability to achieve global nuclear disarmament, john Stephens, another member of the march, put the choice most succinctly: "It's one way or the other, man. There's no right or wrong way to get bloWlfl up." 
The routine for the marchers is simple but strenuous. After walking all day, the group usual­ly sets up camp in the next town, eats dinner and then goes to bed. The reaction of the peo­
~ 
~· 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r r 
r-
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r r 
l r 
r 
pie in the towns is what makes the routine worthwhile, Haygeman said. "People are already inclined to be for us. Overall the reactions have been incredible. People will come out and thank us for what we're do­ing," she said. 
"The power of this movement is we're not legislators, we're not big power people, we're human beings just like everybody else. And that's what it's going to take, individuals tell­ing people to come out and say 'No, this has to stop. We can't put up with this threat,' '' Stephens said. 
Although there are currently between 600 and 700 people participating in the march, the original plan called for 5,000 participants -including celebrities -in an effort to raise $20 million in donations. "We didn't quite get the corporate support we had hoped for," 
Stephens said. "Right now it really is a grass-roots thing." 
"We have 600 marchers, but probably ten times that many people who are really actively involved with the march as far as raising money and publicity are concerned," Kent johnson, a friend of Stephens', said. 
The project has survived many other problems since its beginn­ing, the most adverse being the bankruptcy of its funding cor­poration, Propeace, three weeks after the march began. Pro­peace's bankruptcy left the mar­chers stranded in the middle of the Mojave Desert. 

"We just watched everything go away as we were sitting in the middle of the desert,'' Haygeman said. "And it was so cold outside you couldn't leave your tent after 6:30 in the even­ing." Fortunately the legal ques­tions were straightened out and other corporate donations were collected, enabling the march to continue on its way. Since then the march has caught up with its schedule, averaging 15 to 25 miles a day. 
Except for a few punks with spiked pink hair and even some "normal" looking people, enter­ing the Peace March compound was like going through a time­waq~ back to the '60s. The Notre Dame students who ven­tured into the camp found a thriving -albeit fringe ­culture that many may believe had died out with the passing of flair jeans. 
When The Void, a local South Bend band, set up its equipment and began playing a selection of rock 'n' roll classics, the camp became a real spectacle as many of the marchers gathered around to dance. The costume of the evening consisted mainly of tie­dyed shirts and worn jeans, leather sandals and long hair ­one marcher even wore his blond hair in dreadlocks. 
Some of the younger men swung little kids around in circles by their hands and feet while the rest of the crowd either danced, ate its salad din­ner or just watched. Having the band was a special event for the group, which usually doesn't have entertainment at campsites. 
To South Bend observers then, it might seem that the marchers do nothing but party. But for many, committing themselves to the march required a major upheaval in their lives. "I just graduated from college, so it's really easy for me," johnson said. 'But a lot of people had to give up good jobs and sell their houses. Some have even brought their entire families along.'' 
One marcher who relinquished her job for the march is Peggy Leggett, a waitress from southern 
Peace 
DISA 
Tbe ObMrYVIJIII•ry JKobr 
California who is making the march accompained by her 7-year-old son. Although Leggett has arranged to get her old job back at the end of the march, she is sacrificing nine months of salary for her commitment. "It's worth the trouble if we can educate even a few people about the tremendous dangers of nuclear weapons," Leggett said. 
Having her child along has not been much of an inconvenience, Leggett said. "I've had trouble (with my son) only because we're on the move so much. It's hard to keep a routine going. But overall he loves it here," she said. 
Although on their rest days most marchers don't do too much walking, many found time to tour the campus. "The cam­pus is wonderful," Legget said. "And you have those cafeterias. I don't really miss beds, but chairs -having a place to sit where there's no bugs or anything like that is great. 
Rollin and Martha Rothaar have three children and seven grandchildren. Despite their ages (Rollin is 71 and Martha is 69), the Rothaars are making the march for the sake of their grandchildren and all the young people in the world who are in­heiriting the problem of nuclear weapons. 
"We've been active in the beyond war movment . . . which is an education program that tries to press the idea that war is obsolete and that we have to find a better way to solve disputes between countries," Martha said. "We felt the Peace March was an important first step." 
For the Rothaars, however, the march is not all work and no play. After the South Bend stop they took a short vacation to visit their family in Indiana. The Rothaars are originally from the area, and Martha spent a day in Warsaw visiting the church were she graduated from high school. 
Visiting family is one simple privilege of life that the Rothaars -and all the marchers -are trying to preserve in an age they view as hanging in a delicate balance between life and destruction.



I · · •. \ ' ,. i . :.

The Observer 
---~------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I Pork BBQ.................... 69¢ or 1.65 Smoked Sausage.................. 1. 95 1iBeefBBQ....................69t or 1.65 Chicken Salad....................... 1.95 ! I Chicken BBQ..............69t or 1.65 Fish Filet ................................1.65 I 
LUNCH COMBINATION Served All Day Any BBQ sandwich or 4 Ribs or Chicken Breast . 
FAT'S 


I with choice of any two small side orders & small beverage 2. 95 
BARBEQUE I 

·~~~~= I ----DINNER COMBINATIONS-------i
&RT 23) I 

,,...., I 1/2 Chicken BBQ.......................~~~~~~~...................... 6. 95 
CUP "N SAllE COUPON 
I

soeorr I Slab Baby Back Ribs ........... !~~!!i!'."!.~~~-·-~ ...•............16.95 
ANY I 1/2Slab Baby Back Ribs ....... !!~.~!~~-~:~~:~!..................8.95I LUNCH I Tenderloin Tips ....................................................... 6.95 I~~=~~~~ I 1/iSiab Baby Back Ribs ....... !?.~!~~-~=~~~~! ...................6.95 
.,....,,,.,,.,.,.,,.,....,.~ All Dinner Combi1t ations Include Cornbread Muffins, French Fries and Choice of Two Side Orders. 
.,,,,,,,,............1 ______SIDE ORDERS--------....,
rI
FAT'S BARBEQUE I Cornbread Muffins 50cp 
~ ·=~~~~r? I Cole Slaw 50¢ or 95¢ ~:~~~~~~:s ~~: ~~ ~~: 
3 & RT 231 I Com on the Cob 75n
I , ......u.A.7 I "' Fruit Salad 50¢ or 95¢ 
I ·' ,...,.,., I French Fries 75¢
1 cuP "N sAllE couPON 5 Macaroni Salad 50¢ or 95cp 
3 ~ Potato Salad 50¢ or 95¢ 
SISOOFF I
1--------DESSERTS--------------~ 
I

o::i'ER I Peach, Apple, or Cherry Cobbler 1.55 I 
COMBINATION I I I 
GOOD rnRU 9-29-86 3 I
OPEN 7 DAYS 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. I 
I I 

~---------------~-----------~-----------------------------------------~---~-J 
+ ­


TRY OUR 
NEW 
MINI 
BAR-B-Q 

SANDWICHES 
ONLY 
69¢ 

I 
I I 
I 
I I I I I

at's I I I I 

1636 N.Ironwood (between Edison & Rt. 23) 277-0607 
-
ENTREES 
11'2 JESBQ C::hic:ltE!Il ..........................~~~~~~~ ..............4.75 · Ch• k 8 t BBQ (8ozBreast) 1 80 
tc: ell rE!il!i ............................................. . . k w· BBQ (10 Wings) 1 80 
Chtc:. ell tll!J!i ............................................. . Baby Back Ribs, Slab...................(~~!!~~~ ............. 13.95 Baby Back Ribs, 1/2 Slab.............f!.~~~~~~ ................6. 95 Baby Back Ribs, 1,4 Slab...............(?.~;~s!.................4. 95 Shrimp Basket..............................!~!.:~!.................5. 95 
. T• lj2Lb. NoBones 4 95
Tenderlo.tn tps...................................................... . All Of The Above Includes French Fries And Extra Sauce 
SANDWICHES 
I 
I I 

Thursday, August 2H, 19H6 page 12
The Observer 
· Sports Briefs 
Tickets are still on sale for Saturday's pre-season football game between the Chicago Bears and the Buffalo Bills at Notre Dame Stadium. The $18 tickets may be purchased at Gate 10 ofthe ACC. 
-The Observer 
The Notre Dame baseball team has scheduled an organizational meeting for those interested in trying out tonight at 7 in the ACC's football auditorium. Prospective players are asked to bring a pen or pencil. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team has slated a meeting Monday at 4 
p.m. in the ACC's football auditorium. Anyone interested in try­ing out should report to the meeting with a pen or pencil. -The Observer 

-
The Notre Dame varsity lacrosse team will hold a meeting Sunday at noon on Cartier Field for prospective players. Athletes are reminded to provide their own equipment. Further information may be obtained by contacting Head Coach Rich O'Leary at 239­
5108. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's field hockey team holds a meeting Mon-
The Notre Dame women's field hockey team holds a meeting today at 3:30p.m. and students interested in trying out should meet at Gate 5 of the ACC. Tryouts will be held from 3:30-6 p.m. until September 4. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus football team will hold a meeting on Green Field tomorrow at 4 p.m. Anyone interested in playing should bring pro­of of insurance. -The Observer 
Men's Interhall Football rosters must be submitted by September 3 with an accompanying fee of $40. Uniforms and equipment will be issued only after the rosters are in. Proof of insurance must also be provided. Further information may be obtained by contacting the NVA office at 239-5100.-The Observer 
Women's lnterhall Football rosters must be submitted to the NVA office by September 3 with the $35 entry fee. Team members must reside in the same hall and an insurance and consent form is re­quired. Contact NVA for more information. -The Observer 

Boilermaker quarterback situation is decided now 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­
Freshman quarterback Jeff George 
will start for Purdue in the Boiler­
makers' season opener Sept. 13 
against Ball Stare, Coach Leon 
Burtnett said yesterday. 

We felt we had to make the 
decision quickly so that Jeff could 
get the required number of turns 
with the No. I unit prior to the 
opener, Burtnett said. Not taking 
anything away from the other two 
but hcs the best ... outstanding: 
He can make the big plays for us.· 
George was rated the No. I 
high school player in the country 
last year after he led I nd ianapol is· 
Warren Cemral co the state 5A foot­
ball championship. 

He edged out fourth-year juniors Doug Downing and Jeff Huber, who already have played un­der the shadow of Jim Everett during their college careers. 
They took ir real well, Burtnett said of Downing and Huber. And both said they will continue to com­perc with Jeff for the starting job, as well as do everything they can to make this a better football team. 
George set national prep pass­ing records for completions and at­tempts in leading Warren to a .16-2 record over three years. For his career, he threw for 94 touchdown3 and more:: than H,OOO yards. 
Rivers 
continuedfrom page 1 
The driver said he would and lett the scene. The identity of the other driver has yet to be deter­mined. The Elkhart County Sheriffs office said yesterday that the case was still under investiga­tion. 
Barlow, who received minor lacerations and was treated and released the same morning, was able to go to a nearhy house and call for an amhulann· which responded to the st·enc approximately 20 minutes later. 
As far as J' m wncerncd, Ken Barlow avoided what could have been a major catastrophe," said Irish head basketball coach Digger Phelps. First, he managed to avoid what could have been a head-on col­lision. Second, he did what needed to be done to get help for David Rivers once the accident had taken place. He handled the situation, and that's all you can ask for when some­thing like that occurs.·· 
Rivers was taken to Elkhart General and was in surgery for three hours to remove gravel, dirt, grass and other debris from the wound. X-rays showed that there was no damage to vital organs. Gross' big­
gest fear  was  that infection would  
set in.  
Doctors  said  they  believe  

Rivers, will he able to play this season but not bcf(>re late Novem­ber. The problem ti>r Rivers, who averaged 16.7 points per game and handed our UH assists for the Irish last year, IS maintaining his eligibility. According to Notre Dame associate sports information dirccror John Heisler, Rivers has a number of options open to him. 

First, he could try and keep up while he's out of class and be able to play as soon as he was physically capable. 
Second, if he were unable to take classes, Rivers would be in­eligible to play basketball this se­mester. He would regain his eligibility as soon as this semester ended. 
Finally, in a worst-case scenario, if Rivers was unable to play this season, Heisler indicated that Rivers would be eligible to red­shirt. 
While Notre Dame athletes must take at least 12 credit hours to be able to play, Heisler said that there is a chance that Rivers could be given a waiver to take fewer class hours and still maintain eligibility. Tim Simon, a former Notre Dame football. player from 197.1-75, was granted such a waiver after suffering a severe eye injury. 
Acwrding to Heisler, Notre Dame academic advisor Mike DeCicco was to meet with Rivers and Phelps some time this week to discuss the situation. 
David is registered ti>r 15 hours this semester," said Phelps. We just have to wait and sec when the doc­tors give us permission to do anyth­ing with him in terms of academics. In some ways, it could be a blessing because he'll have plenty of rime ti>r his school work once he gets the 
OK." 

As tar as basketball, I'm nor concerned about that right now." 

The Observer 


Student Activities Newsletter August I September 1986 
Welcome to your home aw'y from home! We, in the Office of Student Activities, know'how thrilled you are to be in South Bend, Indiana!!! Well, you can enhance your stay by participating in some very exciting events. Start your year off right --a year which we hope will be academically successful as well as socially enjoyable. 
Whether you are jubilant or hesitant (or maybe a combina­tion of the two) about your return, you will find fun geared to your individual pleasures during our week of welcome. Individual class picnics, ice cream socials and trips to the Dunes are just a few ofthe events enticing you to parti­cipate. There will also be an opportunity to do some shopping at Stepan MaD to make your dorm less dreary. Come spend your moolah! 
There will be a first ever outdoor movie on campus. No cars invited!! Yes, the "Music King" returns to play again at the annual (campus-wide) "Dance Under the Stars" Beach Party, August 29 from 9:00-11:00 p.m. Just imagine 22 tons of sand on Stepan basketball courts. Add to that the sound and light extra­vaganza, refreshments, a WALLAH! Instant Beach party. all you need is a pair of sunglasses, a towel and your dancing thongs to enjoy this evening on Stepan Beach. 
Student Activities Night will be held at Stepan 
Center, September 2 from 7:00p.m. untillO:OO p.m. 
Clubs and organizations will provide information at their respective booths. This is an excellent time to learn about the different groups on campus to help 
you determine where your interests lie. 
For more than a decade, Gloria Stelnem has been the most persuasive spokesperson for the feminist movement in America. At the same time, she has built a reputation as a journalist of outstanding integ­rity. Her work has appeared in New York Magazine, 
•vhere she was a founding editor and the political columnist unti11971, and numerous other national publications, as well as many abroad. She currently writes regularly for MS. Considered to be one of the most influential women in the United States, she also travels as a speaker and feminist organizer. We in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community will be fortunate enough to hear her elaborate on issues concerning the humanity of all peoples on September 17 O'Laughlin Auditorium. Don't miss this opportunity to hear the "woman of our times." 
"The World's Greatest Mime." This is how Don Mcleod is billed. Mcleod was the famed American T ourister gorilla and is presently filming an episode oflV's "Amazing Stories" which will be aired in September. Don performs a closing piece entitled "The Creation," which portrays God's creation and Man's uncreation. In addition, he has agreed to create three of four topical pieces regarding social concerns. He will also do a piece called "Sophomoric" about a young college student who "Knows it all." He will appear in Washington Hall, 8:00p.m., September 18. Don't miss this unique performance. 
SBPTIMBBR CALENDAR 

2 Student Activities Hight-Stepan Center 7-10:00 pm SA 
AUGUST CALENDAR 

3 SMC Activities Night SMC SMC Movie-"Blues Brothers" Eng. Aud. 7,9:30,12 SAB 
Emil Burning SOPH
28 Stepan Mall Stepan Center 12:30-8 SAB Movie-"Blues Brothes" Eng. Aud. 7,9:30,12 SAB
Used Book Exchange Stepan Center 3-8:00 pill SAB Ice ere-Social South Quad 8:00 pm SOPH 
Movie-"Out ot Africa" Eng. Aud. 7,10 SAB
Ice Cream Social SMC 7-9:00 pa JR 

CSC Forum esc N.oon
Outdoor Movie Rockne Memorial 9-11:00 pm SAB Luau SMC SR 
6 SMC/ND Picnic SMC SOPH Movie-"Out ot Africa" Eng. Aud. 7. 10 SAB29 Movie-"Risky Business" Eng. Aud. 7. 9,11 SAB Dance Under the Stars Stepan Courts 9-11 pm SAB 7 Great America Trip SOPH
Band/Obstacle Course SR 

Spanish Mass 11:00 am
"Shed My Hair" South Quad 1:00 pm SG I 1-11 Placement Night 7-9:00 p111
30 Dunes Trip SOPH Dunes Trip JR Dunes Trip SR 10 
Movie-"Live & Let Di~" Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30 SAB
Shopping Trip FRESH 
esc Hospitality Lunch esc esc
Movie-"Risky Business" Eng. Aug. 7. 9.11 SAB 11 Movie-"Never Say Never" Eng. Aud. 7,9:1~,11:30 SAB31 Class Mass SOPH St. Joe's Beach Day 1-5:00 pm JR 12 Movie-"Goldfinger" Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30 SAB Class Mass Grotto 7:00 pm JR 13 Movie-"Goldtinger" Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30 SAB 

17 Gloria Steinem 0' Laughlin SAB 
18 Don McLeod (Mime) Wash. Hall 8:00pm SAB Movie-"The Terminator" Eng. Aud. 7,9,11 SAB 
19 Sox Night Game 
SOPH Movie-"Back to ..•Future" Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30 SAB 
20 Movie-"Back to ...Future" Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30 SAB 
21 So. Bend Rapids Trip SOPH 
2•-25 Movie-"All Pres. Men" Eng. Aud. 7. 9,11 SAB 
26 Movie-"Rebel Without Eng. Aud. 7,9,11 SAB A Cause" esc l'orua esc Noon esc 
27 Movte-"Rebel Without Eng. Aud. 7,9,11 SAB A Cause" 
28 Class Mass 
SOPH 

30 Lecture-Spasowski SAB Movie-"Trading Places" Eng. Aud. 7,9:15,11:30 SAB 


~~----------~ --~ 
Thursday, August 2H, 19H6 page J;j
The Observer 

:::::-­

will be distributed at Stepan Mall August TODA'I' 
********* 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:~:::~:~:::::~=~~:!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::;::::::::::::::::::~~:· 
Cla$S of'87 
o~~'i:J 
Ice Cream Social with 


liCE CREAM 
Iwher~h~:r~~~~;~:;~:::~ssey ·•••• 
~: ::;:::;.;::~:·:~:·:~:~:~:,:~:::::~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::,::;:::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· 


Stefano Mel (441), Alberto Con (419), and Salvatore Andbo (419), Ill from ltaly,lead tbe pack ID tbe men's10,000 meter event, Tuesday at the Track and Fleld European Champloashlps. Melsurprislaaly woa tile nee, Cova placed secoad and Andbo came ID third. More oa tile meet below. 
Christie wins first gold for U.K. in track meet 
Associated Press  Detlef Michel of East Germany  
was  second  at  26H-H  and  Vikror  
STUTTGART, West Germany­ Yevsyukov of the Sovicr Union third  
Lintlml  Christie,  a  26-year-old  at 26H-·i.  
youth  worker  from Jamaica,  won  Pribilinec  edged  Maurizio  
the  men's  I00-meter dash  yester­ Damilano of Italy by two seconds.  
day, giving  Britain  irs  first  gold  Miguel  Prieto  of  Spain  finished  
medal  in the European Track and  . third in  I :21:')6.  

Fit:ld Championships. Christie overcame a slow starr in scoring an impressive vicrory in 
10. 15 seconds. Steffen Bringmann 
of  East  Germany  was  second  in  
10.20  and  Bruno  Marie-Rose  of  
France third in  10.21.  

East Germany's Marlies Gohr won the women's 100-meter tirk in I 0. 9 I, for the first of two East 
..German golds on the day. 
Gohr marched the fastest rime of the year which Evelyn Ashtim! of rhe United Stares and East German Heih Drechskr had set at Moscow in July. 
Ant:lia Nunewa of Bulgaria was a surprising second in I l.!J.i and Nelli Cooman of The Netherlands third in ll.OH. 
Drechsler, the world record holder in the women's long jump, gave the East Germans their second gold, leaping 2.1 ti:et, lOY, inches. Drechskr is expected w win rhn:c golds during the championships, adding the 200 and the womm's iOO-merer relay ro the long jump. 
Gal ina Chisryakova of the Soviet Union was second at 2~~--~ 1/, and Helga Radtke of East Germany third at 22-7. 
The other gokfs on the second day of wmpetition wenr ro Klaus Tati:lmeier of West Germany in the men's javelin at 27H-I and Jozd Pribilinec of c~echoslovakia in the men's 20-kilometer walk in I :21:15. 
Taklmeier set a European best with a new javelin, approved this season. His mark was second in the world only ro the 2HO-I by Tom Perranotf of the United Stares. 
CARPET REMNANT SALE 
10% OFF 
EVERY CARPET REMNANT IN STOCK 
Over 500 Remnants To Choose From 
With 10" Off •••Examples 

s49.00 
S69.00 

Prior Soles Excluded Sole Ends 9-7-86 
S99.00 

On Ironwood Just South of Lincolnwoy 

MON. 8:30·8:30
OUR 32nd YEAR 
TUES. 8:30-6100 WEDS. 8:30-6:00 THURS• .3:30-8:30 FRI. 8:30-8:30

FLOOR CENTER 
SAT. 8:30-5:30 402 SOUTH IRONWOOD, MISHAWAKA SUN. 1:00-5:30 PHONE: 259-5638 CLOSED SUKIAYI JIIIIE.JULY·liiiUST 
, CIIIP£T • VIIIYl ~ •:a • CEIIAM:C • WO"': a a•n IIUCS 
INTRODUCTORY WELCOME BACK SPECIAL 
20%0FF~~~E 
with this ad only 
BOOTH AND BEDS 
LOCATED AT THE
OPEN 7 DAYS 
UJUVERSin COMMONS

COUPON EXPIRES 
ST. RD. 23

SEPTEMBER 4, 1986 
272-7653 

-------------------------------------------------------~ 


KALAMAZOO 5747 S-Westnedge Ave
~ ~ ,,3o to • 5505 GRAPE ROAD 343-9170
CREDIT TEAMS AVAILABLE :-:;:,:A.: I 277·5900 ......_____ AMERICA'S LARGEST CARPET RETAILER .•. OVER BO OUTLETS ______. 
Apple® has two ways to putyou ahead You'll also qualify to win aTrek® ofthe competition. And keep you there. 12-speed touring bike. And you'll walk 
Just take part in afive minute away with afree bicycle cap. 
demonstration of the Macintosh"' per-Macintosh and aTrek bike. 
sonal computer. Both will do more than help you 
You'll see how Macintosh can get ahead. Both will take you .'­help you work better, faster and smarter. anywhere you want to go. ® 
Enter August 20-October 3 Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25-Computing Center I Math Building 
0//'t!r restnctimtstmd deltlll,· '"''tll'tlllalile a/your miaRolllfllller center Htcrde ca{>s tll'lliltllile trbi/e supfill•lt~~ls. Trek" is atmtlemark ofTrek H"yde
Oirt, lfJ i'.ili6:lpfl/e !.ii!IJ/IIIM'/11,·. :l{l{lle and the:lppleln~o aro• r£')(/Siered /r~ll./emarh nf.-lf'i'le !.illll{>lllt'r.lnc. .1/acmtosb is t1 tr/lllemtlrko{llc/nlt<''b 
/,tlhora/n : lilt. tllltl!s hem •ust'tl ttitb tb·£~\ lt"fJ.'iS ·t>rnusstnl! 
Please AMERICAN 
CANCER
support 
SOCIETY® 

laundryAND DRY CLEANING CHANGE HOURS St. Michaels Laundry and Dry Cleaning departments 
hove increased their business hours for the 1986-87 ",......v~,....,­yeor. Beginning Monday. 25 August 1986, the Office 
(Door 1 ). student bundle pick-up (Door 3). and the dry cleaning facility (Door 6) will be open from 7:30A.M. to 4:30P.M. Monday through Friday. 
~ 

f~)enanigans 
I' 

There will be an 
informational meeting 
tonight for those 
interested in auditioning 
for Notre Dame's singing 
and dancing ensemble. 
Both men and women are 
needed as performers and 
mus1c1ans. 

Lee•sRibs 
The Official Bears' Party Headquarters 
Special Hours: Friday 4-3:00am­Saturday 11-3:00am 
1132 South Bend Ave. 232-9311 



· ThursJay, August 2H, 19H6 page 16
The Observer 
Student football ticket distribution Monday 
Special to The Observer 
Once again, it's time for everyone to practice stanJing in line as stuclent football ticket sales begin MonJay. 
Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their application, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC on the day specified for your class. Tickets will not be distributed at Gate 3 as was originally printed on student applications. 
A limit of four applications may be presented together per student, provided that the individual presenting the applications has all four ID cards. Married students wishing to purchase a ticket for their spouse must show proof of marriage. The ticket for the spouse will be the same price as a regular student ticket. 
Student football ticket applications have been sent out to all students with a campus or local address. Any student who has not yet received his or her application, or whose preprinted application contains an error in class status, should go to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC on a Jay prior to the one designated for his or her class. 
l11C schedule for ticket distribution is as follows: 
Seniors:  Monday, Sept.  1  1:30 p.m.  -8 p.m.  
Juniors: SophS'Grad1.aw: Freshmen:  Tuesday, Sept. 2 Wednesday, Sept. 3 Thursday, Sept. 4  1:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m. 1:30 p.m.  -8 p.m. -8 p.m. -8 p.m.  

Zealous Becker defeats Canadian, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 
Associated Press 


~....... strom 6-l, 6-l, 6-l, with a hlp velocity serve. the rest of the action Is detalle below. 
ploashlps yesterday, defeatiDa Sweden's Hearlk Sand-
so I'm ready next fall." Until then, Foley and his two
NCAA 

classmates keep their scholarships continued/rom page 20 bur arc nm allowed at team prac­I sec these guys coming home from tices, film sessions or any mhcr team practice tired and I wonder how they activities. And while the football make it through their classes. I'm and basketball teams will certainly going to study hard and get smarter miss their services, you won't get any arguments from Notre Dame coaches about the importance of acaJemics at the college level. 
" They're fine young men and very intelligent," explained Holtz. lin sure theyll vindicate themselves in the classroom." 
NEW YORK -W imbledon .fll!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.... 

champion Boris Becker brushed back a surprisingly strong challenge from Canada's Glenn Michibata on yesterJay in advancing into the second round of the U.S. Open Ten­nis Championships. 
Unlike Tuesday's opening day, when four-time champion John McEnroe was ousted, there were no major upsets in yesterday's early matches. 
Also posting first-round vic­tories in the men's singles on the hard courts at the National Tennis Center were second-seeded Mats 
.... 
Wilander, No. 4 Stefan Edberg and No. II Mikacl Pernfors, all from Sweden. 
In women's singles, advancing into the second round in early matches were second-seeded Chris Evert Lloyd, a six-time U.S. Open champion; No. ."\ Steffi GrafofWest Germany, No. 5 Pam Shriver; No. 7 Helena Sukova of Czechoslovakia and No. 13 Stephanie Rehe. ' 
Playing under leaden skies with a threat of rain, Becker, the lH­year-oiJ West German redhead, defeated Michibata 6-2, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2 as the Canadian Davis Cup­player put up a courageous battle on the Stadium Court. But Becker had just too many weapons, cspe­
. cially his bi& serve. 
Becke~ broke Michibata, <1J former Peppcrdine University stu­dent, in the third game of the opening set, then broke him again in the seventh game. Both times, Michibata had battled to deuce on his own serve. 
But the Canadian right-hander, ranked 96th in the world, found the passing lanes in the second set as the two traded groundstrokes from the baseline. 
Michibata earned the first ser­vice break in the seconJ set, in the eighth game. Be~ker broke right back, but Michibata, le~ding 6-5, closed out the set: when he broke Becker's service at love. 
Although Betker controlled the match after that, he had to fight 
·hard for every point. For example, in the final ~~t, Becker launched himself to his left, lt~k_ipg .for the airborne backhand volley that has become his trademark. But this time, Michibata's forehand passing shot down the line glanced off the end of Becker's racket. 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS 
TO 
Prices good thru 
9-i -86 


No charge cards allowed on sale items 
BUD KEGS 1/2Barrel $29.99 (at South Bend Ave. store only) 
111tre (limit 2) 

COOL 'N RELAXIN . 99c •. 

; · limit two : 3.99 
4.0 litre limit 2 



7.49 1.7511tre 

-~~--------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

The most exciting
fewhours 

yotillspendallweek. 
Run. Climb. Rappel. Navigate. Lead. And develop the confidence and skills you won't get from a textbook. Enroll in Army ROTC as one of your electives. Get the facts today. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 

Interested? Lieutenant McKnight 
or
Coli Lieutenant Flannigan 239-6264 
ARMY 


TlmrsJay, August 2~, l9H6 j1agc 17 
Rockne Memorial 
Schedule 
Falll986 until fall break and Spring break until May 1987 
w 
Building open for activities: ~ Mon.-Fri. 7AM to llPM
I 
Sat., Sun. lOAM to IIPM 


Recreation Swimming: 
Mon.-Fri. 7:15-9:00AM, 12:00-3:30, 5:30-ll:OOPM 
Saturday Noon -6:00PM, 
7:00 -ll:OOPM Sunday I :00-6:00, 7:30-II :00 PM 


Fr. Lange Weight Room (upstairs) Mon. -Fri. 3:00-!O:OOPM Sat., Sun. Noon -6:00PM 
Family Hours: Immediate members of students, faculty, and staff: Sun2-5PM 
[@IoD--~. ) A v.Ud I.D. Card must be presented 
for use of the Rockne Memorial. 
For further information call239-6321 

Queen's Castle 
.~.......----.. &The Knights $6student $8.50 
cut style 
AWAY.FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Ceater See a tan in minute• ...Not Hour•

•••;;••S.t.. (behind Subway Sandwiches) 


Carpet your dorm room with thick, beaatifal 
Directions: 

carpet, bat not empty your pocketbook! 
•NO ..., Sizes from 6x9, 12x7, 12x8, 12x9, 12x12, 
:::J

-----·0Edison ~ McKinley 12x13,12x14,12x15,12x16,12xl8,andap. 
--.... o 
Mishawaka a.* Open Daily 10-6 Bring Your Measurements 
1----....----VISA and MasterCard accepted 234·5148
Sat10-5 



ne .,.ud IMd of Olltftelder Fred LJIUl w•aot •o.P to ltop Seattle .. tile Mulaen beat tile Ortolel 4-1 last ...... I.Pllelptldt • twCHU lloaer ad Mike 1'nljlllo worked 5 ....... Ia nllef to llaad Mlb ..._ dldls(14-l)tlle .... 
Attention Observer Sports Staff 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all veteran writers tonight at 7:30 in the new offices. Ifyou cannot attend call Dennis Corrigan at 239-7471 
Show NO or SMC student or staff ID and get a 10% discount 
180e1 State Road 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837 .(219) 277 ·2870 




ThursJay, Augt~st 2~,' 1986 page lH 
Stone scores as Phils beat Dodgers-
AssociateJ Press 

PhUs l, Dodgen 1 
LOS ANGELES -Jeff Stone scoreJ from scconJ base in a colli­sion at home plate on Von Hayes' two-out single· in the ninth inning as the PhilaJclphia Phillics beat the Los Angeles DoJgers 2-1 yestcrJay. 
Rookie lcft-hanJcr Bruce Ruf-· fin, 7-.'\, allowcJ five hits over eight innings for his fourth consecutive victory. Steve Bedrosian pitched the ninth inning to earn his 19th save. 
Stone, who reached first on a 
one-out fielding, cm)r by Dodger 
shortstop Dave . Anderson, stole 
second on a .'\-0 pitch to Milt 
Thompson, who eventually ,struck 
out. Hayes then lined. a single to 
left ficiJ and Stone scor.cd when he 
knocked the throw from outfielder 
Bill Russell out of catcher Alex 
Trevino's glove. 
Los Angeles starter Bob Welch, 
6-10, allowed nine hits while. 
walking three and striking out 10. 
Cards 1, Braves 1 
ST. LOUIS -Rick Mahler 
walked Terry Pendleton with the 
bases loaded in the eighth inning 
.last night ro force in the run that 
gave the St.' Louis Cardinals a 2-1 
victory over the Adimta Braves. 
Yince Coleman singleJ to lead 
off and took second on a wild pitch. 
Mahler, 11.-14, who has lost nine 
of lO dc~isions siqcc June .'\0, in­
tentionally walked Willie McGee, 
Tom Herr grounded out and Andy 
Van Slyke was intentionally walked. 
to load the bases. Mahler walked 
Pendleton on a 3-2 pitch. 
ToJJ Worrell, H-9, got the final seven oms in relief of John TuJor, who left with a stiff left shou!Jer. TuJor alloweJ eight hits, walkeJ four anJ struck out four. 
Blue Jays 3, Indians l 
CLEVELAND -Ernie Whitt's 
leaJoff home run in the 12th inning 
gave the Toronto Blue Jays a :'\-2 
victory over the ClevelanJ InJians 
in the first game of a JoubleheaJcr 
last night. 
Whitt hit the homer on a 2-2 
pitch from Bryon Oelkers, giving 
the victory to Mark Eichhorn. Eich­
horn, 11-4, alloweJ only one hit, 
striking out three anJ walking one 
in 4 2-.'\ innings. Tom Henke 
finisheJ up for his IHth save. 
Oelkers, 2-.'\, gave up the one 
run on three hits in three innings. 
Reds 9, Pintes 5 
PITTSBURGH -Eric Davis hit the first grand slam of his major league career .with ·two· outs in the ninth inning ro break a 5-5 tic and give Cincinnati a 9-5 victory Mon­day night over the Pittsburgh Pirates. It was the Reds' fifth straight win and ninth in 10 games. 
Don Robinson, 2-.'\, opened the ninth by allowing a single to Ron Oester and walking pinch hitter Max Venable. After Cal Danicls sacrificed, Buddy Bell walked to load the bases. Dave Parker struck out and Davis followed by hitting Robinson's first pitch deep into left­ficld scats for his 22nd home run. 
Rob Murphy, 2-0, pitched three shurout innings of two-hit relief. 

BAPTIST Student Union 
Bible Study ­
Join Us! 
A 
COTH 375 Rehearsal and Performance 
a one act play by Anhur Kopit · September 1 & 2 7:30-10:30 pm Little Theatre -Saint Mary's College 
White Sox 3, K.C. 1 

CHICAGO -Ron Karkovice, playing in only his ninth game in the majors, hit a three-run home run to power FloyJ Bannister anJ the Chi<·ago White Sox to a 3-I victory last night over the Kansas City Royals. 
Bannister, H-10, allowcJ six hits in working his fourth complete game anJ helping the White Sox snap a five-game losing streak. Ban­niswr struck out five. Danny Jack­son, 9-9, was the loser. 
Karkovicc's seconJ-inning blast was his first in the major leagues after hitting 20 this season with Class AA birmingham. Russ Mor­man anJ Ozzie Guillen haJ singleJ t(l start the inning. 
Giants 3, Expos l 

SAN FRANCISCO -Robby Thompson raced home with the winning run on Andy McGaffigan's seco~d wild pitch in the eighth in­ning yesterday, lcaJing the San Francisco Giants to a .'\-2 victory over the Montreal ~xpos . 
Pinch-hitter Dan Gladden 
opened the eighth with a walk and 
one-out later scored on Thompson's 
single to tic the score 2-2 . 

Thompson reached second on Will Clark's ground out to shortstop, wenr ro third on McGaf­figan's first wild pitch and scored on the second wild pitch as Candy Maldonado was walked. 
Kelly Downs, 1-4, pitched a five-hitter over eight innings for his first major-league victory. Scott Garrclts pitched the final inning for his sixth save. 
McGaffigan is now 8-5. 

Welcome Baptist Students 

Fellowship -Fun 
* Monday, September 8, 1986*·Time: 7p.m. 
* At the Bulla House 

****************************** 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

Chamber Music 

directed by Roberta N. Rude For scripts and additional information call the CoTh office 284-4640 
COTH 243 Dance Repertory /Performance Workshop 
Prof. Dieckgrafe  
September 1 & 2 7:00 -9:00 pm  For more information call the dane  
Regina Hall Dance Studio  office 284-4643 -107 Moreau  
Saint Mary's College  Saint Mary's College  

****************************** 
1roday________________~~~~llll"i.ll~.i\11~-·u,l.'-s.J'IS~'I•i•·'~~<i'l 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Wat.l flOW 
(Q) 0
llK€N'T W/3 Olll 
&Kf/MPY 15 116 WilY-. fl!NKL&Y." 
oQ 
\ I 
0 

"Stimulus, response! Stimulus, response! Don't you ever think?" 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Roster 5 Variety 
How to start 
9 Sail supports 14 Heraldic band 15 Location 16 Oahu greeting

your law career 
17 Unassisted 19 More pleasant 20 Main course 21 Exposed

6efore you start 
23 Apportions 
25 Employs 
26 Apprentice 
29 Wonder 32 Home of the Buccaneers 
law sChool. 

Start with the Kaplan LSAT prep course. 
36 Iowa college town

After taking Kaplan, thousands of LSAT 
37 Influence 
38 Along a cer­tain line 

students score over 40. That's the top 10% 
nationwide! And candidates who score 
39 Puppy bite 40 Garden tool 

over 40 on the new LSAT e11ioy the best 
41 Annoying one 
42 Pound of poetry

chance of being accepted to the law school 
of their choice and going on to practice 
43 Presidential name

with top law firms or corporations. 
44 Conco•·de 

45 Actress Louise 7 Interpret Today's Solution 47 Meadows 8 Cassette 
So call any of our 120 centers for 
information and class starting dates. The 
50 Signs filler 54 Abroad 9 Hand in
Kaplan LSAT prep course could be the 
58 Ordains anatomy 
60 Pretend 10 Dress shape 61 Algonquian 11 Sets aside 
one pre-law course that determines the 
course of your law career. 
Indian 12 "Of -I Sing'1 63 Electronic 13 Chalcedony 
device 18 Continued 64 A Starr story 65 Cinders of 22 Small rolls 
the comics 24 Poem division 66 Nasty look 27 Arabian
I ~ KAPLAN 

67 Basics princes 
STANLEY H. KAPlAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. 

68 Prophet 28 Banquet . 30 Walk through 
DON'T COMPETE WITH 

DOWN water 
1 Place for an 31 Argus had 100 earring 32 Bugle call 2•Golf bag 33 Chopping tools 46 Builds 54 Name in autos items 34 Kisser's sprig 48 Disintegrate 55 Blood vessel 
A KAPLAN STUDENT-BE ONE 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. 

3 Laziness 35 One way to 49 Ed of "Lou 56 Swedish rock 
4 Tropical fish stand Grant" group
South Bend, IN 46637 

5 Glossy fabric 37 Resort 51 Bistros 57 Thick slice 
Phone 219/272-4135 

6 Bobby of 40 Contracted 52 School in Lyon 59 Heavenly body hockey 42 Otherwise 53 Pilfered 62 Rainbow 


.. 
S~orts 
Proposition 48 affects incoming Irish athletes 
By MARTY STRASEN Namely, a year of junior college or Assisr.mr Sports Editor rhc giving up of one semester in order ro re-take rhe rests. 
In an t:ftiJrr ro make college At Notre Dame, neither of ltliJthall players students bdi>re ath­those routes is encouraged. k-res, the NCAA pur into efti:cr "Our people urged the student$ 
Proposition -lH on Aug. I. to accept rhe year of incligibiliry:' 
Now, less than a month later. said John Heisler, associate sports the consequences of the new legis­int()[[narion director~' Re-taking rhc l<ition. are becoming evident rests is a risk -there are no guaran­through two varsity reams and three tees. If they donr p<lss the rests the 

freshmm at the University of Notre next rime, rheyrc that much more 
D,une. behind by the rime they get here." 

Irish tix>tball players Tony Rice So ti>r now, d1c highly-toured and John Foley, as well as Keith quarterback (Rice) inside Robinson of the Notre Dame bas­linebacker (foley) and ti>rward 
ketball ream, have been dedared in­(Robinson) sir in the dassroom in­eligible to participate in varsity ath­stead of the J,JCker room. And wirh letics until August of I\.>H7, because rhe initial shock now somewhat of their failure ro achieve minimum dulled by rime, they arc becoming 
scores on the SAT and ACT stan­more appreciarive of that int~umms 
dardized rests. 
proposrtron. 

"During recruiting we looked at " I wasn't really down about it academic standing, grades and or anything,' the 6-\.1 Robinson said. The Notre Dame football team continues to plow tbe lead of Byron Spruell (73) and Andy H~k (88) course load, and we thought they 'Irs good to make the commitment tbrougb its preparation for tbe season opener against against outside linebacker Ricb Morrison (40). Stu­would do wdf on the rest," sarJ to academics first. Next year I think Michigan on Sept. 14. Fullback Pernell Taylor follows dent bome ticket information appears on page 16. 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Ill be well-situated academically Holtz." Some people dotH rest well, and I shouldn't have much trouble and they didrH do as well as we had stepping in. 
Rolfs Aquatic Center is shut down 
projecred. Meanwhile, fll be purring on Consequently. we think irs best some wt·ighr and trying to keep in tiJr them ro work on their education shape." 
because of construction problems
tlrsr. Unlike Robinson, however, 
At this point, there is I irrlc Foley was initially outraged at the By ANDREA LAFRENIERE "After toda~·s !lll"l"ting I hope 10 tkxibilit}', allow Stark and his staff choice in the m;ttter." 
idea of sitting out a season. S.,illr ~t.1rr\ Spurr~ h.liwr projcn ,1 day when we can re-open 1<1 divide the pool into tllll". rwo or The new proposition requires "I considered raking the ACT 
the l;tcility.· Stark said. r hree sn r ions. prospective freshman varsity ath­(in September or October) and rhm Problems stemming from errors 
Stark and his sr;lf{ dere< ted er­Ffot,uion cwnp.trrnwnts within letes ro earn a combined score of playing spring ball, he said. It both­111 last t;tll"s wnstru<tion of the rors in the pool" s l onst rU< t ion these lw.tds den·lopnl.t leak ..tll"IJr­700 on the SAT or 15 on the ACT, 
ered me at tlrst and I was pretty Rolfs Aquati< Center have ti>rcnl shortly after the Center was dedi­ding ro !'-.t.trk, .md qLmklr filled with slight variations made for high mad, but I care about my degree. the t;Kility to temporarily dose. with watlT.
cated on Nov. 1'>. 

school students with exceptionally lve wamed to come to Notre Dame 
The dosing. which wok place 
"\X'e rmticnl at the very hq.:in­This lllmplil<Hion. in addition high or exceptionally low grade­since the second gradt·, and Im here on July 20, is only temporary. ac­ning th;ll thne wer!" prohkrns w11h ro rolkr hc.trings tl!l rhc hulk he.tds point averages. t(Jr an education tlrst. 
lOnling to Dirt·ttor of Aquatits r he starring blocks." Sr;lrk s.ud. whi, h suddmlr lod.nl. ,,tusnl I never even considered junior Dennis Stark, who hopes to reopen Othn problems wirh thl· lll!lsrrm­gre.tl diffi,uftr in nw\·ing the There are other options, college. l decided Id come lwre this rhe pool in the near future. 
t ion of the movable bulkheads equipment.however, for students who arc un­filii and meet the people Ill be 
Stark meets today with a rep­developed throughout the season. Till" wmpany <ould not begin able to achieve those scores prior to dealing with. It's better this way. 
resenrariw of Paddock Pool, the working on the problems unrii.Julythe tall semester and do nor want 
company responsible for tht· con­The movablehulk hl·<t<b. two 21. hct.tUSl" \\T were tontinu.tlly co sacritlce rlu: year of eligibility. see NCAA, paae16 struCtion probkrns. pinTs of equipnwnr designed tl•r using rhe pool. Sr.trk said. 
_...,.....~··-----------------------------------------------------. 
Fifth-ranked Alabama defeats Ohio State, 16-10 
Associated Press Thomas. Bur rwo Alabama defenders George Coopt·r, the Buckeyes· ful­Stadium -about H, 'iOO short of capacity double-teamed Ohio State ace receiver lbat-k, fumbled at the Alabama 9-yard to sec the second rnecr i ng t"\Tf hcrwcen EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. -Cris Caner in the end zone and a fasr-gasp fine with five minute.s left in the third rwo of the 11inningcst schoob in mlk·~e 
Mike Siuda, stymied for most of the game 17-yard pass from Jim Karsatos was in­period and ()'Morrow was short on a tiJothall history. by Ohio Stare's ddl:nse, Hipped a tllfee­complete. 27-yard field goal attempt r r seconds For rhrce periods they witnessed rhe yard wuchdown pass to Albert Bell wirh The winning 7S-yard drive, which into the final quarter. expeUcd ddi:nsive game, with both of· 
9: B remainin~ w give tlfrh-rankcd Al­wok 12 plays, arc up 5:16 on the dock Van Titfin provided Alabama's final fi:nscs struggling. abama a 16-10 victory over the No. 9 and pur Alabama ahead 15-I 0, came after margin with his third fil"ld goal, a 2H­Bur Siuda took rhe Crimson Tide Bu<kcye~ in the tiJttrth annual Kickoff Ohio State blew several opportunities to }'arder with I :02 remaining. Tiffin also on two long drives in the tlrwl quarter Classic last ntght. increase a I0-6 lead rt had built on flanker wnnetted from _)H yards in the first per­that kept rhc hall .tway from Ohio State, 
Ohio State had two chances w win Jamie Holland's 26-yard touchdown run iod and .j j in the second quarter rn give whith had pmscssion t(Jr only tintr scrim­the game afn•r time expired thanks to midway through the second period and the Crimson Tide a r1-0 lead. mage phtys, a punt and a missed field conserurivt· pass interference penaltit·s freshman Pat O'Morrow's '\7-yard field The opening game of the season goal try in the tlrst I I minures of the against Alabama linebacker Derrick goal halt\vay rhrough the third quarter. attraned a crowd of 6H,21X1 to Giants final period. 








