
Pro football at ND -page 12 

VOL. XXI, NO. 3 FRIDAY, AUGUST 29, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma~·'s 

Judge sentences convicted spy to 365 years tn prtson 
Blind 
ND student robbed 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Ediwr 
Notre Dame Security was con­tinuing its search yesterday for five men who allegedly robbed a blind Notre bame student early Wednesday morning, said Direc­tor of Security Rex Rakow. 
The student, who is legally blind, was robbed as he was walking around St. Joseph's Lake at approximately l a.m., Rakow said. He was accompanied by a female Notre Dame student at the time. 
No weapon was involved in the crime and neither student was injured, Rakow said. 
As of yesterday afternoon, Se­
curity had not arrested anyone 
in connection with the robbery, 
said Rakow. 
No one from the Notre Dame 
community is suspected in the 
crime, he added. 
Rakow said the Notre Dame 
students were walking just north 
of the boathouse when they were 
approached by the five men. 
As the two groups passed, 
they bumped into each other, he 
said. After exchanging some 
words with the students, the five 
men began harassing the couple. 
The five then demanded that 
the male student surrender his 
wallet. The student complied, 
and one of the men took the 
money out of the wallet. 
The man dropped the wallet 
before the five fled, Rakow said. 
Nothing was taken from the 
female student. 
There were no other witnesses 
to the robbery, said Rakow. 
Descriptions of the men are 
sketchy, he said. However, the 
man who took the money was 
described as being IH years old, 
6 feet, 2 inches tall, of medium 
build and with shoulder-length 
brown hair. He was wearing blue 
jeans and a red flannel shirt. 
'ft;J;:t~~: ..... ''~"_0.:;!¥,'-·•"'W.!li 
Pavtng the walk 
Concrete workers arc shown here laying the sidewalks around the War Memorial in recent work aimed at completing the fountain by the end of next week. 



Education to be goal 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI than just the military and nuclear Assistant News Etliwr questions, although they are the most prominant, he said. Gil­
Educating the student body ligan said the institute's goal is and the public about the reality to educate students and the of conditions in the world today public about these issues and not will be the goal of the new In­necessarily influence govern­stitute for International Peace at ment decisions. But he· said it Notre Dame, according to law would be great if governmental professor and institute director decisions were indirectly af­John Gilligan. fected. 
There are all sorts of violence Gilligan also said the institute 
military, economic and social -­will explore the relationship be­
being done to people in the world tween human rights, justice and 
today, said Gilligan. Its broader peace. If people are being 

Zoning board decision on Corby's delayed 
The Board of Appeals became Copy Editor aware that not all the residents living near Corby Tavern were 
Corby Tavern's fate was surveyed when Leroy Graves, postponed yesterday for yet an­owner of Schiltz and Associates, other month as the Board of said he had r<.><:eived no notice Zoning Appeals awaits the ap­or survey from any of these proval of residents living nearby buyers and sellers. the bar. Thomas Przybylinski, one of 
The board will survey resi­the prospectve owners ofthe bar, dents living within a 300-foot acknowledged that those resi­radius of Corby Tavern, located dents who owned a partial at I026 Corby Blvd. amount of land within the 300­
'"If there is any problems with foot radius with less than 50 per­the surrounding neighbors, I cent of their land lying therein want the appeal to be denied,• were not surveyed. said David Ruse, administrative The board decided that John assistant for neighborhoods. Gourley, the lawyer of the 
Two brothers, Thomas and prospective owners, now has the Robert Przybylinski, are trying burden to petition the residents to set up a restaurant-tavern within this 300-foot radius. After business at the building. he does this, the board will 
Because a city ordinance dic­decide whether to grant the var­tates no more than two alcohol­iance. serving establishments may oper­During the meeting, a few ate within 1,000 feet of one residents voiced their disap­another, the brothers need a var­proval of the tavern's reopening. iance to open the tavern. ·· Three bars is enough:' four is 
Currently, The Commons and a de facto of a nuisance, said a Bridget McGuire's Filling Station statement written by William operate where Corby Blvd., O'Rourke. South Bend Avenue and Eddy Others supported the pro­Street intersect. posed tavern. 
Corby Tavern has been closed 
By MARILYN BENCHIK 
see Corby's page 4 since April 1985. 

of Peace institute 
deprived of justice, there is British, French, and Japanese 
bound to be violence, he said. students to Notre Dame for a 
The institute is being funded year as Peace Fellows. by a six million dollar grant given Currently, the institute has to the University last December moved· into offices in the new by Joan Kroc, widow of wing of the Law School building McDonalds restaurant founder and an undergraduate program and San Diego Padres owner Ray in peace studies is being Kroc. developed, said Gilligan. 
Tentative plans for the in­
stitute call for undergraduate The program cannot be in­and graduate peace programs, stalled, however, until approved guest lectures and conferences by by the institute's advisory board, 
eminant scholars as well as proj­
Sl'C PEACE 5 page

ects to bring Russian, Chinese, 
SAN FRANCISCO -Jerry Whitworth was sentenced to 365 years in prison and fined $410,000 yesterday by a judge who said his role in selling Navy communications secrets to the Soviet Union made him one of the most spectacular spies of this century. 
l just want to say lm ·very, very sorry,' was the only com­ment from the 47-year-old former Navy radioman as heap­peared before U.S. District Judge John Vukasin. 
Convicted on seven counts of espionage as part of the Walker fami~ spy ring, Whitworth must serve at least 60 years before he will be eligible for parole. 
Vukasin had the Qption of sentencing Whitworth to the maximum term oflife in prison or following a prosecution re­commendation of imposing a lengthy period of years that would delay ' his parole eligibility. 
The government called him 
the central figure in the most 
damaging spy ring in U.S. mil­
itary history, and Vukasin said 
he had given the Soviet Union 
the very blueprint t>f our most 
coveted and guarded commu­
nications. 
Whitworth, of Davis, Calif., 
was convicted July 24 of selling to the Walkers the secrets of Navy decoding equipment, code keys and communications 
systems he gathered and photographed for nearly a de­cade as a trusted radio operator at ship and shore stations. 
He also was convicted of tax evasion on the $332,000 that he was paid by John Walker Jr., his longtime friend, former fel­low radio instructor and confessed leader ofthe spy ring. 
Walker was to have been senten<.·ed yesterday in Bal­timore to two life terms under a plea-bargain, with parole pos­sible in lO years. But sentenc­ing has been delayed until Oct. 3 at the prosecution's request. 
Whitworth;s lawyer, James Larson, filed papers with Vukasin on Tuesday urging a sentence no harsher than Walker's. Larson said Walker was unquestionably . . . more culpable than Whitworth. 
Larson said Whitworth was racked with guilt and remorse and had undergone three days of debriefing by government agencies since his conviction and was prepared for more. 
But Assistant U.S. Attorney William Farmer said in court papers that Whitworth, even on the eve of sentencing, after being convicted following a protracted public trial that detailed his treachery, . . . will not, or cannot, own up to his responsibility. 
Walker pleaded guilty last October in Baltimore and agreed to testify against Whit­worth in exchange for a reduced sentence for Walker's son, Michael, who also pleaded guilty. Walker's brother Arthur was convicted of spying by a federal judge and sentenced to life 


Friday, August 29, I<JH6 -page 2 

i 


In Brief 
A new rector and three rectresses have been named for the I <)86-H7 schm1l year by the Office of Student Affairs. New residence hall heads are Judy Hutchinson of Breen­Phillips, Christine Mengucci of Lewis, Sister Jeannine Joch­man, C.S.C., of Lyons, and Father Gary Sabourin, O.F.M., of St. Edward's. -The Observer 
The National Endowment for the Humanities has recently awarded grants in the area ofSummer Seminars for Secondary School Teachers to two Notre Dame professors. Professor Thomas Morris of the Philosophy Department and Professor Walter Nicgorski of the Program of Liberal Studies will each be enabled by the grants to teach a ,summer seminar. The recipient of a $52,316 award, Nicgorski will lead a seminar entided Ciceros Aspirations.' Morris was awarded a grant of $47,295 which will fund a seminar Pascals Pensees: Faith, Reason and the Meaning of Life.' -The Observer 

The Notre Dame student who was bitten by a South Bend Police dog last spring has decided not to bring any legal action against the department. Junior Jeff Morgan claimed the dog jumped on him and bit him 22 times on the arms and legs. The dog was brought by the police to a party at 601 Corby Street on April 24 in order to break it up. Morgan said he spoke with a~ attorney about the incident, and was told that although he had a good case and would probably win, the resulting legal fees would be greater than any da­mages he could hope to receive. Captain Patrick Cottrell, head of the South Bend Police Department's East Sector, siad last April that Morgan struck the handler of the dog and brought the consequences on himself. -The Observer 
The Student Senate approved the 1986-87 budget by a vote of 13-1 last night, according to Student Body President Mike Switek. Funds for the budget come from the $55 student activity fee that all undergraduates pay. The $385,000 budget includes $149,000 for Student Activities Board, $75,350 for student government, $52,500 for clubs and organizations, $35,000 for WVFI-AM capital improvements, $29,000 for the classes of 1987, 1988, and 1989. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Notre Dame Jazz Band tryouts for interested students will be held on Sunday at I p.m. in the Jazz Loft of the Band Annex Building. There are openings on all instruments. ­The Observer 
Students must move their cars out of the parking lot which surrounds Notre Dame Stadium, said Director of Security Rex Rakow. If students do not comply, they will be ticketed and their cars will be towed. -The Observer 

Students need to register their cars soon because Notre Dame Security will enforce its policy shortly, said Rex Rakow, director of security. -The Observer 

Weather 
August weather retu~to Michiana, replacing the November cool of the last few days. Sunny today with a high of 72. Partly cloudy and warm tomorrow with a high of 80. 



The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member ofThe Associated Press. All reproduc­tion rights arc reserved. 


Domestic and Imported Wines, Beers, Liquors 


ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood Drive South Bend, Indiana 466.35 272-7144 
Welcome Baptist Students 



BAPTIST 
Stude·nt Union 

Bible Study .. Fellowship • Fun 
Join * Moodaw, September 8, 1"-16* Time: 7p.m. 
* At the Bulla House

Us! 
Agreat pizza is getdng harder and harder to find. 
Bat ben Ilia. Great tutJ enaat Lua­bave to 10 out or your way t.o rlDd ua. doul aauce. Real cbeele. paled rrem we go out or our way to make llwor1h every step you take.
ToppiDp. topplDp, topplap. Becaue you mlgbt 
-~ Godfatha~ Pizza. 
52920 U.S. 31 N 277·5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------1 
: Friday and Saturday : Coupon Special : Large for .Price of Medium 
I 
I·

1 Good for Carry out or delivery 1 Delivery and tax extra 1 Not valid with any other offer 
I Delivery unttl11 :00 pm weekdaya : 2:00am on Friday and Saturday 
1 Expires 9/12/86 
~k 



L----------------------------------­
Fall Film------------­



Series 
The Department of Communication and sound system goes into operation in the Theatre at least a week in advance of the Observer on Fridays. For information about times for different series offerings. Theatre offers films to the public Monday Annenberg Auditorium, complementing the scheduled screening -x5134 -as films and schedule changes, you may also Series tickets may be purchased at the through Friday nights. Monday, Tuesday, theatrical quality 16mm projector installed seating in the Loft is limited.) consult the Film Series Hotline at door at the Snite or from Mary Mitchell, and Friday films will be screened at the last January. 239·7167, which will be updated con· Dept. of Communication and Theatre, 320 Annenberg Auditorium. Snite Museum of The Department of Communication and tinuously throughout the semester. O'Shaughnessy Hall, during business·
We thank our audience for its continued
Art, University of Notre Dame campus. Theatre strives in all instances to follow hours: 8:30 am -12:DO and 1:00 ­
interest and support in making the film Attendance at the film series is grow·
With generous support from the College of the schedule printed in this calendar. 4:30 pm (239·5134).
series the successful campus events that ing, especially on Fridays. For popular
Arts and Letters and the Snite Museum of However, circumstances beyond our con·
they have become. We urge you to con· titles, it is best to arrive 15 minutes early.
Art, the film series will continue with its trol sometimes force us to make last The Department of Communication and
tinue to support the film series through We attempt, insofar as it is possible, to
policy of low prices: individual admission minute changes. For instance, prints are Theatre has been the recipient of two 
your attendance; continued financial sup· begin screenings at the scheduled times.
will remain $1.50. In addition to individual sometimes lost in the mail; film generous gifts which have made the
port is contingent upon audience interest.
admission, season tickets are also laboratories sometimes fail to meet As always, we welcome any sugges· following films available for screening in available: (1 ) a season ticket good for any Members of the campus communities deadlines for producing prints of a film; lions you might have concerning program· the film series: from the Charles Wolf Col· 25 films shown in the Annenberg are invited to attend classroom screenings and distributors sometimes remove films ming and future series. Please submit any lection, Citizen Kane, Nosferatu, The Gold Auditorium during the Fall 1986 semester in the O'Shaughnessy Loft on Wednesday under litigation from distribution without suggestions or comments to Pamela Rush, and The Yenow Rolls·Royce; from will be $30; (2) a season ticket for any and Thursday. No admission will be charg· any advance warning. We hope for your Falkenberg, Film Series Committee, Dept. the James Robert Collection, The Music 15 films shown in the Annenberg ed for these classroom screenings. patience in such circumstances; whenever of Communication and Theatre, 320 Man, Destry Rides Again, Coroner Creek, Auditorium during the Fall 1986 semester (However, faculty intending to send a possible, we will try to provide advance O'Shaughnessy Hall, University of Notre and Singln' in the Rain. Additional films will be $20. class to a classroom screening are urged information about schedule changes Dame. from both collections will be screened as 
In the fall of 1986 a newly enhanced to contact the Dept. of Communication and through our advertisements in the Please note different locations and part of future film series. 
Monday Night Tuesday Night Wednesday Night Thursday Night Friday Night Film Series I and II Film Series Film Series Film Series Film Series 
7:00 and 9:00 pm (or later) 7:30pm 7:00pm 7:00 prn 7:30 and 9:30 pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum O'Shaughnessy Loft O'Shaughnessy Lot Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum (check individual film descriptions for se· Most of these films are shown in con· These films are shown in conjunction These films are shown in conjunction (check individual film descriptions for cond screening times) junction with COTH 330 Critical Issues in with COTH 322 Media and Society and ad· with COTH 358 Film Criticism and allow a times of second showings) 
Monday Night I. These films span Media Studies. which is being offered this dress a range of concerns about the rela· range of critical interrogations of the film Recent American and foreign films of American and world film styles, year on an interdisciplinary basis with the tionship of films and the film industry to form: auteurism, genre studies, audience the international art cinema. This demonstrating the full range of cinematic Dept. of Anthropology. The course takes American culture. response, ideological analysis, narrative semester, these films are shown in con· art. Shown in conjunction with COTH 140 up the topic of technology, representation, form, etc. junction with COTH 322, COTH 330, COTH Basics of Film Studies. and social change in Latin America, and 358 and COTH 395. 
Monday Night II. These films engage a will address a wide range of films from variety of theoretical and research issues that region. The remaining films are being in film and media studies. Shown in con· seen by a variety of classes: COTH 395 junction with COTH 395 Media Theory and Media Theory and Research, COTH 322 Research. Media and Society, and a freshman 
seminar. 
December======= 

7:00pm Mildred Pierce 9:00 pm lady Of Burlesque  7:30pm Caught  7:00pm Night Drum  NO FILM  7:30 & 9:40 pm Kiss Of The Spider Woman  
7  8 7:00pm Night Of The living Dead 9:00pm History Is Made At Night  9 7:30pm Gentlemen Prefer Blondes  10 7:00pm Yellow Rolls-Royce  11  NO FILM  12  13  

12/1 7:00 pm Mildred Pierce (1945) B/W, 111 min. Michael Curtiz. USA 
Joan Crawford won an Academy Award for her portrayal of a determined woman's rise from waitress to restaurateur. Curtiz' allegorical portrayal of American motherhood combines his fascination with the night world with the ambiance of 1940's Southern California. 
12/1 9:00 pm Lady Of Burlesque (1943) B/W, 93 min. William Wellman, USA 
Barbara Stanwyck as dancer Dixie Daisy appoints herself detective to solve the murders of other burlesque girls found strangled by the sequined tools of their trade. 
12/2 7:30pm Caught (1949) BIW, 88 min. Max Ophuls, USA 
Ugly Duckling Barbara Bel Geddes is 
swept off her feet by rich schizophrenic Robert Ryan, who installs her in a luxury mansion and then proceeds to treat her coldly and contemptibly in this psychological drama. With James Mason as the compassionate doctor to whom Bel Geddes escapes. 
12/3 7:00pm Night Drum (1958) B/W, 95 min. Tadashi lmai, Japan 
Adapted from a famous bunraku play by Monzaemon Chikamatsu, Drum is set in 1706 and relates the story of a married woman who has an affair with her son's drum instructor. The affair is discovered, and the social code of the samurai die· tales that both must die. In lmai's hands, this story becomes the occasion for a critique of the rigidity of feudal social codes, which prevent the husband from forgiving his repentant wife, and which is meant as a larger allegory about modem Japanese society. Presented in conjunction with the English Department. 
12/5 7:30 and 9:40 pm Kiss Of The Spider Woman (1985) Color, 119 min. Hector Babenco, Brazil/United States 
"Adapted by Leonard Schrader from Manuel Puig's unusually structured novel with an imaginativeness that amounts to absolute fidelity" -New York Times. The story of two very different prisoners in a Latin American jail, Spider Woman is a "film of insights and surprises" -Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun· Times. With Raoul Julia and William Hurt, best actor at Can· nes and the Academy Awards. 
12/8 7:00pm Night Of The Living Dead (1968) BIW, 91 min. George Romero, USA 

Then unknown Romero made what was to become one of the great underground ghoulish masterpieces on a shoestring budget outside of Pittsburgh. Romero's nightmarish world of the living dead pro· vides a key to repressed dimensions of contemporary society. 
12/8 9:00pm History Is Made At Night (1937) B/W, 87 min. Frank Borzage, USA 
History Is Made At Night is not only the most romantic title in the history of the cinema but also a profound expression of Borzage's commitment to love over pro· bability. An uncompromising romantic, Bor· zage imparts an aura to his characters, not merely through soft focus and a fluid camera, but through a genuine concern with the wondrous inner life of lovers in the midst of adversity. In this case, adver. sity includes being torn apart by chance, then being reunited only to face a ship· wreck at sea. Charles Boyer plays the debonair waiter who falls for Jean Arthur, a woman above his station. 

12/9 7:30pm 
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes 
(1953) Color, 91 min. 
Howard Hawks, USA 
Marilyn Monroe and Jane Russell play two showgirls who em bark for France seeking rich husbands in this marvelous musical featuring 'Diamonds Are A Girl's Best Friend." 
12/10 7:00 pm 
Yelow Rols-Royce (1965) Color, 122 min. 
Anthony Asquith, USA 
Set in three vignettes, this international comedy with a stellar cast (including Rex Harrison, Ingrid Bergman, Shirley MacLaine, Art Carney, George C. Scott, Jeanne Moreau, Omar Sharif, Wally Cox and Alain Delon) traces the adventures and romantic foibles of the three different owners of a beautiful yellow Rolls-Royce. 

9/1 7:00 and 9:15 pm (film series opening night special -admis­sion free) Citizen Kane (1941) BIW, 119 min. Orson Welles, USA 
Orson Welles debuts with the Mercury Theatre players in this dynamic story of a newspaper publisher who is corrupted by power, politics, and a loveless marriage. Oaring, controversial, and perhaps America's greatest, most visually stunning film. Told with imaginative camera angles and dynamic editing that effortlessly moves between past and present in a multiple flashback structure that challenges the limits of filmic narration. 
9/2 7:30pm 
The Harder They Come 
(1973) Color, 103 min. 
Perry Henzel! 
This exhilarating Jamaican cult classic introduces reggae star Jimmy Cliff to the screen as Ivan, a budding country musi­cian. Cheated by the corrupt recording business. Ivan's one man rebellion makes him a folk hero and proves, as in the song, "You can get it if you really want, but you must try." The Harder They Come is an accessible but hard-hitting statement about the exploitation and commercializa­tion of Third World cultures. 
9/3 7:00pm Only Angels Have Wings (1939) B/W, 122 min. Howard Hawks, USA 
Showgirl Jean Arthur invades a Hawk­sian horde of male professionals (in this case, airmail pilots running a chancy air­mail service in an exotic banana republic) and falls for Cary Grant, their cynical, Hemingway-esque leader. Arthur must pro­ve that she is "good enough" to join a world where it is impolite to refer to the dangers the men face, while Grant, having failed once at romance with Rita Hayworth, must risk being burned twice in the same place. Hawk's own profes­sionalism is evident in his consummate narrative and technical skill. 
9/4 7:00pm 
The Gold Rush 
(1925) B/W, 81 min. 
Charles Chaplin, USA 
Considered by most to be the best of Charles Chaplin, and the silent screen's finest comedy, Gold Rush is the film by which Chaplin himself wanted to be remembered. A masterful combination of humor, pathos and tragedy, it is the bit­tersweet tale of an amateur prospector who finds wealth and love in the Klondike at the tum of the century. 
9/5 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
Oon't Look Back 
(1967) B/W, 90 min. 
Don A. Pennebaker, USA 
This cinema verite account of Bob Dylan's 1965 tour of England is among the best of rock documentaries. It includes a bitterly ironic, reproachful Dylan shredding a Time interviewer, Dylan dealing gently with Donovan's worshipful attention by singing him "It's All Over Now, Baby Blue," and -utterly on top of it all ­opening the film with the cue-card toss of "Subterranean Homesick Blues." 
9/8 7:00 and 9:00 pm 
American Dreamer 
(1985) Color, 105 min. 
Rick Rosenthal, USA 
A fun-filled, hilarious and daffy comedy of confused identities, adventure, interna­tional intrigue and love starring Jo Beth Williams as the American housewife who wins a writing contest and a trip to Paris to meet a world famous mystery/romance novelist (played by Tom Conti and mas­querading under his mother's name). The plot of the film remodels and comments upon its romance novel subject matter in constituting the 1980's version of a desirable fiction. Hilariously outdoes 
Romancing the Stone. 
9/9 7:30 pm 
LeHer From An Unknown Woman (1948) B/W, 89 min. 
Max Ophuls, USA 
Ophul's finest American film shows all of his continental flair for cinematic opulence. Joan Fontaine reveals her lifelong love for concert pianist Louis Jour­dan, who had fathered her child years before, but now cannot even remember her name. 
9/10 7:00pm Nosleratu (1922) B/W, 63 min. 
F.W. Murnau, Germany 
Murnau's Nosferatu is the archetypical film version of the Dracula legend. By con­trasting impressionistic sunlit images of the natural world with the expressionistic figure of the vampire, Mumau has created a poetic allegory of innocence, death and sexual repression that has lost none of its power to disturb and terrify. 
9/11 7:00pm Scarface (1932) B/W, 90 min. Howard Hawks, USA 
In the brutal story of organized crime's pinch on the city of Chicago during Pro­hibition, Paul Muni gives one of the best performances of his career as the pushy gangster Tony Camonte, whose only redeeming feature is his love for his sister, who proves to be his double and causes his doom. Scarface powerfully demonstrates the ambivalent appeal of the gangster figure for audiences, establishing Muni and his coin-flipping aide George Raft as major Hollywood stars. 
9/12 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
Bye Bye Brazil 
(1980) Color, 11 0 min. 
Carlos Diegues, Brazil 

A hypnotically languorous road movie with an upbeat political kick, Brazil fuses Cinema Novo with more directly engaging entertainment forms. The story follows a small time travelling roadshow across the dusty backroads of Brazil, a crazyquilt of primitivism and progress. The sideshow hovers on the edge of allegory and ped­dles cardboard magic, tawdry yet enchan­ting. Heading deep into the interior in search of less demanding audiences, they find the "primitive" back country rife with TV sets, disco music, and jet planes. The film ends unsentimentally, on a note of wry optimism and renewed innocence; as Diegues says, "Bye Bye Brazil is a film about a country which is about to come to an end in order to make way for another which is about to be born." One of the most original and entertaining foreign films of recent years" -Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Times. 
9/15 7:00pm 
The Third Man (1949) B/W, 103 min. Carol Reed, Great Britain 

In a classic thriller that ends with a manhunt through the sewers of Vienna, an American writer of western pulp fiction ar­rives in postwar Europe and learns from the police that the friend he has come to visit has been killed. Orson Welles is brilliantly malevolent as the sinister friend who is in reality a vicious extortionist. The film's atmosphere is intensified by the zither music of the legendary Anton Karas score. The screenplay is by Graham Greene. With Joseph Cotten and Alida Valli. 
9/15 9:00pm Reckless Moment (1949) B/W, 89 min. Max Ophuls, USA 

Murder and blackmail threaten the unity of Joan Bennett's cookies-and-milk middle class American household when her daughter is romanced by the wrong sort. Max Ophuls adds a European touch to this stylish and unusual film noir. 
9/16 7:30pm Oeath Of A Bureaucrat (1966) B/W, 87 min. Tomas Gutierrez Alea, Cuba 

An entertaining, blackly hilarious attack on galloping bureaucracy, audaciously mix­ing slapstick farce and paranoid nightmare with a dense chain of allusions to film comedy, from the anarchic tradition of Bunuel and Vigo, to the satire of Billy Wilder, to the custard-pie classicism of the great silent comedians. The story tells of a young man's attempt to disinter and re­bury his uncle -a move that lands him at odds with official regulations. Into this dilemma, Alea works his comedy. 
9/17 7:00pm 
October (1928) B/W, 99 min. 
Sergei Eisenstein, USSR 
Eisenstein's spectacular reconstruction of the events that took place in Russia between Lenin's secret return from exile and the Bolshevik seizure of power in 1917. For Eisenstein, revolution is larger than its heroes and villains: October is a kaleidoscope of images and impressions, visual puns and counterpoints, all evoking immense upheaval. Using authentic set­tings, including the Winter Palace, and thousands of extras, many of whom had been involved in the Revolution, Eisenstein has created a visually compelling and historically significant masterpiece. 
9/18 7:00 pm Plnocchio (1940) Color, 78 min. Ben Sharpsteen and Hamilton Luske, USA 
The Disney organization here is at the very top of its form. The story, which we have assumed was well-known for genera­tions, was actually not translated into English until the late 1920's. t>inocchio is a marionette created by Gepetto, a lonely puppet maker who longs for a real son. 
9/19 7:30 and 9:30 pm Draughtman's Contract (1982) Color, 107 min. Peter Greenaway, Great Britain 
This tale of murder and intrigue is set in an English country house in 1694. Mr. Neville, an ambitious young draughtsman, strikes an unusual bargain leading to murder. Greenaway creates a remarkably detailed atmosphere in this Restoration comedy-mystery-thriller. 
9/22 7:00pm 
Breathless (1959) B/W, 90 min. 
Jean-Luc Godard, France 
Godard's first feature film is a jazz-like improvisation on existential crime thrillers, featuring now legendary performances by Jean-Paul Belmondo as a small-time hood living on the edge and Jean Seberg as the American girl who casually takes up with him and just as casually betrays him. Reinventing the vocabulary of film style, Godard transforms camera, soundtrack and editing from semi-transparent functionaries into fully liberated materials as concretely expressive as words in a Joyce novel, col­or and line in a Picasso painting, or gestures in a Brecht play. 

9/22 9:00pm 
Some Came Running 
(1959) Color, cinemascope, 136 min. 
Vincente Minnelli, USA 
Based on the James Jones novel of the disillusionment of a worldly-wise, hard­drinking G.l. who comes back to his small town in Indiana and sees through the hyprocrisy of "respectable" people. With Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, and Shirley MacLaine. 
9/23 7:30pm 
They Oon't Wear Black Tie 
(1981) Color, 120 min. 
Leon Hirszman, Brazil 
An intimate, vibrant portrait of industrial Brazil portrayed in terms of a Sao Paolo family whose household is torn apart by the outbreak of a violent factory strike. The conflict that arises between the radical, unionist father and his conser­vative, independent son -as well as the battle that ensues between the son and his young, feminist fiancee -creates a moving, powerful family drama. "Strong, extremely moving and beautifully directed and acted" -Vincent Canby, New York Times. 
9/24 7:00pm 
Touch Of Evil (1958) B/W, 110 min. 
Orson Welles, USA 
Newlywed narcotics cop Charlton Heston and American Janet Leigh tangle with a corrupt American police officer, played by Orson Welles himself, over murder in a seedy Mexican border town. The fantastic, justifiably famous seven minute opening sequence shot concludes with an explosion and merely commences what is a stylistic masterpiece. With great cameos by Marlene Dietrich and Mercedes McCambridge. 
9/26 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
Quilombo 
(1984) Color, 114 min. 
Carlos Diegues, Brazil 
A historical saga deriving from fact, 

Duilombo is a stirring fusion of folklore, 
political impact, and dynamic storytelling, 
realized in vibrant tropical colors and set 
to the pulsing beat of Gilberta Gil's musical 
score. Duilombo chronciles the most 
famous 17th century "black Eldorado," Palmares. a self-governing community of tacular blood-and-thunder battle scenes. declines into drunkenness in this be a liar, cheat -and possibly a 
a remarkable demonstration that artistic escaped slaves in the jungle highland. Set Hollywood allegory. murderer. Cary Grant gives a smooth per­subtlety, political commitment, and 9129 7:00pm formance as the husband in Hitchcock's
on the borderline between history and superior entertainment need not be incom­legend. between the mountains and the A Star Is Born 9129 9:45pm unsettling thriller. patible. The first film from post­sky. Ouilombo is a powerful vision of (1 954) Color, 154 min. Suspicion Revolutionary Cuba to be released in the paradise -sensual and robust -and Vincente Minnelli, USA (1941) B/W, 99 min. 9/30 7:30 pm 
U.S., Memories had a widespread impact Diegues invigorates his Utopian ideal with Judy Garland pays a heartbreaking price Alfred Hitchcock, USA Memories Of Underdevelopment perhaps unequalled in the history of Third 
tough political questions; rousing. larger­for her sudden rise to stardom in the Joan Fontaine won an Oscar for her (1968) BIW, 97 min. World cinema. Set in the early 60's, the than-life performances (including Xica's musical remake of the 1937 classic. performance as a wealthy but inexperienc­Tomas Gutierrez Alea, Cuba film centers on a Europeanized Cuban in­Zeze Motta as a formidable woman war­James Mason also gives a compelling per­ed British girl who marries an unprincipled Both a critique of revolutionary society 
tellectual too idealistic (or lazy) to fit into 
rior); fabulous, exotic scenery, and spec-formance as the has-been husband who charmer, whom she gradually discovers to and a critique of that critique, Memories is the new Cuban society. 

October======== 

10/1 7:00pm Music Man (1962) Color, 151 min. Morton Da Costa, USA 
Exuberant musical with the dynamic Robert Preston as Professor Harold Hill, the traveling music man stranded in tum­of-the-century River City. Shirley Jones is Marion the librarian. Meredith Willson score includes "76 Trombones" and "Till There Was You." 
1012 7:00 pm Bonnie And Clyde (1 967) 111 min. Arthur Penn, USA 
Plunging from comedy to melodrama and social commentary, Bonnie and Clyde remains stylish throughout A trend-setting film about the folk-hero bank robbing team of Clyde Barrow, Bonnie Parker, and their gang in the 1930's. 
1013 7:30 and 9:30 pm lnslgnttlcance (1 985) Color, 110 min. Nicholas Ray, Great Britain 
Adapted by Terry Johnson from his 1982 play, Insignificance is a fantasy about encounters during one long 1953 night involving Joe DiMaggio, Marilyn Monroe, Albert Einstein, and U.S. Senator Joe McCarthy. "Enchanting ... thought provoking ... Insignificance is Back to the Future for adults" -Gene Siskel, Chicago Tribune. 
1016 7:00pm Diva (1 982) Color, 123 min. Jean-Jacques Beiniex, France 
Beiniex delivers a breathtaking array of visual images and pleasing symmetries in this romantic thriller updated for the 80's in the best of the new French New Wave. Using opera as performance, the film raises questions about art, filmmaking, and their mass mediation. 
10/6 9:15pm 
Psycho 
(1960) BIW, 109 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 
Hitchcock was never funnier or more 
terrifying than in this film about 
voyeurism, identification, and temptation, 
complemented by Bernard Hermann's 
brilliantly eerie score. With Janet Leigh 
and Anthony Perkins. 
1017 7:30 pm 
Antonio Das Mortes 
(1 969) Color, 100 min. 
Glauber Rocha, Brazil 
A hitherto unseen form of revolutionary aesthetic, a Brazilian folk-epic with operatic, expressionistic, melodramatic overtones derived from equal parts of folk­history, mysticism, superstition, political repression, and social injustice. Winner, best director at Cannes, 1969. 
1018 7:00pm 
Slngln' In The Rain (1952) Color, 103 min. 
Gene Kelly and Stanley Oonen, USA 
Perhaps the greatest movie musical of all time, fashioned by Betty Camden and Adolph Green from a catalogue of Arthur Freed-Nacio Herb Brown songs. The set­ting is Hollywood during the transition to talkies, which enables the film to affirm the movie musical via a parodic "critique" of studio politics, the entertainment in· dustry, and the mass audience. The film­within-a-film structure provides a forum for performances by Gene Kelly, Debbie Reynolds, Cyd Charissa, and Donald O'Con­nor. 
10110 7:30 and 9:30 pm Sugarbaby (1985) Color, 86 min. Percy Adlon, Germany 
A comic Cinderella fable about a woman who rouses herself from a deaden­ing job in order to capture the man of her dreams. Percy Adlon (Celeste) uses marvelously flamboyant neon lighting to capture the characters' inner worlds. "A little miracle" -Los Angeles Times. "Un­predictable throughout. The unexpected element here is humor, and Sugarbaby has quite a lot" -Janet Maslin, New York Times. "Bracingly offbeat ... generous and funny. You leave Sugarbaby as you would a fine meal, happy and at peace" -David Edelstein, Village Voice. 
10/13 7:00 pm 
Shadow Of A Doubt (1943) B/W, 108 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 

An understated thriller notable for its in­sinuation of nightmare into a situation of normalcy. Screenwriter Thornton (Our Town) Wilder and Hitchcock went to great pains to establish an exact portrait of smalltown America as the background for terror. 
10/13 9:00 pm 
The Birds (1963) Color, 119 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 

Hitchcock's purest expression of an ar­bitrary universe, The Birds constitutes a prodigious achievement in creating the undeniable reality of seemingly impossible events as hundreds of people are victims of mysterious mass attacks by fierce birds. 
10114 7:30 pm El Super (1979) Color, 90 min. Leon lchaso and Orlando Jimenez-Leal 
An important film because it explores a vital segment of reality (Hispanic emigre culture) previously untouched by the camera, and a very funny one, with a low­key, quietly desperate wit that sneaks up on you -a bit like Jules Feiffer con salsa. Roberto, a Cuban exile, has been a building superintendent in New York for ten years now, stranded in a strange land of snow, garbage, and crime, looking at the world from a basement's-eye point-of­view. The film describes with humor, com­passion, and accuracy Roberto's persistent dream of returning to Cuba, or even to Miami, where at least it doesn't snow. 
10115 7:00 pm 
His Girl Friday 
(1 940) BIW, 95 min. 
Howard Hawks, USA 
Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell toss up 
a bliuard of one-liners as a divorced cou­
ple who work as reporters on a quick­
breaking story. They are surrounded by 
cynical hack journalists, laughably corrupt 
government officials, and Rosalind's 
husband-to-be (Ralph Bellamy). He's a pa­
tient schnook waiting for her to get out of 
her blood the urge to chase fire engines. 
One of the best of the original screwball 
comedies providing the inspiration for 
ABC's Moonlighting. 
10127 7:00 pm 
Vertigo 
(1958) Color, 126 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 
James Stewart stars as the hero who 
must overcome vertigo and his obsession 
for Kim Novak. An eerie tale of passion, 
considered one of the great films of all 
time. 
10/27 9:15 pm 
Mamie 
(1964) Color, 130 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 
One of Alfred Hitchcock's most roman­tic and emotionally intense films, Mamie studies an amateur psychologist's obses­sion with a beautiful kleptomaniac who is haunted by strange dreams and the color red. Sean Connery and Tippi Hedren star in this richly expressive film that is one of Hitchcock's most unusual. 
10128 7:30 pm 
Xlea (1976) Color, 120 min. Carlos Diegues, Brazil 
Based on a true story of a legendary black slave whom the director compares to France's Joan of Arc, this is a festive exercise in Brazilian Baroque dominated by the dynamic central performance of lean, fiery Zezc Motta, described by her director as "a combination of Eartha Kitt and 

Carmen Miranda." The first product of re­cent Brazilian cinema to enjoy both widespread commercial and critical suc­cess, Xica marks a major turning point in Cinema Novo toward a new style which mixes political relevance with a broad, earthy, accessible approach. A diamond rush in the 18th century transformed the interior of Brazil into a new El Dorado, a place of fabulous wealth and excess. In this immoderate atmosphere, the slave Xica parlays an iron determination and a unique, unnamed sexuartalent into a rise to power that makes her the unofficial Em­press of Brazil. 
10/29 7:00pm 
Rio Bravo 
(1959) Color, 141 min. 
Howard Hawks, USA 
Sheriff John Wayne tries to prevent a killer with connections from escaping from the town jail, with only an alcoholic Dean Martin and gimpy Walter Brennan to help him. Angie Dickinson and Ricky Nelson soon join in, the former because she is smitten by the Duke's wordless charm and the latter because the bad guys have kill· ed his boss. Here, in one of his most op­timistic and touching films, Hawks' profes­sional group is finally joined by rather than separated from the community that it pro­tects. 
10/31 7:3D and 9:30pm 
Ll Passante (1983) Color, 106 min. Jacques Rouffio, Franc!' 
Romy Schneider, in her last film, plays a dual role as the wife of a present day political activist and the wife of an anti· fascist newspaper editor in Berlin in the 1930's (and also the activist's foster mother). Past and present merge in the activist's trial for the murder of the Nazi responsible for his foster mother's death, which he has committed despite his philosophical commitment to non-violence. These dual roles and dual time frames allow Rouffio to raise complex questions about guilt and moral political action. 

November======= 
4 

6 
8
3 
5 
7

2 
7:00pm Alice In The Cities 
7:30pm 7:00pm 

7:30 & 9:30 pm
Dona Flor And 

Destry Rides Again 
NO FILM One From The Heart 

Her Two Husbands The Fury 
9:00P.M. 
11 
12 
14 

15 7:00pm The Amencan Friend 
113
10
9 

7:30pm Only7:00pm7:30pm 
Stagecoach Mozart:NOALM9:15pm Hour Of The Furnaces AChildhood Chronicle
Phantom Of The (Part1 Only) Paradise 
22

16 
17 18 19 20 21
7:00pm 
The Most 
7:30pm 7:00pm

Dangerous Game 7:30 & 9:30 pm
Missing Coroner Creek NOALM 
A Room Wnh A View 9:00pm Rancho Notorious 
24 25 26
23 29 7:00pm
30 
Marked Woman 7:30pm Portrait Of Teresa 
THANK GIVING VA ATION
9:00pm 
The Lusty Men 

1113 7:00pm 
Alee In Tile Cities 
(1973) B/W, 110 min. 
Wim Wenders, West Germany 
About the journey of an American jour· nalist and a nine-year-old from the U.S. to Europe, "Alice is a film with a great deal to say about Europe and America, about the exhaustion of dreams and the homogenization of nations, about roots and the awareness of time, about sterility and creativity. about vicarious and real adven­ture and, eventually, about the possibilities of the future.... A line, tightly controll­ed, intelligent and ultimately touching film" -New York Times. 
1113 9:00pm 
Tile Fury (1978) Color, 115 min. Brian de Palma, USA 
Visually breathtaking and poetically violent, The Fury is a tour de Ioree horror film that concerns a government agent (Kirk Douglas), his psychic son, and a research institute developing new forms of war. What is most brilliant about The Fury is that the techniques of filmmaking are used within the film itself to manipulate its characters, thus enabling the film to comment on its formal mechanisms and their effect on the spectator. With Amy Ir­ving and John Cassavetes. 
1114 7:30pm 
Dona Aor And Her Two Husbands 
(1977) Color, 106 min. 
Bruno Baretto, Brazil 
A kind of updated ribald folktale based on Jorge Amado's novel, Dona Floris an intoxicating carnival of a movie, full of bright colors, noisy parties, home cooking, balmy Bahia atmosphere, and pulsing Brazilian music. Starring Sonia Braga, Brazil's Sophia Loren. 
1115 7:00 pm Destry Rides Again (1939) BIW, 94 min. George Marshall, USA 
In this parodic western Jimmy Stewart tries to bring law and order to the rowdy town of Bottleneck without using his guns. In the process, he tangles with the town's "real boss," dance-hall girl Marlene Dietrich, who has "that look that leaves you weak." Demonstrating the rules of the western genre precisely by violating them, Destry demonstrates the sell­consciousness and ingenuity of the classic Hollywood cinema. 
1117 7:30 and 9:30pm 
One From Tile Heart 
(1982) Color, 100 min. 
Francis Ford Coppola, USA 
Coppola re-created the Las Vegas strip on a sound stage lor his ninth motion pic­ture, which is simultaneously an old fashioned romantic comedy, a musical fan­tasy, and an erotic love story. A postmodern visual least, One From the Heart is a lavish spectacle -staggering, sumptuous, sensuous and stunning. With Terri Garr, Nastassia Kinski, Raul Julia, Harry Dean Stanton, and Frederic Forrest. 
11110 7:00pm 
The American Friend 
(1977) Color, 127 min. 
Wim Wenders, West Germany 
Adapted from a Patricia Highsmith thriller, Ripley's Game, this film raises Wenders' themes of rootlessness and the tenuousness of personality to a global level, detailing a homogenized postmodern world in which cities, languages, and cultures blur into each other with an ex· hiliarating and frightening ease. The baro­quely complex storyline centers on an or­dinary Hamburg artisan (Bruno Ganz) .:mployed as an assassin by a French gangster (Gerald Blain) through the manipulation of a mysterious American (Dennis Hopper). Wenders' visual style, based on a red-blue color scheme of neon· like intensity, is overpoweringly rich and allusive. 
11110 9:15pm Phantom Of The Paradise (1974) Color, 92 min. Brian de Palma, USA 
Oscar winner Paul Williams stars and composed the score of Phantom, which satirizes both horror films and rock groups through the story of a composer of a rock cantata on the theme of Faust, who sells his soul for rock'n'roll. 
11111 7:30 pm 
Hour Of The Furnaces 

(Part I only) 1968) BIW. 95 min. 
Fernado Solanas and Octavia Getino, 
Argentina 

A timely, impassioned presentation of 
the liberation struggle being waged 
throughout Latin America, using Argentina 
as a historical example of the imperialist 
exploitation of the continent. Part I, "Neo· 
Colonialism and Violence," is a historical, 
geographic, and economic analysis of 
Argentina, separated into a prologue and 
thirteen film essays on the Argentina 
situation. 
11112 7:00pm 
Stagecoach 
(1939) B/W, 100 min. 
John Ford, USA 

John Wayne, until this film only a B­movie star, skyrocketed to A-film stardom with his portrayal of the Ringo kid, a notorious gunman who joins a group of very different passengers who are making a dangerous journey across hostile Indian territory on the Overland stage. Thomas Mitchell won an Oscar for his performance as the drunken doctor in the most classic of classic westerns. 
11114 7:30pm 

Mozart: A Childhood Chronicle 
(1976) BIW, 224 min. 
Klaus Kirschner, Germany 

Based on the Mozart family's legendary letters. "A wonderfully big, complex, and 
moving film that should not be missed! Chronicle is a very special movie. It is alive with the exuberance, the wit, the 
intelligence and the love of these four peo­
ple" [Mozart, his mother, his lather, and his older sister] -Vincent Canby, New York Times. "An engrossing and rewar­ding experience ... a whole era of 18th century life, psychologically as well as socially and historically, comes alive" ­
San Francisco Chronicle. 

11117 7:00 pm The Most Dangerous Game (1932) BIW, 63 min. Ernest Schoedsack and Irving Piche!, USA 
A bizarre allegory about nature and culture, and yet one of at least a dozen variations on the theme of a retired ex· plorer who secludes himself on a deserted island and lures human prey into his sights, no longer finding excitement in kill­ing animals. Produced at the same time as King Kong, the two films alternately used the same sets, technicians, and even some of the same players. Based on the story by Richard Cornell, The Hounds of Zaroff. 
11117 9:00 pm 
Rancho Notorious 
(1952) Color, 89 min. 
Fritz Lang, USA 
Marlene Dietrich, a former dance hall 
queen, now rules over a bandit hideout in­
vaded by a rancher hunting out the men 
who raped and murdered his fiancee. A 
forceful, offbeat psycho-western with a 
Germanic touch. 
11118 7:30pm 
Missing 
(1982) Color, 122 min. 
Constantine Costa-Gavras, USA 
Missing orchestrates a tautly con­
structed, suspenseful political thriller about 
an American writer, John Shea, who 
mysteriously disappears in a politically 
torn South American country. Based on a 
true incident, Missing traces the attempts 
by wife Sissy Spacek and lather Jack 
Lemmon to lind the "missing" Shea. 
11119 7:00pm 
Coroner Creek 
(1948) Color, 93 min. 
Ray Enright, USA 
Randolph Scott goes outside society in seeking revenge on his fiancee's killer in this vengeance variation on the classic western plot. Even more than John Wayne, Scott is the star who constitutes the epitomal western hero -strong, skill· ed. and silent. 
11121 7:30 and 9:30 pm 
A Room With A View (1985) Color, 115 min. James Ivory, Great Britain 
Derived from an E.F. Forster novel, Room is a droll comedy of manners about a young Englishwoman who recoils from the too-passionate advances of a hand­some freethinker by engaging herself to a orio. Siskel and Ebert both rated the film at four stars. With delightful period decor 

and a distinguished cast including Maggie 
Smith and Denholm Elliott. 
11124 7:00 pm 
Marked Woman (1937) B/W, 96 min. Lloyd Bacon. USA 
Bristling gangster drama of district at· torney Humphrey Bogart convincing Bette Davis and lour girlfriends to testify against their boss. underworld king Giannelli. As the lively hostess of the Club lntime -a clip joint of the worst sort -who turns police informer. Bette Davis embodies the sensational side of 1930's movies. The film achieves an intensity not common to other 1930's movies built out of headline stories. A fine example of Warner Bros. depression socialist realism. 
11124 9:00 pm 
The lusty Men 
(1952) BIW, 114 min. 
Nicholas Ray, USA 
Robert Mitchum is a reformed bronc buster who can't resist one last chance at glory. and Susan Hayward is a vitriolic man-hater in this Nick (Rebel Without A Cause) Ray classic. A modern western about ambition, competition, and romance, where the rodeo has replaced the frontier. 
11125 7:30 pm 
Portrait Of Theresa 
(1979) Color, 115 min. 
Pastor Vega, Cuba 
Shot in a fluid verite style, Teresa focuses on the stubborn survival of deeply ingrained traditions of machismo and sex­ism in post-revolutionary Cuban society by tracing the marriage of a Cuban woman in· valved in political and cultural groups of which her husband disapproves. Perhaps the most controversial film yet to come out of the remarkably frank Cuban cinema, Theresa created a sensation when it open­ed in Havana -as director Pastor Vega says, "We wanted to drop a bomb inside every home." Marital conflict is depicted in the film with compassion and authen· ticity, avoiding both the one-sided polemicism of political tracts and the soft· edged romanticism of Hollywood feminism a Ia Norma Rae and An Unmarried Woman. 



Friday, August 29, 19H6 -page 3
The Observer 
'\ \ 

\\ Ill \ \i l\• I"\ ·\( '"-.._: \\ )\ Yt lt \ t t 
l( •l ( ' )l ,,{\ 
1

l)t. 1li" s,)~t\ ''1\n 1. '<l( 
• 
~A 


Just a pinch 
Stanley Tannenbaum, of the lllinois Division of the Ameril·an Cancer Society, shows off an ad in Chicago 

·~ ~ 
~} '


_, :'. 
I 

earlier in the week which the ACS will use in their new campaign against the usc of smokeless tobacco. 
One ND trustee dies; two others elected 
Special to The Observer 
A member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees died over the summer while two others were elected to the board. 
Paul F. Hellmuth, secretary of the board, died on August 3 in Boston, Mass., where he was a retired senior managing partner in the legal firm of Hale and Dorr. 
A 1940 graduate of Notre Dame, he received a law degree from Harvard Law School and served in the U.S Army in Europe during World War II. 
He holds a 1965 honorary degree from Notre Dame. He was elected a trustee of the Uni­versity in 1960 and since 1967 had served also as a fellow of the University. 
One recently-elected board 

member is William Aramony, 
president of the United Way of 
America, the national association 


~ Burning the midnight I l" -. • ' • ' • . oil may be necessary. 
' .. " ' ' ' \
. . ' 

Burning the 2:00or 3:00 
or 4:00 AM oil is absurd. 
Especially when an HP calculator can get the answers you want-in time to get a good night's sleep. 
For insfance, our HP-15C Professional Scientific Calculator has more built-in advanced math and statistical power than any other calculator. Our HP-41 Advanced Scientific Calculators have even more potential. 
PG12602 
That's because there are better than 2500 software packages available for them-more than for any other calculator. 
There's even a special plug-in software package (we call it the Advantage Module) that's designed to handle the specific problems an engineering student has to solve in his, or her, course work. 
No wonder professionals in engineering and the physical sciences widely regard HP calculators as the best you can get. So check one out. Then, when your mother calls"to ask if you're getting enough sleep, you won't have to lie. By the way, if you want more information, just give us a call at 800-FOR-HPPC. Ask for Dept.658C. F~~ HEWLETT 
~~PACKARD 

for 2,200 United Way organiza­tions across the country. 
A native of Worchester, Mass., Aramony earned his un­dergraduate degree in business administration from Clark Uni­versity and his master's oegree in community organization from the Boston College Graduate School of Social Work. He came to his national position in 1970 after 17 years of local service in United Ways in South Bend, Co­lumbia, S.C. and Dade County, Florida. 
Sister Alice Gallin, executive director of the Association of Catholic Colleges and Univer­sities, was also elected to the board. 
Gallin received her bachelor's degree from the College of New Rochelle in 1942, a master's degree from Fordham University in 1944 and a Ph.d. from Cath­olic University of America in 1955. 
ND faculty honored with awards 
Special to The Observer 
Ten faculty members at Notre Dame were selected for special honors following the 14 I st com­mencement of the University. 
Father David Burrel, profes­sor of theology and philosophy, was the recipient of the Faculty Award for outstanding service to the University. A chaplain to University Village, he served 10 years as chairman of Theology and was active in Notre Dame's program in Jerusalem. 
The Thomas P. Madden 
Award for outstanding teaching 
of freshmen went to Terrence 
Akai, assistant dean of the Col­
lege of Engineering and associate 
professor of aerospace and me­
chanical engineering. Father 
Thomas· King, rector of Zahm 
Hall, is the winner of the Father 
John Pop Farley Award, named 
for the legendary rector of Sorin 
Hall and presented to a man or 
woman who personifies the rec­
tor as educator. 
John Howard Yoder, profes­
sor of theology, received the 
Reinhold Niebuhr Award, pre­
sented annually to one whose life 
and writings promote or ex­
emplify the theological and 
philosophical concerns of 
Niebuhr. The Grenville Clark 
Award, honoring a member of 
the community whose voluntary 
activities and public service ad­
vance the cause of peace and 
human rights was presented to 
Rev. Robert F. Griffin, C.S.C., 
University chaplain and newspa­
per columnist. 
Special Presidential Awards, 
honoring faculty who have given 
dedicated service over the years, 
were given to Peter P. Grande, 
associate dean of the Freshman 
Year of Studies; Rev. Michael J. 
Murphy, C.S.C., chairman of 
Earth Sciences; Robert F. 
O'Brien, director of University 
Bands for 34 years, and Drs. 
Thomas and Wendy Schlereth. 
He is a professor of American 
Studies and she is director of the 
Notre Dame Archives. 

Friday, August .N, II)H6 -page 4
Tbe 9beerver 


ND faculty 
Spct·ial 10 Th" Obsl'rwr 
Several Notre Dame faculty members received promotions last May. Three faculty members were appointed to endowed chairs. 
Robert Schuler, director of Notre Dame's Radiation Labora­tory, was named the Paul M. Henkels Professor of Radiation Chemistry; Robert Vecchio, chairman and professor of man­agement, became the Franklin 
D. Schurz Professor of Manage­ment, and Kwang-Tzu Yang, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, is the Viola 
D. Hank Professor of Engineer­mg. 
Recently-named full profes­sors, formerly associate profes­sors with tenure, arc Kenneth Jameson, economics; Peri Ar­nold, government and interna­tional studies; Jay Dolan, history; Richard Foley, philosophy Donald Kline, psychology; Eugene Ulrich, theology; David 
Cohn, electrical and computer,-------------------:.._________, 
engineering; Xavier Crcary and  
Marvin Miller, chemistry; Pit­Mann Wong, mathematics and  Observer News Reporters  
Randal Ruchti, physics.  Associ­ There will be o short meeting for oil Observer news reporters ot 7:30  
ate  Professors  Howard  Wet­ p.m. Sunday in Room 117 of Nieuwlond Science Hall. Attendance is  
tstein,  philosophy,  and  Mark  strongly encouraged.  

Searle, theology, were granted L------------------------------J tenure. New associate professors withr------------------------------. 
tenure, formerly assistant profes­sors, arc Stephen Fredman, En­glish; Sharon O'Brien, govern­ment and international studies; Donald Critchlow, history; Jorge Garcia, philosophy; Father Oliver Williams and Father 
David Tyson, management; Jef­frey Kantor, chemical engineer­ing; Paul Grimstad, biological sciences; A. Graham Lappin, chemistry, and Anand Pillay, mathematics. Father George Minamiki, a tenured assistant professor, was also named asso­ciate professor. 
Promotions ofspecial rcscard faculty included Asokcndu 
Mozumder, chemistry and radi­
ation laboratory, to Faculty fel­low, and Leonard E. Munstermann, biological 

Corby's 
continwdfrom~1 
"The tavern has been there for many years, -~'said Charles Hall. 
"Everyone acts crazy when they arc away from home, and it has been good for the students~ 
One of the brothers' proposals, to increase the num­ber of menu items, also drew some response. 
Flem Miller, a member of the board, asked Gourlcy,"How can you increase the kitchen in order to prepare more food when you have no fiKlm to expand in your physical area?" 
'"We have no intention to add to the building~ Gourley replied. 
"'We just want co increase the menu. With the additional tables, the bar will handle fewer people, which is the whole idea:' 
Correction 
The headline of the tuition increase story in yesterday's Ob­server was incorrect. Higher salaries and better benefits for faculty an,d staff accounted for almost all of the tuition in­crease, according to Thomas Mason, vice president for busi­ness affairs. 

The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Copy Editor DayEdftor Saint Mary•s Assistant Editor 

Those interested may come up to the Observer's offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or coli Mark Pankowski. Tnpp Boltz or Morg1e Kerstein ot 239-5303. 
...._____________________________! 



YOGI'S YOGURT
i 
Welcomes I NIYSMC Students! 

Bring a Friend Special 

l-2 mile from ND-ST. RD .B Across from Martin's 
• 


earn promottons 

sciences, to associate faculty fel­low. 
Library faculty promotions in­cluded J. Douglas Archer, Patrick Max and Jean Pee to as­sociate librarian, and Beth Pick­nally and Michael Slinger to as­sistant librarian. Slinger is associated with the law library. 
Special Pn1fcssional Faculty assignments 'ncludc Daniel Chipman, Guillermo Fcrraudi and Winifred Min-Yang Huo, all ot the Radiation Laboratory, to professional specialists; Gordon Hug and Jay LaVerne, Radiation Laboracory; Stephen Spiro, Snitc Museum; James Powell, ad­vanced studies, and Father George Wiskirchcn t(i associate professional specialist, and Sandra Vanslagcr, physical edu­cation, to assistant professional specialist. 
!:acuity members advanced to emeritus ranking were Margaret Cronin, psychological services, Msgr. Joseph Gremillion, In­stitute for Pastoral and Social Ministry; Theodore lvanus, li­brary; John Malone, marketing; Bernard Norling, history; Robert O'Brien, music and director of University Bands; Robert Otter, mathematics, John Philippsen, library, and Aleksis Rubulis, modern and d.assical languages. 
Honored for 2 S years of ser­vice were James •J. Carberry, chemical engineering; Michael J. Crowe, program of liberal studies; Kenneth Featherstone, architecture; Yusaku Furuhashi, associate dean ofCollege of Busi­ness Administration; Robert G. Hayes, chemistry; Randolph J. Klawitcr, modern and classical languages; Rev. Leon J. Mertcn­sotto, C.S.C., theology; Noel B. O'Sullivan, physical education; Daniel J. Pasco, chemistry; Mor­ris Pollard, Coleman Director of Lobund Laboratory; George E. Serciko, library; Donald C. Sniegowski, English; Robert H. Vasoli, sociology, and Rev. Joseph L. Walter, C.S.C., chair­man of preprofessional studies. 
and Tara O'Ll'ary (nl'ar) distribuw frl'shman dogbooks at Stl'pan cl'n!l'r recently. The dogbooks arc sure to hl'comc well­used rcfcrcJKC guide,. 

Lee•sRibs 
The Official Bears' Party Headquarters 
Special Hours: Friday 4-3:00am Saturday 11-3:00 am 

1132 South Bend Ave. 232-9311 
For a life of ministry an~ for service among the People of God the Congregation of Holy Cross announces the Profession of Perpetual Vows and ordination to the Order of Deacon 

For.further Information about the Holy Cross Community, contact: 
VocaHon Director P.O.BoxS.1 Notre Dame, IN~ Phone: (219) 239·6385 

~--..,--,-.,._r--------~----~ 
Friday, August 29, 1986 -page 5 
Group advocates shutting down 

all U.S. nuclear power 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The only way to protect the American public from atomic power risks is to shut down all U.S. nuclear plants, a Ralph Nader-affiliated organization asserted yesterday. 
The message from the ·oper­ating experience of U.S. reactors in 1984 and 1985 is clear: the plants are unsafe and their safety record continues to worsen, the Critical Mass Energy Project said in its 1984-85 Nuclear Power Safety Report, which it said was dedicated to the victims of the nuclear accident at Chernobyl in the Soviet Union. 
The likelihood and conse­
quences of an accident, so 
dramatically demonstrated by 
the Chernobyl disaster, strongly 
argue for rapidly phasing out the 
nations nuclear power program,' 
said the report written by Joshua 
Gordon. 

Critical mass is the amount 
of energy required to sustain a 
nuclear chain reaction. The Cri­tical Mass Energy Project was founded by Nader 12 years ago. 
Based on data from the Nu­clear Regulatory Gommission and other sources, the group contends 1985 was the worst year for U.S. nuclear safety. Among its findings, some of them released in May after the Cher­nobyl accident, were these: 
Ten serious accidents -abnormal occurrences ranging from high radiation exposures and loss of radioactive material to manage­ment problems affecting safety happened in 1985. 
2, 997 plant mishaps -licensee events ranging from minor t~g­nificant breakdowns in plant sys­tems or procedures -were re­ported to the NRC in 1985, a 23 percent increase over 1984. 
There were 764 emergency shut­
downs at U.S. plants in 1985, a 
28 percent rise over 1984. 
Nine plants accounting for 12 
percent of the U.S. nuclear 
power .generating capacity were 

plants 
indefinitely closed in 1985. 
Don Winston, a spokesman for the Atomic Industrial Forum, said he did not know how Cri­tical Mass could say the nuclear safety was at an all-time 'low in terms of safety last year. 
How many fatalities ·were there? ·Zero! How many cata­strophic breakdowns? Zero! In­juries to the public? Zero! Injur­ies to workers? Zero! (Radiation) overexposures to workers? None for the second year in a row, Winston said. 
Winston said the number of significant or serious events dropped from . 7 per reactor in 1984 to .53 irt 198 5 -the fourth consecutive annual decrease. He also said the forced outage rate due to technical problems fell from 13.6 percent in 1984 to II.7 percent last year. 
NRC spokesman Bob Newlin said abnormal occurrences num­bered five or six annually until 1982 and then rose to nine or 10 per year. 
IF YOUR BOOKSTORE DOESN'T 
CARRY SHARP CALCULATORS,
CALL AND COMPLAIN. 
Sharp calculators are designed to be first in their class. 
Our EL-533 financial calculator for example, has twenty memo­ries compared to just five for the competition. So it lets you do complex calculations like dis­

counted cash flow 
For those who prefer lab coats to pinstripes, there's .our EL-506A scien­.tific calculator. With 
formula entry 
93 scientific tunc­
it makes per­
even the most 
difficult calculations easy as pi. 
And because it's sleek, slim and 
stylish, you'll never look out of 
step as science marches on. 
The fact is, Sharp makes all kinds of ingenious little calcula­tors that can help get you through college. And help you pay for it. 
Because unlike college... they're surprisingly affordable. 
Calculators, Audio, AN Equipment. Banking Systems, Broadcast Cameras, Cash Registers, Computers and Peripherals, Copiers, Electronic Components, Electronic Typewriters, Facsimile, Medical Products, Microwave Ovens, Televisions, Vacuum Cleaners, Video Recorders. C 1986 Sharp Electronics Corporation, Sharp Plaza, Mahwah, New Jersey07430. 


FROM SHARP MINDS
COME SHARP PRODUCTS~ 
Toll from Chernobyl may reach 
75,000 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria-A Los An­geles bone marrow surgeon who treated some Chernobyl victims said yesterday the accident could cause as many as 75,000 cancer deaths worldwide over the next 70 years. 
Dr. Robert Gale told reporters that most delegates to an inter­national conference in Vienna agreed that as many as 25,000 cancer deaths linked to the Soviet nuclear plant disaster could oc­cur in the European part of the Soviet Union alone. 
An explosion and fire oc­curred April 26 at the No. 4 re­actor of the Chernobyl plant, 80 miles north of Kiev in the Soviet Ukraine. Two people were killed and at least 29 other Soviets have since died from injuries linked to the accident, which sent a ra­dioactive cloud over much of Europe and other parts of the 
world-.~­
Gale said the number of can­cer deaths worldwide as a result of the accident could range from l,000 _t<>=.7 5. 000. 
He said earlier yesterday that estimates of the death toll from Cherm~yl ate very broad, but health experts believe the truth will lie between the extremes. 
Peace
~ 

contl1rWtlfrom pt1ge 1 
which has not yet been com­pletely formed, Gilligan said. 
Although Garvey and Gilligan would not give the names of any of the Advisory Board members, former Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, former first Lady Rosolyn Carter,1 astronomer Carl Sagan and former secretary of Defense Robert McNamara have been mentioned as possible candi­dates. We cant announce it (the Advi­sory Board) until the whole thing is assembled,' said Garvey. 
"ie~~_O_i_D__t______________Fri_d~.-Augu-st29._19H{:-)-pa-gc6 
Freedom vs. Security 
My roommate remarked the other day, 
..Freedom is a difficult thing.~ And so it is. Not only docs the individu~l in a free society have w moniwr his or her own behavior with care, but the society as a whole must be ever vigilant in guarding the gray area where the rights of the in­dividual overlap with those of society. 
r r· Maura Mandyck 
r 
r 
frankly my dear
r 
r 
,.. A certain government organization is r 
treading in that gray area with an overly 
r confident stride. The President's Com­mission on Organized Crime is, in the words of country singer Tom T. Hall, attempting to hang all the people to get all the guilty. On March 2, the com­mission, acting in the name of national sc<:urity, stated that all federal employees will undergo drug resting. Well, certainly the government's arremp,t to clean irs own house is not overly objectionable. Bur the commission went on to recommend that private employers who have federal con­tracts also test their employees for drug use. If the employers refuse, they could lose sizable government contracts. And overzealous employers, even those with­out government contracts, arc jumping on the specimen bottle bandwagon. 
The media has christened the event Jar Wars. Peter Bensinger, former head of the Orug Enforcement ·Administration, asserts in a U.S. News and World Report article that the program is"saving money. lis saving lives:' Ira Glasser, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, calls drug testing grossly unfair. 
Obviously drug usc is something that employers would wish to discourage. The estimates of the toll that drug usc takes on Amcricart industry is enough to ruin a company president's day:, to say the least. Time magazine reports an estimate on lost worker productivity due to drug abuse as $.H billion a year. The incidence of job-related accidents is tripled by drug usc and ten times as many sick days are currently taken than presumably would be by drug-free employees. 
Bur the Constitution was not written in dollar signs or by consulting statistics. And there is much about overall, random drug testing of presumably competent employees that smacks of uncon­stitionality. The Fourth Amendment, which deals with unlawful search and seizure, requires probable cause. In other words, there must be tangible and reasonable proof that a person has vio­lated the law before he can even be ac­cused. Being handed a bottle by the federal government (you KNOW what to 

Summers arc not just a time for working and relaxing. They can also be a time for learning. 
This past summer I worked as an intern at the daily newspaper in my area, The Finger Lakes Times. I hoped to get some more experience to take back to The Ob­server in the fall. And I also wanted to make an important decision --go into jour­nalism after school or to stick with a fu­ture in government. 
Eric Bergamo 
her's to future days 
Well, -I did make the decision and it was to pursue a career in journalism after Notre Dame. That means that The Ob­server office on the third floor of LaFor­tune will be my scqlnd home. But what I ,-arne away with this summer will stay with me the rest of my life. 
Doonesbury 
When I first went back to work in May, 
was understandably apprehensive. I wondered to myself if I had what it took to be a good intern and if I could fit in with people who were older and had lhorc experience than I. 
I really didn't have to worry. The reporters and cdit<irs at The Times went out of their way to make me feel com­fortable. They would take time out to talk wj~t( me and to get to know me. I, in t6rn, learned much from them about writing and how to become better at it. 
I was lT(;atcd like a regular reporter b}' the editors and given story assignments to complete. They gave me the responsi­bility of reporting the news and I tried my best. I also learned that no matter how well one writes, no one is a perfect writer. In an article that may look all right to other people, there were numerous im­provements that I could make. 

YOUR Pea'!£CAN'TPt.MAJKJllleR
COMAN~, L£TM&LAY IT 
SIX YEARS SITTIN'A/U)(JNCJ IN
OtiTFORYOIJ: THeCfJMPAN't'5 
H0Nf1(J/?AN !JA~CAMPS! «!~
IWNN!N6 YOlJR SllJIUNO~ 

IU4NT>rJU mCJ<fJ5S THe80R/1E.R,
ANO THE81661/YWANTS 

~A I
Re;(J/..T5! "-.._ 

APPIJ,WSI£l'NAL 
:Which One Wins? 
do) is an accusation and ;in insulting one at that. As Randy Kemp, a bus driver in Seattle, told Time,"Youvc got to pave a search warrant w search my house. Well, my body is a lot rnore sacred than my home." 
I don't believe that the commission's intention is to trample on the Constitu­tion, or to begin immediate and nation­wide installation of tclcscrccns in private homes, or w surround the American people with posters reading in large, ominous letters:'Edwin Meese is watching you." I believe that their intentions arc admirable--the elimination of drug abuse and the often accompanying misery from the American worker's life. the decrease of drug traffic and organized crime in our cities, the dccr~asc of tragic accidents in the workplace, and the general better­ment of life for us all. But there has long been a human stubbornness against those people who arc doing something for our own good. The stubbornness has gone so far in this country as to create an entire government whose purpose is to protect the individual's right to be free of that government's control."'No one has a civil right to violate the law: says Bensinger. However, the govcrn~nt has no right to assume that we arc doing so. 
It is important that the unions already in existence work against random drug testing programs. It is important that state constitutions and local statutes arc written so as to make such government interference impossible. It is important that the influential white-collar workers defend their own rights by seeing that the blue-collar workers who frequently lack the means to protect themselves are not abused. And it is important that we do not let the ends justify the means when dealing with Consitutional rights. There arc some principles that arc more impor­tant than the most compelling prac­ticalities. 
Bensinger stated that drug testing is a clear signal that the company is serious about the hazards caused by drugs. Workers should now make dear that they will not tolerate federal or corporate tam­pering with their hard-won civil rights. 
President Reagan attempted to soothe dissent by saying~I have the same feelings that many people do about how far you can go _in invading the privacy of indi­viduals7 What Reagan and his <:ommis­sion don't understand is that rou cannot go very far at all. Indeed, you must not even begirt. 
Maura Mandyck is a senior English major and an assistant Viewpoint editor. 
Journalists give young writer a lift 
learned things that could not be words. I put things a little better in 
taught in any classroom but only by ex­periencing them. I went out and covered stories; I didn't just learn theories about 'writing from textbooks. I learned how to relate to people by interviewing them and asking them questions. 
Internships can be excellent learning experiences . The people arc there to help 1ou along. Just be open and friendly and one can learn so much. If you don't, the writing. 
To the staffofThe Finger Lakes Times: thank you for making me feel a part of the paper. Thank you for helping me when I needed help and thank you for sharing your experience with me. 
And thank you for being very good friends. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a junior government 
lessons of a lifetime just may pass you by. major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. When I went to the offices to pick up,------------------_, 
my last check, I said goodbye to those people with whom I worked this summer. I told them about what I planned to do this semester--studying and working at The Observer. I wanted to tell them how much I learned from them over the sum· mer, but I really couldn't put it into 
Garry Trudeau 
JEU..,Itorr !<NOll/. 15SUCA $TAMP. lfN'/l:R 7HE OLYMPICS. 
\ 

CAMPUS QUOTE 
Everyone m this world could be happy if they approached all life with a smile and a prayer. Thats Exciting! 
Vicky Rappold 
Class of 1989 July 29, 1986 

General Board 
_... The_Observer 
Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Controller. . . . . . . .... Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor....... ......... Scott Bearby Production Manager. . . .. Chris Bowler Sports Editor. . . . . . . . . . . ... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager. . ....... James Carroll The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor. . .. Mary Jacoby Advertising_Manager. . ..... Anne M.Culligan 
sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the ~amt Mary's Edttor. . . . . . . .... Margie Kersten Systems Manager. . . . . . Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately 
News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . .... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
;..

Accent 
Friday, August 29, 1986 -page 7 
Greeley's autobiography ts• a breath of fresh atr• 
Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a Lonely God 
I've been reading Father Andrew Greeley's autobiogra­phy, Confessions of a Parish Priest. The book astonishes me, a'i though I were just discovering a prophet who has been proclaiming his truth to us for years. 
He was ordained in 1954, the same year in whicho I was or­dained. We've been so busy hailing Dan Berrigan, Thomas Merton, Mother Teresa and Bruce Ritter as the authentic prophets of the 20th century tha~ we haven't been listening to a loud Irish voice from Chicago which often tells us things we don't want to hear. 
Several years ago, when Greeley was under attack by Cat­holics who disliked his novels, I had a strong feeling that this gifted priest didn't deserve the rough treatment he was getting. Catholics have a vicious habit of badmouthing priests whom they judge to have wandered off the reservation. Greeley was being thrown to the wolves and torn apart by rednecks who enjoy punishing priests with their con­tempt. In loyalty and justice, we should have come to his defense. Let it be said w our shame, we made him defend himself. 


His biography feels to me like a breath of fresh air. Faulkner, in his Nobel Prize speech, tells us that at the crack of doom, the voice of man will still be heard, talking and talking, as though nothing could silence him. Ifthe gates of hell prevail against the Churt·h, another voice could be heard, and it may be Greeley's voice as th~ last literate Catliolic in America. If we could believe Jlim, we would keep the wuchy­feely experiments out of the Church. 
Merton now sounds very dated, and it's bt>en a long, long time since Berrigan was of any real help. Greeley has stayed on deck w keep us honest. He's a priest in whom my generation should take pride. His story isn't easy to read when he goes on the defensive, yet it's plain to see he cares about the Ch4[ch. He makes me feel there was some­thing special about growing up Irish in Chicago. 
I spent the summer as a priest in Lmdon, on the lookout for tbe Lonely God. I could have joined the Charismatics or gone on a peace march. Neither would have brought me doser to the heart of light. 
A woman came in, praying the 
rosary as she talked to me. She 
said: If we can get five hundred 
Catholics together to honor Our 
Lady, she has promised to show 
us a miracle. Would you an­
nounce from the altar what Our 
Lady has promised? 

Miracles don't bring you closer 
to God. God didn't inspire me 
to go to Lmdon to act as sponsor 
for miracles. I went to England 
to see Dun Scotus' Oxford: 

Towery city and brancy between towers Cuckoo-echoing, bell-swarmed, lark-charmed, rook-racked, river-rounded ... this air I gather and I release. He lived on; these weeds and waters, these walls are what He haunted who of us all men most sways my spirit to peace; Of reality the rarest-veined unraveller... 
Patrick recited the poem by Hopkins, •:nuns Scotus Ox&ord; one July morning at breakfast, and nothing I saw at Oxford im­pressed me as much. Through Patrick, I saw throu!lh the eyes ofa whiskey priest down on his luck and out of the active ministry. 
Drunk or sober, he kept his heart and mind centered on God like a mystic obsessed with love and truth. Even when he was suffering from the d.t.s, he wou_ld go to the park in the dark­ness of night and pray until sleep came or until the sun rose, when 
lie would return to the church 
to recite the morning office. 
He was a liaintly alcoholic still nourished by the graces of his ruined priesthood. He had read all the holy books and seemed to remember everything. He would go to his job, working in a garden as a laborer, excited by a text out of the liturgical readings; and the rest of us lmew• that we had got­ten less out ofthe morning's Mass than Patrick had. 
Patrick's story is one of the stories of Gi>d out of which Greeley could write a novel. Physical miracles by which the lame dance are the least of God's mysteries; the world has not been turned around by all the crutches left at Lourdes. Patrick's is one of the moral miracles of the prodigal's return that makes you sing all day. God in His mercy is patient with Patrick. Much is forgiven him because he loves God very much, and I trust that at the end, love will bring Patrick home to heaven. 1 , 
Theology, left to itself as a body of knowledge, wouldn't be able to promise such a happy conclusion. God, writing a story, isn't afraid to give us a happy ending. As Greeley would say, I think, we should study the the­ology that comes out of story tel­ling. 
Half of the stories of God I brought home from England are still in progress. I met a couple of hard luck teenagers -one of them half in love with easeful death whom Patrick has promised to keep his eye on. Though he's an inactive priest, he can offer them love and en­couragement in the name of the Lonely God. 
Of all the priests I've met late­ly, Patrick is the most pastoral. I would like to see. him saying Mass agian, .though I suspect his superiors feel that he is better off as he is. I guess that's all right, as long as Patrick is happy. As Milton says, they also serve who only stand and wait. 
Good priests are like good poets: you know that you've met one when at least occasionally, the things that they say take the top of your head off. Time after time this summer, Patrick reminded me of things that left me in tears, and I hear Greeley saying old-f~hioned things that I thought priests had forgotten. 
I get talked down to as an out· of-date curmudgeon when I ob­ject to some of the same things Greeley objects to. Nobody talks down to him. They can't bully Andrew Greeley for his pre­Vatican II hangups. Even his critics get backed into a corner where they liave to admit he's one of the sharpest kids on the block. 
His autobiography serves as an aplogia pro zikl :wa. You don't have to be ordained 32 years to find' out he makes a lot of sen~e .. 
Loved every tninute of it 
BY A.P. JONES looked as though age was Could Be the Night" once aj!;ain 
feaiUres staff writer beginning to catch up with cased the concert's pace and him. One listen to his voice gave Reno a chane to show Rememljcr the a.m&•The and it was obvious not to his unbelievable vocal ability. Kid is Hot Tonight?•' Well, the judge a book by its cover; his A highlight of the set was kids were hot Wednesday voice was virile and powerful. the title track from the fourth night as Loverboy blew into Dokken closed with a alb~m:· L1vin Every Minute of the Notre Dame Athletic and pounding version of "'just Got It." As the first single from Convocation Center with Lucky" and after a short inter­the album, the song was well guest band Dokken, for a miSSion Lovcrboy hit the known to everyone at the ACC night of solid rock. stage. last night and the placed Lovcrboy, who was last in Loverboy opened with "The shook to the foundations as the South Bend area two years Kid is Hot .Tonight,"a great thousands of healthy voices ago on the Keep It Up tour, tune from their debut album, joined the band during the is now touring in support of and slid directly into •·Too chorus. Reno seemed to be in 
their most recent release Much Too Soon• from their his glory and urged the crowd L1vin Every Minute Of It;• latest effort.... Lady of the on to louder song. Lovcrboy was Iovin' every Eighties",md another new song "Turn Me L1ose ., seemed minute of it performing to ~Take Me to the Top followed. weak in comparison but was 
an enthusiastic, near capacity Drummer Matt Frenette still pleasing. The band closed crowd that cheered i" sup­gave a short but stirring solo with the rocking "'Working for port. in'Take Me To the Top"giving the Weekend -., from d~e album 
Fifteen minutes behind his fellow band mates singer Get Lucky and amidst cheers schedule, Dokken took the Mike Reno, guitarist Paul and roars left the stage. stage in response to a flurry Dean, bassist Scott Smith, and They were not about to get of headbangcr fists and pierc­keyboardist Doug Johnson a out that easily, though. The ing whistles. Lead singer Don chance to catch a breath. To people continued to yell and Dokken, guitarist George his credit, Frenette's solo was stamp ,their feet until LIVer-Lynch, bassist Jeff Pilson, and not pretentious, nor was the boy returned for a three song drummer Mike Brown roared play of any of the other band encore that iw:JiMkd the 
seven song set which included wbrk extremely well together its Over," and the show­their 1985 hit "Alone Again" and arc a solid unit. st<'fJper;'Queen of the Broken
... . . .
and an amazing guitar solo in Heaven m Your Eyes from Hearts." 
"Its Not Love." Lynch has been the Top Gun soungtrack gave Loverboy and Dokken hailed as one of the rock a change of pace but was im­greeted the enthusiastic world's great guitarists and mediately followed by"Hot crowd with equal force and the speed and case with which. Girls in L1vc~· ·· Do You Want exuberance. Judging from the he played last nighi: showed to Go Craly Tonight;' and fact that the ACC docs not just why. Luckv Ones" all of which are play host to many concerts, 
Sporting a pair of dark sun­powerful rock songs. last night's show was one glasses and wearing his hair Another standout track which definitely should not slicked back, Don Dokken found on the new album, "This have been missed. 
Bloom County's greatest 
ERIC M. BERGAMO dell Jones and his Banana Junior Assistant Features Editor 6000 as they hack into the files of Pravada to write the famous Call it Bloom Countys Greatest headline Gorbachev Sings Trac­
Hits.' tors: Turnip! Buttocks! 
Well, Berke Breathed named Meet Steve Dallas, lawyer and it Bloom County Babylon: Five eligible bachelor who strikes out Years of Basic Naughtiness. It is at both professions. the best of the strip's five year There is Cutter John with his run. starchair Enterpoop as he and his 
No one is immune from faithful crew head off to find The Breathed's comic wrath. His vic­Wild Sorority Girls of Planet tims include Ron Reagan, the Playtex. Prince and Princess of Wales, And ofcourse there is Bill The MTV, presidential elections, Cat (<xlp <x>p, ack ack!). The cat computers and spy scandals. who has fried his brain on 
Nobody gets out of Bloom cocaine; been cloned from genes County without being made fun in his tongue; had a torrid love of and lives. affair with Jeanne Kirkpatrick; 
Escorting the reader through and convicted of selling secrets this collection are the merry to the Soviets. Has anyone seen dcnizeQs of Bloom County. Garfield do anything this excit­
Opus. The most lovable, short ing lately? and big nosed penguin to ever The book is not all comic appear on the comic pages. His strips. A short account of The misadventures include running Great LaRouche Toad-Frog Mas­.. as the vice president ofthe Amer­sacre leads off the book. It tells ican Mcadow Party to being the of Soviet nuclear attacks, civil first ICBP (InterContinental Bal­defense Plocedures gone awry 
listic Penguin) to be launched and 'Portnoy the Groundhog
through a forty-five minute, members. As a group they newest hit" 'Dangerou.o;,'!."When· 
from a Soviet submarine. firing off an automatic rifle. Milo Bloom, the liberal­Bloom County Babylon should minded ten year-old who stands keep fans just rolling in the aisles 
-

for the highest standards of bad when they read it. It's a shame journalism at the Bloom Beacon. that all of the strips couldn't have 
Mike Binkley and his closet of been put into this book. Then anxieties full oflost Rajneesh cul­again, if Breathead had done tists, Nancy Reagan and Richard that, I wouldn't be getting any Nixon singing old Andy Gibb work done this semester. songs and as convention of PM Sometimes to keep your sanity Magazine hosts. here at Notre Dame, one should 
Enter the world of the com­slip away into the craziness of a puter hacker with Oliver Wen-place called Bloom County. 



Friday, August 29, 1986-page 8 
.. -
Sports Briefs 
Tickets arc still on sale for tomorrow's pre-season football game between the Chicago Bears and the Buffalo Bills at Notre Dame Stadium. The $18 tickets may IJe purchased at Gate 10 of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team has slated a meeting Monday at 4 p.m. in the ACC's football auditorium. Anyone interested in trying out should report to the meeting with a pen or pencil. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame varsity lacrosse team will hold a meeting Sunday at noon on Cartier Field for prospective players. Athletes are reminded to provide their own equipment. Fur­ther information may be obtained by contacting Head Coach Rich O'Leary at 239-5108. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus football team will hold a meeting on Green Field today at 4 p.m; Anyone interested in playing should bring proof of insurance. -The Observer 
Men's lnterhall Football rosters must be submitted by Sept. 3 with an accompanying fee of $40. Uniforms and equipment will be issued only after the rosters are in. Proof of insurance must also be provided. Further information may be obtained by contacting the NVA office at 239-5 100. -The Observer 
Women's lnterhall Football rosters must be submitted to the NVA office by Sept. 3 with the $35 entry fee. Team members must reside in the same hall and an insurance and consent form is required. Contact NVA for more information. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC gymnastic team is holding a mandatory meeting Monday at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
An organizational meeting for the Notre Dame Rugby Club and any new members is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. Monday in 127 Nieuwland. -The Observer 
Notre Da•e Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTllVG FORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, aU deluxe features 
Mo\'e in hefon: <) I) N6 and get one month free rent Offke at 120 ND Ave 134-G647 
CaUAaytlme 
WELCOME BACK 
Eckler-Lahey 
LUMBER I·Wh S.lulh l"r;111U111 .11 Br,,ad11;11 S.luth Bend. lndl;ll1;14hhl1 
l'l'lT IkliHT\ (Cl 
( ,1/ll(HI~ ,111<! ~lii'I'ClliiHJing 
,,rl',,~ 
Never Worse than Third Chris E,v-ert Lloyd in the U.S. Open 
15 Appearances (1971-1985) 6 Titles 3-time Runner-up 6-time semifinalist 83 wins of 92 matches (.902) 171 wins of 198 sets (.864) 1, 128 wins of 1620 games (.696) Last U.S. Open victory: 1982 
NFL 

mnti111mlfmm /MKf 11 
sive end Bruce Smith has five sacks, while linebacker Darryl Talley has three.. 
With the waiving of center Will Grant, fullbal·k BcM>ker McM>re, and tight end Eason Ram­son this summer, the Bills have at least three new starters on their offensive unit for 1986, and probably a fourth with the emer­gence of Kelly. 
Bills' punter John Kidd had an outstanding night against the Chiefs, averaging 49.3 yards on six kicks. The former Northwes­tern star had two kicks inside the 20-yard line and hit one of his kicks 58 yards. He is averag­ing 47.9 yards on eight punts this preseason. 
The Bears enter this game with a 3-1 preseason record and appear to be ready to defend their title this year. The watchword for the Bears is still defense, as that unit turned in another im­pressive preformance against the Cards. 
The defense is now under the tutelage of defensive ccM>rdinator Vince Tobin, a USFL transfer taking the place of Buddy Ryan. 
The Bears' defense limited St. L>uis to three first downs in the 
Source: U.S. Open Record Book Courtesy: Sports Features Syndicate Observer GraphioMark Weimholt 
second half and held them to 56 net yards after intermission. The Cards averaged I . 2 yards on I 0 first down passing plays. 
However, it was bad field po­sition that did the Bears in against St. Louis. On II posses­sions, the Bears started on average at the 21-yard line. Their furthest start was on their own 34-yard line. 
Walter Payton continues to be the mainstay ofthe ground attack with 47 yards on nine l·arries last week. The Bears were penalized only once in two previous games while committing nine penalties, six on offense, for 75 yards last week. 

subscribe and save 25% Crimes of the Heart 
()ctobcrH,9. 10.1 L 12 
Good 
December .1. 4. 5. 6, 7 
To Dance! 
March 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 
Macbeth 
April 29, 30, May 1, 2, 3 For subscriber information call 2.19-595 7. Weekdays I0-5 
----· ----------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, August 29, 1986-page 9 
Biathlon scheduled 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a biathlon, scheduled to take place. Sunday on St. Joseph's Lake. 
The event, originally scheduled for Saturday, gets under way at II a-.m. with a half-mile run and a two-mile swim. Indi­viduals may wish to take part in both segments of the biathlon, or a team competition will be of­fered in which two people divide the chores in half. Registration may•be done and further information may be obtained by con­tacting the NV A office today. 
Help the 
<4> 

March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects 

****************************** 
SAINTMARY'S COLLEGE 

COIH 375 Rehearsal and Performance Chamber Mystc 
aone act play by Arthur Kopit directed by Roberta N. Rude 
September 1 & 2 7:30-10:30 pm For scripts and additional 
Uttle Theatre -Saint Mary's College Information call the 
CoTh oftlce 284-4640 

COUI243 Da~e Repertory /Performance Workshop Prof. Dleckgrafe 
September 1 & 2 1:00 -9:00 pm For more information call the dan Regina Hall Dance Studio oftlce 284-4643-107 Moreau Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College 
****************************** 
tlEREMIAH SWEENEY 
Daily and Nightly Spedals with free munchies 
Monday thru Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 

ND soccer teatn 
faces tough fall 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer Returning at sweeper for Notre Dame is senior Pat Szanto. Feed 'em to the wolves. That Juniors Paul Gluckow and is the idea behind the upgrading Lowney and sophomores Dan of the Notre Dame soccer pro­Gordon and John Guignon will gram. fill the other defensive slots. Initiated last year, the team "The defense will 'have to lead organized an upgraded schedule. the wa.y,"said Grace:'The longer Second-year head coach Dennis they -keep us in the game, the Grace was then able to recruit a better chance well have of win­
. ..

number of talented freshmen mng. and thrust them into action im­Leading the way at midfield 
mediately. will be sophomore Joe 
This year another group of Sternberg. Sternberg led the freshmen will continue the team in scoring last year with I 0 upgrading process. The team goals and fivl! assists in 22 games. also will face seven teams which •! He just had a super freshman were ranked in the top-20 in the yearPnoted Grace:"He has taken nation last year. on a quiet leadership role on the 
'''I •think it was a good move~'· team.•· said Jrish co-captain Steve Joining Sternberg at midfield Lowney."The schedule is com­are senior Marvin Lett, sop­petitive enough to gain an NCAA homores Randy Morris and Tom berth." Gerlacher, and freshmen Kevin 
The team wastes no time in Kode and Rolfe Behrle. faeing top competition as it meets the Panthers of Grace is l<x>king for more of­Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Sun­fensive power from the for­day. The Irish will have to deal wards. Sophomores Bruce Tiger with youthful inexperience as McCourt and Morris will lead the they take on this nationally­attack. Last season they com-. ranked team. bined for II goals and eight as­
...t'm a little worried about sists. The team also recently freshman jitters at the beginning, added Pat Murphy, a sophomor~ of the season,' said co-captian transfer from Creighton, whose Jim Flynn. Our teams experience program folded after last season. has to come through while the Grace plans on keeping 25 to youth comes along. • 26 players on the varsity squad. 
The defensive third of the He noted that the bench will be field will be the most experi­deep, with a large number of enced for the Irish. Seniors Hugh people who can step jn and play. Breslin and Flynn return to mind In addition to Wisconsin­the nets. Breslin set an Irish Milwaukee, Notre Dame will single-season record last year face Evansville, last year's NCAA with I 56 saves in 21 games. champion, Indiana, Connec­Flynn compiled a I. 30 goals­ticut, Penn State and Florida In­against average in three appear­ternational. All were ranked in ances last season. the top-20 last year. 
Bias case heats up 
Associated Press 
Attorneys Thomas Morrow The investigation into the and William Cahill Jr., in papers death ofMaryland basketball star 
filed late Wednesday, charged Len Bias has stirred controversy 
Marshall engaged in a consistent over the prosecutor's conduct, 
pattern of misconduct before the while top University ofMarylarid 
grand jury, by commenting officials arc standing by basket­
publicly about evidence gathered ball coach Lefty Driesell. against Tribble. Attorneys for Brian Tribble, 
University Chancellor John who has been. indicted by a Slaughter said he won't make a Prince Georges County grand decision on Driesell's future until 
jury, are asking that all charges 
the grand jury presents its report against their client be dropped, 
next month. Athletic Director claiming comments by State's At­
Dick Dull has released dlicu­torney Arthur Marshall Jr. have 
ments showing Driesell has ad­prejudiced the case against their vocated drug testing for his client. 
players for s~veral ~~· __ 
LaundryAND DRY CLEANING CHANGE HOURS St. Michaels Laundry and Dry Cleaning departments hove InCreased their business hOUrS for the 1986-87 er-r,,...,..,,. year. Beginning Monday, 25August 1986, the Office (Door 1), student bur.1dle pick-up (Door 3), and the dry cleon1ng foc11ity (Door 6) will be open from 7:30A.M. to 4:30P.M. Monday through Friday. 

Monday thru Saturday 
Phone 277-6368 
itbeNewUorklimes
10:00 pm ·Close 
6402 Grape Road Across from university 
All the news that's
Park Mall on Grape Road 
fit to print Call Rick Reuter at 283-4303
Join our "Around the World with 80Beers"Club 


Friday, Augus~ 29,_ 19H6 -page 10 
Top seeds advance 
1986-87 Notre Dame Basketball Schedule 
Nov. 9 (Sun.) INTRASQUAD GAME NOTRE DAME 6:30 EST Nov. 14 (Fri.) LJUBlJANA (Yugoslavia) NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Coca-Cola NIT Classic 
Nov. 21 (Fri.) WESTERN KENTUCKY at NOTRE DAME Nov. 24 (Mon.) Quarterfinals at campus sites Nov. 2H (Fri.) Semifinals at Madison Square Garden in New York Nov. 29 (Sat.) Finals at Madison Square Garden in New York 
Dec. 2 (Tuc.) INDIANA NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Dec. 4 (Thu.) CORNELL NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Dec. 6 (Sat.) BRIGHAM YOUNG NOTRE DAME 1:00 EST Dec. II (Thu.) EASTERN MICHIGAN NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Dec. 20 (Sat.) VALPARAISO NOTRE DAME I :00 EST Dec. 29 (Mon.) CENTRAL_!fiCHIGA~J'lOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Dec. 31 (Wed.) Maryland College Park, MD 7:00 EST 
Jan. 3 (Sat.) Pennsylvania Philadelphia, P A I :00 EST Jan. 4 (Sun.) Yale New Haven, CT TBA }an. 10 Csat.) DePaul Chicago, IL 7:30 CST Jan. 12 (~~>n.) Creighton Q_ma_ha,_l'•IE 7:35 CST Jan. 17 (Sat.) WEST~IRGINIA NOTRE _!)~ME I :00 EST Jan. 24 (Sat.) UCLA Los Angeles, CA 12:00 PST Jan. 27 (Tue.) DAYTON NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST 
Jan. 29 (Thu.) MARQUETIE NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST 
Feb. I (Sun.) NORTH CAROLINA NOTRE DAME 1:00 EST Feb. 4 (Wed.) LaSALLE NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Feb. 6 (Fri.) Vanderbilt N.;;hvili~;TN-7:30 CST 
Feb. 8 (Sun.) Kansas Lawrence, KS I :00 CST 
. Feb. IS (Sun.) DUKE NOTRE DAME I :00 EST Feb. 16 (Mon.)WAGNEi NO~~~DAME 7:30 EST Feb. 18 (Wed.) Fordham New York, NY 9:05 ES:r Feb. 21 (Sat.) Utah Salt Lake City 7:35 MST Feb. 25 (Wed.) DePAUL NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Feb. 28 (Sat.) Marquette Milwaukee, WI 7:30 CST 
Mar. 2 (Mon.) BROOKLYN COLLEGE NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Mar. 5 <Thu.) MIAMI (Fla.) NOTRE DAME 7:30 EST Mar. 7 (Sat.) Dayton Dayton, OH 2:00 EST 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Top-seeded Martina Navratilova and No. 3 Steffi Graf advanced into the third round of the U.S. open Tennis Champio~ships Thursday with straight-set victories. 
Seeking her third women's singles title in four years, Nav­ratilova downed Betsy Nagelsen 6-2, 7-5, while Graf crushed Hungary's Andrea Temesvari 6­1, 6-0. 
Czechoslovakia's Ivan Lend!, the defending champion and men's top seed, headlined the night session, facing Robert 

Seguso. 
The third day of play in America's premier tennis event got a late :.start because of 
· I t . Th .

mormng-ong rams. e ram caused IH scheduled matches to be postponed, including second­round singles matches between fourth-seeded Stefan Edberg of Sweden and Kevin Curren, and India's Ramesli Krishnan and Mexico's Leonardo Lavalle. 
Paul Annacone, who shocked four-time U.S. open champion John McEnroe on opening day Tuesday, was eliminated in the 
second round Thursday by 
Aaron Krickstein, who battled 
back from a two-set deficit to 
win 4-6, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4). 
Other men posting second­round victories Thursday in­cluded eighth-seeded Henri Leconte of France, No. I 5 Brad Gilbert and Johan Krick, a two­time Australian Open champion who reached the semifinals ofthe 
U.S. open in 1980. 
Ir women's play, fifth-seeded Pam Shriver advanced into the diird round along with No. 8 Bonnie Gadusek and No. 15 Kathy Jordan. 

The Notre Dame football team prepares to battle it out at the line of scrimmage in one of this week's fall practices behind the ACC. The Irish will be using the next two weeks to solidify the 
Irish 
mntiwml Ji'om p(tj{e 12 
being headed by a member of the coaching staff. 
Holtz did get to see some good question mark for this season, has come back strong the past two days in practice, while the freshman Johnson has asserted himself as a potential candidate for some playing time at tailback behind leaders Mark Green and 

~$: You'Jl se~ 
1:7 thesavmgs. 
CONTACT LENSES 


•Softmate Daily or Extended Wear 
$3 9 9 8 

Contact Lenses • 
Daily wur Powen +7.00 10 ·12.00 Extended we~r Powen plmo 1o ·6.00 per pair 
•Tinted Contact Lenses 2 Pairs for Daily or Extended Wear 
$99.98 
Bausch .l Lomb Sa1uri!Tinu or American llvdron 

An eye exam is required at the time of purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not be combined with any other offers or discounts. Offer ends September 27, 1986. 
"Our ey~ear prices are tM lowest in lndiaM, and our eye care quality is IUISwpossed. Thai's a promise from the doctor." 

1111 E lreiand Road•.•291-4000 in the Broadmoor Plaza 506 W McKinley ...... 2S8-SOOO in the K-Man/Manin Center 

things at the end {)f practice when the offensive and defensive units each worked a series of plays from the to-yard line. Nosetackle Marty Lippincott and cornerback Mike Haywood led one defensive unit in shutting out quarterback Steve Beuerlcin and the No. I offense until flanker Tim Brown hauled in an eight-yard touchdown pass on the eighth play. Then Ol!tsidc linebacker Cedric Figaro and 'cor­nerback Troy Wilson did the same ro quarterbacks Terry Andrysiak and Steve Belles. 
. But Holtz was especially 
pleased with the play of running backs Hiawatha Francisco and _Anthony Johnson, each of whom reached the endzone against the No. 3 defense. Francisco, whose knee problems had made him a 

D'juan Francisco. 
"As I sec it at this present time, those four will be the ones playing tailback 'for us," said Holtz.• Hiawatha looked good, but hes got some fresh legs be­cause. hes only been out here two days." 
One player who may feel like he's only been out for two days when in fact he's been practicing all year is sophomore Corny Sout­hall. While Southall appeared all spring to be a top candidate to inherit the backfield vacancy left by the graduation of Allen Pinkett, the Irish coaching staff decided to move the former high­school defensive standout from tailback to strong safety, where he will back up veteran Brandy Wells and injured sophomore George Streeter. 
"T~c mJury to Streeter (hamstring) bad a lot to do with it," said Holtz~ We felt we needed to solidify that position." 
•At first I was a hi~-disap­pointed: noted Southall.11 1 en­joyed carrying the ball. But I was 
highly recruited out of high 
school as a defensive back, and 
t:n comfortable there. I felt that anything I could do to help the team, I would do. Right now Jm a little behind the other guys, but I'm working hard to catch up and the guys arc all really hcl­pmg me. 
Southall will not be alone in that situation, as Holtz and his team labor to make the finishing touches.
.... 

Wevc got some bumps and bruises, and our legs are tired, " noted Holtz."Wc dont have the quickness we normally have. But were trying to do what we feel we really need most to work on." 
Fortunately for Holtz, there arc these upcoming two weeks before the 19H6 college football season begins for his team. 
-~--~~-----tftllltft_tft__,,_ooH-HIIHIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
PR~:~~ni~~o~~ETY I 
i 

interested in law school I 
Scptcrnbcr I, 19H6 
7:30 p.m. 

Memorial Library Auditorium 
IMPORTANT LSAT INFORMATION AVAILABLE 
i

Attendance mandatory for Seniors who plan to attend law school 
..IIINIHHI.........H.t.HI.........IHI.........IIIIIIIHIIHIIIItlllllllllllllllltiMIHtiHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII• 

~~~C3L~------------------------------------------------F-rid-ay•,•A•ug.us.·t-29•'•19•H6•--P_~_c_ll

Bloom County Berke 
"For the love of -... Somethln's been messln' with these chickens!" 



The most exciting

fewhours 
you'Dspendallweek. 
Run. Climb. Rappel. Navigate. Lead. And develop the confidence and skills you won't get from a textbook. Enroll in Army ROTC as one of your electives. Get the facts today. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
Interested? Lieutenant McKnight Call Lieutenant Flannigan 239-6264 
RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING 


The Dally Crossword 
ACROSS 1 State of lnaenalblllty 

5 Beginning 10 Pod dwallera 14 Neat aa­15 Type of horae 16 Yen 17 Thwart all 
battera 20 Restraining 

rope 21 Pro­22 Guided 23 Small billa 25 Paving block 27 VIllain's look 30 Cigar remains 32 Jaunte 36 Succeaalul 
office seekera 37 Despicable 39 Uranus or 
Venus 40 Perform a baseball feat 43 Forever 
poetically 44 Sunlit periods 45 Whole thing 46 Canary-like 
bird 47 Study 48 cauae to heal 49 Baseball team 51 Gral­54 Reply: abbr. 57 Pit lor water 59 Suitable lor 
agriculture 63 Do well at the 
plate 66 By any chance 67 Comic Soupy 68 Facility 69 Softly moist 70-noua 71 Woodland 
creature 
DOWN 1 Officer: abbr. 2 Ron Howard 
TV role 

3 Diamond glove 4 Means of stability 
I I  
{.  
C1986 Tribune Media Sa~. 1111:.  
All Rights Rasarved  
5 Kegler's term  
6 Sunburn  
7 Acidity  
8 Go over old  
stuff  
9 Hackneyed  
10 Sty Inhabitant  
11 Latin abbr.  
12 Peak  
13 Laan-to  
18 Barnyard mom  
19 Tale carriere  
24 Eul'. region 26 Hunter's Item  
27 Citrus fruit  
28 Growing out  
29 Gravelly ridge  
31 Nasty  
33 Dental filling  
34 Bell sounds  47 Lower In  55 Church area  
35 Manner 37 Male-like  dignity 48 Gaaollne type  56 Ragout 58 Skin  
38 Perla summer  50 RN word  60 Scot. hlllaide  
39 Work at steadily  52 Rest a while 53 Sea bird  61 -ma)eate 62 Ger. river  
41 Dublin's land 42 Kitchen Items  54 Between the aheeta  64Attempt 65 Pronoun  

~--~---------­
---------------'---__..~---~----­
) 
~---------------------------·.------~ .-~. ~ ~ ~-------­
-<"'"-
Seorts 

Former Irish fcK>tball standout Greg Bell returns defending Super Bowl Champion Chicago Bears. 
to Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow as a Buffalo Mike Szymanski previews the contest at right. 
Bill in the NFL team's preseason game against the 
•

Changes tnark grid practtces 
By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Spurts Editor 

The 1986 college football season may officially have begun, but it's still two weeks away for the Notre Dame football team. And that suits Irish football coach Lm Holtz just fine. 
The first-year Notre Dame mentor, whose squad dosed out its second full week of practices yesterday since returning for the fall semester, could no doubt·use th~ extra time to put the final pieces of his team together. In fact, there's not much talk yet of opening-day opponent Michigan on the practice fields behind the ACC. 
'" I felt the last few days we had to stress fundamentals and get better there," said Holtz."'Right now, were also working at de­termining whos close to being ready and who's blending in the quickest. And I think we are get­ting better. 
'"We are basically just trying to assemble a team. Yet at the same time were trying to get a second team together, particularly in the offensive line." 
Holtz will get a gCK>d chance to review his squad this after­noon when the Irish take part in a full scrimmage on Cartier Field. The scrimmage, like all other fall practices this season, will be closed to the public. 

This afternoon's scrimmage should give Holtz the opportu­nity to see his entire offensive and defensive units working to­gether. Most of the practice time this week has been used to work on the mechanics of the posi­tions, with the squad splitting into groups by positions and 
see Irish, page 10 
Friday, August 29, 1986-page 12 
ND alutnni return for NFL contest 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Assistant Spurts Editur 
Professional fcK>tball VJStts Notre Dame Stadium Saturday as the World Champion Chicago Bears face the Buffalo Bills, a team lcK>king w rebuild around former USFL star quarterback Jim Kelly. The game will provide a lcK>k at former Notre Dame players now in the NFL. 
Both teams close out the 1986 preseason for the benefit of the 1987 International Summer Spe­cial Olympics, which will be held at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Tickets are still on sale at Gate 10 of the ACC for $18. 
The game could become a showcase for this season's most promising quarterbacks in the Bear's Jim McMahon, Mike Tomczak, and the Bills' Kelly. Both McMahon and Kelly are ex­pected to play at least one half. 
Despite not having McMahon in the 14-7 loss to the St. Lmis Cardinals last week, the Bears got a fine performance from Tomczak, an Ohio State graduate who completed 8-of-17 passes for 165 yards, one touchdown, anc.l two interceptions. 
Kelly, on the other hand, will be playing his first game with the Bills. He already has made an impact on ticket sales amoung Buffalo fans as 4,000 season tick­ets and 5.~.000 individual-game tickets were sold for the opener against the Jets in a week. 
Both the Bears and the Bills share a Notre Dame homecom­ing of sorts. Bear safety Dave Duerson, and guard Tom Thayer graduated in 1982, while run­ning back coach Johnny Roland was an assistant under Dan Devine in 1975. 
Bills' running back Greg Bell 
and linebacker Tony Furjanic, 
the Bills' 8th round pick this year 
who led the Irish last year with 
147 tackles, will play. Bell, who 
gained 870 yards on I 58 carries 
at Notre Dame, will figure 
prominently into the Bills' of­
fense after the Joe Cribbs trade 
earlier \n the preseason. 
"Grejt is one ofthe premier run­
ning backs in the NFL: 'said Bills' 
first•year head coach Hank Bul­
lough."He has very good quick­
ness, gcKK.I l>ize, and strong 
blocking. He is better at catching 
the ball and is a very elusive run­
ner afterward." 
Bell is lcK>king forward an ex­
panded role in the revitalized 
Bills' offense. 
"We will nave a fairly decent 
double threat and a wide-open 
offense this season," said Bell. 
The pressure on Kelly may fall 
back a little on me. We had a 
lackluster running game last year 
and were not a great ball control 
team. We will be able to pick 
and <.'hcK>se how to get c.lownfielc.l 
.. 
now. 
"We tame into camp with a 
winning attituc.lc. The mec.lia has has hypec.l (the signing of Kelly). ·He is hailcc.l as a savior, but he 
is only one man out of II:· 
Furjanic is working harc.l to 
become part of the new Bills' 
defense this preseason. 
"He is very intense anc.l ha~ 
been c.loing a great job for us:• 
saic.l Bullough:'He is a liulc closer 
to making our team after playing 
quite a bit last Saturc.lay.'' The 
Bills rcwrc.lec.l eight sacks against 
the Kansas City Chiefs last week, 
and have not allowed a tom·h­
down pass all preseason. Defen­
sec NFL, page H 

Lessons emerge from mishaps 
Consider two recent stories that have been in the headlines during the course of the past few weeks. 
Notre Dame basketball player David Rivers is seriously wounded in an automobile accident early on the morning of August 24th. Rivers is still in the hospital for the next I 0 days to two weeks and it's anyone's guess as to what kind of shape he'll be in when the hospital releases him. 
Former Maryland basketball player Len Bias, the second pick in this year's NBA draft, dies of a cocaine-induced heart attack early one June morning scKm after the draft. What promised to be a highly successful career was suddenly snuffed out. 
The first of these stories is a tragic accident, but Rivers should be able to continue his playing career. Rather than worrying about that, however, Irish head coach Digger Phelps was more concerned about Rivers keeping up with his sch<K>Iwork and main­taining his eligibility. And if Rivers wears his seatbelt more often after this accident, he will have corrected a mistake that worsened the accident. The second of these stories is a senseless waste. For Bias, it's tcK> late to correct any mistakes. Reportedly not a drug user before the night he died, Bias made the mistake of trying cocaine, and it cost him his life. Anyone who saw Bias score 25 points here in last season's game knows what kinc.l of a player Bias was and might have been in the NBA. 
Worse than Bias' death is the aftermath. Inves­tigations by police and a granc.l jury have uncovered allegations of drug use on. the Maryland squad and even tampering with ·urinalysis samples. Soon after Bias diec.l, it was revealed that of the five courses Bias began his last semester, he dropped two and 
Dennis Corrigan 

Sports Editor failed the remaining three. Terps head coach Letty Driesell was investigated on allegations that he had encouraged his players to cover up the events of the night of Bias' death. Driesell was cleared of any wrongdoing, but the team's academic advisor quit by saying that Driesell didn't place enough emphasis on his team's performance in the classroom. 

Clearly, the time has come for action not only on the college level, but also on the high school and professional levels as well. How professional athletes can be so adamantly against drug testing is bewil­dering, especially when so many careers and lives are ruined by drugs. Steve Howe springs to mind in the former category while Don Rogers sadly fits into the latter. Invasion of one's privacy seems to be a small price to pay ifsomeone on drugs can be helped. 
The NCAA has announced that it will administer drug tests this year to all participants in post-season football games and all NCAA championship events. In the wake of the Maryland case and the scandal at Virginia in which three football players -were in­dicted in a cocaine-distribution case, perhaps the NCAA should reconsider its position and require random testing in all events. 
The second area in need of help is education. Except for schcK>Is such as Notre Dame, Duke or Virginia, the term student athlete is largely a mis­nomer. That's why the advent of NCAA Proposition 48 is welcomed. While it's unfortunate that athletes such as Notre Dame's Tony Rice, John Foley and Keith Robinson won't be seeing action this year, in the long run they should be better for it. When considering that the 1Kids of anyone drafted by the NFL in the fifth to sevl!nth rounds is only about 5·4 in favor of making the team (a ratio that falls off sharply for anyone drafted in lower rounds), an ath­lete's best interests are served by getting a college edu<.·ation. To further this end, the NCAA should consider a return to freshmen ineligibility. In recent years that would have meant freshmen named Rivers and Pinkett wouldn't have gained early fame. On the positive side, the adjustment to college is hard enough without having to juggle an academic schedule with a practice schedule. 
On the high schcK1l level, Proposition 48 should force high schools to prepare their athletes for exams such as the SAT and ACT and take a solid core curriculum. Some may argue that Notre Dame had no business in accepting athletes ineligible under the proposition's provisions, but almost anyone will say that some people don't test as well as expected. The threesome of Rice, Foley and Robinson deserves every fair chance of succeeding at Notre Dame with­out anyone making snap judgements. 
What it boils down to is that it's time for high schools to stop aning as factories to the colleges, and colleges to stop being minor leagues for the pros. Athletics are a large part of today's university. Still, athletes and coaches shouldn't lose sight of univer­sity's main objective of education. 








