Hostages freed -page 3 

VOL XX, NO. 71 

Negotiators optimistic as arms talks get underway 
~lated Prc:M 
GF.NEVA -The chief Soviet 
negotiator said yesterday that the 
first order of business for the new 
round of arms talks is dealing with a 
Kremlin proposal intended to rid 
Europe of nuclear missiles. 
After a 1 0-week break the U.S.­Sovict arms negotiations resumed yesterday, one day after Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev put forth a plan for eliminating nuclear weapons in several stages by the year 2000. 
Wa~hington welcomed Gorbac­hev's proposals · but cautiously. The Reagan administration expressed concern because he linked arms reduction to suapping the Strategic Defense Initiative, the U.S. research project on space-based defense commonly called "Star Wars." 
The opening session at the Soviet Mis.~ion began on an optimistic note. Chief U.S. negotiator Max Kampel­man said his team was "anxious" for an accord and his Soviet counter­part, Viktor Karpov, expressed hope of a "creative search for a solution." 
Star Wars has been a major stick­ing point in the talks since this series began last March. Three rounds have produced no sign of progress on the issue. 
Karpov told reporters before the 
U.S. delegation arrived, "the Star Wars program is very dangerous and we feel that banning of that program is very Important for reducing arms, first ofall nuclear arms. 
"Blame the United States, not me," for the superpower disagreement on Star Wars, he said. The Soviet Union claims the plan is offensive, not defensive, and will extend the arms race 10 space. 
The United States says it is com­m"itted to the Strategic Defense In­itiative and does not intend to scrap it. The Reagan administration con­tends that a defense system in space would make the world more secure. 
Karpov said the "direct task" of the negotiators is to deal with the 
See TALKS, page 4 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Special to The Observer 
Ann Titus, a 1980 graduate of Notre Dame who has served the Hunger Action Coalition and the Food Pantry Program in her native Pittsburgh area, will receive the 1986 Dr. Thomas Dooley Award of the Alumni Association. 
The award is named for Notre Dame alumnus Dooley and is presented to a graduate ofthe last I 0 years who has engaged in extraordi­nary service for the benefit of his or her fellowmen. 
A theology major at Notre Dame, Titus joined the Hunger Coaltition as a volunteer shortly after gradua­tion. In the spring of 1982, she became the first Vista volunteer for the Food Pantry Program, a series of satelllte food banks in Allegheny County assisting families and in­dividuals from eastern Ohio to central Pennsylvania. The organiza­tion increased its aid from one mil­lion pounds of food distributed in 1981 to more than seven million pounds this year, and has a goal of one million pounds per month for needy families with the addition ofa new warehouse. · 
Titus is studying for a master's degree at Carnegie-Mellon Univer­sity and plans to use her new management and business tech­niques in future projects of the program, one of which uses county parkgrounds to grow produce for eligible families. 
Directors of the Alumni Assocaia­tion will be joined by former board 
members  at  the  annual  winter  
meeting  beginning  Jan.  27  on  
campus.  

The award, a miniature replica of the Dooley statue recently installed at the Grotto, will be presented to 

Space shuttle's bad luck continues 
"->elated PTc:M 
SPACE CENTER, HOUSTON-Rain and fog in Florida kept luckless Columbia from landing yesterday, and NASA said failure to bring the shuttle back to its home port today would force: cancellation of a March tllght devoted to Halley's Comet. 
The astronauts, who endured a record seven delays before finally launching their mission Sunday, were instructed to aim toward a 
7: 1 2 a.m. EST landing today at the Kennedy Space Center. 
But National Aeronautics and Space Administration officials said the Florida weather forecast was un­certain and it was expected to be even worse tomorrow. 
Officials said If the prospects ap­peared dim for Columbia being able to land in Florida today or tomor­row, it would be diverted to Ed­wards Air Force Base in California, landing there at 8:39am. EST today. 
Columbia's planned landing yes­terday was cancelled just 19 minutes before mission commander Robert Gibson was to trigger rocket engine firings that would drop the winged craft out oforbit. 
The wave-off yesterday was the eighth operational delay for Colum­bia's flight. Launch of the mission was postponed seven times over 25 days before it lifted off last Sunday. The delays put NASA into a tight schedule bind to meet the agency's goal this year oflaunching 15 shuttle flights, including the comet study mission. 
Columbia is scheduled to be launched again on March 6, carrying into orbit an an array of instruments focused on Halley's comet. The launch date was selected to coincide with the comet fly-by of Soviet and Eu~opean satellites. 

Officials said if Columbia is forced to land in California, it will take about six days to return the spacecraft to Kennedy. This would not leave enough time to prepare Columbia for the March 6 launch date. As a result, the Halley's comet observation flight would be can­celled, NASA said. 
Rep. Bill Nelson, D-Fia., is flying on Columbia as a congressional ob­server. Others on the crew are Charles Bolden, Steve Hawley, George Nelson, RCA engineer Robert Cenker and astronaut Franklin Chang-Diaz, the first Hispanic-American to fly in space. 
Titus at the Friday evening banquet Jan. 31. She will be accompanied by her parents, who live in Pittsburgh. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh and Executive Vice President Father EdmundJoyce will participate in dedication ceremonies for the new Dooley statue at 2 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 1. 
A videotape record of the dedica­tion will be shown during the halftime of the Notre Dame­Marquette basketball game begin­ning at 4 p.m. in the ACC. 
Rudy Torrini, a 1958 graduate of Notre Dame and art faculty member at Fonbonne College in Dooley's native St. Louis, completed the statue as a gift to the University with financial help from alumni and friends of Notre Dame in the St. Louis area. 
FRIDAY,JANUARY 17,1986 


Saint Mary's yearbooks arrive after extended wait 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
The long-awaited 1984-85 Saint 
Mary's yearbook, the Blue Mantle, 
will be distributed to Saint Mary's 
students within two weeks, accord· 
ing to Pam Demers, the yearbook's 
editor-in-chief. 
Demers blamed the printing delay 
on production problems, mis­
management of resources, deadline 
over-runs and a lack oforganization. 
All of these problems can be at­
tributed to last year's Blue: Mantle 
staff, she said. 
"I had no idea when we'd get 
them (the yearbooks) back. With all 
the problems the staff had last year, 
it was almost impossible to tell," 
Demers said. "I thought they would 
be ready when we came back in Sep­
tember," she added. "What hap­
pened was that last year's editor 
took on too much, and was left to do 
all the work herself. She had very 
little support from her staff," said 
Demers. 

The Student Activities office has been receiving complaJnts from stu­dents about when the yearbooks Will be: distributed, Demers said. She: explained that students wishing to order the yearbooks have the cost added into their first semester's tui· · tion, so the: yearbooks are paid for in advance. 
"People have: paid for it, and should be wondering where it is," said Demers. 
Students, who have been waiting several months past the expected September arrival date, said they were not informed ofthe reasons for the delay. When told of the: year­books' arrival, several students reacted with surprise. 
"Are we going to be getting them? I know we paid for It," said junior Lori Bernat. 
Junior Anna Gaffney added, "We: haven't heard anythingabout them.l think everyone forgot." 
Students wlll receive a letter ex­plaining where: and when the year­books will be distributed, Demers said. 
see BOOKS, page 3 


Six more moons discovered around planet by Voyager 2 
PASADENA, Calif. The: Voyager 2 spacecraft has dis­covered six more small moons around the planet Uranus, dou· bling to 12 the number ofmoons now known to orbit the seventh planet from the sun, NASA said yesterday. 
Scientists believe Voyager may find as many as 18 additional moons, which would raise the to­tal to 30 and "mean that Uranus has more moons than any of the: other planets," said Ellis Miner, deputy Voyager project scientist atJet Propulsion Laboratory. 
Saturn now holds the: solar sys­tem record, with 20 moons, followed by Jupiter with 16, he: said. 

The six newly discovered moons are clustered at roughly the same distance from the: planet, which "possibly implies they arc: a result of a larger satelllte that broke up," Miner said. 
That theory will be: bolstered if Voyager 2's television cameras finds that the moons have: ir­regular shapes when it makes its closest approach to Uranus and its moons and rings onJan. 24, he added. 
The Observer Friday, January 17, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
An earthworm fraud case ended yesterday when two men pleaded guilty in Springfield, ill., to federal mail-fraud charges and agreed to testify against two other officials ofan Indiana company that allegedly sold worthless earthworm farms in a phony get-rich-quick scheme. David Long of Laguna Hills, Calif., and Mic­hael Robeson of Indianapolis, former salesmen for Superior Worm Brokers Exchange, agreed to return $82,000 to 30 growers who invested in the company's earthworm farms. Federal prosecutors say the company bilked 103 central Illinois residents of more than $230,000. The pair admitted making misrepresentations to lure cus­tomers, including claims that a limited number of worm growers would be solicited, that worms had great sales potential and ihat the company would provide expert advice. ·AP 
Bernard Goetz gained a small victory yesterday when at­tempted murder and assault charges were dropped against the sub· way gunman by a judge who ordered the case presented to a third grand jury. Three charges ofcriminal possession of a weapon were retained against Goetz, who said he shot four youths on a subway train more than a year ago when he believed they were about to rob him. The four counts ofattempted murder and four counts ofassault were dropped by Judge Stephen Crane because of a "prejudicial er­ror'' in instructing the second grand jury that indicted Goetz, ac­cording to court papers released by Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau. ·AP · 
Smokeless tobacco may cause cancer, 
according to a national scientific panel. Decrying a growing use of snuff and other smokeless tobacco, the panel said Wednesday the public should be warned of "conyincing evidence" linking such products to cancer. "This is not a safe alternative to cigarette smoking," said Consensus Development Conference chairman Brian MacMahon, noting that studies show some people have switched to smokeless tobacco in response to warnings linking smoking and can· cer. Snuff, in particular, has been growing in popularity among teen­age boys, who make up nearly 3 million ofthe 1 0 million Americans the panel estimates have used smokeless tobacco during the past year, the group's statement said. Some studies have found substantial use by boys in the third grade. ·Ap 
Of Interest 
Shenanigans auditions for men wm be held tomorrow at 12 p.m. in Room 219 O'Shaughnessy. Anyone who is interested may sign up for a time slot at the Shenanigans office on the third floor ofLaFortune near Scholastic. · The Observer 
Copies of The Juggler are still available in room 309 O'Shaughnessy. They are free and only a few copies remain. · 
The Observer 
The Voluntary Action Center in South Bend, 
Qwhich says it is commited to the belief that personal crisis is an opportunity for personal growth and learning, needs volunteers who can spare a few hours a week. The center's programs.provide support to help those with problems. Anyone interested in volun­teering should calljim at 232-2522 for details.· The Observer 

Weather 
January spring continues today, mostly cloudy in the morning, becoming sunny in the afternoon. Mild with the high around 45. Southwest wind 1 0·1 5 mph. Fair tonight, low 30-35. Mostly cloudy and mild Saturday, high near45. ·AP 



The Ollllerftr (liSPS S99 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday excrpt during exam and vacation prriods. The 0~is published by thr studrntsoflhr llnivrrsily or Notrr Damr and Saint Mary's Collrge. Subscriptions may he purchasrd l'or $30 prr year ( J20 prr srmrstrr) by WTiting 1bc 0~, P.O. Box Q. Notrr Dame, Indiana 
4M~6. 

The Obecrvu is a mrmher or The AModated Prall. All rrproduction rights are rrsrrvrd. 
Design Editor.....: ........... Mark McUiu(lblln Design Asststant..................Allce Kroeger LayoutStaff.................Chris Rosoomondo Typesstters................................. IJirry Burke 
Chuck Papandrea News EdltOt'...................... Mark Pankowski CopyEdiiOt' .................................... Phll Wolf Sports Copy Ed/101'......Eric Scheuermann VIewpoint Copy EdltOt' .......... IJirry Burke VIewpoint Layout............Cathy McCrory 

Features Copy Editor...............Sam Moore Features Layout.................... John Mennen NDDayEdltOt'.......................Lynne Strand SMCDay Editor................. Mary jean Sully AdDesign ......................Jeanne Grammens Michelle Martin Jesse Pesta Tom Biafore Special Layout......................uura Gronek Photographer...........................Justin Smith 

Slain activist's legacy is his words, not celebrations honoring him 
"/ just want to do God's will. And He's always allowed me to go to the mountain. And I've looked over, anaI've seen the promised land .... So I'm happy tonight. I'm not worried about anything. I'm not fearing any man." 
·The Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. 
from his speech at Birmingham, Ala. 
the evening before his assassination 
(April3, 1968). 
Martin Luther King Jr. would have celebrated his 57th birthday two days ago. Instead, many famous and not-so-famous folk of the United States held Wednes­day's celebration for him. Speeches, plaques and celebrations are certain to continue through Monday's federal holiday. 
Wednesday's celebrations came from around the 
country: 
• In Atlanta, King's widow and Georgia's top officials unveiled a plaque on the 


Frank Lipo 
News Editor 
King relied on passive resistance and nonviolence. But his focus was on the confrontational aspects ofsuch tactics and the potential for change of those tactics. Rage at the evils of injustice will make a better world only ifthat rage is kept under control and used as a tool for change. 
A federal holiday honoring King is a mockery unless it remains a vehicle for such change and not a sugary­sweet holiday honoring a dusty historical figure. King's holiday should remain a rallying point for change. It 
should be a holiday that 

lawn of the Capitol. The looks more at what is left ceremony was filled with undone than at what already speeches and a glee club sin· has been accomplished. It ging "Happy Birthday, Dr. should be our opportunity King." to question the institutions 
• 
Connecticut's governor of our society and examine established a 15-member our personal consciences. It comm1ss1on to maintain should challenge the status programs and activities in quo. observance of King's birth. Already we tend to forget 

• 
King's daughter, Yolanda, his calls for economic told approximately 600 pressure on the unjust and Chicago civic and religious his calls for world peace: leaders, "The cause for "Nonviolence is the which he lived is still a answer to tbe crucialpoliti­cause." cal and moral questions of 

• 
President Ronald Reagan our time; the need for man told approximately 350 to overcome oppression Washington youngsters that and violence without 


King was "a great man who wrested justice from the heart ofa great country." 
• South African Bishop Desmond Tutu, who, like King, won a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to end racial inequality, told about 1,500 people in Philadelphia that "no one can ever be truly free unless all are free." 
There is a common thread which ties all of these celebrations together. History reveals King as a great man. He was the spark which ignited a nation to action against injustice. It was he and his followers who made a difference in their world and it was their efforts that snowballed into a national movement. 
Yet, although the U.S. civil rights movement is under­standably what is most closely associated with King, this federal holiday has the potential to be so much more. 
Much of King's greatness seems to be lost in generalizations. By labeling King a great black leader, or a great civil rights leader, much ofwhat he stood for is pushed into the background. 

resorting to oppression ana violence. Man must evolve for all human conflict a method which rejects revenge, aggression ana retalia· tion. The foundation ofsuch a method is love," King said when he received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964. 
Writings, sermons and interviews of King are being published this month in "A Testament of Hope," a 676­page work. The words found in this book are the legacy of King, not film footage of mass rallies or plaques honoring the man. He gave us advice on the way in which he climbed the mountain and looked at the promised land. 
That, too, is his legacy. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 

Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 

BANKING••• 

ONCAMPUSATSMNTMARVS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours-Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday -11:00 a.ll).-4:00p.m. ~ source 
Join Michiana's 1stTeam 
..:aank 

for unsurpa~sed banking service! Member F.D.I.C. 
~~-~ ----------~~·---------­
~~ 

The Observer Friday, january 17, 1986-page 3 



Martin Luther King Jr. honored as national hero at Capitol 
face. Then she turned, smiling 
broadly, and joined the applause 
WASHINGTON -Martin Luther that echoed thunderously inside the King Jr. was enshrined as a national Capital dome. hero yesterday In the Capital Mrs. King noted that her hus­Rotunda as his widow unveiled a band's bust Is the first one of a black brooding, bigger-than-life sculpture American to be installed in "the pan­of the civil rights leader".and urged theon of national heroes" in the his countrymen to "turn America Capital, an honor rendered nearly Into an oasis offreedom and justice." 18 years after King was slain in 
Memphis, Tenn., on April 4, 1968. 
Corella Scott King pulled a black Surrounded by her four grown shroud from the towering bronze children, several of King's former bust and looked up silently for a mo­civil rights associates and members ment at the likeness ofher husband's of Congress, Mrs. King said that "my 

Prisoners free captives as 30-hour ordeal ends 
AMoclated PreM 
YPSILANTI, Mich. -Two armed Inmates who held three people hostage at knifepolnt in a maximum­security prison for about 30 hours releasc:d their captives unharmed yesterday and surrendered, aut· horltles said. 
The two inmates, who took the hostages at I 0:4"i a.m. Wednesday, received assurances that they would be transferred from the Huron Val­ley Men's Facllity to federal prisons, said Marvin May, a spokesman for the state Department of Correc­tions. He would not identify the federal prisons. 
The prisoners also were granted Interviews with Depmy Corrections Director Dan Bolden, but their demand to meet with the news media was denied. 
The hostages were released at 4:26p.m., May said. They were iden­tified as john Saren, 50, a food­service:: supervisor from Ypsilanti; Ron lksbrough, 48, a guard from Saline::; and Darwin Gravitt, 36, an Inmate:: who worked In the kitchen. 
Gravitt was placed In "an isolation unit," said Thomas Phillips, a correc­tions spokesman. There had been 
some question whether Gravitt was 
a hostage or a participant, but aut­
horities said they concluded he was 
a hostage. 
Warden Dan Bolden was inter· 
viewing the inmates and state police 
were talking to the hostages. 
A fourth person taken hostage, 
guard Dennis Easley, 27, ofYpsilanti, 
was releasc:d about 12 hours after 
the Incident began In exchange for a 
black-and-white television sc:t, some 
cigarettes and matches, Phillips said. 
"They asked for amnesty a while 
back and that was denied," he said. 
The inmates were identified as Namon Travis, 40, convicted ofrape and armed robbery and serving a life sentence, and Elvis Williams, 31, ser­ving time for armed robbery. 
The incident was touched off by Travis' learning his efforts failed to halt his transfer, scheduled for yes­terday, to Southern Michigan Prison at Jackson, said Gail Light, a spokes­woman for the state Department of Corrections. 
"He (Travis) claimed to have an enemy there and tried to talk his way out of the transfer. When he was un· successful, he went Into the yard and tried to mobilize prisoners," Light said. 
deadlines, and the staff is really excited about what they're doing."

Books 
continued/rom page 1 
Demers said she would like to see I.a.~l year's problems will not oc· more student support of the year­cur a!Cltin with this year's Blue book, such as student photography M:mtle, according to Demers. and explanations of campus events. She encouraged those: interested In "We have a strong staff of people:: working on the yearbook to visit the doing the best job possible," she office, located on the thirtl floor of said. "We're actually ahead of our 
Haggar College Center. 
~--A-TTENTICiN--1 
It .JUNIOR ItI ENGINEERS I 
t t : PROCTER and GAMBLE : 
t t 
t will be on campus to provide t t information on summer positions t t in manufacturing mgt. t t t t t
I Sunday .Jan. t!l. 7-!1 pm. I t t t atth• t 



:_~~~':!~·~~·~~~~~-: 
hope is that we'll be reminded of both the dream and the reality" of her husband's goals of social justice and racial harmony. 
"We have much work yet to do," she said. 
The dedication of King's bust came four days before the first offi· cial federal holiday Is held on Mon­day in observance of his birth 57 years ago. King actually was born on Jan. 15. 
Among those attending the dedication were Sen. Charles Mat· hias, R-Md., and former Rep. Jonat­han Bingham, D·N.Y., co-sponsors of the legislation authorizing a King statue in the halls of Congress, which approved their resolution In December 1982. 
Mathias said It was fitting that a memorial to King be placed alongside statues ofWashington,Jef· ferson and Lincoln In the Rotunda, but he added: 
"When you see a lunch counter with black and white Americans eating together, then you sc:e his monument. When you see black and white children playing together In a 
school yard, then you sc:e his monu­
ment. 
"When you see a bus In Birmin­
gham or a voting booth In Selma, 
then you see his monument. When 
you see black Americans and white 
Americans working together for a 
better life for all Americans, then 
you see his monument. " 
The audience heard the reading of a message from President Reagan, who saluted all who have continued to work for "a truly color-blind America" since King's death. 

Desperately Seeking . • • 
People who love to draw and who have a deep desire to become famous. The STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD needs artists! Please call Meegan at 239-7757 if_you are interested. 

"But on Sunda~ four boHies of Cokticost only$1.00!' 
Call DOMINO'S PIZZA® 
for Sunday's special­
four 16-oz. bottles of 
Coke® for only $1.00 
with any order. 
Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from Domino's Pizza. Made to order and deliv­ered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on Sunday, get four servings of Coke® for only $1.00 with your order. 
Just ask for Sunday's spe­cial. Available all day this Sunday ... only from Domino's Pizza. 

Call us: 277·2151 1835 South Bend Avenue Pla~a 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Jus! request the Sunday special. Limited delivery eree. <Cl 1986 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
DOMINO'S 

· PIZZA 
.. DELIVERS®
Ill

· · ®FREE. 

The Observer Friday, January 17, 1986-page 4 



Seven states named as possibllities for next nuclear waste disposal site 
WASHINGTON -The Energy Department yesterday selected seven states as possibilities for a second vault to store highly radioactive nuclear waste for I 0,000 years. The selections set off im­mediate cries of "Not in my back yard!" from governors and other of­ficials. 
"If it's not a good site, it's to the state's advantage and ours to find that out," said Ben Rusche, head of DOE's civilian radioactive waste office. 
Congress in 1982 directed the department to plan for two under­ground repositories, using different geologies ifpossible, to isolate an ex­pected 140,000 metric tons ­154,000 U.S. tons -of spent reactor fuel, weapons waste and other highly radioactive material. 
The 12 sites chosen yesterday are granite or other crystalline rock formations -three in Minnesota, two each in Maine, North Carolina and Virginia and one each in New Hampshire, Georgia and Wisconsin. 
An additional eight sites -five in Minnesota and one eacti in Georgia, Wisconsin and New Hampshire ­were chosen as backups in case any of the front-runners has to be dropped, an event Rusche said was unlikely. 
Only one site actually has been authorized by Congress, which would have to approve a second. DOE earlier chose a salt formation in Texas, a basalt formation in Was­hington state and a tuff formation in Nevada as finalists for the first repository, with a presidential deci­sion scheduled for 1991 on which one to use. 
Until Congress decides on a second site, the first is limited to 70,000 mettic tons, although Rusche said either could hold all ex­pected material. He said it was "not a foregone conclusion" that a second site actually will be decided upon. 
If a second site is chosen, the deci­sion would come in 1998 for use in about 2006. 

Researchers find key to AIDS virus 
NEW YORK -Researchers have found the lock-and-key by which the AIDS virus zeroes in on its target in the body's immune system, raising new hopes for a vaccine against the deadly disease. 
In a report to be published today in Science magazine, the researchers said the finding suggests new ways of stopping or preventing AIDS in­fections, either by treating immune cells to reject the AIDS virus or by using drugs to attack the part of the virus that directs it toward immune cells. 
Scientists have known that the AIDS virus has a very particular preference for a specific white blood cell called the T-4 lym­phocyte. The T-4 cells play a critical role in the body's immune system by directing the function of other blood cells. 
When the T-4 cells are infected with the AIDS virus, they cannot coordinate the immune system and the body becomes susceptible to the bizarre infections and unusual can-

Reagan vows to study Soviet plan carefully 
Assoclatcd Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan said yesterday that the Kremlin's sweeping plan for nuclear disarmament by the end of the cen­tury is encouraging and "different from things that we've heard in the past," and he promised to analyze it carefully. 
However, the administration firmly rejected Moscow's fresh demand for a scrapping of "Star Wars" missile-defense research and a proposed moratorium on nuclear testing. 
In unveiling the new offer Wed­nesday, Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­bachev insisted that the disarmament process could proceed only if the United States and the Soviet Union "renounce the development, testing and deploy­ment" of so-called space-strike weapons, the Kremlin's term for Star Wars. The administration calls the plan the Strategic Defense Initiative, or SOl. 
After reviewing the Soviet plan overnight, the administration mixed cautious praise of some elements with criticism ofother aspects. 
Reagan reserved judgment on whether it signaled that the Soviets are serious about negotiating an arms agreement. 
"We're going to find out," he said, answering reporters' questions briefly during a picture-taking ses­sion in the Cabinet Room. 
"We're grateful for the offer," the president said. Asked whether it could lead toward disarmament, he said, "We're studying it with great care and it is going to depend on what takes place in Geneva'.' 
worldwide nuclear weapons freeze and, finally, complete nuclear dis­

Talks 
armament by the year 2000. Both sides said at the U.S.-Soviet
continuedfrom page 1 
summit in November that they first stage ofGorbachev's proposals. agreed in principle on cutting The plan calls for 50 percent nuclear forces in half. 
cers seen in AIDS patients. 
The new research, by Dr.J. Steven McDougal and colleagues at the Center for Disease Control in At­lanta, explains how the AIDS virus is able to discriminate among many white blood cells and infect only the T-4 cells. 
The researchers showed that an AIDS infection begins when a virus protein called gp110 recognizes and binds to the so-called T-4 protein on the T-4 cells. 

Father Sorln's statue bas a dusting ofsnow in this photograph taken after the first snowfall of the season. Much ofthe snow on campus will be melting this weekend, however, as temperatures continue in the 40s. 

,.............................................................................................................................. 
students~~A~!hol Problems  !  
Meeting on Mondays at 4 :oo pm.  =  
Counseling & Psychological Services  
Center rm. 316 Do you have some ideas about alcohol? Would you like to share them with other students who may also be like you? Call 239-5085 or stop by C.&PSC.{Monl  

THE: TYPICAL NA\JV MAN'S" LOCI<E:R. We know home's o hard place to leave. Out if you think it looks good. just wait till you have been around ... after you've skied in the Alps, fished in New Zealand. hil~ed in Spain. and gone swimming in the Aegean ...as o Navy officer. We really aren't kidding when we say, "Join the Navy and see the world:' A TWO-YEAR SCHOLARSHIP ($16,000), OR $2,000 EXPENSE MONEY MAY BE EARNED BY APPLYING FOR NROTC DURING YOUR SOPHOMORE YEAR! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL LT. WACHTL AT 239-7274.  

reductions in nuclear arsenals capable of reaching the other side's 
territory and elimination within eight years of U.S. and Soviet 
The Department ofTheatre and medium-range missiles based in Europe. 
Communication Arts announces the 
Sprinr:J Film Series 
NEWLOWPRICES 
$1.50 individual admission to singlefilm season tickets and series 
In New in.: Stile Stinley H IUpl,in EduuihOnJI r.enlel 1.10 

tickets available at a discount
TEST PAEMAATION SP£CIAI.ISTS SINCE 1938 CALL DAYS. EVENINGS • WEEKENDS 
NEWPROJECTIONSYSTEM 
We arepleased to announce the installation ofa new 16mm theatrical quality projector in the Annenburg Auditorium. 
1717 E. South Bend ~•. 

South Bend. jndlana 4W7 See ealendar Insert In Monda~'s o•server for film fl series llstln1s 
272·4135 


Spring Film Series 
Members of the campus communities are invited to attend classroom screenings in the Center for Socia I Concerns Auditorium on Wednesday and in the O'Shaughnessy Loft on Thursday. No ad­mission will be charged for these classroom screenings. (However, faculty members intending to send a class to a classroom screening are urged to contact the Dept. of Communication and Theatre at least a week in advance of the scheduled screening -x5134 -as seating in the Loft is limited.) 
The Department of Communication and Theatre strives in all instances to follow the schedule published in this calendar. However, circumstances beyond our con­trol sometimes force us to make last 
Wednesday Night Rim Series 
7:00pm O'Shaughnessy Loft 
These films are shown in conjunction with COTH 214 Film History. This semester, the study of world film history concentrates on films from the Weimar German cinema and the American cinema of the 1930's. 
minute changes. For instance, prints are 
sometimes lost in the mail; film 
laboratories sometimes fall to meet 
deadlines for producing prints of a film; 
and distributors sometimes remove films 
under litigation from distribution without 
any advance warning. We hope for your 
patience in such circumstances; whenever 
possible, we will try to provide advance 
information about schedule changes. For 
information about films and schedule 
changes, you may also consult the Film 
Series Hotline, new this semester at 
239-7167, which will be updated con­
tinuously throughout the semester. 
Attendance at tne film series Is grow­ing, especially on Fridays. For popular titles, It is best to arrive 15 minutes early. 
Thursday Night Rim Series 7:00pm 
O'Shaughnessy Loft 
These films are shown In conjunction with the Dept. of Communication and Theatre curriculum to f"cilltate the study of the process of repreSentation In filmic form. 
The Department of Communication and Theatre offers films to the public Monday through Friday nights. Monday, Tuesday, and Friday films will be screened at the Annenberg Auditorium. Snite Museum of Art, University of Notre Dame campus. This spring, due to generous support from the College of Arts and Letters, the Snite Museum of Art, and the Kellogg Institute, significantly reduced prices will go into ef· teet: individual admission to a single film. $1.50. In addition to individual admission, reduced prices lor sea~on tickets will go into effect: (1) a season ticket good lor any 25 films shown In the Annenberg Auditorium during the Spring 1986 semester will be $30; (2) a season ticket lor any 15 films shown in the Annenberg 
Monday Night Rim Series I and H 
7:00 and 9:00 pm (or later) Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum (check individual film descriptions lor second screening times) 
Monday Night I. These films span American and world film styles, demonstrating the lull range of cinematic art. Shown In conjunction with COTH 140 Basics of Film Studies. 
Monday Night II. These films demonstrate the stylistic and formal range of Italian filmmaking. Shown in conjunction with COTH 320 Aspects of Cinema and MLI 377 Italian Cinema. 
Auditorium during the Spring 1986 
semester will be $22; (3) a season ticket 
lor the six Latin American films screened 
in the Annenberg during the Spring 1986 
semester will be $7. 
In addition to reduced ticket prices, 
spring 1986 brings another important 
change to the film series: a new. 
theatrical quality 16mm projector has been 
installed in the Annenberg Auditorium to 
enhance your viewing pleasure. 
We thank our audience lor its continued 
interest and support in making the film 
series the successful campus events that 
they have become. We urge you to con­
tinue to support the film series through 
your attendance; continued financial sup­
port is contingent upon audience interest. 
Tuesday Night Rim Series 7:30pm 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum 
(check individual film descriptions for 
second screening times) 
These films correspond to two classroom offerings. Some of the films are shown In conjunction with COTH 324 French cinema since 1960, which demonstrates the heritage of the classical French cinema and Its rewriting by New Wave and post-New Wave French film· making. Other films are shown in conjunc­tion with COTH 260 Media Analysis, which this spring takes up postmodernism in the cinema and several associated textual practices: Irony. parody, and intertextuali­ty. 
We attempt, insofar as it Is possible, to 
begin screenings at the scheduled times. 
As always, we welcome any sugges­tions you might have concerning program­ming and future series. Please submit any suggestions or comments to the Film Series Committee, Dept. of Communication and Theatre, 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall, University of Notre Dame. 
Please note different locations and times for different series offerings. 
Series tickets may be purchased at the door at the Snlte or from Mary Mitchell, Dept. of Communication and Theatre, 320 O'Shaughnessy Hall, during business hours: 8:30 a.m.-12:00 and 1:00 p.m.-4:30 p.m (239-5134). 
Friday Night Film Series 
7:30 and 9:30 pm Annenberg Auditorium, Snlte Museum (check individual film descriptions for times of second showings) 
Recent American and foreign films of the international art cinema. This semester, these films are shown in con­junction with COTH 260 Media Analysis, COTH 324 French Cinema since 1960, and COTH 320/MLI 377 Italian Cinema. 

1/20 7:00 pm. Snite 
Stairway To Heaven 
(1946). Color. 104 min. 
Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, 
Great Britain 
A monochrome heaven contrasts with a technicolor earth in this literate fantasy about a pilot caught between this and the other world. With David Niven and Ray­mond Massey. 
1120 9:00 pm, Snite 
Cablrla 
(1913) B/W. silent. 70 min. 
Giovanni Pastrone. Italy 
A spectacle of even greater grandeur, extravagance. and distinction than Ouo Vadis. Cab/ria Is an epic saga of the Se­cond Punic War between Rome and Car­thage -monumental. elaborate. perhaps "the dizziest peak of the Italian cinema" (Vernon Jarratt). 
1/21 7:30pm, Snite Les Vlslleurs Du Solr (1942) B/W, 120 min. Marcel Carne. France 
Visiteurs recreates a medieval legend about the Devil, who dispatches two emissaries to earth to wreak havoc on hapless mortals, but who eventually suc­cumb to the powers of love. With Arletty and Jules Berry. 
1122 7:00 pm, TBA Intolerance (1916), B/W (tinted). 124 min. 
D.W. Griffith, USA 
In four separate stories, fascinatingly in­terwoven from different eras. Griffith at­tacks the ageless adversaries: intolerance and bigotry. At the same time. he in­novates film techniques tar advanced for 1916. Using cross-cutting, the technique he developed in early one-and two­reelers. Griffith flashes lour interspersed finales, unified only by the viewers' grasp of the film's humanitarian theme. 
1/23 7:00 pm, Loft Essene (1972) B/W, 86 min. Frederick Wiseman. USA 
Essene Is one of the best religious films ever made.... Wiseman's look at life inside a monastery also studies the essential meanings inherent in any institu­tional framework. Recipient of the 1972 Gabriel Award presented by the Catholic Association for Broadcasters. 
1124 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite 
The Brother From Another Planet 
(1984) Color, 110 min. 
John Sayles, USA 
A science-fiction comedy whose premise is that an extraterrestrial who looks exactly like a young black man crash lands in New York Harbor and winds up in Harlem. An allegory about the ex­perience of being an immigrant alien and an outsider that is both touching and fun­ny. 
1127 7:00 pm, Snite 
Grand lnuslon 
(1937) B/W, 114 min. 
Jean Renoir, France 
Renoir's most famous film, and one of his finest, explores fraternity amidst war­fare, doing so with cognizance of class barriers, ethnic backgrounds, and national allegiances. 
1127 9:00 pm, Snite Open CHy (1945) B/W, 109 min. Roberto Rossellini, Italy 
The use of non-professional actors, the documentary look of the film (partially created by the technical limitations of shooting a liberation film during the actual Nazi withdrawal from Rome) and, most of 
all, its passionate effort to examine the 
truth after 20 years of Italian fascism 
have kept this film a living, caring human 
document. · 
1128 7:30 pm, Snite Bizarre, Bizarre (1937) B/W, 87 min. Marcel Carne, France 
Carne and Prevert have fashioned a combination farce/burlesque with all Frenchmen playing eccentric Englishmen, presumably representing a true image of how the French view people across the Channel. With Michael Simon. 
1129 7:00 pm., Loft The General (1926) B/W, 7 4 min. Buster Keaton, USA 
A genuinely great screen comedy, this film was inspired by an authentic episode in American history, a Civil War incident in which a band of Confederate soldiers com­mandeered a Union Locomotive called "the General." The comic technique Is so well developed that it plays even better to to­day's audiences than it did In Its own era of 1927. 
1130 7:00 pm, Social Concerns 
The Goldrush 
(1925) B/W, 81 min. 
Charles Chaplin. USA 
Charlie Chaplin in the lonely prospector down on his luck and food supply. fending off his demented partner (Mack Swain) and trying to charm a dance hall girl who has her own methods of digging for gold. With a blend of acrobatics, pathos and humor that is known worldwide as Chaplinesque. the Little Tramp endlessly charms us in one of his most famous features. 
1131 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite 
PauHne AI The Beach (1983) Color, 94 min. 
Eric Rohmer, France 
A delightful glimpse at the romantic en· tanglements of an eccentric group of vaca­tioners. The vibrant cinematography of Oscar-winner Nestor Almendros enhances this sunny comedy of confusion that delivers touching insight into the ever­conflicting workings of the mind and the heart. 


February 
2  3  4  5  .6  7  8  
9  10  7:00 Snite Ball of Fire 9:00 Snite Bicycle Thief  11  7:30 Snite Le Plaisir  7:00 Social Concerns ·Caligari/Nosferatu 12  13  No Film  14  7:30, 9:45 Snite The Last Metro  15  
16  7:00 Snite Nicaragua: No Passaran 9:00 Snite Paisan 17  18  7:30 Snite Destry Rides Again  7:00 Social Concerns Metropolis 19  20  No film  21  7:30, 9:45 Snite Stavisky  22  
7:00 Snite Improper Conduct 9:00 Snite La Strada  7:30 Snite Union Pacific  7:00 Social Concerns Joyless Street  No film  7:30, 9:30 Snite Death Watch  
23  24  25  26  27  28  
7:00 Snite one show only of Once Upon a Time in the West  7:30 Snite The Locket  7:00 Social Concerns M  No film  7:30, 9:30 Snite Lite is aBed of Roses  

2/3 7:00 pm, Snite Bal Of Are (1941) B/W, 111 min. Howard Hawks, USA 
Film nair meets the screwball comedy in this yarn about a group of isolated and eccentric professors writing an en­cyclopedia entry on American slang by studying the language of hard-boiled nightclub singer Barbara Stanwyck. With Gary Cooper. 
213 9:00 pm, Snite 
Bicycle Thief 
(1948) B/W, 90 min. 
Vittorio De Sica, Italy 
The most important film of postwar Ita­

ly, Bicycle Thief's extension of untradi­
tional concepts of plot and dramatic struc­
ture exerted considerable influence on the 
development of the cinema. Its story of a 
man searching for something on which his 
very life depended was a theme so new 
that the film required no artificial drama. 
214 7:30 pm, Snite 
Le Plllslr 
(1953) BIW, 75 min. 
Max Ophuls, France 
The irony of French short storyist Guy 

de Maupassant may have found its cor­
responding film component in the direction 
of Max Ophuls' restraint, hilarity, and 
charm. 
2/5 7:00 pm, Social Concerns 
The Cabinet Of Dr. CaHgarl 
(1919) BIW, 67 min. 
Robert Wiene, Germany 
Nosferatu 
(1922) BIW, 63 min. 
F.W. Murnau, Germany 
Famous for its art direction and its set de~ign, Caligari is also a trailblazing effort in lighting and screenwriting and was made at Berlin's Ufa studios when expres­sionism and cubism were doctrines of the artistic avant-garde. Murnau's Nasferatu, played by Max Schreck, was the first and the most eerie of all the screen Draculas. 
2/7 7:30 and 9:45 pm, Snite 
The Last Metro (1980) Color, 131 min. 
Francois Truffaut, France 
Francois Truffaut depicts life in the French theatre during the Nazi occupation in WWII. Against this dramatic setting, a delicate love story unfolds. With Catherine Deneuve and Gerard Depardieu. 
2/10 7:00 pm, Snite 
Nicaragua: No Pasaran 
(1984) Color, 7 4 min. 
David Bradbury, Australia 
Lucidly analytical and intensely 
dramatic, this is the definitive film to date 
on the continuing crisis in Central 
America, focusing on the Nicaraguan 
revolution and its struggle to survive in 
the face of massive U.S. economic and 
military pressure. 
2/10 9:00 pm, Snite 
Palsan 
(1946) B/W, 124 min. 
Roberto Rossellini, Italy 
Six startling depictions of people strug­
gling for liberty against tyranny, poverty, 
and war. Screenplay by Roberto Rossellini 
and Federico Fellini. 
2/11 7:30 pm, Snite 
Destry Rides Again 
(1939) B/W, 94 min. 
George Marshall, USA 
A farcical Western in which the new 
sheriff, played by James Stewart, turns out to be a disappointingly easygoing type who is opposed to the use of firearms and 
relies instead on hilarious exemplary tales with rather grim morals. With Marlene Dietrich. 
2/12 7:00 pm, Social Concerns 
Metropolis 
(1926) B/W, 97 min. 
Fritz Lang, Germany 
Lang's most famous silent film uses science fiction and spectacular special effects to tell a story of biting social criticism. The elaborate expressionist sets, Lang's ability to create a whole new futuristic world on film, and the passionate humanism of the film combine to make one of the most memorable of films from any period. 
2/14 7:30 and 9:45 pm, Snite 
Stavisky (1974) Color, 117 min. 
Alain Resnais, France 
Stavisky is a recounting of the climactic days in 1933 in the career of a con man turned international financier whose ruin resulted in a political scandal and his own mysterious death. Starring Jean-Paul Belmondo, this is one of Alain Resnais' most visually exquisite films. 
2/17 7:00 pm, Snite 
Improper Conduct 
(1984) Color, 115 min. 
Nestor Almendros and Orlando Jimenez­
Leal 
A powerful documentary contrasting the 
romantic myth of the Cuban Revolution 
with the grim picture of Cuban society that 
is being reported by the enormous tide of 
refugees from Castro's paradise. Chilling, 
understated, and completely absorbing ­
a critique of the left from the "left." 
2/17 9:00 pm, Snite La Strada (1954) B/W, 107 min. Federico Fellini, Italy 
In Fellini's powerful and poetic film, Giulietta Masina gives a deeply moving performance as a waif who is enslaved by her love for a circus strongman. 
2/18 7:30 pm, Snite 
Union Pacific 
(1939) B/W, 135 min. 
Cecil B. DeMille, USA 
An epic drama about the building of the transcontinental railroad and the drive to Promontory Point. With Barbara Stanwyck as an Irish postmistress and Joel McCrea as the Union Pacific's troubleshooter. 
2/19 7:00 pm, Social Concerns 
The Joyless Street 
(1925) B/W, 89 min. 
G.W. Pabst, Germany 
A street in post WWI Vienna, economically and spiritually ravaged by the war, becomes a microcosm of human suffering. One family must deal with the problems of the father's unemployment and huge inflation in a story based on in­cidents in Pabst's own life. 
2/21 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite 
Death Watch 
(1982) Color, 110 min. 
Bertrand Tavernier, France 
In a futuristic society fascinated with death, Romy Schneider stars as a ter­minally ill woman, persuaded by the ratings hungry media to have her death shown on TV. Death Watch is a thought­provoking vision of humanity corrupted by a computerized, modern world. With Harvey Keitel and Max von Sydow. 
2/24 7:00 pm, Snite Once Upon A Time In the West (1969) Color, cinemascope, 165 min. Sergio Leone, Italy/USA 
Leone's monumental Western epic of loyalty and revenge uses Henry Fonda and Charles Bronson in a critical rewriting of the classic Hollywood myth of the coming of civilization to the American West. With Claudia Cardinale and Jason Robards. 
2/25 7:30 pm, Snite 
The Locket 
(1946) BIW, 86 min. 
John Brahm, USA 
Kleptomaniac Larine Day's past in­
discretions imperil her current happiness 
in this most convoluted and excessive of 
film nair baroque plot variations featuring, 
among other things, flashbacks within 
flashbacks within flashbacks. With the 
young Robert Mitchum. 
2/26 7:00 pm, Social Concerns 
M 
(1931) BIW, 95 min. 
Fritz Lang, Germany 
Lang's masterpiece, M is ranked among 
the finest films of the German early sound 
period. The story is based on an actual 
police case, the Vampire of Dusseldorf. It 
is one of subtle ironies and dark, disturb­
ing terrors: police and criminals track 
down a psychopathic child killer. 
2/26 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite 
Life Is A Bed Of Roses 
(1983) Color, 11 0 min. 
Alain Resnais, France 
A bevy of stars (Fanny Ardant, 
Geraldine Chaplin, Ruggero Raimondi, and 
Vittorio Gassman) attempt to re-experience 
their birth traumas, setting the stage for 
Resnais' witty and imaginative flights of 
imagination into past, present, and legend. 

March 

2 
3 

5
4 

6 
7 

7:00 Social Concerns7:00 Snite 
7:30 Snite 7:00 Loft 7:30, 9:30 Snite Strangers on aTrain 
The Nun The love Parade Spellbound La Nult de Varennes 
9:00 Snite Red Desert 
11 12 13 14 15
9 
10 

7:30 Snite 7:00 Social Concerns 7:30 Snite7:00 Snite 
No film
Marnie Palm Beach Story Footlight Parade A Week's Vacation 

9:15 Snite Juliet of the Spirits 
16 
17 

18 19 20 21 22 
7:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 
7:00 Social Concerns 
........ MIDSEMESTER . . . . . . .. . . .
The Big Heat The Sin of 
My Man Godfrey
9:00 Snite Harold Diddlebock The Damned 
24 25 26 27
23 
28 
29 

. . . . .. . . . . BREAK . . . . . . . . . . AND . . . . . . .. . . EASTER . . . . . . . . . . VACATION . . . . . . .. . . 
30 31 
3/3 7:00 pm, Snite Strangers On A Train (1951)8/W, 101 min. Alfred Hitchcock. USA 
A yuppie tennis player and a psychotic mama's boy become entangled in an ex­change of murders after a chance meeting on a train in this classic tnriller in which guilt and desire merge. With Robert Walker and Farley Granger_ 
313 9:00 pm, Snrte Red Desert (1964) Color, 116 min. Michelangelo Antonlonl, Italy 
Antonioni's depiction of modern woman's alienation in an urban milieu is one of the most expressive uses of color and sound ever achieved. With Monica Vitti and Richard Harris. 
314 7:30 pm, Snite The Nun (1965) Color, 140 min. 
Jacques Rivette, France 
Rivette's film is based on Diderot's tamous novel of 18th-century convent life and remains one of the towering achievements of French cinema in the 60's. "A beautiful, calm, austere movie that somehow manages to be faithful to the original, yet quite diHerent in tone" ­Vincent Canby. NY Times. 
315 7:00 pm, Social Concerns The Love Parade (1929) BIW. 110 min. Ernst Lubitsch. USA 
The initial teaming of Maurice Chevalier and Jeanette MacDonald is an enjoyable operetta with the chic Lubitsch touch, about love among French royalty, with "Dream Lover" as its best musical number. 
316 7:00 pm, Loft Spellbound (1945) BIW, 112 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 
Ingrid Bergman plays a lovelorn psychiatrist who falls for amnesia victim Gregory Peck and works to explore his un­conscious to prove that he has not committed murder in this tale of psychic suspense. With a famous dream sequence by Salvador Dali and Miklos Rozsa's Academy Award-winning score. 
317 7:30 pm, Snite 
La Null De Varennes 
(1983) Color, 151 min. 
Ettore Scola, France (Italy) 
A lavish spectacle about the night King Louis XVI of France was arrested features an international cast as well known figures of the period, who debate the nature of history and narrative as observers of the event. With Harvey Keitel, Marcello Mastroianni, and Jean-Louis Barrault. 
3110 7:00 pm, Snite Marnle (1964) Color, 130 min. 
Alfred Hitchcock, USA 
One of Hitchcock's most sexual, roman­tic and emotionally intense films, Mamie studies an amateur psychologist's obses­sion with a beautiful kleptomaniac who is haunted by strange dreams and the color red. With Sean Connery and Tipi Hedren. 
311 0 9:15 pm, Snite JuHet Of The Spirits (1965) Color, 137 min. Federico Fellini, Italy 
Fellini's first color film is a dazzling po_r­trayal of a woman trying to emerge from an unhappy marriage. A psychological fairy tale, it is the story of Giulietta's year­ning to become a sensual woman. 
3/11 7:30 pm, Snite 
Palm Beach Story 
(1942) B/W, 88 min. 
Preston Sturges, USA 
Two pairs of twins complicate this 
screwball comedy that parodies the con­
ventions of the Hollywood romantic 
melodrama. Perhaps the funniest film of 
the 1940's. 
3112 7:00 pm, Social Concerns Footlight Parade (1933) BIW, 105 min. Lloyd Bacon, USA 
James Cagney plays a stage director who tries to outdo himself with spec­tacular musical numbers. Fast-paced Warner Bros. opus winds up with three in­credible Busby Berkeley musical numbers back-to-back: "Honeymoon Hotel," "By a Waterfall," and "Shanghai Lil." 
3/14 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite 
A Week's Vacation 
(1980) Color, 102 min. 
Bertrand Tavernier, France 
A fascinating, intelligent film about a 31-year-old teacher who suddenly finds herself plagued by the feeling that her life has no particular meaning. "What Is best about Tavernier is his feeling for the or­dinary currents of everyday life" -Roger Ebert. 
3117 7:00 pm, Snlte 
The Big Heat 
(1953) BIW, 94 min. 
Fritz Lang, USA 
A film nair masterpiece in which a cop seeks to avenge the car-bomb murder of his wife by single-handedly taking on mob corruption. With Glenn Ford, Gloria Grahame and Lee Marvin. 
3/17 9:00 pm, Snite The Damned (1970) Color, 155 min. Luchino Visconti, Great Britain (Italy) 
The Damned probes the soul of Ger­many on the eve of Nazi power. "The most beautiful, overwhelming movie 1have ever seen" -Liz Smith. 
3118 7:30 pm, Snite 
The Sin Of Harold Dtddlebock 
(1946) BIW, 90 min. 
Preston Sturges, USA 
Sturges, master satirist, joins forces with Harold Lloyd in this outlandish tale of a timid clerk who winds up owning a bankrupt circus. The film combines footage from The Freshman with the wacky Sturges stock company to achieve absolutely hilarious results. 
3/19 7:00pm Social Concerns 
My Man Godfrey 
(1936) BIW, 95 min. 
Gregory La Cava, USA 
A sparkling "screwball" comedy of the Depression era wherein the idle rich are put in their places by their betters (the poor, who understand the meaning of life). It is done with obvious relish by William Powell, Carole Lombard, Broadway's ac­tress Alice Brady, everybody's favorite White Russian, (Mischa Auer), and the gravel-voiced Eugene Palette as the bewildered but lovable father. 

~ 
•
• 
~ 
-----------------------------------~-------­
.J

April· 
l• 
t 
• ~ 
k 
t 
6 13 20 27  7:00 Social ConcernsNo film Old Maid 7 8 9 10 7:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 7:00 Social ConcernsBlade Runner Every Man for HimseH Fury9:15 Snite Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion 14 15 16 17 7:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 7:00 Social Concerns Latino La Guerre est Finie Mr. Deeds Goes to Town 9:00 Snite Viva Halla 21 22 23 24 7:00, 9:00 Snite 7:30 Snite 7:00 Social ConcernsCrossover Dreams Le Boucher Young Mr. Lincoln 28 29 30 7:00 Snite Baby H's You 7:00 Snite No film9:00 Snite The Sorrow and the PityHow Tasty Was My Lmle Frenchman  No film 7:00 Loft Gilda No film No film  7:30, 9:30 Snite Zelig 11 7:30, 9:30 Snite The Official Story 18 7:30, 9:30 Snite City of Women 25 7:30, 9:45 Snite Allonsanfan  12 19 26  

4/2 7:00pm, Social Concerns tales of a TV director, his girlfriend, and a forces soldier on an undercover mission 4/18 7:30 pm, Snite truths. Ford distills the very essence of
Old Maid 
young prostitute. A meditation on modern with contras in Guatemala whose loyalties City Of Women the Lincoln myth.
(1939) BJW, 95 min. 
life, infused with perverse wit, cool are torn between duty and his love for a (1980) Color, 138 min. 
Edmund Goulding, USA 
eroticism, and startling beauty. With Nicaraguan in exile. Gradually, through the Federico Fellini, Italy 4/25 7:30 and 9:45 pm, SniteSoap opera par excellence based on Isabelle Huppert, Nathalie Baye. 
eyes of this protagonist, we come to sym· City of Women is Federico Fellini's im· AllonsanfanZoe Atkins play about an unwed mother pathize with the sandinistas against whom aginative voyage into the world of women (1974) Color, 117 min.
(Bette Davis), whose unsuspecting 4/9 7:00 pm, Social Concerns he has been waging guerilla campaigns. -or, more accurately, into the world of Paola and Vittorio Taviani, Italydaughter Bryan grows up ignoring her, lov· Fury male fantasies about women, set adrift in "A brilliant political costume movie .
ing Bette's scheming cousin (Miriam (1936) B/W, 94 min. 
the threatening seas of middle-age and mixing elements of opera and farce, Alfon­Hopkins). The two female stars create 
Fritz Lang, USA 4/14 9:00 pm, Snite feminism. Part apocalyptic joyride, part 
sanfan is as full of reversals and disguisesfireworks as they enact this chronicle of A still timely drama of lynch mobs and VIva HaHal tunhouse, part dream, part vaudeville, City as an 18th century novel -and about aslove and hate in the 1860's. mob rule in a small town, making a (1978) Color, 87 min. of Women is a giant, important work. 

naturalistic. Alfonsanfan is the strongest

hardened criminal of innocent Spencer Mario Monicelli, Dino Risi, Ettore Scola, Taviani brothers film to ever open in New4/4 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite Tracy, and spoiling his love lor sweetheart 
Italy 
York" -J. Hoberman, Village Voice.

Zelg Sylvia Sidney. Fritz Lang's first American A black comedy, comprised of ninll 4/21 7:00 and 9:00 pm, Snite (1984) Color and B/W, 78 min. film is a vivid drama exploring the grim 
vignettes, about the human condition in to· Crossover Dreams 
4/28 7:00 pm, SniteWoody Allen, USA nature of violence and retribution. 

day's world. Touching on politics, old age, (1985) Color, 86 min. 
Baby H's YouIn Zelig, a pseudo-documentary about a 

religion and love, it is an hilarious, yet leon lchaso, USA 
(1983) Color, 105 min.

legendary, but fictional hero of the 20's 4/10 7:00 pm, loft poignant view of society's. shortcomings. Dreams unites the producer/director John Sayles, USAand 30's, Allen produces a rare, delicious Gilda team of El Super with Ruben Blades, the Writer/director Sayles captures theand inventive parody of the documentary (1946) B/W, 114 min. 
hottest star in latin music, to create a essence of 60's adolescence in this storystyle while at the same time constructing Charles Vidor, USA 4/15 7:30 pm, Snite brash and brassy Vinyl Jungle story that of an unlikely romance between two high·a witty allegory about the nature of human Glen Ford goes berserk when he finds La Guerre Est Finie does lor salsa music roughly what The school opposites. Newcomers Rosanna Ar·desire. out that his new boss, the casino owner, 
(1966) B/W, 121 min. Harder They Come did lor reggae. Lyrical quette and Vincent Spano light up the
has married Rita Hayworth, his former 
Alain Resnais, France and exhilarating. 
screen in this biting commentary on classgirlfriend. Film nair plot convolutions soon4/7 7:00 pm, Snite 

A weary, aging revolutionary, who has 
distinctions in America.

reach new heights as Ford's jealousy, lorBlade Runner 
resisted the Franco regime during his exile
both his boss and his girl, mounts to a
(1983) Color, 124 min. 
in Paris, returns to his comrades in Spain 4/22 7:30 pm, Snite
lever pitch. 4/28 9:00 pm, SniteRidley Scott, USA 
although he has become disillusioned with Le Boucher 
How Tasty Was My Little FrenchmanHarrison Ford stars in this intense, hard· 

the cause. Yves Montand gives a (1969) Color, 93 min.
4/11 7:30 and 9:30 pm, Snite (1971) Color, 80 min.
boiled detective thriller set in a stunningly 
memorable performance as Diego, an Claude Chabrol, France
The Official Story Nelson Pereira dos Santos, Brazilbleak version of the near future. Based on unsentimental man who analyzes his in· A psychological suspense thriller in
(1985) Color, 112 min. A slyly entertaining mixture of an·the late science fiction master Philip K. 
volvement with two women as coldly as which a series oiiJizarre murders take
Luis Puenzo, Argentina thropology, black humor, gorgeous color
Dick's novel, Do Androids Dream of Elec· 
he assesses the political situation in which place involving the town's butcher and
An immediate and powerful film drawn photography, 16th-century history, political
tric Sheep. With Rutger Hauer. 
he is enmeshed. schoolmistress, who are involved in a
from events in Argentina's recent past, allegory, and unsettling prophecy, the film
casual flirtation. A masteriullilm in the
The Official Story tells of a mother, who is a cool, sexy comedy on the subject of
4/7 9:15 pm, Snite tradition of Alfred Hitchcock. With
although firmly entrenched in her society's 4/16 7:00 pm, Social Concerns imperialism and cannibalism.
lnvestlgltlon Of A Citizen Above Suspicion Stephane Audran.
middle class values, is about to begin Mr. Deeds Goes To Town
(1970) Color, 114 min. 
questioning her role. She soon suspects (1936) B/W, 116 min. 4/29 7:30 pm, SniteElio Petri, Italy that her adopted daughter is a child of one Frank Capra, USA 4/23 7:00 pm, Social Concerns The Sorrow And The PityWinner of the Academy Award for Best of the "disappeared ones," political Gary Cooper is Longellow Deeds, who Young Mr. Lincoln. (1972) B/W, 260 min.
Foreign Film, Investigation is an extraor· 
prisoners of the military dictatorship who inherits twenty million dollars and wants (1939) B/W, 100 min. Marcel Ophuls, Francedinarily macabre thriller dealing with the were tortured"and often killed, and whose to spend it on the Depression poor. Jean John Ford, USA A monumental documentary coveringpsychology of power and obsession. 
children where taken and sold on the Arthur is appealing as the tough reporter Fine John Ford Americana with 
the German occupation of France during black market who worms her way into Deeds' heart, Abraham Lincoln (Henry Fonda) lacing WWIL Through interviews with those who4/8 7:30 pm, Snite 
discovering some of the mild eccentricities years of struggle as a beginning lawyer in 
lived through the occupation and throughEvery Man For Himself 4/14 7:00 pm, Snite that prompt a court hearing on his insani­the 1880's. With a light, humorous ap­old newsreel footage, Ophuls creates a

(1980) Color, 87 min. 
Latino ty. Deeds broke all Depression box-office proach, the film presents Lincoln as a sense of living in history, providing a fullerJean-Luc Godard, France 
(1985) Color, 115 min. records when it was released, and its cur· very average American, enamored of the 
sense of what it was like to participate inGodard's acclaimed return to pro· Haskell Wexler, USA rent popularity is attested to by its law and brilliantly gifted at using simple, the moral drama of an occupied nationminence, realized through the intersecting 

A poweriul drama about a special numerous revivals in fourteen languages. homespun philosophy to reveal elusive 
than we have ever had IJefore. 


Accent 
Friday, January 17, 1986-page 5 


Accidents trigger the kindness of the healthy 
ofQuaslmodo the bell ringer. you've hurt yourself, or been hurt. whimpering, either, as though they 
.. 

For over two weeks, I have They turn Into compassionte sym· were lacking in the class that shows 
Father Robert Griffin answered questions about how I pathizers as though sympathy were as grace under pressure. It doesn't got to be a battered priest. I answer a credential ofone's humanity hurt a ministry when a Catholic the questions directly and simply. enabling the unscathed poor to feel priest shows by his battle scars that 
Letters to a Lonely God 
After a while, I feel as though I were sorry for the highly-scathed victims he's just ail physically vulnerable as defending myself against the doub· with a dime In their pockets. This Is the ship to whom he offers the ters fishing to find out ifthere is why I cannot entirely regret that I balms In Gilead. 
I 
came back from New York with a come true as I ride, In cold sobriety, more to the story. A parishioner slipped on a sidewalk as though it I regret falling down. I don't want couple of black eyes, a large with a bloodied head, in an am­said: "I heard some wise guy pulled were littered with banana peels. anyone to think I can't take care of bump on the head with a cut that bulance to the emergency room of your walking stick from under you, For many years, I have gone to myself. Yet a feather lift in my path· was still bleeding, and a broken St. Vincent's Hospital, trying to and caused you to fall." New York, mingling with passersby way is apt to become a stumbling· tooth. Over and over, the conversa· appear whimsical over my disaster. "That's not true," I said. who would take no notice if I block, because I wasn't born with lion goes: "What happened to you?" "Docs this mean I'm not going to The parishioner said: " I wonder dressed like a Cabbage Patchcr and the nimble feet of Nurcycv. A fall on "I fell on the sidewalk, and struck get to the bookstore before it how such stories get started?" I preached to them from a soapbox. the head was a helpful as a fall off a my head." closes?'' I asked the paramedic refrained from telling her my belief Seeing my face stained with black horse In wishing me up to reality. I 
"You look like a giant panda taking my temperature. "What that old blatherskites create such and blue bruises, they strike up like New York; and now, after two bear. How does the: other fellow bookstore were you going to?" he rumors as a way ofenlivening the conversations as though we'd been emergency trips to St. Vincent's in look?" asked. He's checking, I. thought, to dull truth. introduced. less than eight years, I feel mystical 
"Uke a stand· in for 'Rocky IV.'" see IfI'm still rational. To tell the You do something nice for I'm reminded ofsomething I tics with that hospital that twice 
I wish I had a more interesting truth, I was scared ofbeing told that people when you let them see you think about every Easter: the helped me through trouble. Yet, story to tell: about a mugging on the my brains were falling out, and that bruised: you give them a chance to Apostles were tongue-tied In the like Nick at the end of"Gatsby," I subway, maybe, or a barroom I was on the verge ofbecoming a identify themselves as members of presence of the risen Christ, until was happy to come home to the brawl. The truth is, nobody laid a vegetable. the community ofsuffering. He established His Identity by Midwest. finger on me.; I did it to myself. I For the next five hours, until I Strangers met on the streets, In showing them his wounds. His The gas stations and 7·11 stores tripped or stumbled on some finally went home at 2:30a.m., the restaurants, airports, and super· glory traumatized them into won· seem dearer to me now than the roughness in the sidewalk. I fought medics at St. Vincent's played the markets, come up to ask: "Do you dering if they were seeing a ghost. Plaza Hotel and the glitter ofFifth to keep my balance, and then 1 fell. Good Samaritan to this banged-up feel as bad as you look?" They im· Seeing the scars In the flesh, they Avenue. Flying back Sunday on the My head hit the concrete almost as pedestrian. It was impressive to mediately start to tell you their own knew the Lord was back after His plane, I realized I've become a an after-thought. The numbness watch them at work as healers. You taies ofwoe, when they were bitter ordeal. Even God, wishing to Midwesterner as thoroughly as that started told me I had hurt more learn as much when you're kept simllarly disfigured by knocks on show us His face, has to let us see though my roots were here, though than my dignity. stretched out on a surgical table as the head. He has come to us over the road of I'm proud 1grew up in New 
In "Gatsby," Nick, who tells the one ofthe injured. I got the full The street people seem to claim suffering. England. I'm very happy and at story, remembers the East as an El treatment: stitches, ice packs, X· you as one oftheir own. The Roman Christians, wishing to be healers, peace with myself as a citizen ofthe Greco night scene In which a rays, needles drawing off blood that collar and the London Fog coat that make a mistake if they always hide Emerald City. That feeling ofcon­drunken woman in a white: dress is made my brow bulge. Everyone was you're wearing no longer symbolize their pain as though they were tentment to be back in PW with carried on a stretcher. I now impressed with the swelling that a difference between your lifestyle unacquainted with the indignities Darby O'Gillll was better than any remember the East as a nightmare closed my eye, giving me the look and theirs: they can only see that oflife. They shouldn't go around present Santa left. 
Victories of youthful Irish rekindle past gridiron glory 
Tbis is tbe 13th episode in Tbe Observer's press passes for Saturday's home game Zahm Hall were more commonly known. When Kelly stepped to the microphone, serial publtcattcm oftbe Notre Damefoot· against No. 4 Miami. She made a mental Human pyramids rose and fell in the the crowd cheered. Despite his winless first ball story, "Tbe Gipper's Ghost. "In last note to order extra complimentary hot festive atmosphere ofStepan Center. season, he had at least won a measure of lt)('ek's episode, Drllcb Reagan (tbe ghost of dogs, mustard and pickle relish for the press Genuine Irish flags · three bars oforange, respect from the fans for losing with dig· George Gipp) bad a blind date witb bis box. white and green ·waved madly about. Rolls nity. He had boosted his personal sometimes "nemesis," Tbe Observer's sports When the team returned from Pittsburgh, oftissue paper crisscrossed the air, unroll· popularity among the students in April, editor, Nicki Summers. they found that their fellow students had ing like so many jet streams in the upper when he and his assistant coahces entered a 
rediscovered their enthusiasm for Notre reaches ofthe dome. team in the springtime An Tostal Festival's Dame football. The Observer was filled When the massive east doors parted to Bookstore Basketball Tournament. His team 
Kelly's promise 
with features about the Pitt game. The admit the band, the fans ignited. Drums had soundly defc:atcd the opponents who school paper's sportswriters had even thundered as brass and silver instruments had taken to the court with a cruel but picked Notre Dame as their consensus turned up the volume with the Notre Dame clever.psychological ploy: each starter 
C 
oach Kelly's new strategy ofstarting the "upset special ofthe week." It was the first Victory March. Many ofthe seniors had wore the jerseys of the five college football youngsters worked like a charm. 
time in recent memory that The Observer 
opponents who had handed Coach Kelly his On Oct. I , the: Fighting Irish exploded. 
had risked its journalistic integrity by first five losses at Notre Dame. Kelly had Dutch Reagan scored three touchdowns. 
predicting an Irish victory. personally scored the first 12 unansweredHart Collins added two aerial strikes to 
The defense was especially proud ofa baskets.
Ryan O'Connor. Shenandoah Lee returned a 
story entitled "Our Lady's Tough Guys." Tonight, he was a real hero. 
Stanford kickoff 86 yards for a touchdown. 
Suspense built throughout the week. He finally settled the crowd and began toThe Irish beat Stanford 42 to 21 before a 
Each afternoon, the marching band would speak.
capacity crowd at Notre Dame Stadium. 
step off from its quarters in Washington "When I first accepted the job as your Hall. Their drum cadences echoed throug­head coach, I promised to do my best toThe defense showed remarkable im· 
hout the campus as they marched to the bring the program back to the standards it provement. All ofStanford's scores had drill field. enjoyed when I was a student at the Univcr·come from the air. The defensive front four 
"Football fever" had even infected the sity. It hasn't been easy, and we: have a long 
literally forced Stanford to pass. The four freshmen had surrendered only 60 yards on normally quiet classrooms of the Notre way to go. At the beginning ofthis season, 
Dame Law School. The dean reinstated its the players and coaches set a goal ofwin·
the ground. One of them, Mike Ploszek, previously recessed Friday lunchtime pep ning at least three games. After the opener
forced and recovered a fumble to set up Notre Dame's first score. rallies ... on a trial basis ofcourse. with Michigan, we privately wondered The upcoming night game was to be whether we could even beat the Little Notre Dame now owned a two-game nationally televised. ABC Sports had wanted Sisters ofthc Poor." winning streak. to showcase the Miami Hurricanes, early nearly forgotten the words, but with a little He paused until the laughter subsided. On Oct. 8, the Irish travelled to Pit· contenders for the national title. The prompting from the freshmen they did "When Dutch Reagan kicked that field tsburgh and raised their season record to network decided to air the Notre Dame fairly well. Everyone joined in the famous goal to tic Michigan State, we thought that 3·1·1. contest partly for nostalgic reasons, and chorus: maybe, just maybe, the luck ofthe Irish had planned a halftime feature on the Irish reversed direction. Well, it has. Tonight, coaching legends. Cheer, cheer for oldNotre Dame, your Fighting Irish ace 3·1·1!"The Glpper's Gho~ Thursday morning the Musco Ughting Wake up tbe echoes cheering ber name, Cheers. Co. trucks arrived from Muscatine, Iowa. Send a volley cheeron btgb, "Just before this pep rally ... just before Chapter H11rteen ~ They had illuminated every night game In Sbake down tbe tbunderfrom tbe sky, we came here to meet the greatest college Notre Dame Stadium since the first one Wbat tbougb tbe odds begreat or small? football fans In the nation ...." ever played under the lights at Notre Dame Old Notre Dame will wtn overall. More cheers. Notre Dame fans loved to 
The defense had another sterling perfor· · a 23·1 7 win over Michigan on Sept. 18, Wblle ber loyal sons are mt~rcbtng applaud themselves. mance, shutting out the: Panthers for three 1982. Onward to victory! " ... we had a team dinner. Your Fighting quarters. This week the defensive secon· Friday morning, the Goodyear blimp Irish have set a new goal for this season ... 
dacy had greatly improved; they had put In arrived to hover over the campus. Agroup ofco-eds had amended the final one we ace sure you will all support. In the: extra practice time on interceptions. Pitt's That evening, the marching band made two lines to sing, "While her loyal sons and next few weeks we plan to ground the Air only score came on a late fourth-quarter its circuitous route through the Notre daughters march on to victory." In the Force ... sink the Navy ... convert the field goal. Dame campus, assuming its traditional role noise, few heard them. Southern Methodists ... cage the Nittany 
Fighting Irish 24 · Pitt 3. as "pied piper" for the student body. Fresh· Onstage, the female cheerleaders Uons ...." 
Monday morning, Notre Dame acheived men, sophomores, juniors and seniors pranced to the music under the protection Kelly paused for a moment. national recognition • "also receiving votes" stormed out of the dorms and followed the ofthe maie cheerleaders, who batted down Would he dace say it? status In USA Today's "Top 25" college band to Stepan Center. any stray rolls oftissue paper cotcring their " ... and beat USC!!!" football rankings. Reagan was written up in Pep rallies were held at Stepan Center, a airspace. Total bedlam. a sidebar as the Midwest player of the week. gold-colored geodesic dome situated on The crowd let out a roar when Coach 
To be continued .•. 

By Tuesday, Notre Dame's sports direc· the northeast corner ofcampus. Inside, the Kelly, Collins, Reagan, and the rest ofthe From "The Gippcr'o G'-'," ""Pfrlrhl 198, by Rokn tor, Charlene Selleck, had her hands full concrete Boor was smothered with human players and coaches bounded onto the Quockcnbuoh. Publlohcd by O'Cocmor Publllhlna Co. kprin<ed by 
~rmlNion.

honoring requests from sportswriters for beings and Zahmbies, as the residents of platform. 
L,__________________________________ _ 
View~_o_i_n_t_________
F_rid-ay_,Ja-nu_ary_1_7,1-98-6--pa-ge-6 
~-~~--~----~~-­

Fraternities foster qualities ND does not need 
As an alumna of Notre Dame presently teaching at a decidedly Greek college (Lafayette College in Easton, Pa.,) and having attended a Greek-dominated undergraduate institution (St. Francis College in Loretto, Pa,) I must take exception to Tim Burke's call for the Greek system oflifestyle at Notre Dame in The Observer on Dec. 4. Burke, one of the reasons people think about John Belushi smashing beer cans into his forehead, etc., when fraternities and sororities are men­tioned is logical -it happens, and it happens often. 
Nancy}. McCreary guest column 
Lafayette houses 15 national frats and five national sororities, as well as a number of regional Greek organizations. St. Francis has seven national frats and two sororities. Rather than giving students a "sense of freedom, unity, and independence," they foster divi­sion, coersion, and a homogeneity which any academic institution, especially Notre Dame, doesn't need. Since much "social activity" (I use the term loosely to describe not just drinking, but getting p---eyed drunk!) is linked to Greeks, alternatives are unaccepted and virtually nil. In addition, there is tremendous peerpressure exerted bystudents on students to "belong" not just to any frat/sorority, but, to the "right" one. The psychological hazing is terrible; the physical hazing is worse. As an undergrad, two friends broke their 'code of silence' regarding hell nights -not a pleasant 
story. It was dominated by such interesting pasttimes designed to promote unity and sup­port as hanging pledges upside-down from rafters, hands tied behind backs, stuffing as many marshmallows as possible into facial orfices, ringing bells tied by strings to some­what more sensitive portions of the anatomy. All of this after eight to 12 weeks, nearly 10 percent of a collegiate career, being a "pledge" and watching grades and relation­ships turn to dust. My friends said they thought they would be different once they were brothers -then sheepishly confessed that they weren't, they couldn't , the system demanded it ofthem. 
Still, we never thought it was too bad, from what we could see -all of those stories of people really getting hurt when what we saw was just harmless fun. Unfortunately, during my junior year, a bright young sophomore hoping to go to med school, nearly failing two classs because ofpledging, slit his wrists in an attempt to end his life. No longer just harmless fun. And you call this "unity and support": Where were those understanding brothers who recognized tht the guy had been pushed beyond his limit? This is understanding and independence? 
Iffraternities and sororities were now what they were at their inception-groups ofpeople dedicated to academics, discussing recent books, authors, ideas, philosophies, theologies -then perhaps they would be a worthwhile unit of interaction. But then, as students, we probably wouldn't want them around since they wouldn't be a place where "students would know where to go for fun on weekends." The interhall system at Notre 
Dame, although perhaps limited (only per­haps) is still far superior a social system, fos­tering much more companionable support, unity and even some competition without the demand of a choice on the part ofunaffiliated sutdents, or the Insidious peer pressure to get into the "right" dorm. Of course, not all col­leges have these kinds of difficulties with Greeks; some have fewer, some have more. Lafayette spent about S900 one weekend be­cause of vandalism after a standard weekend "pub night/' not to mention the student upon whose car was dropped the contents of a 
room -primarily the furniture. I doubt if her insurance company saw that as positive social activity. 
Certainly, visiting a campus where Greeks abound is one thing. Living in it and with it is entirely something else. From experience, I've found out what. Having done both, I sug­gest, Burke, that you go elsewhere and do the same. Perhaps your opinion will not change, but I'd lay money that it would. 
Nancy]. McCreary, Ph.D., is a professor in biology at Lafayette College in Easton, Pa. 


Single-sex dormitories fortify wall between sexes 
Learning to appreciate the opposite sex is a beneficial and enlightening capability. Men and women have unique perspectives on the world. Because of the inherent differences and the unlike ways in which each is raised, both have valuable and distinctive viewpoints to offer the other. 
Greg Stohr 
life goes on 
Yet, beginning in early childhood, facets of 
society erect a wall, which separates males and females and prevents them from learning from each other. Parental rules, single-sex high schools, and learned prejudices all can help build this wall. Such a separator can be beneficial because it does prevent the im­mature misuse of interaction between the sexes, especially among adolescents. But to fully appreciate the world as adults we must eventually tear down the wall and begin to un­derstand the unique viewpoint of the op­posite sex. 
Here at Notre Dame, though, the wall stands tall and strong, preventing the growth of intersexual relations. A definite attitude of "us and them" still thrives between the sexes. Students think in terms of "the guys in my hall" and "the girls from-----Hall." Much ofthe blame for this continuing ignorance must fall on the single-sex residence system, which not only fails to tear down the wall but actually fortifies it. 

The University promotes overcoming this wall only to a limited extent. Limited visita­tion and 24-hour lounges do exist, but these privileges only dtip away at the wall and do so little to discourage the attitude of "us and them." The message to the students is that there is one type of people with whom they can associate fully and another type with whom they can only have limited association. 
Just as one learns from the dorm atmo­sphere how to live constantly with many ot­hers, seeing members of the opposite sex as parts ofone's constant life can help a person to learn from them. Having to go out ofone's way -either across the quad or through an often­busy telephone line, which leads to an often­unoccupied room -whenever we wish to communicate with someone of the opposite sex sharply reduces understanding between the sexes. Only through intense, constant relationships with the other gender can one truly see through the physical differences to learn from the other sex. Sadly, such relation­ships are hard to develop in a school where males and females are so set apart for all four 
years. 
Granted, single-sex dorms do allow for privacy, which many students value very much, and we must respect the rights ofthose who do not wish to relinquish that privacy. Living in a co-ed hall can only be an option for 
Garry Trudeau 

'MS. J J tAf.KlJ51NV!TfS Y(){} 7VA (j(){), THAT IS 5HO()J!NG OFH&R. ffJST-6/?AFFITI 
50 ORIGINAL. 

LATRIN&MtFAl.SATaJJ8 570P 'N' 
7H& OliO< 15

80P."fT'5 AN INVITIU/ON 
8RJUIANT! 

MY$!~·1N-I..AIA/! 
\ 

~ 
students. In addition, single-sex halls might indeed reduce w-hat some might consider ex­cessive social/sexual activity or even promote emphasis on book-learning by creat­ing a little more time for studying. Problems resulting from such distorted values or poor time management, however, likely would be minimal at a university where students must be considered responsible young adults even to gain admission. 
Despite these possible advantages, the present living arrangements force us to sacrifice another type oflearning-something so many ofus here lack -learning to overcome the wall, to appreciate fully the true value of the opposite sex. Perhaps it is simply a matter ofpriorities. 
I just think the University has its priorities in the wrong order. 
Greg Stohr is enrolled in the Freshman Year o.fStudies at Notre Dame. 
Something new 
Viewpoint would like to oc­cassionally highlight quotes &om faculty members, stu­dents and readers. So ifyou or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brillandy funny orclearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint. 
Campus Quote 
"The crowd wants it, you want it ... you're a better team than UCLA. Let's blow the roofoffandwin it." 
Richard "Digger" Phelps "Digger Phelps andNotre Dame Basketball" 1981 


Roses are red. 
But student florists sell them in all colors 
SHERRY GREEN 

featurt~s writer 

orking with flowers all day for 
financial aid certainly may sound ideal, especially when the alternative is serving food at the dining hall. Although everything hasn't always been coming up roses because of the Lafortune renovation and the inconvenience that causes, students working at Irish Gardens nonetheless are sniffing the sweet smell ofsuccess. 
...One of the most unique atmospheres on campus be­cause of the mixing odors of roses and ethanol. 

Run by student Manager Cathy Snakard and two assistant managers, Laura Chavez and Holly Henrikson, the florist shop's staffIs composed entirely ofstudents. 
Since making corsages and bou­quets may seem rather effeminate, I asked some of the guys to explain why they chose to work at Irish Garden.'!. 
working with flowers," employee Brian Peters said. 
"I work at Irish Gardens so that I can see which girl gets the most flowers, and I figure she's gotta be pretty wild, so I call her up," Keith Spatz said. 
"Who was it that said, stop and smell the flowers? Also it's fun and we love it here. We never leave, we stay after 5:30 until they drag us away," Marc Antonetti commented. 
Irish G:lrdens' staff may be working in one of the most unique atmospheres on campus because of the mixing odors ofroses and et­hanol. 
Colorful paper signs made by Peters are placed around Lafortune to direct customers to Irish Gar­dens' basement location where they may be greeted by the music of 
R.E.M. and the smiling faces ofGina Lee, Kathy Gancarz and Allison Macor. Macor, who Is responsible for dying many ofthe flowers, ex­plained the attitude ofthe workers at Irish Gardens. 
"We're all friends here, we're a family," she said. 
Aside from the peach roses and red-tipped carnations, the students' humorous approach to their work at Irish Gardens is refreshing. Everyone does everything, said the student florists. 
All of the students have been trained in their "art offloristry" and can make any arrangement from a simple boutonniere to the most 


Happenings-page 2 Friday, January 1 7, 1986 
Guest violinist to perform 
with South Bend Orchestra 
Special to The Obeerver 

P 
eople magazine calls him "The hottest new name in classical music," and the South Bend Sym­phony Orchestra will call him their guest Saturday night when Cho­liang Lin makes a special ap­pearance at the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Twenty-five-year-old lin is the guest violinist for the Orchestra's performance of Max Bruch's "Concerto for Violin and Orchestra 
r­
in G minor," which is known as 
r 
Bruch's greatest work. 
r 
Maestro Kenneth Kiesler will be conducting the concert. 
, 
lin has performed with the New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Chicago, Houston and Minnesota orchestras in addition to many others around the country. His performances abroad include con­certs with the London, Rotterdam, Montreal and Israel orchestras. His 
tone, technique and musical knowledge has been praised by critics and audiences around the world. 
A native ofTaiwan, lin is the only Taiwanese violinist to have been invited to perform in China, where he has made two concert and reci­tal tours and taught master classes. He also performs frequently in Australia and the Far East. 
lin began violin studies at the age offive and gave his first public performance when he was seven. At 12 he went to Australia to study at the Sydney Conservatorium, and at
r 
15 he entered thejuilliard School 
r 
to study with Dorothy DeLay. He 
jp"aduated in 1981. 
~ In 1977, Lin won first prize in the Queen Sofia International Violin Competition in Madrid. That same year he was chosen as a soloist for President Carter's Inauguration Day Concerts. He records under the CBS Masterworks label and his recording ofthe Mendelssohn and the Saint-Saens Third Concertos was named "Recording ofthe Year" by Stereo Review. 
Flowers 
continuedfrom page 1 
intricate corsages. When asked how they made the flower arrangements, "It's a trade secret, you know, just like the magicians" was the only reply. 
All flowers are bought wholesale in South Bend daily according to Snakard, and on a busy weekend over 1500 roses are sold. She added that the "happy people" ofIrish Gardens will be moving to take up residence in the former Interna­tional Student Lounge in a few weeks. LAs I left Irish Gardens customers were starting to flock into the tiny florist shop and one ofthe workers answered the phone. 
"Hello, Irish Gardens." "You'd like one rose to go?" "Yes, would you like fries with 
that rose or a Coke?" 
Un plays the 1707 "Dushkin" Stradivarius violin. The instrument previously belonged to Samual Dushkin, who was a friend ofthe 
People magazine .calls him "the hot­test new name in classical music. " .. . 
20th century composer Stravinsky. It was on this instrument that Stravinsky's works for violin were first performed. 
The Saturday concert begins at 
8:15 p.m. Beside "Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in G minor," included in the third concert ofthe Orchestra's 1985-86 season are Igor Stravinsky's "Card Game in Three 
Deals," which was first performed in 19 3 7, and, as a finale, Johannes Brahms' "Symphony No. 2 in D major." Completed in 1877, Brahms attributed the ease and grace ofthe melodies in this symphony to the charms ofthe Austrian summer resort where he was living. The four-movement symphony was first performed in 1877 by the Vienna Philharmonic under the direction ofHans Richter. 
Immediately preceding the con­cert, Maestro Kiesler will present his discussion series, "Concert Comments." This question-and­answer session is held on the main floor section ofthe Auditorium at 7:15p.m., and all concert ticket holders are invited to attend. 
For information and tickets, contact the Symphony office at 232-6343. Fifteen minutes before the concert, second-balcony stu­dent tickets go on sale at a reduced S4. 

Irish Gardens AssistantManager Laura Chavez, Bridget McCarson 
r----------------------------~ 

52929 u.s.31 tlorth 
__,-----.----­
With this coupon receive a Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price l Medium Pizza forSmall Pizza Price (Delloery Orders Only) After Spm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delloery Area) 
Offer expires Jan. 24
277-5880 
L----------------------------~ 
The Obocrvrr/Mary Sharon 1Vhl1r 

and john Libert busily prepare orders for flowers at the shop. 
Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 
·Oriental Express
Carry Out Dlnlng Room 272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~\0'0 

Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~'II 
on State Road23, Next to Kroger 
Mon.lk Weds. 107.off with dtning room coupon only 
Notre Dame Roelle~ vs. Miehigan 
MUGNIGRTII 
ND·SMC Class of '86 Come wateh the Irish Fri. or Sat. 7:30 p.m. 
-~ 


Happenings-page 3 Friday, January 17, 1986 
It's not a real 'Jewel' 
MIKE BEAHAN 
features writer 

I 
'm not going to lie to you. This movie is terrible. For a minute, I could have sworn I wa.~ watching a Roadrunnt·r cartoon. 
Movie revle~ 
Jewel of the Nile 
*' 
(out ottour) 

Who could blame me? A guy tries to catch 
...saturated by 
up to a train on a camel; but, wait a minute ­here comes a narrow train tunnel! His 
corniness ... 
stereotypical romp into the side ofa moun­tain Is a perfect example of just how trite and Omar (what a surprise!), who has turned out poorly written this film is. to be evil (another surprise). 
Uespite nict· special effects and some very Next, their wacky adventures take the fine acting performances, ".Jewel of the Nile" audience through the deserts ofAfrica. There fails because the action and the dialogue are are tribal dances, daring escapes, travelling thoroughly saturated by corniness and on the top of a train, avalanches, and other predictability. I almost expected the ending such originalities. The ending of the movie is ­fllm credits to read "Miss Roberts' third­straight out ofan old "Batman" script. The grade cla~s thanks you for your attention." Caped Crusader and Boy Wonder (Douglas 
This sequel to 1984's hit movie and Turner) are hanging from ropes that are "Romancing the Stone" stars Michael being gnawed by rats and weakened by acid. Douglas, son of act.or Ki.rk Douglas, as the The villian, ofcourse, ( Focas) must leave hackneyed hero. Costarring in the movie are while they await their death. Kathleen Turner as a romance novelist and Overall, the film fails to stir any interest at Danny DeVito ("Taxi") as Douglas' nemesis. all in the outcome because everyone already 
'Jbe action starts when joan (Turner) is knows what's going to happen. 
,. 
./ 
Above: Jack Colton (Michael Douglas) must wrestle with the chiefs son/or the hand ofloon Wl1der
-
•' ...~~ ~
..... 

(Kathleen Turner) in "The Jewel ofthe Nile., Left: Jack and loon argue with their archenemy, Ralph ---~~, (Danny DeVito), at a bazaar. 

jMovlesi'(OJ The Scoop jMusic IR 
•lbe Student Activities Board hosts 

•David Barton, assistant professor of 
"lUsky Business" tonight and tomorrow 
music at Indiana University at South Bend, night In the Engineering Auditorium. Tom 

Art 
and his students will present "An Cruise stars as the a.tlluent kid who turns 

Evening ofElectronic Music" tonight at 

his family mansion into a brothd with the 8:15 p.m. in Northside Recital Hall on the help of Lana (Rebecca DeMornay ), a call campus ofIUSB. The concert will include
•"A Connoisseur's Special," an
girl who becomes his girlfriend and original compositions by music studentsexhibit featuring 18th century Frenchbusiness partner. Newsweek's David Patricia Hershberger, Donald McLaughlin, drawings, can be seen this weekend in theAn..'ICn called the film "A fresh, hypnotic Chris Preissing and Paul Seegers and aSmall Print and Photography Gallery ofand very sexy movie ... a dreamlike piece created at the IUSB Sounds of Musicthe Snite Museum ofArt. The museum Isversion of a boy's sexual awakening, and Festival last October, edited and arran~dopen until 4 p.m. today and from 1 to 4like a dream it can tip unexpectedly from by Barton. The concert Is free to thep.m. tomorrow and Sunday.
frolic to fever to nightmare. Tickets to the 
public.7, 9 and II p.m. shows are n. 
•The South Bend Community School Corporadon Art Faculty Ex· bibition can be viewed in the Warner Gallery of the South Bend Art Center. For the first time since its move to the Cen­tury Center complex in 1978 the Art 
j
L--.,_
Mass_~

Center is sponsoring an Invitational 
exhibit which highlights the work ofthe 
art instructors within the South Bend 
... 

Community School Corporation. The The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart exhibit is free to the public. 
Church this weekend will be: 

•The exhibit "Africa and the 
Father Andre Leveille at 5 p.m. Americas: A Curator's Choice" can be (Saturday night vigil). seen until Sunday In The Snite's Fatherjames Flanigan at 9 a.m. O'Shaughnessy West Gallery. Examples of Father Andre Leveille at 10:30 a.m. 
the museum's finest paintings and Father Andre Leveille at 12:15 p.m. sculptures with ceremonial and ritual ..Africa andthe Americas" functions will be on display. A pictograp­The schedule for confessions in Sacred 
•Showing this weekend in the Woman's
hic painting ofthe Battle of the Uttle Big Heart Church is: 
Art League Gallery ofthe South Bend Art
Horn by a Crow Indian named White Monday through Saturday at 11:1 5 a.m. Center is a two-person exhibit ofrecent
Swan, a Dogon wooden figure from 1620 Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. 
work by Alan Larldn and Ron Monsma.
and a dated 17th century pre-Colombian Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m.
Monsma, whose work was recently In­
bone bloodletter from Xochicalco in Mexico are among the featured works. cluded in the 1985 Chicago and Vicinity Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt.show at the Art Institute ofChicago, is 
The show is free to the public. Museum known for his figurative pastel work. 
hours are from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15 
Larkin is the assistant professor ofart at
through Friday, I to 4 p.m. Saturday and p.m. in the Lady Chapel. 
Indiana University at South Bend. The
Sunday and Thursday evenings from 4 to 8 The rosary Is said daily at 6:45p.m. at 
exhibit is free to the public. the Grotto.
p.m.
"Risky Business· 



r-:~-------~---~-----..--------------· 
Happenings-page 4 Friday, January 17, 1986 
Barnaby's pizza best of casually good fare 
T 
JOHN AFFLECK English lettering which said "We Bid Ye /fiQtures writer Welcome!" In an incredible rush of brainwaves I realized that Barnaby's is done hough the sign on the front ofBarnaby's in the style ofa medieval English cafeteria. 
l 
Restaurant says "Barnaby's: The Family Drinks are served at their own counter, Inn," the flavor ofthe place inside is not so and prices are very reasonable. An especially much that ofa family restaurant as it is ofa good deal is Barnaby's Mug Club card. The collegiate pizza and beer joint. card costs 13 and with it one is entitled to a 
whole slew ofdrink discounts. With the card pitchers ofbeer are $2.20, down a dollar 
from a reasonable $3.20, and steins ofbeert = -~ Restaurant are only $.45. A member ofthe Mug Club 11 also gets a break on mixed drinks and
~ Barnaby's 

probably soft drinks as well, although when I
t ~ **j (out of tour) was there I didn't see anyone with a soft I drink in their hand. 
• As ;t pizza and beer joint, Barnaby's is 
successful. A down-to-earth atmosphere, moderate prices and above-average pizza combine to make Barnaby's a good place to eat without putting a heavy dent in one's wallet. 
At first glance, it's a little hard to tell ex~tly what motif Barnaby's is modeled after. On entering the restaurant, one is in the center aisle offour or five long aisles, with simple wooden booths seating two or four on either side. Barnaby's is spacious; this place could seat 200 customers without too much trouble. 
Ughting is soft. This serves to help the heavy wooden booths and brick walls blend 
I'd pass on the salad bar, which consists of crust, which is a little too thin and crunchy to together, camoflaging Barnaby's proper a plate ofpretty tired-looking lettuce handed handle several extra items. Nonetheless, cafeteria status. to the customer from behind the counter and Barnaby's pizza is the restaurant's safest bet; 
Food and drinks are prepared behind a any additions the customer wishes to make it is moderately priced and is a consistently counter that runs across the length ofthe from an utterly generic, and not very appetiz­worthwhile culinary experience. restaurant. At each booth, and at the back Barnaby's has a nice selection of ing, condiment bar. Aword ofwarning to perspective pizza counter, there are order-forms for sandwiches, hot and cold, on its "Bill of Far and away Barnaby's standby when it eaters. The pizzas are extremely hot. One sandwiches and pizza. After ordering at the Fare." Particularly commendable are the comes to food, however, is its pizza. On a should wait at least a couple ofminutes counter one is given a number, and when hamburgers, which are ofgenerous size and scale ofone to 10, Barnaby's 'zas rate a solid before chowing, if one doesn't want the roof one's number is called the order is ready to are broiled on the grill to order. The french seven. These pizzas feature a tasty, not-too­ofone's mouth scarred. be picked up. fries are closer to home-style than the spicy sauce and a generous supply ofcheese On the whole, I'd recommend Barnaby's, 
When I went to the counter I noticed (it average fast-food fries, and also deserve a and any other extra items one cares to order. at 3 724 Grape Road, Mishawaka, as a casual was pretty hard to miss) a large banner in old thumbs-up . The only drawback to Barnaby's pizza is its place to grab something to eat and drink. 
Bapp~ Z!st Birthda~ The Student Activities Board Presents ... 
RISKY

Laura Ann 
Fri and Sat 
BUSINESS
Jan17&18 
Love and Kisses 
7,9,11 pm Remember to bring $1 your sunglasses! 
. No Food or Beverages Allowed 
Actors for Africa present the play 
'Mass Appeal' 

ONCE A YEAR YOU CAN PURCHASE AT RETAIL SELECT ROSSIGNOL, K-2 DYNASTAR AND ELAN SKIS, AND FOR 1C WE WILL GIVE YOU A PAIR OF SOLOMON 
337 BINDINGS AND A 
PAIR OF LOOK POLES. 

Jan. 24-25 7:30p.m. 
THE 1C SKI SALE, 
DESIGNED FOR 
BEGINNERS AND 

Washington Hall 
INTERMEDIATES 
NOW GOING ONI 

Tickets $3.00 
($2.00 with ND/SMC I.D.) 
available at Student Activities office and ACC Box Office 
All Proceeds will go to the African Famine Relief Fund 
Sponsored by the Around the Corner Club. For further information call Student Activities 239-7308 
"ieVVP-~O~i~n_t______________________________________________F_ri_da~y~,J_a_nu_ary~_17_,_1_98_6_-~P_a~ge__7 
Christmas spirit should last throughout the year 
Chrismas has come,the goose was nice and fat and we were pleased to put a penny in the old man's hat. That was weeks ago, and now is the time to get on with life. No more holly and Ivy, no bright lights or bows and ribbons, or sugar cookies or Santa Clauses or nativity scenes. The empty, life-sized nativity scene by the grotto symbolizes that the season is over and we must move on. 
Jeanne Grammens 
ask not 

So, welcome back to the world of gray Januarys, schedule changes and late-night studying. Pretty depressing after such a jolly, happy season. People often call the weeks and months following the Christmas season, "the suicide season." Valentine's Day is supposed to curb this depression. Creating a holiday in the dreary months between Christmas and Spring gives people something to look for­ward to. But Valentine's Day is many long weeks away, and it does not compare to the all-encompassing Christmas season. 
'lbat's what it's all about though, isn't it? Christmas season is a time of anticipation. Everyont· is looking forward to something, whether it be new skis, a chance to be with the family, or the arrival of mankind's Savior. In this atmosphere of expectation, people are kind and loving to one another (unless they are Christmas shopping). Before the actual an­niversary of the birth of the Savior, human beings create the feeling ofChrist among us as they love their neighbors as themselves. People seem more willing to do for others, in a way different than the rest ofthe year. That is why humans love the Christmas season so much, and when it is over, a huge void rushes in. 
Isn't it ironic, that the love, the joy, the un­selfishness of Christ exists in anticipation of Christ, but ends after Christmas day? We spend at least four weeks preparing for Christ's day, but as soon as the scent of fir starts to fade, people go back to the regular pattern of life. As quickly as the Christmas decorations are stripped away, so too does the warm feeling of the holidays get stored away until next year. 
Five weeks ago, the life-sized nativity scene appeared at the Grotto. As I stared at it, I finally realized what was missing. The baby Jesus was yet to be placed in the crib. Since the baby Is firmly glued to the miniature at home. I never reali-.et1 the Church waits until Christmas day to lay the babe in the manger. At the time, I was enjoying the joy of the season (finals had not started), and I began to think of how backwards we are about Christmas. Seeing how empty and barren the manger was before Christmas day, helped me realize how barren and empty we would all be if Christ never came. Yet, just as the child Is laid in the manger, we all start to feel the Christmas spirit fade. We've done all our merry-making, all our gift giving, all our extra­special Christmas loving. Logically, the celebration should start the moment the child is laid in the manger. The Christmas season should begin on Christmas Day. 
As things stand now, life does not end after Christmas day. After the immediate sadness, people get back into the swing of things. People find things to look forward to, and they contnue to love, laugh and learn. But they also continue to pass each other by, to "look out for themselves," to forget the feeling of Christmas. During the five-week Christmas season, people seem to be more aware ofeach other, as they unite in anticipation. Hugs and smiles and "Merry Christmas" abound. Christmas cards to long-lost friends and relatives drive the postal service crazy. Mot­hers find time to bake dozens of Christmas cookies. Even brothers find time to buy Christmas presents (as long as sisters will wrap them). People find time for people. People are aware of people. People love people during the season ofChristmas. 
Christ is definitely among us during the season of the anniversary ofhis birth. Yet, it Is not appropriate the season following His birth should be the "suicide season." It would make sense if in the weeks or days prior to Christmas, an awareness ofthe void existed; if we looked to the empty manger and waited for the joy and peace ofChrist to be among us. But the days, week and even months following Christmas day should truly be the time to celebrate. Bring out the holly, the Christmas tree, the presents, the lights and especially the mistletoe, on Christmas day. If we could feel the presence of a great love during the sludgy winter days, the drizzly spring rains, the carefree summer months and the crisp autumn season, then the expression of the miracle would not be confined to a five-week period. The Christmas season could be a year­round event. 
jeanne Grammens is a senior government and communications major at Saint Mary's. 

Despite all the tragedies, 1985 was a year of hope 
What will we remember of the year 1985? 
1985 was undoubtedly the year of ter­rorism. Nameless and faceless, it struck out at Innocent people to attain its goals. Terrorism struck a jetliner on a flight from Athens, a cruise ship In the Mediterranean, a govern­ment building in Bogata, Columbia, and the airpons In Rome and Vienna. Terrorism claimed 721 lives in the year 1985, among them an I I year-old American schoolgirl and a 68 year-old invalid. 1985 was a violent and bloody year. 
Eric M. Bergamo here's to future days 
Nature claimed her own victims during 1985. An earthquake decimated Mexico City, killing thousands and leaving scores home­less. Three hurricanes hit the seacoasts of the United States. Although there were few deaths, damage was estimated at $1.5 billion. But the mightiest killer was a volcano in Colombia which in the span of only a few hours killed over 25,000 people. 
1985 was the worst year for aviation fatalities. A Japanese Air Unes 747 carrying 524 passengers and crew slammed into a mountainsidt". Miraculously, four people somehow survived the devastating crash. An 
Air India 747 crashed into the Atlantic, a tar­end the famine there. By the end of 1985, get of a suspected bomb planted by Shikh ex-. progress had been made in feeding the people 
tremists. Recently 248 servicemen and women of the 101st Airborne Division lost their lives when the Arrow Air charter jet they were coming home in crashed near Gander, Newfoundland. 
Violence Increased in South Africa as blacks demonstrated against apartheid. Over 1,000 died in violence related to apartheid. Presi­dent Botha declared a state ofemergency and even limited the freedom of the foriegn press to cover the demonstrations. In America, stu­dents protested at colleges across the nation to force divestment in companies doing busi­ness in South Africa. "Sun City" became the protest song against apatheid. 
But there were also signs of hope for the future in 1985. 
For the first time in six years, the leaders of the United States and the Soviet Union met face to face to discuss the problems facing them. Ronald Reagan and Mikhail Gorbachev held private meetings during the two-day summit in Geneva, and the two professed to work more closely to end the arms race. 
There was the celebration known as Live Aid in 1985. In an effort to raise money to help alleviate hunger in drought-stricken Ethiopia, concerts were held on the same day in Lon­don and Philadelphia. Performers played to capacity crowds at both locations as Uve Aid raised millions of dollars to send to Africa to of Ethiopia, though much more still had to be done. 
In 1985 there was a new medical worry called AIDS. Halley's Comet returned to the heavens after a 76-year absence in 1985. Space shuttle flights became so common as to be routine and proved that man can build ob­jects in space. 
1985 saw the San Francisco 49ers crowned Super Bowl champions. 1985 saw the cagey Wildcats of Villanova upset the mighty Hoyas ofGeorgetown for the NCAA basketball cham­pionship. The Kansas City Royals took the World Series Championship away from the St. Louis Cardinals. But there was also the dark side of sports-the drug problems, the point­shaving scandals, and a riot at a soccer match that killed 38 people. 
We went "Back to the Future" in 1985 and made that movie the year's biggest hit. 
Sylvester Stallone staged a two-man assault, as Rocky and as Rambo, on the movie box offices of America. Bruce Springsteen and Madonna were the biggest stars in the rock-and-roll scene. NBC became the top network due to the success of Bill Cosby and "The Cosby Show." Steven Spielberg seemed to be everywhere. If he wasn't producing movies like "Back to the Future" and "Goonies," he was working on his first television series, "Amazing Stories," for NBC. "Amadeus" won the Oscar for best picture. 
What kind ofa year was 1985? Charles Dick­ens may have stated it the best. 
"It was the best oftimes, it was the worst of times." 
May we hope that 1986 brings more ofthe better times for all ofus. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a sophomore interna­tional relations major at Notre Dame and a regular viewpoint columnist. 

P.O. Box Q 
Blockade may alleviate future Libyan terrorism 
Dear Editor: 
Mary Healy's article ofJan. 16 in The Obser­ver describes the United States' inability to ef­fectively combat the terrorist threat to American citizens . 
It is agreed that random, or even highly­selective strikes by American military forces would involve the deaths of many innocent civilians. As a civilized nation, we must notal­low ourselves to become so vindictive as to defeat our original purpose and lower our­selves to barbarism. We cannot stand by and watch our citizens become victims of suicidally-fanatic terrorists. 
The fact remains, however, that the proper course ofaction is not to attempt to conduct a "surgical strike." This threat to our well-being has recently been projected into our own country by libya's leader, Khadafy. A similar threat from another nation, had it not been employng the ambiguous spectre of ter­rorism, would have been met head-on by the United States. 
The agents ofterrorism are preparing them­selves for war against our country. We do have the means to prevent these criminals from being aided and abetted by other nations. The United States could blockade Ubya until it sur­rendered the terrorists that we know to be there. This would defuse the situation by ap­plying economic pressure on the country wit­hout having to coax our allies to end trade. We would end It for them. Any casualties then en­countered would be a result ofmilitary action taken against us and would not Involve civilians . 
The support of the Soviet Union in this ac­tion would be welcome, but not necessary. We successively used a blockade against the Soviet Union in the Cuban Missile Crisis. The current situation demands that we take action to head off the spread of terrorism and anar­chism before It Is too late. 
Michael Feeley ZahmHall 



P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (279) 239-5303 
The Observer is the 1ndependent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strallon of e11her institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Unsigned ed1tooals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­ranes. letters and the lrlSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expreSSion of varying opinions on campus. through letters. is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Manii(Jing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. WoH 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ....... ............. Dav1d StepheOIIch Controller... . ..... William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ....................... ...... Jim Hagan Systems Manager.. .. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager . ..................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

The Observer Friday, January 17, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestlingteamwru host Illinois State Uni­versity tomorrow at 2 p.m. at the ACC Pit. -Tbe Observer 
The ND men's and women's swim teams 
will travel to Canada this weekend to face Western Ontario. The meet is scheduled to take place tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. -The Obser­ver 
The ND trackteam will open up its 1986 indoor track season tomorrow when it travels to Ann Arbor, Mich. to take part in the Michigan Relays. -Tbe Observer 
Any Off-Campus studett:t interested in playing 
on an· 'A' league interhall basketball team should contact Kevin Hamer at 272-0416 by Monday. -Tbe Observer 
NVAaerobicsfor men and women will begin Wednesday in Gym 2 of the ACC. Any interested student or staff member may call the NVA office in the ACC for times and entryfees..The Observer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast Notre Dame men's basketball and hockey action this weekend. Coverage of the NO­UCLA basketball game tomorrow will begin at 2:10p.m. with "Let's Talk Basketball," hosted byJim Gibbons. "A Series to Savor", a look at the Irish-Bruin rivalry, will also precede the play-by-play with Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers. Joe Malvezzi will anchor coverage of tonight's and tomorrow's NO-Michigan, Dearborn hockey series, beginning at 7:20p.m. with "The Lefty Smith Show." -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts Boxing workouts for this year's tournament will begin Monday at 4 p.m. in the Boxing Room of the ACC. All Boxing Club members and anyone interested in boxing in the Bengal Bouts Tournament should attend. For more information call Kevin O'Shea at 283-3182.. Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting for all members Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building. For more information call Chris Nye at 236-4400. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND fencing team needs someone mechani­cally inclined who wants the opportunity to earn a monogram and be a part of the fencing program. A knowledge of fencing is not necessary. Those interested should call Coach Mike DiCicco at 239­5585. -Tbe Obser11er 
A Schick SMC basketball tourney, for 
three-on-three teams, will be held beginning Feb. 5. Rosters can be picked up Monday at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned byJan. 29. No present or former varsity basketball players may participate. The winning team will go to regional play with the championship game being held in an NBA arena For more informa­tion call the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
A SMC doubles racquetball tournament will 
begin Feb. 3. Rosters can be picked up Monday at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned byJan. 29. For more information call the Angela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
A SMC co-ed volleyball tourney will begin 
Feb. 3. Teams must consist of 3 men and 3 women. Rosters can be picked up Monday at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned with a no entry fee by Jan. 29. For more information call the Angela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski equipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no reservation is necessary. Any students, faculty or staff members in­terested should call 239-6100 for additional information.-The Ob­
server 
Awhite water rafting trip to Utah over spring break is being organized by NVA. Anyone interested should attend a meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Football Auditorium ofthe ACC. For more information call the NVA office. -The Observer 
A scuba diving course consisting of 15 hours of instruction will be held by NVA. The course is open to students and staff. Anyone interested should attend a meeting Tuesday at 6 p.m. in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more information call the NVA office -The Observer 
.l{ed Cross water safety courses in water safety instruction, lifesaving, and lifeguard training are being or­ganized by the NVA. For information on class times, costs, and prere­quisites call the NVA office in the ACC by the end ofthe week.-The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 12 
tel Hatcher and Corey Gaines and 
freshman phenom Jerome 'Pooh' 
Richardson.' Hatcher puts in 15.4 
points a, game for UCLA, while 
Gaines adds 7.1. 
Richardson, perhaps the finest point guard in high school basket­ball last year, already has established himself as UCLA's third-leading scorer, contributing 9.6 points. 
"Pooh is a team player and a win­ner," UCLA coach Walt Hazzard says. "He has the potential to be a great player here and is a magician with the basketball." 
Tomorrow's game will be a reunion of Richardson and Irish freshman guard Mark Stevenson, Philadelphia's top two players last season. 
Notre Dame, 9-2, will by trying to rebound after Monday night1s 80-76 overtime defeat at Brigham Young. Despite that loss, Phelps feels his team is playing well right now. 
"You've got to be pleased with what we've done so far," says the Irish coach. "We're in a good rhythm right now and we'd like to keep that going. We've still got plenty of chal­lenges ahead of us, so we have to continue to improve and keep playing with the intensity we've had the last couple weeks. 
"I like the way we're playing. We can bring (Scott) Hicks, Ooseph) Price and Oim) Dolan off the bench and not lose anything. In fact, we might almost get better." 
Notre Dame averages an im­pressive 24.2 points and 14.5 rebounds off its bench after 1 1 games. 
IRISH ITEMS -The starting time of the Notre Dame-Marquette game on Feb. 1 at the ACC has been switched to 3 p.m from the 4 p.m. time listed on many schedules. The change was made to accomodate the Television Enterprise Network, which will be syndicating the game. The Irish rank second only to Syracuse in rebounding dif­ferential in the latest NCAA rankings. David Rivers con­tinues to lead the Irish scoring at­tack, scoring 18.6 points per game. 
Th•· Ohserr·er :-o;otrt· Damt· otfin·. lot Jtt·<.l on th<· th•r<l floor of l.ah>flum· 
~tu<.lt·nt <t·ntn. Jcn·ph <'·""fit·<I Jdn·rto"n)( from') J m unto I 1 p m ..\lon<.IJ\ 
throu)(h l·n<IJ\ I ht• I lhserr·er ~Jill I \IJn ·, offin·. ft>t att·<.lon tht· 1h1r<l floor ol 
IIJ)()(Jr <.ollt")(<" ( t·ntt·r. dtt"t"ph dJ"ifit·d' from 1!. ~0 p m until .~ p m ..\I on­
day thou)(h ~ntla' lka<llln<' fi~r nt·xt-tla' <·la"ilk<.l, h ~ p.m .-\11 da"ifit·<.l, 
mu't ht· pr<·pa•<l.t·llhn on pt·"on or h\ mall ( IJJr)(<" ;, 10 <"l"nh p<·r fin·,·harac

Classifieds 
''"" t·r <Ia' 

Loll at a baaaketl*l gam&-A Moniaaay ATIENTION T-CLUB: MC and V-DUB THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR ANOTHER ,w.,.,DT bUeball cap. U"'-ayou lve in invite all new and uled members to the MIRACLENOTICES the DT you can't w-it 10 why not call· L---_W_A_NT_E_D____.,11 I.___P_ER_SO_NA_L_S___J 
inlamoua hot tub where everyting ia aure Joe at3436 or atop by room 13. and natural. Southern car where the aun never aelland happy llwaya ri-at 7. 
PREGNANT? HAPPY BELATED B-DAY STEPHANIE
Los:r;·8lue.i:AN·o:s··eNo.suiTcA"Se
································································ NEED HELP? LEGAL IN IOWA! FAN OF NS, HERBIE, 
HELP WANTED ON UNITED LIMO SUNDAY NIGHT. INI­w~;rt;;d; ...iii~...Fri;;;;;:..·r;;;rt..·ii;;"·i;;g;d t,;iN:·;··;;·tr;;~·;;;~i·~~v~~~-;;h~-;;~·~·;;b;;i. 
cau 234-()363. 24-hr. hoUine, counaeHng RAY, & ALL THE OTHER MEN IN YOUR 
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID lor TIALS G8B ARE ON IT. PLEASE CALL ton your 5011 deaerveato gat into them? 
r-ch aecretary c•l233-3432 & free pregnancy teata. LIFE. ALARM CLOCK LOVER, CAR 
~ng mall at homel Information, GREG3489. Just wondering. Love Rullly 
WOMEN'I CAlliE CENTEIII OWNER. HAVE A BOX OF POPTARTS 
lend aell-addr-..d, lllamped envelope. ·······;;.AA";:·;:it:ie.Gi:WH"ic.A"ii:ris;:··..... 
iiiAm..i>A"itT:YiiiO..MiEN··c;;;··ilolitE TO CELEBRATE! LOVE, YOUR Aaaociatea, Bo• 85, ~. New Jeraey LOST-GREEN ARMY FIELD JACKET at CALL 259-3187 ROOMIES 07203 BRIDGET'S during finale WMI<. Name . INTeFies:re·r;··..··ii-i······iNreFi:iiA"R"&i;; DAMEfll 

In you tii'M of .-.having .._..,

................................................................ i.,.;de. Only winter coat. Call 287-................................................................ 
CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP? CALL 
TYPING 5425:Pete. ROOM WANTED glrta at your l*lf•? Would you Hka to
SHEILA-19850R KEVIN-1883. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DAN! EVERYTH­
Improve The ltatlo? Through.Mclde llolla Clole to campua. Private bath, kitchen ING IN MODERATION!! HERE'S TO AII4-INI LOST Gold ring with inltiala ML engraved raln,81eat,en-and Emil,th-g1r1e

laciitiea, parking apace. Max $200/mo. HUNGR"v?..cd·veiiaw·s·liai.i'AR"ii-ie GREAT 21ST YEAR. LOVE, MOM AND 
on the lace. It Ia of imm-.rable aen­like to PARTY AU THE llMEI Within
PI-call Dave Jimenez 234-2000, eJCI. 
at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Spm-12pm
................................................................ timentalv.rue,andaganeroua-.!wiU 717 alter 9 p.m. mlnutaa you _, hlva a party at your DAD. 
Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday;Typing Avalllllle be offered ~ found. H you have any in­3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. -·IIyou know h-to party,..want rHe··;;A"r;;;.·ei-iiN:·i-ioose·~-;;;,;
287-4082 formation regarding lhia ring, P'-con­to know youfll Cell 12111 or and •Ito ill New Year'a buh Sat. 1/18.
1m,anytlmel

tact Marl.ut215 F.tey, 4053. ~··s;;ii~··t,;~~;;;·-;;,··A;i··a;;;;;;;;;;;~·-~N 
Come and ring in the new year the HAP­

................................................................ -cUP AND lAVE FOR FUTURE
FOR SALE be having a poat-Chriatmaa llle in PENIN' HOUSE way! 
·s;·o:S360·w;idy/lij;"M;.iii;;g·Ci~•i· LOST: ONE PAIR OF GRAY WOOL REFERENCE-
O'Sh~g. Great Hall from 10:00 a.m.-3:00 
Noquotaal GLOVES IN O'SHAG. PLEASE CALL p.m. on Thurs., Jan. 16th and Fri., Jan.
Sincerely inter811ed ruah aell-addreeaed 288-4753. IT'S BEEN VERY COLD WIT­
17th.
envelope: Su~. POBox 470CDD, HOUT THEM. FieNr..Oi:i..sA"le..3.8oFiM.'··;;c;usE·w. Hev..eii"iii:i'vaoovi..o;;;;:··M;;;;··;~ PREPARE YE THE WAY! IT HAS BEEN 
Rembrandt Celendara-$4.00 
DECLARED THE ADVENT OF ST

Wood8tock, IL 80088. ................................................................ back and having a party tonight. Juat
ANGELA 232-3535 Many art poatera and art cataloguea on PATRICKS DAY IS UPON US. IN 2
LOST HELP II I loll my HP-15C calculator thought you'd want to know. 
.............ooiiERNMeNr·JOiiS:··............ Ale
the -'< before flnall fall M111811er, in ~..···;;;········..·;;;..···F>-;;;_.....;;.·,j;~:~ SHORT MONTHS ALL IRISH MUST PAY $16,04o-$58,230/yr. Now Hiring. the Mldf1 Building, prollably rm 212. II you U.I./L.An.lc:en "*·CeU Rob 2106 :;~·;;::c::p;:.;;;;;;~~;-~;·u;~·:.:w~a~·:;:;,;; HOMAGE TO THE PORCELAIN GOD. Cd BOS-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 lor cur­found it (and eomeone mull have)~. .:iA"Piiv.................................................21 Club."Venice is draining at this very BEGIN TO PREPARE NOW FOR THIS 
rent federal lat. pleae, PLEASE return It to loll & found minute!!I 
ALL IMPORTANT HOLIDAY OF PIIEGiparty ... party ... party ... !!! 
HOLIDAYS. ONLY 59 DAYS UNTIL THE on the 2nd noor of LaFortune. 1know lam

suiAM"iiR".......,........CAReeR".......:Kiii8 [i~;;;b;;·;~;;;~··;;;·ir;~;;;b;;""j~;;;·2"i"i";;;;;;;~ WORLD TURNS GREEN! BE CREATIVE 
a geek, but I juat can't Uve without it, Hie G;;i··;.,;·N·~..v;;t;··ii·;;;.;;;:..~·:i;;;i~··~i 
IN YOUR PREPARATION. 283-2043.
AVAILABlE! hMioat d meaning lor me. TICKETS -Dumbo try to fly thla Saturday only In 
Reaort Hotola, Cruiae Unera & Amu... 359Zahm ..............:ioi"NN.Mosciiw:A.............. ment P-are now ac:cepling ~.,. ......8ENIOiiMENiOM:I£NICiM'""""· 
tiona lor employment! To ..-ve an Ne"Ei:i..3.lici:A·:rici<e:rs·&ADi:¥;··cAii THA.NK"vou·s:r.":ilii:ie.:::rwic.iiov'Eiii.. ICOULD NOT AFFORD AUGHT IILUE 
ITUDIENTI QRADUAllNG IN MAY OR STENCILED CHEVY LUV FOR YOUR~cation and information, Write; 283-1940. 
DECEIIBEIII 1111 WHO HAVE NOT
FOR RENT 
BD. I lllU LUV YOU ANYWAY. REGIITEIIED FOR IPfiiNQ
T curiam Information Servicea HAPPY BIRTHDAY! THE WHITE

P.O. Box 7411 Hlhon Heed leland, SC foraale Hey Weavie Co. Just wanted you to know,
IEMEITEII ON-CAMPUI INTEII­
TRUCK MAN. 

28828. B-BALL TICS For .• m~n who hit his peak at ~ge 8,
VIEWI IHOULD DO 10 AT THE 
................................................................ APNiriAeN:r·A"iiA"iLA8Le..N·.·r;:A"r;;:s:i senior aectionl You re still looking great! Now you've hit ............r;c;p·;;AR·uv.w!E"i(·:iiii····........
CAREER AND PLACEMENTTYPING OR 2 PERSONS CALL TOM 281»483 ROW 11 cuahlona the big 21, Time to start the fun! And If
IERVICEI OFFICU, LOWER LEVEL 
"GRAND OPENING-FARLEY'S" 

CALl. CHillS AMY 277-6807 anyon~ lrowna upon what you do, Juat
OF IIIEMORIAL UIIIIIAIIIY, BY TUD­JANUARY 19-25 za.wtl7. 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 272-reply, 'EVERYBODY LOVES ME BABY 
DAY, JANUARY 21.8306 NEED UCLA TIX WHASSA MATIER WHICH YOU"! Love: 
................................................................ c.
Martha4308 
o"M"i1001£;·c:Oi:o'iiiE!R"·a·uauCiA·. LisA"···vE'iiii...-Ti-iA"Ni<···vou...FoR"..:r;;e
Share 3 BR houae with 2 non-amoklng CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.l. 31 N., 1 
.. .............ii.R8A'N.j;i:.iJiiO.Eiis............... 

GIFT!! MJ IILOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
grad llludenll. 

$130 per month plua utilitiea. C8ll 232-Nee·r;·;;·s:ruoeN·;:·oFi"iiA"-Tix.'To.uci:A Don't forget to tum In your ratlec:tlonLOST/FOUND I HAP;;;;.···2·1~i...MeCi!···i:oii·e···Ai:wAvs
8327, early or late. 
GAME. 
~. BRIG ' 

································································ CALL 277-2839. LOGAN VOLUNTEERS: WELCOME Due Jan. 17 at the Center for loclll
L;;;·~·iij;;;;~·310ii";i"it;LSij 

ROOMMATE NEEDED: grad atudent BACK! YUP, WE'RE STARTING THIS Con-!hriY;;.:;·;.;..,;;·~~h·s;·::i~;i~: ..................... 
game either in the .-lum or on GAlen­preferred. two blocka from eampua ,..... wiu:·r;Avaio&uci<s·;;Qi:i·;··s;:lioeNT Follow-up the Ub1wy
WEEKEND. BOWLING FRIDAY AT 3"45 -'on In field. I Cllrl polltively idenllly. P1eMe her/dryer, 175.00permonth. Wllprorate TICKET TO THE UCLA GAMEl CALL RECSATURDAYAT9:00.NEWVOLl.IN: auditorium on Jan. 11at 7 pm :;;;~~;:;;;;;;·&i:·:i~;; .................................. nllllm. Cell Mary Carol at 284-5242 lor Jan. Cell Murphy 289-5230. 1173 TEERS WELCOME. 
·-·····..........................................;:;........... 

· TheObse~r Friday, january 17, 1986-page 9 

The Officers of Mellon Bank Corporation request the pleasure ofyour company at a Mellon Corporate Briefing on: 
Tuesday January 21, 1986 
7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
_Alumni Room, Morris Inn 
Mellon Bank 
tl 

An equal opportunity employer, MIF. 
-~---~-~-~--------­
The Observer Friday,January 17, 1986-page 10 
Women's basketball team meets Detroit in North Star matchup 
ByLARRY BURKE 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team will be looking to open a successful "second season" tonight when it takes on the Titans of Detroit at 7:30 in the ACC. 
Tonight's game is the North Star Conference opener for the Irish, and Mary DiStanislao's squad will need to rack up some wins in conference play ifit is to attract any post-season tournament opportunities. 
Tonight's game is the second of a five-game homestand for the Irish. On Sunday, Notre Dame will take on Boston University at 2 p.m. in the ACC in a non-conference game. before closing out the homestand with North Star foes LoyolaOan. 23) and DePaul Oan. 26). 
The Irish currently stand at 7-5 after a convincing 75-42 win over Marquette in the ACC Monday night. 
Notre Dame beat Detroit twice last season, enroute to a 13-1 North Star record and a runaway con­ference tide. Sophomore center Sandy Botham scored 2I points in Notre Dame's 76-62 victory at Calihan Hall, and the Irish com­pleted a sweep of the season series with a 66-53 win at the ACC. 
Coach Dewayne Jones' Titans will bring a 7-4 record to the ACC tonight. Detroit was I 7-11 overall and 9-3 in the North Star Conference last season. In their conference 


juniorforwardLavetta Willis (30)goes upfora layup in a game against Mtamt over break. The Irish women's basketball team wtll play host to Detroit in the ACC at 7:30. Larry Burke previews the game at left. 

FREE TRAVEL••. 
CAMPUS CONNECTIONS wants campus 
repreaent~tives to promote SPRING 
BREAK trips to Florida, Bermuda, 
Bahamas, and more. Highest commis­
sions paid plus FREE TRAVEL. Call 
toll-Free 800-251-TAIP (Nationwide) 
800-341-TAIP (MASS only) 9-Spm 
THERE'S STILLTIME TO PREPARE 

Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 
hockey and executed well. I don't 
know (why the team played as it did 
on the trip). I don't know if it was 
too long a layoff or, if it was motel­
itis, being on the road such a long 
time and playing that many games." 
Notre Dame's first stop was at the Syracuse Invitational Tournament on Dec. 27 and 28. In their first game, the Irish dropped an 8-7 deci­sion to the Red Raiders ofColgate, a team that beat the Irish last season, I3-4. Tim Reilly paced the Irish at­tack with a hat trick while. Brent Chapman added a goal and four as­sists, and Tom Mooney had two goals and two assists. Colgate's Gerard Waslen and Mark Holmes led the winning effort with a pair of goals each. 
Next up for the Irish were the Broncos of Western Michigan. The Broncos showed the Irish why they are currently ranked tenth in the na­tion by soundly beating them, 11-2. Western Michigan scored six times in the first period and kept the Irish off the scoreboard until the third period when Reilly netted a pair of goals off Bob Theabeau assists. Reilly's five goals led the tourna­ment in scoring, and he was named to the all-tournament team. 
Notre Dame spent the New Year's holiday in Plattsburgh, N.Y., where they played two games with the Car­dinals of SUNY-Plattsburgh. New Year's Eve was less than joyous for the Irish as Plattsburgh beat them, 10-7, and came back on the first day of '86 to drop the Irish, 15-7. Bob Thebeau had hat tricks in each con­test, the third and fourth of his career. 
Despite the poor showing on the trip, Smith said these games were necessary for the future of Notre Dame hockey. 
"We knew what we were going against. The competition was better than what we had run into before, but these games were important to show people where we are and where we want to go." 
The Irish look to get back on the victory trail this weekend against Dearborn, a team that swept them 

opener in Cincinnati on Monday, 
Detroit trounced Xavier, I02-67. 
The Titans have three players with double-figure scoring averages: junior forward Cassandra Pack at 
21.7 points per game, junior guard Daphne Smith at 21.0 points per game, and junior center Mary Kay Whalen at I0.5 points per game. 
"Detroit is a very solid team with good talent," says DiStanislao. "This is our first conference game of the season and it will be a crucial game for us to go out and play hard. Detroit will be tough with Pack at forward and Smith at guard. Those are two ofthe top players in ourcon­ference and I expect them to play very well. 
"Whalen has added a lot to this team with her scoring and rebound­ing. She's averaging eight rebounds a game and she will be a factor under the boards. We will have to play a solid game for all 40 minutes if we want to come away with a win." 
Notre Dame leads the overall series with Detroit 4-1, with Detroit's only win comingat Calihan Hall in 1984 by an 85-80 score. 
DiStanislao should have her whole squad reasonably healthy for tonight's contest, including fresh­man Heidi Bunek, who has missed the past month with a stress fracture of the right leg. Bunek came back in Monday's game to play II minutes, contributing four points. Before her injury Bunek was averaging 13 points and five rebounds per game. 
home record of 5-1-l. The team is also finally healthy but will play wit­hout Chapman, who received a game disqualification in Plattsburgh and, under the rules, is ineligible this weekend. 
"The team's attitude and work et­hic have been e:~~:cellent this week," commented Smith. "These two games with Dearborn are very welcome as we try to get the bad taste (ofdefeat) out ofour mouths." 
"We're going to take it one day at a 
time with Heidi," says DiStanislao. 
"So far she's feeling pretty good, but 
she's still got a lot of time to make 
up." 
Sunday's game will be the first 
meeting ever between Notre Dame 
and Boston University. Coach 
Christine Basile's Terriers were 4-7 
before Wednesday's clash with New 
Hampshire. BU was 14-I4 overall 
last season. Top scorer for the Ter­
riers are Andrea Ashtuck ( 13.1 ppg., 
7.7 rpg.) and Renee Kurowski ( 12.0 ppg., 4.0 rpg.). 
"HU had a dry spell early in the season when the lost four straight games," noted DiStanislao. "But now they're starting to play good basket­balll and we expect a very tough game from them when they come into the ACC. Ashtuck is a very good player and she is only a freshman so she'll get better as the season goes along. 
"BU is also getting good play from Renee Kurowski at guard. This game is a good test for us since it will be our last non-conference gae of the season." 
IRISH ITEMS -Senior forward Trena Keys needs only 125 points to become Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer. . . Tip-off time for the DePaul game onjan. 26at the ACC has been changed from 2 p.m. to 4:15p.m. 
AMERICAN 
<J CANCER
~SOCIETY~
I 
• ACAP : 
e ADULT CHILDREN OF ALCOHOLIC PARENTS 
• :Mondays . ...... 5:30-6:30 pm •
•
• Counseling & Psychofogicol Services Center 
• 
: Room 316 •
•
• 
• Does someone significant to you have a drinking • • problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help. •
•
• Call 239-5085 
t SUPER 
~ 
tie 
\I'AL I 
~ Y~ 
t DRUGS 
iC iC
: WE NDW HAVE LICENSED ie NOTRE DAME iC CHAMPION SPDRTWEAR 
~ 
iC *shirts iC *Hats & Pennants 
t~ 


***************************************** 
~ 
* 
SUPER-VAL DRUGS :* 
Goodwill Plaza 933 N. Eddy St. South Bend, IN 
PHONE287-3663 ~ 
* 
[withaut: th• baakstar• ** pric:•s!] ~ 
* *sweats ** 
*shorts * 
*
*

•haw •tu•ntI.D. and r•c•iv• iC (fram w•ird Harald), an •xtra 20% * ~ DFF ALREADY DISCOUNTED GDDDS! ~ 
by scores of6-3 and 5-3 at Dearborn in November. So far this season, the lri5h have run up an impressive 

:**************************************** 
-----------------------~ 
~«:)cj[C3L~---------------------------------------IT-id_a_y_,J_an_u_ruy
__l_7_,_19_8_6_-_P_ag•e-I..I 

Bloom County 

ACROSS 1 Uncouth 4 Showed violent 
anger 9 Make-for 
(defend) 14 Gr. letter 15 Papal garb 16 Dynamo 17 "-the King's 
Men" 18 Dance 
spectators 20 Blanched 22 Lost 23 Vehemence 24 Of Franks 26 Rustle 28 Building 
timber 31 Evolutionary 
man 35 Airport agcy. 37 Calendar spans 39 Take -(be 
brave) 40 Wheel spindle 42 USMAgrad 44 Croat or Serb 45 Ovens 47 "-Brown" 49 Cobb or Majors 50 On cloud nine 52 Valentine and 
Black 54 Author Waugh 56 "The Good -" 58 Jal­61 Reckless 64 Less frequent 66 Conductor 
Allred 68 Tokyo once 70 Badger kin 71 Enchantress 72 Freudian word 73 Pioneers 74 Rounded out 75 Asian holiday 
DOWN 1 Use a combine 2 Gazetteer 3 Washington 
city 4 In noisy ways 5 Macaw 
M'r' NEW YE"ARS ~SCLLmoN: I WILL NOT Sic;!I> ANY Cit ('-1Y CLASses! r----..r 
~ 1986 Tnbune Media Services. Inc. 
,., Rights Reserved 

Yesterday's Solution 
6 Celebration 7 Additions 8 Stay 9 Latin I word 
10 Cattle 
caretakers 11 Suit to­12 Shore bird 13 Formerly once 19 Praise 21 Old high note 25 Sky: Fr. 27 Cotecry 29 Spad 30 Spartan, e.g. 32 Financial 

mecca 33 Dies­34 Flm 35 Sham 38 Leal junction 48 Longed 59 Recent 38 Koran chapter 51 Actor Bruce 60 Can. prov. 41 Reserved lor 53 NewDeal 62 To-do 
descendants letters 63 Plant 43 Sped 55 Malnebay 65 Sea lan 46 Musical 57 Kind ol hog 67 Vetch 
piece: abbr. 58 Gl absence 68 Rink stull 

Berke Breathed 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

--. 
Early business failures 
•12:00 
P.M. · Auditions for Shenanigans, men only, Room 219 O'Shaughnessy 

•I
:30 P.M.· Saint Mary's Basketball, SMC vs. St. Joseph, Angela Athletic Facility 

•2:00 
P.M. · Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Il­linois State, ACC 

•2:30 
P.M. -Men's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. UCLA, ACC Arena 

SUNDAY 

•I:OO 
· 4:00 P.M. -Opening Exhibition, Modern Drawings and Watercolors from the Permanent, O'Shaughnessy Galleries East, (until April 20) 

•2:00 
P.M.-Concert, Chester String Quartet, a concen in celebration of the fifth anniver­sary of the Snlte Museum, Annenberg Auditorium 

•2:00 
P.M. -Women's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Boston University, ACC Arena 

•6:30-8:00P.M.-Urban 
Plunge Orienta­tion Workshop, Memorial Ubrary Auditorium 

•7:00 
-9:00 P.M. -Junior Night at Macri's, Macri's Deli, Sponsored by Class of '87 

•7:00 
P.M.• Presentation-Reception, for juniors interested in summer internships with Proctor & Gamble, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•I
0:00 P.M. -12:00 A.M. -Junior Class Skadng, ACC, Sponsored by Class of '87 



Speaker-Discussion 
: 
I 
Where: Libra., Lounge When: Friday, Jan. 17 at 7:00pm Spealter: PegP. 
OPEN TO ALL 

For lafonaadoa Call: 239-7336
l................................ 
Campus 
FRIDAY 
•2:15-3:15P.M.-Civil 
Engineering Semi· nar, "Pollution Abatement Through Directed Process Modification," Dr. Virginia Cunnin­gham, Smith, Kline and French Laboratories, Philadelphia, Room 303 Cushing Hall 

•3:30 
P.M. · Aero/ Mechanical Engineer­ing Seminar, Dr. Saleem Shakir, Michigan State University, Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 

•4:30 
P.M. -Dept. of Chemistry GTE Emerging Scholar Lecture, "Metals in DNA: Molecular Left-handed Complements, Dr. Jac­queline K. Barton, Columbia University, Room 126 Nieuwland Science Hall 

•
7:00 P.M. -Saint Mary's Swim Meet, SMC vs. Valparaiso, Rockne Pool 

•7:00, 
9:00 & 11:00 P.M.-SAB FUm, "Risky Business," Engineering Auditorium, S1 

•7:30 
P.M. · Notre Dame Women's Basket­ball, NO vs. Detroit, ACC Arena 

•7:30 
P.M. -Ice Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Michigan-Dearborn, ACC Ice Arena 

•8:00 
P.M. -Dept. of Chemistry GTE Emerging Scholar Lecture, "Chiral Metal Complexes: Site Specific Reactions Along the DNA Strand," Dr. Jacqueline K. Barton, Room 126 Nieuwland Science Hall 


SATURDAY 
•12:00-2:30P.M.· Short Story and Poetry Readings, Sonia Gernes, Notre Dame, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by American As­sociation of University Women 
Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Oven Fried Chicken  Hot Italian BedSandwich  
Baked Cod with Herbs  Shrimp Jambalaya  
Veal Marango  Cheese & Mushroom Omelet  
Olympian Sandwich  Oven Broiler Fish  


startth• ••m••t•rfr••h with a FREE FACIAL! 
Relax in the comfort of your own residence and enjoy your free facial! Facial includes: a personalized sldn care program, makeup artistry color consultation by a professional beauty consultant 
CaD Julie at 234-7635 to schedule your fadaland Invite a &lend! 

Prlala........ ftoalb-tal 
-MPIOn...l--1,_..__IM"IOn­
lldlla*Cib.._...,..,._..,...br
_F_l...,_.._IJ'Oin 
Mdltehoolor ............_lnlawor 
11111 .._ .._ .._ .._
-·-iiOOMAup..IIOOMA. 
_.._.... 

-..-­
~~= U74 
-..a.~~.-... Ullrll··-· 
-· 

:-------------------------­

Friday, January 17, 1986-page 12

S~orts 
UCLA invades ACC tomorrow; Irish go for tenth win of the season 
against BYU. There was no ligament "Don't let their record fool you," SportsEdttor or cartilage damage, but he was on Phelps says. "UCLA has an excellent crutches earlier this week. team and is due to explode. I'm sure 
After four straight games on the "We're hopeful that he'll be they would love to come in here and road, the Notre Dame basketball ready," says Phelps. "It's a day-to-day beat us after we beat them out there team returns to the ACC tomorrow thing; we'll just have to wait and last year. 
for a battle with traditional rival see." "They don't have the size or the UCLA (2:30 p.m., NBC-TV). The UCLA, at 7-4 heading into a game bulk that some UCLA teams in the 13th-ranked Irish will be trying to last night with Arizona State, is a past have had, but they have as much make it two straight over the Bruins. young team. The Bruins start three quickness overall. They're still Notre Dame beat UCLA 53-52 last juniors, a sophomore and a fresh­looking for their own identity." season in Pauley Pavilion to end a man. Junior forward Reggie Miller seven-game Bruin winning streak 
ByJEFF BLUMB 

heads the cast of characters for against the Irish. Following that vic­
UCLA. Miller, who is still trying to --tory, the Irish arrived home at 3 a.m. 
shake the label of being Cheryl Mil­
Sports Fantasy 
to find approximately 1,000 stu­
ler's brother, is an excellent outside dents waiting to greet them, and a 
shooter and the Bruins' leading
NBC Sports will be at the ACC
40-minute impromptu celebration 
scorer with a 24.5 point average.
tomorrow to do more than just
was held in the sub-zero tem­
televise the Irish-Bruin battle. In 
"Miller has got the long range,"
peratures ofFebruary. 

addition, the network plans to 
says Phelps. "He throws them up
That victory party, more than 
tape an NBC Sports Fantasy 
from 25 feet and they go in. You've 
anything else, is probably the best 
during halftime of the game. 

got to keep a hand in his face
way to sum up the meaning of this 
The fantasy of Steve Brelsford, 
anywhere he goes and even that isn't
game to Notre Dame. 

33, of Fort Wayne, Ind., will be 
always enough."
"UCLA has always been tbe game 
fulfilled. The dream of Brelsford,
for us," says Irish coach Digger 
Miller was cold in last year's game 
who is an Indiana University bas­
Phelps. "We treat this game as an ex­
1bc ObKrver/Pcte Lachn

between the two teams, hitting only 
ketball fan, is to be at the free 
tra special one because of what 
4-of-11 shots from the field.
throw line to shoot a pair of foul 
Irish forward Ken Barlow is shown above in earlier action

UCLA has meant in college basket­
shots for the Hoosiers with the 
Starting at forward with Miller is 
against Loyola. Barlow injured bi.~ knee in tbe Brigham Young

ball. When I started here, we 
6-8 sophomore Craig Jackson, and 6­
score tied and no time remaining 
game earlier this week and is questionable for tomotTow's game

measured our progress against the 
10 junior Jack Haley goes at center.
on the clock. 
against UCLA.. jeffBlumbpreviews the game at left.

kind of things UCLA was ac­
Freshman Kelvin Butler also sees a
The catch is that Brelsford,
complishing. And the fact we were 
lot of playing time up front, averag­
wearing an Indiana basketball
able to beat them a few times helped 
ing 6.3 points per game to rank as
shirt, will be shooting the free 
put us on the map, too." 

the Bruins' fifth-leading scorer. 
throws with the Notre Dame stu­
SMC basketball team beats

The status of Irish captain Ken 
Guard is handled by juniors Mon-
dent body in the background.

Barlow for tomorrow's game still 
NBC will air the taped fantasy
remained uncertain as of yesterday. 
see IRISH, page 8
on Sportsworld on March 2. 
Tri-State handily, 87-75

Barlow "wracked up" his knee 
Squad loses four over break By LINDA BAILY led by freshman .Jennifer Harte. who Sports Writer had a total of I I rebounds and was also strong offensively. Teammate, Last night the Saint Mary's basket· Beth Kreher had a game-high total of 
ball team fell to Tri-State University, 21 points for the Belles. Tri-State By DENNIS CORRIGAN roadtrip during break that saw them challenge people if we want to get 87-75, at Angela Athletic Facility. Be­was led by Shari Krueger, who Sports Writer outscored by a 44-16 margin. Ob­things turned around." cause Tri-State was an unorganized scored a total of 29 points. 
viously, Head Coach Lefty Smith was Before the layoff for finals, the team for several years, the Belles did Belles' sophomore standout 
The Notre Dame hockey team will somewhat less than pleased with his Irish had jl,Jst compiled a 5-2-1 not know what to expect from the Tammye Radke was 3-for-4 from the try to regain momentum and gain a squad's less-than-stellar defensive record in their last eight games and Angola, Ind. team. line, where she is currently shooting little revenge when the Irish host performance. were playing their best hockey of "We shot well and executed our 92 percent. She also led the team the Wolves of Michigan-Dearborn the season. Now they find them­offense but we were lacking with nine assists. for two games tonight and tomor­"We played very poorly selves with a 7-12-1 slate and some defense," said Coach Marvin Wood. The Belles are looking forward to row night. Face-off time both nights defensively throughout the entire unanswered questions. Four minutes into the game Tri­their game against Saint Joseph's is 7:30, and, as always, admission is trip," said Smith. "We are going to "Before the layoff I felt good," State held a slim 13-1 0 advantage. College this Saturday in Angela, free to students with ID cards. have to concentrate on doing a bet­Smith said." We played really good The Belles remained close, trailing where they will try to improve their 
The Irish will be looking to ter job defensively ifwe want to win 41-36 at the half. 4-4 record. The game is slated for 
Hockey team faces Wolves tonight 
see HOCKEY, page 10
recuperate from a disatrous 0-4 some games. We are going to have to In th~ second half, the Belles were 1:30 p.m. 
Bruin-Irish game fails to glimmer as in the past 
Notre Dame and UCLA. 
One interesting sideline to all this involves Irish sop­It is one of the most special rivalries in college basket­homore fullback Frank Starns. Starns' brother Steve is a ball. Jeff reserve quarterback at Akron. And, if that isn't enough But while tomorrow's game with the Bruins will hold irony, only two days prior to Faust's hiring, Irish coach Lou significance, it hardly glimmers in the light ofNotre Dame­Holtz hired away Akron's outstanding defensive coor­
Blumb 
UCLA games ofyears gone by. dinator, Terry Forbes. 
UCLA basketball is in the same troubled state as Irish Sports Editor Many Notre Dame students, no doubt, are happy with a football fortunes. Both have a long-standing tradition that Faust for Forbes trade. has been somewhat soiled by a recent lack ofsuccess. 
Today only a cheap imitation of former UCLA coach No, this is just not the same UCLA that today's college 
• 

John Wooden remains in present coach Walt Hazzard, a basketball fans knew when they were growing up. player for Wooden in the early 1960s. Though teaching the 
While still on the subject ofGerry Faust, wasn't it nice to "Wooden system," Hazzard is not nearly as reserved as • see a dear old friend of his, Miami head coach Jimmy Wooden in game situations. 
Johnson, so humbled in the Sugar Bowl. Unlike bts famous former coach, wbo batted officials Here's one from the "Believe it or not" file. Upon his tbrougb clenched U!etbfrom bebtnd a rolled-up program hiring as head football coach at the University of Akron, One thing that sticks in my mind from Notre Dame's while remaining seated, Hazzard struts tbe sideline like former Irish coach Gerry Faust said that it was his decision 58-7 loss to the Hurricanes in Faust's last game is how some kind ofsoul-turkey and pays little attention to tbe to sever the relationship with Notre Dame and that the Johnson strutted into the post-game press conference and restraining lines. Iftbts were football, tbe Bruins would University would have let him continue for at least one pronounced his team No. 1. "Fellas, you've just seen the geta lot oftoo-many-men-on-tbe-field penalties. more season. best team in the country," was how he phrased it, haughti­-columnist Art Chansky "Notre Dame never would have fired me. I resigned be­ness in his words. '~ ' f 
Dec. 30, 1985, issue of Basketball Times. cause I felt I needed a fresh start and Notre Dame needed a Wrong. UCLA fans entered this season with high expectations fresh start," Faust told Milan Zhan of the Akron Beacon After unnecessarily running up the score against the 
after the Bruins won the National Invitation Tournament Journal. Irish and being so self-righteous, Johnson and his hood­
I 
I 
last March. The Bruins stood at a respectable 7-4 prior to Faust's hiring by Akron sparked a great amount of con­lums read their press clippings a few too many times, for­
r 
I 
last night's game with Arizona State, but have suffered two troversy in that area, mainly because Akron already had a getting they still had a game left with Tennessee onJan. 1. If major setbacks already this season. football coach-Jim Dennison, who went 8-3 last season you didn't see it, the Volunteers reminded them ofthat fact Upon losing to North Carolina, 107-70, in the season and generally was thought of as successfpl. M;my claimed with a 35-7 whipping. 
t 
opener, the worst defeat in UCLA history, Hazzard was ar­the hiring of Faust was a good way to bring national atten­Oh, and by the way, no one around here is forgetting rogant and angry, according to Chansky. He refused to tion to the school as it prepares to jump to the Division I Feb. 22, the day when the Notre Dame basketball team answer some questions and, get this, said he was mad level in 1987. heads to Florida for a game with their counterpart from enough to go out and get into a fight. Publicity and national attention aside, though, the time Miami. The Hurricanes are playing basketball for the first One would have to wonder what Hazzard was like after still will come when Faust has to get on the field and coach, time since the 1970-71 season and don't figure to be espe­
UCLA's 90-65 loss to Pac 10 foe Washington, its worst and don't think there won't be more than a few interested cially strong. league defeat in 48 years. eyes watching to see the outcome. February 22 cannot come soon enough.
~ 




