'Apartheid Crisis' -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 60 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1986 
Peres says he'll disclose Israel's role in arms deals 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM-Foreign Min­ister Shimon Peres tried Mon­day to defuse pressure on the Israeli government to disclose its role in shipping U.S. arms to Iran, promising to report to a watchdog subcommittee in Parliament. 
He flatly refused, however, to give information about any Iranian arms deal when he ap­peared before the Foreign Af­fairs and Security Committee, an unwieldy, 26-member body where deliberations are rarely kept secret. 
He promised instead to brief the six-member Subcommittee on Armed Services. 
The development came amid concern that an angry U.S. Congress could make Israel a scapegoat for the U.S. Admin­istration's sales. 
The political uproar in the United States over the arms shipments has just begun to spread to Israel, where many Israelis accept that arms deals are not a subject for public debate. The full 120-member Knesset, or parliament, sched­uled a debate for Tuesday on the issue. 
"There has never arisen a more bitter enemy of the Jewish people and, in my opinion, of human civilization, than the Khomeini regime," said Abba Eban, a former foreign minister who presides over the Knesset committee. 
He referred to Ayatollah Khomeini, Iran's revolutionary patriarch. 
President Reagan has said he authorized a third country, reportedly Israel, to ship arms to Iran to try to form links with Iranian moderates. 
The Jerusalem Post quoted unidentified Israeli defense of-
see ISRAEL, page 4 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Bank's divestment 
marks biggest yet by foreign business 

Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South 
Africa -Barclays Bank of Brit­
ain, citing financial and politi­
cal pressure, said Monday it 
sold its last shares in its South 
Mrican affiliate for about $230 
million. It was the biggest di­
vestment yet by a foreign com­
pany. 
A consortium of South 
Mrican companies signed the 
deal last week to buy Barclays' 
shares in Barclays National 
Bank of South Africa, the 
country's largest commercial 
bank. 
"The Barclays PLC sale of shares must have an impact on the South Mrican economy. It is certainly not a perilous mat­ter, but it is cause for serious concern in terms of psycholog­ical impact," Basil Hersov, chairman of Barelays Nation­al, told a news conference. 
The London-based Barclays Bank PLC once owned 100 per­cent of the local affiliate but since 1973 had reduced its share to 40.4 percent. Its final pullout is the first by a major British company but follows withdrawal by numerous American companies, most recently General Motors, Kodak and IBM. 
The value of the divestment and number of employees in­volved -26,000 -made it the largest so far. However, offi­cials of the local affiliate said the existing staff and opera­tions will be maintained. 
South Mrican bankers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they feared Barclays' withdrawal would encourage pullouts by other British companies. Britain is the largest foreign investor in South Africa, with $8.5 billion, compared to about $1.3 billion in American investments. 
"Barclays are longstandin~ 
Band will take no further action on Guards until Guard members decide on an appeal 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST Senior Staff Reporter 
Band officials said Monday they won't take further action on last week's dismissal of the Irish Guard until Guard mem­bers officially appeal the deci­sion. 
"It is the responsibility of any dismissed band member to initiate the appeals process," said Jim Lecinski, band vice­president. "That's just stan­dard band policy." 
Lecinski said none of the Irish Guard members has ap­proached the band officers to request an appeal. 
"So it's a dead issue as far as we're concerned," added Band President Tom McCabe. 
Irish Guard Captain John Kennedy said the group "is anxious to get things re­solved," b1,1t that Guard members will wait until after Thanksgiving to make any of­ficial decisions. 
Kennedy said he expects several members to appeal the dismissal decision. 
Junior Guard member Paul Reuvers would not say whether or not he and other non­graduating members would re­quest an investigation. 
"We're still figuring things out right now," he said. 
Senior Guard member Pat Kruczek said, however, that he will not appeal the decision. 
"For me as a senior, there's nothing to be gained by going through the appeals process," Kruczek said. 
"If we were going to a bowl game or something, that might be a different case, but basi­cally this year's duties are finished already," he added. 
The Irish Guard was dis­missed last Monday "because of severe misconduct and total disregard of band policy as regards alcohol consumption in uniform at the Penn State-ND game," according to an an­nouncement posted on the band bulletin board last Monday. 

The dismissal concerns this year's Irish Guard only, not the Irish Guard as an institution, according to James Phillips, acting band director. 
Phillips said the Irish Guard will continue as a Notre Dame tradition in future years. However, he added that the Guard's role in relation to the 
see GUARD, page 3 
friends of South Africa," said local managing director Chris Ball. "They're not doing this to punish South Africa. They're doing it because they're under political pressure which is con­verting into financial pres­sure." 
In London, Barclays spokes­man Geoffrey Kelly said the sale was made chiefly because of the affiliate's poor economic performance and unfavorable prospects for the South African economy. 
But he told The Associated Press, "I think certainly poli­tical factors come into it. 
"The lack of progress toward ending apartheid has itself had impact on the South African economy," he said. "It is also true that the threat to our busi­ness in the U.K. and the U.S. is one of the factors, but not the prime factor." 
In Britain, anti-apartheid groups have protested outside Barclays' branches to push for divestment. 
"Neither South Mrica's bal­ance of payments nor its foreign exchange reserves will be affected by the transac­tion," said Gerhard de Kock, governor of South Africa's Reserve Bank. He said the sale "is not expected to exert any adverse effect nationally or in­ternationally on the South Mrican banking system." 
However, Hersov said, "Clearly, what we have here is a major disinvestment and ... disinvestment does not progress change." 
· The buyers are led by Anglo American Corp., the country's largest mining company, and two of its affiliates, De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. and Southern Life Assurance Co. 
Barclays gave the sale price as 527 million rand, or $234 mil­lion at Monday's exchange 
rate. 

Happy Thanksgiving 

This is the last issue of The Observer before the Thanks­giving Break. The staff of The Observer wish you a Happy Thanksgiving and a safe holiday. The Observer will resume publication on the day following the vaca­tion, Tuesday, Dec. 1. 

r 
The Observer Tuesday, November 25, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 

"The Transcendental Ego in Philosophy and Literature: Kant and Emerson" will be the topic of a lecture by Pro­fessor Gudrun Grabber of the University of Innsbruck, Austria, tonight at 8 in the Memorial Library Lounge. The lecture is sponsored by the Program of Liberal Studies. 
-The Observer 

Concert band auditions will be held Monday through Wednesday next week. Interested students should sign up in the band office in Washington Hall. For more informa­tion, call 239-7136. -The Observer 
"Continuity" and "student representation" on the Judi­cial Review Board were urged by Maria Cintron, student judicial coordinator at Monday night's Student Senate meeting. Cintron suggested that the Senate "look into the issue" but a quorum was not present. The University of Wisconsin "invasion" of Notre Dame also was discussed. 

Of Interest 
A phone fraud caper at the University of Florida has been taken off the hook. Police are taking testimony in a case involving 222 UF students and more than $90,000 worth of long-distance calls. They're looking for the stu­dent who, using a home computer, discovered the school's long-distance service account number and gave it out to students. -The Observer 
The soda machine "kidnapped" at California State University-Sacramento was recovered without harm. Bored dorm residents stole the building's Coke machine and hid it in a bedroom. Campus police quickly rescued the distraught machine. -The Observer 
Jeanne Heller, student body president, and Betsy Burke, vice president for academic affairs and college relations, met with Sr. Bernice Hollenhorst, director of Cushwa­Leighton Library, concerning a change in Sunday library hours, announced Heller at Monday night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. The problem is that they don't want to staff the library on Sunday because it's the one day they have off, according to Heller. "I'm so frustrated with this. The students have shown the need and desire. The school's committed to academics yet it is not fulfilling the needs of the students," said Heller. Stu­dent government plans to start a petition the Tuesday after break. 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until I p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide 
events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 

You may be in the clouds as break ar­rives but so will your plane. It will be 
cloudy with a 30 percent chance of rain in the afternoon or evening. High in the lower and middle 40s. An 80 percent chance of rain at night. Low in the lower 40s. It will be sloshing over the river and through the woods with rain likely Wednesday, high• in the middle and upper 40s. Cloudy 


Thanksgiving Day. Low in the middle 30s. High in the middle 40s. -The Observer 
=­


-=Ihe -Observer-
Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Viewpoint Copy Editor Gertie Wimmer Design Assistants . ...... Mike Mojica Viewooint Layout . ..... Heidi Traxl~r 
...................... BobWhite Accent Copy Editor . .. Gertie Wimmer Layout Staff . ......... Lisa Tugman Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels Typesellers . ............. Pat Clark Typist ................ Colleen Foy ..................... Smed Laboe ND Day Editor ...... Alison Pivonka News Editor ......... Mary Heilman SMC Day Editor . . Theresa Harrington Copy Editor . .......... Karen Webb AdDesign . ......... Sharon Emmite Sports Copy Editor . ..... Terry Lynch Photographer . .......... Fred Dobie 
Tbe ObRrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The ObRrver is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


All-nighters during exams are often necessary evils 
Last night I pulled an all-nighter. 
An all-nighter is something you have to pull. You don't have it, make it or do it. It's a last­minute attempt to raise your dismal grades from the morass of scholarly ruin, the finest piece of art in an academic renaissance. 
Anyway, this study-oriented Hail Mary-play I was calling was in one of my most difficult classes. One of those courses with a name like "Literary and Economic Relations Between Europe and America and their Theological Reverberations in 20th Century and Victorian Social Contexts." 
I was gearing myself up for next day's mid­term while at dinner in the South Dining Hall. I decided not to eat too much, for fear I may be forced to consume an entire semester's worth of notes later in the evening. 
I began the all-nighter by locking myself in my room, with class notes, books, caffeine pills and other paraphenalia to help me on my late­night mission. I decided that by reading every other word of the massive tomes that lay before me, I could retain more than enough of the material I needed. 
By 1 a.m. advanced fatigue had set in. I had discovered that by taking three-minute naps, I could awaken fully refreshed for more power studying. I took twelve of these every hour, leaving 24 quality minutes with which to devour material. 
During one dream I envisioned the men on the Apollo space program drinking Tang and getting whole meals by swallowing little cap­sules. At the end of this dream, I became in­ternationally famous for creating pills that, when swallowed, would fully educate the user on a given subject. Academia was dead, Uni­versities became obsolete, the all-nighter a thing of the past. 
buzzzzzZZZZZZZZZZZZ! ! ! It was 3:58. The last time I set my alarm was at 3: 57. I leapt from my desk into an immense pile of papers, pens and photocopies and began swimming around in concentrated panic. The deadline was approaching. 
The next volume I dove into had a number of pages equal to infinity minus one. The late hour made th e w ord s int his b oo k loo kli ke this. I took a swig of Jolt, which for a minute made everthingruntogethersoitookinasmuch­materialasicould. 
After using clothespins to attach my eyelids to my forehead, I began to get into industrial strength cramming. My rule on reading every other word became lightened to every other 

Tripp Baltz 
News Editor 

sentence, then every other page, then whole books were blown off. 
I began banging these books against my head in the hopes that the material within would somehow enter my study-weary skull. After knocking myself into oblivion, I collapsed onto a stack of notes on my desk. Minutes later my retinae were seared by the violent rising of the sun, as red as the veins bulging out of my eyes. 
Scurrying like a South Quad squirrel before winter, I gathered up my notes and looked for two number two pencils hidden somewhere un­der stacks of trash, half-empty cola cans and discarded no-doz pill containers. 
After sucking down one more mug of cold coffee, I sped off for O'Shaugnessy, ready to regurgitate all the material I had breathed in during my all-nighter. 
When I finally reached the lecture hall, a lonely notice greeted me on the door: 
N 0 TIC E: 

The ENGL 499 FAn Mid-term examination 
has been postponed until Friday. 
Have a nice day. 

SOPHOMORES~ 
WHY WAIT UNTIL SENIOR YEAR TO CONDUCT YOUR JOB INTERVIEWS? UPON ACCEPTANCE INTO THE NROTC PROGRAM YOU WILL HAVE A 
POSITION OF GREAT CHALLENGE, RESPONSIBILITY, ADVENTURE AWAITING YOU AS A NAVAL AVIATOR, SUBMARINER, OR SURFACE WARFARE OFFICER. 
~ ~ ~ 
~:~~~? 

NAVYOmCERS GET RESPONSIBIUTY FAST. 
A TWO-YEAR SCHOLARSHIP ($16,000), OR $2,000 EXPENSE MONEY MAY BE EARNED BY APPLYING FOR NROTC DURING YOUR SOPHOMORE YEAR! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL LT. WACHTL AT 239-7274. 
The Observer Tuesday, November 25, 1986-page 3 

The line starts here 
Students line up to buy tickets for the Berlin tickets went on sale Monday night. The concert 
concert on the first floor of La Fortune where is schelduled to be held Dec. 4 at Stepan Center. 


Tips for safe driving over break released by Notre Dame Security 
Spt>cial to The Observer being involved in a traffic ac­plans. 
cident increase greatly,'' he *Don't drink and drive. Drink­
Assistant Director of Secur­said. ing and driving is one of the ity Phil Johnson has released Johnson submitted the follow­leading causes of death among tips for safe driving over the ing traffic safety suggestions to young adults. Thanksgiving break. The Observer: 
Johnson said the leading *Wear seatbelts at all times. *Prepare for bad weather by causes of accidents during Doing so reduces the chance of taking warm clothes and a Thanksgiving break are speed­serious injury by 70 percent. sleeping bag with you in the ing and drunk driving. "With car. Make sure your car is mec­increased traffic, holiday *Plan to drive the speed limit hanically ready for winter. drinking, and the possibility of or only as fast as conditions will Keep informed about changing bad weather causing poor road permit. Allow time for bad road weather conditions as you conditions, your chances of conditions when making travel travel. 

Corby Tavern owners will ask for an appeal 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
CTI, Inc., owners of Corby Tavern, has given notice to the Indiana Alcoholic Beverage Commission that it would ask for an administrative appeal, according to Joseph Quill, representing attorney for CTI, Inc. 
"The appeal will be heard either by the full Commission or a hearing designated by the Commission," said Quill. 
"If they rule in favor of CTI, Inc., they would implement their ruling by issuing the license to CTI," he said. 
CTI was denied renewal of the tavern's license at the St. Joseph County Alcoholic Bever­age Board's Nov. 13 meeting. 
Quill said the Commission has to decide whether the St. 
Joseph County ABC acted "ar­bitrarily, capriciously or il­legally." 
The ABB refused to grant CTI the renewal because of problems Corby's encountered while it was open. 
Such problems, as cited by law-enforcement officers and neighborhood residents at the meeting, included underage drinking and general deface­ment of the surrounding area. 
CTI needed the license renewal in order to sell Corby's assets to the prospective buyers of the tavern, Thomas and Robert Przybylinski. 
Had CTI received the renewal of the license, the ABB would have decided whether the license should be trans­ferred from CTI to Theta En­terprises, owned by the Przybylinski brothers. 

Guard 
continuedfrom page 1 
band as a whole will be reassessed at a meeting of band officers and directors next semester. 
Should Guard members decide to appeal the decision, they will have to follow a stan­dard procedure outlined in the band manual, Lecinski said. 
The suspended band member makes his appeal known to band officers, who review the case and make a recommenda­tion toward the directors' final decision, Lecinski said. 
The official dismissal an­nouncement came from the of­fice of Phillips and assistant directors Father George Wiskirchen and Nicholas Mor­rison. 
Phillips reasserted the posi­tion held by Lecinski and McCabe. 
"We don't expect to do anyth­ing on this issue until next se­mester. Nothing new has oc­curred, and there's nothing to update," Phillips said. 


m~anksgiuing at Nntrt iamt 
University Food Services will serve a 
Thanksgiving Feast from 1:30-4:00pm at the South Dining Hall 
This meal is covered by the board plan, so your meal card will be valid. Casual meal tickets will be sold for off-campus students or guests. 

Faculty, staffand families are most welcome! 
reservations are optional-dial 6147 

a punch reception a large screen TV to enjoy will precede the meal at 1 :00 Thanksgiving Day activities 
The Observer 


The Observer /Fred Dobie
Bicycle not really built for two 
Molly Steber (left) and Maggie Williams (right) good sport about the fact that she's doing all double up for a turn on their bike, Spike, during the work as she peddles her friend across a crisp fall afternoon. Maggie seems to be a campus. 



Official challenges Reagan claims 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A top­ranking State Department offi­cial on Monday bluntly chal­lenged President Reagan's assurances that there's been no recent evidence of Iranian in­volvement in terrorism, while Reagan defended anew his decision to approve arms ship­ments to Tehran. 
"I don't like to have to differ with my president, but I believe there is some evidence of Iranian involvement with ter­rorists," Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said during an extraordinary ap­pearance before the House Foreign Affairs Committee. 

Israel 

~ continuedfrom page 1 
I 
ficials as expressing concern that Congress could act against Israel for its role. 
"We can expect to see almost 
r all bilateral military negotia­
r tions grind to a standstill for a while and a hostile climate de­veloping toward Israel in Congress," one unidentified source was quoted as saying. Congressional wrath could disrupt such projects as financ­ing and building the Lavi jet 
Anti·Violence Activist 
Center for Teaching Non-Violence & NCTV fuff·lime slafl. Lodging & S400/mo. Research on aggression, publishing & lobbying againsl violence Ill TV, film, war toys, sports, erotica, etc. Non-violent films. Next to U Illinois. Sludenlloans deferable. 217·384·1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820 

Mon.frl 7-8 

'3.2~ Saturday 6-9:30 Sunday9-5 


ALL TOO CAN EAn Slrlohl Dinner 
,....Style T-..n-s. 
100Center01d Brewery Building Mishawaka 
Reservations 
255-1526
'-·'lhur.l-9 
...........10 
Whitehead testified as Reagan said, "I didn't make any mistakes" and declared that "I'm not firing anybody." The president then sat down with members of his Cabinet and top advisers to weigh new moves, amid a crescendo of calls by members of Congress for a White House shakeup. 
In statements that left some House committee members stunned, Whitehead, the No. 2 State Department official un­der Secretary of State George Shultz, also suggested poin­tedly that Congress rein in the National Security Council, and said publicly that his depart­ment was disenchanted with the unit. 

In his nationally broadcast speech Nov. 13, Reagan defended his policy of selling arms to Iran, saying that "since U.S. government con­tacts began with Iran, there's been no evidence of Iranian government complicity in acts of terrorism against the United States." 
Whitehead contradicted that Monday. 
Responding to the commit­tee's questions, he said: "there continues to be terrorist acts in Iran of the type that we find to be reprehensible." 
Whitehead did not immedi­ately elaborate. 
THENOTREDAMECLUBOF 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
presents 

Notre Dame in Anaheim 
Friday, November 28 
Notre Dame Pep Rally 7:30pm Anaheim Marriot. Cost: $4 adults, $2 with student ID 
Saturday, November 29 
Pre-game Rally 
Post-game Party 
10:30 am Pre-game party at the 
California Air and Space Museum (next to Stadium) 
12:30pm Kickoff 
Aftergame Post-game party at the California Air and Space Museum (next to stadium) 
A/so, there will be a post-game celebration at the Anaheim Marriot. 

Tuesday, November 25, 1986 -page 4 


Liechtenstein princess speaks at Saint Mary's 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Liechtenstein's Princess Nora visited Saint Mary's Col­lege yesterday, meeting with students and faculty in Reidinger House. 
The Princess said she came to the College to learn about roles of women in the Church and how women, most particu­larly young women, are in­volved in the evangelization process. 
"It would be interesting to work here. I'm here to look at different ways you live and how to relate faith to others," she said. 
The Princess is on a fact­finding tour of the United States to gather information about evangelization at there­quest of members of the hierarchy of Europe. 
She works with several mem­bers of the European Church hierarchy who are looking into the re-evangelization of the world. 
She commented on the differ­ent views of women in Europe and the United States. "The wo­men's liberation movement has caught up a lot in Europe. It (the movement) is not as ag­gressive as in parts of the States." 
One of her main goals for this visit is to "look at what a wo­man can do in the Church in a positive way." 
Liechtenstein is a very small country with a population of 21,000. It occupies 62 square miles of central Europe be­tween Austria and Switzerland. 
"The country is very small. The business is not like mem­bers of the royal family in En­gland where it keeps six to eight people fully occupied," she said. 
"I've never liked to sit back and not do anything," she said. Liechtenstein provides devel­opment aid to third world countries. One of the princess' projects is adult education in Costa Rica. 
"My last name is Liech­tenstein, and the royal family does live in a castle. I mainly work in Belgium, and I travel a lot," she said. 
The Princess has been in the States for three weeks and will leave the country Dec. 6. 

we'· . -. ErasDIUS Books
~(\· 'tl ITDJ7 
~:~~\obj-~~ r Tu~~~!~~=e-6 
• • 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 232·8444 UIHd a -•o1 prblt boob.._.... -w.-.n:lled 
The Observer News Department 
The Observer news department is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
• DayChief 
A personal statement and resume is due by 5 
p.m. Tuesday. Questions should be referred to Lynne Strand at 239-7471 or 283-3861. 

Grace Hall "24 Hour Run" 
would like to thank our sponsors: 
Ernst & Whinney 
Varsity Shop Colonial Pancake House Jamison Inn (now open) 
City Awning of South Bend Coral Nissan 
Over $400 was raised for the Northeast Neighborhood 
fighter; permission to sell to Honduras Kfir jets which con­tain U.S.-built components, and granting Israel the status of NATO countries in bidding for defense contracts, the Post quoted the officials as saying. 
Morris Draper, U.S. Consul in Jerusalem, sounded surprised, however, when asked if the controversy had af­fected U.S.-Israeli relations. 
The relationship "is very good. I don't expect it to be damaged," Draper said in remarks broadcast on Israel army radio. 

A government official said in an interview that Peres told Eban's committee "it is not Is­
rael's policy to  sell  arms  to  
Iran."  
Peres  was  prime  minister  

when the arms reportedly were delivered as early as last year. 






"ieVVE~O_i_n_t~--~~~~~Tuesd~ay,N~ovem~ber2~5,19B~6-pa~ge5 
The Church's tradition includes many women 
In the sitting room of a small Fran­ciscan convent beside a Puerto Rican parish in North Philadelphia stands a poignant sculpture of the Holy Family. Carved from a single piece of wood, three figures softly emerge from what was once a monolithic stump. St. Joseph, in the background, gently bends over to embrace the Blessed Mother and the child that she cradles beneath her breast. 
Lisa Everett 
guest column 


mystery in a recent address: 
"The Church is not apparatus, it is 
not simply an institution, nor is it only 
one of the many sociological entities. 
It is a person. It is a woman. It is mot­
her. It is living. The Marian under­
standing of the Church is the most 
decisive antithesis to a merely organi­
zational and bureaucratic concept of 
the Church. The Church: we cannot 
make it, we have to be it. And only to 
the degree that faith, beyond our doing, 
forges our being, are we the Church, 
the Church is in us. Only in being 
Marian do we become the Church. Even 
at its beginning the Church was not 
made, it was generated. It was 
generated when the fiat arose in Mary's 
soul. This is the Council's most 
profound wish: that the Church arise 
in our souls. Mary shows us the way." 
The Church, the mystical body of 
Christ, was generated in Mary's soul 
by the power of the Holy Spirit, just as 
Jesus' human body was generated in 
her womb. Mary's consent, by which, 
as St. Augustine reflected, she con­
ceived Christ in her heart before she 
conceived him in her womb, is the heart 
of the mystery and the mission of the 
Church. 
By the power of the Holy Spirit, the ministerial priesthood protects and sus­tains this mystery of Mary's consent, making it possible that the Church arise also in our souls. By teaching authorita­tively, the bishops, in union with the Holy Father, protect the mystery from all that might tarnish its purity and threaten its integrity. By administering the sacraments, especially the Euc­harist, the priest sustains the mystery so that by the grace which the Holy Spirit pours forth Christ might also be conceived in our hearts. 
Perhaps from this perspective we can begin to glimpse the reason for the Church's teaching that only men may be ordained to the ministerial pries­thood. It is much more profound a rea­son than is generally assumed, because the Church is much more profound a reality than is commonly believed. There is no doubt that men and women share the same personal dignity and the same supernatural destiny. But nor is the family of God a monolithic stump; it, tob, has been carved from a single piece of wood such that mascu­line and feminine figures softly emerge. And if men have been entrusted with the task of protecting and sustaining the mystery of mother and child, how much more are women responsible for nurturing that mystery in which, in the wisdom and love of God; they more intimately participate. No one shared more intimately in the mission of Christ than his mother, Mary. This is the great mystery of which the Church is a sacrament -the Church of which Mary is mother and model. 
Lisa Everett is a 1985 graduate ofNotre Dame. 

, ~ 
.,
,
,
, 
., ~ 
1 

P.O. Box Q 
many, such as in Africa, it would seem that opponents of communism would want a better example of a non­communist, capitalist nation than the 1 one provided by the racially segregated 1 
1
South Africa. 
Thomas F. Curran ,1 Graduate Student 
1 
Diversity does not just 1 exist in shopping malls 1 
Dear Editor: 
This is in response to Jim Riley's In­side column of Nov. 20 where he sug­gests that Domers can find the diver­
l
sity they lack at shopping malls. 
First of all, Mr.Riley, I don't think you realize how condescending you sound. We at Notre Dame are no better 
i
than anyone else simply because we're not going to be manual laborers and l, simply because we don't have long hair 
1 
and dress in leather. We're here be­1
,
cause of an accident of birth. We're 
1
lucky. We've had something called op­
1
portunity. Otherwise, I used to bring a 
1
bag lunch to work. And I know girls who are pregnant and guys who have drug problems -people I went to school ~ with. These same people can be as surprisingly philosophical and as trivial as you and I. 
Yes, Notre Dame is sheltered. But you betray how sheltered your life has been by suggesting we can find diver­sity in shopping malls. Most suburban shopping malls I've been in (including the ones in South Bend) are used by suburbanites -covering a slightly wider spectrum of society than Notre Dame perhaps, but still sterile. If you want true diversity, visit a street market in a big city. Visit downtown New York. 
Donald Seymour Morrissey Hall 


Campus quote 

"Oh Heavenly Father, we do pray, that you would bless this Thanksgiving Day. We have a lot to be thankful for, but just being our God, who could be thankful for anything more?" 
Bill Krill LaFortune custodian 



Protesting war memorial does not promote peace 
r­r r 
r­"OK,WHO ELSE I~ ~INI!;HE.D WIT\4 HIS C~RISTMAS S~PPING? '' 
r 
r 
r 

r Revising parietals fails 
r 
~ 

r to address the problem 
There is much prattle these days over the hallowed notions of parietals. A cer­tain august body of students, always active in the noble pursuit of right rea­son which they may yet accede, wish to place certain limits on restricted hours and to distinguish between en­gaging in sex and violating parietals. Now, as much as I esteem the noble work our senators have pursued and believe in the efficacy of their pronouncements, I can only applaud them. Yet, in my own humble way, I think them quite mistaken in this en­deavor. 
Michael Ialacci 

the troubador 
r 
r 
Rather than attempt to limit the
r sacrosanct hours for parietals, they 
~ should expand them. Parietals is an ex­
r cellent thing from midnight to eleven, 
r but it would be much more effective 24 hours a day. Indeed one can as easily
~ 
f 
copulate in the hot zephyrs of the after­noon as in the evening. Yet the ~ liberality of our administration has been too lenient on our account. Others who claim parietals are a matter of con­venience may feel more relaxed when r traversing the halls stark naked. 
r 
Heaven forbid any of us should be seen 
r 
in a bathrobe by the opposite sex. We
r 
r certainly need protection from such 
r embarrassing circumstances. 
r Certainly, some bleeding-heart liberal may object to the severity of such a policy, insisting it would stifle an already unhealthy social situation. 
r Yet better to shoot a wounded horse, I say, than let it agonize. If one no longer expects a social life, indeed if the pos­sibility of social intercourse is precluded, disappointment is impossible. Grumbling most evidently would cease and our students would lose the distractions from their studies from which they themselves could not refrain. · On this first point, I will stand cor­rected, for I am not versed in the subtle arguments by which our wise and all­knowing father has set the hallowed hours we now enjoy. Yet on the second point, that of not distinguishing be­tween enjoying the company of a mem­ber of the opposite gender in the privacy of one's room and enjoying the company of the sexual favors of one 
such member in said privacy, I must hold firm -and will since I am cor­roborated by the wisdom of my elders. Those who wish to make the grievous error should realize there is no signif­icant difference between the appear­ance of an immoral act and the com­mitting of the act itself. In previous generations, more civilized than our barbarous age, society was scandalized when a couple would promenade with­out an escort. Their penalty was, of course, marriage (a more onerous and might I say apropos punishment for parietals violation than our present so­lution). 
Nonetheless, such querulous liberals as our senators agree that the two are indeed different. Yet the esteem of our university, the air of Christian virtue and impeccable honor comes not from the fact that all her students are vir­tuous or honorable. On the contrary, it is because we have the appearance that any dishonesty or illiberality is impossible that significant freedom to err is precluded-a fact which the codes of this glorious university bear out. 
Moreover, I might add, any attempt to separate parietals from sexual issues is only the first step to the former's elimination. And then we are only a breath away from (perish the thought) coed dormitories. If parietals are not concerned with regulating sexual mores, and so goes this perfidious argu­ment, then what is their purpose? Ob­viously such myopic interlocuters fail to realize their purpose is more than merely to prohibit sexual encounters but to suppress the possibility of inflam­ing sexual desires which are wont to haunt even the most temperate of minds. It is only by removing the temptation that our students shall be virtuous or maintain the appearance of virtue which, as we agreed, are two names for the same thing. 
Only then shall our fears of scan­dalous behavior be abated. Only then will our lascivious and corrupt wills be channeled away from perdition. I most sincerely hope our august senate ponders my rough and untutored argu­ments before they wield the power to unleash our university on a course both uncontrollable and uncertain. 
Michael Ialacci is a senior English and philosophy major and a regular View­point columnist. 
Before break, a group calling itself Pax Christi protested with a moment of silence the Mass dedicating the Clarke Memorial. What they objected to, according to one member, was the militaristic nature of the dedication and the wording of the memorial, "Pro Patria et Pace" (for fatherland and peace) because "it is precisely this mis­taken dedication to fatherland­nationalism that often . . . rebukes peace." According to this group, "The God of peace is never glorified by human violence." 

Chris Julka 
in plain english 
There is something very sympathetic in this appeal. It is certainly fortunate that today we live in an era in which many people, though not everybody, has put nationalism back where it belongs -on the backseat to morality. Pacifism has a definite role, especially for Christians. Too many leaders both in the past and today have thought noth­ing of having thousands of young men blown to bits just so their countries could increase their gross national product by one percent or get a larger share of silk trade. 
Supporting pacifism relative to the greater good is one thing, however. An­other is advocating unconditional pacifism, where fighting is never jus­tifiable in any circumstance, and where such groups as ROTC are considered as incompatible with a Catholic univer­sity, as many have claimed in The Ob­server. 
Isn't it exaggerating things a bit to protest a dedication for those who fought against powers like the Third Reich? After all, the inscription on the memorial does not read "Pro Patria et Martia." 
Jerry Falwell is not the only one who likes to appeal to Scripture, and adv­ocates of unconditional pacifism often point to such Biblical statements as "love your enemies," "turn the other cheek," "those who live by the sword die by the sword,'' and ''do good to them that persecute you," as evidence for their case. Clearly, these statements are valid for the Christian, and too many people are too willing to comfor­tably forget them. There is no question that the Bible teaches pacifism when it is relative to the greater good of loving God and others, which is almost always the case. 
But Jesus himself also expressly warned his disciples that they would have to use swords in the future (Luke 22:36). In fact the very man who said "turn the other cheek" also said, "Do not suppose that I have come to bring peace to earth. I did not come to bring peace but a sword."CMatthew 10:34) 
In addition, St. Paul explicitly gave nations the right to use the sword in the service of God's will (Romans 13:4). Furthermore, in contrast to those who feel that belonging to ROTC is incom­patible with being Catholic, when asked what was necessary for salvation by a group of soldiers, Jesus did not include a change of profession in his advice. 
But how could the very man who said "Turn the other cheek" take positions like this? The difference lies in conflict­ing definitions of peace. Jesus implied that there is more to peace than just the absence of war. Is peace really peace when it is based on lies and in­justice? For those who benefit from the status quo, perhaps it is. But Jesus looked with sympathy on those who don't benefit from status quo as well. 
I will not let the Bible have the last word in this, however, because many people do not think it has the last word. Furthermore, there are other criticisms of unconditional pacifism. 
What's the difference between being directly responsible for a violent act and only indirectly responsible? Let's say we had not recruited 11 million men to fight in World War II. Would we have been exempted from responsibility for the possible extermination of an entire race and the domination of Europe by a totalitarian system? True, we would not have done this ourselves, but the possible deaths and repression would have nevertheless hinged on a decision made of our own free wills. Sins of omis­sion are just as grave as sins of com­mission. What's the difference ul­timately if we or somebody else pulls the trigger? One act is less messy than the other, but the result is ultimately the same. The aim should be to have the trigger pulled less often, regardless of who pulls it. 
I am not about to advocate the Clausewitzian view of war popular in Prussia in the late 1800s and in the Com­munist bloc today, in which war is noth­ing more than an extension of diplomacy. I am also not saying that fighting is permissable even if there is a just cause. Fighting is only justifiable when there is a just cause and when it is a last resort. 
Thus demonstrations for peace are needed more than ever. But is protest­ing the Clarke Memorial really tan­tamount to the same thing? 
Chris Julka is a junior American Studies major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a difference. Write to P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
General Board 



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan slty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 
Tuesday, November 25, 1986 -page 7 
Doing unto others 
MADHU MALIK features writer 

In "The Apartheid Crisis," J"~ther Oliver 
F. Williams, a professor of management ethics in the M.B.A. program at Notre Dame, presents a reveaUrig picture of the tragic situation in Soti'th Africa. He ex­amines the 'horribJ~ monster apartheid' In the context o('south Africa and dis­cusses the implications that it has on the every day life pf the blacks and whites. 
The book ~utlines the problem in South Africa, Its hi\tory, and the various strat­egies propdsed for solution. It then argues for <i)ntinuing U.S. investment un­der certalri conditions. Williams begins by contr'sting a typical day in the life of a youn black manager with that of a white ,¥ executive. This contrast demon,trates that "skin color is the factor that detrtm.)nes level ofafnuence and life­style In South Africa." 
Williams religious, pol turai history of the whi South Africa In order to eXIDJa~m,,me·'t:or rent state of affairs. Next cusses the various proposals and posi­tions taken by the key actors, such as the South African government the African National Congress, the United Demo­cratic Front lnkatha, the South African Council of Churches, trade unions, and the South African business community, In attempting to overcome apartheid. 
In the final section of the book. Williams argues that "the appropriate Christian response to U.S. investment in South Africa is a synthesis of religious commit­ment with political and economic judge­ment." He argues that U.S. companies should remain in South Africa and he bases his argument on two principles ­the Principle of Proportionality and the Stewardship Ethic. 
The Principle of Proportionality states that If the companies are doing more good than harm then they should remain in South Africa. The good side, Williams argues, of companies investing in the country is that they provide the blacks with economic and trade union power. The most important aspect according to Williams, is that through participation in trade unions, the blacks are getting a taste of solidarity and brotherhood, which is uniting them In the face of the com evil. Williams argues that it will be experience of solidarity that will blacks in consumer boycotts and . activities designed to win their political rights. 
Many arguing for disinvestme1;1t In South Africa have taken the Clean Hands Approach, says Williams, which is t~at once you see the evil (apartheid) you wa' your hands of it by leaving. William believes that such an attitude is inappro: priate for South Africa. Some other proponents of disinvestment argue that the departure of foreign companies will so weaken the South African government that they will finally come to the negotiat­ing table with the blacks. Williams argues that there is very little economic evidence that this strategy will work. What is needed is for companies to follow the 
wanted. lliams stayed Hurley, the President of 
the Southern Africa Conference of Cath­olic Bishops, who was also able to ar­range interviews with Church leaders, people in universities and in businesses. Williams had contacted firms in the United States prior to his departure to arrange meetings with their managers In South Africa. He travelled to Johannes­burg and met with people from major American corporations. A lot of doors were opened for Williams because of his connections with the Church. Despite the reluctance of the American embassy to let Americans travel in the black areas, Iiams, accompanied by a guide and black priests visited these said Mass In Soweto 
stated "very claimed that they treated by the U.S. lams was not too sympa­He believes that they have the magnitude of change in apartheid has caused. "They self-enclosed places and do not that their affluence depends on <IIPc·nnrl:o•rv status of the blacks." The Williams said, "overwhelmed me kindness." They were a little afraid, they appreciate the Interest that the In the United States have shown 
expresses three aims that he achieve by writing this book. one Is to help more people un­rlPJI!l:t::mrl the seriousness of the evil of and to help them see the mag­and tragic dimension of the situa-
Secondly, he hopes to make a strong case for U.S. corporations remaining in South Africa, who for moral reasons, are willing to dismantle apartheid In the workplace and in white society. Finally, as a professor concerned with ethics, Wil­liams' advice to students today is that It is important to understand the com­plexities of a problem that appears to be black and white before making a deci­sion. Williams emphasizes the need to think seriously and to listen to all sides of the problem before coming to a con­clusion. 

way commitment. 

Stars in your eyes 
This week's Horoscope: 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) The best way to handle a nasty tongue assault is to ignore it. Those who know you know the truth. Others will soon be able to spot the lies. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) A loved one's problems may weigh heavily on you for a while. But cheer up. Soon both your bur­dens will grow lighter. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-Mar. 20) It looks a bit dark now, but you'll soon swim Into brighter waters. Meanwhile, make plans for the big holiday season ahead. Good things await you. 
Aries (Mar. 21-Apr. 19) Domes­tic situations improve. Face the upcoming holiday season with more enthusiasm and less anx­iety. Sure things can go wrong, but most goes well. 
Virgo (Aug. 2.3-Sept. 22) Con­tinued positive reports come through as you complete each new facet ofyour tasks. The work may be dlfncult but the rewards will make up for it. 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) Be more selfish in your behalf. Take more time to do things that you enjoy. Start by putting your name at the top of your priorities list. 
Cancer (June 21-Jul. 20) A ten­
dency to demand more of a 
friend than he or she can give to 
you can alienate that friend for 
good. The rules you live by may 
be too strict. 
Leo (Jul. 21-Aug. 22) Fix up the Lion's Den 'cause kin are fixin' to come for holiday visits. Deeper ties are forged as memories are recalled between and among loved ones. 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) Every­one admires your capacity for loyalty and trust. But expect to have that capacity tested In a very surprising way. 
Libra (Sept. 2.3-0ct. 22) Take heart. Just when you think there's no way to solve a perplex­ing problem, an easy solution comes from a previously over­looked source. A special friend shares your triumph. 
Scorpio (Oct. 2.3-Nov. 2 I) A long-time admirer makes a sin­cere overture. Overcome your shyness and respond positively, as it opens opportunities for ex­panding social life. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 2 I) A real friend won't put pressure on you to act more quickly than you can. Going step-by-step Is slower, but you're less likely to fall. 
------~---------­
The Observer Tuesday, November 25, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
WVFI-AM 64 airs "Speaking of Sports" tonight at 10. Host Rudy Brandl welcomes Rick Reitbrock and Dan Mason for a discussion of the NFL playoff picture as well as the opening months of the NBA and NHL seasons. To participate in the discussion call 239-6400. -The Observer 
The SMC varsity track and field team requests that all interested students should stop by the Varsity Athletics office in Angela before leaving on Thanksgiving break to get information on the spring season. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team will have a mandatory meeting Monday, Dec. 1, at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theatre. Eligibility forms will be filled out, and proof of insurance and the balance due for the trip to Jackson Hole will both be collected. For more information contact Kathy (4029) or Jeff (3660). -The Observer 
The ND women's track club will begin organized prac­tices after Thanksging break. There will be a meeting for all interested runners on Monday, Dec. 1, at 3:30p.m. in the basement of Farley Hall. For more information contact Dan (239-6989), Kathleen (4189) or Nancy (4059). -The Ob­server 
Reggie Jackson was released by the California Angels Monday. The 40-year-old slugger had completed the final year of a five-year contract. Jackson said that if no other team showed interest, he would, "step aside with dignity." Jackson batted .241 with 18 homers and 58 RBI's last season. -Associated press 
Todd Worrel, the St. Louis Cardinals' relief ace, was named the National League's Rookie of the Year Monday. Worrel had a league-leading 36 saves and 9-10 record and received 23-of-24 first-place votes. -Associated Press 

Dolphins, Marino whip Jets, 45-3 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Dan Marino threw for 288 yards and four touch­downs and Lorenzo Hampton ran for 148 yards and scored three times as the Miami Dol­phins beat the New York Jets 45-3 Monday night and ended the Jets' nine-game winning streak. 
Marino completed 29 of 36, in an uncharacteristic short­passing ball-control game that kept the ball for almost two­thirds of the game and kept the explosive New York offense off the field. He hit Nat Moore with 22-and 21-yarders and threw for 1-yard scores to Hampton 

Hockey 
continuedfrom page 12 

With the Tommies on the power play in the first period, the Irish messed up their de­fensive coverage, allowing Tony Cunella to walk in alone and beat Irish goalie Tim Lukenda. 
And in the second period, an Irish defenseman slipped, al­lowing St. Thomas to walk in alone and increase the lead. 
"They capitalized on our mistakes," said Irish defen­seman Lance Patten. "We just couldn't convert on our chances." 
and Bruce Hardy as Miami scored on seven of its first eight poseesions. 
Tnat gave him 31 touchdown passes, making him the first NFL quarterback ever to throw for 30 TDs in three straight years. 
Hampton, running against an injury-decimated New York front line missing Joe Klecko, Mark Gastineau, Marty Lyons and Lance Mehl, burst 54 yards for a score on Miami's first pos­session. He also scored from a yard out in the second period and caught the pass from Marino. 
It was the first 100-yard game by a Miami back in 41 games, 
Part of the reason was the goaltending of Tony Benson, who turned away 11 shots in the 
first  period  and  24  for  the  
game.  
Smith  was  pleased for  the  

most part with the play of the Irish, but he knows one aspect of the game has to be worked on. 
"We're making too many mental mistakes,'' he said. "We need to play looser and with a little more confidence." 
The team was without defen­seman Roy Bemiss, who came down with a case of the flu, and Tom Smith, who did not make the trip because of an illness. 

dating back to Oct. 14, 1984, and the first this season against the Jets. 
The win evened Miami's record at 6-6 and kept their flickering wild-card playoff hopes alive. The Jets, who lost for the first time since the second week of the season, are 10-2, a game ahead of the New England Patriots in the AFC east. 
It was a complete reversal of form for Miami, which had ranked last in the NFL in rush­ing entering the game and next­to-last in defense. The Jets had won the first game between the two 51-45 in overtime. 
The team will have to stay on campus for Thanksgiving as it prepares to face Lake Forest this weekend. 
The Foresters have jumped 5-0-1 start, sweeping St. Mary's <Minn.) and Maruqette, and going 1-0-1 with Michigan­Dearborn. 
"We're going to have our hands full," siad Smith, who noted that playing at home is important for this game even though the students will not be on the campus. 
He also noted that his team needs to work on coming out of its own end, handling the rush by opposing defensemen, and on passing. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES  LOST: LONG BLACK DRESS COAT OF GREAT VALUE AT DILLON FORMAL. PLEASE RETURN. REWARD. CALL  WANTED HOUSEMATE FOR TWO GRAD STUDENTS. next semester Hop, sk1p & jump from campus. only  TICKETS  Mary Hellman. Hope your b-day was a great one You're one of most valued people al The B1g 0 -Your lellow  UNO es war. dass zwe1 Madchen stch tn lunch getroffen haben. und durch dte Ze1t Schwestern worden  
LISA 284-4329.  $150! Information? Call 234-3624.  workers.  s1nd  
E1ne von d1e DUO he1sste SOPHIA. und  
TYPING AVAILABLE  s•e war dunkel und schon  
287-4082 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER. 233-7009. WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 Professional word processing services of term papers. resumes, mailings, etc. Center Services Company, conveniently located in downtown South Bend, Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. -5 p.m., 282­ LOST--SILVER BRACELET 111t9 ROSES MAKE UP FRONT OF BRACELET AND PICTURES OF MARY ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE. CHAIN·LIKE MAKE-UP. PLEASE RETURN "MUCH PERSONAL AND SENTIMENTAL VALUE" SHANNON x4045 REWARD. Lost: LIGHT GRAY LAMBSWOOL SCARF. probably in South Dining Hall. Call Elaine at 272-6016 after 7 pm. REWARD$$.  WANTED Waitresses. WSiters needed at Knol­lwood Country Club. No experience nec­essary. Knollwood Country Club, 16633 Baywood Dr.. Granger, ln.. 277-!541. Need ride to Cincinnati for Thanksgiving. Leave anyt1me. Will share expenses. Please call Mike at 2129.  I NEED INDIANA & N CAROLINA TIXS.272-6306 Need GA T1x tor Indiana Game. Will pay b1g bucks. Call Emil or Jeff at 288-1044 between Bam and 5pm. Need tix to USC game? I've got 5. Call Jim £4108  WARNING'" To all SMC and ND women· BEWARE ol two very rude ·DOMERS" from Pangborn· CHUCK and NORM Is 1t true that John Denver w1ll be at the Rocky Mounta1n(H1gh) Club's mov1e tomght at B·OO 1n the Grace Hall study lounge? Let us have a care not to dtsclose our hearts to those who shut up thetrs agatnst us.  D1e andere hetsste Gert1e. uns SIB war hell. (And what hell') Und d1e be1de Madchen haben 1m Herbst Geburtstag FROHLICHE GEBURTSTAG. SCHWES. Love you like a maddog. 22 1sn't the end of the world for one as dynam1c as you. Th1nk you can come out of your shell long enough to enJoy? I th1nk you can' Just remember Budapest. 1f you need a model The best of t1mes. schwas Thank you. god bless Gert  
8550. NOW doing typ1ng tor students. 729 So.Walnut. Call 232-1683.  FOUND: PAIR OF BLUE GLOVES CALL 272-3317. FOUND IN FRONT OF POOL BY LIBRARY WEDNESDAY.  NEED RIDE TO KANSAS CITY, MO. OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL GREG AT 4352.  PERSONALS  TRUE tnends reserve noth1ng· the prop­erty of one belongs to the other. and the  And Santiago When was your birthday? Thanks for keep1ng me 1nformed. The author of the last one.  
feeltngs of one are to be shared w1th the other  HAPPY BIRTHDAY" (How do you say that 1n Spamsh?)  
PITI CLUB BUS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE For further 1nfo. call Mike x3402 or Rob  LOST Brown leather briefcase with combrnatron-Jock catches from the library concourse on 1t/1 9-86. I desperately need the contents of the briefcase if noth­ Need nde Wed to M1lw Call Chuck 2187  OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRYOUTT03 AM. U.S. 31 N. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  STEPHEN EDDY FURER  I owe you a Deluxe. (Wonder. world') EnJOY break  
x1612  Ing else. If found. please return to 301  Need ride to Philly for Thanksg1v1ng  Have a Happy THANKSgiving!  Sexy l1ps. eh?  
WORD PROCESSING NEAR ND. CALL MARY 232-2436  O'Shag or call 277-6995.  Break. Will share expenses. Call £2985.  SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS for $$$ Present thiS ad and recetve an additional 10% OFF of any used book in .store!  We mlaa you, Love, The Glrlo on St. Louis  Is that all there 1s to 1t? I th1nk not What else was 1nvolved. Dee? (You II never f1nd me)  
LOST/FOUND LOSTII MY KEYS. F1ve keys on a brass NO keycha1n. One of the keys is blue. Please call Stephanie at 277-824 t Thanks' HEAR YE. HEAR YE. If you lost an H.P  LOST· BLUE SKI GLOVES IN EITHER O'SHAG OR CUSHING ON WEDNES­Enterprising, hungry studont needed to DAY 11119 IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL start Vuarnet and Ray-Ban discount fran­ED AT 234-7564. TANKS! chise. Very lucrative position. Must be personable, Innovative, with great sales ability. Call (203) 838-66!4 between 9 FOUND BASEBALL GLOVE on S.Quad and 5. If you reach service, leave name, in front of Alumni. Call Mary x3781 telephone number, and address. We will get information out ASAP. FOUND: A nng 1n Haggar on 111t3. Call L1sa at x3719 to identify. '-------~~~~_F_O_R_SA_LE~ _ FOR RENT _  LARGE selection of ChfloMonarch Notes PANDORA'S BOOKS. 808 Howard St.. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 Days a week. 10-530 Need ride Eaatlll I need a ride to Pittsburgh over Thanksgiving break. you are go1ng east on the turnpike and can offer me a ride, call Mary at 3726. Share usual expenses. "HAVE YOURSELF A MERRY UTILE CHRISTMAS" COMING DEC. 3  The DOME sh1rts are com1ng... The DOME sh1rts are coming... Tired ol Turkey? Call THE YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE for a deliCIOUS submanr:te sandwich dehvered right to your dorm JuJu-Hope your f1nger IS better. Thanks for your help & aga1n I am sorry you got hurt. Joan Just a Tuescay note to say thanKs to CAREY GELS for bemg a great fnend1ayout person.  HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY TO THE BLONDE BOMBSHELL! LOVE YA. JEN' CHLEBS.POPPER. AND BURP THE SECOND FLOOR IN HOWARD HALL IS POSSESSED · tq Tnplets. Jule. T. Woman. El Honey, and all my other tnends· Thanks for gett1ng me through the past few months--1 could not have done it Without y'all and every­thing you d1d for me (EXCEPT the ferret thing).Happy Thanksg1ving. Love. Bng1tta uh ... l forgot what I was gomg to say. Oh yea. I love you -thanks for everythmg me  
calculator before break, call1412 to rden­ I don't get to tell  you because I'm  so  
tlfy a.s.a.p lost: Fur hat, russian style on Thursday Nov 13 1n L1brary Aud1tonum or Csc build­Ing between 7 and 9 pm.l got it from Russ1a and w1ll never go back aga1n. Call 277-2282  UNIVERSITY PARK APTS UNIVERSITY PARK APTS Need 1 or 2 roommates tor spnng. NO LEASE OBLIGATION Com­pletely furnished except for your room! CALL AL or KEVIN at 277-8938.  Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government ? Get the facts today! Call t -312-7 42-1142 Ext 73t6 FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses. hardwood convertible frames and acces4  HEY JUDE(HUTCH):HAPPY 25TH BIRTHDAYIFROM YOUR "DARLINK" HALL CLERK RIDERS NEEDED !!!!11!!1! to D.C. area  spazzy and busy, but I wouldn't be here w1thout you. love ya. have a great break. Gert Happy B-Day Babydoll~ You're Legal Now!!!¢ A minute hasn't passed when I have not chenshed the day you came  CREME DE LA CREME­NOCTURN&NIGHTFLIGHT WSND 88.9 FM. Every mght beg1nning at m1dmght! The best of the best-Sheila McDaniel, John Rogers, Tim Kelly, Tom Russell, Pat Clark. Jesse Pesta, Tom Tierney. T1m Malone, and Don Seymour! The altern­ative to-South Bend rad1o!  
sones. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South  for Thanksg1ving break. leaving Tuesday  into my life. I love you, now and forever.  Duck Duck Moose!  
Help' I lost my keys on Nov. 14.!986 somewhere on campus between the north din1ng hall and the architecture bldg. I really need my keys to get 1nto my apartment There are approxrmately  3 OR 4-BDRM. NEWLY DECORATED, AVAILABLE NOW FOR 2ND SEMES­TER. 3-5 STUDENTS, $100 PER STU­DENT PLUS UTILITIES. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM. NEAR PORTAGE & ANGELA. 234-6688  MIChigan St. 233-8176. Want basketball tickets? Good seat-sec­tion 5, row 5. Make an offer close to reg.  evening. Call George 3636 .......................... RIDERS NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND NY LEAVE WED. 10AM. SHARE EX­PENSES X1157  Domerland hails the arrival of the FUN AUNT!" Thanks for coming Titi Hope you have a great ttme--Tex says hi too! Love your favorite ntece  Sorry about the paper fiasco. You always knew your goose was s1lly "If you love s1. set 1t free. If it comes back to you 1t's yours." I want you but need space.  
7  keys  on  th1s  typ1cal  round,  price. Tom or Joe X1945  THE SNITE NEEDS YOU! Volunteer a  
brown. wooden key cha1n. You know, the  few hours of your time on the evening of  To the Protonated Molecule- 
one w1th the NO 1ns1gn'a on 1t. If found.  2 Rnd. trip tix SB to Orlando  Thurs.. Dec.4 and the Museum will throw  DEAREST JENNIFER.  THANKS  FOR  
please call £272-8839. I'd really appre­crate rt.  Furn1shed room11ouse for rent.2 blocks E of campus.t roommate.272-0127  Dec. 20-Dec. 29. $550. 288-5535.  a party in your honor. Call the Snite for more details.  THE TWO LOVE,ED  AND  A  HALF  YEARS.  What the hell 1s tnmethylglutanate? Can I protonate it?  

The Observer Tuesday, November 25, 1986-page 9 
Lowney recovering from auto mishap 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Steve Lowney, co-captain of the Irish soccer team, is recovering from minor in­juries he sustained when he was hit by a car last Wed­nesday afternoon. 
Lowney, a junior from San Jose, Calif., is a wingback and sweeper for the Irish soccer team. He started all 22 games this season, regis­tering two assists. 
Lowney said that he was crossing Juniper Road, just east of the library, when the car approached. At first he did not see the car and tried to jump, but the car hit his left leg, sending him into the windshield. Lowney said that he then fell to the pave­ment. 
Lowney was taken to St. Joseph's Medical Center. He was kept there until Satur­day to run tests to determine the extent of the injuries. 
"There were no broken bones," said Lowney. "But there was a lot of muscle damage in the pelvic region and in the left hip." 
Lowney said that while he will be sore for three weeks, the injuries should not affect his soccer playing. The team begins winter workouts in January. 


Observer sports staff, Happy Thanksgiving 
J.R. Aquatic Center 
51333 US31 N 
177-0058 
, l~olibau special 
Mask, Foot Fins and Snorkel retail $105 sale $65 Mas~. Strap Fins and Snorkel 
· "~--retatl $/34 
.~, .mle $85 
All rental equipment at very low prices! 
houn: m-Th 11-5 Friday 11-7 we accept Saturday /0-.1 Visa & Mastercard 
Soft 

Contact~ 




Lenses $19.86 
Daily or Extended Wear 
.----------------, Notre Dame game plan for 
1986-87 are 5-10 sophomore Lisa Kuhns, and juniors Kathy Bar­ron, 5-9, and Kathy Brom­meland, 6-3. 
The freshman class is a good one as well, with guards Julie Garske and Carol Elliott, and 
forwards  Annie  Schwartz,  
Cathy  Emigholz  and  Molly  
Mahoney.  

Other newcomers include a pair of assistant coaches, Bill Fennelly and Caren Truske. 
Up to this point in the season preparation, a few questions have surfaced. Who will pick up the slack in the outside­shooting department? Will the Irish be able to develop a con­sistent transition game? And, of course, can Notre Dame sur­vive a grueling schedule and impress the selection commit-
Now you can treat yourself to 
the contact lenses you have always wanted at a price anyone can affon.l! For a limited time Dr. David Tavel has reduced the price of Softmate thily or extended wear contact lenses to an unheard of price cf $19.86.• 
Call for an appointment today. You'll sec beuer for less. Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical has been caring for eyes for over 40 years with 32 locations in Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the care of your family's eyes to Indiana's largest, oldest and most trusted name i:1 cyecare? 

•Exam i• n:quirc:J •t the time of purchase and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on Drior orders and may not be combinc:J with any other di.scount. 
Providers for all insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servinKindiana's evecare nuds (or over 40 years. We carry on a tradition o( 
I,Pl~ Medicaid Welco 

e:r:ce/lence that is unsurpassed. And that's a 
SOUTH BEND • MISHAWAKA

promise (rom the doctor." 
Broadmoor Pla7.a K-Mart/Martin Center 

a~ 
Aao.<s from Scott5dale M.U Next door to O.co Dru~ 
_:..:..------291-4000 258-SO(JO 
in the history of Monday Night Football, 45-3. See the accompanying story on page 8 for details. 
tee enough to secure its first­ever bid to NCAA post-season play? 
DiStanislao might not even have those answers just yet. 
"Everyone has to pitch in and take up the burden of replacing Trena's points," she says. "Everyone has to do their job and do it to the best of their ability, taking advantage of the chances to get open and to score. 
"Right now, (the transition game) is our soft spot. God knows we've been working on it, because if we don't work on it we don't belong up there with the big teams. We have the per­sonnel, we've just got to put some things together in a hur­ry." 
In a hurry is right, as the Irish open the season this weekend against perennially­tough Rutgers (ranked as high as fourth in the nation in some polls), and fly south to take on top-ranked Texas, the defend­ing national champion, soon thereafter. 
But DiStanislao has never been afraid of any challenge. 
"There aren't too many things in life that can get you psyched up as much as a big game can," she says. "I look forward to seeing my players get up for a challenge. I like to know that the kids are excited about those games." 
Gavin 
continuedfrom page 12 
finished second in the NSC With 
6.6 assists per game in her role as floor general in the Notre Dame backcourt. Gavin set school records last year for as­sists in a game (15) and in a season (205), and needs just five more to pass Laura Doug­herty and her all-time Irish mark of 326. 
"Mary Gavin will have to be­come a consistent floor leader," says DiStanislao. "She'll have to get the ball where it needs to be and, yes, we're going to need for her to take the jumper and score a little more. She's going to have to make some good decisions for us." 
Joining the spunky Gavin in the backcourt will be 5-9 soph­omore Diondra Toney, a ver­satile player who started in nine of the last 10 games of the season and proved that she can handle a first-string position at the college level. 
Also expected to figure in the 
the ''GOLDEN DOME'' 
in a 5-color limited edition lithograph by 
SCOft L. HENDRIE (see it hanging in the OBSERVER office.) edition: 950 artist proofs: 50 Price *30.00 PosT PAID 
Send check or M.O. to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO 1704 Morton Avenue Elkhart, IN 46516 IND. Orders Add 6% Ta.x/Bhip 1 Wk. 


-~------------------------~ 
! 
• 
t 
l• 
~ 
k• 
• 
t 
' 
I ~ 
The Observer 
McMahon out for year 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill.-Quar­terback Jim McMahon could be out for the remainder of the NFL season after his shoulder injury was aggravated when a Green Bay lineman slammed him to the turf, Chicago Bears Coach Mike Ditka said Mon­day. 
"I doubt if we will have his services the rest of the year," Ditka said. "He has shoulder discomfort. It's all up to the doctors in Los Angeles." 
McMahon was scheduled to leave for Los Angeles on Tues­day and see Dr. Frank Jobe, an orthopedist who specializes in elbows and shoulders. 
In the second quarter of Sun­day's 12-10 home victory, McMahon was tossed to the ground by Green Bay nose tackle Charles Martin, who was ejected from the game for the personal foul by referee Jerry Markbreit. 
"The ball had been thrown, the quarterback was at rest and he (Martin) came in and took the quarterback, picked him up and stuffed him," Markbreit said. 
Unavailable for comment Monday, McMahon had said after the game that the Martin foul "didn't help" the injury. 


Correction 
A headline in yestTJday's Observer incorrectly; stated the Anchorage wou d host the 1994 Winter Olympics. Anchorage was selected by the U.S. Olympic Committee to be its candidate to host that year's winter games. 

Tuesday, November 25, 1986 -page 10 


SMC basketball jumps to 1-1 start 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 

The workouts began in early October. By mid-month the team practiced on a more con­sistent schedule. Now, at the beginning of the 86-87 season, Head Coach Marvin Wood has set his team's goals for the Saint Mary's basketball squad. 
Like most coaches, he hopes for a winning season. But on top of that, Wood hopes his wo­men will reach the districts, which the Belles fell short of last year. Perhaps the most dif­ficult aspect of the new season will be finding some team con­sistency. 
"There are games when the ball bounces good, and there are games when the ball bounces bad," said Coach Wood. "With women's teams, competition is unpredictable." 
This element of surprise led the Belles to a 1-1 start this season when they travelled to Joliet, Ill., to play in the St. Francis Invitational. 
The season began Saturday for Saint Mary's as it faced host St. Francis College. The season's first game got off to a slow start, as the Belles shot a poor 22 for 79 from the field. The game also included a seven-minute dry spell that put the Belles behind at the half, 29-20. 
The Belles could not hang on offensively in the second half against the very big and physi­cal Saints, but St. Mary's gave St.Francis a strong fight none­theless. With 10 minutes left in the game, Wood put the Belles in a full-court press. St. Mary's would pull to within five points, but was unable to pull any closer. St. Francis remained on top to win the game, 61-50. 
However, the Belles came back in the second game to take out tournament favorite, Car­roll College (Wise.), 63-49. 
"Carroll College has produced outstanding teams in the past two seasons," said Wood. "Their All-American, Dusolv, had 22 rebounds and 27 points in their first game. It Belles held Dusolv to 12 points and 8 rebounds, taking away her perimeter shooting and post play. 
was  our  goal  to  work  on  
keeping her out."  
And  work  they  did.  The  


"The defense kept her out by talking a lot and marking her whenever she was in the player's area," said Wood. 
The Belles took a tenuous 28­27 lead at the half, only to see the lead change seven times in the second half. Saint Mary's gradually built a seven-point lead, and then rolled to its first win of the season. 
"The freshman have been ac­cepted by the returning players and they are very dedicated to the team," said Wood. 
Three freshman making strong front line contributions are Anne Gallagher, Amy Baranko and Julie Radke. Radke showed well in the tournament by reaching double figures in both games, 23 and 16 points, respectively. Radke shot 40 percent from the field and was perfect from the line. 
Tuesday the Belles travel to Hope College, intent on improv­ing their record. 
Kelly to stay on as Twins' manager in '87 
Associated Press . 

MINNEAPOLIS-Tom Kelly, who replaced fired Minnesota Twins Manager Ray Miller on an interim basis Sept. 12, was named manager for 1987 Monc day. 
Kelly, 36, the Twins' third­base coach since 1983, becomes the first native Minnesotan to manage the team since the franchise moved from Wash­ington in 1961. He is the 11th manager in Twins history. 
His managerial debut came in 1977, when he was player­manager for Tacoma of the Class AAA pacific Coast League. He managed Visalia of the Class A California League to division titles in 1979 and 1980 and guided Orlando to a first­half division title in the Class AA Southern League in 1981. His career minor-league managerial record was 338-282. 

Minnesota finished 71-91, in sixth place in the AL west, four games ahead of last-place Seattle and 21 games behind division-winning California. 

ULLERY INK 



Ecuadorian sweaters are back 
WORD PROCESSING 
DESK TOP PUBLISHING 


as 
We will do term papers and theses at 
~~&'~ 
reasonable prices 
(formerly Lisa's Wild & Wooly) 
for more information call 

presents their newest Fall line 
219-272-0880 

in the main floor LaFortune Student Center, South Hallway 
December 1,2,3 


VOLUNTEER 
Come meet the executive director of the International Special Olympics on Tuesday, December 2, 
HAS THE ANSWER 

1986 at 6:30pm on the second floor of LaFortune -­
Engagement Calendars 

Notre Dame Lounge. 
Pottery T-Shirts Christmas cards 
INTERNATIONAL 
1 • 9 • 8 . 7 
SUMMER 

,. 



\iii
.. 
SPECIAL OlYMPICS GAMES'M• 

Find out what you can do to help these special athletes from 65 countries realize a special dream. Be a student host, a friend, a translator, a guide, a coach, a supporter, a driver: Notre Dame ­SMC is a small place to host such a big event. 
WE NEED THE HELP OF EVERYONE WHO PLANS TO BE 
Open Mon.-Sat. 1 0:00·4:00 

AT NOTRE DAME FROM JULY 30 -'AUGUST 8, 1987
Sun. 1:00·4:00 

Office of International Student Affairs: 239-5243 
lf¥\illSE*• 





']I['4t:)t~tCil~----------------------------------------------------------T•u•e•sd•a•y•'•N•ov•e•m•b•e•r•25•'•1•98•6•-•p•a•ge
...ll 

Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 

NOT IF r SE:E"YCIJ 
r:IR.ST 
"' 

The Daily Crossword 


Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar, "Trends within the Peruvian Church and Their Relation with the Political Crisis," by Catalina Hagopian, 131 Decio 
4:30 p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Molecular Analysis of Bacterial Outer Membrane Proteins, by Dr. Phillip Kleb­ba, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
6:00 p.m.: International Thanksgiving Dinner sponsored by the Campus Bible Fellowship and the Baptist Mid-Missions, 19525 Pendle Road, for reservations call 277-8471 7:00p.m.: Slide-lecture, artist and visiting Notre Dame Professor Billy Hassell, Houston, Texas, 200 Riley Hall, sponsored by Department of Art, Art History, and Design 7:30p.m.: Latin American Film Series, "Portrait of Theresa," 1979, color, 115 minutes, Cuba, Annenburg Auditorium, 
KEEP UPINA 

CHANGING 
WORLD 
Take advantage of the wealth of knowledge 
availablt! from your Government. The U.S. 
Government Printing Office has produced a 
new catalog. It tells about the most popular 
books sold by the Government-nearly 
1.000 in all. Books on agriculture, business, children. diet, energy, health, history, space, and much more. For a free copy of this new catalog, write-
New Catalog 
Post Office Box 37000 Washington, D.C. 20013 

Mark Williams 
OH,6051/.I LOOK 
WEL~nL 

AT THE TIM£! SEt YOU! I'Vf GOT TO 
BE 601N6 / INHY 1'116HT1'1tf/£<; 
sponsored by Kellogg Institute and De­partments of Anthropology and Commu­nication and Theatre 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Roast Top Round of Beef au Jus Sweet & Sour Chicken Rolled Shrimp Omelet with Bisque Sauce Grilled Ham & Swiss Cheese Sand­wich Saint Mary's 
Roast Beef Baked Fish Beef & Bean Chimichanga Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Burglarize 4 Mario of NY 9 Fashion 
designer 13 Champion 14 Custom 15 Division word 16 Move in a 
certain way 17 Conclusion 18 Where Greek 
met Greek 19 Nov. events 21 Horse 22 Polynesian 23 Assyrian deity 25 Varnish 
ingredient 28 Church 
colonnade 31 During 34 Officeholder 36 Tailor's need 37 Ancient 
Cretans 39 Vane reading 40 Place for a 
hat? 42 Take five 43 TV's Remington 6-years 44 Ghostly (elderly) 47 Rustic musi-7 Brainy group 
cal pipes 8 Part of PLO: 49 Makes happy abbr. 53 Sam the sleuth 9 Bother 55 Aspirant 1 0 Come between 58 Buddhist 11 Sioux Indian 
sacred dialect 12 Highway 59 Far East 14 Iron e.g. 
temple 20 Student 60 Baby food 21 Deceptions 61 R-Roger 24 Made yarn 62 Made a speech 26 Skirt type 63 Govt. agcy. 27-ear and 64 Certain party out... 65 Ruhr city 29 Travelers' 66 Small state: havens 
abbr. 30 Proofreader's word 
DOWN 31 Honeybee 1 Demolishes 32 Coin 2 Fla. city 33 Among other 3 Cover with things 
jewels 35 Pen 4 Dog 37 Hand-to-hand 5 Destroy fight 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 

38 Angered 41 Paying 
attention 42 Peruse 45 Blush 46 Homeric epic 48 Wound marks 50 Recorded 51 Public 
warehouse 52 Flower part 53 Ems and Baden 54 Bygone 56 Moslem VIPs 57 Memo 59 Part of EAP 


Tuesday, November 25, 1986-page 12 

Women's hoops set to open as team searches for new leader 
By MARTY STRASEN to generate the offense DiS­conson natives-sophomore for­Assistant Sports Editor tanislao is referring to. She ward Heidi Bunek, at 6-4, and averaged 19.6 points a game, junior center Sandy Botham, at According to Head Coach set 15 Notre Dame records 6-2. Botham led the North Star Mary DiStanislao, there is life (including all-time career Conference with a .639 field­after Trena Keys. scorer) and established herself goal percentage, while Bunek, 
But no one ever said life as the best player in the history right behind in second place, would be easy for the Notre of Irish women's basketball. shot .596. Dame women's basketball More importantly, the Marion, "Lavetta is a solid, unsung team in the 1986-87 season, as Ind., native led Notre Dame to hero-type player," says DiS­it faces its toughest schedule in a 23-8 all-around record and a tanislao. "She's very good the history of the program third-place finish in the Wo­defensively and a consistently without the player who had so men's National Invitational hard worker. As captain, she'll much to do with the squad's Tournament last year. have to spread her defensive emergence to a legitimate "She was an exceptional tal­knowledge around, especially Division I contender. ent, and we've also lost a fine to the new players. 
"Everyone wants to know perimeter shooter and a good "You've got to point to the about life after Trena," says leader in Lynn Ebben," DiS­inside when you talk about our DiStanislao, who enters her tanislao says, referring to her strengths, with Sandy Botham, seventh year at the Irish helm other co-captain who Heidi Bunek and Beth Morrison after last year's most success­graduated in the Class of '86. (a 6-5 junior who was injured ful campaign ever. "The loss "But we're talking about a most of last season). With of Trena does not mean a team that is a year older and Sandy and Heidi, the potential change in philosophy for the a year better, and they're going is there to be a double­team. All it means is that we to have to take charge like dynamite, twin towers, are going to be a different Trena did. The burden will be whatever you want to call it. team. The difference is that, in­spread out over everyone's They can be killers if they work stead of the point guard always shoulders." · on conditioning, timing and passing the baH to number 13 Those are some capable taking advantage of their and letting her create an of­shoulders, especially on the chances to score." fense, the inside players are front line. Most of those chances will be going to have to get open and Returning in the middle for dished out by 5-6 junior point make the most of their oppor­the Irish are lone senior and guard Mary Gavin, who tunities." team captain Lavetta Willis, a 
Last season, Keys was able 5-11 forward, and a pair of Wis-see GAVIN, page 9 

Durso, Geneser lead ND wrestlers at St. Louis tourney 
By STEVE MEGARGEE and day. It was like a different finals was a guy from Missouri Although team scores were Las Vegas Invitational on Sports Writer team than we had facing Air who had pinned him in the first not kept, the Irish appeared to December 5-6. Durso and Force," said Head Coach Fran period last year," said trail only Oklahoma and Wis­Geneser will try to improve on 
Rebounding from its season­McCann. "We came out with McCann. consin, finishing ahead of Illi­respective fourth and sixth opening loss to Air Force ear­the idea that we'e got to wake In addition, freshman 118-nois, Missouri, and two-time place individual finishes in last lier in the week, the Notr..e up, and we wrestled really well. pound Andy Radenbaugh Division II champion Southern year's tournament. Dame wrestling team turned in We showed much more tough­placed fourth, as did junior Dan Illinois-Edwardsville, in the a much stronger performance ness." Carrigan in the 158-pound com­tournament which lasted "It's probably the biggest in last weekend's St. Louis Notre Dame also showed that petition. Sophomore 142-pound through Friday night and for and best tournament west of Open. it had improved since last year, Pat Boyd and junior 150-pound over 12 hours on Saturday. the Mississippi. Every big 
! 
In the 35-team tournament, when only two Irish wrestlers Ron Wisniewski both came one "The tournament gave us the school west of the Mississippi the Irish produced two individ­placed in the St. Louis Open. match away from placing. opportunity to go against some will be there. It's designated ual champions and two fourth­This year, 134-pound sopho­"We put all our kids in the of the best schools in the for the better kids, so they'll 
I 
place finishers. If team scores more captain Jerry Durso open division of the tourna­country. Oklahoma and Wis­face tough competition," said had been recorded, Notre placed first for the second con­ment, which had lots of up­consin are among the top five McCann. " They have to be ex­Dame would have placed third, secutive year, and sophomore perclassmen. Even guys who teams in the nation, and Wis­posed to that, so they will know behind only ·defending Big 8 Chris Geneser won the 167-are out of college or out of col­consin has five fifth-year what to expect and not be awed champion Oklahoma and pound category. lege eligibility could enter. seniors," said McCann. by it. You have to face that kind ~ defending Big 10 runner-up "Last year, he (Geneser) Wisconsin brought 12 redshirts Notre Dame will get the op­of competition to be prepared I Wisconsin. didn't win a match, and this and Oklahoma brought 14 red­portunity to go against the na­for our goal, which is the I "It was a difference of night year the guy he beat in the shirts," said McCann. tion's top teams again in the NCAA's." 
f 
I 

I Hockey splits pair! against St. Thomas 
! 
! 
By PETE GEGEN junior center Mike McNeill Assistant Sports Editor registered his first goal of the 
season to give Notre Dame a 

The Notre Dame hockey 6-4 lead late in the second per­team moved its record to 2-4 by iod. splitting a weekend series with "It was good to see McNeill St. Thomas (Minn.). get back on track," said Smith. 
Despite getting off to a slow "McNeill's line played very start in the first game on well, as did (Tom) Mooney's Friday night, the Irish topped line, and the fourth line of Bob 
the Tommies, 6-5. Notre Dame Bilton, Bob Herber, and Tom 

was not allowed any ice time Fitzgerald played very well, 
that morning, so it took a per­where they had played sporadi­
iod of skating before the team cally before." 
got into the flow. Irish goalie Lance Madson, 
"We played ,very poorly in who was playing in front of the first period, but we escaped family and friends from Min­with a 1-1 score," said Head netonka, recorded 20 saves in Coach Lefty Smith. "But in the recording the victory. second period we improved and Saturday night's 4-3loss was the third we played even bet­a story of the Irish playing well, ter." but running into a hot 
The Irish exploded for five goaltender and making critical 

goals in the second period. mistakes. Right wing Tim Kuehl scored Jerry Durso and Chris Geneser took first place twice on the power play, and see HOCKEY, page 8 in their weight classes this weekend in the St. 








