1 ;:iUS A l'·l h A. A'J ;:;-_ ;~· •-~ .::. SPECIA~ COLLECliONS 
'M~MORIAL LIB~AKY 
Travel -page 6 
46::1~.)6
NOTRE ~AME JN 


Hurley enjoys visit 
j

at ND for weekend, 
I 

anticipates his return 1 ~ j 
..._.,.....,....
r 
"" .
. 
. 
_,, ., . -_-· 
::";·. 
The Observer/Mike May 
An Tostal 
Warm weather helped students enjoy last weekend's An Tosto/ festivities. Included in the activities were mattress races, pie eating contests and the mudpits. 

The Observer /Mike May 
and he "really appreciated it." 


Engineering prof receives award 
"Kevin's in heaven, he's hating to 
By TRACY MCCLOSKEY 
News Staff 
The College of Engineering's Outstanding Teacher Award was given to Professor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, Stuart McComas during the Col­lege's Annual Honor Award Ceremony on Aprill7. 

When asked what makes his teaching extraordinary, McComas, who has been at the University since 1963, laughed and said, "I have no idea," adding that there are many outstanding teachers in the engineering program. 
The chairman of the award's selection committee, Professor Robert Howland, said many ballots 
. 

mentioned McComas' accessibility to students, the assistance he gave to undergraduate students and his activities as a faculty advisor. 
McComas' work with the Engineering Student Center was also appreciated by the students, Howland said. 
The eighth recipient of the Outstanding Teacher Award, Mc­Comas was selected through a ballot of engineering students. 
Every · undergraduate student received a ballot and was asked to nominate the professor of their choice. Their written comments had to contain substantial evidence as to why their nominee deserved the award, Howland said. 
The selection committee, made up of Howland, previous Outstanding Teacher Award win­ners, Terrence Akai and Walter Gajda, and three senior engineering students, Michelle Hubbard, Richard Prosen and Cheryl Sid ow, reviewed the ballots and selected a winner, said Howland. 
McComas, a specialist in thermal science and heat transfer, said he is currently researching ice formation on surfaces in the environment. 
He received his bachelor's degree from Marquette University and his masters and doctoral degrees from the University of Minnesota. 
McComas received the En­vironmental Protection Agency's 
see AWARD page 4 

T-shirt sales hurt by Irish loss in NCAA's 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Staff Reporter 
Despite the fact that the Domers never got the chance to do Dallas, four enterprising Notre Dame students still believe that the memory of the 1985-86 Irish basketball team lives on. 
"Domers Do Dallas" t-shirts are still being 56Jid as keepsakes of the team's attempted efforts to make it to Dallas for the Final Four, said John Gibbs, the idea's founder. 
"I was doodling one day in my corporate strategy class, and the idea came to me. I designed the shirt and got the investors," said Gibbs. 

The design of the shirt is a caricature of the basketball team, and is printed in seven colors on a yellow background. The original cost of the shirt was $8.00, but is now being sold at a reduced price, according to Gibbs. 
The other investors include Gibbs' younger brother Mark, and seniors Tim Hanlon and Mike Bolger. Each invested $520 in the 
-~--­

Dame as a student in January if his progress allows, according to Richard Hurley.  1 I  
He said Kevin's reenrollment at  
Notre Dame depends on his  
physical and congitive recovery.  
"We have a goal of getting the  
major physical problems out of the  
way over the spring and summer.  
Perhaps in the fall he'll enroll in a  
couple of classes at a local college,"  
he said.  
"If all goes well, hopefully he can  
return (to Notre Dame) in January  
of next year," he said.  
"I don't want to come back until  
I'm ready, but I want to come  
back," said Hurley.  
Richard Hurley said the physical  
work necessary includes a muscle  
transplant on the stump. of Hurley's  
leg that was partially amputated as  
a result of the il_!,juries incurred in  
the accident, shoulder. ooerations and  
digestive system work to enable his  
stomach to operate properly.  
Hurley's return, however, largely  
hinges on his cognitive rehabilita­ 
tion, according to his father.  
Although Hurley's long-term  
memory is "incredible," his  
memory of the events between  
April and September 1985 are  
"hazy" said Richard Hurley.  
"His short-term memory is im­ 
proving though," he said. "He  
recognized quite a few kids this  
weekend. It amazed us."  
Hurley's former roommate Kent  
Laber said students should con­ 
tinue to sent Hurley letters, "even if  
you don't know him."  
"Kevin says to keep sending let­ 
ter. He says their great," said  
Laber.  
Healy agreed. "His (Hurley's)  
spirits are high, but you have to  
realize how demanding emo­ 
tionally this is," said Healy.  
"He's come a long way, but he's  
got a long way to go and Kevin's  
the first at admit this," he said.  
Citing the importance of  
Hurley's "spirits," Healy said, "this  
is where the letters come in."  
"It's been great getting all the let­ 
ters," said Hurley ·  

By CLIFF STEVENS 
Copy Editor 
"It's great, great, great being back to visit, and I can't wait to be back as a · student," said Kevin Hurley yesterday after returning to Notre Dame for the first time since his accident last fall. 
Hurley's weekend visit included meeting students and ad­ministrators, touring the campus, attending a Mass at Sacred Heart Church and taking in several An Tostal events. 
Hurley was greeted at the Michiana Regional airport Friday night by a group that included Vice Prisident of Student Affiars Father David Tyson, Assistant Vice Presi­dent of Student Affiars Sister Jean Lenz and Father Eugene Gorski, rector of Howard Hall, Hurley's former on-campus residence. 
Hurley and his parents later met with University President Father 
Theodore  Hesburgh  and  Notre  
Dame  head  football  coach Lou  
Holtz.  

On Saturday, Hurley attended the An T ostal picnic at Stepan center and the Blue-Gold game with former Student Body President Bill Healy. After a campus tour with Healy and a ride in Hesburgh's limousine, Hurley ate at South Din­ing Hall with Healy and Freshman Year of Studies dean Emil Hoff­man. 
Yesterday, Hurley attended a Mass dedicated to him at Sacred Heart Church, took part in a Howard Hall photo session and had dinner at Hofman's home. 
Hurley said there was "definitely a lot of enthusiasm" about his visit 
go home," said Richard Hurley, Kevin's father. 
Gorski said Howard residents ex­tended "a very warm" reception to Hurley's visit. "There was pleasure in seeing his remarkable improve­ment," he said. 
Hurley will return to his home town, Dover, Massachusetts today. Hurley may return to Notre 

venture, and  none  has  made any  
profit, said Gibbs.  
"We've broken  even  -almost,"  

Gibbs said, confessing that any profit the group might have turned was minimal. 
Hanlon explained this also, say­ing, "Once the team lost, the chance of profits went out the window." 
The shirts were ordered the week before what was to be the team's last game . The !>hirts were sold that night and the following 
see SHIRTS page 4 

I.U.'s Little 500 
1n Tosto/ was not the only collegiate event that took advantage of last weekend's warm weather. Indiana University'S little 500 bicycle race, and the many parties that are associated with it at­tracted some Notre Dame students. This accident during the race took out four racers who did finish the race. 
The Observer Monday, April28, 1986-page 2 

Music videos can desensitize college students to violence, according to a survey conducted by a West Texas State University researcher. The study of 700 students found that after viewing music videos for a while, they were less able to perceive increasing levels of violence in the videos. Students also tend to excuse violence in videos by performers they like.-The Observer 
Cults recruit 10,000 cone8e students a year, according to John Crawford, an Arizona State University professor and authority on cults. The typical new recruit is between 18 and 24 years old, more intelligent than the average person and has usually experienced a recent personal problem. -The Observer 
. 

Star Wars research threatens academic research, and could turn the U.S. into a second-rate technological power, accor­ding to Don Reeder, a University of Wisconsin physicist whose published works are among the most cited in the country. Reeder says that only 28 cents of every federal research dollar now funds civilian research (down from 50 cents in 1980), while 72 cents is devoted to military research. "Other technological countries can and will be passing us by," he says.-The Observer 
~ 
Five RAs were fired by the University of Arizona for spray-painting graffiti in a study room that was scheduled to be re­painted the following day. The five RAs and two other students have been forbidden to live or set foot in any U .A. residence hall. The act was not premeditated, according to one RA. "We just wanted to have a little fun with the walls."-The Observer 
$25,000 per semester: That's what it's costing the University of Kansas to replace stolen dinnerware. Last semester $6,590 in silverware, $15,000 in china and $3,106 in glasses were "borrowed."-The Observer 
The joke was on James Malley when he won the student coun­cil presidential race at Brandon University. He had run on the joke platform of the Party Hardy Party with no intention of winning. According to the Canadien University Press, Malley resigned the next day. -The Observer 
Conan, the Barbarian otherwise known as Arnold Schwarzenegger, and "'CBS Morning News" co-anchor Maria Shriver were married Saturday at a star-studded wedding in Hyan­nis Port, Mass. The 30-year-old bride is the daughter of Eunice Kennedy Shriver and former ambassador and 1972 vice presiden­tial candidate Sargent Shriver. Among the notables at the wedding were actresses Grace Jones and Cathy Lee Crosby, singer Andy Williams, and television personalities Barbara Walters, Diane Sawyer and Tom Brokaw. -AP 



'Michigan in Moti~n' shows possible fate of yearbooks 
The end of the spring semester brings more than a weather change to the Notre Dame campus. This time of the school year lends itself to nostalgia. Freshmen look back to August when Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were much more imposing than they now seem. Seniors look back on four years as frequently as they look toward the future. 
The arrival of the yearbook crystalizes these emo­tions. The biggest cynic on campus can't help but be moved by a color picture of the lakes, a home football game or the omnipresent Golden Dome. The forgot­ten moments ofQctober or January are permanently preserved between the familiar hard covers. Student s 
flip through slowly, looking for friends, places and events which have shaped their lives. 
This discovery, prompted by the arrival of the Dome last week, occurred in hundreds of dorm rooms across campus. Yet such a time-tested tradition is changing on at least one college campus. College year­books are entering the age of video. 
"Michigan in Motion." a project of a group of University of Michigan students, is in its second year of existence. It is a video yearbook which attempts to capture life at the university. It seems to be an idea whose time has come. · 
Last year, "Michigan in Motion' was financially backed by Yearlook Enterprises of NorothCarolina. The company sold 150 tapes at $39.95 each. It lost about $4,000 on the project. 
The camera work was done by eight students. Marketing, sales, editing, oroduction, packaging and distribution were handled by Yearlook Enterprises. This year, "We're still working with them, but we're starting to do a lot ourselves," said Eric Capstick, president of the video yearbook. 
This year has seen some changes, besides the in­creased student control of the project and the increas­ed staff of approximately 45 students, according to Capstick. 
Capstick said he and his staff are focusing .on diver­sity. "We're trying to get something everyone can relate to," said Capstick. "We think this year's tape will be a bit more accurate as far as it portrays the university," he said. 
The personal creativity of those involved in the pro­ject also will be a part of the finished project, accor­ding to Capstick, a film and video/history double ma­jor. For instance, Capstick said he and his staff will include free association in the video. Students were randomly asked to respond to a word. These responses will be edited together and will run throughout the finished product. 
"We cover so many events . . . we could do a news . show each night," said Capstick. "Michigan in Mo­tion" cameramen go on "shoots" every day, sometimes 

Frank Lipo 
Executive News Editor 

up to three in one day, said Capstick. Not all the shoots are long, but all that filming means much videotape, much editing and a great time commit­ment. 
The project has taken a step toward financial stability and independence this year with a new five­year agreement with Yearlook Enterprises. Capstick said the goal is to make the project a Michigan-based one, but for now the ties with Yearlook allow "Michigan in Motion" to pursue other funding with the assurance the project will remain solvent. 
"The administration has been supportive. It hasn't tried to intervene at all," said Capstick, stressing the project is "completely independent from the universi­ty" and maintains "complete editorial control." 
"A lot of universities ·are starting to do video year­books now," said Capstick. The trend toward satura­tion of the video-cassette recorder market means that more and more students will have access to this machinery. 
There will always be student interest in a yearbook. But the Dome staff of the future might just have to make room in its offices for the new kid on the block ­the yearvideo. 

Of Interest 
"Fool for Love," a play by Sam Shepard, will be presented tonight and'tomorrow night at 8 in Washington Hall's Lab Theatre. Admission is free. -The Observer 
City planning from a philosopher's perspective will be the topic of a lecture by Stephen Watson, assistant professor of philosophy, today at 4 in Notre Dame's Haggar Hall auditorium. Watson's presentation is part of the Student Lecture Series spon­sored by the School of Architecture as a forum for comtemporary architectural issues.-The Observer 

Weather 
The party is over as this weekend's sunny weather comes to an end. Rain and thunderstorms are expected today. -AP 



=--Ihe Observer 
! 
The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in
~iff '~ 

the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for
'~ 

any delays or production errors. The 
situation will be amended as soon as ,.., possible. 
lb~ Obscrv~r ( l 'SPS ~99 l--.000) is publi~hec.l \1oruby through 1-'ric.lay exl·epl dunn~ exam and vacation pcnods lb~ Obwrv~r i~ published h) the ~IUdent~ oflhe l mve·r~il\ of Notte !>arne and Saini \1arfs College Subsniption~ may be pun·ha!ot'd tor S~~~ pc~ year (SlOper Jemestcr) by writmg lbr Obwrv~r. Po Box Q. -.:oue l>;~me. lndt;~na -f6~~6 
'I'M Observ~r i~ a member of The Assocl.atrd P~M. All reprodunum ril(hl~ are 
rcv<vrd 

Thanks toyou... 
forALLOFUS
itworks... 
Unlliad\Vay 


A Religious Co~munity of Men in the... 
HEALTH CARE MINISiqKY Committed to Christ... 

Through a life of fraternal love, prayer and service to the sick, poor, dying and unwanted. 
• 
ADMINISTRA fiON • NURSING • CLERICAL • fECHNICAL 

• 
PASTORAL CARE • X-RAY • LABORATORY • ENGINEERING & MAINTENANCE • MECHANICAL WORK • PUBLIC RELA­TIONS • PHARMACY • COMMUNITY HEALTH. ETC. 


••••••••• WRITE FOR INFORMAliON •••••••• A29 
Vocation Director, Alexian Brothers 600 Alexian Way, Elk Grove Village, ll 60007 
Name____________________________________ 
Address__ 

City. -------StJte_______.Zip 
Age______Edut Jtion -----~Te_1N..;.;o:.___ •
• 

"A HEALING PRESENCE" =••••••••••••••••••n•••••••••••••n•••••n••••••••: 
HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTERS: Elk Cmw Villdge, ILL 1 EiiLalwth. N.l.'~l. Lotm, Mo.-'San lo'l', C<.~IJS,~n.ll MI., Tt•nn. Mdwauk£'e, Wise. Brc,lht•h \\orklll~ Ill lht· ,\\t,,torh. Ill tht' Phdtpptlll'' 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------, Monday, April28, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 


British tourist shot at holy site; scaring visitors possible motive 

No boo for Lou 
Lou Holtz received a warm welcome in his first Notre Dame pep rally last Friday. The rally was for the 56th Annual Blue-Gold 
a doUar left so 

PARTY 

IT'S THE COOLEST HEAT YOU'LL EVER FEEL. 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -A 28-year-old British tourist was shot dead yester­day outside a Christian holy site in Jerusalem's Arab sector, and police said the attack may have been the act of terrorists. 
Jerusalem police spokesman Rafi Levi told reporters the man was shot once in the back of the head with a small caliber pistol. 
It was the third shooting of a tourist in six weeks in East Jerusalem and raised concern that attackers could be aiming their guns at travelers to frighten off visitors to Israel. The two earlier victims survived. 
Police sources, who insisted on anonymity, said they were in­vestigating whether the attack was meant as retaliation for Britain's allowing U.S. planes to take off from British soil two weeks ago to bomb Libya. 
The victim carried papers in­dicating he was a British citizen, police said, declining to give his identity immediately. Isra¢1 Radio identified him as Paul Appleby of Bristol, England. 
He was shot in an isolated alleyway just outside the gate of the Garden Tomb shrine, which is ad­ministered by a British-based foun­dation. 
Protestants believe the hilltop is where Jesus was crucified and buried. Catholics, Greek Orthodox and most other Christian groups believe the Church of the Holy Sepulchre inside the Old City is the site of the crucifixion and burial. 
The Garden Tomb shrine borders on the Old City, which was crowd­ed yesterday with those observing the eight-day Jewish Passover com­memorating the biblical Israelites' escape from Egyptian bondage. 
The Rev. William White of Dorset, England, a chaplain at the site, said a woman heard a shot ring out around 12:.50 p.m. and he ran to call the police. 
Military sources said last week they were trying to uncover four terror gangs operating out of Jerusalem's Old City and the oc­cupied West Bank. 
The sources said the gangs were 
responsible for recent attacks in 
and around Jerusalem, including 
the March 2 assassination of the 
Israeli-appointed mayor of Nablus, 
Zafer al-Masri. 

As news of the shooting broke, Tourism Minister Avraham Sharir noted that recent attacks have reduced tourism to Israel by 40 per­cent since January. 
The loss has cost the troubled Israeli economy $30 million in lost revenues, Sharir said, urging American Jewish leaders "not to surrender to terrorism and to come visit Israel now." 
game on Saturday. 


China leads in economic growth 
• 
• Happy Birthday Susan Clancy II! 
ternational  Monetary  Fund  said  
yesterday.  
In  its  semi-annual  "World  
Economic  Outlook,"  the  IMF  

Love, Meghan, Jennifer, and Mary 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Economic growth in China, in marked con­trast to conditions in other com­munist nations, has exceeded the
Yes, you do have 
expectations of its leaders, the In­
reported that Chinese production 
grew by 12 percent in 1985, more than four times the world average of 2.9 percent. 
China's growth is expected to slow this year, however, as the communist government holds down incomes and imports, the study said. 
The IMF, in a wide-ranging assessment of world economic con­ditions, also said that in general terms, rich nations are growing richer and poor countries are becoming poorer. 
"The industrial countries appear now to have entered a period of sustained and better balanced growth," the fund's outlook said. 
The IMF said it sees the condi­tions in wealthier nations as being influenced this year and next by higher taxes and lower government spending in the United States and Canada. 

ITS BELOW' MIAMI. AND ABOVE THE LAW  
FlAJWviOJNT PICTURES PRESENTS  
A HAYWARD/HILL PRODUCTION BLUE CITY-JUDD NELSON-ALLY SHEEOY'  
EXECUTIVE PRODUCERS ROBERT KENNER ANDANTHONY )0\jE$ 
SCREENPLAY BY LUKAS HELLER&WALTER HILL BAS£D ON THE NOIEL BY  _.... _  
ROSS MACDONAlD PRODUCED BY WlLUAM HAYWARD AND WALTER HILL  -~­ 

R .•:·:~:::.:;-'".;:,... DIRECTED BY MICHELLE MANNING A PAAAMOUNT PICTURE :pt'; ~--­
....,. -·....... ..... _ ...... ---....... ~..........
-·-·--­

OPENS FRIDAY, MAY 2ND AT A THEATER NEAR YOU 

Attention Clubs and Halls 
Due to LaFortune Renovations, the Treasurer's Office is closing early. 
All check requests for 1985-86 funds MUST be received by 
MONDAY, APRIL 28 at 4pm 
in the Treasurer's Office 2nd floor LaFortune 



$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
The Department of Communications and Theater at St Mary's presents aND/SMC Theater production of 
choreographed by 
Jerome Robbins Musical Score comoosed by Leonard Bernstein 
Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim 
Book by Arthur Laurents May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College For information call the box Office at 284-4626 



!
l The Observer Monday, Apri128, 1986-page 4 
l 

Senate struggles with 1987 budget 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Sen. Pete Dornenici, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, rejected a plan 
yesterday  that  conservative  
senators  are  drafting  to  bring  a  
pending  $1  trillion  fiscal  1987  

budget more in line with what President Reagan wants. 
At the same time, Sen. Bob Packwood, R-Ore., chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said time is running out on the president's tax overhaul initiative. Packwood added that it is uncer­tain whether a majority of the panel will support his dramatic plan -no itemized deductions and a top personal rate of 25 percent -to revive the effort. 
"Can I get a majority of my committee to go along? I don't know because it means cutting off some of the favorite loopholes that, frankly, some of the very, very rich in this country utilize," Packwood said on NBC's "Meet the Press." 
The comments carne as the Senate prepared to ease into its se­cond full week of budget debate to­day. No votes were scheduled before tomorrow. 
So far, .the White House and the Senate have been at odds over a budget for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. Reag~n's budget proposals, submitted to Congress in February, were turned down while a package drafted by a bipartisan majority on the Senate Budget Committee has been rejected by the administra­tion. 
The committee plan, which the Senate is considering, includes, $18.7 billion tax increases and cuts the president's military spending re­quest by $25 billion to meet a re­quired $144 billion deficit target. 

Domenici, R-N.M., also appear­ing on the NBC program, said there is only one way to avoid stalemate and automatic spending cuts under a balanced-budget plan adopted last year: "There will have to be major compromise~ between the 
president  and  the  United  States  
Congress."  
Democratic  leaders  controlling  

the legislativeagenda in the House have said they will ·.vait to move un­til after the Senate completes ac­tion. 
The Republican leadership in the Senate is not pushing any specific changes in the budget pending in that chamber. 

Shirts 
continuedfrom page 1 
night, but sales slowed down 
following the Notre Dame -Arkan­
sas Little Rock game, according to 
Gibbs. 
The group's original idea had 

been to donate any profit to a 
charity. Because they did not repre­
sent a specific campus group or 
organization, however, the Student 
Activities board would not give 
them a permit to seU their shirts, 
said Hanlon. 
"We contacted some charities, 

but we couldn't work anything out 
with them. Then we contacted the 
Senior Formal and An tostal com­
mittees, but that didn't work out 
either," said Gibbs. 

Award 
continuedfrom page 1 
Bronze Medal for Commendable 
Service in 1975. 
As a member of an EPA commit­tee that studied the effect of pollu­tion on the environment, Mc­Comas' report influenced many in­dustrial companies to switch from burning oil to coal in order to meet government standards during the 1975 oil shortage. 
Others who received awards at the ceremony were President and Chairman of the Board of Hanson Engineers Inc., Leo Dondanville Jr., who graduated from Notre Dame in 1952, President and Chief Executive Officer of Anchor Glass Corp. Vincent Naimoli, who received a Notre Dame degree in 1959, and Vice President of I.B.M. Corp. Patrick Toole, a member of Notre Dame's Engineering Ad­visory Council. 
M.C. LOU HOLTZ *all proceeds go to 
World Hunger •May 2, 8-1am, ACC 
,...16'9,.........' sHair 

Styling 
531 N. Michigan St:, Phone 233-4957 
The group had competition from an organization calling themselves, "Students for Logan Center." From this group came the "Hoop Hysteria" t-shirts, sold as a benefit for a Logan Center resident. 
The group sold their shirts throughout the basketball season, and as the record of the team rose, sales of the t-shirts rose. 
Gibbs said the success of these t­shirts was competition for them, but there was no real problem, as the design of the two shirts was so different. 
He did, however, admit, "Well, yeah, some people had already bought a 'Destination D.allas' shirt," referring to the mess;age on 
the back  of the 'Hoop Hysteria'  
shirt.  
If the  shirts  don't  sell  out  to  

Notre Dame students, they will be 


L 

-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
~ 
• 


If so, your idea for 
• 


a business venture could win you up to $3.000. To Enter Be at an informational meetin to be held: 
Thursday, May 1st at3 p.m. 



es Heal 


RYDER 
rents trucks to move it yourself 
TrtMark of Northern Indiana 219-294·7231 6002-6·5710 
sold for a low price to elementary school students, or "as jokes, such as car wash rags," said Gibbs. 
The group is still selling their "Domers Do Dallas shirts, and those wishing to purchase one may contact any of the students involv­ed with the project. 
Both Gibbs and Hanlon said the group is just trying to break even and recoup their original invest­ment. The group has since designed and are marketing another shirt, as a tribute to Brother Ed Luther, rec­tor of Morrissey Hall, who is leav­ing the dorm to become the rector of Fisher Hall. 
From this sale, the group hopes to make up for any losses they may incur as a result of the slow sale of the "Domers Do Dallas" shirts. 

Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials. 
SOUTH BEND 
LOCATIONS  
1914 Miami St.  
2715 North Bendix Or.  289-6721  
277-3550  OR  
2627 South Main St  
232-6729  


~i~~~_()__ ______________________



i_Jlt 

M_on-da-y,_A_pn-·12-8,_19-86--p-ag_e_s 
I 


Band-aids ineffective in curing world hunger 
Band-Aid: Any temporary or superficial remedy or solution. A standard definition. Just last summer Band-Aid meant famine relief to Ethiopia, Sudan, and Chad. This sensation­alized campaign for famine relief was caused by the mass appeal to save millions of starving people, many of them children dying before the age ofsix. The media performed its neces­sary role, letting the public know about the crisis. This temporary appeal, however, in a 
way hurt the image of Africa rather than helped strengthen it for the rough road toward economic development. 
Catherine Ann Reynolds 
impact 
Perceiving a political or social issue only through the media and ads that portray a people as helpless leaves viewers feeling numbed or sometimes feeling useless to cru­cial world issues. It is difficult to internalize such harsh images of famine and unrest into our consciences. Unfortunately the image in CARE ads of bloated skin and knobbed bones of a child comes to mind. 
Instead of responding intelligently, the images make us respond sympathetically, ini­tially anyway. Then only after so long many people tend to stop thinking about an issue because the media does not update or provide the immediate or positive feedback to our sympathetic response. 
And in fact, many Americans have forgotten about the hunger crisis, as if last year's drought and present problems of resettle­ment or escalating civil wars in some sub­Saharan nations have ceased because we don't see it on the front pages anymore. But this year's famine is still a crucial issue. In Sudan and Ethiopia alone, 10 million are dying from hunger. 
So almost a year after the media's mass cam· paign we have been left with a distorted, empty image of sub-Saharan Africa. Worse, this image lessens the pride and dignity of_ Africans who are working hard to overcome a major crisis. Moreover, providing only !em­porary aid to a nation in natural and political crisis makes the crisis more devastating. Al­though the aid contributor feels better, it is like an unexperienced medical intern apply­ing a band-aid to a patient suffering deep burns. 
Short term solutions to a problem only cause more problems for those who are suffer­ing. 
We are not immediately suffering from major social and political internal friction in our country. However, we, as a politically in­fluential power, affect and are affected by a third world country's process of develop­ment. Unless we take the initiative to try and understand Africa as a people, we ignore a cru­cial global concern and leave harsh images to stagnate in our minds. 


Doones 
One way for us to look beyond the famine and have hope for Africa's people is to better understand Africa's ancient and vibrant culture. Intelligent investigation cannot harm us or the people seemingly different to our everyday life. Through learning more about the culture of Africa, we as Americans may realize how they affect our culture, especially in the art and music scene. This curiosity for African history, music and an alleviates the undignified and unfair representation of Africans and brings us closer to Africa. 
Here's a little cultural history. African cities have been developing since 3,000 years before Christ. Some kingdoms like Mali and Ghana have existed since 5,000 years before Christ. When African countries are con­sidered underdeveloped it is in terms of W es­tern values and political and economical systems. It is not because Africans could not successfully grow and continue S?fficiently as a strong culture. 
In fact, the first cities in Africa were trade centers with Greeks and Romans on its nor­thern coasts, when Europe did not have enough food. East Alexandria and Cairo were fertile lands and the core ofhighly-developed and technologically-advanced Egyptian civilization. Ancient cities north of present day Khartoum, Sudan, were like the pharanic cities of Egypt. Some kingdoms were so wealthy that gold literally draped from the African kings' mile-long caravans. The kingdom of Songhai on the west coast, 

known as the city of God, was as old as Egypt, with its break of bulk near the Niger River. Other cities like T i mbuktu were rich in crafts. It is approximated that from 500 B.C. to 1500 A.D., Africa experienced its own dynamic growth and change and formed its own culture. Thus, Africans' own sense of music and art i~ deep-rooted. 
Digging deeper into the African music we can discover its prevalence in Western culture since the early 20th century. The rhythms rooted in Africa's tribal culture are heard in much of American jazz, blues and , reggae. More recently, the blues and reggae influenced by African rhythms are part of the progressive music scene known as "World Beat" in San Francisco. 
More directly, though, is reggae's growing popularity in the United States. This soul­inspiring music from Jamaica bridges the feelings of Ethiopianism into American culture. Ethiopianism, as expressed d1rough reggae music, connects us at a Christian uni­versity through its use of Biblical passages in its lyrics. Such a biblical passage is Psalm 68:31, "Princes shall come out of Egypt; Et­hiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto 
God."  
Here  is  a  spiritual  element  of  African  
culture  that  exemplifies  how  strongly  
Africans  believe  in  redemption  through  

spiritual values. By better understanding their music and their beliefs, Africans become a little closer to the United States. 
lA/HATA tVONPER­RJL'3VRPRJSE! YOU,
GINNY/ 

BOY, ARe )f)(J 700, A 516HTFOR 8LON!'II3­\ 50Rf;&Ye3! /
\. 

'"1-28 
On a larger scale, the modern art movement beginning with Picasso's direct use of African symbolism and artifacts enlightened the West's art sense to pure form as beauty. Through his cubism, Picasso portrayed to the West how beauty is found in the pure and natural environment. Later these simple, pure and natural elements became influential toward the American minimalist art move­ment as well. 
In a lighter aspect of American clothes fas­hion, . African ethnographies have been extremely influential recently. Bold patterns of these simpler symbols and of the natural environment are highlighted by vibrant colors. Both reveal the liveliness of African culture. 
These more positive aspects of history, music and art in African culture provide a closer look at African people and a better un­derstanding of our ethnically-diverse American culture. From their history, we find a people cultivated in a different sense than we, but people who have influenced us just the same. 
Evidently the music and art portray a people that link their physical world to nature and to the soul. This link has cultivated and sustained a culture since its origins 5,000 years ago. Moreover, it is their art and music that will survive the present crisis. Thus as we consider the African development process, we should realize the necessity of integrating these positive aspects when trying to alleviate the crisis. 
This is not awareness week, but as students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, we need to be more aware of the larger global community. We need to be aware that Africa has an im­penetrable strength because of its deep­rooted culture, and we need to be further aware and reminded that the escalating toll of African deaths is partly because ofunsuccess­ful and temporary aid caused by our im­mediate, sympathetic reactions to the crisis, rather than intelligent considerations. 
As people of greater fortune, we can help initiate successful, long-term development projects. We luckily have the added fortune of education. Our liberal education is a key tool in the qevelopment, not just of Africa, but of our own culture. 


P.O. Box Q 
Society must recognize, fight problem of incest 
Dear Editor: 

l just ijnished watching "Something About Amelia,". a television movie dealing with incest. I was pleased to see that the movie drew a good-sized audience in my dorm; they were concerned women eager to be informed about this painful topic. I ex­pected not half the crowd. Such sensitive subjects are commonly ignored. 
Last semester I took a psycnotogy course that touched on the topic of incest. After class one day I discussed the topic of incest with another girl from class. "I can't believe it really happens," she said to me. "No one would do that to his own child," she con­tinued. Disbelief, unfortunately, is the posi­tion many people take. There is a refusal to accept reality. 
Very few people are informed about in­cest. To many, it is too horrifying a topic to discuss. People are repulsed by the thought; discovering the facts could destroy one's faith in mankind. 
Yet, we need to learn about incest. We cannot ignore it-it is literally all around us. Yes, victims of such abuse are even at Notre Dame. · It is admittedly difficult to realize that incest occurs in families similar to our own, even upper class, Catholic homes. However, it does occur. Ignorance will not make it disappear. Knowledge can help. 
Garry Trudeau 
In South Bend, as well as in many other 

cities, educational programs have been in­
stalled in the elementary and middle schools. 
These programs help inform the children 

about sexual crimes such as incest. They 
teach the children what to do if they are in 
this type of situation ind how they can help 
themselves. 
Incest victims feel guilty, afraid. Even years after the assaults have ceased, they cannot raise their self-esteem to a healthy level. They lack trust in others, afraid that they are left alone to deal with their feelings. Most of the time they deeply love the of­fender and are afraid they will lose that love. 
The effects from such assaults can last a lifetime. Women may feel they are meant for nothing more than a sex object for others to use. As children, their right to self-worth is cruelly stolen. Because of society's at­titudes about incest, they may lock away their secret forever, giving them no chance to recover emotionally. 
We need to change those attitudes. It is easily agreed that incest is wrong, a sickness. This fact alone does not help the victims. Such a subject kept in the darkwill only fester and grow. As long as we refuse to accept tne reality of incest, victims will continue to suf­fer. It is time we inform ourselves, speak out and begin to fight. "It" does not just happen to the other guy. Victims exist in friends, neighbors and loved ones. It touches us all. 
Michelle Tripeny Pasquerillu West 
8YGOUY, IT5
UH... 
JlJST5UPtf:R TO
CI-IIW5£S? 


Quote of the day 
Sli& W AGAIN, 
MRS. !<fJ)Ffjf?N!
I '\ 

"Nothing is particularly hard ifyou divide it into small jobs." 
HenryFord 
( 1863-1947) 

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief . .. , ............... Joe Murphy Busmess Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann




The Observer 
Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Controllt!lr . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239·5303 Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .......... James Carroll 
The Observer IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M.Culligan Sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .......... Drew Sandler polic1es of fhe administration of either mstitut1on. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor. ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manag~............. David Thornton and ob~tively as possible. Unsigned ed1tonals represent tne opinion of a majority of ~W$ Epitor ..................... Tripp Baltz Gr~phic ~rts M~n~ger ......... Mark Weimhoft • tne E«*IQ(itl Boa1d. Commentaries, letters and the tnsKte Cotumn present ttle Yiews of N•ws Ediror . ................. Mark Pankowski --..... ~ . their authors-:-cottlfftA . .spa~e 1s available to all members of the community and the free e)(press•on of vary1ng opinions on~campus. throogh letters. is encouraged. 
Founded NoMmber 3, 1968 

·.. 
------------------·--·----­
•.. 
..... " 
'~-" J._ 

1 .,.~ 
. -~-~ '··•· . .. ~·.... ­
<. 

. y._ .. ­

··' 
I 
" 
ii 
Tl 



Accent 
ean 
" 
I 


What to pack 
Caroline Gillespie 
features copy editor 
Barcelona, Spain -a city of sun­shine and beaches. At least that's what they thought. 
Karen and Sara stepped of the train at 10 p.m. They looked up a hotel in "Let's Go" and started to walk through the steets of Barcelona. They turned down a dark alley looking for the Diana Pension. Karen's bulging purse hung by two spaghetti straps at her side. 
"There it is," said Sara, "let's go." 
One tug and it was gone. Karen screamed, but few people even bothered to glance. It was a com­mon occurance in Barcelona. 
The next three days of their vaca­tion were spent in the American Consulate, the American Express office and the Barcelona polic sta­tion. Karen could have saved a lot of time time and money if she had one one simple thing: used a passport case. And Sara could have helped by not being so money­conscious and taking the nearest shelter from the dangerous Barcelona night. 
A passport case is little, in­
conspicuous, and can be worn 
under the clothing. Besides a 
passport, the case can hold monev, 
rail passes, credit cards, travelers 
checks and any other 'kiluabes 
which every traveler teeds for 
security. 
A certain amount of pre-trip preparation is necessary and ad­visable for every traveler. And, 
one of the most vital aspects of 
travel is money mAnagement. 
However, if don't have any mcney 
because it is stolen, you· will have 
difficulty surviving let · alone 
managing your money. 
A passport case is a necessity for security reaons. But before you have a passport case, you have to hae something to put in it. 

Most people favor travele rs checks over money because they are conve­nient and safe. American Express, Thomas Cook and Visa travelrs checks are a few brands. I used American Express checks and had no trouble using or cashing them anywhere in Europe. 
Another good investment is a 
credit card. Visa is taken just 
about everywhere in Europe. 
American Express is convenient becasue there are so many American Express offices throughout Europe. If you have a checking account in America and you have an American Express card, you can go to any American Express office and cash a check. Personally, I found that the best · way to handle money. Many peo­ple tried to bring all their money with them, but that becomes dif­ficult to handle. Plus, if you keep your ac~ount at home, your parents have easy access for those times 
when you're in a tight squeeze. 
Wh.ile you're running around 
handling your money situations, 
you might want to stop into a travel 
agency and look into rail passes, a youth hostel card and an interna­tional student card. Taking care of these details before going to Europe can make traveling smoother. 

An international student card will get you discounts with train tickets, at museums, shows and other entertainment and touris~ attrac­tions. 
After you've taken care of all these details, you might want to think about what you're going to bring with you on your travels. A conve­nient packing m~de is the backpack. Backpacks are easy to carry and have several pockets for organizing your equipment. They are easily stored in station lockers, are rugged enough to get abused and are nice as pillows when you're sleeping in train stations. The size of the pack is a personal preference, but small or medium­size are easier to maneuver. You can pack light, be comfortable and go to laundromats often to wash your clothes. Packs with stomach straps take some of the weight off your shoulders and save you a sore back at the end of a long day's travels. 
As for what to put in your pack, again that's pretty much your own decision but here are a few sugges­tions. Clothing is obviously a necessity unless you plan on spen­ding all of our vacation on the nude beeches in Greece. Try to find out the weather conditions before you travel somewhere. You11 be much hC'ppier if you pack the proper clothing. Other things which you might like to have are a camera, a journal, a walkman, cassettes, playing cards, a travel alarm, bat­teries, a voltage converter, sleeping bag (preferably a water-proof mummy sack), toiletries, books, a language dictionary, stationery, food for those extra-long train rides, toilet paper, maps, and last but not least, your passport case. 
One more important addition to your belongings is a travel guide. Some better brands are "Let's Go," published yearly by Harvard students who travel around Europe 


LISA YOUNG 
features copy editor 

Bombings, hijackings, kidnapp­ings, murders. These have become 
familiar scenes of world news reports as terrorist acts become dai­ly events. With the increase in ter­rorism comes a new fear: fear of 
leaving  American  soil.  Interna­ 
tional  travel,  both  an  Ameircan  
necessity  and  luxury,  is  being  
threatened.  

How safe is it to travel in Europe? According to Assistant Provost and 
researching the best places for students, "Fodor's Guide to Europe" and any of the Michelin guides. All contain entertainment guides to cities and can help with hotel information, restaurants, travel tips and sights to see. 
You'll most likely make every mistake possible on your first trip. But hang in there, everything will somehow work out no matter how many times you lose your passport. 

Just remember that traveling is one part luck and 99 parts common sense-don't leave home without it. 
-
San 

Director of Foreign Studie~ J..strbd• Charles, "It is still.~fe fo· travel in 
_.... . '' 
EuroJl, but you must be cautious. 
Charles, who oversees programs including London, lnnsbruck, Austria and Angers, France, says, 


Is travelinc
... 
"Terrorism has been an issue for 
the past five or six years. . . 
sporadically. I would say the pro­
blem has escalated in the past 
year." 

The recent terrorist activities have 
increased parental awareness of the 
security of the programs. "We 
have had parents calling with con­
cerns, but have not had any 
cancellations in any of our pro­
grams." 

Ron Schubert, owner of Seven Seas Travel, says, "People with reservations have called and ex­pressed concern, but we have not had one cancellation. Most people are planning trips for mid-May or later . . .hoping things will settle dawn by then." 
Schubert also says that the airlines VtaP. s~ecial promotions last week. "When it came down to it. ..the­dollars were quite important:" 
The Victor Emanuelle Monument stands in Rome, Italy. 
·-. 
Monaay, April28, 1986-page 6 -7 



How to travel around Europe 

KATHY MARTIN 
assistant features editor 
Modes of transportation 

Despite the recent upsurge of ter­rorism, there are still those graduating seniors or thousands of other students who wouldn't dream of giving up spending this summer traveling around Europe. For those who have never been abroad, the experience of foreign travel can be overwhelming. No one can tell you exactly how to plan the most effective or trouble-free vacation, but these are a few hints from those of us who spent an entire year stu­dying abroad through Notre Dame's foreign study program in lnnsbruck. 
College-age students usually have less money than)ldult tourists, but they also have more spirit of adven­ture to get to out-of-the-way places or to rough it in order to stretch out the money. Students have more mobility, too, with backpacks. But best of all, students under the age of 26 receive incredible dis­counts on rail passes, bus or plane fares, and youth hostel accom­modations. 

1M Obs#rv~rI Mary Jacoby 

Sebastion, in Spain, is a beautiful city, but beware ofpickpockets. 
~ the Continent safe? 
Schubert said that reservations to Greece and Italy have declined in the past year, as have the number of Americans on Mediterranean cruises. 
Cancellations due to increased ter­rorism have affected Saint Mary's summer programs in London and Rome. Says Director Anthony Black, "We have had four or five cancellations for the London pro­gram in the last week because parents didn't want the sutdents to go." He ~!so said that a few new students have signed up for the pro­gram. 
Charles offers a few suggestions that have been given to Notre Dame students presently studying abroad. 
"Each program director has knowledge of places which students should avoid. We are recommen­ding that our students do not travel in major centers --Paris, Rome, Athens. It is not very safe at this high profile time." 
London is not included on the list. "We suggest that the students do not gather in places where Americans gather such as McDonalds," says Charles. 
Professor Albert Wimmer prepares the students for the lnn­sbruck program.· His best advice for students' protection from ter­rorists: "Learn German so well that you will not be recognized as an American." Planning to travel abroad in May, Wimmer says he will speak no English on his trip. "If I do have to use English, I will speak with a British accent," Wim­mer said. 
Parents are expressing concern about travel in Europe and students 
• share some of their feelings. Con­cerning the present state of world For European trips involving ex­
tensive travel through more than 
one or two countries, the Eurail or 
Interrail passes are invaluable. A 
rail pass enables students to hop 
almost any train at any time to 
anywhere in most of the European 
countries. It is expecially helpful 
for the inexperienced traveler who 
might miss a few trains or decide to 
change plans to stay in one city a 
few days longer or the free-spirited 
type who might change direction 
altogether. 
The Eurail pass is available only in 
America from most travel agencies. 
I costs $290 for a one-month pass 
and $370 for a two-month pass, 
and it covers most of the countries 
in continental Europe, which 
doesn't include England, Ireland or 
Yugoslavia (which is on the rail 
path to Greece). A traveler can just 
step on a train in any of the valid 
countries and flash the pass at the 
conductor when he comes around 
to collect money and tickets. The 
Eurail . is available in most 
American travel agencies within 
three or four days. 
The lnterrail pass is the European version of the Eurail, and it in­cludes a few more countries, in­cluding the British Isles. It covers almost all rail travel in Europe ex­ceP.t f~~. the country in which it is bOught. The travler pays half-fare in that country only. The cost varies from country to country ac­cording to the exchange rate, but an average might be $175 to $185 for or.e month. Sounds like a better deal than the Eurail, huh? The one problem is that you are supposed to be a student in Europe for at least six months before you can buy one. 
Now, most of us Innsbruckers bought our passes after only four or five months there, so some train stations or travel agencies are le­nient, but others asked for proof of student residence there and checked entry dates on our visas. If you do go abroad without the Eurail pass, it might be worth a try to stop in a 
affairs, Michelle Trosset says, "I wouldn't go to Italy or Greece...I would go to Ireland or Wales or England, but I probably wouldn't go anywhere on the continent." 
"It bothers me, but given the op­portunity, I would go to Europe," said Karen Povinelli. · Sophomore Mar gee· Ellis has made plans to travel abroad this summer. "At this point, I'm planning on going but I am a little nervous. . .but we're not going to be in dangerous areas." Given the choice of return­ing to the U.S. from either Italy or Switzerland, she says, "I'm leaving from Switzerland because my dad doesn't want me to be near the Mediterranean." 
Terrorism is hindering AMerican travel plans, but with extra precau­tion and knowledge of unsafe areas, college students should be able to travel safely and enjoy El.Jr.ope. 
European travel agency or train station to try to buy this pass in­stead. 
The train system throughout cen­tral and northern Europe is ex­cellent, reliable and inexpensive for students. This includes Germany, Austria, Switerzerland, France Belgium, and the Netherlands as well as the Scandinavian countries (Sweden, Norway and Finland) and the British Isles. 
However, the train situation in southern Europe is not quite as pleasant. Italian, Spanish, Yugoslavian and Greek trains are consistently late or slow, and also filthy. It might be a good idea to check into bus routes in the south to avoid some of the trouble. The train routes in Spain and Greece are sparse, whereas buses might run more frequently and take more direct routes. In Italy, we just grit­ted our teeth and expected every train to run at least a· half-hour late. If you plan on traveling once in the Middle East, Isreal or Egypt, the onlY way is by bus. 
Of course, for the more financial­ly endowed or the more time­constriced traveler, the most direct route cross-continent is by plane. Student fares and deals from the American Exrpess travel agency are real bargains, though still more ex­pensive than the rail system. 
Biking is another alternative method of travel for short distances, like from one city to another within a specific country. It's especially popular in the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland and Scandinavia, and it's possible to rent a bike in any train station and return it to a train station in another city. Don't ex­pect a Schwinn 10-speed, but you'll be able to get by and see quite a bit of the countryside in the open air while getting some great exercise. 
Last but not least, there are the few, the advetursome, the poor, the brave who prefer to hitchhike across Europe. Hitchhicking in Europe is very different than in America. It is legal and relatively safe abroad, although it is not ever recommended for any female to hitchhike alone. There is an entire system of hints and guidlines for hitching, like carrying a clear sign indicating where you want to go and carrying only light luggage (and usually hiding it off the side of the road until you get a ride). Hit­
. ching in central Europe is only allowed on the main roads before a major entrance to the Autobahn. 
Travelers are warned over and over again about the dnager of pickpockets in the major European cities, and well they should be. Watch out for this on the trains and in your hotels, too. A I ways keep your passport, travle tickets, money or traveler checks, credit card, and any other valuable on your body, especially when yhou sleep. Cameras and Walkmans were stolen last year from 1uggage on trains even as we slept last year. 
Catbching 40 winks 
Once you've survived the initial harrowing adventures of y~ur first rail or bus trip across Europe, you'll be .ready for the next 
challenge, finding a place to stay. Youth hostels are the most popular for the more budgeted travelers. You can obtain a youth hostel card for $20 by writing to the Interna­tional Youth Hostel Association (most travel agencies or the Notre Dame Foreign Studies Program of­fice have the address). The card en­titles you to cheap rates for a room, usually ranging from $3 to $15 a night, depending on the season. The accommodations are not too plush, and the showers usually freezing, but breakfast is usually included and youth hostels provide a wonderful opportunity to met and exchange travel stories with other international student travelers. 
Other basic options are pensions and hotels. Pensions are like less expensive hotels, except that they are often rooms in private homes with breakfast included. Pensions can be just as inexpenisve as youth hostels in some countries, but there is no guarantee that they will be as clean or as luxurious as hotels. Ho tels in Europe can be expenisve, once again depending on the city. 
In England and Ireland, ask the Tourist Information office (there's one in every major European train station or airport) about Bed and Breakfasts. These are rooms in really private homes, and the families are usually very friendly. One woman even made me warm milk and put ahot water bottle in my bed in Ireland. 

For the more adventurous student who doesn't mind roughing it, or for those, like me, who run out of money, there is always the possibility of taking night trains over long distances. The seats on most trains pull out to make a bed, but plan on a cramped and bumpy ride. For about $7 to $15, you can rent a real bed (well, about as real as they get on trains) ina sleeping compartment for six people. If you're in a real bind, or want to catch a quick nap between travel connections, you can join the rest of the budgeted travelers on the train station benches and floor. In Venice, I spent a night listening to guitar and drinking wine on a train station floor with more than 100 other students, but some of the sta­tions are not quite as accom­modating. 
Last, but not least, if the weather is good, camping is an idea. Lightweight tents are easy to carry on backpacks. Be careful, though. Y pu can't just set up anywhere; you usually need to get eprmission from a farmer to camp on his land, and there are rules about where you can build a fire in the mountains. Most major European capitols have organized campgrounds with bathroom and water facilities for a small fee. Most even rent tents and/or beds in cabins. 
Evervone has to learn the ropes of international travel by trial and error; it's just part of the European experience. 
The biggest piece of advice is to be flexible with your itenerary. Leave yourself the free time in your schedule to change plans and direc­tions as you meet people or hear about out-of-the-way places. 
Bon voyage. 
The Observer Monday, April28, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Any Bengal Hooters who have not yet returned their ticket money must do so on Wednesday from 6:30a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. in the student managers' office in LaFortune. For more in­formation call Ed Kelly at 234-7083.-The Observer 
Trivia night returns for this semester's final edition of "Speaking of Sports," airing tomorrow night at 10 on WVFI AM­
64. Chuck Freeby returns for his final night of stumpers, joined 
by hosts Rudy Brandl and Frank Mastro.  The trivia  answer  
hotline is 239-6400. -The Observer  
•  

The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting on Thursday at 5 p.m. at the band tower on Green Field. You must be at least six-feet, two-inches in height. For more information call John Kennedy at 283-3407. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Thursday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs should be written on the forms provided at the office, and the name and phone number of the person submitting them must be included. -The Observer 

AP 
series at three games each. In other NHL action last night, the N. Y. Rangers took their series from the Washington Capitals by a 4-2 mark with 2-1 win. 
1ht• O,J.\ern·r '\orrt· I>Jna-oltiu· llll.Jinl <>II rhc rlunl tle~11r 111 I.Jic>rllllll "ludnll < •·nlcr .llll·pr' ll.t,,afinl Jlh •·r11'111l! Ire 1111 'I .1 111 11111 d 1 p 111 \lc ond.l\ lhrc•u~h Ind.!\ lhe(Jhst'rn•r ".11111 \l.1n '"ttl<<. lc><.llcd ••n IlK rturd tlcot•r ••I IIJ~).:Jr ( ullq~•· < nHn. .J<<l"fll' <l.l''ltinl' from I.! ~~~ p 111 1111111 ~ p 111 \l1111 ll.1\· rhuuJ.:h I ru..IJ\ I k.Jdhm· le~r 11< "\I d.l\ <l.lv•llinh I' ~ p 111 \II <l.l"lflnh lllll'l hl· pn·p.ud. nlht·r Ill pcr'<>llllr I" 111.1!1 ( h.lr).!l I' lll<clll' per f1\l· l fl.lf.ll




Classifieds 
hT" lT c.JJ\ 
LOST: Blue Kupperhimer blazer at 3 bedroom apartment, summer only. A speciallhanks to aliihe supporters
GUESS WHAT??!! SATURDAY WASCharity Ball 
Lewis SYR, I also found same night a Fully furnished, 10 min from NO, of SUICIDAL TENDENCIES Weds.
WHITEY'S B·DAY!!! AND YOU Blue Stafford Blazer. We might have !:>eautilut $300 mo 233 6298 (even­night. We couldn't have picked a bet­
NOTICES Charity Ball 
THOUGHT THE MUD PITS WERE mistaken each others. If this sounds ings) ter act; aI least we thought so. You all Charity Ball MESSY! HAPPY B·DAY WHITO!! 
familiar, please call Bryan at 1664. made it worth more than just an
TyplngAvlilllble LOVE, ALL THE LYONS CHICS WHO 217-4012 DIG GUYS LIKE YOU SO MUCH! 
'honorable mention'. Thanks for your support. REPO MANCHARITY BALL SUMMER.& BDRM HOME. 272-6306 

CHARITY BALL MISSING: The MUR BALL From Rock CHARITY BALL Tuesday Call Brian 288-5451 or stop Famous last words: "Don'l worry,
by 1303 Library No Questions Asked RASTAWEEK
he's just a guy ... he's not worth 
Valued more than life ilself A man's RASTAWEEK
anything." CP 
basketball is ~ sacred thing. Please RASTAWEEK
1976 PONTIAC · Aslre; 4 cyl; 4 spd;
return it. The life you save may be RASTAWEEK
Waf•• II I • TJIIIng FOR SALE 
AM/FM/Cass; Priced to sell at: $800;your own. 
272.-z? 

take a look!·-Tim: 288-5451 
RASTAWEEK SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $IS 
To WhoevefHas Assumed the tdentl· RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK
T~ AND CREDIT! Cliff no1es available PAN­ty of MICHELLE DUNN PLEASE call 277-8131 UORA·s BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 283->4011 and ask for Lisa. There's
MACINTOSH 400K EXTERNAL DRIVE more at stake I han you realize. 
$260.00 PAT 283-4255
WANTED 

GOVERNMI!NT HOMES from 11 (U APPlt. IMAGEWRITER, VERY GOOD .......,. "*delinquent tax property. CAl COND. WITH CABLE, MANUAL, CAR­Ask me no questions, I'll tell you no 1C)1.417-eooG ext. GH-1134 lor lnforme. RYING CASE $275 080. 7016 CAM· DOAD lies. I see the attraction, but you 
lion. SMC girt wants OC roommate for PUS OR 233-1299 EVES. Wanted! One GRAD and SAT. Night Thanks, roomie, tor the quick· want to know the s!?e? dinner ticket. Michelle 289......,.5 thinking, smooth-talking 
summer and/or fall. She's friendly 
FOR SALE: Like new GE steam iron innocence-faking, swift foot-kickingand outgoing. Call Suzette at 233·
TYPING· Fut, High-Quality. Call287· N/full ironing board and cover. $15. parent-entertaining of 
1257 . 5396 or leave message at 272-4837. 
Kro!ly 233-5284 evenings. one certain Thursday night at mid· Mark, Mark, Laura, Horse and JaneThanks. 
night! Ann : Thanks very much for a great
HAVE BIG FAMILY & NEED ALOT (10) OF COMM. TIX! WILL PAY! CALL What would I do without you? 
Job on lhat An Tostal Issue' We PAUL ZIMMER 277·3912! 
Mom says "Hi," by I he way ... could not have done any better. K.B .-..o.TYPE • 15 years exp. student & I need graduation tix. Will pay QOOD 78 lUlCK SKYHAWK. Clean, Love, Tell Them I'm Not Home 
taw papers, resumes, dissertations. MONEY. Please call Pat at 289-7340 loaded.272.a306 2n-5833. after 5:30p.m. Established Band, Into New Music ­
Commencement Tickets Needed.
SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, LOOking tor a Guitarist and Drummer
Kathi x5848 WELCOME TO MY FOG! Madhu Bob,
Adams High School. One-half mite FOR SALE · 2-bed loft, finished & for Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU Chris Bob, Manju Bob, and Mike Bob. 
from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two stained.
MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 

practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap­black vinyl~ and 2 d,.....,.. prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288· Call Sheila at 272-10811.
GOVERNMENT JOBS. S1U40 ND/SMC CHARITY BALL 
4655.
151.230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 805-887-SENIORS! '85 grad looking for rom­A family celebration of life
1 need only 2 COMMENCEMENT 8000 Ext. R-11341or current ftfdlrllliat. mate in NW Chicago area. Let's get Saturday, May 2 at I he ACC.
tickets together and save some BIG BUCKS! Get Involved now. 
-----···---·---·-···-· I will pay BIG BUCKS 
Cl AMIIIEDI A)R ,_ NEXT call Jim (312)699-7500
Call Mike at 277·1 067
FORSALE4COMMENCEMENTTIXS WENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY (1$).
,..•n•to DAY WLL U ~ NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FORCIPftD UlmL 2 ft.IL DAILY. 
USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P.O.

CALL BRENT, 2n-o417, EVES. 
ooooooooooooooouoooo••••••••' •••••·•·•• '•••-•••••oonoooooooo.t, 

BEFORE 10. BOX 964 NO, IN 46556 B4 05/07/86 
JUNIOR ARTS AND LETTERS MA· MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM· JORS GRADUATION is coming and we're MER 1 TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call 
CAREER PANEL. TONIGHT. 7:00p.m. history! ELECTRICITY is graduating 272-8280 weekends, 272-91111
LOST/FOUND I 

NEED TIX FOR COMMENCEMENT, 
will pay BIG $S. Call Steve at 277-124 HAYES HEALY so all you DJs, pseudo-DJs, and weekdays.
NEED BEER MONEY? I NEED GRAD All WELCOME aspiring DJs take notice. All of our

LOST~ KEY CHAIN with yellow 0485, evenings. TIX! BILL 277-5817 excellent professional sound equip·"Grace Hail' tag at party on Colfax St. 
menl must go. Items not already sold or on campus. Without them I can't 
I need graduation lix. Will pay QOOD include 1 Technics SL-1200 turntable, 
open my room, mailbox, car, or Van is a "nussance" to our society.

MONEY. PLEASE CALL Pat al 289-1 Crown D-150 A power amp, 1 GLI .
house. Please help me by calling 283-ACT NOW! DISKETETTES Bulk 5·11"' BEWARE!!!
73-'0 after 5:30p.m. PMX 700 preamp/mh,er, 1 Cabbage
3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. DS/DD. 49 cents each. Lots of 50. JUNIOR FINANCE MAJORS L.ardner. REWARD. Thanks. These are not seconds. MONEY CAREER PANEL. TONIGHT. 7:00p.m. Case coffin, 2 Yamaha S4115H 
speakers, speaker cords & patch
BACK GUARANTEE No questions 124 HAYES HEALY 
0-~.E. NEEDED IMMEDIATELY TO H cables. Great prices. Call Frank 1743
asked. Call MEl, HI00~-3478, 9·9 • ALL WELCOME. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . -. .
~ART OF PLANNIHQ FOR RELIGIOUS or Sieve 2215
LOST: Blue and gold Pony sweat EST M-F, 1().6 Sat. Offer expires
UUCATlONAL WING OF I YEAR OLD jacket at siam-dunk contest. No. 30 5129186. LOFTS LOFTS LOFTS!!!!! TWO SMC
HIGH EHeRQY SOUTHERN PARISH. on the tag. Would appreciate If LOFTS FOR SALE! CHEAP!!!! CALL
ITRDHG ROOTS Ill A.C.I.A.., R.CJ.C.,
returned. Contact Jeff at 3251 or RC.WW. MOMANDDAD 284-4401. Thanks for coming-Jy
3252. CONTACT: SEARCH co...,..., HOLY FA-.Y CATHOliC CO.. 
PAUL: If WE ever tie you up it won't
llllJNrTY, P.O. BOX 130, c.t E....._ 
TICKETS be to mousse your hair! GRAPES toIIIC 27012. 
PREGNANT? CONSIDER ADOPTION. 
LOST-two notebOOks and an you! HAPPY 21st! Love, Badin p.s.
JUNIOR ARTS AND LETTERS MA· LOVING PROFESSIONAL CATHOLIC 
Engineering Materials book from JORS sorry it's late (ask us why)
IllS lob of hard. cold cash $1$1$ lor COUPLE CAN PROVIDE A BRIIGHT
South Dining Hall on Thursday, April FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TtXS CAREER PANEL TONIGHT. 7:00 p.m. 
'f04I elllrl gradualion lickM(s) leeW FUTURE FOR YOUR CHILD. CALL
17. PleaM return tMm to the dining lEST OFFER 211-8417 8411 PM 124 HAYES HEALY. ALL WELCOME. 
!Neg. for John 81231-7278. COLLECT (217) 367-3379 AFTERhall -It wtll t•1M ~tours to recopy 
7:00pm.
aft the nota. 11 didn't really want ................................ There once was a auy named Dave anyone to ... IN teat I nearly t~,led He thOught he made all the girts rave 
Need Graduation Tix Desperately!!! 

e1t:":!"'••.p!Mee retuM II so cal' But after their reaction from aH he
WILL PAY ANY PRICE!!! John 4057

redeem myaeff on ftnete.) gave 
~

FOR RENT .... . . . .... . .................. . JU~ Ffi!MNCE MAJORS He might as well live In a cave . NOTICE 
LOST: SILVE.. RING (ADJUSTABLE), CAREEft JlANEL TONIQHT. 7:08 ,...._ One night with a girl in bed lWO HEARTS DESIGN. REWARD. 124 HAYES HEALY. All WELCOME. He said he's comparable with Mr. Ed Prof. Ward Is ao lotlaer _,. llftl 
FURNISHEL HOt .SES CLOSE TO NO
CALL CAROLYN, ~19. PERSONALS But when under the sheet she stuck
FOA NEXT SL"HOOL YEAR 2811311 NOTICE
........ ····· .........·......... . her head 
She saw that there's a difference 4 & 5 BEDROOM HSES FOR MNT, OM NOU8I: C01.D 8EER & ~­SENIOR AMST MAJORS (aka AM­between what ie and what is said. 
BLOCK ~ 5 HOUSES (3 ~"l ... CAMY OUT TO aA.M. U.l. at N.. t STUDS II) DON'T FORGET THE PAR· .,. ............................. . MO.~-Ga30AJ34-I. M..OCK 80VfttOP~Y ..._ TY OH 1\I!SOAV, 2i APR JfROM 5-a 
.,_... _ 

AT n.IATU CflltEEK CLUilHOUeE. 
To the De&utifut Yount ~ f WtW!Itte<iH<-u•• fa summer or ne11t yur, 1"iftf. Nurvy? Cal YELLOW SUBMARINE Ill All AMe..ICAN !EER, FOOD, FUN MIN1, l Mid you you couldn't gat ~ay wttf'l kl the JELLO on tn'Ursoay ... hi 
N. ol campus. $125/mo. 67~ 272-Htl(t; DeiMNy hours: 5pm-12am AND FRIENDS. PARTY -IT'S THE without an annual 8-Day smash. Hap· pour nose alrlgh., I'd like. to find out...
after 5 p.m. · Mondly-Th&ndlly; Spm-2am Fridlly; AMERICAN .SnJOtES~ WAYf py Birthday Babe!II0¥8 You Please call me al31il · -· 
3pnl-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday 

• •• • • •••••••••• ~ ••• &·-~ •• , 't~..... . •1•,••••, ••• , ....-•••••••••••••••. ··•·•···•···•..••o. ;· · 
...__·....~ ...,..:,. ~::..-:.: 
,..... , 




The Observer Monday, April28, 1986 -page 9 
Fans' optimism soars as Holtz takes ov·er 
By MARTY STRASEN but I'm not going to start peeling Assistant Sports Editor any oranges until I get to Florida." 
And while optimism was ob­Times have \.:Oanged. viously running rampant in the One short year and a coaching stands on Saturday, the players 
change ago, Gerry Faust was themselves have even more to look greeted by a handful of people in forward to. his final Blue-Gold game, a contest Case in point, junior quarter­which resulted in a 31-0 romp by back Steve Beuerlein. the Blue. But this is a new season. Faust observed practices last year The Lou Holtz era was set into mo­from high atop a moveable scaffold tion this past weekend, and all with a headset and a megaphone. movement in the Notre Dame foot­Beuerlein, meanwhile, had a disap­ball program appears to be forward pointing season at best, completing bound. only 50 percent of his passes. 
"We're looking forward to the In similar fashion, with Holtz season and I'm excited about each seated in the upper level of the and every one of these players," press box during the opening half said the new Irish football coach, of Saturday's game, Beuerlein was who concluded spring workouts struggling. But Holtz is known for with his first Blue-Gold game on his willingness to get down on the Saturday. "The good Lord put our field with his players and eyes on the front of our heads in­demonstrate the way he wants stead of on the back. That's so we things done. Despite a resolution can see where we're going instead to watch the Blue-Gold game from of where we've been." above, Holtz was not going to 
Yes, times have certainly chang­watch his No. I quarterback have a ed. Over 32,000 fans were on hand bad day. to open the Holtz chapter of Notre "I went down on the field in the Dame football with the Spring second half because I felt that he Classic, which saw the Gold squad needed some support," Holtz said. come out on top by a 24-17 score. "I felt it was important for Steve to And while optimism will not win have a good showing in the Blue­football games, it is a welcome feel­Gold game and he wasn't playing ing after five years frustration. up to his potential in the first half. 
"Lou Holtz is a great individual," The Steve Beuerlein you saw in the says Tom Laughran, a loyal fan second half was the Steve Beuerlein who has followed the Irish through I've seen all spring." 
Beuerlein replaced his two first­triumph and turmoil since 1920. 
half interceptions with a pair of"He has motivated these players second-half touchdown passes toand is going to turn things around. 
Milt Jackson and Reggie Ward.
They're going to be talking about And Holtz has made an impact.
Lou Holtz when they talk about the "Last year wasn't a positive ex­greats like Rockne and Leahy. I 
perience for me," said Beuerlein. think we might even have a na­"Coach Holtz' confidence in me tional championship here soon." makes it enjoyable and, while it 
Greg Bell of the Buffalo Bills, a might not have shown today, it former tailback at Notre Dame, means a lot when your coach has was in town to be a part of Holtz' confidence in you." first weekend in the spotlight, But Holtz is keeping a low pro­which got under way with the Blue­file amidst all the optimism. Gold pep rally on Friday night. Rather than trying to live up to ex­Bell isn't making any predictions, pectations, he keeps his eye on the but would love to see his alma task at hand. mater back on the winning track. "All the hype and all the expecta­
"Lou Holtz knows the game of tions of the Notre Dame football football," he says. "I wish him a team is a tribute to the people who heck of a lot of success because I'm have gone to this school," he said. an alumnus now, and I want to see "We want to gain some respect us win a national championship. I around the country. That's our think he's going to do a good job, primarv objective." 
l'i'''''''''''''''''''''''''='========:======c=ra=ss====or·=·,·a7='=;,,,,,"",,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,il 
:I J Verden Studios :~l~t I!~ !~!i Spring Portraits Ill 
:=:=: :=:=: :=== :::::

Return
::::: ::::: A "I 29th :::: :::::
It· pr1 A-K I~~~l: ll~l ~~l~ April 30th L-T lf~~j 
t I May 1st U-Z ~;~; m~ !U! 1Oam -4pm IUli ~~j~~~i~ New Orleans Room, !!!!]!~ 

!=l=:=============:=:=:::=:::=:=:=::====:=:::========Lg:E.QJ~t=Y.ne.=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-l;.!
•••••a••••••••••••.o•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••t••• 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOW RElV'J'JNG FOil FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, aU deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Seuion) 
Office at 120 ND An 
~7/256-5716 
Call Aaytime 

Ken 


Keseg:· tmodags. 
SAVE S4Q SAVE S2Q 
ON EXTENDED­ON CLEAR DAILY­WEAR CONTACTS.t WEAR CONTACTS.t 
Eye examination extra. Available by 
independent licensed optometrist. 
Otler gOOd at participating offices only Some restrictions apply. tOll regular price o1 replacement lenses. 
CUT EVEN MORE WITH THESE SPRI~ SALE COUPONS. 25%-0FF1SAVEss.oo isO%-OFFTSAVESS.oo 
CONTACT LENS 1 BIFOCALS 1 TINTING 1 LIFELENS® PLUS SUPPLIES I This coupon good for $5.00 I With purchase of a com· I LIMITED Choose from our entire Ioff the regular charge 1plate pair of prescription I W'ARRANTY 
. for glass or plastic-lens eyeglasseswithplasticlens-I " 
sele~tlon of conta~t lens I bifocals. I es. Coupon good for a Protect your lenses with our 
solut1ons and care kits. I y I I'd t' t · 1 t h · t t d uv
OFFER EXPIRES MAY 10 1986 OFFER EXPIRES MA 10, 1986 so I 1n 1n any co1or. sera c -res1s an an 
· I I OFFER EXPIRES MAY 10, 1986l coating.Lifelens® Plus limit­ed warranty guarantees yourI 1lenses against scratching for 1 I the life of your prescription. OFFER EXPIRI:S MAY 10, 1986 
I I 


THE SCIENCE OF BETTER VISION. THE ART OF LOOKING GOOD. 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 UniversHy Park Mall 277·8682 McKinley Town &Country 256-1864 Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012 Niles, 1012 Main Street, 684·8008 
--r------­
1 
The Observer 

I 
I 
Monday, April28, 1986-page 10 




Spring 
continued/rom page 12 
Beuerlein found the groove early in the third period, though, when he found split end Milt Jackson on a well-timed 44-yard scoring strike to complete an 11 play, 80-yard drive that cut the Gold lead to 17-9. Later in the game, Beuerlein drove his team 83 yards for a touchdown, the score coming 17 yards out on a sensational diving grab by flanker Reggie Ward. 
But the Blue comeback was too late to catch the Gold, who by the time of the last Blue score already had racked up 24 points behind the running of Offensive MVP Brown and tailback Mark Green. 
The freshman Green was the most successful back on a day when neither team could muster more than 60 net yards. Green's 42 yards on 10 carries easily top~ed fullback Tom Monahan's 20 yards to lead all Gold rushers, and was more than the Blue's total team net of 39 yards. 
Brown, meanwhile, was far and away the most exciting player in the game. His 52-yard return of junior Dan Sorenson's punt set up Carney's field goal, and his sensa­tional kick-off returns of 26 and 32 yards were tarnished only by his fumbling of the ball. Brown never did see teammate Corny Southall 

Are you feeling unsure, confused, conflicted, or desiring more information about your own sexual identity? then 
EXPLORING SEXUAL 
IDENTITY DEVELOPMENT 
MAYBE THE WORKSHOP FOR YOU. 
Please join us TONIGHT in rm. 300 of the Student Health Center at 6:30-8:00. All are welcomed. 
Counseling and Psychological Services 
(Soon to be University Counseling Center) For more info., call Alicia or Nancy 
(239-7336) 
The Observer 
Is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant 
Production 


Manager 
• 
Salaried Position 

• 
Duties Include: super­vision, hiring, and training 


of layout persone11  
• Previous  design  and  
layout  experience  Is  

preferred 
If Interested contact Chris Bowler ot The Observer (239-5303) by 

eventually come up the second fum­ble. He was lying semi-conscious from the ringing hit administered by Blue walk-on cornerback Marc Gleason that jarred the ball loose. 
Fortunately for the Gold, this hit came after the first play of the se­cond half when Brown was needed for a little razzle-dazzle. The 6-0, 192-pounder responded to the call by taking a flea-flicker pitch from split end Alvin Miller, who had caught a five-yard pass from quarterback Terry Andrysiak, 64 yards down the right sideline for six points. The pass was the high point of the day for Andrysiak (2-of-6, 11 yards), who directed only five drives while splitting time with Belles for the Gold. 



Oreo 
continuedfrom page 12 
semifinals last year, the quarter­finals the year before and made it to the final sixteen when she was a freshman, had only one concluding 
sentiment about the game.  
"They  played  a  really  good  
game," she said of the Oreo.  "But  
we'll be back next year."  

To reach the championship game, Revenge of the Quixotic Quint dominated the Almosts 21­
10. In the other semifinal game, We Weren't Cheerleaders fell to Double DP.cker Oreo Cookie, 8-21. 
The Lee's BBQ Roundhouse 
Much More 
Fun Bunch Finale 4/25 BK9 6:00 l
--=-----!...--J Fun Bunch Finale
Let's Go Crazy 
4/23 ST6 6:15 
Let's Go Crazy 
Port·A-Ptt 
Tequili! White _u_gh_tn_in_g____, Tequila While 

4/23 BK9 5:00  Lightning  
Tofu Chaka Khan  4/25 BK10 6:00  
Unidentified  

4/26 ST1 6:00 
4/27 ST1 3:00 Manhood 4/25 BK10 5:00
Champion 
Much More Manhood 
4126 
ST1 5:00 
Leone's Stallions 
The Lee's BBQ Roundhouse 
WBBS with Ed
Smieciak 
Much More Manhood 4/23 ST1 6:15 
Keenan Inmates 1 
4 Fags and 
aZambie I 4/23 BK 10 5:00 

The Lee's BBQ
Leone's Stallions
Grace Defenders 

Roundhouse 
4/23 ST1 5:00 
Leone's Stallions 

4/23 BK10 6:15 
Shysters
Leone's Stallions 

Source: Sports Department Observer Graphic 
WBBS with Ed Smieciak 
Mr. Coffey and the The Embarassing Non·Dairy Creamers Stains 4/23 ST3 6:15 ..-......;:..-----1 The Embarassing 
4/25 BK9 5:00 Stains
~:..:..:..:..::;_______ 
BBQ 
continuedfrom page 12 
shot selection, especially by Sullivan. 
Yesterday, however, Sasse and Sullivan combined to shoot a dismal 4-of-18 from the field, and 0-of-2 from the line. John Mundo was a bright spot for the Stallions, netting five baskets and showing a fearlessness in taking the ball to the hoop. Composed of four sophomores and a junior, the Stallions can look to next year and another shot at the title. 

In Saturday's other semifinal game, Dolan's 7-of-14 shooting performance and 12 rebounds led Lee's past Much More Manhood, 21-16. Beuerlein added six buckets on twelve attempts from the field. 
Manhood  was  forced  to  play  
without  injured  center  Joel  
Williams,  but they received solid  

efforts from Rick Muench (5-of-9, 10 rebounds) and Tim Brown (4-of­11). 


1985THUNDERBIRD........WAS 9299..........NOW 8799 1985 COUGAR............WAS 9499.......... NOW 8999 1985FORD TEMPO..........WAS 7299.......... NOW 6899 1985 FORD MUSTANG.......WAS 7499.......... NOW 7199 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT/234-3712 
MON.-THURS 9:00AM-6:00PM, FRIDAY 9:00AM-7:00PM 
All Advertised Cars Subject To Prior Sale •Each car comes with the tierti 12-Month/12,000 Mileage Warranty. This tree limited Power Train Warranty covers both parts anc labor on your engine, transmission, drive • nalt and differential for an entire year. At~ lor Tull details. • Each car Is selected from the 'mest In the Hertz rental and lease 

CarSales 
fleet and has tis C'-Nn Service Maintenance Record which you can check belore you buy. •Most cars come Equipped with air conditioning. automatic transmission, power steering & brakes, radial tires. and AM radio. Warranty Is translerablf' 10 suc.:eedi•l~ The Reliable #1 retail consumer Maintenance r&eords not awalh•~le lor lease 
©1986 The Hertz Corporat1on¥ehicles. 
Moro pcoplo buy quality used cars from Hertz than from anyone else in rtw world! 

Queen's Castle & The Knights $5 student $8.50 
cut 
AWAY FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We a&.o featare the Royal Bronze Santaanlng Ceatel' See a tan In mlautee ••• Not Hoare 

From Ma1rtln''•l 
RASTAWEEK PRESENTS 


JAVA NIGHT 
Monday, April28 
8:00 pm at the esc 

a··············································· 
i12 Medium P~ZZA (any topping)I ! with extra cheese •
• i PLUS ! 

! Garlic Bread with cheese 
: Delivery Orders Only : 
(plus delivery and tax) 
·=·· • $5.25 .·.·.• • 
i Limited Delivery Area :
. . • ~ . : • 
. .~ --" . 
: ~""o\)•Ao"..,.,.. ;
. . 
: &~ ~ ~., : 
5 p.m. Friday, May 2. 

: 52929 a.a.31 rbth :
open jam session, bring instruments 

• 0...., ............. --..... ...__ • 
: 277-5880 :
..endless cup of coffee" 
Town andCountry 


: GoodforSundaysandMondays : 
IorberShop. Mllhawak 

: only .,ith coupon : 
OJ)W' 9-6, Mon.-sot. 







~c:tcJl.at~-----------------------------------M~on_d_a~y,_A~p-ri-12_8_,1_98~6---P~~~e~ll
Bloom County 
~T! 

Zeto 


G/ FELLASL2 


\ . Berke Breathed-The Far Side Gary Larson 



NtJI/ PtJtJCY. (J(} //WAY. 
u . 
Kevin Walsh 

ntE' 
OL' "l-ETS TELL THE FR€Si-41V1AN ITS TRAt:> NOT TO WASH OFF AN 
M:Jl>-PIT MUD ~TIL 1'1£ FlRST 6AME' OF THE" FOOT­SEASON " PLJN ,~H?

11\..,.::~­


"OK. sir, would you like inferno or non-inferno? ... Ha! Just kidding. It's all inferno, of co~rse -I just get a kick out of saying that. 
The Daily Cross"\V'ord 

ACROSS 1 Savory plants 6 O.T. name 
10 Joust 14 Trill-a· 
minute-show? 15 Ocean route 1p Concept 17-wave 18 Lacking 
interest 19 Criticize 
harshly 20 Aids to vision 23 House adjunct 24 Dispossess 25 Happen to 28 Allotment 31 Succulent 
plant 32 Jump 33 Clever fellow 36 Contacts 40 Call on 41 Show of 
displeasure 42 Winglike parts43 Grade 44 In some measure 46 Writer James 48 Mind 49 Certain games 55-monster 56 Asian legume 57 Haley book 59 Sci. course 60 Variety 61 Better qualified 62 Occupation 63 Snick and ­64 Laments 
DOWN 1 Radioactive 2 Poem 3 Change the 
decor 4 After-dinner 
drinks 5 Seasoned 6 Word of woe 7 Flit 8 Dye plant 9 Ancient 
Persian 

1986 Tnbune Medoa Servoces. Inc 
4/28/86
All Roghts Reserved 
10 Kind of paper 11 Does nothing 12 Smallest 
possible 13 Cap 21 Of first rank 22 Cardinal point 25 Redcap's 
burden 26 Robert­27 Lug 28 Harriet 
Beecher­29 Cart 30 Bow 32 Close up 33 Lose freshness 34 Romance lang. 35 Unspecified 

people 37 Ait 38 Mil. abbr. 47 -Heights 39 Things to wear 48 Hebrew letter 43 Governing bo~y 50 Invites 44 Liveliness 51 Copper or 45 Hooded garment nickel 46 Drupelets 52 River in Eng. 
53 Painted tinplate 
54 Gun 
55 Lass 
58 Upperclassmen: abbr. 


More Far Sides 

Gary Larson 

"Now just hold y"Jur horses, everyone .... Let's let it run for a minute or so and see if it gets any colder." 

I0-2.3 



Stuck paying summer rent? 
We'll pay your rent to store our stuff from May 20 until Aug. 23. For info. call Joe at 239-7471. 
' 

*************************$*** 


TO Kevin Hurley· Come back soon! 
Your friends at The Observer 
***************************** 

,, 
) 

II 

I 
~. 
I'. I '; 
I 
I' 
) 
---~-----------~~--""!!"--------...........,...........~~................~ 
Monday, April28, 1986-page 12



SRorts 
Lee's BBQs Leone's for Bookstore title, 21-15 
By MIKE CARDINALE Cunningham shot 5-of-9 from MVP award after the game, for Sports Writer the field, pulled down seven re­leading his team in scoring and re­bounds, and keyed Lee's transition bounds on the way to the cham­In a Bookstore tournament game. Yet, he felt it was the re­pionship. The Mr. Bookstore notable for the presence of five bounding work of Dolan (7 re­award, given to the player who best former varsity basketball players, bounds), Antonini (2) and Steve exhibits the spirit of Bookstore, one managed to make it all the Beuerlein (7) that keyed the victory. was given to the Stallions' AI Mar­
way, as the Jim Dolan-led Lee's "All of our big men are great tin. 
BBQ Roundhouse dominated the athletes, and their rebounding was Martin's defensive play and team 
boards and utilized a potent fast the key to victory," said Cunn­leadership were crucial in the 
break to top upstart Leone's ingham. "Plus, our man-to-man Stallions' drive to the champion­
Stallions by a 21-15 margin in defense worked really well. We ship game. He held the dangerous 
yesterday's Bookstore Basketball didn't play zone because we didn't Steve Beuerlein to only one field 
XV championship game. want to give (Bill) Sullivan the goal in six attempts, following an 
The Stallions, whose great baseline jumper he was hitting equally impressive performance on shooting and teamwork helped against the Fun Bunch." Saturday, when he limited last them to upset top-seeded Fun On the offenseive end, Dolan hit year's Tournament MVP Steve Bunch Finale in Saturday's 3-of-9 shots from the field, while Treacy to seven points. Martin, semifinal, could only manage to Antonini scored well above his however, feels that everyone on his convert 13-of-32 attempts from the tournament average, netting five team was worthy ot the award. field yesterday. . In addition, Lee's points on eight attempts from the "Anyone of our guys could have held a 23-11 edge in rebounding for field and converting his only free gotten it," said Martin. "Unfor­the game. Leone's was not able to throw opportunity. Mike tunately, none of our guys were hot duplicate its success against the Fun -Kovaleski chipped in three buckets today, and that's why we lost." Bunch zone when faced with the and shot 2-of-3 from the free throw The Stallions can take great pride tough man-to-man defense played line, including the game-winner. in their play on Saturday, however, by Lee's. Lee's seemed to be in an offensive as they pulled a major upset in top­
Lee's broke an early 4-4 tie with groove, in contrast to the ping Fun Bunch Finale, 21-19, in three consecutive fast-break furstrations that they felt against the most exciting game of the buckets, two of them by Bubba the zone played by Much More tourney. In that game, Bill Cunningham, to take a 7-4 lead, Manhood in Saturday's semifinal. Sullivan shot 9-of-18, including the and they never looked back. A "We're better against a man-to­game winner, while Gary Sasse Tom Antonini jump shot from the man," commented Cunningham. scored on 5-of-13 attempts. The The: Observc:r/ Jim Carroll top of the key gave Lee's an 11-7 "We're more used to running Stallions beat the zone of the Fun 
Jim Dolan of Lee's BBQ, at right, defends against Mike 
halftime advantage, and the lead around and picking up the open Bunch with crisp passing and good 
O'Grady ofLeone's Stallions in yesterday's Bookstore finals. Mike 
never dropped below four for the men." 
see BBQ, page 10 Cardinale details Lee's 21-15 victory in his story at left. 
rest of the c-ontest. Dolan received the Tournament 


Oreos defeat quints, 22-20, for women's title 
By .KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 

The Revenge ·or the Quixotic Quint will have to resume its elusive quest for a bookstore title next year, as Double Decker Oreo Cookie claimed the women's crown yesterday, 22-20. 
Oreo Cookie's Ann Curoe scored a goal off the rebound to open the game. The teams alternated baskets until the final few points of the first half, when Rochelle Holder hit a lay up to raise Oreo's lead to two points, 10-8. Revenge, with an off-balance shot from Regi Richter and two jumpers from Denise Basford, went into halftime with an 11-10 lead. 
In the second half, an abundance of fouls emphasized the importance of free throws for both teams. 
Each team, known for their physical play, was in the bonus. The bookstore rules, which have no provision for foul outs and have a nine-foul allowance before the bonus goes into effect, created a foul-filled tournament, and this game was no exception. The Quint finished with 22 fouls, while Oreo Cookie had 19. 
"I think the key thing in the game was the free throws," Revenge's Regi Richter said. "I must have missed about four just by myself. If we could have hit those, it would have been a different game." 
The numbers back Richter up. Revenge shot 1-of-9 from the line. Richter led the pack with an 0-of-4 performance. Kara England hit the Quint's lone free throw, which at the time put Revenge ahead, 19-18. 
Oreo Cookie also had its pro­blems at the line, although not to the extent of Revenge's. The Cookie finished with a 5-of-13 mark. One of those five, Rochelle Holder's shot after being fouled under her own basket on a breakaway, won the game for the Cookie. 

Cookie's captain Lisa Brown recognized the importance of fouls and free throws in the game, and altered Double Decker's game plan accordingly. 
"I told the team we couldn't foul them," she said. "I knew Colleen Donnelly and Denise Basford were excellent free throw shooters, so we didn't want to send them to the line." 
Qookie succeeded in its goal, as neither Donnelly nor Basford had the opportunity to improve Revenge's 1-of-9 clip. Brown also altered the Cookie's defense to off­set the Quint's strong baseline play. 
"We switched from a l-2-2 zone to a 2-3," she explained. "We wanted to front Regi to prevent her from scoring underneath. We knew they'd go for a baseline game, so we adopted the 2-3 to stop her and Denise. 
"It was a well-played game by both teams. I went in thinking that we were going to have trouble with Regi because of her strength. We had a definite advantage in that we had played against all of their players in interhall, while they were unfamiliar with our volleyball players (Zanette Bennett and Holder)." 
Holder and Brown each finished with six points to lead Oreo Cookie in the scoring department. Ann Curoe's five points • and nine re­bounds also contributed to the vic­tory. Cookie's zone held Richter to six points and shut down Denise Basford, limiting her to a 2-of-17 performance. "Luck was really on our side," Brown noted. "It was also a personal triumph for me." 
Brown made a strong recovery after contracting a nervous system disease, Guillian-Barre, that left her completely paralyzed less than a year ago. 
Oreo's post player, Zanettr Ben­nett, expressed her satisfaction with the tournament organization of commiSSioners Melissa Warnke and Mary Sheridan. 
"It was well-administered," she said. "Everything was set up just so. They did an excellent job. 
Richter, whose team lost in the 
see OREO, page 10 

Gold downs Blue, 24-17, in annual spring game 
By MARTY BURNS 

didn't do some of the things you This early lead proved to be the 
Assistant Sports Editor 

have to do, and we cannot be a difference in the end as Blue good football team with the quarterback Steve Beuerlein (15 The 32,000 fans that showed up mistakes we made today. Overall, completions on 29 attempts, 217 at sun-soaked Notre Dame Stadium however, the hitting was good and yards) overcame a horrendous first Saturday afternoon came to it was a pretty even contest. I think half to lead his team to a pair of witness a "reawakening." the players had some fun. second-half touchdowns which 
What they saw for most of the "There is really no way to evaluate made it close. 1986 Blue-Gold Spring game, a football team based on this game In fact, Beuerlein's poor first however, looked a lot like that 
alone. You don't get a real good half (4-of-12, 2 interceptions) wa which put them to sleep in last look because everybody had to play one of the reasons Holtz vacated year's 5-6 season. 
seven plays, and with only 10 of­his press box seat and joined the Yet while some poor passing, wild 
fensive lin~men healthy, you get Blue sideline at intermiss1on. Holtz fumbling and dropped exchanges mismatches. But this group has wanted to calm down the junior from center certainly marred this worked too hard not to be a com­
signal-caller, and encourage him to year's version of the annual spring petitive team next fall." show the same poise that had made classic, eventually won by the The fact that both teams on him Holtz's choice as No. 1 
Gold, 24-17, it did not discourage Saturday were competitive was one quarterback after the spring 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz. The thing that was different from last workout season. 
first-year mentor, who is the reason year, when the Blue maintained "He told me to relax," said 
for the regeneration of excitement tradition by overwhelming the 
Beuerlein of Holtz's halftime talk. Tbco·t~~cr-vu,•on~ among Notre Dame fans, never Gold. This time, the Gold capitaliz­"All spring I thought I had improv­
The Gold's Tim Brown (81) tries to avoid the arms of the Blue's promised it would be pretty -just ed on three Blue turnovers and the · ed on not rushing the football but I 
Chhs Kvochak in the Gold's 24-17 victory in Saturday's annual close. considerable talents of flanker-kick was forcing things today in the first 
Blue-Gold game. Marty Burns has complete details in his story at "I felt at the end of spring prac-return man Tim Brown to set up an half." 
right, while Marty Strasen profiles fan expectations in his story on tice we had accomplished an awful early 17-3 lead that it never relin­
see SPRING, page 10 poge9. lot," said Holtz. "But today we quished. 



