
:::!1!11......-------------~-----~---~---~---~ --­

ND practical jokes -page 5 
VOL XX, NO. 94 TIJESDA Y FEBRUARY 18, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tylenol stops production of capsules after death 
NEW BRUNSWICK, NJ. · The maker ofTylenol announced yester­day It will no longer produce over­the-counrer medication in capsules, nine days after cynadide­conuminated capsules ldUed a woman and more than three years after they ldUed seven people in Il­linois. 
"We feel the company can no longer guarantee the safety of these capsules," said James Burke, chair­man ofjohnson &Johnson. 
The announcement came as a team of Investigators went to Pen­nsylvania to trace the path of the Tylenol capsules taken by a woman who died in suburban New York City on Feb. 8. 
The 1982 cyanide-poisoning deaths of seven people in IUinols also were blamed on tainted Tylenol capsules. 
Burke urged people to switch to coated oval-shaped tablets known as caplets, and said Johnson &Johnson would replace free any capsules consumers or stores now possess. 
The company has "no plans to re-
see TYLENOL, page 4 
Editor's note: This Is the second ofa three-day series examining sex issues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Today's story deals with sexual attitudes and rules. Tomor­row's story will examine pregnancy-related issues at both schools. 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
Senior StaffReporter 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's share similar philosophies about 

Notre Dame cadet serves as model in Army scholarship ad campaign 
By BOB MUSSELMAN 
Senior StaffReporter 
Readers all over the world can see Notre Dame senior Carl Gebo In a place usually reserved for bikini-clad beauties: the Sports Il­lustrated swimsuit issue. 
Gebo, a Notre Dame cheer­leader and Army ROTC cadet, is featured in a fuU-page adverstise­ment for the Army ROTC scholar­ship program which appears or will appear In 10 Issues of 8 na­tional magazines, including Sports Illustrated, Sport, Popular Science, People and Newsweek. 
The Howard Hall resident said he was one of nine cadets chosen at the Army Junior summer camp at Fort Louis, Washington, to ha.ve their pictures taken for promo­tlonalliterature. 
ln October, Army ad agency representatives notified Gebo that they wanted to use his photo In a scholarship ad. Photographers 
Looking literary 
junior john Gordon takes a look at what the sophomores are planning for this year's Sophomore Literary Festival which Is to begin March 1. The display at the library showcases the various guest speakers participating In the festival. 

Notre Dame, Saint Mary's student s~xuality rules differ 
many areas of student life. Concern­riage. Violations shall involve ing student sexuality, however, the suspension or dismissal." schools' regulations differ. 
At Notre Dame, du Lac, the official guide to student life, prohibits 

Campus
premarital sex. 
Sexuality

Rule eight states: "Because a genuine and complete expression of love through sex requires a commit· ment to a total living and sharing At Saint Mary's, however, there together oftwo persons In marriage, are no rules about disciplinary ac­the University believes that sexual tion to be taken toward any students union should occur only in mar-who engage in sexual union. 
spent three days here later that month capturing him In various poses and activities. 
He found out in December that the ad would appear in the swim­suit issue. 
"I really don't know what criteria they used to decide who to use In the ad," Gebo said, but he guessed that the choice was based upon his extracurricular activities, 
an  interview  conducted  at  the  
camp  photo  sessions  and  his  
photogenic qualities.  

An inset photo in the ad shows Gebo with several Notre Dame cheerleaders. Gebo said he and the cheerleaders were paid S1 to sign a release allowing the pictures to be used. 
Gebo said the ad tries to show that "even though you're a mem­ber ofArmy ROTC, you don't miss out on other college experiences." 
" 'For me, an Army ROTC scholarship Isn't making college any easier. It's making coUege pos­sible,' " he says in the ad. 
Two other cadets from other schools, who are also heavily in­volved with extracurricular ac­tivities, were chosen to appear in similar ads in different magazines, he said. 
Colonel Robert Skinner, com­mander of the Fighting Irish Army ROTC Battalion, said Gebo was chosen from approximately I 0,000 senior cadets. 
The University was paid a "legal buck," SI, for the right to use the "ND" symbol in the ad, Skinner said. 
He said the advertisement ap­pears In magazines that the Army's market survey indicated are read by high school seniors. Army ROTC, he said, is looking for stu­dents like Gebo who are athletl­caUy and academicaUy inclined. 
see ARMY, page 4 


Restructuring plan presented to senate 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior Staff Reporter 
A proposal for a new student government constitution was presented by members of the Com­mittee on Restructuring to the stu­dent senate last night. 
According to the proposed constitution, the governing body of Notre Dame student government will be the student senate. The proposed senate would consist of a single representative from each dorm, with the exception of Grace and Flllnner which would have two, and two off campus senators. The student body president will chair the senate but will only vote in the case of a tie. The student body vice president would be a nonvoting member ofthe senate. 
John Spatz, senior class president, said he thinks representatives from the classes should be on the senate. "You need more distribution of representation," he said. I think it's lmportllnt that we (the classes) have more say and input into what's hap­pening." 
Under the bylaws of the proposed constitution six standing commit­tees would be esublished under the direction of the senate to carry out much ofthe senate's work. A finance and budget committee would be es­tablished to allocate student funds. A 
Mary Ann O'Donnell, dean ot stu­dent affairs at Saint Mary's, explained the reason for no direct reference to sex and sexuality in the ·Student Handbook. Sex is difficult to address in the form of rules, according to O'Donnell. 
"We feel that it is the respon­sibility of the students. They can decide for themselves," said O'Donnell, stating that the policy at Saint Mary's deals with education rather than regulation. 
"Saint Mary's has always prided it-

Notre Dame student Carl Gebo Is appearing In elgbt various publications after being selected to be a part of an Army ROTC scholarship ad campaign. Story at left. 
Student Concerns Committee would "formulate policy and direct action on matters that concern acedemic and societal problems which will affect student life," ac­cording to the proposed constitu­tion. 
Under the proposal, a Student Activities Board Steering Commit­tee would determine social programming and a Rules Commit­tee would intrepret the constitu­tion. An Executive Communications Committee would est2bllsh a chan­nel of communication between leaders of various student interests. 
In addition, under the proposal, a Campus Ufe Committee, composed of eight senators would formulate policy and direct action on matters that concern student resldenrlalllfe. Hall President's Council Chlllrman Kevin Howard said he thought eight senators is too many people on the committee. Howard said that a com­mittee of eight won't be able to get anything done. Howard suggested a two member committee would be more effective. "They will get much more done," he said. 
If the senate adopts the new con­stitution then it must be passed by two-thirds of the Hall President's Council or a two-thirds vote of the student body. 
see SENATE, page 4 

selfIn being proactive in education," said O'Donnell. That Is the reason why Saint Mary's developed a Sexuality Education Council, she said. Saint Mary's sponsored a series ofspeakers addressing such topics as hygiene, knowing your body, sexually transmitted diseases, and contraception, which will be final series tomorrow night at Saint Mary's. She said, adding that experts In each field have spoken on three 
see SEXUALITY, page 4 

-------~------------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986-page 2 

To err is human, to correct is simply good journalism 
In Brief 
M1V, the cable music channel, has stopped using NASA footage ofthe space shuttle blastingoffas part ofits logo in the wake of the Challenger disaster. For the first week after the tragedy, MTV left the logo on the air as a statement of support for space exploration along with a statement by MTV's "VJ"s extending the network's sympathies to the families of the seven astronauts killed in the Challenger fireball. But network executives soon decided it was "too painful to use" and have replaced it with an interim logo, a menagerie ofanimated MTV promos, and a message from MTV's general manager explaining why it has been replaced. · 
Tbe Observer 
Allan Hoody has been appointed to the position of manager of Corby Dining Hall. Holody has served as production manager at North Dining Hall since January 1984. He is a graduate from Michigan State University. He also served at Memorial Hospital in South Bend for three years. · The Observer 
Robert Vecchio chairman and professor of manage­ment at Notre Dame, has been named Franklin D. Schurz Professor of Management by Professor Timothy O'Meara, University provost. A specialist in personnel and organizational behavior, Vecchio graduated from De Paul University in 1972. -Tbe Observer 
Of Interest 
"Women, Ministry and the Church" is the book to be discussed tomorrow at 12:15 as part of the ongoing Noon Book Review Series at Saint Mary's. Sister Francis Bernard, superior general of the Congregation of Sisters of the Holy Cross, will discuss the book, which contains a series ofarticles on the role ofwomen in the Catholic Church. The discussion will take place in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge and is sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. -Tbe Observer 
Students whose ID pictures were taken in the first two weeks of this semester and have the void date of Feb. 28, may pick their ID cards in the Registrar's Office between 8 a.m. and 4 
p.m. Monday through Friday. They should bring both temporary IDs with them to avoid a •1 0 charge. · Tbe Observer 
Henry Frigon, president and CEO of Batus, Inc., which owns Gimbel's, Sak's Fifth Avenue, Marshall Fields and Brown & Wil­liamson Tobacco, will be speaking on "A Corporate Chief Ex­ecutive's Case Study in Financial Strategy" at 4 today in Room 122 at Hayes-Healy. The lecture will be followed by a reception. Then at 7:30, William Ellis, president and CEO ofPlper,Ja1fray & Hopwood, will be speaking on "Regional Investment Banking" in the same room. Areceptionwill follow this talk. All are invited. · Tbe Observer 
Shenanigans will be featured in Cabaret Night, an event at the Senior Alumni Club sponsored by Student Activities. It will be tonight at 8 and all are welcome to join in the informal entertain­ment including a variety ofstudent talent. · Tbe Observer 
Potential candidates for Notre Dame student body president and vice president are encouraged to attend an informa­tional meeting tonight at 7 in room 118 of Nieuwland Hall. · Tbe Observer 


Weather 
The heatis on outside today, allow· ing you to turn down the heat inside as the tern· perature is expected to hit 46degrees. It will be mostly cloudy though, so don't get the suntan lotion out yet. Tomorrow it is expected to remain cloudy and warmer with temperatures in the mid-50s.· Tbe Observer 


___ . ----.1.-=-Y~ --­

Ibe-Obs.-e~~er-­
Design Editor.............Jane Anne Rledford Viewpoint Layout........•. Melinda Murphy Design Assistant...........•.. Tracy Schlndele Features Copy Editor..........Eric Bergamo Typesetters......................Suzanne Hammer Features Layout ...•............Sharon Emmite Bill Highducheck ND DayEditor...........•.•.•....•.Ib.y Szafranski SMCDay Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor.............................Scott Bearby AdDesign..............•...•.Cawrine Ramsden Copy Editor ....................•.•. Marpe Kersten Allison Fahrenhoft Sports Copy Editor.................Many Bums Pbotograpber..................... Paul Pahoreslry VIewpoint Copy Editor.. Maura Mandyck Typtst..........................................CoUeen Foy 
The ObKrver (USPS 599 .Z·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TheObeerver is published by the students ofthe llniversity of Noue Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S30 per year (SlOper semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The ObKrver is a member of The As8oclated Pftu. All reproduction rights are resrrved. 
Nobody likes to make mistakes. 

Especially a newspaper, which prides itself on ac­curacy and getting it right the first time. Indeed, be­cause . a newspaper does pride itself on accuracy, making a mistake hurts all the more. 
Yet a newspaper, like all human institutions, does make mistakes. Speakers can be misquoted, information misunderstood and names misspelled. 
When a mistake is made in a story, it reflects on that section ofthe newspaperand the newspaper as a whole. 
Ifa name is misspelled in a news story, for example, it hurts the credibility of not just the news department, but the sports, editorial and features departments as well. After all, when one fact is wrong in a story, how can the reader be sure that the rest of the story is ac­curate? Or the rest ofthe paper? 
Thus, once a mistake does appear, the newspaper has to admit it. In print. 
And it hurts. Running a correction can be comparable to standing in front of an auditorium packed with people and admitting that what you told them yester­day was wrong. For papers like the Wall Street Journal, Detroit Free Press or Chicago Tribune more than a half a million people are in that "auditorium." For The Observer, approximately 12,000 are there. 
Because corrections call attention to newspapers' mistakes, many of those in that "auditorium" focus on the aspect of error in that correction rather than the correction itself. In other words, instead of viewing corrections as evidence of a newspaper's commitment to accuracy, some readers unconsciously focus on that newspaper's occasional mistakes. 
Ironically then, while corrections should help a newspaper's credibility, corrections inadvertantly may be hurting it. 
Public opinion polls on the credibility of different media may provide indirect evidence ofthis. According to one such poll in 1980, a majority of Americans said that when they receive conflicting stories from televi­sion and newspaper reports, they give more credit to the television's account ofthe events. 
This might have something to do with television newscasts rarely, ifever, admitting to mistakes they've made the day before. Ofcourse it may be that television reporters never make mistakes. More than likely, however, it's because viewers would switch stations if every other night they heard the anchorman say, "Sorry about this folks, but last night we made a mistake in 
1la*sto you... it works... 

Mark Pankowski 
Assistant News Editor 
saying ...." 
So newscasts have good reason for not admitting to their mistakes, ifin fact they do make them. And by not airing corrections, that might just be enough to give television newscasts the edge over newspapers in the credibility department. 
Yet responsible newspapers continue to run correc­tions. And they do so primarily for two reasons. The first is the simple fact that when a newspaper 
makes a mistake, usually someone knows about it, and he or she makes sure the newspaper knows about it too. Sometimes in rather strong terms. If the newspaper then doesn't run a correction, that person is sure to tell others. Or rue a lawsuit. 
Once enough mistakes run without next-day cor· rections, then, that paper eventually loses its credibility, its readers, and its money. 
The other reason is much more idealistic, and impor· tant: a newspaper's commit· ment to accuracy and truth. 
A newspaper must go out ofits way to get the most ac­curate information possible. 
This of course means getting the facts right the first time. But when the facts aren't right the first time, it means admitting the mistake with a correction the next day. 
And readers must help that newspaper. They must try to focus on the newspaper's commitment to accuracy when it has to run corrections rather than its occas· sional mistakes. 
After all, when a newspaper prints corrections, readers shouldn't worry about that paper's commit· ment to truth and accuracy. It's when a newspaper stops printing corrections when readers should start to worry. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
AU.
for 

OFUS 
• 



The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 3 
Food services director receives 'silver plate' 
By DAVID T. LEE 
NewsSmff 
Under the leadership of Director of University Food Services William Hickey, the dining halls may have to expand their trophy case:. 
Hickey has been awarded the Sil­ver Plate Award from the Interna­tional Foodservlce Manufacturers Association. 
"(It is) the most exciting profes­sional citation I've ever received in my life," said Hickey. "My family and I are dated." 
He: gave credit to "creativity, in­novativc:nc:ss, pride in the work we do," and pointed to a "routine that's offilet. . . creating special theme nights." 
"(Food Services) tries to cover every aspect of student dining," Hickey said. He pointed to such features as an excellent salad bar and the: c:ver·prc:sc:nt variety ofcereals. 
Suffering a heart attack two years ago, Hickey showed a healthy ap­preciation of the: nutritional value of food. "Everyone has healthy food available." He pointed to examples of low cholesterol fish and high car­bohydrate pasta. 
Hickey said, however, he sees "nothing different" from dining hall service last year. 

The International Food Service Manufacturers Association awards eight Silver Plate Awards from various categories of service. These include secondary schools, hospi­tals, hotels, public institutions, military, fast service and full service restaurants, and colleges, of which Hickey represents the last. 
Hickey said he will receive his medal at a banquet in Chicago on May 19. In addition, one person will receive the Gold Plate Award, which is the highest honor bestowed by the food service industry. Hickey, who noted that no college has won the award since 1955, is extremely doubtful he will receive this coveted honor. 
Although aware of the "dissatisfaction of students", Hickey said "students... (are) very impor­tant to us." "I wish students would try to compare our food service with other food services." 


Large puddles submerged much of the campus navigate her way across a small lake near yesterday as warmer temperatures melted tee and LaFortune. snow. Sophomore Kate Hyder ts shown trying to 



Saint Mary's board notes Hurley valentine, health update 
By PEGGY PROSSER The last lecture of the Sexuality activities sponsored by the Christian istry and student government, and a "I want to know what's going on Waif Reporter series will be this Wednesday at 7 Ufe Commission due to lack of representative is needed to serve as In Campus Ministry, not Christian 
p.m. in Stapleton lounge, said Kol­publicity, lack ofstudent attendance that link. Life,·: said Kollman. 
Saint Mary's students recently lman. The lecture will be titled, at meetings and general lack ofInter­"The primary responsibility ofthe "I think we need to know the: best received Valentine greetings from "Optimism, the Worst Con­est, according to Heidi Cerneka, a representative is to communicate way to connect Campus Ministry Injured Notre Dame student Kevin traceptive." CLCmember. information between hall and class and student government," said Sister Hurley, announced student body "Romancing the Stone" will be In 'response to this problem, a council, and they are there to Mary Turgi, assistant director of 
president Anne: Marie Kollman, at shown this Thursday night at 6, 8 proposal has been drawn up by the respond to the needs of the ,coun­Campus Ministry. last night's Board of Governance and 10. It will also be shown at 6, 8, CLC, calling for a representative cil," said Dahle. meeting. 10 and 12 pm this Friday. who can meet on a regular basis with "The person who has traditionally 
Student government has
In a letter written by his mother, it Campus Ministry, attend CLC been CLC representative: has felt Is­expressed concern over the
was said that Hurley's condition Is Kollman congratulated the new meetings and report all information olated on the: boards. She's felt like 
purpose of a CLC representative on
steadily improving. Hurley is slowly student body officers, who will take to the Board of Governance. she: was the only person represent­
the board of governance. According 
able to identify people through a office after spring break. Mary Lally ing that interest," said Turgi. 
freshman class picture sent to him was also recognized for her effort in Doing this, said Cath Dahle, Chris­to Kollman, student government last semester, according to the let­organizing the elections. tian Ufe commissioner, would result would like to have a representative ter. in more information beingpassed on from Campus Ministry to serve as The CLC Proposal will have to be 
"I think Mary gets a nice hand be­to students, through their hall liason, as the present system of CLC re-written by both CLC and CampusStudents arc: encouraged to stop representatives on student govern­Ministry, as the present plan does
by the: bulletin board In the Haggar cause she did an awesome job," said representatives. Dahle said the role of CLC Is to ment Is not working as effectively as not satisfy the needs of all con­
College Center to see the valentine, Kollman. said Kollman. Most students do not know about provide a link between Campus Min-it could. cerned, Kollman said. 

ND·endowed with professorship 
Special to The Observer he became a co-founder and first finance some 35 electronics com­president of Melabs, a microwave panies on the San Francisco penin­Jack Melchor, a California venture systems and components company sula. As a member of President capitalist who received his doc­in Palo Alto, Calif. Five years later he Reagan's Innovation & torate from Notre Dame, has co-founded Hewlett-Packard As­Entrepreneurship Task Force:, he endowed a visiting professorship in sociates, a producer ofsc:mlconduc· was among those: who recom­Notre Dame's College of Engineer­tor, photoconductor and mended the capital gains tax rol­ing. microwave components. After the lback and a research and "The fruits ofJack Melchor's busi­company was fully acquired as an H­development tax credit. He holds 
ness acumen will benefit p Group he became general six U.S. patents, has written 12 engineering students at Notre Dame manager of the Hewlett-Packard technical publications and is a fel· for decades to come," commented Palo Alto Division. low of the lnsltutue for Electrical Father Theodore Hesburgh, Univer­In 1969 Melchor founded the Palo and Electronics Engineers. 
sity president. Alto Investment Co. He served as 
After receiving bachelor's and chairman and chief excutive officer Melchor received the Notre master's degrees in physics from the of the firm, which initially Invested Dame Centennial ofScience citation University of North Carolina, Mel­in 12 start-up companies and four ot­In 1967 and has been a member of chor graduated from Notre Dame hers. In 1980 he founded Melchor the University's College ofEngineer­with a Ph.D. in physics. He headed Venture Management Inc. in Los Ing Advisory Council since 1982. He the microwave ferrite group of Syl­Altos, Calif., and continues to serve and his wife, Norma, a South Bend vania Electric Products, Mountain as its president. As a venture native, are the: parents of four View, Calif., from 1953-56. In 1956 capitalist, Melchor has helped children. 

Most AIDS inmates located in East 
Associated Prell8 found 144 current AIDS cases in all in New York, New Jersey and Pen­of the nation's state and federal nsylvania, the report concluded. WASHINGTON -Nearly 75 per­prisons, where the inmate popula­"You keep hearing that prisons cent of prison inmates who have tion is about 500,000. An additional are breeding grounds for AIDS, but AIDS are housed In correctional 
35 current cases were found in 11 of In fact there: arc: only a very small facilities in three East Coast states, 32 city and county systems sur· 
number of jursldlctions with sub­according to a federally financed 
veyed, according to the report, stantial numbers of AIDS cases and study that disputes assertions that sponsored by the National Institute 
the vast majority of jurisdictionsthe deadly disease is rampant among ofJustice in the Justice Department have: very few or no cases," the the nation's jails. and the American Correctional As· report's author, Theodore: Hammett The report, the first of national 
sociation. of the research firm Abt Associates scope on the Incidence of the Nearly all current AIDS cases Inc., said In an Interview. disease in prisons, found that about found by the study were contracted 50 percent of the nation's prisons from intravenous drug abuse before Three: state prison systems have are totally free of AIDS, and that 4 admission to the jail or prison, the AIDS rates that are In excess of 30 percent of the nation's correctional study released Sunday concluded, times that of the: general prison institutions have 72 percent of all On a cumulative basis, nearly population, the study said. The: the Inmate AIDS cases. three-quarters of the offenders who report categorized the: figures by The study, "AIDS in Correctional have had AIDS In state, county and region and did not identify in­Facilities: Issues and Options," city jails nationwide: are in facilities dividual systems. 

Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from DOMINO'S PIZZA'"'. Made to order and delivered In 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 otf your order. 
And on Tuesday, get $2.00 otf any 16-inch cheese pizza with 2 or more toppings. 
Just ask for Tuesday's special. Available all day this Tuesday... only from Domino's Pizza. 


D~r/Jr
rJoeft 
Call us: 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivero carry loss than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request the Tuesday special. LlmHed dellvety area. ~ 1986 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
II 
DOMINO'S 
· PIZZA 
. DELIVERS® 


: · ®FREE. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 4 

Senate 
continuedfrompage 1 
The senate will consider adopting 

the constitution proposal at a 
meeting tomorrow. 
Judicial Coordinator Karen In­

gwersen and Student Activities 
Board Manager Lee Broussard said 
they think it will be difficult to ap­
prove a new constitution before the 
upcoming student government elec­
tions, scheduled for March 4. They 
suggested that the senate take the 
next month to consider the 
proposed constitution and then 
have it take effect in April 1987. "If 
we decided tonight to make it come 
into effect a year from now then we 
will have more time to work on 
this," said Broussard. 
Off-Campus senator Jim Hagan disagreed with Ingwersen and Broussard. "I think the longer we delay, the worse things get. I think we need a strong, centralized stu­dent government right away," he said. It's like putting off chemot­herapy for another year." 
Jim Domagalski, junior class presi­dent, also said he didn't think putting off ratification of the con­stitution was wise. 
The senate compromised by res­cheduling the date for student government tors. elections to March 
11. The delay will give the senate more time to consider the constitu­tion and allow potential candidates more time to make a decision about running, said Senator K.C. Culum. 

Tylenol 
continuedfrom page 1 
enter this business for the foreseeable future," Burke said. 
The decision was made to "protect the public," Burke said. He said the company was confident that consumers would keep Tylenol "the most preferred" brand of painkiller in the country. 
"We fought our way backfrom the 

Chicago tragedy... thanks Army  to the  
continued/rom page 1 Skinner said the Notre  Dame  

detachment is proud co have Gebo represent them. 
Though Gebo said he was flat­tered to be featured in such a well­read campaign, he downplayed his star status. 
"Mostly what I did was stand in front of the camera and act natural," he said. 

ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS 
Center for rton-Vloleace Heklnl full-tilDe .utf. 
Lodging, f11Qomo., I HNifh COl'. 
l'uOIIclnf•Nit,....rclll ,.,,.,.,.,,.. 011 anNNkNI.
.....,,.,COU,...OIIItOft­
~.,.d~tlllfl 
N•tfoulCodtlon 011 r.r....-­L.oNied"' ChJNilt'll M.fC to 
U.oiiiiiiHII8 
0...,..tCOMmHtrrrHC. 
t1DOO ._.,.11oft•tlpltltd· 
Call: 21 7-3114-J !120 s.n4,........ to; 1"llotnu -cld.N.D. 
~2J5~C~IL 
•tao 
Student Government 

,.... 



Questions? Comments? Concerns? Call239-7668 


fairness and good judgement ofcon­sumers," Burke said. "We will do it again this time." 
The company will stop producing capsule forms of Extra-Strength Tylenol, Regular Strength Tylenol, Sine-Aid, Co-Tylenol, Maximum­Strength Tylenol Sinus Medication and Dimensyn, a menstrual medica­tion. 
Frank Young, commissioner ofthe 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, said the agency "respects" the com­pany's decision. "This is a matter of Johnson & Johnson's own business 
Now serving 
judgement and represents a respon­
sible  action  under  tough  cir­ 
cumstances," he said.  
However,  it would  be  

"premature" for the rest of the in­dustry to follow suit, Young said, noting that various types ofcapsules have certain advantages, such as a time-release capability. 
He said FDA and industrY officials will meet in the next few days to "discuss what technological changes might be possible to respond effectively to this problem." Johnson & Johnson stopped 
4609 Gra,pe Road 
J.M.S. Plaza Mishawaka 
cQ~ot, 



Sexuality 
continued from page 1 
separate occasions. 
Should a student become preg­
nant, O'Donnell said they would not 
be suspended or expelled from 
school. 
O'Donnell concluded, "It should 
be remembered, however, that Saint 
Mary's strictly enforces a social con­
duct code which prohibits male 
visitation before or after the 
designated parietal hours," 
Patricia Rissmeyer, director of residence life and housing, outlined Saint Mary's philosophy on sex and sexuality. 
"I think what is most imponant to Saint Mary's is to graduate students who have developed a conscience. I think our approach to rules and regulations is to have students decide their own conscience and make their own decisions on impor­tant issues. 
"The RAs and residence hall staff are qualified to discuss issues about sex and sexuality. If a student has a decision then she can discuss the pros and cons with them in a Cat­holic context," said Rissmeyer. 
"When a student graduates, we hope she can make decisions that she can live with. That's what we want to send our students out into the world to do," she said. 
Rissmeyer also told of the sexuality education program in­itiated at Saint Mary's to help inform 
making Tylenol capsules after Diane Elsroth's death, and Burke had said Friday that resumption of produc­tion would depend on consumer surveys and the investigation of the tamperings. 
The replacement program will cost the company an estimated n 50 million, he said. But he said that does not compare with the suffering of, the family of Elsroth, who had taken cyanide-laced Extra-Strength Tylenol capsules. 
The future ofcapsule medications was called into question after Elsroth died and a second bottle students. Its purpose is to aid in 
responsible decision-making based 
on sound knowledge ofall aspects of 
the issue. 

Repeated attempts to contact 
John Goldrick, Notre Dame as­
sociate vice president for residence 
life, were unsuccessful. Sister Jean 
Lenz, assistant vice president for stu­
dent affairs, said that Goldrick deals 
with violations of the rules and she 
could not speak for him. 

Father Edward Malloy, associate 
provost and assistant professor of 
theology at Notre Dame, discussed 
the University's attitude towards sex 
and sexuality. 

"The basic philosophy is reg­
ulated by the trustees. Notre Dame 
defines itself as a Catholic institution 
and it respects the tradition from 
which it comes," said Malloy. 

"We try to acquaint students with 
the Catholic Church's teachings. 
There are courses in departments 
like theology, sociology, biology, 
etc., in which the teacher can deal 
with various areas ofsexuality in the 
formal sense," he said. 

According to Malloy, "Ifa student 
becomes pregnant, however, she 
will not be asked to leave school. 

"One educates by expectations 
for behavior. We keep trying to find 
ways to help students," Malloy said. 

University Ministry had a program 
titled the "Catholic Faith Series" 
which dealt with ethics and 
addressed the subject of sexuality. 
Counseling is also available in the 
dorms, through Counseling and 
Psychological Services and its coun­
seline. 
containing tainted Tylenol capsules was found in a store less than two blockes from the store in which the fatal dose was purchased in Bronxville, just nonh of New York City. 
The three-seal tamper-resistant wrappings, introduced in 1982 after the deaths in the Chicago area, ap­peared to be intact on the second bottle, found Thursday. 

FDA spokesman William Grigg said the government considered the tampering a "local incident." 

Pazas, sandwiches '~' 
call 277-5680 
Live music Fri & Sat No Cover 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTINGFOilFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
~7/256-5716 
Call Anytime 

'*******************************************************************·~ 
i * SEX * ~ 
* * 
: IS NOT INCLUDED BUT... ! I* ska.tif\9 * Hot * p.J. i* ~ l * Chocolate * i 
* * 
* * 
~ provided at ACC Ice Rink ~ 
* * 
~ Feb. 20, 8-10:15 ~ 
* *
* * 
: A STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRODUCTION ~ ********************************************************************: 
-----, 



A few practical jokes:Courtesy of Notre Dame 
--~-------------­

Accent 
Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 5 
KEVIN D. WALSH 
features writer 

F
ather Hesburgh's sense ofhumor 
is a well-kept secret here at 
Notre Dame. Just look at du Lac. 
Pretty funny, huh? Sorry, the joke's 

on you. Uke It says in"The Ab· 
solutely, Positively Very Last Notre 
DameJoke Book," "What's black 

and white and living-ln-the-40s all 
over? duLac." DuLac may well be 
the handbook that Is used for all the 
practical jokes that go on here. 
I'm not talking about the cosmic practical jokes that the universe plays on us with mathematics, or Casey Kasem, or even those McDL T "Hand-Warmin'" commercials. No, these are jokes thought up by some power (this may be hard for some ofyou to believe )even greater than the people under the Dome. 
Despite the fact that they really aren't the Omnipotent Proprietors ofthe Entire Universe that they pass themselves off to be, being at Notre Dame, one experiences some pretty clever practical jokes. Come with me as we uncover the Horrible and Nasty Practical Joke Conspiracy going on right under our noses. 
Ethanol. Uterally, right under our noses. This one is kind oflike that stink perfume that you can buy in Spencer's only on a much larger scale. Remember how funny It was to sprinkle that stuff on your best friend's sister when you were In fifth grade? Imagine the rollicking hilarity to be had from dousing an entire college campus In the stuff. 
Gerry Faust. I picture a member of the administration and his cronies sluing around some Friday night five years ago with a boule of Peach Schnapps and a bandolier of grenades trying to dunk midgets in McDonald's Secret Big Mac sauce. Around 2:30a.m., someone burped and he was suddenly hit with In­spiration. "Hey! I've got it! Wouldn't it be hilarious if we hired a high school coach?" Ofcourse, he knew the dangers of practical joking when he started. 
The Dining Halls. The jokes being played in the dining halls lean more toward the traditional. 
There's the "Eggplant Grinder." The trick brown bowls that are so hot that they evaporate yogurt always get me. And which one ofus hasn't stood by stifling our glee while some hapless friend or freshman unknowingly tried to actually eat 
one ofthose rubber biscuits? Whoever originally came up with the masterstroke ofstaffing the dining halls with renegades from Willy Wonka's Oompa-Loompa Land and outcasts from the Far Side is deserving ofsome kind of Practi­calJoke Ufetime Achievement Award. 
My Hall. Okay, I admit that it might have been a mistake telling the Admissions people that I was "a simple, !!ensitive country boy, who likes quiet music, good friends, fresh strawberries, and rainy days." It was a deplorable, vile lie. But did they have to punish me so per­manently? They put me right down the hall from a couple ofpsychos who enjoy racing up and down the hallways at light speed from suo­down to sunup, screeching loudly 
like chipmunks sucking helium. 
When those two are busy hiding from the sun, the-six-and-a-half-foot 
kickboxer next door usually has his atomic-powered stereo turned up so loud that it registers on the Rich­ter Scale. The novelty ofour R.A.; a blind, Air Force ROTC leper, wore off in two or three weeks. Then there are the wretched water grem­lins living in the walls near the showers who wait for me to let my guard down in the shower before turning up the heat levels of the water so high that three layers of skin are instantly vaporized off my Inner thigh. Funny stuff. And to top it all off, I think someone Is stealing my Kleenex. 


The Phone System. This Is a twist on the classic "Have you got Prince Albert In a can?" phone prank from everyone's childhood. I'm sure that all the Big Guys over In the Administration Building giggle like gleeful maniacs when they think about the phones here. My roommate noted astutely that one could conceivably walk to St. Mary's In the time It takes to get a phone connection over there. Then ofcourse there are the "trick" con­nections that I keep stumbling Into. Is it me? Do I have a demon phone or what? I'll pick up the phone and suddenly I'm listening Into some stranger's secret and Intimate con­versation. 
''Have you got Prince Albert in a can?'' 
Guy: You drive me mad with desire. 
Girl: Uh ...me too. 
Me (disguising my voice): but you look like Babe Ruth on acid. 
Guy: What? Me? 
Girl: Did you say that? 
Me (disguising my voice): No, my darling, you have the shins ofan eighty-year-old Zulu tribesman. 
Then I hang up. 
So that's it. These are but a few of 
the practical jokes that Notre Dame has played on me and I'm sure on you too. One that I didn't mention was the whole College Scene Facade. Sure,l saw "Animal House" in high school. I figured that's what college should be: wild parties, lots ofbeer, pretty girls surrounding me at all hours, mustard smeared all over my body and an endless soundtrack ofgreat music. 
So when does the Administration come up with a rock and roll policy? 

Do you have a way with  
The Accent  
department of The Observer  
is looking for talented features  
writers.  
Help us open up issues, analyze trends, review campus  ?•  
entertainment and interview celebrities.  
For more Information contact Mary Healy at the Observer office, 239-5313  

Dollmaker strives for originality 
Associated Press 
MEDFORD, Ore. Some artists paint, create pottery or put words on paper. Theresa McQuiston Robinson makes dolls. She's created be-tween 2,000 and 3,000 of them in the last I 0 years, for people all over the United States and in several foreign countries. 
She creates quietly behind the counter of the shop at which she works, the Calico Junction in Jack­sonviUe, as well as at home.. 
"It started as a home business," she says. "From there it just blossomed." 
Robinson attributes part of her success to timing. She got interested in making dolls in the early 1970s, "before C~bbage. Patch," and before national interest in sewn dolls "became ln." 
Uving In the San Francisco Bay area at the time, she tried ex­perimenting with making a few dolls. A friend took a couple of the dolls to work with her and showed them to her co-workers. Robinson suddenly started to get orders. Her work became known by word of mouth. 
Her dolls sold in shops in Be-verly Hills and Santa Monica, often for as much as S600 each. She made: dolls worked at the CalicoJunction for six years. 
for  Disney  World  and  Universal  
Studios.  
Robinson  moved  to  the  Rogue  
Valley  eight  years  ago  and  has  

At one point, she was commls· sioned to create 12 patterns for dolls. The problem, she says, is that there is no money In creating doll patterns "unless you own the com· pany." 
Robinson now prefers to take someone else's pattern and do some· thing creative with it. If you compare her doll with the pattern from which it came, you'll notice ob­vious dltferences. 
"I always try to make them dif· ferent," she says. "My main trademark is hair." She works with each doll to make an elaborate hair style. 
How long does It take to make a doll? the average is about six hours, Robinson says. Hers vary In size from nine to 36 inches. 
Around the Rogue Valley, making dolls is not so lucratl~. An average creation ofhers goes for about 130, a far cry from the 1600 one might fetch in Beverly Hills. But she Is con­tent to work at those prices. 
Walk Into the CalicoJunction and you see a number of dolls, amon~t them a grandma doll and an angel doll that are much admired by brow­sers. The grandma doll led to the in­vitation to create those 12 pat-terns. 

You also see quilts and pillows that Robinson creates. "I always try to do some-thing out ofthe ordinary," she says. 
Besides creating her own dolls, Robinson also teaches others how to dolt. 
"I love teaching," she says. "It's fun to make a doll but even more fun to watch a student you've taught make one." 
Besides classes at the store, she has taught at Ashland High Schoo1 and Everyone's U at Southern Oregon State College. She has taught for the last seven to eight years and estimates 700 students have learned from her. Some are now her com­petitors, in a sense. 
Abit ofadvice Robinson gives !'ltu· dents is to sign and date each doll they create. Antique -dolls are popular In exhibits In museums. Today's dolls may be the museum exhibits of tomorrow, she points out. 
"One hundred years from now, sewing techniques will have changed some more," she says. "It's rewarding to see your knowledge passed on." 
-----------------. 

View~0 int 
Tuesday, February 18, 1986-page 6 
Citibank has many reasons for lending to Brazil 
Hey, do you want to get a job at Citibank? If you do, you should never mention in your job interview that you disagree with Citibank's credit policy towards countries like Brazil. This article is to help you understand why Citibank, among other banks, is still in love with the "Girl from Ipanema." 
Ricardo Araujo 
guest column 
Last January, authorities from the Brazilian 
government (the Finance Minister, the Plan­
ning Minister and the President ofthe Central 
Bank-the "Boys from Ipanema") visited the 
headquarters of Citibank in New York. They 
came to the United States reluctant to pay the 
world's biggest foreign debt ever-nos bil­
lion. Instead, the Brazilian authorities arrived 
in New York with hopes of borrowing more 
money from Citibank, one of Brazil's major 
creditors. 
What Brazil asked for, and got, was a short­
run credit of n 5.2 billion and a "will think 
about it" promise from the bankers about 
changing the interest rate level from the 
American prime rate to the libor rate (the rate 
paid in London's market). This change would 
save Brazil some S350 million annually, ac­
cording to Brazilian authorities. 
Like all previous meetings, the negotiations 
were long and tiresome. They were marked by remarks of skepticism on the part of Citibank negotiators, who demonstrated reluctance to lend more money to Brazil wit­hout the approval of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). yet, despite the hesita­tions expressed in the first rounds of negotia­tions,the three Brazilian authorities returned to Brazil with "their pocketsfull offresh cash." This time they got the best out ofthe negotia­tions precisely because the IMF played no role in the direct transactions between Brazil and Citibank. 
Bankers are smart, no doubt about it. They 
play only to win in this business of giving loans. Although they also make occasional mistakes, bankers score high in financial deals. Therefore, it was not the smiling and friendly faces of the three Brazilian authorities that persuaded Citiba(lk to advance more money to Brazil. The decision was undoubtedly based on the bank's optimism about the con­ditions of the Brazilian economy now and in the future. 
While it holds the fame ofbig debtor, Brazil remains the only country paying $1 billion in interest every month to all ofits creditors, wit­hout delay. Although the principal is left un­paid, one could say "who cares?" If the bankers received the principal owed them tomorrow, they would have to find somebody else to borrow the "bloody petro-dollars" that the Saudi Arabians deposited in American banks not too long ago. (The Saudis were looking for a safe place to put their money). 

As Michael Moffit, an economics consultant for Shearson-American Spress, has said, the bankers knew from the beginning that they could not get the same profit margin if they tried to lend money to made-in-USA com­panies. A company the size of Exxon, for ex­ample, can go anywhere to borrow money. Therefore, since the 1970's the bankers have largely depended on "poor" countries to make fat profits. Citibank, Chase Manhattan, and Bank ofAmerica together increased their profits by 55 percent in the late seventies with transactions outside the United States. 
With Brazil, banks have a good thing going. They receive fresh payments every month from a debtor they have good reason to believe will not default. 
As a developing country, Brazil is doing very well despite the negative effects of the 1973 and 1979 oil shocks, which jeopardized the building of infra-structures (dams, bridges, roads, telecommuncations network, for example) and the industrialization ofcon­sumer and capital goods. The high cost of energy put pressure on the country to diver­sify its industrialization in order to increase its export earnings. Up until recently, 80 percent of the oil used in Brazil was imported from Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). When the country used up all ofits foreign reserves, Brazil had to borrow dollars to pay the oil import bill and to finance its major industries. 
In the past five years, the tenth largest economy in the world has been struggling to restore its development process. So far, the results have been convincing. Last year Brazil had one of the highest growth rates of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the world-seven percent or S214.2 billion. The trade surplus reached U2.5 billion and now the country has S9 billion in foreign reserves. This trade surplus is bound to continue at this level, or higher. For the export diversification policy has made Brazil the fifth largest seller ofarms in the world and the third largest exporter of frozen chicken, among other items. 
Though the bankers are aware of the fact that Brazil has many internal problems (high inflation, unemployment, underemployment) and continues to depend largely on interna­tional markets to obtain dollars to pay the loans, they are optimistic about the future of the Brazilian economy and the political stability ofthe country's new democracy. 
Citibank's positive response to the demands of Brazil shows that this bank sees Brazil's economy as robust and dynamic. The foreign debt represents a plus for both Brazil (in regard to its development) and Citibank (in regards to its profit margin). And this is a good reason to remain in love with the "Girl from Ipanema." 
Ricardo Araujo is a senior economics majoratNotre Dame. 

Elitest attitude denying Rice a fair chance at ND 
The number 640 holds no significance in itself but seems to have come under close scrutiny over the past few days. 640 is the SAT score of football recruit Tony Rice. Many on this campus are quick to say that Rice does not belong academically at Notre Dame, that the University is lowering its standards to win football games. Before looking at that one simple number and deciding that Tony Rice does not belongat Notre Dame, consider this: 
Eric M. Bergamo 
here's to future days 
Many people believed that Vegas Ferguson did not belongat Notre Dame. 
Vegas Ferguson, one of the great players of the Dan Devine era, came to Notre Dame with academic numbers that were not much higher than Rice's. Some critics claimed that Notre Dame was lowering its high standards with the intention of winning football games. Fer­guson was accepted, and the naysayers waited for the moment that the prized recruit would 
Doonesbury 
fail in the classroom. That moment never came. 
Ferguson succeeded, both on the playing field and in the classroom. He became the all­time leading rusher with 3,472 yards and helped the Irish in their drive to the national championship in 1977. Ferguson graduated with a degree in economics in three and half years. 
Before we point the finger at Holtz and accuse him ofnot knowing the high academic standards of the University, consider that Devine knew the academic standards when he recruited Ferguson. Consider that th~ Univer­sity would not have hired Holtz if he was not aware of the academic standards that the Uni­versity demands. In Ferguson's case, the Uni­versity believed that he could succeed, with help, in the classroom. If the University did not believe that Rice has the same desire that Ferguson had, Rice would not have been ac­cepted into Notre Dame. 
As a community, we place too much of an emphasis on the SAT score. Our chances of success and offailure are gauged by one stan­dardized test. Remember that this test has 

ZOM,.,I 1'~ 8laJHue
I tOVEP 7HANI< 
[)(}/<£'$A
"· AU.. &V&N!NG!

n; IJAJWN6! YOU 50 
CIAO,
H£Y, 

YOU G/JESS WHAT! 
5/.AV&?

7Ht /A/HOI£ MUCH. 
68NIUS 
MAf& f)IJK£'5 NOTlli3AA
THING.' 5P&-' J.J./ 
GIRL! 
\

CIAUY CONTES5A. 
IT. Ht'SA SLAV&/ 
\

7H& \ 
I 

many variables involved. My sister recently took the SAT; she is very proficient in English but got an SAT that was mostly math. That dif­ference showed in the total score. One of her friends, with very high grades in math, received an SAT that was mostly English and recieved a lower total score in the end. We cannot judge a person just on his or her SAT scores, yet that is what we are doing in the case ofTony Rice. This judgment is greatly un­fair to him. We are saying, "You didn't do well on the SAT, so you don't belong here at Notre Dame." 
admittance to Notre Dame and give him the chance he deserves. Be assured that Holtz and the University know what they are doing in letting Rice come to Notre Dame as Devine and the University did in letting Vegas Fer­guson come to Notre Dame. 
Vegas Ferguson proved the critics wrong when he recieved his degree. Hopefully, Tony Rice will rise above his critics to recieve his degree. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a sophomore interna· tiona/ relations majoratNotre Dame. He is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
This line of thinking is very dangerous, an elitest view that one who is not as academi­cally gifted as we deserves no place at Notre Dame. Tony Rice is an extremely gifted ath­lete, as some of the Notre Dame community are gifted scholars. Rice deserves a chance to prove himself in the classroom; that is what we as a community should give him. He also needs our support, both on and offthe playing field, if he is to succeed. The speculation that because of his 640 SAT score he will not succeed at Notre Dame is the last thing he needs. We should not question, but accept his 
Garry Trudeau 
The Viewpoint Department 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
15 7HI5A 5/CJ< 5/CKr Y(){J NANT JOKE, ZONKER~ 5/Q<.? 01ta< ISTH/SSOM& OUT THe EJATH­
501<T0f;. ROOMSH&Re. 
' 
Quote of the day 
"Minds are like para­chutes. They only func­tionwhen they are open." 
-Sirjames Dewar 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo AdVertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloultJ AdVertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Sairit Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
administration of either institlltion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ..................•.... John A. Men nell 
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ....: .................................... Mary Healy 
taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, is encourllged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ­
The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 7 

Sports Briefs 
The ND water polo team wm hold a practice The ND I SMC Women's Golf Club will be tomorrow from 9 -10:30 p.m at the RolfS Aquatic Center. For more videotaping tomorrow at regularly-scheduled times. For more in­information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588. -The Observer formation call Laura Gleason at 283-3351.-Tbe Observer 
NVA Interhall tournaments will be held inThe ND Salling Club will hold a meeting tonight at team relay swimming, wrestling, and field hockey. Interested teams 
6:30 in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. For more information call 
should register at the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. All joan Anderson at 272-1259.-Tbe Observer 
players must reside in the: same halL For information on entry fees and dates call NVA at 2 39-61 00. -Tbe Observer 
Campus tug-of-war captains should phone in A team water volleyball tournament 
their completed rosters by tomorrow. Captains should call Kevin will be held by the NVA. The double-elimination tourney will beLennon at 239-6440. -Tbe Observer 
open to anyone on campus, but rosters must include at least eight names. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. For more information call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a meeting for all rowers tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science An open singles racquetball tourney Building. For more information call Patricia Warth at 283-2759.-The will be held by the NVA. Separate elimination tournaments will be 
Obsen•er held for intermediate and advanced players, but entry is limited to the first 64 people that apply. Interested players should register at the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
The SMC Soccer Club will hold its third indoor soc­cer invitational on Saturday from 9 a.m.-5 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday Facility. St. Mary's will face teams from Indiana University, Michigan through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor State:, Wisconsin of Milwaukee, Marquette, and a select team from ofLafortune. BriefS should be submitted on the forms available at the Chicago. St. Mary's will take part in the opening game at 9 a.m. For office, and every briefmust include the phone number ofthe person more information call the: Angela Athletic Facility.-Tbe Observer submitting it. -The Observer 
The Pearl leads No.9 Syracuse to win over Pitt 
PITfSBURGH -Dwayne "Pearl'' Washington scored 23 points, in­cluding six key points down the: stretch, as ninth-ranked Syracuse: held off Pittsburgh, 69-62, last night to remain atop the Big East Con­ference. 
The Orangemen, trailing 55-54, scored six consecutive points to take a 60-55 lead with 5:35 remain­ing. Washington thc:n sealed the: vic­tory with a driving layup and two free throws in the final 1 :34 after Pitt rallied to within one point. 
Washington, averaging 28 points over his last five games, scored 16 in the second half as Syracuse im­proved its record to 21-3 overall and 12-1 in the Big East. 
Pittsburgh, 14-9 overall and 5-7 in the conference, again pulled within one point at 62-61 on Dc:mc:trc:us Gore's running shot from the: lane:. But Washington dribbled into the: lane for an c:ight-footc:r with 1 :34 to play and followed with two foul shots at the: 52-second mark to make: it 66-61. 
The Obsen•er :'liotr" Dame olfilT. loc:att·d on the third floor of lahtrlunt· Student C"nt"r. an·"pl~ das~ified ad\"ertisin~ from 9 a. OJ until -f p m. ~onda\ throu~h Frida~· The Obsert•er Sainr .\1ary·"s olfkt·. locllt·d on tht" third floor of Ha~~ar Colle~<" <:"nt.-r, al"l""pts dassifit·ds from 11:.~0 p.m until ~ p.m.. ~on· day thou~h Frida,· !kaoline for nt·xt-dn das~iftt·ds is -~ p.m..-\11 das~ifieds muM ht· prepaid. eilht·r in person or h\ mail <:har~e is I 0 n·nts per fin· l·harat··



Classifieds 
1"rs r da,·. 
One ticket needed 101' the Dayton/NO SAil'S WINTEII FESTIVAL IS COM­HeyHolmM. SPEND THE SUMMER AND/OR 1988­game on March 8-Cd 284-4425. INOIII 11'1 Judi w-·8-Dayl 87 SCHOOl YEAR IN SUNNY SPAIN. 
. FEB. 24-MARCH 1 HAVEAGREATONEIII Oulllty lnalructlon 11 Economy Pricee: BEACH PARTY-SKI TRIP-BOWLING­-WAYNERD AND THE MOIYONSI Bulin-Admlnlltration. Hlllpanlc 1980 NO GRAD WANTS TO IMPRESS 
~_N_O_TIC_E_S~' I~_F_O_R_R_EN_T~ 
ICESKATING SIUdiM. Aria end Sdenc:ee. GRADUATE BEAUTIFUL GIRL WITH 2 DAYTON 8­
UNDERGRAD NITE AT SENIOR COURSES IN HISPANIC STUDIES ol­BAI..l TIX. CALL 301-452-8809. LEAVE BAR-AND IIOIIEI fered In Juty. Conllcl: Admlaalona. St.
Typing Available s;;;;,~;~~~;d···;;;;;;;;;;··g;;;d···;;;;;;;;;: 
287-4082 
hood alter 4-255-3884/2n-3804. MESSAGE. AND I WILL PAY YOU FOR eurvey aaya ... Toml louie Unlvenity. 221 N. Grand llvd. St. THE TIX AND THE CALL. 
................................................................ loula, MO 63103. Toll-free lei.: (800) 32~ 
2-bdrm.apt. Cllll272_.813. 

COMING SOON ... SOONER THAN YOU ~~··c;;~;;;j;·p~·~·;;;·a.··;;;·i;;: 6886.
TYPING 
THINK ... THE SAGA ... THE WAR "NO IOf!TIItion Call 816 683 8750
CAU.CHIQ 
Bear. Happy B/d and Valentinee love.
FUN" ................................................................
214-1117. 
a·man who Ia Iorn ~n two lovers and Good Luck to awlm teama at Con­Thll weekend together -grMI. I love PERSONALS you. You c.me Into my Nfe juet •It­
IIIU.Ianlll\len here yet ference."Mit lakeala all you gol"
f WANTED ................................................................ lllllng apart. I could never love anyone
ATTN; STUDIENTS 
Coming lloon: ... JIM SULLIVAN: I'M HUNGRY I TERP Hke I do you. You're my life. my happi­
DolorM Franda typing aervlce ..................................................... ···:y;;;;·~~~;i-;;~-;;~rt-~~-;;;;~··ii;i·;;;;;: 
................................................................ .-.end 1 pert o1 me. come home aoon.
phone number change OVEMIEAS JOaS..Sum"*, yr.JGUnd. celve youraelf hurt ... Princeea
DAVE FLANAGAN SIUdenlll In need ol gynecological
2n-e131 Europe, s.......-., Aultnlll, Allll. All 
WEEKEND ................................................................
eervlcee can be aeen by lhe Unlvnty
lhlldl. •1110-2000 mo. ...,...,ng. 
-Rlchltd Bach. phyalclana Of by a gynecological HappJ 1Nf111111)', LCIII
F-Info. W11te IJC, PO h 112-!N-4, 
She"a 21 end never been Till llrlclge AcfMI F-• Come walch him get uglylll apaclallal. Gynecologiet by appoinlrnenlProiiMional word procelling and typing. CGr-1111 ....CA 121211. 
a. to lhe bara??? 
only 239-74117, Wed. mornlnge ($20 mini­
Convenient location on N. Ironwood. c.ll ................................................................ """A"ii;;;;·,~·;;;;i·;;,-~~-ih~"i;;i;;;;jj"i;;;i 
................................................................ mum lea). No tea 10 -Unlvenity b. killed???
2n-4220. Anyone lnlereated In going 10 Purdue Unl­
It Ia illwiY1' the 1111. Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at ·l>hyatclana. c.??? 
venity. Weet Latayella who would Uke lo 
·272-HIKE. Delivery hou,.: 5pm-12am ...........................~. ................................... Chooaeone. 
ride along (allbout 80 mph), 1"1 be going 
-calvin MIHer. Monday-Thu.-day; 5pm-2am Friday; HAPPY 11111 SUIIIIIEIIII Spnng Break (Would you ralher have had a picture?)juat about every -kend bul thla one. 
We love youlltiKGive mel Clllll you'd Uke tobepertolthle 
3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday Ia coming. Prepare lo gat biked In the 
aun. Where·• the Hewli/ln Tropic? P.S. l.....wcl In tutoring a South lland To,help you lleep better, lake TOequued 
LOST/FOUND I loi.II116Wexperience. Gertie: SMC «29(I Pulllug: ·················'············································· 
will try lobe mOfe grammaticaly correct In JIIIIY: We know thai In your time ol peak
Thank you for • wonderful 

echool kid? Till NSHP 1111 hal 11\1~ night. Caution: To begin. lake In HXUal potentilli. IUch I dapreaalng end
the car.) Velentfne·a ... I mlued you Saturday. 
opanlnga 81 Kennedy Grllde SchOOl on small dolagea! 
LOST: MEN'S N.D. GOLD RING with lnl­phyalcely aiUnting criela euch • thl1 11
no fingernalla 

~w-~ lrom 12:1111:411. "'-... Tom 81 11841 01 AliCia Ill COLLEEN • "'We've known each other
tiall T.A.O. In men·e room on .111 lloor NEEo·······R",iie······,.a······;;"LeveL:ANi:i much mOfe thai • tritely dlaappolnting 
Stepan Chemletry Building (north aide). WEEKEND OF 2/21 THROUGH 2/23. eplaode, lhal c.n be IOIHd aalde • If II
Paclldclle: 

28117. overay-...-·.
Pieuec11113556 W/PAY USUAL OR HELP RENT. CALL -e a uHCI kleenex. Wlnka. know thai
ThankiiiOf the chMHC~ke. We"H have lo 

................................................................ "'...Built took me 1 aecond 
LISA21155. we are here lo eupport you In whetll\ler
get aome mOfe champagne and hope lor "HCAUSE OF THE DIVEIISE CONDI­game lo realize what 1 vlcloue 

L.oel: A pair olta-ge bled< Ieath.-glovMin way we c.n -we know th1t gonlda hll\le
atrawberry nexl time. 

TIONS OF HUMANS, IT HAPPI!NS bowler you ue··
Nleu. Sc. on2fl. PleUeCIIII3S28 Nfieii"fiii:ifi ro ;;irissuAoH·:;;;;.;;;d leelinge.loo. Feellngoo 101' you. 2A Filley
T.B. 

THATSOliE ACTS ARE vomJOUS TO love.
o1 Feb. 21-23 (lhia weekend). Wll ahare SOliE PEOPLE, AS APPIIIOPNATE TOllLOST: MEN'S N.D. CLASS RING ON driving and expe-. Cd Jim AT 1596. DS. 
AND SUITULE TO THEil, WHILIE THE 
MONDAY. FEB 10 IN FIRST FLOOR FOUII GUYS DO III'WAUKI!I!
So wh1t .ttoullhia weekend? 

' IIAIIE ACTS ARIE IIIIIOIIAL FOil OT • ................................................................
MENS ROOM OF STEPAN CHEMISTRY 0 . .,. p_ (part one)
HERS, AS INAPPf\C)PNATIE TO Theology ....,.., "'-an.ndI .... 
HALL. THE RING IS GOLD WITH AN The wrong Oldemoblle -the aeventy-cent 
................................................................ 

THEil." A IIEUAGIE "IIROUQHT TO cl8l cllecullion with Faa.. John
AQUA STONE AND BEARS THE INI­PENGUIN LUST 10 axpedltion (which -dellnltely TIALS TAD "88. IF FOUND PLEASE 
FOR SALE YOU ay ST. TH~ AQUINAS AND Dunne, c.s.c, t-.F....,..-y 11, needed)-·-·em, Buckyl-They looowve
................................................................ 

aY GAYS & Lu.ANS AT NDISIIC, at 10:00 Pllln 141 o·.....-y.
CALL TOMAT3556. mel-We don't carelboul your Marquette 
PREQNANT? 

P.O.IIOX 114, NOTIIE DAilE, IN 4tlllll. ................................................................ 
partiM; you're atiN loHra -peychedellcNIEIEDHI!l.P? 
Fllhii"H........,., C.8.C.

LOST: ONE PAIR WHITE WEIGHT LIF· Aj;pi;"i"ii·-;;;;,r,~;;,·:·;;56i<"~j;;~;i;d";;;;;;: penquln vldao -d alcohoiiC8 order chiN
Call 234-o383. 24-hr. hodlne, counl1811ng 
wll.,.....on

TING GLOVES. SOUTH OUAO OR ACC fig. Heba Syaleme Integrated aoltware. & lree pregnancy teslll. and milk -no, Mark. you clon"l pick up
Thlal1n"t rNI/ty, th/1/a the eum. "A Chflatlan Appnlllll ol the Crllle In
30JAN PLEASE CALL CHRISTINE 3784 Applecate contract through! Septerrber WOllEN'S CARE CENTEII Spanlllh-apeaklng Italian Wllllr-by
-Gomer SouthAfrtiCII" ~pe~ldng Fr~-Nice button, Eric-"'Are1966. FOf mOfa delllle Cllll Muk at 239­Wectneedly, Flbru.-y 11,7:00 Pll you lllwaya the only one who laugha 11
7252. 

................................................................ H~Hal
a:u··;;c;iiaii·:··c:w·iiliER"·a··uauCiR-. your own ]okee?""
Your t.ckeloor to lllllylng allvel Al-L INVITI!DI
Found:PIIir ol ~~~-with bent. brown 
~~"ii"T~~ ..y~~ ..C~~ ..a~y·J~. tor $44 CAMY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1 (ally tuned . .. . ) 
lramM on wllik by edmln building. Cd through lhe U.S. Government? Gal the ILOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HOLDEII IN DUE COUIISE. ................................................................
x3352. 
,_ tOday! Clll 1-312-742-1142 LOOKOUT MEN OF NO,DI"S ANOTHER 
...................... THANK'YOU'MARY'AND'ST:JliDE'YOO
Ext.7318 . 
Y"O:UNCi"TiiAvlu:E"iia"Niiwa·mliii

LOST: s.DINiNG HALL. BLUE BACK­YEAR OLOER,WISER, AND WILOERI BETCHAS.P.U.
lndudall:800 no.; travel partner SMC Sexulli/ty Educ.tion Council Op­PARTY IT UPIHOW ABOUT ANOTHER . PACK WITH NOTEBOOK. TENNIS 

75-·F·;":r·s;;yd;.;:·iid·tr~~:·iid·~~~--eervlce~eaiUrM on exollc OVEIISEAS 
timlam -The Worat Contraceptive (What W~IRO THURS.? YOUR PARTY PAL,
SHOES. SWEAT PANTS. KEYS. To flay,
tir... mulfler. needl bodyworl<. c.U 283­
budget travel. work, aludyl Send check they ..-e. how they work, what they look KERRY 34'12 anytime ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N.. P.O. Box 3887. New lly klv•. beat lrlancl, .... ~ •PLEASE CALL283·25971F HAVE INFO. 
Hke) Wedneedly. Feb 19. 7:00 PM 
.,lclllncl couiiHior. You're everyth­
lf·y;··~ck~ ..~·p· my _.,..;~~:··~ Haven. CT. 06625 Sll(llalon lounge Klren Wlana and Ell A&B PRESENT: 
11111 llrl could Ilk tor. I rnlw you 10 llh~ end keep the cuh & piclurM ol my v.-ymuch.
Humeyer Facuhy Nuralng DIJ*Iment KIDNAPI
Fiii!iE·c:c;u·;;ON8i~u;-~·;;;;;;·;;; 

"'Oon'l c.uH trouble, and you won"l get the Clmpue Tellph-Directory. U..
elltota...bul ~ retum my drlver"a 
-r·1 NO woman

llcenM 10 thlt I c.n go oul a time Of two 
TICKETS lh.n!c*yl ................................................................ $1.09 end 4 bearl? Righi, Bill? RIGHT.
my lui aemeeter SeniOf y-. 
................................................................ Tq lhe two nlceel people I know bellde my BIFFII EEEEEEEEEEEEIIIII Loer:..oCilo..Ne·c:Ki:Ac"E..Win:t··;;e-N: 
p"a. I think lt"a great Oon"l worry lboul

CHIMES "88 Ia etiN accepting your 

POETRY, SHORT STORIES, & ART anything ella. -EN ;:~·~·.:;;;;n;:;;;;;;;;;;·;;;;:.·,--H;;p;·;;.
DANT THAT HAS DIAMONDS IN IT. IF 
................................................................ WORK for publlc.tion. NA eubmlulonelo 
HIEJDiaUNEK

FOUND PLEASE CALL 272.0253. can make It ov.-aoon 101' aome ahroorn
TopS 101' D1yton GAl. Cell John 2368. Max Weatler. 310 MAD., by Ma-ch 1 Kely Lull-can wego on our Wlllk now? -T HAPPY 19TH AND 1 DAY BIRTHDAY! 
REWARD I pizza & coke. Hll\le a grMt dllyl Lind lhe 
QIJACKIQUACKI

~---j;jfieo···:;···G"A;s···A"No·--;···s:rui:iei.il-grend. Mlchlle tha bell. C..lh• ~.
Thank you St. Jude -EM 

Loe:r·;z··cs·Wi·m-;·c;;;;;;·i~·;;;;y·bk;~ 
Nattharat. P.S.IIcouldh~belnlello­
TicKET FOA DAYTON. LET MY ................................................................ AtTENTION TOday at H.,_. ................................................................
"'*with 1 red llrlpe.end all<)' bale COlt) IUII coneldertng who we're dllllng wllh.
PARENTS SEE THE GAME. CALL2802 Thank you Sl. Jude 101' watching over me Healy.Rm.122 Henry Frigon and Vllllam the lrlllh eurfer 11 tired ol the m16-wlnl.­
al Clmpua VI-on Sal niW!t. A rewerdll 
AND ASK FOR DREW. and my f1tnlty. -PAG en, wiN be epealdng on "A Corporate 
bluea and ao Ia ND Chi~ Executive"a C..Study In Flnanclll SPRING BREAK FOREVER being ollered. Cell ROB-272-o828 Of 
Ia anyone going to Marquette/MIIwau­Mlke-272-2386. ~··;;;;d--:;-~·;;·u;~-o~Yi;;,:;·;;;;~:·c;;~ c:dt;;.·:·aa·A"iiE"Aili"~Mi<e··;;;;;··o-'v·;, lhla WMI<end? (2/21-2/23) I need a ride.
Slratagy." and "Regional lnveatment 
Rodx1788. FerdiMnd PleUe <*I Marglelt284-4425.
Banking" reepectlvaly. The timM ol lhe .............................................................. 
.................;................... pr-tion.,.., 4pm 1nd 7:30pm. There IIOaiE and PAJAIIA PAIITY ''''''''''''''''"'''''''"''''"''''"''''"''':.!'''".''"'''':'"­
,··;;;d";j""ii::k~~-(QA;;"p;;!;.:;;d)""i;··u;~ 
11 1n lnfOfmal reception alter each THUIISDAV NIGHT CLUa on COIIaY eongr.lulationa, Mike You Gol Mel love, Dayton game. PlaUe Cllll Dale x1657. prMenlation. Everyone II welcome. Melinda
c;;;;;;;·s;;;;·;;A:LS'f.\;;;;·&··;;AL·i~·c;.;i. 
on Feb.20 Tlckelll $20.00 In 309O"Shag.

ago. CIIII3782-KELLY
~==t== 
N;;;··;;;;iV··c;;.;·e--G"A··;;··o;p~~;:··p;;~ BfiA·o--~-·"R;c-;;:··i:c:;c;i;:;o··;;Ofiw-'Ro
You could have aaved my mediocre
N-;;·sii·;;,·~-.-~;·i;·s~ii;;u:·h;;·;;;~

LOST(;~·?)"G;j""~~:ii":;;;~.;·;;;; help! Connie 2768 SIAN IIUNSTEII Valendna"a Day Hyou'd liked me. Sure, TO A MEANINGFUL AND LASTING ollie end lola of tun. Thu.-day, February 
worth lhlt much. only ol high l«<llmental Jim uw you flrat, but...So Mk me to a RELATIONSH IPI All MY LOVE value. 1"-Cllll3810. R~ end no ANm.ttio.FoR"ii"o-'vroN.oA:scAii 20. 8:()()-10:15 p.m. II N.D. Ice Rln~ Ale you alive? movie lnll~ end 1"1 buy you a no-. FOREVER, YOU KNOW AT PERCENT 
quMtione Mked.Thanka. JOHN2180 FREE-FREE-FREE-FREE-FREE The nrat guy at the ncketSiub ·SWELLWHOI 
..
r 


The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 8 

Big upset keys SMC fencing wins over weekend 
SMC swimmers end regular season with an impressive loss to Albion 
ByANDREA LaFRENffiRE 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's swim team com­pleted its regular season on Saturday in Albion, Mich., where it lost a close meet to Albion College by a score of 60-53. 
The meet was the Belles' best of the season, according to head coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz. 
"This was our most exciting meet," she said. "Everyone was all fired up for it, and the competition was keen." 
The meet's outcome is somewhat misleading, according to Kuzmitz, as Saint Mary's dominated Albion in the majority ofthe swimming events. 

"We swept pretty much each event, finishing in the one and two, one and three, and two and three seedings," she said. "We won both relays, too." 
The 400-yard freestyle relay team of seniors Anne Cushing and Joyce Murtagh, junior Patty Juckniess and sophomore Meghan Rafferty took first place with a time of 4:02.71, while the team ofJuckniess, Rafferty, junior Margaret Mannion and fresh­man Tanya Reeves finished first in 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 
How sweet it was for the Saint Mar'y's fencing team as it went un­defeated over the weekend against California State (Pa. ), Carnegie Mel­lon, and Case Western Reserve. With the wins, the Belles raised their overall record to 12-7 this season. 
The Belles achieved their first vic­tory on Saturday when they defeated California State by a score of 9-7. There were two times in the meet when St. Mary's found itself down, 

Irish 

continuedfrompage 12 
Irish the lead when the teams went 
into the locker room for the first in­
termission as he scored at 15:24 
with assists from Thebeau and 
Reilly. 
The Golden Flashes forged a tie 
with the second period's only goal at 

9:02, Aldridge once again turning on 
the red light. But Reilly, playing 

despite the. injury, got the game­
winner in the third with assists from 
Matt Hanzel and Anquillace. 
"It was a total team effort," said 
Smith. "Not any individual really 
stood out. The entire team gave 
their all. But with Reilly only playing 
on a leg and a half and Whitmore on 
an arm and a half, you really have to 
take your hat offto them." 

The Irish will see if hockey and the desert sun mix when they travel to Phoenix for a weekend series with Northern Arizona. While the Lumberjacks' campus is in Flagstaff, they play their home games in Phoenix at Oceanside Arena. 

Huskies 
continuedfrompage 12 
everything now we won't have in­centive for next year." 
Notre Dame's men's and women's swim teams will be travelling to Evansville, Ind. this week. The women will be competing as the defending champions in the Northstar Conference champion­ships beginning tomorrow and con­tinuing through Saturday . 
the 200-yard medley relay with a 
time of2:04.69. 
Meghan Rafferty, a sophomore, placed first in the 50-yard freestyle event with a time of0:27.01. 
Cushing and Murtagh, co-captains 

for the Belles, performed especially 
well in their last collegiate meet, 
capturing first place in the 500-and 
100-yard freestyle events, 
respectively. 
"Both seniors put in a fine perfor­mance for us," Kuzmitz said. "Anne swam the 500-free in 5:59.18, and Joyce finished the 100-free in I:00.61." 
Cushing and Murtagh each had a second-place finish for the Belles, as well. Cushing swam the 1 000-yard freestyle event in 12:21.1 5, while Murtagh completed the 200-yard freestyle event in 2:07.03. 
Other second-place finishers for Saint Mary's include Rafferty, who swam the 100-yard backstroke event in 1:07.47 and}ucknless, who completed the 50-yard freestyle event in 0:27.85. 
In addition, Tanya Reeves, a fresh­man, finished the 200-yard in­dividual medley in second place with a time of 2:31.90, while Man­nion took second place in the 1 00­
once at 4-1, and again at 5-2. But determinination was key to their comeback, putting £he Belles on the winning track for the remainder of the day. 
Shannon Maughan enabled the team to pull out the upset over California State. Fencing in the last · position, she surprised her op­ponent and came away with a 3-1 record. 
"Shannon helped out a lot," said head coach Mike Weeks. "She was a standout in the meet which later led us to a victorious weekend. 
The University 
A Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 

Shakespeare
Theatre production 

__.., __Inion
with 1\ohcn Stonnont a.'> Pn >S!X. 't'> 
SummerEmployment 
Large resort on east entrance to Glacier National Park seeking student employees for 1986 season including waiters, waitresses, front desk, bar help clerks, kitchen help, service stations and maintenance. 
Representatives will be interviewing Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17and 18, from 9am to 5pm in the Career and Placement Services office. Please sign up for appointment. 
For off-campus, Sunday appointments, Feb. 16, please contact Sean Pieri 283-2175. 
yard breaststroke event with a time 
of I:l7.62. 
The 200-yard medley relay team of junior Mary Fisher, sophomore Jennifer Veselik and freshmen Jen­nifer Burke and Anne Marie Wolf also placed second with a time of 2:16.46. 
Juckniess finished third in the 1 00-yard backstroke event, Burke placed third in the 200-yard freestyle event and Reeves took third in the 1 00-yard buttertly event. 
Saint Mary's fell behind Albion in the diving competition, where fresh­man diver Bridget Murphy's 1 I 1.25 points were not enough to surpass the totals of the three entries from Albion. 
Kuzmitz was quick to point out, however, that her team's perfor­mance was exceptional. 
"A lot of the swimmers lowered their qualifying times for Nationals, so I think we have a really strong chance ofplacing high at that meet," she said. 
Although the team's regulae season is completed, it is practicing daily in preparation for Nationals, scheduled for March 6-9 in Spokane, Wash. 
"The team never gave up. It was an important win, their best win ever." 
Saint Mary's dominated in its fol­lowing two meets against Carnegie Mellon and Case Western Reserve. The team won each bout with identical scores of I 2-4. 
Leading the Belles was captain Mary Beth Proost with a 4-2 mark. Ann Raney continued her consistant play in achieving an 8-3 record. Fol­lowing were teammates Becca Bar­nett, Maughan, and Laura Hartis with 4-2,9-2, and 5-2 decisions. 


APPboto 
Livingstone Bramble celebrates after stopping challenger Tyrone Crawley tn the 13th round during their WBA lightweight tttlefight Sunday tn Reno. 
Weeks brought another novice along this past weekend also. Carol Mahony was able to score a 3-4 slate. 
"Each time we allow different novices to travel so they will gain ex­perence," said Weeks. "Carol fenced well and as a freshman, shows poten­tial. 
"The team has been training hard all season and the improvement shows. I attribute that to the team unity and spirit. It is a good feeling." 
The final tournament for the Belles this season will take place in East Lansing, Mich. There the Belles 
ND/SMC Theater announces ... Orchestra Auditions for West-Side Story 
Monday. Feb. J 7 and Tuesday. Feb. 18 7-9pm Room SOB Moreau Hall. SMC 
Needed: Brass, Winds, and Strings Bring a prepared piece You will be asked to sightread something from the sho111 


The Observer 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
1986-87 Business Manager and Managing Editor 
Applications must be submitted to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Friday, February 21, 1986. 
The Observer 3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
will open on Friday night against Wayne State. Continuing in the meet on Saturday, Saint Mary's will face Michigan State, University of Mic­higan, and Oakland University. 
"I hope that the team continues to 
keep its record above the .500 
mark," noted Weeks. "They have 
worked hard and come along well 
this season. 
"East Lansing isn't far from here so maybe some students will be able to come support us. That usually gives the team a boost." 

.. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 9 


Improving ND gymnasts tripped up by Purdue 
A small but supportive crowd turned out for the ND Gymnastics Club's first home meet ofthe season. In a close battle with Purdue, both the men and women showed much Improvement, but came up short against the Boiler­makers. 
The men stayed with the Boilermakers through much of the meet, but they spotted Purdue too many points In the horse and the parallel bars. The final score was 118.6 · I 1 0. 7 In favor of the Boilermakers. 
"We definitely improved this meet," said Club President Jim Ciesil. "At the meet in Miami we lost to Purdue by 10, but this time we only lost by seven points." 
Celsil turned In one ofthe strongest performances ofthe meet In the floor exercise. His score of 8.0 was good enough for second place In that event. 
"The floor is my best routine," he said. "I still want to work on It and Iron out some ofthe bugs." 
Paul Nowak was the only gymnast to compete In the 
all-around for the Irish. His score of 39.0 for six events left 
him In second place, two-tenths ofa point behind Rob Hen­
thorn of Purdue. 
Nowak scored an Impressive 8.8 in the vault to take first place In that event. He also finished fourth in the floor ex· ercise with a score of 7.7, and he placed third In the high bar with a 6.6. 
Matt Sennett also was a key contributor to the cause, winning the high bar with a 7.4 and taking third with a strong performance on the horse. Mike Downing won the rings with a score of5.9, and Francis Sverdrup placed third in the vault with an 8.5. 
The women also stayed with Purdue the entire meet, and actually believed they would win the meet until the results from the balance beam were announced. The Boilermakers outscored the Irish in the beam by 2.3 points and won the meet, 79.4 · 76.7. 
Michelle Broussard gave another strong performance, placing second In the all-around with a score of 29.4 for four events. She won the uneven bars with a score of 7.8, and she took second In the floor exercise and in the beam. Her chances for first in the all-around were hurt when her second run on the vault was disallowed. 
MSU's Skiles will go to jail 
LANSING, Mich. · Michigan State basketball player Scott Sidles has agreed to serve 30 days in jail at the end of the college season for break­Ing probation on a drug convictior:t. a newspaper and TV station reported. 
Sidles, a senlor.guard for the Spar­tans and one of the nation's leading collegiate scorers, would serve the 30-day term at the end of the 1985· 86 season under the tentative agree­ment with Indiana authorities, according to reports Sunday by the Flint journal and WILX·TV in Lan· sing. 
Last week, Sidles' attorney, Charles Scruggs of Kokomo, Ind., said two weeks oftalks with Marshall County Prosecutor Fred jones had produced an agreement on punish· ment for Skiles. Scruggs did not say whether Skiles would spend any time In jail. 
Sidles, 21, was arrested In Plymouth In August 1984 on cocaine and marijuana charges. He pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of possession of marijuana, a mis· demeanor, and last April was given a one-year suspended sentence and fined SIOO.. 
Skiles also was ordered to perform 120 hours ofcommunity service and placed on one·year probation. 
Jones moved to revoke Sidles' probation after East lansing police arrested Skiles in November on drunken driving charges. 


Queen's Castle 
& The Knights 

$5student $8.50 cumplet cut style 
MINUtES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women Included tool 

We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Ceater See a tan in minute• ...Not Hour• lronw od & St. Road 23 (Aero.. From Martin'•) 
;J.'UdVf!Ddt~ 
JPW Registration 
Cffw.uday, 6 -10 pm .£a.9o'tturu cdVew cD.Je.anj. d?oom '.J.r.iky, {}am -8pm .£a.9o'tturu cdVew cD.Je.am. d?oom c§a.tuul.a.y, 4 -8 pm diCC En.te.'t th.tough. §a.te 10 
Please Bring your J.D. You oryour parents may register 
Pete. Gegen 
Club Corner 


"I messed up on the run and touched the board," she said. "I thought you were safe until you touched the horse, but I guess I was wrong." 
Megan ZiUig also did well, taking third in the ftoor ex· erclsc:, the vault, and the unparallel bars. And Maureen Durkin placed fourth In the vault and fifth In the ftoor ex· erclsc:. 
"Maureen tumbled very strong," said Sandy Vanslager, an advisor to the team. "She hit her front pass which she had been practicing on this past week." 
The Purdue team was carried by one gymnast, Becky Gallagher. She placed first In every event except the un­parallel bars. 
The club now has two weeks to prepare for a triangular meet with Purdue and Miami (Ohio). Head Coach Rich John knows what It will take to beat Purdue in their third and final match. 
"We have to really work on routines in practice," he said. "We have to clean them up and keep them free of mistakes." 
• 
The ND Ski team hoped to end its season on a high note this past weekend at the National Qualifying meet at Mar· queue Mountain. Instead, the note was slightly lower as the team sided well, but was unable to qualify anyone for nationals. 
Club President John O'Donovan was the top men's performer, placing In the top 20 in the giant slalom Satur· day. Chris Simonet also did well for the men. 
Against some sti.IJ competition, Kathy Skendzel took sixth in the slalom and ninth in the giant slalom, but failed to qualify for nationals. Laurie Shea and Jane Heisel also skied well. The official team results for the women's, as well a5 the men's races, were not available. 
• 

Last Friday the ND women's Track Club traveled to Yp· 
silanti, Mich., to participate In the Huron Open. Julia 
Merkel was very impressive, taking fourth in the 1500 and 
seventh In the 1000. 
"Julia ran a fantastic meet," said head coach Dan Ryan. 
"The 1500 and the 1000 Is a tough double." 
Personal bests were recorded by Maureen O'Leary In the 
500-meter run and by Nancy Loughlin in the 1500-meter 
run. And the 1600-meter relay team of Merkel, O'Leary, 
Christine Dragani, and Kathleen Lehman chopped almost 
eight seconds off their previous best time. 
'I worked them really hard up to the race," said Ryan. "I didn't expect great times, but they surprised me, especially Julia." 
The team will finish up Its season at Ann Arbor, Mich., this weekend as It participates In the Sllverston Invitational track meet. 
• 

You can say it was tests or illness, but Ed Abt has the real explanation for the Volleyball Club's play In the three matches at the ACC this past week. 
"We played like····," said the club President. 
On Wednesday, the Irish dropped the match to Calvin College (not to be confused with Calvin Coolidge) after winning the first two games. Friday's match against Purdue appeared to be headed for the same result, as Notre Dame took the first two games and dropped the third and fourth. But the Irish held on to win the fifth game and the match. 
Saturday afternoon the team won the first game against Wisconsin, and was up 14-11 In the second, but ended up dropping the second game, 16-14, and losing the match in four games. 
Things can only get better, right? They had better for the sake of the team because Notre Dame must face Ball State and Ohio State, both top-20 teams. 
APPIIoto 

Pittsburgh's Demetrius Gore attempts to pull the ball awayfrom an opponent tn a game earlier tbts year. Last ntgbt, Gore's Panthers fell to Syracuse, 69-62. A story on the game appears on page 7, wbtle the newAP basketball poll can befound on page 12. 
...............•.....,.........• 


: SENIORS... 
• trip to
•

• RUSH STREET 
•

• Saturday. Februuv22
•

• SIGN UP TONIGHT! 
•
•

• 
6 -8pm in the Senior Class Office, 

• 
1.5 Ooor LaFortune


•
•

• Bring $10 for round trip motor coach :
• 

: Bus leaves CCE at 6pm : • on SAT. Feb. 22 • 
: 
: 
: : 
•
•
•
•
• 

Poll 

continued/rom page 12 
Michign, Kentucky, and Syracuse 
moved as a pack as the three were 
1Oth, 11th and 12th, respectively In 
last week's voting. 
Michigan, 22·3 and 847 points, handled two Big Ten Conference teams easily as they downed Min· nesota, 92·56, and Iowa, 82-66, while Kentucky, 22·3 and 784 points, registered a big Southeastern Conference road victory, 73·71, at then-No. 18 Alabama. Syracuse, 20· 3, received 678 point, 20 more than Oklahoma (23·3), which fell to Mis· sour!, 1 0 1·88. 
Nevada-Las Vegas, sixth last week before losing to Cal-Irvine, 99·92, leads the Second ten followed by Bradley, Georgetown, Notre Dame, Indiana, Louisville, Navy, Virginia Tech, Michigan State and North Carolina State. 
APTopT-, 
The Top Tw.rty college.,.._..,.. ,..,.In The ~,_POl. wllll fll811)1ece •-Inper.n­111-. IIlia ~·• reconlllllld loc.l polnll. Polnla bMed on 20-11H8·17 etc. Nolno Dame ClppO<Mnla ••ltltlcJzed. 
1. No. Cato/1,.,. (82) 
1,240 2. Duke 1.171 3. !<..-1.087 •. Memp/11181. 1.017 
5. a-glaTech 11110 8. 8t.John"l 1128 7. Mlchigln 1147 a. Kentud<y 7114 II. S'(recuH 1178 
1o. Oldehomll 668 11. UNI.V 837 12. ar.ley 1583 13. a-getown 4711
...
14. NonDIMM 

15. /lldl-421 18. LDuilvlle 327 17.~ 100 
18. Vlrglnl• Tech Ill Ill. r.llc:l9n 81. 114 
20. N. C. Stille 1111 

The Proof 
Is In 
the Taste! 

Opea Moa-Sat 11 ••

s-••• 
Plua-Sandwlch~-Sala«U 
Beer& Wine 277-2020 i.oefded I• Roa.,.•ll (N..ttolla•,.,. 
I j I j j 
I I 
'I 
j j 
f 

J 
.I 
I I I I I 


The Observer Tuesday, February 18, 1986 -page 10 
Confident freshman 

Toney shows she has ''the right stufr' 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI Sports Writer  "In high school, we played zone defense so I did not have to work," said Toney. "Here I had to adjust to  The Chicago area is traditionally strong in women's basketball, and many players from there end up  and a National Championship is al­ways possible if we push each ot­her."  
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team has received important production from its freshman class this season, and one of those young impact players has been 5-9 guard Diondra Toney. "She has made a successful transi­ man-to-man defense, and now I ac­tually enjoy it. "In our defense, you are not al­ways on your man, but you have to keep an eye on the ball and on the man. You have to help and recover. And when the offense sets screens  playing at major universities, some of which play Notre Dame. Toney said that her greatest accomplish­ment in high school was leading Whitney Young to the Harold Was­hington Holiday Tournament cham­pionship as a junior, gaining  Toney appreciates the patience DiStanislao has had with her. "She stayed with me when I had trouble adjusting. She would put no pressure on me, saying 'relax and do what you do best.' Recruiting was an educational ex­ 
tion to the college game," said Notre Dame head coach Mary DiStanislao. "She operates well both at point guard and in the backcourt. She complements Mary Gavin in that they both are good passers, good defensive players, and improving shooters.  and hedges, you have to get through them." As a second team Parade All­American, Toney led Whitney Young High School (Chicago) to the USA Today's Super 25. The training and concentration in basketball in high school was intense and  all-tourney honors. "I want to become the best defensive player on the. team," said Toney. "I want to be recognized as the most versatile player. I can rebound well, while I can also play point or true guard. "As a team, we definitely should  perience for Toney. "Notre Dame was the last thing on my mind, in fact I already had chosen my limit of five schools (Ohio State, Texas, Maryland, and Long Beach State) before they ap­proached me. "Soon I realized that education  
"The best pan of her game is her confidence. She is a good rebounder, makes few turnovers, and has made some important shots for us."  sometimes overwhelming for her. "We played practically year­round, with holiday and summer tournaments," said Toney. "It ran me down, and it became a job. Here  win the North Star Conference as we improve with every game. Our con­sistency is improving because everyone knows their roles, and the freshmen have learned from their  was most important here. You have to work if you want a degree, no gifts, no babying. At other schools, all they know is basketball, and they take easy classes. Very good players  
As is the case with most freshman, the conversion to the collegiate game was difficult at the beginning. "In high school we were in shape, but here the players are so physical, and I had to really get on the weights and build stamina," said Toney. The area where Toney has made her greatest progress, though, is defensive play.  we do not practice every day oc­casionally, and we have summer to ourselves. "In the off season, I will work out on my own, and build my physical strength. I play pick-up games with the high school and college players at home. They accepted me once tbey saw that I did not play like one ofthe girls."  mistakes and game experience. "For us to win, Sandy (Botham) must rebound well, Trena (Keys) and Lynn (Ebben) must score, Mary (Gavin) has to have assists, and Lavetta (Willis) must play good defense. It is a team effort. "In the next few years," Toney continued. "we will have just a great team. We can become explosive,  were very screwed up. "Trena and Lavetta were big reasons why I came here. I took that . chance of being the only black girl on the team, adjusting and being comfortable with my situation. I do not see it as a big influence." But Notre Dame fans already are seeing the influence of Diondra Toney on the Irish program.  


"LO THE ffootltlmesr RoLL(' WE have tt-ne~ M£11111 ANb Low PR1f!.E.3 j S_e~c,i'a.l SaviiVG:s oAt 11~;1uES AAIIJ Was) •1~ 11.! ~1~ 
NEW! &PAGHETTI /JJJJNER"'IGr.u/ie~ 
It~ YOtl~ 11EifrBALL $AIIt.WICH, J.dlsc_ lfeJ.J.aJJ..s, ~ 
OA ti. t),u,se ~ 011/f OliN S Ptf!/4( /bf$1'IJ£E.F WITH ef((AH/ Iralfo, $A«e. cwi()IIS q,J {./,ee5t •AI.L&~nJwtchu SEAIIED 011 BIJI+aliCN 8uN8 o,//c--. w1+1t O.ips··~~ 

~;.:'1883, 
Tbc Oblervcr/HIIJIDCI Hacker 

Freshman guard Diondra Toney (left) and teammate Lavetta Willis fight for the boards in a match earlier this year. Toney bas 2-1~,1~ acclimated herself well to the college game after a highly successful prep career. Mike Szymanski features the Chicago native in his ~-ztt,2.5._2.6 


Replace Lost, Damaged, 
or Discolored Lenses at a 
Fraction of their Original 
Cost! 
*Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsol 
•American 
Hydron •Aosolt 

• 
Bausch & Lomb •Cibasolt •Durasolt 


$41,93 pair 
* Tinted Lenses 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Cibasoft Colors 


563.97 pair 
'htOflllod W-IOIIHI 
•AOSoltcon $57/pr 
•Bausch & Lomb $45/pr •CooperVision Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $97/pr •Durasolt 3 $57/pr •GeneSIS 4 $SS/pr • Hydrocurve $75/pr. 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE. SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 
Ir-------------,
Date --··--_ 
I Dear Doctor 1 Pteas.e send m• a copy ot m-y latest soft 
I contact tens ~Kropt•on Please compt•le 
I ~~ =~ ';~~~ n .00" a& possoble Tnanll 
I
:------,..,-,,.-ntS,o,ature---­
.."c.,...,
1 
:R ··~ 
1'-­1 .. 
I o.•-·•· w.... IR ---­1, 
lu~•..~~~.:11 £•••~oeoffl•· 
I -----------­
F•ller"s Sognature
L 
All lenses guaranteed first quality, ond are supplied In lhe original lactorysealed vials. 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
I Acourre your comprere contact len~ prescnpt1on 2 Complete the order t>etow 3 Make check money order or 
complete credtl card tnformaton pay a· ble to CLS. 1nc 4 Enc.tose name address & phone number w1tn order 5 Matt at! tnformd!IOn to. 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Carter Rd. Cleveland, Ohio 44139 216/248-2416 
"Contact Lens Suppliers lor 25 years.·· 
Please send ___pairs at only __a pair. UNO 
• Total for letlsos 
2 00
• 
Shipping & Handling _.::;·.::;::..__ 

• 
Total 


Ihave enclosed total payment in the following manner: 
-__check _money order 
VISA . _ MasterCanl 
(Personal Checks must be cleared PriOr to shipment) 
O.,.Acct...,_______ 
b~----------­
•
·-No single lens orders please. 

•We 
will.eep oJJ prescriptions on file for reorders. 



------------------~»W»W -------~-------­



~4(Jt~C3t~---------------------------------------T_u_e_s_d.ay•'-F-eb_ru ~._l_s_,_1_9_8_6_-p_a_g_e_l
__ __l 
Bloom County 

Zeto 

The Daily Crossword 

ACROSS 1 Verdi heroine 5 Stack 9 Stupefy 
14 Blockhead 15 Put to flight 16 Wanderer 17 Sidewalk game 19 Construction 
machine 20 Seth's mother 21 Floral perfume 
oll:var. 22 Selected 23 Famous 
streetcar 25 National 
characteristic 27 Svelte 29 Bacchanal 33 Charisma 37 Expert 38 Thought: pref. 39 San Francisco 
hill 40 Letter opener 41 Finale 42 Nutmeg State 46 Shine forth 46 Kind 49 Crosshatched 
designs 51 Dress In Hllo 55 Nursery Items 58 Supplies guns 60 -and outs 61 Ofsound 62 Reversal 64 Be at anchor 65 Col. group 66 Sharif 67 City on the 
Ruhr 68 Docile 69 Tear 
DOWN 1 Yearned 2 "-a Parade" 3 Fools 4 Paid notices 5 Dietary 
essential 6 Jot 7 Monetary gain 8 Numerical 
ending 
e1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/18/86 All Rights Reserved S l ,
Monday's o utwn 
9 Salad 
Ingredient 10 Sullen 11 Amo follower 12 AuthorGrey 13 Home lor 20A 18 Sophia's 
spouse 22 Atkins or Huntley 24 "This­
sudden!" 26 Indian groups 28 Supplied a 
craw 30 Secular 31 Light color 32 Remainder 33 Wharf 
2/18/86 

34 Ferber 35 Foxx 45 Have faith In 55 Ashen 36 Actor Chaney 47 Light 56 San -Obispo 40 In -(place 50 Native Israeli 57 Summer drinks 
phrase) 52 Dolphins' 59 Meander 42 Comic strip city 62 Opposite 43 Regretful miss 53 Open a bottle of fora 44 Travel to work 54 Addicts 63 In favor of 
Berke Breathed 
Kevin Walsh 

Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "Political Culture in Mexico and Chile," Prof. Larissa Lomnitz, Uni­versity of Mexico, Room 131 Declo, Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and the Dept. ofAnthropology 

•12:10 
P.M. -Art Noontalk, "Artist and Models: Portraits from the Hirshhorn Museum," Stephen Spiro, Snite Museum, Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery, Snite Museum 

•3:30 
P.M.· Compudng Minicourses, MAIL: Room 23 Computing Center and Nota Bene Wordprocessing, Part 1: Room 104 Comput­ing Center 

•4:00 
P.M. · Presentadon, "A Corporate Chief ·Executive's Case Study in Financial Strategy," Henry R Frigon, Room 122 Hayes­Healy, Sponsored by Finance Club 


Notre Dame 
Baked Ham Beef Bourguignon Rolled Spanish Omelet Tuna Muffin with Cheese 

TV Tonight 
7:01) P.M.  16  MASH  
:z:z  Three's Company  
:Z8  Jeopardy  
:Z8  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
:z:z  WKRP In Cincinnati  
:Z8  Wheel ofFortune  
8:00P.M.  16  TheA-Team  
:z:z  Melba  
:Z8  Who's the Boss  
34  NOVA: "The Case of the Luclcy  
Stilt"  
8:30P.M.  :z:z  CharUe&Co.  
:Z8  Growing Palns  
46  SkyUte Cavalcade  

In God's den. 

•4:30 
P.M. -Seminar, "Gills and Lungs: Non­respiratory Functions of Respiratory Organs," Dr. Ken Olson, South Bend Center for Medical Education, Room 283 Galvin Ufe Science Center, Sponsored by the Dept. of Biology 

•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, AIESEC, Room 222 Hayes-Healy 

•7:00 
P.M. · Catholic Faith Program, "What Catholics Should Know About the Church and Papacy," Father Tom O'Meara, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 

•7:30 
P.M. · Presentadon, "Regional Invest­ment Banking," William Ellis, Piper, jalfray & Hopwood, Room 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Finance Club 

•7:30 
P.M.· Movie, "Union Pacific," Annen­berg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Tuesday Night Film Series, 

•8:30 
P.M. · Cabaret Night, Shenanigans, Senior Alumni Club, Sponsored by Student Ac­


tivities 

Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Baked Meatloaf Turkey Divan Bean Tostadas Ham & Cheese Omelet 

9:00P.M. 
10:00P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
16 
:z:z 
:Z8 34 
46 
16 :Z8 34 
46 
16 
:z:z 
:Z8 

Academy of Country Music Reunlon CBS Tuesday Night Movie: "One Terrific Guy" Moonlighting Odyssey: "Ongka's Big Moka" LeseaAIIve Remington Steele Spenser: For Hire Northern Ireland: At the Edge of theUnlon Dwightlbompson 
NewsCenter 16 Eyewitne!!ll News Nc:wswatch 28 
... 


...locattb ntxt to tltt Wicktt l'tu1t anb W~t C!ttllar in 


.....------~------oc-----------­
Tuesday, February 18, 1986-page 12

S~orts 
Hockey team wins pair on road at Kent State 
ByDENNIS CORRIGAN knee. Not much later, Steve Sports Writer Whitmore injured his knee. Worse, the Irish were losing 1-0 as Kirk 
How a team handles adversity is a Aldrige scored for the Golden direct measure ofa team's character. Flashes. Judging by this weekend's results, Reilly and his teammates fought the Notre Dame hockey team has a back, however, with Reilly himself lot of character, as it swept a tying the score at 8:15 on a power weekend road seriesfrom Kent State play. The Golden FtilShes regained by scores of 5-3 and 3-2. the lead at 11:26 of the first on a 
With several players out because score by Chris Barker. But 18 of injuries or the flu, it would have seconds later, co-captain Dave been easy for the team to roll ove-r Waldbillig knotted the score at 2 and play dead, especially consider-with an assist from fellow co-captain ing recent performances. But put-Bob Thebeau. The Irish went ahead ting those behind them, the Irish for good on a goal by Tom Mooney (9-17-1) grouped together for the at the 18:13 mark. victories, leaving Head Coach Lefty A second-period tally by Thebeau Smith very satisfied. and a goal at 3:34 ofthe third by Rich 
"This weekend was probably the Sobilo rounded out the Irish scoring. most pleased that I've been in the Kent State's Tim Carlson completed last couple of years," Smith said. the scoring when he tallied at the "Between the Army series and 11:26 of the final stanza. Marc Guay practice, we had lost a lot ofplayers, stopped 26 shots for the victory. and Kent State had built this series Saturday's game was similar to up as the highlight oftheir season. So Friday's. Kent State once again going into a hostile environment jumped out to an early lead when 
The ~m-lfKki. with people who are regulars bur-Aldrige scored with tbe game only A Notre Dame bockey player scrambles for the season. Dennis Corrigan details the Irlsb weellend ting, I was a little apprehensive as to 43 seconds old. Thebeau tied the puck In front of the net In a game earlier tbls sweep ofKent State In bls story at rlgbt. what kind ofa response we'd get." game at the 9:30 point of the Matters appeared to get worse for opening period with an assist from 
5

Irish women swimmers drop weekend meet ~~~~ :r~S:~~-~;~~~e;~~h~ Mark::;:;;,;~:i:iggavethe
ofthe everung, T1m Reilly mJured h1s 
as they fail to keep pace with ~eep NIU unit ND fencers Sullivan, Hynes 
BySCOTI INGLIS the Irish women. the 200-yard backstroke. • • • Sports Writer "It is mentally tough to win sev~n Meanwhile, Cochiolo, a steady 
meet In "real" competition
of the first 14 events and yet still performer for the women all year, The Notre Dame women's swim look at the score and see you are be-had the winning times in the 1 00­team traveled to Northern Illinois hind by 10 points," noted Welsh. yard and 200-yard breaststroke 
against Molly, but also nerve­University Saturday hoping for its "But you have to give Northern 11-events, in times of 1:11.70 and ByTRISH SULLIVAN racking," said the Peabody, Mass.,
ninth victory ofthe season but were linois credit. They lost a tough meet 2:35.14, respectively. Sports Writer native. "Either way I would have worn down by the depth of the last week, but rallied back on Satur-"They have been swimming well During practice, players get a been happy because we were as­Huskies, finally losing 82-58. Al­day against us." for us all year long,"said Welsh. "In chance to improve their skills by surred of bringing back a first and athough the score does not indicate Although the Irish cannot be fact, Vanette has not lost a 200-yard competing against each other. But second."
it, the meet was extremely close, credited with a victory, they cer-breaststroke event since the first it's all done in fun and no one feels "It was different to actually com­with the Irish women turning in tainly had their share ofbright spots meet ofthe year. When they get into they have to beat their opponent. pete against Janice because I knew some fine performances before the on the day. One such highlight was the water, we. know we can expect Well the tables were turned slightly her style and she knew mine," added day was over. the performance turned in by sop-strong swims." 
this past weekend when two Notre Sullivan. "I knew we would come "It was a heckuva meet, an ex­homore Amy Darlington, who was a A further note of encouragement Dame fencers found themselves away with the top two honors, but I tremely close meet,"said Irish coach triple winner for Notre Dame, swim-for Notre Dame was the season-best competingagainst each otherfor the really wanted this badly. I had gottenTim Welsh. "On another day, the ming her best meet of the year. Dar-time in the 200-yard medley relay gold medal in the Junior Olympics, the under-16 category but I wanted results could have been very dif­lingtod' took first place in the time of 1:54.8. 
held in Minneapolis, Minn. the under-20 title." 
ferent. As it was, however, the meet 1 000-yard, 500-yard, and the 200-Despite these efforts, the loss to Other women competing in the 
was decided on team depth. (The yard freestyle events, a grueling the deeper Huskie team drops the Molly and were junior
Sophomore Sullivan tournament Vittoria Huskies) were strong and deep." combination that totals the most Irish record to 8-3 after this last dual­freshman Janice Hynes made it Quaroni, who finished in the top 20, Even so, the meet was not decided possible yards that an individual cao meet of the season. The loss, through the double-elimination and freshmen Brenda Leiser and 
until the 15th event of the day, the swim in a meet. In addition, Dar· however, does not put a damper on Kristin Kralicek, who made it among
tournament only to face each other 
400-l.M., which was won by Nor­lington's time of 11:05.50 in the the fine women's season, and Welsh 
for the title. Sullivan, who has com­the top 32 fencers. 
thern Illinois in a time of 4:49.97. 1 000-yard freestyle was her best feels the experience will prove 
peted in three previous Junior The Irish also sent some Prior to that crucial race, the Irish time ofthe year. beneficial in the future. 
Olympics and was a champion in the representatives from the men's had hung close, placing first in seven Other outstanding performances "We were prepared, swam well, 
under-16 category, showed that squad. Freshmen Derek Holeman ofthe previous 14 races and trailing for the Irish were given by senior and will look forward to swimming 
winning form again by coming out met with the most success so far, as 1 
the Huskies by just 10 points. Nor­Venette Cochiolo and sophomore against them next year. We have ac­on top, 8-4. Hynes owns her share of he made it to the second round thern Illinois had built its small lead Barbara Byrne. Byrne, although complished so much this year, but 
Junior Olympic experience also, before being eliminated. Two mem­on the strength ofsecond-and third­finishing a close second in each case, like I told the girls, if we accomplish competing in three, but this year's bers of the epee team, freshmen Ted place finishes won primarily be­turned in her fastest times of the· was the best finish thus far. Fay and Todd Griffee, were cause ofits advantage in depth over year swimming in the I 00-yard and see HUSKIES, page 8 "It was a lot of fun competing scheduled to compete last night. 
Irish stay at 14th 
I 
J
Carolina is No. 1 again j 
l 
night and bounced back Sunday af. ternoon for a 75-74 victory over North Carolina, unanimous as No. then-No. 14 Notre Dame. 
..... 
I for the second straight week and Kansas, 24·3, held third with fourth time this season, led the As­1,087 points, 70 more than sociated Press Top Twenty yester­Memphis State (23-2). Georgia day as the top five teams remained Tech, 19-4, rounded out the Top five the same as last week. with 960 points. 
The Tar Heels, who received 62 The remainder ofthe Top Ten was first-place votes and 1,240 points St. John's, Michigan, Kentucky, from the nationwide panel of Syracuse and Oklahoma. .... sportswriters and broadcasters, St. John's, 24-3 and 928 points, have been in the top spot for each of moved up one spot from last week's the 13 polls since the regular season ranking as the Redmen beat then­began. North Carolina, which beat No. 9 Georgetown, 60-58, on the Clemson, 79-64, in its onlygame last road and won their 21st straight week and improved its record to 25-home game, 74-75, over Connec­1, was behind only Georgia Tech in ticut. The Redmen's ranking is their the preseason poll. highest of the season and they are 
Duke, 25-2, survived a tough the only team not ranked in the Tile~/ Pile l'bolo weekend to hold on to the No.2 spot preseason poll to crack the Top Ten with 1,171 points. The Blue Devils this season. '" Two Notre Dame fencers square off In practice compete against eacb other In an actual boutat the ~at then-No. 17 North Carolina see POLL, page 9 earlier tbls year. Over the weekend Irlsb fencers junior Olympics. Trlsb Sullivan describes the State, 72·20, on the road Saturday Molly Sullivan andjanice Hynes got tbe chance to results In her story above. 




