
---------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------~----------~~~~----~------------------------~ 
Knight service-page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 45 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Democrats gain 
control of Senate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Democrats, picking off GOP seats around the nation on Tuesday, broke the Republicans' six-year hold on the Senate and served notice on President Reagan that his last two years in office will re­quire "the art of government by compromise." 
Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole of Kansas conceded at midnight that the Democrats would win control of the Senate. 
"Oh yeah, it's a question of whether it will be 53 or 55" Democrats, he said. 
Meanwhile, in Indiana's third congressional district, Democratic candidate and 1970 Notre Dame graduate Tom Ward, defeated third-term Re­publican congressman ·John Hiler. 
Democrats harvested Re­publican seats in Maryland and Florida and were leading nar­rowly in half a dozen more states. 
"It could be 55-45 or 53-47. We just lost a couple," said a dejected Dole. 
As for a possible new direc­tion for the Senate under the Democrats, Dole said, "I think it's up to Sen. (Robert) Byrd to make that judgment." 
U.S. Senate Roundup 
,_____,I '-----''
Democrat 
Undecided or Uncontested 

Byrd, D-W.Va., currently the minority leader, earlier had predicted that the Democrats would regain control of the Sen­ate for the first time in six years and that he would be­come majority leader. 
Rep. Barbara Mikulski won handily in Maryland's two­woman race, picking up a seat vacated by a retiring Republi­can. 
Democrats looked for vic­tories in North Carolina and Georgia, two seats where the television networks said GOP incumbents would fall. And an ABC poll showed Timothy Wirth running strongly for the Colorado seat of fellow Demo­crat Gary Hart. 
Hunt's victory in Alabama's gubernatorial election came as the Republicans sought to in­crease their roster of gover­nors from the current 16 to · parity at 25. 
Republican Rep. John McKernan Jr. led in the race to become Maine's governor, an­other state where the Demo­crat was stepping aside. The situation was the same in Oklahoma, where former Sen. Henry Bellmon was leading in his bid to replace a Democrat in the statehouse. 
see SENATE, page 4 

-Republican 
Alabama Richard Shelby (D) Alaaka Undecldld Arkanua Dale Bumpera (D) C.lllomla Alan Cranaton (D) Colorado Undecided Connecticut Chrtatophar Dodd (D) Fklrtda Bob Graham (D) Georgill Wyche Fowler (D) Hawaii Inouye (D) Idaho Undecided llllnola Alan Dixon (D) Indiana Dan Quayle (R) Iowa Charlla Gr~~~llly (R) Kana11 Bob Doll (R) Kentucky Wandell Ford (D) Loulalana John B-ux (D) Maryland Barbara Mlkulakl (D) 
Mlnourt Chrlatophar Bond (R) ·Navada Harry Raid (D) 
New Hampahlre Warren Rudman (R) 
New York AI D' Amato (R) 
North C.rollna Terry S.nlord (D) 
North Dakota Undecided 
Ohio John Glenn (D) 
Oklahoma Don Nlckllla (R) 
Oregon Bob Packwood (R) 
Pennaylvanla Arlen Specter (R) 
South C.rollna EmHt Holllnga (D) 
South Dakota Tom Daachll (D) 
Utah Jake Gam (R) 
Vermont Patrick Leahy (D) 
Waahlngton Brock Adama (D) 
Wlaconaln Bob Kaaten (R) 

Source: Assoclatea Press Observer Graphic/Mark Weimholt 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1986 

Sophomores Mike:: Johnson (left) and Todd forecasted, the pair brought their blankets to · Parker (right) prepare to spend the night in fight off the Indiana chill. 
line for basketball tickets. With a cool night 

HPC committees to study hall life 
By REGIS COCCIA 
Assistant News Editor 
Four committees looking into co-ed housing, female is­sues, four-year dorms and hall staffs at Notre Dame were pre­sented to the Hall Presidents' Council at Tuesday night's meeting. 
The committees will report their findings at the April meet­ing of the Board of Trustees, according to Bruce Lohman, coordinator of Board of Trus­tees reports. 
Pat McCauley, a freshman from Morrissey Hall, noted a change in students' attitudes toward living on campus. "One of the unique qualities of Notre 

-Dame is its campus," he said. "Lately, there's been a change of attitudes, with everyone moving off campus.'l According to McCauley, the Residentiality Report will look into four-year dorms, co-ed housing, rectors and hall staffs within the halls as well as female issues. Lohman said the Residen­tiality Report will be com­prised of four committees: Hall Structures; Rectors and Hall Staffs; Intellectual At­mospere; and Female Issues. The report will look at female issues in a separate committee because "dorm life in girls' halls is in some ways different than guys' dorms and Notre Dame has been co-ed for 13 years,"Lohman said. "Are females fully integra­ted and accepted into the Notre Dame community? Given these considerations," Lohman said, "I feel that we should 
have a separate committee 
looking at those issues." 
Lohman solicited the hall 
presidents to serve as commit­
tee members and provide 
liaison to students. "Hall presi­
dents have insights in halls and 
students. I've worked with 
them before, they're good stu­
dent leaders," he said. 
HPC Co-Chairman Sheila 
O'Connor read the Student Sen­
ate report. 

O'Connor said RASTA (Rally Against Starvation) was set aside for the time being. "Fat­her Tyson put (RASTA) on probationary status," O'Connor said. "That's all (for RASTA) until next year.'' In other business, · Student Senator Brian Holst distributed a rector survey concerning parietals to hall presidents. Responding to questions about the survey, Holst said, "Hope­fully this will guide our discus­sion a little better.'' 
Holst explained the impetus 
for forming the survey came 
as the result of a lack of under­
standing of rectors' opinions 
concerning parietals. 
HPC Co-Chairman Sheila 
O'Connor announced that 
check requests for purchases 
for hall improvements are due 
by December 9. 
Stanford Hall President Jim 
Wimbiscus reported on the 
HPC committee meeting with 
Associate Vice President for 
Student Residence Life John 
Goldrick on November 3. 
Wimbiscus said Goldrick recommended the HPC com­mittee talk to Director of Fire Safety Jack Bland regarding decorations for formal dances. 
The committee approached Goldrick about non-semi­formal dances, Wimbiscus said. Goldrick said he "would be happy to hear us out," ac­cording to Wimbiscus. 
The council discussed setting back the hours of the Buzz Bus on Thursday from 10 p.m.-3 
a.m. O'Connor said "It wouldn't be a problem finan­cially. You want to keep it on a fairly regular schedule. 
"As long as a decent number of people ride it, it's not that big a deal; it's not that much to ride it," said O'Connor. A majority voted to set the hours back on Thursday. 
Lohman asked for participa­tion in the United Way Aerobat­hon on November 22. "(HPC Co-Chairman) Joanie (Cahill) suggested the hall presidents sign up," Lohman said, noting, "I've been told it won't be very strenous. You could still do it and catch the (Notre Dame vs. LSU) game.'' 
A majority of the hall presi­dents said they would sign up for the aerobathon. 
O'Connor said, "We're having problems getting prizes (for the aerobathon) to give to people.'' O'Connor called for anyone with ideas to contact her or Joanie Cahill. 
Lohman said Non-Varsity Athletics is sponsoring a Late Night Olympics in February to benefit the Special Olympics. He said NVA hopes the HPC will be an enthusiastic sup­porter of the event. 
Pasquerilla West Hall Co­President Colleen Kretz an­nounced she is the Theodore.'s representative to the HPC. 
The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 2 
I • 

In Brief 
"Wake Up to Prayer," a new project in Notre Dame's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, has named Julie Lytle, a telecommunications specialist from the Catholic Diocese of Raleigh, North Carolina, project manager. "Wake Up to Prayer" is a daily, cable television, morning wake-up service to be produced by WNDU's Golden Dome Productions. As presently conceived, three to five minute messages, including music, Old Testament scriptural reading, and a brief prayer, will be aired every ten minutes between 5:30 and 8:30a.m. -The Observer 
Despite demands by a "Red Sox Revenge Squad," New York Mayor Ed Koch will not have to dress up in a bunny suit to get back a stolen New York City flag. In a World Series bet, Koch and Boston Mayor Raymond Flynn had agreed that the city whose team lost the World Series would fly the other's flag. A New York flag was raised Friday but stolen Monday by a group that demanded the Mets apologize "for the behavior of their security force and fans" and that Koch "dress up .in a bunny outfit." 
-Associated Press • 

Of Interest 
Government and prospective government majors are invited to an informational meeting tonight at 7: 30 in the Memorial Library Lounge. Pre-registration will be dis­cussed, along with area studies, the Washington Semester Program, and the senior essay. Speakers will include Pro­fessor George Brinkley and Professor Sharon O'Brien. The meeting is sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha. -The Observer 
A specialist on South Africa, Dr. William Minter, will 
• discuss United States intervention in South Africa in a lecture tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. The speech,"With All Deliberate Delay: The West and South Africa Sanc­tions," is sponsored by the Ideas and Issues Commission of Notre Dame's Student Activities Board. An introduction will be given by Dr. Peter Walshe, director of African Studies at Notre Dame. -The Observer 
Tonight's Thomas More Society lecture will feature Fa­ther Richard McCormick, S.J., O'Brien Professor of The­ology, at 8 in the Little Theater of LaFortune Student Center. All are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will present its Fall Concert qn Thursday and its Alumni Reunion Concert on Friday at 8:15p.m. in Washington Hall. Ticket vouchers will be distributed today from 1 to 4 p.m. at the Washington Hall Manager's Office. Vouchers are good until 8:05 p.m. on concert night. There is a limit of 2 vouchers per person. 
-The Observer 

Bread for the World, an organization to end world hunger, will have a representative from Washington, D.C. on campus Thursday at noon at the Center for Social Con­cerns. The representative will discuss how to lobby to eradicate world hunger. Everyone is invited to attend. 
-The Observer 

The Time College Achievement Awards, which recog­nize the nation's outstanding college students, are looking for 100 juniors who excel in academics and extra­curricular activities. Twenty winners will receive $2,500 each and their achievements will be showcased in a special promotional section of the next April campus edition of Time. Eighty merit finalists will receive $250 each and honorable mentions in the section. All100 winners will be given first consideration for internships with Time, Inc. and other major participating corporations. The com­pleted application is due December 31. Applications are available at the dean's office or by calling 1-800-523-5948. 
-The Observer 


Weather 
Like many politicians, students will be able to sling mud if a 30 percent chance of light rain materializes today. Highs for today will be in the mid to upper 40s and lows near 40. A 20 percent chance of rain Thursday with highs in the low to mid 50s. -Associated Press 

= 


Ihe-ObserYer-­
Design Editor ...... Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor . . Mike Naughton Design Assistant .... Chris Donnelly Accent Layout ..... Sharon Emmite Layout Staff ....... Ann Biddlecom Typists ........... Sharon Emmite 
Typesetters ............. Mike Buc Typists .............. Esther Ivory News Editor ....... Chris Bednarski NO Day Editor ...... Kim Yuratovac Copy Editor ......... Patty Censky SMC Day Editor ....... Karen Webb Sports Copy Editor .. Rick Rietbrock Ad Design . ........ Sharon Emmite Viewpoint Copy Editor . ... Bob White Photographer . ........... Mike Ury 
Viewpoin( Layout . .. Melinda Murphy 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Slowly but surely is the way to tackle life's problems 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

"Hurry up and wait at the next gate," the airline official told a group of frenzied travel­lers last weekend. 
What was interesting about the whole incident was that most people methodically followed the man's directions, rushed to the new gate as­signment, and waited for another two hours as the airline sorted out the confusion. There was no thought to the contradiction "hurry up and wait". for it seems to be a part of everyday life. 
People actually stood for the entire two hours hoping that being in the front of the line would be better than being last. My philosophy was that the plane could not leave until the last per­son was aboard anyway, so I avoided the lines and set to finish some reading. It would be a tough week, I thought, if I didn't get work done; so I slipped into a "crisis prevention" frame of mind. In my case I couldn't avoid the current crisis, but I was able to avoid lots of stress for the next week. These past few weekends I have had the opportunity to observe the sig­nificance of the phrase "hurry up and wait" in society. We are all in a hurry when it comes to daily matters and get so wrapped up in our schedules that we fail to take a look at "the big picture" and what happens down the road. 
This mentality probably developed when the first line ever formed, thereby showing that the first line was the mark of civilization's true beginning. 
We all operate under deadlines and are ac­customed to rushing at the last minute to do what could have and should have been done on a more methodical basis. No, I'm not preach-· ing; yes, I am guilty of slipping into the crisis mentality at times. 
The adage about the tortoise and the hare probably has been around for quite some time­-the idea being to make progress but to do it at a consistent pace. 
Unfortunately, like many old adages, the stories are told but not followed. It is clear we all too often run wildly toward the "end result" without considering how we are going to get there and without pacing ourselves according­ly. Too often we reach a goal not knowing ex­actly what we have accomplished and more often fall away from the original purpose with­out even coming near it. Examples can be found everywhere. 
Astronaut Neil Armstrong made "a small step for man" when he walked on the moon, but only after many other smaller steps were made in building the space program. However, it seems as if even NASA began to take those 
CHINA • GLASS • TOYS • 
•
A 
T 
u 
R \ D A 
y 


extra steps for granted and forgot this philos­
ophy. 
While it is true that sometimes rushing is unavoidable and necessary, as the Challenger disaster proved, it can also be dangerous. 
The crisis attitude which we all carry not only adds extra stress but breeds a false sense of security. " Oh, the situation will take care of itself," we say. 
Unfortunately, this is not true. One only needs to take a quick trip to the steel mills of Northwest Indiana. 
Last summer both union and management · officials were quoted as saying the crisis over closing substantial portions of the mills could not be avoided. What they didn't mention was that the crisis had been looming for many years. 
Over the years, they rushed to deal with the little problems but but never tackled the big ones. By the time both sides realized the situa­tion would not take care of itself and that cooperation was in order, it was too late. 
We have been bred into putting things off until the last minute. I even put this article off until the deadline approached. There are already too many deadlines to meet and problems to solve for us to add "hurrying up and waiting" to the list. But as long as we tackle this mentality slowly but surely, the problem will take care of itself. 
FURNITURE • rOOLS ------JEWELRY • PAINTINGS • VINTAGE CLOTHING 
ANTIQUE DEALERS MARKET 
BETHEL COLLEGE • GOODMAN AUDITORIUM 1001 W. McKinley Ave. • Mishawaka 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
• INDOORS-HEATED-FOOD -FREE PARKING • 
SATURDAY 8 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. PUBLIC INVITED $1.50 ADMISSION 
PRESENT THIS CARD FOR 
DISCOUNT 25~ DISCOUNT 
-----ARKPRODUCTIONS • P.O. Box 1331 • Mlahawalui. IN 46544 • (219) 2JIH208 ----­
Student Activities Board presents 


WILLIAM MINTER 
Specialist on South Africa 
and 

"With All Deliberate Delay: The West and South Africa Sanctions" 
with an 

introduction by DR. PETER WALSHE Wednesday, Nov. 5th Washington Hall 8:00pm 
The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 3 

APPhoto 
It's the family business 
Joseph P. Kennedy, victorious yesterday in his bid to replace the congressional seat vacated by retiring Speaker of the House Tip O'Neil, is shown Monday afternoon shaking hands with motorists in Massachusetts' eighth congressional-district. 
Here's How: 
1 Fill out an application, availabl ly Thursday and Friday in 
---~ 2 Show up at Theodore's, November 17th,9:00 pm. 
3 Get Introduced to your date by our tactful and DISCREET "LOVEBROKERS". 
~~lldij~~~~ij 
IF YOU HIT IT OFF, 
SHOW IT OFF 
IF NOT­
BLOWITOFF! 



Professor says scholarly dissent may cause departure from Church 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
Ralph Mcinerny, professor of Medieval Studies at Notre Dame, said in a lecture Tues­day night that there is a point where scholarly dissent be­comes departure from the Church. 
Those who hold to the funda­mental claims maintained by the Pope and the majesterium, and those who deny these claims cannot logically be members of the same Church, according to Mcinerny. 
Mcinerny referred to Thomas Sheehan's article in the New York Review of Books, "The Liberal Consensus." In this review on theologian Hans Kueng, Sheehan said, a liberal consensus stands in direct op­position to the Pope and would soon come to dominate the Church, according to Mcinerny. 
Sheehan said this liberal con­
sensus believes that the Church 
is not grounded in sacred 
iC iC
iC iC
INTERNATIONAL 
iC 1·9·8·7 iC
iC iC
SUMMER 


~ ~-~ ~ 
iC iC 
~ ww iC 
~ \iii ~ 
~ ~
.iC S P E C I A L ~ iC OLYMPICS iCiC GAMES'M iC iC iC ~ ~ 
: ~ i~'&I!NT ~ iC ~ iC 
~ NAVALSOCIETY ~ 
iC iC 
iC iC 
~ 24 HOUR RUN ~ 
iC iC 

~ for special olympics ~ 
iC iC
t 1pm Friday, Nov 7 • ~ ~ 1 pm Saturday, Nov 8 iC iC iC 
iC iC 
iC iC
iC Pledges accepted through your dorm reps iC iC iC 
~ run sponsored by: ~ 

t e.~
~II w _. 
~ .... 11AAK iC ~ iC ~ ad paid for by ND Student government. ~ 
revelation, "that Jesus didn't think he was divine, that Jesus had no notion of starting a Church, that Jesus didn't in­stitute a priesthood, (and) that Jesus didn't rise from the dead," according to Mcinerny, adding that "the list goes on." 
Sheehan said, according to Mcinerny, that "the people who write the books, give the grants, and hold the positions of power in the Church and uni­versities make up this con­sensus." 
Although Mcinerny dis­counted the article as "dramatic and triumphalis­tic," he said such a liberal con­sensus, if it existed, would con­stitute a clear departure from the Church, rather than mere dissent. 
Mcinerny said he himself was a dissenter, citing his lay Catholic journal, "Crisis," as an example because of his criticism of the bishops' pas­toral letter on nuclear weap­ons. "Of course I don't feel un­ruly or indocile in taking exception to the bishops' letters ... because the bishops invited discussion of their view." 

"But this doesn't mean that the bishops were inviting dis­sent across the board." 
As an example, Mcinerny said "Cardinal Bernadine drew attention to at least one point in the pastoral about which he said there could be no disagree­ment, and that is, it is always and everywhere immoral to di­rectly kill the innocent ... (he) was making a distinction be­tween things which are discus­sible -about which dissent is possible within a framework of ordinary conversation among Catholics--and certain things which are not up to that certain kind of discussion." 
Mcinerny said Father Charles Curran did not prac­tice dissent in the proper, tradi­tional way of "exchanging of views," but was "politicizing theology" by appearing on na­tional television. 
"I as an academic resent the invocation of academic freedom to cover activities that don't sound at all to me like the traditional activities that have been covered by academic freedom: that is, responsible discussion with one's peers about the difficulties in the argument (advanced by the Church). 
But it is quite another thing when theology is practiced in the media; when the first thing a theologians tends to do is to call a news conference .... What was going on (with Cur­ran) was not a discussion among theologians but rather an appeal to the laity as a po­tential constituency to mount a rebellion against the majes­terium." 
Mcinerny said the Pope and his majesterium have the right to decide Catholic doctrine aut­horitatively. Mcinerny is a Michael P. Grace Professor of Medieval Studies and the Director of the Jacques Mauritain Center. 
..... 

START EXECUTIVE TRAINING NOW 
Don't wait until you fimsh colleg'e to start a management training program. If you have at least two years remain­ing, consider Air Force ROTC. We can give you a head start on a fast­paced career. 
Air Force ROTC cadets will be in your dorms tonight at 7:00 to answer any questions 
about the ROTC 
program. 

lEADERSHIP [XCELLENC£ STA.TS HERE 

The Observer Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 4 
Naval society to hold 24-hour run to benefit 1987 Special Olympics in South Bend 
By HEATHER MILLER Staff Reporter 
A 24 Hour Run for Special Olympics, sponsored by the Trident Naval Society, will be held November 7th and 8th on the Notre Dame campus, ac­cording to Midshipman Robert Henke, president of the Trident Naval Society. 
The run will be held to raise money for the 1987 Interna­tional Summer Special Olym­pics Games to be held July 30 through August 8, 1987, on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses, Henke said. 
The Trident Naval Society, a professional society at Notre Dame composed of future Navy and Marine Corps Offi­cers, hopes to raise $4,000 for Special Olympics through indi­vidual pledges and corporate sponsorships from Coca Cola, Hardee's, and Clark Telecom-



Senate 
continuedjrompage I 
In the South Carolina gover­nor's race, GOP rep. Carroll Campbell Jr. was locked in a close race with Lt. Gov. Mike Daniel. Republican Bob Mar­tinez held the lead in Florida, as well. 
There was bitter irony for Republicans in the early trend in Senate races. 
Reagan campaigned long and hard to keep the Senate from falling into ideologically hostile Democratic hands, and voters in election-place inter­views gave him a strong over­all approval rating of over 60 percent. 
Majority Leader Bob Dole of Kansas was easily re-elected, then spent the night wondering 
munications said chairman of 
the run Midshipman John 
Mosier. 
"Student body support is 
paramount to the success of 
this run-a-thon," }le said. 
Each dorm will have a rep­resentative collecting pledges this week and pledges will be taken in the dining halls on Thursday, November 6, Mosier said. 
According to a fact sheet pro­vided to Henke by the ISSOG, all proceeds will go to Special Olympics to help organize the 1987 games, the world's largest event for mentally retarded persons. 
Past International Summer Games have been held in Chicago, Ill., Los Angeles, Calif., and Baton Rouge, La. Athletes from some 60 countries, 50 states, the Dis­trict of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands and 
if he would spend the next two years leading a GOP minority, rather than the majority he has commanded since 1984. 
In another closely watched Senate race, GOP sen. Jeremiah Denton pulled ahead of conservative Democratic Rep. Richard Shelby. ABC projected Denton would keep the seat in the Republican column. 
Next door in Georgia, Dem­ocratic Rep. Wyche Fowler led incumbent Republican Mat­tingly in a Senate race, but by a narrow margin. 
In another Dixie Senate race, former Democratic Gov. Terry Sanford took an early lead over Broyhill in North Carolina, and CBS said he would win. Rep. John Breaux . led for the Democrats for the Louisiana Senate seat being vacated by Democrat Russell Long. 


Gm Puckett HERMAN'S G~ &TheUnionGap HERMITS ~~--­NOVEMBER 11, 7:30P.M. NOTRE DAME ACC 
Reserved Tickets: $14.00 
ON SALE AT A.C.C. BOX OFFICE. 
SEARS (MISHAWAKA a ELKHART). ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OFFICE) NIGHTWINOS (MISHAWAKA a NILES) ELKHART TJMH SUPE~DS (ELKHART), J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (laPORTE) MUSIC MAJIC (BENTON HARBOR) 
CHARGE IY PHONE M.C • ./VISA 219-239-7460 
American Samoa are expected to participate. Approximately 60,000 spectators are expected for the opening ceremonies alone, the fact sheet said. 
Athletes in the 1987 ISSOG range from 8 to over 70 years of age, the fact sheet said. "A Time For Heroes," the theme of Special Olympics, epitomizes the 1987 ISSOG be­
cause  it  includes  everyone:  
athletes,  families,  friends,  
coaches,  trainers,  sponsors,  

and volunteers, it said. 
Also according to the fact sheet, there are 16 sports in all for the 1987 ISSOG: eight offi­cial sports, such as aquatics, gymnastics, and softball, and eight demonstration sports, such as road cycling, canoeing, and tennis. 
According to Henke, plans for the run began in early Sep­tember. "One of the Trident Naval Society's main goals is to serve the community," said Henke. 
Starting at noon on Novem­ber 7th, Henke said a tent headquarters will be set up on the Fieldhouse Mall to receive pledges. 

Alumni awards announced 
Special to The Observer 
Three University of Notre Dame alumni will receive awards from Notre Dame's Alumni Association in 1987, according to Charles Len~ non, executive director of the association. 
C.J. ("Jake") Kline, of South Bend, a 1921 alumnus, will receive The John Car­dinal O'Hara Award. Former Notre Dame head basketball coach and profes­sor emeritus of mathema­tics, Kline has served the University as a faculty member for 39 years. The O'Hara Award is given an­nually to an outstanding graduate of Notre Dame who is also a former Univer­sity faculty, administration or staff member. It will be presented to Kline June 21, during Notre Dame's Fifty­year Club Reunion. 
Brigadier General Jerome ("Gary") Cooper, of Mobile, Ala., a 1958 alumnus, will receive the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh Award. The first black Brigadier General in the United States Marine Corps Reserve, he is vice president for marketing at David Volkert &Associates, a Mobile engineering firm, and a former Alabama state legislator. The Cavanaugh Award is given annually to a graduate who has given outstanding service in federal, state or local gov­ernment. It will be pre­sented to General Cooper September 18, during the Association's National Board of Directors fall meet­ing. 
Michael Novell, of Manila, the Philippines, a 1975 alumnus, will receive the Dr. Thomas A.. Dooley Award. A former Peace Corps volunteer in the Philippines, Novell, a direc­tor of Save the Children Pro­gram, works in an Indo-Chinese refugee cen­ter. The Dooley award is given annually to a young graduate who has distin­guished himself or herself in humanitarian efforts and local alumni club involve­ment. 

Seniors and interested underclassmen are invited to attend: 

"Investment Banking Financial Analyst Positions: An Introduction" 
Date: Thursday, November 6 'Time: 8:00p.m. Location: Upper Lounge University Club 
Two 1985 graduates from the University 
will discuss the role of the analyst on 
Wall Street and provide advice on 
researching and seeking two-year 
financial analyst positions. 
Sponsored by: 
IIKidder, Peabody & Co.
Salomon Brothers Inc ­
lncorpor;atf'd 
All majors welcome. 

----~-~--------------­
The Observer 
Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 5 



Church envoy says m.ore hostages may be released soon 
Associated Press tions that Associated Press cor­Both Anderson and Suther­
respondent Terry Anderson, land are being held by the Is­

WIESBADEN, West Ger­39, and educator Thomas Sut­lamic Jihad organization, made many -Anglican Church envoy herland, 55, would be the next up of pro-Iranian Shiite Mos­Terry Waite said Tuesday American hostages freed. lem extremists. Waite empha­"reasonably strong sugges­He replied, "Those have been sized that he was waiting for a tions" have emerged that two strong. Yes, I would say rea­message from the group. Americans will be the next sonably strong suggestions." hostages released in Lebanon. "At the moment, the two It was Islamic Jihad that held He said he expected a message people specifically in my sights Jacobsen hostage for more than from their captors within 24 are Terry Anderson and 17 months. Jacobsen, 55, a hours. Thomas Sutherland," Waite hospital administrator from 
Waite addressed a news con­added. "That is where our best Huntington Beach, 'Calif., was ference in Wiesbaden near the contacts lie at the moment." freed Sunday. Jacobsen, Ander­
U.S. Air Force Hospital, where He said he expected to hear son, a native of Lorain, Ohio, newly freed American hostage within 24 hours from his con­and Sutherland, of Fort Collins, David Jacobsen was undergo­tacts whether he will be going Colo., acting dean of agricul­ing medical examinations. back to Beirut, the capital of ture at American University in 
Waite, the emissary of the Lebanon, to negotiate the Beirut, were kidnapped sepa­Archbishop of Canterbury, was release of the Americans and rately in Moslem west Beirut asked if there had been indica-other Western hostages. in 1985. 
lJ\:1 Lel!JlHill[I!Jl[8 Wll:ITl~ [jl!llL:8[8~ t/[J(i]II!!) Lilill(!}!!Jillill~ \j ffi[!) 

He died 

After he turned down food, water and all the things tie lovea--even sex. And chose cocaine instead. He did all he wanted until he had a seiZure and died 
This doesn't just happen to anmals in research. It happens t? people, too. Smart people. SUccessful people. People in control. Until they lose all control to a drug thafs more addictive than heroin: 
cocaine. 

. They tum away from friends and family. Lose JObs and self-esteem. And even die before they ever get help. 
Getting help for those we care about is critical 
and we can begin by educating ourselves w~h the facts about cocaine and other drugs. ' 
The University of Notre Dame as a concerned cornmunity has requested information about substance abuse. In response to this request the Univers~y Counseling Center is proud to bring a we.ll known cocaine and drug expert to our campus 
DATE Thursday, November 6, 1986 TIME 7:00P.M. PLACE Aud~orit.rn/M emorial Library PRESENTOR Randy Weber, Parkside Medical 
Services/ Park Ridge, IL FEE FREE 
We need you to come and bring one friend! Demonstrate the Notre Dame comm~ent to caring, 
In other developments on Tuesday:' 
Robert McFarlane, a special envoy of President Reagan, went to Tehran to try to im­prove U.S.-Iranian relations but was arrested, confined five days and expelled, Speaker Hasheimi Rafsanjani of the Iranian Parliament said Tues­day. Rafsanjani said McFar­lane and four other Americans arrived in the Iranian capital aboard a plane carrying mili­tary equipment for Iran, Iran's official Islamic Republic News Agency reported. 
His statements followed pub­lished reports in the Middle East that Jacobsen's release resulted from secret negotia­tions between America and Iran. 
Reagan's chief spokesman, Latry Speakes, reaffirmed the United States' ban on weapon's sales to Iran. 
Jacobsen wept for joy Tues­day on seeing his grown chil­dren again -sons Eric and Paul and daughter, Diane Duggan ­and said he longed for the day other Americans held in Lebanon also are free. They were reunited at a one hour meeting at the hospital and then appeared together on a balcony to talk to reporters. 
Jacobsen, director of the American University Hospital in Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, was kidnapped in Beirut on May 28, 1985. 
Waite was asked about a pos­sible role by Syria in Jacobsen's release and whether Americans or Iranians were in­volved in the negotiations. 
"I don't want to comment on the political dynamics," he replied. 
But he addressed the issue of 17 men imprisoned in Kuwait for the December 1983 bom­bings of the U.S. and French embassies. Islamic Jihad, or Is­lamic Holy War, repeatedly has demanded freedom for its 17 comrades before it will release American hostages in Lebanon. 

PART TIME SALES HELP WANTED AT GOODWILL PLAZA STORE 
on Howard & Eddy atfive points. FLEXIBLE HOURS, WEEKLYPAY, AND STORE DISCOUNT. 
Call Mrs. Daughtry 234-1661 

Belly Dance Snrprise Service 
"for a gift that is unique, send a bellygram to your shiek" 
255-3355 
see our ad in the campus yellow pQges 
...... 

INDIANA CLUB 
* EVERY WEDNESDAY NITE * 
MINI SKIRT CONTEST 
thru November 19th $50. CASH & $25. BAR CREDIT PRIZES 
AU Mini Skins No Cover Charge! 75¢ ROO( 8ccr Shots for All! Special Prize fOt Shonesr Mini Skin!! 
Wed., Nov. 5, thru Sat., Nov. 8 
VICTROLA 
THUll IS DOllAR DAY! Sl Cover Sl Shots Sl.Bccr 
otre Dame Ave Apartments 



2bedrooms, completely furnished Second Semester Discount Program 
Call for Details 234-6647 




"ie\Y~_O_i_n_t__________~we~dnesda~y,No~vemb~ers,l~Ms-p~a~s 
Fear is enjoyed only in controlled situations 
You sit in a darkened theater, clutch­ing your popcorn box with sweaty palms. The girl on screen is tiptoeing nervously through the abandoned house, tentatively calling her friend's name. We know that her friend was un­ceremoniously beheaded in the last scene but our hapless heroine does not. She turns at a slight sound behind her and backs away from it slowly (never, never back away from anything if you should find yourself in an abandoned house) and a towering masked figure wielding a larger than average butcher knife leaps at her from the closet. 
Maura Mandyck 

frankly, my dear 
Everyone screams. You throw your remaining popcorn into the air, having lost most of it already during the be­heading. And a good time is had by all. 
Horror films are big business. "The Fly," in which Jeff Goldblum is turned 

P.O.BoxQ 
Northeast neighbors want to preserve area 
Dear Editor: 

An Open Letter to Notre Dame Students from the Northeast Neighborhood: 
There has been a lot of publicity lately about Notre Dame students and the Northeast Neighborhood. We wanted to write this letter and let you know how we really feel about students in the neighborhood. 
Many of us have lived in the North­east Neighborhood most of our lives. We've invested in our homes and raised our families here. There are all kinds of people in the Northeast Neighbor­hood--blacks, Italians, Jamaicans, el­derly people, students and Notre Dame faculty and staff. We have all lived to­gether over the years. We're proud of the neighborhood and want the neigh­borhood to look nice. 
r Over the years, more students have 
, 
moved into the neighborhood. We don't 
have problems with all students -we want to welcome you to the neighbor­hood. Some students have caused prob­lems for us. We don't like students leaving trash all over the street and decorating our front yards with beer 
into what Newsweek calls "the most sickening beast this side of 'The Blob,' " is making money in the same fashion as "Halloween" and "Friday the 13th." Oddly enough, people will pay money to be terrified. 
Stephen King will attest that the fear­in-print market is just as booming as £ear-on-celluloid. The man who creates killer cars, vampire colonies and axe­swinging crazies is a multi-millionaire. 
Just last Friday, this entire nation 
paid tribute to how much fun it is to be 
scared. The best house in the neighbor­
hood on Halloween is always the one 
with eerie lighting, spooky sound­
effects and plenty of cobwebs. 
But what is harder to understand is 
why we like to be scared. Why would 
ordinarily sane individuals seek out sit­
uations that cause their hearts to pound 
and their stomachs to churn? 
Part of the answer may be that seeing 
the terror of other people's lives makes 
our own seem that much safer and 
cozier. As a friend of mine explained, 
''After seeing a really gruesome horror movie I don't feel so bad about not having a date for Friday. At least I haven't just had my guts ripped out by a 10 foot tall slavering monster." 
We can also feel a little bit smarter than the average horror movie victim. I certainly know better than to hang around a summer camp where the counselors are disappearing one by one, and you won't catch me taking a shower at the Bates Motel either. 
Stephen King has some thoughts on the subject. In an interview with "Time," Oct. 6, he explains, "There is a part of us that needs to vicariously exorcise the darker side of our feelings." Apparently every one of us is secretly a creature that stalks the night with a repressed desire to slaughter innocents, eat human flesh or at the very least, hang out in cemeteries. It is only through books and movies that we are able to function in a society where homocide is generally frowned upon. 
I have a theory of my own. People 
cans. Some landlords use student ren­tals to justify a "no maintenance" policy and the houses end up looking bad. We don't like having parties of 500 or more people next door. Students who ignore the influence of their actions on the neighborhood are discrediting the other Notre Dame students who are good neighbors. Students who cause problems are hurting the neighbor­hood. People who live next to problem houses will eventually move and new families won't move into the neighbor­hood if it becomes a student hangout. 
You will only be living in the neigh­borhood a few years. We will be living here the rest of our lives. Our homes and community are important to us. So do what you can to be a good neighbor. If you work with us, we can look out for your interests in return. 
Rene/do Robinson Director Northeast Neighborhood Center 
Letter insults those who served for peace 
Dear Editor: 

Professor Jay P. Dolan's letter (Oct. 
16) merits comment. (Carberry­watchers will recognize that "merits comment" is naught but a euphemism for "muted outrage"). Dolan's letter is a disgrace; and insult to those of us who served in wars to provide and en­sure the very peace which now permits the Dolan's of this world the freedom to utter their simplistic dogmas--and ut­ter them in English. 
Had my generation been persuaded by Dolan's nonsense, The Observer would now be published in German with a Japanese imprimatur. 
Yet there is good news. Dolan in­forms us that his "Catholic education" taught him "in good Thomistic logic that war and peace, much like hot and cold, love and hate, were mutually ex­clusive." Thus do our good students ex­perience their initiation into that realm prescribed by many of our resident theologians and . philosophers-­Thomism. We are indebted to Dolan for introducing reference to a body of knowledge granted to civilization by St. Thomas Aquinas--The Angelic Doctor, as Rome declared. (But then again, what does Rome know of theology or theologians, as the Reverend McBrien recently opened in the N.Y. Times). 
The ROTC? Away with it, Dolan declares. Fine. Devoid of univer­sity/college educated officers, Congress will be obliged to create more West Points and Air Force Academies. An American Spandau! Hitler loved it, would Dolan? 
In the name of many colleagues who were dispatched to their Maker by those progressive, trendy, modernist in Berlin, Tokyo, Moscow, Peking and Hanoi, I think it only just that Dolan tender an apology to them in the civilized manner and tradition which those poor (men) preserved for him and his ilk. 
Dr. James J. Carberry Professor of Chemical Engineering 

Keep it short Write to 
Viewpoint Department P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 
Quote of the day 
"Be courteous to all, but intimate with few, and let those few be well tried before you give them your confidence. True friendship is a plant of slow growth, and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity before it is en­titled to the appellation." 
George Washington (1732-1799) 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton Gtaphic Art~; Manger .......... Mark Weimholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon 


The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free 
like to be scared, but only in controlled situations. Ifthe movie is genuinely too scary you can leave, and if the book is too grotesque you can toss it aside. Every time, however, that we sit or tremble through something frightening we affirm that we can be really scared and survive it. And the next time we must walk down a dark street alone or perhaps face a particularly . wrathful professor, we recognize both the symptoms of fear and the fact that they will go away. 
That is why a group of us went to the Carroll Haunted House on Saturday hoping for bats and spiders and vampire-filled coffins. The fact that it was closed before our arrival damp­ened our enthusiasm only slightly. We simply took the darkest path home, gleefully imagining a bloodthirsty 
lunatic behind every tree. 
Maura  Mandyck is  a  senior English  
major  and  the  assis tant  Viewpoint  
editor.  


expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November3, 1966 
Accent· 
The Notre Dame K. of C. 77 yrs. of Knight service 

RICHARD WESTENBERBER features writer 
When the "Knights of Colum­bus" Is mentioned, perhaps the first thing that comes to mind Is an Image ofmen carrying swords on their belts and wearing hats with plumes. However, the Knights of Columbus Is much more than this fleeting percep­tion might offer. The K. of C. stands today as the world's larg­est Catholic lay organization. Last year, Its 1.4 million mem­bers were responsible for $66 million In contributions to charity and 19 million man-hours In charitable work. These services were rendered In the form ofgifts to scholarship funds, churches, libraries, schools and welfare or­ganizations, and In work with the aged, Ill,. retarded and hungry. Here at Notre Dame, the Knights of Columbus organization Is represented through Council 
14 77, the largest and oldest col­
lege council in the United States. 
The Knights of Columbus was founded In 1882 In New Haven, Conn. by Father Michael J. McGivney, a Roman Catholic priest. The purpose In founding the organization was to establish an Insurance program for widows of deceased members. This Insurance program Is still In effect and today, the K. of C. Is the 120th largest company out of the approximately 2000 Insur­ance companies In the United States. 
Directing and governing the activities of the more than 8000 local councils Is the Supreme Council, which remains based In New Haven. The K. of C.'s "Chief Executive" Is the supreme knight, currently Virgil E. Dec­hant. In addition to the national and state officers, each Individ­ual council has a grand knight. John Rodgers presently holds this postition in Notre Dame's council. 
Notre Dame's council of Knights Is currently In its 77th year of service. The early activi­ties on campus were planned and directed from the basement of Walsh Hall, and the K. of C. quickly became an important part of Notre Dame. Several of· the activities currently spon­sored by the Center for Social Concerns, such as Mardi Gras (today known as An Tostal) and the Bengal Bouts, were adminis­tered by Council 1477 for many years. 
Recognizing the need for a per­manent council home, the Knights established a building fund in 1919. The Great Depres­sion left the council with only $4000 In Its treasury and In 1934, Mr. Ell J. Shaheen as­sumed responsibility for the building fund. By 1969, the fund had Increased to $750,000. It was at this time that the council purchased the old post office building, located a<ljacent to Walsh Hall, from the University. 
This facility, dedicated to Shaheen, has remained the council home and Includes a game room, a study lounge, of­flees, a meeting room and a kitchen. 
Notre Dame's council pres­ently has approximately 150 members on eampus and be­tween 400 and 500 Alumni members. One of the council's primary projects Is Its work with Corvilla House, a home for retarded children. For several years, Notre Dame Knights have been selling steak sandwiches before all of the home football games In an effort to raise funds for Corvilla. However, the coun­cil's Involvement does not stop with the monetary contributions. Rather, the members actively participate In the lives of the chil­dren. Often, the children will be guests at the council home for such special events as a Hallo­ween party or more commonly, watching cartoons and playing games. In addition to their work with Corvilla, Notre Dame Knights serve as volunteers every Saturday morning at Logan Center, another home for developmentally disabled chil­dren. 

According to Tom Darrow, a senior accounting major from Wisconsin and a four year mem­ber of the K. of C., members of the Council determine for them­selves the kinds of projects in which they want the Council to be involved. With all of the other pressures and demands upon Notre Dame students, why should they want to spend time on these projects? Darrow says, "It Is basically to show your ser­vice to the Church, and because It's a fraternal organization, to become closer to your brother Knights. You can accomplish much more as a group than as an individual." 
Though the K. of C. remains open only to men, the Knights are careful to emphasize that theirs Is a family made up of "husbands, wives, children, cot­lege students, and religious." Women Interested In the Knight's work are able to join a slmlllar organization, the Ladles of Co­lumbus 
Notre Dame Council -1477 holds Its meetings on the second and fourth Tuesday of every month. Anyone Interested In be­coming a Knight Is urged to con­tact the council directly or to talk to any Knight ·for information. Those who join will find them­selves In distinguished compa­ny. Father Joyce, executive vice president of the University, Is currently a member, and Head Football Coach Lou Holtz will join next semester. Students who are looking for a way to become In­volved In charitable service and at the same time experience the unity and spirit of a fraternal or­ganization might well investigate the opportunities available In and through the Knights of Co­lumbus. 
~-----------------------------------------, 
~ 
A 
~ 
~. 

' ~ ' 
i 
A 

Parlez vous pizza? a question of taste 
Super Supreme pizza from Pizza Hut, diet Pepsi with Ice and people who speak English are three normal, everday aspects of life, right? Wrong. 
Mary Berger 
C'est Ia Vie 
After having spent weeks in France eating a lot of bread, struggling with the language, and feeling quite the foreigner at times, these things were outright cravings for me. Unfor­tunately, none of these were obtainable In France. Thus, when my friends and I were making travel plans, I agreed wholeheartedly with the suggestion of two weeks In England and Ireland. Visions of pubs, the changing of the guards, and the Blarney Stone danced In my head. 
After a bit of hassle In obtaining exit and reentry visas, finishing classes, and moving out ofour dorm, we were finally on our way Monday morning at 6:00. At 9:00 Monday night when we walked Into the hotel where the Notre Dame students In London live, we were giddy with excitement at being able to communicate In English. 
We dropped off our bags and headed out to find something to eat. Less than three blocks away we saw a Pizza Hut and without hesitation made a beeline for it. Even though we were talking, laughing and being boisterous, we did not stick out like sore thumbs as we were accustomed to. Savoring each sausage and Ice cube, we' finally relaxed. 
Some people may say It was crazy to come to England since we are participating In this year abroad to Jearn French and experience the French way of life. I understand that reasoning and think It's a logical point. However, my emo­tional counterpoint was more Important at the time. 
The first couple of weeks In Angers were really tough for me. I wanted to get to know all of the students from different counties but I couldn't. The language barrier had built a wall around me and every time I knocked away one brick. I turned around and another had replaced it. I was discouraged, frustrated, lonely and downright depressed. 
Life moved along though and I went with it. After eating lunch one day with a young man from Germany and never once slipping Into English, I was pretty excited. "Ok." I thought. "this really Is going to work." Classes went well, I got to know a lot of great people, and I became closer with those In the Notre Dame group. I got used to tllllng up on bread and going to the post office was a breeze. 
This break was nice though because I realized that super supreme pizza and diet Pepsi will always be there. I was able to step back and take a look at my situation and the great opportunity I have awaiting me. I am excited to return to France and the bread, the cheese, the people and the French way of life even If It does mean leaving the land of tea and scones, McDonald's, Mrs. Field's cookies and easy commu­nication. 
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC sailing club will have a meeting tonight at 6:30.at the boathouse on St. Joseph's Lake. Details for Area A's regatta in Ann Arbor will be discussed. -The Observer 
Tickets for Sunday's men's and women's Blue-Gold bas­ketball game are on sale now at the ACC. Prices are $2 for adults and $1 for students. Proceeds from the games will go to Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. The women's game begins at 6:30, followed by the men's game at 7:30. -The Observer 
Off-campus hockey players should sign their name to the roster in the NVA office and call Mike Kirk (277-1280) or Dan Gendreau (272-3867) for further information. The deadlin is Friday. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold its final practise of the fall season tonight at 7. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. All members are encouraged to attend. For more infor­mation contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 8 

Clinkscale criticizes Colts' attitude despite admitting season is through 
Associated Press He was on the sideline but did some games, we can gain a not play Sunday as the Colts little respect from the people INDIANAPOLIS Dextor were beaten 24-9 by Cleveland, of Indianapolis, and the teams Clinkscale is appalled by what their ninth straight loss. across the league and the fans 
he sees as a losing attitude "It takes 45 guys and the across the country. But as far among some of his new In­coaches to go out and win for as salvaging the season, dianapolis Colts teammates. a football team. The only thing there's no way possible." 
"I don't think there's any now we can hope for as a team Clinkscale was the third losers on this team. But from is maybe a moldipg of charac­player signed by the Colts in what .I could see on the ter these last seven games, get­the past few weeks in an effort sidelines, some of the guys ting that positive attitude going to improve both the passing of­have gotten used to it. And toward the future," says fense and defense. Wide 
that's pathetic," says Clinkscale. receiver Walter Murray signed Clinkscale, a veteran strong He signed a contract to play a four-year pact and has played safety who last week signed as with the Colts through the 1988 in the past three games, and a free agent with the NFL's season. free safety Dwight Hicks got a only winless team. "I'm going to work slowly contract through the 1987 
Clinkscale, 28, was a starter and probably start out with the season and has played in the for the Dallas Cowboys the past special teams, and maybe on past two games. three years. He had a career­the prevent pass defense," Coach Rod Dowhower has high 100 tackles and made Clinkscale says of his breaking given no indication when three interceptions last season in with the Colts. "There's only Clinkscale will see his first ac­but held out for more money, seven games left in the season, tion as a Colt. was waived and eventually and I'm in no rush. Right now, "They're bringing him along 
signed with Indianapolis after I think I'm basically a future slowly. At this point, he's learn­meeting with the Colts, Miami player for the Colts. ing the system. It's a wait-and­Dolphins, Detroit Lions, "There's no way the Colts see proposition," Colts' public Kansas City Chiefs and Los An­can salvage this season," he relations director Bob Eller geles Raiders. continued. "Maybe if we win said yesterday. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­
dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday thro1.1gh Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five

Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 
JAZZ, NEW WAVE, CLASSICAL, THE BEST STAFF IN THE WORLD, WSND RULES. (and by the way we're having a lund drtva.) Nov 2 ·8. 
Wordproceaalng· Typing 272-8827 
Wordproceaalng Call LaVonna 287· 8024 
AIR FORCE IS RETURNING TICKET BOOKS ON WED 5 NOV. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 5-7 PM. QUESTIONS CALL TOM £1888 
Want to llatan to tha BEST BLUE'S BAND In South Band? THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND Ia playing on WEDNESDAY et CHIP'S Ia pleylng on THURSDAY et LEE'S RIB'S "Cauaa even Domara gat tha Bluea aomatlmaa... " 
BED & BREAKFAST. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ON THE RIVER. $30 SINGLE, $45 DBL 884-1308. 
LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL TO IDENTIFY. 1412 
FOUND: Guy'a Swetch In 02 parking lot on 1D-21-88. Call Mark et 4113 to claim. 
LOST-cLASS RINGIIIIII J.A.B 87 BLUE STONE WITH GOLD N.D. 1100.00 REWARD CALL JOE 3078G101 
loat: atuolant l.d. card-SS£381-8&­3703. II found, pteaaa call SUaan at 
218-3847. 

LOST Friday night near Thaodora'a: black womena Gueaa wetch with whlta lace call 3481 
TO THE PERSON WHO TOOK THE FOOTBALL HELMET FROM STAN­FORD ON 1001: You can leave It out· aida tha door of 332 Stanford anytlma.No quaatlona aak8d. 
LOST KONICA CAMERA AT 107 CAMPUS VIEW 1001.1F FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-5073. NO QUES. TIONS ASKED. REWARDIII 
LOST: II KEYS ON A RING THAT SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED THEMII ANNETTE 284-4372 
LOST: BLACK, RAY-BAN "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES. REWARDIII LOST FRIDAY AT THEODORES. ANNETTE 284-4372. 
LOST: A LEVIS BRAND FADED JEANS JACKET; SIZE 44, INITIALS KVB WRmEN IN PERMANENT BLACK INK IN BACK. LOST MON. NIGHT (11Y.17) AT THE COMMONS. CALL 4384 IF COAT WHEREABOUTS KNOWN. 
LOST: aat of rm. 324 kaya, D1 kay, and varloua peraonal kaya on a heart ahap8d kay chain with Initial "D". Very lmportentll II found, pleaaa call Dabble X4287. 
LOST: A GOLD AND BLACK ONYX BEADED BRACELET LOST ON 1001. REWARDI CALL 284-4148. 
FOR RENT 

Guaate coming lor game need place to atey? Sllverbrook B8d-Braaklaat In Nllea. Clean, quiet, raaaonable. 618­884-2323 avanlnga. 
2 room efficiency privata entrance utllltlea paid 288-0855 mornlnga 
WANTED 

want a rtda, buater? The balgamoblle Ia on tha road again, looking lor RIDERS or a RIDE to PURDUE the day of NOVEMBER 8, 1888. For mora In· formation, or clearer Information call Gartla, 284-5125. 
FULL AND PART TIME WAITRESS' NEEDED. MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMITTY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 48801 
COMPUTER STORE SEEKS REU· ABLE PART-TIME HELP. NEAR CAMPUS. 2n·5028. 
I NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO THIS WEEKEND. CALL TODDAT1050. 
THE BEIGEMOBILE TO PURDUE Ia leaving et high noon on Friday, No­vember 7, lnata8d of 8 aa earlier ateted. II you'd atlllllka to rtda along (return Saturday aflarnoo.Wvenlng) glva Gertla a call at 284-5125. Thanka. 
Aida naadad to Naahvllle or B'ham for T ·Giving call Tim 3308 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND, SHARES. 
CALL STEVE AT 1087 

WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY 
PERSONNEL  15.00  AN  HOUR  
GUARANTEED  YOUR  FIRST  TWO  
WEEKSI  FLEXIBLE  NIGHT-TIME  

HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· TWEEN 4:30PM AND 8:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 2n·2151 
CAMPUS REPS NEEDED-TRAVEL FREE: Poaltlon lnvolvea marketing and aalllng quality akl and beach lrtp8 on CM~pua. Eam lraa trtpa end high commlaalon1. Call John Eldredge et a-t Daatlnetlona, 1-800-258-8181. 
Naad RIDE(RS) to INDYA'URDUE Nov 7 X2885 
In DESPERATE NEED ot ONE Pann Steta GA or Student tlckatlll Call Tharaaa X4041111 Will pay blgl 
Claaeaa In Tal Chi Chuan lor health ara atartlng aoon. Tal Chi, a Chlneea axarclaa form, will lncraaaa your aall confldance, ability to concentrata,and your awaranaaa. lntereatad call 2n­7152 alter 4:00 PM. 
RIDE NEEDED lor two to anywhere In Up8tela NEW YORK lor THANKSGIV· lNG (Rocheater, Syracuaa ...... anywhara) Would llka to leave Tua8day, Nov. 25 P.M. and return Sunday Nov.30. Willing to ahara uauel. PLEASE CALL Ellen X 4418 
Want8d: Jepaneae Language Tutor. 258-8808 
Travallleld poaltlon lmm8dlately avail· able. Good commlaalona, valuable work axpartence, travel, and other banallta. Call Brad Nalaon (toll lraa) 1-80D-433-n47 lor a complete lnlor· matlon mallar. 
FOR SALE 

FOR SALE: 2 Round trtp UNITED LIMO tlckata to O'HARA $45-valua lor $25. Call 232-8246. 
FOR SALE; FANTASTIC SMU AND PENN STATE G.A'S. CALL 2n·5837. 
................................................................ 
TICKETS 

2 ND-SMU GA'a 4 SALE; CALL 512· 735-2184 
I NEED SMU & PENN ST GAa.272·8308 
NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT X2174 
NEED 8 SMU TIX 
CALL JAY X2174 

HELPII HELPII I naad PENN STATE nxs. Help me ahow Ma nd Pa that my bro goa• to tha wrong achool. PENN ST. nxs for TODD et 131oor 1308 
I'm aaklng you nicely • Pleaaa aall ma PSU tlx (etud. or GA) Call Mlchalla B. at 4570 
BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS naad etud. or GA tlx for SMUll Let my backwooda buddlea -1 gamal Call Dava et 3283 MOONSHINE to all who halpll 
BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST•..PLEASE HELP ME .•.NEED 28 PSU TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 OR 1352. 
BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TlX ·CALL TJ -283-1888 
I NEED 1 PENN ST GA. WILL PAY BIG $$$1 CALL TIM 3314. 
SMU & PENN ST. GA'a FOR SALE 2n· 0288 
NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL JANICE 272-8818 
CASH lor 2·3 GA or Stud Tlx for Pan· nSt 2551 
I need 2 Pann Stele GA'a Kelly 284­4455 
Naad 4 SMU tlx. Will pay top $ I Call x3487 
HAVE 4 SMU GAS NEED 4 PENN ST GAS CALL CHIEF x1838 
NEED 2 SMU GA'S CALL 2288 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 2742 
NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL JIM 289-3482 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4-8 USC TICK· ETSIIF I CAN'T GET THEM, I'M DEADf PLEASE HELPI CALL CHRIS X2542 
NEED PENN G.A.'S.CHRIS 1736 
NEED 1 SMU STUDENT TIX CALL JOE £1888 
I need SMU ticket. Doug-2514 
I NEED 8 PENN ST. G.A.'S. CALL TODD AT 1050. 
I NEED ANY PENN STATE TIX. CALL RICH AT 272-8823. 
NEED 2 SMU G.A.'S. CALL LAURIE 1254. 
NEED 2 PENNST STUDTIX CALL CHRIS 234·5807 
NEED 10 PENNST TICKS MARIO 1173 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'a. CALL 238 5370 or 284 5105. THANKS. 
I need 1 Penn St. atu. tic. S$ Call Jon £2085 
I GOT SMU GA'S. CALL THE DUDE, 232-8153. 
NEED 5 PENN ST GA'S BADII FRED 288-8225 
naad 4 SMU atud tlx-cell 4215 or 1708 
HELPI I NEED 2SMU STUD OR GA'S & 4PENNGA'S. THERESA 4027. 
NEED PENN STATE GAa -CALL 283­
3848. 

NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU CALL SHEILA 284-5250. I NEED 3 SMU TIX CALL DAN X4101 
Naad 2 Pann State GA'a. 3054 HELP·naad 2 Pann Steta tlx-atud or GA-cell Krleten 11 1511 
I need 2 Penn ST. GA'a. Call 1352 or 
1441. I hava 2 SMU GA'a bargain prtc8d. Call Tim 3308 
Four S.M.U. G.A.'a tor ealelll Call Kathleen et £2824 
I'VE GOT 4 SMU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL JOHN AT 3580 
NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S HICH 1218 
ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE 
BLUE 

CAN I BUY 3 SMU GA'S FROM YOU call Patrick 234·2848 
NEED 8 SMU TIX BIG $ CALL 357413558 
NEED 2 SMU GA'!hiOHN 1722 NEED PENN STATE TIX: STUDENT DR GA'S WILL PAY $$CALL LOIS 284­5118 
................................................................ 
I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL FRED AT 288-2821 • 
THIS AD WILL NOT INSULT YOUR IN· TELLIGENCE, NOR WILL IT BEG FOR 1 STU DENT TICKET FOR SMU AND 2 GA'S FOR PENN. BUT IF YOU DO HAVE THESE, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE CALLIIII THERESA 284-4088$$ 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ATTENTION ALL OFF·CAMPUS STU· DENTSII . 
O.C. FORMAL TIX ON SALE WED., 11A5 & THURS., 11AI IN LaFORTUNE (tal FLOOR) FROM 3:30 TO 5pm $1GCOUPLE ANY QUESTIONS? CALL RACE 234­0882 
PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 808 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR S$ OPEN 7 DAYS FROM tD-5:30. 233­2342. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS MAIL CAMPAIGNS PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES TONIGHT-41:30 p.m. 124 HAYES HEALY ALL STUDENTS INVITED. 
MAIL CAMPAIGNS MAIL CAMPAIGNS PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES TONIGHT-41:30 p.m. 124 HAYES HEALY ALL STUDENTS INVITED. 
JUNIORSIIJUNIORSIIJUNIORSII 
JUNIOR NITE AT MACRI'S WEDNEII­
DAY, NOV. 5, 8-8pm -BE THEREIIIII 
IUt SANDWICH & SOUP SPECIAL 
-cOUPONS AT DOORII 
JUNIORSIIJUNIORSIIJUNIORSII 
................................................................ 
COME SEE SARGI 
COME SEE SARGI 
................................................................ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY: TOM, BEFORE I DIE, I WANT TO DO A STEWARDESS. JUST ONE. 
ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE IF I HAD A ROOMMATE SHE'D BE JUST UKE YOU. HAPPY LATE (but not for thet leaa alncera) BIRTHDAY KAREN HALL (lnataad of r-, how aboutlglva you a cookie?) LOVE, tha ona naxt door 
For thoae who undaratand, MARIA WHh everyday that paaaaa wHhout aeelng her, tha lear 11•-• from deep lnalda Afraid that today Ia too lata end yaatarday waa not aoon enough Still kaaplng hopa when thara Ia no raaaon to ballava Doing avarythlng thet can bt dona, but knowing that H Ia not enough Nothing comparee to tha hurt whan you loae balora tha ftght hea aven begun Kaap 1mlllng pretty lady 
COME JOIN US FOR LUNCHII Tomorrow ·11:30-1:30 at the Canter for Social Concema You'll ba gl8d you dldlll 
COME JOIN USIII 
CONGRATULATIONS MARY REYNOLDSIIII on your Rotary achol· arahlp. "SEHR GUT GEMACHTI" Ob­aarvar lnnabruckara 
SENIOR TRIP T-SHIRTSI Call 3851 aoon 
Hungry? Call Tha YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: Monday -Thur8day 5pm·12am; Frtday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm·1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm. 
GENERAL REMINDER: TEN MORE SHOPPING DAYS TO KEN DICE'S B­DAYI 
HELPII need a rtda to IU Bloomington thla waakand. Will ahara coat. Call Leurta 4012. 
FARLEY CAWNG Thanka for tile ln­aplratlon,ENGLAND. WE DID ITIII Wa'ra walling for you to maka It four. Mlaa U. From the FINEST with low. 
COMRADES! Coma one coma all to tha next maellng of the Little Stevie Worland tan club. Maatlng to bt held In the Rad Room of LaFortune Student Canter. Workara of the world unital 
................................................................ 
RIDE NEEDED TO MARQUETTE, OR CHICAGO NOV.7-e.WJU. PA'f GAS Ul4-4130 
~;;·niiNi<s·i·:c;;;;;;--·--·-·--·--·---· 
' 00•000000''"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''Uoooooooo 
SYMPHONY CLUBI F1111a of Eilzllbelll Garrteh, calllat axtr8ordlnalra, unital lt'a happening again let. New. II For a good lima, call Julie x3842 or Cindy x4501. (Eapaclllly II you have • -1) 
OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOHOOOOOOOHOHOOOOOOOOOOOUOOHO ..OoOOOoOOo 
D£AD HEADS: Looldng for qui. G.D. tapae to trada. I've got 2St Call Jim at 1143 
SENIOR IKI TRIPIII Today II the lut clay far lid Trip Slgn­UPI. 140 dapoalt due. DMM: Jan 17 I 18. Plica: Boyne llounlllln. TOIII prtca: at20. Umlted to the liNt 110 Banlora. Slgn-upa at Cilia Oflloa tonight from 7-lpm. IINIOR IKI TRIPIll 
ARTS AND LI!TTIRI COLLEGE SWEATIHIRTSI ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING HALLS OR CALL 283-1183. 112.00 
M-Let'a get WortdWida. Than, wa can hava an Intelligent converaetlon. -M 
HEY Y'ALL II THURSDAY THE WOMAN IS GONNA BE 20..•HA HA HAll {WIIINSTONI) 
................................................................ 
FOUND: ONE SWEET AND HAND­SOME GUY. I THINK YOU'RE GREAT, NOAMI JACQUEL (DOES THIS HELP? GIGGLE) 
HELLO, K-TOWN: How much is a wall-sized cuckoo clock? Where do we ski? Where the --are my cookies and brau? Hello, Amanda. 

The Observer 
Long nets career-high as Pacers defeat Sixers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Veteran John Long scored a career-high 44 points, including all11 of his team's points in the second overtime, as the Indiana Pacers defeated the Philadel­phia 76ers 125-121 in NBA ac­tion last night. 
Long scored the first five points of the final period as In­diana snapped an eight-game losing streak to the 76ers, giving the Pacers a 119-114lead with 3: 50 left. Charley Barkley, who led Philadelphia with 34, pulled the 76ers to within two before Long hit a 15-footer with 
1:46 remaining. 
Long, traded to the Pacers just before training camp after eight years with the Detroit Pistons, then deflected a Julius Erving shot, recovered the loose basketball and drove the length of the court to make a layup that put Indiana ahead 123-116 with 1:02 remaining. 
A layup by Erving left the 76ers down 123-121 with nine seconds remaining and Long scored the game's final points on a pair of free throws with four seconds to go. 
Philadelphia had a chance to win the game in the closing seconds of regulation and the first overtime. Maurice Cheeks gave the 76ers a 112-109 advan­tage with 1:09 left in the first extra period. A Barkley dunk with 33 seconds left, following a layup by Indiana's Clark Kel­logg, put the visitors ahead 104­101 with 33 seconds remaining. Vern Fleming, who had played the entire game without a field goal, then hit the first three­point goal of his NBA career to tie the game with 26 seconds remaining. 
The 76ers elected to play for the last shot, but Cheeks missed an 18-foot jumper. 

Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 
4219 Grape Road 277-6403 


The Observer /Michael Ury 

Freshman setter Taryn Collins has quickly be­previews the match against Loyola torught m come a major contributer for the volleyball his story beginning on page 12. team. Brian O'Gara features Collins and 
to a possible problem of refer­tions, or the hyphens, but it just ence is this area. With Indiana does not seem right for Notre
Items 
taking the handle IU and Illi­Dame. nois assuming the title U of I, I fear the day that the Irish
continuedfrom page 12 
the two are not often confused. are referred to as UNO. The has no real cure unless these But it can't be this easy consequences of this kind of disrespectful teams get out of everywhere. Is Arkansas change could be drastic. Think the rankings so everyone referred to as UA or AU or U of it. We could be confused with doesn't get confused. of A? Which does Alabama the University of North 
You know the kind. Teams use? How about Auburn? Or Dakota, or worse yet, they like South Carolina, which is Arizona for that matter? might start putting a hyphen in also inclined to be called USC. This problem is a very our name. The nerve. perplexing one indeed. One 
Or how about those Horned way to prevent some of the con­Frogs of Texas Christian Uni­fusion would be to allow the 
~II#IJ

versity going out and grabbing team ranked highest the right 
......,.

TCU as its frequently-used to use the initials. The rest title? TCU just doesp't flow like would be forced to use the full an abbreviation should. But name. This would make every 1,_.~ that's not half as bad as UTEP team earn its privilege to use for the University of Texas-El a shortened version of its Calendar Paso. The convenience is entic­name. ing, but the line must be drawn This is not to say that I'm 
Special to The Observer 

somewhere. totally against the use of ini­The worst problem occurs tials for universities and their Non-Varsity Athletics haswhen two teams have the same teams. They serve a purpose. 
announced the following dead­abbreviation and are equally How else could we chant "We lines for upcoming events:well-known schools. Who is the are ND" at our games? It also Tomorrow is the deadline for real OSU? Is it Ohio State or is helps teams, such as Okla­the following NVA events: it Oregon State? Or Oklahoma homa, fit their names on their Hockey: 20-man rosters, in­State? helmets. It even helps other terhall event, $35 entry fee and Is OU a reference to Ohio cute little songs about the insurance consent forms re­University or to Oklahoma? If teams to be formed. 

quired.

several obscenities follow it is I guess I'm just a little fear­Basketball: interhall men'sprobably a reference to Jimmy ful that someday the Irish will and women's, grad and clubJohnson. be known as UNO on a frequent events are planned.
Indiana and Illinois have basis. They may sound like Squash: student-faculty open worked out a workable solution good teams with the abbrevia­
tournament. Raquetball: mixed-doubles tournament. Table Tennis: singles tourn­

Mutz tries to lure Sox 
ament open to students, staff and faculty. Swimming: 50-yard sprint

over to the Dunelands 
tournament with head-to-head competition. Associated Press Terry Savarise, a spokesman In addition, a Nov. 14 dead­for the American League team . line has been announced for an 
CHICAGO -A forty-percent upcoming Turkey Shoot. increase in season-ticket sales The White Sox have been No advanced registration is is among the incentives an In­wooing Addison-area fans with required for a Nov. 11 Kayak diana official promised the a proposed 45,000-seat stadium Clinic at the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­Chicago White Sox yesterday in in their back yards, and voters ter. trying to lure them to the there were asked to voice Openings in NVA programs Hoosier state. opinions about the stadium in including aerobics, karate, 
Indiana Lt. Gov. John Mutz, an advisory city referendum on stretchercise and hydrorobics who also heads the state's com­Tuesday. are still available as well. · merce department, said he is Ifthe team moved to Indiana, Further information andtbr negotiating with six possible Mutz said he could guarantee registration may be obtained sites for a White Sox stadium a forty-percent increase in by contacting NVA at 239-6100 in the three-county Dunelands season-ticket sales for a period or by stopping by the NVA of­area -Lake, Porter and La of five years. He said is fices in the ACC. Porte. negotiating to get a working 
He said the sites were all capital loan at below market within 30 miles of Comiskey interest rates. 
Setter 

Park, the South Side stadium Also, through his position as 
continuedfrom page 12

where the White Sox have head of the commerce depart­played since 1910, but he ment, Mutz said he could ar­cates that she'll deliver in the declined to identify them. range "substantial financial her next three years at Notre 
"The state line doesn't make assistance" for public works Dame. a whole lot of difference" since projects in the area that would Ironically, the man who the proposed sites are in the serve a potential stadium. coached Taryn Collins in club same television market as All the potential sites are volleyball, from whom she Chicago's, Mutz said at a easily accessible by interstate learned the skills that brought Chicago news conference. highway and several by the her to Notre Dame, leads "The (TV) market area is Chicago South Shore com­Loyola into the match tonight what's important to profes­muter train line, Mutz said. as its head coach. sional franchises." An advertisement pitching Collins and the Irish seek to 
The White Sox, who have his plan appeared in yester­defeat the Lady Ramblers in been eyeing a move to subur­day's Chicago Tribune, and he the ACC Pit tonight at 7:30 for ban Addison, are not consider­said another would appear their sixth consecutive victory ing moving to Indiana, said today. and 22nd of the season. 
' 



The Observer 
Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 10 

APPholo McNamara. America's baseball writers agreed and named him Manager of the Year. See AP story beginning on page 12. 
has matched at this point of the season. He has started five games this season, and has played several positions on the field. And like Gross, he prefers the offensive role of wingback position. 
But his affect on the team is more than just setting an ex­ample. 
"His general attitude towards everything is great," says freshman forward Dave Augustyn. "I'd like to think some of it has rubbed off on me." 
Lett and Gross are part of the reason for the closeness on the squad, as well as the success on the field. The Western Mic­higan game marks their final week of their Notre Dame soc­cer careers, as well as the end of the season for the rest of the team. 
The Irish have not played the Broncos since 1982, so Grace has never seen the team. With the Evansville game ahead, Grace is trying to get his team to concentrate on today's con­test. 
"I hope we don't come out flat." he says. "They are com­ing in as an unknown, which is probably better," 
Grace was alluding to the Valparaiso game, in which the team, expecting to win, came out flat. 
Augustyn is doubtful for the game because of a knee sprain he suffered in the Florida In­ternational match. 

Britain takes close win in America's Cup race 
Associated Press New Zealand, skippered by Chris Dickson, defeated Eagle 
FREMANTLE White of the United States, with Rod Crusader of Britain edged Davis at the helm. The New­Canada II yesterday by about port Harbor, Calif., boat three feet in the closest race finished three minutes, 42 ever sailed in the America's seconds behind the winner. 
' Cup yachting series. America II, skippered by John Skippered by Harold Cud­Kolius, defeated Azzurra of more, White Crusader won by Italy by one minute, 30 seconds . .0295 seconds in the second round race which is part of the In other races, French Kiss series to determine a chal­held off a late challenge by lenger to the Australia. USA, Italia defeated Heart of Terry Neilsen, skipper of America and Stars & Stripes Canada II, was not certain he routed Challenge France. had lost and said he would like The first round robin series to see a photograph of the provided one point for each vic­finish. tory. The current series gives He said his bowman thought a winner five points. The third they won, but the 28-year-old series will give winners 12 Olympic bronze medal winner points. from Toronto, said the race committee's decision is final. The top four scoring boats "That's sailboat racing," he move into the semi-finals start­said. ing Dec. 28. The victory kept White Italia's win over Buddy Crusader in third place in the Melges and Heart of America series, three points behind the moved it into fourth place in two leaders, New Zealand and the standings with 17 points, America II. nine points behind the leaders. 
t-----------------t
t Ill ALUMNI ~~.:::=~~==~==~~:=:c:~::--*=~:~:::::: tt SENIOR ::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::~:::::::::~<M:::::::::::~ t 
l &!:CLUB l 
t t 
I WED-Buy your I I Senior Club I I Cupsfor$1 I 
t t t t 
1 LiHie Kings Drafts $.50 l 
! THVRS-Kahlua ! l Specials 1 
-----------------~ 
Skipper 
continuedfrom page 12 
The self-effacing leader of the surprising Red Sox beat Bobby Valentine of the Texas Rangers by a single first-place vote in the balloting conducted by the Baseball Writers Asso­ciation of America before the postseason games. 
Each got eight second-place votes and six third-place votes from a panel of 28 sports writ­ers, two from each AL city. But McNamara received 13 first­place votes, one more than Valentine. 
McNamara had 95 points based on a system awarding five points for a first-place vote, three points for second and one point for third. Valen­tine had 90 points. 
Gene Mauch of the California Angels, who were beaten by the Red Sox in the AL playoffs, received two first-place votes and 44 points. Pat Corrales of the Cleveland Indians got the other first-place vote and 18 points. 
The only other manager to receive votes was Lou Piniella of the New York Yankees. One voter had him in second place and two others in third for a total of five points. 
What separated McNamara from his peers in the managing business? 
"Roger Clemens," he said. 
Clemens, who was 24-4, was the ace of the Red Sox' staff and is expected to win the American League's Cy Young Award, to be announced next Wednesday. 
The last two Series games were a depressing conclusion to a season in which the Red Sox overcame adversity to reach their first World Series in 11 years. 
Few forecasters had predicted Boston would win its division. Serious injuries to starting pitchers Bruce Hurst and Al Nipper, Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd's mid-season suspension by the club, and a weak bench tested McNamara's ability. 
But the Red Sox took over first place in the AL east on May 15 and never gave it up. Despite losing the last four games of the regular season to the New York Yankees, Boston won its division title by five­and-a-half games with a 95-66 record. 
In 1985, Boston was 81-81 and finished 18-and-a-half games behind the first-place Toronto Blue Jays. 
Correction 
Because of a reporting er­ror in yesterday's paper, the score of the Howard-Zahm was incorrect. Howard won the game 7-0. 
WED. &THURS.: 
SORRY! CLOSED FOR CONSTRUCTION 
FRIDAY: 
open 8pm --Jam "THIS END UP" 
performance starts at 1 0:30 


Leaders 
continuedfrom page 12 
to get on the bus in five minutes or spend the night in Madison. The team rushed on the bus, but Grace did not show for ten minutes. In the dead of the silence, Gross cracked, "Well, I guess Coach is spending the night in Madison." 
Keeping the team loose is something Gross has done well. He has also been playing well on the field, gaining the start­ing wingback spot when co­captain Steve Lowney moved to forward. 
Gross originally was a for­ward, scoring two goals and registering three assists in his last two seasons. But he started practicing at midfield this year, hoping to work his way off the bench. And since the Connecticut game, he has started at wingback. 
"I feel more comfortable at wingback," says Gross. "I think my role at wingback is an offensive role -to make the overlapping runs. That's what I like most." 
Gross worked that overlap­ping play to perfection in the Connecticut game, centering a pass to Tiger McCourt who headed it home. It was Gross' fifth assist on the season. 
"I think he is having a bril­liant season," says Grace. "He fought to prove hismself, and he has done that." 
Off the field Gross is able to use his sense of humor to keep the players loose. 
"Coach Grace is real in­tense," he says, "and the un­derclassmen can get high­strung, so I try to ease the tension." 
On the field, Gross tries to set an example, as does Marvin Lett. But unlike Gross, Lett takes a more low-key approach in his role off the field. 
"I can't find a better exam-

Bill Gross 
ple for the boys to look up to," says Grace. "He's a stabalizing force on the team, and he keeps his composure on and off the field." 
Lett did not begin playing for the Irish until his junior year. On the advice of his brother, a Notre Dame graduate, he con­centrated on books to establish his academic roots. 
Last year he had two goals and an assist, totals which he 
~~~~~.........................................................w.e.d.ne•s•d•ay•'•N•o•v.em..b.er•5•'•1•98•6•-•p•a•ge...11 


Far Side Gary Larson 
Mark Williams 

ltVIIAT YOU SAY WE MAKE DEAL, 1-/EREYOVvO. PSYCHE I! fll? IF I LET YOU 60 ANP FlY 
YOU BACK TO AHERICA IN MY AIRPLAN£, WilL YOU PAY 11£ I \$1000 IN ANERICAN HONEY WHEN WE CET 1J.I£R£ ? 
\ ~ 
"Up! Up! Take me up!" 

The DaUy Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Jut out 

Beer Nuts 
THROUGHOUT THE ORO£AL,I1ARV 
J./AP TO FACE NOT ONLY PHYS­ICAL TORTURE ( WARH BEER ANO IIOUI'I.S UPON J.IOURS OF ORAL ROBERTS RERUNS) BUT MENTAL TORTURE AS 
Campus 
.. 
11:30 a.m.-1 :30 p.m.: The Center for Social 7:30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting 
6 Pub favorites 
1 0 Forward part 14 Cousin of 

Concerns lunch to benefit ''Big Brothel'!Big Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, 
Sister." Menu: chicken with rice, salad, and the Dept. of Anthropology Lecture. 
nom de plume

desserts and coffe&tea. Donation of $3 Theme: Critical Issues in Human Life, 
15 Ballot

"Development and Human Rights: The In-. 16 Go by car 
17 Express indignation 

12:00 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on Law ternational Campaign on Behalf of In­
and Government Lecture "Broaden the digenous Peoples' Rights," by Dr. Shelton 
18 Merit

Paradox: Moving Justice Further Left and H. Davis, Executive Director of the Anthro­
19 Automotive

Further Right," by Emily Albrink Fowler, ·pology Resource Center, Washington, D.C. 
pioneer 

attorney, Madison, Wisconsin. 101 Law Library Auditorium 
20 Solo of School 
"Star Wars" 21 Lots of 

7:30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting 
animosity

1:15-2:30 p.m.: Dept. of Economics Labor Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, 
24 Aroma Workshop, "Gender and Labor Markets," and the Dept. of Art, Art History and Design 
26 Dine by Kim Montgomery, ND graduate student. Lecture. Theme: Art in America: Values 
27 Out-of-the-way 29 Bait fish 

Discussant: Jim Young. 131 Decio in the Marketplace, "The Sculptor and Na­
33 By oneself

ture: Ecological and Site Concerns of the 
34 "La -Vita" 

2:20-3:10 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visit­80's," by Alan Sonfist, internationally 
35 Sch. subj. ing Scholar Series, College of Arts and Let­known site sculptor and author of Art in the 
37 Adhesive 38 Dame or lord

ters, and Dept. of Modern and Classical Land, Annenberg Auditorium 
39 Talk tediously

Languages Workshop. Theme: 
40 Islet 


All Rights Reserved
Perspectives in Classics. Topic: 8:00p.m.: SAB Lecture, "THe West and 
41 Cabbage type "Reconstructing the Roman Countryside." South African Sanctions," by Dr. William 
42 Count of music 43 Ruin 8 Raison d'­
Prof. Stephen Dyson, Wesleyan University. Minter, Editor of Africa News Service, 
45 Awe-inspiring 9 Judge's
109 O'Shaughnessy Washington, D.C., Washington Hall 
46 Wrestling decision place 10 PDQ 
47 Delay 11 Upset 48 Orange flowers 12 Track figures 
4:30 p.m. Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, Notre Dame Circle K will not meet tonight 
"Metal Clusters: Structure, Dynamics, and but will resume meetings next week. 
53 Army woman 13 Direction
Catalysis," by Richard E. Smalley, 123 
56 Arabian gulf from Greeley
Nieuwland Science Hall 
57 Qum's land 22 United
Dinner Menus 
58 Folklore dwarf 23 Sound 60 Darn 25 Ice cream
7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, Notre Dame 
61 "-but the holder "Destry Rides Again" (1939), BW, 94 min­
brave..." 27 Hindu music 62 Strange 28 -Island, NY
utes, George Marshall, USA, Chicken Fried Steak 
63 Butter lumps 29 Engine
O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft Ham & Broccoli Rollups 
64 Nibble 30 In a poor way 
65 Buckaroo's 31 Evasive contest technique
Vegetable Stuffed Peppers 
Grilled Pastrami & Swiss on Rye 
32 Stage drop 11/5/86 DOWN 34 Plunge 44 Recompense 51 Golf club 
7:15-8:30 p.m.: Fellowship meeting, The 
Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan­Saint Mary's 
1 Lively party 36 Kind of 45 Sault-52 Turner of 
Stanford Chapel 
2 Arm bone tournament Marie films
Beef Patty on Bun 
3 Snapdragon 38 Telling 47 Tendon 54 "It's a sin 
7:30 p.m.: Meeting, Government Pre­Ravioli w!Marinara Sauce 
4 Long fish secrets 48 Drive down to tell-" 
5 Art lover 39 Foyer 49 Original 55 Egyptian queen 6 Turn away 41 Asterisk thought for short
registration. Speakers: Prof. George Turkey Salad Croissant 
Brinkley, Sharon O'Brien, Library Lounge Deli Bar 
7 Bank business 42 Braggart 50 Man 59 Antique car 



S~orts 

Marvin Lett (3) prepares to head the ball in soccer action earlier this year. Pete Gegen fea­tures the lead~rship Lett and Bill Gross provide 
"They're gonna come in here Sports Writer • all pumped up to play Notre Dame," says Coach Art Lam­
The Notre Dame volleyball bert. "We can't look beyond team begins a busy five-day anybody--we have to take one span of games tonight with a • game at a time." match against Loyola in the The Irish are off to their best ACC Pit. This game is the first start ever with a 21-6 record. of four home games for the One of the main reasons for 
. Irish this week, who also face the volleyball team's success Dayton, Northwestern and Pit­this year has been the addition tsburgh over the weekend. of freshman Taryn Collins. A The Irish have met Loyola setter from Oak Park, Illinois, six times on the volley-ball Collins has steadily improved court since 1981 ; after losing her play and increased her . the first three times, the Irish playing time throughout the have defeated the Lady season. Coach Lambert notes Ramblers the last three times that she has become, in a short they have met, including twice time, a key part of the team. last year. The Irish seek to do "Taryn has become a the same thing tonight, but not decided addition to this team," without a fight from Loyola. he says. "She's a good compet-
By BRIAN O'GARA 
Lower arena sold out 
Once again, sophomores and freshmen will be able to purchase basketball tickets for upper arena seating. Tick­ets for lower-arena seating sold out yesterday afternoon, according to ticket manager Mike Bobinski. Bobinski also said that ticket sales were slightly behind last season's record pace. 
Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their appli­cation, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC between 
1:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. on the day specified for your class. The price for upper-arena seating is $45. 
Student basketball ticket applications have been sent out to all students with a campus or local address. Any student who has not yet received his or her application, or whose preprinted ap­plication contains an error in class status, should go to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC on a day prior to the one designated for his or her class. 
Students should note that the season ticket package does not include the opening game of the Coca-Cola NIT against Western Kentucky on Nov. 21. Tickets for that game will go on sale at a later date. 
The sohedule for ticket distribution is as follows: 
Soph./Law/Grad Students Today 
Freshmen Thursday Wednesday, November 5, 1986-page 12 

Gross and Lett lead in very different ways 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Though it may not be appar­ent at first, there are several similarities between Bill Gross and Marvin Lett of the Irish soccer team. 
First of all, they are seniors. Both have five points in scoring on the season. And both enjoy attacking offensively from the defensive wingback spot. But most importantly on this young team is that both are team leaders on and off the field. With only three seniors playing regularly this season, Gross and Lett have set the example for the team this season. 
itor with a lot of court savvy, 
because of her tremendous vol­
leyball background." 
Collins attributes her success 
on the court to that vast back­
ground, particularly her expe­
rience in club volleyball in the 
Chicago area during her high 
school years. 
"I played club ball in the off­
season my sophomore thru 
senior years, so I was playing 
year-round," she says. "We 
played three tournaments a 
month,. three to five matches a 
tournament. It's almost essen­
tial now if you want to play in 
college." 
Kathy Cunningham, the 
other. freshman on the volley­
ball team, also is a product of 
Illinois club volleyball. 
McNamara takes award 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -This time, John McNamara won a close con­test. 
Eight days after his Boston Red Sox were edged by the New York Mets in the seventh game of the World Series, McNamara scored a narrow victory yesterday to become American League Manager of the Year. 
"That was the furthest thing from my mind," he said of the award. "I would have rather had a win and let somebody else be manager of the year." 
But the win didn't come in the sixth or seventh games of the World Series, even though Boston led both, and some of McNamara's decisions were questioned. 
"You're going to be subject to second-guessers, but you stay with what got you there," he said at a news conference. "That's what we did." 
McNamara, 54, is the man who got the Red Sox to within one strike of the 1986 world championship after they finished in fifth place in the American League East in 1985. That accomplishment brought him the first manager of the year award in his 13 seasons at the helm of a major league team. 
see SKIPPER, page 10 
This afternoon they will lead the Irish against Western Mic­higan at Alumni Field at 3 p.m. 
The manner in which they lead, however, ends the similarities. Gross is the tension-easer on • the team, while Lett is a more low-key leader by example. 
"Bill will crack a joke to ease the tension," says Head Coach Dennis Grace. "He's good at doing that at the right time." 
The team remembers one time after a game in in Madison, when the Irish had played poorly in a 2-1 loss to Wisconsin, Grace told the team 
see LEADERS, page 10 
for 

Collins adds court savvy and volleyball experience to team 
Coincidently, the two faced the court, Collins looks each other in club play often. ways to improve her perfor­
Does the success of the Irish mance for the Irish. volleyball team, which was 9-14 "I've got to work on not at this point last season, giving away my sets," she 
surprise Collins? says. "The middle blocker tries 
"We're (the team) not to read the setter and where surprised at all," she says. the ball is going. I've got to try "We had hoped to be better, but to hold the middle blocker in we're not disappointed. We the middle when I set outside knew in the pre-season that we so the hitter is going up against had a good team." one blocker, not two. When the 
Collins admits that the ad­hitter is one-on-one with a justment to college life as a blocker, they'll probably get freshman student and a varsity the kill." athelete is a tough one. Just another way for the Irish 
"You're just trying to get into to pick up the key points. It's the swing of things and you're easy to see that Collins has high already behind," SQe says, as aspirations for herself and for a nearly-completed paper sits the team, and her play indi­in the typewriter at her desk. 
Despite her quick success on see SEITER, page 9 
Remaining Irish foes take the shortcut 
Notre Dame begins the abbreviated portion of its schedule this weekend against Southern Methodist. 
It's not the abbreviated part because of its brevity, but because of the teams the Irish will face, such as SMU, LSU and USC, with Penn State thrown in to keep it from getting out of hand. Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz does not really look forward to taking on the boys of shortened-version-name fame. 





