Indiana shantytown -page 4 

VOL. XXI, NO. 6 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bathroom valve 
causes second-floor 

Flanner Hall flood 
By J.CHRISTOPHER Moorman also said the valve 
MURPHY was not blown off but instead 
News Staff was removed. 
Smith said he called Dedrick 
A valve on a bathroom urinal when he first heard of the acci­came off on the second-noor of dent, but was referred to Moor­Flanner Hall yesterday morning, man. soaking carpets and creating an Smith said he phoned Dedrick 8-foot square hole in the ceiling because he wanted an adminis­of the first-noor study lounge. trator to see that the hall had 
Richard Froh, the section res­recurring problems with its ident assistant, said that by the plumbing. A similar accident oc­time maintenance got there the curred when a pipe broke off a water was four inches deep in fourth-noor toilet, nooding the the section. noor and those below it, Smith 
said. 
Plumbers from University Residents of the section, which maintenance arrived within I 0 has about 14 rooms, said they minutes of being called, accor­awoke to find water seeping un­
Freshman Danny Yu examines the damage 

ding to several section residents. der locked bedroom doors. done to his second· noor Flanner Hall room yes­
By this time water was already Several reported that their stereo terday. His was one of several rooms damaged 
leaking through the first-noor speakers and albums had gotten study lounge, creating the hole wet. in the ceiling and down into the Some students were forced to

Iranians search Soviet ship conference rooms in the base­miss classes in order to move ment. said Flanner Rector Brot­their belongings into dry places. her Michael Smith. Thomas Mason, vice president
Associated Press plying Iraq during its 6-year-old Gerasimov said he believed 

The dormitory staff is not of Business Affairs, said his of­war with Iran, shipping sources the freighter was carrying a load 
qualified or equipped to shut off fice will make a final decision as

Manama, Bahrain -Iranian said that weapons or other mili­of cement. He gave no informa­the water-pressure valve in the to how much the University willwarships forced one Soviet ves­tary goods were unlikely to be tion on the size of its crew. 
basement of the dorm, Smith compensate students for thesel to port lor a search and briefly shipped on Soviet freighters Shipping executives said an added. damage to their property.

stopped another in the Persian through the gulf. average of two Soviet or East There was no estimate of 
Gulf, shipping sources said. the European freighters a day ply the damage available yesterday. Although du Lac states that thefirst such action by Iran against According to an executive gulf waters. They expressed However, Director of Mainte­University assumes no respon­main arms supplier to Iraq. based in Kuwait. they believe the surprise that Iran would harass nance John Moorman said he sibilty for damages in such oc­According to reports from the Pyotr Yemtsov was loaded with Soviet ships while the Kremlin is considered the damage minor. currences, Mason said his office sources, the freighter Pyotr 

construction material, but the trying to improve relations with The accident is believed to 
has never taken such a hard-lineYemtsov was searched yesterday Iranians consider such com­the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini have occurred about 9:35a.m. 

approach.
at the Iranian port of Bandar Ab­modities to be an asset for the fundamentalist Shiite Moslem Froh said he reported the bro­But he added that the Univer­bas after it was seized the previ­Iraqi military effort. government. 

ken urinal to maintenance two sity did not intend on replacingous day during a voyage from In Moscow, Foreign Ministry weeks ago. He added that the everything damaged.
the Black Sea port of Nikolayev spokesman Gennady I. A Bahrain shipping agent said urinal has been broken since he Dedrick said he would have toto Kuwait. Gerasimov confirmed that the that knowing the Soviets, they arrived in August. 
see the articles that wereThe shipping executives, who I I, 750-ton Pyotr Yemtsov was are unlikely to create any fuss damaged before his office wouldspoke on condition of detained off the coast of the about the seizure of their vessel. 
However, Director of the Physi­take action to compensate theanonymity, said the second ves­United Arab Emirates but did not It was the first time the Iranian cal Plant Don Dedrick said that students. He suggested that stu­sel was stopped brieny yesterday mention the Tutov. Bandar Ab­navy had stopped Soviet vessels someone removed the valve dents look into homeownerand identified only as the Tutov. bas ·is about 120 miles east of since Iran began intercepting using a heavy screwdriver and policies to cover the damage toDespite the Soviet role in sup-the United Arab Emirates. 

freighters early in 1985. wrench. personal belongings. 



Soviets may charge U.S. reporter with smuggling 
Associated Press agreed not to say which officials Customs agents confiscated he met. the seven or eight pieces of Moscow -The wife of an Amer­Ruth Daniloff,wife of Nicholas, jewelry and have informed her 
ican reporter accused of spying said customs authorities called · they are being valued at $2, 2 I 0, said yesterday that authorities the Moscow office of U.S. News Mrs. Daniloff said. have threatened to press smug­& World Report yesterday to say She said that they said we have 
gling charges over familyjewelry that she should come to a cus­smuggled our own things into that she and her husband failed toms clearing house outside the country and now we are to list on customs forms. Moscow to sign a statement trying to smuggle them out about the undeclared jewelry. again. It is all just so stupid. It 
Nicholas Daniloff, correspon­She said, her instinct was just to may just be part of the harass­dent for U.S. News & World ignore it (the message). ment against us. Report. has been held without The Daniloffs listed carpets formal charges in east Moscow's and a diamond ring as their only The Daniloffs sent their Lefortovo Prison since Saturday. valuables when entering the household goods to the customs tic was arrestee! by cigl1t KGB country and when filling out house for clearance in late Au­agents after a Soviet acquaint­forms to leave, Mrs. Daniloff gust. she said. ance gave him a package later said. Her husband took up the Caleb Daniloff, their 16-year found to contain maps marked Moscow post 5'/, years ago and old son, left Moscow yesterday secret. was planning on leaving soon for to return to school in the United 
a new assignment in Washing­States. 
The chairman of U.S. News, ton. Mortimer B. Zuckerman. left Mrs. Daniloff said they did not Mrs. Daniloff vowed to stay in Moscow yesterday after two days list a pocket watch his father Moscow until her husband is 
of meetings with Soviet officials gave him for his 2 I st birthday, released, unless they want to aimed at winning the release of a locket that belonged to her take me out of here in handcuffs, Daniloff. 
grandmother and some rubbishy kicking and screaming. 
Ruth Daniloff, wife of an Americam reporter detained in MoscowZuckerman said his meetings old jewelry that she kept at the after being accused of espionage told reporters yesterday that Soviet

were productive in t11e sense of bottom of her jewelry box. She She visited her husband Sun­officials have threatened to press smuggling charges over family
a dialogue, but not conclusive in said they did not consider the day and Monday and said she 

the sense that he knew what the items valuable or believe they hoped to be allowed to see him jewelry that she and her husband failed to report on customs forms. Story at left.
outcome would be. He said he were made of silver or gold. again Friday. 


....-------~--~------~-~---~----.._---~-----­
The Observer 


In Brief 
The World Bank said Tuesday that at its current growth rate sub-Saharan Africa's population will increase from 470 million to 700 million in the next 14 years, and that the rapid growth is endangering health and frustrating development plans. 
The rate of growth of the population has fallen in all other developing regions of the world, the World Bank said. But Africa's population growth rate has accelerated recently 
from an average of 2.8 percent a year from 1970-82 to 3. I percent a year in 1985 and is now the highest in the world, it said. If this rate were to continue, sub-Saharan Africa's 
current population would double in just '22 years. 
In comparison, it said Latin America's rate of population growth dropped from 2.9 percent in the early ·1960s to 2.4 percent. South Asia's growth rate has slowed from 2.5 percent to 2. I percent. -AP 
Tim Thomas smashed up more 10,000 board feet of per­fectly good pine over the weekend, reducing the wood to truckloads of rubble in pursuit of a world'record for breaking boards karate style. 
The South Sioux City, Neb. man started bashing the one­inch thick. eight-inch long boards at 4 p.m. Sunday and would have broken the Guinness Book of World Records mark of 
10,065 boards at 7:30 Labor Day morning if he had not had to wait for a fund-raising ceremony. 
Thomas was breaking boards to raise money for the Mus· cular Dystrophy Association. He said he did not know how much was raised. -AP 
A mild earthquake rumbled through northern California Tuesday night, sparking dozens of calls to radio stations and police. The quake knocked pictures off walls but caused no apparent damage. 
The quake, which hit at 9:31 p.m.. was centered 10 miles southeast of San Jose and registered 3. 7 on the Richter scale, according to a preliminary estimate from the U.S. geological Survey's National Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colo.. said geophysicist John Minsch. 
The quake was felt as far north as Marin County and as far south as Monterey County. Sheriff's departments for Marin and Monterey counties said no damage was reported. -AP 
Father Thomas Streit, C.S.C. has been named rector of Morrissey Hall by Notre Dame's Office of Student Affairs. ­
The Observer 

Of Interest 
Theatre enthusiasts are welcome to an organizational meet­ing for Notre Dame Theatre tonight at 7 in Washington Hall. Technicians, publicists, stage managers and actors are needed. -The Observer 
The Overseas Development Network, a student organiza­tion for Third World Concerns, will hold its first meeting of the year tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
The juggling club will hold its first meeting for all prospec­tive members tonight at 6:30 on Fieldhouse Mall, or in Zahm Hall's basement in case of rain. For more information, call Dave Zoretic at 283-144 I. -The Observer 

Weather 
Snow is expected in at least two months, but today's forecast includes partly sunny skies with a high of 76 degrees. 



The Observer 

Tb~ Observer ( I '~ ~'N !.· tUUO 1 '"' puhh,ht·d .\fonda~ thruutch •TuJJ.~ t·x-.:t·pt llunn)( exam and '"louum peru•d!'l The Obstrver '' puhlt,lu·tl h' tht· 'ludt·nt!oot~l lht•l na\c:r'''' of :\nuc Dame and ~;,unl .\t~ ·!oo Cullt"J(t" . 
Thr O~rvrr '"" .t rnt·mht-r .,, Thr A..~ttOCiated Prr,~. \II n·pnK.luttuHt r&J(fll, .trt.· 

ft"""'r\lf'd 
---~-~--~-~---------r---~ 
Thursday, September 4, I986 -page 2 
·Thankstoyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 
•
Unitedway 


The Proof 
· Is In 

the Taste! 
0...Jlo...S•t 11••
s-•••

PIDD-Sandllllcha-Soloda 
Beer& Wlne 277-2020 Load..........._ (N..tto8•..,. 
Notre Dame 
Chamber Orch~::stra 
still has openings for strings and woodwinds. Immediate vacancy for oboe in upcoming concert. 

Contact Dr. Laura Klughertz in Crowley Hall of Music, Rm. 206 




ARTISTS! 
Get the exposure you need NOW! The Observer Graphic Arts Department Is looking for talented, enthusiastic people to fill positions as: 
Cartoonists, editorial Illustrators Cartoonists, series/humor Advertisement artists 
Graphic artists 
Pick-up an application this week and return It with example of your work. 
Deadline: Friday, Sept. 5 
CLASSOF'87 
SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGNUPS 
Tues. Sept. 2 ·Thurs. Sept. 4 4:45.6:45 Dining Halls 


Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
What is the academic and fonnation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training·:' 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How dol pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
For personal. confidential interuiew with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 For appointment. call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6358 
Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. 
'w.. ·. ,~.·.  0  ••'~,t  ~  
Holy+Crossh;it.~Fat ers  ·;~~,' . ' . .  li>_/'./' ..  
•  

Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 


.r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 3
The Observer 

U.S.S.R. ship aware of collision course 
Associated Press pulled from the sea Monday night, and maritime officials ap­
Moscow -The crews of both peared pessimistic about the the crowded Soviet passenger chances of survival for the mis­liner and the freighter that sing. rammed and sank it on a clear, There are no new figures (on calm night in the Black Sea knew survivors) to report, Igor M. they were on a collision course, Averin, spokesman for the Mer­accounts of the disaster indi­chant Marine Ministry, said yes­cated yesterday. terday. 
Soviet authorities reported no The (search) work will continue new rescue of any of the 3 19 for a long time, as long as there people missing in the Sunday is some hope, he said. night sinking of the cruise ship Officials have said the sea was Admiral Nakhimov. There was calm and the night was clear little hope anyone still would be when the collision occurred found alive. about I 1: 15 p.m. Sunday, an 
Seventy-nine bodies were hour after both ships left the port recovered and 836 people were of Novorossiysk nine miles away. plucked from the water after the The 61-year-old Admiral Nak· ship, torn open by the freighter's himov was continuing a Black bow, plunged to the bottom in Sea cruise with 884 passengers, about 15 minutes, too fast for 346 crew and four members of the deployment of lifeboats. crewmen's families aboard. The 
Frogmen continued yesterday freighter was carrying grain. to search the vessel, lying on its starboard side in 155 feet of Averin said in a telephone m­water. Radio Moscow said more terview that he knew that the two than 50 ships and a neet of crews talked by radio telephone helicopters were searching the and there was a conversation sea. about trying to separate their 
The last of the survivors, in­courses. It's not clear yet what cluding most of the crew, were really happened. 
Chernobyl evacuation plan
Jambo, a 252-pound gorilla, stands guard over Zoo in Saint Hellier, England Monday. The gorilla 
unconcious Levan Merritt, aged five, after he did not attack the boy, who suffered head injuries 
tumbled 20 feet into the gorilla pit at the Jersey and a broken arm in the fall. 

inadequate, say experts 
Soviets not buying U.S. wheat 
He said a translation of the in­itial Soviet plan was not yet avail­WASHINGTON -Soviet aut­able for comparison with U.S. 
Associated Press 
Associated Press The subsidy, whicl1 is paid by housewife. 
horities had to scrap their emergency plans.
the American taxpayer, was in­Lugar, chairman of the Senate 
prepared emergency plans and Denton said the direct causes 
Washin~ton -A month has creased to $15 per ton on Friday. Foreign Relations Committee, 
start from scratch to evacuate of the accident were multiple
passed since the controversial The aim was to reduce the price was among lawmakers who were 
135,000 people after the Cher­deliberate violations of proce­
decision made by J>resident to the world level. opposed, and he said Tuesday 
nobyl nuclear accident, U.S. ex­dure and design naws. The 
Kca~ldn to offer 1.du:at to tlw So­In justifyin~ approval of the that he had not changed his 
perts who attended an interna­causes are understood, the se­
del Union dt (Ut-r<~te prices, but deal, Rea~an said the subsidy mimi. 
tional conference said yesterday. quence is clear, but the details
1"1oscow so far has i~nored the would help hard-pressed Ameri­The two nations are in the third 
will have to be studied for a long
offer and time b runnina out. can wheat growers sell their year ofa five-year grain purchase 
Harold Denton, director of re­time, he said.
Sen. Richard Lu~ar, R-Ind., a surpluses. He was encouraged to agreement. If the Soviets have 
actor safety for the Nuclear Some I, 000 buses were used
·critic of the proposed sale, said take the action by Senate not purchased the wheat by Sept. 
Regulatory Commission, told the to evacuate 135,000 people
the situation is cmbarrassin~ for M<~jority Leader Robert Dole, R­30, the expiration of fiscal 1986 
NRC at a briefing on the confer­from an 18-mile zone near Cher­
the United States. He said the ad­Kan. in the United States budgeting 
ence held by the International nobyl, the site of an explosion
ministration cut the price even However. senior members of process, and the discount sales 
Atomic Energy Agency that none and fire that began April 26 and 
more last ~-riday, which demeans the administration, including opportunity will have passed the 
of their emergency plans were sent a plume of radiation around
the process further. Secretary of State George Shultz, Soviets by. 
adequate to the cir-the world. Thirty-one people died
To encoura~e the Soviets to publicly criticized the deal as Any Soviet purchases after that 
cumstance... the plan they and hundreds were injured in the
buy 4 111 iIIion metric tons of makin~ no sense. date would be credited against 
looked at first they had to throw catastrophe.
\\'heat under a previously ar­Shultz said the Soviets must the Soviets next budget year ­
out. All children in the evacuation 
ran~ed w<~in deal, the president be chortlin~ and scratching their fiscal 1987 -in which the Soviets 
Denton said Soviet delegates zone were sent to summer camp
;mnounced on Au~. I that he had heads about a system that says also have agreed to buy 4 million 
to the meeting, which ended last in the country following the ac­
decided to ~rant a $ 13 per ton we arc going to fix it up so that metric tons. 
weekend in Vienna, said the cident, and apparently were not·
subsidy, mcanin~ that American American taxpayers make it pos­
major lesson they learned was reunited with their parents until
wheat would cost less in the So­sible for a Soviet housewife to The Soviets have met their 
that there is an absolute need for last weekend, said Frank Conge!,
\ id Union than in the United buy American-produced food at obligations to purchase other 
a single coordinating authority another NRC official who atten­
States. prices lower than an American grains. 
.. . one person in charge. ded the conference. 

HUGE SAVINGS 


Major civil rights coalition
ON CALCULATORS 
attacks Rehnquist in report 
Associated t"ress lion to the fundamental principle sought to block blacks and of equal justice under law. Hispanics from voting). and in 
El 5400 Spec•al Pnce $35.00 
HP.ttC Sc.ent1hc $4100
El 5500 II Sc•enllfiC 7000 Washington -The nation's The coalition also contended his personal dealings (where he
HP·12CF•nanc•al 72.00 HP·15CSc•enhfte 7200
CE 126P Thennal Pnnter 5500 
7000 major civil rights coalition that he lacks the requisite candor accepted racial and religious
ik\i~~,_ijZWfQt'. HP·16C Programmer 86.00 El 506P Soont1flc iltl stepped up its attack yesterday and sense of propriety to serve restrictive covenants on his real
HP.T8C New' BusmessConsulfanf 13500
1500 

HP.41CVAdvanced Prog18mmable 126.00
El 512P Sc•ent•hc 2600 
El 5510F•nanc~al 7000 HP-41CXAdvanced Prog18mmable 17900 on Chief Justice-designate the highest judicial post in the estate holdings), the report said. El 5520 ScHtntlf.c 7000 
821 04A Card Reader 139.00 
B2153A OptiC Wand 9100 William H. Relmquist, arguing in nation.
EL 5155 Solar Sc•entrhc 1900 B2143A Thermal Pnnter 275.00 
<;rrCIAl~ .~ HA-..E. a report that he has opposed Supreme Court spokeswoman As times changed and a con­d.:'''JA0uurJM»•,or~f,:,ri-1P41C 2">00 
M<t~nP,u.. larHP .JIC CY•C)( ll90 equal justice for minorities at Toni House said there would be sensus for civil rights emerged 51d1S'•.:~Pa•*J'<-~P 4'C '-I/ C:ot 1~90 
every turn. no comment on the study, en­among the American people, Mr. The Leadership Conference on titled The Case Against William Rehnquist has sought to put a Civil Rights issued its report a Rehnquist: a 35-Year History of more benign face on his previous
CASIO 
week before scheduled Senate Hostility to Victims of Discrimi­statements and actions. But his 
F X 115M Sc•enflhc $1600 
debate on the nominations of nation and Unanswered Ques­explanations are contradicted by
FX 70000 Graph•c Orsplay 54 00 FX 3000P Setentlflc 1900 
Rehnquist and of Antonin Scalia tions ofCandor and Sense ofPro­others and by common sense, it 
::::: FX451 SolarScrenhhc 2100 • • • FX 8100 ScrentlfiC wtlh Clock 3000 as a Supreme Court associate priety. added. ••••• FX90CredltCardSc•ent•flc 1900 FX 995 Solar Screnhf•c 27 00 justice. The report reviewed his career 
F X 4000P Screntrhc 3100 CM 100 Sc~entdrc/Programmer 1600 While the report covered many as a private citizen, a Justice De­Much of the study covered his 
of the criticisms leveled at partment official during the record on issues such as school
CALL TOLL FREE 800·621·1269 
Rehnquist during his confirma­Nixon administration and as an desegregation, voting rights,
EXCEPT IllinOIS, Alaska, Hawau 
tion hearings in August, it was associate justice of the Supreme public accommodations and ra­
Accessones diSCounted too MasterCard or VISA by phone or ma•l Ma11 Cash•er's check. 
characterized by its use of harsh Court the past 15 years. cial makeup of juries.
MoneyOrd.. Pers Check(2 wks loclr) Sorry noC.O.O ·s. Add S4 00 1st •lem$1 ea add'I shpg & hand/ Shpts toIL address add 7% Ia• PriCes sub)IO change Untvers•ly/College PO's 
language. He has discriminated against
Welcome WRITE (no calls) for free catalog 30-day return pohcy for defect•ve merchan<hse Only ALL ELEK-TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW. 1ST QUALITY AND COMPLETE 
The Leadership Conference, the fair and equal treatment of Renecting on the early career 6557 N. Lmcoln Ave composed of 185 organizations, minorities at every turn: in the of Rehnquist, the report cited his said its main reason for oppos­legislature (where he opposed oft-quoted memorandum while a
~u~K-~~K inc ch,cago,IL60645 
~ liiiial ·I ~ • !312)631-7soo ing the nomination of Rehnquist local public accommodations Supreme Court law clerk in 1952
4 
(312) 677·7660 

is his 35-year record of opposi-laws), at the polls (where he to Justice Robert Jackson. 
The Observer Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 4 

Spectators at the Champlain Valley Fair en­joy one of the pig races recently. Robinson's Racing Pigs puts on a great show as the pigs race around the trackto reach a reward of an oreo cookie. Pig racing has become a popularsport at county fairs in New England. 
Indiana shantytown protested 
Associated Press 

Bloomington, Ind. -Some stu­dents are complaining that the anti-apartheid shanty structures built at Indiana University are un­sightly, but protesters say the op­position renews their zeal. 
According to Steve Bouton, a shanty dweller, lots of students have told them that they are making the campus ugly. The shantytown dwellers tell them that apartheid is ugly too. 
Shantytowns have been con­structed on the IU campus and at schools across the country to protest South African apartheid, a system of racial discrimination by a white minority against all non-whites. 
The IU shantytown was con­structed to protest the IU invest­ments in corporations doing business with South Africa. The protest has not been without in­cident. 
Two of the structures at the IU shantytown were destroyed by fire Aug. 18. None of the shan­tytown dwellers was injured, but many of the supplies of the protesters and rnuch of the anti­apartheid literature were destroyed. 
According to Keith Waterbury, a shantytown dweller, whoever set the fire destroyed a lot of ma­terial things, but they helped us spiritually. It just made us more determined to stay. 

Fred Crowder, another shan­tytown resident said that setting the fire didn't do anything to get us out. It just made us mad be­cause someone lit the fire with­out checking to see ifanyone was inside. 
When summer began, many of the protesters living in the shan­tytown left Bloomington for sum­mer jobs or vacations. But Bouton said protesters have planned massive protests for the fall. 
The protesters, not all ofwhom are IU students, also have plans to build a new two-story shanty structure. 
But Waterbury said that the shantytown dwellers are going to leave the burned-out frames up to show what kind of people that they are up against. 
The plastic, cardboard and wood shantytown structures were erected in mid-April after the IU trustees decided to divest stocks worth $43,000 from uni­versity investments in South Africa then valued at $3.6 mil­lion. 
Despite the ongoing protests 
to remove all South African in­
vestments, the IU stock portfolio 
in such investments has grown 
by $2.2 million since April. 
IU treasurer John D. Mulhol­
land said he does not foresee a 
day when the university will fully 
divest all its stock in corporations 
doing business in South Africa. 
He said the university works with a management consulting firm that reports on which com­panies with ties to South Africa are taking positive steps to end apartheid. 
According to Mulholland. the fact is that ifyou divest and walk away from the problem, it is not a morally defensible posture as opposed to staying in the bal­lgame and working for change. 
But the shanty dwellers, along with other protesters, have demanded that the university divest itself of all stock in corpo­rations doing business in South Africa. 
Bouton said that since the symbolic structures were built many people have stopped their cars on the street and gotten out to give us food, money and names of other people who might help us. 


Funeral planned despite ban 
Associated Press 

Johannesburg, South Africa Anti-apartheid leaders said a mass funeral for 20 blacks killed by police in Soweto would be held today in defiance of an of­ficial ban. 
The government issued tough new press restrictions yesterday to make sure journalists could not cover it. 
Families of some of those killed in the violence that swept parts of Soweto on Aug. 26-27 were called to police offices yes­terday and told to shun the mass funeral scheduled for a stadium near the White City neighbor­hood. 
White City, so named because it is the best-lighted part of the huge black township outside Johannesburg, suffered the worst violence last week. 
At least 20 people were shot dead by police in the Soweto out­burst and a gang of young men hacked a black town councilor to death. 
Leaders of anti-apartheid groups said they would go ahead with the funeral despite a Soweto police order Tuesday forbidding mass funerals of people killed by security forces. It says a service may be held for only one person and only 200 mourners may at­tend. 
The government of President 
P. W. Botha reimposed a rule prohibiting journalists from reporting the actions of security forces and added tough new re­strictions on news coverage. 
New press restrictions, issued by Police Commissioner Joha11 Coetzee, expand a previous ban on reports of security force ac­tions by saying any journalist on the scene or within sight of any unrest restricted gathering or security force activity must leave immediately. 
The restrictions, published in the official government gazette, replace an order issued in con­junction with the declaration of a nationwide state of emergency June 12. 
A government lawyer conceded two weeks ago that the order was improperly promul­gated because it was not pub­lished in the government gazette. Since then, on the ad­vice ofattorneys, journalists had treated the order as invalid. 

Professor resigns to pursue peace 
Special to the Observer 

The Francis J. O'Malley Profes­sor and the director of the In­stitute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame will leave the O'Malley Chair to become the University's first George N. Shuster University Professor, ac­cording to Provost Timothy O'Meara. 
John Gilligan, fanner gover­nor of Ohio, is leaving the O'Malley Professorship so he can put more time into directing the recently established Peace Studies Institute, said O'Meara. 
Gilligan, a 1942 Notre Dame graduate, joined the University faculty in 1979. 
He was elected 62nd governor of Ohio in 1970 and served for one term. 
Before being elected gover­nor, Gilligan served on the Cin­cinnati City Council and the U.S. House of Representatives. 
Appointed a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in 1975, he was later that year named admin­istrator of the Agency for Inter­national Development by Presi­dent Jimmy Carter. 
Gilligan also served as a gun­nery officer in the U.S. Navy and was awarded a Silvt>r Star for gal­lantry during the battle of Okinawa. 
The George N. Shuster Univer­sity Chair memorializes a 1915 Notre Dame alumnus who served as president of Hunter College from 1939 to 1960. While pres­ident there, Shuster performed a wide variety ol public services. 
In the aftermath of World War II, he served as U.S. land com­missioner for Bavaria. Schuster also helped found the United Na­tions Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), later serivng as the U.S. repre­sentative to it. 
Shuster was awarded Notre Dame's highest institutional honor, the Laetare Medal, in 196 I. Shortly afterwards, he returned to Notre Dame to serve as assistant to University Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh and to direct the newly-formed Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society. 
He served in that position. su­pervising interdisciplinary re­search in the humanities and the social sciences, until his retire­ment in 197 I. 
Author of more than 20 books on several subjects, Shuster died on Jan. 25, 1977 at the age of 82. 
IAMERICAN

Please WCANCER 
support the 'SOCIETY~ 





ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood Drive South Bend, Indiana i6Cd5 27 2-71 i i 

The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Copy Editor Day Editor Saint Mary•s Assistant Editor 
Those interested may come up to the Observer's offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or call Mark Pankowski, Tripp Boltz or Margie Kersten at 239-5303. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
t t 
t Attention all sophomore or junior t t Business, American Studies, or f : ~ ALPA majors: : 
: '( ' ~ The Observer Advertising Dept. I 
t . 1 ~needs SALES REPS. immediatedly. t 
t ~ t
t f
•Paid on commissions , .Previous sales experience preferred, f ' but not required
t f
.come fill out an application at
t t
The Observer, 3rd Floor, Lafortune 
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~
..... 
Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 5
The Observer 



N.Y. coed brutalized as security watches 
Associated Press 
Potsdam, N.Y. -Two university security guards who saw the bru­tal rape that led to a sopho­more's death did nothing be­cause they thought she was willingly having sex, authorities 
said.  
Katherine  Hawelka,  19,  of  
Syracuse,  who  was  beaten  un­ 
conscious  and  raped  on  the  

Clarkson University campus, died Monday at a Watertown hospital after doctors discon­nected life-support systems. 
University security guard Donald Shanty told police he saw the attack on Miss Hawelka early Friday on the campus in upstate New York near the Canadian bor­der. but did not realize what was happening. 
Shanty said he saw what he believed to be a consenting couple having sexual intercourse as he drove his patrol car, accor­ding to police records. Shanty added in those records that when the lights hit the subject he looked up at me and then turned his head back down. 
Shanty said that he didn't think too much of the guy and the girl being there because in the 25 years that he's been working as a security guard for Clarkson, he has seen students having sex in unusual places before, and therefore he really didn't think too much of this at the time. 
Another guard, Kim Avadikian, who was on foot. also saw Miss Hawelka being raped, police records show. 
The two guards discussed whether they should intervene and, according to Shanty decided to go back and park with the headlights on them so they would get up and leave the records show. 
They found Miss Hawelka cov­ered with blood, and a nearby wall blood-stained, Shanty said. Authorities said the woman's face had been smashed into the wall. 
Brian McCarthy, 23, has been charged with second-degree murder. Police said he was found lying near Miss Hawelka's body on Friday. 

Heavy toll 
Burned vehicles lay piled on a corner lot in Cer­ritos,California Tuesday where 15 bodies were recovered from the wreckage of an Aeromexico DC-9 jetliner and home after the midair coli ision 
AP "'oto 

between the airliner and a small plane Sunday, according to Garry Oversby, of the Los Angeles County fire Department. 
QUESTION #3. 
WHAT EXACTLY IS AT&T'S"REACH OUT-AMERICA''? 
a) 
A long distance calling plan that lets you make an hour's worth of calls to any other state in America for iust$10.15 a month. ... 

b) 
A 90-minute special starring "Up With People~' 

c) 
A great deal, because the second hour costs even less. 

d) 
If you'd read the chapter on Manifest Destiny, you'd know. 

e) 
Too good to pass up, because it lets you save 15% oH AT&T's already discounted evening rates. 



Over 7,000 
U.S. teachers on strike 
Associated Press 
More than 7, 000 teachers were on strike over contract disputes in eight states yesterday, leaving many of their more than I 2 I, 000 students without classes or in ab­breviated sessions. 
We are talking everything ­salaries and fringe benefits, Bar­bara R. gada, president of the Schuylkill Valley Teacher Assoca­tion in Pennsylvania, said of negotiations in her district where the strike authorization vote was 150-33. 
Donald f. MLrabito of the Pennsylvania State Education As­sociation blamed bargaining problems in his state on the legislature. which has failed to institute tax changes preventing schools from relying so heavily on real estate taxes. 
He said that local taxpayers have had it with the real estate tax increases to support school budgets. 
In ·addition to Pennsylvania, the hardest hit with 14 strikes by 3,456 teachers of 53,068 stu­dents, public school teachers were on strike in Michigan, Illi­nois, Ohio, Massachusetts, Washington state, New Jersey and Rhode Island. 
Walkouts also spread into higher education. The 426­member faculty union at the private Fairleigh Dickinson Uni­versity in New Jersey walked out yesterday, but about 40 percent 
of  classes  went  on  for  the  
opening  day  for  14,000  stu­ 
dents.  

The I 18-member faculty asso­ciation at Roger Williams College in Rhode Island voted to strike but classes do not resume until today. And 1.325 instructors at Wayne State University in Mic­higan held classes yesterday for a second day without a contract; bargaining continued. 
Teachers in I I I of New Jer­sey's 571 school districts are beginning the school year with­out contracts. 
More strikes also are threatened in Michigan at I 0 school districts and two commu­nity colleges, said Bill Davison of the Michigan Education Associa­tion. 

--~-.,...-------------~ --~~ 




Accent 
Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 6 

Between the lines. • • Notre Dame Ma • 
dent will write an article dealing
LISA COLEMAN 
with on-campus topics but it is
features writer 
discouraged. Despite the lack of participation in the teaching area

Notre Dame Magazine's cover of the University, the magazinebrings alive some of the many does run a small-scale internshipcrises of today. Its articles reflect program allowing one partici­life around the world and life in pant per semester.
the Notre Dame backyard. The There are several people whofaces on its cover radiate fame, secure the n·uts and bolts of theglory, frustration and poverty. 
magazine's production.

The magazine was estab­Collins has been editor for thelished in February 1972, with the past three and a half years.
idea of keeping graduates in Before assuming this position,touch with their past and aware Collins taught in the Americanof ways in which they and their studies department at Notrefellow alumni are shaping the fu­Dame. He also taught writing atture. Over the years its readers Saint Mary's College. Currently,have been informed and in­he teaches one writing course attrigued by the influences of the Notre Dame.
alumni and the events which fill Managing Editor Kerrytheir lives. 
Temple, '74, has worked for the-The chief objective of this magazine as a writer and editor

magazine is the continuing edu­since its beginning.
cation of the alumni,"said Editor Associate Editors John W.
Walt R. Collins, '51. 
1'1onczunski and Elizabeth"Any topic that affects their Peralta execute their positionsdaily lives is worth writing about:' with different styles.

Collins said. 
The magazine's quarterly cir­Peralta prefers the editing culation is I03,000. The Univer­segment of her job even though sity provides the budget for the she is a regular contributor to 
magazine along with aid from the magazine's writing pool. She alumni and other reader sup­will be leaving at the end of Sep­port. tember. 
Although strongly connected Monczunski enjoys writing with the University, the magazine various feature articles. He also functions with a completely in­has a keen interest in the field dependent staff of editors, writ­
of science and he stays in con­ers, photographers and desig­stant contact with the distin­

ners. A relatively small personnel guished alumni involved in both list gives the staff certain science and medicine. 
freedoms for varied tasks while "The alumni are both a reason 
still producing a professional for the magazines existence and magazine. 
a valuable resource for topics

The staff includes five editors, 
and information," said an art director, photographers 
Monczunski. 

and a varying set of free-lance Art Director Don Nelson com­
writers. 
pletes the Notre Dame Magazine

"In employing freelance writ­
talent. As director he is respon­ers," said Associate Editor sible for all graphics, picturesElizabeth Peralta," we have the and final layouts.

opportunities to tap multiple tal­Notre Dame Magazine is a 
ents from all over." 
magazine for all. Alumni, stu­

Students currently attending dents and outside readers alike Notre Dame do not work for the have some interest in the variety magazine. The editors said that of topics contained within its they believe that their purpose pages. The subjects that involve does not involve teaching and yesterday's graduates lead the they do not wish to interfere with incoming freshmen to tomor­any campus journalism projects row's milestones. Notre Dame 
such as The Observer and Magazine is a living part of Notre Scholastic. Occasionally a stu-Dame's past. present and future. 
The Near Side Mark Weimholt 
The Oh'''l\t't 'Tiht· "'1.1\ 

Walt Collins,'SI,is editor of Notre Dame Magazine. 


~  -_The__Qbserver The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: • Features Copy Editor • Features Senior Staff Reporters  Questions should be directed to Mary Jacoby atthe Observer office (239-5313). Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, Sept. 4. TheObaerver 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 48556  

How species group 

"ieVV~_O_i_n__f____________
T-hursd-ay.s-epte-mbe-r4._1986--pa-ge7 
HPC's ineffectiveness might be 
Since my first day at Notre Dame two years ago the debate about the cttcctivc­ncss of student government has gone on unceasingly. One of the questions con­cerns Hall Presidents' Council. Is it <HI organization whose purpose is the weekly consumption of pizza and pettiness or is it the most cftkicnt representative body on campus.·? 
Scott Bearby 
but wait, there's tnore 
Alter more than one ami a halt years of weekly coverage of the t1PC, I can say that the organization has shown flashes ol both. but fortunately each group of presidents l1as demonstrated that they do have a concern tor their h<JIIs, campus, and presidents' council. 
Student govcrmnent has an obligation to serve the <.ampus in terms of long range improvement in the govemment stru<.turc and in seeking to make a change above their daily responsibilities. However, student government must con­
centrale on those daily responsibilities as 
well. One or these daily concerns is the 
social happiness of the student body. 
The residence halls arc still the primary 
source of weekend activity and special 
events. With hall funds and assistance 
from the University and the Student Ac­
tivities !Soard, dorms arc receiving larger 
budgets and larger responsibilities to 
serve their residents. 

At some point last year the best of in­
tentions, forming a better student gov­
ernment, went out of control. Personal 
bickering, lack of trust and divided views 
made me too cynical about the organiza­
tion in order to cover it weekly as an ob­
jective reporter. As a result of their activ­
ity, the spring semester proved to be 
frustrating for everyone. Energies were 
devoted to destruction rather than con­, struction. 
Previous to this period, HPC had made 
progress on the campus and with the in­
dividual residence halls. It seems as if 
the new group of presidents have also 
gotten off on the right track in developing 
a concern for what the students really 
need. Too often last year the Viewpoint 
section contained negative sentiments 
toward student government and HPC be­cause of the turmoil the organizations created for themselves. I hope that a pos­itive article here at the beginning of the year will be an encouragement to keep the .Hall Presidents' Council focus as it is 
now. 
HPC has the potential to be the most effective body on campus because each member of the council has a direct inter­est in their decisions. They must go back to their halls and face the people who elected them and who they must live with on a day to day basis. HPC seems to be the most representative body on campus. 
Much has been said about the weekly consumption of pizza after meetings and who pays for it. I see no problem with the gathering as long as it goes to pro­ductive use. In my one and a half years of coverage I noticed the time as a way to share problems and for presidents to realize that it is not just hiSiher social chairman or committee who will not cooperate but that someone else is going through the same situation. 
But more importantly, the time should be used to plan co-sponsored activities. 
•

In the past 
Hall activity is fine, but the more hall in­teraction there is, the greater the chance for variety in activity. Co-sponsored ac­tivities relieve the hall from the pressure of planning all events themselves and they allow their residents to see new faces. 
Hall Presidents' Council, as it was ex­plained to me at my first meeting, is an exchange body. Too often though it is the other groups who address the council who provide the exchange. Presidents sit and hear about the latest group forming on campus or about the Christmas activ­ity scheduled by another group. This is important, but I would encourage presi­dents to provide time to exchange ideas with one another. I encourage all of you to be a unified support group. 
With a unified effort to serve the campus, the infamous past of student government will be set aside and Hall Presidents' Council will be the most ef­fective body on campus. 
Scott Bearby is a junior in the College of Arts and /.etters ami is Viewpoint Editor. 

Personality taken out of personnel search 
Welcome bel< k Domcrs. ,uJd a super welcome to all the frosh \\ IJo.l c1111 smc, arc having lots of fun and meeting tons of new people. ISy the way, I'm Carol ISrown, I'm from St. Louis. ami I live in Lyons... \•;hal's your narne'? Anyw·ay, now that w·c arc c1ll back from summer break, 
Carol Brown 
on second thought 

I \\OUid liiH' to slime w·itiJ you one of my more clitt-lwnging, edge of the scat sum­mer adventures. QU[STION: What's more difficult than opening that first len pound textbook 1has anybody tried it yet'? 1 and almost as frustrating as being in Chicago's Watcrtowcr Place w·ithout plas­tic tprctcr-ably in the form of a small, re<.tangulc~r <:<nell'? ANS\\'t:H: The Job­Hunt. 
Sounds pretty nlltll<lanc lor <111 adven­ture, hull'? You tl1i11k maybe I have wme just a little too tar tl1is time'? Oh., here goes. It c1ll began last spring, a spring like any other. I had a \\hole ten days ahead of me and yeah, I should really line up some sort of activity lor the sum­mer other than lying by the pool and .. . Lttll ... pondering life 1 i.e. doing noth­i.ngl. ISut spring brcal\ was so nice. and 
Doonesbury 
sun11ner was so far away. Why should I worry·? I'll just get a fun job this sunm1cr, make some bucks, meet some people. It will be a cinch! tOr so I thought). Aaah. . . those were the carefree days of my youth. tSo it's a little dramatic). Those were the days before I encountered The Application and The Manager. 
Let's start with The Applic<Jtion. Set:NARIO JOIS-5t:ARCH: Student inno­cently enters establishment. eager and w·ith hopes or quick <Jml sure employ­ment. 
Hi! lm looking for a... 

Have you fillccl out an application'? 
Not yet. but I. .. " 

t:nough said. The white paper is soon in this student's face, prying into my pcr­sonallifc. Yes, I'm a U.S. citizen, over 18, 
no felonies thank you! References --ask my morn! Why do I want to work'? Uh, starvation comes to mimi. Come on, is my social security number the key to life or something'? What about my sparkling personality and the fact that I love dan­cing, sports, parties and icc cream. No, I don't t11ink we should tell kicls about the 
t:aster !Sunny and Santa! I love .Motown an<II think tailgating is one of the greatest inventions since weekends. That's Carol !Srown. not a piece of paper in black and white print. 
What ever happened to those nostalgic days when jobs were mack on a hand­shake over an ice cream soda? Where did all of this application stuff start anyway'? It"s inhuman! It"s un-Amcrican! The way I see it, The Application is just another by­product ofan already superstructured, in­stant. prefab society. It is a ploy by all the statisticians to put people into neat little packages. Great idea, but some­where along the way someone forgot that people cannot be processed, decaf­feinated, ami vitamin and mineral en­riched with no artificial colors, flavorings, or preservatives added. Sorry, we just do not come in instant form. Kind of makes you feel like a packet of oatmeal doesn't it? I do not know ... maybe it is just me. 
Have you ever really looked at an ap­plication? The thing asks you everything from your mother's maiden name to your shoe size! The item I really love is list experience. How much experience do you need to scoop ice cream?! What do you write? I have been involved in directing the dispersal of frozen food products since I was four. Come on! This stuff can get ridiculous! 
And to really add icing to the cake, sometimes after spending several intense minutes unloading my deepest personal secrets onto this piece of paper, I would return with it to speak with the manager only to hear, Sorry, we are not hiring, but thanks for the interest. What gives? What 
Garry Trudeau 
THAT'S qJM£ BAY Y()(J 
(H£'5
NICE. EJCAG-fHEAIJ.

fJ/HAT'5 !T'5CAUEJ
GOTf}()IAJN TH/31?13. 51, 5CNOR. 
Af)/rl/RJNG
I MeAN, /3CAG-f.

ITCAUW? 8AHfAPel05
LOOKS PR&TTY tr's ALWAYS 
7H£8AY

AWRANITOS. 
\ OF P16/£JS.)
PRO[f-CTW-V&RYCALM. 
\ 

I 
I
I• 
happens to all of those worthless appli­cations? I'm tempted to think that they become interesting reading for managers on off days. 
Speaking of the manager, where is he? Go look for one of these mystical managers and you will find he is out for the afternoon or in a meeting that has been going on since 1963. What's the deal? Where do these vanishing people come from? Is this a requirement to be­come a manager? 
And what about the people who say, We will look over your application and call you in a couple of days. A couple of days? Try never. Apparently these people have yet to discover that technical marvel called the telephone. These people must come from the same place as those guys who, after a date, throw in the infamous I will call you. Uh-huh, right. 
So what is my solution to avoiding the pitfalls of thejob hunt? Easy. Do not work, or become an invisible manager. Listen. I've really got to go now, but if you ever want to comment about my column feel free to drop me a line and I will get back with you in a couple of days... really! 
Carol Brown is a Junior in the College ofArts ami Letters ami is a regular View­point columnist. 

Quote of tile day 

As I was going to St. lves, 
I met a man with seven wives, 
Each wife had seven sacks, 
Each sack had seven cats, 
Each cat had seven kits: 
Kits, cats, sacks, and wives, 
How many were there going to St. 
lves? Nursery Rhyme Answer in tomorrow's edition 
General Board 

The Observer 
Ed•to' m-Ch•el Joe Murphy Busmess Manager Er1c Scheuermann Ma.nagmg Ed•tor Kev1n Becker Controller Alex VonderHaar
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
V•ewpomt Edlfor Scott Bearry ProduCtion Manager Chros Bowler Sports Ed1tor Denn1s Corrogan Photography Manage' James Carroll The Observer 1S the Independent newspaper publoshed by the students of the Un1ver­Accent Ed• tor Mary Jacoby Advert1smq Manaqer Anne M.Cullogan s1ty of Notre Dame duLac and Saont Mary's College 11 does not necessar.ty reflect the ~al'l! Ma1y·s Ed1/or 
Margoe Kersten Systems Manager Shawn Sexton poloc1es ol the admon1stratoon ol eolher onsl1lul10n The news IS reported as accurately 
News EdlfOI Tropp Baltz GraphiC Arts Manager Mark Weomholl and Ob)t~Ctovely as poSSible Unsogneo ed1toroals represent the opon1or ol a ma1oroty of News Ed1tor. Mark Pankowsko the Ed1!oroal Board Commentaroes. letters and the lnsode Column present the v1ews of theor authors Column space 1s ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free expressoon of varv1nq opon1ons on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 8
The Observer 

Backers 
continued from page 12 
Flash (Darrell) Gordon has taken advantage of the opportunity and hes on the first team at the present time, playing awfully, awfully welL'' 
Gordon, ajunior, saw less than 30 minutes of playing time last season, and is the probable starter at outside linebacker in next Saturday's opener against Michigan. 
Perhaps the closest battle for position in the entire defense is the struggle between junior Wes Pritchett and senior Ron Weis­senhofer for the starting inside linebacker spot alongside Kovaleski. 
Fazio said Weissenhofer cur­rently has the edge because of circumstances beyond anyone's control -illness. 
"Right now Pritchett is under the weather and hes going to miss a cou~le of valuable days, "'Fazio said.' Both of the guys had an excellent physical camp and mental preparation is very im­portant now. 
"Pritchett was doing well and I thought Ron Weissenhofer had his best game in our last scrim­mage. If we had to line up right now I think Weissenhofer would start, but Pritchett might go in right away too. Hes deserving to play.'' 


Darrell Gordon 
Sophomore Ned Bolcar is also 

a sure bet to see some playing 
time during the course of the 

season behind Kovaleski or 
Weissenhofer at inside lineback­
er. Bolcar was the Parade mag­
azine co-player of the year as a 
prep senior, but has yet to see 

any action in a Notre Dame jer­
sey. 
Also back at the inside slot is 

sophomore Mark Nigro, who 
played defensive tackle in the 
spring after working as a 
linebacker last fall. Holtz noted 
the play of freshman Mike 

Stonebreaker in a recent press 
conference, so it appears depth 
at the inside backer position will 
not be a problem.
'\were' gett'mg there,"Fano· sa1'd. 111Ve always said I dorit know if we have enough time to get in every­thing we want to get in, but right now we're at the point of trying to refine some of the things 
we've been doing. 
'~ think the guys have some 

poise about them, they seem to 
be intelligent enough to pick up 
the now of the game and make 
the adjustments correctly. 
They're an aggressive, physical 
bunch too. They like to mix it up 
and hit and thats very impor­
tant.'' 

Volley 
continued from page 12 last year. Either Big Ten foe presents a formidable challenge for Lambert's squad. The Hoosier Classic begins Friday at the ACC with Purdue facing Ball State at 6:3.0 p.m. fol­lowed by the Indiana-Notre Dame matchup at 8:30 p.m. The consolation and champi­onship games will take place Sat­urday at 2:00p.m. and 4:00p.m. respectively. There is no admis­sion charge. 



Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame Judo Club holds its first practice Sunday from 2-4 p.m. in Room 219 Rockne. Beginners should wear loose clothing with long sleeves and any newcomers are welcome. Further information may be obtained by contacting Rob'Detzner at 232-6917 or Sara Harty at 3427.-The Observer 
Angela Athletic Facility is looking for people interested in being officials for nag football. Officials earn $5 per game. Anyone interested should contact Mary Lou Thompson at 284-5546. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Windsurfing Club will be gJvmg free windsurfing lessons today at 3:30 p.m. on the beach of St. Joe's Lake. Further information may be obtained by contact­ing Carter Thomas at 1605. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team holds its first annual golf outing Saturday at I p.m. on the Burke Memorial GolfCourse. Anyone interested in playing should call Dick Milone at 289­4613 or Doug Spencer at 283-2095. -The Observer 




Mist
canadian 15)
$10.99 {1· 
The N[}'SMC Sailing Club will hold its first meeting of the season tonight at 6:30 on St. Joe's Lake. Further information may be obtained by contacting Tony Fink at 3353. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame TaeKwonDo Club will have its first meeting tonight at 7 in the ACC's fencing gym. Further information may be obtained by contacting Dan Mischke at 4 I 0 1. -The Observer 
A demonstration ofNorthern Shaolin Kung Fu is scheduled, along with a meeting, for Saturday at 6 p.m. in room 2 19 Rockne. A class will be offered soon with exercises, self­defense techniques and forms from the Nor'thern Sil Lum Dragon style being taught. Further information may be ob­tained by contacting David Scott at 3084. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame varsity track and field team will hold its first meeting today at 3:45 p.m. on the indoor track. -The Observer 
All prospective members of the Saint Mary's varsity basket­ball team are asked to attend a meeting at Angela Athletic Facility Monday at 6 p.m. -The Observer 

Prices Good 9-2-86 thru 9-6-86 
BUD 
Michelob 1/2 KEG Reg. $29.99 Light (S.B.Ave. store only) Dark $8.99 
case 


Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 9

The Observer 
Consistent Stewart earns some respect 
Associated Press first golfer to repeat as champion of the tournament. 
ENDICOTT, N.Y. Payne First prize was increased from Stewart. known on the PGA tour $54,000 to $72,000 this year in for wearing knickers and lor an effort to attract a better field using acupuncture to improve to the four-day tournament. The his game, is also earning a new event historically has been reputation this year for being one skipped by top golfers because 
of the steadiest performers. of the B.C. open's lack of pres­
Stewart. No. 6 on the tour's tige, its placement on the tour money list. has had 13 top I 0 schedule and it's out-of-the-way finishes, more than any other location, said tournament golfer this year except PGA cham­spokesman Pat Vavra. pionship winner Bob Tway, who Stewart is the highest ranking also has 13. money winner in the field this 
Yet. Stewart has not won a year. tournament since 1983. The tournament. named after 
He will be trying to break that the cartoon strip B.C. drawn by winless string Thursday when the Johnny Hart. who grew up here, $400,000 B.C. open begins at is not nationally televised. the 6, 966-yard, par-71 En-Joie About his knickers, which he Golf Club. promises he will be wearing all 
• fr11 very patient." Stewart said, four days, Stewart said,"The first when asked if he feels overdue time I wore them for all four days in the 34 months since his last of a tourney, at Quad Cities (in win. I have a long-line view. 1982), I got my first tour win, so 
New York Mets first baseman Keith Hernandez tags Stewart will be competing lve worn them without fail ever 
San Francisco second baseman Robby Thompson during a pickoff attempt. The Mets defeated the
against more than 70 other gol­since." fers including defending cham­He didn't wear them yesterday pion and local favorite Joey Sin­and some people had trouble delar, who will try to become the identifying him. 
Red Sox maintain AL East lead NCAA investigation 
Associated Press league career. Stanley is 6-5 this 
Mets 4, Giants 2 

season. Boston 4, Texas 3 Dale Mohorcic, 2-2, the third NEW YORK-Bob Ojeda pitched 
BOSTON Wade Boggs Texas pitcher, took the loss. a three-hitter, matching his doubled home pinch-runner career best. and earned his 




mentions NO players 
Royals 2, White Sox 1
the filming of the advertisement. LaSchelle Tarver with one out in fourth straight victory as the New
By MARTY STRASEN 11 Assistdnl Sports t:ditor 1f the Army thinks that putting the ninth inning and the Boston KANSAS city, mo. (AP) willie York Mets defeated the San Fran­a famous football player on the Red Sox charged to their fifth Wilson dashed home from third cisco Giants 4-2 last night. While the NCAA's investigation screen isnt promotion of the 
consecutive victory last night base on Kevin Seitzer's infield Ojeda, 16-4, struck out seven of a United States Army commer­
Army, 11 the source said,'' they~e with a 4-3 decision over the single with one out in the I Oth and walked only one in his 
cial involving former Notre Dame crazy."' Texas Rangers. inning Wednesday night, lifting seventh complete game. The 
football players Alan Pinkett and Evrard, however, said the uni­The Red Sox, maintaining their the Kansas City Royals to a 2-I three-hitter was the fifth of his Greg Dingens still appears to be versity should not worry about 4 1/L·game lead over Toronto in victory over the Chicago White five-year major league career. pending, everyone involved any charges. He said details the American League East Sox. Ray Knight had a pair of should be cleared of charges, ac­about the investigation could not rebounded after Texas had Seitzer, a rookie, was credited singles in four at bats and drove 
cording to information given by yet be released. pulled into a 3-3 tie in the top of with a sirmle on the high bouncer in one run for the Mets. NCAA official Rick Evrard. In regard to the investigation the ninth. to third baseman Dave Winless Terry Mulholland, a 
The Sept. I issue of Sports Il­itself, Evrard said, we can neither Mike Greenwell opened the Cochrane, who fielded the ball rookie left-hander, lost his sixth lustrated quoted an unnamed of­confirm nor deny anything at this Boston ninth with a single and barehanded but threw wide to straight. ficial as saying the NCAA was point. was replaced by Tarver. Spike the plate. 
looking into the possibility that "In regard to the specific ads, Owen struck out trying to The winner in relief was Bud Pirates 5, Reds 3 Notre Dame might have violated about whether there is a viola­sacrifice, but Boggs lined a 3-2 Black, 5-7, while reliever Gene NCAA rules prohibiting college tion, the issue at stake is whether pitch to left-center, scoring Tar­Nelson, 5-6 took the loss. CINCINNATI -Sid Bream hit a athletes from promoting com­the players were promoting a ver. Boggs went 3-for-5, includ­Bo Jackson, the Royals' Heis­two-out double in the I Oth inning mercial ventures when Pinkett commercial product. which is ing a home run. man Trophy winner who was 1-to drive in two runs and lift the and Dingens appeared in the against NCAA rules. It is an issue Bob Stanley, who replaced for-3 in his major-league debut Pittsburgh Pirates to a 5-3 victory commercial. only up to that point. and the starter Tom Seaver to start the Tuesday night, struck out three over Cincinnati, snapping the The magazine also pointed out United States Army is not a prod­ninth, earned the victory, the times Wednesday night and went Reds' six-game home winning that the university cooperated in uct as far as I can see." 
IOOth of his I0-year major-0-4. streak. With John Franco, 5-5, pitching. Johnny Ray singled and one out later was forced at second on a grounder by R.J. reynolds. After Tony Pena walked, Bream doubled to right­center field to score both run­ners. Larry Jones, 2-2, pitched two innings of scoreless relief to earn the victory. The Pirates tied 

The Student Activities B·oard 
presents a Thanksgiving Vacation Package to 
the score 3-3 against reliever Ron 

---~ Robinson in the eighth inning when Ray singled with two outs and Jim Morrison followed with his 17th home run of the season.

N.D. vs. U.S.C. 
Padres 7, Phils 5 
PHILADELPHIA -Terry Ken­



football Game 
nedy hit a three-run double as San Diego rallied for six un­earned runs with two out in the ninth inning to beat the Philadel­

Thursday, Nov. 27 ­
phia Phillies 7-5 last night. Bob Stoddard, 1-0, pitched two-thirds of an inning to gain


Nov. 30 
the victory while Lance McCullers got his third save with a scoreless

$37Qiperson quad occupancy at the Hyatt incl. 
ninth. Bedrosian, 8-4, was the airfare, hotel, all transfers, game ticket loser. 
$266/person --airfare, game ticket Twins 11, Brewers 5 $50 deposit due Fri., Sep. 5 
MINNEAPOLIS kirby Puck-

Balance due Sep. 30th refundable up to Oct. 28th 
ett, Tom Brunansky and AI Woods hit home runs Wednesday Sign up Mon., Sep. l -Fri., Sep. 5 night. powering the Minnesota Twins past the Milwaukee
lower level Lafortune 2:30 p.m. -4:30 p.m. 
Brewers I I -5. 

Puckett. who went 4-for-5, and ONLY 125 PLACES... Brunansky both connected for Sept. 5th two-run shots during a five-run 
~~!a(i!0Glli:><S!Ia<SltaC~~~~~~~~~~til~~~Jl~~rd~~i~r(~~~~~~~~r(~~~~~Jl~~~~~~~~~ second inning against Ted
CZl Higuera, 17-9. 

Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page 10

The Observer 

Sweden's Edberg eliminates last American in U.S. Open 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Tim· Wilkison's dream of reaching the semifinals of the U.S. open Tennis Cham­pionships was shattered last night as Sweden's Stefan Edberg eliminated the last American in the men's singles, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3. 
It's the first time since 1966 that no American ha,s made it into the semifinals of America's premier tennis event. 
Earlier Wednesday, aerenomy men's champion Ivan Lend! made the semifinals for the fifth straight year and Chris Evert Lloyd extended her record streak by gaining a berth in the wo­men's semifinals for the 16th consecutive year. 
Lend! defeated eighth-seeded Henri Leconte of France 7-6, 6-1. 1-6, 6-1. while Lloyd brushed aside ninth-seeded Manuela Maleeva of Bulgaria 6-2, 6-2. 
In another women's quarter­final match, No. 7 Helena Sukova of Czechoslovakia ousted Australia's Wendy Turnbull 6-4, 6-0. 
In the women's semifinals, which will be played Friday, Lloyd 
day specified for your class. Tickets will not be distributed at Gate 3 as was originally printed on student applications. 
Special to The Observer
A limit of four applications may be presented together per student. provided that the individual presenting the applications Non-Varsity Athletics has an­has all four I. D. cards. Married students wishing to purchase a nounced some upcoming eventsticket for their spouse must show proof of marriage. The ticket and deadlines for its fall pro­for the spouse will be the same price as a regular student ticket. 
grams. The deadline for a Putt-Putt
The schedule for ticket distribution is as folfows: 

goIf tournament is tomorrow and two-man teams arc required. The tourney gets under way Sun­
Freshmen Today 
day at 7 p.m., and transportation will be provided. Scuba diving classes also 
Nebraska football players suspended in scandal 
will play Sukova and top-seeded Martina Navratilova, seeking her third title in four years, will face West Germany's Stcffi Graf. the No. 3 seed. 
The men's semifinal pairings will be completed Thursday when Wimbledon champion Boris Becker of West Germany plays Czechoslovakia's Milan Srejber and seventh-seeded Joakim Nystrom of Sweden lakes on No. 16 Miloslav Mecir of Czec­hoslovakia, the winners meeting on Saturday. The other semifinal will send Lend! against t:dberg. 
When yesterday's rain-delayed match finally got under way, Ed­berg quickly silenced the large crowd by breaking Wilkison in the second game as the reigning Australian Open champion 
jumped out to a 3-0 lead. lie also got an early break in the second set and pulled off the only service break in the third set. 
Only occasionally did the crowd get a chance to cheer, and those times came when the As­heville, N.C. lcft-hanclcr made bone-jarring dives for volleys on the hard courts of the National Tennis Center. l~ut those times were few and far between as t:d­bcrg played one of his best games of this two-week tourna­ment. 
The Lendl-l.econte match turned on one shot. 
Leconte hit a perfectly ex­ecuted drop shot in the I Oth game of the match, a shot that would break Lendl's serve and close out the first set. 
Leconte began to raise his hands in triumph when Lencll raced across the court and some­how got his racket on the ball, lifted it clown the line, then watched as the ball touched down just inside the line. 
~I think that point won me two sets, ""Lend I said.•1 believe that won me the first set because hadnt I gotten to it. I would have lost the first set. And I think men­tally it just broke him down. losing that set because he thought he lldd it.'' 
'' I didnt believe lm going to get to the ball when I ~·as running. l~ut all of a sudden I was there ... and I hit the ball high enough to push it down the line. And once I hit it. I thought I hit it wide, but then it sailed in. '" 




U.S. Open semifinalist Boris Becker cocks his champion, will play Czechoslovakia's Milan Srej­
Notre Dame student season ticket sales end today, as fresh­

racquet as he sets for a backhand return in an ber, while No. 7 Joakirn Nystrom will face Milos­
men pick up their tickets this afternoon. Other students who 
earlier Open match. Becker, the Wimbledon lav Mecir in the other semifinal today.
wish to purchase tickets, but still have not must do so today. Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their ap­plication, remittance and I. D. card to Gate I 0 of the ACC on the 
NVA calendar deadlines 
... 

.. ~ ..
1111 ~ ~ 

bc~in Sunday at 4 p.m. at Rockne Memorial. An informa­tion meeting for the course, which leads to certification, is slated for 6 p.m. today at 2 18 
Organizational Meeting 
for interested tutors 
Sunday, Sept. 7 at 7:00 in the Library Aud. 
Rockne. Aerobics classes started yes­terday and continue today. In addition, NVA needs officials lor women's na~1 football and soccer. Students and stafl mem­bers are eligible candidates. t'urther information <1t1<Vor registration for thc"c and many more NVA CV(~nts may be ob­tained by stopping by the NVA's office in the ACC or by calling 239-6100. 

Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Ncb. -The NCAA has 
suspended 53 University of Ne­
braska football players for one 
game and seven others for two 
games and the ·Cornhuskers 
could possibly forfeit their 
season-opener, Coach Tom Os­
borne said yesterday. 
Osborne told reporters after practice that tile suspensions were ordered lor what the NCAA said were improprieties in Ne­braska's usc of complimentary football tickets. 
'' Wl!rc naturally amazed and 
\·cry angry about tile whole 
thin~~ •osborne said.'wc told tile 
players we \dll do everything 
possible to appeal this.~ 
Osborne said the eighth­ranked Corr'lhuskcrs could forfeit their opener against I I !11-rankcd t'lorida State as one of the school's options to the suspen­sions. 
The violations involved players allowing unauthorized people to use game passes. Family mem­bers and other students are the only people allowed to use the players' passes, according to NCAA rules. 
A Nebraska Sports Information Office spokesman said the NCAA gave Nebraska two options: 
One, all the players could sit out Saturday's game against t'lorida State, which Osborne said woulcllcavc him with mainly freshmen and rcdsllirt players to put on tile field. 

Two, have I 0 players sit out each of the next six or seven games. 
Osborne said he learned of the suspensions from tile NCAA's Eligibility Committee on Tues­day. He would not release a list of players involved. 
An NCAA spokesman said the association was not commenting on the matter. 
"As far as I know, the matter is still being discusscd,'tJim Mar­chiony, director of media rela­tions for the NCAA in Mission, Kan., said. 
Until I hear otherwise, we wont 
have any comment. 
Nebraska is scheduled to meet 
the Seminoles in a nationally­
televised game Saturday night in 
Lincoln. 
~eighborhood Study Help Program, Inc. 
Dedicated to building a future for the children of South Bend. 
']I['~~4tll~--------------------------------------------------•T•h•u•rs•d•ay•,•S•e•pt•e•m•b•er•4•,--19•8•6•-•p•a•g•e•I-I

Kevin Walsh 



Dirk brings his family tree to class 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Calculate a horoscope 
5 Flies high 1 0 Impetuosity 14 Bailiwick 15 George or T.S. 16 Stranger: pref. 17 NYC street 19 Strobile 20 Record 
protector 21 Empresses of 
Russ: var. 23 Actor Jamie 25 Check copy 26 Prisoners of 
Unitedway
• 


Zeto 
IAMERICAN WCANCER 
~SOCIETY~ 

a kind 30 Existing: Lat. 34 Former 
VP Agnew 
E. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7806 
THURSDAY: 

35 A Ruth 37 Noticed 38 Response: abbr. 
18 and OVER NIGHT! 
39 Provide for 42 Sch. gp. 43 Ogle 
01986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

45 Musial 9/4/86
All Rights Reserved

46 Sword of old
We give it to you 

48 Loon 50 Small person 7 "-She Sweet" 52 Bullet 8 Waken
Exactly as you expect it! 
54 Fr. author 9 Sweethearts 
Pierre 10 Galvanizes 55 Set of bells 11 Boxer Spinks 59 Roman 12 Indian coin 
Music to suit 

63 Semite 18 Legendary 64 Fr. actor island 
66 Drudge 22-Tin Tin 67 Fondness 24 Disprove 68 Donnybrook 26 Sacred song 69 Levelheaded 27 Temporary 70 Stage suspension of 
ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 

direction breathing 71 Gorge 28 Stood up
4000 watts of sound 
29 Abraham's wife 

DOWN 31 Seven: comb. 1 Completes form 2 Inland Russ. 32-Hall u. 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 

9/4/86 

sea 33 Pass a law 51 Certain repair 57 Drizzle 3 Withered 36 Twofold shop car 58 Cartoonist 4-granted 40 Kiss 53-Heights Thomas 
(assume) 41 Raised 55 Broadway 60 Hipbones 5 Stem 44 Comical musicat 61 Stolen stuff 6 Cheer for a 47 Frying pans 56 Venezuelan 62 Heraldic term 
matador 49 Everyone copper center 65 Adherent: su,. 
Open 9:00 -12:00 

,.........,.................•N • • • W •J W WJ •~LW • WJJ •J • W • ******************
L• • •J W W WJ LW WA LW W W W WJ
l/-~a pr~~;nmnmmmnhhohmn~itSAB Presents Out of Africa t 
~

IW BLU.E~ROTH.ERS lltM. Friday, September 5th t ~ Wednesday, Septembe~/ tt Saturday, September 6th t 
l: & Th~rsda~, Sept~m~er 4 ·?ic 7:00 pm & 10:00 pm ~ ;;;: 7:00, 9:.30, 12:00 Engmeenng Audttonum :~~~ ~ ~~~! No food or Drinks Allowed ........._ \\\: Cost: $ I . 50 ..,.. .... w Engineering Auditorium No Food or Drink Allowed 

Thursday, September 4, 1986 -page I 2 
Seorts 
Women's volleyball continues to build 

By RICK RIETBROCK group figures to go with a young Sports Writer starting lineup featuring fresh­man Kathy Cunningham, sop­Notre Dame volleyball experi­homores Maureen Shea, Mary enced a turnaround last season. Kay Waller and Zanette Bennett, It didn't show up in the team's junior Kathy Morin, and senior 
12-21 record, but according to Karen Sapp. Irish head coach Art Lambert it According to Lambert Morin should help this season's final holds the key to the team's fu­tally. ture. 
"Despite our won-lost record ''As Kathy goes, or as our set­last year, I think we established ters Pt,o, so goes our team: he a firm base~' Lambert said. 11 0ur said. 1lfn pleased with the prog· attitude really turned around last ress of our setters so far." season and it has carried into The Irish will see how far they this year. I really think it will help have progressed when they play us. host to the Second Annual 
''Our players seem really intent Hoosier Classic this weekend. and enthusiastic. I sense a real Other teams competing in the Lummitm~nt among them." tournament are Purdue, Ball 
This determination is an exten­State, and Indiana. sion of Lambert and his commit­Pu.rdue won the Hoosier Clas­ment to rebuilding the volleyball sic, as well as the Big Ten cham­Senior Karen Sapp will be counted on to lead a Second Annual Hoosier Classic this weekend. Rick program. He has a 26-34 record pionship, last year en route to young starting lineup in Notre Dame women's vol­Rietbrack has the preview at left.
entering his third season at Notre recording a 34-4 record and 
leyball this season. The Irish will play host to the 
Dame, and he indicates that this finishing I Oth in the final NCAA season is part of his continuing poll. rebuilding effort. 11 This year is just another step 11 I am totally unfamiliar with Ball 
Notre Dame linebacking corps 
toward gettin~ to where we want State, but both Indiana and to be,~ he said.'! have lofty goals Purdue~ are traq,itional Big Ten for this program and I want this powers, he says. Purdue won the 
has both experience and depth
team to make considerabje prog­conference last year and Indiana ress toward those goals. is always in the top half." Lambert will have to Indiana, Dame's first 
ISoth inside ami outside backers
make Notre By MARTY STRASEN progress without graduated roui1d opponent finished 19-16 Assistant Sports t:ditor arc very important." seniors Tracy Bennington and One of the moves made by 
see VOLLEY, page 8

Mary McLaughlin. The returning Three key players in the Notre Head Coach Lou Holtt and the Dame linebacking corps of 1985 Notre Dame stall, to turn impor­will be missing from the Four­tance into impact has been the man squad this season, but move of junior outside that's not to say the Irish will be linebacker Cedric t"igaro to a po0 lacking in either the experience sition known as 11 eagle encl. or the talent department. t"igaro, who st<nted eight games Last year's captain Tony Fur­last season and made 62 tackles. janie is now starting at insTde will have the option of moving backer for the Buffalo Bills of the up to the defensive line to 
NFL, senior Robert Banks has strengthen the Irish pass rush, been moved to a starting spot at one of the defense's weaknesses left tackle for the Irish, and in 1985. Foge Fazio
senior Dave Butler is out with an ''we know rigaro's a good foot­injured hamstring he suffered in ball player.'' Holtz said, ' and the spring. Foge Fazio.'Getting a chance to !fresiHnanl Jeff Aim and This year's captain, senior coach a guy like that is an honor. (sophomore) Dan Quinn arc Mike Kovaleski, could prove to He's not only a leader athletically waging a battle for No.2 at that be the anchor for the linebacking but, as a person, ht!s just a fine position. We feel very confident crew, especially if the Notre guy. with the progress thcyvc made~( 
Dame ship runs into some un­
. ~4:! "'i"-· ~
'«,,....,.

~ steady waters against some of " He's the leader of the hackers, \\The disappointing thing on 
The Ohscrvcr.filc l'holo 

the nation's top offenses. who is like the quarterback of the defense is that Dave Butler has Mike Kovaleski (49), Notre Dame football team captain, will anchor ''-were very fortunate to have a team. They have to get the right missed most of two-a-clays. a reconstructed linebacking corps which will feature both youth and guy 'like Mike Kovaleski,"" said alignments and they have to rec­depth. Marty Strasen analyzes the situation in his story at right. Irish inside linebacker coach ognize whats going on out there. see BACKERS, page 8 
Notre Dame is a safer bet under Holtz 
Since betting on last year's our attitude is going to be the ~inkett from the Power-! right move the ball, we will usc it. But the ND logo emblazed on the Notre Dame football team was first time adversity strikes. I do nor'Tim Brown from the wish­you will not sec a steady diet of side~You woulctr1t put an ND on often like an Allen Pinkett run -not know how much they truly bone left~fim Brown from the it.,, the dome, 11 said Holtz. In fact, a sure gain that somehow lost -believe they can win. Ill say we're wishbone right~ The former is a *Holtz will not be afraid to let the only stylistic change from here are some safe bets to expect going to get better. But how really safe bet the latter only so a freshman get his feet wet by last year will be an ND interlock· from the 1986 Irish: good, I do not know." because Holtz has too many ca­throwing him into the deep ing logo on the shoulder of the 
*This year, opposing quarter­pable runners to let opposing end. Tailback Anthony Johnson jersey. 
*Lou Holtz will not be seen backs will not be able to just sit linebackers bang up one guy all and offensive linemen Dean *One final safe bet to make around the practice fields behind in the pocket and fill the sky with 
Brown and Jeff Pearson come about the members of the 1986 the ACC with an index finger aerials. Holtz' comment that last immediately to mind as players Fighting Irish, who so far have
Marty
pointing skyward. Part of the rca­yea~ the quarterback either gol who have looked extremely been very low-key in practice son for this is because Holtz the pass off or the quarter endec[ Burns comfortable in fall worl\outs. concerning MichiHan, is that could not even if he wanted to. was funny to some but certainly Football Anthony Johnson has the they will be watching the events The bespectacled coach, who not to him or the defensive sec­chance to make the biggest of this Saturday quite closely.
Notebook
likes to get in the middle and 

ondary. Hope for air rel(~f thi~ contribution out of the fresh· Like the fans, the players would teach during practice, suffered a season has come from the eagle, the time. Throughout the spring n1an class,'~<;aid Holtz.''Hc docs love to have a little extra incen­sprained finger Monday while at­the position linebacker Cedric and fall workouts, the Irish have not have great speed but he tive going into their Sept. 13 tempting to show his punt-return Figaro will play in the defensive run from the !-formation, the really has a gait lil\e O.J. opener with the Wolverines. men the, er~'proper way"to catch scheme, and from the progress split-back sets, the single-back Simpson -that type of stride You see, Saturday, highly­the ball. of interior linemen Robert Banks, set, and, yes, the wishbone. but O.J.s was quicker.M Other ranked UCLA goes into Tulsa, 
Mike Griffin. and Wally Kleine. Holtz calls current number­freshmen who have caught Okla. for a date with the No. 
Even with healthy digits, While Holtz has cited Banks' suc­one tailback Mark Green~'a good Holtz' attention include Fullback f-ranked Oklahoma Sooners. If however, Holtz has been cau­cesful transition from linebacker college tailback~' while admitting Braxston Banks ancl lineback· the Bruins can pull off an upset, tious to dish out any preseason and the play of the line as a key, any of the other tailbacks or ful­ers Mike Stonebreakcr and Jeff then presumably Michigan (No. hype~' I cant say yet that ~e are it can only be aided by the tena­lbacks could carry a heavy load. Aim. 2 in the Associated Press) would going to be an outsutanding foot­cious rigaro's freedom in the As for the option Holt.z states~ We *Whatever the Irish look like come into Notre Dame as the ball tear11, "'he said. lin really ex­scheme to rush the passer. have the option in our offense on the field, they will not don top-ranked team in the country. cited about the progress we have *The Irish offense will neither but it is not a major part. It there green jerseys, stripes down the If this does indeed occur, Las made. !Sui I do not know what be1 Pinkett from the Power-1 left;' comes a time when we have to side of pants, or helmets with Vegas may even call all bets off. 





