.r-------------------------------------------------------·· ------------------------------------------------.. 
Z1 3D6 Inside: Irish Extra 
SUSAi.,J GAf.'VEDP...A SPECIAL CJLLECTI~~S 

VOL XX, NO. 81 FRIOAYJANUARY 31, 1986 
· -· an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's . 

• Tbefreshly-fallen snowhelped to brighten an ot­herwise dark, cloudy night yesterday on tbe Fieldhouse Mall. Not manypeople dared sitting on tbe mall bet~cbes after three days ofst~ow had ac­cumulated on them. Meanwhile, snow also could befound piled on tbe LaFortune construction site. 

Hesburgh response to Judicial Council reviewed la~t night 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
AssistantNews Editor 
Notre Dame has no automatic punishment for any rules violation, despite what the wording of duLac may suggest, according to Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hes­burgh in a letter to the judicial Council discussed at last night's meeting. 
The circumstances relevant to a particular case are always con­sidered in determining the ap­propriate punishment, Hesburgh wrote, "whether the issue at hand be an overnight parietals violation or some other matter." 
The Dec. 11letterwas in response to a letter from the council request­ing clarification of the University's overnight parietal policy. 
The policy, found in the student guide duLac, states "Overnight parietal violations involve suspen­sion or dismissal." 
That policy and an overnight parietals case last semester prompted the council to request that the policy in dulac be made more flexible and the minimum punishment lessened. 
Hesburgh replied in effect that the policy is flexible despite what the passage in the student guide might suggest. 
"Perhaps the wording in dulac on overnight parietals could be changed to indicate more clearly that the penalty indicated is not automatic; but the fact is that it is not automatic," the letter said. 
"Cenainly, there are in many cases in which specific sanctions would ordinarily be imposed, but nothing is automatic," Hesburgh wrote. "To do so would defealt the whole purpose of hearings and the presentation of facts regarding the incident in question." 
Although no automatic punish­ments exist, judicial Council Coor­dinator Karen Ingwersen questioned whether suspension or dismissal for overnight parietal violations may be too severe a punishment to be imposed even or­dinarily. 
"I think there are two questions," Ingwersen said after the meeting. "One dealing with extenuating circumstances, which has been 
see du LAC, page 6 

Burned bone among debris in Challenger wreckage area 
Associated Press NASA officials did not know what jim Mizell, a spokesman for the search patterns over 8,000 square in diameter. One had an attached kind of bone it was, and there was Kennedy Space Center, called the miles, northward from Cape parachute, indicating it came from CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -A bone nothing to link it to an astronaut. area offshore "the missile graveyard Canaveral to Daytona Beach. one of the solid rocket boosters with blue fabric attached washed up ofthe world" because it contains the "To my knowledge no personal ef­blown up by the range safety officer. 
"An anonymous citizen found a

on a beach, and medical technicians wreckage of scores of failed rockets fects of the astronauts have been Each booster is 12 feet in diameter navy blue sock with what appeared
examined it to see if it belonged to and the discarded first stages of recovered," said a source with the and contains four parachutes to be a burned bone fragment at­
one of the seven astronauts killed in hundreds more. Coast Guard. designed to lower the spent rockets 
tached to it at 11:30 today at the
Tuesday's explosion. "It will take some real expen to Challenger, with five men and two to the ocean for retrieval. high water mark on the beach," said
The bone was found near In­take pieces and say it's not Snark, women aboard -including school­Steven Okes, an Indialantic police
dialantic, 35 miles south of Cape Redstone, Pershing, Atlas and on and teacher Christa McAuliffe -was 8.9 "The ships have begun picking up communications officer.
Canaveral and taken to a hospital at on," he said. Snark and Redstone are miles high and 8 miles off the coast a great deal more debris, larger and nearby Patrick Air Force Base. NASA He said police called NASA, which two of the early missiles of the at the time of the explosion, but the more varied pieces," Simpson said. spokesman Hugh Harris said the instructed them to refrigerate the 1950s. nearly 2,000 mph speed scattered "One ship alone is bringing in 1,000 bone ~d tissue fragment measured find, then "20 minutes later they Thousands of pounds of small debris a vast distance. four inches by six inches by one told us to take it to the hospital at pieces of debris found floating on Also found were two cone-shaped 
see SHUTTLE, page S inch. Patrick Air Force Base." the sea were aboard ships running objects described as "about 10 feet" 

Sailor found guilty in sea murder 
Associated Press 
NEWPORT, R.I. -A black Navy sailor was found guilty yesterday ofpremeditated murder in the fa­tal stabbing of a white lieutenant at sea, a verdict which could result in the Navy's first use ofthe death penalty since 1849. 
An eight-member military jury deliberated for almost four hours before finding Petty Officer Mitchell T. Garraway Jr. guilty in the june 16, 1985, slaying of Ueutenant james K. Sterner aboard the USS Miller. 
In closing arguments yester­day, Navy prosecutor Lieutenant Daniel E. O'Toole said evidence "shrieks out" that Garraway planned the stabbing death and then tried to hide his plans. 
But the civilian defense lawyer, Trevor L. Brooks, said the murder was committed in a spon­taneous fit of rage directed more toward authority figures than the specific victim. Brooks also said the attack stemmed in part from Garraway's perception of racism aboard ship. 

"If this man intended to kill Ueutenant Sterner, he would have stabbed him in the heart or cut his throat," and not plunged a Marine survival knife into his back, Brooks said. 
"I'm turning over his life into your hands," he said. "I'm asking you to end this madness ... with a verdict of not guilty." 
The court-martial panel began deliberations late in the after­noon after hearing instructions on military law from Navy judge John A. Studer. 
Garraway, 21, pleaded guilty to unpremeditated murder in the slaying while in waters off the Bermuda coast. 
His plea virtually guaranteed he would be sentenced to life im­prisonment. But the Navy sought a conviction on a premeditated­murder charge, which is punishable by either a life sen­tence or death. 
During the arguments, Gar­raway sat at the defense table staring toward the jury. He did not take the stand. 
O'Toole said evidence presented during five days oftes­timony clearly shows Garraway schemed to kill the 35-year-old officer in retaliation for delaying a promotion. 
Brooks began his closing state­ment by expressing "profound sorrow" to Sterner's wife, three 
children  and  the  rest  of  his  
family.  
"Sterner represented  an  aut­ 

hority figure," Brooks said. "Something in the dark recesses of the defendant's mind caused him to react violently." 



The Observer Friday, january 31, 1986-page 2 

Indiana's flag and the invitation to come "back home again" are the main features of Indiana's new passenger car license plate. The new plate will be issued for a three-year period beginning in January of 1987. The design of the new plate was the result of more than 400 suggestions from the general public. The plates will be manufactured at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. 
Of Interest 
The Tom Dooleystatue dedication will taice place at 12:30 tomorrow at the Grotto. Father Theodore Hesburgh, Uni­versity president, and Father Edmund Joyce, executive vice presi­dent, will preside at the ceremonies. All are invited. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival begins 
Sunday at 7 p.m. with the annual gospel concert sponsored by the Notre Dame Gospel Choir. The concert will be held in Washington Hall. Admission is free. -The Obseroer 
A French Mass will be celebrated at 5:15p.m. this Sun­day in the Log Cabin. All are welcome. -Tbe Obseroer 
The Marketing Club Pizza Dinner wm be 
on Sunday. The club will play volleyball from 2 to 4 inStepan Center. At 4:30, there will be a free pizza dinner (all you can eat). -The Obseroer 
The Natural FamilyPlanning Program 
of Saint Joseph County again is offering informative classes on campus this semester. In cooperation with Notre Dame's University Ministry Office, the program will offer "An Introduction to Natural Family Planning" on Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. A slide show introducing natural methods will be followed by discussion with questions and answers. The presenta­tion is free and open to anyone. -Tbe Obseroer 
An lchthus Christian Fellowship Meeting will be held today at 6:30 in the library lounge. All are welcome.-The Obseroer 
"Yo Soy," a non-fiction television documen~ about the Mexican-American community in the United States, will accompany a lecture sponsored by the Kellogg Institute this Monday from 4 to 6 at the Galvin Ufe Science auditorium. Jesus Salvador Trevino, the direc;tor of the film, will give the lecture. Trevino is a film director­producer-writer who has completed several major projects for the Public Broadcasting System and CBS. -The Observer 
Tennessee Williams' works will be featured in a three-part film series beginning Sunday evening with "A Streetcar Named Desire." The next two films will be "Suddenly Last Summer" and "The Rose Tatoo" on Feb. 9 and 10, respectively. Showtimeswill be 7 and 9:20 in the engineering auditorium. One dollar will be requested at the door. -The Observer 
A Special exhibit on South Bend's black_com~uru~ will open to the public this Sunday at the Northern Indtana Htston­cal Society Museum. To celebrate Black History Month, the exhibits will be installed through the month of February at the museum located at 112 S. Lafayette Blvd. -Tbe Observer 

Weather 

Spring is here! Just kidding ... it will really be mostly cloudy Friday with a 30 percent chance of light rain, freezing rain or snow. High in the lower 30s. Southeast wind 5-10 mph. Cloudy Friday night with a 30 per­cent chance of light snow. Low in the upper 20s. Cloudy Saturday with a 30 percent chance ofrain. High in the lower 40s. 
,---­
--...,.--~ 
' •• 0 • • 0 0. 
•1 



Design Editor................. Mark Mcuughlin Typesetten...................................... Pat Oark 
Chuck Papandrea News Editor.............................Scott lkarby Copy Editor ................................Tripp Balu Sports Copy Editor................. Mllrty Burns Irish Extra Layout..................Alex Peltzer VIewpoint Copy Editor..........Sue Dunbar VieuJjJoint Layo&d..•.••.•._........ Rob Banolo 

The ObKrver (USPS ~99 l·-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods The Obee~ is published by the studentsofthe llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscriptions may be purchaM"d for J:\0 per year ( llO per se-mester) by WTitin~e The~. P 0. Bo~ Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
-4M~6. 

The Ob.erver L~ a member of 1be Aseoclated Pras. All reproduction rights are resrrvro 
Features Copy Edttor...............Sam Moore Features Layout ............ Mark Mcuughlln Happenings Layout ............ uura Gronek ND DayEditor........................... Bill Hc::rzog SMC Day Editor................. Maryjean Sully .A.dDeslgn..........•..............•...........Jesse Pesta Fred Nelson Allison Fahrenkoph Photographer.......•................Drew Sandler 

Dens of thievery closely resemble dorm rooms of college students 
It's time we admitted it. College students are thieves. 
O.K. Maybe that's too strong a statement. Notall col­Mark 
lege students are thieves. But most ofus. Think about it. 
Pankowski 
How many street and highway signs have you seen adorning dormroom walls? How many bar signs, milk Assistant News Editor crates and bowling shoes somehow found their way •••••••••••••••


into students' rooms? You don't think anyone actually paid for all those, do you? 
And the poor Huddle and Deli. With all the bananas, dinner rolls and other tasty morsels taken from the dining halls, it's a wonder either one can stay in busi­ness. 
But the dining halls have bigger things to worry about than stolen food. · 
According to Director of Food Services Bill Hickey, each year from $20,000 to $25,000 is spent to replace 
the dining halls' dinnerware. last Friday, he said. 
Dishes accidently broken Of course it's possible make up the brunt of that there's a black market for cost. But not all ofit. baby Jesus figurines out 
"We know that every stu­there and the South Dining dent in every room will have Hall's was just one of many a set of china for three or stolen nationwide. four," Hickey said, only half­More than likely, exaggerating. "There's not however, it was stolen to much we can do about it ... I make a point. can't see going into dorms Now, I wholeheartedly and beating students up." agree the Christ child 
Seems we'll take just figurine shouldn't be placed about anything. in the manger before 
"Believe it or not, trays Christmas day. But having come up missing," said --~--::==:::::::=­------the baby Jesus there a little Hickey. "Salad bowls come early is better than not up missing too. And sil­having one at all. verware. God, can you im­Yet students don't just agine how much silverware steal from road departments we lose?" and dining halls. We steal 
Sad to say, it's going to get from each other. 
worse. 
Five-hundred dozen new sets of china were purchased for the North Dining Hall at a cost of ap­proximately $30,000, Hickey said. 
Although that's $5,000 more than the cost of replac· ing the old china again, it was money well spent. 
This china is truly impressive. The plates, bowls and saucers are lined with blue and gold stripes. And the coffee cups. They're emblazened with the Notre Dame insignia. 
To put it simply, these are nice. Maybe too nice. 
As oflast Friday, 65 coffee cups were no longer with us, Hickey said. Although that number includes those broken, there haven't been too many shattered cups lying around. 
No count has been made on the number of plates, saucers or bowls missing, Hickey said. 
But odds are that the number of missing plates is around 65, as is the number of missing saucers. And bowls. 
After all, why steal just the cup when you can have a complete set? 
Luckily, much ofthat ultimately will be returned. But not by us. 
"At the end of the year, we get a lot of it (china) back," Hickey said, explaining that maids find the china while cleaning and return it to the dining halls. 
"That's allright," he said. "I don't encourage it, but it's not the worse thing that could happen." 
One thing does bother Hickey, however. 
The Christ child figurine, stolen from a South Dining Hall nativity scene before break, was still missing as of 
1·'3:-.., According to Notre Dame Security Director Rex Rakow, approximately 60 cases ofstolen textbooks were reported last semester. 
"It was a big source ofloss ...,"Rakow said. 
Obviously, not all of those textbooks were stolen by students. But at least some of them were. 
To combat the problem, Security is distributing "Campus Crimewatch" bookmarks warning students not to leave their books unattended, "even for five minutes." 
"Your stolen books are resold immediately," the bookmark tones "Don't hesitate to call bookstores, police and security." 
Then there's the bookstore rerouting students each semester during the rush to buy books. 
And don't forget the bookstore's security guards, one preventing us from bringing in backpacks as we enter, the other checking us for stolen books as we leave. 
Gosh, you'd think they didn't trust us. 
ur convenient, low-cost vacation spot 
you a lot, yet it's practically next door to Ft. Lauderdale! You'll play on six miles of beautiful beaches, cruise the broadwalk, eat out and party down like never before! Whether your game is tennis and golf, or rock music and night life, you'll find it right here, or very nearby. So this year, head for Hollywood... your Spring Break Hot Spot, and 
go for the fun of it! 1/u//ytHIIIIil FlorliliJ 
Write for our free vacation guide today: Greater Hollywood
I Chamber of Commerce. P. 0. Box 2345, Hollywood, Florida 33022 I 
I Name I School I
I 

Address I
I 

City State/Zip I 
~ In cooperation with the Broword County Tourist Development Council 

The Observer Friday, january 31, 1986-page 3 


'Boss' Herbert continues MS tour 

By ELLYN MASTAKO 
SeniorStaffReporter 
While the real Bruce Springsteen has been touring the world, sop­homore Kevin Herben has become a national spokesman for MS and has been doing some touring ofhis own with his Bruce Rock-a-like act. Her· bert appeared at the MS national training conference held during Sep· tember in Miami, Fla. 
One-hundred thirty-five schools are participating in the campaign this year, whereas only 14 par· ticipated last year. Herbert at· tributes this growth to the success of last year's campaign which Notre Dame won. 
Representatives from all 135 schools appeared with Herbert on an opening shot for ABC's Good MorningAmerica On the final day of the conference, Herbert performed his rendition of"Born in the USA." 
While in Miami, Herbert was given the key to the city in recogni· tion ofhis efforts on behalfof MS. 
Herbert will jam again to "Born in the USA" in the Dean Smith Student Activities Center in Chapel Hill, N.C. this Saturday before a crowd of 

"ButonSunday,four bottles ofCoke®costonly$1.00!' 
Call DOMINO'S PIZZA® 
for Sunday's special­
four 16-oz. bottles of 
Coke® for only $1.00 
with any order. 

Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from Domino's Pizza. Made to order and deliv­ered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on Sunday, get four servings of Coke® for only $1.00 with your order. 
Just ask for Sunday's spe­cial. Available all day this Sunday... only from Domino's Pizza. 

Call us: 

277·2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request the Sunday special. Limited delivery area. © 1986 Domino's Pizza, Inc. 
DOMINO'S PIZZA 
DELIVERS® 
-®FREE. 
22,450. His halftime performance at the Clemson-North Carolina game also will be viewed by a national television audience. 
Then Herbert will tour the Uni­versity of Nonh Carolina, North· Carolina State and Duke University to help the three schools kick off their MS drives. 
"These schools saw me perform live in Miami, and have asked me to help generate enthusiasm at their schools," Herbert said. "In truth, I am very flattered because they have faith that I can help them raise money and motivate their students with my performance." 
Later in February, he will fly to Los Angeles to perform at UCLA's MS kick-off. "When I won the national contest last April, I wasn't promised anything, but I did a few interviews, and things really took off," said Her· ben. 
Last semester, Herbert was ap· proached by Prairie Pictures of Harvard, Ill. to perform at a conven· tion at Walt Disney World in Or­lando, Fla. They contracted a band to play Bruce Springsteen songs and Herbert did his lip-sync act in the foreground. The company made a video ofhis performance. 
Although he has performed all over the country to receptive crowds, Herbert said, "I want to thank the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for making all this possible. With each road gig, I realize more and more that there is no better student body in the world." 
"Traveling has been a strain on my studies, but the faculty has been great in facilitating my schedule. This has been a great help to me in helping MS because I have been able to help them whenever they have asked," added Herbert. 
Notre Dame will not be participat· ing in the official MS Rock-a-like campaign this year, although the University will still hold fundraisers for the cause. Herbert was disap­pointed to hear of the decision. "I don't know why they are not par· tidpating this year," he said. "Now we can't defend either of our tides. Because of Notre Dame's involve­ment last year, the MS Rock-a-like contest has grown phenomenally." 
Even after he must relinquish his title to this year's winner, "I would like to help the multiple sclerosis cause in any capacity that I can in the years to come," said Herbert. 
Former Dooley secretary remembers man and mission 
By SEAN NEALON 
News Staff 
"The reward for service is the strength to serve." 
Dr. Thomas Dooley lived by these words, according to Teresa Gallag· her, who delivered an account of Dooley's life last night at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The lecture, part of a series of events comprising Tom Dooley Awareness Week, was attended by over 40 students and faculty. Gallag· her spoke of her experiences as secretary to Dooley, who treated thousands of refugees in Indochina during the '50s. 
Dooley died ofcancer at age 34 in 

1961. 
Gallagher volunteered her secretarial skills to Dooley after 
Student Govemment
.... . 


reading his first book, "Deliver Us From Evil". She went on to handle the bulk ofhis business and personal correspondence while still working at an insurance firm in New York City. 
Gallagher also serves as the Chair· man of the Board of Tom Dooley Heritage, Inc. The organization is currently sponsoring the reopening ofa health center in Ban ThoedThai, a mountainous region in northern Thailand. 
Gallagher said Dooley, who at­tended Notre Dame as an under­graduate, represents many of the ideals and values of the University. "This is most apparent in his tremen· 
dous  self-sacrifice,"  although  she  
noted that many students  are  un­ 
familiar  with  Dooley,  his  ac·  

complishments, and the example he set for the world. 
HDooley were alive today Gallag· her said she believes he would tell students that "we need works of peace, not just words of peace," words Dooley brought to life . "Dooley practiced peace through medicine," added Gallagher. 

ANNOUNCING THE 
Monday Night Special*
...~Iff.......... ...4-t.tl ,..sed........, 
$10.00 5 12.50~522.50 
Complete haircut Highlighting or coloring 
llld dealgn cellophanea etc. 
lormuleted tor your l'lllr ty.,_ complete wlhauculel•d dealgn. All c:ondltJorunglnc:lueled. 
All SERVICES PERFORMED 
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF 
THE MICHAEL & CO. 
EDUCATIONAL TEAM 
2041 £.Ireland at Ironwood 
&ca 


th Bend 291-1001 HAJR CONCEPTS 

The Observer Friday, january 31, 1986-page 4 
'Stray Dogs' nets professor $5,000; play set to debut in Washington 
By TRACIE FETTERS 
News Staff 
Saint Mary's theatre Professor Julie jensen is reaping the benefits of hard work and determination as she experiences national recognition for her writing and directing. 
Recently, Jenson was awarded a $5,000 caSh prize by CBS Television and the Foundation of Dramatists Guild for her play, "Stray Dogs". This play, which is due to open shortly at the Arena in Washington, D.C., in­volves a serious plot about a family in turmoil because of the father, an alcoholic. To counteract the seriousness of the play, it is laced with large doses of humor as the wife tries to grapple to find someth­ing left in her life to laugh about. 
.t.ast semester, jensen went on a sabbatical to New York where she did revision work on "Stray Dogs". She also went to Italy for inspiration to begin writing a new play. She has written over twenty plays and says 
that she  prefers writing  them  as  
opposed  to directing  or acting  in  
them.  

Her plays have been produced in New York, Los Angeles, Detroit and Washington D.C. In 1981, her play, "A Way Out of No Way" was done here, as was "Kitchen 'Gothic", in 1983. When asked which one was her favorite, she replied, "That's hard to say -it's like comparing which is your favorite child." 
Professor Jensen obtained her 
M.A. and B.A. at Utah State Univer­sity. She did graduate work at the University of California at Davis and received her PhD. from Wayne St. in Detroit. Previous work experience includes four years as co-runner of theatre in Detroit and teaching residences in California, Detroit, and Saint Mary's. jensen said she loves teaching theatre and working close to anyone who is involved in a creative process, be it acting, writing, or any kind of struggle to express the human condition. 

Jenson hopes to bring a sense of professionalism into the Theatre Department at SMC/ND. She wants to turn out good actors, directors, and hopefully people who will be able to get a job in the professional acting industry. Above all, jensen hopes to relate a feeling of en­couragement to potential actors and theatre people; "to let them know that it is not beyond their limits or out ofreach." 

Speech team builds on tradition 
By CHRIS K. MURPHY 
News Staff 
In previous years, the Notre Dame speech team was a leader in their field, establishing the first national debating fraternity. Now, the fifteen­member team seeks to carry on this tradition. 
After receiving various inquiries from students about the ad placed in The Observer, Coach Barbara Haney-Powell, a graduate student in Economics, began to assemble the team. In early December, speech team hopefuls auditioned for spots on the team and then were selected for one of the two major speech categories, debate or forensics. 
Alittle-known group offifteen stu­dents has formed this year's speech team. Most of the speech team mem­bers debated in high school but were unaware until this year that Notre Dame had a speech team, ac­cording to sophomore P.L.S. major Sean 0' Donnell. 
"I debated in high school but when I came to Notre Dame, I did not know of any speech or debate teams. But, at the end of the first semester, I saw an ad in 'lbe Obser­ver for speech team tryouts. So, I decided to give it a try," said O'Donnell. 
Lisa Sitler, a junior Math major, also recently learned about the team. "I heard about the team in an Oral Interpretation class during the first semester. Then, I saw the ad in The Observer. I hadn't debated since high school but I had always liked it." 
After two weeks of practice in early January, Clayton Hamlin, Peggy Kramer, Sandy Cerimete, Dominique Alfaro, Sitler and O'Donnell traveled to the University ofUtah for their first collegiate com­petition. The team reached the semi­finals ·of the 69 team tournament. Sitler fared the best, reaching the semi-finals with her interpretation of a part ofArthur Miller's "Creation ofthe World and Other Business." 

Poetry, dramatic and prose inter­pretation, and extemporaneous speaking, which comprise the department of forensics, were the categories in which the students were judged. Scoring is based largely on the speaker's interpreta­tion and enthusiasm, according to Lisa Sitler. 
"Interpreting is so much more than reading," said Sitler. "You can use gestures and different voices for different characters. But there is also a fine line between interpreting and acting, which is not allowed." 
Sophomore P.L.S. major Clayton Han11in said, "There is a certain ob­sessiveness in debate. Beside the immed-iate rewards such as trophies and ribbons, we feel self­rewarded. It is important to learn to get up in front of a large group of people and communicate clearly to each person." 

Purdue nudes 'bare' punishment 
WEST LAYFA YETfE, Ind. -About 80 Purdue University students face possible disciplinary action in con­nection with a "Nude Olympics" run through campus the night ofjan. 21. 
Most of the individuals will be charged with violationsofuniversity regulations against lewd, indecent or obscene conduct or with conduct interfering with order and discipline on campus, Stephen J. Akers, ex­ecutive associate dean of students, said yesterday. 
Akers said each of the students is being sent a notification of charges, with instructions to appear for a hearing with a representative of the dean ofstudents' office. 

There are four levels of discipli­nary penalties for students found guilty ofviolations, Akers said. These are probation, probated suspension, suspension and expulsion from the university. 
Akers and Sautter said the hearings and disciplinary determina­tions for the students should be completed in about three weeks. 
Friclay4:00p.a Womens Swimming 7:00p• Mens Swimming vs St. Bonaventure & Oral Roberts 

.,.,....,J2:SO,_ Mens Indoor Track Meet 
(Midwestern Collegiate Coriference) 4:00,.. Men's Basketball vs Marquette 7:SOpaa Men's Hockey vs Lake Forest 


Fendng (only Home match ofthe year)
S•llday J0:00 a• 

Come see a nationally ranked team! 

The o•rver/jamn Carroll
For the records 

"The Cellar" record store is open for business now that construc­tion is complete in the LaFortune Student Center basement. Andy Saal and Krls Thompson are shown assisting Keith Spatz in a musi­cal transaction. The record store is among several shops and seroices scheduled to operate in the basement. 
Army grounds helicopters after inspection of blades 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Army has grounded its fleet of AH-64 Apache helicopters following the discovery ofcracks in the main rotor blades of more than a dozen of the new attack helicopters, the Pentagon said yes­terday. 
The service has also decided to suspend the acceptance ofany more Apaches from the manufacturer, the McDonnell Douglas Helicopter Co., pending the results of an investiga­tion. 
The Apache has been designed as the Army's most deadly, front-line aerial weapon for use in providing "close combat support" against enemy tanks. The helicopter has been designed to navigate and attack in darkness and poor weather and carries Hellfire missiles, Hydra 70 rockets and a 30mm chain gun. 
"When fully deployed, the Apache will be the Army's primary attack helicopter," the service said last year. 
In a brief prepared statement yes­terday, the Pentagon said the Army issued the grounding order "as a precautionary measure." 
"There have been no accidents related to the main rotor blade," the statement added. 
Howard DeMere, reached by phone at his St. Louis, Mo., office, said the first instance ofblade crack­ing was discovered on jan. 1 5 on an AH-64 that had been set aside fortes­ting. Examinations were im­mediately ordered for all 68 Apaches now in the inventory, leading to the discovery of 12 more cracked blades. 




Observerto these events
.•_ r':' 
¥r·

: J 
~-··'
,·-to,-' 


----~--~----------------------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, january 31, 1986-page 5 


Shooting spree kills three victims and causes injury to four persons 

OKLAHOMA CITY -A trucking company employee went on a shooting rampage in a neighbor­hood and then at work yesterday, killing three people and wounding four others, includinga little girl and a man he locked in a car trunk, police said. 
Cyril Wayne Ellis then went to suburban Del City, called police from the home of a relative's friend, and said he was tired ofrunning, said Oklahoma City police Captain M.T. Berry. He surrendered to Del City police, who found him sittingon the porch at the white frame house. 
The shootings occurred in less than an hour, and over the distance of about three miles on the eastern side ofthe city. 
Ellis, 24, of Oklahoma City, was booked into the Oklahoma City Jail 


Children wish to rebuild Challenger one dollar at a time 

Just as children saved pennies a century ago for the Statue ofLiberty, some kids are talking about building a replacement for space shuttle Challenger, a dollar at a time. 
Adults, looking for some way to remember the seven who died aboard the shuttle on Tuesday, are setting up scholarship funds to train teachers and a trust fund to care for the children ofthe astronauts. 
In Gillette, Wyo., Missy McPhil­lips, 9, and her brother,john, 10, had suggested that the nation's school children each contribute S1 to NASA to replace the shuttle. 
MARCH 
lrl 1-8 [rl 15-22 lrl 8-15 !ia 22-29 
CONDO OR HOTEL LODGING PARTIES I GOODIE BAGS I MORE! 
OFFICIAL BEACH TRIPS 
L1m1ted Space Available 
CENTRAL BREAK RESERVATIONS 
USA & HAWAII 
1·80Q-321·5911 ~ se" 
COLORADO \)e ,'()"/j; 
1·800·321·5912 s\)~ 
of contact a local Sunchase representattve or your lOcal travel agency TODAY! 

"Missy andJohn feel they're doing something worthwhile in memory of the crew," their mother, Karen McPhillips, said yesterday. She said her children were suggesting con­tributions to a fund set up by NASA in Washington. 
McPhillips said that for some children, contributing to the fund helps them deal with the griefof the tragedy. One classmate of Missy's who was extremely upset by the accident contributed S5, "and she was real excited, they could see a change," she said. 
"Maybe all these kids throughout the United States will feel better if they can contribute to this fund." 
It will take a lot of dollars. 
Richard P. MacLeod, executive director of the United States Space 

Tonight••• 
Foundation in Colorado Springs, . Colo., said the ill-fated Challenger cost S1.6 billion, although a later shuttle, Atlantis, cost S1.2 billion. 
"We've got seven (telephone) lines and they have been ringing constantly," said MacLeod, whose foundation announced its own fund­raising campaign for a new shuttle on Wednesday. 
In Washington, American Security Bank is establishing a trust fund in­tended to be the "singular nationwide fund" for the children of the astronauts killed Tuesday. 
"We have about 200 calls from in­dividuals who want to contribute, including a songwriter who is offer­ing royalties on one of his songs," said Roger Conner, public affairs 



Men's Volleyball 
'ND v U of Mich 
7:30ACCPit 
Compare our prices! 

ironwood liauo 
1 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
t21 9} 272-7144 
on two complaints of murder and one ofassault with a deadly weapon, Berry said. He added that additional complaints would likely be filed. 
Ellis later was taken to a hospital because of fainting spells and reports from other inmates that he was hitting his head against walls, Berry said. Ellis was treated for hy­perventilation and returned to the jail, said Detective Ken Smith. 
Police say they know of no motive, and have not determined a connection between the man and the victims except that four were 
co-workers  at  Consolidated  
Freightways.  
"He  went  crazy,"  said  Mark  

Schreiner, a co-worker. "He pointed thegun at me and told me to back up and I did. He then turned around and pointed the gun at another worker and shot him." 
No weapon has been recovered, said Smith. Police learned ofthe first shooting at 6:45a.m. 
"He apparently shot him and locked him in the trunk of the car," Berry said. The man was taken toOk­lahoma Memorial Hospital, where officials said a shooting victim in his 30s was in critical condition and un­dergoing surgery. 
Six minutes later, authorities were called to a house a few blocks away where they found a woman's body and a wounded girl in the yard, Berry said. 
The child, who Berry said was bet­ween 9 and 12 years old, was hospi­talized in critical condition at Children's Memorial Hospital, offi­cials said. 
director for the bank. He would not identify the songwriter. 
Conner said some contributions already have arrived, "mostly in the no to S25 range," he said. He had not calculated the total, but said, the fact that any contributions had come in was "rather amazing to me since no one could have known about the fund until late Tuesday or Wednes­day morning." 
He said the bank is paying all ad­ministrative costs for the fund. 
Teachers in Granite City, Ill., have set up what they hope will be a na­tional fund to honor Christa McAuliffe, the teacher from Con­cord, N.H., who was aboard the spacecraft. Granite City teachers had already collected pledges of about S2,000, said mathematics in­structorJulie Matoesian. 


Shuttle 
continuedfrom page 1 
pounds of debris. They're finding tubing, they're finding electronic­looking pieces." 
Experts had not studied the electronic control panel to see from which part of the shuttle it might have come. There are many such panels on the flight deck and mid­deck and also on the fuel tank and booster rockets. 
At the Kennedy Space Center, on the road to Challenger's launch pad, someone planted seven American flags to honor the dead astronauts. 
A memorial service, attended by President and Mrs. Reagan, is to be held today at the Johnson Space Center in Houston where the astronauts trained for their ill-fated flight. The president planned to meet first privately with the families, five of whom live in the Houston area. 
In addition to the Navy ships, seven other ships and 13 helicopters 
Another crew member, Ellison Onizuka, was remembered in a scholarship fund created by the Bank of Hawaii and the Hawaii Newspaper Agency, who each con­tributed SS,OOO to get things started. 
The address of the Space Shuttle Children's Fund is: American Security Bank, Box 0150, Was­hington, D.C. 20055. 
The address of the Space Founda­tion's fund is: Space Shuttle Fund, 
P.O. box 51-L, Colorado Springs, Colo. 8090I. 
The ·address of the NASA fund is: NASA, attention:BF, Washington, D.C., 20546. 
The address for the children's fund: Space Shuttle Children's Fund, American Security Bank, Lock Box 0150, Washington, D.C. 20055. The bank also has a toll-free number, 800-462-7878, to answer questions. 
were running search sweeps up and down the coast line. The new search area, expanded from the original 5,500 miles, extended 50 miles from shore in water 50 to 1,200 feet. 
Both at the Florida launch site and in Houston where the ascent to space is directed, engineers studied computer tapes that recorded per­formance of the shuttle's systems every one one-thousandth of a second. 
Officials said the tapes might be the most crucial piece ofevidence in the investigation. They could reveal whether the fireball was caused by something that went wrong with the spaceship's huge external fuel tank or whether the fault lay with one of the two solid fuel rocket boosters. 
In addition to McAuliffe, a 37­year-old Concord, N.H., teacher selected as NASA's first common citizen to take a space trip, those killed were: Francis R Scobee, 46, the commander; Michael j. Smith, 40, the pilot; Judith A. Resnik, 36; Ronald E. McNair, 35; Ellison S. Onizu.ka, 39, and Gregory B. Jarvis, 41. 


The Student Alumni Relations Group ( S.A.R.G.) is taking applications for membership. Jfyou are interested In applying for membership in S.A.R.G., please come to the Alumni Association office, 201 Administration Building 
7 and pick up an application. All applications are due in the Alumni Office by Monday, Feb. 3, 1986. 





-,...------------­

The Observer Friday, january 31, 1986-page 6 
Police disarm bomb in restroom of local fast food establishment 
I 
Auodated Preu McDonald's workers to call police, No one had called in a bomb according to OfficerJames Kile. threat or took credit for planting the device, he said.
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Police safely 
"He saw what he believed to be a 

l 
disarmed a time bomb found at a 
bomb," Kile said. "He then took the The homemade bomb was at­McDonald's restaurant yesterday device and ran from the building and tached to a timing device, Kile said. 

after a customer discovered the ex­dropped it behind a fenced area to He would not identify the type ofex­plosive in a restroom and carried it 
i 
the rear of the restaurant near the plosives used and would not say
f 
outside, authorities said. railroad tracks." what time the bomb was set to go The customer, who South Bend 
off. police did not identify, found the Two bomb techinicians from the bomb in a brown bag shortly after police department detonated the The McDonald's is located in a 
11:30 a.m., carried it outside the fast bomb shortly after the discovery, commercial area on the city's east food restaurant and alerted Kile said. side. 

University research now dependent on Star Wars program progress 

accounts for 16 percent ofall federal ganization based in New York. It spe­spending for university research, up cializes in studies of national WASHINGTON -Thanks to Presi­from 10 percent in 1980." security issues, the environment and dent Reagan's "Star Wars" program, The study concludes that such a corporate social responsibility. The universities are as dependent on the large increase in Pentagon spending group has issued several studies 
Pentagon for research funding as for academic research raises trou­criticizing the "Star Wars" program, . ! they were "at the height of the Viet­bling questions about the balance known formally as the Strategic nam War," a new study concludes. between basic research versus work Defense Initiative, or SOl. 
.! 
"Since 1980, Department of done on weapons projects, as well as Defense funding for university the future of academic freedom to The Star Wars program calls for research has jumped from S495 mil­publish research findings. the development oflasers and other lion to $930 million, an 89 percent "The practical effect of these exotic weapons that could be placed increase," concludes the study con­numbers is that the usual balance in space as well as on the ground to ducted by the Council on Economic between civilian and military fun­automatically shoot down Soviet Priorities. ding is being threatened," con­nuclear missiles. The Pentagon's fis­
"Campus funding from other cluded Alice Tepper Marlin, the cal 1986 budget includes 12.75 bil­major federal agencies ... has grown executive director ofthe council. lion for research. The administration less than half as fast as DOD support The Council on Economic has said it wants to spend S26 billion since 1980. Today, DOD research Priorities is a non-profit research or-on the program by 1990. 

Maneuvers to continue off Libya 
Al8odated Press a few Soviet SA-5 long-range missiles flying across the Mediterranean is have been made operational near under the control ofthe .ftight center 
WASHINGTON -The United the Libyan town of Sirte. A second at the Tripoli airport. States completed its carrier tlight launch site for the missiles is still Administration sources have operations off the libyan coast last being prepared near the town of described the maneuvers as a "show night as scheduled, but the warships Bengasi, the sources said. of resolve" in the face of threats by of the 6th Fleet will remain in the The aircraft carriers Coral Sea and Libyan leader Colonel Moammar central Mediterranean region for Saratoga have been conducting Khadafy to continue his support for some time, Defense Secretary flight 'operations for one week off Palestinians. The United States has Caspar W. Weinberger said yester­the Libyan coast in what is known as accused Libya ofsupporting a Pales­day. the Tripoli Flight Information tinian faction believed responsible 
U.S. intelligence sources, Region. That is the area within for the Dec. 27 attacks on the air­meanwhile, said it now appears that which commercial airline traffic ports in Rome and Vienna. 
from a simple parietals violation, In closing his letter, Hesburgh which carries a lesser penalty. wrote that "The rules and regula­

duLac
.I Hesburgh did not define the term, tions that guide our lives on this I however, writing that setting a campus are not all etched in con­
continuedfrom page 1 
specific time as to when overnight crete. answered; the second question violations occur wouldn't be in the "In fact, there have been manybeing the severity of the penalty in 
best interest ofstudents. changes during my 33 years in the proportion to the rule or regulation. 
Instead, the letter stated, presidency," the letter continued, I don't believe that has been 
"reasonable person" principles and "and I suspect that there will be fur­answered," she said. 
common sense should be used "to ther changes and clarifications in the Ingwersen added, however, that 
determine when the next morning years ahead. "parietals is a very important rule at 
has arrived, and thus an overnight 
"However, there are mechanismsthis University, therefore some fairly 
parietal violation has occured." 
for change and appropriate forumssevere penalty could be seen as war­
"I do not believe that society in 

in which rules that are discussableranted." 
general has too much difficulty in 
should be discussed. The Office of
deciding when it has become the
The council's Nov. 26 letter, the President is not the place to
next morning, even in an environ­
which Ingwersen helped write, start," Hesburgh wrote.
ment such
stated that "While we do agree with as Notre Dame where people tend to stay up quite late," At the beginning ofthe letter Hes­
the existance ofthe parietals policy, Hesburgh wrote. burgh had written"First ofall, let me
we believe the penalty imposed on Despite some criticism that Hes­make it clear that this matter is the
the individuals who violate this (the burgh's letter was condescending, responsibility of the Vice President
overnight parietals) rule is far too council members generally greeted for Student Affairs, and all questions
severe." the letter favorably, With Ingwersen regarding these issues should be Following the request for a more calling it "basically positive." channeled through his office. tlexible policy and lighter punish­Hesburgh's letter "might indicate "It is my understanding that there ment, the council had asked for a change in the future ... ," said In­has been a substantial amount pf clarification of the term "overnight gwersen, referring to the last por­communication with Father Tyson parietals violation" to distinguish it tion ofHesburgh's letter. on this issue already, and I believe 

A one man, three act that traces the life ofa rock r his rebellious to his mellowed old age. 
I 
Saturday, February 1 Washington Hall Student Activities ~&1,.... Tickets at the TicK~~l!ll 

1bc Observer/Paul Kramer 

In retirement 
Lieutenantjames S. Cade was among several officers retired in the annualchange-of-commandoftheBattalion ofMidshipmen of theNaval ROTC Unit. Cadeserved ascommanderoftheD Company ofthe unit. The newBattalion Commander isMidshipman Captain john Abitablio. 
Haitians continue protests, force shutdown of airport 
Associated Press demonstrators Monday. Witnesses 
said demonstrators toppled a statue 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti of the late President-for-Life Fran­President-for-Life Jean-Claude cois "Papa Doc" Duvalier in Duvalier ordered the international downtown Cap Haitien yesterday as airport at Cap Haitien closed until the crowd cheered. further notice yesterday after anti­A Cap Haitien resident said in a government demonstrations esc­telephone call that two independent alated in the north-coast port city broadcasters, Radio Citadelle and and three other towns. Radio Cap Haitien, were off the air 
yesterday because of equipment The president's communique damaged during the disturbances. gave no reason for the action. Diplomatic sources said they had 
Six people have been killed and at confirmed the deaths of three least 30 injured since the protests people killed when a mob broke into began on Sunday in the historic city the New York-based relief organiza­of 60,000 people, the nation's tion's warehouse on Wednesday and second largest. stole thousands of dollars worth of 
Three people were trampled to food staples. death Wednesday when a mob The sources spoke on condition sacked a CARE warehouse and three of anonymity and details were died when security forces fired on sketchy. 
the questions that you raise have been answered," he wrote. Those last phrases drew the most criticism from council members. 
"The proper channels don't send letters back," said council member Matthew Brann, noting that Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson had received a copy of the same letter that Hesburgh had, yet did not respond. 
A copy of the letter also was sent to Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick and Director ofResidence Life Ann Firth, Ingwersen said. But they also did not reply, she added. 
Ingwersen noted that Tyson, Goldrick and Firth all had received a copy of Hesburgh's letter to the council, and thus may have·believed the president's reply was sufficient response. 
Ingwersen said she had discussed overnight parietal violations with Tyson on one occasion. However, she said, Tyson had told her she should speak with Goldrick about a possible change in the policy. 
When she went to Goldrick, he in­formed her she must make a proposal to the Campus Life Coun­cil, which meets next in February, Ingwersen said. Ifthe CLC would ap­prove SU{:h a proposal, it then would go to Tyson for his signature, she said. 
If Tyson signs the proposal, it would then become official, said In­gwersen. Ifhe vetoes it, the proposal may be taken to the Board of Trus­tees, she added. 
Ingwersen said that no proposal has yet been formulated. 
In other matters last night, the council voted unanimously to prohibit council members as well as hall judicial board members from endorsing candidates during future student government elections. 
Although student leaders are now allowed to make endorsements, council members said their public support for candidates might create a contlict of interest because they and hall board members man elec­tion boxes. 



~i~~~_()__i_ll__t_________________F_rid~ay~,Ja-nu-~~3-1,-198-6~-p~age-7 
Dooley's short life was filled with helping others 
This Saturday at 12:30 p.m. at the Grotto, we will be dedicating a statue of Tom Dooley depicted with some young people of Indoc­hina for whom he founded hospitals and or­phanages. There will also be a short ceremony during the half of the basketball game on Saturday when the Alumni Association con­fers its annual Dooley Award to Ann Titus, Class of'80. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
guest column 
Who was this Tom Dooley? First, he was an alumnus who attended St. Louis University Medical School, after which he served in the 
U.S. Navy. The Navy put him ashore at Haip­hong, the port of North Vietnam, through which thousands of refu~ees were streaming South in the 1950s. For the next 18 months, Tom and his Navy corpsmen literally took care of80,000 patients with a wide variety of wounds received as a result ofthe persecution ofCatholics in North Vietnam. 

Following this tour of duty, Tom returned to the States and resigned from the Navy. He then gathered together some of those corpsmen who had served with him in Haip­hong and returned to South Vietnam to care for the masses ofrefugees there. For all ofthe years remaining in his life, Tom ranged throughout Southeast Asia in establishing or­phanages and hospitals in Vietnam, Cambodia, and Laos. His final hospital was in Muong Sing at the Chinese border, in an area of two mil­lion people for whom he was the single doc­tor. Several times during these years, he returned to the States and gave lecture series from coast to coast, always stopping at Notre Dame (and the Grotto). He made about a mil­lion dollars during these trips, all ofwhich was contributed to the work of his hospitals and orphanages in Southeast Asia. 
It was in Muong Sing that he discovered that he had developed cancer while still in his early '30s. He returned to the States for an operation and soon after his recovery, did another coast-to-coast trip and returned to Muong Sing where he worked until he literally dropped. He was in such pain on his return to the States from Bangkok that he had to lie on the floor ofthe airplane the whole trip, and he insisted on walking off the plane when they arrived in New York. I visited him there in the Sloan Kettering Hospital on his 34th birthday and gave him a final blessing. He died the next day. 
Tom was a very talented student at Notre Dame, a fine pianist, a superb horseman, and a quick learner of languages, as was later demonstrated in Indochina. He was also the youngest Notre Dame alumnus ever to receive an honorary degree here which was conferred upon him at the 1960 graduation, the same day that President Eisenhower and Cardinal Montini (later Pope Paul Vl) received their degrees. His life was short, but his work continued. Even today, there are hospitals and orphanages throughout Sout­heast Asia which he founded and which at­tracted hundreds of young doctors and medical assistants to follow in his footsteps. He did not just contemplate suffering, he did something about it. 
That commitment to service is what we are honoring each year now with the Dooley Award. Congratulations to Ann Titus. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh is the president of the University ofNotre Dame. 


Tom Dooley's last letter to Father Hesburgh 
DearFather Hesburgh, 
They've got me down. Flat on the . back ... with plaster, sandbags and hot water 
bottles. It took the last three instruments to do 
it however. I've contrived a way of pumping 
the bed up a bit so that, with a long reach, I can 
get to my typewriter ... my mind . . . my 
brain ... my fingers. 
Two things prompt this note to you, sir. The 
first is that whenever my cancer acts 
up ... and it is certainly "acting up" now, I 
turn inward a bit. Less do I think of my hospi­
tals around the world, or of 94 doctors, fund 
raising and the like. More do I think ofthe one 
divine Doctor, and my own personal fund of 
grace. Is it enough? 
It has become pretty definite that the can­
cer has spread to the lumbar vertebrae, ac­
counting for all ofthe back problems over the 
last two months. I have monstrous phan­
toms ... as all men do. But I try to exorcise 
them with all the furry ofthe middle ages. And 
inside and outside the wind blows. 
But when the time comes, like now, then 
the storm around me does not matter. The 
winds within do not matter. Nothing human 
or earthly can touch me. A wilder storm of 
peace gathers in my heart. What seems unpos­
sessable, I can possess. What seems unfat­
homable, I fathom. What is unutterable, I can 
utter. Because I can pray. I can communicate. 
How do people endure anything on earth if 
they cannot have God? 
I realize the external symbols that surround 
one when he prays are not important. The 
stark wooden cross on an altar of boxes in 
Haiphong with a tortured priest ... the mag­nificence of the Sacred Heart Bernini al­tar ... they are essentially the same. Both are symbols. It is the Something else that counts. 

But just now ... and just so many times, how I long for the Grotto. Away from the Grotto, Dooley just prays. But at the Grotto, especially now when there must be snow everywhere and the lake is ice glass and that triangular fountain on the left is frozen solid and all the priests are bundled in their too­large too-long old black coatsand the students wear snow boots . . . if I could go to the Grotto now, then I think I could sing inside. I could be full offaith and poetry and loveliness and know more beauty, tenderness and com­passion. This is soggy sentimentalism I know. Cold prayers from a hospital bed are just as pleasing to God as more youthful prayers from a Grotto on the lid ofnight. 
But like telling a mother in labor, "It's okay, millons have endured the labor pains and survived happy ... you will too." It's consol­ing ... but doesn't lessen the pain. Accord­ingly, knowing prayers from here are just as good as from the Grotto doesn't lessen my gnawing, yearning passion to be there. 
I don't mean to ramble. Yes, I do .... 

The same reason I write to you just now is that I have in front of me the Notre Dame Alumnus ofSeptember 1960. And herein is a story. This is a Chinese hospital run by a Chinese division of the Sisters of Charity (I think). Though my doctors are British the hospital is as Chinese as Shark's Fin Soup. Every orderly, corpsman, nurse and nun know ofmy work in Asia, and each has taken it upon themselves to personally "give" to the man they feel has given to their Asia. As a conse­

quence I'm a bit smothered in tender, loving care. 
With a triumphant smile this morning one of the nuns brought me some American magazines (which are limp with age and which I must hold horizontal above my head to read ...) . an old National Geographic, two older Times, and that unfortunate edition life ... and with these, a copy of the Notre Dame Alumnus. How did it ever get here? 

So, Father Hesburgh, Notre Dame is twice on my mind . . . and always in my heart. That Grotto is the rock to which my life is anchored. Do the students ever appreciate what they have, while they have it? I know I never did. Spent most ofmy time being angry at the clergy at school ... 10 p.m. bed check, absurd for a 19 year-old veteran, etc., etc., etc. 
Won't take any more of your time, did just want to communicate for a moment, and again offer my thanks to my beloved Notre Dame. Though I lack a certain buoyancy in my bones just now, Ilack none in my spirit. I must return to the States very soon, and I hope to sneak into that Grotto ... before the snow has melted. 
My best wishes to the students, regards to the faculty, and respects to you. 
Very sincerely, Tom Dooley 

Dr. Tom Dooley was a memberofthe Notre Dame Class of1948. He died]an. 18, 1961. A copy ofthis letter was reproduced andplaced at the Grotto. 

Dooley award recipient learned valuable lessons 
The editor ofThe Observer has asked me to respond to several topics related to Thomas Dooley and my own experiences in Southeast Asia. It is my wish to be honest and open in sharing these reflections with the Notre Dame community. 

Michael Bowler 
guest column 
Dooley's writings about his work in Sout­heast Asia served as a catalyst for me in creat­ing an interest in the peoples and cultures of Southeast Asia as well as in the type of humanitarian service with which he was in­volved. At Notre Dame his influence often came to me in a reflective but routine way, each time I passed by the Grotto or walked through the Dooley Room in LaFortune. 
So, why did I go to work with refugees in Southeast Asia? I went compulsively, out of a deeply felt affinity for the Vietnamese refugees I had met in the United States since 1975. At that time my parents and I sponsored a Vietnamese family, with whom I became close friends and shared many emotionally in­timate experiences. Therefore, I felt com­pelled to respond as the heart-rending images of Vietnamese being crowded into refugee camps, of Boat People being refused asylum and towed out to sea and of refugees drown­ing appeared on a daily basis on television and in newspapers during the first halfof 1979. 

Also, I had spent a year after graduating from Notre Dame studying in southern Asia, so it was for me a fascinating region made up of interesting people and cultures (and not particularly a dangerous place for me) to which I had a craving to return. 
And with me, as with many ofus, there were the questionable motivations. There was the notion that by participating in this humanitarian service I would somehow feel much better about myself. (One lesson that had yet to be learned was that it is best if self worth does not hinge on one's accomplish­ments and endeavors even if they be "humanitarian.") There was, in addition, no doubt, some element ofgrandiosity -that be­cause of my past involvement and ex­periences with Vietnamese refugees and living in Southeast Asia, I had to be the one to go. (I later learned this was not so -there were quite a few other qualified Americans.) 
Once there, the greatest challenges were· psychological. I had to learn not to neglect my own physical, emotional and spiritual needs in the face of the largely unmet needs of the refugees. If I did not take care of myself, I would be of no use to them. Initially, there was the struggle not to become too emotion­ally involved with the plight of the refugees and then, later, the struggle swung to the ot­her side of the spectrum, becoming one of dealing with a numbness offeeling toward the refugee and sometimes even hostility and 
frustration. Perhaps my biggest challenge in­
volved working though my inclination to 
judge the refugees' apparent motivations for 
leaving their homelands. It was not coinciden­
tal that each time this happened, I also ended 
up questioning the value of my own involve­
ment. 
The refugees with whom I worked taught me the value in not judging people. I now realize that these were special, chosenpeople, much as were the Jews in Europe who were persecuted by the Nazis. Thank.God that I did not pass judgment on them prematurely and hence deprive myself of learning from them what pain, suffering, faith, freedom and the agony of leaving one's homeland meant! For me there was also a strong evolution of the beliefthat refugees, regardless oftheir motiva­tions, deserve compassion, respect and the granting of asylum, much as did our im­migrant ancestors whose motivations were sometimes less than clear or pure. 
About myself it was learned that I generally was responsible, caring, compassionate, gentle, patient and could perform well under stress. But there was also the realization that there were times when I was irritable, dis­respectful, insensitive and could not handle stress. It became apparent that while I could not and would not want to try to eliminate my human weaknesses, I could try to recognize them and deal with them positively. 
Were there accomplishments? Yes, there was some tangible success. Many thousands of Indochinese refugees were aided and then resettled in the United States and other countries. However, from Thomas Dooley's perspective, this event may have represented unparalleled tragedy -the people whom he had tried so hard to provide medical care for at the village level were now being forced to abandon their homelands and their way oflife. (Perhaps there is some ironic symbolism in this indicative of the often paternalistic, eth­nocentric and militaristic involvement ofour country in Indochina.) And ofcourse, any real accomplishments are dependent upon the degree that each of us continues to welcome and accept these people into our own com­munity and into our society. 
Would I do it again? Yes, if I felt there was the need, if I felt ready and ifI felt that it was God's will for me. But action on behalf of so­cial justice is best carried out in the present wherever we are. In fact, it is my belief that I serve the humane concerns of social justice best when I live a lifestyle grounded in spirituality and simplicity which contains a balance between reflection and action. In this context, then, I seek social justice within myself, in the relationships I have with friends and family, in my community, my own society and in the accompanyingsocialstructures and policies which impact people internationally, nationally and locally. 
Michael Bowler is a Notre Dame graduate and the first recipient of the Dr. Thomas DooleyAward. 


VieWP-Oint Friday,January 31, 1986-page 8 


Students do have rights in the ND judicial process 
l 

When people talk of students' rights, they often laugh. In fact, it is the common percep­tion of students here that there is no such thing as "students' ripts" at the University of Notre Dame. Yet, students here do indeed have some rights, at least in the judicial process. Unfortunatdy, few students ever become aware of these rights until it is too 
late.
I 
Karen Ingwersen 
guest column 

Students first become extremely con­cerned with their rights when they receive a letter or a call from the Oflke of llclidence life indicating the they arc to meet with As­sociate Vice President for llcsidcnce IJRJohn Goldrick or Director of Residence Uk Ann Firth. Suddenly, a frantic search ofone's room commences. Wherever did that copy of du Lac go? There, hidden in the comer, under last year's calculus text and this month's laundry is that mangy copy. Now, where docs it talk about the disciplinary process? No, no, I'm not interested in the history of the school! 
Whoa! Stop rushing around. Take a deep 



I(•'i ~ 
Doonesbury 

breath. Then contact your hall judicial board chairperson. Yes, I mean that terrible person who just last week fined your best friend br playing his stereo too loudly. That same ter­rible person is also your best quick reference for some help with the University judicial process. H you have some question he cannot answer, he knows who to contact for more information. 
But, you say, your hall's chairperson is out of town. She is one of those accounting types who is interviewing. all expenses paid, in some sunny climate this week. Panic, right? No, just slow .down. Try calling the judicial coordinator over at the student government offices. Or, ifall else &ils, you could try to call me at home, although I tend not to be there. 
But what good will talking to each or any of these people be? Hopefully, we can impress on you the seriousness of the situation in which you now find yourself. Not taking this situation seriously is the first mistake most people make. For example, were you aware that the maximum penalty for most University offenses is suspension or expulsion? Ob­viously these are penalties ofenormous mag­nitude to the average coUege student. 
You are also entitled to have an 
.. H 
I 11//U. FeAR NO ~VIL: 

~u. NOfAI ~vc 
"WHiffCAN YOIJ S4YA80I.JTA 25­
TIE etJL06/STIC YO(JG(JT 
'/tM{)IJ)6/RL. IAHJPIW? 7HAT
F?R THaJ AJ<rWfTH Mei 

REAIJ/Ne. IT,Ya.JI<
7HY fl(){) ANI? 7HY57AFFj 

51/C IAJ4S 8fiJU11RJL. ANPBRJ/.J.IANT. 
QJI?J/5? (JRKE. 
7HATSHE IOIEl1MOlAI{TANlJBACH
THEYctYr1Fl:KTMe." 

/ I 
ANP meBCA7L£5. ANPMe. "
/ 
" 

undergraduate represent you in aU phases of 
the judicial process. Often it is nice just to 
have someone who sees everything from a 
slightly different angle and possibly more ob­
jectively than you. If nothing else, any one of 
the people I suggested can teD you just what 
to expect at each step along the way. 
So now what? First, remember that you are innocent until proven guilty. Second, all aspects of your case are confidential, includ­ing any contact with judicial board people or myself. Third, remember that you are not re­quired to make a written statement. Ifyou do (and you will be asked to) be aware that this statement wiD be used later. Be careful how you present your statement. It is very easy to write one thing and mean another. 
OK, the disciplinary officer gave his deci­sion and you just do not agree. Is it time to panic orgive up yet? NO! You have five calen­dar days in which to appeal any aspect of the decision to the Judicial Review Board. "Judicial WHA1?" you say. This is a pool of very competent, intelligent people from the faculty and administration. By now ifyou have not contacted me or one ofmy assistants, you should. This is our special area ofexperience. 
Finally, the Review Board has rendered its decision. At this point either you or the dis-
Garry Trudeau 
Irs FROM Mwve 
s-rrRY.,. IT WAS 
meQ1J!fif5Tr COIJUJ FINO IN 
7H&U8PARY. 
\ 

ciplinary officer can appeal the decision wit­hin seven calendar days to Father Hesburgh's office. The Office ofResidence Life prepares a summary ofthe prior hearings and forwards it to Father Hesburgh. Father Hesburgh's deci­sion is final. 
See, students do have some rights within the judicial process. Granted, the decision will ultimately be made by a member of the "administration." Indeed, this is the major weakness ofour judicial system. Yet, since our system has thisweaknesswe are fortunate that Father Hesburgh is that final link in our process at the present. He considers carefully aU of the information with which he is presented, including his decision's long-term effect on the student involved. Under a lesser man this process weakness would have a much more profound effect on the fairness of such a circular judicial process. 
So next time someone is wondering about students' rights, don't laugh. Tell them who to caD. Knowing your rights is your respon­sibility. 
Karen Ingwersen is a senior accounting major and the judicial coordinator at Notre Dame. 
Quote of the day 
"He (Rick Majerus) lost about 20 pounds. That's like a deck chair blowing off the Quee.-1. 
Mary." 
A/McGuire CBS Halftime jan. 19, 1986 

Photos by Drew Sandler Campus Comments: What do you think of parietals? I live off campus so it doesn't af­Good to a degree, but should not From a privacy aspect, it is very Agood idea, but the penalties are Good idea during the week fect me, although it does accord­be so restrictive at Saint Mary's. good; gives you a chance to to get too severe. nights, but during the weekend ing to Du Lac. ready in the morning. But the it's not too good. same stuff can happpen at 11 at night as 3 in the morning. john Klinge Kathleen Herbst Jon Hanson Kevin Sidders Ken Cleveland Accounting BusinessI psychology Ecooomiclll Aerospace engineering Freshman YearofStudies  


P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of :~ Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the :j adm1n1strat1on of etther mstitution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­!I Sible Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space •s ava1lable to aH members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Ed1tor .........................................Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor .................................... Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wotf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 
Friday,January 31, 1986-page 9 

Cynicism should not shackle risks of heroes 
criminals." Father Bruce Ritter made sure every skeleton has been On a winter day, when the snow opens the doors ofCovenant House dragged out ofthe closet. Dig for is falling, I feel like a cheerleader forFather Robert Griffin 
in Hell's Kitchen to ru112way the headliners who give us reasons
dirt until you have buried the su­teenagers. These kids have no other perstars who are not even as good for celebrating. Winter is a tough 
T 
Letters to a Lonely God place in Manhattan that will take as the joneses whom they've always season; snow and cold cause them in. Some ofFather Ritter's kept ahead of. Leveling is the hardships. Many suffer when the critics say: "He's running a den of pastime the demythologizers are weather is bad injanuary. Yet the thieves. Those teenagers mug, good at. growing fields need snow; farmershe Super Bowl, the disaster that disaster, we were hearing criticism 
solicit, take on as customers all the I'm sorry for the small child who hate a winter without snow.
destroyed the space shuttle, the ofChrista McAuliffe for leaving her 
sickies hanging out in Times Square. stood sobbing to have her mother The earth needs the snow as a 
work ofDr. Tom Dooley, and the family and going on a crazy ad­coming ofthe winter snow have left Then they go to Covenant House back from the skies streaked with preparation for the spring planting.
venture. She should have finished for bed and board." flames over Canaveral. Perhaps The children want snow for theirme feeling breathless this week. I her work as a parent before starting 
McAuliffe had no right to be one of games. Old-timers say a snowfall
get up and go to bed listening to offto the stars as an astronaut, the 
Dorothy Day, Father Daniel Ber­
Chicago radio. The entire city of · critics say. She left youngsters be­the pioneering women who perish washes the germs out ofthe air. The
rigan and Albert Schweitzer in 
on the last great frontier known to winter gets a bad press, but it's part
Chicago was hyped over the Bears hind who will be scarred for life. 
Africa nursing lepers, had critics 
like a college campus busting its Dr. Dooley, as a Navy doctor, say the race. Yet who ofus is entitled to ofnature's economy to vary the
willing to destroy their reputations 
tell a woman, whose courage made seasons. Right now, we are in the
seams on a homecoming weekend. the Asian children with drumsticks 
for greatness. Last week, the South 
her larger than life, that she has no midst ofthe campus doldrums,
By Saturday, I was as excited over hammered in their ears, as a punish­
Bend Tribune carried letters to the 
the game as the fans eating Cajun ment by the Communists for at­right to try to steal the golden waiting through dull weeks until
editor urging the government to 
cooking on Bourbon Street. All the apples from the orchards that the the frisbees and baseballs are taken
tending Sunday school. He had this 

release its "evidence" picked up by 
gods have planted on the distant out of mothballs. The air is full of
hoopla seemed important, like the dream ofdoing jungle medicine, to wiretaps about the alleged corrup­
footnotes to the Gospel, as the help the children. He, too, was stars? Melville, in "Moby Dick," had sickness and half-death. Easter will
tion of Martin Luther King. 
wonderful chapters on the sailors show us how life goes on.
Second City got ready for its day in criticized. The critics claim he who left the safety ofthe shore to We should hate the spiritual
the sun. The irony for me was that helped us get involved in the Viet· Fifteen years ago, a book ap­
perish in the howling storms on the winter-kill ofthe soul that makes us
I've never watched professional namWar. peared claiming to blow the cover football. on George Washington's secret perilous seas. The Bible describes dull. You'll be 60 years old, before Professional football, the space them as the ones "who go down to you know it. Maybe ofthe moun­
expense account. The author claims By Tuesday, the newspapers program and missionary medicine that Washington and his officers the sea in ships, to see the wonders tains to be climbed, there's one left were talking about the drug do not need to be defended by me. ofthe deep." for you. Maybe ifyou want it, a
lived high on the hog during that 
problem among the players on the But have you ever noticed that terrible winter when the enlisted We would be culturally im· place has been reserved with your Patriots team. I don't know how big there are people who don't like men were freezing and starving at poverished ifall ofus continually name on it on one of the space the problem is. It would be disap­heros? Who will, if given the half a played it safe. We would never have chariots. Maybe you are destined to
Valley Forge. The "expense ac· chance, offer you proofthat the poetry, explorations, progress, fresh bring light to the darkness ofa
pointing to learn anything that count" is a record in code ofthe would detract from the happiness heroes and heroines are phonies wine, victuals and prostitutes which glimpses of the truth in creation, if ghetto or a jungle as a new Father that the Bears brought Chicago. I'm doing quite a lot ofharm? were shipped in to heighten the all ofus made an absolute virtue out Ritter or Mother Teresa. Maybe sure the detractors are ready to say Mother Teresa has taken over a morale ofthe officer corps. ofcaution because ofa reluctance you're going to be a hometown the sports scene is rotten. rectory in Greenwich Village to to flirt with tragedy. As for the hero as a member ofthe team bring­take care ofthe victims ofAIDS. The name ofthe game today social prophets, where would we ing home the bacon. May I, as a Tuesday, the space shuttle blew Three ofher patients were inmates seems to be to discredit greatness be ifGod's work came to a standstill rahrah, offer you a piece ofun­up, killing everyone aboard, includ­ofSing Sing. "Wait until one ofthem wherever you find it; drag down because all His witnesses were solicited advice? Try to live so that ing the high school teacher, who murders somebody," the critics are everyone who stands head and tongue-tied in the presence ofthe others will be grateful for your time was also a wife and the mother of saying. "She is doing Greenwich shoulders above the crowd. Inves­Devil's madness, fearing that the on earth. It's the smallest dream to two children. Within hours ofthe Village no big favor by housing sick tigate the headliners, until you've critics would speak poorly ofthem? which you should limit yourself. 
Miami left in dark as Irish roar to thunderous victory 
This is the 16th episode in The Observer's serial publication ofthe Notre Damefoot­ball story, "Tbe Gipper's Ghost." In last week's episode, Coach Kelly's ambitious speech at the pep rally bad sustained tbe 
fired-up hopes ofthe Irish faithful as tbe sun set on tbe impending start oftbe game against No. 4 Miami. 
Miracle at Notre Dame 
T
he unique traditions ofNotre Dame were nowhere more evident than in the All-American spectacle ofits football games. 
Night had fallen. Overhead, the sky was a 
deep blue-black. Inside the stadium it was as 
bright as day. The powerful Musco lights 
flooded the place with artificial sunshine, 
creating a kaleidoscopic panorama ofbril· 
liant colors and sharp contrasts. · 
The proud Notre Dame band · the oldest 
university marching band in the United States 
The Gipper's Ghos~ 
ChOp1er S11.teen ~ 
· emerged from the north tunnel and dis­
persed its ranks in the end zone. The band 
members stood in attentive silence as the stadium announcer welcomed the faithful to 
Notre Dame Stadium. 
Asharp whistle. The clatter ofdrumsticks. The rousing music of"The Hike Song" as the 225-member band began its famous hike-step routine to midfield. 
The drum major sprinted to the fore. She was dressed all in white from her shako to her boots, except for gold embroidery and epaulets. 
Immediately after her came the members ofthe Irish Guard, photographers' delights in their scarlet coats and kilts woven ofa specially-designed blue-and-gold plaid. Black shakos with a specially designed blue-and­gold plaid. Black shakos with orange plumes crowned their costumes. The honor guard, comprised ofmale students who met a minimum height requirement ofsix feet, two inches, towered above the royal blue tam o' shanters worn by the musicians marching in their wake. 
Every game started with a tribute to America. The band stood rigidly at mid-field and reverently played "America the Beauti­ful." Meanwhile an alumnus specially-chosen for the honor· this week an author from Chicago · carried a folded American flag 
diagonally from the 50-yard-line to the northeast comer ofthe field. Members ofthe Irish Guard met him, snapped a salute, took custody ofthe Stars and Stripes and wheeled about to march to the flagpole. 

There, the guardsmen respectfully un­folded, then raised and unfurled the red, white and blue flag while the band played the national anthem. There was no celebrity at a microphone to lead the singing. There was no need; the crowd sang on its own, without prompting. 
One Chevrolet commercial later, the game 
was on. 
The Irish kicked off. 
The specialty team hurtled downfield and 
drove the Miami return man into the turfat 
the 12-yard-line. • 
"Our Lady's Tough Guys" stopped the first attempt at the line ofscrimmage. On Miami's second play, lhe fullback was nailed at the 10. On the third, the Hurricane quarterback · was sacked at the five. 
Definitely a punting situation. 
The Hurricane punting unit moved into 
position. Shenandoah Lee and Dutch Reagan 
were back for the Irish. 
On the Irish bench, Father Rock removed 
his hat and made the sign of the Cross. It was 
the agreed-upon signal. 
"Do your stuff, Lord," he whispered under his breath. The toe ofthe Hurricane kicker met the ball as thunder rolled across the sky. The 

football hit the ground at the '50 and began a 
series offreak bounces that even a Detroit Tigers shortstop couldn't have·fielded. 
Reagan retreated, moving quickly to overtake the football. His fingertips touched the ball as another thunderclap boomed overhead. 
Out ofthin air, a lightning bolt flashed directly above Notre Dame Stadium. Splitting into four branches, the lightning arched over the stadium walls and struck Musco Lighting Co.'s electrical equipment. Sparks flew. Electricity sizzled. 
Onrushing Hurricanes had Reagan in their eyes when the Musco lights went out, plung­ing the field into darkness. 
It was pitch black! For eight long seconds, total darkness enveloped the statium. Then the lights flickered, grew bright and finally bathed the stadium in light once more. 
Reagan was at the Miami three! His golden helmet flashed across lhe goal line! 
The field behind him was littered with bodies. In desperation, the Miami defenders had tackled the sounds offootsteps. As a result, they had mostly tackled each other. 
Confusion reigned supreme. The ABC announcers were so confounded that when the referee called an official time-out, they forgot to cut to a commercial. The officials huddled at the Miami sideline. The Hurricane coach offered them his counsel at the top of his voice. 
There were no penalty flags on the field. "You can't call what you can't see," one official later told a sportswriter. No whistles had blown, either. 
The head referee raised his arms straight up from his shoulders. Touchdown, Notre Dame. 
The stadium erupted as the Notre Dame family woke up the echos, all ofIndiana and most ofIllinois and Michigan. 
The victory march had begun in earnest. 
With national television as a showcase, the Fighting Irish presented a dazzling array of football prowess that delighted their ad· mirers and stunned their opponents. 
By the middle ofthe third quarter, Reagan had racked up 148 yards rushing, and in a bit 
ofrazzle-dazzle had launched a scoring pass 
to Hart Collins for the fifth Irish touchdown. 
Up in the press box, evenJohn Thornton was at a loss for words. Could this really be the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, only a few weeks ago the laughingstocks ofcollegiate football? 
In his mind, he summoned up the 
vocabulary ofwinners. He conjured up 
images ofNotre Dame legends ofseasons 
past. He hit upon the tamous paragraph 
written in 1924 by Grantland Rice, one ofthe 
most famous sportswriters ofall time. Rice's 
words had immortalized another Notre 
Dame backfield: "Outlined against a blue­
gray October sky the Four Horsemen rode 
again. In dramatic lore they are known as 
famine, pestilence, destruction and death. 
These are only aliases. Their real names are: 
Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. 
They formed the crest ofthe South Bend 
cyclone before which anomer fighting Army 
team was swept over the precipice at the 
Polo Grounds this afternoon as 55,000 
spectators peered down upon the bewilder­
ing panorama spread out upon the green 
plain below." 
Rice's words alone might have been enought to catapult the four players to glory. Their immmortality was assured when an enterprising student publicist named George Strickler led four horses to the practice field a few days later. All four mounted horses for the first time in their lives and became forever known as the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame. 
Thornton envied Rice's skill and fame. He 
pounded the typewriter's keys furiously. He 
was going to write the most famous story of 
his career. 
On the field, the Irish added two more 
touchdowns in the final quarter. The final 
score was Notre Dame 56-Miami 0. 
As he headed for the locker room, Father 
Rock looked up and gave a smile and a wink 
to a passing cloud. 
To be continued ... 
From "Tbt Glpprr'a GhoM." copyrlpu 198• by lltobnt Quack~nbusll. Published by O'Connor PubUIIU,. Co. Jtqwlnted by pcrmiMion. 


I 
r I 
The Observer Friday, January 31, 1986 -page 10
I I 
. 
i 
t 
I 
I 
1. 
I. 

t 
l. 
f 
( 
!) I ,,I 

The ND wrestling team will travel to Mt. Pleasant, 
Mich. tonight to face Central Michigan University in a dual meet. 
The match is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
A Shorin-Ryu Karate demonstration will be given tomorrow at 1:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free, and the skills demonstrated will be similar to those taught in the NV A classes on Monday and Wednesday evenings. For more information call NVA. · The Observer 
A cross countryski race will be hetdtomorrow at 
11 a.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. There will be separate divisions for men and women, and trophies will be awarded to first and second place finishers. The entry fee is $1 and must be turned in to the NVA office in the ACC today by 5 p.m.. For more information call the NVA. -The Obseroer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will air coverage of basketball and hockey this weekend. Coverage of the NO-Marquette basketball game tomon-ow will begin with "Digger Says ..." at 2:45 p.m. followed by "Let's Talk Basketball" with host Jim Gibbons. Pete Pranica and Kelly Brothers will handle the play-by-play. Broadcast of the ND-La.ke Forest hockey game tomorrow will begin at 7:20 with "The Lefty Smith Show" hosted byJoe Malvezzi. -The Obseroer 

The NV A cross-country ski clinic has been 
rescheduled for two times, both on Sunday. The first is at 10 a.m. and the second is at 2 p.m. New registrants are welcome. Call NVA at 239-6100 for information. -The Observer 
The NDWomen's TrackClub will hold its first indoor meet of the season tomorrow at 3 p.m. at the ACC. Anyone interested in attending or in timing the races is welcome. For more information call Mary Beth at 277-1983. -The Observer 
Men's and -Women's indoor soccer 
tournaments will be held by the NVA. Rosters must include a mini­mum ofeight players and should be turned in with a SS entry fee by Wednesday. For more information call the NVA.-The Observer 
Body Fat Testing will be offered by NVA to the first 75 people free ofcharge on Tuesday at 6: 1 5 p.m. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club men's varsity team will hold practice today at 5:30 p.m. in the ACC Concourse. For more in­formation call Chris Nye at 236-4400. -The ObsenJer 
see BRIEFS, page 11 
Virginia jolts No. Carolina inACCupset 
Assodatrd Press 

CHARLOTIESVILLE, Va. -Olden Polynice led five Virginia players in double figures and the Cavaliers withstood an early second-half rally last night for an 86-73 Atlantic Coast Conference basketball victory over top-ranked and previously un­defeated North Carolina. 
Polynice, a junior center, scored 19 points as Virginia moved to 14-5 overall and 4-3 in the ACC. The Cavaliers broke a seven-game losing streak against the Tar Heels dating to 1982, Ralph Sampson's junior season. 
John Johnson added 13, Mel Ken­nedy and Ri<;hard Morgan 12 apiece, and Tom Sheehey 11 for Virginia. 
North Carolina, losing for the first time after 21 straight wins and fal­ling to 5-1 in ACC play, was led by Brad Daugherty's 21 points. Kenny Smith added 20 and Steve Hale 14 for the Tar Heels. 
Except for a 2-2 tie in the first minute, Virginia led the entire game. 
Tht> Ohst>rt·t>r :\otrt: Damt: otfic.:t.·. ltKatnl on tht.· lhm..l floor of l.at-ortunt.· SIUc..knl <.t:mt·r. Jl..'t.t:pl~ da~~ilkd adn·rti~in~ from 'Jam until ·• p m ..\tond.l\ throu~h t-rid.n 1"he Ohst'T't't'r Saml \lan ·, offin·. lm.uc.·d on lht.· th1rd floor ot llaggar Collt:~t: Ct:mt:r. ac.:n·pt' da.,,ifinJ., from I.! .~o p m un11l .~ p m. \ton· da\ lhou~h l'nda\ l>t-adlmt: for nc.·xt UJ\ t.Li~'•tkd' ,., ~ p.m .\II d.1"1fkd' mu-.r ht· pn·pa1d. nthn m pt·ro.on or h\ nJJll < har)>tt" '" I o c. t.'nt' pt.·r th c c. hJrac.



Classifieds 
tn' ·r da\ 

LOST Campua View Apt.!!!!! Rent-$100.00, NEED 3 GA'S FOR MARQUETTE CALL. Ttta C8ller TGGR. dlrfing-1 propoee I '10111": here's ONE PAIR OF PRESCRIPTION Fernat.nonamoker pref. Call Ellen 1312. BIU AT 288-5442 Oler 150 titltiS in ltock including n-II· hoping tonight iapu"·fect. (yea I'm tryingNOTICES GLAUD bums by to butter you up.) Love(aquwed).FLFF. I wu riding in the backleat of your blue Need 2GA tix lOt' M11queHe C8ll Chril The Alarm 2-door at 10:30 am on Monday the 27th. 2467 TheCIUh Ride Of' Riders needed to Cincinnall U eit­
Booka Bought. Sold and Traded 7 0ay8 a You drove me down NO Ave and let me off WANTED Arcadia her weekend of 1/31 Of' 2n lntereated? at the Cffcle. I left my glauel in your back· STUDENT TICKET NEEDED FOR MAR­
week, Pandora'a Booka 937 South Bend Echo and the Bunnymen KC 284-4304 -1. If you find them can you bring them QUETTE GAME SAT. 1. WIU PAY$$$. ScrittiPolitti
Ave.• 233-2342. toTex at the South Dining Hal. PLEASE CALL PAUL at 1945. and even Barbara Streiaand! Barb 18y8, Mikey you can't eacape your Typing Available Aria & Sciences. Humanities. Theology, fate on Feb. 8 287-4082 TO THE PERSON WHO ACCIDEN· Engi...ering, and Busin811 Majcn, Save I NEED 2 MARQUETTE GA'S: 283-1639; Most single llbuma only $6. 98 
TALLY TOOK MY JACKET from the 25 percent on Textaat Panc:tora'a Books. JOHN$$ Only IIThe Cellar So Briody, Why don't you tell ua once 1/24/86 SMC Clubhouae pirly: Pleue 937 South Bend Ave.• 233-2342. La~Ofi\Jne baaement more the lignificance of Grounctlog·s return my jacket.
$1Q-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Clrcu ...! No QUIISiiOill liked. Day? Happy 19th. The~-.._. 3452
Noquotaal Sincerely intertiSied ru8h Mlf·addreued WANTED Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at Patti, Happy Birthday. and remember, 
LOIT: ..., cowboy hat with lllc:helob PERSONALS 272-HikE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am patience ia a vinue. How about a tum
envelope: Succeea. POBox 470COO. Inexpensive electric typewriter in running Woodltock, IL 60098. band In dlnlnt hall. c.l Jim 1HO. Monday· Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; around the duckl Sunday night? 
condition. call 239-5604 and uk lOt' 
. ..................... . 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday
Betty. Thankl.
loet MONEY.BANKING & FINANCIAL 

The oppoaite of lonelineu ... it's not MARKETS BOOK in Bulineu building DAVE FLANAGAN 
togetherness. It is intimKy. GOVERNMENT JOBS. name and addr... 11e on the inside FORUMOC 
Aide needed to Wabaah College lANDY •oTHAM 
lCrawfOt'dlviHe, IN) I of1en wonder why I worship the ground $16,04Q-$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. cover; call John AT 1 024 Of' Purdue Ul"'fversity. • Rich11d Bach, you walk on--then I aeethatamile o1 yourscall 805-687·6000 Ext. R-9834 lOt' cur· The llrldga Acroaa Forev• and once again my qutiSiion ia ana-ed
Weekend o1 Feb. 14-16 
rent feder .. liat LOST: Pair of Brown GlovtiS in Gym 4 of Aftentlon ulad bar ceptlln on Satur­
Will share costs. Cindy 2687 GOOD LUCK THIS WEEKEND! 
the ACC on Tuesday. Jan. 28. P1HH call Hate sometimes standi quite close to day nlghta In •cMCtlon: You're doing TYPING 808 at1248 if found. My handlare freez­love. a great )Ob. Keep up the good worll. ing!
CAll CHRIS God too standi oft11n near to evil ' like Youradmlrwa I shot a moose once on first floor Alumni. silent ch811men • aide by Side. Only the LOST: A PAIR OF LONG,RED GLOVES call joann. 3878 
color o1the aquartiS ia different. Ever get a craving lOt' aoccer BURGER? Anentlon: ltuctenta IN WASHINGTON HALL DURING FAT· HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND 
.................... """·········· 

Dotorw Frwtela HERBLANTZ'S 10:10HISTORYCLASS. NEED 8 TIXS FOR MAROUETIE 8-·calvin Miller, TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT 
KEENAN REVUE nCKET DtiTRI•u-

Typlnt larvl~ IF FOUND. CALL KAY AT 3208. BAL.L GAME CALL 284-4052 OR 4048 
AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE 
TlON hae a phone chengl HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND 
Monday, February 3 Notre Dame: ACC 

217-11)1 LOST:1 BlUE HALF SIZED NOTEBOQI( NEED 4 DAYTON GA.'S MAR 8 ·1573 FrouFrou: TIE 
Gate 10 at 4 pm no ~ntiS befOt'e 1:30 pm JOURNAL CONTAINED VERY PER· I hope you·re hungry .. How11d Hall pt'BHnl8 
Saint Mary'a: O'Laugh~n Auditorium at 5 

SONAl INFORMATION PLEASE the annuaJ
Struck by • saeper pm no hnes before 2:30pm ID'I required.
RETURN IF FOUND TO SAlliE 284· Hat and Tle Party One 10 per ticket Two ID'I per peraon
5012 ChMp modem adapt.ble to IBM. What do PREGNANT? Saturday Night BUSINEA EXPREM. INC. you have? Call 5337 8-12/1·5 or 287-NEED HELP? Who uys there's nothing to do in 
Salut Meca et Nanu, Une Meue 1 Ia 

Wonlproceeeint and typll'll I am irate! Thil ia the third time in a week 8881 after 5:30. Call 234-()363. 24-hr. hotline. counseling February? francaiae aura heu ce dimanche a 17h15 272-1127 that the honeet people of Notre Dame HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND
&free pregnancy teal8. dana le Log Cabin. On vous invite d'y par­
have helped my belonging& dieaw-. If WOMEN'S CARE CENTER TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE tiCiper. Alorl? you walked off with the red Kangof cap I TYPING -Pick-up & delivery on campua. left in 114 O'Shag, pleaae cal me at3564 
TrtiS bien dit, Gregoire . 

Will check apelling. Quality guaranteed by It wu a Chriatma Pf-1 and I'm pretty FOR SALE Have you ever played Adventure? What
Put Extra $$ in your pocketl instead of a proltiSiiONI SUSAN· 287-9257 fond of it. PleaH 8how aome decency and do you do in the lhell room? HELP! Call
someone else'a. Save 25 percent on texta reaffirm my faith in the Chrillianity of lhi1 1401
at Pllndora'a Booka, 937 South Bend The quote of the dinner-A aays, "I ~ke TYPING Term pepars, reeume., lat­IChool Ave., 233-2342. 
Mark's atomach... t-.~--R•aaanllllh,._; Imagine that -pretending to be 111eep to 
OAR HOUlE: COI.D .EEA & UOUOR. LISA ROSE HOLLENIIECK 
pldwp & dellviry on canpu... FOUND: Buketball tix-bleacher ...... lake out an alarm clock. Oh you nutty ..,.......__ c.l cathy lchultz ...._.. Identify aection, row. and -tnumber to 5 bdrm. houH. fully fumiahed, Ill ap­people.
CARRY OUT TO »A.M. U.S. J1 N., 1 Tomorrow, turns twenty. calli from cute ~10 p.m. 217-151M. ciiMm. They were found a few dly8 ago. pliancee and furniture included. Nice 
aOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. men. 8he'M geta'plenty .o if you're cute & call Mike at 2524 neighborhood, great inveatment. 4 miles H~ Hal Hat and Tle Party 
.......... young. give the tau a call. Sing to her . from NO. $22,000. Call eveninga. 288-HOOP HYSTERIA T-IHififq Saturday, 9 p.m. exchange delightful banter, and all! Her LOIT: Okay, thlal8!1't funny anymor.. 3109. Support Logan Center and the baaketball BulBS leave main circle and Holy Crou phone il 2963 Happy 20th ma cherie! 
My HP-11C calcUielor 1oat In the...., (SMC) every 15 minuttiS
team! Lave. Mary
LOST/FOUND I 

..._ 1aat aemu• Ia .ell mt.alng. Long and ahort lllevtiS Ticketa IIOid at the door Could whoev• "-h P'-return h to Stop by Room 221 StanfOt'd Who Hys there·• nothing to do in Loat & Found on the 2nd fir. or call2089/2078 lOt' delivery February? Happy Birthday to you 
LOST: Black & White woven~-On it il LaFortune? 

TICKETS 
Happy Birthday to you 
a tag mting it wu made in ireland. Cal . ................. . 

Happy Birthday dear Liaa and Beth. Tim at1214. ITOLEN : My black book bag wu taken SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­Around the COt'ner Club invitea ALL STU­Happy Birthday to youlboth)! from the South Dining H.. during YES, I have $$$ and, YES. I am plicationa deadline ia February 3. MOt"e DENTS to the Alumni-Senior Club on Lave. Maria If you acciden...y took my long. black. Thurwday'alunch ( 1/30). laaw the peiW)n desperately Heking up to 4 lfour) ticketl info at Center lOt' Social Concerns. Saturday night to enjoy the aoundl of wool coat on Sat. night at the O.C. party who acted 11 if he wu refiling the paper to the Marquette game!!! Call me so my WORD OF MOUTH!!!!! on Manl, could you pleaee return it? I am in the copying machine. and am aural wiM "We C8n Make You Laugh" on Febuary8 ................ . us choc. cake
friends don't have to haten to the game on ·························· 
Dad il great, he made freeZing! The tic tacs 11e you,. but I rNiy be able tc identify hia picture in the AD­the radio. GREG· 4186, THATS GREG not YOU win 125 ·IRISH GARDENS-IRISH GARDENS·
~ Lucian ia grNt. 'cauae he brought the need my 1.0. and coati>Kk'3738 MINISTRATION FILES. So if your the guy -4186 . .. ............... ................................ IRISH GARDENS-Are you intereated in cake. Judy ate the cake. and threw up on who thought hia CRIME -perfect; working thia aemeater and next year? If
"Tout To TheN-Year" her date, llld he wu late, ·cauae he wu LOST: A thick, chain-linked gold bracelet THINK AGAIN and come to your"'-· Jan 31 9:30-1am you 11e on financi.. lid and we intereated kidnapped by hia roommate! with I larve ctaap. It WM loet Fri., Jln. Return the bag to italaat poeition near the HCCSMC in working 11 THE IRISH GARDENS,
DESPERATELY SEEKING 1 MAR·
17th. It hal incredible _.timental vllue copier Of' 10011 pay the conNqUence.. Food. Favors and Countdown pleue come by and pick up an applica­MAN MAGNET 
OUETIE BASKETBALL TICKET.
and cannot be replaced. If you have any tion (buement of LaFortune). They
OJ and Dancing LISA HOLLENBECK PLEASE CALL RAOUEL AT 2907
information, pleaN cal Ka-en at 1884. FOUND: One HI of lludenl Buketbell lnf0t'1Tl81 $1 MUST be in by FRIDAY. JAN. 31at 5:30­
Happy 20th ..rthday Thank You. Tickel8 at SeniOt' Bar on 1/29. Cal 272· EVERYONE WELCOME!! No purchue necBIIIIY and NO LATEA!! with love.
I NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR MARYLAND
2385 to identify aection and row. CHICK MAGNET 
GAME. CALL 2842.
La.!: pair of ~ght Ot'lnQB rim glauee in a 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY l YONS!!HAPPY maroon caae, if found cal Erin 284-5276 Happy Birthday Alyson!!!! Gu... you're· BIRTHDAY LYONS!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY
NEED 2-4 MatqueHe GA'a; CALL JIM at 
2397;$$$ ..moat aver the hiM now Lave Marc p.a. LYONS!! MOVIE MARATHON THIS Happiest 1 /2 8-Day. Martin FOUND: Men"a Wristwatch· Cal Tom Good luck on the new job' SATURDAY!!!!! FUN FLICKS!!!!!! FREE From a1 your BUDS at SMC 
[ 'FOR RENT
Beatty at 2308 after 1 0 pm to identify. 
POPCORN!!!!!!!! NOON "TOP
1 

The SAB announcea the rebirth of Rock HAT"(FRED&GINGER) 2:00 LOST: WOMAN'S NO RING WITH BlUE NEEDED: TWO MARQUETTE GA'S duLac: THANK-YOU ST. JUDE 
"CASABLANCA"(BOGY!) 4:00 • "REAR STONE AND INSIDE INSCRIPTION: N.D. Ave. Apt lOt' rent • if interelled call WIU.. PAY$$$$$$ DAVE 2n-9026 It's b4gger! It's betrer! W1NDOW'(HITCHCOCK) 6:00 LEA 83 CALL. JOANN AT 3878. Shirley at 234-6647 You can even ...kIn I 'MONTY PYTHON'S HOLY .JRAIL!" WHAT DO GEORGE HALAS AND THE 
NEED IIAIIOUETTE TlCKETIIII lt'aTheCelw! EVERYONE WELCOME!!! GROUND HOG HAVE IN COMMON? LOST: MULTICOLORED WOOLEN LARGE FOU...at!DROOIII HOME WILL Student tix Of' G.A.I Discount AecOt'dl, T IPIIS, and a whole lot THEY WERE BOTH BORN ON PATRICK SCARF OF GREAT SENTIMENlAL ACCOIIIIODATE FIVE STUDENTS. Cell Sheila at 272·1 068 mOt"e! ATIENTION WHEEL FANS!!! Pat Satak ROGERS' BIRTHDAY. 
VALUE MAYBE AT NO/SO DINING COIIPUTEL.Y FUMIIHED. CALL LaFortune Buement Fan Club now fOt"ming. Call272..0249 for HALL. REWARD. CALL MARY AT 2206 NANCY HU...ARGIER D4-t»4. delalll. THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR 
., 
-

The Observer Friday, january 31, 1986-page 11 
Briefs 
continuedfrom page 10 
The ND Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting Tuesday at 7:30p.m. in the LaFortune Center. Anyone in­terested is welcome to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4761.-The Obseroer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NV A.-The Obser­ver 

CAMElOT 

The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shin just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NV A. -The Obseroer 
Hydrorobics,aerobics in the water, will begin Monday at 
6:45 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Classes will be held every Monday and Wednesday. For more information call NVA.. The Ob· 
sen'er 
Hockey 
continuedfrom page 16 
for 28 total points. The play of these four individuals should prove cru­cialjn the outcomes of both games. 
It is interesting to note that the 
Irish are 6-2· I at home but are strug­
gling to a record of2-1 1 on the road. 
But the Irish are undefeated against 
Lake Forest and hoping to stay that 
way. With an improved defense and 
a strong offensive effort, the team 
has a good shot ofdoing so. 

MUSIC IS MUSIC, MOVIES, ANDMORfl PRESENTS VIDEOBARG~IIIS\ ·al Select•onSpec• sgg99 SAVI $2°0 011AllYA&BUM $3''ANDUPI• Movies As High As Intire lntfentory • Classical, Pop, Rock, Jazz, Country And More!ONSALEIIOW Including Titles On These Labels: $f99. $29" P ,G ,~-L)"u''cs'. n ~ "i>1 ~-" II:CII' , ·., ncn. ... ......... ~ ~ ~ ~ ....,.._ 6\ ~ rzBi.i ~ rn G~~ ~­~ L!8 MUST& Y:.~ MCA ~! Prices Good Through•Excluding Cassetles. 12" Stngles. Compacl Discs and Sale-priced Albums. 2/12/86SAVE UPTO 40% Riva Portrait RCAA&M JOHN COUGAR MEU£NCAMP SADE t.·~-·· §lfAlR§lH~~oSCAJmiJW PROMISE including:FEATURING The Sweetest Taboo/Ish A Crime ·hnee deep in the hooplaR.O.C.K. In The USA War Of The Hearts Never As Good As The First Time/Fear ~ Includes: Sara Reg. 18.99-You Pay 16.99 LP/Cassette Reg. 18.99-You Pay 16.99 LP/Cassette Reg. 18.99-You Pay '6.99 LP/Cassette Reg. 18.99-You Pay 16.99 LP/Cassette Arista Ca EDDIE 1\IURlJJJ\'DIONNE WARWICK 110\\' COl'I,D IT BE (ii••>lFRIENDS including: ' Party All The Time/Do 1/C-0-N Confused How Could It Bell. Me. Us. We Reg. 18.99-You Pay 16.99 LP/CassetteReg. •8.99-You Pay '6.99 LP/Cassette Reg. '8.99-You Pay '6.99 LP/Cassette Fieg. '8.99-You Pay '6.99 LP/Cassette Capitol TOM PEmAND THE HEARTBREAKERS PACK UP THE PLANTATION LIVE! Greatest Hots LiveSomething unreleased oertc>rmances oncouaona: ANDTo Talk About ROCK AUTILE Includes Talk To Me f10d~rn -~ Reco~!jl '!.I Can't Wait Sister Honey Reg. '8.99-You Pay 16.99 LP/Cassette Reg. 19.99-You Pay •7.99 LP/Cassette Reg. •9.99-You Pay •7.99 LP/Cassette Reg. '10.99 ·You Pay •8.99 LP/CasseHe Compact Discs Are Subject To Manufacturer Availability. Up To 8 HoursNewSAVfSJOO For Recording Time!Our Best Improved Standard GradeState-Of-The-JVC Deal! Picture! Art Recording! T-160 Reg. •7.99ONVHS Standard Grade HR High Grade Hi-Fi T-120 T-120 Reg. 15.99 T-120 Reg. 16.99 Reg. 17.99 SALEVIDEOCASSEJTES SALE SALE SALE $699FROMJVC $499 $699$5'' .JVC University Park Mall: 272-4186 Movie Dept: 272-4211 I Movies for Sale or Rent  

----~------~~~----~--------....-......----------....~111!111111...____________ 
The Observer Friday,January 31, 1986-page 12 
ND track team shooting to repeat as MCC titlists tomorrow at ACC 
Irish track fans will not have an opportunity to see the highly rated two-mile relay team of Nobles, McNelis, Jim Tyler and jeff VanWie tomorrow. The foursome has been quite impressive in the past two weeks but Piane has decided not to enter them in this meet. 
"We won't be running our top team in the two-mile because it's hard to run a great time on the tight track in the ACC," explained Piane. "Also, you need strong competitors to push you and they really won't be here." 
It will not be the most challenging meet ofthe year for Notre Dame, but in the words of Piane, "it's always nice to win". The championships get underway in the north dome of the ACC at 12:30 with the last race scheduled for 2:55. Only one offour home meets, Saturday is a rare chance for Irish fans to see Notre Dame's talented track team in ac­tion. 



ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
lf the recent history of the Mid­western Collegiate Conference Championships is any indication, it should be a successful afternoon for the Notre Dame track team this Saturday. The Irish have won the title every year since their inception into the conference in 1983 and head coach joe Piane is confident that his track team can extend the streak to four in a row. 
"We should do very well based on (our success) the first three years," said Piane. "We have dominated the meet in the past so we should win again this year." 
The Irish have, indeed, dominated their competition in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Champion­ships. Last year, out ofa possible 495 points, Notre Dame garnered 242.5 to easily win the championship. 
Conference members Butler, Oral Roberts, Loyola, Detroit and Evansville will again find it difficult to upset the Irish at the ACC this year. 
Many of Notre Dame's top run­ners are expected to have good showings this Saturday afternoon. Tim Brown and Tony Ragunas in the 60-yd dash, Van Pearcy in the quarter mile, Robert Nobles in the 600-meter dash andjohn McNelis in the 800-meter run should provide some of the best finishes for the Irish. 
Other Irish performers will be Rick Mulvey in the 1000-meter run, Mike Brennan in the hurdles, and Mike Collins, john Magill and Tom Warth in the three-mile run. Representing Notre Dame in the field events will be joel Autry and Rick Muench in the long jump, Chris Matteo in the pole vault and Dave Pohlen in the shot put. 

well as his pupils. In addition to the match will definitely be a chance "Sophomore Molly Sullivan and being named coach of the year by at some revenge for them. freshman janice Hines are the key

DeCicco Fencers
the American Fencing Coaches As­"All I hope is that it won't turn for the team," said DeCicco. "Ifthese sociation in 1966, 1975, and 1977, into a blowout, altough ifit has to be two have the day I hope, they can
continuedfrom page 16 continuedfrom page 16 
DeCicco was selected to coach the that way, I wouldn't mind ifit was us beat Wayne State.lfthey beat Wayne sphere. It is easy to work at a univer­United States World Games fencing Australian epee fencer who should blowing them out." State and beat them handily, they sity such as this." team in 1970. And the ultimate com-fill in any gaps. Teams from Tri-State University, should go undefeated for the rest of
.' 
DeCicco took control of the Irish 
"With our returning seniors, Eastern Michigan, Michigan­the season." 
fencing program in 1962, replacing junior (all-American) Charles Higgs­Dearborn, and the University of
l
•j ·, a successful Walter M. Langford, Coulthard, and freshmen like Derek Detroit also will be on hand during If the men come out on top after who chalked up a 155-35 slate in 15 Holeman, it should all even out. It's Sunday's meet, but none of these Sunday's meet, things won't be quite years. Although he went 7-8 in his really just a matter of exchanging teams is expected to present quite so simple. The Irish still face some rookie season as coach, DeCicco apples for oranges." so much of a challenge as Wayne tough competition from the ftlled Langford's shoes well with a In the foil competition, senior State. DeCicco feels that the remainder of their schedule, and 1963 squad that went 14-2 and was Mike Van der Velden, Higgs­strongest of the other teams, Ohio State and Illinois are the major just the first in a long list ofwinning Coulthard, and Holeman should Detroit, has two or three fencers of concerns after Sunday's meet. Still, teams. provide the Wayne State team with national championship quality, but, DeCicco maintains his faith in his 
just about all that it can handle, "they can't match up man for man" Irish team.
In his 24 years ofcoaching he has 

while in the sabre the Irish will go with the overall strength ofthe Irish.
had 23 consecutive winning with the experienced trio ofseniors According to DeCicco, all three of "I think we can beat the national 

seasons, six undefeated seasons, two Mike DeCicco 

Tony Consoli, john Edwards, and the remaining teams · Tri-State, Eas· powers like Penn State, Penn,
successive NCAA championships 

pliment came in 1973 when Don johnson. DeCicco sees this tern Michigan, and Michigan­Columbia, and Illinois, and we'll be 
teams and was named coach of the 

Decicco's contributions to fencing phase of the competition as in­Dearborn are experiencing ready for the nationals." 
year three times. But he still feels 

were recognized by his selection to strumental to an Irish victory. building seasons and are featuring Sunday's competition is
there is more to accomplish. 

the Helms Hall of Fame. "I'm hoping that our three sabre many young fencers. scheduled as follows: Tri-State, 9 "Coach DeCicco is a fantastic per­men can take all of the matches The women's team also is expect· a.m.; Eastern Michigan, 10:30;"I have been here a long time," son," adds current Irish fencer Molly against their number three man," ing a tough match on the strip Michigan-Dearborn, 12:00; Detroit,says Decicco, with a smile. "But I Sullivan. "He has taught us so much DeCicco says. against Wayne State on Sunday. 1:30; Wayne State, 3:00. 
haven't quite seen it all yet. There 

about the sport as well as about our­In epee, seniors Mike Castigan and
are some more things I would like to selves. He keeps us working so that Christian Sherpe will anchor a deepsee for this programs and the poten­we never forget what we could be if Irish attack that also features thetial is there with this year's teams. 

we are dedicated." talent ofjuniorsjohn Haugh and TimThey are loaded with talent and 
Although DeCicco will admit him­Vaughan.
could go all the way if the coaching 

self that there will come a day when "Ifany one ofourfencers has a bad
doesn't screw them up." 

he will leave his position as coach at day, it's going to be hard to make it 
And DeCicco knows talent when Notre Dame, his name will always up against a team as talented as he sees it. He has tutored 20 Notre carry on. The tradition ofexcellence Wayne State," said DeCicco. "When Dame All-Americans and only three that he has established in athletics you have nine good fencers against times has one of his fencers finished and in the administrative level will nine good fencers, you lookfor a soft with more than three setbacks in a certainly be a difficult one to repeat, spot. This match might go down to season. That kind of knowledge has but at least we can say that we've the last touch. Wayne State is com­earned him praise from his peers as been shown by the best. ing in on Sunday loaded for bear, and 


Attention all Juniors  
Junior Parents Weekend table reservations for President,s Dinner Sunday, Feb. 2 7-9 pm Tuesday, Feb. 4 7-9 pm COME TO: Basement ofLAFORltJNE RRING: Maximum of6 student J.D.'s to reserve two tables (9-10 people pertable) to facilitate seating with friends. Information for each J.D.: -numberofpeoplein each party -Home zip code Table reservations are mandatory ifyou plan on attending the dinner, even ifyou have not yet registered for the weekend! Please Note: Table number assignment will be random and not dependent on the time you come to register.  

J 
j 
J 
Wish yqur friends a Happy Birthday thrqugh Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 fQr details. 
IMPRESS THAT· SPECIAL PERSON! 
Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage 

SPECIAL! Jan. 25-Feb. 14, 1986 
NEW! Acu-massage bed $3 per 15 minutes Buy 3 visits, get one &ee 
Call 277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road
1M-HAWA1fAN Mishawaka 
BED 10 visits $39.00 1visit $4.50 BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 1 visit $2.00 

... 
-



The Obserwr Friday, January 31, 1986 -page 13 

Irish swimmers back at home, set for meet today 

By BOB KEMPER advantage in the distance;oriented Welsh did not have as much to 
Sports Writer events. However, collegiate swim­say, meanwhile, about the men's ot­
ming is directed towards sprint her opponent, Oral Roberts, aJ. 
The Notre Dame swimming teams freestyle. though this is not because he doesn't 
return to the Rolfs Aquatic Center "The second indicator of meet expect them to be competitive. It is 
today for their first home meets results," continued Welsh, "is to see simply because he doesn't know 
since Dec. 8. The women host Oral who owns the diving boards. St. what to expect from their Midwes­
Roberts at 4 p.m., while the men take Bonaventure is clearly stronger and tern Collegiate Conference rival. 
on both Oral Roberts and St. more experienced in the diving "This is the first-ever dual meet 
Bonaventure at 7 p.m. events." meeting between Notre Dame and 
For the men, the meet provides an Despite Coach Welsh's concern Oral Roberts. We have no common 
opportunity to gain respect from St. regarding St. Bonaventure's ap-opponents. At the conference meet 
Bonaventure, who gave them their last year, our men placed higher 
worst beating ofthe 1984-85 season, than the men from Oral Roberts, but 
81-31. St. Bonaventure possesses a a dual meet team and a champion­
7-3 record this year with its three ship team are quite different." 
loses coming at the hands ofnational Although it appears that Notre 
swimming powerhouses Tennessee, Dame is involved in a tri-meet with 
Pittsburgh, and Florida State. Notre Oral Roberts and St. Bonaventure, 
Dame and St.. Bonaventure have had the contest wiU actually be scored as 
one common opponent this year, three simultaneous dual meets. 
Cleveland State. St. Bonaventure "It will be very difficult for a spec­
prevailed, 65-48, while Notre Dame tator to interpret all three meets if 
....-1.

lost 71.5 to 41. 5. any of them are close," admitted 
Tim Welsh

"They are an exceptionally fast Welsh. team in the relay events and in the parent superiority. he welcomes the As for the women's meet, the Irish sprint freestyle events," said Irish challege. coach is also in the dark about the Coach Tim Welsh. "If you were to "The team is continually improv­women from Oral Roberts. Oral map the two teams out com­ing T! · ,'len are stronger than they Roberts joined the North Star Con­paratively, St. Bonaventure has an were at this time last year. Our goal ference this year, so the two teams advan,age in the sprint-oriented is to close the gap as much as pos­have not previously competed. The events whereas we have an sible against St. Bonaventure." Notre Dame women have won the 
4.5 million dollar Rolfs natatorium 
already paying off for ND students 
ByJOHN WALTERS crowded, and students found them­own specialty at pretty much the Sports Writer selves in greater need of patience same time. We couldn't do that last than a decent flutter kick. year. 
Don't tell Ronald Reagan or the But that's all water under the Grace also has seen a change in at­lJ.S.S Yorktown, but Notre Dame has bridge. Rolfs has 14 lanes and swim­titude. The new 4S,OOO square-foot expanded its territorial waters. In mers doubling up in a lane is rare. natatorium not on.ly dwarfs the Rock fact, they've been more than Rolfs also houses water polo, various but it has brought the Irish swim­doubled in size. instructional courses, and yes, even ming family closer together. It's the Rolfs Aquatic Center, the water basketball. Those who've WhereaS-in previous years the men's 4. 5 million dollar state-of-the-art ventured to the far end of the ACC and women's teams had to practice swimming complex located in the like what they've seen. at different times, this year both ACC, and it is drawing rave reviews "Its modern feel really impressed squads practice together under first­from varsity swimmers and water me at first sight,"said sophomore year head coach Tim Welsh. The ef. hoopsters alike. Dave Phillips. "In the times I've been fects have been beneficial in many 
there, there hasn't been a wait for a ways.

The facility began operations this 
lane." "We're a much more team­past fall, and it boasts a 50-meter If the "1 0 laps a day" student is spirited unit this season,"said Grace.
Olympic-sized pool with two happy about Rolfs, the varsity swim­"We're finally meeting the girls,"movable bulkheads, allowing the mers are ecstatic. added Koselka.
pool to be sectioned off for different 
"It's a great facility in its own But it is quality, not quantity, thatuses at the same time. Thus, the 
right," noted sprinter Jeff Grace, is allowing Rolfs to transport Irishdiving pool is now separate from the 
"but when you compare it to what swimming into a new era. Additionsswimming area. and re.creational 
we had last year (Rockne), Rolfs is a such as a racing gutter, starting
swimmers no longer need to fear real pleasure." blocks, and a scoreboard with its
kamikaze divers scoring a hit, as 
"It's less crowded,"added fellow own timing system are facilitatingcould happen at the Rock. 
sprinterJohn Koselka. "tast year we faster swimming times. 
Prior to this year, Notre Dame stu­had five or six swimmers per lane "The racing gutter is especially dents satisfied their amphibious during practice, and now there are helpful, since it absorbs a swimmer's urges at the Rockne Pool, but that only two or three. This added space bow waves when he turns at the pool has been a campus fixture allows us a chance to practice our wall,"said Grace. longer than Father Hesburgh, individual events and techniques Rolfs is open every day of the opening in 1938. With only six without disturbing the distance week for recreational use, and it lanes, Rockne Pool often was over-men. Everybody can work on their seats 400 for swimming events. 
FEB. 2 10pm.? 
conference championship meet the past two years so today's dual meet will provide valuable preparation for this year's championship meet. 
One member of the women's team to watch in particular is sop­homore diver Andrea Bonny. She has set the Notre Dame women's records in both the one-meter and three-meter diving events. In addi­tion, she has qualified for the NCAA Division I zone divingchampionship 

Andrea Bonny 
whi<:h takes place at Ohio State in March. If she fares well there, she will go on to the NCAA national championship. 
Rcgan.llcss of· the fact that the Notre Dame men stand at 2·3, and the women at 4-2, Welsh is ex­
tremely pleased with the progress of both teams. 
"The improvement of both teams has been excellent. The men and women are swimming faster and faster every week. In meets against St. John's and Fordham last weekend, we had seasonal best times in every event except one. That included 35 for the women and 38 for the men." 
Welsh attributes the team's success to hard work, intrasquad competition, and good team morale. 
"The team works together very closely," he noted. "It is a very con­genial group of people. The people have a good time swimming and working . together. It is a real pleasure to coach this team." 
Aside from tomorrow's action, the Irish swimmers have several other home meets in the next two weeks. The men host Bradley on Feb. 6 and Ferris State on Feb. 8, while the women take on Illinois-Chicago and Valparaiso on Feb. 7 before meeting St. Mary's at the Rockne Memorial on Feb. 12. These are the last home dates of the year for both the men and the women. 


11w Obeenet/Hanna Haclrrr 

A Notre Dame swimmer dives beadfirst into action in a meet earlier this season at the new Rolfs Aquatic Center. Bob Kemper previews today's home meet atRolfs in bts story above, whtlejobn Walters describes tbe advantages of the new Irish natatorium at left. 



Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
guards as well as Copa coming off the bench, they can go seven or eight good people that can just play the game. I think what makes them so good is that they're just good ath­letes and they just don't quit. I think that's always been a Marquette trademark, and Rick (Majerus) has carried it on." 
For the Irish, tomorrow's game will be the first of four games in an eight-day span, a situation akin to post-season tournament play. 
"The key now is how do we keep healthy and stay rested," said Phelps, "and play four games in eight days against the type of teams we're playing against as well as knowing what's down the road with seven of our last ten games on the road. 
"We're still trying to condition .(the team). These two games which we're playing Saturday and Monday night are no different than·a regional first and second rounds." 
IRISH ITEMS -One thing on which Phelps will have worked his squad by tomorrow is boxing out on the defensive end. Phelps expressed anger with his team for allowing Utah 18 points off of offensive rebounds... Irish forward Ken Bar­low was tied with UCLA's Reggie Miller for eighth in free throw percentage as of Monday. After the Utah game, Barlow is shooting at a .907 percentage from the charity stripe. 
. 
j'i>J 


··:·"1£ •
' ·.'...

·~·;.-.·~ f!Rfji /f.J.. .. ·I
~ . 

·, . ' -~ ·.!V.~ .. 
. l"''"""J .· ""'... 
~,. •. .it _.n ·.,._. ,..­
-....... ···-~ • • • . 4 .-r· .. -.,..;..: .·~ ..·.. 


! ! 
~ 
i 
l ) 
I ~ ~ 
I 
·~ !!
I \ 
f I 
I I I 
I 
: { 
' lI 
I 
! 
r 
!, 
J· 
I 
j 
l 
J 
\ 
~ 
)! 
J· 
! 
j 
I { I 
Friday, January 31, 1986-page 14
The Observer 


Irish set for Evansville in NSC weekend clash 


teammates will face Lake Forest tonight and Sun­day. Mike Keegan previews all the action in his story on page 16. 
By LARRY BURKE 
AssistantSports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basket· ball team will be looking to extend its 16-game North Star Conference winning streak Sun~ay afternoon when it goes on the road to take on the Purple Aces ofEvansville. 
The 11·6 Irish also will be trying to win their fourth straight game, and their second straight on the road. Wednesday night Notre Dame went to Indianapolis and beat Butler handily, 91-40, in the Hinkle Field House to raise its season conference mark to a perfect 4·0. 
"Wednesday night we got a pretty good all-around performance," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "We got balanced scoring from (senior forward) Trena Keys, (sophomore center) Sandy Botham, and (senior guard) Lynn Ebben. We also got good outside production from (sophomore guard) Mary


SMC swimmers fall to Kalamazoo 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team traveled to Kalamazoo, Mich., on Wednesday, where it lost to Kalamazoo College by a score of66­46. 
The Belles, now 1·2 on the season, showed a good deal ofimprovement at the meet in spite of the loss, at least according to Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz. 
"Most of the swimmers dropped 
their times from the last meet," Kuz­
mitz said. "We are definitely getting 
better, but we do have a little way to 
go yet before Nationals." 
Freshman Bridget Murphy high· 
lighted the meet for the Belles with 
her diving performance, totaling 
133.55 points. 
"Bridget took first place in the six optional dives," Kuzmitz said. "She finished second in the five required 
Queen's Castle 
·_____.-('·_.-){~t· · & The Knights ~">1.:~:.~~-~rw $5student $8.50 comolete
~'££ Gt~' .+j.+ -­
--·---~ cut style 
MINUTES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUpENTS 
now women included too. 
We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minutes ... Not Hours 
Ironwood & St. Road 23 (Across From Martin's) 
dives, too, so we were pretty thrilled about that." 
Other first place finishers for the Belles were Joyce Murtagh, a senior, who swam the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:08.10, and Meghan Rafferty, a sophomore, who won the I 00-yard backstroke with a time of 2:25.55. 
The Belles were successful in the relay events, as well, according to Kuzmitz, who was pleased with the second place finishes. 
"I think we did well in the relays," Kuzmitz said. "They were really close, and we only lost by a touch." 
Rafferty, Murtagh, and juniors Mary Fisher and Patty )uckniess made up the 200-yard freestyle relay team, while Rafferty, Juckniess, freshman Tanya Reeves and junior Margaret Mannion swam the 200· yard medley relay. 
Senior Anne Cushing captured second place in two events. Cushing 
FRIDAY Ha1 ey's Comet Night...G 1 ow in the dark mugs & Bud Specials! 
SATURDAY BAND: II ~®[Jl[D ®lF [tt)@Wli100.. 
All students welcome !! No 1.0. Required! 
For Club Rentals... 
call Bryan Dedrick 

Gavin. Overall I'd say that the Butler finished the 1000-yard freestyle game was a good confidence­with a time of 12:20.73 and com· builder. pleted the 500-yard freestyle with a "We'll be playing our second 
time of 5:59.68. game on the road Sunday, and com­
The remaining second-place finis­ing away with another win will be hers for the Belles were Reeves, who utmost on our minds. We know we'll swam the 100-yard butterfly with a have to play a very good game if we time of 1:11.49, and Mannion, who want to come away with a win." finished the 200-yard breaststroke -Evansville stands at ~-1 0 and 1-1 with a time of 2:52.90. Murtagh in the conference. Today the Aces placed second in the 100-yard will face the Lady Titans ofDetroit in freestyle with a time of 1:00.40. another North Star matchup. 

Jn tlJanlutgtutng fur ltts manu vrars nf struict tn tlJt Nntrt llamt cnmmunttu. tl}t atass nftlJt lttsurr,cttnn will bt ctltbrattb 1Jrtbau Januaru 31 at 5:15pm at hcrtb Btart Qt~urc~. 'iSig e· iKHJmitgak bitb nfalttart attack 
nn IDutsbaylltrtmbtr 31~ 1985. 
Players to watch for Evansville are junior guard Gretchen Eisenhauer, sophomore center Karla Hughes, 5· 9 sophomore guard Barb Orpurt, and 5· 7 senior guard Barb Dykstra. Center-forward Kathy Sloan, a 6-0 junior, was averaging 6.8 points per game before going down with a 
stress  fracture  in  the  Aces'  fifth  
game.  
Eisenhauser,  at  5-11,  leads  the  

team in scoring with an average of 
16.7 points per game, followed by the 5·11 Hughes at 10.1 points per game. Dykstra adds an additonal 9.9 points per game, and Orpurt chips in with an average of 8.8 points per game. Hughes and Dykstra are the Lady Aces' top rebounders, averag· ing close to five per contest. 
"Evansville is always very, very tough at home," says DiStanislao. "They're capable of beating any team when they get them down there. It will be a typical North Star Conference game. The team that hits the boards, plays defense and plays solid offense will win." 
Notre Dame has never lost to Evansville, and holds a 4-0 record in the all-time series between the two teams. 
IRISH ITEMS· Keys needs just 3~ points to become Notre Dame's all· time leading scorer. . _ Irish take on a pair of North Star rivals in the ACC la:ter next week -Dayton on Wednesday and Xavier on Saturday, before hitting the road again. 

-




~4(Jt~tal~----------------------------------------F-r.id-ay_,_Ja_n_u_ary__3_1_,_19_8_6_-_p_a_ge
...15 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

~ 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 
/!;OY/ 1M//61NE If ~ f'!!dU HIIP 1t' t/1/e ~C$11 1/M:W& 7IIC ~~T 
Offi5WHO KJIKJW !Jtrffl? ,/ 
) c"'ve. 


··me l5t.IWil 
UJOI<IT 11115 6fl5(')t'£-· 

tXCI/6€ fY PU'Pt£ Hl/0 
fEI(£'6 ~1115/V~~. 1/IC 
11111T'S P!llt.tJ61£ ? 

~. fEAl/2£ 1HRT 
fiJfnc wr WfTH me CH&61-. 
~ / lr'S 64f'LW?C.

1+11M11 wee, 
IE II.JIIlK~ W 1lJ ~ 61/?l

fl.lmT 
51Yt./2!P~(£/

15t/WP I~ 6f/f?M£., 
HHJ oii9T57!Jt.£ H/5 (7liN 
61fi?!JII(:£ / ~/
IWP 511Y5 11J HCR ~· &ET KEII/lY

151HI6 ,? 
6f/K/JI166./
fiJI? 1H/6-IE sq~ ..1£'1_, 
\ 

' 

MIIJC¥? 
~C\X." 
_/ 

Zeto 

ACROSS 1 Household 
sharers 5 US president 9 Extent 
14 Part of QED 15 Diva's 
specialty 16 Wrongness 17 Middleman 19 Unit of 
length: var. 20 Lamour's 
costume 21 Trifling sum 23 Lorelei 24 On -(equal) 26 Moslem ruler 28 Fuss 29 Sha­30 Missile pit 31 Navy man: 
abbr. 32 Foul air 34 Stick In a 
game 36 Showman 
© 1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

38-mind 
All Rights Reserved

(remember) 
Thursday's Solution 

41 Better than better 3 Short coats 42 Cambridge 4 Sound system 
school letters 5 Expendable 45 Comic Johnson chessman 46 Highly excited 6 Pizza 48 Billionth: garnlshers 
comb. form 7 Fib 49 Cheers 8 Jayhawker 50 Sp. painter 9 Highway 51 Peevish trailer 52 Land and snow 10 Seer 54 Cylindrical 11 Apollo's 
and tapered sister 56 Shoe leather 12 Rounds up 57 Headman 13 Afore 60 Russ. guild 18 Weight 61 Beworthy 22 Unbroken areas 62 Gaelic 23 Sault -Marie 63 Ninnies 25 W•>man's bob 64 -majesty 27 A 5tooge 65 Used henna 32 -Lanka 39 Obliteration 51 Numerical 
33 ' ousehold 40 Sportsman prefix DOWN 35 r.olonger 42 Upper hand 53 Strike out 1 Instrument working: abbr. 43 Zealous 55 Thrall pin 36 Takes charge 44 Plaything 56 Droop 2 Slow disin· 37 Neutralizers 47 Glad tidings 58 Scot. explorer tegratlon 38 Shut off 48 Had to have 59 Spread hay 


Kevin Walsh 

.Campu-s 
FRIDAY 

•12:
15 P.M. · Vigil, Steps of Administration Building, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Net­work 

•4:00 
P.M. -Women's Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Oral Roberts, Rolfs .Aquatic Center 

•6:30 
P.M. -Meeting, lchthus Christian Fel­lowship Meeting, library Lounge 

•7:00 
P.M.· Men's Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Oral Roberts, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

•7:00 
P.M. -Video-Meeting, Alan 8oesak (video), Center for Social Concerns Building, Sponsored by Anti-Apartheid Network 

•7,9 
& 11:00 P.M. · Movie, "Rambo," En­gineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAD, $1.50 

•
7:30 & ( :30 P.M. -FridayNightSeries FUm, "Pauline At the Beach," Annenberg Auditorium 

•7:30 
P.M.· Dance, Logan Center, Sponsored by Council for the Retarded, 

•8:00 
P.M. -Lecture, Father Bruce Ritter, Covenant House, N.Y., library Auditorium, Sponsored by CILA 

•9:00 
P.M. -ISO Part)', Flanner Party Room, Sponsored by International Students Or­ganization 

•9:30 
P.M. -Party-Dance, "Toast to the New Year," D.J. and dancing, Haggar College Center, Sponsored by Saint Mary's College, $I -informal 


Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Roast Top Round ofBeef  Jumbo Burger  
Unguine & Vegetables  Prime Rib  
Baked Cod with Lemon  Ribeye Steak  
Chicken Salad Supreme on Bagel  Fried Shrimp  

Primitive spelling bees 
SATIJRDAY 
•8:00 
A.M. -Graduate Record Examlna­don, EngineeringAuditorium 

•12:00 
P.M. -Men's Swimming, Notre Dame vs. St. Bonaventure, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

•12:00 
P.M. -Championship of College Bowl, Room 234 Center for Continuing Education 

•12:30 
P.M. -Track, Midwestern Collegiate Conference, ACC Indoor Track 

• 
3:00 P.M. · Men's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Marquette, ACC Arena 

•7,9 
& 11:00 P.M. -Movie, "Rambo," En­gineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAD, $1.50 

•7:30 
P.M. -Ice Hockey, Notre Dame vs. Lake Forest, ACC Ice Arena 


SUNDAY 
•1
0:00 A.M. -Fencing, ACC Fieldhouse, 

•11:00 
A.M. · Spanish Mass, Father jim Karaffa, celebrant Farley Hall Chapel 

•1:00 
P.M.• Opening Exhibidons, .. Artists and Models: Portraits From the Hirshhorn Museum," and "Richard Stevens: Recent Photographs," Print Drawing and Photog­raphy Gallery and O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 








Fr~day,January 31, 1986-page 16 
Marquette invades ACC tomorrow in effort to ambush "perfect" Irish 
ByDENNIS CORRIGAN schedule and the strength of their leads the team with 4I blocked Sports Writer personnel, they're a very talented shots and is beginning to establish basketball team. Coming in here himself as one of the top centers in 
The Notre Dame basketball team after a loss (to Virginia Common­the nation. will look to keep its perfect 10-0 wealth on Monday), I'm sure they're "I first look at the improvement of home record intact when it enter­going to play very, very well because Down1ng as a dominating big man," tains the Warriors of Marquette they know it's one of the round­said Phelps of the transfer from Saturday afternoon at 3 p.m. at the robin games." DePaul. "For me, now, his stock has ACC. This will be the first game of Because it is one of the round­gone up after he played so well the season between the Irish and robin games, tomorrow's contest against North Carolina. (He's) one of Warriors under the four-team Great has an added importance by virtue the premier big men in the country Independent round-robin series. of the fact that it is a head-to-head and is probably a high draft pick with 
Coached by Rick Majerus, Mar­meeting between two of the top in­his potential." quette comes into tomorrow's game dependent teams in the country, a The Warrior backcourt is made up with a record of 12-6. But anyone fact underscored when Phelps of 6-4 senior Benny Moore ( 10.4 who saw its 66-64 loss to North refused to comment on Monday ppg., 2.6 rpg) and 6-I junior Kevin Carolina knows that the Warriors night's game wtth Maryland. Johnson (7.8 ppg., 73 assists on the have the potential to pull off an up­"Marquette's our priority," Phelps season). Coming off the bench is set against the Irish, including Head · commented. "That's the NCAA bid Michael "Pops" Sims, who started Coach Digger Phelps. right there. That's the indepen­nine previous games, averages 5.4 
"Obviously Marquette is coming dents." points and has dished out 78 assists in knowing that they really want to The Warriors are led by 6-6 for­so far this year. win the game, that they have to win ward David Boone. The junior is Another key reserve for Mar­the game," said Phelps. "It's one of averaging 14.8 points and I0.2 quette is 6-10 center Tom Copa, those situations where if they beat rebounds per game. joining him on who averages 8.2 points and 4.4 Notre Dame , it gives them instant the forward line is 6-6 senior Kerry rebounds in his back-up role. credibility as far as we're ranked and Trotter, who is scoring 14.5 ppg. and "I think Boone has been a good ad­they're not ranked. pulling down 6. 1 rebounds a night. dition to their front line along with 
"In my opinion, they've played The man in the middle for Mar­Trotter who has the shooting very, very well. To me, they're one quette is 6-9 senior Walter ability," Phelps noted. "With their of the top 30 or 35 teams in the na­Downing, who while only averaging 
see IRISH, page 13

tion. Given the strength of their 6.4 points and 3.7 rebounds a game, 
Irish hockey team gears up for big weekend set 
By MIKE KEEGAN going 0-6) by defeating Lake Forest, team inconsistency. Smith feels that To gain consistency the Irish will two lines coupled with few tur­Sports Writer 6-3. a stronger defense will be a stabiliz­need strong play from their first two novers will result in a successful Irish Head Coach Charles "Lefty" ing influence. lines. On the first line Brent Chap­weekend campaign." 
After a well-deserved week off, Smith believes that the Foresters "The team has been up and down man and Tim Reilly will play on the For the year McNeill has led the the Notre Dame hockey team. will have a very young team and, as a all season long," said Smith. "All wings with Jeff Badalich playing the Irish in scoring. He has 12 goals and return to action this weekend with result, have suffered the same week we have been working on the center position. The second line is 22 assists for a total of34 points. Also an away-and-home series against problems of inconsistency that have defensive portion ofour game. Lake led by Mike McNeill, a sophomore helping to relieve some of the of­Lake Forest. Tonight the team plagued his team all season long. Forest is a team that likes to try long center, Tom Mooney, a right-wing fensive burden have been two travels to Lake Forest, while on "Lake Forest is comprised of a passes as well as sneaking guys in be­sophomore, and Dave' Waldbillig, ·a graduate students, Reilly and Chap­Saturday night the team returns to very young team," said Smith. hind the defense. senior co-captain, who plays left man, and senior co-captain Bob ! : play in the ACC at 7:30p.m. "Because of their youth, they have "If we want to win, our defense wing. Thebeau. Going into the weekend In the two previous games against many of the same problems with in­must not allow Lake Forest players Smith feels that the performance series, Reilly has 3 2 total points on
; ) l' Lake Forest this season, the Irish ( 8-consistency as we have." to attack from behind. The of these two lines will greatly affect 16 goals and 16 assists. Chapman has 13-I ) are undefeated. On November Over the past week the Notre Foresters' rink is smafler than ours, this weekend's series. scored 1 3 goals and added 1 7 assists 21 at the ACC, the Irish skated to a Dame hockey team has spent most so we need quicker reactions on "The top two lines are very impor­for a total of 30 points, while 4-4 tie against the Foresters. Two of its time rearranging defensive defense coupled with precise pas­tant because they carry much ofour Thebeau has I 1 goals and 1 7 assists nights later Notre Dame won its first lines and running offensive position­sing. Defense, though, will be the offensive load," explained Smith. "A 
see HOCKEY ,page 11

road game of the season (previously ing drills in the hope of eliminating key." strong offensive effort by the first 


\' 
! 
I' 
j~' '(
»: 
I J \ 
I j'· 
~ ' 
I . 
I I
; ·'I 

~ ' 
t· ' 
! .)
I. 
Well-coached ND fencers aiming high in '86 
Wayne St. on tap in sole home meet 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame men's fencing team goes up against the team from Wayne State University this Sunday afternoon at the ACC, it will not be just the final match in a· daylong affair that will see both the men's and women's varsity play host to five teams. This match promises to be just a little bit more. 
In the only home meet for the Irish this season, the men will face the team that derailed Notre Dame's quest for a national championship by one touch in the NCAA tournament last year at Wayne State. However, the undefeated Irish (7-0) will not be the only ones looking for revenge, as Wayne State fell victim to the Irish twice last year in the regular season. Also, Notre Dame now sports a two-year domination in the Great Lakes Championships. · 
"We match up about the same, quite frankly," said Irish Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "Wayne State lost one fencer who won the gold medal in epee in the nationals (to gradua­tion), while we lost (two-time all-American) Andy Quaroni and Mike Janis. But they've brought in a German sabre champion and an 
see FENCERS, page 12 
;:,,_,4..,::.;:_:;:~,.,:
.2';:-·:_.::..· 
_:.:~ .r~~~~-:-;;
• 

Two Notre Dame fencers prepare for a match last season. The Irish fencers willhostfive teams on Sunday, including rival Wayne State. Related stories appear at the sides. 
DeCicco is man behind success 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
"Loss" is a foul word to the Notre Dame fen­cing teams. In the 51 years ofits existence, the men's fencing team has enjoyed a winning percentage of .880 while the women have compiled a .726 percentage in 14 years. The 1985 season held true to the tradition with both groups competing in the national cham­pionships while the 1986 team currently stands undefeated. 
The man responsible for this successful program over the past 2 5 years has been head coach Mike DeCicco. A 1949 graduate of Notre Dame, DeCicco compiled an im­pressive 63-20 mark while competing in all three weapons. His 45-4 foil ledger ranks him number-one among Irish foilists. Upon graduation, DeCicco reamained at the Univer­sity to finish his doctorate work and began teaching in the mechanical engineering department. He currently serves as the ath­letic academic counselor. 
"This place is ta _,li • 1n(t i-; really home for me," comment~ 'le ~ewark, N.J native. "I am in love with ,,, .. people and the atmo­
see 1··~ • h co, page 12 




MARY REYNOLDS features writer ­
T 
he snow is here. As whiteness 
quickly covers up the 
landscape, the true character of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
dents is being uncovered, and ski 
areas in the Michiana region are 
helping to define that character. 
People on the campuses 
generally respond to snow in one of 
two ways. There are the winter 
sport enthusiasts, who are thanking 
God gleefully for the bounteous 
whiteness, and then there are those 
who crawl back into the bed, 
praying that the snow is only a bad 
dream which will be all over when 
they wake up. . 
Ifyou fit into the latter category, I have news for you; the snow isn't going to go away, at least not by tomorrow. It might be better just to give up now and join those who already have discovered that frolicking in the snow is one oflife's finer pleasures. 
One ofthe best ways to enjoy snow is by skiing on it. True, the flatlands of Indiana will never be the Rockies, but there are several ski areas within reach ofSouth Bend which are perfect for curing a mild case ofskiing withdraw) or for 
learning how to ski. 

Ski World (formerly Royal Val­
ley) is the area closest to South 
Bend. Located just 12 miles away in 
Buchanan, Michigan, it is perfect for 
a full day or afternoon ofskiing. 
According to junior Todd Har­ding, Ski World is a good place for beginning skiers because the slopes tend to be easier. He says that begtnning skiers can advance gradually to intermediate slopes. Beginning skiers also can take advantage ofSki World's $7 ticket, good on rope td\vs only. 
"Ski World is neat because it's set 
in a valley and you ski around 

trees," Harding says, describing the 
lodge as having "more atmosphere" 
than other places. • 
For more advanced skiers, Har­ding recommends Bittersweet. He says, "Bittersweet has longer runs and there's a little more variety." Bittersweet also has reduced night rates for college students on weekends. 
Swiss Valley is another ski area within an hour ofSouth Bend. Ac­cording to David Immonen, a mem· ber ofthe Notre Dame ski team, "The facilities at Bittersweet are good. They have three chair lifts and lots ofsnow." 
Michigan resorts 
' 

Ski World 20 min. $16 15 (616) 695-384 7 Bittersweet 1Y2 hrs. $15 12 (616) 694-2032 
Swiss Valley 45 min. $16 11 (616) 244-8016 Cannonsberg 2112 hrs. $15 33 (616) 87 4-6711 Caberfae 4 hrs. $15 44 (616) 862-3301 Boyne 6Y2 hrs. $18 16 (616) 549-2441 
~· :d.,.,.;­

"Swiss Valley is good for inter· a large number ofruns serviced by mediate skiers,"John O'Donovan, 1 5 lifts. Ifyou are renting skis, president of the ski team, says. He however, Caberfae is slightly more says that he thinks that it is nice for expensive than other areas. an afternoon, but for more than one An area that O'Donovan recom­day ofskiing it would be better to mends over Caberfae is Can· travel farther up into Michigan. nonsberg, 10 minutes nonh of 
Ifyou're interested in a weekend ski trip, Caberfae, in nonhero Mic­higan, is one option. Caberfae offers see SKI, page 2 

Happenings-page 2 Friday, January 31 , 1986 

Black Cultural Arts·Festival celebrates black expression 
MARYJACOBY 
assistantfeatures editor 

A 
festival? In February? 
But February, with its cold, 

bleak winter days and stagnant 
routine ofwork and study is the 
perfect time for the brightness ofa 
festival. And because February is 
also the designated national black 
awareness month, it has become 
the permanent calendar home for 
Notre Dame's annual celebration of 
the black cultural arts, the Black 
Cultural Arts Festival. 
"Umoja: ASpectrum ofUnity" is 
this year's theme. Umoja is an 
African word meaning unity, and 
with this image Esther Ivory, BCAF 
chairman, said she hopes to convey 
a sense ofthe need for more black 
and white interaction on campus. 
"We're very excited about this year's festival, because it is a chance to promote black culture and arts to the student body, most ofwhom probably are not very familiar with it," Ivory said. "Because it's called the Black Cultural Arts Festival, a lot of the white students think it's not for them. But don't let the 'black' run you away. It's just a celebration for the whole black history month." 
Traditional events for the festival, which Ivory said has been taking place at Notre Dame for "around 17 years," include a gospel choir con­cert, speakers, and fashion and talent shows. 
The festival officially begins Feb. 2 with a performance ofNotre Dame's Voices ofFaith Gospel Ensemble in Washington Hall. 
"Song is a very unifying part of the black race and culture. Histori­cally, during slavery times it was the only accepted way ofprotest or "Boyne has built a reputation as 
one ofthe best ski areas," says 
junior Chris Keller, a skier from 
Michigan. "Boyne is a good place to 

Ski 
continuedfrom page 1 
go for weekends. You can drive up 

Grand Rapids, Mich. Cannonsberg is on Friday and then drive back after 
"a pretty nice area," says a day ofskiing on Sunday," he adds. 
O'Donovan. "Caberf.le is not that Boyne offers several weekend 
much better than Cannonsberg. and packages which include lodging in a 
Cannonsberg is closer," he adds. hotel or condominium, lift tickets, 
Perhaps the best ski area in the lessons, and meals. 
Midwest is Boyne Mountain. Both For more information on snow 
Harding and O'Donovan comment conditions or lodging at any ofthe 
that Boyne has the largest variety of ski areas, Snowline, an area skiing 
slopes catering to a wide range of information service, can be reached 
skills. at (800) 248-5700. 
~******************** 
* ~ @J[,fi'OJ@&f!Uii"I~~ * ~ 
* 1349 PORTAGE AVE. * lt
* 

~ SOUTHBEND ~ 
* ··---•Valuable Coupon•----· 
* 

~ I TWO LARGE PIZZI\5 ~ ~ *1I "Wtth ~·ng.. $9i99 I * 
"'-.. 10 toppings fof only plus tax 1 ""-­
..,.-1 loppjngllnctude peppeoll hom. bacon. g.ound belt. ~ ~ I ~kM~~~~-II ~ 
~ I 'v'alid witt! OOUI)()I'\ at por1ic:jpalio IQ little eo..cn Cony ..,.­
~ :®---~~~: ~ 
* ·------------N.D.U.I * 
*1 nii_....al-II lt
* I -===::-.: o.w....-~.~· I lt
lt I luy..,...OrigiMIItoundPlzuiPIZDI• I *
* 1 wtth this coupon. 1 *
"'-.. Pric~ ~~on siz~ and~ ol I "'-.. ~ 1 toppinss or~cd. YMid with coupon tt ~ ~tins~~-(any Out Qnlv. "'-..
* I 
lxpirn: Feb. 14,1986 I ~

* I *
I

* I (!)~@!m~·~ I *
* 1----•V•IuableCoupon•-N.D.u.l ! 
~******************~ 
celebration. Music also is related 
very strongly to religion," Ivory 
explained. 
In an effort to expose the campus to more unfamiliar aspects ofblack life and culture, Ivory said she deliberately chose lesser known speakers in hope that students may learn things they did not know previously. "Our important func­tion on campus is to introduce prominent black individuals who Notre Dame wouldn't usually invite to speak." Ivory said. There are two speakers set for this.year's festival, Dick Gregory, a combina­tion comedian and social activist, and Brenda Werner, a media con­
snltant 
Dick Gregory began his diverse career in 1960 when he became the first black comic to work in the top white night clubs in St. Louis. As his fame as a comedian spread, Gregory became interested in the growing social movement, and, inspired by Ghandi, began fasting to protest social injustice and other causes such as the Vietnam War. 
As a comedian, Gregory weighed at times over 300 pounds. But his fasting technique in the '60s and a new awareness of the importance of health helped transform his figure to his present leanness. His interest in diet and nutrition has lead to his becoming an expert in the field, and Gregory also has written a best selling book on the subject titled "Cooking With Mother Nature." 
Gregory can also claim the roles ofactor, philosopher, political analyst and lecturer, making him "an ideal choice" for the BCAF. "Dick Gregory is a serious speaker, but he's also fun," Ivory said. 

Werner is a professional lecturer 
from Chicago who will be speaking 
on the topic of"Media fmages of 
Black and White Women." A 
graduate ofHarvard, Werner spe­
cializes in subjects relevant to 
blacks in America today. "She will 
heighten our awareness on how we 
incorporate media images into 
reality," Ivory said. 
Another traditional BCAF event is 
the talent show, which is intended 
as a showcase for both black and 
white talent on campus. In the past 
comedy, musical and dramatic acts 
have been included in the show. 
Perhaps the most popular event ofthe festival, the fashion show marks the culmination ofthe month's celebrations. Tryouts were held Tuesday and Thursday to choose student models for the show. 
"Area stores provide the clothing, and judges come from off-campus from various professions connected with the fashion world to choose the models," Ivory said. 
The theme for this year's fashion show is "Fashion Express: Ajourney Through Time." 
Gregory will speak Feb. 10 and Werner will appear Feb. 17, both in the Memorial Library auditorium. The talent show is Feb. 1S in the library auditorium. The fashion show will take place March 1 in the Moi\Ogram Room of the ACC. 
Dick Gregory will be one ofthefeatured speakersfor the Black Cultural Arts Festival, which begins Sunday with a gospel choir concert. Gregory will speak Feb. 10 in the library auditorium. 
presents ... 
of 





Saturday, February 1 9:30-1:30 
Ifyou thought the Music King was great. • • Wait until you hear this! 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 


Happenings-page 3 Friday, January 31, 1986 

Music 


• 
The South Bend Symphony Or­chestra will present the final concert of its premiere season this Sunday at O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Kenneth Kiesler, music director and conductor, will lead the orchestra through the program featuring Con­certmaster and violinist Laura Klugherz. The concert will feature Mozart's "Violin Concerto No.5" and "Symphony No. 39" as well as Aaron Copland's "Appalachian Spring · Suite from the Ballet" and Maurice Ravel's "Tzigane." Immediately preceding the show, Kiesler will continue his popular pre-concert series, Concert Comments. These discussions provide insight into the behind-the-scenes opera­tions ofthe orchestra and its music. Admission to the 4 p.m. show is S9 for students. 

• 
The "Heartlands America Tour" featuring the Interlochen Arts Academy Orchestra will perform Sunday at 7:30 


p.m. at St. joseph's High School. Composed of97 high school students from 28 states and seven foreign countries, the orchestra ha~ earned na­tional acclaim with concerts at Carnegie Hall, Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C., and Chicago's Orchestra Hall. Priding itself on a repertoire equal to those of many major symphony or­chestras, the Academy Orchestra chooses its programs carefully to appeal to the widest possible audience. Tickets to the performance are S3 for adults and S1.50 
Only genuine sci-fi lovers will enjoy 'Enemy Mine' 
Davidge goes in search of his adversary.
P.A.CIMINO 
When the two finally meet, they found a 
features writer 

T 
relationship which begins with a life and he phenomenal success of"Star Wars" death struggle and develops out of necessity and its sequels proved without a shadow and similarity. of a doubt that science fiction films can be From a purely critical point ofview, the very profitable. Film-makers have been eager movie has some merits worth mentioning. to find sci-fi vehicles ofequal or better Dennis Quaid does a good job with a very quality and drawing power ever since. difficult character. Davidge is an impulsive, 
As such, the public regularly is inundated inconsistent sort who gets himselfinto with new science fiction "films proclaiming to trouble repeatedly by refusing to plan for be better than any oftheir predecessors but every possibility. which actually are no more than intelligence­Although Quaid often overplays his charac­insulting garbage. With this in mind, I and my ter's emotions, Davidge becomes likable for popcorn calmly sat down to view Twentieth both his loyalty and his humor. Quaid seems right at home when showing off Davidge's humorous abilities, and in this respect he is convincing. Unfortunately Davidge is put into positions which more often than not detract from his believability. 

Louis Gossett,Jr. plays]eriba Shigan, the Century Fox's newest attempt at other­Draconian enemy, a reptilian creature 
-

worldly success in the form of"Enemy complete with a vestigial tail. His speech is Mine." inundated with gurglish sounds reminiscent 
Starring Dennis Quaid ("Breaking Away," ofPopeye at the bottom ofthe sea. When the "The Right Stuff') and Louis Gossett, Jr., who audience finally is able to overlook Shigan's won an Oscar for his performance as the inhuman form, he becomes both likable and tough-as-nails drill instructor, Sgt. Foley, in convincing. Gossett is able to create an alien "An Officer and a Gentleman," "Enemy Mine" character to which a purely human viewer boasts a strong cast with the potential to can relate. Needless to say, his performance make film history. Director Wolfgang Peter­is both valiant and commendable as he fights son is also well known as a previous Oscar a choppy script, makeup which makes nominee for the film "Das Boot." Now, if expression all but impossible, and garbled these ingredients were the only ones needed speech. to cook up a great feature-length film, Ibe only other pluses go to the makeup "Enemy Mine" would be one Ofthe chefs work, which is very elaborate, and the special specials. effects, which were produced at Industrial 
Unfortunately, the plot and story are also Ught and Magic, the company resi'f}nsible for somewhat important, and although the the effects in the three "Star Wars" films and screenplay is based on a prize-winning both "Indianajones" adventures. novella. it contains some flaws which cannot Aside from the already mentioned faulty be ignored. script and character development, note on 
The movie opens in outer space (some the minus side must be made of the poor distant star system, 100 years in the future) lighting (much ofthe film's action occurs in with a dogfigpt between a squadron of minimal light) and the inferior landscape. earthmen and their long-time foes, the The production of"Enemy Mine" included Draconians, from the planet Draco, ofcourse. 10 days shooting in the Canary Islands with After one ofhis fellow pilots is killed by a the bulk offilming done in a studio in Ger­Drac, Davidge (Quaid) is so overcome with many, and the sets look extremely fake and grief that he forfeits his own ship to get ineffective. As a final killing blow, the revenge. production and editing are just as choppy as 
In trying to destroy the enemy craft, he the script. By film's end I was definitely follows the Drac into the atmosphere of wondering whether the last quarter ofthe Fyrine IV, an unexplored planet over which movie was cut to satisfy some time require­they just happen to be flying. He succeeds in ment, and needless to say, the ending left me hitting the opposing tighter. However, the unsatisfied. Drac ejects and Davidge and his co-pilot are In spite ofits numerous shortcomings, true forced to make a crash landing. sci-fi story lovers may actually like this film. 
As if things were not bad enough, the In any event, "Enemy Mine" is just another co-pilot is mortally wounded in the ensuing worthless space adventure to play on the crash, and the ship is destroyed. Stranded on wallets ofthose with cash to spare, and it a potentially hostile planet with seemingly could never compare to "Star Wars." Save nothing left to live for except revenge, your money and buy a book. 
The Scoop 
Movies 
• The Student Activities Board hosts "Rambo: First Blood Part Two" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Sylvester Stallone stars as Rambo, the indestructible one-man army bent on revenge in this sequel to "First Blood." Recruited by his former com­manding officer (Richard Crenna), Rambo returns to the jungles ofVietnam to track down American POWs still missing in action. Admission to the 7, 9 and 11 p.m. shows is S1.50. 
Art 


• "Artists and Models: Portraits from the Hlnhhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden," a collection of 35 watercolors, prints, drawings and photographs opens on Sunday in the Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery at the Snite Museum ofArt. Touring nationally under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service, the show is comprised ofworks selected by Frank Gettings, curator ofprints and drawings at 

Music 
• The SAB presents "Living the Rock and Roll Dream" tomorrow night at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. This one-man three-act play traces the life ofa rock star from rebellious youth to mellow old age. Featuring a rock soundtrack, the show appeals to both music and theater lovers. Tickets are S3 and available at the door. 
• The Elkhart Civic Theater presents "Harvey," a family comedy, at the Bristol Opera House tonight and tomorrow night at 8:15 p.m. Admission is S6. 
Mass 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Daniel jenky at 5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil). Father Oliver Williams at 9 a.m. 



the Smithsonian's Hirshhorn Museum and 
Father Danieljenky at 10:30 a.m. and 

Sculpture Garden in Washington. Charac­
12:15 p.m.
• The department ofcommunications 

terized by a quality of intimacy, the 34 
and theater presents "Paullne at the 

portraits on display reveal keen psyc· ­
The schedule for confessions in Sacred
Beach" tonight at the Annenberg 

hological insight and explore the unique 
Heart Church is:
Auditorium. Directed by Frenchman Eric 

relationship of artist to sitter. The show 
Monday through Saturday at 11: 1 5 a.m.
Rohmer, this film features the romantic 

includes the works of Milton Avery, 
Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. 
entanglements ofan eccentric group of 

Thomas Benton, Thomas Eakins, Alberto 
Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
vacationers. The vibrant cinematography 

Giacometti, David Hockney, Lotte jacobi,
ofOscar-winning Nestor Almendros 

David Levine, Alice Neei,John Sargent, 
Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt.
enhances this comedy ofconfusion that 

Alfred Stieglitz and others. The museum is 
delivers touching insight into the ever­

open Tuesday through Friday 10 a.m. to 4 
Vespers will be held Sundays at 7: 1 5 
conflicting workings of the mind and the 

p.m., Saturday and Sunday 1 to 4 p.m., and 
p.m. in the Lady Chapel.
heart. Tickets to the 7:30 and 9:30p.m. 

Thursday evenings 4 to 8 p.m. Admission 
The rosary is said daily at 6:45 p.m. at 
shows are 11.50. 
is free. 
the Grotto. 
... 


~------------------------­
Happenings-page 4 Friday, January 31, 1986 
Subtle style makes tavern relaxing change of pace 
KEirn HARRISONJR. 
and LARRY BURKE 
features writers 
I 
fyou're tired offighting for 
breathing room and yelling over 
the din at the local student watering 
holes, then Albert's Tavern might 
be your kind ofplace. 
The Bar Beat 
;:-·;~· 
-" Albert's Tavern ~L~0 * * *(out of •our) 
Less than a 10-minute drive from campus, Albert's has no cover charge. no flashing disco lights and no hordes ofscreaming drunks. It's just a good place to go for a low-key evening offood, drink and con­versation. 
Although Albert's has never been a big hangout for Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students, it tradition­ally has lured a loyal following away from the usual dives and dance clubs. Fridays and Saturdays are the big nights for students, while locals make up most ofthe crowd during the remainder ofthe week. 
The decor at Albert's is rust,ic and 
simple. There are few decorations 
on the paneled walls, aside from 
several items ofNotre Dame 
memorabilia, and soft lighting adds 
to the relaxing atmosphere. There 
are plenty oftables and booths in 
the main barroom and in the at­
tached dining room to comfortably 
accomodate large groups. 
Albert's offers a full selection of beer, wine and cocktails, and the prices are fairly inexpensive. Carry­outs are available. 
The dinner menu is surprisingly diverse. Most ofthe platters are seafood items, including lobster, catfish and frog legs. The house specialty is Hungarian goulash, although hamburgers and fries are available for the faint-hearted. 
Prices for the platters are in the $7 to $12 range. Most sandwiches cost less than S5. 

As far as entertainment goes, Albert's is no Studio 54. Bands do not play there, and there is no dance floor. A pool table, a color television and a jukebox featuring some decent country tunes and the usual pop schlock are the only frills Albert's offers. 
But what Albe~'s lacks in high­tech excitement, it makes up for in hospitality. The waitresses are quick with a smile, and Albert him­selfis often behind the bar, offering his opinions on world and national affairs to all who will listen. 
Albert's is open Monday through Saturday from 11 a.m. to 3 a.m. Dinner platters are available until 11 p.m., while sandwiches and other snacks are served until 12:30 a.m. 
To get to Albert's, go south on 

U.S. 31 to LaSalle. Turn right and continue for a block and a half, then bear right onto Uncoln Way West. Albert's is located on the right, at 501 Lincoln Way West. Parking is available in the vacant lot next door. 
Realistic tale of hockey life carries 'Youngblqod' to success 

~ ~/Kdcb HaniaoaJr. 
Above: A student shoots pool in the barroom ofAlbert's Tavern,· Below: Albert, the owner ofAlbert's Tavern, rests on the bar. 


Thr ~/Keith Hamton}r. 
i\ ,. MID-WINTER PARTY ·iAR ' _ Sat. Feb. 2 Starting 10:30 p.m.
o·s·­
~ 
~ ;-; . $3.00 pitchers & F~<f1 ~ 50~ Kamakasl shots 
Sponsor a party for your group, hall, orclass at Mr. D's. Callforarrangemen!s, 233-7747 
1516 N.lronwood Open Sunday 3:00pm -12:30 am. 
Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 


·Oriental Express 
Carry Out Dining Room 
272-6702 e' ~\e 
6329 University Commons ~0 Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~~ on State Road 23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. 8t Weds. 1 07.off with dining room coupon only 

r----------------------------~ 

52929 u.s.3i Pbth 
~ 
..........._................. 
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza forSmall Pizza Price (Delivery Orders Only) After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only (Limited Delivery Area) 
Offer expires Feb. 8 
277-5880 

L----------------------------~ 
MARK NEMEC 
features writer 
0 
ver the Christmas break, I had the chance to catch a sneak-peek ofRob Lowe's new movie "Youngblood" at an ad-

Rob Lowe plays Dean Youngblood, a 17-year-old farmer's son who has an ex­traordinary talent for hockey. In an effort to pursue this talent, he tells his father that he wants to leave the farm and try out for the Mustangs, a semi-pro team across the border in Canada. 
The Mustangs have one spot open for the rest ofthe season and need someone to fill it. Dean already has stars in his eyes as he sees himself moving through the ranks and playing pro someday. Kelly, Dean's brother, has al­ready tried to grasp this dream but failed. However, he backs Dean all the way, and, after some pt:rsuasive words with their father, drives Dean across the border to the rink. 
During the trip, Kelly tries to warn Dean that some Canadian players play tough and dirty. However, Dean doesn't pay much attention to his brother's words, thinking he can outskate anyone on the ice. This is where the problems start. Although Dean is an excellent and stylish player, he has never learned how to fight. And playing in this semi­pro league is like playing in a league without rules, as Dean finds out in the first and only tryout. 
He comes into some heavy contact with a guy named Racki (Ed Lauter) and, albeit illegally, gets his head spun around. Dean, however, is chosen over Racki and the others for the one open spot on the team. (There would not be much ofa movie ifhe wasn't chosen, now would there?) 
Dean then meets Derek Sutton (Patrick Swayze) and the rest of the team in a unique initiation. He also runs into the coach's daughter (Cynthia Gibb) and ­you guessed it -they fall for each other. Awhole new set of problems arise because the coach (Craig T. Nelson) does not take a liking to players dating his daughter. 
The major disappointment in this movie is the love interest. The concept ofdating the daughter ofthe man in charge is quite old and quite predictable. The relationship between her and Dean is never given any true substance, except lust, and really isn't needed. 

The rest ofthe movie, however, is pure entertainment. There is at least 20 solid minutes ofexcellently-filmed hockey action. Director Peter Markle has done a superb job with regular and slow-motion photog­raphy. All the skating scenes were done by the actors them­selves which also makes the film seem more realistic. Markle also knows when to take the camera off the ice. He presents the lives of these athletes authentically, capturing their desire to be the best. 
And don't worry, ladies. Even ifyou don't like hockey, you might find this movie interesting because Lowe presents some interesting views ofhimself. All in all, "Youngblood" is a fast­action, well-photographed movie that is quite entertaining. 
English Dept. Presents 
Marion Brando & Vivian Leigh 1n Tennessee Williams' 
A Streetcar Named Desire 
Sunday, Feb. 2 

Engineering Auditorium 7 pm & 9:20 pm S1 donot1on 
NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
• 

South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 7 nights a week DRINKING and DANCING 9:00 pm -3:00 am 
Located on U.S. 33 N. at North Village Mall 
277-1877 


Irish face four tough games in only eight days 

Syracuse~ Dwayne "Pearl" Washington 

Marquette February 1 3p.m. 
ACC 
Maryland February3 7:30p.m . 
ACC 
Dayton February5 7:30p.m. UDArena 
Syracuse February8 4p.m. Carrier Dome 
Keeping the fun in sports 
Former Irish star Hanzlik sticks in Nl3A with desire 





By MIKE PREVITE 
Observer Special Writer 
.orne people would say the fun has gone outSof professional sports. For former Notre 
Dame basketball star Bill Hanzlik, the fun is 
sports. 
Hanzlik enjoys what he does as a member of the NBA's Denver Nuggets. In his eyes, basket­ball remains a game first and a business second. He does a wide variety of charity work in the Denver area, and following one practice last month he could be seen taping a spot for a local television station's "Share the Spirit" Christmas campaign. 
"That's what it's really all about," Hanzlik says. "I like the people I've met here and I think it's a two-fold thing: we help them, but they help us, too, by making us feel good inside." 
You might say that family is Hanzlik's number_. one hobby. He and wife Maribeth, like him a 1980 Notre Dame grad, recently became parents again with the birth of their second daughter. In fact, family life may help Hanzlik make a career decision in the near future. 
"Financially, I'd like to play about two more years," he says. "After that, I'd like to assess the whole picture: how much I'm away from my family, if I'm with a good, contending team, those types ofthings." 
Right now Hanzlik is carrying the highest scoring average ( 12 points per game through 43 games) in his six-year career and he is the 
; • ~~ ... • -'f .:;;.••. 

most versatile cog in Coach Doug Moe's array of no-names that became last year's Midwest Division champions. 
Denver is a tough team, one that easily could pass for a group of railroad men or coal miners. And because of his consistently scrappy style of play, Hanzlik fits in perfectly with the personality ofthe Nuggets. 
Hanzlik did not get his start in the NBA with Denver, however. Seattle made him its top draft choice in 1980, hoping he would be the perfect backcourt mate to the high-scoring Gus Williams. But a weird turn ofevents in the summer of 1982 made Hanzlik the Nuggets' gain and the Supersonics' loss. 
"The original trade was David Thompson to Seattle for Wally Walker and a number-one pick," Hanzlik recalls, "but when Walker balked at the deal I was one of three players Denver could choose from to complete the trade. The Nuggets picked me, and when I told (then-Seattle) Coach Lenny Wilkins about it as he was coming back from a China vacation, he almost passed out." 
The career move just may have been the best thing that could have happened to Hanzlik. Al­though he does not have the moves of the Lakers' Magic johnson or the shooting touch of teammate Alex English, what he does have cannot be measured by simply looking at a stat sheet. 
Desire. 
Guts. 

That never-say-die attitude has allowed the 6­7 Hanzlik to find a niche in the NBA, earning the respect ofhis teammates and opponents in the process. 
"Hanzlik will always have a place in the NBA," says Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps. "He can guard a guard, or he can move up and guard a forward. He has a great sense offloor balance, and he handles the ball well for a guy his size. 
"A lot of what he's done in the NBA has been on hustle, and lately on confidence as he's realized what he can do. 
"Probably the biggest thing he doesfor a team, though," Phelps continues, "is"the chemistry he adds to get the most out ofeveryone else. He did it here for us in '78, when we were so successful. He just does so many things on and offthe court to help you." 
Nuggets TV broadcaster AI Albert may have summed up Hanzlik's play best when he said, "Bill Hanzlik plays the game as if he were inside a blender." 
On defense, Hanzlik often is asked to guard the other team's scoring forward, be it Mark Aguirre, Adrian Dantley or (gasp) Ralph Sampson, all 7-4 ofhim. These are players who expect to score their 30 points every game. 
But the former Irish co-captain refuses to con­cede. He is like the gnat who won't leave your 
see HANZLIK, Extra page 4 



• 
--
• 
-



--~-------~--~-­
Irish Extra -page 4 
-I
Irish have tough 
1 
month in store I 
Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 
H 
ello again everybody! 
1 
We have made it through january. We have seen winter rear its ugly I head. We have seen Herb rear his ugly head. We have seen a chair I taken out by Bob Knight, and a Refrigerator take out an entire team. We have survived all this to make it to February -no small ac-1 complishment in itself. : 
Making it through February won't be any easier, though. 
February usually is nothing to arouse any excitement. It is the shonest month, and it is also the most boring month. January had all the ~ajor college bowls, the pro football playoffs, the Super Bowl and several matchups between top-ten basketball teams. Highlights ofFebruary are the Pro Bowl, World Cup Bobsledding, the U.S. Open Darts Championship and watching the car rust. 
This February is different, however, at least as far as the Notre Dame basketball team is concerned. February is a critical month for Digger Phelps and company. Gone are the days of St. Joseph's and Valpo. Wave goodbye to Butler and Hofstra. The patsies are virtually gone, and all that is left is a powerful schedule, which may serve as an indicator of how far this team can go in the NCAA tournament in March. 
Read the list ofteams that start the month, and itlooks like the begin­ning of the NCAA field of 64. First comes Marquette, followed by Maryland, Dayton and Syracuse. Duke appears on the 16th, followed by DePaul on the 25th. The appearance of Fordham, Manhattan and Miami are merely respites between the wars. 
I And wars they shall be. Forget about the finesse ofa Carolina or Utah 
I
from last week. The rest of the Irish schedule is going to have not­
I 
hing but pushing and shoving underneath the basket. If Carolina thought Sunday's game was physical, wait until they watch tomor­I row's game with Marquette. It will make "Rocky IV'' look like "Bambi". 
ll, 
1be physical play will add a little extra to the test ahead of the Irish, who play four major opponents in eight days. lbat's tough on any I college team, but it is exactly like the NCAA tournament, which asks 1 you to play two ofthe alleged top teams in the country in the span of 1 1 48 hours. This kind of scheduling may sound ludicrous now, but it , could pay off come tourney time. 
II 
Of course, it puts a tremendous burden on the players. First of all, they must regroup physically after each contest, which can be tough I after exchanging forearms and rear ends with Tom Copa or Len Bias I for two hours. What may be tougher, however, is trying to get j psyched up emotionally for four big games in a row. Adrenaline is a , great power source, but how longcan a player maintain his intensity and his concentration level? Hopefully, for at least eight days. 
While much ofNotre Dame's success will rest with the players, some emphasis has to go on the coaching staff as well. Digger knows what if takes to prepare a team for such a schedule, thanks to his ex­perience of 13 post-season tournaments. Still, preparing strategy for four games in eight days v.ill put a lot ofpressure on Phelps and his staff. The first floor ofthe ACC may not be the most pleasant place to be this week, especially if your name is jim Baron, Gary Brokaw or Matt Kilcullen, Digger's a~istant coaches. 
These are the things Notre Dame must do, though, if it is truly bent on making "Destination Dallas." It will be a lot better for the team to go through this grueling experience now and maybe lose a couple of games than to have it happen in March, when losing is an unfor­givable sin. 
Four games in eight days make for the beginnings of a "Frightening February". On the other hand, it could set the groundwork for a "Marvelous March." 
Pick ofthe Week. . You may see all the sports you'll want to see in February this weekend at the ACC, as Notre Dame has lined up a veritable spons festival. 
Get out the shon sleeves and tank tops today for an afternoon at the pool, as the men's and women's swim teams dive into action against Oral Roberts and St. Bonaventure at the beautiful Rolfs Aquatic Center beginning at 4. 
While you can't spend the night, you'll want to come out early Satur­day morning to get a good seat for the Midwestern Collegiate Con­ference track meet on the repainted track of the ACC fieldhouse. Notre Dame's sprint to its fourth consecutive league title begins at noon. 
1be weekend ends with Notre Dame's only home fencing match of the year, as the Irish host five teams, including defending national champion Wayne State. Be on guard when the sabres begin to rattle at 9 a.m. in the fieldhouse. 
Admission for all events is free. , 
Friday, January 31, 1986 


Hanzlik 
continuedfrom Extra page 1 
front porch on a summer night · always tena­cious, always intense. Opposing players rarely are able to find a kind word for him. 
One word might best describe Hanzlik's style ofplay: unselfish. 
"I like to make things happen for the team," Hanzlik says. "A turnover, a steal, whatever it takes. It's an ND philosophy, I guess. 
"Team things make it more fun. Maybe one can be happy if you score points, but if the team doesn't do well, it's drudgery." 
Even with all the success he's enjoyea, Hanzlik still holds a special fondness for his alma mater and keeps in touch with former Notre Dame teammates John Paxson, Bill Laimbeer, Kelly Tripucka and Orlando Wool­ridge (all in the NBA) through NO grad Ed O'Rourke, a retired Chicago lawyer. 
"He's the guy who ties this thing together and tells us how each other is doing," Hanzlik says ofO'Rourke. 
In a league where prima donnas and drug rehabilitation cases are oft publicized, Hanzlik stands as a refreshing breeze ofsomeone who is down to eanh. 
"When you go through all the material things in life, you find that only two things matter · your family and your health," Hanzlik says. 
Believable? 
You bet. 
(MikePrevtte·tsa 1980MBAgrad, who wrote

Hanzlik in his days as Irish co-captain 
sportsfor The Observer in 1979 and '80). 

Newest Irish assistant 


Kilcullen rises in coaching ranks 
games in the six previous years, Kil­face, and I assist in practice like the
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN 
cullen was able to lead his teams to a others. I'm allowed to scout other
Assistant Sports Editor 
cumulative 28-47 record in his three teams on our schedule, but I can't seasons. His final team tied the recruit off-campus."
W 
hen former assistant basket­school record for wins with a 14-13
ball coach Pete Gillen left Notre Dame to become the head mark in the '81-'82 Seaspn, while While here, Kilcullen has been finishing third in the country in impressed with many aspects of
coach at Xavier University last Notre and
August, Irish head coach Digger field-goal percentage. Dame the basketball program.
Phelps knew just the man he wanted to round out his three-person staffof From there, Kilcullen journeyed to Siena in Loudonville, N.Y., where the ''I'm very impressed with the or­
assistants. Indians finished 49-36 in his three ganization of Coach Phelps and his "Matt Kilcullen was the first choice seasons as assistant. And, in August, assistants," he says. "Coach Phelps 
for the third assistant job," says the job offer he hoped would come covers every detail and expects his Phelps. "He's been coming to help at along finally did. assistants to do the same. I thought there might be a tendency with so
summer camps here at Notre Dame •·for the past 10 straight summers, much talent to say 'let the talent take 
for 10 years, and I knew he'd do a I've been comingout here to work at care of itself.' But that's not the way
good job." camp," says Kilcullen. "And I saw, it is. EverYthing is organized and 
Kilcullen left his assistant coaching like most people do when they taught well. position at Siena College to join the come out here, that it's a special Irish coaching staff, an oppununity place. There are a lot of people all "I've also been impressed with the 
over the world that would like to idea of family among the team. I like
he says he jumped at. come to Notre Dame to go to school to see Coach Phelps taking a per­not
"I still remember the morning I got here or to work here. sonal interest in the players, caring about basketball only. The
the job," says Kilcullen. "I had been promoted, as they say, to associate "It's something I've always wanted quality ofthe kids I'm coaching is ex­
head coach at Siena early in the sum­to do, and I'd let Coach Phelps know ceptional. They work hard and they've got great character. It's a lot
mer, and early in August I was of­of fun."
fered the assistant coach's job at Rutgers. But this was an oppununity Kilcullen also feels his past coaching
I couldn't pass up. I've wanted to experience, especially his stint as a
come to Notre Dame for a long head coach, have helped him in his 
time." new job. 
Although only 31 years of age, Kil­"I made the decisions when I was
cullen came to Notre Dame with a head coach at Castleton State," says 
very impressive list of basketball Kilcullen, "but here I make sugges­
credentials. A native of the Bronx, tions. Sometimes they go through
N.Y., Kilcullen played his college and sometimes they don't. That's
basketball at Herben H. Lehman College in the Bronx, graduating in i·l part of being an assistant. But I'm 
1976 with an undergraduate degree Matt Kilcullen given a lot of responsibility here in in physical education. that I wouid love to be considered different areas, and having been a for a spot here if anything ever head coach cenainly helps out 
there.

While there, his team won two city opened up." university chmapionship, and Kil­
"The scope ofthis job is much wider

cullen captained the squad as a Kilcullen fills the part-time position than that ofany job I've held before,
senior and earned the team MVP on Phelps' staff (the NCAA only al­award. lows two full-time assistants), with with the huge crowds and national the major distinction being that he is television. And that makes the job a little that
Within three years, he was named as­not allowed to go on the road to different, one involves 
more responsibilities."

sistant at Delaware Valley College in recruit. 
Doylestown, Pa., and after one year there he became head coach at "I'm involved in the academics a "Matt has the knowledge, the per­Castleton State College in Castleton, lot," says Kilcullen, "like making sonality and the ability to become an Vt., a Division Ill school. sure the players are seeing their , excellent head coach," says Phelps. 
tutors and are keeping up with their "We are very fonunate to have him Given the responsibility of revitaliz-work. I'm in charge of tape and film here as an assistant. He'll be an asset 

J ing a program that had won only 23 exchange ~th the teams we w~... fQr us~u!'t~S-~~!.~!lure, here." __ t[•i'":iti•h·~•itiiiW·ilil~ill«:;"·>w-.~~K-... ...,.;\,~>J-......·~~~:w:-'ll~.~ ·--.. ~--~ ~,. cr~·:O!'US<;.~. 






