Maestro -page 5 


Nighty-night 
and Kristen Shepeck (front to back) provide Kevin An Tostal tucker-inners Patty Ferrick, Karen Ruff Ruedy with some TLC at Keenan Hall last night. 

SMC Board plans Fun in the Sun 
By KATIE SULLIVAN Haggar are being considered, ac­Mom's Weekend will be held April 
News Staff cording to DiDonato. 2-4. 
Saint Mary's Programming Board Senior Father-Daughter weekend The recently formed sophomore members reported their plans of will be held Oct. 3-5, and a Senior board has planned a picnic with events for next year and the re­dinner dance is planned for Nov. 21 Notre Dame's sophomore class for mainder of this year at last night's at Knollwood Country Club, accor­this May 2, according to meeting. ding to Maureen Erny, senior class Sophomore Class President Annie 
Haggar Center Commissioner vice president. Buch. Chris DiDonatosaid her immediate Entertainment Commissioner plans include Fun in the Sun, She said the Senior Class Board is Eunice Tornetta said she is plann­scheti'Uled for May 4 from I to 4 also currently planning for next ing a fall band contest similar to 
p.m. year's Senior Disorientation Week. Notre Dame's Spring Nazz Contest. 
She also related her plans to direct Junior Class Vice President Jill "It will be a great way for students students to Haggar Center during Winterhalter said she has begun to be aware and informed of other their free time next year. Access to planning for Junior Welcome Back MTV videos and slide shows at Week and announced that Junior See BOARD, page 4 
Group killed kidnapped Briton in retaliation against U.S. raids 
Auociated Preu Beirut newspaper An-Nahar. The The body tentatively identified as 
accompanying typewritten state­Collett's last week proved to be that BEIRUT, Lebanon -A terrorist ment in Arabic said Collett was of Peter Kilburn, 62, an American group said yesterday it had killed a "executed" April 16 in retaliation who was working as a librarian at kidnapped Briton in retaliation for for Britain's complicity in the U.S. the American University of Beirut the U.S. air raids on Libya and urg­air attacks on Tripoli and Benghazi when he disappeared Dec. 3, 1984. ed other factions holding British the day before. The two Britons -Leigh Douglas, or American hostages to do the Bodies of two Britons and an 34, and Philip Padfield, 40 -were same. American were found last week teachers who were _kidnapped 
A videotape accompanying the outside Beirut, and one of them in­March28. statement showed a man with a itially was identified as Collett. A Their murders were claimed by black mask over his eyes, said to be statement from their killers said the the Arab Revolutionary Cells, 64-year-old Alec Collett, dangling three were slain in revenge for the another group believed linked to from a scaffold while a crowd raids on Libya and Britain's sup­renegade Abu Nidal, whom the chanted slogans against "American port of the U.S. action. Reagan administration says is sup­and British arrogance." A voice heard on the videotape ported and harbored by Libya. 
Collett, a British journalist on a said in Arabic that Collett was The Revolutionary Organization 
U.N. assignment, was abducted hanged at a mass rally, but it did of Socialist Moslems made a claim March 25, 1985, in south Lebanon. not say where, and the actual to An-Nahar last Thursday that it The body shown in the videotape hanging was not shown. had killed Collett and promised to bore a strong resemblance to The terrorist statement urged all provide photographs of his hanging photographs of him released by the other factions holding American or later. United Nations after his abduction. British hostages to "execute them Collett was on a writing assign­
The Revolutionary Organization because the blood of Americans ment for the U.N. Relief and of Socialist Moslems, believed link­and Britons is now permissible as a Works Agency, which serves ed to renegade Palestinian leader result of the criminal acts exercised Palestinian refugees. His death Abu Nidal, provided the four­by murderer Reagan and criminal minute tape to the independent Thatcher." See BRITON, page 3 
Apartheid reforms include scrapping laws says white government 
Associated Press from living or working in white 
areas, was halted yesterday, and 
JOHANNESBURG, South the government began releasing 
Africa-The white government for­prisoners jailed on past offenses. 
mally announced yesterday that it The government said a maximum 
will make the most sweeping of 245 prisoners were affected by 
reform in generations of apartheid the move. 
by scrapping dozens of Jaws that Millions of blacks have been ar­
restrict the movements of blacks. rested under the pass laws. 
But it said blacks will still not be A policy statement submitted to 
permitted to live in white residen­Parliament in Cape Town describ­
tial areas. ed the laws as""''a relic of the past." 
Anti-apartheid leaders complain­It said the system, called influx 
ed that the reforms, while welcome, control, would be replaced by 
do not address the demands of "planned, positive urbanization" 
South Africa's 24 million voteless involving a uniform identity docu­
blacks for a share of political ment for all races. 
power. Under the reforms, blacks will be 
In another action, Justice free to move from one city or town 
Minister Kobie Coetsee announced to another seeking work but will be 
yesterday that the sentences of at allowed to live only in authorized 
least 20,000 prisoners will be reduc­residential areas, not with the coun­
ed by six months in a general try's five million whites. 
amnesty to be declared May 31. Anglican Bishop Desmond Tutu, 
He said the amnesty, to coincide one of the country's best-known 
with the 25th anniversary of the black leaders, cautioned blacks to 
establishment of the Republic of "be aware of the small print" in the 
South Africa, will not apply to peo­government policy statement. 
ple imprisoned for offenses related "Some form of influx control 
to racial unrest, robbery, rape or may be brought in through the back· 
assault. door," said Tutu, who won the 
A total of 34 Jaws and proclama­1984 Nobel Peace Prize and has 
tions, some dating back 60 years, just been elected archbishop of 
will be repealed when Parliament, CapeTown. 
dominated by the government's Na­Murphy Morobe, a spokesman 
tional Party, enacts the proposed for the anti-apartheid United 
legislation. Democratic Front coalition, ques-
Enforcement of the "pass laws," 
which bar blacks without permits See APARTHEID, page 3 
U.S. action in Europe predicted by official 
"For this reason, we want to
Associated Press 
make the public opinion aware of this campaign which is staged byTRIPOLI, Libya -A Libyan of­Mossad and American in­ficial claimed yesterday the United telligence," he said. 
States and Israel are planning ter­When asked what sort of attacks 
rorist actions in Europe that will be 
were planned, Sharafeddin replied: blamed on Moammar Khadafy's "Operations similar to the West government as a pretext for future Berlin nightclub bombing." 
military attacks on Libya. An American sergeant and a 
The information came from in­Turkish woman were killed in the 
telligence sources in "friendly nightclub bombing April5, and 230 
states, including European coun­people were injured, 63 of them 
tries," Information Minister Americans. The United States says 
Mohammed Sharafeddin told the attack on the La Belle disco, a 
reporters. He gave no further in­haunt of American soldiers, was 
dication of his sources. planned by Libya. 
Sharafeddin said the attacks Sharafeddin was asked how 
would happen "within the next many attacks there would be and 
hours," an Arabic phrase that replied: "You may ask Mossad and 
means "in the near future." American intelligence. They know 
"This information stresses that the number." 
Mossad (Israeli intelligence), Earlier yesterday evening, the in­
together with American in­formation minister told foreign telligence, want to conduct opera­journalists they must leave the tions in Europe, and they want to country by the end of the week. put the responsibility upon the About 250 foreigners were ad­Jamahiriya (Libya)," Sharafeddin mitted to the North African coun­said. try after the U.S. air raids April 15 
In Washington, White House on Tripoli and Benghazi. They 
spokesman Larry Speaks said, "the were kept in one hotel, taken on CIA is not causing terrorist in­carefully guided tours and shown cidents in Europe." what Khadafy wanted them to see. 
The Libyan minister said the "Your miSSIOn is over," alleged plot's objectives were "to Sharafeddin told the journalists. create a Jack of confidence in the He said no more tours were European public opinion which is scheduled and the government sympathetic with the Jamahiriya, needs the hotel space. especially after the barbaric He denied statements by other American aggression . . . and to officials that the expulsions were create and find a justification for ordered in retaliation for actions by aggression, especially after the Western governments against failure of the first aggression." Libya. 

The Observer 
Drunken driving charges will not be pressed against U.S. Sen. Robert Kasten Jr., R-Wis., according to police. As a first offender, Kasten was eligible for the District of Colum­bia's alcohol diversion course, said the chief of the law enforce­ment section of the district's corporation counsel office Monday. Kasten was arrested Dec. 12 after running a red light, and was ar­raigned on a charge of driving while intoxicated. He has since finished the 10-lesson course on the dangers of drinking and driv­ing.-AP 
A grand theft of cocaine charge was made Mon­day against former Bingham Idaho County sherifrs deputy Carl Johnson, who was honored less than four months ago for his work against drug abuse. Johnson, who resigned as chief deputy last Fri­day as state officials began investigating the allegations, was free on his own recognizance pending his arraignment yesterday in Magistrate Court in Blackfoot. The charge came after a weekend · investigation by the Department of Law Enforcement found two ounces of cocaine unaccounted for in the county's evidence inven­tory, Sheriff Roy Nelson said. -AP 
Of Interest 
"Spain: New Territory of Exiles," a lecture to be given by Maria Olivera-Williams of the Modern and Classical Languages department, has been rescheduled for 4:15p.m. today. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, the lecture will be held in Room 131 of Decio Faculty Hall. -The Observer 
The 1986 Notre Dame Varsity Band will per­
form a concert today at 5 p.m. in front of the Administration Building. A variety of selections from the football and basketball seasons, Broadway tunes, folk songs, and Notre Dame songs will be performed. -The Observer 
A graduate piano recital will be given by Moragh McMullin at 7:15 tonight in the Annenburg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. The recital is sponsored by the department of music. -The Observer 
"Boundaries of American Kindreds" is the 
title of a lecture to be presented by Dr. Peter Rossi of the Universi­ty of Massachusetts in the Memorial Library auditorium at 7 tonight. The free lecture is part of the Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series and is sponsored by the department of sociology. -The Observer 
Weather 
Blow off work. Mostly sunny, breezy and warmer today with the high in the lower 70s. Partly cloudy tonight and tomor­row. Low tomorrow night near 50. High Fri­day near 70. -AP 

---_I"7he-O-'bse~~er----­
-.L-==-Y~ ----~ 
The Observer is continuing to ex­any delays or production errors. The perience ty~tting difficulties in situation will be amended as soon as the daily operation of the possible. newspaper. The stqffapologizes for 
lbr Obsrrvrr ( l'SPS ~99 l·-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.lbr Obsrrver is published hy the studentsofthe t·ni,·er.ity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for SW per year ( JlO per semester) by writing lbr Obsrrvrr, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
-46~~6. 
lbr Obsrrvrr is a membrr of lbr Associated Prrss. All reproduction rights are rrvrvrd. 


Thursday, April 24, 1986 -page 2 
CAMPUSYIIW APARTMINTS 
Still Renting for Fall 1986 
Tennis

Now under Construction: 
Basketball

(Ready for use this May) Volleyball Indoor pool, Jacuzzi, Exercise equip. available Phone for Special Summer Rates 
II 1441 

~···················································~
* • 
: :•••• Meet: ••••: ~ 
* * ~ •
: : Notre Dame Football Coach ~ ~ 
* 
~

* 
~

* 
~ 


~ "******************** ~ 

i LOUHOLTZ £
* ~ 
: .******************** ~
* ~ 
~ at the BLUE & GOLD Pep rally ~ 
* •
* 
~

* 
~ 


~ Friday, april 25, 7:00pm ~ 
* Enter Northwest Stadium Gates ~
* 
~

* 
~

* 
~

* 
~

* 
~

* 
~ 


~ *If rain: Main Arena of the ACC 7:00pm : * • • ~
* ~ ~ ~ 
: :sponsored by the Around the Comer Club and Student Government: :
: ~.... ..... :
* ~
...................................................... 

Attention Clubs and Halls 
Due to Lafortune Renovations, the Treasurer's Office is closing early. 
All check requests for 1985-86 funds MUST be received by 
MONDAY, APRIL 28 at 4pm 
in the Treasurer's Office 2nd floor Lafortune 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 



The Observer Thursday, Apri124, 1986 -page 3 

A Mick imitator displays his lips in last night's Airband contest on North Quad. The Rolling Stones entry took first in the event. 
L 
.1/ttcinlosb Pll~~. 


Administration, Congress divided over budget-balancing restrictions 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Reagan ad­ministration clashed with Congress yesterday in a Supreme Court con­frontation over the validity of the law that requires a balanced budget by 1991. 
Under brisk questioning from the justices, both sides engaged in a highly technical debate with far­reaching practical consequences. 
Charles Fried, the administra­tion's top courtroom lawyer, challenged the central provision of the law-the Gramm-Rudman Act­that empowers the comptroller general to determine required levels of deficit reduction. 
"Here we have an officer who gives orders to the president," said Fried. "These powers are entirely novel." 
He argued that the role of the comptroller general is unlawful because he performs executive functions under Gramm-Rudman but may not be fired by the presi­dent. 
This grant of authority violates the Constitution," Fried said. Lawyers for the House, the 
Senate and the comptroller general defended the law. 
Michael Davidson, the Senate's legal counsel, said the comptroller general performs as "a scorekeeper" under Gramm­Rudman, and the real power over deficit reduction is retained by the president and Congress. 
"The law, not the comptroller general, determines the desirable limit of deficit financing," David­son said. 
Steven Ross, representing the bipartisan leadership of the House, 
1 said the comptroller general's func­tion was the product of painstaking political compromise. 
The comptroller general was chosen for his role under Gramm­Rudman because of his in­dependence, Ross said, "in order to insure these calculations were wall­ed off from political considera­tions." 
Several justices suggested the comptroller general is actually a legislative officer, not an indepen­dent agent. 
The court, expediting considera­tion of the dispute, is expected to announce its decision by early July. 
On Feb. 7, a special three-judge 
• 
Finally, someone 'h<.IS come up with ways to help the !acuity get through college. 
Our Macintosh™ Plus personal computer. And our Macintosh Sl2K enhanced personal computer. 
Macintosh Plus is designed to give more power to faculty members. It has one full mega­byte of RAM. 128K of ROM. And a double-sided, 800K internal disk drive. 
1tanslated, that means it can generate a proposal for agrant faster than you can spend one. Make E.j(x)=fix+ I) as simple as ABC. And store an entire semester's worth of Jecn1re notes on a single 31/211 disk. 
As well as help you with extracurricular activities like research, budgeting, administration and publishing. 
However, if you're concerned with economics, you might want to consider our Macintosh 512K enhanced with its newly added double-sided 800K internal disk drive. Its consid­erably more affordable, yet still has enough power to run hundreds of leading software programs. 
And should your workload grow, so can your Macintosh 512K All the way up to Macintosh Plus. 
Of course, thanks to our advanced point­and-click mouse technology, both Macintosh computers are incredibly easy to use. So you can immediately do useful things, without spending a useless week in remedial computing class. 
Visit your campus microcomputer center for more informatioi1 and a demonstration. After all, stu~nts aren't the only ones who need a little help getting through college. 


NEW LOW PRICING ON MACINTOSH 512K/MACINTOSH PLUS UPGRADES NOW AVAILABLE 
University of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students  For further Information, Inquire at the Computing Center.  
can buy Macintosh computers at discounted prices  Room 25  9:00 • 5:00 M-F  
from the Notre Dame Computer Store.  Phone 239-7477  

court agreed with the Reagan ad­ministration and other challengers to the law and struck down a key 
provision  that  would  force  
automatic  cuts  in  the  federal  
deficit.  
But  the  law  remains  in  effect  

pending the Supreme Court's rul­ing, and Congress also continues to struggle with balancing the budget. 
The first $11.7 billion in spen­ding cuts required by the law took effect March 1, unaffected by the decision of the three-judge panel, which suspended its own ruling pending the Supreme Court review. 
The law calls for deeper cuts un­til all red ink in the federal budget is eliminated by 1991. 
The deficit now stands at ap­proximately $208 billion, although some in Congress hope favorable economic developments will reduce it. The Gramm-Rudman law re­quires the figure to be $144 billion for the next fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. 
To reach that goal, the law would force across-the-board cuts, with half the money slashed from military spending and half from domestic programs. 
Briton 
continuedfrom page 1 
would bring to four the number of 
British hostages slain in Lebanon. 
The first was Dennis Hill, an 
English language teacher at 
American University, who was 
found shot dead May 29, 1985, two 
days after he disappeared in west 
Beirut. 
Kilburn is the only American 
confirmed killed. His body was 
found with those of Douglas and 
Padfield alongside a mountain 
highway last Thursday. All had 
been shot at close range. 
Islamic Holy War, believed to be 
made up of Shiite Moslem zealots 
loyal to Iran, has claimed it kidnap­
ped five other Americans in the last 
two years. 
They are Terry Anderson, chief 
Middle East correspondent of The 

Associated Press; Father Lawrence 
Jenco, a Roman Catholic priest; 
David Jacobsen, director of the 
American University Hospital; 
Thomas Sutherland, acting dean of 
the university's school of 
agriculture, and U.S. embassy 
political officer William Buckley. 
Islamic Jihad claimed Oct. 4 that 

it had killed Buckley, but no body 
has been found. 
Apartheid 
continuedfrom page 1 
tioned whether the government 
would desegregate neighborhoods 
and give blacks a significant 
politial role. 
President P.W. Botha "still has 

to answer on the question of 
political representation for blacks 
at the decision-making level," 
Morobe said. 
Reaction from white moderates was more enthusiastic. Colin Eglin, leader of the opposition Pro­gressive Federal Party, predicted an economic upturn for the country when it became "free from the restrictions of the past ... and im­bued with a new positive spirit." 
The South African Institute of Race Relations, a private organiza­tion, said abolition of the pass laws, along with official recogni­tion of black unions in 1979, was "the most important reform in South Africa since World War II." 
The government's policy state­ment said the government believed "fundamental rights should be pro­tected and that discrimination on the grounds of race or color is not acceptable." 
The Observer Thursday, April 24, 1986 -page 4 
ND receives $681,252 in grants to fund research and equipment 
Special to tile Obeerver 
Notre Dame received $681,252 in grants during March for the sup­port of research, equipment, ser­vice programs and other projects. Research funds totaled $531,503 including: 
i212,000 from the Office of Naval Research for theoretical studies of semiconducting superlat­tices and microstructure by John Dow, Freimann professor of physics. 
$65,100 from the National Science Foundation for research on wrinkling in sheet metal forming by Lawrence Lee, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
$47,431 from the U.S. Navy for theoretical studies of phase transi­tions in mixed semiconducting alloys by Kathie Newman, assistant professor of physics. 
$33,400 from the American Chemical Society for research of thermal radiation and conduction tor, assistant professor of chemical engineering. 
$25,000 form the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion for research on turbulent boundary layer structure by Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
$20,000 from the Shell Develop­ment Co. for the study of hydraulic fracture by Nai-Chien Huang, pro­fessor of aerospace and mechanical engineering, and Albin Szewczyk, chairman and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
$20,000 from the Amoco Co. for hydraulic fracture research by Nai­Chien Huang, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
$19,709 from Catholic Universi­ty of America for a study of Erasmus-Pio debates by Daniel Sheering, associate professor of modern and classical languages. 
$15,090 from the National Science Foundation for the high school research apprentice program administered through the College of Science. 
$3,773 from the University of Wisconsin in Madison for the study of cascading trophic interactions in lake ecosystems by Stephen Carpenter, associate professor of biological studies. 
$3,000 from the National En­dowment for the Humanities for research on Schoenberg's early twelve-tone compositions by Ethan Haimo, associate professor of music, 
Awards for miscellaneous pro­jects were $108,950 from the National Research Council for a study of effects of new technology on employment conditions and $600 from the Indiana Arts Com­mission for a guest recital spon­sored by the music department. 
Awards for service programs in­cluded $16,948 from private benefactors for programs of the In­stitute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and $4,628 from the In­


AI' l'lloto 
McMachine Gun 
Italian carabiniera (para-military police), armed with submachine guns and bullet-proof vests, guard the entrance of McDonald's in downtown Rome Monday. All possible terrorism targets are being heavily guarded. 
in porous media by William Strieder: professor of chemical engineering. 
$30,000 from the National Science Foundation for a study of John Herschel's contributions to astronomy by Michael Crowe, pro­fessor in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
$29,500 from the National Science Foundation as a supple­ment to the Presidential Young In­vertigator award for Jeffrey Kan-
Board 
continuedfrom page 1 
bands on campus," she said. 
She also expressed her concern for better publicizing of movies at Saint Mary's. 
Traditional Events Commissioner Lisa Lawler said next year's Fall Fest is scheduled for Sept. 24-25. Tentative events include volleyball tournaments, an international din­ner, a band performance and the beer gardens, according to Lawler. 
She said Founders Day will be held Oct. 14, and the Christmas Bazaar is scheduled for Dec. 8-12. Lawler also said she is excited about planning a possible winter carnival at Saint Mary's for next year. 
Vice-President for Student Affairs Sarah Cook said planned events should be considered in terms of probable student response. 
"When planning events, we have to honest with ourselves. Will this really go over with the students?" she asked. 
The board's meeting was held at Haggar College Center. 
Dallesto)QI... It works••• for 
AU. 
OFUS 
Unitedway
• 

development of new techniques in rapid data acquisition of Halley's comet by Terrence Rettig, assistant professor of physics, and Randal 
Ruchti,  associate  professor  of  
physics.  
$4,500  from  the  National  In­ 

stitutes of Health for the minority 



It has finally arrived.... 
The 1986 Dome 
Pick up your yearbook outside Stepan Center Freshmen and all other students getyouryearbooktoday Now is the time to get it I ..__•Bring your Student I.D. ---• 
Weare 

. . ~AMERICAN
CANCER

wtnrung. 
'SOCIETY~ 


THI II 


THICKI 


THURSDAY 
1725 Nf)R';I'"! IRONWOOD DRIVE 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
12191272·7144
ironwood liquors 
Exotic Skin Sale
. 
' 
starting 
at $159.95 
\ 
Snakeskin 
Lizard skin 
Elephant skin 
Ostrich skin 

~iiiiiil\ 3 daisonly
~®'April \ 
25,26,27 
Otherboots as low as $4 
55345 Fir Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 259·1188 
•llll••'"''o Mile North of U.S. 20 on Fir Roo'il•llllllll 
Mon. Thru Sat. 10-8 Sun. 10·6 I 
diana Department of Public In­struction for the Institute for Ur­ban Studies' food nutrition pro­gram. 
Apple Computer Inc. awarded $18,623 to the Department of Materials Science and Engineering for new courseware development. 
Right now, you can get the hearty THURSDAY THICK ONE for only six bucks! A thick 12"" pizza with pepperoni. double cheese and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery 1n less than 30 m1nutes. So call Domino's Pizza and ask for the THURSDAY THICK ONE. 
Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. L1m1ted delivery area. No coupon necessary Not valid w1th any other offer 
EXTAA TIICII CIIST 

277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 

~ 
oi 
::1
.;: 

DOMINO'S -~ PIZZA ,g E DELIVERS" ;FREE. ~ .. 


Accent 
Thursday, April24, 1986-page 5 
''Maestro's'' work 
reflects spirit 
STEPHANIE SIEGEL years at the Academy his images of intervention. He spent the rest of features writer the people and the legendary the war as a refugee in Switzerland, figures of Croatia and the Bible as any return to his homeland was 
What do the Great Hall in had not changed much. However, frustrated by the presence of Tito's O'Shaughnessy, the front of the suceeding exhibits marked communism. which had succeeded library, Lewis Hall courtyard and Mestrovic as a leading nationalyist Fascism in Yugoslavia. Shortly chapel, Sacred Heart Church, since his work served to inspire after the war he accepted several Moreau Seminary, O'Shaughnessy his people in their fight for eman­religious commissions in Rome but courtyard and many other areas at cipation from the Austro­in 1947 moved on to America. Notre Same have in common with Hungarian empire. Although In the United States Mestrovic 
-~ tnajormuseum in the world? Mestrovic was now indentified as a first accepted a professorship at ~II .these. locP:t,iq~s contain works political figure and had joined the Syracuse University but as his work of the renowned Yugoslavian radical Vienna Secessionists, he at this time was almost entirely sculptor Ivan Mestrovic who ac­never neglected his work. Ex­devOl ed to the portrayal of tually worked and taught at this perimenting in a more impres­religious figures and portraits he University for the last eight years of sionistic style and creating a large was disappointed in the non­his life. Few students seem aware number of portraits, figural groups spirtual atmosphere of the school. of the contributions this great man and nudes, he exhibited throughout So when the Rev. Anthony J and exceptional artist made to the Europe and achieved international Lauck, C.S.C suggested that the world and to Notre Dame. From recognition. In fact, at this time he religious setting of Notre Dame be his personal crusade against the became acquainted with the world more conducive to his kind of evils of communism in his own renowned August Rodin who pro­work, he was extremely ammenable country, Croatia (later to become claimed Mestrovic "the greatest to the idea. In September of 1955, Yugoslavia), to the work ethic he phenomenon amongst the following Fr. Hesburgh's offer of taught his dedication to his art, to sculptors!" an extensive studio and a his inherent spirituality, Mestrovic Threatened with imminent arrest Distinguished Professorship, Ivan is an example for all. at the outbreak of WWI because of Mestrovic came to Notre Dame. 
Ivan Mestrovic was born in his efforts in the fight for a unified The students called him Vrpolje in present-day Yugoslavia and independent Yugoslavia, "Maestro" and had a deep admira­on August 15, 1883. His father had Mestrovic fled to Italy. At the end tion for this short, bearded man. been a stone mason as a young man of the war the formation of a He taought in the Old World and Ivan first became interested in Yugoslavia ruled by the dictatorial system, giving critiques of their sculpture by observing his work. King Alexander I, was not the solu­work as he continued with his own. From an early age, while tending tion Mestrovic had dreamed of. Professor Robert Leader had join­sheep, Ivan make wood and stone Consequently he refused election to ed the staff of the Art Department carvings and taught himself to read any office in the new government shortly before Mestrovic's arrival and write from the Bible, becoming and continued his work in veritable and offered several insights into his the only literate person .in his seclusion. rolt; here at Notre Dame. It scents village. At fifteen he was appren­By the onset of World War II that Mestrovic was adamant •n.chis ticed to a stonecutter and less than a Mestrovic was so well known that belief that a successful work of a:rt year later, through the influence of he received a personal summons !Jteftls no explanation. He a Viennese industrialist, was admit­from Hitler. In refusing it he was reiterated this fact to his students ted to the Vienna Art Academy reported to have said, "I am a little on one occasion at the expense of despite his lack of formal educa­man in a little studio in a little pro­an influential visitor. The woman tion. vince, but I don't have to shake purportedly pointed to a recently 
hands with a murderer." Whether completed sculpture and said, "Tell 
From his first exhibit in Vienna, or not this story is correct he was us about this one Maestro." He Mestrovic became regarded as a arrested soon after his refusal and replied, "Madame, I have spent the revolutionary in art. After four only released as a result of Vatican last six months telling you about 
••  ·;  r  .  ·~·  '  
'.,,i :·  I l  
\  
''  

The CJbM....,r/Jim Carroll 

The well of"Christ and the Samaritan Woman" was tied to the bow ofa ship to achieve its special coloring. 
this one!" According to Professor Samarit\in Woman (in the Leader, the greatest contribution he O'Shaugh~ &culptur.e _ .cour­made to this University was hsi in­tyard) was'm'e3'te!i :in, tb~~t~~i,9:?f, 
struction, primarily by example, in the Maestro here at Notre ·name, the success achieved by dedication but was shipped to Rome to be to the task at hand and never­bronzed. By explicit directions, on ending hard work. He worked har­the return trip the well was tied to dre and longer than any student on the bow of the ship so that the new campus and at age 73 was more bronze could attain the natural than twice their age. In his work he green coloring produced by salt set a standard of excellence for water. students and professors alike and helped establish art as a respected Another more famous sculpture, profession. the Pieta in Sacred Heart Church 
Many of Mestrovic's sculptures was originally conceived after the around the Notre Dame campus war in Rome, proceeded to reside have curious histories concerning in the Metropolitan Museum of their construction or acquistion. Art, and finally came to Notre One such sculpture, Christ and the Dame openly exposed on a flatbed 
to the amazement of other motorists. Mestrovic was once of­fered $150,000 for this same piece in 1955 by Marshal Tito but prefer­red not to give any demonstration of support to the communist regime. There are quite a few other interesting examples of his work on campus as well, many of which are consolidated in his old studio (now a gallery of the Snite Museum). 
Ivan Mestrovic worked until January 16, 1962 when he fell ill in his studio and died later the same day. However, the spirit of Mestrovic is still alive at Notre Dame, as he once said, "Our works in this world are the impressions left by the wings of our souls, which though they are not eternal are the impress of an eternal be­ing." It is especially important to be aware of this outstanding man as he made a lasting imprint, not only on Notre Dame but on the world, in the words of Amte Tresic, a Croatian writer, "Mestrovic is not only a great artist but a very pro­found thinker. He is Proteus in everlasting evolution, always t •• ~ same, yet always different, like the time and ambient atmosphere in which he works. He trys to express all the sentiments and aspirations not only of his nation, but of all humanity. He belongs not only to 
one nation but to all nations and all times."
One of"Maestro's" works in the lobby ofMemorial Library 
The Observer Thursday, April 24, 1986 -page 6 

* 
* NOTRE DAME AC6 
ANSWERING MACHINES S39 
APPLIANCES 
WHIRLPOOL • GIBSON MORE 
FACTORY REPRESENTATIVES ON HAND WITH FACTORY AUTHORIZED DISCOUNTS 
y~\t~c., v,~~ ~ (}~~ ~'( 
~ ~\~() 

BOB'S FURNITURE FREE DELIVERY & APPLIANCES SET-UP & REMOVAL 

STEREO 
DENON • POLK Al)DIO • JVC • PIONEER • FISHER NAD • BOSTON ACOUSTICS • NAKAMICHI BANG & OLUFSEN • MANY MORE EXAMPLE YAHANA HOME EQUALIZER ........ 899 incredible 
CAR STEREO 
ALPINE • NAKAMICHI • SANYO SENTREK • PROTON • YAMAHA MORE • up to 50Dfa OFF or more 

Fashion or Cycle Jackets OIL PAINTINGS 
Priced !rom 
SAVE TO 50% OFF OR MORE 
····l. LUGGAGE·· ..· 
CARRY-ONS· • GARMENT 

FACToRY lUGGAGE OUTLET 
SHIRK'S PIANO 
BALDWIN & ORGAN PIANO 
A 
& ORGANS 
"""r'ff 
NIKDN -. MINOLTA -~ 
CANON ~ 
MORE ­
50% OFF 
WATERBEDS 
SHEET COMFORTERS  
PILLOWS  
~  ALL BEDS~  
500/oOFF  
.  
.  
.  
OR MORE  
watarbad  
~room~  

NO $ DOWN • NO PAYMENTS FOR 90 DAYS twtapp= 
Over 1,000 pairs of . at $15 and under! 
. All 1st Quality ~ Shoes t.J 
from E2~~~~~

$1 o • 
IB ~ 
.---balance· " 1"HA 
I~ p•t-.:~ ___,_ 
~ r,_ ...... ,11/K£­. adides.._~_... ~ 
Reg. values: S25 to S70 f..l1'1a:abok 
LEATHE JACKETS 
Over 1,000 Men's & Women's 
CAMERAS 
MINOLTA NIKON CANON MORE 
LENSES BAGS MISC• 
500/o OFF 
MEN'S SUITS UP TO 
50°/o OFF 
....................,.1000's OF OTHER 
SPECIALS SUITS JEANS SLACKS TOPS SHIRTS 
SOUTHSIDE FURNITURE
RPET 
10 Piece Pit Group 8788
SERVICE OUTLET 

The Observer Thursday, April 24, 1986 -page 7 
,, 
Sports Briefs 
The Blue-Gold football game will be held 
Saturday at I :30 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of a cur­rent ID card at gates 15 and 16 only. General admission tickets are available to the public at gate 10 of the ACC. The cost for adults is $3 ($4 on game day) and $1 for youth ($1.50 on game day). -The Observer 
Lou Holtz will speak to the student body at the Blue-Gold pep rally tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. In case of rain, the rally will be held in the ACC's main arena. -The Observer 
The An Tostal Hangover 5-K run will be held on Saturday at 9:30a.m. starting at Stepan Center. Registration will take place the morning of the race at 8:30, also. at Stepan. For more information call Jeff Westhaven at 283-3559.-The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number of the person submitting it. -The Observer 

New York Rangers center Mike Ridley (18) tries the game and then scored the game-winning goal to ­to get the puck through Washington Capitals edge the Caps 6-5 last night. that win ties the series player Daryl Evans (24). Rangers Bob Brooke tied at two games apiece. 
Thl' Ohsl'rl'l'r Nolrt: l>amt· offitT. lttl'att•d on tht• third floor or l.dh>rlunt· ~!Udt•n! ( .t'nlt:r. acn·pt' da"ifkd ad\'l·rlbinl( from<) am until I p m ..\lunda\ 
through l'riday Thl' f!hs<-rt'l'r ~ainr \lan ·, otfiu·. lot;llt·d on tht· tlurd floor of Hal(l(ar Cotlt'l(t' <.t'nlt'r. anT ph o:la"ifit-<.1, from 1.! ~0 p m until .~ p 111. \ton. cia\· though frida\ t>t:adlint: [or nt·xt·dJ\ tla"ilkd' h .~ p m .\11 cla"olkd' · 
mu't ht· prrpaod. rithn 111 pt·.-on or h' mao! ( haq.~t·" I 0 tt'nl' rwr fin·t·hara.··



Classifieds 
''"' l'r dav. 
LOST: APRIL 18, CAStO TOUCH SEN· I need graduation tlx. Wilt pay OOOD FOR SALE AIRLINE TICKETS. BEND WOW!!!! Thank you to all of my 
CLUB ITALIA T-SHIRTS: CALL 1581 SOR CALCULATOR WATCH. MONEY. PLEASE CALL Pat at 289· TO N.Y. LGA MON, MAY 19$79. CALL friends tor making my birthday the (FRED) OR 214-5418 (REBECCA) FORNOTICES CHROME CASE AND BAND. CON· 7340 alter 5:30p.m. MAUREEN AT 288·5073. best one yet. The kidnapping was 
MORE INFORMATION. FIRMATION GIFT FROM MY outrageous (I hate coffee Ice cream), BROTHER. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL the party was fantastic (Icing,TypngAv...,._ 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE·
CHUCK XXX·1956 anyone?), and the book Ia so very
217-40112 
MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY (S$). 
FOR SALE 4 COMMENCEMENT TIXS special. It really means a tot to me MARK, PAUL, SAM, STEVE -CALLCALL BRENT, 2n·0417, EVES. 
BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FOR and will keep me going when 1 am In YOUR OIRL. THERE'S ONLY 24 DAYSBEFORE 10. 

USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P.O. Angers and missing all of you. I love LEFT I Men, Be AaHrtlve LOST: KEYS, APRIL 9, ON SOUTH BOX 964 NO, IN 46556 B4 05/07/86 you all. Whoever thinks diamonds are
··········· ............. . 
QUAD OR POSSIBLY AT UNIVERSITY NEED TIX FOR COMMENCEMENT, a girl's best friend has NEVER MET PARK MALL. THERE WERE FIVE will pay BIG $$. Call Steve at 277· ALL OF YOU I Love always, Mary KEYS ON A PLAIN RING WITH NO 0485, evenings. Charlie· congrata on the grad achool. 
W~Typlng TAG. $20 REWARD. PLEASE CALL We'll a tart celebrating Sunday 
························· 
CHUCK AT XXX-1956 
NEED RIDE TO EAST. ILL. UNIV OR TERRE HAUTE OR ST. LOUIS (OR TICKETS appllcallona are now being ac· PARTS NEARBY) LEAVE 4/25 cepted Typtng/WordprOOeulng LOST:::SILVER RING (ADJUSTABLE), RETURN 4/27 WILL SHARE USUAL tor Senate Advlaory Committee Van Ia a •nuaaance" to our aoclety. 2n·8131 TWO HEARTS DESIGN. REWARD. 
272·11827 
CALL BOB 2202 District 3 Dillon, Fisher,. Pangborn, BEWAREIII CALL CAROLYN, 283-4619 
Lyons, Morrissey, Howard, Badin. S$FORYOURLOFTCALLJONAT2047 Pick up forms In Govl. offices LaFor·
In need of 2 commencement llcketa. Please help out If you can. Will pay!
XPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU tune tOday. No experience Is 
Call Rick 232·8897. 
AS. COKER, 233·70011. D.R.I!. NEEDED IMMI!DIATELY TO BE necessary. Jill, What do you mean thai those PART OF PLANNING FOR RELIOIOUS "Van" peraonals are lnleraallng?
FOUND: MEN'S CLASS RING 
OVERNMENT JOBS. 118,040 · EI)UCATIONAL WINO OF 5 YEAR OLD Here's another, Van Ia a •nuaaance" ,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 1105-887· By Flanner and Grace, describe In­HfOH I!NI!RGY SOUTHERN PARISH. and avallableCyeah,Rtghl) II Ext. R·ll8341of currant federal Ull. 
Itials and class year to claim. Call FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TIXS
STRONG ROOTS IN R.C.I.A., R.C.I.C.,
Rose 239·7860 9a.m.·1p.m. BEST OFFER 289-8417 B411PM 
Re'M!W. ATTENTION NOTRE DAME...CHRIS ............ ,\ .................. 
IALI!II ..... up Ill 10 ,..._ 
CONTACT: SEARCH COMMITTI!I!, 
JAJESNICA IS CELEBRATING HER 
•17-30 -IT. I'IIANCII IHOI'N -FOUND: CAMERA AT SENIOR BAR HOLY FAMILY CATHOLIC CO... FIRST "SCORE" TODAY. CALL HER Hey Man, what In the hell era those Fellme....,... Center, Open 10 BEFORE SPRING BREAK. CALL TOM MUNITY, P.O. BOX 130, CLEMMONS, Need Graduation Tlx Desperately!!! UP AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTH· •van• peraonala. Orow up or gat out, 
IlL • I p.111. Mon.·IIIL AT 272·2486. NC27012. WILL PAY ANY PRICE!!! John 4057 DAY! If you know what I meanII OHz, UH your money tor beer or aomelhlng
························ 
HELP! Lost while knit coat with keys $$$$ lots of hard. cold cash $$$$$ for HAVE BIG FAMILY & NEED A LOT other than peraonala, Okay? Anyway, In pocket at Lee's Ribs last Thurs. your extra graduation llcket(s) leave (10) OF COMM. TIX! WILL PAY! CALL what'a ao cool about a driving vahl· Please call x2594 If you have them! mesg. for John at 239·7278. PAUL ZIMMER 277-39121 cle?t
JULIA WILL GET VERY VERY MUDDY COME SATURDAY AFTERNOON--ANOTHER CHALLENGE. BB 
WANTED 
Welcome to the world Aahley Marte 
.____F_O_R_R_EN_T____JIIL..,__P_ER_SO_N_A_L_S___J Aprtt21, 1988 atba eoz ······························································· 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE Ill 
.................................................................
LOST/FOUND] 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO OAR HOUSI!: COLD BI!ER I LIQUOR. KEITH once declared that he waa not, HI!LPWAN'MD 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2878389 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1Motel Deell Cllttt, lmmecllale Opening, 
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Jamie you are an awesome room·
................................................................
LOST: KEY CHAIN with yellow l!venlnga, FuU/Part-tlme Avail. 
mate.
4 & 5 BEDROOM HSES FOR RENT, BLOCK OF 5 HOUSES (3 LEFT) $400 Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at -Thanks, Kevin
"Grace Hall' tag at party on Colfax St. through au--Call 23S-11114 7a.m.­
or on campus. Without them I can't 1p.m. KEITH once declared that he was not,
272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday: 5pm·2am Friday: 
MO. CALL :zse.ol33 OR 234·9364.
open my room, mailbox, car, or never was and never would be a house. Please help me by calling 283-............ .. .zARFI Now what does he say? Old
Ride NEEDED to COLUMBUS, OHIO 3pm·1am Saturday: 4pm·10pm Sunday . 
3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. 3 bedroom house with fireplace to be he need to consult with Dan?
on Friday May 2. Call Bill a14004. COMPLETE MADNESSttt 
Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. sublet tor summer. For Info call 2743 Spend your FRIVOLOUS FRIDAYor3347. 
PREGNANT? 
night a1 COMPLETE MADNESS!!!!
LOST-two notebooks and an 
NEED HELP? 
Dance to the tunes of Mad Money atEngineering Materials book from 
Established Band, Into New Music -3 bedroom apartment, summer only. Call 234·0363. 2<1-hr. hotllne, Stepan Center !II LOFTS LOFTS LOFTS!! !II TWO SMC
South Dining Hall on Thursday, April 
counseling & free pregnancy teat. LOFTS FOR SALE! CHEAPIIII CALLLooking tor a Guitarist and Drummer Fully furnished, 10 min from NO,17. Please return them to the dining 
WOMAN'S CARE CENTER 284-4401.
tor Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 233 6298 (even·
hall -II will take me hours to recopy beautiful $300 mo 
lngs)all the notes. (I didn't really want 
THIRSTY THURSDAY AT SMCI 
To the guy In the computer lab who
anyone to see the test I nearly failed WANTED: Ride needed to MSU Frl· 
THIRSTY THURSDAY AT SMCI 
unplugged my terminal last
either. .please return II so I can day the 25th, normal cost sharing ar· THIRSTY THURSDAY ATSMCI Tues...Sorry I was a rag-1 FUN ...yes I'm watching. When and
redeem myself on finals.) rangemenls. Ask tor David at x1076, such was 
SUMMER.8 BDRM HOME. 272-8308 only mad at the damn computer. where do you want to meet? 
call anytime. 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Charity 
SSMOTH EZE $SMOOTH EZES SMC girl wants OC roommate tor 
Ball with honorary emcee Lou Holtz my 2 yr. old son's basketball was summer and/or tall. She's friendly 
May 2, 8 p.m. · 1 a.m. at the ACC Pro· ceeds go to World hunger WE THOUGHT WE KNEW EACH THE LONELY MAN FOR UGLY MAN 
mlslakenly laken from the bookstore and outgoing. Call Suzette at 233· 
All welcomeS OTHER . . until we played THE LONELY MAN FOR UGLY MAN 
game on Slepan 2 at/around 4 p.m. 5398 or leave message at 272-4637. FOR SALE GROUPLES--BEYOND THE There Is only one Lonely Man, makeSunday 4/20. II Is a Wilson Supershot Thanks. 
CARDSII No mere "scruples" this him the Ugly Man I b·ball. A MacGregor trball was left In LOU HOLTZ lime. Bandage, what will you do when Joe Baaque tor UMOC Its place. The MacGregor has I need graduation tlx. Will pay OOOD 
SEU YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $SS THE LONELY MAN FOR UGLY MAN 
LOU HOLTZ you have to sit in the smoking section 
SMOOTH EZE written ot II. If you MONEY. Please call Pat at 289·7340 
AND CREDIT! Cliff notes available. PAN· THE LONELY MAN FOR UGLY MAN 
of an airplane? Premarital sex, the
know anything about this mixup, after 5:30p.m. LOU HOLTZ
DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 
sacrament of recondlliallon, Fae· ter·
please call Jim Mills at 272-8180 (of. Will speak to the student bOdy at the
233·2342 mlnal Illness can gel very very ugly.
flee), 277-8039 (home). My son can tell SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, 
'!!!.'..:.:.""'''"'''''""'"'"'''''''',"'''"'''''""'"""'' Blue and Gold Pep-Rally Friday, April 
Dave doesn't care about the dlallnc· ­
the difference despite the fact that Adams High School. One-half mile APPLE IMAGEWRITER, VERY GOOD 25th at 7:00 p.m. In the Football lion belween a lover, partner, VOTE FOR ZEKE VELOUR FOR
lhe ball a are of comparable quallly. from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two COND. WITH CABLE, MANUAL, CAR· Stadium. In case of rain head to the practices per dayk, live days/wk. Ap· RYING CASE $275 080. 7016 CAM· Main Arena ot the ACC, same lime. benefactor or spouse-he Just wants UMOC 
a goOd old "yea or no" question.
Lost, a gold bracelet with Egyptian prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288· PUS OR 233-1299 EVES. Come show your support for the Whose Idea was this anyway??!!
charms on Saturday 19th, at Corby 4855. Football Team! I Beach, I am putting this In at your
Sir. II has a personal value and f:oFi sAi.E; ·L,i.~· ~~:,; GE -~t~~·,:, ·,~~~ KEN LUMB We've been watching you. 
behe, behe, bequest! 
means a lot to mel It found please w/full Ironing board and cover. $15. JOE BASQUE FOR UMOCI Sorry bud, we've got the goOds on contact Amlra at 288·5420, or Nancy Kelly 233·5284 evenings. The man who considered becoming a
GOVERNMENT JOBS. you. Beware.
al291·8381. GENEROUS REWARD priest "because little girls trusl
$16,040·$59,230/yr. Now Hiring, Call 
priests." The man who loves sheep
1-805-687-8000 Ext. R-9834 for current FOR SALE • 78 DODGE CHALLENGER MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM·
LOST: SILVER RING (ADJUSTABLE), and "cute." BASQUE,Excellent Condition, Sporty (Sliver w/ hates FOR racing stripes) $1500 or best oHer Call 272·8280 weekends, 272·9181 I think I'd rather be a flight allendant 
federal lis!. MER! TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call
TWO HEARTS DESIGN. REWARD. UGLINESS IS NOT A STATE OF AP· CALL CAROLYN, 283-1619. 283·3282. Ask for Sang or Jeff. PEARANCE,IT'S A WAY OF LIFE. weekdays. than a chemist 
........... JOE FOR UMOCI 
LOST: Key on key chain that says Riders needed to CLEVELAND ­"Mary's Keys." If found, please call AKRON -CANTON -KENT. Leave 79 BUICK SKYHAWK. Clean,1704. 
Friday 4/25 return Sunday 4/27. Call toaded.272-6308 TERRI AND KIM ARE OREATII Oh 0-·/t's LISA HOWARD'S Blrfh· another new lova...and of course he's 1899 and ask tor Len. tall, but he can never be too tall.
day!/ 

LOST!! CLASS OF '88 RING. GOLD DINNER RING WITH RED STONE. FOR SALE • 2-bed loft, finished & 
J«ME IS INSIDE. LOST 4/22 IN 118 stained, 
NOTICE NEED RIDE/RIDERS TO I.U. FOR LIT· black v1ny11-. and 2 clrHHr8. My land Ia closed toelayt HARY MEALY FOR UMOCIII HARY MEALY HARY MEALY HARY ·f.ISH. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL X3731 MEALY HARY MEALY HARY MEALY
TLE 5 LEAVING FAt CALL CHRIS 284· HARY MEALY FOR UMOCtll
OR RETURN TO 447 PW, OR LEAVE Call Shalla at 272·1 081. 
5250 NOTICE hary mealy tor umocttt HARY MEALY HARY MEALY UMOCIN NSH LOST&FOUND (RM.225) 
UMOCUMOCUMOCUMOCTHANKS. 
:..•............................ 
--~--­

The Observer Thursday, April24, 1986 -page 8 
-
Football 
continuedfrom page 12 
Zackrison. 
"I feel very good about the pro­gression of the tight ends so far," said Stewart. "I think Joel has real­ly come on this spring, and I think he has a chance to follow the tradi­tion here and be a great tight end. But Andy Heck could be also with the physical tools he possesses. But there's no question we're in ade­quate shape right now." 
offensive backfield 
When record-setting tailback Allen Pinkett made his final carry for the Irish last season, he carried away with him any easy decisions for the Notre Dame coaching staff 
regarding the position.  Things got  
worse from here.  
Leading  tailback  candidate  

Hiawatha Francisco's arthritic knees kept him out of action for much of the spring and on the bench where he joined last year's 

Mark Green 
back up, Alonzo Jefferson, who is still recovering from a severe knee injury. Then in the first week of spring workouts, incumbent fullback Frank Starns and freshman tailback D'Juan Fran­cisco both suffered injuries which grounded them for the remainder of the term. 
Still, most viewers of the Notre Dame practices could not help but be impressed by the early showing of those called on to fill in the gaps. 
Included in this group of satisfied observers is Stock. 
"The injuries have hurt us and we have a long way to go but if we can stay on track we can be very effec­tive and proficient," he said. "The tailback position has been an­chored throughout by Hiawatha Francisco. But his availability is 
Whalers win in overtime at home, 2-1 
Associated Press 
Kevin Dineen scored an unassisted goal 1 :07 into overtime, lifting the Hartford Whalers to a 2-1 victory over the Montreal Canadiens last night. The Adams Division series is tied at two games apiece. The fifth game of the series will ;be"played tomorrow night at Montreal. 
Dineen picked the puck up in the
-neutral zone, stepped around defenseman Larry Robinson and lifted a wrist shot over Canadiens goalie Patrick Roy. Mats Naslund had scored a power-play goal with 7:38 remain­ing in regulation to tie the game for Montreal. 
The Whalers scored first in the first period when a shot by Sylvain Turgeon from close range was par­tially deflected by Roy and stuffed into the net by Stewart Gavin. 
Two other series with surprising results so far continue tonight, with Edmonton at Calgary and St. Louis at Toronto. 
day-by-day at this point and we're not yet sure about the fall. 
"We have three green freshmen 
Irish baseball breaks losing streak 
in D'Juan, Corny (Southall), and Mark (Green). It's been a good 18 By BOB GORDON putting a runner on first who later scoreless innings string ended as did days with these youngsters and Sports Writer advanced to third on a blocked the game. Green seems to have stepped out of pickoff attempt and scored on a The loss was especially the pack. He's not quite there yet, The Irish baseball team entered single. Then with two out the frustrating to Notre Dame head but with his talents and instincts he yesterday's action riding an eight­Falcons got a clutch double and coach Larry Gallo, who said, "It has the potential to be a very good game losing streak. The most re­single to post a three-run spot. really hurts because we had our op­tailback." cent loss an 18-0 thrashing, featur­The game stayed at 3-1 until the portunities." 
For the ex-flanker Green, who ing nine Irish errors. Pitcher Mike sixth, when Moshier smacked a In the nightcap, the Irish took has shown breakaway speed along Passill took his first defeat of the lead-off double, which kissed the out ALL that frustration on Bowl­with a good set of hands, the con­season. Scott Rogers and John left-field line. Tom Shields reached ing Green, pounding them 15-4. test for a starting position is unim­Loughran had two hits apiece as on a one out walk. Then John Shields and Pesavento led the portant. Irish bats produced seven total. Loughran grounded out to the se­onslaught with four and three hits 
"I feel like right now it's just a cond baseman scoring Moshier respectively, as two of Shields' hits matter of doing my best and letting An Irish player may have put the from third. were homers. things fall together themselves," he Lewis loss best when he said, Ken Soos ripped a shot handcuff­Irish pitcher Mark Watzke said. "It took a while to get used to "Every time we got inside the twen­ing the third baseman, which went coasted the distance as Falcon left the new offense but now I feel I and ty, we just couldn't punch it in the as an error. Hutson collected his bander Jeff Hook served up six the other backs are starting to make endzone." second RBI by singling Shields runs in only one inning. For his the correct reads and come But yesterday the Irish got off home. After an inning-strikeout by one inning of "work", Hook (0-1) together. I think we're all going to their endzones and broke their los­Rich Vanthournout, the Irish and earned the loss, before getting the play. Different people will fill dif­ing streak by splitting a Falcons were deadlocked at three. hook. ferent roles in this offense." doubleheader with Bowling Green, Notre Dame scored early and 
Blocking ahead of the tailbacks thus bringing their season record to At the top of the seventh, often with three in the first, four in will be fullbacks Pernell Taylor and 16-22. Chenail gave way to relief pitcher the second, and five in the third. In Tom Monahan. Taylor has shown After dropping a heart-breaker Mike Harmon, who was the even­these three productive innings, considerable quickness out of the 4-3 in eleven innings, Notre Dame tual toughluck loser. Harmon, Shields, with five RBI's in the backfield and is the big blocking exploded by abusing Bowling now 3-3, gave a gutty performance game, wrapped three hits and back needed to clear holes for Green, 15-4. with help from leftfielder Pat scored three times. Pesavento and Green and the tailbacks. The ex­In the first game, Tim Hutson Pesavento. Norm Diebel each had two hits and perienced Monahan, meanwhile, broke a scoreless tie as he nailed his Pesavento gunned down a trying two runs scored, and Tom Guilfoile has been a consistent performer on fourth home run of the season over to tag up from third with the go­also scored twice after being hit by virtually every test thrown his way. the rightfield wall to give the Irish a ahead run. Pesavento was also a a pitch and then singling. 
While the days of Pinkett's 1-0 lead. The lead was short-lived, mainstay on the bases with two Tom Shields put a fitting ex­backfield reign may be over, the however, as Bowling Green extra-inning hits, but he did just clamation point in breaking the los­days of a more balanced attack answered in the top half of the that stay as Irish bats failed to ing streak with his second homer in seem to be looming ahead. And in third. The Falcons touched knock him in. the bottom of the sixth, as he and a Holtz backfield, where one is faultless pitcher Kevin Chenail for Harmon's only mistake was a the Irish rolled the Falcons back to likely to see a flanker in a wishbone three unearned runs. lethal one, a one-out homer to Bowling Green. The Slugging Irish every now and then, one should not The Falcon rally began with one Falcon Rich Welch. Bowling are back in action Saturday at take anything for any player for out when scappy second baseman Green pitcher Steve Hiffman got home against Bulter in a granter. Mike Moshier committed an error, the victory. Harmon's 4 113 doubleheader beginning at noon. 

·"g'Qoweh~ fph aQQ occ:a~io~~ 
Come in and Browse 
31J lincolnway 232-3354 
UNIVERSITY CENTER 
directly behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 
& 
adjacent to Macri's Deli 
mass ofThanksgiving for 

Kevin Hurley 
be visiting Notre Dame 
this weekend. 
Sacred Heart Church Sunday, April27 4p.m. 
rant: Father David Tyson, C.S.C. ·Father Andre Leville. C.S.C. 

College of Science 
DEAN'S RUN 
Twice around the Lakes (7km) 

Sunday, April27 at Noon 
Register in 229 Nieuwland 
The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 

The Wav of the Cross 
Accordinf! to the Gospel of Mark 
Adaptation and Lyrics by 
Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19and24,25,26 
General Admission $4 Group rates available Call (219) 239-5957 


The Observer Thursday, Apri124, 1986 -page 9 
Physical play intensifies in Women's Bookstore 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
Referees started work yesterday in the quarterfinals of the Women's Bookstore Basketball Tournament -and not a round too soon, as moments of physical play increased with the level of competition. Ad­vancing to the semis are We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School, Double Decker Oreo Cookie, Revenge of the Quixotic Quint and The Almosts. 
We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School continued its winning string yesterday against Negligence. Fielding a team of freshmen, We Weren't Cheerleaders capitalized on some of Negligence's shooting difficulties to win 15-7. Kathleen 
5~~ 
SMIRNOFF VODKA 

10~.~ 
SEAGRAM'S CANADIAN HUNTER 

a·.~. 
KINGS CELLAR SCOTCH 
a·.~. 

EARLY TIMES BOURBON 
11~~ 
BURNETT'S GIN 

9~~. 
~~BARTLES&
n JAYMES 
.~ 2~~. 
SUN COUNTRY COOLER 
2~.~ 
McDavid, playing in the low post, dominated Cheerleaders' scoring with six points, while Helen Gilboy paced the rebounding with eight boards. Volleyball player Mary Kay Waller also contributed underneath, and point guard Lauren Romeo honed her defensive skills, holding Negligence's backcourt to a combined 0-of-15 performance. 
Challenger and 4 Other Balls of Fire failed to avenge last year's third round loss to Revenge of the Quixotic Quint, losing again this year, 21-10. Last year, the Quint went all the way to the finals with three of its five players. Marilu Almeida, Regi Richter and Kara England. A fourth, Mimi Storen, played against the Quint yesterday on Challenger. Richter led all scorers with nine points. Former varsity guard Denise Basford drop­ped in eight. 

Richter, the Quint's center, ex­pressed her pleasure at playing on the same team with Basford. 
"Denise is really good," said Richter. "She's a good all-around athlete. We're really lucky to get her." 
In a minor upset, Double Decker Oreo Cookie defeated Violent Fem­mes II, the tourney's fourth seed. Oreo Cookie carries its full allowance of varsity athletes with a 
former  basketball  player,  Lisa  
Brown,  and  freshman  volleyball  
players  Zanette  BenpPtt  and  

~BARREL 
BUSCH KEGS 
2599 
BACARDIRUM 
SEBASTIANI WINES 
4·.~. 
• WHITE 
ZINFANDEL 
• COUNTRY 
CHENIN BLANC 
• CA6ERNET 
SAUYIGNON 
• CHAROONNA Y 
LANCERS 
All Flavors Rochelle Holder. The Femmes, though, kept up with the Cookie. At one point late in the game, Cookie only Jed 15-13. In the end, however, Double Decker Oreo pull­ed ahead to win by a final score of 21-15. 
Oreo Cookie balanced its scoring across the roster. Holder finished with seven, Bennett with six and Brown with five. For the Femmes, dominating center Janet Shander turned in an excellent 9-of-12 per­formance. 
The Almosts, the tourney's third seed, used superior team organiza­tion to defeat The Pacers, 21-14. The third seed was simply over­powering on the boards. Patti Mileski pulled down 15, Mary Ellen Mileski had 13 and Laura Gleason grabbed II. 
Most of The Pacers managed to work out a scheduling conflict with registration at Saint Mary's, but the game still began without Lisa McGrath. McGrath entered the competition about 15 minutes into the game as the Pacers were trailing 8-3. Jenn Harto's six points and ten rebounds Jed the Pacers. Eight points from Gleason carried The Almosts. 
The final four remaining teams receive an off day tomorrow before beginning the semifinals on Saturday We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School will take on Double Decker Oreo Cookie, and Revenge of the Quixotic Quint play The Almosts at 5 Saturday on the Stepan courts. 
FRESHMEN: 
Get Involved!~~~ 


Applications are now available for Sophmore Advisory Council Reps. and Sophmore Class Commissioners are available In the Student Activities Olfice (8:30-4:30) 1st floor LaFortune 
Applications due bv 
I4:30pm, Friday, April 25th I 
at the Student Activities Olfice 
All interested are encouraged to apply 

The Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana thanks all the Notre Dame students who have so generously volunteered their time to our agency this past year: 
DAVID FINN KEVIN QUINN BILL STOLL NORBKNAPKE KAY BULL KATHY SKENDZEL STEVE KOLSKI DON MONTANARO EDDIE KELLY JENNIFER MILLER JOHN KROMER MARACUSHWA POLLY MAIER ANGIE LLOYD TIM McCARTHY KATY SPALDING SANDY PASSMORE BEAVER McDONALD 


-·:_-r-andy Corporation/ ·:,= Radio Shack 
is pleased to announce an 111a1•· agreement with••• University of Notre Dam extending to faculty, staff, and students a 
20°/0discount 
on any Tandy computer and any software, accessory or periphera purchased with the computer. Order authorization forms and complete details of the agree~ ment are available only at... 
Radio Shack Computer Center 1827 E. South Bend Ave . 


The Observer Thursday, April 24, 1986 -page 10 
Golfers expect a fight with tough Ohio teams 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
After spending last weekend in Columbus, the men's golf team will once again return to Ohio. this weekend's site will be in Kent, Ohio , where the Irish will participate in the 13th annual Kent St. invita­tional, as Ball St., Miami of Ohio, 
N. Illinois, Ohio and Kent St. are all ranked in the top 10. Windmill Lakes Golf Club will be the site of the tourney, with the·format calling for 36 holes Friday, and 18 Satur­day on the par 70 course. the Irish will hold a practice round today, before starting play Friday at 8:00 a.m.. They will be paired with tournament favorite Kent St. 
Notre Dame coach Noel O'Sullivan says his squad is looking forward to a stiff challenge this weekend, as the team will be mak­ing its first appearance in the an­nual tournament. 
"We are very hopeful that this will be a good tournament for us, we need to improve upon last week's finish," O'Sullivan says. "The key for us may be that we have had past success playing MAC schools, so I think our 
guys know that they can play well against the rest of the field. We are due, as a team, to play a good tour­nament." 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
Much More Manhood outmann­ed Keenan Inmates II in the long run, winning 21-16. Tim Brown was once again the driving factor for Manhood, shooting 9-of-18. 
The Inmates kept it close by banging under the boards to outre­bound Manhood 36-24, as George Boldus grabbed 10. The Inmates could not break out of a 16-60 shooting handcuff as many calls were contested by both teams in this rough game. 
We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
c:oatact., ....... 
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show your J.D. aad receive 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&cladlag Spedaa. 

ProfessionalVISion 
ASSOCIATES 
1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400
277-1161 
Martin's Shopping
South of U.S. 23 
Center 
Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments NOWIIENIJNG FOilFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, aU deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at llO NDAve lU-6647/256-5716 CaiiAaytime 
The Irish hopes for a top finish will ultimately depend on the character of the team. From the ranks emerges one person who ex­emplifies the word, character. Ac­cording to O'Sullivan, senior Lon Huffman has exhibited this trait, especially over the last three weeks. 
"Lon has been hitting the best, by far, lately," says O'Sullivan. "He has been our number one guy in the last two tournaments we have been in, and in my eyes he has played very impressively." 
O'Sullivan also noted that sophomore Richard Connelly could be a pleasnat surprise in the tourna­ment. 
"Rich is capable of shooting good rounds, which we would most certainly like to see him get, so I think he could be a big factor in us doing well this weekend." 
Naturally, the other members of the team will have to pull their own weight if the club has any illusions of finishing first. But, there is little doubt in O'Sullivan's mind that they can win the whole thing. 
"I know we can win this tourna­ment, whether we do or not of course, remains to be seen. Look­ing at it realistically, I would be happy with at least a top three placement. That would be a real compliment for the team." 
In the slam dunk contest, Peters used an air toss-bounce-slam move to please not only the judges but the crowd for the win. Despite his lack of size, David Rivers used im­pressive leaping ability to impress above the rim for second place. Pete Hebert finished third with a solid array of slams. 
At the nine foot level, Buscher twirled through a 360-degree leap from the boards to take first. Mike Shimota placed second and Mike Moore third to round out the short man's division. Unfortunately, the crowd was appeased by only one baseline slam by Ken Barlow, as both Barlow and Donald Royal declined the cheers of the gallery. 

APPhoto

NBA playoff action 
Los Angeles Lakers Earvin "Magic" Johnson (32) last night, 114-94. The Utah Jazz stayed alive in attempts to pass the ball as San Antonio Spurs the playoffs by virtue of their 100-98 win over the Alvin Robertson (21) interferes in an earlier Dallas Mavericks, who lead the series 2-1. playoff game. The Lakers eliminated the Spurs 



THURSDAY 

at the Alumm Semor Club Come out and celebrate An Tostal as The Club has specu:~ls with An Tostal Mugs111 
FRIDAY [!!!}{§?tfll!!!jjjl,/j7!7){§?{//j!!@l./£!71{§?{%ft[jjjl That's rightll Tomorrow mght. is really spec1al at the Club See Tomorrow's 
ad for the translation and Good Trmes' 


FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1089 239-7521 
.. 

---~--~----~-­
~--------------------~------· -------­
~~~C3L~-----------------------------------------T_h_u_rs_d_ay•'•A•p•r-il_2_4_,_t9_8_6
___P_a_ge--11 


Bloom County 
~00 Wffl£ J./5f PllhRIM5, Vlf?mfl& A(:d)fv~... 6RI~N6 A00 Of ClfftR, 10 ~ 600RJS VOOFU~ /1 , • / I ~/l 
f-I£"LL01 IS rntS PANICL 0 'sHeA. 24-A$5 o,: 'J4 ? IT IJ? 'WELL HE"U.O SiR, MY NAME" IS ZETO M<.SftlSH 
AND tM PARTICIPATIN6 IN NOTI<E ~ME'S Fl-t:lNc·A· 
11-tJN' •• 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Hansoms 5 Launched 9 Venerable monk 1-:-:-+--+--+­
13 Taj Mahal site 14 Deere 
implements 16 Russ. sea 17 Risking 20 Pullet product 21 Coarse 22 Actress Dahl 23 Canape paste 24 Camembert kin 25 Ridicules 28 Certain desks 32 Jet jockey 33 Gets one's 
dander up 34 Baptist bench 35 Eager 36-daddy 37 Sage 38 Gun a motor 39 Profound sleep 40 Transport for 
Uncas 41 More torrid 43 Retard 44 Distinctive 45 What storm 
clouds do 46 Marked down 49 Trunk spare 50 Sticky stuff 53 Risky wager 
type 56 Wicked 57 Evergreen 
decorations 58 Assert 59 Satisfy 60 Spud buds 61 Roll call word 
DOWN 1 Puck's target 2 Excited 3 Ship's lock-up 4 Simeon or 
Clemente 5 Gushes forth 6 Give the slip 7 Be mindful of 8 Pair 9 Tallchief's 
forte 

The Student Activities presents. 
o+ 
"" 
c" 
Please no food or drink in auditorium. 
If YOI/ Me/IN $1/E, Hf~ /1/J(}(/f W HIIV/'iJlle..IC!m 5UKGEI?Y 
1/NP 11£/?.t'S II 
Pf?lffJf IN 
Wf1H HIM. 
""' 
WE: 'RE" 1'St<.IN6 fVR CCN­TRI9JTION5 R:lR ••• E"l<CUS"£ ME~ ••• 
NO, THE: MaVlO:Y HElPS CF!="S£T TI-le COST Oi= •• , 
1986 Tnbune Media Serv1ces. Inc. All R1ghts Reserved 
10 Pa. port 11 Curse 12 North Sea 
feeder 15 Snappish one 18 Allow 19 Seed coverings 23 Stir to action 24 Clayey 25 Mast and boom 26 Afr. cat 27 Oil-producing 
fruit 28 Severity 29 Express 
beliefs 30 Change in 
Chihuahua 31 Saccharine 33 Madras money 36 Evening 42 Fit for 49 Salver 
affairs plowing 50 Proffer 37 Election 43 Opposite 51 Lulu 
district 45 Char 52 Grimm monster 39 Trivial 46 Pindar works 54 Be obligated 40 Condiment 47 Bright star 55 Cry of satis· 
container 48 Clubs e.g. faction 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
UJr<.{l, flOI'I'T ttr 
I7111NK 
THIS {l()(Jfi/S llf"H€/STPH/lJT.? STCVe r)
I 
Cf?CIIIK ... 11£ PrXJf(/5 /le5GI?.VE:5 
\ ­
15/IN MORe t?£SI'Gtr 111He:t5r. 1HIIN 1HRT; PONT YW?
\ 
\ 

NOW HOLD ON! 'NJ40 ARE YiJU CALi..IN6 !NStNC£Rc?f 
, • , I DO TOO CAI<E" ••• friHAr? mAT 5 RIDIC.V••• f/E"LLO? HELLO i' 
l-IE" .5AIDTHAr HE t</\¥)W5 I M 
DNL't' [)otNo TI-llS fUR THe 
FREE R;O[) AND If: r 
WEHt'" TRUL'I CoNCERNt::t> 
r WOUt.D HAVE: NE"VER l...ET 8AI>IN BECOME"AGIIiL-:i ~­




r Student Activities Board presents 
SUMMER of '42 
Wednesday, April23 Thursday, April 24 
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 pm Engineering Auditorium $1.00 
Please no food or drink In auditorium. 

S~orts 
Bookstore marked by intense play, Peters, Buscher best slam dunkers 
Fugitive Guys, 21-8. Steve Tracey, 5-of-11 with nine rebounds, and Greg Dingens, 5-of-8 with 10 re­bounds dominated the boards, while the Fugitive Guys could not find the shooting mark, going 8-of­39 from the outside. 
No team has demonstrated shooting prowess quite like WBBS with Ed Smerciak in the tourna­ment characterized by inside play. WBBS shot 21-of-36 as a team with Kenny Scheurman was the WBBS high man with 6-of-9 in a quickly played contest which took 25 minutes. 
Lee's BBQ Roundhouse grilled Shysters, 21-14, as Jim Dolan went 5-of-9 and Tom Antonini pulled down five rebounds. Shyster Dave Corrigan did the bulk of the shooting for his team, going 6-of­15. 
Leone's Stallions won easily against Unidentified Grace Defenders, 21-10. Stallion players Bill Sullivan, 6-of-ll and five re­bounds, and John Murdo, 4-of-6, paced the scoring as Mike O'Grady pulled down seven boards. The Defenders went 10-of-49 with Steve Takach taking a game high eight re­bounds. 
see BOOKSTORE, page 10 
Thursday, April 24, 1986 -page 12 

David Rivers sky-walked to second place in the slam dunk contest held at the Bookstore courts yesterday. In Sweet Sixteen Bookstore XV action, The Embarassing Stains earned a hard­fought victory over Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamers. Mike Szymanski details the games at left. 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Bookstore XV Sweet Sixteen offered some intense battles yester­day as survival of the fittest nar­rowed the field to eight teams. The Bookstore courts also witnessed the high-flying slam dunk competition, producing some surprises with Jeff Peters garnering the 10-foot category, and John Buscher slam­ming for first from nine feet. 
With the advent of referees for the third day, perhaps the most fervently contested game was The Embarrassing Stains' 21-18 victory over Mr. Coffey and the Non­Dairy Creamers. 
Tim Kempton's 9-of-21 with 12 rebounds, and Mike Kelly's II re­bounds for the Stains overpowered Creamers' big men Pete Hebert and Eric J anowsky in a highly physical game. Milt Jackson, 6-of-15, and Dave McGuffey, 7-of-20, both gave fine performances in the los­ing effort. 
Tequila White Lightning outlasted a strong second half rally to defeat Tofu Chaka Khan, 21-16. Key free throw shooting and defen­sive play by Sean Cullinan, 8-of-14, in the stretch sealed the victory. Tequila's Chris Nanni turned in a strong game, shooting 6-of-13. Tofu had its problems from the field as Bill ZadeH went 1-of-10, and James Welch shot 2-of-10. 
"Tofu played well together," said Nanni, "but we can play better than we did today. Leone's Stallions (Tofu's next opponent) is bigger than us, but we will stick to our running game." 
Let's Go Crazy kept its wits while Port-a-Pit played out of control 

Bookstore Basketball 
XV 
resulting in a Crazy 21-17 victory. Crazy man Chris Perozek was the key performer shooting 5-of-9. Pit players Joe Price, 4-of-15, and Cedric Figaro, 0-of-6, were off, as Pit shot 13-of-49 from the field. 
"It was a very physical game in­side, we like to run but were hindered by injuries," said Crazy guard Carlton West. "We will need a solid effort against the Fun Bunch in our next game." 
The Fun Bunch Finale showed its intent on repeating as champions, downing Bud Melmon and the 

Fun Bunch Finale 
4/25 BK9 6:00 -~ 
Let's Go Crazy 4/23 ST6 6:15 Let's Go Crazy Port-A-Pit 

Tequil;~ White _u_gh_t_ni_n_g----,Tequila White 
4/23 BK9 5:00 Tofu Chaka Khan  Lightning 4/25 BK10 6:00  
Unidentified Grace Defenders 4/23 ST1 5:00  Leone's Stallions  

Down to the Exciting Eight 
Roundhouse. 

L-'------­
Champion
Leone's Stallions Shysters 
4/27 ST1 3:00 Source: Sports Department Observer Graphic 
Much More Much More Manhood Manhood ~23ST1~15 
4/25 BK10 5:00 Keenan Inmates 11 
4 Fags and aZambie WBBSwith Ed
4/26 4/23 BK 10 5:00 
Smieciak ST1 
WBBS with Ed Smieciak 5:00 
Mr. Coffey and the The Embarassing Non-Dairy Creamers Stains 4/23 ST3 6:15 
.------!TheEmbarassing 4/25 BK9 5:00 Stains 
The Lee's BBQ Roundhouse The Lee's BBQ 
4/23 BK10 6:15 

Irish offensive linemen feature potential talent 
By MARTY BURNS and MARTY STRASEN 
Assistant Sports Editors 
This spring the Notre Dame of­fense has really shown something different. And in more ways than just an occasional option pitch or flanker reverse. 
Gone are Allen Pinkett, Tim Scannell, Ron Plantz, Tom Doerger and Mike Perrino. Who's in, however, is still anybody's guess 
Spring ,Football 
'86 

as the 20-practice spnng season winds down to its final two ses­sions. 
In fact, the only thing that's cer­tain right now for line coaches Tony Yelovich and George Stewart and running back coach Mike Stock is that they have a crop of in­experienced players with the poten­tial to exceed anybody's expecta­tions. 
Here, then, is an update on the status of the offensive line and backfield as it stands right now on the spring season. 
offensive line 
An offensive line is supposed to create huge holes, but not the type that veterans Scannell, Plantz, Doerger, and Perrino made with their impending graduations. For­tunately for the Irish, veteran star­ting guard Shawn Heffern does return to add some stability in the trenches. 
This Joss of depth, along with the new blocking assignments required by head coach Lou Holtz' new of­fensive system, has opened things up at every other position on the line but the right guard slot manned by Heffern. Still, the unit as a whole has responded well to the challenge and the holes have begun to fill. 
"We lost a lot of guys from last year and (the coaches) put in a new system, so it was tough at the beginning," said Heffern. "But we're really not that inexperienced because the second string played a Jot last year. · 
"Also, this year the coaches are stressing the little things, hustling around the ball, enthusiasm. We're finally getting a solid grasp of the offense. We have a ways to go but I definitely feel we're getting close 
r 
to being able to play Michigan." 
Just who will be playing when the Irish face the Wolverines Sept. 13 is difficult to say at this stage. Besides Heffern, center Chuck Lanza, guards John Askin and Tom Freeman, and tackles Byron Spruell, Pete Rokich, and Tom Rehder have all played well. Among the other canqidates for playing time have been converted guard Tom McHugh at center, and Tom Riley, Joe Kelty, Dom Prin­ziavalli and Rick Michalak filling in the rest of the line. 
Veteran Joel Williams seems to have the reins on the tight end posi­tion, as his steady imporvement over the spring campaign allowed Rehder's move to tackle. Backing up Williams is emerging freshman Andy Heck, who has been battling it out with walk-on Mike Brennan and converted linebacker Kurt 
see FOOTBALL, page 8 


Veteran guard Shawn Heffern (52), pulling here to block for Hiawatha Francisco (33) in spring practice, will add some needed stability to an inex­perienced offensive line. With Hiawatha out with 







