

---------------------------------------------~~ --~~-----~--~-----­
Running -page 6 
VOL. XX, NO. 100 WEDNESDAYFEBRUARY26, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Students describe existence of drug culture at ND/SMC 
Marcos resigns, flees country; Aquino declared president 

.. 
Take this job and shovel it 
Two snow snovelers call it quits for a day after expected to be covered in white again today as clearing walks ofthe latest snowfall. The ground is there is a 90 percent chance ofmore snowfall. 


College's faculty supports divesting in new resolution 
By HEIDI CERNEKA 
News Staff 
A resolution calling for Saint Mary's to divest from companies who maintain holdings in South Africa was approved at yesterday's meeting of the College's Faculty Assembly. 
Initiated by the Saint Mary's Peacemakers, it was submitted to the faculty assembly with 31 signatures, more than the required number. 
The resolution which passed by a voiced-vote margin of the members present, reads in part: 
"Be it resolved that the Faculty Assembly recommend to the Board of Regents that they take steps to drop from our investment portfolio 
those  corporations  who  have  
holdings  in  South  Africa,  unless  
they  disinvest  from  their  South  

African holdings within six mon­ths." 
The assembly's resolution states that "continued investment in South Africa is inconsistent with the principles of the College," because apartheid "destroys the unity of the Black Family." 
The South African Council of Churches' call for disinvestment on July 4, 1985, was also cited in the 
resolution as a reason for divestiture. 
No estimate of how much Saint Mary's has invested in South Africa is available, according to Peter Smith, a member of Saint Mary's Peacemakers. "We can't even get a list of the corporations that Saint Mary's has invested in," he said. 
Joe Miller, another member of Peacemakers, pointed out that the issue is not how much the College has invested, but that "this invest­ment is a grave moral issue. As a Roman Catholic college, we have a responsibility to take a stand on this issue." 
The passed resolution will be sent to the office of the president. Ac­cording to the faculty governance manual, the president's office is the usual route to the Board of Regents. 

Dealer supplies campus demand 
By KEITH HARRISON,JR. 
Assistant News Editor 
Tony is a senior at Notre Dame. Like 
many other students, he works to earn a little 
spending money. But Tony's job is different 
than most other students'· he's a pusher. 
Tony (not his real name) claims he and his 
roommate are the major drug connections 
for Notre Dame students. 
"There are one or two other big ones that I 
know of, but most people come to me first," 
he said. "When we run out of stuff, we give 
the other guys business by sending them our 
customers. There is no competition between 
dealers." 
In an average week, between 20 and 50 
The Associated Press 
MANILA, Phillipines -Ferdi­nand E. Marcos fled the Phillipines after 20 years in power yesterday and Corazon Aquino, the new president, told her nation "the long agony is over." 
Marcos resigned the presidency last night, driven from his office by a military and civil rebellion. He was taken with his family in U.S. helicopters to Clark Air Force Base. Officials in Washington said they left for Guam shortly after 5 
a.m. yesterday. 
A state Department official said the Marcoses would remain in 
Guam "for some time," but he did not know their ultimate destina­tion. 
After Marcos left the riverside presidential palace, where he had been isolated for days bya revolu­tion Aquino called "people power," 
Filipinos swarmed into the streets for a carnival of joy. 
They created traffic jams at mid­night, chanting "Cory, Cory" for their champion, who had refused to concede afer the National Assembly declared Marcos the win­ner of a Feb. 7 election marred by violence and fraud. 
Aquino said in a brief television appearance early yesterday:"The people will buy marijuana from Tony and his roommate, netting them $200 profit. most people buy in small quantities, Tony said. 

Drug use atND/SMC 


"They'll buy a quarter ($25 package), or maybe just five or ten bucks worth. We also deal with about three guys who buy larger quantities and then sell it to other people." 
see PUSHER, page 4 
long agony is over. We are finally free, and we can be truly proud of , 
... ,

the unprecedented way in which we 
. :,...

achieved our freedom -with courage, with determination and most important, in peace." 
Aquino's military commander ordered soldiers to prevent looting or violence against Marcos loyalists. 
Increasing U.S. pressure combined with the military and civil revoly to end Marcos' rule. He fled to the 
U.S. air base 50 miles northwest of Manila barely nine hours after a last hurrah of being formally sworn in for another six-year term. 

User says drugs 'no problem' 
By ALEX PELTZER 
Copy Editor 
Despite the number of steps recently taken against the use of drugs at Notre Dame, at least one student does not view drugs as a problem on campus. 
"When you label something as a drug pro­blem, you find people who are getting high every day, missing classes. That doesn't hap­pen here," said Pete, a student who agreed to talk to a reporter on the condition a fic­ticious name be used. 
-Pete is a close friend of the students in­volved in the searches conducted by the Notre Dame Security of two rooms on the ninth floor of Flanner Hall. 
The investigations; which occured Feb. 3, began in Flanner and then Jed to the third floor of Keenan Hall. Because Security of­ficials refused to elaborate on the details, specifics about the incident are not clear. 
Pete · said several students have been suspended from the University because of the searches, mostly for reasons related to drugs. He said he questioned the tactic of campus security in the investigation. 
According to Pete, the friend involved in the incident told him six Security officers entered the room, one of whom was wearing a Roseland police department uniform. "They searched the room thoroughly. The 
see DRUGS, page 3 

Former President Ferdinand Marcos delivers a television address during his last days in power from the Malacanang Palace. Story at left. 

----------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1986-page 2 

Of Interest 
Seminars in Computing Techologies 
presents the Andrew System, Carnegie Mellon University's revolu­tionary computer system for advanced function workstations. This system, developed at Carnegie Mellon in a joint project with IBM, is expected to ''revolutionize the way colleges and universities deliver education." The speaker is Thomas W. Bajzek, director of the Computation Center at Carnegie Mellon, and he will be speak­ing this afternoon at 2 p.m. in Room 115 of the Computing Center. -The Observer 
Regina Coli, CSJ, will present "Reflections on Prayer and Action" tonight at 7 in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Chur­ch. This is the second in the Center For Social Concerns/Universi­ty Ministry Lenten Series. -The Observer 
Joe Murphy, editor-in-chief of The Observer, will be the guest on WVFI-AM's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10 to 
11. Lynne Strand will interview him on his new duties and the paper's current year and future. -The Observer 
Baldemar Velasquez, president of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee, will speak tonight at 7:30 in the Memorial Library Auditorium on F.L.O.C.'s recent labor agreement with Campbell's Soup Company and on future union plans. A victory celebration will follow at the Nazz, sponsored by the Notre Dame 
F.L.O.C. support group. -The Observer 
The women's Care Center Phone-a-thon con­tinues tonight from 6 until 9 in Room 213 of the Administration Building. New volunteers are welcome. -The Observer 
Professor William O'Rourke of the Notre Dame English department will present a lecture entitled, "Morphological Metaphors for the Short Story: Matters of Production, Reproduc­tion and Consumption," tomorrow afternoon at 4:15. The lecture will take place at the Wilson Commons. -The Observer 
Printmaker Rosie Bernardi will present a lecture tonight at 7:30 in Room 220 of the Arts Building. Bernardi, a Saint Mary's graduate, will speak on photo-etching. A reception will follow. -The Observer 
Toastmasters International will meet tonight at 8 in Room 223 of Hayes-Healy. New officers will be elected. All are invited. -The Observer 
A Mass will celebrate the recent F.L.O.C. farm­worker settlement. The Mass will take place this afternoon at 5:15 in the Center for Social Concerns. All are invited. -The Observer 
The problem of poverty will be addressed in a discussion tonight at 6 in the Center for Social Concerns. The discussion is being sponsored by the Women United for Justice and Peace. All are invfted. -The Observer 
The department of music at Notre Dame has an­nounced that the Sonneries Quintet concert has been cancelled because of illness. The concert was supposed to have taken place tonight at 8. -The Observer 

Weather 
Transfer if you want better weather. A 90 percent chance of snow today with ac­cumulations possible. Highs in the low 30s. A chance of flurries Wednesday night with lows in the upper teens. Mostly cloudy and colder tomorrow with highs in the mid 20s. 



n.., O"""'rv"'r ( t·s~ ~9'} l-~000) "publ"hed ~onda) throul(h fnda> t•xtept durull( exam and \'ac..·ation period~.Th~ O~rve-r i~ puhli~ht·d h~ the ~tuc..knt!'l c)f the..· I n1ver~••~ of Notre Dame and Saint ~aT}.. , Colle~ee ~uhM:nptions may be purchased tor 5 ~II pt•r year ( S.lO pc:"r ~meMer) by writing Th~ Obsf:rvrr. P 0 Hox t}. :'\iotre Dame:. lru.hana ~6~~6 
The Obse-rvrr •~ a memtxr nf Tht Associated Press. All reproduc.:uon nght' art· n:·srr\'ed 


Counter-culture at concert not bad -just different 
Just when you thought Notre Dame was a safe, quiet place to go to school, the punks take over Stepan Center. 
It was not a violent siege,-at least as far as takeovers go. The whole thing lasted only a couple of hours on Monday night, after which the punks left voluntarily and Stepan Center belonged to Domers once again. But it was great while it lasted. 
Everything started rather innocently. Noise magazine and WVFI-AM decided to co-sponsor a concert at Notre Dame to help break the February doldrums. The idea was to bring in a rock band which normally would not be asked to play here. They were not looking for a "Weird" AI Yankovic or a Tommy Shaw. They were looking for a band that plays the kind of music that many college students across the country call their own: punk rock. 
Things moved along smoothly enough. Concert organizers chose Die Kreusen, a Milwaukee band, to headline the show. Then two opening acts were selected and posters were hung around campus to spread the word. 
But there just are not htat many punk rock fans at Notre Dame, so campus ticket sales were slow. Faced with a financial nightmare, the concert organizers were saved by an unlikely group: punks from South Bend area high schools. 

It was quite a sight. High school kids with mohawks, spiked bracelets and ripped T -shirts far outnumbered the Notre Dame students in attendance. They slamdanced, pogoed and dove off the stage into the arms of their peers. And when the Sex Pistols' 1977 anthem "Anarchy in the U.K." blasted through­the speakers following the opening acts, most of the punks sang the words enthusiastically: 
I am the anti-Christ. I am an anarchist Don't know what I want But I know how to get it. I wanna destroy Passers-by. 
A Notre Dame Security officer, who spent a long evening searching for actual violence, looked on in disbelief. 
The only thing the punks did smash was the stereotype of the average South Bend youth. As part of South Bend beratement in general, some Notre Dame students have a tendency to picture ''townies" as culturally-deprived bikers with long hair. As Monday night proved, this stereotype is limited at best. 
But with local radio stations playing nothing but the most sterile pop music, how did these high school students discover punk rock? 

Focus On America's 
1 

Keith Harrison 
Assistant News Editor 


First, they were quick to point out that punks are anything but the norm at their respective schoools. In­stead, each school has its own small group of punks. 
Many of them said they often go to a place called The Total Experience, which is a club in Niles for those under 19 years of age. But word-of-mouth seem­ed to be the key to the number of punks in South Bend high schools. 
"I started the punk movement at Clay High School," one punk said proudly. "I cam here from California and brought a copy of the first Dead Ken­nedys album with me. People started borrowing it and then things kept going from there." 
A punk scene like that is glaringly absent at Notre Dame. Besides the obvious benefits for those who happen to like that kind of music, it could do wonders for eliminating popular misconceptions about punks. 
Monday night's concert put a whole new group of people on the Notre Dame campus, if only for a few hours. Continual interaction like this is vital if punks and Notre Dame students are to get past superficial differences in appearance and really get know each other. The punks were not better or worse than the average Notre Dame student -just different. 
And a little bit of diversity can make things a lot more interesting. 





~e=~~:~ 
Do you have a favorite band that you want to bring to Notre Dame? 
Help the 
dp 

March of Dimes 

The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1986-page 3 


NDunity 
Posters in LaFortune Student Center advertise Notre Dame's Unity Week. Continuing through Friday, the week is designed to promote ties between races at Notre Dame. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accent Editor Saint Mary's Executive Editor Sports Editor News Editor Viewpoint Editor ControUer Advertising Manager Photo Manager Systems Manager Production Manager Graphic Arts Manager 
Submit personal statement and resume to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Monday, March 3 3rd Floor Lafortune 
Seven tickets officially announce candidacy, begin SBP campaign 
By LYNNE R. STRAND and 
MARK PANKOWSKI 
StaffReporters 
Seven tickets for Notre Dame 
student body president and vice 
president were announced yester­
day by Ombudsman. 
Meanwhile, the Judicial council 
voted unanimously at last night's 
meeting to prohibit those council 
members manning election boxes 
from endorsing candidates. 
The presidential Tickets include 6 Michael Switek and Donato Monanaro, Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink, Thomas Grier and Steve Guenther, Bruce Lohman and James Crandall, John Walsh and Patrick Walsh, Michael Torkelson and John Kromer, Michael Millen and Sheila O'Con­nor. 
"It's great seeing so many people interested (in running for office)," said Maher Mouasher, Om­budsman personnel and legal af­fairs officer. 
Elections for student body presi­dent and vice president will be held Tuesday, March 4. Campaigning started this morning at 12:01 a.m. 

Drugs 
continuedfrom page 1 
police made a body search of the guys. They kept asking, 'Where is it, where did you hide it?' " 
Pete said the search did not pro­duce any important evidence, but the suspected students were taken to the Security office anyway. There, according to Pete, they were handed a paper on which were printed their rights. 
"I look at it as a scare tactic," Pete said. "They caught him with nothing." 
The next day, when the students met with John Goldrick, associate vice president of residence life, Pete said his friends were "severely ques­tioned about a very specific event of about a week before." He said Goldrick asked the students ques­tions about whether they had been involved with drugs before and, if so, what kind. 
"They were coerced into making a written statement," Pete said. "They admitted to Goldrick's ac-and will continue until 11:59 p.m. Monday. Endorsements from various student groups can only be solicited during this period. 
The seven tickets will debate each other at 6 p.m. Sunday in the Memorial Library Auditorium. The debate will last one to two hours, said Mouasher. Members of 
The  Observer,  Scholastic  and  
WVFI-AM will question the  can­ 
didates.  

"It'll be great if there's a good turnout," said Mouasher. "It (the debate) should really help the students to pick out their can­didate." 
According to Mouasher, Om­budsman doesn't "expect any major problems" with campaign rule violations like those that occurred last year with the Pat Browne and Joanie Cahill ticket. "We're look­ing for a good, clean election," he said. 
The rule prohibiting candidates from campaigning at meetings of student organizations even if they are members of that organization has been questioned by at least one candidate. The Student Senate is considering amending this rule. 
cusations, thinking they would get some sympathy." 
The events Goldrick questioned his friend about were very detailed, said Pete. Such detailed informa­tion could only be obtained by hav­ing a very close inside contact or by tapping the phones, he added. 
"These guys were low-key, very minor league," Pete said. "They were unfortunate and made an ex­ample of. 
"Do you really think that kicking someone out is going to help? These guys need real help," he said. 
Pete said he thought the Notre Dame administration and parents of students here are very uneducated about drugs. 
''The low volume of marijuana use is no more a problem at Notre Dame than alcohol. Kicking them (drug violators) out is an easy way of avoiding the issue," he said. 
"I know alot of people who smoke pot, but not one of them abuses it by smoking every day. The ones I know who smoke are very responsible people. My friend who got kicked out was having his best semester ever." 

SENIOR CLASS TRIP '87 Attention Juniors!I 
Applications are now available for Chairman of the 1987 Senior Class Trip 
Pick up applications in Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Deadlinefor applying is Friday, February 28, J986 
According to Mouasher, Om­budsman "has no problem with the rule." 
In other election-related matters, the Judicial Council voted to pro­hibit council members from all in­volvement with the election pro­cess, including campaigning and manning the ballot boxes. 
The amendment also applies to Judicial Board members. 
In addition, the amendment states that if a council or board member is a candidate for a student government position, the council "recommends that such individuals remove themselves from any par­ticipation in the conduction of elec­tions with regards to Judicial Council's or Judicial Board duties thereof." 
Besides student body president and vice president elections, students are scheduled to vote March 4 on a referendum calling for the University to divest from companies doing business in South Africa and possibly a new student government constitution. 
All undergraduates are eligible to vote. 
Another person involved in the drug scene and a user himself talk­ed to The Observer using the name Max. he said while it is relatively easy to obtain a variety of drugs on or around the campus -including cocaine, marijuana and mushrooms -he still does not con­sider it a problem. 
He said a person would have to have contacts in order to buy drugs. "There are certain things to do, ways of acting. You really don't get in unless you know someone." 
He explained that he got his con­tacts while he was a sophomore, through an upperclassman friend. 
"It was recreational for me," Max said. "Whenever we felt like it he'd go get it and sometimes I'd go with him. That's how I got my con­tacts. It is comparable to a beer run." 
He said most drug deals are done off campus. "It's not smart to deal from campus. That (Security crackdowns) has been happening every year," said Max. 
He also said he didn't know of any big dealers who attend Notre Dame. ''There might be," he said, "but you would have to deal yourself to find out." 
Max said the effects of drugs on students varies, depending on the type of drugs and the personality of the individual. 
"If you view it (drug use) as alcohol, it affects your lifestyle as much as if you party (with alcohol) on weekends. It depends on how much you do it. 
"No big timer (user) would be able to survive at Notre Dame," said Max. 

,-------------1 
I FREE! I
I 

REGUlAR RAXe 1 1WITH PURCHASE OF I I&EGUIAR FRIES ANDI
1
I 

MEDIUM DRINK I 
IOur famous Rax roast beef, sliced IIthin, piled high, and served on a I lsleaame-llli!4!d roll . 
....... -ntc--..onlorine-Ono I 
1_. 
per ..,_ per .,.I. Not ..lid In combinldon I with ony olhor flax olfor. Ollor good ol perlicipoling 1IRu Rollllluronlo. V20 coni a.t\ -.,liOn .....,._
l•l985 flax Rnraunonlo, nc.  I  
II·  ·-1 I  
I  I  

I I
'--------------' 
The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1986-page 4 



HPC disapproves of new amendment 

By ANN MARIE DURNING 
News Staff 

The Hall Presidents' Council continued to express its dissatisfac­tion with the proposed constitution during last night's meeting, declin­ing to ratify it or propose any amendments. 
HPC Chairman Kevin Howard denounced last week's decision of the Senate granting HPC the con­stitutional power to propose amendments as an "empty conces­sion." 
The proposed constitution would grant the power to ratify amend­ments only to the Senate and the student body. Under its provisions, the Senate could propose and ratify an amendment by itself, while the HPC would have only the power to propose amendments. 
The present constitution states that proposals for amendments can originate from the Senate, the HPC or the students and become adopted if accepted by either of the groups which did not propose it. 
HPC members reiterated their position that a check of the Senate's power to amend was necessary in the constitution. 
However, Vince Willjs, member of the Senate CORE Committee on Restructuring, cautioned, "The document as we wrote it has been compromised enough." 
Steve Kern, HPC representative to the Senate, said "The con­stitution will now go to the students (in the form that) the Senate passed it and the HPC rejected it." 
The HPC did not ratify or vote on any amendments to the propos­ed constitution. Kern attempted to generate discussion on possible amendments to the proposed con­stitution, but the other members ex­pressed little or no interest in them. 
Computer center opens 
The new computer center at Saint Mary's opened yesterday in the basement of LeMans. Freshman Jill Verdin bangs on the keys of one of the new machines in the center. 

Pusher 

continuedfrom page 1 
Finding customers is the least of Tony's problems. "We never have to call anyone," he said. "They come to us. The phone and the doorbell are going 24 hours a day. It's like Grand Central Station around here." 
Wednesday through Saturday is the peak business period. "Sometimes I can't wait for Sunday so we can take the phone off the hook, lock the door , and relax with some T.V.," he said. 
Tony, who lives off-campus, estimated that 60 percent of his customers live on campus. "There are a fair amount of people that do (use drugs), more than most people would think. We do have some local customers, but at least 90 per­cent are students." 
Most of these people, however , are not drug abusers, Tony said. 
"Most people do it responsibly. I hang out with pre-meds and engineers who do drugs, and they still have good grades," he said. 
''They look at it as a way to relax, just like having a beer, " he said. 
"'When it's used responsibly, I'm for it all the way." 
Only a few customers are women, Tony said. "A fair number do come with guys they know who are buying. I think they might be embarrassed to buy for themselves." Of the women he deals with, only two are from Saint Mary's, Tony said. 
Tony has been involoved with 
0 Holy St. Jude apoatle and martyr great In virtue and rich In miracles near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful In­tercessor of all who Invoke your special patronage In time of need. To you have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg whom Gee~ has ·given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me In my pre­sent and urgent petition, l~n return I promise to make yQ.Ir name known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publications must be promis­ed. Pray for us and all who In­voke your aid -Amen 
Th1s novena hos never been known IC 1011 THANK YOU ST JUDE 

drug trafficking since his 
freshman year. Because he comes from Michiana and had pro-. per connections, Tony was a valuable asset for his friends who were looking for marijuana. This continued until the end of the first semester of his sophomore year. Then Tony and his roomate moved up to the big leagues. 
They needed someone who could supply large quantities of mari­juana on a regular basis and Tony's roomate knew who could do the job. A friend of his at another college buys marijuana in 50­pound bales. So for the last two years, this friend has been Tony's supplier. 
"We pay $850 for a pound," Tony said. "It's worth it. · We get really high quality stuff, and it's always in demand. Actually, we can't get a hold of enough." 
Tony and his roomate only sell marijuana now. At one time, they also sold cocaine and psilocybin, a natural psychadelic commonly known as mushrooms. "We quit selling •coke and 'shrooms be cause there's a bigger market and more stable connections for weed." 
As far as the law is concerned, Tony said he has never been caught dealing and he has not even been in­volved in any closecalls. 
"We do take a lot of precautions, " he said. "We will only sell to friends or people with a reference. If we see someone we don't recognize at the door, we don't let them in." 
He wasn't always that lucky, however. As a freshman , Tony was caugr• smoking marijuana with some _.ner guys. Instead of turning the case over to the hall rec­tor, the resident assistant let Tony and his buddies off with a warning. 
"The R.A. was pretty cool," Tony said. "He told us he had done it (smoked marijuana) back in high school. Maybe that's why he let us go." 
Tony uses marijuana on what he called a regular basis: once every two to three days. Other drugs, he said, are for special occasions only. "I will do coke or 'shrooms, but on­ly every few months. Weed is the only drug I use often." 
According to Tony, there is a drug culture at Notre Dame. "Yeah, but I would call it a sub­culture instead. We don't try to· sit around and look like hippies in the 80s. 
''For us, pot is a good time, just like drinking beer," he said. 




COTILLION 


../J ~ lJjdiMJAt4 ; d, fuda9J }(fJJI.(.It_ 

SUBSCRIPTIO..: $14ic.OOPLE.-• DINI~G ( IU\t-AC.ING 
$5'/COUPLE.--OAACING DN&..V 
TICK,TS AVAilABLE J:oo-s:oo IN SOPHOMORE ClASS OFF,CE • , , , 
MON~Y FE&.2Lt·MON~Y MM3 
CORRECTION: S.A.B. Positions 
The advertisement for applications for SAB Board Manager, General Business Manager, and Controller which ran Monday, Feb. 24 was Incorrect. The due date for the applications is NOT Feb. 27. 
The due date has already passed. 

Queen's Castle &The Knights $5 student $8.50 complet 
cut style 

AWAY.FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women Included tool 
We aleo featnre the Ro"al Bronze Suntanning Ceatar See a tan In aalnntee ..• Not Houre lronw &: St. Road 23 (Acrou From M•rtln'el 


CAREER DAY '•DETROIT 
Thurs. March 6th 
WHO: Anyone interested in *accounting *Advertising*Finance *Law *Public Relations 
WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum &find out what goes on in THE REAL WORLD 
COST: $15.00 (includes trans., hotel & dinner) Sponsored by the Alumni Association 
EN: Bus leaves Wed. 7:00pm return Thur. 11om 
···~·············


PLICATIONS: Only 30 openings! (first come, first serve) 
DUE: Friday, Feb. 28 
Alumni Office 2ndfloor Ad. bldg.

AVAILABLE IN 
also 132 Hayes-Healy 


View~_o__i_n__t__________
w_e_d_ne-sd....ay_,_Fe-br_u_ary.._2_6_,1-98_6_-P._a...ge-5 


Attitude toward minorities should be amended 
Although there are "eight million stories in the naked city," there are as many stories here at Notre Dame as there are students. Unfor­tunately, there are usually stories ofa negative tone when they are told by the black students on the campus regarding their experiences here. These stories range from black males being constantly asked for identification by security to black professors virtually becom­ing extinct here to black females being second-guessed about their academic ability. 
Carleton West 
guest column 
It is the latter story which I have been exposed to oflate, and it has me very alarmed. My example case regards a female student from Louisiana who almost had her academic license involuntarily revoked by an ad­ministrator. She was dropped from some of her science courses without her consent be­cause she would not agree to go to psyc­hological services! This same administrator has been mentioned to me repeatedly by ot­her females for his negative attitude toward their academic performance. It is very true these students needed guidance because of their low grades; however, they did not need to be told that they were simply torturing themselves by sticking with their scientific majors. 
I felt it my duty to let these and all other students being denied support from ad­ministrators or faculty know that negative ad­ministrators in the sciences are not looking out for your benefit, but they are trying to preserve certain statistics at your expense. The statistics to which I refer consist ofNotre Dame's high acceptance rate for pre-med stu­dents. These prestigious numbers are a large magnate for luring high school students who are talented in the sciences as well as medical schools who feel that they can depend on Notre Dame to provide students with good 

grade point averages as recruits. 
I feel that the University should not com­
promise the quality of the science or pre­
professional prgrams, but there should be 
some realistic changes made to help minority 
students help themselves. First, all incoming 
freshman should be told in advance ofthe pos­
sible defiences in their high schools curricula 
by beginning of their pre-freshman summer. 
This will allow these students to take some 
courses in preparation for the upcoming 
semester, or it will allow them time to con­
sider alternatives. Second, advisors should be 
more sensitive to the aspirations of the 
minority student. By this I mean that advisors 
should not discourage a student from a career 
for which he or she has so diligently fought, 
but should instead use all resources, no matter 
how unconventional or unusual to help the students attain their goal. Third, University ad­ministrators must realize minority students usually have to fulfill more adult roles than ot­her students during their pre-collegiate years. This means they arc not used to being treated like children in the manner that this university 
treats the majority of its students. Finally, 
there must be a realization by the administra­
tion as there already has been by many of the 
students that black faculty is dwindling and 
black administrators are virtually nonexistent. 
This creates an uncomfortable atmosphere for 
the minority student who is faced with a situa­
tion of having few role models and no one to 
look out for his interest in the administration 
building. 
Obviously, the changes suggested above will aid not only minorities but all students. These changes could bring happy endings to the numerous stories being told currently by minority students, and future students as well. But there is little hope for positive stories to be realized here until there Is an attitude change by the administrators who come into 
constant contact with the minority students and students in general. 
Carleton West is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. 
Major FLOC victory ends the Campbell's boycott 
On behalfofthe Notre Dame FLOC Support group, we arc plea.<ied to announce a major victory for fllrmworkers. On Feb. 21, 1986, the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (based in Toledo, Ohio) signed an agreement with Michigan and Ohio tomato and cucumber farmers and the Campbell's Soup Company. This agreement ends a seven-year national boycott of Campbell's products. We at Notre Dame endorsed this boycott for six years. 
Amelia M. Munoz guest column 
Just wages, working and living conditions were FLOCs main goal in organizing midwes­tern farmworkcrs. In 1978, 2,300 migrant farmworkers walked off tomato farms in protest oftheir unjust living and working con­ditions. This initial action led to the seven­year national boycott ofCampbell's products. 

Something new 
Viewpoint would like to oc­cassionally highlight quotes &om faculty members, stu­dents and readers. So if you or someone you know says something intellectually stimulating, brlllandy funny orclearly controversial, send the quote to Viewpoint. 
Farmworkers chose to boycott against Campbell's rather than strike against the farmers because of the corporation's control over the industry. Midwestern farmers run small operations whose produce is bought by the Campbell's corporation. Campbell's set the prices for harvested products and provided the seeds, pesticides and instruc­tions for use on the farms. In turn, farmers paid their workers according to what they received from Campbell's. What the farmworkers received from this arrangement was a 12.50 per hour average wage and third­world living conditions. 
Campbell's refused to include a farmworkers' union (FLOC) in negotiations to set prices for crops and terms for planting with the farmers. Campbell's claimed they did not employ farmworkers. The company recommended that FLOC deal with their employers, the farmers. FLOC recognized that taking action against the farmers would not help their cause. The farmers were the middle .>eople. For workers to have their demands met, they would have to take direct action against the Campbell's company. As men­tioned previously, the price that Campbell's set for the farmers' crops determined the wage that the farmers' paid their workers. Sub­sequently, FLOC called for a nation-wide boycott ofall Campbell's products in 1979. 
Throughout the seven-year boycott, farmworkers perservered and gained support from many church and community groups. Notre Dame was the first university to lend its support. In 1980, a group of students or­ganized the Notre Dame FLOC Support group. They petitioned a student referendum calling for an official University boycott of Campbell's products. The Notre Dame stu­dents voted in favor ofthe boycott. 

The administration and University Food Services complied with this referendum. They pulled all Campbell's products off the shelves at the Huddle and terminated the use of Campbell's products in both dining halls and all dormitory foodsales. The referendum passed again in 1983. Thanks to last Friday's agreement there will be no need for further referendums on the boycott. The boycott is 
over! 
The terms of the agreement Include: 
• 
Union recognition. 

• 
Wage increases ( S4.50/hr). 

• 
Insurance benefits. 

• 
One paid holiday. 

• 
Paid union representatives. 

• 
Committees to change or improve pes­ticide programs, housing, health care and safety, daycare programs, and alternatives to sharecropping. 

• 
Compensation of up to $2,000 for strikers. 


For the first time in history, midwestern migrant fllrmworkcrs can decide their futures. Our support helped make this dream a reality. To the students, administration and the entire Notre Dame community, thank you. 
We voted to boycott lettuce and grapes in support ofthe United Farmworkers in Califor­nia and contributed to that success. We also voted to boycott Nestle products in solidarity with third-world mothers and met with success. Now our Campbell's boycott has once again reached a victory. Notre Dame's determined action to reach justice made a dif­ference. 
Our initial efforts helped inspire other Cat­holic organizations to endorse the FLOC boycott. These organizations include the Na­tional Conference of Catholic Charities and the Ohio Catholic Bishops, among others. A special thanks to Reverend Monsignor George Higgins who was dedicated to the struRglc 

from the beginning. Thanks toJohn T. Dunlop and the rest of his commission for their successful arbitration. We applaud the farmers, Campbell's Soup Company and its subsidiary, Vlassic pickles, for their present consideration to farmworkers. 
A very special thanks to the students of 1979 and 1980 who brought this issue to the attention ofthe Notre Dame community. And dual appreciation to the Notre Dame FLOC support group of 1983 for continuing the struggle and all ofthose who have contributed throughout the years to this victory. United, we made a dlffcrance. SI SE PUEDE! 
Amelia M. Munoz co-authored this column with Miguel G. Mendivil andPatrick ]. Markey. They are members of the Notre 
Dame FLOC support group. 

Correction 
Due to a copy editing error, a name was misspelled in yesterday's column entitl­ed "Black alumni found need for real changes at Notre Dame." The correct spelling of the author's name is Martin Rodgers. 
Quote of the day 
"Doubt is not the op­posite of faith; it is one element offaith." 
Paul Tillicb (1886-1965) "Dynamics ofFaith" 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch 
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
Tt,e Observer 15 the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame dulac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager......................... Mark B. Johnson 
adm1n1strat1on of 811her 1nSt1tut1on. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager....................... John A. Mennell 
Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion ol a majonty ol the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy
tanes. leners and the 111Slde Column present the v1ews of thetr authors. Column space is 
Viewooint Editor. .. .. .............. ..... ....... Joe Murphy
ava1lable to all members ol the community and the free expreSSion of varying opinions on 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
campus. through leners. IS encouraged. 

Founded November 3, 1966' 





Accent 

Wednesday, February 26, 1986-page 6 
r Running: truth and consequences 
r 
r  
r  
~  KRISMURPHY features writer  function. Large muscles need large amounts ofthese substances so  Gore-tex is nice when it rains but  

r Spring is almost here. 
r You're saying "No it's not. It's still cold and l see snow." Well you're wrong. The calendar says late February, and in most normal places spring arrives some time in March. Notre Dame is not a normal place so it will probably be winter here until August but we'll ignore that fact and proceed with this article anyway. This is, by the way, an article about running. Some people say jogging. I say running. This is be­cause I'm a runner and very par­ticular about what I call this activity. Running means moving at a fairly consistent clip (it doesn't have to be incredibly fast all the time, just consistent. No stopping!) for an extended distance ( 5-l0) miles. That's probably a narrow view, but that's my definition of running. Since I'm writing the article I can call it what I want, right? In reality this is an article for joggers, or less enthusiastic run­ners, or people who just want to get in shape, or older people, or people who pass out playing golf. In other words this is an article to help those who would like to start running. I am an avid runner, having com­peted for various teams and clubs for the last five years in distances from a half-mile to ten miles, and so I feel qualified to offer a bit of advice to those just starting out. First ofall running can be many things. It can be a very rewarding, almost intoxicating experience when you learn to enjoy it. I don't believe in runner's high because it sounds like something that a bearded, granola-munching moun­tain man would say, but I do know that being in shape and working out hard can make you feel very relaxed and pretty happy with yourselftoo. This feeling can come while racing against other runners or just run­ning alone in the middle ofthe night. That's the good part. The bad part happens when you rush things or skip details. Running dumb leads to chronic injuries, exhaustion, and a lot ofwasted time. Following a set ofsimple and rather general in­structions will make the time you spend running very rewarding and probably one ofthe best parts of your day. Running along with rowing, biking, and swimming, is one ofthe best ways ofexercising. This is because it forces you to work your cardiovascular system (heart and lungs) by working out your big muscles. Big muscles include your quadriceps, hamstrings, and calves. Muscles need blood and oxygen to 
when you run you force your heart to continually supply your big muscles with blood for an extended amount oftime. 
This means that your.heart works very hard and thus must grow stronger. The same applies to the other muscles ofyour body. Ex­ercising them repetitively for a long time forces them to become stronger to meet your body's needs. When done properly and often, running yields excellent results in a relatively short time. You'll become stronger overall (not "bulk," just "definition," and don't worry girls, you won't turn into a skeleton unless you become obsessed.) 
So how do you get started? Well, first ofall, don't go out and buy a S75 pair of Nike's before you take a single step because ifyou don't like running, you've just wasted a lot of money. The first couple oftimes you go running (or jogging), wear your Keds or Reeboks or Tretorns. Contrary to popular beliefrunning slowly and for short periods (that means startingout) in shoes that don't have a price tag like the na­tional debt will not, I repeat not destroy your feet or your life. Ifyou do decide that you like running, then you can splurge and buy a pair ofrunning shoes. 
Look for shoes that are com­
fortable, stable, and suited to the 
kind ofterrain you be'll running on. 
Beyond that, different people have 
different weird feet and no advice 
from me can tell you exactly what 
shoes to buy. 
This is very important. After sittin~ on your rear end for 20 years, or just in a classroom for the afternoon, your muscles are tight. If you run without warming up you're going to be very uncomfortable and you're probably going to hurt your­selfsooner oflater, too. 
To avoid this try stretching and slow, easy running. Not everybody believes in stretching but most people do. It's a good way to tell your body to wake up. Stretch s I o w I y and for least ten counts on each muscle. After stretching, run slowly for awhile. When I ran with the Notre Dame Cross Country team this fall, Coach joe Piane had 
us run slowly for at least a half hour before we really started the workout. The best men on that team run 5 miles in less than 24 minutes so a half hour warm-up probably isn't for you. Some easy running before you start in earnest will definitely make you feel better. 
Clothing 
Not important. Don't listen to anyone who tells you that certain clothing is necessary for running. 
otherwise run in old sweats and even older shorts. That's one ofthe good things about running, you don't need a catcher's mitt or a driver, and you can do it at any time. 
How long to run 
I was never much for measuring 
distances. I run till I'm exhausted or 
for a certain amount oftime. I used 
to keep a distance log but I freaked 
out trying to better my mileage 
every week (only 49 miles! I must 
run one more!) and now I go to the 
track when I want distances. If 
you're just starting out run, for a 
specific amount oftime or a specific 
distance (not too long) so you learn 
not to give up halfway through. This 
will also give you a good feeling 
from setting a goal and keeping it. 
Whereto Run 
I have a bad habit. I like to run in 
traffic. I've run in New York City, 
Washington, D.C., and my 
hometown of Dayton, Ohio. Cars 
are abundant in all those places. 
Running on city streetscan be a lot 
offun but it can also be dangerous. I 
was running with a member of my 
high school cross country team 
when he got hit by a car. The driver 
wasn't looking and we were trying 
to race across an intersection. Don't 
be that stupid. When starting out, 
run around the lakes, on campus, in 
residential areas, or on the track. If 
you must run in traffic (which 
you'll have to when and ifyour 
distance increases) stay to the side, 
run against traffic, stay alert, and 
don't race cars. 

CooUngDown 
While you're running your heart rate will increase, your muscles will loosen, and you will sweat. When you stop, your body will instantly begin to cool down and tighten up. To prevent soreness or injury you should stretch again and jog slowly to let your body ease out ofits hyperactive state. This will make you more comfortable and enable you to run again without being too sore. 
This has been a pretty whirlwind crash course in running but it's enough for a basic beginning. Ifyou have the perseverance and the loyalty to keep at it, you'll get better quickly and you'lllearn more by experience. Running doesn't have to be a highly competitive or pain­ful sport (although some ofus like it that way). It can be an excellent way to relax and one ofthe best ways to lose weight and get in shape. It's simple too. Good luck 
starting out and congratulations in advance for doing something worthwile for your body. 
"'

,.+p 


Runners take advantage of the scenic routes around the Notre Dame campus to get in shape while enjoying the relatively warm weather. 
The Observer 
Wednesday, February 26, 1986 -page 7 

Sports Briefs 
In the NUL last night, the Washington Capitals outlasted Detroit to earn a 4-3 overtime victory over the Red Wings. In other games, Calgary beat St. Louis, 4-1, Toronto own­ed the New York Rangers, 7-3, and Boston defeated Quebe~.: oy a 7-4 score. -The Observer 
Trena Keys, senior forward for the Notre Dame women's basketball team, was named the North Star Conference 
player-of-the-week  for  her  performances in  Irish victories  last  
week. The award is th e th ird of the  season  for Keys.  - The  
Observer  

All Bengal Hooters must weigh in for the upcoming tournament today between 4 and 6:30 p.m. in the ACC Boxing Room. For more information call Ed Kelly at 234-7083. -The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club wm hold a meeting Monday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All current members and anyone interested in joining the club are asked to at­tend. For more information call Kevin Laracey at 283-1148. The Observer 
WVFI Sports, AM-64, will broadcast the NO­Butler women's basketball game tonight beginning at 7:20 with the "Tip-off pre-game show." Frank Mastro and Frank Pimental will handle the play-by-play. -The Observer 
NBAbans Richardson 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -New Jersey Nets guard Michael Ray Richardson was permently banned from the Na­tional Basketball Association yesterday after testing positive for cocaine, Commissioner David Stern said. 
Stern called it "a tragic day for Michael Ray Richardson, nothing less than the destruction by cocaine of a once-flourishing career." 
Because of technical pro­blems, Sports Wednesday does not appear in today's Observer. It will return next week. 
lht• fJhxt'rtt'' '\Ptfl' l).unc: otfiu· lut.llt'd ~~11 tht. tl11rd rloor of IJiorturh "'HH..Ic.·nt( c.·nh:r ..u.c.qll,c.ld'''licdJt.hcrrr'rn~lrtlllll)Jill until tpnl \1,•ndJ.\ thfi•H).!.h I raiJ\ I ht' f lh.q•rt·~·r .....11111 \1Jn ' ••tfrc.4. It •t .tit d ••n 1he.: 1turd tl• u •r 'If tiJgg.Lr ( ullt-gt.: <t. nil r .H c. t.'f'll"' l '·''''th d' tr~ •Ill I.! "'" p r11 11111 II " p rn \1, •n d.l\ thttllgh lnd.l\ lh.JdllfH t••r IH.'I d,l\ ll.i''illld' '' -'1 p111 \1\c.IJ''Itu.d' mu,thc:prc:pJnl t:llllc.r&npt·P·ltllttriH 111.111 c h.tq,:,tl"l''"'·nt .. pt·rft,l·th.tfJ\




Classifieds 
ll'r' t:r c.JJ\ 
NOTICES 
Typ1ng Avalt.blo 287--4062 
TYPING CAU.CHM 
U4-ftl7. 

IIUIINEUIXPREU.INC.
w.....,._...,. enc1 1yp1"' 
272...27 

DPUn TYPING HJMCE. CALl.. ....COKER. 2»-7001. 
Pii~"TYP"I"~Mi:··~·~··;~~ 
a.lllllona, ........ ...,.,.. 277-111111. 
ATIN:ITUDENn Dolor• Frande typing ..-.ice phone nurrber change 277-8131 
t!~~~~~~~cl 
ffl--4220. 
TYPING··;..Fiilt..Higii:QUiiiiiY•. c;;~· 287~ 
11257 
All you lntriP'd IOUII who Wllnt to go to PUfdue wil have 10 flnd another ride, be­ca.,. Genie and her beofle-moblle wil be hitting the high roed to Chicago thla weekend. 11112 mph or 10. Can an AMC do thll? Several cope aure thought 10. Maybe we"l be hitting the Hoollier high· WIIY1I again alter breal<. 
LOST/FOUND 
WIU THE PERSON WHO BORROWED SUPER CHIEF PLEASE RETURN IT TO 106KEENAN ORCALL3217. 
LOST: GOLD CLIP ON EARRING ON SOUTH QUAD. SENTIMENTAL VALUE FROM PALESTINE. REWARD• CALL 233-36611 
LOST! LOST I LOST! lloet my bkJe block· pack on the bool<tack In South Dining H .. on Tueeday. Feb. 18. I you found it. I MXJid app<ldate Hbeing returned. It ron· Iaine a broken S.nyol"lldlo, ai!C81, an old pair d gloY•. end _...., biology periodic magazl1111 ~caiiiTllin the fNiningut xt776. Thenklalot. 
................... 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR THURSDAY THE 20TH A TAN LONDON FOG WINTER COAT SIZE 42 LONG. CALL TERRY AT 1860 IF FOUND. 
Loll a brown hal preeuiNIIIy In the dining hal If found ple&l8 contect Mike at (X2516) 
-HEY YOU --Stealing tape~ from a party Ia major uncod. aor-lent ua thoM tapee and would Nke them block. H you have 1 guilty coneclence duftng thla lenten ~-jUit drop the tape~ in our mall-box... you know where waive. 
FOUND: SILVER CROSSATTHE ROCK FEB. lOTH. CALLX15111 TO CLAIM. 
FOUND: A pair olaufl111MMe al86 deye 
"Uftgraduaffon patty. Call Tim at 2530. 
.......... ....... 

HAS ANYONE SEEN A GOLD. TWIST 
PIERCED EARRING? May be between 
Ubrary, Zahm. and Llwie. L.,.t 1 month 
ago. PI-call3861. 
FOUND ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24 , A PAIR OF GREY RIMMED GLASSES OUT IN FRONT OF NIEWLAND SCIENCE BUILDING. CALL PAT WALSH AT 4199. 
LOST:amal blue guocl ooln­purM/keychaln belwMn Hurley and piiii<Jng lot ALL my ID Ia lnalde 10 pleMe call272·9781 II found or tum Into any toet and found. 
PI-be cool and return my ladl•" Belko gold watch! I loet It betwMn P.E. and North Dining Hal on Tu• (2/25) mor· ning. Call Ann at 4416. Thenklalot! 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 2876389. 
WANTED 
CAM·r;···COuNSELORS POSITION AT YMCA STORER CAMPS ON STONY LAKE NEAR JACKSON. MICHIGAN. CQ-ED, AGES 7-17. UNIQUE PROGRAMS: HORSES. AQUATICS. SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ann Wiedemann PHONE:283-2805. 
.............................. 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16.040.$511.230/yr. Now Hiring, C.. 1· 805-687-eooo Ext. R-9834 lor current flderlll Milt. 
Fiioe··;;;r·:z:· ;;··Rii:iefis.. iilee·i:iei:i···i~ 
Columbue. OH I OSU for Feb 28 • March 
1. Call Mike at 288·5355. 

,,...............,.. ........................ 
RIDE NEEDED TO N.E. OHIO ON 28 FEB OR 1 MAR CALL CHUCK AT 1968 
Need ride to ....... NYC ........ Ieavlng either Thura., 27 or Fri. 28. I wiH pay $$$$$$$$1! Call Scott·--4186 
I Buy car. Payupto$t,OOOIIICon1actAial 3155. 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO NW SUB­URBS FRI RETURN SUN.BOB 1751 
WANTED·=·· RIDE rO"''iNDV""'THiS 
WEEKEND. PLEASE CALL MARY KATE. 4174. 
OVERSEAS FEMALE NEEDS OFF· CAMPUS HOUSING. IF LOOKING FOR ROOMMATE NEXT YEAR CALLX4120. 
FOR SALE 
COO"d;;;i. typewriter and table. Wll 1811 oeparatllly or together. Call 1265. 
AIIIQA COMPUTER IYITEM 
512 KB Expandable to 8.5 MB. Superb 
color graphlca wtth CNer 4.000 colora. 
Spedal 25 percent dlacount for NO IIU· 
denta and faculty. •uttKATCOMPUTUI 
CENTDI 
287·3344 

....................................................... 
AIRLINE TICKET to Miami leaving Sooth Bend 7 a.m. M•ch 12 return ~ch 18. Clll616-64t-7372. 
........................... 
Ai",t~~-iicl.et to Mlamlleavtng South Bend 7 a.m. March 12. return March 18. c.. 616-641-7372. 
......................... 
CLUELEU ON CONCE,.-,.1?1 NO TIME TO COPY KOZAK"S DEFINI­
TIONS(II PAGES!) WELL, YOU"RE IN LUCKI FOR A LIMITED TIME ONLY-CONCEI'n TO QOI 12 Leave name and number with Wayne at 4010 or Ellen at 4571 
TICKETS 
....................................... 

Need 4 Dayton tix (atudent or GA). PI-call MillY Ellen at 3855 or 239­5303. Big$1 
TICKETS needed for DAYTON game-­GA or atudent-call 1539 
I NEED 2 DAYTON GAil$$$$! ALLEN 4245 Need 3 or 4 GAl for Dayton· March 8. BIH 3467 
.......................,.................... 
IAN DIEGO, CA. FOI'I EASTER 
.RIEAKII 
ROUNDTRIP TICKET-ONLY 200.0011 
CALL 1041 
WANTED:TICKETS FOR THE DAYTON GAME! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS. NO WHAMMIE. CALL RICK AT 1828. 
,.,,.......................................................... 
NEED 3 Dayton GA"a or atud. tix --carolyn 4042 
TURN DAYTON TICKETS INTO BEER VIA MONETARY UNITS. TERRY 237· 
9080 
NEED2DAYTONTIXGA'SorSTUDENT 
calf Brian at 288·5270 
............................................................. 
My entire hometown Ia coming to eee the 
lriah deatroy Dayton. I need 7 TIX (ltudent 
or GA) lor the lolklll II you have any tix 
give me a call at 2947!1 1\Jok for Mary. 
$$$ HELP! NEED 2 TO 4 GA"S FOR MARCH 8 DAYTON GAME. CALL CHRIS 3738 
.................................................... 
NEED ONE DAYTON TIX. CALL 284­4052 OR 284-4048. 
~--~Y';;··iid;~-~~-· iiiG"Miv:..lf you Clln halp, .,._. Cllll 214-4432. Th...... 
PERSONALS 
~-i~·by ~ ~~~ ii,i~id;;g·;;;·~;;;a 
that you might aomeday be h.,py. Un#l you mllkeroom In your Hie foraomeone aa lmportllnt ro you u your~elf, you wll •­wa~ be lonely andaearchlng andloet .. 
-Richard Bach. The.,.. Acrou F-ar 
The lecNif of finding aomeone to love ia fffll finding aomeone to Hke. -Richard Bach. 
The.,.. Acrou F-ar 
.......................................... 
Every conate/letion Ia buta gathering of diatant au,.. It Ia mere peflpeCUve that makN Belelgeuae a alar. Se«~ cloee enough ahe Ia a llfQing ,.._ A aphere of flaming hydro(len, ff It be .....,. wll dominate the eky and blot out 1111 the IN· aer ll(lhta. And auch a" fire wllluy 8(/ain, ""EW!hmaker hu a Hvlng Son.·· 
• calvin MINer. 
Thall..., 
...nny, 
I mlued you yellerday ... could I ln­ter811 you In IOITl8 atrawbarry ch8818Cake? 
C.n"t find the Bunny 
Putbug, We can"t do Frou Frou wtthout llrat llnlehlng the atrawbarry fr.,.ting . 
T.B. 
................................................................ 
OAJII HOUSE: COLD .EER & UQUOI'I. CAMY OUT TO ll A.M. U.S. ll1 N., 1 M.OCIC.IOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
YOUNG TIUoVELLEM NEW...ETTERI lndud81:800 no.; travel partner aervtce~eaturet on exotic OVI!IIaEAI budget travel, work. ltudyl Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, New Haven. CT. 06525 
FREE COUPONIIn the yellow.,..._ of the Cllmpua Teleph-DtNCtory. Uae thlfll today I 
laphom-laphom­
lkatl"l P.ny 
ThunlllltyFe1127 
l:lo-10:00pm 
Miranda. So that's where that's from. Ferdinand 

ND Club of Milw8Ukee invitee you to NO va MAJIIQUETTE IIMKETIIALL PARTY Saturday. M•ch 1 at Tumet'l Hall, 1034 
N. 41h, IICI'OU from Mllw8Ukee Arena. Game on Big Screen TV. If you have game tix, join u1 aft81W.,.da for huge bul­let with the team. Student tickets $10; in­cludes beveragea. Doora open at noon. 
SOPHOMOI'IE 
COTILLiON 
COTILLION 
COTIWON 
........................................... STOP UIING lEX AS A WEAPON 
Need rooma lor ~ation? Enjoy Bed "N Breaklutlnlovlllyh~.219-291·7153. 
Hoop Hyeteria ahlrta atil avallablelf! All alzea. Stop by Room 221 Stanford or call 2078/2089 
Hungry? c.lf YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5prn-12am Monday· Thuradlly; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-tam Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
I have to get to NYC lhll weekend. I .­a ride on Thura. 27 or Fri. 28. I wil pay $$$$1! PI-help me outt Call scon­4186 
............................................................ 
CHARMING, GOO[)..LOOKING Alumni Hal lreahmen oeeking dat• to lriah Wakelll AppUcationa can be obtained at 165 Alumni Hal. 
ST. PAT'S PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for lhe UNITED WAY I $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE KML 
2 MILE RELAY(the beet In the U.S.A.) Corvatulationa !II 2 MILE RELAY(going to win the N.C.A.A."I) YNh, that'a right Ill 2 MILE RELAY : John ""albino'" McNella, Rob ""Mr. Eugene" Noblee. Jell ""dropped from an airplane·· Wle Wle, and the fiVer famoua Jim "I got a new hair dew wery other day·· Tyler. Again, congratulationa from the cartoonlal TEX. 
................................................................ 
Need Rldera to Green Bay (a.k.a. Mar· quelte). BelwMn rid.,. aleo. Leaving Thura. and returning Sunday. If ln­tere~ted. C1111Uzat4161. 
IIAIIHAR SHALL CONQUER 
Chril, Dan, Jerry, and the whole wre~tling team: Good luck at Region•! Beth and Di 
SPRING BREAK BOSTON SPRING BREAK BOSTON SPRING BREAK BOS­TON Do8l anyone need two lntereeting people aa rid.,. on the Wily to BOSTON Fri. March 21 or Sat March 22? Wll ah.,.e gaa. of courae. Going to NEW YORK STATE via Albany. Synocuae, or Roch811er?, we"M ride along, too. P1­call386t. 
D• Krik, I would love more than anyth­Ing to go to your formal. Love. the Super Snorer 
................................. ,............................ .. 
WILD & WOOLLY, lmporta from Ecuador. Ill Floor LaFortune Atrium. Feb. 26-27, 9-5pm. 
................................. 
One more tlme...Midwaat deadl We go 
swimming. When the going gala tough, 
the sprinters get tut. OK, 1.2,3--Let"a go 
IIIahI 

Nolae ~Mg~~Zine and WVFI would Mke to thank eveeybody who CIIIM out to the Ole Kreuzen concert on Monday nfthL Drive Mlely, Ill de. 
CHARMING, GOOD-LOOKING Alumn1 Hal frelhmen 188king dataa to lriah Wake. Application• can be obtained at 165 Alumni H .. or call2258 anytime· 24 houraadayll 
I Love You ST. JUDE 
;.;~u;-·;;«·i;;·-eo·t.;;.;ooo· ;;;.. a tantalltlc 
J.P.W. Preeldent'a Dinner! Keep up the good work . 
Corby T ·ahirta and Corduory Hall For Sale Shlrta-$8 Hall·$10 $161or a pair Call3525 
Quote lor the day: Hey fNeryone, my car ia blowing up! 
Janglel. lhe Ia beautiful and ahe Ia cool. 'the hal! 2 from GO 
RAITAJAVA Come Hang out and drink aome collee with RASTA Tonight 9:30 downatalra In LaFatune 
....................................... 
R JAVA S T JAVA Tonight 9:30 downatalraln LaFortune 
Tom-Thla Ia our beloved aon In whom we are well pleued. Thanka lor JPW. It­Jullt Plain Wonderful! LCNe. Mama D and Dad 
hey CORKY nice WIPE OUT SURFS UP bul what about the aignll 
The Cellar Now Haa Compact Dlacalll 
ONLY 13.99 
We now have a fuM 181ection of Windham HlM jazz and c::IMIIcat workl. Why pay $17 for a CD? All of oura are$13.99 fNerydayl The Cellar LaFortune BaNment 
................................................................ 
MUDER MUDER MUDER MUDER MUDERII 
To my favorite acopeln Emll"a a.. Kim Ganiaont Looking good!! 
U. WINTER FUTIVALIII 
FEB. 24 -MAR. 1 CROBS-COUNTRY SKIING, BEACH PARTY. UNDERGRAD NITE 
................................................................ 
FREE CROSS-COUNTRY IIOINGIII THURSDAY. FEB. 27. NOTRE DAME GOLFCOURSE CLUBHOUSE, 6:00 • 9:00P.M. REFRESHMENTS. D.J.. FUN UNDER THE STARS!! I 
U. WINTER FUTIVAL .EACH 
PARTYIII PRE·SPRING BREAK BASH IN SOUTH DINING HALL, 9:00 • 1:00 A.M., LIVE BAND '"COLD DRINKS". NACHOS, FREE SUNGLASSES, BEACHBAI.LS, AND A TRIP FOR TWO TO FT. LAUDERDALE. COME DRESSED IN YOUR SWIMSUITS! 
U.UNDEIIGRAD. NIQHTIII WRAP UP THE WINTER FESTIVAL WITH FRIENDS AND FUN AT THE ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB. SATURDAY, MAR. 1, 9:00-1 :00 A.M., ADMISSION IS FREE 

Wadi... Thura ... Frl ... Dan Rather In Sioux 
F.... Sooth Dakola .... A logicalltep alter the Geneva Conference. C.tch the ac­tion! 
HELP! DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO INDY THIS WEEKEND. PLEASE CALL MARY KATE. 4174. 

DAVE MIKLOS turned 21 laat Friday. If you were too buay with your parenll to buy him a drink, do It now! 
ACTUALLY TEMPEIT IS REALLY ABOUT HOW THE DESIRE TO AC­QUIRE AND EXERCISE POWER OF· TEN LEADS TO IMMORAL AND DESTRUCTIVE ACTIONS. AIN'T THAT THE TRUTH 
.................................., GOODWILL PARTY WEAR YOUR NEW CLOTHES FROM GOODWILL TO THURSDAY NIGHT CLUB ON CORBY D• Kefly and JuNe. Thankl for making JPW din'* apeclal. We look forward to you aervlng ua again IOITlltime(Mar 15)1 Your table.32t Blland Frank 
WAI..L.ACE • CAN YOU BELIEVE IT TOOK THEM THIS LONG TO GET MY VALENTINE IN TO YOU. SOMEONE IS GOING TO HEAR ABOUT THIS. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY HONI GOOD LUCK ON YOUR TEST TODAY. LOVE, MAUREEN 
MARAUDER elllenda our appreciation to the NO lnemen wllo uved our Mv• mon. nita our falthlut fa,. from OLD COLLEGE, FARLEY, P.E. AUGUSTA HALL, LEWIS HALL.SORIN KEENAN HALL ALUMNI HALL MOREAU SEM. our apeclal ,_ thet at1anded al our ah~ at Senior bllr Old cctege and at lllapan -NOISE MAGAZINE thole ~utfful art end theo majorl (we love you) thank you and hope to eee you on our nelll louf date MARAUDER 
-,. lleth, lorry no vlllenllne ­1~111· You oould .-y I fOil IIlii .,__for 11-Cor ............) At 
--~llllldeupformy.,.. 
lion. eon.na on the --·
"-a...-11--your...., .... 
__,
........... and In Ohio. VIctory to my 
Y~..·;;;;:;_··;;,~;···~-;;g by ~mall Teylor about frlenda? You -now how It goee, a couple of NnN (which nobody can remember) and then ""You've 1101 a friend?" ('"WPten you·re down ­rroubled and you need a helping hand... • .m...evltll thou(Ill PhN dldn "tlrnow # but aome other nice perwon with 1 flOOd brain did.) Willi Chu. Chuwlck, Cllatlea. buddy, pal, you know who to cal. Tlrankll IOf the ~~~~ Hlflllllr. Sony about the valenllne. I love ya even If I am a apace cadet. (and not a very concllatory 0111 11 that.) Ger1z 
playing with fire gall you burned ..and l"m atilbumlng 
ODE TO DENNIS DOLAN DENNIS LOST IT THIS WEEKEND,IT IS TRUE I TOOK IT WITHOUT ASKING. WHAT COULDHEOO? I TOLD YOU I WAS QUICK.5 SECONDS FLAT IT FELL.I GRA88ED.IT HAPPENED LIKE THAT. YOU CALL ME, YOU BEG ME TO GIVE IT BACK, BUT THIS, MY DEAR. YOU WIU FOREVER LACK. REVENGE IN ME. DID YOU DOUBT. THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING OF A VERY LONG BOUT. 
.............................................. 
A TRIP TO PADUCAH llllkad a guy named PETEY. to )oin me In a trip to my hometown. dty. We lett at llix and got In aft• when we diiiCOVered my parenll weren't In the vldnity. So unlillll and Ede came home ..over PaduCIIh we <ld roam, then to Jarlmlah'l to chow on grtled frog-leg~ end 20oz. ol cow. Bad< to the houae we flew to watch Miami be ern­bar-.d by the gold end bkJe. We lett PaduCIIh In the after noon but raellzad thta _,., to 10011 for midway up the lllnola atate ,..ran Into anow coming down at an Incredible rate. So we atoppad at the Hdldome, In Kankak.. ~. awam. but NO violation oii8CIIon 8. Now we are back In Sooth Bend 10 my tile muat end. 'tiM another -end we"M try It again. 
MR WONDERFUL, FUZZ, T.D.. and DUSTER; The longelt trip to delver brownie~. How do you play poker? 4"a are 5'1. 5"1 •• 6'1. 1"1 and 8"e ere wild. Duller, where did the beer apll? You ere going to put me down with the rock8? Who"a flo? W11 aomeone ahut her up? Crazy glue her Npe. II won't work. thla tape 11 broken. Who atole my ahadee? Do you guye have any vallum. I ,_,vlvarln? We hate playing poker with girlll Thanka for a good time. Can we do It again aomlllme? ·Ole Poker Face. The Drunk, and Weezle 


The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1986-page 8 
Relay team posts best time, qualifies for NCAA meet 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame track team will be represented at the NCAA meet in Oklahoma City, Okla. in the two -mile relay. The Irish team of John McNeils, Jeff Van Wie, Robert Nobles and Jim Tyler posted a time of 7:24.84 last Saturday in the University of Boston's Terrier Classic to qualify. 
According to Irish head coach Joe Piane, last Saturday's time was the fastest in the country this year in the two-mile event. 
"I'd like to think they could come back All-Americans," says Piane. "That means they would have to finish in the top six." 
But Piane does not rule out the possibility of a national champion­ship, and feels his runners have the potential to win it all. 
"Their chances are pretty good," he says. "I think they have as good 


Royal
continuedfrom page 12 
Throughout his career, Royal has been known for his cat-quick moves inside, not his free throw shooting. He began to really make his mark at Notre Dame in the stretch drive last year. He had his four finest scoring games in the last four games of the regular season, capping it off with a 24-point per­formance in a double-overtime win at Dayton in the final game. 
Coming into this season, many people expected big things from the New Orleans native. Instead, Royal struggled at times, for both points and consistency. 
"It was frustrating," he admitted. "After the first couple of games, I had lost the confidence I had gain­ed from last year." 
But the confidence has returned, and some lofty comparisons are be­ing made. 
"I see shades of Orlando Woolridge in Royal," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "He has great quickness like Woolridge, and once he gets the ball he reads well and can take it to the hole and draw the foul. 
"He's very deceptive with his body size and strength. But maybe the thing I like most about Donald is that he's worked just as hard as anybody. " 
"We've got him facing the basket more and more. He's not afraid to shoot the outside jumpre now,"' Phelps continued. "That's his next step to becoming a complete 


\\ ith HdX.'n Stomlunt a~ l'n >'>l1l'n > 
Dilwcledb\'--inton 
THURSDAY FEBRU4.RY 27 

FRIDAY FEBRUARY 28 Washington Hall 
SATURDAY MARCH 1 Tiieatre 
Tlclleta $6 M:un Floor S5 Balcony $4 Students 
THURSDAY MARCH 6 

Av•llable•t Washington Hall
FRIDAY MARCH 7 
Alhlehc & ConVDt.ato1 Center Gt~te tO 

SATURDAY MARCH 8 Group Rates Av•ilM»~e For TICketlnformatH,., CaH(219) 239-51~ 
(219) 239·5957 
8:10p.m. 

a chance as anyone to finish on top. The biggest competition will come from Penn State, Pittsburgh, Florida State and Northwestern." 
In the qualifying run, McNeils 

finished the first leg in l :51.8, 
Nobles followed with a 1:50.7 
clocking, VanWie ran the third leg 
in 1:51.5 and Tyler anchored the 
squad with a time of 1:50.8. __ 
Tyler is also confident in Notre Dame's chances for a national title. 
"I think we have a great shot at (the title) since we had the fastest time in the country;" Tyler says. "I think our chances are excellent. 
"It's kind of exciting even though I don't think the feeling has sunk in yet. We've been working really hard for this and it's definitely within reach." 
The track team is back in action at the ACC on Saturday at l p.m. in a three-way meet against DePaul and Marquette. 
player." 
Not heavily recruited out of high school because he didn't have the big scoring average (12.7 points a game), Royal is flattered by such observations. 
"It makes me feel good to be compared with someone like Woolridge," said Royal, who also grabbed a game-high 13 rebounds last night. "Hopefully, I can look at him as a model." 
Lately, Royal's coaches and teammates have been looking at him as a model of consistency. He had a 20-point effort against Syracuse on Feb. 8 and, following several games wh\!re he was plagued by a hip bruise, came back with 17 points in Notre Dame's rout of Miami last Saturday. 
"Donald's play lately has meant a great deal to us," said David Rivers. "Teams no longer can con­centrate only on myself and Ken Barlow. It makes things a lot easier." 
Last night, Royal had DePaul coach Joey Meyer shaking his head after the game. 
"Royal has always played well against us," said Meyer. "Tonight was no exception. He takes it right to you and draws the fouls. He did an excellent job, and obviously was the key to the game." 
As the Irish play out the season in preparation for the NCAA Tour­nament, including a homecoming game for Royal Monday at the University of New Orleans, con­tinued strong play from the 6-7 junior will be a necessity for suc­cess. 

~~~ & 
AI' t"hOtO
Capital punishment 
Craig Laughlin ofthe Washington Capitals keeps were both winners in last night's NHL action. All Boston's Mike O'Connell on the ice in an NHL the hockey scores appear in Sports Briefs on page game earlier this year. The Capitals and the Bruins 7. 
SMC soccer club takes sixth at indoor meet after falling to visiting schools last Saturday 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Soccer Club took sixth place in Saint Mary's third annual Indoor Soccer Invita­tional on Saturday. Teams visiting Angela Athletic Center for this tournament included Michigan State -the team that claimed the title at the invitational, Indiana University, Marquette University, the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, and a Chicago select team composed of the best high school players on the west side of Chicago. 
The Belles faced the Chicago select team for their first game and fell to them 2-l. K.C. Chandler was credited with Saint Mary's only goal. In the Belles' second game, the Marquette Warriors handed the team a 1-0 loss. Saint Mary's com­peted against the University of Wisconsin in its final game and dropped a 4-3 decision to the Pan­
. thers. Contributing two points to the Saint Mary's score was Kathy Boldt with a field goal and a free kick. The Belles' remaining goal was notched by Anne Szweda. 
"The teams that participated in the tournament were very com­petitive and very physical," said 
K.C. Chandler. 

"Our team was strong defensive­ly, but we had a hard time connec­ting and scoring," said Gloria Eleuteri. 
"Indoor soccer moves at a faster pace than outdoor," said Belles coach John Akers. "The team im­proved close marking on defense, an area that was not as successful during the fall season. 
When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 

"My goal for the club is to keep the players together as a team. It allows us to play in the off-season without pressure so the players can work on their skills for the fall season." 
"The club is a great opportunity to keep the team in shape during the off-season and promote team coalescence," said Maureen Mur­phy. 
"I want the indoor season to be more fun and relaxed without ex­cessive competition," said Akers, "so that the players' strong points can come through in the fall." 
The Belles will be playing on the road in Soccer City at Palatine, Ill., for another tournament this weekend. They will hope to come through with a solid performance as they face some of the top teams in teh Midwest. 

(** * * * * ** * * * * * * ***1
f DISTINGUISHED STUDENT ); ! t AWARD :i The Notre Da111e Alu111nl A.uoel•tlon will h •eeeptlnl ...,_,... ~ : fro• Fe.ru•r~ 14•28 for tJae StJa •nnu•l Dlstfn...lsJaM .,...., 
• AUHir•. The Dlstln..,lshe• 5tu•ent AUHir• IIHIS er•te• te ,._.,.•• ~ outsa.n•fnlsenior stu•ent •t the Unlu.rslt~ NSM on the fell...,fal !: ~ erfterl•: ;; 
1) Service to Notre Dame, 
2) Service to the Community, and, 
• 
3) Good Academic Standing. ~ Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Assodation Office on 
f  the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for  
:;  Social Concerns • and at Campus Ministry Office in the  
~ •  Memorial Library Nominations must be submitted to the Association by ~'•"· 28, 1986.  Jt :  

:*******************************************•-*******~ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 26, 1986 -page 9 

ND women take on Butler tonight 
By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 
If the Butler Lady Bulldogs had their choice, they probably wouldn't choose 7:30 tonight at the ACC as the ideal time and place to play a certifiably hot Notre Dame women's basketball team. 
Playing in their last two home games of the season tonight and Friday against Evansville, the Irish come into tonight's game with a 17­7 overall record and a 9-1 North Star Conference mark. They are currently on a five-game win streak, and since the holiday road trip, the Irish have won II out of 13 games. And it doesn't stop there. 
Over the weekend, Notre Dame knocked off NSC rivals Loyola and DePaul, and the significance of the accomplishment was not lost by Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. 
"It (the win over the weekend) was probably the first time in the history of the program that we've faced a must-win situation and come through." she said. 
Irish senior Trena Keys, who went on a rampage in Chicago with 30 points against Loyola and 25 against DePaul, was named the NSC player of the week for her outstanding performances. It was the third time this season the stan­dout forward was given the honor. 
Still, it doesn't stop there. 
Sophomore center Sandy Botham has scored in double figures for the last 14 games, averaging 15.5 points a game and 
8.4 rebounds in her current streak. She ranks 16th nationally in field goal percentage, shooting at 60.1 percent. Botham is an integral part of an Irish front line that has outre­bounded its opponents by 14.1 re­bounds per game. And to top it all off, the Irish defense is sixth in the nation in opponents' field goal percentage (37 .1 percent) and 16th in scoring defense (58. 7 points per game). 
What's left for the Lady Bulldogs? While they undoubtedly would love to make their season tonight with an upset win, their 4­19 record (1-9 in the NSC) makes that hope not unlike a dream. The memory of when the Lady Bulldogs last met the Irish won't necessarily fuel that hope either, as it was a 91­40 pasting of the Butler team in In­dianapolis. 
"Butler has some decent players, and they run an equal-opportunity 

Step into Student Government with Heller, Cook & Burke 
Student Government commissioner applications available Feb. 25 -Mar. 4 at Haggar College Center Desk 

~~M!CHtGAN 
'------The feeling is forever.­
•'~ LEE clEANS '~&·1•1•& 
r 1 
• AUDIENCE GIVEAWAYS; . I ~ just by showing up for the game, you may win a 1 ~ free shirt, pair of jeans, jean jacket, painter's fill 
Jcap, baseball cap, poster, or an entire Lee jeans~'! o~tl ~ 
-~ ~ 
Wednesday's game, Feb. 26, 7;30pm ~~ ~ ND Women's basketball vs. Butler 
I Participating dorms: Dillon, Zahm, Lewis, iJ ill Stanford, Badin, Fisher tit ~~ Come 'pull' for your team/ • 
~ HALFTIMEMATCHUP: .1 
ill Jr. Class vs. Sr. Class a 
il.w TUG 0' WAR CONTEST 
offense with everybody averaging seven or nine points a game," said DiStanislao. "The main problem they've had is that they don't match up inside. but they're the kind of team that never stops playing. The play you for 40 minutes every game." 
Second-year coach Russ Sarfaty, 4-24.last season, is trying to build a program at Butler while at the same time presiding over the transition from Division II to Division I. Returning sophomore starter Pam Schiefelbein and freshman Sheryl Miller form the bacY.bone of the team, with Miller leading the team with 10.5 points a game. Miller, a 6-foot center who 1st year was an Indiana All-Star, will be joined by classmate Martha Kondalski on the front line. Kondalski leads the Lady Bulldogs with 8.7 rebounds per game. 
The Butler team is made up primarily of freshmen and sophomores, the only exception be­ing senior center Jill Muensterman, who will be on the bench tonight. Forward Sandy Hawkins (5.4 ppg., 
5.9 rpg.), guard Pam Schiefelbein 
(9.6 ppg., 5.4 rpg.), and guard Whitney Marshall (7.1 ppg., 2.2 rpg.) make up the balance of the team. 
For the Irish, Keys and Lynn Eb­ben will be making their final ap­pearances at the ACC this week. 

SMC fencers end season in victory 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's fencing team (15-7) concluded its season with landslide victories over Eastern Michigan, 13-3, Michigan, 13-3, and Michigan State, 15-1. 
"The team continued to fence well this weekend," said Head Coach Mike Weeks. "I was pleased with the outcome against these teams, even though they are not in our league." 
Mary Beth Proost went 2-1 on the day while Ann Raney turned in an impressive record of 12-0. Becca Barnett had a 3-1 slate, Shannon Maughan recorded a 10-2 mark, and Mary Fran Wilken followed with a perfect 7-0 record. 
Weeks brought another novice along, this time choosing Briget Murphy. As a freshman, Murphy recorded a 7-3 record in her first competition. Weeks hopes that, by bringing these novices along, he helps strengthen the program for next year. 
"Briget fenced very well." said Weeks. "If she learns how to con­trol her foil, she will do very well." 
Junior Class Formal 
Saturday, March 8 Knollwood Country Club 
Tickets available tonight and Thursday 6 9pm Junior Class Office LaFortune 
Limited number available 
SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare &Midway Airport one wayszoooRound TripS30°0 
Available February 15th through March 1lst. Tickers purchased usable rhroughour 1986 
INSIDE 

INDIANA (800) 332-7323 LOCAL (219) 674-6993 
Or call your travel agent 

This past weekend helped the Belles in gearing up for the Great Lakes Tournament. Eleven or 12 teams will be competing this weekend as Proost, Raney, Barnett and Maughan will represent Saint Mary's. 
Weeks hopes the team keeps its momentum going in the tourna­m~nt. He has set a goal of placing within the top four. 
"So far this season, we have been fortunate enough to avoid in­juries," Weeks said. "As long as this continues, the team should do well." 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
DePaul would come as close as five points three times in the second half but could not come up with the baskets when they needed them to draw closer, missing foul shots, layups and and five-footers. 
"It was like deja vu," said Blue Demon head coach Joey Meyer, referring to January's 70-54 Notre Dame victory. "We could get close and then couldn't get the baskets to drop. We got it to 56-51 and missed free throws and then layups. The ball just didn't drop. We must have led the league in missed tip-ins." 
Dallas Comegys and Holmes each scored 15 for the Blue Demons. Holmes also pulled down nine rebounds. 
After the game, Meyer was not as sure about his team's NCAA status as Phelps was about Notre Dame's. 
"I don't know," said Meyer, whose squad's record dropped to 15-11. "That's up to them (the selec­tion committee) and the computer. We've got two tough games ahead (agianst UCLA and Marquette). We can see about the strength of our schedule and our won-loss record." 
r 
The Observer Wednesday, February 26. 1986-page 10 
t 
Duke claims N o.l spot 
Associated Press 
Duke head basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski said he's happy that his Blue Devils are ranked No. 1 in the nation, but he's more con­cerned with his team staying No. 1 in the Atlantic Coast Conference. 
Duke became the third team ­all from the ACC -to hold the No. 1 spot in the Associated Press Poll this season as the Blue Devils jumped over North Carolina in the latest rankings released yesterday. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame climbed two spots to the No. 12 position after a pair of impressive victories last week. The Irish pounded Manhatten last Tuesday night by a 102-47 score, and then easily handl­ed Miami, Fla. on Saturday in a 126-73 victory. 
''To have Duke No. 1 in anything is nice," Krzyzewski said. "But we're much more concerned with what's going on in our conference this week. We're in first place in the ACC and that's the No. 1 we're concerned about." 
Duke, 27-2, received 62 of the 64 first-place votes and 1 ,278 points from a nationwide panel of sport­swriters and broadcasters. The Blue Devils joined Georgia Tech, which was No. 1 in the preseason poll, and North Carolina, which held the top spot each of the 13 weeks in the voting since the season began. 

the Blue Devils posted two vic­tories last week, beating Miami, Fla 104-82 and then-No. 10 Oklahoma 93-84. Duke, which plays at Clem­son Wednesday night, is 10-2 in the ACC, one game ahead of North Carolina and Georgia Tech. 
Kansas, 27-3, jumped from third to second in the poll with 1 , 181 points and one first-place vote. The Jayhawks clinched the Big Eight regular-season title with an 84-69 victory over Kansas State Saturday. Monday night, the Jayhawks beat Oklahoma on the road 87-80. 
North Carolina received the other first-place vote and 1,140 points after suffering two losses last week. The Tar Heels, 25-3, were beaten at home by Maryland 77-72 in overtime and fell to then­No. 20 North Carolina State 76-65. 
iJJTcliiiTw.nty
The Top Twenty:::.::: bakelbll INma In 

The Aalloc/ated ,.,_ pol, with flmil*e 
votee In parenlh-. lhla -.,·a recorda 
and total polnta. Painta baed on 20-19-18·17 
etc. Notre Dame opponenta we ltel/cized. 
1. Duke(62) 27·2 1,278 2. Ka-(1) 27-3 1,181 
3. Notth Cetollna (I) 25-3 1,140 4. Oemgla Tech 21-<1 1,on 5. Kentucky 24-3 979 6. StfWCuae 22-3 886 7. Memphla State 24-3 865 8. St.John'a 25-4 766 9. UNLV 27-3 759 
10. Michigan 23-4 747 11. Bradley 28·1 707 12. Notre o.m. 1H 540 13. Louiavlle 22·7 455 14. Oldahoma 23-6 434 15. Georgetown 20-6 415 16. Indiana 18-6 240 
17. Michigan State 18-6 236 18. N.C. State 18-9 178 19. Navy 23-4 171 20. Purdue 21·7 73 

SUMMER JOBS 
EArlN $3000 -$4500 THIS SUMMER 
• 
EJrteroor Hou~e Poontong • 14 Week Monomum Seo~on 

• 
Management Opportunotoes on 1st Year . 

• 
40 Hours Per Week ©·., . 

• 
Great Career hperoence 1 ~ @&,&,~@~ 

• 
Stortong S5 Per Hour Wage (r;Jffi&.l?'if 


HURRY! Flti0~~ickly ~TEAM 
HOUSEPAtNHRS 

Monneapolo~. St Paul 
(6t2) tU-1250 
Chocago West Suburbs Cleveland Suburbs 
(J12) .....20t (2.6) .,.·Ofl7 
Chocogo North Shoo<! ·Columbus 
(J12) ····21· <•••) ....•tOO
Exciting Permanent Car••~ Alao Aval 
Special StudentI Youth Fares to 
SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Winter Rates to Scandinavia New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip New York to Helsinki from $270 one way Chicago to Copenhagen from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $280 one way, $480 roundtrip and tours designed especially for stude.nts to the SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
Youth and student travel experts for over a decade 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 Summer Fares Now AvaUable! 

Redmen were two teams which moved down in this week's AP college basketball poll. This week's rankings a.re detailed at left. 
IH basketball season winds down 
By DAVE McGAREL Walsh destroyed Badin by a score Gibbons took control on the boards Sports Writer of 63-28 despite having only five late in the game to seal the victory. players for most ofthe game. The tal· Lewis was able to hit clutch free
Farley 'A', Walsh 'A' and Lewis 'B' ler Walsh club led 27-9 and 36·11 throws and improved its record to were winners Monday night as the after the first two periods of play. 3·5. Gibbons finished with a game·women's interhall basketball league Walsh's Mileski sisters wore out high 12 points.
entered its final week of regular 
the Badin squad. Patti Mileski scored 
season action. Breen· Phillips still sports an un­
Farley pushed its record to 6-2 a game-high 22 points and Mary defeated record (7·0) and is the with a hard-fought 42-31 victory Mileski finished with 14. Laura team to beat as the playoffs are just over Pasquerilla East. Balanced Gleason added 13 points. Walsh around the corner. The regular scoring was the key as Julie Pietras moved to 7·1 with the win, while season winds to a halt today. led Farley with six points. Colleen Badin fell to 2-6. Pasquerilla West takes on Farley 'A', Donnelly and Colleen O'Connor Lewis 'B' defeated Walsh 'B' by a Lewis 'B' faces B.P., Walsh plays Far· each scored five points for the losers 30·24 margin in a game that was ley 'B' and Badin plays Lyons in as P.E. dropped to 6-4. close the entire way. Lewis' Jackie today's games. 

$1 
~.-rl11J n1 9 h t II i -f'-1o 1-:;on -r1oo:.ehead 
-·MJche ](Jb 
Thurs.-~tw'~ Schnapps ~~pee 1a1s1 Fun lri thF" snow 1n our \/ery own Gardens [Jre~.5 \Varn1 
.E.Bl-(;JfS)IIiJ@J: ID\f®fetl ®fllf!U®IIJ~IJIIID Draft Spec1als1 SAT.-Dance the n1 C.lht awav at "The Club", .~11 art> welcome~ 
FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1069 239-7521 



..... 
~~~C3L~---------------------------------------vv_e_ct_n_e_sct_a_y_,_F_eb_r_u_a.ry_2_6_,_I_9_86---p-a_g_e_I_l
Bloom County Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
r---------------~ 
DANN'r', l WAS JUST CURIOUS, [)OES TillS SUD!>E"N 1lLJ\JES.5 ~AV~ 
f:IN'ITHIN6 TlJ DO WITJ.l 
'lOUR. i=tXJRTESTS ANi:> 
THR£E ~:.....!.!:.'~<:V~ 



Wednesday, February 26 Thursday, February 27 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS ~~~~• 1 Balneation 5 Osculate 9 Bard 13 Exchange premium 14-flu 16-boy! 17-Rabbit 18 Income lor a Frenchman 19 Ancient Brltlsher 20 Breadwinner 22 Dance 24 Strip 26 Beseech 27 -the beans 30 Got away from 34 Greedy one 35 Ordinary writing 37 Sandpiper 38 Winglike parts 39 Intended 40 Takeon 41 Dash against 42 Cultivates <Cl1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/26/86All R1gn1s Reserved
43 Acceptable 44 Extinct cars 
a Became Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:
46 Discernible 48 Congregate attentive 50 Home of the 9 Tropical fruit 
ancient Irish 10 Auricular 
kings 11 Cut a design 
51 See 22A with acid 
55 Beach shoe 12 Adios In 
59 Portent Britain 
60 Civet relative 15 "Tocatchthe 
62 Alleviate -way" 
63 Hastened 21 Squirming 
64 Roman 23 Go on and on magistrate 25 Pariah 
65 Litany 27 Days or 
66 Vipers dressing 
67 Twinkler 28 Baby carriages 
68 Hebrew lyre 29 Tots of liquor 31 Cotton fabric DOWN 32 Uncanny 1 -In the 33 Act woods 34 Rabbit 2 Taj Mahal city 36 Attack 45 Corrects copy 54 Heal, as 3 Child's apron 39 Knead muscles 47 Eggorllly bones 4 See22A 40 See22A 49 Luges 56 Stage 5 Keg 42 Fault 51 -Nostra 57 About 6 Partake of 43 Sp. unit of 52 Elec. units 58 Lecher's look 7 Raton length 53 Castle part 61 Guido's note 
2/26/86 


Hey, let's be careful out there. 
r-------------, 
~ing ! 
.. I
Advice .. ~. ! I 
~n~)l
alife ,J 1 
Public ..rvlce announcement by 
. I 
the Oovemofa Task Force to Reduce
~...-I 
:::.·· I Drunk Driving Jnd The Obaerwer 
L-------------J 
Hall of Engineering 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 $1.00 
The Student Activities Board celebrates Winter Festival by providing 
FREE Cross Country Skiing 
on the N.D. golf course 
Thursday, Feb. 27 from 6-9p.m. D.J., bonfire &refreshments at clubhouse 

. -... 
Wednesday, February 26, 1986-page 12
S~orts 
Irish defeat DePaul by 70-59 score despite poor shooting performance 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN With its perimeter game suffer­foul trouble. We got the rhythm Sports Writer ing an off night, Notre Dame look­from our bench." ed to pound the ball inside to either Still, Phelps was happy about the 
After Notre Dame beat DePaul score or draw fouls. way his team responded on a poor last night by a score of 70-59 for its "We knew that DePaul plays night. 20th win of the year against five physically," said Irish captain Ken "Tonight we had no killer in­defeats, Jrish head coach Digger Barlow. "We kept going inside to stinct," Phelps said, "but we still Phelps had one thing to say about get to the line." found a way to win. That's what I post-season play. Combined with a tenacious like about these kids, they adjust so 
"We iced an NCAA bid as a ma­defense that mixed zones well. They do what it takes to do to jor independent for an at-large ber­throughout the evening, Notre win." th," said Phelps. Dame limited the Blue Demons to David Rivers, who had 14 points, 
The icing on a season-long quest 44 field goal percentage (on 24-of-echoed Phelps' thoughts. came on a night when the Irish did 54 shooting) and forced three "I didn't play all that great," not shoot well from the floor (20-DePaul players (Tony Jackson, shrugged Rivers, "but I did what of-46 for 44 percent) and once Kevin Holmes and Marty Embry) had to be done." again needed a strong showing to foul out. DePaul jumped out to the early from the foul line. Notre Dame "We had to keep mixing zones to lead and led by as much as six, found what it needed Donald keep them off the offenseive largely on the strength of some Royal. boards," said Phelps of his game sharp shooting by Jackson who 
The junior forward hit a perfect plan. "That's a large part of their finished with 13 points, before 16-of-16 foul shots, a Notre Dame offense, tipping in offensive re­Notre Dame cut the DePaul lead to record, along with five field goals bounds. 21-19 with 8:16left. The Irish then for a game-high 26 points. Royal "On offense, we thought we went on a 10-0 tear to take a lead also grabbed 13 rebounds while could get it inside to Donald. they would never relinquish. The playing 38 minutes. His perfor­"I didn't think we played well key play was a Mark Stevenson mance earned the Wendell Smith tonight," Phelps continued. "I (eight points) slam after Rivers sav­award as the MVP of the game. didn't like our rhythm, and I ed a ball that was heading out of The award is given annually to the thought the early flow was disrup­bounds. outstanding player in the Notre tive. Barlow wasn't in a groove (1­
see IRISH, page 9
Dame-DePaul game. of-7 from the floor) and then got in 
Royal sets Notre Dame free throw shooting mark 
ByJEFFBLUMB led by Benoit Benjamin, the former championship. straight free throws last night broke go up to the line and shoot," Royal Sports Editor Creighton star now with the NBA's "Missing that shot always somes the Notre dame record of 15, set by said. "Coach Brokaw has taught Atlanta Hawks. to mind when I go up to the free Bob Arnzen against New York me different techniques of shooting Donald Royal may have been a Carroll was .leading, 45-44, when throw line," said Royal, who scored University in the 1966-67 season. the basketball. I never had a techni­
perfect 16-of-16 from the free­Royal was fouled with seven a career-high 26 points last night in Royal attributes much of his im­que before. throw line last night, but one free seconds left in the game. He step­Notre Dame's 70-59 win 
over provement in free-throw shooting "I've improved a lot by practicing 
throw -a full four years ago -re­ped to the line with a one-and-one DePaul at the ACC. "It's a heart­to the tutoring of Irish assistant my free throws before and after mains firmly etched in his mind. situation on his hands and the game breaking feeling to have the season coach Gary Brokaw. After working practice. I work on getting the same As a high school junior, Royal's on the line. end because you missed a free with Brokaw, Royal now shoots rhythm every time. It's just a mat­
St. Augustine High team was play­And he missed the first shot. throw. I swore then that I would every free throw the same as the ter of doing the same thing over ing in the semifinals of the Loui­Just like that, St. Augustine's improve my free throw shooting." last one. and over." siana state basketball tournament season was over. Carroll, mean­Obviously, the junior forward of "I was a terrible free throw against Carroll High, which was while, went on to win the state the Irish has done just that. His 16 shooter in high school. I would just see ROYAL, page 8 
Final games will determine seeding and location 
Hello again, everybody! 
with the Flyers. Still, Don Donoher's club needs every What a difference a year makes! win it can get to keep its tournament hopes alive. The One year ago today, Digger Phelps and his Notre Chuck Flyers are 16-11 following a loss to Xavier last night. 
Dame basketball team were sweating out the final games Thus, the Notre Dame game may be Dayton's last hope ­
Freeby

of the basketball season. The Irish were 17-7 and hungry if they still have one-of making the field of 64. to return to the NCAA tournament after a three-year Obviously, all three teams will be trying to prove
Irish Items 

absence. Phelps figured his squad had to win three of its something to the NCAA selection committee when they last four to be selected to the field of 64, and the Irish take the floor against Notre Dame. However, the Irish managed that feat with tough wins over Washington, Fortunately for Marquette, the Warriors have two ad­have something to prove to the NCAA committee as well. Marquette, and Dayton. vantages entering the game. First of all, they will be play­Notre Dame has played well enough to deserve one of the 
Today, the story is completely different. Notre Dame ing at home, which can never be underestimated. Second­top four seeds in any region, but where the Irish wind up has been confident of a tournament berth for almost a ly, Rick Majerus will have virtually all week to prepare in those seeds may depend on the outcome of their last month now, and capped another 20-win season with a his team for the Irish, as the Warriors' only game this three games. victory over DePaul last night. Instead of wondering week is tonight against less-than-powerful Wisconsin­That's why it's important the Irish remember how bad­whether they will be selected, the only questions the Irish Green Bay. Rest Assured that his team will be more than ly they wanted! to win those last three games in 1985. 
have had are where they will go and what they will be ready to try and make up for its overtime loss at the ACC Notre Dame has been playing outstanding basketball seeded. earlier this month. during the last month, but Phelps would like to see his 
The destination may be out of their control, but the Next, the Irish travel to New Orleans. Before you log team shift into a little higher gear for the tournament. seed is not. Notre Dame can go a long way towards deter­this one into Digger's vacation budget, take a look at the Another display of intensity in the last three games of mining how high it will be seeded in the NCAA tourna­Privateers' record. New Orleans is 16-8 and it is not mere­1986 could go a long way to making the "Road to Dallas" 
ment by winning the last three games of its season against ly a cliche to say "this is not the same team" the Irish just a little bit easier. the top independents in the country. If the Irish are to destroyed 79-54last year. PICK OF THE WEEK ... It's been a long, cold month win those games, though, they must realize their op­First of all, they have a new coach in Benny Dees, but on the road for the Notre Dame hockey team, but maybe ponents are in the same predicament Notre Dame was in more importantly, the Privateers inherited a lot of talent some "home cooking" will help the Irish. Coach Lefty last year, and they will be just as hungry. when city rival Tulane folded its basketball program. The Smith's squad takes the home ice for the final time this 
First of all, the Irish must travel to Marquette for a Privateers are good, but whether or not they're good weekend, entertaining North Dakota State on Friday and 
regionally-televised matchup on Saturday. The Warriors enough to make the NCAA remains to be seen. Once Saturday night at the ACC. have been playing well in the last three weeks, as shown again, here's a team whose schedule is less that brilliant It will mark the last home appearance for nine seniors ­by their win last Saturday at Dayton. Nevertheless, Mar­(tehy played Stetson in consecutive games), and a win or at least those who can play. Wings Brent Chapman 
quette still owns a 16-8 record in a schedule which over a proven power like the Irish may make the tourna­and Jeff Badalich are out with injuries, as is co-captain featured only three top-20 teams -North Carolina and ment committee take notice. Bob Thebeau, but the rest of the senior class hopes to Notre Dame twice. A win could· be enough to push Mar­Finally, the Irish wrap up their season with a home make its exit a happy one. Face-off both nights is at 7:30, quette into the NCAA, but a loss could push them into date against Dayton, and nobody around here needs to be and plenty of giveaways will be conducted, so don't miss the NIT. reminded of what happened in this year's first contest any of the action 





