
South Bend Blues -page 5 


VOL. XX, NO. 125 MONDAY, APRIL 14, 1986 · an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND to increase access to business courses ByJOE MARKEY in each of the University's StaffReporter acedemic disciplines should be available to any student who has The problem of access to the course pre-requisites, is wil­courses in the College of Busi­ling to meet the standards for ness Administration by non­course participation, and into business majors will b<" whose overall program ofstudies eliminated over the next two the course fits as a free elective." years, Provost Timothy O'Meara This expansion of the College said. of Business Administration to The objective is to encouragea non-business majors is a "good broad education, O'Meara said. move," according toJohn Oteri, a Students who want to explore senior ALPA/government major. business without majonng in it "My biggest gripe with the will be able to take electives in (ALPA) program was that it was business, he said. so difficult to get into good busi­To facilitate access, O'Meara ness courses," said Oteri. said, additional business faculty members will be added during According to Oteri, "at present the 1986-87 and 1987-88 only five spots are reserved for. academic years. non-business majors in the re­Expansion will first be made in quired courses. It's nearly impos­the accountancy department, sible to get into the courses you said O'Meara. He said th~ number want," he added. of business faculty will increase "I'm glad they're finally doing by five in 1986-87 and by five something about it. I wish some­more the following year. thing had been done earlier," Enrollment in business Oteri said. courses by non-business majors O'Meara also expressed the"'"II be studied and monitored necessity of the improvement. during this two year period, ac­"The whole objective of the Uni­cording to O'Meara. versity is to provide the oppor­"As a matter ofgeneral policy," tunity for a broad education. This he said, "a wide variety ofcourses move is long overdue," he said.  


SMC petition for divestment nets 936 signatures 
By ANN KALTENBACH 
Assistant News Editor 
An unofficial total of 54 percent of the Saim Mary's studem body signed a petition last week for divestment from companies doing business in South Africa, a participation level called "excellent" by Rebecca Het­land, member of Saint Mary's Peacemakers, sponsors of the peti­tion. 
"We have exceeded 900 
signatures, which is over 50 percent 
of the student body. That's good, 
considering there is only 30 to 35 
percent participation in student 
government elections," said student 
Peacemaker Diane Presti. 
The Peacemakers said 936 stu­
dents signed the petition, although 
an official total will not be available 
until the signatures are verified later 
this week. 
Peacemaker and Associate Profes­sor of philosophy Ann Clark compared participation between the Notre Dame referendum for divestment in early March and the petition at Saint Mary's. 
"When Notre Dame held its 
referendum. about ";H percent 
voted," Clark said. Approximately 
4H percent ofthose Notre Dame stu­
dents voted in favor of divestment, 
slightly less than the level at Saint 
Mary's, Clark said. 
The results of the petition will be 
see PETITION, page 3 



Bush: Libyans bad 'fingerprints' on recent international terrorism 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Vice President George Bush said yesterday "Ubyans had their fingerprints all over state-sponsored terrorism" and 
the  United  States  had  a  duty  to  
punish  those  who  threaten  
Americans overseas.  

Deputy Secretary of State John Whitehead said U.S. officials had in­formation implicating Ubyan leader Moammar Khadafy in the bombing of a West Berlin nightclub in which an American was killed and indicat­ing that Khadafy was plotting more attacks. 
President Reagan is weighing the usc military force against Ubya in retaliation for the attack, Whitehead said, but added, "the prospect ·at military action is something that only the president will decide on. He has not yet made that decision." 
Reagan last week indicated his willingness to take military action if the perpetrators could be identified and an appropriate target located. 
Two U.S. aircraft carriers, the America and Coral Sea, which last month engaged Ubyan forces in the disputed Gulf of Sidra, remained "underway in the Mediterranean," said Pentagon spokesman Maj. Larry Icenogle. Pentagon sources said Saturday the carriers were awaiting orders off the coast ofSicily. 
The Reagan administration was consulting with key members of Congress and U.S. allies in Western Europe over the next step against Khadafy. 

Sen. Richard Lugar, R-Ind., said Saturday he was invited to the White House on Monday to discuss pos­sible action against Libya. 
"A decision will be made on that occasion or shortly thereafter as to what our response should be," said Lugar, the chairman of the senate Foreign Relations committee. 
U.N. ambassador Vernon Walters met with British Prime Minister Mar­garet Thatcher in London on Satuday' and with West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher in Bonn on yesterday He later flew to Paris for scheduled meetings with President Francois Mitterand and Premier Jacques Chirac, and was slated to fly to Rome later. 
Reagan and Kohl have fingered Ubya as a suspect in the West Berlin explosion. On Wednesday, the West German government expelled two Ubyan diplomats, but said the expul­sions were not related to the bom­bing. 
Bush, while refusing to accuse Khadafy point-blank of planning the bombing, said "there's proofthat the Ubyans have their fingerprints all over state-sponsored terrorism, but I'm just not going to be drawn into 
what's happening now." 
"The United States has an obliga­tion to protect its citizens living abroad and to bring to justice in some, in any way possible, those who threaten the lives or take the lives of Americans abroad," Bush said. 
Bush, who headed an administra­tion task force that studied how the United States could respond to ter­rorism, said he had "always been in favor of retaliation on a sort of a surgical basis. I don't believe we need kind of an indiscriminate ap­proach." 
The vice president spoke on the NBC program "Meet the Press" as he returned from a I 0-day trip to Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman and North Yemen. 
None of the leaders in those four nations offered direct support for last month's attack on Ubyan targets in the Gulf of Sidra, Bush said, "but indirectly I think everyone under­stood it." 
Asked whether any Arab country endorsed arm~d U.S. action against fellow Arabs, Bush replied, "Not publicly but there's a lot of quiet support. I know this for a fact cer­tain." 
Whitehead, appearing on the CBS program "Face the Nation," said U.S. intelligence officials have gathered "a lot of information" on the West Berlin bombing. 
Three football players disciplined for assault of NO Security officer 
ByMARKPANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
Three Notre Dame football players have been disciplined by Student Affairs for theirinvolvement in the April 6 assault ofa Security of­ficer and the ramming of a car into eight parked cars, The Observer has learned. 
Sophomore back-up center Mark 
Antonietti was permanently dis­
missed from the University, accord­
ing to a team member who spoke on 
the condition he not be named. 
Sophomore split-end Tony Eason was suspended for the remaining part of the semester, the unnamed player said. Eason started several games last year. 
Freshman split-end Steve Alaniz was fined and placed on disciplinary probation, the player said. 
The unnamed player said the punishments levied on the threestu­dents differed because of the extent of each one's involvement in the incident. The player did not go into specifics, however. 
Antonietti and Eason, who were 
roommates in Zahm Hall, already 
have been sent home, the source 
said. A Zahm Hail resident said he 
saw Eason packing Saturday. 
Attempts to contact Antonietti, Eason and Alaniz by phone yester­day were unsuccessful. None of the three participated in Friday's scrimmage. 
Notre Dame Head Coach Lou 
Holtz could not be reached for com­
ment yesterday. However, Holtz did 
say after Friday's scrimmage that he 
had been informed of the Univer­
sity's decision. 
Holtz did not identify the players nor mention specific disciplinary penalties. 
"Let me just say this: What they (the players) did was a bad act, but they are not bad people," Holtz said. "That'S what makes Notre Dame such a special place. They expect their students to be special people." 
·Holtz would not comment on the players' standing on the team. 
Associate Athletic Director Roger Valdiserri said he could not confirm or deny the reports because he was bound by a University regulation stipulating confidentiality in such matters. 
However, Valdiserri said ifplayers were involved in the incident, "I would have to assume that once they served the penalty, they would return as good citizens of the Uni­versity community, so that would in­clude the football team." 
Said Valdiserri, "It wasn't a football-related disciplinary action. It wasn't like they violated team rules. They violated University rules." 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson could not be reached for comment yesterday. However, the Office of Student Af­fairs has a policy ofnot releasing stu­dents' names nor the punishments levied in specific cases. 
The student guide du Lac states that "serious personal injury to anot­her may result in suspension or dis­missal." 
According to Notre Dame. Security Director Rex Rakow, the three students identified in the as-
see PUNISH, page 4 

The Observer Monday, April 14, 1986 -page 2 

Father Theodore Hesburgh, University presi­
dent, is among 170 religious leaders who have asked President Reagan to join the Soviet Union in a ban on nuclear weapons testing until the next U.S.-U.S.S.R. summit meeting. The letter to Reagan, released in late March, noted that Scripture warns nations "Not to trust in weapons and warriors for security, but in God." ­
The Observer 
Of Interest 0 

Nicaraguan Contras' methods of warfare will be ex­plored in a documentary entitled "Who's Running the War," to be shown tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
"Fi2hting for Human Rights in Latin America: 
A View from the Washington Trenches" will be the topic of alec­ture by Joseph Eldridge, director of the Washington Office on Latin America, today at 4 in the Center for Social Concerns. A se­cond lecture titled "Human Rights in Latin America: Whither the Debate?" will take place tomorrow at noon in Room 131 Decio Hall. The Helen Kellogg Institute is sponsoring the lectures. 
The Observer 

Reggae music, romance and ad!en.tur~ will 
be featured in the film "The Harder They Corne, which Will be shown tonight at 7, 9, and II in the Engineering Auditorium. Ad­mission is $1.50 and all proceeds will go towards staging the May 3 Rally Against Starvation benefit concert. -The Observer 
An Tostal Air Band Contest registration will be held today at 6 at the LaFortune Information Desk. Groups must have their song title at this time. The contest will take place Wednesday, April 23 and winners will receive cash prizes. For more informa­tion, call Kevin Virostek at 283-1062. -The Observer 
An Tostal Impersonations Contest registration will take place today through Thursday_in the An Tostal office on the second floor of LaFortune. Auditions will be held Tuesday, April 22 and the contest April 25. Call Amy O'Brien at 284-4132 for more information. -The Observer 
Trivia Bowl teams of four members may register to­day through Thursday in the An Tostal office. Contact Louise Foley at 284-4073 for more information. -The Observer 
"N0 More n·tets"' a program highlighting a healthy eating plan, will be held tonight at 7 in the meeting room of the South Bend Public library. Martha Dodgson, from the St. joseph's Medical Center, will speak at the free lecture.· The Observer 
VVeather ~ 
The old man should be snoring today if children's nursery rhymes about raining and pouring are true. There will be a 70 percent chance of showers today, with a high in the 60s. An 80 percent chance ofthun­dershowers tonight, low in the mid 40s. -AP 


=----:-::=Ihe_-ObserYer-_.==­


1beObserver is continuina to ex­perience typesettina (,iifficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
The Observer ( I"SPS ~99 2·-1000) is published :0.1onday through fnd;~y exnpt dunn~ exam and va<:ation periom The Observer is publi~hed by the students ofthe I ni,·ersit~ of Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s CollejCe Subscription~ may he purl·hased for S.~o per year ( 120 per semester) b~· WTitm~ The Observer, P 0 Box Q. :-.loire Dame. Indiana 
~M~<>. The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All repr<x!Ul'tlon ri!(ht~ are 
rt:!it"pVcd 
' 

Technical problems obscure effort put into newspaper 
Friday's newspaper ran a front page story on the defacement of the ND Memorial fountain. Earlier in the week, The Observer printed an account of various acts of violence which occurred during the previous weekend. 
These two stories are what most readers will remem­ber of last weeks newspaper; however, such stories do not present an accurate portrait of the campus or the newspaper. 
At Notre Dame, vandalism and violence are the ex­ceptions, not the rule. Students should not hold a dis­torted view of the campus because of a few isolated incidences. People should take proper precautions when walking the campus late at night. 
The banner headlines are what grab the readers. The "hot topics" are the ones readers will remember, dis­cuss with their friends and "call home about." There is, however, much more to a newspaper than its top stories. 

Joe Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 
newspaper on an old compugraphics machine. In simple . terms, this machine is like a "glorified typerwriter." Only one person can be on the machine at a time. Copy editing, normally done on the system, is done late at night with a razor blade. 
Not having an operational typesetter means our staff has the equivalent ofan eight, 12 or 16-page term paper due each day. 
The malfunctions, which are being corrected as quickly as possible, have resulted in substantial altera­tions in our daily schedule 
Over the last few months, The Observer has been produced despite major typeset\ing difficulties. The effect has been felt not only in our office, but around the campus. 
For the readers, these technical difficulties have meant inconvenience in ob­taining necessary informa­
tion.  Each  day,  dozens  of  
organizations  publicize  
their  meetings,  academic  
departments  announce  

changes in schedules or speakers, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's administrations announce appointments and 
students place birthday ad­vertisements. 
The Observer serves many different functions and has many different sections. It informs, entertains, en­lightens and arouses. Each section has a specific reason for being in the newspaper; however, The Observer has only one purpose: to serve the community. 
The typesetter is a central part of our newspaper. Un­der normal operating conditions, reporters and typists put articles into our computer system. Then, copy editors comb through the articles and remove any er­rors. Throughout the process, editors monitor every aspect of the story's progress. Then, the material is typeset. 
The typesetter produces a copy of the column or ar­ticle which the production staff places on the newspaper's flats. The flats then are taken to the printer's plant where 12,000 copies are produced. 
If all  goes smoothly,  the  newspapers  are  in  our  
readers' hands by lunchtime.  
Recently,  our  staff  has  been  producing  the  

staff, late nights have become even later. Errorless copy has become a luxury. In short, the final product has not reflected the effort put forth. 
In the reader's mind, a newspaper is only as good as 
its last edition. Thus, for the staff, each day brings an 
equal challenge -to produce the best possible 
newspaper despite the problems. 
There is, we have discovered, no substitute for grace 
under pressure. 
I do not mean to glorify the newspaper's staff. Many people work hard at what they do. My hope is that by better understanding what the newspaper does, readers will better understand the news. 
Each day, reporters and editors make decisions which affect the nature of the news and the direction of debate which results. Hopefully, behind each character of print is a person of character. 
Tickets $10 ot The Ticket Stub, LaFortune. 531 N. Michigan St:, 
Bus willeave at 11 :30om from Library Circle Ltur Phone 133-4957 .m; 
HAVE AN ND/SMC I.D. TO SIGN UPI1-----1
.................................................... 
-----rAttention Sophomores----­
Place your ring order before you 
leave for SUMMER VACATION. 

This will assure you of havin~ it 
when you return to school in the 
HOURS: 1:00pm-4:30pm Monday-Friday 
~~v IN THE OFFICE ON THE FIRST FLOOR ~MME~~ NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

and caused a reorganization of our priorities in what is printed. 
Lately, typesetting problems have been com­pounded by construction­related difficulties too numerous to mention. Last Thursday, for example, when everything that could go wrong had gone wrong, the electrical power failed during production. In fact, production was completed in another building. 
Unless one has worked for a daily newspaper, one can­not fully appreciate what all of this has meant. For the 



-
The Observer Monday, April 14, 1986 -page 3 
'Distinguished' student organized alcohol awareness programs at ND 
By CARL PUTNAM 
News Staff 
"Totally unexpected" was Notre Dame senior Mark Herkert's reac­tion when he found out he had won the Distinguished Student Award for 
1986. 
Herkert spearheaded an alcohol awareness campaign on campus this year, which included initiating ef­forts to have a course on alcohol and drug abuse added to the curriculum, and speaking in residence halls during Alcohol Awareness Week. 
He has also done alcohol related 

volunteer work for the Shelter for 
the Homeless, St.Joseph CountyJail, 
Westville Correctional Center and 
the Renaissance Center of Elkhart 
General Hospital. 
Herkert said he devoted himself 

to a drug and alcohol awareness 
campaign because he is a recovering 
alcoholic. He said he felt a great 
need for increased drug and alcohol 
awareness in the Notre Dame com­
munity and thought he could in­
fluence people better as a student 
than as an authoritarian figure such 
as the administration. 

e Town and Country Barber Shop, Mlahawak 
opcv'l9-6, Mon.-sat. 

Father Andre Leveille, director of University Ministry and chairman of the Distinguished Student Award committee, said Herkert was dif­ferent from all ofthe other nominees because he was able to "heal out of his own wounds". He said Herkert 

Mark Herkert 

encountered serious difficulties ru. an alcoholic and was almost dis­missed from the University, but he went to counseling and was able to overcome his problems. 
John Goldrick, Associate Vice President for Resident Life and member of the Distinguished Stu-
MDA Dance-a-thon April 19th 

A·rl.ENl.lO LL GRADUATING STUDENTS 

Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
Wednesday, April 16, 1986 
Between 9:00--4:30 at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
den! Award committee, said "he has affirmatively acted on his own beliefs that he must help us all to become more aware of the full dimension ofalcohol abuse." 
Herkert said he wants a program started to teach rectors and resident assistants how to deal with students who have alcohol problems. 
The Administration would have to have their "heads in the sand" not to recognize the problem of alcohol abuse on campus, said Leveille. 
Leveille cited the recent assault of a Notre Dame security officer and the destruction of a student's art project as examples of probable aJ. cobol abuse. 
Charles Lennon, executive direc­tor of the Alumni Assodation, said the award gives Herkert a forum to make the alumni aware of the problem and challenges them to act on it. 
Herkert said he has volunteered to work next year in an alcohol treat­ment center sponsored by Holy Cross Associates in Portland, Oregon. If he enjoys this work, he said he plans to earn a graduate degree in social work. 
New literary magazine to focus on fiction 
By CHRIS K. MURPHY 
News Staff 

Notre Dame students will soon have a new literary publication available to them. 
The new publication, which has yet to be named, has been 
·started by William O'Rourke, as­sistant professor of English, who said he saw a need to publish good fiction stories, including those of the creative writing classes, not published by other campus literary magazines, such as Scholastic andJuggler. 
''Juggler and Scholastic cover a lot of students' work, but there's even more interesting work that should be covered. With the new publication, we will be able to print longer stories that the ot­
hers  can't  publish  because  of  
their  space  limitations,"  
O'Rourke said.  

"Basically, we will show stu­dents what some of the writing 
Ca.va.tmt«Jh HaU Prod.ttctions 
presents 

~tiJtnit an~ @lb ht~ 
April 17, 18~ 19 8:00pm Memorial Ubrary AudJtortum Donations to the Andy Sowder Fund will be accepted at the door Pres Dramatist Pta Senice 
classes are doing," said O'Rourke. "It will draw attention to the good interest in writing and fic­tion on our campus. Also, stu­dents as well as faculty will interact on this publication." 
The five member editorial board, consisting of O'Rourke, English professor Ed Vasta and three students who have yet to be named, soon will begin select­ing stories suitable for publish­ing, said O'Rourke, who added that he expects six to eight stories to be published in the first edition, which he said will be a test run for the publication. 
"It will be a modest issue with mimeographed and duplicated pages stapled together. We want (the publication) to exist first and then develop it next year", said O'Rourke. 
The publication's first issue will be distributed in the dorms during the last week of classes, O'Rourke said. 
Petition 
continuedfrom page 1 
presented to the College Board of Regents on Friday, according to Clark. She said she did not' know if the petition will persuade the Board of Regents to divest from South Africa, but added that "not saying anything doesn't persuade anyone." 
Sister Mary Turgi, board regent and Peacemaker, will present the results of the petition to the Board, Clark said. Turgi was unavailable for comment. 
The Peacemakers do not have a formal presentation to the Board be­cause "the Board of Regents have a very tight schedule and meetings (agendas) are planned far in ad­vance," Clark said. 
The petition was scheduled at this time, Clark said, so the results would coincide with the Board's meeting date. "We're optimistic about the Board of Regents," said Presti. 
The Peacemakers are not calling for the board to vote on the issue un­til the fall. 
"We need more time for research and we don't want to push (the board) into anything," said Presti. 
The Peacemakers' next step (after the petition calling for divestment) depends on what happens when the Board of Regents meets this week, Clark said. 
College President William Hickey has already presented both sides of the divestment issue to the Board of 
The Observer Monday, April 14, 1986 -page 4 
Pope makes first synagogue visit 
Associated Press
. 
ROME -Pope John Paul II and Elio Toaff, Rome's leading rabbi embraced, read from the Psalms and prayed together in silence Sun­day during the first recorded visit by a pope to a synagogue. 
john Paul deplored what he called the "hatred and persecu­tion" of the jews throughout the centuries. 
"You ace our dearly beloved brothers and, in a certain way, it could be said that you are our elder brothers," John Paul said to resounding applause from the crowd ofabout 1,000 people. 
Speaking in Rome's monumental 
main synagogue facing the Tiber River, spiritual center of what is believed to be tJ;te oldest Jewish community in the West, the pope pledged the Roman Catholic Church wrnrtd further..i1_s efforts to remove all forms ofprejudice. 

But )oho Paul. did not address the thorny issue ot Vattcari 1'~~ to establish diplomatic relations with Israel. 
After readings in Hebrew, which were translated into Italian, Giacomo Saban, the president of Rome's Jewish community, spok~. 
He said in the 16th century, copies of the Talmud, a collection ofJewish writings, were burned in Campo dei Fiori, a square a short distance from the synagogue. 
Shortly afterward, Saban said, in 1555, Pope Paul IV ordered the city's jews confined in the ghetto, which existed until 1870 and is the site ofthe present synagogue. 
Saban then declared that Israel is "central to the heart ofeveryjew," and expressed the hope that "any reticence in regard to the State of Israel" will be removed. 
The pope, speaking in Italian, said, "certainly, we cannot and should not forget that the histori­cal circumstances ofthe past were very different from those that have laboriously matured over the cen­turies." 
He qu·oted from the Second 
Vatican Council's revolutionary 
1965 document on non-Christian 
religions. 
Punish 
continued/rom page 1 
sault admitted last week to their in­volvement in the early-morning incident. Rakow would not name the students nor would he specify what punishment they received. 
Rakow said the incident began at approximately 3:30 a.m. after Security received a report that a car was ramming other packed cars in the D-2 packing lot, Rakow said. Eight cars were later found damaged, he said. 
After the three students got out of the car, two of them climbed a tree 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
while the other stood. at its b:tS'e, Rakow said. All three appeared in­toxicated. 
One of the officers responding to the call approached and then ap­prehended one of the students, he said. The other two then assaulted the officer and all three fled. Security officers later found the students by using the car's registration, he said. 
The officer was taken to the St. joseph's Medical Center after the incident, Rakow said. He was released later that day after being treated for bruises, abrasions and an injured knee, he said. 
Sports writer Mar~}' Burns con­tributed to this report. 
• UnltadWay 

Thanks toyou... for ALLOF US A it works... IJnlblld way • 

Get in on the action! 
-·~ Obsener_ 
News department 
is looking for dedicated students with a friendly voice to assign and verify stories over the phone. Must work well with people! Apply for 
•Day Editor Typist also needed 
Contact lynne Strand by 4pm Thursday at the Observer office 3rd floor Lafortune 239·5303 
The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 
The Wav of the Cross 
According to the Gospel of Mark 

Adaptation and Lyrics by Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25,26 
General Admission $4 
Group rates available 
Call (219) 239-5957 
CUT 
THE COST 

DURING NUVISION'S SPRING SALE. 

F ES 
SAVE~6S4Q 
WHEN YOU BUY PRESCRIPTION LENSES. 
CONTACTS 
SAVE S4Q SAVE s20 
ON '=XTENDED-ON CLEAR DAILY­WEAR CCx-.JTACTS.t WEAR CONTACTS.t 
Eye ,..xan•ination extra. Available by 
independent licensed optometrist. 
OtTer good ol por!i~ ipoling ollices only. Some restrictions apply. tOll regu.ar price ot replacement lenses. 
CUT EVEN MORE WITH THESE SPRING SALE COUPONS. 
-------I ---·---r -----T -----­25% OFF ISAVE SS!XJI 50% OFF ISAVE SS!XJ 
CONTACT LENS 1 BIFOCALS 1 TINTING 1 LIFELENS® PLUS 
SUPPLIES I This coupon good for ss.00 I With purchase of a com-I LIMITED 
Choose from our entire Ioff the regular charge 1plete pair ~f pres~ription 1 \AI 
selection of contact lens I f~r glass or plastic-lens I eyeglasseswithplastlclens-I vv'ARRANJX 
solutions and care kits. bifocals. es .. C?upon good for a Protect your lenses w1th our OFFER EXPIRES MAY 10. 19861OFFER EXPIRES MAY 10, 19861 SOlid tint 1n any color. I scratch-reSIStant and UVI I OFFER EXPIRES MAY 10. 1986l coating.lifelens® Plus limit­edwarrantyguarantees yourI I I lenses aqainst scratching for 1 1 I the life of your prescription. 

/ OFFER EXPIRI:S MtW 10, 1986 

~~ 
I I 
~~ I ~~-I I 
~ --~---­



THE SCIENCE OF BETTER VISION. THE ART OF LOOKING GOOD. 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 University Park Mall277-8682 McKinley Town &Country 256·1864 Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012 Niles, 1012 Main Street, 684-8008 
Accent 
Monday, Apri114, 1986-page 5 

No one ever promised a rose garden 
this. They (South Bend) only have What about South Benders who
ROBIN SQUYRES 

two shopping malls, the movies are are also Domers? How do they feel 
features writer 

old, the people are boring. when their hometown is ridiculed, How many times have you slamm­Downtown is stagnant, totally lax. or even they themselves as South ed South Bend's beautiful weather, This place lacks what I really like to Bend natives are viciously chewed 
see in atown, life," says Glucose .. on?
exotic night life or cultural dif­

ferences? Notre Dame and South Well, Glucose may be a little harsh "Most of it is taken in jest," says
Bend-a match made in heave. in her criticism, but she did have Peter Melsa, a South Bend native
No? some nice things to say. "There's no traffic -that's very nice." 

Like Glucose, everyone has at some time in his Notre Dame career made some snide comment concer­ning the town of South Bend. The typical objections involve the weather and the social life. 
"I'm glad I only have to live here nine months out of the year," says Jeff Torres, a Keenan Hall resident from Hawaii. "You can't do anything in this town. I go to bars, to the U.P. mall, that's about it. There's nothing off campus to go to." 
"Compared to home, this is not me," says Andrew Ho, a junior also from Hawaii. "I think the worst thing is the weather. Also, the bars 

Peter Me/sa Rebecca Goerner 
aren't very good; they're too crowd­ed and run-down. They need more
Your "typical" Domer, Jenny and a junior in St. Ed's Hall.
cultural things to do. They also
Glucose (name slightly altered for "Regardless of where they're going 
need to build a beach." 
the protection of those involved), to school, they're going to make offers her opinions ont he bustling jokes about the town. I don't take
Obviously, South Bend will never 
metropolis that is Notre Dame's it personally. If they come from a
get a beach. But people do realize 
home. big town, they don't know what
that South Bend is ... South Bend. 
they can do. South Bend obviously 
"The whole area can't change for a 
"To sum it up in one phrase, I doesn't compare.with New York."
few people," says Michael 
think it's terrible. Due to the lack Gotuaco, a senior in Keenan. 

of social alternatives, we are left Daniel Kloc, a senior in Zahm with those awful corner bars. "It's a nice little town for the Hall says, "People ask, 'Is your dad When I first got here, I thought, I Midwest," says Walter Hart, a a professor here?' They think can't believe I'm going to places like senior in Grace Hall. everybody here from South Bend is 
Murphy's Law and other rules to guide your life 

THE BOOKSTORE BASKET­BALL RULE -"No name too
Kris Murphy 

sleazy." 
THE MA BELL CLAUSE -"A
Altered 

ringing telephone heard from down the hall will stop ringing as soon as a hand is placed on it."
KHADAFY'S CLAUSE

"Whatever can go wrong, will THE ETHANOL RULE -"My
"Shoot first, make inane excuses
and at the worst possible moment." Domer wears ethanol or he wears
later." Or, "Make my bay."
This is Murphy's law. nothing at all." 
THE ALL-NIGHTER LAW ­
My name is Murphy but I'm not NASA'S LAW -"What goes up
"Never to bed, always to rise,
responsible for it. In fact, I don't must come down."
makes all Domers close their eyes." 
even like this law because it's really CAFETERIA LAW -"What is 

negative. We Murphys are general­LETIERMAN'S LAW -"Time left over must be eaten." Or, "Eat it ly a positive bunch but there's flies when you're unconscious." 
before it eats you." 
always one loser in any group. It 

DIGGER'S DICTUM -"Don't THE OBSERVER EXCUSE ­was probably my great-great-great­go back to Little Rock." "Khadafy sabotaged our typeset­grandfather because he left his 
PROCRASTINATOR'S LAW ter."
family in Ohio to go and fight for -"He who hesitates can think THE SAINT MARY'S 

the South in the Civil War, and he 

about it later, maybe." STATUTE -''The road to an all­ended up getting killed. He also THE STARSHIP AMEND­women's college is never long." Or, drank a lot so he probably made MENT -"If they play 'Sara' one "Man cannot live on Notre Dame the story up. 
more time I'm sending a bomb women alone." 
This, however, is neither here threat to Zip 104." THE PARTY CLAUSE -"Ear­nor there (nor anywhere). The real THE NOTRE DAME LAUN­ly to bed and early to rise makes a purpose of today's column is to DRY LAW -"Why send back two man healthy, wealthy and socially make you aware of many other socks when you can lose one?" retarded." rules, laws and clauses that will MARTIN NULL'S LAW -THE BORDERLINE be both informative and conducive "Writing about music is like danc­ALCOHOLIC RULE -"The only to better living. Actually, if you ing about architecture." good beer can is an empty beer were interested in being informed THE CHEAP BEER RULE -can." or in living your life better you'd ig­"The beer that made Milwaukee THE SOUTH BEND nore my column. But since you're famous also makes your liver curl WEATHER RULE-"To activate here anyway, we11 begin. up and die." frost, wear shorts." 
a professor's kid." Yes, there really are ''real people" from South Bend. 
Kloc agrees with Melsa about the insults that are hurled. "You com­plain about the dining hall because it's a dining hall. People complain about South Bend because it's the thing to do." 
Peter Kolettis, a Morrissey Hall resident, says he took most of the obnoxiousness during freshman year. "Whenever the weather was bad, people would look at me, 'You have the sh--tiest weather,' and I would say I didn't order the weather ... I would just laugh." 
Concerning  the  social  apathy,  
Kolettis thinks things  are  actually  
improving.  "There  are  lots  of  

places around-things to do. Peo­ple are staritng to discover other places to go. But what do you want? You can't expect the same number of things as in a big city." 
"People tend to look at South Bend as the mall and Corby's and they never really see the rest of it. They don't give it a chance," says Richard Michalak. 
1 he most annoying thing to many South Bend students is when the criticism comes from "people from Osh Kosh, Wisconsin," as Michalak put it. 
"You get ticked off when the peo­ple (who criticize) come from smaller towns themselves," laughs Rebecca Goerner, a sophomore. I just ignore it. Sure, the social aspect is lacking, but you get that a lot of places." 
South Benders know this is not a fast-paced town. "It's not exactly the most exciting town on earth," agrees Adam Milani. Michalak points out, "I have to go to the same bars as anyone else." 

Milani suggested there is stuff to do, if you just look a little. "A lot of people don't know about things like the dunes at Lake Michigan. There are also some good restaurants around." 
Richard Michalak 
"The whole bit about South Bend being so blah.... lbey should find something to do, not gripe," says Gotuaco, a non-South Bender. 
Hey, South Bend is not perfect, we all agree on that. But where is perfection? So have you hugged a South Bender today? Have a heart-they do live in this, uh, con­servative place all the time. Go ahead, make their day. Say something nice about the ... traf­fic, perhaps. 


THE GQ LAW -"Great minds disproportion to the speed you dress alike." think you're going." 
THE CEMENTHEAD CLAUSE -"Small minds have great delu­THE ALTERED CLAUSE ­sions." "This column is only as good as the 
THE SPEEDING STATUTE­man who writes it." (That means "The speed you're going is in direct it's really good.) 

Monday, Aprill4, 1986-page 6 
Blacks in South Africa have right to democracy 
Do the lines "When in the Course ofhuman events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws ofNature and of Nature's God entitle them" sound familiar? Have you ever read the Declaration of Independence? In the times of the 1700s, when the American coloniesfelt oppressed by the English government, we felt it was not only our right, but our job to declare our in­dependence from these oppressive structures. "But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably·the same 
Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to to throw offsuch Government." 
Heidi Cerneka 
simply said 

And we were justified. The majority of people in the colonies were not in agreement with the policies ofthe government and were being treated unfairly. Well, is there any dif­ference between our steps for freedom and the steps of the black citizens ofSouth Africa? In fact, the Congress of the People in Klip­town, South Africa adopted their own 
What sort of political party would hold these views? Queen Elizabeth is an interna­tional drug trafficker and is plotting the destruction of the United States. 
"Zionists" are planning to take over the world with the assistance of the KGB and British intelligence. Other conspiracies against the world involve such figures as Henry Kissinger and Walter Mondale. 
The street executions of drug dealers will stop the flow ofdrugs into our nation. 
Jews founded the Ku Klux Klan. Adolf Hitler was a correspondent for the New York Times. The Holocaust was a hoax. 
Eric M. Hergamo here's to future days 
Only lunatics would hold these views. Cor­rect? 
Wrong. 
These are the political views ofthe National Democratic Policy Committee headed by Lyndon H. LaRouche, Jr. 
With the election of Mark Fairchild and Janice Hart, two members ofthe NDPC, to the Illinois Democratic guberatorial ticket, the nation has come face to face with the insane, lunatic beliefs ofLyndon LaRouche. 
It is time for America to stop LaRouche now, before his views rock the political atmo­sphere ofour nation. 
One can ask how Fairchild and Hart, with such extremist views, got elected in the first place? How could any intelligent voter cast his ballot for a party whose views have been called "ultracrazy?" 
voters in lllinolS were deceived by the 

NDPC's disguising their extreme stances on freedom cf'!arter in 1955. For over thirty years they have been struggling to make it a reality. One difference between them and us is that the blacks in South Africa are even less free than we were. 
I realize that much has been '''lritten already in defense of the South Africans, but until something changes, more needs to 'be said. Their freedom charter begins "We, the People ofSouth Africa, declare for all our country and the world to know: That South Africa belongs to all who live in it, black and white, artd that no government can justly claim authority un­less it is based on the will of all the people." That is asking no more than simple recogni­tion as human beings and a voice in the government. In the charter, the Congress calls for nine basic human rights. Among these are that "the people shall govern! ... All national groups shall have equal rights! The land shall be.shared among those who work it! There shall be work and security! The doors oflearn­ing and ofculture shall be opened!" ' 
In the United States, do we not demand that we, as citizens, have a voice in our govern­ment? Do we not call democracy "rule by the people"? Yet we do not demand them for citizens ofother countries. The blacks h~ve no voice in their government. We are introduc· ing a double standard that what is not allowed in our country can be allowed in others. 
The South Africans call for the right to share the land they work. According to the Labor 
popular issues. Fed up with Chicago's ward politics, they voted against "real" Democrats. They voted for the NDPC's candidates be­cause they had nice "American" names. 
But their views are definitely not American. Their views are twisted, inane, fanatical. 
Hopefully, those voters will realize the grave mistake that they made in supporting the candidates of a man who is violently anti· Semitic, who claims the Nazis killed "only" a million and a half jews, a man who is sur­rounded by armed guards, and terrorizes those who speak out against him. Hope­fully,the voters will learn that they erred in electing candidates who publicly denounce their opponents as wimps and drug dealers. 
The fact that LaRouche's candidates won in 
Illinois may actually be a godsend. With the 
publicity now focused on LaRouche and his 
fanatical brand of politics,people can be in­
formed about him and know what strange 
views his followers hold. They can also know 
not to vote for LaRouche candidates. Their 
victory in Illinois may become their final 
defeat. Their crazy brand of politics is out in 
the open for all to see. 

Ronald Reagan unknowingly described LaRouche when he blasted Mummar Khadafy. "He's flaky," said the President. With LaRouche's ideas, it is no wonder that tlte statement fits him perfectly. 
But this is America and our Constitution 
guarantees the right for LaRouche and his fol­
lowers to continue to espouse views that are 
nonsense and gobbledygook. 

And we have the right to not cast our vote 
for people such as LaRouche. 

Eric M. Bergamo is a sophomore govern­ment major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
Doonesbury 
Pit'!?£ WJ.CK,CBMPEI?S. MY PRD­Wc:cR J/JJ<E ANIJI (QEJ<E JlJ5T 
TAlKJN6 ABOl/T 7H£3 lATC5T APMINISlRATIQV SCANatlL, 7H5 CW& INVO/)//N6 CIVIL. RIGHTS CHIEF a.ARI3NCE Pf3NlJi&7DN. 
/ 

IT REM/N{)E{)Me 7HAT ff'SA80lff TIM8 FOR.AN UPIJIJ:Tc CF (}(JR RIJNNING TAUY CFFEJ'6ANAPPONT­
r:es Q-IIJI?6W/AJ/l}{ I£6:U. a< ETfi/CAL M15CON{)(JCT. 
/ 
Research Association. blacks account for 72 percent or all South African workers, but receive less than 30 percent of all wages paid out. In most major industries, black wages are only 20 to 2 5 percent of all white wages. Im­agine making only 20 percent of even mini­mum wage, or 25 percent of S5 an hour. How many people would accept a job for S 1.25 an hour? If-someone tried to pay many ofus that, we would fight for the rights to the money we earn. Yet, it is alright for the South African blacks to be paid that. It is OK for them to work on land they will never own, for someone else's profit. 
I am aware that not even every job in South Bend has just wages for its workers, but at least in the United States these people have a chance to fight for better wages. 
"The doors of learning and of culture shall be opened!" The people are only asking that their cultural experience be recognized and they are asking that "education (shall) be free, compulsory, universal and equal for all children." According to the Economic Notes of the Labor Research Association, education is very limited for the Africans. White farmers in an area have the power to decide whether or not a S(:hool may exist, and even if one does, often children have to be pulled out at harvest time to work. Once again, the double standard appears very clearly. All of our children have compulsory education, but it is OK if another country does not allow this. 
DearEdttor: 

On February 22, 1979, Cavanaugh lost ahall president, Andy Sowder from Idalou, Texas. It was the saddest experience ofmy tenure here in Cavanaugh. Some of you know the story; most ofyou do not. 
Andy went on our annual skiing trip that February and was brought back when he took 
ill. ThJs was on a Friday night. He was taken to the infirmary with what was thought to be a severe case of the tlu. On Sunday, his condi­tion worsened; he had severe head and neck pains and was rushed to St. joseph's Hospital where tests showed he had a virulent form of spinal meningitis. By this time he was in a coma from which he never recovered. His parents arrived that day and the dorm began a 24 hour vigil, with the parents, in the hospital. We held special liturgies in Sacred Heart Church to accommodate the large numbers from all over campus who knew Andy and who prayed for his recovery. 
On Thursday of that week, Andy's parents and I made a decision to see if he could live without the life support systems. He couldn't: Finally, his parents decided to try one more time. Andy died that Thursday after receiving the Last Rites of the Church. Twice Sacred Heart Church was packed with sympathizers for Andy and his family. Father Hesburgh and many other administrators attended the last service we had for Andy. I can never forget those sad days. A delegation ofsix members of the dorm attended the funeral in Texas where we were welcomed like members of the family by what seemed like the entire popula­tion ofthat little Texas town. 
Andy was a senior when he died. He was very talented. Offers for jobs kept coming in months after his death and I had the sad task of responding, at the request ofhis parents. I can honestly say that Andy Sowder was one ofthe 
By not actively doing something to halt the oppression of So&ath African blacks, we are supporting it. Thomas More once said that silence is assent. Are we assenting to the in­justices that are right now happening in that country? I do not think so, however, unless we act, our words hold no weight. As-much as both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's claim that they wish to keep their investments to use as leverage against the South African corpora-' tions, how much have they used that leverage? How many improvements have thus far been affected because Saint Mary's and Notre Dame are applying pressure? We need to apply our own pressure to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame to take money out ofthese countries and put it into alternate investments. Saint Mary's faculty has already passed a resolution to advise divestment to the Board of Regents. The student body likewise circulated a peti­tion last week. And therefore, as a student of Saint Mary's, I am hoping that we, the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community join the "People ofSouth Africa, black and white toget­her · equals, countrymen and brothers · (in) adopting this Freedom Charter. And we (the people of South Africa) pledge ourselves to suive together, sparing neither strength nor courage, until the democratic changes set out here have been won." 
Heidi Cernenka is a junior religious studies major at Sa'int Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone." 
John 8:7 

5/,UfTCH
I£T'5 IQAI?C IN 
105­
lP 7DaJR. ARM­

SECJ:N)
PI~, 5HAU. we~ 

!BAY!
I I 

"ielVP-_O_i_n_t____________________________________________M_o_nd_a~y~,A~p~r_il_14~,_1_98_6_-~pa~g~e7 
Classes will suffer from checkmarking limits 
Perhaps my previous comments in these columns have misjudged the Universitys' ad­ministrators. just two months after I com­plained about 411 Dome, a gang of workingmen reconstructed that classroom. Within a week after I complained about the stuttering lights in 106 Cushing, somebody fixed them all, only two years after I filed my first request that they be repaired. Had I been just a bit more patient, my every wish would have been fulfilled. 
Fr. Robert Kerby guest column 
A letter mailed by the Registrar on 10 February did, however, test my new found geniality. The letter advised departmental chairman that because the "Provost's Ad­visory Committee (which includes that academic deans) would like to reduce the number of checkmark courses to a mini­mum," the Registrar "will only retain check­marking for multisection courses. Registration for all others courses will follow the University priority system." 
Upon first seeing a bootleg copy of the let­ter smuggled to me from another deparmtnet, my initial reaction was one of dismay. Granted, checkmarking is inconvenient for many students. Granted, there is much to be said for the Provost's Committee's objective. Yet my dismay was nonetheless profound upon discovering that nobody whom I have yet asked knows what the University priority system is. 
All kinds ofproblems occurred to me. Teac­hers teaching seminars for history majors assume that the students already know the dif­ference between President james K. Polk and a Shang Dynasty bronze pot; but if the registrar now proposes to stuffpoets, geology majors, accountants and sculptors into his­tory's seminars for majors, perhaps we teac­hers will have to rewrite our notes and spend ten or fifteen precious class minutes explain­ing a few historical-type fundamentals. Lecture courses designed for specific con­stituencies may likewise have to be reconstructed: the military jargon suitahle for ROTC bloodthirsty budding strategists may not communicate meaning to droves of philosophers and microobiologists squeezed into a military history course. I 
But I am now learning to trust my leaders. The repairs in 4 11 and 106 testify that they have more foresight than I do. For example, at first I worried that open enrollments would make a shambles of courses in which I make extensive use blackboards. I use blackboards a lot, to describe such things as the moving boundaries of the Louisiana Purchase or General Twigg's ftanking maneuver at Cerro Gordo. I fill the blackboards up. The black­board in 106 Cushing measures 42 inches by 340 inches, and I still fill it up. My scribblings are barely visible from the sixth row of stu­dent chairs, the rear row in the room. Hence I checkmark courses taught there so that no students will have to go through life without 
knowing  where  Nebraska  is,  or  without  
knowing  how  a  certain  goat  trail  curled  
around  Santa  Anna's  battle  line.  The  

Registrar's announcement filled me with fear that hundreds of ~tudents miaht cram into such a course,perforce makillg it impossible to explain .Nebraska or Cerro Gordo as anything but abstract concepts, disincarnated Platonic ideals like the Good, the Bad and the Ugly. My fear was multiplied when a friend who knows a fellow named Isaac Newton explained that doubling the distance of the last row of stu· dents would necessitate quadrupling the area of the blackboard. Off hand, I cannot think of any blackboards on campus measuring 7 feet by 56.6 feet. 
But, as I say, I doubtless underestimate me leaders. The decision to open my courses to random enrollment must involve a commit· ment by the Registrar to build new classrooms to accommodate all the students. Ifl can teach 80students with the blackboards I now have, I shall be given blackboards 7 by 57 feet big to teach 160. If 320 students enroll, I shall be granted a classroom with blackboards 14 feet hish and about 20 feet longer than a basketball court. The promise embodied in the Registrar's new policy is stunning indeed. 
Yet perhaps I still underestimate the ramifications of the Dome's brilliant vision. 
Truth to say,like many specialists I amtrapped by the conventions of my specialty: it would never occur to me, as a mere historian, to tell physicists to teach thdr respective dis­ciplines. The assumption of pedagogical om· niscience by the denizens of the Dome can mean only one thing: that this University Renaissance administrators now know, better that the University's entire collective as­sembly of overspecialized PhDs, how best to teach everything. Byopening historians' semi­nars to non-historians, the Administration merely challenges narrowminded historians to redefine historical scholarship._Bv making history lecture courses so big that it becomes impossible to correct essays, the Dome just teacheS us that all human affairs may be reduced to true-false answers. By telling his­torians that words alone can convey all his­torical realities, the Administration informs historians that time and space and details and particulars are no longer historically relevant. What the new policy must convey to other, more sophisticated disciplines just boggles the mind. 
Still, I no longer despair. Given the rate at which administrators have been reproducing lately, the new policy can only mean that the Administration has mutated a new species of University administrators, superior homo saps who truly do know everything about everyth­ing. They can, therefore, define the pedagogi· cal parameters for every course in every field, without asking the profs who teach. That's really wonderful. 
Consider the possibilities. 

First, since only the new species of ad­ministrators know everything, soon only they will teach. Classes will soon consist of a daily convocation ofthe entire student body in the ACC, at which one administrator, with or wit· hout a very big blackboard, will expound on Life:, the Universe and Everything. 
Second, if the daily convocations are scheduled at lunch and dinnertime, the Uni· versity can save money by shutting down the dining halls, which will also reduce the com­plaints about the quality of dining hall cooking. 
Third, the omniscient administrators' one big course will make the most of the overspe­cialized teaching faculty redundant. The Uni­versity can save more money by firing most of us. No doubt associate profs ofhistory will be at the head ofthe unemployment line. 
Fourth, liquidation of most of the teaching faculty will permit wholesale conversion of faculty offices and classrooms into ad· ministrative cubbyholes and social space. The perpetual ftoating ongoing constitutional con­ventions of Student Governemeni can deliberate more comfortably by occupying the vacated Faculty Senate chamber. 
Fifth, the University can concentrate ex­clusively upoin chairing proven Nobel prizewinners, funded by generous philanthropists. The chaired Nobel prizewin­ners, no longer distracted by students, can devote 64 hours a day, 11· days a week, to polishing the University's image by doing real heavy research. Elimination of teachers will, of course, automatically zap the troublesome lingering theoretical distinction between faculty who teach and faculty who do respctable things, a consummation devoutly to be wished by all, no doubt. 
Sixth, since administrators will no longer have to waste time scheduling classes and counting credits and doing other student oriented stuff, the Administration can devote all its time to scrounging grants for the chaired Nobel prizewinners and inViting rich contdbutors to give speeches at gradua­tion ceremonies. These tasks will, of course, necessitate hiring and tiding a lot more ad· ministrators, another consummation devoutly to be wished, surely. 
And so forth. I hesitate to say more, because the vision of a benighted homo sap still wal­lowing in the mundane caimot possibly en­compass the unbounded perspective enjoyed only by the administrators viewing the future from the Dome. This must be true, because administrators who know everything never bother to ask teacher' opinions about anyth­ing. If they did, teachers would not have to plumb the Dome's mind about pedagogical policies by hijacking bootleg copies ofpolicy statements from alien departments. 
Father Kerby is a professor in the depart­ment ofhistory atNotre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Discrimination wrong no matter who is target 
DearEditor: 
I never thought I would find myself speak­ing as an advocate for gay rights. However, dis­crimination should be condemned no matter what group it is directed toward. I was shocked to read the close-minded editorial in the April 4 issue of The Observer. It is ridiculous to think that the student govern­ment's attempt to discourage discrimination in its constitution could be seen as transform­ing that constitution into "an obscene rag." 
Discrimination is wrong. Over the past years, this has been realized in regard to sex, religion, and race. It apparently has not been recognized in regard to sexual orientation. Discrimination in this case is even more inex­cusable, because sexual preference is a per­sonal and private matter. As long as that preference does not interfere with an in­dividual's ability to perform his or her job, it is as irrelevant as one's skin color. 
The equation of "sexual orientation" with "homosexual perversion" was laughable. First, the context in which "sexual orienta­tion" was used meant heterosexuality as well as homosexualtiy. Secondly, homosexualtiy has not i:>een considered a "sexual perver­sion" since 1973, when the American Psyc­hological Association removed it from the list of psychiatric illnesses, stating: "Homosexualtiy...is a sexual variation well within tthe normal range of psychological functioning" 
Finally, the Catholic Church does not con­sider homosexual orientation immoral. Only homosexual acts (there is a difference) are considered immoral, because they "lack an es· sential and indispensable finality," i.e. procreation. 
Ifour student representatives have any kind of leadership abiltiy, they will continue to oppose discrimination on the basis of sex, creed, race, national origin, age, disability, and sexual orientation. It will truly show them as informed and intelligent representatives of the Notre Dame student body as a whole. 
Mark Rabogliatti LJWonHall 
Phone-a-thon aids Women's Care Center 
DearEditor: 
The Women's Care Center 1986 phone-a­thon is complete. For those who may not know of the Center, it is a pro-life pregnancy help center in South Bend which was started by members of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right-To-life just two years ago. Each year the Women's Care Center raises half its annual operating budget through the phone-a-thon. This year, over 7,000 potential donors were called. During the two-and-a-half weeks of calling, a total of 125,527 was pledged. 
As the phone-a-thon coordinator I'd like to thank everyone who gave to the phone-a· thon. Special thanks are due to the Develop­ment Office at Notre Dame for donating the use of its offices and phones, and to Dr. Hickey and the St. Mary's Duplicating Depart· ment for printing all ofthe brochures and en­velopes needed free of charge. These gifts saved the Center several thousand dollars. 
Can you imagine calling 7,000 people? It would have been impossible without the ef­forts of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right· To-life und_gthe capable leadership of Terry Donovan and Bill Ryder Right-To-Life provided most of the 150 students. Each stu· dent spent several hours soliciting pledges. These students took valuable time from studies to help a wonhy cause. Callers came from every dorm, but several dorms deserve special attention for providing the greates_t number of callers: Alumni, Flanner, Fisher, Pasquerill<~ west, and I<&.~ nan. Dillon Hall, in 
addition to calling, provided 25 people who spent many hours preparing donor informa­tion. Thanks to Andre Hutchinson for organiz­ing the Dillon group. Another thirty students spent time stuffing and labeling envelopes prior to the phone-a-thon. To all who called, stuffed and helped prepare lists: thank you. 
In conjunction with the phone-a-thon, Uni­versity Ministries organized a second collec­tion for the Women's Care Center at the Notre Dame dorm masses and in Sacred Heart Church. The Center received $1,746 through this offering. Father Hesburgh also gave a donation. These donations are a sacrifice for 
many. 

In sum, The Women's Care Center succeeded in raising 527,273. These funds will allows us to continue to serve hundreds of women and girls who often find themselves in desperate situations, in need of respect, 
love, and support. The Women's Care Center also speaks for the unborn by talking to women and men about the serious conse­quences of abortion they may not have con· sidered themselves. We reach these people with your help! God blessed the Women's Care Center with the very generation donors and volunteers. Again, thank you. 
Michael Miller Phone-a-thon Coordinator Women's Care Center 
Viewpoint 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
General Board 
The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief...... .......... : .. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............. : . Scott Bearby Production Manager. . . . .... Chns Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager ..... ..... James Carroll The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­
Accent Editor. .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan
sity of Notre Dame du lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Ed1tor.... . . . . Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .......... Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported as accurately Executive News Editor · Frank Llpo 
Systems Manager. . . . .. David Thornton 
and objectively as possible. Uns1gned editorials represent the op1nion of a ma1ority of News Ed1tor . . . . . . . . . ....... Tr1pp Baltz Graphtc Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
. 
The Observer Monday, April 14, 1986 -page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame baseball teallldropped three games at Xavier this weekend. On Saturday, the Irish split a doubleheader with the Musketeers, losing the opener, 15-3, and winning the nightcap, 7-5. Yesterday the Irish lost twice by scores of 7-5 and 5-2 and are now 15-15 ( 1-3 in the MCC North Division) on the season. -The Observer 
In The National League yesterday, Pittsburgh blanked Chicago, 8-0; Montreal edged St. Louis, 3-2; Philadelphia downed New York. 4-2; Atlanta downed Houston, 8-7; Los Angeles squeaked past San Francisco, 3-2; and San Diego slid by Cincinnati, 7-6. -AP 
In the American League yesterday, New York beat Milwaukee, 3-2; Cleveland downed Detroit, 8-2; Seattle knocked off Minnesota, 4-2; Boston blasted Chicago, 12-2; Kansas City beat Toronto, 7-4; Baltimore edged Texas, 3-2 and Oakland out­lasted California, 1 1-7. -AP 
In the NHL play offs, Philadelphia swamped the New York Rangers, 7-1, and Minnesota beat St. Louis, 7-4. Both ofthe best-of-five divisional semifinals are tied at two games apiece. -AP 
A Bengal Bouts Banquetwill be held Thursday, April 17, at St. Hedwigs Church. Semi-formal attire is requested. For more information call Kevin O'Shea at 283-3182 or Tom Newell at 283-4115. ·The Observer 
Any SMC varsity athleteinterested in applying for president of the Student Athletic Council may pick up an application form at Angela Athletic Facility. The deadline for returning forms is Wednesday, April 16. ·The Obseroer 
The ND windsurfing club will meet Wednes­day, April 16, at 7 p.m. in the Lafortune Little Theater. Anyone in­terested in learning how to windsurf is invited. For more information call Kevin Laracey at 283-1148. -The Observer 
The An Tostal slam dunk contestwill hold 
sign-ups tomon-ow and Wednesday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Lafortune 
information desk. The event takes place April 23 at 2 p.m. and both 
men and women are invited to participate at either the nine-foot or 
10-foot level. For more information call Dan Sullivan at 283-1184.­
The Observer 

Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number ofthe person submitting it.-The Observer 
Nicklaus wins 6th Masters title 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. ·Jack Nicklaus, in perhaps the finest hour of a career unmatched in golf history, barged out of an international pack yester­day to score his sixth Masters vic­tory in the 50th renewal of the revered tournament. 
The legendary Golden Bear, at 46 a frustrated non-winner for two seasons, turned back the clock with a 7-under-par 65, including a thun­dering 30 over the back nine at the Augusta National Golf Club course. 
He did it the hard way. 
In one of the most dramatic tournaments in the history ofthis an­cient game, he had to play his way past eight of the most accomplished 
Bookstore 
continued/rom page 12 
shots, making five. The strategy paid off, what a shooting percentage!! 
Zero was a very popular number for P.C. Labs Play Bookstore Again. The team went 0-for-6. As a result, they had 0 points and a shooting percentage of 0. They lost 21 to 0 and have 0 confidence in their bas­ketball playing ability. It must have been a fun tournament for them. 
We Want To Play The Admission Staffmust have been out to lunch be­cause they_ never even showed up 
Stepan 1 4:00-We've Had NO Chicks v. Ballroom 4:45· Where'i the Jullicev. Look at castiga 
5:30 ·Challenger. Go With Full Throttle v. Orien­tal Express 6:15· JFK, ... v.lf Beads Had Played He'd Have Played for Us 
Stepan2 
4:00 • NADS v. Sometimes the Best Things in Life Cost $10 
4:45 ·Johnny Wad & 4 Other Lesser Known Porn Stars v. Betti Lou 
5:30 • Magic Dick & the 4 Skins v. 5 White Guys Who Never Get Cheated 
6:15 ·Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers v. 
Dave's Heavy Towing St.pan3 
4:00 • 5 Flannerites Who Hate Pam ... v. Cat­herine the Great Meets Mr. Ed . 
4:45 ·Revenge Factor v. Chaotic OsdMations 
5:30 • The BearllfS of the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch v. Festering Sores 

performers in the game today. 
That he won it on the strength ofa last-hole bogey by the hawk-faced Australian Greg Norman detracted not at all from the drama of the 
tournament  nor  the  magnitude uf  
his accomplishment.  
Norman,  playing  well  behind  

Nicklaus on a sunny, hot spring day, was the last man to challenge. 
He came surging up those final, hilly holes on a string of four con­secutive birdies that began on the 14th. When Norman dropped a putt of about I 5 feet on the 17th · with Nicklaus' round long finished and his 72-hole total of 279 on the board · Norman had achieved a tie for the lead at nine under par. 
The powerful man known as "The 
for their game. The Pride is Back eventually figured out the fact that We Want To Play The Admission Staff was not going to show up and declared themselves the winners. 
The hot shooter of the weekend played for Dashingly Suave and Dis­armingly Charming. Mark Erpelding shot l-for-38 from the field. He must have been more interested in com­bing his hair so he could live up to his team's name. But a brillant shoot­ing performance by John Coveny lead Dashingly Suave and Disarm­ingly Charming to an eventual vic­tory. Coveny shot 7-of-32 from the field. Who were they playing, Little Sisters of the Poor? 
Great White Shark" needed only a par on the 18th to tie and force a playoff. A birdie would win it. 
But, with Nicklaus and his caddy~ son Jack Jr. watching, Norman pushed his second shot into the gallery. His sun-bleached head bowed in self-inflicted misery. 
Norman pitched down the slope to 18-20 feet, then missed the par putt and Nicklaus was a winner again in one of the greatest golf tourna­ments ofall time. 
Norman had a closing 70 for a 280 total. 
He was tied at that figure, a single stroke back, with Tom Kite, the gutsy little man who has played so well so often on Augusta's flowered hills yet always has come up empty. 
In today's action, one of the top seeded teams, Lee's BBQ, will face 5 Guys That Smell the Glove at 6: 1 5 on Lyon's Court ll. Also, Captain Kirk beams down again to face 4 People And A Short Fat Guy on Lyon's Court 12 at 6:1 5. On the North Quad, Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamers 
will face Dave's Heavy Towing on Stepan Court 2 at 6:1 5. On Stepan Court 6 at 4:00, 4 Fags and a Zahmbie meet We're Not Going To Make It Past The I st Round So Why Think Up a Clever Name, obviously a team with tremendous potential. The second Round is underway, beam me down Scotty. 

The second round begins ••• 
6:15-Flpper & the 4 Guys Who Bark ... v. 5 Guys Without Liberty Bowl ... Stepan4 
4:00 -Bob & 4 Guys Who Wouldn't PuU His Finger ... v. Sorry About That Now .. 4:45-Multiple Orgasm Addicts v. Eagles 5:30-The Velvet Buzz Saws v. Dulac .... 6:15-Snackers v. Kennan Inmates II 
Stepan5 4:00-Hill's Billies v. 5 Guys With Good Moves But No Penetration 
4:45 • 5 Scuzzballs All Covered in Sin v. The Geoff Peters Fan Club 
5:30 -Gnomes From Hell v. 5 Stiffs GenHy Ribbed lor the True Feeling ... 6:15-Joaephus & the Ethiopian Shim Sham v. HelpI 
Stepan6 4 Fags &a Zahmbie v. We're Not Going to Make It Past the First Round . 
4:45 ·Transport Phenomenon v. Revenge of the Butt-laced Sea Pigs 
5:30-Dick Proeen v. Sorry J.R. 6:15-Boys of Summerv. Big Mac & the Fries lookatoret 
4:00 -CUfornian Connection v. Spuds 4:45-Snafu v. Terrbulax 5:30-We Shoot Pool v. Our Best Team 
lookatore 10 
4:00 -Hi. Guys v. Sycamore Robbi 
4:45 ·We Are .. Who Are v. 5 Marines 5:30-Nutmeggers X v. Marty & 4 Other Guys 
Lyons 11 
4:00 • 4 Great Tragedies v. Danong Irish Dinglebemes Double Stuffs v. RAST A Man 
5:30 • F alae Sense ol Pride v. 4 Gaterunners 6:15-5 Guys That SmeH theGiovev. Lee's BBQ 
Lyona12 4 00-Zoota Roota v. A Team 
4:45 ·Dealers v. You See Us 
5:30 ·The Fellas v. Now We Go To School 
6:15 ·Capt. Kirk v. 4 People & a Short Fat Guy 

7bt• Oh.~t'rl't'r :\otn· I>.Jrnt· olfitt· lot ..11nl 1111 till tlurd lloor "' l..ilorruru· '-tuLkn I < t·ntt· r . .Jttt·pt' t I..!''-tinI ath t'rt 1"n~ Ire •n1 •J .1 111 11111 II 1 p 111 \ 1• •miJ\ throu~h I ntlJ\ /he ( lhst'rr·er 'Jrnt \1..1n 'oftrt t lot Jtnl on tiH· thm.l tl'!"r ol IIJ~~Jr <ollqw < t'lllt'r .tt tt·pr... tiJ'''ti' d' lrt>111 I.! ~tl p 111 until ~ p 111 \Inn dJ\ thou~h I ndJ\ llt·JdiiiK l<~r m·" d.11 'l.t"rlinl' '' ~ p 111 \II tl.l'"linJ, mu't ht· prt·pard t·nlwr 111 pt·r..,. •n • •r IH rn.ul 1 ll.lr)!t '' lilt n11' pt·r II\ t' t hJr.lt tt·r, t:r da\ 
Classifieds 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16.040 ­Thank you, St. Jude.

RESPONSIBLE NO JUNIOR, female. wiH 
Apple I I I Syatem $59.2301yr. Now Hiring. Cal 805-687· sit with children (or house). perform 
Complete with 256K AAM. 6000 Ext. A-9834 for current federal list. 
86 SUBARU $6,243household chores, in return for room and\ NOTICES FOR RENT Clock/Calendar, numeric keypad. 
86 FIERO St,llt5
board. References available 283-2762. 
monitor, and built-in disk drive. System in· JEFFIE GRIFFIN-WONT the NAVY be
86 ORAND-AII St,llt5
··················. .... .......... ··-··· 
dudes a Service Contract covering all glad to SEE what a fine Officer and
86 SUNIIRD S8,11t5
Typing Available 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272-GOT TICKETS FOA COMMENCEMENT parts and labor through September 1986, Gen11eman (??!!) they'N soon be ge1­
88 FIREIIRD $10,585287-4082 6306 ?? Need 2 tix. WiH pay$$$. Call MARK at Haba Systems III E·Z Pieces integrated ting.Does dancing naked on top of an
86 MERCURY LYNX $5,8882287. 
word processor, spreadsheet and OSU girl's Cadillac sound familiar?WE
86 ESCORT SS,II87FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO database, Apple Access III communica­have a PHOTO of YOU.cutie.
86 OLDS CALAIS $8,189TYPING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 WORK WANTED HARD WORKING tions package and 4 expansion llols. 
88 HORIZON $6,500CALL CHRIS MAN NEEDS MONEY FOR GRAD Must sacrifice at $700. Add a ProFile 5Mb 'FROG LEOS FOR DINNER 
ACC APRIL 18TH 234-8817. Semi-furnished house good neighbor· SCHOOL. EXTERIOR PAINTING AND hard disk and interface for a ~ WITH A TOUCH OF UIIE... 
hood cal after 4 • 255-3684 2n-3604 ~NDSCAPING. GOOD price of $1,1 00. ProFile and interface JUST FOR THE HELLUVITII REFERENCES CALL DON (616-69!>­
separately for $500. For more information 
SENIOAI.......... SENIOAS 
Wordprocessing-Typing ROOM $100/110 277·2045 2369). 
or a demonstration call Mark at 23~5600 Moving to a new city?
272-8827 days or 233-8803 evenings. KHALIL SH .. you ·re an arrogant a--, & it 

Naad a roommate?
Summer School Rernal . Large 9 room Getting rid of your bike? Don't junk it! 
shows your insecurity. 

c...a Placement Services can help.
houM. 4 bdrms. carpeta & drapes. Near Donate it to a needy family. Call George at SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ 
Stop by or call 23•5200.
TypingiWordproceaing campus. Furnished or unfurnilhed. 272· 283-3457 for info. 
AND CREDIT! Ciff notea available. PAN­Thanks for making my week. I needed the 2n-8131 8185. 
DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. upper, and rm so glad that you are myADMINISTRATOR OF 233-2342 friend. You're ...FUN. Keep smihng, k1d.
SENIORS .......... SENIOAS 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Movl ng to a n-city?
PRO.TYPE -1 5 yrs. e11p. atudent & law NEED ONE OA TWO ROOMMATES Mature-minded individual to direct South Dad bought one too many. FOR SALE: OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS! 
papers. reeumes, dissertations 2n-. FOR NEXT YEAR. IN A HOUSE OFF OF Bend Area office of nation-wide educa­N..cla roommate? 
Brand new Macint011h carrying case. NEWSLETIER AVAIL. OBUD DESK 1st
C...a Placement Services can help.
5833. PORTAGE AVE NEAR MARTINS. $65 tionally oriented company. Respon­STILL IN BOX. NEVER USED. Cal Glenn FLOOR LaFORTUNE 
Stop by or c*l 23•5200.
OR $87/MO PLUS UTILITIES. CALL sibilities include, recruitment of studenla, at3451. NOW!!!
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL ROB (x1245) OR AOB (x1n2) supervilion of office and instructional MRS. COKER, 233-7009. staff. public relations & outreach to '77 DODGE, 51,000 MILES. BELONGED 
academic & bulineas communities. can­
TO MY GRANDMOTHER, GREAT l.AAURA-Do you know what Sunday is? 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for didates should have exceHent communi­SHAPE LITTLE RUST, P B., P.S., NEW ACCCARBALE a week at Fort Walton Beach. South cationl & problem solving skills. 
BATTERY. BIG BACK SEAT FOR S.Y.R APRIL 18TH David Rusnak. You're too cute ..and tooPadre llland and Daytona Beech1 Huny, demonatrative leederahip ability. ex­DATES ASKING $1 ,200 (NEGOTIABLE.) CALL MARIO MANTA lhyllcal Sunchue Tours tor more information WANTED perience working with the public and a CALL MARIA 284-5048 for more information tel free 1-800-321-5911 TODAY! When talent for handling many ra.porwibilities. 
236-2201 
Mel-. Marte and

that 1a1t teat is over ...Break for The Beech Bachelor's degree required. Educational Mike: 
with Sunchaae! & business preferred. Compensation in Thank you very much for a job well done. 
mid-teens. Apply by writing: Search SUMMER IN EUROPE (NDISMC Not too lhabby for being kept MARKETING CLUB ELECTIONS Group SHK EC, 131 West 56 Street. 
STUDENTI)-FINAL CALLI LONDON In tha clerk! Thanks.
There will be a mandatory meeting Mon­WANTED NY,NY 10019 PROORAM(IIAY 21-June 20)Traval In 1<8day, April14 at 8pm in the Hayea-Healy Used woman's bicycle at a reasonable TICKETS lraland, Scot,Eng, France. ROMELobby for al thoee interesfed in running price. Gai#&Jrry II239-5604 Internal frame backpack which also con­PAOORAM(Juna15 -July 14)Trav.. Infor a Club Office. Electiona will be held verts to luggage and down-filled sleeping 
France, Oer,Swltz,ltaly.FOR INFO ROCHESTER Thursday. April17from ~in the Hayea­Used Apple lie equipment. Call Mark at bag. Call Dave 3224. 
I NEED 2 GRADUATION TICKETS!!!! IF CALL PROF.A.R. BLACK 284-4460 or OAHealy Lobby. Ouestiona? Call Bil at 3271. 
233-8803 and leave a meuage. Thanks. 
YOU ORDERED EXTRAS, I WILL BUY 272-3726. ALONG 1-80 EAST SUMMER ROOMMATE THEM PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 2n-AlDERS NEEDED 
needed.Brendenw'd Apta.call x1 5451ate. 
1067. I AM DESPARATE!!!!! OFF-CAMPUS STUDE"fl'S Leave Friday, April 1 8 and return on Sun­brn 140C»-5000 thia summer aa you SPRING DANCE THURS. APRIL 17! day Call Pat 1222 or John 1240 ~n "eat bulineea experience. Be the $101COUPLE OR $5/PERSON 
LOST/FOUND I 

NO Sales Director for Campus Connec­TlX MON-THUAS Ill FLOOR PAT MURPHY. 
tion, our proven. nationaly e~~Pt~nding col­LaFORTUNE! We wanted to send a note to our PAT LOST: LAST FRIDAY, APRIL 4TH, AT lege lldvertiaing guide. We provrde FOR SALE PERSONALS MURPHY. THE AMERICANA DURING THE HOLY complete training. materiala, and IUpport. WE LOVE YOU!! ···C.S&D CROSS SYA. 1 BLUE BACK-PACK C.. Arldr-Goorno. Pubither, at ..................... ............. Hurvv? Cal YELLOW SUBMARINE at CONTAINING IMPORTANT ITEMS. IF (415)324-4060 after 7PM weekdaya or OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER a UOUOft. 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am JEANNE, I CAME, I SAW &NOW I WANT FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT MARY AT anytime weekendl. Ideal lor an ambitioua 78 Datsun B210. Moving, mull sell. Good CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; YOU FOA MY OWN. I CAN'T WAIT ANY 284-5176A.S.A.P. underctuamen. condition. 272-9531. BLOCK lOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. LONGER SEE YOU AT 2:15. JOHN 

The Observer Monday, Aprill4, 1986--page 9 
ALWest 
continuedfrom page 12 
the starting horses because his relief corps, with the exception of Dan Quisenberry, often breaks down. But KC seems to have it all-proven starters, the Quiz, the best top of the order in the division (Willie Wilson, Lonnie Smith), and a strong defense up the middle with Gold-Glover Frank White at second. 
Picking the rest of the West is like figuring who George Steinbrenner will pick to replace manager Lou Piniella in June. If KC endures a monumental collapse, look for the Seattle Mariners or the Minnesota Twins to emerge as champions. 
Although Seattle still draws chuckles from many fans who recall their inept past, this club has quietly built up a solid young team with hit­ters like Alvin Davis, Jim Presley, and Phil Bradley. Mike Moore (I 7-10, 
3.46 ERA), Mark Langston, and Matt Young have shown considerable potential as starters. Seattle's colors are black and blue -ap­propriate for a team that has been down longer than Bob Euker, but they may be the ones laughing come October. 
The crafty Bert Blyleven brings his looping mustasche and curveball to join Frank Viola as pitchers for a team with the exciting Kirby Puck­ett, the dependable Tom Brunansky, and the frightening Kent Hrbek. These players could become the most troublesome quintet to hit the Homerdome since Arkansas-Little Rock. 
South of the Border Disorder won't be enough for the oakland A's, as Jose Rijo, Steve Ontiveros, Alfredo Griffin, Jose Canseco, and the mercurial Joaquin Andujar will fall shy of predicted greatness. An­dujar will strike out at more umpires and slow-reacting hitters than Dave Whiffkingman will strike out period. 
The California Angels would win this division if the season ended around the middle of July. Unfor­tunately, most of the Angels players are in the August of their careers, witness Don Sutton, John Can­delaria, Reggie, et al. The Angels probably have the hurlers to take the crown, but 162 games will catch up to them and leave owner Gene Autry singing "Back in the Cellar Again." 
The Chicago White Sox, dadgum, have a new general manager, pards, named Hawk Har­relson, who wears elephant skin boots and trades cool talk with the chic disco crowd. Unfortunately for Sox fans, ofwhich I am an avid mem­ber, Harrelson will also trade Tom Seaver, maybe Carlton Fisk, and probably skipper Tony LaRussa for Dick Williams before the season's halfdone. 
The Texas Rangers are young and rebuilding. Sound familiar? Ranger fans heard the same tune last year but they'll have to listen to the encore in '86. Even USA For Africa couln't help this club. 
Whoever does win the West, though, will lose to the Boston Red Sox or the New York Yankees, depending on who lands Tom Seaver from Chicago. The New York Mets, however, will be just Gooden enough to overtake the Cincinnati Reds and then the AL finalist for the ultimate champagne shampoo. 

HAPPfN~55 lS ,, 
NLWest 
' 

continuedfrom page 12 
But the Los Angeles Dodgers will be heard from before they fall in a close race. Mike Marshall ( 28 HRs, 95 RBis in 1985) and Greg Brock ( 21 HRs, 66 RBis) are power hitters who continue to improve and the pitching staff, led by Fernando Valenzuela ( 17-10, 2.45 ERA), might be the best in baseball. But the Dodgers are no longer the best in the west. The loss ofPedro Guerrero for at least three months to a knee injury, along with the worst defense in baseball, will leave Lasorda empty-handed come October. 
The Atlanta Braves must im­prove their pitching staff if they hope to finish any higher than third. 
SUIDIIBI!OBAI-IIAGI 
lpeoial dilooullt for •DII.G dadtatl (5 x10 spaces and larger) CALL 289·0818 to UIIIYIII.lCI flBLP LOCK SlfOU&B OP •aKIJILI~ 816 But Me Klaley Mishawaka SecuritJ Patrol Checks 

Rick Mahler ( 17-1 5) accounted for one-founh of the team's wins list year and reliever Bruce Sutter saved only 23 games after recording 45 saves for St. Louis in1984. Even Dale Murphy's bat won't save the Braves in 1986. 
Two seasons ago, the San Diego Padres earned a spot in the World Series. Those days are gone. Former Oakland manager Steve Boros takes 
Learn the facts about cancer. 
the helm from Dick Williams and finds himself with an aging infield and an average pitching staff. Tony Gwynn will shine in right field, but you can count the Padres out of post-season play this year. 
The Houston Astros and new manager Hal Lanier have a quick team. But, unfortunately for Asttos fans, you need power to win in the big leagues. The absence of a power 
How you live may save your life. 
Suritmer 

STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 
• 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 

•APPROX 
21/2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALLDAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 

"BEST LITILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" ..... 

___1S__IHEB_E__Uf_E_ BFTE_B_..COMP..tte~ 
din.•cted by 

Mar¥.Arm~r.... ___.__.lo____Giarrante, osf __C_afe O'Haa.ure:..__ when · 
______._A..u.P.AI L 18-20 
where 

-----~---CBOWE'S HOUSE-mi. 
contact 

_________UflL\LERSlL'L _MlillSTL.LR.._._Y__ 
sign-up deadline 
APRIL 14, 1986 
OFKJ a Lf\MRSITY MNSID' 
181 

hitter and a pitching staff that is 
mediocre  at  best  will  keep  the  
Astros in fifth.  
The San Francisco Giants  are  

looking for a miracle. They won't get one. What they will get is another 1 00-loss season. 
In the N.L. East, look for Dwight Gooden and the Mets to outlast a late-season charge from the Chicago Cubs. The Oakland A's will come from behind in the second halfofthe season to take the A.L West title from Kansas City, while Toronto has all the tools to survive the talented 
A.L. East. 
Look for the BlueJays to edge out the Mets and take the 1986 World Series trophy to Canada. 
ALEast 
continuedfrom page 12 
Walt Terrell ( I 5·1 0 ), and an excel­
lent closer in Willie Hernandez ( 3 1 
saves, 2.70 ERA). But if they can't 
catch the ball, the Tigers won't catch 
the Yankees. 
When last we left the Toronto 
Bluejays, they had just finished one 
of the greatest folds since origami in 
blowing a 3-1 lead in the Al cham­
pionship series to the Kansas City 
Royals. They have the talent inJesse 
Barfield (.289, 27, 84), Uoyd 
Moseby (.259, 18, 70), George Bell 
(.275, 28, 95) and Willie Upshaw 
(.275, 15, 65), but no leader. The 
Jays also have solid pitching in Dave 
Steib (14-13, 2.43 ERA) jimmy Key 
( 14-6) and Doyl Alexander ( 17-1 0 ). 
But without anyone take take charge 
of this talent, the Jays will finish 
third. 
The Boston Red Sox could be a 
dark horse in the AL East this season. 
They have the power in Jim Rice 
{.291, 27, 103), Tony Armas (265, 
23, 64) Wade Boggs (.368, 8, 78), 
and recently acquired Don Baylor 
(.231, 23, 91), whose numbers 
should rise in cosy Fenway Park. But, 
as always with the Bosox, pitching is 
a question mark. The Sox will need a 
better year from Dennis 'Oil Can' Boyd ( 1 5·13) and a good recovery from Roger Clemens (7-5 before un­dergoing surgery) if thye are to be taken seriously as contenders. 
Never count Earl Weaver out, but 
you can count on the Baltimore 
Orioles to finish fifth this year. With 
a disrupted pitching staff, Earl will 
need more than Eddie Murray(.297, 
31, 124) and Cal ripken ( .282, 26, 
110) in order to make a run at the pennant this year. 
Good news for the Cleveland In· dians. they won't finish last this year. They have some good talent in Julio Franco and Brett Butler, and should finish ahead of the Milwaukee Brewers. This team got old quickly after the 1982 season. 
In other divisions, I like the Mets, the Royals (by default) and the Reds. Finally, New York wiU have its sub­way series which the Yankees should win in six. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
The Observer Monday, Aprill4, 1986 -page I 0 
Irish lacrosse wins weekend pair 

Doug Spencer. (Sophomore goalie) Tom Fredericks had nine saves for us and played well." 
Atenacious Kenyon team gave the Irish all they could handle on Satur­day, never falling behind by more than three goals until late in the game. 
"It was one of those games," com­mented O'Leary, "that we dominated in almost every area but couldn't put away. They (Kenyon) refused to get down after we scored, and they kept coming at us. I've got to give credit to our defense. (Senior co-captain) Mike Rice and (junior) Wally Stack played great games, as did (goalie) Matt McQuillan, who had fifteen saves." 
The game's offensive star was, predictably, the prolific Joe Franklin. Franklin, second on the all­time Notre Dame scoring list with 105 goals, had five against Kenyon. Grote added two goals and two as­sists, while juniorJim Shields scored twice as well. 
A key to the game, noted O'Leary, 
was the tremendous play of the Irish 
face-off specialists, Tony Rettino and 
Art Brady, who won a total of 18 out 
of 21 face-offs. Brady, a sophomore, 
also scored his first goal of the year 
in the contest. 


SJ8UUOJ ameg a.q.oNfSfti1!K J.UJVS 6UJ1D03dD asoqJ, .IOJ J,Saq .IDOJi JIOOJ DOli a1J81D SJ.SJJlQS .1ClJ.S81U .IDO J.C)') 
aUIVQ a.q,ON JO 4JtS.JaAJU() (Juamutoddy Aq s&utuaa~) 0lfHDJp&g 

liept~DJ•S s-s I'I'IS·6£Z (61Z) ·p:~ -·uow 9-8 
This Tuesday, the Irish travel to Lake Forest in hopes of picking up win number six. O'Leary wants and expects a tough game. 
"Lake Forest played extremely well at the end of last season," said O'Leary. "They had a few upsets and have some good people back. Hope­fully, we'll have (sophomore) John McNicholas and (freshman) Dave Kidder back from injuries on Tues­dayand we can continue toplay well as a team." 
"Ourgame ofthe year will have to be on Saturday, though," O'Leary continued. Next Saturday, Midwest Lacrosse Association foe Denison invades Alumni Field for a 1:30 battle. "It's always tough when we play Denison. They killed us at their place last year, and we'd like to return the favor. They are an ex­tremely well-coached team and every year they've got super talent and depth. We will have to play our very best to beat them." 
As usual, the Notre Dame-Denison game will play a large part in deter­mining the champion of the Mid­west Lacrosse Association, and O'Leary encourages lacrosse fans to support their varsity team on Satur­day. 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team raised its record to 5-2 after defeat­ing Ohio schools Mount Union and Kenyon impressively over the weekend. Irish head coach Rich O'Leary saw his squad dominate an outmanned Mount Union team by a score of 17-6 and then beat Kenyon, 11-7. 
In Friday's Mount Union contest, Notre Dame started strong to build up an 1 1-2 lead at halftime and never looked back. A balanced scoring at­tack, in which eleven of the Irish found the net, was led by senior Joe Franklin's three goals and two assists and senior Tim Corrigan's three tallies. Dave O'Neill, Tony Rettino and John Burtis each scored twice for the Irish, and senior co-captain Tom Grote scored a goal while set­ting up three others. 
O'Leary was happy to be given a chance to empty his bench in the game, and many talented non­starters contributed to the win. 
"We played a lot of people," said 
the sixth-year head coach, "and on 
the whole I felt everyone showed 
very well, especially (freshmen 
defensemen) Brendan Cahill and 
NLEast 
continued/rom page 12 
The Chicago Cubs need to have their 1984 rotation of Cy Young winner Rick Sutcliffe, Dennis Eck­ersley, Scott Sanderson, and Steve Trout that combined for a 47-21 record. Ifthey can mend ailing arms, they will need previously lacking middle relief from the likes of jay Baller (3.46) and George Frazier 
The Cubs will score runs behind the lead of Ryne Sandberg ( .305, 26 homers, 83 RBI, 54 steals) and Leon Durham (.282), despite Ron Cey's decline in production which may lead to Keith Moreland switching to third. 
The Montreal Expos will turn 
their attention to offense, guided by 
left fielder Tim Raines (.320, 70 
steals), shortstop Hubie Brooks 
Andre Dawson (.251, 91 RBI). 
The Expos will test the waters 
with new arms, but will boast a 
strong bullpen headed by N.L. 
Fireman ofthe Year Jeff Reardon ( 41 
saves), and suprise Tim Burke (eight 
saves, 2.39). To call 1986 a 
rebuilding year for the 
Philadelphia Phillies would be an 
understatement. The club has 
changed five of its eight everyday 
positions. Von Hayes has moved to 
first to free Mike Schmidt for third. 
The Phils need Schmidt to avoid an 
early slump that he had last year 
despite winding up with 33 homers 
and 93 RBI. 
With John Denny's departure, the 
staff is made of Kevin Gross ( 15-13), 
lefty Shane Rawley ( 13-8, 3.31 ), and 
Charlie Hudson. Steve Carlton's arm 
is still a question mark, while 
reliever Tom Hume should add ex· 
perience. It could all amount to a 
long year. 
What can be said about last year's 
worst major league team with 104 
losses, the Piusburgb Pirates? This 
year can only be better. Golden 
Glove catcher Tony Pena and 
second baseman Johnny Ray are the 
only veterans as young players battle 
for six positions. 
When October finally rolls in, look for the K. C. Royals to pitch their way past the heavy-hitting N.Y. Yankees, but those Amazing Mcts '\\ill relive the glory of 1969 as they rely on their starting five against the 
L.A. Dodgers on their way to the title. 


Golferjack Nicklaus, shown here chipping a shot in a practice round earlier in the week at the Masters Tournament, camefrom behindyesterday to claim a stunning sixth Masters victory. Nick­laus, 46, stroked a seven-under-par 65 to pull off the triumph. Details can befound onpage8. 
Notre DaDle Avenue 
Apart~nents 
NOWREN1JNGFOilFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking~ On site managemetit & maintenence, aU deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good dealsfor SummerSealon) 
Office at110 ND An 
134'6647/~5716 
Call Aaydaae 
I 

I 
----------------------, 
I I 

Pac &Ship ! 
I 
I

I llrtifillpl. 0 
Cltt....~. I

Packaging & U.P.S. Service
I 
hliAJ 1111]

I Giftwrapping Aces & Greeting Cords 
ow•·· ;
I 

Dllilldslll II *PJ~IIIIPC
C'..opy Service 
Postage Stamps & Rubber Stamp s 
,..St. l

I llililer....MbO
Helium Balloons (any size) 
I 
0 ......1111 I

I Western Union telegrams 
I
o......,.•

I Money orders 
I
lt...,..
I 
I

Little Dutch Dry Cleaning service 
Ctlltt
I 
lllliHnilJ 
I

Boxes (all shapes and sizes)
I 
I
..." 
... 
I

I 109 Dixieway N. I South Bend 277-7748 
C~J

I (Look tor Clyde the Gorrilla) 51\A •---·BRING IN THIS AD FOR UY OFF ___j 
•spnpo.ad.IJ•q J!VJa.l JO auu DDJ. aA&q OSJV aM 

Sl.SI,VI~3dS !>NIJ..Ln~ ~IVH ~3.1N3::> X3SINn 3~1A~3S ,,n:J 

I I I 

• 
l 
i 
·I 
/ 




Monday, April 14, 1986 -page 11 
Bloom County 



ACROSS 1 Svelte 5 Take-at l.1 
(try) 10 Kind of doll 14 Middle East 
bread 15 Allen or 
Martin 16 Holly 17 Roman date 18 Detection 
device 19 Locale 20 Aurora 
borealis 23 Loathe 24 Lillie or 
Arthur 25 Dilutes 28 Church towers 33 Archetype 34 Wing-like 35 Distinctive 
time period 36 Make clearer 40 Poker stakes 41 Protuberance 42 Grow 43 Cabal members 46 Eliot's Silas 47 Certain 
doctors: abbr. 48 Particle 49 Trip the­
(dance) 56 Criticizes 57 Bird of prey 58 Fair 59 Puerto­60 Skirt feature 61 St. -'s fire 62 Algerian port 63 Great numbers 64 Secretary 
DOWN 1 Short drive 2 Venetian 
resort 3 Roman road 4 Newspaper 
part 5 Possessions 6 Cache 7 Oak Ridge's 
state: abbr. 
Wf.llC.!-l M£ANS ltv~ GET ro WALl::: ALL CNER THE CAMRJ5 ;N stARCJ-1 or 
HIE" FtR.FE<:.T Ntsr1N6 


4/14/86
All Rights Reserved 
8 Of grand­parents 9 Dietary 
disease 10 Accident 11 Came to rest 12 National 
League entry 13 Paul Bunyan 
implement 21 Flax fibers 22-whiz! 25 Stray hair 
locks 26 Kind of 

committee 27 Bite in law 28 Pungs 29 Poe specialty 30 Admit 44 Urges along 31 Appearing 45 Traffic sign 
gnawed abbreviation 32 More rational 46 Vocal 34 God of love compositions 37 Ragtime dances 48 Relative 38 Persona non -49 Animal refuge 39 Tormented 50 Peruvian 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
... 70 !M£Lm M/lf(C()S 
S/13 CAN !'fiT~ 
AV HMIJ/1. 

WfTH HeR BOO C.O.IJ.. 
lfi../ICK 81?1/S. 


q 

Kevin Walsh 


"In the wild, of course, they'd be natural enemies. They do just fine together if you get 'em as pups." 

© 1986 Uni.-ersal Press Syndicate 
,. 

Campus . 
•4 
P.M.-lecture, "Fighting for Human Rights: A View From the Washington Trenches" Joseph Eldridge, Washington Office on Latin America, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by The Helen Kellogg Institute, free 

•6: 
IS P.M. · meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by RASTA 


< 
· 

•7 
P.M. -film, "Who's Running This War?", Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Graduate Latin American Student Association, free 

•7, 
9, II P.M. · film, "The Harder They Come", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by RASTA, SI.50 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Salisbury Steak Sicilian Veal with Mushroom Gravy 
Vegetable Quiche Monterey Muffin Melt 
TV Tonight 

6P.M. 
6:30P.M. 
7P.M. 
7:30P.M. 
8P.M. 
51 Hairpiece 52 US critic­author 
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  22 Eyewitness News  
28  WSJV Newswatch 28  
}4  MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour  
46  Jim & Tammy  
16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC's  World  News  Tonight  
with PeterJennings  
16  MyAySyH  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  *  
}4  .Nightly Business Report  
46  700dub  
16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fortune  
34  Market to Market  
16  You Again?  
22  Scarecrow & Mrs. King  
28  Hardcastle & McCormick  *  
34  Pride  of  Place:  Building  the  
American Dream  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  

8:30P.M. 9P.M. 
10 P.M. 
10:30 P.M. 11 P.M. 
11:30 P.M. 

16  Valerie  
46  Calvary Temple  
21st  
16  21st  Annual  Academy  of  
Country Music Awards  
22  CBS Special: Dream West  

28 ABC Monday Night Movie: "A Winner Never Quits" 34 American Playhouse: "The House ofRamori Iglesia" 
46 Lesea Alive 
}4 Last Waltz on a Tightrope 
46 Church Growth International 
46 light & lively 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness Ne"'"S 
28 WSJV Newswatch 28 
34 Body Electric 
46 Praise the Lord 
16 Tonight Show 
22 CBS Late Movie: Remington Steele 28 ABC News Nightline }4 Star Trek 
53 Painted metalware 54 Doctrines 

55 Chef Thanks toyou... 
forALLOFUS
56 Golf teacher 
itworks... 


J 

LITTLE MO EY? 
Student Activities Board Movies Commission and Publicity Commission are looking for workers for 1986-87. 
If interested, contact the SAB office at 239-7757. 
It pays! 



