.r------~-------------------------------------------­
Talking Heads -page 10 


Th~ O~rvtr!DQm~n Chin 

Dorm for women to be constructed with $5-million gift 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
Baltimore businessman Henry Knott has donated $5 million to construct one of two new wo­men's dorms at Notre Dame. 
The residence hall, housing approximately 250 undergradu­ates, will be one of two built be­tween the Memorial Library and Pasquerllla East and West, Uni­versity officials said. 
The  dorm  will  be  named  
Marion  Burk  Knott  Hall,  after  
Knott's  wife,  according  to  MI­ 

chael Garvey, assistant director of public relations and Informa­tion. 
Knott, chairman of the board of the Arundel Corporation In Baltimore, Is well known for his philanthropy In that city, said Garvey. 
"catholic education Is gener­ally what he Is giving to," Garvey said. 
Director of the Physical Plant Donald Dedrick said Knott's gift will pay for one of two dorms, begin Feb. 1, 1987, and be com­pleted by June, 1988, he said. Both will be ready for occupancy 
by September, 1988.  
Workers  began  clearing  the  
construction  sight  earlier  this  
week. said Dedrick.  

Knott, whose daughter received a master's degree from Notre Dame In 1968, said "com­petent, committed and compas­sionate women are indispen­sable to all levels of a healthy society. 
"To enhance their access to a Notre Dame education enriches the society which they will later serve, and I count my ability to do so a great privilege." 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh praised Knott for his generosity, saying "this most recent benefaction will greatly sustain Notre Dame's residential character and ac­celerate the University's efforts to bring the numbers of men and women students Into proper bal­ance." 
Notre Dame currently has 

Mmm, mmm, "Goode" both of which will be "essentially 5,.367 undergraduate men and identical to the Pasquerlllas." Freshman Karen Carbone auditions for C.P. Taylor's "Good" Tuesday night in Washington Hall. Construction of the halls will 
see DORM, page6 

Buchwald pokes fun at Afghan Communist Party leader Washington figures oversees exiting of tank regiment 
Associated Press July, during a speech In plying political support and
By TRIPP BALTZ said. 
Vladivostok. Moscow has con­weapons to the Moslem guer­
News Editor Reagan got the idea for supply­SHINDAND, Afghanistan tended that Afghan govern­rillas.
side economics from watching 

ELKHART, Ind. ·Art Buchwald, "Tip O'Neill eat a bowl of soup," Communist Party chief Najibul­ment forces are much stronger Publicity about the nationally-syndicated columnist, according to Buchwald. Buch­lah threw flower petals at about now than when It sent the first withdrawal began Immediately declared himself one of wald said he has a terrible fear 1,500 members ofa Soviet tank troops to Kabul In December after Gorbachev's announce­America's greatest employers at that If the "Soviets ever launch regiment who clanked away In 1979. ment and culminated this week 
the Elco Theatre Wednesday ail attack. the president will get a dusty column Wednesday on Western diplomats In Af· In a carefully supervised visit to their long and well-publicized ghanlstan say the withdrawal Is Afghanistan for about 100
night. "Most everybody In Wash­his little black box. push the but­Ington works for me," he an­ton 'til he's released 8, 000 MX trip home. Insignificant, a gesture timed to foreign journalists, most of nounced. missiles, and the only thing that The departure from a ward offcriticism duringannual them from the Soviet Union and 
Dishing out the humorous will happen, Is the White House parched basin In this region U.N. debate on the Afghan war Its East European allies. commentary that earned him the garage door will go up." near the Iranian frontier began later this year. The seven-day tour was ar­1982 Pulitzer prize, Buchwald Buchwald said the American the withdrawal of about 8,000 Soviet officials call It a sym­ranged In Moscow by the Soviet poked fun at Washington figures public Is down on the media. of the estimated 1 15, 000 So­bol of Kremlin willingness to Foreign Ministry and Afghan of­
viet soldiers who help the com­achieve a political settlement In ficials.
and Issues in a lecture titled "On "Everybody wonders where we Morality and Ethics." get our government secrets munist government fight Mos­Afghanistan. They say a com­Visiting reporters are allowed 
He praised the organizers for from. We get them from the gov­lem guerrillas. plete pullout Is not possible un­almost no Independent move-Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­til the United States, Pakistan
getting the best possible speaker ernment. on the subject. "In Washington, "If a Washington reporter says hev promised the pullout In and other countries stop sup-see AFGHAN, page 3 I know morality when I see It and he's stepping out ofthe office for ethics when I don't," he said. a leak. It means he's going to 
Buchwald, a graduate of the pick up a top secret document," University of Southern califor­said Buchwald. 

Attackers strike near Wailing Wall 
nia, drew upon the humor Buchwald said every Institu­columns he has been writing for tion Is under pressure. He recalls Associated Press It was the most serious attack the evening air and a nearby almost 40 years. To be a having heard about a University In the city In 20 years and came sidewalk was stained with blood. humorist, he said, "you have to president who told his football JERUSALEM • Attackers hurled during the three weeks ofJewish Shreds of clothing were strewn have an unhappy childhood." He coach he was going to give one hand grenades Wednesday near observances known as the High about. told the audience to encourage of his athletes a quiz, because Judaism's holiest site, the Holidays. Mayor · Teddy Kollek The Injured, some with their their children to write columns if he was under pressure to Im­Walling Wall, killing at least one called It a "large scale disaster." clothes ripped off by the explos­they have a good sense of prove the academic quality of person and wounding 69 sol-Ions, were lifted onto stretchers humor. "There's a lot of money sports at his school. "He went to diers, civilians and tourists. · A medic who was on the scene and carried by soldiers and In It," he added. the boy and said 'What's two plus said on army radio: "I heard ... passers-by to ambulances. 
Buchwald said he has ellloyed two?' and the kid answered four. The grenades were thrown at two, three explosions .... I heard Israel Radio reported at least writing about several humorous "Then the coach said, 'Aw, give a group of .300 new recruits of shouts and windows exploding. two attackers threw as many as presidential administrative fig­'em another chance'." an elite infantry force of the Is­There were shrapnel Injuries, three Soviet-made hartd ures. Ronald Reagan himself did Buchwald was touring Notre raeli army who had just com­there were smashed limbs, bro­grenades at the crowd. not escape the slings and arrows Dame on his own earlier this pleted a swearing-in ceremony at ken hands and legs of those who Defen.se Minister Yltzhak Rabin of Buchwald's outrageous week. He said he talked to an the last remnant of the biblical stood close." told reporters at the scene, "This humor. "I worship the very quick­Jewish temple that was largely The wall of emergency sirens 
see BUCHWALD, page 6 see WAILING, page 3 
sand he walks on," Buchwald destroyed In 70 A.D. and screams of the wounded cut 
---,-~~-----·-~ 
-----------~-~----­

The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 2 

In Brief ,·. 
Women on campus have been approached by a 25-year old white male asking them to punch him In the stomach. No one has been Injured In the Incidents, which occurred on the South Quad and at Dorr and Juniper Roads. Notre Dame Security described the man as 5-feet, 8-lnches tall, weighing approximately 160 pounds, and having dark hair and a mus­tache. The man was wearing a dark blue sweatsult with white stripes down the side. Security officers ask anyone with In­formation on this man to call their office at 2.39-5555. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Security Is seeking Information on a black labrador that bit a man at 4:40p.m. Tuesday near St. Joseph Hall between Saint Mary's and Douglas roads. Security would like to check the dog for rabies. Security asks that anyone with Information call 2.39-5555. -The Observer 
"Louie, Louie" was not banned by University President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh as many had thought, Notre Dame's president said Wednesday. Hesburgh said he has never heard of the song nor has he received any complaints about it. According to Assistant Band Director Nick Morrison, a misun­derstanding caused band members to think James Phillips, acting band director, blamed Hesburgh for banning the song. 
The Observer 


Of Interest 
The Kellogg Institute will sponsor a colloquium today from .3 to 6 p.m. In 258 Fitzpatrick Hall. Speaking on "State and Finance In Latin American Capital Accumulation" will be Silvia Maxfield, a Kellogg fellow; Leslie ArmUo. from University of California, Berkeley's political science department; Marta Bekerman, an advisor to the Argentine Ministry ofEconomics; and AIE1Jandra Mlzala, from Unlversldad de Chile, Santiago's economics department. -The Observer 
The World Hunger Coalition will commemorate United Na­tions World Food Day today by attending the 5:15 p.m. Sacred Heart Church Mass, featuring a liturgy of prayer for the hungry. Also, the Dining Halls will offer a simple meal of rice, bread, and soup, while a fllm on current hunger Issues will be shown tonight at 7:.30 at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The Observer 

Dlsmas House, an off-campus house where Notre Dame students live with ex-offenders, will be featured on this week's Campus Perspectives talkshow tonight from 10 to 11 on WVFI­AM 640. Host Lynne Strand will Interview Notre Dame senior Jamie Cantorna and junior Kristen Williams and ex-offenders John Nueller and Tony Harris on the first two months of Dlsmas House living. Questions and comments may be called In at 2.39-6400. -The Observer 
The Saint Mary's Faculty Chamber Music Recital scheduled for tonight has been postponed. The recital will be res­cheduled In the spring. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general Interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 

As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's prepare for October break, Mother Nature Is giving the skies a break from rain. The top "break­Ing" story: partly sunny skies today and Friday with highs In the mid 50s. It will be partly cloudy tonight with lows In the mid to upper .30s. 


~--Ihe ObserYer-=--~~ 
Design Editor . .... Rob "Lux" Luxem Accent Copy EditorCaroline Gillespie Design Assistant ........ Bob White Accent Layout .... Katy Kronenberg Typesetter ........... Sean Sexton Typist ............... Colleen Foy News Editor ....... Ann Kaltenbach NO Day Editor ......... Bill Herzog Copy Editor .......... Regis Coccia Ad Design . ........ Mark Weimholt Sports Copy Editor . ..... Pete Gegen Photographers ......... Jim Carroll Viewpoint Layout . ... Sharon Emmit ................... Damian Chin 
The Obsenu (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obsener is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved . 
• 



Contrary to popular belief Hesburgh not to blame 
The press can be a very powerful tool. 
In 1898 newspaper moguls William Randolph Hearst and Joseph Pulitzer played a large part In persuading the nation to go to war against Spain. 
Although certainly not as important, In 1986 a commentary from a student appeared In The Ob­server and persuaded many students the Univer­sity's president was at fault for the "banishment" of "Louie, Louie" from the band's program. 
How did this happen? 
The story began, according to Assistant Director of Bands Nick Morrison, when a woman wrote a letter to the University president's office, com­plaining she found the song "Louie, Louie" offen­sive. 
The woman's letter flltered down from the Uni­versity president's office to the acting director of the band, James Phillips. 
In consultation with Morrison and Assistant Director of Bands Father George Wlsklrchen, Phil­lips decided the band should stop playing the song while they Investigated the situation, accor­ding to Morrison. ­
"The original decision was from the fact that someone found it offensive," he said. The final decision is pending· further Investigation, he added. 
"It was a decision made In (the band's) office," said Morrison. 
Many students, however, think the decision to stop playing the song was made by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh . 
A Viewpoint column In the Oct. 8 edition of The Observer stated word was sent from Hesburgh to Phillips that the band could no longer play the "Immoral tune." 
The fact of the matter Is, however, that Hes­burgh never gave such an order to Phillips. Hes­burgh said Wednesday he has never even heard the song nor has he had any contact with Phillips concerning the song. "I wouldn't know It IfI heard It," he said. 
In addition, Hesburgh said he has not received any complaints about the song. 
Some band members, however, claim Phillips told them the decision to ban the song was Hes­burgh's. Thus, a Viewpoint column blaming Hes­burgh was born. This led to a letter to the editor In Wednesday's edition of The Observer again blaming Hesburgh. 
Morrison claims that a misunderstanding led to some members Interpreting Phillips as blaming Hesburgh. "It was a misunderstanding of what (Phillips) told the band," he said. 
Repeated attempts to reach Phillips were unsuc­cessful. 
Whether there was a misunderstanding or not, the fact remains that for the last week I have listened to my friends berate Hesburgh for what they believed was his decision to ban the song. 
A column and letter to the editor, even though written without full benefit of the facts, were able 
to convince many students of Hesburgh's "guilt." 
After the Viewpoint column, many students were very eager tojump on Hesburgh's back and blame him for banishing the popular song. 
Although this Is not the most Important Issue 
LEAVING NOTRE DAME 
effective 10/26/86 
LEAVE  
NOTRE DAME BUS  ARRIVE O'HARE  ARRIVE MIDWAY AIRPORT  
SHELTER  

4:20a.m. 6:00a.m. 6:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 7:45a.m. 
* 
8:20a.m. 10:00a.m. 9:45a.m. 10:20a.m. 12:00p.m. 11:45a.m. 12:20p.m. 2:00p.m. 1:45p.m. 2:20p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:45p.m. 4:20p.m. 6:00p.m. 5:45p.m. 6:20p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:45p.m. 
8:20p.m. 10:00p.m. 
* 
All ARRIVAlS AND DEPARTURES ON lOCAl TIME. CAll FDR COMPlETE liST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 

FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-699) OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
Chris Bednarski 
Assistant News Editor 

to affect student life, two questions still remain. 
First, was the band misinformed as to who was responsible for banning the song, as some band members and the column writer think? I don't know. 
Second, should the band directors discontinue playing "Louie, Louie" just because a complaint was received about It's morality? 
I don't think so. 
Morrison said It Is possible the song will be played In the future. Itwill depend on what Phillips, Morrison and Wlsklrchen decide about the offen­siveness of the song and whether or not the song can be fit Into the band's future routines. 
I hope they have all the facts. I also hope people will reservejudgement on their decision until they too get all the facts. 

A dirty campground is no picnic .•. Clean up before you leave. 
RETURNING TO NOTRE DAME 

LEAVE  ARRIVE  
MIDWAY  ARRIVE  NOTRE  
AT  LEAVE  MICHIANA  DAME  
MIDWAY  O'HARE  AIRPORT  BUS  
AIRLINES  SOUTH BEND  SHELTER  

*  8:15a.m.  11:35a.m.  11:50a.m.  
9:50a.m.  10:15a.m.  1:35p.m.  1:50p.m.  
11:50a.m.  12:15p.m.  3:35p.m.  3:50p.m.  
1:50p.m.  2:15p.m.  5:35p.m.  5:50p.m.  
3:50p.m.  4:15p.m.  7:35p.m.  7:50p.m.  
5:50p.m.  6:15p.m.  9:35p.m.  9:50p.m.  
7:50p.m.  8:15p.m.  11:35p.m.  11:50p.m.  
10:30p.m.  10:15p.m.  1:35a.m.  1:50a.m.  
*  12:15a.m.  3:35a.m.  3:50a.m.  

__ ,-· 
" 
__....­

The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page .3 

Gene discovered for muscular dystrophy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK · Researchers have found the long-sought gene re­sponsible for the most common form of muscular dystrophy, a "historic discovery" that could lead to the first direct treatment of this now-incurable disease. 
The Muscular Dystrophy Asso­ciation, which provided much of the financial support for the re­search, cautioned that the dis­covery would not immediately help children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, an illness that afflicts 20,000 to 50,000 American boys who will not sur­vive beyond their 20s. 
"We're extremely encouraged and excited by this historic dis­covery," said Donald Wood, the association's associate director of research. "It's a very big step forward in our efforts to conquer this disease, but we still have a long way to go to develop treat­ments." 
The discovery of the gene by Louis Kunkel, Anthony Monaco and colleagues at Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School in Boston caps several years of unusual cooperation by scientists around the world. 
In a report to be published Thursday In Nature magazine, Kunkel and Monaco describe the Isolation of a segment of genetic material that makes up about 10 percent of the Duchenne mus­cular dystrophy gene. This piece of the gene can now be used to Isolate the entire gene. 
The researchers also re'lfllil that the gene appears to ~ as the blueprint for manufacture of a protein In muscle tissue. Duchenne muscular dystrophy Is an Inherited disease marked by gradual death of muscle tissue. It occurs when the protein Is mis­sing or altered. 
Scientists had presumed that the defective protein responsible for the disease was located in muscle tissue, but so little had been known about the ailment that scientists had been unable to prove that -until now. 
Kunkel and his collaborators found that the gene had produced In muscle tissue a sub­stance called messenger RNA, an Intermediate step In the produc­tion of a protein by the gene. 


Juniors Kevin Holsti, Chris Isaak. Gilbert Mar­TV. The Morrissey Hall quartet is watching the xuach and Mike Sharkey relax In front of their coverage of the Mets-Astros game. 
Kunkel said in a telephone in­terview Wednesday that the next critical step in the research will be to Identify the protein en­coded by the gene, a straightfor­ward task that could be accom­plished within a year. 
When the physiology Is under­stood, researchers might be able to devise ways to alter It · thus ameliorating or even curing the disease. 

Wailing 
continuedfrom page 1 
is proof that the Palestinian ter­ror seeks to hurt us In every place, In every way and at every hour." 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres 
expressed "deep shock" over the 
attack. the national rtlm news 
agency reported. It quoted Peres 
as saying Israel's security forces 
would do all they could to cap­
ture those responsible. 
The grenades were hurled near 
a large parking lot at the Dung 
Gate, one of eight entrances to 
the walled Old City, as the sol­
diers and their relatives headed 
for cars and buses after the 
swearing-ln. The gate is used 
dally by thousands of tourists 
and Jewish worshipers. 

Afghan 
continued/rom page 1 
ment but the visit has provided a rare glimpse of life since the 1978 communist revolution plunged government forces and Moslem rebels Into a war that many observers feel nei­ther side can win. Afghanistan normally Is closed to Western journalists. 
Najlbullah was dressed In green fatigues for the heroes' sendoff given the tank soldiers. He declared the occasion "a his­toric day for Afghanistan." 
The 38-year-old leader told the departing troops the years after the coup in April 1978 were "a difficult and black per· iod of our revolution," but gov­ernment forces had grown stronger with the Soviets' help. 


FAMILY HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------. 
:s2QFF ADULT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
l--------------~~~~-1 
:S20FF ADULT CUT 1 

I MasterCuts I
I Reg. $8 family haircutters I 
t--~--------------~-1 

:S2QEf._KID~SUJuts : 
I Reg. $6, Now $4 ~ haorcuttEI'i I ~-----------------~~ 


MasterCuts 
family haircutters 

University Park Mall 277-3770 
A Premium Beer with Natural Lemon Flavor A refreshing alternative! No bitter aftertaste!  
Lemon Lager Is now available at these fine establishments . .. Bridget McGuires Prairie Liquors Cut Rate Liquors Lil' Caesar's Kevin's Mitchell's Indiana Club Commons Hank's Supermarket Frank's Place Eagles Super Saver Thornburg Drug Barg-N-Bag Kings' Cellar Miami Plaza Liquor Store Harris Liquor Store Last Stop Liquors Casun's Council Oak Liquors Cira's Supermarket Ranita Grill Osco Drugs Bullseye Liquors McKinnley Terrace Market Portage Liquors Morin's Cafe Pink Elephant Liquor Store Lee's Liquors T & C Liquors Uncle's Irish Pub 12th St. Liquors BackstageI Pizza King 331 Inn Party Package Papa Joe's The Package Store Max's Liquors Rodlno-Parkmor Liquors Mr. Al's Liquors Walgreen's Heinnie's Ski's Place Superette Food Market City Wide Liquors Sterling Ave Liquors Corktowne Liquors Pak'n Shop Stores Giannetto's The Liquor Station The Pop Stop Office Lounge Hickory Hiram's Pine's Liquors Riverpark Liquors Pizza Tyme OC Liquors Dale's Place Chevron Cafe Eagle Inn Green Star Cafe Ironwood Liquors McKinnley Pub East Race Liquors Chuck's Tavern Stubby's Y-Knot Shack Gene and Mary's Alibi Inn  

'<t 
~ ~ 
10 
CX) 
~ 
...... 
r.O
-
... 
~ 
B 
u 
0 
;>, 
Rl 
~ 
:s 
~ 
... 
u 
i: 
~ 
.D 
] ...... 
2QYS. 
R.C.COLA 
PRII 
With Any (2 Items or More) Pizza Original 
101 MAMMA'S llll••a 

ALL COUPONS ARE TO BE PRESENTED WHEN RDERING OR COUPON WILL BE INVALID. ONE COUPON PER ORDER.
---------~-------------~,--------~--------------------------­
16" ORIGINAL 1 13" ORIGINAL 
ONE PIZZA ONE PIZZA 
I 
Double Topplngs-2 Items or More 1 Double Topplngs-2 Items or More 
$1oo . I 50c
OPP Plus I Qt. R.C. Cola I OPP llllus I Qt. R.C. Cola IOIMAMMA'SPIZZA ! IOIMAMMA'SPIDA 
With Any 16" Deluxe or Supreme With Any 16" Deluxe or Supreme Original Standard-2 For 1 
.101 MAMMA'S ltiZZA 101 MAMMA'S ltiZ¥ 256·1611 or 212·0677 
L ..0. -L A A. ~ ~ L. 0. -.__ -~ ----~ --~~ --~ ~ 

-~----~-----~ ------~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 5 



Nobel Prize discovery to benefit man facing eye loss in New Albany 
Associated Press 
NEW ALBANY, Ind. -A Van· derbilt University researcher may have won a Nobel Prize in medicine this week for devel· oping a cell stimulant, but Howard Webb of New Albany says he's the real winner. 
Without the cell stimulant developed by Dr. Stanley Cohen and an Italian scientist, Webb would have lost his right eye, his doctor says. 
Eye drops containing the protein that Cohen discovered 24 years ago have healed an acid burn the size ofa shirt but· ton on the surface of Webb's right eye. The eye would have been destroyed without the ex­perimental treatment. 
Cohen and Rita Levi-

Montalcini of Italy were 
awarded the Nobel Prize in 
medical research Monday for 
identifying and studying small proteins that stimulate cell growth. 
Their discoveries may lead to other medical advances, such as speeding up the healing of severe burns and surgical inci­sions. 
"I think he deserves it," Webb said of Cohen's prize. "I mean, this stuff worked amazing. Nothing else has worked quite that dramatic." 
Webb burned his cornea a year ago when acid from a ma­chine for cleaning automobile parts sprayed his face. 
A cornea transplant failed be­cause a covering, called the epithelium, did not completely grow over the surface of the new cornea. 
The transplanted cornea clouded, leaving Webb legally blind in his right eye and in dan­ger oflosing the eye altogether, according to Dr. Richard Eifer­man, associate professor of ophthalmology at the Univer­sity of Louisvtlle (Ky.) School of Medicine. 

Two weeks ago, doctors at the university in Louisville and at the University of Oklahoma began using epidermal growth factor, or EOF, the substance Cohen discovered in mice in 1962, to treat sores on the outer layer of the cornea. The two schools have been author­ized by the U.S. food and Drug Administration to give EOF to a total of 40 patients with corneal defects. 
Webb, who was the first pa­tient to use the drug in Louis­ville, put EOF drops in his eyes four times a day for six days and the covering closed over his cornea. 
Eiferman said Webb can now undergo a second transplant with a better chance of success. 

A.PPhoto

Noble Nobel winner 
Italian Biologist Rita Levi Montalcini ()eft), a biologist at the lnstitue of Cell Biology C.N.R. in Rome, was announced the winner of the Nobel Prize for Medicine. Story at left. 


House and Senate labor to finish work before adjournment 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · Less than three weeks before Election Day, the House and Senate rushed Wed­nesday to aqjourn the 99th Congress as legislators began whittling a stack ofmajor domes­tic measures to finance the gov­ernment, overhaul immigration laws and combat illegal drug traf­ficking. 
Both chambers were In the midst of what promised to be a series of marathon sessions as congressional leaders searched for compromises on sticky is­sues and pushed to wrap up legislative business by Thursday or Friday, two weeks after the original adjournment target of Oct. .3. 
The biggest and most pressing Item on the agenda was a nearly $576 billion, omnibus spending bill -the largest ever considered by Congress -to meet the fun­ding needs of most government operations and programs for the fiscal year which began Oct. 1. 

Since the beginning of the fis­cal year, the government has limped along on a series ofstop­gap spending measures, the most recent of which was expir­ing at midnight Wednesday. 
Congressional negotiators settled on the final version of the massive spending bill Wednes­day morning. and action by the full House was expected late Wednesday. 
However, the Senate was not taking up the measure before Thursday, leaving the govern­ment technically broke unless another stopgap bill was put Into place. 
The way for consideration of the spending package was cleared Tuesday night after bar­gainers settled on a $291.8 bil­lion worth of military spending. Including agreements with the Reagan administration on arms control issues. 
~~~~~~ww~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I Cut -Rate -Liquors 
I~ Formerly Lock's Liquor World ~ 2128 South Bend Ave.-277-3611 ~ Across from Yellow Submarine 
~ 
~a d =-Clti:J~ 
~ u 


1$7.69 a case 
~  
~ ~I  =  NEW'. Now carrying kegs  
~ ~'~ 007 
~  
¥  

u~ 

~!:-== 

$7.99 a case 
Old Style $ 19
7. a case 
~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
I ~ 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~
~;, 
,_
"'­


00 

r-¥/J 
~


Canadian ~ 

.,_~:

Mist i~ $11.99 
Store Hours: 







I 
~~ !~~tt.;.~~:.~::~
I 
~----CARRY OUT--~
9am-10pm Mon-Thurs. 
Open for lunch


9am-11:00pm Fri. & Sat. 
M. F llam-llpm 

~ 
The House voted approval Wednesday of the compromise defense budget bill. 
The Democratic-controlled chamber passed the bill on a 28.3-128 vote, meaning only ap­proval by the Republican-run Senate Is needed before the measure goes to Reagan's desk. A senate vote is expected later this week. 
Although the conferees had finished their work, battles on foreign aid and several other provisions of the money bill were expected In each chamber. 
Also awaiting final congres­sional action was-legislation to revise the nation's immigration laws and provide amnesty for illegal aliens who entered the country before 1982. 
The House approved the com­promise measure, which also in­cludes penalties for employers who hire Illegal aliens in the fu­ture, on a bipartisan 2.38-17.3 vote. But the legislation, ver­sions of which have died in each of the previous two congresses, still could become tied up by op­ponents in the Senate. 
The Senate, meanwhile was set to consider a compromise $1.7 billion anti-drug measure to shore up federal law enforce­ment, rehabilitation and educa­tion efforts as well as provide aid to local police. 
The legislation, which has moved swiftly through Congress, is a popular election-year issue. 


Correction 
A student was Incorrectly quoted in Wednesday's story about the Munchy Company. Rob Very, one of the or­ganizers of the new student food-services on campus, 
delivered between 6:.30 and L-sa-i_d__t_h_e--p-rod_u_c_ts_-__a-re__,
7:.30 p.m. the day after orders 
are placed. 
I 


Prices effective Oct. 16 thru Oct. 18 
~-Warm or Cold Beer Available 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Hours: SAT 4:30pm-llpm SUN 4:30pm-9:30pm 1705 S. Bend Ave. _
277 5666
South Bend, IN 46635 


r--­
r 
f 
• The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 6 

Royal welcome 
A Chinese youngster greets a smiling Queen Elizabeth the first time a British monarch has visited that coun­with flowers as the queen arrives in Shanghai, in the try. People's Republic of China. The queen's arrival marks 



Reagan: U.S. still open for talks despite stalemate with Gorbachev 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, declaring "let's not look back and place blame," said Wednesday the two superpowers were closer than ever to ridding the world of nuclear weapons. 
In a Baltimore speech, Reagan welcomed a promise by Soviet leader Mikhail Qorbachev not to abandon negotiations despite the stalemate In Iceland over "Star Wars" and repeated his pro­posal for the elimination of all ballistic missiles over a 10-year period. 
"Let's look forward and seek agreements," the president said. "Let's not look back and place blame. I repeat my offer to Mr. Gorbachev: our proposals are serious, they remain on the table and we continue to be prepared for a summit." 
But Igor Bulay, press coun­selor at the Soviet Embassy, said his government wanted to be cer­tain of "concrete results" before setting a date for Gorbachev to come here for a third summit with Reagan. 
A soviet editor, appearing with Bulay at a news conference, said "last-minute intransigence" by Reagan over the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative (SOl) deprived the world of an agreement to reduce strategic nuclear weap­ons by 50 percent. 
"The results of Reykjavik un­dermined the hopes and aspira­tions of people around the world," said Giorgi Fediyashin, editor of Soviet Life, an English­language magazine circulated In the United States. 
Similarly, Spurgeon Keeny, ex­ecutive director of the Arms Con­trol Association, said "we have lost an immediate opportunity for a major breakthrough in arms control." 
He said he hoped Reagan would reconsider the "surprising compromises" Gorbachev had offered to reduce both strategic and medium-range nuclear weapons. 
PAC&SHIP Balloon Bouquets from $5 and up ' delivery available



r cy
Emery, Pony & 
UPS Shipping 
Dry Cleaners 
Stamps & Photo Process. ~ 277-7748 • 
109 Dixie Way North 
"Reykjavik has brought home as "expected and unexceptional" to everyone that the major ob­Gorbachev's criticism of stacle to arms control is the pres­Reagan's stand on the Strategic ident's vision of a strategic Defense Initiative at the summit. defense," Keeny said. 
Former U.S. negotiator Gerard Reagan and Gorbachev Smith, appearing with Keeny at blamed each other Tuesday for a news conference, said "we can the summit stalemate over "Star either have arms control or we Wars" but offered reassurances 
campaign to portray the Iceland tlon was pleased that "General summit as a succees. "We are Secretary Gorbachev stated that closer than ever before to agree-the work that was done in Reyk­ments that could lead to a safer javlk will not go to waste, and 
world without nuclear weapons." the way has now been cleared White House spokesman Larry for further movement toward sig-Speakes, meanwhile, dismissed nlflcantarms reduction. 

fl 1CO 1
Wygant Ofa • nC. 
..C(JQowettg ~~ aQQ occogiong_~~ 
Comein and Browse 
327 Lincolnway · 
23i-3354 
Saint Mary's Coli~~ 
AN0£LA ATHL£TIC PACILITY • NO'BE DAME 
ANTIQUE SHOW AND SALE South Bend, Indiana OCTOBER 17, 18 & 19 
Friday 6-9:30 Saturday 11·9:30 Sunday 11-5:00 FREE PARKING $2.50 ADMISSION Present this card for 50~ Discount Satur~y -Senior Citizens Day -$1.00 80 ~UALITY EXHIBITS Don t miss this fine event 


On the Viewpoint pages your opinions "add up" 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join 11-----1 the growing number of people who feel their 
thoughts and opinions do make a difference. 
Write us at: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Dorm 
continued/rom page 1 
2, 177 undergraduate women, 
according to Pamela Johnson of 
the Registrar's office. 
Born Nov. 2, 1906, in Bal­
timore, Knott was educated in 
Catholic parochial schools. He 
studied at Loyola College for a 
year and a half before leaving to 
become a bricklayer. 
By the early 1930s, Knott had 
become a successful brick con­
tractor, employing 500 brick­
layers. His business later ex­
panded to Include house 
building and real estate develop­
ment. Today his corporation 
employs more than 1, 000 

Buchwald 
continuedfrom page I 
English major, and came to the 
conclusion "today's kids believe 
they're gonna make it." 
The two engaged in a con­
versation about Hamlet, Buch­
wald said. Buchwald asked the 
English major what he would do 
if he had to go through what 
Hamlet experiences In the play. 
"I guess I'd go for my master's 
degree," the student responded. 
Buchwald said he is Impressed 
by the civic pride of the people 
in Elkhart. The first time he came 
to the city, an inhabitant asked 
him, "How do you like Elkhart?" 
"I think it's the greatest town ln. 
~~eq,eq,<Q-~,q,._q,eq,,q,~~eq,~~~l 
can really have a crash program of their determination to reverse § to deploy defenses. We cannot the nuclear arms race at the bar­
~ M I 0 WEST I N S TIT UTE QF N L P =~=E~!~:~t~rtr~7~~.~ ~~::k:b:~; ::: :u~::~~=~ iApn/ications ;;7v;uro-Linguistic ~ 
1:' 'J ~ 
Programming -A 2 Day Seminar § Nl.P is a group at tools and techniques that ~ teaches people how to be more effective 
h . . ­
w en speakrng or dealmg With others and § 
themselves. 
October 23-24, 1986 
§ 9:30a.m. -5:00p.m. 
~ 
$125.00 MasterCard, VISAt American Express cards accepted. § 
workers. 
Knott married Marion Burk on Aug. 2, 1928, in Baltimore. They now have 13 children and 49 grandchildren. 
Five years ago, Knott estab­lished a $20-milllon scholarship for Catholic students and institu­tions in the Baltimore archdiocese. He is a long-time financial advisor to Catholic Church leaders and has received several high ecclesial honors. 
Last fall Notre Dame awarded Knott an honorary doctor of law degree, describing him as "a patriarch, an entrepreneur and a builder who long ago learned that 'unless the Lord· builds the house, those who build it labor in vain.'" 
America," Buchwald answered. 
The man then added, "You wouldn't say that if you lived here." 
Buchwald's lecture was part of the Oaklawn FORUM series, an annual lecture series. His talk was sponsored by Oaklawn, First National Bank and The Elkhart Truth. 

Support the 

~ 
Americana Inn 
i 
213 West Washington South Bend, Indiana 
Call or write tor complete deta11s regarding this pro­gram and other programs and seminars... 
§  Midwest Institute of NLP  
§  1513 Miami St., Sourh Bend, IN 46613  §  
~  (219) 232-9636  ~  

&~<Q>·-?>~<Q><Q><Q-.<Q-.<Q-~'-O'i-.Q><Q><Q-.<Q> 
South Bend's  Mitchell's  
Total  --------·-------­ 
Entertainment  

center 
Indiana Club 
320 West Jefferson South Bend Indiana 
134-5313 
featuring


---·-·-----1 
• Top In Live Music & Video Entertainment Top 40 Rock Wed. through Sat., Open 9 P.M • Blues Every Other Monday 
• Food __M_i_d_m_·g-ht____ 
• The Ultimate in Nostalgic Nite Clubs 
D.J. -50's & 60's Music, Open 7 P.M. Daily 
• Food Service Till Midnight 
COMING ATTRACTIONS Saturday, Oct. 18-Dr. Bop & the Headliners The Best 50's/60's Show in the Midwest Monday, Oct. 20-Blues Monday-Lonnie Brooks Most Exciting New Talent in Blues 
~----------~----------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 7 
Jailed American identifies man who bombed Cuban plane in 1976 

Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -A top Sandinista official said Wednes­day that an American captured in Nicaragua identified a man he claims is a CIA employee in El Salvador as being involved in the 1976 bombing of a Cuban air­liner that killed 73 people. 
Deputy Interior Minister Luis carrion Cruz said Ramon Medina, identified last week by the American, Eugene Hasenfus, as one of two Cuban-American CIA employees working at llopango Military Base in San Sal­vador, actually was Luis Posada carriles. Posada carriles es­caped last year from a Venezuelan jail and has not been found. 
Hasenfus, captured after Nicaraguan troops shot down a rebel supply flight Oct. 5, said In a news conference last Thursday that Medina and Max Gomez, both Cuban-Americans, worked for the CIA and coordinated flights from llopango, EI Sal­vador's military airport. 
President Reagan and other 
S. officials have denied in­volvement of the American gov­ernment in the Contra rebel supply flights, which would vio­late congressional restrictions. 
carrion said at a news confer­ence that Hasenfus, shown a photograph of Posada carriles, Identified him as "a person he understands to be Ramon Medina." 
Asked if Nicaragua had Cuban or Venezuelan help in Identifying Posada carrlles, carrion said: "we have requested Information from the friendly governments to Investigate Cubans involved in the counterrevolution." 
He did not elaborate. 
carrion said Hasenfus told 
State Security, the Nicaraguan 
secret police, that "Ramon 
Medina is really Luis Posada car­
riles, responsible for the blowing 
up of a Cubana de Aviacion" 
plane on a commercial flight 
from Venezuela to Cuba. 
The plane blew up shortly after takeoff from a stopover on Bar­bados, killing ali 7'3 on board. Most of the passengers were Cuban athletes returning from a fencing tournament in caracas. 
"According to the declarations of Hasenfus and other sources that we cannot disclose publicly, Ramon Medina was an assistant of Gomez and was in charge of arranging documents at the U.S. embassy for Americans working for the CIA" in El Salvador, car­rion said. 
He added that was needed "since access to the embassy was prOhibited for the rest of the per­sonnel." 
Hasenfus said in the news con­ference after his capture that about 25 people assisted in the supply program in El Salvador, including flight crews, mainte­nance teams and the two Cuban­Americans. 
carrion, speaking at the Managua presidential offices, said Hasenfus told authorities Medina liked to brag about being a personal friend of Vice Presi­dent George Bush. 
He said Medina was respon­sible for organizing the flights from llopango to Nicaragua and on one occasion traveled to the military base at Aguacate, Hon­duras, to meet with rebel leader Enrique Bermudez. 
ElectronicI Computer Engineers... Computer Scientists ... Mathematicians... Language Specialists 
Latitude. That's what keeps a job invigorating -the chance to expand your interests, to take on unheard of challenges, to grow out as well as up. Well, that's precisely what the National Security Agency offers you as one of our people. 
NSA performs three all-important tasks. We analyze foreign communications. We safeguard America's vital communications. We set secur­ity standards for the government's mammoth computer systems. And we want you in on the job. · 
NSA offers choices upon choices. In assign­ments. In projects. In careers. But whatever your role, it's going to make a difference; it's going to produce immediate results. 
For an Electrical/ Electronic I Computer Engineer options abound. In fact, the entire technological and functional spectrum are yours for exploration. Microprocessor im­plementation and programming, communica­tions systems, LSI/VLSI, CAD/CAM, systems architecture and optics. Among others. 
To the Computer Scientist, we deliver op­portunities across the frontier of finite state machine development. The applications realm: systems design and programs, applications and evaluation, and computer security research and design. 
Mathematicians research a variety of mathe­matical concepts including probability theory, statistics, Galois theory and group theory. 
Language Specialists in Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian languages meet the challenges of translation, transcription and analysis head on. Every day. 
Whatever your field, you can be certain to find ~r..any paths cleared for you. You'll also find a competitive salary, enticing benefits and an appealtng suburban location between two vital urban centers-Washington and Baltimore. 
For additional information, schedule an in­terview with your College Placement Office. Or write to the National Security Agency. 
NSA will be on campus Nov. JDth interviewing graduating seniors. Limited summer positions available for those who have completedjunior year. 
NATIONAL 
SECURITY 
AGENCY 
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
ATTN: M322 (AAM) 
Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000 
U.S. c!t!zenship required for appl1cant and immediate 
fam!ly members. An equal opportunity employer. 
City-wide tour 
APPiooto 
Sumo wrestler Konisbiki enjoys a tour of Paris on the Seine River near tbe Eiffel Tower. Konisbiki was participating in a Paris sumo wrestling tournament. 

Hopes rapidly fading for finding survivors amidst quake rubble 
Associated Press 
SAN SALVADOR. -EI Salvador­
With hope rapidly fading of fin­
ding further survivors, rescue 
workers on Wednesday began 
dismantling the Ruben Darlo 
building. where hundreds of 
earthquake victims were killed, 
trapped or Injured. 
The five-story downtown office complex was flattened by the quake that hit San Salvador on Friday, toppling. destroying or cracking hundreds of buildings; leveling more than 2, 000 homes; leaving 982 known dead; and in­
juring more than 8,000. 
The Ruben Dario building was the hardest hit, but more than 150 people were pulled alive from Its wreckage by rescuers who tunneled Into the debris, crawling through dark holes and narrow passages to remove sur­vivors one by one. 
Even with those successes in five days of painstaking digging under a broiling sun and amid the stench of death, hundreds were feared still beneath the wreckage. Dozens of bodies were taken out in the first few days. 
Asked about a report in a local newspaper that the Ruben Dario building had been condemned after an earthquake damaged it in 1965, Roberto Viera, vice min­ister of communications, said: 
"It is a case about which I have no specific information. Without being absolutely sure, I heard there was a report (in 1965) where It was recommended that the building be torn down. But It appears technicians later felt it could be repaired and It was repaired." 
Marcel Chevrolet, a Swiss res­cue team member, said Wednes­day that the building was sur­veyed with sensitive listening devices the previous night, and no signs of life were found. 
"But you can't say there are no survivors because in Mexico they found people alive after eight days," Chevrolet said. "But time is running against them and their chances are getting less." 
He was referring to the Mexico City earthquake on Sept. 19, 1985, which was estimated to have killed at least 9,500 people. 
Heavy rains through the night complicated rescue problems, brought new threats of earthslides and created even more misery for the tens of ,thousands left homeless by the quake and reduced to living in -~ 
1
the streets, parks and other open 
spaces of this capital city of 
800,000 people. 
"What we're going to do first today (at Ruben Darlo) Is assess I the situation," Bill Dotson, a 
I member of a U.S. rescue team, said Wednesday. "Then they will ~ 
1
start taking the building apart." 
1
That meant using heavy con­struction cranes to lift huge con­crete slabs from the blockiong pile of rubble, a move r~ected earlier for fear of harming any trapped survivors. 
"There are Mexican mining en­gineers here who are very good at assessing the danger oftaking a building apart," Dotson said: "There will be no explosives, definitely." 
He said every effort would be taken to assure than anyone stili alive underneath would not be threatened by the shifting oftons of concrete, steel and other debris as the building is taken apart. 
"They will take a piece out and then they will bring the (specially trained rescue) dogs In to assess whether there is anyone in that area" he said. "If there Is, then they will resume rescue opera­tions to remove the person." 
President Jose Napoleon Duarte spoke to the nation on television for the third consecu­tive night Tuesday. He said this troubled Central American country suffered more In six seconds last Friday than In seven years of civil war. 
Duarte appealed anew to the world for aid, saying Ei Salvador suffered more than $1.2 billion In earthquake damage. 



"ieVV~_O_i_n__t____________Thu-rsda-~oc-tobe-rl~-198-6.-p_a~-8 
Dialogue is vital on campus and around world 
The Reagan-Gorbachev summit in Iceland. Hopes soared. At least they were 'talking'. Maybe the International Year of Peace would at least see a movement towards peace. Force was giving way to Reconciliation. Technological criteria was giving way to Dialogue. At last, Rambo was on the way out! 
Bruce Corrie 
guest column 
The Reagan-Gorbachev summit failed. Hopes fell. There was no use for all this 'talk' stuff...manipulators...Rambo again could be seen emerging from the shadows. 
The crucial questions are: Did Reagan and Gorbachev really dialogue? or was one speaking 'American' and the other 'Russian'? Were their aides 'translators,' or should they have been 'interpreters'? IfIn actuality there was no dialogue, then the summit was not a failure but some­thing that did not exist: a bargaining ses­sion. And It's so easy for a bargaining session to be converted to a stage. For genuine peace we need to move from 
. mere bargaining to authentic dialogue. How then do we dialogue? The process of dialogue begins with a realization that we live in a pluralistic world. No one has an absolute handle on 'truth'. No one an­swer has all the solutions. No one way of life brings peace of happiness. Each one has something to offer. That's why we need each other. 
The pluralistic world in turn poses us a dilemma: how can we co-exist when we have two or more mutually incompatible world views? Can the Marxist live with the Capitalist? Does the survival of one depend on the destruction of the other? 
There are no answers to these questions. Only attempts at answers. We have an obligation to search for solutions and through this hopefully begin to build bridges ofcommunication that could lead to reconciliation. 
One way is through dialogue. If we learn to understand each other's point of view perhaps we could flnd ways in which we could rise above our differences. Aut­hentic dialogue is a very radical concept. It represents a way of life that would change the way we view each other. Let me present two contrasting Image which illustrate this point. 
The macho image of Rambo can be contrasted with the image of the skinny, bald headed Gandhi. Both had different approaches to life. 
Rambo's solution to a problem was to physically catapult himself Into the situa­tion, &olve the problem and blow his way out. Force met with force. His human con­cerns co-existed with 'force', but force dominated him. He did not see any other way to solve the problem. His approach could be termed "Peace through Force." 
Gandhi's approach was different. His approach was "Peace through Reconcilia­tion. Reconciliation." The ingredients for a proper transfer of power in pre­independent India was twofold: The British needed to realize their exploitative nature and leave India. The Indians had to be ready for Independence, spiritually and intellectually. His non-violent move­ment addressed both these aspects. The British would be challenged morally to respect India's quest for self-reliance. At the same time the Indians participating in the non-violent agitation would be strengthened spiritually and intellectual­ly. Gandhi's method of dialogue was to raise the issue to a higher level. Both the Indians and the British were made to see the problem in a different light. He en­larged the capacity of the human heart to love. 
Learning to dialogue is not an easy task. It is a complex process and we need to be aware of this fact. 
Authentic dialogue takes place in an environment of what Joseph Lebret calls 'intelligent love'. Concern and openness to the other has to coexist with critical thinking. Either by Itself makes dialogue a caricature ending either in token sen­timentality or frigid rationalism. 
Some of the issues that come up In the process of dialogue has been explored by Ralmundo Panlkkar. They can be sum­marized as follows: Psychological: With what attitudes do you enter Into a dialogue? Some common ones are: one of Paternalism: "I. the All Knowing. can Tolerate the views of you lesser beings," one of exclusivism: "I am right, so You are wrong." one of ln­clusivlsm: "Everything can f1t into My framework," and one of parrallelism: "Both our views are Independent and can coexist." Philosophical: The philosophical issues that arise are related to the basic ques­tions: Who am I? and Who are You? How do we view the other? Technical: Do we know enough of the subject we are dealing with? Do we know enough of the other's point of view? Have we the capacity for critical thinking? 
The above gives a glimpse of the com­plexity of entering into dialogue with the other person. It calls not only for concern and effort, but also understanding. 
As mentioned earlier, our pluralistic world Increasingly confronts us with con­flicting views and approaches to a prob­lem. This can be seen in academics, in politics, in economics and also in reli­gion. 
In academics, conflicting theories ad­dress the same problem and come out with radically different solutions. In inter­national politics the new countries are challenging the authority of the super­powers. In international economics the South is laying claim to available re­sources and also to markets in the North. Within countries, various minority groups are claiming the right to be treated as equals and have a share of the pie. 
There is need to flll the gap in our in­tellectual education: the need to learn how to listen and communicate with the other. To be able to respond more fully to the query of the 'other'. Can you hear me? 
Rambo is lurking in the shadows. There is a need for people to come to under­stand each other and communicate with each other. The human spirit has known to rise to such challenges. 
The importance of understanding the other was recently raised on campus. First, Fr. Hesburhgh in his recent lecture stressed the importance ofAmerican and foreign students discovering each other. Then the Multicultural week on campus exposed us to the many cultural groups on campus. Last semester a group ofstu­dents from different backgrounds got to­gether and shared different approaches to Peace. This semester the International Student Organization with the help of other groups on campus will explore fur­ther ways in which we can improve our dialogue skills. One such meeting will take place in November. If you are Inter­ested In participating In such meetings, feel free to contact the International Stu­dent Organization located in the LaFor­tune Student Center. 
Bruce Corrie is a graduate student in eco­nomics. · 
The shorter your letter to tbe editor, tbe more likely it will be printed in Tbe Observer. So wben you write a letter to tbe editor, please keep it under 250 words. 
Write to 
Viewpoint Department P.O.Box Q Notre Dame, IN 
Doonesbury 
I'LL. TAKE
I OON'T QI<4Y, CMY, SO I'MA
IIIHAT 15 THIS, A 
YOU CAN'T FOUNO/T, 
YOUOOIAJN I'M 00/NG
KN1X//A/HAT UTTl& 8tH/NO INMY
5HA!<EIJOIIINf! IM 
Jc HOWME I OfF!rD... 
/AIITH ME, TH/50UTOF
YaiR& TAU<-PAYMENTS. YOU'VE
NCJT GREA51NG THE 
R£6RET, YOU HAVEN'T MU~ 
HONEY. I Ulv'E,51R.
A SHREJJ Of 
some new stationery and a new s1gn on the door and caillt the War Institute. That would do away with the contradiction of the same university celebrating both war and peace. The War Institute would also f1t In very well with the R.O.T.C. program at the University. Furthermore, you would not have to deal with another Notre Dame Incongruity-a Catholic university suppor­lng one of the largest R. 0.T. C. programs In the country. A War Memorial. a War Institute, and a school for Warriors -now that would be consistent. But would It be Catholic? 
Jay P. Dolan Professor of History 

Quote of the Day 
"Mid pleasures and palace~ though we may roam, be it ever so humble, there's no place like home; a charm from the sky seems to hallow us there, which, seek through the world, is ne'er 
met  with  elsewhere.  Home,  
home,  sweet,  sweet  home!  
There's  no  place  like  home!  

There's no place like home!" 
John Howard Payne (1791-1852) 
Serving both war and 
peaceisincong~ous 
Dear Editor: 
The incongruous is happening at Notre Dame this week. The University's brand new Institute of International Peace Studies is holding its Inaugural advisory board meeting to plan the future of peace studies at Notre Dame. Across campus from the Institute, University officials will dedicate a brand new war memorial. My Catholic education taught me in good Thomistic logic that war and peace, much like hot and cold, love and hate, were mutally exclusive. How can you celebrate both? Of course the war memorial is ded­Icated to the dead, those Notre Dame graduates who died In battle, and it is hard to deny the goodness of remember­ing the dead. No one would do that. But why not have a memorial to the living (Is that Incongruous?) and call It simply Peace, or Pro Pace? Prayers for the dead could be offered at the Peace Memorial as well as prayers for peace. 
Perhaps we should just leave the war memorial alone and not change it. After all, it Is set in tons of cement and would be hard to change. Let's change the In­stitute for peace; all we have to do Is get 
Garry Trudeau 



P.O.BoxQ
Keep it short 
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ............ ....... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ...... .......... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll 
Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan
sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the 
Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton 
policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ........... . Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt 
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz 
OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
their authors. Column space is available to air members of the community and the free 
expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Fol.lnded November 3, 1966 



Accent 
Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 9 
Silent prayers 

protest Apartheid 
MARY ABOWD 
features writer 
A prayer is spoken as some 50 heads bow in silent reflection. News of an innocent child slain, a group of students beaten by policemen, a black worker killed: reminders of the turmoil that seeths between blacks and whites in South Africa. Someone steps forward to share a reading or an original poem. The inten­sity is like a circuit of concern flowing through the members and uniting them in their cause: the lib-eration of blacks who are oppressed by the apartheid sys­tem in South Africa. 
Such is the scenario every Friday at noon as members of the Anti-Apartheid Network con­gregate on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building. Although primarily concerned with educat­ing the campus on the current situation in South Africa, the Net­work has also been trying to con­vince the administration of the importance ofdivestment to help bring an end to apartheid. 
"We have to keep the South African issue in the forefront be­cause it is important that Americans realize their role in bringing freedom to South Africa," said Network Chairper­son, Margarita Rose. 
As one of the founders of the Anti-Apartheid Network. Rose largely has been responsible for keeping the issue "in the fore­front;" in the spring semester of 1985, she and her classmates 
. took an interest in their econom­ics class where social issues such as divestment were discussed. The students started meeting outside of class with other social concern groups to discuss is­sues, and from this loosely knit discussion group grew the or­ganized and active Anti­Apartheid Network. 
Although many of its leading members have graduated, new leadership has emerged this year and is maintaining the standards and effectiveness of last year's group. "We have made students, faculty and the Board ofTrustees aware of Notre Dame's role in South African divestment" Rose said. Without the presence and pressure of the Network Rose said she doesn't think "the Board 
would  have  formulated  their  
policy  of  divestment"  she  
added.  

A recent meeting of Roman catholic bishops in the United States resulted in two recom­mendations about the South African issue: divestment itself and the initiation of stockholder resolutions to disinvest in corpo­rations doing business in the country. 
Although the Board of Trus­tees believes that its invest­ments can help bring about change in South Africa, Reverend Richard Zang, University invest­ment officer, said that the Board's investment policy will be regularly reviewed and changed 

A silent, respectful anti-apartheid demonstration on the Adminstratlon Building steps. 
as the situation in South Africa changes. "We are attentive to the needs of different groups in South Africa, and we are watch­ing with concern the situation there," Zang said. 
Since the 1970's, campus groups have struggled to per­suade Notre Dame to divest from South Africa; and now with the current situation raging, the struggle continues more than ever. Zang said that the Anti-
Eat less today ••• &remember 
MICHAEL RESTLE 
features writer 
Last week a "neat" and unusual thing happened. The World Hunger Coalition here at Notre Dame received an unsolicited donation. 
"When I heard, I was really ex­cited," said Laurie Konwinski, secretary of the WHC. Apparent­ly, Irish Head Coach Lou Holtz had been collaborating on an ar­ticle for The Sporting News and insisted that he would only ac­cept the check if it were made payable to the Hunger Coalition. 
"Sometimes you get the im­pression that nobody, especially in the administration, knows about us or even cares," said Konwinski. "But this makes me so happy. I just thought it was a really neat thing to do." 
For those others who don't know much about the WHC at Notre Dame, there will be ample time this week to find out. 
Today is the United Nations an­nual World Food Day. This spe­cial day was established in 1979 by the Food and Agricultural Or­ganization to commemorate the founding of the FAO on Oct. 16, 1945. 
As stated by the FAO, "World Food Day is about people ... es­pecially about those who are un­able to grow or buy sufficient food for the well-being of their families. World Food Day pro­vides people ... with the opportu­nity to consider the issues, to take stock and to intensify ac­tion." 
World Food Day was first ob­served in 1981 by more than 1 00 countries and has been an an­nual event ever since. The WHC at Notre Dame will begin its com­memoration of this special day by holding a simple lunch from 11 :.30 to 1:.30 at the Center for Social Concerns. The lunch will include vegetable soup and bread, rice, apples and other such simple foods, most of it donated. A donation of $.3 at the lunch will go to benefit the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) which is working devel­oping countries against infec­tious diseases, malnutrition and illiteracy. • 
This is the first time the WHC has held a special lunch for World Food Day, but other lunches are often held for inter­ests such as the victims of the recent Mexican earthquake, flood victims, and Viet Nam refugees among others. These usually attract about 100 people, faculty and students, and raise $200-400 for the cause. A similar turnout is expected for UNICEF. 
The dining halls will also be offering a similar meal during dinner. The Third World option (by no means the only meal served) will be offered on the left side of the South Dining Hall and in the a, b and c lines (closest to Haggar Hall) at North. 
Also, the regular 5:15 Mass at Sacred Heart today will be a spe­cial liturgy, celebrated by Fr. Aus­tin Collins, dedicated to the cause of world hunger and what we, as Christians, can do to help. A collection will be taken for the St. Augustine Soup Kitchen in South Bend. 
The final activity for the night will be a movie, "When the Har­vest Comes," at 7:.30 at the CSC. The flim deals with problems of poverty, hunger and develop­ment in South America. A discus­sion will follow the showing. 
The objective of these activi­ties, especially the meals, is not to let people know how it feels to be poor and hungry, because that of course, is impossible. 
"All we're trying to do," says Konwinski, "is raise awareness to remind people that the problem does exist and it Is real." 
Awareness has been the main goal of the organization since its inception in 1974. It was formed as a response to the crisis in In­dia at the time. In addition to the frequent lunches and coffee houses for various causes , the WHC also sponsors the Wednes-Apartheid Network and the Board ofTrustees "have the same goals but different methodology." Both groups want to see racial lll.iustice eliminated in South Africa but have different means for achieving this goal. 
Despite these seemingly polar views, Patrick Mullen, the Net­work's vice-chairperson and en­gineering representative, said, "We feel strongly about our cause. We have something we would like to see get done and we are going to keep pressuring the administration until they do something about it." 
Perhaps this best depicts the drive and dedication of the Anti­Apartheid Network: a group working to help an abused race come to know the meaning of their own word for freedom Amandla. 

Is it soup yet? Just ask Reni Cohan, left, and Patti Briody, right, as they cook soup for the United Nation's World Food Day. 
day lunch fasts at the Dining assisting other South Bend Halls. The group also holds dis-parishes In putting together cussion meetings, bringing In Thanksgiving baskets for the speakers from various depart-poor in this community. The ments from within the University WHC is also planning a retreat who have had some experience for later this year. in the Peace Corps or other in­volvement with the under­For more Information on how priveleged in Third World to get involved in the WHC or for countries. answers to those questions you 
Other activities include prepar­were always afraid to ask. contact ing soup for the St. Augustine Laurie Konwinski, secretary, or Soup Kitchen once a month and Mark Dragem, president. 

Accent 
Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page I 0 



HEADS STORIES 

Boston lacks 
tures' brilliance, from thejoyous opening chords of "Wild Wild

originality 
Life," you know you're onto some 
PAUL A. CIMINO 
features writer 
Well, they were just another band out ofNew England, on the road to try to make ends meet and yet by 1977, Boston was a big name in the world of rock and roll. 

Records 
Third Stage 
Their self-titled first album es­tablished them as a powerful group with a characteristic guitar sound developed by lead guitarist and M.I.T. electronics whiz Tom Scholz. In 1978 Bos­ton released Don't Look Back, an album of good tunes but a pack­age that was definitely less auspi­cious than their earlier effort. Now, eight years later, Scholz and singer Brad Delp have finally rejoined forces to create a new Boston album titled Third Stage. So where have these guys been for the last six years? Scholz' notes inside the album cover epeatedly mention that he has een mixing and remixing the ngs for about five years. It eally does not sound like it. happy framework abounds as f he wanted the tunes to lack 
in "We're Ready'' and "Can'tch Say'' rough edges pop up like jagged shards of a picture win­dow. 
It gets worse, though. Scholz may even be considered a modern day Rip Van Winkle. These songs sound old. Just plain old. He writes what would have been innovative and on the cutting edge of music In 1980. Unfortunately, in 1986 the sound that made Boston famous has been reduced to a banal form of musical expression. 
The record opens and closes with songs about girls and love. "Amanda," the first single from the album, Is pure Boston In both sound and development. The same thing however might have been said about the song If It was released In 1979. It sounds like "More than a Feeling" all over again. In contrast. the album's closer, "Hollyann" seems like it could be a bit younger. Not much, but a bit. The song shows a move toward a slightly different approach. In any case, Scholz must really have stagnated to have his musical style of writing remain virtually unchanged. 
Sandwiched between these two songs is a concept album exposing a simple pattern: the excitement of impending explo­ration, exploration and search-
Talking Heads good pop 
DON SEYMOUR 
features writer 
The Talking Heads' new album True Stories accompanies David Byrne's film of the same name, his debut as director and writer. 


Records 
True Stories 

However, Byrne emphasizes In thejacket notes that, "This is not a soundtrack to the movie True Stories, but Talking Heads' ver­slons of songs that appear In the movie." A quick listen confirms the suspicion that the band con­tinues its move into the pop song format started on last year's Little Creatures. 
My words may cause some un­necessary apprehension in long­time Heads fans. Although True Stories cannot match Little Crea­
important pop. telling story of one's best you can get.
inner cohesion. Time after timel-_..:.....__..:._..:.__________...;:____....:.....___________________1 
"Wild Wild Life" is this collec­tion's "And She Was." The first single and an obvious hit, it showcases typical Byrne lyrics: quirky, filled with familiar images and a bit obscure. The popiness may bother some, but at this point in their career, Talking Heads is a band with nothing to prove and in the band's eyes, pop songs are its natural direction. 
Other noticeable tracks in-elude "People Like Us," a tacky country number about simple people, normal Americans. Sings Byrne, 
We don't want freedom We don't want justice We just want someone to love 
The song's homey-ness reminds one of "Creatures of Love." Also here is "Dream Operator," about the dreams that get us through life and "Love for Sale," about the effects of television on youth and personal relations. 
In all the songs, Byrne's familiar themes of home, names the life. 
ing for physical and spiritual ends and meanings and resolu­tion with a decision to er\]oy the present and keep hope In tomor­row. Scholz is searching his soul in for his reason to continue making music. 
Lyrically, Scholz' honed excel­lence which made "Peace of Mind" and "Rock 'n Roll Band" so strong has dulled with time to the point that he utters philosophical-existential gib­
, berish In the second side's "A New World" and other places. "A man Is something that's reaiAt's not what you are, it's what you can feel." What exactly is he trying to say here? 
On the other hand, the genius which created "Fore Play'' and "Long Time" Is at work again. Both sides contain two Inter­twined pieces ("The Launch" and "Cool the Engines" on side one and "Can'tcha Say" and "Still In Love" on two) and while both dis­play some mixing problems, they have great potential. 
All discrepancies aside, there Is something about "Third Stage" that makes it exteremly er\]oyable and at times, even compelling. Delp has not lost his vocal ability in the least. On "Hoi-are sheer ecstasy to the discern lyann" he soars into the strata-ing musical ear as well as th sphere with crisp clarity and tone air-guitarist. "I Think I Like It' reminiscent of "More than a contains the best double lead ( FeelinQ.." In the end, Scholz' lead Boston trademark) on the albu lines amaze and They and can only be enjoyed. 
I 



Guadalcanal Diary disappoints 
W.TODD WAFFNER 
features writer 
Jamboree, Guadalcanal Diary's latest effort. was a bit of a disappointment. Not only did it not transport me to a higher plane Intellectually, but it did not get those primitivejuices flowing either. I really didn't expect much cerebrally; but based on the group's previous album, Walking 
RecordS 
~,,\\.,. 
\\ ·~ 
••••••J•allm•b•o•re•e

II 
In the Shadow of the Big Man, I did expect a little rise In the blood pressure. Unfortunately, It was not to be. 
Contrary to the release's title itself, Jamboree centers on a theme of loneliness. Haunting is a good description ofwhat is en­countered on the first side. Pic­ture being alone with only the stars and the big sky, and you have the feel of the first few songs. For.example, the lyrics "Fear of dying lonely with my prayer" are repeated on "Fear of God." The feeling of minuteness In the face of eternity flows very easily from this track. You con­tlnue on your nocturnal journey 
until "Michael Rockefeller," which Is probably the most readily accessible song on the whole album and will likely be the "hit" from this one. After lis­tening to "Michael Rockefeller" In fact, the remainder ofJamboree sounds forced. 
simplicity and desire for love and family recur with an ease and grace unusual In today's pop. Byrne's viewpoint is not at all angry, but mature, accepting of all that life throws at us. One David Byrne song is filled with more meaningful ideas and per­ceptions than an entire Madonna album. This is not the best Talking Heads, but it's pop I like to have around. 
It's curious how people like David Byrne can take our throw­away culture--such kitsch as tacky country, post-new wave folk, polka-like accordions, a chorus that sounds like a church choir (In "Love for Sale") and a sing-along with hand clapping (In "Hey Now")-· wrap It up in talk of TV, shopping malls, inter­states and Mastercards, and produce art. People like David Byrne and bands like Talking Heads should be national treasures, but it remains to be seen whether America is ready for David Byrne and Talking Heads. In the meantime, buy the album. It's not their best. but in today's pop market, it's the 
The second side represents a return to the adolescent high spirits of Walking in the Shadow of the Big Man, but it lacks span­taneity, leaving the material empty and lifeless. In "T.R.O.U.B.L.E." the band mem­bers do something quite unex­pected -play the blues -and as unlikely as it sounds, the result Is not at all unpleasant. After this glimmer in the dark we plunge back Into the false exuberance and pointlessness with "I See Moe" which, as the title suggests, relates the stooge Moe's dlsillu­
slonment with the loss his two cohorts. 
The final word is this: If you enjoyed Guadalcanal Diary's first effort "Walking the Shadow ofthe Big Man," you will probably be disappointed with "Jamboree," a shaded effort at best. 
· 
The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 11 
Sports Briefs 
A pep rally will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Officials for co-ree basketball are needed by NVA. Applica­tions are available at the NVA office, or call 239-6100 for more information. -The Observer 
Bobby Grlch, the California second baseman who suffered through a miserable American League playoff series, an­nouced his retirement after the Angels lost Game 7 to Boston 8-1 on Wednesday night. 'Tm through. I'm going to retire," Grich, 37, said following the loss that ended the Angels' season. Grieb's contract ended this year, and the team had not announced a decision on his future status. The six-time All-Star second baseman went just 5-for-24 in the series with eight strikeouts, and aommitted three costly errors, one while playing first base in place of rookie Wally Joyner. -Associated Press 
In the NHL last night. Montreal and Buffalo played to a scoreless tie, and Chicago and the New York Rangers tied, 5-5. New Jersey downed Vancouver, 3-2, Los Angeles beat Detroit. 4-3, and Edmonton defeated Quebec, 5-2. -Associ­ated Press 
Boston celebrates AL series victory; Rice excited after eleven-year wait 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Jim Rice, Boston's usually reserved veteran out­fielder, whooped it up andjoined in the champagne-popping party last night after helping the Red Sox win the American League pennant. 
"This is great. just wonderful," Rice said with a big grin after being doused with champagne by teammates. "It's been a long, long time for me, but its worth waiting 11 years for." 
Rice, whose three-run homer in the fourth inning helped Bos­ton take an 8-1 victory over Cal­ifornia in the seventh and decid­ing game of the playoffs, admitted, "I haven't been myself' in the playoffs. 
"''ve been pressing, but the team came through," said the big slugger, who had only five hits in the seven games against 
the Angels. "I haven't been at my 
best.  but  tonight  I  came  
through."  
Rice,  who  missed  the  1975  

playoffs and World Series as a rookie because of a broken wrist suffered in late September, said he is looking forward to the World Series with the New York Mets starting Saturday night at Shea Stadium. 
"It's going to be a lot of fun. May the best team win," he said. 
"It's awesome, just awesome," outfielder Dave Henderson, ac­quired in an August trade from Seattle, said. 
"It feels great. wonderful," Tony Armas said. "''ve waited so long for this." 
"We never gave up," Boston third baseman Wade Boggs said. "Even when we were down by two games and then by one, we came back here and said, 'Let's put to­gether a little three-game win­ning streak,' and that's what we did. We won when we had to in California Sunday and then we won the last two games here." 
"It's almost too much to believe," said reliever Bob Stan­ley, a 1 0-year Boston veteran. "All the work has been worth it." 
"It's hard to believe, especially 
· for me," veteran utility man Dave Stapleton said. "I had a miserable personal season. haven't gotten to play at all. Then 1 got a chance to go out there and be part of it. I feel bad for Bill Buckner hurting a little, but it gave me a chance to contrib­ute." 
Stapleton took over for Buck­ner at first base when he suffered a strained Achilles tendon in the third inning. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 
NEED RIDE TO OHIOI THURS. OR FRI. PREFERRED. $$ CALL MIKE X4549 
-SENIOR TRIP-SPACE FOR SALE. PRICE NEGOT. CALL KEVIN, 18te, 
3888 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
ATIENTION ALL GAMERS Do you pllly ~D. SblrflMI B.nlea or other rota playtng-Strelegll" blctlca gamu. Then come algn up In the a..ement of LeFortune lor The N.D. Gamere Club belwMn 4 and 5 Thuradeyl an­dad 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: NAVY BLUE BOOKBAG LOST IN SOUTH DINING HALL CONTENTS 3 SPIRAL NOTEBOOKS WITH I'Ot.DERS, 1 PAIR OF GLASSES, A NEWSPAPER, AN ECONOMICS BOOK, AND A CALCULATOR IF YOU FOUND THEM CALL ME AT 283-3038 
LOST:LOST-HELPIIII I LOST MY B­LAW NOTEBOOK LAST WEEK AND WOULD BE FOREVER GRATEFUL (MAYBE EVEN REWARD OF 8-PACK) TO THE DOMER WHO FINDS AND RETURNS IT. IrS A RED SPIRAL AND MIGHT HAVE BEEN LEFT IN NIEULAND ON TUESDAY w.JO, OR IT COULD REALLY HAVE BEEN LEFT ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL AMY AT £342711111111111111 
LOST: A SET OF KEYS IN A MAROON CASE, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 158A STEPHEN CHEMISTRY AND WASH­INGTON HALL IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT CARRIE, 345 BREEN· PHILUPS, 1337. 
PLEASE HELP ME-I'M LOCED OUT 0 MY DORMIIIoet my DETEX altha flret pep relly. II youlound one, pluu call ma beceuu I have the Identify-lng numbere. REWARD. call Sharon x1889. 
LOST: One white folder In South Dining Hall. I've already flunked my American Con8tllutlonal Lew teat. But I'm kind of fond of that folder eo I'd atlll like to get It back. II found, cell 1542. RIDERS NEEDED: TO THE PIT· TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK­1310 
LOST: Navy Blue Jacket In 120 HH 1..1 Thuraday II found pluu cell Mike £1695 Pleaulll 
LOST: Wire rimed glaaaea In a bin ceae. I can't ... anything. HELP II found cell Mike £1695 Thanka. 
LOST: A LONG TAN TRENCHCOAT AT THE CENTURY CENTER FRIDAY, OCT. 10 AT LEMANS SYR.IF ANYONE HAS SEEN IT PLEASE CALL JOLENE AT 2114-4408. 
LOST GOLD-TONE PEN ON 10.14-86 IN THE ADM. LOG. OR ON WAY TO LIBRARY.IT HAS GREAT SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE, AND WOULD APPRECI· ATE ITS RETURN. CONTACT DAVID VERRINDER, HISTORY DEPT, 348 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
Loat Gold Watch Manufacturer Buc­herer II you lind It call Batey at 2158 or drop It oil at L-1• 241. Thanka 
LOST· Blue Kazana )ean jacket on GrMn Field Sat. alter the game near the backltop. II found pleau call Moira £1287. 
LOST: 2 camerea lalt on a car 8t en­trance to D-2 Parking Lot laat S8turday afternoon. If found PLEASE call KEN ·2009. REWARDIII 
LOST: One box of Maclntoeh dlaka. 5 dlaka, of pereonal value only pleaae return to John f223. ~ard ollered. 
Loet: A gold necklace with pendant of Bleaeed Mother eo~here around Stepan Flelda. OF GREAT SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE.Pieau all Llaa 283-3824. Thanka and have a good dayl 
LOST: BLACK GE CASSETIE RADIO FROM TAILGATE ON SATURDAY. MIX TAPE TOO. CALL BODEY 2114-4136. 
STOLEN during NO-Pitt game, Canon T-70 camera w'100-200mm lena. II you know anything aboutthla, call Bob at 3305 
loat: atudent l.d. card with a.a.£ 381· 88-3703. II found, plaaee contact Suun at 289-3647 ASAP. 
LOST AFTER PITI GAME: 2 CAMERAS IN 02 PARKING. I NEED THEM BACK. THE FILM INCLUDES BLACK MALE PICTURES. REWARDI PLEASE CALL KEN £2009 
WANTED 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ANDOR FROM NASHVILLE AREA TO SHARE EXP. LEAVE OCT 20 RETURN OCT 26 CALL RICH X2024 
NEED RIDER TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR OCTOBER BREAK. LEAVING SUN­DAY. CALL FRAN AT 4404. 
RIDERS NEEDED: TO THE PIT· TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK­CALL ED lo08 
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'8-S$-CALL JOE-£1737 
wanted rldere to unlv. of llllnola lor fall break. luvlng uturday alter air force. call kerry 233-8703 alter 6 pm. 
NEED RIDE TO MINNESOTA (able to leave Fri. morning) HELP PAY FOR GAS STEVE HIPP, 283-2753. 
SPRINGBREAK '87 Campua Rep. Organize Sailing Chartere Ft. Leuderdala to Bahama• Commlaalon & FrM Crulu Call Captain Wllllama 1650 SW 23rd Terrance Ft. Leuderdale 33312 (305)583-11202 Anytime 
Wanted: Babyaltter. Part-lima, flexible houre. Knollwood. Phone Kathy Dvorak, 277-1538. 
RIDE NEEDEDII: TO THE PIT· TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK CALL JOHN 3oo8 
VA-D.C. II RIDERS NEEDED FOR OC· TOBER BREAK. CALL LAURA AT 4638 
ATIENTION TAILGATERS Are your lolkl coming from the North Shore thla weekend? I am coming back to cempua S8turday morning lor the game, and need a ride. II you can help, pleaae call Jefl 8t 277-8940. 
Telephone Work Available lor Stu· denta Full or Part time Apply 8t 50985 US 31 N or cell 2778882 PIMaent con­ditione 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS, WILL SHARE USUAL,LEAVE OCT.18,17,0R 18 RETURN 2&27 DAN 3476 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. 
BILLY JOEL IN CONCERT BILLY JOEL IN CONCERT Four tlcketa lor Fri. night, October 31 In Chlcego. Good ueta. Call 234-8186 alter 11 pm lor price, 8tc. 
RADAR DETECTORS Maxon RD1, aa advertlaed In Newaweek, but only $95.00 Get youre before break, and uve on tlck.ta. Plenty of atock on hand. Call Alfredo ~72-8582 or John 
283-1223. 
TICKETS 
$$ I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ DAN 3273 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'8-Iamlly'allrat vlalt CALL 272-3483. 
Parente want to party at NO, Need 4 AF GA'a and 6 SMU GA'a. Call Dave at2271 
I'LL GIVE YOU BUNDLES OF CASHI lor AF GA'a eo II you ain't got 'em, get 'am cauu (... above) cell Mike 3313 
MY BOSS FROM HOME WILL PAY YOU BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR PITT OR AIR FORCE TICKETS (STUDENT OR GA'S) PLEASE CALL 283-2493, JOHN. 
Need 2 GAa lor Air Force Call Jim at 283-1874 
Make aure my parent• pay ucond .. maater tuition eo I can get out olthla place. Sail me 2 GAa lor Penn State ao they can experience NO football. Call Mark at 2339. 
Help I I need 4 tlx to Air Force game. 
Will pay $$$1 Mary 277-8033 
daaperately need 4 Air Force GAa, 
Tony 2088 
SSS BEER NEED 1~ AIR FORCE GA'S 
CALL scon 1352 
Need Air Force tlcketa. Call 283-2325. 
Naad Two G.A. Tlx lor AIR FORCE. 
Pay Big Bucka. Call Joe Alter 6 p.m. 
287-4561 
HELPI DAD IS COMINGIII Need Penn State Tlxl Call Jim at 277· 7547 
ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX • 513­
881·9341 AFTER 5. 
I DESPERATELY NEED 3 SMU GAS. PLEASE CALL MARGARET, X4087. 
Will pey MAJOR BUCKS lor 4 PENN ST GA'a eo family can wltneaa the IRISH make the LIONS MEOWI Call Andy·x1243 
TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR 2 SMU GA'S. CALL 2848 
I'm deaperetel I need TWO GA'a lor the AIR FORCE game, or I'm a DEAD MAN. call Mike at 3104. 
NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'all CALL ROB ENRIGHT AT 232-81117 
NEED 1-5 GAS OR STD TIX FOR SMU AND PSU CALL PAUL 1758 
FOOLISH MORTALS ... The YOCKMONSTER needa 4 Penn Sblte GAa and 4 atud. tlx to lure un· auapectlng human ucrlflce vlctlma to NOI CALL 232-5478 to make a deal with the Devlll ...THERE IS NO ESCAPEIII 
I NEED AIR FORCE GAa.272-6308 
AIR FORCE GAa FOR SALE.277-{)296 
Donate: give Mlchlana Sheltered Workshop cllenta a big thrill-donate Air Force game tlcketa (handled only by the Center For Social Concerna) Drop of1111ck up tlck8ta at the Canter. 239-5293. 
FANTASTIC AIR FORCE GA'SII CALL 277-5837. 
8tlll need 2·3 GA'alor AIR FORCE cell Chrla x1371 
YO Need one atudant Air Force tlck8t Call Max 8t x1384 
IT'S FIXED My phone Ia finally fixed, eo everyone who tried to cell me teat wMk to ull me your AIR FORCE GA can call me now at 2443. Aak lor Mlka 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL JOHN: 1750 
HEY HEY HEY liT'S NICEII have FOUR AIR FORCE GAa. BUY THEM. pluaa. Call Amy at 283-2640. I have an anawerlng machine. Thanka. 
NEED 2 GAa AND 1 STUDENT TICIC'IT FOR PENN STATE WILLING TO MAKE A GOOD DEAL CALL CHRIS OR JACK AT 1788 
FOR· SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GAa. 234­8984 or 239-7943 
2 GA'a tor Air Force lor ulel Call1251 
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL COLLEEN 284·5132 
PERSO 
Chrlatlan theology contradlcta Deuteronomy 28; theological antt­Samltlam va. the doctrine of the "reaurrectlon of the daad" taught by Jeaua. WrHe: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, IN 48834-4475. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Going to, near, or thru Atlanbl? Deaparetely need a ride lor Fall Break I Call Rob at1548. Will more than ahare expenaea. 
SENIORS: FOR 1987-89, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOLY CROSS As­SOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP­PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER (7948) OR JANE PITZ (5521 ). 
SELLING ONE ROUND-TRIP PLANE TICKET TO L.A. FOR BREAKIII Call Trlcta 8t 1847 
JAMAICA! JAMAICA! JAMAICA! Sailing my bid lor $420, originally $500 Pleaae call Jim at 277-7547 
To Kerry and Thereea In London The Wlldllowera are alive and well and living 8t NO WE MISS YOU AND LOVE YOUIIIII New Hampahlre on Jan. 1 ?Ill K& MB 
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T­SHIRTS 
A VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT OF NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS LEFT. MEDIUMS ONLY $8, LARGE ARE FOR $8. CALL 272·3932 FOR INFORMA· TION. 
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T­SHIRTS 
RIDER NEEDED: 1-90 to Buflalo, ahara expencea. TIM 277-8459 
DON'T CRY FOR MY ARGENTINA, I ALREADY HAVE MY TICKETS FOR "EVITA" SUNDAY, NOV. 2, O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, SAINT MARY'S. GOOD SEATS STILL AVAIL· ABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE. 284-4828. 
Thank you St. Jude 
MISSED YOU WEDNESDAY. YOU KNOW YOU'RE VERY SPECIAL, DON'T YOU?. HOPE TO SEE YOU BEFORE BREAK, BUT IF I DON'T, HAVE A GREAT TRIP, ENJOY THE SfN, AND BE GOOD. VICTOR. 
o ooo~ooooooooooooooOonooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND. LEAVE FRI. OCT. 18 CALL DAN 4239 $$$ 
JUNIORS Third Thureday Bowling at Beacon Bowl 9:30 p.m.-? Sblrt break earlyIll 
CALLING ALL IN TRANSIT...LETS TALK ABOUT THE PASSION, R.E.M FANS. Compilation of very rare REM trecka· FEMME FATALE, TIGHTEN UP, BURNING HELL,TOYS IN THE ATIIC, MOREl atudlo quality, lmporta. Youra lor the price of 1 cheap album, taped on hi-qual. TDK-Taking ordera tor over break. Limited quantify avail. eo cell Chlneae Brothara Inc. now at2495 or 2550 lor Info. 
OCT. 191 "Markua" Have a great birthday & good luck In Waah. D.C.I Love, P & M 
SMC FRENCH CLUB SPONSORINCi A TRIP TO A WINERY SAT. NOV.1 $&¥EASON. FOR MORE INFO, CAL. HILLERY 284-5233. 
ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO FLORIDA OCT. 21 THRU 27, SOUTH BEND TO ORLANDO, $150. CALL TAMI AT HAIRCRAFTERS 284-5383. 
SMC SUNGLASSES ARE HERE SMC SUNGLASSES ARE HERE LOOK FOR SIGNS 
HEY, LOST MY RADIO FROM OUR TAILGATE ON SATURDAY. PARTY TAPE TOO. CALL BODEY 2114-4138. 
You know who you ara You dreaa kind of ch-y Th8t bra hangln out of your dreaa looka kind of aleazy 
You're ju8t naturelly HOT Not rMIIy a teau But you aren't utllllled lila guy bega you "pleeae" 
Chrla Zaback (And you uld they couldn't print thlal) You were right I 
Diane, II you -lhlll ad belorel return to lndlllna, your Wlah will be my com­mend. Umlt one wlah per vacation. Offer axplrea 11 :00 AM, October 25. Jim 
IDIOT OF THE MONTH AWARD: The FrMhmen of 4N KEENAN win thla honor lor both Sapt. and Oct., apelllng 'ut' E-D-T on all their fret algna. Give them a cell at 3364, 3385, or 3388 and congradulate them on their atupldltyl 
••• GO DAVE GO "" PULL THOSE DRUMS Ill Sign up lor the DAVE McMONAGLE FAN CLUB In room 213 KMnan or cell 3271 lor memberehlp Info. "" GO DAVE GO HO 
DAVID JACOBI uya "I don't want aympathy-lt'a rMII" Aak him why. 
Sandy, there Ia no "a" In the word ''tachnlcel." 
B I N 0 C U L A R S A L E S THURS & FRI NIGHTS • Dining Halla SAT • Before Alr1orce Game 
SENIORS: Tonight will be your big chance to 8trut your favorite llannela and naughtleet(???) nlghtlea 8t the PRE-JAMAICA P.J. PARTY at SENIOR BAR. Door prlna and P.J. conteal plua ralreahment apeclala lor all In coatuma. 
Happy 21at Birthday MaurMn Fitzgerald Love Mom Dad Dennie Tim Caitlin 
Welcome To The Santor Bar Happy 21at Maureen Fltzgareld 
-BREAK ROAD TRIPS SPEEDING TICKETS Thla doea not hava to happen to you, to uve money and pointe on your llcenaa g8t a redar d8tactor before going on the roed thla brMk. Check -Far Sal• and cell today I 
All, Jen, MC & Chrlatlnle: We're going to JAMAICA na na ne na naul Hal ????????? 
..........................................................,..... 
Happy Birthday Julie. Now th8t you're 20, are you allowed to have fun? We'll aak Mom. Lova, Mlaa Preggo, the equalizer, and other ferret lo-a. 
Pluae Help mal My ride lor break fall throughII need a ride to Letrobe, PA., or Plttaburgh. Call MaurMn 284-5230 

~ ~----~-----­
Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 12
The Observer 
_ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 272-7144 
.; SMC downs Wheaton, ties Wis.-Milwaukee 
By JANE SHEA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's soccer team won a game on the road and tied one at home this weekend, bringing their record to 5-8-1. 
Friday the Belles played an away game against Wheaton Col­lege and pulled out a 2-1 victory late in the second half. 
Wheaton took the lead early in the first half, making the score 1-0. But freshman Molly Meehan scored the tying goal with 20 minutes remaining in the second half, and the moumentum swung to the Saint Mary's side. 
Freshman Caroline Knoll then 
scored the winning goal to give 
Saint. Mary's a 2-1 lead. 
"This was our best game this season, "said Head Coach John Akers. "There was good team play. It was an exciting game." 
Sunday's home game against the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee ended in a 3-3 tie. 
The Belles were the first to score on a spectacular goal by junior Landry Clement with an assist by Meehan. 
"The goal was made off a cor­nerkick and was beautiful to watch," said Akers. 
The Panthers came right back and scored twice before the half. 
The second goal was disputed by Saint Mary's because they believed that time had already run-out. 
In the second half the Panthers scored another goal, but the Belles did not quit. 
"I give our team tremendous credit for staying in the game , " said Akers. "They could have given up, but they didn't." 
In the final 15 minutes two players scored to give the Belles the tie. Knoll and sophomore El­len Boyle registered the goals, with assists on both going to Meehan. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee declined the offer to play overtime, so the game ended in a 3-3 tie. 
"The team captains showed good leadership," said Akers, "Our team played well together, but Wisconsin had better individ­ual players." 
The Belles play again on Oct. 29 against Michigan State, a team they lost to earlier in the season. 
"Now that we know we can play against good Midwestern teams like Wisconsin, we should do well when we play Michigan, "said Akers. 
SObering
Advice . ~ cansa~e\
.. 
alife /.,. ~ 
Mets 
continuedfrom page 16 
previous at-bats, started the winning rally with a pop-fly double off losing pitcher Aurelio Lopez. Strawberry hit the ball off his fists into center field, and the ball fell between Hatcher and second baseman Bill Doran. The ball hit the artificial turf and bounced over Hatcher's head as Strawberry went to second. 
Knight, traded from the Astros to New York in 1984, then sin­gled to right field. Houston right fielder Kevin Bass' throw was up the third-base line and too late to get Strawberry. 
Knight went to second on the throw, and Jeff Calhoun relieved Lopez. Calhoun threw a wild pitch that sent Knight to third, and Wally Backman walked. A second wild pitch by Calhoun scored Knighht and Len Dykstra added a single off the glove of first baseman Glenn Davis to score the final run. 
New York reliever Jesse 
Orosco, who allowed Hatcher's 
home run, earned his third vic­
tory in the series despite allowing 
Houston to once again draw 
near. 
Houston's Mike Scott, who won 
two games while allowing one 
run and eight hits In 181nnlngs, 
was named the series most valu­
able player. 
The Mets have won three 
divisional titles since they were 
born of expansion In 1962. 
Houston's only other playoff 
experience was In 1980 when It 
lost in five games to the Philadel­
phia Phlllies, with four of those 
games going extra Innings. 
The longest previous game In 
postseason play had been Game 
2 of the 1916 World Series when 
the Brooklyn Dodgers and the 
Boston Red Sox played 14 In­
nings. 
Houston's final attempt at vic­
tory came when pinch-hitter 
Davey Lopes walked with one 
out. Doran singled to left, ad­
vancing Lopes to second. 
Hatcher singled to left-center, 
scoring Lopes with Doran stop­ping at second. Denny Walling hit Into a forceout. Glenn Davis singled to center, scoring Doran 
and sending Walling to second before Orosco struck out Bass to end the game. 
Mets reliever Roger McDowell, who entered the game in the ninth, retired the first 10 batters he faced, completing a string of 18 in row started by Rick Aguilera. 
When Bass singled with one out in the 12th, it was the first Houston baserunner since a one­out single l'ly Davis in the sixth inning. Bass was thrown out trying to steal second base. 
Houston reliever Larry Ander­sen worked three scoreless in­nings and retired the last eight batters he faced until giving way to Lopez in the 14th. 
Knepper had allowed only Rafael Santana's third-inning single, a cleanly struck hit up the middle, and Tim Teufel's single to center field in the eighth, going Into the ninth with a 3-0 lead. 
But pinch-hitter Len Dykstra led off the ninth with a triple and scored on Wilson's soft liner which deflected off Doran's glove. Kevi-n Mitchell grounded out, advancing Wilson to second, where he scored on Keith Her­nandez's double to right center. 
Dave Smith, who had 33 saves during the season but lost Game 3 on Dykstra's two-run homer In the ninth, relieved Knepper and walked Gary Carter and Straw­berry to load the bases. 
Knight hit a sacrifice fly, 
driving home Hernandez with the tying run. With a 3-2 count, Smith then got pinch-hitter Danny Heep, the ninth Met to bat in the Inning. on a called third strike. 
Phil Garner doubled in a run and scored to ignite the three­run first inning off left-hander Bob Ojeda, and the Astros had a lead that seemed safe with Knep­per continuing Houston's excep­tional postseason pitching. 
Knepper, who got no decision in Houston's 6-5 loss in Game 3 and was 3-1 against the Mets this season, walked just one and struck out six in 8 1-3 innings. 
The Astros pitching staffstruck out nine Wednesday giving them 57 for the series and breaking the playoff-record of 51 set last year by Kansas City against Toronto. 
Doran led off the Astros' first 
with a single and was forced at 
second when Mets first baseman 
Hernandez dove to his right to 
spear a ground ball by Hatcher. 
Running on the pitch, Hatcher 
scored from first when Garner 
doubled Into the left-center field 
gap. Davis' bouncing single to 
center scored Garner, and Bass 
walked on four pitches. 
Jose Cruz's soft line single Into 
shallow right field scored Davis 
with the third run of the inning 
as Bass went to third. The Astros 
then tried the suicide squeeze, 
but Bass was out in a rundown 
when Alan Ashby failed to make 
contact on the attempted bunt. 
Ojeda finally was out of the In­
ning -with Aguilera already war­
ming up In the Mets bullpen ­
when Ashby lined out hard to 
shortstop. 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting ap()lications for the following position: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Questions should be directed to Scott Bearby by Friday, October 17. 

211 E. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7799 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00pm ·2:00am 
9o(\ "o~.~. co~ $1.00 off entrance fee ~o, 

---~­
_, __ 
.. 
The Observer Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 1.3 
U.S. vs. New Zealand in yachting showdown 
Associated Press 
FREMANTLE, Australia -The America's Cup challenge series is only 10 days old and a United States boat already faces a grudge showdown down under ­not with defending champion Australia, but New Zealand. 
Stars & Stripes beat Canada II, and unbeaten New Zealand whipped Eagle of the United States on Wednesday in the opening round of the elimination series, setting up Thursday's confrontation for first place. 
Stars & Stripes, with Dennis Conner at the helm, came from behind after a bad start to beat Canada II by more than two min­utes. New Zealand, skippered by 24-year-old Chris Dickson and sailing in familiar waters, had little trouble disposing of Eagle for its ninth straight win. 
Stars & Stripes, at B-1, can tie New Zealand for the lead in the first round-robin series, the beginning of the long process to determine who will challenge Australia in February. 
America II, skippered by John Kallus and the only boat to defeat Stars & Stripes, also ran Its record to B-1 Wednesday with a 33-second victory over stub­born French Kiss, skippered by Marc Pajot. New Zealand is the only boat to defeat America II. 
The challenger elimination se­ries consists ofthree rounds. The first round carries a one-point award for the winners. The second round, in November, pro­vides five points for each win, and the third round, in Decem­ber, gives 12 points per victory. The top four boats move into the semi-finals. 

Canada II flew a protest flag at the end of its race with Stars & Stripes, charging that Conner had tacked too closely at the first windward mark when the boats were only five seconds apart. But Terry Neilsen, skipper of Canada II, dropped the protest after fin­ding he lacked sufficient evidence. 
Kolius had his hands full Wed­nesday as French Kiss pressed America II. the French yacht won the start by eight seconds, but America II grabbed the lead halfway to the first windward mark and went on to win. 
The rapidly improving San Francisco boat, USA, skippered by Tom Blackaller, won Its fifth race by defeating Jtalia by 3 min­utes, 52 seconds. USA is consid­ered the most radical boat in the series. It has rudders both in front and in back of the keel. 
Feelings between New Zealand and Conner's syndicate have been strained since the U.S. group demanded the New Zealand boat be resurveyed. 
Stars & Stripes fears the Kiwi boats, the only fiberglass boats in the America's Cup, may be Il­legally too light in the bow and stern. This would provide them The 12-meter yatch America II (right) leads last week. Details ofyesterday's action appear at with an advantage in heavy seas. Brittan's White Crusader in America's Cup action left. 
Red Sox 
continuedfrom page 16 
Mauch, whose team had been within one strike of the champi­onship on Sunday, had said after losing Game 6 that the decisive game would show which team knew how to win when it had to and It did, as another one of his teams collapsed under pressure. 
Clemens, after failing to win in his first two starts in the series, showed the form that made him baseball's most dominant 
PRICES GOOD THRU OCT. 18,1986 or while Quantities Last 


YOUR CHOICE 
case 24cons 
WARM 
ONLY 
LIMIT 3 CASES 
THE KING SAY5: 
Cooler lntr9ductory-Thursday only 1~Sample Sale 
Limit 1 bottle/customer at Roseland Ave. store only Lemon l Lager A premium Beer with Natural Lemon Ravor 
~~~-·] 
pitcher this season. He settled into a groove early in the 56­degree night and was never in serious trouble, striking out three while walking just one. 
Clemens gave up a leadoff single to Ruppert Jones in the seventh and was relieved by Cal­vin Schiraldi. Clemens walked off the field to a thunderous ovation and chants of "Roger, Roger." Schiraldi allowed an RBI double to Doug DeCinces with two out. But he struck out the side in the ninth. 
The Angels, meanwhile, kept up a pattern of misplays that belled their experience-laden team. Miscues by shortstop Dick Schofield and center fielder Gary Pettis made the first seven runs unearned and gave California eight errors in the series, tying for the most ever by one club in a playoff series. 

Marty Barrett, Boston's second baseman was voted the series most valuable player. He went 11-for-30 in the series with five runs batted in and his 11 hits tied a playoff record. 
Boston finished with only eight hits, including a solo home run by Dwight Evans in the seventh, but parlayed them into maxi­mum production. 
The Angels' offense, however, continued to miss rookie Wally Joyner, who batted .455 In the first three games before missing the final four with a bacterial in­fection that put him in a hospital. 
Jones gave the eager crowd of 33,001 a scare when he hit Clemens' first pitch of the game to the warning track in center field, where Dave Henderson caught it. 
Clemens then settled in and, despite not throwing as hard as he usually does, went on to win for the first time in five starts, ending his longest winless streak of the year. 
Candelaria, the Game 3 win­. ner, retired the first three batters 
before a couple of bad breaks 
began California's demise. 
Rice, just 4-for-27 in the series, led off the second with a grounder to the hole that Schofield fielded bu~ overthrew into Boston's dugout for a two­base error. With Boston relievers waving towels in the bullpen to stir up the crowd, a single by Don Baylor and a walk to Evans loaded the bases, and Rich Ged­man's RBI groundout advanced the runners. 
With two outs, Wade Boggs, who led the majors with a .357 average but was only 6-for-26 In the series to that point, hit a liner up the middle that caromed off the second-base bag and flew into short right field for a two-run single that made It .3-0. 
The Red Sox threatened In the third and had Don Sutton war­ming up in the California bullpen before breaking it open with five runs in the fourth. And again, It was a leadoff error that triggered the outburst. 
Henderson opene a long fly to center that Gary Pettis, one of the best defensive outfielders in baseball, dropped after reach­Ing with a jump that may not have been necessary. The ball scooted away for a three-base er­ror, and Henderson trotted home on Spike Owen's opposite-field, bloop single to right. 
Candelaria got the next two batters before Dave Stapleton, who had entered the game after Bill Buckner strained an Achilles tendon on an Infield hit, drew a walk. 
That brought up Rice, the crowd was on Its feet, trying to rally its slumping slugger. This time, he did not disappoint them and, after taking two feeble cuts, he powered a 3-2 pitch deep Into the screen atop the 37-foot-high wall in left for a three-run homer. 
Rice's blast whipped the fans into a frenzy, and the teammates he had just driven home reveled in the excitement while awaiting him at home plate. The celebra­tion continued in the Boston dugout, and as Candelaria slowly departed in favor of Sutton, Rice came back out to wave his cap in acknowledgement. 
From there, it was merely a matter of how big the final mar­gin would be. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
schedule -the University of Lowell, Gordon College, Bentley College and Holy Cross. Llnden­feld looks forward to the chal­lenge of playing these tough teams. 
"These are four strong field hockey schools," she said. "I look for Holy Cross and Bentley, both Division I schools, to be tough." 
The games should also pro­vide an Interesting contrast of styles. Notre Dame plays a con­trolled, passing game, while the Boston schools play a more physical game. 
------------·~-~~-~--­
f 
The Observer 

i3 •.,,\ '"""""' ~'.ft<\!'1>''" }.~t 
The Observer1Justln Smith 
Strong pitching from Irish hurlers Ilke Mike Passllla (above) Isjust one ofthe reasons the Notre Dame baseball team Is much Improved this year. 
ND defends NSC title after Rolex qualifiers 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer The Notre Dame women's ten­nis team will end Its fall season by competing In the Rolex Qualifier tournament and the North Star Conference Cham­pionships over October break. The Irish will travel to Madison, Wis. for the Rolex Qualifier, held October 16-18. It Is a regional tournament consisting of 64 open-draw singles and .32 doubles. Only the top two finis­hers in singles and doubles will advance to the Rolex Nationals played in February. Five Notre Dame players have received Invitations to compete. The Irish will send their top four singles players, junior co-captain Michelle Dasso, freshmen Step­hanie Tolstedt and Alice Lohrer, and senior Co-captain Tammy Schmidt. The teams of Dasso and Tolstedt and Lohrer and Natalie llllg will represent the Irish in doubles. Several Top 20 teams will par­ticipate in the tournament, in­cluding Indiana, Wisconson and sixth-ranked Northwestern. Head coach Michele Gelfman 

Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 14 
Fall season summary 
Youth strengthens Irish baseball 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
After last year's 22-28 season, several people involved with the Notre Dame baseball team took unique approaches to help the Irish Improve. If the fall season Is any Indication, it worked. 
Despite encountering several problems with rainy weather, the Irish are nearing the end of the fall season with a .3-1 record and several successful Blue-Gold in­trasquad games. The Irish con­tinue their fall season with a game against Tri-State 2 p.m. today at Jake Kline Field. 
Three players leading the way for Notre Dame have been fresh­man pitchers Mike Coffey and Brian Plotrowlcz and freshman first baseman Dan Peltier. Along with Jeff Flanagan, Michael Flynn, Ed Lund, Tim Reardon, Mike Rotkls, Kevin Smith and Dave Yawmin, they represent a freshman class with great poten­tial. 
"From what they've shown so · far, they show a lot of promise and potential," said Head Coach Larry Gallo. "It's one of the better freshman classes we've had so far." 
Piotrowlcz and Coffey have been particularly effective In shoring up the Irish pitching staff. Piotrowlcz has allowed only one run in 16 and 2-3 Innings pitched and recorded 1.3 strikeouts, and Coffey has a 1.50 earned-run average in five games. 
Just ask junior Kevin Chenall about the Improved pitching. The ace of the rotation for the last two years, he was injured throughout last season. He had his injury diagnosed by Dr. Ar­thur Pappas, the doctor who worked on Boston Red Sox star Roger Clemens over the off­season. But with the addition of the two freshmen, even Chenail Is worried about his role on the staff. 
"''ve got to start worrying about my own job as far as playing with all the pitchers that are getting healthy," said Chenail. "It kind of pushes you when you realize there's some­one there to take your spot Ifyou don't get your act together. Judging from the fall, I think the pitching Is looking good. The starting rotation Is solid, and I'm sure we'll find some good relievers with Mike Harmon and John Gleason." 
Peltier used some practice In the summer to his advantage with his impressive fall statistics. Peltier has 11 RBI's In 22 at bats. 
"I played In a summer league with competition similar to this, and I did pretty well, so I was hoping I'd do well here," said Pel­tier. "From what I've seen we've done fine. The pitching's done well, and the hitting has been good. The Blue-Gold games are a good test for us." 
Fellow Infielder Pat Pesavento participated in the Cape Cod League over the summer. His team, the Kettleers, led by Gallo, reached the finals after a 45­game season. 
"I saw great competition In the Cape Cod League," said Pesavento. "Guys from Arizona, UCLA and Florida State, and guys you saw in the College World Se­ries were in that league. It was compared to Class M ball." 
Junior Steve Skupien also has added punch to the Irish infield, with a .424 average, two home runs and 10 RBI's during the fall. 


only expects her team to play to the best of Its ability. 
"We've got to continue doing the things we've worked on during the faiL" said Gelfman. "We've got to be intense and tournament tough. We need to start ripping through some people." 
The teams the Irish are hoping to rip through will be here Oct. 24-26 for the North Star Confer­ence Championships. The Irish are seeking their fourth con­secutive NSC title and only Mar­quette is expected to provide any real competition. 
Marquette is the only NSC team the Irish have faced this year. Two weeks ago they handed the Warriors a 6-.3 defeat in Mil­waulkee. 
More than just the title is at stake for the Irish at the tourna­ment. 
"It establishes the fact that we're a growing program and we're able to keep pace with some good teams," commented Gelfman. "The NSC Champion­ship Is not an end-all, be-all for our fall season. It's just another step In becoming a better team." 
BUOWEISER8•KING OF BEERSe•ANHEUSER·BUSCH. INC.•ST. LOUIS 


-----~---~ -~ 


'JI['~~tt)L~------------------------------------------------------T-hu.r.s.da•y•'•O•c•oo•b•e•r•16•,•1•9•8•6•,•-•p•ag•e---15
Bloom County 

SAB PRESENTS ... 
.... A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE 
.. 
...... .. .. 
..... .... 
......... Wednesday Oct 15 Engineering Auditorium 
...... .... 
.... ..... Thursday Oct 16 
......... 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 
...... .... 
............. ... 
Nofood or drink permitted in Auditorium
..... ..... 
5o.. WR/1 WIIS M .. M tll5T M556t..O~ HIICJ !JeGN /WIIfl.11Ml lltr'eK!CII~ llKM6V FORC€5 M08fi..IZ€fl... Ut<e 7!1€ Af?MY..• 
11l€f(E: H6 IS/5HO(JT/ 
/ 
Beernuts 
'WI-IAT ARE YOU L(X)/(1/J I AT? 
I 
Campus 
11:.30 a.m. -1:.30 p.m.: Simple lunch, $.3, sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition and the CSC, proceeds benefit UNICEF, In the CSC .3 -6 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Colloquium: Leslie Armijo, Dept. of Political Science, Uni­versity of California, Berkley; Marta Beker­man, advisor, The Argentine Ministry of Eco­nomics Research Fellow (CONICET); AIE1]andra Mlzala, Professor of Economics, Unlversldad de Chile, Santiago, 258 Fitzpatrick Hall .3:.30 -5 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, MacWrite, limit 12, 108 Computing Center, Free and open to the public; to register, call Betty at 2.39-5604 4 p.m.: Radiation Laboratory Seminar, "Second-Sphere Effects on the Photoc­hemistry of Coordination Compounds," by Professor Luca Maggi, Instltuto Chimlco, Unlversi_ty of Bologna. Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory 
4:45 -6:45 p.m.: Simple meal, North and South dining halls, sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition 
5:15 p.m.: World Food Day Mass celebrated by Father Austen Collins, Sacred Heart Church 7:.30 p.m.: Film, "The Business of Hunger", 
esc 
Focus On 
Berke Breathed Far Side 
... 1/Nfl 711€ P~SS. K6ACTION WIIS SWifT"' 
,flftXJT/5H()()T/ I 
8 p.m.: Graduate Organ Recital: David Lines, Sacred Heart Church 
10 -11:00 p.m.: Radio talkshow, Dlsmas House, where Notre Dame students and ex­offenders live; sen!or Jamie Cantorna, junior Kristen Williams and ex-offenders John Nuel­ler and Tony Harris, host Lynne Strand, WVFI­AM 640, calls accepted at 2.39-6400 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Spaghetti with Meatballs Sweet f!t. Sour Pork Vegetable Cheese Stuffed Peppers Grilled Pastrami & Swiss on Rye 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet f!t. Gravy Pork Chow Mein Swedish Pancakes 
Deli Bar 
Treehouse nightmare 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Seed 6 Declare 
11 Walters of TV 13 Helmut or 
Mike 15 Left out 16 Point in an 
orbit 17 Incentive 
payment 18 Sawyer of TV 20 Terminus 21 Pouches 22 Spectator 24 Sniggler's 
prey 26 Skillet 27 Vipers 30 Posed 32 Candid 34 Esprit de 
corps 36 Paid athlete 37 Cut of meat 39 Fond du­40 Set fire to 42 First name 
in mystery 43 Adam of rock 44 "Wizard of Oz" 
dog 45 6 on the phone 46 Uncle of note 48 Moved slowly 51 Engrossed 54 Quiche 
ingredient 56 Greeting 58 Newsman PyJe 59 For that 
reason 61 Ridicules 63 Laborers 64 The-seat 
(position 
of control) 65 Despots 66 Vaticinators 
DOWN 1 Polynesian island 21vy League 
eleven 3 Dull 4 Dam itl 

C/1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved 
5 Before 6 Public tiff 7 Flung 8 "-Blue?" 
(old song) 9 Spotted amphibian 
10 Early garden 
11 -up (appears suddenly) 12 Increase 13 Toledo's land 14 A Williams 19 Tennis star 23 Com unit 25 Misplaced 26-diem 28 Scheme 29 Faction 30 Roasting rod 31 Jason's ship 57 Strange 33 Bekery item 58 Ashtabula's 34 Wire measure waterfront 35 Wallet items 60 Genetic 38 Tijuana gold letters 41 Charged atom 62 Hesitation 45 Thaws sounds 



r------_-___---_----_-----­
Thursday, October 16, 1986, -page 16


S~orts 
It's New York and Boston in the World Series 
Mets do it again, 
Bedeviled Angels down Astros, 7-6 fall to Red Sox 
Associated Press 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Ray Knight keyed a three­
BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox, with run 16th inning yesterday and the New 
pitching ace Roger Clemens leading the York Mets survived one last Houston 
way, thrashed the California Angels, 8-1,Astros' rally to win their third National 
last night to win Game 7 of the American League pennant. 7-6, in the longest 
League playoffs and earn a trip to the postseason game ever. 
World Series. The Mets' extra-inning rally was their 
Boston completed its comeback from second of the game as they erased a .3-0 
a last-strike .3-1 deficit in the series In deficit in the ninth inning and took a 4-.3 
surprisingly easy fashion and put a crush­lead in the 14th before the Astros' Billy 
ing end to the season for the Angels, while Hatcher tied it in the bottom of the inning 
also continuing the big-gamejinxthat has with a home run that hit the screen at­
always plagued Manager Gene Mauch. 
tached to the left-field foul pole. 
Clemens' four-hit pitching into theNew York will open the World Series at seventh inning and a towering three-runhome Saturday against Boston, who won homer byJim Rice helped deny Californiathe American League playoff series. 
the first pennant in its 26-year history,It may take that long for the Mets to and also re-routed Mauch's plans for hiscome down from their pennant clincher, first World Series in 25 years of manag­a game that provided brilliant pitching Ing.
-and clutch hitting and saw the Astros' 
dream finally die with the winning run on The Red Sox. aided by two crucial er­
base. rors, knocked out John Candelaria in the
Astros left-hander Bob Knepper held fourth In taking a 7-0 lead. They then
the Mets to two hits before they rallied in cruised Into their World Series showdown
the ninth, while Mets pitchers shut out with the New York Mets, who won the Na­
the Astros from the second until the 14th. 
tional League pennant earlier in the day
AP Photo 
by beating Houston in six games. GameDarryl Strawberry, hitless in four 
New York's Jesse Orosco and Gary Carter last night as the Mets came from behind 
1 will be Saturday night in New York. 
(above), elated over Tuesday's extra­beat the Houston Astros, 7-6 see METS, page 12 inning victory, celebrated once again see RED SOX, page 13 
ND field hockey falls to talented Michigan State team, 5-l 
By DAN COYLE damper on Irish hopes within the was midway through the first kept the Spartan's high-powered down its leading scorer. Sopho­Sports Writer first three minutes. Michigan half, when DiGiacomo was hit in offense under control. more Christine Sweeney contin­State's sharp passing and super­the knee by a stray Spartan stick. Head Coach Jill Llndenfeld was ued to impress Lindenfeld with 
The Notre Dame field hockey ior speed created opportunities She did not return to the game. realistic about the Joss. her improving play at halfback. team went into Wednesday's and quick shots by Colleen Kelly Michigan State gained momen­"I was not that suprised -their and senior Bernadette Suplik game against Michigan State and Stephanie Allan, who con­tum, scoring twice more before girls are very talented and they stepped in when DiGiacomo was hoping to even its record at 5-5 verted them Into the first two the end of the first half. played well as a team," she said. injured, contributing a fine, hus­and head into their Boston trip goals of the game. Corinne Though the ball was on the "Today, Michigan State was the tling game to the Irish effort. on a high note. The Irish left Car­DiGiacomo replied for the Irish, Irish side of the field for most of better team." The team flies to Boston this tier Field on the short end of a knocking home a Benet DeBerry the second half, Michigan State There were some bright spots weekend for a series of games 5-1 score, disappointed as a centering pass at the six-minute scored only once more in the for the Irish. Sophomore over break. Four teams un­team though encouraged by mark to put Notre Dame within contest. Notre Dame's defense, Caroline Berezny,' who was familiar to the Irish are on the several fine performances. reach at 2-1. led by Benet DeBerry, Mary Jean matched up against Michigan 
The Spartans put an early The turning point in the game Beetel, and Caroline Berezny, State's Mary Joe Cullen, shut see IRISH, page 13 


New faces to aid struggling Irish 
Is Lou Holtz setting his watch ahead to 1987 already? 
That's what many Notre Dame fans will be asking themselves this Saturday when a few new faces show up on the field for the Irish in their game with the 5-1 Air Force Academy. 
Yes, freshman tailback Anthony Johnson will start and, yes, freshman fullback Braxston Banks will share time with regular Pernell Taylor. Also, fresh­man defensive tackle JeffAim should see more time in his back up role to Robert Banks. Okay, throw In those two rookie defensive backs that Holtz has tabbed second-string. Stan Smagala and Pat Terrell probably will see only a couple of sets at the most. . anyway. 
But if Holtz isn't giving up his tattered ship yet. then what is he doing, you ask? 
The answer is easy. Holtz is simply trying to patch together a team that suffered a season's worth of surprisingly-serious injuries this week and, at the same time, light a fire under a team that he feels has worked too hard to let the disappointments of the past couple of weeks break its collective back. 
Johnson, the 6-1, 220-pound freshman who already has picked up 109 yards on 22 carries this year, will make his first start in place of the Injured Mark Green. Green, who suffered a deep thigh bruise In the Pitt game, missed some practice this week but should-be able to play If needed. Banks, meanwhile, has continued to impress coaches In practice enough to warrant some playing time. 
All of the other aforementioned rookies, and per­
haps a few other Inexperienced players not men­tioned, are simply stepping up on the depth chart to fill in the several open places cut out by the sur­geon's knife. Both senior split end Alvin Miller and classmate safety Mike Haywood underwent surgery · this week for bad knees. Miller is out for the year, while Haywood could return for the final two games. 
As if Holtz hadn't heard enough bad news from the doctor's office this week, junior safety Brandy Wells went down Tuesday with torn knee ligaments and will be in a cast for at least six weeks. 

Marty
Burns 
Football Notebook 
Holtz, therefore, has little choice but to go with some of his younger players. As for the spark this new transfusion could generate in his team, however, Holtz is just glad for the chance to reward some of his players who have worked hard. 
"I say this from the bottom of my heart." said Holtz. "Despite all. the adversity, and despite every­thing that has gone against us, this football team went out (Monday, after the Pitt loss) and worked with an honest and sincere effort to get better. Things are going to get better for this team, I have no doubts about it." 
As for any sudden youth-movement on the Irish team, Holtz won't even look at his watch until next week -when Notre Dame has an open date. Only then, after a week to evaluate his team, will Holtz make any drastic changes with next year In mind. 
In case anybody's wondering about the Notre Dame quarterback situation this week, Holtz has once again affirmed regular Steve Beuerlein as his starter. Ap­parentlyjunior signal-caller Terry Andrysiak. who did not attempt a pass and played only three series last week after being named the starter, will continue on in his previous role as a back up. On Tuesday, however, Holtz did hint that the Issue could get cloudier if sophomore Steve Belles continues to play well in practice. 
"With the quarterback situation, you try to get chemistry," said Holtz. "A Heisman Trophy candidate is notalways possible, so youjust want a quarterback whose going to give you the right play and utilize the weapons we have on our football team. At the present time, Steve Beuerleln gives us the best plays In the most opportune times and Is the most con­sistent doing that. 
"Beuerleln is the number-one quarterback. But I do think we will see some of Steve Belles before this season is over as well." 
• 
Holtz leaves little doubt about his mental attitude and that of his 1-4 club, when asked by inquirers. 
"Are we embarrassed? -no," said Holtz in a tone that would be mildly described as emphatic. "We're upset, yes. Frustrated, yes. Disappointed, yes. 
"But am I embarrassed? There ain't no way In this world. You go around and people act like you should be embarrassed, but I can't be when I see the way the young men work. I can't say anything negative about the players. I can say a million negative things about the coach, but not the players. We're all tired of losing." 







