Dining hall workers -page 6 


APPhoto 
Ablwe: The space shuttle Challenger blasts skyward seconds before a huge explosion destroyed the spacecraft. Below: The Chal­lenger's crew pose in uniform before their last flight. From left to right: Ellison Onizuka, Michael Smith, Christa McAuliffe, Francis Scobee, Gregory jan1is, Ronald McNair, andjudith Resnik. See story 
rlgbl. 

Challenger explodes in flight; seven aboard presumed dead 
A.88oclated Pre88 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Space 
shuttle Challenger exploded into a 
gigantic fireball 75 seconds after lif­
toff yesterday, apparently killing all 
seven crew members, including 
schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe. 
Fragments of the SI.2 billion 
spacecraft, one of four in NASA's 
shuttle fleet, fell into the Atlantic 
Kennedy Space Center launch oad. 
More than two hours after the accident, officials said no announce­ment on the fate of the crew would be made until all search-and-rescue efforts were exhausted. But it seemed virtually impossible that anyone could survive such a cataclysmic explosion. 
No American astronaut had ever been killed in flight before yester­day. 
The explosion occurred as Chal­lenger was 10.35 miles high and 
8.05 miles downrange from the Cape, speeding toward orbit at 1,977mph. 
The shocking spectacle was wit­nessed by family and friends of the astronauts who had gathered at Cape Canaveral and by millions more around the country who viewed the launch on television. 
President Reagan postponed last 
night's State of the Union speech for 
one week and sent Vice President 
George Bush to the Cape to observe 
the investigation. 
Reagan told reporters at the White House that "it's a horrible thing all ofus have witnessed. I can't rid myself of the thought of the sacrifice of the families who were there at the Cape and watching this tragedy also. I can't help but think what they must be going through." 
Bush, after his arrival at Kennedy Space Center, said "today's tragedy reminds us that danger awaits all who push back the frontier ofspace. It reminds us that the great ad­venture ofspace travel requires men and women ofspirit and bravery." 
Among those who witnessed the explosion were McAuliffe's husband Steve and their two children, Scott, 9, and Caroline, 6. Also on hand were members ofScott's third grade class from Concord, N.H., displaying a large "Go Christa" banner. 
Many cried after the explosion, 
friends hugged one another and 

parents quickly cleared children off 
the viewing bleachers and aboard 
buses. 
McAuliffe's parents, Ed and Grace 
Corrigan, of Framingham, Mass., 
stood silently during the launch, arm 
in arm. A NASA official climbed the 
bleachers, walked to them and said 
"the vehicle has exploded." 
Mrs. Corrigan looked back at him. 
"The vehicle has exploded?" she 
asked. He nodded silently and the 
Corrigans were quickly led away. 
McAuliffe, 37, had been selected 
from 1l,146 teacher applicants to 
be the first to fly in NASA's citizen-In­
space program. 
The launch had been delayed 
repeatedly, most recently because 
offears that Icicleson the launch pad 
this morning could harm the shuttle. 
It was the first in-flight disaster in 56 U.S. manned space missions, al­though three astronauts were killed in a launch pad fire during a test -19 years ago Monday. In January 1967 astronauts Virgil "Gus" Grissom, Ed-
see SHUTTLE, page 3 


HPC discusses parietals survey 
By ALEX PELTZER are too severe and none thought also be used in his presentation Copy Editor they are too lenient. to the CLC. 
•Only 4 percent thought that Another issue brought up at 
An overwhelming majority of reduction of minimum penalties the meeting was the ability ofhall 
Notre Dame students believe the would greatly hinder the obser­members to have parties 
penalties for parietals violations vance ofthe parietals code, while restricted to those 21 years ofage 
are too severe, according to tab­36 percent thought it would not or older. Stanford Hall President 
ulated student reponses to the at all. Jim Crandall said that he had the 
parietals survey presented to the •70 percent thought that the okay from Vice Presdient for 
Hall Presidents' Council last parietals code does not enhance Resident Life John Goldrick to 
night by Bruce Lohman. the growth of responsible young have a party in his dorm at which 
Lohman, who is serving as adults. alcohol could be served. director of the survey, said it had Lohman said that these results Crandall told the council a total of 227 responses out of would "provide a solid support about the ability to rent out the 500 polled. He said the survey to take to the CLC (Campus Life party room of a dorm. "Treat it was taken before Christmas Council)." Lohman is one of the like you're renting out a space off break. representatives who works with campus," he said. 
The survey found that: the CLC concerning the parietals Crandall reminded the council 
• I46 of the 227 asked agreed question. of the rules for a "21 party." He 
with the concept of parietals, Lohman also said the same sur­said that every dorm participat­but... vey taken ofrectors, assistant rec­ing had to provide a bartender, 
•H3 percent thought that tors and faculty members had not penalties for parietals violations been tabulated yet but would see HPC, page 5 

State of Union address rescheduled by Reagan 
WASHINGTON President 
Reagan yesterday postponed the 
State of the Union address he had 
planned for last night and instead 
prepared to address the nation on 
the space shuttle tragedy. 
"The president, like all Americans, watched this on television," presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said. "He felt very keenly the emotion that must be felt by the families down there, who have watched this in person, and very keenly what the American people must be feeling. 
"He consulted with the con­greesional leadership, and the con­sensus of opinion of the executive and legislative branches was that it was appropriate to postpone" the speech, his fifth annual address of the state ofthe union. 
So, Speakes said, Reagan will deliver the speech to a joint session of the Senate and the House next Tuesday. 
Reagan had been scheduled to, in the words ofone aide, "redefine the role of the government for the next decade and into the next century." 
Speakes also said Reagan was delaying three days of campaign· style speech-making he had planned to buttress his State ofthe Union. 

President Reagan halted an Oval Office meeting with top aides when he learned the shuttle carrying the teacher he sent into space had ex­ploded and stood in "stunned silence" as he watched a television replay ofthe fiery disaster. 
"It's a terrible thing," Reagan told reporters. "I just can't get out of my mind her husband, her children, as well as the families of the others on board." 
In an account provided by an In­dependent News Network cor­respondent who attended a lunch at which Reagan spoke, the president expressed confidence in those run­ning the space program and said those aboard were aware ofthe risks they were taking. 
Asked what he would tell the na­tion's schoolchildren, who watched this flight more closely than others because a teacher was aboard and many special projects were planned for them, Reagan said "you have to be out there on the frontier taking risks. Make it plain to them that life must goon." 

Speakes said Vice President George Bush and Reagan's national security adviser, Vice Admiral John Poindexter, interrupted the meeting between Reagan and senior aides to tell him of the explosion. 
The spokesman added that "quite frankly, the president stood there In almost stunned silence as he watched the television." 
Reagan had been scheduled to host a luncheon for television anchors and network White House correspondents in the Roosevelt Room near his office. But the prin­cipal anchors hastily left the White House when they learned what had happened, and Reagan, after first postponing his appearance, can­celied to await further reports, leaving Chief of Staff Donald T. Regan to begin the luncheon meeting late. 
As for the impact ofthe explosion on the future of the space program, including future civilian participa­tion in flights, Speakes said such questions were "premature." 
"I'm sure It will not affect the United States' determination to con­tinue the exploration of space," he added. 

"The United States has met adver­sity many times before in the space program," the spokesman said. 


r----­
r TheObserver Wednesday, january 29, 1986-page 2 
r 
r 



Of Interest 
The Wednesday lunch fast begins today. The 
fast, which had sign-ups last week, will run every Wednesday until 
April 30. The fast is sponsored by the World Hunger Coalition.-The 
Observer 
"The Habit ofBeing" by Flannery O'Conner will be discussed by Ann Kimble Loux of the Saint Mary's English Depart­ment today at 12:15 p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. The discussion is being sponsored by the Center For Spirituality, and is part of the noontime "Spiritual Roots" series that will continue through April 16. -The Observer 
Great Book Discussions will be otfere~ in an 
eleven-week series for adults at the South Bend Public Library on Thursday mornings at 10 beginning january 30. Pre-register by cal­ling the Programming Office at the Library at 282-4606. -The Obser­
ver 
Gain Management Experience and the 
opportunity of an internship abroad at the AlESEC new members meeting. All are welcome to attend the meeting tonight at 7 in 220 Hayes-Healy.-The Observer 
Challenger: What Happened? The Notre 
Dame L-5 Society will meet tonight at 7:30 in 118 Nieuwland to discuss the latest information concerning the disaster of the Chal­lenger. -The Observer 
Knowing your body will be the topic of a discus­sion at 7 p.m. tonight in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge by Dr. Ellyn Stecker. The program is part of an ongoing Sexuality Series being held this semester at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
"Black Women: Achievements Against the Odds," an exhibition on black women and their contributions to American his­tory, culture and society, is being shown through today in the lobby of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. The exhibition, on loan from the Indiana Committee for the Humanities, has been obtained as part of the national celebration of Martin Luther King's birthday and in preparation for the Black Heritage Month in February. -The Observer 
"Prophets, Priests, and Visionaries" will 
be the topic of a lecture given by Ithamar Gruenwald, professor of jewish philosophy at Tel Aviv University. The lecture is scheduled to take place tonight at 8 in the Memorial Library auditorium. -The Observer 
Toastmasters International at Notre Dame will meet tonight at 6 in 223 Hayes-Healy. This meeting was incor­rectly reported as set for yesterday. -The Observer 
All Omicron Delta Epsilon members 
are requested to attend this semester's first monthly meeting tonight at 6:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Topics to be discussed include: curriculum revisions, faculty seminars and the economics newsletter. -The Observer 
"Minority Student Concerns: What Are They 
and Are They Valid?" is the featured topic of "Radio Free Notre Dame," WVFI's general affairs talk program to be broadcast tonight. Special guests will be Beth McCahill, chairperson of the Minority Concerns Commission, and Ed Blackwell, director of minority stu­dent affairs for Notre Dame. join hosts john Rogers and Reginald Daniel at 11 p.m. Listeners may phone in questions and comments at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The NO-Macintosh Users Group will meet 
tonight at 7:30 in 221 Hayes-Healy. Bring S5 for semester dues and a blank disk for digitized pictures. -The Observer 

Weather 
No, it's not cocaine. snow is 
forecast for today, with a total accumulation of 1-2 inches. Highs from 20 to 25. The snow will taper to flurries tonight, with a low of about 5 degrees. Thursday looks to be partly cloudy with highs in the mid-20s ·The Observer 


Design Editor............................... Andy Saal Design Assistant .......... Mark McLaughlin Layout Staff....................... Mary Reynolds Typesetters.. Pat Clark, Suzanne Hammer News Editor....................... Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ................... Mark McLaughlin Sports Copy Editor. Marty Strassen, Larry 
Burke 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .......... Tim Adams VIewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor.................. Ed Nolan Features Layout........................Carey G<:ls ND Day Editor..................... EUen Mastake SMC Day Edltor............................ M.J. SuUy Ad Design...... Fred Nelson and Kimberly Brown Photographer ............................Jim CarroU 
The Observer ( l"SPS ~99 l-~000) is publish"d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation P"riods The Observer is published by the stud.,nts ofthe l 'niversity of Note" l>am" and Saint Mary's College Subscriptions may be purch...,d for 130 P"f year ( SlO P"f sem.,st"r) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notr" l>ame, Indiana 
-lM~6. 
The Observer is a m"mber of The Associated Pn:ss. AU reproduction rights are 
rf!srrved 

ND students make Noise about musical alternatives 
Whoever said Notre Dame was a cultural wasteland? 
The usual musical options offered to the Notre Dame community--the boring, predictable top 40 ofU93 and ZIP-I 04 --are being challenged by a new campus publication which features music most stations refuse to play. The Replacements. Black Flag. Husker Du. The present. 
Noise magazine, the last edition ofwhich was four 8 by 11 sheets with a staple in the corner, is the newest substantive addition to the Notre Dame musical scene since the marching band. It consists ofrecord and con­cert reviews by the most current groups in new music, as well as occasional interviews with whatever jlrtists the editors can contact. 
Currently, Noise is assembled, published and dis­tributed by two student coordinators and about 20 con­tributing writers. Tim Adams, a sophomore from Hinsdale, Illinois, and Pat Beaudine, a senior from Ches­terfield, Missouri, are the two ambitious students who 

Dan 

McCullough 
News Editor 
The content also nas evmvc:u. ror tne nrs. iour issues, the magazine was exclusively album and concert reviews, with an occasional interview thrown in for good measure. 
But last edition featured the top ten albums and singles of the year as chosen by the magazines writers, as well as a short essay on the new music ~ene in St. Louis. 
Future editions will concentrate more upon a more particular type of new music. "You won't see as much 
Thompson Twins or Clash, 
or bands with that level of 
popularity. We want to get

founded and presently more into the underground
publish Noise. scene," said Adams. 
Noise comes out every Noise is not affiliated with
second Friday. The next the University, other than
issue is scheduled to be dis­that it is put out by Notretributed to the dining halls Dame students. Adams saidat lunch on Feb. 7. 
According to Adams, they he doesn't know if anybody started the magazine last under the dome has even November for a number of heard of Noise, let alone 
reasons. "First, we're doing read it. 59mething we like. lfpeople Some of the costs ofprint­are adventurous and they ing and distributing the r~ad an album review of magazine co~e from ad­maybe the new Husker Du vertising revenue. But while 
album, they might go out and pick up the album," he said. 
"It also makes it easier to get bands on campus. Right now ND has a radio station, but it's only AM, which makes it kind of limited. Ifyou can tell a band that you have a magazine too that makes it easier," said Adams. 
"Also, one ofthe reasons Pat wanted to start it was to have a place to publicize some ofthe bands on campus. They really don't have many other places to publicize," he said. 
Every aspect of the magazine seems to be evolving with every issue, including the name. The first issue of the magazine was named jellied Eel. But that didn't go over too well, Adams said. Then, it was changed to Com­munist Rag from Hell, but advertisers were a little wary of paying for space in a magazine with such a radical title. Two issues ago the title was changed to Noise. 

the last issue of Noise con­tained a full page advertise­ment for the upcoming Chuck Mangione concert 
sponsored by the Student Activities Board, it does not yet pay for itself. 
"Printing it costs about S60 for the 300 copies we put out. Last issue we got about 530 to S35 in ads. Pat and I generally chip in the rest," Adams said. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, the Inside Column in Monday's Observer incorrectly stated the reason for the increased budget of the Student Activities Office at 
Notre Dame. There was no increase in the student ac­tivity fee. 


The Observer Wednesday, january 29, 1986-page 3 


McAuliffe's students, colleagues mourn death of 'teacher in space' 
CONCORD, N.H. Within seconds, a party died In silence as hundreds of Christa McAuliffe's friends, students and colleagues watched the shuttle Challenger blast off yesterd::.1 and then explode. 
11J::.'37·year-old teacher's long­a•.lilted launch was watched In clas­
• . srooms throughout Concord High School, where she taught social studies and law and planned to return to teach In the fall, 
About 200 pupils and teachers watching a television set in the auditorium counted down the last 1 0 seconds to launch and cheered wildly as the shuttle's engines blasted the craft toward space. 
Students continued to cheer and blow their party horns for only a few seconds, until someone yelled, "Damn it! there's a major malfunc­tion. Shut up so we can hear." 
Only the sound of NASA reports from the television filled the room as the students and teachers sat stunned, news television cameras fil­ming their shock. 
"It's awful. just too awful even to contemplate," Concord High Prin­cipal Charles Foley said as he fought back tears. "I hope God will be good. I hope he'll be good to all of us." 
Later, Foley said, "We extend our sincere condolences to the McAuliffe family In this terrible hour of tragedy, theirs and ours. We hope people of the world will recognize her as the heroine she is." 
Foley dismissed classes for the day and later canceled Wednesday's ses­sion to allow the staff to meet with school counselors. 
After the explosion, McAuliffe's colleagues stood in shock and stu­dents whispered to each other and 

r---------------------------------------~~ 
Space Shuttle Explodes 
€

10.35m,..mgh-8.06"'"' , downrange from launching pad ­
/~­

~  THE LAST SECONDS  
~ I  MII.....C••uiiiii:O: 10.M7..... n-.man eng~,.. II... .,,.,.,, -..uttott Lillotl of 1M ~ ..,.::e tl'lvtl.. mtMtOn And II hM c..._ IN low.r ___, ...,..........  --~.....,_.... ...: "ooor. .., • ltwo41.. up (I.._...OCCUM)  


.......~C II :w.·.. 
• aMtnute ,,__...,-.cHy aoo twt 
.,... IMICOf'd Ut77 """' ......... I neuUCII m6...(10361MMYMIIRI.... ,..dtllt~ 1 ,.,.w:.l MMill • 011 ...."',. ""'"' 
,,_. •••IOnt .-nee 
........C.....CIPPL III...:PIIOf't c:ontfoHera ......,...,., ~atlhe 
--·--~,.,.., INifuneiJOfl
w. .._. no doMIHnll. tc:orrwnunteat60ft•l 

successful shuttle missions In slightly less than five years. 
Challenger, the second of the agency's four ships to tly, was making its lOth flight, more than any of the other shuttles. Its destruction leaves a fleet of just three shuttles and a program in considerable un­certainty. 
"We've become accustomed to success. It's been an amazing success story so far," said Sen. John Glenn, a former astronaut who was the first American in orbit. 
On a slow-motion video rerun of the explosion, it was difficult to determine the exact source of the explosion. But when the huge fuel tank with nearly 500,000 gallons of volatile propellant ruptured, it un­mistakably tore Challenger into many pieces. 
Half an hour after the explosion, a serpentine trail of white smoke, twisted by the upper wind, remained In the clear sky, marking the path ofthe shuttle's wreckage. 
NASA has rescue plans should a shuttle be forced to land In the ocean, but there are no ejection seats that might propel an astronaut to safety In the event of mid-air dis­aster. 
There were seven crew members aboard, including McAuliffe. 
The other crew members were Commander Francis Scobee, 46; Pilot Michael Smith, 40; Judith Res­nik, 36; Ronald McNair, 35; Ellison Onizuka, 39; and Gregory Jarvis, 41. 


IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! 
Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage 

SPECIAL! Jan. 25 ·Feb. 14, 1986 

~------------------~ 
BED 10 visits $39.00 

NEW! Acu-ma~sage bed 1 visit $4.50 
$3 p~r 15 mmutes BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 Buy 3 VIsits, get one free 1 visit $2.00 

J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609Grape Road Mishawaka 
Queen's Castle & The Knights $5student $8.50 comolet cut style 


MINUTES AWAY.FROM CAMPU~ 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women included tool 

We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minutes ... Not Hours lron"'!ood & St. Road 23 (Across From Martin's) 
1986 

CILA WORKSHOP 
''For Life, not for ,credit, Living as a Catholic." 
An Informal workshop with RAY RUFO on Integrating our faith Into our lives both now and after Notre Dame. 
Saturday, Feb.1 10:00-3:00 PM Includes Mass and lunch sign up at the esc by Thurs. Jan. 30 ALL WELCOMEI 
The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1986-page 4 
Comf2.uler Science Majors 
WE NEED SHARP IDEAS FOR OUR· CUTIING EDGE. 

U 
he Travelers doesn't _ believe in cut­ting corners. 
In fact, when it comes to data process­ing careers, we've got a sharp edge on the competition. Because our ACCENT program is designed specifically tor Computer Science majors. It's a fast-
Now make the right move. To The Travelers ACCENT program. Where you'll find high visibility. Varied learning experi­ences. Career growth potential. And your

Q own IBM PC-to take home with you. As aQ key mernber of a pre­L__----.iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ m i e r fin ancial services 
paced, challenging training program. Offering diverse asignments leading to key management positions. 
All in an advanced environment-the largest IMS shop in the industry. With 19 IBM mainframes. A 23,000 terminal SNA network. 
But, our commitment to DP doesn't stop there. We're gearing up for the future-with the purchase and install a­tion of 12,000 IBM PCs. And, we're look­ing for several enthusiastic people as recruits for our next ACCENT progran1 in our Hartford, Connecticut home office. 
If you have a degree in Computer Science or a related discipline, high academic achievement, exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­gramming experience, you have the right credentials for ACCENT. 
If you're a highly-motivated person, an independent worker, and an innova­tive thinker, you have the right chemistry for ACCENT. 
company, you'll enjoy a competitive salary and complete bene­fits. Plus generous relocation assistance. 
So, bring your talent tq The Travel­ers. Where we put the accent on people. And you get the edge on a successful career. 
Sign up for our campus interview schedule. Recruiters will be on campus Friday, February 14. Or send your resume or letter of interest to: Priscilla Pellett, 30-CR, The Travelers Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183. 
Data Processing For Dedicated People. 

TheTraveler$1' 
The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183. An Equai,Qpportunlty Employer 
The Observer Wednesday, january 29, 1986-page 5 
~,
,
, 
1 
1 


Replace Lost, Damaged, 
or Discolored Lenses at a 
Fraction of their Original 
Cost! 
•Dally Wear Lenses 
•Amsor 
•Amer~can 
Hydron •Aosolt 

•Bausch 
& Lomb •Cibasort •Durasolt 


$41.93 pair 
• Tinted lenses 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Cibasoft Colors 


'63.97 pair 
•ht-.letll WHr len••• 
•AOSoltcon $57/pr 
•Bausch & Lomb $45/pr •CooperV1510n Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $97/pr •Durasolt 3 $57/pr •Genes's 4 $55/pr •Hydrocurve 587/pr 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 
Ir-------------,
o.,, ·----_ 
I D••• Doc1m 1 PLIIU ~nd ,.,, 1 (OP~ ol my'"''' tOll I t:O'liiC.IIInt P•ltc'•PI•O" P•••'• compLetl 
I ~·~ :;,~:~·~~ .. too" •• PQn•tlle fhaM 
I 
:. ----pa;,,n, s.g~ ....,. 
I :·IL  ••~o  ..~.';,:-..  ·-·  
I I  O•-···  ~ -··  01  
I•  
I,  
I,' D•·• ,...,. 

:,,,,.....,.0-· 
IL '*•••S·'i1"'11..11t 
All ll'fllll guJrlnltld Ur~l qulllfy, 1nd 
1re suppl11d 1n the ouginal laclory 1Uit4 VIlli 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 1 Acou~re you1 como•ele conlaclten!:l 
OleSCIIPI•on 2 Como•e!e tne orde• oc•ow 3 Ma~ee cnec~c rnone.,. order or 
como•ele credrl caro rnlormaron pay a­Ole 10 CLS rnc 4 Entlose name addre!Js & phone number wrtn order S Mau a1• rntormdi•On to 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Carter Rd. Cleveland, Ohio 44139 216/248·2416 
··Contact Lens Suppliers tor 25 years ·' Please send pairs at only a pair. UNO 
• Total far ten••• ----~ 
• Shlpping & Handling _z_.o_o_ 
• Total 
I have enclosed total payment in the following manner: 
check money order VISA MaoterCard 
tPersonat Cnecks must be cleared pnor to shtpment) 
............._______ 
............_._______ 
• 
No single lens orders please. 

• 
We will hep all prttcripftons on Wr for reorden. 

• 
90 •. of the lenses ordered are in our inventor' and ready to be shipped in 14 hours. 


.._,_,.._...._...._...._...._..._...._.._.._.._,,__,,_,,_...._.,,_....-.e~...-. 
rHave a nose for news? 
I 
Ifyou do, The Observer 
news department needs 
you. There will be a meet­
ing for new reporters on 
Thursday at 7:30p.m. 
in Room 118 Nieuwland 
Hall. Please attend if you 
are interested in being an 
I 
Observer news reporter 
I this semester. 
I 
IL ~ llteJ:lbsenter I
L_____________________~ 


Dr. To01 Dooley Awareness Week Thursday Jan. 30 at Center for Social Concerns 
4:00 Slide Presentation on Dr. Dooley 
8:00 Talk by Teresa Gallagher personal friend and co-worker of Dr. Dooley 
Come learn more about Dr. Dooley's life and commitment 

others 

Blow Dry with haircut (Iron if needed) THE HAIRSTYLIST 
Exp. May 15 

--------------· 
Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8:30p.m. Saturday 8 a.m.-7:30p.m. Sunday lO a.m.-4 p.m. 
·~-----------------------------------~ 
Keenan Revue party subject to restrictions 
By MARK Dll.LON 
Senior StaffReporter 
Several changes and restrictions will be implemented at this year's Keenan Revue Cast Party, according to Keenan Hall President Bill Boyle. 
Tile party, hosted by Keenan resi­dents, has been an open-house at­tended by as many as 3,000 people in the past. "Tile numbers became unworkable and difficult to con­trol," according to Boyle. '"Student Alfairs found our open-house con· cept totally unacceptable. With over 
3,000 people in the dorm they felt it was unsafe and I agreed," said Boyle. 
After the party last year it was rumored that the event would have to be curtailed, according to Boyle. "Residents wanted the party to be as close to last year's as possible. We thought of having it in the North Dining Hall or at Stepan Center but felt that it should remain in Keenan," Boyle said. 
In order to keep the party in-hall, Boyle met with Keenan Rector Brot­her Bonaventure Scully and other dorm representatives to formulate a party proposal to submit to Student Affairs for approval. Together with Student Alfairs, a set ofguidlines was drawn up for the Keenan Revue Party. 
Scully said, "Tile cast party will be by invitation only instead of open­house. Each Keenan resident will be allowed to invite three guests. lllis will give us a maximum of 1,200 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
doormen and a guest list. He also said that, ifminors were caught at the party, the dorm could lose a hall semi-formal. 
He said he and Lewis Hall Presi­dent Mimi Soule had been working with Goldrick to get permission for these phties. Soule said dorms could not charge for drinks and that 
NOW OPEN! 
The Hairstylists 
University Center-6502 Grape Rd (near ::,c! u ...~ \i.._•._;.....Jise-next to Macri's Deli) 
PHONE 272-0009 NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY 
Precision Haircut Shampoo and 1ilow Dry •..... $8.50 GAL's Haircut shampoo included .............. $6 
with you in mind 
GUY's Haircut shampoo included .............. $6 
personally designed for you 
GUYS AND GALS PERMS ARE OUR SPECIALTY • 
Prices range from $17.50 to $40 All perms included haircut and blow dry styling Highlighting Clairol Tints Retouch Bleach Retouch $15.50 $12.50 $19.50 
people Including the 300 residents 
of the haJI itself." 
To accomplish this Scully said, 

"Each resident will receive a form 1 
with space provided for the names ,
,
of their guests. Tile people appear­ing on these lists will receive written 1
.,
invitations for the party." 
Boyle added,"'lllere will be no al­
cohol served in the basement party 
area and it will be restricted from 
the hallways." 
Security for the party will be handled by Keenan Hall stall and government, said Scully. Resident assistants will be checking invita­tions at the door and also will be patrolling the hallways. Tile Univer­sity has, however, offered access to campus security should the need arise, Scully said. 
Keenan Hall residents have bc:en 
.,
informed of the new party 
guidelines through section leaders 
~ 

and by a letter from hall govern­,ment. 
,
Boyle said,"'We all wanted it to be ,as close to last year's party as pos­,sible. I think this plan is the most ac-. ., ceptable to the majority of the 
1,
dorm." 

, 
Rob McHugh, a sophomore 

1 Keenan resident, agreed with Boyle. 1 He said, "I think It will still be all 1 right but not nearly the same mag­1 nitude as last year." McHugh, 1 however, said he felt that the Invita­1 tion procedure was too selective. He 1 
1
said,"We get four tickets to the show 
1 
so it seems ridiculous to give only 
1
three invitations to the party." 

the expenses of the party had to be ~ split equally between alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. 
In other news, Mike Millen gave a report of the first feedback report conducted by the Progressive Stu­dent Alliance. He said the survey had been distributed too late before finals to get a good response but that the responses he did get were 
v~uable. 
He said another survey would be taken at a more opportune time. 
THE ANSWER IS 
.., I .,. ~ 
vn11 
YOU 
HELP 
SAVE BABIES 


1717 £ Soulh S.no ""'• South S.nd. Indiana .e637 
27H135 


~----------------------------------------~--------­
Accent 
Wednesday, january 29, 1986-page 6 

Students scramble for cash while slinging slop 


ANDREW HUGHES 
features writer 
M 
ost ost every college student scrambles for spending money while away at school. Some Notre Dame students scramble eggs at the North and South dining halls to earn themselves some eggs-tra cash. 
Student dining hall workers cook and senre meals, as well as prepare and clean the eating and serving areas. Students assigned to back rotation "work on the conveyor belt taking paper, glasses and sil­verware off(the trays)," said fresh­man Dave Ragan. 
Ragan cooks breakfast two days a week, unloads the dishwasher once a week and works back rotation, "the most dreaded job ofall," once
r 
r a week. "Slop is the worst job on r the back rotation, that's cleaning r the food off the plates." 
r 
These workers have seen 
r 
everything from soup to nuts on the 
r 
trays as the trays shuffied along the 
r 
conveyor belts. ID cards, letters,
r 
r keys, dental retainers, notebooks and apples carved as jack-o'­lanterns. "I hate the creative things stu­dents do to their trays before they put them on the conveyor belt," said Bridget McGrath, a freshman who serves food at dinner and who works back rotation. Students smear butter all over the trays and put butter slabs under­neath the plates. All agreed that peanut butter in a bowl is the worst to clean off a tray. Sometimes stu­dents will even spell out words with their food. 
Some students try to hide the silverware and the napkins or place as many glasses as possible onto a single tray. 
Brian Peterson, a junior, says the best aspect ofhis job is "the after­noon work where I can do a variety of things, plus it is easy to work around a class scheduel." Peterson makes sure the milk machines are full and unloads the dishwasher at diner time. He is also part ofthe afternoon crew in charge ofdefrost­ing the ice cream freezers and cleaning the soda machines. 
"I like the job," says Ragan. "because ofthe people I meet and interact with, especially when I cook -the guys in the back are really funny." He said he enjoys "the good pay, meeting people, the convienence, the flexibility and great student managers. I must wake up at 6 a.m. to cook breakfast and that the job takes away time from classes and recreation." 
After three years ofworking in the dining hall Peterson said "the monotony ofdoing the same thing over and over within each job," is one ofthe minuses ofthe job. 
joe Schultz, a freshman, says he beleives the $4 per hour wage rate is "very fair." Working a maximum 
over a stack of them when workingof three hours per shift is what he back rotation. I was wheeling themrecognizes as'the job's draw back. 
from the conveyor belt to the dish­He works the afternoon shift in washer when the wheels on the cartback rotation and unloading the locked and the stack tipped over.
dishwasher. 
The manager just shook her head Though a job in the dining hall is mildly annoyed while most of mybasically unexciting, some interest­coworkers and I just laughed. 
ing events do occur. Schultz 
"Another interesting incident," remembers three particular stories. 
said Schultz. "was when a cook took "The incident that sticks out in my 
a pan ofpizzas out ofthe oven and mind is the time I broke about 50 
laid it down on my bare hand. Anot­glasses in 10 seconds by knocking her time I saw a full glass ot water 
to finding treasures 
The Observer/Paul Pahort-•l<:y 
Notebooks pile up in the Lost and Found office waiting to be claimed. 
J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY 
features writer 
B 
oy . , you know, I really do miss that watch that I lost way back in October. It's been a while but I certainly don't want to go out and buy a new one. I wonder if... no ... nobody ever returns things to the Lost and Found. I guess it's gone forever. 
These were my gloomy thoughts until I finally became so frustrated as to actualy check out the Lost and Found. Lo and behold, there was my watch, along with about 10 other watches, stacks and stacks ofbooks, and several boxes ofgloves and hats. 
Other strange articles in the office were: headphones, a diamond, license plate border, contact lense cleaner and an Air Force cover. 
jane Urbanski, who has worked for Notre Dame's Lost and Found for 29 years, was more than happy to return my watch, provided ofcourse that I signed a "yellow card" for it. 
1 
Urbanski mans the Lost and Found daily and among some of the more unusual items that have passed through her office are: an ironing board cover, convertible top cover, along with several kittens and puppies which she cared for until steps could be taken to 
find their owners. She is aided by seniors Bill Byrne and Tony Hackey and freshman Mike Schrimpf, each ofwhom has a regular beat for picking up items at the classroom buildings on campus. Things are collected in these buildings by secretaries and janitors. Many articles are dropped offby students who find them. They are asked to fill out an information card, as many people wish to thank the returners. 
Items are categorized by what they are and when and where they were found. The staff use any and all means possible to return the articles to the rightful owner: names, ID numbers, or phone numbers. Keys can be traced through a locksmith. Rings are traced through initials and the year ofgraduation. Ont> ring was even returned to a Villanova up!>ide down on the convevor and not leaking." 
McGrath said the worst part of the JOb il> the time eaten up in her day when working at the dining hall. The best part ofthe job for her is "the guys who cook, especially (the permanent chefs) George and Tex, who are always friendly. I don't hate the job. I mean it's not the best job in the world, but there are worse jobs." 
Yellow cards key 
graduate visiting his son on Parents' Weekend. Owners are notified by phone or by mail when their belongings are found. 
The most commonly lost articles are notebooks, novels and umbrellas; most being found in O'Shaughnessy Hall or in the Memorial library. Students are not the only ones losing things. Faculty members' portfolios and gradebooks show up every once in a while and staff members looking for lost keys and glasses is a fairly common occurrence. Clothes and books are kept until the end ofthe year. At the end of the year the books are sold to a local merchant and the clothes are donated to a mission. Watches, rings and other jewelry are kept indefinitely. 
The hard-working staffdo their best to return lost articles to the owners. But the real efficiency of the process lies with the mem­bers ofthe Notre Dame community. Things must be turned in and forms must be properly filled out when you have lost something for the Lost and Found to be useful. The staff asks that all students on or off campus put their name in or on everything that may possibly be misplaced. This will enable the office to return the lost items promptly. 
This promptness comes in handy when you need those gloves back in january or that notebook in time for finals. The staff also ask that you are careful to take your things and only your tbtngs out of the classrooms and bookstore. 
The Lost and Found office will be per­manently located on the first floor of LaFortune, just to your right as you walk in the main door, as soon as the final renova­tions are finished in the spring. 
Currently, the office is on the second fioor ofLafortune, next to the International stu­dents office. It is open 9 to 11:45 a.m. and I to 4:45N p.m., five days a week. Ifyou think that the office may have any ofyour belong­ings please stop by or call at 239-5036. 
1'·. terson ~' uu~ tn nt· ~.h :wu w"'· his job, "yeah, 1t gets a little ,,.,, -u~ ~op····t;~ ..., hut o· ··rail it'' 
::• .. ...u ! '"''-'· ll1e dining hall is al­right" a~ a rnl-> 
"Because it's not exactly intellec­tually stimulating," Schultz does not particularly like working in the dining hall. "If! could do something else, such as work off-campus in a store ifI had the time and transportation, I would." 

View~_o_i_n__t________we-dn-es-da-y,J-an-uary-29_,~-98-6-..;;.pa..;.ge-7 Administration has made benefits of ND a reality 
While studying during the Washington grown immensely since having the oppor­Dame community -the Administration. Stu­the University. 
Semester at American University, I encoun­tunity to study at another university. dents contend that the Administration The Administration keeps the school in operation. It is responsible for maintaining
tered an editorial in thc-school newspaper Most important, my appreciation for the imposes too many restrictions on their per­Notre Dame community has increased. The sonal lives. Unfortunately, the negative Notre Dame's tradition and preserving its Cat­
that severely criticiz...""CC Notre Dame. This ar­
ticle attacke<l.>he Administration and its aut­students here at Notre Dame are motivated 
criticism merely severs the relationship bet­holic values. Given these tasks, It Is important horitatiye policies In regard to student living. and conscientious workers who strive for ac­ween the students and the Administration. to appreciate the Administration's overall Unfonunatdy, it exaggerated the situation hievement. These achievements can be seen While I do not entirely agree with the Ad­contribution to Notre Dame. 
and used several falsehoods to illustrate its in the classroom, on the playing field and in ministration's implementation ofits policies, I On a personal level, I am more than willing point. I responded to this article In an attempt the greater community. Given these at­support its intentions behind these policies. to endure the Administration's limitations in to correct its unfounded attack. As order to enjoy a challenging academic en­•~ 
tributes, growth and development result for a Catholic institution,the Administration vironment, a cultivated spiritual life and a fine 
the individual as well as for those around him. strives to promote responsible living in accor­
•
collection of students -all of which NotrePaul Brady The faculty also adds to this growth and dance with its religious beliefs. • 

• ~ 
development with their contributions in the Admittedly, I have been away from the Dame offers. 
classroom as well as their personal care and campus and missed the Administration's latest In closing, I believe the students of Notre 
guest column Dame also recognize the many benefits of •
attention outside the classroom. Yet it is not decisions which have irked the students. For my intent to focus on the students or the this reason, it is not my place to comment on 
Notre Dame; yet it is also important that they Although I do not entirely agree with the faculty. I am confident that the students these events. Upon my return, I have heard recognize that the Administration has made 
i 
Administration's authoritative style, my great these benefits a reality. 
recognize their qualities as well as those ofthe several stories from students with whom I J 
sense of pride compelled me to defend Notre 
faculty. sympathize. Yet, I hope that the students can Dame. As I began to construct my defense, I Paul Brady is a junior government and
Instead, and perhaps more controversial, I move beyond these isolated policies of the 
n:alized my appreciation for Notre Dame had ALPA major at Notre Dame. ~ 
wish to focus on another member ofthe Notre Administration and focus instead on its role in 
• 
urge you to look more closely into this issue. We think you will agree that it is the Campbell's Soup Company that is unfair. 
Patrick Markey Susan Yadlon 
N.D. FLOC Support Group 
Women not ordained out of fear of change 
DearEditor: 
As a young woman in the Catholic Church, I find the recent stand by the synod of bishops on the role of women in the Church to be greatly disturbing. 
The statement that women should continue their "meaningful participation in the Church" is insulting in its ambiguity and emptiness. Women's participation is welcome on councils and at church bake sales, but must end at the seminary. The Church's reluctance to ordain women as priests is rooted not in 
scriptural evidence supporting this view, but rather in the fear of change from the long tradition of male dominance in church affairs. 
But to make the ordination of women an "equal rights" issue would be a mistake, since we are discussing a vocation -a calling from God, not maternity leave. For the Church to ignore this call would be to ignore the equality we all share in God's eyes. Do the Cat­holic bishops really believe that women are not called In the same way as men? jesus chose 

Ito be born a jew, yet to exclude non-jews from full ministry in the Church as priests would be ridiculous. 
It is time that those women who feel they can best serve God and the Church in the priesthood be allowed to do so. 
Brigid M. Murphy LeMansHall 
Quote of the day 
"Because friendship is a communication of love, therefore where love is not mutual, there can be no friendship." 
St. Francis de Sales (1567-1622) "Introduction to the Devout Life" 

P.O. Box Q 
Times at Notre Dame changing for the better 
Dear Editor: 
Times are changing here at Notre Dame. 
Gone forever are the "good ole" days when 
social life revolved around drinking fests in 
dorm party rooms. Yes, times are changing, 
and they are changing for the better. Our new 
social life will be much better. Social events 
will become more creative, more diverse and 
more FUN. Hopefully, alcohol will become 
part of good events, rather than events them­
selves. 
Events such as the junior Class Super Bowl sultca.o;e party, the Around the Corner Club's undergraduate club nights and last semester's Windham llill series signal the beginning of this change. The completion of the LaFortune renovation and the restructuring of Student Government will accelerate this change. Yet, the responsibility to develop this change to its fullest potential lies with us students. It is time to forget yesterday and look toward tomor­
row. 
No longer can we blame "them" (the ad­ministration) or the alcohol policy for killing our social life. As Sarah Hamilton stated in her l.·olumn ofjan. 27, 19H6, it is time to say, "Hey Domers, this your university; this is your life. Takt• it Into your own hands and have fun." 
On the subject of Hamilton's letter, while she is correct in proposing a cure for social life, she is dead wrong, and negligent, in her a.o;sailing ofjoni Neal and the student activities office. It is time for students to realize that Neal, Cell Paulsen, Adele Lanan and Amy Kizer are here to help students, not to hinder them. !laving worked extensively with them this year, I a.~sure you that no one wants or is 
working harder to achieve a better social life 
than these people. 
Many ofthe creative social events that have occurred this year were born in or developed by this office. These four work long hours to help students create a better social life, a fact which Hamilton failed to note. I encourage any students that have serious ideas about changing social life to work with this office. You will find their support and encourage­ment very helpful. Let's all start working together to improve our social life. 
Davidjohnson Dillon Hall 
Campbell's programs are response to boycott Dear Editor: 
In a recent editorial letter on jan. 23, 1986, Bradley johnson, president of the Indiana Federation of College Republicans, criticized the Farm Labor Organizing Committee's boycott of Campbell's Soup. He claimed that Campbell's is being "victimized by FLOC sup­porters ... simply because of its size and recognition." 
We strongly disagree. Campbell's has been boycotted because it exerts inexorable con­trol over the tomato industry. Any change in farm labor treatment will necessarily involve the cooperation of Campbell's. By refusing to voluntarily improve farm working conditions, Campbell's has taught the FLOC that only pressure will bring abnut the institution of such change. 
The boycott has forced Campbell's into defensive action. This action, however, is limited in that it provides only for surface reforms. The reality of daily exploitation 
remains unaltered for the majority of migrant 
laborers. 
johnson praises Campbell's for creating a program designed to provide laborers with adequate housing. The fact is, though, that in the four years since this program was con­ceived, only eight of the 90 Campbell's farmers in Ohio have provided their workers with standard housing conditions. 
johnson also lauds Campbell's provision of day care centers for migrant families' children. Again, he is not fully informed. For the entire Midwest region, only three centers exist. They accomodate no more than 6 per­cent of the 2000 migrant children living in greater Ohio today. Here is yet another ex­ample of the blatant inadequacies in Campbell's "save-face" programs. 
These programs are a direct response to the FLOC boycott's economic pressure; they never existed before the boycott. Clearly, the reforms are an attempt by Campbell's to com­bat the • negative publicity to which the boycott has given rise. We caution both 
Johnson and the Notre Dame student body against being fooled by such insufficient, half­hearted reforms. Only by continuing to exert economic pressure on Campbell's will real comprehensive change in migrant working conditions occur. 
We applaudjohnson's attempt to reveal the other side ofthe issue. However, we question the source on which he bases his arguments. Surely, he must know that the Campbell's Soup public relations department has a vested interested in presenting a rosy picture oftheir company's labor practices. We also question johnson's assertion that the FLOC's attacks on Campbell's are "unfair." The Ohio Catholic Bishops have lent their support to the boycott. Is he saying that they are unfair? We 


Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton
P 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Umversity of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino 
adm1n1strat1on of either 1nst11l•bon. The news IS rep011ed as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Sible. Uns1gned edttonals represent the opin1on of a majooty of the Editooa/ Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .......................... .............. Mary Healy tanes. le«ers and the 11181de Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphyava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opinions on 
Photography Editor .................. ..... Peter C. Laches campus. through le«ers. is encouraged. 
Copy Chief ..................... .................... Philip H. Wotl 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ..................... David Stephenitch Controller....... .......William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager . . . . . . .. . . ... J1m Hagan Advertising Manager.. . ............ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager . . . .............. Mark B. Johnson Production Manager. . ........... John A. Mennen 
Founded November 3, 1966 

---------------------------------------------------------1 
The Observer Wednesday, January 29, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz will be the 
guest speaker at a meeting for all freshmen interested in becoming members ofthe Student Managers Organization. The meetingwill be held tomorrow at the ACC football auditorium (enter Gate 2) at 7 
p.m. All those interested but not able to attend should call the manager's office at 239-6482. -The Obseroer 
The ND water polo team will practice today and every Wednesday from 9-10:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 3588.-The Obseroer 
The ND /.SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting today at 6:30p.m. in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. For more information call Dan Dressel at 288-8410. -The Obseroer 
WVFI Sports,AM-64, will air coverage ofthe NO-Utah bas­ketball game tonight at 7:20. Pete Pranica and Rick Rietbrock will provide the play-by-play. -The Obseroer 
The ND Tae Kwan Do Club will be accepting 
new members until tomorrow. Classes will meet regularly on Tues­days and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. Bring workout clothes for practice. For more information call Kerry at 288-5440.-The Obseroer 
A Shorin-Ryu Karate demonstration will be given on Saturday at 1:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free, and the skills demonstrated will be similar to those taught in the NVA classes on Monday and Wednesday evenings. For more information call NVA. -The Obseroer 
SMC varsity softball players should attend a meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested in playing is welcome. For more information call the Angela Athletic Facility.-The Observer 
Five new NFL Hall inductees 
Associated Press 

CANTON, Ohio -Paul Hornung, whose Golden Boy image was tar· nished in the 1960s when it was dis­closed he had bet on NFL games, finally made it to the Pro Football Hall of Fame on his 15th try. Four­teen times previously, the former Green Bay Packers hahil.lck failed to get enough support for the Hii!l. 
But yesterday, when the results of this year's voting were announced, the votes were there, and Hornung was elected with four other former National Football League greats: quarterback Fran Tarkenton, hallback Doak Walker and defensive standouts Willie Lanier and Ken Houston. 
Tht• Ohsprr·~r ~otn· lldmt' otfit·t.·. lot.dtt.·d on tht· third floor of l.af-ortunt.· 
Stud<:nt <.<·nt<·r. acn·pt' ,·la"tfkd ad\'l'rl"in~ from') am unttl • p nt ..\fonda\ 
throu~h Fnda\ 7bt• Ohsi'T't'<'r Samt \lary·, offi<T. hll'at<·d on th<· th~rd floor of 
llaAAar <:ollr~<· <<"ntl'f. J<T<'PI' da"itkd' from 12 .~0 p m unttl ~ p m. \Ion· 
da,· thou!(h fnda\ l><·adhn<· I< If m·xt·dJ\ ,·la'"lkd' b .~ p m..-\11 da"ifkd> 
mu>tlll' pr<:patd. t'llhl'f 111 p<·r-on or h\ matI. ( .har~<· ;, I 0 n·nt• prr fh ,. ··haral'·
Classifieds 
t<·r. rr da\'. 
lEU lUDDY 

LOST Someone mialllklngly tool< my H..-d Hell H81ancl Tta P8rty
Puffy: HAVE A NICE DAY 
GREEN OLIVE JACKET from Senior Ber Saturdlly, 9 p.m. 
Can I say it enough . . thank you ! 
NOTICES Coat Rel<e Saturdlly night, Jenuery 25. TICKETS Buses leave main circle and Holy Crou
T.B. 

Greet 18ntimenllll v.rue, PLEASE return, (SMC) every 15 minutes 
Vicki -do you know what you are getting

no questiona ul<ed. Call nm Beker 2004, Tickets IOid at the door
into this S.turdlly night? Do you remem· 

417 Slllnford Hall Who says there ·a nothing to do in
HOLY CROSS AS­ber that we have a dille? I cannot express 
February?

Typing Avallele SOCIATES ... ACCEPT THE CHAL­how disappointed I am about my dllnce 287-4082 I need 2 buketbllll tickets, either GA or LENGE! being switched. but I'm flexible! I'm student, for either the Marquette game on One year p011tgraduate work. Develop looking forward to going to dinner off· 
HAPPY 8-0AY CHilli BALLAS
Feb. I or the Dayton game on March 8. your faith and discern your priorities. AP­campus and then maybe !liking in aome $10.$360 Weeldy/Up Malting Circulars! LOST: A thick, chaln.finked gold bracelet Cal Mike at 283-1643. 
YOU'RE TOPS!!I

PLICATION DEADLINE: This Fridlly entertainment in beautiful South Bend. 
LOVE FISHII FRIENDS 
with a large clup. It wu lOIII Fri., Jan. Sincerely intereeted rulh 11811-~eeaed 17th. It hu incredible untimental value And remember alway. that good frienda Noquotu! (31st) Mary Roemer 7949. We are going to have fun so get peyched! 
and cannot be replaced. If you have any NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX. CALL DAVE envelope: Succaa, POBox 470COO, OAfl HOUlE: COLD BEER & UQUOfl. are hard to come by,but when one does, it 
information, pleue call Karen at 1884. 
Thank You. 

Woodatocl<, IL 60098. CAJIIRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.l. 31 N., 1 is very special!! Know that my door is al­
1059. 

BLOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. way. open if you want a friend. 
D. Fid---, Tooloe, Kerater, Megan, and 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. ....................
YES, I have $$$ and, YES, I am Kimba (What t can't fit 6 letters in this
$16,040-$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. L011t: pair of light orange rim glaaa. In a HOOP HYSTEIIIA T-IHIRT11 Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at
desperately Heking up to 4 (four) tickets smau ad !!). Fn·ends are people who
Celt 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 lor cur­maroon cue. if found call Erin 284-5276 Suppori Logan Center and the basketball 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am
to the Marquette game!!! Call me so my come in when the whole world hu gone
rent lecler.t list. team! Monday-Thursday: 5pm-2am Fridlly:
frienda don't have to liaten to the game on out! (or when you fall off a bua and breek 
Long and short alevee 3pm·tam Saturday: 4pm-10pm Sunday 
the radio. GREG· 4186, THAT'S GREG your ankle) 
TYPING Stop by Room 221 Stllnford
-4186 THANK YOU AU FOR ALl OF THE
CALl CHillS or call 2089/2078 for delivery SOPHOMORESIII DON'T MISS
FOUND: Men's Wristwatch· Call Tom 
RANDOM HELP YOU HAVE GIVEN ME 234-1117. Beatty at 2308 after 10 pm to identify. TUBING AT BENDIX WOODS THIS 
I
THUR. JAN 30 FROM 6-11 PM COST $5. 
I Love You All, Julea

Attention: ltuclenla LOST: MUL TICOLOREO WOOLEN OESPERATEL Y SEEKING 1 MAR­SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­SIGN UPS IN CLASS OFFICE. BUS Doi«MFI'IIFICia SCARF OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL QUETTE BASKETBALL TICKET. plicetiona deedfine 11 February 3. More LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE AT 6PM. 
Around the Corner Club invitee ALL STU· Typlnt ..,Ice PLEASE CALL RAOUEL AT 2907 info at Center for Social Concern1. 
VALUE MAYBE AT NO/SO DINING DENTS to the Alumni-Senior Club on
hu a ph-change HALL. REWARD. CALL MARY AT 2206 DAVE FLANAGAN Saturdlly night to enjoy the IOUnda of
I NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR MARYLAND
277-1131 FOfiUIIOC 
WORD OF MOUTH!!!!!

GAME. CALL 2842. 
Chicago-Grand Beach Roadtrippers.
IUIINEII EXPREII,INC. NEED 2-4 Marquette GA's; CALL JIM at Life is really wonderful. The 10th Annual KEENAN REVUE Be 
Let's make it by communion-oopa we
2397:$$$ -Kolaki
Wonlpr-'ntend typlnt There! February 6,7,8 
L08T puaed Cicero-Grand Prix TIMSTER
1/21/86ONE PAtll OF PREICIIPTION ·moreluagna JOE-Muldoon'a, Mother'a, 
272-1127 
Need 2 GA'a for Marquette. Call Tom at To all the Eut Cout fa,. and anti·
GL.AIIEI MILK'S got more-RIP you're gonna breek 
1906. Chicago sports fan1 who were praying
I wu riding In the ~~ of your blue something-MIKE try the plpea again, we
"We Can Mal<e You Laugh" on Febuary 8 
TYPING IY IALLY that the Bears would lose, we eay "Maybe 
2-door at 10:30 am on Mondlly the 27th. can't wait much longer-o vialbilty-do you 
I t 272-7573. I DESPERATELY need 1 or2atud. tickets if not YOU win $25 next year!" You drove me down NO Ave and let me off know what we're eaying JEFF, we thinkfor Marquette/NO 8-bell game-very wi~ at the circle.lleft my gluleein your back· you do. Thanka for a greet time. Love US. ling to pay good $$1! PLEASE call 4884 Lool<ing for Somewhere to Relax? Anantlon lllllaci-W cap-'n on a.tur­-t. If you find them can you bring them ASAPI! Comejoinusat to T ex at the South Dining Hal. COUNTDOWN TO ROBIN·FEST 1986 
._ .....,_ wanted for cempua blind day nlghlllln •cNCtlon: You're doing 
THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT NEEDED: TWO MARQUETTE GA'S featuring 'New Age Moth1101 and the with horn 18Clion. Bend reedy to pley a greet job. Keep up the good work. 
FEB. SIS THE DAY veriely ofct:Ner mulic,origonell ~-Yourlldmlrwa

LOST'()( stolen. NO jaci<et at OC pwty, SENIOR BAR IS THE PLACE 
WIU PAY$$$$$$ DAVE 217·9026 American Dream' 
~ cell BRIAN 2258 Marl<a St. II found, call Brian at 283-2365. Sponaored by the committee to get Robin
Tuee. Jan28 
~ Tanke truhed on her 21st 
A LIBYAN DEATH SQUAD WIU HIT ~It pm Cameleon Room HCC Dear Gary--Happy 20th, Love eHk--Hope TYPING • Plci<-up & delivery on cempus. SOUTH BEND UNLESS I CAN GET 1 Lots of Free Food! the posters didn't embarrus your BARil va. MtKEY Feb. I. 
Wll check spelling. au.tlty guarenteed by STUD. TKT. TO THE MARQ. GAME. 
a proleuionef. SUSAN-287-9257 FOR RENT All ND W~ II. Gamino Ia 20 
! L t CALL CHRIS AT 4478 TO SAVE OUR FAIR CITY!! "Toast To The New Year" today! Call1101 aratopllyi11Fllln­Jan 31 9:30-tam and gtva him your llaati-Juat MY your SPEND IUMMER AND/OR 1..S7
HCCSMC from lha OFFICE OF ITUD£NT AF­
TYPING Term pepen, .-.-. 111-Semi-furnished houl8 In good neighbor· Food, Favora and Countdown ICHOOL YEAJII IN lUNNY SPAIN.
FAtllllll

hood 255-3684/277-3604 Quellty lnatructlon at Economy Prl-:
-.. IlPPI-'-· 11-DIIIIMe -; OJ and Dancing ..,.._ Admlnlatretlan, Hlapentcpickup a cMIIvery on -..... NEED 2-4 Marquette GA's; call Eric at Informal $1 
Doyouhavaa~lar.-?

N.D. Ave. Apt for rent 1161. THANKS 
.,........ Cell Celhy lch® ----If intereeled calf EVERYONE WELCOME!! If you do, the Obl8rver newa department ltucllaa, Alta and ~­
GRADUATE CQUIIIEI IN HISPANIC1>-10 p.m. 277·5134. Shirley at 234-664 7 needs you. There wilt be a new reporter
FREE SEX is out of the question, but I'M ITUDIEI OFFERED IN JULY. COM­
meeting Thursday at 7:30 p.m. In Room

LARGE FOUR-BEDROOM HOME WIU offer anything elM for four tickelll to the SMC SEXUALITY EDUCATION SERIES TACT: Admlaat-. lt. Louie Unlv•
118 Nieuwland Hal. Anyone intereeted in 

ACCOMMODATE FIVE STUDENTS. MARQUETIE &-BALL GAME. Catl2169 ally, 221 N. Gtanclllvd. IL Loula, 110
"KNOW YOUR BODY: THE INSIDE coverage of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
COMPLETELY FURNISHED. if you cen help out. 1:1103. ToD-Iraa tal: (100)325-1114111.
Tha Notre O.me MeclntDih u_. STORY WHERE THINGS ARE AND is invited to attend this important informa· 
Group wiN meet tonight at,7:30 in room HOW THINGS WORK" OR. EUYN tiona! meeting. 
Campus View Apt.!!!!! Rent· $100.00, NEED MAROUETIE TX BOB 1751 SPECIAL OLYMPICS VOL.S: meeting
221 Hay-Healy. Peopleshouldbring$5 STECKER M.D. 7pm JAN. 29th 
Female-nonsmoker pref. Call EUen 1312. 7:00, 1/30 Utile Theatre. Erik 1623 
for 1181T188ter dues and a btenk disk for STAPLETON LOUNGE, LEMANS HALL Me thinketh that Grace H-'1 is packed to
Need 8 txl for Marquette b-bal game. Call
dgitized picturee. the rafters with men who enjoy tormenting GAMS: IT'S ABOUT TIME FOR ANOT·284-4052 THANK YOU JESUS AND ST. JUDE. 
helpless women! 

HER OBSERVER PERSONAL AGAIN . 
JB

................................................... I WANTED PEG·REG ME TO
MAKES WANT HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND 
COUGH UP CAT BAUS, BUT WAITING TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT
NEED MARQUETIE TtCKETII!I 
FOR JPW AT THE MORRIS IS BETTER AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE
Student tix or G.A.a 
THAN BUTIER ON MY NOSE. LOVE.
Call Sheila at 272-t068 
HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND

LOST/FOUND I w~~i;;;i: ..ai;;..·F~d~y ...;;;;rt...ii;;;;;..·i• 
MAIKU. 

Wanted: The chic who belted Ed G. of TIEresearch secretary Call 233-3432 Keenan to teach a Hand to Hand Combat Howard Hal preeenta ·IRISH GARDENS-IRISH GARDENS­LOST: Gold hemngbone bracelet with tri Claaa to the Marine ROTC. the annual IRISH GARDENS-Are you interested in 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR MAROUETIE CALL
color gold rose attached. REWARD!!!!! Hat and Tta P8rty wortung this semester and next year? IfBIU AT 288-5442 
call JIICkie al2286. Saturdlly Night you are on financial aid and are interetted 
Tout comprendre, c'est tout pardonner. Who says there ·a nothing to do in 
in worl<ing at THE IRISH GARDENS,MALE GUITARNOCALIST LOOKING BROTHER COMING NEED MAR·
LOST:BACKPACK February? 
pi-come by and picl< up an applica·FOR ANOTHER TO GET TOGETHER QUETIE T!X CALL ANNE 3724 
LOlli Tuee.21(dinner) a blue Notre Dame HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND tion (basement of LaFortune). TheyAND PLAY LOCAL COFFEE HOUSES 
AND BARS. ENJOY E.LISTENING, Need 2GA tix for Marquette call Chrisbacl<pack. Contents vital. Need IDa ur­The SAB announces the rebirth of Rock TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE MUSTbeinby FRIDAY. JAN. 31 at 5:30-­gently. R-ard offered. If found pi­duLac:
COUNTRY AND SOME POP ROCK. 2467 No purchase necessary and NO LATEA!!
call Anilllat 234-8002. It's bigger! It's better! 
CALLANYTIMEANOLV MSG. 233-6692 
You can evan welkIn I THANK YOU ST. JUDE LOlli: green aptral notebook in Car-and It's The Cellar!
TOP DOLLAR lor 2 Dayton GAs on March 
8. Call John 2180 
Placement office on Tuea dlly. I know it's Discount Records, Tapes, and a whole lot Have you ever played Adventure? What To Don. our 2.0 ME buddy for life, you
WANTED

atiN early. but there were some important morel do you do in the aheU room? HELP! Call missed a great breakfut! ·E. and R. P.S. notee that I'd hate to lose. If you picl<ed it LaFortune Basement 1401 Once we get automotive experience, can
Inexpensive electric typewriter in running 
condition. Call 23~5604 and aak for 
Betty. Thanka. 
up by mistake. pteue call me at 3564. we have jobs 7 
Thanka. Jt's s thousand rlliny days since we firat
PERSONALS 
The Caller met. SUSAN AND STEPHANIE!!! WELCOME Ride needed to Wabuh College Over ISO titles In atocl< including new al­It's a big enough umbrella, butit's always TO 5th FLOOR REGINA NORTH!II luv,(Crawfordsville, IN) 
bums by me that ends up getting wet. mj LOST: Black & White woven ocarf. On it is or Purdue Univeraity. Isn't ii ;~~~;;~: ..ih~ ~~y ..~~rt~~~ ';;i. 
The Alarm a iitlj lltatir.gtt waa made in Ireland. Call ways comes before shattering•? TheCiuh ANN-YOUR SECRETS ARE SAFE 
Weekend of Feb.14-16 Wil share coats. Cindy 2687 

nmat 1214. Arcedia Imagine that -pretending to be uleep to 
-Richard Bach. Echo and the Bunnymen fake out an alarm clock. Oh you nutty ATIENTION MR. OM·KNOWLEDGE! If you accidentally took my long, black, Tha Bridge Acr.,.. Fonver Scritti Politti people. Alias Blank Clayton Hamlin, Been to Utah wool coat on Sat. mglll at the O.C. party and even Barbara Streiaand! lately? How are the alopet? Or better yet, 
Ride needed: CLEVELAND JAN. 31 Call 
Peggy 284·5204. 
on Marx, could you pteue return It? I am UnUI you have determined what the client the hiking? SHARK! Thanka, Sr. Barbara' 
freezing! The tic taca are yours but I really Two artists met one time within a little Most single albums only $6.98 really wishes to buy, you can't be aure of I reiterated first. Watch out NO, we're on a Need riders to Loraa College. Leeving 1·
need my 1.0. and coat bllcl<! 3738 wood. Each brought his finest painting Only at The Catlar whar you should sell. mission! Yes. that's right and we can 31, returning 2-2. Cal Denny at 1787. 
stroked by his complete uniqueness. LaFortune basement show you how we know it's true. UTE cab When each revealed hia canvu to the ot­LOU HOLTZ isn't going but there are still in the desert. You're just the greatest! You 
YOU'RE PROBASL Y IRISH her· they were Identical. spots open for the SENIOR CLASS SKI are "AMERICA'S BEST DRESSED if you tool< the I nih flag hanging oulllde o1 So once in every IOiar system there are OMICRON DELTA EPSILON TRIP at Boyne Mt. Any Seniors in­HERO!" RUBBER DUCKIE ... The word is 422 Watlh late Friday night. So il ita two fingerprints -'ike. First monthly meeting Wedneadav terested, call Doug at 2n-t067 out. Sandra (martyr) Alice is the victor, so
FOR SALE 

owner, and it meen1 a lot to her. For But only once. Jan.29 you can put away your SAB card ceuae 
Pete's lake (or P~'a) pleae return at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns I wonder. Even in the real world, as I'm not'buying that stuff any more! Thanka this aouvenir of greet llmea in Ireland to • Calvin Miller, opposed to now. even when things make 
Topics to be discussed include curriculum for the m0111 mentally agonizing weel<end l·WAY PLANE TICKET. S.B. TO D.C.
413 or 422 Walah: no questions will be The Singer revisions, faculty aemmar, and sense. they realty don't make senu. Do ol my life! That's it! I quit! I won't say anyth· asked. FEB. 6. $60. 272·3530. economics newsletter. they? ing for the rest of the time! 
The Observer Wednesday,January 29, 1986-page 9 
-· . 


Q @ 
NBA 
~.... Cont........ Altllntlc lllvfelon 
w L  Pet.  o•  
&o.lon  33 8  .805  
Phl*lelphia  30 15  .667  5  
NewJeraay  27 20  .574  9  
Wuh~'9<>"  23 21  .523  11.5  
Nf!•;.(York  16 29  .356  19  
cantn1 Dlvllllon  
Milwaukee  31 16  .660  
Allanta  25 18  .561  4  
DetrOit  22 23  .489  8  
Cleveland  18 27  .400  12  
Chicago  16 30  .348  14.5  
Indiana  12 32  .273  17.5  
w-..Cont......,.  
llldwee1 Dlvlalon w L  Pet.  o•  
Houlton  31 14  .889  
Oenvw  26 20  .565  5.5  
San Antonio Dallaa  24 22 21 21  .522...  7.5...  
Ulltl  22 25  .4118  10  
Saaamento  18 28  .391  13.5  
Pacific lllvlalon  
L.A.l..alo.IR  33 10  .767  
Pontand  28 21  .571  8  
L.A. Cllppen  18 29  .383  17  
Phoenix  16 27  .372  17  
Seattle  16 29  .356  18  
Golden St.  14 35  .286  22  
L.-1Nitht'a.._....  

New YOI'Ic 118, Chicago 111 Atlanta 123. Indiana 92 Houaton 116, Cleveland 109 Phoenix 136, Portland 130 L.A.l..alo.... 125, Mllwaukee115 New Jwaay 117. Golden 81. 113 Sacramento 125. OenvO< 120 Philadelphia 106, S..llle 97 
SPORTS WEDNESDAY @ 8 

News Item: Though he is only averaging 14.2 minutes per game, Manute Dol ranks third in the NBA among shot blockers. 
-
Notre Dame Women's Basketball Statistics through 1/26/86 
TOP20 

Won 10, Lost 6 
APTopT-, 
The Top Twenty co1ege bul<elballteama In The Auoclated Pnaaa pol, with flrat-plaoe vot•ln parenth-. thla -.,n'a recorda and total pointa. Pointa beaed on :Z0.19-18­
t7 etc. Notre Dame opponenta •e

Pl•yer G/GS MIN/AVG FG/FGA PCT FT/FTA PCT REB/AVG PF/FO AST BK ST PTS AVG 
lt.llclzed. 

Keys 16/16 487/ 30.4 128/ 248 .516 54/ 75 .720 110/6.9 34/0 28 17 29 310 19.4 Botham 16/12 343/ 21.4 75/ 135 .556 46/ 59 .780 119n.4 49/ 3 17 7 11 196 12.2 Ebben 16/15 483/ 30.2 52/ 125 .416 32/ 38 .842 65/4.1 43/ 1 44 9 25 136 8.5 
t. No. c.olina (63) 21-D 12110 

2. Memphla 81. 20-D 1171 Brommeland 15/ 4 237/ 15.8 42/ 83 .506 2/ 3 .667 44/2.9 17/0 8 5 3 86 5.7 
Willis 15/10 351/ 23.4 30/ 66 .455 29/ 37 .784 62/4.1 49/ 3 5 1 10 89 5.9 
3. GeorgiaTech 16-2 1061 4. Kaneaa 111-2 1068

Gavin 16/16 479/ 29.9 28/ 63 .444 22/ 37 .595 48/3.0 42/ 2 93 3 24 78 4.9 
5. Duke 18-2 1018

Bunek 8/ 3 151/ 18.9 32/ 52 .615 10/ 14 .714 32/4.0 16/ 0 7 4 2 74 9.2 
6. Otdahoma 18-1 900 Toney 16/ 0 '282/ 17.6 22/ 64 .344 13/ 26 .500 39/2.4 38/2 23 10 16 57 3.6 
7. St.John'a 19-2 885 8. Kentucky 16-2 747

Kuhns 12/ 0 118/ 9.8 13/ 37 .351 9/ 11 .818 13/1.1 7/ 0 11 0 4 35 2.9 
9. Michigan 17-2 740

Momson 8/ 1 96/ 12.0 13/ 27 .481 5/ 13 .385 24/3.0 18/ 0 2 7 1 31 3.9 
10. UNLV 19-2 721 11. S)"'lcuae 15-2 708 12. Geor;etown 16-3 567 

Barron 12/ 3 114/ 9.5 9/ 21 .429 2/ 2 1.000 18/1.5 6/ 0 5 0 11 20 1.7 
Basford 8/ 0 59/ 7.4 4/ 15 .267 0/ 1 0.000 10/1.3 12/ 0 5 0 3 8 1.0 
13. Bradley 2().1 456

Team Rebounds 
61/3.8 
14. Notre O.me 124 111 15. Indiana 13-4 249 16. VlfVInla Tech 16-4 227 17. LSU 16-3 224 

Notre Dame 16 3200/200.0 448/ 936 .479 224/316 .709 • 645/40.3 331/ 11 248 63 139 1120 70.0 
Opponents 16 3200/200.0 363/ 949 .383 235/376 .625 • 577/36.1 300/ 11 157 26 150 961 60.1 
18. LoulaviNe 11-6 222 19. UTEP 17-3 209

• Deadball rebounds are not included in totals: Notre Dame 37, Opponents 48 
20. Richmond 16-2 116 


THE LIST
NHL 
PRINCE OF WALH CONFE..ENCE 
THE BIG MAN'S DEBUT 

Adama lllvlalon W L T OF GAPia. Montreal 28 17 5 223 171 61 
First game ofeight NBA centers 

Oull>ec 28 18 3 205 188 59 &.ton 24 18 7 196 176 55 Hartford 28 21 1 ·202 180 53 Bu"alo 22 22 5 182 173 49 
P.trtcll Dlvllllon 
1. Wilt Chamberlain ( 1959) Wuhlngton 29 15 4 193 166 62 
Phl*!eiphla 35 14 1 217 149 71 
--43 points, 28 rebounds

N. Y illlandera 22 17 10 203 178 54 PlltabufVh 22 22 6 191 184 50 NY. Rangera 22 23 4 171 170 48 
2. Lew Alcindor ( 1969) 

NewJeraay 15 31 2 180 232 32 
--29 points, 12 rebounds CLA"ENCE CAIII~ELL CONFE..ENCE lmythe Dvlalon 
3. Akeem Olajuwon ( 1984)

W L T OF GA Pta Edmonton 35 11 4 263 202 74 
--24 points, 9 rebounds 

Calgary 23 21 4 206 186 50 loaAngeiH 15 27 6 174 236 36 Vanoouvw 15 27 6 173 201 36 
4. Bill Walton(1974) Wln,.p.g 15 31 5 181 237 35 
--18 points, 24 rebounds

Noma Dlvtalon Ollcago 23 19 7 218 214 53 
5. Ralph Sampson ( 1983) Mlnneaota 19 22 8 196 190 46 Toronto t2 31 5 182 239 29 
81. Louie 20 20 6 174 182 46 
--18 points, 12 rebounds 

Oatrolt 11 34 5 170 266 27 
6. Patrick Ewing ( 1985)

L.-1Nithl'a.....,n. 
--18 points, 6 rebounds 

Phl*leiphla 2, Plltabufllh 2 Detrolt7 Wuh•ngton 0 
7. Bill Rut~KII ( 1956)

N.Y.talendara9, Toronto2 
--16 points, 6 rebounds

T~·•O.... 
Holtzapbobia: 
&.ton at Har11ord 
8. Willis Rec:d ( 1964)

Oulbec at Montreal P11tabufVh at New Jeraey 
--I 5 points, 11 rebounds

Football players' fear of missing a 6:00 a.m. Monday 
Waahlnglon at Toronto Edmonton at 81. Louie Buftalo at WlnniP-u 
winter workout. 
N.Y. Rangera at Chicago Mlnneaota at Loa AngeiH Celgary 11 Vancouver 
Source: Tbe PbllmJelpbio Enquirer 

The Observer Wednesday,january 29, 1986-page 10 
Senior defensive standout 
Veteran Ebben leads by example 
SMC fencing now 3-3 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI 
Sports Writer 
When the Notre Dame women's 
basketball team looks for ex­
perience and concentrates on the 
fundamentals of defense, it follows 
the example of senior co-captain 
Lynn Ebben, who has seen a wide 
gamut ofgame situations. 
"Ebben is the hardest working player I have ever coached," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "She is a defensive player, but she is creating a whole lot more than before -offensively with her ballhan­dling. She is a smart player who draws most of the tough defensive assignments." 
Ebben's family has intluenced her throughout her basketball career. Her father was an All-American bas­ketball player at Iktroit and later wen1 on to play with the NBA's Detroit Pi!ltons. She also has three younger brothers with whom she practiced. 
"My brother and I would play 2­on-1 against Dad, and we watched him referee games," says the 6-0 Eb­ben. "I've played organized ball since fourth grade and really con­centrated my efforts on basketball during high school. I played with the guys. during the off-season, and I still practice with the boy's high school team while at home." 
Ebben, a native of Mendham, N.J., cites her most valuable experience as her involvement in a summer league in Harlem a few seasons ago. 
"It was incredible," she recalls. "The: intense style (and calibre) of play was excellent. 
"International, professional, and top collegiate players all faced off. The neighborhood people and kids would surround the outside courts player, but I have learned things from my experience." 
Against Rutgers, Ebben contained the Lady Knights' superb 6-3 for­ward, Sue Wicks. 
"I stayed one step ahead ofher on her inside moves, and tried to be as big as I could," she says. "I anticipate moves in order to never lose sight of my man." 

Lynn Ebben 
Ebben believes that consistency is the main concern for the Irish in the NSCrace. 
"The team is coming together game after game," she says. "The younger players now have more ex­perience and are comfortable with their positions (and the college en­vironment.) Our confidence level is up." 
Among key players for the Irish, Ebben pointed out that the team is very deep in talent. 
"(Sophomore center) Sandy Bot­ham must continue to be a consis­tent offensive and defensive threat, while (freshman) Heidi Bunek will give us more inside power to relieve Sandy," says Ebben. 
"(Senior) Trena Keys' mere presence on the floor affects teams, since they will either leave her open 

wanted to see you play, so it was a very realistic, organized game situa­tion." 
"Lynn is a good leader and listener who can read game situations well," says DiStanislao of Ebben's role as co-captain. "It is good for the younger players to see her work so hard at practice. She's very tuned in to her teammates and very sup­portive." 
Ebben has her own philosophy on the game. 
"I want to show (my teammates) what we do at Notre Dame," she ex­plains. "I want our opponents to say 'I have never seen a team that worked so long and hard at defense.' I never want us to be out­rebounded, or to turnover the ball in the double digits. 
"We strive to have a disciplined team willing to take advantage ofthe fast break transition game. We want depth, in order to substitute players in a game with no lull in intensity." 
As for team goals, Ebben said that the season is made ofplateaus. 
"We have final goals in mind, but those are assessed after the regular season. Right now (on a game-by­gante basis), we want to win our remaining North Star Conference games, and we have a very good chance to do it with our talent. 
"Individually, I take pride in my defense. I may not be the quickest 
New NVA policy 
The Non-Varsity Athletics has put into effect a new policy regarding how elimination tournaments will be run. Each player (or team) is responsible for calling NVA for op­ponents and dates of matches. NVA will no longer be calling par­ticipants. 
In addition, players are respon­sible for submitting results within 24 hours ofa match or deadline. For­feits will be declared for failure to call for a first match, failure to report 
scores  immediately  following  a  
match,  and  failure  to  play  at  a  
scheduled time.  


STUD€1\JT GOV€RNmenrr OtPICeS 
Wed., January 29 4 -6pm 
2• FLOOR  LaFortune  
QuESTIONS  ANswERED  Bv:  
STUDENT  BCDY  PRESll>ENT  

STUDENT BODY Vl(f PRESIDENT STV DENT BC DY TR EASL'E R STvDENr SE"ATORS HALL PRESIDENr~ ~CLI\C ll Ct1AIRr-1AN J l.' DI ( I A L C0 C ~ t> I N A i OR 0M8lDSMAN AD 'w'O R K S P f ~ S C· N N E L 
11-'/t..~.....ltk ~ All THOSE INTERESTED IN 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ARE INVITED 

MARCH 
CONDO OR HOTEL ~ODGING PARTIES I GOODIE BAGS I MORE! 
OFFICIAL BEACH TRIPS 
USA & HAWAII 
1-8oo-a21·5911 ,. se" 
COLORADO -oe ,'f>~ 
1·800·321·5912 •"'~ 
or contact a local Sunchase representative or your local travel agency TODAY! 

to score, or cover her and leave gaping holes for others like (freshman guard) Mary Gavin.'' 
Notre Dame's next test will be on the road at Butler today. 
"It's always tough on the road," says Ebben. "Teams always want to beat Notre Dame because it is their big game. 
"Often we play against people who were recruited by Notre Dame, players who we hosted during visits. That always adds an interesting twist. I love to beat people on the road.'' 
"Butler's record ( 2-12) doesn't mean a thing when you go down there to play," says DiStanislao. "We expect a very tough game and we will have to crash the boards and get great execution in our offense to win. 
"Winning on the road is very im­portant in the NSC this season and this will be our first test. They are depleted in the front line because of injuries, but they are aggressive with more young talent this year. 
"We cannot concentrate on any one player because they have an equal opportunity offense with seven players in the 7-9 point range," explains the Irish coach. "Our teamwork will be the dif­ference for the rest of the season, with every player making the con­tribution that she can." 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's fencing team traveled to Chicago on Saturday, winning two matches and losing one. 
The Belles, now 3-3, beat the University of Chicago, 13-3, and defeated the University of Michigan-Dearborn, 9-7, but lost to the University ofWisconsin-Madison by a score of 14-2. 
Coach Mike Weeks was pleased with the Belles' perfoi'!!'ance. 

"Considering the health of the whole team, I thought we tea<;ed weU," Weeks says. "All I heard was coughing and sneezing on the way to Chicago, but we matched up pretty well with the other teams.'' 
Weeks was particularly impressed with the improvement of senior fencers Mary Beth Proost and Ann Raney. Proost, the team captain, went 7-4 at the meet, bringing her overall record to 11-1 1. Raney, who posted a 7-5 record, now stands at 12-1 0 for the season. 
Mary Francis Wilkin, who is currently in her fourth season offen­cing for the team, improved her overall record to 5-3 at the meet, winning two bouts and losing one. 
Senior Becca Barnett went 7-5, and Laura Harris, a returning var­sity letter-winner, went 3-7. 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL THE CLASSES 
------~~-­
~4CJtc:IC3l~--------------------------------------w--e.d.ne.s.d.ay•'•Janu_~._2_9_,_1_9_8_6_-_p_ag•e-1
..1 


The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 1·2" 
Kevin Walsh 
80'(, TH" J09 I:JN 'r S'O 
~. tMA6tNElW"r, IM GeTTIN&~OGCdJ~ 
JIJSr ro PICK UP A FEW••• 


Zeto 
ACROSS 1 A sense of the 
appropriate 5 Tie 9 Latvian city 
13 "Forwant 
of-..." 15 Asian desert 16 Jap. box 17 Bellini opera 18 Kind of town 19 Norsegod 20 Ore of lead 22 Maintain 
tempo .:!4 Singing syllables 26 Sound of 
fright 27 Progress 31 Atmosphere: 
pre!. 32 Originate 33 Ripening 
factors 35 Maleswan 38 Magnifier 39 Fatigued 40 Bird of peace 41 Children's 
game 42 UMW member 43 Four-bagger 44 "-Woman" 45 Trite 47 Chaplains 50 Deserve 51 Security 
device 53 Record again 57 Inter­58 Caspian Sea 
feeder 60 Kind of wave 61 Go on: abbr. 62 Fib 63 Auguries 64 Amerlnd 65 Eject 66 Noted it. 
family 
DOWN 1 Sharp taste 2 Celebex ox 3 A Reiner 4 Eternal 
6001>, TJ.4c FIRSr THING :t WANT 'CU 'TD Cl? IS 00 1t> rue maLES ANI:l ~'-f> ANY~ TRA'I!S Tl-leENa I~N~ SCCIETV l-EFT I>FT£R TJ.¢'1R ~CMEC:t-1 SIMRE E:N::XJGtl r 
~ ( 'IES 'SIR~ 
le 1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All R1ghls Reserved 
1/1/86 


Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

5 Soviet 
security 6 Corner 7 Wind Instru­
ments 8 Employee record 
9 Reveler 10 Ganges' land 11 Fairy tale 
name 12 Top-notch 14 Woolly 21 Arab caliph 23 Chief exec. 25 Greatly to 
a bard 27 Kind of liquor 28 Expanse 29 Kind of crab 42 Clay mixture 51 Filled 30 White heron 43 Regarding tortilla 34 Bizarre this point 52 Cabbage 35 Perry of song 44 Imagine 54 Cool drinks 36 Beyond 46 Damage 55 Breathe 37 Swiss city 47 Aviator heavily 39 Breaks 48 An acid 56 Other 40 Idle period 49 Morsel 59 Mr. Ayres 
"Gee, that's a wonderful sensation . ... Early In the morning, you just woke up, you're tired, movln' kJnda slow, and then that ooooold smell hits your nose ... blood In the water." 
Campus 
•12:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "The Scope of U.S. Famine Relief," The Honorable Peter McPher­son, director, Agency for International Development," Law School Student Lounge 

•12: 
IS P.M.-Meeting, Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality, Ann Kimble Loux, discussing "The Habit of Being," by Flannery O'Connor, Stapleton Lounge 

•3:30 
P.M. ·Seminar, "Feedback Control of Industrial Manipulators With Uncertain Dynamics," Prof. Rahmat Shousreshi, Purdue University, Room 3S6 Fitzpatrick 

•4:
IS P.M. · Seminar, "Three Dead Ends of literary Criticism," Prof. Dr. Wolfram Kromer, University of Innsbruck, Center for Social Concerns Building, Department of Modern and Classical Languages 

•S:lS 
P.M.· Mass, for the Feast ofSt. Thomas, Fr. Edward O'Connor, celebrant, Fr. Gerald McCool. homilist, Sacred Heart Church 


•6: 
l S P.M. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for So­cial Concerns Building 

•6:30 
P.M.-Meeting, Information Meeting on Study in Cairo, Dr. Isabelle Charles, Room 422 Administration Building. Sponsored by Foreign Studies Program 

•6:4S 
P.M. -Forum, on Sexuality Education, Mary Feeley, Saint Mary's, Campus Ministry 

•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, "Challenger -What Happened?" Mike Traynor, Room 118 Nieuwland 

•7, 
9 & 11:00 P.M.· FUm, "First Blood," En­gineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, Jl 

•7:30 
P.M.. Men's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Utah, ACC Arena 

•8:00 
P.M.. Lecture, "Prophets, Priests and Visionaries," Prof. Ithamar Gruenwald, Tel Aviv University, Library Lounge 



Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Spaghetti & Shells Garden Vegetable Quiche Flaked Tuna Chefs Bowl 
.TV Tonight 
9:00P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30 P.M. 
11:00 P.M. 
16 Blacke's Magic 22 Crazy Uke a Fox 28 Dynascy 34 The Planet Earth 46 Lesea Alive 
16 St. Elsewhere 22 The Equalizer 28 Hotel 34 Third Annual Secretary ofState 46 Calvary Temple 
46 Lowell Lundstrom 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Body Electric 46 Praise the Lord 
Saint Mary's Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Spaghetti with Meat & Marinara Sauce 
Spinach & Cheese Cass 
6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 
16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC World News Tonfght 
16 MASH 
22 lbree's Company 
28 jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 28 Wheel ofFonune 
16 Highway to Heaven 22 Mary 
~
• 
3-' On ScJ1F It Wolftnp: "'J'be Gol­
den Boys ofBu!dawld" 22 Foley Square 46 Renewed Mind 


-----------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
----~-------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 29, 1986-page 12 
Seorts 
Irish hope to use tough inside game to claim 13th victory against Utah 
8yNICK SCHRANTZ game and twice being named the help inside for the small Ute lineup. Sports Writer WAC's player ofthe week. The 6-8 forward helps out byprovid­Guard Manuel Hendrix rates right ing six points and five rebounds per 
For the second time in two weeks behind Stroman as a potent offensive contest. the Notre Dame men's basketball force. The 5-11 senior has poured in After Notre Dame's disappointing tc=am faces a squad from the state of over 16 points a game, including loss to North Carolina on Sunday, Utah. Sixteen days ago the Irish lost seven games with more than 20 the team needs a victory to get its by a disappointing 80-76 score at points. Hendrix has struggled some­season back on track. Phelps knows Brigham Young, but tonight they what during the WAC schedule, but his team needs a win, and even with hope to even things up with the rebounded to score 23 points in tougher games ahead on the Beehive State as they host the Uni­Utah's game with BYU. schedule the Irish are preparing versity ofUtah at 7:30 at the ACC. Albert Springs may only be 6-4, solely for Utah. 
The Runnin' Utes enter tonight's but his jumping ability and quick· "Coming off a loss you have to get contest with a 12-7 record, which ness have enabled him to tally al· going again," the coach says. "We includes an 87-69 loss Saturday to most 1 0 points per contest and have to come out ready to play, and I BYU and a 62-52 defeat at the hands seven rebounds per game, second think they're ready to drill some· of nationally-recognized University on the team. In addition, the junior body. ofTexas-El Paso. forward is the team's best defender "We can't look ahead to Mar­
According to Irish head coach and its most accurate shooter, con­quette and the rest of our schedule Digger Phelps, the Utes' mediocre verting on almost 58 percent of his because we look to Utah as a chal­record isn't representative of their shots from the floor. lenge and I think they'll come in overall str<;ngth. Mitch Smith is Utah's tallest quite competitive. I guarantee there 
"Utah's record is deceptive," starter at 6-8. The freshman center will be enough intensity in practice Phelps explains. "They are a talented leads the team with over seven so we will not overlook Utah." team that can really explode on you. rebounds a game and also adds over The signs point to a probable vic­lbey have a good coach, talented six points per contest. tory for the Irish, as Notre Dame is athletes, quickness, and they change Sophomore Gale Gondrezick unbeaten at home while the Utes are defenses often. We just have to rounds out Utah's starting lineup. only 2-5 on the road. Also, the Notre respond to that." The 6-4 guard directs the teams of· Dame's height advantage should 
Leading the way for Head Coach fense and leads the squad in assists, enable it to control the boards, Lynn Archibald's team is forward while also scoring six points a game. something the Irish have done well Jerry Stroman. The 6-6 senior cur­Guard Kelvin Upshaw led Utah in all year, while Utah often has been rently paces the Utes' offense, as he scoring last year, but this year he is outrebounded by its opponents. has averaged over 18 points a game the team's first man off the bench. However, ifthe Irish have another on the year. Stroman is also the The 6-1 senior hasn't lost any of his scoring drought like they did ·at team's third-leading rebounder, shooting touch, as he scores over 10 Nonh Carolina, then they could be with almost six per game. points a .game averaging only 20 in trouble. Utah can use its great 
Stroman has been especially hot minutes ofplay. quickness to score points in a hurry, during Western Athletic Conference Sophomore Bobby Adair comes and should use this abiltiy to give the play, by averaging over 24 points a off the bench to provide valuable Irish a good game. 
Divisional races tighten in men's inter hall hoops 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN Alumni team erased the Morrissey we always compensate with strong her game that was actually played in up its first win of the season with a Sports Writer lead and built a six-point advantage defensive play. the ACC division this week saw Oil· 59-55 victory over winless St. Ed's . .. with about five minutes remaining "In addition to a strong defense, a ion I ( 2-1 ) defeat Flanner II ( 0· 3 ), In the Big Ten division, a tough 
~ 
At at the midpoint of the regular in the game. 65-50. Sorin team ( 3·0) defeated Pangborn
I few players must be singled out for season, the men's interhall basket· At this point, Morrissey went on ( 1-2) by a score of 52-37. Also, the
their play. During ourfinal run, Scott
ball divisional races are unfolding. to outscore Alumni 14-4 in a crucial In the Big Sky division. Hanner I 
undefeated Dillon II team ( 3·0) beat Last week's games featured the con­dosing stretch and eventually and Keenan remained undefeated, Howard( 1·2), 53-39. Other winners 
Veselick scored three straight bas­
kets which ignited our play. Also,
tinuing success of divisional power­pulled away to defeat Alumni, 50-40. while Grace I and Stanford trail by in the Big Ten division this week
Steve Treacy, who led the scoring
houses, coupled with the strongplay Morrissey upped its its record to 3·0 with 12 points, and Brian Koehr, only one game. In this week's action, were Holy Cross ( 1-2). Alumni II (I· 
of the teams that are chasing the with the win, while Alumni fell to 2· who made a few clutch free throws Keenan ( 3-0) crushed the OC Slugs 2), and Pangborn. 
division leaders. 1. Pete Kolletis, a Morrissey captain, in the end, contributed greatly to ( 1·3) by a score of 80-51. Flanner I At this point of the season, all the 
said that a strong defense and some our win." (4-0) easily defeated bothSt. Ed's ( 0-divisional races are still up for grabs. 
In the ACC division, this week saw key players helped carry his team to In other ACC games, Alumni I and 4) and the OC Slugs, 68-49 and 78· Each division has at least two teams the showdown between Alumni I victory. OC Bombers ( 2·1) both gained for· 45 respectively. competing for the divisional title. In and Morrissey, the two undefeated "Positioned defense and strong felt wins over OC I which never Also having an impressive week the remaning weeks, key matchups teams. At the beginning of the game rebounding were the two key fac­fielded a team. In addition, Grace II was Stanford ( 3·1 ). The Studs scored between the leaders ofeach division it was Morrisssey that jumped out to tors in our win," said Kolletis. "We ( 2-1 ) gained a forfeit win over the victories over Zahm ( 1· 2) and will decide who makes the playoffs a 9·0 lead. But consistent play by the are not as quick as other teams, but Carroll Vermin (0·3). The only ot· Cavanaugh ( 1· 2 ). Cavanaugh picked and who does not. 
Irish move up to 14th 
Richmond falls prey to Top-20 jinx 
As8oclated Press preseason poll, 67-61, last Thursday Rounding out the Top Ten were and their only previous loss was a Georgia Tech. the preseason choice 
RICHMOND, Va · Richmond 90-64 defeat at Georgia Tech Dec. as No. 1, Kansas, Duke, Oklahoma, St. wasn't thinking about a place in col­30. John's, Kentucky, Michigan and lege basketball's Top 20 when it North Carolina, 21-0, remained Nevada-Las Vegas. went into Monday night's game the unamimous No. 1 choice of the 
Syracuse, a Top Ten team all
against ·old Dominion, but the nationwide panel of sportswriters season until this week, leads theranking jinxed the team anyway, and broadcasters for the second Second Ten, followed by Geor·
said Spiders Coach Dick Tarrant. 
gctown, Bradley, Notre Dame, In·
"It's like a kiss of death," Tarrant 
<!iana. Virginia Tech, Louisiana State, 
said yesterday. "We cracked the Top 
Lmnsvtlle, 1 ,·xas-EI Paso and Rich­
20 and got bitten last night." 
APPoll mond.

The Spiders were 20th in The As· sociated Press poll which was onpage9 
Lndcteated Memphis State took 
released yesterday, the first time over No. Duke,
the 2 spot from 

Richmond had been ranked since 
which led the Tigers by a slim 20­
the 1954-55 season. 
straight week. The Tar Heels, who point margin in last week's poll.
Just hours before the weekly poll 
beat Georgia Tech and Notre Dame While the Blue Devils dropped to 
results were released, Richmond 
on consecutive days last weekend, fifth, Georgia Tech rose to the No. 3 
dropped a 62·59 home coun deci­
have been atop the poll for every spot despite losing to top-ranked
sion to unranked Old Dominion, the 
voting except the preseason. North Carolina last Saturday. 
Spiders' second loss in 18games. "To be in the Top 20 you have to Kansas made a move to break up
Notre Dame moved up to the No. beat somebody of note · somebody the Atlantic Coast Conference's
14 spot. The Irish were ranked 16th in the Top 20 · and we haven't done domination of the top four spots in
in last week's poll.
that," Tarrant said. the poll. The Jayhawks rose from 
"Navywas close, but we took such Following North Carolina, which seventh to fourth in this week's a beating at Georgia Tech that our received 1,260 points for its 63 first· rankings. The ACC had three of the guys weren't thinking about it." place votes, was Memphis State, 20· top four spots in last week's poll. 
The Spiders beat the Midshipmen, 0, the only other major unbeaten, With Duke's drop the conference who were ranked 19th in the with 1,171 points. now has three ofthe top five teams. 






