---~----------~-~ 
Libya -page 4 

VOL XX, NO. 128 MONDAY, APRIL 21, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

North Quad blackout dims lights but not student pranks 
By CUFF STEVENS 
CopyEdttor 
The lights went out in several North Quad buildings late Saturday night, but the quad lit up with stu­dents' fireworks and a bonfire, wit­nesses said. 
Power failed at approximately 
II :30 p.m., according to Director of UtilitiesJohn Delee. 
Cavanaugh Hall, Breen-Phlllips Hall, Farley Hall, Zahm Hall, LaFortune Stuf1ent Center, Student Health Center and the Administra­tion Building lost power during the failure, according to Delee. 
Delee attributed the cause of the blackout to a short In the electrical feeder line running between Cavanaugh Hall and LaFortune. He said the short triggered a power plant breaker that shut down the af­fected buildings' power. 
After the short was determined, power was turned on for every af­fected building except LaFortune so that Its line could be repaired, Delee said. 
"We didn't want to turn it back on until we found where the problem was," he said. 
He said electricity was restored approximately one and a half hours later to every building · except LaFortune, which regained power at approximately 6:30 a.m. yesterady. 
Farley Hall resident Anne Marie O'Brien said that the crowd of stu­dents who gathered on the quad when the power went out was "wild." 
"There was a lot of firecrackers going off," said Breen-Phillips Hall resident Leslie Heidenreich. A bonfire was also started on the quad, according to Heidenreich. 
Although Cavanaugh Hall's semi­formal was put in the dark, the· dan­cing continued in the hallways, said rector Father Matthew Miceli. 
"The SYR continued upstairs with 
see DARK, page 3 

Titan 34D explosion investigated 
VANDENBERG Calif. · The Air Force: has appointed a missile group commander to head an investigation into an explosion that destroyed a Titan 34D rocket and its classified payload, believed to be a spy satellite, Friday. 
It was the second failed Titan 340 launch in a row. A rocket carrying a KH·ll spy satellite exploded just after liftoff Aug.. 28. 
The rocket was barely off the ground when it blew up in a fireball that showered the seaside launch pad with flaming debris and spread a 
--.. ,.......J' 

·--------~----------­
huge toxic cloud of rocket propel­lants over the Santa Barbara County coast. 
The cloud drifted out to sea, the Air Force said, and the nearby com­munity of Lompoc was not endan­gered. Fifty-eight people were treated at the base hospital for skin and eye irritations, and three were admitted. 
Col. Lee Heinz, commander ofthe 6595th Missile Test Group, was named president of the panel inves­tilo:atlng the explosion. 
Although the Air Force said the payload was classified, the Titan al­most certainly carried either a 
-

A.Prnoto 

A U.S. helicopter takes offfrom Lebanon Saturday amid uncon­finned reports it was carrying the remains of slain American hostage Peter Kilburn. 
highly classified KH-11 photo recon­naissance satellite or a new, previously unknown spy satellite, analysts Paul Stares and Jeffrey Ric­helson said Friday. 
Stares Is a military space expert at the Brookings Institution in Was­hington, and Richelson is a military reconnaissance expert at American University In Washington. 
Friday's explosion, coupled with the grounding of the space shuttle fleet after January's Challenger dis­aster, imperils the U.S. military spy satellite program, Stares and Richel­sonsaid. 

Italian salesmanship 
Rebecca Hetland, Len Profenna, and Fred Pugllano (left to 
right) officers ofthe Itt/tan Club, sell t-shirts and canole Friday at 
the Fieldhouse Mall. 



Relatives c-ondemn United States for death of Kilburn in Lebanon 
APTOS, Calif. -Family members of Peter Kilburn, an American hostage killed in apparent retaliation for the 
U.S. air raid on Ubya condemned yesterday the U.S. government for the attack and said it would escalate violence In the area. 
"I don't think Peter will be the only one that will be sacrificed," said Jeanne Repetto, Peter Kilburn's sister-in-law, in an interview. Repetto compared the U.S. air raid on Ubya to throwing a bomb out a window to kill a pest. 
"By throwing the bomb out the window, we've blown out the win­dow, breaking whatever protection we had, and now we have found that, Instead, we hit a hornet's nest. I shudder to think about what will happen," said Repetto, 56, of San Jose, Calif. 
She and other members of the Kil­burn family gathered here at the home ofTim Kilburn, Kilburn's nep­hew, to call upon the world to join them in a day ofprayer April 25. 
Kilburn's body was flown to Andrews Air Force Base near Was­hington yesterday, said Bruce Am­merman, a State Department spokesman. 
His body was discovered with those of two Britons in Lebanon's central mountains Thursday, along with a note saying they had been "c:xecutc:d" by the Arab Revolution­ary Cells to avenge the U.S. attack against Ubya earlier In the wc:ek. 
Ammerman said Kilburn's body arrived about noon and was taken to an undisclosed location for a foren­sic examination. 
The body wa'i flown aboard a U.S. Air Force C-141 transport plane from the U.S. Rhein-Main Air Base In West Germany, where: it had arrived Saturday from the Middle: East, said Master Sgt. Dave McMahon, a U.S. military spokesman at the base, nc:ar Frankfurt . 
Kilburn, of San Francisco, wa.'i librarian at the American University 
see KILBURN, page 4 


CBS Sunday morning news anchor to address students 
ByDAVIDT.LEE Red Smith Lecture Series since its journalistic experiences in three returned to his native land this News Staff inception four years ago, said, books, the latest of which Is the year after leaving in 1925. "Kurait Is considered to be one of best-seller "On the Road with The Red Smith Lecture: Series, 
Charles Kuralt, anchor of the the best, ifnot the best, stylists of Charles Kuralt." sponsored by Coca-Cola USA, CBS news program "Sunday Mor· all ofbroadcasting." After covering stories about began In 1982 "to honor certain nlng." will give his thoughts on Schmuhl added,"Much of his Latin America, Africa, and Viet­journalists for the high standards print and broadcast journalism work reveals an abiding concern nam, Kuralt began his "On the that they hold (and) to recognize: tomorrow as part of the Red for American history, literature, Road" series In 1967.. He writing accomplishments In jour­Smith Lecture: Series. and democratic values. That con­graduated from the University of nalism," said Schmuhl, adding 
Described as "the laureate of cern, and the engaging way he North Carolina, where: he served that visiting lecturers "provide: the common man" by Time presents It, makes him a most ap· as editor of the Dally Tar Heel, their reflections on American magazine, Kuralt Is best known proprlate lecturer " for the beforejoiningCBSln 1957. journalism or some: of Its for his "On the: Road" series series. Kuralt will arrive at Notre problems." which covers the everyday Kuralt's work has earned him, Dame directly from the: Soviet Past lecturers have: included aspect~ ofAmerican life. in addition to two Emmy Awards, Union, where he Is covering a 
American Studies professor a Broadca.'iter of the Year award concert performed by pianist 
seeKURALT, page3 Robert Schmuhl, chairman of the in 1983. He has recounted his Vladimir Horowitz, who 


The Observer Monday, April 21, 1986 -page 2 

In Brief 
Expensive fingers. lloyd's of London has agreed to insure the hands of magician Doug Henning for $3 million, or $300,000 a finger. "A magician is oniy as good as his hands," Henning said. "Without them there would be no illusions. I'd be like a dancer without feet." Henning's publicist, Michael Levine, said the in­surance policy is the largest of its kind. He said Henning practices finger exercises up to eight hours a day to keep his fingers nimble. 
Of Interest 
The Tri-Military Presidential Review 
will be conducted by Notre Dame's Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units today at 4:30 in the south parking lot of the ACC. This year's reviewing officer will be University President Father Theodore Res­burgh. -Tbe Observer 
Meetthe Candidates Night for Saint Mary's hall elec­tions will be held at 7 in the Haggar College Center parlor. Refreshments will be served following the meeting, which is sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. -Tbe Observer 
Photos and quotes ofwomen whose husbands are in prison will be shown at the Centerfor Social Concerns until April27. The Center is open daily from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. -Tbe Observer 
An Tostal Name That Tune contestant and MC 
registration will take place from 3 to 5 today through Wednesday in the An Tostal office. First prize is a dinner for two. -The Observer 
An Tostal"Beatthe Clock" registrationfortwo­
women teams will take place today in the South Dining Hall. For more information, call Christine Widkess at 284-4077.-Tbe Obser­ver 
jUniOrs Of all majors are invited to a Career and Placement Services presentation tonight at 7 in Room 118 of Nieuwland Hall. Paul Reynolds, assistant director of the Career and Placement Services, will summarize the signup process for on­campus interviews and offer suggestions onfilling out a profile form. The presentation will be repeated tomorrow and Wednesday at the same time. -Tbe Observer 
Sports mustrated publisher Donald Barr will speak at the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series today at 4 in the Memorial Ubrary auditorium. The series is sponsored by the Student Alumni Relations Group and student government. -Tbe Observer 
A four-mile race and one-mile fun run 
will take place next Sunday at 9 a.m. at St. Patrick's Park. A t-shirt is included in the 19 entry fee. Awards will be given to overall and class winners, and all participants are eligible for a raffie following proceeds will go to the Volunteer Service Bureau.-Tbe Observer 

Weather 
531 N. Michigan St:, 

As usual it will be cloudy today, with a 30 percent chance of showers and the high in 
il....~~.?..~~.~~.~:.~~.~!........ll 
the middle 40s. Mostly cloudy tonight and much colder with a chance of snow flurries with the low in the upper 20s. Becoming partly sunny tomorrow but continuing cold with the high 40 to 45. -AP 
-
-

___ -~ .L~Y~
-Ihe-O_b-~ -..se~~er----------­
Design Edltor........................Andl Schnuck VIewpoint Layout................ Marla Groner Design Assistant..................Kathy Huston Features Copy Editor................... Ed Nolan Typesetters ...................................Tom SmaU Features Layout................. Mary Reynolds Bill Highducheck 
ND Day Editor.......................... Larry Burke News Editor .................... Mark McLaughlin 
SMC Day Editor .............Priscilla Karle Ad Copy Editor ....................... Chris Bednarski 
Design ...................................... Usa Michaux Sports Copy Editor ......... Dennis Corrigan 
Sharon Emmite VIewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck-
Pbotograpber........................ David Fischer 
ho~t~-----------------------­
The Observer (liSPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through friday except during exam and vacation periods. TheObserver is published hy the students ofthe l 'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for SW per year ( UO per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 4M56. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction right' are 
r~SI"rvcd. 


'Good ole days' can be found in future as well as in past 
"Well, when I was growing up, I had to walk six miles to school in blizzard conditions. You know, a loaf of bread was oniy a nickel--ah, the good-ole days." 
Most everyone knows a relative or old family friend who is known to make statements like the one above. They sit back and reflect on when they were younger, making comparisons to the current craziness of our world and say "When I was growing up, I could have never gotten away with ..." 
As I grew older, I noticed the "good ole day" stories were being told by younger and younger people. 
Lately, I have been kidding my older brother about beginning the "I remember when" stage. He can speak of a walk to school as an exaggerated four miles, al­though he can still say this in a joking manner. 
I thought I had some time before falling into this trap of making comparisons to the "younger" generation. After last weekend, however, I feel myself wanting to tell the world about my two mile walk to high school (there is a direct correlation between the age of the in­
dividual talking and the dis­shaving cream on a friend's 
tance to school). 
Last weekend, some friends from high school and I attended a convention of high school students from ---.---r--r-.,~~ an organization ofwhich we were once members. In all, there were over 300 ofthem and six ofus. The realization that we had gotten old (or at least older) set in quickly; We could feel our arteries start to harden. 
Actually, it took a while for it to sink in that we were in a different world. We all decided to crash their dance and attempt to dance to periodic "heavy metal" special requests from the crowd. We also witnessed a frightning moment when part of the group started simultaneously to chant the words to "like a Surgeon." We were in the twilight zone. 
I realized time is definitely relative after people had difficulty remembering just what year I graduated and when I couldn't recognize the person who's position I held oniy two years before. Four girls screamed across the dance floor to me telling me they are from my old high school (I, of course, had absolutely no clue as to who they were). 
After the dance we sat down and, sure enough, started to reminisce about our old high school days. Fortunately, we did snap out of our daze and started to get back to our realities--college and what we are going to do with the rest ofour lives. 
This eye-opening experience was only the latest inci­dent in noticing the difference two years make. When I 

Scoff Bearby 

VIewpoint Editor 
returned home over Christmas break, I was told of mar­riages, new-born babies, divorces, and even death, not of people older than myself, but happening to people who I regularly saw in the high school hallways. 
I listened in amazement as I was told an old teacher was engaged to a girl I once had a crush on. Amazement turned to amusement as two girls I knew before college asked if a little boy seated a short distance from me in a local mall was mine. 
I realize that we are not really old, though (as I com­
plete a practical joke from 
the good ole days and put 
phone receiver) and some things should never change. I did not have the heart to tell a disgruntled high school senior this after she confided that she was ready to get away from some ofher friends who "haven't grown up." 
The truth is, the minute one fully grows up is the minute most of the fun is taken out of life. While it is important to grow, the "kid in you" should not be forgot· ten. 
When all was said and done, I had a very good time 

last weekend. It was fun to get the "good ole days" out 
ofthe system, butit was even better on the drive back to 
Notre Dame to get ready for the "good ole days" of the 
present and future. After all, I have to begin collecting stories to com­plete the line, "Well, when I was at Notre Dame... 

Celebrate Lifel 
Help the 
dp 

March of Dimes 


Mr. Goodbar ,j 
ClueNo.l ~ 
You may see it eye­to-eye, 
But some are forever in the sky. 


The Observer Monday, April 21, 1986-page 3 

The Oboenrer/Dntd PIC!Iher

Super Dance 
Fresbman Ted Erbrecht helps decorate for Saturday's Knights ofColumbus dance that benifited Muscular Dystrophy. 


Kuralt 
continuedfrom page 1 
columnists James Reston, Murray Kempton, and james Kilpatrick. 
The lecture series honors the late Red Smith, who graduated from Notre Dame In 1927, and dkd In early 1982. 
The only sportswriter to win a Pulitzer Prize In commentary, Smith was "recognized and respected" as one of America's greatest journalists, said Schmuhl. 

The lecture Is at 8 p.m. In the library auditorium. Kuralt will hold a press conference at 9:30 Wednesday morning and then at­tend American Studies classes throughout the day. 

Ideas shared, Hesburgh honored at 'powerful' 25 year CILA reunion 
By MISSY KOLOSZAR 
StaffReporter 
"It was a beautiful, powerful weekend," said James Roemer, Director of Community Relations, about the 25 year reunion held by the Community of Lay Apostalates ( CILA) this weekend. 
CILA is a student service organiza­tion of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's which aims to help underprivileged and disadvantaged people on local, national and international levels. 
The reunion's purpose was to give everyone touched by CILA In the past 25 years the opportunity to get together and share their ex­periences. 
"The weekend was great for the participants because it renewed the CILA Ideals that have become part of their lives," said Mike Lochhead, stu­dent co-chairperson ofCILA. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, Associate Provost Father Edward Malloy, Director of Fatima Retreat Center Father Stephen Gibson and the founder of CILA, Father Larry Murphy participated in the reunion's program. 
Lochhead presented Hesburgh with a water-color painting of the Golden Dome In gratitude for his physical and spiritual support. 
"The reunion was also a salute to Hesburgh for his encouragement of the CILA program," said Roemer. 
One of the highlights of the reunion was the exchange of ideas and experiences among the CILA participants. "Everyone par­ticipated. There was not a silent per­son in the group," said Roemer. 
During the reunion Malloy discussed "what Is Involved in keeping a social justice conscience Integrated In one's life," said Loch­head. 
"The same spirit and values which got CILA started are still present today," said Father Ernest Bartell, a former director of the organization. Currently there are 25 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's from Involved In CILA. 
CILA was the first formal service organization at Notre Dame. It was initially composed of Notre Dame students and acted as a discussion group for social Issues and Catholic social teachings. Many of the Initial members were participants in service projects In Latin America. 
"Today CILA has become more lo­calized," said Bartell. It focuses on providing services to area Institu­tions. He also said 26 Notre Dame student service programs were created out of CILA. 

Anti-abortion activists arrested 
CLAYfON, Mo.-About 100 anti­abortion activists were arrested Saturday after trying to stop women from entering an abortion clinic, authorities said. 
The demonstrators arrested at the Reproductive Health Center were to be charged with trespassing and resisting arrest, said Officer Don Sut­ter of the St. Louis County Police. Many of the demonstrators were from out ofstate, he said, adding that there was no violence. 
Clayton is west ofSt. Louis. 
On Friday, anti-abortion activists shouted slogans and taunts at about 65 women's rights supporters who were picketing outside a St. Louis University building, where about 260 people attended a conference opposing abortions. 
Organizers of the meeting said It was designed to discuss non-violent methods of shutting down clinics that perform abortions. 
The agenda for the conference In­cluded sessions called "Activating and Organizing Christian Resis­tance" and "Understanding Abor­tionists and Their Victims." 

Two tornadoes throttle· Texas town 

The Picture Man 
presents 

Senior Formal Proofs on dis lay 
Monday, April--Friday, April 25 Haggar Center 11am-1pm LaFortune 1 :30pm-4pm 
ICElANDAIR TD EURDPl 
EIIERYTHING 
THATISN'TABARGAIN 





/SFREl
To Luxembourg:RoundtripFare 
New York  $458*  $499t  
Chicago  $518*  $559t  
Balt./Wash.  $488*  $529t  
Detroit  $508*  $549t  
Orlando  $518*  $559t  


Get in on ourlowest fare to Europe inyears. And with it, get a lot 
more thanjust the trip over. Because, when you fly Icelandair, youget 
everything you expect from a full-service airline, with no charge for 
meals or baggage. Every fare includes free wine with your in-flight 
dinner and free cognac after. 
kelandair Values Continue After You Land: Free deluxe, round­
trip motorcoach between Luxembourg and select cities in Germany, 
Belgium and Holland. Special $15 train fares to Switzerland or France. 
Super Saver Kemwel car rentals at just $59 per week in Luxembourg. 
And, if you choose, a day or two stopover in Europe's most beautifully 
kept secret, Iceland. 
•super Bargain Fare. 6-30 day stay. tSuper Grouper Fare, 1-365 day stay. Valid 5/16-6/8/86, $3.00 departure tax applies. For ., onformation & reservatoons, call your travel agent or 
lcelandairiCiiANDAIRJIII" 
Aasodated Press 
SWEETWATER, Texas -Damage was estimated at up to S20 million yesterday in the wake ofa pair oftor­nadoes that slashed through homes, killing one person and injuring 100. Texas Governor Mark White toured the city yesterday to sec what state aid was needed. 
White said he probably would an­nounce tomorrow whether the city should be declared a disaster area. He said he would contact the Texas Housing Authority to sec if aid could be arranged for the homeless. 
"The only thing I can say is tough times never last, but tough people do, and we've got a lot of tough people around here," White said. 
As many as 1,500 people were homeless and property damage was estimated at S 15 million to S20 mil­lion, Mayor Rick Rhodes said yester­day. An overnight curfew was posted to prevent looting. 
Two twisters dipped from the clouds in succession early Saturday, then came together to cut a swath of destruction a half-mile wide and two miles long through a mobile home park, a senior citizens' housing project and a subdivision, Rhodes said. 
More than 2,000 of the city's 12,000 residents were a1fected by the damage to about 800 houses, and three-quarters of those houses were destroyed, Rhodes said. 
He said that although emergency shelters were set up, few of the homeless used them Saturday night because they were taken In by other Sweetwater residents. 
"Last night I think the mood was somewhat relief that we had survived a very trying day. Today, the realization has finally hit us what a devastating blow this has been to the community," the mayor said yes­terday. 
Ten people remained hospitalized 
operated radios provided the music. Many students in Breen-Phillips

Dark 

Hall continued to enjoy Saturday continuedfrom page 1 night despite the blackout, accord­drinking more open than usual be­ing to rector Sister Nadine Over­cause of the darkness," said resident beck. Steve Zalewski. He said battery-"life as usual went on," she said. 
WinaSunnyDay


Get-away! 
Enter the Teleflora Sweepstakes 
for Secretaries' Week, April 21-25! ·• 
···!,; ~~~dV A thoughtful "thank you" to your secretary-~¥~;. Sunny Day Carafe and Mug Bouquets! ~~~ Win two Sunny Day Get-aways courtesy 
of American Airlines and Hyatt Hotels. One for you. A separate holiday for ~~~~ your secretary' Both trips are for 
';.'oi;~>W:AJ:>
two. To enter sweepstakes and order your bouquet, call or visit us soon. 

yesterday, one in critical condition, at Hendrick Medical Center In Abilene, said hospital spokeswoman Jo Thompson. Nine people, all In stable condition, were held over­night In Sweetwater's Rolling Plains Memorial Hospital, spokesman Bud Neffsald. 
"It was just like I was In a vacuum," said Gladys Lane, a resi­dent of the Sun Valley senior citizens' project, as she looked through what used to be the side wall of her house. "I was down on my knees begging the Lord to take care of me. I didn't care about the house." 
Kathleen Lewis, director of the housing project, told the governor that residents had pulled together well through the storm. An 87-year­old project resident was the lone fatality from the twisters. 
A curfew was posted from 7:30 
p.m. to 7:30 a.m. as the Texas Na­tional Guard patrolled the streets. 
An organized half-21 party just became a "half-light and half-dark party," said Overbeck. 
Zahm Hall's fire alarm was tested during the failure by afreshman resi­dent, according to resident Mike Meyer. "It worked," said Meyer, "and It pissed off our rector." 
The dome lights on the Adminis­tration Building were mispointed after power resumed, according to onlookers. 
The lights were pointed at the Alumni Van parked behind the building and at the Sacred Heart Church steeple, prompting specula­tion that they may have been tam­pered with during the blac;kout. 
Notre Dame Security declined to comment yesterday on this pos­sibility or on matters dealing with the power failure, rderrlng all ques­tions to Security Dire~tor Rex Rakow. 
Rakow was not available for com­ment. 
The Observer Monday, April21, 1986-page 4 
Secret Libyan terrorist fund found by Mideast intelligence services 
HAMBURG, West Germany · The weekly BUd am Sonntag neWspaper said Saturday that Ubya had a secret fund to pay rewards to Lebanese ter­rorists to carry out attacks against Is­raeli and. Western targets. 
It said the Ubyan price list, which offered up to S12,000 for a suicide attack, was discovered by Lebanese and Israeli intelligence-services, but gave no source for its report. 
The article also said that British in· telligence agents found out in December that Ubya has been paying $12 million each year to a Palestinian terrorist group headed by Abu Nidal. 
It did not say how long Ubya had been paying money to Abu Nidal, whose real name is Sabry al-Banna, but gave this account of one pur­ported transaction: 
Abu Nidal and Ubyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy met in the Ubyan capital ofTripoli last September and agreed that Abu Nidal's terrorists would attack "English, American, Is­raeli and Egyptian targets" under the supervision of the Ubyan secret service. 
Hassan Ashkal, described as a colonel in the Ubyan armed forces, then gave Abu Nidal the "first install­ment of S5 million." 
In November, Abu Nidal's ter­rorists hijacked an Egyptian Boeing 737 to Malta, and the Incident ended in a bloodbath when 59 people were killed as Egyptian commandos stormed the plane at the Valletta air· port. 
Bild am Sonntag said Ashkai was "liquidated" a day after the assault because Khadafy wanted to remove all traces of Ubyan involvement in the hijacking. 
The newspaper's report appeared in its Sunday editions but was released in advance to other news media. 
"Israeli and Lebanese intelligence services have discovered there is a secret Khadafy price list for attacks," Bild am Sonntag said, and it gave this list: 
Ubya offers 10,000 Lebanese pounds, about S400, for placing bombs or mines against the targets. 
A reward the equivalent of S800 would be paid for hand-grenade at­tacks, while a machine-gun attack would be worth 51,200. 
A terrorist willing to carry out a suicide attack would be guaranteed a sum of S12,000, to be paid to the terrorist's survivors. 

Gorbachev says summit is possible 
Associated Press 

POTSDAM, East Germany -Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev said yes­terday that he was willing to meet President Reagan this year if the United States changed policies he charged were poisoning relations between the superpowers. 
Speaking to reporters at Potsdam, site of the 1945 Allied conference on Germany, Gorbachev said "the meeting (with Reagan) can take place if the United States realizes that itis necessary to take this path." 
"But ifit (America) goes on acting as it is today, trying to poison the atmosphere, this will throw a shadow over any future meeting," the Soviet Communist Party chief said. "Ifit (the summit) is to happen, a better atmosphere is necessary." 
Gorbachev did not elaborate, but he appeared to be referring to last week's U.S. bombing raids on Ubya and recent U.S. underground tests of nuclear weapons. On Friday, Gor­bachev told the East German Com­munist Party congress those actions and the "increased (U.S.) threats" against Nicaragua demonstrated that the United States was following a "militarist and aggressive" policy that could damage U.S.-Soviet rela­tions. 
White House ChiefofStaff Donald Regan said yesterday the United States expected Gorbachev to "live up to his word" and meet with Reagan this year. 
The two men agreed at their Geneva summit in November to meet this year in the United States. No date has been set. 
Regan, interviewed on the NBC television program "John McLaugh­lin: One on One," said he believed the meeting had been "postponed more than canceled." 
The Soviet leader addressed reporters in the courtyard at Cecilienhof, a manor house where Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, Presi­dent Harry Truman and Prime Mini­ster Winston Churchill of Britain met in the summer of 1945 to decide the fate ofpostwar Germany. 
Gorbachev was the first Soviet leader to visit the site since Stalin was there, East German officials said. They said other Soviets had not come for "political reasons" after Nikita Khrushchev · denounced Stalin. 
Gorbachev has been in East Berlin for the party congress since Wed­nesday and is expected to return to Moscow tomorrow. Yesterday was his first day away from the congress, which ends today. 
Explosion of 'dud bomb' injures 3 
Associated Press 

TRIPOU, Ubya -Ubyan officials said a bomb that did not explode when dropped during the U.S. air strike blew up Saturday night in a residential district, Injuring a man and two boys. 
The boys, ages 11 and 13, were playing soccer when they found the " bomb in a mound of rubble in the 
,.; ,. Bin-Ashour district, said the officials. It blew up at about 7 p.m. when the man tried to remove it, they said. The officials, who insisted on anonymity in accordance with government regulations, said the man lost his right hand and suJfered serious wounds in the chest and left arm. The boys were slightly hurt, the officials said. There was no independent con­firmation of the report. Ubyan offi­cials were restricting foreign reporters to their hotels except for escorted trips. Ubyan leader Moammar Khadafy's No. 2 man, Staff Maj. Abdel-Saiam )alloud, held a news conference Friday and accused the United States of bombing Ubya be­cause attempts· to have Khadafy poisoned had failed. Jalloud also said Ubya may offer naval bases to the Soviet Union ifthe 


Kilburn 
continuedfrom page I 

of Beirut for 20 years until he disap­peared on Dec. 3, 1984. 
He had not been seen in public since, although Tim Kilburn said the family had heard from unidentified sources that he was still alive until this week. 
Five other American kidnap vic­tims are stlll missing in Lebanon. 
United States continues its "barbaric aggression" against his country. 
.Before the reported bomb explo­sion, the government said earlier Saturday that Ubyan explosives ex­perts were searching for scores of unexploded bombs dropped during the air raid Tuesday. 
Ubyan military officials said Satur­day they found 1 7 unexploded frag­mentation bombs near Tripoli's international airport. The airport's military wing was one offive U.S. tar­gets in the raid. 
Army Maj. Ahmed Abdallah told reporters Saturday that 11 shells crashed inside the airport zone during the U.S. raid but claimed they did not cause substantial damage. 
The military officials claimed the 
U.S. attack failed because American pilots panicked when they ran into libya's air defenses. 
An official announcement on Ubyan radio said army engineers planned yesterday to detonate "dud bombs" dropped by the Americans at Sidi al-Said on the coast west of Tripoli. 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents PROFESSOR ANTHONY M. TROZZOLO Huisking Professor of Chemistry 

Solid-State Photochromism: The Ylide and its Odyssey 
APRIL 21st 8:00PM 
MEMORIAL LIBRA. Y AUDITORIUM 

These guns are just part of a display of rifles, pistols, knives, t-shlrtsand windowstickerssold this weekendata gun show In the 
ACC. 



Libyan blames Reagan for killing of chickens 
Assodated Press 
TRIPOLI, Ubya -Farmer Milud Mohammed Hassen said Saturday that the U.S. air strikes against Ubya cost him at least 300 of his best chickens. 
"Tell Reagan, Thank you very much," Hassen shouted to a crowd of journalists taken by Ubyan offi­cials to inspect the damage from Tuesday's bombing near the Tripoli airport. 
"He killed my chickens.... Reagan is a chicken killer," the 61-year-old farmer shouted in Arabic. His com­plaints were translated for jour­nalists by a government interpreter. 
"My chickens were asleep, now they are buried," he said, standing near a devastated hen house, its tin roof blown to pieces by a powerful blast that gouged a crater in the orange grove nearby. 
He said, however, 5,700 other hens and chicks survived the pre­dawn air raid and he considered himself lucky because his rabbits escaped unhurt. 
"They are smart," he said. "They went underground after the first bomb." 
Amid a swarm of television cameras, photographers and cluck­Ing poultry, Hassen then grabbed two white hens by the neck and began chanting, "Down with the 
U.S.A. Down with the U.S.A." 

Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments NOWRENTINGFORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, 
all deluxe features ' 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
-

(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at120 NO Ave 
~7/256-5716 
Call Anytime 

~ 
FRESHMEN:are you looking to get involved in Student Government next year? 
Applications are now available for Sophmore Advisory Council Reps. and Sophmore Class Commissioners are available in the Student Activities Office (8:30-4:30) 1st floor LaFortune 
Applications due by 5:00pm, Friday, April 25 at the Student Activities Office 
All interested are encouraged to apply 

---~-~--·~----------~----~ -­


Accent 
Monday, April 21, 1 986 -page 5 
All this for a room?


A·n T·o·s·t·a·l 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunchbox

Something for everyone 


DOUG ANDERSON features writer By the way, the number of events related to food Is an interesting or those of you who don't know, statistic. Nearly 20 percent of all the
F tomorrow Is the beginning ofAn activities require some kind of Tostal. lbis week of debauchery has eating prowess, whether it be choc­grown drastically since Its Incep­olate cream pie, cereal, licorice, or 
tion In 1967. hot peppers. 
,..AIUDPIT TEMPTATION 

Stutlng as a three day festival, An But what makes An Tostal so Tostal now covers six days: Timid special? Surely It Isn't the eating Tuesday, Wicked Wednesday, contests or the)ell-0 wrestling. 'lbirsty Thursday, Frivolous Friday, Many students feel that it is a Sunny Saturday, and Serene Sunday. 

•

Not only has the length of the festival increased, but new events have also increased dramatically. Since 1984, 23 events have been added. Students now have the op­portunity to engage In 75 diJferent activities during An Tostal. Classes rank as 76th In the list of things to do during An Tostal, even for en­gineers. 
The name An Tostalis Gaelic for "the festival." The Irish celebrate a similar festival, although their ac­tivities are less adventurous than Jell-0 wrestling. The spirit of the festival lives on, however; It presents something for everyone. 
There are many traditional favorites, among the most popular are the chariot races and the bookstore basketball games. However, many of the new events should be quite popular given enough time. Who could resist the glamour of cow chip throwing throwing. or the thrill of eating as much popcorn as humanly pos­sible? 
laying out. I think An Tostalis just organized recreation for all these people-they'd.all be out there anyway," stated Mike Farnan. An Tostal also allows students to relax 
one last time before finals, which gives all a much needed rest. 
"With all of the pressure on the students throughout the year, I think we'd all go crazy ifit weren't for An Tostal," quoted one anonymous Oak Room dweller, "It's good that we can blow everything off for a while and relax. I'm always ready for the last few weeks of school after I've had so much fun during An Tostal. I can't walt until it starts up this week." 
In fact, the entire campus seems to be waiting for this festival. Talk in the dining halls and dorms center around events and possible low test scores resulting from indulgence In these events. 
Upperclassmen advise poor In­nocent freshmen In the ways ofAn Tostal -where to go, what events to be sure to go to. An Tostalls one of the few happenings, except for pasta night at dining hall, that af­fects everyone on campus. 
Nobody Is Immune from the 'An Tostal bug.' Signs of infection are a 

, 
EC:J(j TlfROWIN4 
chance for people to get out and enjoy themselves after a winter of being locked in dorm rooms, the library, and Briget's. 
"I think that it Is a good chance for everybody to get out. All you have to do Is look outside, and the quads are full ofpeople throwing a Frisbee or a football, or even just 

" 
,-tfJSCALCULATI ON 
severe rash encountered when entering the library and a fully stocked refrigerator. Don't try to fight It, though, It shouldn't last more than a week. As An Tostal Chairman Kendra Erven advises, "...put away those books, pull out your sunglasses, and prepare to enjoy-An Tostal comes but once a year!" 

R
oompicks. Mention those two words on campus these days, and you'll see students begin to change Into something less than human. 
Pulses rise, palms grow sweaty, and eyes dart nervously. In more 
severe cases, students will develop long, fang-like teeth and an 
abnormal overgrowth offacial hair. 
Yes, it's time for that traumatic year-end ritual when students 
rearrange friendships and backstab their peers. Tempers flare, egos 
are bruised, and emotional rollercoasters run wildly out ofcontrol. 
All for a stupid dorm room. 
St. Mary's held room picks shortly before spring break. As usual, 
there were all kinds offrantic negotiations, followed by heartaches, 
sobs, and annoying high-pitched shrieks. 
At Notre Dame, the fun begins this week, when rectors post lists 
ofdorm residents' names that have been randomly scrambled by a 
computer. These lists give the order in which students will choose 
their rooms. 
H your name happens to show up near the top of the list, you'll suddenly become very popular. Since you can choose one of the ·best and largest rooms in the dorm, everybody wants to be your roommate. Friends come crawling out ofthe woodwork. 
They begin to drop by for social visits, they offer to do your 
homework, they leave six-packs ofimported beer by your door. 
Those in biology lab go so far as to name their fetal pig after you. 
It's very moving. 
But somehow you see through it all and realize that these 
"friends" are merely flattering you, using you. 
All for a stupid dorm room. 
Along with the room pick lists, the rectors will often post floor 
plans, indicating the size and location of all the rooms in the dorm. 
For the entire week before room picks, crowds ofstudents 
congregate by the floor plan posters continuously, picking out 
which rooms they want, and devising plots to assure getting those 
rooms. 
For example, a couple ofyears ago, a hulking football player In 
my dorm wanted to make sure that nobody else picked Room 21 7 ­
the room he wanted. On room pick night, he simply stood in front 
of the floor plan, his broad shoulders blocking Room 21 7 from 
everyone's view. 
At one point in the evening, a scrawny freshman walked up to 
him. 
"Excuse me, sir," the frosh said, "but can you please step aside a 
little?" 
"Nope." 
"I just want to see ifRoom 217 Is available on the floor plan," the 
freshman persisted. 
"Usten, pal," said the big Junk, "ifyou take Room 21 7 I will personally see to it that the only room you'll need is a pine box." The freshman had a sudden change ofheart, deciding that fourth floor would be a much better choice. 
The experience left permanent emotional scars on the freshman. He never came near Room 21 7 again. In fact, the poor kid was terrified by the very number. Every time he read a book and got to page 217, he would suddenly turn pale, begin to tremble, and quickly skip to the next page. 
All because ofa stupid dorm room. There are many considerations to take into account when choosing a room. 
Last year, a friend ofmine made sure to choose a room on the west side ofthe dorm so the mornlng sun wouldn't bother him as he slept off his hangovers. 
Another friend chose a particular room because of the excellent TV reception it got for shows like Double Jeopardy and Divorce Court. 
I've even heard ofa Notre Dame rugby player who purposely chose a room that he knew was roach-and rodent-infested. He wanted to save a few bucks on late-nlght snacks. 
These are all valid considerations. But when students begin to quibble about one room over another because ofan extra six inches in length, the situation gets to be pretty absurd. 
The quibbles lead to quarrels, the quarrels iead to shouting matches, shouting matches lead to violence, and violence leads to bloodshed. 
All for a stupid dorm room. 
When the room pick process is left up to random computer lists and the self-centered, ineffective negotiations ofstudents, feelings are inevitably going to be hurt and friendships are going to suffer. 
However, I have an all-new solution that would end room pi~k problems forever.l propose that each dorm sponsor an intrahall mud-wrestling tournament, in which all residents would be required to participate. 
The winner ofthe tournament would get the room ofhis choice, followed by the second place finisher, and so on. No discussion or verbal agreements would be allowed to take place. Everything would be settled in the mud-wrestling pit. Instead ofhurt feelings and severely damaged friendships, there would be just a few bruises and pulle~ muscles. 
You're probably thinking that mud-wrestling might be a bit harsh for the women's dorms. I agree-women shouldn't have to get mud in their hair and underneath their nalJs. Therefore, I propose a milder alternative for women -JELL-0 wrestling. 
I'm sure the ND administration wouldn't ever take my plan seriously. They'd probably say it was a stupid idea. Well, that's right -itis a stupid idea, a delightfully stupid idea. 
All for a stupid dorm room. 

11 ANO IN£ MosT ~PUL ..K To~TAL JIAf &eN -TilE 


~i~~~_()__l_._ll__t____________________M_o_nd_~_,A_pr_il-21-,1-98-6--p-ag-e6 
Islam has strict principles on use of violence 
I would like to respond to the issues raised by Nancy Hansen in her article :Islam does not condone terrorism, violence." But before· I talk aboUt the position of Islam from issues like war, terrorism, and peace, I want to refer briefly to the misunderstanding of Islam on the part ofmany people. 
Abdelkader M. guest column 
People mix usually between the world "Muslims" and the world "Islam." However, 
r there is a difference between both of them. Islam as a religion is a group ofprinciples that have been sent down by God (Allah) to refine the conduct ofpeople. Muslims are a group of people who believe in Islam. But Muslims are not equal in the degree of their following the priniciples ofIslam. On the top, comes the one who tries to live every Islamic principle in his life. At the bot­tom, comes the one who does not have anyth­ing from Islam except the name. Between 
these two limits, come many categories which differ in the degree oftheir faith. Since no one is pedect, we cannot evaluate Islam as a religion, through the conduct ofany category ofits followers, especially when we start from 
the bottom. 

Islam is not agroup ofpeople, it is a group of principles. We evaluate the behavior of the followers of Islam through the Islamic prin­ciples, rather than the other way around. For someone to evaluate Islam, he needs to go to its basic sources: the Quaran and the tradition of its prophet "Mohamed" (Peace be upon him). 
Let us now talk about the thcee issues that we mentioned before. In Islam the war is jus­tified only to defend and protect the self, the property and the religion against any external aggession. Let me quote here from tJte holy Quaran, "Fight in the cause ofGod those who fight you, but do not transgress limits; for God loves not transgressors" ch2 verse: 190. From this verse it is clear that war justified in Islam is not for aggression. But even for the jus­tified war, Islam put what we call "the morals of war." These morals mandate that the sol­diers of Islam must not kill the helpless people. The helpless here are defined as those who are not equipped for war nor participat­ing in it. That is to say, in Islam, the goal does not justify the mean. If you want to be rich, this is a noble goal, but this does not justify to steal This means, in Islam, the goal must be noble and the mean must be noble too, and this is what makes the war legitimate. 
The violation of any of the conditions which are related to the goals or the means of war (as mentioned before), turns the legitimate war to terrorism. That is, a war for illegitimate goal (like aggression or occupa­tion) is terrorism, a use of illegitimate ways and methods (like killing helpless people) even to achieve legitimate goals is terrorism. Needless to say, a use ofillegitimate ways and methods to achieve illegitimate goals is the top of terrorism. 
But what is peace? First ofall, peace is one of the names of God in Islam. The greeting that the Muslims are to use in their dally life is "peace on you." The word "Islam" is derived from the Arabic word "Salam" which means peace. That is, peace is a concept that Islam appreciates and invites people to. But what does peace mean? Does it mean a case of no war, nor terrorism? 
Of course no war, nor terrorism is a part of the peace process, but it does not mean neces­sarily peace. The oppressor may have the power to keep the oppressed silent for a while. This case of silence cannot be described as a case ofpeace. It may be a case of peace for the oppressor, but surely it is not for the oppressed. 
Peace by its nature cannot be separated from justice. Peace must be for all, otherwise it is not a peace. Terrorism may be the il­legitimate child of oppression or may not. It may be the black market in which people look for freedom in a society that keeps the prices quiet by force, where there is no freedom in the controlled market. But any way Islam sup­ports neither the black market nor the con­trolled one. 
But what does peace mean? It does mean the disappearance of the reasons behind war and terrorism and with them war and ter­rorism. 
AbdelkaderM. ts a graduate student atNotre Dame. 

P.O. BoxQ 
Career and Placement serves students well 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the many seniors who have recently completed their job search, we would like to express our sincere apprecia­tion to Kitty Arnold, Paul Reynolds, and the entire staff at Career and Placement Services. As the beneficiaries oftheir efforts, we wish to thank them for the hours of group seminars, personal consultations and the numerous events they have sponsored throughout the recent interview process. · · From the introductory sessions that ac­quaint juniors with successful interview and job search techniques through their reloca­tion services, Career and Placement has been an invaluable asset and resource during this crucial stage ofour college experience. 
Having friends at other schools who often complain quite vocally about the quality of services provided by their career and place­ment offices, we feel fortunate to have a ded­
icated  and  professional  stlllf  which  is  
committed  to  continually  improving  its  
service to students.  

Recognizing that flaws exist in some programs, the staff has made strides toward upgrading services and developing new programs. Foremost among these improve­ments has been increasing the number and 
diversity of the employers who interview at Notre Dame. ­
We encourage all students to support Career and Placement and to attend the numerous events it sponsors throughout the year. The opportunities it provided have given us a significant advantage over the can­didates at other competitive institutions. 
As seniors who will reflect on this time with positive memories, we owe much of this feeling to the professionals at Career and Placement who have served us well. 
Paul Aiello Chip DiGiovanna 
Pat Collins John Moran 
Richard Conklin Peter Thursby 
Bryan Dedrick Notre Dame students 


No one Catholic stand on complex issues 
Dear Editor: 

PhllUp Lao's response (The Observer, April 
15) to the University's policy on investment in South Africa is an old refrain that we hear over and over again. When all arguments fail, and a student or a faculty member cannot get his way on a social issue, the Catholic or Chris­tian card is pulled out ofthe deck in the confi­dent expectation that it will trump all opposing views. It's an interesting and rather desperate forensic technique. We find that University policy is a "damning indictment of the state of the Catholic faith at Notre Dame" while students and faculty supporting that policy are in all probability in danger oflosing their souls. 
When argument sinks to this level we are all the worse for it. I don't suggest that we should ignore the relevance of the Catholic tradition in addressing troublesome social and political issues. Indeed, we have an obligation to do so. But on most social and political issues the tradition does not speak in a single voice. There is no one Catholic or Christian response to a complex issue like investment in South Africa. Sensitive men and women, indeed committed Catholic men and wom­nen, disagree on what is the best strategy or means for achieving justice in that part of the world. And I should hope that they would continue to disagree and not march in lock­step to any tune struck up by the most pas­sionate believers among us. It may surprise the passionate believers that others among us who may disagree with them do have con­sciences informed by Catholic principles. We simply may disagree on how conscience is to be applied to a specific situation. So this is a 
plea  for  more tolerance  and  less  self­ 
righteousness.  
DonaldP. Kommers  

Edt tor ofThe Review ofPolitics Professor ofGovernment and Law 

Catholic rules on sex do not restrict freedom 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response toJulie Maier's let­ter about premarital sex. It is not true that the Church's teaching against premarital sex is in­sulting to the divinity and freedom of the in­dividual. In fact, the experience many have had with sex, even in the most meaningful relationships, shows us the tragic conse­quences ofignoring God's law. 
Marriage loses its sacredness when this spe­cial act is not held in its correct context. If marriage is not kept sacred, often people do not understand that it means for better or for worse; and many of my friends who come from divorced families can witness to this tragedy oferrant sexual practices. 
In no way does the law against sex before marriage constrain people's true freedom. Rather, people who follow this law in the way that Christ intended are set free for a gift of themselves to others in a much more meaningful human love, which can endure the tensions and tragedies to which we are all subject. 
Those who are eager to explain this law's position are not judging the heart of their fel­low people. To assume this is to misinterpret the intentions of the Church in giving us its 
laws. Paul Kueber Keenan Hall 


Quote of the day 
''When we cannot get what we love, we must love what is within our reach." 
French Proverb 

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief . .... __ ... _........ Joe Murphy Business Manager ... __ .... Eric Scheuermann 
--------~ -.L-=-Y:_,

---Ihe-Obse~,.er---_ 
Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . . _____ ..... _____ . Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . .. ____ ...... Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239·5303 Sports Editor . ....... _....... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager. __ ....... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor. _........... _. _... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ... _____ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor . ......... _. Margie Kersten Photography Manager . ........ _. Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager . .... _....... David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor .. _..... _. _.......... Tripp Baltz Grap-hic Arts Manager . _____ ... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ............. _.. Mark Pankowski 
r their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free r expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 19~6 
.r--------·~------~~---------------------------------·------------------------------~----...-------------·----------------~----~ 
The Observer Monday, April 21, 1986 -page 7 

Baseball standings 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
IMt  
w  L  Pet.  08  
St. Louie  7  2  .778  
Plltaburgh  5  2  .714  1  
NewYor1<  5  3  .825  1.5  
Montreal  4  8  .400  3.5  
Philadelphia Chicago  3 2- 8 7  .333 .222  4 5  
Houston  8  3  .727  
San Francisco  8  4  .887  .5  
San Diego  7  7  .500  2.5  
AHanta  4  8  .400  3.5  
Cincinnati  4  8  .400  3.5  
LoeAngelea  4  8  .308  5  

,.......,........""' New Yor1< 8, ~0 Loe Angeleo 7, Adanle 3 Houston 6, Cincinnati 4 Plltaburgh 8, Chicago 8 (-p. dart<Mu) Montreal 2, St. Louie 0 S1111 Franclaco 4, San Diego 0 
AIHIUCAH LEAGUE 
Eat 
w L Pet. Ga NewYor1< 7 4 .836 BaMimore 7 5 .583 .5 Boston 7 5 .583 .5 Detroit 6 5 .545 1 Cleveland 5 5 .500 1.5 Mllwauk.. 5 8 .455 2 Toronto 5 7 .417 2.5 
Weet CaiHornla B 5 .815 Kansas City 7 5 .583 .5 Oakland 7 5 .583 .5 Texas 8 5 .545 1 Seallla 5 7 .417 2.5 Minnesota 5 8 .385 3 
Chicago 2 10 .187 5.5 
,.......,........""' Boston 8, Chicago 2 Baltimore 8, Taxaa1 New Yor1< 5, Mllwauk..4 (10) Kanaaa City 8, Toronto 4 California 8, Mlnroeaota 5 Oakland II, Seallla 3 



Sports Briefs 
The Blue-Gold football game will be held 
Saturday, April 26 at 1:30 p.m. In Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted upon presentation of a current ID card at gates 15 and 16 only. Generai admission tickets are available to the public at gate 10 ofthe ACC. The cost for adults is J3 ( f4 on game day) and U for youth ( U.50 on game day).-Tbe Obseroer 
The ND baseball team dropped a doubleheader to Detroit on Saturday, losing by scores of8-6 and 13-10 in 10 innings. Yesterday's twinbill was rained out, and will be made up today.-Tbe Observer 
The Notre Dame golfteam finished t6th out of 21 teams at the Kepler Ivltatlonal held at Ohio State. Lon Huffman was the top Irish finisher with a two-round score of 1 58. Host Ohio St. finished first In the tournament. -Tbe Observer 
The An Tostal golf tournament will be held tomorrow at II a.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Two­person teams may enter the best-ball tournament and no prior registration Is neccessary. There is a $3 entry fee per person. For more Information call Robert Spoonmore at 283-1881. -Tbe Obser­ver 
In the NBA playoffs yesterday, Boston beat Chicago, 135-131 (20T, Boston leads the series, 2-0), Philadelphia downed Washington, 102·97 (series tied, 1-1 ), Portland edged Denver, 108­106 (series tied, 1-1 ), Milwaukee defeated New Jersey, 111·97 (Milwaukee leads, 2-0 ), and Dallas beat Utah, 113-106 (Dallas leads, 2·0).-Tbe Obseroer 
The An Tostal bike race will be held Thursday, April 24, on the Saint Mary's campus. All interested two-person relay teams must register by tomotTOw. For more Information call John Cahill at 283-2506.-Tbe Obseroer 
The An Tostal Hangover 5-K run will be 
held on Saturday, April 26, at 9:30 a.m. starting at Stepan Center. Registration will take place the morning of the race at 8:30, aiso at Stepan. For more Information callJefiWesthoven at 283-3559.-Tbe Obseroer 
The NBA playoffs will be featured on "Speaking of Sports," airing tomorrow at 10 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may call in questions or comments to hosts Rudy Brandl and Rick Rietbrock at 239-6400.-Tbe Obseroer 
Saint Mary's is accepting applications for aerobic instruc­tors for next year. IfInterested, contact Mary Jo Lambert at the An­gela Athletic Facility at 284-5548.-Tbe Obseroer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. -Tbe Observer 
The Obsen·er Notrt' l>amt· otfin:. lot·atnl on tht· third floor of l.~~ortum· Studt·nt Ct'ntl'r. at"l"l'fl" da,..,ifil'd ad\·l'rli•in!( from lJ am until ·I p m . :\londa\ throu~h l'rida\ The Obserr·er ~aim .\lar,·, otfin·. l<ll"att·d on tht· third floor of fla!(gar Colle!(<' Ct·ntl'r. a<Tl'flt' da,,ifinb from 12 ~0 p.m until .~ p m ..\lon· <.Ia~· thou!(h Frida~ lkalllint· for m·~t·lla• tla.'·"linh i• .~ p.m .-\11 da..ifit·d• mu't ht· prt·patd. t·ithl"f in pt·r-on or h• mJtl < hJr!(<" '' I 0 t"l"nt-ll<"f fin·t·harat·


Classifieds 
tt·r, t·r lla\' 
I 
LOST: BLUE WOOL JACKET FROM NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE· FOR SALE • 78 DODGE CHALLENGER 
To the,_.....-STOLl THE BOOK TO THE FAN CLUB OF HOWDY DOODY PARTY AT 814 CORBY SATURDAY MENT EXERCISES. WIU PAY ($$). Excellent Condition, Sporty (SIIWr w/ 
FROII THE SIIC I!NOUSH DI!PT AND THE THREE STOOGES. YOU MAY
NOTICES NIGHT. JUST GOT IT FOR CHRISTMAS CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. racing stripes) $1500 or beat offer Call OFFICE I don't know why you teflthat you HAVE SEEN BETTER, BUT YOU AND LIKE IT A LOT. IF YOU TOOK IT BEFORE10. 283-3282. Ask for Sang or Jell. had to take that blue history book, but M HAVEN'T HAD BETTER. BECAUSE PLEASE CALL ME AND I WON'T BE was very important to a projact that was THERE ISN'T BETTER! BY THE WAY, 

MAD I REWARD. CALL MARK 1785. NEED ONLY ONE TICKET TO COM· underway, and I was hoping you would THE VIEW FROM UP HERE IS GREAT, MENCEMENT WILL PAY$$$$$ CALL return lt. II will take niontha to make up for AND THE CLOSEST YOU'LL GET TO LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME JACKET PAUL AT 1701 all the wor1< that those IMHe lines In the US IS THE HORSE I 
WITH WHITE LETTERS ON BACK. TICKETS book represantad. Pleaaa bring II backlll CALL CHillS English alde, SMC 5-CONQRATULATION811 
TYPING 
LOST ON WEDNESDAY 4/11 AT STEP· SLEEPING QUARTERS I'm too dumb to 
HEN COURTS AFTER BOOKSTORE graduate In May, ao I need a place to stay 

Okay, now you gat to go to bed anytime GAME. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3280. tor Fall Semester. It you have an extra
~. 
you want, big boyl room. I will pay a tllir amount to evan aleep Helpl Need one commencement lk:ket. HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY IIARIA 
(Hal all ... ) LOST:GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH on porch. call 11188. Will pay $1 Call Julie 2781 Je veux partir avec voual Love, a Greco-Aoman knuckfe......alng(WITH SCRATCHED CRY5-Pierre 

champ TAL).UNFORTUNATI!LY WAS LOST HI!LP WANTED QUITE SOMETIME AGO.(I HOPE YOU llotal Daall Clartl, ,........_ Opanlng, 
HAVEN'T GROWN TOO ATTACHED TO Evanlnga, FuiV,..,...._ Anll. Steve Auerbach How about a l»er7 
Hell Prtca Sale IT).POSSIBLY LOST AT ACC SWIM through Su--cafl233-1114 7LIII.• PERSONALS Where did tha old times go? The City Pub on all COIIIplalntll TYPING -Faal. High-QuaJity. Call 287­
112117 
POOL.REWARD(AND NO QUES· 1p.m. Club 
Tille.._Only 
TIONS). PLEASE CALL 32811,ASK FOR

Typlng/W~ 
BRIAN IF FOUND. ND/SIIC CHARrrY BALL U there's a smile on my lace, If's only CeH 2311-0BUD277.a131 
A family celebraiJon of/He OAR HOUSI!: COLD BI!I!R I LIQUOR. there trying to loollhe public. and LOST: MENS'S GOLD NO RING. LOST Saturdey, May 2 at the ACC. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1 DISCOYIR OIIUD ON 4/10. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN Oallnvolwd now. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. CPAa Peek In llayl
fiiRO.TYN-15 yra. axp. I1Udanll law 
FLANNER AND SOUTH DINING HALL. 

papare, reaun.e. d~NM1ellona. 277· 
IF FOUND, CALL STEVE AT 288-5188. FREE COUPONS In thepll-pegaa ol Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE at
5833. 
$$FOR YOUR LOFT CALL JON AT 2047 the Campua T~Dl-,. Uaa Thanka to Dabble Adamczyk and Uaa 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm·12am PLEASE, HAVE A HEART! MY HOPES them today! Vargo for a 11-' O.ncln' lrlah yearl Monday-Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday;EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
OF A BOOKSTORE CHAMPIONSHIP D.R.E. NEEDI!D IIIIIEDIATI!LY TO BE You -.rvathe PSYCHO •-rd•.. for 
3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. COULD BE GOING RIGHT DOWN THE PART OF PLANNING FOR RELIGIOUS not going cruyl Love, the '111-'11 MRS. COKER. 233-70011. 
DRAIN·BUT YOU CAN HELPIII IF YOU EDUCATIONAL WINO OF 5 YEAR OLD lllaggla Ia BACKIII aquae!. MBA • MBA · MBA : Are you guy11 lick of 
HAPPENED TO FIND A BASKETBALL HIGH I!NI!RGY SOUTHERN PARISH.

GOVERNMENT JOBS. S18,040 • 
and better than everl being told grades 11111 not eve<ylhlng ? AT THE ROCK ON WEDNESDAY STRONG ROOTS IN R.C.I.A., R.C.I.C., DISCOUNTED ra Well, lace reallty .... lhey mean every~~\·
151.230/yt'. Now Hiring. Call 805.a87­
eooo Ext. R·INI34 tor currant tadarlli 11a1. 
NIGHT PLEASE CALL JULIE AT 4001 RI!NEW. Domera Do Dallas lngll So rernembat', when you 11111 III'MtO lALII! Iaw ....10,._ 
AND MAKE MY LIFE WORTH LIVING CONTACT: SEARCH COIIIIITTU, JUNIORS JUNIORS Greatk..psau 'Chang'ln' your head agalnat an·Appal' and AGAIN. HOLY FAMILY CATHOLIC COM­'LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR call 3873, 3111, 1040 wondering 'Weber' or not M'allil worth MandA,lr.17-30 -IT. fRANC!~ IHOPN ­
MUNITY, P.O. BOX 130, CLEIIIIONS, PROFILE FORII.' with your ·Appal' against the waH gatting
behind F.tl-Aet1rwt c:.m., Opan 10 
NC27012. 

liS. KITTY ARNOLD, CAREER AND readyswingyourblg "Tavie' at anyone who 
........p.lll. llon.-lllll 
PLACI!III!NT SI!RVICI!S. Tony Loves Maria May 1,2.3 I May comea near. 'Willlamaon' M all come outFOR RENT SS$$ lots of hard, cold cash $$$$$ for 7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. Ill NIEUWLAND 15,18,17 okay In the end ? le!"a hope aolll Sin­
C~DI I'Ofl THI! NUT 
your extra graduation ticket(s) leave SCIENCE HALL cerely, The MBA Jok-rI"UBUSHINO DAY WILL al! AC­mesg. tor John at 2311-7278. ALL MAJORS INVITI!D. HAPPY BIRTHDAY RIAl LOVE, MOUSE CI!I"TI!D UNTIL 2 I'.II. DAILY. 
Jake and Bill -.t to tha Senior formal FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO ONE SMC LOFT FOR SALE · CHEAPIII and hated M. Why? Typical Catholic girls, 
THI!caLLAR 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2878389 JUNIORS JUNIORS CALL 284-4401 that' a why II Ken and Mary are In love and 
(N.O.'I only aludanl ,_..d-) 
FOR SALE 'LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR are ge111ng sickening. Why? Converaa·
t. now accepting employee appllc/IIJcJMI rhi."""r4;;j;;..·o&n;;;/s;;i~i ..M&;y:~· ..ci;&;iiY
CAMPUS VIEW APARTIII!NTS PROFILE FOR II.' lion, that's whyll Greg and women(ln
Appllcatiofu .,. ave/fable al Tl>a c.lllt 
Ball with honorary emcee Lou Holtz 
Aparlmantll available tor liS. KITTY ARNOLD OF CAREER AND general) are 'stomach turning'. Why? Juat 
(In the b._ntot LaForturte). and .,. 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SS$ May 2, 8 p.m.· 1 a.m. at lha ACC
Fall'll PLACEMENT SERVICES. plain corny, that's whyll Mlka and Anndue by Wednaaday, Aprl/23. 
AND CREDIT! Clift notes available. PAN­Proceeds go to World Hunger 
lllonlhi.M-7:110 p.m. TONIGHT. Ill NIEUWLAND Marie. Why? In the beginning -know 272-1441 SCIENCE HAll. why. thal"a whyll Henry and Valentines
DORA'S BOOKS 837 South Bend Ave. All welcome! 
TUUER WORO.PROCESSING 
233-2342 

ALL MAJORS INVITED. Day. Why? Nymphomaniacs and alcohol. 
SERVICE SEE US FOR ALL YOUR ANTOSTAL that's whyll Van Ia getting married to hieTYPING NEEDS PICK·UP/DELIVERY 
78 Datsun 8210. Moving, must sell. Good T·SHIRTS AND IIUGS
HOUSE FOR RENT In Leeper Park May H.T.H. Why? Can't gat any In Indiana,
2111-11178 
cond~lon. 272-9531. can be picked up In the olftca today
15 · Aug22. $310/mo. utll.lnc.ldeal tor2. Established Band, Into New Music . that's whyll Mark Brostowald and Jon'o 
and -.owfrom 3-5.
287-402~ Looking tor a Guitarist and Drummer tor old name In Pittsburg. Why? Mark'a hard GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U FOR SALE: 1878 Ford Pinto 4 sp, 2 dr, 
Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 up, that's whyll Adolfo. Why? To let uarepair). Alao delinquent tax property. Call hatch Best otter: call Jim ]1405 (alter
CLEAN 2bdrm HOUSE on NO Ave tor know how Ubyans probably act, that's805-887-liOOO axt. GH·INI34 tor lnforma· 
10pm)

summer renlal. Full lurnlahed.287·8825 whyll Foreigners who could knock buz· trom4-8pm. zarda ott a dlsantary wagon. Why? To let 
don 
ATTENTION ALL DOMERS: AN TOSTAL (HANOOVI!R?) 5K RUN FOR SALE·SANSUI 55 WATT STEREO BECCA BARNETT IS 22 TODAY AND Come and gat that blood flowing and 
us know how refreshing a dirty bathroom RECEIVER MODEL 881. B.I.C BELT WILL BE ACCEPTING BIRTHDAY sweat out the festivities of the night
4 I 5 BEDROOM HSES FOR RENT, smells, that's whyll Adolfo. Why? BLOCK OF 5 HOUSES (3 LEFT) $400 DRIVE TURNTABLE W/SHURE M85ED WISHES AND KISSES ALL DAY LONGI before... join In and get pumped tor the Khadaly"s clone, that's whyll MBA IChool
LOST/FOUND I 
CARTRIDGE, O'SULLIVAN FULL RACK Saturday events. Pour outlha energy tor 
MO. CALL 258-0833 OR 234-9384. SHE CAN BE REACHED AT 284-5112 and ~s turmoil, gripes and agony. Why? 
SYSTEM W/ RECORD STORAGE, AND SK. Prizes tor the first 5 men and women FOUND:CANON CAMERA CASE 4 AL TEC LANSING SPEAKERS. IIARIA GRONER AKA BOO llnlshers and randomly selected sur· easier. that's whyll AF35M at the SENIOR FORMAL. CALL SOUNDS GREAT. CALL MIKE·1843 OR Your friends from Augusta and Regina vlvors. Register at Stepan alter 8:30AM .. JOHN al287 ·8518. WANTED MARK AT 282·2023 FOR MORE INFO want to wish you a very happy 22nd The pounding (of the pavement) begins -~·~·~-~-~.~.~-~.!.~.~-~.~.·-~.~.~-~-~-~-~.~-~-······''' 
Cliff Stevens: Great job copy editing 

................................................................ To remind us that reality will be much 
......................................................... birthday TODAY. II will get ugly tonight so at 8:30AM. JDIN IN 
Tueaday ·ThanksI Mary 

LOST:MINOLTA FLASH CASE AT NEED WHEELS FOR THI! SUIIIIER7 we're bringing our cameras I Luv, all of us. 
································································ ................................................................
Are you a Salntllary'a atuclantlooklng 1888 AMC Ambassador, automatic, V8, TO MY FELLOW SMQ: GRETCH, MISSY HAPPY 20th JI!LL<>-HI!ADI You knowSENIOR FORMAL. PLEASE CALL 
tor a well paying aummar lob that will good transporlallon. $600 or best offer. ruad CAEMGEN MIRGIUS: It you really I DENISE..THANKS FOR THE all-you to gain profMatonat ax­Call 287·5235 alter 5 p.m. or anytime on want to "be friends', why don't you try acting SURPRISE B·DAY PARTY BASH ON -you -· Love, your non-Jalfo. 
JOHN AT 287· 8518. 
headroomlaa . 

weekends. like one? "sar' THE 12THI YOU GUYS ARE
..i&iiNQ:· cfioss· ;;;;;•·p;;;;;..i~i~ .,.,..._? Apply now tor • poaltlon u 
a PHONI!/IIAIL Caller. You will be cal­PHENOMINALI P.S. REG-WANNA 
ling alumnaa, ,......., and lrlanda ol PLAY ANOTHER GAME OF POOL? DAYI! FLANAGAN 
EMG. The value of the pen tranacenda 
any monetary conaklaratlona. II you took NO GRADUATE NEEDS ONE COM· 
~. I'll buy you your own when you return M. MENCEMENT TICKET·
SIIC aa part of a lundnllalng program. FOR SALE • 2-bad loft, finished I GRETCH·YOU ARE A MAARVELOUS FORUIIOC. Apply now at the SIIC ,_.....nat­
stained, DESPERATEL Y·BIG BUCKS$$ PARTY·GIVERII LOVE.JULES Vote Dave, people at The Happening or call Martha Hawltt at 1351 tor -black vlnyltoveaaat, and 2 draaaara. CAU DREW AT 272·4540 Housadol FOUND: 'CAME'RA"' AT''S'EN'IOR'''BAR datalla. Alao nMCia6-Clerical help. Call Sheila at272-10111. BETH SWITI!K BEFORE SPRING BREAK. CALL TOM You do not naadto be a SIIC atudanlto THANKYOU ST JUDE I HAVE FAITH IN Happy 18th Babellellll DAYI! FLANAGAN 
234·7350 
be a clerical. Apply nowl FORUIIOC.
AT 272·2488. YOU 
---~ 

The Observer Monday, April 21, 1986 -page 8 
Bookstore 
continuedfrompage 12 
of-15 from the field for Tequilla White lightning. Ian Larkin and Eric Bellafronto tried their best, but these two basketball players could not even hit the side ofa barn for We Can't Jam But We'll Slam Your Mama. They combined to shot a less than impressive 0-of-6. 
·-oestinailonStepan came one sfep -· closer to its goal. They defeated 4 . . . Whipped Faggots and a Homeboy by a score of 21-12. Chris Hagenow and Ed Jordanich shot an identical 5-of13 from the field to lead Destination Stepan to victory. For 4 P.W.F.A.A.H., everyone had an 

I off day shooting from the field. The best shooting percentage for the
f team was Andy Cross who made only two of his eight attempts for a
I 
hot 25 percent shooting average. 
On Sunday, there was a scare in the game between Four Fags and a Zahmbie and Challenger, Go To Fu.l Throttle. John Darrow of the Chal­lenger team was rushed to the hospi­tal after taking a bad spill while going for a rebound. Mark Sullivan, who scored eight baskets for Challenger, said that Darrowfeeling better and is home at Grace. 
Challenger, Go Full Throttle had to continue the game with only four players~"1iiillivan commented thar once they lost Darrow, the team could no longer play effective defense. 
The rest of Sunday's action was characterized by the dominate play of top seeded teams. The Embarass­ing Stains, lead by Tim Kempton, defeated the Return of Red Red Wine 21-14. Lee's BBQ also beat Shaffu by a 21-14 score. Steve Treacy scored seven baskets to lead last year's champ, Fun Bunch Finale, over O.D.,3 Throats and Some Duke by a final of 2I-I0. Pete Herbert made all of his five shooting at­tempts as Mr.Coffey and the Non­Dairy Creamers took a 21-1 5 victory from 5 Guys Without Uberty Bowl Sweats. WBBS With Ed Smerciak beat Smite-Make Someone's Day, 2I­14, as Dan Dressel made 6 of his 7 attempts from the field. Finally, The Shysters easily handled Leon Klin­ghoffer and the 4 Assasins, 21-8. 

In today's big games, Lee's BBQ, led by Jim Dolan and Steve Beuerline, faces Goldprick and the Wiretappers, who are lead by Tom Sluby, on Bookstore Court 9 at 6: 15. On Bookstore Court I 0 at 6:15, Tofu Chaka Khan will play Los Milandros. On Stephan Court I at 6:15, Hill Billies face Mr. Coffey and the Non­Dairy Creamers. On Stephan Court 6 at 6: I5, Fun Bunch Finale will play the Redwings. 

The final week begins ••. 
llen'allocll<atoN TourMment 
Saturday' a Rftulta 
s..,.n1 Emotionally Exhausted & Morally Bankrupt over Green Wienies by 2 Team Many Martoonles over One Way. 25-23 
s_.n2 Poddie Chats wtth Chulnsky over Chowder by 2 S-meover BaH Mistletoe by 11 
S..,.n3 5 WhHe Boys Who Wish To Be Admitted ... over Drunlui Against Mad Mothers by 11 Bud Melmon & the Fugitive over 4 lablas & 4 Other Guys by 13 
Stapen4 Let's Go Crazy over Better than Hot Patch by 8 Scrapping Yaps over Playing In the Snow with Michael Ray by 4 
BooketoNI 
Nutmaggers X (the Finale) over Our Best Team Ever, But We Still Suck by 9 Spud over Sycamore Robbie by 11 Skywalker & the 4 Coachman over Morning Stifliasby2 Fatback over Clueless by 13 
llocll<atoN 10 Now We GoTo School over False Sense of Pride by5 Zoota Roota Zoot over Dancing Irish Dingle Berries by4 5 Ethiopians Still Hungry to Win over Grandmaster Flash & the ..., 22·20 Still Uncoachable over Rocky's 5 by 14 Destination Stepan over 4 Pussy Whipped Fag­gots & a Homeboy by 9 
Lyona 11 Tofu Chaka Khan over F.A.Q. Again by 10 RASTA Man Vibration over You See Us, You Want Us ... by3 Taquilla WMe Lightning over We Can't Jam But We'll Slam ... by 13 Penguins in Bondage over I Have a Lovely Bunch of Coconuts ..., 22·20 
Lyona 12 Beer Flatulence over Ungeria wtth Tuna Stains by7 The H~men over Richard Cranium & 4 Other . by3 Enough Macho Meat to Make Dick ... over The Pride is Back by 6 
Suncltly'a Rftulta 
s...,.n1 Mishawaka Experienca over Corby's West by 5 Kilty & the Pussycats over The Zombies by 8 Nebbish over The Plebes by 8 Much More Manhood over Hornsbunch by 17 
Stapen2 Unidentified Grace Defenders over See the Bunggea in the Night by 4 5 Arch~ects overS. Gibbs for UMOC by 5 Shysters over Leon Kllnghoffar & the 4 Assasins by3 Josephus & the Ethiopian Shlmsham over Gnomes from Hall by 17 Open Loop Shooters over A Wheelchair & 4 Use­less Limbs ..., 24-22 
s_.n3 Fun With Small Rodent Stimulation over Painful Discharge by 4 The Old & Injured over Christa McAuiiHe & the Houston Rockets by 5 Boys of Summer over Dick Prosen by 2 Mlnahoonies over Ia that Chocolate In Your Un­derwear by 
Stapen4 Who's Next over Blood, Sweat & Salamanders by12 WBBS wtth Ed Smerclak over Smile -Make Somaone's Day by 11 . Oily BulkaWka over Balance & the Beat by 2 Murphy's law over Tylenol, Challenger & 3 other Deadly Capsules by 13 Hill's Billies over If Beads Had Played He'd Have Played for Us by 6 
S_.,n5 NADS over wa·ve Had NO Chicks by 11 4 Fags & a Zahmbie over Challenger, Go Full Throt11eby6 The Expendables over Spiders Eat Their Mates . .. by6 Whare's the Justice over Bani Lou by 4 Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers over 5 Guys WHhout Liberty ... by 6 
S!eJMonl 
Catherine the Great Meats Mr. Ed ... over Sorry About That Now ... by 5 5 White Guys Who Never Get Cheated over The Bearers of teh Holy ... by 15 Leone's Stallions over Cavanahmbies by 10 Revenge Factor over Eagles by 10 Revenge ol the Bun-faced Sea Pigs over The Geoff Potters Fan Club by 10 
Bookatora8 Fun Bunch Finale over 0.0., 3 Throats & Soma Dudeby11 Port-A-Pit over Soccer Burger by 11 Goldrick & the Wiretappers over 4 People & a Short Fat Guy by 8 The Redwings over Hey Baby, Wanna Get Trashedby6 
Booltatore 1 o The Aedwings over Hay Baby, Wanna Gat Trashedby6 6 Guys that Can't Add over Wa Are ... Who Are by7 Lea's BBQ over Shaffu by 7 
Lyona 11 Air Monyek over Armed & Dangerous Ill by 5 Embarassing Stains overThe Return of Red Red Wlneby7 
Lyona12 Los Mllandros over Bordell's Midnight by 17 Peeker Snots over Airborn Express by 3 
Today'a a..... 
S!eJMon 1 
4:45-Team Many Martoonies v. Showtime 5:30-Bet11 Lou v. Revenge Factor 
6:15 • Hill's Billies v. Mr. Coffey & the Non-Dairy Creamers 
S!eJMon 2 
4:45 ·Bud Malmon & the Fugitive Guys v. Scrap­pin' Yaps 5:30-4 Fags & a Zahmbie v. 5 White Guys Who Never Got Cheated 
8:15 ·Open Loop Shooters v. Minahoonies St.fllln3 
4:45 • Mlshawak Experience v. Unidentified Grace Defenders 
5:30 • Nebbish v. Shysters 6:15-Much Mora Manhood v. Revenge of the Bun-faCed Sea Pigs 
$1eplln4 
4:45 -Fun Wllh Small Rodent Stimulation v. 
Who's Next 5:30-The Z-Man: The Unpublished Ones v. Oily Bull haWks 
6:15 • Keenan Inmates II v. Josephus & tha Et­hiopian Shim-Sham 
Stapen5 
4:45 ·The Old & Injured v. WBBS WHh Ed Smer­clak 
5:30 -Emotionally Exhausted & Morally ... v. Poddla Chats WHh Charanko ... 6:15-Boys of Summerv. Murphy's Law 
St.penl 
4:45 
·Kitty & the Pussycats v. 5 Archnects 5:30-5 WhHa Boys Who Wish to Be Admitted .. 

v. 
Let's Go Crazy 


6:15-Fun Bunch Finale v. Radwings llocll<atoN • 
4:00 ·Expendables v. Laona's Stallions 
4:45 • Nutmaggers X(The Finale) v. Now Wa Go To School 
5:30 ·Spuds v. Dancing Irish Dingleberries 

6:15-Lea's BBQ v. Goldprick & the Wiretappers BOOkatore 10 
4:00 -Penguins in Bondage v. Enough Macho Meat To Make Dick Naugles .. 4:45-Tofu Chaka Khan v. Los Mllandros 5:30-Fatback v. Destination Stepan 
6:15 -6 Guys that Can't Add v. RASTA Man 
Vibration Lyona11 
4:45 -Skywalker & the 4 Coachmen v. 5 Et­hiopians Stili Hungry To Win 5:30-Air Monyek v. Still Uncoachables 6:15-Port-A-PH v. Lingerie With Tuna Stains 
Lyona12 4:45-T.W.L. v. Hltman 6:15-NADS v. Catherine the Great Meets Mr. Ed -the Final Encounter 
Frl~y'a Rftut1a 
The Pacers over The Condiments by 17 Revenge of the Quixotic Quint over Daqulrl Dolls by8 3 Field Hockey Players & 2 Gins v. We Drink, We Lose, We Undress by 16 Euclidean Vactorspace over The Heels by 13 Slammers II over Knit 2, Purl2, Win 1 by 18 We Thought You Only Dribbled When You Drank over Cabdrivers Last Fare y 7 We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School over 5-3 & Under by 20 Negligence over Stupid Human Tricks by forfeit Tha Almosts over 4 Geaks & a Feminist by 20 Chic Super Hoops over Austin by 20 The Fighting Chicken Patties over Swallow Your Pride, Suffer No ... by 20 
P.W. Pea Weas over Screaming Organisms by3 Slammers II over Katie's Team by 6 5 Seniors Who Wouldn't Be Mistaken For . over 4 Business Majors ... by 14 4 Frogs & a Lime over For the Helluvlt by 2 The Ladles on the Bus over Punctuation Marks by12 Voces Dames over Crooked House by 3 Please Don't Come over Flip 'n the Boobs ... by 10 Sandy, Baby & the Supremes over Flamingos W by 18 Clutching At Straws over Margarita Hoops by 16 
The Cronies over HLO by 14 Double Decker Oreos over 5 Girls by 20 We Don't Know What to Call Ourselves over Sarah, Her Roommate & 3 Other People She Pays$10,000 a year by 12 Binobis over Snoe & the Blowers by 17 Haarnisms over Flnal4 Fantasy by 14 Tha Challenger & 4 Other Balls of Fire over USA for Canada by 12 Popcorn & theJakes over We're Just Herefor the Party Afterwards by 10 4 Shots & a Chaser over Oomaret1es by 16 Hard Liquors over We Just Want to Score Once by tO 
Suncltly'a Rftulta 
Negligence over Ladles on the Bus by 13 Voce's Damas over Please Don't Come by 15 VIOlent Femmes II over Flamingos by 13 Clutching At Straws over The Cronies by 2 Double Decker Oreo Cookie over Kathleen McGuire's Team by 15 Blnobs over Haarnisms by 7 Pacers over Fighting Chicken Patties by 3 The Heals over 5 Seniors by 7 The Almosts over 5 Girls With Only 1 Ball by 17 Revenge over Popcorn by 9 The Challenger & 4 Other Balls of Fire over Take Us to Dinner ... by 13 Chic Superhoops over We Thought you Only Dribbled When You Drink by 18 
4 Shots & a Chaser over Hard Liquors by forfeit 
The Department of Communications and Theater at StMary's presents a ND/SMC Theater production of 
Conceived and originally choreographed by 
Jerome Robbins Musical Score combosed by Leonard Bernstein 
Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim 

Book by Arthur Laurents May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College For information call the box Office at 284-4626 


Oakland's jose Causeco leaps in vain for a ball btt by Min­nesota's Tom Brunansky in a game earlier last week. Oaklnad beat Seattle yesterday, 9-3. Complete scores and standings appear on page7. 
It has finally arrived .... 


The 1986 Dome 
Pick up your yearbook outside Stepan Center 
Seniors -Mon. Sophmores-Wed. 
Juniors-Tues. Freshmen -Thurs. 
Now is the time to get it I ..__aBr·ing your student I.D. __... 

BLESSED SACRAMENT FATHERS AND BROTHERS (S.S.S) 
Religiouo., cummunilie\ are a lot like ~ou and me. As we look around, "'e "iee people who resemble u~ in man) "'3)..,-ph)sical fealures, \hared feeling., and human t'\· periences, common goal\-and yet "ho are ver:~,. differenl from "'in their indi\ idualil), too. We are defined a' per\OR\ b~ lhat which Wt: share \\:ith the re~tr of people. and b~· that "·hirh distingui'ihe' U\ fmm olher,, 
In the Catholic Church there are hun­dreds of religious communitie\, or order\. These Rroups of "religiou\" men and women ha\t comt out of a common lrlldi· 
tion-,.hat Pope John Paul II lrrm> "lhe 
consecrattd life"-·and I hut. ha,·r much in common fthe H)WS, communil~ living, and a shart in lht Church's mis'iion of ~preadin2 the Kingdom of God). 
Bul each religious communil)" has something whiEh marks it out as distincl 
from the othrrs, too. This charism (or Rift of the Hoi~· Spirit) i~ each communit~··s unique ideal or spirit "hich, when added lo the whole, manifests lhe richness of lhe ptyster~: of salvation in Jesus Christ. H is fitted, like a single piece of colore-d stone in­to a mosaic, to form part of the bigJ!,er pic­lure of Jesus ChrisI toda~·. 
The Congregation of the Blessed Sacra­ment (or the Blessed Sacrament Fathers and 
Brothe11i) is a relatively '1ew and small com­
munity among the Church's religious 
orders. The Congregation was founded in 
the vear 1856 bv Saini Peter-Julian 
Eyma.rd, popularly known as "the Apostle of Ihe Eucharist," lo promote awareness of and appreciation for the eucharistic Presence of the risen Lord. l'rom its hum­
ble beginnings in Paris. France, the Con­
gretz:alion today numbers 1200 members in approximately 34 nations worldwide. God ha"' bl('~\l'd IJ,c \o\Ork nf lhe Congre~alion t•normou~h :~ ih rirlil renrun -and~a­quarler of. life and labor on behalf or lbe 
Kingdom. 
Whal dh;tin~uishe.'i lhe Rle.'ised Sacra­ment f"athers and Bro1her~ is their inlense lme for I he Eucharisl. Certainl~. lhe F.urharist belongs to the enlirr Churrh, but the Priesls and Brolhers of the Congrega­tion ha·1e accepted Rspecial charge from the Church lo be contemporar~ apostles of I he F.uckarist and of eucharistic livinjit. The The Rult of l.ife puts il this way: "Our ideal is 
lo live ttw Eucharistic M~·ster~· to the fullesl and lo m•ke clear its significance so lhatlhr Kingdom of Christ ma)· come•..." (I) 
/.il'inx the Eucharistic \fystt'ry to its fullest means developing ever~ possible dimension of lhe Eucharist. Through a love for lhe Lilurg~ and for prayer beforf' the 
Blessed Sacrament, through a life of 
brotherly concern in communil~·. and lhrouRh a life of srrvice and of dedicalion to justice and peace, Blessed Sacrament Fathers and Brolhen seek to show all of us 
ho" fulfilling and demanding life lived in 
lhe light of the Eucharisl can be! 
The Congregation of the Blessed Sacra­
ment has nine local communities through­
out the Uniled Stales. Since coming to New Ynrk City In 1900, lhe Blessed Sac..!llent Fathers and Brothers have expanded their 
wilness and minlslry to Chicago, Cleveland, Albuquerque, San Antonio, Sail 
l..ake City, and other cities and Iowns. The fire of eucharistic zeal still burns in the hearls of those who have followed in the 
footsteps or Saint Peter-Julian Eymard. 
New generations of aposlles of the F.ucharisl continue his work and inspira­lion. so lhat all Chrislians might be more genuinely men and women of the Eucharist. 
Eucharist is our Gift . .. >Ou can live it for life! 
'l". Brotht'r Rt h.·r• 7.L't'l!l'r'>. "\.~.~. Voc.·atiPn Coonhnat:u I.U:' W. Hurri•on ~t. Chil·t~gu. IL Ollht'"~ 

________\lalc: __Zip: ___ 
\e\, I am mll'n.·sh,•d in infnrm:uion ahnUI Thc.· Blc!<.'iCd \:tl'f:111lt'OI r~uht'l"\ and Brother.. I \\.llUkllikc to kno\\ uhtltll ~~~urctlnlnlllnit~\ Fuc.·humtit·lift' and mi\!.itln. 
.\1\ ~mn,• --------------
Addr~,,: _______________ 
0 i•ka,~· ....:nd lllL' lllhlrllWII,lll 
0 Pka''-" ph1II1L" llll.' .11 .\r\!,1 C"1lt.h.' ~---'---­
~The Blessed Sacrament Fathers and Brothers 
PhORl' 012) 24."\·7400 


The Observer Monday, April21, 1986-page 9 
-
' J 
' ...........,F............_.....,.._..
.. 
' 

.. • • l'. •, : ' 
ret'ff,;.·~. 

Tbc Oboervcr/Bob Jonn 

Steve Beuerleln, sbown rolling out during spring practice, was named Notre Dame's top quarterback by Irisb bead coacb Lou Holtzfollowing Saturday's scrimmage. Marty Strase bas details on Holtz' decision and tbe scrimmage In bls story beginning on page 
ll. 

e 
Town and Country Iorber Shop, Mllhawak optU\9-6, Mon.-sat. 

CHR S' ICE CREAM 
The Second Annual Chris' Ice Cream Eating Contest 

APRIL 23 ·MAY 4 Dorm that eats the most ice cream 
will win 
10'/,qfTOTAL PROFIT 
Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
'lft~!~ICQU?_~~ 


NHL playoffs 
Capitals must keep hitting 
As8odated Press 

NEW YORK -Despite a one-sided victory over the New York Rangers in Game 2 of their National Hockey League playoff series, the Was­hington Capitals say they'll have to keep hitting if they want to win tonight's third game. 
"If we don't come out with fire in our eyes, it will be a tough game," Washington right wing Craig Laugh­lin said as the best-of-seven Patrick Division finals at Madison Square Garden. 
Washington's resounding 8-l vic­tory at the Capital Centre in Lan­dover, Md., Saturday night tied the series at 1-l and featured some of the toughest checking the Capitals have done in the playoffs so far. It erased memories of Thursday night's 4-3 overtime loss to the Rangers after which Washington Coach Bryan Murray accused his team ofplaying soft hockey. 
"We told our players to bump their defensemen," Murray said. "When we hit, we gel: involved and we score. No doubt, bodychecking was the key. We have to continue that. We have to think of Monday night's game as the critical one for us.u 
Hitting is also a key for the Rangers, who must rebound from their worst beating ofthe playoffs so far. But they rebounded from a 7-1 loss to Philadelphia in the fourth game of their first-round series to win the decisive game on the road. 

Zoeller wins Heritage golf tourney 
As8odated Press 

HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. ­Fuzzy Zoeller went leaping in the air when a 72nd-hole birdie found the cup and made him a one-stroke win­ner yesterday in the Sea Pines Heritage Classic. 
Zoeller, who blew a two-shot lead with a double bogey on the first hole, capped his comeback with the 12-to 15-foot birdie putt under the shadow ofthe red-and-white striped lighthouse. 
That got him back to par 71 for the struggling round, lifted him out of a multiple-man tie for the top and provided him with his second vic­tory of the season. 
Zoeller, bad back and all, took a skipping step as the ball neared the hole, then went airborne as it dropped in. 
It completed a 72-hole total of 276, 8 under par on the Harbour Town Golf Links, and left Australian 
"It takes a little bit ofsteam out of us," New York goaltender john Van­biesbrouck said. "They're going to gain confidence from this, and we realize that. They had a pretty relent­less forecheck, banging our defen­semen, banging our forecheckers. 
"They were very tenacious and they got those breaks early and then they got confidence and more con­fidence. After a blowout like this, you have to look for the positive. The bright side is we got a split in Washington, but now we've got to come back and take two in New York." 
Montreal also evened its series with Hartford, as Guy Carbonneau scored two goals to lead the Canadiens to a 3· l victory at the Montreal Forum. That series shifts to Hartford tonight. 
In last night's games, 
Maple Leafs 3, Blues 0 
ST. LOUIS · Peter Ihnacak banged in a second-period rebound and Tom Fergus tipped in a second­period power-play goal, leading the Toronto Maple Leafs to a 3·0 tri­umph last night over the St. Louis Blues behind Ken Wregget's goal­tending to tie their NHL playoff series at a game apiece. 
Borje Salming scored Toronto's other goal with a shot into an open net with 1:13 remaining. Wregget kicked out 35 shots to record his first NHL playoffshutout. 

Monday' April 21 4 pm Memorial Library Auditorium 
~------------------------~ 


Sports Illustrated II
______________________________________________________________ti 
Come see his spectacular Sports video presentation and catch a glimpse of this we~k's 
Greg Norman, Chip Beck and Roger Maltbie waiting for a playoff that suddenly became unnecessary. 
Zoeller's ninth career victory · and his second in this elite event ­was worth J81,000 from the total purse of $450,000 and pushed Zoel­ler's earnings for the season to $221,335, third on the list.. 
Norman, also a· runner-up in the Masters a week ago, Maltbie and Beck tied for second at 277. Maltbie had a dosing round of 69. Norman had a 70. And Beck birdied the 18th for a 70. 
jay Haas, in the title chase untll the final hole, matched par 71 and was another stroke back at 278. 
He was followed by Ray Floyd, Tom Kite and Ken Green at 279. None really got in the hunt, and moved up only with fast finishes. Green birdied the last three holes for a 67. Kite had the same. And Floyd shot 66 in the mild, breezy overcast weather. 
Game 3 of the best-of-seven Nor­ris Division final will be played tomorrow night in Toronto. 
By winning, the Maple Leafs snapped a 13-game winless streak on St. Louis ice. Ihnacak opened scoring at 9: 14 of the second period and Fergus scored 1 5 minutes later by tipping in Salming's shot. 
lhnacak picked up a rebound of Greg Terrion's blocked shot to beat sprawling Blues goalie Greg Millen. Fergus' goal, at 4:56 of the final period, came as Blues defenseman Charlie Bourgeois was attempting to tie both him and Toronto right wing Rick Valve up in front of Millen. 
Toronto, while dominating a con­test marked by close checking and numerous player altercations, won for the first time on Arena ice since prevailing 6-3 on Feb. 17, 1983. They were 0-11-2 during the long drought. 
Oilers 6, Flames 5 
EDMONTON -Glenn Anderson scored at I :04 of overtime to give the Edmonton Oilers a 6-5 decision over the Calgary Flames last night to deadlock their NHL smythe Division finals at one victory apiece. 
Anderson took a short pass from 
Dave Lumley, cut to the front of the 
net and pushed a backhand shot into 
the corner. 
Games 3 and 4 of the best-of­seven series will be played in Cal­gary tomorrow and Thursday nights. 
Bernhard Langer of West Ger­many, the defending title-holder, went to a 75 -10 shots higher than his Saturday score-and finished well back at 285. 
Zoeller, a two-shot leader going into the round, lost that when he drove deep into' the woods on the first hole, required four strokes to reach the putting surface and even­tually made double bogey. 
He also made bogey on the third hole and reached the turn in 39. At that point, he was three shots behind Roger Maltbie. 
"I almost let it get out of reach," Zoeller said, "but this is the type of golf course that nobody is going to run away with it." 
He made a long putt, perhaps 30 feet, for birdie on the 11th. Maltbie bogeyed the 14th, missing the green, and Zoeller was back in it when he threw a soft little shot inside ofa foot for a tap-in birdie mo­ments later on the same hole. 


Passer 
continuedfrom page 12 
"At this point our main concern is protecting the passer.lt's all a matter of consistency on the offensive line and pass protection is essential If we're going to win." 
The Irish round out the 1986 spring with their final week of practice, culminating in the annual Blue-Gold game on Saturday at 1:30. Holtz and his coaching staff will divide the players for the game eit­her tomorrow or Wednesday. 
"(The Blue-Gold game) is for war," Holtz said. "That's a com­pletely different story from a scrimmage. This scrimmage was good in that we needed to get a little competition, and I think we ac­complished some things. But next weekend is for real." 
EXTRA POINTS -Senior tailback Hiawatha Francisco, who under­went arthroscopic knee surgery over the off season and was ex­pected to be sidelined during spring workouts, caught an eight-yard pass in Saturday's scrimmage·: Holtz removed him immediately after­wards, however, saying he "will take no chances." 

r The Observer 
I 
I 
I 
ND track finishes 2nd I I I at intercollegiate meet 
I 
By EDJORDANICH
I I Sports writer 
I 
The Notre Dame track team finished second to Indiana State in! the Indiana Intercollegiate meet run 
I 
on Saturday at the IU-PUI track in In­I dianapolis.
I 
The Irish totaled 129 points for
I 
the meet which left them 38 points
I 
behind the Sycamores and ahead of
I 
Indiana, Purdue and Ball State in the
I 
twenty team competition.
I I I The Irish had several individual I winners for the day. They included I Tom War.tl, who ran 30:54 to win I the 10,000-meter race, and Rick I Mulvey whose 9:12 3,000-meter 
steeplechase earned him first place honors. Mulvey's time also qualified him for the IC4A Championships in late May. 
Saturday was also a good day for Irish sprinters. Phil Gilmore won the 100-meter dash in 10.64 seconds and set a new meet record in the process. He was followed closely by fellow runner Tony Ragunas who finished in third place, .06 of a 

Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
and did the little thigs well," remarked O'leary. "On defense Mike Rice, Wally Stack and Jim Fallon all came up with the big plays when we needed them. Also, goalkeeper Matt McQuillan had some very important saves for us at the end ofthe game." 
"Overall, we played quite well throughout the entire game. Our guys were very aggressive and passed well to the open man. Last year Denison embarrassed us. Our kids came out knowing what they had to do which was to be aggressive and to run hard and they did it." 
The Irish started quickly, as Franklin scored his first goal at 12:19 In the first quarter. After senior co­captain Tom Grote scored, Franklin followed with another goal off of a beautiful assist from junior Jim Shields to give the Irish a 3·0 lead. 

Forfeit 
continuedfrom page 12 
~ 
Sunday to We Weren't Cheerleaders In High School. Shooting Back, last year's bookstore champions with field hockey player Christina Wein­nman, Improved the team sig­nificantly with the addition of former Irish star Trena Keys. Keys Jed the Irish women to two straight I North Star Conference titles on her 
I way to becoming the all-time scoring leader for Notre Dame, with a total of 1,589 points In her career. 
"We didn't know we had a game," Welnnman explained the forfeit. "It was a misunderstanding." 
The women's title goes up for grabs with the removal of Shooting Back from the tourney. The new favorite would have to be second­seeded and last year's runner-up, Revenge of the Quixotic Quint. The Quint had an easy time this weekend with victories over the Daiquiri Dolls and Popcorn and the Jakes. 
l 
I Fourth-seeded The Almosts glided over 4 Geeks and a Feminist and 5 Girls with just one ball. Un­
ranked Double Decker Oreo CookieI were merciless In victories over 5 People 'Qualified' to Talk About Sex
I 
and We Don't Know What to Call
I 
Ourselves. Talent and Intensity puts Oreo Cookie among the heavy favorites, especially with the demise
f ofShooting Back. In another surprise, the Fighting Chicken Patties fell to the Pacers, 
t 18-21. Balanced scoring from the Regina hall crew edged the heavy favorite Lewis halllnterhall champs. 
second behind Gilmore. Both sprinters qualified for the IC4A's. 
Gilmore and Ragunas also ran well in the 200-meter race, finishing second and third respectively. 
Javelin thrower Brian Driscoll scored points in the field with a throw of 194 feet, 3 inches to win the event. Freshman John Euster­mann was fifth, and junior Steve DeMartino was sixth in the javelin. 
Three runners placed in the BOO­meter race. John McNelis' 152:3 gave him the runner-up spot, and Robert Nobles and Jeff Van Wie earned fourth and fifth place finishes. Senior Jim Tyler was third in the 1,500-meter with a time of 3:49. 
Notre Dame relay teams had a couple of top three finishes in In­dianapolis. The 4 by 100 team of Ragunas, Van Pearcy, Gilmore, and James McGuire was third and the 4 by 400 team of Nobles, McNelis, Tyler and Dave Warth finished second in its race. 
Next Friday and Saturday the Irish will be in Des Moines, Iowa, for the Drake Relays. 
Denison fought back and tied the 
score at 3·3 on a goal byJay Duggan 
with 1:42 remaining in the quarter. 
Grote, however, scored his second 
goal of the quarter with 29 seconds 
left to give the Irish a 4-3 advantage 
at the end ofthe period. 
Denison seemed to pick up some momentum at the beginning of the second quarter as they scored two quick goals with Judd Donnelly picking up the final tally. But the day belonged to Franklin, who coun­tered both goals with two of his own. The last coming on a sensa­tional spin move to the goal with 
7:35 left In the quarter to make it 6­5. 
Denison came back with two more unanswered goals to take a 7-6 lead, but after sophomore Tom Lanahan found Jim Shields, the Irish never trailed in the contest. At halftime the Irish led 9·7 as freshman John Olmstead and junior Dave O'Neill both placed shots In the net offofterrific passes from Grote. 
Just as he started out the scoring in the early moments in the first 
Thankstoyou... itworks... 
Monday, April 21, 1986 -page 10 


Atlanta's Dominique Wilkins tries to block a tbe NBA's regular season scoring leader, bad 50 sbot by Chicago's MtcbaeiJordan In a game earlier points in tbeHawks' win overtbePiston's on Satur­tbts season. jordan scored 63 points in tbe Bull's day. double-overtime Joss to Boston yesterday. Wilkins, 
forALLOFU 
quarter, Joe Franklin built the Irish 
lead to I0-7 as he tallied with only 
15 seconds elapsed in the quarter. 
Two more Denison goals closed out 
the scoring in the third quarter 
which saw the Irish cling to a slim 
10-9 advantage. 
The final quarter saw the Irish jump out to a 12-9 lead on a goal by Lanahan from Franklin. Denison scored again to make it 12-10, but the Irish scored twice more to put the game out ofreach and win a very important Midwest battle. After the game, Franklin was optimistic about therest ofthe season. 
"It was a great win for us. We worked together real well," said Franklin. Hopefully, the rest of the season we can stick it out." 
Teammate Tom Grote was also happy with the the win and his teammates' play. 
"This was the best game we've had all season. Our attackers were able to put away all their oppor­tunities," said Grote. "We waited all season for them (Denison) and today we met the task" 
\Aha•
Unl-.ct ..._
s 
• 
=··············································· i12 Medium PIZZA (anvtopping)f
!
•
•
i
•
•
!
•
:
•
• 
·=·· 
•
f ! 
with extra cheese •
• PLUS !• 
•

Garlic Bread with cheese i
•
Delivery Orders Only : (plus delivery and tax)






$5.25 • •··=· 
•
Limited Delivery Area 
5 

-"•to• ~ ~ i 

i \-~f/3°  ~Pizza  !  
:••• ::  c,O  52929 u.s.lll'bth........,_.....,___..__  : •• ::  
i  277-5880  i  
!  GoodforSundaysandMondays  i  
:  only .,ith coupon  :  


e•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••I 


Student Government 



~~.cll.at~-----------------------------------------M-o_n_d_a_y,_A_p_rt-·1_2_1,_1_9_8_6_-_P_ag_e_l__
l 

Bloom County 
MY fKI~/oi{J~ /011 GOP.. IE~ 

MY fR!tiWS / MlfHIN& YOVI? f!?fetl~ 
MR. PIII.LIIS... 
9etr!f? 1lJ tiff1H6 ~~~ H6Ke 1rJ 
Sf'IRIT-' OFII ttffiN IN fi6&}-W. f'HYSfCI/t C/?15/S -niiiN If SlfOW Of t.IJYIItfY 8Y HIS 
COMPIIfJR~S / 

Zeto 
ACROSS 1 Freight boat 5 Simon's 
"-Suite" 10 Satisfy 14 River in 
Brazil 15 Emulate 16 Rounded part 17 Dill old style 18 Gr. letter 19 Baking 
compartment 20 One who takes 
umbrage 22 Shoots one 
stroke over 24 Hollow stem 25 Keep-on 
(watch) 26 Arrow stems 29 -and again 30 Small change 33 Famed Southern 
home 34 Double 37 Misdeeds 39 Devoured 40 Thrill 41 Property 44 Novelist 
Gardner 45 Navy man: abbr. 46 Contest with 
seconds 47 Butted 49 Just 50 Fr. head 51 Current 54 Bottle for 
serving wine 58 Plenty to 
poets 59 Public 61 Loose robe 62 Las Vegas 
items 63 Wash cycle 64 Above 65 Fragrance 
1 
66 Located 67 For fear that 
DOWN 1 Shadowbox 2 Malacca 

Campus 
•4 
P.M. -ftlm/lecture, Jesus Trevino, film director/producer/writer, 282 Galvin Ufe­Science Center, Sponsored by Helen KeUogg Institute, free 

•4 
P.M. -lecture, Philip Bess, Notre Dame, Haggar Hall, Sponsored by School of Ar­chitecture 

•7 
P.M.-presentadon, "Juniors: Learn How to Fill Out Your Profile Form", Kitty Arnold, Director, Career and Placement Servicex, 118 



1986 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All Aigh1s Reserved 
3 Crude metals 4 Cascade 5 Remonstrate 6 Cemented 7 Declare 
strongly 8 Move in a way 9 Montgomery's state 

10 Heavy shoes 
11 Alfection 
12 Yield 
13 Urges 
21 After expenses 
23 Pudgy 
25 Asian country 
26 Metric unit 
27 Refuge 
28 Opera solos 
29 Complete 
30 Beguile 42 Candidates 
31 Novel's name for marriage 
32 Pegasus lor 43 Raised one 48 Luzon native 35 Irrigate 49 Not so many 36 Basic l'iO Laconic 38 Car style 51 Make over 
4/21/86 
52 Geraint's wife 53 Comic James 54 Nick or notch 55 Board or bag 56 Selves 57 Entranced 60 7 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
~-21 © 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 
Kevin Walsh 

"You call this a niche?" 
Nieuwland HaU, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, 
•7:30 
P.M. -lecture, Peter Walshe, Notre Dame, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition, 

•8 
P.M. -play, "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf', Washington Hall Lab Theatre, Sponsored by Communications and Theatre Department, free 



Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Braciole with Brown Sauce Stir Fry Chicken & Vegetables 
Fettucini Alfredo Vegetable Cheese Pita 

TV Tonight 



6P.M. 
6:30P.M. 
7P.M. 
7:30P.M. 
8 P.M. 

16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 WS]V Newswatch 28 34 MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour 46 Jim & Tammy 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 
with PeterJennings 16 MASH 22 Three's Company 28 jeopardy 34 Nightly Business Repon 46 700Ciub 16 Barney Miller 22 The New Newlywed Game 28 Wheel ofFortune 34 Market to Market 
16  You Again?  
22  The  Opening  of AI  Capone's  
Mystery Vault  

8:30P.M. 9 P.M. 
10 P.M. 11 P.M. 
28  Hardcastle & McCormick  
34  Pride  of  Place:  Building  the  
American Dream  
46  Lester Sumrall Teaching  
16  Valerie  
46  Calvary Temple  

16 The Television Academy Hall of Fame 28 General Foods Golden Showcase 34 American Playhouse: A flash of Green 46 Lesea Alive 
22 Cagney & Lacey 
46 Music ofCompassion 
16 NewsCenter 16 
22 22 Eyewitness News 
28 WSJV Newswatch 28 
34 Body Electric 
46 Praise the Lord 

Thanks toyou... 
forALLOFUS
itworks... 


LITTLE 
Y? 
Activities Board Movies and Publicity Commission 
It pays! 



s~ 0 rts 
Monday,April21, 1986-page 12 



Men's and women's Bookstore enter final week 
Seeded teams Women's field playing strong down to sweet 16 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
The third round has ended. There are only Surptising serious first and second-round sixty four teams left that have a shot to be play opened the women's bookstore basket­crowned champions of Bookstore Basketball ball tournament this weekend. Highly physi­
XV. Starting tomorrow, the tournament will cal play and terrible weather made the battle play one round per day with no games being from 62 to the finall6 teams all the more diffi­played on Thursday. By Sunday, we will have cult. our champion. But that's not to say there were not some 
This weekend's action produced no major light moments. upsets as all of the pre-tournamnent favorites 4 Frogs and a Umey took creative costum­won their contests. ing beyond the ubiquitous Hawaiian shorts 
On Saturday, last year's freshmen sensation, look. In the game against For the Helluvit, the Tofu Chaka Khan, used a combination of Frogs sponed a large green paper amphibian balanced scoring and sharp passing to defeat on their backs as a means of identification. 
F.A.Q. Again 21-11. Shawn Hoban and Jim They completed their uniform with parisian scarf ensembles. The lone Umey modeled Union Jack running shorts and a paper citrus
Bookstore fruit. The 4 Frogs and a Umey partisans added to
Basketball 
the foreign atmosphere ofthe game by leading the crowd in French cheers and occasionally slipped into English to offer helpful sugges­tions. For the Helluvit fought back valiantly, 

Welsh led the tast break offense ofTofu Chaka but the Frogs, even without the home team's Khan which proved much too quick for the advantage, held onto a 21-19 victory to ad­
slower F.A.Q. Again team. Hoban, Bill Zidell vance to the second round. and Matt Hanley had five buckets apiece for Yesterday's rain scared away the Frogs, the winners. Mark Bridenstine and Tim Hil­however, as they forfeited toP.W.'s Pee Wees. 
lenbrand each scored four times for F.A.Q. The PeeWees advanced to the second round Again. with a 21-18 victory over Screaming Or­Also on Saturday, Tequilla White Ughtnlng ganisms led by Cathy Schaeffer's 9 points. 
handily defeated We Can'tJam But We'll Slam The bookstore women's field almost com­Your Mama by a final score of 21-8. Chris pletely opened up Sunday when the highly Nanni and Chris Carlson combined to shot 12-favored Shooting Back team forfeited its game 
see BOOKSTORE, page 8 see FORFEIT, page 10 

Holtz names Beuerlein top QB heading to Blue-Gold game 
By MARlY STRASEN 
AssistantSports Editor 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz has made a key decision regarding his team's quanerback situation. He had vowed earlier in the 1986 spring season to name a number­one quanerback before the upcoming Blue­Gold game. 
That decision was announced after Saturday's scrimmage in Notre Dame Stadium -Steve Beuerlein is the man. 
"I felt going into this scrimmage that Steve Beuedein was number one," Holtz said. "He moved the ball well and didn't make a lot of mistakes today. 
"I thought Terry Andrysiak played well also, but right now Steve is number one because of the overall control he gives us. He throws the ball well, moves the ball well and knows how to handle a team." 
Beuerlein, a junior, combined with sop­homore Terry Andrysiak to lead the blue team in a 39-7 romp over the white team in a scrimmage that was played under game condi­tions. And while Beuerlein moved the blue team downfield seemingly at will, it was sop­homore flanker Tim Brown who stole much of the show. 
Brown, lining up in the backfield when the wishbone offense was used, carried the ball 1 0 times for 13 5 yards, a pair of touchdowns and added three receptions. 
"Our receivers had a very good scrimma2e," Holtz said. "Reggie (Ward), Milt 
Spring Football '86 
Qackson), Alvin (Miller) and Timmy (Brown) all played well. What can you say about Timmy Brown. He's a Notre Dame man in all respects." 
Brown took a Beuerlein pitch into the end zone on a 13-yard scoring play in the first quarter to cap off a 60-yard drive and open the scoring. But the real fireworks began in the second frame for Brown, after freshman Mark Green boosted the first-quarter score to 13-0 when he went over the top on a fourth down and goal from the one-inch line. 
In the ·first minute of the quarter, Brown took a pitch from Andrysiak at his own 35­yard line and headed for the outside. Green provided the first block when he took out a pair ofdefenders and allowed Brown to get to the sideline. Senior receiver Miller made the final block, and Brown used his speed to breeze past everyone on a 65-yard touch­down scamper. 
The white team scoredits onlypoints ofthe scrimmage when junior quarterback Tom Byrne connected on a six-yard touchdown pass to sophomore Kurt Zackrison, usually an outside linebacker. 
The third and final quaner saw more domination by the blue squad, which was -composed of most of the frontrunners for starting jobs in the fall. 
Beuerlien found senior fullback Pernell Taylor open on a roll-out pattern for a five­yard score, and then Green scored his second touchdown of the day when he took an Andrysiak handoff over the goal line from the 
12. Taylor finished the day with 44 yards on nine carries while Green ran the ball six times for 34 yards. 
Fittingly, Beuerlein finished the scoring on the last play of the day when he teamed up with Miller on a 14-yard touchdown. 
Holtz was pleased with his team's progress and still sees the offensive line as crucial to his squad's chances for success. 
"Overall, I saw some good progress made," he said. "I was pleased with our ability to eliminate the lost yardage and I thought the hitting was awful good on defense. There were some great hits from (Wally) KJeine, (Robert) Banks and (Cedric) Figaro. I think we have an idea of what we have to do and that's important. 
see PASSER, page 9 
Tbe Notre Dame lacrossse team defeated Denison 14-11,Saturday, toratsettsrecord to 7-2(2-0in tbe Midwest lacrosse Association) Frank Huemmer 

ND lacr~sse wi~s 7th .J by downing Denison 
By FRANK HUEMMER this against Washigton and Lee ear­Sports Writer lier in the season," said O'Leary. "This game we were able to play 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team well and do it for the whole game. I took a tremendous step toward the think our kids worked extremely Midwest Lacrosse Association hard." crown by defeating Denison, the In the process of the victory, the 1985 MLA champions, 14-11, on Irish all-time scoring mark was shat­
Alumni Field Saturday for its fifth­tered by senior joe Franklin. straight win. The upset victory saw Franklin, who scored six goals on the Irish, who raised their season the afternoon, broke Bob Trocchi's record to 7-2 (2-0 in the MLA), turn career mark of 14 3 points with his in their best performance of the first goal. He now has accumulated season, as they played near perfect 150 total points on 112 goals, 24 offense and defense for the entire coming in this season, and 38 assists gan in the 60 minutes of action with nine already this year. against the Big Red from Denison. Besides Franklin's outstanding 
The game was characterized by performance, Coach O'Leary singled very aggressive and inspired play by out the performances of several ot­the well-prepared Irish squad. Notre her key Irish players. 

Dame head coach Rich O'Leary "Franklin and (Tom) Grote both bas tbe details oftbe team's big win In bts story at summed up the important victory in played well together, as they scored rlgbt. this manner. 
see IRISH, page 10 "We came close to playing like 








Give to Goodwill 
To maintain full employment...Goodwill needsyourdonaUons of usable discards now! Please fill your grocery or plastic bag with your donations today! Bring your donations to your Goodwill store, put them into a convenient collection box or ca/1234-1740 or 674-5136 to schedule a free home pickup. Goodwill needs: clothes, shoes, dolls, 
......~.... toys, books, records, 
e 
housewares, dishes, pots and 
pans, fabric, jewelry, drapes, 
furniture in good repair and 
mattresses and box springs 
......~rTt 

Collection Box Locations 
South Bend 
Broad moor 
Marycrest Store Martin's Park N Shop Plaza Store 

Mishawaka 
University Mall 
Niles 
Goodwill Store 

Goshen 
Kroger's Linway Plaza 24 Hour Mart 
(closed) Goodwill Store 

Elkhart 
K-Mart Kroger's Martin's Martin's Pierre Moran Mall Goodwill Store 

Lakeville 
Annis Grocery 
LaPaz 
Annis Grocery 


Plymouth 
Marshall Savings BJ's Antiques Murphy's Mart 
Save for future use . 

4400 S. Miami (located across from Scottsdale entrance) 1805 Western Avenue 17970 St. Rd. 23 Georgetown Shopping Center Howard & Eddy Streets 
Located by Osco Drugs 
109 N. Main 

201 Chicago Street 616 W. Lincoln Ave. (Linway Foods) US33 West 
220 S. Main 
Concord Mall 1720 Fulton 720 W. Bristol 909 Goshen Avenue Hively /Benham 1632 S. Nappanee 
123 S. Michigan 
US 31 
800 LWE 119 S. Center 2001 N. Michigan 


~-· ~ _·.1 
.-.......·_.4,.4~" :r ' .... -""• = -~
',-c. .. >='~• •
'I'
·--,; ~·--. IIHI~ t· -· , -_!!..,.,, ..,~,-.• 
• ! -,~· .·~ ·~ :.., 
-.. ;·. --. -f '•·' 
... 
•• r-J~ ~ i 
-,_. 
I 
} 
·­

VOL.IX N0.5 
-~ 

SUMMER 1988 



Danson & Mandel, 

A 
COLUMBIA PICTURES PRESENTS 
BLAKE EDWARDS' "A FINE MESS" 

TED DANSON HOWIE MANDEL RICHARD MULLIGAN STUART MARGOLIN 
MARIA CONCHITA ALONSO JENNIFER EDWARDS AND PAUL SORVINO 
sco~~s~~ HENRY MANCINI p.fJ~~Rt HARRY STRADLING ~ffuWc!rUONATHAN D. KRANE 1:\ PG PARENTAL GUIDANCE SUGGESTEOGJ PRODUCWTONY ADAMS 'b%.V~~Ns\! BLAKE EDWARDS I) IE I. 18 li I .. 
SOME MATERIAL MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR CHILDREN ® )ORIGINAL SOUNDTRACK ALBUM AVAILABLE ON MOTOWN RECORDS AND CASSE1TES) •-to<.UMOI•~:,::;:::r=: 'i:C:: 
OPENS MAY 16 AT SELECT THELITRES. 
PUBLISHER Alexander Auerbach 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Chartotte Wolter 
CREATIVE DIRECTOR Chip Jones 
PRODUCTION MANAGER 
Barbara Harris ART DIRECTOR Molly Ruttan 
ASSOC. ART DIRECTOR Jack Claeys 
PRODUCTION ASST. Adam Steman 
PUBLISHING ASSISTANTS Susan M. Alves Gina Renee Gross Albert Pang Rick B. Wilder 
CIRCULATION SUPERVISOR Jocelyn E. Hogan 
ADVERTISING OFACES 
LOS ANGELES 
303 N. Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600 Burbank. CA, 91502 
(818) 848-4666 
WESTERN REG. SALES MGR. DaveErb 
ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE Pat Parlns 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
John Kahanowlcz 
NEW YORK 
250 Filth Ave., Surte 403 NY, NY. 10001 
(212) 696·0994 
EASTERN REG. SALES MGR. Rob Burton 
ACCOUNT EXECUTIVES Cindy VIncent Robert Aronson 
CHICAGO PUBLISHER'S REP 
Harry Sherman 152 W. Huron St. Chicago, Ill. 60610 
(312) 751·1767 
DETROIT PUBLISHER'S REP 
Martin T. Toohey 
(313) 643-7797 
•1986 Alan W..ton Put>lsl>ng. adivision of Alllll Weston Communications, Inc., PRESIDENT Jefr Olckoy PRESIDENT OF BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT Randy AcMe AU rigtlta ~. (ISSN 06ll5·9469) l.otters booomolllO P'Oil«1Y of lh<>pu-and may be odltOd. Publollller ~but osaumeo no responslbiUty for 
lMl$010ciled manuscrlp••· PubllsllOO """ times during the 
ochool year. AnnooJ 8Ub&criploon rote Is $18. To l;J(dQf 8Ub8cription11 cw noll1y of ct>aogo of address, Wlite Ampersand College e-..rnmont Guide, Alan W..lon C<>rnmuricatlons, Inc , 303 N. Glenoaks Bl., Suite 000, Burbank. CA, 91502. (818) 946-4666. 


(Above) Weather Report's Joe Zawinful has been called "a regular guy, who just happens to be amu.... sicaIgenius." After ayear with Weather Report, he's out on his own with asolo album. 
(Left) John Hughes has captured the imagination and the dollars of America's youthful filmgoers. Read our profile of the man who has become the filmmaker to the young. (Below) Hughes' newest film, Ferris Beu/ler's Day Off, about high schoolers who cut class for aday on the town, is just one of the exciting summer releases detailed in "Calendar." 


SHORT SUBJECTS 

4 o WEATHER REPORT'S JOE ZAWINFUL 
Ycm prohahly ktwu• his music better than bis name. 1be creatit•eforce he hind the most popularjazz ensemble of the last decade shares bz~~ uiews on rock 'n 'roll, tbe music industry and Sting 

6 o TOPGUN 
Uy Jimmy Summers. In Top Gun, 11mt Cmise plays a Nat•y.f~ving ace wbo sets bis sights on success as 01w r!f' their elite .fighter pilots, the 11Jp Gunners. 
8 o MUSICAL NOTES 
/~)'Greg Ptacek. Alltbe neu•s ahout u•bo :~on tour, u•bo ~­hack in tbe studio and wbo sI/01! 
12 o JOHN HUGHES: Making the Movies Young People Love 
By Mm·k Cbristemen· From tbe National Lampoon to mouie mogul, a projile of tbe mew u•ho is arguah/J• to· days boltestjilmmaker. 
14 o SUMMER FILM PREVIEW 
A rotmdujJ qftbe coolest.filmsJi;r bot summer et•eni11gs. 

18 o CALENDAR 
Complete listings ofupcoming major.film release.\~ hantl lour.,~ hooks a/1{/ teleuisirm features. 
PHOTO CREDITS, COVER: DOUGLES KIRKLAND (SIGOURNEY WEAVER) LARRY BARBIER/LORIMAR (AMERICAN ANTHEM) PARAMOUNT PICTURES CORP. (JOHN HUGHES) WARNER BROS. RECORDS (CHRISSIE HYNDE) WARNER BROS. (CLUB PARADISE) 

FOCUS AWARDS 
T 
he deadline for the annual FOCUS Awards lor student filmmakers is May 2, I9H6. FOCUS is one of the most prestigious student lilm contests; past FOCUS winners include director AI Magnoli (Purple l<ain) and John Fusco I II, who won in 19H4 for the screenplay for the current film Cmssroad~.. Entry forms can be obtained from FOCUS, 1140 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York, I00~6. Phone: (212) ';7)-0270. 

COPS AND ROBBERS 
Y 
Oll 've seen the clothes and heard the music Now you can play the Miami 
Vice game. The popular television ever there wa~ one, now has its own board game. While we can't vouch that they've captured "all the action and ex· cilement of the TV show," (as the manu­facturer's promotions claim), we can tell you that their exhibit at the recent New York Toy Fair featured Crockett and 'I\.1bbs "look-alike actors" accompanied by a pair of bikini-clad "escorts." 


HARD SELL 
S 
peaking of marketing, even colleges are joining the bandwagon of ag· grcssive salesmanship these days. Morningside College in Sioux City, Iowa is offering free room and board to appli· cants who rank in the upper 40% of their high school class, have combined SAT's 
or its six bordering states. 
The goal is to expand the college's rep­utation beyond its local area. "Few peo· pie beyond a one or two-hundred mile radius know who we are," said President Dr. Miles 'I<Jmmeraasen. 
It looks like they really have something to sell. A national high school guidance counselors' periodical, Lovejoy's Guid­ance Digest, rated Morningside "the best kept secret in higher education today." Now, if they only took transfers ... 


WHO'S ON FIRST? 
E 
Iizabeth B. lladden writes from Duke University challenging the University of South Carolina's claim to have the first student-operated cable Don't forget to reserve your place in line! The phone number for Hands Across America is 1-800-USA-9000. 

in its tenth year of operation. It is a com­pletely student-operated organization," said Hadden, chairman of the station. 
The station broadcasts to all University dorm common rooms, bars, University· owned apartments and the Medical Cen· ter. Programming includes a weekly news and sports shows, intercollegiate athletics, a soap OJWra and a video year· book chronicling major events on cam· pus during the year. Programs arc also shown on the local cable company, reaching the whole Durham community Over ISO students work on Cable 13. Any 
~how, a marketing executive's dream if of 1,000 or above and are not from Iowa television station. "Cable 13 is presently other challengers? 
Ampersand 
3 






JOE ZAWINFUL 
On Joe Zawinful's new solo album, "Dialects," he brings the folk sounds of the 
world into 11is jazz. 

BY GREG PTACEK 
M 
usic fans know Joe Zawinful's music far better than his name. 
Mention Weather Report, and 
almost everyone calls them their favorite jazz band. Even those who aren't intimately familiar with their music know the tune of "Birdland," the hit sin­gle he wrote for the mega-album Heavy Weather (1977). Mention his name, and the response tends to be, "Zawin what?", except from those jazz afficionados who know to rank him with Miles Davis, Dave Brubeck and a handful of other modern jazz masters. 
That's o.k. with Joe. He would much 
rather be a musician-artist than a musi­
cian-celebrity Born in a Slavic town of 58 
people in rural Austria, he's never left his 
roots, emotionally or intellectually. Dia­
lects, his first solo album since co-found­
ing Weather Report with Wayne Shorter, 
reflects his respect for farm people and 
their folk music, whether from Austria, 
Africa, Asia or Australia. 
On a recent sunny California morning, 
Zawinful sipped coffee poolside at his 
I"Jsadena home on a hill overlooking the 
Rose Bowl. His house reflects his person­
ality: down to earth, more comfortable 
than hip, pets everywhere. 
He shared his thoughts on his album, the impending break-up of Weather Re­port, Sting as a jazz artist, rock 'n' roll, the future of jazz and the recording industry 
CEG: Why did you decide to make a solo album now? 
]Z: I've wanted to make this album for I 5 years, but my work with Weather Re­port always precluded it. When you put out an album, sometimes two albums, ev­ery year, there just isn't time. Several of the songs, though, I had written many years ago. It only took me two months to put it together. With Wayne [Shorter] do­ing his own album, it finally gave me an opportunity to do mine. 
CEG What's the future for Weather Re­port, now that you and Wayne Shorter are off on your own? 
4 
Ampersand 
]Z: Weather Report has a new album coming outApril15. The band will proba­bly tour between June and November, but we might have to bury the name. Wayne has his own band now and isn't part of Weather Report anymore. Wayne and I share the copyright for the name, so we probably can't go under that name. If we can't, then it's very likely we will call the band Weather Update. 
CEG: What kind of research did you do to capture the international sound you've achieved on Dialects? 
]Z: Absolutely none. The album is just my impression of the many peoples and places I have visited. I was not trying to imitate other culture's music. I don't even know any African or Japanese music. If it sounds authentic, it's because I'm a good listener. The music I created was based more on people's speaking patterns than anything else. 

CEG: How are jazz and folk related? 
]Z: To me, jazz is simply improvised rhythmic music with a heavy folklore background. Pure jazz is improvisation. All of Dialects is improvised; in fact, two of the tunes, "The Harvest" and "Zee Bop," are total improvisation-com­posed, played and recorded simulta­neously. And all the others were impro­vised, but the sound of the original improvisation was not good enough, so I recorded them again. There was no mas­ter blueprint to the album. That would take the pure soul away That would be like trying to prepare yourself to tell a girl you love her. How do you practice some­thing like that? 
CEG: How has rock 'n' roll affected your music? 
]Z: To be perfectly honest, rock has never had any effect on my music, aes­thetically Certainly, there have been great rock musicians. Jimi Hendrix comes immediately to mind. But Weather Report was not influenced by them. We're really a traditional jazz band, in the sense of Ellington and Louis Armstrong, that continues to explore new territory 
I grew up as an accordion player, play­ing with gypsies and playing folk music. Folk music is in my blood and my bones, and therefore I love jazz. Rock 'n' roll used to be great, or at least some of it, but I honestly could not name live rock musi­oans that I like, that I consider to be ex­cellent. My kids listen to that stuff, and I do like the Talking Heads. 
CEG: What do you think of the recent synthesis of pop and jazz, say, for exam-pie on Sting's Dream ofthe Blue Turtles? 
]Z: He's more of a jazz musician than a rock musician. The Police invented their own brand of music and they've said they are very influenced by Weather Report. In one interview, Sting actually said he is try­ing to emulate my vision but in a song form with lyrics, etc. 
But pop musicians like Sting are so rare. If I were to work with him, I could make him into a superior jazz singer. He's got a great voice, number one. He's got really good rhythm concepts, he's a musi­cian-a good bass player and he's got confidence. All the ingredients are there. 
CEG: What's holding jazz back from reaching a wider audience? 
]Z: The powers that control the record­ing industry don't want jazz to be great. If jazz becomes great, then what happens to all that other junk that so much time and money has been invested into? If you own a restaurant and you really think you've got a shot at making a lot of money by selling your version of junk food, you're going to ignore someone who tells you to serve really good food so that peo­ple know what it's like. 
It's the same thing in the record indus­try. Most people who run the industry are in it because they like to listen to music, and it's an easy job. They have no qualifi­cations. They get a big expense account and can take their favorite stars to lunch. And whoever shakes more hands is the most powerful. 
I was never a handshaker. I'm not inter­ested in power lunches. I'd rather eat lunch here with my wife and kids. I am a musician. I don't need cocktail parties. + 
Joe Zawinlul studies an upcoming project in his unpretentious home stu­dio. Uninterested in the trappings of pop stardom, the jazz musician comes across as aregular guy­who just happens to be a musical genius. 
PHOTOS COURTESY OF RICHARD E. AARON/ THUNDER THUMBS 



I'M A PIONEER. AND I'M PROUD OF IT. 
"Chances are, Iwon't be home swers your phone. But it's much more when you call. But don't panic. Iprom­than just afancy answering machine. ise you'll be well received. It's pure, beautiful Pioneer music. 
Oh, and by the way, don't be in­Pioneer's Intelligent System. sulted if Idon't call you back right away. It speaks your language ... in Imay just decide to listen to some more ways than one. music. First:' 
THE PIONEER INTELLIGENT 
Pioneer Electronics (USA) lnc.,IA>ng Beach, CA Pioneer FJectronica or Canada, Inc., Ontario, Canada 
©1986 Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc.

SYSTEM.It's so brilliant ... it even an­
CA1CH THE SPIRIT OFATRUE PIONEER. 
(Right) In Top Gun, Tom Cruise plays acocky Navy Pi· lot who doesn't like to play by the rules and who's so good, he might get away with it (Below) Cruise confronts his rival (Val Kilmer, left), aby­the-book star pilot 


TOP GUN 



BY JIMMY SUMMERS 
hen the time came to cast the part of Maverick Mitchell, the best young Navy pilot in the air, the producers of Top Gun had only one actor in mind. 
That was Tom Cruise. With relatively few roles to 
his credit, Cruise has become one of the most 
sought after andpopularyoungperformers in mo­
tion pictures. 


breed, a description most readily sup­ported by the pilots. During the produc­tion of Top Gun, Tom Cruise met many a Top Gunner and one of them summed up his slightly immodest attitude about his line of work by saying "there are only four occupations worthy of a man: actor, rock star, jet fighter pilot or President of the United States." That's not the sort of statement you get from a shrinking violet. 
It's also not an attitude that's overly tol­erant with outsiders. But Tom Cruise managed nonetheless to earn the pilots' respect. Said one Top Gun pilot: "Tom took his role very seriously. He looked like a pilot, studied like a pilot and some­times even partied like a pilot. Fortunate­ly, for him, he still made the salary of a movie star." 
The pilot Cruise plays in Top Gun is considered one of the best in the Navy's program. But Maverick Mitchell is achiev­ing his success without necessarily play­ing by the rules. He prefers to fly by in­stinct, a notion that keeps him in hot water with his superiors. He may win more dogfights than any other pilot, but he's only a few steps away from being booted out of the program. 
Matters are only worsened when he falls in love with a civilian specialist as­signed to the program. Playing Charlotte Blackwood, the forbidden love interest, is Kelly McGillis. You might remember McGillis from an even more complicated romance in Witness, when she played the Amish widow in love with Harrison Ford's Philadelphia detective. 
Rounding out the cast are more of Hol­lywood's promising new faces. Playing Maverick's radar intercept officer-his one partner in the air-is Anthony Ed­wards of Revenge of the Nerds and Got­cha. Playing his chief competition for the distinction of top Top Gunner is Val Kil­mer of Top Secret!and Real Genius. 
Also in the cast are Tom Skerritt, play­ing the Top Gun commanding officer and Michael Ironsides, playing the Top Gun instructor. + 
From his first appearance on screen in Taps, Cruise had a certain something that made him stand out from the rest of the crowd. By the time he starred in Risky Business, dancing in his underwear to the music of Bob Seger, the world knew it had a new star. Certain people just can't be held back from achieving success, and it seemed obvious that Cruise was one of those special people. 
Now Cruise is playing a character that might be described in just the same way. Lt. Pete "Maverick" Mitchell is also a golden boy, but he's a golden boy of the sky. He's an F-14 fighter pilot who's been selectively chosen to participate in the Navy's prestigious Fighter Weapons School, or as it is known to the pilots, the Top Gun program. 
The few who are privileged to be Top Gun students are chosen from the Navy's top air crews. Because the Navy's F-14 pi­lots already represent the best the Navy has to offer, the Top Gunners are the best of the best, the excelling elite. After an 
Ampersand 
intensive program that includes simulat­ed in-air dogfights and hours of class­room study, the Top Gun graduates re­turn to their commands and share their new expertise with the other crews in their squadron. 
These aerial cowboys are a special 

'· 
~~· •' 
.) ,}~ 
· ..... , ~~· 


M USICAL NOTE s 
j .,·,zt.lj'#fii40~t,.,q;~ 
Inside Track has raised half a million dollars for AIDS become the "rock 'n' roll Library Of Con­research ... Bob Geldof has signed a gress." Envisioned as a resource center~-J:q:, ""'?~;.:;~="$ W)# deal to write his autobiography, sched­for both scholars and fans alike, The Ar­
. .... -=-. .. 

T 
uled for release in May. The "Live Aid" chive of Contemporary Music hopes to Quick Takes ... organizer was a former rock journalist be­become a repository for notable record he long-standing feud between fore beginning the Boomtown Rats. In a collections. Unlike a book collection, former roommates Prince and An­recent poll of British youth, Geldof was which can be left to a university, organiz­dre Cymone seems to have end­picked as their favorite choice for Prime. ers David Wheeler and Bob George note ed. The boyhood friends recently Minister ... MCA Records and basketball there is no place to will a music library. (Left) Kareem Abdui-Jabbar sky­united on stage in St. Paul for the first superstar Kareem Abdul-Jabbar have offi­"One of our catch phrases is 'We want time since Cymone left Prince's band five cially announced their partnership. The your records when you die'," says
hooks his way to MCA Records as 

years ago. Prince went to Minneapolis to Laker star, known for his extensive jazz Wheeler ... Two new studies of rock mu­
jazz talent scout. (Bottom, left) 

see Mazarati debut their new album be­record collection, will serve as a talent sic were recently released. The first, con­Pretty-boy Prince collaborates cause the group is on his Paisley Park la­scout recruiting new and established art­ducted by The Associated Press, found bel. Before the end of the night, both he ists. Kareem's father was a jazz musician that, while a majority of American adults and Cymone were playing with the band ... In a similar capacity, Foreigner bass enjoy rock, they think it corrupts the 
with his father on two songs for his 
upcoming albumn. (Center, top) 

and reportedly returned to Prince's ware­player Rick Wills has joined Westwood young. (We should only begin to worry if 
The EStreet Band's saxophonist 

house after the gig, where they jammed One as the radio network's East Coast di­a poll ever concludes that American Clarence Clemons can make vid· until 7 a.m ... a-ha has turned down a rector of talent acquisitions. Wills says ac­adults believe rock DOESN'T corrupt million-dollar offer from Vidal Sassoon to cepting the position will not compromise youth.)
eos with Jackson Browne and 

do TV commercials in America. The Nor­his work with Foreigner ... Two critically 
Daryl Hannah, but advertisements 

wegian group, worried about its image as acclaimed groups, The Australian Crawl 
are ano-no according to Bruce. 

all tluff and no stuff, will endorse only a and Canada's Headpins, have called it (Center, bottom) Matrimony and music-related product, if any at all ... quits after disappointing record sales of Clarence Clemons was ready to accept a their last albums in the U.S ... And now
motherhood make Chrissie a 

major product endorsement deal until the rock 'n' roll real estate report: Simon 
happy lady. The Pretenders are 

Bruce Springsteen urged him to decline. LeBon is building a $3.6 million home in 
back in the studio. The Boss apparently doesn't want the E an exclusive district of London, where Street Band's image sullied with adver­he'll live with his new bride Yasmin Par­tisements ... Paul McCartney has with­venah. Billy joel and Christie Brinkley drawn from the lawsuit the other surviv­bought the floor under their penthouse ing Beatles and the estate ofJohn Lennon apartment on Central Park South in New have against their record company, Capi­York City in order to install a full-size tol/EM!. Could it be because McCartney swimming pool ... Debbie Harry, joey signed a very lucrative deal with the re­Ramone, William Burroughs, Laurie An­cord company last fall? The suit claims derson, Run DMC, Suzanne Vega and Da­that Capitol owes the Beatles some $30 vid Johansen appeared recently at the million in royalites and asks for another Limelight Club in New York City to raise $SO million in punitive damages and at­money for what the organizers hope will torneys' and accountants' fees . . . U2 have announced they will make themselves available to Amnesty International in S 1986 for fundraising projects ... Heavy metal stalwarts Iron Maiden and W.A.S.P. have pro­duced anti-drinking and driv­ing bumper stickers. (Both 
1-rn groups are selling them.) ... en 0
w 
a: 
~ ID
joan Jett, jackson Browne and 
rn a:
::J w
the Gregg Allman hand are the z 
~ a: 
i=' latest to lend their names in ~ 
a: 
support of the campaign start­
~ 
rn ed by Bruce Springsteen and 
u 
\ ir " John Cougar Mellencamp against the closing of a 3M plant in Springsteen's home­
#' town, Freehold, New Jersey. 
,/' ~",.....
#,£! Dionne Warwick's single, 
-
"That's What Friends Are For," 
8 
Ampersand 


. 
-~_-·




__ .···_·_~··_.··
·~j 
. '. ·,!. 
\ 

Rock Rap 
,c If ll)' £)4'1·~ l)-:!jfr
•-...: ~ :r ... 

Mike Rutherford 
A 
sa founding member of Genesis, 
guitarist/bassist Mike Rutherford 
was instrumental in creating the 
progressive rock sound of the '70s. While the hand has always operated as a collective unit, its frontmen, notably Peter Gabriel and, following his depar­ture, Phil Collins, received the lions' shares of publicity. 
But the success of Mike and the Me­chanics, both the name of his new group and solo album, has brought Rutherford into the spot I ight. 
Mike and the Mechanics is actually Rutherford's third solo album, hut the first to make a splash in the U.S., largely as a result of the single, "Silent Running." The song not only shot up the record · charts but spawned a Number One MTV video, putting an end to the suggestions 
that Genesis was nothing without Phil Collins. 
Still, Rutherford admits he prefers working in the context of a group rather than as a solo artist. "This album doesn't feel like a solo album," he says, "because I've developed and presented the album differently; hence the group name: Mike and the Mechanics. It feels very much like a group. It's a lot more fun working with others than on your own." 
Most of the album's songs were written by Rutherford and producer Chris Neal, whom he credits with choosing the right material. Genesis co-founder Tony Banks and Phil Collins co-wrote "A Call to Arms," an old song Genesis never re­corded that I've always liked." Paul Car­rack and Paul Young (the former lead singer of the group Sad Cafe, not the Paul Young of "Everytime You Go Away") handle the vocals. 
Rutherford is currently at work on the new Genesis album and readying for a world tour with the group beginning in September. As if Genesis and Mike and the Mechanics weren't enough, he is also working with another band, Virginia Woolf, which includes Jason Bonham, the son of the late Led Zeppelin drum­




Record Watch 
: . .fit? Jtc_t rt z; •2J&t t.l . 

T
he reunion of Led Zeppelin for "Live Aid" last summer prompted a flurry of rumors of a possible re­union album by the supergroup. Those suggestions, hopes and prayers were extinguished quickly by Robert Plant and Jimmy Page, the former pursu­ing a successful solo career and the latter involved with The Firm. But now come published reports in England that a Led Zeppelin album will be recorded this year with Plant, P'Jge and John Paul]ones. Power Station's Tony Thompson will fill in for the late John Bonham. The four are said to be currently rehearsing, with plans to go into the studio in late April. While no official announcement has been forth­coming, The Firm has limited its U.S. tour to only six dates, leaving Page available in April ... Miami Vice co-stars Don john­son and Philip Michael Thomas have new record projects in the works. Johnson's upcoming solo album will feature songs by former Allman Brothers' Band guitarist Dickey Betts, who is also working on an album of his own. Thomas is beginning a musical based on the age-old blues song "Staggerlee." He envisions the song first as the inspiration for a thematic album, then as a Broadway musical and finally as a TV movie. Thomas says it will feature music from the roaring '20s to the '80s .. The Pretenders are currently in studio, completing tracks for their follow-up to 1983's Leaming To Crawl ... The Roll­ing Stones' new album, Dirty Work, car­ries a dedication to Ian Stewart, founding member and keyboard player who died last December of a heart attack at the age of 47. Stewart's participation on the al­bum was his last recorded work ... Prince wrote two of the 12 songs on his new album, Parade, with his father. The songs "Under The Cherry Moon" and "Christopher Tracy's P'Jrade" are co-cred­ited to john L. Nelson, i.e., Prince, Sr ... Rock 'n' roll legend Roy Orbison is at work in Los Angeles on an album of all new material he's written with such col­laborators as Will Jennings, J.D. Souther and Rodney Crowell. In the meantime, two other Orbison albums will be re­leased, including one that features Rick Nelson's last session ... Wham!'s George Michael has recorded a new solo single in Paris called ''A Different Corner" (P'Jrt­ner Andrew Ridgely is keeping himself busy on the European racing circuit.) ... Sting has recorded a track with jeff Beck titled, "Live For Life," to be released later 

<(
::;; 
::;; ::> 
en 
z 
z 
<( 

Exene and John Doe of Xgo to the studio in April 
with their band ... minus guitarist Billy Zoom. 
this year with the proceeds to go to cancer research ... Eddie Money's long-awaited album is scheduled for a May release. Ronnie Spector joins Money on what may become his first single ... Quincy Jones says he and Michael jackson have begun selecting new material for jackson's next album. No release date, yet ... P'Jul Young goes into the studio in April, hav­ing just completed a tour of the Far East. Young is planning to record the album in Belgium ... Classical composer Philip Glass' new album, Songs From Liquid Days, features songs by Paul Simon, Da­vid Byrne, Suzanne Vega and Laurie An­derson. Linda Ronstadt and The Roches contributed vocals ... Quiet Riot will re­lease a new album mid-year ... Also scheduled for a summer release is a new album by Colin Hay, lead singer of the now defunct Men at Work ... X goes into the studio in April, recording what band co-founder john Doe describes as "X's interpretation of the blues." Dave Alvin of The Blasters will replace the now depart­ed Billy Zoom on lead guitar ... It may be a year or more before Bruce Springsteen releases a new album. In the meantime, those suffering from severe Boss with­drawal may want to consider a new com­pilation of 13 Springsteen songs as per­formed by other artists, on Rhino Records. The album's title alone is wor­thy of praise-CoverMe . .. Finally, a year ago I ended a review of the last Red Hot Chili Peppers album with the rhetorical question, "What next, polka rock?" Oom­pah-pah, indeed! Rotondi, a new band popular on the L.A. avant-garde club cir­cuit, plays music that can only be de­scribed as polka punk. "As far as where it is going to lead, it's hard to say," said Paul Lacques, the band's leader, in a recent Los Angeles Times interview. "It didn't start with any particular goal. It was really just for fun." Yeah, well don't forget, they said the same thing about disco. 






HOT BODIES NEED 

Music is more than emotional. It's 
physical. You feel the beat. You feel the 
heat. It moves your body as powerfully 
as your mind. 
You tune your body with a desire for perfection. Tune your music the same way. With TDK SA and AD audio cas­settes. They deliver the hottest high end and lowest distortion. With more bril­liance, more dimension, more excite­ment. For unequalled performance on any cassette deck. Play after play. 
And TDK's Lifetime Warranty assures you that the music will never lose its fire. No matter how emotional or physical the workout gets. TDK SA and AD audio cassettes. For musical fitness at its best. 

&TDK. 
WHERE GREAT ENTERTAINMENT BEGINS 
Director-writer-producer John Hughes, known for his uncannily sensi· live and on-the-mark portraits of high school teenagers in The Breakfast Club and Pretty in Pink, cuts class for aday on the town in Ferris Bueller's Day Off. 
F 
erris Beuller's Day Off, says John Hughes, "is about this high school kid who cuts class and goes to the big city for the day with his best friend and girlfriend. But, it really is about personal freedom and how differ­ent things are when you have decided for just one day to be free." 
Hughes, world class creator and cutter of films ranging from Mr. Mom to Sixteen Candles and The Breakfast Club, is perched on the edge ofa long grey couch at his offices at Paramount Studios in Hol­lywood. With the exception of Stephen Spielberg, no recent young filmmaker has enjoyed such speedy success. During the past three years or so, his efforts have made hundreds of millions of dollars and displayed the comic verve and range of a Charlie Chaplin or Woody Allen. Just by 
12 Ampersand 
making movies about kids. 
Some, like The Breakfast Club, are tightly choreographed, literate ballets. One or two others, like the National Lampoon's Summer Vacation, may have had their most crucial scenes conjured on the back of a cocktail napkin. 
But, mostly, Hughes' work is ambi­tious, smart, riveting and funny And no current movie maker is as good at mixing belly laughs with heart and compassion. Ferris Beul!er is his latest. 
"It's about freedom from worry Ferris doesn't worry, doesn't sweat anything. It's also about a change in reality If you've ever stayed home from school or work for reasons other than being sick, you see how different the world looks." 
Hughes looks far less like the stereo­typical tanned Hollywood mogul than, 

BY MARK CHRISTENSEN 

say, a rather bookish member of an En­glish rock band. Tall. An explosive mane of long, dark blond hair. Glasses. A black cloth coat, thoroughly wrinkled silver slacks and a white shirt with sleeves so long that his cuffs touch his knuckles. 
''I'd much rather be a musician than a movie maker, but I'm just about tone deaf. To me, tuning a guitar correctly is one of the world's major mysteries." Nev­ertheless, his aggressive use of new mu­sic has become a stock in trade. "Simple Minds sold 50,000 albums until 'Don't You· broke on Breakfast Club. 
"But there will be a change with the music on Ferris. What I want to do is use a big sound, a state of the art production using edge bands that press the enve­lope-or whatever the space people call it-bands like Zig-Zag Sputnik, then, couple that with a more accessible sound. 
"I want to focus my movies on bands who have the right to be heard by the great Top Forty masses. New stuff. Be­cause, like, when I go to Chicago, I listen to three stations and get nothing but San­tana and 'Layla.' It's like somebody fell asleep on the 1972 button." 
A former writer for National Lampoon, Hughes left the magazine several years ago to write what are popularly perceived as "teen flicks," a realm previously domi­nated by big breasts, beer drinking and fart jokes. His efforts (usually) to elevate the genre have made for films that re­create adolescence with an energy, in­ventiveness and exactitude that can be drop dead eerie. 
Who can forget Anthony Michael Hall in Sixteen Candles, the kid with the spi­dery hands and concave chest who, while wooing Molly Ringwald, allows, some­what parenthetically, that his social status in the school is insured by the fact that he is "king of the dipshits." Or, later, when he wakes after a drunken night of evident­debauchery and de-virginizing with his high school's brassiest sexpot, the new, rather blithely unanchored Hall asking her, "Did I enjoy it?" 


JOHN HUGHES: 
Making the Movies 
Young People Love 
Hughes' enthusiasm for these kinds of shenanigans is surprising in light of the fact that his own adolescent experience was not idylic. "In high school, I was a serious outcast, a laughingstock. I took it. I took it and I thought, Til show you; I'll show you.' This was, like, in 1967. 
"I went to a jock-y school. We had a serious dress code. I almost didn't gradu­ate, because my hair touched my collar." 
"Back then, I wanted to be Picasso, Mi­chelangelo, James Joyce or Bob Dylan. That's where I took my solace. People would make fun of me, and I'd think, 'That's okay. Picasso would like me.' I'd come home at night, and I'dsitat my win­dow and put on my albums and read my British music magazines. I didn't want to belong, because I couldn't belong." 
"The guy who was the teacher in Breakfast Club was my gym teacher. He didn't like me because of my hair, so he flunked me senior year in gym, which meant, to graduate, I had to take double gym and health. You know, sit in class and look at YO-ravaged genitals and slide shows about how to brush your teeth." 
Were other characters in his films taken directly from experience? "Yeah. The jerk rich kid in Pretty in Pink. I had a guy like him haunt me all the way through high school. Money to burn. His older brother had an Alfa, the big nice one, and parked it outside with the top down in the rain. I would walk by and see the rose­wood buckling on the dash. I couldn't un­derstand how kids could live like that. I just wasn't part of that world." 
And college was scarcely an improve­ment. "I hated it intensely I was enor­mously homesick and felt completely displaced ... I went to college in Arizo­na, a big party school, a big fraternity school. The anti-war movement was very small, and the cops were very tough . 
"I was desperately in love with my wife, who was then my girlfriend. She was still in high school. I spent $1,000 first semester just on phone bills. 
"I had problems with the social nature 


Juniors, Seniors, Grad Students: 
.•.before you graduate 
In addition to its immediate usefulness, your SearsCharge Account could be an important step in establishing your credit history­something you'll need after you leave school. 
It's easier to get a Sears Credit Card than you might think. You don't need a big bank account or a regular job-or even a diploma. If you are a responsible person with the ability to pay your bills, Sears believes you deserve credit. 
There are lots of 
good reasons to apply for a 
Sears Credit Card today... 
• You get nationwide credit at over 3000 Sears Retail and Catalog Stores and you pay no annual fee! There are over 3000 Sears Retail and Catalog Stores all across the country, and your Sears Credit Card is good at every one of them. Wherever you live, travel or work-and wherever you may move-you have credit available at a nearby Sears. Plus, unlike some credit cards, there's no fee for aSears Credit Card. And finance charges are always fully disclosed on your Sears statement 
• Over 100,000 fine products and services at Sears. With aSears Credit Card you can choose from an enormous range of products and services-all backed by the Sears promise of "Satisfaction Guaranteed or Your Money Back". And when you don't have time to get to aSears Store, use your Sears Credit Card to order by phone from our famous catalogs. Just say "Charge itl" 
• The Sears Credit Card is one of the most valuable cards a student could have. 
If you apply for aSears Credit Card now, while you're still in school, you can establish agood credit rating before you graduate. Then when you're ready to begin your career, the Sears Credit Card can help you furnish your apartment, outfit yourself with a professional wardrobe, or tune-up your car. 
Apply for your Sears Credit Card by phone or mail: Call toll-free to apply: 1·800·323·3274 In Illinois call: 1·800·942·7446 
Toll-free number not available in Alaska 
When you call, ask for a New Accounts Operator, who will If you prefer, fill in the application on the reverse side and 
be happy to take all the necessary information in only a mail rt-the postage is already paid. few moments. Please answer all questions completely so that we can Please call 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Friday; 9 a.m. process your application promptly. Of course, all to 4 p.m. Saturday, Central Standard time. information is strictly confidential. 

MOISTEN HERE 

MOISTEN HERE 
Sears believes responsible young adults deserve credit. Apply now for your SearsCharge card and establish the credit record you'll need when you leave school. There's no fee, no hidden credit charges, and its good at more than 3,000 Sears locations nationwide. 
NEW YORK RESIDENTS A consumer credit report may be ordered In connection with this application, or subsequently In connection with the update, renewal or 
~~~~r:.s.:.Oe~ ~:~:r~!~o~r:~:g~Je~~~:~~ ,l~fw~1!1, ~u1":~r:':,:.,~e:~:'n~:;,~~~~
eddress of the consumer reporting agency that furnished the report. OHIO RESIDENTS The Ohio laws against discrimination raqulre that all creditors make credit aqually available to all creditworthy customers and that credit reporting 
~t~~~T~t'~f~~~~~~;;r,::r;~fo~r::~~~\!\~;~e~o".::p~l~~~n:l:~dt~~! ~f~.n raquest. The WISCONSIN RESIDENTS Wisconsin law provides that no agreement, court order, or 
~n~~~~~~~o~t~~~h':m;:g:x~~P~~~;::~:~~~t~~oc':~~o~V! ~!':,'i!~e~r;1;~o;·~d~;~n~: 
agreement, court order, or statement, or has actual knowledge of the adverse provision. 

c 1986 Sears, Roebuck and Co 

• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • JUST FOLD. SEAL AND MAIL • • • 
Name 
NOPOS7AGE NECESS4RY 
IF MAILED
School 
IN THE UNITED STATES 
Address City State Zip 

ID 39 
BUSINESS REPLY MAIL 
RRSTCLASS PERMIT NO 711 CHICAGO, IL 
POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY ADDRESSEE 

SEARS, ROEBUCK AND CO. NEW APPLICATION CENTER P .0. Box 1564 
Downers Grove, IL 60515-9955 

1.11 •• 11 •••• 1.1 •••• 11.1.1.1.1 •• 1.1 ••• 1.1 •• 1.1 •• 1.1.1 




of the school. I wasn't a fraternity type. 
And I had a knack for attracting hostile 
authority figures. I mean, during the Rev­
olutionary War I would have been OVl'r at 
Torn l~tyne·~ house saying, '!ley, let's get 
some boats, cross the Atlantic and make 
them live under US for a while'." Finally, 
after two or thrl'l' and a halfyears, Hughes 
got a belly full of academia 1nd, on hear­
ing John Lennon's"Working Class llero", 
decided to head hack home. 
Conditions did not improve immedi­ately. "Nancy and I· -she was 20, I was 21-I ived in a converted boxcar. The rent wa~ only $110 a month. But, we couldn't­make it and ended up living in my par­ents' hast•mt•nt for eight months." But things gotlwtter. After !;tiling the"writing tt•sts"of half the ad agencies in Chicago, he got a job at Leo Burnett where he final­ly found a niche. 
"I went to work in the day and came home in the dark. I started at $H,';OO a year, doubled my salary within six months and doubled it again a year after 1hat. I just kept eating up bosses. One time the guy above nlt' did an ad the com­pany didn'tlike. I asked for a shot at it and stayed up all night doing sixteen varia­tions on the idea I had. They liked one and, the next thing I knew, I had his job. I was a creative director at 2') or 26." 
Then came Nationall.ampomz, where I lughes filled upwards of 120 magazine page~ a year with stories like "Sexual! lar­rassml'llt: IIow to Do II." The rest, as they say, is history. 
So, has success changed .John Hughes? Evidently, not much. llughes still spends as much time as possible back home in Chicago. "I still own a house there. 1just put a new roof on it, so, if there are winos living there while I'm gone, they won't get wet. I don't mix much socially out here. I've only gone to two so-called 'lloll)'wood' parties in my life, one be­cause l'.j. O'Rourke made me, and the other because it was an MTV premiere for 
Pre/~)' ill Pink." 
Big Money doesn't seem to interest 
him either. "I've got a business manager I 
haven't seen in a year and a half. Basically, 
I know I'm better off now because I can 
afford to buy lots more records." 
But what about the future? "I'd like to 
have my own building, my own opera­
tion. I'm not that nuts about movie lots. 
I'd like to write a hook, maybe a novel, 
but I don't think I've mastered that form 
yet. I'd love to do some 9,000 page thing. 
''I've got another film scheduled to start shooting this summer, Some Kind of \Hmdet:fill. It's college, my first foray into college. It's about the difference between the first year and the last, the struggle for dignity and identity. 
"Right now, I'm making two movies a year with very direct involvement. But I could do three a year, produce two and direct one. The thing is, I've got a million ideas. It's choosing which ones to exe­cute that's tough." 

Above: As the class-cutting lead in Ferris Beul/er's Day Off, Matthew Broderick indulges in some serious relax­ation. Hughes describes his film about the high schooler's day on the lam as "about personal freedom," and "a change in reality. If you've ever stayed home from school or work for reasons other than being sick, you realize how different the world looks." 

Left: Annie Potts, who stars as a funky record store manager, re­
lives some of her senior prom 
memories with Molly Ringwald in 
Pretty in Pink. Below: Andrew 
McCarthy (Left with Pretty in Pink 
costars Molly Ringwald and John 
Cryer) plays the "jerk rich kid" 
inspired by areal-life Hughes high 
school classmate who parked his 
Alta "outside with the top down in 
the rain. Iwould walk by and see 
the rosewood buckling on the 
dash." 
"In high school, 1was a serious outcast,. .. People would make run or me and I'd think, 'That's okay. Picasso 


Ampersaml 






AFINE MESS 
L 
aurei and Hardy would he pleased. 
The humbling silliness of the his­
toric comic duo is the inspiration 
for director Blake Edwards' new film, A Fine Mess, starring Ted Danson and Howie Mandel as two equally hum­bling ne'er-do-wells. 
Laurel and Hardy would seem to he a natural for the director who, with Peter Sellers, created the modern master of bumble, Inspector Clouseau, in the Pink Panther films. Indeed, "They were Blake's favorite comedy team," com­mented co-star Mandel. 
Although loosely based on a classic short by the comic legends, A Fine Mess, "is more of an homage," said Mandel. "It 
Ted Danson (right) and Howie Mandel play sidekicks down on their luck in AFine Mess, azany comedy inspired by aclassic Laurel and Hardy short. 
was originally called The Music Box, which was the famous Laurel and Hardy short with them trying to get a piano up a flight of stairs. But this movie is a com­pletely original story It's very physical comedy, wacky, with chases-! guess it has a little piece of every one of their movies in that sense." 
"1 play Dennis Powell, a roller-skating hamburger stand waiter who's been working his whole life to save up for his own fast-food restaurant. Ted Danson plays his huddy, a movie extra whose dream is to become a big star. This story is about the "fine mess" he (Danson) gets us into when he sees something he's not supposed to see." 
John Carpenter turns his weird sensibilities to Chinatown in Big Trouble in Little China. Kurt Russell (second from right) stars as an adventurer who helps afriend (Dennis Dunn, second from left) find his kidnapped wife. 

BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CHINA 

W 
elcome to dinner in China­town in john Carpenter's /3ig Trouble in Little China. After you finish the tea and the dim­sum, how about a stroll through the un­derworld, with such exotic attractions as the "Room of the Upside-Down Hell" the "Honorable Hall of the Infernal judge?" 
You'll know you're in big trouble when you bump intojack Burton (Kurt Russell) and his pig hauling truck, the Pork Chop Express. jack is helping his friend Wang Chi (Dennis Dun) recover his lost green­eyed bride kidnapped by Lo Pan (James Hong) and his fiendish thugs. 
Aided by Gracie Law, a sensuous attor­ney played by Kim Cattral, and Egg Shen (Victor Wong), a clairvoyant bus driver, jack and Wang enter an imaginary under­world ruled by Lo Pan. According to leg­end, Lo Pan is a cold-blooded spirit im­prisoned in hell by the First Emperor of China, who can only regain his virility by coupling with that one-in-a-million green-eyed woman. 
Pretty kinky, huh? Big Trouble starts off as an action-adventure-comedy, shifts into high gear as bizarre circumstances mount and winds up as a kung fu-mon­ster-ghost story Whew! 
"It's an ensemble piece, and it's very complex," says Carpenter, who is famous for his low-budget, gripping thrillers like Halloween and Christine. 
However, Big Trouble is a $25-million production, filmed mostly in Los Angeles with a great deal of special effects from fiery explosives to an 8-foot human skull which emits eerily-colored smoke. 
But stripped of its haunting facade, the basic premise of Big Trouble is still good guys versus bad guys. This ancient tradi­tion of story-telling "goes back to the days of Ulysses and Shakespeare," Car­penter says. And, though it may sound simplistic, Carpenter believes that's the key to every one of his films: sheer fun intertwined with subtle messages. 
-Albert Pang 
Will Rodney Dangerfield (left) finally get some re­spect? Maybe in his new film, Back to School, where he plays abusinessman who goes back to college. 


BACK TO SCHOOL 
' '~ movie's hard," says Rod­
ney Dangerfield, his long 
doleful face looking more 
sorrowful than ever. "When you're telling jokes to a camera, you don't get much of a response. Know what I mean?" It's not much solace to a man who's used to making millions laugh that the cameraman and the boom opera­tor are trying to keep from falling down with laughter while filming Back to School, Dangerfield's latest movie. 
"They're laughing because they weren't expecting that," says director Alan Metter. "Rodney makes up material all the time. I leave at the end of the day, exhausted from shooting. He goes home to polish jokes and continue to work. 
In Back to School, Dangerfield plays a self-made millionaire who signs on as a freshman at college in order to help his shy son through a bad time. It's a comedy of errors with Dangerfield triumphing in spite of himself amid the usual comple­ment of rapid-tire one-liners. 
--joan Goodman (Summer Film Preview continues on nextpage) .,_ 
/ ; f' 
-i ) 1 

l f ,,' 
~· 
' 
' 
THE LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS 
J 
ust when you thought it was safe to go back to the greenhouse ... along comes The Little Shop Of Horrors, with Audrey II, its people-eating plant. Director Frank Oz (of Muppets fame) says cheerfully, "By the time we're finished, the entire cast is eaten. I know a lot of directors will envy that." 
You probably would love Audrey II, if you could see her, but, until the movie is released, she's being kept under wraps. ''Alii can say is she sings, she dances, she dials the phone, and she eats people," says Lyle Conway, her designer. Those who have seen her say she starts out small and sexy, and, fed human beings, grows to truly huge proportions. 
Audrey II first proved her popularity in the original Little Shop, a low-budget Roger Corman film made 25 years ago. ("We spent $40,000 on ours," says Cor­man ruefully. "This one is $20 million.") Four years ago, Little Shop ofHorrors was resurrected as an off-off-Broadway musi­cal comedy. Its success encouraged Warner Bros. to reprise it on film. 
"It's not a big, splashy Hollywood mu­sical," says Henson. "The music is an in­tegral part of the story and moves the plot forward. We haven't opened up the plot so much as we've enriched it." 
The action takes place in Mushnick's Flower Shop in a rundown part of town. Seymour (Rick Moranis), a nerdy floral assistant, buys a strange little plant and names it for his girlfriend Audrey 
Having no awe of the Hollywood star system, the plant snacks happily on cast members Steve Guttenberg, Bill Murray, Paul Dooley, Vincent Gardenia, et al­though not necessarily in that order. 
-Joan Goodman 

CLUB PARADISE
' ' N
one of us could wait to getdown on location," says Twiggy, who stars with Robin Williams and Peter O'Toole in Harold Ramis' (Ghostbusters) new film Club Paradise. "I had just come from a film set in Eng­land, where it was freezing cold," said the actress and former model who set the style for London's swinging sixties."We all were so glad to be in the sun, we would have played the phone book. As it turned out, it was a very, very funny script, so we were lucky in all ways." Club Paradise is a comic mixture of ro­mance, revolution and seedy resorts, written by Ramis. "It also includes a smarmy Englishman, which I play," says Simon Jones (Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Brideshead Revisited). "It's a 
16 Ampersand 
small but nasty part, and I liked playing it, especially in Jamaica. 
"Robin Williams plays the good guy He's a fireman from Chicago who wisely decides he's had enough of cold and snow and fighting fires. He comes to Par­adise, where he not so wisely decides to invest in a rundown resort hotel with Jim­my Cliff, who is having trouble with the local corrupt politicos. Along the way, Robin manages to attract the cook and first mate of my yacht to his enterprise. Since the mate is Twiggy, you can under­stand my deep resentment." 
There's Peter O'Toole's sun-drenched Governor General, who hates to have his cushy life disturbed. And there's his girl­friend, a travel writer who wants to report on world events and sees her destiny in an island revolution. 
"In fact, things were so complicated," says Simon Jones, "that Harold was the 
only  one who  knew what  was  going  
on."  -Joan Go odman  
ALIENS  

A 
summer film promising to be a special effects extravaganza is Aliens, sequel to 1979's monster hit, Alien. It brings back Sigour­ney Weaver as Ellen Ripley, sole survivor (with her .cat) of the originaL 
It's seventy years after the events of Alien. Ripley is horrified to learn that the planet that held the alien derelict and eggs is being colonized. No one will be­lieve Ripley's story ... until contact with the planet is mysteriously lost. Sent back with a contingent of tough space marines led by Michael (The Terminator) Biehn, Ripley finds hordes of the toothy terrors and faces down their termite-like Queen in a finale that could make Rocky IV!ook like a pattycake contest. -Michtu!lMayo 
In Aliens, you find out why the title of this sequel to Alien is plural. Sigourney Weaver (center) returns as the sell-reliant Ellen Ripley, sole survivor of the first film. Michael Biehn (left) co-stars. 
AMERICAN ANTHEM 

C 
ombine a dazzling palette of col­ors, pulsating rock rhythyms and music video stylistics, and the re­sult is American Anthem, director Albert Magnoli's follow-up to the smash success, Purple Rain. The arena this time is the sport ofgymnastics, where conflicts between relationships, goals and the competition provide the drama. 
Olympic gold medalist Mitch Gaylord makes his motion picture debut opposite janet Jones, the lithe young actress who burst on the movie scene with The Fla­mingo Kid and A Chorus Line. 
Steve Tevere (Gaylord) faces a coming of age conflict (What an original concept for a youth film!). As he is launching his career in gymnastics, his father is laid off and he loses the strength and moral sup­port he has known throughout his teen years. Enter julie Oanes) an attractive, talented gymnast who has left her family and ventured West to challenge herself 
(Left)ln Club Paradise, when Robin Williams in· vests in arundown tropical resort, he gets in· volved with reggae musicians, island politics and someone else's wife (Twiggy). (Right) Mitch Gaylord and Janet Jones play aspiring gymnasts balding personal and ath· lelic challenges to make the Olympic team in American Anthem. Albert Magnoli (Purple Rain) directs. 


competitively and emotionally Together they work toward their mutual goal-the 
U.S. Gymnastics Championships and a shot at the Olympics. 
These events provide the setting for the film's climactic finale, a spectacular dis­play of vaults, twists, flips and all-around agility which features more than 100 top­level gymnasts from around the globe. In­cluded in this group are world champions Steve Elliott and China's Li Yuejiu, and an additional seven members from the U.S. National team and two members of the Canadian National team. 
American Anthem, filmed entirely on location in Phoenix and the aspen groves of northern Arizona, features vibrant vi­suals edited to the tempo of an incredible soundtrack, and offers sport fans a chance to watch some fine gymnastics. + -Vic Davis 
If you think the best way to pay for college is to put it off for a few years and join the military, you'rehalf right. 
Because with the New GI Bill, you can join the Army National Guard and earn $18,000 for college. 
But best of all, you serve two days a month and two weeks a year. Which means you can go to school full-time. Right now. On us. 
So the question you have to ask yourself is not, can you afford college. 
The question is, can you afford to wait. 
For more information about the Army Guard and 
the New GI Bill, fill out the attached coupon and mail it in. Or call 800·638·7600* 
•tn Hawaii: 737-5255: Puerto Rico: 721-4550: Guam: 477-9957: Virgin Islands (St. Croix): 773-6438: New jersey: 800-452-5794. In Alaska consult your local phone directory. 

r--------------------1 
MAIL TO: AnnyNationaiGuard. P.O. Hox 6000, Clifton, NJ 07015 ~~---------------11M D F 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

CITY/STATE/ZIP .,...A=REC"C':A-=c=o=IJE7":....,l',.,ll=m=JE:--------liS CITIZEN 0 YES 0 NO 
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER BIRTH DATE 
OCCUPATION STUDENT 0 IIIGII SCHOOL 0 COLLEGE PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE 0 YES D NO I BRANCII RANK AFM/MOS


1 ,.,.,.,NfORM~IIONVOUVOIUNIARLtVf>AOVI!lf National Guard
INCLU(ljNGVOURSOCIAL SFCUAINNUM\JIIl Wilt fiE USUJfQAR(CRUITINC.PU'II-lS!SUNlY YOWl SOCIAl Sl CUWlYNUMBFH 
L ~E~T~Y~!l~T~S~T~~~----------J 
( !985 UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY Of DE FENS~ ALL RIGHTS RE5eRVED 
Army~!!!!!!!1 Guard 
lllllt• •IIIIP 

Contributions by Jimmy Summers, Greg Ptacek and Gina Renee Gross. 
Getting accurate dates from hectic Hollywood is tough; all release dates and 
tour schedules are subject to change. 

FILM 
OPENINGS 
MAY 2 o JO JO DANCER, YOUR LIFE IS CALLING-A hot black comic is forced to re-evaluate his life when he is nearly killed by his involvement with drugs. Sound familiar? The star, director, writer and producer is Richard Pryor. Now does it register? Martial arts men Pat Morita and Ralph Macchio are 

alive and kicking in Karate KidII. 
MAY 2 o BLUE CI1Y-This week's brat 
pack movie stars Judd Nelson as a rebel­MAY 9 o COBRA-Sylvester Stallone 
lious kid who returns to his hometown and Brigitte Nielsen-the Richard Burton 
and discovers someone has killed his fa­and Elizabeth Taylor of the '80s-star in 
ther. It's up to Judd and his young sister, this detective thriller about the search for 
played by Ally Sheedy, to find the mur­a serial killer. 
derers. MAY16 o AFINEMESS-Thisfilmstart­ed as a Laurel and Hardy short called The / Music Box. For his new version, director Blake Edwards added stars Ted Danson
/
I and Howie Mandel, some manic gang­
/ sters, lots of slapstick and several dozen complications, and came up with a full­length movie. If it's half as funny as Stan and Ollie's original, it should prove to be anything but a mess. 
JUNE 6 o BIG TROUBLE IN LITTLE CIDNA-Kurt Russell discovers there's a very scary world existing beneath China­town in his John Carpenter adventure-comedy that's promising to include ev­

erything from kung fu to killer ghosts. 

JUNE 13 o BACK TO SCHOOL-Rod­ney Dangerfield is the owner of a chain of Tall and Fat shops. He decides to become even more well-rounded by returning to school to continue his education. 
JUNE 18 o CLUB PARADISE-This comedy about a singles resort stars Robin Williams, Peter O'Toole, Rick Moranis, Eugene Levy, Twiggy and Andrea Martin, and was directed by Harold Ramis (Na­tional Lampoon's Vacation). With a group like this, it would be hard NOT to be funny 
JUNE 20 o LEGAL EAGLES-Robert Redford's first movie since Out ofAfrica, Debra Winger's first movie since Terms of Endearment, director Ivan Reitman's first movie since Ghostbusters and Daryl Hannah's first since ... well, since the Clarence Clemmons/Jackson Brown vid­eo. It's a murder/mystery/comedy set in the New York law and art scenes. 
JUNE 20 o THE KARATE KID, PART li-The friendship between the teenage boy (Ralph Macchio) and his wise old ka­rate instructor (Pat Morita) continues as the pair travel to Okinawa for more mar­tial arts competition and a chance for the old man to face his memories. 
JUNE 27 o LABYRINTH-David Bowie is one of the the few humans in this fanta­sy adventure from Muppet creater Jim Henson. There's no Kermit or Miss Piggy, but Henson and company have created a whole new world of other characters (so clear off your toy shelves, storeowners). 
JUNE 27 o AMERICAN ANTHEM­

Olympic gold medalist Mitch Gaylord re­turns to the world of gymnastics, but this time as an actor who plays a young man trying to compete while dealing with peer, coaching and parental pressures. Janet Jones plays his girl, and Albert Mag­noli-who helped Prince film Purple 
Rain-is writer and director. 

Far Left: Daryl Hannah sit­ting pretty in Ivan Reitman's new romantic action comedy, LegalEa­gles. Left: George Lucas, David Bowie and Jim Henson combine artistic energies in the fantasy adventure, Labyrinth. 

JUNE 27 <> RUNNING SCARED-Billy Crystal and Gregory Hines play-of all things-"rugged undercover cops" in this action comedy set in the badlands of Chicago. 
JUNE 27 o RAW DEAL-When will those bad guys ever learn? You just don't cross Arnold Schwarzenegger. Here he deals with Chicago mobsters. Guess who's left standing? 
JUNE 27 <> RUTHLFSS PEOPLE-Bette Midler stars as a kidnap victim no one wants-not her millionaire husband, not her hapless kidnappers, no one. Seems she's a bit hard to get along with (not Bette!). Danny DeVito and Judge Reinhold co-star. The directors are the loons who created Airplane!: Zucker, Zucker and Abrams. 
JULY o HEARTBURN-The intriguing star pairing ofMeryl Streep andJack Nich­olson would probably make a movie in-
Kelly McGillis (Witness) and in-training navy fighter pilot Tom Cruise combine forces in Top Gun. Al­though Cruise is in arisky business, he gets serious for this flick. 
teresting if it consisted of readings from the phone book. In this case, however, there's an actual story, and it's an adapta­tion of Nora Ephron's (unofficial) auto­biographical comic novel about the breakup of her marriage to journalist Carl Bernstein. 
JULY o SHORT CIRCUIT-Haywire wir­ing turns a military robot into an AWOL peace activist. Steve Guttenberg is the sci­entist on the robot's trail and Ally Sheedy is the mechanical rebel's new friend. 
JULY 2 <> THE LimE SHOP OF HOR­RORS-First it was a low-budget movie. Then it was an off-Broadway musical. Now it's a big-budget movie musical. It's the story of a nerdy flower shop employ­ee and his people-eating plant which eats and eats until it has swallowed most of the cast. Rick Moranis stars, and Steve Martin and Bill Murray have cameos. 
JULY 2 <> PSYCHO ID-Last time we saw Norman Bates, he was giving his 

HAVE THE RIGHT JOB WAITING THE MINUTE YOU GRADUATE. 

Everything you need to know to land a job at Time, Inc., Young & Rubicam, 
~AN)INTt~f~ 
_______, 
~Mw~•a~s _________# 

Simon & Schuster, Hill & Knowlton and hundreds of other top companies, available exclusively in 
THE CAREER DIRECTORY SERIES 1986 
BOOK PUBLISHING 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Hundreds of the biggest and best employers are scouring campuses for new talent right now. So if you want to break into the lucrative fields of advertising, public relations, magazine or book publishing, start now... not two weeks before graduation. 
The Career Directory Series tells you where the best jobs are and how to land the one that's right for you. With the coopera­tion of these companies, we've identified thousands of entry­level job opportunities, the ones you'll never see in the Want Ads. And we've included practical advice from over 100 of the top professionals in these industries. 
Everything you need to find and get the job you want is here. There's no other resource like the Career Directory Series 1986. 
• E~clusive "Insider's Information" on hundreds of companies in each industry-actual and prospective job openings, edu­cational and skill requirements. the right people to contact, even hints from the companies themselves on breaking down the front door . 

ORDER YOUR COPIES TODAY! Visa or MasterCard orders call toll-free, 1-800-835-2246, ext. 207. (In Kansas, call1-800-362-2421, ext. 207.) Alaska, Hawaii and Canada please use coupon below.
•••,, 
All Orders Must Be Prepaid 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
Visa or MasterCard orders call toll-free. To order using check or money order, clip and mail this coupon to: Career Publishing Corp., 505 Fifth Ave., Suite 1003, New York, NY 1001Z 
Name _______________________________________ 
School ____________________________________ 
Address ___________________________________ 
City/State/Zip 

• 
The most comprehensive listing of school year and summer internships-salaried and non-salaried-available anywhere. 

• 
Practical advice from the experts-articles by top profes­sionals in each field explain all the major areas of job specialization-entry-level job descriptions. career paths. salary ranges and step-by-step instructions for breaking into those departments. 

• 
How to set up a successful job search process-self-evaluation. industry and company research, resumes, cover letters, inter­viewing and more. 

• 
Each book is organized for easy use and completely indexed. 


Getting a job in these glamorous fields is serious business. Get serious. Individual books are available for $24.95 each, or order the entire Career Directory Series for only $89.95. Don't wait until all the best jobs are filled. 
Please send me the books indicated below at $24.95 each or just $89.95 for the entire Series. Add $3.50 per order for shipping and handling. NY State residents please add appropriate sales tax. Unit Price Quantity Total Advertising Career Directory 1986 $24.95 
Magazine Publishing Career Directory 1981i $24.95 Book Publishing Career Directory 1986 $24.95 Public Relations Career Directory 1986 $24.95 Please send me the four-volume set $89.95 Shipping and handling (per order) 3.50 
3.50 

Total enclosed $ 
All orders outside U.S. please add additional10% of total pun:hase price to ~ cover shipping and handling. 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
mother a love pat on the back of the head with a shovel. In this latest outing as both director and star, Anthony Perkins-Nor­man is back at the front desk of the Bates Hotel and ready for business. 
JULY 18 o ALIENS-You knew it wasn't over yet, didn't you? In this sequel to Alien, Sigourney Weaver learns why the title is plural when she returns to Earth and discovers she and her cat haven't been traveling alone. 
JULY 25 o UNDER THE CHERRY MOON-Prince now becomes a film di­rector (the rumor that he's running for the U.S. Senate in Minnesota has been de­nied). This time around, he portrays a pi­ano player in 1930s P'&ris. 
JULY 25 o OUT OF BOUNDS-Anthony Michael Hall gets serious, playing a young man who's chased by police who won't believe that he hasn't commited a crime. (What about Weird Science?) 
MAY 16 o SWEET LIBERTY-If you haven't seen Alan Aida for a while, it's because he's been writing, directing and starring in this comedy about an historian who's trying to keep his patience with the filmmakers who are producing a movie from one of his hooks. 
MAY 21 o THE MANHATTAN PRO JECT-A teenager gets carried away in 
his pursuit of a good grade when he builds his own nuder bomb for science class. John Lithgow is one of the co-stars. 
MAY 23 <> TOP GUN-Tom Cruise is the lead fly boy in this rousing drama about the young men who train to be Navy fight­er pilots. Cruise is joined in the air by Anthony Edwards and Val Kilmer. 
MAY 23 <> POLTERGEIST II: THE OTHER SIDE-They got rid of that TV set and moved to Arizona, but those darned ghosts just won't leave them alone. The original cast returns for more thrills and chills. 
JUNE <> FERRIS BUELLER'S DAY OFF-After devoting time lately to the angst of teenage life, writer-director John Hughes has decided it's time to celebrate the fun stuff. Matthew Broderick stars as an expert adult manipulator who leads his friends on an exciting day of skipping school and seeking adventure. 

ON THE 
ROAD 
A 
s we go to press, there is still some doubt whether the Rolling Stones will tour in 1986 in support of their new album Dirty Work. Keith Richards startled reporters when he announced that MickJagger has nixed plans to go on the road this year. "Mick is the only one preventing us from touring," said Rich­ards. ''As far as I'm concerned, the Stones should go on the road. We have a good album coming out and we would all en­joy it" . . . Van Halen launched their eight-month American tour on March 27 in Shreveport, La ... This year marks the 20th anniversary of the Monkees and in­side sources say there will he a celebra­tion world tour to honor the event with at least three and possibly all four of the original members . . . Faces, the early '70s hard rock group that included Rod Stewart, Ron Wood and Ronnie Lane, will reunite for a one-time only reunion concert later this spring. Proceeds from benefit concert will go to fight both ltiple Sclerosis (the disease Lane is af-JJicted with) and AIDS. Look for a possi­ble MTV simulcast ... Yoko Ono brings her "Starpeace" world concert tour to the States, beginning April lOth in New York City. . Emerson, Lake and Powell plan to hit the road in April may be delayed because several custom-built keyboards to be used during the tour have been damaged. Seems a tractor accidentally crashed through Keith Emerson's studio 

in Sussex, England, where the keyboards were housed ... Frank Sinatra, Lionel Richie, Kenny Rogers and Willie Nel­son will star together in a concert at the Meadowlands in New York during the weekend of July 4th to mark the closing of the lOOth anniversary celebration of the Statue of Liberty ... ELO's first tour in four years began in England on March 15. The event, called "Heartbeat '86," was a benefit concert for a local children's hos­pital ... Miami Sound Machine, the first act in the history of Billboard Magazine to appear on the pop, black, Latin and dance charts simultaneously, has launched its first U.S. tour. They just wrapped up a 9-month tour in the rest of the world ... Ozzy OsHboume's tour, which hit the U.S. in March, features an elaborate stage set that includes a 50-foot winged monster with an Ozzy face, a creature last seen on the cover of his cur­rent album, The Last Sin ... The Firm kicked off their U.S. tour in Tampa, Flori­da on March 14 ... Pat BenaHtar wrapped up her 30-city tour in Honolulu on April 5 with a very positive note: "It just seems that live concerts are the one thing that never gets old, the one thing I never get tired of" ... Big Country has begun a British tour in support of its new album. No plans yet for the States ... Autograph, the American hard rock band, and Autograph, the Russian band that appeared on "Live Aid," have both been invited to perform at the \\lncouver World Fair this summer. (The big ques­tion, of course, is whether they'll ask for each other's autographs) ... Simple Minds' current U.S. tour will run through May. 
Top: Dramatic Ozzy Osbourne currently on tour ... Let's hope this al­bum win be his last sin. Center: Van Halen on tour with Sammy Hagar as the pseudo David Lee Roth. Right: Will the prolific Mick join up with The Rolling Stones for their new album's tour? 

NEW 
BOOKS 

The Roomate Connection, Suzanne M. Hagapian. Wrestling with roommate rela­tions? Try these straightforward guide­lines for making your roommate experi­ence functional and fun. From the general practicalities of understanding your lease and the building blocks of good roommate communication to the specific "dirty dishes in the sink"syn­drome, this light-toned guide offers sound advice. 
Galapagos, Kurt Vonnegut. This com­mentary on human character and society is set a million years in the future. He takes us back to 1986 A.D. and shows, over that time, what became of the de­scendants of a shipwrecked cruise to the Galapagos Islands through the eyes of a Vietnam Veteran ghost. Bizarre and en­gaging. 
One Human Minute, Stanislaw Lem. This Polish writer propels us into the fu­ture with the intriguing, unique subject of what everyone on earth is doing during a single moment in a super-"World Alma­nac" form that crosses science fiction with philosophy. 
Mark My Words, Letters of a Business­man to his Son, G. Kingsley Ward. Professional advice and personal senti­ment are woven together in this guide to understanding and succeeding in the business world. A self-made millionaire who thought he was dying, Ward related his secrets of success to his son in the areas of negotiation, leadership and en­trepreneurship. The result: Excellent ad­vice for anyone. 
Million Selling Records, joseph Mur­rells. Music and movie buffs, look out! From Busse ("Wang Wang Blues," 1920) to the Beatles to Benatar, this mega-guide includes details of every million-selling record, biographies of artists, films and shows which spawned hits and photo­graphs galore. 

VIDEO 
EVENTS 

JUNE <> MTV will premiere "MTV Inter­national Hour," sixty minutes of contem­porary videos from around the world, in­corporating lifestyle profiles ofJapanese, Brazilian and European artists. 
Watch I!BO for Tambourine Man Bob Dylan's one-hour concert special, filmed during his Australian tour with backup band Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. 
Do you hear dump trucks roaring through your living room when you watch TV? 

If you hear bullets ricocheting across your living room, turbulent water falls crashing down the stairs when you watch TV, you possibly already have a Teledap­ter. However, if you don't, read on. 
Hyou have a TV and a stereo system you can enjoy the excitement you've been missing ... now! ·The Teledapter's unique electronics will combine your TV and stereo into a powerful entertainment center that would easily cost thousands of dollars. Imagine having the best front row seats in town for your ball games, musicals, and movies. 
Teledapter works with any TV, VCR, or satellite receiver, regardless of age or model, and conveniently plugs into the auxiliary, tape, or tuner input on any stereo amplifier or receiver system. All TV, satellite, cable, and VCR programs will have the same powerful sound as your stereo system and speakers. 
HOW 
All Teledapters contain Stereo-Plex111 syn~ thesizer circuitry for all mono TV's and VCR's. It transforms their sound into sparkling twO<hannel stereo effects. Got a stereo TV or VCR? No problem. Just plug them in (TE~250). Since most TV and cable programming is mono, the Stereo-Plex circuitry will pick up where your stereo TV or VCR stops short. 
Mono sounds, even when played through two speakers, appear to come from one direction-the center. 
Stereo sounds come from two directions. The stereo/ mono test is really simple: Plug the Teledapter up, push the 

ILISTENER!
mono/stereo but~ ton on your stereo. 
When you go from 
mono to stereo, J.is.
~ ~ 
ten to the sounds ~§ spread out across 
the room. Perform
lLISTENERl 
the test without a Teledapter, and a mono signal will remain in the center. 

The TE-100 Tele­
syn­thesizer circuit. Its 
one isolated low 
TE-100 impedance input allows it to be connected directly to the speaker terminals or earphone jack of the TV, and then its left and right outputs are plugged into the left and right inputs on the stereo. The isolated input provides total chassis isolation between the TV and stereo for complete protection of both components. The TV and stereo may be located any distance apart. 
BETTER 
The TE-200 has all of the same qualities of the TE-100, plus a Type 2 Stereo-Plex synthesizer that gives more defined stereo separation; plus a high impedance input that allows the TE-200 to be connected directly off your VCR audio output, which is convenient if your TV doesn't have any outputs; plus an output level control for optimum level adjustment of the audio signal. 

BEST 
The TE-250 has all of the qualities of both the TE-100 and TE-200, plus a Type 3 Stereo-Plex1'11 synthesizer for even greater defined separation; plus the latest integrated circuit design; plus stereo inputs that allow this unit to be used with a stereo, VCR, or TV; plus a bypass fea­ture allowing the synthesizer to be cut off, allowing a stereo source to pass through; plus multiple inputs that expand the input capabilities of your stereo; plus a tape monitor loop that allows the TE-250 to be used with everything coming through your stereo-AM, tapes, records, etc. 

~  Tctllldoptat  
~  ~  
RIIOAIIEI"  11•PA11>  'o.J•CI  
..  

* MADE IN AMERICA * 
Each one of these products is designed and manufactured in the U.S. by the company that invented Good 'IV Listen· ing twelve years ago. Each unit is meticulously built to give lasting quality and years of service. 
Offmng our products direct enables us to be sure that the salesperson you talk with is able to handle your order knowledgeably. 
All Teledapter models come with com~ plete instructions, cables, and our HELP­line phone number. Should your Tele­dapter ever need service, it will be repaired quickly and correctly. 
r--------------­
I 

TRY A TELEDAPTER®
I 

ATNO RISK
I 

I Take the first 30 days with Teledapter as I a test. If you're not completely satisfied, I return it for a complete refund and your mailing costs. You can't lose. Teledapter is
I 

also backed with a two-year warranty on
I 

parts and labor.
I 

Teledapter TE-100, $19.95 plus $3.00
I 

postage and handling.
I 

Teledapter TE-200, $39.95 plus $3.00 postage and handling. Teledapter TE-2SOA, $69.95 plus $4.00 postage and handling. 
TOLL FREE l-800-251-8608 
In Tennessee call 1-615-381-9001 
24 Hours 


Send mail orders to address below. Credit card and money orders processed immedi­
I 

ately. Checks require 18 days.
I I 

Turn your TV and stereo into a : RIIOADE'
I I NATIONAL CORPORATION
powerful entertainment center I Department 223 I Highway 99 East • P.O. Box 1316
with TELEDAPTER® 

Columbia, 1N 38402
I I 


CLASSIFIEOS 

MOVIE POSTERS 
Actual posters as used by theatres -from "Aguirre" to "Zellg."lobby co1rds, stills, much more. Best selection. FAST SERVICEf Huge catalogue $2.00 (refundable). 
,, :11~1t ~'""\ ,t~lllr., 
P 0 BOX 1012 DEPT A MUSKEGON. MICHIGAN 49443 
DO YOU LOVE GIRLS? 
Baseball T -shirt with St. Pauli Girl beer logo on front. "I • girls" on back. White with red sleeves. high quality, 50/50 blend, perfect for summer. $11.95 + $ 1.50 shipping per shirt, maximum shipping charge is $ 4.50, CA resi­dents add 6 % sales tax. Sizes S M L and XL. Send to THE BEER SHOP, 450 Lakeville St., #519, Petaluma. CA 94952. For more info. on our other baseball shirts, sweatshirts, hats and mirrored beer signs, please send long SASE to address above. Have a great summer. 
BEST PLACE TO STAY IN NEW YORK CITY! 
Safe, clean, convenient Central Park West loca­tion-close to Midtown businesses, theatres. museums. Lincoln Center; all subway lines. Se­curity, concierge, & maid service. In-house din­ing facility. Free use of Health Center. Singles from $25. doubles from $36. Reservations rec­
ommended. 
WEST SIDE YMCA 5 West 63rd St., New York, NY 10023 (212) 787-4400 ext.123 
BEGINNERORADVANCED-Costisaboutthe same as a semester in a U.S. college:$3.670. Price includes jet round trip to Seville from New York, room. board, and tuition com­plete. Government grants and loans may be applied towards our programs. 
-----------------w;:5-l 
1 
1 
I
college you anend 
1 
-,o-u-,n-am-.-------------I 
your present s1ree1 address 
City s1a1e 
"P 
II you would like Information on fulur• program• give 
permanent eddrell below. 
your permanent slreet address 
Clly slate 
"P 
22 Ampersand 
MOVIE POSTERS,SCRIPTS. 
Thousands. ALL CURRENT Classics, Foreign, Rock. Visa/Mastercard-48 HOUR SERVICE-(904) 373-7202. Bro­chure $1. RICK'S, Suite 3E-A2, 1105 North Main, Gainesville, Florida 32601. 
DIET, TANNING, STIMULANT AND OTHER TABLETS 
Sample packs with FREE color catalogue. Send $3 your choice of any two, or $5 for all four samples. REACH PHARMACEUTICALS, 5219­EC Hixson Pike, Hixson, TN 37343 
f~ 
AWC MARKETING SERVICES 
Alan Weston Communications Marketing 
Services, one of the nation's largest college 
marketing firms is now accepting appli,·a­
tions for campus representatives to imple­
ment on-campus projects including advertis­
ing, movie screenings, product samplings 
and market research. 
Interested applicants should send their re­
sumes to: Campus Reps, AWC Marketing 
Services, 303 N. Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 
600, Burbank, CA 91'i02. 
products, get the word out with your black and 
Live with a Spanish family, attend classes four hours a day, four days a week, four months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over a two year time span). Your Spanish studies will be enhanced by opportunities not available in a 
U.S. classroom. Standardized tests show our students'languageskillssuperiortostudents 
completing two year programs in U.S. Advanced courses also. 
Hurry, it takes a lot of time to make all ar­rangements. 
SPRING SEMESTER-Jan. 30 ·May 29 FALL SEMESTER-Aug. 29 ·Dec. 19 
each year. FULLY ACCREDITED-A Program of Trinity Christian College. 
For full information-send coupon to: 
SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
2065 Laraway Lake Dnve S.E. M-5 Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 


Major anthology now seeks poems: love, nature, haiku, religious, song lyrics, reflective, free verse-all types! Beginners welcome! Our editors will reply within 7 days. Send ONE POEM ONLY, 211ines or less, to: WORLD OF POETRY PRESS Dept. AM • 2431 Stockton • Sacramento, CA 95817 
..------·INTRODUCING·------· 

·eRYPTEJBJ§e 
THE NEW $10,000 MUSIC CHALLENGE IJ9ENTIFY 
"TOP 40" SONG TITLES 
BY 

LISTENING TO EXCERPTS FROM 
ORIGINAL SONGS 

SEND $12.95 PLUS $1.00 (POSTAGE AND HANDLING) KY. RESIDENTS ADD 5% SALES TAX 
TO:I!RTPfiiDISI!.IHI!.• P.O.BOX13010

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY 40583·3010 C QUICK ORDER PHONE (606) 259-0.ftl 
''' 
The first thing 
we do, 
let's kill all the 
lawyers 
II KlNJVI 
white on black 
--(}j 
brown on tan or on light blue 
NUTRITION QUIZ Which one is the 
i"'"'~ 
8j g b)\"~~ 
brown on tan or on white 

.50 EACH 
Behind Every Successful Woman i5 Herself 
black on red or on fuschia 

NUKE A 
T-SHIRTS $7.50 EACH 
Sizes SIM/lJXL (all colton unless noutd) 
Add $1 poslage per order -Free catak>g -NORTHtRN SUN MERCHANDISING 
eo, A 
2736 Lyndale Ave. S. Mpls , MN 55408 









