Hesburgh letter -page 5 

VOL. XXI. NO. .34 MONDA~ OCTOBER 1.3, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Arms control progress stalls as leaders dispute Star Wars 
Associated Press 
REYKJAVIK, Iceland-Presi­dent Reagan and Mikhail Gor­bachev, reportedly on the verge of an agreement to destroy all their offensive nu­clear weapons over the next 
I 0 years, ended their summit in · disappointment Sunday over a dispute concerning the testing of American "Star Wars" technology. 
The hangup Involved the Soviets' insistence that re­search on the anti-missile sys­tem be confined to laboratory work. Reagan declared, "This we could not and will not do," 
Gorbachev said that he made "very serious, unprece­dented concessions and ac­cepted compromises that are unprecedented." But he said there was a "rupture" over 
U.S. Insistence on being al­lowed to test space weapons outside the laboratory. "Who was going to accept that?" he said. "It would have taken a madman to accept that." 
The Iceland impasse was so complete that the leaders did not set a date for a third su­perpower meeting. and the fu­ture of arms control talks was left in doubt. 
Gorbachev told reporters "the Americans came to this meeting empty handed," and top Soviet official Georgi Ar­batov described the summit here as "the dead end to which they (the Americans) have driven the whole issue ofarms control." 
Secretary of State George Shultz said the two sides had verbally agreed to slash long­range missile and bomber aresenals in half in five years and completely by 1996. In addition, they were prepared to eliminate all but 100 medium-range missiles on each side -including all those deployed in Europe -during the first five-year phase and the balance of those in 1996 as well, Shultz said. 

"A tremendous amount of headway was made," he told a news conference here, "but in the end we couldn't make it." 
The problem: U.S. insis­tence on proceeding with test­ing of the Strategic Defense Initiative ("Star Wars") with the idea of using it a decade from now as an "insurance policy" to prevent any enemy from launching a successful nu­clear strike, Shultz said. 
Reagan was greeted at Andrews Air Force Base by his wife, Nancy. The two embraced and kissed several times before boarding a helicopter for the ride to­gether back to the White House. 
see SUMMIT, page 3 


APPhoto 

U.S. President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev stand together on the steps of the Hofdi In ReykJavik, Iceland, where the superpower summit meeting on disarmament ended Sunday. See story at left. 
Clarke Memorial Fountain to be dedicated at Friday mass 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's memorial foun­tain honoring alumni war dead will be dedicated with a Mass at 4 p.m. Friday, Oct. 17. 
The Clarke Memorial Fountain, named after the Chicago couple who provided the principal fun­ding. was built to commemorate the estimated 500 Notre Dame alumni who died In World War II, Korea, and Vietnam. Another memorial on campus com­memorates World War I alumni dead. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will be prin­cipal celebrant of the Mass, which will be said at the site. The Notre Dame band and Chapel Choir will participate, as well as contingents from the Army, Navy, and Air Force Reserve Of­ficer Training Corps detach­ments on campus. 
Representatives from area vet­era·ns' and military groups have also been invited to join faculty, staff, and students in the obser­vance. The homily will be preached by Monsignor Francis Sampson, assistant to the pres­ident for military affairs at the University. Sampson is a retired major general who served as the Army's chief of chaplains from 1967 to 1971. 
The major benefaction for the memorial came from the late Mrs. John Clarke in memory of her husband, a member of the Advisory Council for the College of BusinessAdministration at the University until his death in 
198.3. Mrs. Clarke, a former offi­cer in the Army Nurse Corps, died in September 1985. A 1964 Notre Dame alumnus, ·Tholl)as Shuff of Lake Forest, III., gave the initial gift in 198.3 that al­lowed planning of the memorial to begin. 
Design of the memorial was done by Notre Dame architecture alumni John Burgee and Philip Johnson. Cole Associates of South Bend assisted them. 
The fountain's four arches, reminiscent of England's Stonehenge, consist of sand-· colored limestone columns and caps. Each of the columns Is 20 feet high, five feet square and weighs 20 tons. The columns are capped by four 10-foot lime­stone pieces. Within each arch Is a fountain. In the center of the pool, which forms the base of the memorial, Is a 4-foot brown granite sphere. Three of the stone caps bear inscriptions identifying the wars In which Notre Dame alumni have served and died within the past forty-five years. A fourth bears the Latin Inscription "Pro Patria et Pace," which means "For our country and peace." 
Following the Mass, Father Hesburgh will bless the memorial, and remarks will be made by Lieutenant General Win­field Scott, Jr., superintendent of the u.s. Air Force Academy In Colorado. Scott graduated from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point In 1950 and subsequently received a master's degree In In­ternational law and relations from the catholic University of America In Washington, D.C. He was appointed to his current post in June 198.3. 
The dedicatory plaque, written by. Father Hesburgh, ends with these words, "This is our prayer: that all living Notre Dame men and women dedicate themselves to the service oftheir country and 
world peace." 



Rescuers search for quake victims 
Associated Press workers dug through rubble tored and distribution of water 
seeking more survivors. · has begun. 
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador­There was no official casualty Many countries, including the Rescuers digging through col­count. United States and El 'Salvador's lapsed buildings pulled out three The International Red Cross neighbors, Mexico and more survivors Sunday, but offi­said in Geneva on Sunday that Nicaragua, pledged to send aid, cials said it was impossible to .350 people were killed and 6, BOO including emergency supplies determine how many people injured, with 600 requiring and rescue teams. remain buried following an hospitalization. It said about .30 The downtown area and shan­earthquake that killed hundreds. people were still trapped under tytowns on the outskirts of the 
Jose Morales Chavez, a Sal­debris. capital were hardest hit. The vadoran Red Cross coordinator, presidential palace, the U.S. em­said three more people were President Jose Napoleon bassy, six major hospitals and rescued from the wreckage ofthe Duarte said Saturday that at least several schools were severely Ruben Dario building. .300 people were killed, 6, 500 in­damaged. At least seven major 
Rescuers pulled at least 24 sur­jured and many more believed buildings collapsed. vivors from that building and an­trapped in the rubble. Four American volunteers with other on Saturday and had The Red Cross said the homes trained dogs helped in the search worked through the night under of about 40,000 families were for bodies, crawling with their the glare of lights in hopes of damaged, and that 20,000 animals through dark tunnels finding others. Aftershocks from people were left homeless. and passageways. Friday's quake meanwhile con­The organization said immedi­"It takes experience and some tinued to rock the city. . ate medical needs have been guts," said Caroline Hebard, 42, 
"It is impossible to say how met, and no epidemics are of Bernardsville, N.J., who also many more are trapped," said feared. It said electricity has helped in the rescue efforts in Dr. Antonio Sliva carranza, a been restored to about 60 per­the Sept. 19, 1985, earthquake member of a volunteer cent ofSan Salvador, the capital. 
see QUAKE, page 4 

Guatemala rescue squad, as Telephone service is being res­
----~----------~--­

The Observer Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 2 

Time can fly from your grasp if you don't learn to use it 
Tempus fugit. Time flies. Everyone has heard this cliche at one time or another. Time does seem 


In Brief 
Michael Langthorne has been appointed to the position of assistant director ofeducational media at Notre Dame, replac­Ing Alfred Large, Jr., who resigned to become director of media services for the South Bend Community School Cor­poration. -The Observer 
·$49,900 has been granted to Saint Mary's as part of a curriculum-development award from Lilly Endowment, Inc. for the College's Writing Proficiency Program, College Presi­dent William Hickey has announced. Saint Mary's will use the grant to reduce teaching loads, develop a writing center and reference collection, and provide funds for outside consul­tants to teach faculty workshops. -The Observer 
The International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftsmen, BAC, will hold Its annual three-day leadership conference from today until Wednesday at the Center for Continuing Education. Focusing on the new directions the 120-year-old union is taking, the conference will draw ap­proximately 200 officers from U.S. and Canadian locals. BAC President John Joyce, a Notre Dame alumnus, will preside at the conference. -The Observer 
Students do not read any newspaper other than The Uni­versity Dally at Texas Tech, a readership survey showed. Half of those surveyed read nothing but the school paper, and .3.3 percent depend on It for their state and national news. Only 10 percent read the paper for local news items. The results surprised the paper's editors, who had given local news priority over state and national stories. -The Observer 
An alligator at Walt Disney World campground atta~ked an 8-year-old boy Sunday, biting him on the left leg. The boy suffered only superficial cuts which according to his doctor do not require surgery. The 7-foot, 4-inch female reptile was shot by game commission agents. A Disney spokesman said that as far as he knows it was the first such attack at the sprawling theme park. -Associated Press 
Riot gear was used by South Bend Jaw enforcement officers Friday to remove an inmate from a cell in the St. Joseph County Jail after the inmate, Robert Reed, 27, and about 15 others refused to allow officers inside. Reed surrendered after about 20 officers and two pollee dogs were called In to remove him. Soap was placed on the jail floor to make It slippery for officers. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Director of the United States government's office of Wo­men's Business Ownership, Carol Crockett, will speak tonight at 6:.30 In Madeieva Hall's Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. Everyone Is welcome to this free talk. -The Observer 
"New Class Theories and Beyond" Is the topic of tonight's lecture by Ivan Szelenyl. The talk will be given at 7 p.m. In Room 124 of the Center for Social Concerns. The Hungarian­born Szelenyi Is speaking as part ofthe Notre Dame Sociology Department's Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series. Szelenyl Is the director of the Center for Social Research and Executive Officer of the Sociology Program of the Graduate School of the City University of New York. -The Observer 
Hot Tips on financial aid for undergraduate and graduate students are available In a free pamphlet offered to the public by the Great Potentials Resource Center. The pamphlet, "Hot Tips," presents Important "Do's and Don'ts " to guide both Inexperienced high school students and well-seasoned graduate students. To obtain the pamphlet, call toll-free 1­800-USA-1221, extension 6101 or write to GPRC Hot Tips, 2529 North Richmond Street, Chicago, IL 60647, specifying the need for undergraduate or graduate school aid informa­tion. -The Observer 

Weather 
The Big Chill continues with consider­able cloudiness, a chance of drizzle and a high around 50 today. Tonight the low will sink to the upper .30s with partly cloudy skies. No change is predicted for Tuesday In which the high is expected to be in the low ~Os with partly cloudy skies. -Associ­


ated Press 
=--==Ihe~Dbserver 
Design Editor. ........ Kathy Huston Accent Copy Editor . ..... Lisa Young Design Assistant ...... Tom Schiesser Accent Layout . ..... Melinda Murphy Typesellers ....... Becky Gunderman Typists ............... Colleen Foy News Editor ............. Jim Riley ND Day Editor. ...... Laurine Megna Copy Editor . ........... Chris Julka Ad Design . ............ Fred Nelson Sports Copy Editor ..... Marty Burns Photographer ........... Greg Kohr Viewpoint Layout. ... Kathleen Moran 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
to pass too quickly, especially when we're having fun. But what is Time? 
Time is so difficult to grasp, science doesn't even define it. Man can't define it, but yet he measures it. Time is a medium with which we live and work. 
We all know there are countless things that can be done in time. The problem is there never seems to be enough of it. How often have we wished for more time to finish a problem on an exam or more time to turn in a paper or just more time to relax? It seems we simply can't get enough time to do either what we want or have to do. 
Since this is the case, our job is to make the best use of the time we have. The hard part, of course, Is doing just that. Whenever I look at the schedule of things I have to do for a class, I can't avoid thinking "How am I going to get all this done?" Once I realize I have to finish a book (or two), complete homework assignments for four different classes, study for an upcoming exam, and call home all within the period of one weekend, I really get nervous. I ask myself, "Where are you going to start?" Then It occurs to me the best place to begin is at the beginning. It's usually quite helpful to remember the proverb, "Ajourney of a thousand miles begins with a single step." 
Of course, the sooner that journey is begun, the sooner It can be finished. My mother always reminded me of this when I tended to put things off. If we allow ourselves to, we can get into the dangerous habit of putting things off until later. A classic statement of laziness Is "''m going to stop procrastinating, starting tomorrow." Some­times, tomorrow never comes. English humorist 
G.K. Chesterfield said: "Know the true value of time; snatch, seize and enjoy every moment of it. No idleness; no laziness; no procrastination ­never put off till tomorrow what you can do today." We should take this advice seriously. It can only help us In the long run. 
As freshmen at Notre Dame, we were advised to e'1ioy our years here because they pass too quickly. Alas, It is too true. I discovered this after graduating from high school. Remembering the words of my principal, "Get involved and enjoy It while you're here. By the time you're a senior you'll wonder where it went," I was astonished to learn how right he was. Others have told me, "College Is something you only do once-do well but enjoy it." Nobody said It was going to be easy to do both, but we should certainly try. 

Regis Coccia 
Copy Editor 

Time is a curious thing. We never really possess it, but we can do an infinite number of things with it. Time can be spent. bought. used, and even killed. This is a serious sin. Swiss theologian John Lavater said: "The great rule of moral conduct, next to God, Is to respect time." The worst thing anyone can do is to do nothing. Sins of omission are equally as culpable as sins of commission. 
We must remember that we are mortal beings. It's a fact of life we will someday die. But if we make use of our time on earth we can carry our­selves Into eternity. 
Let's also remember that we can't stop time. "Time drags inexorably onward," my senior En­glish teacher often said. There is virtually no limit to what we can learn, here at Notre Dame and throughout life. But the greatest thing we can learn, greater than any mathematical formula or scientific concept, greater than any Jaw of eco­nomics or literary masterpiece, is how to use time. 
March of Dimes


Celebrate 

Help the 
FightLife! Birth Defects 
~--·-----~ -·~---------------­
Wis1h your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
---~---~ 
'---------------­







~Goclfatht:r•s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it.™ 
~UNDAY & MONDAY SPECIALS 
CI..IP AND .SA t'E 
I MEDIUM THIN CRUST PIZZA WITH ONE I 
I TOPPING PLUS EXTRA CHEESE PLUS A I 
I TWO LITER BOTTLE OF COKE I 
I $5.25 plus tax & delivery Godfathar's I 
I ~Pizza. 1
o-.....pon ,... pW,. •• porticipoJio« J..,.lio....
I 
Not valid in eombi.n.t&lioo with any other offer. ----~ • Find ~. 
• Offer expires 10/27/86 . Its worth II. I 
~--------------------~ 

We Deliver to a Limited A rea 
52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN 
The Observer Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 3 


Reagan set to blame 
Srd Floor, LaFortune Student center 

stalemate on Soviets
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Exec. Vice President, Adworks 

Summit 
continued from page 1 
Asked on his return to the White House about the summit, the president said only: "tune In tomorrow night." 
Reagan scheduled a report to 
the American people on Monday night from the Oval Office of the White House. 
Shultz said U.S. leaders were "deeply disappointed" in the out­come. His early evening state­
paid advertisement 
ment, the first word on the sum­
SENIORS: 


mit outcome, followed hours of high hopes built upon state­ments ofprogress issued by both sides. 
Oorbachev told reporters in his post-summit news conference, as he did after the 1985 Geneva summit, that "the world situation is very dangerous" and that "there is a shortage of new think­Ing" among U.S. arms control ex­
perts. Nonethetess, he said the
EXPLORE YOUR DESIRE TO SERVE, 
progress in some areas amounted to "substantial gains 
here In Reykjavik." Reagan, talking to American military personnel at Keflavik 
TO LEARN, TO GROW, TO LOVE 
with HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES IN CHILE 
Naval Air Base just before he boarded Air Force One for the
A TWO-YEAR POST-GRADUATE COMMITMEN: 
nearly six-hour ride back to Washington, said the two sides
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
had "moved toward agreement"
MARYANN ROEMER JANE PITZ 
on drastic reductions In Intermediate-range weapons In Europe and Asia and on other 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS HCA OFFICE-MOREAU 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7 
issues. 
Actors and Tech Crews meet for Good 
ND COMMUNICATIONS and 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre will hold a general meeting on Monday, October 13 at 7:00 P.M, in the Laboratory Theatre at 
and THEATRE 
Washington Hall for the purpose of auditions and interviews for actors, 
announces
musicians, technical and publicity crews for the upcoming production of 
C.P. Taylor's GOOD. The auditions will continue Tuesday evening with call backs 
Auditions for 
Wednesday evening at 7:00P.M also in the Laboratory Theatre. Actors should have a 2-minute prepared audition and also be prepared to sing a 


GOOD 
song of their choice. Any actors who play musical instruments should bring them and be prepared to play them. Technical and Publicity crew contracts will be distributed at the 
Tonight 7:00pm 
meeting. All those interested in a crew position should attend. Anyone NOT able to attend should contact: Actors: Mark Pilkinton 239-5134; 
Tomorrow by appointment
Technical Crew: Will Neuert 239-5048; Publicity Crew: Nancy O'Connor 283-3829 All are welcome and encouraged to attend. Please bring a calendar with your conflicts from Oct. 16 through Dec. 7. For more 
For information, call239-5134 
information call the Theatre Department at 239-5134. 
develop, test and deploy a 

· defense against nuclear missiles for the people of the free world." "This we could not and will not do," Reagan said as he began his journey back to the White House. 
Three weeks before an Ameri­can election day, Reagan will want to convince voters, mem­bers of Congress and allies that Star Wars is worth the worldwide chill that could spread from remote Iceland. The Soviets presumedly hoped to take ad­vantage of the pre-election mood to spur Reagan toward an agree­ment. 
The first challenge could come from Democratic-controlled House of Representatives, which last week backed down from a vote freezing funds for Star Wars research and calling for America to join a Soviet moratorium on nuclear weapons testing. 
The next challenge will come not to Reagan himself, but to the narrow Repi,Jbllcan majority In the Senate, a margin that has been key to the administration's military and foreign policy. 
Soviet officials have made clear that they are prepared to walt for the next president to pursue their own vision of arms control. 

Oct. 10, 1986 
Dear Notre Dame Community: 
In the October 1Oth issue of the Observer an advertisement was run on page six advertising the "Taste of Nations" event. The artwork and layout for this ad was submitted by Adworks to the Observer. It has been brought to my attention that the ad contained an offensive symbol, which resembles a swastika sign, on it. I agree that the containing of the swastika-like flag was both distasteful and unprofessional and was in no way condoned by the executive management of Adworks. The mistake took place in the lower levels of our organization without our knowledge of it. It is no less still my responsibility as its Executive Vice President, and in charge of operations, to see to it that all work done has been approved before going out. This work, however, did not gain that approval. The parties involved have been reprimanded and are being dealt with internally. However, the mistake has been made and I sincerely apologize for it. Steps will be taken to insure that all of the organizations listed as sponsors will be disassociated with the responsibility of this mistake. assure you that it will not happen again. I hope that this event will not have a lasting effect on the reputation of our organization as a whole. 
Sincerely yours, 

Scott C. Morrison 
Associated Press 
REYKJAVIK. Iceland-President Reagan will be attempting in a planned television address Mon­day night to convince the world that Soviet intransigence is at fault for the summit stalemate in Iceland and that his Star Wars program is worth the price of stalled arms reductions. 
To protect his Strategic Defense Initiative, as Star Wars is formally known, Reagan ap­parently declined an agreement under which the superpowers would sharply reduce nuclear weapons over a 1 0-year period. 
Star Wars, as his program is commonly known, did not exist as an arms control issue before Reagan unveiled it in March 198.3 as a plan to use exotic weapons to knock out incoming strategic missiles. 
But it emerged from the sum­
mit as the central issue in East­
West relations, the issue the 
Soviets say is blocking accord in 
all fronts. 
Reagan said that "While both 
sides seek reduction in the num­
ber of nuclear missiles and war­
heads threatening the world, the 
Soviet Union insisted that we 
sign an agreement that would 
deny to me and to future presi­
dents for 10 years the right to 
But, the president said, "there remained at the end of our talks one area of disagreement ... The Soviet Union Insisted that we sign an agreement that would deny to me and to future presi­dents for 10 years the right to develop, test and deploy a defense against nuclear missiles for the people of the free world." 
Shultz told reporters, "The two leaders just decided they were not able to agree. At that point, the two leaders, being unable to agree, acljourned." 
Asked whether there would be another summit meeting be­tween Reagan and Oorbachev, Arbatov said, "If the Americans do not change their position on this basic issue, I am afraid not." 
Shultz said the leaders had nearly agreed on ways "to deal effectively with intermediate range missiles," and had made progress toward an agreement on limiting underground nuclear tests, but that the potential agreements failed to materialize because all the parts were Interr­elated. 
"It became more and more clear that the Soviet Union's ob­jective was effectively to kill off the SDI program, and to do so by seeking a change in the ABM treaty that would so constrain . . . that research would not be able to proceed forcefully," he said. 
"The president . . . simply would not turn away from the basic Interest of the United States' allies In the free world by abandoning this." 
He said Reagan had been prepared to agree to a 1 0-year period of nonwithdrawal from the Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty, during which "the United States was prepared to do . . . testing ... permitted by theABM treaty." 
Shultz said the Soviets insisted on "a change In the ABM (anti­ballistic missile) treaty . . . that would confine research and test­ing and development to the lab­oratory." 
He added: "there's nothing In the ABM treaty about that so this would definitely be a change. They described It as a strengthening," butAmerican of­ficials found It unacceptable. 

The Observer Monday, October 13, 1986, -page 4 

Gone to the dogs 

Corporal Gavin J. Reardon holds Marine mascot PFC Dan Daly, as the Bulldog pup gets his tlrst 
LaRouche records seized in raid 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal inves­tigators, with more than two truckloads of seized records to sort through, are focusing on obstruction ofjustice charges as they try to unravel political ex­tremist Lyndon LaRouche's net­work of organizations. 
After nearly two years of inves­tigating what U.S. attorney Henry Hudson called "an organiza­tional policy of fraud and bilking," the government last week raided LaRouche's Virginia headquarters and indicted several of his inner circle mem­bers, his fund-raisers and as­sorted corporations and commit­tees. 
The government provided a broad look at its case last week In persuading a federal magistrate to hold without bond two top LaRouche lieutenants facing obstructon charges. 
That evidence touched LaRouche himself, who has not 


Quake 
continued from page 1 
in Mexico City that killed at least 9, 500 people. 
"You look at the building and assess the risk." said Mrs. Hebard. "''ve seen some build­Ings so shaky that I wouldn't go ln." 
"The problems inside are very serious," added Marcos Efren Zavlnana Guadarrama ofMexico. "There are areas where people could be trapped and still be alive, but we cannot know until we reach them." 
On Saturday, 21 people were pulled alive from the rubble of the five-story Ruben Darla down­town office building, and three women were rescued from the been charged but who prosecutors contend "dominates and controls" an organization charged with conspiracy to obstruct justice. 
It also shed light on what is one of the most bizarre political organizations ever-whose mem­bers, according to the FBI, make late-night harassing telephone calls to opponents and thought they could get CIA help to "spike" a federal fraud Investigation of them. 
LaRouche is a frequent fringe candidate for president who espouses a complex conspiracy view of the world that defies ideological labels, lumping the Queen of England, Soviet leaders and prominent Americans as co-conspirators and drug dealers. 
Ten of his followers and five of his organizations were in­dicted in Boston on charges of fraud, in a scheme in which $1 million was allegedly bilked in unauthorized credit card 
wreckage of an annex of the presidential palace on the city's southern outskirts. 
Silva carranza said that three of the survivors, two children and a woman, were found buried un­der 90 feet of rubble on what had been the third floor of the Ruben Daria building. 
"We heard them," said John carroll, 33, a member of the Miami, Fla., Metro Fire-Rescue Department, who helped super­vise the slow, exacting rescue ef­fort at the Ruben Daria Building. 

"That's the way it always is," carroll said. "We listen for the voices and start digging toward them, and sooner or later we can get to them, we can touch them, we can reassure them, we can comfort them a little bit and keep them from losing it mentally until we can get them out." 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments NOWIIENDNGFOilFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th and get ONE MONTH RENTFREE 
Office •t120 ND AYe 
~6647 
c.BA.,u.e 
charges, and conspiracy to 
obstruct justice for alleged ef­forts to thwart the fraud probe. 
The Boston grand jury investi­gation began in the last weeks of LaRouche's 1984 presidential campaign. 
Government sources, speak­Ing only on condition of anonymity, said the investiga­tion is looking Into whether others up the hierarchical ladder of the LaRouche organization were involved in obstruction ef­forts. 
"It's like Watergate," said one source. 
( wiuR'GtR5.) 
Grand o·pening Means 

08 
FOR YOU! 
Wendy's, one of America's greatest fast food chains, has expanded again. 
That means job opportunities for you. Wendy's needs full and part time help. Crews are needed for cooking, operating cash registers. and servicing the Pick-Up 
•Above 
Average Compensation 

•Flexible 
Hours 


•Possible Advancement 
CONTACT: DAVE YOUNG 
6526 N. Grape Rd. 
Mishlwaka 
255-0142 
or 
Drop Applicot1ons 
ott at any 
Wendy's 1n 
South Bend or Mishawaka Wendy's IS Bu1ld1ng tor the Future Come Bu1ld A Future 
with Wendy's. 

Another 





Mother Teresa's plane runs into crowd, kills 5 
Associated Press 

DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania ­Mother Teresa said her visit to Tanzania was partly to blame for the deaths of five people, killed when her plane plowed into a crowd of well-wishers. But she decided Sunday to complete her trip. 
A plane carrying the Nobel Peace Prize winner, a second passenger and the pilot veered into the crowd in an aborted takeoff Saturday. A nun, two boys and two men were killed and two nuns were slightly in­jured. 
No one on the twin-engine Ces­sna 402 was hurt. The cause of the accident is still under inves­tigation. Church officials quoted the pilot, a Norwegian identified as Rolf Klemesten, as saying the plane moved to the right sud­denly as it gained speed. 
The accident occurred at the remote Hombolo missionary center in central Tanzania, about 200 miles west of Dares Salaam. 
After viewing the mutilated bodies of victims ata morgue in nearby Dodoma, a shaken Mot­her Teresa said, "My coming is behind this accident." 
She boarded a private plane for Tabora on Sunday after visit­ing the two injured nuns. 
Church officials said Mother Teresa would attend a ceremony Monday in Tabora where seven Missionary of Charity sisters are to take their first vows. 
She is scheduled to leave Tan­zania Wednesday. 
r.===========~'============~ 
ND Apparel Headquarters LIQUIDATION SALE 
30%0FF EVERYTING IN STORE 
(Except sweats) Complete outfitter for intramural sports 
FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES NIKE &ADIDAS NIKE Open Field (all white) $25.00 All CONVERSE basketball shoes $15.99 (Except The Weapon) 
SR 23 & Edison Rd. 
Mon.-Fri. 10-6 (across from King's Cellar) 
Sat. 10-5 277·7284 

WITH SPECIAL GUEST STARS 
1he Gary Puckett HERMAN'S G~~ 
&The Union Gap HERMITS 
NOVEMBER 11, 7:30 P. • NOTRE DAME ACC 
. k t f Reserved Tickets: $14.00
T1c e sae1 or 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's Students will take place this monday 9:00AM at the ticket windows located at gate 3 of the A.C.C. [Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of 
four[4) tickets per student VALID STUDENT I.D. 
REQUIRED. No line may form before 6:00AM. [Ticket sale for the public will take place at 10 of the A C. C. -Arena Dome1 






"ieVV~_O_i_n_f_____________Mo~nday~.oct~ober~13.1~98~~-pa~~s 
P.O.BoxQ 
----------------------------------------~ 
Hesburgh invites all to monument dedication 
Dear Editor: 
I write to invite the Notre Dame com­munity to the dedication of the Clarke Memorial Fountain October 17. We will celebrate a Mass for Notre Dame war dead at 4 p.m. at the Fountain site. 
What does the Clarke Memorial Foun­tain memorialize? War? No. In the spirit of upcoming All Souls' Day, it memorializes almost 500 Notre Dame men who made the supreme sacrifice for their country. 
All of these young men, like all of those here at Notre Dame, had their whole lives ahead of them. When their country called, they answered. In the agony of war, far from home and country, their lives ended. And so, at long last, we remember them here at Notre Dame where they all had great days and high hopes, as you do. 
The memorial was designed by two of the greatest living American architects, John Burgee, a Notre Dame architecture alumnus, and Philip Johnson. They donated their services as an act of homage to these young men. 
Atop three of the four twin columns are named the wars in which these men died: World War II, Korea and Vietnam. On the fourth-is a prayer and an invitation: Pro Patria et Pace. It is an invitation to each of us to serve our country, and a prayer that we may do it in the cause of peace. 
We probably will not be asked to give our lives for our country and peace as these young men did. Rather, we must live and work for peace in our times, no easy task in a nuclear age. But the memorial stands and beckons. And it constantly asks a question: What have you done for peace in our time? 
Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the Children of God. Let's call it the Peace Memorial. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC University of Notre Dame President 
Right to Life president corrects mistaken date 
Dear Editor: 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Group would like to apologize to any who may have expected to attend the Respect Life Mass and Dinner this past weekend. We had hoped to com­memorate Respect Life Sunday with this event, but we were advised to reschedule because of a time conflict with the Ala­bama game. We had also understood that 
Doonesbury 
the Mass would be cancelled the evening 
of the 4th because of the game, if we 
rescheduled. The Mass, though, was held 
and was well attended; we hope those 
who were expecting a Respect Life Mass 
and Dinner willjoin us at the rescheduled 
time. This will be Saturday, Dec. 6. We 
had put out publicity announcing the new 
date, but our efforts were bedeviled; last 
Friday's Observer still announced the 
original date. 
So we apologize to anyone who might have been inconvenienced. We will be holding the Mass with Bishop d'Arcy, and the dinner with Professor Douglas Kmiec, Assistant Deputy Attorney General as our speaker on Saturday Dec: 6. Tickets must be purchased in advance and will be avail­able in the dining hall from Nov. 24-28. We hope to see you there! 
Kris Murphy 
President, Notre Dame-Saint Mary·~ 
Right to Life Oroup 
Crude 'mess-ages' have no place at university 
Dear Editor: 
Concerning free speech and righteous restraint topics recently featured in Ob­server reports and correspondence, con­sider the following local vignette: today a balding young man preceded me down the sidewalk past Declo and O'Shaughnessy Halls and on into the En­gineering Building where his elevator key took him from sight. This person obvi­ously felt not only free, but proud and clever, to communicate a crudely offen­sive message displayed on the back of his jacket in letters large enough for a kindergarten child to read: Liquor In The Front --Poker In The Rear. 
Now this is not the first postadoleScent male here on "Our Lady's campus" to strut his homophonic stuff with this quaint tavern motto, attached or sten­cilled onto his clothing like some sartorial tattoo. But it is the last time I will accept the communique without comment. For the tainted and impovershed sexual im­agination expressing itself under the veil of such dim wit can only partially conceal the immodest anxieties and confused ag­gression burdening the male shoulders needing to thus proclaim in public the "silent scream" that is their true text. 
But the appropriate response to such verbal polluters -who are obviously free to wander this pastoral campus -is not that of censorship. Nor need any feminists, secular humanists. fundamen­talists, liberals or conservatives forgather to burn such textually offensive sub­stitutes for the cultural script of a dying giant. That script is, in fact being sub­jected daily to increasingly skilled critique from all quarters. 

What is needed here, as in every com­munity that holds freedom of expression to be a fundamental condition for the col­lective, perfective enterprise, is a loud and clear, full exercise of free speech by a maximum number of respondents. 
Trained for the exercise from pre­school days, it is .time for us to begin pointing out "What's Wrong With This Pic­ture" to the confused disseminators of such mess-ages. Gag orders -even when on is gagging on a so-called gag -are always a noxious prescription in a univer­sity community. The healthy as well as the ill are always made worse by this pseudo-remedy that cures nothing, and no one. 
Dolores Warwick F'rese English Department 
New Yorker responds to Mets accusations 
Dear Editor: 
I knew where the article was going when 
I read how he berated the Notre Dame 
football team. There are times when 
people just go too far. Such was the case 
with Marty Strasen's article on Oct. 7 en­
titled, "Baseball playoffs encourage 'hot­
dog' antics." Never before in my life have 
I felt so compelled to respond to a column 
than I did to his. 
After I blew up upon reading the article, 
I tried to figure out why The Observer 
would print such an article in the first 
place. I eventually attributed it to dead­
lines and a lack of a real column to run 
in its place. Then I returned to the article 
itself. I had to believe him when he wrote 
that he didn't know the playoffs started 
that day (Oct. 7), and I was surprised he 
even knew who was playing being as he 
didn't know anything else. 
As you may have surmised, I am a Mets 
fan. I've lived in New YorkaH my life and 
I go to Mets games whenever possible. 
In all my years of going to Shea Stadium, 
I have never once seen a wino anywhere 
on or near Stadium grounds (which, by 
the way, are cleaned before and after each 
game). And, contrary to Strasen's beliefs, 
scalpers are not specific to Shea Stadium. 
They are, in fact, present at every stadium 
in the country including our own stadium 
at any home football game. 
Now, I have nothing personal against 
the Cubs or Bears or any Chicago team, 
Garry Trudeau 
but. ..if any fan should know about losing, it's a Cub fan. And until recent years, Mets fans have had to suffer through each season as do Cub fans pres­ently. Now that the Mets have broken their losing doldrums-what's a "high-five" after a homerun? We, as Mets fans, have been waiting long enoughlitwas the Cubs' turn in '84. It's now finally our turn to bask in the spotlight. Spoiled? Hardly. Relief? Definitely. 
The Houston incident has been blown out ofproportion also. It certainly showed poor taste to refer to Mets player Tim Teufel as "Jailbird no. 1." He then called Mets fans "spoiled" for booing this same player who has not performed all year. It is a part of the game when the fans ex­press their opinions about players during the game though I'm not condoning it. Again, Shea isn't the only place where this occurs. When it comes to "hot­dogging," Walter Payton's struts Into the end zone come to mind. 
Players such as Gary Carter and Lenny Dykstra are not "hot-dogging" as he called it but rather showing their intensity -something he's obviously not familiar with. He is also basing his article on the actions of a few. At one Mets game I at­tended, an opposing fan destroyed a seat in frustration after his team lost yet no fan "ran him out of town" as Strasen would have you believe. I recently saw the Mets win their 1OOth victory In Chicago. The actions of the fans there didn't exactly approach sainthood either. Now don't get me wrong, some of my best friends are Cub fans. I, at least had the sensibility to realize that the fans I saw weren't representative of Cub fans everywhere. 
It's Incredible to believe that he thinks the only place in the world where the fans are friendly is in Chicago. It's also hard to believe that an assistant sports editor could use his column to express his per­sonal opinion about which he shows a lack of knowledge. 
William J. Cu"an Fisher Hall 

Write us 
Viewpoint Department 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 


Quote of the day 

"0 Lord, almighty and Everlasting God... blessed and glorified be Thy Name, and prais­ed be Thy Majesty, which hath designed to use us, Thy humble . servants, that Thy holy Name may be known and proclaimed in the second part of the earth." 
Christopher Columbus Prayer upon the discovery ofthe New World October 12, 1492 

General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
. The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Sit~ ~f Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culliganpohc1e~ of_ the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor............ Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and ob}eC~Ively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ....................• Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the_ Ed1tonal Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the1r authors. Col~mn s~a?e is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opm1ons on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1966 



Accent 
Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 6 

DREAMIN'
Someday I want to be rich and famous. I want to live in a huge house and wake up to the New York Times with my face on the front page and a headline saying "Noted Millionaire Becomes Noted Billionaire Overnight." I 
Kris Murphy 
Altered 
want to have a gorgeous wife and 10 kids. I want to leave a financial legacy worthy of kings when I die. I want to be part of history. 
I want to have a giant ego and enough money and power to back it all up. I want to wear the best clothes, and I want to be respected. I want to have thirty cars and a big dog. I want to retire at forty. I want to throw up a lot. I can't believe I really want to be like that. It's all so selfish and cold. It reeks of snobbery and irresponsibility. Oh, well. I always have my other dreams. 
I want to be dirt poor. I don:t want a family to tie me down, and I don'twant anybody to know where I am or even if I'm still alive. I want to drive around the world on a motorcycle with a never come back. Well, maybe that's not such a good dream. Hanging out with monkeys is not a good way to meet beautiful wo­men. I'll have to have another dream. 

I want to marry a Notre Dame 
sidecar. I'll drive the motorcycle, ~~~~~~!gi~~~(
and I'll keep all my earthly pos­
sessions In the sidecar. I'll have 
a notebook, a pen, a basketball =-_.-.::::::::;::~ 
and a live monkey named Koko. Koko and I will ride across America picking up beautiful wo­men and looking real lonely and tough. 
Koko will eventually eat too many bananas and croak. I'll get a social disease and wreck my motorcycle. I'll write the great 

• American novel, but no one will read It until I'm dead. Then one day I'll go on a beer run, and I'll 
girl. Maybe one of those wonder­ful ladies from Badin. We'll have 
5. 28765 kids and I'll work on Wall Street. I'll say things like, "Oh hell, honey. I forgot to pick up the asparagus. on the way home. Guess you won't be able to overcook dinner tonight." And, "Sure Billy, you can have the car tonight. Just wash every inch of it, get a decent job and get rid of your acne." Hold on a second. Badin girls are nice but you wouldn't want to see one in a station wagon. It's too much like responsibility. Scratch that dream. 
I want to be in a rock and roll band. I want to shave my head and dress in black. I want to call my band Father Ted and the Retreads. We'll write songs nobody writes songs about, and 
. we'll play them way too loud. 
We'll live fast and eat slow. We'll be banned everywhere, and everyone will be mad at us at once. We'll all die in a plane crash just like Ricky Nelson. But maybe that's too negative. 
Maybe I'll combine my dreams. I'll keep all the money, the power, the gorgeous wife, the motorcycle and the shaved head. I'll get rid of the monkey, the Badin girl and the other guys in the band. That's my dream, my goal, my life's philosophy. You probably think it's stupid, but then again you probably watch "Family Ties." You probably think it's unrealistic, but then again you probably think the An­gels can win the World Series. 
I think it's important to have dreams. In fact, I think it's so 
, important that I want to hear about your dreams, too. That's right. I want you to write down your dream or dreams, and I want you to mail them to me, or shove them under my door or shove them in my face, but I want to hear them. I also want to print them. Know why? Because I'm nosy. So mail your dreams to 228 Howard Hall. If they're)nter­esting we'll print them right here. I'm not saying that being in The Observer is the biggest thrill in the world, but it's not chopped liver either. So have some guts, be creative and dream 
AIESEC gets down to business 
KIM YURATOVAC features writer 

Promoting "international un­derstanding, cooperation and in­terdependence" are the goals of the AIESEC organization. AIESEC is the French acronym for the In­ternational Association of Stu­dents in Economics and Com­merce. The international student-run organization spon­sors traineeship programs in which recent college graduates are able to work in another country for six weeks to eighteen months in fields such as account­ing, finance, computer science and other business-related areas. 
AIESEC was founded interna­tionally in 1948, nationally in 1958 and at Notre Dame in 1964. More than 440 universities in 62 countries are involved. Cur­rently, there are 25 members in the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's chapter. Notre Dame AIESEC Predldent Michelle Curtin said that members meet bi-weekly and attend a regional conference once a semester with students from the other 20 schools In the central conference. Curtin adds that the "reglonals are a lot of fun. They involve training ses­sions, informative speakers as well as an opportunity to meet both students from the U.S. and foreign countries who work towards AIESEC's goals." 
This weekend, members will travel to Indianapolis to attend a conference sponsored by Purdue University. Tricia O'Connell, a member of AIESEC's finance committee, says the regionais are a good way "to meet people from other organizations and im­prove our organization here." O'Connell, an accounting major, believes that her involvement with AIESEC will help in her career. 
Presently, there is one Saint Mary's graduate working in the Netherlands and a former Notre Dame student working in Finland through AIESEC's program. There are also two Europeans working in South Bend. Philippe Bodson, of Brussels, Belgium, majored in accounting at the Uni­versity of Brussels. He arrived last December and is doing an internship with the Crowe-Chisek accounting firm until the end of January. Bodson said that he en­joys working with the audits of commercial clients. After his in­ternship, he will return to Bel­gium and serve in the army. 
Andrew Dzuryk. of Poland, develops marketing information for the Mastic Corporation. Dzuryk graduated from the Uni­versity of Gdansk with a major in foreign trade. He is working on his masters studies in computer science. Dzuryk says that he likes South Bend because he "prefers 
· nature to skyscrapers." Steve Boulet, head of the Reception Committee of AIESEC, says that his committee is responsible for finding housing and transporta­tion for the trainees and making sure they integrate with the local AIESEC club. According to Boulet, "AIESEC tries to solicit companies in the area for two things. First, they encourage them to take a trainee. They pick the specifications, level of train­ing, education and country. At an international conference, the descriptions are matched with the trainee applications." 
Coming AIESEC activities In­clude the Purdue conference and a fundralser selling Notre Dame binoculars at home football games. 
Taste of the tropics: 
Reggae band Ipso Facto 
visits Mitchell's tonight 
Special to The Observer 
Next week Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors may be sunning themselves in Jamaica, but tonight Jamaica comes to South Bend when the reggae band Ipso Facto performs at Mitchell's Indiana Club. 
In August, the Minneapolis-based Ipso Facto was the onlyAmerican reggae band invited to play before an international audience at the annual Reggae Sunsplash music festival in Montego Bay, Jamaica. The eight-piece, multi-racial band plays solid reggae bass and drum rhythms, combined with pop, rock and rhythm and blues arrange­ments. 
Ipso Facto is one of the rare reggae bands to have a female drummer. The band was formed in 1983 by the talented McFarlane family featuring sister Julitta on drums, brother Wain singing lead vocals, JuJu on bass and brother Micah as manager. They play original reggae tunes (ipso facto is Latin for actual fact) and well chosen cover songs. Ipso Facto's unique sound is apparent by the diverse range of musical groups they've performed with. They've toured the southeast coast with UB40; opened several times for Steel Pulse; opened for the Kinks, the Clash, Burning Spear, Black Uhuru and Third World. 
The mayor of Minneapolis proclaimed September 1 "Ipso Facto Day" in that city in honor of the band's triumphant return from representing America at the 1986 Reggae Sunsplash in Jamaica. Ipso Facto has already won 10 Minnesota Music Awards, including the title for "Best Ethnic Group." In 1984 and 1985, the band won the Black Musicians Award for "Best Reggae Group." 
Beginning in October, Ipso Facto will be seen on national television singing the rocMeggae song "No Cocaine" in an MTV public service spot, part of a national campaign against cocaine abuse. 
This fall, Ipso Facto will be on a tri-state tour, playing in Chicago, South Bend, Kalamazoo and other cities. Tickets for the South Bend performance can be purchased for $7 at Mitchell's tonight. 
Ipso Facto's music can be heard on WVPE-FM 88 each Saturday night between 10 p.m. and midnight on the station's "88 Reggae Street" program. 

Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 7
The Observer 



"A man can be destroyed but not defeated" 
-Ernest Hemingway 
,. 

Photographs and design by Greg Kohs 



--~­

The Observer Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 8 
Sports Briefs 

Junior Jeff Peters quit the Notre Dame basketball team friday, following two years as an Irish reserve. Peters played In 11 games last season, averaging 1. 1 points In 31 minutes. He will continue his studies at the university. Peters' move happened five days before the Irish open practice for the 86-87 campaign. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame basketball team will conduct tryouts for the "walk-on" position on Wednesday, October 15, from 8-10 
p.m. All students Interested should report, dressed to play, to the auxiliary gym In the ACC by 7:45 on Wednesday. If you have any questions, contact Coach Kilcullen In the Bas­ketball Office. -The Observer 
The ND golf team placed second in Friday's Valparaiso University Invitational on the Valparaiso Country Club course. NO's total of 399 was only two strokes behind the 397 re­corded by champion Franklin College. Low score for the Irish was recorded by Pat Mohan, whose 75 was also the lowest among all the competitors. The second-place finish closed out Notre Dame's fall record fit 29-3. -The Observer 
Several hundred tickets to next weekend's Air Force game are now on sale at Gate 1 0 of the ACC for $18. The tickets were part of Air Force's allotment that were unsold and returned. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team encourages anyone interested In trying out for the team or signing up for the Christmas trip should call Joe (1190), Kathy (4029), Jeff (3660), or Lisa (284-4415) this week. -The Observer 
Trivia night Is back tomorrow night on WVFI-AM 64. Speak­ing of Sports features a special edition, airing live at 10 p.m. Rudy Brandl welcomes the entire sports staff to this show, Including Frank Mastro, Kevin Herbert, Sean Pieri. and Rick Rletbrock. plus special guest Greg Werge. Listeners may call In at 239-6400 to answer questions in various fields. Winners will be awarded prizes. -The Observer 
Officials for co-ree basketball are needed by NVA. Applica­tions are available at the NVA office, or call 239-6100 for more -information. -The Observer 
• 

our guys we were going to win. call caused Holtz to play for a I never really had it In my mind field goal instead of a touch­
Panthers 

that we were going to lose. I down, and the game ended up dldn~t even think of It until It was on Carney's foot with 23 seconds
continuedfrom page 12 

out of my hands." left. I just felt fortunate that we were With the score still 7-6 late in The 38-yard attempt was wide only down by six at the half with the game, It was the Irish special to the right. our field position." teams which found the game in "We played for the field goal 
The Panthers' best opportunity Its hands. after the penalty because we In the first half came when a After a drive featuring the pass­didn't want to turn the ball over," Terry Andryslak fumble was ing combination of Beuerleln said Holtz. "I look back on it now recovered by Steve Apke at the and flanker Tim Brown, Carney and that may be putting too' Notre Dame 26-yard line late In put the Irish on top by hitting a much pressure on one young the second quarter. The Irish 
man. defense came up big. however, "''ve never seen a football stopping the drive In three plays team compete and hang to­and then blocking Jeff Van gether like this one has. They Horne's 36-yard field-goal try. refuse to quit. they refuse to give 
Andryslak started the game at up and their hearts are broken. quarterback for Notre Dame, but Mine is too -for them." did not attempt a pass as Steve The test now awaiting the Irish Beuerleln stepped In and saw will be turning those broken most of the action, completing hearts into some victories. 15 passes In 23 attempts for 167 yards and one Interception. "We're going to keep fighting 
Beuerleln and the offensive and keep coming back." said troops were much more efficient Beuerlein. "We can either throw in the second half, but late In the in the towel or we can come back game, it was the special teams next week with the same attitude refusing to cooperate. -and that's what we're going to
John Congemi 
"You look back and there are do. This senior class doesn't so many things," Holtz said. "But 20-yard field goal with 4:49 want to go out losers." that turnover at the beginning of remaining. Captain Mike Kovaleski, who the third quarter was critical." The Notre Dame defense then led the impressive Irish defen­
stopped Cangemi and the Pan­sive effort with seven tackles, Is 
Beuerlein led the offense on thers once again, In a series another who cannot walt to get an Impressive drive downfield on marked by outside linebacker back on the winning track. the first possession of the Cedric Figaro's blind-side sack "This team is not going to give second half, but It ended at Pit­which sidelined Cangemi for a up," he said. "We're not a 1-4 tsburgh's 17-yard line, when he play. The Irish, however, failed team." threw a pass Into traffic. The ball to move the ball In their own ter­EXTRA POINTS -Senior safety was deflected by defensive end ritory and lined up to punt with Mike Haywood's collegiate foot­Burt Grossman and wound up in just over two minutes to play. ball .career appears to be over. the arms of Apke. On the snap, 1 0 Panthers came The fifth-year player's Injured 
Panther quarterback John at punter Dan Sorensen, with knee will now require surgery, Cangemi then aired up the ball reserve cornerback Matt Bradley and a lengthy rehabilitation will in the third quarter and finally getting a hand on the ball. Pit­be necessary ... Notre Dame tail­found his way past the Notre tsburgh took over on the Notre back Mark Green suffered a Dame defense, leading an 83-Dame 34-yard line, and grabbed bruised thigh in the first half of yard scoring drive which ended the lead for good on a 29-yard Saturday's game, and was on the on a one-yard quarterback field goal by Van Horne with 1 :29 sideline in street clothes In the sneak. · Cangemi finished the remaining In the game. third quarter ... Andryslak's start game 25-of-471n the passing de­The Irish, keyed by a 31-yard was only the second . of his partment, good for 31 0 yards. completion to Milt Jackson, career . . The last time a Notre 
"The only thing I was thinking moved the ball to the Panther 23-Dame football team opened the of was trying to get the team yard line before disaster struck. season 1-4 was In 1962, when it moving." Cangemi said. "I told A disputed Illegal-procedure went on to finish 5-5. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­

l_ 



Classifieds 
1-wey return, Boaton to S. Bend on Piedmont Sun. Oct. 28. Call Mark 234· 
NOTICES FOR RENT 

8588. 
................................................................ 
TYPING AVAILABLE 

AIWA BOX, TAPE DECK, GOOD 287-4082 BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR 
STEREO, LIKE NEW, $80 OR BEST OF· 
PARENTS FOR NOVEMBER GAMES 

FER. SONY SPORTS WALKMAN, FM 
AND SPECIAL WEEKENDS. (1-219­

RADIO, 1 TAPE DECK, WATER RESIS· SAME-DAY TYPING 291-7153). 
TANT, GREAT CONDITION, $70 OR 
NO Pick-up ................................................................ 

BEST OFFER. CALL DEBBIE 284· 
Quick· Type, Inc. 

4213. 
2n-&998 
WANTED 

76 CHRYSLER CORDOBA AIR POWER 48000 MILES EXCELLENT 
TYPINGoWORDPROCESSING CONDITION 255-3247 

CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. I need a ride to Dallaa lor October breek.Call Andrew II you can help. 1091. 
Proleaalonal word proceaalng and typing. Convenlen11ocatlon on N.lron­HELP WANTED. PART·TIME. COM­wood. Call NICS 2n-4220. PUTER STORE. CALL 2n-5028. 
TICKETS 

Rd Trip ride offered to Cleve over Publlaher aeeka part·tlme aaalatent. b1'Nlt.55-1508 232·3134 alter 3 p.m. $$ I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ 
DAN 3273 HELP! Ride Fell Through! Need ride to Connecticut October Breek -Leave NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-Iamlly'ollrat altar game anytime. Going to 195 or vlalt CALL 272-3483.
lOST/FOUND I 
Merrlt Pkwy. Will ahare ride or take 

rldera lor rental. Pleese call Dennla at PSU PEUKS coming out tor gamel Loat at Sunday dinner In South Dining 283-4075 or 239-5095 or I may never Need MEGA PENN STATE tlx. Name Hall a blue denfm fackat with a leather gel hornell! your price, GA or STUD. Warren LEVI teg. GI'Ntly valued. Please cell (£1208)11 Tare 272-5845. EXPERIENCED PIZZA MAKER 
WANTED. NIGHT SHIFTS. HOURLY Loat: gold, amathyat ring. Laat aeen PAY. APPLY IN PERSON. NICOLA'S In Moreau Hell (SMC). Senti mantel RESTAURANT, 1705 SOUTH BEND valua. REWARD, no quaatlona uked. AVE. 

Perenta want to party at NO, Need 4Lucy 284-5482. 
AF GA'a and 8 SMU GA'a. Call Dave
NEED RIDER TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR 

et 2271
LOST: NAVY BLUE BOOKBAG LOST OCTOBER BREAK. LEAVING SUh· IN SOUTH DINING HALL CONTENTS DAY. CALL FRAN AT 4404. 

MY BOSS FROM HOME WILL PAY3 SPIRAL NOTEBOOKS WITH YOU BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR PITT OR FOLDERS, 1 PAIR OF GLASSES, A RIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO NYC1..1 AREA AIR FORCE TICKETS (STUDENT OR
NEWSPAPER, AN , ECONOMICS AND BACK FOR OCT. BREAK. WLL GA'S) PLEASE CALL 283·2493, JOHN. 

BOOK, AND A CALCULATOR IF YOU SHARE USUAL. FLEXIBLE LEAVE FOUND THEM CALL ME AT 283-3036 TIMES. CALL MIKE X 1527. 

Need 2 GAa lor Air Force
NEED RIDE to O'HARE AREA. ThUra. 
Call Jim at 283-187 4 
LOST:LOST-HELPIIIII LOST MY B· night or Fri. morning. Call Rob Detzner LAW NOTEBOOK LAST WEEK AND at 232-8917. WOULD BE FOREVER GRATEFUL 

EXCHANGE 1 OR 2 S.M.U. GA'S FOR(MAYBE EVEN REWARD OF &·PACK) PENN STATE GA'S. CALL 277 0526
TO THE DOMER WHO FINDS AND RETURNS IT. IT'S A YELLOW SPIRAL 

FOR SAlE Make sure my parents pay second ..,.
AND MIGHT HAVE BEEN LEFT IN meater tuition ao I can get out of thlaNIEULAND ON TUESDAY &00, OR IT place. Sell me 2 GAa lor Penn StateCOULD REALLY HAVE BEEN LEFT TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER so they can dperlence NO footbell.

ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Cell Mark at 2339.

AMY AT £342711111111111111 FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272·5959. 

LOST: A SET OF KEYS IN A MAROON FOR SALE-COMPLETE CAMERA SYs­CASE, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 158A TEM. INCLUDES KONICA STEPHEN CHEMISTRY AND WASH­AUTOREFLEX TC, SOMM F1.8 LENS, INGTON HALL IF FOUND PLEASE 28-85MM F2.8 VIVIT AR ZOOM, 135MM CONTACT CARRIE, 345 BREEN­F2.8 VIVIT AR TELE. $250 NEGTIABLE· NEED AIRFORCE GA'S WILL PAY PHILUPS, 1337. CALL PAUL 2287. CASH CALL X2286 
1-. 

dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fnday. The Observer Samt Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center,_ accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Help I I need 4 tlx to Air Force game. ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX. 513-OCN REPS· pick up Keenan, Morrisey, Will pay $$$1 Mary 2n-8033 661·9341 AFTER 5. P.W. by thla evening. 
I NEED AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY I NEED 6 GA'S FOR THE PENN STATE TOP DOLLARI GAME. CALL USA 272·7648. call: SCOTT 2n·3788 
deaparately need 4 Air Force GAa, Hungry? Cell THE YELLOW SUB­Tony 2086 
PERSONAlS MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houre: Monday -Thurlday 5pm·12am; Friday PLEASE SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE 5pm·2am; Saturday 5pm·1em; Sunday 
GAo ONCE AND FOR ALL AND QUIT OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
4pm·10pm.WHINING ABOUT IT! CALL 234-4642 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE and ASK FOR TRIPPIIIIIIIIII BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
... D.C. PARTY BUS ... COME PARTY YOUR WAY TO D.C. FOR BREAK ON 
I need one Air Force G.A. cell Brian Going to, near, or thru Atlanfil? 
THE D.C. PARTY BUS, NOW ACCEPT· at 1n9 Deaparately need a ride lor Fall Breakl 
lNG ONE-WAY RESERVATIONSIII 
Call Rob at 1548. Will more than ahare 
CALL MIKE a3ao OR KEVIN 1570
HAVE 3 AIR FORCE GA'S will trade expenaea. lor Penn St. or beat offer by Wed. ................................................................ 
HELPII DESPERATELY NEED A RIDE 
£1857 SENIORS: DO YOU HAVE A SENSE TO MPLS. FOR OCT. BREAK. CALL LEEANN 284·5439.
................................................................ 
OF MINISTRY TO THE WORLD AND
SSS BEER NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S 
TO THE CHURCH AS A LAY PERSON. Hey Chrlatopher R. B. -Leta get wildCALL SCOTT 1352 CONSIDER HOLY CROSS As­and melt aome cubeall Love ya,
................................................................. 
SOCIATES IN CHILE. APPLICATION Sweat pea DEADLINE: NOV. 7. SEE MARY ANN ROEMER AT CSC OR JANE PITZ AT JOANNE: PAT'S WRONG. I USE THE 
MOREAU SEMINARY. FRONT. IKE NEED .11 AF GA. KELLEN 284-4455. $$$ 
IM DRIVING TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR JUNIORS Monday Night Football at BREAK-NEED RIDE TO OR VICINITY? Bamaby'a (on Jefleraon) 112 hourNEED 4 GAa lor Air Force lor family. 
CALL SUZETTE 233-5398. before game time lor pizza and drink239-5873 apeclalalll 
I DESPARATELY NEED RIDE TO PROVIDENCE OR EVEN BOSTON! HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRISTY! HAPPYNEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL RICH 
£1218 WILL SHARE NORMA L EXPENSES! BIRTHDAY CHRISTY! HAPPY PLEASE CALL 34781 BIRTHDAY CHRISTY I LOVE, John andNeed Two G.A. Tlx lor AIR FORCE. 

213 of the Wild Woman or WalahPay Big Bucka. Cell Joe Altar 8 p.m. 287-4561 ...Lat'a talk..... Grece Hall Debete .... Starta aoon ..... SELLING ONE ROUND-TRIP PLANE 
................................................................ 
TICKET TO L.A. FOR BREAKIIIWeellhy working alumni '85 need tlx WHAT DID YOU HONESTLY THINK OF Call Trlcla et 1847
lor AIR FORCE and NAVY call Peul 234-4010 
THE MUSIC AT YOUR LAST SYR? .. . NOW CALL THE ONLY DJa THAT
................................................................ 
MATTER FOR THE NEXT ONE. WE'RE JAMAICA! JAMAICA! JAMAICA!
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA TKTS CALL 
PROFESSIONALS. WE GUARANTEE Selling my bid lor$420, originally $500DEBBIE 283·3197$$ 
QUALITY. CALL PAT MURPHY2n· Pleese call Jim at 277-7547 3887 TITO HIZON2n·0973 DON
I NEEtl: 2 • 4 G.A.'S FOR: AIR FORCE II you got 'em call Chrla x1371 
SEYMOUR283-3875 To Kerry and Therese In London The 
................................................................ 
NEED RIDE TO CENTRAL NEW YORK Wlldllowere are alive and well andSelling SMU and Penn State Tlx. Need (Rocheater or Syracuse) or I spend living at NO WE MISS YOU AND LOVE Air Force Tlx. Call Nick or Bob at 3365. 
Breek In leaalhan lovely Indiana leeve YOUIIIII New Hampahlra on Jan. 1 ?Ill alter the Air Force game will pay lor K & MB
................................................................ 
coat and drive II neceasery Call Eric
HELPI DAD IS COMINGIII 
at 1355 or 239-5303. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MARY SAGRIPANTII HAPPY BIRTHDAY,Need Penn State Tlxl Call Jim at 2n­
7547 ulea: looking lor ambltloua, ealea orl· MARY SAGRIPANTII HAPPY anted persona to sell high quality gllta BIRTHDAY, MARY SAGRIPANTII (a
................................................................ 
(nutaot:andy) to bualne8Ha In the llttlelete, but we love you, Marvl) love, PAYING $10 FOR AIR FORCE STU­aouth bend area. aam extra holiday your favorite aectlon.
DENT TICKETS. BUYING IN BASE· 
dollare In your free time between now
MENT OF LAFORTUNE; TUES. 5-7. DO 
and xmas. tan percent commlaalon I NEED A RIDE TO FLORIDA FOR FALL NOT liEED 10. BOOKS RETURNED peld on all niH made. call weekday BREAK. GOING MY WAY? KATHYTHIS THURSDAY. 
evanlnga: 2n-8342. 284-4453. 
The Observer Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 9 
Record -setter 
Scott baffles Mets to even up series 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK· Mike Scott pitched a three-hitter in a record-setting performance, beating the New York Mets 3-I last night as the Houston Astros evened the Na­tional League playoffs at two vic­tories apiece. 
Alan Ashby, given a second chance when his foul popup wasn't caught hit a two-run homer and Dickie Than added a solo shot, accounting for all the runs off Mets left-hander Sid Fer­nandez. 
Scott, who beat the Mets I-0 in Game I, became the first pitcher in either league to pitch two complete games in a playoff series. 
Scott won Game I with a five­hitter, equalling a playoff record with I4 strikeouts. While he was less overpowering this time out, returning on three-days rest after throwing 125 pitches in Game I, he was no less effective. He did not give up a hit until Ray Knight's two-out single in the fifth inning, while walking none and striking out five. 
That gave Scott I9 strikeouts, most ever in a league playoff. Dave Stieb had I8 strikeouts for Toronto in last year's American League playoffs against Kansas City. 
The lone run off Scott came in the eighth when pinch-hitter Danny Heep drove in Mookie Wil­son with a sacrifice fly. 
Rookie left-hander Jim Des­haies, I 2-5 during the season, will face the Mets' Dwight Gooden, who lost Game I despite giving upjust one run in seven innings, as the two sides try to break the second tie of the playoffs in Game 5 tonight. There was a forecast for a chance of rain for the game. 
Astros Manager Hal Lanier wrestled with the decision whe­ther to bring Scott back on three­days rest, although he had a 5·3 record in games earlier this season that he had started with­out the normal four days off. But the gamble paid off as Scott had his split-fingered fastball working to perfection. 
The Astros scored two of their runs in the second inning, an in­ning prolonged when the Mets failed to catch a popup in foul territory by Ashby before he hit his home run. 
Glenn Davis started the inning­that-might-not-have-been for Houston when he lofted a soft single into center field to lead off the second. 
Fernandez, making his first postseason appearance on his 24th birthday, then struck out Kevin Bass and Jose Cruz. He had a 3·I count on Ashby when the catcher hit a high popup toward the seats in shallow left field. 
Ray Knight backpedalled from his third base position with a decent chance of catching the ball for the third out of the in­ning. Instead, shortstop Rafael Santana, out of position to make the play himself, called Knight off at the last second, and the ball fell untouched, one row into some VIP boxes constructed es­pecially for the playoffs. Ashby fouled off one pitch, then hit the next one into the visiting bullpen in left field for a 2·0 Houston lead. 
Ashby had just seven home 
runs during the season. 

The Astros got their third run 
in the fifth innin~ when Than 
homered to left with one out. 
Than, who hadjust three regular­
season homers, hit an 0-I pitch 
from Fernandez. 

Fernandez was lifted for a 
pinch hitter after six Innings, 
giving up three runs onjust three 
hits, but two of them were the 
homers. 

Wilson led off the Mets eighth 
with an Infield hit behind second 
base. Heep drove him home 
with a fly ball to medium-deep 
center field. 
ning Saturday night in a stunning


Playoffs 
game won by Grich's RBI single in the I I th, took a 2-I lead Into

continuedfrompage 12 
the sixth behind Bruce Hurst. to replace the injured Tony With two outs. DeCinces Armas In center field, was the doubled before Hurst worked a goat. I-2 count on Grlch, who had 
The Red Sox. who had blown struck out In his previous two at· a three-run lead In the ninth in-bats. This time, Grich hit a long 
Your Future. 




LLKJ.I or ~M.:W.lN I.OTE.RS


Your Choice. DEBATES'86 
THIRD CONGRESSIO 
DISTRICT CANDIDATES' DEBATE 

JOHN HILER THOMAS WARD 
9:00 P.M.-1 0:00 P.M. TUESDAY,OCTOBER14, 1986 

Recital Hall, Century Center, South Bend 
Broadcast Live by WNDU-TV Channel 16 
Public Invited To Attend 
90 STUDENT TICKETS NEEDED 

* 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of LaPorte County requests that students leaving campus before the Air Force game consider lending thier football tickets to the clients of the Michiana Sheltered Workshop (physically and/or mentally handicapped people) from Michigan City. 

* 
Loan your tickets for this worthwhile cause -drop them off at the Center for Social Concerns by Thursday, October 9th. 

* 
Tickets would be available for pick up on Monday after break. (The tickets will be handled by responsible people,) 

* 
Questions? Call: Tim McBride at 289-2468 (LaPorte Co. Alumni Club President), or Sue Cunningham: 239-7867 at the Center for Social Concerns·, 


Kni-ghts of CoLumbus INFORMATION NIGHT 
Monday, October 13th during Monday Night football game Come Watch the Game 
& 

See Halftime Video " These Men They Call Knights" at 

1G of C Hall 



·COMING! H 
OCTOBER~ 

.~BREAK ~ 





/~ DOITAL~~ 
i(Condltlon In Booth ~Tan In Beds iCRelax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609Grape Road
1M~~ 
Mlshawako 

line and his teammates streamed onto the field to greet him while the crowd sat in shocked silence. 
The Red Sox blew a chance to go ahead In the I Oth when Bar· rett, who had bunted Into a for­ceout, took third on Dave Stapleton's one-out single. But Rice, 4-for-22 in the series, grounded Into an Inning-ending double play. Ironically, Rice, who set a major-league record by grounding Into .36 double plays two years ago and 35 in I985, had spent this season trying to reduce that number and had cut it to I9 this season. 
In the bottom ofthe I Oth, Jerry Narron walked with two outs and Pettis sent Rice to the wall In left field for the final out. 
The Angels played for the second straight day without first baseman Wally Joyner. 

drive that Henderson seemed to have within range. 
Hendersonleapedjustshortof the fence and got his glove on the ball, but his momentum carried his glove above the wall and the impact knocked the ball loose and over the fence for a two-run homer. 
Henderson threw his arms up In despair and Hurst knelt with his head down near the mound as Grich circled the bases trium­phantly. 
Mike Witt. who won Game L had cruised into the ninth with a 5-2 lead. But with the crowd of 64, 223 screaming for the Angels to wrap up their first AL pennant, Bill Buckner opened the inning with a single. 
One out later, Baylor homered over the left-field fence and cut the deflcit to 5-4. Witt retired Evans on a popup, and then was relieved by Ieft-hander Gary Lucas. But Lucas hit lefty Rich Gedman with a pitch, and relief 
ace  Donnie  Moore  was  sum­ 
moned.  
Henderson  fouled  off a  2-2  

pitch before launching a drive over the left-field fence. Hender­son danced down the first-base 
The Observer Monday, October 13, 1986, -page 10 
Field hockey team beats Alma, 4-1 

By MARGOT MACHECA Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame field hockey team battled the elements as well as Alma College yesterday, but the torrential downpour could not keep the Irish from tallying their third win in a row. 
Despite the sloppy conditions, Notre Dame emerged with a 4-1 victory over its visiting oppo­nents to improve its season record to 4-5. 
The Irish scored first on a goal by senior co-captain Meg McGlinn at 12:05 into the opening period. Because the turf was slower than usual, however, there was no more scoring until the second half. 
Fourteen minutes into the second period, though, Notre Dame's all-time scoring leader Corrine DiGiacomo tallied the first of her two goals to increase 
her team's lead. DIGiacomo's 
shot came on an assist from junior back Janet Budnick. 
Alma knocked In a score with 
ten minutes to go in the match 
to cut the Irish margin, but Notre 
Dame goalie M.J. Beetel had six 
saves to hold the visitors to that 
lone goal. 

Sophomore Caroline Berezny and DiGiacomo finished the scoring with a goal apiece in the closing minutes of the game. 
Notre Dame head coach Jill Lindenfeld was pleased with the play of her young Irish team that has been improving steadily with every game. 
"We played a very controlled, not flashy, game with very good passing," she noted. "With back­ward passes and feeding to our forwards, we controlled the whole game." 
Since no one player stood out 
in the match for the Irish, Lin­
denfeld stressed the importance 
of playing together. 

"We played a team-game today with everybody contributing," she noted. 
On a more disappointing note, junior co-captain Mary Wagner suffered a broken nose during the match and could miss the rest of the season. Wagner's loss may effect the Irish in their up­coming date against Michigan State Wednesday, but Lindenfeld feels that her team is ready for the challenge of a Big Ten schol­arship team. 
"Although we are not the favorites, I think the girls are ready for the match in order to test themselves against some very good players," said Linden­feld. 

Mistakes 
continuedfrom page 12 
terception dashed Notre Dame's hopes of victory. 
It didn't appear that the Irish would even need a comeback In this one. 
With 2:5.3 left, the Irish had a 9-7 lead and the ball. Two short runs and one incomplete pass later, the Irish were faced with a fourth down and the punting unit came out. Pitt figured to get decent field position but it got a Jot more. 
Matt Bradley, one of a pack of Panthers that broke through the Irish line, tipped Dan Sorensen's punt, which turned out to be a one-yarder, giving Pittsburgh the ball at the Irish .34-yard line and giving Notre Dame fans that here-we-go-again feeling. 
The reason for the tipped punt was a total mystery to Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. 
"I was really disappointed with the blocked punt," he said. "I didn't think that would happen and I can't tell you why or how." 
Sorensen was not surprised by the pressure, but he was surprised at the result. 
"We knew they were going to bring ten men," he said. "I thought ! got the kick off quick enough, but I suppose I should've gotten it off quicker." 

Pitt head coach Mike Gottfried said he was confident that his team would get to the kick. 
"We don't worry about the dangers of blocking a punt, we just went out and said 'We're going after it,"' he said. "We said, 'We're going out to take it off his foot,' and that's what happened." 
That also happened to enable Pitt to kick a field goal and take a 10-9 lead. 
Notre Dame began its final march on its own 24 with 1: 1 7 left and it looked like this would be the drive that would break the drought. A .31-yard pass to Milt Jackson got things started, and when a swing pass to Anthony Johnson went for 22 yards, the Irish had a first down at Pitt's 2.3­yard line. 
Here's where the ghosts of the past mistakes and bad luck got the best of Notre Dame again. 
On the first-down play, the Irish were called for illegal pro­cedure. Both Steve Beuerlein and Holtz disagreed with the ref­eree's call. 
"It was on them. When I said, 'set' one of their guys made con­tact with our guard," Beuerlein said. "When Tom Rehder, our left 
rGET READY FOR JAMAICA!, 
I Tanning Center ouvo~ I I \ f ""'s c ,_ 1
1 ""-, ' 1 y,tt\N<i\N f()tt_ ~ouN" 1
I ~~ o\S'-' I 
~~ ~ u·t The Sun Shine In ~~ 
277­


l!ll!.~_'{!!l.!.f!!~--~4jiJ 
Where the need is . . . there we will be. 


As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 
HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

tackle, saw that, he just stood up. They made contact first so it should have been on them." 
"I don't know what happened on that penalty. It looked like their boy made contact and then (Rehder) moved," Holtz said. 
The penalty had more far­reaching consequences than simply the loss of five yards. It shaped the strategy of the Irish drive, as a pass to Johnson fell Incomplete and two runs by the freshman failed to get a first down. 
"We played for the field goal after the penalty because we didn't want to turn the ball over," Holtz said. 
The field goal that the Irish set up was a .38-yard attempt by John Carney that was wide right. Everything seemed right mo­ments before the attempt. 
"I walked over and said 'How do you feel and what do you think?'," Holtz explained. "He looked very confident and said, 'Hey, we got It coach."' 
And everything seemed right with the kick from the point of view of Sorenson, who was hold­ing for carney. 
"It looked really close to me," he said. "I thought it could have 
gone either way. From my angle 
it looked like it went right over 
the top of the goalpost." 
Everything that looked so right, like it would be so different than other times, ended up to be just another chapter in what Is a continuing series of "could haves" and "almosts" that are undoubtably trying Notre Dame's patience. 
. "I've been here for four years now," Beuerlein said. "I don't know what the percentages are but whenever we have a chance to win at the end, it seems to go against us quite a bit." 
Add one more to the list. 
Drive The 19'86 Dodge Daytona Turbo Z And Win 
sponsored by Dodge and SAB with additional sponsorship from 
WITH ADDITIONAL SPONSORSHIP FROM 600D;fi'EAR UNOCAL8 ocean pacific , ANCQ .._ ~., ®National SUPPORTED BY CHAMPION Safety National Highway f:.,.. us DeportmentTraffic Safety ~ o1 TronspotfohooVALVDLINE ® Council Administration ~  

Remember': 

Bring drivers license & schooii.D. 


']I['~4Cil~~----------------------------------------------------•M•o•n•da•y•,•O•c•to•b•e•r-13•'•1•9•8•6,_-_p•a•g•e·l-1
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


Beernuts 
"~ 

' GfT S[R/OU5!eE~~==-" YOU BETTER MJT 
TAKE THAT APPLE...THfY 
I
AA£ PREITY 
STRICT ABOiff TilAT 5TUFF.... 

Campus 
2:.30 p.m.: Radiation laboratory seminar, "Dif­fusion Coefflcents in Anisotropic Fluids by ESR Imaging of Concentration Profiles," by Prof. Joseph Hornak. Rochester Institute of Technology. Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory 3:30-5:00p.m.: Computer minicourse Nota Bene Wordprocessing. Part 1, limit 7, 108 Computing Center. Free and open to the public. To register, call Betty at 239-5604 4:00p.m.: President's address to the faculty, Washington Hall 
6:00 p.m.: SMC Communal celebration of reconciliation, Holy Cross Chapel 6:00p.m.: Meeting. Women·Unlted for Justice and Peace, CSC 
6:30 
p.m.: SMC Dept. of Business Adminis­tration & Economics Lecture, "The Women Business Owners -Making Things Happen," by Carol M. Crockett, Director, Office of Wo­men's Business OWnership, U.S. Government, Washington D.C., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall 

6:30 
p.m.: Meeting Amnesty International, 


esc 
7:00 p.m.: Exxon distinguished visiting scholar series, College ofArts and Letters and Dept. of Sociology Lecture, "New Class Theories and Beyond," by Ivan Szeleny, Prof. of Sociology, City University of New York. 124 
esc 
Paint a picture ... not a rock. 
Give ahoot. Don't pollute. 
Forest Service, U.S.D.A. riiiJ 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Fix the salad 5 Chili con­
10-Lisa 14 Western alliance 15 Hunter in the 
sky 16 lsr. airline 17 Rights 
proclaimed 
by FOR 20 Cornered 21 Olive-green 
bird 22 Follower: suff. 23 Fish sauce 25 Regal housing 
.29 Crosspiece 32-Bator 33 Enamel 34 Silent assent 36 Expansionist's 
belief 40 Rainbow 41 Take the stump 42 Jot 43 Way to roll 
along 45 Gave a poor 
review to 47 Moslem priest 48 1004 49 NCO 52 Handpicks 56 LBJ's dream 60 Unaspirate 61 Old Eng. coin 62 Factual 63 Heb. measure 64 Fescue or 
sedge 65 Terminates 
DOWN 1 Explosive 2 Hawaiian isle 3 One or two 
follower 4 Parlor piece 5 Movement 6 Court decree 7 Prevalent 8 Neither's 
partner 9 Ethyl ender 10 Internes 

11 Swan genus 12 Designation 13 Too 18 Of the ear 19 Current and 
blessed 23 Take for­
(fool) 24 Bowling unit 25 Wildcat 26 Scare 27 Old weapon 28 Cuckoo­29 Vulgar 30 Pungent bulb 31 Card game 33 Sacred song 35 Pair 37 Preceding 

in time 48 Flat-topped 53 Quote 38 Assam silk­mounds -54 Sea bird 
worm 49 WWII battle 55 Ornamental 39 Can site button 44 Certain 50 Attention 57 Future fowl 
mechanic getter 58 Timetable 45 Steers 51 Descartes abbr. 46 With: Fr. 52 Promenade 59 Affirmative 
7:00 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "Shadow of a Doubt," 1943, Black and white, 108 minutes, Alfred Hitchcock. USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 
8:00 ·9:30p.m.: Economics Department Fall Labor Series Lecture, "Polarization of Labor Income," by Bennett Harrison, Prof. of Politi­cal Economy, MIT. Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "The Birds," 1963, 119 minutes, Alfred Hitchcock. USA. Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Meatloaf with mushroom sauce Ham, Cheese & Macaroni Chinese Style Tofu & Vegetables Tuna Submarine 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Ham Italian Lasagna Cheese Crisp Deli Bar 



Dear David Letterman, Come home to Indiana and we'll name a parking lot after you. Affectionately yours, The Notre Dame Student Activities Board 

---~----------------------­
Monday, October 1.3, 1986, -page 12


S~orts 

ND falls to 1-4 as Pitt rallies to 10-9 upset win 
Defense can't bail out Irish 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 

No matter how hard the defense tried to patch things up Saturday, Notre Dame's offense and special teams just could not seem to get along. 
The Pittsburgh Panthers, meanwhile, simply enjoyed watching the Irish struggle, and then came roaring back with a second-half surge to pull out a 10-9 upset victory at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"It was an exceptionally depressing loss for our football players," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz, who could only look on as a last-minute field-goal at­tempt by John Carney sailed wide to lower the squad's 1986 record to 1-4. "I give Pitt a lot of credit. We knew they'd play tough defensively." 
In the first half, the Irish special teams and defense combined to put the offense In great field position, pinning Pittsburgh deep in Its own end on a number of oc­casions. Notre Dame was only able to manage two carney field goals, however, from .35 and 48 yards in the second quar­ter, to take a 6-0 halftime lead into the locker room. 
"I told our kids at halftime," said Pan­thers head coach Mike Gottfried, "that to be down only six points, we were still In the ballgame. We had a field goal blocked Pittsburgh quarterback John Congemi fires a pass over Notre ourselves (by Irish tackle Mike Griffin),Dame defenders Cedric figaro (48) an~ Jeff Aim (90) in Sat­and we had a lot of dropped passes. But
urday's 10-9 Panther upset over the Irish. Although Congemi's 25-of-47 passing for :no yards helped Pittsburgh to rally past see PANTHERS, page 8 
Once again, errors spoil comeback 
Two 9th-inning clouts 
By RICK RIETBROCK the third such situation this forced the Irish to try a 45-yard 
Sports Writer year, and It had all the same field goal that missed. characteristics as the first two Michigan State provided the Notre Dame found itself in heartbreakers: the long drive Irish with a chance to redeem Associated Press The victory went to Steve Craw­
key Sox to clutch win 
familiar territory agai11st Pit­with just precious few ticks left themselves the very next week. ford, who pitched out ofa bases­
tsburgh Saturday. It was losing on the clock aborted by mis­ANAHEIM, cal. -Dave Hender­loaded jam with one out in the 
by one. It had the ball and a takes that spelled defeat. After pulling to within five son, whose two-run homer ninth and also worked the 1oth. 
chance to pull out a victory. Against Michigan in the points with a touchdown on its capped a four-run rally In the 
Unfortunately, the ending season opener, the Irish previous drive, Notre Dame gotninth inning that kept Boston calvin Schiraldi. tagged with 
also was all too familiar. stopped the Wolverines to give the ball again with 2:.37 left on alive, hit a sacrifice fly in the IIth Boston's heart-breaking loss In 
The 1 0-9 loss to the Panthers the offense a chance to get the the clock. The Irish got a first Inning yesterday that gave the Game 4, worked a perfect 1 1 th 
marked another in a long series winning score with 1:.3.3 left in down on a third-and-sixteen Red Sox a 7-6 victory over the for the save. 
of bitter losses for the Irish In the game. A couple of big plays play and, with the aid of a california Angels In Game 5 of The Angels battled back 
which they have been in a po­moved the ball 45 yards to the roughing-the-passer penalty,the American League playoffs. against three Boston relievers to 
sition to win the game, but Wolverine 29-yard line. moved to the Spartan .31-yard The Red Sox,. who several tie It 6-6 In the bottom of the 
came up short. Or off to the But the Irish movement line before Todd Krumm's in-times were perilously close to ninth.~ 
right. stopped there. A penalty, two 
see MISTAKES, page 10
elimination. Instead narrowed Trailing 6-5, Bob Boone led off 
Saturday's game was already incompletions and a short gain with a single against Bob Stan­
Astros-Mets, page 9 

ley. Boone, .3-for-.3 Sunday and california's lead to .3-2 in the 9-for-1 7 in the series, was best-of-seven series. Game 6 is replaced by pinch-runner Rup­
scheduled for tomorrow night in pert Jones, who took second on Boston. a sacrifice by Gary Pettis. Henderson's heroics, which Joe Sambito relieved Stanley, came after his defensive miscue and Wilfong grounded his first 
' 

on Bobby Grich's freak home run pitch just beyond the reach of had put california ahead in the second baseman Marty Barrett. sixth, enabled Boston to avoid Jones was running all the way being swept in three games at and slid home safely, just ahead 
Anaheim Stadium after splitting of right fielder Evans' strong the first two games at Fenway throw to Gedman. · Park. Dick Schofield then greeted 
Don Baylor and Henderson hit Crawford with a single that sent two-run homers as the Red Sox Wilfong to third, and Brian overcame a 5-2 deficit in the Downing was intentionally ninth, and the same two players walked to load the bases. 
triggered the Red Sox victory in But with the winning run 90 the I Ith. feet from home plate and the Baylor, leading off the I 1 th, outfield drawn in, Crawford was hit by a pitch from Donnie managed to get out of it by retir­Moore. It was the .36th time ing Doug DeCinces on a shallow Baylor was hit this year and the fly to right and, after going 2-0 228th time for the AL leader in on Grlch, getting him on a soft 
that department. liner back to the mound. it appeared -({·~· '~·~'"! < ~·~ ' '
Dwight Evans singled Baylor to Earlier, Hender­' . ,-.,. . :i~' ' ' second and Rich Gedman's son, normally a late-inning de­fourth hit of the game, a bunt fensive replacement who had en­Notre Dame defenders Steve Lawrence (2.3) and single, loaded the bases. Hen­tered the game In the fifth inning Troy Wilson (left) separate Pittsburgh receiver 
derson followed with his sacrifice 

Michael Stewart from the ball as Wes Pritchett
see PLAYOFFS, page 9
fly to medium-deep center. 

(right) watches. Stewart, who was shaken up on 

The Observer I Greg Kohs 
the play, later returned to catch seven passes for 71 yards, helping the Panthers to pull off their 10-9 victory. 








