
Student body president -page 8 

William Hickey was named the new president of Saint Mary's Fri­day morning. Hickey has served as acting president since last February when John Duggan resigned. 

Six SBP, SBVP tickets debate issues as election nears 
By LYNNE R. STRAND 
StoffReporter 
Student life, efficient student 
government and financial accoun­
tability were debated last night by 
six candidates for Notre Dame 
student body president. 
"Our main goal is to make stu­dent government work more effi­ciently," said Bruce Lohman, whose running mate is Jim Cran­dall. "We want to involve as many students as possible." 
Jim Domagalski, who is runn­ing with Laurie Bink, said he con­sidered their ticket the most ex­perienced. "We think we are the best ticket. Our goal is to produce immediate results." 
Domagalski said, "We want to establish financial accountability (for student government opera­tions). We want to bring in an in­dependent accounting firm to look over the books." 
Mike Millen also discussed financial reform. "There's a lot of cash floating around student government making interest." Ac­cording to Millen, whose running mate is Sheila O'Connor, student government cannot not account for $13,000, and the student body treasurer and the Student Ac­tivities Board has given conflic­ting reports on another $20,000. 
"No matter how you slice it (student government issues), it all revolves around cash." He added, "Students should know where all the cash is going." 
Approximately 100 people at­tended the two-hour presidential debate in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Mike Torkelson said he wants safer sidewalks, more entrances for the handicapped, and increas­ed enrollment of minorities. "We'll strive for a commitment for a 40 percent enrollment of women and a 10 percent one for minorities by 1990." 
Torkelson said he and his runn· ing mate, John Kromer promise to stress student life instead of student government. 
Steve Guenther, Tom Grier's vice presidential candidate, agreed with Torkelson, "The stu­dent government is not for the in­dividual, but for the students." Grier was not present for the debate. 
Mike Switek said he wants to reduce the size of student govern­ment. "We think there's too many bodies trying to do the same thing," he said. Switek's running mate is Don Momanaro. 
Switek's opening statement in the debate was that his ticket would start a national campaign to change "macaroni and cheese to cheese and macaroni. We really think it's something student government can sink its teeth in­to." 
The presidential ticket of john Walsh and pat Walsh did not at­tend the debate because they "had an off-campus social event and just couldn't attend," Pat Walsh said later. 
Concerning student involve­ment in student government, Millen noted he started a Pro­gressive Student Alliance, a com­mittee to directly collect student opinion by visiting dorms. "We can use the Alliance to take pro­posals to the administration," he said. 
Said Lohman, "It's the job of the student body president to steer someone in the proper channels to get things done. We're here to let you know we know how to get things done." 
He added that his campaign stressed the importance of im­proving hall life. 
According to Domagalski, the most positive development in stu­dent government is the increased involvement of class government. "Class government has done a lot more than student government," he said. 

Switek said he wants extra stu­dent government money to go to the class governments. He added, "We think the Hall Presidents' Council should have more speeches like the king and queen of England." 
"I want things to happen now," said Guenther. "Student govern­ment never made one contribu­tion to me in my three years here." 
On the issue of relations between student government and the administration, Torkelson said his ticket "will not rubber stamp its (the administration's) policies." 
Guenther agreed, saying "We have to stand up to the Universi­ty. The alcohol policy could've come out a lot softer if the students were behind it." 
Millen said, "It's quite clear that the administration has made no commitment to WVFI," refer­ring to the student station's future status. If elected, he would "bor­row enough money so that the sta­tion would be heard" and "simply support the station out of student government funds. 
"As a last resort, I would take a referendum to the student body." He said that he would impose a $15 tax if 70 or 80 percent of the students were willing to pay for it. 
Domagalski said teh fact that Laurie Bink is a sophomore and a female "didn't come into play" when choosing a candidate. "We can reach more people with Laurie as a junior. It's dangerous to have two seniors in office. Seniors tend to be apathetic at the end of their senior year." 
Millen gave his voting criteria for choosing a presidential can­didate. "I won't vote for anybody that's an inspiring politician," he said. "The candidate I'm voting for is someone who does his homework," adding that he would put student government under the University's Budget Unit Control. 
Debate questions were asked by two Observer editors and the editor-in-chief of scholastic. An audience question and answer period followed the debate, which was monitored by Ombudsman. 

'Dedication' nets Hickey top post at College 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Stoff Reporter 
William Hickey is the new presi­dent of Saint Mary's because of his strong dedication to students, faculty and staff, said Sister Margaret Michael, a member of the College's Board of Regents and one of the seven Sisters of the Holy Cross in charge of selecting the new president. 
"He's very dedicated and he's very alive. He's dedicated to the students, faculty and staff of Saint Mary's. He's eager to work with the sisters of Holy Cross for the future of the college," said Michael. 
Michael said it was her respon­sibility as Regional Superior of the Midwest region to see that the mis­sion of the women's college was carried out. The selection commit­tee believed Hickey to be the best choice for the College and its future, she said. 
"It (the choice of a president) was a hard decision because we wanted to look down the road at where Saint Mary's was going and where Saint Mary's needed to go. We tried to project who could take us into the future," said Michael. 
University of Notre Dame Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh described Hickey as a "wonderful choice" for the College. 
see HICKEY, page 5 
' 
.~ .:~ 
Oh,,.rv,,./Fil• Photo 

New president praises SMC faculty, facilities 
By THERESA GUARINO lege in the United States. "It is 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor wonderful to be able to move into 
an institution" such as Saint 

Few others "would have the ex­Mary's, he said. 
perience and dedication to women's Hickey cited the College's 
education that I would have," said "strong facilities, first-rate faculty, 
William Hickey Friday morning as and excellent resources," as areas to 
Saint Mary's announced he is the build on. He also described a pro­
new president of the College. gram to pursue faculty develop­
Hickey, former vice president ment, with "long-range and im­and dean of faculty at the College, mediate impact." had been serving as acting president "We must provide (the faculty) since the resignation of John Dug­with greater opportunities to do gan last February. what it does best," Hickey said. 
His appointment is effective im­"This includes improving resources mediately. Hickey is the ninth available for faculty, reduction in president in the history of the Col­course loads, increased research lege. funding and improvement of tools 
Hickey's selection was announc­available." ed by Sister Francis Bernard, In regard to growth, Hickey said superior general of the Sisters of that enrollment currently is op­the Holy Cross, at a morning·press timal. "We don't plan to increrase conference. Bernard is also chair­size," he said. man of the Administrative Minority enrollment remains a Members of the Board of Regents, problem that College ad­the group who chose Hickey from ministrators are discussing, he said. among three finalists recommended "We can't give you a specific plan to them by a presidential search because none exists," he said. "We committe. have begun to recruit highly in 
Hickey said he gave much minority high schools." thought to the idea of pursuing the "An institutional commitment," presidency after Duggan's to minorities is needed for effective resignation and considered whether improvement, according to Hickey. it was time for a woman to assume "We have to feel that it's important the presidency at the College. He to have minority students and then said, however, that he believed he provide support services for them." had the experience necessary. he said. 
The two other finalists con­Divestment is another issue ad­sidered for the post were women ministrators are currently debating. administrators at other Catholic Hickey said. According to him, colleges. divestment for the College would 
He called Saint Mary's ''the see PRESIDENT, page 6 outstanding women's Catholic" col­
I
I The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986-page 2 
' 
In Brief 
The Student Activities Board steering commit­tee announces the selection of the 1986-87 Student Activities Board -board manager, Frank Videgar, general business manager, Paul Bierbusse, and controller, Ann Foley. -The Observer 
Rioting in Egypt, which began last Tuesday near the Great Pyramids, has caused the American University of Cairo to cancel classes. Three Notre Dame students are located at the school, which is several miles from the fighting. The students, Mart Cizek of Lawrenceburg, Ind., Paul Nobbe of Fortville, Ind., and Clarice Keizer of Coos Bay, Ore., are all safe and abiding by a city-imposed curfew, according to Dr. Isabel Charles, assistant provost of Notre Dame and director of the foreign study pro­grams. -The Observer 
Barbra Streisand has earned nearly $100 million dur­ing her life, but Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbache~ makes a more modest salary of $18,700 a year, People magazm~ reported: In their March 10 issue People compared the salanes of vanous celebrities. Miami Vice detectives Don Johnson and Philip Michael Thomas earned $29 000 and $22,000 a week respectively in their first year. But Co~munist leaders earn much less capitalistic salaries. Besides Gorbachev, Cuba's Fidel Castro brings home $9,600 a year and Deng Xiaoping of China earns $2,200 a year. ­
AP 
Of Interest 
The president of Frank C. Nahser, Inc. Advertising in Chicago, will be speaking tonight at 6:30 in Carroll Hall. Ron Nahser's speech is titled, "Business as a Spiritual Journey," and will introduce students to the Christian approach to business and ethics. Nahser is currently executive-in-residence at DePaul University's School of Business. His speech is co-sponsored by the Business Department and the Center for Spirituality. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's Student Government commis­

sioner applications are due tomorrow. Interview sign-ups are at the Haggar CollegeCenterdesk where applications can be turned in.­
The Observer 
The Kellogg Institute will hold a brown ba~ sem~nar tomorrow in Room 131 of Decio Hall at noon. Scott Mamwanng, assistant professor of government and a Kellogg Fellow, will speak on "Grass Roots Movements and Democracy in Brazil." -The Observer 
"Killing US Softly," a film that explores th~ use of sex­ually-oriented imagery in advertising~ will _be show~ m th_e dor?ls starting today. Following each showmg wlil be a discussion with members from the Notre Dame faculty and staff. -The Observer 
The Kellogg Institute and the College of Arts and Let­ters will be sponsoring two panel workshops today. The first, on the issue of "P.erspectives in Economic Development," will be in Room 131 of Decio Hall at noon. The second will focus on "The 
U.S. 
Economy and Public Policy -Problems and Prospects" and will be in Room 210 of O'Shaughnessy Hall at 4:15 p.m. The panels are composed of experts from India and Notre Dame. -The Observer 

N. 
Scott Momaday will be holding a workshop in the library lounge at 1:30 p.m. The workshop is part of the Sophomore Literary Festival and is sponsored by the Student Ac­tivities Board. -The Observer 


All students interested in running for student senator are en­couraged to attend a meeting tonight at 7 in Room 118 of Nieuwland Hall. A meeting for those interested in running for class office will follow at 8. -The Observer 
Weather 
Generic Weather. Cloudy and cold to­day with a chance of flurries, with a high around 
35. Mostly cloudy and cold tonight, with a low around 25. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a 20 per­cent chance of snow and a high of 35 to 40. -AP 



The Observer ( I'SPS ~99 l-~00()) i• published ~onda)· thmugh frida)· ex<·epl durml( exam and \'acation penoili. The Observer" published hy the students ofthe I nl\·ersit) of Nou~ Oam~ and Saint ~ary·s Cull~ge. Suhscriptio"" may ~ pur<·hased t<or I ~H per y~ar ( llll per ~m~st~r) h)' writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. :>intre l>ame. Indiana ~M'\6. 
The Obaener is a mem~r of The AMoclated Press. All repro<luction rights an: ,.,.,.....ed. 
Campus groups will survive 'changing of the guard' 
Last summer I had the opportunity to work for 
IBM in Endicott, N.Y. During my time there, I was 
treated as a full member of my department. I 
became involved with my work and developed 
friendships with my co-workers. 

Then, one day in August, it was time to leave. 
And I realized that after I left, the department 
would continue much as it had before I came. Peo­
ple would continue with their work, and after a day 
or two it would seem as though I had never been 
there. The few programs I had designed would 
soon be the only reminder of my summer's work. 
I had felt like a contributing and important 
member of the department, yet my absence was not 
damaging. The department continued to function. 
And it probably would have continued to function, 
albeit somewhat less smoothly, if one of the 
regular employees had left. 

Last night I saw Student Body President Bill 
Healy sit in the audience as six candidates tried to 
explain why they are qualified to take his place. He 
probably realized that tomorrow someone else will 
be in the limelight, beginning the year much as he 
did, full of promises and ideas. 

He will see the student government to which he's 
devoted a year of his life continue to function and 
change without him. Next year, only a few of his 
programs and accomplishments will remain intact. 
The new student government members will func­
tion as best they can in the roles they are given. 
Those who gave so much time this year will no 
longer be needed. 

Seniors in general are finding themselves slowly 
being replaced. As graduation nears, 
underclassmen begin to take over the roles the 
seniors worked so hard to earn. In May the proud 
graduates will march forth from Notre Dame. 
When they return as alumni the University will be 
running quite fine without them. 

We find that organizations last beyond the peo­ple who run them. No matter how important a given person is to a group, if the structure is sound the organization will somehow continue without that person. Individual contributions are not forgotten, but they are overshadowed by day-to­day concerns. 
Our moment in the sun at Notre Dame is very short. While here, we make a difference to our dorms, our clubs and our classes. But soon we move on and become unknown faces in a new job and different environment. When we return to Notre Dame in years to come, few of us will find much evidence remaining from our four-year stay. 
The temptation is not to care. What real dif­ference can we, as individuals, make to our en­vironment? Our contributions appear insignificant when we look at ''the big picture," and they are soon overshadowed by those who take our places. 
But of course, we have to care. Few of us make a big difference, but many of us make a little dif­ference. It is all the little differences, pooled 
.SAap~ ~ Tr-1E. 

(:oM~P'Y'i 
STEPAN CENTER MARCH8 
7p.m. 
CAROL LEIFER 

Saturday Night Live writer 9appearances on David Letterman one ofAmerica's hottest comics! 
•
•
• 

Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 



together, that create a government, a team or a University. 
This year's candidates for student body president aren't hoping for lasting fame. They are hoping ofr that while in office they will make life a little better for the students at this University. The new presi­dent will probably not effect many lasting or far­reaching changes. He will (we hope) care about and work for the students, and doing so will help them in someway. 
As I write my last inside column for this m:wspaper, I know that tomorrow or next week few people will remember the column they read to­day. The Observer will continue without me. So­meone else will fill this space. 
But I leave knowing that for four years I cared about this newspaper and helped it in small ways. I know that someone has sympathized with, laughed at, or learned something from one of my articles. 
The Class of '86, as they rapidly approach graduation, can take pride in the fact that for four years they have cared about and worked for this University in some way. In doing so, they have gained the maturity and knowledge to contribute in another arena. They may not have individually made a lasting impression on this University, but their small impressions have made this a different place from the Notre Dame they entered four years ago. 
Although the faces are changing, the place will continue. But it is all the faces that have cried and cared that become the face of the University. 
SEAN MOREY 
Tonight Show with Johnny 
The Merv Griffin Show An Evening at the Improv. 
: Tickets available at the TicketStub for $4 Student Activities Board 
The Observer 
Monday, March 3, 1986-page 3 
University divestment called for at anti-apartheid rally 
By ELLYN MAST AKO He told the crowd, "You at the for divestment in 1962, Walshe Senior StqffReporter rally are the salt and yeast of the said. Notre Dame community. Other­John Dettling, student member 
"We are no longer the Fighting wise Notre Dame would have no on the Board of Trustees' South Irish. We've become the pet poodle other purpose than to help young Africa Ad Hoc committee, said the of the corporate world," said Pro­professionals into the corporate small amount of participation was fessor Peter Walshe at an anti­world. You are keeping Notre understandible. He cited lack of apartheid rally Friday afternoon on Dame's soul." publicity, disinterest and cold the steps on the Administration weather as factors that kept Building. "Black Africans have suffered in students from attending the rally. 
The rally, which culminated South Africa while American in­He also said the rally will pro­Anti-Apartheid Awareness Week, dustry has thrived. The in­bably not affect the voting for was attended by approximately 100 dustrialists are the people Father Tuesday's student referendum. to 125 people. Ted refuses to stand up to." "People who came to the rally 
Walshe, a professor of govern­While Father Hesburgh is liken­already made up their minds. It ment and international relations, ing the situation in South Africa to doesn't matter how many people criticized Notre Dame for betraying that of the civil rights movement in were there. What was important its responsibility to the Catholics in the 1960s, civil rights leaders like was what was said," he said. South Africa. Martin Luther King were calling Dettling began his speech by say-
Profs debate University divestment 
By BETH CORNWELL In response to those arguments, posing positions on the issue. He StqffReporter Walshe said that "the effect on the called the University's ethic workplace has been inadequate," stewardship, a belief in "optimum 
With a student referendum on that ''the South African regime is use of power for human welfare." divestment tomorrow, two of the not abandoning the apartheid He said the University hopes to major proponents of each side of system, but only fine-tuning it," use its investments to promote the issue met Friday night to debate and that ''the hurt to blacks (caused change. "I know of no better way to Notre Dame's investment in com­by divestment) will only be short­get things moving down there. I panies which have holdings in term ... all of South Africa is call­have no faith in sanctions. I have South Africa. ing out for divestment." no faith because all my economist 
Professor Peter Walshe, director friends tell my they will never of African studies, debated Father Walshe refuted the idea that work. They never have worked," he Oliver Williams, professor of divestment will decrease Notre said. management, to clarify the issues Dame's influence in the nation. involved in the divestment referen­"Divestment is our lever to effect "If I had heard that the majority dum. change," he said. "When we have of blacks wanted divestment, that's 
Walshe spoke first, in favor of divested, we still have trade and what I'd support," Williams said. divestment. He said that the ad­economic sanctions available. "when I was there this summer I minstration had three reasons for There are two levers for change, was quite open to hear that. I talk­continued investment, that the cor­balck struggle and economic sanc­ed to everyone who would talk to porations were already tions, which must be used me, but I just didn't hear that." desegregating the workplace, that simultaneously to produce an effect To the argument that Notre the South African government was on the South African situation.' Dame has no leverage, he in the process of abandoning the Williams, arguing for the answered, "I don't agree. I think apartheid system, and that divest­University's policies, said there are we're doing far more good than ment will only hurt the blacks. different ethics underlying the op-not. I think we should continue." 
ing, that University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's analogy between the blacks' strug­gle for civil rights in the United States and the apartheid problem in South Africa is incorrect. 
He said simply saying Notre Dame is going to divest is "passive divestment." He called for a dif­ferent type of divestment. He wants Notre Dame to issue an ultimatum to the multinational companies to divest from South Africa in six months if the situation in South Africa doesn't change. If, after the six months, nothing has changed then Notre Dame will divest. 
"Much of the wealth in South Africa today is form the multina­tionals. Investments in South Africa by these companies has tripled since 1970 yet the apartheid system has gotten worse," said Det­tling. 
He called the University's stand on the issue of apartheid "Mickey Mouse rhetoric," adding, "We don't want a form of apartheid, we want it abolished." He described 
the situation  in  South Africa  as  
deteriorating  into  a  mass  bat­ 
tleground.  

Dettling then addressed the issue of student participation in the anti­apartheid cause. "Our peers are so immersed in their private lives and they're too afraid to be allied with a liberal cause. They don't think that they're important enough to make a change," he said. 
He refuted this idea by quoting Robert Kennedy, "Each time a man stands for an ideal . . . he sends forth a ripple of hope that forms a current ... that can rip down even the mightiest walls of oppression." 
Dettling finished by calling for all in the Notre Dame community to take a stand against the system of apartheid in South Africa. 
Pat Mullen, a member of the Anti-Apartheid Network, spoke of the legitimate black South African leaders who are calling for Americans to divest. 
"We are no longer politely ask­ing, we're demanding that they listen to the call of their fellow man," he said, at which point the crowd broke into chants of "Divest now." 
Mullen asked the crowd to vote for divestment in the elections tomorrow. He concluded by asking the crowd to take a mintue to pray for the blacks in South Africa. After the minute of silence he led the crowd in a chant of "Freedom yes, apartheid no." 
Father Basil van Rensburg, a South African priest in Cape Town, told of the U.S. and South African bishops who speak of divestment as an act of solidarity because "we are all part of the great big family of the church." 
"I plead for Notre Dame to divest and not to legitimize the government in South Africa by keeping your investments in South Africa," he said. 
"We look to this country and we're not getting the support that we should get," he added. 
The final speaker was a priest from the Soweto district in South Africa and a Kellogg fellow, Father Buti Tlhagale. Tlhagale said the political reform promised by South African President P. W. Both a is only to please the outside world. he told of the actual conditions which exist in the country, citing examples of 10-year-old children being jailed for throwing stones. 

~ ®Salutes Another Fineltadition: 
NotreDame 


I=AANCO· AMEAICAJI 
® 


~ 
-
'a. 


~mnpld/4
CIIIIY
Prego® 

IDIP 






--~.._-------~-~-­
The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 4 
Student leaders argue about pros and cons of constitution 

By SCOTI' BEARBY 
Assistant News Editor 
The fate of the proposed new constitution for Notre Dame stu­dent government, which has weathered a storm of debate, will be decided by the student body tomorrow as both proponents and opponents work to make the issues of the plan known. 
All three of the major proposed changes from the current con­stitution are the focus of debate according to student government leaders both for and against the plan. 
Under the constitution pro­posal, the Hall Presidents' Coun­cil would no longer have the authority to pass an amendment to the constitution, the composi­tion of Student Senate would be changed, and there would be a change in committee structure. The proposal already received senate approval, but was voted down by the HPC and now needs a two-thirds approval from the voting members of the student body to take effect. 
Amendment Proposal 

Most criticism of the proposed constitution has been directed at the removal of HPC from the amendment procedure. 
Although saying the "basic plan of the constitution itself is pretty good," HPC Chairman Kevin Howard said he feels "a glaring 
error" was made in eliminating the HPC's authority to approve amendments to the constitution. Howard said taking this power away from the HPC results in eliminating one check on student government. He also said the plan's reduction of the HPC role would result in the body being more removed from student government. 
Senator Jim Hagan, a sup­porter of the proposal, said the plan is designed to centralize power so that student gover.nment speaks with one voice. He said eliminating HPC's ability to ap­prove amendments would get them out of the business of legislative matters and allow them to guide residential life. 
However, Carroll Hall Presi­dent Steve Kern calls the proposed constitution "detrimental to HPC and its role in student govern­ment." Kern objects to the senate having the ability to both propose ~nd adopt amendments. Joanie Cahill, Lyons Hall president, said that if the proposal is approved, "one body will have the ability to change the constitution. It would be good to have another body as a check." 
Senator K.C. Culum said that although HPC will not have the ability to approve an amendment, it still would be able to propose an amendment and bring an issue to the senate or student body. Com­mittee on Restructuring Chair­man Brian Holst added that any student, not just the senate, can propose an amendment. Under the proposed constitution, a two­thirds approval of the voting stu­dent body will still have the right to pass an amendment. 
"HPC is afraid that the senate will become a tyrannical group," said Culum. He said this would not be the case, however, because a three-fourths approval of the senate would be needed for an amendment to pass. Holst added that the plan calls for a student body president to have veto power 
over senate action with a provi-elected officials serve where 
~~~~-............ 
sion for senate override of the president. 
"People on the core (restructur­ing) committee say HPC doesn't need that role (of approving amendments). HPC feels it's right to have that role," said Howard. Kern said he feels the proposal would make the senate superior to HPC, which should not be the case. 
Culum said he likens the pro­posal's new structure to the federal/state system of the United States. He said the Student Senate will act on campus-wide issues, just as the United States Senate acts on national issues. Similarly, Culum said he views the role of the hall president as similar to a state governor. The revised struc­ture, according to Culum, will allow the hall president to deal with issues pertaining to their dorm. 
Hagan said the proposal "leaves HPC autonomous." However, Cahill said although supporters of the plan are calling HPC autonomous, the body will still have to abide by student government bylaws. 
Committee Restructuring 
A second major area of disagreement is the revised struc­ture of standing committees in the senate. 
According to the plan, elected senators will serve on four of the five standing committees. The Rules Committee, the only com­
mittee  not  to  have  senate  
members,  would  have  senate  
member input.  

Hagan said the committee structure allows for better ac­countability by having more 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
TESTN TAPE· LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT T~ST 


• HOMESTUDY PACKET 1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
The Student Activities Board Presesnts .. Sophmore Literary Festival 
1986 
Authors are holding workshops at the following times and dates: filScott Momaday, Monday March 3 9:00am Alan Dugan, Tuesday March 4 2:15pm Lore Segal, Wednesday March 512:15pm Ronald Sukenick, Thursday March 612:15pm Clayton Eshleman, Friday March 712:15pm Robert Cormies, Saturday March 8 11 :00 am 

apointed people previously sat. He said the committees will also promote more efficiency "giving senate the power to do what everyone is asking them to do." 
"The committees are unrealistic," said Howard. He said the proposal is "forcing com­mittees to exist when they don't need to." 
Kern and Cahill also said they had problems with the committee structure. Kern said he feels the committees will add bureaucracy, while Cahill said the elected senators would have final say in areas in which they do not have a great deal of experience. Cahill specifically mentioned their power to overrule the Student Ac­tivities Board manager in allocating money for SAB ac­tivities. 
Having senate members involv­ed in standing committees, however, will provide better ac­countability of financial matters, according to Holst. He said peo­ple elected by students will be making student government deci­sions previously made by ap­pointed officials. The senate will not control the presidential cabinet but will be a check on the appointees, Holst said. 
Senate Composition 
Under the constitutional pro­posal, the Student Senate would be composed of one represen­tative from each hall, two senators elected from off­campus, and each class president. The student body president will serve as chairperson of the senate and will vote only in the case of a tie. 
Kern questioned why class presidents were put as voting 
Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments NOWRENTING FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 810 NO Ave 
~7/256-5716 
Call Anytime 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Accent Editor Saint Mary's Executive Editor Sports Editor News Editor Viewpoint Editor Controller Advertising Manager Photo Manager Systems Manager Production Manager Graphic Arts Manager 
Submit personal statement and resume to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Monday, March 3 3rd Floor Lafortune 
members of the senate when he said, "it was totally contradictory to the philosophy of the writers (of the proposal)." In the original proposal class presidents were not included as senate members but were added at a later date. 
Holst said the reason there would be class representation on the senate is to have "'some assured representation of age," because hall senators may repre­sent one class more than others. 
Both Howard and Cahill said they see problems with the general structure of the senate, a structure which Cahill says does not know its purpose. She also said the pro­posal of having a 30-person senate will not be better, despite hall senator representation. 
Holst, however, said "it is time for a change," because the present senate and student government structure is not working effective­ly. 

Corrections 
Because of a reporting error, the reason for the elimination of the position of Saint Mary's editor at Scholastic magazine was unclear in Friday's Observer. The position of pro­duction manager was added to increase the efficiency of the production schedule, according to Editor-in-Chief Jim Basile, and had no bearing on the elimination of the other post. 
Also, in an article in Thursday's Observer detailing the proposal to restructure the Christian Life Commission, Sister Mary Turgiu was mis­quoted. Turgi said, "We are happy with the way theings have worked out and we know that ~tudent government is happy." 

l r 
I 
The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 5 
Ginsberg opens literary festival, sings about punk rock, plutonium 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Sltif/Reporter 
Poet Allen Ginsberg opened the 1986 Sophomore Literary Festival Saturday night with musical rendi­tions of poems dealing with punk rock, Nicaragua and plutonium. 
Playing to a packed library auditorium, Ginsberg entertained the crowd for two hours. Ginsberg played an accordion-like in­strument and was accompanied by senior Brad Ray on the guitar. 
For part of the evening Ginsberg and Ray played their instruments as they, and eventually the audience, sang the poetry "lyrics." 
"Punk Rock You're My Big Crybaby," was a favorite of the au­dience, for its familiar theme and its sexually explicit lyrics. 
As it began with "Punk rock I'll tell my deaf grandmother on you," and continued with such lines as "I wanna go with whips and chains and leather," the audience respond­ed with cheers and applause. 
Senior Rollin Hughes said this poem was a favorite among those he had heard. 
"I really like the thing on the punk rockers. It just summed up 
Hickey 
continuedfrom page 1 
"I've already written him a letter of congratulations and I think we'll continue to prosper together, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," said Hesburgh. 
Father Edmund Joyce, Universi­
ty executive vice president, said he 
was "utterly delighted with the 
news of Dr. Hickey as president of 
Saint Mary's." 
everything about punk rock. I think the title really says a lot for it," said Hughes. 
"Plutonium Ode" was another favorite of the audience. Ginsberg began by explaining the history_ of 

Allen Ginsberg 
plutonium and explaining details about the poem. 
"I dare your reality, I challenge your proper being," appealed to those listening to question the reason for plutonium. "Destroy this myth of plutonium with or­dinary mind and body speech," gave the answer to the question. 
Joyce added, "The key role he's played at Saint Mary's as faculty member and administrator makes him an excellent choice." 
Keith Egan, one of two selected 
faculty representatives on the 
presidential search committee, said 
he was glad a former faculty 
member was chosen. 
"We were glad to find out that 
one of the faculty could go on to 
become president of Saint Mary's 
College," said Egan. 
"Dr, Hickey lookes like a good 
"Father Death Blues" was written about the illness and subsequent death of his father, poet Louis Ginsberg. "Suffering is what was born, ignorance may be forlorn," was the message in the poem. The poem went on to give directions on where his father is buried in Pater­son, New Jersey. 
His poem "Homework" gave his ideas on cleaning up various parts of the world, such as "Rinse down the acid rain on the Parthenon and Sphinx." 
His style also extended to "rap" style poetry, such as the poem, "The Little Fish Devoured the Big Fish." The poem dealt with the pro­blems in Nicaragua, which he saw firsthand in his travels. 
Ginsberg's poem "Moral Majori­ty" told those listening that "nothing is wrong with Jerry Falwell, just a little mean streak." 
He ended the evening with another rap style poem, called "Do the Meditation Rock." In this poem, he instructed the audience to the proper way to meditate and relax. 
"It's never too late to do nothin' at all," was his message. 
man to lead us," he said 
As the student representative to the search committee, student body president Anne Marie Kollman said she organized a group of students who were given the job of inter­viewing three of the candidates. 
Kollman said the choice of Hickey was "excellent" and describ­ed the candidates as a qualified but very diverse group. 
"Dr. Hickey came out as the best candidate among those choices," Kollman said. 

Images of Old West Momaday's subject 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
Copy Editor 
Images of the Old West and American Indian tradition came forth from the dramatic readings of Pulitzer Prize­winning N. Scott Momaday dur­ing the second lecture of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Momaday read from some of his poetry and novels before a group of about 400 at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium last night. 
He began reading charms, which he described as poems in which the singer used the power of his voice "... to bring about a change in the world around him." 
Charms are tied closely to the tradition of the American In­dian, according to Momaday. Born in Lawton, Okla., of a Kiowa father and a French and Cherokee mother, Momaday said he is ''very much interested in the American Indian heritage." 
After reading the third charm, the last line of which went, "Death dances at the base of that hill," Momaday drew a laugh from the crowd when he said "These things are very powerful. You shouldn't repeat them loosely." 
Momaday read from his poems next, some of which he said were forthcoming in The Paris Review. 
When Momaday read the title of his next poem, "Sonnet for a Mottle-Breasted Girl," a mur­mur passed through the crowd. He paused and said, "I'm very good at titles." 
Momaday said he is a slow poet. He described how it once took him 18 years to write 18 poems. "That's not a very im­pressive rate, any way you look at it," he said. 
Momaday became more serious when he discussed his works about Billy the Kid. 
"I probably know more about Billy the Kid than most people do," said Momaday. He admit­ted,"... he has been one of my great fascinations." Momaday wrote a book titled ''The Strange and True Story of My Life with Billy the Kid," a collection of 21 poems, one for as many years of the notorious outlaw's life. 
A description of Billy the Kid read, "You could read this man in his hands. I believe that silence was his natural habitat." 
In another poem, Billy the Kid is crossed by a drunk man in a bar. Since the man obviously didn't know who he was dealing with, the Kid didn't pay him much attention. "But for a minute, his eyes lay upon him like a shroud," said Momaday. "The man withered away." 
After reading the poem that described the death of the gunslinger Momaday picked some samples from his novels. 
After the readings, Momaday was available for questions in the lobby, where some of his works were for sale. 

MANAGER APPLICATIONS 
are now available for the NEW Undergraduate Club in LaFortune for the 1986-87 academic year! 
Positions Available: 

General Manager 
Rentals Manager 

Food/Beverage Manager 
Promotions Manager 
Programming Manager 
Deadline for applications is Wednesday, March 12. Interviews will be March 17-19. Pick up applications in the Student Activities Office, 1st Floor of LaFortune. 

Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 6

The Observer 
Dead baby found in LeMans Hall 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor 
The death of a newborn baby, whose body was found in a LeMans Hall bathroom trash can Friday, remains under in­vestigation by St. Joseph Coun­ty Police, according to Dean of Students Mary Anne O'Donnell. 
A cleaning woman found the baby, a full-term white male, with the umbilical cord wrapped around its neck Friday morn ­ing. 
The baby was dead at birth and was no~ aborted, according to St. Joseph County Coroner Dr. Louis Grwinski. 
Police officials said they believe a LeMans resident gave birth to the baby. 
After the discovery of the baby at approximately 8:45 a.m., county police obtained "'arrants to search the woman's 

Organ contribution urged by campus group 
By MARGARET CLARKSON 
News Staff 
Most college students do not think about organ donation ­and that is unfortunate, accor­ding to sophomore Paul Vetter. 
"Although the death rate is low for the age bracket of 18 to 25 years, 56 percent of these fatalities are attributable to ac­cidents," Vetter said. ''These ac­cident victims are prime can­didates for organ transplants because their bodies have not been ravaged by age or disease." 
To promote awareness of the 


The Proof is in the Taste! 
Opea Moa-Sat 11 •• Saa4p• Pfua-Sandwlchea-Salada Beer& Wine 277-2020 l...oaded I• Boae,.ad (NautoBaa.,. 

CONTACT LENSES 
NAME BRAND 
Replacemenls & Spares 
SOFT LENSES 
From $19.95 ea FAST SERVICE NATIONWIDE 

1 800 255-2020 Toll Free 
EYE CONTACT 
P.O BOX 1266 MANHATTAN. KS 66502 
dorm room, in addition to an examining room at the South Bend Clinic. 
At no point did the student at­tempt to contact the campus Health Service, according to Anne Reed, vice president for College relations. 
Search warrants were to aid police in discovering evidence relating to the birth of the baby, including medical records, prescriptions, clothing and cor­respondence. 
The student was taken to Memorial Hospital after ex­amination at the clinic. 
Court records say that several other students saw the woman leaving the bathroom early Fri­day morning. She allegedly re­quested her roommate when asked if she needed help. 
Grwinski said he believes the 
student went into labor sometime early in the morning. "I think the girl panicked and 
need for organ donations, Vet­ter started the new campus organization Students for Organ Transplants. 
Vetter plans to conduct a drive for signatures on organ donation pledge cards later this month, he said. 
Students for Organ Transplants currently has 20 members. Within a month, Vet­ter expects to have booths set up in the dining halls where students can pledge to donate their organs. He also said he en-
Come see the Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra & Chorale in a performance of MAHLER & MOZART romantic and classical music  
TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 8 PM SACRED HEART CHURCH  
Free Admission  


COMING! SPRING 
BREAK 
.. 
/J.~ ~~­w DOITALU ~ 
I J-tcCondltlon In Booth / \ 
iCTan in Beds iCRelax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 4609 Grape Road
'MN-H~ 
Mishawaka 
didn't know what happened," he said. He estimated the time of birth at 3 a.m. 
Police said it seems that no College official was aware the student was pregnant. 
Residence life staff members have begun meeting with resi­dent assistants across campus, in order to inform students on an individual basis of the facts of the incident and to quell rumors, according to O'Donnell. 
Members of Campus Ministry, Counseling and Career Development, and residence life, soon hope to im­plement several programs to help students deal with the inci­dent. O'Donnell said that of­ficials will meet this morning to discuss further ways to inform students. 
A prayer service for the stu­dent was held in LeMans Hall last night at 9:30. 
courages Saint Mary's students to join the group. 
Professor Thomas Swartz, of the Notre Dame economics department, is the faculty ad­visor of Students for Organ Transplants. The group af­filiated with the Methodist Hospital of Indiana. 
"We've been accused of living off the spoils of the past genera­tion," Vetter said. "As a genera­tion, as the Notre Dame com­munity, we should try to show that we are not selfish and that we do care." 

President 
continuedfrom page 1 
not be financially significant, because a small amount of Saint Mary's investments are in South Africa. 
"The question is, what is the ap­
propriate  role  an  institution  of  
higher  learning  should  take  in  
divestment?" Hicky said.  

Saint Mary's Faculty Assembly passes a resolution favoring divest­ment last Tuesday. 
Currently, Hickey said, "we con­tinue our present strategies to in­vest in companies as long as they 

SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare f1 Midway Airport one Way szoooRound TripS30°0 
Available February 15th through March 31st. Tickets purchased usable throughout 1986 
INSIDE 
INDIANA (800) 332-7323 LOCAL (219) 674-6993 
Or call your travel agent 

Student Formalwear 
TUXEDO SPECIAL 
Classic Black Tuxedo 
Regularly 544°0 
38.00 
General Stock of Tuxedos and Tails 
Regularly 546°0-551°0 
42.50 
Evan Picone Designer Collection 
55750

Regularly 
48.50 
FIRST CHOICE, GUARANTEED 
With these prices, shop Gilberts fori Sophmore Cotillion, March 7 Junior Formal, March 8 Senior Formal, April11-12 
··ums
~~ W Wo'"""""'""" r,o 91•30•9.0 9l 
are Sullivan (principle) signatories." 
Hickey has been at Saint Mary's since 1960, when he joined the faculty as a biology lab instructor. He was promoted to professor in 1970, and served as chairman of the biology department until his ap­pointment as vice president of academic affairs in 1972. He was appointed vice president and dean of faculty in 1975. 
Hickey served as acting vice president once before, in 1974-75, after the resignation of former president Edward Henry. 
In 1969, Hickey was the recipient of the Spes Unica Award, given each year to the "most outstanding" faculty member at the College. 
Universily Park/Mon.-Sa1. 10-9/Sun. 12-5:30 




Accent 
Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 7 

Can you say 'clueless,' boys and girls? 
Yeah, I'm running for SBP. So what? 
ANDYSAAL 
features writer 

It was about 12:15 a.m. Tuesday night when I first noticed them. As I strolled down the dark hallway to the restroom, my eyes were sudden­ly assaulted by a thick mass of new flourescent posters which were plastered everywhere. 
They had apparently spread like a virus, because none of them had been there a few minutes earlier. Upon closer inspection, I noticed that some of these posters featured nice smiling people. Other posters were covered with acres and acres of ink, full of experience and pro­mises. I knew in an instant -it was election time. 
As I entered the restroom, I ad­mired the poster hangers' ingenuity in stategically positioning the posters at appropriate eye levels everywhere. So there I sat, face to face with some candidate's smiling face. Privacy is so hard to keep nowadays. As I passed the time, I perused this candidate's condensed life history: chairman of table favors for JPW, responsible for choosing the paint colors for the Nazz and other such important positions. 
Below this was their election platform. Their promises listed all kinds of vague general ideas and dozens of unexplained but nice­sounding events. All of these plat­forms were nice, but they all sounded the same: parietals, the ac­tivity fee and apartheid. Yawn.... Personally, I enjoy a nice friendly two-sided issue to vote upon. Now the Philippines, that's my kind of election. But Notre Dame? Granted, we do have an impressive number of tickets running, but it's like a horde of "Body Snatchers" came down and replaced all the creative people with resume­padding Barbie and Ken dolls. 
As I read more and more, my mind was reduced to slush with all of the big hollow phrases in their promises. One went something like this: "We want to found interactive and cooperative channels of com­munication between the legalistic thesaurus-using echelons of the ad­ministration and the subliminal consensus of the student body which . . . . " Somewhere in mid­sentence, my mind was lulled to sleep. 
As I fell forward from my seat, my head dented the stall door with a hollow thud. That's when the idea hit me (literally). If all of the can­didates refuse to stand out by even one iota, what would I stand to lose? I decided to offer the next stu­dent body my unique talents as a candidate for the next student body president. My platform, of course, would have to be innovative and more desirable to the everyday stu­dent. After careful consideration, I selected the issues which were really important to the student body. To the right are my credentials. Thank you. Have a nice day. 

Vote for me or die 
~~~··~··~~························~·················~· 
ELECTION PLATFORM 
• 
Separating the marshmallows 

• 
Moving the Stonehenge thing out to the parking lot near Senior Bar. 

•Outlawing 
tacky waterbed sales in Michiana . . . no more "Lost our Lease in Elkhart" sales. 

• 
Legalizing squirrel and duck hunting on campus. 

• 
Minimum height requirements for dining hall employees. 

• 
Converting Decio into a 20-lane bowling alley and arcade. 

• 
Organizing a boycott against the "New Zip 104" if it doesn't drop the "New" from its slogan. 

•Standardizing 
parietal viola­tions: First Offense -meeting with rector; Second Offense -forced to watch Donnie and Marie reruns; Third Offense -forced to eat Hungarian Noodle Bake. 

•Banning 
"We Built This City" from airplay. 

• 
Attempting to get either Pope John Paul II, God or David Letter­man to speak at graduation. 

•Initiating 
a student/ad­ministrator happy hour with John Goldrick. 

• 
Campus-wide An Tostal mud pits. 

•Giving 
WVFI 5,000,000 watts of FM power. 

• 
Annexing Kings Cellar onto the campus. 

• 
Bringing in Crimestoppers' Sargeant Sam Walsh to help com­mentate home basketball games: "Now at the line for Syracuse ... Dwayne 'The Pearl' Washington shooting one and . . . we'll pay you a thousand dollars, and we won't ask your name ...." Pearl bricks the free throw . . . Notre Dame wins. 


from  the  cereal  part  in  Lucky  
Charms  to  save  time  for  cereal  
eaters.  

, 
1 
~ 

Who's this? Dark horse kicks ND in the (sweat) pants 
cle? You don't? Well, let's ask this 
nice man in the big coat. Hi mister, 
what happens in a traffic circle? 
OK, bud, how long are you gon­
na be on campus? 
Not very long, sir. My name is Mr. Rogers and I'd like to know about your little circle. 
You got an ID, creep? I'm not a creep, sir. I'm from a special neighborhood. 
You're a creep! You think I don't know a creep? Move along 'cause you're blocking traffic. 
Well imagine that. He wasn't very nice at all. Maybe his shoes are too tight. You should always be careful not to tie your shoes very tight or they could hurt. Let's walk, shall we? Gee, this is a pretty place, with all the snow and ... the snow and this refreshing wind and ... 
(voice off camera) Hey moron! Get a coat! (laughter) Hey, those must be some students. Let's meet them. 
Hey guys, it's a beautiful day here on the Notre Dame campus. Are you going to classes? 
Domer 1: Nope. Beer run. 
Domer 2: Hey, that's a nice car­digan. Are you somebody's dad? 
I'm not a dad but I'm your neighbor. I do have some fish, though, and I like to feed them and watch them swim in circles. You know, pets are special and if you take care of them right they can -
Domer 2: Is this who I think it is? 
Domer 1: It can't be. 
Domer 2: It is. What do we do with him? 

Domer 1: Let's take him on the beer run. He looks 21. 
Domer 2: It's a weird idea but it'll probably work. Hey mister, you want to go for a little ride? 
You mean like a bike ride? I have a red bike at home and I like to ride to the park in it. Can you say -
Domer 2: Can you say "Shut up and walk to the parking lot?" 
Sure I can. 
They ride to King's Cellar in a 73 
Nova and get a bunch of Ronrico and a case of Old Milwaukee. They let Rogers off near the stadium with a beer to keep him warm. He begins to walk back to the Dome. 
Can you say "illegal"? Gosh that was bad of us to do but those boys were mean to me and I was scared. People told me this was a nice place too. It's cold, boys and girls, and my loafers are all wet. Let's see if we can find a neighborly person. 
He walks back to campus and wanders until he sees and inviting door. It happens to be Badin. 
This door is locked, boys and girls. (a girl passes by) Excuse me, miss, why is this door all locked up? Domette: 'Cause you need a Detex. A Detex. Can you say "Detex" boys and girls? Domette: Who are you talking to? 
I'm talking to all the special boys and girls. Hey, do you want to be my neighbor? 
Domette: Well, you are kind of cute and you're very different. Not 
like all those ND guys who think they're so great. Wanna go to my SYR? SYR? Can you say that, boys and girls? Domette: It means screw your  1 1 1 1 1  
roommate. Can you say that?  ~  
Sure I can. Screw your roo - 
Domette:  It  was  a  rhetorical  
question.  
I can say that too. Rhetor - 
Domette: Look, you wanna go or  
not? I know lots of guys who'd love  
togo.  
Actually, I'd just like to take off  
my loafers. They're all wet.  
Domette:  Right.  No  problem.  
That's  the weirdest  blow-off I've  
ever heard. I hate men.  
Have a nice day.  
Domette: Drop dead!  
Gee, boys and girls, I don't like  
this place at all. Maybe we should  
go back to the neighborhood. But  
here comes a priest. Maybe he can  
show us how to get a cab.  
Hi,  Father.  Can you  show  me  
how  to  get  back  to  the  
neighborhood?  
What neighborhood would that  
be, my son?  
It's  a  special  neighborhood.  I  
have  a  fish  tank  and  lots  of  
neighbors.  
Are  you  talking  about  the  
seminary, son? If you are it's over  
near the Grotto. Maybe you're talk­ 
ing  about  Saint  Mary's,  that's  a  
special place too.  But if you're in  
the  seminary  you  shouldn't  go  
there.  
I wanna go home, Father!  
So do I, son, so do I.  


•Abuse 
a Hoosier Week. 

•Starting 
an undergraduate nightclub on the 14th floor of the library. 

•Gumby 
Film Festival. 

• 
Starting an annual Observer swimsuit issue. 


EXPERIENCE IN ACTION: 
•President 
of Mishawaka Club. 

•Final 
four -musical chairs. 

•Junior 
class resident. 

• 
Did not attend one JPW event. 

•Enjoyed 
the Tommy Shaw con­cert. 

• 
Believes that "Herb" is the anti­Christ. 


•Understands 
"The Far Side." 

•Has 
actually met Joni Neal. 

• 
Does not like South Bend radio stations. 

• 
Has been on the 14th floor of the library. 

• 
Saw "Raiders of the Lost Ark" 31 times. 

• 
Knows where the Lost and Found is. 

• 
Can chew gum and drink simultaneously. 

• 
Never took Emil and is a science major. 

•Voted 
for Bill and Opus in '84 elections. 

• 
Stayed awake during three Hesburgh homilies. 



Kris Murphy 
Altered 
OPEN on Mr. Rogers standing in the middle of Notre Dame A venue. It is winter. He is waiting to go on camera for a special show. He looks cold and scared. He's never been out ofthe neighborhood but PBS forced him off his set for a little variety. 
Hi boys and girls. Do you know who I am? Sure you do. Well today we're going to do something just a little bit different. 

Mr. Rogers are going to visit another special neighborhood call­ed Notre Dame. Can you say Notre Dame? I thought you could. Notre Dame. Doesn't that have a nice sound to it? Yeah. You like my green cardigan? I put on my walk­ing shoes too 'cause we're going on a walking tour. Let's begin, shall we? 
This is the traffic circle. Do you know what happens in a traffic cir­

~i4e~~_<>__i_It__t_______________M_on-da-y,M-ar~ch~3,_198~6--pa-ge-8 
r r 
' 
,f 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
Vote for the ticket of Domagalski and Dink 

Notre Dame students are fortunate this year. There are seven tickets for stu­dent body president and vice president running in tomorrow's election. 
Not only are students fortunate in the quantity, but in the quality of the can­didates. At last night's debate, students in attendanc~ saw articulate, concern­ed and competent leaders. A decision in tomorrow's election is not easy to make. 
Of the field, The Observer believes the ticket of Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink best displays the qualities needed to lead Notre Dame student government. The ticket has both the experience and the leadership qualities necessary to provide effective representation and direction for the coming year. 
Domagalski's success in class government has provided students with the op­portunity to view his leadership in action. His organization and execution of various events throughout the past two years has been excellent. He has delivered on the big promises he has made. In addition, he has been active in the Student Senate. 
Domagalski has proven his ability to unite a significant number of students behind his programs. He has proven to be a creative and aggressive leader. 
With this background, his administration has the opportunity to develop respect for student government, which many candidates complain is now lack­ing. 
There are other qualified candidates. Especially noteworthy are Bruce Lohman's ticket and Mike Millen's ticket. Both have leadership qualities and experience. Their platforms present informed understanding of the workings of student government. Just because these candidates are not as visible as Domagalski does not mean they have not worked hard for students. They are a credit to student government. 
The remaining tickets should not be completely overlooked. They add diver­sity, enthusiasm and humor to ~he race. Several of them mentioned ideas and insights which would not be otherwise addressed. 
Whichever ticket is elected, it should not ignore the input of the other can­didates. His ticket should embrace the wealth of enthusiasm seen in the others. Together, these leaders can accomplish much for the students. The winner should channel the hard work and good ideas of all the tickets into a coalition which can improve life at Notre Dame. 
By a 5-4 vote, The Observer editorial board endorses Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink as student body president and student body vice president. 
-The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ 

Student senator backs new constitutional plan 
Dear Editor 
I am writing to express my support for the proposed constitution. I feel that if ratified the proposed constitution will provide the students with a viable avenue to direct at the administration their frustrations. 
In November, a proposed constitution that would abolish the Student Senate was soundly defeated. After the election, the Senate vowed that it would set up a commit­tee that would take the time to write a sound document that would be based on students first. The committee invited anyone to join the committee and welcomed any inpu~ peo­ple were willing to share. I was on the com­mittee and I can attest that the committee took every view into account. It placed no "favoritism" on any particular group nor did it try to "gang" up on any group. It was not a "power" committee, it was a committee seek­ing to create a sound document. The propos­ed constitution gives virtual autonomy to the organizations that wanted autonomy and it sets up a Senate that would have the power to check the president while at the same time allowing the president the leeway to imple­ment his or her program. It streamlines the government and gives the access to the students which the current constitution lacks. In general, the proposed constitution is well thought out, well written and the first step toward an effective student government. 
Fip.ally, on a personal scale, I am a senior. I will not benefit at all from the proposed constitution, yet I spent time that I didn't have to give working on this committee. I did it for one reason: it would give me solace knowing that although I may have failed in my attempts to change the injustices here, I helped form a student government that would have the structure to deal with student problems effectively. 
OH,O£/IR, 
OH, I PR!M/5t0 THe 
Tf{/(f5 GOING 
CARMCl? STArt OIAIR l'PCAM­
70BCT/6HT. 
IA/HJJ:T PAIGN FOR AM4YOR4L. 
IHAVC70!3C 
Fa<? CAN[}ft:¥ffc. A NW­
/NCARMU 
COMER NAM&IJ a!NT 
8Y4:3(). 
\ &A5JU/OO/}. 
K.C. Culum Student senator 
Q/NTf3A$7WOOI)r I THINk 
YOU'Re CAMPAIGN-7Hiff'5H15 
/N6 FOR aiNT NAMC./7He 
t=A$TfJVV11'1Z A FR.It3Nl? ~ \. Of' ~XRS~ 

Students should give proposal consideration 
A little over a week ago, the student government restructuring (CORE) proposal was voted down by the Hall President's Council, less than twenty-four hours after the Senate had approved the proposal. I was particularly disappointed in this decision be­ing a member of both the HPC and the 
MarkConces guest column 

restructuring committee. Last semester, I was one of the hall presedent's who argued against the disbanding of student senate. You, as students,proved that disbanding the senate was not the answer when you voted the proposal done. This semester, I asked to be on the restructuring committee because I felt I had an obligation. I decided that you do not start something unless you plan on following it through to the end. In this case, the 'something' was the restructuring of stu­dent government. That is why I spent over forty hours of my time working on the CORE proposal. 
Tomorrow, you, as students, will again have a chance to vote for what you want. But before you do, I want you to think about a few important points. First, last semester a group of HPC members voted on a proposal to disband the senate in the middle of the term, because they felt that anything was better than the present senate, which was so inefficient. When they first voted on the disbanding these hall presidents did not even have a written copy of the proposal in front of them! Is this the sign of responsible stu­dent leadership? This semester, a group of hall presidents voted down the CORE pro­posal because they were not sure that it would be an improvement. Ironically, I am talking about the same group of hall presidents who were willing to endanger a year of student government by getting rid of the senate during the middle of the school year. How can they honestly think that the CORE proposal would not by any improve­ment over this year's Senate, a body 'so inef­ficient' that they saw the need to disband it midterm? Second, at the end of last semester, members of the HPC interested in restructuring were asked to be on the committee. Not one of the hall presidents who voted against the CORE 
proposal showed any interest in helping with 
the reconstructuring. Personally, it angers 
me that these hall presidents could find it so 
easy to criticize the proposal. How can they 
be concerned about student government 
when their only 'ideas' came when the pro­
posal was finished? The restructuring 
meetings were open to anyone. If these hall 
presidents were so concerned about the effi­
ciency of student government why didn't 
they show up at any of these meetings? 
Third, the HPC had the option of revising the proposal to meet their requirements, and sending it back to the Senate for approval. Obviously, none of these hall presidents thought it was important enough, because they did not exercise this option. I cannot believe that some of my constituents could be so irresponsible and apathetic about such an important issue. I want to emphasize that I am not saying that the HPC is an ineffec­tive body. On the contrary, it is an excellent information resource body. However, I have become disullusioned with some of the members on the HPC. 
I am not saying that this proposal will solve all the problems of student govern­ment. Personally, I believe this proposal creates a streamlined and efficient framework for student government. The CORE proposal was not devised overnight by two students; it is a document that took two months and the dedication· of nine peo­ple. These nine committee members represented student senators, class presidents, hall presidents, and concerned students. The committee also solicited the ideas of various administrators and student leaders. This is not a proposal created by a group of power-hungry students; it is a pro­posal developed by a group of students who dedicated their time in the hope of a better student government. 
Even if this proposal does not solve all the problems of the present student governemnt, can it be any worse that what we have witnessed this year? The only way to find out if something works is to give it a chance. And, without this propoal we are stuck with another year under an inefficient system. I ask that you consider these three points when you vote tomorrow. Once again, you, the students, must let your voice be heard. 
Mark Conces is co-president of Flanner 
Hall. 
Quote of the day 
"March is supposed to come in like a lion and go out like a lamb -just like someone demand­ing a raise." 
Arnold H. Glasow 



.----------------------------------------------~------~-------------. 
"ielYP-_O_i_n_t______________________________________________ ____ __ 9
M_o_nd_a_y_,M_~ch 3,_I_9_B6 -p_a_g_e__ 
-

Referendum vote will be indicator of progress 
Voting in the referendum may increase our voice 
The referendum on South African divest­ment has been set for Tuesday, March 4. On that date students will be asked to vote on whether Notre Dame should sell its hol­dings in corporations that continue to func­tion within the apartheid system. The issue is whether they will listen to the cries of the oppressed, or retreat behind realizations designed to protect business as usual. 
Peter Walsh e 
guest column 

There are two levers for change in South Africa: black unrest and economic sanc­tions. Both need to be applied simultaneous­ly if the brutal white regime is to be brought to the negotiating table with legitimate black leaders. Black South Africans have been protesting segregation and apartheid for well over a century. In this struggle, the African National Congress has functioned as the ma­jor political organization. For almost half a century, from its foundation in 1912 to the passive resistence campaigns of the 1950's, the ANC sought to change the system peacefully. It was met with state violence and declared illegal in 1960; in 1961 Albert Lutuli, who as President General of the ANC had led the Defiance Campaigns, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. 
A decade later in the 1970's, the Black Consciousness Movement emerged to con­tinue the challenge to apartheid. Led by a young medical student, Steve Biko, the Movement was non-violent; once again the state reacted with force, shooting hundreds of school children who had gathered to pro­test their inferior education and the entire system of apartheid. By 1977 the organiza­tions of the Black Consciouness Movement had been banned and their leaders detained. 
On March 4 of this year our student body will be called upon to elect a new student body president and vice-president. This customary event is anything but. ordinary this year. There is far more at stake than simply voting for those individuals who one deems worthy of occupying the student body's presidential office. At jeopardy is an issue concerning the student body's inherent right as citizens of the Notre Dame Com­munity to acquire a legitimate voice in our schools decision making process. 
Tony Dawson 
guest column 

After voting for the candidates of your choice each student will be asked to voice their opinion on a special referendum. The referendum concerns the degrading situation in South Africa. An overwhelmingly positive outcome will signal to the administrative of­ficials that our student body must be granted a voice, and along with this voice must come a form of student participation. A form which has been absent from our campus since its inception. There has remained throughout Notre Dame's existence, an un­written precept which refuses to entertain the notion of full student participation. 
There are many justifications both past and present concerning our voiceless student body. Firstly, to name one all we need do is 

P 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
The Observer 1s the Independent newspap8f published by the students of the UniveJsity of Notre Dame duLac and Satnt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poliaes of the administration of etth8f mstltl.bon. The news IS reported as accurately and objecbvely as pos­Sible. Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the op1n1on of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. lett8fs and the lrlSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through lenens. IS encouraged. 
view Notre Dame's archaic system of educa­tional administration. This administration refuses to respond to pleas for reform. In education as elsewhere wisdom and maturity of judgement have been traditionally assum­ed to be correlative with age. As a result positons of educational leadership are everywhere filled by older people. The tempo of our present technological society demands a synthesis of student representation with 
that of administrative representation. Together, crises which are often met with generalities and hedging; can be directly dealt with given that all segments of interest are present in the decision making process. Second, there must be a search for equilibrium between students and ad­ministrative officials, bringing both together to work in concert so that our various tasks reinforce and support one another. This university has the job of educating people who will live in the world of tomorrow and who can understand something of what it means to be a citizen of the world. We students must be heard, our voices on March 4 must entail a change of attitude in which our university work is performed, a change of university tasks, a change of forms of organization for our university. 
This change which I allude to cannot simp­ly be dictated at the top and then come into automatic operation. There is a need for understanding and participation on the part of both students and administration of-
Biko became the 45th political prisoner to die in police custody, beaten to death. 
Now we are witnessing a third and much higher wave of protest, encouraged and led by the United Democratic Front. This time the focus on the new apartheid con­stitution of 1984. The constitution entren­ches racial discrimination and totally ex­cludes the tribal parliaments in the ten Ban­tustans -those rotting rural backwaters that make up 13 percent of South Africa. (5 million white South Africans have 87 percent of the land.) In the last 18 months, the South African police and army have oc­cupied the black townships in an effort to stamp out this dissent. Over 12,000 in­dividuals have been detained and more than 1,200 killed. 
During these last three decades, the ANC, which had been forced into exile, has gradually reestablished itself within the country. It has massive support for its goal of a non-racial society and the guerilla wing, Umkhonto we Sizwe (Spear of the Nation) has steadily increased its attacks as the coun­try slips into civil war. 
It is in this context that the black leaders of South Africa and the country's leading churchmen have called on the West to adopt tough economic pressures -to divest and apply trade sanctions as the last non-violent means to end apartheid. The alternative, they tell us over and over again, is more brutal repression and an escalating civil war. The ANC, the UDF and the Congress of South African Trade Unions have all asked us to divest. So too have Des­mond Tutu (Nobel Peace Prize, 1985, and Bishop of Johannesburg), Allan Boesak (President of the World Alliance of Reform­ed Churches and South Africa's most emi­nent theologian), and Beyers Naude (Afrikaner dissident, General Secretary of the South African Council of Churches and 

ficials. This cooperative planning effort which I am callilng for commits and involves the consumers of the educational system as well as the agents and the authorities. 
The vitality of the process of education springs from the capacity to be transformed by learning or teaching. It is true of the stu­dent as of the administrators that one must talk, not only about his necessary participa­tion within the school environment in the process of the acquisition of knowledge, but 
Notre Dame Hon. Doctorate, May 1985). 
These folk know from their experience of 
suffering and from careful analysis of the 
situation, that it no longer matters whether 
an American corporation, functioning 
within the Sullivan Principles, desegregates 
its restrooms or upgrades twenty black 
workers. These "micro" issues of plant and 
office have not affected the basic structures 
of apartheid and are irrelevant to the present 
desperate political struggle. Likewise, it is 
no longer a matter of whether the American 
Chamber of Commerce in South Africa 
takes out full page ads, asking the regime to 
change its ways. All that matters now is 
whether Americans will act decisively to in­
crease the cost to white South Africa of 
maintaining the system. In other words, we 
must address the "macro" issues of internal 
and external pressures to force white South 
Africa to the negotiating table. 

It is precisely these macro issues that 
Father Theodore Hesburgh and the other 
supporters of continued investment refuse to 
face. They are not listening to black South 
Africans, neither are they hearing the voices 
of black America: Jesse Jackson and the 
Rainbow Coalition, the NAACP and the 
Free South Africa Movement. As the fracas 
at Dartmouth College has shown, the divest­
ment issue is proving to be an embarrasing 
litmus test revealing the unconscious racism 
in white middle-class institutions. 
Last fall, while ignoring the evidence of in­creasing repression in South Africa, Hesburgh, the administration and a majority of our Trustees argued for continued invest­ment, on the grounds that plants and offices were being desegregated and that the presence of American Corporations would bring fundamental change. Now, six months later, the cries of black South Africans and black Americans are even louder and the regime more resolute in refus-
also about his participation in life outside that environment. It is axiomatic that if we the students of Notre Dame do not define ourselves for ourselves, we will be defined by others-for their use and to our detriment. To the very end we must seek to refashion the broken strands between the students and ad­ministrators. 
Tony Dawson is a senior government and philosophy major at Notre Dame. 
ing to abandon the structures of apartheid. It has unleashed its military, detained more black leaders and attacked its neighbors in a fierce effort to maintain white control and privilege: Nevertheless, Hesburgh and those close to him continue with their old refrains. 
Why is Hesburgh persisting with this stance? The problem may be intransigence ­an unwillingness to reasses an earlier posi­tion -although it sounds as if he really believes he knows more about the struggle than those who have given their lives to it. Alternatively, it may be that Hesburgh has been captured by the corporate culture which has endowed Notre Dame, making it im­possible for him to exercise a prophetic and critical voice. I hope that I am wrong that Hesburgh, in the closing years of his administration, will iden­tify with the poor and oppressed and listen once more to black voices. There is still time for him to rejoin the great figures of America's civil rights movement. As Martin Luther King Jr. put it in 1962: "We ask men of good will to take action against apartheid in the following manner: Don't buy South African products; don't trade with or invest in South Africa." Moreover, it may just be that on the issue of disinvestment, corporate America is almost ready to listen to a person of Hesburgh's stature. 
The upcoming referendum on March 4 will be a good indicator of how far we at Notre Dame have come in tackling our pro­blems of racism, paternalism and indif­ference. Ifthe results of the referendum sup­port continued investment in the corrupt apartheid system, the loser will be the Chris­tian identity of Notre Dame, not the Anti­Apartheid Network which has done so much to raise the South African issue on our cam­pus. 
Peter Walshe is professor of government and interna1ional studies and director of African studies. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ...... ......................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ........................... ...... Joe Murphy 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
"This theory clearly indicates who has the athletic supremacy." 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............... ............. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .. ...........................Jim Hagan Advertising Manager ................. .. Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............ ............ Mark B. Johnson Production Manager....................... John A. Mennell Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz 
Founded November 3, 1966 

-
t 
The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986-page 10 
Other bouts at 147 pounds saw fighter can be found at 138 pounds unanimous decisions earned by in the person of Steve Slaughter.
Bouts 

Matt Coash and Robert Harig, Slaughter looks like he could be a 
Robert Prebenda poster child for the Bengal Bouts,
· Sports Briefs while "Nikita"continuedfrom page 16 
took a split decision in his fight but he earned a TKO over Vadim knew the right was coming, but I with Mike Riley. "Drago" Zabludovski in the final don't know why I couldn't stop it." The 1985 titlist at 165 pounds, round. 
Masciopinto will try to tame Don "Transpo" Antrobus, seems In the other bout at 138 pounds,
The ND Windsurfing Club will hold a meeting to­

John "Zoo Animal" Drew in the on schedule for a second crown. Tim "The Soccer Psycho" Hartigan day at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All current members semifinals. Drew slowed down Antrobus defeated DAve "The Col­used a strong jab to go the distance and anyone interested in joining the club are asked to attend. For "Fast Ed" Dowd long enough to umbus Kid" Schneider when the against Christopher "Coast to more information call Kevin Laracey at 283-1148.-The Observer gain a unanimous decision. The referee stopped the contest at 1:26 Coast" Koster. other semifinal at 158 will pit Liam of round three. The judges had no problems at "The Wizard" Healy against Mike In other action in the 165-class, 140 pounds, as they handed "No Mas" Mazza. Healy dazzled Dennis "The Menace" Coleman unanimous decisions to JoeDr. Willard Y ergler will speak on lower back pain and Steven "Slim" Riedl with a picked up a unanimous decision Romero, Stephen Hillsman, andathletic participation today at 7 p.m. in the ACC Football unanimous decision, while Mazza . over Brian Cox, John "Burly" Joseph "Coup de" Cox. The excep­Auditorium. The presentation, sponsored by NVA, will cover had the referee declare no mas in Burelbach defeated "Johnny Boy" tion was Frank "T.N.T." Tantalo,prevention, symptoms, restrictions and therapy for back pain. 
his fight with Matt Hickie at 1:08 Dwyer in a unanimous decision, who looked like dynamite in stopp­Anyone interested is welcome, and there is no charge. For more in­of the third round. and William Joel proved he's only ing Mike "SLimey" Rigney at 0:32formation call NVA. -The Observer 
The comeback of the night was human, losing a split decision to of round two. staged at 150 pounds, as Thomas James "Lefty" Stevenson. The most excitement in the upper "California Kid" Ingalls won a split The bloodiest division may have weight classes came at 170 pounds, decision from Tim O'Brien. been the 160-pound class, as none where Mark "Roman" Palaski and
A wrestlin2 tournament has been organized by NVA. The tourney will take place Tuesday, March 4, and Wednesday, 

O'Brien decked Ingalls with the of the boxers escaped unscathed. Fred "Earth Dog" Ahlholm stood first punch of round two, but In­David Wood and Dan "The Anchor toe-to-toe for three rounds, beforemarch 5. Weigh-ins will be held tonight from 7 to 8. Proof of in­galls came back furiously after Man" Gamache won by split deci­Polaski picked up a split decision tosurance is required at that time. For more information call NVA. ­
that, using a hard right jab to score sion in the upper bracket, while advance to the semifinals. Alejan­points. John Mundo and Mark dro Cando also advanced in that "The knockdown got me going," Muldowney took their bouts on all class, using a powerful right hook admitted Ingalls. "The guy in my of the judges' cards. to pick up a unanimous decision 
The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a general meeting corner kept telling me to stay away Surprisingly, the hardest hitting over Hasan Dossal. 

tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 123 Nieuwland Science Building. All from him, so when I saw an open­was done in the lower classes, as the In the only quarterfinal match atmembers are reminded to bring their checkbooks in order to pay ing, I could get it and get out as night started off with some good 175 pounds, Thomas Shuff worefor dues and spring break. For more information call Patricia quickly as I could." punching. Senior Pat McCormick camoflage sneakers against DavidWorth at 283-2759.-The Observer 

Ingalls now meets Ted "The scored a split decision over Mike "Wrecker" Becker. Shuff could Truth" Gradel in one of the Polcari in the top bout at 125, while have used an entire outfit, semifinals. Gradel cooled off Tom Pat "Curious George" Baccanari however, as Becker towed away aNVA Hydrorobics will be held every Tuesday and "Heat Miser" Havel with a third and Mark "Muss" Lech,ner advanc­unanimous decision. 
Thursday from 12:15-12:45 p.m. beginning tomorrow. Entry cost round TKO. In other action at 150 ed on unanimous decisions. Finally, James "Knuckle Buster" is $3. For more information, call NVA.-The Observer 

pounds, Kevin Young earned a The slugging continued in the on­Ackerson busted his knuckles in a unanimous decision over Daniel ly match at 130, as John "The But­pair of knockdowns on his way to aA squash clinic will be held for beginning and novice 
Sexton and John "Psycho" Weber cher" Goodwine's aggressive style victory over Mike Murphy at 185 players on Wednesday at 7 p.m. Sign up in advance at NVA.-The 
scored a first-round TKO of gained him a split decision over pounds. Meanwhile, Michael Ross 
Observer 

Rodolfo Diaz at the 39-second Troy Duncan. mashed Mike "Spud" McNamee in mark. At 135 pounds, David "Diggy" a unaniiiJOUS decision, while James Two defending champions fared Simon survived an early barrage of Thordahl picked up a split decision 
A sneaker broom ball tournament will be held on Satur­well in their divisions, gaining ber­punches to gain a unanimous deci­over Patrick "The Playmate" Grif­day, March 8 from 3:45-6:45 p.m. at the ACC ice rink. Entry ths in the semifinals. "Smokin' Joe" sion over Joseph Suplick, while fin.

deadline for the tournament is Wednesday. Rosters with a Collins may be headed to another Nick "Sluggo" Steck used a flurry . Action resumes Wednesday night minimum of six team members Oate additions are acceptable) must title at 147 pounds, as he looked of body punches to get a with the semifinals beginning atbe submitted to NVA by the deadline. For more information call impressive in a unanimous decision unanimous decision over John 7:30. Tickets are still available for

NVA. -The Observer 

over Michael "Machine Gun" Cof­"Krazy Legs" Kirsch. three dollars and may be purchased fey. perhaps the most deceptive at the door. 
An open squash tournament will be held by the ND 
Squash Club on March 14-16 as part of the Insilco National Tour­

Bengal Bouts results 
nament. Anyone interested is eligible to participate by signing up 
and paying a $5 entry fee at the ACC courts by Friday, March 7. 

Quarterfinal Results 145 pounds 160pounds 
Thomas Newell def. David Fink, unan. dec. David Wood def. Steve Freschi, unan. dec. 125 pounds David Dvorak def. Michael Bacula, RSC at I: 12 of Dan Gamache de f. Tom Felton, split dec. 
Entry fee includes a t-shirt and a chance to win a position as a 
finalist in the next round of the tournament in Indianapolis, Ind. 

Pat BAccanari def. Michael Johnson, unan. dec. 3rd.? John Mundo de f. Raymond Powers, split dec. 
For more information, call William Mapother at 283-3451. -The 

Mark Lechner def. Walter Zwingli, unan. dec. Pat Loughran def. Dan Florin, unan. dec. Mark Muldowney def. Daniel Flanagan, unan. dec. 
pat McCormick def. Michael Polcarri, split dec. Mike Seals def. Steve Santry, KO at 0:14 of Ist. t65 pounds
Observer 

147 pounds Don Antrobus def. Dan Schneider, RSC at I :26 of Joe Collins def. Mike Coffey, unan. dec. 3rd.
130 pounds 
John Goodwine def. Troy Duncan, split dec.' 

Matt Coash def. Robert Costello, unan. dec. Dennis Coleman def. Brian Cox, unan. dec.
135 pounds 

Robert Harig def. William Donacuma, unan. dec. James Stevenson def. William Joel, split dec.
Nick Steck def. John Kirsch, unan. dec. 

Robert Prebenda dcf. Michael Riley, split dec. John Burelbach def. John Dwyer, unan. dec.
An interhall baseball tournament is being organized by 
David Simon def. Joseph Suplick, unan. dec. 

!50 pounds
NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the 

IJipoands Ted Gradel def. Tom Havel, RSC at I :07 of 3rd. 170 pounds 
Tim Hanigan def. John Koster, unan. dec. Tom Ingalls def. Tim O'Brien, split dec.
ACC by Wednesday, March 12. Rosters must include at least 14 

Mark Polaski def. Fred Ahlolm, split dec. Steve Slaughter def. Vadim Zabludovski, RSC at 1:11 
Kevin Young def. Dan Sexton. unan. dec. Alejandro Cando def. hasan Dossal, unan. dec.
players and should be turned in with a $15 team entry fee. For 

of3rd. John Weber def. Rodolfo Diaz, RSC at 0:39 of Ist. 175 pounds
more information call NVA. -The Observer 
140 pounds 

155 pounds David Becker def. Thomas Shuff, unan. dec. Joe Romero def. Robert Jagger, unan. dec. Jeff Masciopinto def. Ed Gavagan, split dec. IMpoundsStephen Hillsman def. STeve Simone, unan. dec. John Drew def. Ed Dowd, unan. dec. 
James Thordahl def. patrick Griffin, split dec. 

Frank Tantalo def. Mike Rigney, RSC 0:32 of 2nd. liam Healy def. Steve Riedl, unan. dec. Jim Ackerson def. Mike Murphy, unan. dec. Joe Cox def. Tom Falkenburg, unan. dec. Mike Mazza def. Matt Hickie, RSC at I :08 of 3rd. Michael Ross def. Michael McNamee, unan. dec.
Twelve-inch softball tourneys for men, women and graduate departments are being organized by NVA. Interested teams shouts sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday, March 12. Rosters must include between 12-16 players. In the men's and women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. 

Celtics end Pistons' string, 129-109 
In the women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. In the graduate division, teams must be composed by department. For 

Associated Press franchise-record 10-game NBA Larry Bird got 11 of his game-high more information, call NVA. -The Observer 
winning streak yesterday. 35 points. BOSTON -Danny Ainge scored The lead had changed 30 times a career-high 27 points and joined The Celtics broke open a close before Boston went ahead to stay
NV A cross-country ski rentals are available for a 

Kevin McHale to spark a surge late game by taking away a 98-89 lead by closing out the third quartersmall fee on a regular basis. For more information, call NVA. ­in the third quarter that boosted the· after the third quarter. A 16-0 spurt with an 11-2 run. It capped a 21-6
The Observer 

Boston Celtics to a 129-109 victory helped them run away from the burst that began with Bird's scoop 
that ended the Detroit Pistons' Pistons in the final period, when shoot with 6:01 left in the period 
TJ); Obsen•er Notre Dame olfke. located on the third floor of Lafortunt· Smdent Center. a<-cepts classified ad•·ertisinj! from 9 a.m. until -1 p.m.. ,\'Iunday throuj!h Friday. Tbe Obserr•er Saint Mary's offit'l'. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center. accepts dassifinls from I .L~O p.m until .:\ p.m.. Mon· dar though Friday lkadline for next-dn da,,ified' i' -~ p.m. All dassifieds 
must he prepaid. either in per,on or h~ mail. <:hargc i' I 0 n·nts per fi•·e t·harat·· ters r da ·. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
OAR HOUSE: cold beer I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCL SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
YOUNG TRAVELLERS NEWSLETTER! Includes 800 no.; travel partner service; features on exotic OVERSEAS budget travel, work, study! Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. BOX 3887, New Haven, CT.06525 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages of the Campus Telephone Directory. Use them today! 
Miranda, 
So that's where that's from. 
Ferdinand 
SOPHOMORE 
COTILLION 
COTILLION 
COTILLION 
NeeNeed rooms for graduation? Enjoy Bed 'N Breakfast In lovely homes. 219­
291-7153. 
FOR SALE 
Hoop Hysteria shirts still available!!! 
All sizes. Stop by Room 221 Stanford 
PERSONALS 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5 p.m.. 12 
a.m. Monday-Thursday; 5 p.m.. 2 a.m. Friday; 3 p.m.· 1 a.m. Saturday; 4 p.m.­10 p.m. Sunday. 
CHARMING, GOOD-LOOKING Alumni Hall freshmen seeking dates to Irish Wake!! II Applications can be obtained aii65Aiumnl Hall....... . 
DearKrlk, I would love more than anything lo go to your formaL Love, the Super Snorer 
ST. PArs PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the UNITED WAY! $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
SPRING BREAK BOSTON SPRING BREAK BOSTN SPRING BREAK BOSTON Does anyone need two interesting peo­ple as riders on the way to Boston Fri. March 21 or Sat. March 22? Will share gas, of course. Going to NEW YORK STATE via Albany, Syracuse, or Rochester? We'll ride along, too. Please call3861. 

STOP USING SEX AS A WEAPON 
CHARMING, GOOD-LOOKING Alumni Hall freshmen seeking dates to Irish Wake. Applications can be obtained at 165 Alumni Hall or call 2258 anytime . 24 hours a day!! 
Corby T-shirts and Corduroy Hals For Sale hats. $10 Shirts-$8 $16 for a pair Call3525 
Jangles, she is beautiful and she Is cool. 'the hell! 2 from GQ 
hey CORKY nice WIPE OUT SURFS UP but whal about I he sign!! 
TheCeller LaFortune Basemen! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE KML 
ACTUALLY TEMPEST IS REALLY ABOUT HOW THE DESIRE TO AC· QUIRE AND EXERCISE POWER OFTEN LEADS TO IMMORAL AND DESTRUC­TIVE ACTIONS. AIN'T THATTHETRUTH 
MARAUDER extends our appreciation to the ND linemen who saved our lives mon. nile our faithful fans from OLD COLLEGE, FARLEY, P.E. AUGUSTA ~;LALL, LEWIS HALL, SORING i(tf.NAN HALL "'!.! . l HALL MO . M. our sp.i'b\al 'nds.ltl~ttended all our shows at Sen ~.{lior allege and 
Stepan-NOISE M.li~ those beautiful art"! · majors (we love you) thank you and, 'to see you on our nexltour date MARAUDER To my favorite scope In Emil's claaa ­Kim Garrison! Looking good!! 
If elected, Jim D. deserves a 30-person Senate. 
PLAYING WITH FIRE GETS YOU BURN' ED ... AND I'm still burning 
ODE TO DENNIS DOLAN DENNIS LOST IT THIS WEEKEND, IT IS TRUE I TOOK IT WITHOUT ASKING, WHAT COULD HE DO& I TOLD YOU I WAS QUICK,5 SECONDS FLAT IT FELL, I GRABBED, IT HAPPENED LIKE THAT& YOU CALL ME, YOU BEG ME TO GIVE IT BACK, BUT THIS, MY DEAR, YOU WILL FOREVER LACK. REVENGE IN ME, DID YOU DOUBT, THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING OF A VERY LONG BOUT. 



The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 11 
The Obsuvu/Jim Carroll 

Irish forward Ken Barlow goes up for two as Marquette's Walter Downing (13) looks on. The Irish will need another strong game when they face New Orleans tonight. Dennis Corrigan previews the game in his story at right. 
to the Center for Continuing Education 
Loads of styles, sizes,colors•••
(Please note time and location change) on Monday, March 3 



1200 pairs of namebrand boots to choose from: 
•Acme •Dan Post
at 6:00P.M. 

•Tony 
Lama • Texas 

• 
Dingo • Capezio 

•Justin 
•Imperial 

• 
Abilene Infant size 4 through men's size 14. 


ME!'l<t our executives and enjoy refreshments. Tell us about your career goals and hear about the exciting Executive Development Program at Lord & Tuylor, 

•••and great prices 
America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as a career, you may want to know about 

TO BOOT! 
the many interesting opportunities ot Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and a record 

One mile north of US 20 on Fir Road of achievement, and look forward to the challenge 
Bring this ad In and receive a 10/ discount on any pair ofboots.
of managing a profitable business in just three years' time, ..__________ Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. 
Expires March 31 


. 
' , . \,.. 
~ ..,'J~~
., 
\lo I·
I
' 
Irish visit New Orleans tonight 
By DENNIS CORRIGA.f'j Tulane from Cal-Irvine, leads New Dame shouldn't be taking the Sports Writer Orleans in scoring (16.2 points per Privateers lightly, a sentiment that game), rebounding (9.8 a game) Head Coach Digger Phelps shares. NEW ORLEANS -One team's and minutes played (32.8). Joining "New Orleans is another team 
loss is another team's gain. That's Grandison on the front line is 6-7 that really has played well the last the story for the University of New Sam Jones, who is averaging 9.1 several weeks," says Phelps of Orleans basketball program when points and 5.6 rebounds a contest, tonight's game. "Memphis State it hosts Notre Dame tonight at and Smith, who averages nine and Southwestern Louisiana are Lake Front Coliseum. (The game points and 5.2 rebounds a night the only teams to beat them at will not be televised in the South and leads New Orleans with 19 home so we'll have our hands full." Bend area.) blocked shots. This game is a homecoming for 
When cross-town rival Tulane Notre Dame's Donald Royal, but dropped its program in the wake of The Privateer backcourt is com­players returning to their point-shaving and pay-off allega­prised of6-1 sophomore Gabe Cor­hometowns haven't always played 
tions, first-year Privateer head chiani (6.1 points, 3.5 assists) and up to their potential under Phelps. coach Benny Dees saw a chance to 6-6 Terence Bellock (5.5 points, 36 get his own program going at New steals on the season). Besides Cojoe "We haven't had the greatest luck Orleans. (4.7 points, 3.1 rebounds) and Irv­taking our players back to their 
Acting quickly, Dees signed ing (4.7 points, 1.6 rebounds), Dees hometowns to play the last few former Tulane players Elden Irv­relies on Randy Goodwin (averag­years," notes Phelps, "so I hope ing, Theron Cojoe, Michael Smith ing 5.5 points and 1.9 rebounds a Donald Royal can relax and just go and Ronald Grandison. When a game) for bench strength. out and play. It's a special game for team drops its program, its players The Privateers have a record of him, but it's also an important one do not have to sit out a year if they 16-9 following a loss last Thursday for our team with the NCAA tour­transfer to another institution, and to Memphis State. But more impor­nament just a week away." Dees has taken advantage of the tant for the Irish is New Orleans' The Irish, however, may be forc­NCAA rule. Both Grandison, a 6-8 11-2 home record. The Privateers ed to play tonight's game with forward, and Smith, a 6-7 center, have lost at home only to Memphis David Rivers. Rivers sprained an start for the Privateers, while Co­State by four and Southwestern ankle in Saturday's win over Mar­joe and Irving are key reserves. Louisiana by eight. Following its quette. His status is in doubt for 
Grandison, who transfered to tough win over Marquette, Notre tonight's game. 

Rivals 
continued/rom page 16 
SUMMER JOBS Marquette forwards David Boone and Kerry Trotter usually
EARN $3000 -$4500 THIS SUMMER 

• 
Exte11or House Poonrong • 14 Week Mon•mum Seoson lead the Warrior charge, but in 

• 
Monogemenl Opporlun•loes on , Sl Veor February's game at the ACC they 

• 
40 Hours Per Week each fouled out after scoring only 

• 
Greol Career hpe11ence .. ©lklk~®!E ~ eight and seven points respective­ly. In Saturday's game, however, the two had 31 points and 20


HURRY! Fl:,o~~•ckly ··TEAM 
points to keep the Warriors in the 
HOUS£ PAIHTE RS M•nneopohs Sl Paul 
game. (tU) fJS.IJ50 ' The Irish have defeated Mar­

Chocogo Well Suburbs Cleveland Subwbs 
quette in each of the last six con­

(JU) ..1·1209 (2.6) .,.·Ot$7 
Chocogo North Shore Columbus ·~ ,·} tests, and several Irish stars from
'-J 
(JU) •t·l21• <•••> lt1 · •too ..;_ • past games returned to lead Notre 
Exciting Permenent C•reera Alao Av•lleble. 
Dame to another victory. 
Senior forward Ken Barlow has averaged over 13 points in the last four Irish-Warrior contests. On Saturday, he poured in 18 points, including three alley-oop dunks and another slam after a powerful drive down the lane. 


Sophomore guard David Rivers has scored 70 points in his four games against Marquette, in­cluding an eight-foot shot at the buzzer to defeat the Warriors 63­62 last year in Milwaukee. On Saturday he poured in 17 points (including 9-of-10 from the line), grabbed a team-leading six re­bounds and dished out seven assists. 
The main featurt of the Notre Dame-Marquette series has been highly competitive games. The average victory margin for the last 16 games is under five points, 
cordially invites 
while the Irish only hold a 10-8 margin in victories for the last 18 games. These games include a singe one point margin, three two
Seniors 


point wins, and two games decid­
ed by three points. 
Irish forward Jim Dolan has 
been directly responsible for a 
pair of his team's two-point vic­
tories. In his freshman year, the 
Irish senior made a shot with time 
running out to defeat the War­
riors 59-57 at the MECCA. Then, 
on February 1 of this year he tip­
ped in a missed shot with no time 
left on the clock to send the game 
into overtime. His 22 points (on 
10-of-11 shooting) and nine re­
bounds keyed Notre Dame's 72-70 
win. 

Besides Rivers' final second heroics last year, several other contests have been decided in the closing moments. In 1973 at Milwaukee, Notre Dame's Dwight Clay hit a 15-foot jumper to give the Irish a 71-69 victory and end Marquette's 81-game home winn­ing streak. 
Marquette fans got a piece of revenge eight years later, as War­rior guard Glenn "Doc" Rivers made a ~ot from half court to give his team a 54-52 win at the MECCA. 
After the game, Irish coach Digger Phelps and several players tried to explain the reason for the intense and exciting games against Marquette. 
"We have a good rivalry and just go after each other," Phelps said. "We have a lot of respect for each other and what we do at each institution." 
"When you play Marquette or any of the other independents you have to play hard in order to beat them," Dolan stated. "We play each other twice, so we have to play as hard as we can to get into the NCAA Tournament." 
"They have big guys inside who can bang for the rebound and several good outside shooters, just like us," noted Barlow. "We're used to playing each other, and we have similar personnel so therefore the games are always close." 
An integral part of the Notre Dame-Marquette series has always been the fan support each team receives. 
Saturday's crowd was no dif­ferent, as the Warrior students and fans lifted their team throughout the game. All the Marquette fans were given signs saying "We are Marquette" and "Notre Doomed" to wave, in ad­dition to their own taunts and jeers during the game. Some of this must have affected the Irish, as the fourth-best free-throw shooting team in the country only shot 59 percent from the line in the second half. 
Not to be outdone, a large con­tingent of Notre Dame students travelled to Milwaukee to cheer on the Irish. With three minutes left in the game, several Notre Dame students walked around the court with a sign which read "Notre Dame -6 In a Row Over Marchoke." 
Notre Dame has played several more important games this year, such as the games against highly ranked North Carolina, Duke and Syracuse. The contests against Marquette, however, are always big games because of the fierce rivalry involved. Notre Dame's victory on Saturday was not decided on the last shot, but it will still add to the long and exciting tradition of Notre Dame­Marquette basketball. 


The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 12 
Grace downs Morrissey, to face Sorin for IH hoops crown 
DRESS 
FORSUCCESS. 

By FRANK HUMMER 
Sports Writer 
The men's A league interhall basketball championship game is set a scrappy Grace team will bat­tle a very physical Sorin team. Grace gained the opportunity to face Sorin by virtue of its thrilling 69-68 overtime victory over Mor­rissey. 
The game was billed as a rematch of last year's champion­ship in which Morrissey narrowly beat Grace for the interhall crown. This year Grace would not suffer the same fate. 
Steve Takach scored the first bucket of the game to give Grace a quick 2-0 lead. Morrissey, however, would come back behind the hot shooting of Chris Henry, whose 10 points helped build a 14-13 first-quarter Mor­rissey lead. 
Then Morrissey opened its big­gest lead of the game at 20-15 as John Gribbs scored consecutive field goals. Grace then took a 32­28 halftime led as Raoph Ferrara hit a basket with seven seconds left. 
Chris Henry's 12 first half points pac~d Morrissey in scoring while Tom Geyer's 8 points led Grace. 
The second half saw Grace jump out to an early 38-30 lead, but Morrissey was able. to close to within 40-39 at the end of the quarter. Grace began the final quarter by roaring to a 48-41 lead but behind John Buscher's 8 straight points, Morrissey was able to climb to within three at 50­47. 
Grace held a 57-53 lead with 27 seconds to go after Joe Hills sank two free throws. As it had manag­ed to do throughout the game, Morrissey came back. They tied the game up at 57 apiece as Pete Kolettis tipped in a basket with 8 seconds to force an overtime period. 

Grace started fast in the over­time period as they scored the first six points behind the strength of Tom Hickey's two buckets. After trading baskets, Morrissey's Steve Treacy and Todd Lozen hit consecutive hoops to cut the Grace lead to two at 65-63. 
Ferrara hit two free-throws to build a four point lead, but Henry's three point play cut the Grace lead back to one at 67-66. Two clutch free-throws by Joe Hills iced the game for Grace. 
Hickey led the winners with 21 points while Henry matched him for game-scoring honors in the losing cause. 
Grace coach Paul Derwent was happy that his squad's game plan was successful. 
"I thought we needed to shoot well from the outside and we did," Derwent remarked. We are not a really a big team so a lot depended on our outside shooting." 
Now Grace takes on Sorin for the interhall crown at 8 p.m. tomorrow in the ACC pit. 

Rally 
continuedfrompage 16 
foul shots late in the contest which iced the game for the Irish. 
One foul which particularly in­censed Rivers was a hard push by Marquette's Keyy Trotter on an at­tempted layup with 4:43 to play. Rivers hit the two foul shots, and the Irish got the ball out of bounds on the intentional foul call, but Rivers remained displeased with the Warrior forward. 
"I'd have been in the fifth row if I hadn't hit the table," said Rivers of the foul. "I just asked him what was so wrong with him that he wanted to play the game like that." 
Barlow finished with 18 points, with six of them coming off lob passes from Rivers for dunks in the second half. An aggressive drive down the lane for a one-handed slam late in the game gave him four dunks in the contest. 
"In the first half, we were having lapses and not playing our game," said Barlow. "I was having difficul­ty since a couple of my shots weren't falling. But in the second half, we concentrated on what we had to do and turned things around. I figured I'd take the higher-percentage shot and I was able to put the ball down a little better. 
But as well as the irish played in the second half, they played as poorly in the first period. They shot 40 percent from the field and com­mitted 10 turnovers. They had trouble getting back on defense to shut down the Marquette fast break, as the Warriors scored 10 points off their running game. 
"We knew that Marquette would come at us very, very aggressively," said Phelps. "They killed us the first half with their intc:msity, 
You're the man in charge. handle it. Because the Navy the management and technical get the job done. 
Thirty men report to you. 
do includes the care and responsibility A Navy representative ~·ill be at the for millions of dollars worth of 
Government Career Fair on March 6, 1986. 
sophisticated equipment. 
Plan to drop by to discuss options which At age 22 you can be a leader in the are available to you.Navy. With all the decision-making 
Or, you may call ahead for additional authority you need to help you match up information, toll-free, at: to your responsibility. 
1-80J-382-9LJ04 
NAVV DF.FICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER. 
And you can 
The rewards match up too. A solid 
has "'gH"en you 
starting salary of $19,200 with regulartraining to promotions and increases. Responsibility and rewards. It's the And what you 
way you measure success in the Navy. 
shooting and tough play on the boards. We just played horribly in the first half." 
But, although it was not much, change began to take place late in the first half. The Warriors held a 13-point lead -their largest of the game-at 30-17 with 4:02left in the half. but their shooting failed them, as the Irish slowly were able to climb back into the contest, finishing the half down by only the seven-point margin. 
"We could have been down 17 at the half, the way we played," said Phelps. "Our goal was to cut their lead to under 10 points by halftime. Once we did that, I thought the momentum swung toward us. And when we got the lead in the second half, we were able to hold onto it and ice the game with three to four minutes to go. 
"I'm just so pleased with the team for coming back like that. I think it's the sign of a great team to come from 13 points down playing in a place like this." 

Majerus, who has yet to win against Notre Dame, was obviously disappointed after the ·game in which his Warriors shot only 42 percent from the field. 
"I think Notre Dame played ex­cellent basketball in the second half," he said. "They just executed very well. They took away our in­side game with their 1-3-1 zone, and we just couldn't put the ball in the bakset. That was the story of the game. 
"But they're a top-ten team. 

they're bigger, stronger and better than we are. I can't fault the kids' effort." 
In the end, however, all the hats and posters the Warriors fans could come up with could not fend off the Irish, and the Marquette faithful were reduced at frustration. 
"We've been down before," said Stevenson, "so I knew we could come back. We can play with anybody if we play our game. There's no telling how far this team can go. When we concentrate and do things right, we have not limit." 

Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 13
The Observer 
College roundup 

Xavier wins MCC tourney 

INDIANAPOLIS Eddie Johnson scored 18 points, included four free throws in the final 26 seconds, as Xavier beat St. Louis 74-66 yesterday in the champion­ship game of the Midwestern Col­legiate Conference tournament and gained an automatic berth in the NCAA tournament. 
Johnson, who scored 12 of his 18 points in the tight second half, shot six-for-eight from the field and six­for-six at the foul line to help the Musketeers hold off an upset bid by St. Louis. 
Xavier, up by 11 points several times in the first half with a 37-28 lead at intermission, saw their margin dwindle to three points with 
1:55 remaining when the Billikens' Darryl Lenard hit a five-foot jumper to make the score 65-62. 
Xavier, coached by former Notre Dame assistant Pete Gillen, went up by six, 68-62, when Andy Don­nelly hit a free throw, but Lenard answered with an 18-foot jumper to make it 68-64. Johnson then hit two free throws to make the score 70-64 with 26 seconds remaining, but Lenard again hit a jumper from 10 feet to keep St. Louis within four points, 70-66. 
With 14 seconds remaining, Walt McBride made two free throws for Xavier, and then Johnson scored on two more free throws to reach the final score with six seconds left. 
Johnson also had 10 rebounds and three steals for Xavier, 25-4, the regular season champ in the MCC. Teammates Richie Harris and Byron Larkin each scored 19 points. 
Lenard finished with 14 for St. Louis, 18-12. Rabbit Hudson led the Billikens with 18. 

Duke 82, UNC 74 
DURHAM, N.C. -Senior David henderson scored 11 points during a late 14-4 run for top-ranked Duke as the Blue Devils beat No. 3 North Carolina 82-74 yesterday and won the Atlantic Coast Conference regular-season basketball title. 
It was the first time the Blue Devils, 29-2 for the season and 12-2 in the ACC, had won the con­ference title outright since 1966. They tied with North Carolina for the crown in 1979. The victory also gave Duke the No. I seed for the· ACC tournament which starts Fri­day. 
The Tar Heels, losing for the third time in the last four games, dropped to 10-4 in the conference and 26-4 overall. 
Henderson, a 6-5 guard, finished with 27 points, while senior guard Johnny Dawkins added 21, senior forward Mark Alarie had 16 and junior guard Tommy Amaker had 14. 
Dawkins raised his four-year point total to 2,343 and surpassed Mike Gminski to become Duke's all-time leading scorer. He is No. 2 in ACC history behind Dick Hemric, who had 2,587 for Wake Forest. 
Brad Daugherty led North Carolina with 24 points, followed by Jeff Lebo's 18, Joe Wolfs 14 and Curtis Hunter's 10. 
North Carolina, played its third game in a row without starting guard Steve Hale, out with a col­lapsed lung. 
Duke led 37-34 at halftime and, paced by Dawkins and Henderson, went ahead 60-52 with 9:37 remain­ing on Amaker's three-point play. Four field goals by Daugherty, the Tar Heel center, and a jumper by 
Lebo reduced the Blue Devils' 
margin to 64-62 with just under seven minutes to go. . Henderson then scored the next seven points for Duke, which capitalized on Tar Heel turnovers and Daugherty's inability to con­nect on a pair of one-and-one free­throw situations. 
Amaker's foul shot with 56 seconds left capped the 14-4 run which gave Duke a 78-66 advan­tage. North Carolina never got closer than six points thereafter, cutting the margin to 80-74 on Ken­ny Smith's jumper with 16 seconds 
~ 
to play. 
I 
I.U. 80, Iowa 73 
l 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind -Guard Steve Alford scored 25 points yesterday, as 16th-ranked Indiana 
survived a second-half rally to beat Iowa 80-73 and regain a first -place tie with Michigan going into the final week of the Big Ten Con­ference basketball race. 
The Hawkeyes came back from 19 points down and trailed by only one point with possession of the ball with three minutes remaining. But Iowa missed two shots, Alford made two baskets and Indiana's Winston Morgan put the game out of reach with a pair of free throws. 
Alford, a 6-2 junior, had 15 points in the first half, including six during a 15-4 spurt that gave the Hoosiers a 40-22 lead with three minutes left before intermission. 
Indiana took its biggest lead at 19 points, 64-45, seven minutes into the second half before a 24-6 burst brought Iowa back into the game. The game-saving baskets by Alford and free throws by Morgan pushed the Hoosiers' lead to 76-69. 

Take a break with Refreshing Coca-Cola clothes! 
After a swim, and for a casual night on the town, nothing's more refreshing than Coca­Cola clothes. That's because Coca-Cola clothes are made of cool 100% cotton and natural blends-nothing's artificial! Check this out: rugby shirts, jerseys, sweaters, sweatshirts, denims, caps and much more for the student body. Get yours down to Ayres now for the clothes a body thirsts for. We show: camp shirt in white with red logos; S,M,L; 36.00. 5-Pocket denim jean in 100% stone­washed cotton; sizes 8-16; 30.00. Logo T-shirt in white, red or royal; S,M,L,XL; 18.00. 5-Pocket denim jeans in sizes 30-38; 30.00. Men's and Women's Sportswear (0.527,359), Scottsdale Mall and 
University Park. I j 
I 
l 
I 

Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park daily 10 to 9; Sunday 12 to 5:30. 
The Observer Monday, March 3, 1986-page 14 
Irish hockey sweeps final home games from N.D. State 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
"They were not pretty, but we will take wins any way we can get the." 
That is how Notre Dame hickty coach Lefty Smith described the team's two victories over Notre Dakota State this past weekend. Notre Dame notched a come-from­behind 6-5 victory on Friday and a 4-3 win on Saturday to end their season home record at 8-3-l. 
The Irish also upped their season ledger to 12-19-l. "Defensively we made some bad 
~ 
mistakes in our own zone which
l 
I 
ocst us, and offensively we tended 
to overpass causing us to miss some 
I 
scoring opportunities" said Smith. J "If anything won these two games
~ 
for us, I would have to say it was
I 
I our persistency. Whether it was due to Parent's Weekend or whatever, we simply did not have enough con­
I t 
centration on the ice this weekend." 
North Dakota State goaltender Jeff Akins must feel like the Texans did at the Alamo as the Irish of­fense fired an incredible 96 shots at him this weekend. 
Each of the two games, Notre Dame seemed to wear Akins down. In a period by period breakdown this fact becomes manifest. In the first periods, the Irish did not manage a goal but in the second and third periods, Notre Dame not­ched four and six goals respective­ly. 
In Friday night's match, the Irish trailed 1-0 before freshman Bob Herber tied the score off of an assist from sophomore Tom Mooney. 
Steve Grafstrom then struck back for the Bisons with two more scores, giving him the hat-trick for the game, and his team the 3-1 ad­vantage. 
Steve Whitmore retaliated with a power-play goal for the Irish to cut the margin to 3-2 halfway through the second period. 
With 12:21 remaining in the game and the Bisons on the powerplay, left-wing Brent Chap­man carried the puck inside Notre Dakota's blue line where he preceeded to deek Akins out of position and shuffle the puck behind Akins into the net for anb unassisted goal. 
This shorthanded tally tied the game at three and seemed to give the Irish new life. 
Thirty-three seconds later, senior Dave Waldbillig gave Notre Dame its first lead off an assist· from Bob Herber. 
With 10:23 remaining, the bisons went on the power play. Notre Dame successfully killed the first half of the two-minute hooking penalty, but could not last the other half as North Dakota tied the game at four with 9:06 to play. For the weekend, Notre Dame's power-play defense was lacking as the bisons scored five goals on 11 attempts. 
Notre Dame responded with a power-play score of its own withg 
8:22  remaining.  bob  Thebeau  
recorded  the goal  with  an  assist  
from Waldbillig.  

The Irish extended the lead to 6-4 with 6:38 to go in the final period as Whitmore scored his second goal of the game. This time he was assisted by freshman Matt Hanzel and sophomore Mark Anquillare. 
With five minutes to play North Dakota shave the margin in half on a goal from Tom Folske. 
For the next two minutes, the 
W~\J EGctr 11-ie Jb1!a Af_51J"'f{ ~A VIAl~~ f 
mE FABULOUS 
ELfCTRIC LIGHT mUNDERBIRDS 
BANGLES ·~ 
DIFFERENT LIGHT 
ORCHESTRA 
lncfud/'!9_: 
BAlANCE OF POWER 
Manic Monday/Walk Ltke An Egyptian
TUFF EfiJFF , .. ··-····• 
Including: ~~~~ '"'~'""'
lncludl"9: 
If She Knew What She Wants Calling America/Heaven Only Knows Return Post/Walking Down Your Street GeHing To The Polni/Without Someone
~A~~:.= ~~ftm 
So Serious1\oo Time My Lovin/Why Get Up
... 
. 
FASTWAY ~ THE OUTFIELD :cor!
WAITING FOR THE ROAR 
Including: 
PLAY DEEP
TM Work~ Walls For You Kill Me With '!bur Heart Wahlng For The Roar /Uftle By Little Change/Move Over 
SADE ~d 
HOOTERS 
MIAMI SOUND
NERVOUS NIGHT
PROMISE 
including: 
MACHINE
Including: 
All You Zombies/And We Danced War Of The Hearts 
The Sweetest 18boo/ls tt A Crime 
PRIMITIVE LOVE 
Drty Axh~~~D~~~~n~~~~~r~eartbeat 
Never As Good As The First Time/Fear 

Bisons put Notre Dame goaltender Marc Guay to the test with a flurry of shots. Fortunately for the Irish, Guay was worthy of the challenge as Notre Dame preserved a hard­fought 6-5 win. 
For the game, Guay recorded 25 
saves  including  16  in  the  final  
period.  
After  a  scoreless  first  period,  

Tom Mooney opened the scoring on Saturday with a power-play goal at the 2:09 mark of the second stan­za to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead. Mooney was assisted by Mike McNeill and Bob Thebeau. 
The Bisons then responded with a power-play tally of their own to deadlock the game at one with 8:50 to play in the second period. 
A little over five minutes later, Mike McNeill scored off an assist from Herber to put the Irish in front 2-1. As was typical of this weekends seesaw action, the Bisons came roaring back with 1 :09 to go in the second to put the game even again. 
After North Dakota had regain­ed the lead at 3-2, Tim Reilly tied it up at three with 12:09 left in the game. Reilly was assisted by sophomore Lance Patten. 
The game-winner came at the 
12:24 mark when brent Chapman scored his second goal of the weekend. He was assisted by Bob Thebeau. 


(by Student Senate) 
Major Changes 
* One Hall Senator from each dorm 
*Four Class Presidents 
*Elimination of non-elected officials 
* presidential veto of Senate *veto overridden by 2/3 vote of Senate *Senate control of S.A.B. and 
Student Government expenditures 
"!«: Constitutional Amendments proposed by student body, Senate, or Hall Presidents Counsil 
~Constitutional Amendments adopted by 3/4 vote of entire Senate, (23 of 30 Senators), or a 2/3 vote of Student Body 
*'Standing Committees: Finance and Budget, Student Activities Board Steering, Campus Life, Student Concerns, and Rules Committee 
ftiE t-IJ\MM~S No~E D~E sool{sfoRE 

~~c:IC3L~-----------------------------------------!-M_o_nd_a_y_,M
__ar_c_h_3_,_19_8_6_-_P_a_ge---15 

--...--------------~--~---~--­

--------------~-----­
Bloom County 
MI717AY 
50UTIIPE •. (}(1/~T...

ROIJG+i I7A Y. 
YEP... fOIJ((jlfT'S 117N£RARY Nf.E.I710 UNWIN/?_. 
ts sn... 
= 

~ 
" 

'(ov SO'JN/) TERRIBLE••• 
'r'E"S, iTS •'JON6 AR,:IUND ••• WHAT's THAT?... 'r'ES 
RI6HT NOW. ,___ __,.. 





The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Skirt type 5 Sanctified 
10 Dry water 
course 14 Cassini 15 Hardship 16 Aid In crime 17 Spare 18 Afr, ruminant 19 Mystic rhyme 20 Praised 22 Suffering hero 24 Matrix 25 Isolated 26 Confirm 29 Set off 33 Praying figure in art 
34 Cattle breed 
35 Tijuana's land: abbr. 36 Sprite 37 More logical 38 A Fonda 39 Comp.pt. 40 Feel 41 Shaving item 42 Consecrate 44 Sheltered 45 Stubborn one 46 "-smile be 9 Certain plane 

~ 1986 Tnbune Medra Servrces, Inc 
3/3/86
All R1ghts Reserved 
Friday's Solution 

your..." 10 Hare habitation 47 Scold 11 Adjoin 50 Was an angel 12 Gainsay 54 Wife in Roma 13 Roman road 55 Parts of 21 Attic 
speech 23 Before long 57 Amerlnd 25 Reception 58 Location 26 Lassoed 59 January In 27 Begin 
Jerez 28 Strained 60 Irate 29 Obtuse 61 Printing term 30 Surprise 62 After a bit 31 Drift 63 Pitcher 32 Use energy 
34 "Inferno" poet 

DOWN 37 Mean tide 1 Breakwater 38 Indonesian 2 Holm oak 40 Leporid tall 


3 Shipshape 41 Tribunal In 
4 Disgrace Rome 
5 Bumbershoot's 43 Turk. Inn 48 Leave 52 Land of kinsman 44 Suppress 49 Routine leprechauns 
6 Enjoyed 46 Cuba-50 Worry 53 Hart 
7 Mild oath 47 Kiss 51 Boast 56 Sp. queen 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 


Campus 

*12 p.m. -Panel Discussion, "Perspectives on Economic Development," panel of six, Room 131 Decio, Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and the College of Arts and Letters 
*4: 15 p.m. -Public Policy Workshop, "The 
U.S. Economy -Problems and Prospects," Room 210 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by the 

Single-cell sitcoms 

Kellogg Institute and the College of Arts and Letters *7 p.m. -Movie, "Killing Us Softly," Social Concerns Film Series, Farley hall Basement, Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns *7:30 p.m. -Meeting, RASTA (Rally Against Starvation), Center for Social Con­cerns 
FlleNow! 
Help IRS process more quickly. 

A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

Monday, March 3, 1986 -page 16
S~orts 

Irish rally past Warriors in 2nd h81f, 74-66 
Stevenson scores key points Big rivalry as ND comes from 13 down continues 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN said Stevenson. "They were playing By NICK SCHRANTZ Assistant Sports Editor off me bacuse of David (Rivers), so Sports Writer I was open to score. Things started MILWAUKEE -Saturday's
MILWAUKEE -No one figured to flow and I felt good." 
Notre Dame-Marquette basket­
the spark would come from where It was obvious that Stevenson, 
ball game was like every other
it did. who continues to make quite a 
contest between the two schools
But after the Notre Dame basket­name for himself, was a bit of a 
since 1972 -the winning team 
ball team played a poor first half surprise to the Warriors. Marquette 
won by less than 10 points.
and trailed Marquette 34-27 Satur­spent much of the afternoon in a 1­

In addition, the game at the day, freshman guard Mark Steven­1-3 zone, trying to contain Rivers MECCA on Saturday had every son scored eight of the team's first and did a fine job of that. ingredient of past games that have 
12 points in the second half, giving But that left others, namely contributed to the creation of a the Irish a 39-37Jead with 15:26Jeft Stevenson, open and when rivers fierce and competitive rivalry between the Irish and the War­
in the game. and the Irish began to exploit this 
riors. As in past games, the out­
Although Marquette would re­in the Second half, it was all over 
come was in doubt until the final
main close for a while, the Irish for the Warriors. 
seconds, new stars emerged to
broke away in the last two minutes "We felt they were concentrating 
lead their teams, old heroes 
and left the floor with a 74-66 vic­on Rivers with the 1-1-3 zone, 
returned to play important roles 
tory, their sixth in a row over the almost playing a man-to-man on 

and the crowd was vocal and Warriors. him," said Irish head coach Digger sometimes intimidating. Stevenson, who had not ap­Phelps. "We had to get others into With all those factors present, peared so possessed since the Irish the flow, and David did a great job Notre Dame's 74-66 victory was loss to Dayton, scored 16 points in getting others into the offense by as close and exciting as many of the games from the past. 
the second half to finish with 18. playing unselfishly. 
Irish freshman Mark Stevenson 
"Stevenson hit some tough shots "We were able to set up Jots of 
emerged as the latest hero in the
today." said weary Warrior head screens on the weak-side for 
series, a'S he scored 18 points on 8­
coach Rick Majerus. "For a Stevenson and Barlow, and the Jobs 
of-12 shooting from the floor and 
freshman to take those kind of to Barlow were open." 
was 2-of-2 from the line. The 6-5 
shots and hit them ... those were Rivers, who suffered a sprained 

guard scored many of his 16 big-time shots. Some of those one­ankle early in the second half, ·second-half points from the out­ahnders from the left-side were finished with seven assists and 17 side, which helped open the inside unbelievable." points, seven of them corning on for the Irish front court. "I was able to penetrate the see RIVALS, page 11
see RALLY, page 12 
seams and pull and shoot my shot," 


•
ND women down Evansville In finale, 73-57 
By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It was hard to tell what exactly all the applause was for Friday night at the ACC when the Notre Dame women's basketball team closed out its 1985-86 home season. 
Was it for the Irish team which rolled to its seventh straight victory with a convincing 73-57 whipping of Evansville to raise its record to 19-7 (Il-l in the North Star Con­ference)? 
Or was it for Irish seniors Trena Keys and Lynn Ebben, who were playing for the last time before the home crowd after four years of helping the Notre Dame program grow as a Division I team? 
The answer is probably both. For while all 398 patrons in attendance knew it would be the last time in the home whites for Keys and Ebben, the Irish helped ease the pain of the moment with another solid perfor­mance against a considerably weaker oppponent. 
Leading the way for Notre Dame was center Sandy botham. The 6-2 sophomore, who had scored in double figures in the 15 previous games and who ranked 16th na­tionally in field goal percentage at 
60.1 percent, overcame some early difficulty to lead her team at both ends of the court. In fact, it was Botham's match up underneath with Evansville's Kath Sloan that was the most interesting and most im­portant factor in the contest. 
The 6-0 Sloan, who is the daughter of former NBA All-Star Jerry Slaon, showed much of the same fierce competitive instincts that were her father's trademarks. 

Her 22 points and eight rebounds, most of which came in the first half before Botham got into a groove, almost single-handedly kept the Lady Aces within striking distance of the Irish. 
Botham, however, proved too much over the length of the battle for Sloan and Evansville as she connected on 9-of-9 shooting from the field for 18 points and hauled down eight rebounds. 
"The matchup between Sloan and Botham was a great one," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "Overall Sandy won it, but Sloan made a big difference for them. Evansville as a team just played it tough and didn't make a lot of mistakes." 
Although the final score may not reflect it, the Lady Aces did keep it close for much of the game. Carries by Sloan and forward Gretchen Eisenhauer (16 points on the night), Evansville was able to draw the Notre Dame defense out of position enough times to stay even on the boards. This enabled coach Bill Barnett's 6-19 team to go to the in­termission down only 37-28. 
"Half of their (32) rebounds were offensive rebounds," noted DiStnislao. "!hat's why this game was so close. Evansville was runn­ing a good passing game and they were pulling our people off their matchups. We weren't doing a good job recoving to block out." 
In the second half, however, Notre Dame corrected some of those flaws and was able to pull away from Evansville. The rout began with 10 minutes left in the game when the Irish ran off a string of 10 consecutive points to increase their lead from 57-47 to 67-47. 
Freshman guard Diondra Toney (12 points off the bench) started the streak with a rebound layup off a Keys miss. Keys, however, didn't miss her next two chances, as she took passes from Toney and point guard Mary Gavin (6 points, 13 assists) and laid them in for four of her 14 points. A quick pass from Keys then gave Ebben (6 points) an easy lay in off the glass to finish the streak, the hopes of Evansville and the home careers of the two players. 
"I felt a little sentimental know­ing I'll never play another game here," said Keys, who saw only 24 minutes of play because of a sore shoulder. "But every game I have butterflies in my stomach, and this was not different. It just felt good to win." 


56th Bengal Bouts begin with KO 
quickly it happened," said Seals, have been at 158 pounds, as Jeff
By CHUCK FREEBY 

who may have been the most stunn­"The Masher" Masciopinto won on
Sports Writer 

ed man in the crowd of 3,242-with a split decision over Ed "Wolf' 
If you heard a loud noise outside the possible exception of Santry. Gavagan. Both fighters drew blood your window at about 8 o'clock last "I entered the bouts because I with combinations in the first two night, it was only the "Night Train" just wanted to help out and feed the rounds. The two seniors then stood roaring by. needy," added Seals. "I'm just hap­toe-to-toe in the third round, ex­
Mark "Night Train" Seals, a 145-PY to make it to the semifinals on changing vicious right hands and pound whirling mass of muscle Wednesday." earning a prolonged standing ova­from Fisher Hall, scored one of the Seals' semifinal fight looks like it tion from the crowd. quickest knockouts in Bengal Bouts could be a great one, as he'll square history to highlight a 42-bout card off against another hard-hitter in "I pretty much went with my one­in the opening night of the 56th an­Pat Loughran. Loughran exhibited two one combination, because he nual intracollegiate boxing tourna­a strong overhand right in earning a doesn't come to the body much," ment Sunday evening at Stepan unanimous decision over Daniel noted Masciopinto, who advanced Center. Florin.. to the semis as a freshman. "He was 
Seals, a senior from Atlanta, In other 145-pound action, tough, but when he dipped his left, leveled Steven Santry only 14 Thomas Newell earned a I just threw my right." seconds into the first round. Santry unanimous decision over David "I don't know what happened," led off the match with a good jab, Fink, while David Dvorak scored commented Gavagan, a finalist in but Seals answered with a left jab two knockdowns against Michael last year's bouts. "We were both and a roundhouse right hook which Bacula before the referee stopped going at it pretty hard, but I don't 
The 56th annual Bengal Bouts got under way last night with 42 sent Santry to the canvas with a the contest at 1:12 of the third think I got out of the way enough. I bouts in 15 weight classes. Chuck Freeby has the highlights in his sickening thud. round. 
see BOUTS, page 10 story at right. "I was very surprised at how The best fight of the evening may 


