Aerobics -page 7 




Schlafly, Weddington discuss women's issues at speaker series debate 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Court case Roe vs. Wade which and MARK PANKOWSKI legalized abortion. Senior StaffReporters Sponsored by several organiza­
tions, including Notre Dame's 
The changes caused by women's junior class and Notre Dame and liberation and the legalization of Saint Mary's student governments, abortion have been either a blessing Weddington and Schlafly debated or a curse, depending on whether the topic "The Changing Roles of one agreed with conservative Men and Women in the 1980s." spokesperson Phyllis Schlafly or at­Despite the debate's title, the torney Sarah Weddington at last speakers did touch on the issue of night's debate. abortion in response to questions 
Speaking before a oacked from the audience. Washington Hall, Schlafly con­Weddington, briefly discussing tended that feminists who par­the Roe Vs. Wade case which ticipated in the movement 10 to 15 brought her into national pro­years ago are now bitter because minence, said that "it (the case) was they have no husband or children. a question of constitutionality of 
"We find that young women are who should make the choice." talking about their malady, which "I don't think the issue in this they call 'baby hunger.' They country can ever be 'will abortion discovered that, after all, they did be available or not,' " she said. want a baby," said Schlafly. "The real issue is whether it will be 
Weddington, however, scii.d the legal or illegal and who should have liberation movement has given the right to decide." women more choices and more op­Schlafly, however, strongly portunities. disagreed. Citing statistics showing 
Because of legislation pushed nearly 10 million abortions have through with feminist support, been performed in the last 10 years, women may now vote, receive she said, "I think that is a national 
equal pay for equal work and tragedy ...." return to their job after having a "We all know there Is a baby in
Be positive 
Sophomore Brad Patelli finds out his bloo,d type 
baby, said Weddington, the' at­
as Brenda Lilves takes his donation at the Student 
torney who won the 1973 Supreme see DEBATE, page 5 


ND alum discusses Star Wars, apartheid at lecture 
According to Pierre, the idea capable of voluntarily sharing
By JOE MURPHY Pierre, who served as Assis­Staff Reporter tant Secretary of the Army was initiated in the 1960s when power," no matter how often Research, Development and Ac­interest developed around the they say they will. Pierre first became interested
The progress of the Star Wars quisition in the U.S. Depart­possibility of shooting down 
missiles. in African affairs in the 1950s
defense program was the main ment of the Army from 1977 to 

while a student at Notre Dame.
topic of Percy Pierre's segment 1981, working specifically with Although research continued 
"In the mid '50s, there was a
of the Distinguished Alumni the Strategic Defense Initiative through the next decade, and 
several theories developed, very strong feeling that Africa
Lecture Series yesterday. He (Star Wars) Program, explained also addressed the issues of the history and rationale of the Pierre maintained that the pro­would be free and colonized South African apartheid and program. spect of an operating Star Wars very quickly," he said. 
divestment. According to Pierre, although system is highly optimistic and Pierre, also a member of the The Star Wars program is an the system has been described by practically impossible. University Board of Trustees, important issue now because of the president, and its moral and "I can't see that it will bring commented on the issue of the shuttle disaster, said Pierre. political implications have been about the possibilities that we University divestment. He said 
"The disaster has shaken the widely debated, ''we have not yet had hoped for," he said. he believes the Sullivan Prin­Pierre expressed equal ciples do not respect both races,
faith of the nation in other focused on the real issue ­

technological programs," he whether it's going to work!" pessimism when addressing the adding that the University said, adding, "Star Wars will Tracing the roots of the pro­South African apartheid pro­should not divest until proper gram, Pierre discussed the blem. Pierre beleives that "the relations are established with
come under close scrutiny in the next few years." evolution of the defense pro-white South Africans are in-blacks as well as whites. 



Aquino issues arrest warrants for two Marcos legislators 
MANILA, Philippines -Presi­dent Conizon Aquino's government issues arrest orders yesterday for two Marcos legislators, now in hiding, who are accused of killing her supporters before and after the Feb. 7 election. 
A government news release said Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile ordered the arrests of Na­tional Assemblymen Arturo Pacificador, an assistant majority leader, and Orlando Dulay. Both went underground when former President Ferdinand Marcos, who had ruled for 20 years, fled to Hawaii on Feb. 26 with his family and retinue. 
In other developments: 
Aquino scheduled her first full Cabinet meeting for tomorrow. On the agenda is a proposal to pro­claim a revolutionary government and dissolve the National Assembly, in which Marcos' New Society Movement holds two-thirds of the seats. 
Exiled leaders of a Moslem separatist rebellion returned to negotiate autonomy for the Moslem minority. The Philippines also is plagued by a communist in­surgency, in which Aquino says she will try to achieve a cease-fire. 
An official U.S. team arrived to spend a week assessing the Aquino government's needs in U.S. military and economic aid. 
Pacificador is wanted in the Feb. 11 assassination of Evelio Javier, Aquino's campaign chairman in the central Philippine province of Anti­que, and also faces murder charges in the deaths of seven of Javier's followers. Javier ran against Pacificador in the 1984 National Assembly election. 
Prosecutors had recommended action against Pacificador while Marcos still was in power, but nothing was done. 
Dulay is sought in a series of kill­ings and kidnappings of Aquino's followers in the northern province ofQuirino. 
see AQUINO, page 5 


The Obserwr Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
Raisin2 the drinking a2e won't help curb drinking, according to <:ierald Globetti, a sociolOgy professor at the Univer­sity of Alabama. ''Two things will happen," he said. ''The com-. munity and law enforcement officials will lose interest, and people will learn how to circumvent the law." -The Observer 
Bull-market fireworks were set off on Wall Street Tuesday as stocks ran up their second biggest gain ever, carrying all the major market averages to new highs. Analysts said the rush into stocks by investing institutions and professional traders was encouraged by falling interest rates and signs that the oil market might be stabilizing. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrials jumped 43.10 to 1,746.05, for its biggest gain in points since it soared a record 43.41 on Nov. 3, 1982. The previous closing high for the average had been 1,713.99 on Feb. 27 of this year. -AP 
Of Interest 
Guitar players and other musicians are invited to bring their instruments to the coffeehouse sponsored by the Overseas Development Network at the Center for Social Concerns from 8 to 12 tonight. For more information, call Tom Buckley at 283-1441. -The Observer 
Katherine Tillman, professor in the Program of Liberal Studies, will present "Reflections on Prayer and Action" at 7 tonight in the Lady Chapel of Sacred Heart Church. This is the fourth in the Center for Social Concerns/University Ministry Lenten Series. -The Observer 
"The Hitman," a film on the death penalty, will be presented tonight at 9:45 in the Center for Social Concerns. It will be followed by an informal discussion on the death penalty spon­sored by Amnesty Internaional -The Observer 
John Reps, professor of city and regional planning m the College of Architecture, Art and Planning at Cornell University, will speak on "Thomas Jefferson as Town Planner, or the Intellectual versus the City" at 4 today in Room 202 of the Ar­chitecture Building. -The Observer 
Juan Rial, author and professor of political science in Uruguay, will speak on "The Reconstruction of the Collective Memory as a Political Problem" at a brown bag seminar to be con­ducted in Room 131 of Decio Hall at noon tomorrow. The seminar is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. -The Observer 
John Seigenthaler, editorial director of USA Today and publisher of The Tennessean, has cancelled his lecture scheduled for tonight at the Memorial Library Auditorium. -The Observer 
Radio Free Notre Dame will hold an open forum tonight from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. on WVFI-AM 640. Hosts John Rogers and Sheila McDaniel will take listeners' calls and comments on any topic. -The Observer 
I I 
The Junior Class lecture series "The Quiet Revolution: A view of changing values and lifestyles" continues tonight with a presentation by Sr. Joan Chittiser entitled, "It's a Man's World ­The Question Is -Why?" to take place at 8 in the Center for Con­tinuing Education. -The Observer 

Weather 
The mud pitS for An Tostal will probably arrive early, as there is a 90 percent chance of rain today with highs near 40. A 70 percent chance of rain tonight and tomorrow with lows near 40 and highs in the lower 50s. 
Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ........ Rob Luxem Typesetters ........ Sarah, Mary, Bill News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ...... Mark McLaughlin Sports Copy Editor .... Marty Strasen Viewpoint layout \ ... Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor . .. Gertie Wimmer Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels ND Day Editor ....... Ellyn Mastako Ad Design . ...... Catherine Ramsden Photographer .......... Jim Carroll 
The O~rver ( t·sPS ~99 2·~01111 lis published Monday through friday except duron~ exam and \'acation period~ Tht: OIMM!rvt!r i!\ published hy the studenb oflhe l"niver~ity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary•s College. Subscriptions may be pun·hased fi•r HO per year ( J.lO per semester) by writing The O~rver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana ~M%. 
The O~rver is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are r~St""Y~d. 


Reagan's military moves, philosophy considered scary 
"Greetings:" 
-The opening line of the U.S. armed forces draft notice. It seems that every time I turn around, President Reagan is scaring the hell out of me. 
Last month, it happened when he was dedicating the new airstrip in Grenada -you remember, the airstrip begun by the communists, only to be halted by the United States armed forces. The United States finished the work the Grenadan communists began, and the president spoke at the dedication. 
Predictably, he called the overthrow of the tiny Caribbean island a stunning victory for democracy and he remembered and mourned the young American men who were killed in the "battle." And then he said something very disturbing. 
, 
Reagan said the United States' victory over the spread of communism in Grenada was a wonderful thing, and that the situation in that country at the time of his attack reminded him of a similar situation going right now in Nicaragua. And he intimated that a similar reaction could be appropriate. 
Holy smokes. 
Reagan was equally frightening last week when he began an intensive lobbying effort directed at Con­gress to award an additional $100 million in aid to Nicaragua. This aid would include $70 million in direct military assistance for the contra rebels fighting the communist Sandinista government of Daniel 
Ortega. 
Double holy smokes. 
Now get this. Toward the end of last week Pat Buchanan, the president's chief speech writer and number one mouthpiece, wrote a column in the Washington Post claiming that those congressmen who resist the aid package will be held fully responsi­ble by history, a theme Reagan stressed earlier in the week. But Buchanan also said congressmen should support the president on this issue because if they didn't they would be siding with the Sandinista com­munists currently in charge in Nicaragua. 
Deservedly, Washington is up in arms about this. This accusation resonates of the McCarthy-era ac­cusations of the 1950s -still more evidence that we are living in the 1950s. Even conservative Republicans have expressed their anger at this red-baiting. 
Buchanan and his boss don't seem to understand that just because somebody disagrees with their opi­nion they aren't necessarily communists or communist sympathizers. But maybe Buchanan and Reagan understand this all too well. 
In last week's tactics, Reagan attempted to pit patriotic Republicans against the liberal Democrats who were ''unwitting" supporters of the Sandinistas. This week, Reagan has admitted that the fight for the $100 millino will be an uphill battle, and yet a top Reagan aide admitted, "We pretty much accomplished what we set out to do." 
application, mail this coupon to Stanford Summer Session. Building 10, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305.
Ill GillTAlE 1111111111 

THE ··KAPlAN ADVANTAGE.. OOfSN·r HAVE TO END WITH YOUR ADMISSION TO LAW SCHOOL! 

STANFORD
THE SAME SKILLED INSTRUCTION THAT PREPARED YOU FOR THE LSAT. CAN GUIDE YOU THROUGH FIRST YEAR LAW' 
lmDDUCTION ID LAW SCHOOL 


SUMMER
A~.fi. ....SEMINAR 
• 
CASE BRIEFING ·lOATS • LEGAL WAmNG 

• 
CMLPROCEDURE • STATUlORY ANALYSIS •CONTAACTS•RESEAACHMEnHODS•PROPERTY 


;;:;0.. 
.-------------, 
I FREE! I
I I
REGULAR RAXe 
I WITH. PuRCHASE OF I 
IREGUlAR FRIES ANDI
1
I MmiUM DRINK I
I . 
I Our famous Jtax roaat beef, sliced 1 Ithin, piled high, and served on a 1I l*same-seed roll. 
IRea• prewnr coupon before ~!'119· ~ . I 
I 
coupon per penon per visit. Not valid m c~m~tion I 
"' 
..;th any other Rax olfer. Offer good al partJCJpabl19 1 
~ "' 
IRax Restaurants. l/20 cent cash redemption value. 
Q
· •1985 Rax Restaurants, Inc. I 
S!
1 
I · I 
JUNE 23 THROUGH AUGUST 16

I· -1
I I 

IL-------------1I 
./ 

If he was trying to further alienate the liberals, turn off more than a few conservatives, and again scare the hell out of me, then he succeeded. 
It should be obvious by now that Reagan wants to go into Nicaragua with American troops and over­throw the government. And because he cannot run for re-election in 1988, it is equally obvious that he would want to start such an action within the next two years, either by congressional declaration of war, or by his ability to temporarily send troops through his ex­ecutive powers. 
That will mean compulsory military drafts, a morally questionable war and massive civil unrest in the streets of the United States. Many people will be killed. Many more will be injured. 
Sound familiar? 
Throughout the 1960s and into the 1970s, American armed forces were in Vietnam on a similar crusade to curb the spread of communism. We !sot. We also lost more than 50,000 young American men. That's about the number of people in the Notre Dame stadium when it's sold out. More than 300,000 Americans were wounded. That's about three times the population of South Bend. Wounded bad. 
Reagan and his supporters claim Nicaragua is dif­ferent from Vietnam because "it is only a two days' drive from Harlingen, Texas." I don't think that's a convincing enough argument to ignore the lessons of Vietnam. 
I hope Reagan is haunted by Vietnam's victims 
before he decides to send you and me into his 
nightmare. 
For the 1986 Stanford Summer Session Bulletin and 

The Observer Wednesday, March 12, 1986 -page 3 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dome and Saint Mary's is accepting opplicot1ons for the follow1ng positions 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Quest1ons about these pos1tions should be directed to Dennis Corngon at The Observer office. Personal statements and resumes ore due Thursday. March 13. ot7p.m 

The Ob•erver aew• depart•eat Ia aow ac:c:eptiag appllc:atioa• for the foUowtag poeltioa•: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Applications are due Friday at 5 p.m. Contact Frank Llpo at The Observer olflce or at 239-5303 for further Information. 

Class officer candidates announce intention to run at election meeting 

By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
As the bells of Sacred Heart Church sounded at midnight, can­didates armed with posters began their campaigns last night for class offices and for the office of off­campus commissioner. 
Two senior class, two junior class, and nine sophomore class tickets returned the 100-signature petitions required by Ombudsman rules to become official candidates on the March 18 ballot. 
Three candidates likewise qualified for the off-campus com­missioner race. 
Official senior class office tickets running, listed in the order of presi­dent, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer, are Mark Foley, Kevin Daly, Meg McGlinn, and Mike O'Grady; Dave Miklos, Melissa Moody, Fred Nelson, and Ed LaHood. 
Appearing on the ballot for junior class office, listed in the same order as above, will be Cathy Nonnenkamp, Mike Kurowski, Elizabeth Kennedy, and Sean Doyle; Matthew Dolan, Daniel 
at 
\0, 

Walsh, Kevin Lee and Thomas Hudak. 
Official sophomore class tickets running, listed in the same order, are Pat Cooke, Theresa Barnhart, Chris Ann Downes, and John Ruhlini; Liam Brennan, Mary Mc­Carthy, Jeff Utz, and Tim Lake; Mike Moynihan, Chris Sullivan, Tim Cummins, and Patti Fanning; George Molinsky, Karen Ruff, An­dy Kinney, and Carolyn Aylward. 
Other official sophomore office tickets, listed in the same order as above, are Stephen Shake, Mike Kletzly, Gretchen Schaffer, and Susan Rosenthal; Kris Malaker, Brian DiBona, Melissa Houk, and John Ofenloch; Patrick Creadon, Erica Hinkle, Tom DiResta, and Sam Bailey; Michael Kelly, Ed­mund Rossini, Heather Breiter, and Linda Goldschmidt; Michael Keegan, Martine Beamon, Pete Hartweger, and Ellen Nichols. 
Official candidates for off­campus commissioner are Mark Peabody, Steve Taeyaerts, and Race Thoman. 
Ombudsman Elections Officer Tom Brennan said additional can­didates may run as write-ins by sub-


including corned beef sandwiches,l Irish stew & cabbage!
S5 donation----~ 
-March 17th, St. Pat's Day, 9:00PM til close.­


Tickets ore available now! 

t of admission or more info, contact: -~,_,....,~.,...._..,.__,.,""'Tl 
John McCobe rm.368, ALUMNI Jeanne DoOley rm:634. P.E. Bridget Mccarson rrn.311, BREEN-PHll!1lPS ··.. Kt?lfyMc · rm.228 f?.W. Roy Corter rm.343, CAVANAUGH. ~~;;~;~~1:1 . · . ~29 ~t:.;EQ'S James Sass rm.232 DILLON· · .Chris KvOOh€lk . 228 $QRJN Carol Meaney rm.313 FARLEY Mike James rm. 143 STANFORD 
Sue Compilli rrn .409 Andi Lantz rm.203WALSH . Luke DiSabato rm.923 HANNER' '+%'if:' . ,, Matt or Andy Dougherty rm .221 GRACE 1'*"0olette Moore rm; McCANDt.ESS Mimi Storen rm.314 LYONS · 
the St. Pat's celebration that helps the 
United Way! 
mitting a petition with 200 signatures before March 14. Run-off elections, if necessary, will be held on March 20. 
The addition of junior class of­
fice ticket to the ballot that did not 
attend the mandatory March 5 can­
didate meeting was related to the 
lack of a districk 2 senate candidate 
ticket, according to Brennan. He 
said the Ombudsman Election 
Committee decided that candidates 
who did not attend could submit 
petitions by the March lO deadline 
and appear on the ballot to prevent 
an entirely write-in ballot for 
district 2 senator. 
"Whatever decision was made 
would have to be consistent and ap­
ply to all races," Brennan said. 
The junior class race previously 
had one ticket. 
Ombudsman Director David 
Stephenitch also said that can­
didates were concerned about 
perceived "gray areas" of election 
rules. After the campaign problems 
last year, "they now know that we 
don't just state these rules for fun," 
he said. 



Candidates for upcoming senate race announced 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
Just when the posters and the 
platforms of the Student Body 
Presidential campaigns have disap­
peared from campus walls and 
billboards, those for the Student 
Body Senate races have replaced 
them as those campaigns began last 
night at midnight. 
Districts I, 3, and 4 each pit two 
candidates against each other, 
while in districts 2 and 5 there are 
three nominations for the post. 
Ombudsman Elections Officer Tom Brennan said potential senatorial candidates for each of the five districts needed to have a petition of 75 signatures in by 2 
p.m. yesterday in order to receive a nomination to the senate. 
Campaigning ends at midnight next Monday, and the elections will be held the following Tuesday, Brennan said. 
In district one, which includes St. Edward's, Lewis, Holy Cross, Car­roll, Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, and Old College, Patrick Kiernan is running against Brian Holst. 
District 2 consists of Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen­Phillips, and Farley, and is con­tested by Tom Vasti, Pete Witty and John Gardiner. 
Dillon, Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Badin, and Howard fall into district where An­drew Vierhile goes up against John Bauer. 
Steven Viz and J. Christopher Murphy are competing for the district 4 slot. Planner, Grace, Pas­querilla East and Pasquerilla West make up that district. 
Eileen Hartigan, Fred Pugliano, and Chris Sheedy are the nominees for off campus district representa­tion. 
According to Ombudsman cam­paign rules, each candidate has a $45 campaign spending limit. The rules also stipulate that any write-in candidates must submit a petition of 150 signatures in order to be eligible. 


The Observer Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 4 






55 
23 
China 
Foreign enrollment at ND increases over past years 
Special to The Observer 
Mention Notre Dame in a foreign country a generation or two ago and chances are the listener would think of a Paris cathedral. Today, the odds are good that he is aware of an American university by that name and might even know so­meone from his country atten­ding the school. 
Enrollment of international students at Notre Dame this year totals 436, a whopping in­crease over last year's 375. They come from 64 countries and the majority are seeking a graduate degree. The 301 graduate stu­dents enrolled this year have a better than two to one margin over the 135 undergraduates. 
Students from China account for half of this increase with their numbers jumping from 23 to 55 this year. Countries with large numbers in previous years, Taiwan and Mexico, are now taking second place to China and Malaysia. 
Another influence was a deci­sion by Margaret Thatcher to tighten the British scholarship programs for overseas students. Malaysians decided to search out other educational oppor­tunities, according to Arthur Grubert, director of Notre Dame's International Student office, and many selected the United States. 
Also, while many countries avoid sponsoring both graduate and undergraduate programs Malaysia is apparently reversing the trend. They are up from two 
_p cP. .D 0 o o 
e<iatiny,ex~erien'6ing_ Cnu~~rH 


oo 0 D s••••
IT 0 ••••• 
.

tickets in Officeof Student 
Affairs -$3·-~~ 
Source: Special to The Observer Observer Graphic I Mark Weimholt 

Enrollment of international students at Notre Dame 
.lastyear 
D this year 
11 7 
I 
4
2 I 
1 
I 

Malaysia Indonesia Singapore 
to seven students, Indonesia up 
from seven to 11, and Singapore 
up from one to four. 
The recent announcement that Notre Dame would use a $6 million gift from Joan Kroc to begin an International Institute for Peace Studies is expected to open the door for additional numbers from foreign coun­tries. Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, said he could foresee an ex­change of students from Russia, China and other world powers where serious concern exists for nuclear disarmament. Eastern Europe is presently represented by students . from Hungary, Poland and Yugoslavia. 
A graduate degree in business administration is currently the most popular among the post­baccalaureate students. There are 38 M.B.A. candidates, 35 chemistry, 34 physics, 28 elec­trical engineering, 24 economics, 23 mathematics, 15 government, 14 civil engineer­ing, <l;nd 12 each in theology and biology. Others are pursuing studies in law, philosophy, microbiology, English, history, American Studies, metallurgical engineering, modern languages, sociology and music. 
In the undergraduate area, there are 33 seniors, 48 juniors, 26 sophomores and 28 freshmen enrolled at Notre Dame. There are 16 students enrolled in both aerospace and business ad­ministration, followed by 12 finance, 11 electrical engineer­ing, pre-professional studies, ar­chitecture, etc. 




Switek discusses preliminary plans for student government at HPC 
By FRANK LIPO 
News Editor 
Mike Switek, Student Body President-elect, attended last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting and spoke of some of his preliminary plans for the coming year. 
"Whether we expected it or not, we won .... We're serious about this. We've got a lot of work to do," he said. 
"Our most important priority is a new cabinet," said Switek. He said he and Don Montanaro, student body vice president-elect, will choose both students who have ex­perience in student government and students new to student govern­ment. 
"We want to have fun, but we have a lot of serious ideas," he said. Switek said he will work to eliminate the overlap between stu­dent government and the HPC. He and Montanaro will stay at Notre Dame during spring break to study student government in preparation for the beginning of their terms April 1, he said. 
Joy Smith, a student member of a committee which is studying the 

WED.-(f)cg{t @3®[!)~ A11 sour drmk~. only, 75cl -whiskey sours­·-col ms-etc ­
Thurs.-Hola Am1gos111 Yes, 1t's 
Mexi can N1 te -Corona -other-~1ex1 can 1n1por-t.:3->$1 -NACHOS-> 75c Cuevo Gold shots-SOc 
FRI.-The boys are back A.r;tJr;; K?tM 
M1xed Drmks and Drafts 75cll SAT.-mor'e /l,fli)@ li'flflrBO con1e
' 

out for the best l1ve dance 
music m MJchlanall 


FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1088 238-7521 
parking situation at Notre Dame, asked HPC members for feedback on parking problems at Notre Dame. Tickets, crowded lots, van­dalism, enforcement of fines and parking regulations for behind the Center for Continuing Education were topics which were discussed. 
Smith asked the HPC to support the efforts of her committee and asked for additional student feed­back in the future. 
The route of a St. Patrick's Day bus sponsored by Saint Mary's stu­dent government was distributed to hall presidents by Kathleen Juckniess, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's HPC representative. The bus will travel from LeMans Hall at 8 p.m. March 17 and will make a half-hour circuit. It will stop at the Library Circle, Campus View apartments, Turtle Creek apart­ments, the Goodwill lot near Bridget McGuire's Filling Station, the corner of Howard and St. Louis streets and the corner of Leeland and Rex streets. 
The school bus will make this route every half-hour until 2 a.m. J uckniess said the bus will not be available to students leaving the two campuses, but rather will be available for students returning to the campuses. 
Bill Lytle, Cavanaugh Hall presi­dent, said the Around the Corner Club is sponsoring two bus trip to Chicago on Saturday. One bus will leave at 9:45 a.m. for Chicago and will cost $3. The other bus will leave at 5:30p.m. and will cost $9, which includes a ticket to the Chicago Bulls-Milwaukee Bucks basketball game. 
Lytle said details and tickets are available from the Student Ac­tivities Office. 
A benefit for the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program will be held Sunday from 1 to 3 p.m. at Chippewa Bowl, according to Shawn Sexton. Teams of up to five people can sign up to bowl a free game. Participants are asked to get sponsors to pledge a certain amount of money for each pin, said Sexton. 
A $150 prize will be given to the three top money-raisers, he said. Smaller prizes, such as T-shirts, will be given to other participants. Sexton siad interested students can contact him at 283-2235 or can con­tact their hall president. 
0 
e I \ 

r"----------------------------·~ -~~-­

' ' 
The Observer 
The Arts &LeHers Advisory Council presents 
MEET YOUR MAJOR 
Wednesday, March 12th 
Modern/Classical Languages  1040'Shag  4-Spm  
English  210 O'Shag  I 4:30-5:30pm  
Arts/Letters Engineering  2100'Shag  5-6pm  
An'thropology  210 O'Shag  7-8pm  

Everyone welcome to attend. 



Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 5 


Debate 
continuedfrom page 1 
the womb. We've seen pictures of it," said Schlafly, a delegate to several Republican National Con­ventions and president of the con­servative group Eagle Forum. 
"It is the function of government to protect life and the unborn baby is life," said Schlafly, adding that she believes 98 percent of women getting abortions do so for reasons of convenience or to avoid damag­ing their career. 
In addition ,to the feminist move­ment's effect on women and abor­tion, Schlafly and Weddington took opposing sides on the role of men and women in the family . 
Schlafly contended that ''there are just millions of us out there who believe in the traditional fami­ly where the husband and father is the breadwinner and the protector and the provider, and where the mother is the full-time homemaker who gives round-the-clock love to her children." 
"I think the traditional family is the plan that offers the most suc­cess and fulfillment for the most number of people," she said. 
Yet, Schlafly said, "I wouldn't want you to think I want everyone to get married .... It just leaves more men for those that do want to get married." 

Weddington, however, said the traditional family was economical­ly unfeasible for most people. She cited several reasons, including the rising costs of housing and college education. 
Sarah Weddington 

As a result of such economic fac­tors, Weddington told those in the audience that most of them would not be living in a traditional family. 
She also said she sees a change in men's and women's attitudes in regard to their role in the family. "I 

THE OBSERVER BUSINESS DEPARTMENT 

is accepting applications for the following positions 
.Accounts Receivable Clerk 
•Accounts Payable Clerk .Payroll Clerk 
Sophomore Accounting Majors preferred 
Questions should be directed to Eric Scheuermann at 
The Observer office. Personal statements and 
resumes are due Thursday, March 13 at 5:00pm. 
,... 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following 
positions: 

Assistant VIewpoint Editor 
Questions about this position should be directed to 
Scott Beorby. Personal statements and resumes 
ore due Friday, March 14 at 5 p.m. 

, .••••........•.•.------------------···

----·------------·· ,.... ... ,.. 



Long Island Bus 
SPRING BREAK 
Roundtrip $77 One way $50 
Bus leaves March 21 & returns Aprlll 
, ' 



,.. ·····--·--·-· 
see a tremendous change in younger women and younger men and some older men, with much more recognition that a family is a two-person responsibility today." 
This includes both women work­ing outside the home and men help­ing with housework and caring for children, she said. 
However, Schlafly said not many 
Phyllis Schlafly 
men are willing to share the respon­sibilities involved in housework and caring for children. 
"When you look at the big pic­ture, you are telling the young women a very unrealistic thing if you are telling them that you can have your career and your babies and your husband, and he's going to share 50-50 in the baby's (care) and the housework," she said. 

Aquino 
continuedfrom page 1 
Some of Aquino's advisors want her to proclaim a revolutionary government to make it easier to reform the system Marcos left behind. Others say the action would be superfluous because she clearly gained power through a popular revolution. 
The National Assembly declared Marcos the election victor, which it had the power to do under the con­stitution the former president wrote during martial law in 1973. That proclamation led to the military­civil rebellion that drove him into exile. 
Kaplan 
LSATPREP. .. 
BE OVER40 

8tLOVEITI 
No matter what your age, ifyou plan on going to law school, a score over 40 can put spring in your step! 
'lbu see, candidates who score between 40 and 48 on the new Law School Admission Test enjoy the best chance ofbeing ac­cepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top firms or cmporations-;., • 
A1 the Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Center. LSM prepa­ration is a fine art. So much so that Kaplan has more "'over 40's"' grads than any othertest prep 
firm in the nation. 
l
Isn't that just the test edge 
yourhnwcareerdese~? 

KAPLAN 
e 
STANlfYH KAP!ANfDUCATIONAl GNrB!lrD 
The worlds leading 
test prep organization. 
Call Oaya, Evenings, EvenWeekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend In 46637 (219) 272-4135 
For Information Regarding Over 120 Centel"l 
OUTIIDE ItY. ITATE CALL 
TOll Fllll-:m-17U preperallon b the LSIII" 
--30Gtt.. ~GMIInalkJM 

... 






~i~~~_()__i_ll___
t_·__________________w_e_dn-esd-ay-,M-ar-ch-12_,19-86--p-ag-e6 
More than talent needed to win in the tournament 
"Notre Dame won't make the Sweet Six­teen."-AI McGuire 
This lack of respect for the Irish has been evidenced in the polls throughout the season. Notre Dame defeated DePaul and Marquette in the same week and dropped from 12th to 13th in UPI's coaches' poll. Why oh why are 
r the Irish given no chance to win the NCAA 
r tournament? The answer is coaching. While 
r Richard "Digger" Phelps is a man of integri­
r ty, (one of the few coaches to speak out 
r against recruiting abuses, as well as 
r graduating every four-year player he has 
r 
r 
coached), his ability to win an NCAA title is 
r 
r 
r Bob Fitzgerald and 
r 
Paul Kotecki
r guest column 
r 
r 
questionable. One must examine the Irish season as a whole to discover several unsettling trends in the play of the Irish. These recurring events place a damper on the optimism that the Irish fans are filled with upon every Notre Dame tournament ap­pearance. 
The following facts cannot be denied. 
Confident players win NCAA tournament games. 
Phelps has long been a believer in "scare­tactic" substitutions. Enter Joe Price for Mark Stevenson. Watch Price miss his first open 17-foot jumper. Watch him trot to the bench at the next break in play. Enter Gary Voce. Watch the unseasoned Voce put a 12­foot jumper in off the glass but fail to box­out on the defensive end. Watch him stride to the bench at the next dead ball. Cheer for Scott Hicks as he gives David Rivers a much­needed rest. Watch Hicks try to run the of­fense as the rest of the players stand around. Watch him shuffle to the bench at the next TV time out. Half the Irish players look to the bench whenever they take a chance on the court. Consequently, the only way to play for the Irish .is to be David Rivers, Ken Barlow or to play tentatively and not make any glaring mistakes. Rivers and Barlow are the best players on the team because they play with the knowledge that they can afford to make a few mistakes and not be riding the pine. Phelps stayed with Price at Syracuse (even though Price missed his first shot and traveled his next time with the ball) and Price responded with his best game of the year. One could only be reminded that Phelps said before the game, "Joe Price will come out of retirement. He will have a good game because I say he will have a good game." Ad­vice: stop undermining the confidence that Hicks, Sean Connor and Voce need to make positive contributions in the NCAAs. Either that or pray for Barlow and Rivers to avoid foul trouble. Unfortunately, we all remember how much success the last Notre Dame coach who relied on prayer had. 
Bench coaching is often the decisive factor in tournament success. 
Forty seconds left until halftime, the home team has the ball but the visiting team has made a long run to cut the deficit to five points. "Carolina will hold the ball for the last shot, they won't shoot because they're too well coached." -AI McCuire. The ad­vantage in taking the last shot is to either go up by seven, or at the worst, five at halftime. Notre Dame repeatedly takes a shot with 15 seconds left, giving the opposition a golden opportunity to go into the locker room with invaluable momentum. 

See Gary Voce miss an eight-foot hook, see Dayton cut the lead to five. This is a moral victory for a team that was on the verge of being blown out in the first half. Fortunately, Rivers scored on a magical move to reinstate the Irish lead. Isolated ex­ample? No! This scenario has occurred in about five Irish contests this year. Luckily, Notre Dame has had much more talent than the opposition and was able to overcome a glaring coaching faux pas. However, this bird will not fly in the tournament. If the Irish are fortunate enough to get past Kansas down by five near the end of the half, they cannot afford to take an early shot, allowing Danny Manning to dunk at the buzzer and cut the lead to three. The Irish are going to need every break they can get against talent­laden NCAA tournament opposition. 
Fouling the correct player in the right situation often leads to throat constriction upon free-throw attempts. For example, Bil­ly King of Duke probably should have been fouled 10 to 15 times during the last three minutes of this Irish loss at Duke. The nor­mally fearless Duke fans were strapping on their construction helmets at the thought of King striding to the charity stripe. Instead, he was fouled only once during this crucial time and he proceeded to massage the backboard with an incredibly errant missile. Maybe this ws because he was a 50 percent foul shooter. If one were to play the percen-

P.O.BoxQ 

Switek and Montanaro deserve a fair chance 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Katy Kennelly's letter on what a "Mockery" the elections were, I'd like to say that we all have been and will continue to suffer the consequences of a "childish mentality" -that due to the administration. The administration doesn't take us seriously anyway and no one in the past has gained any great headway with them. What makes you think Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink would be any different? It is childish of you, Kennelly, to belittle Mike Switek and Don Montanaro simply because they were not who you supported. Why don't you give them a chance? They were elected because, unlike Domagalski and Dink, this is not a move up the political ladder for them -they had no personal gain per se as an incentive. 
They didn't have to brag about their past ac­complishments to win and they are willing to admit their weaknesses. They've already committed themselves to staying here over break to read and learn as much about the system as possible (and if Domagalski is so concerned about us, why doesn't he stay with them and teach them all he knows?) They have a fresh perspective, so stop your temper tantrum and deal with it. 
Pam Reese Farley Hall 


Domagalski and Dink will have time for fun 
Dear Editor: 
I think I can speak for every ''intelligent" and "talented" student at this prestigious university in thanking Kevin Trautner and Katy Kennelly for showing those of us who voted for Switek and Montanaro, the unenlightened majority, the error of our ways. After Trautner and Kennelly whipped, chastised, and implored me, I, like the more than 2,000 other Switek supporters, dragged my bleeding body and apathetic, childish mentality home to ponder the sickening ramifications of my actions. 

I started by browsing through the six-to seven-page platform of the Domagalski/Bink ticket. Suddenly, it came to me. My error was clear. Why couldn't I see before that Domagalski and Bink were the only ticket with the experience and agressive leadership to whip that rascally ad­ministration into shape and crank out those ever-helpful "We the People" newsletters? 
When I finally reached the last page of the Domagalski/Bink campaign manual, there it was. The huge close-up photo of the saviors of the well-liked University's student body. They tried to smile, but their faces showed tages, it would be much more advantageous to foul King as opposed to letting Johnny Dawkins rise to the occaseion, as he is often prone to doing. Jim Valvano of N.C. State (The Irish's probably second round oppo­nent) employed a very similar technique in defeating the Houston Cuogars in the NCAA finals in 1983. Playing Houston straight up would have been a massacre out fouling them down the stretch proved to be the winning formula. Advice: Foul a poor free throw shooter at the end of the game rather than let an All-American beat you. 
"Those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it."-Anonymous 
Digger has been a wonderful regular season coach. The Irish have had numerous big upsets and have played well throughout the regular season. The Irish come tourna­ment time? Well, the band is playing a dif­ferent tune. Ever heard of Orlando Woolridge? John Paxson? Kelly Tripucka? Bill Laimbeer? (It is not true that Bill Laimbeer jumped from high school to the NBA) Tracy jackson? Bill Hanzlik? These guys all played for Phelps. In fact, some of these guys played on the same teams. Those teams all exited fairly early from the NCAA tournament. Now it is a few years later, the talent is again present, but the coaching re­mains the same. Prediction: If the coaching rises to the level of the talent, AI McGuire will be eating a lot more than Easter dinner come tournament time. 
Bob Fitzgerald is a sophomore in the Col­lege of Business Administration and Paul Kolecki is a sophomore pre-professional studies major. 
the strain of the sacrifice. The hollowed eyes ringed by dark circles, the gaunt faces, and gray pallor attested to the time, health and studies given in the service of the students at Notre Dame. 
Needless to say, I wept, along with all the others who fell for those silly posters, the cheese-macaroni, and those healthy, well­rested faces. In our error, we have made a mockery of a vital, respected, and experienc­ed student government. My god, what have we done? 
There is one bright side in all the suffering we have caused by allowing these people, who obviously miss the incredible impor­tance of student government, to hold office. Domagalski and Bink can return to good health, good grades, and maybe even have a little time left over for some fun. 
Christopher J. LoConte Morrissey Hall 



Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
News Eoitor ............................................. Frank Upo Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .. ......................... Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Systems Manager .........................Mark B. Johnson 
administration of either instit1.ltion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Viewpoint Editor .. .. .. ...... .... .. .. ... .. .. . .. .... Joe Murphy Photography Manager....................... Tripp Baltz
taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 7 




Accent 
Move it! 
Indeed, three (male) graduate
M.LYNCH 
students newly introduced to the 
features writer 
sport agree. The first time they at­tended, one of them mentioned that The aerobics craze has hit Notre he could make it only half-way Dame. through the workout. After that he 
There are literally hundreds of learned how to "cheat" until he students participating in the Non­could survive the complete 60 Varsity Athletics (NVA) aerobic minute class. Now he's hooked. classes, not to mention many who 
John and his roommates are alsodo aerobics on their own or regular attendants. Although Johnthrough their dorm. 
also enjoys swimming and playingWhile some of its popularity is racquetball, having the aerobics atdue to the rapid approach of spring a fixed time disciplines him to exer­break, there are many participants cise with regularity. Although itin the NV A's program who, having was difficult to attend the firstjust been introduced to aerobics, time, he was aware of the healthplan to make it a long-term habit. 
benefits of aerobics and plans to"Not only does it get you in shape continue going. "You have to enjoy so you look good, it also helps you going," he says. "You can't justto feel good about yourself," says focus on a short term goal such asMary Lee, one student participant. 
getting into shape for a trip to 
" 'Aerobics is a generic term ap­Floriday -there must be a deeper plied to any exercise designed to commitment." emphasize endurance," explains 
The music, mostly chosen from Sally Derengoski, assistant director the peppier top 40, is enjoyed byof Non-Varsity Athletics. Its goal is most people. Periodically the in­
to increase cardiovascular strength structors will "take requests" and by sustaining the heart rate at a put new songs into their routines. target zone for an extended period Generally, however, the routines 
of time. As well as aerobics, the do not vary much to give people a NV A classes also incorporate chance to learn the steps comfor­"spot" exercises. These help to tone tably. muscles, increase flexibility, and to 
In comparison to other sports,relax the entire body in general. 
aerobics is one of the better balanc­ed activities, for it treats all dif­
All types of people, both jocks ferent muscles. Each class beginsand non-jocks attend the NVA with a warm-up song and stretches, classes. Some come only once a and is followed by between 20 andweek, and others as many as six 25 minutes of aerobics to get the
times. Traditionally, aerobics has the most painful of exercises. Par­If you are looking for a healthy,
heart pumping. After that, there
been treated as more of a feminine ticipants have had varying levels of enjoyable and social way to get fit, 
are exercises concentrated on work­
sport, but this myth is being cleared experience, too. Some have been in­try attending one of the NVA
ing the abdomen, legs, arms and 
away as more and more guys gather volved in aerobics since high aerobic classes. They are held Mon­
waist. Finally, there is a cool-down 
courage to attend a class. Nancy, school, but many others have day through Saturday in the after­
and class ends. 
who has been attending the NVA begun just this semester. Everyone noon at the ACC. The cost for the aerobics for four years now, One nice part about aerobics is feels at ease, for it is an individual remainder of the semester is $4, remembers when only girls attend­that you can take it as seriously as sport, not a competitive one. with $1 extra for Saturday classes. ed the workouts and is excited at its you wish. Some students attend Asked why students did not If you are not used to it, the 
increasing interest with the op­religiously and many wear tights, simply go to aerobics held in their workout may leave you sore and posite sex. At some classes, she leg warmers, and deluxe aerobic own dorms, most state that they discouraged at first, but one good says, the ratio may even be 50-50. shoes, but the majority simply wear like the regularity the NVA pro­point to this sport is that you can Guys are "realizing it is not as wim­shorts or sweats, a T -shirt and gram offers, as well as the more see your progress daily. Finally, py as they thought," says Mary sneakers. Still, everyone there professional attitude and "better consider this added incentive -for Lee. "After 20 minutes of aerobics wants to be there, and the mass of floors." Also, it is nice stated Lee, each workout lasting one hour, they are dying -they huff and puff people as well as the hard-driving just to get out of the dorm and to between 551-725 calories are burn­
Steve Blaha gets into the aerobic 

too." music encourage you through even meet new people. ed off! 
action. 

'Hooping It Up' scores points 
graduate Tim Neely, does for Notre southeast nook of the Administra­referred to the structure as ''the "Hooping It Up" is the book for
ERIC M. BERGAMO 
Dame basketball what ''Wake Up tion Building, a shell recovered snakepit." Adolph Rupp, the legen­the consummate Notre Dame
features copy editor 
the Echoes" did for Notre Dame from the wreckage of the Maine, is dary coach of the Kentucky basketball fan. Chock full of football. left in memory of Shillington. Wildcats, found playing in the details and statistics, you1l relive Did you know that Knute From those humble beginnings, Fieldhouse extremely frustrating. the great moments of Notre Dame Rockne, at various times during his Neely has done his research in when Notre Dame played mostly On Feb. 2, 1948, Kentucky visited a basketball. You11 hear the chants career at Notre Dame, coached the writing this book, bringing to life YMCA clubs and then went Fieldhouse that was jammed to the of "29 and one!" from the student basketball team? He had a record all the great wins and disheartening through a four-year period when rafters with students who made so body when the Irish upset San of one win and five losses. losses in the history of Notre Dame basketball was not played, Neely much noise that Rupp could not Francisco in 1977. You1l return to basketball. Neely proves that the takes us to the period where Notre communicate with his team. To the moment when Dwight Clay Did you know that the basketball national prominence of Notre Dame gained national prominence make matters worse for Rupp, the launched "the shot heard round the team's all-time record is 1,224 wins, Dame basketball did not begin with under Hall of Fame coach George Notre Dame band was strategically world" to end UCLA's 88-game 602 losses and one tie? Notre Dame's upset win over na-Keogan, known as "The Doctor." placed behind the Kentucky bench. winning streak. Neely has written a Keogan knew what medicine the Those distractions, and the ex­book that is as satisfying as a 20­
Irish needed to make them a cellent play of the Irish on the win season.
Books powerhouse. court, defeated the Wildcats that Hooping It Up It was under Keogan that Notre day, 64-55. It was after that game Dame played their one game that that Rupp swore never to play
$12.95 

Tim Neely ended in a tie. It was Dec. 31, 1935 again at the Fieldhouse. But the and the Irish were playing the Nor­contract he was under had one thwestern Wildcats in Evanston, more game at the Fieldhouse in Ill. The official scorer had the final 1950.
Did you know that George Gipp 
tiona! powerhouse UCLA, 89-82, score Northwestern 20, Notre
played four games as a member of Neely chronicles the short, but
in 1971. No, Notre Dame was ana­Dame 19. But he had forgotten to
the Notre Dame basketball team? no less colorful, history of women's
tional power long before that count a foul shot made by Ray
Did you know that in 1927, basketball at Notre Dame. The
golden moment. to
Notre Dame was considered to be Meyer (who went on coach most memorable event Neely tells 
DePaul for over 40 years) near the

the best in the nation and was in Neely goes back to where it all of took place in the first year that 
end of the game. By the time the

fact awarded the mythical national began, the old Carroll Hall gym­the women enjoyed varsity status. 
mistake was discovered, both teams 

Although the program just
championship by the Helms Foun­nasium where the first Notre Dame was 
had showered and dressed and the

dation? starting out, the team was the brunt 
basketball team won 26-11 over the game officially went into the books a less complimentary
of than

These Notre Dame basketball Fort Wayne YMCA in early 1897. 
as a tie. 

editorial by sports editor Fredfacts and more can be found in a The captain of that team was John 
If you think the student section 

Herbst of The Observer. Carol Lal­new book, "Hooping It Up: The Shillington, who would later be 
of the ACC is rowdy during games 

ly wrote a letter to Herbst challeng­Complete History of Notre Dame killed when the battleship Maine 
today, just read of the days in the

Basketball." This extremely detail­exploded on Feb. 15, 1898. The ing him to a game of one-on-one,
old Fieldhou~ e. Opposing coaches 

and spotting him six points. 
ed book, written by Notre Dame monument that is secluded in the 








Classifieds 
The Ohst'rl't!Y ;'\;otrt: D.tmc: otfh.t·. lot Jll"ll on lht· tlurd ll.,or uf l..tl orlunc: ~[U<..knl ( :t•ntt•r. dCl"t•pt!'lo <..la!'\~ifi~·d .lthTftl,lll~ lronll) .1 Ill lllllll I pIll. \1onda~ throu~h l"rid..ty Thi.• (Jhst~rt'i.'r ~aint .\1..tn ·, uffil"l'. lnt..ttt·d on tht· ttun..l floor of lla!(!(ar Collt'!(l' ( t'ntt·r. ant·pt' da"ilinl' tr..m I! ~~~ p m lllllol ~ p m. \lon· d..t\· 1hou~h 1--nda' Dt·Jc.tlmt: tor nc.""xt d.1' tl.t'''th·d, " .t. p m .\II d..t,,lfit·d!oo mu't ht· prt·pJ.Id. t'llht-r 111 pt·r"'n c1r In m.ul < h..trgt· '' I tit c·nt' J)l'r lh t: l h..trJt 
tt'f!'lo t·r <..Ia\ 

LOST, PRESUMABLY STOLEN: My TWO RIDERS NEEDED, LEAVING DISCOVER CARRY BERRY SUNSHINE THURSDAY NIGHT CLUB ON CORBY 
wallet from the Rock on Sunday after­

NOTICES 
FRIDAY MORNING, TO PENSACOLA DISCOVER HAPPY B-DAYI LOVE YOUR ROOMIE noon, I'd really like all my IDs back 
AREA. OR, RIDERS NEEDED TO DISCOVER before break, hope you spent the $2 

SHARE CAR EXPENSES TO PEN­Has been moved to Sat. for a ST.
NSHP Is looking for tutors to helpwell. Call Greg at 232-8875 or give it SACOLA, LEAVING FRIDAY MORN­PADDIES DAY BASH starting at 10:30

South Bend school kids with classLONG ISLAND CLUB BUS to loet & found. 

ING. KEENAN HALL PRESIDENT MAR-, In the mornlhg. 
work. This center runs on Tues/Thurs.

LEAVING MARCH 21 
CALL MARY (4172) OR SHARON CANTUONO -MOSIER 
from 4:15-5:45. If Interested callRETURNING APRIL 1 (3390). 

Susan (3415), Dan (1836), or Tom

RD. TRIP$770NEWAY$50 LOST: black TIMEX digital watch. Need ride to Cots. OH for Sp Break.
(1656).

SIGN UPS IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY 4-6 Please call Bll11812 ' Kent 272-2064
LIFE BEGINS: PM ON FRI. MARCH 14 
Need 2 riders to Daytona or Orlando, MAY9AT 5:00P.M. Fla. Leave 20 Mar, return 2 Apr. Call HAPPY BIRTHDAY, SCOTI! 
LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN M.H.B.T.D. --MJ
Wo.rdprocesslng-Typing 4083. 
(alias Scooter, Cooterhead­

272-8827 BRACELET!!II LOST BETWEEN (OR D.C. SPRING BREAK BUS Rd. trip Mambobrain, Vern) IN) B.P. AND NORTH DINING HALL and ONE WAY space still avail. Call Thanks for everything!! 
VOCALIST NEEDED by i}~ waitingTyping available Love the ICTHUSIANS PLEASE TELL ME YOU'VE FOUND RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL NEW Kevin at 1062. 
to perform. Please call Keviif:fill\51 or 287-4082 IT!! CALL STEPHANIE AT 1327. 
YORK FOR BREAK. Syracuse or Matt(2303).
THANKS! ­Rochester preferred. Can leave any On this day especially I thank Him tor 

time Thursday afternoon or Friday TO ALL WHO MADE -RACE'S 21st
TYPING you! Have a FANTASTIC 21st, CALL CHRIS SCOTI!!!!
morning. Will share all expenses. Call WHAT IT WAS FOUND: 3110 In Concepts of Mod. 

MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT
Eric at 1989. THANK YOU!

234-B997 Love, your friendly (and frequent) PREPARATION MATERIALS Willing
Sci. class: pair of tan suede gloves. 
CCE visitor 

to sell my KAPLAN Review Materials EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL claim. 
Too small for me! Call Rob at 1201 to from last year for S50 or best offer.
NEED RIDE TO NO. NJ 3121 JANET RACE THOMA 
x3731MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 

FOR OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER 284-4346 HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DAVID! II FUN & EXPERIENCE· RACE!! 
I LOVE YOU, I LOVE YOU, I LOVE THE PITISBURGH CLUB-SPRING
PLEASE RETURN MY UNIVOXATIN: STUDENTS 
YOU, I LOVE YOU, I LOVE YOU, I BREAK BUS

(WALKMAN) TO 718 ST. LOUIS ANDDolores Francis typing service HELP NEED RIDE TO MINNEAPOLIS ,OSTON BOUND FOR SPRING LOVE YOU, I LOVE YOU!!!!!! Love, Slgnups: 6-7 pm Thur. Mar. 13phone number change ALL IS FORGIVEN FOR BREAK CALL LEEANN 284-5520 BREAK Lynsey at Little Theatre LaFortune 277-8131 NEED A RIDE? 
Leaves: 4 pm Frl Mar 21 CCE & HolyCAPTAIN CRACKER JACK turns 20 OR GOING THRU ALBANY,
Students to sell Photo Club books. Cross TYPING -Fast, High-Quality. Call All Kodak products used for process­Returns: 1 pm Tues Apr 1 Gryhnd
today 

SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUFFALOGive that boy a Big Jim orange! 
OR ERIE? PLEASE JOIN TWO IN­TERESTING DOMERS ON THEIR You've proven that the dining hall !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! WAY TO Harvard. We'll leave Fri is good for something-Thanks for all 
287-9257 Ing. Excellent Income. Call 654-3250. Mr. Efficient, Term. 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING AN
Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauderdale Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for OFFICER FOR NEXT YEAR, PLEASE 
LOST --LOST --LOST --LOST March 21. PLEASE call3861 soon. the good times!!

J.D. LOST THURSDAY NIGHT (LATE) tor break. Call Mary 1327 
From the crazy dining hall cleaner 

Spring Break. Will share usual. Call ATIEND
ALONG WITH DRIVERS LICENSE

Lorri at 284-5315 Looking for a tutor In . THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't QUESTIONS: call A.J. x1844 
AND A DETEX. IF FOUND, PLEASE 

CONTACT FRAN AT 2244. Calc 117 and/or Organic Chern. have dona It without your_ help. TRH for truth 
REWARD--REWARD--REWARD--this summer. 

BUFFALO BUS SIGNUPS WED. 3112HRTfor heart If interested, please call: 283-2949 6-7 PM & THUR.3113 6-7:30PM INWell, that team never got off the
Will pay. 0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr 
LAFORTUNE.
ground-we couldn't even agree on a name! But here's hoping that opur great In virtue and ,rich In miracles,

LOST/FOUND I 
near kinsman of Jesus Christ. OK. WHOEVER STOLE MY GREY Fallhlullntercessor of all who Invoke 
Someone stole my baby from a mon­team lives up to Its potential! 
day night party at 814 corby The only MELISSA MOODY OVERCOAT FROM 801 ST. LOUIS ST. your special patronage In time of HAPPY 20TH, SLEEPY! 

po$$e$$1on I have that i$ worth Would you like ON 2/14 I WANT IT BACK; SPRING need. To you I have recourse and

anything, an olympus om-10. I'm real­TOAST or BISCUITSISN'T HERE YET AND I'M COLD! A FOR RENT from the depth of my heart, I humbly 

ly gonna miss II so I'm willing to give with your 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, HUCKSTER!!

REWARD IS OFFERED. CALL BRIAN beg to whom god has given such
cash lor Its return. It was last sean on MOIST PILSNER JAMS? 

Love, Brie

AT2209. great power to come to my
a chair near the stereo. II you have It FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO Meis Mels Mels 

............. !.. assistance. Help me In my present
and you have any sensa of decency FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 287-6389. 

urgent petition. In return I promise to LOST:•Palr of blue leather gloves. If make your name known and cause 
please call Mollie Merchant at 4039 
ROUNDTRIP TRANSPORTATION TO ODN COFFEEHOUSE

DAYTONA OVER SPRING BREAK. on Fri. Feb. 14, or around then, Fathers, Three Hall Marys, and Three $75 CALL TRAVEL 2000 232-9499.
you remember finding a pair of gloves you to be Involved. Say: Three Our 
LOST: Ladles watch, blue braided Semi-furnished house In good(probably In CompiMath 300, N.S.H. band, near Sacrad heart Church. neighborhood 255-36841277-3804 Glorlas lor nine consecutive days. 123, O'Shag 105A or Eng. Aud) please Great sentimental value-reward. 277· Publication must be promised. St. Found: pearl bracelet on Eddy St.
CARRIE (Don't You Dare Put My Lastcall Frank x1578. Jude pray for us and all who Involve

8353 or 239-7617. Saturday night. Call to claim 284-4138 
your aid, Amen. This novena has Name In The Observer) LYNCH. Have never been kn11wn to fall. I have had 
a Great 20th Birthday! 

FOR SALE: 1 WAY AIRLINE TICKET
FOR SALE

LOST: My big Sears (wow!) REWARD ••. $40.00 my request granted. 
FROM CHICAGO TO PITISBURGHradio/cassette player In Riley art LOST Black tuxedo jacket with tails OR LATROBE LEAVING 3-21 (SPR­CARRIE LYNCH-PRIESTS ON SPR­building. I could have sworn I put It In and red bow tie. Both In white plastic ING BREAK(. CALL LIZ f,T 284-5209. 
my locker, but If you found It john mcCABE, Seeing you makes my ING BREAK SAY "HAPPY B-DAY TO
bag lost 318 at OC Party on E. Navarre elsewhere, please call Paula x2886 St. Need desperately! Call 3810, 1978 SUZUKI GS550 CAFE STYLE day! 
THE GIRL WITH THE HELACIOUS and tell me where I can find II or put It LO Ml, EXCEL COND. 
EYES"

Chuck. 
back In locker 307!!! CALL 288-4850 ST. PAT'S PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the HAVE CAR, NEED RIDERS TO 
UNITED WAY ! $.50 GREEN DRAFT FLA. I III Call Marilyn or kathy at 3885. IT'S CARRIE LYNCH'S 20th B-DAY -BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKSLOST: A brown Donnegal Tweed hat.
LOST: womens sliver ring of enor­REALLY? $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS
II was probably left In O'Shag two 

mous sentimental value; possllby KAREN CAN TAKE PUPPY PHYSICS­IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON
weeks ago. Please, this hat has sen­
lost a lobrary. Call Kathy 3568. MARK REALLY? SALE NOW 
PERSONALS

timental value and is irreplaceable. 
YOU KNEW I WAS GOING TO WRITE
REWARD No questions asked. Call ·············· 
SOMETHING SO DON'T ACT SUR­Thank You St. Jude for all your help!
SMC FRENCH CLUB WILL BE SPON­LOST: Beige sports jacket at Please continue to help me! 
3833 or return to Lost and Found Of­
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages PRISED. IT COMES NATURALLY TO 
SORING A CREPERIE ON THURS. Laughlin Auditorium at S.M.C. 
flee. 
of the Campus Telephone Directory. BLONDES IN BLACK HOSE TO HAVE 
MARCH 13 FROM 5-8 PM AT THE downstairs first week of Feb. Dear Use them today! A GOOD TIME ON A SATURDAY CLUBHOUSE. THERE WILL BE A Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINENIGHT, ESPECIALLY TO CANDLE
lady who called me before, please CHARGE OF $.50 ADMISSION. BON at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm­call me again. Great sentimental LIGHT. THANKS FOR ALL THREE APETITE 12am Monday-Thursdday; 5pm-2am
TICKETS 
2 sun-lovers DESPERATELY need ROSES.

value. Thank you for your patience. 
Friday; 3pm-1 am Saturday; 4pm­The tag reads "G. Cannon 40169" ride to Florida for break! Will share AND OF COURSE THANK YOU FOR 10pm Sunday. Please call at 283-3244 
one roundtrip airline, South Bend to expenses. Call 283-4684 ASAP! THE SAFETY PIN ... 
HAPPY 20th B-DAY TO CARRY LYN­
Tampa, Florida. Leave March 23 CH. LUV, KATE -N-ANNI E. P.S. YOUR THANK YOU ST. JUDE!
return March 31. $238 272-4711 or 284­

At the B.P. SYR (2/15) I picked up the LAST NAME'S IN THE OBSERVER!
4511. DplusG DplusG DplusG DplusG Applications lor manager positions HAHAwrong Sport Coat. Hopefully that per­
NOTRE DAME son also has picked up mine, II was a May II forever be ... of 
ARE YOU READY FOR ST. tweed Hunting Horn -similar to the 
The Cellar 

PATRICK'S DAY? THE ST. PATRICK'S one that I picked up.' If you are look­SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYR HOPPY BIRDY DAY WEEKEND CELEBRATION IS
Wristwatch Lost L.L. Bean/Hamilton are available now al the record sotre 
brand. Black leather wristband. In the LaFortune basement. The
ing for your coal or have mine please MARY PAT BANNON 
COMING MARCH 14-17. GO IRISH!!!! call Kevin at 283-2113. FRIDAY MARCH 14th ······························ 
Please call Jamie at 4116lf found. forms are due In the Student Govern­
ment ollfces by 5:00 this Thursday. 
HAGGAR PARLOR AND 

OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR.
WE LOVE YOU MARY PAT HELP! MEN'S GOLD CHAIN MISS­9pm-1am (BUT NOT REALLY) 
CHAMELEON ROOM 

TRACK & FIELD Unlv. of Notre LJame CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. N., 1WANTED Track & Field Team T-Shlrts and Grey BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HB-D! Sweat Tops for Sale. A very LIMITED ING. TIX $8-$10 AT DOOR 
TAKEN FROM 205 CARROLL AVAILABLE IN 0-C DAY LOUNGE ································ 
GOVERNMENT JOBS Supply. Perfect for Spring Break. MISSING -TWO PAPERS FROM
NIGHT OF MAR. 1 PARTY THIS WEEK! NEED A RIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C. 
-$59,230/yr. Now hiring, Call Prices:$8 for T-Shlrts and $15 for SMC DEPT, FOR
PERSONALLY VALUABLE $16,040 MARCH 277 Join two domers on their ENGLISH NEED 
1-805-887-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current Sweat Tops. Call Tom for Information 
NO QUESTIONS ASKED way back· from SPRING BREAK. GRADUATION! PLEASE RETURN TO $$REWARD$$ 4051 PLEASE CALL 3881.
federal list. SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYR! BE THERE! 277-7006 or 239-7634. 136 LEMANS ASAP!! 

March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT 
dp
BIRTH DEFECTS 

BUt£-lOUR SIIW 
EPAREFOR: 

LSAT 
• 
TEST.r' TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REiNFORCEMENT TeST 

• 
HOMESTUOY PACKET 


1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 
A • 
Information and materials for the May 1986 Commencement Exercises will be available in the Registrar's Office (215 Administration Building) from 8:30a.m. to 4:00p.m., March 12 through March 21. At that time you will be asked to proofread the way your name and hometown will appear in the commencement program and the way your name will appear on your diploma. You will also be asked to complete a survey of the 1986 graduating class. (This should take about 10 minutes). 
Uyou intend to participate in the Commencement ceremony, you will be asked to complete a Commencement Ticket Request form. A maximun of (4) guest tickets will be made available to each graduate, 2 tickets (together) in the Lower Arena and 2 tickets (together) in the Upper Arena OR 4 tickets (together) in the Upper Arena. There is no guarantee that ticket requests received after March 21 will be honored. 
Ten (10) Commencement Announcements will also be available for you to pick 
up-beginning March.12. ~· annouocemen~ ~be av~ble after March 21 at 
acoetoflOc:eldlach•.. ::·· ···.. :;. -<:_·:·:·· ~'-.. ·~.'''··; · -· • 
., .: '


~· . ... 

.:,_ .~ '~ . . .:!·/ ' .,. >. .... 
. . ~ 
------·**~~..l,i;,;;~i,·:'.-__:;...;'··..~-.;,~:....::..-. .: ..:..'_'·_·_.--_·..;....__.;.·_-._.~;..·.-~:;.:.~;o;;;.;,!:..::~;;,:;t_~:_;_.;,.. ~-~~_}..:~..;.:._·}...;:..;,~:_:_..;.:._··~...;.;~-·J_-__·-~~·i.;.;:-:""·r"".:~·--:_.;~_;;:,_;:::_:;_:~...-.~"';,"'~,_--·;_·~::.~.l!.::-'-_i_:..,;~~.:'"_~••_~~~--"--.:....!.--··;_,·~~=-t":·.:.;._,.•:_,::.:./_·-'-'·-_:.~.:..!~_:'-=-.....:__~:~--=--:_·;:.._·.<_>__..:·.,""..'--·-:.·_.__·_ ...."',.~-f_:~t__~:-=-?'-".'~:~· ;"·:/~:: ~·;/:.::.:·:·-, .
... 


The Observer Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 9 

Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will hold an 
organizational meeting tonight at 7 in the Breen-Phillips basement. All players should attend. For more information call Beth Haverkamp at 283-1458. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will hold practices to­day and Thursday from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588. In addition, the women's club will hold practice tomorrow at 4 at Rolfs. Any women unable to attend should call Nancy O'Brien at 283-2894. ­
The Observer 
An interhall baseball tournament is being organized by NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by today. Rosters must include at least 14 players and should be turned in with a $15 entry fee. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
Twelve-inch softball tourneys for men, women, and graduate departments are being organized by NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by today. Rosters must include between 12 and 16 players. In the men's and women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. In the graduate division, teams must be composed by department. For more information, call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
The Competition Athletic Footwear Specialists 
6301-E University Commons Corner of SR23 and Hickory Just North of the Fall Road 
272-5488 
$5offany pair of Reebok shoes 
Now through St. Pat's Day 

SUMMER JOBS 
EARN $3000 -$4500 THIS SUMMER e EJrte1101 House Poonhng • 14 Week Monomum Season e Monogemenl Qpporlunoloes on 1sl Yeoo 
• 40 Hours Per Week ~ • 
• Greol Coree• E•pe11ence [~@l!.l!.rn:@rn: 
• Slortong s~ Per Hour woge ~illcU?TI' 
Jobs. kl ~TEAM

HURRYI 
e Fill QuiC y HOUSE PAINTERS 
Monneopolos Sl Poul 
(6U) US·I210 
cnocooo wesl Suburb• Cleveland Suburb• 
(JU) Ml-l:lot (216) ll1-otS7 
The Nazz Competition is coming ••• 
A chance for student bands and musicians to compete for fame and recognition. 
On Friday, April 4th you wtU compete for: 
*CASH PRIZES!
*A postlon in the Saturday showcase 
performance (April 5th) *A chance to play with 
MAX WEINBERG, BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN'S DRUMMER! 
Registration is at the front desk of the Student Government Offices from March 11 to March 16. 
QUESTIONS? Call Liz 283-2985 
.. 
Men's and women's soccer tourneys will hold a practice today at 4 p.m. on St. Joseph's Lake for all those interested in sailing in the Freshman Icebreaker this weekend. Only eligible freshman sailors may race. For more information call Tony Fink at 283-1082. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC golf team will practice today at 3 
p.m. outdoors, if weather permits. In case of inclement weather, videotaping will be held in the ACC as regularly scheduled. For more information call Laura Gleason at 283-3351. -The Observer 
The ND men's varsity crew team will hold a practice today at 5:30 p.m. at the ACC. There also will be a man­datory meeting Thursday at 7 in Room 123 of the nieuwland Science Building following the general team meeting. For more in­formation call Chris Nye at 236-4400. -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts sweats and shirts must be picked up by fighters by Friday at Holy Cross Hall, Room 319. Anything not picked up by this deadline will be sold. Donations for coaches' gifts also should be sent to Kevin O'Shea at the above address by the deadline. For more information call Ed Kelly at 234-7083. ­
The Observer 

NOTICE: PROFESSIONAL FOOTBALL CHEERLEADING AUDITIONS 
Info. for all teams send name, address and $9.95 check or money order to: 
BRANDE P.0. BOX 4035 BLOOMINGTON. IL 61702 

Bruce Springsteen's Drummer 
MAX WEINBERG 
will soon be at Notre Dame. 
Max will first show a documentary ./11m ofthe Born In the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And finally, Max Weinberg wil!Jam with the finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
MAX is coming Aprill2. 

Sponsored by the Student Activities Board 
.. 



Saint Mary's 
•

sWimmers are honored 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
Four Saint Mary's swimmers were named academic all­Americans last weekend at the NAIA Nationals held at Whitworth College in Spokane, Wash. 
Seniors Anne Cushing and Joyce Murtagh and ju11iors Mary Fisher and Patty Juckniess received the honor, which recognizes both academic and athletic achievement. 
The four were among nine Saint Mary's swimmers who attended the three-day competition, in which 45 schools participated. 
According to Coach Nancy Kuz­mitz, the meet was quite com­petitive, but was successful for the team, nonetheless. 
"I was pleased with out perfor­mance," she said. "All the swim­mers did their best, and we moved up in every event we were seeded. We were up against some pretty strong competition." 
Other achievements for the team at the meet included the perfor­mances by the 200 and 400-yard freestyle relay teams, both of which swam their best times of the season. 
The team of Fisher, Juckniess, Murtagh and Meghan Rafferty swam the 200-yard freestyle relay with a time of I :48.85, while the team of Cushing, Juckniess, Mur­tagh and Rafferty finished the 400­yard freestyle relay in 4:01.14. 
"We were strong in all the relay events," Kuzmitz said. ''Our swim­mers really did well in these events, and they had to contend with some very still competition." 
Another highlight for the team was Rafferty's performance in the 100-yard backstroke event. The sophomore competed the race with a time of I :06.19, her best effort of the season. 
Cushing, the team captain, was pleased with the team results at the meet. 
"It was a successful meet for us," she said. "It gave us the opportuni­ty to compete against some very talented teams and some strong competition." 


Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
good weekend for the Irish." It may 
not have been too successful, but 
there may be a light at the end of 
the tunnel for the Irish this coming 
weekend. 
This Friday and Saturday brings 
the Notre Dame indoor track 
season to an end, as members of 
the Irish squad will finish up at the 
NCAA Championships in 
Oklahoma City, Okla. Running for 
the Irish will be the two-mile relay 
team which consists of the four 
finish~rs from Princeton: Tyler, 
McNelis, Nobles and VanWie. 
They will compete in hopes-of be­
ing one of the top collegiate relay 
teams in the country. 
"After this weekend, hopefully 
we will come home all-Americans," 
said McNelis. For the Irish, time 
trials will be Friday afternoon, with 
the finals Saturday night. Then 
they move on to their outdoor track 
season, which ends in June. 

Sorry 
Because of continuing pro­blems with our typesetter, we are unable to provide you with Sports Wednesday once again this week. It will return once the problems have been solved. 

I 
I
. 

.lj
.L.I~ .·• 

J 
The Observer Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 10 

ND lacrosse team has high hopes, 
Keys named MVP 

Special to Tbe Observer 

prepares with scrimmage Saturday 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
Experience, depth, enthusiasm and a knowledgeable, veteran head coach are four pretty important elements to any good team. Rich O'Leary knows his 1986 Notre Dame lacrosse team has that and a lot more this year. 
The Irish scrimmage agasint Ashland College this Saturday at Cartier Field, and O'Leary, in his sixth year as head coach, is anxious to see his team in action. If practice is any indication, he won't be disap­pointed. 
"We've worked harder than ever in the off-season this year," said Notre Dame's only head lacrosse coach. "Our team's enthusiasm reaches its peak each practice. In the past, we've often been passive. But with this team's new attitude, we will be more aggressive and more willing to create opportunities rather than waiting for them to be created." 
The Irish are deep with quality players at each position this year and O'Leary is as happy with the attitude of the players as he is with their depth and abilities. 
"It's a very unselfish team this year," said O'Leary, who handled the lacrosse club coaching chores for 10 years prior to Notre Dame's becoming Division I. "Everyone will take turns picking up the slack. We'll be much more balanced this year than we have been in the past two or three. There is no one player that an opponent will be able to key on and shut down, and con­sequently shut down the team." 
Although the Irish lose two key players, Justin Shay and all-time Irish scoring leader Bob Trocchi, they certainly figure to score a lot this year. Returning is the second­leading scorer in Notre Dame history, senior Joe Franklin, who has had 88 goals and 29 assists in his prolific career, including 40 
goals and ll assists last year. He will play at one tack (attack) posi­tion and another will probably be filled by senior co-captain Tom Grote. 
Grote will be moving to tack from midfield this year, where last year he had four goals and eight assists. The battle for the third position appears to be between junior Jim Shields, sophomore Frank O'Brien (who was hurt play­ing hockey but looks to challenge soon), and freshman john Olmstead. 
O'Leary sees the bulk of his depth at the midfield position, where senior Tim Corrigan leads seven returning lettermen back for another year. Corrigan had seven goals and six assists on his way to. selectino as a member of the Great Lakes All-Conference team. 
Sophomore John McNicholas (II goals, five assists last year) and senior Mark Steranka (eight goals) appear sure to play integral roles at midfield this year. Two-year starter Tony Rettino is the team's face-off specialist, winning 53 percent of his face-offs last year. 
Notre Dame women's basketball player Trena Keys has been honored as the North Star Conference's player of the year for the second season in a row. 
Keys, however, wasn't the only member of the Irish to be honored. 
Notre Dame head coach Mary DiStanislao, who coached the team to the NSC title with a 13-1 conference record, was named the NSC's coach of the year. 
Keys, a 6-1 senior forward, broke the Notre Dame career scoring record as she led her squad to a 21-7 overall record and a berth in the women's NIT. 
Joining Keys on the first all-star team is sophomore teammate Sandy Botham, a 6-2 center. Other members included DePaul's Sally Anderson, Detroit's Cassandra Pack and Daphne Smith and Dayton's Michele Kruty. 
Notre Dame's 5-6 guard Mary Gavin was selected to the con­ference's second team. The sophomore was also honored as the player of the week in the NSC for the final week of the season. 
Gavin scored 14 points and dished out five assists, in addition to four steals and five rebounds against Xavier. In the team's final regular-season game, a 66-62 win over Dayton, she scored a career-high l7 points, including a perfect seven-of-seven from the field. Gavin added eight assists in the contest, along with three steals and four rebounds. 

Harvard this summer. 
June 23-August 15, 1986 
H
arvard University Summer School, Americas oldest summer session. offers open enrollment in nearly 250 day and evening courses, in more than 40 academic fields and prP-profess10nal pro­grams. The diverse curriculum includes courses appropriate for fulfilling undergraduate and graduate degree requirements, as well as programs designed for personal and professional development. The international student body has access to Harvard's outstanding librw ies, museums, athletic facilities, and cultural activities, with the additional benefits of the Cambridge and nearby Boston communities. Housing for students is available in Harvard's historic residences. 
Offerings include pre-medical and pre-law courses, undergraduate and graduate instruction in forei!(n languages, hus·iness. computer science, visual and environmental studies, anthropology, fine arts, education, psychology, the sciences and more. We feature a college­level program for secondary school juniors and seniors. plus special programs in Health Professions (for minority students), Dance, Drama, Film Studies, Writing, and English as a Second language. 
Further information is available by returning the coupon below or by calling: (617) 495-2494 (24-hour catalogue request line), or (617) 
495-2921. H d U . "t ' 
arvar . ntverst y , ----------Summer School--W-­
Please send a Harvard Summer School catalogue and application for: 
0 Arts and Spences 0 Secondary Schooll'rogram 0 Drama 
0 Engh•h •• a Second Langu•ge n Writing 0 Dance 
0 Health f'rolrs>~ons Progr•m 
Name 
Street 
City State Zip 
Harvard Summer School 20 Garden Street, Dept. 366 Cambridge, MA 02138 U.S.A. 


Adding depth at midfield will be juniors Kevin Cullinan and Dave O'Neill, as well as sophomres John Burtis an'd Tom Lanahan, who O'Leary thought made great strides from his freshman year. Freshman Dave Kidder, an all-American in high school last year, is also ex­pected to contribute. 
On defense, senior co-captain Mike Rice anchors a solid unit. Rice is a winner of three monograms and was second team all-conference last year. Joining him will be junior Jim Fallon, the only defenseman to score last year, and junior Wally Stack. 
Junior Dick Milone started as a freshman, but broke his leg last year, sitting out the entire cam­paign. He and talented freshmen: Warren Spencer, Kevin O'Connor, Doug Spencer, and Brendan Cahill. These four could serve spot duty throughout the year. 
Matt McQuillan appears to be the leading candidate in goal. The former high school all-American had 118 saves last year and is already fourth on Notre Dame's all­time save list as a sophomore. Sophomore Tom Fredericks should back up McQuillan. 
After their 1 :30 p.m. scrimmage Saturday with Ashland, the Irish will travel to Virginia during spring break for a tough four-game road trip. O'leary is heading into the season confident, but certainly not without some doubts. 
"We know what our potential 
weaknesses could be," said O'Leary, "but with hard work and dedication, I feel we should be a pretty solid team." 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Copy Chief Circulation Manager 
Submit personal statement and resume to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Monday, March 17 3rd Floor LaFortune 

Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne Tues -Sun, noon -6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
UMd a -•of prlat boob !"-•alit. •old, •••n:lled 

r--~o:k7..;,:r:;;;;;.;;;;-·l 
t Watch for South Bend Survival Cups! t 
t  South Bend Blues?  t  
t t t t  t t t t  

L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J 
SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare l1 Midway Airport One WayS2000Round TripS3000 








']I['4(Jt~~~--------------------------------------------------VV•e•d•n•es•d•a.y,_M
__a.rc•h•1•2•'•19•8•6·--p.a.ge...ll 

Bloom County 
!lNO Ntm/RAU.Y YOIJP l-IKE YOtJr< CUENr FReEfl WI1HM 8f11L. 8€CAV5t 5H£ ISN'f llC7lii!U.Y 
AlC€ MVI(ffi(€R . ./' 
ACROSS 1 Tonic garnish 5 Erie or Panama 
10 Phase 14 Seed covering 15 Solitary 16 Sandwich type 17 Converse 
rapidly 20 Water shocker 21 Principal 22 Washer cycle 23 What the 4th 
little pig had 24 Type of jack 26 With utmost 
rapidity 30 Biblical 
preposition 31 Repair 32 Sunday bench 35 Service 
winners 36 Sea water 38 MaHome 39 Mr. Deluise 40 Distress 
wat.. ffNt, MR. PALLAS/ SH£'5 l?eUASCPINfO YOIJR 
CARe IJNT'Il 7Hf!-fflA/.. . 
I 
Cl1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved
41 Mangle 
42 Speedily 46 Votes nay 49 Glveoll 9 Bandleader 50 Harsh sound Brown 51 Waste 10 Cry shrilly 
allowance 11 Very small 52 Noted Isle 12 Wlpeclean 55 With utmost 13 Jabbed 
rapidity 18 Frenzied 59 Comic strip 19 Tendency 
cries 23 Sgts. 60 Proprietor 24 Author Wister 61 Sea eagle 25 Muse number 62 Mlldoath 26 College area 63 Rosary 27 Extraordinary 
components to Bums 64 Dandelion 28 Newsbl\ for one 29 -acids 32 Persian fairy DOWN 33 Seth'sson 1 Delayed 34 Desire 
3/12/86 Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
3/12186 

2 Dles-38 Curse 45 Gam or Moreno 53 "Rule Brlten· 3 John Stuart -37 Disencumbers 46 Gave the once-nla"composer 4 BPOE member 38 Cockney's over 54 Requirement 5 Beach shelter elevator 1.7 Nosyone 56 Play -with 8 Supporters 40 Ravioli 46 Genuine 57 Have oblige· 7 Part of speech 42 "-Abe" 51 Sandwich tiona 
8 Chemical 43 Skilled filling 56 " ... but­suffix 44 Arabian chlafs 52 Deepmud are chosen" 
Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
@ 1986 Universal Press Synd•cale 


Campus 

*12:15 p.m. -Meeting, Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality, theme: Spiritual Roots for Spring, Stapleton Lounge *2:30p.m. -Tax Assistance program, Center for Social Concerns Coffee House 
• 
*3:20 p.m. -Workshop, Prof. palal Santoso, Notre Dame, Labor/Public Policy, Room 131 Decio, Sponsored by the Economics Dept. *3:30 p.m. -Seminar, Dr. Robert Nelson, Notre Dame, speaking on aerodynamics, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by the Aero/Mechanical Engineering Dept. 
*4 p.m. -Lecture, "Fellini's 'La Strada' and 
Film History," Prof. Peter Bondanella, In­
diana University, Room 124 Center for Social 
Concerns, Sponsored by the Dept. of Modern 
& Classical Languages 

*4 p.m. -Colloquium, "Superconducting 
Monopole Detectors," Dr. Stu Berman, IBM, 
Room 118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by the 
Physics Dept. 

•4 
p.m. -Lecture, "Thomas Jefferson as Town Planner, or The Intellectual vs. the Ci­ty," Prof. John Reps, Cornell University, Room 202 Architecture Building, Sponsored by the School of Architecture 

•4 
p.m. -Seminar, "Stochastic Analysis of Advective Transport in Three-Dimensional Heterogeneous Porous Media,"\Dr. Allen Shapiro, Research Hydrologist, U.S. Dept. of the Interior, Room 303 Cushing, Sponsored by the Civil Engineerihg Dept. *4:30 p.m. -AFROTC DRILL COMPETI­TION, Stepan Center *4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Higher Cluster Com­pounds of Ruthenium and Osmium," Prof. Sir Jack Lewis, Room 123 Nieuwland, Sponsored by the Chemistry Dept. 


Clowns of the animal world 
*6:15 p.m. -Meeting, Circle K, Center for Social Concerns 
•7 
p.m. -Film and Discussion, "The Hitman ­Discussion on the Death Penalty," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Amnesty In­ternational 

•7 
p.m. -Movie, "Willy and Myriam," O'Shaughnessy Loft, Sponsored by the Com­munication and Theatre Dept. and the Kellogg Institute 

•7 
p.m. -Movie, "Footlight Parade," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by the Wednesday Night Film Series *7, 9 & II p.m. -Movie, "Life of Brian," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, $1 

•7 
p.m. -Personal Reflections on prayer and action, Prof. Katherine Tillman, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by University Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns *8 p.m. -Movie and Panel Discussion, "Choices," Alcohol Awareness Week, Room 118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by Student Government and the Around the Corner Club *8 p.m. -Lecture, "It's a Man's World -The Question is 'Why?' " Sister Joan Chittister, CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by the Quiet Revolution: A View of Changing Values and Lifestyles *8 p.m. -Coffeehouse, John Kennedy singing Irish Folksongs, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by the Overseas Development Net­work *8:15 p.m. -Concert, Notre Dame Glee Club Spring Concert, Washington hall, Sponsored by the Music Dept. 



Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Fettucini with Sauce Roast Breast of Turkey Linguine with Spring Vegetables 
Saint Mary's Hungarian Noodle Bake Baked Breaded Fish Bean Chimichanga Pizza 

SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD American Dreamer Friday, March 14th, Saturday, March 15th ~ llQ § (ID 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium  SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD $1.00 Wednesday, March 12th, Thursday, March 13th 7:00. 9:00. 11:00 p.m. Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium  

Wednesday, March 12, 1986-page 12

S~orts 
Four qualify for finals in Weekend track meet 
By KENT R. WELDON The problems of the Irish pro­Sports Writer bably stemmed from their training over the week. In track, it is key to It was a tough weekend for the train for two weeks on one event, Notre Dame track team as it travel­and in two weeks the two-mile relay ed to Princeton, N.J. for the team has a chance to compete in the IC4As. Fifteen men made the trip NCAA Championships. As a 
and the Irish failed to have a top result, the relay team was forced to finisher. look past Princeton to the NCAA ·Championships. 
In spite of having a sprint medley "We were hoping to do better group that didn't perform up to par than we did, but our training has and a pole vaulter that failed to been geared to our race at the make the height, four of the Irish NCAA Championships, and not did run their way into the finals in for us to peak this past weekend," their events. said McNelis, a member of the 
In the mile race, Jim Tyler made relay team. it to the finals and moved up to a The team members noted an ex­fifth place finish after another run­cellent individual performance by a ner was disqualified. A second Notre Dame freshman, Dave War­team member, Jeff Van Wie, also th. He ran the three-quarter mile in made it to the finals in the 1 ,000 a time of 3:02. "For where he is at meters and finished seventh in that now, that is a great time," said event. Two other Irish runners also McNelis. made it to the finals in the 800 As the Notre Dame track team's 
meters. They were John McNelis assistant coach said, "It was not a The Notre Dame lacrosse team huddles to they scrimmage against Ashland College on Satur­and Robert Nobles, who placed discuss strategy in a match last year. The Irish day. Pete Skiko previews the team's 1986 campaign see IRISH, page 9 begin preparations for ihe upcoming season when
sixth and seventh, respectively. in his story on page 10. 
Duke retains No. 1 spot in poll; Irish grab lOth 
The Blue Devils, 32-2, were vir­tournament fina1 to national­Likewise, third-ranked Ken­game, was sixth with 958 points, Asscx:lated Press tually the unanimous No. 1 selec­champion North Carolina State. tucky, the Southeastern Conference followed by Louisville with 839, 
tion by a nationwide panel of 64 So it goes most of the time. Only champion, and No. 4 St. John's, North Carolina (809), SyracuseNow comes the "harder" part. sports writers and sports broad­two teams in the past 1 0 years -the champs of the Big East, are (805) and Notre Dame (647). Duke, having finished atop the casters, receiving 63 first-place North Carolina in 1982 and Ken­seeded first in their NCAA regions, In the final Second Ten are 
Associated Press' final college votes and 1 ,279 points yesterday. tucky in 1978 -started and finish­the Wildcats in the Southeast, the Nevada-Las Vegas, Memphis State, basketball poll, now embarks -Kansas, 31-J, received the only ed the tournament No. 1. DePaul Redmen in the West. Kentucky, 29-Georgetown, Bradley, Oklahoma, along with 63 other teams -on the other first-place vote and 1,213 (twice), Indiana State, Michigan -3, received 1,123 points in the final Indiana, Navy, Michigan State, Il­road to Dallas. points. all have fallen short of the ultimate poll, St. John's, 30-4, got 1,082 linois and Texas-El Paso, winner of 
Recent history suggest they'll A year ago, Patrick Ewing-led goal, the national championship. votes. the Western Athletic Conference have a devil of a time holding on to Georgetown was the unanimous "I don't think anything in the The top three berths in the poll tournament, replaced N.C. State, their No. 1 position. first choice and were all but con­season has been all that easy," were unchallenged, but the Redmen an opening-game loser in the ACC 
Notre Dame ended its regular ceded a second consecutive national Duke coach Mike Krzyzweski said moved up one notch in the final tournament. season with a 23-5 mark and moved championship. The Hoyas were yesterday. "So we've been through week. Last week's fourth-place Five teams which finished in the up to the No. 10 spot in the final beaten in the final by Villanova, one 'hard part. Now we're going team, North Carolina, winner of its Top Twenty were unranked at the poll. The Irish topped New which entered the tournament through another one, maybe a little first 21 games but the loser of five start of the season -St. John's, Orleans, 75-67, last Monday night unranked. harder." of its l<!st lO (including the ACC Bradley, Indiana, Michigan State and finished out the schedule with a Two years ago, North Carolina Duke, the Atlantic Coast Con­tourney opener in Maryland) and Texas-El Paso. The five which 69-55 win over Dayton at the ACC finished atop the poll, but it was ference champion, and Kansas, tumbled to eighth. were in the preseason poll but fell last Saturday. They will open Georgetown which finished first in No. 1 in the Big Eight, are top seeds Michigan, 27-4, received 995 out of favor as the season rolled on NCAA Tournament play Friday the last game, beating Houston. in their tournament regions, the points for fifth place, up two not­were Auburn, Louisiana State, against Arkansas-Little Rock in the The year before that, Houston was Blue Devils in the East, the Jay­ches from last week. Georgia Tech, Alabama-Birmingham, N.C. State 
. Metrodome in Minneapolis, Minn. No. 1 in the poll but No. 2 in the jawks in the Midwest. which lost to Duke in the ACC title and Maryland. 
Basketball all-Americans selected 
Associated Press Syracuse, 7-0 center William Bed­Alford, 6-2, the only 1984 Olym­ford of Memphis State and David pian still playing college ball, ranks 
NEW YORK -In a college Robinson, 6-11 Navy center. Mark as Indiana's No. 4 all-time scorer basketball season loaded with Price, Georgia -Tech's 6-0 senior with 1,665 points. outstanding guards, backcourtmen guard and 6-11 Roy Tarpley, a "He's as good a scorer for being Johnny Dawkins of Duke and Steve senior center from Michigan, com­strictly a jump shooter as anybody Alford of Indiana were named to pleted the squad. I've seen," Hoosier coach Bob the Associated Press Division I All­Knight says. America first team yesterday. Dawkins, 6-2, is the leading Berry, the Big East's player of 
St. John's 6-8 center Walter scorer in Duke history with 2,403 the year in the opinion of the con­
Berry, the top scorer and rebounder points and No. 2 all-time in the ference's coaches, averaged 22.9 for Big East Conference tourna­Atlantic Coast Conference. He points and 11.3 rebounding marks ment champions, was the only averaged 19.3 points on 54 percent despite being double and triple­unanimous selection on the squad. field goal shooting and 81 percent teamed most of the season. Maryland's Len Bias and Ken­from the free throw line this season Already a winner of the Wooden tucky's Kenny Walker, both 6-8 and, with point guard Tommy Award as college basketball's top forwards, completed the first team. Amaker, led the· top-ranked Blue player, Berry emerged from the 
Notre Dame standouts David Devils' pressure defense, which shadow of All-America Chris Rivers and Ken Barlow both receiv­
forced an average of 19 turnovers a Mullin this season and took over ed honorable mention. game. the center spot vacated by 7-0 Bill Dawkins also became the first Wennington. 
Alford and Berry are juniors, player in ACC history to ac­The left -handed Berry, who while Bias, Dawkins and Walker, cumulate more than 2,000 points, spent his freshman season at San second-team selections last season, 500 rebounds and 500 assists in a Jacinto (Texas) Junior College, are seniors. career. displayed great leaping ability, A panel of 10 sports writers and "He's the premier player in our unorthodox style and a soft touch broadcasters made the choices. conference," says Mike to lead the Redmen to a 30-4 
The second team consisted of Krzyzewski, coach of 32-2 Duke, record. He connected on 60 percent four seniors -guards Scott Skiles, winner of the ACC in both regular of his field goal tries and holds the 6-1, of Michigan State and Dell season and postseason. school record for total points and Curry, 6-4, of Virginia Tech; 6-ll blocks in a season. center Brad Dougherty of North Alford's outside shooting led In­Berry, who maintains he will re­Carolina and 6-6 forward Ron diana to a 21-7 record and a main at St. John's for his senior Harper of Miami of Ohio -plus 6-runner-up spot in the Big Ten Con­season before turning pro, emerged 11 sophomore forward Danny ference. With 56 percent accuracy as a team leader. In a spectacular Manning of Kansas. from the field and 87 percent from finish to the Big East tournament, 
fhe third team included three the foul line, he averaged 22.4 'he blocked Washington's shot just juniors Dwayne "Pearl" points this season, going over 30 before the buzzer to preserve a 70­Washington, 6-2 guard from points five times. 69 win over Syracuse. 



~,,, 'Ill··~· 
'·\( 


'  
t  
·'  
.  ... ~. ,.,  
·r··".l  .'~ •-·.'"'·,'  
•  •  "1,.  • ·~  


PUBLISHER Alexander Auerbach 
EDITOR~N.CHIEF 
Charlotte Wolter 
CREATIVE DIRECTOR 
Chip Jones 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Barbara Harris 
ART DIRECTOR Molly Ruttan 

6 o Quick Takes ASSOC. ART DIRECTOR Previews ofupcomingfilms, groups on tour, televi­Jack Claeys 
(Above) "Musical 
PRODUCTION ASST.

sion events and books. 
Notes" brings AdamSieman
9 o Crossroads 
you new music PUBLISHING ASSISTANTS This intriguing film, about two mustctans on a personalities, Susan M. Alves questfor a long-lost blues song, is a departure for new records and Rick B. Wilder blood-and-action director Walter Hill. 
news about CIRCULATION SUPERVISOR tours-like Lau­Jocelyn E. Hogan
10 o NCAA Tournament Preview 
(Left) A Bill Wal­rie Anderson with ADVERTISING OFFICES
By Hob Keisser. Its come a long waysince it wasan 
ton stuff was one her multimedia LOS ANGELES 
obscure tourney ofeight teams. Now, college bas­
of the highlights show "State of 303 N. Glenoaks Blvd., Suite 600 ketballs annual spring ritual is one of the most of past NCAA the Union." Burbank, CA, 91502 (818) 848-4668 
important events in sports. . Basketball Tour­naments. Find WESTERN REG. SALES MGR.
12 o Pullout Entertainment Calendar 
Dave Erb
out who could be 

Your guide to whats happening in entertainment. 
this year's star In ACCOUNT EXECUTIVE 14 o Spring Film Roundup our preview of Pat Parins 
This springs new movie releases range from the college hoops' 
NEW YORK 

big event. 250 Fifth Ave., Suite 403 
birth ofthe Swinging Sixties in Absolute Beginners 
NY, NY, 10001 

to a 400-year-old conflict in Highlander. 
(212) 696-Q994 

16 o Brazil EASTERN REG. SALES MGR. 
Rob Burton 

By Hart Mills. Terry Gilliam is a "graduate" of 
ACCOUNT EXECUTIVES

Monty Python, which may explain why his new 
Cindy Vincentfilm has been so outrageously controversial. Meet Robert Aronson 
the unpredictable director ofBrazil. Ann Marie Gentile 18 o Musical Notes CHICAGO PUBLISHER'S REP (Right) Jonathan 
Harry Sherman

By Greg Ptacek. Are the Long Ryders the next great 
Pryce asSam 152 W. Huron St.
American band? Profiles ofthe Ryders and guitar­
Lowry, the down­Chicago, IN. 60610 ist Charlie Sexton, as well as the latest news on trodden hero of (312) 751-1767 records and groups. Terry Gilliam's DETROIT PUBLISHER'S REP 
"Brazil," this Martin T. Toohey
20 o Top Ten Unsigned Bands 
spring's most (313) 643-7797 
By Chris Morris. They are unknowns, except in 
controversial,

their local clubs and college radio stations, but 
and perhaps 

•1986Aian Weston Pubisl*lg, 8-of Alan Westonthat could change soon, thanks to a unique new most Interesting, Communications, Inc., PRESIDENT Jeff Dickey PRESIDENT OF BUSINESS DEVaOPMENT Randy
album from Epic Records. film. Ad:!i!e. AI lighlS rese<ved. (ISSN Q8SS.9469) l.e1lers -theproperty of the publisher and may be edited. Publisher welcomes but assumes oo responsibility for unsollclled manusaiplS. Published flw limes during the school year. Amual SIJbscription rate Is $18. To order" subSCriptions or ootify of change of address, write AmperSand College EntertaJ:vnent Glide, Alan Weston Communications, Inc., 303 N. Glenoal<s Bl., Suite 600, Bu1>ank. CA. 91502, (818) 848-o4666.
SHORT SUBJECTS 
MISSION POSSIBLE 
I 
f you think your summer plans are go­ing to keep you busy, consider the pro· ject Craig D. Reid, a Ph.D. student in entomology at the•University of Illinois, has lined up for himself. Reid, a popular Teaching Assistant at UI, is planning to walk from Ithaca, New York to Los Ange­les to call attention to and raise money for cystic fibrosis research. 
A cystic fibrosis victim himself, Reid, at age 29, has managed so far to survive eight years beyond the life expectancy of 21 for CF patients. Assisted by two friends and a support team in vehicles, Reid will not only walk the 3,000 miles, but will also make numerous public speaking ap· pearances for clubs and civic organiza· tions along the route. 
For information about the walk, or to invite Reid to appear on your campus, write Craig D. Reid, 2064 #BOrchard St., Urbana, IL, 61801. 
IN THE GROOVE 

N
ational College Television (NC1V), the satellite programming service for campus cable systems, is joining students in heading to the beach for spring break. NCTV will broadcast a live Spring Break show, shot on location in Daytona Beach, Florida. In addition, dur­ing the spring break period, NCTV will present a live concert. 
"New Grooves," their unique music video show featuring groups popular on college radio stations, has an interview lineup which includes Nick Rhodes of Ar· cadia, Kate Bush, Marshall Crenshaw and Chas GrayofWall of Voodoo. 
NCTV is a free programming service for campus cable systems, broadcasting 20 hours of programming each week. 
"X" MARIS THE SPOT 
T 
he Student Government Association (SGA) at the University of Illinois re­cently defeated a proposal from its own Minority Committee that student or· ganizations which present screenings of X~rated films lose their student discounts for advertising in the campus newspaper, The Daily Illini. X-rated films were the most profitable screenings for student groups during the past year. 
The proposal had sparked a campus controversy concerning the right of free speech versus the charge that porno­graphic films present negative images of women. Although it decided against the Minority Committee proposal, the SGA announced that it would sponsor a show· ing of "Not a Love Story," a documentary film about the pornography industry. 
BEER BUST 
I 
t may not be all fun, sun and beer along Fort Lauderdale's famed "Strip" this spring break. Local police will be en· forcing a new law forbidding public drinking. Anyone caught drinking in pub· lie will be asked to empty their drink in the street; those who refuse will be arrest~ ed. "You'll be up to your ankles in beer, probably," said Fort Lauderdale Police Chief Ron Cochran. + 

4 
Ampersand 


Music is more than emotional. It's physical. You feel the beat. You feel the heat. It moves your body as powerfully as your mind. 
You tune your body with a desire for perfection. Tune your music the same way. With TDK SA and AD audio cas­settes. They deliver the hottest high end and lowest distortion. With more bril­liance, more dimension, more excite­ment. For unequalled performance on any cassette deck. Play after play. 
And TDK's Lifetime Warranty assures you that the music will never lose its fire. No matter how emotional or physical the workout gets. TDK SA and AD audio cassettes. For musical fitness at its best. 

&TDK. 
WHERE GREAT ENTERTAINMENT BEGINS 
-I ·,~ ••~ '1,"'-.!~l: '<'
• •' ~ ~ • • I -, 

s 

o IDGH­
name not the lead actor) in this in­triguing thriller about a centuries-long battle between ageless good guys and had guys that hegins in the !6th Century and culminates in modern-day New York. Christopher Lambert, star of Greystoke, plays the heroic 470-year-old young man. 
MARCil 14 o THE BOY WHO COULD I•l.Y-A fanciful story about an autistic child who believes he can fly Of course no one believes him. Until ... 
MARCH 14 o. THE HITCHER-Rutger !Iauer is the bad guy once again in this thriller about a young man (played by C. Thomas Howell) who's stalked across the Southwest by a psychotic, who has cho­sen his victim on a twisted whim. 
MARCil 21 o CROSSROADS-The de­scription for this "serious comedy" sounds quite simple: A young man, played by Ralph Macchio, studies classi­cal guitar at Julliard. However, this film is directed by Walter Hill, and it's never easy w say exactly what a Walter Hill mov­ie is about until you actually see it. In this one, Macchio is searching for a missing, fabled blues song by Robert johnson. 
MARCil 21 o ABSOLUTE BEGINNERS-A hig-time musical about the hegin­nings of rock 'n' roll as seen by a British teenager of 1958. It's been directed by hot music video director Julien Temple and features the music of Ray Davies, Da­vid Bowie and Sade. 

MARCH 21 o THE MONEY PIT-Ste· ven Spielberg produced and Richard Benjamin directed this comedy starring Tom Hanks and Shelley Long as a yuppie couple who try to restore a rundown man­sion. As anyone who's been through this experience can tell you, they're in for deep, deep trouble. 
MARCH 21 o POUCE ACADEMY m­Faster than you can say "I can't believe they made a second one," here comes the 
ln Lucas, Corey Haim (left) throws himseH into high school sports to win apretty cheerleader. Charlie Sheen (middle) and Kerri Green (right) co-star. 
third lblice Academx in which our for­mer cadets return to their old academy as instructors. 
MARCH 21 o GUNG DO-Michael Kea­ton stars in director Ron Howard's latest, a ripped-from-the-headlines comedy about a japanese takeover ofa small town American auto plant. 
MARCH 21 o JUST BETWEEN FRIENDS-Mary Tyler Moore plays a widow who learns she has more in com­mon with her best friend than she 
knew-namely her late 
husband (played by Ted 
Danson)-in this bitter­
sweet comedy. Christine 
Lahti plays the friend, who, 
to make matters worse, is 
pregnant with the deceased 
philanderer's child. 
-
MARCH 21 o WISE GUYS-Talk about your victims. Harry and Moe (played by Danny De Vito and joe Piscopo) are two lifelong friend~ who have spent their lives at the bottom of the Mafia "corpo­rate ladder." Now their godfather, look­ing for some amusement, has ordered each man to kill the other. The unlikely director of this comedy is blood and guts horror director Brian De P'&lma. 
LATE MARCH o ECHO PARK-Not ev­eryone hits it hig in Hollywood. There's a much larger group of people who spend their days not quite making it, always hoping for the hig break. Tom Hulce (Amadeus) and Susan Dey star in this olf­beat story about people on the fringes of show business in LA. 
APRIL II o CAPTIVE HEARTS-Vir­ginia Madsen stars as a girl from a strict Catholic girl's school who has a mind of her own, and proves it by falling in love with a boy who's in a pronation camp. 
APRIL II o AT CLOSE RANGE-Sean Penn and Christopher Penn play half­hrothers and the sons ofan outlaw (Chris­topher Walken), who join up with their low-life father to begin a crime spree across the Pennsylvania countryside. Based upon a real-life incident from the late 70s. 

Ayoung man (Sean Penn) is tom between adesire to impress his criminal father, and his doubts about alife of crime, in AtClose Range. 
APRIL 11 o EIGHT MILUON WAYS TO DIE-jeff Bridges plays a former Los An­geles narcotics detective whose search for a prostitute's murderer leads to the uncovering of a massive drug ring. Ro­seanna Arquette co-stars. 
APRIL II o LUCAS-A poignant come­dy about a 14-year-old hoy who views the social and athletic aspects of high school with great distaste, until his unrequited 

Ampersand 

Slides from the same roll 
Seattle FilmWorks has adapted Kodak's professional Motion Picture film for use in your 35mm camera. Now you can use the same film-with the same microfine grain and rich color saturation-Hollywood's top studios demand. Its wide exposure latitude is perfect for everyday shots. You can capture special effects, too. Shoot it in bright or low light-at up to 1200 ASA. What's more, it's economical. And remember, Seattle FilmWorks lets you choose prints or slides, or both, from the same roll. Try this remarkable film today! 
"I have never seen better pictures. Arul I have been taking pictures for many, many years. Am 100% sold!" 
Justin Buckley 

Panama City Beach, FL 
Ideal for use in Canon, Nikon, Minolta, Konica, Olympus, Pentax •.. any 35mm camera. 
Of~HS SFW 

~~--------­
$2 INTRODUCTORY SPECIAL 
I I 
0 RUSH me two 20-exposure rolls of Kodak MP film for my 35mm camera. Enclosed is $2 for a 2-roll starter 
I I
pack including Eastman 5247® and 5294<!l 
I NAME 
I ADDRESS 
I 
CITY STATE 
I 
Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks, 
500 Third Ave. W. 
P.O. Box C-34056, 
I Seattle, WA 98124 
I 

Kodak. 5247, and 5294 arc trademarks of Eastman Kodak Co. Seattle FilmWorks is wholly sepamtc &om rhe manufarturcr. Process ECN-11. 

---------~~ 
I I 

ZIP I
4651 
I 

DIRECT 
MARK!fi!I_G ASSOCI~ON 
~ I
Look for this symool when you shop by mail. 
I 


cert tour of New Zealand, Australia and japan. The tour will not be coming to the U.S., but should result in a movie, TV 
or video project ... OzzyOsbourne's world tour for his new album The Ulti­mate Sin reaches the U.S. in April ... Ju­das Priest takes to the road around in late March ... Both Emersen, Lake & Pow­ell and the Moody Blues are about to em­bark on world tours in support of their new albums ... Feargal Starkey; former lead singer of the Undertones, brings his new six-piece band to the States for an extended schedule of concerts in March. Starkey's single, A Good Heart, written by Lone Justice's Maria McKee, recently topped the U.K. charts for two weeks. His first solo album, released here in january, also contains a Chrissie Hynde-penned song, Made To Measure . .. and last, but certainly not least, AC/DC, a prime target of the Washington Wives censorship movement, devised a unique way of pass­ing incognito through unfriendly terri­tory on their recently completed tour. A sign on their bus read Teens For jesus. 

NEW BOOKS 
The New Trouser 
Press Record 
Guide, Ira Robbins-
o Wanna break out of the mainstream music doldrums? 
Then check this out. The Trouser Press Record Guide is thesource for finding the groups and artists who are creating the music scene of tomorrow. 
The Complete Resume Guide, Marian Faux o The title virtually sells this book, which can help sell you to a prospective employer. It answers the who, what, why and how of resume writing . 
• 
What do you say when someone tells you they love you, and the feeling's not mutual? Read "You Can Never Go Wrong by Lying" tor the answer. 
opRESTON BLAIR PRODUCTIONS 

Norton, Alice and Ralph return in The OfficialHoney­mooners Treasury. 
The Official Honeymooners Trea­sury, Peter Crescenti and Bob Co/urn­be o Do you wanna go to the moon? If you're a fan of "The Honeymooners," this affectionate collection of memorabil­ia will send you into outer space. In­cludes rare photographs, interviews with cast and crew, the original scripts of the "Classic 39" episodes and enough other information to fill a pair of Ralph Cram­den's pants. 
You Can Never Go Wrong By Lying, Patricia Marx o Marx (former writer with Saturday Night Live) humorously tackles contemporary social dilemmas, like how to borrow a few bucks from someone you already owe a lot of money. 
Where Did Our Love Go, Nelson George o With keen attention to detail, George paints a telling picture of Berry Gordy Jr., the complex personality who built the Motown empire and molded some of the world's gf~atest performers. 


night. Break out the pop corn and find a comfortable chair, because, besides be­ing long on glitz, the Academy Awards are just plain lo-o-ong. 

MARCH 31 o NCAA BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIPS "THE FINAL FOUR"-College hoops' big showdown for the national title. 
VIDEO 
Sony Video Software Co. has released a full-length videotape of the only fully-re­hearsed public concert John Lennon performed between the Beatles 1966 American tour and his death in 1980.john Lennon Live in New }brk City was taped in 1972 at Madison Square Garden, when Lennon appeared for a benefit. 
love joins the cheerleading squad. Sud­denly, the diminutive, sensitive Lucas be­
ON THE 

comes a "joiner" and finds himself sacri­ficing life and limb on the football field. 
ROAD 

APRIL IH o LEGEND-Tom Cruise stars as "Jack 0' The Green" in this un­
European super­usual fantasy about faeries, goblins and group Marillion is unicorns, and a young man who must just now cros&ing save the world by fighting the evil Lord of , the Atlantic to cap­
Darkness-played by Tim Curry, which means he should be an amusingly evil vii­!ian indeed. 
APRIL 18 o HALF MOON STREET­Bob Swaim, the American who hit it big as 
the director of French thrillers, wrote and directed this drama about international intrigue starring Michael Caine and Si­gourney Weaver. 
LATE APRIL<> MIRACLES-Teri Garr and Tom Conti play a couple who have gone south of the border for a divorce, only to find themselves the hostages of off-the-wall Mexican bank robbers. Paul Rodriquez plays the leader of the loony desperadoes. 
LATE APRIL o TilE MEN'S CLUB-Sev­eral men get together and talk about women. That may not sound like much of a plot, but with a cast that includes the likes of Roy Scheider, Frank Langella, Harvey Keitel, Treat Williams, David Dukes, Sandahl Bergman, Stockard Chan­ning and Jennifer jason Leigh, The Men's Club may end up to be something that's far from ordinary. 
MAY 2 o JO JO DANCER, YOUR LIFE IS CALUNG-Richard Pryor is the pro­ducer, director, co-writer, and star of this drama about an entertainer who must re­evaluate his life after nearly dying in a drug accidem. It's fiction, but obviously based on events in Pryor's off-screen life. Debbie Allen co-stars. 
Ampersand 
·~ . i/i -II!> ture America, some :-. • ""',.. • three months late and it's all because ofSpandau Ballet. It seems Marillion's lead singer Fish ran into SB drummer john Keeble last year at the U.K. Live Aid concert. Keeble, discov-
Simple Minds hope to cash in on the success of 
their recent Top 20 album when the band tours the 
United States throughout March. 
ering that they were planning to be in Dublin at the same time. suggested they sample the Irish capitol's nightlife to­gether. They did and Fish lost his voice in the process, cancelling the British tour and delaying the American leg ... Sim­ple Minds returns to the U.S. in March to capitalize on the success of their first top­20 album, Once Upon A Time . Pat Benatar is currently on the road for the first time in two years ... The Volunteer Jam, Tennessee's annual concert event, originally scheduled this year for Febru­ary 1 has been moved to july 12. Tradi­tionally held shortly after the New Year, concert promoters got cold feet about scheduling another pre-spring Jam when last year's fans had to endure seven inch­es of snow, sleet and temperatures in the low teens... Aerosmith is nearing the mid-point of their six month American tour in support of their latest LP, Done With Mirrors, the first LP with the original lineup since 1979 ... Black Sabbath is currently on the road in support of their latest album The Seventh Star . Bob Dylan and Tom Petty have just complet­ed their month-long collaborative con-
TELEVISION EVENTS 
MARCH 24 o THE OSCARS­Glamour, glitter, and even a good film or two, are all part of Hollywood's biggest 


Joe Seneca (background) and Ralph Macchio (foreground) play two musicians in search of alegendary old blues song, with Jami Gertz (center) as a teenage runaway who joins them. Macchio (below) looks like areal professional on gui· tar, but in reality he took three months of intensive lessons to prepare for his role as a Julliard classical guitar student. 


n Walter Hills Crossroads, two musicians take to the road in the deep South on a quest: Eugene (Ralph Macchio), a young man hop­ing to gain fame by rediscovering a fabled, 
hut long-lost, Rohert]ohnsorz blues song and Willie 
(foe Seneca), an old man willing to surrender his 
soul to the devil in order to become a legendary 
blues figure. 





CROSSROADS 

career by springing upon the world a missing johnson tune. 
lie searches out Willie Brown (Joe Seneca), the only living link to that blues giant, and together they head down South. Willie shows the ambitious white hoy that the only way to master the feel of blues is to live like a hluesman. 
"This is what it was like," the 24~year~ old teen idol says, "Waking up in the morning and not knowing where your meals arc coming from and where your family's going and what's happening with your life and then drinking jack Daniels for lunch." 
Even though Seneca has never re~ ceived any formal training in blues, he contends that there is a blues world in him, because of his experiences. 

"I've observed and lived with blues people. I think there are people who are aware of their roots and pay attention to them. They will know that (inherently) they belong to the blues group," Seneca says with conviction. 
Without such intimate contact, a musi­cian can never become a trut•-to-his~heart hluesman. "lie's got to have more feeling for the music,·· says Seneca, who played an honest doctor in 11Je Verdict and has gained critical acclaim from a host of stage rok•s on Broadway. 
A catalyM of the movie is Francis, a 17­year-old gutsy and vibrant runaway, played by _Iamie Gertz who recently starred in Quicksill•er. She sparks Eu~ gene's drivt' to succeed and brings out his vulnerability as well. 
The heavily roots· inlluenced music of Crossroads'soundtrack was produced by celebrated slide~guitarist Ry Cooder. Conder stresses that blues music has a sound to which almost evl'ryonc can re~ late. The fundamental qualities of the music, he said, are its simplicity and abili­ty to makl' people feel good. 
Although Director Ifill and his stars arc coy on the subject of how the film's jour~ nL'Y condudes, it is evident that Eugene, the white guitarist with a fervent desire to play the greatest blues ever, adds much more to his life than a mL'rL' song. 
Crossroadswill he released nationwide by Columbia Pictures on March 21. 
• 
Amfiet-stmd 

"I(Jgctlwr they flee the old man"s dingy I !arlem rest home, crisscrossing the heart of tht· Mississippi delta. Their destination is a crossing, where two dusty, sunbaked roads meet, for a strange encounter under an old gnarled tree. 
Along the road. they are joined by a teenage runaway (Jami Gertz) on a quest of her own. 
Filmed mostly in the cradle of the blues~ Greenville, Mississippi and the surrounding Delta towns just off U.S. IIighway 6! ~Crossroads is about the re· lationship between Eugene and Willie, who share a love of blues music, and the meanings of their evocative tunes. 
Directed by Walter llill, famous for such hullet~paced movies as 48 /Irs. and Streets r!fFire, Crossroads explores a fa~ miliar theme, that of dream~seekers who end up linding themselves. 
"It's really a sweet story about three people, two of whom are learning from each other on their journey through the Mississippi delta and its music," says Macchio, the Karate Kid~turned young guitar prodigy. 
In this movie, he plays Eugene Mar~ tone, one of Juilliard's most gifted stu~ dents, who hopes to launch his own blues 

College basketball's spring ritual is bigger and better than ever. 
BY BOB KEISSER 
W 
hat do Bill Cosby, Pat Ewing, joan Collins, Larry Hagman, Akeem Olajuwon, James Wor­thy, Shelley Long, Johnny Car­son, Cheryl Miller, Michael Jordan, and Michael]. Fox have in common? 
They're all television stars. And in 1986, someone like Walter Berry, Pearl Washington, Brad Daugherty, Kenny Smith, Roy Tarpley or Mark Price will join them after starring in one of the most ex­citing television events this year. 
If you know even a little about basket­ball, you know we're talking about the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) annual college basketball na­tional championship tournament. This yearly celebration has grown from an ob­scure, regional ·:vent into a gala tourney 
(Below) Michigan star Roy Tarpley 
goes up for astuff. (Right) Top­
ranked North Carolina's Kenny Smith 
(30) and Jeff Lebo (14) demonstrate the Tar Heels smothering defense with aperfecHy executed trap. (Above) Walter Berry, Sl John's col­orful guard, is asure bet to be astar in this year's tourney. 
NCAA Tourna11ent: Hoops and Hoopla 
rivaling the Rose Bowl in impact. 

The NCAA, the governing body for or­ganized college athletics, began its na­tional championship tournament in 1939 with eight teams. When television joined the celebration in 1963, with limited syn­dicated coverage of the tournament, UCLA and its magnificent coach, john Wooden, were creating history with an in­credible run of 10 titles in 12 years. 
llowever, the tourney kept its insular atmosphere, until NBC began telecasting regular season games in 1975. 
"Back when I played in the tourna­ment, it was a personal, localized event," said Billy Packer, CBS' respected college basketball analyst, who played in the tournament in 1962 and 1963 while a guard at Wake Forest. "There was no co­hesiveness in the game because you rare­ly saw any ofthe teams from other pans of the country. And the games didn't have the impact they do today." 
Most experts feel the tournament came ofage in 1979, the year two ofthe greatest collegians in history met in the NCAA fin­als-Earvin "Magic" Johnson of Michi­gan State and Larry Bird of Indiana State. 
Magic was a personable, multi-talented young man with an engaging smile and presence who represemed a big city at­mosphere. Bird, called ''The hick from French Lick" (his hometown in Indiana), was a tireless performer, a magnificem shooter and a hero in mid-America. 
If Magic and Bird gave the event star appeal, a change in the number of teams has given the tourney scope. It has grown from 32 teams in 1975, to 64 this year. 
Television's role in the 1986 tourna­ment will be expansive. CBS will be tele­vising the tournament for the fifth time, and 19 games are scheduled to be tele­vised across the country on the three con­secutive post-season weekends. ESPN, the around-the-clock sports cable chan­nel, will televise 20 through the regional semifinals. 
First-and second-round games will be played at eight different sites March 13 to 
16: Greensboro, North Carolina and Syra­cuse University in the East; Louisiana State and the Charlotte Coliseum in North Carolina in the Southeast; the University of Dayton and the Indianapolis Metro­dome in the Midwest; and Weber State in Ogden, Utah, and the Long Beach Arena in the West. 
The sixteen surviving teams will meet in the regional semifinals and finals March 20-23 at four new sites-the East at the Meadowlands Arena in New Jersey; the Southeast at The Omni in Atlanta; the Midwest at Kemper Arena in Kansas City; and the West at The Summitt in Houston. The four regional winners meet in the Fi­nal Four at Reunion Arena in Dallas March 29 and 31. 



Unlike last year, there is no dominant player like Ewing, and no 1986 team can feel assured of a berth in the Final Four. There are at least a dozen that could walk out of Reunion Arena with the NCAA title on the last day of March. 
The Big East Conference sent three teams to the Final Four a year ago and the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) could match that figure this season. The ACC at one time boasted the top three teams in the nation in the weekly wire-service polls-North Carolina, led by guard Ken­ny Smith and center Brad Daugherty; Georgia Tech, paced by guard Mark Price; and Duke, bolstered by the exciting Da­vid Henderson. 
The Big East boasts the most competi­tive conference in the nation and could send as many as five teams to the playoffs. Syracuse is led by playmaking guard Pearl Washington, St. John's has dominant in­side star Walter Berry, and Georgetown has balanced shooters, David Wingate and Reggie Williams, and coach john Thompson, one of the nation's best. 
Other teams with reasonable hopes for an NCAA title include independents Memphis State and Louisville, Oklahoma and Kansas ofthe Big Eight, Michigan and its star, Roy Tarpley, of the Big Ten, and perennial Southeast Conference power, The University of Kentucky. 
The women's tournament will be held at the University of Kentucky in Lexing­ton. Semifinals are on Friday, March 28, and the final game, on Sunday March 30, will be televised by CBS. 
In women's basketball, look for num­ber one-ranked University of Texas' Lady Longhorns, driven by point guard Kamie Ethridge, and number two Georgia, with 1984 Olympian Teresa Edwards, in the final four. Other teams with a good chance to make it to Lexington are 1983 and 1984 NCAA champion USC, with the incredible Cheryl Miller, Louisiana Tech, Virginia and California State University at Long Beach. USC is a sentimental choice because this is the final year for Miller, 

~ who almost singlehandedly has put worn­
§ en's bastketball in the spotlight. + 
~ 
a: 
g 



.. 
' 
I 

SAJUDAY

THUIIDAY 
FRIDAY 
18 
18 

No Money? AT&T Long Tom Cruise, Tim Curry 
LEGEND Fantasy 

Distance Operators are HALF MOON STREET 
standing by to help you 
call collect. Michael Caine, Sigourney Weaver 
Suspense 

23 
24 

PASSOVER 
25 
28 

MIRACLES Comedy¢ Teri Garr, Tom Conti School's almost over! Time to 
THE MEN'S CLUB Dramastart thinking about next Roy Scheider, Frank Langella
year's courses and pre-regis­ter if possible . 

2 
30 
Call your 
grandparents )0 )0 DANCER, YOUR LIFE just to IS CALLING Drama 
say hello. 
1 MAY • . 
. 

Richard Pryor Call on AT&T Long Distance to start lining up your summer plans. 
7 8 
8 
a 
Take a break from finals cramming and call an old pal. 
14 15 ~0 

NCAA MEN'S TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Athens, Georgia Good news to report and 
~ 

NCAA WOMEN'S TENNIS you're away from your 
CHAMPIONSHIPS Don't forget Father's Day, phone? Use your AT&T Card. 
Austin, Texas June 15 


STAY CLOSE WITH AT&T LONG DISTANCE 
You'll enjoy fast, clear long distance connec­tions from anywhere to anywhere, anytime. At surprisingly affordable prices. You may even earn extra savings ... learn about AT&T's special programs-call toll free: 
1·800·222·0300 

AT&T 
The right choice. 

YOU'LL FIND SAVINGS EVERY DAY WITH AT&T. 
With AT&T's discount you'll save more than one third off our daytime prices every evening: over one half every night and weekend. 
Evening hours:  Sun.-Fri. 5 P.M. -11 P.M.  
Weekends:  From 11  P.M. Fri.-5 P.M. Sun.  
Nights:  Every night 11  P.M.-8  A.M.  






~ 

TV EVENTS FILM OPENINGS 
AT CLOSE RANGE10 Sean Penn,
8 
Christopher Walken 
DIE Suspense 
Roseanna Arquette LUCAS Comedy Charlie Sheen 


(Above) Jonathan Pryce plays Sam Lowry, the lowly hero of Brazil, who can soar on golden wings, but only in his dreams. (Right) Virginia Madsen and Craig Sheffer play young lovers from opposite sides of the tracks in Captive Hearts. 
/ 
/ .. 

(Above) In Gung Ho, plant foreman Hunt Stevenson (Michael Keaton) becomes ahero when he brings in aJapanese auto giant to save his small town's auto factory. But the town soon learns that its troubles are just beginning. (Below) At Close Range is the gripping story of two brothers (Sean and Christopher Penn) drawn into their father's life of crime. _ ..;~<::-• 
(Above) Just when you thought it was safe to get atraffic ticket, the Police Academy Illcrew returns. (Right) Sigourney Weaver is involved in in· trigue in Half!.toon Street. 

PREVIEW OF SPHIN6 MOVIE 



ABSOLUTE BEGINNERS 
T 
he film set is magic. London, Soho, the 19'i0s, the winking lights of the Club P..mama, the fake f:1cade of the L:1.~t Days of Pompeii, the Patisseric V.1lerie the ren­dezvous of the nightswingers, the cool cats and the disinherited. 
Music pulsates through the sound stage and a vintage Vespa disgorges BigJill, the Wizard and Dean Swift. nebopping along the narrow streets are Mr. Cool, the Mis­ery Kid and the Fabulous Hoplite, while Colin and Suzette, the kading characters of Ah.mlllfe UeRinners, begin their sweet, uncertain romance. It's Guys and Dolls with a Britbh beat. 
The nowI Absolute 1/eginnersby Colin Macinnes was a cult bible of the ''iOs. It is set in the long, hot summer of the Notting !lilt race riots which eventually gave way to the rule busting Swinging Sixties. 
The film, according to director julian Tcmplt', will cover this territory with an unblinkered look. "It was a wonderful time in English history It was a peculiar llowering, an escape route from the so­cial constraints." 
Cast largely with unknowns, Absolute lleginners is counting heavily on its "dream" soundtrack to attract an amli­encc. David Bowie wrote and performed the theme song, and Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Elvis Costello, Sade and I"Jul Weller of The jam are all featured. 
-joan Goodman 
HIGHLANDER 
nside an immense, cavern-like garage beneath Madison Square Garden, two immortal warriors arc engaged in a fi­nal battle. To end their 400-year-old 
struggle -for a Prize which conveys ulti­mate knowledge and power-one must hehead his enemy. 
Christopher Lambert, who played Tar­zan in Greystoke, is Connor MacLeod, a 16th cemury Scottish clansman. !lis story begins when he survives what should have been a mortal wound in battle with an evil warrior, Kurgan (Clancy Brown, the monster in The Bride). 
lie is visited by a flamboyant adventur­er, Ramirez (Scan Connery), who teaches him that he is one ofa special race of men destined to battle evil-personified in Kurgan through the ages, to a final con­flict at a time called "The Gathering." 
That time is 1986 Manhattan, where Brenda Wyatt (Roxanne Bart), a weapons expert, is busy combing the streets of Manhattan for the cause of numerous bi­zarre headless corpses. She will be drawn into the conflict between MacLeod and Kurgan which will climax in the dark ga­rage beneath New 'rbrk City. 
Visually, Highlander promises to be a feast for the eye, sweeping from historic Scottish castles ami villages to ultra-mod­ern Manhattan. Director Russell Mul­cahy's dynamic style also insures that it will be a feast for action-lovers as well. 
-Albert Pang 


Colin and Suzette are Absolute Beginners in an uncertain romance set in the 50s. 


AT CLOSE RANGE 
A 
t Close Range, starring Scan Penn and ChristopherWalken, is loose­ly based on events surrounding a family gang, whose spree of mur der, robbery and other crimes terrorized the beautiful rolling countryside of Ches­ter County, Pennsylvania in 1978. 
Producer Elliott l.ewitt brought the idea to writer Nicholas Kazan, who­making no pretense at docudriuna-t:tsh­ioned a compelling script about a crimi­nal father and son. 
Sean Penn, on seeing Nicholas Kazan's script, immediately signed on. Director James Foley, was equally enthusiastic. "The story is incredibly rich," says Foley, "the tapestry of emotion is so layered, so complex and it's set against hard action." 
Brad Whitewood, Jr. (Scan Penn) and his brother Tommy (Christopher Penn) live in debilitating poverty with their mother and grandmother having long ago been deserted by their father, nrad Sr. (Walken). Brad Sr. is involved in crimes ranging from murder to smuggling. 
In an effort to impress his father, and escape his poverty; young Brad organizes his own gang. lie finds it is a passage to nowhere, and the film follows Brad Jr. as he teeters between crime and the law. 
At Close Range features powerful per­formances by Penn, Walken and Mary Stu­art Masterson as Bradjr.'s innocent young girlfriend. 
-Joan Goodman 

GONG HO 
P 
roblem: The shutdown of a local auto factory throws lladleyville, Pennsylvania, a small tight-knit community, into financial chaos. Every business in town is either dead or dying, while residents llock away like mi­grating birds. 
Conflict: llunt Stevl·nson, an ex-fore­man at the defunct auto plant,cngineers a last-ditch plan to saVl' the city. lie llil•s to Tokyo and lures powerful Assan Motors into rt'OJX'ning the !J.S. factory. 
llunt. played by Michael Keaton (who has worked with !Inward in Night Shiji) becomes an instant folk hero, "The Man Who Saved lladleyville." !lis counter­part, Japanese auto cxecutivt' 'Etkahara Oishi (Gedde Watanabe, the wacky for­eign cxt·hange student, Long Duck Dong, in Si.xtee11 Candles), suddenly finds him­self one of the most powerful men in a small American town. 
llowever, all is not well in I ladleyvillc: cultural antagonisms simmer, egos clash and dill"l·rent philosophies of auto manu­facturing collide. 
Solution: Ron lloward, director of .~uch box office hits as Splash and Coco(JII, barges into this troubled Midwest town and turns the impasse into a funny and touching movie railed Gung !Ia. 
Filmed in Pittsburg, parts of Ohio, T<>­kyo and Bueno Aires, Gzmg llo is light­hearted comedy with a social message. 
-Albert Pang 
Ampersa11d 


BRAZIL 

T
erry Gilliam doesn't play by Hol­lywood's rules. Brazil goes against the American movie in­dustry grain, from its odd title to its uncompromised ending. It's in keep­ing with Brazil's weird character that the Los Angeles Film Critics named it Best Film of 1985 before it had even been re­leased in this country! 

Lowry feels trapped in "Brazil's" wortd, asort of "1984" as performed by Monty Py1hon. 
Brazil, a curious tale of a dream-struck individual Oonathan Pryce) swallowed by a petty bureaucracy, almost never got to American movie screens. Gilliam, a dream-struck individual if ever there was one, stubbornly refused to go along with Universal Studios' desire to recut Brazil into something more upbeat. The studio, in turn, held up the tilm's release in the United States. 
Petulant, headstrong and completely 
original, Gilliam got his way in the end. 
From his base in England, the veteran of 
"Monty Python's Flying Circus" waged, 
and eventually won, a bitter public battle 
for control of his film. Brazil was finally 
16 Ampersand 
released in mid-February. 
To Universal, Gilliam must have seemed like an unruly child-and there's some truth in that view. Gilliam on a film set is like a 10-year-old with a lifetime supply of Lego bricks. During filming in London, Gilliam, 44, bounced around the playground-er, sound stage-with a fifth grader's unquench­able energy and transient enthusiasms. 
To survey the set of his bizarre political fantasy-"Part George Orwell, part Wal­ter Mitty, and at the moment Orwell is in the lead" -Gilliam leaped onto a camera platform and climbed 10 feet up, hand over hand. He gleefully peered from un­der his boyish bangs at the world of Bra­zilbelow. 
The set was the marbled, high-ceil­inged lobby of the Ministry of Informa­tion Retrieval, the ferocious bureaucracy that rules the world. Below, a gang of ter-
Katherine Helmond plays Lowry's dominating mother, Ida, awoman who owes her amazing looks to plastic surgery. 

Jonathan Pryce plays Sam Lowry, ahumble clerk in the vast Ministry of Information Retrieval, where a clerical error can shatter alife. He escapes his bleak existence by taking flight in his dreams. 
rorists, led by Robert De Niro, were re­hearsing an assault on the Ministry. 
"I generally describe Brazil in a pre­tentious way as a post -Orwellian view ofa pre-Orwellian world," said Gilliam. "That description bores everyone stiff, so they leave me alone." 
"So, what's it about?" he continued. "It's about a dreamer (played by Pryce), who tries to escape from reality. I'llleave it to others to decipher the film." 
Pryce, acclaimed for his portrayal of Hamleton the London stage six years ago and for his role as the villain in Something Wicked This Way Comes, says of Brazil, "It will he like Gilliam's Monty Python cartoons, which, in turn, are exactly like him-the tangible shape of his dreams." 
Gilliam, who hardly ever sheds his sun­ny disposition, nevertheless has some strange dreams. His last film, the interna­tional hit Time Bandits, though ostensi­bly a children's fantasy, eads with the he­ro's parents being burned to a cinder. 
As for the title, Brazil, it seems there was a popular song called "Brazil" in the '30s, with lyrics of the type that rhyme moon and june. For Gilliam, the song suggests the romance craved by dreamers in the cold, cruel world of Brazil. 
Like other former Pythons, Gilliam has worked hard to develop his prankish mentality. "I like things to be a bit crude. I revel in the way things are, not the way 
en 
0 
i5 
i'? 
en 
..J 
~ 
ffi 
> 
z 
:::> 
.._ 
0 
>­
~ 
a: 
8 :::> 
, en 
~ 
0 
~ 
they ought to be. My mind works like a kid's mind, and that's not a pretty sight. Everything I do is done to please myself. That may sound egocentric, hut it's all I know how to do." 
Brazil is "more dangerous than Time Bandits, more like 'rollicking had times,' " Gilliam warns. "Pryce's charac­ter finds that he can't escape reality. He becomes a hero, hut there's a price." 
Gilliam was not delighted with the need to light for his film, once he'd fin­ished it and everyone agreed it worked 

Kim Greis! plays Jill Lay1on, acigar-smoking truck driver who is Pryce's fantasy love interest 
very well. ''I'll go down in flames," he vowed, as he orchestrated his campaign. "But I'm not interested in my career in 
Hollywood. I'm interested in this film." 
His relentless zeal and final victory proved that in Hollywood-if not in Bra­zil-once in a while the little guy can win. + 

r!J r 
I 

,,'
j1tlf 
~I
(I I 
I ; 
•~' 
BY GREG PTACEK 
Inside Track 
Bits and Pieces ... 
B 
and Aid will switch its emphasis from music to sports in '86, ac­cording to Midge Ure, lead singer of Ultravox and co-organizer of the famine relief project. Ure and fellow Band Aid organizer Bob Geldof are envi­sioning an international sporting compe­tition, not unlike the Olympics but with· out the nationalistic bent. Ure says the event will focus on sports' inherent "ele· ment of entertainment rather than one country battling against another."... If you owned a new record company and could sign any acts to seven year record­ing contracts, who would you choose (the ultimate goal being, not your favor­ites, but those that (Tlake the most mon­ey)? This is not a new board game but the question posed in a recent survey of 20 top recording industry leaders. The sur­vey results included both expected and 

Bob Geldof and his associates are tak­ing the Band Aid campaign to raise funds for famine relief into anew arena: sports competition. 
surprising choices. Bruce Springsteen was by far the favorite, followed by Prince, Michael jackson, Lionel Rich­ie and U2 in the top 5. Bryan Adams, Talk­ing Heads, Sting, Eurythmics, Stevie Wonder and newcomers Lone Justice, Ju­lian Lennon and Whitney Houston were all included in the top 20. However, es­tablished artists such as Diana Ross, Neil Diamond, Paul McCartney, Kenny Rog­ers, Elton John, The Cars, Hall and Oates, John Cougar Mellencamp, Cyndl Lauper, Van Halen and Tina Turner didn't even make the list.. . . A half dozen movie soundtracks went gold or platinum in '85, more evidence to convince Hollywood producers that records sell films. The soundtrack mania that began last year will reach near hysterical heights this year with nearly two dozen already an­nounced for '86. Among them are Quick­silver(with songs by john Parr and Marily Martin, Ray Parker, Jr., Roger Daltrey, Thomas Dolby, Peter Frampton, et a!), Prince's Under The Cherry Moon, Talk­ing Heads' True Stories, Laurie Ander­son's State ofthe Union, and David Bow­ie and Sade's music for the British film Absolute Beginners . . . Ch-ch-changes. Boz Scaggs is coming out of retirement (he's now a San Francisco restauranteur) and will release a new LP soon. Steely Dan co-founders Walter Becker and Don­ald Fagen are re-forming the band, cut­ting a new album and eventually going on the road. The Tubes, minus lead singer Fee Waybill, have re-formed under the moniker Inner Tubes. Singer Colin Hay, minus his former band, Men at Work, is at work with a new Aussie band. 
I 
I (;. 
Record watch 
J 
oe Jackson will soon release a live album, recorded in New York at the Roundabout Theatre in january. The album includes 90 minutes of new; never before heard material . . . Expect Daryl Hall's second solo LP in April. He recorded the album in England at the church the Eurythmics' Dave Stewart con­verted into a recording studio. joni Mitch­ell sings back-up on one of the tracks ... Allee Cooper hopes to land Ratt produc­er Beau Hill to do his comeback album. Twisted Sister's Dee Snider, who consid­ers Cooper his mentor, has agreed to sing back-up ... The live album from the Jazz Aid concert, which took place in Febru­ary in Los Angeles, will feature Dizzy Gil­lespie, Sarah Vaughn, Stanley Clark and Freeflight ... Iron Maiden has be-
The Long Ryders: The next great American band? 
(Left) Daryl Hall and John Oates hit alow note with mu­sic industry leaders in a recent survey of acts the record execs would most like to sign. However, idealistic Irish rockers U-2 (above) scored high with the decision· makers. 
gun work on a new album, part of which they will record at Compass Point in the Bahamas and part in Holland ... Expect new albums by Van Halen and Genesis 
in March ... RickJames plans to work on four albums in the next six months. He will soon release his own solo album and plans on producing albums for the Mary jane Girls, Process and the Doo Rags, and The Stone City Band (his backing group) ... The Thompson Twins have released a special, limited edition live album just for their fans in England. When the trio had to cancel their British tour last fall, the Thompsons said at the time they'd re­fund fans' ·money out of their own pock­ets. Now they're giving fans a choice­the money or this live album from the group's '85-'86 American tour Only 10,000 copies have been pressed, and the collector's items are already fetching $30 or more ... Orchestral Manoeuvres in The Dark is on the soundtrack of the new film, Pretty In Pink. 





-~:::k 
l~ 
The Long Ryders 
-GinsRenee Gross 
W 
e're entering the third year of the American roots rock move­
ment. As with any new move­
ment, the dust had to settle in order to distinguish the true talents from the poseurs. Standing clearly on the hori­zon of this new musical frontier arc The Long Ryders, a Los Angeles-based quartet whose members hail from all parts of the coumry 
The Long Ryders' latest album, State of the Union, demonstrates an ahlity to play everything---from punk to country---with a skill and grace that compares favorably with the Talking I leads. 
Equally important, the Long Rydcrs possess the savvy 10 combine political in­sight with poetic lyricism. With a little more exposure, The Long Ryders are a gooJ bet for the next great American rock ·n· roll hand. 
We caught up with guitarists/vocalists Sid Griflin and Steve McCarthy as the group was starting a cross-country tour. 
On their sound ... Griffin: "The band is very mixed. We've played with The Circle jerks, and we've played at the P'dlomino (a Los Angeles country & western club), where truck drivers would love to kill kids with purple mohawks. 
"We adjust our sound to where we play. For punk gigs we've said, 'We're not go­ing to play any ballads tonight,' and just played everything slightly faster, and we've gone over fine. I keep waiting for the audil•nce that will throw raw eggs and tomatoes, but they never have." McCarthy: ''All the band memhers hring different musical backgrounds and inllu­en~.·cs to the band, and we try to incorpo­rate that into the original compositions we write. I've been playing country music since I W'dS a kid, yet we are definitely influenced by punk. It all kind of works out when we mesh it together. I hate to subscribe to a label, but we arc an Ameri­can roots rock hand, everyone's roots." 
On being musicians ... Grijfiu: "My parents would have much preferred, to say the least, if I had ~one to law school or stayed in Louisville, Kentucky and be· come an insurance saleman. A few years a~o, I asked my Dad, 'Why did you let us play in the basement when you hate rock 'n' roll?' My mothl•r hutted in, 'At least we could keep an eye on you. We km·w if you were smoking marijuana, because the smoke came up throu~h the vents'." 
(Musical Notes ccmtlrmes em page 22) 

Ampersand J<J 

The Reducers 




The Pressure Boys 
Free World 

W 
here the hell are the Reducers? Not around for deadline time, explains their manager Ken Evans-they're off beating the bushes in their native Connecticut, play­ing a benefit not far from their home base of New London. 
And who are the Reducers, you may ask? Though not exactly a household name yet, the four members of the band-guitarists Hugh Birdsall and Peter Detmold, bassist Steve Kaika, and drum­mer Tom Trombley-have been together for seven years. 
The quartet has even issued a single and cut three albums (The Reducers, Let's Go! and Cruise to Nowhere) for the small independent label, Rave On Records. However, to date the group remains little known outside of the East Coast colle­giate bar circuit-
All of this might change for the Reduc­ers. Last summer, College Media]ournal's (CMJ) New Music Report (a "tip sheet" that compiles the playlists of 400 college and alternative radio stations, retail stores and clubs) put out a call for tapes of un­signed American bands_ WCNI-FM, the radio station serving New London's Con­necticut College, sent in the title cut from the Reducers' Let's Go!album. 
Thanks to WCNI-FM's help, Let's Go has netted a spot on a new album, Epic Presents the Unsigned, a unique project which showcases, according to the liner notes, "the ten best unsigned American bands most likely to ..." 

TEN BEST UNSIGNED BANDS 
You won't hear them on Top 40 radio, yet, but local college radio programmers think these are the brightest of today's new bands. 
BY CHRIS MORRIS 
Even listeners get into the Unsigned act, voting for their favorites via a postcard enclosed in the LP. If the Reducer's barn­storming, guitar-driven sound gets a "thumbs up," the band could be handed an Epic contract-That's a sure-fire ticket to major-label megabucks and that elu­sive prize, national recognition. 
Nine other uncompromising and ob­scure American groups stand to become the beneficiaries of the CMJ/Epic grass­roots scouting program. Epic Presents the Unsigned uncovers a diversity of styles and sounds, forged by previously unher­alded musicians who have paid heavy dues in their local scenes. 
Some of the bands on Unsigned are well-known outside their locales, but haven't made the breakthrough to the Big Time yet-Minneapolis' Sussman Law­rence Band issued a two-record indepen­dent LP, an Elvis Costello-influenced work that spawned so much record indus­try interest that their presence on Un­signedwas in doubt for a while. 
The New Orleans-based Radiators, composed of seasoned Crescent City vets, have played with such giants as Dr. John and Allen Toussaint. The group has opened for top national acts, toured ex­tensively, and established itself as the town's preeminent bluesy bar band. 
The lesser-known acts on Unsigned prove to be as original as their better-rec­ognized fellows. The top entertainment value on the record is supplied by Blue Sparks from Hell, a six-man outfit from Scranton, Pennsylvania. Their '1\merican jive" a fusion of r&b, swing, Motown, and jazz that the band calls "a cross between the Marx Brothers and Mick Jagger," is heard to hilarious effect on the Coasters­like comedy number "Real Man's Car." 
Hardly less impressive are the SL Paul bar band, The Criminals; Alabama's new wave/pop/rockabilly quartet, The Crime; and Chapel Hill, North Carolina's quirk­pop quintet, the Pressure Boys. The rhythm-and-blues end of the spectrum is covered by Cleveland's super-smooth Vi­sions, while The Rothchilds -actually Toledo, Ohio's Tom Toth-and Connect­icut's Free World represent electronics. 
The Unsigned compilation is more than just a major-league exposition of the American underground's do-it-yourself record-making principle; it's also a unique example of a major label taking a risk on college radio's ability to pick the hitmakers of the future. 
The entire project is the brainchild of one of college media's biggest boosters: Bobby Haber, publisher and editor-in­chief of CM]'s New Music Report. Haber's seven-year-old publication is a widely­read compendium of ultra-hip record in­dustry feedback, culling the hottest spins from 250 taste-making college program­mers from across the country 
"The best A&R force in America is kids at college (Continued on nextpage)~ 
PHOTOS AND 
ILLUSTRATIONS 
COURTESY OF EPIC 
RECORDS/CBS INC. 

Do you hear dump trucks roaring through your living room when you watch TV? 
If you hear bullets ricocheting across your living room, turbulent water falls crashing down the stairs when you watch lV, you possibly already have a Teledap­ter. However, if you don't, read on. 
If you have a lV and a stereo system you can enjoy the excitement you've been missing .•. nowl· The Teledapter's unique electronics will combine your lV and stereo into a powerful entertainment center that would easily cost thousands of dollars. Imagine having the best front row seats in town for your ball games, musicals, and movies. 
Teledapter works with any lV, VCR, or satellite receiver, regardless of age or model, and conveniently plugs into the auxiliary, tape, or tuner input on any stereo amplifier or receiver system. All lV, satellite, cable, and VCR programs will have the same powerful sound as your stereo system and speakers. 
HOW 
All Teledapters contain Stereo-Plex211 syn~ thesizer circuitry for all mono TV's and VCR's. It transforms their sound into sparkling two<hannel stereo effects. Got a stereo TV or VCR? No problem. Just plug them in (TE-250). Since most lV and cable programming is mono, the Stereo-Plex circuitry will pick up where your stereo TV or VCR stops short. 
Mono sounds, even when played through two speakers, appear to come from one direction-the center. 
Stereo sounds come from two directions. The stereo/mono test is really simple: Plug the Teledapter up, push the mono/stereo but­ton on your stereo. 


When you go from mono to stereo, Jis. ten to the sounds spread out across the room. Perform
I USTENERI 
the test without a Teledapter, and a mono signal will remain in the center. 
l 
The TE-100 Tele­dapter has our Type 1 Stereo-Plex. syn­thesizer circuit. Its one isolated low TE·100 impedance input allows it to be connected directly to the speaker terminals or earphone jack of the lV, and then its left and right outputs are plugged into the left and right inputs on the stereo. The isolated input provides total chassis isolation between the TV and stereo for complete protection of both components. The TV and stereo may be located any distance apart. 
BElTER 
The TE-200 has all of the same qualities of the TE-100, plus a Type 2 Stereo-Plex synthesizer that gives more defined stereo separation; plus a high impedance input that allows the TE-200 to be connected directly off your VCR audio output, which is convenient if your TV doesn't have any outputs; plus an output level control for optimum level adjustment of the audio signal. 

BEST 
The TE-250 has all of the qualities of both the TE-100 and TE-200, plus a Type 3 Stereo-Plex111 synthesizer for even greater defined separation; plus the latest integrated circuit design; plus stereo inputs that allow this unit to be used with a stereo, VCR, or TV; plus a bypass fea­ture allowing the synthesizer to be cut off, allowing a stereo source to pass through; plus multiple inputs that expand the input capabilities of your stereo; plus a tape monitor loop that allows the TE-250 to be used with everything coming through your stereo-AM, tapes, records, etc. 

'-... 
llliiZdOpiC!f 
'~ 
(r' ~ 
niiOAIIU 
~~ 
-
..... 

* MADE IN AMERICA * 
Each one of these products is designed and manufactured in the U.S. by the company that invented Good TV Listen~ ing twelve years ago. Each unit is meticulously built to give lasting quality and years of service. 
Offering our products direct enables us to be sure that the salesperson you talk with is able to handle your order knowledgeably. 
All Teledapter models come with com­plete instructions, cables, and our HElP­line phone number. Should your Tele­dapter ever need service, it will be repaired quickly and correctly. 

r--------------­
TRY A TELEDAPTER® ATNO RISK 
Take the first 30 days with Teledapter as a test. If you're not completely satisfied, return it for a complete refund and your mailing costs. You can't lose. Teledapter is also backed with a two-year warranty on parts and labor. 
Teledapter TE-100, $19.95 plus $3.00 ~ and handling. 14 pter TE-200, $39.95 plus $3.00 ~tage and handling. Teledapter TE-2SOA, $69.95 plus $4.00 postage and handling. 
TOLL FREE l.S00.2Sl-8608 In Tennessee call 1-615-381-9001 
24 Hours 


I 

Send mail orders to address below. Credit card and money orders processed immedi­ately. Checks require 18 days. 
Turn your TV and stereo into a RIIOADE' 
NATIONAL CORPORATION
powerful entertainment center 
Department 223 
Highway 99 East • P.O. Box 1316
with TELEDAVIER® Columbia, TN 38402 

Major anthology now seeks poems: love. nature, haiku, religious, song lyrics, reflective, free verse-all types! Beginners welcome! Our editors will reply within 7 days. Send ONE POEM ONLY, 21 lines or less, to: 
WORLD OF POETRY PRESS Dept. AM • 2431 Stockton • Sacramento, CA 95817 

BEST PLACE TO STAY IN NEW YORK CITY! 
Safe, clean, convenient Central Park West loca­tion-close to Midtown businesses, theatres, museums, Lincoln Center; all subway lines. Se­curity, concierge, & maid service. In-house din­ing facility. Free use of Health Center. S1ngles from $25, doubles from $36. Reservations rec­
ommended. WEST SIDE YMCA 5 West 63rd St., New York, NY 10023 (212) 787-4400 ext.123 
tA.l'£ wB.Qg~1~!1l1t!!leorecords. bOOks. vtdeos & posterst U2, DURAN. 
REM, BRUCE, LED ZEP, POLICE, AC/DC, KISS t-100's more! Rock. New Wave. Metal & Punkl 1000's of items not 0\IOIIOble tn Amencat GIANT 44-PAGE CATALOG wtth 
over 500 photos. $2.00. ROCKAWAY, Box 1508-D. Woodbndge. VA 22193 
MEET FRIENDS FOR SPORTS, hobbies, travel vacations, corresponsence­nearby or seventy countries worldwide. Write Electronic Exchange, Box 68-AS, Manhattan Beach, California 90266. 
NOT ME! 
What happens when Simon says ''I'm not Simon"? Curious? Write: Tish I Say When Press I Greenbelt MD 20770.Free Samples. 
LOSE WEIGHT.ENERGIZE•LOOK GREAT 
"DIET AIDS"STIMULANTS"TANNING TAB­LETS 100% GUARANTEED. Send three dollars for sample pack of our most popular, strongest 
stimulant tablets + FREE color catalogue: REACH PHARMACEUTICALS, 5219-EB 
Hixson Pike. Hixson TN 37343 
SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, "in between" students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!! 
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED-Cost is about the same as asemester in a U.S. college:$3.670. Price includes jet round trip to Seville from New York, room, board, and tuition com­plete. Government grants and loans may be applied towards our programs. 
M-5 
college you a!lend 
your name 
your presenT street address 
Crly state 
''P 
If you would like Information on future programs give perm1nent 1ddreu below. 
your permanent s!reet address 
crty stale 
''P 
MOVIE POSTERS 
Actual posters as used by theatres · from "Aguirre'' to ''Zelig.'' Lobby cards, stills, much more. Best selection. FAST SERVICE! Huge catalogue $2.00 (refundable). 
·CII~II::~\A\ ·CIIlr~ 
P 0. BOX 1012 DEPT. A MUSKEGON. MICHIGAN. 49443 
"It's a Gumby® Dorm Shirt, Dammit!" 
Yours for Sl650 
plus S2.00 postage/handling White shirt with red trim features original five-color. silk screened Gumby/Pokey design. High quality. easy-care 50% cotton/50% polyester. One size fits all. 
MAIL TO: GUMBY DORM SHIRT BOX 3905. SCHAUMBURG, IL 60194 
Enclose $18.50 for each Dorm Shirt ordered. Illinois residents odd 7% soles tax ($1.30). Checks/moneyorders payable to "Gumby Dorm Shirt:' 
NAME 
ADDRESS 
ROOM/APT. 
CITY STATE ZIP 
Please note: Allow 6·8 weeks for check clearance and delivery. 
Live with a Spanish family, attend classes four hours a day, four days a week, four months. Earn t6 hrs. of credit (equivalent to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over a two year time span). Your Spanish studies will be enhanced by opportunities not available in a 
U.S. classroom. Standardized tests show our students' language skills superior to students completing two year programs in U.S. Advanced courses also. 
Hurry, it takes a lot of time to make all ar­rangements. 
SPRING SEMESTER-Jan. 30-May 29 FALL SEMESTER-Aug. 29-Dec. 19 
each year. FULLY ACCREDITED-A Program of Trinity Christian College. 
For full information -send coupon to: 
SEMESTER IN SPAIN 
2065 Laraway Lake Drive S.E. M-5 Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 (A Program of Trinity Christian College) 
s 
TED 
TEN BEST UNSIGNED BANDS 
(Continued from previous page) radio 
stations," Haber says. " We tried to take 
and collate their interest and informa­
tion." 
Haber took his idea of an album of un­
signed bands to Epic Records in New 
York, where he found an interested lis­
tener in Frank Rand, Vice President of Na­
tional A&R-the executive charged with 
overseeing signings. 
"There are kids making tapes who are 
unaware of how to get them to A&R peo­
ple," Rand says. ''And college program­
mers are around music all the time-they 
know what kids want to hear." 
Given the go-ahead by Epic, CMJ solic­
ited college programmers in July, ulti­
mately receiving 275 tapes (during sum­
mer breakI) .The final cut to ten tracks was 
made by CMJ and Epic staff members in 
one marathon, all-night listening session. 
Epic Presents the Unsigned, has been 
received so favorably by Epic, that anoth­
er compilation is being discussed for later 
in 1986. A postcard mail-in will again de­
termine the public's choice for best un­
signed band, and the results would be an­
nounced at CM]'s annual awards 
ceremony in New York. 
"CMJ is really achieving its goal," says 
Evans. "The alternative network is a fo-



rum for new music-a way for some fresh air to slip in." 
With albums like Unsigned available in record bins everywhere, a mere tapping at the gate may now be enough to make today's Podunk pub-rocker, tomorrow's All-American guitar hero. 
• 


THE SHAVE FOR PURISTS ~~th?::~~cessary.

Just the smooth, clean comfort of 40% more lubricants than the leading foam. That's shaving in its purest form with Fragrance-Free Edge geL 
It's not your ordinary shave. 
New Fr~rance·Free 
Edge Gel. 
~ 
-~ 
·'' -cJ
I 
:;] 
I
.. ­
•, ....... 


If you think the best way to pay for 'College is to put it off for a few years and join the military, you're half right. 
Because with the New GI Bill, you can join the Anny National Guard and get a guaranteed minimum of $18,000 for college. 
But best of all, you serve two days a month and two weeks a year. Which means you can go to school full-time. Right now. On us. 
So the question you have to ask yourself is not, can you afford college. 
The question is, can you afford to wait. 
For more information about the Anny Guard and the New GI Bill, fill out the attached coupon and mail it in. Or callS00-638-7600* 
•In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721·4550; Guam: 477-9957; Virgin Islands (St. Croix): 773-6438; New Jersey: 800-452-5794. ln Alaska consult your local phone directory. 
r--------------------1 
MAIL TO: AnnyNationaiGuanl, P.O. Box 6000, Clifton, NJ 07015 
~~-----------------------------OMOF 
NAME 
ADDRESS 

CITY/STATE/ZIP ~~=o;--;;:-;-;-ru:;-;;------------US CITIZEN 0 YES 0 NO 
AREA CODE PHONE 

SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER BIRTH DATE 
OCCUPATION STUDENT 0 HIGH SCHOOL O.COLLEGE PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE 0 YES 0 NO BRANCH RANK AFM/MOS 

"*"NOA&MTI(WYOIJVOlUNT...,.YI'MOII'U INCI.l.IDIHGYOUA S0CUU. SfCUAil'VNUMBEH WilL Ell: USEOFORRECRliTINGPIJI'IPOSESOMY YOUASOCLAL .SfCl.ATYHUt.IBER 
National Guard 

L :::.BE~l~Y~~T=S~H=~~----------J 
t1985l.INfTED STATES GOVERNMENT AS REI='m:SENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ALL RIGHTS RESERVED 










