Jazz-page 6 

..---------­
VOL XX, NO. 125 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 1986
. 

' an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Libyan media coverage 

The Libyan news agency ]ANA transmitted these photographs of Monday night's U.S. air raid. The picture above allegedly shows wreckage from a l!.S. jet downed 011er Tripoli in the attack, while res­£·uers remor'e a l'ictim from the ntbble of a building in Tripoli Tuesday.]ANA did not clarify whet­her the victim was alive or was one of the estimated 100 Libyans reported dead. Related stories below, at right, and on page 4. 

USSR cancels diplomatic meeting as protest of U.S. 'bandit action' 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The Soviet Union yt·sterday called oti a planned meeting between U.S. Se<:retary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze bt-causc of the U.S. bombing raids on libya, an·ording to a governmt·nt statement carried hy the official Soviet news agency Tass. 
The statement announcing the Soviet decision demanded an im­rnt·diate halt to the li.S. attacks. 
Shevardnadze had been st·heduled to visit Washington from May 1-4· 16 to arrange for a summit in the United States this 


Foreign reaction mixed on attack 
Associated Press 
Atlt·a.~t one U.S. ally said Monday it was told in advance about the American air atta<:k on Libyan tar­gt·ts, hut most foreign govern­mt·nts did not react immediately to news of the strike. 
In a statement released by his oflke, Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney said his govern­ment "ha.o; been tully consulted by year between President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gor­bachev. 
"In etiect, the administration it­self has made impossible at this stage the planned meeting on the level of the ministers of foreign af­fairs of our two countries," the statement said. 
The government statement said the Kremlin had warned the United States against continuing provocative actions. 
"The Soviet government resolutely condemns the ag· gressive bandit action taken by the United States against libya, a sovereign state and a member of 
the United States all along and was notified in advance ofits intentions with respe<.·t to Libya. 
"We accept President Reagan's statement that Libya was involved in the perpetration of terrorist at· tacks," Mulroney said. 
It was past midnight Monday in Europe when the White House an· nounced the bombing raids. At British Prime Minister Margaret the United Nations organization, and demands an immediate end to it. Otherwise, more far-reaching conclusions will have to be drawn in the Soviet Union," according to the statement. 
The White House called the Soviet decision "a mistake." 
"The Soviet decision shows where they stand on the important issue of international terrorism. It also says something about their commitment to work con· structively on issues on the U.S.­Soviet agenda, including arms reductions and regional crises," said presidential spokesman Larry Speakes. 
Thatcher's office in London, press officer Mike Horne said: "Until I get full details I shall not be able to comment. I doubt if we will have any comment until tomorrow morning." Opposition leaders, however, assailed her decision. 
Elsewhere in Europe, anti· 
American protesters demonstrated outside U.S. diplomatic missions in West Ger­many, Greece, Austria and Cyprus. 



Reagan announces success in air raids as Libya retaliates 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The White House proclaimed U.S. air raids on libya a success that "struck a blow against terrorism," but libya ap­parently retaliated by aiming a hit­and-run strike at a remote U.S. Coast Guard station in the Mediterranean yesterday. 
President Reagan said "the United States won but a single engagement in the long battle against terrorism" and pledged to continue with more strikes if necessary. 
Diplomats here estimated 100 people were killed in the attack on Tripoli, including Libyan leader Col. Moammar Khadafy's 15-month-old adopted daughter Hana. Two of Khadafy's sons, aged 3 and 45, were injured in the raid. 
But Libyan officials said Khadafy himself was not hurt. 
"We would prefer not to have to repeat the events of last night," Reagan told a group of business ex­ecutiv<."S. But he said that would be up to Khadafy, whom he labeled an arch-terrorist. 
"What is required is for libya to end its pursuit of terror for political goals," said Reagan. "The choice is theirs." 
Presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said the nighttime U.S. born· bings "successfully accomplished" their twin objectives of damaging Khadafy's ability to perpetrate ter· rorism and showing him the United States would strike to punish him for past attacks on Americans and to pre-empt future ones. 
An air and sea search was under way for an Air Force F-Ill fighter· bomber and its two-man crew mis­sing after the Monday night attack. 
lbe Pentagon identified the missing airmen as Capt. Fernando L. Ribas-Dominicci, 33, of Puerto Rico, the pilot; and Capt. Paul F. Lorence, 31, of San Francisco, the weapons system officer. 
Pentagon spokesman Robert Sims said rescue planes continued to search over the water off Libya after dark yesterday but had found "no evidence of survivors, no beepers, no strobes" to indicate where the lost plane went down. 
He said the search-and-rescue operation was not drawing fire and no other U.S. forces were in the area, despite Libyan reports of a renewed attack. 
Barely 15 hours after the bombing of targets in and around Tripoli and the western port city of Benghazi, Libya announced a retaliatory strike of its own against the U.S. Coast Guard telecommunications station on the tiny Mediterranean island of Lampedusa. 
A U.S. Coast Guard spokesman said at least two missiles were fired from an unidentified ship or plane at the long-range navigation station on 


Moammar Khadafy 
the Italian island north of the Ubyan coast. 
The spokesman, Nicholas San· difer, said a report from the island indicated the missiles landed in the water just off the island, causing no damage or casualties. 
Speakes said the United States was still assessing the situation and he could not say what the response might be. He said there were 31 Coast Guard personnel at the long· range navigation site and that they had no weapons other than personal small arms. 
see LIBYA, page 4 

U.S. diplomat wounded in surprise attack in Sudan 
Assodated Press Kelly, later described him as a lower· 
ranking embassy employee who was 

WASHINGTON -An American not in a policymaking position. employee at the U.S. embassy in The British Broadcasting Corp. Sudan was shot and seriously reported that the victim was a tech­wounded yesterday in Khartoum, nician. Kelly would not confirm that, 
the State Department said. however. 
A State Department spokes­Stockman said he was shot in the woman said U.S. officials do not head by unknown a.o;sailants and has know who was responsible for the been hospitalized in serious condi­
assault, and no group has claimed tion. 
responsibility. However, the inci· Robert Bruce, another State dent followed anti-American Department spokesman, said the protests sparked by the U.S. bom­American was leaving the embasssy bing of neighboring libya. in his car when another car drove up 
The White House said it had few beside him and shots were fired. details about the attack, but spokes· Bruce, who works on the depart· man Dale Petroskey said President ment's Mrica desk, said the attack Reagan had been told of the shoot­took place in the afternoon or early ing. evening, Eastern Standard Time. State Department spokeswoman Earlier yesterday about 200 Anita Stockman would not identify demonstrators shouting "Down, the victim. She initially identified down U.S.A.," marched through him as a diplomat, but another State Department spokeswoman, Diane see SUDAN, page 4 

The Observer Wednesday, April 16, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
Robert O'Brien has been honored for his 34 years as director of the Notre Dame Bands by a resolution authored by Mic­hael Madigan, speaker of the Illinois House of Represent~tive~. ~e resolution proclaimed April 2 as Robert O'Brien Day m Illinots. O'Brien a native of Breese, Ill. has announced his retirement at the end of thls academic year. He directed the concert band in recent performances in Illinois on the way to and return from a tour of southern states.-The Observer 
Of Interest 
Senior Month activitiesadvance registration will take place today and tomorrow from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. at the LaFortune Information Desk. -The Observer 
Co-Ed Living Abroadwill be the subject of Radio Free Notre Dame tonight on WVFI-AM from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m .. WVFI­AM Station Manager Sheila McDaniel will host studio guests and take questions and comments at 239-6400. 
An Tostal Canoe Race signups for two­member teams are now being taken at 283-5260. The race is limited to the first 40 teams that signup. -The Observer 
Mike Switek and Don Montanaro,studem body president and vice president respectively, will be the guests on WVFI-AM's Campus Perspectives tonight from 10 to 11. Lynne Strand will interview them on their presidential campaign and their future plans for student government. Calls from listeners will be taken at 239-6400.-The Observer 
"Women and the Word:The Gender ofGod in the New Testament and the Spirituality of Women" will be the topic of Saint Mary's second annual Madeleva Lecture tonight at 7:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Sandra Schneiders, associate professor of New Testament Studies, jesuit School of Theology/Graduate Theological Union, Berkeley, California, will deliver the lecture which is open to the public and is free ofcharge. -The Observer 
"Suing the CPAfor Fun and Profit"will be the topic of a lecture by Micheal Garrett, CPA of Coopers and Lybrand, New York, tonight at 7 in Room 127 ofNieuwland Science Hall. The meeting is sponsored by the Beta Alpha Psi.-The Observer 
"Politics and Society in Contempory Latin American Theater" will be discussed by Carlos Miguel Suarez Radillo, author and critic, today at 4 p.m. in Room 122 of the Law School. The lecture is sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute. ­
The Observer 
"Shoah-A Polish Perspective,"a critique on the movie "Shoah," will be held tonight at 7:30 in St. Adalbert's Con­vent, Grace Street. The discussion, sponsored by the Polish American Congress ofSouth Bend, will feature Kazimierz Lukomski, national vice president of the Polish American Congress, and Dr. Wojciech Wierzewski, journalist and film critic.-The Observer 
The 1986 College of Science Lectureship in Biology will be held today, tomorrow, and Friday at 4 p.m. in the Galvin life Science Auditorium. Dr. Bernard Moss will discuss "Biology of Poxviruses" today, "Regulation of Vaccinia Virus Gene" tomorrow, and "RecombinantViruses as live Vaccines" Friday.-The Observer 

Weather 
More snow is not expected. Mostly cloudy today with highs in the low 50s. Partly cloudy and cold tonight with lows in the upper 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer Thursday with highs in the low 60s. -AP 



Today's issue was produced by: Viewpoint Copy Editor........... Tim Adams 
Viewpoint Layout............ Melissa Warnke Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowler Features Copy Editor...... Gertie Wimmer Design Assistant ................. Robert Luxem Features Layout.........•........... Chris Bowler Typesetters ......................................Pat Oark ND Day Editor ...................... Ellen Mastako 
Suzanne Hammer SMC Day Editor............................... MJ Sully News Editor ........................ Mary Heilmann Ad Design .................................. Fred Nelson Copy Editor ..............................CliffStevens Kimberly Brown Sports Copy Editor............... Marty Strasen Photographer .............................Jim Carroll 
lbe Observer ( l 'SPS ~99 2·~000) is published Monday through Friday ex<·ept durin(~ exam and vacation periods. TheObserver is published by the students of the l'niversity of Notr10 Dam" and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may he purchased for S.~O per year ( 1.!0 per ..:m10ster) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. :-iotre Dame. Indiana ~M~6. ' 
1be Observer is a member of lbe Assoclared Press. All reproduction right> art' 
r~srry~. 

Americans must try to understand European reaction to U.S. air raid 
This sure isn't the '60s. 

The United States attacks libya in an overnight bom­
bing raid, and people are literally cheering. 
A banner hanging outside of Flanner Hall reads: United States-2, libya-0. The nation lets its collective frustrations out. Reagan is still a god, and Americans are wondering why the rest of the world -specifically our European allies-aren't exactly rejoicing with us in our victory. 
What's the matter? Don't they want to stop terrorism, too? Terrorist acts are taking place directly on European soil. So why have none ofour European allies, except for Great Britain, come out publicly in support ofthe raid? 
One answer is that Europeans in general are afraid ­frightened as much by the United States as they are by the Soviet Union. As a civilization whose power is in decline, Europe has been caught in an uneasy bind bet­ween the two superpowers, both geographically and ideologically. 
Europeans must exist on 

D the same continent as the Soviet Union; therefore, the threat of destruction to their homes and countries looms overhead, contributing to a more wide-spread policy of appeasement toward Russia than we have in the U.S. 
They fear any agitation which might bring the hor­rors of both World Wars ­which were fought on European soil -back down on them again. Directly at-· tacking Soviet-supported libya, they most likely think, can only increase their dan­gerous situation in world af­fairs. 

On the other hand, western Europe has ideological and historical ties to the U.S. which bind them to our national tenets offreedom and democracy. But they feel that they have no real input in U.S. policy affairs, which contributes to their sense of helplessness. European destiny, many of them feel, is being guided by the in· sensitive, nationalistic hand ofAmerican foreign policy. 
The gulf between the American and the European Weltansbauung widens. 
Who's right? Should America have retaliated or should we have refrained from escalating the violence? Neither side· American or European-fully understands how passionately the other feels about the subject. 
Last year when I was studying in Austria through Notre Dame's lnnsbruck program, Europeans con­stantly challenged my beliefs as an American. Unfor­tunately, I probably sounded more like an ideologue than any "brain-washed" Russian, because my German was only on an approximately second-grade level, and 
~~ 5.95 Value! ~~ PANTENE STYLING MOUSSE 
A h u/. r,m ul firrn llold Pro-Vit,unin Siyling Mou~,l' \ you" H<H wtlh the purd1ase ol Jll $B Shampoo, Cut & Blowdry! Limilt>d qu,ullily per S.1lon -while ~upplie> IJ'I. 
I. (\\'J 3(e Ilon't \Vorry .~bout wh,tt to do wtth tlw kul,,f wlll'n you t Ollll' 111 lot .1 ><'rVilL'-~'"'~ tlll'lll wtth 
you! LPttlwm pl.ty in our "Ktddi!' Pl.ty Arl'J'"-mm­plt'lt' Wtlh IO}'' ,md hook'' No" '" mo'l ,,,lwh. 
Scottsdale Mall 291-0009 Plymouth Center 935-9984 Lasalle Square 237-9049 River Front Square Niles 684-7210 Buyers Outlet Mall South Bend 272-4036 
Have you tried our suntan beds? 
We U~e, Recommend & Retail 

O,u!y B·H; S,ll. 8··6 
~REDKEN 

Sun. 10-5 
Salon Prescription Haircare Products 


Mary Jacoby 
Accent Editor 
all I could spit out were things like, "I like peace" or "Russia is not good. They are bad." 
But as my German progressed (or when I just spoke English with my European friends), I came to realize how imperialistic and strong-minded our country really seems to foreigners. Americans live on such a broad ex­panse of land that most citizens never travel outside their own country, much less learn foreign languages or alien views. Europeans, however, live close together in a multi-lingual area. 
Thus, Americans tend to become cut-off from oppos­ing views. We do not under­stand why others do not agree with our actions and policies. We do not under­stand the fervent opposition people in the Middle East and even Latin America feel toward America, which they 
USSR view as a big bully 'With a lot of money seeking to impose its own will on the rest ofthe world. 
A lack of mutual under­standing leads to conflict and often anger -like the anger many Americans probably feel toward Europe for nor supporting our actions against ter­
rorism. 
It remains for the historians to look back and judge the prudence of America's action against Libya. In the meantime, a more subtle approach to:vyard, the,com-c plexities of national psychology might prove fruitful. 

I ------IWI rm:OUI'ON 

l Child's J49 l 
I Cut I I 
Children 10 & Under IA"~'~-1.'"'""' I
I Expires 5116/86 86164 _'GJC,I.L:Y!·· 
~C~d~w~~~.:·~u~ ~r~ _ ~F~~ 
No Appointments ­Just Walk In! 


~~----------------------~ 
The Observer Wednesday, April 16, 1986 -page 3 

AMociated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan lost a key battle over aid to Nkaragua's Contra n·bds yestt·rday as the !Joust· rebuffed a Republican bid to separate the aid proposal from a spt·nding bill Reagan may choose to Vt'tO. 
The llouse in a near party-line 221·202 vote thwartt·d an effort by furious Republican leaders to sub­stitute new ground rules for ones impost·d by tht• Ilouse Democratic lcadnship. 
The rules drafted by the Democratk majority on the House rules t:ommittee were then ap­proved in a narrow 212-208 vote. 
Rt·publkan kadas said the deci­sion to tit· tht· Contra aid plan to an unrdatt·d S1.7 billion supplemental appropriations bill was a blatant politkal move designed to kill the aid program and leave the rebels with no U.S. support ofany kind. 
But Democrats said the GOP should be grateful for a second t:ham:e of obtaining aid for the anti· Sandinista guerrillas in light of their 222·21 0 defeat on the issue last month. 
Only one Republican joined 220 Demoaats to oppost· Reagan's posi­tion. Twenty-seven Democrats and 
17';  Republicans  supported  the  
Whitt· !louse.  
Earlier,  President  Rt·agan  im·  

plored tht· Ilouse to approve $100 
million for the rebc:ls in Nicaragua, saying Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy has sent weapons and ad­visers there to "bring his war home to tht• United States." 
As the House opened considera­tion of Reagan's request for military and other assistance for the rebels, the president told a group of busi­ness executives that Khadafy "has bragged that he is helping the 
Nicaraguans  because  they  fight  
America on its own ground."  
Addressing  the  American  Busi·  

ness Council on the day after U.S. warplanes bombed a host of targets in Libya in reprisal for terrorist acts against Americans, Reagan said: "I would remind the House voting this week that this arch-terrorist has sent 5400 million and an arsenal of weapons and advisers into Nicaragua to bring his war home to the United States." 
"We do not underestimate the brutality of this evil man," Reagan said. "Col. Khadafy ought not to un­derestimate either the capacity or legitimate anger ofa free people." 
Tht• parliamentary jockeying came as lawmakers began to con­sider anew Reagan's Contra aid program, which was defeated in the House 222·210 last month. The Senate subsequently approved the plan in late March by a narrow mar­gin, but with several conditions on how and when the money could be sent to the counterrevolutionaries. 
As the House opened its session, a man stood in the publicgalleries and yelled at Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., 0-Mass., who was presiding. 
"The blood of the Contras will be on your conscience if you don't give them the money, Tip," he shouted, calling the speaker by his nickname. 
As police ejected the man from the chamber he shouted, "God bless America." He was not immediately identified. 
In advance of the House debate, presidential spokesman Larry Spealtes said that if the present rules arrangement prevailed, "we're going to begiven the shaft as far as an opponunity for the American people to have a vote" on the sole question of whether to approve military and other assistance for the rebels opposing the Sandinista government in Managua. 
As the Contra aid plan appeared on the House agenda for the second time in less than a month, House Minority Leader Robert Michel, R· Ill., assailed as "an abomination" the effort by Democrats to link the rebel aid to a Sl.7 billion supplemental ap· propriations bill. 
Republican Whip Trent Lott of Mississippi said he would offer "a fairer substitute rule that would prevent the Contra aid provisions from being incorporated (in the spending bill) and would guarantee separate votes on the various Contra aid alternatives." 

CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
CLUB REGISTRATION 
i\d clubs ;Jnd organizations must now rcgist~r with the Student Activities Officv for thl' !986-87 CJcadcmic year. 
Forms arc now available for: 
1. 
Registration 

2. 
Funding 


J. Football Concess~on Stands 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All orianizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now. locations are chosen by lottery. 
Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office lst Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS APRIL 18~ 1986 
HPC discusses aspects ofcouncil organization 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior StaffReporter 
The Hall Presidents' Council, 
comprised largely of newly-elected 
presidents, met last night at Fisher 
Hall for what turned out to be a brief, 
organizational meeting. 
The evening's lone item of busi· ness involved the amendment of current HPC by-laws under which the HPC is run jointly by a chairper· son and an executive coQrdinator. By a 20-3 vote, far exceeding the necessary two-thirds majority, the Council voted to allow for co­chairpersons. 
The passed amendment reads as follows: "Co-chairpersons of the HPC may be elected in place of a chairperson and executive coor­dinator. The established duties of the chairperson and executive coor­dinator will be divided between the two co-chairpersons as they see fit." 
The co-chairpersons will retain one vote between them, according to the amendment. 
Following the passage of the amendment, the co-chairpersons, Joanie Cahill and Sheila O'Connor, called for volunteers from the coun­dl to represent the IIPC on the Stu­dent Senate. Three hall presidents will be chosen. Cahill and O'Connor also requested volunteers from the council to comprise the HPC Sow­der Award Committee for which five hall presidents will be chosen. 
Each month the Sowder Award Committee selects a hall for its out­standing spirit or community service. 
The HPC representatives for the senate and the HPC Sowder Award Committee will be chosen later in the week, according to O'Connor. 
Also present at the meeting were Bruce Lohman and Maria Cintron. Lohman, a member of the student committee designed to aid in the selection of the next University president, distributed surveys to bt· completed by hall residents con­cerning the criteria for the new president. 
Cintron, chairman of the Judicial Board, requested that hall presi­dents, particularly those on the South Quad, try to find a representative to serve on the Un­dergraduate Student Council. This council represents students facing disciplinary action. 

Saint Mary's events planned by Board of Programming 
By.KIM YURATOVAC 
News Staff 
Increased publicity and student involvement were among the goals set for next year by the Saint Mary's Board Of Governance at last night's meeting. 
The board hopes to achieve more awareness through increased publicity by utilizing bulletin boards, faculty updates and greater communication between students and student government, according to Student Body President Jeanne Heller. 
"We're concerned with increas· 
ing awareness," she said. 
Heller encouraged all to voice their opinions in the "Gripe Night" scheduled for this Sunday. 
The board also discussed with Saint Mary's Housing Director Pat Rissmeyer their concern for increas­ing the role ofresidence hall govern· ment. 
Heller suggested that there be greater communication and involve· ment between the hall and student body officers. 
Heller also expressed student government's desire to aid the ad· ministration in recruiting and ac­commodating minority students at Saint Mary's. She said the board is waiting to talk with the administra· tion before they talte action. 
The board also highlighted some of next year's specific plans, includ· ing Safety Week, to be held Sept. H­I 2, self defense courses and a heightened awareness ofdate rape. 
In other business, Judicial Com· m1ss1oner Sandy Cerimele an­nounced that hall elections will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on April 23 in Haggar College Center. 
Cerimele said that a "Meet The Candidates" night will be held April 21 in the llaggar College Center par­lor. 


...-----------, 

I REGUlAR RAXat IIWITH PURCHASE OF I IREGUlAR FRIES ANDl I MEDIUM DRINK 1 
I I
IOur famou. ~x roaet beef, aliced I l•in, piled high, and eerwd on a I 1.esame-eeed roll. 
II"'Noe ,....nl <-beforw onloring. Ono . I 

I«f.pon por por1on por "'"''. Noc ..Jid In combiMhOn ,I ,...h any other Rax oil••· Oftor fP)dot portic!pllllng 1 ..... IW.UOUI'IIll>. V20 cml collh ""'"'"pnon \1111... · •1986 Rax Rntautllnto, Inc. 
I I
I·1 -1I 
I I 
I t 
L--~---~-----­


.............. .. ..............
~ ~--------~~ 
The Observer Wednesday, April 16, 1986-page 4 

Misfired Libyan missiles caused damage to cities, U.S. pilots say 
Associated Press 
Aboard the U.S.S. America, Mediterranean Sea -libyan forces may have inflicted damage on their own citizens with badly aimed anti­aircraft missiles, according to air­men who participated in the U.S bombing raid. 
The commander of the U.S. 6th Fleet also said yesterday that he was surprised libyan planes were not used to counter the U.S. strike. 
U.S. pilots and bombadiers who helped conduct the ra.ld said plenty of surface-to-air missiles were fired at them by the libyans but that most seemed to go straight up in the air and fall back down again. 
They said they saw no libyan planes and had also anticipated more ofa libyan response. 
Libya 
continuedfrom page I 
Speakes also confirmed that a truck laden with rocket launchers had exploded outside Yokota U.S. Air Force Base in Japan at 6:10a.m. yesterday but said it was too early to say whether the incident was the result of a terrorist attack. He said there were no injuries. 
American military and diplomatic installations throughout the world are on full alert, and Speakes said Americans have been constantly advised "to be prudent and cautious when they're traveling." 
An estimated 800 Americans are still believed to be in libya, despite President Reagan's previous order that they depart by Feb. I. Ap­proximately 15,000 Italians and tens of thousands of other Europeans are 
Corrections 
Because ofan editing error, the incorrect time was listed for a seminar in the Of Interest column in yesterday's Observer. The seminar, to be conducted by two officials of the Bennett's In­formation Group, will begin at 1 
p.m. today in the Center for Con­tinuing Education auditorium. 
Also because of an editing er­ror, the number of targets and type of aircraft employed in the 
U.S air strike on Libya was incor­rectly stated in the graph accom­panying yesterday's Observer article on the raid. F-1 11 bom­bers assisted in the attack on five targets. 
Make Her Eyes Sparkle 
Flowers Say It Best!" 


GJUAd! g&u;eu 

~(ji#tl 
In Roseland Across from Wendy's 
272-NDND 

Safely back aboard the U.S. aircratt carrier U.S.S. America, the airmen said much of the damage caused by the strike likely came from the libyans themselves and their poorly aimed missiles. 
The airmen and the fleet com­mander, Adm. Frank Kelso, spoke to a pool of reporters aboard the America, one of two U.S. aircraft car­riers that launched planes against libya. 
Kelso said he was surprised Col. Moammar Khadafy did not send up planes to counteract the U.S. strike in Tripoli and Benghazi. 
libya's ability to fly nighttime mis­sions is thought to be limited, and that is believed to be the reason American jets struck at night. 
Kelso voiced pride in the mission. 
"We don't like to see Americans 

also in libya. There was no im­mediate word of any threats against the foreigners. 
The spokesman refused to discuss damage to the French embassy and to several homes in an afiluent residential neighborhood of the libyan capital. He said U.S. officials did not yet know the extent of damage inflicted on intended military targets and would be analyz­ing after-action reports throughout the day. 
Speakes declined to say whether the military operation against libya was complete, but officials at both the White House and the Pentagon insisted numerous times yesterday afternoon that no new U.S. action was under way despite reports of new episodes of anti-aircraft fire in Tripoli. · 
Shultz, in a Tuesday morning ap­pearance on NBC's "Today" show, said: "we hope that this move will, on the one hand, shock people into seeing how serious (terrorism) is and, .on the other, bring about its diminution and a rallying ofpeople." 
SUIDIIBS!OBA&ISPACI 
lptelal4llcount for •Dll•a nu4tats 
(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
CALL 189-0888 to DII&YIIPACJI 
SILP LOCK S!OJlA&IJ orMCKI.LIJY 
816 lut Me Kinley 
Mishawaka Security Patrol C:heclu 

WSND-FM WSND-FM 88.9 88.9 
Notre Dame Public Radio begins training announcers soon for the '86-'87 school year.· If you know classical or jazz music, or would like to begin learning, then make it 
o point to stop by the WSND studios in the O'Shaughnessy tower and complete on application. 
Do not miss this opportunity to involve yourself with the great people and excellent programming of WSND-FM, Public Radio for Michiana. 
blown away in an airplane, or an Army sergeant blown away in a dis­cotheque in Berlin," Kelso said, referring to recent terrorism. "We'll certainly take pride in sending a sig­nal that our country is not going to live with indiscriminite killing ofour citizens." 
The nine airmen who spoke with reporters also expressed pride. One pilot, whose identity was withheld, said: "I think we all feel it was done in reaction to innocent people get­ting killed in Germany. It's a good response 'to what Khadafy is doing around the world." 
life returned to near-normal aboard the ship just hours after the attack. The only unusual precaution noted was extra sutveillance flights to make sure no Libyan attack was in the offing. 
Sudan 
continuedfrom page I 

Khartoum's streets to protest the 
U.S. air raids on libya. 

Marchers, who included some Libyans, also shouted for the govern­ment to close the U.S. embassy in Khartoum. They filed past the residence of U.S. Ambassador Hume Horan, with a truck filled with riot police trailing behind, officials said. 
In Washington, National Public Radio, quoting an administration source, said the attack was presumed to be a Libyan operation. It said there had been several intel­ligence reports that the libyans had been planning some sort of action against U.S. officials in the Sudan. 
Sudan was very close to the United States under the presidency of Gaafar Nimeiri but has mended fences with libya in the year since he was ousted in a bloodless coup on April 6, 1985. The United States is among Sudan's largest aid donors. 

APPhoto 
An armed American sentry watches an American F-111 bomber take off from the United States Air Force base at Lakenheath, England on Monday. Although it was not known at the time ofthis photo, the plane was boundfor the raid on Libya. Story at left. 

't! rrm :c Eras•us Books 
I~~~ r Tu~~~!~~,:,:e_ 6 ...--I block south of Jefferson & Eddy u-d • -·ofprlat boob !"-••lat. eold, •••n:laed 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
THE O'NEIL LECTURE SERIES 
SPEAKER: Dr. Koji Taira, Professor of Economics, Institute of Labor and Industrial relations, University of Illinois at Urbana­Champaign. 
[topic: "Collective Bargaining Compared: Japan and The 
United States" 
date: Thursday, April17, 1986 
time and place: 12:pm, faculty seminar board room, Hayes-Healy building. All members of the University of Notre Dame faculty are invited. 
4:15, lecture and discussion Hayes-Healy auditorium rm122 faculty, students, and the public are invited. 
Professor Taira was formerly a member of the faculty at the University of Washington and stanford University receiving his Ph.D from the Iaffer. He has also worked as a Member of the Economic Division of the lnter­natiQnal Labor Office. 
---~-~------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Observer 

'Dally Wear Lenses 
•M1sot 
•Ame,can Hvdton •Aoooft 
•Bauscn & Lerro •Cibasolr •Durasofl 
$41 .u,... 
'Tlllfetll-•• 
• 
Bauscn & Lomo Natural T.n1s 

• 
Crbasotl Colors 


'63.97,., 
"I•...... W..L_.. 
•AOSoflcon 
•Bau\cn & Lerro 
•~rV1SI()(\ 
Per~lens S67ipo •CSIT S97tpr •Du•asoll 3 S57ipo 
•Genes•s • ~~C./or 
•Hydrocurw 17S/pr 

IF YOUR BRAND IS "'OT LISTED >iE RE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL 
SEND YOU AOVQTE
r-------------,
I I 
I "'"-------rl
' o..,p..,.,, 
I · I
1 ""•w~fMI-•••~"'""'ol41ntoofto,.nl••• 1 
I :::::.·::~T-.:~·=::~";;~~··• 11 :: ------~:...-,.,:,;.:.:.:------' 
....,,,"".. I 
tv,.. p.,.., 
1 
I 
I 
I 
'"'"'' 

L I l''••+!.lllr•t I 
,, ......,.,...., I 
I I I I
I ,, ....... ,.......... I
L, ______________l 
All ltftiU tvlrlftlld l~rtl •ulhly, IIUII 
lfl avppllti '" '"' "'1'"-' ltcllfy
Ht!tt Wtlll 

FOLLOW THESES EASY STEPS 
' A('Q, •P ,rt • "'""(.. '''P ')"1d\' ·~···, 
o·..«> •c· ~,, 
• VJ•t ''f'(• ·•'I(J"lPy •..,,_ r)' 
C()f""'•t·'t•: ,.r:J ·CJ•!J •·• 11'""'0' oayt~· 
[lo·'("(, 1 ••, 
4 ~. 0\" d"'IP -lelf)'l 'o'i ~ QP•()t"'P 0 
o 
T(JPo ...... (l'f)f' 

""'.. it ..~ .....TriOlO 
Contact Len• Supply, Inc. JOUO Carter Rd. Oeve'-d, Ohio 441 39 216/241·24111 r..onlac 1 Lee~ Se~pplle•5 tor 25 ypars
,.......... ,..., 
...., I plir. UNO 
• ,.....,. 1 ....,. _z_.o_o_ 
.,., 
...............,.
,.y-'illtllef.......
-=..... 
VISA 

!PerSOI\81 CIWCkl mus1 De clel•fiG Df'IOI 10 an.prnent) 

--·------­
-
.............-......... 
••• ..k.., .. "'"'"......... file 
ft~rrMr41rl .

.............................
-,._.................. """" '" 

American protesters mark day of aid vote 
Associated Press 
Demonstrators flocked to federal 

buildings, congressional offices and 
national monuments in at kast 18 
cities Monday to protest U.S. aid to 
Nicaraguan rebds, and more than 
I80 people were arrested. 
The rallies by military veterans 
and church and anti-war groups 
were hdd on the eve of considera­
tion by the House ofRepresentatives 
on President Reagan's $100 million 
aid package. 
"The position that a nation of less 
than .3 million people of Nicaragua 
could possibly be a threat to the 
United States is ludicrous -with or 
without aid from the Soviet Union. 
or Cuba, or both," Bill Corrigan, a 
62-year-old Army veteran said at a 
Cleveland rally at a monument to 
Civil War veterans. 
The House yesterday took up Rt·agan's plan to give S70 million in military and 530 million in non­lt:thal, humanitarian aid to the U.S.­backed Contra rebels fighting Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista govern­ment. 
Last month, the House voted 222­2 I 0 against Reagan's plan, but the Republican-controlled Senate later gave 'i3-47 approval of a modified version of the package, sending it bat·k to the House. 
New York City police arrested 127 people for blocking an entrance to the major federal office building in Manhattan, and two Boston protesters were arrested on charges of trespassing at the Central Intel­
ligence Agency office. 
In Washington, D.C., police ar­
rested c; 7 people who refused to end 
a vigil near a monument to slain civil 
rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. 
in the Capitol Rotunda. 
Protesters in Atlanta greeted 
public health professionals arriving 
at the national Centers for Disease 
Control for a conference on 
violence, urging them to wear 
armbands to protest l!.S. military in­
volvement in Central America. 
About c;o anti-Contra 
demonstrators gathered outside 
City Hall in Tampa, Fla., where 
former Costa Rican Vice President 
Mario Rojas was speaking in favor of 
the aid package, and an appearance 
by a Contra official in Des Moines, 
Iowa, drew about a dozen protesters 
from a church group. 
In Boston, hundreds of demonstrators jammed offices ofthe Internal Revenue Service, forcing taxpayers to file through a police barricade to get inside, then marched through downtown to the CIA office. 
About 500 people, part of a coali­tion called Pledge of Resistance, gat­hered at the federal building in Chicago, some ofthem covered with red paint to symbolize blood. 
The Rev. Donald Schupp of Solid Rock Baptist Church, who came dressed as the Angel of Death, said the protesters were risking arrest because "we are getting into anot­her Vietnam." None was arrested. 


ATTENTION ALL GRADUATING STUDENTS 
Measurements will be taken for 
Caps and Gowns 
TODAY! Wednesday, Aprll16, 1986 
Between 9.·00--4..30:;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::: at the 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 

Wednesday, April 16, 1986 -page 5 

deCapitation? 
Senior Fabian Hurtado is measured by Ueanne Pass for his cap and gown at the Bookstore yesterday. Measurements continue today as seniors prepare for their May graduation. 
Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments 
NOWRE1V11NG FORFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Sealon) 
Office at 8lO ND Ave 
~7/256-5716 
CallAnydme 

The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devqtion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's palla to his resurrection. 
The Wav of the Cross 
Accordin{ to the Gospel of Mark 
Adaptation and Lyrics by 
Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 

WashingtonHall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25,26 
General Admission $4 
Group rates available 
Call (219) 239-5957 



' 


hands of even the sassiest female shake. 
Italian-cut blazers pushed up to the elbows at a three-quarter level are good choices. Loose and uncon· structed, with narrow, high­notched lapels, these jackets are extremely vogue. The look in men's jackets is generally focused on defining broad shoulders and nar­row waists, but for a change, we can find the elegant simplicity ofa longer, collarless jacket refreshing. Straighter in line, emphasizing 
neither the shoulders or waist, this 
look is a breath offresh air. 
Double pleated trousers of 
polished cotton, conon sheeting, or 
fine linen state something about 
your style. You are a man ofobvious 
taste. Men this season are much 
more understated than women. 
They offer an impression that is 
cool and direct... and slightly unex· 
pected. Belts and ties are more 
subtle, yet should offer a strong 
accent to the suit. Alligator skin and 
leather both come through strongly 
in this area. 

A word about color. It, probably above all else, will invite a second glance the fastest. To create a memorable image. choose a color that gets your point across. Dual tones, bronze, and fiery red are extremely prevalent colors this season emphasizing every gesture. Red in particualar is very provocative and intense. It's an aggressive color in that it raises the blood pressure and the heartbeat of the viewer. And it's incredibly chic. 
Fashion is wild. It's powerful because of what it can do and be­cause of how it can invoke reac· tions or feelings in other people. Though, as GQ's February issue so aptly put it, "You have to dress with an acceptable bow to the com­munity to which you belong," your style need not be shackled. When 
the public sees jazz, it doesn't 
clamor for just a taste. It wants to 
swallow it whole. Show off your 
jazz, baby. Show them your star 
quality. 

Accent 
not just for mustctans 

First impressions are formed very .suit, in black, white or bright, vivid quickly; and sometimes it takes a colors. This article ofclothing second, third or fourth look before provides aclean, simple we can even get to the starting groundwork that makes a good base block with someone. In those few but doesn't dominate your whole seconds when observers would look. To this, add a slim straight classify you as type A, Bor C, it's skirt with a hemline that hits just 
N
MAUREEN FARLEY important to rock them with a look above the top curve or below the features writer that will make you absolutely unfor­bottom curve of the calf. Skinny gettable. This season's fashion line ribbed capri pants and stirrup pants o one can miss it. It's absolutely offers a wide variety of options to in sophisticated, flattering fabrics unmistakeable, unusually do exactly that. are a basic part of the wardrobe that 
theatrical and extremely alive. Not also shouldn't be overlooked. 
everyone has it by a long shot, but if Women's fashion, as oflate, has Paired with a crunchy, thick 
you've got it, you're going places, plainly been influenced by our fave sweater that hits at the hip line or 
baby. No two ways about it. femme fatale, Madonna. For those of below, these leggings look stun­It'sjazz. That state of mind and you who might pale at the thought ning. attitude that lets others know in no or perhaps turn a delicate shade of One item that is still holding its uncertain terms that you are some­green, maintain control for a mo­ground with more flash than ever thing worth a second glance. That's ment. If you look carefully, you will before, often studded with gold or what we want much ofthe time find that the current style is not silver, appearing in knit or jersey, isn't it? We wish people could in­Madonnaper se.lt is more a subtle body clinging but not skintight, is stantly pick up on how witty, sense of her style that pervades this the sleeveless turtleneck body charming and absolutely extraordi­season's fashions, lending a feeling dress. Because its very simplicity nary we are. But much to our dis­offemininity without cliches to the demands a strong accent, glass may, we find that's not the way the hottest looks available. stones to adorn the wrists and neck game is played. The starting point is the body are a necessity with this look. More 
and more, we'll be seeing a new 
twist to revealing the body. In fact, 
anywhere but the front is fair game. 
Blatently scooped-out sides at the midriff, showcasing of the shoulders and gleamingly bared backs com­mand immediate attention. With this last look, fasten the biggest, 
flashiest brooch to the back straps 
or to the waistline at the small of the back for an eye-catching accent. 
Lace, ifyou haven't noticed, is stealing the show. (Thank you. Oh, thank you, Madonna, for lace.) It's elegant, sophisticated, soft, roman­tic and creates a barely-there look that is undeniably enticing. It is, without a doubt, the last word in femininity. There are no guidelines here. Lace can be worn almost anywhere, almost anytime in almost any way and look utterly stunning. 
Now, just as Madonna has tipped the fashion scales in her favor, there walks a male counterpart who has managed to alter the style of men's dress in a way no other could have done. Man or myth? Don johnson of Miami Vice. From him, men have found a look that will make the 


Book's humor, satire not for everyone 
ANDY KINNEY some points were simply over­first, but the joke loses its vigor spares no aspect of the Roman with a Catholic background who ft!Qtures writer worked. 
when repeated as many times as it Catholic Church, not even views of can take a joke. The cartoon work is ''~tholics, an Unauthorized, is. 
God andjesus. excellent, and the reading is easy. 
Ulnapproved, Illustrated like a pair a tight jeans, Parts of"Catholics" may offend For those who are sensitive, it 
Guide" takes a comical yet stern "Catholics" will fit only a selected some Catholics, because Detorie I recommend this book to those might be better to pass by this one. look at what hopefully is not a typi­number. Those who are Catholic cal Catholic upbringing. and went through Catholic grade­
Author and illustrator Rick school can appreci'\te the 
Books

Catholics 
by Rick Detorie 


Detorie describes the ins an outs of growing up and living as a Catholic through cartoon frames, subjects ranging from private grade-school education to views ofheaven and hell. 
The book as a whole is quite funny, but after reading through it, I had mixed feelings. Emphasis was placed more on the oppressive nature ofCatholicism rather than the quirks ofthe faith. It poked fun at some aspects of the Church with aggression, pervading the book with common themes which at references made to beliefs and 
experiences. The audience is quite limited. I found few people with different backgrounds who could understand much of the book wit­hout my explanations. 
As I said before, much of the book is quite humorous. Many of Detorie's references to the Church and grade school fit well es­tablished stereotypes about Cat­holic life. But a predominance of the book's subject matter is just that -stereotypical. The nun who punishes her students is funny at 
~i~~~_()__i__Jl__t________________~w~ed~n~esd~ay~,A~pr~il~16~,1~98~6-~p~age~7 
Dreams can come true, even for 'normal' people 
Chicago has always been a city of dreams for me. When I was little, I would play ball in my front yard and dream of my heroes: Fergie Jenkins, Ernie Banks, Billy Williams and other mt·mbcrs of the hopeless and helpless Chkago Cubs. When I first started playing hockt·y I wanted to be Tony Esposito and lead the Chicago Blackhawks to a Stanley Cup over thost· drt·aded Montrt•al Canadicns. 
Mike Wilkins here, there and back 
In the four and a halfyt·ars I have been here, I have taken several trips to Chicago, visiting monstrous Chicago Stadium or paying homage to the Wrigley field shrine. last sum­mer Ispent a good dt·al of my time driving into Chkago to sec my girlfriend. I even came this dose to going to school there. But none of my trips to Wrigley field was more enjoyable than my most recenl one. 
Two weeks ago I wa.~ lucky enough to see drt·am in Chicago, It wasn't Ryne or Dennis Savard or one of my other modc:rn heros taking their team to glory. In­it was a neighbor of mine, dancing her way through a drea113 of her own. I went to 
see, ofall things, the ballet. A neighbor of mine from home had just made the Joffrey Ballet and was performing at Chicago's beautiful Civic Opera House. I had never been to a bal­let there before and I saw this as the perfect opportunity to sec my friend dance, visit my favorite city and pick up a little culture all at the same time. 
I must admit, I was more than a little skepti· cal about going to the ballet. For someone who's used to guzzling beers and lighting for standing room only scats in the second bal­cony at the stadium, the idea of rubbing el­bows with all those artsy people sipping~ champagne in their velvety chairs seemed rat­her strange. But I've always gone to Chicago to watch dreamers chase their dreams and this time was no different. I wanted to go this time to watch a friend whose dream had come true. 
My friend had been dancing for as long as I can remember. She left home before she was in high school, going to ballet schools to try to become the dancer she'd always dreamed of being. She's had to leave family and friends be· hind in favor ofdistant cities and strange faces. She's been slowed by injuries that threatened her career and stunned by teachers who said she would never make it. But now she has made it and she's doing what she's always wanted to do. Not many of us can say that. That alone was enough to get me to go to the ballet. 

Most of us are here pursuing some sort of goal, but at one time or another we all chased dreams. Somewhere along the line, we've had to replace our dreams with goals. Some of us arc still after those dreams: dreams of becom­ing a doctor, a scientist or maybe even a lawyer. But most of our dreams were less realistic and we've had to abandon them as reality has taken over. It's not necessarily bad to replace your dreams with more realistic goals, virtually all of have had to make that transitition. But it is a very special person who gets the opportunity to really pursue his or her dream and then be able to bring that dream to life. 
As I watched my friend dance, I thought of the long hours she had to put in and the frustration and pain that accompanies the development of a God-given gift. And I thought about a friend who graduated from here last year who is trying hard to become a writer and the patience and dedication she has to have to stick with it. In some small way I was envious of these two friends, each with a dream within her grasp while our own dreams elude the rest ofus. But in a much bigger way l was happy for them, happy to the point of sharing in the pride they must feel each day their dreams continue to become reality. 
After the performance, my mom and I took my newest hero out for a drink. It was kind of how I imagine it would be to take Rync 
P.O. BoxQ 

Fasting a way to test strength of convictions 
A frit-nd of mim·confrontt·d me with a qucs­
ion this past weekend: llow is that you arc 
ying, while a visitor from South Africa, 
. Basil van Rensburg, and other students 
fa.'lting ·for the just cause ofdivestment? 
I am still searching for an answer. Can you 
clp me with one? 
Whitt· you arc at it, there's another question 
which I seek insights. When we arc con­
with an issue, we reason il out, try un­dt·rstanding the issue and then take a stand on tht· issut·. IIow much we stand by our convic­tions remains to be seen. 
Fasting is one way of testing the strength of 
r t:onvictions. Espedally a total fast: living only on water. Wht·n our head begins to ache and we begin to feel uncomfortable, then we question our convictions in a new light, at a pt·rsonal level. It is only the convinced who will continue. 
So I wonder. how is that I set.· around me only the advocates of divt:stment, fasting? What about tht· others on this issue? Arc they as serious about their convictions? 
A.'i for the rest of us, the living dead, we who havt· eyes that do not see, cars that do not hear and mouths that do not speak, let us con­stantly remind ourselves, that we have lost our innocence long ago. 
BruceP. Corrie Notre Damegraduate student 
Value of coed housing evident in London 
DearEditor: 
We were fortunate enough to participate in the Arts and Letters London Program last semester. We were also the first Notre Dame students to be a part of the University's coeducational housing arrangement. Mike Ferrick's comments in the March I 4 Observer article on coed housing options offered by foreign studies programs are deceptive for those who did not experience the situation. In particular, the statement, "Guysstayed over in girls' rooms and girls stayed over in guys' rooms," is grossly misleading. 
First, the coed situation was implemented only out of necessity: the 25-occupant Residence and 65-occupant West Two Hotel did not allow segregation of men and women. Although the larger West Two was divided ac­cording to floor, parietals were technically impossible to enforce. lack of enforcement, however, did not mean lack ofresponsible be­havior. 
Among the many benefits of the London Program was the abiiity to develop close and lasting friendships as we learned to depend on one another in our new surroundings. Toget­her we coped with the challenges living in Europe presented--preparing meals, commut­ing, banking and travelling safely and wisely. Our shared experience taught us respect and consideration for one another. 

Because we acted out of consideration, we did not abuse the privilege ofsuch a living ar­rangement. Instead, we took special care to develop a close-knit community of men and women through liturgies, shared meals, and late-night conversations. 
Father Art Wheeler, rector of the Residence, commented: "I really did have the impression that the people in last semester's program had handled the living situation responsibly and maturely. So often students said to me that they considered the living situation to be healthy and that the adminis­tration's fears about cohabitation were un­founded. I'm afraid that, whatever the intentions of those interviewed, the article gives the opposite impression." 
Ferrick was correct in stating that "everybody was pretty positive" about the coed dormitory. The reason he cites, ef­fectively non-existent parietals, is not why we found the coed living arrangement so satisfy­ing. The mutual trust that staff and students enjoyed helped make the London semester perhaps the best in our Notre Dame career. We hope that future students will have the op-Sandberg out for a beer after the game. Here we were, sitting at a table in a bar in Chicago talking to someone who hundreds of people had just paid good money to see perform. I listened intently to every word she said: stories of where she had been and where she was going next. I asked her questions about living in New York City and about the pressures ofdancing at this new level. She was every bit the professional, every bit the con­queror of a dream. 
But as she sat there behind a big bowl of salad and a mug of beer, she was still the little girl across the street. Her pulled-back hair revealed the innocence in her face, a face that could just as easily have been here at Notre Dame or down at Indiana or across the street in Fort Wayne. She was just every bit as friendly and every bit a.'l normal as she was when she was just a kid dreaming of being right where she is today. 
1guess that's what makes her so special to me and that's what has won my admiration for her and my friend the writer. She is just a nor­mal girl doing what all us other normal people have always wanted to be doing: making a dream come true. 
Mike Wilkins is a Notre Dame law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
portunity to enjoy the same privileges. 
Linda Quinn MicheleMarchand Dianne McBrien joe Greco 
Editor's Note: This letter was co-signed by 50 other students who were in london last semester. 
Disciplinary policy biased for athletes 

DearEditor: 
It is too bad the two students who were ex­pelled from the University last semester for breaking p;u-ietals in Lyons Hall didn't have Lou Holtz to come to their defense and tell the administration, "Let me just say this: What they did was a bad act, but they are not bad people." 
And since the issue here is "bad acts" and not "bad people," which is the 'more serious offense: beingcaught in theroom ofa member of the opposite sex after the bewitching hour of midnight, or sending a man to the hospital and destroying property while out on a drunken spree? At Notre Dame the answer depends on whether or not the perpetrators arc football players. 
jean O'Bryan Notre Damestudent 
•
RAYMONOP. IXJVOVAN, ANNE 81/RFORI}, .W1t5/rl. 8866'3, JOHNM~ t:JONAW 

I. 
HOVOC, M!Cff/Ja. !<.AR&M, 


JOHN HORTON... " 
\ 
Quote of the day 

"For middle-age hackers, reluc­tant has-beens and romantics, ... the Masters' tournament Sun­day was a sign that sometimes very good things happen to very good people .•. Jack is back!" 
Ben Brown USA Today 
Apri/14, 1986 
General Board 

Editor·in-Chief. . ...... Joe Murphy Bustness Manager Eric Scheuermann Managing Edttor. . .. Kevin Becker Controller . . . .... Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor. . . Scott Bearby Productton Manager . . . .... Chris Bowler 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
Sports Editor . . . . ........ Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager ... . . James Carroll 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Accent Editor. ... . . ... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager. . . Anne M.Culligan s1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. II does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor... . ... Margie Kersten Photography Manager. . .. Drew Sandier policies of the admin1strat1on of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor. . Frank Lipo Systems Manager . . David Thornton and ob1ectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor .. . .. Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Edttor. ....... . . ... Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
The Observer Wednesday, April16, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Any SM C varsity athleteinterested in applying for president ofthe Student Athletic Council may pick up an application form at Angela Athletic Facility. The deadline for returning forms is today. -The Observer 
Dancin' Irish tryouts will be held Friday, April 18, from 6 to 9 p.m., with the final cut to be made Sunday, April 20, from 3 to 6 p.m. in gym 2 at the ACC. All tryouts and clinics are open to the public.-The Observer 
The NO windsurfing clubwill meet tonight at 7 in the Lafortune Little Theater. Anyone interested in learning how to windsurf is invited. For more information call Kevin Laracey at 283· 1148. -The Obseruer 
The An Tostal slam dunk contestwm hold sign-ups today from 3 to S p.m. at the Lafortune information desk. The event takes place April 23 at 2 p.m. and both men and women are invited to participate at either the nine-foot or 10-foot leveL For more information call Dan Sullivan at 283-1184.-The Obsen'er 
In American League baseball action yester­day, the New York Yankees downed Cleveland, 6-2, and the game between Detroit and Chicago was called off because of snow in the Windy City. In the National League, Montreal beat the Cubs, 4-3 in 11 innings, Houston downed San Francisco, 8-3, Cincinnati topped Atlanta, S·3, and Pittsburgh and Philadelphia were postponed by rain. -AP 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 

Ed White, who did not even attempt a shot for Managerial Units, found some consolation in the loss. 
"We wanted to lose the game," said White. "Our motive for losing was to get a better draft pick for next year." 
Obvoiusly, White has confused this year's Bookstore Tournament with the NBA's final standings ­needless to say, a very common mistake. Good luck next year Mr. White. 
Yesterday's hot shooter was Mike Chiak who was 1-of-18 from the floor as Hiawatha's Boys lost to the musical trio Red Red Wine, 21-6. 'Where are the Basoners?' was the question of the day. Four Libians ad­vanced to the third round by gaining a forfeit victory over the no-show Basoners. In a stellar performance, Mike Thorp scored seven baskets and grabbed 1 S rebounds as Green Weenies defeated Too White to Win, 21-12. 
Today, the Fun Bunch, a highly­seeded team, will play The Hammers on Bookstore Court 9 at 6:1 5 p.m.. On Bookstore Court 10 at 4:45p.m., Tequilla White Lightning will face Five Times Longer. Today's weather, unpredictable. 
More second-round results ••• 
Yuterct.y•a Reeulta lltepan4 
Stepan 1 Grace Defenders over Sphinxter by 10 Mishawaka Experience over Team Cheese by 12 Scrappin Yaps over I Don't Use Your Bonz by 3 Juice-Meister over Blood. Sweat & Salamanders by Showtime over Yank My Doodle by 3 16 Is That Chocolate in Your Underwear? over The Cute T earn Many Martoonies over Masters of Gash by 16 One & 4 Towers of Power by 2 
Open Loop Shooters over Like Hot Pies by 14 
Stepan 2 Corby's West over Katie & Merry Pranksters by 3 Who's Next over Long Duck Dong by 10 One Way over Jason & the Axe Wounds by 15 Wheelchair & 4 Limbs over No ... Bud Light by 6 
Stepan3 See the Bungee over You're Interesting by 4 Ptayng in the Sun over Home Boys by 9 Belt Mistletoe over 5 Guys Still Worse by 5 Minahoonies over Loose Balls by 9 
Stepan 5 Small Rodent Stimulation over Managerial Units by 8 Emotionally Exhausted over Capt. nmbo by 12 Bud Melman over The Untouchable by 6 Much More Manhood over Big Blue Vein by 13 
Stepan 6 Painlul Discharge over Auto Mechanics by 11 Green Weenies over Too White to Win by 9 4 Labias over The Basoners by forfeit Horn's Bunch over Hiller Youth by 4 
Bookatore Fat Back over Alrino Tadpoles by 10 
The games go on 
Stepan 1 5:30-Steer. Queer & a 6 Pack of Beerv. Spiders Eat Their Mates 
6:15 ·Breakfast Heads v. Tylenol. Challenger & 3 Ot· her Deadly Capsules 
Stepan 2 5:30-4 Quarter Pounders & an All-American v. The Expendables 6:15· Murphy's Lawv. Mr. Bic. Mr. Peanut&30ther. 
Stapen3 5:30-Leone·s Stallions v. Unusual Muscle Develop­ment 6:15-Enough Macho Meat v. Trabercers 
Stepan4 5:30-Sons of Thunder v. Cayanahmbies 
6:15 • 4 Shimmering Molds v. The Pride is Back 
Stepan 5 5:30-The Brickshooters v. Penguins in Bondage 6:15· The Ptebesv. Hinkley's Tail Gunners 
Stapen6 
5:30 ·Brendan Murphy's Jewish Christmas Special v. ... Lonely Bunch of Coconuts 6:15-Ftanner Vice v. Nebbish 
Bookatore9 
4:00 • Spooheads v. Morning Stiffies 
4:45 ·We Can't Jam v. Mookie Wilson 6:15· Fun Bunch v. The Hammers 
Lingerie With Tuna Stains over Desmund Tutu by 6 Air Monyer over D1gger Phelps by 17 Goldrick over Tough Schutz by 6 
Bookatore 10 
Clueless over Ricky Nelson by 7 Beer Fuatulence over Good News & Bad News by 7 Still Uncoachable over 4 Sinners & a Monk by 8 
Lyona11 Destination Stepan over Lost in Length by 13 Armed & Dangerous over Cumb and Crash by 4 MBA SL"s over FrankL. .. by 7 Red Red Wine over Wiawatha"s Beys by 15 
Lyona 12 4 Pussy-Whipped over Lay Down by 3 Rocky's 5 over Spiderman by 13 Poodly Chats over Tri-State by 14 Embarass1ng Stains over Kegels by 13 
Bookatore 10 4:00-Skywatker v. K"s Swim Instructors 
4:45 • 5 Times longer v. Tequila White Lightning 6:15-OD. 3 Throats & Some Dudev. SOH Hot Hand­sOON£ 
lyona11 4:00-The lmcompretics v. 5 Ethiopians 
4:45 ·Well Hung SOBs v. Richard Cranium 
6:15-Airborn Express v. It's the First Time for Us Lyona12 
4:00 ·What the F v. Grandmaster FlaSh 4:45-Unprintable v. The Hitmen 6:15-Scltillating Inducements v. Packersnots 
lht• ()/>.otterr·e,-'-c,trc.: l).tnH· ,,tfu.t· lcu..•ltt·d ~111 till tlur,t fl,u,r ••I l.tl••fltliH "-llldt·nt ( cntt·r Jt t t·pt' t l,l,"o!lil"d •.1\h t:rt 1'111g Ire •Ill q .1 111 Ulll d 1 I' 111 \lc llhl.l\ lhruugh I fH.I.J\ I })(• t ,,.,(.,., ~·r .....11111 \1.tn ... I Jt1H t ,,,,,Ill d I Ill tiH tlllrd nllt If I,, ll.tg)o!.lf ( I tllc.:gc: ( l'lllc:r ·'' l c:pt' l '·""''"'d-. rr. Hll I .! '\II I' 111 IIIli d "" I' 111 ,,, Ill d.l\ thcn1gh lntiJ\ l)tJdltrH '''' llt"d.n tl.t,,llud.. ,.. \ p111 \II ,l.''"'''"d' fllll'l Ill· prc.·pJ!d nt lu r 111 P' r.... t•ll 11T In m.nl ( ll.u g' ,, 111"" nr-. P' r II\" l h.tr.&l
Classifieds 
lt.T.., d..i\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 
234-11117. 
Wordprocesai~ Typing 
272-8827 
Typing/Wordprocesaing 2n-a131 
PR<>TYPE -15 yra. exp. student & law papers. resumes, dissertations. 2n­5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MAS. COKER. 233-7009. 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for a week at Fort Walton Beech, South Padre Island and Daytone Beach! Hurry. cal Sunchue Toura for more information tol free 1·800.321-5911 TODAY! When that lalt test is over ...Break for The Beech with Sunchue! 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16.040 • $59.2301yr. Now Hiring. Cal 80S.687­6000 Ext. A-9834 for current feda-al ~11. 
SPRING IALEff Seve up to 50 !*"cent Apr.17~-ST. FRANCIS IHOPPE­behind Fi11111111 ....,_. Cen., Open 10 Lm. • 5p.m. Mon.·a.t. 
~..·~···············-.......................................... 
CLA811F1ED8 FOR THE NEXT PU8LISHING DAY WILL BE AC. CEPTED UNTIL 2 P.M. DAILY. 
The REVOLUTIONARY Pat Giblin Band Fridily • Bellllx Aria Ball -Architecture Building 
...................................:............................ 
LOST/FOUND I 
................................................................ 
LOST: LAST FRIDAY. APRIL 4TH. AT THE AMERICANA DURING THE HOLY CROSS SYA, 1 BLUE BACK-PACK CONTAINING IMPORTANT ITEMS. IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT MARY AT 284·5176 A.S.A.P. 
................................................................ 
FOUND:CANON CAMERA CASE AF35M at the SENIOR FORMAL. CALL JOHN at 287-6518. 
LOST:MINOLTA FLASH CASE AT SENIOR FORMAL. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 287-6518. 
LOU HOLTZ didn't take my umbrella by accident from the SOUTH DINING HAUL alter dinner on 4-14. but mayba YOU did?? It Iabiack. it' a a T otetl, itia automatic and it has a brown handle. If by chance you have miatakenly taken my umbrela. PLEASE drop It off at LOST&FOUND on the aecond floor of LaFortune or call2298 before It raina on my hud! Thank You. 

LOST IN THE VICINITY OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET ON ST. RD. 23 • A WALLET WITH MANY MEMBERSHIP CARDS. VISA CARD, DRIVER'S LICENSE. ETC.. $50 REWARD FOR FINDER. RETURN TO MSGR. FRANCIS SAMPSON, CORBY HALL. NOTRE DAME. IN 46556. 
llaiNG-CROSS fountain pen; initiala EMG. The value of the pen tranacende any monetary conaiderationa. If you took It, 1'1 buy you your own when you return it. 234-7350 
LOST: BlUE WOOL JACKET FROM PARTY AT 814 CORBY SATURDAY NIGHT. JUST GOT IT FOR CHRISTMAS AND LIKE IT A LOT. IF YOU TOOK IT PLEASE CALL ME AND I WON'T BE MAD! REWARD. CALL MARK 1765. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME JACKET WITH WHITE LETTERS ON BACK. LOST ON WEDNESDAY 4/9 AT STEP­HEN COURTS AFTER BOOKSTORE GAME. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3280. 
LOST:GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH (WITH SCRATCHED CAYS­TAL).UNFOATUNATELY WAS LOST QUITE SOMETIME AGO.(I HOPE YOU HAVEN'T GROWN TOO ATTACHED TO IT).POSSIBLY LOST AT ACC SWIM POOL.REWAAD(AND NO QUES­TIONS). PLEASE CAUL 3289.ASK FOR BRIAN IF FOUND. 
FOR RENT 

6 BDAM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272­
6306 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
SemHurniahed hou.. good neighbor­hood cal alter 4 -25S.3684 2n-3604 
Summer School Rental . Large 9 room houae, 4 bdrma, carpeta & drapee. Ne. campus. Fumiahed or unfumiahed. 272­8185. 
NEED ONE OR TWO ROOMMATES FOR NEXT YEAR. IN A HOUSE OFF OF PORTAGE AVE NEAR MARTINS. $65 OR $87/MO PLUS UTILITIES. CALL ROB (x1245) OR ROB (x1n2) 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS Apartmenta available lor Fai'BI 
llllonth~ 
272-1441 

HOUSE FOR RENT in Leeper Part< May 15-Aug 22. $310/mo. uti!. inc. Ideal for 2. 287-4024 
WANTED 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040..$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Cltll 1· 805-6117-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current feda-allist. 
WANTED: RIDE OR RIDERS TO PENN STATE. 4/18-4/20. CALL MIKE AT 1528. 
SUMMER ROOMMATE needed.Brendenw"dApts.callx15451ate. 
WANTED Uaed woman's bicycle at a reasonable price. c./1 Betty at 239-5604 
Used Apple I /e equipment. Galt Mart< at 233-8803 and leave a meuege. Thanks. 
I WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOR TWO (2) COIHIIENCEMENT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL BRUCE AT 4501 ANYTIME. 
Wanted riders to Georgetown/Leaving Thura.12:30 Staying thru Sunday Call Missy 283-3n2 or Carol 289-3486 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT. 2n-0417. EVES. BEFORE 10. 
NEED ONLY ONE TICKET TO COM­MENCEMENT WIUL PAY $$$$$ CALL PAULAT1701 • 
Want to rent a furnished apartment near NDforthesummer. PleaaecaJIJodi4544. 
..... Roommate In CHICAGO alter gracl. Cell Bob X1743 
................................................................ 
NEED RIDE TO TOLEDO/CLEVELAND ALONG 1-80: 4/18-4/20 C-'LL MONIKA 3n2 
wA"i.i:rEo:·R"Io"E:rociN.ciNN"A;:i-4/i·:;;:,. 
4118 CALL MARY LEE at 1124 
FOR SALE 
seii".vouii··c-L.As"S'.EiOOi<s..FoR".$$$ 
AND CREDIT! Clff notes available. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave . 233-2342 
78·r;;;,~·a;;;·£;:~;;g:·;;;~~i-;n:·~ 
condition. 272-9531. 
Apple I I I Syatem Complete with 256K RAM. Ctock/catendar. numeric keypad. monitor. and bulh-in disk drive. System in­dudes a Service Contract covering all parta and labor through Saptembar 1986, Haba Systema I I I E-Z Pi-. integrated word procetiSOr. spreadaheet and <liltabue. Apple Accea I I I communica­tions package and 4 expansion lfota. Mu.tNCrifice at $700. Add a ProFile 5 Mb hard disk and interface for a package price of $1.100. ProFile and interface separately for $500. For more information or a demonstration call Mart< at 239-5600 days or 233·8803 evenings. 
FOR'SALE·:··;·g;;a··F·~d·p-i;.t~·-4·-~:·2"·d·;, 
hatch Best offer: call Jim ]1405 (alter 10pm) 

1175 Pacer-Many new parta,body good.reliable transportation:$400 or best offer 1287-6656 
FOR SALE·SANSUI 55 WATT STEREO RECEIVER MODEL 881. B.t.C BELT DRIVE TURNTABLE W/SHUAE M95ED CARTRIDGE, O'SUULIVAN FUUL RACK SYSTEM WI RECORD STORAGE. AND 4 AL TEC LANSING SPEAKERS. SOUNDS GREAT. CALL MIKE-1643 OR MARK AT 262·2023 FOR MORE INFO 
1981 Dataun 210 high milage great gas milage $2000 or beet offer Celt 283-1724 
1968 AMC Ambasaador. automatic, VB, good transportation. $600 or best offer. Galt 287-5235 alter 5 p.m. or anytime on weekends. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER r. UOUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A,M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
Novene to St. Jude 0 Holy St. Jude, apostle and martyr, great in virtue and rich in rnirades, near kinsman of Jesus Christ. Faithful interces­sor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need. To you I have recourse and from the depth of my heart. I humbly beg whom God has give such power to come to my al8iltance. Help me in my urgent petition. In return. I promise to make your neme known and your cause to ba inkvoked. Say: three Our Fat­hef8, three Hail Marys. end three Gtorias tor nine consecutive dilys. Publication must ba promised. St. Jude pray for us and all who invoke your name. This novena has never been known to fail. 
Would you too like to wish DAVE STEP· HENITCH a happy 22nd birthday? Then just give him a call at 1931! He'd love to talk to you 
OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS SPRING DANCE THURS. APRIL 17! $10/COUPLE OR $5/PERSON TIX MON-THUAS lot FLOOR LaFORTUNE! 
Hungry? CaN YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houta: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1 am Saturday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday. 
l.AAURA-Do you know what Sunday is? 
ROCHESTER 
OR 
ALONG 1-110 EAST 
RIDERS NEEDED 
Leave Friday, Aprl118 end return on Sun­
day Call Pat 1222 or John 1240 
FRANK ('Magnum") from ALUMNI--I ap­preciate your "honesty" this weekend-and I'm sorry you've had difficulty coming. but don't wait for me. Its something your"e just going to have to do by yourself. 
Tera, Lisa. Bart:> & Amy-We're sorry! Thanks·for putting up with us! love, Chris & Melissa 
The air is PUNGENT and thick. Some­where in the MILKY Way. a volleyball team prepares for game 3. Don't try to ANALyze it, because it is no SECRET. I ONly want to wlah my tMm the but ol luck. Sully, K.J., Fae, Rockln', Coco, and my roomlu (N.K., D.C. and E.B.) 
4:45 Training Table, 5:00 Game WE WANT MUD! 
We do aUIIIova 
you MacKIIaf!l 

..................................................:............. 
KEVIN HERBERT was Born in the USA 20 years ago. Happy 
.............~~-~-~-~!-~~-~?.~.?...~~-~---·········· 
David Ruanak I'd realty like to meet you. you could at least say hi. I've a pink sweater on. an admirer 
Congrats on the summer job Lis! Super news. Watch out St. Louis! love ya. Maria 
Have a real Zarty Birthday Dave'! 
Happy 22nd. Dave Love. Deb 

GUILD-PREPARE FOR 'WALLY DAY". WALLY WILL NOT SURVIVE. GONZO 
Established Band, Into New Music ­Looking for a Guitarist and Drummer for Next Year. CALL MIKE 1778 
IRISH GARDENS...IAISH GAR· 
DENS.. .IAISH GARDENS We are now 
accepting applications for FALL 
EMPLOYMENT' Come by now and pick 
up an application. We're in the basement 
of laFortune.You must ba on financial 
aid. 
""Life isn't fair. You have to play the cards you're dea~ ... Kate and Allie. April 14 
Steve H-Dabits are good, Credits are bad. You're the best teacher I've ever had I want to see you And if you want to see me, Give me a caM whenever you're free AnneC 
Can't wait to personally wish you a happy 22nd, Dave. 
Love, Usa 

MEGAN IN MEXICO: WE MISS YOU WAITE US! LOVE, TARA AND SILVIA 
Logan Volunteers: Don't forget about the campout this weekend-9:00 Saturday morning to 2:00 Sunday. Bring blankets and a pillow. Daring new volunteers welcome. 
MARIA FROM CAMPUS VIEW-I must have said the right thing. II got you upset and off of my back. Thanks for the publicity--good or bad-! love it! DON'T MESS WITH THE FELLAS! 
ND-SMC STUDENTS LAST CAll FOR SUMMER TRAVEL: LONDON PROGRAM (MAY 21-JUNE 
20) TRAVEL IN IRE., ENG., SCOT., AND FRANCE. ROME PROGRAM (JUNE 1S. JULY 14) TRAVEL IN FRANCE. GERM .• SWIT.• AND ITALY. FOR FURTHER INFO CALL DR. A. A. BLACK 284-4460 OA272-3726 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KEVIN HERBERT From the girls of 4th floor Augusta 
SAINT LOUIS CLUB ELECTIONS TONIGHT 5 P M. OLD COULEGE 
OH. THANKS TO THOSE WHO WENT TO THE CLUB DANCE PIZZA WILL BE SERVED AT MEETING 
Paul Messier, give it up. no one thinks you are anything special except your own big ego. 
I want my pictures back!! 
JACK IS BACKII 

THE BEAR IS OUT OF HIBERNATION!! 
WHO 18 THE GREATEST GOLFER OF ALL TIME? WAS THERE ANY DOUBT? JACK IS BACK!II 
JUNIORS JUNIORS "LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM" PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND 
PLACEMENTSER~CES 
7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 118 NIEUWLAND 
SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS IN~TED. 
Happy Blrthclily Dave Stephenltch 
Our favorite CPA. Love. Breen Phi/Nps 
JUNIORS JUNIORS "LEARN HOW TO FILL OUT YOUR PROFILE FORM." PAUL REYNOLDS OF CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES 
7:00 p.m. TONIGHT. 118 NIEUWLAND 
SCIENCE HALL. ALL MAJORS INVITED. 
PETER WALSHE-Senior Fellow 
Thanks St. Jude. You've helped me a lot. L.G.M. 
tat SOURCE BANK PRESENTS The 1986 N-Car Sale NO ACC April 18th "85 BMW 318 • $14,700 ·as Celebrity· $9,250 "86 CuUasa Ciera • $10.800 "86 Pontiac 6000 LE-$10,744 For more Into. 
C.M llarlo Manta 236-2201 
I CAN'T WAIT TILL I GET TO AUSTIN I 
THANK YOU St. Jude. I know that this would not have happened if it wasn't lor you. This novena has NEVER failed. 
I hope you have alantasffc 22ndbirthday DAVE STEPHENITCH Love, Usa 
THERE WILL BE A CRIME IN THE NIGHT. catch aN the action aa the O.C. Crime maku their return Wacln-y night, 9PM C.rtler field. 
Thank you St. Jude. 
JUGGUNG CLUB Anyone interested In joining juggling dub next fall. caH Bill x1190. No experience needed. 
The Observer Wednesday, April 16, 1986-page 9 
Knight sees five fouls, three-point rule as ills 
Associated Press cncc at Vanderbilt l lnivcrsity, where 
he was to address a dinner gathering. 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Indiana coach Bobby Knight complained yesterday lie also criticized the three-point about what he perceives as college shot. basketball's ills, including the three­"I honestly think that rule helps point shot and antiquated foul rules. people who have good shooters and 
"If tht·rc wt·rc one thing that I hurts people who don't have good would t·hangc in tht· stmcturc of shooters. Consequently, I don't par­collcgc baskt•tball, it would ticularly like to sec a mlc go into ef­probably bt· the: foul situation. I fect that doesn't have thesame effect don't think the players should foul on all teams," he said. out," said Knight. 
lie: said collcgc basketball allowed Next season will mark the first four fouls pt·r player until the I 9-iOs, timt· that the three-point rule has when a lifth foul was allowed before been uscd by all college teams. Until 
an athlctt: fouled out of a game. now, various conferences had ex­
"Wt·'ve gone: 40 ycars with live perimented with it. The Big Ten fouls. At tht· samt· timt·, with the Conference had the three-point shot same numbcr of fouls, the (abilities two seasons ago, and Indiana guard of) athktcs who play the game have Steve Alford was one of the league's 
im:rcased tremendously," he said. best outside shooters. 
"Thert·'s a point wht·rc I think wc'vc not kept up with what's hap­Knight also said college teams are pening in the game. I would give playing too many games. another foul. at least a sixth foul, to "You are talking about Duke just tht· game and maybe t•ven any foul having played 40 games. It could be al'ter that committed by that pcrson possible for a team ... to play a mini­was an automatic two-shot foul," mum of 43 games. I just think that's Knight said during a news confer-too much." 
Winningest Teams in the 1980s 
Source: Sports Features Syndicate Observer Graphic 

w  L  
1. Orioles*  519  395  .568  
2. Yankees  516  400  .563  
3. (tie) Dodgers• 508  413  .552  
3. (tie) Tigers  507  411  .552  
4. Royals  491  422  .538  
5. Cardinals  489  423  .536  
6. Phlllies  485  432  .529  
7.Expos  480  436  .524  
"1 World Title  



Pre-Weekend Celebration! [ LEE'S Ribsl Thurs., April 17th 
featuring The Rhythym Methods 
'The only campus band approved by the Pope' 
$2 cover charge 
$1 Molsens 
(21 1.0. required)
$1 Wine Coolers Sponsored by Overseas Development Network 
Umpire Ken Kaiser leaves no doubt about the call -reliever Scott Bailes, right, in a game earlier in the as Detroit Tiger runner Kirk Gibson (23) slides week. See Sports Briefs on page 8 for yesterday's homesafelyaftera wildpitch by ClevelandIndians major league baseball results. 
Linebacker coach adds experience 
ND is not new to Schottenheimer 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI are basically similiar in ability at this improve on a daily basis. We will Assistant Sports Editor level," he said. "Notte Dame has a evaluate the people who will be a different type of kid who is more factor in the fall. A committment to excellence. 
committed to academic (pursuits), "I am optimistic about this up­This well known phrase is often as­
but that is not meant to lessen the coming season," Schottenheimer sociated with the L.A. Raiders of the 
academics in the LSU football adds "The challenge will be a diffi­NFL, but it also best describes the at­
program in any way. cult schedule, but the fun part titude that Notre Dame outside "When we played Notte Dame, should be playing." linebacker coach Kurt Schotten­
we were aware of its great tradi· Schottcnheimcr has been as­sociated with great defensive minds during most of his career, includingSpring 
Bill Arnspargt·r (inventor of the famous "54" defense of the Miami

Football 

Dolphins) and his brother Marty,'86 head coach of the Cleveland Browns. heimcr na:. •or me Irish this season. "Outside ofthe fact that I am a bet­
Schottenheimer is no stranger to ter golfer and am better looking than the Notre Dame football program. Marty, we arc very much alike," said Before joining Lou Holtz's staff here, Schottenheimer. "lie is a good he was linebacker coach at Louisiana family man, and he is very demand­State for the last two years and at ing in that he asks the best from Michigan State five of six years everyone." before that position. Born on Oct. 1, 1949, Scholten­
In that stretch, Schottenheimer's heimer is a native of McDonald, Pa. teams defeated Notre Dame once, He is a graduate of Ft. Cherry High when LSU won last season. Now the Kurt Schottenheimer School and attended Coffeyville tables are t~rned. tion," comiues Schottenheimcr. (Kan. )Junior College, where he was 
"I decided to come to Notre "We had great respect for Notre an all-America quarterback. He com­Dame because I was excited to have Dame (because) it was a team that pleted his collegiate career at Miami a chance at what seemed like the you had to play very well against." (Fla.), starting two seasons as a type of challenge I would enjoy," Schottenheimer inherited a very defensive back and graduating in says Schottenheimer. "We do have a inexperienced linebacking corps, 1971 with a bachelor's degree in lot of work to do before the season with the exception of returning Education. starts. sophmorc Cedric Figaro. So spring 
training has become a time to not He started his coaching career in "The people here are willing to only evaluate and to plan but to also 1974 at William Paterson State Col­
work, and they want to be the very instruct. Schottenheimer stresses lege in New jersey. In 1977 he best. We have exceptionally good knowledge of fundamentals, tech· joined the staff at Ridgefield Park kids. I am impressed with the com­nique, assignments and situations (N.J.), where he spent one season. mittment in the classroom, and the that his players will see in a game. He moved to MSI J in 1978 as a 
admiration and respect for the Uni­"We have to start from the begin­graduate assistant and secondary versity that people have to have ning," says Schottenheimer. "We coach. In his third year he switched here." have to assume that they know little to linebacking coach and worked When comparing LSU with Notre about their posi~ion and have aside current Irish offensive line Dame football, Schottenheimer patience with them because we do coach Tom Yclovich. He stayed with stressed the similarities rather than have time. the Big Ten school through the 1982 at
the differences. "We want to give e~eryone an op­season, coaching one season "All good (college) football teams portunity, and we want everyone to Tulane. 
TEACH IN JAPAN 
Persons with a degree and job expenence 1n sucn Tlelds as advertising, publishing, engineering, business administration, pharmacology, linguistics and languages wishing to teach English to Japanese adults for one or two years In Tokyo and other parts of Japan should write to: 
Personnel Manager 
International Education Services 
Shin Taiso Bldg. 
10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome, Shlbuya-ku 
Tokyo, Japan 150 
We are tentatively scheduling interviews in Seattle, San Francisco, Chicago and Boston in May, June and July 1986. 
Further information on the position, qualifications, salary, benefits, transportation and housing can be obtained by airmailing a detailed resume with a recent photograph to I.E.S. 
The Observer Wednesday, April 16, 1986-page 10 
SMC track sets record; softball team is swept 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
There was plenty ofactivity at An­gela Field over the weekend, as the Saint Mary's softball and track and field teams played host to their op­ponents. 
The softball team lost both games of a doubleheader to St. Francis Qoliet) last Saturday but swept two games from DePauw on Sunday to bring their record to 9-S. The track team dropped its record to 2-1 on Saturday, when it lost to Hope Col­lege. 
Head Coach Scott Beisel cited poor defense as the primary reason for the softball team's 16-1loss in its first game against St. Francis. 
Freshman Mary Malina's single in the second inning was the only hit for Saint Mary's. Shortstop Kris Pan­telleria, a junior, had two put-outs and three assists in the game. 
The Belles lost the second game to St. Francis, 8-1. The score was tied at 1-1 until the ninth inning, when the opponents scored seven runs. Saint Mary's failed to make a com­eback in the bottom of the inning. 
Freshman Amy Cuti, sophomore Marge Reynolds and junior Janine Adamo each singled in the game. Junior Lorri White had eight put­outs and two assists, while Pan­telleria had four put-outs and six assists. 
On Sunday the Belles played an entirely different brand of ball, defeating DePauw 10-4 and 9-2. Senior Cathy Logsdon, now 5-3 for the season, was the winning pitcher in the first game, and freshman Tammy Shelor recorded the win in the second game. 
In the first game freshman Trish Tierney went 3-for-4 with one RBI and two stolen bases. White went 3­for-3 and had five put-outs, while Malina went 2-for-3 and had two RBI's, five put-outs and one assist. 
Cuti contributed three hits and 
against DePauw, and Adamo had two hits, one RBI and seven put-outs. Malina had one hit and three RBI's, and Julie McNish, a sophomore, had two hits and two RBI's. 
Among the highlights of the track and field team's meet against Hope was a new school record. 
The Belles' 800-meter medley relay team of junior Anne Bianco, and freshmen Missy Bailey, Lora Gill and Kelly O'Brien set a new record with its 2:06.54 first place finish. 
The 3200-meter relay team of sophomores Stephanie Duke and Mary O'Connor and freshmen Mary Boulger and Patty Morris earned first place for its 13:37.7 effort. 
Mariclaire Driscoll, a junior long­distance runner, took first place in the 3000-meter run with a time of 21:00.01, followed by Lisa Tugman, a freshman, who ran the race in 
14:16.6 for second place. Driscoll placed second in the 5000-meter run with a time of 21:00.01. 
In the 1500-meter run, Theresa Rice, a freshman, capturedfirst place in 5:13.02, while Morris took third place. Rice finished the 800-meter run in 2:30.7 for second place, while O'Brien and Mary Luneen, a senior, placed third in the 100 and 400­meter runs, respectively. 
In the field events competition, Gill took first place in the triple jump with her 27.6 effort, and Bianco came in second with a 26.11 jump. Duke finished third in the long jump for the Belles. 
Beki Davis, a freshmen, placed first in the discus with her throw of 
90.11. Jennifer O'Neil, also a fresh­man, finished second in the javelin with a 95.2 effort. 
The track and field team travels to Greencastle on Saturday to compete against DePauw and Central Col­lege. The softball team faces Ander­son at home on Saturday at 1 p.m. and plays host to Franklin on Sunday at 1 p.m. 

APPhoto 
Flying Flyer 

Philadelphia Flyers Rick Tocchet (22) flies over final with a 5-2 win.ln the only other contest, the james Patrick (3) ofthe New York Rangers during St. Louis Blues knocked off the Minnesota North first-period action ofSunday's Stanley Cup playoff Stars, 6-3, to take the Norris Dit•ision semifinal game. The two teams squared offagain last night, series. and the Rangers took the Patrick Division semi-
two put-outs in the second game 
Spinks has new role in upcoming heavyweight bout 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Michael Spinks is aware of a change in his status since his upset of Larry Holmes for a piece of the heavyweight champion­ship. 
"It (being a heavyweight cham­pion) carries a lot more respect and prestige than being light heavyweight champion did," Spinks said yesterday. 
"People say, 'You're the one to beat Larry Holmes."' 
But there's a sameness for Spinks in his rematch against Holmes for the International Boxing Federation heavyweight title Saturday night at the Las Vegas Hilton. 
"It's different to a certain extent," Spinks said. "I'm the defending champion. But I'm still the under­dog. 
"I really don't know if people ac­cept my victory." 
While Holmes is favored, he is not the solid choice he was for the first fight last Sept. 1 S in which he was trying to match the late Rocky Maricano's record of 49-0. 
"I got sick to death of people as­king me what I thought my chances were," said Spinks, recalling his bid 
to  become  the  frrst  light  
heavyweight  champion  to win  a  
heavyweight title.  

"I wasn't supposed to last accord­ing to the experts ... so-called ex­
perts.
... 
Two judges favored Spinks by one point each, both scoring the 1Sth round for him. The third judge gave Spinks a three-point margin. 
UNCLES' IRISH PUB 
1609 Grape Rd. JMS Plaza 
2n-56ao
Mishawaka 
Live Irish Music Thursday Night 
JOHN KENNEDY 
N.D. GRAD 
12oz. DRAFT BEER SPECIAL 50¢ 
Mark your calender: Sat., April 19th The law comes to Alumni-Senior Club 
'Paper Chase' 
will be shown from 8-lOp.m. 
Dance to the sounds of'Lake Effect' 10-1 a.m. Dance contest at midnight $50 prize money Everyone Welcome·-No J.D. required 


OPENING LATE SPRING 198611 
IN OLD LATHE WORKS PROJECT ON THE EAST RACE 475 N. NILES AV SOUTH BEND, IN. 
234-1954 
55 ROOMS RESTAU RANT/LOUNGE MARINA (FALL '86)/BOAT RENTALS KITCHENETTES 
~t(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------W~e~dn~e~s~d~ay~,-A~p~ri~l~I6~,~1~9~8~6--~p~ag~e~ll
Bloom County 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 
AW, /SNrTHAINIGE. AND 
WHAT?4t:>U Rc SE'WN6 HIM

I(OURt eo/N6 TO SET 
OFF FOR CRue-t iNHc..MAN

HIM FREe: AREN'r 
SGENnF!C El<PhtMENIT?r
Y\?<..1? 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Saga 5 Nasser's 
successor 10 Utter 
indiscreetly 14 Voice 15-boutte 16 Paddy plant 17 Appear 18 Mollusk 19 Stock market 
letters 20 Meddle 22 Most dense 24 Ancient 
kingdom 26 Digit 27 Start of a 
Massieu quote 32 Certain stu­
dents: abbr. 35 Part 36 Paris summers 37 Multitude 39 Infamous 
Ugandan 40 Stocking 1986 Tnbune Medta Servtces. Inc. 4/16/86All Rtghts Reserved 
stutter 
Tuesday's Solution 
42 Sailor's saint 43 Alighieri 2 Appeal 45 Wedding cake 3 Article 
feature 4 Adept 46 Antony's gal 5 Xanthippe's 
for short husband 47 Comp. dir. 6 Mil. mail 48 Part II of center 
quote 7 Nick 51 Dined 8 Span 52 Leo's locks 9 Pacific island 53 End of quote 10 Clump of 58 Lea brushwood 62 Own 11-rickey 63 Singer Mel 12 Sleeve cards 65 Metered car 13 Author's work 66 Zone 21 A Whitney 67 Lake Geneva 23 Price 
resort 25 Change 68 At any time 27 Level 
4/16/86 

69 GWTW word 28 Caesar was one 38 Made anew 55 Tied 70 Station 29 Skirt shape 41 Weapons 56 Wander 71 Disclaim 30 Material 44 Small suffix 57 Stumble 
31 High regard 49 Vehement 59 Kingman of DOWN 32 Merry 50 Bill baseball 
1 Steinbeck 33 Tybalt's 51 Out in front 60 Yoked beasts· title direc­slayer 53 Melt 61 Sinewy tion 34 Hoax 54 Mala -64 Red chairman 
NEED A LITTLEMONEY? 


THEY WERE f:SPECtALL<I INTFR-~ £'578) v.tHEN I .,;_ TOLD THEM l<c HAD 
1>, CU.1(3-FOOl. ~ 


"Well, one guess which table wants another round of banana daiquiris." 
Campus 

•3:30 
P.M. -meeting, John Goldrick, as­•7 P.M.-presentation, "Juniors: Learn How sociate vice president for residence life, 411 to Fill Out Your Profile Form," Paul Reynolds, Administration Building, Sponsored by assistant director, Career & Placement Foreign Study, free Services, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, 

•4 
P.M. -lecture, "Politics and Society in Con­Sponsored by Career & Placement Services temporary Latin American Theater" Carlos 

free • ' Miguc:l Suarez Radillo, author and critic, •7 P.M.-meeting, Keenan/Stanford Chapel, Room I 12 Law School, Sponsored by Kellogg Sponsored by Christian Fellowship, free Institute, free •7 P.M., 9: IS P.M. AND II: -movie, "The 

•6: 
IS P.M. · meeting, Center for Social Con­Sting," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by cerns, Sponsored by Circle K, Student Activities Board, $1 

•6:30 
P.M. -meeting, Lafortune Little •8 P.M. -lecture, "John Ireland in 1896: Theatre, Sponsored by Young Democrats, Politics ofa Prelate," Marvin O'Connell, Notre 

•6:30 
P.M.-meeting, Lewis Hall party room, Dame, Galvin Life Science Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Hawaii Club, Sponsored by Department of History, 

•6:45 
P.M.-slide show, Slide Show of Italy, •8 P.M. -meeting, Lafortune Little Theatre, Architecture students, Haggar College Sponsored by Oregon Club, Center, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Club Italia, •10 P.M. -discussion, "STudent Govern­free ment", Mike Switek and Don Montanaro, 


WVFI-AM, 
Dinner Menus 
Saint Mary's Notre Dame 
Roast Turkey with Dressing Pasta 
Baked Breaded Fish with Tartar Sauce Fettucini Beef and Bean Chimichanga Sole Florentine Cheese Crisps 
TV Tonight· 

7P.M. 16 My.AySyH 9P.M. 16 Blacke's Magic 22 Three's Company 22 CBS Wednesday Movie: "Hoax" 28 Jeopardy 28 Dynasty }4 Nightly Business Report }4 Mark Russel Comedy Special 46 7000ub 46 LeseaAllve 
7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 9:30P.M. }4 The Battle of the Blimps 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 10P.M. 16 St. Elsewhere 28 Whed of Fortune 28 Hotd }4 Cats and Dogs }4 Adam Smith Money World 
8P.M. 16 Highway to Heaven 46 calvary Temple 22 CBS Special: Ringling Bros. & 10:30P.M. 46 Christian Financial Guide 
Barnum & Bailey Circus llP.M. 16 NewsCenter 16 28 MacGyver 22 22 Eyewitness News }4 National Geographic Special 28 WSJV Newswatch 28 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching }4 Body Electric 
8:30P.M. 46 Renewed Mind 46 Praise the Lord 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
he Student Activities Board Movies 
The Sting 
Commission and Publicity Commission re looking for workers for 1986-87. 
$1.00 $1.00 
Wednesday, April 16,Thursday,April 17th f interested, contact the SAB office at 239-7757. 
7:00,9:15, 11:30 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
Itpays! 
S~orts 

Bookstore Basketball XV continued second-round play yesterday despite an April snow. While spectators were bundled up on the sidelines, Good News and Bad News beared the elements against Beer Flatulence on the Bookstore courts. Michael Keegan details all the action in his story at right. 
Wednesday, April 16, 1986 -page 12 
Top-seeded teams advance despite weather conditions 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 

Ofcourse it wasn't snowing yesterday. This 
is the middle of April. Yesterday's precipita­
tion was caused by a catastrophic event that 
occurred four years ago. Believe it or not, yes­
terday's Bookstore action was hindered by the 
cosmic ray fallout caused when Bill Murray 
proceeded to blow up the Stay-Puft Marshmal­
low Man. It happens every year in April, just as 
the Bookstore Basketball Tournament gets 
underway. 

Yesterday's action saw four top-seeded 
teams brave the elements and advance into 
the third round. 
On Stepan Court 4 at 4 p.m., Unidentified Grace Defenders defeated Sphinxter and Four Other Orifices by a score of 21-1 I. Steve Takach was red hot for the Unidentified Grace Defenders. He shot 10-of-14 from the field. Dan Sernett provided the rebound power for U.G.D., pulling down 10 boards. 
Because of the marshmallow fallout, statis­tics were unavailable for seeded Showtime's game against Yank My Doodle. In the end, Showtime prevailed by a closer-than-thought score of 2 I-I8. 
On Lyons Court I 2 at 6:1 5 p.m., The Em­harassing Stains, lead by Tim Kempton, faced Kegels and Cutoffs. The Embarassing Stains won by 13 with the final of 21-8. Kempton and Skip Holtz provided the scoring power for the Embarassing Stains. Kempton was 9-of-13 from the field and Holtz was 7-of-12. For Kegels and Cutoffs, Tim Bigham and D.). Doyle missed all of their combined total ofsix shots. 
The final top-seeded team, Much More Manhood, played The Big Blue Vein on Stepan Court 5. Even though the court was slick be­cause of the weather, Much More Manhood dominated the game, easily winning, 21-8. Casey Newell, Joel Williams and Tim Brown played extremely well in the winning effort. All three combined to shot 16-of-26 from the field. For the Big Blue Vein, Paul Bowersock made four of his six shots en route to scoring halfof the team's points. 
In addition to yesterday's cosmic fallout that destroyed the recent spring-like weather, Monk Malloy's dreams of a Bookstore cham­pionship were shattered by the Still Un­touchable team. Still Untouchable defeated Four Sinners and a Monk, 21-13. Malloy's first­round heavenly touch abandoned him yester­day. He shot a less-than-inspired 3-of-10 form the field. His team only made 13 of its 4 7 at­tempts. 
In last week's action, Manangerial Units was the winner of an exciting 31-29 contest. Yes­terday, they were the losers of a less-than­excmng 21-I 3 game. Small Rodent Stimulation easily defeated M.U. with a balanced attack. Mike "Skeets" Gordon, Ed "Stub" Starichak, and Scott (no nickname available) Harder scored 17 of the 21 points. 
see BOOKSTORE, page 8 
ND golf team captures second in Indianapolis 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team eagerly awaits its biggest challenge to date, namely the opportunity to compete in the very prestigious Kepler Invitational. This will allow the team to show exactly how good they are as they will challenge some of the best teams in the Midwest, in­cluding Ohio State and Ball State. 
The team comes into this weekend's outing on a high note as they captured second place at the Indianapolis Intercollegiate Golf In­vitational which took place last Sun­day and Monday. Head Golf Coach Noel O'Sullivan was pleased with his team's performance and impressed by Ball State. 
"Although our performance was not spectacular, the placement was very well accepted," he said. "Anytime we can be presented with a runner-up trophy, we will take it. After seeing Ball State's outstanding performance, they definitely have proven that they are one of the strongest teams in the Midwest." 
The Intercollegiate was held on the intimidating Eagle Creek golf course which has a par of 72 and course rating of 73.4 to go along with 6,894 yards filled with water and sand. It was also the site of the 1982 National Public Links Cham­pionship. The tournament consisted of 18 holes which were played on Sunday and then again on Monday. 
Of the nine teams that entered the Intercollegiate, Ball State's 783 led the way while Notre Dame's 812 garnered second. Franklin's 822 and Evansville's 824 rounded out the top four spots. Individually the Irish linksters were led by senior Lon Huf­fman, sophomore Rich Connelly, and senior captain John O'Donovan who all shot 162's. Norm Campbell fired a 165, John Anthony stroked a 166, and Steve Fuhrer shot a 167 to finish out the Irish scoring. 

O'Sullivan spoke highly about the leadership O'Donovan has provided the team. 
"Sometimes the team's perfor­mance does not live up to the coach's and team's expectations," he said. "But John O'Donovan, the Mr. Cool ofthe outfit, helps the younger players feel that their tomorrow will be better. Overall, he is just an out­standing captain and performer. I feel fortunate to have had him for four solid years." 
This weekend O'Donovan will lead the Irish golf team into the Kepler Invitational where last year the Irish squad placed I I th out of 24 teams. This year the Kepler will con­tain 23 teams consisting of I 0 Big Ten schools, I 0 Mid-American schools, and three independents. 
It will be played on the tough Scarlet Course, designed by Jack Nicklaus, located at Ohio State Uni­versity. The Scarlet Course is 7,042 yards long, has a par of 72, and has a par rating of 73.9. It will also be the site of the 1987 NCAA Division I championship. 
The Kepler will be an arduous test of stamina, endurance and con­centration since it is a 54-hole tournament with 27 holes being played on both Saturday and Sunday. However, O'Sullivan believes his team is ready to produce some very fine performances. 
"Our exposure on the Scarlet Course has been very extensive," said O'Sullivan. "Every one of our. players has played this course at least three times. So we have the yardages down for the tournament. 
"We haven't clicked as a team yet and now is the time. We have ap­proached the Kepler with no pressure. We are looking for a good showing. A performance in the top I 0 would be fabulous." 
The Irish will send a five-man team to the Kepler because of the 1986 Division I ruling which calls for schools to go to five-men teams. This may be a slight disadvantage for the team because O'Sullivan feels the Irish are a better six-man squad. However, the linksters will be eagerly awaiting to tackle their big­gest challenge of the season against any odds. 
Nicklaus' sixth Masters title is good news indeed 
Hello again, everybody! 

I was dining with someone a month ago who asked why the sports page never has any good news to report anymore. It was a point well taken, as it does seem that we often have to report on salary disputes, drug and alcohol problems, and other calamities. This man longed for the days when legendary figures graced the sports page for their athletic prowess, and it happened over the weekend. 
jack Nicklaus won the 50th annual Masters golf tourna­ment Sunday. The sport's greatest player won the sport's greatest tournament. All that glittered was truly golden, and things were the way they should be. 
Somehwere among the drooping dogwoods and the soaring Georgia pines that make up the Augusta National Golf Course, the 46-year-old Nicklaus reached back into his golf bag to win golfs most prestigious title for the sixth time. An unprecedented sixth time. To say Nicklaus and Masters in the same breath is to be redundant. 
Nicklaus is one of the few athletes who are recognized by their first name alone. In baseball, you need only say Reggie. In basketball, it's Kareem. In golf, all you need to say is Jack, and you have said it all. 
Oh, there were certainly contenders to this Masters title for jack, but they were more like pretenders on Sunday afternoon. Seve Ballesteros, the dashing young Spaniard, looked ready to lay claim to the title. But Ballesteros' chances splashed and skipped into Rae's Creek along with his second shot on the I 5th hole. A potential birdie became a bogey, and a potential Masters title became a dream. 
Then there was Tom Kite, whose large glasses and curly hair are more reminiscent of an accountant. He had his chance, too, steadily posting birdies and pars on the back nine. Now on the 18th, Kite stroked a birdie putt from 10 feet away, but a resilient blade ofgrass on the left side ofthe cup refused to budge, and the ledger showed one stroke too many. 

Chuck Freeby 
Irish Items 

.1\na finally, Greg Norman made his challenge. The young Aussie held the lead after the third round, and was charging down the back nine. He birdied 14, 15, 16and 17, and now had crunched his tee shot on 18. A solid approach to the green would put him in position to birdie and win, but instead Norman pushed his four-iron deep into the gallery. It was bye, bye birdie. Moments later, it was goodbye, Masters. 
Let us give these men their due. Ballesteros, Kite and Norman are all excellent golfers. However, they are not masters. Not yet. Not on Sunday anyway. 
The only man in this tournament who could truly lay claim to the title of master was jack Nicklaus, and that is somewhat ironic. The galleries at Augusta used to despise Nicklaus. He was the young man trying to knock off the traditional favorite, Arnold Palmer, and tradition is everything at the Masters. On this Sunday, though, he was Jack, the grand old man of tradition, arid the throngs cheered his every move. 
The people were silent on the par-five 15th, as Nicklaus 
perused every nuance of a 12-foot eagle putt. But the 
silence slowly broke into a building murmur and then 
erupted into a roar as Nicklaus dropped it into a hole with 
one deft stroke. The charge had begun. 
Nicklaus proceeded to the par-three 16th, where he 
played his tee shot as though it were on a string. The ball 
dropped behind the pin and then pulled back towards the 
hole, stopping three feet away. The birdie was imminent, 
and the charge continued. 
At 17, Nicklaus continued his amazing string, holing out 
an 11-footer for another birdie. Now Nicklaus came to the 
par-4 18th and the stillness of Augusta was once again 
broken by a deafening ovation as the Golden Bear strode 
up the fairway to his ball on the green, 40 feet from the cup. 
It was a tricky putt that would have to take a roller-coaster 
ride along the slick grass, but Nicklaus left it three feet from 
the cup and tapped it in. 
The par was made. The charge was over. Now all Nick­
laus could do was sit and wait for the rest of the field to 
come in. And when it did, jack Nicklaus donned the green , jacket again. 
The good old days were back. There is good news again. 
Pick of the Week. The Notre Dame lacrosse 
team will be looking to continue bringing good news this 
weekend when it faces midwestern power Denison in a 
key battle Saturday at 1:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Irish are riding a four-game winning streak into this 
one after yesterday's win over Lake Forest, but they'll need 
continued fine play from senior scoring leaders Joe 
Franklin, Tim Corrigan and Tom Grote. Can they do it? 
Head on out to Alumni and find out for yourselfSaturday.· 



