Cluchey -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 21 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER24, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
US-USSR FiredRA summit won't contest still possible her citation 
By ROB HENNIG

Soviet says 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Associated Press 
Former Lewis Hall resident as· 
UNITED NATIONS -Soviet sistant Anne DeWald, cited by Foreign Minister Eduard police for furnishing alcohol to Shevardnadze accused President minors, has decided to perform Reagan yesterday of harboring community service rather than "evil designs" for a first strike contest the citation in court. with the Star Wars system, but Former Keenan Hall resident he said a "realistic possibility" assistant Kurt Petersen, cited on still existed for a superpower the same charge as DeWald, has sumit. made no final decision on his 
In an address to the 41st Gen­plea. eral Assembly, Shevardnadze DeWald and Petersen were dis­called President Reagan's U.N. missed from their jobs by Asso­address Monday "regrettable" ciate Vice President for and "propagandistic." Residence Life John Goldrick 
He mixed conciliation with an after they received the citations attack on U.S. strategic arms at a Sept. 5 off-campus party. policies. Saint Joseph County Prosecut­
"Whatever is done to conceal ing Attorney Michael Barnes said it. the so-called defensive space DeWald and Petersen have three shield is being developed for a options available in regard to first strike," Shevardnadze their citations. charged. DeWald and Petersen could 
"Evil designs are being passed plead guilty, enter the pre-trial for good intentions, and a sword diversion program or contest the
The U.S.S. Conner's Choice makes head­to start in the foreign Elimination Races 
for a shield." he said. allegation and force a trial, said
way in the rough seas off Australia. The beginning October 5th. 
Before his speech, the Soviet Barnes.
yacht, skippered by Dennis Conner, is slated
foreign minister had an un­DeWald said she has decided scheduled 45-minute meeting on the pre-trial diversion pro­with Secretary of State George gram. Shultz, apparently to discuss the According to Barnes, the pre­
Goldrick meeting planned by HPC confinement of American trial diversion program is "a pro­reporter Nicholas Daniloff in gram specifically designed for Moscow on spy charges. first-time offenders."


to discuss informal dances, SYR s 
Neither side-issued a state­Under the program, the of­ment afterward. By J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY will be formed to develop a spe­Science Hall. fender enters Into a contractual 
Shevardnadze did not mention News Staff cific agenda of topics to be cov­Alumni Hall President John agreement with the prosecuting Daniloff in his speech, but the ered as requested by Goldrick. Conveny said the representative attorney's office and agrees to Soviets have been saying without Hall Presidents' Council mem­The agenda will allow for a dis­is better qualified to answer community service, a user fee elaboration that Danlloff, Mos­bers will meet later this week with cussion as well as an open forum questions on legal rights than a and no repeat offenses, said cow correspondent for U.S. News Associate Vice President for for members' questions, she South Bend police officer. Barnes. & World Report magazine, could Residence Life John Goldrick to said. Bruce Lohman, executive offi­Counseling or other special re­be freed "very rapidly" if the U.S. discuss over-21 parties, SYRs In other business, HPC Secre­cer to the student body presi­quirements may also be required administration took the right and non-alcoholic functions, tary Bill Jelen said the University dent, addressing HPC members, under the agreement, he said. course. said HPC Co-Chairperson Joanie forced the return of kazoos that advised them tojoin a committee After a specific period of time 
Shevardnadze addressed the Cahill at last night's HPC meet­were supposed to be distributed being formed to write a compre­in the program In which the General Assembly on the second ing. at a football game last year. hensive report on residence life. terms are met, the offense Is day of its so-called "general Members hope Goldrick will Jelen said the kazoos had to The report will be be submitted removed from the person's debate," an annual event which clearly define the University's be returned because "Bud­to the Board ofTrustees, he said. record, he said. gives heads of state and govern­policy on these events, Cahill weiser" was imprinted on them. Lohman said HPC members DeWald said she and Petersen ment, foreign ministers and said. The meeting will be closed He noted game programs are are needed to join other student contacted the Saint Joseph's other officials of the 159-to the public, she said. sold which feature advertise­government officers to produce County Prosecuting Attorney's member world body a chance to Several members said the ments of the same company. the report. Possible Issues to be Office and spoke with Pre-trial DI­deliver policy statements for meeting is necessary because No action was taken by the HPC addressed Include social activi­version Program Director Linda their governments. Yesterday's their rectors and they are unclear in regard to the kazoos' return. ties, the role of rectors and the Scopeletls. DeWald said they dis­speakers included British on what the University policy In other action, Cahill an­University's use of the dormitory cussed the pre-trial diversion Foreign Secretary Sir Geoffrey states in regard to non-alcoholic nounced that a representative system. program. Howe and Japanese Foreign Min­events, informal dances, SYRs from the county prosecutor's of­The report Is to be presented DeWald said she chose this op­ister Tadashi Kuranarl. Both ex­and over-21 parties in party fice will speak about students' as a study and not a denuncia­tion because the citation would pressed the hope for another su­rooms. rights at off-campus parties at 7 tion or recomendation, Lohman perpower summit this year. Cahill said an HPC committee tonight In Room 127 Nleuwland said. see RA, page 4 

Israel divebombs targets in Lebanon after border move 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Israeli jets divebombed Palestinian guerrilla bases in the hills east of Beirut yesterday, setting at least four targets ablaze, pollee said. 
The raid came one day after Israel massed troops along the border with Lebanon in an ap­parent warning to Shiite Moslem guerrillas to cease their attacks In south Lebanon, near Israel. The border situation was quiet yesterday. 
Syrian President Hafez Assad was quoted as threatening a "stunning retaliation" if Israel in­vades Lebanon. 
Police said huge clouds of smoke billowed from the bluffs of Bayssour, Keyfoun, Eitat and Shimlan, 12 miles east of Beirut, after strikes that began at 5:30 
p.m. It was the lOth Israeli air raid in Lebanon this year. 
Israel's military command in Tel Aviv said all planes returned safely and reported hitting bases used for attacks on Israel by the Abu Moussa guerrilla faction and the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine. 
The Abu Moussa Fatah­Uprlsing, which broke away from PLO chairman Yasser Arafat's Fatah, said In a communique in Beirut that its bases east and southeast of Beirut sustained considerable damage In the air raid. 
The Abu Moussa group said no Palestinians were killed or in­jured. Police said two militiamen from Druse warlord Walid Jumblatt's Progressive Socialist Party, which controls Lebanon's central mountains, were wounded. 
The party is allied with Pales­tinian guerrilla groups backed by Syria. 
The Israeli planes made at least four bombing runs in 40 minutes, with eight jets taking part In each sortie, police said. The pilots released red balloons that distracted the guerrillas' shoulder-fired, heat-seeking SA­7 missiles. 
Beirut International Airport was closed for 30 minutes during the attacks, with one commercial flight diverted to Cyprus and four other flights delayed, aviation of­ficials said. 
But tension lessened yester­day at the Israel-Lebanon bor­der. Israeli troop and tank rein­forcements rushed there Monday, poised for a thrust Into south Lebanon to put down a surge of guerrilla attacks by Iranian-backed Shiite extremists. 
The threat raised fears ofa new military collision between U.S.­
supplied Israel and Sovlet­equippped Syria on Lebanese soil for the seond time in four years. 
"If It (fsrael) attempts a new invasion, the retaliation will be stunning. It will be a surprise to all," Assad was quoted as saying by the leftist Beirut newspaper AI-Hakika. 
It said Assad's remarks were made Monday In Damascus, the Syrian capital, during a meeting with Lebanese politicians. 
Israel humiliated Syria In a 1982 invasion of Lebanon that drove Syrian troops and Pales­tine Liberation Organization guerrillas from Beirut. 

r 
The Observer 
In Brief 
Lights will be installed sometime next week to complete the Notre Dame War Memorial fountain, according to Don Dedrick. director of physical plant at Notre Dame. Dedrick also noted that the water jets have been adjusted to spray inward so as not to .drench students sitting on the fountain's marble base. He added, however, that some mist is inevitable on windy days. 
As the school year begins, there is mixed news for the I 986-87 crop of college graduates. The Job Opportunity In­dex (JOI), published in the September issue of Business Week careers magazine, pre~licts a 2 percent rise in total job offers. But no increase is expected in starting salaries. Accounting and business majors have the best prospects, with a predic­tion of a 3.5 percent rise in job opportunities. Liberal arts graduates should also fare. better than last year, with retailing and food service as prime markets. The outlook for engi­neering graduates is spotty. Offers will be plentiful for those in computer science, electronics and avionics. But few offers are anticipated for petroleum and mining engineers. Man­agement and administration graduates also face some hurdles, as cost-conscious companies are hiring less trainees. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Student' rights at off-campus parties will be discussed at a second forum tonight at 7 in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. This forum will be conducted by an official representative from the county prosecutor's office and will focus specifically on the legality of using breathalyzers. -The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, will speak on the international dimension of Notre Dame tonight at 7 in the library auditorium. Everyone is welcome to this event sponsored by the International Student Organization. -The Observer 
Women and the Bible will be the topic of today's Saint Mary's series: "Issues Facing Women in the Church." Speaking will be Rita Burns of Saint Mary's from 12:15 to 1:15 p.m. In LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. -The Observer 
"Central America: Roots of the Crisis" will be the topic of a presentation by Joel Mugge, director ofthe Center for Global Service and Education. The Jecture will be held at 3 p.m. today in the Coffee House of the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
Contestants in the Business Plan Contest have a mandatory meeting at 4:15p.m. tomorrow in 122 Hayes-Healy Center. Jay Jordan will speak. -The Observer 
Peace Corps representative Dan Smolka and Gail Lettman will conduct a fllm seminar tonight at 7:30 In the Center for Social Concerns. The representatives will return to Notre Dame and interview interested seniors at the careers and Placement Office next Monday and Tuesday. -The Observer 
Weather 
Today features a 60 percent chance of thundershowers with highs In the mid to upper 70s. Business should be "booming" In the skies tonight with a 50 percent chance of thundershowers. Expect lows In the upper 60s. A 40 percent chance of af­ternoon thunderstorms tomorrow with 


highs in the low to mid 80s is on the way. The Associated Press 

Design Editor ....... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Copy Editor Maura Mandyk Design Assistant ... Mike 'Moj' Mojica Accent Copy Editor . .. Mary Reynolds Layout Staff. ........ Heather Hypes Accent Layout . ...... Sharon Emmite Typesetters . ........... Michael Buc Typists ............... Esther Ivory News Editor . .......... Jane Kravcik ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovic Copy Editor . .......... Regis Coccia ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovic t Sports Copy Editor . ... Rick Rietbrock Photographer . .... Margaret Mannion 
lbe Observe,. ( l'SPS ~99 l-<000) is puhli•h~d ~londa\ thrmo~h friday cxc~pt uuron14 exam and vacation periods.Th~ Observer i!-1 puhli~hc:U h) tht' stuc.lc:m~<lfthe l ni\'er~ll) of Notre Dame and Saint :\1ary's College 
Th~ Obsrrv~r i~ a memher of Thr Associated Press. All rerrothu.:tion n~ht!'> an· 
rest"rved. 
Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 2 
Relative's death provokes reflections on faith 

My great uncle Bobby died last February while my parents were on campus for Junior Parents' Weekend. 
My dad went down to the Grotto to light a candle for Great Uncle Bobby. He was his father's brother. My mom went along, too, because she wanted to see the Grotto. My mother Is not catholic. She 
goes to Mass only when my father's catholic sense 
of ritual requires It: marriage, baptism, first com­munions and the like. She waited patiently on the side while my father pushed open the wrought­iron gate and entered the Grotto, scowling in con­centration at the Instructions about how to light a candle for the dead. 
In the Grotto there are iron plaques embedded in the walls, plaques that say things like "In Thanksgiving For Favor Granted. Aug. 3, 1954 ­M.H.M." Miracles have occured here. Miracles! The earth should have been shaking. 
Yet the moment was still as my mother, with no particular religious affiliation, stood there watching my father light his candle, as if by study­ing his example she could figure out how to par­ticipate in the mechanism of faith. 
And what exactly is faith? If you're not sure, don't worry. There are many groups out there today willing to explain it to you. From Southern fundamentalists to conservative Catholics, Americans of all colors are worried about the non­believers and the evil effects they are supposedly having on society. 
When Notre Dame expels a student for a parie­tals violation, the University displays (although It will never admit it) a fear that students are not obeying its rule against pre-marital sex. Or take for example the television evangelist Jimmy Swag­gert, who believes rock music publications help lead teenagers down a path of drugs, violence, sexual promiscuity and general mayhem. He names the country's fastest-growing retailer, the Wal-Mart discount chain, as contributing to America's moral degeneration by selling rock publications. Shortly thereafter Wal-Mart pulls all rock-related magazines, including Rolling Stone, from its shelves. 
It Is sad that people feel compelled to force others to believe exactly as they do. Perhaps It is more reassuring, more a confirmation of a reli­gion's position, to have others ascribe to the same tenets. 
But what if my father had demanded that my mother participate In his particular set of beliefs? I doubt they would have remained married for these 21 years. The Grotto and all It embodies may mean little to someone like my mother, who 
Clarification A column in yesterday's Viewpoint section contain­ed incorrect information. The Column by Lou Sarabando was written before Fisher Hall's SYR. 
Thanks toyou... itworks... 
Mary Jacoby 
Accent Editor

cannot accept a faith manifested through objects and rituals. She must find something else to serve as a vehicle of faith. 
But to my father, the Catholic church with its prayers and masses does mean something. I think It must provide him with a structure -something which he can actually see and touch -that will support a concept such as belief that has no tan­gible shape, form or explanation. 
My point is therefore very simple. I don't think it matters exactly what you believe in, but rather that you believe. Faith, although all-important, is extremely personal. Thus it also has many forms. A person can't believe In something he or she cannot fundamentally accept. 
But mankind with all Its history of inquisitions, religious discriminations and general Intolerance will never be content to allow people who need It the luxury of their own belief. 
Back at the Grotto, my dad stood looking at his candle. "Great Uncle Bobby -third row from the front. eighth slot from the left," he repeated, trying perhaps to give shape to a concept like death which goes beyond human understanding. 
My mother nodded absently, and then we left. My dad was mumbling something reassuringly practical about maybe the four little candles for 25 cents each being a better buy than the one big candle for a dollar. 
The SYR was held last Friday and was Fisher's first of the fall semester. The Observer apologizes for this copy editing er­
ror. 
• UnlladWIIy
forALLOFUS 

SINGLE WOMENS' RETREAT Mary's Solitude Center Saint Mary's Campus Oct. 3-4, 7am-7pm Call: SISTER ARLENE 284-5599 


Distributor For 

J'Rountain ~an Nut~ fruit Co. 
Will be opening a store in the newly remodeled Lafortune Student Center. We are now accepting applications for the following positions: 


Store Manager 2 Pari· Time In Store Sales People Assistant Store Manager 4 Outside Sales People -will work around class schedules­
¢ 
¢ Applications are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office. 


The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 3 

waiting outside the office ot· Chemistry pro­
fessor Dr. Pamela Plouhar, preparing for a 
chemistry test. 

Rockworld contest comes to SMC 
By GREG LUCAS 
News Staff 
saint Mary's will participate in a Rockworld contest, according to an announcement at last night's progamming board meeting. 
Christine DiDonato, Haggar College Center commissioner, announced the contest in which both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students will be encour­aged to watch videos every day at 9 a.m., 10 a.m. and 10 p.m. at Haggar College Center. 
Videos will be shown in hour­long segments, and new videos will be added each week. 
Students will then submit entry blanks concerning the videos. 
The college or university which sends in the highest number of student entry blanks will win an expense-paid music video party from Rockworld. 
Students can enter more than once, and are eligible for Individ­ual prizes. 
More than 550 institutions are participating in the contest. The programming board also 
announced that Barbara George, an antinuclear activist, Is sched­uled to speak on Tuesday, Oct. 
28. George uses a humorous for­mat to get across her message. 
sarah Cook. vice president of student affairs, expressed en­thusiasm for the speaker and re­ported hearing excellent reviews of George's performance. 
In other business, Lisa Lawler, traditional events commissioner, expressed a need for people 21 and over to serve beer at Fall Fest on Oct. 8th and 9th. 

· a Peace Corps Volunteer will develop your professional skills in the classroom and beyond. You might teach basic math to rural students in Belize ... and after school set up a vegetable gar­den to improve nutrition. Or be assigned as a physics teacher in Lesotho. In addition, help local women market handicrafts to earn school fees. As a handle responsibilities and meet challenges far greater than those that might be offered in a starting position in the United States. When you return, your Peace Corps experience may open new doors to you. Educa­tional institutions, international firms and government agencies value someone with your experience. 
~ars of PEACE CORPS 
The toughest job you'll ever love. 
Hlm Seminar: Wed, Sept 24th Center for Social Concerns, 7:30pm Interviews Sept 29 & 30 in the Placement Office 
Former prisoner here to act, teach students 
By TIM CLARK 
Staff Reporter 
A former San Quentin prison Inmate, here to perform in "Krapp's Last Tape," wants to not only perform but also share his unique perspective with aspiring actors. 
Former san Quentin inmate Rick Cluchey will perform Samuel Beckett's "Krapp's Last Tape" tonight, tomorrow and Friday at 8:10p.m. in Washing­ton Hall. 
The veteran of three Beckett plays, Cluchey thinks he lends a unique perspective to Beckett's plays. 
"In prison, I underwent suffer­ing and punishment day in and day out, much like the characters in Beckett's plays," he com­mented. "Ultimately, however, my experience uniquely prepared me for the New York drama critics," he added. 
In the play, Cluchey takes the role of Krapp, an old man who regretfully looks back on his life. "The play Is basically an anagram of light and dark," said Cluchey. 
Despite the depressing theme, Cluchey adds a touch of comedy to the play and finds that many hopeful youth attend his perfor­mances. He said, "I generally see about a 50-50 split between young and old at the off­Broadway performances." 
"Others simply want to see the play as directed by Its author and understand how Beckett views his own work." he commented. 
Cluchey enjoys a unique rela­tionship with Beckett, who In­spired Cluchey to act and then later discovered him. Cluchey described the playwrlte as "demanding yet kind, generous and warm." 
Cluchey first became inter­ested in acting after seeing Be­ckett's "Waiting for Godot" while In San Quentin. "I rushed to the prison library afterward, but both copies of the play were gone so I had to wait and the desire grew." 
While in prison, Cluchey wrote "Cage," a play that showed the reality of life in prison. "The piece did a great deal for the cause of prison reform," he said. 
Cluchey will offer workshops, advice and lectures on Beckett and his work for aspiring actors and interested people at 12:15 
p.m. and 4:00p.m. on the day of each performance. 
Tickets for the performances are $6 main floor and $5 balcony with student and senior citizen discounts tonight and tomorrow. All workshops and lectures are open to the public and free of charge. 
Service award given to alumnus Scannell 
Special to the Obseroer 
Robert Scannell, president and dean of Pennsylvania State Uni­versity's System of Continuing Education and Commonwealth Campuses, has been named this year's recipient of the Notre Dame Alumni Association's Har­vey G. Foster Award. 
Scannell, who graduated from Notre Dame with a bachelor of science degree in 1957, joined Penn State's faculty in 1961 after 
211 
serving for three years as a teacher at John Adams High School in South Bend. 
The Alumni Association award will be presented to Scannell on Oct. 11 In halftime ceremonies during the Notre Dame­Pittsburgh football game. 
The award is given annually to distinguished alumni for com­munity or University service, in memory of Harvey G. Foster, a Notre Dame alumnus and foot­ball star of the class of 19.39. 
Thursday & Friday 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit 
' 
ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2om Thursday 
9pm -3om Friday 
--------------------~------­~or-
GotJ $1.00 oft entrance fee 

259·1900 

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 4 
Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon called for by UN Security Council 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS • The Secur­ity Council passed a resolution yesterday demanding that Israel withdraw all of its forces from Lebanon, but Israel-had an­nounced earlier that it would not comply. 
The resolution passed 14-0 with the United States abstain­ing. 
It instructs the secretary­general to arrange for the deployment of U.N. peac_ekeep­ing forces into the buffer zone in southern Lebanon now held by Israel "and solemnly calls on all the parties concerned to cooperate in the achievement of that objective." 
U.S. ambassador Vernon Wal­ters said the resolution was flawed because no solution is possible until all the parties in southern Lebanon reach agree­ment on security arrangements. But the United States did not use the veto, which it has as one of the five permanent council mem­bers. 
The resolution asks Secretary­General Javier Perez de Cuellar to report back to the council in 21 days on the implementation of the resolution. 

It condemned attacks ma<;le upon members of the United Na­tions Interim Force in Lebanon, or UNIFIL, over the past month, with the French contingent being the main target. Four French sol­diers and an Irish officer have been killed since Aug. 11 in at­tacks by Moslem extremists who consider UNIFIL an obstacle to their aim of attacking Israel. 
Israel told the council Monday it would not withdraw from the "security zone" that it set up along the border in southern Lebanon after it withdrew the bulk of its forces in June 1985 
AMA says doctors should disclose drug addict names to authorities 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Doctors who dis­cover that their patients threaten public safety because of drug abuse or other problems should set aside doctor-patient con­fidentiality and tell authorities, the American Medical Associa­tion says. 
A doctor otherwise could be held legally liable for any harm that results, B.J. anderson, AMA associate general counsel, said yesterday. 
The Pittsburgh Press reported Sunday that at least 2.3 airline crew members, including a pilot near death from a cocaine over­dose, had been treated at Pit­tsburgh hospitals for medical crises related to drug abuse. Hospital officials said confiden­tiality laws prevented them from reporting the drug abuse. 
RA 
continuedfrom page 1 
be removed from her record once she completed the pre-trial program. 
She said paying the fine for the citation would still leave the cita­tion on her record. 
Lewis Hall rector Chris Men­gucci said a new resident assis­tant has been selected from last semester's alternates. 
Keenan Hall rector Brother Bonaventure Scully said he has selected a candidate and has sent the name to Student Affairs for approval. 
"We took all the seniors in the dorm and considered them (for the job)," Scully explained. "It really was a consensus of myself and the RAs and the assistants," he said. 
Although DeWald and Peter­sen's dismissals mean that they must move out of the resident assistants' rooms, both will be permitted to stay in their same dorms. 
DeWald said she plans to con­
tinue to reside in Lewis. 
Petersen said he was unsure whether he would remain in Keenan. 
Correction 

In yesterday's Student Senate article, the information about the forum on students' rights at off­campus parties was incorrect. It will be conducted by a represen­tative of the county prosecutor's office at 7 tonight in Room 127 of Nleuwland Science Hall. The article was also unclear about a resolution about parietals. It must be approved by the Campus Life Council and Vice President for Student Affairs Fa­ther David Tyson before It can take affect. 
Anderson said yesterday that while chemical abuse programs that get federal money are prohibited from revealing the names of participants, the legal ban does not extend to medical treatment outside such pro­grams. 
But Lou Gable, spokesman for the Hospital Association ofPenn­sylvania, said a 1972 state law forbids such disclosure even out­side formal rehabilitation pro­grams. 
That puts medical people in a difficult spot in cases like those of the airline workers, he said. If they don't disclose names, "there's a possibility for catastrophe. Ifthey do tell some­body, they're liable to be sued or prosecuted," he said. 
Some way should be found to let medical people report such cases "without It coming back and biting them," he said. 

Normally, Anderson said, doc­tors have an ethical obligation to keep medical information about their patients confidential. 
But "physicians recognize the moral obligation under certain circumstances to report because of the overriding consideration for public safety," Anderson said. 
Neither the issue nor the prob­lem of drug abuse in positions crucial for public safety is new, she said. 
The AMA's council on ethical and judicial affairs has stated, "The obligation to safeguard pa­tient confidence is subject to cer­tain exceptions, which are ethi­cally and legally justified because ofoverriding social con­siderations." 
The Observer 
is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Copy Editor Day Editor Assistant News Editor 
Applications are due by Friday, Sept 26. Inquiries should be made to Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski Call 239-5313 or come up to The Observer's new offices on tbe third Door of tbe LaFortune Student Center. 
Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 
4219 Grape Road 277-6403 

REFRIGERATORS 
For Rent 
$54.35 Delivered (New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) 
Call 282-2801 for student rate 
341 0 Western Ave 
The Observer /Margaret Mannion 
Hangin' around 
This animal, a sloth, hangs from a branch in its cage. The sloth resides in the office of Biology professor Dr. Thomas Fogle, in the Science Hall at Saint Mary's. 

Corporation 
will present an informal presentation 
Wed., Sept. 24 7pm-9pm 
Upper Lounge ofUniversity Club 
All students invited All majors and undergrads 
Reception to follow Refreshments to be served 


The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 5 
Government criticized for Lebanon handling 
Associated Press dawn on Oct. 23, 1983, when a suicide terrorist drove a bomb­WASHINGTON -U.S. military laden truck into Marine commanders ignored warnings headquarters near the Beirut air­
· Whicti could have spared the lives port, killing 241 U.S. military per­of manyof the 241 killed In the sonnel. 1983 attack on Marine Six months earlier, on-!\prll 18, headquarters in Beirut, the Pent­1983, a similar suicide car bomb agon's former top counter­attack destroyed the U.S. em­
.terrorism official has charged. bassy in Beirut, killing 63 per­
Instead of paying attention to sons, including 1 7 Americans. the warnings of a five-member After the embassy attack, Koch Special Forces team which rec­wrote, he headed a Pentagon ommended ways to make the team sent to Beirut to review the Marines safer, "the report was safety of the Marines who were swept under the rug," wrote Noel at the airport as part of a multi­Koch. national peacekeeping team. 
The commanders were more Koch said, "I satisfied myself 

•.v<fi''""*'''-...,. worried about bureaucratic In­that we had serious shortcom­
·d~ fighting, said Koch, who ings, particularly in managing in­resigned earlier this year as prin­telligence related to the terrorist cipal deputy assistant secretary threat." 
Scientific method of defense for international se­A five-man team went back Senior Colleen Walker attends to the del­shown here working in the laboratory of the curity affairs. In that position, he later in the summer of 1983 to oversaw the Pentagon's counter­Beirut, wrote Koch, who main­
icate procedure of staining slides. She is Science Hall at Saint Mary's. 
terrorism efforts. tained members ofthat unit were Koch's charges are contained not taken seriously because the 
in a letter sent to several mem­team was created outside the bers of Congress in support of normal chain of command. proposals to unify the Pent­Ten weeks after t.he bombing, agon's special forces within a a Pentagon commission 

Police search for Midwest killer 
who murdered two during spree 
single military structure, rather criticized flaws in the military Associated Press the area because there had been 47, of O'Fallon, had suffered fa­than keeping them scattered chain of command and security no reports of stolen vehicles and tal gunshot wounds to the head, throughout the services. The let­at the Marine barracks. But its 
WRIGHT CITY, Mo. -A fugitive Jackson apparently fled on foot said Lt. Mark Grimmer of the St. ter was made available yesterday criticism was nowhere near as who allegedly killed two people after a gun battle with a local Peters Police Department. to the Associated Press. strong as Koch's. and abducted several others police officer. Investigators would release no Robert Sims, the Pentagon's The team sent to Beirut by during a three-state rampage "We've got nothing, but every­further details, but said they were chief spokesman, said yesterday Koch made a number of specific eluded a dragnet yesterday, and one is still out and that will con­examining evidence that might he was sure Koch's allegations recommendations, according to authorities said a third slaying tinue until he's caught or it:s de­link Jackson to Finn's death. would be reviewed by the the source. Chief among those might be the work of the same termined that he's out of the They pointed out that based on Defense Department and the recommendations were Im­gunman. area," Ford said. the sequence of other events, Joint Chiefs of Staff, but said the proved communications among 
Some residents of this small Officers carrying automatic_ Jackson would have been in the former official seemed primarily the various military agencies In town kept their doors locked and weapons stopped cars and St. Peters area at the time Finn interested in "influencing legis­Beirut about terrorist threats. guns loaded, as more than 100 searched passing freight trains. died. lation on Capitol Hill." "There was a lot of specific stuff, heavily armed officers using A man with an appearance "Noel Koch's advocacy for the but it wasn't getting to the right dogs and helicopters conducted similar to Jackson's was picked Some residents of this com­Special Operations Forces is well people," he wrote. the hunt for Michael Jackson, 41, up hitchhiking in the area, but munity of 1,200 people heeded known," said Sims. "I suspect Marine officials complained of Indianapolis. later was cleared and released. warnings to stay home. whatever he has written is aimed after the attack that the Intelli­
Police announced that a man 'Til guarantee you I had all the at gaining support for legisla­gence was not specific enough, 
Jackson had vowed not to be initially thought to have died of doors locked, all the lights on tion." but the former team member taken alive, the Indianapolis Star head injuries when his car and all the guns loaded," said Koch wrote that he had never said the warnings were far more said. He was believed to be crashed into a light pole along Brenda Luecke, 38, a mother of before spoken about about the specific that U.S. militaryofficials armed with a sawed-off shotgun Interstate 70 late Monday in St. two small children. "It was a very Beirut bombing "because it have admitted. and a pistol. Peters, about 20 miles east of tense night. It's also been very could only cause more pain to Koch's letter was written in 
Missouri Highway Patrol Capt. Wright City, had actually cl:>een noisy for such a small, quiet people already suffering the un­support of a proposal pending John Ford said there had been shot to death. town, with helicopters buzzing bearable pain of the loss of before the Senate, which would few leads. But he said authorities Investigators said further ex­over you and police cars roaring people they loved." consolidate all the Pentagon's suspected Jackson was still in amination found that Earl Finn, by." The attack came shortly after special forces. 
The Observer /Margaret Mannion 

Children face bigger problems today, survey discloses 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Three out of four American adults think the problems facing today's children are more severe than when they were growing up, and even more are willing to pay higher taxes for better schools, drug treat­ment, and other services for kids, according to a Louis Harris survey. 
The comprehensive poll demonstrates that "the United States in the 1980s may be the first society in history in which children are distinctly worse off than adults," said Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan, D-N.Y., who joined Harris at a news confer­ence yesterday. 
At the same time, Moynihan added, it "gives us hope that the grown-ups are finally recogniz­ingthe problem." 
The first national survey of public attitudes toward the prob­lems of children found that drug abuse is perceived as the most serious, with 52 percent ofadults putting that at the top of the list. 
The survey, based on half­hour-long telephone interviews with 1, 254 adults, showed the vast majority believes a wide range of other problems facing children, including hunger, kid­napping, sexual assault, paren­tal abuse, suicide and prostitu­tion, have increased in recent years. 
The survey, commissioned by the Westinghouse Broadcasting Co.'s Group W, found that less than half of the public believes that most American children are basically happy (48 percent), or get a good education (40 per­cent), or live in a safe neighbor­hood (36 percent). 
Other findings in the July 29­August 7 survey: 
Only 43 percent felt schools are doing a good job meeting their responsibilities to children. 
Forty percent said hunger is on the rise among children. 
Only 28 percent felt the federal government was doing a good job regarding children, whilejust 34 percent gave local govern­ments a good rating. 
Barely half, 53 percent, believe that most children have loving parents. 
Teen-agers are perceived as particularly at risk. with half of the public believing that most teen-agers have sex at least oc­casionally, 43 percent believing that most teen-agers use alco­hol, and 31 percent believing that most use drugs regularly. And only 41 percent ofthose sur­veyed said American teen-agers read and write adequately. 
Among blacks, 84 percent felt that children's problems have grown worse. 
Majorities of adults said they would be willing to increase their taxes for programs to trace mis­sing children (86 percent), for drug prevention programs (83 percent), for public schools (76 percent), for day care programs (73 percent) and for parks and recreation programs (70 per­cent). And 70 percent said they at least "somewhat approve" of the government providing birth control services for teen-agers. 
Given the sampling size of 1, 254 adults, the survey has a margin of error of 3 percentage points in either direction. 


ATTENTION 
Business Plan Contest 

Entrepreneurial Society Contestants 
There will be a special meeting between business advisory council members and contestants. The meeting will be held on THURSDAY, SEPT. 25th, 1986 in ROOM 122 HAYES HEALY at 4:15 p.m. All contestants must attend. If you have a conflict, contact Ray Powers or Dean Raymond. 
Notre DaDie Avenue Apartments 
NOWJIENTING FOB FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Mmc in h«.:forL' 10/1/86 and gL't ONE MONTH FREE RENT Offiq at 8lO NO Ave 234-6647 
Call Anytime 


Accent 
Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 6 

Cluchey: from inmate to actor 
LAURA LINDNER 
features writer 

Ex-San Quentin Inmate and world-renowned actor Rick Clue­hey brings playwright Samuel Beckett to Notre Dame this week. Cluchey will be performittg Be­ckett's play, "Krapp's Last Tape" "as a teaching model for theatri­cal students," he said. 
Cluchey's internationally FJC· claimed acting expertise is not based on childhood aspirations; rather It is directly related to his experience as an inmate in San Quentin from 1955 to 1966. 
Cluchey was introduced to the theater in 1957 when the San Francisco Actors' Workshop visited San Quentin with a per­formance of"Waiting for Godot." As a result of this experience a group ofinmates founded an act­ing troupe, the San Quentin Drama WorkShop. The San Fran­cisco Actor's Workshop was the audience for their first produc­tion, "Waiting for Godot." leading to an exchange of pro­fessional guidance for their productions of Beckett's "Endgame" and "Krapp's Last Tape." 
During this time Ciuchey wrote three plays, one of which, "The Cage," is based on a stage image in "Waiting for Godot." After seven productions of Beckett's plays in almost four years at San Quentin, "The Cage" premiered in regional and university theaters and was produced Off­Broadway. "It was a crusade for penal reform, a means to ed­ucate college students about prisons," said Cluchey of the play. 
In 1966 Ciuchey was paroled, along with other members of the troupe, for his skill as an actor, director, and playwright. 
Cluchey finally met Beckett in 1974. The San Quentin Drama Workshop was performing "Endgame" at the Edinburgh Festival and critics raved about the performance. When the troupe was later performing the play in Paris in Beckett's honor, ---------------------------------:--------:-_J 
the playwright sent his friends to plays reach a point of departure. the performance, wait for the end this reduction and compression the production. They returned to For Cluchey Beckett's charac-and then you leave." of the 20th century which is Beckett with high praises, ters are "disenfranchised in Cluch~y has trained his entire leading the individual to con-leading to a meeting between some way; they are bleeding life to fulfill the demands of Be-formity and the mound of earth playwright and actor. meat, people In the extremities ckett characters as they attempt is his metaphor. In Act Two we 
Ciuchey eventually joined Be-of life, people who might inhabit to search for meaning in absur-have the searing vision of Winnie ckett's company for the prisons or loony bins." Cluchey dity and doggedly struggle for buried up to her neck but still playwright's own production of relates this concept to the image answers or at least alternatives. buoyant. "Waiting for Godot." Beckett later of Winnie swallowed by the earth Along with characterization, 11ecause Beckett is reducmg directed "Endgame," "Waiting in "Happy Days," the blind and Cluchey must deal with Beckett's mankind and distilling the for Godot," and "Krapp's Last raging Ham of "Endgame," the style and various dramatic tech-human spirit there is inactivity in Tape" for the San Quentin two tramps in "Waiting for niaues. his plays. "Every action is con-troupe. Godot'' who are waiting in a tree Every Beckett play centers on verted to inaction," Cluchey said. 
The San Quentin Drama for fear of being beaten and human confusion and this Winnie is swallowed by the earth Workshop hasjust completed Its Krapp's confrontation with him-"alienation, in a Becktian sense, in 40 minutes. In Act One her sixth European tour which In-self at an early point in his life applies to dramatic structure," arms are free, in Act Two she is eluded performances in Qer-as a failed lover and alcoholic in said Cluchey. "Happy Days" en-buried to her neck and Beckett many, Denmark and France "Krapp's Last Tape." compasses this dramatic ele-ends with the metaphor of a during March, April and May In "These people, alone and ment. In Act One Winnie is seen stone. In the final dramatic form honor ofBeckett's BOth birthday. devasted in some way, are engulfed in a mound of earth to the essentials are stripped, con-Presently Cluchey is performing locusts who are entrapped in the her waist as though it is devour-fined to a certain point and the Beckett's plays Off-Broadway, bizarre journeys of life and the ing her. Beckett speaks about initial action is now inaction. 
and the version of "Krapp's Last human condition," said Cluchey. Tape" that Cluchey brings to Although Beckett plays are dlf­Notre Dame was directed by Be· ficult for even the most sophis­
'Ibe a:.N1ft 
w 
Beckett's use of "searing 
images, haunting and cosmic in 
resonance, as he strips down and 
refines allows him to make use 
of his incredible dramatic faculty 
in his relationship to his actors 
and actresses," said Cluchey. 
Contrary to what many critics 
believe, Beckett allows an area 
of dramatic license within the 
context of his play. Cluchey uses 
"Krapp's Last Tape" as an exam­
ple. Beckett gave Cluchey the 
tonal relationship and physical 
spine but Cluchey was instructed 
to find the internal character, 
specifically the anger of a man 
confined to a den, work table and 
the shadows of life. 
Samuel Beckett is always the 
master in control of his work, not 
the emotionally unstable person 
suffering from the disabilities in­
dicated by his characters, but his 
art is rooted in personal experi­
ence, according to Cluchey. "Life 
is imitating art. and art is imitat­
ing life, for we always report 
creatively upon ourselves. Whe­
ther we are writing poetry, 
fiction, novels or plays we em­
bellish our own life but in the 
work itself, we are masked." said 
Cluchey. 
Cluchey once asked Beckett 
his method of writing. Beckett 
replied, "I begin with a blank 
page, close my eyes and hear a 
voice. I write what he says, put 
it away and later apply my critical 
intelligence. I take no sides. I am 
interested in the shape of ideas. 
There is a wonderful sentence in 
Augustine. 'Do not despair; one 
of the thieves was saved. Do not 
presume; one of the thieves was 
damned.· That sentence has a 
wonderful shape. It is the shape 
that matters." The key for Be­
ckett is 51. Augustine and his 
words are used in "Waiting for 
Godot." Beckett has often been 
labeled a negative theologist but 
according to Cluchey this does 
not apply. "Beckett suffers visibly 
from all images of world pain 
and l1is works focus on the 
wretchedness of man without 
God; therefore he is not a god­
less man. Beckett is definitely a 
private person because he is not 
going to interfere in anyone's 
opinion or take a position, and 
for this reason the critics have 
taken advantage of him," said 
Cluchey. 
Now revenge is coming to Be­
ckett. Everyone is returning to 
one of the 20th century's 
greatest playwrights. His Off­
Broadway productions continue 
to sell out despite criticism in 
New York. Cluchey can't envision 
a more wonderful way for the 
great playwright and close friend 
to round off his career. 
Cluchey will be performing "Krapp's Last Tape" at Washington Hall Sept. 24-26 at 8:10p.m. Tickets are available at the Washinqton Hall ticket office. 

ckett. tlcated theater audiences, prison 
Cluchey was the first American Inmates have no trouble com­to win the Italian critics award prehending his message, accor­"Prlmo Crltlca" In 1985. Cluchey ding to Cluchey. The San Quen­also won an Obie, Off-tin inmates, while viewing Broadway's highest award, in "Waiting for Godot," found per­1982 for David Mamet's "Ed-sonal points of reference In that mond," his only performance of prison auditorium, although for non-Becktlan drama. most, it was their first exposure 
It is this background that has to the theater. "I saw myself as given Cluchey unique insight Lucky with the rope around my Into the understanding of Be· neck and the two tramps were ckett's absurd1st style. It has the audience around me," said been widely commented in both Cluchey. "We were all waitingand books and lectures that Beckett's this is what theater is all about. characters in his novels and You arrive at the theater, walt for 
Want to get more Involved wHh the feature department? 
Applications now bein& accepted for the following positions: 
•
Features Copy Editors 

•
Assistant:Featares Editor 


Appllcatao...bJ5p.&, SefL25 ....~ elllc:e.lniiiMfa..lertue. C.....MuJJ...,. at2Jt.53Ufaraenlld....O.. 

View~_o_i_n_t_______.we.._dnes....... pa-ge7
day._...Septe-mbe-r24._1986-­

University ignores·alcohol policy on game day 
Recently, I wandered out to Green Field on a sunny Saturday morning to stretch my legs and escape the pressures of col­lege life. Expecting to be alone, I instead found myself in the midst of a wild frenzy ofdrunkenness, swearing. and other non­sociable behavior. 
Mark Dickinson 
guest column 

I stared in disbelief and asked myself how this could be happening at a Univer­sity which so clearly states no one can drink a beer outside the dark confines of his own closet. I knew the University wasn't joking since many of my friends had written checks to pay for the hideous crime of walking in a hallway with a beer. 
Worse. I had seen students shipped off to unknown offices in the Administrative building. sent for psychological treat­ment. and told to perform a community service as penance for some of the same 
alcohol induced behavior I was now wit­
nessing. 
Then I remembered. This was a home 

football game. 
I shuddered to think of the army of security personnel that would be thun­dering down upon this gathering if it were taking place on a Tuesday afternoon.· Today none were around. 
What was different about today? Why was it suddenly fine to drink to excess in public? The students were the same. DuLac was the same. The only noticeable difference was the prescence of alumni. Yet how could they change the interpre­tation of the rules'? 
I thought about why the University chose to ignore its stance on alcohol this day and decided the rules just couldn't be enforced, but I knew that was a cop out. Only one answer remained -the Uni­versity chose to ignore the situation for fear of upsetting these benefactors of the 
Warnings of another Vietnam illegitimate 
Tile debate amon~ U.S. citizens and political operatives over American fun­din~ of the 'contra· rebels seekin~ to dis­pose of the Orlena novernment has be­come an emotional issue for all involved. Those who sec reasons of national secur­ity as justification for American military involvement in Central America arc in bit­ter conflict with warnin~s of irnpcndinn 
U.S. involvement on a level rcsemblin~ that of Vietnam. 
Robert Kuehn 
Under a Different Light 
A combination of limited success due to inexperienced handlers. extreme climate and concerns over possible Soviet retaliation lws caused a temporary hold on the operation. racin~ escalation in that Country's war of wills with the Soviet Union over continued supply of U.S equipment throu~h l'akistan and ~ivcn doubts about U.S. committments to defend Pakistan anainst Soviet ag~rcs­sion. lca(Jcrs of that country arc uneasy. Should Soviet retaliation become a reality, a direct American-Soviet con­frontation may well be inevitable. 
The fact is that talk of U.S. intervention on Pakistan's behalf directly against the 
YaJ'REHAVING TR(}{)­YOU Bl&11//THMORe THAN /JeT I'M J/6T THE HA!RaJT; HAVING 
j AREN'T YOU, lrf/K&? ~ I ~"~VY~~ 
Soviet Union has not raised concerns of activists. as their attention span is solely on the contra issue which possesses a level of intensity and potential for con­frontration nowhere near that resulting from our lie with Pakistan. 
The con~ressional and activist criticism over Nicaragua concerns a country with which our military involvement is quite modest and where chances of escalation to superpower confrontation are quite slim. Such criticism is misplaced and in­consistent when considering the blatant American military connection with such Third World countries as Pakistan where dan~er for escalation is much greater. 
While I do not question the sincerity and motives of the grassroots peace movement against 'contra' funding. I do question those political and social leaders who sound a rallying cry and warn of an­otller Vietnam. Such warnings are il­legitimate and illogical when considering American activity elsewhere. If it is indeed dan~erous policy to combat communism on a small military scale in a tiny country in our own backyard. surely it must be dramatically more so for a large, complex military operation in the Soviet's back­yard. 
Ro/Jert Kuehn is a sophomore aeronauti­cal engineering student am/ is a regular Viewpoint columnist 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
University. Rather than stepping on toes by telling the alumni to put away their alcohol. the Administration provided a Saturday Alcohol Policy Escape Clause. 
This was the only way I could justify such a blatant discrepancy between what I knew existed in DuLac and what I was witnessing. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Security's jurisdiction comes under fire 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame Security has informed the two alumni that were mugged on Green Field at 8:30 p.m. after the Michigan game that they will do all that they can. But what can Notre Dame Security do? Recent events have led me to question their ability and jurisdiction. Either Rex Rackow has not clearly defined Notre Dame Security's role or he has dis­regarded its traditional role. In either case, questions remain concerning what Notre Dame Security can and cannot do for students, faculty and staff. 
I do know what Notre Dame Security cannot do for us. They are consistently unable to prevent VCR. stereo and bicycle theft from dorms on campus. They can­not prevent numerous counts of van­dalism and burglary of cars. They also cannot prevent muggings on Green Field. My dorm alone has been burglarized on at least 5 separate occasions in the last 3 years. Two friends have had car win-
I tried to get another opinion from an alumnus wearing a class of '64 T-shirt but h~ was too busy trying to maintain his balance and keep his breakfast down to help me with my senseless questions. 
Mark Dickinson is a senior American Studies major. 

JU5T 
a/HAT?
I 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ... ......... Margie Kersten News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
dows broken and the stereo stolen. This is not to mention my friends who were mugged. 
In spite of Security's inability to keep the Notre Dame campus secure, they have extended their power off-campus in what I believe to be a breach ofjurisdic­tion. Of course, we have been given ex­planations such as "protection of Notre Dame students," "observation," and my favorite, that of the Notre Dame Security person who was looking for her husband who was involved with a raid as a member of the Roseland Police Department. AIL some or none of these reasons may be true. In any case, Security's presence raised questions during and after the raid. Notre Dame Security may havejuris­diction at these raids. If so, Rex Rackow should clarify this policy with us. If not we still deserve a reasonable explanation. Furthermore, Notre Dame Security should concentrate on keeping the campus safe and secure before they ex­tend themselves off-campus. 
Anthony D. Watson Sarin Hall 
Quote of the day 
"If Jesus Christ were to come to· day, people would not even crucify Him. They would ask Him to dinner, and bear what He bad to say, and make fun of it." 
Thomas Carlyle (1795-1881) 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager • •.....•..... Chris Bowler Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Welmholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
Founded November 3, 1966 
j I l I 
j 

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC tennis team beat St. Francis by the score of 6-3. Winners for SMC were Kate McDevitt, Shaun Boyd, Charlene Szajko, and Buffy Heinz in singles. Doubles winners were the teams ofHeinz and Kim Drahota, and Boyd and Sandy Hickey. -The Observer 
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-Purdue game will be held this Friday, September 26, at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center. All pep rallies for the rest of the year will be held in Stepan Center. -The Observer 
The Gymnastics Club will have a meeting today at 4 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. All members who signed up as well as current members should attend. For more information call Robert Lee at 283-1872. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will have a meeting tonight at 
6:30 at the boathouse on St. Joseph's Lake. Members are reminded to bring proof of insurance. For more information call Tony Fink at 283-1082. -The Observer 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordprocesslng resumes. etc. 
Typeset quality. 287-9024. 
Wordprocessl ng-Typing 272-8827 
ANY DIPLOMACY PLAYERS OUT THERE? CALL DAVE 1443 
JAMISON INN Part time positions 
available in housekeeping and desk 
work. Please call 277-9682.

t 
BED & BREAKFAST. 2 NITE MIN. 15

l 
MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 291-7845. 
LOST/FOUND 
IRREPLACEABLE! LOST MY SET OF SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS! LOST ON GREEN FIELD OR ON WAY TO THE GAME. CASH REWARD OF­FERED. IF FOUND CALL KAREN AT 277-5295 OR 272-1441. 
MISSING: DARK BLUE BACKPACK WITH BROWN TRIMMING-EASTMAN. LAST SEEN AT THE NO BOOKSTORE LOBBY TUES SEPT 16. WOULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDENTALLY PICKED IT UP PLEASE RETURN IT. CALL ANA MARIA AT 272-4363. 
RED JANSPORT BACKPACK.SHARP CALCULATOR.PSYCHOLOGY BOOK. AND STUDENT 10. LAST SEEN IN THE EMPLOYEE LOCKERS OF NORTH DINING HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 2148. 
FOUND: JEAN JACKET AT GAME. PLEASE CALL 284-4273 TO IDENTIFY. 
Found: gold bracelet near towers on 
Friday P.M. Call£3599 to identify. 
TIX LOST AT MICHIGAN GAME. I'D LIKE TO CATCH ANOTHER GAME THIS SEASON. THEY WERE IN SEC­TION 32. ROW 35. PLEASE CALL MISSY 272-5465. 
LOST FRESH WATER PEARL BRACELET NEAR FISHER. MOR­RISEY OR LEWIS ON SATURDAY PlEASE CAlL JENNIFER AT 3620. REWARD. 
LOST WATCH. VERY SENTIMENTAL GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY BULIVA. ENGRAVING ON BACK :To Steve. love mom and dad. 1225113 PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 4659 WITH INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 PANGBORN.. REWARD OFFERED !!!!!! 
FOUND· CALCULATOR ON THE SHUTTlE FRIDAY. 9-19. CALL ELIZABETH 284-5013 TO CLAIM 
Lost: A light blue bookbag that was lost 9-22-86 somewhere between the South dining hall and Fisher hall. If found call £1958 and ask for John.

i I 
l 
WANTED 
TYPISTS-$500 weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 975. Elizabeth. NJ 07207 
Help wanted part time. Computer retail store. Call 277-5026. 
Ride Needed this weekend to Twin Citles.MN call Rachael 284-5181. 
BABYSITTER WANTED. 6-12 HRS. A WK FLEXIBLE. 287-3315. 
SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is now hiring children's ski Instructors for the winter season. Salary plus room & board. Contact Martha Mandel or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-291 1. 
NEEDED: TWO PURDUE GA'S. CALL ROB -3467 
HELP! MY FRIEND AND I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS THE WEEKEND OF OCT. 4 TO LEAVE FRI AND RETURN SUN. WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT 4304. 
HELP!!! Need a ride to COLUM­BUS.Ohlo !v.!6 or back !128. Desperate. Call Beth 4068 
Female Roommate wanted. 
Senior-Grad. Share 2 Bdrm !urn apt gas htd. $345. 272-6594 after 7 
Wanted-models for hair show at Uni­versity Park Mall-Medium length to short hair. Sept.21v.!9. Oct.s-6. 
Oct.11112. Free-call 277-4800 Ext.498. 
part time waitresses and bartenders 
needed at smltty's coney Island tap. 125 no. michigan. south bend. Must be 21. 
FOR SALE 

USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS AUDIOPHILES 
Phase Linear Autocorrelator (noise re­duction lor all sources)-$100: Audio Pulse Digital Time Delay (to reproduce concert hall ambience: Incorporates a 
25 watvchannel amp. You supply second pair of speakers.) -$200: Hafler 110 Preamp (audiophile quality. rack-mountable) -$150. Also have records (many digital and 112 speed 
masters) and pre·recorded classical 
cassettes. Call 277-5912 or 239-7133. 
FOR SALE One King 4B symphony-quality trom­bone with F attachment -5700 or best serious offer. One Olds tenor student trombone -S 100. Call Kelly Havens at 239-5637 mornings and afternoons. 
TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES COLLEGIATE RENTALS. FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. 
FOR SALE One GE Llghfn'Easy Steam and Dry Iron with a full-size. collabsible ironing board. pad. and cover.-S25. Call Kelly Havens at 239-5637 mornings and af­
ternoons. 
1933 Studebaker ROCKNE Mint con­dition. Call Clay Hamlin 283-1384 
TICKETS 
TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE. 255-1343 AFTER 5:30. 
I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tickets desperately! Call Mike at 283-1655. 
Help a young.dlslraughl student who needs GA TIX to PURDUE game. Life hangs In balance.£2072. 
NEED 2GA PITT TICKETS CALL 312­684-8326 COLLECT 
Needed: 2 GAs for Air Force. Call X2134. 
HELP!!!!!!!!! 
I desperately need student or GA tick­ets for the PITTSBURGH and PENN STATE 
games. 
(Yes. I am a PA native') If you can help. please call Michele at x3566. 
NEED 4 GA PITT TICKETS. CALL 277­0194. 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'A FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL M.B. X3029 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL CATH AT 284-4232. 
NEEDED: AIR FORCE GA'S 284­4350.283-2344. 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL SUE 284-4295. 
I NEED 6 PURDUE GA TIX. FAMILY ARRIVES FRI. DON'T NEED TIX TO BE TOGETHER. PLEASE CALL PAUL £2247 OR 2317 
NEEDED:ONE PURDUE TICKET.ANY TYPE.TOP DOLLAR PLUS PLEASE HELP ME.CALL PETE AT 232-9534 AT NIGHT OR EARLY MORNING. PLEASE PLEASE.THANK YOU THANK YOU 
I NEED THREE PURDUE TIX-EITHER STUDENT OR GA. CALL DOC £3380. 
Need GA's for Purdue and Pitt. Call 277-9794. 
Help! Need 2 Purdue student or GA tlx. Call 272-9340. Big S 
NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT-CALL ANNIE AT 2756 
NEED MONEY? TRADE S FOR PURDUE TIX. CHRIS1736 
NEED! 4 GA PURDUE TIX -CALL RENEE 2930 
NEED 2 PITT TIX r 3364 
HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! CALL TOM AT 1774. 
Help 
The Air Force won't be the only ones 
grounded In South Bend If I cannot get four NO'Air Farce tickets. I'd really like to go home for Fall Break In something other than a 
Hearse. 
Please call Rich 283-3482 
NEED 3 STUDENT OR GA'S FOR PURDUE. CALL TOM AT 1679. 
Stepan Center court time requests are now available in the Student Activities Office, third floor of Lafortune. Deadline for applying is Friday, September 26. -The Observer 
Officials for interhall soccer, grad football, and women's interhall flag football are still needed. If interested call the NVA office at 239-6690. -The Observer 
The Domer runs are coming! Deadline to sign up for the Domer runs is today. Teams may enter individually or as a whole. Sign up at the dining halls tonight or at the NVA office. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics announces that It Is offering two eve­ning aerobics classes. "Late Night at the Rock" meets every Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. Registratien may be done at the NVA office. A complete listing of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer. 
Sox number remains three 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Rick Manning hit a three-run homer and Paul Molitor went 3-for-4 with two RBI to boost the Milwaukee Brewers to an 8-5 victory last night over the American League East­leading Boston Red Sox. 
Boston's magic number to clinch its first division title in 11 years remained at three because New York and Toronto, tied for second place, both won. 
Tim Leary, 10-12, gave up eight hits and four runs In five innings for his first win since Aug. 12. 
Correction 
The volleyball pictured on yes­terday's back page was incor­rectly identified as ~thy Baker. It was actually Zanette Bennett. The Observer regrets the error. 
Tht• Ohsert't'r :\otrt· Damt· olfin:. lontt·J on tht· third tloor of I.JI·orrune Srudt·nr ( .t'nll'r. ;Kcepl' da,,ilkd adn·rri,Jn~ from') J m llnltl ·f r m. . .\londa\ throu~h Frida\ lbe Ohsert't'r ~aim .\Ian·, ol'fin·. loutnl on the thin! tloor of lla~~ar Colk~t· <xntt·r. J<T<'P" da"iJ,.. d, from 12 .~o p m until.~ p.m...\lon· Jay thou~h frida\· lkaJiint· t<>r nt·xt·dJ\ da"itlnb '' -~ p m .-\11 da"ilit-J, mu't lw prt·pat<l. either in p..r,on or h\ mail <ltar~e i' I 0 <Tnh per lln·t·harac· 
""' ..r Jay. 
Need 2 GA's for Pirt. Call 288-2912. 
Help!Need 3 Purdue Tlx Stud. or GA Call Woody 272-6078. 
I NEED PURDUE GA's.272-6306 
NEED 4-6 TICKETS FOR THE PURDUE GAME. PLEASES CONTACT PAT AT 1649 
NEED 10 PURDUE TIX. MOM WILL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 277-0548. 
NEED 6 PURDUE GAS MIKE 2535 
NEED 1 PURDUE STUDENT TICKET ­EILEEN 288-1941 
DESPERATELY NEED 6 GA's and 2 Student Tlx to Purdue Game!! Call ED at 288-5599 
Tlxs needed for PITT game Call 1·303· 596·0095 
WILL TRADE TWO GA PITT FOR TWO GA AIR FORCE. CALL SHAWN (614) 464-5445. 
HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S.BEST OFFER BY FRI.CALL MARK 4016 
HAVE 2 PITT GA's. NEED 2 PURDUE GA's AND 4 ALABAMA TIX. CALL CRUISER AT 1988 OR PAT AT 1712. 
SPENT All LAST WEEKEND STUDY­ING ORGO & BIO-want to get WILD this weekend w-frlend at PURDUE game. NEED 1 TICKET-ANY PRICE! ANGELA 3435 
NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY BOY. WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS CALL JOE 239-7471 OR 283-1931. THANKS 
NEED ONE PURDUE STUDENT TICKET 
He's coming no matter what. and we don't want to leave a Purdue guy In our room without some~ 
body watching him. So please call Max at x1384. 
I NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE. PLEASE CALL ANNETTE 284-4312. 
NEED 8 GA'S FOR PITT GAME. 
P/.EASE HELP' CALL MARY AT 784 
4419. 
NEED 2 PURDUE GA's. Will trade (Air Force GA's) or pay CASH. Call Mike at 277-3786 
1 KEEP THE TRADITION ALIVE NEED 6 AIR FORCE GA'S CALl STEVE £1197 
LET'S MAKE A DEAL!!! I've got two GA's for AIR FORCE; I need two GA's for SMU. Let's talk .... Call Dennis 283­4075 or 239-5095. 
PSST. BUDDY. VA YOU. DON'T LOOK AROUND. YOU CAN'T SEE ME. BUT IF YOU NEED PURDUE TIX. I'M YOUR MAN. CALL ME. THE DUDE. 232-6153. 
I NEED ONE PURDUE TICKET. WILL BUY OR TRADE MY PITT TICK. 288­1958 
PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL 3520 
.•Nee_d 6 GA tix for Purdue game. (Need afleast 4 together) Will pay big 55S. Call 2956 and ask for Marla. 
I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PARENTS FOR PITT GAME. KEEP ME FROM BREAK­ING THEIR HEARTS. CALL PETE AFTER 8. 288-2348. 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'S! CALL RON 283-3659 
Need 2-4 Purdue student tickets. Call 272-2608 5555 
'84 SMC alums return to the Dome. Need 2 Purdue GA's. 555 Call 277­4752. 
NEED PITT TICKETS STUD OR GA ­1431 JON.-1428 TODD WILL PAY CASH or TRADE 
NEED TX'S FOR PURDUE!CALL1272 
My Mom's never seen an Irish game! Please sell me 2 Purdue tix!! She'll 
pay big $51 Kevin at 4277. 
I HAVE 2 PURDUE GAs. BEST OFFER LEAVE MESSAGE 
CRAIG 288 8199. Wll TRADE TWO GA AIR FORCE FOR TWO GA PITT. CALL 277-1359 BE­TWEEN 6PM AND 10PM 
PURDUE GAs FOR SALE.277-0296 
NEED 2 GA'S TO NO-ALABAMA GAME. CALL 1-404-461-4514 AND ASK FOR JOE. 
Desperately seeking 1 Purdue GA. Please call 284-4382. 
Mom. Dad. Uncle Richard. Uncle Tom & Aunt Marla. I'm still trying to get 5 
Purdue GA's for you. rm sure some kindhearted person will come to our 
rescue. Marie at 284-5303. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
"NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB.. T­SHIRTS COMING SOON ..EXCELLENT QUALITY COMING SOON...EXCELLENT QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB.. T­SHIRTS ONlY 58.00. ONLV 58.00. ONLY 58.00 ONLY 58.00. ONLY 58.00. ONLY 58.00 "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB.. T-SHIRTS "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB.. T-SHIRTS 
PURDUE !! PARENTS ARE COMING. DESPERATELY NEED TWO G.A.'S. 
CALL  JOHN  SCHOEN  AT  1143.  
PURDUE!!  
Hungry?  Call  THE  YELLOW  SUB­ 

MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm-1 2am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am: Sunday 4pm-10pm. 
Don't settle for some fool with nls 
stereo to handle the music at your next 
dance. We're professionals. And we're 
the largest Independent OJ business on campus. THE ONlY OJs THAT MATTER!! Pat 277-3687 Tlto 277-0973 Don 283-3675 
The authors of the ..hilarious guide for the faithful, fallen. and the in­between..GROWING UP CATHOLIC.. will be at O'LAUGHLIN AUD. WED. SEPT 24 8PM--ALL WELCOME!! 
.'........•.. '... ~ ..... ,. ·.·.. '• '. ·..•.. ·.·.. ·... 
'"• ·_. '· J• '• • 
WOMEN'S SUPPORT GROUP. THURSDAYS. 3:30-5 P.M .. UNIVER­SITY COUNSELING CENTER. CALL 239-7336 FOR INFORMATION 
Thea majors and other Interested stu­dents· Do not miss the Informal dis­cussion with Father Burtchaell tonight 
at 9:45 PM In 341 O'Shaughnessy. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY STEVE ! love your buddy 
PSPSPSPSPSPSPS PATTY SUE ..THE TORCH" STAGER TURNS 22 TODAY SHE WILL BE ACCEPTING BIRTHDAY KISSES. OBSCENE CALLS AND FREE DRINKS FOR THE NEXT 6 7 MONTHS IN HOLY CROSS HAPPY BIRTHDAY PS 
TOASTMASTERS 
Toastmasters Is back! Come join us. 
WED SEPT 24 7PM RM 223 HAYES 
HEALY New members welcome! 
''TOASTMASTERS''TOASTMASTERS'' WED SEPT 24 7PM RM 223 HAYES HEALY ''TOASTMASTERS''TOASTMASTERS'' 
Neighborhood Study Help Program 
needs tutors for the following centers: 
Marquette School Tue-Thu 2:30-3:30 Call Dave at 1306 South Bend Housing Authority Tue-Thu 4:00-5.00 Call John 
at 1245 Further questions about tutor­
Ing for these schools should be di­rected to Tom Pigott at 1788. NSHP -­
committed to the education of the chil­
dren of South Bend 
IS THIS RUSSIA? COMING SOON 
.. Ay. there·s the rub... William Shake­speare FROTTAGE...COMING SOON TO 401 WALSH. 
HELLO. K-TOWN. I'M BUSIER THAN YOU CAN BELIEVE JUST WANTED TO 
SAY HI 
ATTENTION ALL SOUTHERN CAL LOVERS! If you are Interested In dis­
count flights for Xmas & other breaks. 
I can get great fares for groups of 25 or more. Call for Info Michelle 284­5096. 
SUZANNE. hey I know this Is late but thanks for driving me to the dentist!' And thanks for driving Thursday night'! We both know that my condi­tion was the same .... the only thing that 
was different was the anesthetic! JLB ··Tron·· 
To this week's 3 B-Day girls: 
HOT MAMMA HAMANN SCARY KERRY MCMONIGLE and REENIE DURKIN wishing Y'all the best B-Day ever.!! 
Love. Us 
Patty Sue Stager. Happy 22nd! You're one year closer to DEATH! Love. 
Janet. 
Don't worry! Pray for her. ZZZZZ. Sound 1. Sound 2. Happy 22nd Birthday. Patty Sue. You're such an ID!! Love. Peggy (Siak) 
DANCE. DANCE. DANCE with the NOOMC Council for the Retarded at Logan Center Friday. Sept. 26. 7:30 to 10 p.m. (pick up SMC at Holy Cross at 7:00). New and old volunteers wel­
come! 
.. ......... -.. .
~ 
• ·•·~--1· .... ··~·· ~~ I• t • .c•.'... "\4. I, : 

The Observer 
Wednesday, September 24, 1986 -page 9 


Johnson likes his chances against top-ranked Sooners 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla.-Just like last year, University of Miami Coach Jimmy Johnson believes his football team is superior to the top-ranked Oklahoma Sooners. 
Last year, Johnson kept his opinion to himself until after the Hurricanes beat the Sooners 27­14 at Norman, Okla. This time, Johnson is being a little brasher before the game. 
"I felt like we had the better football team last year,"Johnson said Tuesday. "I feel like we have the better football team this year." 
Johnson then offered further pregame comments about this clash between the No. I and No. 2 teams in the country. 
"It's going to be a very, very close game between two great teams and I think it will come down to which team makes the fewest mistakes," he said. 
This is only the 20th time the two top-ranked teams in The As­sociated Press poll have met, the most recent being the Oct. 19, 1985 game between No. 1 Iowa and No. 2 Michigan. Iowa won that game 12-1 0, giving the top­ranked teams a 14-.3-2 record in the matchups. 
"For every football fan, player and coach, this is the absolute ultimate in excitement," Johnson said. "You have the defending national champions playing the team that gave them their only loss last year. You've got No. 1 playing No. 2. I know the adrenaline will be flowing for everybody." 
But just moments later, Johnson changed his tune. 
"This isjust our fourth game," he said. "We've won three and we're looking to win four." 
He said for the Hurricanes to beat the Sooners, they need to slow down the Wishbone attack directed by sophomore quarter­back Jamelle Holieway. 
Last year, Holieway wasn't sharp when he took over after the Hurricanes knocked out starting quarterback Troy Aik­man. But Holieway went on to lead the Sooners to eight straight victories and the national cham­pionship. 
The maturation of Holieway isn't the only reason the Sooners may be better this year than last, according to Johnson. 
"I think this year, more than others, they have tremendous talent in the offensive line," he said. "They are more physical and quicker. They've always had great talent in the backfield, but now they have that kind of skill behind one of their best lines ever." 
Meanwhile, Miami quarterback Vinny Testaverde said, "There are things to be concerned about with Oklahoma, but I wouldn't say we're worried." 

ATTENTIONNOTRE DAMEENGINEERS 
The Procter & Gamble Company Manufacturing Management Division will be on campus for Industry Day. 
Stop by to discuss opportunities for you. 
Talk to first-level Managers in all roles to find out what working for the 1 consumer goods producer is really like. See you there! 

Ron Weissenhofer, shown here in action to earn a starting spot for the Irish. Mike against Michigan, has recovered from ii\Jury Chmiel profiles the senior linebacker below. 
Weissenhofer makes strong return 
By MIKE CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 

Despite dropping their first two games of the young 1986 cam­paign, the Irish have a new, pos­itive attitude that will translate into a good season, according to Irish linebacker Ron Weissen­hofer. 
"I see us having a good season," says Weissenhofer. "We're 0-2, but that doesn't knock us out of post-season play. 
"After we lose, it's not like a loss. We feel like we're going to get back on the winning track. Last year, it seemed like people were giving up. This year, It's to­tally opposite. It's nothing like last year at all." 
Coming into his fifth year, Weissenhofer is confident that he will finish his Notre Dame career on a positive note with this new Irish attitude and a starting role. After recovering from a broken wrist and backing Tony Furjanic for two years, Weissenhofer has finally earned a starting role for this season at Inside linebacker. 
"He's done very, very well," says Notre Dame Defensive Co­ordinator Foge Fazio. "He's done a great job for us. He's not a flashy ball player, but he does hisjob. He's one ofthose unsung heroes that just keeps pluggin' away." 
For the Irish, the 6-.3, 221­
pound, Welssenhofer calls the
..___.,...,________,..___________. signals on defense. He concen­trates his efforts In the middle of 
the line and keys the defense against the run. 
"He's our might linebacker," Fazio says. "He's got to plug the middle up, and he's got to be excellent against the inside run. 
"(Senior Mike) Kovaleski is the linebacker that is going to make most of the tackles," continues Fazio. "He plays in a position where he is protected and doesn't have to clog up the middle or hold his area down like Ron does. Ron's linebacker posi­tion is one that has to plug the 

Weissenhofer's rise to defen­sive signal caller does not suprise those who have followed his career through the rough, run-oriented Chicago Catholic League. At Saint Rita High School In Chicago, Weissenhofer was a standout linebacker who won consensus prep All-American 


HAIRCUT 
ND Apparel Headquarters 15% OFF EVERYTHING IN STORE! 
SPECIAL!!
except sweats 
Complete outfitter for intramural sports FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES NIKE & ADIDAS 
Guys and Gals $10 
D Monday -ThursdayNIKE Open Field (white) $25.00 
with Beth and Leslee D All CONVERSE Basketball shoes $15.99 
ND/SMC students only 
(except tlae •eapoa) SR 238 & Edison Rd. 
703 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka Mon-Fri 10-6 (across from King's Cellar) 
(across from Hacienda) Sat 10-5 
255-6500
277-7284 


honors. He earned four letters In 
football at the high school level 
and was recognized among the 
best incoming freshmen in 1982 
by Football News and The Sport­
ing News. 
After filling in on specialty 
teams during the 1982 season, 
Weissenhofer broke his wrist in 
two-a-day workouts just prior to 
the start of the 198.3 season and 
was sidelined for the year. With 
this year off, he was awarded his 
current year of eligibility. 
"I wanted to come back and 
play football for another year un­
der Lou Holtz," says Weissen­
hofer. Last May, Weissenhofer 
earned a degree in Marketing. 
Currently, he is enrolled In an 
MBA program in the Notre Dame 
College of Business. 
Following a year off, Weissen­
hofer assumed an increasing 
role on the Irish defensive unit. 
In 1984, he played in nine games 
and started against Colorado, 
South Carolina, and Navy. Over­
all, he totalled .35 tackles, Includ­ing 16 solos, made 48 specialty team appearances, and worked his way back to a top reserve role. 
Last year, Weissnehofer played in all but one game against LSU. In his 10 outings, he had one start and made 41 tackles. He also made 70 specialty team ap­pearances. 
Fazio is also pleased with the inside linebacker and his perfor­mance which has netted 1.3 tackles, including one incredible drop for a loss against Michigan State. 
"He really played very well In the third quarter versus Michigan State," says Fazio. "He made a play that was the best to date." 
In replacing Furjanlc as the sig­nal caller, Welssenhofer feels no pressure to duplicate Furjanlc's statistics. Welssenhofer does, however, feel confortable In his position. 
"I definitely enjoy defending against the run . . . taking on blocks, getting off blocks, and making the tackle," says Wels­senhofer. "It's like the good old Catholic League Style of play." 
Overall, the veteran likes what he sees in the new coaching staff and believes that the Irish will continue to Improve. 
"I'm pretty Impressed by Coach Holtz," says Welssen­hofer. "His coaching staff Is one of the best In the nation. 
"There's always room for Im­provement and I think we're coming along pretty well. If we could alleviate the turnovers, we'd be 2-0 Instead of 0-2 right now. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 24, 1986-page 10 

Aurelio Lopez and the Houston Astros are all smiles these days as they close in on the National League West title. Mike Scott is 
Wilkins agrees to deal with Hawks 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA Atlanta's Dominique Wilkins, the NBA's top scorer last season, Tuesday signed a new five-year, $6..3 mil­lion contract with the Hawks that he negotiated without the help of his agent. 
"We're happy to announce that Dominique has signed a contract that secures the Hawks' future for the next five years," Hawks' Pres­ident and General Manager Stan Kasten said at a news confer­ence. "It will provide Dominique with lifetime security." 
The 26-year-old Wilkins, who came to the news conference with his mother, Gertrude Baker, said his signing without an agent was "not unprecedented." 
He said he had discussions with his agent, Patrick Healy, but ''wanted to get It over with." 
"It's not unusual," Wilkins said. "Guys are getting much smarter 
Tiger 
continued/rom page 12 
"I just wanted to pay some people back. so I passed instead of taking the shot." he says. "But Randy missed all his shots, and Kevin Kade told me coach was getting upset, so I had better shoot. 
"So the next time I got got the ball, I just took It myself and scored. Kevin wanted the assist on the goal."
r Against Northwestern,I McCourt recorded the first hat trick on the team since Rich Her­
~ 
degen did It on the last game of
I 
the 1984 season.
I 
"Ijust missed It in the Michigan
i 
game, so I was glad to finally get
i 
it." he says.
l 
Besides having confidence in 
I 
t his scoring. McCourt is also one of the most colorful characters on the Irish squad. His nick­
name, Tiger, was given to him
I 
by his uncle who was a Missouri
I 
Tigers alumnus.
i 
On the field he Is not afraid to
I 
try a bicycle kick on goal. This
l 
I 
year he has not connected on several attempts, though he did score on one last year. 
I 
I 'Tm glad he has the confi­dence to try something like that." says Graca "''d rather he do 
other things, but I'm happy that 
he has the confidence that the 
shot will go ln." 
after they've been around a few years." 
The 6-foot-8 Wilkins was drafted by the Utah Jazz in 1982, then traded to Atlanta for John Drew, Freeman Williams and cash. 
The former University of Geor­gia star, who has become known for his exciting drives to the bas­ket and remarkable leaping abil­ity, has averaged 24. 1 points in four years, including .30..3 last season when he led the league and was named by league coaches to the Eastern Confer­ence All-Star team. 

"It's great to be able to play the next five years with security," Wilkins said. 
Did you sign up 
to be a new member of The Observer's photography staff? 
Ifso, then you will want to be at the first meeting for new photographers. Meet at 7:30pm on Thursday, September 25, in The Observer's new offices on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Questions? Call Jim Carroll at 239-5313. 
IllALUMNI=====~ 
~CLUB 
Wednesday: 50¢ Well Drinks 
Thursday: Imports $1 
Friday: Lunch 11 :30 -1:30 Pizza & Subs 
(MUST BE 21) 
National League pitchers battle for Cy Young honors 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON · Los Angeles' Fer­nando Valenzuela, the National League's first 20-game winner this season, and Houston's strikeout ace Mike Scott appear to be the top candidates for the NL's Cy Young Award. 
The Dodgers are pushing Valenzuela, who pitched a two­hitter against the Astros Monday night to reach he 20-victory mark for the first time in his career. He's also the first Dodgers' 20­game winner since Tommy John In 1977 and the first Mexican­born m~or leaguer to win 20 games in a season. 
The Astros, commanding leaders In the National League West. are boosting Scott, 17-10, who leads the league with 285 strikeouts, in earned run average with 2..3.3 and in innings pitched with 259 1-.3. 
"It depends on what you em­phasize," Scott said. "If you go by earned run average and strikeouts, I've got a pretty good shot." 
Valenzuela, who won the award as a rookie in 1981, said he's not worrying about winning again. 
"''ve got nothing to do with the Cy Young voting." Valenzuela said. "All I can do is pitch my best. But I'd much rather be in this clubhouse than theirs." 
Astros third baseman Phil Garner thinks the voting will be close. 
"You've got to look at Scott's ERA and strikeouts and be im­pressed," Garner said. "My vote goes to Scott. But Fernando never beats himself. He pitches well, hits well and cuts off a lot of hits with his glove. He's just one tough pitcher." 
Valenzuela, 20-10, and Scott could be pressed for the award by Pittsburgh's Rick Rhoden, 15­10. 
With no chance of winning the division title, the Dodgers have turned their attention to helping Valenzuela win the Cy Young honor. 
!DOMER ~~;, · i !RUNS 5 
e • 3 AND 6 MILE RUNS e : • FIRST HALL COMPETITION : e • TROPHIES AND DOOR PRIZES e : • T-SHIRTS TO ALL RUNNERS : e • $4 ENTRY FEE e 
• SIGN UP AT NVA e 
i DEADLINE TODAY! i 
'······················ 
._..~~~~~~~..-.~~~~~~~~~ 
t THE IMPACT OF SCIENCE t : AND TECHNOLOGY ON SOCIETY: 
! A Series of Lectures to Inaugurate the! ' PROGRAM IN SCIENCE. TECHNOLOGY. AND VALUES' t at the tf UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME f 
t t 
: LANGDON WINNER : t Professor of Politics t t Department of Science and Technologyt t Studies t t Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute t 
: "TECHNOLOGICAL FRONTIERS: t AND HUMAN INTEGRITY" t 
t t
t 7:30 P.M. t 
Thursday, September 25. 1986 : Memorial Library Auditorium : 
tProfessor Winner. a leading scholar in the field of t ttechnology studies. ts the author of Autonomous t tTecbnolOJ!Y: Tecbnlcs-out-of-l:ont.rolas a Theme in t PoUt.iCill Thought (MIT. 1977) and The Reactor andthe '6 IYha!e(Univ. of Chicago.I986). 6' 
t t 

r----~-~--------· --~--­
-------~-· 
-· 
l I

'JI['~~~~----------------------------------------------------W•e•d•n.es.da•y•'•Se•p-te•m•b•er.~_..l•9•86 j 
__-.p.ag•e--ll 1 I Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson l l j 
l 
I 
~ 
l 
I 
I 
l 
i I ( I I 
1 I j 
j ~ 
4 
1 
I l 
j
God as a kid tries to make a chicken in his room. 
i 




Campus 
9:00-.3:.30 p.m.: University Press "Dirty Book Sale", Memorial Library Concourse 10:00-12:00 p.m.: Interviews, Joel Mugge, director, Center for Global Service & Education, Center For Social Concerns 
12:10 -1 :00 p.m.: Closed meeting of Alcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
12:15 -I:15 p.m.: Center for Spirituality, Fall 1986 Series, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College 2:00-4:00 p.m.: l!lterviews, Joel Mugge, director, Center for Global Service & Education, Center For Social Concerns .3:00 p.m.: Lecture, Topic: "Central America: Roots of the Crisis", Center for Social Concerns 
.3:00p.m.: Saint Mary's Tennis, SMC vs. St. Joseph's College, Rensselaer, SMC tennis courts .3:.30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, WORD on the macin­tosh, room 1 08; Limit 12 and Writing Cllsts, room 115 Com­puting Center; call Betty to register 2.39-5604 
4:00 -5:.30 p.m.: Lecture, Exxon Distingued Visiting Scholar Series; FREE, open to public, Washington Hall 
4:20p.m.: Physics Colloquium, Speaker: Dr. Stuart Mufson, Indiana University, Bloomington; 118 Nieuwland Science 
6:15 p.m.: General Meeting. Notre Dame Circle K St. Edward's Hall 
7:00 
p.m.: PresentatiorvReception: career opportunities with Dun and Bradstreet. Upper Lounge, University Club 

7:00 
p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "Touch of Evil", O'Shaughnessy Loft 

7:00 
-8:00: ND-SMC Right to Life Film Series, "The Silent Scream", Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's College 

7:00 
-9:00 p.m.: International Student Lecture Series, Speaker: University president Father Theodore Hesburgh Memorial Library Auditorium 


7:.30 p.m. Lecture, Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Se­ries; Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00 p.m.: Lecture, "Growing Up Catholic", O'Laughlln Auditorium 
8:10 p.m.: Play, "Krapp's last Tape", Tickets: $6 and $5, available at Washington Hall 
ACROSS 1 Attention­getting sound 5 "Life is-" 
(John Gay) 10 Like good wine 14 Phi -Kappa 
15 Milk: comb. 
form 16 Heavy cart 17 Leavings 

18 "-Limits" 19 Pile of hay 20 Start of quote 23 Aid and­
24 Hospice 25 "Butterfield 8" 
author 28 So soon 31 Quebec 
peninsula 
35 Reversible 
fabric 37 Steal from 39 "Whatever ­
wants..." 40 Sash 
41 Author of 
quote 44 Singer Cole 45 Outer coat 
of cheese 47 Jolly: Fr. 

48 Scold 50 Shopping spot 52 Alphabet run 54 Evita 
55 Tree 57 De -(super­
fluous) 59 End of quote 67 Highly excited 
The Daily Crossword 
68 Gay­69 Exile isle 70 Actor Auber­
jonois 71 Arab princes 
72 Blind part 73 Boulder Dam 
lake 74 Wash 75 Sensible 
DOWN 1 "When I was -" (Tarkington) 21dol 
3 "-, Brute?" 4 Eye makeup 5 Isolated 
6 Sprightly 7 Before plasm 
or derm 8 Printer's term 9 Body trunks 
91986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 9/24/86 

10 Certain gland 11 Courage 12 Apiece 13 Actor Dick 
Van­
21 Disconcert 22 Sch. subj. 25 Aromas 26 Nun's dress 
27-acid 29 Early films' 
Stu 30 In addition 32 Sub's device 
33 Socrates' 
pupil 34 Ingested 36 Cask 38 Hair style 
All Rights Reserved 
42 Sweet potato 
43 Station 46 Dug out mud 49 Constrain 
51 Pixy 53 Different ones 56 Listless one 58 Singer Della 
59 Friendly 60 Molding 61 Mrs. Chaplin 62 Branches 
63 Triplet 64 Actress Raines 65 Abba of lsr. 66 Cloy 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 
AT 0 'I'
A L T L E • " N
L 0 M A A P I A E D D I E LONI IRON ANOSE S K I N F L I .~ ~,.H.~~
IIIIIIT A E L A D 0 E N S W 0 B B L Y C L E F IS. 
0 PER A C 0 I F FlU R E lilt•GAU Z Y.M A R Y 
STERCE SMILE H E A T H S U E D E S ~J_~--J_ R,fi. SEE Rllllll 
10 U I L TU N D U E  I N T E~ T A T ED 0 0 R I V 0 R  
A E G I R  G 0 R E  M 0 R 0  
T R E S S  E K E D  E W E S  

9/24/86 
1 
l 
l I 
J 
I 
I 
j 
j j 
I ( 
I 
J 
I 
l ~ 
j 
l 
j j 
l 
l 
I I I 
1 
I 
I 

l iii Mi M2 ® \ifittfffilft\1!fh1H'bitHilft\1U \M iii \ii $ii M2 Sfit/iiltl\iJfffiiU Mi $iftihllfhiitdlil M2 Sid iiiiliit\Wl ti1ftiii 5M2¥ M2 Mi M2 W \&iiiWi M2 iiftliiiiM\&M2 ¥AWI E iii W2 \il 
All the President's Men 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00  $1.00  
Engineering Aud.  No Food or Drinks Allowed  
..  ~  . .. ... .. .. . . ..  l'  • ,.  I'  I  


r--~-~-----------~ 
--------~ -~---­


Wednesday, September 24, 1986 -page 12 

I 
! t 
I 
t 
I 
I 
l 
l 
f t t 
I 
I r I i 
l ~ 
~ 
~ 
Bruce "Tiger" McCourt is flying high these days as the leading scorer of the Irish soccer 
McCourt goes after scoring mark as soccer team faces Blue Demons 

By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame soccer team's offense has found a solution to last year's lethargic offense -un­leash a Tiger at the opponents. 
This year sophomore forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt has ter­rorized opponents, registering nine goals and three assists in eight games this season. In fact. his total of 21 points is just four points shy of matching the top point total of any player last season. 
Ideally McCourt would like to reach that plateau this afternoon when Irish face the Blue Demons of DePaul at 3 p.m. at Alumni field. Last year he scored his first goal of his collegiate career against DePaul, so he thinks it would be fitting to reach another milestone against the Blue Demons. 
A native St. Louislan, McCourt and his family moved several times before settling In South Bend eight years ago. At St. 
Joseph's High School, he was the team's most valuable player all four years. He also set the school scoring record with 8I goals and 30 assists. 
Head Coach Dennis Grace had spotted McCourt in a summer camp. But before he could get McCourt, he had to wait a year. 
"Tiger had It in his heart to be at Notre Dame," says Grace. "So he spent a year over at Holy Cross." 
Because Holy Cross had no soccer program, McCourt was out of competiton for an entire year. So when he transferred to Notre Dame last year, the adjust­ment to collegiate-level soccer was a little harder. 
"Tiger had to make a big ad­justment to play the way we play," says Grace. "But going day In and day out against good com­petlton helped him." 
McCourt ended up playing in all 22 games last year. He scored six goals, one the game-winner against North Carolina­Charlotte. 

However the team suffered through an offensive slump. The team's leading scorer, forward Joe Sternberg. hadjust 25 points in 22 games. The team also set a record for lowest goals-per­game average with two. 
"The ball would always hit tlie crossbar last year," says McCourt. "Luck was definitely not on our side. This year, they're just going ln." 
Through eight games this season the team has scored 25 goals. Forwards Dan Augustyn and Randy Morris have also been Instrumental to the scoring revival. 
Randy and Dan always take it to the end lines," explains McCourt. "When they beat the last guy, I turn my guy's back to the play and make a run." 
It is true that McCourt tends to score goals more than he does assist on goals. But as Sunday's game against Tri-State proved, he should stick to goal scoring. 
see TIGER, page 10 

Notre Dame faces Bowling Green Lambert pleased with progress 
By BRIAN 0' GARA 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame volleyball team seeks to continue it's win­ning ways tonight as the Irish face Bowling Green. 
This match will be a tough early-season test for the young Irish squad, which is off to it's best start in recent years with a 7-4 record. 
"We are coming along very well, right on schedule," says Coach Art Lambert. "I feel very good about the team's progress
.. 
these past few weeks." 

The Irish have won the Rice Tournament and placed second in the Hoosier Classic and the Bradley Tournament. 
Notre Dame-Bowling Green volleyball games have provided for ·some exciting moments In recent years. 
In 1984, the Irish pulled out a slim victory at home in a barn­burner (13-15,16-14, 17-15,16­I4). Last season Bowling Green pulled out a victory at home, defeating the Irish (4-15,5­15, 15-6, 9-I5). 
"We played bad in that match and just couldn't get out of it," said junior setter Kathy Morin, "We really want to get them back." 
The Irish have a great oppor­tunity to do just that. With the addition of two outstanding freshmen, Taryn Collins and Kathy Cunningham, the contin­ued improvement of four sop­homores and four juniors, and the leadership of seniors Mollie Merchant and Karen Sapp, the Irish have come a long way since last fall. 
Without hesitation, Lambert 

claims, "This is the best team since I've been here. No doubt." Lambert's prediction for 
tonight's game? 
"It's anybody's guess really. I'm pleased with our play and Im­provement, but Bowling Green is a very competative team." 
This one has the makings of another exciting match between the two teams as they clash tonight in the ACC Pit at 7:30 p.m. 
After tonight's game, the Irish travel to western Indiana to do battle with Valparaiso University on Thursday at 7 p.m. Although the Irish have handily defeated them in the past few years, Val­paraiso recently defeated highly­ranked DePaul, a good indica­tion that they will be ready to give the Irish a fight Thursday eve­ning. 
Close is not enough as Irish stay winless 
Close, but no cigar. 
This time-worn expression is the story of the young fotball season for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has outgained both of its opponents this season, scored first in both games, and has had a chance to win both games with late scores. But it has failed to do so both times. 
Head Coach Lou Holtz is definitely not pushing the panic button yet, and neither should Irish fans. But Holtz also was not predicting a quick remedy to the problem. 
"We've been in both games right down to the end, so there's no reason for our players to feel down," he said. "We've just got to do better until we win in those situations. 
Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

"''m not down on this team or down on any of our players. 
I've said all along that we will be a good team, I just don't 
know how long it will take." 
The problem of being close, but not coming through in the end is visible in the Irish offense. It has piled up yardage between the 20-yard lines, but once it penetrates the oppo­sition's 20, the movement ceases. 
Coming away with only a field goal is sometimes disap­pointing. but it is better than nothing. Six times this season, the Irish have moved inside the opponent's 20, and come away empty. No points. Zero. 
Against Michigan, two fumbles and an interception thwarted the Irish scoring bids. Last Saturday, the culprits were a missed field goal, a fumble, and an interception. The result of all this is that Notre Dame is 0-2 when it easily could be 2-0. 
That all sounds innocent enough, but it has been a long time since the Irish have been 0-2. This is only the third time in this century that the Irish have lost two straight to open the season, and only the fifth time in history. 
The last time it happened, and don't get all excited about this, was in I978, and the Irish went on to win eight straight and capture a Cotton Bowl win over Houston. 
Before Notre Dame dreams about going on a winning streak. however, they must win one. They have a chance to do that against Purdue this week. 
Purdue has been a bad dream for the Irish the past two meetings. Two years ago, the Boilermakers defeated the Irish at the Hoosier Dome, 23-2 I. Last year, Jim Everett completed 27 of 49 passes for an Irish-opponent record 368 yards to lead a 35-I7 romp over Notre Dame. 
At least we can take heart in the fact that Everett has gone to the greener pastures of professional football. Or can we? 
You see, the Boilermakers, never a team weak at quarter­back, have Jeff George at the controls now. You may recall him as the most highly-sought high school quarterback in the country last year. 
He is the man to stop for Purdue, since saying he carries most of the offensive load would be a terrible understatement. Purdue averages 267.5 yards per game offensively. All but I6 have come through the air. 
The Irish secondary will need an outstanding performance to keep the freshman in check. So far, the defense has con­tained the opponents' primary weapons fairly well, but Purdue quarterbacks have traditionally been a trouble spot for the Irish. 
Another trouble spot appeared in last week's game. The running game, which piled up 192 yards against Michigan, managed a meager 82 yards against Michigan State. 
Compounding the problem with the running game was the inability of the special teams to perform. 
Dan Sorenson finally got some game action, but the line seemed to be setting up a screen pass as a host of green jerseys put heavy pressure on. The Irish caught a big break when one kick took a huge Notre Dame bounce. 
The punting game provided some more thrills later on when Sorenson had to make a leaping one-handed grab to field a snap and get the ball off. 
Unfortunately, the punting team provided more excitement than the kickoff return team, and that is never a good sign. 
Poor communication and shoddy blocking put the Irish in the hole on several occasions. That is doubly bad news when the offense must rely almost exclusively on the pass. 
At last week's press conference, Holtz said that a team usually improves the most between the first and second games of the season. If that's true, I hope the Irish do not "Improve" any more this season. 
They looked impressive in the opener and lost by one. They looked unimpressive in last week's game and lost by five. One week confident. the next week incompetent. 
It does not matter. The results were the same. 
They do not get lovely parting gifts, or even a heartfelt snap of the fingers from Vanna White to show she feels bad about it. too. 
Just an 0-2 record. 
Close, but no cigar. 


