-----~~-----­
Happenings -Inside 


julte Stantbery works as a disc jockey at the WVFI-AM radio station located tn O'Shaughnessy Hall. The station is scheduled to move to a new location on the third floor ofLaFortune this sum­mer, according to Reginald Daniel, the station's manager. Story at right. 

Marcos takes early election le-ad; charges of voting fraud continue 
A.'IIIOCiated Press 
MANILA, Philippines . President Ferdinand Marcos took an early lead over challenger Corazon Aquino yestt!rday in the official canvass by the National Assembly of last week's presidential election. 
In a brief television appearance, Marcos pledged to "honor, without reservations, the people's verdict at the: polls and to extend our hand in conciliation to those who have con· tested the election with us." 
Aquino's followers say Marcos probably will win the official tally because his New Society Movement party has a two-thirds majority in the 190-member assembly. 
Aquino, who ha.~ claimed victory, requested that Marcos step down until the election is resolved, to "rliffuse some of the swelling politi· cal anger in our country." 
"He is presently perceived at home and abroad as having unfairly deployed the full resources of the state to snatch victory at any cost," the S3-year-old challenger said. 
In Washington, the chairman of the U.S. observer team, Senator Ric· hard Lugar, R-Ind., suggested that if the Marcos government is shown to have "fatally flawed" the counting, "my guess is Congress will not ap­propriate money for military or financial aid" for the Philippines. 
Special presidential envoy Philip Habib was due to leave for Manila in late afternoon after consulting at the State Department with experts on the Philippines. 
There have been many charges of widespread fraud and voter in­timidation, and the government says at least 86 people died in el'ection violence. A spokesman for Aquino said a campaign coordinator from her home province was killed early yesterday. 
Four hours into the count, Marcos led by 3,758,013 votes to 3,140,290, or 54.5 percent to 45.5 percent · a margin that has held steady since the counting began earlier in the day. Marcos' vice presidential running mate, Assemblyman Arturo Tolen­tino, was leading opposition can­didat~ Salvador Laurel. 
The majority of tally sheets were found to be defective in some way. Assembly Speaker Nicanor Yniguez said Wednesday that no proclama­tion ofa winner would be made until questions about the ballots were resolved. 
Marcos, 68, called the election I6 months early to demonstrate popular support for his government. His 20-year adminlstration was un­der increasing challenge by com­munist guerrillas and public unrest. 
As the canvassing continued, Aquino joined some 3,000 mourners at a combined political rally and Mass for a slain campaign official. Her aides reported yet anot­her key campaign worker murdered, and his son missing and perhaps dead. 

Tylenol banned in state of Indiana 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS · Indiana State 

•Health Commissioner Weedrow Myers Jr. banned the sale and use of all Tylenol brand pain relief capsules in Indiana last night. 
Myers said all Hoosiers should refrain from using the pain reliever until further notice and that all stores should remove Tylenol capsules from store shelves. 
Myers said he was taking the ac­tion following the discovery yester­

day  of  a  second  boule  of  
contaminated  Tylenol  capsules  in  
New York.  

Earlier in the week, a New York woman died after ingesting Tylenol capsules laced with a poison. 
Myers said the Indiana ban refers only Tylenol capsules, not tablets. 
Myers said there have been no reports of contaminated pain reliever in Indiana. 
"There have been no reports of any problems thus far in Indiana, but we wish to take no risks, given the present circumstances," he added. 

Myers' ban came on the heels of a warning from the federal Food and Drug Administration against the use ofTylenol capsules. 
Dr. Frank Young, the FDA com­missioner, issued the warning after government scientists found cyanide in five capsules in a single bottle of Extra-Strength Tylenol. 
Because the lot number was dif­ferent from a lot in which cyanide was found, "consumers should com­pletely avoid all Tylenol capsules in any strength, in any lot, until further notice," Young said. 
Young stressed that the problem appears to be a "local occurrence in the greater New York area." 
Young said the newly discovered bottle was found in a store in the same general area where the capsules implicated in the death of Diane Elsroth, 23, was reportedly purchased. 
Meanwhile, the Indiana heatlh chief also urged consumers to in­spect all medications to see that safety seals are intact before using them. lfthose seals appear to be tam­pered with, he said, "take it back to the store prior to using it." 
By Friday, Young said, inves­tigators should know whether the cyanide was from the same batch as the poison that tainted the capsule that killed Elsroth. 

WVFI sends proposal to ND administrators 
By JOHN FLORY and MARK PANKOWSKI 
StaffReporters 
The station manager of the student-run WVFI-AM has sent a 75­page proposal to several ad­ministrators and a Board ofTrustees member requesting greater financial support for the station, including funds for its problem-plagued trans­mitting system. 
In addition, the proposal asks that the station's scheduled summer move to the third floor of LaFortune be delayed, according to Reginald Daniel, station manager. 
The proposal was sent three weeks ago to Assistant Vice Presi­dent for Student Services Father Francis Cafarelli, Executive Assistant to the President Father William Beauchamp, Assistant Director of Media and Programming Adele Lanan and trustee member Terrance Kelley, said Daniel. WVFI-AM cur­rent annual budget of $13,000 a year is grossly inadequate Daniel said. "You can't run a radio station on $13,000 a year," he said. 
The campus station, which is funded by student activities fees, al­ready has exceeded its budget for this school year, said Daniel. 
"We're over budget on a lot of things," he said. "I'd hate to estimate it but I guess we're about $2,000 over in everything." 
Yet "going over budget is a yearly thing," he said. "I warned them about this (going over the budget) when I came into office," said Daniel, who began his job as station manager last April. 
If the transmitting system is rebuilt, WVFI-AM could operate properly on an annual budget of 
$20,000, he said. That figure could later be cut as advertising revenue increases with the additional lis­teners gained by broadcasting a dearer signal, he said. 
The second major point in Daniel's proposal, rebuilding WVFI­AM's transmitting system, would cost approximately $60,000­$75,000, "If it's done right," said Daniel. 

This figure would cover the costs of replacing and repairing WVFI­AM's transmitters and couplers, which allow the station's signal to be picked up by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's dorms, as well as shipping and labor charges, he said. 
The last major point In Daniel's proposal is a request that WVFI-AM remain in its current location in O'Shaughnessy Hall until its third floor studios are constructed in LaFortune and deemed safe, he said. 
Although WVFI-AM's equipment must be transported and reinstalled in its new location, no provisions have been made for the station's move, according to Danlel. Instead, all that's been secured for the station is "basically, four walls and a door" on the renovated student center's third floor. 
An additional problem created by the move centers around WVFI­AM's relationship with its FM coun· terpart, WSND-FM. Currently, certain staff members work for both WVFI-AM and WSND-FM and some: equipment is shared by the two sta­tions, Daniel said. 
The question ofwhich station will retain the equipment and staff mem­bers when WVFI-AM and WSND-FM are split has not been settled, Daniel said. 
Further complicating the move is WSND-FM's use of some of its coun­terpart's programming during Noc­turne Nlghtflight, the FM station's midnight show featuring progressive pop, he said. 
Purchasing a new music library and broadcasting equipment for one of the stations would cost up to $70,000, Daniel said. 
U.S. gives mixed response on Japanese auto quota 
AMoclated Press 
WASHINGTON · The Reagan administration responded with mixed signals yesterday to Japan's one-year extension of its voluntary auto-export quotas, while the chairman of a House trade subcommittee said the decision could lead to higher prices for both domestic cars and imports. 
':Japan will make up the dif· ference by bringing in higher priced cars," said Representative · Sam Gibbons, D-Fla. "U.S. manufacturers will jack up their prices. And the U.S. consumer· will get shafted." 
President Reagan's special trade representative, Clayton Yeutter, denounced Japan's deci­sion to extend the self-imposed quotas through March 31, 1987, saying "export restraints are not the answer" toward easing this nation's $47.6 billon trade deficit with Japan. 
"The United States did not ask Japan (to take the action). This was their decision alone," Yeut­ter added. "The only real answer is for Japan to open Its markets further to U.S. products." 

But President Reagan's spokes­man, Larry Speakes, refused to make any ' comment on the Japanese move, claiming it was strictly an internal japanese deci­sion. 
As the administration sought publicly to put distance between itself and the Japanese decision, officials privately suggested the move could help ease protec­tionist pressures aimed at Japan on Capitol Hill, Ifonly slightly. 
"(It) means that they are get­ting the message from many ofus in the United States that they can't continue the Invasion of Japanese products Into this country and, in turn, block our American-produced goods out of their markets," said Senator Donald Riegle, D-Mich. Dan 
see QUOTAS, page 4 
~---­

The Observer Friday, February 14, i986 -page 2 



In Brief 
An Indiana House committee late yesterday afternoon approved a bill to repeal Indiana's constitutional ban on lotteries. The measure was approved by the House Commerce Com­mittee by a vote of 7-4. Committee chairman Dan Pool opposed the measure, but had said he decided to give it a hearing because it was starting to bog down the legislative process. -AP 
The world's longest-lived artificial heart recipient, William Schroeder, will observe his 54th birthday privately today with his wife. Schroeder is recovering from a Nov. 10 stroke, his third since hisJarvik-7 mechanical pump was implanted at Humana Hospital Audobon. Schroeder, a federal retiree who suf­fered chronic failure of the heart muscle, was the world's second recipient of a permanent artificial heart. Dr. William DeVries replaced his weakened heart in a 65-hour operation on Nov. 25, 1984. -AP 
Apregnant zoo worker's husband filed suit Wed­nesday, claiming unsafe conditions contributed to the deaths of his wife and unborn child who were killed by a jaguar. Dennis Booth, 31 ~ charged a variety ofoffenses in the Kent County Circuit Court suit, including wrongful death, negligence and breach of implied war~ ranty. Gayle Booth, 33, who was seven months pregnant, was killed in December by a male jaguar that squeezed through an opening between a garage-type overhead door and the top ofa ramp leading to animal holding cages. -AP 
Of Interest , 
Dating and Relationships will be the subject or the Icthus Christian Fellowship meeting tonight in the library lounge at 6:30. Celebrate Valentine's Day in a special way this year. All are welcome. · The Obseroer 
More than 70 works by Mauricio Lasansky, interna­tionally distinguished printmaker, will go on display at the Snite Museum ofArt Sunday. Representing works from 1944 to 1982, the exhibit will be open to the public until March 30. -The Obseroer 
Spring break trips to Florida will be discussed at an information booth in the library concourse on Sunday from 
5:45 to 8:30p.m.-The Obseroer 
S • tM ' . .
atn ary S )UntOrS are reminded to vote today for the senior class run-off election. Elections will be held in Haggar College Center from 7 a.m. until 6 tonight. The candidates are Patty Curran, president, Maureen Erny, vice president, Chris Rashid, treasurer and Mary Roe secretary. They are opposed by Katie Sul­livan, Lori Lohman, Jenny Feeney and Clare Hausman. ·The Obseroer 

Weather 
Swooning lovers may warm hearts inside today, but outside, cold tem­peratures will continue. There is a 60 percent chance ofsn?_w todaywith highs in the low 30s. Chance of snow tomorrow with temperatures ranging froni 10 to 30. -AP 


Design Editor................. Mark McLaughlin ,Design Assistant...................... Larry Burke Typesetters ...................................... Pat Clark Chuck Papandrea News Editor ................... Cindy Rauckhorst Copy Editor ........................ Margie Kersten Sports Copy Bditor.................. Larry Burke Viewpoint Copy Editor.......... Sue Dunbar Viewpoint Layout................... Rob Bartolo 
Features Copy Editor...............Sam Moore Features Layout ............ Mark Mclaughlin NDDayEditor........................... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor................. Mary jean Sully AdDestgn ..................................... jesse Pesta Fred Nelson Allison Fabrenkopf Photographer .......................... Paul Kramer 
The Observer ( l 'SPS ~99 2-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students ofthe liniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year ( 120 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~6~~6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
resrrv~d 


The Grinch returns today to steal all the hearts away 
So it's Valentine's Day. As Garfield might say, "big, fat, hairy deal." 
I like to think ofmyself as a romantic kind ofguy, but I just do not like this holiday or what it has come to represent. 
I mean, there's nothing wrong with expressing affec­tion for someone. I've even been known to confess my admiration on one or two occasions. But on Valentine's Day, it seems like it's do or die. Either you send flowers or candy or a card or some other "it's the thought the counts" kind ofgreeting, or you're in trouble. Someone out there expects you to come through today. 
The pressure is on. 
I don't know about you, but I really do not like pressure. At least not that kind. There are a whole lot of wonderful people out there whom I enjoy doing nice things for. I've even sent flowers and given boxes of candy. But somehow "the thought that counts" doesn't count nearly as much on Valentine's Day. When everybody else is thinking the same way, how can you show that your thought is any more important or rooted any deeper? 
Sure, Valentine's Day provides an excuse to hint about the secret admiration you've harbored for someone since the minute you fir.st laid eyes on him or her. But if you really like someone that much, why do you need an excuse? 
And what about all of the people who don't get any Valentines? Does that mean that they are not loved? I doubt it1 But people have come to expect so much of this florist-and-greeting­card-company-contrived holiday, they're bound to be disappointed. 
Oh, you may not admit it, but it's pretty tough when you look in that mailbox on February 14 and don't find anything. I wish there were some way the post office could make a list ofall the people not getting Valentines so some philanthropic organization could send them a greeting. After all, who is poorer than someone who feels he is not loved? 
I got a call last week from a friend whose boyfriend had just broken off a two-year-old relationship with her. "How could he do that two weeks before Valentine's Day?" she wondered. Why does it have to be any worse now? I suppose it would have no effect on her if he waited until next week to break up with her. Yeah, right. 
I have some other friends who live in a hall on 
campus which is having a formal tonight. How roman­
tic, right? Oh, sure, it's nice for those people who are 


Phil Wolf 

Copy Chief 

going tQ the dance, but for those who don't go or who do not have a good time, it's twice as devastating. Of course, there's nothing to stop anyone from going to the dance, but it just adds more pressure having the event on our national holiday of mushiness. 
And just getting a Valentine doesn't solve all of the problems, either. What do you do when you receive a Valentine from someone you hardly know? Do you feel guilty because you didn't send him or her something? It's flattering, ofcourse, but also pretty frustrating. You 
know you're going to feel bad the next time you see that person and have to say thank you for the greeting which you did not recipr­ocate. 
I already have received four Valentines (I know it's hard to believe), and, much as I appreciated them, I don't feel any more loved now than I did, say, on Lin­coln's birthday. I know who my friends are, and I usually let them know how I feel about them. If I don't get a Valentine from one of my friends, I'm not going to be any less her friend. 
So, I suppose it sounds 
like I'm saying Valentine's Day is entirely worthless. And you're saying, "Who is this guy? The Grinch who tried to steal Valentine's Day?" 
Not ,quite. 

If you're in love, Valentine's Day can be a great day. You can just wallow in all of the mush that your loved one lavishes on you. And you can have fun giving all the mush right back. To you, I say, "Congratulations; happy Valentine's Day, and many happy returns." 
For everybody else (and I suspect it is the majority of people out there), for those people who did not get a Valentine in the mailbox today, I have one wish. Ac­tually, it is a wish taken from a homemade Valentine I got yesterday: "May your Valentine wish come true, whatever or whomever you wish for." 
And if'you're one of the people who didn't get a Valentine from me today, try not to worry about it. I'm thinking about you, and it's the thought that counts, anyway, right? 

ALL
ThaiNtoyou ... it works... for 
OFUS 
• 



The Around the Corner Club presents 


STUDENT TALENT 
---~ -------­The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 3 


Senior wins accounting internship 
By MISSY KOLOSZAR 
News Staff 
Senior accounting major Bill lllghducheck recently received an accounting internship from the Financial Accounting Standards Hoard, a private sector organization which establishes standards of finan­cial accounting and reporting. 
llighducheck, one of six students across the nation to receive this one­year internship, was notified of the position last Thursday. 
Every year the FASB sends out in­vitations to approximately 30 of the top accounting schools. Each school can then nominate one student for this post-graduate internship program. Of these nominated stu­dents, approximately 1'5 are selected for Interviews at the FASB's Stam­ford, Conn. headquarters. 
Hlghducheck said he first learned about the internship through a newsletter published by Beta Alpha Psi, an accounting honor society. The newsletter described the receipt ofthe internship by Anthony Thomas, a 1983 accounting major at Notre Dame and also valedictorian of that year. 

According to Highducheck, the person who first encouraged him to apply to the FASB was John Beverly, 

/.. 
' . 
.A ___..~ J\... 
Bill Highducheck 
associate professor of accounting at Notre Dame. 
Professor Leonard Savoie, chair­man of the accounting department, was responsible for the selection of the Notre Dame FASB nominee. He describes the FASB internship as 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­
The Nation's Number One 
Child Health Problem. 


~March of Dimes
'-'t' --BIRTH DEFEC1S FOUNDATION___ 

·--.. 
FULLER HORIZONS 
\'aiD PRCX:ESSn¥:3/SErnRrARIAL SERVICES Pick-up/Delivery arrl DiSOOlmts Available SPECIALIZING IN: 
Dissertations -Theses -Reports Stu:lent Profiles -Resunes -Letters "ProfessiC11al papers at affordable rates" 2 1 9 -2 9 1 -5 5 5 6 
-


Imaginecreating 
yourownCrab Legs

and Seafood Feast. 

Start with a full 1!2 lb~ of our flavorful Alaskan Snow Crab Legs. Then add one of eleven delicious seafood selections. Like sizzling shrimp scampi. Or savory sea scallops. Or tender fried shrimp. Come in soon and create your own Crab Legs & Seafood feast. But hurry, this offer is for a limited time only. 

Red Lobster: 
201 West McKinley 
Mlshawka 
256·1565 C> 19K6 Rrd l.ob•lrr Inns of Amtnra 
being highly competitive and very 
prestigious. 
Selection is based on a student's 
academic standing, verbal and writ­
ten communication skills and 
amount of interest in the job. Savoie 
commended Highd!JCheck in all of 
these areas, adding that he thought 
he would have a good chance of 
receiving the internship. 
Highducheck pursued the FASB 
internship because he said he 
believed it would provide him with 
the necessary exposure to the issues 
of the day in the accounting world. 
Even though his internship with 
the FASB will postpone his entry 
into an accounting firm, Highduc­
heck considers it a goocj preparation 
and background for public account­
ing. 
According· to Savoie, Highduc­heck's internship is reflective of the strength of Notre Dame's account­ing department, which constitutes the largest major in the school and graduates an average of250 students each year. 


Purrrfect 
This polycbromed wood caroing ofa cat is a new acquisition at theSniteMuseum ofArt. This is an Americanpiece ofart which u·as made in 1875. 

U.S. conference held today at CCE 
Special to The Observer 
Several prominent academics, churchmen, politicians, lawyers, and staff members of the U.S. Cat­holic Conference will convene at Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education today and tomorrow for a discussion titled, "A Conference on Religion and Politics in the American Milieu." 
Among the nearly 50 people at­tending the conference will be Mic­hael Barnes, prosecuting attorney for the 60th Judicial Circuit, South Bend; Congresswoman Lindy Boggs (D.La.); Monsilznor John Egan ofthe 


MARCH 
lia1-8 lla 15·22 lt1 8-15 lla 22-29 
CONOO OR HOTEL LODGING PARTIES I GOODIE lAGS I MOREl 
Of contct • 1oc11 Sunc'----Of VOAJI
locll travel~ TOOAYI 

Chicago Archdiocesan Office of Human Relations and Monsignor George Higgins of Catholic Univer­sity in Washingon, D.C. 
Also Father George Hunt, editor of. America; Father William McManus, retired bishop of Fort Wayne/South Bend; Father James Malone ofYoungstown, president of the National Conference ofCatholic Bishops; David O'Brien, professor of history at Holy Cross College; Roger Parent, mayor of South Bend; and Peter Steinfels, editor of Common­wealth. 
Six papers on the relationships between religion and politics will be read and discussed during the con­ference, which was scheduled to begin today at 9 a.m. 
At l :45 p.m. today, Father Gerald Fogarty, professor of religious studies at the University of Virginia, will present a paper titled "The In­fluence of the American Experience on the Church." At 3:30p.m., Father Richard McB~ien, chairman of Notre Dame's theology department, will present a paper titled "The Future 
Role  of the  Church  in  American  
Society."  
Tomorrow  at  9  a.m.  Christine  

Gudorf, associate professor of theol­ogy at Xavier Univeristy will present a paper titled "The American Cat­holic Citizen." At 10:45 a.m. John Gilligan, director of Notre Dame's Institute for International Peace Studies, will present a paper titled "The American Catholic Politician." 
Conference events will take place in the auditorium of the Center of Continuing Education, and all are open to the public. Each presenta­tion will be followed by a question and answer period. The Conference on Religion and Politics in the American Milieu is co-sponsored by Notre Dame's Review of Politics and its Office of Policy Studies. 

Open 7·9 Mon-Frl 8·8 Saturday 
SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare l1 Midway Airport One WaySZOOOaound TripSJOOI 
Available February 15th throqh Mardi Jist. Tickets p111'dwed usable throqlle1at 1916 
INSIDE 
(800) J32..7J2J LOCAL (2U) 674-699J
INDIANA Or auyear uuel qeat 


The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 4 


Shortage of priests not Connecticut trend 
Associated Press Some in the church met Cusack's 
findings with skepticism; others 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. -Bucking a with shock. general trend toward a shortage of "I have a hard time being that op­Roman Catholic priests, the diocese timistic," said the Father Adrian ofBridgeport foresees an increase in Fuerst, a seminary research as­its clergy ranks. sociate at the Center for Applied 
An analysis predicting a 14 per­Research on the Apostolate in Was· cent rise by the year 2000 runs hington, D.C. sharply counter to projections both Fuerst and others expressed nationally and internationally of doubt that the Bridgeport diocese decline in the number ofpriests. could ordain five priests per year, 
Experts on the subject voiced but Cusack said the completion'rate surprise, and even a bit of skep­at the diocese's 10 advanced-level ticism, at the differing, brighter out­schools was approximately 97 per­look in Bridgeport. cent over the past eight years. 
There, for various reasons, Nationally, Fuerst said, ap­including special attention to proximately 35 percent ofadvanced priestly development, the vocation students leave before becoming or­has become "more attractive," says dained. Monsignor Andrew Cusack, vicar of A study recently conducted by the diocesan clergy office, who the Father Andrew Greeley, a issued the new study. Chicago researcher, found that by 
In contrast to the growth foreseen the year 2000 the number ofRoman there, numerous church authorities Catholics in the United States would say figures generally indicate that by grow from approximately 50 million the century's end, the number ofU.S. currently to nearly 80 million and at priests will be cut in half. the same the church's priesthood is 
Seminaries just aren't training and projected to shrink from 50,000 to turning out enough new priests to 25,000. replace those retiring or dying, the Cusack, a psychologist, attributes statistics indicate. That holds true the apparent success of his diocese for other Western countries, as well. to attract people to the priesthood 
Not so in Bridgeport, however, ac­to a variety of factors, including its cording to Cusack's study. small size that "creates a greater 
"The picture is highly optimistic," resource and ease of priestly frater­Cusack said in an interview. nity and support" and work done by Bridgeport's diocese embraces rectories to improve the quality of about 334,000 Catholics in 91 life for priests. parishes. Currently, it claims 250 More important, he said, is that active priests with an additional 14 through the diocese's dedication to in retired ministry. the intellectual, spiritual and physi­
According to Cusack's projection, cal development of its priests, it has 
five new priests will be ordained in "fostered feelings of competency, the diocese each year from now to which lead to personal happiness." 2000, bringing the total by the turn Those feelings, he said, are passed to ofthe century to 288 after subtract­a younger generation through role ~ ing the 59 he expects to retire. models. 
chairman of the Senate international 

Quotas 
trade subcommittee, said the deci­sion signaled "a recognition on the
continued from page 1 
part of the Japanese that trade is aQuayle, R-Ind., author of a letter give-and-take proposition."
signed by 11 colleagues urging Japan to extend the quotas, said he Gibbons, chairman of the trade welcomed the move and felt that the subcommittee of the House Ways quotas should be extended "until and Means Committee, said the such time that there is an increase in move probably made sense from a 
U.S. exports to Japan" in certain political point of view. "I think the 
areas. Japanese did the smart thing from Senator john Danforth, R-Mo., their vantage point," he said. 
28th ANNUAL 

Night crawlers 
A soldier of the Oregon Army National Guard proximately 7,000 U.S. National Guard troops leads a column ofHonduran and other American from eight states will participate in military ex­soldiers during war maneuvers this week. Ap-ercises over the next six months in Honduras. 

Challenger investigations continue 
A88oclated Pre88 the solid-fuel rocket boosters. Com­Commissioners will tour the 52­
mission testimony so far has cen­story vehicle assembly building, 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The tered on possible failure ofsynthetic where booster segments are presidential commission investigat­rubber seals at a lower segment of "stacked" and then mated to the or­ing the Challenger explosion the space shuttle's right rocket biter and mustard-colored external opened two days of closed-door booster. fuel tank aboard a mobile launcher hearings at the scene of the disaster According to Rogers, one ob­platform, NASA spokesman Hugh yesterday, focusing on unusual sub­jective of the visit here was to ex­Harris said. freezing temperatures that prevailed plore the effect ofthe temperatures ­
They will then examine how 
on the launch pad, 27 degrees several hours prior to the booster segments are unloaded andTen of the 12 members of the in­Challenger launch and 38 degrees at stored. Commission members,vestigative panel flew into the Ken­liftoff-on the so-called 0 ring seals. 
staying overnight at nearby Patricknedy Space Center and went into Lawrence Mulloy, project Air Force Base, will have no contactsession immediately with launch manager for the boosters, testified with the press or public, NASA offi­processing officiais in what commis­before the commission in Was­cials said, but Rogers is to make asion Chairman William Rogers said hington on Tuesday that cold might briefstatement prior to departure.
earlier would be a discussion of"the make the seais stiffen and, at lest temperature effects, all the weather theoretically, fail to seat properly in In Washington, William Graham, and environmental effects" on the the gap they are supposed to seal. the acting NASA administrator, an­Jan. 28launch. Mulloy said engineers discussed nounced that the agency's teacher­
Another major item for the the possibility of a weather problem in-space program would go forward group's first visit outside Was­the night before the Challenger and that Barbara Morgan, an elemen­hington was a personal inspection of launch, but decided, based on test tary school teacher in McCall, Idaho, 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, the name of the chairman of modern languages at Saint Mary's was misspelled. The name should have been Sister Mary Gude. 
data, to go ahead. would be offered the opportunity to 
On the investigators' schedule fly on the shuttle after missions today was a visit to a facility where resume. wreckage is being pieced together Morgan was backup to McAuliffe , in a detailed search for clues to the and trained with her for several explosion which destroyed the $1.2 months. billion spaceship and killed its seven While the commission looked for crew members, including New evidence, officials reported little Hampshire schoolteacher Christa progress in an underwater search for McAuliffe. Challenger's boosters. 
~ 
o•
ool
~ 
>I




-c~laY-'S 
~~ 
~ 

~~ pub 

"foor,-for&oodfoocl.Uun" 
~ 
~ 
loo 

STUDYBREAKEXCUSE 3382:
·= 

r<
IZ 
~ 
~

"To give not quite serious thought to the consequences ofthe
II!= 
I~ 

atmospheric disturbf!-nce caused by Halley's Comet as it relates to
IU 
~ 

a possible adjustment in sun factors ofsun tan lotions while on
I~ 
~ 
I< 
....I
spring break." 
11:1.} 
"=I
>I
SUN 
MON 
THUR 

FRI
TUE 
WED 
SAT 
Zl
~ 
Chili&
Big-Screen 
Lotsa
I< 
'='I
BBQ 

Contemporary Contemporary 
Make Your 
001
Chips
Movies 
Pasta 
Own
Picnic 

listening Listening 
>I
~ 
Happy
Yz lb. 
Mexican 

entertainment entertainment
Happy
Happy
IU 
Hour
Burgers 
Hour 
~·
Hour 
Happy
Big-Screen 
n'
Sports 12-9 
5-10
5-10 
Hour
Sports
~ 

9:30-1:00 
9:30-1:00
5-10
5-10
e: 
~I
wine
3.50 
$1.50
$1.00 
Glenn
margaritas 

Glenn 
Zl 
tasting
draft 
01
import
off
~ 
Nowak
upsidedown 

Nowak 
rnl
$1.00
pitchers 
beers 
shots
~ 
it­
~' 
!1. 

• US33/31 JUSTNORTHOFTOLLWAY I~ 



~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t____________________Fri-da~y,-Fe-bru-~~~4~,1-98-6~-p~~--eS 
WVFI facing great challenges in the near future 
"WVFJ Is like purgatory because tbe time you spend tbere seems like an eternity." 
Hi folks. This letter to the students was originally supposed to go in before the Oc­tober Break but as I was too lazy to do it, it didn't get done until now. Since then I have been deluged with questions about the radio station -how are things going, what's the programming and why can't people hear us. Well, I'm going to bring you briefly up to date. 
Reginald Daniel guest column 
We have been on the air since Sept. I, 1985 with the exception ofall academic breaks. We are running a staff of about 250 students and volunteers counting all st2ffs, including WSND-FM and Nocturne Nlghtflight. We had over 200 people try out for the 25 slots we had open at the beginning of the year, so you can see it Is a very competitive process to get Into the station. We are still looking for techni­cal engineers, however, and if anyone Is in­terested please give Mike Thesing a call here at the station. Of of the 200 people at the sta­tion, 64 of them are DJs, with the rest dis· trlbuted between the eight other staffs. All of the DJs have been trained in general on-air practices and most are in the process oflearn­ing FCC regulations. 
Our programming is about 50 percent New Music, with the remaining 50 percent dis­tributed between pop, rock, funk, and punk music. We also feature three weekly talk shows and sporting events like Notre Dame basketball and Notre Dame hockey. We feature special live concert series and the weekly top 20 show Rock Over London. Our programming is directed straight at the stu­dents for your enjoyment. 
Of course, fur any of our programming to work, It has to be heard, and this brings me to the issue of our transmitters. I am often asked 
about what are we doing to improve the quality ofour signal, so I am going to try to put out a simple answer to a highly complicated problem. When I accepted the position ofsta­tion manager here at WVFI, my main goal was to get us heard by everyone on campus. Well, needless to say I did not completely succeed. However, this does not mean I was a complete failure at the task. In order to fix something you have to know what is wrong, so I talked the Administration (with a little help from the Student Senate and the Hall Presidents' Coun­
cil) into getting us a test and survey done on the entire carrier current system on which we operate and included alf the dorms on the Saint Mary's campus. It was done in Septem· ber and we got the results back in December. 
The results of the transmitter report was not one of the happiest things we have ever gotten -in fact, as my chief assistant put it, it was downright depressing. What it said was this: 44 percent ( 13) of the dorms had good­to-fair reception, 28 percent (8) of the dorms had bad reception, and 28 percent (8) of the dorms had no reception at all. The report said that 52 percent ofthe problem was due to bad or disrepaired couplers and relating com­ponents (the device that connects the trans­mitters to the dorms electrical systems) and 48 percent was due to otherproblems ranging from bad tranmitters to a lack of improperly connected components to a mixture ofall the above. 
Now we knew the system was in bad shape, but let's face it, this is ridiculous. Now add to this the proposed move into LaFortune this summer of WVFI, into srudios we have yet to see any plans on or any information on who is building the studios and who is going to do the actual moving of equipment (you need professional, well-trained personnel to move and place all the equipment in the studios and make the connections to the lines), and you can see that what we have here is a very big mess. These are the highlights. We cannot tell you everything because 'f!l~ Observc;r cannot 

print a 20-page issue devoted only to WVFI, 
and there are a whole lot of things you don't 
want to know about. 
However, as with all messes, there are solu­
tions, and in another final 75-page proposal to 
the University and the Board of Trustees, we 
put forth what we saw as the best ones. Here is 
what the Proposal said In essence: 
• 
No more short-term solutions to the problems. This has hurt not just AM but also FM tremendously in the past. 

• 
In a two-part effort, let us fix the system into an accept2ble listenable station. The first part of getting the srudio equipment in the 1980s and 100 percent functional is nearly complete. It is the second phase that will be the most expensive and most time consuming -that being the repair and upgrade of the car­rier current system. This means replacing and repairing couplers and transmitters where needed and replacing and repairing all trans­mission lines on campus. This is going to be a slow process perhaps taking as long as five years because ofthe expense involved and the nature ofthe work to be done. 

• 
Finally, we asked that the planned move and separation of the two Stations be delayed until the work on the system is substantially complete (8S percent) and only after the srudios have been completed in LaFortune, and have been inspected by the staff to insure they meet all the specifications needed for a radio station. You cannot just throw up four walls and a floor and put a radio sution there. Certain materials are needed, certain electri­cal requirements are needed and certain space requirements are needed for present arid future growth. We have enlarged the record library twice in my four years at the st2tion and we are still facing some serious space problems. 


As you can see, what we have here is a dis­tinct headache (it has given some ofus ulcers and driven others of us to commit radio suicide by playing Michael Jackson's Thriller album six times In a row), but it is one that can 
be done away with in time. The administra­tion, in general, has been very helpful to a cer­tain degree, though they lack any type of commiument to student radio, but at least they are trying to work with us. You also must remember that there is only so much money to go around, as well as only so much time to spend on such a noble cause as ours. We are not exactly number one on their priority list and we do not expect that, although we would like to know where exactly we are on that list. The one thing I would like to stress is that this is not a problem that is going to be solved overnight unless someone is willling to become the personal benefactor ofthe station and that, needless to say, is unlikely (sort of like the school closing for a snow day when the windchill is 6S below zero). It is going to take time to solve the problems we have, though admittedly we do not have a whole lot of it. 
Well, that's the scoop, folks. Remember you heard it (or read it as the case may be) here first. It has been interesting playing station manager (or as THE Secretary likes to say, "Petty Tyrant") for a year, but as they say, all good things must come to an end and so ends my tour of duty on March 1. If anyone would like the job, please feel free to call me as I will give it to you (pending approval of the ex­ecutive board) gladly. It does not pay a whole lot, but you do get a secretary who will type papers if you have enough money, you get to meet a lot of good-looking women, and you get your very own office. It does absolutely nothing for your resume however; take It from someone who knows. 
To the graduating seniors, I say goodbye, to the juniors, hang in there, and to the under­classmen, oh well, maybe it won't snow anymore. I myself am going to embezzle all the station's funds (all 12.50 of it) and take a trip on Transpo out to University Park Mall and buy a candy bar. That is all. 
Reginald V. Daniells station manager and program director ofWVFI. 

Visit to Grotto gives courage to face problems 
What Is the most valuable commodity in America today? Plenty of people will say it's real estate. American land is pretty valuable stuff these days. Even land thought not to be of any worth can be made into something you couldn't afford. A decade ago or so, part ofEast Rutherford, N.j., was nothing but a l>wampland. Today the Meadowlands Is a hot real est2te ticket. But there's one place In all the world I wouldn't trade. 
The Grotto. 
Pete Pranica thank God for special people 
As with any other srudent, there are times when It seems that every waking moment brings another crisis. The Administration doesn't care about the students, the students are immature, ethanol smells and there was too much cheese In the pizza, so on and so yawn. 
In a world which is changing faster than you can say "digital," it's nice to know that there's one place which never changes. 
The Grotto. 
Seems like I'm making too much of this, right? No. I think sometimes we're all a little afraid to admit that life can be a bed of nails Instead of roses. _Failed romances, lousy grades, miserable weather -they're all legitimate reasons for self-doubt and depres­sion. There are times when it seems the sun doesn't shine for about a week. We're all human and we're allowed the privilege of a funk every now and then. 
The question is not how deep the funk is, it's how you come back from it. Character is smiling just after you've been kicked in the teeth. The time between the kicking and the smiling is the key. 
George Steinbrenner has a saying In his office. It says: "I am wounded, but not dead. I will lie here and bleed awhile, but I will rise to fight again." That pretty much says it. 
At Notre Dame, much ofthe school is high­strung, which leads to failure and snapping. It's unfortunate, but it's also a part of life. The test, though, is how quickly one rerurns from failure. But in the haste to get back smiling again, don't forget to take Steinbrenner's advice and let yourself bleed awhile. 
At long last, I'm back to the original point. In Its own way, the Grotto has seen more bloodshed than any battlefield. Even in the darkest night, in the small hours of the mor­ning, the Grotto is a receptive place, full of a compassion beynd even a human touch. 
Churches are beautiful works of the desig­ner's art, but even the most eloquent architec­tural statement is no match for the simple outdoor quiet of the Grotto. While churches are ornate, the Grotto is a simple space for the simple yet incredibly complex process of human introspection. There is no place quite like it in all the world. 

A piece of advice, then: when the world Is seemingly crushing you into the ground, set aside a few minutes and go to the Grotto in the morning or evening. You don't have to pray; just sit if you like. Just let it be. Instead of trying to be In control, let go. 
instead of trying to wash problems away in a flood ofale, let the quiet peacefulness which llebes mere words wash over you. Visittng the Grotto will not make problems disappear, but I'm willing to bet that the peace and quiet will give you the peace of mind to get at those problems. 
Generations of Notre Dame students have paused In that quiet cove to bleed awhile, only to rise and fight again. That is why we are Notre Dame. 
Pete Pranlca Is a senior American studies majorand a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

"ie~P.~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------F_r•_·d~ay~,_Fe_b_r_uruy~-1~4,~1~9_86~-p~a~g--e6 

Teacher's assault highlights high school circus 
Over the recent break, Students had the chance to learn oflocal news they might have missed had they been at Notre Dame. A rather startling event occurred at my former high school while I was home. A teacher was as­saulted by ~ student. It was an event that I never would have anticipated, but it serves to highlight the circus known as the public high school. 
Kevin Mundy 
heads in the sand 
Reaction to this incident demonstrates the complex problems facing our public schools. 
We should pay heed to professional opinions 

r DearEditor: r I was very pleased to see the editorial by r Patrick W. Utz, director of the University's 
Counseling L.enter, in the Feb. 10 issue of the Observer. My pleasure at seeing this column stems in part from the fact that Utz' observa­tions about co-ed and single-sex living are, in large measure, corroborated by my own un­dergraduate experience at a school with both co-ed and single-sex dormitories. (Personally, though, I have never heard anyone complain oflack ofprivacy jn co-ed dorms. ) 
Ofgreater interest to me was the fact that at long last someone has bothered to consult on this matter with a person who has a basis for a reasonable opmton. It is really quite remarkable how easily we are swayed by statements of personal prejudice or sheer fancy in matters (like this one) that call for careful consideration based on broad ex­perience, if not indeed for rigorous empirical study. 
I find it a matter of no small concern that this is the first letter, column or even quota­tion I have seen on this matter from a person who explicitly mentions his or her qualifica~ tions for giving an opinion. (Having lived in or presided over a single-sex dormitory is not in itself basis for a sober assessment ofco-ed dor­mitories, nor is the imagination ofwhat such a situation might be like.) In matters such as this (and other matters such as policies regrding alcohol use, amount of intervention in stu­dents' lives by University authorities, etc.) we should pay heed to rigorous empirical studies, people with professional experience with the whole gambit of relevant alternatives and people with first-hand personal experience in the matters under discussion. Failure to do this will surely either plunge us headlong into decisions rashly and ill-advisedly entered into or mire us in a mindless entrenchment of the 
status quo. Steven Horst Notre Dame graduate student 
Thanks given to those who supported RASTA 
DearEditor: 
As everyone knows there exists a RASTA group at Notre Dame whose main goal is to aid the starving people in Africa in any way they can. As a new member of the group, I have found a very special bunch ofpeople who are very, very keen on achieving as much as they 
can. 
The RASTA Group has many plans and ac­tivities lined up for the semester to help raise money for those a lot less fortunate then we are. The highlight of the semester will be a Reggae/Rock concert towards the end of the semester, which with the intense prepara-Certainly actions must be taken to protect both teachers and students and they will be at this school. However these efforts, in all likelihood, will deter education, which is the purpose ofour schools. This is a problem with no easy answers. 

What are these detrimental steps? In two words, more watchdogs. Where one teacher patrolled a hall, two will do so. More will be on cafeteria and bathroom duty, which con­sists of simply standing in the cafeteria and bathroom during the lunch periods to keep the students under control. 
The problem is obvious. With more time spent on potty patrol, less will be spent on teaching. At a time when many talk ofextend­ing the school day or school year, this is less than terrific news. The additional burden on teachers is bel\ttling, in addition to time­wasting. 
This creates even further problems. Many sacrifices are already demanded of our teac­hers; do we need to add to the list? Low salaries and lack of advancement are two fac­tors which limit interest in teaching as a profession, but little can be done to correct either situation. Salaries produced by taxes will always be low, and the teac­her/administrator ratio is very poor for poten­tial administrators in the teaching ranks. All of this adds up to limited interest in teaching for college students choosing careers, par­ticularly those at selective schools. These demeaning duties only make teaching more 

P.O. BoxQ 
tions already under way promises to be a very enjoyable and rewarding occasion. 
The first RASTA-sponsored activity of the spring semester was held last Friday night, Feb. 7. The evening centered around Reggae music and a most enjoyable gathering, held at Lee's Ribs at the Five Points. I would like to thank all those who came, and I hope that fun was had by all. For those interested in coming again to Lee's for another great night ofenter­tainment, we will be there again very soon, and remember while you are having a good time, your money is.~elping somebody a lot worse off. 
On behalfofRASTA1would like to thank all 
those who contributed, and I would en­
courage everyone to keep up the great sup­
port for such a noble cause. Hope to see you 
soon. 

Sean Evers Notre Dame student 
Violence in an elevator did not show any 'love' 
Dear Editor: 

While I have all too often watched occa­
sions of what I would call sexual violence on 
the Notre Dame campus, today was the first 
time I literally found myself jammed next to 
such a "couple" within the woefully confining 
space of a crowded library elevator. The 
violence I witnessed included the "lover" 
shouting how much his "beloved" enjoyed 
beingstruck as the youngwoman claimed that 
all of this was his expression of endearment. 
Through it all (for six long floors) her body 
was rapidly and repeatedly punched and her 
blond head bashed into the wall causing the 
elevator itself to actually shudder and shake 
all the way down to the ground floor! 
. I watched the many anxious faces ofthe ot­
her riders who were involuntarily caught up 
in this act of terror, but only one comment 
was made regarding what was going on and it 
was said as if in jest. 

What I saw along with seven other people 
was not human play, not human love. Young 
people must rellect in order to better assess 
how and why it is that two good people can be 
drawn into a bad relationship. In seeking in­
timacy, we must first understand what it is and 
how it manifests itself. There is help on 
campus. Check it out! 

Carmelita M. Madison Notre Dame graduate student 
'Sour grapes' expressed in a letter of rebuttal 
Dear Editor: 

Concerning Mansour Eid's letter, it did not say or explain anything about the real situa­tion in the Philippines. It was nothing more than an inane oversimplification which neit· her disproved Villalon's arguments nor ad­vanced his own (whatever it was). It just showed how little he knows about the Philippines and his lack of concern about the Filipinos who live there. Furthermore, his last statement was nothing more than just sour grapes. And if ever there were anyone who should "refrain from commenting on issues of the sort," it is people who do not even know what they are writing about. 
Regina Bundoc Regina Hall 
Arguments not present to support any claims 
Dear Editor: 
Mansour Eid's letter,published Feb. 11, made three claims: 
1 
) Marcos as guarantor of the safety of the two U.S. military bases in the Philippines; 

2) 
The opposition as a scapegoat of the government so that the Filipinos will not ex­plode; 

3) 
Margarita Villalon as co-president of the questionable 1985 Inter-national Student Or­ganization elections. 


Eid did not even present arguments to sup­port his claims. By his words "we know," he assumed the issues were self-evident. He used an entirely different issue (the Philippine election) to express his bitterness towards the results oflast year's ISO election. 
I advise Mansour Eid to use a more rational method in expressing his views, or better yet, to take a logic class. 
Patrta S. Mestna Lewis Hall 
Letter's purpose, facts seem very questionable 
Dear Editor: 
Mansour Eid claimed in his letter to the 
editor on Feb. 11 that "the opposition is only a 
means of escape that is provided by the 
government so that the people won't ex­
plode." I challenge him to present facts that 
back his statement. If the opposition was 
provided by the government, how could 
Corazon Aquino have been allowed so much 
support that the government itself would 
resort to such blatant fraud? 
Having Ferdinand Marcos in power will indeed guarantee the safety of the military base; this is for the benefit ofthe United States. Eid seems to have dismissed the 55 million people of the Philippines that have been and are suffering from the economic policies of Marcos. 
I wonder ifEid really understands the issues involved in the Philippine elections. If he does, it is not apparent that he has substantial evidence to support his views. Ifhe does not, then I question the purpose ofhis letter. 
jenny Villalon Pasquerllla West 

unpalatable, a serious problem at a time when teacher demand is increasing. 
It becomes apparent that public education faces many questions and few answers. Returning to the initial problem, one hopes that efforts are taken to prevent similar as­saults in the future, but hopefully not at the expense of our students' education. In­novative solutions are demanded and will re­quire much work, but clearly we must find new ideas to solve the many problems of education. 
Kevin Mundy is in the Freshman Year of Studies at Notre Dame and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Girls' theft of red hat puts blotch on everyone 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is directed at what I hope is a relatively small group of people, namely the student/thieves running loose on campus and two girls in particular. 
Already this semester I and my friends, with the help of the aformentioned thieves, have lost several items. In general, I hesitate to use the word steal, because it is often easy to pick something up by mistake. However, why do these people then make no attempt to return the article? Don't they realize that its owner might miss it? In most instances, the item is surely of value primarily only to its owner. It really isn't difficult to stop by Lost and Found, or just to check out the lost and found ads in The Observer. 
But, while these people's actions are reprehensible, they are not the reason behind my letter; it is the outright thieves that bother me most. The incident that prompted this let­ter occurred last week. When I accidentally left a cap in a classroom in O'Shaughnessy Hall, my professor pi~ked it up and left it with the secretary in the government department. When I checked there about it, someone had already stolen it from the office. 
Somehow two incredibly devious and deceitful young women had discovered .the hat was lost and convinced a cleaning lady to unlock the office after hours. They actually had the gall to teU her that it was their lost hat. What makes their crime even worse is that on learning the truth ofwhat happened, the maid felt responsible and offered to pay for the hat. Somehow I suspect that the thieves were bet­ter able to afford the cap than the maid would be. 
Losing a cap is really no big deal, even if it was my favorite Christmas present and my ears are now freezing. That's not the point. The point is that this is supposed to be a Chris­tian community and its members are supposed to have some sense of morality and values. Young women going to this much trouble to steal something as small as a cap is really rather disgusting, and a symptom of a greater problem ofdishonesty on this campus and in society in general. 
Again, I realize not everyone at Notre Dame is a kleptomaniac. The concern expressed by my friends, the government office and the maid is proofofthis. But even one instance of outright theft is too many. 
One final message to the thieves: that red Kangol cap is pretty distinctive and I have lots of friends looking for it. Ifyou care to recon­sider your actions, Lost and Found is on the second lloor ofLaFortune. 
Therese Fink Walsh Hall 


Editorial Board Operations Board ­
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

MIJilllr1ing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 

News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 

Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­

Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Men nell 
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­

Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy 
taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 

Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 

Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 

Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 
Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 7 
Dogs are sweethearts in their loyalty to us 

any ofthe trustees should ask Uni­versity President Father Theodore 
Hesburgh, "How is Darby O'Gill getting along as the University Chaplain's alter ego? Is he over­extended? Does he show signs of burnout? How will he be replaced when his working days are over? Will you appoint a search commit­tee to conduct interviews for Darby's successor?" 
Darby, I remind you, was a campus minister with advantages over the rest ofus: nobody felt alienated from him as a member of the religious establishment which all Catholics love to treat as a scapegoat. Harvard College was founded after those stern Puritans in Boston grew concerned over who would serve them as clergy when their current godly ministers were lying in the dust. By analogy, it seemed possible that a college might make provision for its canine corps, consisting ofa beast with a lame leg, licensed to act as the hound ofheaven in-residence until he finally wore out. 
Six years ago, on Feb. 18, the first O'Gill went to the great playing fields in the sky, leaving no heirs. No procedures had been set up to replace him. To make sure that no ground was lost by a long vacancy in the Darby-corner, I answered an ad in the Chicago Tribune the very next day, and travelled to Chicago that afternoon to interview can­didates. 
I brought a 9-week-old cocker spaniel back to Notre Dame with me. In the car coming home, I named him Darby O'Gillll, or in Latin, Darbatius (Secondus) O'Gill. The name has stuck. The anniver­sary ofhis name-day is Feb. 19, which was Mardi Gras that year. 
The investiture which gave him (at least in my eyes) an official status was very simple. Hesburgh was getting ready to say Mass for Junior Parents' Weekend. He said to me, "I read in The Observer that your old dog died, and that's hard. But now I see in the paper that you have a new dog, and that's very nice." In honesty, I was worried whether somebody in the chain of command would consider a brand­new Darby living in Keenan de trop. I think Hesburgh wanted me to feel secure in knowing Darby O'Gill II was welcome as an additional mouth to feed at Notre Dame. 

Now, that replacement beastie is the same age, at the same point of his life, as the trailblazer was when I tried to make him an item with the trustees. For 16 years, I have nad • the privilege ofsharing pastoral opportunities with the cocker spaniels of my choice here in the Emerald City. Charlie Brown's Snoopy used to keep a Van Gogh in his doghouse. Darby would happily keep a whole gallery ofpictures of the administrators to whom he is grateful for a place in the sun. He sleeps under my bed, however, where I discourage him from han­ging anything. 
A little animal is important to his owner; but in the great scheme of things, he turns out to be just a dog like all the other well-loved pooches that human beings dote on. The miracle ofa dog is that he's the kind ofcreature that does a lot ofgood on his own initiative: cheer­ing up children, keeping old folks company, taking his owner out for walks, listening to tired students. At a university, a dog doesn't have to be accounted for in the budget, provided with an endowment, offered retirement benefits, or granted tenure ifhe's published enough -and he doesn't have to win all the games. Above all, he doesn't have to take up the trustees' time when they should be discussing whether to give the Keenan Revue status as a varsity sport. I should have been smart enough to know this 1 0 years ago. 
What a dog needs basically is a master or mistress to take care of, who will take good care ofhim. You'd drive the dog crazy if you tried to teach him to rely on a ~om­mittee. Reliance on a committee is called politics. A dog, to his credit, is not a politicial animal. 
Somebody gave me this poem many years ago. It could serve as a Valentine to a great variety offour­legged friends: ' 
"God summoned a beast from thefield and He said, Behold man, created in my image. Therefore adore him. You shall protect him in the wilderness, shepherd his flocks, watch over his children, accompany him wherever be may go· even unto civilization. You shall be his companion, his ally, hiss/ave. 
"To do these things, God said, I endowyou with these instincts uncommon to other beasts: faith­fulness, devotion, and understand­ing surpassing those ofman himself Lest it impairyour courage, you shall never foresee your death. Lest it impairyour loyalty, you shall be blind to the faults ofman. Lest it impairyour understanding, you are denied the power ofwords. Let nofault of language cleave an accord beyond that ofman with any other beast · or even man with man. Speak to your master only with your mind, 

Father Robert Griffin 
letfers to a lonely God 
A 
bout I 0 years ago, I wrote an open letter in The Observer to the Board ofTrustees on the well­being of my cocker spaniel, the original Darby O'Gill, predecessor of my current sidekick, Darby O'Gillll. 
Darby I rendered some service to this place, as many could tell you. For a full decade, the length ofhis life, he was a darned good listener. During the '70s, students were going crazy, trying to find listeners who wouldn't insist on getting in the last word. Many potential dropouts told their problems and complaints to a patient animal with ears that were made ofsilk. He loved serving as a listening post, and many students told me how much peace he brought them. 
Everyone else at Notre Dame in those days was making reports to the board. Some of those trustees must have known more about the effects of parietals on hall pizza sales than the rectors did. I volun­teered my report on Darby, in case 
~ 
...... 
T~,~~..Cf/lltS~ 
• Show ND or SMC atudent or ataJfID " and get a 1 0" dfacount 
18081 State R011d 23 Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend. Indiana 48837 (219) 277·2870 

Treat your Valentine to dinner. 
Open 7 Days a Week Lunches startinc at•••••••12.95 Dinners starting at._ •••••• 14.25
2 Locations: 
lar open 7 days a week

South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy. (RoMiand) 
Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30 a.•.·10 ,... 

Next to Randall's Inn 272-7376 
Fri•.sat.: 11:30 •·•··11 P.•·

"Elkhart, 810 N. Nappanee Sl 293·3499 Sun. & Holltbys11:30 a.•.·10 p.a 


H 
A 
p p 
y 


gou n.-~X£ n£FE£L. so 60001 
v 
A L E IV 
T 
I N E 
:> 
and through your honest eyes. 
"Walk by his side; sleep in his doorway; forage for him, ward off his enemies, carry his burdens, share his afflictions; love him and comfort him. And in return for this, man willfulfill your needs and wants · which shall be onlyfood, shelter and affection. 
"So be silent, and be a friend to man. Guide him through the perils along the way to the land I have promised him. This shall beyour destiny and immortality. So spake the Lord. And the dog beard and was content." 
This sounds like a tough job description to lay on an animal you cherish as a playmate. God, as the saying goes, hasn't finished with him yet. The charm of Darby O'Gill II is not that he does all these won­derful things, but that he thinks he does them. That's why, to me, he's a sweetheart on Valentine's Day. 


DearAim. You're still the only one who turns this thug into paste 
111 be missing you big time today. 
Love. 
KH.I 
Spaghetti 
linguini Beer & Wine 
!\t08tlccloH 
RnioH 
Canneloni 
"""PJ!J'JI!r?!!lt" COUPON . 
1

Manicotd 
-;;;;;;TA-'1763 LW.E. .·

C.p~llettl •M.:AL PRICF.S• 
SOUTH IDID t•xt t• PlloJIMoiJ

Lunch-53.29 •SAUCF.S• Dinner-54.99 
BUY 1 LUNCH or DINNER / Cheese Sauce Children-$1.99 
GET 2nd OF EQUAL OR LESS 

MeatS.Uce 
VALUE AT Yz PRICE 
ODHnol •tiPirto~rywt Ito tid~ "Mille Onltfls'!Ol

Me1tball Sauce All Our Meals 
I 
IVhHMd :~~~. ~ ~OIIIb!~ wllfi~C~<~WIJOII

Red Sauce Include 
Clam Sauce Salad, Bread ____EXPTA~:s 2!2J~ 
& Spumone "CARAVOUT DOES NOT APPLY 



Accent 
Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 8 
Nicki gets clues to 'ghostly' identity of Dutch 

routinely rose for an early breakfast in "A" line ofthe North Dining Hall. 
VALENTINE?!!! In Heart & Soul Love, from 11 ~1E 11 in 
D e n v e r 

Deldre, Happy Birthday Happy Valentines Day Love, Bill 
lll1SH, • YfJA"/E WON 
OQ~ ~EAm! 


~·C? 

' , 1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE , SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46635
0 

,, ironwood hquors 
(219) 272-7144 
Express 
Your 

Love! 
Flowers Say It Best!® 

Flowers are the ideal way to show your love this Valentine's Day. Send the AFS VALENTINE'S DAY ARRANGEMENT 


40rl DIXiE WAY NORTH SOUTH SEND, IN 46637 
272-6363 

This is the 18th episode ofThe  
Observer's serial publication ofthe  
Notre Damefootball story, "The  
Gipper'6 Ghost." In last week's  
episode, the Fighting Irish had  
risen to the top 10 tn the college  
football polls after maultngs ofAir  
Force, Navy and Southern Met­ 
hodist l[ntverstty.  
Woman's  
intuition  
omething had happened earlierS in the week that might have an  
unfortunate impact on Notre  
Dame's bowl chances.  
The Gipper's Ghos~ ·ll'il·ler18 w  
"Dutch, your hair is gettmg a  
r  little long, don't you think?" Nicki  
r  Summers had asked at breakfast the  
r r  past Tuesday morning. "Why don't you let me give you a haircut?"  
r r  "After what happened to Samson? Forget it."  
"Well at least let me make an  
appointment for you at the Univer­ 
sity barber shop."  
"Nicki...."  
"You do like me, don't you?"  
"Ofcourse I do."  
"Good. I'll make an appointment  
for 10a.m."  
Dutch and Nicki had become a  
steady item. The pair had made a  
habit ofstarting the day together  
ever since Dutch discovered she  

Dutch, whom his roommate Hart Collins said never climbed out of bed until at least 10 a.m. before his first date with Nicki, had reformed 

completely. He was up, showered and shaved by 7 a.m., just so he could be near Nicki. 
After breakfast, the two often took a brisk stroll around one ofthe lakes before Nicki's 8 am. class. It was during Tuesday morning's walk that her suspicions were first aroused. 
Although Nicki adored Dutch, certain things about him puzzled her. Although he had a fascination for early-20th century history, his grasp of more recent events was minimal. He had an almost childlike enthusiasm for such everyday, routine items as personal com­puters and videocassette recorders. 
And he used the oddest language at 
times. Quaint, almost antiquated. 
And there was another thing. She 
had often wondered why someone 
with such remarkable athletic gifts had never been "discovered" in high school. Surely, at least one of 
Notre Dame's alumni scattered throughout the country would have dropped a line about him to the athletic department. 
Anyway, Dutch hadbeen amusing her by retelling some ofhis favorite anecdotes about his football-playing experiences, when he said something that haunted her. 
Dutch had said, "Well, here Norm Barry and I were having a little friendly competition to see who could score the first touchdown against Valparaiso ...." 
Norm Barry. That's odd, Nicki had thought. As sports editor, I know almost every player on the team. I don't remember a Norm Barry. 
Later that day, from her desk in the Observer ofice, she called the Sports Information Department for background information about Reagan for a profile she was writing for the newspaper. It struck her as odd how little information Char­lene Selleck had about Reagan. Charlene usually had every detail at her fingertips. Ifa Notre Dame football player had thrown his first football at age two, Charlene would know about it, and publicize it. · 
Curious. 
Nicki told herself, you're a sportswriter, not an investigative reporter. More than that, Dutch is your friend. More than that ... Dutch may be ... more than that. 
Norm Barry. 
She reached into her file drawer and pulled out her reference copy of the annual Notre Dame Football Guide. She scanned this year's team roster. No Norm Barry listed. 
Something · women's intuition perhaps -compelled her to turn to the all-time roster which indexed the names ofevery football player who had earned a Notre Dame monogram. Interesting. There were three Norm Barrys listed: one around 1920, another around 1940, and yet another around 1970. She 


:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;: ~:::;:;:: 
Valentine's Party\ Saturday, Feb. 15 at 10:30 pm 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::~::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::: 
Sunday,Feb.16 $1 Molsens 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
thought, wouldn't it be something if all these guys were related? 
She tried to recall Dutch's exact words: "Well, here Norm Barry and I were having a little friendly, com· petition to see who could score the first touchdown against Val­paraiso...." 
Valparaiso! 

She began frantically scanning past schedules, looking for ... who knows? 
Then she found an even bigger clue. 
Notre Dame hadn't played a football game against Valparaiso since the year 1920. , 
To be continued ... 
From "The Glpper's Ghoo~" copyrlpt 1985 by Roben Quackenbush. Publlshed by O'Connor Publlshlns Co. Reprinted by permlulon. 
Queen's Castle 
t:1 The Knllhts 
$5 student $S SO complete ~ut • style 
Minutes Away From Campus 272-0321 I 277-1691 Discounts For All Students nOul women liieliuled W• •bo,_tur• th• a~I BroliN
.............,c.......
·-·................
noth..,r• 

FRIDAY 
IIIJWr .,AlBV~ ~ ~r 
St. Pauli Specials! ... and the memories of your 1st LOVE!! 
SATURDAY 
D.J. D.J. D.J. Dance & Dance! 
N.D. or S.M.C. I.D. Required tJ 







Love is all around on 
MARY BERGER 
features writer 
T 
rue confessions No. 287: I am a romantic. 
I am a hopeless romai).tic. I love all of the 
~weet, sticky, soppy aspects of Valentine's 
Day. 

Take cards for example. Stores flU their 
shelves the day after Christmas with cards 
appropriate for every type of relationship. 
For those unsure that the infatuation and 
love they feel are mutual, there are cards 
which drop hints without being extremely 
obvious. Secret admirers can send silly or 
serious cards without revealing their true 
identities. One can even find a card which 
plays "your song" every time it is opened. 
For people wh~ find it difficult to say what Perfume or cologne and jewelry are Hut wbat is given is not important. wby 
they feel, pretty, poetic cards are wonderful long-lasting presents which, when worn, will something Is given Is. 
because their prose puts into words what always remind the receiver of the giver. It does not mean more if a dozen long­
other Cyrano de Bergeracs can't. Besides, the Having one's senses tingled by a familiar stemmed red roses arrive at one's door than 
cupids, lace and hearts which adorn these scent brings memories flowing back just as if his or her sweetheart whispers, "I love 
cards can put anyone in the mood for love. wearing a favorite necklace or ring does. you." As long as each person Is aware ofhis 
A crazy but fun way to say "I love you" is to Rich, sinful chocolates are good gifts because love for the other, and It feels like a celebra· 
h;!ve a bouquet ofballoons or a singing they are sweet and delicious like love. tlon when each is together, sh;irlng In this 
telegram delivered by a life-size cupid Flowers, especially roses, have to be the wonderfully sweet, sticky, soppy day set 
complete with bow, arrow and diaper. number-one extravagance on Valentine's aside for lovers everywhere can be a great 
Classifieds in a newspaper let that special Day. Dethorned so that none of the pains of experience. 
person and everyone else know how much love are stirred, roses are brillant, full, soft, 
love one feels. If the personals do not reveal a alive and strong. Whether passionate red, 
love note, the lost-and-found section may. eternal white, sweet pink or friendly yellow, 
Maybe the ad that reads "LOST: one heart to roses are the beauty oflove. 
the most wonderful person in the world" is 
the right one. 

Sharing meals has been a sign ofcelebra· 
tion throughout the ages. On Feb. 14 food 
and beverage lend another way for lovers to 
celebrate. 

For romance just imagine a dimly lit 
corner of a French bistro, a trio ofstrolling 
violinists and a table set for two, complete 
with a dozen red roses and a magnum ·of 
champagne. 

A horse-and-carriage ride finishes a pretty 
close second, though. listening to the horse's 
hooves clapping along the cobblestones and 
snuggling beneath a down comforter with 
the moon and the stars overhead brings all 
the nostalgia ofromance home. 
Tradition is part ofwhat makes Feb. 14 
such a special day every year. Having one day 
devoted entirely to love and lovers keeps the 
romance in everyone alive. 
'One may find these ideas too soppy for 
sweethearting, but take heart. There are 
aiways traditional Valentine's Day gifts upon 
which to rely. 

Happenings-page 2 Friday, February 14, 1986 
What was your most memorable Valentine? 


LISA YOUNG "That'd be kinda embarrassing.'' "When the guy I broke up with "Last year when I took my "My girlfriend sent me a singing features staffwriter PeteSkiko five days earlier gave me balloons, girlfriend out to dinner ... now valentine with balloons, and I flowers and candy in school." she's engaged to some other guy." wasn't home to get it. They sang it 
"In seventh grade I got a box of

"Q Jane Heisel Tom Hutton to my parents.''
ne ofthe nice things about hearts." 
Daniel Groody
co-education is that I was 

Joan Anderson never conscious about Valentine's 

"Feb. 14, 1982 -my 16th birthday 
"The year my mom got me a Day before I started getting -my hometown was snowbound puppy." Valentines." Father Theodore and five of my closest friends Tim Lake 
Hesburgb., walked miles through the snow to University President bring me a singing telegram and a 
birthday cake." "Last year my girlfriend got me a r "Well, I guess sending my wife EUeen Hoffmann bottle ofchampagne. She had it in r yellow roses." Richard "Digger" her car, and when we got to her car 
r 
Phelps it wasn't there." 
r 
Patrick Brennan 

"Last year when 10 guys from Alumni serenaded me outside my window." 
"I think it'sa fabricated, capitalis­
JulleMaier 
tic holiday that promotes consumer consumption of Hallmark cards." 

"When I got Valentine's under-
Jodie Githens

wear." Stephanie Iverson 
The Observer/Drew Sandler 
"When I was canceled on a din­"I did singing valentines last year "My Army discharge happened 


ner date ... it was her birthday and for Glee Club at Saint Mary's." 
on Valentine's Day after World War everything." Tom Foster 
II." 

Mike Hanahan Paul M;lhoney, Library security "The year my girlfriend gave me aguard 
big collage ofeverything we'd done together ... then we broke up a 

The Observer/Drew Sandler 
little while after that." 

"The year I tried to mail a $1 "Probably this one, because I 
Rich Whalen poster-size Valentine's card to my have a Stats test ... I'm boycotting boyfriend. I had to send it by bus, Valentine's Day." "Mine is yet to come.'' and it cost me ns." Kevin Kane Mike Schwaab Anne MarieJanairo 
"I never have a girlfriend on 
"This one coming up is definitely Valentine's Day." 
going to be my favorite. My Giovanni Kotoriy 
girlfriend is flying up from Florida." ' Kevin O'Connor 

"I never have a girlfriend anytime." "When my sister asked me to be Pete Murphy godfather for her baby."
"My birth. My mother said I was Jim Kowalski born with 'hearts in my hands.' " 
"The year my boyfriend and I
Father Andre Leveille 
"Last year IJ!Y mom sent me a card that my dad had sent me as a 

were in a fight. He got mad and 
shoved the chocolates in my"The year I was on a yacht in locker." little girl. She found it again and
"Freshman year I dated a senior, 

Catalina. We had a romantic dinner sent it back to me."
Deirdre Logue 
and we bought a bottle ofcham­

on the boat and then we went Felicia Leon 
pagne and a pizza. We sat out in thehiking. We went camping and slept cold by the St. Joseph's River. We "Last year I gave three roses toovernight in tents ... with our 

"I seem to break up just before 
froze while we ate cold pizza and three different girls, and it didQ't parents." Valentine's Day." 

drank champagne." work out with any ofthem."
Janet Grojean 

"We went out to dinner at Jeremiah Sweeney's sophomore year." 
"And he always left balloons and candy and flowers whenever I opened my door onValentine's Day." 
MJkeNappi 
and Teresa Kllgannon Ed Kirchmier 


"There was this guy in my math class, and I had a crush on him for about a year. He called me and asked if I wanted to go out for din­ner. We went out for dinner and he brought me a rose." 
JennHer McNeill 
Dancing the night away for MS 
A 
KATHYROE Music will be provided by the Tickets are $3 per person, and features writer band Britches. A dance contest will they are available at the class offices be held later, offering as prizes or from a Freshman Advisory Coun­ccording to tradition, dinners at various local restaurants. cil representative. Officers en­
Valentine's Day is a holiday for Other events include a kissing courage students to buy tickets sweethearts. This year's only booth featuring local campus from their particular class officers fundraiser for multiple sclerosis celebrities. because the class that sells the most 
builds on this theme with a For those students who still don't tickets receives $350. Last-minute Valentine's Day dance Friday night have plans for spring break, the ticket purchases can be made at the that may remind people to care not main attraction ofthe dance could 
door. only for their sweethearts but for be the raftle for a Florida trip fur the physically handicapped, also. two. Announcement ofthe winner, Doors open at Stepan Center at 
The first 100 girls through the who must be present to claim the 8:30p.m., and Britches will be dance's door in Stepan Center will prize, will take place at 11 p.m.. playing from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., allow­receive free flowers. All students MS Campaign Director Vince ing students to dance the night 
and faculty are welcome whether Willis said he is hoping fur a crowd away while giving their hearts to they come stag or as couples. of2000. the MS campaign. 
Break out of your shell 
er.p~r.u. ,q~.,

f>e daring and enjoy as little or as much as you like from the Wharfs star-studded menu. It's a new way to dine that lets you select a little or a lot of all your favorites. 
Lori Kluczyk Ken McManus 

SummerEmployment 
Large resort on east entrance to Glaciar National Park seeking student employees for 1986 season including waiters, waitresses, front desk, bar help clerks, kitchen help, service stations and maintenance. 
Representatives will be interviewing Monday and Tuesday, Feb. 17and 18,from 9am to 5pm in the Career and Placement Services office. Please sign up for appointment. 
For off-campus, Sunday appointments, Feb. 16, please contact Sean Pieri 283-2175. 


Happenings-page 3 Friday, February 14, 1986 
·­

Garner and Field shine in 'Murphy's Romance' 

BOB MUSSELMAN 
featun?s writer 

ou know you're getting old when JamesY Garner starts looking less like the Marlboro Man and more like your father. 
Garner teams with fellow maturing performer Sally Field in "Murphy's Romance," an enjoyable movie that proves Garner really can act and reiterates Field's escape from the world of"The Flying Nun" and "Smokey and the Bandit." 
Movie review I
Murphy's Romance 
***(outolfour) 
The two meet when divorced Emma Moriarty (Field) moves to a dilapidated Arizona horse ranch to start a new life with her Il-year-old son, Jake (Corey Haim ). She goes to the nearby town ofEunice to solicit people who would like to board their horses on her farm. 
Murphy Jones (Garner) is the town widower, a folksy pharmacist who drives a 1927 Studebaker (to the delighted whispers of a South Bend crowd, living in the city with the official Studebaker museum). Murphy informs Emma that in Eunice "you can carry a gun, but you can't get an abortion." 
The two take a plator.ic shine to each other; Murphy comforts Emma during bad times and buys a horse to give her some boarding business. It's not romance yet, but the heros form a decent friendship. 
Then over the horizon on a big motorcycle comes Emma's ex-husband. Hobby Jack (Brian Kerwin). The cowboy beach bum's attraction is only skin-deep, and Emma realizes he's still good for nothing beyond the bedroom. Jake's gut feelings for his dad, however, force Emma to let the leech stick around and attempt to earn his keep. 
Murphy, pushed by some competition, begins going out ofhis way to show Emma he 

/Music 
1~1 

• 
The Notre Dame music department presents pianist WUUam Cernyon Sunday In the Annenberg Auditorium. Cerny has performed previously the 62 Haydn sonatas, the 19 Mozart sonatas and the complete 32 Beethoven sonatas. A profes­sor of music at Notre Dame, Cerny will present a solo piano recital free. 

• 
The Elkhart Cor.~nty Sympbony Or­chestra, conducted by Dr. Michael Es­selstrom, will present a concert of Russian music Sunday at the Beickman Performing Arts Center at Concord High School. The program includes the Scheherazade Suite by Nickolas Rimsky-Korsakov and the Ser­gei Rachmaninov Piano Concerto No. 2 in C minor with John Owings, plano soloist. Tickets to the 3:30 p.m. performance are 


J4 for college students. Tickets are available at the door and in advance at the symphony office, located in the Midwest Commerce Bank Building. 

' 

'Movies 
• The sophomore class hosts "Bachelor Party" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Tom Hanks is Rick Gassko, a carefree young bus driver who has decided to give up his freedom to marry his girlfriend, Debby, played by Tawny Kitaen. Debby's parents and her former boyfriend, Cole, are determined to stop the wedding. They may be helped uni­ntentionally by Rick's well-meaning friends who plan to throw a bachelor party he'll never forget. "Bachelor Party" features original music by The Alarm, The Flc:shtones, R.E.M., Oingo Boingo and An­gel and the Returns. Admission to the 7, 9 and 11 p.m. shows is $1.50. 
loves her. Bobby Jack, frustrated by Murphy's more frequent visits, promises Emma more than he possibly can provide. 
Emma doesn't take Bobby Jack seriously, but she's so worried about her and Jake's future that she doesn't see the gleam in Murphy's eyes. The resolution occurs when BobbyJack hits the road. Murphy takes advantage ofthe opening. 
Actually, it's an old plot that requires considerable skill to make it work. Garner and Field pass their tests, but support never develops. Bobby Jack is too much ofa jerk, and Jake plays nothing more than a confused kid. 
Excellent writing and directing make the story move at a steady pace. Without witty and intelligent lines and their solid delivery by Field and Garner, the film would plod along like Murphy's Studebaker. The Western scenery is nice, too. 
"Murphy's Romance" is a good film, but don't expect Garner to chase down a few bad guys or punch out a punk. He's getting old, you know. 

Art 
~I 
• "Mauricio Lasansky: A Retrospective Exhibition" opens Sunday in O'Shaughnesssy Gallery West of The Snite Museum of Art. Born in Buenos Aires in 1914, Lansansky Is one of the few modern artists who limited his work almost ex­clusively to the printmaking media. Best known for his "Nazi Drawings," he uses highly emotional subject matter and richly textured surfaces. Touring nationally, "Mauricio l..asansky: A Retrospective Ex­hibition" was organized by the Cedar Rapids Museum of Art. Museum hours are from lO a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday, l to 4 p.m. Sunday, and Thursday evenings from 4 to 6 p.m. Admission is free. 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
Church this weekend will be: 
Father Andre Leveille at 5 p.m. (Saturday 
night vigil). 
FatherJames Flanigan at 9 a.m. 
Father Andre Leveille at l 0:30 a.m. and 
I 2:15p.m. 
The schedule for confessions in Sacred 
Heart Church is: 
Monday through Saturday at 11: l 5 a.m. 
Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt. 
Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15p.m. in the Lady Chapel. The rosary is said daily at 6:45p.m. at the Grotto. 

-
• 
-





The Scoop 
• The Indiana University at South Bend continues its spring semester film series Sunday night with "The French Lieutenant's Woman." Constructed as a film within a rum, this movie features Meryl Streep as a 20th century actress portraying Sara Woodruff, a 19th century woman. Tickets to the 8 p.m. show at the Uttle Theater ofNorthside hall on the IUSB campus are $1.75. 
• The department ofcommunications and theater presents "Stavisky" tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. The film is a recounting ofthe climactic days in 19 3 3 in the career of a con man turned interna­tional financier whose ruin resulted in a political scandal and his own death. Star­ring Jean-Paul Belmondo, this is one of Alain Resnais' most visually exquisite rums. Tickets to the 7:30 al\d 9:45p.m. shows are $1.50. 

Friday, February 14, 1986 
.... Happenings-page 4 
Bridget's not unique, but you can walk to it 
B 
JOHN AFFLECK and a Notre Dame football helmet with a features writer green lightbulb hooked up inside it. Other than the ceiling, Bridget's decor, ridget McGuire's Filling Station is kind of except for the brick floor, is pretty non­a necessary evil. No one goes to Bridget's descript. It is, after all, a converted filling for the ambiance, as it might be said. station, hence the name Bridget McGuire's 
But with a convenient location at the Filling Station. corner ofSouth Bend Avenue and Eddy Maybe it's because ofthe specials or as a Street (the Five Points area), good drink result ofits location, but whatever the specials and a dull campus social life, many reason, very often Bridget's becomes ex­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students seem tremely crowded. Lately, Mondays, Tuesdays willing to put up with the less-than­and Thursdays have been the worst nights for spectacular surroundings to have some fun. this problem. When Bridget's is wall-to-wall 

people, it's really not worth bothering to enter; one would be better offgoing to 
Albert's or Lee's Grill and Barbecue or the 
Cap'n'Cork. 

When it's not acting as a major social outlet for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, 
-
Bridget's isn't all that bad; it's not really a nice bar but it does have some personality. 
At Bridget's there is a special ofsome sort every night during the week. Mondays there are 45-cent drafts, Tuesdays there is a deal on shots ofSchnapps, Wednesdays 7-ounce Lowenbraus are 50 cents and on Thursdays bottled Molsons are a buck. 
Bridget's does have some personality going for it, too. There is an old guy who often comes in and plays harmonica in the far corner of the bar. No one ever pays any attention to him. One couldn't hear him if one wanted to anyway because he is drowned out by the music from the speakers overhead. 
What the music coming from those speakers is depends entirely on on the bartender's taste, since the stereo/tape player is behind the bar. Usually it's one of about seven or eight party tapes, the best of which combine classic rock'n'roll tunes with stuff like Peter Tosh and Mick)agger doing "Walk and Don't Look Back." 
One can never really get bored at Bridget's because if there's no one to talk to one can always look at the ceiling. Bridget's puts most ofits decorations up high enough not to get beer spilled on them. Among the things hanging from Bridget's ceiling are: antique beer signs, un-antique beer signs, penants of the Chicago Cubs, Fightin' Irish and Univer­sity ofMichigan, a "Hard Hat Area" sign, a black light, plants (they've got to be plastic) 
-
L.....----------------------------------------~---~­
Clockwise .from top: Mike as Kevin Keenan talks over the loud din at Bridget's; a coed concentrates before a shot; a group ofstudents engage in lively discus­
sion. 

The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 9 .. 
The Ohserr•er Nolrr Damt· otlkl'. hKalt·d on lht· lhird Ooor of l.a~orlum· SIUdl'nl Ct'nler. an·t·pls <:la"ifkd ad,·l'rliMng from') am. unril ~ p m ..\londJ\ lhrough hida\' The Ohserr•er Saini Man·, officl'. h><·alt·d on lht· lhtrd Ooor of llaggar Colil'gl' Ct·nlt·r. an:rpl' da"ifinl' from I 2 .~0 p m unrol ~ p m . \lon· day !hough Frida\ lkadlinl' t<•r nt'XI·da' da"ilkd' i' .~ p.m All da"ifit·d, muM ht· prt·paid. l'ilht·r in pt·rM>n or h\ mail ( .hargt· i' I 0 t'""'' pt·r fj,.., t·harat··



Classifieds 
lt'rs n dav 

IIAKE THI! COIIIIITIIENT  SANDY BOTHAM-1 oouldn'l p-up the  WANTED: "A demending only" for cor­ KIIVInllrywl  
NOTICES  ]  .__l_TI_CK_E_TS______. •••••'1 ..........................................................  lat.I::IOa.m.  opportunity to wilh you a happy valentines clay... Jo-Thankl tor making my world euch an  reepondence & commitment. Mull be f101'G80UI btunene w/ engaging laugh and lov"'v eyu. Mull have Florentine ,_.,.,, drink diet Stice, play Uno, enjoy  I'm glad -mel-you're my favorite JUNIOR! H-wy V-Day. Next thu..-y? SPECIAL PRE-VALENTINES DAY  
Typing Avllilable 287-4082 TYPING CALL CHRIS DC-1117.  Need GAa tor Depaul or Dayton games. c.J1 Chad 3864. .............................................................. Need Gaa tor Depaul game cdJell 2248 PauNna Porizkova and Ele Macphonon wiN do anything lor 2 Ga'a tor the Dayton game, call John at2160  Come See FALSTAFF I HAL In Chicago 0!' Feb.20 Tlcketa $20.00 In 309 O'Shag. HAPPY .IITHDAY EILI!I!N HOFFMANN! Hope your 20th yMr le tul ol many more fun tim• Nke: Ugly, the Shore, Mr. Apathy and/or Mr. Brar?, peanut buner on ch-and the grapavlnel You deeerve  incredibly wonderful place to be. Happy Velentin81 Dayl I need a ride to Clevund the -.kend ol Feb 21-231 Wfl lhare uaulli or help rentl c.ll UN at 2955. ..........................................................;;..... Eileen HOitmann-H-wy Valentine'• Day ... but more lmportandy HAPPY,  George Wfneton. and have high jerk tolerance. No enigm• need apply. c.ll collect. F.D.N.Y. DEAR NANCY I ANNIE : I HOPE YOU HAVE A HOT AND SWEET VALENTINES DAY YOUR FRIENDS, HANK &BIG GUY  MESSAGE FOR THEREBA "POOH" HARRINGTON W.. u long • we're celebrating today I want to tell you tllet you're the cu­prtnceee I've ever carried ovar a anowbank. You allo have great tate In champagne but lhal'a Mot· her atory. Be my mumnl Love. Kria BEST FRIEND AND FUTURE HUBBlE,  
llt*NIU DPfiiiU,INC. Wanlprooe.lftl-typl"' 272--27  P-helplll Need one, )ull one DePaul IIUdenl ticket II Wfl pay S$. Fr11nd driving many mllaa tor game. c.ll Tnecy 4241.  the belli Love, your "peycho" roomie Judy. P.S. Mayyou -yebebyanopen windowI  HAPPY 20th BIRTHDAY!II Love, Kathy. Erin. Krillfn, and Uu  MARK RYAN HAPPY VALENTINES DAY LOVE, YOUR NERVOUS BREAKDOWN CREW  THANK YOU FOR COMING UP THIS WEEKEND. I'M STILL "ATTACHED"! HAPPY V-DAY. I LOVE YOUIII • YOUR UTTLEGIRL  
DPI,IIT TYPING NJMCE. CALL ....CQKI!II, 2»-1001. ATTN: ITUDI!H'B Dolor• Frand1 typing MfVIce phone nu""* change 2n-Bt3t TrMted untllirly by a loclli mechanic lately? I have and I want to do eomethlng about lt. c.11 Joe at 272 · 58011 and t ..him your llcfy.  NEED DAYTON TIX. 2 STUD. & 2 G.A:e OR 4 G.A.1. CALL CHRIS-1135. Willing to give flrat born child or S$ for 1 DePaul G.A. Cell Mlke102tl. TopS tor Dayton GAl. Gall John 2388. ................................................................ I REALLY NEED 2 TIX TO DAYTON I GA OR STUDENT. PLEASE CAll KATH· LEEN 232~2119. I NEED 2 GA'S AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR DAYTON. LET MY PARENTS SEE THE GAME. CAll 2602 AND ASK FOR DREW.  CHUCK· YO FAEI Sony tllle can't be one ol tlloea magic marker and typing paper valentinea. But lhe lllf1timenllremllin the Mme. Here'ato many more tankal, Nazz perlormancaa (and thOII who do them), Wllllh/OC Secret S-.thearll, Ad Deeign(??), and "Tim• ot Your Ute." I'M pa. on the double cartwh... tllanka anywayl Alwaye remember: "A day le not WMied H a memory le ..-." LOVE DEBBIE OUOTI!OFTHI!DAY: Bener to be bankrupt ethically than financially.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY SHANNON WALSHPhll,­don't care anymore.LET'S GO ANIMAL! hope II hu hla eyea and your btllin.Are tlloea ah­clean? Morria Inn Solo TMm.Wal,my medicine kicked In today.Juleelov• you L•.Hope 11'1 the beatlOVE,Francee !IliADand DIII!W How about that NVA l'aCCJIIIball game? Don't worry about II. After al, other guye have been blown out before. You guye -en·t the flnet. ...ROOMIE, HAVE FUN FRIDAY NIGHT! Opey Mary, If you want to know the reuona  MR. T(E), WHO EVER SAID THAT LOVE IS BLIND? MAYBE IrS A BLIND DATE I DIII!Wu.HUI EVEN THOUGH YOU LIKE HEAVY ROCK EVEN THOUGH YOU DIDN'T BELIEVE I GOT YOU AT-8HIRT EVEN THOUGH YOU WON THE SU· PERBOWLBET I WANT TO WISH YOU A HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY YOU ARE A VERY SPECIAL PERSON THANK YOU FOR BEING YOU I LOVE, A VERY LUCKY GIRL  Deer v... Happy V-Dey. )uel to lei you know I love you mora with each clay and lhe 11ara.,.. n01 high enough tor ue. Love. Brian SP, lch Uebe Diehl Love, SB Joan, AI the claye we apand together nwy ... grMt.bul -dar-wil be better than al tlleolh...l Happy Vllllntlne'l Day With Love, MlchHI HEY HEY WHAT DO VA SAY NO ONE ELSE COULD LOOK THAT WAYI JANE HEISEL YOU ARE TOO HOTII M08  
LOST/FOUND I  PERSONALS  HEATHEll HAPPY 1111111111THDAYf LUV,OEHTI-. HWI  why-Mkme. GOOD LUCK IUWVAN '17 THE TICKET WITH HOHUT EXPERIENCE!  CARSWELL. AND BY THE WAY ... I LOVE YOU. ANN MARIE P.S. HAPPY ANNIVERSARY  STUOMUFFIN. (THArS YOU HOGANFACE) HAPPY VOl YOU'RE GREATI LOVE. BOSSWOMAN CAPTIN KIRK. To my next 1P101 ahultle  
Duetomy"car"'Men-"(l'dhatetotlllnk eomeone elole them), I loll my brown Nt­hng glov• at the new pool locker room laet week. PI-call38t0 ~you have found lhem.Thanki.God wiN love you lor lt. LOST: Gold necldece wilh a croee In a ~. eornewllere new North Dining H ... lt'e·VII'Y Important to mellllound, pleeee calll(ym, 2147. .................................................. . FOUND: Set ol kaye and ~Minge at ACC track on Sunday. c.ll284-3010 to claim. LOST: MEN'S N.D. GOLD RING wilh lni­hala T.A.O. In men'e room on 111 floor Stepan Chemiltry Building (north lide). P..... call3558 LOll: A pllir ollarge blad< laelher glov•ln Nleu. Sc. on 2n. P'-call3528  The only thlngthetluta, /a love! We·re the bridge ecrou forever, er­chlflll above the .... edvenrurlnglor our pleuure, Nvlng myerenu lor the fun of It, choollifiQ dl...,.,. ltlumpha chellengel lmpoulble odda. tuUng oui'Nivu over end IQeln, -nlng love end to.. and LOVE/ PREGNANT? NI!EDHI!LP? c.ll 234-()383. 24-hr. hotllne, oouneellng &lr..pregnancy ..... WOIII!N'I CAlli! CI!IIITEII ................................. OAII HOUlE: COLD .EEII I UQUOII.  - HI-Ho, Joel Ready to carry me acroee the Pacific, tour hel with a Unicow. •• Scar bell and popcorn from the rug, etep on birde, lhout obeceniti81 In math dau, and drivelllong thelidewelk to theoound ol, "You ooulde kiDed aomebodyl" 7 Happy Vllientine'e Day I Love, a clzzy red­head. L;l"dii'.;i;"i;):"i;;,:·~..rid;;"i~';;di;;;:·;;;;;;; Clav~ tllle -kend-Wll pay goodS­pleaM call Dan al2288 ..............,.................................................. ..,.,.._,Come to lhe RATHSKEL­lAR tllle Sunday to watch NO beat Duke on big acreen t.v.l Bu-avllilable($2)-Sign up with dorm repa or lltop by Soph office for a map. Tip­Oil 1:00. GREAT beveragea and food wil be eoldl .............................. Jemle--How oould lever love another? J  TOM COLLINS -I loved your Wipe Out aurfer mov811 WIN I -them again tonlte?-8. VALENTINES Lovell trlendlhlp that hu caughl tire. II Ia quiet underatandfng, mutulli con­fidence, lharlng and forgiving. It II loyalty tllrouc;. good timee and bad. 11111111aa tor ._ than perfiCIIon and mak• al­lowancelforhuman_n_. Love Ia content with the pr-nl, II hopee tor the future and II doeln't brood over the p•t lt'e the clay4n-end-day-out chronlclea ol ifrttatione, problemll, oom­prorn1811, ...... dfaappolntmenll, big vic­tori• and common goall. It you have love In your Ute, II can make  FUN, FRED, KEV, AND "THE GIRLS UPSTAIRS" HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI LOVE, PRISCIL.l..A P.S. KEV-WHAT A WAY TO SPEND VALENTINE'S DAYI GOOD LUCK. CPA, WIN you be mine? HEY SEXY! H-wy Valentine'• Day ... Love Cindy THANKS to that SPECIAL P.E. radio girt tor dedicating Elvia on 2-10 Love -ye. DAD Antonia, Happy Velentine'l Day, dear. KefeT. When yoJ .get tired ol your aoaaword puzzle, tum and NY tllankl for the Valentine'• wieh. Happy Vllienllne'e Day!  commandlrl Foeter wil be 10 proud ol you. Me too. Thankl tor making 11111 r­tlle BESTIHIII The rail w41 be ev1r1 bet· terllll Have a Happy Vlllenline'e Dey .... Love you much, R. P. MONAIIIIHow do I love tllH? Let me oount the waye ... HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI Faithfully youra, JUUUS CEASAR Relevant Valentine'• Dey Ouole: "I found out thetff I WMIId 10 look lor happl..-. I don't haveiO flO any further 11!1111 my own beck yerd." The Wlzwd of Oz Pllid for by the CommlnH to Seduce Dan O'H...,.... )ofn the chapter In your dorml PETER STEWART: LET'S PLAY CHoc­OLATE. LOVE, ME All you licker-tllan-lhe-bonel? Do you have the bune that I love? Tired ol hearing "you'reagHI<"? Then you are the one I'm In love w4tllll See you tonlghtl Love ya, Smurf-city  
LEFT II!HIND IN 206 OR 303 Culhlng on Monday, between 11:55-10:05, one 4 lltCIIon notebool< containing al my not•. I kinda need II bec1< ike IMI. II you oould help me find 11. It would be grMtty liP­predated. call 24 n or 2476 after 11, Ilk for K..-ln. Or )ull tum II In to Loet and Found. .............................. LOST: MEN'S N.D. CLASS RING ON MONDAY. FEB tO IN FIRST FLOOR MENS ROOM OF STEPAN CHEMISTRY HALL. THE RING IS GOLD WITH AN AOUA STONE AND BEARS THE INI­TIALS TAD '66. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll TOM AT 3556. llolen: From my lluclo In the art building. an 16><24 pllinting depleting an atract figure on a bleck background."-'! ol­lered lor retum ol pllinting or Information reeullfng In ltaretum. c.11 Paul Md.ean 28~51118 LOST: ONE PAIR WHITE WEIGHT LIF­TING GLOVES. SOUTH OUAO OR ACC 30 JAN PLEASE CALL CHRISTINE 3764  CAIIIIY OUT TO I A.ll. U.l. 11 N., 1 a.OCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Lovlftl Clltllolc _..,..-toadopt .,Infant. H you know GIMy-whole conelclarl"' l*d"' a child far adop­tion, ~call co11act (217) 1417-11111 afW7p.m. YOUNG TIIAVI!LLI!III NEWILI!TTI!III lnclud81:801l no.; trav"' perlner eervlce;fMtur• on exotic DVII!JIIeAI budget trav.,, work, lludyl Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3867, New Haven, CT. 08525 III!H OF HDTRI! DAilE HAPPY VALI!H11NI!'I DAY Ill Your Wll"' le ov_.DI._.,_,ncad herplanafortllleiiV...."'IIIIIhewiiM Ill the Ill VALEH11NE'I DAHCE-ea 111-"­..,.,.,. plena to be _,..,..Thenu for al your I~ to the Ill DAHCI! TDNIGHTIII FIII!ECOUPOHIIntheyalow~GI the C..pue Telaph-DINCtory. U• tllemle*yl  ........................................................:....... Deer Spanilh Lover, Thankl tor your never-ending patience with my bouncing. Here·a to more oouch lime and more ot your ·kind ot llmel I love you more than warda can Ay. Tu amante Di'l lalt name 11 nol Romano 7 IAII'I WIHTI!II FUT1VAL II COil­INGIll FEB. 24-MARCH 1 BEACH PARTY-SKI TRIP-BOWLING­ICESKATING UNDERGRAD NITE AT SENIOR BAR-AND IIOftEI .T.C. THE M.G., Hey P._Happy V-dayl Juat a note to tel lhe MARINE GOD how much tlll1 cat ml-her burrow-mate! Love, M.G. the T.C. RUKAVINA AND CATANZARITI (tllell ANN and MARIA for lhort)-the two loxl•t C.mpue Vlewe eroun<I-Happy Valentine'• and don't be afraid to GET YOUR SWEETIE SOMETHING FOR V.D.I (I TOLD you!) We both love y'alll  up tor a great many tlllnge you lack. It you don't have II, no maner what ,..lherela, 11'1 not enough. ................................................................ Putry: You are a very epedlli young lady ... thank you tor lharfng a pen ol tlll1 clay, and more lmportandy, a pen ol your Nte with me. Love, Oura en pllouche CATHY COFFI!Y: PLEAII! H IINEI Mike Trantow: Allot my love and devotion to you, oweetheart. Know lhat you can oount on my love no maner HOW fw apart we are. Thle clay wu made tor UI...JOOCOOOI Milling you In Eau Claire Love, Kim LAUIIINI! IIIEQHA Have • grMI clay and a euper weekend! N -ye. llarwf-on the IIMoh IUZYAf  Laurie B. R01811 are red, viofetl are blue, I'm otil hoping to 10meday, go out with you. H-wy Vllienllne'a Day. Pat HEY M.A.P.S., Won't you be my VALENTINE? Thinking ol you· Only bet· -claalaa. Love, M.R. To My Cede!, Thankl for the FANTASTIC pall 22 montlla.Kevln. We're going to have agrMI W-endand a grMI fuWNII love you -aye and unconditionally. 2 PERCENT dub, here we cornel love, Locky Hey Mr. Wally! I Love You Bobby C. I'm eorry about whal'e h-wened th­lutfew montha. I'm radyglad we ..-11 lhrough II al. Her• to many more Valentinea togetharl Love, Your One and DnylnOhlo PUMPKIN -MAY YOUR VALENTINE'S  SUSY PASQUINEW-You eel Mkea HA, but I know you are really W,S,S,&S. You trMI me 10 flne, I want you u my VALENTINE. Tonllell'l be dinner, a filet<, I ... L TO, maybe?(ll leut the firat two) HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI "YOUR Nice Guy" TO THE BEST FRIENDS IN THE WHOLE WORLD ELLYN. ANN, TESS. MARIA, DEBBIE, M.B.,M.J. THANKS FOR PUTTING UP WITH ME HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY! LOVE, MOUSE ................................................................ CMG,All RIGHT,YOU GOT MEII'LL CONFESS AND TELL YOU WHO HE IS. IT'S YOU, MYY ONE AND ONLY VALENTINE. LOVE,DI Marl< and Harmony, Happy St. Valentine'• Day. AI my love. Melody ....................... JEFF OTTO ll'e Valentine'e Dey Think hugging Think killing Think love Think paalion Think US II LOVE YOU! Patty  
Found:PIIir ol glae.-wllh bent. brown lram• on welk by edmln building. c.11 x3352. LOST: S DINING HALL, BlUE BACK­PACK WITH NOTEBOOK. TENNIS SHOES, SWEAT PANT$, KEYS.  ADIIIAHNI! I'M GLAD YOU'RE HERE IIOCKY Thank you St. Jude -EM Thank you St. Jude for watching over me and my family. -PAG  HEY SWEET THING, HAPPY 19TH I All THE BEST AND A HUG BESIDES YEAASI VALENTINE'S DANCE: Logan Center Ia holding a Valentine'• dance Friday from 7:30-10:00. Newvolunteerawewelcome.  Tllfnldftl Gl Your You ..mymiMI"'~ Lova Ya' • llark Hey Sugar: Our Flnet Valentine T ogelherl Love, J. & Willie & the Poor Boya  DAY BE FILLED WITH MERRIMENT AND RAPTURE. LOVE. WHITEY. ANN, LISA, AND M.S.: FRIENDSHIP DEFIES AGE AND IGNORES DIS­TANCE. IT WEATHERS THE HARD TIMES AND SHARES THE GOOD. TOGETHER WE HAVE FOUND THIS.  Johnny D Happy V Dayl Why do I haviiO much fun w4tll you? You're a gr•t pool teacher, lell play again. 3 plecaa ol bumt breed and VIcki 440 you're lncrldlblel Have a grMI clay, I'm looking forwwd to mora fun buddy. Love, Barb. PS I lhlnk you're -'8-kinda cutel  
PLEASE CAll 283-25971F HAVE INFO. FOR RENT Seml-furnllhed houM good neighbor­hood after 4-25!">-3884/2n-3804. 2-bdrm. apt c.ll272-4613.  Ferdinand, Sony. Hurry to mel Callben Ia herel Miranda Hungry? c.11 YELLOW SUBMARINE at 1272-HIKE. Delivery Houra: 5prn-12am Monday-Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3prn-1am Saturday; 4prn-10prn Sunday. watch tor tllelrflh IUffer •lch for thelr11h eurfer watch for thelrfah aurfer ................................................................He __.,..,  IIAIIII!AII IT1LL DI!AD That'e right. Ra-··etil-·Dllplteother reporta to the contrary. CNIIIII! DUNI! HAPPY tilTHII HAVE A GREAT DAYII AND DRINK L08 OF MILKII LOVE. COL, HEIDI H.,AL, I BOO DESPERATELY SEEKING (H)ELLEN Happy Valentine'l Dayl Love. "CHIP"  Patty: Unfortunat"'y you have bean banned from the Burger Hal ol Fame due to your lack ol knowledge ol Army ROTC. Mk a ROTC burger tor help KAREN, THE MESSAGE IS SIMPLE: I LOVE YOU! TOM Yolll•yCz We ml• your amlla-apartda. lbqqz-.1!1111 T1la O'Hanl a.,.  OUR FRIENDSHIP HAS PROVIDED AG­·cEPTANCE AND UNDERSTANDING IN A WORLD THAT PUSHES PEOPLE APART. BUT I WILL ALWAYS REMAIN WITH THE MEMORIES OF THE TIMES WE HAVE SHARED KNOWING HOW FOFITUNATE I AM TO BE ABLE TO CALL YOU MY FRIENDS. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY II LOVE YOU GUYBI WHITT AER081C QUEEN: I HAVE ALWAYS WANTED TO HAVE A NEIGHBOR JUST  came Deane Y• came Deane Ia a Valentinea Day baby H-wy ttltll Love FLFF Dunhll Lll'o 110 "dancing" Cal me Kate G. To al ol my favorite Domer ''froga"-Jodie. Aida, Tom. Dooge, Jimrnla. Mitch, Paula & Katy-you're the belli Happy Valentine'• Oayl Love, Mel ................................................................ HAPPY VALENTINES DAY GIRLS OF  
To al the men -love And al the men  UKE YOUI HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYI  4th FLOOR AUGUSTA  
WANTED OVI!IIIEAI JOet..lumnw, ,..round. l!urope, 1-"-., Auelnlla, Mill. AI llelda. 1100-2000 1110. ...,....,.. F,.. Info. Write IJC, PO Ill II2-IN-4, c-del .... CA 121211.  A rich alumnue needa 2 tickell (atudenl or GA) tor the Dayton game in ~. He'1 an engineer willing to pay big buoklto­ue pound lhe Flyeralnlo the oourtl Cell Mary Ellen at 283-3855 or leave a meaaaga at23~5303. I NEED YOU-MATT  who love ue The men ­love Aren't the 111111 who love ue Bo to hal w4tll men­hare·• to ual OFFICIAL TOAST OF THE NOTRE DAMSELS COMING SOON ... SOONER THAN YOU THINK... THE BAGA ... THE WAR "NO FUN" a man who Ia torn between two lovera and IILL lant aven here yat  Hey, llaph, I "'""• lallllroulh on my promleM. Happy Vllllnllne'e 0.,. I .,JoY" our chill ao -11attw do It ...."-· PHILIPPE: HAPPY VALENTINE'S OAYI ILOVEYOUI FOREVER,GWENDOL YNNE  LOVE, WHITT Yo Anth. The picture ol "Bud" ­grlllll He'a SO hO!II You'ia not too bad yourMI!fl GOOD LUCK In Cleveland and HAPPY VALENTINES DAYI PS You're IJII!Ing popular In the obearvar'a pageell Lucky you have trlendl on Mleryllll (ha ha), Love, Comet (aka Space)  ACW "Remember • a prorniMihll wil niOVer be broken... the paat cannot be er-.c1 and there w41 be a part ol me that wfllove you torevll'." Muahy huh? Happy Valentine'• Oeycude. PMB  
Anyone lnferllled In going to Purdue Uni­vnty, Will Latayene who would Nke to  Of FOREVER,FOREVER,FOREVER  HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY fo the mem­bon ol the "Have Been Blown-Off Club."  Fill (The Suckroo) Hullbeen over e y..,  Everywh.. I look, til.. II bllu but I llione am Irrevocably lllcluded­Frank-teln'e moneter.  Brian of 111 Keenan, HAPPY VALENTINE'I Day II Your SecretS-­heart  
r1de along (at aboul60 mph), 11 be going  TONIGHT -THE CAMPUS DANCE MS  You al deeerve bener than the excu­ Since that blaque ..-ua a "group"?  
)uel about every weekend but tllle one. Give me a calif you'd Nke to be pen ollhfe total new eJOparlence. Gertie: SMC 44211 (I wil try to be more grammatically OOITICIIn the car.)  Valentine'• Dey Dance 8:30-1:Oil AM at Stepan Center S3 Admlalion at the door Win Trfpa, Dinnera, & Othera BRING YOUR VALENTINE or MEET ONE THERE I  you'veh-d. Coml"' loon: ... DAVI! fL.ANAQAN WI!I!KEND  Well, I wanted you to h­tllat to antica I wouldn'tlltoop. For balloonl. I'm jult n01 ,_; when they get there they would ctoop. (And belldee. Reo lan't h .. and who ,..would drop thelooll?) Although poorly mymed I ,_  MEAl Oh m'god, I ­you all the time. I am )ull dying tor the clay you talk to me without the beer gogglel onll 1 -jlat wondering Wyou would be mlne ... HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAYIII Your laat ecope..BOOTMAN  PAUL, YOU'VE WARMED UP MY WINTER. I LOVE YOU. MRS. ROSCO. TOM ESPOSITO: I'VE GOT A· SECRET FOR YOUI LOVE, YOUR SECRET SWEETHEART  
Come welch him get uglylll  Nonetll"'-. tllla ad'a a hoof  PA, H-wy L.U.F. day! Wink  HAPPY VAL DAY  
FOR SALE  FOOLS IN LOVE THEY THINK THEY'RE HEROES 'CAUSE THEY GET TO FEEL  Chalk It up to Cupid, dear I'm 10 glad that he did lhooll from Nanceronl TSFT  To my boytrland'e roommate and my roommate'l boytrland and my boytrland'e  ANDREA, AMY, CAROL, MARIA, AND MAUREEN -THE CHICKS OF KAPPA KAPPA VIEW  
......................................................  ....~ ..........................................................  MORE PAIN I BAY FOOLS IN LOVE ARE  roommate'• girltrfend and my roommate,  LOVE R08. GEORGE, GREG. ED  
5 BDRM HouM. Fully turnllhed. AI ap­ Leny my darffng, You are the only eporta  ZEROS-JOE JACKSON  Hope you guye have • grMI Valentine'•  
pfl-& furniture Included. GrMt ln­vlllment. Nice ~. 4 mil•  edllor for melllll I need your awaet love. Hurry, before we eltllar .,.,:luate or get  AC(CHIIII)YEHCHKD  TOM IKHOUVANJE  Oeyl PJ  
from NO. $22,000. c.ll evenlnge 286­31ot.  roo buay to conaummate our blollornlng puelonll Love, Anonymoua  YOU ARE MY FOREVER VALENTINE I LOVEYOU-M  Jell P .S, Keep the -endol the 22nd openl  CAIILII Happy Vllllntlne'a 0.,11 You'd llattw....-.tic... love, mufll..pa  see ADS, page 10  
...  

Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 10
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
The ND fencing team will travel to Cleveland, Ohio, tomorrow to take place in a five-team meet. Besides Notre Dame, other teams competing will be Carnegie-Mellon, California o( Pennsylvania, Oberlin College, and Cleveland State. -The Obseroer 
The ND men's and women's swim­
ming squads will travel to Northern lllinois University tomorTow for a meet with the Huskies. -Tbe Obseroer 
The ND track team will travel to Madison, Wi., tonight for the Central Collegiate Conference indoor meet. The meet also has events scheduled to take place tomorrow. -The Obser­
ver 

The ND men's volleyball team will be in ac­
tion twice this weekend. Tonight the Irish host Purdue at 7:30, and tomorrow they meet Wisconsin at 1 p.m. All the action will take place in the ACC Pit. -The Obseroer 
NVA Interhall tournaments will be held in 
team relay swimming, wrestling, and field hockey. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. All players must reside in the same hall. For information on entry fees and dates call NVAat 239-6100. -The Obseroer 
ND Rugby Club workouts for anyone interested in playing Spring rugby will begin Monday at 4 p.m. on the secondfloor by The Monogram Room of the ACC. No experience is nece:>sary, but all attending should be dressed to run. For more information call Phil Sheridan at 288-4761.-The Obseroer 
A team water volleyball tournament 
will be held by the NVA. The double-elimination tourney will be open to anyone on campus, but rosters must include at least eight
1 
names. Interested teams should register at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call NVA. -The Obseroer 
An open singles racquetball tourn~y 
will be held by the NVA. Separate elimination tournaments will be held for intermediate and advanced players, but entry is limited to the first 64 people that apply. Interested players should register at the NVA office in the ACC by Wednesday. For more information call NVA. -The Obseroer 
An NVA scuba diving course will be offered 
beginning tomorrow from 4 -· 7 p.m.. Interested persons should bring $75 to the NVA office in the ACC before Friday ar5 p.m. For more information ~all NVA at 239-5100.-The Obseroer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday. For more information call NVA.-The Obseroer 
ability to go eight players deep and Arena in East Rutherford, N.J., the maintain their consistency. That's Irish started out ice-cold from the
Duke 
why they've been such a good bal­field and quickly fell behind, 10-0. They could never quite come back,
continuedfrompage 16 lclub." 
As for the Irish, some questions and ended up on the short end ofan down 4.9 rebounds and dishing out still remain as to the health of the 81-69 score -Notre Dame's seventh 55 assists. squad heading into the bigweekend. loss in eight games with Duke. 
"I think the guy that makes things Freshman guard Mark Stevenson "We got off to a real negative last happen more than anybody for Duke remained in the infirmary yesterday year," says Phelps. "We really is Henderson," says Phelps. "He's the with the tl.u, while forward Donald respect what Duke can do to you guy who's as close tb Michael]ordan Royal sat out practice with a hip defensively. We're improved this 
as anyone I've seen in the past bruise suffered in Tuesday's game year, but they're improved also. So I couple ofyears. against Fordham. Both will continue don't think we can afford to start off 
"When he's on he's really creative. to be evaluated on a day-to-day basis, poorly as we did last year at the He rebounds well, plays solid but both are expected to be able to Meadowlands. defense, and can score off his jump play against the Blue Devils. "Based upon the personel, I think shot or his penetration. He's the key it will be an interesting matchup. I 
player in giving them an explosive "We're hurting a little," says thought we got something out ofthe North Carolina game, and we ob­
team." Phelps, "but we're playing very well viously got a lot out of playing at
Sophomores Billy King and Kevin and we're really excited abouut Strickland also lend special talents to going down to play Duke at this time Syracuse. I'm sure we'll be able to take home something from this one,
the Blue Devils. of the year. Playing North Carolina, 
"With Strickland coming off the Syracuse and Duke away from home also." bench to put points on the board," can only help us in March." With a few breaks here and there, says Phelps, "and King blending into In last year's game against the Blue the Irish might just be able to take their frontline, it gives them the Devils, played at Brendan Byrne home another upset. 
vesting funds once they have been "Eventually they would like to use
Boosters 
received. The new program was income alone for spending purposes named the Department of Athletics, and maintain the investments. So far
continuedfrompage 16 
Physical Education and Recreation -it has been very successful. During at that point, wiping out the pos­orDAPER. the next fiscal year DAPER will most sibility ofunder-the-table gifts to ex­likely re'ly solely on income for ath­ceptional athletes. A select group of contributors letic spending." 
"In addition," Brewer continues, donates money to the program, and Stanford's other boosters involve "our football and basketball coaches this money goes to a 16-member no risk at all. According to Uird, you keep alumni out of recruiting. They board consisting of investment ad­won't hear of any scandals at Stan­like to keep the recruiting process visors, entrepreneurs, venture ford. within their bounds." capit'alists and attorneys. This panel "Our boosters, the Buck Club for 
Another university with the right invests the money in projects they men's scholarships and the Cardinal idea concerning boosters is Stan­feel will be successful, in the hope of Club for women ·are controlled ford. Not only does Stanford keep an gaining a high return. strictly by the University," he says. eye on booster activities, but it has "We started the DAPER fund two­"That's how we avoid scandals. The added a new twist to increase the and-a-halfyears ago," says Jack Laird, University has its finger on the pulse, amount of funding even after the president of another Stanford so to speak." donations are in. booster group, the Buck Club. "The In any case, the point is clear. 
minimum contribution is S25,000 Boosters can be successful if The idea was conceived by Frank and what it is essentially is an ag­properly regulated. 
J. Lodato, a former head of the gressive investment program. Rat­-However, at the same time, school's athletic board. He proposed her , than receiving endowment boosters can continue to taint the a-system similar to the one used by intetest, the investments might image ofcollege sports if allowed to Stanford's Business School for in-return 20 percent. act freely in the recruiting process. 
appearances it makes on national just don't hear people talking about television, may suffer somewhat the set-up the same way they talk from an exposure problem. "It's about a conference like the Big East. 

Polls 
continuedfrom page 16 
hard being an independent in the never ceased to amaie me. It's vir­Midwest with the press in the East," Should Notre Dame join a con­tually impossible to 'predict anyth­said the Fordham coach. "The Big ference then, as many have sug­ing in sport with a degree of East has such a lock on things with gested? The answer is certainty. all the press. I don't see how (Notre unequivocably, "No." joining a con­
At any rate, Fordham coach Tom Dame)is not a top 1 0 team." ference would force Notre Dame to Penders may have hit the nail on the Ditto here. give up too many benefits of being head the other night after his Rams The Irish went to a round-robin an independent in exchange for a dropped a game to the Irish. series with the other major Midwest few minor things like recognition. Penders, whose team also has faced independents last year in an effort to After all, the Irish always will have an North Carolina and St. "John's this fight their recognition problem. Un­opportunity to prove themselves season, suggested that the Irish were fortunately for Notre Dame, it has when and where it really counts, and "just a beat behind North Carolina not drummed up quite the national that's the NCAA Tournament in and every bit as good as St.John's." recognition the four schools had March. 
But Penders went on to say that hoped for. Attendance at most ofthe For now the injustice ofstill being Notre Dame, despite the number of round-robin games is up, but you No. 14 will just have to be tolerated. 
TO MY LITTLE BOY: I Love YOUIII WiN SWANSON, YOU SEXY THING YOU, To Kat the Paiatey Byte Queen, HAVE A HAPPY VALENTINES DAY. GRAM PORK CHOP. HAPPY VALENTINE'S You MMy Me??. Pleue Be Mine DON'T YOU KNOW I THINK YOU'RE HAPPY V.D !!!!! Love, Chucl< & Phil DAY WITH ALL MY LOVE. I CAN'T WAIT Forever?! Je l"aime toujoural Love, Your GREAT? (REALLY) LOVE, J.T. TO FONDUE U TONIGHT. (I"M TALKING 
Ads 

Little Girt HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, ANN ABOUT THE RESTAURANn. I LOVE
································································ 
DEBBIE-HERE'S HOPING WARD'S 1 Totaly Hi to Mikie, Ernie, Coach and Baby YOU MADLY AND ALWAYS, COM­continuedfrom page 9 WARRIOR HAS A HAPPY BIRTHDAY!! E., Hay cutie, wiM you be my Valentine? PUTERNERD 
WENDY CALLAHAN 

LOVE MAMA D AND DAD Maybe even my dale lor the formal HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, JIM ................................................................ 
Happy Velentine"e Day 

tonight? Gel ready lor lolda of tun this SMC STUDENTS I love you very much. 
TO THE EX-NEIGHBORS IN APART­

evening and eome champagne thia alter­CHECK THE HAGGAR BULLETIN OPIE
MENT 108 -SUE. BARB. LINDA, AND noon. leave your b'ball In 221 becauae HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY. BETSY BOARD FOR VALENTINE FROM KEVIN MARYS 

BABBLING BROOKS: Sat in any good today your favorite blonde is your HURLEY linka lately? So what •e YOU doing this Valentine-not your acorekaaper, oil?DAY Irish A peraonal today -ME FOREVER weel<end? You know who to cal il you Thanx-you're my champion! Thanx aiiO !Iomeii-you t.ve a lolle aey Mid 
HAVE A HAPPY HAPPY VALENTINES" 
ITS JUST NOT THE SAMEIII LOVES AND KISSES 

Love alwaye, Fancy want to take you lila in your handl. (I lorbeing the moet aweeome Dateboy any other II-you...,....allllleeely In an MIKE, WORDS CAN NEVER IMPART should be writing a poem to you lor thia Datagirt could uk lor-you've made thi1 THE FEELINGS IN MY HEART. JUSTROB. GEOAOE. GREG. ED 
DEAREST HOOP: For al the wonderful llltamPI to ... -point --· timee we've had together, Hera'l to many anything, even though I thought lbout it Valentinee Day! AH my love, Erin 1111,. thl... Mid If ..10M ...It wll more In the future, AImy lova T. 8. for houra, probably u long • ~ took you nolbe the only -In thle .__,... IT'S NOT EASY FOR ME TO LET THIS 
crazy Holiday, but I can't -mto make up the ball ol all poaaibla watde!! Happy Tille ..,.,_.. to lie on til ..,_ f'llln-LOOK FOR THE SMILE. LOVE, TB 
HAVE A HAPPY AND GROOOOOVEY to pick out my card.) Let"I give thla alhot: Paul-HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY!! Your today, llut ,_.,......_ I -ntto wlall DAY GO BY WITHOUT SAYING" "HI""VALENTINES' DAY TO OUR BELOVED ,.London Clull 

R0181 arered, (although I !Ike them In yel­favorite Albany girt you a happy Yalentlna'a Dey,..._..., P.S. HOW'S THE WEATHER?
SAINT MARY'S CONNECTION ­

We are a bummed out, lonely, paatey lot. low better) Vloleta •e blue (purple ac­.... It Ia Valentina'& Dey and I _,leiLANDRY. NATALIE, CASSIE, MIC-We mla the people that made u1 form tuaNy) I wonder what a ROTC can do? Mary and Ginny have fait pretty etupld MY~• It on HELLE 
thll dub, dammit!. (from Pln.burgh, yet) So I can't write good Here'a to a happy Valentina's Day with Ground Hoe Dey. TO MY FAVORITE JUNIORAND DRINK­MAYBE WE'U FINALLY GET OVER 
Art·Trade Non-a.-poetry, but at leNt my cough 11 gone. goolriandllll ING BUDDY, WE'RE GONNA BE WHis­
THERE TO DO UP SOME MASS 

The-Saint-Mary"a-Woman-who-Hk..hot­Love, the Farley quad If you think the fact that he il running ie TliNG ZIPPITY 000 DA UP OUR LOVES AND SMOOCHES FROM 
chocolate-and-old-German-lllckl (not to bad, you should 188 hie running mate. KAZOOS ANYHOW LOVE VA, ME THOSE NUTTY-COOKOO GUYS WHO 
P.C Stop Ignoring me and I wiH llop ignor­mention you.) I can't believe I jull wrote SHALL REMAIN NAMELESS 
Ing you! Thoee flm lew daye -e fun that. 0..Collen, ""It Took Me A Y-..."" luMn, EVE ROB THE GLOB, GEOAOE THE 
let's have a a lot moral T.B. "... To Meet You But It Only Took Me A 1o It Ia Valentina' a Dey.l hope you wll IT'S NOT 10 MILLION UPS PACKAGES, GOAOE, GREG THE EGG, EO THE 
To the English and Hillary departments: Second To Know Wllal I Had Met." lie my Valentina -If I Ml -"M OR A LIFE SIZE HERSEY'S KISS BUT SLED Chere Lucy, Mon coeur, tu lui manqee Happy Valantina'a day! I can't think of Have A H8PPY Valentlna'a Dey, Love, up. I mi.. you and hope you have a THANKS FOR BEING SO MUCH FUN,
P.S. IT'S ONLY PHYSICAL 

beaucoup. Jal"aime toujoura, Rick. anything ella to eay except that I enjoy Pete lovely day. SO MUCH OF A FRIEND. HAPPY (believe it or not) working lor you. A batter, Jh VALENTINE'S DAY! LOVE, E 
Happy Valentine'• Day, Tina & Sue!! How more fun pack ol people hu never MATI-HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY TO A lbout vllltlng your Rttla brol. eometima? exllled (not hera, at !eut.) Gertie shalom julae, 10i wu really lllpped out ya GREAT DRIVER AND MOVIE­Love and total adoration (of courael), Rob know She aka rna if lm angry or eometh­H8PPY Valentina'a Dey ITS A FUNNY THING ABOUT WATCHER! LOVE-ALl &Chria. MLAW, Thiele aent to you only a a (poor) ing I aaid o1 counee im angry man th;.l.m ROOMMATES, THEY KNOW YOU SO 
eubatitute hug, oh subject ol many a high IChool thla 11 valentl.-clay So WELL. HAPPY V-DAY CILLY. LOVE To a very......_.,,........-. and­thought! Really would love to aee your have a metaphyeically happy day Nobody In an attempt to remain anonymous, 10 u YOUR FAVORITE ROOMMATE 
MEH HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY LOVE, 

derful girlfriend. Pat: lmlle. A Happy Valentine"• Day to you, expecta the apanish inqullition or a neg­to avoid soma ol the beraternent I have CMG 
Happy Honl Volra Amour, YLKM(WMY) bo. FeelingCavaller-Beaker. . come to expect, I typed my lignature, you 143 Valentine'• aee?? 
Napoleon, Happy Valentine'• Day!! Love, 

Oay Dooareet Jeannine, I'm eorry we couldn't ~. Wu puaing by and thought I'd' Happy Valenti nee Day 
the woman In red 

&remember: be together thia Valentine"• Day. 18) "HI!"" Have a great Valentine"a Day. TO MY DEAR FRIEND IN FRANCE: 1-4-31 However, our Hearta wiN FOREVER beat We all love ya! Jamie and aN the guye! ELIZABETH MEEGAN-HAVE A HAPPY 
TEMER 

-me u one! Love Alwaye, Ken JEANNE, AMY, ANNE, HAPPY VALENTINE'S, DAY! PARIS WILL 
HAPPY YALENTINE'I DAY 

'IGUNEII WILL IIUN IIAIIPANT IN VALENTINE'S DAY 1986! LOVE, KELLY NEVER BE THE SAME. THANKS FOR WE LOVE YOU, I 
PLEASE IGNORE THE FOLLOW­To my Champion: Happy V.DII (Thanka to YOUIIUFE BEING MY PERSONAL TRANSLATOR
WHALE AND CO. 

ING:"Becauae a genuine and complete freedom.) I like our leap, and hope thia TIM, That's the LAST time! ever call over (BIERE). MISS YOU! LOVE, MJ 
expr.aion of love through -raquiree a lide provae lea hily. I believe it i1 be­there. -A divorcee. NEVUS wa·ve bean together now tor 2 commitment to a total living and sharing caul& ol the diacarded alllng and the HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY MOM Happy Valentine'• Oay Torn Thumb! The v--plua, And I know I haven't eald thia together of two paraona in m.rtage , growing understanding ol today'l ""There·a a ribbon in thalky lor our love." Non-J-Walker. often enough, The timae we·va shared aexual union should occur only In mar­calabration ... LOVE. Uae your eyelraaly, ·, HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, PATRICK. ................................................................
································································ 
and epent together, I couldn't have apent riage." What do ya' eay, Lynaey. I LOVE cyclopia, you'll-· Grouchoagain? P.S. HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY, DAD TO CASEY NEWELL: I LOVE YOU! ttl-. 2 , ...any l!ftter. Love, HANG YOU DAVID Ball c:A luck on Sunil! HAPPY 20th CASEY GILDEA! LOVE ALWAYS, CASEY NEWELL 
------~--------­
The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 11 
Captain of track team 
McNelis provides strong leadership 
finishing the workouts.. Until I tal preparation is as important as the
ByJOHN COYLE 
learned to budget my time between physical.
Sports Writer 
school and track so I could con-"I like to take the lead at the gun," he says. "I run the race in my head
Whoosh! That's what it sounds several times. I like to imagine all thelike when John McNelis runs by. 

possibilities so I won't be surprised
Whoosh! Whoosh!, as the talented by anything in the actual race." senior runs by again on the far turn. Watching McNelis prepare for the 
The experienced veteran has his
Central Collegiate Conference goals set for his last season. A mem­Championships, which will be held ber of the extremely impressivethis weekend, it is obvious that he is Irish two-mile relay team, he hopesnot the type one wants to race to the to qualify for the NCAA's and thenkitchen for that last piece ofcake. 
make All-American. On an individual level, he is looking to do well in BOO­The captain of the Notre Dame meter run this spring.
track team, McNelis is one ofthe top performers of a very talented Irish 
McNelis' eyes will be set on a squad. According to Head Coach, 
more immediate goal this weekend, Joe Piane, McNelis lends leadership John McNelis however. He is determined to win in both word and deed. cetrate more on the workouts, I the 880-yard dash, the outdoor wasn't going to do well." equivalent of which he won in the 
"He is a positive influence on the spring version ofthis meet last year. whole team," Piane says. "He is a fine Piane believes that the senior's example of a good trainer. John greatest improvement has been in "This is a really good meet," he 
really works hard. He knows you the strength department. A rigorous says. "I'm hoping to win because I'm have to work during the week if you series of interval workouts with the defender ofthe title in way. I just are going to do well on the many repetitions and little rest in have to go out on Friday night and weekend." between helped to improve qualify and then prepare for the 
McNelis' performances. finals on Saturday." 
In his first two years of college, Jim Tyler in the mile run and McNelis did not find victory nearly "You need to be strong to run Brandy Wells in the 60-and the 300­as easy as he did in high school, consistent splits," Plane explains. "If yard dashes will be two more of the where he dominated his competi­your times are not even, you will not many Irish runners whom Plane ex­
tion. A combination of longer dis­do your best. You can't put seco-nds pects to finish well. Notre Dame will tances to run and more books to in the bank, it won't work." be meeting several schools from the study, according to McNelis, stood Big Ten and the Mid-American Con­In his way to success. The agressive captain is not afraid ference along with many of the top 
"In high school, I didn't work hard to take the lead, even though most independents when they travel to because It was easy to do well," he runners prefer to be second at the Madison, Wis., for what they hope says. "Here, I had trouble even start. McNelis also believes his men-will be a successful trip. 
(*** * * * * * * * * * * * ***1
i DISUNGUISHED STUDENT i 
: AWARD * 
i Th• Notr• Dam• Alumni Association will ••aeeqtln• n..l..tl...i : from P••ruaf7 J4•a8 for th•Sth annual DlstlnplshMStu...t ~ : Awar411. Th• Dlstln.ulsh••Stu••ntA war• was erMt.411 te hener•• : outsta•••••••nlorstu••ntat th• Unlu•rslt~ •a••• on th•followl•• : erlt.rla: ~ 
-.r 1) Service to Notre Dame, : 2) Service to the Community, and, 
3) Good Academic Standing. 
Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on the second floor of the Administration Building, The Centerfor Social Concerns, and at Campus Ministry Office in the 
: Memorial Library Jt : Nominations must be submitted to the Association by I'••·28, •986. i 
*********************************************-*******' 

Saturday, Feb. 15 9:30-1:30 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 

1k~/Choltaaya I'Ucbol 
Ken Barlow and Scott Hicks (I0) look to defend as Butler's Dar­rin Fitzgerald drives for the hoop in earlier season action at the ACC. Digger Phelps' Irish will face a big challenge when they take on No. 2 Duke Sunday afternoon in Durham. Details are on pagt 
/~. 
ND/SMC Theater announces ... Orchestra Auditions for West-Side Story 
Monday, Feb. 17and Tue•dtJy, Feb.J8 7-9pr~~ Roor11 308Moreau Hall, SMC 
Needed: Brass, Winds, and Strings Bring a prepared piece You will be asked to sigh tread something from the shoUI 
Notre Da01e Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FORFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 810 ND Ave 134-6647/256-5716 CaiiAnydme 
NIG TCLUB 

Come to Tivoli's 
South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 7 nights a week DRINKING and DANCING 9:00 pm -3:00 am 
Located on U.S. 33 IV. at North VIllage Mall 
277-1'0tn 
~~000000000~0000000000~ 

The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 12 
Makes impact on wrestling team 

Colts close to signing Kiel 



Geneser's hard work has paid off 
Associated Press 

ByRICK RIETBROCK "When I came here, I had to learn most of the attention with his out­INDIANAPOUS -The signing of former Notre Dame quarterbackSports Writer the basics all over again, especially standing season, Geneser has quietly Blair K.iel as a free agent "looks imminent," a spokesman for the In­improving my stance," he says. "In put together a solid season as well. 
dianapolis Colts said yesterday. 

For most people, having older high school, I could get away with Geneser says he doesn't mind being K.iel had agreed to contract terms with the National Footballbrothers use them as a punching bag some things because the competi­overlooked occasionally. 
League team and was expected to sign later yesterday, said assistant wouldn't be something they'd tion isn't as good. The college "Actually, it helps to take some of general manager Bob Terpening. He would join veteran quarter·

remember fondly. But Notre Dame's 
the pressure of me," he says. backs Mike Pagel and Matt Kotler with the Colts.
Chris Geneser remembers it as the "There's no competition between 
K.iel, 24, was an 11th-round draft pick by Tampa Bay in 1984. He reason he got started in wrestling. us. We're good friends and both ofus had been a backup to Tampa quarterback Steve DeBerg but wa5"It started in about second grade," are excited to be a part of a pretty sidelined early last season with colitis. By the time he recovered, theGeneser recalls. "After school, my good class." 

Buccaneers had signed Steve Young from the United States Football brothers, who were involved in As for the future, Geneser has high League.

wrestling, would come home and hopes for the remainder of this "I figured there was no way I'd ever get a chance," said K.iel, who pretty much beat on me since I.was season, as well as beyond for the was granted his request to be released.
the youngest." Irish. 
"I've always had a dream to play pro football in my home state,"That type of experience, in a way, "We're really excited about (the said K.iel, who led Columbus East to the 1979 Indiana high schoolenabled Geneser to go on to an out­NCAA Western Regionals),"he adds. 

Class 3A playoff championship. 

standing high school career that was "Coach McCann says we can place in rewarded with All-America honors the top three and I think that's a from Amateur Wrestling News. pretty good goal to shoot for." 
~---~------------------------~ 
His career record at Dowling High 

Geneser hopes to finish the year
School was 112-15, including a 32-1 Chris Geneser 
by earning a trip to the National
senior campaign when he captained wrestlers are much more ex­
Tournament. Whether he succeeds
an undefeated squad. Geneser perienced." 
or not, his brothers hopefully have
credits much of his success in high That experience factor has been a 
found someone else to pick on
school to his coach, who taught him part of the reason Geneser's good nowadays.
things that his brothers didn't in­record is not even better, according This weekend, Geneser and the 
_,________clude in their afterschool sessions. to Irish head coach Fran McCann. 
52929u.s.3& rtorth

Irish will travel to Bloomington on
"Coach (Bob) Darrah really "His main asset is his aggressive­
Saturday to face Indiana, which
stressed the basics," the freshman ness, but that has often been his should be a tough match, according With this coupon receive a says. "He was a really hard worker downfall as well," the coach points to McCann.
who instilled discipline. He believed out. "When he gets a little more ex­
Large PizzaforMedium Pizza Price

hard work would get you where you perienced, more mature, he will be "It will be a close match," he says. want togo." able to refine that aggressiveness. "Even though they have more ex­Medium PizzaforSmall Pizza Price 
Right now, Geneser's hard work "It's an asset that you can't teach, perience than us, I expect it to go has paid some pretty handsome and we don't want to change it, but right down the wire." dividends. He currently holds a 22-he has got to be more under con­On Saturday, the Irish return 
(Delloery Orders Only)

13 record, but the 167-pound trol." home to play host to Marquette at Woodward, Iowa native says that, Geneser is part of an outstanding the ACC pit. McCann says the Irish despite his impressive record, the recruiting class that has helped the "should do very well" against the adjustment to college wrestling is Irish improve this season. While Warriors. The match will begin at 2 AfterSpm on Frl.-Sat. Only not an easy one. classmate Jerry Durso has grabbed p.m. 
rtelp Prevent Birth Defecta 
(Limited Delloery Area)

The Observer Is always lqqklng tqr talent.
Support the ' 
Offer expires Feb. 22 

If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces 
277-5880

<!p~!S0~9.tQJ[l.!§ 
and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
L----------------------------~ 


-~.----~---~--...... ---~ ~----~--­
~------------­

The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 13 

-


The Obocrvcr/Paull'lhonkcy 
Sophomore Mike McNeill, here skating in on net Kent St. The Irish hockey team will be without the 
against Lake Forest, is one ofthe players that will services of four injured players. Greg Stohr 
hat'e to pick up the slack in this weekend's series at previews the series at right. 
Thomas Edison, do Vinci, Michelangelo, and Henry Ford all could have worked for Wallace. 

Innovators. Problem solvers. Creative thinkers. Independent, self-motivated achievers who per­severed until ultimate triumph. These are the qualities that made them successful. They can do the same for you at Wallace. 


SALES REPRESENTATIVES 
Entry Level 

If you have the above qualities, then we're interested in talking to you about a career with Wallace. 
We will be on campus holding an Open House on Tuesday, February 25, to discuss Sales/ MartceHng careers with Wallace. All students are Invited to attend. We will be meeting at Clayton Hall starting at 7PM. Refreshments will be served. If unable to attend, please send your resume or call Mr. Harry Dochelll at 215/825-8430. 

2350 E. Devon Avenue Suite 217 Des Plaines, IL 60018 
Equal Opportunity Employer 



Four players sidelined as Irish face Kent St. 
By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
It is a good thing that injuries to his players don't bother Notre Dame head hockey coach Lefty Smith. If they did the 17-year Irish mentor might have despaired in seeing four of his top players succumb to in· juries prior to his squad's two-game series at Kent State this weekend. The teams will skate Friday and Saturday night. Both games will begin at 7:30. 
The 8-1 7·1 Irish will lack the services of wingers Brent Chapman, Jeff Badalich, and john Nlckodemus and defenseman Frank O'Brien when they challenge the 18·8·2 Gol· den Flashes. 
Chapman and Badalich, both first· liners, each suffered a shoulder separation In games last weekend against Army. Then, during practice this week, Nlckodemus fell to a shoulder injury and O'Brien suffered a knee injury. Several players have also been ailing with the flu. 
"You can't moan and groan about it," says Smith. "It would be very easy for the team to become very negative. But I'm hopeful that we'll react in a good, positive manner." 
Notre Dame certainly Is capable of rebounding against Kent State. The Irish already have defeated the Flashes twice this season, 4-3 and 8· 5 in November. Smith, though, can­not be overconfident. 
"We met Kent State earlier this year and had good results," he says. "However, there are certain factors that will certainly even things up this time." 
In fact, Smith sees the series as a good opportunity to provide valuable playing time for his under­classmen. Notre Dame has 19 fresh· men and sophomores on Its roster, and Smith knows they need game experience to develop Into sound, consistent hockey players. 
"Freshmen and sophomores make freshman and sophomore mistakes," he says. "You have to give them time to mature." 
The absences of seasoned fourth· year men Chapman and Badalich especially will add to Notre Dame's lack of experience on the ice this weekend. 
"The loss of those two players should have an effect on the series," says Smith. "But injuries are nothing new to us. We have had to face them all year long." 
. ~AMERICAN 
How you 11ve f CANCER 

may save your life. , SOCIETY~ 
SOPHOMORES 
JUNIORS 


&SENIORS 
SPEND AN AFTERNOON IN YOUR 


If you're selected for a Physician's Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserves. 
While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. 
As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. 
But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation. 
r =~~=-;.;;.:~;....~,
Mail this coupon to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865 
L 

I  Huntington Station, NY 11746·2102 Check up to three: 0 ARMY 0 NAVY 0 AIR FORCE  9008  1 
PIMM pnnt au lnfot'matlon dHrty and completely  
I  _,._-::"';,::":-------:M:::::w:::-~::::'"""'"''-----;-:Lo::;-~----'OMale OFemale Address Apt.#---;::::::;:::::;:::~:::;::::;  I  
I I  City State Zip[ [ [ [ [ [ Pllone OJ] ITJJ I I Soc. Ser. No. ITJJ OJ I I I I I I C~ ~t Y Q;J Y IAro• Code Number Graduation [I] [I]FleldoiStudy•---------------'Date Mo ,.,., The ntormatlon you voluntarily provtde wm be used for recruiting purposes onty. The more complete It is the better we .I 

can respond to your request. (Authority 10 USC 503) 
SPECIFIC CAREER INTEREST! 
CAREER ORIENTATION DAV 
TUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1986 In Indianapolis 
apply at the Alumni Assocation Office by Friday, February 14, 1986 $12.00 fee for transportation, lunch & dinner 
Limited •pace available 
•pon•ored by the Alurnnl A••oclation StudentAlurnnl Relation• Group (SARG) 
corner of 
1Q-9 DAILY 
Rd &St. Rd 2311·7 Sunday 2n-8338 
Developing and Printing 
110, 126, 135 & Disc 
12 Exp. 

$2.99 
This program 1s opllonol 
Mark 35 Custom Processing 12 Exp. 24 Exp. *6.99 
$3,59 36 Exp. *9.99 
THIS OFFER AVAilABlE FEB. 10 THRU FEB. 16 


The Observer Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 14 

~ Obeerver /Hannes Hacker 
Freshman center Heidi Bunek, here launching a baseline jumper against Detroit, has made her impact felt for the Notre Dame women's basketball team this season, after overcoming some ad­versity. Mike Szymanski bas a feature on Bunek at left. 

BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

and family., 

'with collegiate competition at the rival Detroit. 

.. 









~4[Jtc:l.at~----------------------------------------F•r-id·a-y,_F_e_br_u_ary._.l4•,•1•9•86~-p~a~g-e--15
Bloom County 
Zeto 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Composer Bartok 5 Wood-shaping tool 9 Task 
14-an egg (flops) 15 Ending for 
pluto 16 Diamond's Hank 17 Foot part 18 "­19 Percussion 
Inst. 20 Avoid 23 Man of­
(farmer) 24 Obliterated 28 Beginning 
to develop 31 Literary 
collection 32 Yearned 36 Era 37 River of Asia 38 Brag 42 Princess of 
myth 43 Plndarlc 44 Desert spots 45 Owing 46 Kind of crab 49 Swirls 51 Weave together 56 Speed 59 See 38A 82 "The King -" 63 Held on to 64 Follow 65 Roman road 66 To-(pre· 
clsely) 67 Candle 68 Knowledge 
handed down 89 Back-talk 
DOWN 1 Goodtlme 2 Ground 3 School type 4 Hearth debris 5 Ornamental 
shrub 6 Practices 7 Novelist Grey 

ICJ1986 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. 2114/86All Rights Reserved 
Thursday's Solution 

~11113tA5T 
51A:K YtR GONNA 
£.VCR 6AT... ARt Yt.V l/5fENING f.! 
I 


~~ ~ 

Berke Breathed 



Kevin Walsh 
"listen. You want to be extinct? You want them to shoot and trap us Into oblivion? ... We're supposed to be the animals, so let's get 


Campus . 
FRIDAY,FEB.14 
•12:15 
P.M.· Peace Vigil, Closing Prayer, Fat· 

•l 
:45 P.M. -Lecture, "The Influence of the American on the Church," Father Gerald Fogarty, University ofVirginia, Center ofCon­tinuing Education 

•3:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "The Future Role ofthe Church in American Society," Father Richard McBrien and David O'Brien, Notre Dame and Holy Cross College, Center for Continuing Education 

•3:30 
P.M. Seminar, Dr. James Blechschmidt, University ofWisconsin, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by the Aero/Mchanical Engineering Dept. 

•6:30 
P.M. -Meeting, Ichthus Christian Fel­lowship Meeting, Library Lounge 

•7, 
9 & II :00 P.M. -Movie, "Bachelor Party," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, St.50 

•7:00 
P.M. -Talent Show, Black Cultural Arts Festival, Library Auditorium 

•7:30 
P.M. -Valentine's Dance, Logan Center, Sponsored by the Council for the Retarded 

•7:30 
& 9:34P.M.-Friday Night Fllm Series, "Stavinsky," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M. -Poetry Reading, Prof. Emeritus Ernest Sandeen and, Prof. John Matthias, Wil­son Commons, Sponsored by the Dept. of English 

•8:30 
P.M. -l A.M. Valentine's Dance, Stepan Center, MS fundraiser, S3.00 


her  Daniel  Jenky,  Sacred  Heart  Church,  
Sponsored by University Ministry  and  the  
Center for Social Concerns  

Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Fettucini Alfredo  Monte Cristo Sandwich  
Baked Haddock Sesame  Breaded Fish  
Garden Vegetable Quiche  Cheese & Mushroom Omelet  
Clam Strip Rolls  BeefPot Pie  

back out there and act like ltl" 
. 
SATlnUOAY,FEB.15 
•8:00 
A.M. -Law School Admission Test, Engineering Auditorium 

•9:00 
A.M.-Lecture, "The American Catholic Citizen," Christine E. Gudorf and A. Peter Walshe, Xavier University and Notre Dame, Center for Continuing Education 

•9:00 
-l P.M. -Seminar, Women and Men in Engineering, Society of Women Engineers, Center for Continuing Education 

•I0:45 
A.M. -Lecture, "The American Cat­holic Politician," john Gilligan, Notre Dame, Center for Continuing Education 

•l 
:00 P.M. -Saint Mary's Basketball, SMC vs. Bethel, Angela Athletic Facility 


SUNDAY, FEB. 16 
•1 
:00 P.M. -Opening Art Exhibition, "Mauricio Lasansky: A Retrospective Exhibi­tion," O'Shaughnessy West (until March 30} 

•2:00 
P.M. -Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Mar­quette,ACC 

•4:00 
P.M. -Plano Recital, Faculty Piano Recital, William Cerny, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Dept. of Music 

•5:45-8:30 
P.M. -Information table, Spring Break trips, Library Concourse, Sponsored by the SAB 

•6:00 
P.M. -Lecture and Movie, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by the India Associa­tion 

•6:30 
P.M. -General meeting, Center for So­cial Concerns, Sponsored by CILA 

•7:00 
P.M. -Catholic Faith Program, "What Catholics Should Know About the Church and Papacy," Father Tom O'Meara, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 



*************************
iC· The Student Activities Board presents..... • .t \oS\BACHELOR -.tc "o~e \))\tll ,t "'g"\"eg~\f pARTY  .lit* ~ * ~  
iC  Friday and Saturday  lt  
~  February14and15  $1.50  ~  
iC  Hall of Engineering  lt  

iC *****7:00, 9:00, and 11:00****** 
Bus transportation leaves the main circle at 6:30pm and runs approximately every 15 minutes until show time. Buses will return immediately aher the show. 
8 Miss Kett 9 Kick up one's 
heels 10 lsr. port 11 Globe 12 Flsheggs 13 Halves ofems 21 Musical work 22 Subscribe 
again 25 Gr. Island 26 Harden: var. 27 Fixes socks 29 Reconnoitered 30 Self 32 Stand fast 33 On-nine 34 -up (hlber· 
nated) 35 One of the fold 37 Cry of triumph 39 Racket 40 Baseball's 
Roush 41 Direction 46 Restrain 47 Banker often 

ARTE.BASES.CARSM E A N 0 V U l E A B I E A N T E M E R l E P 0 N D H E A R T B R E A K H 0 U S E  
1-VA~OTTER J A P A N B l A R E ANET.STOICS~ ,Y_ ~1-k. E N T I N E H E A R T S iWA-R 0 T 0 S C 0 T S A S T 0 R T R 0 T H PAS 0­ 
HEAR.OFOARiNESSE A S E M A 0 R I I l I A T R E E E l I T E S I l K A S S T R A T E l T A l E  

2114/86 

48 Whole 54 Neck parts 50 Point to be 55 Colo. park decided 57 Bucket 
52 Flightless 58 Aware of ralls 59 Wager 
53 "-Kick out 60 Stop -dime of You" 61 VIper 
-----------~----­
Friday, February 14, 1986 -page 16

S~orts 
ND will have its hands full with No. 2 Duke in Durham 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN ,has dished out 156 assists while chipping in AsststDnt Sports Editor 6.1 points per game. "To me, Dawkins and Amaker are probably 
DURHAM, N.C. . The Notre Dame basket­one ofthe best backcourts in the nation," says ball team faced a h'U'd test last weekend at Phelps. "Their speed, quickness and creativity Syracuse, and came out on top, 85-81. But the give Duk~ a double-barrel dimension. We 17-4 Irish may have an even bigger challenge ·have Rivers to do his thing, but both of them on their hands Sunday when they travel to can create. face a 23-2 Duke squad that is ranked second in the AP poll. Up front, the Blue Devils feature 6-8 seniors 
Mark Alarie andJay Bilas, as well as 6-10 fresh­
The Irish will face the Blue Devils at man Danny Ferry. Alarie, hot as of late, is Cameron Indoor Stadium in Durham, where scoring at a-17.6 ppg. clip while grabbing 6.1 Duke has won nearly 80 percent of its games rebounds ~r game. Ferry has also collected since it was built in 1939. The building has a 6.1 rebounds per contest while averaging 6.2 capacity ofohly 8,564, but they are known to points, and Bilas contributes with 7.1 points be an extremely vocal group. It's a terrific and 4.8 rebounds per game. place to play-but only ifyou're a Blue Devil. 
"Their frontcourt, with Bilas, Ferry and 
"I think comingoffthe win at Syracuse gives Alarie, gives them an explosive inside game," us some confidence to play on the road," says says Phelps. "And of course Alarie can go Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "But ob­outside and .shoot the ball. Ferry has played viously the crowd at Duke will be on top of v~ry. very well for them as a freshman." you, whereas at Syracuse the crowd was away from you." But perhaps the most special player on the 
However, the Blue Devils have a great deal squad is one· who is not as well known. David more going for them besides the home-court f{enderson, a 6-5 senior, fulfilled the sixth advantage. In the backcourt, they start 6-2 man position for the Blue Devils the past two senior all-American Johnny Dawkins and 6-0 seasons, but has blossomed into a productive 
The Obecl'vcr/File Pholo 
junior Tommy Amaker. starter for Head Coach Mike Krzyzewski. 
Senior guardjohnny Dawkins is just one in Durham, N.C. Eric Scheuermann previews
Dawkins is the Blue Devils' leading scorer, Henderson is averaging 13.6 points per 
ofthepotentoffensive weapons that the Irish the nationally-televised contest in his story
averaging 18.8 points per game and shooting game on 54.6 per<.:ent shooting, while pulling 
willface when they take on No. 2 Duke Sun­at left. 
54.4 percent from the field, while also collect­
see DUKE, page 10 day at1 p.m. at the Cameron IndoorStadium 
ing 83 assists. Amaker directs the offense, and 

Booster programs can, and do, work at colleges 
(Editor's note: Today The Obser­chfaters who are out to violate as way. I think the thing you can con­by getting to the problem before it tivity right off the bat. Any other ver concludes its two-partseries on many NCAA recruiting rules as pos­trol in all those situations is taking starts. Keeping independent fund­money necessary to operate the ath· boosters and college athletics. Part 
sible in order to attract top-notch away the eligibility of athletes in­raising activities under university letic department is generated athletes, many schools are learning volved. You take away the playing control is a solution working ef. through ticket sales, television con­
two focuses on some of ihe more 
how to control booster activities. time ofthe athletes involved in these fectively at the University of North tracts and what have you.
successful boosterprograms) 

These colleges have realized that infractions and you're taking away Carolina. "The people heading up the E.F. By MARlY STRASEN boosters are here to stay and have their exposure for a pro contract." The North Carolina athletic work for the University of North Sports Writer found ways to enhance their athletic department has one booster group, Carolina. They are on the Univer­programs with the funding the called the Educational Foundation, sity's staff and are always responsible Let's not jump to any hasty con­groups provide. 
which is kept under constant con­for reporting their activities to the
Boosters &
clusions about boosters and their in­Notre Dame's policy is to avoid in­trol by officials within the depart· athletic director. That's why we volvement in college athletics. After volvement by boosters in its athletic College ment. Rick Brewer, sports haven't had any problems here." all, people seldom hear about the department. But Irish head basket­information director at North :With such a system, outside
Athletics
positive aspects of an issue which is ball coach Digger Phelps realizes Carolina, says this control eliminates sources are able to contribute to the surrounded by so many scandals. that, in spite ofthe scandals, booster the risk of illegal activities which fund, but are denied the opportunity Boosters can work. It's been groups will continue to function in could jeopardize the. athletic to control the way their money is proven. college sports. And while Phelps is correct in sug­program. spent. They might direct it toward a While fund-raising groups con­"I don't think you can deny gesting stiff penalties for people in­"The Educational Foundation certain sport, but their power ends 
tributing to college athletic people the right to contribute to col­volved in illegal booster activities, raises money only for scholarships," 
see BOOSTERS, page 10 

programs have been tabbed as leges," he says. "That's the American some schools have avoided scandals he explains. "That limits their ac-
I f I I I 
~ 
l I r 
f t 
' 
I 
t 
~ ~ 
t I I t 

Holtz' recruiting philosophy is more long-range 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz seems to have a much more long-range approach to recruiting than former coach Gerry Faust had. In the wake of Faust's departure, Holtz was left with only 12 scholarship linemen, four on defense and eight on offense, forcing him to recruit an unusually high number oflinemen this year. 
Don't expect Holtz to ever get caught short like this again. His philosophy is to recruit talent to compliment the players he already has on campus· a smart (and practical) approach. 
Take a look at how Faust recruited over the last several years. The former Irish coach always seemed to recruit in j>unches, probably going too often for the best player in­stead of looking at his number situation at each position. That is why all too often you saw Irish players switching positions after a couple ofyears. 
Last year, for example, Faust recruited only two defensive linemen and four offensive linemen, and now the Irish are left short at those positions because ofgraduation. At the same time, he brought in three tailbacks even though Notre Dame already was heavily-stocked at that position. 
Faust also had to round upfour tight ends for the class of '89. Why? Because in the two previous years he had ·recruited a total of two, only one of which remained healthy. 
One year ago, we saw Tom Rehder moved from the defensive line to tight end because of the impending shortage of tight ends. If for some reason Faust had remained Irish coach, it is not impossible to imagine a scenario where he would have moved Rehder back to the ·defensive line this spring. 
Maybe the greatest example of this chaos in recruiting, 
though, is the quarterback situation. The past three years, 

Jeff Blumb 
Sports Editor 
·Faust has recruited eight quarterbacks, induding four two 
'years ago. While it's true that success in college is hard to predict for quarterbacks, eight quarterbacks in three years is just too many. 
• Why do you think guys like Joe Felitsky (Pitt) and Duke St. Pierre (Boston College) transferred within a year? St. Pierre didn't even last a month, probably because he arrived in South Bend to find the cupboard full ofQBs, five ofwhich were freshmen or sophomores. 
From the start, Holtz was looking to recruit only one quarterback this year, not three or four like Faust. Again, 1this goes back to his philosophies on recruiting high school athletes. ·. "It's a matter of numbers," says the Irish coach. "If you ;bring in three or four quarterbacks, you can't get them 'enough work. I've found that a quarterback needs a lot of repetition, a lot ofwork. Ifyou bring in three or four quar­terbacks in one year, you'll wind up with three or four third-stringers. If you bring in just one ofthose three, you'll wind up with a first-stringer." 
Should in any one year a quarterback not pan out, Holtz says, you simply bring in two the next year to compensate. Besides looking for balance in recruiting, another of Holtz' goals is to establish strong national recruiting bases. 
His ultimate goaJ. at Notre Dame is to have a strong base in Chicago, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington D.C. 
Of Chicago, Holtz said, "It's an absolute necessity. We must have a solid base there." 
The Irish accomplished that this year by landing nine recruits from the Chicago area, which, incidentally, is the same number Faust got from the Windy City duringallfive ofhis years as Irish coach. 
Polls are not very important. They really aren't. 

But the Notre Dame men's basketball team does deserve 
more respect than it received in this week's AP basketball 
poll. After last Saturday's win over No. 8 Syracuse in the 
Carrier Dome, anyone with common sense would say that 
Notre Dame deserved to climb from its No. 14 spot in the 
rankings. Yet, when the poll was released, there the Irish 
were, again ,\it 14th -and worse, still behind Syracuse, 
which sat in the No. 12 position. 

Granted, Notre Dame also lost a heartbreaker at Dayton last week, but the Irish did beat always-tough Maryland, as. well. Besides, shouldn't Notre Dame at least be considered. a better 'team than Syracuse? And while that supposition may or may not actually be true, in theory the Irish are better and should be voted that way by AP's nationwide panel ofsportswriters. 
Whoever said that sportswriters know anything? 
Polls have never ceased to amaze me. Then again, it probably just comes with the territory as sport itseif has 
see POLLS, page 10 

... 






