~--------------~-------------­
Fun-page7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 36 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1986 
f 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Leaders put blame for accord failure· on each other 
Associated Press The Americans "put good, fair 
Ideas on the table, and they won't 
WASHINGTON President go away," Reagan said, but he Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail also said the Soviet Union "has Gorbachev blamed each other long been engaged In extensive" Tuesday for their inability to efforts to devise Its own strategic strike an arms reduction deal In defense system. Iceland, but agreed that too Reagan said. the Soviet pro­much is at stake to fold the arms posal to confine Star Wars re­control bargaining table. search to the laboratory "would 
Recalling his description of have given them an Immediate Iceland as a base camp leading one-sided advantage, and a dan­to a summit, Reagan said, "I gerous one." believe there exists the opportu­Gorbachev talked of possibly nity to plant a permanent flag of having to counter the Star Wars peace at that summit, and I call program. on the Soviets not to miss this "Soviet people know this, and opportunity." all people around the world 
Gorbachev, in a nationally should know this as well," he broadcast address to the Soviet said. "But we are opposed to a people, accused Reagan oftrying power play. This Is an extremely to push his country Into an ex­dangerous undertaking In the pensive new arms buildup. But nuclear missile age." 
Gorbachev also said that At the Pentagon, a top U.S. East meets west the Chinese Army Monday In Peking. China negotiations cannot be aban­arms control strategist said the Britain's Queen Elizabeth and her host, Chinese staged an elaborate welcome for the British doned. He did say, however, the Soviet Union may well have President Ll Xlannlan, review an honor guard of monarch, the first to visit China. 
next move Is up to the United wished to protect some ofIts own States. breakthroughs In Star Wars-type The Intercontinental verbal research when It demanded that 
New service provides snack foods 
crossfire came two days after the the United States give up non­
pair, In a bittersweet climax to a laboratory testing of America's 
By JON THEISEN 6:.30 and 7:.30 the next morning, According to Angelle the three weekend of Intensive talks, space-based missile shield con­
News Staff the products are delivered to decided that to make a profit,grimly bade one another farewell cept. 
(their) door," said Very. "Even If they would have to average $60 In the darkness outside a white Richard Perle, assistant 
The Munchy Company, a new a product's not In the catalogue, of sales each day. "We received clapboard house in Reykjavik. defense secretary for interna­
student-run food service on you can ask for It," Angelle $140 In sales for the first night,""The American people don't tional security policy and a mem­
campus, will deliver quality added. reported Very. mistake the absence of a final ber ofReagan's negotiating team 
brand name snack foods to dorm The products come from five agreement for the absence of In Rey~avik. also suggested that 
rooms, according to a group of different manufacturers In the Very said this Immediate suc­progress. We made progress. We the Soviets advanced their unac­
students who organized the South Bend-Mishawaka area cess has given the three visions must be patient. We made his­ceptable demands to limit "Star 
company. said Very. "We are pretty much ofexpansion. "We have no Inten­toric advances. We will not turn Wars" research In hopes of stop­
Formed by Cavanaugh Hall the wholesaler's wholesaler. We tion of stopping," he said. 
back," Reagan said In a speech. ping all U.S. research In· space, residents Frank Angelle, Rob bypass the distributor and go di­"Probably after break, we'll add Gorbachev said the meeting Including work on new commu­Very and Luis Manglano, the rectly to the company who makes a couple of dorms In the North was useful, but foundered on nication systems and sensors. company began service to (the products)." Quad," said Angelle. "We hope 
Reagan's refusal to give up "Star Earlier, Reagan, briefing mem­Cavanaugh and Farley Halls ear­"The prices are really low com­to be university wide by Decem­Wars," the space-based missile bers of Congress on the super­lier this week. pared to a store," said.11anglano. ber." defense system. He said he power arms discussions, said, Through a survey of the By skipping any middlemen, The remained optimistic that the su­"Don't think this Is the end of the dorms, the group said they dis­Munchy Company is able to sell Angelle said The Munchy Com­
perpowers have not reached the book." He won bipartisan sup­covered a market of students products at 15-251ower than the pany was approved by Jon! Neal, end of the road In their efforts port for efforts to put talks back who wanted to "buyone time and store price and still make a 15-25 Director of Student Activities and to agree on arms control. on track. save money." percent gross profit, he said. Student Affairs, after the three 
Reagan said the Kremlin over­Reagan, greeted by standing Students in the participating "The prices are so low -I think proved that they were pursuingplayed Its hand In seeking to get applause from the lawmakers In dorms were given catalogues lis­that they are almost too low. a different market than Univer­him to scrap "Star Wars," the sys­the Cabinet Room, accused Gor­ting various brand name food People say "What's the catch?" 
sity Food Services and Hall Food tem known formally as Strategic bachev of derailing the talks by Items In store sizes along with said Very. Sales. "(University Food Ser­Defense Initiative, which the Insisting that all agreements "will prices. "Customers call in from "There are no gimmicks," said vices) serves food hot and for Im­president says is vital to 8-10 any night of the week. We Angelle. "This Is fresher than the mediate (hunger) satisfaction," America's defense. see REAGAN, page 3 take their order, and between supermarket." said Angelle. 


AP Photo 

Elle Wiesel, 58, was selected the winner of the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize. Wiesel, a survivor of the Nazi Holocaust and pioneer of human rights efforts In the postwar era, said the award wliJ give him a greater forum for his life's work, "the cause ofmemory, the cause ofremembrance" ofthe Holocaust. Story at right. 

Holocaust survivor earns Nobel 
Associated Press 
OSLO, Norway -Eiie Wiesel, who survived the Nazi Holocaust to become the voice of its victims and a champion of dignity for all people, was chosen Tuesday to receive the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize. 
The Norwegian Nobel Com­mittee praised the naturalized American author as a spiritual leader in an age of violence and hatred. 
"Wiesel's commitment, which originated in the sufferings of the Jewish people, has been widened to embrace all repressed peoples and races," its citation said. 
Wiesel, 58, lost his parents and younger sister in Nazi death camps during World War 
II. He has chronicled the suffer­ing of the Jews under Hitler and their problems in the Soviet Union today. 
"I have devoted my life to a certain cause, the cause of memory, the cause of remembrance, and now I feel that maybe I will have a better opportunity to say the same words. I'm not going to change now, for more people," Wiesel said in New York. where he lives. 
"I owe something to the dead. . .. That was their obses­sion, to be remembered. Anyone who does not remem­ber betrays them again." 
The committee's citation said: "Eiie Wiesel has emerged as one of the most important spiritual leaders and guides In an age when violence, repres­
sion  and  racism  continue  to  
characterize the world.  
"Wiesel  is  a  messenger  to  

mankind; his mes~e is one of peace, atonement and human dignity. His belief that the forces fighting evil in the world can be victorious is a hard-won belief." 
In 1944, Wiesel was among 15,000 Jews deported by Ger­mans and Hungarian fascists from his native town of Sighet in what is now Romania. It was 
see NOBEL, page 4 


-------· 
The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 2 


In Brief 

The slide show presentation on former Saint Mary's College President Sister Madeleva given In Madeleva Hall Tuesday night, was very poorly attended, said Vice President ofStudent Affairs Sarah Cook at Tuesday night's Programming Board meeting. Because of Sister Madeleva's Importance to the his­tory of Saint Mary's, the presentation will be reshown at a later date. Cook also announced plans to show the movies "Rebel Without a Cause, m'The Graduate" and "The Way We Were" for this year's United Way campaign. This year's goal will be $1800, said Cook, which Is approximately $1 per student. Senior Amy Dlmberlo was announced as the winner of the Tippecanoe Brunch with President William Hickey and his wife for having the balloon which traveled the greatest distance. Approximately 1440 helium-filled balloons were released Sept. 7, In celebration ofHickey's Inauguration. Dlm­berlo's balloon was found In Bar Harbor, Maine. 
University of Oklahoma linebacker Brian Bosworth has taken back his statement that he put stray bolts In cars while working at a General Motors Corp. plant, the university says. The president of the University of Oklahoma, Frank Horton, talked to Bosworth after former co-workers protested his com­ments, and Bosworth denied putting the loose bolts In the cars, according to university spokeswoman Catherine Bishop. Bosworth was quoted In Sports Illustrated magazine's fall football Issue as saying that at a summer job last year at OM's Oklahoma City plant, co-workers taught him how to Insert the bolts In hard-to-reach places so they would rattle. -Associated Press 
The model whose face was slashed on a Manhattan street, Marla Hanson, says she was sexually abused as a child and that experience steeled her for her more recent troubles. Hanson, 25, said she told her mother, her stepmother and father that she had been abused, and "they couldn't deal with it." She did notsay In the magazine who abused her. Hanson's former landlord, Steve Roth, and two other men face charges In connection with the June attack. Hanson has undergone plastic surgery and resumed some fashion modeling, but her face still Is scarred. -Associated Press 

Of Interest . 
"Strategic Choice Models on Latin American Politics," a Kellogg seminar, will be presented by David Collier today from 4:15 to 6:00p.m. In 222 Hayes-Healy. A Kellogg fellow, Collier teaches Latin American politics at the University of California, Berkeley, and Is the cofounder and former codirec­tor of the Stanford-Berkeley Joint Center for Latin American Studies. His work at the Helen Kellogg Institute for Interna­tional Studies Involves research on trade-union politics and on models of political change in Latin America. -The Observer 
Post-baccalaureate pre-medical recruiter at Bryn Mawr Col­lege, Fred Kraus, will give an informal talk tomorrow morning from 9:.30 to 11 In the Career and Placement Services office. He will speak on the PM'ID program at his school and the five-year programs at Brown, Dartmouth, Hahnemann, Medi­cal College of Pennsylvania, and the University of Rochester. Also, he will meet with students who have made a late decision to enter medicine and need to complete pre-medical require­ments after receiving their bachelor's degree. -The Observer 
• 


Weather 

Boston's Dennis "011 Can" Boyd may be a few quarts low, but he was good enough to earn the victory for the Red Sox last night. In the National League, the teams will finish the series In Houston's Astrodome where they won't have to deal with weather such as today's: mostlycloudy 

and very cool with a 20 percent chance of light showers. High In the mid to upper 40s. Tonight, cloudy and cold. Low In the low to mid .30s. Bm. Thursday, partly cloudy and cool. High In the low to mid 50s. -Associated Press 
-----Ihe. --Ob.se~~er-----A.-=-Y~ ----­
Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Editdt" . ....... Chris Donnelly Typesetters .............. Mike Buc News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski Copy Editor . .......... Patty Censki Sports Copy Editor .... Marty Strasen Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Bob White Viewpoint Layout ........ Bob White 
Accent Copy Editor . .. Mike Naughton Accent Layout ......... Alice Groner Typists ............... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovac SMC Day Editor . ....... Karen Webb Ad Design .......... Sharon Emmite Photographer.. ... Margaret Mannion 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproductioll'rights are reserved. 

College. friendships easily erased by time and distance 
A very large package came In the mall for me last week. The outside was covered with printing In Spanish; Inside, amongst a bale of hay, was a birthday present from one of my best friends. 
The box surprised and excited me, and yet tears ran down my cheeks as I opened it. The gift was from Erin who Is studying In London this semester and was In Spain for a travel break. Although she lived next door to me last year, I called her my roommate and thought of her as a sister. To say I missed her as I opened her gift would be an understatement. 
However the tears were not just because I missed her. I was saddened to think that Erin had been gone for six weeks and I had only written her twice. 
Does absence make the heart forget? Have I gotten so caught up In my life here under the Dome that I only have time to write and share the latest football score or a brief account of last weekend's SYR? Last year's .3:.30 a.m. pC\)ama par­ties after a crazy night have been watered down to a short paragraph explaining the barest details. I feel almost as If I'm losing touch and yet am comforted to know that Erin will return from Lon­don and take her place In my life again senior year. , 
But what about after senior year, I have to stop and ask myself. Will occasional letters be all that Is left of the friendships I will have worked so hard to nurture In my four years here? It seems every time you open the paper, some senior Is scared about graduating. Maybe some ofthis comes from their sophomore or junior year, when some of their classmates studied abroad and were not the part of their lives they were the year before. 
Before Erin left I had never been separated from a friend In quite the same way. Leaving my high school friends was different: I can easily say that I was never as close to a high school friend as I am to most of my friends at Notre Dame. The only separations I've had from them have been vacations in which I counted the days until I'd be back popping the midnight popcorn with them. 
The line from "The Big Chill" haunts me when­ever I think of graduation. Nick, the cynic, says of his college friends, "A long time ago we knew each other for a very short while." A very short while? I guess I like to think of these four years in terms of quality not quantity. I'm hoping the quality of my friendships here will be enough to stand the tests of time and distance after gradua­tion. 
It's hard to imagine my college days being "a long time ago," and yet I already feel very removed from my high school years. Years from now photo albums and scrapbooks will bring back great memories, but the only way to truly relive the good times or the bad will be with the college buddies who were there. 

Notre Dame seems a place well-suited for build­ing these lasting friendships. Although the admis­sions office takes some abuse, they somehow gat­her 1, 750 students· each year that have a great deal in common. There Is almost always someone around to share a hobby, a meal or a late-night cram session with. 
These unusual things are the fringes of friendships that build on the underlying founda­tions. These foundations are formed by living with and learning with those around you in a way unique to this time In your life. Take advantage of the personalities that surround you as go about your dally routines. Realize that all too soon scat­tered letters and phone calls will be the means of keeping friendships alive. 
Until then I have something to be thankful for. Thank goodness I'm only a junior and have 19 months to enjoy the wonderful friends I've made the last two years. And although I won't miss my books or classes or studying over October Break. I'll once again be sampling life without my college companions. Maybe I'll have time to write some letters. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
.. 
Ask one of the 3million Americans 

whdve 
survived cancer, if the money spent on research, is worth it. 
Weare 
. . 

w1nrung. 
IAMERICAN WCANCER "SOCIElY'~ 

The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Questions should be directed to Scott Bearby by Friday, October 17. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 3 


'UNLOC' victorious in ND library contest 
By JON THEISEN News Staff 
Dorothy Paul-Hoffman was named the winner In the Univer­sity Libraries' "Name the Automated Catalog Contest" ac­cording to Director of Libraries Robert Miller. 
Hoffman, a secretary In the Reference Department of the Memorial Library, was awarded the $50 first prize for her entry, "UNLOC," said Miller. 
The automated catalog sys­tem, expected to be In operation by May, will make Initial access to books easier through the use of modems or on campus termi­nals, according to Miller. 
"Faculty and students will be able to dial to find out If a par­ticular book Is In, or If It's not In," Miller said. "Also, a new zebra code on the back of Fresh­men I.D.'s will be used one day by the system to charge books to students," he added. 
Hoffman said she derived "UN­LOC" from "University of Notre Dame Libraries' Online Catalog." The name "seemed to be a good Image of what the system would be," she said. 
In a press release, Miller dis­closed that Hoffman's "UNLOC" was selected from 562 entries In the contest. Three runners-up were also named: Ramzl Bualuan, "CANOL"-Computer­Ized Access to Notre Dame LI­brary; Daniel Dooley, "ERIN"­Educational Resource Information Network; and Charles Hohenstein, "SORIN" System for On-line Retrieval of Information. Each runner-up was presented with a certificate for a Domino's pizza, according to the press release. 
Miller said In the press release that Robert Grahek. an engineer­Ing student Linda Gregory, su­pervisor of the University Libra­ries' Interlibrary Loan Office, and John Lucey, Professor of the Uni­versity Committee on Libraries 
judged the entries. 
SaintMary's Col~~ 
AHG£U ATHU!TIC PACIUTY • NOTIIE DAMI! 
ANTIQUE SHOW AND SALE Soutb Bend. Indiana 
OCTOBER 17~.l8 & 19 
Friday 1-9:30 Saturday 11-1:30 Sunday 11-5:80 
FREE PARKING 
U.50 AD.ISSION Prelea& Uaia card for 504 Discouat 
~turday -Senior Citizens Day -$1.00 80 ~UAUTY EXHIBITS 
Don t miss this fine event 



FAMILY HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------, 


:s20FF ADULT CUT l 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I
l family haircutters I
-------------------,




l$2?!!AD~~.~ 
t--~--------------~-1 
:$2QEf_.KID~~Ults: 
I Reg. $6, Now $4 ~haircutters I ~--------~---------~ 


MasterCuts 
family haircutters University Park Mall 2n-3no 


Las Vegas poHce detectives approach the body of a California man who leaped to his death Monday night in what poUce say was a bizarre stunt that went awrj~ Passengers in the plane believed the man wasn't wear­Ing a parachute, but poHce say be bad a lightweight chute that only partially deployed. 

a stateglc defense" against mis­siles. ·
Reagan 

In nearly 11 hours of talks, Reagan and Gorbachev reached 
continued from page 1 

agreement on sweeping reduc­be held hostage to a non­tions In long-range nuclear mis­negotiable demand that· the siles, and medium-range mis­United States foreswear once siles In europe and Asia. and for all our right to develop However, the accord unraveled because of Soviet Insistence on restricting Reagan's "Star Wars" plan for a space-based missile defense system. 

Administration officials stressed Tuesaday, as they had ever since shortly after the sum­mit ended, that arms control negotiations are not dead. 
"I think after these propaganda blasts of this week. In which the Soviets will try to blame us for the failure of Iceland, when that wave Is past I think quiet negotiations will go on," White House chief of stafff Donald Regan said In an Inter­view on NBC's "Today" show. 
"I think the process will start again and we'll be back to the bargaining table," he said. 
Fundraiser discussed by HPC 
By DAVID T. LEE News Staff 
United Way Chairman John Seldensticker discussed the upcoming fundralslng cam­paign at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night. 
Seldensticker said there will be campus-wide events. One event dubbed "Aerobathon," already slated for November 22, will have students sponsor two-hour aerobics sessions. · "The main source of fun­ding will be door-to-door," said HPC Chairman Joanle Cahill. 
Cahill encouraged hall presidents to plan their own events as well. 
In other matters, Ethiopian Charity Ball Chairman Ed Gar­rison said he needed to orga­nize committees for the spring event now In Its third year. He said applications are available at the Student Activ­Ities Board office In Lafor­tune. 
The Hall Life Fund Allot­ments were distributed last night to each hall. Each hall received from $800 to $1200, depending on the size and re­quests of the hall. The total budget for the semester Is $24,000. 
HPC Executive Coordinator Pat McCabe reported the "buzz bus" carried 200 stu­dents back to campus last weekend, a substantial In­crease over the previous weekend. He said the bus would only run on Friday this weekend. 
Students not going to the Air Force game were encour­aged to drop their tickets off at the Center for Social con­
cerns. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 4 
Nobel
Serial killer preying on drifters 
continuedfrom page 1 
one of the last great deporta­
tions in Hitler's extermination 
of an estimated 6 million Jews.
throughout streets of Los Angeles 
Associated Press 
LOS Angeles -A serial killer ap­parently has begun to prey late at night on drifters and other lone men on streets throughout the city In a fast-developing case that one detective says has vic­tims "popping up all over the place." 
Homicide detectives were trying to determine whether two more bodies found Monday, In­cluding the brother of All-Pro football great James Lofton, might be the work of the same person tentatively tied to nine other killings, said pollee Lt. Dan Cooke. 
It Is the second spate of serial killings to hit Los Angeles recent­ly. The first killer, the so-called "Southside Slayer" who also remains at large, has been tar­geting prostitutes In south­central Los Angeles. 
There Is no apparent connec­tion between the two crime sprees which, together, have taken the lives of more than two dozen people, Cooke said. 
One notable difference be­tween the two serial killers Is the rate of the deaths. The 17 South­side Slayer murders began just over three years ago and have been sporadic, with some kll­lings separated by months of in­activity. 

However, In the latest out­break. the nine killings have all occurred in the past six weeks, beginning Sept. 4. 
"Victims have started popping up all over the place. This Is a case that's developing quickly," said Lt. John Zorn, a .39-year-old detective who Is In charge of both Investigations. 
While five of the victims In the latest series appear to be drifters, Cooke said four others, Including a vacationer from Texas, cannot be classified as transients. 
An autopsy was scheduled on the body of Emanuel "Michael" Lofton Jr., .37, said county coroner spokesman Bill Gold. The brother of the .30-year-old Green Bay Packers wide receiver was found In a small park In south-central Los Angeles where he had been sleeping, according to his father. 
Lofton's father, 71-year-old Emanuel Lofton, said his oldest son had "been drifting for eight or 10 years. He just decided to do it. He didn't bother nobody In his life." 
The decomposed body of the other victim, known only as John Doe No. 244, also was found Monday, under a freeway over­
Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 

4219 Grape Road 277-6403 
rGET READY FOR JAMAICA! , 
I Tanning Center cauvot' I 
I ""'dI _,Wi:~..~ 
I

I ~~ 0\..,_ I I-I 
1 "----/ u•t The Sun 2"77• I 
lf!I!.SJ_'(!!I!.f!P.I--~~1J 
U.S. 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 

U.S. 
INFORMATION AGENCY 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE offer 
A Foreign Service Career 

[] 
Representing the United States abroad as a Foreign Service Officer 
The Initial Step: The Annual Foreign Service Written Examination 
December I 6, 1986 
Deadline for rec~lpt of application: 
October 24, 1986 
You may obtain an application from your Campus Placement Office or by calling (703) 235-9369 or 235-9377 
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
pass near Dodger Stadium, 

The boy's mother andnorth of downtown. 
younger sister died In theThe leaders of several groups Auschwitz concentration campthat provide services for the and his father died In Buchen­homeless said most of skid row's wald. He was separated fromtransients are not alarmed by the two older sisters at Auschwitzdeaths. 
and did not learn that they sur­vived until after the war. 
Violence already haunts their Wiesel settled in France,

world, said Jonathan Parfrey, where he studied literature, philosophy and psychology at the Sorbonne from 1948-1951. 
He also worked as a jour­nalist, traveling to Israel to cover the foundation of the Jewish state for the French newspaper L'Arche. He was Paris correspondent for the Tel Aviv newspaper Yedloth Ah­ronot In 1952, and In 1956 re­ported for it on the United Na­tions. 
Remaining in the United States, he applied for U.S. citizenship in 1956. 
who works In a hospitality kitchen sponsored by the Los An­geles Catholic Worker near a downtown park used by the homeless. 

-u~~~".P(~
Correction 
Judicial Commissioner Maria Cintron was quoted in­

N.D. correctly in Tuesday's Student Senate meeting story. Associ­ate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick 
S.M.C.
said two out of the four over­night parletals violations he had made a ruling on had resulted In suspension or dis­missal, according to Cintron. 

Joe Montana, quarterback. Football super­star who went from Notre Dame to two Superbowl championships, two SuperbowfMVP awards, and the cover of Time maga­zine. Now he tells his own story: the upsand downs, the conflicts and triumphsskyrocket career, with riveting play-by-. 
;;"'action in some of football's most 
)\¥exciting games ...as seen by ·•· · .· .·•.·.•· on the hot spot. 
u•Ml.·•l!'\.:0.. 
is the first book rd on Joe .the 

UNTIL OCTOBER 31 
appllcatfoM aoollable at: 
Center/orSoelal Conc­VnfDeNftvItfln,.trj/ 
Ca•p-Itffn,.trj/ 
~ceqf~-dce£d•cmdon 
formore lriforrnatlon, cal/239-7943 
~ 
G) 
m 

"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________~d-nesd_a~-octo-ber-15.1-986_.-pa-~5 
P.O.BoxQ 
Church and followers agree on birth control 

Dear Editor: 
You report Father McBrien as saying that only a tiny minority of Catholic theologians support the Vatican teaching on birth control. I have been unable to verify whether that report Is accurate; In any case, the statement as It has been published calls for a rebuttal. 
First, the term "Vatican teaching" Is loaded rhetoric, suggesting that the Issue is over the position of a particular power bloc within the Church. The wrongness of artificial contraception has been held by Popes, Bishops and theologians with Impressive unanimity for centuries. By any serious standard, it is a teaching of the Church as such. 
Secondly, in regard to the views of theologians, those of other ages have a right to be considered along with those of the present moment. By such a count, the overwhelming majority stands with the Holy See. 
Even as regards contemporary Catholic theologians, I am unaware ofany serious, systematic attempt to assess their stand on this topic. A great deal of publicity has been given to those who reject the Church's teaching, and I do not deny that there are many of them. But I know for a fact that there are also numerous others, faith fully and competently teach­Ing with the Church. As they are not making controversial statements, they don't make the headlines. Before declar­ing who Is in the majority, one needs to make a serious effort to count heads. 
I remember a theology student doing research on reactions to Humanae Vitae. On the basis of newspaper reports and the talk going around, he expected the reactions to be nearly all negative but was surprised to find much strong support for the encyclical. Such Is often the experi­ence of anyone who makes a systematic Investigation of what supposedly had been settled in public opinion. 
Was Father McBrien perhaps referring 

simply to American theologians? 
Americans have certainly been in the fore­front of the rt;jection of the doctrine on contraception. Even so limited, the asser­tion in question would probably be an exaggeration. In any case, America is not the Church. A statement about Catholic theologians has to take account of En­glish, Irish, French, German, Spanish, Italian, Canadian, Latin Americans, African, and how many others! It would be a remarkably well-informed person who knows what the majority of them think on any controversial issue. 
Finally, it must not be overlooked that, during the last fifty years, when the pres­sure in favor of artificial contraception has become particularly strong, every Pope to deal with the topic has reaffirmed the Church's position: Pius XI. Pius XII, Paul VI, and John Paul II. This unanimity on the part of the pastors who, in God's providence, have been commissioned to give the Church its supreme direction is far more impressive that a dubious 'majority opinion' of theologians. 
&Jward D. O'Connor, CSC 
Peaceful actions are a a voice for memorial 
Dear Editor: 

I note with Interest that on Friday the University will dedicate a new Peace Memorial. It is a fine idea to work for peace. Our government Is presently waging an illegal war against the govern­ment of Nicaragua, a war which bears no rational relationship to our national se­curity or our national Interest. 
If we are "to Jive and work for peace in our times," as Father Hesburgh has sug­gested, we might begin by speaking out against United States aid to the so-called "Contras." I urge that. as we pray for peace on Friday afternoon, the University administration speak out publicly against this undeclared twilight war on Nicaragua. It would reqube some courage, but there could be no more timely contribution to the cause of world peace. 
Rev. Issac McDaniel 0. S. B. 

Hard work is the only cure for writer's block 
Don't you just hate writer's block? 
If there Is one thing that drives me up the wall, It Is the time when I sit down at the computer console ready to take on the world with a hard-hitting editorial...and realizing that my mind has gone totally blank. It's kind of like a test pattern on your thoughts, complete with the annoying hum that goes with ft. 
Eric M. Bergamo 

here's to future days 
Nothing. Not one spark of an idea as to how to write that editorial. Premises and paragrF~nhs are written and then dis­carded after I say to myself, "No, it just Isn't going to work." 
It's like knocking on the door ofa house and finding out that nobody's home. 
What is so discouraging about writer's block is that here is a topic that I want to write about, something very serious that I want to inform the campus about and express my views on. But the problem is that my brain is stuck in neutral f.tnd spin­ning its wheels furiously in creative limbo. I stare at the screen, wondering how I'm going to write this editorial. Until I manage to shift my thoughts into first gear, the editorial is not going to get writ­ten. 
Sometimes, It isn't the writing that proves to be so hard, it's the search of a topic to write about. A number of ideas run through the mind as I remind myself, 
"Hey, I've got to write my Viewpoint column this week." And I realize a few moments later that I have nothing to write about. Writer's block Is bad enough, but edi­torial topic block Is the absolute pits. Some of the probable ideas for edltrolals that I think of, like abuses In college athletics and nuclear disarma­ment. have already been expounded upon so many times that they have been driven Into the ground. Other Ideas aren't timely. An editorial about Christmas during October? Nah. Other topics are of very little Interest to the Notre Dame au­dience. Instead ofan editorial on the right to bear arms, how about one on the right to arm bears? I hardly think so. It is a terrible thing to admit that the well of topics runs very dry at times. But that is Indeed the challenge of being a writer. It is the challenge to find something to write about and it is the challenge of getting past that Immensely thick writer's block in the middle of your mind and writing that hard-hitting edito­rial. Writing is not something that is mas­tered overnight. The only way to become better at writing Is to write and write fre­quently. 
Bill Glavin of the Newhouse School of Journalism at Syracuse University says this about writing, "Bad writers think that writing Is easy; good writers think writing Is hard." 
Writing Is hard. It takes a lot of thought and a lot of struggle to put out an edito­rial, or a news article or a features article. It Is a fact that most people find writing to be easy; fewer find It to be hard. It Is those who think writing Is hard who are the best writers. They are the writers who are reporting the news and writing the novels we read. They are the Red Smiths, the James Klrkpattlcks and the Art Buch­walds. They are the James Mlcheners and the Hermann Wouks. 
I myself believe that writing Is hard. It takes thought and concentration to write well. I make mistakes, as do all of us when we write. We may Interpret the topic Incorrectly, or not be as accurate as we should be. All reporters and all writers have made these mistakes In their lifetimes. To admit to these mistakes Is to admit that writing Is not easy. To stand 
back and criticize, while not admitting·. that we too can make those same mis­takes, Is to admit that writing Is easy. A few professors at this university should consider that when grading those next batch of papers. 
Whenever an article I have written Is printed, I read It over and always find numerous places where I could have made certain points clearer or find an­other word that would have been more specific. I will do the same with this article and will likely to find places where I could have written better. 
At age 75, Carl Sandberg said that he would become a good writer "If God gives me five more years." 
John Steinbeck wrote In a letter to his editor: "Sometimes I have felt that I held fire In my hands and spread a page with shining, but I have never lost the weight of clumsiness, of Ignorance, of aching inability." 
If those great writers felt writing was hard, then It truly Is. You may become the most acclaimed writer of your time, yet you will still feel that Inadequacy, that feeling that you could have written a sen­tence that would have more easily con­veyed what you meant. 
It takes many years to become a good writer. Hopefully I have started down that path to being a good writer. I know that It is going to be a hardjourney,·but writing Is the hardest art of all. Don't let anyone tell you that it is a piece of cake. 
Guess what? I think I just got past that writer's block. 
Eric Bergamo is a junior government t11Zf}or at Notre Dame and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Write to us Viewpoint Department 

ff's TOOLAT£,5/R.
H£/.PMt 
£V£R.YTHIN6 HAS
fiNO MY 
CHAN6W5!NCE
5NCAI<ERS, 
YO!/V& B££N GON&.
HON&Y1MY 
COIJNTRY 
N£E1J5M£.' 

AFT/3?.. NANcY REAGAN5 SPtZQ-f, I REALIZE!? THAT toB£tN REM/55, THAT 8Y'STANOIN610/...Y OUJ<JNG YOUR 5W·f?E'STRIJ(.TJV& BIN6t.5, 
I'O lET YOU 00/A/N
A'S A FRJ£NO. '-.......~--, 
P.O. BoxQ 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
"The only way to have a friend is to be one." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
(1803-1882) 

~i~~J!-<>~i_ll_t~------------------------------------------------------------w_e_d_ne_s_d_a~~-o_c_to_b_e_r_I_s_,_I_98_6_._-~P_a~g-e__6 
Political debater must explore all arguments 
In his Viewpoint article of October lO­ll, 1986 Jurgen Brauer asserted that the United States Is lying about its Involve­ment in Central America. But in present­Ing his case, Brauer omitted important relevant facts and distorted other to suit his own purposes, and as a result, it is very difficult to accept his conclusions. I will address each of the six "lies" that Brauer attributes to the United States and point out where omissions and distor­tions have occurred. 
James Bechwith 
guest column 
1. 
The U.S. promotes democracy in Central America 

Brauer claims that the Sandinistas are the only freely elected government In Central America. In fact. the opposition parties in Nicaragua boycotted the 1984 elections because they were nbt allowed to mount even token election campaigns, and the resulting elections were "free" only as compared to elections In other one-party, Marxist nations. Brauer Ig­nores the election of President Jose Napoleon Duarte In El Salvador who at the very least had to run against several other candidates in his election victory. 

2. 
U.S. policy in the region is a response to a Soviet threat 


Brauer failed to mention the $500 mil­lion of Soviet military aid the Sandinlstas 
'Louie,Louie' lyrics are not sexually explicit 
Dear Editor: 
I had to agree with columnist John Far­ley when he blasted the administration for outlawing the song "Louie, Louie" at Notre Dame football home games. But my anger soon turned to laughter when I realized the administration, along with the morally upright woman from Rock­ville, goofed! Their perceptions of "Louie, Louie" are hilarious and coincide with the ridiculous myths that most of the counrty believed about the song almost .30 years ago. 
Richard Berry originally recorded "Louie, Louie" in 1956, and the song be­came a modest hit. selling 1.30,000 copies. The song was about a man in a tavern telling a bartender named Louie how he was going to sail to Jamaica someday to capture the girl of his dreams. 
In 196.3, a Top 40 cover band from Portland, the Kingsmen, decided to re­record Berry's classic. Having little 

r 
r money, the Klngsmen had to settle for a cheap recording studio and some inex­perienced engineers. "Louie, Louie," 
therefore, was recorded in a primitive 
r 
way. Microphones were placed next to 

r 
amplifiers muffled with coats and 

r 
blankets, and the lead vocal mikes were suspended 15 feet in the air from the

' 
ceiling. Klngsmen lead singer Jack Ely literally had to shout his lead vocals! This

~ 
~ 
resulted in a poor recording with heavy bass and unintelligable muffled vocals. r As the record creeped onto the charts r later that year, a stir was being created r across the nation: "Just what is he sing­r ing?" Since the vocals could not be decip­r hered, many rock antagonists insisted, r "There must be obscenities in there r somewhere!" The FCC conducted an in-
r 
have received, Including tanks and helicopters. He ignores the presence of .3500 Cuban military advisers In Nicaragua. He also fails to point out that the Sandinistas are currently constructing a large military air field and a deep-water port whose most logical use would be as bases from which Soviet planes and sub­marines could patrol the U.S. coastline. .3. U.S. Policy has improved the human rights record in Central America 
In El Salvador, Duarte has clearly lead the effort to improve his country's human rights record, but Brauer does not give the Salvadoran people any credit for their efforts. Basically, Brauer focused his at­tention on the alleged human rights' abuses of the Contras and of U.S. allies in Central America while falling to point out the dismal human right record of the Sandinista regime. The International League fo~ Human Rights strongly criticized the civil rights record of the San­dlnista regime. The Sandlnistas have at­tempted to repress any and all opposition to their regime within Nicaragua including groups such as the Catholic Church, labor movements, business organizations, and the free press. 
4. The U. S. government is not preparing for deeper military involvement in Central America 
Brauer falls to point out that it could also be argued that the Soviet Union is preparing for deeper involvement In Central America based on the facts that I have mentioned above in statement number two. 
5. U.S. actions in Central America are in accordance with international and domestic law. 
Brauer fails to mention that the Sandi­nistas are also engaged in the same type of activities that he claims are illegally carried out by the U.S. and other Central American countries. For example, Brauer omits the fact that the Sandinistas have carried out a brutal, genocidal campaign against the Miskito Indians in Nicaragua, including the destruction of their lives­tock and villages, while he does not hesitate to cite similar attacks alleged to have been carried out by the Salvadoran and Guatemalan military. ,Brauer claims that U.S. funding of the Contras violates international law, but he does not point out that the Sandinistas fund their own "Contras" by providing assistance to rebels in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Colombia, and that the Sandinistas are therefore also guilty of violating lnterna­tionallaw. 
6. The U.S. has supported the Contadora peace process 
Brauer does not mention that the San­dlnlstas have a poor track record in regards to keeping their promises. They failed to live up to the democratic prom­ises that they made after the 1979 revo­lution. Indeed, the Contras' political lead­ership Is made up of former Somoza foes who became disenchanted with the San-
P.O.BoxQ 

vestigatlon and found no evidence to sup­port such a claim. In fact, it was this false perception that made "Louie, Louie" such a huge hit with the teenagers of that era. 
Here are the actual lyrics to "Louie, Louie": 
Louie, Louie Me gotta go now Louie, Louie Me gotta go now 

A fine little girl, she waits for me Me casts a ship across the sea I sail the ship all alone I never think I'll make it home 
chorus 
Three nights and days, me sailed the sea Me think of girl who comes to me Through all the ship I dream she's there I smell the roses in her hair 
chorus 
Me see Jamaica moon above It won't be long, me see my love Me take her in my arms and then I tell her I can never leave again 
chorus 
What a farce the woman from Rockville has created! And what a flub by Fr. Hes­burgh to believe her! We haven't seen such a stuffy attitude since Elvis wasn't allowed to wiggle his waist on the Ed Sul­livan show in 19571 C'mon guys, lighten up! Let the University band perform one of the students' favorite dance and party tunes. 
Sources: The Best ofLouie, Louie Rhino Records, Inc Billboard's Book of Top 40 hits" Joel Whitburn 
T.J. Miles Dillon Hall 

Church dissenters need to quietly seek truth 
Dear Editor: I will be the flrst to admit that, as far as knowledge of the Church is concerned, I am like a flea compared with a theolo­gian like Father McBrien. Perhaps, then it is a result of my ignorance that I dis­agree with him about so many things. Nevertheless, child though I may be, I -suspect my parents are up to no good. As all Catholics know, tlie Church is the living Church of Christ which is guided and instructed by the Holy Spirit. While the Holy Spirit is perfect in every way, guiding we who are so imperfect, we nevertheless pray fervently for a correct understanding of God's will. Throughout the Church's history, the Holy Spirit has given us some very explicit directions (e.g., Jesus is both fully man and fully God, and Mary was assumed into heaven.) Then there are others which are pronounced as infallible or absolute, namely such issues concerning birth con­trol, sexuality. et al. The liberal move­ment. It seems to me, has taken these two different types of Church rules and made one black and the other white. Can this be? Is everything not written in stone open to argument? As I reflect upon the Church's past, it seems rather that they are varying degrees of cogency in moral and theological doctrine, that is to say, things are not either black or white. Hasn't this been a tacit assumption throughout the Church's history? Ifit hasn't, I wonder how the Church has survived for 2. 000 years. When the bulls of its teaching are, as the liberals see it, "open to question." If the American liberals were to have it their way, what would evolve would not been an enlightened Church guided by the Holy Spirit, but rather outright Protes­tantism, where majority defines truth. 
dinistas failure to live up to their prom­ises, which included trying free, demo­cratic elections. Taking this into consideration, it is quite understandable that the U.S. is not anxious to rely solely on the Contadora process. Perhaps if the Sandlnistas cleaned up their human rights record and made an effort to fulfill their earlier promises their sincerity at the negotiating table would receive more credence. 
Certainly, Brauer has raised several im­portant points about U.S. policy, past and present. in Central America. But his criticism of U.S. policy should not be ac­cepted on face value because he only told half the story. Brauer accused Rep. John Hiler and Senator Dan Quayle of lying about U.S. Central American policy. Based on the points I have mentioned above, this would not appear to be the case. Indeed, it is Brauer who tried to deceive the readership of The Observer by only mentioning the facts which sup­ported his preconceived ideas while ig­noringany evidence that might contradict his view. Since Brauer has endorsed the candidates running against Hiler and Quayle, it Is a safe bet that his choices are only aware of half of the story in Central America and are therefore not very well Informed. 
James Beckwith is a graduate student in the Department ofChemical Engineering. 
Another facet of all this turbulence I find rather Intriguing concerns how leaders like Father Hesburgh and Father McBrien see a necessary tension between the university and the ChUrch. Why is this? Hesburgh, if I read him correctly, does not see how rigorous investigation can be compatible with static church teaching in every case. Why? Granted, we need investigation of all sorts at a uni­versity, but the investigation must be done-in a proper way. Theological dis­cussion becomes incompatible when publicity hounds like Father Curran are dealing with it. There is no tension be­tween a well thought-out moral, theologi­cal, or whatever type argument which dis­agrees with the doctrine of the Church until that theology is done in an improper fashion. Do we ever find St. Thomas call­ing all the -cameras to him? Do we ever find St. Thomas waving his fist at Rome whe one of his ideas is rejected? Why is this? Perhaps we can clear the air from all this Curran and Hunthausen noise by a quiet reflection on what the Church meant to St. Thomas, the Angelle Doctor. Maybe he understood something Curran and the rest of his crew don't. 
David M. Woods Holy Cross Hall 

Keep it short 
The shorter your letter to the editor, the more likely it will be printed in The Observer. So when you write a letter to the editor, please keep it under 250 words. 
General Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ... ............. Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 7 

CHRISTI HOLTZ 
features writer 

Athletics are an Important part of the Notre DamE'/Salnt Mary's community. Intramural and club sports give the students a chance to continue participating In a sport that they e11loyed In high school or to learn a new one. 
One Intramural sport that Is ac­tive .at Saint Mary's Is flag foot­ball. LeMans, Holy Cross, McCandless, and Regina halls all have teams which compete against each other. Practices begin In the middle of Septem­ber and play continues Into early November. Games are usually played on Tuesdays and Thursdays ofevery week. Anyone who lives In the dorms Is eligible to play on her hall team; no ex­perience Is necessary. Dedicated Notre Dame men coach the teams, and run practices several times a week. They teach the wo­men fundamentals, create differ­ent plays and strategies, set up scrimmages, and offer basic moral support throughout the season. 
The competition Is tough; each dorm has an eye on the cham­pionship at the end of the season. Holy Cross Hall was the champion last year, and the team Is working hard to repeat that feat. This won't be easy, as the other dorms are hungry to take the crown. 
Cathy Bove, of Holy Cross, gives her coaches a lot of credit for leading their team, "Our coaches are really good. They make playing a team effort, and we have a lot of fun." 
She also adds praise for the dedication of her head coach. "Mark Neronl is very excited about the game and coaching. He takes it seriously and works hard on our plays. He coached the All-Star team last year against Notre Dame, too. Hopefully, we'll be able to do it again." 
The coaches seem to enjoy flag football as much as the wo­men who play for them, and they believe strongly in their teams. 
Jeff Chiesa, a coach for LeMans is Impressed with the competitiveness of the teams, "Last year most games were very close-the competition was tough. This year it's true too. I believe the quality of football at Saint Mary's is comparable to that of the Notre Dame women. I would like to see them play to­gether more, so there would be more than three teams to com­pete against." 
Many of the players· would also like the opportunity to play more teams and think it would be fun to set up scrimmages with Notre Dame. Such practices would give the women a chance to get to know each other better before they play in a real game. 
Maria Dati of Regina feels it would be nice to set up a system similar to that of bookstore bas­ketball, "This would give us more teams to compete against and expand the intramural sport. If we got support from the women at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's we might be able to get this started." 
Denise Regent of Holy Cross adds, "Right now, the object of the whole season is to play Notre Dame. Playing Notre Dame throughout the season would be nice, and perhaps take some of the pressure away. We're friends with the other teams; in the games we play for real, but we leave as friends. It would be great to expand that." 
Coaches and players agree that the main goal offlag football Is to have fun. 

Eric Scheuermann, a LeMans coach, says, "It's great. We do have a lot of fun. The tlrst prac­tice Is taken pretty seriously with drills and all that but now that we all know each other well and have a good time the women won't take us too seriously­they'll never run when we tell them to." 
Everyone participating agrees that flag football Is great to get Involved In, but wish they could get more support. 
'We would like to see the games and scores covered in The Observer. That way more people would hear about us and come out and support their dorms," states Chiesa. 
Dorin! echoes this sentiment, "Yes, we'd like more support, and let people know flag football is going on as a real activity. We're enthusiastic and the games are exciting to watch." 
Flag football is alive and well on both campuses and people are encouraged to get out and get Involved in the sport, either as a player or a spectator. 
All the girls agree, 'We just want to stress that flag football Is a lot of fun, a good way to get some excerclse, vent some ag­gression, and meet new friends which last long beyond the end of the season." 

The French 
exercise in utility 
So, did you pick up a game of hoops or take a jog around the lakes today to clear your mind after Economics or work off last night's Domino's? Even if you're not a Domer, I wouldn't be surprised if you had. 
In the past ten years or so, Americans have become ex­tremely health conscious. They are more aware of the many positive benefits one can receive from following a dally regime of eating well, exercising regularly, and limiting vices such as alcohol and cigarettes. 
I have found, though, that is phenomenon has yet to fully 
·.a. 
reach France and much of Europe. People here eat balanced meals and balance them well into their day, but they do not exercise as a rule and consume more alcoholic beverages and smoke more than Americans. 
Mary Berger 
C'est Ia Vie 


In this country reknowned for its cuisine, one can find few faults with the food and meal planning from a nutritional point of view. Breakfast Is very light: bread and coffee or tea. Lunch Is the hot main meal of the day: usually meat or fish and vegetables, while dinner Is another light meal: pasta, eggs, or a cheese-tilled pastry for Instance, and perhaps vegetables. Bread accompanies every meal with cheese and either fruit or a sweet dessert Is eaten after lunch and dinner. 
From an American stomach's point of view, there Is never enough food. But If the French people can thrive on such a regimen, this seemingly sparse amount must be suf­ficent. By French Standards, Americans are a bit gluttonous and quite overfed. I overhead one person say we Americans are not healthy because we eat so much. · 
But what do we do after we have consumed all of those calories? We burn them offl 
Whether It be a walk after dinner, an aerobics class before work, or a stop at the gym during lunch, many Americans take the time to exercise. Not only does a good workout help keep us in shape, it also relaxes us and relieves the pressure 

Here, some people do participate In team and individual sports such as soccer or go to a gym but they are a minority. Physical education classes are rare In school curriculums and even more rarely are they mandatory. 
One of my professors told a story of her grade-school days when her P.E. class was scheduled between two academic classes. She told us that she hated having to change her clothes, run around or play games and get sweaty, and then change her clothes again for her next class. So, her father wrote a note excusing her from class. Imagine if she went to Notre Dame and had to slip in a swimming class at the Rock between an 8 a.m. class In the Engineering Auditorium and one at 10:10 a.m In the library! 
It is true that perhaps the French do not need to burn as many calories as we Americans, but they could benefit from the stress-relieving aspects of exercise. 
I am sure living here Is as stressful as life In the United States. In the states, students are faced with SAT's and ACTs as they prepare for college. Similarly, In France, high school seniors must study for hours to pass the Baccalaureate exam, and I have been told that great pressure accompanies this test. 
Likewise, single parent families and women In the work force are present In this societyjust as In America. The prob­lems ofabortion, unemployment, and other worries also con­cern the French as much as they concern Americans. 
So, how do the people cope? The leisurely two-hour lunch that everyone takes Is very relaxing. Quite often, families go to their homes in the country on weekends and find respite there. I'm sure there are many other ways people find to relax, but exercise does not seem to be a very popular one. 
If one wishes to exercise here, h«: may consider his walk to the bakery or local cafe as enough and can't see why we "crazy Americans" spend so much time wearing ourselves out sweating and suffering so we can feel good and look better. 
The Ob•erver/Margaret Mannion 

Allen Pinkett would be proud ... 
a 
t 
I i• 
•
t 
----------------~-----~ 
.. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 8 
Sports Briefs · · . 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 12 

State's 13 returning letterwin­
ners and take more shots on 
goal. Taking repeated shots on 
goal and drawing more penalty 
corners should help the Irish 
control the field as well as put 
more pressure on the Spartans' 
offensive and defensive squads. 
Recent weather conditions 
have limited practice time some­
what but the team has main­
tained Its fitness level within the 
warm confines of the ACC and ·will be ready to accept the Spar­
tans' challenge. 

"They're probably favored," 
Lindenfeld says, "but everyone 
Is ready for a Division I school 
to test ourselves. We are hoping 
to leave for Boston 5·5." 

Saturday the Irish fly to Boston 
in hopes of adding four victories 
to their record, over two tough 
Division I teams and two chal­
lenging Division III schools. 

The Notre Dame basketball team will conduct tryouts for the "walk-on" position tonight from 9-11 p.m. That Is a change from the previously reported time of 8-10 p.m. All students Interested should report, dressed to play, to the auxiliary gym In the ACC by 8:45 on Wednesday. If you have any questions, contact Coach Kilcullen In the Basketball Of­flee. -The Observer 
The NO boxing club will hold the Novice Bouts today at 4 
p.m. In the ACC Boxing Room. All are welcome. Admission Is free. -The Observer 
The SMC tennis team shut out Manchester College yester­day, 9-0. Singles winners for the Belles were Jennifer Block. Sandy Hickey, Shaun Boyd, Kate McDevitt, Charlene SZC\Jko and Buffy Heinz. The doubles teams of Hlckey-SZC\Jko, Block­McDevitt and Heinz-Kim Drahota were also victorious for Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
The NO santng club will hold its last meeting before break tonight at 6:30 at the boathouse on St. Joseph's Lake. For more information call Tony Fink at 1082. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC scuba club will hold a meeting tonight at 7:30 In room 218 Rockne Memorial. The remaining open positions for officers will be fllied. All certified divers and people Inter­ested In learning how to dive are welcome. -The Observer 
Officials for co-ree basketball are needed by NVA. Applica­tions are available at the NVA office, or call 239-6100 for more Information. -The Observer 
The NO rowing club will hold a general meeting for all varsity rowers tonight at 8:30 In room 123 Nlewland con­cerning the trip to Philadelphia. Bring your checkbooks. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Cen­ter before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Ob­server • 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­
dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
Loat Gold Watch Manufacturer Buc­Weelthy working alumni '85 need tlx THE ONLY DJa THAT MATTER 
...

SPRINGBREAK '87 MISSED YOU WEDNESDAY. YOU herer II you lind It call Betay at 2156 Campus Rep. Organize Salling for AIR FORCE and NAVY call Paul THE UNCOLA OF DJa ... CALL PAT KNOW YOU'RE VERY SPECIAL,234-41110
NOTICES or drop It oft at Lewla 241. Thanka 277·3887, TITO 2n-o973, OR DON SEYMOUR 283-3875 
Charter• DON'T YOU? HOPE TO SEE YOU 
Ft. Lauderdale to Bahama• BEFORE BREAK, BUT IF I DON'T, TYPING AVAILABLE LOST· Blue Kazana Jean Jacket on Commlaalon l Free Crulee HAVE A GREAT TRIP, ENJOY THE
HELPI DAD IS COMING Ill 287-4082 Green Field Sat. attar tha game near Call Captain Wllllama Need Penn State Tlxl Call Jim at 277· Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB· SUN, AND BE GOOD. VICTOR. 
the bllckatop. II found plea.. call 7547 MARINE 11 272·HIKE. Delivery houra: Moira x1287. Monday ·Thureday 5pm·12am; Friday 
1850 SW 23rd Terrance Ft. Lauderdale 
33312 Wordproceulng·Typing (305)583..(1202 Anytime 5pm·2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 272-8827 4pm·10pm. Lonely? Feeling down? Desperate? Call Chrta (1322) lor an emotional 
LOST: 2 camerae lalt on a car at en· 

ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX • 513-SELLING ONE ROUND-TRIP PLANE trance to D-2 Parking Lot laat Saturday 
SAME-DAY TYPING "rtu." 
881·9341 AFTER 5. TICKET TO L.A. FOR BREAKIII afternoon. If found PLEASE call KENNO Pick-up 
Quick· Type, Inc. Wlinted: Babyaltter. Part-time, flexible Call Trlcla et 1847 JERRY "CRASH" HOLLOWAY 
. ·2008. REWARDIII

2n-1998 houra. knollwood. Phone Kathy I NEED 8 GA'S FOR THE PENN STATE REVERSE DRIVING 101 PHASE 1 :USE Dvorak, 2n-1538. GAME. CALL LISA 272·7848. BRAkE THOSE ON "HILL STREET" 
TYPINGWOROPROCESSING LOST: One box of Maclntoeh dleke. 5 · BELKER AND HUNTER 
CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. dlaka, of peraonal value only pleue I DESPERATELY NEED 3 SMU GAS. 

JAMAICA! JAMAICA! JAMAICA!
return to John 1223. Reward ollared. 

PLEASE CALL MARGARET, X4087. NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND. LEAVE
Salling my bid lor$420, ortglnally $500 FRI. OCT. 18 CALL DAN 4239 $$$Pluee call Jim at 2n-7547
Proleealonal word proceaalng and FOR SALE 
Pair of GA tlx Air Force lor aala. Beat typing. Convenient location on N.lron­
ollar by Wed night. Call Pater 2n-"I'll be home lor Chrtatmaa." wood. Call NICS 2n-4220. 
8285, 9AM·12noon; and 8PM to 11 PM
Loat: A gold necklace with pendant of TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER To Kerry end Thereu In London The 
0

Bleaeed Mother aomewhere around RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Wlldllowera are alive and well and "''"'"'"'"'''''''''''''''''''''"'''''''''''''''!oouooooooo
NEED RIDE TO OHIO I THURS. OR FRI. 

Stepan Flelda. OF GREAT SENTIMEN­FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272·5959. JUNIORS Third Thureday Bowling at
living at NO WE MISS YOU AND LOVE PREFERRED. M CALL MIKE X4549 
I NEED PENN ST. TICKETS MY BROT· Beacon Bowl 9:30 p.m.-? Start break 
TAL VALUE.Pieau all Llae 283-3824. YOUIIIII New Hampahlre on Jan.1 ?Ill Thanka and have a good dayl 78 CHRYSLER CORDOBA AIR Kl MB
HER WILL PAY-Chrla In 181 Cav eertylll·SENIOR TRIP· SPACE FOR SALE. 
or call 283-1407 PRICE NEGOT. CALL KEVIN, late, 
POWER 48000 MILES EXCELLENT CALLING ALL IN TRANSIT...LETS 
3888 LOST: BLACK GE CASSETTE RADIO CONDITION 255-3247 Beat the bua to Waah. DONo. VIrginia. 
Will pay MAJOR BUCKS lor 4 PENN TALK ABOUT THE PASSION, R.E.M
FROM TAILGATE ON SATURDAY. MIX 2 rldara are needed lor 1017 depar·
ST GA'a ao family can wltneaa the FANS. Compilation of very rare REM
TAPE TOO. CALL BODEY 284-4138. lure, 1().28 return. $45 roundtrip. Great 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 

IRISH make the LIONS MEOWI Call tracka-FEMME FATALE, TIGHTEN UP,
BILLY JOEL IN CONCERT BILLY JOEL appreciation of tollroad acanery andMRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
Andy-x1243 BURNING HELL, TOYS IN THE Arne,
IN CONCERT Four tlcketa lor Fri. a varied mualcal taate required. Call MOREl atudlo quality, lmporta. Yours 
night, Octobllr 31 In Chicago. Good JIM at 2250. 
TRADE 2 AIR FORCE GA'S FOR 2 SMU for the price of 1 cheap album, taped uata. Call 234-8188 alter 11 pm lor GA'S. CALL 2848 on hi-qual. TDK-Taking ordera lor
prtca, ate. NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T·
LOST/FOUND .__I_w_A_NT_E_o____. 

over bruk. Limited quantity avail. ao
I . SHIRTS
I'm daaperatel I need TWO GA'a lor call Chlneu Brotheralnc. now at 2495 
RADAR DETECTORS Maxon RD1, aa 
the AIR FOjCE game, or I'm a DEAD or 2550 lor Info. LOST: NAVY BLUE BOOKBAG LOST 
RIDERS NEEDED TO ANDOR FROM advertleed In Nawawuk, but only A VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT OF NOTRE
MAN. call Mike at 3104. IN SOUTH DINING HALL CONTENTS 
NASHVILLE AREA TO SHARE EXP. $95.00 Get youra before break, and DAME BEACH CLUB T·SHIRTS LEFT. 
LEAVE OCT 20 RETURN OCT 28 CALL ..ve on tickets. Plenty of stock on MEDIUMS ONLY $8, LARGE ARE FOR
3 SPIRAL NOTEBOOKS WITH NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'all CALL

RICH X2024 hand. Call Alfredo 272-8582 or John $8. CALL 272·3932 FOR INFORMA·
FOLDERS, 1 PAIR OF GLASSES, A ROB ENRIGHT AT 232·8917 ATTENTION ALL ELIGIBLE MALESill 
~83-1223. TION.
NEWSPAPER, AN ECONOMICS Moahay aaya: Shootll I need to lind BOOK, AND A CALCULATOR IF YOU NEED 1·5 GAS OR STD TIX FOR SMU me a REAL man I Requlrementa: Muat
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T·
FOUND THEM CALL ME AT 283-3038 EXPERIENCED PIZZA MAKER AND PSU CALL PAUL 1758 be 8'3" or taller, muat be aggreaalve
SHIRTS
WANTED. NIGHT SHIFTS. HOURLY and know how to treat a woman like PAY. APPLY IN PERSON. NICOLA'S TICKETS a woman. Athletic ability and southern 
We are the aona of no one. The baa­
LOST:LOST-HELPII II I LOST MY B· RESTAURANT, 1705 SOUTH BEND gentllty would elao be greatly appre­
FOOLISH MORTALS ... tarde of young. We are Blenk Gener·
LAW NOTEBOOK LAST WEEK AND ciated. APPLICATIONS ARE NOW
AVE. 

$$ I NEED 1·8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ The YOCkMONSTER needa 4 Penn etlon. Divide and Conquer. Theddeua
WOULD BE FOREVER GRATEFUL BEING ACCEPTED 
DAN 3273 State GAa and 4 atud. tlx to lure un· Zonker, Paul Edwarda, Phil Mac·(MAYBE EVEN REWARD OF 8-PACK) NEED RIDER TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR auapectlng human ucrlllce vlctlma to Creevla
TO THE DOMER WHO FINDS AND. ...that policeman came from nowhere II 
OCTOBER BREAK. LEAVING SUN· RETURNS IT. ITS A RED SPIRAL AND ...how feat where you going? ...too
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S·famlly'allrat NOI 
DAY. CALL FRAN AT 4404. 

vlalt CALL 272-3483. CALL 232·5478 to make a deal with RIDER NEEDED: ~90 to Buffalo, ahare 
MIGHT HAVE BEEN LEFT IN feat. ... ahould have had a Radar De­
the Devlll expancea. TIM 2n-8459
NIEULAND ON TUESDAY &30, OR IT tector. Radar Detectora lor ule, get
Paranta want to party at NO, Need 4 ...THERE IS NO ESCAPEIII
COULD REALLY HAVE BEEN LEFT them before break and avoid ANYWHERE. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL RIDE NEEDED FOR 2 TO NYCLI AREA encounter• of the worat kind. Only
AF GA'a and 6 SMU GA'a. Cell Dave PLEASE ATTEND "THE FUTURE OF at 2271 CATHOLICISM," A LECTURE GIVEN
AMY AT £342711111111111111 AND BACK FOR OCT. BREAK. WLL $95.00 will uve you quite a bit later.
I NEED AIR FORCE GAa.272-8308 BY FATHER THOMAS O'MEARA
SHARE USUAL. FLEXIBLE LEAVE Call lor delivery now, Alfredo 272·
................................................................ TONIGHT AT 8:00PM IN THE CENTER 
LOST: A SET OF KEYS IN A MAROON TIMES. CALL MIKE X 1527. 8582 or John 283-1223 . 
AIR FORCE GAa FOR SALE.2n-o296 FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION. THIS
CASE, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 158A MY BOSS FROM HOME WILL PAY IS FOR THEO MAJORS AND ALL
STEPHEN CHEMISTRY AND WASH· RIDERS NEEDED: TO THE PIT· YOU BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR PITT OR sMc..FiiENcH''cl:ue'S'Po'tisoRiN·a·A: 
OTHER INTERESTED PERSONS.
INGTON HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK­AIR FORCE TICKETS (STUDENT OR TRIP TO A WINERY SAT. NOV.1, CONTACT CARRIE, 345 BREEN· CALL ED 3008 GA'S) PLEASE CALL 283·2493, JOHN. $&PERSON. FOR MORE INFO, CALL
DON'T CRY FOR MY ARGENTINA, 1
PHILUPS, 1337. I need alot of thlnga, HILLERY 284-5233. 
ALREADY HAVE MY TICKETS FORbut I'll uttle lor 2 Air Farce GA'a "EVITA" SUNDAY, NOV. 2,
PLEASE HELP ME-I'M LOCED OUT 0 Hied 2 GAa lor Air Force Andy 1850 ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO FLORIDA 
MY OORMIIIoet my DETEX at thellrat Call Jim at 283-1874 O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, SAINT OCT. 21 THRU 27, SOUTH BEND TO I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'8-$$-CALL
pep rally. II youlound one, pleeu call MARY'S. GOOD SEATS STILL AVAIL· ORLANDO, $150. CALL TAMI AT me becauu I have the Identify-lng JOE·£1737 Donate: give Mlchlana Sheltered ABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE. 284-4828. HAIRCRAFTERS 284-5383. n.umbera. REWARD. call Sharon Make aure my parents pay eecond -Workshop cllenta a big thrill-donate x1889. 'master tuition ao I can get out of thla Air Force game tlcketa (handled only MOJE, I LOVED YOU AND YOU USED
wanted rtdera to unlv. of llllnola lor fall breek. loving uturday alter air ,place. Sail me 2 GAs lor Penn State by the Center For Social Concern•) HEY YOU SENIORS WAKE UPIIF U R MEl YOU JUST TORE MY LOVE 
force. call kerry 233-8703 alter 8 pm. 10 they can axpertence NO football.
LOST: One white folder In South Drop ofi.Pick up tickets at the Center. A THIRD OR FOURTH GENERATION ASUNDER. 
Dining Hall. I've already flunked my Call Mark at 2339. 239-5293. DOMER WE NEED Ul WE WANT TO Amertcan Conatltutlonal Law teat. But WANTED: RIDERS TO CHICAGO FRI. ME U A STAR ON THE SENIOR CLASS WINE TASTING SEMINAR AT SMC I'm kind of fond of that folder ao I'd 17 OCT. CALL STEVE AT 3288 OR Help I I need 4 tlx to Air Force game. FOR SALE: 1 AF STUD. TICKET. BEST VIDEO. PLEASE CALL MICHELLE 284-TUESDAY, OCT. 28, 7 P.M.,
3287

atlll like to get It back. II found, call Will pay $$$1 Mary 2n-ao33 OFFER. MICHELLE 284-5275. 5096. CHAMELEON ROOM OF HAGGAR 1542. RIDERS NEEDED: TO THE PIT· COLLEGE CENTER. TICKETS ON TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK-HELP • Hied ride to Bloomington, IN, I NEED AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY FANTASTIC AIR FORCE GA'SII CALL SENIORS WHO ARE
ATTENTION SALE FOR $5 TODAY, OCT.15, FROM 
1310 thla weekend (Fri. or Sat.) Will help TOP DOLLARI JAMAICA BOUNDI THE SENIOR
m-5837. 4:30 TO 8 P.M. IN LEMANS LOBBY. ahara expenua. Call Kevin ph.£2035 call: SCOTT 2n-3788 CLASS VIDEO-SPECIAL MOMENTS 
?'S CALL 5188. MUST BE 21. LOST: Navy Blue Jackal In 120 HH laat COLLECTION • WILL BE FILMING ON Thuradey II found pluee call Mike deaparately need 4 Air Force GAs, THE ISLAND. SO GET THOSE SMILES HAPPY 20TH TO OUR CREW £1895 Pleaulll Tony 2088 AND TAN BODIES READY. U DON'T GODDESS, SUZI Q. YOU'RE
PERSONALS

RIDERS NEEDED TO HILTON WANT TO FORGET THAT SPECIAL AWESOME! LOVE, YOUR 5 A.M. LOST: Wire rimed glaaeea In a tan HEAD,SC OR VICINITY OVER PLEASE SELL ME YOUR AIR FORCE WEEK. BUDDIES. cau. I ca~'t -anything. HELP II BREAK.LEAVE SAT. CALL MIKE GAl ONCE AND FOR ALL AND QUIT OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER l LIQUOR, found call Mike x1895 Thanka. 1857. WHINING ABOUT IT! CALL 234-4842 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE S!MC SUNGLASSES ARE HERE COACH TOM S., HAVE A TERRIFIC 
and ASK FOR TRIPPIIIIIIIIII BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SMC SUNGLASSES ARE HERE BREAKI THANKS FOR BEING SUCH LOST: A LONG TAN TRENCHCOAT AT HOUSESimNG POSITION WANTED. LOOK FOR SIGNS A GREAT COACHII THE RUDE BUT THE CENTURY CENTER FRIDAY, Mlulonary MD family needa houalng $$$BEER NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? APOLOGETIC REBEL. OCT. 10 AT LEMANS SYR.IF ANYONE Jan-May. Experienced houeealttera. CALL SCOTT 1352 Deaparately need a ride lor Fall Break! HAS SEEN IT PLEASE CALL JOLENE Ref avail. 289-8883 Call Rob at 1548. Will more than share Pleaae help me out, I need a ride back HAPPY 19TH CHRISTINE BYRNE. AT 284-4408. Hied Air Force tlcketa. Call 283-2325. expenaea. to achool from break-can bll picked YOU'RE LEGAL IN OHIO I LOVE, K.K. 
up along 180 nur Bloomsburg, Pa. • LOST GOLD-TONE PEN ON 10-14-88 NEED A CHEAP RIDE TO COLUMBUS, seNioii&;"iii(j;i:CiR'ii"vouR···oEsltiii Jim 2088. IN THE ADM. LOG. OR ON WAY TO OHIO 1018? I'D LIKE COMPANY. NEED 4 GAa for Air Force lor family. TO LEARN, TO GIVE, TO GROW, AND WISH CHRISTINE BYRNE HAPPY LIBRARY.IT HAS GREAT SENTIMEN­CALL NANCY 2n·5808 239-5873 TO LOVE WITH HOLY CROSS AS. Thank you St. Jude BIRTHDAY. CALL 5113. TAL VALUE, AND WOULD APPRECI· SOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP· ATE ITS RETURN. CONTACT DAVID NEED RIDE TO MINNESOTA (able to Need Two G.A. Tlx lor AIR FORCE. PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CON· Cheer up JANICE TERPINI Your HEY, LOST MY RADIO FROM OUR VERRINDER, HISTORY DEPT, 348 leave Frt. morning) HELP PAY FOR Pay Big Bucka. Call Joe Altar 8 p.m. TACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (7949); birthday Ia only !Iva daya away. and TAILGATE ON SATURDAY. PARTY 
O'SHAUGHNESSY. GAS STEVE HIPP, 283-2753. 287-4581 . JANE PITZ (5521 ). do we have thlnga planned lor youl TAPE TOO. CALL BOOEY 284-4138. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 9 
Interhall soccer action heats up as teams drive for playoffs 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
As the NVA Interhall Soccer League finishes Its regular season, the best teams prepare to battle for the championships. Every playoff team will be In a dogfight for the right to call Itself champion. 
In the North American Divi­sion, Fisher was the first team to clinch a playoff spot. It beat Cavanaugh In a dramatic shootout on Monday. It appeared Fisher had the game In hand, but Cavanaugh scored with only 14 seconds left In regulation time, to tie the score at 1-1. Fisher then won the game In the shootout. 
The other North American Dlvi­slon team In the playoffwill most likely be the winner of Holy Cross 'A' and Alumni. Both teams are .3-1 and will battle for the final spot today. 
Tom Schlesser, stopper for the Fisher squad, feels his troops will be ready to face any team. 
"Our defense has been awesome," Schlesser said. "We have done a goodjob at limiting our opponents' scoring oppur­tunltles. If we can combine our defense with an offense and mid­field, we will be unstoppable. We're confident we can take It to anybody." 
There Is a three-way logjam In the Western European Division for the two playoff spots. Zahm beat Dlllor:t II, 2-1, last week to raise Its record to 4-1. Flanner 

F.C. blanked Keenan 'B' to up Its record to 4-1 also. Both teams have a good chance of making the playoffs. 
Keenan 'A' plays Dillon II after fall break In a must win make-up game If It wants a chance at get­ting a playoff spot. 
The South American Division already has Its playoff partici­pants set. It will be the Off­Campus Hoobers at 5-0 and Grace 'A' at 4-1. Both teams have played extremely well In one of the toughest divisions. 
The Hoobers are last year's champs and one of the best teams In the league. They are undefeated and have given up only two goals all season. Led by forward Tommy Walker and halfback Steve Kranz, the Hoobers defeated the Grace 'A' team earlier this year. 
Grace 'A' Is also very strong and has Its eyes on a champion­ship. Sparked by goals from Dave Gullott and Tom Loftus, It toppled Morrissey 'A' by a 2-0 score In Its final regular-season game. Coach Jack Lee feels his team has a good chance at going all they way. 
"Our defense and fan support have gotten us this far," he says. "Now If we can score some more goals and get some strong play at midfield we could surprise a few people." 
The Eastern Europen Division Is dominated by the Off-Campus been scored on and are confi­dent they can win. 
The two teams fighting for the final playoff spot In this division are Stanford and Dillon I. Dillon has a crucial make-up game after break against Pangborn that It must win to get Into the playoffs. Stanford has had an up-and­down season. With a .3-2 record following a loss to the Off­Campus Splelphs last week. they can only hope that DIIIon I loses to catapult It Into the playoffs. 
Splelphs coach Dave Thompson feels sweeper Norb Knapke could play a crucial role In the playoffs. 
"We would like to get more goals than we've been getting." he says. Our ball control has 

Maxell XLII 90 $20/10
ltll~m:IJ~ Maxell XLIIS $25/10 Most CD"s $13.99 
TDK SA90 $20/10
Most LP"s & Cas. $6.98 

Electrical/ ElectronicI Computer Engineers... 
Computer Scientists ... Kathematicians... Language Specialists 
Latitude. That's what keeps a job invigorating -the chance to expand your interests, to take on unheard of challenges, to grow out as well as up. Well, that's precisely what the National Security Agency offers you as one of our people. 
NSA performs three all-important tasks. We analyze foreign communications. We safeguard America's vital communications. We set secur­ity standards for the government's mammoth computer systems. And we want you in ori the job. 
NSA offers choices upon choices. In assign­ments. In projects. In careers. But whatever your role, it's going to make a difference; it's going to produce immediate results. 
For an Electrical/ ElectronicI Computer Engineer options abound. In fact, the entire technological and functional spectrum are yours for exploration. Microprocessor im­plementation and programming, communica­tions systems, LSIIVLSI, CAD/CAM, systems architecture and optics. Among others. 
To the Computer Scientist, we deliver op­portunities across the frontier of finite state machine development. The applications realm: systems design and programs, applications and evaluation, and computer security research and design. 
Mathematicians research a variety of mathe­matical concepts including probability theory, statistics, Galois theory and group theory. 
Language Specialists in Slavic, Near Eastern and Asian languages meet the challenges of translation, transcription and analysis head on. Every day. 
Whatever your field, you can be certain to 
find many paths cleared for you. You'll also find 
a competitive salary, enticing benefits and an 
appealtng suburban location between two vital 
urban centers-Washington and Baltimore. 
For additional information, schedule an in­
terview with your College Placement Office. Or 
write to the National Security Agency. 
NSA will be on campus Nov. lDth interviewing graduating seniors. Limited summer positions available for those who have completedjunior yeEJ'. 
NATIONAL 
SECURITY 
AGENCY 
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
ATTN: M322 (AAM) 

Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000 
U.S. citizenship required for applicant and immediate family members. 
An equal opportunity employer. 


ND Apparel Headquarters LIQUIDATION SALE 
30/oOFF EVERYTING IN STORE 
(Except sweats) Complete outfitter for intramural sports 
FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES NIKE &ADIDAS NIKE Open Field (all white) $25.00 All CONVERSE basketball shoes $15.99 (Except The Weapon) 
SR 23 & Edison Rd. 

Mon.· Fri. 10 • 6 
(across from King's Cellar) Sat. 10·5 
277-7284 


211 E. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7799 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect itl 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00pm -2:00am 
~o(\ "o~ 
cotJ. $1.00 off entrance fee ~0" 

The Observer 

Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 10 
Griffin's return helps Irish defense 
Hurricanes remain on top 
6y fiRIC SCHeUeRMANN 
Sports Writer 
With the Notre Dame football 
team entering this year's cam­
paign with a shortage of defen­
sive linemen, the return of nose 
tackle Mike Grlffln after a year's 
absence because of 111]ury has 
been a welcome one. 
With the 1986 season five 
weeks old, Grlffln has returned 
to his starting nose-tackle slot 
and has contributed 1.3 solo 
tackles and nine assists while 
helping the Irish become more 
consistent up front on the defen­
sive line. 
Saturday against Pitt. Grlffln came up with the first blocked field goal for the Irish, blocking JeffVan Home's .36-yard attempt In the second quarter. It was the first block for the Irish since Brandy Wells did It last year against Michigan State. 
Grlffln broke his ankle during last fall's preseason drills, and had to sit out the entire 1985 season as well as spring practice. 
"It was sort of a freak accident during a drill with the offensive linemen," says Grlffln. "My foot got caught In the grass or some­thing, and I broke two bones In my ankle. I had to have seven screws and a plate put In during surgery." 
Griffin had been looking to continue In 1985 where he had left off In 1984, when he re­corded 40 tackles for the Irish as a sophomore. In fact. Grlffln 
JrillJ{ 
continuedfrompagel2 
system by suggesting that the 
Chicago Cubs play all post­
season games In St. Louis. Why 
hasn't anyone thought of this 
brilliant Idea earlier? 
football games are offlclated by video tapes Instead of men In 
striped shirts.
h1Juries Used to SOUrlcl drastic 
and painful, like a separated 
shoulder ~ a broken leg. Some­
how turf toe just does not cut it. 
In fact. some oftoday's remedies 
sound much more painful, such 
as arthroscopic surgery. 
It has been so long that Gerry 
Faust has finished his term here, 
and we know how long that 
seemed. 
But that could all change with a win on Saturday. After another tough loss against Pitt. the Irish are trying to show how well they can bounce back. Again. 
Of all the monkeys that have jumped on Notre Dame's back In the past few seasons, the failure to beat Air Force Is near the top of the list. 
It would be nice to slowly lighten the load, starting Satur­day. 
Correction 
Due to a reporting error, Fa­ther James Riehle was Incor­rectly quoted In a column In yesterday's Observer. It should have read, "(The foot­ball alumnus) said that the players (In 1970-71) never thought about having to flap their arms around to get the fans going." 
In the story on Interhall football, Morrissey beat Dil­lon, 6-0, on a pass from Joe Fuqua to Tom Hardiman In the second quarter of the game. 
Due to an editing error, Pete Gegen was Incorrectly Identi­fied as Club Comercolumnist. Gegen's position Is assistant sports editor. 

made a big Impact as a fresh­
man, playing In 10 of the team's 
11 games, and finishing second 
to linebacker Mike Kovaleski In 
tackles among first-year players. 
"I was looking for a good foot­ball program coming out of high school," he says, "and I felt It was Important to come to a place like Notre Dame where they'd push me to get an education. I didn't expect to get a chance to play much on defense as a fresh­man. I was just looking to help out on special teams or some­thing, but an 111]ury to (since graduated) John Autry opened the door for me. 
"I thought I had a pretty good freshman year. The only prob­lem was that I started the season at 254 pounds and I weighed only 22.3 pounds when I went home after the Liberty Bowl. I didn'tplay as well as I would have liked my sophomore year, though." 
The ankle 111]ury halted any plans for an Improved junior campaign, however, and pushed Grlffln's career back a year. 
"At first they thought I could come back In six months," he says, "but the bones didn't heal very well. That pushed the rehabilitation process back. forc­Ing me to miss spring practice. 
"Sitting out the season was the toughest part. I had a lot of friends that were seniors, and I had to watch all the away games here on TV. But there wasn't a lot I could do. I wore a portable bone-healing stimulator 18 hours a day, but besides that there wasn't much to do but walt." 
So walt he did, and when fall practice started under the new coaching staff -which Included defensive line coach Joe Yonto • he was ready. 
"I was a little rusty when I came back In the fall, but we had some long practices so I had a lot of time to work some of that rust off," Griffin says. 
Sophomore Marty Lippincott 
had played nose tackle during 
spring drills, so Griffin found 
himself In a fight to regain his 
old starting position. 
"Marty had played In the spring, and he started the Mic­higan game at nose tackle," says Griffin. "But they moved him to offense after that and I moved back up. 
"My ankle hasn't really been a problem at all. There was some pain after two-a-days during the preseason, but It hasn't bothered me since. I still don't think I've played all that well, though. I've just got to work a little harder. I think the defensive line as a whole has done a decent job, but we aren't yet where we have to be." 
With six tough games remain­Ing, Griffin and his Irish team­mates will be looking to close that gap. 

On the Viewpoint pages your opinions "add un." 
·r 

Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join 
in AP college football poll 
Associated Press 
Miami, Alabama, Nebraska and Michigan retained the top four spots In The Associated Press college football poll yes­terday, while North Carolina and Southern Methodist joined the Top Twenty for the first time this season. 
In addition, defending na­tional champion Oklahoma climbed from sixth place to fifth. 
Unbeaten Miami easily held on to the No. 1 spot for the third consecutive week. after routing West VIrginia 58-14 last Saturday for Its sixth vic­tory. The Hurricanes received 56 of 59 first-place votes and 1, 175 of a possible 1, 180 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and sportscasters. 
Alabama, 6-0, collected two first-place votes and 1,099 points after trouncing Memphis State .37-0. Nebras­ka, 5-0, which beat Oklahoma State.30-10, got 1,018polnts, and Michigan, 5-0, received 986 points after defeating Michigan State 27-7. 
North Carolina, 4-0·1, moved among the elite at No. 18, after outscoring Wake For­est 40-.30. SMU, 4-1, came In at No. 20, tied with Baylor, after upsetting the Bears 27­21. 
Oklahoma, 4-1, moved from sixth to fifth with 946 points after a 47-12 rout over Texas. 
Penn State, 5-0, received the other first-place vote, but dropped from fifth to sixth with 892 points after having to rally to beat Cincinnati 2.3­17. 
Auburn, 5-0, remained No. 7 with 861 points after beating Vanderbilt .31-9, but Arkansas and Southern California, ranked eighth and ninth last week. suffered their first set­backs of the season and dropped Into the Second Ten. 
Iowa, 5-0, beat Wisconsin 1 7-6 and vaulted from lOth place to eighth. 

······················:
: .LIVE AT EDDIE'S RESTAURANT e 
: (On Ironwood near Edison) : 
: DANKEVSAW:
• ~. 
: Acoustic Guitar/Vocals : 
• \ • 
e WEDNESDAY, e • • \ OCTOBER 15, 22, 29 •• 
.,_~the growing number of people who feel their • 8:00-10:00 pm • 
(iiiiii:t:ho::ugbts and opinions do make a differ~e~nc=:e:i.:;;il••••• e ••e e e •·•e ••e e e •• 




~~~4tll~......................................................wed•n•e•s•da•y•'•O•c•ro•b•e•r•l•~•l•9•8•6•,•··p•ag.e..
l•l 

Campus 
12:10-1 :00 p.m.: Closed Meeting ofAlcoholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
.3:.30 p.m.: Field Hockey, ND vs Michigan State, cartler Field 
.3:.30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse, Nota Bene Wordprocessing, Part 2, limit 7, 108 Computing Center. Free and open to the public. To register call Betty at 2.39-5604 
4:00-6:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Public Lec­ture "Strategic Choice Models of Latin Amer­Ican Politics," by David Collier, Kellog Fellow, 222 Hayes-Healy 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Quantum Electrodynamics: 19.38-1959, An Historical Perspective," by Dr. Silvan S. Schweber, Bran­deis University, 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
7:00p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, "His Girl Friday," 1940, BW, 95 minutes, Howard Hawks, USA O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE 
Wednesday Oct 15 Engineering Auditorium Thursday Oct 16 7:00,9:15, 11:30 
Nofood ordrink permitted in Auditorium 
• ~ ,r. ..ll -~ ,._ 4 ""' ' .-• II • •· •' ........ • •••• a~ a<-;o.• ~-• • • • • • • • • • • • •. • '• 'I ..'1. <-.,.._,. 
----------~------~ 
far Side Gary Larson 

7:15-8:.30 p.m.: Fellowship meeting, the Spir­itual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan-Stanford Chapeloicism," by Rev. Thomas F. O'Meara, 
0.P., Center for Continuing Education Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Oven Fried Chicken Parmigiana Individual Beef Pot Pie Seafood Cantonese Hot Open Faced Cheese Sub 
Saint Mary's 

Philadelphia Steak Sandwich Baked Fish with Sweet & Sour Sauce Eggplant Parmesan 
Deli Bar 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 Eros  
5 Old man: Ger.  
9 Wisecrack  
13 Pompeii's  
nemesis  
14 Shipshape  
15 Relating to  
an arm bone  
17 Insect  
19 Tidal bore  
20 Kind of cat  
21 Not excessive  
23 Lair  
25 Shortly  
26-room  
29 Omega's cousin  
31 Seized  
35 Yoked animals  
37 Sister  
39 Sought congers 41 Puccini opera  
45 Author of  
"Republic"  
46 Roofing stuff  
47 Donate  
48 Pledged things  
51 Bridge term 10/15/86 
53 Rorem or  
Sparks  
54 Aspiration  9 Hive VIP  
56 12 doz.  1 0 Resembling:  
58 Mongrel  suff.  
animals  11 Actress  
63 1 00-eyed giant  Swenson  
67 Macaw  12 Go separate  
68 Part of an  ways  
hourglass  16 Female ruff  
figure  18 Court crier's  
70 Reef material  word  
71 Noble lt.  22 Grass genus  
family  24 Hawaiian goose  
72 Corner  26 Cavort  
73 Healthy  27 Praise highly  
74-Arnaz  28 Tree of  
75 Kind of sch.  Lebanon  
30 Knight  
DOWN  32 Ocean hazard  
1 "Mash" actor  33 Pixyish  10/15/86  
2 Earthy deposit 3 Track shape 4 Stormed 5 Jillian of TV 6 Bank or field  34 Dig deeply 36 Alliance letters 38 Maniac 40 Colored  49 Fireplace shelf 50 Ejected 52 Depict 55 Obliterate  60 Unusual 61 Soviet range 62 Fast fliers 64 Maiden 65 Certain  
7 Legends 8 Certain lin· gulstic form  42 Closet item 43 Label 44 Math. branch  57 Make a speech 58 Pouch 59 Boast  plaintiff 66 Pipe part 69 Can. prov.  


j 
I I 
S~orts 

Red Sox even series with 10-4 win 
Associated Press strike from the pennant Sunday, game open by scoring five times 
played for the third straight In the third, two on first baseman 
BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox. game without rookie first Bobby Grlch's throwing error. 
behind Dennis "Oil Can" Boyd's baseman Wally Joyner. It has not Marty Barrett added three hits 
gutty pitching and Spike Owen's been determined whether for the Red Sox. who totaled 16 
four hits, charged past the Call· Joyner, batting .455 In the In all and pinned the loss on Kirk 
fomla Angels 10-4 last night, playoffs before being hospi­McCaskill. 
tying the American League talized with a bacterial Infection 
playoffs and setting up adecisive In his lower right leg, will be The fidgety Boyd, meanwhile, 
seventh game. available for Game 7. settled down from his shaky start 
and breezed through the middle 

By winning Game 6, the Red The Angels started Game 6 like Innings. His only blemish after 
Sox overcame a :3·1 deficit in the they did not need Joyner, taking his first-Inning troubles was a 
best-of-seven series and put a 2-0 lead in the first inning on solo home run by Brian Downing 
themselves In the position they consecutive RBI doubles by In the seventh, and he left the 
wanted. Roger Clemens, Bos­Reggie Jackson and Doug game after seven Innings to a 
ton's ace right-hander and the DeCinces. California went on to thunderous roar of "Oil Can, Oil 
most dominant pitcher In load the bases and seemed to Can." 
baseball this season, will start be one batter away from knock­
Game 7 tonight, opposed by left­ing out Boyd before being over­Boyd pitched nine-hit ball over 
hander John Candelaria. hauled by the Boston express. seven Innings, striking out five 
The deciding game will mark and walking one. 
yet another chance for the Angels A packed crowd of:32,998, not The Angels added another run 
to win the first pennant In their including fans wedged on top of In the eighth off Bob Stanley 
26-year history and for Manager nearby rooftops and clinging to when Dick Schofield singled and 
Gene Mauch to reach his first high-rise signs above Fenway later trotted home on Owen's 
World Series in 25 years. Park. watched Boston tie It in the throwing error from shortstop, 
California, which was one bottom of the first and break the but the run was meaningless. 
Carter's 12th-inning hit lifts Mets 
Associated Press to Carter, who stayed on the field As Carter rounded first base, 
well after the game, waving to he raised both hands, the futility 
NEW YORK -Gary Carter broke fans and raising his hands In vic-over, and his teammates ran and 
out of a 1-for-21 slump with a tory. ' embraced him. 
run-scoring single in the 12th in­Nolan Ryan of Houston and Bob Ojeda, 18-5, the Mets' 
ning that gave the New York Mets Dwight Gooden of the Mets Game 2 winner, will face the 
a 2-1 victory over the Houston dueled Into extra Innings, Ryan Game :3 loser for Houston, Bob 
Astros yesterday and moved giving up only two hits as the Knepper, 17-12, In Game 6. 
them within a game of their third Astros outhlt the Mets 9-4 for the Houston could have won the 
National League pennant. game. game In regulation had it not 
The game-winning hit gave the When Wally Backman singled been for a hotly-disputed 
Mets a :3-2 lead in games lp the off the glove of third baseman double-play call that cost them . best-of-seven playoff against Denny Walling with one out In a second-inning run. 
Houston and sent the series back the 12th, It was only the third hit The Mets turned one other 
to the Astrodome for Games 6 of the game for New York. double play, started by left 
and 7. Kerfeld tried to pick Backman fielder Mookle Wilson, that also 
Carter, confused and off first, but his throw was wild saved a potential Houston run. 
distressed by his lack of produc­for an error and Backman went The Astros scored their only 
tion after a 105-RBI season, had to second. The Astros then run offGooden In the fifth Inning 
only a double In Game 2 and had walked Keith Hernandez Inten­on a ground ball by Bill Doran 
gone hitless in his first four at tionally, bringing up Carter. that well could have been a 
bats this time, before singling The count went to 2-and-0 on double play. 
home the winning run off Hous­Carter, before Astros pitching Darryl Strawberry tied the 
ton reliever Charlie Kerfeld. coach Les Moss came out to talk score for the Mets with a fifth­
Jesse Orosco pitched two hit­with Kerfeld. Inning homer, his second of the 
less innings for his second vic­Kerfeld got back to :3-and-2, series. 
tory In relief In this series. and Carter fouled offtwo pitches, Ryan was gone after nine in­
Orosco now has worked five before driving a clean single up nings, and Gooden departed 
scoreless innings in the playoffs. the middle that scored Backman after 10, his longest stint in the 
This game, however, belonged easily. major leagues. 
.. 

AP Photo Dave Stapleton and the Boston Red Sox had plenty to cheer about last night, as they forced a seventh game in the American League Championship series by downing California, 10-4. Baseball playoff stories appear at left. 
Notre Dame field hockey plays host to Michigan State 
By MOLLY MAHONEY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team will try to gain Its fifth vic­tory today as It hosts the Mic­higan State Spartans. 
The Irish have improved their record to 4-5 and steadily are gaining momentum as they prepare to face the Division I Spartans, who stand :3-8-1 over­all and 1-4-1 In the Big 10. 
Coach Jill Lindenfeld is pleased with the team's perfor­mance thus far. 
"The whole team is really start­ing to gel and play well to-
Wednesday, October 15, 1986, -page 12 
gether," she said. "They've kept their concentration on the field and played very well mentally. We've had a good scoring attack. especially from my three cap­tains in the forward line." 
Senior tri-captains Corinne DIGiacomo, Meg McGlinn and Mary Wagner have helped the Irish develop a physical style of play that has made the defense more aggressive in getting to the ball and denyingthe offense pos­session. 
To be successful, Notre Dame will have to control Michigan 
see IRISH, page 8 

Air Force jinx_ has lasted a long time 
Notre Dame has not beaten the Air Force Academy In a long time. A long, long time. 
The Irish beat the Falcons in 1981 by a :35-7 score. Since that game, the Falcons have made life miserable for the Blue and Gold. 
In 1982, It was the Falcons winning 30-17 at Colorado Springs. Notre Dame Stadium was the sight ofAir Force victories in 198:3 (2:3-22) and 1984 (21-7), and last year the Irish were beaten on the Falcons' home turf again, 21-15. 
That's four straight victories for Air Force folks, if you're scoring along with us at home. 
Only two teams have ever beaten the Irish in five straight seasons-Michigan State, from 1959 to 196:3, and USC, from 1978 to 1982. 
It sounds all right to lose to Michigan State or USC five times in a row, but not Air Force. Alumni often remember fondly the big games against Michigan State and especially USC. Many of those games had possible national championships and major bowl­game Invitations to add to their importance. 
How many Notre Dame-Air Force games have had such ramifications? 
Air Force has a good squad this year. Many of its teams In the past four years have been excellent squads as well. But that's not the point. Air Force Is not supposed to beat us. They have a coach named Fisher DeBerry, for Pete's sake. 
Even though the Falcons are 5-l, and the Irish only 1-4, Notre Dame is being tabbed a nine-and-a­half-point favorite. That Is typical of the odds of past games. No matter how well Air Force Is doing and 

no matter how bad the Irish are, Notre Dame Is ex­pected to win. That's what makes this whole deal more frustrat­ing. 
Four straight losses to teams that are good, yet should be beaten, is a lot of losses. And a long time. 
A lot of things have changed in four years that put 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

some perspective on how long it has been since the Irish have beaten the Falcons. Notre Dame has changed football coaches, which Is always a monumental occasion. 
The Irish have played a home game in a domed stadium, perish the thought, and even graced the gridiron in Hawaii. 
Indianapolis even got a professional football team, well kind of. At least they still run a good race there. 
George Steinbrenner hired Lou Pinella last year and has re-hired him for this year. Time mellows all, I guess. . The Boston Red Sox actually held onto a lead to win the American League East. And the Cleveland Indians finished higher than sixth. 
Rehabilitation no longer refers to injuries In most sports stories. , 
"The Incredible Hulk" has gone from a comic-book character to a television series to a professional wrestler to a cartoon character. 
Point-shaving returned to the news, as did running up the score on departing coaches. 
A spring football league has come and gone, and another one is preparing to launch an Ill-fated at­tempt to win the out-of-season activity award cur­rently held by Christmas in July celebrations. 
It has been so long since Notre Dame beat Air Force that Dave Duerson has gone from a Notre Dame captain to an NFL pro-bowler. 
Assistant coaches, not only head coaches, are now subject to rides off the field atop their players' shoulders after Super Bowl victories. 
Quarterbacks used to be named Bobby, George, Johnny and Sonny. Now we have guys like Boomer and Bubby. 
The Toronto Blue Jays won the American League East. When did they stop beingjust another harmless expansion team? At least the Seattle Mariners give us the feeling that things haven't changed so much. 
Nicknames have changed from tranquil handles .such as "Boog" and "Scooter" to appliances and pe­troleum containers . 
The National League has changed its boring policy of having its division winners play post-season games at home and changed to a more exciting 
see JINX, page 10 

. . 


