King, page 6-7 

VOL XX, NO. 72 MONDAY, JANUARY 20 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Rebel troops may control South Yemen in civil war 
AMoclated Pn:INI SOUTH YEMEN Palestinian forces heading for Aden to try to ar­range a cease-fire were barred from crossing this frontier post yesterday, and indications were that rebel 
troops may have seized control of South Yemen in this Marxist country's civil war. 
Diplomatic sources based along the Persian Gulf said yesterday there were signs that President Ali Nasser Mohammed had been ousted, basing their assessment on reports received from their Aden missions and a transmission on the govern­ment radio wave length describing the president as "Irresponsible." 
But the British Broadcasting Corp. and an Israeli tdevision monitor said Mohammed was on his way back to the capital, Aden, after fleeing to Et­hiopia Saturday. 
A radio station which said it was tran.~mitting from Aden on behalf of an unidentified new leadership broadcast a communique yesterday indicating that rebels had ousted Mohammed after a week of fighting, a news report said. 
Frontier guards at Quraish Border Post said fighting "is stiU continu­ing" in the capital. 
"It is dangerous to proceed fur­ther because of the fighting, and anyway, nobody Is allowed through," said the officer In charge of the post, who refused to give his name. 
Fighting has shut down interna­tional cnmmunicatons with South Yemen and there has been no way to verify most reports. Diplomats in the region said the situation appeared ambiguous. 


Tempting tryouts 
Senior Mike Andrews, left, Iowa State Universty Professor Gregg Henry, middle, ana law student Amy Ronayne, right, audi· tion for spots in the Notre Dame/St. Mary's Theatre's upcoming production, The Tempest. Auditions were bela Saturday In Was· hlngton Hall. Henry, a professional actor, Is only helping out and will not appear In the play, scheduled for late February. 

Three finalists named in Saint Mary's search for new president 
BySCOTI BEARBY 

• AssistantNews Editor 
The search for a new Saint Mary's president is In Its final stages after the College's search committee last week named three finalists for the post, according to Dorothy Feigl, ac­ting vice president and dean of faculty at Saint Mary's. 
William Hickey, acting president at Saint Mary's; Kathleen Ashe, assis­tant to the president at Rosary Col· lege in Illinois; and Bridget Puzon, acting dean of the college at Vir­ginia's Hollins College remain in the running for the college presidency, said Feigl, who is spokeswoman for the search committee. 
The finalists were chosen from a pool of 124 applicants, Feigl said. 
The three candidates are in the process ofvisiting the campus for in­teraction with students, faculty, ad­ministrators and the Sisters of the Holy Cross. These visits will be com· pleted this week, at which time the groups will complete evaluations on the candidates, according to Feigl. 
Feigl said the candidates will be coming to campus in order to give the search committee some addi­tional Input from the Saint Mary's community before preparing a report for the Board of Regents. At the end of January, the board wlll have the opportunity to interview the candidates and send its recom­mendations to the Executive Governing Board ofthe College. 
Feigl said she expects the Ex· ecutive Governing Board, composed of members of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, to make the ul­timate decision on the new presi­dent "sometime In February." 
The process of finding a new president began last April when the search committee, composed of parents, students, alumnae, Board of Regents members and ad­ministrators, was formed. Feigl said the committee's unveiling of the three finalists marks "the most dis­tinctive step besides the final selec­tion," since preliminary work remained confidential. 
A large number of sources were approached to form the original pool of candidates, said Felgl. She added that the sources consisted ofa "wide range" ofsources from within and outside the College. 
Specifically, the committee sought suggestions from various members of the Saint Mary's com­munity and contacted heads of col· leges similar to Saint Mary's, as well as heads of religious orders. The presidential opening was also ad· vertised in the Chronicle of Higher Education and other publications. 
Feigl said she thinks the three finalists are "the best candidates" among the pool of applicants. Sum­ming up the type of individual the committee was looking for as presl· dent, Feigl said it was looking for the best person for Saint Mary's at this point in its history and one who can best "support the mission ofthe Col­lege." 
Feigl credits the success of the search to the members of the com­mittee. "Each of the members took their responsibilities seriously. They were extremely thorough and con­scientious throughout the search," she said. 



Tutu, rock stars honor King holiday nationally 
Harry Belafonte and Bill Cosby as simulcast a two-ininute excerpt of South Africa Action Group, is marched in front of the state co-hosts. King's "I have a Dream" speech, to aimed at showing support for Capitol in Raleigh on Saturday, and 
South African Archbishop Des­Belafonte, who is also chairman be followed by noon church bell American and South African blacks held a rally In front of a Con­mond Tutu joined yesterday in of the Martin Luther King New ringing throughout the state. in their struggle for civil rights. federate monument. events honoring Martin Luther York State Holiday Commission, Students at Lewis and Clark Col· Some people protested the idea Ku Klux Klansmen held a parade King Jr. as Americans of all races said the idea for the linked perfor­lege in Portland, Ore., planned to ofa national holiday for King. and cross-burning Saturday at rC"membered the slain civil rights mances in three cities came from begin a five-day fast to protest race Members of North Carolina's Pulaski, Tenn., where the original leader on the eve of the first na­Stevie Wonder, a longtime discrimination. The fast, White Patriot Party and other Klan was formed in 1865. tional holiday marking his birth. proponent ofa national holiday for sponsored by the private college's white supremacist groups 
A candlelight memorial service King. was planned last night at King's In addition to that program, tomb In Atlanta, in advance of Washington was to hold its 17th 

ND, South Bend join for local King events 
today's official holiday. His widow, city observance of King's birthday. 

ByBUD LUEPKE Cultural Arts Commission. dream into reality," MuhammedCoretta Scott King, was to place a King's actual birthday was Jan. 15, StaffReporter From I 0 a.m. to 4 p.m. today the said.
wreath at the tomb today. but today was set as the federal esc is offering birthday cake and Opening ceremonies, at whichTutu was among those holiday. 

The first annual national holiday reflective readings. Tomorrow and South Bend Mayor Roger Parentscheduled to participate yesterday In Philadelphia, the city and honoring Martin Luther King Jr. Thursday at 7 and 9 p.m. the esc will be present, begin at 9:30 a.m.
In an international conference in Jackson's People United to Serve will meet with limited on-campus wlll feature the film "King, in the Century Center Foyer andopposition to South Africa's apar­Humanity planned a celebration of celebrations as campus organizers Montgomery to Memphis." will be followed by a televisedtheid system at Atlanta's Ebenezer brotherhood and freedom. In pool their efforts with those of the A bus will leave from the CSC at panel talk show highlighting theBaptist Church, where King was previous years, the city had South Bend community. noon and 3:30p.m. today for the meaning of the day.

pastor. He also spoke earlier at sponsored a prayer breakfast in Gospel Choir President Rod Century Center where most ofEbenezC"r's Sunday morning honor of King and PUSH held an Brown said this collaborative ef­South Bend's activities are taking From 10:30 to 11:45 a.m. theservice. separate ecumenical service. 

fort was chosen for fear that place. first of five seminars on King's life Today's scheduled observances In South Carolina, Gov. Dick separately organized events at The events of the day, titled and relevant contemporary Issuesincluded "Uving the Dream," a Riley, Sen. Ernest Hollings, NAACP both the Century Center and on "Called to Uve the Dream," will will take place in the Centurymusical celebration by several top national President William Gibson campus would detract from each. commemorate King's whole life Center.
recording stars and others in Was­and other officials were to gather rather than any one aspect, accord· "The aim is to isolate a specialhington, New York City and At· on the grounds ofthe Statehouse in The Center for Social Concerns ing to Gla<Jys Muhammed, who or· contribution of Dr. King's life inlanta. Performers will include such Columbia for speeches and song is handling most of the Martin Lut­ganized the day's events. each seminar and explore thepeople' as Bob Dylan, Joan Baez, honoring King. 

her King Day celebrations for "lt will be a day of peace on relevance of those· contributionsQuincy Jones, the Rev. Jesse Jack­Elsewhere, radio stations Notre Dame students, said Martin which to remember Martin Luther son, Patti Labelle and more, with throughout Rhode Island agreed to see KING, page 3Rodgers, co-president of the Black King Jr. and hopefully to bring his 


The Observer Monday,January 20, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 

The derailment of an Amtrak train carrying about 190 passengers left only minor injuries and one engine on fire, officials said. The Coast Starlight, travelling from Los Angeles to Seattle, derailed south of Tacoma, Wash. at about 4:30 p.m. yester­day.-AP 
Chinese singing families are me stars of a new Chinese game show started by a state-run Shanghai television sta­tion. Singing famllles compete for prizes on "Family Singing Con­test," which is attracting more Shanghai viewers than the televised broadcast ofthe 1984 Olympic Games, the official news agency Xin­hua quoted a television official as saying. The report said 64 families have entered the contest, in which they must sing two songs, either Chinese or foreign. The top 16 families will win prizes. -AP 
Of Interest 

SaintjosephCounty Right to Ufe, Inc. is sponsoring its third annual Silent Memorial Procession from noon to 1 p.m. on Wednesday. The procession will take place on the sidewalk in front ofthe Women's P;~vilion at 425 N. St. Louis Boulevard. In each ofthe two previous years, more than 200 people have participated in this march, which coincides with the date ofthe Roe vs. Wade Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion on demand. -The Observer 
Director of Admissions for the University of Chicago Early Entry Program for the MBA will meet with interested students today at 4:20 p.m. in 304 Haggar College Center. The meeting is open to all Saint Mary's juniors, sophomores or freshmen. All majors are eligible for the program. -Tbe Observer 
Pax Christi will sponsor a prayer for peace tonight at 10 at the Grotto. -The Observer 
Indiana limestone columns will begin arriving on campus, weather permitting, at approximately 2 this afternoon. The columns for the Notre Dame War Memorial Fountain are scheduled to be put in place tomorrow. Each column is 20 feet high and five feet square and will be topped by a 10-foot limestone piece. Other sections will arrive each Monday, Wednesday and Friday until Feb. 7. Completion is planned for mid-May. -The Observer 
A Kellogg Institute brown bag seminar will be held tomorrow in room 131 in Decio Hall. The speaker is Elena Alvarez, a faculty fellow of the Kellogg Institute. Her topic will be "Government Policies and the Persistence ofRural Poverty in Peru." 
-Tbe Observer 

American Catholics will have a unique opportunity to question the leader of the National Conference on Catholic Bis­hops (NCCB) in a teleconference scheduled tonight from the studios ofWNDU-lV. Bishop James Malone ofYoungstown, Ohio, president of the NCCB, and three members of the U.S. Catholic Bis­hops National Advisory Council will discuss the recent Extraordi­nary Synod in Rome and answer called-in questions from viewers. The two-hour program will begin at 8 p.m. with a 30-minute videotaped report on the Synod, which was called to assess the state of the Church 20 years after the Second Vatican Council. The teleconference is sponsored by Notre Dame. Students can watch the teleconference in the auditorium of the Center for Continuing 
Education, where there also will be phones.. The Observer 

Weather 

Winter is back. Becoming partly cloudy today, with a high in the upper 30s. Cloudy tonight with a low in the upper 20s. Continued cloudiness tomorrow with a high of 40.-AP 
Design Editor ........................ Kathy Huston Features Copy Editor............... Tim Adams 
Design Assistant............ Mark Mclaughlin Features Layout............. Mark Mclaughlin 
Typesetters ...................................Tom Small ND Day Editor ......................Ellyn Mastako 
Mary Ellc:n Harrington SMC Day Editor ............ Debbie Buchanan 
NewsEditor .................... Keith Harrisonjr. 

Copy Editor...............................Ala Pdtzc:r AdDesign.................................]oan Wrappc: 
Sports Copy Editor ......... Dennis Corrigan Jesse Pc:sta 
VIewpoint Copy Editor.......andy Rauck· Typists ......................................Tess Guarino 
horst Jodi Shc:Uenbarger ~~.f!!>lnt Layout................ Maria Groner Photographer ..................... Hannc:s Hacker 
lbe Obeerver (LISPS W9 2·-tOOO) is publishc:d Monday through Friday c:xcept during c:xam and vacation pc:riods. lbeObeerver is published by the studc:ms ofthe llnivc:rsil,­of Notre: Dame: and Saini Mary's College:. Subscriptions may be: purchasc:d for 130 pc:r yc:ar ( 1..!0 pc:r sc:mescer) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
-tM~6. 

lbe Obeerver is a membc:r of lbe Associated Preas. All reproduction rights are ..,.....<:d. 

Chicago Superbowl mania becomes too much to Bear 
I used to think that I might someday like to live in 
Chicago. Now I realize it would never work. 
It wasn't the cold, the Midwest or the politics that 
disillusioned me. No, what convinced me I would never 
make it in the Windy City is the latest four-letter word 
cursing the nation: BEAR 
It's worse than Grizzly Adams. Everywhere you turn, 
there are Bear hats, Bear signs, Bear songs. Before the 
NFC Championship game, Chicago fans were treated to 
a half-hour show focusing on the greatest symbol of 
Bear·hype titled "FRIDGE: The legend grows." 
But the Bears do not limit themselves to terrorizing 
Chicago. The "Superbowl Shuffle" is a popular an­
noyance on the South Bend airwaves, and it apparently 
has made itself heard all the way to Washington D.C. 
National sports broadcasts have introduced us to Wil­
liam Perry's mother, and the Fridge himselfcan be seen 
on a McDonald's commercial near you. Even our school 
mascot, the symbol of the Fighting Irish, wore a ·refrigerator with the num-{ 
ber 72 (William "The .--=::::::::=:::;:-:::=== other fans because Chicago Refrigerator" Perry's num­teams are like no other ber) at Saturday's basketball teams. Chicago fans thrive game. on disappointment. For There seems to be no es­years, these teams will sit caping Bear-mania. latent at the bottom of their I don't deny that the Bears respective divisions, and are a good team, nor do I every year Chicago fans sup· begrudge Bear fans the right port them, hoping against 
to cheer their team on to a hope that they will climb Superbowl victory. Under out ofthe cellar. ordinary circumstances, I When these teams finally might even be inclined to enjoy some degree of 
wish them luck. But after a success, their long-suffering long season of Bear· fans lose all touch with saturation, the mere men­reality. They feel obliged to tion ofthe Bears invokes the talk, brag and gloat about same reaction as Mary Lou their teams at every hint of Retton piping, "Energize an opportunity. They plan 
me." 
I don't believe mine is an isolated case. The over· hype of the Superbowl·bound Bears polarizes football fans and casual television viewers throughout the country into two camps. Those who like the Bears become Bear-maniacs: Those who dislike the Bears or are indilferent toward them become Bear-haters. There is no middle ground. 
Given the two-hour distance between South Bend and Chicago and the geographical diversity of Notre Dame students, it is possible for Bear-haters to survive at Notre Dame. As one approaches Chicago, however, the territory becomes more dangerous. Soon, there remain only Bear-maniacs and those who have never heard of football. The Bear-hater, no doubt, would be subject to brutal discrimination, social alienation and physical abuse. 
OK, maybe the Bear-hater could survive winter in Chicago by avoiding all discussions concerningfootball and occasionally humming a bar or two of the 
for 

na1ksto you... 
AU.

it works... 
OFUS 

Unltadway
• 

THE STUDENT SAVER GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE 

Ridiculously low prices on school supplies and health and beauty aids!! 
Everything must go I 
Wednesday January 22 Noon until everything is sold Basement of the LaFortune 

(enter through the south or .west d 





Amy Stephan 
Managing Editor 
"Superbowl Shuffle" on his way to work. Spring, however, offers no asylum. In Chicago, the warmer months are stalked by the Bears' younger brother, the Cubs. And those who care to remember the summer of I984 will attest that Cub-mania (or Cubbie-mania, as more affectionate fans like to call it) is at least as annoy­ing as Bear-hype. 
In any other city, it may be possible to live a normal life and still hate that city's professional teams. Not so in Chicago. 
Chicago fans are like no 

Superbowl and World Series victory parties before the season is halffinished. Worst ofall, they force their teams down the throat ofanyone foolish enough to open his mouth while standing near a Chicago fan. 
All this enthusiasm only serves to make Chicago fans look more foolish when their bubble inevitably pops. Their teams, no matter how great they look throughout the season, almost always choke when it comes down to the wire. And there are always plenty of Chicago-team haters around to bask in their pre-loss brags. 
But none of this phases Chicago fans. Despite their disappointment, they obstinately support their teams, somehow summoning fresh optimism for each new season. 
Chicago fans may well be the best fans in the nation. I am not, however, going to admit that in my column. 
The Observer Monday, January 20, 1986-page 3 





Army paid 10 times available rate for shipment of European goods 
WASHINGTON -The Army paid more than 10 times the lowest rate to ship household goods of soldiers from West Germany to Washington because of a mistake by military clerks, according to computer records and federal officials. 
Records show that the Army paid more than $565,900 for 46 ship­ments from Frankfurt, West Ger­many between May 1984 and June 1985. The shipments could have cost $51,300 if they were made through the most inexpensive com­panies. 
"It looks like a booking clerk (in Frankfurt) made a mistake," said Col. George Kaine, public Information officer for the Army's Military Traffic Management Command in Baileys Crossroads, Va. 
The Army spokesman said the problem occurred because the per­sonnel in West Germany were un­familiar with the rate structure for shipping to the Washington area, 
which  includes  installations  in  
nearby northern Vi rginia.  
Kaine  said  the  Army  has  no  

evidence that the problem went beyond Frankfurt-to-Washington 
shipments, adding, "We don't see any worldwide problem." 
Kaine said the foulup was "brought to our attention" last Oc­tober by General Services Ad­ministration auditors. He said the Army acted immediatley to notify its shipping personnel worldwide of the correct rates for the District of Columbia area. "We have put a stop to it," he said. 
Joseph Cosimano, an official in the General Services Administration's Office ofTransportation Audits, con­firmed the error. He said it was brought to the attention ofhis office by Army officials in West Germany. 
The traffic management com­mand is responsible for 800,000 per­sonal property shipments a year. 
The companies that arrange the moves are called freight forwarders. They have no trucks, ships or planes, but coordinate the moves with local moving firms. The Frankfurt-to­Washington shipments were handled under a category that utilizes local movers at each end and Air Force planes over water. 
One company official, explaining the rate system, said forwarders purposely charge high rates in cer­tain areas because they don't want the business In those localities. 
Ken Armstrong, chief executive officer ofSound Forwarders, said the selection of his Bothell, Wash., firm to handle high-cost moves "puzzled me so much" that he called his data processing service: to verify that his copy of the rate list for Washington 
D.C. was correct. 
"You know where you stand in relation to other companies," Armstrong said. "A low rate tells them (the Army) that we want to do business In that area. Anything way out of line tells them we don't want business In that area. 
"But we're required to handle all shipments tendered to us. If you turn a shipment back, they would suspend us for non-fulfillment ofour contract. 
Kaine said the error occurred be· cause the shipping rates for the Dis­trict of Columbia area Include military installations in nearby Vir­ginia. 
One or more clerks in Frankfurt, seeing a northern Virginia destina­tion for the shipment, assumed that the Virginia rates would apply and contacted a company that had low rates for that state. 

Soviets make plea for disarmament 
Associated Press The appeal through the officW 
news agency Tass kept up Moscow's 

MOSCOW -The Soviet Parliament unrelenting publicity for the urged the U.S. Congress yesterday to proposal and appeared to be part of accept the new Kremlin disarma­the Kremlin etfort to win Americans ment plan as "the only reasonable and others over to the plan. and feasible alternative to nuclear "The time has come to put an end weapons" and renewed a plea that to the nuclear arms race madness the United States halt nuclear tests. . . . . The nuclear threat should be 

Living the Rock 'n Roll Oreana 
A one man play that traces the life of a rock star &om his rebeUious youth to his mellowed old age. 
Saturday, February 1 
8:00 at Washington Hall 
Tickets on sale at the ticket stub and at the door for $3.00 
Student Activities Board 
... 
I 

:1 Amtrak ~==== 
I ~ I I 
1 FREE TICKET DELIVERY & I PACKAGE EXPRESS PICK UP 
I FOR ALL NO & SMC STUDENTS & FACULTY 
I I SPRING BREAK PACKAGES/SKI PACKAGES
I 

GROUP DISCOUNTS/WEEKEND PACKAGES 
I I CALL A FRIEND AT AMTRAKI KEN, AL, OR MARV 
I 

I 11 AM-7 PM DAILY 2702 W. WASHINGTON 
I 
I1
I I I 
1 1 I 
I 
ellminated for good," the l,SOO­member Supreme Soviet, or national parliament, told Congress. 
The Soviet press yesterday said early U.S. reaction did not raise hopes for quick progress and stressed that a space weapons ban is essential to the plan. 



King 
continuedfrom page I 
today," said Frederick Wright, 
professor of black studies at Notre 
Dame. 
Wright organized the seminars 
and his department is co· 
sponsoring the event. 
Titled "Great People of Peace," the first seminar will examine, among other topics, how King would stand today on the South African issue. Other seminars wiU discuss the impact of contem­porary economic policies on black families, the state of the black Church today, and the last seminar at 5:15p.m., "Black Entrepreneur-· ships," features a panel of minority businessmen who will discuss their problems and successes in the business world. 

Wright described the overall purpose of the: seminars as endors· ing "progressive change through non-violent mea~." 
Phone 233-4957 

1 ~--------~ 
1 
I 


SPRING BREAK 
II 
Help us sponsor your 
1I 
Ft Lauderdale, Daytona or Key West trip and you go for free!
I I
I 

= 

1800) 368-2006 TOU. FIU:t-:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The Observer Monday, January 20, 1986-page 4 



MIA talks in Laos produce little new information 
Associated Press 
VIENTIANE, LAOS -The parting toasts were cordial, but little new information emerged from talks between a U.S. congressional delegation and uotian officials yesterday on the issue of 556 Americans still missing in action in uos from the Vietnam War, which ended in 1975. 
After the talks, all four U.S. law­makers said in interviews that the uotian government rejects the possibility of Americans entering Laos to conduct joint investiga­tions ofpossible sightings ofliving Americans. 
The lawmakers, representing the Senate and House of Representatives veterans affairs committees, met for two hours with Soubanh Sritthirath, the vice minister offoreign affairs, and then for less than an hour with Foreign Minister Phoun Sipaseut. 
The delegation was winding up a visit to the Philippines, Vietnam, Thailand and Laos. It was led by Sen. Frank Murkowski, R-Alaska, accompanied by Sen. Dennis DeConcini, D-Ariz., Rep. Bob McEwen, R-Ohio, and Rep. Mic­hael Bilirakis;· R-Fla. Murkowski is chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. 

Since the war ended, 806 "live sightings'' of Americans in Indoc­hina have been reponed, mostly by refugees, according to U.S. government records. Investiga­tions have ruled out the possibility of living Americans in all but 95 reports, including 13 reported live sightings in Laos, U.S. oiDcials say. 
A total of 2,441 Americans are still listed as missing in action from the Indochina conflict, 556 of them in Laos, 88 in Cambodia, and 1,797 in Vietnam. 
Murkowski said he and his col­leagues pressed the Laotians to al­low independent verification of their claim that no missing American servicemen are alive in Laos. 
DeConcini said he asked at both meetings for the United States to be allowed to send observers with Laotian teams to the area ofthe live sightings in uos. 
Phoun refused, because his government has said there are no living Americans, said DeConcini. 
McEwen proposed that an inter­year that found no Americans, and A day earlier, Foreign Minister national inspection team from the that notices had been distributed Nguyen Co Thach of Vietnam Red Cross or the United Nations throughout Laos asking people for pledged that any of the lawmakers accompany Laotian searchers, but information on Americans. could personally investigate any said Phoun bristled at the idea. reponed live sighting in Vietnam, 
Murkowski quoted Phoun as "The minister told us three but said Vietnam was not holding saying his government conducted times, 'There are absolutely any Americans. an extensive national census last none,"' said Murkowski. 

Vietnamese mom's dream realized 
As8oclated Press  lowing a plea by Murkowski, R-Alaska.  Sen.  Frank  She didn't want to go into detail about her separation from her  
FAIRBANKS, ALASKA-Xuan Thi  The senator went to Vietnam to  children or her escape from Viet­ 
Nguyen says she has dreamed of  lead a U.S. cwngressional delega­ nam, fearing that might jeopardize  
her children every night since she  tion which asked the Vietnamese  the reunion or cause problems for  
had to leave them behind when  to  help  resolve  the  cases  of  family  members  still  in  the  
she fled Vietnam, and this week her  Americans still listed as missing in  country.  
hopes will be realized when she is  action  from  the  Vietnam  War.  She also would not talk about  
reunited with two ofthem.  (Story above)  why another daughter, Nguyen Thi  
"I'm  so  excited  . . .  I cry,  so  But Murkowski also brought to  Ha, 1 0, is still in Vietnam.  
happy," said Ms. Nguyen, 35, who  Hanoi a plea from Ms. Nguyen that  Ms.  Nguyen, who is from Tay  
has not seen her children in seven  her children be allowed to leave  Ninh, about 55 miles north of Ho  
years. "My children, when I left  Vietnam.  Chi  Minh  city, formerly Saigon,  
them, were very young."  While she has exchanged letters  said  she  got  out  of  Vietnam  
Nguyen Vu Chinh,  an adopted  with  her  children,  she  has  not  "overland," to a refugee camp in  
I 0-year-old boy, and Tran Thanh  spoken to them by telephone since  Thailand.  
Quynh,  a 9-year-old girl, are  ex­ leaving Vietnam.  In the camp, she met a cousin,  
pected  to arrive here tomorrow  "I saw them in my dreams," she  Tong Vo Nguyen, who had worked  
after  their  release  by  the  Viet­ said. "Every night, I talk to them in  as an interpreter in Vietnam for J.B.  
namese government Saturday fol- my dreams. It's almost real now."  Carnahan.  

I

Congress to debate budget cuts 
As8oclated Press 
WASHINGTON-The debate over 
guns versus butter, raised to new in­
tensity by the sweeping Gramm­
Rudman budget cuts, dominates the 
agenda along with tax revision as the 
second session ofthe 99th Congress 
opens this week. 
The lawmakers will be operating for the first time under the Gramm­Rudman law they passed last month, which mandates deep spending cuts ifCongress and the president fail to pass enough cutbacks or tax in­creases to meet deficit-reduction targets. 
Government agencies are already laboring to make the S 1 1.7 billion cut required on March 1, which would still leave a deficit of about S208 billion. Far more onerous is the prospect of more than S50 bil­lion in cuts to meet the fiscal 1987 deficit target of n 44 billion. 
The 1987 fiscal year begins Oct. 1, so the decision making will be spot­lighted in the campaigns for 34 Senate and 435 House seats. 
Gramm-Rudman, to reach a balanced budget by fiscal 1991, cuts a wide range ofprograms, and "that's going to be very unfair to some programs and some groups," said Senate Democratic leader Roben C. Byrd, D-W.Va. 
Rep. Les Aspin, the Wisconsin Democrat who chairs the House Armed Services Committee, yester­day released a repon projecting that Gramm-Rudman will take more out of military personnel and readiness than out ofhigh-tech hardware over the next five years. 
Gramm-Rudman cuts don't hit So­cial Security or welfare benefits, veterans compensation, or interest on the national debt. But foreign aid, law enforcement, air traffic control and countless other gover~ent tasks are being cut back, and shield­ing one area from cuts would mean other areas get hit harder. 
President Reagan helped push through the House a major tax over­haul slashing individual and cor­porate tax rates while eliminatingor reducing some deductions and credits. The administration will try in the Senate to take away some of .what the president considers anti­
business bias in the House plan. 


CELEBRATION FEBRUARY21, 22 & 23,1986 

JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
NEEDS STUDENTS ASSISTANCE 

HELP WANTED 
300 Energetic and Talented Students From Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Cross to assist University Food Services in this Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Tradition 
JOBS: 

Waiters-Waitresses-Laborers-Expediters 
WHERE TO SIGN UP: 
Virdeen Ruper-South Dining Hall (Accounting Offfice) Dolores Wydrzynski-North Dining Hall (Manager's Office) 
--~-~ -----------~---­
-~----------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, january 20, 1986 -page 5 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 
SObering Advice·-= cat;~ savealifEf:­
Think Before You Dr1nk /,_Before You Dr1ve .~~-.·· ~ 




World leaders ax interest rate plan 

Associated Press 
LONDON· Finance ministers and central bank governors of the five biggest industrialized nations outside the communist world rejected Japan's proposal at their weekend meeting to cut worldwide 
interest rates,  sources said yester­ 
day.  
An  official  statement  said  the  

financial officials were "satisfied" with efforts they have made since September to lower the value of the dollar and contained no hint of fur­ther measures to devalue the dollar. 
Reacting to reports of the meeting. foreign exchange dealers said they expected the value of the dollar to stay at its current level in the near future. 
Official sources, speaking on con· dltion of anonymity, said the finan· cia! representatives of the United States, Britain, France, West Ger­many and Japan rejected a Japanese proposal for coordinated interest rate cuts. 
Later, Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita told reporters he did not expect U.S. interest rates to fall soon. A two-paragraph statement 
released on the group's behalfby the British Treasury said the Saturday· Sunday meeting "was an informal one to take stock of developments since the meeting in New York on 22 September." 
The financial leaders customarily do not officially announce what ac· tions they decide upon in their meetings. 
However, last September they an· nounced they had agreed to coor­dinate intervention on world currency markets to drive down the value ofthe dollar. 
After that meeting. the value of the dollar fell about 1 0 percent. It now is worth about 20 percent less than it was a year ago, when its skyrocketing value spurred calls for protectionist legislation in the U.S. congress. 
"The finance ministers and central bank governors were satisfied with the progress made so far," continued the statement released yesterday, which appeared to signal no new efforts to further devalue the dollar. 
"They agreed that their coopera­tion should continue and that the progress which had been made should not be reversed," it con-eluded. 
There was no other official com­ment from the British Treasury or the U.S. embassy. 
Sources said the financial officials of the Group of Five, known as G-5, agreed the policy formulated In New York would be continued. 
The financial officials also dis­cussed a proposal by U.S. Treasury SecretaryJames Baker that called for more lending to the Third World to help deeply indebted countries repay loans. 
The officials expressed satisfac­tion with Baker's proposal, the sources said. 
The sources said the five decided that prospects for economic and monetary stability In their countries were good, and continuing stablllty would contribute to a favorable en· vironment for lower Interest rates. 
Baker and Paul Volcker, chairman of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board, were the first to leave the meeting at No. 11 Downing St., official residence ofBritain's Treasury chief, Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson. 
Baker and Volcker left yesterday, bound for Washington, and would not answer reporters' questions. 

34-year-old woman takes first-grade classes 
Associated Press 
CHRISNEY, IND. · Yong S. Duck· worth, a 34-year-old first-grader at Chrisney Elementary School, has earned high marks for determina­tion from her teachers and principal. 
"I just think she has a lot ofguts to do something like this," says Prin­cipal Leroy B. Meyer. 
Other pupils may take the school bus, but Duckworth arrives in a Mercedes-Benz and often grabs a cup ofcoffee in the teachers' lounge before heading quietly for her desk. 
At 34, the Korean-born woman is older than the teacher of her class, Bobbie Wilhelmus. 
"I have to say, at first I didn't know how to relate to having someone older than me in class," says Wil· helmus. "I was uncomfortable and scared to a point ... But after a week or so, I was OK." 
Because of her determination to learn the English language and earn a high school diploma, Duckworth has inspired her instructors and clas· smates at this small-town school about 30 miles east ofEvansville. 
"The kids see her and believe that if education is so important to her that she's in school now, then it must be important," says Meyer. 
Duckworth says she completed high school in Seoul, Korea, and even did some private teaching in Korea before moving to the United States with her husband, Benjamin, who was In the Air Force. 
They were married at the U.S. Em· bassy in Korea and later moved to Evansville, and Mrs. Duckworth became an American citizen in 
1978. 
It was then she realized she needed help learning English, partly because she was afraid her language problem would hinder the develop­ment of her 4-year-old son, Simon, who starts school later this year. 
"I felt I needed to help my son. He was becoming more aware, and I felt embarrassed." 
After the family relocated to Chrisney, where her husband took a higher-paying job at the Alcoa aluminum plant, Mrs. Duckworth found there were limited oppor­tunities to learn. 
She contacted Meyer about the possibility of receiving after-school tutoring. and when a tutor couldn't be found, the principal checked Into the possibility of her attending school full time. 
After conferring with legal staff of the Indiana Department of Educa· tion, Meyer learned that because Mrs. Duckworth had never attended a U.S. school, she was as eligible as any 7-year-old child. 
Because ofher age, she Is excused from physical education classes, and takes a coffee break Instead of recess. 
Otherwise, she is treated like any other pupil. She Is expected to turn In homework, receives grades and eats lunch with the yourtgsters. 

Desperately Seeking . • • People who love to draw and who have a deep desire to become famous. The STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD needs artists! Please call Meegan at 239-7757 if_you are interested.  

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
,------·COUPON SAVINGS------...,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
L--------------~~-~
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
; Reg.$8 ~~:
r-------------------1 
I $5OFF ANY PERM I 

I MasterCuts I
I fiwT6.I h*uttas I 
~------------------~ 




MasterCuts 
famly haircutters 
"University Park Mall" 
SENIOR•••NEXT YEAR ••• What wiD YOU do?????? 
opportunity to apply your Christian faith through SERVICE and COMMUNITY LIVING. 
HCA Volunteer• are in: 
Hayward, California Avondale, Arizona Portland, Oregon 
Colorado Springs, Colorado THINK ABOUT IT! 
Application DEADLINE: January 31. 
:::·. 
:· ,• 

;: . Mary Ann RoeDler (7949) I M.d. Murray (5521) 
2n-Jno 

View~_o_i_n_t_________..M....on-da.i.i.iy,J-an-uary-2-0,....19-86...:.-p~age-6 
Quote of the day 
I say to you today, my friends, so even though we face the difficulties. 
oftodayandtomorrow, I stillhave a dream.Itis a dreamdeeply rooted in 
the American dream. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up 
and live out the true meaning ofits creed: "We hold these truths to be 
self-evident: that all men are created equal." 
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of 
former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit 
down together at the table ofbrotherhood. I have a dream that one day 
even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of oppres­
sion, will be transformed into an oasis offreedom and justice. 
I have a dream that my four little childrenwill one day live in a nation 
where they will not be judged by the color oftheir skin but by the con­
tent oftheir character. 

I have a dream that one day every valley should be exalted, every hill 
and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, 
and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory ofthe Lord 
shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together. 
So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire; 
let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York; let freedom 
ring &om the heights of the Alleghenies of Pennsylvania; let freedom 
ring from the snow-capped Rockies ofColorado; let freedom ring from 
the curvaceous slopes of California. But not only that, let freedom ring 
from Lookout Mountain ofTennessee; let freedom ring from every hill 
and molehill in Mississippi· &om every mountainside letfreedom ring. 
And when this happens, when we allow freedom to ring-when we let 
it ring from every village and every hamlet, &om every state and every 
dty, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, 
black men and white men,Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, 
will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro 
spiritual, "Freeatlast, free atlast, thankGodAlmighty, we'refree atlast." 
Marttn Lutber Ktng,]r. Ctvtl Rtgbts Marcb on Wasbtngton Aug.28, 1963 



Fulfilling dream requires national commitment 

For 24 hours, America will honor the memory of a black American. For 24 hours, America will remember the dream of the grandson of a former slave. For 24 hours, Jan. 20, 1986, America will respect the light that was Martin Luther King Jr. 
Martin Rodgers 

as a nation 
Indeed, today King joins George Was­hington as the only other American to have a holiday in his name (Christopher Columbus was Italian). Perhaps it is fitting because King and his nonviolent army of love and brother­hood brought a birth offreedom to America in much the same manner as Washington. 
But there are haunting and dangerous ques­tions which must be asked today and maybe these reflective questions are the very purpose of this holiday. How far have we come as a nation since King? Is his Dream being realized? Has this nation risen up and lived out the true meaning ofits creed that all men are created equal? 
Noted historian Lerone Bennett wrote recently that "we are called in and through the holiday to the national task of continuing the struggle for the ful.fi1lment of King's dream. The crucial point here and elsewhere is that this is not a national holiday for rest and frivolity and play. This is a day for study and struggle and preparation for the victory to come. It Is a day set aside for measuring our­selves against the terrible yardstick of King's hope. And if we ever loved him, we will use this time to mobilize against the evils we iden-

Doonesbury 

tified . . . the evils of racism, militarism, un­employment and violence." 
Today we must look at where we stand and how far we have come both as a nation and individually. Regretfully, I believe that our refiection will show that our progress has recently been met with regress. The gains of the past are being lost in a myriad ofrhetoric, inaction and the Reagan administration's (Clarence Pendelton) fallacy of "equality through economics." 
King once said "what good is the right to sit at a lunch counter ifone can't afford the price ofa meal?" Indeed the adminstration's aim is a good one but it is not working because it is merely a facade. More than one-third ofblack Americans are below the poverty threshold. The Reagan administration has also cut back tax deductions for minority hiring and recruitment as well as chopping Social Security and Welfare. An estimated 25,000 young, disadvantaged, primarily minority children will not be able to particpate in "Upward Bound" this year as a result of Reagan's social policies. Food and housing programs for the disadvantaged have also been drastically reduced. In the year that King gave his famous "I have a dream" speech, 1963, unemployment among blacks was 10.8 percent; today it is 14 percent. In the political arena, where most of the recent gains have been realized, blacks still hold only 1.2 per­cent ofelected offices although they comprise 12 percent ofthe population. It is also worthy to underscore that although today Reagan will grab the attention of the press and publicly praise King and surround himself with black "faces," Reagan vehemently protested the bill 
which granted the national holiday in honor of King. 
Senator Edward M. Kennedy noted that "the recognition of Dr. King is especially timely now, when the fundamental rights for which he fought are so at risk today. We must redouble our efforts to preserve the right to equal job opportunity and affirmative action, the right to a decent education and a fair payc­heck .... In honoring Dr. King, we generate a stronger national commitment to the fulfill· ment of his dream · which is the American dream." 
Indeed today as Bennett and Kennedy high· light we must commit ourselves to progress. King once said, foreshadowing his assasina­tion, "I may not get there with you but I want you to know that we as a people will get to the Promised Land." Neither King's people nor King's country have made it yet. The struggle still must continue or King's death may turn out to have been in vain. We must use this holiday to strengthen and focus our efforts for justice, peace and equality. We cannot grow tired of the fight. If America could hold our people in bondage for approximately 73,000 days and nights than surely It can stand con­tinuing to attempt making reparations for a little while longer considering that the recent progress has spanned only 20 years. 
The words of Robert Hayden perhaps best describe how King shall be remembered "not with statues" rhetoric, not with legends and poems and wreaths of bronze alone but lives grown out of his life, the lives fleshing his dream." King himself said in a tape played at his funeral that he wanted to be remembered as a person "who tried to love somebody" and who attempted to "serve humanity." 
Today we can remember King by commit· ing ourselves to peace and nonviolence. Todaywe individually can try to see each per­son as a brother or a sister trying not make assumptions based on race, color or creed, but rather on a person's "content of charac­ter." Today we can have a "dream" and have hope. Today, we as a nation can refiect on how far we have come and prepare for the long hard road we have yet to travel and must travel. Also as a nation we must further com­mit ourselves to a course of action that will lead to even greater progress. Today, In memory of Martin Luther King, we can "try and love somebody." 

Martin Rodgers is a sophomore govern­ment/ALPA major at Notre Dame and co­president oftbe Black Cultural Arts Council. 
Let us bury prejudice before prejudice buries us. 



Garry Trudeau 
The Viewpoint Department P.O. Box Q 


Notre Dame, IN 46556 
VieWP-Oint Monday, January 20, 1986-page 7 

Blacks must still struggle for progress at ND 

Today marks the first official national holiday in honor of the late civil rights leader, Martin Luther King. Jr. For most black Americans, "King Day" signifies a time when blacks can proudly look back in history and see the long overdue fruits of their labor. 
Lester Flemons 

as a campus 
They can see new socio-economic and political opportunities opening up for blacks and other minorities at every walk of life. Blacks who only yesterday were predominantly workers ofthe soil, laborers or house: workers now are found in almost every gainful field ofemployment. Indeed, the many years ofstruggle have yielded visible progress, and the martyrdom of King has inspired steps toward a richer life for blacks. 
Yet the triumphs of King. positive in so many respects, are nevertheless partial in the never-ending struggle for equality. It was King himselfwho said, "The road to freedom is long and winding." Therefore, anyone who sin­cerely believes in what Martin Luther King. Jr. stood for must also believe it is our duty to ensure that his dream remains alive. He dreamed of a nation bound by social justice and committed to the unconditional equality ofits people. 
Unfortunately, discrimination and prejudice remain a part ofour society, includ­ing our educational system. Even today, 18 years after the death of Martin Luther King. various institutions and universities continue to lag behind in the area of civil rights and black progress. Notre Dame, a widely ac­claimed and respected institution is unfor­tunatelyone ofthe schoolswhich lags behind. 
When a black student at Notre Dame reflects on the history of blacks at Notre Dame, he will find very little to be proud of. The University definitely will not receive an award for its accomplishments in the area of black progression. Nor will the administrators of this great institution receive commenda­tions for their sterling efforts to improve the situation for blacks at Notre Dame. 
In terms of black admittance, Notre Dame has, for the past 15 years, experienced some­thing similar to a roller coaster ride. One year black admittance is up, the next year woefully down. In 1982. there were 75 blacks admitted to the University, while 1984 yielded a black freshman class ofonly 34. It would appear that Notre Dame is regressing rather than progressing. 
Oddly enough, no one is able to pinpoint exactly what the problem· is. If you asked 1 0 different administrators what the problem is, you probably would get I 0 different answers. Indeed, if King were alive today he would be appalled, not only by Notre Dame's dwindling black population but by the overall situation for blacks at Notre Dame. 
Where is the progress? Where is the justice? 
Certainly a highly-regarded Catholic institu­
tion like Notre Dame can answer these ques­
tions. 
One ofMartin Luther King's dominant traits 
was his ability to incite action on behalfof so­
cial reform. King refused to walt until society 
decided it was time for the black man to have 
equality. Instead he taught blacks that they 
could attain unity and hold it until they had 
won a victory. Beyond this, they learned that 
even after mistakes, lost ground can be 
recaptured. 
These are lessons which suggest the future 
will have fewer defeats and more successes. 
The emergence of the Notre Dame College Chapter NAACP (National Association for the Advancement ofColored People) is an indica­tion that black students at Notre Dame finally are achieving the unity needed to ignite change. By "change," I am referring to a change in attitude rather than merely an in­crease: in numbers. As King taught, we must learn to attack the roots of the problem, not the symptoms. 
Granted, it will be difficult to bring about such a change of attitude at Notre Dame. The victories of black people always have been torturously slow in coming and too often In­complete. But there have been victories. Mar­tin Luther King has pointed the way to further achievement. Ifhis life .and death are to find .a permanent place In history, we must keep marching. moving. struggling toward the land ofwhich he dreamed. 
I encourage all those who would like to honor King to attend the United Religious Community of St. Joseph County's all-d.ay celebration today from 9:30a.m. to 10 p.m. The festivities will take place .at the Century Center,located at 319S. Main St., South Bend. 
Lester Flemons Is a senior English major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
I 
I 
I I 
1 
I 
I 
~ 
1 

1 


Campus comments: How far has Notre Dame come on the issue ofcivil rights? 
Tom Considine College ofArts and Letters Pat Burns Theresa Ferns Kathy McManaman Susan Hayes Anekalkll Government/PPE maJor Psychology maJor Government maJor Accounting major Biology maJor 







Campus comments: How far has the nation come on the issue ofcivil rights? 




Although the laws have changed, some .attitudes have quite a way 
to go. Our generation will be the first to reaJize Martin's dream. 

Mary Hronchek Amy Smith John Dettling Tim Brown Accounting maJor Marketing maJor Program ofliberal Studies ALPA/economics major 
Photos by Drew Sandier 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamihon Busineu Manager.. . . . .... Davtd Stephenttch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller. .. Wilham J. Htghducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager . . .... Jtm Hagan 
The Observer ts the independent newspaper published by the students of the Untveraity ol 
News Editor ...................................Dan McCullough Systems Manager.. . ..... Mark B Johnson
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary"s College. II does not necessarily reflect the poltcies ol the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Production Manager.............. . .John A. Mennen
admtntstratton ol et.ther tnalitution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb 
stble. UnSigned editorials represent the opinion ola majority olthe Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy
tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views ol their authors. Column apace is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphyavatlable to all members ot the community and the lree expresaion of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches campus. through leners. is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Woff Founded November 3, 1966 

-----------~~~-~---,----~----­
~---~~..,....---~---....+------------·-------~~--~~-~~-~--~-----...---.....,. 
Accent 
Monday, January ~0, 1986-page 8 
1986 horoscopes -Observer scoops Enquirer? 

develop and all your dreams come Sagiuarius (Nov. 22 -Dec. 21): macaroni with a fork. Hold your
KrlsMurphy 

true. Even the ones you can't You smell funny until April. This breath often. remember. destroys your social life, but that's Aquarius Qan. 20 -Feb. 18): OK because you're a twit anyway. You get a new car but you lose 
Altered 

0 
Scorpio (Oct. 24-Nov. 21): You try to change but it's hopeless. the keys and leave it in the garage Aturning point in y:our life. You You're a loser, so give up. all the time. Your academic life is turn too much though and get on the rocks. So is your love life. K, I'm a little late. It's already Gemini (May 21 -June 21): dizzy. Wednesdays are key days and You continue to think positively, mid-January, but I'm present­Pets play an important part in you change your favorite color to Capricorn (Dec. 22 -Jan.19): though, and everything works out. ing the 1986 Altered Horoscopes your life. You let the dog out and he mauve. You meet a sexy newspaper You wish upon your star and it You become a leader in your field anyway (with thanks to M. doesn't come back. Lovers play writer named Mr. X and he takes turns out to be a spot on your con­and an example for millions of Ramirez). Better late than never. practical jokes on you. High point you to Bermuda. Everyone wears tact lens. Other than that, things go juvenile delinquents. Don't travel in Better fried than scrambled. Better ofthe year comes inJuly. You're on shorts there. You get a great tan and well. Sports are a high point, even the daytime. Join the first terrorist be good to me. Better shut up and the beach. A member ofthe op­a bargain on a used bowling ball. though you couldn't catch a pass if group that takes you hostage. Meet get on with it. posite sex approaches in a towel. Exciting additions to your you threw it to yourself. Watch out exciting members ofthe opposite 
You hear waves roaring as he/she wardrobe change your life. Eat for crazy drivers, agitated womem, sex through full-contact karate. Pisces (Feb.19-March 20): approaches. He/she stands there more pickles. and nuclear weapons. Don't eat Believe everything you read. 
The stars will not be good to you. holding his/her towel up while you In fact, two of them will fall on your discuss seafood. You blow everyth­house. Frankly, life is going to be a ing by blowing your nose in your major pain in the posterior for the beach bag. Avoid high places and next 365 days, so get used to it. low incomes. Give all your money away now and 
cancer Oune 22 -July 22):
write it off your taxes because it's An exciting year for women. Men
all going to get stolen anyway. All of come and go (mostly go) with
it. Romantic relationships will be alarming frequency. You are at the
terrible. For men: the only girls you height ofpopularity. Family matters
can pick up are thirteen years old. get violent. Your mother chases you
They all have chaperones. For through your new house with a
women: some guy at a party asks hacksaw. Your uncle plays "Russian 
you to come upstairs and see his Roulette" with a staple gun. Frozen 
stamp collection. You refuse. meat becomes your favorite food. 
Things never get any better. The Leo Ouly 23 -Aug. 22):
high point ofyour year will be You blow this year off. Come
Arbor Day. Pack it up now and back next year.
spend your year cleaning the base­ment. 

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):
Aries (March 21 -April19): 

The best year ofyour life. Con­Ayear ofdecisions. Some ofthis sidering how your life has gone soyear's biggest: "Should I change my far, that's not promising muchshampoo?" "What type ofdog excitement. A big radish cropshould I buy?" and "ls it kosher to makes you rich and academic pur­eat yogurt in mixed company?" 
suits bring only happiness after anFunny things happen on Tuesdays. 
affair with a language lab Romance blossoms in April but you moderator. Things slow downsit on a lightbulb in May. You sleep during November and you findthroughJune and old acquaintances more time to engage in yourmake December a living hell. Don't favorite pastime -Play-dohwear tight clothes. 
sculpture. Avoid tossed salads, 
Taurus (Aprll20-May 20): 

concrete, and horoscopes. Oops!
You start the new year with ice You blew it! 

cream in your ear. Things get bet­ter, though, because excellent job Ubra (Sept. 23-Oct. 23): offers pour in. Unfortunately you A time for testing and learning. die a slow death in early March and You grow wiser through ex­that pretty well blows your chances perience. Your creative powers are for actually starting one ofthose at an apex but you don't have the jobs. Your funeral is great but slightest idea what "apex" means. everyone cuts out early and goes to School gets easier and partying gets Taco Bell. Your friends remember harder so you work harder at party­you as "weenie." Have as many ing. You try new foods like Spam 
children as possible before it's too and greenJell-o. Avoid yellow late. lifesavers. Romantic relationships 
Marshall Crenshaw still looking for that big hit 

LARRY McSHANE 
.A.P features writer 
C 
ritical acclaim is nice, and 
praise from other artists even 
nicer. But why, Marshall Crenshaw 
wonders, can't he get a Top 10 hit? 
"It's terribly frustrating not to 
have a big hit single," said Cren­
shaw, the 32-year-old guitarist and 
songwriter whose Downtown al­
bum is hovering in the Billboard 
charts. "I think every single we've 
put out has been right on the 
money, so I'm really confused as to 
why we haven't had a hit." 
Crenshaw is not alone in his 
confusion. His three-and four-
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, a quote in Friday's Happenings was in­correctly stated. Keith Spatz did not say he worked at Irish Gardens in or­der to see who buys the most flowers. 
Also, the name of a canonical novice in Thursday's story on nuns was incorrectly spelled. The correct spelling is Michelle Toepp. 

minute songs appear tailor-made to be pop hits: they have catchy hooks, sing-along choruses and tight in­strumentation. Bette Midler sings Crenshaw's praises and his song, "You're My Favorite Waste of Time." Rockabilly singer Robert Gordon scored a Top 40 hit with the Crenshaw-penned, "Someday, Someway." 
Yet the one hit which could send his career skyrocketing eludes Crenshaw, whose songwriting style prompted Rolling Stone magazine to compare his first album to the work of the late Buddy Holly. 
"I think it had a lot to do with just an impression ofa physical resemblance," the bespectacled Crenshaw said in an interview, running his hand through his short hair. "But then on the other hand, there's a couple ofsongs on there that are almost straight rip-oft's of Buddy Holly songs." 
Either way, Crenshaw doesn't mind the comparison to Holly or any ofthe musicians from the late 1950s and early 1960s he grew up hearing. Crenshaw is also well acquainted with the work ofthe Beatles, having playedJohn Lennon in a nationwide tour of "Beatlemania." But despite these 
influences and experiences, the 
Detroit native believes he has 
carved his own niche. 
On his third and most recent 
album, Crenshaw featured new 
instruments -electric sitar and 
congas, for example -and recruited 
musicians other than drummer 
(and brother) Robert Crenshaw 
and bassist Chris Donato, the only 
other players on Crenshaw's first 
two albums. 
Crenshaw and his band, which now includes his brother, Donato, formerJoe Jackson bassist Graham Maby and onetime "Beatlemania" sidekick Tom Teeley (who portrayed George Harrison), recently completed a concert tour at arenas as an opening act for British techno-pop star Howard 
Jones. Maby and Teeley joined the band in time for the tour. 
Crenshaw now says he wants to record his next album with his tour band, but his thoughts still stray to that hard-to-find smash single. 
"I wouldn't even:begin to try to imagine why he haven't had one," he said with a shrug. "There's no good reason for that. But I still think we'll have one ultimately." 

r-------------------------------------------­
.,..

The Observer Monday, january 20, 1986-page 9 
Sports Briefs 
Bengal Bouts Boxing workouts for this year's A scuba diving course consisting of 1s hours of tournament will begin today at 4 p.m. in the Boxing Room of the instruction will be held by NVA. The course Is open to students and ACC. All Boxing Club members and anyone interested in boxing in staff. Anyone interested should attend a meeting tomorrow at 6 p.m. the Bengal Bouts Tournament should attend. For more information in Room 218 of the Rockne Memorial Building. For more informa· call Kevin O'Shea at 283· 3182. ·The Observer tion call the NVA office · The Observer 
SMC varsity tennis wm hold an organizationalThe ND Rowing Club will hold a mandatory meeting today at 4 p.m. in the Angela Lounge. Spring tryouts willmeeting for all members tomorrow at 7 p.m. In Room 123 of the begin jan. 27 at 3:30 p.m. For more information call Mary Beth atNieuwland Science Building. For more information call Patricia 284-5548. ·The Obser!Jf!r
Worth at 283-27'59. ·The Observer Men's and women's volleyball tournaments 

Interhall hockey teams may register to practice are being organized by the NVA. Rosters must include at least seven on the ACC Ice rink starting today after 1 p.m. A limit ofone hour per players all of which must reside in the same hall. Rosters should be week per team will be imposed and the fee wlll be S50 per hour. For turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more more Information call Tom Carroll at 239-5247. ·The Observer information call NVA. · The Observer 
The NDJudo Club will meet Wednesday at 7 p.m. in Men's and women's racquetball tourna· Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial Building. Anyone Interested Is 
ments are being organized by the NVA. The tourney will be a welcome to attend. No experience is neccess.ary. For more informa­
doubles competition, and both players on each team must reside in tion call Karen Russell at 283-414'5. · The Obsertrer 
the same hall. Rosters should be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call NVA. ·The Observer
A Schick SMC basketball tourney, for 
three-on-three teams, will be held beginning Feb. '5. Rosters can be 
A Grad-Faculty racquetball tournament Is
picked up today at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned being organized by the NVA. Competition in the elimination tourna­by Jan. 29. No prt•sent or former varsity basketball players may par· ment will consist of doubles play only. Rosters should be turned inticipate. The winning team will go to regional play with the cham­by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more informationpionship game being held In an NBA arena. For more information 
-call NVA. · The Observer 
t·all the Angela Athletic Facility. · The Observer 
A doubles handball tournament is being
A SMC doubles racquetball tournament will 
organized by the NVA. The elimination tournament is open to allbegin Feb. 3. Rosters can be picked up today at the Angela Athletic students and staff, including grad students. Rosters should be turnedFacility and must be returned by Jan. 29. For more Information call in by Wednesday to the NVA office in the ACC. For more informationthe Angela Athletic Facility.· The Obsert1er 
call NVA. · The Observer 
A SMC co-ed volleyball tourney will begin 
A men's and women's track competition IsFeb. 3. Teams must consist of 3 men and 3 women. Rosters can be being organized by the NVA. Individuals interested in signing up forpicked up today at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned the track and field events should notify the NVA office in the ACC bywith a S I 0 entry fee by Jan. 29. For more information call the Angela Wednesday. NO residence halls will be ranked by points compiledAthletic Facility. ·The Obsert1er by individuals. For more information call NVA. · The Observer 
WVFI Sports,AM-64, wlU broadcast tonight's NO-Hofstra 
ba.<;ketball game with Pete Pranica and Kevin Herbert as commen­An open bowling league is being organized by tators. WVFI also wlU broadcast Wednesday's NO-American basket· the NVA. Rosters for the four-week tournament must include seven ball game and Thursday's NO-Loyola women's basketball game. names, four of which will represent the team each week. Rosters 
Broadcast times for all three games is 7:20p.m. ·The Observer 
should be turned in by Wednesday to the NVA office In the ACC. For more information call NVA. · T_he Observer Tip-offtime for the NO-OePaul women's basketball game on Sunday has been changed to 3: I '5 p.m. The contest originally was NVAaerobics for men and women will begin Wednesday in Gym 2 of the ACC. Any interested student or staff member may
scheduled to begin at 2 p.m.· The Obsert'er call the NVA office in the ACC for times and entry fees. ·TheObserver 
SMC Aerobics classes will begin today at 10 p.m. in the 
Angela Athletic Facility. Classes will be held from 10 p.m. to 11 p.m. NVA stretchercise' a toning, suetching, and light ex­ercise to music wlU begin Thursday in Gym 2 ofthe ACC. Classes will 
on Mondays and Wednesdays, and from '5 to 6 p.m. on Tuesdays, be held every Tuesday and Thursday from 5:10 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Thursdays, and Fridays. Anyone interested should bring a S'5 entry fee to the first class session. For more information call Mary Beth at Anyone interested may register at the first session. For more in· formation call NVA. · The Observer 
284·'5'548. ·The Obsertlf!r 

Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski An NVA cross-country ski clinic for begin· 
ning and intermediate skiers will be held Sunday at 1 p.m. on theequipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Cost is S4 for people with skis and S6Ro,.:kne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no for those who need to rent skis. Anyone interested should sign up byreservation is necessary. Any students, faculty or staff members in· Thursday at the NVA office in the ACC. For more information call
tcrested should call 239-6100 for additional information.· The Ob· NVA. · The Observer 
sert•er 
Women's 
Boxes 
Frteley'a Raeulla 
Notre O.me 72, Detroit 58 
O.trolt (58) 
M FQ.A FT-A R F p 

Pack 30 3·10 o-o 4 4 6 
Whalen 40 5-8 2·2 7 4 12 
Maki 22 D-4 2-4 2 5 2 
Nealy 36 3-7 3-4 3 2 9 
Smith 39 5-16 2-4 5 0 12 
Pearce 4 2·6 o-o 0 4 4 
McCartha 7 0·1 ().1 0 1 0 
Hawkins 7 2-4 o-o 1 0 4 
Chapman 15 4·7 1·2 6 3 9 
200 24-63 10.17 28 23 58 
FG Pet. .381. FT Pet. -.588. Team 

rebounds • 4. Turnovenl • 13. Assists • 10 
(Pack 3). T echnicala -none. 
Notre o.m.(72) M FQ.A FT-A R F p Keys 35 5-14 11-14 6 2 21 
-"

Willis 35 2-5 2·2 5 3 6 Both am 23 7-8 2·2 9 4 16 Gavin 28 1·2 2-3 3 3 4 Ebben 35 2-8 4-4 2 2 8 Kuhns 5 0-0 0·0 0 0 0 Toney 17 1·3 o-o 2 0 2 Bromm eland 4 2·2 o-o 0 0 4 Bunek 18 5-9 1·1 9 1 11 200 25-51 22-26 38 15 72 FG Pet. • .490. FT Pet. -.846. Team rebounds • 4. Turnovers • 20. Assists -16 
(Gavin 5). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime • Notre Dame 26, Detroit 23. Of1i­

cials • Randy Dreiman, Linda Maxfield. A • 
211. 
Sundlly'a Reeulta 
Boeton U. 74, Notre O.rne 72 
Boaton U. (74) 

M FQ.A FT-A R F p Smith 31 3-9 7-8 9 4 13 Aehuck 30 6-12 o-o 5 3 12 Dukes 361()..17 3-4 5 2 23 Barry 10 1·2 ().1 0 0 2 Kurowski 36 3·7 1·2 3 3 7 Fitchen 18 2·3 1-3 2 1 5 Boe«cher 11 D-4 o-o 5 4 0 Johnson 17 3·6 6-7 2 1 12 Weber 2 o-o o-o 0 2 0 Roper 9 o-o o-o 0 1 0 
200 28-60 18-25 31 21 74 

FG Pet. .467. FT Pet. -.720. Team rebounds -3. Turnovers • 13. Assists -14 (Johnson 4). Technicals-none. 
Notre Dame (72) M FQ.A FT·A R F p Keys 38 8·16 2-4 6 3 18 ... 
WiHis 21 2-4 4·5 5 1 8 Both am 22 5-10 4-4 11 4 14 Gavin 39 2·3 6-9 3 4 10 Ebben 28 3-8 o-o 5 5 6 Toney 11 1-4 ().1 1 1 2 Brommeland 13 3-4 o-o 1 0 6 Barron 4 ().1 o-o 0 1 0 Bunek 21 3-6 2·2 2 3 8 Monison 3 ().1 o-o 2 0 0 
200 27-S718-25 38 22 72 

FG Pet. .474. FT Pet. • .720. Team rebounds • 3. Turnovers • 21. Assists -11 (Gavin 6). Technicats ·none. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 35, Boston U. 32. Of1icials ·Chip Sobek, Walt Popyk. A· 225. 
The Ohsert•er :'llotre Dame olfke. located on the third floor of l.afonune Student Center. accepts das.~ilkd Ad,·ertisin~ from 9 a.m. until -t p m.. ~ondn throu~h Friday The Obserr•er Saint ~an··s offin·. located on the thtrd floor of llaAAar Colk~t· Center. accepts dassifkds from 1lc.\0 p.m unhl _\ p m. ~ton· day thou~h Friday Deadline for nt·xt·da\ dassifkds is .\ p.m..,II classifkds must ht· prepatd. eithn in person or h' mail <.har~t· is 10 cents per fh·e chara<·· 
Classifieds 
ters r da\· 

FOUND: TURQUOISE RING IN COM· Mlkey'a tan club a-11111<1 It up! Only 19 PUTING CENTER LAST FRIDAY. SEE ~hopping dllya left until he tunw LEGALNOTICES~ LOST/FOUND BETTY IN ROOM 3 TO CLAIM. FOUND: WANTED TICKETS Lefl make It a dlty he won·t _,. 10 GLASSES IN WASHINGTON HAll.. IF remember. 
YOUR OPTOMETRIST IS OR. UOVARI FROM PENNSYLVANIA PlEASE POP FARLEY WEEK 'II 
Loet: Kodak Disc camera 3100 at thelSU 
.................... .. ................. game either In the 118dium 01 on Green· WANTED 2 GA'S TO MARQUETTE
If you have taken Econ 115, I NEED your 
CLAIM AT LOST AND FOUND. Shopping Trip To TheM..Tonight book: Economla. by McConnel. c.lAnn
TYPING field. I can poeltlvely I den lily. Pleue GAME CALL BIU X2161 
.Mcltl• ...... return. c.l Mery C.ol•t 264·5242 Grand Openlrlfl Fay·•
Mltrleat1330. Thenkl. 
~71111 Help mel I need 4 ticketa 101 the~­Loet at a bauketball game-A Moniuey LOST: 1 pair ol black, men'l IMlher alti game. Pleue call Mike at3562. Thankll
Wanted: 01~ Friday. Part time legal
Manor DT baaeW QIP. U,._you llleln glovel at the llookllore on Wedneeday MC'S PREPARE YOURSELVEs-ecAF
r...-ch aecretwy c.l233-3432 ····¥········································..················ 
Typing Avllilltble !he OT you can·t -It 10 why no1 call morning. PI-return to room 405 FASHION SHOW MC TRYOUTS WIU 287-4082 Joe at 3436 01 atop by room 13. Keenan 01 call Rick (tile Crul-) al3363 COMMENCE ON FRI.,JAN.24TH, AT
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST 
8:00PM IN THE BCAC OFFICE. AP·

CALl. 259-3187
LOST: BlUE LAND'S END SUITCASE LOST: Qne Gold Chain Br-'etl LOST: PERSONALS PLICATIONS CAN BE PICKED UP AT $10.$360 W.-ty/Up Mlllllng Clft:uierll ON UNITED LIMO SUNDAY NIGHT. INI­At Sr. S., J*king 1o1 In trnnt, or D2. 227 LEWIS HALl (TONI'S), MONDAY. 
Noqu~! TIAlS G88 ARE ON IT. PLEASE CALL LOST: If found, ~ call 2710 LOST: JAN.20TH 10PM-12AM AND
···ij;;-;~·~;;·;;;;i;;;;;;~;p;;;;;;;;;,
Slnoerety ml«ealed nJih Nlf-.dci'~ GREG34811. G,..l Sentimental Vlluellll RETURNED JAN.22TH, 7PM-12AM. AP· _,elope: Sue~. POBox 470CDO, be :wre that th-II mora to OUt belrlg PLICATION& CAN ALSO BE PICKED UP Woodllock, IL 60096 LOST-GREEN ARMY FIELD JACKET at ROOM WANTED than allah-bulb In etarnlty? IN 117 BREEN PHIWPS (liSA'S), MON BRIDGETS during ftnala week. Nama a.-to campue. Private beth, kitchen JAN.20TH, 7·8PM AND RETURNED SUMMER I CAREER JOBS inllde. Only Winter coat. c.1 267· faciltiea, paridng IPK'I· Malt $200/mo. • Rlc:hard Bach TUES., JAN.21 2:4&-4:45 PM. AVAILA8LE' 5425:Pete. FOUND: Set of keya Thursday In Hurley Pleue c8ll Dave JirrNJfl8Z 234·2000, ext. 
Tlte..._...__F_ 
Relort HDiele. CluiM u,... I Amu.. 1011. Two GM keya on ring. c.l Dave at 717 after 9 p.m. Rob Enrl(;lt·We lmow thel If your body ment P-.,. now accepting llpplic.a­LOST Gold ring With lnlti... ML 8f911Ved 272-6693. Puffy, doean't taka what you give it It -·ntget llorw tor employment! To .-ve an on the face. It 11 of lmm-.r...., Mn· ThenkYou••. what It _,..._ -•tharel Xmaa S.. llpplicatlon end Information, Write: timem.lvlllue, and a generouer-wt• TB lion '85-Pal CWk, MeryAnn Samzyck, 
Tourlem Information Servlcee be offered If found. If you have 1111y In· tl'a not jult a job, lt'aan adVenture. Deliver and Rob Detznarl 
P.O. Boa 7411 Hlnon Heed llllllld. SC formation regarding th11 ring, ~con-the Obeervarl 8pota now open 101 INTERESTED IN INTER-VARSITY 29828 18C1 Maria at215 Falley, 4053. FOR RENT evaryday of the -'<. Good pay. Come CHRISTIAN FEUOWSHIP? CALL 
CA Lllat ....,..ter -.,..at tun end thla up 10 the Obeervar and 11• ou1an appNca· SHEII..A-1985 OR KEVIN·1883. ...,_., lookl....., bellar. If thla k­TYPING LOST: ONE PAIR OF GRAY WOOL tion, or call tMrk Pottar al2113-2450. up I wil t:w•k your record yet. Gel 
CALL CHillS GLOVES IN O'SHAG. PLEASE CALL APARTMENT AVAILABLE N.D.APTS.1 Get the New York Tlme1. c.l Jamie at peychedl HMC 288-4753. IT'S BEEN VERY COLO WIT· OR 2 PERSONS CAU. TOM 289-3483 Need 4 Ga Marquette tix. PI-call Dan 2113-2043. HOUTTHEM. 23n M8 et al Thankl for lhering my birthday Tltenk you vwy tnUGI!It. JUde! 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 272-FREE FACIALS AND MAKEOVERS with rna. You are .. apecllli. HMC LOST HELP II I loll my HP·15C calculator 6306 Held In your own realdence. c.l JuNe at ­the week before tlnala lui Mmeeter, In 234-7635 Hllll Jennllll Happy blrthdlly and welcome Attantlon: llu....., the Math Building, probebly rm 212. II you Semi· SemHurnllhed houH In good Proleealonaf Beeuly Coneultant to Noh O.ma. Hope you heve a great
FOR SALE
DolofMF,_. found It (and 110meone mull have) pleae, neighborhood 255-3684t2n-3604 '"18'"1111 TYJIInelarvtce pleae, PLEASE return It to loat & found '-a,._chanp on the 2nd rtoor of LaFOIIune. llmow I am Need female~ lo IUbiMM apt. January OAJI HOUN: COLD BI!IR & LIQUOR. SMC JR'S COME TO THE WELCOME m_.1J1 a geek, bul I juat can't Nve Without H, Hie rent already paid. c.. Shirley 234-6647 RENT OR SALE 3 BORM. HOUSE W. CAMY OUT TO J A.ll. U.l. :11 N., 1 SACK TEA MON. JAN. 20 AT 6:00PM IN helloat al m•nlng tor me. or Maureen 2113-2612. ANGELA 232-3635 M.oatlOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. THE ClUBHOUSE 
j 

-----~----~--·~~~-----_...,.,------------.... 
-
The Observer Monday, January 20, 1986-page 10 
Patriots join together as family; team more comfortable with Berry 
FOXBORO, MASS. · Two weeks ago, about a dozen New England Patriots' players and their wives feasted at a famous Boston seafood restaurant. 
Offensive guard John Hannah, of­ten praised for his individual great­ness but never on a winning playoff team in his first I 2 seasons in the Na­tional Football League, was among them. 
"We ate and acted like we were Rockefeller down there and he picked the tab up," said cunning back CraigJames. "I said, 'thank you,' and he said, 'No, thank you.' That meant a lot to me, knowing he's happy." 
The dinner followed the Patriots' second playoff victory of the season, over the Los Angeles Raiders. 
It has been a season in which, Patriots' players say, there is more togetherness and feeling for each ot­her than there has been in years. 
"We see each other as being a room full of brothers," said free safety Fred Marion. "We fight for each other and we cry for each ot­her. That's the way you have to be to be champions." 
The Patriots embark Monday on their last journey toward that goal when they leave for New Orleans, where they will seek their fourth consecutive playoff upset, against the Chicago Bears in next Sunday's Super Bowl. 
It has been a remarkable journey from the ill-fated reign of Ron Meyer, who was fired midway through last season. During his 2% years as coach, unhappy players grumbled about him and traveled, according to one of his rules, on separate buses for the offense and defense. 

"The teams that get close and are a unit and a family are the teams that win and that's what we are right now," James said. "We're not as much a defense and offense. It's more a mingling. There's not a lot of little groups." 
Before Raymond Beery succeeded Meyer, "the guys would hang with either (teammates who played) their position or other players they had things in common with," said wide receiver Cedric Jones. 
"But this year, with coach Beery, he emphasizes putting the team before yourself, an unselfish type of attitude. I think we've formed a type of brotherhood, a cohesiveness that we didn't have before as players and it's fun to be around 
Cook wins Bob Hope golf tourney 
PALM DESSERT, CA · Donnie Hammond forced a playoff with a birdie-birdie finish and then beat John Cook on the first extra hole for the title yesterday in the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. 
Hammond, 28, claimed the first victory of his four-year PGA tour career with a 1 0-foot birdie putt that curled into the cup on the first playoff hole. 
The victory, which took five days, 91 holes and competition over four desen courses to achieve, was wonh $108,000 from the total purse of $600,000. That's more than the easy-going Hammond won in any previous full season. 
Cook, in a slump since winning the Canadian Open in I 983, and Hammond each played the final round in 6-under-par 66 and had matching 90-hole totals of 335, 25 shots under par. 
Hammond, one shot back with two holes to go, hit a long iron to within four feet of the flag on the 17th and coaxed in the putt for a share of the lead. 
He went in front alone, briefly, when he was green-high in two on the par-5 18th and chipped to tap-in distance. 
He then waited in the scoring tent beside the 18th green while Cook, a resident of this desen reson area and a gallery favorite, played the final hole. From the fairway, Cook put his second shot on the green, some 18 feet away from an eagle that would have won it. 
But he left that putt shon, then tapped in for the birdie that sent it to overtime · ttie fifth consecutive year this tournament has required a playoff. 

On the first extra hole, Cook's ap­proach skipped through the green while Hammond put his near the flag. Cook chipped back close, marked his ball and then watched as Hammond rolled in the right-to-left breaking putt for his first victory. 
Jodie Mudd, the leader through four rounds, played the last 7 4 holes of the tournament without a bogey. But it wasn't enough. His finishing 69 left him at 337, two shots out of the playoff. 
Former PGA champion Hal Sutton had a 69 despite a balky, erratic put­ter and was ~one at 338. 
Payne Stewart, Craig Stadler and Gary Koch followed at 339. Stewart closed up with a 65 in the 85-degree heat. Stadler and Koch each shot 68. 
Belmont blaze destroys 45 thoroughbreds; total damages estimated at over $5 million 

The Obscrver/Hannes Hacker 

Steve Brelsford takes aim at bis sports fantasy, shooting twofree 
throws for Indiana with no time on tbe clock and tbe game on tbe 
line. Brelsford's dream came true as be sunk bis second sbot and 
ave Indiana tbe 'victory'. 

ONCE A YEAR YOU 

CAN PURCHASE AT 
RETAIL SELECT 
ROSSIGNOL, K-2 

DYNASTAR AND ELAN 
SKIS. AND FOR 1 ¢ 

WE WILL GIVE YOU A 
PAIR OF SOLOMON 
337 BINDINGS AND A 
PAIR OF LOOK POLES. 
THE 1¢ SKI SALE. 
DESIGNED FOR 
BEGINNERS AND INTERMEDIATES NOW GOING ONI 
ELMONT, N.Y. -a Fire yesterday swept through a Belmont Park Racetrack barn where a sprinkler system had broken down just days earlier, killing 4 5 thoroughbred horses worth up to 15 million and injuring two firefighters, authorities said. 
"It looked like a fireball in the middle of the barn. It was tough to make a decision not to charge in there and try to get the horses out," said Assistant Fire ChiefJohn Loser. 
Flames shot 50 feet into the air from the 400-foot-Iong barn and it took 200 firefighters more than an hour to contain the early morning blaze, said Fire Chief james Snadecky. 
Most of the horses suffocated in their 12-foot-by-12-foot stalls where they had been tied up for the night, said Loser. 
"They didn't have a chance," added Gene Martello, 34, a horse trainer who works in a neighboring barn. 

Two horses were rescued. One was Pleasant Sea, an offspring of Pleasant Colony, which won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness in 1981. 
Two firefighters, one suffering from smoke inhalation and the other with minor burns, were taken to Franklin General Hospital, Snadecky said. They were treated and released. 
Track officials issued a statement estimating the loss at $1 million for 

-the barn and from $500,000 to $5 million for the horses. Nassau County police officer Howard Burtt estimated the loss at up to $1 0 mil­lion. The track is the annual home of 
the Belmont Stakes, the third leg of the Triple Crown, horse racing's most prestigious honor. The horses were among more than 2,000 kept in 64 barns at the 430-acre complex on Long Island, although the track's racing season is over. 
The fire was first spotted by a night watchman who "saw flames coming out of a stall in the middle of the barn," said John Keenan, vice president of operations for the New York Racing Association. 
Although some of the horses might have been able to break out of their stalls, Keenan said that would have been unusual. "The nature of a horse is he considers that stable his home, and if something happens, he's more inclined to go into it than out," he said. 

Keenan said the sprinkler system's pipes burst last week when the tem­perature fell to near zero and "would have been repaired today or tomorrow." 
The barn contained a hay loft and Keenan said it was possible the hay caught fire through spontaneous combustion, an occasional hazard with stored hay. 
The cause of the fire was un­determined, but authorities found "nothing that indicates it would be suspicious," said Detective Lt. Wil­liam Gutersloh, head of the Nassau County arson squad. 
The Department ofTheatre and Communication Arts announces the 
Sprint~~ Film Serie• 
NEWLOWPRICES 
$1.50 individual admission to single.film season tickets and series tickets aoailable ata discount 
See calendar Insert for film t:l series llstln1s 
NEWPROJECTIONSYSTEM 
We arepleased to announce the installation ofanew 16mm. theatrical quality projector in the Annenburg Auditorium. 

---------------,.....------~------------~--~--...........-------~· 
The Observer Monday, january 20, 1986-page 11 


Lendl defeats Becker, wins Nabisco Masters 
As8ociated Pre88 ."1, at the moment, hold all three titles in your town, and I'm proud of 
NEW YORK · Rising to the chal­that," Lend I told the cheeringcrowd lenge, Ivan Lend!, the world's top· at Madison Square Garden. He ranked player, brushed aside the referred to the Masters, the U.S. latest pretender to Ws throne yester­open and the WCT Tournament of day, capturing the 1500,000 Champions, all of which are played Nabisco Masters tennis champion­in New York. Then he admitted that ships with a straight-set victory over the 18-year-old Becker is a force to West Germany's Boris Becker. be reckoned with. 
It was power against power, The two tested each other out to strength against strength. And, in the begin the match, preferring to end, nearly 2% hours after they had remain on the baseline, trading 
begun, Lend!, the 1985 U.S. open strong groundstrokes as they held champion, had handed the serve through the first four games. Wimbledon winner a 6-2, 7-6, 6-3 Then, raising his game to another lesson. level, Lendl ripped off four straight 
For the victory, Lend! earned games, breaking Becker in the fifth Sl00,000, while Becker collected and seventh games, to close out the 170,000. first set. After the seventh game, the 
Lend! also received a check for 18-year-old Becker, disgusted with 1800,000 as winner ofthe year-long, his play, slammed his racket to the worldwide Nabsico Grand Prix cir­floor. 
lt•an Lend/, shown bearat last year's U.S. Open in man wunderkind Boris Becker. Details appear at cuit, bringing his 1985 earnings to 
With shouts of encouragement in 

New York, returned to tbe Big Apple to capture the right. nearly S2 million. 
German comingfrom the crowd, Be­

Nabisco Masters Tournament. Lend/ defeated Ger­
cker held serve at I 5 to begin the 


second set, the final two points com­ing on his fourth and fifth aces ofthe 
match.  He  then  broke  Lendl's  
service  ·  only  the  second  time  
Lendl's  serve  had  been  broken  

during the tournament. 
Becker raced to a 3·0 lead when he held at 30, finishing the game with a smash. 
Lend! held to 5· 3, then broke Be­cker at 30. And when he held service in the lOth game, they were tied 5·5. 
Becker had a set point at 30-40 in the 12th game, but Lendl crushed his sixth ace, pulllng to deuce. 

WE WANT YOUR 
USED MUSIC 
Records * Cassettes* Compact discs 
CA$H OR TRADE 
Always a large selection ofguaranteed used albums and tapes and CD's. 
*** See Co-upon *** 
(f) : Discwasher Zerostat 3 Antistatic Gun 
B~ $5~fp only'1899 w/coupon
~I . 
~~-----------------------­
01 TDK $4oo
Ul off 
(f) 1 Head demagnetizer 

z: I only '1499 
ol------------------------1 
@;I Posters & T -Shirts 1 
Ql I
25 ., 

ul-/e Ioffw/coupon
I I 
Top40Aiwayson Q~ sale••• PLUS o"'~ bJ :-.1 ~ 
'b ;.-tt

Blow-out ~~~.to<""~~ BINS ~~~t~·"'~~~ 
1OO's ofnew, hot albums ~assics 
POSTERS& 
tOO's of your favorite artists 
in stock to wear or hang on the 
wall-· New Wave, Rock, Metal, 
Hard core. 
Any non-sale album, tape, or compact (f) 
I d~c$1.00off ~~ 
~-----------------------10 
I Kodak Film 18 
I 100 ASA, 24 exposure $239 I(f) 
I I z:
1 w/coupon 
1 

~-----------------------~0 
I -~~ 
: Maxell XL/190 or TDK SA 90 I ~ 
lwhenyoubuy6ormore.$l. 99 18 
I 
In New 'lt>t1t Slltr Sflnleoy H IUpYn (doci!IOI\tl C.enttt ltG TEST POIEAUIATION SPfCWJSTS SINCE NJ8 CALL DAYS, EVENINGS I WEEKENDS 
1717 E. South Bend A•e South Bend. Indiana •6637 (21 272-4135 
Wln$1,0001 
Poetry Contest 
A $1 ,(XXJ grand prize is being offered in World of Poetry's new poetry con­test, open to all students. There are 100 prizes in all. For a FREE list of rules and prizes, write ­
WORLD OF POETRY 2431 Stockton, Dept. CS Secremento, CA 95817 
:i=
:z .!:; [~ 
.... 
... 
:a:
Q. 
Q) ~~ 
(I)
a:s ~~ 
~ 
Q.. 
z 
~ 
~ I
~ I I u ... ~ 

The Observer Monday, january 20, 1986-page 12 
Irish to entertain Hofstra tonight, begin busy week of hoop action 
By MARlY BURNS 
AssistantSportsEdttor 
Many people feel it will be a real cakewalk tonight for the Notre Dame basketball team when It hosts Hofstra at 7:30 in the ACC. 
Maybe they better make that a birthday cakewalk. 
Sophomore guard David Rivers won't be blowing out candles but he may Indeed help the 10-21cish blow out the Flying Dutchmen as the flashy Notre Dame player celebrates his 21st birthday. In fact, If the talented floor leader has his way, he'll be the one dishing out all the presents -in the form ofpasses to his big teammates on the Irish frontline. 
Rivers will go to the frontcouct to take advantage of his team's height advantage over Hofstra. The Dutchmen, who ace a member ofthe East Coast Conference, do not have a player on the roster taller than 6-8 and probably will not start a player above 6-6. That should mean plenty of chances for Rivers to get the ball inside to power players Ken Barlow, Donald Royal and Tim Kempton. 
This advantage underneath the boards, along with the fact that head coach Dick Berg's squad returns only one senior starter from last year's 14-1 5 team, should make Rivers' party a happy one. Unless, of course, the Irish ace looking past the Dutchmen to Sunday's contest with top-ranked North Carolina. 

"This week North Carolina will be in the back of our minds," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps after Saturday's 74-64 win over UCLA. "But we have to be ready for the two games before then. We just have to keep playing the way we have been playing lately and treat Hofstra and American (on Wednesday) as we would any other game." 
If Phelps' team cannot keep its mind on the match at hand with Hofstra it could have problems. Al­though the Flying Dutchmen ace 7-7 this season, they ace coming off a 79­78 victory over Phelps' alma mater, Rider, and they most likely would be more than ready to take any gifts that the Irish would offer. 
Spearheading any efforts to pull off an upset will be 6-1 Hofstra guard, Leroy AUen. The former DeMatha High School star currently averages 13.3 points per game and, as Berg's best defensive player, probably will draw the unenviable task of guarding Rivers. 6-6, 200­pound forward Ron Miner, meanwhile, handles most of the of­fensive chores for the Dutchmen as he leads the team in scoring at a 14.6 ppg. clip to go with an average ofjust over seven rebounds per contest. 
Other notable Hofstra players in­clude 6-6, 210-pound forward Luke Murphy and 6-2 guard Greg Arnold. Murphy lends a consistent offensive weapon to the Dutchmen's attack, contributing 12.8 ppg and 3.4 rpg., while Arnold, another DeMatha product, plays at both the swing and point positions in the back court. 
One Hofstra player who has yet to make a big impact but who might someday, at least if bloodlines mean anything, is 6-5 freshman forward Gerald King. If that name sounds familiae to basketball fans, it should, as King's older brothers, Albert and Bernard, are NBA stars. 
Unfortunately for Hofstra, though, it will probably take a lot more than a famous last name to shock Notre Dame. After all, that would put a damper on Rivers' birthday party. 
St. Joseph's downs SMC, 79-70 
By LINDA BAILY 
Sports Writer 
Visiting Saint Joseph's College, an NCAA Division II school, handed the Saint Mary's basketball team their fifth loss of the season, 79-70, on Saturday in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Belles were led by sop­homore Tammye Radke, who con­tributed 22 points, followed by Jenny Harte and Beth Kreher with 14 points apiece. Kreher was also the top rebounder and led the team with five assists and as many steals. 
The scoring was fairly even throughout the first ten minutes of the game, but the Pumas took the lead, 25-13, after scoring eight un­answered points. By half time, the Belles were trailing by 13 points, 40­27. 
Despite the loss, Coach Marvin 

Wood was pleased with his team's 
performance. 
"SaintJoseph's did a lot ofrecruit­ing, and they have many top-flight players," said Wood. "Four of their players were invited to participate on the Indiana all-star team. 
"I'm not sure If it was our weaknesses or their strengths," con­tinued Wood. "They have great quickness, but we adjusted well. We fouled a lot. We tend to overplay on defense which sometimes puts us at a disadvantage." 
During the first half, the Belles gave the Pumas 13 trips to foul line while only going three times them­selves. Free throws proved to be the key as SaintJoseph's finished 19 of 24 from the line while the Belles could only cash in on 2 of 5 tosses. 
"We worked very baed but we didn't get all the breaks," said sop­homore Stephanie Duke. "We came within six or eight points near the end but we just couldn't get all the buckets to fall." The Belles im­proved their shooting from 34 per­cent to 64 percent in the second half. 
"Overall it was a good team ef­fort," said sophomore Sharon Repik. 
The Belles current record is 4-6, but they anticipate winning the Roundball Classic, their annual in­vitational tournament, scheduled to begin Friday night. 
The participants ace Grace Col­lege, Hope College and Purdue University-Calumet. "No one in the Classic will be as strong as Saint Joseph's was today," commented Wood. "I hope we can win it. This is our last opportunity to win a tournament." 
SMC fencing team finishes 1-2 over break 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 

I 
Sports Writer 
I The Saint Mary's fencing team I' stands at 1-2 after participating in its I first meets ofthe 1986season during I the semester break. The Belles along 
I 
with 1o other teams travelled to the

I 
University of Noeth Carolina for a twelve-team meet. 

~ 
I 
Saint Mary's faced Duke, North

I 
Carolina and North Carolina State.

I 
The Belles took their lone victory from the Blue Devils of Duke, 9-7, but feU to the Tacheels and the Wolfpack, by identical scores of 10­
6. The Belles placed twelfth overall against such national conterders as Temple, Penn State and Columbia. 

"The tournament allowed the team to gain experience for the season," commented Head Coach Mike Weeks. "It was a positive factor that will help in the following meets." 
The team consists of only two returning letter winners, seniors Ann Raney and Becca Barnett. The roster rounds out with little ex­perience, but talented athletes such as seniors Mary Beth Proost, Shan­nan Maughan and Mary Fran Wilkin should contribute greatly. Filling the sixth position is junior Laura Harris. Weeks can also look to 12 novices who work with the team, but did not travel to the tournament. 
The 48 bouts that took place left team member Proost with the best record of 5-5. Barnett and Raney followed with 4-7 slates, with Wilkin finishiing with a 3-7 record. Harris only claimed one victory for a 1-6 ledger, while Maughan's record is 1-3. 

"I expect to see progress as the year goes on," says Weeks. "I believe the team is capable of maintaining a .500 record." 
On their list of opponents, Saint Mary's faces such teams as Wiscon­sin, Minnesota, Michigan Dearborn, Northwestern and defending NCAA champion Wayne State. 
The team's next meet will be this weekend in Chicago. Their first home appearance will be Feb. I at theACC. 
Belles' swimming loses meet with Valpo 

The Obecrver/FIIc Photo 

Hofstra guard Leroy Allen (12) will spearhead the attack when the Flying Dutcbmen invade the ACC tonight at 7:30. Allen averages 13.3 points pergame and bas banded out 61 assist on the season. The Irish, meanwhile, will look to give guard David Rivers a birthdaypresent in theform ofa victory. 

Chinese, Vietnamese & American Food 
·Oriental Express 
Carry Out Dining Room 
272-6702 e' ~e 

6329 University Commons ~\0~ Just West ofUniversity Park Mall ~~ on State Road23, Next to Kroger 
Mon. & Weds.107.off wirhdiningroomcoupononty 
.................................,........... 
clip and save ·· ·-----------~-----­
INIAUGLES® ~~~~~~y6:00. Midnight 272-5455 
501 Dixleway North, Roseland. Indiana 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
MEXICAN KITCHEN AMERICAN KITCHEN 
Hamburger• -4 to a pound CUSTOM GRlll£D NOT STOCK Pfl.£D 

Reg. M•cho 
Taco 1.09 1.69 Burrito• Naugleburger 1.99 
Bean I.79 2.49 2 Patties with the WOfks Meal 2.39 3.29 double cheese Combo 2.09 2.79 Cheese 1.89 2.59 
Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 
2 Patties VJith lettuce, tomato, mayo dressing 

Make any burrito wet for 50 cents!! 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a 
pound of goodies! Hamburger 1.19 2 Patties IMth pk:kle. ketchup,
Nacho• & CheeH 1.19 
mustard, onion

Have some sauce for no extra cMrge to spk:e them add cheese .20 
up that much more. 

Macho Nacho'• 2.19 DESSERTS Rehied beans, chips. cheese, peppers, mild meat 
Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orarige
~uce. spicy green sauce! 
Blueberry • Chocolate • Chary • Vanilla • Root Beer 

Toatada Grande 3.29 Shakeo 1.09 lin a shell · wonderful) Sundae• 1.49 Rog. Plan" Fudge Brownie .69 Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Paatry .69 Toatada Combo 1.59 2.09 Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 Chile Ole' .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 DRINK UP! Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
ColdBewra-Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders. 
12 oz.•.64 20 oz...79 32 oz...94 

Want It a special way just order it! Pepsi. Diet Pepsi. Root Beer, Mt. Dew Enchilada•o (Platter of 2) Dr. Pepper. Welches. Sunktst. Lemonade Meat -lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 
lee Tea, Milk, Orange Juice 

Chicken 2.50 Hot Beverage• · .47 
Coffee, Hot Chocolate. Hoi Tea
DINNERS 

•i Enchilada · I chicken. I beef 
SIDE ORDERS 
•2 MachO Taco 
French Frlea .99 Retried Beana .99 
•3 
Meat Burrito 

•4 
CheeH Burrito & Taco 



with chlll eauce .99 Complete with Mexican salad, refrled beans, chill & .39
Nacho Chlpa . 

cheese, guacamole, sour cream & a pile of chips. 
Guacamole Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 Adinner with enough left over lor tomorrow's LUNCH! Sour Cream .25 
4.79 ., Extra cheeH: for anything .50 
Plus tax on prtces -$5.00 minimum order 
.__...._________ clip and save··---------..-.­
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team dropped its record to 1-1 Friday night at the Rockne Memorial Swim­ming Pool, losing to Valparaiso, 70.5-40.5. 
According to Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz, the Belles swam well but simply could not keep up with the Valparaiso team. 
"Our overall times improved from our last meet, but (Valparaiso) was just better," Kuzmitz said. 
Despite the loss, the team did well in several events. Among the first place finishers for the Belles was sophomore Meghan Rafferty, who won the 100-meter backstroke with a time of 1:07.05 and the 100-meter freestyle with a time of0:59.00. 

In the 200-meter freestyle event, senior Joyce Murtagh came in second with a time of 2:08.68, and freshman Kiernan Walter tied for third place. 
Peggy Halloran, a freshman, captured second place in the 500­meter freestyle with a time of 
5:59.82 and finished third in the 1650-meter freestyle event. Tanya Reeves, also ~ freshman, tooksecond in the 2QO-yacd Individual medRy­with a time of 2:35.10 and placed third in the 100-meter butterfly. 
Junior Mary Fisher finished second in the 5o-meter freestyle event with a time 0:28.02, while Murtagh took third. Margaret Man­nion, a junior, placed third in the 100-yacd breastroke. 
In the relay events, the team ofFis­her, Juckniess, Murtagh and Rafferty captured first place in the 200-meter freestyle with a time of 1:50.20, while the 200-yacd medley team of Juckniess, Mannion, Rafferty and Reeves finished second with a time of2:05.39. 
Freshman Bridget Murphy placed second in the--eiving competition with 13 7.30 points. 
The Belles' next meet is January 29 at Kalamazoo, Mich., against Kalamazoo College. 
.......___________________________ 
~~­

The Observer Monday, january 20, 1986-page 13 


the UCLA center Haley who was the coach. "We have him facing the bas­victim of Kempton's ire. ket where he can get his confidence
Kempton 
Less than two minutes Into the and then we send him Inside. People game, Kempton took a retaliatory are finally starting to realize that
continuedfrom page 16 
swing at Haley. Besides giving Kempton Is a scoring f:actor for Kempton said. "It's disheartening. Kempton his first foul a,nd UCLA its Notre Dame." It's hard to take because these are first point of the game on the two Before the season began, the people I live with and see in shots for an intentional foul, the Kempton realized the importance class. brief outburst let Kempton make a confidence can play and made a 
point to Haley. decision to work on that part of his "But it's something you have to 
"The first two or three times game.
learn to expect after you sign your down court, Haley was sticking an "I resolved myself to work on the name on that line (of a letter-of­elbow In my neck. I wanted to set mental part of my game," he ex­intent), especially when you aren't the record straight. It wasn't to hurt plained. "I really was going to work living up to everyone's expecta­him, but I wanted to let him know he on my confidence and playing to mytions. Still, it's something you have wasn't going to be doing that the ability. Confidence just builds more to overcome." 
entire game, and nothing more was confidence." said or done after that," Kempton No doubt, Kempton has lots of
Earlier this season, it looked like said. confidence now.
Kempton might have more than the Kempton's primary success Satur­S.turday'a RMUita
wrath of the fans to overcome. Sop­
Notre Dame 74, UCLA 64
day was inside, but he also had a

homore Gary Voce was giving him UCLA(64)good game outside. Two of his four FT-A
quite a run in practice for the start­M FG-A R F P second-half field goals came from Miller 37 8-14 1-1 4 4 17
ing center spot. long range. And while Kempton con­Jackson 38 1-4 o-o 3 4 2 Haley 32 2-3 1-2 6 4 5
"Gary really pushed me," said sistently shoots, and makes, such 
Hatcher 40 11-22 o-o 3 3 22

Kempton, whose parents were on outside shots in practice, the events Richardson 40 7-10 2-2 1 3 16 hand for the game. "He's big and of his freshmen and sophomore Jones SQ-OQ-0010 strong, and he pushes me every seasons made him consider taking Rochetin 71-1 Q-0102 day." 
200 30-54 4-5 18 111 64
those shots in games. 
FG Pet. .556. FT Pet. -.800. Team 
"As a freshman, I just played with 
rebounds -4. Turnovers -14. Assists -18

Saturday, Kempton firmly es­
my back to the basket," Kempton (Richardson 7). Technicals-none.
tablished himself as the No. l man said. "Then, as a sophomore, people Non Dame(74)
with a number of key baskets. The M FG-A FT·A R F P
learned how to play me and I forced

biggest was his three-point play with Royal 33 3-5 o-o 10 1 6
things. That forced me to shoot the Barlow 32 6-14 2-2 3 2 14
8:39 remaining in the game to erase 
ball from the outside. Kempton 30 8-12 4-5 10 3 20 
a one-point UCLA lead and put the "I make them in practice all the Rivera 36 6-12 9-13 2 3 21 
Irish up for good, 52-50. Kempton Stevenson 26 4-7 1-2 1 1 9
time."

made a power move to the basket, Hicks 5 1-2 o-o 0 0 2 
Yet, it's confidence that breeds 
Beeuwsaert 2 o-1 o-o 1 o o

drew a foul from the Bruins' Jack making outside shots in a game, and Price 14 1-3 o-o 3 o 2Haley and the ball dropped. 
that is something which Kempton Dolan 22 Q-2 o-o 3 2 0 
200 2&-58 1&-22 33 12 74

"That's supposed to be my role," has lacked at times in his career. 
FG Pet. .500. FT Pet. -.727. Team Kempton said. "I'm supposed to get rebounds -3. Turnovers -12. Assists -17
Phelps' confidence in his big center 

those points. It felt really good to do never wavered, though. (Rivers 8). Technicals ·none. it." "I have always believed that he Halftime -Notre Dame 39, UCLA 27. Offi­cials-Art Willard. Terry Kuhl, Sid Rodeheller
Ironically, earlier in the day it was can play the game," said the Irish 
(all Mid-American). A-11,345 (c). 

Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
the vicwry -but not before the Bruins mounted an impressive com­eback. 
Notre Dame led by as many as 14 points In the first half and took a 39­27 edge to the lockcrroom at inter­mis.~ion. But the Irish were cold In the early minutes of the second half, 
in State Government. 

and UCLA went on a 23-10 tear in the first 11 minutes to take a 50-49 lead. 
But Kempton converted a big three-point play on Notre Dame's next possession to give the Irish a 52-50 lead, which they never relin­quished. 
It was Kempton's success all after­noon that keyed the Irish win. At 245 pounds, the 6-9 Kempton had the size to outmuscle UCLA's 6-10, 

512. Medium PIZZA (any topping)I 
! with extra cheese
•
•
i PLUS 
•
! Garlic Bread with cheese 
:• 
Delivery Orders Only
• 
(plus delivery and tax)
:.:• $5.25 
•
i Limited Delivery Area
. • . ~......._._
• ~to ~ UVUIGURII-~ 
5 .._o01,!~ ~Pizza 
: &~
•
• 
: 52929 a.a.311'bth 
: --.--·---­
! 277-5880 
! Good/or Sundays and Mondays : only witla coupon
e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
• 
•
! 
•
i
•; • 
=.= 
•
•
: 
: 
!• :
•
•
• 
: : ! 
i 
: 
I 

220-pound centerJack Haley. It was a matchup that Irish head coach Dig­ger Phelps belived he could exploit. 
"We felt we wanted to go inside on UCLA," Phelps said afterwards. "We saw the way they played against Arizona State last Thursday and we saw they were an explosive team. We lost the 14-point lead for that reason. We wanted to control Mon­te! Hatcher and Reggie Miller of­fensively and also Pooh Richardson. We didn't lose our composure, we got key defensive rebounds when we needed them and we got the points we needed at the end. 
I think the four seniors have shown a lot of maturity recently on the road and today. Uke Jim Dolan ­he had two key plays today and that's his role now, to come up with those key plays." 
Bruins' head coach Walt Hazzard praised his team afterwards, but was bitter in his statements about the of­ficials. 
"I'm very proud of my team this afternoon," Hazzard said. "They put out a courageous effort. Abreak here or there and we would have won it. Now we want to go back to the Pac­10 and do well, and then maybe somewhere down the road we'D meet Notre Dame at a neutral site, and then we'll see what happens. 
"This game was very physical at one end of the court. I thought the officials missed some important out­of-bounds calls -one where Dolan had both feet come down out-of­bounds in front of the scorer's table, and two others right on the baseline in front of our bench. But those are the things you expect on the road ­especially in this game. 
"And when we were down by two points and Miller was fouled by Dolan," continued Hazzard, "the whole world saw it but we didn't get the call. But when you play on the road that's the way it goes." 
Hazzard, who saw his team out­rebounded by a 36-22 margin, probably wishes he had a player like Kempton in the middle. 
"Kempton is a very good basket­ball player," said the UCLA coach. "We don't have that big center who can get every rebound and really come off the boards, but some day we will. Haley has only played bas­ketball for three years and here he is playing on national television. In high school when everyone else was playing basketball, he was surfing. 
"But when Notre Dame comes out next year, they'D see some big players," Hazzard said, adding that the Bruins had signed two 6-11 players and another 6-8 recruit for next season. 
But Notre Dame's concern right now is tonight's game with Hofstra and Wednesday's contest with American, two games which the Irish players could easily be looking past -considering they face top­ranked North Carolina on Sunday. 
"We're playing at home this week and North Carolina is in the back of our minds," Phelps said. "But we're going to be getting ready for the next two games. We can't have a let­down and we need to do the things we have to do Monday and Wednes­day before North Carolina." 

IRISH ITEMS -Kempton turned In his most productive outing since the '83-'84 season, when he scored 20· points In a second-round NIT 
game  against  Boston  College  
Hazzard  said  afterwards  
that  "because  of  the  Pac-1 0  

postseaon tournament next year we may not play Notre Dame again." The Bruins would have to drop one non-conference game from their schedule In order to play in the tournament . Steve Brelsford hit the second ofhis two free throws at halftime to successfully complete his "Sports Fantasy." Brelsford, of Fort Wayne, Ind., had the fanusy of shooting a pair of free throws for In­diana with the score tied and no time left on the clock, and the Notre 
Dame student body In the back­ground. NBC will air the taped f:an­usy on Sportsworld on March 2. 

Thomas denies rumors of retiring 
PONTIAC, Ml -Islah Thomas, denying reports that he has con­sidered retiring from professional basketball at the age of 24, is being helped through some trying times by friend Magic Johnson of the Los Angeles Lakers. 
Thomas, a Detroit Pistons guard, 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, a headline in Friday's paper incor­rectly stated the result ofthe bas­ketball game between Saint Mary's and Tri-State. 
Tri-State beat the Belles, 87-75, Thursday night in the Angela Ath­letic Facility. 
scored 18 points and was credited with 10 assists before fouling out yesterday in the Pistons 118-11 5 Na­tional Basketball Association victory overJohnson and the Lakers. 
The victory was only the Pistons' seventh in their last 22 games. At times during the team's slump, there have been reports that Thomas, who is in the midst of a long-term con­tract with Detroit, considered qulting. 
Thomas said after yesterday's game he is not thinking about retire­ment. 
"When you lose, something's wrong. When you win, everything's OK," said Thomas, who played two years at Indiana University before turning pro as a hardship case. "When you win, what else matters? 
"Over the last five, six games, we've been playing good basketball. That all comes down to mental preparation for the game. You have to prepare yourself to play hard every night." 
Johnson told a CBS interviewer that he had considered quitting recently, but that his spirits were lifted when Magic sent him some balloons. 

Thomas said Johnson told him over the telephone: "don't you remember when we had nothing?" referring to their childhood days, and Thomas said it was the call that helped keep him from quitting. The Interview was shown before yester­day's game and had been taped on Saturday, a Pistons' spokesman said. 
Thomas and Johnson, a 6-year NBA veteran, are close friends off the court. They conduct summer basketball camps together and often practice In the off-season at Mic­higan State University, Johnson's alma mater. 
-------------~--~-------------------------~----------------------~--------~--~-----------------.---­
The Observer Monday, January 20, 1986-page 14 
ND wrestlers defeat Dlinois State; Frosh continue to play large role 
By RICK RIETBROCK really gives your team a big lift." pounds, Dave Carlin posted a 13-6 sports Writer juniors Carl Hildinger and Dave victory, and jerry Durso continued Helmer posted instrumental vic­to impress while improving his 
Coach Fran McCann's young tories for the Irish. Hildinger, started record to 25-6 with a technical fall wrestling squad continued enjoying the match by winning 8-3 at 118 win. success while gaining valuable ex­pounds, while Helmer posted an up­Pat Boyd won by major decision pierence by beating Illinois State at set victory at 190 pounds. at 142 pounds and Chris Geneser 
the ACC Saturday. The Irish avenged "Hildinger's win was a big one for won a superior decision at 167 last season's 37-6loss at the hands of us," McCann said. "His opponent pounds. the Redbirds by taking a 24-15 vic­had beaten some people to whom tory. Carl had lost, but Carl just went out With six freshmen in his starting 
McCann said he expected a close and dominated him. That really got lineup, McCann is placed into an match which made it necessary to the momentum going for us. awkward situation of counting get good performances from many "Helmer beat his man 11-4 after heavily upon his younger wrestlers. dillerent sources. losing to him by twelve last year. "In most matches, you have cer­
"Going into any match, there are Those are the types ofperformances tain matches where you have to some matches that you figure you we need to win close matches." score big," McCann continued, "We should win," McCann explained. The brunt ofthe charge, however, put that pressure on the freshmen. "But when you can come top in was once again carried by McCann's Guys like Boyd, Durso and Geneser some ofthe other matches as well, it fine group of freshmen. At 126 are expected to produce." 
Hockey splits pair with Dearborn; Smith threatens team with changes 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN to keep pressure on the Wolves in night earned him the starting assign­Sports Writer their own zone. When Dearborn did ment on Saturday. But if the Irish break out, Guay was there to come didn't set anyone on fire Friday, on 
Two Notre Dame hockey teams up with some big stops. Saturday they looked as if they had The Notre Dame wrestling team defeated the Redbirds from 11­played at the ACC this weekend. The After Dearborn's Mike Humitz forgotten their lighters. The Irish linots State Saturday at theACC, 24-15. The win avenged lastyear's first utilized strong forechecking tied the score at 14:53 of the first, could do nothing right as Dearborn , 37-6Redbird win. Rick Reitbrock details allofSaturday's action in and suberb goaltending to beat the Rich Sobilo put the Irish back in was in control from the opening his story appearing at left. visiting Wolves of Michigan­front at the 17:22 mark with a faceoff to the final horn. While Guay Dearborn Friday night, 5-1. The power-play score. Mike McNeill and allowed seven goals, his play was not 
Carolina nips Marquette, 
second team did next to nothing Dave Waldbillig had the other Irish as bad as that might indicate. He right and lost 7-1. With the split, the scores, with goals in the second and simply had little help in front ofhim. Irish season record fell to 8-13-1. third periods, respectively. The Wolves jumped out to a 3-0 Notre Dame one week away The split enabled the Wolves to take The game was interrupted twice lead by 9:08 ofthe middle period on the season series from the Irish by a in the third period because offights. two goals by Rick Osburn and anot­Assodatcd Press Michael Sims scored 12 of his 16 3-1 margin, and their season record The first came at 7:42 and involved her by Paul O'Bryan. Mark An­
points in the second halfto lead Mar­stands at 11-13. Notre Dame's Roy Bemiss and the quillare got the Irish on the board at MILWAUKEE -Guard Kenny quette, which fell to 11-5. "We can't stand prosperity," com­Wolves' Scott Davenport. Both were the 13:08 mark with a power-play Smith converted two free throws Marquette had won seven of its mented Head Coach Lefty Smith given game disqualification goal. From then on, though, the only with three seconds remaining yes­last eight starts. North Carolina after Saturday's loss. "We absolutely penalties which meant they suspense in the game was if Osburn 
terday to lift top-ranked and un­defeated Duke 95-92 Saturday in a stunk." wouldn't see action on Saturday. would complete his hat trick. He did 
beaten North Carolina to a 66-64 battle of undefeated Atlantic Coast Notre Dame was comingoff a road The Irish were already without the with 25 seconds left to play in the nonconference basketball victory Conference teams. trip on which they hadn't exactly services of Brent Chapman and jeff game, scoring the Wolves' final goal over Marquette. The Tar Heels, ahead by two given a good showing. After Friday Badalich, who received similar of the evening. Tim Osburn, Ron 
The Tar Heels, 19-0, trailed by points at halftime, went on a 13-6 night's win, The Irish looked as if penalties on the road trip. The Duda and Mike Grodus had the ot­nine points with a little over four streak to open the second half. Theythey had gotten the memories ofthe second stoppage involved several her Dearborn scores. minutes remaining before their held a 45-361ead with 14:53 remain­trip completely out of their minds. members of both teams, but no After the game, an obviously pressure defense keyed a comeback ing on a steal and layup by Steve 
Bob Thebeau scored for the Irish major penalties were handed out. angry Smith threatened changes in front of a sellout crowd at Mil­Hale. with just 13 seconds gone in the first Smith was happy to get the win, would be made. waukee Arena and a national televi­North Carolina went on to open a period, and the Irish took control but still showed concern about his "We're going to sit back and sion audience. 
47-37lead.Hut ·•~ I'·' • tt> reeled off from there. Thebeau finished the squad's play. reevaluate exactly who will and who Brad Daugherty of North Carolina 14 straight pPints for a ">o·-47 lead game with another goal and a pair of "Naturally it was extemely good won't be playing," Smith said. "As of led all scorers with 20 points, while with 8:34 left . assists, but it was the goaltending of to get the win after four lousy right now I can tell you that there senior Marc Guay that got rave losses," said Smith. "At the same will be a lot of people fighting for 
reviews Friday. time, I didn't feel we set the world jobs." ••••• ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Guay finished the night with 32 on fire out there tonight. Ifit wasn't Smith and his squad have two • ACAP : saves and, except for the one Dear­for Marc Guay I don't what would weeks off before a weekend home­• ADULT CHILDREN OF ALCOHOLIC PARENTS • born goal, played a near flawless have happened at times out there. and-home series with Lake Forest. • • game. Part ofthe credit for this must (He) played tremendously." The big question will be which go to his teammates who managed Guay's performance on Friday Notre Dame team will see action. 
:Mondays....... 5:30-6:30 pm : 
• Counseling &Psycholog1col Services Center • : Room 316 : 
•• Does someone significant to you have a drinking •• • problem? Does It affect you? Maybe we can help. • • Call 239-5085 


1be Oblcrvcr/Hannet Hacker 
Notre Dame goaltender Marc Guay makes one of Guayas the Irish lost, 7-1, onSaturday. DennisCor­32 saves tn Friday's 5-1 victory over the vistttng rigan bas the complete weekend hockey rundown Michigan-Dearborn. Tbtngs weren't so easy for In his arttcle above. 
SPRING FILM SERIES 
The following films will all be projected In the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snlte this week: 
Stairway ta H•av•n 
Quite possibly the greatest British 
film ever mn'ie. Dlrecle• l by Michael 
Powell of fli-t·"'-fame. this 
Cabiria Man•••aa 
The justly famous 1913 

Italian epic spectocle. A 
must for film fan of any 
stripe. 
Man.7:DD 
enchantt11g 111m stars David Niven as a pilot caught in more than one sense be· tween heaven and earth. 
Th• Brath•rfram Anath•r Plan•t 
Fri. 7:DDIHI:!ID 
John r~ .rlt'o '!f.,..; Sayle's sci-fi comedy about on extroterrestlol's allegorical trip through Harlem after crash landing In New York Horp_9L_ __ 

NEW LOW PRICES! $1.50 individual admission per film. New 16mm theatrical quality projection facilities. Watch for the upcoming latin series 
~c:tcJI.at~---------------------------------------M-o_n_da•y-,J•a-n-ua_cy._2_o_,1_9_8_6_-_Pa•g•e•l-5
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Snakes 5 Boca­

10 Nimble 14 Honshu city 15 Public 
storehouse 16 Operatic solo 17 Impales 19 Candle part 20 Art Item 21 Mottled 23 Parents 24 Moroccan 
prince 26 Ooze 28 Bump 31 Beetle 34 Bickering 39 Jaci·knlfa 40-avis 41 Tomtoms 43 So be It 44 Monad 45 Therapy 47 One Ewing 50 Inner: pref. 51 Turk. city 53 Histories 58 Sombrero or 
fez 60 Lily bulbs 63 Gr. colony 64 Essayist 66 Author's work 68 Fabled birds 69 Lifeless 70 Fr. girlfriend 71 Lectern 72 A NY governor 73 Pops 
DOWN 1 Poker stakes 2 Vaughan of 
song 3 Green 
chalcedony 4 More logical 5 Ump'skln 6 On toes 7 Vehicle 8 Premieres 9 Snuggle 

10 Adage 11 TV hours 
© 1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
12 Costa­13 Tibetan oxen 18 Pitch 22 Painting 25 Make origami 27 Honored lady 29 Ground 30 Harden: var. 32 Tied 33 Tom 34 Gift cover 35 Pro­36 Fragrant 
plants 37 Designated 38 Fads 42 "Family" 
Thompson 46 Quinine 
water 48-Palmas 49 Thln·blooded 52 Guam capital 54 Defense 
acronym 55 Soul 

Friday's Solution 
56 Greasy 59 Afr.llly compound 61 Lulu 
57 Satisfies 62 Certain completely 65 Inquire 
58 Cowgroup 67 Porcine pen 
Campus 
•4:00 
· 5:00P.M. · Meeting, S.O.A.P. -Students on Alcohol Problems, Room 316 Counseling & Psychological Services Center 

•5:30 
· 6:30 P.M. -Support Group, ACAP/ALANON (Adult Children of Alcoholic Parents, Sponsored by Room 316 Counseling & Psychological Services Center 

•7:00 
P.M. · AcademJc Meeting, Foreign Study Program in China, Dr. Dian Murray, Notre Dame, Room 242 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Foreign Study Program 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Salisbury Steak Stir Fry Chicken Fettuccini Alfredo 
TV Tonight 
6:00P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 16 NBC Nightly News 22 CBS Evening News 28 ABC's World News Tonight 16 M"A"S"H 22 Three's Company 28 Jeopardy 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP In Cincinnati 28 Wheel ofFortune 16 TV Bloopers & Jokes 22 Scarecrow & Mrs. King 28 Hardcastle & McCormick 34 WONDERWORKS: "Booker" 
46  Calvary Temple  
16  All·Star  Celebration  Honoring  
Martin Klngjr.  
22  Kate & Allie  

28 Movie: "Prince of Bel Air" 34 American Playhouse: "The Rise 
•7:00 
P.M. · Monday Night FUm Series I, "S~irway to Heaven," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M.. Teleconference, "A Report on the Extraordinary Synod," CCE Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame 

•9:00 
P.M.. Monday Night FUm Series II, "Caliria," Annenberg Auditorium 


Saint Mary's Baked Ham Beef& Vegetable Stir Fry French Bread Pizza Assorted Cheese & Fruit Tray 
9:30P.M. 
10:00 P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12A.M. 12:30A.M. 2:00A.M. 

and Fall ofDaniel Rocket" 34 Lesc:a Alive 16 Newhan 22 cagney & Lacey 46 Church Growth International 34 Summer's End 46 Ught & Uvely 16 NewsCenter 16 22 Eyewitness News 28 Newswatch 28 34 Body Electric 46 Praise the Lord 16 Tonight Show 22 Remington Steele/"The Class of Miss MacMichacl" 
28 ABC News Nlghtllne 
34 StarTrek 
46 

28 Eye on Hollywood 
16 David Letterman 
22 Nlghtwatch 
46 Independent Network News 
SPRINGBREAK 

LUV the Sun? 7 nights I 8 days in Ft. Lauderdale, Daytona or the Islands 

11001 361·2006 TOl.L t'RU: 

................................................................................................................................ 
S.O.A.P ~ 
Students on Alcohol Problems 
Meeting on Mondays at 4:oopm. Counseling &Psychological Serv1ces Center rm. 316 Do you have some ideas about alcohol? Would you like to share them with other students who may also be like you? 
Call239-5085 or stop by C.8tPSC. (Monl
............................................................................................................................... 

Allftf'r'ATTENTION HEALTH CONSCIOUS STUDENTS TREAT YOURSELF TO 
YOGI'S YOGURT 
COLOMBOS NATURALLY GOOD FOR YOU WITH ALMOST 1h THE CALORIES OF ICE CREAM OPEN 11 :30 9:30 PM MON-SAT ST. RD. 23, NE CORNER OF IRONWOOD (across from Martins) 
Monday,January 20, 1986-page 16
SRorts 
Notre Dame holds off UCLA rally, wins 74-64 
Rivers leads Irish, scores 21 
By LARRY BURKE 
AssistantSports Editor 
UCLA is a team whose g;eat win­ning tradition was built in large pan around some oustanding centers ­guys like Lew Alcindor and Bill Wal­ton. But when the Bruins tookon the Irish in the ACC Saturday afternoon, it was Tim Kempton, Notre Dame's big man in the middle, who ended up stealing the show. 
Kempton turned in his best game 
since his sophomore year, pouring 
in 20 points on an 8-of-12 shooting 
day and pulling down 10 rebounds, 
as Notre Dame beat UCLA Saturday, 
74-64, delighting a capacity crowd 
of 11,345. 
The redheaded senior had some 
help, though. Sophomore guard 
David Rivers scored 21 points on 6­
of-12 shooting from the field and 9­
of-13 from the line, dishing out eight 
assists. Senior captain Ken Barlow 
added 14 points. 
Sophomore Donald Royal and 
senior Jim Dolan turned in solid 
defensive efforts to keep UCLA's star 
forward Reggie Miller under con­
trol. Royal also pulled down 1 0 
rebounds in 33 minutes, and Dolan 
helped the Irish break UCLA's 
second half press, and grabbed two 
key boards after a pair of Rivers' 
missed free throws to help perserve 
see IRISH, page 13 


Kempton dominates, has 20 points 
ByJEFF BLUMB 
Sports Editor 
As the final four seconds ticked off the clock, he stood in the backcourt and cradled the ball tightly against his body. Three UCLA players circled in a futile, last-ditch effort for a victory. 
But Tim Kempton would have no part ofit. It was his ball, and it was his ball game. 
And while this was not the first tim·e Kempton had turned in a big performance during his career at Notre Dame, even he admitted it had been a long time since the last one. 
"I haven't played very well the last couple years," he said after scoring 20 points and grabbing 10 rebounds to key Notre Dame's 74-64 win over UCLA Saturday. "People might be surprised at how well I played today, but Coach Phelps and my teammates have always been behind me 100 percent." 
The Notre Dame student body, however, has not always been be­hind the senior center. Over the course of Kempton's career, all too often from the student section has he heard the boos and seen the raised arms mocking a dropped pass. 

He heard and saw, although he tried not to, and it hun. Times like that made it frustrating Irish center Tim Kempton dishes off as UCLA's Dame's victory. Larry Burke bas game details at for Kempton, and his confidence jack Haley defends. Kempton scored 20 points in left, andjeffBlumb details Kempton's role at right. 
see KEMPTON, page 13 

Saturday's game and was instrumental/ in Notre 


Irish women split weekend series with Detroit, Boston U. 
ByMIKE SZVMANSKI with 21 points while Sandy Botham Sports Writer pulled down 9 rebounds and hit for 16 points. Mary Gavin led the Irish 
The Notre Dame women's basket­offensive attack by dishing out five ball team won convincingly against assists. Detroit, 72-58, on Friday, but lost a In the first half, errant passing and heartbreaker in their last indepen­missed shots plagued Notre Dame dent game ofthe season against Bos­along with a disruptive Detroit zone ton University, 72-70, on Sunday at defense. Then an aggresive Irish theACC. man-to-man defense shut down the 
The Irish won their first North Lady Titans' scoring for the last Star Conference game against rival seven minutes, and the Irish led 26­Detroit in a physical, foul-ridden 23 on a 30-foot DiondraToney jump 
contest. shot. 
_"This was a good game for us, but In the second halt; Heidi Bunek not very pretty," said Head Coach scored 11 points and came down Mary DiStanislao. "The flow of the with 9 rebounds to rally her team. game was disrupted by too many Bunek, in her first game since a violation-type calls." stress-fracture injury, was especially 
Trena Keys was the high scorer effective in the paint against the 
Holtz assigns staff 
Specal to the Observer 

Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz recently revealed the specific on-field duties ofhis assistant coaches. 
On the offensive side, Vinny Cerrato will coach the quarterbacks, Pete Cordelli will direct the receivers and Mike Stock will handle the running backs. Tony Yelovlch will coach the offensive lineman, while George Stewart will handle the tight ends as well as help out with the offensive linemen. 
Defensively, the inside linebackers will be coached by defensive coordinator Foge Fazio, while Kurt Schottenheimer will handle the outside linebackers. Joe Yonto will direct the defensive lineman, while Terry Forbes will handle the secondary. 
George Kelly, inside linebacker coach for the last 17 years, will serve as an assistant coach under Holtz "in charge of the overall football program," Holtz said. Holtz emphasized that Kelly's role was not that of an administrative assistant -the role Yonto played on Faust's staff. 
"He'll be in charge of film evaluation -sometimes called quality control," Holtz said. "He'll help tie in people from the outside, actively work in the recruiting process and evaluate talent. He'll evaluate the overall situation." 
Kelly will be on the field "depending on the situation and where he feels his priorities are at that time. "He was selected because of his football knowledge and because ofhis knowledge about Notre Dame." 
Detroit zone defense. 
"Her comeback was strong and 
timely indeed," said DiStanislao. 
The Irish controlled the tempo and forced Detroit to take unwise perimeter shots. They effectively broke the Detroit press and hit key free throws down the stretch to seal the victory. 
"Detroit is a very solid team with good talent. This is our first con­ference game and it was crucial for us to go out and play hard," said DiS­tanislao. 
"I think we found out quite a lot abput ourselves on our Christmas break trip to Miami and Rutgers. We found out that we have to play the entire 40 minutes ofa game. We also found out that you can't bringpart of your game one night and another part the next night. 
"We learned those lessons the hard way," continued DiStanislao, "and now we're going to have to go out and play with intensity every time on the floor ifwe want a shot at the NCAA tournament. We have a chance to make the tournament, but first we have to win the Nonh Star Conference and that means playing 40 minutes each night." 
Against Boston, the Irish received another one of those tough lessons as they came up shon, blowing a nine-point second-halflead against a team with which they matched up well. 
Notre Dame used. effective inside passing and good offensive rebound­ing while trying to force the ball inside the paint. The Terriers, however, rallied with perimeter shooting late in the half to close the gap to 35-32. 
The Irish continued their inside game in the second half, getting good second shots off the boards and running a· smooth transition game to take a 9-point lead with 10 minutes left. 
The Terriers found the seems in Notre Dame's man-to-man, ball­denial defense and climbed back into the lead. Boston applied a full coun press that befuddled the Irish, who could not handle tough passes. 
Boston hit important free throws in the last three minutes as the Irish tried to foul. Notre Dame drew to within at 7 4-72, but could not steal the last inbound pass. 
DiStanislao very concisely and correctly described Notre Dame's second half difficulties when she described her squad's performance as "flat." Keys was once again the high scorer with 18 points and 6 rebounds, while Botham scored 14 and grabbed 1 1 rebounds. 
IRISH ITEMS... Freshman Usa Kuhns is out for at least a week with an injury to her right foot suffered against Detroit... Denise Basford, a senior guard, is academically in­eligible for the remainder of the '85­'86season. 


Irishforward Lavetta Willis finds thegoing tough underneath in Friday's 72-58 victoryoverDetroit. Mike Szymanski details the win as well as yesterday's 74-72 loss to Boston University tn his story above. 




