
Peace Corps-page 3 


Wishful thinking 
Juniors Ron Overbiser, left, and Jim Direnzo, right, cheered on tbe Irish in East Lansing, Michigan, Saturday, during Notre Dame's 20-15 loss to Michigan State. Although the pair give 
Oble"or/llm CuroD 
tbe number one signal, tbe Irish are expected to drop out of the Associated Press' top twenty poD this week. 
Aquino visits her alma mater and receives school's highest award 
Associated Press where she and her husband had neighbors stood in the rain in 
worshiped during his self-imposed Newton to wave to Mrs. Aquino 
NEW YORK --Philippine Presi­exile in the early 1980s. when she visited her former home, dent Corazon Aquino returned Later, Mrs. Aquino was to now a museum to her husband. yesterday to her alma mater after receive an honorary degree from Mrs. Aquino smiled and waved as a visiting the suburban Boston house Fordham University and address neighbor shouted "Madam Presi­she shared with her husband before Filipinos in the United States. dent, welcome home!" but ignored he returned to the Philippines and About 10,000 Filipino-Americans reporters' questions. was assasinated. from the New York City area were Inside the house, Mrs. Aquino 
Mrs. Aquino was taken to the expected to attend. met privately with board members College of Mount St. Vincent, from Four of the Philippine presidents of the Benigno S. Aquino Memorial which she had graduated in 1953, since the country's independence in Foundation. and was awarded the school's 1946 have received honorary doc­"It was a little bit emotional for highest honor, the Elizabeth Seton torates .from Fordham. Marcos her" to visit the house, said board Medal. was not among them, said Fordham member Ceferino Bague. "It was 
President Joseph A. O'Hare, a nice to have her back." 
She and her former classmates Jesuit priest. At St. Ignatius, Cardinal Bernard met for about 20 minutes, posing Mrs. Aquino also was scheduled Law noted parallels between the for a class photo and discussing to address the United Nations on Philippine and Polish struggles for children, careers and school Monday. freedom and presented Mrs. memories, including Aquino's per­In Newton, Mrs. Aquino remov­Aquino with a replica of the pain­formances of Filipino dances on the ed her glasses and wiped away a ting of Our Lady of Chetochowa, same stage from which she spoke tear at St. Ignatius when a choir Poland's black madonna. yesterday. sang a song her husband used to Earlier in her U.S. tour, Mrs. 
Aquino said that when her hus­sing to raise his spirits while he was Aquino had her first meeting with band, Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino was a dissident imprisoned in the Philip­President Reagan, after which jailed in 1972 by President Ferdi­pines. senior aids signed an agreement nand Marcos, she recalled what she "I think Ninoy's joy is the that will make available to her was told when one of her college knowledge that he pulled a fast one country an additional $150 million classmates died during her junior on me. Once more he has gone on in economic and military year: ''thy will be done." his merry way and left me to pick assistance. 
"Perhaps no less than the up the mess," she said. She also addressed a joint sacrifice of a man was needed to At the mass, Boston College meeting of Congress. The House give freedom to a people," she said presented her with its highest immediately voted to give the at a mass at St. Ignatius Roman honor, the Ignatius Medal. Philippines $200 million in aid; the Catholic Church in Newton, Mass., Before the mass, about a dozen Senate has yet to vote. 
Hesburgh OK after brief hospital stay 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Hesburgh, and some (doctors) sug­News Editor gested 24 hours more observation," said Urtz. "But he felt well enough 
Against the advice of doctors, to leave and travel." University President Father Conklin said he didn't know what Theodore Hesburgh was released brought on Hesburgh's fainting from a Connecticut hospital yester­spell, but added that there was "no day after spending the night under evidence of anything serious caus­observation because of a fainting ing it." spell. Urtz said doctors may have 
Hesburgh, 69, lost consciousness discussed the cause with Hesburgh for fewer than five seconds while confidentially. Doctors also may standing outside his hotel at about 7 have suggested that he get some 
p.m. Saturday, said Richard Con­rest. klin, assistant vice president of Hesburgh had been in New University relations. Haven for ceremonies marking the 
Hesburgh was taken by am­installation of Benno Schmidt Jr. as 
bulance to the emergency room of Yale University's new president, 
Yale-New Haven hospital and Conklin said. 
evaluated there, Conklin said. He Hesburgh resumed his schedule 
was later admitted to the coronary­after leaving the hospital early 
care unit for observation. yesterday morning, Conklin said. 
Tests revealed Hesburgh's "vital He flew to Washington D.C. to signs were stable and his car­take part in the 25th anniversary diogram normal," said hospital celebration of the Peace Corps. spokesman Tom Urtz. "He called his secretary and told 
Urtz said some of Hesburgh's her that doctors found nothing doctors advised him not to leave wrong," said Conklin. yesterday morning. Hesburgh was scheduled to "Certainly we wanted to take a return to Notre Dame last night, conservative approach with Father Conklin said. 
New club to promote responsible drinking 
By REGIS COCCIA alcohol on the body, according to 
Copy Editor Sheehy. 
"'ne thing that must be noted is 

Although alcohol is consumed by that BACCHUS is very pro­
students on campuses across the drinking," said Vince Willis, vice 
nation, BACCHUS, a newclub at president of the Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, would like to do chapter. "Drinking can be a very 
something about it. positive thing, why turn it into a 
BACCHUS has more than 200 negative one?" Willis said. 
chapters at universities nationwide Interest in bringing BACCHUS 
and seeks to promote resposible at-to Notre Dame began last fall after 
titudes toward drinking. club officers Laurie Bink, Sheehy, 
"Our major message is to get Willis and Assisitant Director of 
away from the negative attitude Facilities and Programming for 
associated with an alcohol Student Activities Ceil Paulsen at­
awareness dub. BACCHUS is a tended the BACCHUS General 
student organization," said John Assembly in Louisville, Kentucky, 
Sheehy, president of the club at according to Willis. 
Notre Dame. Both Sheehy and Willis said that 
''We're not saying don't drink, support for BACCHUS is coming 
but learn what alcohol is about and out of the student body. Willis ex­
drink responsibly," Sheehy said. pressed hope that the University 
BACCHUS also seeks to pro-see BACCHUS, page 4mote awareness of the effects of 
' ,-., ........... 
' 
'
# ' 
,..,_ 

Philippines President Corazon Aquino, now touring tbe United States, visited her alma mater, the CoUege of Mount Saint Vincent, from wbicb she bad graduated in 1953, yesterday. Earlier in her 
U.S. visit, Aquino bad her first meeting with President Reagan and addressed a joint meeting of Congress. 


--------------------~ --------------------------------------------------.---~--------~ ------------------­
Monday, September 22, 1986 -page 2 
In Brief 

Thanks to you... 
AU. •
it works... 
To some it's "cornfusing." To others it's "cornfounding." But 
OFUS 

to three homeowners in Evans, Colorado, it's just a nuisance. For 
for 
the past four years, they say, corn kernels have sporadically fallen 
United Way 

out of the sky onto their roofs and back yards. "I'd probably have a ton of it if I picked it all up," said homeowner Gary Bryan. 
~ 
Kobel and Bryan say all the obvious explanations don't seem to fit. There are no corn fields near their houses, and the closest grain elevator is about five miles away. There are no trees or overhead wires for squirrels to drop corn from, and frequently no birds or planes are visible when the corn starts to fall. Associated Press 
An Arkansas printing company made quite a hit with Allan Hancock College's box office crew when it sent the school 64,000 World Series tickets instead of theater tickets. When Marcy Rafet­to, assistant box office manager for the college's Pacific Con­servatory of Performing Arts, opened the cases of tickets Friday, her first thought was, "We're going to New York." The tickets had been printed for the New York Mets. Weldon, Williams and Licks Inc. of Fort Smith, Ark., sent the college some of the tickets it ordered for upcoming plays. In place of the rest were four cases of baseball tickets, each containing about 16,000 field and box seat tickets worth $40 apiece. When college president Gary Edelbrock calculated the value of the tickets--about $2.5 million--he said, "I think this is better than the (state) lottery." -Associate<! Press 
Todd Herrick. president and chief executive officer of Tecumseh Products Co., has been appointed to the advisory council for Notre Dame's College of Business Administration by Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Herrick is a 1967 Notre Dame graduate who is on the board of directors of Ohio Citizens Trust Co., United Savings Bank, Technamotor, and Albion College. -The Observer 
A Federal Appeals court has rejected the City of Philadel­phia's argument that the U.S. Army, whose policy of dis­criminating against homosexuals violates the city's Fair Prac­tices Act, should be prohibited from recruiting at Temple University's law school. The court cited the Constitution's supremacy clause, giving federal law precedence over state and local laws and prohibiting state or local interference in federal activities. -The Observer 
Of Interest 

Twenty-three companies will set up booths on the first floor of Fitzpatrick Hall Wednesday as part of a fair for engineering students. The event will take place from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and is sponsored by the Joint Engineering Council and the Society of Engineers. ~The Observer 
Notre Dame's Cairo, Egypt foreign study program will hold an important informational meeting tonight at 6:30 in Room 103 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. All interested students are encouraged to at~ tend, according to Dr. Claudia Kselman, assistant director of Foreign Study Programs. ~The Observer 
The Career and Placement Services office will sponsor an interview~training workshop for seniors of all majors tonight at 7 int he lower level of the Memorial Library. The same workshop will be repeated on Tuesday at 11 a.m., 2 p.m., and 4 p.m.~ The Observer 
An all-stadium face paint for the Purdue football game will be sponsored by the Finance Club in cooperation with the American Cancer Society. An organizational meeting for those interested in participating will be tonight at 7 in 127 Nieuwland. A blue and gold stripe can be painted this Saturday from 9 a.m. to 2:15 p.m. 
on Green Field. -The Observer 

A contest to guess the date and hour at which Lake Osceola in the new Ferrettie-Baugo County Park will be filled has been an­nounced by Jill Mumm, of St. Joseph County Parks and Recrea­tion. The 4 acre lake is being filled at the rate of 100 gallons per 
minute from Baugo Creek. The winner or winners will be awarded a free pass to Ferrettie/Baugo Park for one year. Guesses may be mailed until October 15 on a 3 x 5 card to: Pond Contest, St. 
•
Patrich's County Park, 50651 Laurel Road, South Bend, IN, 
•
.~377. ~ The Observer 
Weather 

Just another manic Monday will bring us a 
•
partly sunny and warmer day with the high in 
'0'
., '

the middle 80s and a 30 percent chance of afternoon thunderstorms. Tonight it will be mostly clear with the low in the middle 60s. Increasing clouds tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of afternoon thundershowers and the high in the lower to middle 80s. 

•
The__ Observer~­
Design Editor. .•••... _Kathy Huston Typists.......... Becky Gunderman, Design Assistant ...•.. Tom Schiesser .................... Mary Jacoby News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski •................ Narcisco Jannillo Copy Editor. ........... Chris Julka NDDayEditor. __ .... LaurineMegna Sports Copy Editor ...•. Marty Burns Photographer .......... Jim Carroll 
• 
lbe Observer ( l '~ ~'1'1 !· tlliHtt "puhll'hnl \loo~<la) thruu~ hula) nn-pt oJurinJ.: exilm and \;u..atltJO ('K"ri1Kl~ Thre Obs.ervrer '' puhlt,hnJ h~ tht· 'tudenl!'ltJI tht· l lli\ er,ll\ 
• 
nl :-.outr~ l>am~ anoJ ~aint \1"'1··, Cnlil'J.:~ 

• 
lbe <lbservt-r " a mcmlxr nf lbt-As.•oclated Pns.,..\II rcpruoJunuon ro~o:hh •rt· rc:v~·c:cJ 
. 
Agreat pizza is getting harder and harder to find. 
But ben It Ia. Great tallY cnJsl Lui· bave lD go out or your way lD rtnd ua. douJ sauce. Rea.l cbeeae. rra~ rreah we go out or our way tD make It worth Topplnp. lDpplnp, lDppln(a evety step you lake 

52920 U.S. 31 N 277-5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------­
Sunday -Monday Coupon Special Receive a medium single Ingredient Qrlglnal style 
pizza and an Qrder Qf cheese bread fQr $5.50 
Good for Corry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
i Dellveryunttl11:00 pm wHitdoys 
q=

1 Expires 10/6/86 2:00amonffldayandSaturday ,__
lr'....... 

L----------------------------------­

CLUB PRESIDENT'S MEETING 
• 

Monday, September 22, 1986 
• 

Library Auditorium 7:30-8:30 p.m. 
• 

Important Information Penalty If Not In Affendance •
•
' 

Monday, September 22, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 

Israel to back allies with gunships 
Peace Corps looks for 
Associated Press Rabin told reporters the Israeli in the Israeli-occupied buffer assistance was meant "to ab­zone of southern Lebanon, JERUSALEM -Defense Minister solutely break these attacks by which stretches six to I 0 miles 
Notre Dame students
Yitzhak Rabin said yesterday that inflicting large casualties" on deep along the border and is 
Israel would back up its Lebanese militia allies with Israeli-manned helicopter gun­ships and tanks to halt a surge of guerrilla attacks in southern Lebanon. 
He also suggested that Israel may increase the estimated I,000 troops it keeps in southern Lebanon, but declined to elabo-Shiite Moslem guerrillas. 

A senior military officer, de­manding anonymity, said Israel would deploy troops to reinforce the South Lebanon Army militia on a case-by-case basis, but did not intend to send in a big force. 
The latest rocket attack Satur­day wounded three Israeli sol­diers, the Israeli military com­

STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT I 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts : 
L--------------~~~~~1
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
1

I MasterCuts
1 Reg. $8 tamily haircutters
r-------------------1I 
1 ssOFF ANY PERM : 
: Maste~~ 1 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters UNIVERSITY PARK MALL 277·3770 
meant to prevent guerrillas from attacking Israel itself. 
Two soldiers suffered slight in­juries, and the third was hospi­talized with moderate stomach wounds, the command said. 
The attack came one day after five French soldiers with the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon were wounded by a rocket fired at their barracks in south Lebanon. 
Rabin briefed the Cabinet on the stepped-up assaults against Israeli troops, their Lebanese allies and UNIFIL in southern Lebanon. 
Speaking to reporters after­ward, he warned that "if there will be no tranquillity on our side, there will be no tranquillity on their side." 
Rabin blamed Iranian-backed Hezbollah extremists and the Shiite Amal militia for attacks which killed four French peacekeepers and at least I 2 militiamen of the Israeli­financed South Lebanon Army in the past six weeks. 
1 
j 

IMPORTANT NOTICE on Communion Ministers at Notre Dame 
For both NEW and RETURNING ministers. Each minister is required to attend one session. 
1. 
Sunday, Sept. 21, at 2:00pm Sacred Heart Church New Ministers. 

2. 
Tuesday, Sept. 23, at 10:00 pm Sacred Heart Church New Ministers. 

3. 
Thursday, Sept. 25, at 7 pm Sacred Heart Church Returning Ministers. 


*Returning ministers may attend one of the other sessions if the Thursday session is inconvenient. 

By DAVID T. LEE 
News Staff 

While some students after graduation will be busy spen­ding their first paychecks, others may be spending a couple years in Africa, living in a modest hut, and teaching the basics of good farming to peo­ple who speak Swahili and prac­tice polygamy. 
Peace Corps representative Dan Smolka said he can give seniors that chance if they enter the Peace Corps after gradua­tion. 
Smolka said that now is the best time to sign up for the Peace Corps. Signing up "should not be a spur-of-the­moment decision," he said. 
Peace Corps volunteers must have a college degree, six mon­ths experience in a skilled trade, such as carpentry, and "some type of social service in their background," he said. 
Smolka said any college degree is sufficient, although those in engineering and the sciences are preferred. He said liberal arts graduates, called "generalists," make up 40 per­cent of the Peace Corps. 
He said Peace Corps workers are given free medical benefits, free transportation, and a mon­thly allowance while working in a country. Upon returning to the U.S., the worker receives $4200 in "readjustment allowance," he said. 
After enlisting and com­pleting the three-month training program, volunteers work for two years, although a person is always free to leave if dissatisfied, said Smolka. 
The Peace Corps is looking for unique people, said Smolka. "If he does not have the social and cultural sensitivity, he is not going to be a good Peace Corps representative," he said. 
Smolka said Peace Corps workers will be given positions of leadership they might not find in the United States. 


Join us for a MARRIAGE PREPARATION INFORMATION NIGHT 
Tuesday, Sept. 23rd 7-9pm 
Badin Hall Chapel 
Marriage preparation is a Diocesan requirement nationwide. Ifyou are getting married in Sacred Heart 


Church oryour own parish -you 
may do your marriage preparation 
here. Call University Ministry 
Badin Office: 239-5242 
OFFICE Of

ITS NEVER TOO SOON TO START! 
L.NV!RliTY 
~
-

~~! 
DUN & BRADSTREET Corporation 
will present an informal presentation 
Wed., Sept. 24 7pm-9pm 
Upper Lounge ofUniversity Club 
All students invited All majors and undergrads 
Reception to follow Refreshments to be served 

r---------------~~ ----------·~------·--­
Monday, September 22, 1986 -page 4
The Observer 

Superpower summit delayed by detention of Daniloff 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State George Shultz continued yesterday to press the Soviet Union to let American journalist Nicholas Daniloff leave Moscow, saying a superpower summit was ''most unlikely" until the case is resolved. 
Meanwhile, members of Con­gress supported the Reagan ad­ministration's position to hold a firm line with the Soviets until Daniloff is freed. 

East, West countries agree on peace pact 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­Delegates to the 35-nation East­West security conference agreed Sunday on a package of information-sharing measures designed to reduce the risk that war could break out in Europe by acci­dent. 
It is the first East-west security accord since the SALT II pact in 1979. 
A formal vote on the agreement was scheduled for late Sunday but was put off until Monday so the document could be printed. It then must be ratified by the 35 govern­ments, and is scheduled to take ef­fect Jan. l. 
Both U.S. and Soviet delegates 
praised the accord as contributing 
to a more stable military situation 
in Europe and improving East­
West relations in general. 
Soviet chief delegate Oleg Grinevsky described it as a ''new foundation for the peace process in Europe." U.S. delegation chief Robert Barry said the agreement "shows East and West can say yes to each other for a change." 
However, a ranking U.S. delegate, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Soviet-required restrictions on verification through on-site inspection made the agree­ment inadequeate. 
The agreement stipulates that members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the War­saw Pact must notify the other bloc at least 42 days in advance when planning military activities involv­ing 13,000 soldiers or more or 300 tanks or more. 
Any nation conductin'g military 
maneuvers involving 17,000 soldiers or more must invite two observers from other participants in the Stockholm conference. 
When maneuvers involve am­
phibious landings or paratroops, 
BACCHUS 
continued/rom page 1 
will get behind the club, 
underscoring the fact that many 
students have taken a negative view 
of the alcohol policy. 
Paulsen the club's advisor, could 
not be contacted for comment. 
"The club is loosely knit right 
now but the future looks bright," 
Willis said. 
BACCHUS is planning its first 
general meeting for sometime next 
month, according to Sheehy. He 
said there was an excellent turnout 
of students at Activities Night who 
showed interest in the club. 
''We'd like to be an information 
group--we realize people are going 
to drink," Sheehy said. "We just 
hope they don't drink and drive." 
Sheehy said the club wants to 
provide information outlets on 
campus for the student body. 
Although BACCHUS is not 
associated with any other club at 
Notre Dame, Sheehy said it may 
co-sponsor events with different 
clubs Oi c~ rn pus. "We're going to 
try to think of something unique," 
Sheehy said. 
"I think it is most unlikely that you could have a fruitful meeting in the conditions that we have today," Shultz said on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley," reiterating remarks he made Saturday evening after he concluded two days of talks 
with  Soviet  Foreign  Minister  
Eduard Shevardnadze.  
"It seems  to  me  that  what  we  

must do is get this case settled before really you have an at­mosphere that you can make some progress on the things people want 
nations must notify the other side if just 3,000 or more are involved, and invite observers if 5,000 troops or more are taking part. 
The Stockholm Conference on Security-and Confidence-Building
Measures and Disarmament in 
!r;~P;el:ge~~~n;nfr~~n~:r; u1!~!i 
States, Canada, the Soviet Union and ~1 European nations except 

~=-------=~~=~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~~~A 
~.g  Haven't heard of Yogi's yet? g1  
n18  YOGI'S YOGURT  cgl 
II  Study Break Special 25.cOff Aoymedl"mooooo'd"h  I ~  

• St. Rd. 23, NE corner of Ironwood (Across from Martins) Expires 9·19-86 .. 
~---------------­
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments NOW RENTING FOR FAU 
Completely furnishect balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before 10/1/86 and get 
ONE MONTH FREE RENT 
Office at 120 NO Ave 
~7 
Call Anytime 
I I 
MIXER 
I I 
to talk about," Shultz said during the broadcast. 
At separate news conferences after their meetings ended Satur­day, Shultz and Shevardnadze reported they had made some pro­gress in preparing for a second meeting between Reagan and Gor­bachev. 
But Shultz said the Soviet spy charges against Daniloff were a stumbling block and Shevardnadze cited the American expulsion of 25 
i~~ 
.·:· 
.(\( 
•:::
r at 239-5313 for more information. 
·~'Ihe~~­
feature department? 
Applications now being accepted for the following positions: 
•  F tuea res  copy  Ed•tI ors  
•Assistant Features Editor  ApplicationsduebySp.m.,Sept.25intheobsener  
office, 3rd noor Lafortune. Contact Mary Jacoby  

persions from the Soviet U.N. mis­
sion as an obstacle.  
Soviet  Foreign  Ministry  
spokesman  Gennadi  Gerasimov,  
appearing Sunday  on  CBS' "Face  

the Nation," said resolution of the Daniloff case is "not a very big pro­blem at all." 
"Mr. Daniloff is under investiga­tion, he is charged and usually he's going to be put to trial, but because we don't want this particular case to be an obstacle in our relations, we can find some kind of solution and let him free," he said. 

Gerasimov said, ''There are several ideas in air" to resolve the Daniloff case. "They were discuss­ed and they can continue to be discussed," but he declined to disclose specifics of the ideas. 
Sen. Daniel P. Moynihan, D­N.Y., objected to any plan to release Daniloff in exchange for ac­cused Soviet spy Gennadiy Zakharov, even to effect an arms 
summit. 

Concourse of A.CiCi 
Underclassmen who did not pick up their 
1986DOME 
last spring: limited quantites available. TONIGHT 7:30-8:30 Dome Office, 3rd Floor Lafortune 
,... ...... 
usc

NotreDame <IIJ.. ~ 
Fighting Irish Trojans
-.... ...... 
Nov. 28-Dec. 1 4 days I 3 nights 
Tour package includes round trip airfare via United 
Airlines, hotel accomodations at Los Angeles Marriott, 
football game ticket, airport and game transportation, 
an tour escort. 

$599 I person 
Call Sportrek/Libertyville Travel 
1-800-221-GAME 312-362-0222 

I I 
6:00-6:30 pm 

r
:·: 
1\1 
~:~ ~~~ 

Monday, September 22, 1986 -page 5
The Observer 

Spartans 
continuedfrom page 8 
each time we went to the brink, we 
came away empty-handed." 
But if the Irish aren't getting the big plays when it most needs them, they should now be able to take a cue from the Spartans. Michigan State parlayed several key plays in­to crucial advantages, the most valuable by far being Spartan cor­nerback Todd Krumm's two in­terceptions. 
Krumm's first interception off of Notre Dame quarterback Steve Beurerlein (19 Completions in 36 attempts, 259 yards) came when the junior defender stepped in front of Irish receiver Tim Brown and took the ball 44 yards in for the touchdown. That score gave Michigan State and early 7-3 lead and seemed to break the stride of a Notre Dame offense which had marched 70 yards for a John Carney field goal on its opening drive. 
Knocking the Irish offense out of synch was not enough for Krumm, however, as his second intercep­tion, this one at the Spartan 18­yard line with 1:26 left, sealed the victory and earned him the game ball. 
"On the last interception the play developed just like it was supposed to," said Beuerlein. "He sat on it right and it was a great play. 
"The first interception, though, 
was a dumb play on my part. They 
did a good job disguising their 
defense and I threw it without look­
ing. It put us in a hole and we had 
to play catch-up." 
As was the case last week, the Irish 
task of catching up was made possi­
ble in the end by a fine defensive 
performance that yielded only one 
Spartan touchdown on the day. 
That score, a 40-yard air strike 
from quarterback Dave Yarema to 
flanker Mark Ingram in the fourth 
period came on a nice catch off a 
perfectly thrown ball. 
Other than that score, however, 
the Notre Dame defense kept 
Yarema at bay, holding the 
talented senior to a paltry 7-of-18 
for 144 yards. And although 
Heisman Trophy-candidate Loren­
zo White kept Michigan State in 
control of the ball with many nice 
runs, he was kept out of the open 
field by the Irish defense and held 
to 147 total yards on 41 carries. 
Somehow the Notre Dame offense did recover from its first-half doldrums to score a pair of second­half touchdowns, one a 38-yard Joel Williams scamper after a Beuerlein pass and the other a five­yard leaping touchdown by freshman Anthony Johnson. BOth of these drives, and another 53­yard drive that ended when MSU's Dean Altobelli jarred the ball loose from Notre Dame's Brown at the Spartan goal line, were beuilt around the passing game. 
"It was very difficult for us to get something going offensively," said Holtz. "We had trouble running the ball (Irish tailback Mark Green's 30 yards on 13 carries led the team), and Michigan State made all the big plays. After the first interception for a touchdown, we were a little disjointed for the remainder of the first half. ANd we really never got ontempo until the middle of the third quarter." 
Holtz tried some unusual strategies to give the Irish some help, putting in the entire second­team offense in the second quarter and calling for a Beuerlein quick­kick in the third. The former wasn't effective, while the latter backfired as Beuerlein shanked the kick to set up one of Chris Caudell's two field goals of the day. 
The Observer Monday, September 22, 1986 -page 6 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC tennis team dropped two matches over the weekend. In a 6-3 loss to DePaul, winners for SMC included No. 5 singles Charlene Szajko, No. 6 singles Buffy Heinz, and No. 3 doubles Heinz and Kim Drahota. In the 5-4 loss to Wisconsin-Milwaukee, winners for SMC included No. 1 singles Heinz, and No. 3 doubles team of Heinz and Drahota. -The Observer. 
The ND-SMC Cycling Club will have daily rides of 15 to 35 miles, weather permitting, starting at 4:00 p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and at 4: 15 on Tuesday and Thursday from behind the Administration Building. All riders are wel­come. -The Observer. 
Non-Varsity Athletics announces that it is offering two eve­ning aerobics classes. "Late Night at the Rock" meets every Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights at I 0 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 p.m. in Gym I of the ACC. Registration may be done at the NVA office. A complete listing of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer. 

Michigan State's Heisman Trophy candidate Lorenzo White (up­per left) leans on blocking back Bobby Morse Oower left) the same way Notre Dame's 1956 Heisman Trophy winner Paul Hornung (upper right) leaned on Morse's father, James Sr. Eric Scheuer­mann features the younger Morse at right. 
Spartan fullback 
Morse follows father's footsteps 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN and caught the ball for Hornung Michigan and there's not much Sports Writer more than he blocked for him. I publicity there. Michigan, Notre mainly block for Lorenzo. Our Dame and Michigan State wanted 
Michigan State senior fullback roles are different, but I guess it's me to walk-on. But as soon as I Bobby Morse, a man with quite a something to talk about." heard about (MSU head coach) few ties to N~tre Dame, didn't do Morse carried the ball twice George Perles' attitude of playing anything fancy Saturday. But Saturday for five yards, caught one players who weren't necessarily the when it was all over, his contribu­pass for five yards, and returned biggest and fastest, I liked MSU. tion to the Spartans' 20-15 defeat of two punts for 18 yards. But most ''You don't have to be a 6-5 the Irish was evident. of his duties this season will revolve Parade all-American to play for 
You see, Morse is the main around providing for White. him -you just have to have the 
blocking back for Spartan Heisman "No, I don't feel overshadowed," desire. Everyone thinks I knew Trophy candidate Lorenzo White. says Morse. "I'm not here for Notre Dame real well, but I was On Saturday, it was often a Morse publicity. I do it for self­even more familiar with MSU. 
block that sprung White for a satisfaction. Lorenzo needs the They finally offered me a scholar­substantial gain on his way to a publicity to win the Heisman. He's ship and I signed the day after." 147-yard day. a great kid, and I want to help him How close was Morse to signing 
Much has been made of the fact win. I think I'd be disappointed if with Notre Dame? 
that Morse's father, Jim, started at he doesn't win. Part of it would be "Not very," he says. "Gerry right halfback for Notre Dame my fault. Faust is a helluva man and a great from 1954-1956, blocking some for "As for my personal goals, I person, but he didn't appeal to me Paul Hornung when the latter won want to catch the ball and run for as a football coach. When he the Heisman in 1956. Morse's older five yards a carry. There's also a recruited, he recruited all­brother Jim also played for the punt return record I'd like to Americans. Notoriety wasn't my 
Irish as a reserve defensive back break." greatest asset. Mine were my heart from 1976-77. With Morse's Notre Dame ties, and my mind -and that I'm willing 
"It's ironic that both my father one might think he would have end­to pay the price." and I may have been in the same ed up with the Irish four years ago. So Michigan State gained a hard­backfield with Heisman winners," But such was not the case. working, if not flashy, fullback ­said Morse. "But my dad was a "I wasn't highly recruited," says one who'll continue to labor in the running back and Hornung was a Morse. "I came out of Muskegon shadows for the good of the team quarterback. My dad ran the ball Catholic on the western side of and his tailback. 
pretty good formula for a
we had to play catch-up," Beuerlein said, "but after that week we knew quaranteed loss. 
Miscues 
that we could." But how does a team find a way to 
continuedfrom page 8 
This week, however, they get some breaks? As quiet as the couldn't.
missed a field goal, the Irish saw Notre Dame locker room was after 
Near the end of the first half,
the walls begin to crumble. the loss, there was still confidence 
Lorenzo White fumbled the ball for 
Beurlein aired up a blind out­that things are going to come
only the fifth time in his college
pattern toss to Brown, and together one of these days. 
career. If eve Notre Dame was go­
Michigan State safety Todd "We know that if we run our of­
ing to capitalize and head into the
Krumm stepped in to pick it off on fense," said Williams, "nobody can
locker room with some momen­
his way to the end zone for an easy stop us. We're not going to give up. 
tum, that was the time. 
Spartan touchdown. 
Instead, Carney's 37-yard It's only two games and two gamesIncidentally, Krumm was the fieldgoal attempt sailed wide, and don't make a season. There's plen­beneficiary of the interception 
which ended Notre Dame's hopes in the Irish were still looking for ty of time to come back, get things something to go right -anything.
the fourth quarter as well, tying back in order and get Notre Dame him with Milt Jackson and Joel Add a pair of missed two-point back on top." Williams for fourth-place among conversion attempts, a Brown fum­As for now, if it's any consolation, Irish receivers in the game. ble deep in State territory and a 19-the Irish might just be the best 0-2 
"That play put us in a hole and . yard quick kick, and you've got a football team in the nation. 
lh«· Ulht'rtl'f '-ulr\ ll.IIIH ,,lfllt 1..,.tltd •oJI tilt tlnrd fl,.,.r ••1 l.tl••llllllt "IUd\-111 ( l'IIIC I .UlC J'l""t l.t"IIH d .hht 111'111).! 11••111' 1 ,1111 tl!lltl 'I' 111 \1•oltd.l\ thr4HI).:h I rtd.t\ ,,,. '''"•'''•'' .... 11111 \l.tl\ ',,fllll !o•l,lltl! ,,., ,, '· llllld iJ,.,., ··I ll.tgg.tr < 'dlt gt ( c. llh r ,It, 1 I''' l l.t ... ,rr~e ,t .. lr· "" I.! ''' I'"' tilt I r1 .., t' ''' \1, ,,, d.i\ till nigh I rnl.1\ I )t .tdiiiH t• '' Ill \I d.l\ , '·'"' 111 d ..... .;. p 111 \I! , 1.1"11u d' mu,tiH pn·p.11d ttllllrllll'tr...,.<~J••rl•\ 111.11i t !..11~t '' l••ttlli'Ptrl!\ttlur.u
Classifieds 
tt:r ... "'lt:r d.l\ 

r I I I I I l I I I I I I  I J '---T-YP-~-~-.1-R-~-R-~-~-S-SI-NG_J.• CAll DOLORES 277-8131. TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 Wordprocesslng resumes, etc. Typeset quality. 287-9024. LOST/FOUND I Lost:STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS. Lost during Mich. game In section 32. II found, be honest and please call 3176.REWARD!! IRREPLACEABLE! LOST MY SET OF SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS! LOST ON GREEN FIELD OR ON WAY TO THE GAME. CASH REWARD OF­FERED. IF FOUND CALL KAREN AT 277-5295 OR 272-1441. LOST: Black sweatshirt with coloured paint on front. Last seen at Alumni Club. Wednesday. Sept. 10. Reward. Call Marlene at 283-2628. MISSING: DARK BLUE BACKPACK WITH BROWN TRIMMING-EASTMAN. LAST SEEN AT THE NO BOOKSTORE LOBBY TUES SEPT 16. WOULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDENTALLY PICKED IT UP PLEASE RETURN IT. CALL ANA MARIA AT 272-4363. LOST: THIS WATCH. CHEAP BUT VERY SENTIMENTAL BECAUSE MY MOTHER GAVE IT TO ME.ANYWAY ITS GOLD TONE CASIO QUARTZ lED SECONDHANO.LOST AT STEPHAN FIELD LAST WEEK.CALL LUIS 1489. LOST --Gold Rope Bracelet-lost In South Quad Area-Sentimental Value! PLEASE CALL X2922­REWARD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! RED JANSPORT BACKPACK.SHARP CALCULATOR.PSYCHOLOGY BOOK. AND STUDENT 10. LAST SEEN IN THE EMPLOYEE LOCKERS OF NORTH DINING HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 2148.  FOUND: JEAN JACKET AT GAME. I'"'~~~~;~;··~N BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms lor par­ents on football special weekends. Call 1-219-291-7153. WANTED l TYPISTS-$500 weekly at home! Write: P.O. Box 975. Elizabeth, NJ 07207 Help wanted part lime. Computer retail store. Call 277-5026. Help wanted part time. Computer retail store. Call 277-5026. FOR SALE USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS AUDIOPHILES Phase Linear Autocorrelator (noise re­duction lor all sources) -$100: Tech­nics MK 1BOO manual turntable (quartz-lock, direct drive, wto cartridge) -$70; Audio Pulse Digital Time Delay (to reproduce concert hall ambience: Incorporates a 25 watvchannel amp. You supply second -pair of speakers.)-S200: Haller 110 Preamp (audiophile quality, rack­mountable)-$150. Also have records (many digital and M! speed masters) and pre-recorded classiCBI cassettes Call 277-5912 or 239-7133. FOR SALE One King 4B symphony-quality trom­bone with F attachment -$700 or best serious offer. One Olds tenor student trombone -5100. Call Kelly Havens at 239-5637 mornings and afternoons. TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS. FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. MACINTOSH FOR SALE 128K. Printer. Carrying Case Like New 51.100£1310  FOR SALE One GE Llght'n'Easy Steam and Dry Iron with alull·slze. collabslble Ironing board. pad, and cover. -S25. Call Kelly Havens at 239-5637 mornings and af­ternoons. 1933 Studebaker ROCKNE Mint condition. Call Clay Hamlin 283-1384 76 Dodge Colt Wagon. 5500. call Marty 239-54 7 4 or 277-4563 TICKETS I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tickets desperately! Call Mike at 283-1655. NEED PURDUE TIX TOM 287-4831 JIM 289-3482 Wanted: 2 G.A.'s & 2 stud. lor any home game. Call John 4078 Needed: 2 GAs for Air Force. Call x2134. NEED up to 4 PURDUE tickets! GA's or student. Will pay cash $$$! Call PAT (O'Rourke)-x1400. I NEED THREE PURDUE TIX-EITHER STUDENT OR GA. CALL DOC x3380. Need GA's for Purdue and Pitt. Call 277-97114. Help! Need 2 Purdue student or GA llx. Call 272-9340. Big$ II !I'M DESPERATE!! I PLEASE HELP! II MY BABY SISTER IS COMING UP TO VISIT ME AND SHE NEEDS A G.A. OR STUDENT TICKET FOR THE PURDUE-NO GAMEl DAD'S PAYING, SO MONEY IS NO OBJECT! IF YOU CAN HELP, PLEASE CALL JENNY OR KATHY AT X36180AX2239. NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITI.CAll AN· NIEAT2756 NEED MONEY? TRADE$ FOR PUR­DUE TIX. CHRIS 1736 Need 2-4 GAs tor PURDUE. WILL PAY. CALL DON3675 or JIM3413.  NEED! 4 GA PURDUE TIX · CALL RENEE2!130 NEED2 PITITIX x3364 I have 4 PURDUE GA's 4 Ul Best oller by Wed 11 pm. call Gonzo 3349 HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 G.t,'S FOR All HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! CALL TOMAT1774. I HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S!I Will EX· CHNG FOR 2 PITI OR BEST OFFER. x3887, x3520 DAD AND GRANDAD want to see NOTRE DAME beat Air Force. I NEED two (2) G.A.'s­will pay 5's-(cash). CALL TOM NOW.233-7318 HELP! I NEED 6 GA'S FOR EITHER AIR FORCE OR S.M.U.! CALL X-4605 ASK FOR TOM! NEED PURDUE TIX TOM 287-4831 JIM 289-3482 DESPERATELY need two Purdue GAs lor parents. Will Pay BIG BUCKS. Call Mike at 1563. NEED 2GA PITI TICKETS CALL 312­684-8326 COLLECT Need 1 Purdue Ilk stud or GA call John at x2990 Help a young,dlstraught student who needs GA TIX to PURDUE game. Life hangs In balance.£2072. I need 2 Pill GA's! Please call right away-3268... Steve NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE. CALL SHARON 284-4346. HELP!!!!!!!!! I desperately need student or GA tick­ets lor the PITISBURGH and PENN STATE games. (Yes. I am a PA native') It you can help, please call Michele at •3566  NEED 4 GA PITI TICKETS. CALL 277­0194. NEED ALABAMA TICKETS:: I HAVE A RELATIVE WHO DOESN'T BELIEVE NO IS£1.1 NEED AT LEAST TWO TICK­ETS TO TEACH HIM A LESSON. STEVE-1188 NEED PURDUE STUD. TIX & 2 AIR FORCE GA's. CHRIS-1107 NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S PLEASE CALL KEVIN £1417 DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA A FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL M.B X3029 NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME CALL CATH AT 284·4232. 4 AIR FORCE GA'S 284-4350.283-2344. NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL SUE 284-4295. Penn State Tlx Wanted. SSS Call 288­2841 I NEED 6 PURDUE GA TIX. FAMILY ARRIVES FRI. DON'T NEED TIX TO BE TOGETHER PLEASE CALL PAUL C2247 OR 2317 NEEDEO:ONE PURDUE TICKET.ANY TYPE.TOP DOLLAR PLUS PLEASE HELP ME.CALL PETE AT 232-9534 AT NIGHT OR EARLY MORNJNG.PlEASE PLEASE.THANK YOU THANK YOU NEED PURDUE GA's!! CALL JANET £3874 SSSS FOR 3 PURDUE STUDENT TICKS. CALL 1391 !!!!!! PERSONALS Don't settle for some fool with his stereo to handle I he music at your next dance. We're professionals. And we·re the largest independent OJ business on campus. THE ONLY DJs THAT MATIER!! Pal 277-3687 Tllo 277-0973 Don 283-3675 The authors of the "hilarious guide for the faithful, fallen, and the In· between "GROWING UP CATHOLIC" will be at O'LAUGHLIN AUD. WED. SEPT 24 8PM-ALL WELCOME!!  Greg T. We have II. You want it. But you're not gonna get 11. MJM HAAPPY BIRATHDAAYY! To that 20­year-new Non-person?! LOOK! Up across the quad! Is It a teen? Is II an adult? It's TONY LEE! Fearless NO student In search of Truth, Girls, and a BBA. Wish this DUde a super birth­day!! Have a Great Day! Your Bro. THE 2 MINOA MINORS AND THE ALMOST MAJOR MINOA WISH THE NOW MINOA MAJOR A HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY! PLEASE REMEMBER US MINORITY IN YOUR NEWFOUND MAJORITY! (BETIEA LATE THAN NEVER!) TO HER (willing) VICTIM: I use cau· lion In lear of rejection. Senior Bar Isn't the place. What do you sug­gest? HOW MANY ARE YOU? DIS MANY? HAPPY BOUFOAY, LITILE CINDY LOU HAWWIGANI WOMEN'S SUPPORT GROUP, THURSDAYS, 3:30-5 P.M., UNIVERSI­TY COUNSELING CENTER. CALL 239-7336 FOR INFORMATION. OAR HOUSE. COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLlO A Y INN "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­SHIRTS COMING SOON...EXCELLENT QUALITY COMING SOON ... EXCELLENT QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­SHIRTS ONLY 58.00. ONLY 58.00. ONLY 58.00 ONLY $8.00. ONLY 58.00. ONLY S8.00 "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T -SHIRTS PURDUE !! PARENTS ARE COMING. DESPERATELY NEED TWO G.A.'S. CALL JOHN SCHOEN AT 1143. PURDUE!! TOASTMASTERS IS hack' r~rst mP.eflnq WED SEPT ?4 at 7pm Hayc' Hc•ly NPw 1tu•mhms arn welrornn• Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am: Friday 5pm-2am: Saturday 5pm-1am: Sunday 4pm-10pm  
--------------------------­ 

-~----~-~~-~--~~----~-~--~~---------­
']I['~~4tll~------------------------------------------------------•M•o•nd•a•y•,S•e•~-~--be•r•2•2.•1.98•6•-_.P.~-e-7 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Proteins 

Campus 
12:15-1:45 p.m.: Acting workshops with Robert Cluchey, Laboratory Theatre, Washington Hall, free and open to the public 
2:20 p.m.: Lecture, "USA ROTC Cadet Command," by Gen. Robert E. Wagner, Haggar Hall Auditorium 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, MacWrite, 108 Com­puting Center, to register, call Betty at 239-5604 6:00p.m.: Meeting, Urban Plunge Hall Representatives, CSC 7:00-10:00 p.m.: Natural family planning class for married and engaged couples, Part One of a two-part series, Hayes-Healy Auditorium. To register, call237-7401 or 277-8807 7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series I, "Breathless," 1959, black and white, 90 minutes. Annen berg Auditorium 7:00p.m.: Meeting, Finance Club, 127 Nieuwland Science 7:00p.m.: Meeting, Big Brothers Assoc. Multipurpose rm of the esc. All those interested in joining and present members welcome. For more information, call232-9958 7:30p.m.: Meeting, Omicron Delta Epsilon, the Economics honor society. Basement of Walsh Hall. New members should bring their membership fee. Any questions, contact Molly McGinnis (283-2707) or Paul Zeph (283-1164) 
7:30 p.m.: Meeting, Pax Christi, CSC, social to follow a brief meeting. Snacks, beverages and music to be provided 9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Some Came Running," 1959, color, 136 
Celebrate 
Life! 
Help the 
dp 

March of Dimes 
Fight 


Birth Defects 

.-----sABpresents 

ACROSS 1 Mimicked 5 Land map 9 Hoard 
14 Only 15 Bronte 

heroine 16 Zest 17 Mystical star 19 Sign up 20 Haystack find 21 Hanging 
ornament 23 Comp. dir. 24-Meir 25 Defense 

structure 29 Hors d'oeuvre 33 Weather 
forecast 34 Hungarian dog 36 Arabian chief 37 Snake 38 nme period 40Fuu 42 Ona -million 43 Pseudologist 
51 Wife of 8 Rhythm Odysseus 9 Schedule 53 Put forth 10 Earthly 
effort 11 Nick Chartes' 55 Each and every dog 56 Feathered 12 Br. gun 59 Races 62 Perfect 
1'13 Congenitally Type 
63 Pleree through attached 66 Decree 22 Rodrigo Dlaz 67 Redolence de Bivar 68 Small valley 24 Afr. antelope 69 Carries on 25 Sacred song 
70 Sandy-haired 26 Cow name 71 Evergreens 27 Katmandu's locale 
DOWN 28 Gemstone 1 Elec. unit 30 Pal to Pedro 2 Hammer part 31 Calendar girl 3 Sea bird 32 Wipe out 46 Likely 57 Old epic 4 Easing of 35 Like some 48 Spring poetry 
tensions ducks ailment 58 No: Ger. 5 Ahab's 39 Change the 50 Elevates 59 Neve Impairment clock 52 Linen 60 Broad valley 6 Stringed 41 Breakfast 54 Change a 61 Goulash instrument order plant's milieu 64 Tokyo once 7 Macaw 44 Stage again 56 Docking place 65 Navy man: abbr. 


Ambassador Romuald Spasowski 
'Liberation ofOne: A Journey to Freedom, 
Tuesday, Sept. 30 at 8:00pm Washington Hall 
.._________ Reserved seats $1.00 available Wednesday, Sept. 24 to Tuesday, Sept. 30 ----------• 
-~-----------------~---~-~ ~ --~--­
Monday, September 22, 198~-page 8 
S~orts 
Spartans pull out 20-15 win over sloppy Irish 
t two games. I "I thought we had a chance right up to the 
I 
end," said Holtz in a low voice. "I am disap­
I 
The Observer/Jim Carroll pointed certainly, but we knew it wouldn't be
I 
easy. Our football team played hard but
I 
Michigan State's Reisman Trophy candidate Lorenzo bofer (36), and Cedric Figaro (48) in Saturday's 20-15
I 
White evades Notre Dame defenders Wally Kleine (96), Spartan win over tbe Irish. Tbe Irish defense beld
I see SPARTANS, page 5
Darrell Gordon (38), Brandy Wells (5), Ron Weissen Wbite to 147 yards on 41 carries on the day. 
I 
I 
l I 
Soccer team rebounds Irish miscues make day a long one
I 
I 
I to crush Tri-State, 7-0 
By MARTY STRASEN cost the Irish in this game, Holtz, "we came away empty­Assistant Sports Editor you're going to go through a lot handed." By KELLY TOWNSEND and After that goal, the rest of the 
of hands. And the dilemma started early PETEGEGEN game was all Notre Dame. The 
EAST LANSING, Mich. "I don't know about the luck­for Holtz' troops. Spons Writers Irish controlled the ball and kept all 
Notre Dame quarterback Steve of-the-Irish," said Notre Dame The Irish picked up where they the pressure on the Spartan defense Beuerlein dropped back with receiver Tim Brown, "but right left off last week againstGoing by the statistics, the Notre in an attempt to tie the score. 
just more than a minute remain­now it seems to be going against Michigan, offensively speaking. 
D arne soccer team had two "The man was open in the middle ing in the game, and promptly us. John Carney's 27-yard field goal blowouts in this weekend's action. and wasn't challenged. He put it in fired an interception to seal the "Everything we did, we did to capped an impressive opening
But going by the scoreboard, the the right place," said sophomore Irish could only manage to win one stopper John Guignon. ''We 
win for Michigan State. ourselves. They didn't do drive for Notre Dame, and of the two contests. dominate them and know we 
But to attribute Notre Dame's anything we didn't expect. We things were actually looking up. Despite controlling play, the should have won. Even though we 
20-15 loss against the Spartans just couldn't execute like we For a little while, anyway. team dropped a 1-0 decision to didn't, we're pleased with what we 
to that miscue would be like wanted to. We couldn't get the On the move again after Michigan State on Friday. The did and so was Coach Grace." 
convicting a mass murderer for breaks we needed." Michigan State's Chris Caudell team responded, however, with a 7-Grace, well known for the little 
jay-walking. If you are going to "Each time we went to the see MISCUES, page 60 thrashing of Tri-State yesterday. praise he gives his team, was un­point any fingers at plays which brink," said Head Coach Lou 
In the Michigan State contest, characteristically free with the the Irish kept playin the Spartans' kudos for the way the team played. end the entire game. The Irish 'I was very happy with the way totalled 13 shots compared to three they played," he said. "They by the Spartans, and 17 corner played as a team and worked well kicks to one by Michigan State. together. They played their best The normal number of corner kicks and if we continue to play like we in a game isusually near seven for a did Friday, we'll win. (We) have team, so the Irish offense played character and we'll be back." well above par. Against Tri-State on Sunday, 
Despite the number of shots, Notre Dame sent the almost­three of which went off the posts, unheard-of total of 41 shots at the the Irish could not get it past Trojan goal. But even with a 3-0 Michigan State's keeper. halftime lead, Grace was not happy 
"We dominated Michigan State, with his team's sloppy play. the sixth-ranked team in the Mideast, and I'm proud of the "We didn't execute very well," boys," said Coach Dennis Grace. noted Grace. "We sent the ball ''Everyone played very well and the over the post with some moon substitutes we put in played as well shots, and we overpassed in front as the starters." of their goal." 
The Irish played as a team Kevin Kade put the Irish up im­throughout, with the defense con­mediately with a goal. at the 1: 18 sistently backing up the offense and mark, and then proceded to assist feeding them from the half line. on the second goal, a Joe Stern­Senior Pat Szanto did an escellent berg shot at the 9:23 mark. job at sweeper and was com­McCourt increased his team­plemented by freshman Pat Mc­leading point total to 21 with a goal Clanahan who held his own at the two minutes before the half. stopper position. Sternberg notched a second goal, 
Michigan State's goal carne early and then freshman Rolfe Berje in the first half. It was bought scored to give Notre Dame a 5-0 down the wing and centered at the lead. Notre Dame flanker Tim Brown prepares to tore) jarred tbe ball loose with a ringing bit that top of the penalty box. From there Pat Murphy and Shawn Magsig bit tbe turf after making a catch in tbe fourth popped the ball into teammate Johnny MOler's 
it was chipped into the upper left both scored the first goals of their quarter of Saturday's 20-15 Spartan victory. bands. Miller (44) was credited with a fumble 
corner, slipping past keeper Hugh careers as the Irish continued to Before Brown could hit the ground, however, recovery. 
Breslin. pour it on in the second half. Michigan State safety Dean Altobelli (not in pic-



