Reagan leprechaun -page 3 



pus for fireworks and fun while the others (shown above) enjoyed off-campus celebrations at the Notre Dame Apartments and corby Street as well as other locations. 
Honesty panelists present final report on cheating at ND 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
The University Honesty Com­mittee found "more cheating at Notre Dame than any of us wants," and recommended clearer and ''well-publicized" policies regarding academic dishonesty, more atten­tion to factors which contribute to cheating, and promotion of "hones­ty as a value," according to the committee's final report presented to the Academic Council yesterday. 
The report will now be submitted to student government and the col­lege councils for discussion in preparation for a formal decision by the Academic Council, accor­ding to Director of Public Rela­
tions  and  Information  Richard  
Conklin.  
"We  are  desirous of getting  as  

much feedback as we can· from students, faculty, and anyone else," said Associate Provost Father Ed­ward Malloy, chairman of the Honesty Committee. 
Recommending against in­stituting an honor code, the report held that student reportage of in­cidents of dishonesty is "essential" to ' an honor code while most students fail to report such in­cidents. 
Student government Academic Commissioner Earl Baker said this failure was part of the reason for removing Notre Dame's former honor code in the early 1970;;. 
The report section on the honor code also said academic honesty at Notre Dame is "not overwhelming or rampant" and "does not warrant a radical change, which may work no better than the present system .. 
The first recommendation of the "modified" policy on academic dishonesty in the report includes the preamble of the present policy on academic honesty in the faculty handbook. This preamble defines academic dishonesty as "presenting work not one's own" and states taht "serious injustice" is done by such dishonesty. 
The second recommendation calls for clearer policies and "primary responsibility for defin­ing standards of honesty" to be given to individual professors. The report states that professors should clarify their policies on "problematic" areas such as cooperative work on outside class assignments through oral and writ­ten statements made at the beginn­ing of courses. 
New  faculty  and  first-year  
students  should  especially  be  in­ 
formed  of  policies  regarding  

academic dishonesty, states the report. 
The third recommendation re­quests a pledge of honesty to be submitted by students with all work. 
see CHEAT, page 4 

OPEC: No agreement on strategy 
Associated Press would be acceptance by Saudi minister of Venezuela and presi­Arabia of cuts in its production. dent of OPEC, said the break in the 
GENEVA -OPEC ministers, There were indications that Saudi meeting was needed to allow the unable to agree on a strategy for Arabia would agree to such cuts if group's technical experts to reassess reversing a traumatic drop in oil it could be assured that other the outlook for oil demand. prices, suspended an emergency members of the Organization of 
The OPEC ministers met infor­
meeting yesterday for at least one Petroleum Exporting Countries mally in small groups until late last day as reports surfaced of new ef­would abide by new limits. 
night, and Grisanti said the fullforts to heal divisions within the 13-That would represent a shift for conference would reconvene today.
nation cartel. Saudi Arabia, which has been 
As ministers groped for a way to demanding cutbacks by producers The meeting's uncertainty caused stabilize markets, conference outside of OPEC as a condition for nervous trading in the spot and sources said attempts were being scaling back its production. futures oil markets. On the New made to reinstate production OPEC has been plagued in recent York Mercantile Exchange, the quotas for OPEC members in years by its inability to enforce pro­April-delivery price of West Texas hopes that an oil glut would dry up duction quotas and official prices Intermediate, the main U.S. crude, and prices would turn higher. set for its members. 
see OPEC, page 4
A key to such an agreement Arturo Hernandez Grisanti, oil 
Prison takeover ends peacefully 
Associated l'rat Department of Correction favors ed sharpened broomsticks to take single ceiling on Death Row. hostage a corrections officer and 
MICHIGAN CITY, tntl -'jni The uprising was sparked in part two counselors about 9:30 a.m. mates housed on Death ltCI'I" at the by the practice of placing two in­yesterday CST, Neary said. Indiana State Prison have agree'lll to mates in each of the unit's cells. A prison employee was released release all hostages and give up all One of the three hostages taken four hours later, after the inmates weapons," the statement said. in the incident yesterday morning were given cigarettes, milk and iced 
was released after two of the in­tea, and allowed a 10-minute inter­The inmates involved in the mates were interviewed by a view with a reporter from the 
hostage seizure, thought to number newspaper reporter, and a second LaPorte Herald-Argus, a about 14, must face a prison con­reporter met twice with leaders of newspaper located about 10 miles duct board and could be disciplined the uprising, who said they wanted from the prison, Neary said. 
if found in violation of prison to negociate their demands for im­Edward Jones, 39, of Westville, the rules, according to the agreement. proved conditions through the news administrator of the death row The agreement noted that the media. unit, was in good condition after he General Assembly is reviewing a The incident began when Donald master plan for improving state Wallace Jr., 28, of Evansville and prison conditions and that the Russell Boyd, 27, of Clarksville us-see TAKEOVER, page 4 
Student evaluations of rectors examined 
By MIKE ANNAN LISA the survey forms ready by the time they would be needed, ac­
StaffReporter 
cording to Cafarelli. The tabulated results of the survey went to both the Office
The standardized rector 
evaluation forms recently 
distributed to on-campus 
said.
students is a modified and ex­
panded version of one used in 
past years, according to Father 
Francis Cafarelli, assistant vice 
Cafarelli said he stressed that
by a committee which included 
like all pictures, has to be inter­
rectors and used to reach stu­
preted properly." 
dents in the form of a 
mimeographed sheet on which 
discussions which are taking
students marked their ratings, 
place now between the Office of
Student Affairs and individual
rectors, Cafareeli said. He said
that the rector's self-evaluation
84 school year as a measure to 
and other information about the 
help reach more students. At 
that time, the survey was given 
to a random sample of roughly 
Although some areas of
10 percent of the on-campus 
evaluation on the form may be
population; this year, every stu­
considered more important than 
others, Cafarelli would not
discuss what these areas are
, ,creased ease of tabulation, he 
said. 
a specific message to rectors, it
Last -year, no form at all was 
is trying to show them one view
distributed. This w!l,s beca~.~ of 
of how well they are doing their 
the transition between fo.rma(s:­
job.
The office was unable to have 

In Brief 
Ferdinand Marcos, former Philippines president, lost a bid yesterday to prevent his financial records from being turned over to the new Manilla government when a federal judge refused to intervene in the case. The new administration of President Corazon Aquino is eager to see the records as it attempts to piece together the story of what is said to be an estimated wealth of $5 billion, mostl amassed during a presidency when his salary was about $5,000. 
A statue of a black stable boy in front of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house at the University of Florida prompted complaints to the student affairs office from students, staff and faculty. Althought the chapter president defended the statue as traditional, and not indicative of any racial bias, he said it elicits mixed feelings from the fraternity members. The student affairs office is investigating the complaints. -The Observer 
Elections will be held today for the Student Senate, off­campus commissioner and class officers. Voting will be held in the dorms from ll :30 to 1:30 and 4:30 to 6:30 and in LaFortune Stu­dent Center lobby from 12 to 5. Run-offs will be held on Thursday if necessary. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Father Graham McDonnel of the Good Shepherd Movement, Kyoto, Japan, will be available for anyone interested in being a missioner for one year. He will be in the Library Con­course from 9 a.m. until 2 p.m. or at the Center for Social Con­cerns from 2 p.m. until4:30 p.m. -The Observer 
The Fighting Irish Toastmasters Club will no longer meet. Tonight's meeting is cancelled. -The Observer 
The last day to register to vote in the May 6 primary in St. Joseph County is March 21. Anyone, especially freshmen, in­terested in registering should contact John Husmann (283-1845), Allison Fahrenkopf or Matt O'Toole (283-2398). -The Observer 
Women United for Peace and Justice is sponsoring a trip to the Peace Museum in Chicago on Saturday, AprilS. Admis­sion to the museum is 50 cents for students. Tentative time of departure is 11 a.m. with return to Notre Dame by 6 p.m. Anyone interested should leave their name at the Center for Social Con­cerns by Thursday. -The Observer 
The Kell022 Institute is sponsoring a program en­titled "Theater andSociety in Chile" at 7 p.m. in room 210 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. Many aspects of theater in Chile will be ad­dressed by the five speakers. -The Observer 
Rasta will be selling T -shirts at both dining halls tonight during dinner. Proceeds will support the rally against starvation. ­
The Observer 
Weather 
Saint Mary's quick response averted worsening of tragedy 
The true test of an individual or of an institution often does not come until that person or institution faces a crisis situation. The recent discovery of a stillborn baby found at Saint Mary's, in a LeMans hall trash can, has shown the character of the Col­lege. 
Most larger colleges or universities might consider such a situation a tragedy, but not one that would af­fect the entire community. 
At a small institution such as Saint Mary's, however, such an incident did affect the entire com­munity, including administrators, faculty and students. 
Rumors were rampant at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's after the baby was discovered the morning of Feb. 28, the same morning William hickey was an­nounced as Saint Mary's new president. 
first reports were exaggerated of course; the birth was immediately deemed an abortion by the rumor mill. Stories grew worse from there. 
Such a situation had the potential to harm the stu­dent involved even further. The College, however, acted quickly to quell rumors and aid other students who had the misfortune of being nearby when the baby was discovered by a cleaning woman. 
Not only students in the woman's section of the dorm were deeply affected by the incident. The thought of a fellow student goving through such a troubled time, alone and hopeless, produced com­passion, shock and a sense of fear and vulnerability. 
Saint mary's administrators acted on this im­mediately, by first arranging counseling for members of the woman's section in LeMans, and later for the rest of the campus. A prayer service was held Sunday night after the incident. Resident assistants all over campus were instructed to meet with students and answer questions they still might have had about the incident. 
The following Sunday, small groups of faculty and staff traveled from section to section in each residence hall. These groups held informal discus­sion groups which answered questions such as the condition of the woman, the health and size of the baby, and whether it was baptized. 
Not only were members of the community shock­ed by the discovery of the baby's body. Since the in­cident had originally been under police investiga­tion, court documents were open to the media. The story began appearing on the Associated Press wire, in USA Today and other newspapers around the country. The report of an apparently unknown pregnancy in a small, affluent Catholic school had great news potential, and the media jumped on it. 
Subsequent letters from administrators followed during the next week: from Mary Feeley, director of Campus Ministry, inviting students and faculty to a special liturgy; William Hickey, College president; and Mary Anne O'Donnell, acting dean of student affairs; assuring students the woman was in good condition and helped to clear the air of any remain­ing rumors. 
Some students were quick to criticize what they saw as an unhealthy atmosphere about sexuality at the College, and pointed to it as a cause for the stu­dent's situation deteriorating to that point. 
Thenesa A. Gua1rino 
Saint Mmy's Executive Editor 

Saint Mary's, however, has made a point this year to try and provide an open-minded atmosphere on campus about sexuality, as shown in their Sexuality Education Series, sponsored in February by the Sex­uality Education Council. 
The student involved was a freshman who perhaps was not aware of the services available to her, or un­willing to reveal her situation to anyone. No in­stitution or individual can be blamed for what hap­pened. Students should be more concerned with aiding the woman in her return to the College com­munity, if she chooses to return, than pointing fingers. 
Most talk about the incident has now passed, and by the end of the year nearly all will be forgotten for those not directly involved in the incident. Quick response, squelching of rumors, prayer and counseling, were necessary and the College provided them. What could have been an even more harmful incident was tempered. 
Individual members of the college and the in­stitution itself rose to the occasion and alleviated a tragic situation. 
J-~
fsoaETY~ 
How you live may save your life. 

Your Irish hangover should go away if you stay in bed today. There will not be a Jot to go outside for because it will be rainy and windy today with a chance of thunderstorms. There will be a high in the low to mid-50s. Showers and windy conditions are expected to continue tonight as temperatures drop to the mid to upper 30s. Look for temperatures to remain cooler tomorrow with highs in the upper 30s to lower 40s. -AP 

---Ihe-Ob.se~~er--------­
-.L-=-Y~ 

The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
Th~ Observ~r ( l 1SPS 599 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during c:xam and vacation periods. Th~ Obse~r is published by the siUdentsofthe l'niversity of Notre: Dame: and Saint Mary's Coll.,gc:. Subscriptions may be purch~d for 130 per y~ar ( JlO per ~mc:stc:r) by writing Th~ Observ~r. P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, Indiana 
~6';~6. Th~ Observ~r is a member. of Th~ Associated Press. All rc:production rights arc: r.,srrvc:d. 
BIBLICAL JOURNEY V 
WITH FATHER JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, C.S.C. Professor of Theology, The University of Notre Dame 
This journey is intended for people who do not want a tour dis­guised as a pilgrimage. It will be a serious journey to the land of holy places-Canaan/Palestine/Israel & Judah-the land of Jesus. the home of His Hebrew forebears, and the shrine for His Christian and Moslem believers. 


We shall visit quite a few places, but shall take the time to read appropriate scripture passages in situ and to meditate. We shall not be staying at luxury hote;s, but at clean, comfortable places chosen for their proximity to the holy sites, where we will be well fed. Our guides, our invited lecturers and I shall offer background information-history, ar­shaeology, exegesis-but we take it that your main interest is a more immediate religiou;:; and theological understanding of the biblical faith. Therre is also the ancient beauty of the stones which has its own power beyond explanation. 
I am hoping that we form a friendly fellowship on this journey and enjoy some worship together. Fr. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
THE HOLY LAND-May 24-June 8, 1986 ------------------------------------­
For color brochure send coupon to: 

$1,899 from N.Y.-$2,045 from Chicago. 
BI8LICAL JOURNEYS V 

The cost includes round trip from New 61 Mak, Street • Southampton, NY 11968 York or Chicago on SWISSAIR, 1 night or phone 1-800-645-0298 
Netanya, 4 nights Tiberias, 9 nights or from N.Y. 1-516-283-8660 
Jerusalem. daily breakfast and most 
umners, 9 touring days. 
NAME 

7 NIGHT-ITALY EXTENSION to Rome 
ADDRESS-------------­

and Assisi. June 8-15. $525. I l CITY_____STATE______... I P ____ 
•
I I 
Tuesday, March 18, 1986 -page 3 

The Observer 
Reagan surprised at St. Pat's lunch 
Associated press 
WASHINGTON -As President Reagan sat down for a St. Patrick's Day lunch of corned beef and cab­bage, a leprechaun jumped on the chair next to him in the Cabinet Room and quickly twisted a long green balloon into a shamrock. 
Aides whispered the shenanigan was the work of another Irish­American in the White House, Chief of Staff Donald Regan. 
The president, taking note of a roomful of reporters and camera crews not usually permitted at his weekly policy lunch with senior ad­visers, looked around as he entered the room and said, "Guess who's coming to lunch." 
He already had marked the feast day of Ireland's patron saint at a White House Rose Garden ceremony with Prime Minister Gar­rett FitzGerald of Ireland. Wearing a large green shamrock lapel pin, the president, who is of Irish des­cent, reminisced with FitzGerald about his trip to Ireland two years ago and pledged support for a $250-million U.S. aid package to help Ireland implement its historic accord with Britain on the future of Northern Ireland. 
So Reagan hardly seemed prepared for the pranks that came later. But his Irish eyes were smil­ing when, just as he took his seat for lunch, the door opened, and abagpiper in full regalia marched in 
SPRING BREAK PART 
in Ft. Lauderdale, FL Thurs., March 27, 1986 from 9om-??? 
,\\t.,­
5755 N Powerline Road 
JS. :-!f1921' 
VJ ~ower l~r.c (N w'l Avt )-. " ( 
~+"~I0fQ10
£ AJ.. A ~ 
SENIOR FORMAL 
TUXEDO SPECIAL 
Classic Black Tuxedo 
Regularly 544°0 

38.00 
All other tuxedos, tolls and Evan Picone selection 
Regularly $46.00 -$57.50 
42.50 

Measurements and 
style selection at LaFortune Mar.18&19 7-9pm 
FIRST CHOICE, GUARANTEED 
For more Information, call Allen x3218 

University ParkiMon.-Sat. I0-9tSun. 12-5:30 
followed by a young lady who danced a high-stepping jig behind the president's chair. 
Reagan kept smiling through a solo of "Oh Ronnie Boy," sung by Daniel Sugrue to the tune of "Dan­ny Boy." 
But he looked genuinely taken aback when Alfedo Comignani, a 4-foot, 2-inch clown in green top hat and tails, rushed into the room, identified himself as "the under secretary" and climbed onto the chair next to Reagan's to blow up a balloon. The ersatz leprechaun quickly twisted the green balloon into a shamrock and presented it to the president "on behalf of Irish Americans all over." 
In the Rose Garden earlier, Fit­zgerald presented Reagan with a large Waterford crystal bowl filled to the brim with fresh shamrocks and a two-foot crystal replica of the Statue of Liberty. 
In a statement issued in honor of the holiday, Reagan said the day recognized "the many achievements sung and unsung, of the Irish men and women who have made this a better and happier world." 
HOW TO AVOID THE DANGERS 
OF COUNTERFEIT AUTO PARTS 
INFERIOR ::>ARTS COULD THREATEN YOUR SAFETY 
Today, a counterfeiter no longer has to print phony twenty-dollar bills. Selling imitation automotive replace­ment parts-packaged to resemble products fmm legit­imate manufacturers-is big business. 
For people who buy and use counterfeit auto parts, though, the conse­quences can be costly. For example, body panels may require expensive labor to bring their finish quality up to the rest of the car. Bogus oil filters have failed after 200 miles, causing unpro­tected engines to seize up, requiring their complete replacement. 
Inferior transmission fluid has solidified at 0° Fahrenheit. ruining trans­missions. And counterfeit antifreeze has eaten right through aluminum parts. 
The failure can be safety-related. A fatal 1985 bus accident in Britain was attributed to the installation of counte1feit brake parts. Ill­fitting counterfeit gas caps can fall off. increasing the risk of a fire in a roll-over accident. 
Here's how to make sure you receive parts that are made to work best in your GM car. Your most reliable source is your GM dealer. He can supply any part for your GM car or truck. Buying popular brand parts from reputable stores or garages is another way to improv~ your chances of getting the right part. But ,_,, herever you buy, be sus­picious of discounts that seem too good to be true. 
Some tip-offs that a 
part might be ~ounterfeit: 
Flimsy packaging. 
Lack of name-brand 
identification such as 
AC-Delco. 
"Look-alike" graphics or a change in the spelling of a recognized trade name. In this way counterfeiters can avoid prosecution under the 1984 Trademark Counter· feiting Law. So examine the package carefully. 
If a replacement part doesn't fit easily, you should probably return it. A repu­table distributor will almost certainly give you a refund or credit. 
General Motors is tak­ing strong measures in the 
U.S. and overseas to put a stop to parts counter­feiting. GM is trying to stop the problem at its source. 
So far we've helped U.S. marshals confiscate parts in raids on 29 counterfeiting operations. Another eight operations have been un­covered and prosecuted in foreign countries. 
GM is also developing a hologram identification device, much like those be­coming popular on credit cards, to improve security in our parts distribution. 
After all, General Motors has a tremendous investment in GM parts that work together to give our customers safe. reliable cars and trucks. We want our cus­tomers to be confident they can maintain their GM vehi· cles at the same level of high quality we build them. 
This adt·crtisni!CIIt is j)(trt 4 ottr tolltil!lfillg tfjill-t to git't' mslomt•rs us(!itl i11./illna!io11 a/Jo11f tl1cir mrs 1111d trlll'ks aJI(/ the m/1/j)({IIY tltot l11tild.~ the111. 

Chevrolet • Pontiac Oldsmobile • Buick Cadillac • G:V1C 'II·Pck 

Piled up 
Rescuers work Sunday in the rubble that was the New World hotel in Singapore. The hotel collapsed "like a deck ofcards" Saturday, killing at least six people. As many as 100 still could be trapped in the debris. 
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 

....-.---------..!.-------------'-----------1 
Leckey to speak about influences in SMC 'Spiritual Roots' lecture 
Special to the Observer 
Dolores Leckey, Executive Direc­tor of the United States Bishops' Committee on the Laity, National Conference of Catholic Bishops, will discuss the book, "Practical Mysticism: A Little Book for Nor­mal People," by Evelyn Underhill on Wednesday, March 19, from 
12:15 to 1:00 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall, Saint Mary's College. 
Leckey, considered to be one of the most influential women in the North American Catholic Church today, will present her discussion as part of the "Spiritual Roots" series of reflections on works by, on and about women who have influenced 
Cheat 
continuedfrom page 1 
The fourth recommendation 

stipulates that exams should nor­
mally be proctored. The report 
states that professors are responsi­
ble for ensuring a "format of 
honesty" if exams are not proc­
tored. 
The fifth recommendation 

assigns the "prerogative of the in­
dividual professor" to determine 
whether a penalty shall be decided 
by the professor himself or the ap­
propriate College Honesty Com­
mittee, or if a letter should be sub­
mitted to the appropriate dean. 
Such a letter would remain on file 
until graduation to determine pat­
terns of cheating, according to the 
report. 
The report that in either case the 
punishment would be determined 
by the professor or the College 
Honesty Committee, with student 
appeals of professor decisions to 
the committee available. 
The creation of these College 
Honesty Committees would replace 
all existing departmental honesty 
committees, and their membership 
would be divided equally between 
students and faculty, according to 
the report. 
The report also states that these 
committees would encourage 
anonymous reporting of cheating 
in specific courses. 
The sixth recommendation re­

quires the penalty for second viola­
tions of academic honesty, as 
recognized by a College Honesty the spiritual lives of others. 
"Practical Mysticism" is about developing the human capacity to see and celebrate the mystery of God in ordinary life events. Accor­ding to Leckey, Underhill places mysticism within the context of reality, and therein lies the appeal of mystical development for the secular Christian. 
According to Leckey, the in­fluence of this particular work on her life was felt many years ago when it, along with other pieces by Underhill, helped her to believe that she, too, could live in intimacy with the Divine Reality. "Underhill identified for me the deepest long­ing of my soul and pointed to the 
Committee or dean, to be suspen-,.__________________________, 
Factors listed by the report in­clude testing in cramped rooms, identical tests in successive semesters, and inadequate comple­tion time for computer assignments. 
University Honesty Committee member Professor Robert Wegs said the Academic Council discuss­ed modifying the report recommen­dation that leaves to the individual professor the decision whether or not to report an infraction to a dean with "something sterner." 
He said the possibility of in­cluding a requirement that pro­fessors report infractions was discussed. 
Citing the different attitudes of faculty on reporting cheating, Wegs said the procedure suggested by the report "could lead to ine­quities." 
Committee member Professor Stephen Batill said that while the present policy requires faculty to report infractions to departmental ·honesty committees, the procedure is rarely followed. 
"I believe that if you have a rigid and formalized set of procedures, that doesn't allow for individuals with experience to make value judgments," Batill said. 
Wegs said the issue should prove a "big debating point" in the up­coming campus discussions of the report. 
The research of the committee examined faculty and student opi­nion and the academic dishonesty policies of peer institutions, said student committee member Robert central core of meaning around which I have chartered the course of my life," Leckey said. 
Leckey is the author of "The Or­dinary Way: A Family Spirituali­ty," published in 1982. Her newest book, "Prophetic Question: Laity Stirring the Church," will be published this year. In addition, she is a contributing author to several books and executive editor of two publication of the United States Catholic Conference. 
She is also a staff associate with the Shalem Institute for Spiritual Formation. 
Her presentation is sponsored by the Center for Spirituality and is open to the public, free of charge. 
Molnar. He said the four student committee members "were very much involved" in the research and formulation of the recommenda­tions. 
Malloy also said academic dishonesty is "not a problem Notre Dame is encountering alone." He said many universities, including Harvard, are reevaluating their policies. 
The University Honesty Com­mittee began evaluating Notre Dame's present policies and in­vestigating alternatives last fall on appointment of Provost Professor Timothy O'Meara. 
Takeover 
continuedfrom page 1 
was released, Neary said, and the 
two other hostages were said to be 
unharr·1. Inmates said conditions on Death 
Row were to blame for the upris­ing, according to Vicki Soukup, the LaPorte reporter. "They seemed -real calm and real serious," she said. "They are upset about double-ceiling and about fre­quent shakedowns by prison guards." 
In Indianapolis, meanwhile, Cor­rection Department spokesman Vaughn Overstreet said Wallace and Boyd were believed to be the spokesmen for a group that includ­ed as many as 14 inmates. 
sion or dismissal. 
The seventh recommendation calls for programs to be developed which "foster discussion about honesty as a value." 
The eighth recommendation states that the faculty and ad­ministration should pay attention to "environmental factors which seem to increase the instances of cheating." 
ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS Center for Non·Violence Education seeking full-time staff. LOOging, $150/mo., & health coverage. Public interest research and publishing on aggression, developing courses on nonviolence and operating National ~tion on Television Violence <Tv: films, war toys, sport.'!, etc.). Next tAl University of Ulinois. One year commitment with$1500 separation stipend. Student loans deferrable 217-384-1920. Resume to Thomas Radecki, M.D., Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820. 

The Proof 
Is In 
the Taste! 
()pea No--sat lla• 
l'laG-Sandulkha-Salaa 
·-··­
Beer& Wlne 277-Hao
..............,.,., 
(lfat-·--·· 

ENGINEERING JUNIORS 
ENGINEERING GRADUATE SCHOOL 
Why? Why Not? 

Sponsored by 
Office of Engineering Research and Graduate Studies College of Engineering Univenity of Notre Dame 
AP Photo 
Easter hunt 
Worker at the Fanny Farmer candy plant in Norwalk, Ohio, looks over some of the 1.2 million "pecan dixie" candies made weekly in preparation for Easter. Last year, Americans spent $750 million for 250,000 tons ofEaster candy, according to the company. 

OPEC 
continuedfrom page 1 
vacillated between $12 and $13 a barrel. 
There were unconfirmed rumors that cartel members were close to a production sharing agreement under which prices would .stabilize between $15 and $20 a barrel. It was not clear where the rumors originated and they appeared to conflict with the atmosphere of uncertainty the session had created so far. 
Ramzi Salman Abdul Hussain, acting chief delegate from Iraq, said a consensus favored cutting OPEC production and reinstating output quotas. But Libyan Oil Minister Fawzi Shakshuki said there had been no agreements and no proposals put forth. 
Lent Penance Service 
TONIGHT, March 18 
10.00 p.m. 
HOMlLIST: Rev. Andre Leveille 

Sacr<>j Heart Olurch UliwrAI ty of Notre nllOC' 

N.D. SENIC,R FORMAL 
TlUXEDO 
Designers:: Pienre Cardin Bill Blass Y.S.L., Dynasty, Miami Vice 
(Vvho's Evan Piccone?) Loolc: Around Before You Rent 
$36'-$46 
Century Formalwear 
162:2 Mishawaka Avenue 
287-5938 

----------------------------* 

Accent 
Tuesday, March 18, 1986-page 5 

A slightly late St. Paddy's day poem 
Today is green and awash in beer KrlsMurphy 
so drink, drink, drink 'till you can't hear 
Altered 
Drink to friends drink to health drink to spring drink to wealth
I think that I It stands for food have never known that tastes like glue 
Drink to St. Patty 
a roofas beautiful it standsfor gold 
a holy guy 
as our dome and also blue 
he was Irish and that's no lie
'cause what it stands for Itstandsfor grottos I must say and football teams 
He hit the bars 
is something it stands for courage 
and helped the poor
you don'tfind today and sacred dreams 
who could ever ask for more?
It stands for knowledge It stands for beer brave and true that we can't drink 
So on this day 
it stands for Knute it stands for paper 
be proud and smile
and me and you and books and ink 
that yourfamily's from the Emerald Isle 
It stands for priests It stands for today and those great collars a special one 
Then lookup
it stands for parietals St. Patty's Day 
and see the dome 
and alumni dollars Fun, fun, fun! 
for Irish a home awayfrom home 
Paintings reveal past heritage of Notre Dame 
hands. People were so caught up m his work that he was asked to stay
MARK NEMEC 

and teach art at Notre Dame. He features writer gladly accepted. 
I remember taking a tour of our campus during the summer before Fortunately, the fire of 1879 that my senior year in high school. I destroyed many buildings on cam­remember walking through the pus did not harm the church or his large, oak doors on the second paintings. late in 1881, after the floor of our administration new administration building was building and seeing the beautiful constructed, Gregori became in­paintings of Columbus and his spired to paint his now famous wall voyage to the new world. Then, an murals of the Columbus expedi­odd thought hit me. Why are these tion. Gregori's work was so ac­murals here and who painted them? claimed that one of the murals 
received national recognition. The center mural, entitled "Columbus's The paintings were created by an Return and Reception at Court," 
Italian artist named Luigi Gregori. was used by the United States Gregori .:arne to Notre Dame government as a design for the to­around 1875 at the invitation of cent stamp at the time of the Col­Father Edward Sorin. Sorin met umbian Exhibition in chicago in the artist during the first American 1892. pilgrimage to Lourdes, to which he was a member. During this trip, Sorin met Pope Pius IX and began Another interesting fact about 
discussing his plans for decorating the murals is that many of the faces Sacred Heart, the new church of the individuals portrayed are the erected on campus. He told the ho­
faces of priests at Notre Dame dur­
ly Father that he wanted to ing that time. For instance, the face decorate the chapel and was in the of columbus, in all but the deathb­process of looking for a good artist ed portrait, is the face of Father The Observer I Jim Carroll for this purpose. The Pope sug­Thomas E. Walsh, who was Notre 
Some ofthe paintings done by Luigi Gregori ofthe Columbus expedition in the Administration Building 
gested Gregori, saying his work was Dame's seventh president in 1883. "thoroughly acceptable." Two The face of the monk in the deathb­other friends of Sorin recommend­ed scene is that of Father Neyron, a ed the artist, so they arranged a priest who absolutely refused to sit meeting and were introduced. The for a portrait. Gregori knew this result of their meeting was that so, at dinner one day, he sketched Gregori signed a contract to come Neyron's facial features on an to Notre Dame for three years to envelope and proceeded to use it in. 
create the 14 panel paintings of the the picture. It stil remains as the Way of the Cross. only known portrait of the priest. The artist himself is on one of the walls. In the center mural, Gregori is standing behind the red drape on Sorin and Gregori arrived in the right side observing Columbus's South Rend during the summer of reception. 1874. Over the next few years, Gregori painted the 14 stations plus 
In the early 1890s, Gregori
the ceiling of the great church. 
finished his work at Notre Dame.
Observers were extremely impress­He returned to Italy and passeded. Gregori had a great sense of away in 1896 at the age of 77. Heperception in his work, although he left a definite mark on our universi­seldom came down from his scaf­ty and his paintings have definitely folding 60 feet off the ground. 
stood the test of time, thanks to hisAnother amazing characteristic use of mineral colors. Mineral col­about the painter was the ease and ors, instead of artificial or chemicalspeed at which he painted. He colors, shed dust and resist peeling. 
created one of the stations within a Because of his dedication and useweek and was sometimes seen pain­of color, Gregori has left a lastingting the ceiling with a brush in both 
reminder of Notre Dame's past in our present times. 




~i~~~_()__i_ll__t___________________
T._ues-day_,M_ar-ch-18,_19-86--pa--ge6 

Process of making Christians impoverished at ND 
------------~---­
The March 4 edition of The Observer car­ried an article by Lester Flemons concerning the making of converts to Catholicism at Notre Dame. It should be said at the outset that this letter is not intended as a critique of Flemons' reporting. His unfamiliarity with the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults is quite apparent, and a greater attention to detail generally would have improved the ar­ticle. 
Michael X. Ball 
guest column 
But on the main issue of how the process of preparation for baptism is understood by University Ministry, it is my suspicion that Flemons has reported accurately. More is the pity. 
The Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults was promulgated by Pope Paul VI in January, 1972. The rite is really several things: it is a ritual which in stages, prepares unchurched individuals for initiation into the Church, sacramentalizing the process of con­version to the faith in Jesus Christ; it is, at another level, a philosophy of Church life, emphasizing as it does, the active role to be played by all members of the baptized com­munity in the making of new Christians (parishes often engage as many as 50 to 100 individu-als in DIRECT contact with even a small group of candidates for baptism); it is, in this connection, a sort of blueprint for building up the Christian Church. 
What it is not, alas, is everything the arti­cle depicts it to be. It is not "an organiza­tion;" it is not primarily concerned with the transmission of Roman Catholic doctrine; more basically (and more importantly), it is not preparation for "Catholic" baptism -it is Christian initiation (including baptism, con­firmation, and eucharist) for which the catechumens are preapred. 
The clearest indication of the importance of this distinction is seen in the fact that Christians baptized in communions other than Roman Catholic are not rebaptized when they join the Roman Church. "Conver­sion" was the term in common use prior to Vatican II for describing the shifting of membership from one Christian denomina­tion to another. It did not carry, at that time, doctrinal overtones. 
To "convert" meant to accept the confes­sional beliefs and practices of the body one sought to join. In the aftermath of Vatican II the rite understands conversion very dif­ferently, as a process by which "hearts (are) 
Doonesbury 
opened by the Holy Spirit ... " so that the catechumens might "adhere to him who is in the way, the truth, and the life," being "call­ed away from sin and drawn toward the mystery of God's love," (nos. 9, 10). 
The rite envisions this as an open-ended process which may last several years, and the emphasis is on the spiritual development of the whole person. The approach apparently being taken by University Ministry, under Father Andre Leveille, is fundamentally out­moded. The rite understands, and clearly states, that conversion to Jesus Christ cannot be accompli-shed by two semesters of classroom instruction. 
If the Flemons article accurately describes the process of making Christians here at Notre Dame, that process is profoundly im­poverished. The teaching of doctrine is only one of four main aspects of the preparation for baptism. The rite speaks of the role of the sponsor, in helping the candidate to learn to pray more easily, to witness the faith, to trust in the Lord and to exercise Christian charity (no. 19). 
This is accomplished, in part, by an inten­sive relationship between sponsor and catechumen, by trust growing from Chris­tian charity, by the sharing of life stories to teach the Christian life in a concrete way. If the article is correct, Leveille's "sponsors" are limited to reading a catechism with the candidate, one hour per week. 
Finally, the catechumenate involves the preparation of the candidates for the "apostolic" life. This is accomplished by their insertion into what we hope is the active life of the community in spreading the Gospel and building up the Church (no. 19). 
Whatever the local church is doing in the larger surrounding community, the catechumens should be included, helped gradually to take part in the apostolic work of the Church. At Notre Dame this might mean a planned involvement in some of the many pastoral activities of the Center for Social Concerns. If the article is accurate, Leveille's program seems to neglect this dimension, as well. 
Many people feel that the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults is the "jewel" of the con­ciliar renewal. It understands Christian faith and the life of the Church in dynamic terms. I have personally seen it bring new life to a parish which had practically ceased to exist. In our day, we need committed Christians, people who follow Jesus and live the Chris­tian Gospel with their whole being. 
The rite takes Christian baptism seriously; it knows the woundedness of our world can be healed by people who are willing to give deeply of themselves. This is why it places its emphasis on the conversion of the whole per­son. 
University Ministry, by this account and others, is doing its student catechumens a great disservice. Leveille appears obsessed with the teaching of a catechism and with denominational distinctions which cause him to make such unfortunate statements as: "We are preparing them for Catholic bap­tism." 
Significantly, the rite-the official Roman ritual -does not use the term "Catholic." There is really no "Catholic" baptism. We are baptized into Christ, not into a body of doctrine. 
Under the present conditions, it is the stu­dent catechumens who are deprived, depriv­ed! of the full riches of Church life. But it is also the Church which is deprived, deprived of the breadth and richness of these new per­sonalities, deprived of the full spirit of these 
ne:w Christians. 
Come the time of their baptisms, they may be: able to pass a test on "Church teachings," but will we know them, and will they know us? And if we fail to know each other, how, pray tell, shall we know the Lord? 
Michael X. Ball is a Notre Dame graduate student. 
Switek and Montanaro led a revolution at ND 
It may have been the first election won with crayons. 
But it is not; it was a statement by 2,112 students that they are fed up with student government and elections. Mike Switek and Don Montanaro led a revolution of sorts this past week, a revolution against traditonal stu· dent politics. From the way some people talk, it seems that anarchy will sweep over Notre Dame because Switek, not Jim Domagalski, was elected to lead us. 
Eric M. Bergamo here's to future days 
52 percent of those who voted favored the Switek ticket. Switek did not offer to trans· form social life at Notre Dame into a paradise overnight. Switek did not promise that the ad­ministration would suddenly start to listen to student demands once they were in office. Switek did not have the gleaming credentials of his opponent. What Switek did offer was a fresh break from the drudgery of"I can do the job better because ... " of past student elec­tions. Switek gave us a campaign that was fun and out of the ordinary. Their comical cam­paign posters were a pleasing respite from posters that droned on and on about can· didates' qualifications and platforms that of· fered everything except the moon. Let's face it, Switek and Montanaro bucked the tradi­tional student political system. And they won. 
After the unintentionally funny administra­tion of Bill Healy, Switek will be a well-deserved change. Instead ofhaving a stu· 
Garry Trudeau 

Ml?. RSJFERN! N0,5/MPIETOAJ! RJGHTAWAY,
7H15GIJY Ht:Y. MfY RIGHT.' 1;11 
liXJKS 7HEGENTL£­I lA/ANT YOU YOUR HEINOf.J5-ookrI 7D {JUMPMAN IN fRONT 70 IJRJVE HIM 5HIP! IWI TO
V&RY JUSTGRAB HIM Nt:AR
OF YOU! 7V THE AIR-ORJV& 7V TH/3. ..
f/J.MILIAR.. ACAB? 7Hc Air
PORT! 7D THE ..
/

0 / ' 
dent body president who is preoccupied with matters of political nature and ambitions, we m21y have a president that truly cares about the: welfare of the students and their lives at Notre Dame. We have a president who promises to make living at Notre Dame fun, to put the smiles back on our faces, to make stu­dent government accesible to the students of Notre Dame. 
It is time for those who voted for Domagalski to concede that their man was dt:feated and that the opponent has been ekcted president. It is time to put aside these fedings and unite behind Switek, for dissen· sion will only harm student government more than help it. We have the chance to truly change student government, but only if we act together as a community. 
Switek may not have promised the stars to us or blinded us with gleaming credentials and endless experience. But he does have en­thusiasm and a willingness to learn more about his new position. We cannot question that he deserved to be elected. He was ekcted, period. And now it is our respon· sibility to give him a chance to prove himself. 
There was a revolution here at Notre Dame, spearheaded by crayons and wit. Hopefully, this is the revolution, based in comedy and wit, that makes student government a joke no longer. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a sophomore govern­ment major enrolled in tbe College ofArts cmd Letters at Notre Dame. He is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"There is not a more mean, stupid, dastardly pitiless, sel­fiish, spiteful, envious, un­~;rateful animal than a man." 
William Hazlitt (1778-1830) "Table Talk," 1821 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Controller ....... -..................... William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Acfvertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ol the University ol News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloug, Acfvertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson administration of either instill.ttion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Pf!oduction Manager ....................... John A. Mennell sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of thetr authors. Column space •s Viewpoint Editor .........-.................. ......Joe Murphy available to all members of Jhe community and the free expression of varying opinions on Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf campus. through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Tuesday, March 18, 1986-page 7 
·­

Sports Briefs 
An Tostal co-ed Innertube Water Polo 
sign-ups will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in the information desk in LaFortune. Teams must field seven players at a time, two of which must be females. Teams may have a maximum of two current ND water polo team members or two varsity swimmers. Entry fee is $7 per team. For more information call Mike Roberts at 272-3971. 
The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club wm hold a meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Anyone in­terested in joining the club should attend. For more information call Kevin Laraley at 283-1148. -the Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a general meeting concerning the upcoming trip to Texas tonight at 7 in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building. For more information call Patricia Warth at 283-2759. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee signups will be held 
tomorrow between 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Main Lobby. Rosters must include a minimum of 10 players and ID ' numbers are required for all players. For more information call Lance Williams at 283-4020. -The Observer 
An Tostal mud volleyball signups will be held to­day and tomorrow from 3 to 5 p.m. at the LaFortune information desk. Teams must consist of seven players, at least two of which must be women. Teams are also limited to one current SMC or ND varsity volleyball player. Entry fee is $3 per team. For more infor­mation call Bob Albertini or Brian Aquadro at 283-1248. -The Observer 
Trivia night returns tonight on "Speaking of Sports" at 10 p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Hosts Rudy Brandl and Frank Mastro will give away valuable prizes for correct answers from callers to 239-6400. -The Observer 
A Bookstore Basketball meeting for all CaJr tains will be held on Wednesday, April2 at 8 p.m. m the Library Auditorium. Attendance is mandatory for all team captains. Schedules will be distributed and games will begin Friday, April 4. 
For  more  information  call  Steve  Wenc  at  283-2506.  - The  
Observer  
Observer Sports Briefs  are  accepted  Sunday  

through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number of the person submitting it. -The Observer 
Providence 
gaiDSWID 
in NIT 
Providence, an unlikely survivor among the six Big East teams that qualified for post-season basketball tournaments, avoided further em­harassment for the conference last night with a 90-71 victory over George Mason in the second round of the National Invitational Tour­nament. 
Providence, with Harold Starks and Steve Wright igniting a power­ful inside game that all but decided the issue early in the second half, was one of seven teams to advance last night to the NIT quarterfinals. ­
In other NIT games, it was Clem­son 77, Georgia 65; Florida 77, TCU 75; Southwest Missouri 83, Marquette 69; Louisiana Tech 77, McNeese State 66; Ohio State 71, Texas 65; and Wyoming 99, Loyola Calif. 90. 
The Obsen•t'r Notr~ Daml· oltk~. hKal~d on th~ third floor of lafortun~ Stud~nl C~nt~r. an·~pls dassifi~d adn~rtising from 9 a.m. until ~ p.m.. Mondn through Friday Tbe Obst'T'r•er Saini :vlan·'s offk~. I<Kal~d on lht' third t1;10r ,;f Haggar Colkgt' C~nt~r. alT~pls c.:lassifil·d, from ll:.~O p.m until ~ p.m.. :vlon· day though Frida\ l>~adlin~ for nt'XI·da\ da"ifit'd' i' ~ p.m All classifil·ds mu'l ht' prt·pald. l'ilhl·r •n pl·r,on or h\ mail ( hargt' is I 0 n·nt' pl·r fivt' l·haral·· 

Classifieds 
lt'r' ·r day 

NOTICES 
Typ1ng Av11lable 287·4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 
234-11117. 
ATTN: STUDENTS Oolorea Franc,. typing aerv1ce phone number change 2n·8131 
Wordproc-ng-Typing 272-8827 
TYPING. Fast. High-Quality. Call 287­9257. 
EXPERT TYPING IEIIVICE. CALL MRS. COKEII, 231-70011. 
PRQ-TYPE IPBclallzing In student papers, law ~. reaumea, dlaaerta­tione2n-5633. 
............................................... 
512 K MACINTOSH UPGRADE Cluallly wor1<. One day aervlce. Only $150, uve hundreda For morelnlo. call Chuck. 3302 
d/ICOVet 
....,0¥ ... 
DISCOVER 
DISCOVER 
Semi-furnished house In good neighborhood 255-368-4/277-3804 
Ft. Lauderdale apt. wk. may 17·24. $300. Call289-1973. 
Orad Room 1100/mo 277·2045 
LOST/FOUND I 
-atola my belly from a monday nltlhl party at 814 corey The only po$$e$$/on I have lhall$ worth anything, anolympua Clfllo10. I'm raelly 11011"" mlu II ao I'm wllllng to glva C88h lor lt'a retum. h -IMt-on a chair 
,_lila at.....,. II you have It and you have any unaa of dolcancy P'-call MoiNa -chant at 40311 
REWARD...S40.110 LOST Black tuxedo jacket with lalla and red bow tie. Both In while plullc bag loet 3/8 al OC Party on 
E. Navarre St. Need daaparately' Call 3810, Chuck. 
...................... 
Seml-lurnlahed houae In good neighbor· hood 255-3884t2n-3804 
Ft. Lauderdale apt. wk. May 17-24. $300. Call289-1973 
To whomever picked up D.J. Lally­3064B'a laundry on 3/6 or 3n: Whether you took my bundle(o) on purpoee or nol 11 of llnle conaequence to me--l juol need my clolheo and can't afford to buy all brand-new onetl Pleaae return them, and no matter what. abiOiutely no queationo will be uked Drop II by 350 Sorln or call 2111. Thanx. 
found; on Friday, t4 Mar. Pair of lake leat­her brown gloveo (allghlly) worn) on ooulh quad. Go to loel & lound In Lafortune lo claim. They are too omall for me. 
LOST: A SEIKO WATCH ON FRIDAY NOON. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THANG AT 3267 OR 209 KEENAN 
LOST SEIKO WATCH 14March While face, fake gold trim, LOST NEAR IN· FIRMARV OR SENIOR BAR, CALL JOHN at 2533 THANKS. 
LOST -light grey, while slag SKI JACKET · 2nd floor men's room LaFortune on 3111. If found call 2466 or bring to 1121 Grace. REWARD. no questions asked. 
HELPII!IIIoal My Walch Aboul Two WHka Ago. ll'a Black and Gold Striped And I Loa! II Around The Bualneu Building, Sl. Mlchaal'a Laundry, or Somewhere ElM Outalde. (watch It be In my room aomawherel PlaaH Contact Tony at1482. Reward 
S$S 

LOST: One clul ring with 8QUamarine birth alone. Any information leading toward recovery will be rewarded. call 1572. 
LOST --Ladlea gold watch on North Clulld or In North Dining Hal. Pleaae, pleaae call Unda(4135) If you find II. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BAND JACKET LEFT ON STEPAN 8-BALL COURTS TUES. 3/11. IF FOUND PLEASE CAll BRIAN AT 11451 
WANTED 
NEED RIDERS TO SOUTH FLORIDA AREA. CAN PROVIDE MEAL AND OVERNIGHT ACCOMIOATIONS AT FINEST MOTEL IN CLEWISTON. CALL X2571 
RIDE OFfERED TO DC/NO VA AREAl LEAVE 3120 and return 4/1. Call VIcki ai3793TODAYI 
Alders Wanted to Keys or anywhere enroule. Luxury van leaving 3/20 (pml Returning 4/4 Call Kellh 1382 
Ride needed back lo NO along 1-80 from Ohio Exit 6 afler break (3131 or 4/11. Call Dale at 1657 
NEED RIDE TO SOUTHEAST OHIO: COLUMBUS, CANTON, CLEVELAND, OR WHEELING. CALL KATHY 3690. 
NEED RIDE TO DAYTON AREA THURSDAY! CALL KATHY 3690 
HELP! MUST GET HOME THURS 31201 NEED RIDE TO O'HARE OR N CHIC. SUBS AFTER 2:30. JANE 2735 
WANTED: RIDERS TO/FROM TAMPA BAY AREA FOR BREAK. CALL KERRY 4508 
NEED RIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR BREAK. CALL MIKE AT 288-5355. 
I'm getting married at Sacred heart June 14. Am looking for OJ lor recap­lion. Must have sound system lo carry Monogram Room In ACC. From Springsteen lo Benny Goodman. Call 313·761-8198 or write 211 S. Ravena, Ann Arbor, Ml48103. Will pay well. 
NEED A MALE ROOMMATE IN HOUl­TON, TX, AFTER GRAD. CALL BOB x1743 
RIDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL NEW YORK FOR BREAK. Syracuse or Rochester prefered. Can leave any time Thursday alternoon or Friday morning. WIN share all expenses. Call Eric at1989. 
ADMINISTRATOR OF 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER Mature-minded Individual lo direct South Bend area office of nation­wide educationally oriented com­pany. Responsibilities Include recruitment of students, supervision of office and Instructional staff, public relations & outreach to academic & business communities. <;:andldates should have excellent communications & problem solving skills, demonstrative leadership abili­ty, experience working wllh lhe public and a talent for handling many responsibilities. Bachelor's degree required. Educational & business ex· perlence preferred. Compensation In mid-teens. Apply by wrlllng: Search Group, SHK EC, 131 West 56 Street, NYT,NY 10019. 
Need ride lo South Florida-Fort Lauderdale. Can leave anytime alter Thursday 3 pm. Call Rick at 277·2116. Desper ale, so help me out. 
Need riders to Pensacola, Fl Call John(15911 . 
RIDER TO SAN ANTONIO OR AUSTIN, TX AREA FOR BREAK. RENTING A CAR. INTERESTED? CALL STEVE K. AT1786. 
Need ride to Youngstown, Ohio for break can leave Thuraday after 7:00p.m. If you can help call Laura 272-6014 
Need ride lo Toledo area for Break call Tera 284-4194 
Need ride lo Dayton for break Brenda 284-5193 
FOR SALE 
ALUMNI AND RICH RIENDS: The Spirit of Rockne lives on! Picture youraelf In a Notre Dame blue 1933 Studebaker Rockne. Though an antique, II rune like new and locka snappy, loo. For details or a cloler look. call (219) 283·1373 
fa II Trua You Can Buy Jaepa lor 144 through the U.S. government? Get the facia todayl Call 1·312-742·1142 Exl. 7318. 
Yamaha guitar, $250; 3-speed bicycle, $30. Call289-3457. 
IMAGEWRITER I.Brand new. $300.00. 234-1672. 
TICKETS 
ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET: S. Bend/Newark, 3/22-3/31, $178, Call Oave4303 
ONE WAY PLANE TICKET So Bend-Denver-Phoenix Departure 3120 al 5:55 pm $95 Call272-3745 
Want lo buy llckels for Midwest regional finals march 21-22. Call 272· 1988 or 284-5626. 
PERS_O_N_A_L_S---.] 
21 years In lhe making -"THE AMOROUS ADVENTURES OF CRASH" · playing lhls Thurs. In 35 Pangborn. 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL: Jusl because OBUD doesn't appreciate you ..., thanks for running the ballot boxes and making elections possible. 
Bob Seger from Tulsa: How come you never eat lunch wllh us anymore? Is It cuz materials gets out early or you don't wanl to be friends? We miss eallng wllh a "gEEk." 
Janie needs a new pair of shoes-she really does II 
VIRGINIA CHOKES!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, Kelly Roaall May your cat enjoy Lhrar EnlrH' lor many yaaratocoma. 
ANNE, RIA, MO, SHAWN, AND LORI: HAVE A GREAT BREAK AND SAVE SOME FOR WHEN YOU RETURNI LOVINGLY, THE LADIES MAN 
THOMAS "TRAVELING MAN" BREN· NAN: CONGRATULATIONS AND BEST OF LUCK ON YOUR NEWLY ACCEPTED RESPONSIBILI­TYIIII YOUR FRIENDS FROM ND AND THOSE MOURNING WOMEN ON BOTH CAMPUSESIIII 
RACE THOMAN FOR OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER FUN & EXPERIENCE RACE II 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't have clone It without your help. 
M.H.B. T.O. 

I need a ride to Milwaukee. MMquene on Friday, March 21. I can leave alter 2. Call Margie &1284-4425. 
FRESHMENIIFRESHMENII Vote Keegan -IIMmon We'll work "with the class," not"as the class." 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I could hova navar done It without your help 
RIDE NEEDED:Io thai booming metropolls,KEWANEE,Il.(ON l­80)3/21or22 Share usual. Call Jack 2073 
'D CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS AREHEREI Be the liralln your dorm lo we8r the latest In sweatshirt fashions. Available at..... THE CELLAR M·F 11:30-4:30 
OAII HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CAIIRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
FREE COUPONS In lhe yellow pages of the Campus Telephone Directory. Use them today! 
Thank You Sl. Jude for all your help! Pleue continue to help mel 
BOSTON BOUND FOR SPRING 
BREAK? 
NEED A RIDE? OR GOING THRU ALBANY, SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUF~'.\LO OR ERIE? PLEASE join two inlereating domera on their to Hr~Md. We'llleave Fri March 21. PLEASE call3861 eoon. 
NEED A RIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C. MAIICH 27? Join two domera on their way back from SPRING BREAK. PLEASE CALL 3861. 
Found: peerl braclel on Eddy St. Seturday night. Call to claim-284-4138 
Do you RUN? Ale you ATHLETIC? Do you wanl people lo lhlnk you are ATH­LETIC? Do you like making up alorlea 10 shapely women or Godly men about your ATHLETIC past during Spring Break? Purchue one of Umlled number of official UNIV. of NOTRE.OAME TRACK & FIELD T-Shlrta($8) or GreySweatTopa($151. To ask queationo or lo gel anowera call TROZ al239-7634. 
ST. PATRICK'S DAY WEEKEND 
CELEBRATIONIII 
24-HOUR D.J.'S, IRISH RUN, PRE-IT. 
PATS BRUNCH, IT. PATI DAY BASH 
AND AWESOME FIIIEWORKSIII 
Applications lor 
TICKET STUB MANAGER 
now available at TlckeiStub. Due Wed. 
3119. Sign up for Interview llmee when 
you drop off your application at SAB 
office, 2nd floor LaFortune. Interviews 
held3/19. 
Calvin and Hobbes are godlike I 
....................... 
T·SHIRTS 
T-SHIRTS 
T-SHIRTS 
TO All THOSE KIND PEOPLE WHO 
ORDERED SPRING BREAK FOREVER 
T-SHIRTS THEY ARE INIII PLEASE 
CONTACT GEORGE OR TOM IN 370 
DILLON (PHONE 1854) YOU CAN PICK 
THEM UP NOW THROUGH BREAK SO 
DONTFORGETTHEMITHE"JUSTFOR 
PLEASURE" SALESMEN 
HEY! I'm going to 
Akron, Ohio The home of Ge<Ty Faust and lhe Akron Zips (the ones who played Michigan In the first round last week). So. like If you need aIHt from here to there or anywhere in bet­ween, give me a call. 283-1562 after 10pm-Andy. 
II your DEBITS don'l equal your CREDITS, Your ASSETS In jalll 
Ombudaman Presents 
Op«atlon Brafnatorm 
...coming eoon! 
Help I need ride deaperately to Min­neapolis for break will ahMe expenses cal Lee Ann 284-5520 Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE Ill 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: Monday· Thursday 5pm-12am. GIVE US A CAll. 
FEATHER FINCH LEY: All my love on our firsI. Mark 
HEY DAN NOW., 
HERE ARE A FEW LINES TO WISH YOU AND YOUR RUNNING MATES GOOD LUCK TODAY I FROM YOUR SOUTHERN CALIFOR· 
NIA BUDDY 
P.S.I CAN HARDLY WAIT FOR THAT DINNER I 
PIGS ARE HOT, HOTTER THAN ANY WOMANIll 
NEED A RIDE BACK TO ND? from D.C., CUMBERLAND, WHEEL· lNG, or COLUMBUS 
on Thuraday, March 27? PlaaH Join TWO INTERESTING OOMERS on their way back from SPRING BREAK!! PLEASE CALL 3881SOONII 
MARK PANKOWSKI CONGRATULATIONSIIIIII 
ATTENTION REPUBLICANSII 
ARE YOU REGISTERED TO VOTE? IF NOT, CALL EITHER JOHN AT 283­
1845 
OR MATT AT 283-2396 THE PRIMARY IS APPROACHING!! 
doug whal does one do in merrillville anyway bul wrlle about sexual con­ventions? one writes about castra· lion anxiety, al least In hobart. lsn'l 
Ihis a weird personal? ljusllhought I'd explain lhls lo bill In advance. 
SPECIAL THANKS to DUMAN, HUNT and all those wonderful people In the BIO Dept. lor keeping me safe, sober and In the library on ST. PArs. I'm apathetic and really dldn'l want lo have any fun anyway. 
Hay you guya, ObHI'Yar SWEAT· SHIRTSarelnllllll Plaaaa pick them up today!III 
Phil Wolf Marilyn Benchlk Chris Fortin Ed Nolan 
Patrick Creedon Tom Small M~ry Berger Mark Welmholl Ann Kallenbach Terry Lynch JIll Sarbenofl 
1983·84 Regina 5 North thanks for everything you made my birthday special I love you guys, Usa 
Remember, Nothing In this life Is easy, and anything worth having Ia worth fighting for. 
Love, YFR 
::-­


-------------~-------------~-----­
-· The Observer 
Three of top four seeds advance 
Longshots move on in NCAAs 
Soviet skaters dominate at Worlds 
Associated Press 
Down to the Sweet Sixteen, the NCAA basketball tournament still has an interesting mix of favorites and longshots as the road to Dallas weaves through four more regional sites this weekend. 
Three of the four top seeds sur­vived the sub-regional rounds, with only St. John's, assigned the No. 1 slot in the West, knocked out of the tournament. The other top seeds, Duke in the East, Kentucky in the Southeast and Kansas in the Midwest, all remain in business and are favored in their next games. 
Also still alive are longshots like DePaul and Cleveland State, No. 12 and No. 14, respectively, in the East region, Louisiana State, No. 11 in the Souteast, Michigan State, North Carolina State and Iowa State, who were Nos. 5-6-7 in the Midwest, and Auburn, which went as the No.8 in the West. 
The tournament resumes Thursday with West Regional games matching Auburn against Nevada-Las Vegas and North 
Associated Press 
GENEVA, Switzerland Soviets Ekaterina Gordeeva and Sergei Grinkov stole the show and an early lead over the defending champions yesterday in pairs com­petition at the World Figure Stak­ing Championships with a sassy, skillful routine to a ragtime beat. 
A 1-2-3 showing in the short pro­gram of pairs topped a good open­ing day for the Soviets. Defending world champion Alexander Fadeev gained an early edge with the low scorein the men's complusory figures. The top American, Brian Boitano, was fourth. 
The 4-foot-11, 14-year-old Gordeeva and the 19-year-old Grinkov, tallied mostly 5.8s and 5.9s from the judges. 
Five of nine judges awarded them first place in the two-minute compulsory short program, while defending titlists Elena Valova and Oleg Vasiliev won the top scores from the other four judges and were in second place. 
In third place were last year's runners-up, Larisa Selezneva and Oleg Makarov, appearing in their first international competition since being injured. 
Medals in pairs will be awarded today after the free-skating pro­gram. 
Fadeev, 22, of Moscow, skated clean figures to clear the top fac­tored place with a score of 0.6 in the men's event that kicked off six days of competition at Vernets Sports Center. 
Last night's strong start for Gordeeva and Grinkov continued a string of winning performances for the young pair from Moscow. They were last year's Junior World Champions and finished second at last month's European Champion­ships in their senior debut. 
To the strains of Scott Joplin and 
buoyed by the enthusiasm of the 
crowd, Gordeeva and Grinkov 
flawlessly finished all seven re­
quired moves. But it was their style 
-sometimes strutting down the ice 
arm in arm -that won the au­
dience. 
In fourth place were Canadian 
champions Cynthia Coull and 
Mark Rowson, while the U.S. 
champions Gillian Wachsman and 
Todd Waggoner were fifth. 
In second place in the men's com­
pulsory figures, which count 30 
percent toward the final score, was 
22-year-old Jozef Sabovcik of 
Czechoslovakia, with 1.2, while 
Heiko Fischer, 26, of West Ger­
many was third with 1.8. 

Carolina against Louisville at Houston. Kentucky plays Alabama and LSU faces Georgia Tech at Atlanta in· the Southeast matchups. 
Friday, the East Regional at East Rutherford, N.J. has Duke against DePaul and Cleveland State play­ing Navy. At Kansas City that night, the Midwest pairings are Kansas vs. Michigan State and 
N.C. State against Iowa State. 
The betting line runs from Duke as a comfortable 9 1/2-point choice over DePaul, to Auburn and Nevada-Las Vegas, listed as pick 'em. In between those extremes, Georgia Tech is favored by 8, Kan­sas by 7, Kentucky and Navy each by 3, N.C. State by 25 and North Carolina by 1. 
Kevin Mackey, Cleveland State's young coach, never had met In­diana coach Bobby Knight before the tournament. When they shook hands, Mackey said, "Go easy on us." Even though Knight knew bet­ter than to be sweet-talked into complacency, it didn't help the Hoosiers to avoid the upset. 
Boitano, 22, the American the past. "However, the figures are 
Duke forward Mark Alarie (32) goes up for a shot in a game

champ from Sunnyvale, Calif., was history now." 
against Old Dominion Saturday. The Blue Devils beat the Monar­

in fourth place with 2.4, while 
chs, and will face DePaul on Friday in the Eastern Regionals.

Canadian challenger Brian Orser, Among the women, re1gmng 
world and European titleholder More on the NCAA tournament appears at left. 
24, was in fifth at 3.0. Orser finish­
ed a close second to Fadeev at last Katarina Witt, 20, of East Ger­
year's world championships, when many, is the overwhelming •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
Boitano was third. favorite. But she'll be facing strong 
"I was a little disapointed," said challenges from a talented : Orser, a dynamic and athletic American trio led by U.S. cham­skater whose compulsory figures pion Debi Thomas, 18, of Stan­•
•

have not been his strong point in ford, Calif. 
•
•
•
•

SUMMIB STOBAGI SPAOI 
•

Special discount for •DtiMG atudent1 
•

(5 x 10 spaces and larger) 
• 
:

CALL 259·0885 to USIBVI SPACE 
SILF LOCK STORAGE OF MCKIRLEY 
816 East Me Kinley Mishawaka 
Security Patrol Checks 
TTENTION SENIORS. 
Senior Formal Bid Sale 
COST: $60 includes cocktail hour, dinner dance at Palmer 
Hou 
WHERE: Lafortune &LeMons Lobbies 
Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea,

WHEN: March 10-14,5-7 pm 
Taiwan, Hont~ Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt,

March 17-20, 5-7pm 
Turkey, Greec:e and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in January and September offering 12-15 transferable

Applications Availablt::---­hours of credit from more than 50 voyage-related
for______________________~ 

courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American­

the 1987 Dome_______. 
built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed.

Editor-in-Chief-------1 
For details call. toll-free (800) 854-0195

applications in Student Activities office 
or write:

(8:30-4:30) 
Semester at Sea first floor of LaFortune 
Institute: for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh, 2E Forbes Quadrangle*applications due by 4:30pm. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15260 March 20, at the Student 
Thursday, March 20th, llam-Jpm Information table at LaFortune Center 4:30pm Film on 2nd floor LaFortune Center International Studies Lounge 

Activies Office 
*Everyone encouraged to apply 

ALL INTERSTED STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE ENCOURAGED TO AITEND 

When Cleveland State beat St. Joseph's, Pa., in the second round, 20-year-old freshman Mouse McFadden, the team's high scorer, exulted, "That's for all you doubters, all you people who give everybody else the pub (publicity)." 
DePaul's publicity had been mostly bad during a 12-loss season. But the Blue Demons sprung con­secutive surprises on virginia and Oklahoma. 
Had the West seed held form, Nevada-Las Vegas would have played St. John's next. Instead, the Runnin' Regels will get a physical Auburn team, which eliminated the Redmen. Coach Jerry Tarkanian wasn't complaining though. "I'm just glad we're playing," he said. 
In the Southeast, LSU, which benefited playing the sub-regional round at home in Baton Rouge, faces a role reversal against Georgia Tech. Its next round is in the Omni at Atlanta, about 15 minutes from the Tech campus and where the Engineers have played a half dozen games this season. 

HAPI'Y BIRTHDAY : 

•
•
•
J. Josephine •
•
•
•
•
•
Isn't it nice to b~ legal? : 
Tuesday, March 18, 1986-page 9 

The Observer 
,-----­
1 
I 

•Amsof 
•Ame,•ciln Hvtlfon •Aosofl 
•Bausch & Lon-Q 
•Oblsort  
•Dutasoll  
UI.U ,­ 
• Tillt.-1 L-•  
• Bauscn & Lomo  
Narurar Tf!l!S  
• C1baso!t Colors  
'63.97 ,.,  
.,,._....,...,.L....  
•.AO Softcon  5571pr  
•Bao\ch& Lome  $451p1  
·~'V•s•on  
~rmdle"s  S67:p,  
•CSIT  S971po  
•DuiiSOI: J  S571p•  
•Ge"'~es•s 4  ~"~'D'  
•Hydrocurvl'  175:pr  

Of YOUR BRAND IS lloOT LISTED 'iE RE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SENQ YQy A OUQ!E 
r-------------,
I I 
: ..... u....... u.... -............ : 
I I 
I .............,_.,""'"""" ..'"'""'•-... , I 
I ~":.:::.·::.7:,~·:::;~'::.;;''...' 1'' I 
I  ·--­---------­_____  I  
I  I  
~ .. ..... ...~~!;..""'·  ........ :  

R I 
I 

R" .. ''""" Ul L..IOI: L I 
l''•tlvYir•t I 
,............... ' 
I I I --------------------I
I ,,...,,,,.,..,.... I 
L--------------1 
Aft ttwua ewetMttttllusr '"lllfJ. Nltl ''' ••1111h1• •• '"' .,,,,.,, llttety
...... 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
• Aco..t •• yh-.•• tO""'' prp con rae r 'IP"~ 
o•esc.•.o• or 
'C()I'I"'I'IIIP I~ 0101" [)(. ·cw­
l ~.IIIIPC ....C• ""C)nf'yOIOP• ()f comott-IIP t'e<:lo' caro .ntor~tOr· Deyl· OltotoC.LS •nc 
4 En< •ow '1IITIIP adQrrss & Df'l()ne "''IJ/r()IPIWI!f\()fQIPI 
~ ~il' ar· ont()l,..,..t•on IO 
Cont.ct Leu Supply, Inc. JOUO c.rter Rll. 
a.....Ollie 441,. 216/241·2416 
Contact Lens Supploers lor 25 years l'ttat Mlllll -,... .. tilly .. _t ,.W. UNO 
.,....-..... 
• ,..,... '_..,. --=2~.0~0­

_, 
...... 
YISA 


!P..-IoOot\tl crwcka musr be ctee•ed prq ro shlpf'nent) 
--·-----­.......--..... 
..................-.. Hio 
,.,..,.,... 
•M•.......................... 
.._... ...., ............ .. 
,._,, 
PGA Tour finds itself involved in controversy 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -The PGA 
tour is in turmoil. 
Mac O'Grady is threatening a 
court suit. Seve Ballesteros of 
Spain is muttering darkly of a per­
sonal vendetta. Dean Beman has 
proposed disciplinary action that is 
the most severe in the 12 years he 
has been commissioner. 
Bernhard Langer of West Ger­many is wrestling with complex tax problems that have a bearing on his part on the American tour. 
About 40-50 players held an im­promptu, closed door meeting last weekend "to discuss current pro­blems and possible solutions." 
Another meeting is scheduled tomorrow at New Orleans. That meeting precedes by one day Ballesteros' scheduled start in the only tour event in which he is eligi­ble this year and will follow im­mediately the first head-to-head session between the commissioner and O'Grady's attorney, Steve Novak. 
At the center of the complex situation -the partial banishment of Ballesteros, a proposed suspen­sion of O'Grady, the target of O'Grady's scathing comments -is the beleaguered Beman. 
He's under attack by O'Grady. He's under attack by Ballesteros. And he's being questioned by other players who support the positions of those two players. 
The tax situation facing Langer, winner of the Masters tournament, is the least controversial. 
Simply, the West German resi­dent and native is taxed on his worldwide earnings by his home country. To retain his non-resident alien status in the United States ­and thus avoid another tax on his worldwide earnings -he is limited in the number of days he can play in this country. That limitation prohibits him from playing the 15 American tournaments required by PGA tour regulations. 
Beman has indicated that an ac­commodation probably will be made. 
The flambouyant Ballesteros, perhaps the finest player in the world, was stripped of his member­ship on the American tour after failing to appear in 15 U.S. tour­naments in 1985, as he had agreed to do. He played in nine. 
Following tournament regula­tions in this case -which Ballesteros helped draft -the Tour Policy Board revoked his membership for a year and made him ineligible for PGA tour events. Exceptions were made for the Masters, U.S. Open and PGA (which are not PGA tour events) and this week's USF&G classic at New Orleans, in which Ballesteros is the defending cham­pion. 
O'Grady, in his fourth season on the tour, has made a series of bitter personal attacks on Beman this year, apparently as a result of a $500 fine Beman imposed for an in­cident at New Orleans in 1984. 
When O'Grady was quoted as saying he would not pay the fine, the money was withheld from the player's check from winnings in a subsequent tournament. 
O'Grady's response: "Deane Beman is a thief with a capital T .. . our problem is we happen to have a commissioner who runs the PGA tour as if it is his totalitarian, authoritarian system. It's his dic­tatorship and his regime, with ar­bitrary rules." 
At first, Beman disassociated himself from any action, referring the matter to PGA tour Tourna­ment Director Jack Tuthill for in­vestigation and recommendation. Tuthill served O'Grady with two notices of proposed intermediate penalties, which call for up to $1,000 in fines and three weeks suspension on each count. 
When O'Grady's remarks con­tinued to appear in print, Beman stepped in. Last week he proposed a major penalty against O'Grady, $5,000 to $10,000 in fines and up to six weeks suspension -in addition to the early actions. 
O'Grady has 30 days to respond. He's given the matter to his at­torney. 


--~ 

Williams leads Pacers over Knicks 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Herb Williams scored a career-high 40
) points in the Indiana Pacers' 112-92 win over the New York Knicks yesterday, but he had some help from the bench: Coach George Ir­vine. ''We were told he had 33 points so we left him in for a couple extra shots so he could get his career high," Irvine said. 
"I'm glad he did it," responded Williams, whose previous NBA high was 37 points on a couple of different occasions, including a 107-83 win over the Knicks Dec. 6. 
Associated Press 
The once-mighty Pacific-10 con­ference, championed through the years by UCLA in NCAA basket­ball tournament play, may be developing an inferiority complex. 
And it would seem justified. 

The conference ego was on the line last Friday when Arizona, the Pac-10 champions, took on Auburn in the first round of the NCAA West Regional at the Long Beach Arena. 
But the Wildcats couldn't keep up with Auburn in the final minutes and lost 73-63, giving the Pac-10 an 0-6 record in NCAA first-round games the past two years. 
Southern Cal, Arizona, Washington and Oregon State were the victims in 1985. Washington preceded Arizona in defeat this year, falling to Michigan State on Thursday night. 
"It's another slap at the Pac-10, 1­guess," Arizona Coach Lute Olson said after the Wildcats' loss. "I don't know. But it's not a slap at 
Irish 
continued from page 12 
Three team members played in­

jured yesterday. Steve Skupien was 
slightly ill with the flu, Mike 
Rogers had a pulled hamstring, and 
Ken Soos played on an injured 
ankle. 
Coach Gallo has been impressed 

with the offensive output of the 
Irish. 
''We've been hitting with more 

consistency," said Gallo. "With Ti­
m Hutson and Rich Vanthournout 
hitting over 10 RBis in the last four 
games, we're really coming 
through. We're playing longball 
and driving the ball." 
Coach Gallo attributed the heavy 

hitting to preseason workouts with 
wooden bats. 
"Aluminum bats give you a false 

sense of security," he said. "I hate 
aluminum bats. But when it comes 
to actually hitting in a game with 
them, it's like a difference between 
a knife and a gun." 
Although Tom Shields is doubt­

ful for the rest of the season, Coach 
Gallo likes what he is doing a great 
job," he said. "He gets tremendous 
power in his short compact swing. 
Nobody works harder than he does."
.•,.
IIMIIYIII 
THE "KAPlAN ADVANTAGE DOfSN 
T 1M TO ENO WITH YOUR AOMI5SI()Ij TO LAW SCHOOL' 
THE SAil£ SKILLED INSTRUCTION ;HAT PREPAAEO YOU FOR THE LSAT CAN GUIDE YOU THROUGH FIRST YEAR LAW' 
~mLAW SCHOOL 
A a.t.iw-!4. .....SEMINAR 


"You don't have nights like this very often. And it's a good feeling to accomplish something at the end the way people were starting to yell. I knew I had a lot of points but I don't count as I'm playing," the 6­ll forward said. 
Williams, who also grabbed 14 rebounds, had scored Indiana's last nine points in the first half and scored 21 of the Pacers' 25 points in one stint. 
He started his spurt with a layup that gave Indiana a 53-41 advan­tage with 1:41 remaining in the opening half. His two free throws gave Indiana a 60-43 halftime ad­vantage and the Knicks never drew 
Pac-10 embarrasses itself again 
----..... --........................._ ············--··---------------­
Long Island Bus 
..,
r 
Spring Break 
-... ...,J 
I 
'•JA_._._. '. -.·.·-·."rr'rr'rJ·.·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.·.·.·..·..·..·..·..•.•.. 


Your opportunity to make an impact on the vision care 
market is now. Put your skills to work for an industry 
leader. Our representatives will be on your campus Tuesday, April 8, in the Student Placement Center. Contact your 
Placement Center-immediately for consideration and inter­
view appointment. Ifyou can't make it, please send a letter 
of interest to: 
Personnel Departmomt 
Barnes-Htnd Inc. 
895 Kifer Road 
BARNES..LIIND 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 "T1 IK. 

closer than 15 again. 
''Williams should want to play against us all the time," said Knicks Coach Hubie Brown. "He had an easy time of it tonight. He was posting up and playing against our small forwards. His size and strength overwhelmed us. 
"Williams put together a real nice game. That man has a lot of talent. He ought to play like that all the time," Brown added. 
The Knicks, losing their eighth straight game and their 12th in 13, shot only 33 percent from the field in the first half and fell behind by as many as 25 in the third quarter when they shot just 31 percent. 
our guys; I'm proud of what we've done this year." 
The Pac-10 didn't have any better luck in the National Invitation Tournament this time around. 
UCLA, the NCAA champion 10 times under John Wooden in the 1960s and 70s and defending NIT champion, was upset 80-74 by Cal­Irvine of the Pacific Coast Athletic Association in a first-round NIT game Thursday night. 
"It wasn't like playing the UCLA of old," said Irvine forward Johnny Rogers, who scored 29 points in the victory at Pauley Pavilion, where the Bruins once were practically in­vincible. "But getting UCLA at their place is great for· a program that gets no respect." 
The same night, Cal lost an NIT game to Loyola Marymount of the West Coast Athletic Conference, giving the Pac-10 its third tourna­ment loss of the evening. 
"It was a bad night for the Pac­10," UCLA coach Walt Hazzard said afterward. 
The best sales people m~.·ke an impact on their profession. 
They set high goals and achieve them. Not because ofluck, but because of motivation, desire and intensity. Ifyou have the desire and self-motivation to be a winning sales person, consider Barnes-Hind Inc. 
As a Sales Representative for Barnes-Hind Inc., you can be part ofthe fastest growing, most dynamic segment ofthe health care market. And, you 'II be working with the nation's innovative leader in the manufacture ofcontact lenses, solu­tions and related vision care products. 
An Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer. 
']I['4[Jt~C3l~----------------------------------------------T-u-es_d_ay_,_M_a_rc_h_l_8_,1_9_86---p-a-ge_l_l
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side 
© 1986 Un1versal Press Synd•cate 




Campus 
*12:10 p.m.-Noontalk, "Mauricio Lasansky: A Retrospective Exhibition," Terri Douglas Larkin, Notre Dame, O'Shaughnessy West Gallery, Sponsored by the Art Dept. *3 p.m. -Colloquium, "On the Adequare Ex­tensions of Algebraic Number Fields," Prof. Leonid Stern, University of Texas, Austin, Room 326 Computer Center and Math Building, Sponsored by the Math Dept. *3:30 p.m. -Sminar, "The Finite Element Method and Groundwater Transport," Prof. William Gray, Notre Dame, Room 356 Fitz­patrick, Sponsored by the Dept. of Chemical Engineering *3:30p.m.-Computer Minicourse, MacWrite Wordprocessing: Room 104 Computing Center *4:15p.m.-Lecture, "Ben's Belly: The Work of Imitation in the Age of Mechanical· Reproduction," about Johnson's poem "In­viting a Friend to Supper," Prof. Joseph Loewenstein, Washington University, Library Lounge, Sponsored by the English Dept. *4:30p.m. -Seminar, "Bacterial Biodegrada­tion of PCB's: Implications and Biotechnical Applications," Dr. Gary Sayler, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by the Dept. of Biological Sciences 
The old "fake harpoon" gag. 
*4:30p.m. -Lecture, Prof. Charles Curtis, se­cond floor of the Computer Center and Math Building, Sponsored by Kenna Lectures in Mathematics *7 p.m. -Colloquium, "Theater and Society in Chile," Room 210 O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by the kellogg Institute *7 p.m. -Meeting for planning Third World Awareness Week, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by the Overseas Development Net­work *7 p.m. -Meeting, AIESEC, Room 220 Hayes-healy *7 p.m. -Movie, "Zoot Suit," Carroll hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by SMC Modern Language Dept., $1 *7:30 p.m. -Movie, "The Sin of Harold Did­dlebock," Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Tuesday Night Film Series 
•s p.m.-Recital, Joint Faculty Recital, Loret­ta Robinson and patrick Woliver, vocalists, assisted by the Chester String Quartet, Little Theatre, Moreau Hall, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Music Dept. 
*10 p.m.-penance Service, "A Call to Recon­ciliation," Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by University Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 


ACROSS 1 Hodgepodge 5 Sugar tree 
1 0 Stone paving 
block 14 Eight: prer. 15 Ship's deck 16 Tune 17 Hold back 18 Middle 
Easterner 19 Pieces 20 Spectacular 
affair 23 Holy persons: 
abbr. 24 Rent 25 Can. peninsula 28 Character or 
a culture 31-Ben Adhem 32 Movement 34 Haggard 
heroine 
37 Famous names in circus world 
40 Depot: abbr. 41 Gives back 
a loan 42 Addition 5 Watered silk 43 Brutes 6 "Mrs. -Goes 44 Live coal to Paris" 45 Eng. novelist 7 Scheme 48 She went to 8 Lengthy 
Siam 9 Saga 50 Where aerial-10 Broad swords 
ists perform 11 Heath 57 Wreaths 12 Disciple or 58 Gaseous Paul 
element 13 Demi-­59 Eye part 21 Somme summer 60 God of love 22 Actress 61 -branch Massey 
(peace emblem) 25 Chatters 62 Station 26 Blind as ­63 Sub -27 Rail 
(covertly) 28 Lab burners 64 Carrier 29 Considerable 65 Other 30 Fireplace 
shelves 

DOWN 32 Part of USA: 1 Emcee abbr. 2 Arthritis aid 33 Mantle 3 End or mob 34 Sloppy one 
or lob 35 Present 4 Domestic 36 Ogler 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame Roast Beef of Turkey Meat Lasagna Spinach Quiche Tuna Muffin 
Saint Mary's Baked meatloaf Turkey Salad Croissant Bean Tostada ham and Cheese Omelet 

38 One who abets 39 Callow 43 Tex. town 44 Twin of Chang 45 King 46 January in 
Madrid 47 So long, amigo 48 Over 49 Forty-­51 Easy gait 52 Aura 53 Revise 54 Ellipse 55 Sties 56 Benefit 

-
S~orts 

The Observer/File Photo 
A notre Dame baseball player connects with the ball in a game last year. The Irish improved their spring record to 6-2 with a sweep ofa home doubleheader from St. Joseph's yesterday. Terry Lynch has more on the twin bill at right. 
SMC fencers finish in fifth at NAIA national tourney 
petition takes a lot out of youBy GLORIA ELEUTERI because the entire day is spent fenc­Sports Writer ing." 
The teams ranked ahead of Saint 
The Saint Mary's fencing team Mary's were Temple, New York participated in NAIA Nationals University, Saint John's and Navy. this past weekend at Hunter Col-· The Owls went the entire day lege, N.Y., where it placed fifth out without losing a bout. of 13 teams, moving its record to The Belles tallied a record of 6-2­15-7. 4 against the competition. Barnett 
"The team fenced very well," said was proud that the .500 record sur­senior captain Mary Beth Proost. passed by the squad and feels confi­"We had 48 victories this weekend, dent the novices will take over and and it was the best we had ever do just as well next year. done in national competition." Barnett fenced at the number­
Becca Barnett, Shannon one position facing, perhaps, the Maughan and Proost all had good most experienced fencers of the showings for the weekend. Each tournament. did well against the Eastern com­"Saint Mary's has built a strong petition. program this year and I think our 
"The team fenced hard and did a record shows that," said Proost. good job," said Barnett. "The stif­"The future of the team looks good fer competition enabled us to work for the 12 novices who hung in to our potential." throughout the season. They are 
Junior Ann Raney, the only well prepared to fill our positions member to qualify for individual next year." play, established an 11-1 record. This tournament will conclude Raney was seeded at the 12th posi­the season for the Belles. Weeks tion. and the team were very pleased 
"I worked hard to achieve my with the results and hopes that next goal and it has paid off this year's squad will be able to con­weekend," said Raney. "The com-tinue the winning tradition. 
Tuesday, March 18, 1986-page 12 

Irish take two from St. Joseph's, as pitching holds Pttmas to one mn 
By TERRY LYNCH walked and stolen second base in way to the fence to track down the Sports Writer the first inning. Things got a little drive. 
The third inning began reminis­
more wild in the third inning, when 

Call it the luck of the Irish. cent of the first, as catcher Craig
Steve Skupien hit a leadoff 

The Irish baseball team rolled to homerun to give the llrish a 2-0 Pavlina crushed a shot over the left its sixth victory in a row yesterday lead. Rich Vanthournout singled, field fence, giving the Irish their with a doubleheader sweep of St. and then Rogers followed by first run of the game. Vanthour­Joseph's at a chilly Jake Klein Field reaching first on an e1rror. After nout and Rogers followed by by the scores of 4-1 and 8-0. Hutson grounded out, Pat O'Brien knocking in two more runs, and the 
With a number of players injured and John Loughran kno~ked in two Irish were up 3-0. on the Irish squad, and standout more runs with consecutive singles The ball started flying for the co-captain Tom Shields lost for an to boost the Irish lead to 4-0. Irish in the sixth. Soos and Tom indefinite amount of time, the Irish Guilfoile hit consecutive doubles to
After the bottom half of the 

were able to fend off a fresh Puma score the fourth run for the Irish.
third, it was left to be seen whether

team and complete their abitious Ray Szajko then hit a groundball
Irish starter Paul Mauk could

early season plans of playing eight up the middle that was stopped by 
preserve his shutout. While Mauk

games before spring break. shortstop Brian Deno, but Deno
struggled throughout th(: game with 

Once again it was the hot bats of rushed the throw to first and skip­
control problems, he was able to

the Irish that powered the team to ped by first basemen Dale Ebeling. 
keep the Pumas from crossing

both wins. Both Steve Skupien and Guilefoile scored on the errant
home plate until the sixth inning,

Craig Pavlina homered yesterday throw, and it was 5-0 Irish.
when a walk, a stolen base and an

afternoon despite the cold and win­Brad Connor then came in to
RBI single spoiled Mauk's shutout

dy conditions, and the Irish pound­replace starter Mike Miller for St.
bid. Mauk gave up only Ifour hits.

ed out 17 hits in all. Overall, the Joseph's, but it was to no avail as Irish offensive attack has managed Freshman Erik Mads,en came in Steve Skupien singled in Szajko for to crank out 70 runs in eight games. to shut down the Pumas in the a n6-0 lead. A Van thournot single "Being 6-2 is a good feeling, no seventh inning. Mauk W<ent to a 1-0 and a Rogers sacrifice ended the 
doubt about it," said Irish coach with the win, and the Pumas' Dave scoring for the Irish, as they took Larry Gallo after the twinbill. "I Mann was tagged with the loss. their 8-0 lead into the top of the know how winning is felt as a The Irish offense cranked up a seventh. 
player and I know how it feels as a notch in the second game of the Mike Harmon and Mike Passilla manager. We're really playing well doubleheader with eight runs, but combined on the six-hit shutout for now, and I like the attitudes on the not until after the defense turned in the Irish. Harmon went six innings team. They never feel that they're some impressive plays as well. and settled into an easy groove out of a game." Centerfielder Ken Soos made an ex­after the Pumas sent some well-hit 
In the opener, the Irish jumped cellent play in the second inning on balls into the outfield early. on top quickly when Tim Hutson a ball off the bat of St. Joseph's 
see IRISH, page 10singled in Scott Rogers, who had John Stitz, going full speed all the 

SMC track and fiel<i opens season 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE Among the team members who In the one-mile relay the ~am of Sports Writer placed at the meet was junior Cass Duke, Gill, Kennedy and Rice cap­Pearl, who finished second in the tured fourth place, while the team 
The Saint Mary's track and field 50-yard hurdles. Freshman Theresa of Bailey, Luneen, Morris and team opened its season Saturday Rice and Patty Morris came in Pearl came in sixth place. with a fourth-place finish at the fourth place in the 880-yard race 
Three Saint Mary's teamSpring Arbor Indoor Invitational and the one-mile run, respectively. 

members placed in the field eventsin Spring Arbor, Mich. In the 1 ,000-yard race, sophomore competition. Gill and BiancoThe Belles trailed Spring Arbor, Cathy Kennedy placed sixth, while received third and fourth places,Alma and Hope colleges at the Missy Bailey and Kelly O'Brien, respectively, in the triple jump, and meet but placed ahead of Goshen both freshmen, finished in fifth freshman Karen Krajcir came inand Adrian colleges. and sixth places, respectively, in the sixth place in the high jump. 

The fourth-place finish was a 300-yard run. 
Kerich noted that although thegood one, according to head coach Belles' season has started off suc­Jean Kerich, who said Saint Mary's The Saint Mary's rday teams cessfully, the team needs to con­was up against some strong com­fared well in the four-lap and one­tinue working to remain com­petition. mile races. The team of Pearl, Rice, petitive.

"I think we did very well," she sophomore Stephanie Duke and 
said. "Just about every team there senior Mary Luneen took fifth in "We're going to make sure the 
had a rather extensive indoor the four-lap rel~y, while the team girls practice over spring break," 
season. This was our first indoor of Bailey, O'Brien, junior Anne she said. "We don't want any one of 
meet, so I was pleased with the Bianco and freshman Lora Gill them to lose what she already has 
results." placed sixth in the same ~~vent. attained." 
Volleyball Club gains revenge over Calvin 
Revenge was the word for the Volleyball Club as it par­ticipated in several matches last week. On Monday the Irish avenged an earlier loss by beating Calvin College, 15-7,16-14,6-15, 10-15, 15-9. The grudge factor was also present as the team took on Wisconsin in Madison. The Irish seemed prepared to pay back the Badgers, taking the first game 15-13. But the roof caved in as the team lost the next three games, 2-15,8-15,6-15. 
"We won the first game, and the momentum was going our way," said Head Coach Bill Anderson. "But I put in a new server the second game. If that's what caused the momentum swing, then I'll take responsibility. 
"We also broke down in the middle. They ran a middle attack, and we weren't able to block." 
The loss cost the club the regular season championship in the club division of the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association. But while the Irish may have lost the battle, they still have a chance to win the war as the MIV A postseason tournament is coming up in April. 
The Irish also took on the ninth-ranked Cardinals of Ball State in a home match Wednesday. Despite playing extremely well, they dropped the shortened match, 15-8 10-15, 10-15. 
"We just broke down in spurts," noted Anderson. "We 
Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 


allowed them to go on runs of six and seven points at a time." 
Toniight the team travels to West Lafayette to take on Purdue, then will return home to play Western Michigan on Wednesday. Then, after break, the team will have one more match against 12th-ranked IUPU-Fort Wayne. There is a chance this game will be moved from the Pit to the main arena of the ACC in the hope of breaking the MIV A regular season attendance record. Look for details of this AprilS contest after break. 
• 

The Gymnastics Club's men's team wrapped up its 
season over the weekend in a triangular meet against Eastern Michigan and Lacrosse (Wis.). 
The final score shows the Irish edgingLacrosse by two points, whil.e scoring about half as many points as Eastern Michigan. And in the all-around competition, Matt Sennetlt of Notre Dame placed second to Mike Sher­man of Eastern Michigan by 21 points. 
But before you jump to conclusions, it should be noted that this meet was hosted by Eastern Michigan, an ex­perienced varsity squad, to help the Notre Dame and Lacrosse teams gain experience against varsity competi­tion. 
"Eastern Michigan holds this meet basically just to help out the club teams," said Club President Jim Ciesil. "Actually \Ye did very well in this meet. It's just the dif­ference between the varsity and the club teams." 
Ciesil again was the top Irish performer in the floor ex­ercise, placing sixth with an 8.3. He also tied with Sennett for fifth in the parallel bars, as both scored a 5.4 Rob Lee also did well., scoring an 8.05 in the vault. 
The club ~~ill now hold practices three times a week for the underclassmen to work on new maneuvers for next season. 


