
-
Resident assistants -page 7 

.-----------------------------------------~--~------~--------­

Shuttle debris collected, but NASA still baffled 
and will be available for the analysis 
of the tragedy. 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -The "Obviously the ET temps would Coast Guard pulled 600 pounds of be very nice to have right now, but metal and tiles from Challenger out operationally we have no use for it of the Atlantic Ocean yesterday, and so we don't display it (during experts impounded every bit ofdata launch)" he said. "We have a limited for clues to the death of seven number of operators and you want people in the world's worst· space them to look at a limited amount of disaster. data." 
NASA said the five men and two The crew apparently had no war­women aboard the 100-ton shuttle ning. probably had no warning of the im­"We have no indication that the pending explosion. The debris col­commander had any sense of anyth­lected by yesterday afternoon did ing wrong," said William Graham, not include any clothing or personal acting administrator of NASA. "The effects of the astronauts. spacecraft was traveling at more 
A cone-shaped object, possibly than twice the speed of sound at from the nose ofone of the shuttle's 47,000 feet, which is at the boun­solid rocket boosters, was spotted, dary ofthe stratosphere where there but it was too big to put aboard the are physical changes such as optical small cutter U.S. dallas. A buoy and visual phenomena and shock tender was sent to the area. waves.'' 
The largest piece of debris found Graham said the ship's two solid­after a full day of searching was 1'5 rocket boosters, which could be fc:-ct by I '5 feet. Other pieces were 12 seen heading away from the fireball feet long and 10 feet long. Most were and forming a huge Y-shaped trail in of aluminum, some containing the sky, were deliberately destroyed piping, others covered with tiles. by the range safety officer, who gave 
More helicopters would be used a computer command that triggered today to see if a large object could be explosives stored aboard the rock­seen in shallow areas. Sonar equip­ets. ment was to be added later. "There was an indication one of 
Experts were studying computer the solids was heading for a pop­readouts that timed events at one­ulated area and he took the correct thousandths of a second, hoping to action," Graham said. After a normal learn ifthe problem could have been launch, the boosters drop off the a rupture of the shuttle's huge exter­shuttle fuel tank, parachute into the nal tank. Much speculation has ocean, and are recovered by waiting focused on the tank as the source of ships. the explosion. Their condition, had they been in­
Flight director Jay Greene said tact, might have helped solve the in-data from the tank is not read in Mis­
See SHUTTLE, page 4
sion Control, but that it is recorded 

Reagan vows support for space exploration 
Aaaodated PreM Asked to describe his feelings in 
the aftermath of the disaster, the 

WASHINGTON President president said, "They are still much Reagan, vowing to press on with as they were yesterday," although he space exploration, today added, "I think all of us have kind of telephoned relatives of the "seven escaped the numbness ofshock that heroes" who died in the Challenger we all felt." shuttle explosion. White House spokesman Larry 

Speakes said Vice President George Bush, reporting to the president today on his visit to Cape Canaveral after the explosion, relayed to Reagan the request ofJune Scobee, wife of shuttle pilot Francis Scobee, to "please do not let this stop the shuttle program." 
"The president will be placing phone calls through the day to families of those who died in the shuttle accident," Speakes said. 
Speakes said that as of this mor­ning the government had received messages of condolence from 19 foreign governments, including the Soviet Union, as well as officials of the United Nations and North Atlan­tic Treaty Organization. 
A telegram in behalfof Pope John
Ronald Reagan ... "We mourn seven heroes" 

Paul II was sent to the Vatican envoy in Washington by Cardinal Agostino He plans to attend any memorial Casaroll, the No. 2 man at the service for the victims, the White Vatican, with a request to commun­House said. icate to the president "the Holy Fat· 
"Ufe hall to go on and so does the her's deep sorrow." space program," Reagan told reporters In the Oval Office after an­Earlier, the president said, "We nouncing appointment of Richard mourn seven heroes.... We mourn Lyng as agriculture secretary. their loss as a nation together." 

rlliill~ 
-··­
A security guard at the johnson Space Center in Houston Tues­day lowers the flag in front ofthe Administration Building to half staff The Space Shuttle Challenger exploded after liftofffrom the Kennedy Space Center with a crew ofseven. Stories at left. 



Special Olympics seeking support 
By MICHAEL DUNCAN 
News Staff 
Notre Dame basketball players were not the only ones who enjoyed cheers and applause from fans at last Monday's basketball game against Hofstra. 
Playing at half-time, two Special Olympian teams, the first of many spons programs for the mentally­handicapped sponsored by the St. Joseph County Special Olympics, also entenained the crowd. 
These Special · Olympic programs are scheduled to last through the end ofMarch. 
To finance these events, the or· ganization has announced a major fund-raising campaign in which they hope to make S55,000 in donations .to provide for the ap· proximately 550 athletes. 
Susan Coffman, an area coor­dinator for the Special Olympics, said "the resources we obtain will enable us to maintain our current programs, which include training sessions and competitions on a lo­cal, area and state level." 
Coffman also stressed that all money for these programs must come from private. sources such as "businesses, civic groups, school organizations, and individuals," be· cause they receive no funds from any other organizations, including the United Way. 
Notre Dame's Special Olympic Commissioner Erik Hickey said he wants Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to become in-

Saint Mary's EXCEL fund nearing goal of $25 million 
ANN KALTENBACH 
Copy Editor 
With S 3 mlllion yet to raise by the 
end of the fiscal year, EXCEL, the 
fund for Saint Mary's, offers every in· 
dication ofsuccess, according to Be­
dey Drury, director ofdevelopment. 
"This is a major undenaking and 
accomplishment for Saint Mary's,". 
said Drury. 
EXCEL, which began inJune 1980 
under the direction of national 
chairman Mary Morris Leighton, has 
set its goal at S2'5 million. Thus far, 
S22 mlllion has been raised and the 
final S3 million is expected to be 
reached by May 31, she said. 
Of the S25 mlllion, according to 
Drury, S7 million has been car· 
marked for the endowment. "The 
Bruno Schlesinger chair will be es· 
tabllshed in humanistic studies," 
said Drury, explaining the long-term 
plans for the endowment. 
The endowment fund also is being 
used to establish 25 scholarships, 
she said. 
The cost ofoperating Saint Mary's 
budget will be offset by S4 million of 
the planned S25-milllon EXCEL 
fund, said Drury. 
The remaining SI4 million was 
originally earmarked for construe· 
tion, she said, but the actual amount 
is· uncertain because contractors 
may overbid or underbid the figure. 
Contributions to the fund have 
originated from several sources, ac­
cording to Drury. 
The Institutional Development 
Counsel/Mail Program, in which 
College alumnae and friends receive 
letters requesting contributions, is 
targeted toward people who give 
under S500, according to Drury. 
This program asks for three year 
pledges. "So Saint Mary's becomes a 
constant part oftheir philanthropy," 
she said. 
Other sources arc the National 
Endowment for the Humanities 
Challenge grant, the Ully Challenge 
grant, the Madaleva Society, the an­
nual Fund Mail Program and EXCEL 
See EXCEL, page 6 
volved in the organization in con­junction with the fund-raising campaign. 
Hickey said he hopes to have "a representative from each dorm take the responsibility of raising money within their own dorms," and perhaps have a competition among other dorms for the most money earned. 
The St. Joseph County Special Olympics has been providing progtams for special athletes for 15 years . 
During this time "we have seen them make great strides both physically and emotionally," said Coffman. 
Also planned in the future is the International Summer Olympics to be held on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary campuses in 1987. 

The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1986-page 2 

Of Interest 
Tom Dooley Awareness Week continues 
with a lecture by Teresa Gallagher, friend and co-worker ofDooley. Gallagher will speak tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. Also, a slide presentation on Dooley's life and work will be presented at the CSC today beginning at 4. All are invited to attend. -The Obser­ver 
Recruiter and coordinator ofspecial programs Kathy Miller, ofGantos, Inc., will speak tonight at 6:30 in the Haggar College Center Parlor as part of the "Women in the Workplace" lecture series. The talk is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Career Coun­seling and Development Center. -The Observer 

To send condolences to the families of the seven astronauts who perished in the explosion of the Challenger space shuttle can do so by sending them to the space agency's headquarters, NASA officials said yesterday. The address: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Administrator's Office, Was­hington D.C., 20546. -AP 
Nothing ventured, nothing gained. The 
Society for Entrepreneurship and New Ventures will have its first meeting ofthe semester today at 6 p.m. in room 304 Haggar College Center. All interested students are welcome. -The Observer 
Shelter for the Homeless will be conducting a training session tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. Sign­ups for this semester will follow the meeting. -The Observer 
Junior Class skitrip. A balance of $50 is due tonight from 6 to 8 in the Junior Class office. -The Observer 
The annual change ofcommand of the Battalion of Midshipmen of the Naval ROTC Unit at Notre Dame will be con­ducted at 4:30 today in Stepan Center. Midshipman First Class Mic­hael Leary, the outgoing battalion commander, is a Notre Dame senior from Philadelphia, majoring in the Program ofliberal Studies. The new battalion commander is Midshipman Captain John Abitabilo, a Notre Dame junior majoring in government and history. 
-The Observer 
Juniors interested in singing for Junior Parents' Weekend mass are asked to contact Tom at 2308 or lisa at 2665 by noon tomorrow -The Observer 
Alumni Board-Student Reception. Is 
there life after Notre Dame? What awaits.an ND graduate in the real world? Come discuss "life after Notre Dame" with Alumni Associa­tion members at the Alumni Board-Student Reception being held tonight at 9 in the rotunda in the Administration Building. Refresh­ments will be served. -The Observer 
Special Olympics volunteers will have a 
meeting tonight at 7 in the LaFortune little Theater. Bring your questions, suggestions and interested friends. Refreshments will be served. Call Erik Hickey at 283-1623 for more information. -The Ob­server 
A Marketing Club meeting will be held tonight 
at 7 in room 122 ofHayes-Healy. Future agenda will be discussed and hot chocolate and donuts will be served. A special short film will be shown on "The Interviewers Perception of an Interview." All mem­bers are urged to attend. -The Observer 


Weather 
Brighten your day, as it will be partly sunny with a high of25 today. Cloudy with a chance of light snow tonight. Low 15. Mostly cloudy tomorrow with a high near 32.-AP 



Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowlrr Design Assistant ............... Mdissa Warnkr Typesetters............. Mary l!llrn Harrington 
Suzannr Hammrr News Editor ...................... Mark Pankowski 
Copy Editor .......................Ann Kaltrnbach 
Sports Copy Editor .......... Mllre Szymanski 
Viewpoint Copy Editor ......Jullr Colllngr 
Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown 
Sports Spectal Layout ... VIewpoint Copy 
Editor.......................................Julie Collin11r Fean•res Copy baitor...... ~rtle Wlmmrr Features Layout..................... Carol Brown ND Day Editor ...................Sharon Emmlte SMC Day Editor...................... Pricilla ~le Ad Design.................................. Fred Ndson 
Klmbrrly Brown Photographer..................... Hannes Hacker 

The Obooerver (liSPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obse~r is.published by the studentsofthr l!nivrrsity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Collrge. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per year (flO prr semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All rrproduction rights are 

r~sr~fll. 


Only students can blow off classes, not 'horrendous' snow storms 
It happens every January. 
Meteorologists repon high temperatures that couldn't possibly be considered "high" by any rational person south ofJuneau. I awaken to the grinding sound ofsnowplows scraping concrete and hope that Dick Ad­dis' weather word has proved prophetic and that condi­tions really are "horrendous." Of course, this being South Bend, they are. Visions of"classes cancelled" bul­letins dance in my head. 
Ofcourse, this being Notre Dame, they aren't. 
According to the Provost's Office, which makes the decision to cancel classes in consultation with Saint Mary's, classes haven't been cancelled since 1966, when a blizzard forced the University to close for one day. More recently, during the blizzard of1977, the Uni­versity was shut down for business for a day. 
"We didn't close for classes--we shut the University down for business. I don't recall ever closing for classes 
in  my  tenure,"  said  University  Provost  Timothy  
O'Meara.  He  added  that  
"Generally  speaking,  the  

conditions are such that we 


reckless abandon with which the groundskeepers pursue their snow-clearing mission. I'm well ac­quainted with the acute fear that strikes when the ominous whirr of a snow-shovel is detected approach­ing from behind at 80 miles per hour, leaving no al­ternative but to accept cenain death under the tire treads or to hurl one's body headfirst into the nearest snowbank and hope to be found sometime around An 
Tostal.  
According to  Head Groundskeeper Bill Thistleth­ 
waite, a mere 19-man snow  
removal  force  armed with  
four trucks, four jeeps, two  



expect the professors to be tractors, and three here. Ifit is a particular situa­snowblowers, is responsible tion, obviously they are to for instilling this fear ... and use their own discretion" as for keeping the campus to whether or not to attempt paths passable. the drive to campus. 
"Also, due to the fact that "So far this year we've this is primarily a residential been able to handle everyth­campus where the over­ing ourselves," Thistleth­whelming majority of stu­waite said. "If it gets real dents live on campus, their heavy --generally meaning attendance of the classes over 14 inches or so--we'll shouldn't be a problem. And call in outside contractors it is the students, more often with heavy equipment to get than not, that are most con­the job done. This year that cerned with the cancella­hasn't been necessary yet." 
The c.ha"ce of scnool beinq dosed
tion. Last year, most of the Even the type of blizzard
due to .snnw (.OO'Iaifion s...
professors were able to make it in," O'Meara said. 
Even though it would appear from this history that class cancellation at Notre Dame is a very slim pos­sibility, the Provost's Office does not arbitrarily issue an edict from the dome ordering that they be held. O'Meara says he considers such factors as weather predictions, the current conditions at the time the deci­sion is made, and estimations from the Office ofStudent Affairs and the maintenance departments as to what condition the campus will be in at the time classes are scheduled to start. 
So perhaps my hope ofbeing snowbound is foiled not by the Provost's Office, as I had originally thought, but by the groundskeepers. 
If this is the case --if classes will only be cancelled if the omnipresent snowplows cease to operate --then I think we're in for a long and busy, albeit snowy, winter. 
After all, anyone who has strolled the campus when even a few flakes are lillling, knows the zealousness and 

Learn the facts about cancer. 
And make not knowing the risks, one less risk. 
How you live may save your life. 
OVERSEAS VIOEO 
TM>f'-, CONVfRTfnTO M~l ~<I( AN ':;TAr,j()ARO ' Vi({ V(I~<..,A RHOA()(_A<.;,l (lllA\llY {)IrAN! ITY (ll'-\qllJN"'"\ Ai/Ail Alii E_ 1111 ,>;'llVOLT<., VIOIO'.. X.!VC,(•r">t(liJNTED 
APPLE AUDIO LABS 74·18, 37th AVE .. JACKSON HTS ..N.Y.113n CALL 24 HAS. 718 · 507· 5800 
10-9 DAILY 11-7 Sunday 2n-8338 
itselfdetermines whether or not classes will be cancelled, as Physical Plant Director Don Dedrick noted. 
"Every snow is different and it depends on the in­dividual storm, the day it occurs, the time it ends, the wind velocity, and the depth ofsnow," Dedrick said. "If you have a hard-type blizzard situation with high winds and blowing snow ... then the men really can't do much. They exhaust themselves and their equipment. The snow we've had so far this year has ended around mindnight or 1 a.m., which gives us time to get the men out and the campus in shape by morning," he added. 
Perhaps if these plows were not so effective, and the wind velocity was at the perfect level throughout every snowstorm, and the snow began falling at 4 a.m. instead of 11 p.m., and the administration wasn't so dedicated to academics, and ... well, then classes would be can­celled. 
But don't count on it. 
corner of Rd Ill St. Rd 23 

USED MUSIC 

Buy Sell Trade $ A huge selection of 
vn. ..IA.'I::>'ol XLJI9Q

guaranteed used Lps 
orTDKSAGO

cassettes & compact discs 6for $1499 

OVERSTOCK BLOW-OUT BINS 
100's of hot new albums & many 
Michiana's finest Compact Disc selection at the lowest prices 

·----­ 
1°0 off Any non-sale Album, cassette  I  2°0 offany non-sale Compact Disc  

classics only *See Coupon•
-.----1 CC.)UPON~ 
The Observer Thursday, january 30, 1986-page 3 

Mexican air crash kills 18 passengers, 3 crew 
Los Mochis, Mexico An AeroCalifornia airliner DC-3 carry­ing 21 ~ople crashed yesterday on a hill ncar the fog-covered airport of this Pacific port, and an airline spokeswoman said all aboard were killed. 
"There were no survivors," said Mara Castellon, spokeswoman for the airline's main office in La Paz on the Baja California peninsula. She said the two-engine propcllor plane was flying from Ciudad Constitucion on Baja California to Los Moe his, car­rying 18 passengers and three crew members. 
Ernesto Zavala Valdes, the spokes­man for AeroCalifornia in Los Mochis, said all aboard were Mexican citizens. He said the plane crashed because "of lack of visibility." 
Associated Press reporter Cam Rossie, who was flying above the Los Mochis airport in a six-seater Cessna at the time of the crash at ap­proximately 10:1 '5 a.m. EST, saw the accident. 

"It l>urst into flame and from the air you could see the tail section was 
separated  and  it  looked  like  the  
plane  was  totally destroyed,"  she  
said in a telephone interview.  

"We were approaching, our pilot said we were not going to land in Los Mochis because of fog and the air­port was closed. Then he changed his mind and said we would go ahead and go to Los Mochis and see what it looks like," Rossie said. 
"We were in the air and this DC-3 was in the air. He said we'll wait and see if it lands, see how it does. 
"It (the AeroCallfornia plane) made an attempt at the landing strip, partially covered with fog. We were circling the hill by the airstrip, and the DC-3 plane couldn't land on its first attempt and so it came back around and it started to climb over the hill. Its wing went down and it crashed on the side ofthe hill." 
A man answering the telephone at the AeroCalifornia office in Los Mochis said there were 18 pas­sengers and three crew members aboard. 

APPhoco

Bid all you can bid. 
james Atkinson ofBowie, Md., looks at security some originally purchased for the military and cabinets with combination locks outside an Anny some abandoned on military property, are auc­warehouse in Fort Belvoir recently. Surplus wares, tioned to the public. 

SMC board plans elections, events 
By MARILYN BENCHIK 
StaffReporter 
Regardless of the depressing ef. feet South Bend winters might have, the Saint Mary's Programming Board is planning to liven up the spirit of the season. 
Elections for student body offices will be held on Feb. 12. Students wis­hing to run for these positions were 

For years, people have enjoyed Pizza Hut® Pan Pizza in our restaurants. But now you can get that same thick, delicious pizza delivered right to your front door. 
Or get our Thin 'N Crisplpizza delivered, if you prefer. 
Just call the special Pizza Hut® Delivery number you see here. We'll smother your pizza with mozzarella and your favorite toppings. Bake it up and bring it straight to your door, hot and fresh. 
So go ahead. Have a Pizza Hut®pizza for dinner. And make yourself at home. Delivery Hours: Mon.-Thurs., 4:00pm 
~ 
12 midnight. Fri., 4:00pm-1:00am. Sat., 11:00 am-1:00am. Sun., 11:00 am -12:00 ~~ midnight. Limited delivery area. ~ut 
Pizza HutDelivery



232-2499 
©1986 Pizza Hut, Inc. 
to attend a mandatory meeting last Sunday or Monday. 
The Lil' Sister's Weekend is scheduled for the weekend ofMarch 7,8 and 9. The Hudson's Fashion Show was cancelled, but the board is tentatively planning another one with a different local department store, said Student Body Vice Presi­dentJeanne Heller. 
"Most ofthe sophomores who I've talked to have shown a definite in­terest m this weekend," said Sop­
homore  Class  Vice  President  
Colleen Dowd.  
Entertainment  Commissioner  

Trudee Landsfield discussed the 

Keenan Review party to be held on Feb. 7 from 11 p.m. to 1 a.m. in the Haggar College Center. Non­acohollc beverages such as daiquiris will be served. 
Balloons will be donated to Friday's "Toast to the New Year" Party by the freshman class while members of the sophomore class have volunteered to clean up after the fcstivites. 
According to Heller, applications 

for  freshman  orientation  will  be  
available  Monday  for  those  in­ 
terested.  



. 
Have a nose for news? 

I 

If you do, The Observer news department needs you. There will be a meet­
ing for new reporters on 
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. 
in Room 118 Nieuwland 
Hall. Please attend if you 
are interested in being an 
Observer news reporter 
this semester. 

I 

_IheDhsenu=-"­

L~~.................-..-......~~.._._.............._..~ 
HDW WDULD YDU LIKE----...... 

ISZD.DD?I 

Design 
the IJat loto for the Student Aetlvltla Board's new stores: 
Tieket Stull\_and-::,_ \ The Cellf!r 
Entries must be in Ink on 81f2 x 11 oaper. Submit them to the Ticket Stub (basement of Lafortune) by February 7th. Include your name, address, and telephone number. 


The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1986-page 4 



Counselors help students, adults cope with loss of famous teacher 

Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. -Adults and children in the city where Christa McAuliffe taught school cried openly yesterday as they con­fronted their anger, sadness and disbelief over the death of their colleague and teacher. 
"The teachers seem to be more upset than the students," saidJohn Reinhardt, coordinator of school psychology and guidance programs for the Concord school district. 
"They are closer to her, her col­leagues and personal friends. The kids for the most part seem to be handling it well." 
Twenty-five psychologists, guidance counselors and therapists went into the public schools to help the 4,500 students deal with their griefover the death 
ofthe hometown space teacher. 
Classes were canceled at the 
high school where McAuliffe 
taught, but teachers and coun­
selors were available, if students 
wanted to come in and talk. 
Reinhardt said that other school 
districts across the nation might be 
doing the same thing, depending 
on their students' reaction to 
seeing the explosion which killed 
McAuliffe and six astronauts. 
"It affects every child in the country that saw it," said Rein­hardt. "Christa was dynamic, down to earth. She spoke in a language children could understand. NASA public relations did a tremendous job in publicizing the event, em­phasizing the educational benefits. This flight was part of the students' curriculum." 
Many students expressed sym­

pathy for McAuliffe's family includ­ing her two children, Scott, 9, and Caroline, 6. 
Reinhardt said children at the Kimball Elementary School, where Scott is a classmate, asked the counselors for every bit of in­formation they could get: why did this happen? what caused the acci­dent? 
Clint Cogswell, the principal at Kimball who had been in Cape Canaveral to witness the launch, spoke to all of the classes, describ­ing everything that happened. 
Eighteen children in Scott's third grade class who also had flown to Cape Canaveral to watch the launch were given the day off yesterday because they returned home so late Tuesday night. 
"They feel the event is almost like a dream," said Reinhardt. 

Shuttle 
continuedfrom page 1 
credible jigsaw puzzle confronting the space agency. 
The officials reiterated that there will be no more shuttle flights until investigating teams have made their report and corrective actions are taken. 
"I want to assure you, as others have, including the president of the United States, that this loss will not stop us as Americans from exploring the frontiers ofscience and the fron­tiers ofspace," said Graham. 
"The space shuttle is our principal 
space transportatin system," he said. 
"It will remain our principal space 
transportation system for the 
foreseeable future." 
Moore said an interim investigat­ing board is meeting almost con­tinually and forming teams to investigate different aspects of the accident. A formal board, including representatives of the space in­dustry, the Air Force and other ex­perts, will be convened later. 
"Our job is to make sure we don't miss any evidence and to preserve it in as pristine a shape as possible," he said, adding that once the problem is corrected, "We intend to move ahead with the space program." 
Mission Control, with all its sop­histicated technology, had no war­ning of the impending explosion, said Greene, who was directing Challenger's climb to space. 
"We train awfully hard for these flights and we train under every scenario you can possibly imagine," he said. "There was nothing anyone could have done for this one. It just stopped." 
He described the mood in the 
Exp ion During 



-'V,.J. 
Compare "i; 

our prices! 

ironwood liauor 
1 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
12191272-7144 







~~M!CH!GAN 
:..______Thefeeling is forever.­
control room as "extremely profes­sional under the circumstances, very somber, there was not much said." 
When computer screens showed no more data was coming in, he said, engineers watched the views from television cameras. 
"We were hoping something bet­ter would come out of it," he said. After a while, we resumed gathering data, put it all up and called it a day." 
Speculation focused on an ominous bright flash that was visible at the base ofthe fuel tank before the explosion, but shuttle directorJesse Moore said he wanted to discourage that. 
"You are asking me to lay out causes." he said. "I'm not prepared to do that." 
NASA scheduled a memorial service at the Johnson Space Center in Houston tomorrow and said Presi­dent and Mrs. Reagan will attend. 
In Palm Bay, a community south ofthe space center, plans were made to name a school after Christa McAuliffe of Concord, N.H., who was aboard the shuttle as the first "common citizen" to fly in space. She had planned to teach two les­sons from space to schoolchildren all across the country. 

Killed along with McAuliffe were commander Francis Scobee, 46; pilot Michael Smith, 40; Judith Res­nik, 36; Ronald McNair, 35; Ellison Onizuka, 39, and GregoryJarvis, 41. 
An investigation team held its first meeting to start the long inquiry into why the $1.2 billion shuttle, ap­pearing to be on a perfect course, suddenly exploded 7 4 seconds after liftoff Tuesday, raining fiery debris into the Atlantic Ocean. 
Lt. John Philbin, commander of the Coast Guard cutter Point Roberts, brought back the first load of debris. He said there was 600 pounds of it, much of it in small pieces. 
"Most of what we found was bulkhead-type material, aluminum with insulation attached to it," he said. "There were a couple of charred pieces and we did bring in some small cylinder-type tanks this morning." 
The Point Roberts was the first military ship on the scene. He said his crew watched the debris coming down and got the location from a tug in the area. 
The space agency impounded every scrap of paper, film and data connected with the launch and pleaded with souvenir hunters to turn in anything they find on the beaches in this central Florida area. 
"We need every piece of that be­cause we don't know where the clue might be," said Richard Smith, the director of the Kennedy Space Center. 
Eight ships, including four Coast Guard cutters, and nine airplanes searched the 50-by-1 00-mile rec­tangle where Challenger's wreckage fell. 

-----------~---­

r---------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, january 30, 1986-page 5 

Organizations counting on shuttle face uncertainties after catastrophe 


Challenger disaster revives debate 
AS80Ciated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston -Com­mercial and scientific organizations that counted on the space shuttle to deliver their satellites face new un­certainties after the catastrophic loss of Challenger and the indefinite suspension ofall shuttle flights. 
"The U.S. space program has been planned for many years on the as­sumption that the shuttle would be the launch vehicle ofchoice," noted Marvin Goldberger, president of California Institute of Technology which operates the famed jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
JPL is managing two major science probes, the Ulysses and the Galileo, which are scheduled for 


AS80Ciated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston -The disaster of space shuttle Challenger, in contrast to the stunning success of Voyager's fly-by of the planet lTranus, will sharpen the argument that the U.S. should abandon manaed missions and instead send 

The Space Shuttle Challenger's solid-fuel boosters continue on 
robots to explore the universe,

after the explosion ofthe shuttle and its liquid-fuel boosters less 
scientists said yesterday. 

than two minutesafter launch Tuesday. This photo wasmadefrom 
l:nmanned space travel costs far

Daytona Beach, Fla., some 50 milesfrom the launch site. Stories at 
less than manned missions and can

right. 
probe much deeper in space with no 



I 

launch on separate missions this May. 
NASA acting administrator Wil­liam Graham said the shuttle will not fly again until investigators know what caused Challenger to blow up and measures have been taken "to make sure it doesn't happen again." 
The most immediate loss of the Challenger disaster is to studies of Halley's Comet. 
Challenger was carryinga satellite designed to take unprecedented photos and instrument readings on the comet. A mission scheduled for March also was to conduct a HaJJey study, but that now, too, is lost. 
There won't be another chance for 76 years. A delay in the launch of Ulysses and Galileo will push their missions 
risk to humans. Yet it remains the poor stepchild to the high-flying manned space program, experts said. 
It's a debate that has raged in the scientific community since the first days ofexploring the heavens. 
"Nobody wants to say 'I told you so' the day after seven people have died," said Gordon Pettengill, a planetary astronomy professor at the Massachusetts Institute ofTech­nology. "I wouldn't be surprised if this did cause some re-examination. It would be strange to me if it didn't." 
While experts are hesitant to revive the debate so soon after Tues­day's tragedy in which the ·seven crewmembers were killed, con­cerns are surfacing over the impact the Challenger accident will have on unmanned projects. 
"I don't want to sound callous but one of the things we always worry about in a tragedy like yesterday is 
21st Birthday 
..gQowe~tg ~n aQQ occa~ion~~, 
Comein and Browse 327 Lincolnway 232-3354 
back into 1987 at the earliest. 
"If we miss the May launch dates for the satellites, then we would have to wait for 13 months for anot­her launch opportunity," said a JPL spokeswoman. 
Both Ulysses and Galileo are to be launched toward the planet jupiter. Ulysses is to use jupiter's gravita­tional boost to soar over the top of the sun and become the first known object to orbit the solar poles. Galileo is to be sent to a permanent orbit of jupiter for a concentrated study of that massive planet and its moons. 
The delay ofshuttle launches may erode the profit piciUre of some commercial satellite users and affect NASA's international competition with other launch services. 
the money that it's going to take to correct (the problem) is likely to come out of the hide of unmanned (projects)," said John Freeman, a Rice University space physicist. 
"The thing that strikes me is that this happened four days after the successful Voyager rendezvous with Uranus, a planet we've never even had a photograph of," said Dr. Ed­ward Ney, a University of Minnesota professor of physics and astronomy and a shuttle critic. 
Data recently radioed back by Voyager 2 have given scientists new photographs of the five major moons of Uranus. The moon Miranda emerged as an icy world unlike any other ever seen in the solar system. 
In a recent issue of Scientific American magazine, Dr. James Van Allen, a longtime shuttle critic, argued that manned flights were diverting important resources from unmanned probes. 
Michelle, Dini, Pancho&Bo 

BACKTO THE GRIND For"ou it'a back to the boob. For ua It' a grinding len•-for "our bettervialon 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacta, gla••­
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTYAND STAFF 
Show "our I.D. and receive 
204J(. OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
Excluding Speciale 

~ ProfessionalVi . 
~ ASSOCIATES 1S10il 1341 Portage
1635 N.lronwood 
234-2400277-1161 
Martin's ShoppingSouth of U.S. 23 
Center 
~----~ -----------~----------------­
The Observer Thursday, january 30, 1986 -page 6 

AI' l'hoto 

An elderly Palestinian walkspasta guertlla base Lebanon. Police said one man was killed and six rocketted byIsraeltjetsyesterday at the outskirts of others were wounded in the raid, Israeli's first in Sidon's Ein EI-Hilweh refugee camp in South Lebanon this year. Story below. 



Israeli jets attack Palestinian bases 
Associated Pre!l8 
SIDON, Lebanon Israeli warplanes streaked in at dawn yes­terday and rocketed Palestinian guerrilla bases in citrus groves that border a sprawling refugee camp, flattening one building and badly damaging two. 
Hospitals in this ancient sout­hern port said one guerrilla was killed and five guerrillas and a Lebanese civilian were wounded in the first Israeli air force attack this year inside Lebanon. 
Four jets rocketed the bases of Syrian-backed guerrillas on the outskirts of the Ein el-Hilweh Palestinian refugee camp near Sidon, which is 25 miles south of Beirut. 
They made several passes at the three targets nestled among orange and lemon trees around the camp. 
The air attack occurred shortly before an infiltrator from Jordan killed two Israeli soldiers and wounded two in an ambush at the border settlement ofMeholain the occupied West Bank. The Israeli military command said the in­filtrator was shot dead. 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel, who was in Berlin, said the air raid would not affect the plan for Middle East peace negotiations he is promoting on his European tour. 
U.N. peacekeeping troops in South Lebanon dismantled four 107mm Katyusha rockets pointed at Israel minutes before they were to be fired by an electronic timer 
yesterday,  a U.N.  source said,  
speaking  on  condition  of  
anonymity.  

It was the third time in a week that soldiers of the U.N. Interim Force in Lebanon have found guer­rilla rockets and defused them. 
King Hussein of Jordan and Palestine Liberation Organization chairman Vasser Arafat have been meeting in Amman this week to consider ways of overcoming U.S. objections to a PLO role in peace talks with Israel. 


Hormel profits soar despite strike 
Guyette said, "This company is the most profitable company in the meatpacking industry. They have reported record profits, record sales, and they're trying to cram down our throats the rottenest deal that exists anywhere at any Hormel location." 
Striking Local P-9 of the United Food and Commercial Workers union had expanded its picketing Monday to include plants in Ot­tumwa, Iowa, and Fremont, Neb. The company then fired ap­proximately 265 workers who honored Local P-9's roving pickets. 

Correction 
Because ofan editing error, in­formation concerning the Senior Fellow in last Friday's page 3 story was incorrect. Last year's Senior Fellow was Father Steve 

AMociated Pre!l8 
AUSTIN, Minn. -Union meatpack­ers posted only a few pickets Tues­day outside Hormel's flagship plant and the governor began recalling National Guard troops, as the com­pany announced record earnings. 
The earnings report, issued at a closely guarded shareholders' meeting in Houston, covered a period including the first two months of the strike, which began Aug. 1 7 when 1,500 workers walked out here. 
The workers not on strike "busted their britches to have a record 

EXCEL 
continuedfrom page 1 
parties in major cities in 1984-1985. 
"Money also comes from parents, 
friends, corporations, and founda­
tions," Drury said. 
When the campaign isover, Drury 
said, a broad base of support will 
have been cultivated. "By the end of 
the campaign, approximately 8,000 
donors will have contributed to EX­
CEL over its duration," said Drury. 
The office also has sponsored 
Saint Mary's Salutes around the quarter," Hormel Chief Executive Officer R. L. Knowlton said at the meeting, where the company said it earned S38.6 million in fiscal1985. 
"Most of our employees are returning to work," Knowlton said. "It is not affecting us materially." 
He denied allegations that the company is out to break the union. 
"If we were a union buster ... we would have started replacing employees one week or two weeks into the strike," he said. "The idea is not to do away with their jobs, but the idea is to have people returning to work." 
Austin local president Jim 

country in the fall and has scheduled three more for the spring. 
"The purpose of the salutes is to bring the Saint Mary's family toget­her. We want to take our storyout to friends and alumnae of Saint Mary's and thank them. They are in no way fund raisers at all," said Drury. 
In the fall, salutes were held in Washington D.C., Indianapolis, and San Francisco, according to Drury. Pittsburgh, West Chester/Fairfield, and Detroit are the designated sites for the spring salutes. 
Referring to these programs, Drury said, "I'd say these have been very succe~ful." 


EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HARE EVERY l HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo
~HUUI 

111'/!ln.mlltl
108'4 McKtnley Hwy Osceola 
' 

~,~11111111

674-6993 .., 
' •. I •
~ ~f !IJI" n 

lui e1·, fj111nmnu•mr.'
o~~~u~ ~g!! 1111111/lllil/llill ~
I)Jillllill llllllllfPIJIIII II 
' 





Americans spend more for better bill of health 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Americans are healthier and living longer, but also paying steeply for it, the govern­ment said yesterday in its annual report on the nation's health. 
Life expectancy is at a record high and infant mortality at a new low, the report said. 
Although infant mortality fell to an estimated 10.6 deaths per 1,000 births in 1984, health experts said they continue to worry about the slowing pace of the decline, and a persistent gap between the rate at which white and black infants die. 
Achild born in 1983 could expect to live 74.6 years, a new high, the study said. The longest life expec­tancy is enjoyed by white females, 
78.7 years; the shortest by black males, 65.4 years. 
On average, a man who turned 45 in 1983 could expect to live the age of 74.7, more than three years longer than his 1950 counterpart, while a woman celebrating her 45th birthday in 1983 could expect to live to 80.4, more than 4% years 
longer than the 45-year-old woman of 1950. Gains in the nation's health have not come cheaply, however. 
Per capita spending on health reached $1,580 in 1984, three times the amount spent 10 years earlier, the report said. And medical infla­tion continues to surpass the overall rise in consumer prices, although at a slower pace than in recent years. 
In his report to Congress, Health and Human Services Secretary Otis Bowen called the record "impressive." 
Gains in life expectancy were at­tributed in large part to the decline in cigarette smoking and to im­proved treatment of high blood pressure. The latter has been a focus of government educational cam· paigns, particularly among blacks. 
While more than half of all adult males smoked in 1965, that figure dropped to approximately 35 per­cent in 1983. Statistics for women showed a much smaller decline in smoking, from 34.2 percent to 29.9 percent -and black women showed an increase. 

Official: Non-smokers have legitimate rights 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-It's time to stop dismissing non-smokers as "finicky busybodies" when they complain about inhaling other people's smoke, a government health-safety official said yesterday. 
John Topping Jr., staff director of the Environmental Protection Agency's Office ofAir and Radiation, said evidence linking "passive smoke" to disease, though fragmen­tary, "seems sufficient to warrant strong steps to cut down involun­tary exposure to cigarette smoke." 
He said his own agency was not proposing cigarette-smoke regula­tions. But he spoke approvingly of scattered cities, such as San Fran­cisco, that have passed laws on the subject. And he said public health warnings would be a good idea. 
Topping, speaking at a National Academy ofSciences public hearing, said that: 
•Last 
year's projection, by govern­ment and other researchers, of 5,000 annual lung-cancer deaths from non-smokers' exposure to passive smoke has "gained accep· tance in the public health com­munity." 

•A 
"mountain of evidence" links smoking parents with infants' il­lnesses. 

•Other 
studies have indicated ex­posure to passive smoke "may significantly increase risks of heart attack." 


"The non-smokers' rights move­ment has been portrayed by tobacco interests as an assemblage of finicky busybodies intent on imposing their values on smokers," Topping said. 


·1441 


Accent 
Thursday,January 30, 1986-page 7 

Being an R.A.: 

notjust ajob 
,1 
BETH STEININGER problem that's come up, we can features writer solve It right away," she said with a "'', sense ofsatisfaction. 
, 
K 
eeplng set hours may be a "As yet, I haven't really had any choice for some, but for resi­problems, though. There are a lot of dent assistants It Is a must. Having freshmen In my section and they all weekly meetings, being on-call and seem to be doing pretty well." planning section events require Hess said she had a good feeling from them exactly what we all as about her section and retold an students fight for -free time. incident that made her feel Recent Interviews with three worthwhile as an R.A. R.A.s revealed more than a fight "I was In New York over break against the clock, however. Their and ran Into a girl from my section. job Involves more than a simple She introduced me as her friend and sacrifice of weekends, for the R.A.s not as her R.A. That made me feel in question had to deal with their glad because of the stereotypes that sometimes conflicting roles as R.A. make us out to be ogres, and not and friend, and the sometimes friendly people." pressing questions ofrespect and Karen Nicholas, a senior R.A. In authority. LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's agreed 
All of these require careful ap­that the stereotypes about R.A. and praisals of priorities. What being an hall directors take root In everyone. 
R.A. means to the three seniors "I even believed in them until I varied, but they all agreed on the seriously considered applying for fact that they need to be organized. the position. The two weeks that I 
It's exactly the race against the spent here at the beginning ofthe clock that makes these certain semester, though, made a dif­students so organized and so able to frrence. I became Involved, met 
organize for others. lots of nice people and learned 
According to Shawn O'Grady, a about the job that I'd do. And I senior chemical engineering major haven't met one ogre yet." and R.A. in Stanford Hall, the life ofa resident assistant can be pretty When asked about what hectic. "I'm not out to be the 'long motivated them to become R.A.s, arm of the law,' I'm just a guy doing the three gave analogous responses. my job. Luckily, everyone in my They all like to be helpful and being section has a sense of respect and R.A.s gives them the opportunity to 
they use common sense. That helps do exactly that. me get my job done." Concerning the advantages and O'Grady further explained about disadvantages of their commitment, 
his becoming an R.A. He was the three reportedly mourned the chosen as an alternate for a section free time lost, but were ap­full of his friends. Although It may preciative ofhaving their rooms appear that the situation would paid for by the school. Meeting The Observer I Justin Smith 
present special problems, O'Grady many new and exciting people, and said that he didn't believe that it earning their stipends were also 
Senior Shawn O'Grady, one ofNotre Dame's many resident assistants, helps freshman Paul Bintinger out with his math 
has. Keeping an open mind and an welcomed benefits. 
homework. This is only one ofthe many features to thisjobr 
attitude ofrespect has smoothed The time requirement for the the few conflicts that have arisen. three was reportedly different. 
Mary Hess, a senior R.A. in Farley O'Grady and Hess reponed having Time spent in weekly meetings an average ofthree week nights per Life, focused on giving useful tips to Hall, said that she believes that the to work a five hour shift one night was not included in the minimum semester. Weekend duty was make the R.A.s function as effi­students willingness to cooperate each week. They also work one breakdown of 15 hours. reportedly rwo night rotations over ciently as possible. coincides with their respect. weekend night for seven hours. the course of the semester. "Even though you sacrifice 
"My job is sometimes full-time These rwo said that at least three For Nicholas, the time break­R.A. training for the three in­weekends and run on a tight and sometimes pan-time work. I additional hours each week were down was different. She reported cluded programs ranging from fire schedule, I think that the ex­find that when the girls in my sec­spent being available to their sec­having to work three hours desk safety to alcohol education. The perience Is worth it," commented tion are willing to talk about a tions. duty each week and being "on call" programs, sponsored by Residence O'Grady. 
"It's not English, it's rt '' says Tokyo.
a ' 

T 
"Japanese copywriters very con­to You, King Kong." or "Do not Visitors encounter the bizarre greeting card shows a pig riding a scientiously and adroitly use disturb please. SCRAP!" English from the moment they motor scooter and the words: OKYO-Ayoungjapanese English as Japanese,'' he said in an "It doesn't matter what's written arrive In Japan. A sign at the "Winken's Tidbits. Brave Acts Can couple stroll down chic Omote interview. "The words have no on them. It's not English, it's art, and Skyllner express train station at Be Ruined By Accidents." A Sando Boulevard, their matching meaning. but connote something, ifthe colors and shapes are nice, it Tokyo's International Airport notebook is titled, "The Shortened jackets bearing the words "Fancy like 'Oh My Dining.' " He said that will sell," said Takashi Murakami, advises: "Ifyou want to take non­History of Mankind." Pimple." On the platform at Shin· that was a slogan used by Seibu 
Zen Mall's manager. smoking car, please offer to sell 
juku station, a young man in a punk department stores to promote "Nobody ever asks us what they ticketer." · "The visual layout Is important, hairdo sports a coat with bold, personalized tableware. mean. We don't even know our­In Kyoto, a hotel warns non­not the message," says Yojl Izawa, stylized lettering: "anth-rax." The English word "my," in fact, is selves!" Japanese guests that "Depositing chiefdesigner ofGC Inc., a paper 
Uke most otherJapanese who widely used to convey a sense of Some food names may sound the room key into other person is products maker. One ofhis crea­wear English slogans on shirts, Intimacy berween owner and ob­
attractive toJapanese but revolting prohibited." Another hotel in Kobe tions shows a female pig bathing. jackets, hats, even underwear, they ject, such as "my home" and "my to a native speaker ofEnglish, such says, "Guests are requested to hand with the caption: "Heathery and said they didn't know what the car." Tokyo Gas Co. went a step as "Creap" coffee creamer and over their car key to canaker." precious. Scent ofa monologue. A words meant. further with the slogan, "My Life, "Calpis" fermented milk drink. The absence in the Japanese formal imitation. Slightly mellowing 
"Japanese lngurisshu" (English), My Gas." Supermarkets sell candy that goes language of"L" and "V" sounds also tonlte. A ball." adds to the general confusion. Izawa was also responsible for a
as the form is widely called, adorns "Let's" and "Do" are also by these dubious sounding names: not just clothing but pencil cases, favorites, especially in connection "Bourbon Pickle," "Chocolate Sand Tourists can visit what one map letterhead design ofa policeman Cookies," "Gilco Pocky" and calls the "Nara Prefectural Fork arresting a masked hippopotamus,
shopping bags, stationery and many with action. "Do Sports" Is a "Choco Pretch." with 11. single, four-letter word In
other items · and much ofIt is in­popular athletic club, and many (folk) Museum," and an Osaka hotel foreigners recall the enigmatic Resident foreigners regularly proudly touts its "Gland (grand) quotes. When one retailer returned
correct, absurd or unintentionally obscene. T-shln, "Let's Sports Violent All Day note down and swap slogans, espe­Salon." Restaurants hand out a shipment because an American 
"Absolutely weird," is how Kim Long." Instructions for Mercotin cially four-letter words and other "runch" or "ranch" (lunch) menus customer complained that It was Schuefftan, an editor with Kodansha tablets once read, "Adults: 1 tablet 3 obscenities that constantly turn up and one translated "Chivas Regal" obscene, the word was altered to International, a publisher of times a day until passing away." on T-shirts and shopping bags. as "Sea Birth Regal." read "shoot!" English-language books onJapan, Among the scores oftiny clothing Embarrassing double entendres "You can Interpret It rwo ways. describes it. Schuetftan is compiling shops in Tokyo's trendy Harajuku sometimes go undetected, said "How To Cooking Expert. A You can take It In fun or be In­examples of"Japanese Ingurisshu" area Is Zen Mall, where customers Schuelltan, who has lived here for Sunny Side Up!" says a commer­sulted." Izawa said. "Unfortunately I in advertising and fashion. can choose designs such as "Just Fit 22 years. cially sold stationery letterhead. A didn't realize that then." 


~i~~~_()__i_Il__t_________________Th_ur-sd-~,-Jan_u~--30-,1-98-6--pa-ge-8 

\ \"' 
r WOfJL&1 HAve -ro. PAY~ rHt:.SE AT11/c8t:JoxsTOf(£1 
Much work is necessary to improve book sale 
Many people, at some time in their lives, are confronted with the problem of the poor among us. Throughout life, there is always someone who has less than-we have. 
Jeanne Grammens 
ask not 
Sometimes feelings ofguilt accompany this reality. We might ask why we were given the opportunity to study at such a university while many struggle to finish high school, or why we want another pair of Guess jeans while some are in rags. While material wealth, intelligence, good looks, luck and many other factors are unequally distributed in this life, we cannot let guilt overshadow the utilization ofsuch gifts. 
Somewhere along the way, someone told me the more gifts we are given, in whatever form they come, the more responsibility we have to share these gifts with those who are lacking. The most promising way to share these gifts, however, is not in a better-than­thou giving offish, butin a more Christian way of teaching how to fish. It's all in the attitude. When I first went to the Center for the Home­less in South Bend, 1had a fear that could have overshadowed my intentions. I was afraid to be among "those people" because they would think I was some snooty college student wearing my heart on my sleeve. 
I soon found the answer to this stigma lies in an understanding of humanity. Come on, we're all in this together. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link. When we have poor among us, we, as human beings, are poor. When we have hungry, sad, lonely, cold, dirty people among us, we are hungry, sad, lonely, cold and dirty. When we feel one with these people, not above them, then we can truly help them. How do we help them? There is not an easy answer to this question, but through limited experience, and unlimited contemplation, I have developed a theory. 
There are three types of people in this world: those who need help and are willing to help themselves, those who need help and are not willing to help themselves, and finally, those who cannot help themselves. The last classification is the easiest to explain. They are the ones many people are ashamed of. Some of them are the ones we try to get rid of or hide. The ones we try to get rid ofare the ones who never have a chance to help themselves. They are killed before they see the light ofday. 
Millions of people, millions of Christian people, more specifically, millions ofCatholic people, believe a woman has the right to deny these people -excuse me, these "potential people" -the right to make a life for them­selves. Who knows, these tiny fetuses may have had gifts to share with us in this world. 
Old people, along with the physically and mentally ill, share in this reality that they can­not really help themselves. These people truly need our help. Their needs are the true test of Christian compassion because they can never pay us for our time and efforts. 
The second group of people are discourag­ing to work with. They have the ability to help themselves, but they have reached a point of despair. This is when the human feeling ofdig-

Doonesbury 


We should use our gifts 
-to aid the less fortunate 
nity has been worn away. Contrary to com­mon belief, this feeling is not born with someone. It is painfully scraped away by cir­cumstances and by fellow human beings. It is on the faces ofthe people at the Center for the Homeless, the people in the Detroit soup kitchens and the people on the park benches right behind the glorious White House. Who knows if the feeling of dignity and human value can ever be recaptured in the people who have reached this point. We can only try to show them that they do have a purpose in life. They too have gifts to share. 
Only with this belief will the beginning of human potential be realized. The last group of people, those who are willing and able to help themselves, are the closest to reaching this potential. The major problem is the fact that they are often not aware ofthe tools they have for helping themselves. Surprisingly enough, there are institutions attempting to show them. 
In Detroit, Michigan, there is a temporary shelter which requires a contract from every person who enters the doors. Each guest must participate in daily upkeep of the center, along with keeping his or her section clean. They must also spend hours a day seeking employment and permanent shelter. Some of the members have united to form a commit­tee to mediate between shelter administra­tion and guests. Being treated like human beings, responsible for themselves, gave them the incentive to stand up for their rights. They united and formed an organized, legitimate committee. 
Other organizations in Detroit work with the same beliefin human value. Soup kitchens, shelters and neighborhood renewal organiza­tions work to incorporate the neighborhood people into the administration. The people are realizing that they can and must help themselves. These people, who learn to value and take control of life, may be the ones who can reach the people in despair. 
Human beings place value in things in which they have invested time, energy and ef­fort. That is whyJoe Domer values the date he has called six times. Or why Mary SMC values the "A" she has studied for. The first step to dealing with the poverty in our midst has to come from the poor. They have to value their lives and realize their potential. 
Many times human beings need a push or an insight to the potential at hand. As gifted people, we are expected to offer the insight, the push. Sometimes the needy are not far off, in Washington, D.C., Detroit, Mich. or the in­ner eity of South Bend, Ind. Sometimes they are in the room next door, or in the Business Ethics class. 
Often the solution to human despair lies within the human being himself, but more times than not we cannot reach the answer by ourselves. We need to see a hand extended in human compassion. We need to be shown how to use the fishing rod, rather than be given fish. As long as there are human beings who are not realizing their potential, human beings on the whole are incomplete. 
jeanne Grammens is a senior government and communications major at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

Does anybody know what happened at the Student Activities Board book sale? The people in charge of the sale don't seem to know. When I asked them if they had ab­solutely any record ofthe book I placed in the sale, the only answer I repeatedly got from those who were incharge was"I don't know." 
Sam Siewert 

guest column 
The SAD people did produce a haphazard listing of books that were supposed to have been accounted for upon my insistence. Un­fortunately, a complete list had not been made prior to the sale as it should have been. This seems to be a practice that would be con­sidered basic to any sales venture. I am sure I am not the only existing casualty of this chaotic extravaganza that was a "Mutt and Jeff' scene from start to finish. Finally, even if you personally were not affected I still feel it is important students ofa major university such as Notre Dame should know their Student Ac­tivities Board seems to have some accounting practices which are questionable. 
I enjoy very much the activities the board promotes; however, in my admittedly limited experience with its business practices, I feel it is quite unsatisfactory. I am quite sure anybody who was involved in the booksale, purchaser or solicitor, can commiserate with me. I believe the sale was a great idea although grossly mishandled. 
Let me explain the pitfalls of the past sale and offer some ideas for badly needed im­provement ifsuch a sale is to be held again. A record was not made ofthe book I dropped off to be sold on the day before the actual sale. Those in charge did have a contract that was filled out at this time; however, in my case, they did not keep a record themselves and in­stead gave the sole copy back to me. 
Those who attended the sale, I'm sure, are quite aware of the disorganization and result­ing mayhem of that operation. The location was poor. For any sale such as this, mucb bet­ter control should have been exercised and the sale should have been better staffed. With controlled check out turnstile exits the service to the purchasing students would have been infinitely better and would most 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
Believing is a fine thing, but placing those beliefs into executionis the real test ofstrength." 
Tom Dooley 
likely have thwarted stealing which obviously happened. 
Perhaps worst ofall, the books were left out in the hall in LaFortune after the sale, unat­tended, and in heaps open for many days (and they still are) to anyone who wanted to take them. 1 trust most students and I'm sure we all have a lot of integrity, but this was ludicrous. Yes, I know this is a Catholic university, but would you leave the equivalent of 20 dollars on the floor anywhere and expect it to be there the next day? Maybe the people who ran the book sale would. 
Further, when I inquired about my book, I was told I would be called later when they had checked their records. First I was told the book was stolen, then a day later that it had been sold, and finally nothing. I guess it was stolen, but nobody could even confirm the book was in the sale. If the board could not handle such a procedure due to lack ofstaffor interest and determination then the sale should not have been held the way it was. 
Let me offer now a possible alternative for the future. Because a sale such as was held does require a lot of planning and work, both of which were lacking, a much simpler program could have been held. For a fee or percentage, the board could have sponsored an exchange network of books, names and phone numbers through The Observer. 
The student would have simply had to enter information into a computer and await phone calls and productive exchange of books criti­cal to the education they're getting here. I'm sure there are many alternatives. Please do not think I am taking unwarranted cheap shots at the Student Activities Board. I am simply reacting out of concern. The fact my practi­cally unopened 33 dollar Fortran 77 book is in Limbo somewhere never even accounted for is only a small part ofthe issue. I wonder what other funds may be accompanying my book. Finally, I want to make an offer to the board. Please check into this matter, and if you need help, you can count on me. I urge all students to forward their input. This is our organization and money: Let's make sure it is beneficial to us. 
Sam Siewert is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies. 
-
"ielYp.~o~i~n~t~------------------------------------------Th__ ___ __
u_rs_d_ay_,_Ja_n_uruy 3_o,_I_9_B_6_-p_a_ge9 


Continued pioneering would be fitting memorial 
America watched as the space shuttle Chal­lenger made its 75-second rise into the air, fireballed and then returned to the Earth in thousands of pieces. Across the country, mil­lions witnessed the launch firsthand, express· lng shouts of joy which turned abruptly into cries of horror. The event Itself stands out as the greatest space tragedy in U.S. history, with none of the seven crew members surviving the explosion. 
Cindy Rauckhorst in perspective 
Amid the confusion of NASA investigations, assl·ssments of space travel benefits and at­tempts to grapple with shock and grief, much can be learned from the unplanned and pain· ful twist of events which occurred Tuesday. New Hampshire school teacher Christa McAuliffe and her six colleagues prove to be world-wide educators, even in death. 
Most Importantly, the seven astronauts represent thousands of pioneers, many also risking their lives for a cause:, who have helped the United States to progress to its present state in science, medicine and other fields. These leaders realize perhaps better than most that failure is an integral part ofeventual success, a stepping stone which often answers questions and opens up even more. 
We should not be startled that Challenger malfunctioned; with so many possibilities for mechanical and human error in the complex launching system, the surprise: is that an acci­dent did not occur sooner. Some failure is in­evitable each time man enters a challenging scientific or technological field, venturing vir­tually unarmed into the unknown. 
The fiery fate of Challenger brought crash­ing to Earth the sense: of routineness that had become associated with missions to space. Maybe that's one way to positively assess the tragedy of the crash. The startling realization that nothing is secure, that man is not all­knowing and that nature will at times test the brave explorers by reasserting its mysterious dominion over mankind is a difficult but in­valuable lesson to learn. 
"No one wants a failure in which seven Jives are lost," said Helenmarie Hofman, assistant director of the National Science Teachers As­sociation. "But maybe this will help us redefine what we mean in science by failure... When failure is a part ofhistory, it can become the underpinnings of success. We often get our heroes and heroines in sad ways." 
The catastrophe terminates a success period of more than 20 years oflaunches con­ducted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; the deaths of the seven crew members mark the first fatalities to occur during actual flight in more than 50 manned 
U.S. space missions. Only once in that previous history did death occur, during a 1%7 fire which broke out on the launching 
pad and killed three astronauts conducting an 
equipment exercise. 

The solid NASA success record, however, sometimes masks the difficulties and near­disasters which have occurred more often than realized. The closest brush with death during an American flight came on Apollo 13 in 1970, when three astronauts were left in space without power or heat after an oxygen tank exploded. Another malfunction oc­curred in 1966 when the Gemini 8 spacecraft began spinning out of control, rotating crew members Neil Armstrong and David Scott at 60 revolutions per minute. 
Learning from these: mishaps and many ot­hers, NASA scientists continually have made adjustments and revisions to bring the program up to date. Yesterday's dream of reaching the Moon has evolved into the far greater ambition ofexploring remote planets in the solar system. And only our inability to learn from past mistakes will hinder the fur­ther progress of the space program. 
Throughout history, man and machine have worked both for and against each other, man trying desperately to harness this intriguing and challenging power. The relationship has endured triumph as well as tumult. 
The early example of the Wright brothers, for instance, sparked interest in the incredible idea that men could fly using machines. The discovery of a polio vaccine by Jonas Salk showed that man did have some control ofthe diseases which invaded his body. Both success stories evolved, however, only through frustration and failed attempts, and lifetimes ofdedicated work. 
Even the greatest leaders fall sometimes. But the key is treating the fall as a temporary setback, not a brick wall. Persistence, effort, time, money and occasionally even human life are sacrifices in the quest for excellence and discovery. 
The United States should continue Its drive toward excellence In space exploration, using the tragedy of the Challenger as a chance to stop and evaluate its program, and to then move on more determinedly. It seems that would be the most fitting memorial to the seven astronauts, who would want the United States to usc: the new information they have taught us in both life and death. 
We are all pioneers in a sense:, discovering that only through a progression offailures can greater results be achieved and new goals set. Small victories lead to some answered ques­tions and bring up hundreds more. But much can also be learned from malfunctions, failures and even tragedy. 
In the words ofSenator Gordon Humphrey, commenting on the tragic fate of Challenger, "Learning and growth· that's what mankind Is all about." 
Cindy Rauckborst is a junior English and economics major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


We must not let the tragedy set our nation back 
I watched with horror and sadness the replay of the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger. Seven lives lost In a horrible acci­dent. This tragedy Is truly one to which we have not been exposed before. Most of us are too young to remember how 19 years ago three astronauts were killed during an ex­ercise:. Never before have we lost a life while in !light. Suddenly that has all changed. And we need to ask ourselves, what does It all mean? 
William Wilson or to tear the pages 
The many problems which plagued this mission were almost prophetic -the constant problems and delays almost seem to have been saying ·~don't do it now." But we took a chance, and we failed. 
I cannot help but wonder what the seven astronauts experienced in the last seconds of their lives. Did they know what was happen­ing. did they even know it happened? We cer­tainly realized something happened when we saw what appeared to be a normal flight sud­denly erupt into fire and smoke. 
While we, as a nation, must mourn this loss, we cannot let it set us back. We must inves­tigate to our fullest potential the cause: of this tragedy in an effort to prevent its reoccur­rence. We must not, however, end our space program. Think about the first time someone was killed in a plane crash or an automobile accident, and think where we would be today ifwe had opted then to stop our progress. 
We have so much to learn about our uni­verse:, our world, ourselves from space, and we cannot afford as a people to stop learning. Yes, the events ofJan. 28, 1986, are a tragedy, and we do not want it to happen again. But the knowledge we gain from each trip, which af­fects mankind as a whole, is something valuable which we cannot give up. It is hard to decide if the knowledge is worth seven lives, but perhaps It is. 
I feel for the families and friends of those lost, and I wish they never had to experience this pain of losing a loved one. These: seven astronauts were special people, and they will be sorely missed by their families and friends. Their deaths, however, were not in vain. They gave their lives for us as a people. They were willing to risk everything so that our world would be a little bit better a place in which to live. Let us mourn our loss of these: people, and pray that others will bravely step in to take their places in the continuing quest for knowledge and understanding. 
Our space program's record is still good. And no matter how many times we might fail, we must keep trying. Once we become con­tent to live only on our world, we stop growing as people. President Reagan noted there could be no better memorial to these: astronauts than to keep our space program alive and flourishing. Perhaps the astronauts aboard Challenger would want It that way. 
Let us never forget these: seven brave people, and let us be thanllful there are those few who are willing to give everything so the rest ofus may grow. 
William Wilson is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters and a regular VIew­point columnist. 
potholes and other Impediments In their path. Furthermore, motorists cannot see the run­ners until they are just a few feet from them. This Is dangerous for both the runners and motorists. As this road around the campus Is the only road on which It Is safe to run at night, something definitely should be done. 
Because: there already are several sections of the shoulder paved, the job of paving the remaining sections will not be a difficult one, and It should be accomplished Immediately. 
jane Blaha Badin Hall 

Editor's Note 
Because of a processing errar, a letter to the editor attributed to Dave Johnson that appeared in yesterday's Observer was un­verified. Efforts to verify the letter have been unsuccessful. 

P.O.BoxQ 

Those remaining behind must continue challenge 
Dear Editor: 
If you were like me, you received the news 
of our space shuttle tragedy sometime Wed­
nesday afternoon. And I do mean 'our tragedy' 
· for the entire program belongs to our 
country. It Is our pride, our creation, our tes­
timony to our knowledge and our challenge 
to the heavens. 
And If you watched as I did, you sat in dis­
beliefand horror as you witnessed the telecast 
ofthat terrible explosion. Though I knew oflts 
fate as I sat and watched that craft soar up to 
the heavens, the impact, the pain, and the 
heart-rending sorrow was nonetheless im­
mense. It was as if our nation's dream sud­
denly transformed before us Into a fearsome 
nightmare. We suddenly faced death's cruel 
mistress whom we had so often eluded in our 
missions past. I could feel only the helpless­
ness and pain which we all shared. 
Yet it wasn't supposed to happen that way. Twenty-four previous missions: perfect Such was the routine nature of our launches that many of them went hardly even noticed. We scarcely believed we could fall. And yet we did. 
Let us never forget the lives of those: seven. Let us always remember their families and loved ones. And let us never forget why they died. For it is our human nature to step for­ward and accept whatever challenges lie before us, and though we know the risks, we must always take them. And this is just what they did. It is up to those who remain behind to step forward and continue in their places and to raise our challenge to the heavens once more. As in the immortal words ofJohn Gil­lespie Magee Jr. In his poem "High Flight", those: brave seven crew members have 
"slipped the surly bonds ofEarth And danced the skies on laughter silvered wings sunward climbed, and joined the tum­!Jiing mirth 
And while with silent, lifting mind they 
trod The high untrespassed sanctity ofspace Put out their band, and touched the face of 
God." 

Michael Smith, Francis Scobee, Ronald McNair, Ellison Onizuka, Christa McAuliffe, Gregory Jarvis, and Judith Resnik, we will never forget you. 
CbrlstopberO. Vargas graduate student 

Lack of paved surface is hazardous to runners 
Dear Editor: 

I agree with Steven A. Sley's letter ofJan. 24, 1986, concerning the need to pave the shoulders ofthe road from the east gate to the far end of Notre Dame Avenue. As a runner, I often have been inconvenienced by the lack of a reliable running surface in the aforemen­tioned area. Running at night is especially hazardous, as the runners cannot discern 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business ManaQer ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
M~inQ Editor .................................Amy Stephan Controller ............................. WilHam J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising ManaQer ..............................Jim Hagan 
The Obaefver IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough AdvertisinQ ManaQer .................... Anne M. CuiUgan
Notre Dame duLac and s.int Mary's College. It does not neceaaarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson
adm1mstrat1on of either inatitution. The news is reported u accurately and objectively u pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy
lanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column apace is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy
ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November3, 1966 
The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1986 -page 10 



Sports Briefs 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz will be the 
guest speaker at a meeting for all freshmen interested in becoming members ofthe Student Managers Organization. The meeting will be held tonight at the ACC football auditorium (enter Gate 2) at 7 p.m. All those interested but not able to attend should call the managfr's office at 239-6482. -Tbe Observer 
SMC varsitysoftball players should attend a meeting today at 6 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. Anyone interested in playing is welcome. For more Information call the Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
The NVAcross-country ski clinic has been 
rescheduled for two times, both on Sunday. The first is at 10 a.m. and the second is at 2 p.m. New registrants are welcome. Call NVA at 2 39-61 00 for information. -The Observer 
The ND Women's TrackClub will hold its first 
indoor meet ofthe season on Saturday at 3 p.m. at the ACC. Anyone interested in attending or in timing the races is welcome. For more information call Mary Beth at 277-1983.-The Observer 
BodyFatTesting will be offered by NVA to the first 75 people free ofcharge on Tuesday at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
Men's and Women's indoor soccer 
tournaments will be held by the NVA. Rosters must include a qJini­mum ofeight players and should be turned in with a $5 entry fee by Wednesday. For more information call the NVA. -The Observer 
Moonlight cross country skiing will be of­
fered by the NVA on Thursday, Feb. 6 from 7 p.m.-10 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Anyone interested may rent skis at a cost of $1 at the Rockne GolfShop. For more information call NVA. -
Tbe Observer 

Hydrorobics,aerobics in the water, will begin Monday at 
6:45 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Classes will be held every 
Monday and Wednesday. For more Information call NVA. -Tbe Ob­server 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NVA.-Tbe Obser­ver 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for NO and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVA at 2 39-51 00. -Tbe Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrompage 16 
UCLA, North Carolina, Syracuse and Duke. And the Irish already recruit on a nationwide level. 
It appears that at this point in time the Irish have little to gain and a great deal more to lose by joining a conference. For example, in most conferences, television revenues are shared, and it seems the Irish would only lose through this sharing. One gets the impression that Notre Dame would be helping the other three schools at its own expense. 
"If I were them (Marquette, Dayton and DePaul), I wouldn't wait on Notre Dame," CBS announcer Billy Packer told the Tribune. "I don't think they can afford to wait on Notre Dame, and they can exist wit­hout Notre Dame." 
For ·now, it seems, the other in­dependents would rather not take that chance. 
There may come a time when it would be in Notre Dame's best inter­est to help in forming a conference. But, for now, why ruin a good thing? 
Tbt• Obserr·er :'\olrt' llamt• offin:. lot·art·d on tht• thord noor of' l.al·onum· ~ludt·nl Cen1.-r. at <'<'PI' da"ifinl adn·rt"on~ lrorn <J a rn until 1 p rn . .\lunda\ throu~h ~rolla\ Tbt• Obst'T't'er ~aim .\lan ·, olfi«· lotatl'd on tht· thord noor of' lla~~ar Loll<-~<·< t'nlt'r. at <<·pt' <la'"finl' lrorn 1.! ~~~ p m until .~ p m. \Ion· day I hough hoda\ lkadlom: lor m·xt da\ <la"olkd' " ~ p m All cla"ofit·d, mu't ht· prepaod. t•othn on pcr">n or h' rnaol < ll.lr~l'" Ill n·nh pt:r fht: charat··





Classifieds 
'"" n da\' 
NOTICES 
Typing Availllble 287-4082 

$10.$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circue.ral 
Noquotu! Sincerely Interested ruah Mlf-llddr­envelope: Succaa, POBox 470CDD, Woodllock, IL 60098. 
TYPING CALL CHillS 

IIWII7. 
Au.dlon: Stuclenl8 
DolorwF....,. 
TJPIIII a.m. 
"-•ph-olwlp
277-1111 

.... ....,_ wanted lor c.mpua t.nd 
with hom aection. Band reedy to ~y v8rlety of caver muaic,origonllle pouitlle. c.11 BRIAN 2258 
TYPING Term ...,_.., ,_.-, 111­--. IIP!IIIc:.tl-. "-anllllle .....; 
pldnlp I cMIIYery on _...,... ..,....... Cllll c.thy Scllullz ..._ 11-10 p.m. 277-1114. 

LOST/FOUND I 

LOST: Gold herringbone lncelet with tri color gold roee an.ched. REWARD!!!!! c.ll J..:kie at2286. 
LOST: BIKk & White woven IIC*f. On II ie a tag atating It wu made In Ireland. Cell Tim at 1214. 
H you .OOdentdy took my long, black, wool ~~ on Sat. ni9hl at the O.C. party on Mane, could you ~return It? I am freezing! The tic 1-.:a are youra bull really need my I.D. and~~ t.ck! 3738 
LOST: A thick, chain-linked gold bracelet with • large claap. It -loa! Fri., Jan. 17th. It h• incredible aentimental v-'ue and cannot be replaced. II you have any Information, ~ call Karen at 1884. 
Thank You. 
loa!: pair ol Nght orange rim ~in a nwoon caae, II found call Eltn 284-5276 
.................................................'............... FOUND: Men'a Wri-•tch-Cal Tom ae.tty at2308 aher 10 pm to identily. 
LOST: WOMAN'S NO RING WITH BLUE STONE AND INSIDE INSCRIPTION: LER 83 CALL JOANN AT 3878. 
LOST: MULTICOLORED WOOLEN SCARF OF GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE MAYBE AT NO/SO DINING HALL. REWARD. CALL MARY AT 2206 
LoaT ONE PAIR OF PRIESCIIIPTION 
QLAUU 

I -riding in the t.:I<Mat of your blue 2-Goor at10:30 am on ~Y the 27th. You droYe me down NO Ave and let me Off at !he drcle.llelt my.---Inyour t.:k­
-·II you find them can you brtng them to Tex at the South Dining Hal. 
LOST-or atolen. NO jKket at OC perty, Mallia St.lllound, calBrian at283-2385. 
TO THE PERSON WHO ACCIDEN­TALLY TOOK MY JACKET from the 1/24/116 SMC Clubhouaa perty: p._., rtiMn my jKket. No queetiona uked. 
3452 
LoaT: -cowboy hat with -­
Nnd In cllnllll hal. Cal Jim 1310. 
loa! MONEY,BANKING & FINANCIAL MARKETS BOOK in Buaineaa building name and addreaa are on the inaide caver; call John AT 1024 
LOST: Pair of Brown Glovee in Gym 4 ol the ACC on Tu-y, Jan. 28. PI-call 808at1248 illound, My handa are freez­Ing! 
LOST: A PAIR OF LONG,RED GLOVES IN WASHINGTON HALL DURING FAT­HER BLANTZ'S 10:10 HISTORY CLASS. IF FOUND, CALL KAY AT 3208. 
LOIT:1 kUE HALF SIZED NOTEBOOK .D-.AL. CONTAINED VERY PER­a.AL INFORMATION PLEASE AETUAN IF FOUND TO SALLIE 284­15012 

J FOR RENT 
N.D. Ave. Apt lor rent -II Interested call Shirley at 234-8847 
LARGE FOUR-BEDROOM HOME WIU ACCOMMODATE FIVE STUDENTS. COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
Campua View Apt.!!!ll Rent-$100.00, Female-nonamokerprel. Call Ellen 1312. 

WANTED 

WANTED lnexpenaive electric typewriter in running condition. Call 239-5604 and uk lor Betty. Thanka. 
Ride needed to Wabuh College (Crawfordaville, IN) or Purdue Unlveralty. Weekend of Feb.14·16 Wllshare coats. Cindy 2687 
call joann, 3878 
NEED 8 TIXS FOR MARQUETIE 8­BALL GAME CALL264-4052 OR 4048 

FOR SALE 

IIUST UNLOAD FLOPPY DISKS. $1 PElt. IIONZO 1173 
SHARP Portable Radio for aale Beat Offer 4125 

TICKETS 

I need 2 buketbllll tickets, either GA or atudent, lor either the Marquette game on Feb. 1 or the O.yton g.me on March 8. Call Mike at283-1643. 
NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX. CALL DAVE 1059. 
YES, I have $$$ and, YES, I am deaperately aaeklng up to 4 (lour) tickets to the Marquette game!!! Call me ao my lrienda don't have to Uaten to the game on the radio. GREG-4186, THATS GREG -4186 
I NEED 2 G.A.'S FOR MARYLAND GAME. CALL2642. 
NEED 2-4 Marquette GA's; CALL JIM at 2397; $$$ 
NEEDED: TWO MARQUETTE GA'S WIU PAY$$$$$$ DAVE 277·9026 
A UBYAN DEATH SQUAD WIU HIT SOUTH BEND UNLESS I CAN GET 1 STUD. TI<T. TO THE MARO. GAME. CALL CHRIS AT 4478 TO SAVE OUR FAIR CITY!! 
NEED 2-4 Marquette GA's; call Eric at 1161. THANKS 
FREE SEX ia out of the queation, buti'U offer anything elae lor lour ticketa to the MARQUETTE 8-8AU. GAME. Cal 2169 Hyou can help out. 
NEED MARQUETIE TX 808 1751 
NEED IIAJIQUETTE TICKETStlt Student tix or G.A.a Cell Sheila at272-1 068 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR MARQUETTE CALL BIU AT 288-5442 
BROTHER COMING NEED MAR· QUETIE TIX CAU ANNE 3724 
Need 2GA tix lor Marquette call Chris 2467 
STUDENT TICKET NEEDED FOR MAR­QUETTE GAME SAT. 1. WIU PAY$$$. PLEASE CALL PAUL at 1945. 
I NEED 2 MARQUETTE GA'S: 283-1639; 
JOHN$$ 


PERSONALS 
'''H;;;·;;;~~;;·k;·;;;~·;;·;;;~·~;;;;;;;·;-p~~d 
one hour, epend twenty minutea wflh the ue-we-wiN-become! How much could we Hy IO UI·W8-WII(fl/ 
• Richard Bach, Thalrl• Acroae F-• 
I knew a blind man whom a aurgeon helped to aae. The doctor never hed a lover auch u he. ltla In auch a way that llingera love compoaere. 
-Calvin Miller, 
Puftlutl: 
can I get you well enough lor dinner this weekend? 
T.B. 
HOLY CROSS AS­SOCIATES ... ACCEPT THE CHAL­LENGE! One year poatgraduate work. Develop your faith and dlacern your priorltiee. AP­PLICATION DEADLINE: Thla Friday (31at) Mary Roemer 7949. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD .EER I UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO I A.ll. U.S. 11 N., 1 M.OCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
HOOP HYSTEIIIA T-8HIRTS Support Logan Center and the baaketball team I Long and ahort elevea Stop by Room 221 Stanford or call 2089/2078 lor delivery 

SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­plocationa deadline is February 3. More info at Center lor Social Concerne. 
"We can Make You Leugh" on Febuary 8 if not YOU win $25 
"Toast To The New Year" Jan 31 9:3o-1am HCCSMC Food, Favora and Countdown OJ and Dancing Informal $1 EVERYONE WELCOME!! 
THANK YOU JESUS AND ST. JUDE. JB 
The SA8 announcea the rebirth of Rock 
duLac: 
lt'e bigger! lt'e better! You c.n even ...kIn I It's The Cellar! Dlacount Recorda, Tepee, and awhole lot morel LaFortune Buement 
Why pay8.98 or mora for., eiiJum? Moat lingle albuma only 6.96 Maxell and TDK tepee al auperiow pricea Evaryayl Only at The Ce/Jar LaFortune buement 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-12arn Monday-Thuraday; 5pm-2arn Fridl!y; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday 
SOPHOMORES!!! DON'T MISS TUBING AT BENDIX WOODS THIS THUR. JAN 30 FROM 6-11 PM COST $5. SIGN UPS IN CLASS OFFICE. BUS LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE AT 6PM. 
DAVE FLANAGAN FORUIIOC 
Au.dlon ......_ c.ptllln on a.tur­ay ntghta In 11-C Mc:tlon: You're doing a great job. Keep up the good work. Yourlldmii'WII 
Do you Mira a noM for,...? II you do, the Obaerver newa department needa you. There wiN be a new reporter meeting Thuraday at 7:30 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. Anyone intereeted In coverage of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ie invited to attend thia important informa­tional meeting . 
HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE Howard Hd preaentl 
the annual 
Hm and ne Party Saturday Night Who aays there·s nothing to do In February? HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE 
fioYi.woot:ii..vou..i.i.i<e..;:c;··ae-·:rH~ 
ONE REPORTING THE NEWS? THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPARTMENT 
NEEDSYOUI 1111 intereeted Notre Dame and Saint Mary'ellludenta are encouraged to attend an informational meeting lor new reportera !hie Thuraday at 7:30 in LaFortune'a Wille Theater. Be there and get aet to win your firat PuNtzer Prize! Any queationa, can Dan, Frank, or Teae at 239-5313. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
........................ 
Have you ever played Adventure? What do you do in the shell room? HELP! Call 1401 
11's a thouaand rainy days since we firat met. ll'e • big enough umbrella, but it'a e/ways me that ende up gelling wet. 
Imagine that • pretending to be asleep to lake out an alarm clock. Oh you nutty people. 
Where wu I when aH that wu going on? Where wu I all week? Where am I now? And why? 
................................................................. Until you have determined wtoat the client really wlahaa to buy, you can ·r be sure of What you should ee/1. 
"Jeaus, Aunt Jemima, move over!" 
LOU HOLTZ ian't going but there are stiN spots open for the SENIOR CLASS SKI TRIP at Boyne MI. Any Senlora in­tereeted, call Doug at277-1067 
H-dHal Hat•nd Tla Party Saturday, 9 p.m. Buees leave main circle and Holy Crou (SMC) every 15 minutea Ticketl aold at the door Who eeys there ·a nofhlng to do in February? 
AIIYSIIITH 
AMY SMITH 
ALL ND liEN-THE COOLEST CHIC FROII LOGANSPORT II 20 TODAY! CALL 1261 OR STOP .y 203 -.P AND GIVE AllY SIIITH YOUII.UTIII 
Around the Corner Club invitee AU STU­DENTS to the Alumni-Senior Club on Saturday night to enjoy the aounda of WORD OF MOUTH!!!!! 
SPEND SUIIIIER AND/OR 1....7 SCHOOL YEAR IN SUNNY SPAIN. Qu...ly IIIMI'Uctlon .tEconomy Prl-:11u•-Admlnlalrlltlon, Hl~c Stu.._, Aria and ~­QMDUATE COUMES IN HISPANIC STUDIES OFFERED IN JULY. CON­TACT: Adml--. St. Loula Unlv•­alty, 221 N. Gmld lllvd. IL Louie, 110 83103. Toll-INa a!: (800)125-11141. 
SPECIAL OLYMPICS VOL.S: meeting 7:00, 1/30 Wille Theatre. Eltk 1623 
-IRISH GARDENS..IRISH GARDENS.. IRISH GARDENS· Are you lntereated In working thla aemeater and next year? II you are on financial aid and are intereated in working at THE IRISH GARDENS, pi-come by and pick up an applca­Uon (buament of LaFortune). They MUST be in by FRIDAY, JAN. 31 at5:30­Nopurchue neceuary and NO LATER II 
To the Wreatling Queen (now that you have the proper technique) "I don't think I'U die any second ao I gueaal'l Nve?l?!?" Thanke lor the weel<end. 
Cal, Stay away from me. I told my ded. 
Miranda 
Miranda, Valentinee Day. Save me. Fer­dinand 
HMandTia 
Beth!Ke! 
Hand to hand combat with Marlnee, huh?.,. I've been looking lor a lew good men I the chic who belled Ed G. of Keenan HAPPY BIRTHDAY LYONS!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY LYONS!!HAPPY BIRTHDAY LYONS!! MOVIE MARATHON THIS SATURDAY!!!!! FUN FLICKS!!!!!! FREE POPCORN!!!!!!!! NOON "TOP HAT"(FRED&GINGER) 2:00 "CASABLANCA"(BOOY!) 4:00 · "REAR WINDOW"(HITCHCOCK) 6:00 "MONTY PYTHON'S HOLY GRAIL'" EVERYONE WELCOME!!' 
In thankagiving for hia many yeara of service to the Notre Dame Community, the M-of the Reaurrection wiN be celebrated Friday January 31 at 5:15pm at Sacred H.-t Church. "Big Ed" Kaz· mierzak died of a heart attack on Tu-y Januwy71h. 
HEATHER HAPPY BIRTHDAY! DON 
ATIENTION WHEEL FANS!!! Pat Sajak Fan Club now forming. Cd 272-o2491or detaila. 
"Saturday night? Why, I'd love to go, but I'm going to Howard Hall'a amual Hal andTiaParty.ll'agoingtobeoffcampua, and they're providing buees every 16 minutea! I wouldn't mlae it for the world. Why don't you come, too? You can buy a ticket at the door... 
It doean't get any better than thos Theh---yousay! 
HAPPY 22nd Senauoua SANDY IS ERN!! love, RS&J. 
Attention al NSHP lUten: Remember to attend the mandatory or­ganizational meeting tonight at &:30 in the Alcllltactura •ulldllll. Pleaae come, it's important! 
Word of Mouth 
Wordol Mouth 
WOld of Mouth 
11'1 only two weeka into the aemeater, and I'm already a month behind. 
Why am I taking a course in tragedy, 
now? 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARGARET FROM MCS 
PREPARE FOR A NIGHT YOU'U NEVER REMEMBER, MARGARET FROMCH 
next 24 h,.ln honor of Margaret Mannion 21st b-day hu been reaerved lor phone aex by the b-day girl. For good time call 264· 4393. Ma Bell 
Ride or Riders needed to Cincinnati U eit­her weekend of 1/31 or 2n lntereeted? KC284-4304 
Happy Birthday MAUREEN EltNYIIaure hope you have a wild and crazy time. Don't party loo much, O.K.? Love you, 1 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY IIAUIIEEN ERNYt CALL HER AND WISH HER A GOOD 21ST. 264-4425. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MAUREEN EIINYI CALL HER AT 284· 4425. 
HAPPY ..IITHDAY MAUREEN ERNY! 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 CALL HER AT 284-442& HAPPY BIRTHDAY MAUREEN ERNYI 
MAUREEN EIINY IS 21 TODAY, CALL HER AND WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTH­DAY. 284-4421 HAPPY BIRTHDAY MAUREEN ERNYI 21 21 21 21 21 
The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1986-page 11 
Rememberwhat25eusedtobuy? 
Itstilldoesat 




TunaU 
chunk light, 6.5 oz. oil or water pack 

~w~21 49e 
was 59¢ 

!~:~'~.!~~c! ..............19e 
Kidney Beans 
29e 

grade A fancy. 15 oz .•••..••••• Pork and Beans 
29e 

grade A laney, 16 oz............ 
1
~5~! ~~~ ~~-~~-~ ............ 29e :·~:d.~~~-~~~~~~~ ..........29e 
Spinach 
39e 

grade A laney. 15 oz............ 
~s'::V~~.:~~~~~~~..........49e !~r:~~~~ ..................39e 
Mushrooms 
39e 

stems and pteces, 4 oz ••••••••• 
Cut Asparagus 
69e 

grade A laney. 14 5 oz. ........ . Fruit Cocktail 
All911h 

ChOice quality, heavy syrup. 16 oz 't ~ Pie Filling 

89"' 

blueberry and cherry. 21 oz ...• , ~ California Peaches 
69e 

~rregular culs. 29 oz. •••••••• , •• 

Pancake Syrup, maple flavor, 69"' 
24oz.,was79¢ .. NEWLowPrlce ~ ~2a~zca~~. ~~-~ ••••••••••••.•. 69e ~h~~i ~·-·~ -~~~~-~ ••••....... S9e ~6a~!in~ -~~~-~~~~~-••••••••••39e ~;~;e~~~~~ ~~~~~~!~~-. 99e ::~.e~~~~~-~~~...............89e ~:~u~ ........................S9e ~2°o~d~~~~ -~-~-r-~~~-~-u~-~~·. 79e 
Cake Mix 

49"' 

while, dev11's load. yellow, 18.5 oz ~ 
~r~,w~~~-~i·~··········· ..... 79e 
~2uo~c~~-~~--~~~~ ....••••....89(! Rice-A-Roni 
... 69<!

chiCken flavor. 8oz......... . 
~f!gh.~~~~. ~.r. ~~~~-r-~~-; .... 69e 



~~~:ad~~3~~u-~~~~. ~-~~~-~ .....SJ59 ~
00~~~~~-••••••••••••••••••• 79e 
Yogurt, raspberry or strawberry. 29e 8 oz., was 33¢ •• NEW Low Price 
"'a"'ar .......
C:nned . , ,
Ham ·~ 
51bs. · 
....~~ S699~ 
~~~:,~r~ker -~~ -~-~~-~~......29e 
~~~~~a~r~~~ ...............49e Potato Chips, regular. npple. All911h sour cream & onion, 880, B oz. •'t ~ 
These are not weekly specials. These are everyday ALDI® low prices. 
3207 Llncolnway West South Bend, IN 
Mon.·Thun.: 9am· 7pm 
Friday: 9am •8pm 

Saturday: 9am •6pm 
Closed Sunday 
929N.Eddy South Bend, IN 
Mon.·Thun.: 10am • 7pm Friday: 9am •8pm Saturday: 9am •6pm Closed Sunday 


Rich-n-ReadyCitrusPunch 99"' 
gaL. was $1.19 ••• NEW Low Price ~ 
::.a~~-~-~~~~~-~-~~~ ......69e 
Jeno's Pizza, sausage or 
79e 
comb~nat1on. 10.8 oz.••••••••••• Frozen Orange Juice grade A fancy, concentrate, 




79"' 
12·0Z., was 89¢ • NEW Low Price ~ 
Ice Cream, strawberry sw~rl S'199 or fudge swirl, 5 qt. pall •••••••• , • &;, . 
1
~~~~~nsR~~~~a~;a:..f~~ 1• ••••• J9e 
California Navel Oranges SJ49 large stZe, laney grade. 4 lb. • • , , ••• 
~~s~~:~:_a1~0:s •••••••••••79e ~~·~~g?a~!~~~~ ............49e ~~~d.~~.'~~~~-~~-~~-~~~~.....89e 
Brach's Valentine Candy Heart· 
~~~colates fow~~! SJ79 

The Stoek-Up Sto~
©11186 ALOI Inc. We -lcome cash and food stamps. No checks pleaee. 
r The Observer 
Chicago defensive specialist Ryan takes Eagles top coaching position 
PHILADELPHIA · Buddy Ryan, ar­chitect of the Chicago Bears' awesome defense, was named head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles yeaterday and promised to lead the National Football League team into the playoffs within two years. 
Ryan, after toiling in relative obscurity for most of his 18 years as a defensive specialist, was given a five-year contract for his first try as a head coach. 
Eagles owner Norman Braman in· traduced the 52-year old Ryan as the best coach in the NFL who would give the Eagles "the winning consis­tency they lacked over the last few years." 
Ryan promptly issued a predic· tion as bold as the Bears' attacking defensive strategy. 
"It will not take the five years to go to the playoffs," he said. "I'm not going to wait that long. We'll be con­tenders in a year or so." 
Bears head Coach Mike Ditka wasn't upset by Ryan's departure. 
"The Bears played challenging, ag­gressive defense in the 60s," he said in Chicago. "It didn't start when Buddy came here, and it won't end because Buddy left here." 
Ryan was the third choice in Braman's six-week hunt for a succes­sor to Marion Campbell, whom he fired less than a week before the end of the season. 
Braman first sought David Shula, 26-year-old son of Miami Dolphins Coach Don Shula, and an assistant to his dad with the Dolphins. Negotia­tions collapsed when young Shula help the punchless Eagles put points on the board. He had said he did not want a defensive specialist. 
Braman said he wasn't concerned that Ryan's status as a defensive coach would hurt his offensive ac­cumen. 
"He offers something to this game that is really unique. He's an in­novator. He's an individual who ap· proaches this game by attacking it. 
refused to accept a five-year option • He's changed the whole concept of 
on a five-year contract. 
Then came Jim Mora, highly successful coach ofthe United States Football League Baltimore Stars. Just when it seemed Mora would be the new coach, there was an unex­plained hitch. Mora on Tuesday was named head coach of the New Or­leans Saints. 
Braman said Ryan first caught his attention Dec. 1 in an article in the New York Times. The subsequent feat of the Bears shutting out two playoff opponents vaulted him into contention for the Eagles job. 
Ryan's selection was surprising since Braman had been seeking an offensive-minded coach who could defense and what you'll see in Philadelphia is a new concept of of­fense as well. 
"... I expect he (Ryan) will be the next Vince Lombardi ofthe National Football League," Braman said. 
Ryan became known for his "46" defense, a 5-1-5 set named after the number ofa former player. It was the formation that made the Bears the top defensive team in the league and crunched the New England Patriots in the Bears' 46-10 Super Bowl tri· umph. 
Ryan said the Eagles, who played a 3-4 under Campbell in posting a 7·9 record last season, would switch to the 46, and predicted it would take "35 minutes" to do it. 
APPboto 

Chicago Black Hawks goalte Bob Sauve (31) Black Hawk's Doug Wilson (24) tries to block. The grabs the puck tn tbe ttp ofhts glove to stop a shot Oilers won the game4-3. by Edmunton Oilers Mike Krusbelnyski (26) while 
AT&T Tournament still played in memory of Crosby despite change 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. · The name has changed. It's now the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. But it's still Crosby weather. 
Rain, wind and cold swept over the Monterey Peninsula Wednesday on.the eve of the new-old event. 
That squally, blustery weather, so familiar to the veteran touring pros and celebrity amateurs · some of whom have been playing here for three decades · is forecast to con­tinue through the end ofthe week. 
"We'll give the weather to AT&T," said Harry Crosby, son ofthe tourna­ment founder, the late Bing Crosby and his widow Kathryn. Harry is an investment banker and is playing as an amateur in the tournament that has been rocked by controversy. 
In a dispute with the official or· ganizers of the tournament · the Monterey Peninsula Golf Founda­tion . Kathryn withdrew the Crosby name from the event that has grown into one of the most celebrated on the PGA tour. 
"It's the same tournament, just a different name," said actor James 
Garner,  a  long-time amateur  par·  
ticipant.  "Nothing  else  has  
changed."  

The format remains the same: each of the 180 pros is paired with an amateur partner and they play one round on each of three courses before the field is cut for the final round Sunday. 
Among the touring pros there are 
Jack Nicklaus, Tom Watson, Lee Trevino, Johnny Miller, Ray Floyd, Fuzzy Zoeller, Curtis Strange and Lanny Wadkins, all long-time par· ticipants, and such relative new­comers as Masters champion Bernhard Langer of West Germany, British Open titleholder Sandy Lyle of Scotland, 1985 Crosby winner 
Mark  O'Meara  and  the  probable  
favorite, Hal Sut ton.  
In  addition  to  Garner,  the  

amateurs include a couple who have been competing here for more than 20 years, Clint Eastwood and Jack Lemmon, along with George C. Scott, Willie Mays and Tom Seaver. 
"The players still think ofit as 'the Crosby.' It's still a men::torial to the memory ofBing," Nicklaus said. 


Dr. To01 Dooley Awareness Week Thursday Jan. 30 at Center for Social Concerns 
4:00 Slide Presentation on Dr. Dooley 
8:00 Talk by Teresa Gallagher personal friend and co-worker of Dr. Dooley 
Come learn more aboutDr. Dooley's life and commitment others


Thursday, January 30, 1986-page 12 
\ 
\ 
AP Photo 
Newjersey Net's Albert King (55) drives to the basket as the Los Angeles Clipper's Cedric Maxwell ( 19) and Benoit Benjamin (00) attempt to block the scoring effort during NBA action Monday night. The Clippers defeated the Nets 103-98. 
MID -EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· v~,.ta,...,. ci ~at Dulwt FOODS 
SHAWEIUIA -liUGBDERA. BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS· FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 
• LEBANESE STYLE 
TH BEND 
SOU GYROS 
• 
Pita Sil4f~d Sdlldwichu 

• 
Delifhtful Pa1lrie1 • Turlli.oh Coif'~ 288-S639 


Tu~• • Sat 6.JQPM · 9:30PM COMPLETEC"ATERING FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES & BANQUETS 

1 Oi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
Be the hero this Thursday! 
Call DOMINO'S PIZZA® 
for Thursday's special -a 16·inch, single· topping pizza for only $7.99. Your friends will love it. 
Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from Domino's Pizza. Made to order and delivered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on Thursday, get a 16-inch, single-topping pizza for only $7.99. What a great way to get together with others to enjoy great pizza*! 
Just ask for Thursday's special. Available all day this Thursday ...only from Domino's Pizza. 
~~/"
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our dmers carry less than $20 00 No coupon necessary Just request thiS Thursday·s special 
~;v:;~:_~fa~l~~~~~-~:lied 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS~' 
~~::u., FREE. 
.---------~----------------~~ ---­
The Observer 
Thursday, january 30, 1986 -page 13 
Gipp was quite a gambler while at Notre Dame despite Rock's beliefs 

Associated Press 
At halftime of Notre Dame's game 
with Army in 1920, Coach Knute 
Rockne was exhorting the Fighting 
Irish to come from behind in one of 
his patented locker room harangues. 
One of the players wasn't 
responding to Rockne's theatrics 
and the coach admonished him, 
growling, "I don't suppose you have 
the slightest interest in this game." 
"You're wrong there, Rock. I've 
got S400 on this game and I don't 
intend to blow it," replied George 
Gipp. 
That tale appeared in the Decem· ber issue of Smithsonian, the monthly journal of the Smithsonian Institution. It became appropr)ate last Sunday when President Reagan said In an interview during the Super Bowl pregame show that Rockne once "threw a gambler out of his office one day bodily who had come to see him and was seeking informa­tion about who was going to win. He just hated the idea of gambling as· sociated with football." 
Reagan, ofcourse, played the role of Gipp in "The Notre Dame Story," a 1940 movie. 
NBC newsman Tom Brokaw noted that as much as S2 billion might be wagered on the game, most of it illegally, and asked the presi­dent if that bothered him. Reagan replied: 
"I wish that it could be without, because I think when it gets up to that kind of money then there is too much temptation to try and fix things. And, human nature being what it is, we know from past history 


Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. · The New England Patriots' drug controversy heated up yesterday with the naming of six alleged drug users. The team's player representative said the disclosure dooms its volun­tary testing plan and could lead to a strike. 
"A terrible injustice has been done with the naming ofthe alleged players," Brian Holloway told the Pittsburgh Press. "The idea that those names have come out does not mean that they have used drugs." 
The Boston Globe reported Wed­nesday that Raymond Clayborn, Tony Collins, Irving Fryar, Roland James, Kenneth Sims and Stephen Starring admitted to Coach Raymond Berry they had used drugs. 
"Some ofthose guys have been in a (rehabilitation) program and they're not on drugs any more," General Manager Patrick Sullivan said. 
Sullivan said he was called by • 
Utah 
continuedjrompage 16 
how they got out of the blocks," Ar­chibald stated. "They shot well and our kids got down. It rattled some of our players being here." 
'"Notre Dame was somehow upset after the North Carolina game and took it out on the Utes," he added. "We didn't show you how the•Uni­versity of Utah can play." 
Besides shooting well, the Irish used their large height advantage to qutrebound the Utes by a 46-32 mar­gin. Also, the height differential enabled Notre Dame to easily get the ball Inside for easy baskets and shoot uncontested from the outside. 
Voce agreed that Utah's lack of 

that sometimes they get away with 
that." 

The magazine story pointed out that Gipp, a minister's son, went to Notre Dame on a baseball scholar­ship at the age of 21 after spending the previous three years in construc­tion work and driving a taxi in his home town of Laurium, Mich. Besides playing in an amateur baseball league, the magazine said Gipp also excelled at pool, poker and dice. 
"Personally, he was totally untamed, a potential star to whom practice was a bore, discipline some­thing to be ignored," the article said. 
The late Ring Lardner wrote that Notre Dame had one formation and one signal: " ... have the team line up, pass the ball to Gipp and let him use his judgment." 
In 1919, Gipp and several teammates played for money in a football game at Rockford, Ill., but no one at Notre Dame found out. Gipp also picked up money by fre­quenting the pool halls of South Bend; a joint called Hullie and Mike's became his second home. At the Oliver and LaSalle hotels he took on some of the sharpest pool hustlers and card sharps on the Chicago cir­cuit. 
"I'm the finest freelance gambler ever to attend Notre Dame," Gipp once said. 
According to his roommate, Ar· thur "Dutch" Bergman. "nobody around South Bend could beat him at faro, shooting pool, billiards, poker or bridge. He studied the percentages in dice-rolling and could fade those bones in a way that had the professionals dizzy. At three-pocket pool he was the terrors ofthe ... parlors." 
Gipp's winning, however, helped put some of his friends through col­lege. 
"I've seen him win SSOO in a crap game and then spend his winnings buying meals for destitute families," Bergman said. "No wonder he was idolized by the South Bend townies." 
Bergman also recalled that Gipp ignored curfew, drank and smoked heavily and often stayed up all night carousing or playing cards. 
In 1920, Walter O'Keefe of the South Bend News-Times saw him stumble out of a hotel elevator the morning of the Purdue game "unshaven sleepy-eyed downright soggy. I gave him hell for staying up all night." 
That afternoon, Gipp rushed for 129 yards, including an 80-yard touchdown run. 
Betting by players was common in college football. Wagers often were made on the eve of a game when the two teams met for dinner. Players bet on their own team, or on them­selves as individuals. 
And after drawing Rockne's ire during that aforementioned halftime, Gipp piled up 38'5 yards in total offense, more than the entire Army team, as Notre Dame rallied to win 27·1 7. He didn't lose his S400. 
Six weeks later, Gipp was dead. 
Pneumonia and a streptococcus throat infection that developed after a cold had weakened his lean body. 
"George, it's tough to go," Rockne told to his 25-year-old star. 
Gipp looked up from his deathbed and whispered, "What's so tough about it?" 
Pats reveal drug users to dismay of Player Association's representitive 
Globe reporter Ron Borges, whose story included the six names. 
"He read me the names and he said, 'if I print those names are you going to stand there and deny it?' And I said, 'I wouldn't stand and deny it.' " Sullivan said. "I'm reluc­tant to do that but I'm also reluctant to be put in a position of not telling the truth." 
Holloway, the Patriots' union representative, said the source of the confirmation was not impor­tant. He was more concerned that the names were revealed. 
"I can guarantee you, with the release ofthose players' names, you have seen the end of the voluntary program with the Patriots," he said in Hawaii, where he will play in Sun­day's Pro Bowl. 
After losing the Super Bowl 46­10 to the Chicago Bears last Sunday, the Patriots voted Monday morning in New Orleans to become the first team to institute voluntary drug tes­ting. 
Holloway said confidentiality was one of the conditions ·for the program. Sullivan and Berry denied 
height (no starter over 6-8) helped the Irish both inside and outside. 
"We could pretty much turn around and shoot over them at will," Voce stated. "Their inside men weren't a factor on our shots." 
"We were able to run our offense, which is to feed it into the post and kick it back out to our shooters," Voce continued. "Plus, our outside shooters, like Scott Hicks and Sean Connor, took good shots and hit them." 
When the game turned into a rout many fans stayed in their seats just to see Nicgorski. The sophomore walk· on looked nervous as three free throw attempts hit the back of the rim and bounded away. 
Finally, Nicgorski rewarded the that, saying that even ifthey refused to comment, there was no guaran­tee that drug users' names would not be published. 
"I told the players it's a pos­sibility" that their names would become known, Berry said. "There's nothing I could do about that. I hoped they wouldn't but that was out of my hands." 
Doug Allen, secretary-treasurer of the Federation of Professional Athletes, said from the union office in Washington, "It's incredible to me that the Patriots breeched con­fidentiality. 
"As I understand it, the players had insisted on confidentiality. If that was one of the conditions, management has ignored the agree­ment." 
Allen's federation is an umbrella organization for player associations of the National Football League, United States Football League and Major Indoor Soccer League. 
"You can be assured that this thing is not over yet," Holloway told the Press. 
fans for their patience by taking a pass from Voce and easily canning a turn around jumper. 
The Irish moved their record to 
13· 3, but needed the confidence: 
boost as they head into a tough por· 
tion of their schedule. 
"We're just looking at a stretch of five games in ten days," Phelps stated. "We still have Marquette on Saturday, Maryland on Monday, and then at Dayton and at Syracuse. It's all still in front ofus. Tonight we just wanted to be able to shoot well, hit the boards and play hard." 
Even with many tough games ahead on the schedule, a fine perfor­mance against Utah must give the Irish hope as they work their way to the NCAA Tournament in March. 
The Observer Thursday, January 30, 1986 -page 14 
Belles basketball uses stiff defense in consistent effort against Goshen 
By.Jll.L SARBENOFF 
Sports Writer 
On Tuesday night, the Saint Mary's basketball team improved their record to 6-7 by defeating Gos­hen College, 61-57, at Angela Ath­letic Facility. In an earlier match-up this season, Goshen won by a 30 point margin. 
The Belles took an early 2-0 lead offa lay-up by junior guard Kris Pan­telleria. Twice in the first half, the Belles had a five point lead, 15-1 0 and 17-12. Goshen overcame the deficit to take a 25-23 lead with un­der four minutes left in the half. 
Saint Mary's fought back and recaptured the lead on consecutive baskets by Laura Danch and Beth Kreber. The College went into half­time with a slim 27-26lead. 
In the second half, Saint Mary's again got the tip-off, but they turned the ball over to Goshen, who then proceeded to jump to a 28-27 lead. For the few minutes, the lead switched hands several times. The Belles gained back momentum on a rebound by Kreber. 
Kreher then proceeded to take the ball down court and make three consecutive baskets. The score was now 37-30 in favor of Saint Mary's. Throughout the rest ofthe game, the Belles' defense played tough and the offense was aggressive. 
With 1:1 5 left in the game, Gos­hen pulled the margin to-within two points at 55-53. The Belles never let up, however, and with 23 seconds left in the game, Pantelleria made two free throws to give her team a 61-55 advantage. 
Goshen scored on a last second basket, but it was too little, too late. 
The key to the Belles' success, ac­cording to Coach Woods, was their ability to get the important shots when it counted. 
"Getting a couple baskets in the end when we needed them the most (was the key). I also felt we played an excellence defense," said the coach. 
Woods went on to comment about his team's improvement throughout the season. 
"Our girls have played well in the last seven or eight games. I've been proud of the improvement and togetherness of the team. However, we have not reached our potential yet. We have room for improve­ment," added Woods. 
Pantelleria also felt the Belles' defense was instrumental in the vic­tory. In addition, she cited that not committing many fouls was another important aspect in winning. 
"Ifwe don't foul we'll win because we make more field goals than the other team," Pantelleria said. 
Pantelleria went on to say that she felt her team should be over .500 by the end ofthe season. 
"I think it's realistic to say we can finish above the .500 mark. The way I figure it, we could end up 11-7." 
Teammate Tammye Radke thought the Belles' defense has im­proved considerably throughout the season, as did the players' con­fidence in the team. 
"I think everyone's gained more confidence in themselves and as a whole (team). The freshmen have helped us a lot. The contribution from the bench has helped also," said Radke. 
In Tuesday's game, several players put in outstanding performances. Defensively, sophomore guard Radke had eight rebounds, as did Kreher. Top scoring honors also went to Kreher, who led the Belles with 22 points, and Radke who had 20 points. Radke, in addition, con­tributed eight assists. Pantelleria had seven. 
The Belles will be squaring off again on Saturday at St. Francis Col­lege in Fort Wayne. However', neit­her team has played each other before, so there might be a few surprises in store for Coach Wood and the Belles. 

Alumni handles Sorin in inter hall hockey, Zahm defeats Cavanaugh 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
In interhall hockey action Tues­day night in the ACC was a night that Sorin would like to soon forget. It was apparent from the start that this one was your classic mismatch as Alumni ( 3-0) went on to overwhelm Sorin in every phase of the game as proven by its 13-1 victory. 
Sorin decided that a checking style game was more to its liking. Sorin players didn't seem to mind the humiliation, and with their fans cheering them on, they decided to play the man instead ofthe puck. On several occasions the action became heated as Alumni players began to take exception to Sorin's tough-guy tactics. 
However, when it came to playing 
hockey, Alumni showed no mercy as 
it let fly with all its weapons. Pat 
Hogan and Jim Vizzini were the 
catalysts as each one scored the hat 
trick. 
The best goal ofthe night, though, 
belonged to Sorin's Chris Kyhl as he 
blasted a shot from the red line that 
caught Alumni's goaltender nap­ping. It was the lone bright spot for winless Sorin as the game clearly belonged to Alumni. 
Alumni captain John Kaltenmark knows that the tough part of the season is yet to play. "We have been using our first three games as a tuneup for our upcoming games. Tonight we played good position hockey, and let Sorin have fun playing their brand of hockey," said Kaltenmark. 
In Tuesday's second game, the Rabid Bats of Zahm handled Carroll fairly easy as they won, 7-1. Zahm ( 2­
1) put the game away early as they raced to an insurmountable lead. Carroll ( 2-1 ) could only comes as close as 3-1 before Zahm was able to pull further ahead. Charlie Hackett had two goals, as did Tom Keating, including a short-handed goal. 
The result was one that Coach AI Parkin and his Bats had to have as Zahm vies for a playoff berth. "Our game next week against Alumni will be a tough challenge for us, said Parkin. "Ifwe can win next week, we should be in good position to make the playoffs. We have been improv­ing steadily in certain areas of our game which have been giving us problems." 
The outcome left both Zahm and Carroll one game behind Alumni and Pangborn in the Corrigan League race. 
On Monday night Off-Campus was surprised by Morrissey as OC was able to play the pre-season favorite to a 3-3 tie. Chuck Curley had two goals and Tim O'Brien scored once for Morrissey ( 0-2-1). 
"We are happy that we got the tie, but we should have won (because) we outhustled them. Our goaltend­ing was good enough to keep us in the game. This game should give us a boost for the remainder of the season," said Morrissey coach Tom Murphy. 
In other rink action, Cavanaugh/Howard (2-0) edged Holy Cross/St. Ed's (1-2) by a 3-2 margin. Pangborn ( 3-0) kept pace with Alumni as they blanked Stan­ford ( 0-3 ), 6-0. 
Fisher ( 1-2) won its first game over Keenan ( 1-2) by a 4-1 margin. Cavanaugh/Howard's win put them in a tie with Grace for the top spot in the Krause League. 



lbc Obsrrvcr/Petc Laches 
The Saint Mary's basketball team is shown here in action in its victory against Goshen College, 61-57. The Belles now stand at 6-7 and are striving tofinish the season over the .500 mark. 
Your plasma makes a difference. 
HiJ~ ~ Q;).JO{\ 
aiJOu( I(-yOul" 
oonatoo mate\ a Ooffl!fenc:e Tr. Oolll!fenc:e De­tween aDov leOO· 1"9 a I""O'mal. actove ~le a DeolQ an onvilloO TilEY oovs na..e al;j()()(J Gill'~ c.111e<lllemO(llloia. wnocn SOTl!liV means tnat tne.t l;j()()(J OIMOI ClOt 0V o("lell Ttoev prevoOUIIv leO i prettv V"-"!l!ffa ~le !JeCaule rtoev COUICI ()leeO 10 oearn lrom a "'"" I'"IU'v Toaav ttoev can oe rrearea Wltn i ciOttf"Q factor rnar rneor o..n tloOoeS oo nor proOo.Jce 
And that dotting faCtor Is taken frOm the plaSma you dOnate. 
HOw much plasma 
IS needed? A101 f<lr exarnole. one 
11111 of piWna ~ 11!\s !~ i U!iKPOOr1fl,j ol !r.! CIO!If"Q factor ~need. 10 vn. c.... ­tr.! need tor ~ge ~of p&wna IVIt for tero­l)hllan N>Ornousana. ot 1111rs of p&wna ate useo 
"'no5Ptalland 
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
PlaVna 1\ tne loQuoO on wnocn l;j()()(J cellS ille tran\ DOHfG AWoxomaretv toalf 01 01000 ~ DloW'Ia Tne l;j()()(J c~ ille \e~Watea lrom vour l)laYTla at tne aoror center ov a proce\s catleO ~es.s ano rerurnea ro vour ooa, Tne D~aSma ra~~ en lrom vour l;j()()(J 1\ aoour 9N """"'aos ar>J wdtl!f. most of rne remaonoer oS proreons 11 " ti"E'It' pro· tf'V'l\ tnat ate t.r:.eo to 
CashForYour donation 
WORlDWIDE DE.MAND FOR PlASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation is important. so important that we'll pay $7.00 for your first donation and $9.00 if you donate a second time within tht: some ... ····~calendar week. In addition, if you meet the physical requirements you'll be given o FREE physical and $60.00 worth of FREE Lob Tests. 
Open. WED., FRI., SAT., 9:00-5:00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Lincolnway West, South Bend 


~c:tcJIC3L~--------------------------------------Th--u-rs_d_~_,_Ja_n_u_~__
3_0_,1_9_8_6_-_P_ag•e-l_S 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Universal Press Syndicate
t.IINPll M:~ $(/f'ffl( .":. 
511'0,/ fJNRrCIEP ffllJ, !'f('(;ff~Of? ...... 
IT'5 
7

fROM 7H€ JAWS Llur:NJI MK. IIN/J ~. HO~t.t . 
&ll.U6AN'S 

Of flfTC/1 r~. 
15li/NP. 
....______

\\/ 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Conflict  
6 Victory symbol  
11 Biting  
13 Baby shoes  
15 Football  
penalty  
16 Near the coast  
17 Corolla part  
18 Psychedelic  
drug  
20 Doctrine  
21 Boot country  
23 Gent  
24 Market  
27 Outflow  
29 Rebuff  
33 More compact  
35 Snare  
37 Gr. letter  
38 Fuss  
39 Theater bingo  
41 Swiss river  
42 Musical Brown  
43 Verse  
44 Victimize  
46 Sketched  
48 "Swan Lake" character  ~ 1986 Tribune Media Semces, Inc. All Rights Reserved  1/2/86  
50 Ail  
51 Actor Linden  12 Prison rooms  
53 Coffee cup  13 Offer  
holders  14 Tennis unit  
55 Music group  19 Put into order  
58 Enroll: abbr.  22 Remove heat  
59 Quercina seed  from  
63 Highway exit  23 Roam about  
65 Canadian  24 Burnwith  
province  liquid  
67 Kept on hand 68 Fortuna taller  25 Senior 26 Free  
69 Lieu  28 Noun suffix  
70 Bemuse  30 Shows the way  
31 In the least  
DOWN  32 Gay­ 
1 Bistro  34 Sixth sense  
2 Singer Lorna  36 Luau food  
3 Attacks  40 Flushed  
4 Long pole  45 Throw away  
5 Concealed  47 From what  1/2186 
6 Offspring  place  
7-Rica  49 Nigerian port  
8 Sparta's rival  52 Okla. town 56 Slashes 61 Goup  
9 Author Uris  54 Destined 57 Run 62 D igits: abbr.  
10 "-Goriot"  55 Certain 58 Address abbr. 64 Nourished  
11 Policeman  school: abbr. 60 Russ. city 66 Sch.gp.  

Campus 

•4:00 
P.M. -Slide Presentadon, on Dr. Tom Dooley, Center for Social Concerns Building 

•4:30 
P.M. -Change of Command Ceremony, for Midshipman Battalion, Stepan Center 

•4:30 
P.M. -Mathemadcal Colloquium, Prof. Loring Tu, Johns-Hopkins University, Room 226 Computer Center-Math Building 

•6:30 
P.M. -Lecture, "Women in the Work Place," Kathy Miller, Recruiter and Special Projects Coordinator, for Gantos, Haggar Col­lege Center 


•7:00 
P.M. -Meeting, Fellowship of Christian Athletes, Flanner Hall Commoner Room 

•7:00 
P.M. -Thursday Night FUm Series, "The Goldrush," Center for Social Concerns Building 

•8:00 
P.M. -Lecture, Teresa Gallagher, Dr. Tom Dooley's former personal secretary, co· worker and chairwoman ofthe Board for Tom Dooley Heritage, Social Concerns Auditorium 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Roast Breast ofTurkey Beef Stuffed Peppers Hungarian Noodle Bake Cheese Steak Sandwich 
TV Tonight 
6:30P.M. 16 NBC Nightly News 
22 CBS Evening News 

28 ABC World News Tonight 7:00P.M. 16 MASH 22 Th.ree's Company 28 Jeopardy 
7:30P.M. 16 Barney Miller 
22 WKRP In Cincinnati 
28 VVheelofFortune 8:00P.M. 16 The Cosby Show 
22 Magnum, PI 

28 Ripley's Believe It Or Not 
28  Inside  Washington  With judy  
Woodruff  
8:30P.M.  16  Family Tics  
46  John Ankerbcrg  
9:00P.M.  16  Cbcers  
22  Si~on & Simon  
28  The Colby's  

34 Mystery: "The Moving Finger" 46 LcscaAllve 
Saint Mary's Veal Parmesan Turkey Pot Pie Cheese and Broccoli Potato 
9:30P.M. 10:00P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:00A.M. 12:30A.M. 1:30A.M. 
Sweet and Sour Fish 
16  Night Court  
16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Heritage: "Civilization and the  
Jews"  
46  Manna for Modern Man  
16  NcwsCenter t 6  
22  Eyewitness News  
28  Ncwswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
16  Tonight Show  
22  Nightheat  -"From HeU to Vic­ 
tory"  
28  ABC News Nlghtllne  
34  Star Trek  
28  Eye on Hollywood  
16  David Letterman  
16  At the Movies  


S~orts 
Notre Dame dominates Utah with fine shooting and height advantage 
ByNICK SCHRANTZ vened on only 32 percent of their and Gary Voce each chipped in 11 Sports Writer attempts from the field. points, while Tim Kempton added After the game, Phelps was happy 1 0 and Sean Connor contributed 
Notre Dame basketball coach Dig­with the way his team rebounded eight. ger Phelps predicted that his squad from Sunday's loss and dominated In all, the Irish reserves poured in was "teady to drill somebody" com­the action. • 48 points in I03 minutes of play, as ing off their loss to top ranked North "We just played very well the Notre Dame attack didn't suffer Carolina. Phelps proved prophetic tonight," Phelps explained. when the starters went to the bench. as the Fighting Irish destroyed the "Tonight's performance is a com-Utah guard Kelvin Upshaw led all . University of Utah by a 94-64 score bination of how good we can be if scorers with 17 points, while last night at the ACC. we play with confidence." Manuel Hendrix and Jerry Stroman 
The outcome of the game was "We felt coming in, after seeing each added 12. never in doubt as the Irish quickly Utah on tape several times, that they The Irish defense completely shut jumped out toleadsof8-2 and 32-16 were a strong team," Phelps con-down Stroman, who entered the 
I on therway to a 4 3-28 halftime lead. tinued. "Coming off the loss to game as the Utes' leading scorer at 
I Notre Dame came out just as Nonh Carolina, our intensity and 18 points a game. Royal and Jim 
I strong in the second half and soon concentration was a key. We just Dolan received the assignment of 
~ 
had a 30 paint lead with 10 minutes wanted to go out and play man-to-guarding the dangerous forward, 
left to play. man the entire game, box out well and the pair forced Stroman into 
r 
With the game effectively over, and get into our running game." taking many bad shots on his war to Phelps cleared his bench and "I think Utah caught us at the 5-of-21 shooting. watched as his substitutes played wrong time and that they're a better "We did nothing special for 
well and maintained the 30 point team than they showed tonight," Stroman," Phelps added. "I think we
f 
lead on the strength of a Steve Nic­Phelps concluded. studied him well on the tapes. We 
gorski basket with 11 seconds left. The large Irish lead enabled just decided to shut someone down, 
The Irish never let the Utes into Phelps to give everyone a good deal and it was Royal and Dolan all night." the game as they shot 75 percent ofplaying time. Donald Royal led the Utah coach Lynn Archibald ad­( 18-of-24) from the floor in the first way with 24 minutes ofplaying time, dmitted that the large ACC crowd half, and followed that up with 20-of-while eight others saw at least 15 and Irish home coun advantage at­36 shooting after intermission to minutes ofaction. fected his team's play. finish the game at 63 percent. Scott Hicks and Ken Barlow each "I thought one of the keys was 
On the other hand, Utah couldn't poured in 14 points to pace the get their shots to fall as they con-balanced Irish scoring attack. Royal see UTAH, page 13 
NDwomen gain another NSC victory 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basket­ball team continued its Nonh Star Conference success this season by destoying Butler University 91-40 last night. The Irish recorded its 16th consecutive conference win to raise its record to 4-0 in the NSC and 11-6 overall. 
The high scorer for Notre Dame was once again senior forward Trena Keys who had 27 points. Sophmore center Sandy Botham netted 21 points, while sophmore point guard Mary Gavin, junior forward Lavetta Willis, and senior forward Lynn Eb­ben each scored eight points for the Irish. 
"We got balanced scoring from 
Keys, Botham, and Ebben and some 1be Obecrvcr/Hannn Hacker outside production from Mary Notre Dame pointguard Mary Gavin brings the ball up thefluor tonight," said Head Coach Mary DiS­in earlier action this season. The Irish destroyed Butler University tanislao. last nightatIndianapolis, 9 I -40. 


Thursday,January 30, 1986-page 16 

The Observer/Hannes Hacker 
Notre Dameforward Matt Beeuwsaert (21) positions himselffor an inside shot in last night's resounding victory against the Uni­versity ofUtah, 94-64.juniorguardScott Hicks andseniorforward Ken Barlow led the Irish with 14 points each. Nick Schrantz details the game at left. 
North Star Conference cuts team membership 
Special to the Observer Next year's North Star Con­North Star Conference President ference membership will include 
R. Elaine Dreidame announced active members: the University of recently that the three-year-old Dayton, DePaul University, Mar­Division I women's athletic league quuette University, and Notre will continue to exist next season Dame, along with associate member with a smaller membership and new Valparaiso University. All five in­championship format. stitutions hold similar status in the 
Notre Dame has elected to remain current NSC lineup. part ofthe conference after its future The four active members was called into question when five (Dayton, DePaul, Marquette and current full-time member institu­Notre Dame) will compete in a tions announced last August their in· double, round-robin, regular-season tentions to leave the conference. schedule to determine the league's 
These institutions are Butler basketball champion. University, the Uviversity of Detroit, the University of Evansville, Loyola The four active members and as­University of Chicago, and Xavier sociate member Valparaiso will host University. These institutions will season-ending invitationals in cross bring their women's athletic country, tennis, softball and vol· programs under Midwestern Col­leyball. Dreidame stated that legiate Conference jurisdiction. Cleveland State University, the Uni­
Dreidame said the decision was versity of Illinois at Chicago, and made by university officials at the Northern Illinois University will be recent NCAA Convention held in invited to paticipate in those com­New Orleans. petitions. 
Notre Dame sees no advantage in conference 
Saturday the Notre Dame men's basketball team faces Marquette University at the ACC. This will be Notre Dame's second game of the year against one of the Mid­west's great independents, who for the second year in a row are participating in a double round-robin regular­season schedule with the Irish. 
Marquette, Dayton, DePaul and Notre Dame again will play each other twice this season. Last year, the Irish proved to be the best among the nation's independents, finishing with a 21-9 record overall and a 4-2 mark in the round-robin setup. 
Dayton and DePaul both finished 19-10 (3-3 in the round robin), while Marquette ended up 20-1 1 ( 2-4 ). 
"We had the best record when it was over, but it was close all the way between the four independents," said Irish head coach Digger Phelps. "I think all 12 games bet­ween the four teams were sellouts, and that really helped create enthusiasm for the matchups. 
"The games were all real battles, the same way it is for Georgetown, St. John's, Villanova and Syracuse in the Big East." 
In the first year ofthe double round-robin format, Notre Dame, Dayton and DePaul all made the NCAA Tournament. Marquette participated in the NIT, and many even felt that the Warriors might have been unjustly neglected by the NCAA selection committee. 

Eric Scheuermann 
Assistant Sports Editor 

In fact, the round-robin format was such a great success in its first year that DePaul, Dayton and Marquette all pushed for the formation ofa formal conference at the end of last year. Notre Dame held out in favor of its indepen­dent status, and the simple round-robin concept was con­tinued. 
But the speculation continues over whether the Midwest independents will need to form a conference in the near future. There has been talk ofgetting some other Midwestern Catholic schools to form a conference with the four mentioned above, but as yet this talk is not even close to becoming reality. 
"It has to come," NBC announcer AI McGuire recently told the Marquette Tribune. "There is no way they (the four major Midwest independents) can procrastinate any longer." 
"The key team is Notre Dame," continued McGuire, who already refers to the linking ofthe four independents as the Vatican Conference. "I did ask Digger Phelps the other day if it would happen before 1990 and he didn't think so. But they need a conference." 
Notre Dame seems to differ in its thinking, and rightly so. 
A healthy conference setting u~ually brings three major benefits. First, it aids in postseason tournament selection. For example, the fourth and fifth place teams in the Big East are selected for postseason play mainly on the strength of their conference. Astrong conference can improve televi­sion revenues, and can also bring increased visibility. This increased visibility helps a team in its ability to recruit and to schedule strong, out-of-conference teams. 
But these arguments fail in the case of Notre Dame, at least at this point in time. The linking of the four indepen­dents in the round-robin proved last year to accomplis1 the first objective of improved credibility for postseason selection -witness the fact that three of the four made the NCAAs. 
Notre Dame has a great deal of visibility without a con­ference, and pulls in enough revenue from independently negotiated television contracts. The Irish, as a result ofthis visibility, are able to schedule strong teams, even in the middle of their respective conference seasons · witness 
see IRISH, page 10 






