
Chemical warfare -page 4 

VOL. XXI. NO. 5 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
a 

Bomb detonation injures 17 in latest apartheid unrest 
Associated Press The bomb demolished the front windows of a Pick-n-Pay 
JOHANNESBURG, South store in the Montclair shop­Africa. -A bomb left at the ping center and tore a hole parcel counter yesterday blew in the ceiling. said Vernon out the front of a store in a Mitchell, general manager of middle-class white suburb of · the chain of budget depart­
Durban. Police said 18 blacks and whites were injured, in­cluding a 3-year-old ~irl. 
The whole place was filled with smoke within minutes, according to Larry McDonald, a pharmacist. He described the scene as chaos, and said people were screaming and running everywhere. 
Dr. John Keenan, acting chief of emergency services for Natal province, said the 3­year-old white child and four 
~ 
other people were seriously 
wounded. The government

'(_
'·,.''·~ and witnesses said the 
,
casualties were I 2 employees ' and six customers. 
~ 

... It was the ninth bombing Joe VItacco since the government im­
We must be in the front row... posed a nationwide state of 
emergency June 12 in an at­Senior ticket distribution traditionally signals line which began early Sunday morning. 
tempt to quell racial unrest cookouts and sleeping bags at the ACC and Those students who spent the night" were 
and started arrestingthis year was no exception. Seniors Jay Vos­rewarded, however, with an early-morning 
thousands of people without burgh and Molly Meyer hold their place in a visit yesterday from Coach Holtz. 
charges. 

Soviet passenger liner sinks; casualties untold 
Associated Press Search and rescue opera­sinking of a Soviet passenger and that there has been loss tions continued last night. liner in seven months. of life. MOSCOW · A 61-year-old about 20 hours after the ship It did not say how many
The official announce­

Soviet ship hig enough to went down, according to offi­people were aboard, how
ment, distributed by the Tass 

carry at least 870 passengers cials in the Black Sea ports of many were dead, if any
news agency, said only that

collided with a freighter at Odessa and Novorossiysk. foreigners were among the
the 17,053-ton Admiral Nak­

night in the Black Sea and A naval Ministry official said passengers or what route the
himov collided with a cargo

sank with a loss of lives, of­by telephone late yesterday ship was following.
ship not far from Novoros­

ficials said yesterday. They that the freighter remained Lloyds Registry of Ships,
siysk and sank on the night

dicl not give a casualty figure. anoat. He woulcl not answer published in London, says
of Aug. 31.

Foreign radio monitors other questions. the ship had berths for 870 said they did not hear a Soviet media carried only Rescue measures have passengers. A Soviet citizen distress signal after the colli­a brief statement from the been taken, the official news who sailed on it in 1971 said sion between the passenger Communist Party Central agency said. It also said that many other fourth-class pas­ship and Soviet freighter Sun­Committee and Soviet gov­necessary assistance is being sengers customarily slept on day night. ernment. It was the second rendered to those affected the uppermost of its decks. 

Anti-Reagan rhetoric marks Gadhafi speech 
Associated Press coup that brought him to The crowd shouted, "When The Soviets have supplied power. you call us, o commander, we Libya with two frigates, MiG TRIPOLI, Libya-Moammar As the crowd held aloft his will leap into the fire! " jet fighters and militaryGadhafi celebrated his 17th portrait and applauded, the 
transport planes to replaceFlanked by Soviet officials,anniversary as Libya's leader 44-year-old colonel gestured losses from U.S. attacks inGadhafi later reviewed a 90­
yesterday by deriding Presi­with a silver pointer as he the Gulfof Sidra in March and
minute military parade by

dent Reagan and praising So­vowed to recruit an army from on Tripoli and Benghazi in
more than 18,000 soldiersviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­Central America, Africa and April.

and Soviet-made tanks, SA-5hev, saying the Libyans and Asia if the United States didn't surface-to-air missiles and

Russians share common in­cease what he called its con­This anti-American out­
Scud ground-to-ground mis­

terests. frontational policies. burst by Gadhafi came after
siles.

"If Reagan does not stop his four months of silence follow­"Reagan is a madman, stupidities,I will form an in­Gadhafi mixed insults to ing the U.S. air raid on April 
physically and psychologi­ternational army to fight Reagan and criticism of U.S. 15, when sites hit included cally sick,''Gadhafi told a flag­America everywhere, and I policy in his speech with com­his home in Tripoli. An waving crowd of 5, 000 in am sure that in a few years pliments for Moscow, which adopted baby daughter was Green Square, gathered to the world will be rid of this he said stood by its respon­one those killed in the air hail the Sept. I, 1969 military new Nazi empire,'' he said. sibilities toward Libya. strikes. 
ment stores. 
He said the bomb was deposited at the counter where customers leave their their bags and packages while shopping. The counter and a nearby cigarette and candy kiosk were destroyed. 

Government spokesmen said one of those seriously in­jured was the cigarette seller, Monica Strydom, who had wounds on her head and hands. 
Two of the previous bom­bings occurred in Durban. Eight people have been killed and 145 wounded in the nine explosions, the last of which was Aug. 2 in Walvis Bay on the Atlantic coast. 
No one has claimed re­sponsibility for any of the at­tacks, but the government blames guerrillas of the African National Congress. 
Corby's assets sold to brothers 
MARILYN BENCHIK Copy Editor 
The assets of CTI, Inc., the parent corporation of Corby Tavern, are being sold to Thomas and Robert Przybylinski for $75,000, according to James Brad­ley, the attorney represent­ing the corporation. 
The ruling that allows CTI to sell these assets was determined in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in South Bend on Friday. 
The sale of the assets was finalized in order to in­clude the sale of the Alco­hol and Beverage Permit. said Bradley. 
Before the Przybylinski brothers can set up the restaurant-tavern busi­ness, they need a variance that will allow them to by­pass a city ordinance which prohibits two alcohol es­tablishments to operate within 1000 feet of each other. 

-------~ -------­

Tuesday, September 2, 1986 -page 2 
COTH 375 Rehearsal and Performance  Chamber Music  
a one act play by Ar1bur Kopit  directed by Roberta N. Rude  
September 1 & 2 7:30-10:30 pm  For scripts and additional  
Little Theatre ­ Saint Mary's College  information call the  
CoTh office  284-4640  

COTH 243 Dance Repertory /Performance Workshop Prof. Dieckgrafe 
September 1 & 2 7:00 -9:00 pm For more information call the dane Regina Hall Dance Studio office 284-4643-107 Moreau Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College 
FASHION FAIR'S PASSION FOR BEAUTY IYI COLOR COLLECTION II ONLY 12.50 WITH ANY MilliON FAIR PURCHASE Fashion Fair has ten new eye color shades: sterling slate, winter white, royal blue, safari green, bold bordeaux, mauve mink, violet velour, smoked salmon, autumn haze and lavish lavender. All in a sleek mirrored compad with apflicators plus a special size o electric blue mascara. For unforgettable eyes, the PASSION FOR BEAUTY EYE COLOR COLLECTION 11-12.50 with any Fashion Fair purchase. For your purchase, Perfect finish makeup, 11.00. (0.121), Scottsdale Mall and Univenity Park. Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park today, 10 to 9. 
Interested? Coli Lieutenant Flanagan or Lieutenant McKnight 239-6264 



Tuesday, September 2, 1986-page 3
The Observer 

Senate sets priorities on campus availability 
DAVID LEE aid. The present policy gives News Staff aid on a need basis only, also requiring that the student be 
Increased student space a Notre Dame scholar. control was marked as the top Along with the perennial prioritry of the Student Sen­issue of parietals, senators ate for this school year in a gave priority to coed dorms. meeting last night. They noted that Flanner and 
Senators criticized the Grace Halls are ideally suited closing of campus buildings, for that purpose due to the such as Lafortune, as early halls having two wings. as midnight, and hoped to ex­More attention, however, tend the hours. was focused on the lack of 
I have a major problem on-campus housing facilities, with that (buildings closing with Senator Mike Jaeger l early), said Student Body noting that there are many Vice-President Don Mon­people offcampus who would I tanaro. If you are spending like to be on campus. ., l 
Career moves 
millions of dollars on a stu­Committees were estab­
Seniors Mike Stockrahm and Keith Hummel on-campus interviews. Today is the last day ""' 
dent activity center, its lished for the top five issuesface the realities of senior year as they reg-for registration. 
ridiculous to keep it closed.' on the Student Senateister with Career and Placement Services for 
The Senate's number two agenda. Other issues will be priority was a dearth of Uni­worked on, but in a prioritized

ND fundraising drive ranked 18th 
versity liability at student­manner, according to Senior 
organized events. One pro­Class President David Miklos. COLLEEN CLYNESE ard Conklin, director ofpublic The total, which set a new posal included an idea for a Miklos added that students Staff reporter relations and information, 
school record, was 18th in a dorm insurance program. are encouraged to join the earlier this summer. 
list led by Harvard ($145.6 Third on the agenda was committees, and to contact The Council for Financial expanding student financial the committee chairmen.
million), Stanford ($125.5The University raised $33.8

Aid to Education (CFAE) has million), and Columbia
million in 1984-85, a figure

recently named the University ($93.4 million). The funds
that exceeds that of any insti­

of Notre Dame as 18th among were raised from voluntary
private universities in the tution ofhigher learning in In­amount of money raised in diana and any Catholic col­support from individuals, 1984-85, according to a lege or university in the foundations, and corpora­press release given by Rich-nation. tions. 

l
TRY O!iH 
'IE\\' 
~liN I BAH-B-Q '>AND\\ICIJI<, 
l 
ON~Y i I 
Baby Back Ribs, lJ4 Slab .............. !?.~;~-8!.................4. 95 Shrimp Basket..............................!!!.:~~!.................5.95

~-?_!j 
. T• '!2Lb. NoBones 4 95
TenderIo1n tps...................................................... . 
All Of The Above Includes French Fries And Extra Sauce 

i----------SANDWICHES-----------1 
1 
I 
Pork BBQ .................... 69¢ or 1.65 
Smoked Sausage .................. 1.95 : I Beef BBQ .................... 69¢ or 1.65 
Chicken Salad ....................... 1.95 1 Chicken BBQ .............. 69t or 1.65 
Fish Filet ................................!.65 
LUNCH COMBINATION ServedAIIDay Any BBQ sandwich or 4 I<ibs or Chicken Breast 
r#.~W~IIII::;;II1 
with choice of any two small side orders & small beverage 2.95
§I . BAHBEQll[ !!i '"""N '""'"""" !!i -----DINNER COMBINATIONS
"''\\ll'\1:·1'1'' I -------t 
·"''' ..'l• ~ 
177-.,.o, 1 1
I n w·.,. !'t·H.,. cm•1•o., § /2 Chicken BBQ.~·····················~~~~~...................... 6. 95 Slab Baby Back Ribs ........... ~~~!!'~:l~~~'::.~ ............... .16. 95 
~ soeOFF ~ 
112Siab Baby Back Ribs ....... !!~.~!~~-~~!..................8. 95 
!!i ANY ~ I LUNCH I Tenderloin Tips ....................................................... 6.95
I COMBINATION I 
11. Sl b B b B k R"b (7 Ribs) Serves 1 6 95 
!!iLGOOD THRU 9-29-86J i'4 a a y ac 1 s......................................... . 
Wlllllllllll""' All Dinner Combllt atlonslnclude Combread Muffins, French Fries and Choice of Two Side Orders. 
WIIIIIIII1111-------SIDE ORDERS----....,.-----;
FATS !!i BARBEQUE !!i Cornbread Muffins 
1636 N. IRONWOOD I 504 Applesauce 50c!or95¢ 
iRF.T\~"EF~ ~PI~l1:"\ I ColeSlaw 50¢or95¢ 
&RT ••ll I Baked Beans 50¢or95¢
Corn on the Cob 75¢
177·0607 I Fruit Salad 50¢or95¢
French Fries 
CL.IP"NSAt'ECOfiP()fV I 75¢ 
Macaroni Salad 50¢or95¢Potato Salad 
50¢or95¢ 
' SJSOOFF II 
------~---DESSERTS------------~ 
D~~~R Peach, Apple, or Cherry Cobbler 1.55 
G~~!~!~! OPEN 7DAYS 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------J 




Fat's Barbeque 
1636 N.lronwood (between Edison & Rt. 23) 277-0607 ENTREES 1/2 BBQ Chicken ..........................~=-~~?.~! ..............4.75 Ch• k B t BBQ (8ozBreast) 1 80
tc en reas . . . ........... ....... .... .................... . k w· BBQ (lO Wings) 1 80
Chtc. en tngs ....... ... ... ........ .. . ..........•.. .....•.. . Baby Back Ribs, Slab .................. !~-~~~~~.............. 13.95 
1 

Baby Back Ribs, 1/2 Slab .............. (.1.~~~~~~ ••••••••••••••••6.95 
Corrections 
An article about the Col­
lege of Business Adminis­An article in the Of Inter­tration's dean on the front est section in yesterday's page of yesterday's Obser­Observer was incorrect. ver was incorrectly noted Students may in fact park as being a Special to The properly-registered cars in Observer. Laura Coty, a the parking lot surround­member of the Observer ing Notre Dame Stadium. 
news staff, wrote the story. 

Tuesday, September 2, 1986 -page 4
The Observer 

Environmentalist group plans to sue Pentagon in dispute 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -An environ­mental activist group is pre­paring to sue the Pentagon to stop defensive biological war­fare research while simulta­neously establishing a fund to encourage scientists to dis­close evidence of illegal ex­periments. 
The Foundation on Eco­nomic Trends, successful in a similar suit against the Army, also has distributed a position paper to officials from more than 55 foreign governments, suggesting ways to strengthen a 1972 in­ternational accord banning the pursuit of biological weapons. 
Delegates from more than I 00 countries are scheduled to meet in Geneva next week to review the 1972 accord. 
The postion paper disputes the recently outlined position of the Reagan administration on the 1972 Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention. The position of the adminis­tration is that the convention must be recognized as criti­cally deficient and unfixable. 
The Washington-based re­search organization has focused its studies in recent years on developments in bi­ological and genetic engi­neering. The group describes itself as a clearinghouse for public information on the po­litical, economic and environ­mental implications of such research. 
The lawsuit against the Pentagon, a copy of which was provided to reporters in advance of its filing in U.S. District Court today, seeks to stop all Defense Department research aimed at identifying potential defenses against bi­ological weapons. 
Under the 1972 agree­ment, the United States, So­viet Union and more than I00 other countries have agreed not to develop toxic biologi­cal agents for offensive pur­poses. But the accord does not prohibit defensive re­search. 
The foundation's suit asserts that the Defense De­partment has expanded de­fensive research to sucll a point that it now falls under the National Environmental Policy Act, meaning environ­mental impact studies must be performed. 
It requests both prelimi­nary anti permanent injunc­tions against continued re­search until environmental impact studies are con­ducted. 
r 
I 
r r t 


COMPLIMENTS OF WORLD BAZAAR 
CHECK YOUR WHITE PAGES FOR THE LOCATION OF THE WORLD BAZAAR STORE NEAR YOU! 
©1986 Munford, Inc. 
~~------------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 2, 1986 • page 5 

Those interested in auditioning for Shenanigans who did not make the meeting should contact Ken Dice at 2309 or Julie Grantham at 3735 
BY TONIGHT. 

CLASSOF'87 


SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGNUPS 
Tues. Sept. 2 · Thurs. Sept. 4 4:45.6:45 Dining Halls 
Briefs 
continued from page 6 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team will hold its annual golf outing Saturday at I :00 on the Burke Memorial·Golf Course. Anyone interested in playing should call Dick Milone at 289-4613 or Doug Spencer at 283-2095. • the Observer 
Intramural aerobi_cs at Angela Athletic Facility begin this week. Classes are scheduled for Monday and Wed-. nesday from 10-11 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 4-5 and 5-6 and Friday from 5-6. Cost is five dollars for the semester. -The Observer 



==ARTISTS! 
Get the exposure you need NOW! The Observer Graphic Arts Department Is looking for talented, enthusiastic people to fill positions as: 
Cartoonists, editorial Illustrators Cartoonists, series/humor Advertisement artists 
Graphic artists 
Pick-up an application this week and return It with example of your work. 
Deadline: Friday, Sept. 5 

Thinkof 
all the 
traditional ways
ofbanking. 
• 


Nowforget them. 
Th~ :\otrt: Dame Credit Union wants you to know financial advise you need, the Notre Dame that yes. we can offer all the traditional banking Credit Union is always there, ready to help you. services: checking accounts, savings accounts, Very simply stated, our Credit Union is an mortgages. loans, etc., but we are conunitted uncomplicated, extremely convenient, and at the s:une time to taking care of our members absolutely smart place for your money. as individuals. Whetherit is a specific financial Visit us today. requirement you have or if it is just sound 

Main Office 19033 Douglas Road 219/239-6611 
Field goal gives Terps 10-7win 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH · Dan Plocki kicked a 29-yard field goal with 2: I 0 to play and Maryland rode a dominating defense to a I 0-7 college football victory last night over Pittsburgh, ruining the debut of Pitt Coach Mike Gottfried. 
Pitt drove to the Maryland 38 in the final minute. But quarterback John Congemi, who completed 23 of 45 passes for 258 yards, was dropped for a nine-yard loss on a third down-play and threw a fourth-down incom­pletion to turn the ball back over to the Terps. 
The loss continued a string 
of frustration for Gottfried, 
who also failed to win in his 
first game in three previous 
coaching assignments. 

Congemi, contained for 
three-and-a-halfquarters by a 
big-play Maryland defense, 
rifled a 32-yard scoring pass 
to Reggie Williams on a 
second-and-15 play with 5: 12 
to go to rally Pitt to a 7-7 tie. 
Pitt had failed to score in 
the first half despite a 
thirteen-and-a-half-minute 
edge in time of possession, 
as junior kicker Mark Brasco 
missed field goal attempts of 
41, 29 and 53 yards. 

· Tommy Neal, who had 
given Maryland a 7-0 lead 
with a 1-yard scoring dive 
midway through the third 
quarter, had runs of 14 and 
five yards, and Dan Henning 
hit Ferrell Edmunds for 13 
yards and Azizuddin Abdur­
Ra'oof for 15 to set up Plocki's 
winning kick. 

Maryland's first score came 
after a turnover. 

Pitt running back Charles 
Gladman fumbled at the end 
of a 32-yard pass play when 
he was drilled by safety 
James Brown, and linebacker 
O'Brien Alston recovered at 
the Maryland 45. 

The officials had initially 
ruled that Gladman was down 
before fumbling, but 
reversed their ruling after a 
conference. 

Henning, playing his first 
game as a college quarter­
back. hooked up with Vernon 
Joines on a 24-yard comple­
tion on a third-and-6 play to 
the Pitt I. Neal leaped into the 
end zone two plays later, with 
2: 15 to play in the third quar­ter. 
Cubs eliminated inNLEast 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Denny Walling hit a two-run double and Jose Cruz had a solo homer to highlight a four-run sixth in­ning yesterday, leading the Houston Astros to a 6-4 victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
The loss eliminated the fifth-place Cubs from the Na­tional League East race. 
Billy Hatcher opened the sixth with a single, extending his hitting streak to I I games, and Craig Reynolds 
drew a walk off Ed Lynch, 4-4. 
•
•
•
t 
t 

The Observer 


Sports Briefs 

Men's Interhall Football rosters must be submitted by tomorrow with an accompanying fee of $40. Uniforms and equipment will be issued only after the rosters are in. Proof of insurance must also be provi.ded. Further information may be obtained by contacting the NVA office at 239-5 I 00. -The Observer 
Women's lnterhall Football rosters must be submitted to the NVA office by tomorrow with the $35 entry fee. Team members must reside in the same hall and an insurance and consent form is required. Contact NVA for more information. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club has begun week­day practices behind Stepan Center. Practice begins at 
4:30 p.m. Tuesday and 4 p.m. Wednesday. Anyone interested may attend and further information may be obtained by contacting Kate Titterton at 2904. -The Observer 
The NOOMC Sailing Club has slated its first meeting for all members and prospective members Thursday at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. The club will also be represented at tonight's Activity Night. Further information may be obtained by contacting Tony Fink at 3353. -The Observer 
see BRIEFS, page 5 

Open 

continued from page 8 
But the third set was differ­
ent as Turnbull. who has 
never won a Grand Slam 
singles title, kept up the pres­
sure by chipping and charging 
at every opportunity. 

She was tightening up (in the third set), Turnbull said of her Czechoslovak opponent. I wasnt tightening up. At least I was going for my shots.· 
Gilbert fought Lendl on even terms in the opening set, breaking the Czechoslovak's serve in the seventh game to put the set back on serve. But Lendl. ranked No. I in the world, closed out the first set by breaking Gilbert in the 12th game at 30. 
After that, it was all Lendl. 
''I started missing a lot ol 
first serves and then he picked up his game a lot,"Gilbert said. "He started to pass really well. Then I got a little discouraged. 
~I wasrlt sure what to do -if I should stay back or come 
in.~ 

There was nothing in­decisive about Lendl, who already has won seven titles 
~­
Tuesday, September 2, 1986 -page 6 
Roommates win NVA biathlon 
STEVE MEGARGEE 
Sports Writer 
Sophomores Tom Doyle and Chris Petillo, roommates at Grace Hall, teamed up to win the third annual Non Var­sity Athletics-sponsored biathlon Sunday morning at St.Joe Beach. 
Doyle doubted the two would have competed to­gether if they had not been roommates. 
Petillo swam half a mile across St.Joe Lake and back, and Doyle ran two miles around the beach in a time of 2 I :33, the best time for both two-person teams and indi­viduals. 
Senior Tom Doyle did both the swimming and the run­ning in 22:53, placing first in the individual competition and third overall. 
This was the first year NVA had allowed two-person teams to compete in the biathlon. A total of 21 individ­uals and four teams partici­pated. 
Sunday's biathlon at I I 

a.m. kicked off a beach party Labor Day weeekend spon­sored by NVA. Festivities in­cluded canoe races, kayak in­structions, and a'ppearances by the rowing and sailin~ clubs. 
NVA assistant director Sally Derengoski said NVA held the weekend to demonstrate some of the water sports and clubs offered at Notre Dame. 
The top four team finisher~ in the biathlon were Petrillo and Doyle, Troy Duncan and Pat Lynch, Chris Componovo and Mark Silfies, and John Krueger and Nancy O'Brien, the only woman in the com­petition. 
Top individuals included 

Ward, William Elizondo, 
Patrick Bradley, and Dave 
Ledrick. 
this year, including the French Open. 
He broke Gilbert's service twice in each of the next two sets to move one step closer to his second straight U.S. open crown. 
·'t think after the first set he got broken mentally," Lendl said of Gilbert.''He felt he has to win now three out of four (sets), and he knows I'm going to run forever." 
"I'm hitting the ball solid. I feel great physically. I feel strong. I feel quick, and I feel 
tin not going to tire out.., 
Navratilova reeled off the first four games in her match with Sabatini. After the Argen­
tine teen-ager took the next three games, breaking Nav­ratilova's service from deuce in the sixth game, the world's top-ranked woman held her next service game at love to close out the set. 
Sabatini opened the second set by holding. but Navratilova took six of the next seven games in her rush into the quarterfinals. 
The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Senior Staff Reporter Copy Editor Day Editor Saint Mary•s Assistant Editor 
Those Interested may come up to the Observer's offices on the th1rd floor ot LaFortune Student Center or coli Mark Pankowski. Trpp Boltz or MOrQie Kersten at 239-5303 
QUESTION #1. 
WHAT IS THE RIGHT CHOICE FOR MOST COLLEGE STUDENTS? 
a) 
AT&T-for everyday discounts of 40% to over 50% off weekday rates on out-of-state calls. 

b) 
Short bursts of intense study followed by hours of frantic partying. 

c) 
AT&T-for exceptional value and high quality


•
serv1ce.
. 

d) 
AT&T-for collect, third-party and operator­• assisted long distance calls. 

e) 
Any class that does not conflict with "The Love 


Connection~' 


If you picked A, Cand D, you're destined for great things. Like AT&r Long Distance Service. AT&r offers so many terrific values. Like a 40% to over 50% discount off our day rate on night, evening, and weekend out-of-state calls. 
Imagine what you'll do with the money you could save. Imagine what your parents would do if they found out. 
Of course, you can count on AT&r for clear long distance connections any place you call. And AT&r gives you immediate credit for wrong numbers. 
To find out more about why you should choose AT&r, give us a call. And if you picked Band E, call any­way. You could probably use someone to talk to. 
Call toll-free today, at
#1 800 222-0300. 







?totP~ 


ATs.T 
The right choice. 
~ 1986AT&T 





1[()cla~---------------------Tue-sday~.se~pte-mbe-r2._19B-6-~pag~e7
Bloom County 
IWP!i07H~ 
CIINNW Me. 
Iftl AN tJVTCA5( 
I 

Zeto 
ITS NOr F"AIR TkAr A eiG BUu.v SHOuLb BE" ABLE ro cvr IN F1lONT ar US tN UNF: AF"T£R. 
We 5P£Nr THF: WHOI.E 
N16Hr WAmNe-FOR TH€51! 
TICKETS", -r---­
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
... /It/. /J€CIK/~ )'W, WHY1 M/5TCI? 5HOKT N' 5f;f£111tff5H, 
I
WV !N5151f:P 1NAT I • 
SHA~ 11£56 t.&&~. 
Kevin Walsh 



Just another old wives' tale. 

Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients JVOIVBENTING FOB FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
1

,\lm l' in lwfon· ) 1-1 }-;(, and gl't 
OIH.' lllOIHh fn-e l"l'llt 
Office at120 ND Ave 
134-6647 
CaUAaytime 

Concession Stand 
•
• 
Meeting • 

• 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 • 6:30p.m. 

• 
UTILE THEATRE-LAFORTUNE • 


• 
• 

: Clubs awarded stands must aHend! : 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Harbor craft 5 Provides 
sustenance 10 Become 
satiated. 14 Parks or Lahr 15 Consent 161nter­17 Winglike 
structures 18 Ball park 
seating area 20 Cures 22 High nests 23 Unties 24 Aware of 25 Kind of syrup 27 Hammett's 
Spade 29 Play sponsor 33 Escorts 35 Single thing 37 Withered 38 Sp. uncle 39 Lobe adornment 42 King Cole 43 Author Ferber 
45 Coal mine 
46 Most recent 48 Permeates SO Fuel 52 Lesions 53 Kind of rubber 55 Film director 
Frank 57 Cling 60 Felt sorry for 
one's sins 63 Tool sharpener 
_ 65 Light-hearted 66 Adamantine 67 Cafe patron 68 Kill 69 Ripens 70 Curl 71 Formerly 
DOWN 1 Ski lift 2 Congo river 3 Old record 
player 4 Church spire 5 "Oliver Twist" 
character 6 Exit 

L...-..&..-........__.__  
<>1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc .  
All Rights Reserved  
7 Important  
periods  
8 Study  
9 Auto body  
10 Customers  
11 Russ. range  
12 Fishing cord  
13 Young men  
19 Organ bristle  
21 Name in farm  
machines  
24 Atlanta  
sports arena  
25 Deaf ones  
26 Stage  
whisper  
28 Main artery  
30 Certain group  
of people  
31 Wipe out  
32 Latvians  47 Whirlwind  58 Haul  
34 Ninny  49 Semi-precious  59 Engage  
36 Made bigger:  stone  60 Memory  
abbr.  51 Play parts  61 Sevareid  
40 Baltic city  54 Adjust a clock  62 Unit of force  
41 Can. peninsula  56 Mimics  64 Road preser­ 
44 Attaches  57 Moslem title  vative  

Tuesday, September 2, 1986 • page 8



S~orts 
ND soccer team earns' biggest win' in 1-0 shutout of UW-Milwaukee 
By BOB KEMPER proved to the team that they Flynn was very enthusiastic Sports writer can compete with high­about the season debut. caliber competition. 
''The team played a superb
The Notre Dame soccer "I have only been coaching 
game,11 he said.''To play that
team started its season offon here for three years, but this 
well at the beginning of the
the right foot with a hard­is certainly the biggest win so 
season is very encouraging.
fought 1-0 victory over host far~noted Head Coach Dennis 
The defense was spectacular
University of Wisconsin­Grace. Wisconsin had nine re­
and the freshmen pla>;ed with
Milwaukee. The lone goal was turning starters and was a lot of composure.
scored byjunior striker Bruce ranked as high as I I th in the 
McCourt at 15:02 of the first nation last year. Coach Grace said he was 
half. The tally was scored on In addition, the UWM Pan­especially pleased with the 
a header and was set up with thers were ranked third in the unselfish play of his squad. 
an assist by freshman ISM Great Lakes regional Teamwork was quite evi­
midfielder Kevin Kade. The poll, while the Irish were dent/' he said.l'The players 
shutout was recorded by given no preseason mention. worked for each other and 
senior goalkeeper Hugh Bres­The only disappointment that is the way a good team 
iin, who recorded six saves. of Sunday's contest was the must play. 
Aside from starting ' the injury suffered by co-captain l' It was a great defensive ef­
season on a good note, the Jim Flynn. The senior fort. I am not talking about 
victory had., special sig­goalkeeper/stopper sus­just the goalkeeper and ful­
nificance for the Irish. The tained a separated shoulder lbacks, but the entire team. 
win helped to avenge a dis­and was scheduled for diag­Everybody, including the 
appointing 3-2 overtime loss nosis last night. Although frontline, played with a lot of 
of the previous season and sidelined for the time being, intensity on defense. " 


Turnbull ousts Mandlikova from U. S. Open 
Associated Press been a semifinalist twice, the eliminated Andrei Chesnokov 6-2, 2-6, 6-2; No. 9 Manuela Gadusek and Maleeva against
last time two years ago. of the Soviet Union 6-0, 6-2, Maleeva of Bulgaria nipped Lloyd.NEW YORK-Veteran Wendy Earlier in the day, the two 6-3. 
No.6 Clauclia Kohde-Kilscll of It was the earliest a defend­Turnbull of Australia pulled top seeds, Ivan Lendl and In the women's singles, No. West Germany 6-2, 2-6, 7-6; 
ing women's singles cham­off one of the biggest shock­Martina Navratilova, rolled 5 Pam Shriver, Navratilova's No. 3 Steffi Graf of West Ger­pion has been ousted from ers of the U.S. open Tennis into the quarterfinals witll doubles partner, also won in many defeated Italy's Kaf­the U.S. open since Julie 
Championships last night, straight-set victories. straight sets, downing No. 15 faella Reggi 6-I, 3-6, 6-0; No. Heldman upset Billie Jean ousting defending women's Lendl, defending the title Kathy Jordan 6-4, 6-4. The 
8 Bonnie Gadusek stopped King in the third round in champion Hana Mandlikova he won last year, moved into victory pits the close friends No. 13 Stephanie Rchc 7-6, 1973. 6-4, I -6, 6-3. high gear in the second set against each other in Tues­4-6, 6-2; and No. 7 Sukova of Turnbull said that in the The victory sends the 33-as he eliminated 15th-seeded day's quarterfinals. ,.
Czechoslovakia downed No. second set I started to feel 
year-old Turnbull, the oldest Brad Gilbert 7-5, 6-1, 6-2. ''Martinas always tllere when I 2 Zina Garrison 6-4, 2-6, ()-kind of tired. Thats the kind player left in the singles com­Seeking her third U.S. open lm here," Shriver said of the 4. 
ofplayer Hana is. I let her have petition, into a quarterfinal women's singles crown in quarterfinals. '\ve just go to­an inch and she took the 
matchup against seventh­four years, Navratilova 

gether." Besides the Navratilova­whole second set.·' seeded Helena Sukova of crushed Argentina's Gabriela · All of the other women's 
Shriver and Turnbuii-Sukova Czechoslovakia. Sabatini, the No. I I seed, 6­
winners, including Lloyd, a matchups, other quarterfinals'~~J guess when youre over 30 4, 6-2. six-time winner of America's pairings send Graf against see OPEN, page 6 

people start writing you off,' In other men's matches premier tennis event who is Turnbull, who is playing in yesterday, No. 4 Stefan Ed­seeded second this year, had her I Oth U.S. open, said. In berg of Sweden gained a to go three sets to post vic­1977, she was runnerup to quarterfinal berth by tories. Chris Evert Lloyd and has stopping Dan Goldie 6-3, 6-2, Lloyd outlasted No. 14 6-2, while Tim Wilkison Catarina Lindqvist of Sweden 

Defending U.S. Open champ Hana Mandlikova was upset by Wendy Turnbull in yesterday's play. Details of that and other matches appear above. 
Football Ticket Distribution 

Notre Dame student season ticket sales enter their second day, as juniors pick up their tickets this after­noon. 
Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their applica­tion, remittance and I.D. card to Gate 10 of the ACC Oft the day specified for your class. Tickets will not be distributed at Gate 3 as was originally printed on student applications. A limit of four applications may be presented together per student, provided that the individual presenting the applications .has aH four I.D. cards. Married students wishing to purchase a ticket for their spouse must show proof of marriage. The ticket for thP spouse will be the same price as a regular student ticket. 
The schedule for ticket distribution is as folfows: 
Juniors Today Soph./Grad/Law Wed., Sept. 3 Freshmen Thursday, Sept. 4 






