--------~­
--~-----~--------.1 
IRISH EXTRA -INSIDE 
----------------------------------------------------=------------------------------------·------------------­

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer/Jim Carroll 
Surrounded by the memorabilia of his exalted the future of Notre Dame, and his possible suc­career, University President Father Theodore Hes­cessor. Story below. burgh reflects on his achievements, his future, 
Hesburgh looks back on 34 years 
Five still in running for ND_ president 
Ass~ated Press 
Each of five potential succes­sors to Notre Dame President Fa­ther Theodore Hesburgh remains in the running during the final month of the presiden­tial search, trustee Andrew McKenna says. 
Hesburgh, 69, has announced he plans to retire at the close of the current academic year after 35 years as president. 
Notre Dame's 16th president will likely be chosen from among five candidates promoted to key posts by Hesburgh after he agreed in 198:.: to serve five years beyond his original retire­ment date. 
"The search process Is very genuine and all these players are in the game," McKenna said In the autumn issoe of Notre Dame Magazine made available Thursday. 
Although control of the univer­sity passed to a lay board from the Holy Cross priests In 1967, the school's bylaws still require the president be a member of the Holy Cross order. 
The search committee will select a candidate and present his name at a scheduled Nov. 14 meeting of the full board of trus­tees. "Only the trustees have the vote, so I cannot be certain that the election will take place that day," McKenna said. 
University officials say board approval is almost a certainty. 
Donald Keough, chief execu­tive officer for Coca-Cola Co. Inc. and chairman of the Notre Dame trustees, said the candidates are a "remarkable group of qualified members of the Congregation of Holy Cross." 
Notre Dame Magazine identi­fied the candidates as: Ernest Bartell, director of the Helen Kel­logg Institute for International Studies; William Beauchamp, ex-
see CHOICE, page 7 

By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
In the waiting room of his of­flee hang photos of him shaking hands with popes and presi­dents. Across the room is a cabinet, its shelves lined with awards. 
Inside the office, University President Father Theodore Hes­burgh settles back in his chair, surrounded by relics he's col­lected from some of the approx­imately 130 countries he's visited. 
In 1982 Hesburgh announced he would retire after five more years, making May 17, 1987, the final day of the longest presidency in Notre Dame's his­tory. 
No real disappointments 
Looking back over his 34 years as president, Hesburgh says he hasn't any "perceptible disap­pointments here." 
"One always figures that one might have done better or do better given different circum­stances," says Hesburgh, now 
69. "But by and large I'm rather happy about what's happened." 
What's happened In those 34 years Is that Notre Dame's en­dowment has skyrocketed from $9 million to more than $350 million; its annual operating budget from $9.7 million to $176.6 million; and its research funding from $735,000 to $15 million. 
Enrollment has risen from 4, 979 to 9, 600, faculty from 389 to 950 and degrees awarded from 1,212 to 2,500. 
"With the help of a lot of very dedicated and talented people, I think we've emerged as one of the really great Catholic univer­sities of the world," says Hes­burgh, whose tenure is the longest among active presidents of American universities. 
"I think the place gets better every year," he adds. "One way to look at It would be physically. 
see HESBURGH, page 4 

Institute for Peace Studies to focus on education 
By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
Foreign fellowships and un­
dergraduate courses will be the 
focus of the recently established 
University of Notre Dame In­
stitute for International Peace 
Studies according to an advisory 
council which met yesterday at 
the Center for Continuing Edu­
cation. 
Yesterday's meeting of the ad­
visory council presented and dis­
cussed the specific programs the 
Peace Institute Intends to ad­
vance, according to Michael 
Gray, assistant director of public 
Information. 
The council heard presenta­
tions from George Lopez, asso­
ciate professor of government 
and International studies on the 
proposed undergraduate pro­
grams; the Honorable John Gil­
ligan, Institute director, on the 
Faculty Peace Studies Forum; 
and Robert Johansen, professor 
of government and International 
studies and senior fellow of the 
Institute, on the graduate pro­
grams and Visiting Fellows. 
Advisory Council members 
emphasized the Importance of 
the foreign fellowships. Univer­
sity President Father Theodore 
Hesburgh proposed that three 
students from the Soviet Union, 
People's Republic of China, the 
United States, Western Europe 
and Japaq come to Notre Dame 
for a year program. The purpose 
Is to "put them together and see 
If they could come up with a 
document," said Hesburgh. 
"If this group can't get along, 
there's no hope for the world," 
Hesburgh added. 
"I think that having Chinese 
and Soviet students here Is the 
key to making It (the Peace In­
stitute) unique," said Dr. James 
Muller, co-founder of the 
see INSTITUTE, page 5 

A Weekend with Air Force 
Alumni Association sets events 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association is gearing up for the fourth home football weekend. The Association has prepared a list of events scheduled for the weekend. TODAY 4:30p.m.: Band rehearsal outside Washington Hall. 7·p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center. 
~ TOMORROW 
8 a.m.: Band Rehearsal. The Notre Dame Marching Band marches from Washington Hall to Cartier Field. 9 ·11 a.m.: Hospitality Center In the ACC North Dome. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially Invited to the Hospitality Center for refreshments, entertain­ment, fllms and Information. Coffee compliments ofthe Notre name Alumni Association. 
10:30 a.m.: Performance by Shenanigans In the ACC North Dome. 
11:10 a.m.: Band pre-game performance In the stadium. 
11:30 a.m.: Football: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Air Force Falcons. ArTER THE GAME: Hospitality Center In the ACC North Dome. 



Memorial's,dedication draws fire 
By JIM RILEY Assistant News Editor 
A peace group will stand by In 
prayerful silence during a mass 
dedicating the Clarke Memorial 
Fountain this afternoon. 
The group objects to the wor­
ding on the memorial and the 
"militaristic nature" of the 
dedication, according to Joe 
Ross, a member of Pax Christi, 
an International Catholic peace 
organization. 
Members of the groups Pax 
Christi and Women United for ·Justice and Peace will attend the dedication ceremonies holding 
banners, according to Ross. 
Ross said, "We will stand along 
the assembly In silence with ban­
ners that say 'The God of Peace 
Is never glorlfled by human vio­
lence' and 'Pax Christi'." The 
former Is a quote from Thomas Merton, according to Ross. 
Contingents from each of the three Reserve Officers' Training Corps units will attend In dress uniforms, and the colors will be presented before mass, accor­ding to Richard Conklin, director of public relations and Informa­tion. About 150 ROTC members will attend the ceremonies, ac­cording to ROTC members. 
There will also be an Air Force A· 7 jet fighter "fly-over" east to west before the liturgy begins at 4 p.m., weather permitting, ac­cording to Conklin. 
"We are not objecting to remembering war dead," said Ross. Rather, Ross said the group objects to some of the wording on the memorial and to the nature of the dedication. · 
The wording on one side ofthe memorial reads "Pro patrla et pace," for fatherland and for peace. "It is precisely this mis­taken dedication to fatherland­nationalism, that often en­courages and rebukes peace," said a Pax Christi statement. 
The group also objects to the large presence of the military among the speakers, the guests, and In the fly-over, according to Ross. ''To work for peace does not mean celebrating mass In the midst of warplanes," Ross said. 
''Those are not the trappings of peace. Those are the trap­pings of war," .said Ross. 
Ross said he'd like to have the group's actions considered a prayerful silence rather than a protest. "We will not disrupt or be disrespectful," he said. 
Assistant Director of Security Phil Johnson said Security had no Indications of disruptive ac-
see MEMORIAL, page 5 

The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 2 


In Brief ­
"Louie, Louie" will be heard again in Notre Dame stadium, according to band members. Director of Bands Jim Phillips told the band the controversy over the popular song was because of a misunderstanding between the band and him­self. University President Father Theodore Hesburgh was not involved. ·Because of time constraints in rehersal, "Louie, Louie" will not be played during this week's show but will be back after break, according to band members. 
The Observer 

former Veterans Administration head Harvey Higley, who 
served the VA under President Eisenhower, died Wednesday 
at age 94. Eisenhower named Higley VA administrator In July, 
195.3. Higley, a veteran of World War I. remained In the post until he resigned in 1957. -Associated Press 
A nuclear bomb model, originally used in an In-class student presentation, has mushroomed into controversy on the campus of the University of Colorado. Senior physics major, Frank Sanders built the model and has been keeping it in his dormitory room. Administrators are now requiring Sanders to remove the model. -Associated Press 
Two Notre Dame students have been awarded scholarships for the 1986-87 academic year by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Honored are Diane Yu, a soph­omore from Lake Jackson, Texas, and Marc Dobbins, a fresh­man from Chicago, Ill. Yu and Dobbins are among 405 un­dergraduate and graduate minority students in accounting selected to receive these awards. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
School Board District 5 voters, which includes Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, will meet Tuesday night from 7:.30 to 9 at the Clay Library on 52655 North Ironwood Road. The meeting Includes a question and answer period with school board candidates and refreshments. -The Observer 
The National College Internship Service, NCIS, of New York assists undergraduate and graduate students to obtain Indi­vidually designed Internships in their major fields during Summer 1987 and DecembeliJanuary Intersesslon 1986-87. Placements are available In New York City, Long Island, and Westchester. For more Information, write National College Internship Service, .374 New York Avenue, Huntington, New York 1174.3, or call their new number (516) 67.3-0440. On campus information is available at the Career and Placement Services office. -The Observer 
father Richard McBrien, chairman of Notre Dame's Theol­ogy department. will discuss higher education In the Catholic Church on Sunday at 12 p.m. on WSND-FM 88. 9. Interviewing McBrien will be Michael Tarm, host of the weekly "Ideas and Issues." ·The Observer 

Weather 
Why is ·it the guys who do the least spray 
the most champagne? That's the question asked by the New York Mets' high-ups as they got blasted with champagne Wednes­day night. It's a question worth pondering and today might be just the day for it as temperatures bubble up to the high 50s. Tonight will be cool In the mid .30s but tomorrow features sunshine, temperatures 


in the 60s, and good times to be had by ali. -Associated Press 

Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ........ Cathy Stacy Layout Staff. ........ Andy Fenoglio Typesellers . ........... Smed Laboe ................... Chris Reardon News Editor . .......... Regis Coccia Copy Editor ........... Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor. Marv Albert (yes!) Viewpoint Copy Editor . .. 1ulie Collins Viewpoint Layout . ... Kathleen Moran 
Campus Scene Editor ...... Ed Nolan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Eric Bergamo Campus Scene Layout ... Karen Webb . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Heather Hypes Typists ............... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor . .... Noreen O'Connor SMC Day Editor . ....... Karin Radar AdDesign ...... Mary Carol Creadon Irish Extra Layout Kathleen McKernan Photographer ........... Greg Kohs 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Saying goodbye to parents no longer child's play 
When I began my stay at Notre Dame in the fall 
of 198.3, I remember thinking that my transition 
to college symbolized my passage Into Indepen­
dent adulthood. I wasn't quite sure what this pas­
sage Involved --I wasn't even sure I wanted to 
make It --but I recall holding one certainty about 
the event: It would mark a true movement away 
from my parents. 
I remember saying a quick goodbye to my par­
ents by their car after first surreptitiously scanning 
the surrounding parking lot to make sure no one 
was watching. After ali, even If I did feel that my 
entire sense of security was driving away In my 
c;tad's Plymouth, I certainly couldn't let anyone 
else see how childish I was being. Things would 
have to change. 
Three years and a lot of growing up later, I can acknowledge the partial truth of my belief; my relationship with my parents has changed. The change was not the distancing I had imagined, however; I have instead come to a deeper ap­preciation of my parents and an understanding of how Important they are in my life. 
I'm sure my realizations are not unique --they are merely reflective of a pattern that countless parents and children have gone through and countless more will experience. 
I, of course, didn't know this as I tried to non­chalantly wave goodbye that fall. but my parents with the infinite and often maddening wisdom that seems to descend on ordinary mortals the mo­ment they have a child --did. I can imagine the wise smiles on their faces as they drove down Notre Dame Avenue. 
Ail parents must realize that their child's appar­ent disinterest in them is only a phase, a phase which doesn't begin with the advent of freshman year but with the onset of adolescence. How else could they put up with that long and exasperating stage of being treated as if they were imbeciles? 
During my high-school years my parents heard all the patented "Stop-treating-me-like-a-child" arguments, usually asserted by me when I was acting particularly childishly. Convincing my mom that I didn't need a hat in 20-degree-below-zero weather seemed of global importance to me; making my dad realize that ali the kids my age stayed out past 1 2 consumed my conversations with him. Everybody else's parents were inflnitely more understanding and modern; mine were old­fashioned and narrow-minded. 
It seems a universal irony ofadolescent thought that growing up means growing away. By the time I reach,ed college, I had created such a veneer of maturity and Independence --I had "won" enough of those high-school battles --that I thought leaving home and parents behind would be easy. 
My enlightenment came quickly. 
It is said that familiarity breeds contempt and absence makes the heart grow fonder, a phrase perhaps most aptly applied to one's discoveries 
Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 


during freshman year. Ail it took was one bout with the flu --minus mom's constant care --and one less-than-desirable grade on a calculus test for me to realize how much I needed my parents. After all my adolescent efforts to grow up by chal­lenging my parents' role in my life, I finally was forced to move toward real maturity by ack­nowledging their importance. 
My perceptions of my relationship with my par­ents inevitably continued to change as I became more capabl,e of handling my own affairs. Even­tually I didn't need to receive frequent letters -­an occasional phone call would suffice. My parents were no longer the god-like providers of my child­hood or the adversaries of my teen-age years. They became simply real people whom I respect and admire. 
There have been many good-byes since that first awkward one outside my new home. Perhaps the most significant of these occurred when I said good-bye to my mom and dad after last year's Junior Parents' Weekend. Having spent a wonder­ful weekend sharing my college home and life with them, it was hard to see it end. This time, though, I hugged and kissed them good-bye next to the car --not caring who noticed --and watched until their car was out of sight. 
And I'm sure the same wise smiles were on their faces as they drove down Notre Dame Avenue. 


The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 3 
Missile destroys Israeli warplane 
Associated Press people and wounded 1 0 at the p.m., 35 minutes after the onset Mieh Mieh Palestinian refugee of Israel's 13th air attack into SIDON, Lebanon-A missile camp on the city's southeastern Lebanon this year, a pollee 
destroyed an Israeli warplane outskirts. spokesman said. He withheld his during raids on Palestinian guer­Israel's military command still name in keeping with govern­rilla bases near this ancient port had not commented hours later ment regulations. Thursday, the day after a bloody either on the 40-minute attack More jets arrived just before grenade attack in Jerusalem. on Palestinian targets or the loss nightfall and strafed the area 
of the U.S.-bullt Phantom F-4E. where the pilots landed. Ohaddar 
Journalists saw the plane ex­A shiite Moslem militia com­said five of his militiamen were plode after the missile struck and mander said the two pilots bailed wounded. crash into a valley four miles out and landed in an olive grove, southeast of Sidon, and some one alive and one dead. Abu Witnesses said fourjets, Phan­reporters said the wreckage still Jamil Ohaddar ofthe Amal militia toms and Israeli-built Kfirs, flew smoldered 90 minutes later. One said the survivor was captured in in from the Mediterranean and of the two pilots was reported the grove between Slroubieh and made three bomb and rocket taken prisoner and the other was Anqoun, suburbs of this city 25 runs on the guerrilla positions reported killed. miles south of Beirut. starting at 3:50 p.m. 
Itwas the first Israeli plane lost Israeli pilots released red bal­over Lebanon in three years. Guerrillas brought the Phan­loons to deflect the scores of State-run Beirut radio said tom down with a shoulder-fired Strellas that streaked toward bombs and rockets killed four Soviet Strella missile at 4:25 them. 



~Godfathe:r·s Pizza"l 
Find one. Its worth it.™ 

I

TWO LARGE THIN LARGE FOR 
I I

CRUST ONE MEDIUM-MEDIUM 
!

TOPPING EACH FOR SMALL I 
I

$9.99 plus tax & delivery 
Goc!fathcn I 

~-~Pizza. ,t
~ Findo~ find one ll's ~ 11 1
I r
It's wonh it. One coupoa per piau •t putici~tin«locatiotlll. ODe coupon per piau •t puticipetinc klatio-. ~ Not vaJid in c:omltiJylion wid! uy ocher ofFer. Noc valid in combitudon with uy other offer. II 
~---2!.f!_f!~!'!s2~2~~---l.--~!!~:X!~~ 11~71!6_ ___Jl 
We Deliver to a Limited Area 
336 Dunes Plaza Michigan City, Indiana 
874-5288 

Ready, aim 
What at first appears to be a routine Installation of a Soviet-made anti-tank gun In Notre Dame stadium Is really a technician from WGN-TV In Chicago setting up for Saturday's game. 
COMING! B OCTOBER W 


/~BREAK~~~ 
~ DOITALU 
~ 

I -.condition In Booth / \ -.ran In Beds _.Relax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road 

'IM~ftAWfL 
Mishawaka 

What's wrong with this package? As if capturing our hero Cap'n Crunch, threatening Crunch Power and the future of crunchy breakfast "FREE THE CAP'N" CAMPUS SWEEPSTAKES OFFICIALweren't enough, now the soggies have made a mess out RULES of the Cap'n's cereal box! A cause for major unrest with I. NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. To enter the "Free lht Cap'n" Campus Sw~pstakes you must breakfast eaters everywhere! Not to mention the out­highlil{ht 20 ofthr 30 mistakes found on the pidurr of the Cap'n Crunch Cereal box shown in this rage at Quaker Oats! adnrtisement by comparin~r H to the picture con­tained on 16 oz. boxes ofCap'n Crunch Crreal as sold in aTocery retail stores, Write the mistakes on a ~parale pieC't' ofpa~r. In addition. you must Authorities have noted 30 mistakes on the box you see answer the three qurstions localed on the Campus Sweepstakes Official Entry Form. The dues to the answel'!' ofthese three quealions and the reS("ue kithere. Find20 of them a11d solve the three "Free The can be found by purchasing sprcially marked pack­agH ofCap'n Crunch Cereal. or by hand printinJ[Cap'n" clues on special boxes o.f Cap'n Crunch cereal your name and address on a3~ x 5" pirt'e ofpapt>r and mailing it to: •FREE THE CAP'N" Kit•,and you're on your way to being on your own brand P.O. Box 3079, SyoURt, NY11715. One ~que•t per envelope. Requests must bt-rt'ceh:ed no later than January 15, 1987. Requests honored "'hilenew Honda Scooter! supplies Jut. 2. Mail your completely filled out Campus Sweep­stakes Official Entr)' Form with your name, ad­dress, phone number. al{e. answt'rs to the thr~ QUt'stions and the copy of the hitthliKhted pirture of the ('ap'n Crunch package with vour separatt list of mistakes to: "'FREE THE CA.P'!trCAMPUS SWEEPSTAKES, P.O. Box 1302, Bo.ton, MA 02217. DO SOT l'SE THE ESTRY FORM WHI('H IS INCLl'llED IN THE RES(TE KIT TO E~TER THE CAMPl'S SWEEPSTAKES. Enter as often as you "'·ith. Mail each Official Entry Form separately. Sweepstakes beKina approximately October I. 19~. All entriel!l muat be poatmarked by February 2, 1987, tht> endinlt' dale of the s"''eepstakes. ~o fac­similies or mrt'hanical reproductions ofthe-Official Entry Form will bt allowed. 3. Entries must be rt'Ceive-d no later than Februan 14,1987. llleKihle and incomplete entry forms and· lists of mistake11 will not be eli.rible. The sponsor is not rnponsibfe for lost, latf." or misdirected mail. · All ('ampus Sweepstakes Orficial Entry Forms be­come the property ofthe 11ponsor and none \\'ill be disclosed or returned. 4. Five (5l winners of Honda Scooters lindh:idual retail value $758.001 will be selected in a random drawing from amon~t all eligible and correct entrie11 received. The-random drawin,J will be held onWIN ONE OF 5 HONDA SCOOTERS! approximate-ly Marrh 1,1987. by an independtont judging orl(anization. All d~i11ions by the judges will be final. Winners "·ill be notified by mail on or~-------;;;:;~~CHCERE~.-------, before Mal't"h 31, 1987. Winnen must rt'tum sijlned affidavit and relell&C' within 30 days ofrt'Ceipt or anI "FREE THE CAP'!'/" C.HH'l'S SWEEPSTAKES I alternate winnrr will be chURn. Odds of winninr are dept"ndenl upon the number ofcotrr<'l entrie11 rKeived. All prius will be awarded. Limit o~I I priu per~Hnon.I !10..\:\IE: I 5. OnI)' residents ofthe tTSA may partieipate. Void I AllllRESS: I where prohibitt'd by Ia"·. Taxes are the sole respon­('ITY STATE Zll' ---­sibility ofeat'h winner. All Fednal, State and Local law~ and regulations apply. Prize• a~ 1 TELEPHO:-ot: 1 A< a; I ':l!'o!::rt::,r;/:;e:s":rTh:Q":~'::'b0a':! c:mpany. / Where in Sog-land Which door is Which key opens the I it. affiliates, adve-rtis;nlf and promotional agendes. and their immediate families are not eli~tible.1 is the Cap'n7 the Cap'n behind? door lo free the Cap'n7 1 6. For aliai ofwinnen, send a stampedI I. 2. :l. I ~~~THtcAP~~t:iPVS:S~E'i~~}AusWINNERS, P.O. Box 1303, Bo•ton. MA 02277. ~~~Th= I 7. This Sweepatak.n is beinJ( sponsort'd by ThtI "Free the Cap'n" Campus Sweepstakes QuakerOat. Company, Mert"handise-Mart Plaza. ChiCBJ'O, Illinois 6065-t.l 1'.0. Hox 1:!02, Hoston, :\1..\ U22ii Official Entry Form______________________/J  

The Observer 


Hesburgh 
continuedfrom page 1 
More than half of the facilities you see here just weren't here then. 
"I mean It's hard to think of the place without an ACC, with­out a Nleuwland Science, without a Liberal Arts building, without a library, without half the residence halls we have, etc., etc. 
"But that's an easy perception. That's just the physical percep­tion. The more Important Is the qualitative perception --the fact that the faculty Is better, the stu­dents are better, and we're now co-educational, thank God. We just have a better community than we had back then." 
Admission of women 
Besides the transfer of gover­nance from the Congregation of Holy Cross to a mostly lay Board of Trustees in 1967, the biggest change during Hesburgh's ten­ure Is probably the admission of women to the undergraduate program In 1972. 
That change has made Notre Dame "much more like a family," says Hesburgh. "Women bring many talents that men don't have to the University community." 
In addition, he says, "there's a much easier-going attitude be­tween men and women on this campus than there was when It was all men, and when a woman walked on this campus it was like feeding time at the monkey cage. 
"Now everybody's rather relaxed and I think the whole spirit of the place is better." 
130 countries visited 
Since becoming president 34 years ago, Hesburgh's travels have become almost legendary among the student body. The Notre Dame president estimates he's covered more than two mil­lion miles and seen about 130 countries. 
What does he say to critics who contend he hasn't spent enough time on campus? 
"I think I've spent enough time here to do what had to be done," says Hesburgh. "And a few things besides. 
"''ve been to New York prob­ably 500 times and seen one play. So I wasn't there to amuse myself," he adds. "I think on bal­ance I probably could say I spent more than 60 percent ofmy time on the campus and worked a double shift when I was here and never missed a day. 
"However, I've got to say that once a myth gets started there's no putting it down, and it makes for amusement and good stories." 
Popes and presidents 
Much of the reason for Hes­burgh's travels stems from his work outside the University. He has served four popes, three as permanent Vatican City repre­sentative to the International Atomic Energy Agency for 14 years. 
He has had 14 presidential ap­pointments, one ofwhich was as a charter member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights In 1957. 
Another was as ambassador to the 1979 U.N. Conference on Sci­ence and Technology for Devel­opment. which made him the 
first Catholic priest to serve in a formal diplomatic role for the 
U.S. government. Hesburgh was also the first priest to serve as a director of the Chase Manhattan Bank and a trustee of the Rock­efeller Foundation. 
All told, Hesburgh has been or now Is a member of about 75 boards, committees and organi­zations. 
"You learn a lot by being on these different groups," he says. "I went on the National Science Board and I never had had a class In physics. But !learned an awful lot of physics and became some­what of an expert in the field of nuclear energy, and Its possibil­Ities and Its peaceful uses. 
"And I think now I understand what the warlike uses are and how to avoid them." 
Turned down 'interesting jobs' 
Looking back on his career, Hesburgh says there's nothing else In public service he wishes he'd done. He adds, however, "I turned down some Interesting 

jobs because I didn't think they were compatible with being a priest or head of a Catholic uni­versity." 
For example, says Hesburgh, "I turned down being the director of NASA at one point, which I would have enjoyed doing. That was at the time we were getting ready to go to the moon with the Apollo program." 
Had he not become a priest and Notre Dame president, what would he have done? "It's diffi­cult to answer that because I never wanted to be anything but a priest, " he says. 
"I don't want to be anything but a priest today, and I'm delighted I became a priest. I only hope I die a priest. So I never speculated about doing something else." 
2 112 pages of awards 
The success Hesburgh's had In public service Is borne out by the honors and awards he's received, which take 2 112 pages to list. 

They include the Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest ci­vilian award; as well as the. Meik­lejohn Award ofthe American As­sociation of University Professors, given to Hesburgh in 1970 for his help in warding off the Nixon administration's at­tempt to use federal troops to squelch nationwide campus un­rest In 1969. 
Hesburgh, however, may be most noted for his honorary degrees, the first of which Le Moyne College awarded him in in 1954. Four years ago he en­tered the "Guinness Book of World Records" after breaking the old record of 89 honorary doctorates, and now holds 11 0 of such degrees. 
After his retirement 

Once he retires in May, Hes­burgh says the first thing he wants to do, "and the only thing that I'm set on at this moment, Is to get away from here for a year so that the new people will have elbow room ...." 
After that, Hesburgh says he hopes to return to Notre Dame with Executive Vice President Fa­ther Edmund Joyce, who is retir­Ing at the same time as himself. "I hope to come back and have an office with Father Ed In the library and do whatever I can to 


-·-·-ts ofthe Castle 
Men's Hairstyling $6studenT $8.50 complete cut style 
MINUtES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1591 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aiM featare tbe Royal Bronae Saataanln8 C.ater See • taa I• ••••••• ... Not Hoare
lr-09d" ~t. RNd 13 (behind~ s-!Mcheol 
+ 


----.--~~-----------------~-~--~--­

----------..--------.. 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 5 
mutual understanding is very curlty issue," Malone said. useful for the Peace Institute,"



Institute 
he said. The Institute was established 

An immediate care medical facility for minor illness or injury. 

(219) 272-9900 

A cooperative venture of Satnt Joseph's Care Group and Saint Joseph Hospital of Mishawaka. 
continuedfrom page 1 
Physicians for Social Responsi­bility. 
Director Emeritus of the Stan­ford Linear Accelerator Center Wolfgang Panofsky said he was concerned with the group sharing a substantive learning experience. 
Thomas Malone, scholar-in­residence at St. Joseph College, said, "I think the role of trust needs to be explored." Gu Yi Jlan, secretary general qf the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and Notre Dame alumnus, agreed. "I think the younger generation has to know t:ach other during this kind of study...this kind of contact and 


Not everyone agreed with the primary importance of the foreign fellowships. "The under­graduate program, initially, is the thing to emphasize," said Robert Lifton, distinguished profesor of psychiatry and psy­chology at John Jay College and the Graduate Center of the City Universitv of New York. 
Hesburgh said the ten percent of Notre Dame undergraduate students that are involved in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps programs "are quite open to the kind ofdiscussions that grow out of the Peace Institute." 
"With a (ROTC) unit on the campus, there Is oppor­tunity...some people will be able to examine the national se­
---f%1 . 

Saint Mary's Coil~~ 
ANGELA ATHLETIC PACIUTY • NOTa£ DAME 
ANTIQUE SHOW AND SALE South Bend, lndiaoa 
OCTOBER 17, 18 & 19 

Friday 6-9:30 Saturday 11-9:30 Sunday 11-5:00 FREE PARKING $2.50 ADMISSION Preseot this eard for 504 Discount Saturctay-Senior Citizens Day-$1.00 80 ~UALITY EXHIBITS Don t miss this fine event 
Rakow said that Security has kept


11••..11!••••••••••••11111!!1111••••••••••••••••••!11••••••••••••1 an officer posted at the memorial 

OUR SOCKS OFF 



ANDWIN $3000. 
The 1987 Honeywell Futurist Awards Competition. 
Here's your chance to stop us 1n our tracks: Power-up your imagination and make a 25-year leap into the future. Turn your visions into tvvo short essays, and you could win one of ten $3000 prizes plus a Honeywell summer internship. If you're a full-time student at an accredited U.S. college or university, call toll-free 800-328-5111 (ext.1581) for an entry form and complete rules. Or write: Honeywell Futurist Awards Competition, MN12-4164 Honeywell Plaza, Minneapolis, MN 55408. We'll even send you a pair of future socks for practice. But don't drag your feet­you must request your entry form before December 31, 1986; and mail 
your entry by January 31,1987 
I 
Together. we can find the answers. 
1 f)~ Honeywell 
,, -I I 
, -:'\ i


' )~}' ;' 
·n 
last December \vlth a $6 million gift from Mrs. Joan Kroc, widow of Ray Kroc, founder of the McDonald's Restaurant chain. According to Gilligan, however, the Institute has been In the plan­ning stages for the past two years. 
Hesburgh announced the Peace Institute has received two more gifts, one for $1 million and another for $500,000. 
Eighteen of the .31 members of the advisory council attended the one-day conference. Advi­sory council members Robert McNamara, former U.S. secretary ofdefense, His Eminence Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, archbishop of Chicago, Carl Sagan, profes­sor of astronomy at Cornell Uni­versity, former U.S. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance and Yevgeny Velikhov, vice president of the Academy of Sciences In the So­viet Union were unable to attend. 

Memorial 
continuedfrom page 1 
tivity being planned for the dedication. 
"We have a concern that there is a possibility for vandalism or Halloween-type pranks," said Johnson. Director ofSecurity Rex 
24 hours a day since Wednesday. Since the University wants to be sure the memorial is presentable for the dedication, the best way is to have an officer standing by, Johnson said. 
Security frequently will post a 24-hour guard at the site of a large event. especially if there are things present that are sus­ceptible to theft or damage, said Rakow and Johnson. 
Security watches the TV trailers outside the stadium before every game and are compensated by the network for their security ser­vice. 
Though a guard has been watching the memorial in the time before the dedication, Rakow said that during the ceremonies, Security will mainly be conce~ned with getting people in and out of the area smoothly. 
r 
PAC&SHIP Balloon Bouquets 
1
from $5 and up ~ 
delivery available 
Emery, Pony & 
cy
UPS Shipping Dry Cleaners Stamps & Photo Process. 
1 
277-7748 ~ 
ANTHONY EUGENI FOR 

~ ~ 
'1t 
• 
·•• • 
• 
•
• 

• 
,...................... 
--------~--------~­
.._.,.___._w_,.______ 
--~----..----~-~--~-~~--·--~-~~------·-----,._.........-----~----~­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 1 7-18, 1986, -page 6 




HERE'S WHY. 

There's a new career option for todays quantitative graduates. Its not in academia. Its nor in Corporate America. Its not in the Silicon Valley 
Its on Wall Street. 
Today, Wall Street "quants" are literally shaping the future of high fmance. They're developing a new generation of investment products, pioneering new ways to improve profitability, and creating new opportunities for investors and issuers. And for their quantitative creativity, they're being recognized with qualitative reward'i. With challenge, responsibility and recognition. 
Yet you might be surprised to learn that many ofWall Streets most successful "quants" have no prior experience in fmance or economics. They come from backgrounds in math, physics, engineering, operations research, computer science, and other quantitative disciplines. 
Ifforging the way into new frontiers sounds exciting to you, Salomon Brothers Inc. has the opportunity you seek A major investment banking and market-making firm, we're Wall Streets leading employer of "quant" graduates. And since our research and technology management department,;; are the most respeaed in the industry, you'11 be working with some of the top talent in your field. 
Want to le-arn more al:x)ut the challenge of working with a Wall Street le-ader in one of today's most rewarding quantitative careers?Join us at the Salomon Brothers presentation scheduled for your campus. And see how far your future can go. 
.I 
-, 
. 
• 
I 
Salomon Brothers Inc 
Market Makers and Investment Bankers 

One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004 Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, London (affiliate), Los Angeles, San Francisco, Tokyo (affiliate), Zurich 
~------~----------~--------------------------~--~--~----------------------------­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, • page 7 

'Mikey' to eat Life cereal again 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -After 15 years, "Mikey," the finicky toddler who wouldn't eat anything, is back touting Life cereal. 
Mikey, a.k.a. John Gilchrist, 18, was the star of a 1971 TV commercial in which he was the silent guinea pig for two older brothers who wouldn't take a chance on Life, a cereal that was supposed to be good for them. 
They were pretty sure Mikey wouldn't like it, but Mlkey dug 
in,  and  the  brothers  ex­ 
claimed,  "He  likes  HI  Hey,  
Mikeyl  


In the new commercial, Gilchrist has some lines, to show he has since learned to talk, he said. 
The older brothers in the commercial were Gilchrist's real-life brothers Michael, now 21, and Tommy, 2.3. The com­mmercial is one of hundreds which he and his six brothers and sisters have filmed in the past 16 years, Gilchrist said. 
"You don't have to be talented" to make commer­cials, Gilchrist said, but "it can 
be tough.  With  a  little hard  
work  it  can  be  done  by  
anyone."  

Gilchrist attributed the fam­ily's early success to their "chubby cheeks, all-American look." 
He doesn't know how much money he makes. "My parents handle all the financial part." · 
The earnings of all the siblings, ages 8 to 24, are evenly divided and used to finance their college educa­tions, he said. 
In the new commercial, Gilchrist, who said people sometimes stop him and say "Aren't you ...?" is rejected by a girl who refuses to believe he is the original Mikey. 


ND receives $777,649 for research, programs 


Ifyou have a CIRRUS-linked bank card, you don't have a problem! 1st Source Bank says, ''Welcome,'' and invites you to any of our 17 conveniently located Resource Centers, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a half of the Notre Dame Campus: 
1. 
Roseland-52990 U.S. 31 N. at Cleveland 

2. 
St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

3. 
Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 


Resource and CIRRUS ...

rra long on convenience when you're short on cash! ~source 
CIRRUS -.aank 
sion of the LAC virus by George Craig Jr., Clak professor of bio­logical sciences, and post-doc­toral student William Hawley. 
-$16,84.3 from the Indiana State Board of Health for re­search conducted by Harvey Bender, professor of biological sciences, and the Regional Ge­netics Center. 
-$15,000 from IBM for re­search on intelligent work sta­tions in engineering and aca­demic environments by David Cohn, associate professor of electrical engineering. 
-$9,050 from the Fort Wayne Development Center for metabolic studies of carbon 14­labelled pyridoxine by Bernard Wostmann, professor of biolog­ical sciences. 
-$7,500 from the Institute for the Study ofWorld Politics for the study of third world problems by doctoral candidate Thomas Lent. 
-$2,700 from the U.S. Geologi­cal Survey for research on the permeability of dolomite by Stephen Silliman, instructor in civil engineering. 
Awards for service programs totaled $.37,.30.3 from private benefactors for programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry. 
Awards to other programs to­taled $270,526. They were: 
-$254,026 from the U.S. De­partment of Energy for a pro­gram by Paul Kenney, professor of physics, on the Inter­governmental Personnel Act of 1970. 
-$16,000 from the natio'nal En­dowment for the Humanities for a program by Calvin Bower, pro­fessor of music, on musical the­ory and Its sources in antiquity and the middle age. 
-$500 from the Field Museum of Natural History for travel by Erhard Winkler, professor of earth sciences, in support of re­search on the effects of acid rain on marble. 

Choice 
continued/rom page 1 
ecutive assistant to Hesburgh; Edward Malloy, associate provost; Michael McCafferty, as­sociate professor of law; and David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. 
The nominating committee has been accepting reports this month from faculty, students, alumni and official representa­tives of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
"There have been meetings with key members of the admin­istration and with the provincial superior, Father Richard Warner," McKenna said. "We'll also be meeting with Fathers Hesburgh and (Executive Vice President Edmund) Joyce and the provost, Tim O'Meara." 
Keough said Hesburgh's suc­cessor will probably spend the remainder of the school year "reflectin~J" and studying univer­sity administration and "not going to be involved in running Notre Dame this school year." 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame received $777,649 in grants during Sep­tember for the support of re­search and various programs. Research funds totaled $469,820, including: 
-$125,000 from the U.S. Navy for a study ofelectronic transport and breakdown in silicon dioxide by Wolfgang Porod, associate professor of electrical and com­puter engineering. 
-$109, 242 from the National Institutes of Health for research on the structure and function of the ferric enterobactin receptor by Phillip Klebba, assistant pro­fessor of biological sciences. 
-$54,448 from the National Science Foundation for a study of thirteenth century pastoral economics by Kathleen Biddick, assistant professor of history. 
-$40,000 from NASA for re­search on vortex control by Robert Nelson, associate profes­sor ofaerospace and mechanical engineering, and Terry Ng, as­sistant professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
-$.3.3, 289 from Amoco Chemi­cals Research Center for re­search on the characterization of microbial consortium by Charles Kulpa Jr., associate professor of biological sciences. 
-$.3.3,000 from the U.S. Army for research on metallic glasses by Thomas Fehlner, professor of chemistry. 
-$2.3, 748 from the National In­stitutes of Health for a study on factors affecting the transmis­
KNIGHTS 
Men's hairstyling 
272-1691 



STOP BY THE CLUB BEFORE BREAK 

AND SEE OLD FRIENDS 
FRIDAY-9pm to 2am SAT.-half hour after the game to 2am 
Here For The Game • • • The Weekend • • • The Day? Running Short of Cash? 
-F.O.I.C. 

View~_o__i_n__ r_rid-ay--Sa-tu-rd-ay_,o_ct-ob-er_l_7-l-8,_1_98-6,_-....

t_,.___________ 
pa-ge-8 


Pornography opponents go too far in new law 
The University of North Carolina, Greensboro. Located near beautiful mountains and gorgeous beaches, with one of the more appealing climates in the country and boasting one of the more beautiful campuses in the nation. Sounds like a great place to spend four years of college, right? Who could ask for more? An idyllic atmosphere in which to learn and experience through the free flow of Ideas and ... 
Michael Froning 
in the minority 
Hold on a second. I forgot. Thanks to a small group of fundamentalist in­tolerants, supported, unsurprisingly, by Jerry Falwell, North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms and the Reagan White House, North Carolina has passed a new obscenity law. Under the pretext of fight­ing hard-core pornography, this new law has reached unprecedented heights in le~ally attacking the first ammendment. 
Some of the hard-core pornography eliminated by the new law? Just try to find The New York Times, The Washing­ton Post, the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue or American Photographer in Greensboro since the city's leading newsstand closed down. Why? Newsstand owners are afraid of disseminating obscenity to a minor. 
Video stores have also taken the hint. Movies like Animal House, Splash, and Risky Business are difficult if not impossible to find. Why? Again, because of the fear of being charged with a felony. 
The library at the University of North Carolina-Greensboro has also been af­fected. "Dangerous" books are disap­pearing from the shelves. The titles of these hard-core pornographic publica­tions? "Human Reproduction" and "Where Did I Come From?": basic sex edu­cation books designed for young children and teenagers. 
Ridiculous, you say? Unenforceable? That's what my friends back east say when I tell them about parietals. Think again. The "test case" for North Carolina's new law was met with astounding success. Convicted by a jury for selling two magazines -which another jury deemed to be obscene -to an undercover police officer at the bookstore where she worked, twenty-one year old Sherr! An­derson was the beneficiary of two three­year jail sentences (suspended to six months) and a fine of $10,000 in addition to court costs. The law seems to be working alarmingly well. 
Why would anyone embark on such a crusade, such an obvious assault on the first ammendment? According to religi­ous crusaders, it is mostly because the atheistic ideology being perpetuated by 
secular  humanists  must  be  checked.  
These  typical  anti-Christians  espouse  
such  outragous  ideals  as  a  belief  in  

feminism, the abolishment of corporal punishment in day-care centers, and more radical sex education (as if we have any to begin with --less than 1 0 percent of all secondary schools in the United States have any form of sex education 
whatsm~ver.) 
The chief disseminators of this anti­Christian propaganda? Why, Hugh Hef­ner, Bob Guccione, Dr. Ruth and the three m~or T.V. networks, of course. 
ABC, CBS and NBC? Atheistic, secular humanist anti-Christians? Sure. Accor­ding to National Federation for Decency executive director Don Wildman, "Of the people who control television, who tell us what we can watch on the networks, fifty­nine percent were raised in Jewish homes." Nothing quite like a scapegoat, is there now, Wildman? 
A National Federation for Decency? Let's be serious. How about the National Federation for Racism, Sexism, Ignor­ance and General Intolerance! 
The religious right is no more than a neo-McCarthyist group of fundamen­talists who equate differences in opinion or belief with "sin" and a direct attack on the correct "morality." These people hav decided that the only way to reconcile these differences of "morality'' is to elim­inate them by deciding for everyone what should be seen and heard. 

Wake up and smell the coffee. Pornog­raphy is wrong, and must be dealt with, but that does not justify restricting one's freedom of choice through totalitarian laws or promoting intolerance through the use of scapegoats. There is no "final solution." Hiding under the guise of fight­ing pornography to legislate discrimina­tion and persecution of people of differ­ent beliefs is not permissible in this country. 
Our job as citizens of the United States is to protect the laws and ideals that even allow intolerants such as these religious crusaders to attain power. However, we can not allow these people to decimate the laws that protect our freedom to be different. Take a closer look at some of the groups espousing "decency." Are they really just fighting pornography, or are they trying to impose their own beliefs on society by eliminating ours? 
Michael Froning i.s a junior French and Black Studies mqjorand i.s a regular View­point columnist 

P.O.BoxQ 

Reagan's personal goal interfered in Iceland 
Dear Editor: 
Well, the chill of Iceland has now spread over the entire globe. The Soviets went Into the talks looking to make a deal. And Ronald Reagan killed the entire summit over a single issue. 
Reagan was the first U.S. president to be offered major concessions by the Soviets. 
Reagan could have made incredible arms control agreements which would have vastly reduced the gross overabun­dance of nuclear weapons. 
Reagan could have made history as one who wanted peace and an end to the arms race. 
Reagan could have done a lot of things... but he didn't. 
Why? Because he would have had to limit his personal golden calf -SDI: Star Wars. It was the only condition that the Soviets required. Reagan could have had incredible concession from the Soviets if he had agreed to keep testing "in the lab" for ten years. Reagan refused the offers in the name of the "free world." If the Soviets had offered Reagan the opportu­nity to take over Russia, he would have refused if Star Wars was at stake. 
Is Reagan ignorant or just plain arro­gant? Only his proctologist knows from where his thoughts emanate. How could anyone have passed up such a conces­sion over a single issue of personal pride . . . and then blame the other guys for the negotiations breakdown? There 
Doonesbury 
should be no doubt in anyone's mind after this -Ronald Reagan doesn't want arms control. But the American people? the Congress? Such high level negotia­tions should not have been left to Ronald Reagan to befuddle according to his own private goals. 
I am disgusted and disheartened by Reagan's latest display of ignorance. His refusal to make a notable concession has made America lose a lot of her interna­tional prestige. I only pray that the Soviets are patient and will return someday to the bargaining table. 
Andrew Saal Dillon Hall 
True peace cannot be based on fear of war 
Dear Editor: 
Over the past year I have watched the construction of the new Clark Memorial with interest. Initially, I wondered what It was going to look like. Now, I wonder what it means. It seems clear that In the design of the Memorial is embodied a definite view about the place of war in our world. 
One reasonable analysis of the design of the Memorial, It seems, would be as follows. The ball in the center seems to symbolize peace. Its central location sug­gests that the Memorial has at its core a concern about peace. However, it seems clear that the four sets of columns sym­bolize war. They are imposing, fortress­like structures and the names of the three wars commemorated are written on three of them. It does not take much Imagina­tion to deduce the meaning of the Memorial if these two symbols are ac­curately described. 
The Memorial seems to represent the belief that peace must be founded on the possibility of war. The columns are ori­ented in a defensive configuration. War, then, is a defensive mechanism to Insure peace. The Monument says that a willing­ness to go to war is an essential compo­nent of peace. But, one must ask, does this make sense? Any "peace" that is founded on the potential for war is not truly peace. Rather, such a "peace" would be more accurately described as a bal­ance ofterror. True peace, it would seem, must be built on something other than fear ofwar, something like a commitment to treat one's fellow man with both love and justice. 
The Memorial, then, makes an impor­tant statement of the predicament of the modern world. We live In a world which is not at peace, but is rather in a condition of fear. Today's "peace" is built on the balance of nuclear weapons between the superpowers. Much like the four sets of columns In the Memorial, nuclear mis­siles stand to Insure that the balance of terror continues, that "peace" is preserved. 
In deciding whether to call the Clark Memorial a War Memorial or a Peace Memorial, I have a hard time. It would not be accurate to call it a Peace Memorial for reasons which should be clear from above. At the same time, the Memorial is committed to a condition which, although 
Garry Trudeau 

it is not true peace, is not war either. It 
seems to be committed to a condition of 
non-war. Thus, It would not be accurate 
to call It the War Memorial. Over and above all the symbolism about the place of war in our world is the Memorial to the Notre Dame men who gave their lives in America's last three wars. Perhaps for this reason it would be preferable to just call the monument a Memorial. 
Joe Merchant Grace Hall 

Thought behind policy is needed for change 
Dear Editor: 
Eric Wierchart's "P.O. Box Q" letter was 
one of those which does my heart a lot 
of good. 'Good' In the sense that it proves 
that letters-to-the-editor are worth 
reading because every once in a while, 
one contains a pretty important message. 
Wlechart's letter shows that we should not 
be concerned with just the alcohol policy, 
but also with the philosophy which per­
petuates it. 
I ask that you reprint Wednesday's 'P.O. 
Box Q' for the students, Goldrick and 
Tyson, who would have otherwise over­
looked it. Maybe then some of these 
people will concentrate less on legislation 
and a little more on "education, discus­
sion and communication." That would be 
a positive change, one which would really 
do my heart some good. 
Matt Heller Carroll Hall 

Quote of the day 
"When the going gets tough, the tough get going." 
Vince Lombardi 


• 
The Game 
Notre Dame vs. Air Force 
Time 
Saturday, October 18, 1986 
11:38 a.m. EST 
Series 
Notre Dame 11, Air Force 4 
Last 
October 5, 1985Meeting Air Force 21, Notre Dame 15 
Rankings Both teams unranked 
Tickets Game is sold out 
The Schedule 
Notre Dame (1-4) 
L -MICHIGAN, 24-23 L -Michigan St., 20-15 W -PURDUE, 41-9 L -Alabama, 28-10 L -PITTSBURGH, 10-9 Oct. 18 • AIR FORCE Nov. 1 -at Navy Nov. 8 • SMU Nov. 15 -PENN STATE Nov. 22-at LSU Nov. 29-at USC 

------------~------­
Air Force (5·1) 
W-HAWAII, 24-17 W -Texas-EI Paso, 23-21 L ·WYOMING, 23-17 W ·COLORADO ST., 24-7 W -Utah, 45-35 W • NAVY, 40-6 Oct. 11 -at Notre Dame Oct. 25 -at San Diego St. Nov. 8 -at Army Nov. 22 -at Rice Dec. 6 BRIGHAM YOUNG 

~------~----... 
The Stadium 
Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) 

~ 

T\ and Radio 
TEN syndicated broadcast Harry Calas, Jack Ham WNDU-TV (Ch. 16) Jeff Jeffers, Jack Nolan 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1500 WFVI-AM 640 Kevin Herbert Rick Rietbrock 



• 
flS 



Air Force weekend Edition, october t7.::ts, t986
The Observer 


Color provided by Aobeuser-Buscb, Inc. The Obsetver!Jim carroll 

The Irish Guard Is an instantly recognizable symbol of Notre Dame. 
The Irish Guard, ND's colorful football tradition 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
An aura of mystery surrounds the tower­ing ten who lead the way to the stadium on football Saturdays. 
Onlookers stand in awe of the shako­topped marchers shielding the Notre Dame Marching Band. 
Though they are ordinary students during the week, on football Saturdays the mem­bers of the Irish Guard become symbols of the University. 
From the moment they don their finery, these men embody the Notre Dame spirit, and their serious expressions suggest the attitude with which they undertake their duties. 
"Being a member of the Guard is a very serious thing when it comes to game dates," remarks Pat Kruczek. one of four rookies named to this year's Guard. 
"Once we put on our shakos, we're not 
see GUARD, page 2 


Kleine focuses on 'the little things' 
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer 

One of the more recognizable figures on the Irish football squad this season is senior defensive tackle Wally Kleine. 
He Is easily spotted on the field In his 6-9 frame, towering above offensive linemen as well as his own teammates. 
He also Is a very quotable player off the field, deliver­ing lines in his Texas drawl which make for prime feature-story material. 
Kleine Is a definite pro prospect because of his size and strength, as also his instruction by respected coaches such as Joe Yonto, Foge Fazio and, of course, Lou Holtz. 
All of this makes good press for Kleine and the team. But the real value of Kleine is not one of his more recognizable traits. It is his leadership both on and off the field which he prefers to keep low-key. 
"My style of play is to lead by example," says Kleine. "It is not nescessarllyjumpin', hootin' and a holierln', and ali that stuff. We have guys who do that, and that's fine -we need guys who do that. But I'm not one of those." 
Kleine has controlled the defensive line, recording .32 tackles (17 solo) and sacking the quarterback three time for 2.3 yards In losses. He ranks behind only captain Mike Kovaleski in tackles. 
But his leadership on the field does not end after the game. Realizing that the "little things" have been hurting the Irish recently, Kleine has tried to set the example of working hard on the basics In practice. 

"I try to focus on the little things," he says. "Coach (Joe) Yonto helps me emphasize and put into action things like staying low, keep my shoulders out, keep charging forward. 
"Being 6-9, you're at a disadvantage being so tall. While at the same time you have a definite advantage, the little guys, like the ones from Air Force, come so low, and I'm a foot taller than some of those guys." 
Kleine believes In working on the little things, and feels that the entire team must continue to do so. 
"We want to win," he says. "We have to master the little things -I hate to keep on saying It, but that's what it is. All it takes is one or two of them to beat you." 
see KLEINE, page 3 
• 

-------------------------------~~-----­
Irish Extra, pages 2-3 


The Observel)(}reg Kohs 

The guard performs routines like the above to entertain Irish fans before the game and during halftime. 
Guard 
continuedfrom page 1 
allowed to smile. This puts us In the proper frame of mind." 
Kruczek, a senior from Alexandria, Ind., explains what he and fellow Guard mem­bers symbolize. 
"One of our primary duties is simply to be representatives of Notre Dame," he says. "The Guard· is a big thing with alumni who look to us to uphold the Uni­versity traditions and embellish the things Notre Dame stands for." 
In addition to assuming solemn expres­sions, part of the Irish Guard's game day ritual includes dressing in traditional at­tire. Donning the Guardsman's outfit, in­cluding kilt, doublet. spats and shoes, often takes the members one and a half hours. Once attired, the Guard is in­spected by former Guardsmen who have returned to the University for the weekend. 
"It's a great honor to wear the uniform," comments John Kennedy, a senior and fourth-year Guardsman from Olen Mills, Penn., who says there Is a certain thrill that comes wlth being a part of the Guard. 
"There are a lot of good things about being a member, but game day Is definitely the best thing." he said. "It's great to wear the uniform, march In front ofthe band and represent the University." 
Kennedy, this year's Irish Guard Captain, had an Input In the selection of the Guardsmen earlier this fall. 
Along with James Phillips. director of the Marching Band, and Fr. George Wlskir­chen, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Jazz Band, Kennedy chose the Guardsmen on the basis ofmarching abil­Ity, enthusiasm and appearance. 
In addition to Kruczek. Tom Desmond, a junior from Troy, Mich., Brian McDonald, a sophomore from Southport. Conn., and John McGlinn, a freshman from Sinking Spring. Penn., were named as first-year Guardsmen. 
Juniors John Livingston, of Bay Shore, N.Y., and Paul Reuvers, of Faribault. Minn., are both second-year Guard mem­bers. 
Third-year veterans include senior Dan O'Brien, ofGlenview, Ill., andjunlors Mlck Connors, of Leesburg. Va., and Sean Munster, of Chicago, Ill. 
All ten members share a camaraderie that comes from working hard together and playing hard together. 
The group practices Its routines with the marching band on Green Field 


Terry Maki (67) was a one-man wrecking crew against Notre Dame last year, making .30 tackles (19 unassisted) and blocking a field goal which resulted in the game-winning touchdown. 
weeknights for two hours and on Cartier Field for one hour on home football Sat­urdays. 
The time the Guard spends socializing together has created a bondedness among Its members that probably cannot be found In any other group on campus, according to Kruczek. 
"The Irish Guard Is probably the closest thing there Is to a fraternity on campus," he said. "We share a real closeness." 
Kennedy also notes the fellowship among the Guardsmen. 
"We're serious, but we're also social," he said. "The Guard Is a great bunch of guys." 
That the members of the Irish Guard cap­ture the true Notre Dame spirit is apparent from the moment they step off on game days, marching past Washington Hall all the way to the stadium, putting on a pre­game performance that delights all. 
·I 
TileOblenor/Jim CuroU 

Thl• n:plorer ha•n't dl•covered America, but one of the game-day tallgater• on Green Field. 
• 




Tailgaters 
Pratibha Tripathi 
features writer 

Chanting "Go Irish," alumni and fans magicly appear over­night at Green Field to celebrate such an auspiscious occasion as Notre Dame foot­ball with pre-game festivities -the tailgaters. 
"You can't beat this kind of stuff on a Saturday after­noon," agreed Lenny Zappia, class of 198.3. 
"I never got to tailgate be­cause I was an Irish Guard. I enjoy it because I like seeing friends who graduated with me," said Dave Delahaney '8.3. 
"A lot more women!" ex­claimed Patrick Kerrigan, a lawyer and a 1971 graduate. "When we went here the adults tailgated. We did not have access to cars so we did our partying In the dorms." 
"It's good that the under­graduate students have a place where they can vent their energy without worrying about being harassed by the South Bend Pollee," stated Scott Zwingley, a · 198.3 graduate and an MBA student. 
Despite all Its traditions, ex­citement and the various opinions the alumni hold, tall­gaters have become a con­cern to the University and the neighboring community. 
While the students are con­
cerned with the strict rules 
and penalties, Notre Dame Se­
curity Is busy carrying out new plans to minimize the usual and the unusual incidents that arise during every home foot­ball weekend. 
"If you can't tailgate then you lose much of the com­raderie of the ball game. Tail­gaters are one of the places the alumni get to mix with the students," said Mike Kelly, class of 198.3. 
"The event is more than a football game. It is supposed to be a relaxed, enjoyable at­mosphere," agreed Director of Security, Rex J. Rakow. "It is, however, the responsibility of the fans that they don't in­fringe on rights of others." 
Rakow emphasized the im­portance ofgoodjudgment as well as the observance of the Parking Lot Rules. Rule no. 4 of the seven rules is targeted especially towards those who plan to tailgate and drink. said Rakow. "Abuse of the rights ofothers as a result of the use of Intoxicating beverages will not be tolerated in the parking lots or on any University grounds." 
"We have .30 extra people to deal with such problems and safety and security of the pa­trons," said Rakow. "The dif­ferent approach this year Is that the security is working in pairs this year. It gives extra pairs of eyes and ears in the parking lots." 
In 1979, a woman named 
see T AILGATERS, page 2 

Weekend Edition -October 17-18, 1986 Scene-page 2 
Phillip Glass' hypnotic opera about the nuclear age 


Tailgaters · 
continuedfrom page 1 
Chris Bearman Droke her leg and sued the University for liability, thus spurring some of the p'recautions and rules. According to Rakow the court In this case demanded the provision of more security. 
"Over one-third the persons attending the game tailgate," said Rakow. The large number presents other situations at the tailgaters. Rakow recalled an incident when an alumnus insisted on a car being towed because it was parked In his usual parking space. 
A more usual problem is the disregard for the rule that prohibits kegs in the parking lots. According to Rakow the security confiscated five kegs during the Purdue vs. Notre Dame game. 
"The alcohol policy is very specific about tailgates. So we have to deal with them accord­ingly," said Rakow. "If there's a feeling of stopping tail­gaters, it is because of the in­creased number of security (officers)," said Rakow. 
"The bottom line is that people ought to realize when their behavior is infringing on the rights of others. If that is used as a guideline then there won't be a problem." 


f1{£~~1t, ne;ghbo< 
specializing in Italian· food 
~----CARRY OUT--~ 
Open for lunch 

M-F llam-llpm Hours: SAT 4:30pm-llpm SUN 4:30pm-9:30pm 1705 S. Bend Ave. 
277_5666 

South Bend, IN 46635 
Happy Birthday to 

WVFITopTen 
!.Superman R.E.M. 

Janice Terpin 
2.Too Much or Nothing General Public 
3.The Future's So Bright, I Ootta 
Wear Shades Timbuk.3 4.Happy Hour The Housemarttns 
Love, 

5.Sing Our OWn Song UB40 
Mom and Dad; Pete, Paul and
6.Walk Like An Egyptian The Bangles 
the rest of Pangborn Section 4;
7.Wild Wild Life Talking Heads 
8.What About Love 'til Tuesday 9.Begin the Begin R.E.M. • lO.Kiss Me Mummy Calls 
This chart complied from the ptayllsts of wvn-AM640 as of Oct. 14. 
,. 


Makeitwithus and 


theskysthelimit. 
MICHELLE WITT features writer 

Some of the finest music being composed today lies hiaden and unnoticed behind the enigmatic mask of modern minimalism. Philip Glass stands at the forefront ofthis new movement by chal­lenging previous harmonic and rhythmic approaches to musical structure. The opera "Einstein On The Beach," ( 1975) music by Glass, staging by Robert Wilson, il­lustrates a certain obssession which Glass has for hypnotic and complex rhythmic tex­tures -the hallmark of his works. 
His work creates an effect distinctly its own. He com­bines many elements includ­
ing  choirs,  electronic  syn­ 
thesizers,  conventional  
instruments  and  spoken  

words to get his special sound. 
Glass' ideas concerning mu­sical space and time are largely new to post-13th cen­tury western music, the sys­tem upon which pop, jazz and rock are all based. Glass is at­tempting to evoke fresh expe­riences by questioning this tradition. 
All music creates a certain space in which to play out the expression if its ideas. The use of rhythm as a primary means of expressing and ex­ploring musical space is the essential characteristic which sets Glass's work apart from popular music in general. 
depends on a consistent spa­tialttemporal structure. This regular framework serves as a foundation for the linear progression of the melody, usually the dominant elememt in western music. The melody builds up tension until the climax releases the energy and settles into resolu­tion. The contrast against the steady beat allows one to best perceive the melodic varia­tions which are responsible for creating the feeling. 
Glass, on the other hand, 
rectly to rhythmic structure, allowing rhythm to dominate and guide the overall shape of the piece. Rhythm is the main variable, not melody. In his music for the opera Einstien on The Beach, Glass uses this idea of rhythm over melody to create a hypnotiz­ing, intricate musical landscape. 
These compositional in­novations stem from quite a formidable background of classical training. Beginning his studi~s at The Peabody Conservatory in Baltimore, MD, Glass entered the Univer­sity of Chicago at the age of 15. 
Between 195 7 and 196 1 he was a composition student at Julliard, and after graduation received a grant from The Ford Foundation to be a composer-in-residence with the Pittsburg Public School System. In 1964, Glass was awarded a Fullbright grant for study in Paris. 
One of his earliest compo­sitions, a rhythmic piece called One Plus One ( 1968) il­lustrates the essence of all his musical compositions. The idea behind the piece is that Glass begins with two simple rhythmic units which lend themselves to all manner of combination. This idea of ad­
ditive  rhythm  provides  the  
basis  for  the  music  of  
"Einstein."  

The title itself refers to a novel by Nevil Shute about the people of Australia left un­touched by World War Ill but ultimately doomed by the ra­dioactive fallout. By placing Einstien himselfon the beach, waiting with the Austrailians for the wind to bring the end, Glass gives us a clear image of a man facing the results of his actions. 
The opera itself consists of four main scenes, each of which has corresponding thematic music. Trains are symbolic in the first scene of the toy trains Einstein played with as a child and later used to illustrate his theory of relativity. Next, a trial scene seems to suggest Einstein as a self-proclaimed criminal, re­ferring to the distructive powers which he and modern science have helped to un­leash. A spaceship in the third scene seems to extend his theories towards a future of time transcendence. 

Einstein was quite an ac­complished violinist and often played for relaxation. He is placed strategically through­out the work quietly watching 
the  action, and  playing  his  
fiddle.  
In  Glass'  music  as  in  

Einstein's world, the impor­tance of any one element depends upon the point of view of the observer. The feeling ofGlass' work changes as the listener focuses atten­tion on one or another of its aspects. In this way Glass in­cludes that observer in the creative process. Within the limits that Glass has deter­mined for us, we are free to interpret, to wander within a new world of sound. 
By far, the best way to un­derstand the ideas of Glass is by listening to his music. Einstein On The Beach is available at the audio re­sources center on the second floor of Memorial Library. The hours for the center are 8 a.m. to I0:45 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and I p.m. to 10:45 p.m. The unique experience of Philip Glass is one which will expand any music lover's appreciation of the art. 

Looking for a chance to move in the diploma and your drive to succeed. fast lane? Then check out Marine If you've got what it takes. you Corps Aviation. The training is su-could be at the controls of anything perb. The challenges are unique. from a Cobra to a Harrier to the Your ticket to fly is your college hottest thing flying, the F-18 Hornet. 
For more information see Capt. McMannis 
La Fortune or call 1-800-621-8009 

See your Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer when he visits your campus or call him, at the number listed below, today. ~~~~~
• 


.weekend Edition-October 17-18, 1986 
Whoopi is a gas but the movie isn't 
P.A. CIMINO 
features writer 

She first gained acclaim for her spec­tatcular one-woman show on Broadway. Then, seemingly from nowhere, she wowed audiences as Celie, the abused and tortured wife in Stephen Spielberg's adaptation of "The Color Purple." Now she's back on the big screen with "Jum­pin' Jack Flash" attempting to combine her strong dramatic skills with her comic antics. In this vehicle, however, the two ingredients do not always mix well. 
Movies · ~ai~ Jumpln' Jack Flas~.
**1 
(outolfour) 

It goes like this. G(')ldberg plays Terri Doolittle, a computer operator in the monetary transaction department ofa na­tional bank. She is not exactly normal though. Whereas all the other operators In her area keep their desks relatively clean of any mementoes of the outside world, Doolittle likes to keep small toys on top of her terminal, including a rubber Pokey with which she often plays. tfer apartment is also indicative of her char­acter. Spy novels litter the floor as well as wierd, eccentric novelties like the six­foot long toothbrush she uses to scare a visitor. 
In her endeavor to keep her job from getting too mundane, Doolittle resorts to holding conversations, through her com­puter, with operators in other parts of the world. One day a message comes through on her terminal from a person named Jumpin' Jack Flash. Jack, as she calls him, is a CIA agent who enlists her to help him escape from an Eastern Block country. 
Ever the investigative, curious type, Doolittle takes the assignment because she does not want to see Jack die. In her attempt to obtain vital information she is forced to take a swim in one of New York City's polluted rivers and watch agents die. She also has a dangerous fight with a paper shredder and is dragged through the streets of the city in a phonebooth by a towtruck. 
Goldberg is not bad here. She was fan­tastic in "The Color Purple." That movie, however, contained an unparallelled script. "Jumpin' Jack Flash" tries to mix two totally different genres, a suspense­thriller and a comedy, into a believable, yet funny movie. This does not work. For one thing, Goldberg does not know when she is supposed to be funny and, as such, certain lines which might draw great laughs in other situations, fall flat. There is also a use of jokes which only certain groups can understand. It is impossible to take Goldberg seriously when she Is uttering jokes directed at a British audi­ence and the fllm is made and produced for markets in the United States. 
Nonetheless, when she is given the chance to truly act In her best comedic style, she comes through with a presence that one can't help but laugh and want more. tfer emotional scenes are also quite good at times, though she is once agairi fighting the script. 
Backing Goldberg up is a strong cast of comedians and actors including Step­hen Collins, who you may remeber as Commander Decker in "Star Trek: The Movie," James Belushi, Annie Potts and John (Yeah, that's the ticket) Lovitz of "Saturday Night Live." They all play bit parts to Goldberg's lead, but each mem­ber of the cast adds a flavor to the movie which helps it stay alive. 
Probably the biggest problem with this film is it's title. "Jumpin' Jack Flash" the song is used but once to setup the prem­ise. After that it disappears and is never seen again, prompting the viewer to wonder if the name of the movie was cho­sen solely because the Rolling stones have such strong drawing power. In any case, just the fact that this question arises is a disappointment. 
Penny Marshall of"Laverne and Shirley" fame makes her big screen directorial debut here and shows some promise. She 
Scene-page 3 

directed a few episodes for her now synd­icated sitcom and is now aspiring to greater heights. She has created a likable, 
although highly implausible, movie mostly through Goldberg's ability to make even a questionable script a suc­cess. 
In the end, "Jumpin' Jack Flash" leaves 
the viewer with a somewhat empty feeling. Any lasting impressions are due to the competence of Goldberg and her supporting cast. "Jumpin' Jack Flash" could have gone a long way with a 

stronger script. As it now stands the movie isn't a gas, gas, gas at all. 
"Jumpln' Jack Flash" Is now show· lng at the Town and Country Theater. 



Movies 
The talents of Humphrey Bogart and . Katherine tfepburn will be on display in the classic "The African Queen" at 8 p.m. on Saturday in the Northside Little The3ter on the Indiana University at South Bend campus at 1700 Mis­hawaka Ave. 'The African Queen" is the story of an offbeat romance be­tween a reprobate drunkard and a prickly spinster travelling up the Congo River during World War I. Ad­mission is $1. 75. 
A guide to local movie theaters in the South Bend area. University Park Mall on Grape and Cleveland Roads at 277-0441. Fourm Cinema on US 31 at 277­1522. Town and Country on 2340 North Hickory Road at 259-9090. Scottsdale in the Scottsdale Mall at 291-4583. River Park on 2929 Mishawaka Ave­nue at 288-8488. 
Parents are certianly welcome this weekend as Notre Dame takes on Air Force and tries to break the four-year
The Scoop jinx the Falcons have placed on the Irish. Kickoff time is set for 11 :38 a.m. 

100 Center Cinema in the 100 Cen­ter at 259-0414. 

Also at the Snite Museum is an "American Master Photographers" ex­hibit located in the Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery and the "Piranesi Prints from Indiana Collections," featuring the works of Giovanni Bat­tista Piranesi, continue this weekend. 
"The Competetlve Alumna Art Show" will be shown this weekend in the Art Galleries on the Saint Mary's campus. Hours are 9:30a.m. to 12:00 
p.m. and 1 :00 to 3:00 p.m. on Friday and from 1:00-3:00 p.m. on Sunday. For more information call 284-4655. 
"Sounds of Music," a music filled eve­ning will be presented at 7:30p.m. on Saturday in the Administration Build­ing at Indiana University at South Bend located at 1700 Mishawaka Avenue. For more information call 237-4203. 






\AssortedrJ 
Tom Jones will be performing at 8 
p.m. on Friday and Saturday at the tfoliday Star Theater in Merrilville, In· diana. Tickets for the shows are $18.95 and can be purchased by call­Ing (219) 769-6600. 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred heart Church this weekend will be: Father James Ferguson at 5 p.m. on Saturday and at 9 a.m, I 0:30a.m. and 
12:15 p.m. on Sunday. 
This Sunday is Mission Sunday. The schedule for confessions in Sa­cred Heart Church is: Monday through Saturday at 11: 15 
a.m. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. Saturday only 4-5 p.m. in the crypt. 
Vespers will be held Sundays at 7: 15 
p.m. In the Lady Chapel. The rosary Is said dally at 6:45p.m. at the Grotto. 
Weekend Edition-October 17-18, 1986 Scene-page 4 
Throwing straw could break camel's back 
Why are we so angry at each writer Is worth his salt until he other? has dealt with the treachery of 
Why do letters to the editor the tides of life. The preacher of sound so argumentative and ac­Ecclesiastes noted: "God sees to cusatory? it that men fear hlln;" sickness 
Truth is precious because it is and early death are His servants. liberating; if it's religious truth, Every religious tradition has its 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
it may even be life-giving. If ·nobody cared about truth, love would grow confused; integrity would lose its bearings; poetry would die. That state ofour souls 
would be pitiable. 

Human beings become highly 
self righteous in snarling, or in 
appearing grieved, at each other 
as defenders of the truth. What 
is truth? Is it the same as preju­
dice? Is it a form of bigotry? 
The world would be healthier 
if most of us sent our ideas of 
truth back to the drawing board, 
and started the design from 
scratch. Truth begins with expe­
rience. Universal truth begins 
with universal experience. 

What we have seen with our 
own eyes is that man is a traveller 
on a planet which only half 
tolerates him. He once was dust, 
and will be dust again; he starts 
struggling with death at the mo­
ment he was conceived. The 
cards were stacked against him, 
and he will lose the battle; even 
is he has the strength of a giant, 
he will be defeated. In the long, 
long sleep, he will share a bed 
under the starry sky with the 
beasts of the field and the birds 
of the air. 

You may have the faith that 
moves mountains, but nothing 
can save you from feeling sick at 
the faces of the defeated seen 
on television: the starving 
Africans, the napalmed Asians, 
the prisoners In the war camps, 
the street people In American 
cities, the victims and refugees 
with the light gone from their 
eyes. But for the grace of God, 
you could be numbered among 
the walking dead. 

The terrible scenes tell you 
stories of the human condition. 
You hate to be reminded how 
bad off you could be if you were 
a survivor in a country on which 
the nuclear bombs had fallen. 
when, as Kennedy warned us, the 
living would envy the dead. 

A cynic remarked, "If there 
were not a God, we would have 
to Invent Him." Quite a number 
of people don't have God; or 
having Him, they give Him up 
when they see the suffering 
which the universe tolerates. 
We write the theology, hymns 
and creeds in praise of the Father 
of mercies, optimistic in the way 
fat-cat Christians have always 
been optimistic. As Americans, 
we're sure of keeping our heads 
above water, notending our days 
on the poor farm. The Irish, I've 
noticed, use formulas, "St. 
Bridget and St. Patrick, defend 
usl" or "Heart of Jesus, mercy!", 
to ward off the lightning and 
keep the roof from caving in. 
"With the help of God and a 
few policemen," my mother 
would always say when we were 
making plans, to show God we 
didn't take our tomorrows for 
granted. She was constantly as­
king God to bless us, especially 
Is we had been complimented, 
as a way ofImmobilizing the dark 
angels from spoiling our joys 
with their spite. 

The Greeks wrote tragedies on 
the theme of heroes destroyed 
through the connivance of gods 
who had become jealous. In 
literature, you learn that no special way of acknowledging the uncertainty of prosperity and survival. 

Nothing is more visible than the evidence for the existence of an Enemy who makes a project of plotting holocausts: in Biafra, Ethiopia, Cambodia, Vietnam, Nicaragua; and in the sick rooms of hospitals where children die of cancer. 
Need the weight of human suf­fering discourage us? Only on bad <jays, when faith is weak. A strong Christian faith trusts the Cross to which Love was nailed as our bridge over troubled waters. Isaiah, writing of Christ before His birth, told us He would be a suffering servant. 
The Church began when water and blood flowed from the side of the wounded Lamb of God. Easter promised us a victory in which the flesh will share when the sad, suffering rags of the human condition are trans­formed into vestments of light. 
The saints in glory have perfect faith. The saints on earth, still climbingJacob's ladder, can lose touch with God in those dark ranting and raving, may soon be nights of the soul when it is al­telling lies. ways three o'clock in the mor­Arguments, in which Injustice ning, day after day. A common and unfairness are clearer than Christian would have to be stupid the logic, are not a service to to be unaware of the crises which God. Hatred has a hundred faces; he describes as being put but odium theologicum wears through a wringer, running in a the mask of an angel of light rat race, in "the pits." Food, wine, while doing the devll's work for love, friendship, beauty, music, him. Odium theologlcum goes sleep, and the rest, keep him on here as a game played by from morbidity and a sense of amateurs, some of whom don't defeat. Grace in his soul keeps care enough about theology to him hopeful that the best is yet do the homework which is nec­to come. essary if they want their letters 

What, then, is truth? Truth may and articles to make sense. eventually mean the experience of being possessed Ly God; but Nineteen-and 20-year-olds to begin with, truth is a hold on have no way of knowing how reality, a consciousness of the hard the war-scarred senior impermanence and unreliabiity Christians have fought the good of the visible frames and struc­fight. In a nicer world, students tures holding up creation, which would always respect the gray the Master of the universe has hairs. No one can excuse them given us with a lick and a prom­ise, along with directions to pie in the sky by-and-bye. We would be ingrates to hate the good earth under our feet. All of it, the sun, the moon, and the firma­if they fall in the duty of charity. 
If you believe in God, you will know that love is His primary im­perative. Ifyou live without faith, try to be sensitive to an insight you'll appreciate more when you're older: if the love binding creatures together fails, many people will feel like the shorn lamb for which the wind is not tempered. Heartbreak is a sen­timental word for despair at being unloved which finally be­comes terminal. 
On the day you feel like taking cheap shots, remember that yours could be the straw that breaks the camel's back. As a nice human being, you don't want that on your conscience. Forgive the preaching. Have a nice break. Darby O'Gill and I never.said we did•l't love you. 
ment, works together as a chorus RHtaurant And Cocktail Lounge declaring the glory of God. 
Authentk: SzechUM'Iand Hunan Tute 
Notre Dame students get very heated in their defense of the Lunches starting at. ______s2.95 truth. What truth does any Chris­tian know thatjustifies his abuse, 
Celebrate football weekends at the
in speech or print, of another 

· GreatWall
person? Before shouting anyone down, I should look in his face oo'fs

ne(\ 1 \#.. Dinnen starting at. _______s4.25
to see the pain there. I should look at myself, to control the fear O'l"' 'f'l00 lar open 7 days a week
0 .....Tllurs.: 11:30 •.•.-10 p.&which could make me behave Frl..s.t.: 11:30 LM.-11 ,.•. like a bully. Gentleness may not S.W. & lloil4ays 11 :30 L•.-1 0 IJ.& 
Next to Randall.s Inn 272-7376 
always be possible or desirable; but anger, used as an excuse for South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 
Here's looking 
Now, you can at you, kid!! look &feel great all yearI 
Call us at 
272-7653 


J1 ··~'"·"·­


SERVE IN APPALACHIA 
Single Catholic Men Serving Others 
Your practical help to the elderly, handicapped and poor in Appalachia can make a difference. Single Catholic men are invited to volunteer one week to learn, more about the culture and people of the area. 
December 15-21, 1986 December 27, 1986-January 2, 1987 

DISCERNMENT WEEK 
Single Catholic Men ThinkingofMinistry 
This very unique experience will provide you with the atmosphere to reflect and pray on your vocational calling. You will have the opportunity to learn more about yourself, rural America and Glenmary's ministry. 
January 5-11, 1987 
For more information about the: Winter Volunteer Program 0 . and/or 0 Discernment Week, please send this coupon to: Brother Jack Henn, Glenmary Home MISSioners, P.O. Box 465618, Cincinnati, OH 45246-5618. 
Name ______ ____________ Age ____ Address 
-----------------· 

City ______ __ State _____ Zip ________ Telephone ( ) __________ ---·-· ______ College ----------------=~~ 
032·10/86 

Weekend Edition, October 17-18, 1986 

take the blame for the losses. The players 
have been coached very well -its the men­
tal breakdowns that have caused the 

continuedfrom page 1 problems. 
Kleine 
The repetitive nature of the problems is "If we did things exactly the way they making Kleine's role slightly more diffi­coached us, like staying in our lanes, cult. After the Michigan State contest, staying low, wrap up on tackles," he says, Kleine acknowledged that the frustration "I think we'd be in a better position right was mounting. But to deal with it, hejust now." blocks it out of his mind. 
Kleine's experiences this season should "We still have to focus on the future, and help as he looks beyond Notre Dame. not dwell on the past," he says. Armed with a degree in ALPA and 
graduate work towards his MBA ·he is Kleine is definitely the leader in this prepared for other challenges if a pro respect. With only three home games left career does not work out. But with his in his Notre Dame career, he is not about size, strength, and leadership ability, the to let the team slack off. NFL appears to be in his future. 
"I want to make it count," he says. "I think "I have dreams about beinf! a profes­ali of our seniors do. That's why you'll sional player," he says. "But I don't worry see an attitude on this team that were about "that at all. I've got plenty to worry not giving up." about right now. 
Blame is another issue Kleine has ad­"And I feel like if I play well, and do my 


dressed. He thinks it is crazy for Holtz to best here, the rest will take care of itself." Wally Kleine 
Time Capsule 


Air Force grounds Notre Dame 
Falcon ground game rolls by Irish 
By MARTY STRASEN with 141 yards, set up the first Air Force touchdown with Assistant Sports Editor gains of 11 and 28 yards, before plowing over from the five-yard line to give his squad a 6-0 lead in the first quarter. 
If any game truly typified the Air Force Academy's dominance Early in the second quarter, Notre Dame punter Mike Viracola over Notre Dame in the last four meetings of the two teams, pinned the Falcons deep in their own end, and the Irish got 
it was the 1984 contest at Notre Dame Stadium. the ball back in good field position at the Air Force 4 7. Grooms connected on four-of-five passes for 30 yards in the drive, including a two-yard toss to Milt Jackson which tied the score. 
But to call that 21-7 Irish loss a 'contest' would be to Incor­A John Carney extra point gave Notre Dame its only lead of rectly imply that Notre Dame put up a fight. That was not the the ballgame at 7-6. case, as Head Coach Gerry Faust suffered his third consecu­tive loss to the Falcons and their powerful wishbone offense. Air Force came right back. however, marching 76 yards on 
the next drive for a touchdown on Johnny Smith's one-yard The Irish, led by second-string quarterback Scott Grooms plunge. A halfback pass from Mike Brown to Hugh Brennan (Steve Beuerlein was injured), fumbled the ball five times in for the two-point conversion put the Falcons on top, 14-7, the first half. Four ofthose fumbles resulted from mishandled at the half. 
snaps from center, and three of them were on first down ­preventing the offense from· getting anything going. Notre Dame just could not seem to move the ball in the 
second half either, and a five-yard touchdown run by Weiss The Falcons, meanwhile, were running ali over the Notre late in the game put this one out of reach. Dame defense. Quarterback Bart Weiss had to air up the ball 
only six times in the game, as Air Force racked up 371 yards The Irish finished the game with 117 yards passing and only on the ground. 90 yards on the ground. And for the third time In as many years, the Air Force had flown through the Gerry Faust­JodySimmons, the leading Falcon ground-gainer in the game skippered Notre Dame football team and blown It away. 
Falcons 
continuedfrom page 4 
also provides the Falcons with strength and quickness on the line. All four linebackers for Air Force -Brady Glick. Makl, Jeff Weathers, and E.J. Jones-are seniors. As a unit, the Falcons hold op­ponents to 77.7 yards per game rushihg, and less than 2.5 yards per carry. Last week. they held Navy's Chuck Smith, who came into the Air Force game the nation's top rusher averaging 150 yards a game, to only 40 yards in 1 7 carries. 
If there is a weakness, it lies in the Air Force secondary. But even that is decep­tive. While the Falcons have given up 
245.2 yards per game through the air, that statistic has to be put In the context of the pass-happy Westen Athletic Con­ference. 
The secondary and pass-rush are solid. Senior cornerbacks Tom Rotella and Mike Toliver anchor a defensive backfield that has intercepted 11 passes so far this season. Rotella, who is the all-time inter­ception leader at Air Force, has five of that total, and has also broken up five more. 
"People just aren't going to sit there and pick them apart throwing the ball nor are you going to be able to maintain the ball on a consistent basis running because they run an awful lot of different defenses," says Holtz. 
"They never make a mental error. Defen­sively they aren't going to give up a lot of points, and they haven't." 
Look for some changes offensively for the Irish, mainly caused by injuries. Soph­omore starting tailback Mark Green, who suffered a severe thigh bruise against Pitt, will be replaced by 6-1, 220-pound fresh­man Anthony Johnson. Braxston Banks (6-2, 208), yet another freshman, should see more time at fullback behind starter Pernell Taylor. It is doubtful whether 

Tom Rotella 

Green, who leads the Irish with 186 yards rushing, will see any action Saturday. 
The big issue, as always, will be at quar­terback. Steve Beuerlein will get the start­ing nod for Notre Dame against Air Force, his concussion against Alabama keeping him out ofonly three offensive series last week against Pitt. 
"At the present time, Steve Beuerlein gets us the best plays in the most opportune times and is the most consistent doing that," says Holtz. 

Irish Extra, page 4 Weekend Edition, October 17-18, 1986 
vs.





TheGame 
~ 


By TERRY LYNCH 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame vs. Air Force. It sure conjures up some great memories In Irish football history, doesn't It? 
Maybe you remember last year, when the Falcons' Terry Maki broke through the Irish line late in the fourth quarter to block a John Carney field goal attempt, and Maki's teammate, A.J. Scott, picked up the ball and running 77 yards for the win­ning touchdown. Maybe you remember all 13 penalties against the Irish, most of which aiding the Falcons In repelling the Irish offense from their end zone. 
If you have a really good memory, you might recall the record crowd at Falcon Stadium (aided by portable stands) and that the game was on national television, providing the Falcons with exposure never seen before In their history. 
However, and rather sadly, It is only the Irish football master who can remember the last time Notre Dame came away from the Air Force game with a win. With last year's victory over the Irish, the Falcons are on the verge of joining the ranks of only two other teams who have managed to beat the Irish five years in a row. Mic­higan State (1959-63) and Southern Cal (1978-82) are the only other Irish oppo­nents to have accomplished that feat. 
If your memory is kind, you might re­member the good old days when Air Force was an annual patsy on Notre Dame's schedule and would quietly slip away to defeat. That happened the first I I times Notre Dame and Air Force played. 
No one team contrasts the recent Irish misfortunes on the football field than does Air Force. Where Notre Dame is slow, Air Force is quick. Where Notre Dame self­destructs, Air Force executes flawlessly. When Notre Dame fails to take advantage of its opponents' mistakes, Air Force is exceptionally opportunistic. 
Lou Holtz is familiar with Irish problems in his first matchup with the Falcons. 
"Looking ahead to Air Force is never a very pleasant thing," says Holtz. "The Air Force football team does all the little things the right way, is talented, and also plays with exceptional poise. (It) really does the things you have to do to win." 
Will the fact that the Irish haven't beaten the Falcons in four years be a motivating factor this Saturday? 

"I don't think I have to say an awful lot about that," answers Holtz. "The main thing we want to do is we just want to win. I'm tired of it. I know the players are tired of it. It's unbelieveable the way the players have hung in there over this thing. 
"We have a lot of respect for the Air Force team and they've beaten us the last four years, but they've also beaten us basically with the same things that have caused us to experience some failures this year. 
"Our players don't need to be reminded we've lost." 
Pat Evans. 
Air Force's offense vs. 
Notre Dame's defense 
Since Air Force has risen to national prominence, it's stuck to one style of of­fense -the wishbone. Air Force head coach Fisher DeBerry prefers to keep the ball on the ground, where the 5-1 Falcons have averaged 232 yards per game rush­ing compared to only 92.5 passing. The Falcons have piled up 28.8 points per game and are coming offofan Impressive 40-6 thumping of Navy. 
Directing the ground attack for Air Force will be junior quarterback Jim Totnallo (17-of-36 passing for 346 yards, two TDs, 
and three INTs). The 5-11, 176-pound Tomallo, who stepped in at quarterback after the lone Air Force loss against Wyoming, was inserted mainly for his ability to execute the option consistently. He has guided the Falcons to three straight wins. 
When Tomallo hands off, the ball will go to a host ofAir Force backs from the same "slow-but-gritty'' cookie cutter that has haunted the Irish In the last four meetings. Seniors Pat Evans (114 carries for 458 yds., five TDs) at fullback and Mark Munafo (72 for 348 yds., five TDs) 
Photo Courtesy Air Force Sports Information Dept. 
at left halfback lead the Falcon running game, but by no means can they be keyed on to stop the varied Falcon attack. Senior right halfbackJohnny Smith and his back­. up, sophomore Albert Booker, join Evans and Munafo in averaging over four yards 
per carry. 
Senior wide receiver Tyrone Jeffcoat (11 
catches for 211 yds., one TO) leads Fal­
con receiving corps, but look for Munafo 
(eight for I22 yds.) and Smith (six for 88 
yds.) to come out of the backfield In third 
down passing situations. 
On defense, the Irish will try to bounce back after allowing the Pitt offense to roll up 3I0 yards passing, I 00 yards over the Irish defense's average. However, they held Pitt to only 2.3 yards rushing and that should figure to be more important against the wishbone. 

"One of the problems you have with the wishbone is the more you know about it, the less chance you have to defend it, maybe," says Holtz, who has been known to use the wishbone on some of his op­ponents in the past. 
"You cannot defend the wishbone on the blackboard. You can only defend it with execution and your people whipping some people's blocks." 
Brandy Wells has joined Mike Haywood on the sidelines for the rest of the season, depleting the already-thin Irish defense. Defensive tackle JeffKunz suffered a con­cussion against Pitt and will probably not play much this week. Robert Banks, recovering from a hamstring pull he suf­fered against Alabama, should return to the line. 
That means the depth chart will come out to play for the Irish. Freshman Jeff Aim will be backing up Banks this week. joined by classmates Stan Smagala and PatTer­rell in the secondary. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Air Force's defense 
When the gun sounded after last year's game against the Falcons, the verdict was that the Irish offense was the Falcon defense's star player. Certainly the self­destruct button was worn out by Notre Dame last year, but Air Force may have more than Notre Dame's bad luck on its side. It also has some good football players. 
Senior linebacker Terry Maki did it all last year, collecting 30 tackles (I9 of them solo) and blocking a field goal that turned into Air Force's winning touchdown. For his efforts, Sports Illustrated named the 6-3, 235-pound Maki defensive player of the week. 
"Maki is a young man that finds the foot­ball," says Holtz. "I think he's as good a linebacker as yu're going to find. 
"He givs them tremendous underneath coverage. It's very difficult to throw the football inside as well as Maki plays the football." 
Junior defensive tackle Chad Hennings 
see FALCONS, page 3 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS
picked by the sports editor and Marty Burns Mike Szymanski Andrea LaFreniere Marty Strasen Mary DiStanisiao Bill Sullivan 
pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner 
Asst. Sports Editor Sports Wrlter SMC Sports Editor Asst. Sports Editor Sports Editor Ouest Celebrity Random Student and give the underdog points. .36-.3.3-1 .35-.34-1 .32-.37-1 .30-.39-1 27-42-1 29-.30-1 .30-.39-1 Home team is in CAPS. .522 .507 .464 .4.35 ..391 .420 .4.35 (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: I 0-4-0) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 8-6-0) (last week: 6-8-0) (last week: 7-7-0) (last week: 9-6-0) 
N. CAROLINA over N.C. State by 11 Wolfpack Tar Heels Wolfpack Tar Heels Tar Heels Tar Heels Tar Heels MICHIGAN over Iowa by 7.5 Hawkeyes Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Wolverines Hawkeyes Alabama over TENNessEE by 10.5 Volunteers Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Volunteers Crimson Tide AUBURN over Georgia Tech by 16.5 Tigers Yellow Jackets Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Yellow Jackets OKLAHOMA over Oklahoma St. by 34 Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys Cowboys NEBRASKA over Missouri by 35.5 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Cornhuskers Cornhuskers SO. METHODIST over Houston by 15 Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs 
USC over Arizona St. by 1.5 Trojans Trojans Trojans Sun Devils Trojans Sun Devils Trojans LOUISIANA ST. over KENTUCKY by 6.5 Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tigers Tlg~rs Miami (Fla.) over CINCINNATI BY 28 Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Bearcats Arkansas over TEXAS by 8 Longhorns Razorbacks Razorbacks Longhorns Razorbacks Longhorns Razorbacks TEXAS A&M over Baylor by 6.5 Aggles Aggles Aggles Bears Aggles Bears Bears ARIZONA over Oregon St. by 26 Beavers Beavers Beavers Wildcats Wildcats Beavers Beavers NOTRE DAME over Air Force by 9.5 Irish Falcons Irish Irish Falcons Irish Irish 


~j~~J?._<>__i_ll~t------------------------------------------------------~F~rid~a~y--S~a~tu=r~d~ay~,~O~c~to~b~e~r~1~7~-1~8~,~1~98~6=,-·~p=a~g~e~9 
[~ P.O.BoxQ 
Other campus groups join in RASTA's cause 
Dear Editor: 
This is written in response to the Oct. 14 article on RASTA. 
The goals of RASTA are highly com­mendable: providing aid to starving people and promoting African culture. What is unfortunate is that former RASTA member Rafael Benavente doubts that other groups share these goals. Imagine that! Nonetheless, rumor has It that there is a group, on this very campus, with remarkably similar aims. The distin­guished organization of which I speak is none other than the Black Cultural Arts Council. If, after learning of this, Mr. Benavente still insists that the goals of other organizations can't possibly match "what we (RASTA) were after", then my question to him is: Just what were you after? 
May I ask a few more questions? When Sean Evers, also a former RASTA mem­ber, said that one of RASTA's goals was promoting African culture, was his use of the word "African" synonymous with or in any obscure way related to the wor.d "Black"? I thought sol I also think that It doesn't take a genius to figure out what the "B" in "B.C.A.C." stands for. 
RASTA's goal of aiding starving people has generated yet another rumor: Man does not live by bread alone. I, for one, wish that communication, understand­Ing. Integration and love for our fellow man were on the menu. I hunger for these "foods". And, So-and-so said that other students have similar craving. Will you look at all these rumors? 
If it is possible to feed my brothers and 
sisters who are thousands of miles away 
across ever-so-distant water, then surely 
It Is possible to "feed" those of us who 
are only a quad away! Enough said. 
Vivian Croswell President Black Cultural Arts Council 

Vatican was justified in carrying out threats 
Dear Editor: 
I have followed with interest all of the 
debate which has ensued after the 
Vatican's decision to strip Fr. Curran of 
his authority to teach theology. I under­
stand the basic point of conflict to center 
on Curran's denial of objectively immoral 
behavior. Instead, he opts for immanence 
of Intention in determining morality. This 
leads directly to situational morality, an 
Insidious and rationally bankrupt method 
to decide one's actions. 
While much of the debate concerning 
the dismissal of Fr. Curran has dealt with 
a university's right to academic integrity, 
this focus seems to completely Ignore the 
reason for the Vatican's actions. The 
Church had repeatedly warned Fr. Curran 
to suppress his own opinion when teach­
Ing with the authority of a catholic theo­
logian. He did not. He was silenced. 
People were outraged by the aut­
horitarianism exercised by the Vatican. I 
applaud it. Fr. Curran's views are ex­
tremely appealing. especially to someone 
such as myself who is constantly falling 
short of what could be considered Chris­
tian behavior (a fact to which people who 
know me will readily attest). The Church 
has the duty to define proper moral be­
havior in order to provide an option to 
behavior endorsed by a society which en­courages intellectual pride and selfish­ness. The Church provides standards of behavior which lead us to fulfillment of God's intended plan for every individual. Given the enormity of this responsibility it comes as no suprise that the Church will be forced to censure proponents of evil behavior. 
Paul Douglas Morrissey Hall 

ROTC trains to defend freedom and religion 
Dear Editor: 
The letter by Jay Dolan on Oct. 16 reveals a lack of understanding which seems to be common at Notre Dame. Dolan feels that the presence of a War Memorial and ROTC here is incongruous with our catholicism. Nothing could be further from the truth. 
Those men to whom the War Memorial 
Is dedicated gave their lives for our cat­
holicism. Unfortunately, others had to be 
killed in order to defend our faith and 
freedom of faith. 
As for ROTC, we should be proud that Notre Dame supports one of the largest programs in the country. These men and women are training to dedicate their lives to the preservation of freedom and cat­holicism. If not for these "catholic war­riors", the United States would probably be an atheistic, communistic country. 
It Is most unfortunate that men like 
Dolan are doomed to be kept free by bet­
ter men than themselves. 
David COndron Sophomore Air Force ROTC cadet 

Ordination of women may not be the answer 
Dear Editor: 
Chris Julka must do a little more homework before he wades into such emotional. controversial waters. It is true, there are no theological reasons prevent­ing the ordination of women to pries­thood, though the Vatican document In­ter insigniores (1976) hedges a bit on this point. drawing Its conclusions from the fact of unbroken tradition (a point which could be questioned in its own right) to the will of God for the Church. 
However, the document does draw at­
tention, albeit unintentionally, to the real 
issue at stake in this emotional debate. 
Simply admitting women to the mini­
sterial priesthood as it exists today would 
be an Impossibility, since the framework 
of meaning. mediated by symbol, on 
which the ministerial priesthood rests is 
overwhelmingly patriarchal. The Church 
is, unfortunately, a "man's Church" as 
Julka points out. but in ways far deeper 
than he realizes. And simply laying hands 
on women and calling them "priests" will 
not solve this problem, but will rather 
compound it. 
No, what Is truly called for is a re­examination of the very symbolic basis of Church and Order, something which is already underway In the work of people like Rosemary Ruether and other fine theologians. They realize, unlike those who would take a mere affective stance, what is really at stake here. Granted, this is a tough, uphill battle, especially since the current Roman regime believes that the issue is closed. But it is a battle worth fighting. for the end result will be a new understanding and new Church that will resemble even more closely the Kingdom of God. 
Fr. Fintan Steele, 0.S. B. Graduate student-Biological Sciences 

Group must appreciate 
the culture it promotes 
I am writing in response to the "Banned Group Looking at Options" article that appeared in the Tuesday, October 14, 1986 issue ofThe Observer. In the article, former co-leader Sean Evers defined two goals of the organization. 
Esther Ivory 
guest column 
The first goal. to "aid starving people" is by far the most publicized goal of the organization. This purpose is even reflected in the name of the group, Rally Against Starvation (RASTA). The group is to be commended for undertaking this task. 
However, I have a problem with the second goal Evers mentioned: "promote the culture ofAfrica". Since when did this become a goal of Rally Against Star va­tion? Perhaps I may be mistaken, but this Is not what the group was known for, nor was It what Rally Against Starvation ac­tively promoted. 
To "aid starving people" Is a monumen­tal task In Itself. But It seems that Evers Is stretching the capabilities of Rally Against Starvation when he asserts that one of the goals Is also to "promote the culture of Africa". Don't misunderstand, I am not :saying that the two goals can't be achieved by an organization. But I am strongly opposed to the group's meth­ods, approach and perspective on the goal to "promote the culture of Africa". 
(Yes I am aware of the African Art Show which was sponsored by Rally Against Starvation last year. But the concept be­hind the Art Show seems unrelated to the other activities, which consisted mainly of fund raising.) 
Before I go any further, a clariflcation is necessary. What does It mean to "promote the culture of Africa"? As I in­terpret this, It means promoting the cul­ture of a grouptace of peple In Africa-­specifically Black Aflcan Culture. This is directly related to 2.35 students on campus who have Black African roots (myself included). Since the ancestors of these students assimilated into America, they are referred to in the United States as African-American, Afro-American or Black American. For simplicity's sake, to "promote the culture of Africa" is to promote Black American Culture. The two are so closely linked by ancestoral bonds, that they can not be separated. 
According to the article, "Evers said possible options include working through an existing campus group with compati­ble goals ... But former RASTA member Rafael Benavente said he doubted other groups could achieve the banned group's goals." Benavente was quoted as saying. "I don't think the goals of other groups could match what we were after." Are you sure about this? 

The article mentioned the Overseas De­velopment Network. I seems that their goals would be compatible with Rally Against Starvation's goal to "aid starving people". 
But what about the other goal, to "promote the culture of Africa". Though they were not mentioned In the article, there are established groups on campus with the same goal, namely, the Black Cultural Arts Council, Black Cultural Arts Festival and the Notre Dame Chapter of the National Association for the Advance­ment of Colored People (NAACP). To my knowledge, the members and leaders of these organizations are unaware that Rally Against Starvation has also decided to "promote the culture of Africa". 
I am not opposed to Rally Against Starvation asserting this as a goal. But do to the nature and composition of Rally Against Starvation , it seems essential for the group to have some communication, association andlor cooperation with the established groups on campus who promote black culture. 
The bottom line is this: no one knows 
more about African culture than one of African heritage. If I am not mistaken, Rally Against Starvation has no members who tit this description. This concerns me because Rally Against Starvation is at­tempting to promote a culture which its member do not truly understand. How can the group present an accurate view of African culture without some knowl­edge of what it is promoting? 
Thus, the vital question: Is Rally Against Starvation promoting "the culture of Africa" or is It promoting what it THINKS is "the culture of Africa". 
Do not misinterpret this as a black and white racial question. That is not the issue. I merely want to call attention to the Rally Against Starvation's perspective, methods and approach to the proclaimed goal to "promote the culture of Africa". 1 urge the members to carefully consider the implications of the group's assertion. 
Esther Ivory is a senior Oovemmen&CAPP mqjor and Chairperson of the Black Cul­tural Arts Festival 

USTEN! JUST fS I SUSPECTED! 
COWAUNl~ 
Tf!NKS! 


General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editqr . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Welmholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
--~

fr---------~~--~--~ 

The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 1 7-18, 1986, · page 10 


Sports Briefs 
WVfi·AM 64 will provide live coverage of tomorrow's Notre Dame-Air Force football game. Kevin Herbert and Rick Rietbrock call the action from Notre Dame Stadium. Studio host Frank Mastro will update college football scores through­out the afternoon. It all starts at 11 a.m. with the pre-game show featuring "College Football Today," "The Lou Holtz Show," and "Irish Review." -The Observer 
A pep rally will be held tonight at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
-The Observer 

The ND tleld hockey team will take a four-game road trip during break. Tuesday, the Irish take on Lowell, followed by Bently (Wednesday), Holy Cross (Thursday) and Gordon (Saturday). -The Observer 
The ND women's tennis team continues its play at the Rolex qualifier Friday and Saturday. Next Friday, the Irish will host the North Star Conference championships which continue through the following Sunday. -The Observer 
Notre Dame powers past Tri-State behind the 'smorgasbord lineup' 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Sports Writer 
Playing its first game in almost two weeks after three ralnouts, the Notre Dame baseball team defeated Tri-State, 9-5, Friday to raise Its fall record to 4-1. 
The Irish spotted Tri-State an early lead on a three-run homer offstarterJohn Dimpet then tied the score In the home half of the first inning behind Chris Flynn's home run. Flynn's blast scored Pat Pesavento and Scott Rogers. 
"I think the guys may have been taking Tri-State a little light­ly, but after they hit the three-run homer, our guys realized they couldn't just throw their gloves out there to. win," said Head Coach Larry Gallo. 

Dimpel settled down and al­lowed no more runs in the next two Innings. He was relieved by the two freshman phenoms, Brian Piotrowlcz and Mike Coffey. Piotrowicz allowed one earned run over four innings to record the win, and Coffey gave up one unearned run In three Innings. 
Notre Dame took the lead for good In the second Inning with an RBI double by Pesavento and an RBI single by Rogers to make the score 5-3. 
The Irish broke open a close 5-4 game in the seventh Inning. Notre Dame scored four runs be· hind stolen bases by catchers Pat O'Brien and Craig Pavlina, and run-scoring hits by Gary Leonard, Jerry Reddy, and Casey Moore. 
Because Notre Dame had not played for so long. the game went ten Innings .to get more players in the game. Over 20 players saw action for the Irish. 
"We played so many people it was like a scrimmage," said Oal­lo. "We got to use a lotofyounger players and a lot of different combinations. We used a smor­gasbord lineup." 
Notre Dame continues its fall season with a Blue-Gold in­trasquad game at 3 p.m. Friday at Jake Kline Field. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu~ dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classlfieds must be prepaid, either in person or by rnail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordproceulng·Typing 272-8827 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 
STEPPING STONE STABLE ollera In· atructlon In Draaaege and Jumping. Indoor arena. 10 minutes from campue. 883-3068 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7oog, 
WEDNESDAY OCTOBER 22 Ia NMMC night II lraland'l Four Provlncea 3412 Conn. Ave. NW Waalngton, D.C. Ba there or be equere. 
LOSTIFOUND 
LOST: A SET OF KEYS IN A MAROON CASE, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 158A STEPHEN CHEMISTRY AND WASH­INGTON HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CONTACT CARRIE, 345 BREEN· PHILUPS, 1337. 
PLEASE HELP ME-I'M LOCED OUT 0 MY DORMIIIOII my DETEX at the flret pep rally. If youfound qne, ple11e cell me beclu11 I have the Identify· lng numbere. REWARD. call Sharon x1689. 
LOST: One white folder In South Dining Hall. I've already flunked my American Conalltutlonellaw teat. But I'm kind of fond of that folder eo I'd 11111 like to get It beck. If found, call 1542. RIDERS NEEDED: TO THE PIT· TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK­1310 
LOST: A LONG TAN TRENCHCOAT AT THE CENTURY CENTER FRIDAY, OCT.10 AT LEMANS SYR.IF ANYONE HAS SEEN IT PLEASE CALL JOLENE AT 284-4406. 
LOST GOLD-TONE PEN ON 1D-14-88 IN THE ADM. LOG. OR ON WAY TO LIBRARY. IT HAS GREAT SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE, AND WOULD APPRECI­ATE ITS RETURN. CONTACT DAVID VERRINDER, HISTORY DEPT, 348 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
Loll Gold Watch Manufacturer Buc­herer If you find It cell Belay at 2158 or drop It ott at Lewt1 241. Thanka 
LOST-Blue KIIZllna jean jacket on Green Field Set. after the game near the backetop. If found pleau call Moira £1287. 
LOST: One box of Maclntoeh dlaka. 5 dlake, of pereonel value only pleau return to John 1223. Rew11,. et ollered. 
Loet: A gold necklace with pendent of Bllllld Mother aomewhere around Stepan Flelda. OF GREAT SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE.Pieau eiiLiaa 283-3824. Thenka and have a good deyl 
LOST: BLACK QE CASSETTE RADIO FROM TAILGATE ON SATURDAY. MIX TAPE TOO. CALL BOOEY 284-4138. 

STOLEN during NO-Pitt game, Canon T-70 camera wt1 OD-200mm lena. If you know eny1hlng about thla, cell Bob at 3305 
LOST AFTER PITT GAME: 2 CAMERAS IN 02 PARKING. I NEED THEM BACK. THE FILM INCLUDES BLACK MALE PICTURES. REWARD! PLEASE CALL KEN £2009 
HEY RAY You called me end eeld your parenta found my puree. Where did they leave 11. Help mal I need my 1.0. end other eeNnllale. CALL MEl MOLLY (megen) 284-5474 
LOST: One gold necklace with 3 charm• ("Precloue," e half-heart and a cro11). Of GREAT eentlmentel value­-a reward 11 avellablel Please cell Lin at 2882, 218 Lyone. 
Dirk blueaoflbell jackal wee removed Friday nlght(Oct.1oth) from Senior Bar. Deacrlptlon: The left cheet had "Brendan" and a pitch "USC Softball Champlona" Alao • patch on the left and right aluvae, "1at place" end "2nd place". If found pl1111 11nd to: Brendan McGuire 1218 Rolling Meadow Rd. Pltteburgh PA 15241 
~-FO_R_R_EN_T~' 
Two room fumlahed apt. privata en­trance ulllltlea paid 288-0955 morn· lnge. 
WANTED 

Federal, State end Civil Service )obi now available In your area. For Info. cell(805) 844-9533 Dept. 1389. 
NEED RIDER TO MINNEAPOLIS FOR OCTOBER BREAK. LEAVING SUN· DAY. CALL FRAN AT 4404. 
I NEED 3 AIR FORCE G.A.'S·$$-CALL JOE-£1737 
• 

HOUSESITTING POSITION WANTED. Mlealonary MD femlly neld1 houalng Jan-May. Experienced hou11elttere. Ref avail. 2811-8883 
SPRINGBREAK '87 Campua Rep. Organize Selling Charter a Ft. lauderdale to Bahamaa Commlaelon & Free Crulu Cell Captain Wllllema 1850 SW 23rd Terrence Ft. Lauderdale 33312 (305)583.0202 Any11me 
Wanted: Babyaltter. Part-time, flexible houre. Knollwood. Phone Kathy Dvorak, 277-1538. 
RIDE NEEDEDII: TO THE PIT· TSBURGH AREA OVER BREAK CALL JOHN 3ooa 
ATTENTION TAILGATERS Are your folka coming from the North Shore thll -kend? I am coming back to cempue Saturday morning for the game, and need • ride. If you can help, plelu call Jell at 277-8MO. 
Telephone Work Available for Stu­dante Full or Part time Apply at 50985 US 31 N or cell 2778882 Pleaaent con­dhlone 
NEED RIDE TO NEW ORLEANS, WILL SHARE USUAL,LEAVE OCT.18,17,0R 18 RETURN 2827 DAN 3478 
HANDYMAN wanted -Yaodwork, re­palrl, apeclel pro)ect1. Available on Saturdaya. Drlvere llcenu and Irena· porlltlon required. £289-9975 after 8:00. 
RIDE NEEDED TO COLUMBUS,OH­FRI AFTER 3. SOPHIE £2814 
WANTED PART· TIME SALES PERSON FOR EVENINGS & SOME CLERICAL WORK. APPLY IN PERSON AT SHOELAND NO., 50898 U.S. 31 N., FROM 4-8 P.M. 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5888. 
RADAR DETECTORS Maxon RD1, ea edvertleed In Nawa-k, but only $95.00 Qat youre before bruk, and uve on tlckata. Plenty of atock on hand. Call Alfredo ~72-8582 or John 
2&3-1223. 


I~__T_IC_K_B_S~ 
In nud of SMU Tlx Call Jay x2174 
$$ I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE QA'S SS DAN 3273 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'B-famlly'e Itrat vial! CALL 272-3483. 
Parente want to party at NO, Need 4 AF GA'a and 8 SMU GA'I. Call Dave at 2271 
Need 2 GAl for Air Force Call Jim 11 283-1874 
Make eure my perenfa pay aecond ae­meeter tuition ao I can get out of thll place. Sell me 2 GAa for Penn State 10 they can experience NO football. Cell Mark at 2339. 
SELLING 2 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL SCOTT 1352 
Need Air Force tlcketa. Call 283-2325. 
Need Two G.A. Tlx for AIR FORCE. Pay Big Bucka. Cell Joe Alter 8 p.m. 287-4581 
HELPI DAD IS COMINGIII Need Penn Stele Tlxl Call Jim at 277· 7547 
ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX-513· 881-9341 AFTER 5. 
I'm deeperelel I need TWO GA'1 for the AIR FORCE game, or I'm a DEAD MAN. call Mike at 3104. 
Will pay MAJOR BUCKS for 4 PENN ST GA'1 10 family can wltne.. the IRISH make the LIONS MEOWI Call Andy-x1243 
NEED 3 PENN STATE GA'III CALL ROB ENRIGHT AT 232-81117 
NEED 1·5 GAS OR STD TIX FOR SMU AND PSU CALL PAUL 1758 
·.........................Fooi:isH··;.;·oFiiii:&::: 
The YOCKMONSTER nelda 4 Penn 
State GAa and 4 etud. tlx to lure un­
auapectlng human ucrlflce vlctlma to 
NOI 
CALL 232-5478 to make 1 deal with 
the Devlll 
...THERE IS NO ESCAPEIII 
I NEED AIR FORCE GAe.272-8306 
................................................................ 
AIR FORCE GAs FOR SALE.277.0298 
atlll nud 2-3 GA'a for AIR FORCE call Chrle x1371 
HEY HEY HEYIIT'S NICE II have FOUR AIR FORCE GAl. BUY THEM. pleaae. Cell Amy at 283-2840. I have en anewarlng machine. Thanka. 
IT'S FIXED My phone Ia finally fixed, 10 everyone who tried to cell me laet w"k to 1111 me your AIR FORCE GA can call me now at 2443. Aak for Mike 
NEED 2 GAl AND 1 STUDENT TICKET FOR PENN STATE WILLING TO MAKE A GOOD DEAL CALL CHRIS OR JACK AT 1768 
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE QAa. 234­8984 or 239-7943 
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL COLLEEN 284-5132 
YES, I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE THINK­ING...ANOTHER HAPLESS PLEA FOR TICKETS Well... you're right my elater and 4 (count 'em four) of her female frlendl are coming from VILLANOVA to -what NO Ia like They would like to -NO take on Penn State If you can help me help them have a good time pleeu cell Bill 2497 
PERSONALS 
Chrlatlan theology contradict• Deuteronomy 28; theological anti· Samltlem va. the doctrine of the "reaurrectlon of the dead" taugh1 by Jeaue. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, IN 48834-4475. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
Going to, near, or lhru Atlanta? Dllparetely need a ride for Fell Break I Call Rob at1548. Will more then ahere 
expanaea. 
To Kerry end Thereu In london The Wildflower• are alive end well end living at NO WE MISS YOU AND LOVE YOUIIIII New Hempehlre on Jan. 1 ?Ill K & MB 
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T· SHIRTS 
A VERY MINIMAL AMOUNT OF NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS LEFT. MEDIUMS vNLY $8, LARGE ARE FOR $8. CALL 272·3932 FOR INFORMA· TION. 
NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB T· SHIRTS 

MA & PA HOWARD: SORRY I MISSED YUI CARE PACKAGES:Aee LOVE ALWAYS, DY 
DAVE: SAME HERE 
GMATSGREAT MEN ALWAYS TOLERATE SARCASM GOOD LUCK· XX 
DON'T CRY FOR MY ARGENTINA, I ALREADY HAVE MY TICKETS FOR "EVITA" SUNDAY, NOV. 2, O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, SAINT MARY'S. GOOD SEATS STILL AVAIL­ABLE AT THE BOX OFFICE. 284-4828. 
Thank you St. Jude 
MISSED YOU WEDNESDAY. YOU KNOW YOU'RE VERY SPECIAL, DON'T YOU? HOPE TO SEE YOU BEFORE BREAK, BUT IF I DON'T, HAVE A GREAT TRIP, ENJOY THE SUN, AND BE GOOD. VICTOR. 
OCT. 191 "Merkua" Have a great birthday & good luck In Waah. D.C.I love,P&M 
SMC FRENCH CLUB SPONSORING A TRIP TO A WINERY SAT. NOV.1, $&9ERSON. FOR MORE INFO, CALL HILLERY 284-5233. 
ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO FLORIDA OCT. 21 THRU 27, SOUTH BEND TO ORLANDO, $150. CALL TAMI AT HAIRCRAFTERS 284-5383. 
Hey London drummer boy Sid Ill Cute pereonel, but when ere you going to und one to m' ? They always gat peraonela from you I neuer gat them 
ihey always do ... 
CAN WE JUSTSAY ... TODAY IS PATTY FERRICK'S 19TH BIRTHDAY! And ell ehe wenta Ia to go to Detroit, lie In the shade, Vlelt the Prealdent, end gal ... love from the lunch bunch... Jane, Jen, Mel, LIN, Ange, & Mlkelll 
So LAURA STANTON, you thought you'd gel out of town early enough to prevent thle ad from getting ln. Not aoon enough I So now I gat to wleh you a HAPPY BIRTHDAY over braek In print. We're going to have to IHI that newly-acquired talent you picked up from SYR'a. By the way, whet are you going to do about all lhouguya? Juet kidding. Love ye • Pata. 
"'GO DAVE GO'" PULL THOSE DRUMS Ill Sign up for the DAVE McMONAGLE FAN CLUB In room 213 Keenan or call 3271 for memberehlp Info. "' GO DAVE GO"' 
B I N 0 C U L A R S A L E S THURS & FRI NIGHTS -Dining Halle SAT ­Before Alrlorce Game 
Happy 21at Birthday Maureen Fitzgerald 
Love Mom Dad Dennie Tim Caitlin 
Walcome To The Senior Bar Happy 2111 Maureen Fitzgerald 
All, Jen, MC & Chrletlnle: We're going to JAMAICA ne ne na ne neaal Hal ????????? 
FORWARD AND FIACA Ill MENACLE AND DEN GOSACA Ill I HOPE OAT YOU All HAVA WUN­DERFUL BREAK, MAN. I TINK YOU All KNOW WHO YOU ARE, SO LIKE, TESTIFY, IPSO FACTO WID DE CLASH MAN, AND REMEMBER: DA HARDER DEY COME DA HARDER DEY FALL ONE AND ALL Ill -FROM DE CHRIS MAN 
Welcome to Notre Dame, Suzy..QIII CRAZY tlme1 await ue... 
Pleaee Help mal My ride for braek fell throughII nud 1 ride to latrobe, PA., or Pltteburgh. Call Maureen 284-5230 
Good luck FLASHER ... Luv Valli 
SCOTT PATRIAI 
HAPPY BIG 211 From a nelve Fraehman to eeven end 1 half mlnutee. From fat Dldl to ellck Jean. From probation to the Acad.,lc Committee. From Prendlr, Rat, and Meller to Johnny, Jacklon, end SchwlbiH. From Engineering to Pey­chology. "Vou've come • long way, bebyl" Congredulatlonelll Heva 1 greet time thla wukl (you've bought the mellrlala • now let'a hope It 11111 longer than aeven and 1 hill) with pae­alonete love· xoxoxoxo ·the Fighting Tucene. 
NO Crew doee Boeton I Good luck wo­men In the Heed of the Cher1111 Row well for all of u1. 
Come chur thl Notre Dame Women'• Crew team 11 they decimate Boaton. The Heed or the CheriH, 11:20 a.m. the women ehow how feat they are 
NO Crew teem, have a good break. Women, row well In Boeton, everybody 1111, have fun and be reedy to row In Phllly next Saturday. NO Crew doll the Heed of the Schuylkill. Good luck 
Greg end Tom (ellly )ell blrd1) Do you went to go to a wild party? 
Tntlfy, Brotherllfllyrfcl ere a way of getting people to lleten to muelc longer than they normally would. lpeo Facto and the Qan)a Herb. Have a nice breek. 
PETER, JOE, RICK, CHRIS, & PAUL, You're the grHteetll Have a terrific break! Love, Lonl .....................J.......................................... 
ATTN DOMERS HmiNQ DC FOR BREAK MEET MONDAY NITE THE WATERFRONT,10 PM! 
NO WOMEN HARRIER$-run STRONG, run SMART, run PSYCHED, THINK leg apeld. GOOD LUCK at Indiana Inter· collegletn. 
WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME, Did, Rlghty, Anne-Marie, and yae, even you, you Of' Big Dummy. 
LISA I, HOPE YOU HAVE A GREAT OCTOBER BREAK. LOVE, LISA II 
HEY NO DRUMMERS, NICE PHOTOIII DO SHOTS LOVE, LONDON 
LIZ-DOG MARTUCCI 
You know thlt hiving lobatere 11 bet­ter than having crebal H-'• to eleter Liz, hive a good time In peaty Califor­nia with Me, Leo, and ........ (Oh, and don't go playing wHh any Trojane) 
-The Boye 

----~~---~--~---~--~ 
The Obsecver Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 11
~ 


Garrett leads the way as cross country team hits the road 
In these races, junior Dan Gar­due to a hlp Injury, but Is con­
By KELLY TOWNSEND Sports Writer rett will be the leader ofthe pack. stantly working. He is a team run­ner and has a very optimistic out­Over Fall Break the Notre "Dan Is a motivator" says look towards the meets coming Dame cross country team will Coach Joe Plane. "He Is taking up. take to the road. Friday the Irish control of the team and forcing "We've Improved a lot in the travel to Terre Haute for the In­them to run In a group. past two weeks," says Garrett. "In diana Inter-Collegiate Meet "Garrett, (Mike)O'Connor, and practice we've been running to­along with teams from every end (Ron)Markezlch are the strength gether more. Once we put It to­ofindiana. Then, next week. they of the team. Dan Is Improving gether as a team, we will surprise journey to Houston for a trl-meet and will give good races this people." with Houston and Rice Univer­week." Not only has the team been Im­sities. Garrett did not run last season proving, but Garrett's personal 
KICKOFF _.YOUR FOOTBALL PARTY SEASON WITH 
REASOR ICE, INC. 
1709 Werwinskl 
PHONE 234-5309 
SPECIAL~# BAG·
$2.90 .. 
NUGGETS 
•. "·\",;. ..,.~).. · . .;· .•. ·.: : .......; ·.. .;·. ':\ . 
Effective Home game Saturdays only-with this ad only 
•lllllA~·tl'ieal/ ElectronicI Computer Engineers... Computer Scientists...Xathematicians... Language Specialists 
Latitude. That's what keeps a job invigorating 

-the chance to expand your interests, to take 
on unheard of challenges, to grow out as well as 
up. Well, that's precisely what the National 
Security Agency offers you as one of our people. 
NSA performs three all-important tasks. We 

analyze foreign communications. We safeguard 
America's vital communications. We set secur­
ity standards for the government's mammoth 
computer systems. And we want you in ori the 
job. 
NSA offers choices upon choices. In assign­

ments: In projects. In careers. But whatever 
your role, it's going to make a difference; it's 
going to produce immediate results. 
For an Electrical/ Electronic I Computer 

Engineer options abound. In fact, the entire 
technological and functional spectrum are 
yours for exploration. Microprocessor im­
plementation and programming, communica­
tions systems, LSIIVLSI, CAD/CAM, systems 
architecture and optics. Among others. 
To the Computer Scientist, we deliver op­

portunities across the frontier of finite state 
machine development. The applications realm: 
systems design and programs, applications and 
evaluation, and computer security research and 
design. 
Mathematicians research a variety of mathe­

matical concepts including probability theory, 
statistics, Galois theory and group theory. 
Language Specialists in Slavic, Near Eastern 

and Asian languages meet the challenges of 
translation, transcription and analysis head 
on. Every day. 
Whatever ypur field, you can be certain to 

find many paths cleared for you. You'll also find 
a competitive salary, enticing benefits and an 
appealing suburban location between two vital 
urban centers-Washington and Baltimore. 
For additional information, schedule an in­

terview with your College Placement Office. Or 
write to the National Security Agency. 
NSA will be on campus Nov. lOth interviewing graduating seniors. Limited summer positions available for those who have completedjunior 
yezr. 
NATIONAL 
SECURITY 
AGENCY 

NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
ATTN: M322 (AAM) 
Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000 
U.S. citizenship required for applicant and immediate fam!ly members. 
An equal opportunity employer. 
performances have been, as Gar­rett puts It, "up to par". 
Co-captain Rick Mulvey says of Dan, "He has made a remarkable comeback from his Injury and Is Improving every week. In prac­tice, Dan sets the pace for the group and we follow." 
This confident team attitude will be needed today against In­diana University, one of the top teams In the division. A win today for the Irish could bejust the con­fidence booster needed for next week's meet with Houston and Rice. 
"Indiana University has a good team," said Plane, "and It would be great to place three men in the top ten. Of the six conslstant runners, the top three will prob­ably be Dan, Mike and Ron. Colds and 111Juries are taking their toll. Only now is the team getting healthy." 

Plane also believes that the team will have their hands full next week against Rice. Along with Rice, ranked in the top five In the nation, the Irish will be running against a strong Hous­ton squad. 
"The boys like to compete," said Plane. "All they need to do Is learn to run well as a team and this needs to start today." 



Rockne. 
TheLegendLivesOn. 
bl the ht...Jrts ;uuJ nnnt1.' of ;~I Notre ()·,un~ follnwt'I'S, Co3l.:h Knute Rncknt' s lll4.1non l'i'o'i'illl 
~ow. 10 help kL'-=P that ml'mory a.hvl'. a full (l)lor limltl'tl t'C.~tKm hthcwaph pnnt tmm an on!Qilal 01! p-.Uittlll~. ha.~ heefl ISMit.'d 
• Full mlor: !~" x 2H •11 " 
• EWt1oll of l))«l h11tL1; :;n iU11.SI s prnof:ool 
• All pnnL' numl>!n~ '"'d Sl~'ll h1 tht· artJ>I 
• 1j·rtclk:.tlt· of Autht•ntll11Y 1nrhKit'\l 
)OOOOOOOOOOf$24.951.)000000000( available at: 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore OPEN 9 a.m.-5::5U p.m. Friday and Satu · 

The independent student newspaper serving Notn! Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
Questions should be directed to Scott Bearby by Friday, October 17. 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 12 
:··~*******************:

Two big meets ahead for women 
iC f_~\ iC 
By THERESA KELLY this year. Against strong compe­visible throughout the team. 
iC -~ > PATRICKFOLEYIS21! : 
Sports Writer tition, she finished fifth to help "Six of the seven varsity run­the Notre Dame team place ners ran ·the best races of their iC Happy Golden Birthday....... ~
iC ~
r

The Notre Dame women's fourth in its first meet as a varsity careers," said a proud Coach Dan 
cross country team, coming off level team. Merkel was named to Ryan after the Roadrunner Invi­its best performance of the year the All-Invitational Team. tational. : ' ' iC at the 1986 Southern Michigan "There's a definite difference Ryan noted the time gap of 
ie***********************~
Roadrunner Invitational, is pre­between varsity and club level 1:27 between the Irish first and paring for two important meets training and competition," says fifth finishers and the 30 second over fall break. Merkel. "We train three hours a gap between numbers two and 

rr===========~============~ 
The Irish will race in the In­day as opposed to an hour, or five as the best the team has run diana Inter-Collegiate Meet an hour and a half last year." in competition this year. Friday in Terre Haute and the Merkel says her goal is to make 
ND Apparel Headquarters 
North Star Conference meet in Nationals, either this year or The Irish, with 46 points, beat 
LIQUIDATION SALE 
Milwaukee a week from Satur­next. She adds that her progress some tough competition last day. this year is "20 seconds faster week. Second place finisher Fer­
30/oOFF EVERYTING IN STORE 
As has been the case all and three weeks ahead of ris State (54 points) is a top-ten season, team captain Julia schedule" over the goals she set Division II team, and Macomb 
(Except sweats) 
Merkel led the Irish as they at the beginning of the season. College, ranked third among 
Complete outfitter for intramural sports 
defeated 11 teams to win the In­A team leader is important to junior colleges nationally, vitational last Saturday at South­every young team, and Merkel finished third at Southeast Mic­ern Michigan. Merkel finished leads by example, working hard higan with 82 points. 
FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES 
second, only four seconds off the and consistently improving on "(The Irish) should do pretty lead with a time of 18:10. previous times. well at State," says Merkel. "The 
NIKE &. ADIDAS 
A junior from Burke, Virginia, The hard work and competi­conference Is tough to tell, but 
NIKE Open Field (all white) $25.00 
Merkel has been the top runner tiveness rubs off on every team we can probably be In the top for the women's team all season. member. The improvements are three." 
All CONVERSE basketball shoes $15.99 
She began running cross­
(Except The Weapon) 
country during her sophomore year In high school and was· named team MVP and outstand­
Erasmus Books 


SR 23 & Edison Rd. Ing senior at West Springfield 
Mon.-Fri. 10-6
1027 E. Wayne 

(across from King's Cellar) 
High School. 

Sat. 10-5 Merkel says her best race was 
Tues.-Sun., noon-6 
I block south of Jefferson & Eddy 
277·7284

at the Hillside Invitational earlier 
Used & out of print books bought, sold, searched 
232-8444 





r;;o:;~~~~-~;;l 
~ Presents § 
§ Applications of Neuro-Linguistic ~ Programming -A 2 Day Seminar § NlP is a group of tools and techniques that § teaches people how to be more effective § when speaking or dealing with others and § thems·elves. ~ 
October 23-24. 1986 Americana Inn 9:30a.m. -5:00 p~m. 213 West Washington South Bend. Indiana
§  
§$125.00  MasterCard, VISA  Call or write for complete  
~  American Express  details regarding this pro­ 
':!  cards accepted.  gram and other programs 
§  and seminars...  
§  Midwest Institute of NLP  
§  1513 Miami Sr., South Bend, IN 46613  
~ .  (219) 232-9636  •  

&,~<.Q>·-?>~<.Q><.Q><.C/"·<.Q><.C/"~<.Q><.Q><.Q><.Q>'-4'• 

If They Won't Tell You About It, Then You Know It Must Be Great. 
Purple Passion. Out of the bathtub. into the can. and onto the shelves of your favorite store. Discover it for yourself 
From the fighting Irishto the NFL 
Joe Montana, quarterback. Football super­star who went from Notre Dame to two Superbowl championships, two Superbowl MVP awards, and the cover of Time maga­zine. Now he tells his own story: the ups and downs, the conflicts and triumphs of a~ skyrocket career, with riveting play-by-play ... action in some of football's most exciting games ... as seen by the man on the hot spot. AUDIBLES is the first book and the last word on Joe Montana, from the man who knows the story best of all. 
-------~------------------~­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 13 
Zahm beats Hogs in Inter hall FB 
1\ 
219-872-2114 Open 7 D•y• per wHk 
MICHIANA STABLES 
Trail Rides  •  Pony Rides  •  Hay Rides  
• Lessons • Boarding • T,..nlng  U.S. 12 (E••t of Mlchlg•n City) MICHIGAN CITY, IN 48380  


Open 8-8 Mon-Fri 8·4 Saturday 
By KEVIN McCORMACK Sports Writer 
The Interhall football regular season wound down to Its con­clusion the past two days at Car­tier Field, with several teams up­setting and spoiling the playoff hopes of others. 
In the Leahy division, the game of the week was Zahm against Holy Cross because the winner would be in the playoffs. After It was all said and done, the Zahmbles defeated the Hogs In a thriller 10-6. 
The Hogs had the ball first. but were stopped by a hungry Zahm defense. As soon as Zahm got the ball, they drove down the field with a mixed selection of 




Academies 
continuedfrom page 16 
So while they might not be as 
dominant as they once were, the 
Academies are at least competi­
tive. And, they have gotten back 
to that level intelligently. 
Realizing that they can't com­
pete against the behemoths at 
most schools, Air Force and 
Army went to the wishbone. In-play calling. culminating in a .35­yard run After Zahm scored on its first possession, the rest of the first half was a defensive struggle and ended In a 7-0 Zahmbie lead. 
The Hogs came out firing and drove down to Zahm's five to begirt the second half, until a fumble ended the Holy Cross threat. 
Holy Cross pulled to within one, late In the third quarter on a 1 0-yard around the end play for a touchdown, but missed the extra point. 
A 42-yard field goal by Andy Richardson set the stage for Holy Cross' last opportunity to win. 
The Hogs drove down the field 
stead of having its linemen utilize straight-ahead blocking 
schemes,  the  wishbone's  
linemen  merely  help  the  
defender  go  the direction  he  

wants to go. Then the quarter­back adjusts accordingly. It's a system that's worked quite well for the undersized academies, as the Irish can attest. 
But what about Navy? They don't use the wishbone. No, they use the I. Of course, the Midship­men had Napoleon McCallum, one of the premier runners in college football history. He was good enough to set the NCAA record for most all-purpose yards without the trickery of the 'bone. 
Which brings up another point. 

again, but were constantly being pressured by the Zahm defense which got a key sack on the drive. Time then ran out with the Hogs on the Zahm 5-yard line, ending In heartbreak for Holy Cross and jubilation for the Zahmbies. 
In other Leahy action, Pangborn beat Cavanaugh 14-0 and Stanford crushed hapless Alumni, 17-0. 
In the Rockne division, Sarin was surprised by Carroll in a 0-0 tie by the Vermin, while Fisher defeated St. Ed's 12-0. 
In the Parseghian division, Grace tied Off-Campus 0-0 while the Manorltes of Morrissey handed Flanner Its second loss of the season 1.'3-0. 
The Navy relaxed its rules on ob­ligation In McCallum's case, al­lowing him to play for the Los Angeles Raiders, where he's now tilling In for the Injured Marcus Allen. If the other services follow the Navy's lead, look for a few more of the so-called "blue­chippers" to head for West Point, Annapolis or Colorado Springs. That's If they can handle the 4 
a.m to 8:.30 p.m. daily schedule of McCallum. 
But In the meantime, the games for the Commander-In­Chief's trophy are now more than just a chance for military men to bet on and and earn bragging rights. They've actually become pretty good ball games. 
Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7 feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-6444 

A Premium Beer with Natural Lemon Flavor A refreshing alternative! No bitter aftertaste!  
Lemon Lager is now available at these fine establishments .•. Bridget McGulres Prairie Liquors Cut Rate Liquors Lil' Caesar's Kevin's Mitchell's Indiana Club Commons Hank's Supermarket Frank's Place Eagles Super Saver Thornburg Drug Barg-N-Bag Kings' Cellar Miami Plaza Liquor Store Harris Liquor Store Last Stop Liquors Casun's CouncH .Oak Liquors Cira's Supermarket Ranita Grill Osee Drugs Bullseye Liquors McKinnley Terrace Market Portage Liquors Morin's Cafe Pink Elephant Liquor Store Lee's Liquors T & C Liquors Uncle's Irish Pub 12th St. Liquors Backstage! Pizza King 331 Inn Party Package Papa Joe's The Package Store Max's Liquors Rodino-Parkmor Liquors Mr. Al's Liquors Walgreen's Heinnie's Ski's Place Superette Food Market City Wide Liquors Sterling Ave Liquors Corktowne liquors Pak'n Shop Stores Giannetto's The Liquor Station The Pop Stop Office Lounge Hickory Hiram's Pine's Liquors Riverpark Liquors Pizza Tyme OC Liquors Dale's Place Chevron Cafe Eagle Inn Green Star Cafe Ironwood Liquors McKinnley Pub East Race Liquors Chuck's Tavern Stubby's Y-Knot Shack Gene and Mary's Alibi Inn  


ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 272·7U4 
Soft 

Contact~ 



Lenses $19.86 


Daily or Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to  Call for an appoinunent today.  
the contact lenses you have  You'll see better for less. Dr.  
always wanted at a price anyone  Tavel's Premium Optical has  
can afford! For a limited time  been caring for eyes for over 40  
Dr. David Tavel has reduced the  years with 32 locations in  
price of Softmate daily or  Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the  
extended wear contact lenses to  care of your family's eyes to  
an unheard of price of  Indiana's largest, oldest and  
$19.8 6.*  most trusted name in eyecare?  

OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1986 *Exam is tequired •t tl1e time of purchase and is not includcxl in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orde"' and may not be combined with any other discount. 
Providers for all insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servinJ? Indiana's evecare needs for over 40 years. We 

i-·~-:-·~ 
carry on a tradition of excellence that is 

=>J~ 

unsurpassed. And thai's a 

SOUTH BEND • MISlL\ WAKA
promise from the doctor." 

Broadmoor Plaza K-l\1art/Martin Center 
a~ 
Across from Scottsdale ~!all Next door to O.co DruR 
~ 291-4000 . 25~-5000 
~· -----~------­
r The Observer 
Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 14 
Women's football playoffs are set 
By KATHY BERRY 
Sports Writer 

The final four in the Women's Interhall Football playoffs were decided Tuesday night as Breen­Phillips subdued Lyons, 26-6, and Pasquerllla East shut out Pasquerilla West, 14-0. This sets up a rematch of last year's over­time semi-final between eventual-champion Farley and Lyons. B.P. and P.E., both with records of 6-1, are pitted against each other In the other semi-final match. 
Flags were difficult to grab and passes fell short as temperatures dropped in the thirties Tuesday night. The run was quite effective and that's what B.P. used for three of its four touchdowns against Lyons. B. P:'s Margaret Johnson ran five yards for the first touchdown ofthe game. B. P. failed on the two point conver­sion and it was 6-0. 
Lyons was penalized byseveral tackling calls which stopped them in the first half. Right before the half Lyons quarter­back Mary Bohmer was knocked to the ground as she tried to get a pass off. It fell short and into the hands of Karen Marsh who ran it back for a sixty-five yard touchdown. Mary was out for the rest of the game and it was B. P. up by twelve. 
In the second half with Karen Lynch at quarterback for Lyons, tailback Robin McHugh ran forty yards for its first score. B. P. came back and clinched the win with a thirty-yard touchdown run by caroline Burke and a scoring pass play to Amy Tweder. B.P. made one two-point conversion to win by the score of 26-6. 
"I think that was their most well-played game so far," said Danny Deboer, B.P.'s coach. "I think we're peaking now and we're ready for the playoffs." 
In the war of the Pasquerillas, P.E.'s Packers scored on their first possession on a pass from Colleen Donnally to Colleen O'Conner. P. W's Kathy Moran broke up the conversion attempt to make it 6-0. P. W.'s "Plaid Wave" had two chances to score in the first half as It drove down to the fifteen and the twenty, but it couldn't put anything Into the endzone.. 
In the second hair. P. E.'s Annie Shrenk intercepted P.W. 's pass to put them on the forty-yard line. On fourth down and twelve, Col­leen Donnally connected with Mia Faust for a thirty-yard touch­down. With the two-point conver­sion, P.E. crushed P.W.'s hopes for a playoff berth. 
''I'm happy with the way they've played this season," P. E.'s coach Jeff Morgan said about his players. "I think they showed a lot of poise in their games 
against Farley  and  Lewis.  I'm  
looking  forward  to  good  
playoffs."  

Daedalus Productions Presents The National Tour of 





EVITA 
Sunday, November 2, 8 PM O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College Tickets $10; $5 students For Information: 284-4626 

Novice Tournament features close fights 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club ended its fall season Wednesday with the annual Novice Tournament. 
In the first bout, Jaime Bel­lalte came away with a unan­Imous decision against Ruben Malig. 
At 130 pounds, Dave Haimes lost a tough decision to Joe Dieterle. 
Eric Bender inched by John Gordon with a split decision. 
The fight between John Al­
bertini o:Jnrl Tim 0' Lauqhlin at 150 pounds was stopped in the second round because of injury. 
Tim callahan battled· with Steve Dempsey to win a unan­imous decision. 
At 160 pounds, Bill Handy traded leather with Mark Be­ssette and came away with the closest of decisions. 
Tom Stahl slid past a game Jay DeGraaf to gain the vic­tory. 
The final fight of the after­noon saw Jay Sheehan beat Jim Mason in a split decision. 

non-alcoholic beverage with your choice of one of these featured menu entrees: 
•Prime 
Rib 


• 
Boston Scrod 

•Stir· 
Fry Chicken 

•Chicken 
Teriyaki 

•Shrimp 
Creole 




Served with our famous Salad Buffet and your choice of vegetable or potato. 
(}c..pk.u. ll~ ·~ 

FREE CHIPS & DIP in Lounge 
4:30 to 7:00 p.m. Mon. thru Fri. 
n====J:=O::=:O:=E:=.=:C:=o=:=:lfax=a=t=t:;:::he==R:=ive=r== ~f~ 
Reservations Accepted 234-4477 •••{!_v v-j '(i.J)lj 

~~4tJil~~................................................-..r.ri.da•y•-.sa.t.u.rd•a•y•,•O•c•to.be
..r•1•7•-1•8•,•1•9•8•6•,•-•p•a•g•e•1..5 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 



·SUDDENLY, HARVIN REALIZE:D '~.
ruu BET! 
OH NO! 
THAT EVERY SINGLE PAIR OF HIS UNDERIJfM WAS IN THE LAUNDRY.
I 



"Hey! C'mon, Jed! ... Ease up on them hammers!" 

Campus 
FRIDAY 
4:00 p.m.: Mass for Notre Dame war dead at the Clarke Memorial Fountain, celebrant: Father Theodore Hesburgh, homllist: Msgr. Francis Sampson, ND 
SATURDAY 8:00a.m. -.3:00p.m.: Graduate Management Admission Tests, Engineering Auditorium 
9:.30 a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meeting, Multi-purpose Room, Center for So­cial Concerns, sponsors: ND Alumni Associ­ation and Center for Social Concerns 
II:.38 a.m.: Football, ND vs. Air Force 
112 hour post game: Mass, Keenan Chapel 
7:00 p.m.: Chinese Student Association Film, 'The Sword Ship," Library Auditorium 
~ 
Dinner Menus 

Notre Dame 
Roast Breast of Turkey Knockwurst & Sauerkraut Banana Fritter with Hot Maple syrup Grilled Bologna Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Pork Chop with Country Cream Gravy Italian Sausage Fr.ench Bread Pizza Deli Bar 

Have a nice break! 
This is the last issue of The Observer before fall break. The paper will resume publication on the Tuesday following the vacation, October 28. 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 Biblical land  
6 Cicatrix  
10 Bullfighter's  
cloak  
14 "It's-than  
you think"  
15 Ontario's  
neighbor  
16 Scandinavian  
god  
11 Ape  
18 Sell  
19 Ruler: suff.  
20 Insignificant  
pier?  
22 Ve{1as game  
23 Soviet river  
24 Linguistic  
form  
26 One who  
sponges  
30 Lowest point  
32 Jai­ 
33 Oxidized iron  
35 Clamor  
39 Times after  
weekends 41 Certain  "'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved  10/17/86  
muscle  
43 Ovules  3 Coup d'­ 
44 Serf  4 Flexed  
46 Pottery oven  5 Fancy sock  
47 Dough leaven  6 -deadly  
49 Paris palace  sins  
51 Moorish drum  7 Natives of  
54 Certain ele- Canes  
ment prefix  8 Purist's  
56 Indonesian  no-no  
isle  9 Colored again  
57 Drunken nomad? 1 0 Swaggering  
63 Surrounded by  Balboa?  
64 Ancient  11 Pertinent  
Gr. city  12 Spinet  
65 TV's Child  13 Composer  
66 WWI aircraft  Dvorak  
67 Circle  21 Comic Lewis  
68 Tocsin 69 Kind of chair  25 Fork part 26 Machine disks  10/11/86  
70 Infamous  27 Medicinal herb  40 Confused  52 Fla. city  
marquis  28 Borge for one  42 Thin and  53 Assumed name  
71 Boundaries  29 Dizzy hen?  piping  55 Amerind  
DOWN 1 Swill  31 Solar disk 34 Employs 36 Medical suffix  45 Salary 48 Changes 50 River blockage  58 Hip bones 59 Christmas 60 Land plan  
2 Loser to  37 Foot part  of sorts  61 Father  
tortoise  38 Sea bird  51 Humiliate  62 Sweet potatoes  


TIME FoR BIG UN! is Coming! October 31st 


11'\Jured Mark Green. Details on Saturday's game appear In the Irish Extra. 



ND soccer has a tough task ahead 
By PETE GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame soccer team leaves today on what Is perhaps Its most critical series of games In Its history. 
Sunday, the Irish will face Con­necticut at Storrs, Conn. Though the Huskies have just recently fal­len out of the Top-20, they are always tough In their home stadium. 
Next Friday the team will face Penn State at Unlverslty1'ark. Pa. A noted "tournament team," the Nittany Lions also have just fallen from the Top-20, largely because of their 1-0 loss to Akron. 
These two games will be an excellent test for the 9-5-1 Irish, who have not played a game since last week's tie against Ak­ron. Head Coach Dennis Grace believes the rest has made his team hungry to play. 
"The people came back (from a three-day break) ready to play," says Grace. "I liken It to pre­season -they are In that kind of shape." 
Even more Importantly, the fu­ture of the program could be af­fected by the team's play next week. five recruits plan to attend these games, and a strong showing by Notre Dame would give Grace more leverage in recruiting. 
Notre Dame needs continued offensive production from Bruce McCourt (13 goals, 6 assists), Randy Morris (5 goals, 8 assists), and Joe Sternberg (8 goals, 3 assists). The defense may experi­ment with a double-stopper alignment, recently installed to allow both John Guignon and Pat 
McClanahan a chance to play in the middle. 
Even with victories, the Irish chances of post-season play are just about nil because of four losses In their own region. 
"I wish It could have been this year," says Morris. ''But nowwere playing for next year and the year after that." 
IRISH ITEMS -Co-captain Steve Lowney is expected to play after suffering a strained knee In the Akron contest ... Also returning from Injuries are co-captain Jim flynn and keeper Kevin 
Mayo ... Wingback  Tom  
Pernstelner  is  out  with  back  
spasms ... The  Irish  have  won  

every game that McCourt has scored in ... Grace's wife Carolyn Grace is celebrating her birthday today. 


Irish continue difficult road trip 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 

October break will not feature much of a respite for the Notre Dame volleyball team as It takes on some tough opposition on the road. 
The team Is off to its best start in history, 14-5, and already has started the road trip with two wins in three tries. 
Head Coach Art Lambert says he is hoping this trip will be a step toward Improving Notre Dame's reputation. 
"The Ohio State game is pivo­tal for us to gain credibility," he says. "They are ranked in the top 10 in our region." 
After Ohio State, the Irish will take on Georgetown, Duke, North Carolina State and Vir­ginia. 

The Irish coach says he would have been happy to know he would be 14-5 at this stage If asked at the beginning of the year, but he thinks the record could have been even better. 
"I had hoped to be where we are," he says. "But we could be even better. We've made some critical mistakes at crucial times, or we'd be better. 
"This team Is starting to realize just how good they can be. 
"I feel good about the team because of the effort," he con­tinues. "It's a far different, far better team than last year." 
Lambert emphasizes that the second half of the schedule is tougher than the first, but he remains optimistic. 
"This Js a very difficult road swing, but we are capable of beating every team. This Is the kind of trip where a team develops, with back-to-back games against hard-nosed op­ponents." 

Friday-Saturday, October 17-18, 1986, -page 16 

The path of football at the Academies 
The Air force Is coming, the Air force Is coming. for the Irish, that really does mean war. By now, no one 
needs to be reminded of four year's worth of the Irish follies 
against Air force, four years of being beaten by by a flock 
of falcons that refuses to fly. 
But Air force's success of late is part of a larger picture, 
the rebirth of Academy football. 
In days gone by, the service academies, especially Army 
and Navy, were football powers. In 1913, for example, Notre 
Dame was a small unknown which went east to play mighty 
Army. Instead, the Irish, led by the passing combination of 
Gus Dorlas to Knute Rockne, whipped the Cadets, 35-13. And 
no one forgets the now famous 0-0 tie In 1946. 
Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 


Army continued to be a power until into the 1950's, winning back-to-back national titles In 1944 and 1945. In 1945, Mr. Inside, felix "Doc" Blanchard won the Helsmann Trophy, and Mr. Outside, Glenn Davis won It the following year. 
But after 1958, the year Pete Dawkins won the Helsmann, Army retreated from the national scene. 
The Naval Academy story Is much the same. While never as strong as Army, the Midshipmen did finish second to the Cadets In 1945 and in, the year a soon-to-be ensign named Roger Staubach walked away with the Helsmann, Navy lost to Texas, 28-6, In the Cotton Bowl, thereby finishing second In the race for the national championship. But then Navy sunk from the polls and national prominence. 
The Air force Academy has a slightly different story. The falcons didn't take wing until the 1956 season but just two years later, they were 9-0-2 and In the Cotton Bowl earning a 0-0 tie with TCU and a number-six ranking. The falcons appeared In the Gator Bowl In 1963 and the Sugar Bowl In 1970. But then Air force dove from prominence. 
The Academies lay dormant for most of the Seventies. Vietnam and the the anti-military sentiment which followed contributed to this as well as the recruiting difficulties that are unique to the Academies. It's hard to sell the average high school all-American to come to one of the academies, play ball and then spend four years in the service when a lot of high school athletes are thinking college then pros. 
But starting In 1978, something happened. The service academies became competitive again. That year, George Welsh and his Midshipmen finished 8-3 and beat BYU In the Holiday Bo"-'1. Navy went to two more bowls in 1980 and 1981, losing both. The Middies had a top-quality running back in Eddie Meyers and now haye Chuck Smith, one of the leading rushers in the nation this season. But since that 1981 season, the Naval Academy hasn't been too successful but In 1982, the Air force landed. 
That year, the falcons made their first of four appearances in post-season play, beating Vanderbilt in the Hall of fame Bowl, 36-28. The falcons next made consecutive successful appearances in the Independence Bowl before beating Texas in last year's Bluebonnet Bowl. Those four wins made them only the second team to win four consecutive bowl games (UCLA is the other). 
Playing Air force with its "flexbone" is no longer the breat­her on anyone's season. 
Army, too, has a post-season winning streak of its own. After years oflosing, the Cadets made It to the nowdecertified Cherry Bowl, where they edged Michigan State, 10-6. It was the first bowl game In Army's long history. Last season, Army finished second In the nation In rushing with its own version of the wishbone and-again going top a bowl. This time, the Cadets downed Illinois, 31.·29, In the Peach Bowl. 
see ACADEMIES, page 13 


Enclosed Is $25 per semester Addreu ----------------------------------­S40peryear City _________ state ___ztp ____ 
The Observer 
P.O.BoxQ Notre Dame. IN 46556 






