
Arsenic and Old Lace -page 7 


African nations too dependent on foreign aid, relief worker says 
Senior to help poor by biking 3,300 miles Terrorists strike back: 3 kidnapped Britons murdered in Lebanon 
Associated Press Britons -were dumped on a higll­
way, each shot once in the head. 

Terror struck back against the A note found nearby claimed they United States and its friends on three were U.S. and British spies and had continents yesterday in an explo­been "executed" by "Arab com­sion of vengeful fury ignited by the mando cells" in reprisal for the at­American bombing of libya. tack oh ubya. Collett was kidnapped 
Terrorists "executed" three kid­13 months ago and Douglas and Pad­nap victims in Lebanon, tried to field last month. blow up an El AI jetliner in London Arab anger has been directed at and tossed firebombs at U.S. targets the British government becaust· it 
in Tunisia. allowed the United States to mount 
In city after city around the world, the air attack on ubya from a U.S. air angry crowds swirled around U.S. base in Britain. embassies and screamed their Soon after the bodies were found, hatred for "U.S.A. aggressor." a British television camt·raman was 
Bomb-disposal squads scurried abducted by gunmen in Beinll. around European capitals in Eighteen kidnapped foreigners, in­response to threats. American em­cluding six Americans, are still mis­bassy staff members were being air­sing in Lebanon. lifted out of Sudan. In libya itself, In London yestt·rday. an alert nervous Westerners looked security guard foiled what could desperately for ways out of the have been a terrorist massacre. country. The El AI airline guard, at 
And in Moscow, in a possibly Heathrow Airport, found a bomb in ominous development, the .Soviet the false bottom of an Irishwoman's Union summoned foreign ambas­hand luggage as she tried to board sadors and formally asserted its right the Israeli airline's Flight 0 16 to Tel to free passage through the seas and Aviv. About 360 people were aboard air around Soviet-aligned ubya, a the targeted Boeing 747. move that might signal Kremlin in­The woman was arrested, but her tentions to move naval vessels or ot­name was not immediately released. her military equipment into the British police said she may have tense Mediterranean. been duped by her boyfriend, an 
The Reagan administration said it Arab, and may not have known was braced for ti.1rther shocks. about the explosives. A search was 
"We are prepared for an increase mounted for the man. in terrorism," White House spokes­In Tunis, two young Tunisians on man Larry Speakes said in Was­a motorbike tossed firebombs at a hington. compound housing U.S. marine 
But he said the U.S. leadership guards and other U.S. embassy staff believes its bombing of libyan cities members, setting an American­Tuesday will "in the long run ... owned automobile afire, U.S. and reduce the risk to Americans" from Tunisian officials reported. No one terror attacks. was hurt. Police said one youth was 
· In Lebanon, retaliation for the U.S. arrested and the other escaped. 
raid was swift and bloody. To the south, in the Sudanese 
The bodies of three kidnap vic­capital of Khartoum, the U.S. em­tims -identified as writer Alec Col­bassy was preparing for an airlift lett, 64, and teachers Leigh Douglas, 
see TERROR, page 4 

34, and Philip Padfield, 40, all 
Odds against contra aid in House, O'Neill says 
~ted Press 
WASIIINGTON -House Speaker Thoma'i P. O'Neill Jr. said yesterday he thinks the Republicans face long odds in their gamble to win an up-or­

down  vote  soon  on  President  
Reagan's  program  of  aid  to  
Nicaraguan r~·bels.  

O'Neill told reporters that "in my judgment, the president had his best chance" on Wednesday, when con­sidaation of the issue was halted abruptly by a GOP tactic aimed at divorcing the vote from an unr­elatt·d sp<.·nding bill that President Reagan want.'i to veto. 
Told of O'Neill's prediction that the GOP would have problems in getting the Contra aid issue con­sidt·red as a st·parate mt·asure. !louse Republican leader Robert Michel. R·lll., said, "I don't think we'll have difficulty. We're going to <:orne down hard on our own people." 
Michd said his goal is "a free· standing bill" limited solely to the question ofgiving military and other as.,istam:e to the Contra counter­n·volutionaries. 
Both leadt·rs agreed that the political fight has delayed for at least a month any new vote on Reagan's plan to st·nd S I 00 million to U.S.­backt·d guerrillas fighting Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista govern­mt·nt. 
To win their gamble, the Republkans will need the support of some Democrats, who hold a 2'52­1HZ t·dge in the House, with one seat vacant. 

On Wednt'Sday, the Republican minority pulled its surprise tactic by voting for an amendment that would have ended Rt•agan's program of as­sistann· to the Contras -an amend­mt·nt that had been widely expected 
see AID, page 4 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Copy Editor 
Although people arc no longer starving in many parts of Africa, there are still numerous problems that face the millions of Africans living In refugee camps, according to African relief worker Diana DeTreville. 
"People are not starving any longer," said DeTreville, who has spent parts of the last eight years as a relief worker in Sudan, most recently, as an evaluater for the 
C.A.R.E. relief organization. 
A problem has arisen, however, 
br<.·ause the African nations have 
become too dependent on foreign 
aid, she said. 

"They have be<.'ome passive recipients of your aid," she said. "Agriculture is still incrediblely neglected. The average African country only puts five percent of their monies into agricultural research and conductive activities." 

I 

Baseball's back 
As the skies cleared up and the sun came out yesterday, stu­dents beaded outside to hone their athletic skills. Above, sop­homore Ket'in Sidders winds up and pitches to sophomore Pete Kielhofner, who swings for the bleachers. 
Relief agencies that provide mil­lions of dollars in aid to Africa pose another problem, DeTreville said. 
"Donor aid is short term, three to five years," she said. "You cannot change things in three to five years,". It takes approximately ten years for permanent change to come she said. 
DeTreville also said that relief agencies are uncoordinated among themselves, "with political goals in mind." 
"Donors focus on the latest trendy products," she said. She cited an ex­ample in Sudan where powdered milk was given to refugees who didn't know how to use it. 
"Many relief workers are un­trained. That's serious," she said. "We need to make donor agencies more accountable." 
Additionally, some African governments have mishandled these situations, DeTreville said. 
"Governments have spent enor­mous amounts on wasteful prestige projects," she said. "Heavy handed government policies have always been very unhelpful. Government cooperatives well meaningly set up to help the small holder, but in fact totally dislocate indiginous market­ing and production infrastructures." 
Because of this, and a colonial period that encouraged plantation­style agriculture, she said the land has become depleted. She showed slides offlat barren land that she said had once been forest. The forest, she said, was vitally important in provid­ing firewood and wood for building nuts. 
She also said that small farmers, who account for 80 percent of Afica's food production, are being neglected. 
DeTreville also cited a population problem as plaguing Africa. "That (population growth) in itselfcreates problems," she said. 
DeTreville said the future doesn't look promising for many African na­tions. "Ifanything we will see downturns." 
ByJIM MOHAN 
News Staff 

Notre Dame senior Tim McLel­lan will spend this summer pedalling across America in an ef. fort to end world hunger and poverty. 
McLellan will be participating in Bike Aid '86, a 3,300 mile bicycle ride to raise ti.mds for self­help projects in underdeveloped areas ofthe world. 
On June 16, McLellan will depart from San Francisco on his way to an early August finish at the United Nations in New York, raising over $3,000 along the way. 
"I decided to participate be­
.cause I have an interest in the issue ofworld hunger, and I have time this summer before I begin work in the Peace Corps," said McLellan, who recently has begun training for his first long­distance bike ride. He has been raising pledges from sponsors in his dorm and will soon begin to actively seek sponsors from all 
ovcrampua. 

Tim McLellan 
"The proceeds go to funding self-help projects in the U.S.A. and around the world, projects started by the (needy) people themselves," said McLellan. 
see BIKE, page 5 



In Brief 
William Shannon,assistant professor of business ad­ministration and economics at Saint Mary's, has been elected as a member of the state of Indiana delegation to the White House Con­ference on Small Business, to take place this August in Washington, 
D.C. Additionally, Shannon has been named as the director ofpublic relations for the Indiana delegation at the conference. The purpose of the White House Conference is to increase public awareness of the contributions ofsmall business, to examine the status ofwomen and minorities as small business owners and to identify problems of small business. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
A recital ofcontemporary pianomusic will be given by Jeffrey jacob, associate professor of music at S~nt Mary's, Sunday night at 8 in the little Theatre ofMoreau Hall at Samt Mary's. The recital will include recent compositions by composers from West Germany, Czechoslovakia, Great Britain and the United States. Admission is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Chicano film writer, director, and producer Jesus Trevino will visit Saint Mary's Sunday and Monday. An advocate for greater Latino participation in all aspects of the film industry, Trevino will present three films depicting the Hispanic experience. "Yo Soy Chicano" will be shown Sunday night at 7 in Carroll Hall at Saint Mary's, "Seguin" will be shown Monday at 4 p.m. in Notre Dame's Galvin Hall, and "Yo Soy" also will be shown Monday night at 7 in Carroll Hall. -The Observer 
Senior Class Mass will be Sunday night at 9 in the Dillon Hall Chapel. Father Beauchamp will be the celebrant. All seniors are welcome to the mass sponsored by the Senior Class. -The 
Observer 
The annual "PenaFolklorica"will be tonight from 8 to 12:30 a.m. at Wilson Commons in the Graduate Club. Everyone is welcome to this free event sponsored by the Student Organization for Latin America. -The Observer 
An openair concertwill take place today from noon until 4 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall as part of Italian Culture week. Club Italia is sponsoring the event. -The Observer 
An Tostal Stafft-shirts and mugs can be picked up in the An Tostal office, 2nd floor ofLaFortune, Sunday from 3 to 7, Monday, 3 to 5, and Tuesday 3 to 5. -1be Observer 
Impersonationists can sign up for the An Tostal im­personations competition today and Monday in the An Tostal office. 
-The Observer 

Weather 
What did you expect, two 
straight days of clear skies? Get serious -this is South Bend. Instead, there will be increasing clouds today with highs in the mid 60s. A 40 percent chance of thundershowers late tonight with lows near SO. A continued 40 percent chance of thundershowers tomorrow with highs in the mid 60s. -AP 
Thr Obsrrvrr ( l'SPS ~99 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday exn·pt during exam and vacation periods. Thr Obsrrvrr is published hy the students ofthe l'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions rna) be purchased for SW per year ( SlU per semester) by writing Thr Obsrrvrr, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
<6~~6. 
Thr Obsrrvrr is a member of Thr Assoclatrd Prrss. All reproduction rights are 
r~srrvtd. 

Serving the Best Szechuan and Hunan Cuisine 
Hospitality and Reasonable Prices *Pork with Garlic Sauce *Chicken with Hot Pepper Sauce 


BUDWEISERe•KING OF BEERSCI•ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC.•ST. LOUIS 
r..............1 
SPRING'S A-POPPIN' 
: CAREY, • 

ironwood liquors 
i 
. : 1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD
: Good Luck on the + 
SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 ,2191272-7144



: MCATs! 

Love, Mom, Dad, Duanj Kevin, Tim, Matt 
t 




Saint Augsburger Day Specials 

Kegs: Augsburger quarter barrel ••••• $21.99 Strqhs/Bud half barrels •••••••• $31.88 Busch/Old Mill half barrels ••••• 
$8.99 Augsburger case $8.99 Strqh's 30 pack 
7.99 Helneken 12 pack $5.49 ••••••••••••• Gqebels case 
Now accepting reservations for Graduation Weekend. CORKTOWNE 
Mon.-Thurs.: 11:30am-10pm For carry out
Bar open 7 days a week 

LIOUORS,INC. 277-6805
Fri.·Sat.: 11:30am-11pm or
130 Dixie Hlg~.way South 

Sun. &: Holidays reservations 184~0UTH BEND AVE.
South Bend.lndlana 

State Road 23. !1.1 mile west of Martm's Supermarket
11:30am-10pm Happy Hour: 5pm-7pm On U-8.11 Notllle .._..., liiMIIIII 1M 
272-7376 

------~~---------------~ ~-----------------­
The Observer 
Friday, April 18, 1986-page 3 
ANNOUNCING THE 

Monday Night Special* 
llftl%1ftlaiper...  1•. 4-t:M ,.-led._.SIMI IIIIJ  
'10.00  $12.50~'22.50  
Complete haircut  Hlghlifthting or coloring  
and dealgn  ce  ophanea etc.  
$320 0 Permo & body waves cuatom 


1, 
formulated for your halrtype complete wlh.,cutand dealgn. 
All condlllonlng Included. 
All SERVICES PERFORMED 
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF 
THE MICHAEL & CO. 
EDUCATIONAL TEAM 


620 W W.-h•nglon. Soulh B•nd 234 9077 RPWrval10n., ava1111blt' 

-

Notre Dame A venae Apartments 
NOWRENTING FOR FAU 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for Summer Session) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 1J4.;6647 /256-5716 CaiiAnydme 

620 W Wr1'i.h1ngton. South BE>nd. 234-9077 Rewrvi!IIOn" dvtldahiE> 
So you thought Spring Break was over! Well not at Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad in for a special price 'Break'. 
$1.00 OFF ourfabulous Sunday Brunch ..t?Y(!d Good on the following Sundays: .i'} ~' 

Apri/13, 20, 27, & May 4. ~~~~ 
620 lN. Washington St. -·Reservations Required--234-9077 
Graduate To A New Car! 
.I 
f ~ 

Special Car Sale with Special.Low Car Prices and Special Low FinancinJ;! for 1986 Notre Dame/St. Mary's gracfuates only. 
• 
Over 300 new cars from 15local auto dealers 

• 
All specially priced using the fleet buying power of 1st Source Bank On the spot financing from 1st Source Bank loan specialists 

• 
No co-signer required 

• 
No payments until August 1986 



Check it out for yourselfl Friday, April 18 --9:00 a.m.~5:00 p.m. ACC 
~source
..:aank 
Member FDIC 



Correction 
Because of an editing error, a caption on the front page of yes· terday's Observer was incorrect. The photo was of a pipe in Fisher Hall's gameroom. 


The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient pt'pular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 

The Wav of the Cross 
Accordin! to the Gospel of Mark 

Adaptation and Lyrics by Georgia Weber Bain and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8: 10 PM April17, 18, 19and24,25,26 
General Admission $4 
Group rates available 
Call (219) 239-5957 


---~---. 
The Observer Friday, April 18, 1986-page 4 



South African police focus Cyanide-laced drink kills teenager on children, u.S. group says on TV as unknowing friends watch 
Associated Press 

Associated Press or illegal actions against the civilian population." AMHERST, Mass. -A 17-year-old JOHANNESBURG -A U.S. The report, entitled "The war boy drank cyanide-laced Kool-Aid human rights group charged yes-Against Children, South Africa's on live, dosed-circuit televison and terday that South Africa's Youngest Victims," said one 11-died on the floor of the Hampshire security forces have detained, year-old was held for 57 days in a College studio while his brother and tortured and killed thousands of cell with adult criminals and a 14-friends laughed and urged him to black children, singling them out year-old boy was tortured with quit joking, students said yesterday. as "special targets" in a campaign electric shocks. When Andrew Hermann refused to curb protests against apar-It detailed dozens of other al-to quit his "act" on the comedy theid. leged incidents of police and show, students carried him to a hall. "A generation of children is army brutality against children Security guards later found he was growing up in South Africa and charged they were part of a dead. knowing nothing but the "ruthless campaign to crush all "Everyone thought it was a joke. violence of the white-minority opposition." No one realized he had actually regime," said a report issued by "Far from being spared the done it," said Philip Jackson, student the Lawyers Committee for brunt of repression, these producer of the student broadcast. Human Rights, based in New children have often been singled "We've had some rather extreme York. out as special targets of state-things on the show. One time a Police headquarters in sanctioned violence," it charged. group ofArabs came on and hijacked Pretoria issued a statement The lawyers' report ack-it. Everyone just thought he was rejecting the charges and saying, nowledged that some black fooling." "The security forces do not children have taken part in Hermann's older brother, Step-tolerate or condone any abuses stonings and rioting. hen, a Hampshire student who
L----------------__;:;_____.:::______J served as co-host of the program, 

Terror 
continuedfrompage 1 
evacuation of more than 200 em­bassy staff members and depen­dents. 
Gunmen in Khartoum shot and seriously wounded an American em­bassy technician Tuesday near the Libyan embassy. An embassy state­ment said the anti-American threats issued by neighboring Libya, which has grown politically closer to Sudan in recent months, forced the evacua­tion. 
Fifteen thousand protesters demonstrated Wednesday in Khar­toum, burning American flags and chanting, "Down, Down U.S.A.!" 
Since Tuesday's U.S. attack on Libya, the tight security at embassies and other U.S. installations worldwide has been toughened still further. Embassies are receiving about a dozen credible bomb threats a day, State Department officials said. 
Aid 
continued from page 1 
to fail. As a consequence, the amend­ment passed overwhelmingly -and that stopped any further immediate consideration ofother amendments, including one which would have at­tached several strings to any such continuing assistance program. 
Democratic leaders admitted they were surprised, but said the GOP tactic reflected deepening divisions in Congress over the contentious issue. Both sides traded charges after the move, with Democrats saying the GOP used "offensive" and "cynical" tactics and Republicans calling Democrats "corrupt" and "fraudulent." 
The House last month had voted down Reagan's plan, but the Senate approved a different version and O'Neill agreed to reconsider it only if the package were attached to an unrelated spending bill that Reagan has threatened to veto. 
Rather than vote for Contra aid at­
tached to the spending bill, 
Republicans joined with Democrats 
to approve the amendment which 
had the effect of temporarily killing 
Reagan's plan. 

~~ • SUSIE • CYLE • STACY • R l>'-4 
~ STAURT ~ ~ THE ~ 
~ PARTY ~ 6 TIME ~ 
< FORFUN 
;
•
~ KEVINIS (') ~ '21" ~ 
-«(3 •31SllS •.XVf•NV.XH •X:lVLS •hJ 
"SENSATION 


DON'T MISS IT." 
• -Rex Reed, NEW YORK POST 
"I loved it. The dancing is br1lliant. WOW!" -JoelSiegel, ABC-Tv. GOOD MORNING AMERICA 


warn: 
NmH'I'S 
.,.,.__ 
IPG·llli'f':..~'l:'~'i""''"'"'"' 
G> I~ F. I. P 14 I ·---::=r=.:
1 
APRIL 18&19 FRIDAY & SATURDAY CARROLL HALL SMC 8PM& 10:30 PM 
Sponsored by the SMC Student Government 



said, "I thought, like everyone else, students involved in the production, that it was just an act." which was broadcast live to dar-Hermann described his younger mitories at the 1,200-student liberal 
brother as a very intelligent youth who was bored with high school and had "other problems." He said Andrew had planned to attend Hampshire College next year and had been accepted. 
Lt. David Jankowski said police were notified of the death by Hampshire County Medical Ex­aminer Donald Abel after the teen­ager was pronounced dead on arrival at Cooley Dickinson Hospital in Northampton shortly after 11 
p.m. Wednesday. 
T.ests were conducted Thursday by a pathologist to determine the cause of death, Janksowski said, but "cyanide-laced Kool-Aid is suspected, and we feel at this time the youth mixed and drank the li­quid knowing it was lethal." 
Police refused to comment on the suicide reports byJackson and other arts college. 
"All I know is that he died shortly after a TV show in which he took part," said college spokesman Rus­sell Powell. He said college officials were declining comment on the incident on the advice ofcounsel. 
He said college administration had not made a decision on cancel­ing the student show, "Voice of the Top Two." Students said ad­ministrators had tried to take it off the air last year after receiving com­plaints that it was racist and sexist. 
"I saw him drinking this stuff," said student M. Timothy Halle, 23, of Newton, who watched the program in his dormitory room. "I was won­dering what he was drinking. I had no idea, but I didn't think anything of it. It's the most bizarre show." 


Featuring: Fresh seafood, veal and lamb, prepared in a distinctive manner. 
Reservations Recommended

233-8711 
112 W. COLFAX -SOUTH BEND 
Dinner MON-SAT OPEN Spm 
.-;;:;;~~(~;;:-~ 
119 Diwiewav N (U.S. 31 N) (2 blocks south of Naugles) 
VCR Rentals 1 0$ Overnight includes 2 movies call for reservations 277-1744 FREE life -time membership to ND/SMC students and faculty 
-~l~.!~~~~~g~!-~9-~~:-~:~~~~-J 
.----------------------------­
52929 u.a.3i Jbth 
.,..._, ..-.....--.._,. -­
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizzafor Small Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only 
(Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Expires April 26th 
~----------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Friday, April 18, 1986-page 5 

All vou have to do is march yoursei(down to your campus microcomputer center before May 15th and spend five fi.m-packed minutes letting us demonstrate how aMacintosh™ computer can make life much more pleasant for you. 
In return, we'll enter vour name into a drawing where one ' very lucky person on campus will win the grand prize of five hundred dollars. 
Thats $500. Cash. American. To 



.\tl/lllrd~L'I' ll<nl.~WJ lil lit I'filii<' el(~ihlefrir ;wi:<N.<'IId• /~irlli'l/11111/llm,lji/1 1111/lh• <'lllryjimn ;mn·1ik•d111/lllr/ii'ijlrllinJ!,IIIicmmm;mlercen/ers. IJinner.l' IU'l'tl not /i,• ;m~l'lll/11 11711. IkuL,· th1WIIII111/ II~· 111111ilwr of <'11/rii~· 111 <'ll<b lom/11111. 1111/ll'i:<\' u'i/[/i,• 111/tmk•d J.i,l 1!/tm:e 11'11/ll<'rS olil11imtl by semlill!i sel/tiiulnronl <'11/Y'Itf~' to l,{m· .II Ht1'11o/,L,·,: :l'''"'irl/t~·. l11c. ll•'i.i'i II' illllt11111111111 Hoad. llnnw.JMd. 111 ~j()05. © /1)86.-l{ip/e 01111/JIIIt'l: IIIC.-1{1/!I<' and th• .-1{1/lh' lriJ!,o an• IY)IL<It'rltl/rtuA111arks llj.-I{Jfde l.imlfi/1/t?: Inc .1/rimllll<h L' 11 /rtlth'iilllr4• of .1/dn/r44• l.aiJIIralmT. ilu: t111d ,,. lwill!i /Liltluilb ll< <\111/Y'i(l'jlt!l'llli,,wn .1/rn·e dl!lmL,· mudahlt• illiYJIIr Will/'"' 111/t'IYK'IIIII/IIIIvr <'<'Ill<?' 
spend on your education, or some­thing really worthwhile. 
And, for those of you with the average amount of luck, there are free Applel•l painters caps for every­one who comes in and learns how a Macintosh can help you work better, faster, 
![j
and smarter. Its one demonstra­
tion that could 
I "" 

change your life. t;;;;_-...;.,;;--;;;,;;;··-~-____;;,;;;~::::;a 

Libya attack reduces travel to Europe, agents claim 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK · American travel agents are reporting increasing can­cellations to Europe following the bombing raid on Libya, and a European official said yesterday that tourism had been expected to drop by as much as 30 percent even before the raid occurred. 
"It's an absolute shame, a tragedy, that one man that President Reagan has called 'the Mad Dog of the Middle East' is restricting the freedom of Americans to travel," said Donald McSullivan, chairman of the North American Committee of the European Travel Commission. 
McSullivan, whose group represents 23 European national tourist offices, said travel to Europe in 1985 ~ up about 16 percent over 1984, but that rough estimates indicated a decline of 20 percent to 30 percent could occur this year. 
The group's estimates were made before the bombing raid. McSullivan said it was too soon to predict what additional effect the raid might have on European tourism, already hur­ting because of recent terrorist acts in that part of the world. Northern European countries were not ex­pected to suffer as much as countries closer to the Mediter­ranean, he said. 
Even with the cancellations, large numbers of Americans are stiU ex­pected to go to Europe, some travel officials said. 
"The perception on the part of people is that terrorism is rampant. But 6% million Americans go to Europe every year and 10 get killed. The chances of getting murdered in the U.S. are much greater," said Con­rad Blomberg, president of the Rocky Mountain chapter of the American Society ofTravel Agents. 
Several cruise lines have abandoned or reduced their Mediterranean schedules and are concentrating instead on the Carib· bean and the Pacific Northwest. Americans are expected to flock to Florida for Disney World and to Van­couver, British Columbia, for Expo '86, and cruise operators say their bookings in those areas are high. 
Costa Cruises, which presently has three ships in the Mediter­ranean, said its Meditcrrane-o~n cruises generally include about 50 percent Americans, but only about 30 percent of the passengers are ex· pected to be Americans this sum­mer. 
Fear of international terrorism has rumbled all the way to Kalispell, Mont., where school trustees were considering canceling local high school trips to Germany and Mexico this summer. 
Bike 
continued/rom page I 
Bike Aid '86 is sponsored by 
the Overseas Development Net· 
work. "The ODN is a national net· 
work concerned with 
establishing a partnership bet­
ween American college affiliates 
and self-help projects in develop­
ing countries," according to Sop­
hia Twarog, director of the Notre 
Dame ODN chapter. 
McLellan said he was looking 
forward to his ride and en­
couraged other cyclists to sign 
up for the event before May 1 5, 
the application deadline for 
ODN's Bike Aid '86. 
OJ)WI9-6, Mon..SCI. 


---·-­
Accent 

Friday, April 18, 1986 -page 6 
College students shouldn't cry? 

Letters to o Lonely God 
A ll ofus know how fortunate -'"'college students are to be young, free, and getting an educa­tion in America. The typical ND student, it seems, has everything going for him or her: brains, good looks, a winning personality, close friends, the support ofa loving family, a chance for future success and a religious faith to grow on. 
Watching students at play on the quads: improving their tans, spin­ning frisbees, having a good time, you tend to forget that growing up can be hard work. Perhaps this is because, even with the most golden lads and girls, a lot ofrole-playing goes on. Willa Cather wrote: "If youth did not matter so much to itself, it would never have the heart to go on." Yet, as the Bible says, while old men are dreaming ofwhat has been, young men are seeing visions ofwhat will be. 

Now ofmy threescoreyears and ten, Twenty will not come again, And takefrom seventy springs a score, It only leaves me twenty more. 
Bernard Shaw could have applied his cynicism to the romance of the Shropshire lad. "Youth is a wonder­ful thing," Shaw said. "What. a crime to waste it on children." Maybe we could apply to growing up what Samueljohnson more or less said about "Paradise Lost": "One wouldn't miss going through it for anything. But having done it once, one is not tempted to do it a second time." If however, as an old Greek pointed out, we could be twice young and twice old, we could correct all our mistakes. 
One ofthe difficulties ofbeing a Notre Dame student-or a student anywhere -is that so much con­forming to the image is required. Students feel that they are told: "You're lucky to be here on this wonderful campus. These are the best years ofyour life. Be grateful, and don't rock the boat. Domers love their school days, because that's the Notre Dame tradition." Rocking the boat has nothing to do with overthrowing the traditions. 
To avoid rocking the boat, you keep the mask in place that hides the suffering. Happiness during the college years seems to be a require­ment oflife at an expensive school you should be proud to attend. To conform to the image that goes with being liberally educated in America, you hide the truth that you're carrying quite a few crosses. You act as through a law had been passed saying college students shouldn't cry. 
All of us have stories with sadness in them. When I was in college, my father died just before Christmas of my freshman year. My mother's health broke down as a result ofhis death. My sister's husband left her, leaving her with two children to raise, one ofthem an infant. My brother was incapacitated for life from a serious auto accident. As a freshman, I saw all my family un­dergo hardships that got worse as the years went by, and I was too proud to tell anyone how tough things were at home. 1mention it now as part ofthe story I never talked about because it seemed like nobody's business. I know from experience what it's like to baa secret worrier. Such worrying leaves you wounded for life; often it leaves you in need ofgreat healing. Across that is shared is only half as heavy. 

Anumber ofstudents have stories of their own. Everyone is entitled to be a secret worrier, keeping his personal and family problems private, if he wishes to. But it's a mistake for any ofus to believe that all the others we meet are so carefree that they couldn't understand or be sympathetic to the domestic tragedies that visit nearly every home. We are fur­nished with families that include members whom we may need to protect as the victims ofhard luck. 
Alot ofheartbreak goes on be­hind the scenes, some of which people bring on themselves-be­cause they drink or gamble or love unwisely. Some ofus are plagued by the interior demons which leave us ashamed. You don't need a catalogue ofwoes from me to see what I'm talking about. There are troubles that come with the ter­ritory as a price for being alive, and the world doesn't spare anyone from being wounded by life sooner or later. To be spared all crosses is so exceptional that it seems like a condition that is less than human. 
I'm not interested in loading down students, wild about frisbee, with gloom and doom about the harshness ofexistence. But perhaps it's part of the Easter message to point out that when the Lord oflife came back from the tomb, they knew Him by His scars. God in­troduced Himself to us through His son suffering on the Cross. Reveal­ing Himself, He identified with our suffering; the God who will judge us has lived through pain. He could have gone easier on Himself; but to show that He loves us, He spared Himself nothing. The Unmoved Mover. whom the philosophers wrote about made our acquain­tance as the Man ofSorrows. 

ND vs. USC Match-ups Remembered 
Editor's note: 
This is the 22nd episode in The Observer's 
serialpublication ofthe JVotre Damefoot­
ball story, "The Gtpper's Ghost," byNotre 
Dame graduateRobertQuakenbush. In the 
last episode, with star running back Dutch 
Reagan sidelinedbya broken leg, the Irish 
prepared to meetfirst-ranked USC. 
Pep Talks 
'T'tte entire student body sang the Notre .l Dame Victory March from beginning to end: 
Rallysons ofNotre Dame: Sing herglory andsoundherfame. Raise her Gold andBlue Andcheer with voices true: Rab, rab,Jor Notre Dame. We willfight in every game, Strong ofheart and true to her name We will ne'er forget her And will cheerherever Loyal to Notre Dame. Cheer, cheer for oldNotre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunderfrom the sky. What though the odds begreat orsmall? OldNotre Dame will win over all. While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory! 

For the next halfhour, various spokesmen addressed the team, including "Wild Bill" Fallon and Father Cockrell. Finally, Father Patrick Romano, the president of Notre Dame, approached the microphone. 
"It's been a long time since this little American school with the French name and the Irish nickname has had a football team whose record matched this Univeristy's commitment to excellence. But now you young men have made us proud, winning eight games in a row and conducting your­selves with as much grace in victory as you had shown in defeat. We wish you success on Saturday, but want you to know that we will be proud ofyou, whether you win or wheth­er you lose, because you are part of the Notre Dame family!" 
Then, Father Romano himself led the students in singing the alma mater, "Notre Dame, Our Mother." 

In the soft light reflected by the golden dome, visible between Zahm and Cavanaugh Halls, the student body rekindled the true spirit ofNotre Dame. 
Rivalry History 
'"J1le greatest college football rivalry of 
.l them all matched Notre Dame with USC. 
The Fighting Irish and the Trojans had shared 
the most memorable series in college foot­
ball. 

The long and storied tradition had 
assumed epic proportions. Many games and 
players had become the stuffoflegends; 
some ofthe games even had names oftheir 
own. 

The first contest was held in 1926. Notre 
Dame won 13-12. 
The second was in 1927 at Soldier Field in 
Chicago, where a crowd of 120,000 watched 
the Irish win 7-6. 
Southern Cal got its turn in 1928, winning 
27-14. 

In 1929, Notre Dame won 13-12. In 1930, 
Rockne's last coaching victory came at 
Southern Cal. The Irish won 27-0. 
"The Game" often figured in the national championship. In 1964, Ara Parseghian's first year at Notre Dame, a storybook team­which had lost seven games the year before ­came within 1:33 ofwinning the national championship. What stopped them? A fourth quarter touchdown by the Trojans of Southern Cal. USC 20-ND 17. 
The next year, the Irish won the "Remember" game. Banners hung around campus the preceding week, including one on top of the golden dome itself, said just one word: REMEMBER. Southern Cal entered Notre Dame Stadium undefeated and departed with a loss. Notre Dame 28 -USC 7. 
In 1966, the Irish clinched a national championship with a 51-0 conquest. Accord­ing to legend but not verifiable fact, USC coach john McKay vowed he would never again lose to a Notre Dame team. Legend or not, he almost didn't. 
The teams tied 21-21 in 1968. That day the Irish held a Trojan senior, 0.). Simpson, to his all time low, 55 yards on 21 carries. 
So1411Jern Cal spoiled another perfect season in 1970. The Irish were 9-0. USC won 38-28.Joe Theismann and the team took out their trustratioas on a Texas team that had won 30 consecutive games by beating them in the Cotton Bowl 24-11. 
Anthony Davis scored six touchdowns for USC in 1972. He started by takmg the opening kickoff 97 yards for the first ofsix touchdowns. He performed a little dance on his knees in the end zone after all six. USC 
45-ND 23. 

By the time the Trojans visited Notre Dame the next autumn, they had gone 23 games without a loss. Hundreds ofcopies ofa photograph ofAnthony Davis -on his knees in the end zone -literally wallpapered the campus. The Observer ran one full page which featured the same photo-six times! 
Anthony Davis was held to 55 yards as the Irish outrushed the Trojans 316 to 68. Eric Penick's electrifying 85 yard gallop keyed the first Notre Dame victory since 1966. The final scoring 49 unanswered points. USC 55-ND 24. 

Who could forget Dan Devine's "Green Jersey" game ofl977. The Irish warmed up in blue, went back to the locker room and returned wearin' the green to conquer the favored Trojans 49-1 9. Notre Dame went on to beat No. 1 ranked Texas in the Cotton Bowl. The Irish were voted national cham­pions. 
In 1984, Gerry Faust achieved something no Irish coach had accomplished since Ara Parseghian in 1966. In a muddy battle, Faust's Irish defeated USC in the Los Angeles Coliseum. 
score was Notre Dame 23-USC 14. After the game, someone suggested that perhaps Penick should have completed his run by sliding on his knees in the USC end zone. Penick sharply responded, "I'm no hot dog. This is Notre Dame." 
The game propelled Notre Dame toward a national championship. Ara's Irish upset No. 1 ranked Alabama 24-23 in the Sugar Bowl to finish the season 11-0. 
Southern Cal got even the next year, and how! Notre Dame led 24-6 at the half. USC enjoyed the next 17 minutes by nonchalantly 
Last year had been a disaster for Notre Dame. The only bright point for the Irish had been the discovery of Hart Collins. Kelly put the fourth-string freshman in at the start of the fourth quarter. Collins scored a touch­down on his first play as Notre Dame quarter­back. 
As far as the Irish were concerned, however, the overall memory of that 63-6 defeat was still a fresh wound. To be continued ... 
From "The Gipptr's Ghost," copyright 198~ by Robert 
Quakenbush. Published by O'Connor Publishing Co. Reprinted by permission. 
Friday, April 18, 1986 -page 7 
.. .and behind gate number 
two... 

A new car! 
LEICESTER CHEONG 
features writer 
'vr ell seniors, you'll soon be 
W leaving this institution to go out and make your mark in the world. You've worked hard and survived four challenging years at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, and you deserve a break. 
A break for you seniors is predsely what Mario Manta (class 
of 'H3) had in mind. Presently a branch manager at the First Source Bank, Mario initiated and master­minded the entire automobile exhibition that's coming to the ACC on April !H. What's this exhibition all about? Read on for the scoop. 
According to Manta, many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates seek l<l buy brand new cars almost immediately after graduation. However, this can be quite an ad­vt·nture. Hopping around dealer­s hips all over wwn and haggling for the bt·st deals are major hassles, u nlt·ss one happens to have a parent who owns IBM. Price negotiating 
can be hindered because car dt·alers know that most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's grads an· offered jobs that pay a starting salary of least 20 grand. Searching for financ­i ng without having a credit history can also post· a problem. 
Then again, how can an out-of­state studt·nt know that he won't get a better deal on a car at his or her own hometown? The coming exhibition was devised to provide solutions to all these problems. 

Manta and his team have visited some 15 reputable car dealerships around the South Bend area, and those dealerships willing to make special price concessions for graduating Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sutdents have beeri invited to the exhibition. 
What kind of deals are these dealerships offering? According to Manta, "There is no way that this year's NO and SMC graduates can find a better deal on a new '86 car anywhere else." 
For example, a Cutlass Siera that retails for S 12,012 will be up for grabs at the show for S 10,800. A Pontiac 6000 LE (limited edition) that has a sticker price of S 11,740 will be offered for S 10,744. Yet another dealership has agreed to reduce the price of a Chevrolet Celebrity from S10,300 to S9,250. 
"It would be hard to generalize about the savings that can be ac-h ieved at this show," Manta said, "because each individual dealership is willing to offer a different deal. Furthermore, the savings on im­p orts will obviously be slightly I ower, this being consistent with 
Old classic revived 
FRAN NORTON 
features urlter 
Last night in the Library Auditorium, 
Cavanaugh Hall Productions presented 
"Arsenic and Old Lace." What has made this 
particular presentation special is that all pro­
ceeds from the play go to the Andy Sowder 
Scholarship fund. 
the fund was started in memory of former 
c.avanaugh president Andy Sowder, who 
dted of spinal meningitus in 1979. Hopeful­
ly, a large turnout of generous theater goers 
will put the fund over the top this weekend. 
the action of the play revolves around 
Mortimer Brewster and his effort to fight the 
forces of entropy which attack his world. 
Mortimer is a drama critic unhappy with his 
job who loves to slash the awful plays he is 
forced to review. 
He is beleaguered in his attempt to lead a 
normal life by his two aunts, Abby and Mar­
tha (played by Sue Haverkamp and Susan 
Hamilton), who are fond of poisoning the 
e!derly men who come seeking lodging. They 
fmd that the combination of arsenic 
strychnine and cyanide, added to a glass of 
elderberry wine, does quite nicely. 
Brewster's brother Teddy, who believes 
that he is Teddy Roosevelt, conveniently 
buries the late gentlemen, or "Yellow-fever 
victims," in the "Locks of the Panama 
Canal" that his is digging in the basement. 
Matters are further complicated when a se­cond brother, Janothan (Steve Staresinic) arrives. He is a deranged mass-murdere; who currently wears the face of Boris Karloff because of a mistake by his drunken and inept plastic surgeon, Dr. Einstein (Charlie Callaghan). Confused? 
Several performances are worth noting. Both Haverkamp and Hamilton were wo~derfully believable as the senile, old, doting aunts who love visitors. Sanclra McBride, playing Brewster's girlfril..td Elaine, managed to pull off a difficult role beautifully. 


the demand-and-supply law. But rest assured that all the prices at the show have been personally negotiated and researched by my colleagues and I, and they are prices t hat cannot even be matched by any other dealerships anywhere else in the country." 
The First Source Bank will provide the financing for any car purchased from this show. Only a 10 percent deposit and a letter of employment acceptance is required for approval, and these do not have to be immediately presented at the exhibition. 
This is an exclusive only for NO and SMC grads, as students from these two schools have generally proven themselves to be very responsible and good debtors in the past. So no credit history is re-q uired, no possesion of credit cards necessary. This privilege also holds f or out-of-state students. 
Another student exclusive of­f ered by First Source is a 90-day deferment of the first loan payment. This is because most graduates will 


Mike Knotts, as Officer O'Hara, was ex­ceptional as the dim-witted would-be playwright. Although prospective corpse Bob Kelly was only on stage a few minutes, he also made the most of it. Hopefully, these last two actors will have larger roles in future productions. 
However, the same hopes cannot be ex­pressed with Tom Mowle and Steve Danek. ~s Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Spenalzo, their ac­tmg was not up to par. Their movements were stiff and awkward, almost lifeless. Even though their characters were of major importance, neither had any stage presence. They may as well have acted inside a box. 
Cavanaugh Hall Productions did an ad­mirable job with the set, despite the fact that a partial extension had to be added to the stage. Although the acting area is limited for the actors, nearly every seat has a front row view. This produces an intimate atmospherf" for the production. 
De 01JoonerllmwSIIDdler 

Patrick Lynch and Sandra McBride face offin Cavanaugh Hall Productions. "Arsenic and Old Lace." 
be taking the summer off for a long­needed vacation and will only be starting work after that. 
Financing by First Source wiiJ be 
based on a annual11.9 percent simple interest with no pre· p ayment penalty. This means that interest is calculated only on the outstanding balance still owed, unlike the GMAC financing system where interest is based on the total initial sum owed, and the threat ofa pre-payment penalty exists. No pre-payment penalty means that if the entire loan or a major propor· t ion of it is paid up at a certain time period that is short ofan arranged payment period, no extra dollars will be charged. So the faster the loan is paid up, the more the savings 
agai nst the interest. No tricks, no sneak}' additional charges. 
This exhibition benefits all in­
volved. The graduating students will have the convenience ofshop· ping for a new car in one spot, while having the confidence of knowing that he or she will be getting a special deal from a r cputed dealership. Searching for low, simple interest financing wit· h out a prior credit history will be not be a problem. 
The dealerships will enjoy profi1 from volume sales even with a price-cut for each automobile sold, not to mention free publicity and advertisement. First Source Bank will have improved business and public relations. And Manta will have the satisfaction of knowing t hat he has done his part for his alma mater. 
The exhibition will be held in the A CC on April 18 fr om 9 a.m. to .o; 
p.m. There will be 1 5 dealerships represented, and a five-member t earn from the First Source Bank will be present to process financing procedures and offer financial counseling. 
So if a new car is on your mind, this is your time! 

The Scoop 

Theater 
• The Holiday Star Theater presents an evening of comedy tonight with Louie 
Anderson, Brad Garrett, and Blake Clark. Tickets to the 8 p.m. show are 513.95. 

Movies 
o 
The Student Activities Board presents "The Razor's Edge" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Admis­sion· to the 7, 9:15 and 11:30 p.m. shows is s1.50. 

o 
The department ofcommunication and theater hosts the film "City ofWomen" tonight at 7:30 and 9:30p.m. in the Annen· berg Auditorium. Tickets are S1.50. 

o 
The spring semester film series at Indiana University at South Bend continues Saturday and Sunday night .with the film "The Deer Hunter.". Admission to the 8 p.m. showing in the Little Theater of Northside Hall on the IUSB campus is S1.75. 


Art 
~I 

o Opening Sunday is the exhibit Artists Designers: The 1986 Notre Dame Student Exhibition at the Snite Museum of Art. The opening is from 2 to 4 p.m. 

jMuslc 
• The nation's oldest Collegiatejazz Festival returns tonight and tomorrow night with a series of concerts in Stepan Center. Tonight's concert begins at 7:30p.m., and tomorrow's at II :30 a.m. and 7:30p.m. Announcement of awards will follow the 
7:30 performance. Tickets are S5 for the evening sessions and J3 for the afternoon session and are available at the door. 
·o The Department of Music presents The 
Notre Dame Olamber Orchestra Sunday 
in the Annenberg Auditorium at 4 p.m. 
Admission is free. 
• Bethel College presents Grammy award­winning recording artist Russ Taffwith sp~cial guest Phll Keaggy tomorrow night a Bethel College. Tickets to the 7:30p.m. show ~~e S7. 50 and arc available at the Bethel 
College Box Office. 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Andre Leveille, CSC at 'i p.m. 
(Saturday night vigil). 
Father Gregory Green, C..SC at 9 a.m. 
Father Andre Leveille, C.SC at 10:30 a.m. 
and 12:15p.m. 
The rosary is said daily at 6:45p.m. at the Grotto. 
James Carroll 

Drew Sandler 
Photo Managers 
The photos for this spread were taken by Observer Photo Managers, Drew Sandler and James Carroll. 

~ 
Road to Stepan 
It's a fever that hits cam· pus every spring, and on a campus swollen with traditions, this Is one of the best Respect Is measured as much by the accuracy of a jumpshot as by the open lewdness of the team name. It's a sloppy sport to be sure. The Inside game often resembles the open hostility of a Middle Eastern picnic, yet under It all, the common denominator Is fun. 


-

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t___________________Fr-id~ay~,~~ri-11~8,~19-86~-p~ag~e~10 
Deal with problem of pornography, not effects 
Sex and exploitation: are they always present together in the . media? For the op­ponents ofpornography, the answer is yes. Ac­cording to these people, the portrayal of graphic sex in film is linked with the subjuga­tion, subordination, brutalization, and manipulation ofboth women and men. 
Edward Augustine Tina Horowitz 
guest column 
Furthermore, some people believe that ex­ploitation in pornographic films does not end with the credits. Because pornographic films present role models who perform inhumane and violent actions their effects are long­lasting and pervasive. 
"Pornography is violence against women" and "End victimization now" are some of the slogans the anti-pornography movement has adopted in its effort to call the public's atten­tion to the production, marketing, and viewing of "blue" movies. Legislation which restrict pornography is the main goal of demonstrators at college campuses and movie theatres nationwide. 
petuates violent and demeaning stereotypes and may even create these stereotypes in some cases. But we don't believe that censor­ship is the solution. 
Censorship is never an easy solution to a complex problem. Our society's apparent need to be violent and sexist is the inherent problem-not pornography, the symptom of this need. This is the issue we must address. Inquiry and discussion are essential to a fuller understanding of the marketing of ex­ploitative sexuality. 
Toward that end, people must learn to dis­tinguish between the harmful stereotypes pornography perpetuates and the non­subordinating aesthetic nature of erotica. Before pornography can be disarmed of its harmful effects, society will have to change drastically; restrictive laws will not ac­complish that change. Rather, they will inhibit change by limiting freedom of choice. We believe that we must deal with the problem and not only with its effects. 
Edward Augustine is a junior Program of Liberal Studies major at the University of Notre Dame and Tina Horowitz is a junior English and communications major at the University ofPennsylvania. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Europeans see attack as provocative, unwise 
Dear Editor: 
So why do we European allies give the 
U.S. raid on Libya such a negative response? Being a West German citizen myself, I think you might be interested in my perception of the matter. 
For one thing, Europe still remembers how ugly a thing war is; if as in my case, your own folks told you how it feels to come out of the bunker and not to have anything left of what used to be your home, you think twice before you cheer about an air raid. 
Secondly, we don't think the mission has achieved anything positive. It was supposed to teach the Libyans that there is a price to be paid if you get involved in terrorism. It was supposed to damage Libya's capability to 
support terrorism.  But neither of these aims  
has been achieved.  
Think about it:  how would you feel if  

some enemy's forces, for whatever reason, flashed into and out of your country, leaving destruction and innocent victims behind? I would be very surprised if the reaction America's strike causes in an average Libyan is anyting but sheer hate. 
Yes, the U.S. planes did succeed to 

Yet there are other people who believe that sex in film does not always have to be ex­ploitative. They believe that the portrayal of graphic sex can fall into at least two distinct categories: erotica and pornography. Not necessarily adversaries of the anti­pornography campaign, defenders of erotica accept that much ofthe sexuality in the media is exploitative. But they insist that when grap­hic sex is portrayed in an aesthetic, mutually consenting, non-violent, non-sexist fashion ­erotica · it must not be labeled pornography. 
Many of pornography's opponents do not make this distinction, and therefore aim their campaign against all portrayals of graphic sex in the media, including erotica. People who appreciate erotica as an art form are fighting to preserve the distinction between erotic and pornography and thus to uphold the freedom to produce and view new erotic material. 
A third factor in the pornography debate is the censorship question. People in the adult entertainment business as well as many sup­porters of freedom of expression insist that restricting the production and viewing of sexually explicit material will violate the First Amendment rights and impose "puritanical" values on society. De-emphasizing the demeaning aspects of sexually explicit 
material, they uphold the artistic merits of sexually explicit works. These opponents of anti-porn legislation believe that the anti-porn campaign, which includes erotica, is essen­tially an anti-sex campaign bolstered by the fundamentalist movement. 
As long as opinions vary on the issue of restricting pornography, the debate will con­tinue. Let us address a question to those groups who wish to legally censor sexually explicit materials: what will be the results of this type of legislation? Will it fundamentally change society's attitude towards sexuality? Or, perhaps more likely, will it force the production of violent and demeaning materials underground? We must remember that eradicating sexually explicit materials from society will not necessarily eradicate society's desire to exploit those without power, nor will it eradicate some people's desire to watch and enjoy this exploitation. 
These writers believe that the distinction between pornography and erotica is real -just as real as the distinction between exploitation and the aesthetic appreciation of consenting sexuality. We believe that pornography per-
damage some military material and to kill a few people who have supported terrorism. But all that, seen from a terrorist's point of view, is more or less replaceable. 
The more important thing America has done (and probably will keep doing) is to generate a good deal of genuine hate. No propaganda by Khadafy or by anybody else could possibly have done this job equally ''well". Reagan has opened a well from which terrorism will be able to drink for a long time. A man won't become a terrorist if you support him with guns and the like. A man becomes a terrorist if you teach him to hate. 
Plainly speaking, many Europeans think that the U.S. has done an unwise thing. They would prefer having a wise country as the mightiest and most decisive power in our 
alli:mce.  Rather than  one  which  is  just  
pr_oud.  
Andreas Krueger  
Graduate Student  

Miscellaneous expenses exploit students at ND 
Dear Editor: 
When I was a senior in hildl school, I at­tended a meeting for all the New York city area students who would be enrolling at Notre Dame in the fall semester. At this meeting, a spokesman for Notre Dame said that "although the cost of an Notre Dame education might seem extravagant, you'll find that this is one school which won't 'nickel and dime' you to death." I have to laugh. 
I am willing to overlook costs which directly benefit my social life and costs which are my own fault, (i.e. hall taxes, parking tick­
ets, etc.. ). I am not, however, willing to over­took many of the seemingly trivial expenses which I should not have to pay. In descending order, this includes: I) S50 for a sexually biased laundry system which consists of drop­ping my clothes into a vat of scalding bleach, only to emerge at one-quarter of the original size, and in which there arc no refunds, even if I do not use my very generous allotment of funds. 2) S40 for copies of notes to be handed out in five classes, because "it is very ex­pensive to Xerox all those notes". 3) H 5 to register my car with security. 4) SI0.25 to rent a cap and gown for graduation. 5) 54 per meal while living on campus whether I eat it or not and whether I want a meal plan or not. 
6) S 3 for use of our own golf course. 7) 60 cents for an apple juice out of the university­controlled vending machine (can be purchased at any store 3/S l ). Well, since I'm 
on a roll, why not throw in the ridiculous prices at the bookstore and the hideous 
monopoly which is the Notre Dame Credit Union. You might think that all this would be 
enough to prompt a letter to the editor. Not a chance. I was even willing to overlook these numerous injustices. Until today that is. Today I discovered that I must pay S I 5 for my diploma. This is, unfortunately. the fin3.1 straw for me. I am going to see what I can do about having my diploma printed up on Bounty paper towels, (which I will supply at no cost to the University). Even if I am successful, I will probably spend the next 20 years trying 
t u figure out what my tuition covered. 
Scott Cohan Notre Dame Student 
Viewpoint 
P.O. Box Q 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 
"Believe in yourselfl Have faith in your abilities! Remind your­self that God is with you and nothing can defeat Him." 
Norman Vincent Peale 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

General Board 

The Observer 
Edttor·in·Chtef. . . . . .... Joe Murphy Busmess Manager ... Errc Scheuermann Managing Ed1tor. . . Kevin Becker Controller. . . Alex VonderHaar 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpomt Edttor. . Scott Bearby Productton Manager. . . Chrts Bowler Sports Editor. . . . . Dennts Corrigan Photography Manager. . . James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Edt tor. . . . . . . . . .... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ........ Anne M.Culltgan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor. . . . . ... Margie Kersten Photography Manager. . Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Ex<1c.utive News Editor. . .......... Frank Lipo 
Systems Manager. . David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
News Editor . . . Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . . . Mark Wetmholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowskt their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 
The Observer Friday, April I8, I986-page I I 
Sports Briefs 

The ND/ SMC gymnastics team will not hold practice today but a banquet will be held tomorrow. For more information call Maureen Durkin at 284-'541 I.-The Observer 
Dancin' Irish tryoutswill be held tonight from 6 to 9 with the final cut to be made Sunday, April 20, from 3 to 6 p.m. in ACC gym 2. All tryouts and clink'S are open to the public. For more information call Sue Novak at 283-3484. ·The Obsen1er 
The An Tostal golftournament will be held Tuesday, April 22, at I I a.m. at the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Two-person teams may enter the best-ball tournament and no prior registration is nccc<."Ssary. There is a S3 entry fcc per person. For more informa­tion call Robert Spoonmore at 283-1881.-The Obsen1er 
The An Tostal bike race will be held Thursday. April 24, on the Saint Mary's campus. All interested two-person relay teams must register by Tuesday, April 22. For more information call John Cahill at 283-2506.-The Observer 
The An Tostal Hangover 5-K rllflwill be 
held on Saturday, April 26, at 9:30 a.m. starting at Stepan Center. Registration will take place the morning of the race at 8:30, also at Stepan. For more information calljeffWesthoven at 283-3'559.-The Obsen1er 
Saint Mary'sis accepting applications for aerobic instruc­tors for next year. If interested, contact Mary Jo Lambert at the Angela Athletic Facility at 284-5548.-The Observer 
Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 16 
difference as S. Gibbs For UMOC won by nine. 
The Redwings won a tough game against a talented Rythmn Methods squad by a 21-17 margin. Terry Andrysiak shot 7-of-12 and Mike Ol­sen 6-of-9 to lead The Redwings. Andrew Hamilton had nine h<x>ps in a losing effort. 
There are no games scheduled for today, as Bookstore takes a rest bet­ween the second and third rounds. Round three will be completed this weekend, with 64 games scheduled for Saturday and Sunday. 
Tht• Ohsan·r 'otn· l>dmt· olfitt· lot Jlnl on lht· lhord Ooor of l.al onunt· ~llllknl ( l'nllT d<ll'f'l' tla'"finJ ad1 l'rl"lll!( Irom') J no unlll t p no \lonc.Ja1 throU!(h I roc.la1 7hl' llhst•rr·t•r ~Jill I \ldn 'olfott· lotdll'c.l on lht· thorc.l floor of IIJ!(!(Jr ( ollt'!(<' ( l'nln J<<t·ph tla'"linl' lrom I 2 ~~~ p m unto I ~ p m . \Ion d.l\ tllllll!(h I roc.IJI lkadilnt· lor ""'·' dJI <IJ"olinl' ,, ~ rIll \II tiJ'"Ikc.J, mu'l ht· prl'paod. l'lthn 111 pn,on or Ill noaol ( harl(<"" Ill <<"Ill' pn Ill<"< hara<
Classifieds 
lt·r-t·r lla1 
NOTICES 
Typing Avaolable 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHillS 
234-8"7. 
Wordpr0C8811ng-Typ1ng 272-8827 
Typong/Wordproceuing 277-8131 

PliO.TYPE • 15 yrs. eKp 1ludenl & law papera. r88umee, dluertabons 277­5833 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE CALL MRS COKER. 233-7009 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for 
• week II Fort Watton Beach, South Padre laland and Daytona Beach! Huny, caN Sunchaae Tours for more information loll free 1·80D-321-5911 TODAY' When lhaliuiiMI i1 over .Break for The Beach wtlh Sunchue' 
GOVERNMENT JOBS $16,040 ­$59,230/yr Now Hiring. Call 805-687· 6000 Ext R·9834 lor current federal lilt. 
IPIIINO IALEII Save up to 50 l*'c:ent Apr.17·30-IT. FIIANCII IHOPPE­behind Fatima-Center, Open tO a.m.-5 p.m. Mon.·let. 
CLAIIIFIEDI FOil THE NEXT PU.UIHING DAY WILL n Ac­CEPTED UNTIL 2 P.M. DAILY. 
REVOLUTION II 
REVOLUTION II 
IIEVOLUTIONII 
THECELLAII 

(N D .., only .Wdent record etore) 11 now accep&ngemp/oyee appNcationa! AppNcaflo,. 11'11 available 11 The Cellar (In the baoemet~f of LAFortune), and are due by Wedn..day. Aprll23. 
LOST/FOUND I 

LOST: LAST FRIDAY, APRIL 4TH, AT THE AMERICANA DURING THE HOLY CROSS SYR. I BLUE BACK-PACK CONTAINING IMPORTANT ITEMS. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT MARY AT 284-5178A.S.A.P 
FOUNO:CANON CAMERA CASE AF35M at lhe SENIOR FORMAL. CAU JOHN al287 -8518. 
LOST:MINOLTA FLASH CASE AT SENIOR FORMAL. PLEASE CAU JOHN AT 287· 6518. 
LOST IN THE VICINITY OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET ON ST. RD. 23 -A WALLET WITH MANY MEMBERSHIP CARDS, VISA CARD. DRIVER'S LICENSE, ETC., SSO REWARD FOR FINDER. RETURN TO MSGR. FRANCIS SAMPSON. CORBY HALL, NOTRE DAME. IN 46558 
LOU HOLTZ didn't take my umbrella by accident from the SOUTH DINING HALL after dinner on 4-14, but maybe YOU did?? 1111 blacl<,it'l a ToiM,it 11 automatic and II hu a brown handle. II by chance you have millakenly taken my umbrella. PLEASE drop II oN al LOST&FOUNO on the 1econd lloor of LaFortune or call 2298 before It rains on my head I Thank You. 
MISSING-CROSS fountain pen; inlllall EMG. The value of lhe pen transcends any monetary conlideraliona. If you took II, I'll buy you your own when you return it. 23-4-73SO 
LOST: BLUE WOOL JACKET FROM PARTY AT 8t4 CORBY SATURDAY NIGHT. JUST GOT IT FOR CHRISTMAS AND LIKE IT A LOT. IF YOU TOOK IT PLEASE CALL ME AND I WON'T BE MAO! REWARD. CALL MARK 1765. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME JACKET WITH WHITE LETTERS ON BACK. LOST ON WEDNESDAY 4/9 AT STEP­HEN COURTS AFTER BOOKSTORE GAME. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 3280. 
LOST:GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH (WITH SCRATCHED CRY$­TAL).UNFORTUNATELY WAS LOST QUITE SOMETIME AGO.(I HOPE YOU HAVEN'T GROWN TOO ATTACHED TO IT).POSSIBLY LOST AT ACC SWIM POOL.REWARO(ANO NO QUES­TIONS). PLEASE CALL 3289,ASK FOR BRIAN IF FOUND. 
LOST: MENS'S GOLD NO RING. LOST ON 4/10. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN FLANNER AND SOUTH DINING HALL. IF FOUND. CAU STEVE AT 289-5189. 
LOST BASKETBALL AT THE ROCK ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT. I KNOW THAT B­BALLS ARE A HOT ITEM NOWADAYS, BUT PLEASE CALL JULIE AT 4001 IF YOU DID FINO IT. 
PLEASE, HAVE A HEART' MY HOPES OF A BOOKSTORE CHAMPIONSHIP COULD BE GOING RIGHT DOWN THE DRAIN-BUT YOU CAN HELP!!! IF YOU HAPPENED TO FINO A BASKETBAU AT THE ROCK ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT PLEASE CALL JULIE AT 4001 AND MAKE MY LIFE WORTH LIVING AGAIN. 
FOR RENT 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE: TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
Summer School Rental Large 9 room houoe. 4 bdrm1, carpeta & drapea. Near campus. Furnoahed or unfurnlahed. 272· 8185. 
NEED ONE OR TWO ROOMMATES FOR NEXT YEAR. IN A HOUSE OFF OF PORTAGE AVE NEAR MARTINS. $65 OR $87/MO PLUS UTILITIES. CAU ROB(K1245) OR R0B(K1772) 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS Apert-available lor Fai'H 
8Month~ 
272-1441 
HOUSE FOR RENT In Leeper Part< May 15-Aug 22. $310/mo. util.lnc. ideal for 2. 287-4024 
CLEAN 2bdrm HOUSE on NO Ave for summer rental. FuN furnilhed.287-6625 from4-6pm. 
WANTED 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,04Q-$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 1­805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current federalllll. 
SUMMER ROOMMATE needed.Brendenw'dApta.caiiK15451ale. 
WANTED Used woman's bicycle al a reasonable price. Call Berty 11239-5604 
Used Apple lie equipment. Call Mark at 233-8803 and leave a meeaage. Thanks. 
.................................................. 
I WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOil TWO (2) COMMENCEMENT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL BIIUCE AT 4501 ANYTIME. 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE· MENT EXERCISES. WIU PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. BEFORE 10. 
NEED ONLY ONE TICKET TO COM· MENCEMENT WIU PAY $$$$$ CALL PAUL AT 1701 Want to rent a furnilhed apartment near NOforlheaummer. Pleaeeca11Jodl4544. 

-Roommate In CHICAGO alter grad. c.lllllob •1743 
NEED RIDE TO TOLEDO/CLEVELAND ALONG 1·80: 4/18-4/20 CALL MONIKA 3772 
SLEEPING QUAIITEIII I'm too dumb lo graduate in May. eo I need a place lo slay for Fall Semester. If you have an e•tra room,l woN pay a fair amounllo even sleep on porch. call1986. 
HELP WANTED Motel O.k Clerk, Immediate Opanlne, Evenlnga, FuH/Part-tlme Avail. through Summ.,.CaH 231-1154 7a.m.: 1p.m. 
FOR SALE 
SEU YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ AND CREDIT! Cliff notea available. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 
78 Dallun B210. Moving, mu11aell. Good condition. 272-9531. 
Appla ///lya1em Complete with 256K RAM, Clock/Calendar, numeric keypad, monitor, and bulh~n diak drive. System ln­ctudea a Service Contract covering all parta and labor through September 1986, Haba Systems /// E-Z Piecea integrated word pr0C8810r, spreadsheet and dallbue. Apple Acceu Ill communica­tions pacl<age and 4 e•panaion lllota. Mull sacrifice al $700. Add 1 ProFile 5Mb hard dillk and interlace for a package price of $1,100. ProFile and Interface separately for $500. For more information or a demonstration call Mart< at 239-5600 days or 233-8803 evening8. 
FOR SALE: 1976 Ford Pinto 4 ap, 2 dr, hatch Beet offer: call Jim )1405 (after 10pm) 
11175 P-·Many new parta,body good,rellable tranaportalion:$400 or basi offer/287-6856 
FOR SALE-SANSUI 55 WATT STEREO RECEIVER MODEL 681, B.I.C BELT DRIVE TURNTABLE W/SHURE M95EO CARTRIDGE, O'SUUIVAN FULL RACK SYSTEM W/ RECORD STORAGE, AND 4 AL TEC LANSING SPEAKERS. SOUNDS GREAT. CALL MIKE-1543 OR MARK AT 262-2023 FOR MORE INFO 
1981 Datsun 210 high milage great gas milage $2000 or best offer Catl283·1724 
NEED WHEELS FOil THE IUMMEII? 1968 AMC Ambuaador, automatic, VB, good transportation. $600 or basi offer. Call 287-5235 after 5 p.m. or any1ime on weekends. 
80 Dodge Coii.Gold,FWD.2dr.4· Sp.GOOD CONDITION.$1,200/Best Of­fer. 277·8763 
5 Bdrm. house. Fully furniehed. All appliances & lumiture included. Great in­veelmenl. Nice nelghborttood. 4 miles from N.D. $20,000. Call evenings 268­3109. 
FOR SALE • 2.-lol1, finished & stained, black vinyl lov-t, and 2 dr....,.. CaM Sheila 81272·1068. 
FOR SALE -78 DODGE CHALLENGER E•cellenl Condition. Sporty (Silver w/ racing stripes) $1500 or bell offer Call 283-3282. Ask for Sang or Jeff. 
TICKETS 
Tony Lovee Maria May 1,2,3 & May 15,16,17 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hodlne. counseling 
& lree pregnancy Ieala. 
WOMEN'S CAllE CENTER 
OAII HOUSE: COLD BEEIII UQUOII. CAIIIIY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE al 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday: 5pm-2am Friday: 3pm-1am Saturday: 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
LAAURA-Do you know what Sunday Ia? 
AN T08TAL T·IHIIITS AND MUGS CAN BE PICKED UP IN THE OFFICE ON lUNDAY FROM 1-7, ON MONDAY FIIOM 1-5 AND ON TUESDAY FIIOM s­
5. IIRINO YOUII MONEY WITH YOU. 
FRANK ('Magnum') from ALUMNI--I ap· preciate your 'ho.-ty' thil weekend--and I'm sorry you've had difficulty coming, but don't walt for me. Ill something your' a jull going to have lo do by yourself. 
To HOWDY DOODY AND THE THREE STOOGES FROM ALUMNI-Gel off your high horsea. We've aeen beHer ...a lot bel· ler. 
JACK IS BACK!II 
tat SOURCE BANK PRESENTS The 1986 New Car Sale NDACCApril18th '85 BMW 318 · $14,700 '86 Celebrity· $9,2SO '86 Cullaa aara-$10,800 '86 Ponllac6000 LE • $10,744 For more Info. c.IIIIMoU.nlll 
2311-.2201 
JUQQUNO CLUB Anyone lnlereeled In joining juggling club ne•t fall, call Bill K1190. No eKperlence needed. 
Established Band. Into New Music • Loot<lng for a Guitarist and Drummer for NeKI Year, CALL MIKE 1778 
IRISH GARDENS... IRISH GAR­OENS...IRISH GARDENS We are now accepting appllcationl lor FALL EMPLOYMENT! Come by now and picl< up an appUcation. We're In the basement of LaFor1une.You must be on financial aid. 
"Seems so long I've been walling, 11111 don't know what for. There's no poinlln escaping, I don't worry anymore. I can't come out to find you, I don'liike to go outaide. They can tum off my feelings, like they're turning off the lighll." 
Phil Collins 
"Take Me Home" 
Logan Volunt88111: Don't forget aboullhe 
campoul this weel<end-9:00 Saturday 
morning lo 2:00 Sunday. Bring blanketa 
and a pillow. Oaring new volunl88111 
welcome. 
................................................................ 
JUST WHO IS THE NUCLEAR FETUS, AND WHERE DID HE COME FROM? 
ASK YOUII NEIOHBOR-NUCLEAII FETUS FOil UMOCI 
................................................................ 
"PIIACllCE SHOTS" at 3 o'clock KICKOFF· ITEPAN at 8 o'clock JUST FOil THE HELLUVIT va. FOUR FIIOOI AND A UMEY 
NO/SMC CHARITY BALL 
ND/SMC CHARITY BALL 
The all1rllv....,UO Ia only two weeks 
away.. 
ruad CAEMGEN MIRGIUS: If you really want to 'be friends'. why don't you try acting like one? ·aar· 

llertcelay ·EX-t It'a our tum -IIEVOLUTIONI­CoupDuL8c Beau• Alta ...-Tonight 10pm Archll8ci\IN •ullclnt Tha Pat Giblin •nd Ticketa: S4 .,......, ss door Dr.alora REVOLUTION! 
John, hope you're not TOO TIRED lo have a great 22, babycakea! We'll have the Beet eemealer yet! Happy B-Day. Love 'ya always, Your 'Deadhead' 
Like, do you know what April 20th II? 1...1 don't know! Don't you know any1hing? Don't be stupid! It's Kathy ...,rmann'a birthdayIll Nol to be redundant over and over again, julia reminder that thal"mud­brown" bombehell from KC will be celebrating her laal year of Illegality. Thil poignant (emotionally moving) event (I didn't ask how II smelled!) will be celebrated by another perlormance of a California Nightclub Dancer lmperaona­tion while "11'1 Raining Men." We hope II' I totally (completely altogether) the hap-pleat ever! I Love Your BeaiMI Budl UaaandKathy 
JACK WHO? Ben is the greateal without a doubt! -Hogan's Hero's 
.............................................. HAPPY 20TH IIIITHDAY UIA 011­
CHENI Wish Liaa a happy bir1hday (Sun.). Stop by 209 PW or cal thla hot mamma al 
2955. Thlnldn' about ya, Marta 
NO GRADUATE NEEDS ONE COM­MENCEMENT TICKET· DESPERATELY-BIG BUCKS$$ 
CALL DREW AT 272-4540 
Vu/cana never btu" 
GUYS, Want to make a great g8l happy? Call Bath Sunday al 2923 & wi1h her a happyb-dl 
AI a huah lalla over the congregated Pr• 
Mad geeka... She orrivea, aha •-· ahe kicks Ita I Good tucl< on MCAT'l, Kris­lina...Love, Sieve 
THANK YOU ST JUDE I HAVE FAITH IN YOU 
To the peraon who STOLE THE .OOK FIIOM THE IMC ENOUIH DEPT OFFICE I don't know why you fell thai you had to take thai blue hl1tory boo!<, but II was very important to a project thai wu underway, and I -hoping you would return It II willlal<e monthl lo make up for all the work that thoae lillie llne1 In the book repreeenled. Please bring II backlll English aide, SMC 
Steve Auerbach How about a beer? Where did the old times go? The City Pub Club 
Cutish blonde with cal ahlrt hulncredlble urge to live a fun Nle. Now will someone pleaae tell her how to do it? (You know who you are.) -Cutiah-blond•with-cal­shirt 
K~T 

You cooter-drinking, quarter-playing. slap-happy, Shaker-staying, fun-loving ma-l's. Thanks for auch a IUPEII weekend I R. Mierda 
FRIENDS OF THE GUILD STEVEN 'WALLY' WALKER TUIINI 21 TOMOIIIIOW. HE .EQINI HIS IIOAD TO DEATH TONGHT. FAREWELL KISSES ACCEPTED .EFORE 11 PM. PLASTIC BAGI NEEDED AFTER 12 AM. AFIIOTC CADETI-THIIII YOUII CHANCE TO AIIUIE YOUII FUGHT COMMANDER WITHOUT HIM 
KNOWING IT. FORGET ABOUT WAKING UP AT 10 AM, WALLY. 
TODAY'$ WORD IS TEQUILA. WALLY WIU BE SPREADING IT AU OVER THE STREETS OF SOUTH BEND. 
DON'T FORGET ABOUT THAT MEETING AT 10 AM. WALLY. 
DIITRICT1 STUDENT SENATE ADVIIOIIY COUM­CIL 
Make sure the Student Senate ­
some/fling for you! Apply for a poaltion on the Dlatrlct 1 SENATE ADVISORY COUNCIL. Ap­plications are available from Student Government-2nd Floor Lafor1un&--or I rom Brian al2581. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE APRIL 25. 
USA, IF YOU CAN'T CELEBRATE A BIRTHDAY IN JUNE, YOU MIGHT AI WELL CELEBRATE IT IN APIItL. HAPPY BIRTHDAY!/ LOVE, Mil. JUNE 
27 
UIA 'Oh, Navermlnd' OIICHEN 
HAPPY 20th .RTHDAY SUNDAY APRIL 20th 
THANKS St. Jude II 
A fling in the epring-HEU YES! The quea­tiona are--who Ia first and how many. 
The 2nd Annual Spring Fing--an encounter that ahouldn'l be miuedl 
H.ther 
The Qodclaea from Walah Welovayou Your Breakful Fan Clubl 
If"'""''' a amite on my lace. 11'1 only there trying to foollhe public. 
111 clllya til tha CPA I 
MASCULINITY......SEXUALITY... MR. 
STANFORD COMING SOON TO A LIBRARY AUDITORIUM NEAR YOUIII 
MATT· THE ONLY PRE-MED I KNOW WHO CAN WRITE A SONG-BEST OF LUCK ON THE MCAT· YOU'U BE AWESOME-YOU DESERVE ITI LOVE, KEUY 
JOHN TANEFF & MIKE KEATING-whlla you are 1tilln good enough ahapelo read lhii·-GOOD LUCK ON MCATS. TAMMY & JULIE 
LUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU­GOOO LUCK ON MCATS PIIIIEEEETRAAAMAAAAS 
IS THAT ANKLE INJURY TO YOUR STAR FORWARD GETTING YOU OOWN? WEU FEAR NOT, YOU AN STIU MAKE IT TO THE FINAL FOUR. CALL 1976ANO RENT ME. 
Londoners--Londonera Cheera from the Lyona crowd (eap. the U.K.proa--A&A). Good lucl< on your 'Iough' finale. Don'l for­get your l.p. when travelling on the con­tinent. See you soon! 
Thanke to Dellble Adamczyk and U..v..., lor a er-t Dancln' lrlah re-I You clllaarvelhl PSYCHO a-... lor not tolnt cnryl Love, the '85-'11 
aquad. 
yyyy Happy Bir1hday Mary Berger From The Guys0n9 
DISCOUNTED T'l 
DomeraOoOallu 
Great keepaake ca11M73, 31558, 1040 
Tony Lovee Maria May 1,2,3 & May 15,16,17 
.................................................... 
I'M GLAD I MADE YOU'RE WEEK. I 
WOULD LIKE TO MEET YOU. WE CAN HAVE ...FUN. 
ONE SMC LOFT FOR SALE • CHEAPtll CAU 284-4401 
MATT GOOD LUCK TOMORROW! LOVE, PATTIE 

The Observer Friday, April 18, 1986-page 12 
O'Donovan didn't always know golf was his forte 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
When you think of Notre Dame teams today, you immediately as­sociate Allen Pinkett with football, and David Rivers with basketball. However, when you think of golf, if you do at all, a big question mark is all that probably registers. Well, it is time that this mystery man is revealed to one and all. His name is John O'Donovan. 
While he may not be a household 
name in the sports circles of Notre 
Dame, O'Donovan has done for the 
golf team what Pinkett and Rivers 
have done for their teams. He is the 
inspirational leader that every 
player on hiS team looks to, espe­
cially when meet time rolls around. 
The team wiU be at the Kepler In· 
vitational in Columbus, Ohio, this 
weekend. 
While most people discover those 
activities they enjoy as youngsters, 
O'Donovan was not envisioning 
spending hours every day on the 
links when he was young. 
"My Dad played a lot at the Grand Rapids C.C., but I didn't take the game seriously until high school," he says. Suprisingly, O'Donovan says his father didn't push him to play golf. But it seems safe to say that had he known his son's talent for golf, the situation may have been dif­ferent. Looking at O'Donovan's background and accomplishments, in and out of golf, leaves one with an unmistakable impression. 
O'Donovan graduated from Forest Hills Central High in Ada, Mich. He was recruited by Michigan State, but leaned towards Notre Dame. 
"I came here because of the out­standing academic environment at Notre Dame," he says. He is cur­rently president of the ski team, and has been captain for the last two years. He is in his second season as golf captain. He has many individual honors to his credit, including Mid­western Collegiate Conference all­star for the past two years, team MVP as a junior, winner of '83 Notre Dame Open with a 74 score, and winner ofthe '85 Spartan Fall Invita­tional. 
The Spartan Tournament, played at Michigan State, was O'Donovan's most satisfying golf memory of his college career. "Not only did we win the tournament, but from a personal standpoint I was honored that I was named medalist for the tourna­ment," he says. "Without a doubt, I would have to say that was a mo­ment that I will always remember." 
Though many sports competitors dream about being pros, John does not seem to be caught in the fantasy syndrome. "Sure, I would like to play golf professionally," he says. "But you have to be realistic and under­stand that you have got to be out­standing in order to make it. Look at Ben Hogan for instance, he sym­bolized the work ethic of the sport and his hard work paid off for him, Ben Hogan is golf." 
Irish coach Noel O'Sullivan calls O'Donovan a fine individual who is respected by his peers. "John is a tremendous guy," says O'Sullivan. I'm glad I've had the opportunity to coach him, and see him grow into a super young man. Not only is he an excellent leader on the golf course, but also an excellent person off the course. That is what makes John O'Donovan such a great all-around individual." 

DePby 
ln~ield 
PaPt 
I=REE. 
headband and two wristbands with every paid infield admission. Join us Saturday, May 3, in Louisville for the 1986 Kentucky Derby. Gates open at 8:00am. Infield admission is $20.00 per person. 
W -E 

© 1986 Churchill Downs Incorporated 
:::::::;:::==~·-= 



Howtobuya
Perfiormance You can use the American Express® Card 
little things, and the big·ticket items. that you'll want during college. 

How to get the Card before you graduate. Because we believe college is the first sign of success, we've made it easier for vou to get the American Express Card. Grad~ating students can get the Card as soon as they accept a SIO.OOO career-oriented job. If you·re not graduating yet. you can apply for a special sponsored Card. Look for student applications on campus. Or calll-800-THE·CARD. and tell them you want a student application. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without W', 


'.('"}
O'i Lt:S 0 I!> 
0 

·n
""0 
!! 

,O'l 
"" 

.......
·"" 

"C)
"' ~­


SAIL INTO NEXT YEAR 
WITH SUMMER COURSES 
AT JOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY 
SESSION I SESSION II 
June 16-July 18 July21-August22 
Gain one year in one summer! 
• 
Business • Mathematics 

• 
Computer Science • Natural Sciences 

• 
Education • Religious Studies 

• 
English • Social Sciences 

• 
Humanities ... and others 


'lb get oar Schedule of Summer Classes, man coupon or call (216) 397-4318 
John Carroll University 
Director ofSummer Sessions• University Heights, Ohio 44118 
1 
I 

I Nrune --------------------------------------­
1 I Add~ -------------------------------------­I 
I I

City______________State_____Zip 
L------------------------------J 

-------~-----------------­
.r------------------------­
The Observer Friday, April 18, 1986 -page 13 
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE DISTINGUISHED SCHOLAR LECTURE SERIES 
Presents PROFESSOR ANTHONY M. TROZZOLO Huisking Professor of Chemistry 

·~ 
\}A 
We want to know the DIRT! 

Any complaints, gripes, problems with anything on the SMC campus, call us for SMC Student Government's 
GRIPE NIGHT on Sunday, April 20 7-10 p.m. 

Numbers to call: 
284­·2050 -2062 -2051 -2063 -2052 .-2061 
Cava.Jmt«Jh HalL Productions 
presents 

~til~nit an~ ®1~ lac~ 
April 17, 18 .. 19 8:00pm Memorial Ubrary Auditorium 


Service 
r,~~~~-CHBvs.l 
~ICE CREAM~ 
If;
-1\ 
~ THE SECOND ANNUAL CHRIS' ICE CREAM ~~ ~~~;<.EATING CONTEST~ IJ ~ Starts Wednesday, April 23 
~ Be prepared to participate in 
'1:) 
Notre Dame's Newest Tradition 
Men's tennis team ups mark to 19-8 in tuneup meets for MCC tourney 
By RICK RIE1'BROCK 
Sports Writer 
Mother Nature could have had better timing in the eyes of the Notre Dame men's tennis team. It had to battle less-than-ideal condi­tions as well as its opponents in a busy string of action that saw the Irish play five matches in as many days in preparation for the Midwes­tern Collegiate Conference Cham­pionships this weekend. 
This will be the last season Notre Dame will compete in the confer­ence as a result ofan athletic depart­ment decision to pull out of the league. Irish head coach Tom Fallon said he believes his team has the chance to go out in style. 
"This is our last chance to win the title, and we're looking to do it," Fal­lon says. "Our toughest match should come from Oral Roberts and I think Evansville will also be a good squad. 
"Either Oral Roberts will be the top seed or It will be us, since we beat them in a close 5-4 match ear­lier this season. This past string was a good warmup for us heading into the tournament." 
Overall, the Irish went 3-2 against the opposition, but only 2-3 against the elements, as three matches were forced indoors. 

In the first match, Notre Dame defeated Indiana State 7-2 in a mis­match. Fallon pointed out that the Irish were just "much too strong" for the Sycamores. But the tables were turned on Notre Dame Sunday when Ohio State proved too much for the Irish and took a 7-2 win. 
The honeymoon was over, as far as the weather was concerned, as soon as the weekend was over. Against Michigan, only two singles matches were played and it was just as well because the Irish were thrashed by an "overpowering" Mic­higan team, 5-0 as the action was moved into the ACC. 
Northwestern was the next visitor to the miserable playing conditions and the Irish handed the Wildcats a 5-1 defeat, as three singles matches had to be scratched. 
Marquette provided the opposi­tion Wednesday, although not much of it, and the Irish waltzed to a 9-0 victory. The Irish now stand at 19-8 on the season and have some things to achieve after the successful homestand, according to their coach. 

Abiogenesis Dance Collective 
Auditions for 86-87 Sat., Ap.ril19 at 10:00 in Regina Hall Studio (SMC). All techniques and styles No experience necessary. Please come dressed to dance. For information call 284-5505. 
"The weather was against us, but we really played well," he said. "I think it would be a· real accomplish­ment to get 20 wins with four fresh­men in our lineup." 
Those freshmen have some impressive totals going Into this weekend's tournament. Tim Carr is now 17-5, Tony Cahill stands at 14­3, Brian Kalbas comes in at 13-7 and Dave Reiter has a 13-10 mark. 
Fallon appreciates the work ofhis freshmen, but he has special praise for his number-one singles player, Dan Walsh. 
"Dan does a fantastic job con­sidering he faces the top gun from the other team every time he goes out there," Fallon points out. "He has played very hard and very well all year. He makes it so much easier for the rest ofthe guys by getting the other teams' top guys out of the way." 
Fallon and the young squad will be looking for another tough perfor­mance by Walsh to lead them against this weekend's opponents, which may or may not include the weather. 
Banks 
continuedfrompage 16 
to give the secondary a chance. We have a good secondary, but If we don't help out, teams like Purdue and Miami are going to do the same things to us." 
Joining Banks along the front line will be junior Wally Kleine, the only player with starting experience on the line next year. Kleine has been a handful in spring practices, and ifhe is able to stay healthy throughout the entire season next year, he has the potential to become one of the top players in the country. 
Sophomore Jeff Kunz looks to have the nose tackle position for the Irish. He is battling with freshman Marty Uppincott for the starting as­signment. Sophomore Matt Dingens backs up Kleine on the end, and freshman Tom Gorman, another transplanted outside linebacker, should see some playing time next year behind Banks. 
Freshmen Steve Roddy and Mark Nigro, also former linebackers, have been moved up to play behind Up­pincott and Kunz. 
Yonto said that team speed is being emphasized heavily in the 
.-----HELP WANTED---­olsMAs house Is seeking a man and wife to be the live-In managers/directors of the DISMAS House near downtown South Bend. (A grad student and Interested spouse or a mature couple are possibilities.) 
Room, board, and stipend to be negotJ.ated. Occalslonal use of a car also Included. 
The home will house 9 or 10 college students and 9 or 10former prisoners. 
Need strong couple, able to create 
community, who have management and 
motivational skills. 

Need experience In personnel management 
and ability to handle all the tasks associated 
with a large household. A newly decorated 
self-contained apartment Is prov1ded In the 
home for the couple. 

Contact Jim Roemer of the DISMAS Board at 239-6614 for Interview. 
spring sessions in hopes of getting a better pass rush. "Everybody's really been working hard," says Yonto. "We've been working on reaction time, and three phases -to meet the blockers, stymie them, and get away. We've been having most of our problems in releasing." 
Injuries to junior Mike Griffin and Steve Bynum look to be serious enough to keep the pair out until the fall, compounding the serious depth problem. But as Yonto says,"once we get them back, along with the In­coming freshmen, they'll be two big plusses." 
The Irish defense has primarily shown the 3-4 defense in the spring drills, but with the position changes on the squad different defensive looks are being sacrificed In order to stress fundamentals. "We've been playing the base defense so far," says Yonto. "Basically It's a five-man front, a 5-2-4. We'll get a lot of help on the pass rush from the outside linebackers." 
"The attitude this spring has be~n excellent," Yonto replies when asked about his experienced view of this spring's proceedings. "It's one of the best I've seen while I've been here. You couldn't ask for anything better." 
Solid-State Photochromism: The Ylide and its Odyssey 
APRIL 21st 8:00PM 

MEMORIAL LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
The Observer Friday, April 18, 1986-page 14 
Women's Bookstore Tournament starts today 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
Key matchups of We Weren't Cheerleaders in High School versus 5-3 And Under; Negligence against Stupid Human Tricks; and 4 Geeks and a Feminist versus The Almosts promise to make today's opening round ofwomen's bookstore basket­ball interesting if not completely competitive. 
Sixty teams start the single­elimination tournament at 4 p.m. on the Stepan and Saint Mary's courts. Four more teams have been granted first-round byes. Top-seeded Shoot­ing Back, led by former Irish basket­ball standout Teena Keys, will play the winner of the potentially­dangerous contest between We Weren't Cheerleaders and 5-3 And Under. Revenge of the Quixotic Quint, the second seed, will start play tomorrow against the Daiquiri Dolls, while third-seeded Violent Femmes II awaits the winner of the Flamingos-Sandy, Baby and the Supremes pairing. Fourth-seeded The Almosts will look to dominate 4 Geeks and a Feminist in their first­round game at 6 p.m. 
Other non-seeded teams who should do well have on their rosters a large sprinkling of former bookstore competitors, interhall basketball veterans and varsity ath­letes. Double Decker Oreo Cookie has volleyball players Rochelle Holder and Zanette Bennett and the core of Breen-Phillips' runner-up in­terhall team in lisa Brown, Ann Curoe, and Carolyn Burke. 
The Fighting Chicken Patties con­sist ofthis year's interhall champion­ship team from Lewis. The backcourt combination of Ellen Mouch and Katie Cavanaugh hopes to lead the Patties past a psyched-up Have No Pride, Suffer No Embarrass­ment team. 
Sunday afternoon the second round will begin at 1 p.m. on the Saint Mary's courts and courts 11 and 12 at Lyons. 
MacLellan's 2nd goal lifts Rangers past CapsinOT 
LANDOVER, Md. -Brian MacLellan 
scored his second goal of the night, 
on a breakaway at 1:16 of overtime, 
to give the New York Rangers a 4-3 
victory last night over the Was­
hington Capitals in the opening 
game of their best-of-seven Patrick 
Division finals in the NHL playoffs. 
The Rangers, who overcame a 3-1 
deficit, were winless in their last 21 
overtime games-playoffand regular 
season -while the Capitals had 
played 25 extra-period games wit­
hout a loss since last losing in the 
playoffs on April 13, 1984. 
The Rangers, who upset division 
champion Philadelphia in the first 
round, sent the game into overtime 
~nJ::s by Mark Osborne and Mike 
Osborne ignited the comeback 
with a shorthanded goal at 17:33 of 
the second period. Ridley, a rookie, 
scored on a backhanded shot during 
a scramble in front of goaltender 
Pete Peeters at 9:37 of the third 
period. It was Ridley's fourth goal of 
the playoffs. 
Game 2 will be played in the Capi­
tal Centre Saturday night. 

ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now.
CLUB REGISTRATION locations are chosen by lottery. 
A~l clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
Forms are now available for: 
l. Registration 
2. 
Funding 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 


Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS .APRIL 18, 1986 
~THE ND-SMC3 
tPRE-LAW SOCIETYj 
and 

.::,'<'d the corner club 
O present a night of 
._ LEGAL ENTERTAINMENT 
ca 



----------~---------------· ~-­
--~--~-----------~--~------~---------------------------~~----~--------------------~----­
The Observer Friday, April 18, 1986-page 15 
Bloom County 
Zeto 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
FWRame 

twe CllN OVlY 
wr... ff?fXJII!JlY 

IMI1&1Nt 1He MON5Tl?O<JS 
7lJf(# 7lJ 

HORf«JR Of11 5A~
Pteces,.. 

fltmCk IJY... /JY... 
~ 
Kevin Walsh 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Israel's Abba 5 Hungarian hero 
10 Mast 14 Miss Barrett 15 "Old MacDonald 
had a farm, -" 16 Ice cream unit 17 Wagner work 20 Sash lor 
Cio-cio-san 21 Van der Rohe 22 Turk. inn 23 Saloon 24 Cut 25 Coiled 
ornament 29 Defeat 30 Possibilities 33 Greeted the 
dawn 34 Bates 35 Med. subj. 36 Puccini work 39 Declare to 
be true 40 Coloratura 1986 Tnbune Med1a Serv1ces. Inc.Lily Thursday's Solution
All R1ghts Reserved

41 Snare 42 Vintage car 8 Purpose 43 Roasting stick 9 Ruling 44 Madrid mothers 10 Ort 45 Highlander 11 Teem 46-Spade 12 "-of the 47 Russ. vehicle Thousand 50 Oriental prefix Days" 51 Ninny 13 Army gp. 54 Work by 18 Symbol 
Humperdinck 19 Ooze 57 "-a Kick Out 24 Memberships of You" 25 Philippine 58 Roman island 
magistrate 26 Desire avidly 59 Zhivago's love 27 Copland ballet 60 Stack role 28 Glacial ridges 61 Loving one 29 Abrupt 62 Tie feature 30 Awaiting 
31 Test answer 

DOWN 32 Eye afflic-43 Purpose 50 Fit of pique 1 Thus tions: var. 44 Creche setting 51 Kenton or 2 Simpleton 34 Seething 45 Meanings Getz 3 Against 35 "A creed is-" 46 Creep 52 Flying prefix 4 King Cole (Swinburne) 47 Rare 53 Small piece 5 Rabbit ears 37 Was interest­48 Storm of ground 6 Fare ing 49 Change for 55 Hullabaloo 7 Side dish 38 Charm a five 56 Wapiti 

Friday,April 18th, Saturday,April 19th 7:00. 9:15.11 :30pm 


Campus 
FRIDAY, APRIL 18 

•NOON-concert, New Age Mothers and the American Dream, Fieldhouse Mall, Sponsored 
by Club ltalia, free  
•NOON  -cannoli  sale,  Fieldhouse  Mall,  
Sponsored by Club ltalia,  
•6:30  P.M.  -meeting,  Library  Lounge,  

Sponsored by Christian Fellowship, 

•7 P.M., 9:I5 P.M., II:30-movie, "Razor's 
Edge", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored Student Activities Board, SI.50 
•8 
P.M. -dining-in, Vice Admiral Nils Thun­man, speaker, South Dining Hall, Sponsored by Navy ROTC, 

•8 
P.M. -play, "Arsenic and Old Lace", Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Productions, donations to Andy Sowder Fund 

•8 
P.M., I0:30 P.M.-movie, "White Nights", 


Caroll Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Government, S I. 50 
Summer 
STORAGE 
RESERVATION CALL NOW 
683-1959 
•VERY 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS •APPROX 2112 MILES NORTHUS31-33 

•GATES 
OPEN ALL DAY SUNDAY 


Master Mini Warehouses 
P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"BEST UTILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" _.. 

SATURDAY, APRIL 19 
•7 
P.M., 9:I5 P.M., II:30 P.M., -movie, "Razor's Edge", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by the Student Activities Board, SI.50 

•8 
P.M. -play, "Arsenic and Old Lace", Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Cavanaugh Productions, donations to Andy Sowder Fund 

•8 
P.M., 10:30 P.M.· movie, "White Nights", Carroll Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by the Saint Mary's Student Government, SI.';() 


SUNDAY, APRIL 20 
•4 P.M. • concert, Notre Dame Chamber Or­
chestra, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Music, free 

"Dang, that gives me the creeps . ... I wish she'd hurry up and scoop that guy out." 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
----~~---~-~~~--~­
-~-~~~------~-­
S~orts 

Several intense games are highlight as Bookstore completes 2nd round 

By MIKE CARDINALE 
Sports Writer 
Stamina and intensity are the most salient terms to describe yesterday's Bookstore Basketball action, as two of the games exhibited the most determined and serious play thus far. 
Bookstore Basketball XV 
The game between Kitty and the Pussycats and The Foursome saw an incredible comeback fall just shon. The Foursome had their backs to the wall, trailing 20-14, but they rallied to send the game into overtime at 20-20. 
As the game wore on, Kitty and the Pussycats managed to overcome their fatigue to stay with The Foursome, and eventually pulled out a 26-24 victory. For the Pussycats, Steve Alaniz shot 9-of-20 from the field, while teammate Bob Manning made 8-of-11 attempts, including his last five down the stretch. 
"We were really tired," com­mented Manning. "They had a really quick defense that caused a lot of turnovers. We had plenty ofshots to win, but they converted their tur­novers to get back in it. 
"Finally we settled back down and pulled it out. We were lucky to get by, but we can't wait to get to the next game." 

Ed Kirchmier made 7-of-12 buck­ets and Jim Flynn scored six points and pulled down 10 rebounds for the hard-luck losers. 
Intense best describes the action between Simple Chronic Halitosis and Hey Baby, Wanna Get Trashed? Heated tempers and shoving matches dominated the early action, in what barely resembled a basket­ball game. 
"People were grabbing each ot­her's faces," said Ann Bianco, one of the many alarmed observers at the game. "It was like a football game. But they (Wanna Get Trashed) definitely had more talent and quickness. Plus, they had good audience participation." 
Wanna Get Trashed did seem to be more talented, as they went on to win 21-16 behind Kevin Daly's 8-of­14 effon. John Livingstonadded four points and Mark Foley chipped in three for the winners. Foley felt his team's persistance was the key to victory. 
"Everything broke loose in the beginning. It was really intense," he said. "But we settled down and stuck with our game plan. We were a much smaller team, but we hit the boards well." 
In action amongst the seeded teams, Let's Go Crazy downed Gaybashers, 21-10, with a balanced scoring effort. Chris Perozek scored six points and Brian Koehr added five for the winners. 
None of the other three seeded teams playing yesterday surren­dered more than five points. Shysters shot 21-of-40 as a team to beat Sink The Pink, 21-5. Andy Dunne led the team with six baskets on ten attempts from the field. 
Kevin Laracey shot 8-of-12 and Dan Dressel 7-of-8 to power WBBS with Ed Smerciak past Phantom Shit­ters of Flanner, 21-5. Also, Jim Welsh's 6-of-8 performance helped Tofu Chaka Khan trounce The Men's Club Plus One, 21-5. 
In other action, the Z-Men-The Unpublicized Ones utilized crisp passing and a devastating fast break to beat Biggest Molds on Campus 21-8, in a successful effort to gain the publicity they feel they deserve. 
Gus Herbert shot 7-of-8 from the field, while teammates Shawn O'Grady and Brian Steber added four baskets apiece for the winners. Tim Baker was the dominating Z­Man under the boards, pulling down 
10 rebounds. Pat Schmiedeler was unintimidated by the Z-Men, scoring six of his team's eight points in a losing effort. 
Jay Vosburgh dominated the ac­tion underneath the basket in the game between S. Gibbs For UMOC and Gerry, Ferdinand, Baby Doc and Two Other Guys Not Welcome Anywhere Else. Vosburgh's 12 points and 13 rebounds made the 
see BOOKSTORE, page 11 


Friday, April 18, 1986-page 16 
Th~ Obef:rvcr/Drrw Sandlrr 

The second round ofBookstore Tournament was completedyes­terday, and players found the weather to be a little more cooperative. In one ofyesterday's contests FAQ Again (dark shirts) advanced to the third round with a 21-14 win over 5 Sbootin' Swedes (light). Mike Cardinale bas details on yesterday's action at left. 
Weekend Sports 

Lacrosse 

Saturday-home vs. Denison, 1:30 
Track 

at Indiana Intercollegiate Meet 
Men's Tennis 
at MCC Championships 
Women's Tennis 
Saturday -at Ohio State Sunday-at Miami (Ohio) 
Golf 

Thursday-Sunday -at Kepler Invitational 
Baseball 

Saturday-home vs. Detroit (2), 12 Sunday-home vs. Detroit ( 2 ), 12 

SMCSports 
Tennis Saturday -vs. DePauw, Centre College (at DePauw) Softball Saturday -home vs. Anderson Sunday -home vs. Franklin 
Track District Meet at Earlham College 
But group must overcome key losses 
Addition of Banks will help on line 
By TERRY LYNCH Sports Writer  
Lack of experience defensive line. Irish football fans  on should  the be  

seeing a lot of this comment on the previews for the 1986 season, but if 

Spring Football ·s6 
Lou Holtz and his staff have their way, the Irish might surprise a lot of people this fall. 
Once Holtz put his staff together, one ofhis top priorities was to shore up a defensive line that was heavily criticized last season for a lack of speed and an ineffective pass rush, to say nothing about the lack of depth on the line. 
With all of those factors in mind, the Irish staff made the decision to· move Roben Banks from his outside linebacker position to defensive tackle, a switch that will be crucial to Irish defensive hopes in '86. 
"I really didn't anticipate the change," says Banks, a 6-2, 240­pound junior from Hampton, Va. "But I'm willing to do anything to help the team get a winningseason." 
Banks' team attitude has not gone unnoticed by defensivve line coach Joe Yonto. "Robert has made a great effort all spring," says the ex­perienced Irish assistant coach. "He moved unselfishly from outside linebacker up to the line, and has really worked hard." 
In the linebacking spot last year, Banks collected 50 tackles, slightly below his total of 68 in his sop­homore year. He also was lumped together with his Irish defensive teammates last year for his lack of speed at the outside linebacking 

posltwn. However, as spring "Rather than suung around 
practice wears on, Banks finds him­waiting for the play to come to me, I 
self enjoying his new position more get to go in there and mess things 
and more. up." 
"I feel I'm starting to get to the Banks has also been pleased with 
quarterback better now," says Banks the overall effort during the spring. 
of his spring efforts. "I'm having a "The line's come a long way in the 
good time up there, and I like the ag­past few weeks," he says. "If we can 
gresiveness that's going on. I'm whip people up front, we'll be able 
making a lot more plays and I can see BANKS, page 13play with a more reckless style. 
Win over W. Michigan boosts women to 13-3 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Spars Writer 

The Notre Dame women's tennis team upped its season mark to 13-3 with a win over Western Michigan on Tuesday at Kalamazoo, Mich. The Irish came out on top 5-4 with the doubles teams once again coming through in tight situations. 
"I knew it was going to be tight either way," said first year coach Michele Gelfman. "They had the homecoun advantage and we were playing on only three indoor courts, which meant we spent a lot of time waiting for a court to be free. 
"It could have broke our momen­tum, but I was very proud of how our girls stayed in there. Especially the doubles team of (Michelle) Dasso and (Izzy) O'Brien. We were down 4-3 with their match yet to be played. And despite the fact that they had to stand around and wait, the played outstand-ing." 
Notre Dame picked up victories in the third, fourth and sixth singles. Sophomore Dasso, playing in the number-three doubles, outlasted her opponent 4-6, 6-4, 6-1 to take her to 10-3 on the season. Meanwhile, number-four singles player, senior O'Brien downed her challenger 6-3. 6-2. The other singles win came from the number­six player, junior Tammy Schmidt, who chalked up a 6-2, 4-6, 6-0 vic­tory. 
The number-one and number-two doubles teams proved to be the rock of consistency Gelfman has come to rely on with hard fought matches resulting in key wins. The first duo of senior Susie Panther and Dasso took their oppents to three sets before downing them 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. The number-two tandem of senior Mary Colligan and O'Brien had perhaps the toughest match of the day, but pulled themselves together to come out on top 7-6 (8-6), 2-6, 6-4. Their record is now 13·1. 
"We played together, as a team," noted Gelfman. "I think that was the key. These next matches are going to be just as tough, but if we main­tain the agressive play and momen­tum we established during our last homestand then I think we'll meet with some positive results." 
The Irish take to the road this weekend to face Ohio State (April 
19) and Miami ofOhio (April20). In action last spring, the squad defeated the Buckeyes but dropped their match to the Redskins. 




