
---~-------­
~---------­
---·--­
-
---..,..---­
Growing up Catholic -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 22 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1986 
. . 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Prosecutors offer 'real world view' 


to underaged student partygoers 
Barnes said pre-trial diversion a minor, has had any alcohol.
By BUD LUEPKE Copy f:ditor is a contract between a violator Yes, students can refuse it, but and city governmentwhereby the police will probably arrest Prosecutors offered students accused consents to a probation anyway, Barnes said. their own view of "the real world" period of six months to a year, Arguing with pollee wiii not 
in student partygoers' latest con­pays a fee of less than $50 and help matters either, said Barnes. frontation with the law last night does 10 to 60 hours of commu­"If you give (pollee) a speech on in Nieuwland Science Hall. nity service. This completed, the constitutional law, you only up 
''I'm talking to you about the conviction will be erased from the ante on going to the can," real world," said St. Joseph the criminal record. said Barnes. "The more dialogue County Prosecuting Attorney Mi­'This way, you have with pollee, the more 
. chael Barnes. "If you are under the student you hike the probability for an 2 1 and drinking, you are in viola­gets no record and we get service arrest. That'sjust the way the real tion of the law," said Barnes. and we get the fine," Barnes said. world works," he said. 
He said that this law applies Director of the Pre-trial Diver­Entering a house Is deter­whether one is having a glass of sion Program Linda Scopelitis, mined by probable cause of a wine with one's parents, or drink­also present at the meeting, es­crime being committed, said ing at a house-party or in one's timated that 35 to 40 Notre Dame Barnes. "Ultimately, It comes 
dorm room. " Notre Dame students have opted for pre-trial down to the pollee officer's dis-is not a sanctuary" from Indiana diversion this year. She said cretion," he said. · statutes. he said. those students who have already Barnes said dogs were used by 
Barnes did not have encourag­paid their fines are not eligible police "as a precaution and a ing words for underage drinkers. for the program. "If they pay the show of force." "If you're a 19 or 20-year-old sit­ticket, they've got the record," Barnes, who Is a 197.3 
ting with a beer in your hand, she said. graduate of the Notre Dame Law you're a dead pigeon," he said, But students questioned the School, tried to give perspective and this means one wiii be cited methods police used in issuing to the student drinking menace. 
those citations. For instance, the "Since I've been here, this has
for violating the law. Citations may be followed up breathylyzer... No, the alco­been a continuing problem with 
by one of three possible alterna­sensor. Barnes distingished be­Notre Dame students and area tives, said Barnes. Students may tween the two. He said the breat­residents," he said. He said stu­hylyzer indicates the level of dents should see themselves as
plead guilty, pay the fine and ac­intoxication and is used in traffic members of the South Bend
cept the conviction on their record, or they may plead not violations. He said the alco­community. "I don't think being 
guilty and contest the conviction sensor has not proven reliable In a Notre Dame student carries any in court. First-time offenders detecting levels of alcohol con­special privileges . . . nor do I sumption but could be used to
have a third option called pretrial 
see PARTIES, page 4 
detect whether a person, such asdiversion. 
Hesburgh : Learn from presence of foreign students 
By MARK DICKINSON can learn from students at Notre· use of the opportunity" to go face Is to become provincial, to because of the German Seniqr Sto.{f Reporter Dame. overseas. become Ingrown as though the blitzkrieg, but he said the .3 years Hesburgh addressed Interna­Last night's talk In the world began and ended wherever had a "profound effect" on his 
University President Father tional students by saying "I hope Memorial Library auditorium was the university happens to be ... life. Hesburgh said "It came Theodore Hesburgh told stu­you don't just come here to ab­the first In a series of "Around In this case South Bend, Indiana home to me that the world was dents to "learn from the pres­sorb America. I hope somehow the World" lectures given by the much laraer than Svracuse, New ence of international students in you pass out to Americans some International Student Organiza­Hesburgh attributes the begin­York or South Bend, Indiana." our midst" at the International sense of your nation, your tion to promote communication ning of his views about Interna­
Hesburgh estimates there are
Student Organization meeting people, your culture, and your between different nationalities tional students to hisjunior year last night. language." and to expose people to new in college when he was sent by approximately 450 foreign stu­Hesburgh said Notre Dame He went on to encourage Notre Ideas. Notre Dame to Rome to earn doc­dents from 68 different countries at Notre Dame, but he says he
students can benefit from inter­Dame students to go abroad on Hesburgh thanked the ISO for torates In philosophy and theol­national students by experienc­one of the foreign studies pro­their series which he called "long ogy. He found himselfa minority would like to see this number Ing new languages, new grams and to keep speaking the overdue and badly needed at this and had to learn Italian, Latin, doubled. He admits there aren't cultures, and by gaining a languages they had learned after University." He said, "One of French, and later German. more foreign students because broader sense of the world. He returning. Hesburgh said It was the worst dangers this University After three years ofstudy, Hes­of the great expense of coming also said international students "a shame so few people make and most American universities burgh had to leave Rome In 1940 to school in America. 

Delivery of materials, not weather prolongs LaFortune renovations 
By ERICH STRAUB  has been delivery of material."  barbershop,  florist,  travel  
News Staff  Dedrick cited the Huddle as an  agency,  and  record  store,  
example. "The Huddle Is essen­ already opened.  
Despite delay In the delivery of some materials, renovation of Lafortune Student Center is on schedule for completion In late October, said Don Dedrick. director of the physical plant. Originally scheduled to be completed before the beginning  tially complete, but we've had to wait on delivery ofkitchen equip­ment. It should be here by the end of this week. but It will be a good five or six weeks after that before we're through." Completion of the ballroom, said Dedrick. had been delayed for similar reasons. "The Inside  Dedrick stated that he hoped to have construction finished as soon as possible. "I appreciate everyone's (the students) pa­tience with the delays. I believe everyone will be pleased and en­joy it (Lafortune) when It's com­plete." Dedrick added that much of  
Associated PressPRIVATE EYES USX steel worker Roger Chanbler watches the activities in­side the plant with his binoculars Tuesday afternoon in Lorain, Ohio. USX steel workers have been ofT the job since the beginning of August because of a labor dispute.  of the semester, the renovation, Dedrick explained, was slowed because of bad weather and delays in the delivery ofmaterial. Dedrick said, however, that recent weather had been much more favorable. "The weather has been no problem. Our biggest problem  of the ballroom has been ready for several months, but we've had to walt on delivery of stone for the stairs. It's just been a struggle to get material delivered on time." Presently, most of the con­struction is taking place In the basement area, with the lounge,  the building has been completed already and turned over to the students for occupancy. "The second and third noors are essentially complete, and everyone has moved In as far as I know." see LAFORTUNE, page 4  
~------­ 






The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 2 

The Observer has reached an agreement with Anheuser­Busch, Inc. of Saint Louis, Mo., to provide color photographs in The Observer once each week. The agreement was an­nounced yesterday, and the first color photograph under this agreement is scheduled to run tomorrow. Altogether, the agreement calls for Anheuser-Busch to sponsor 23 photographs throughout the remaining academic year. With­out this sponsorship, the costs of running color photographs would be prohibitive, according to Editor-in-ChiefJoe Murphy. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The ND'SMC Council for the Retarded Invites all Interested volunteers to attend their monthly dance at Logan Center tomorrow night from 7:30 to 10. Interested students will be picked up tomorrow at 7:00p.m. In front of Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. · The Observer 
A mandatory orientation for those students who signed up to volunteer at St. Joseph's Medical Center will be held tonight at 7. Those who do not attend will no longer be Included in the program. Those who are driving to the hospital's emer­gency exit are encouraged to first meet at the Main Circle at 6:45p.m. to help with transportation. Ifyou want to volunteer but are unable to attend, contact James Stanislaw at 283­2140. -The Observer 
"Technological Frontiers and Human Integrity" will be the focus of a talk by Professor Langdon Winner, of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, tonight at 7:30. This segment of the Impact of Science and Technology on Science series will be held In the Memorial Library auditorium. -The Observer 
Foreign study programs will be the topic of tonight's campus Perspectives, WVFI-AM 640's weekly talkshow. From 10 to 11, Host Lynne Strand will Interview Amy Wright. who recently returned from Angers, France; Ell Coats, from In· nsbruck. Austria; Clarice Keizer, from cairo, Egypt; and Donald Pilger, from Mexico City, Mexico. Listeners with ques· tions may call 239-6400. · The Observer 
"Impressions of Argentina: Visit with the mothers of the Plaza de Mayo" will be discussed tomorrow at 12:30 p.m. by Professor Jean Elshtain of University of Massachusetts at Am­herst. The Kellogg Institute Is sponsoring the talk which will be held In 131 Declo. -The Observer 
A workshop for MBAs will be sponsored by the Career and Placement Services office In the lower level of the Memorial Library tomorrow at 2 p.m. ·The Observer 
The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life Group Is hosting the First Annual Respect Life Mass and Dinner on Saturday. The mass will be held at 5 p.m. In Sacred Heart Church. Bishop John D'Arcy will be the chief celebrant and homlllst. with Father Theodore Hesburgh concelebrating. The dinner will follow at 6:30 p.m. In Stephan Center. Douglas Kmiec, a Notre Dame professor of law, will speak on "Respect for 
Life and Respect for the Law; Are They the Same?'' Now on leave, Kmiec Is serving as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the U.S. Justice Department. • The Observer 

Weather 
Orin and bare itl The high will be in the lower to mid 80s today with partly sunny skies, high humidity, and a 30% chance of showers and thunderstorms. 

_~~Ihe_~Dbserver 
Design Editor .......... Rob Luxem Sports Copy Editor ..•. Marty Strasen Design Assistant .....•..• Bob White Accent Copy Editor . Caroline Gillespie Types~tt~rs ...•..•.... Kevin Becker Accent Layout •..•... Mary Reynolds N~ws Editor ......•. Ann Kaltenbach Typists ............... Colleen Foy Copy Editor •••.•....... Chris Julka ND Day Editor • ..••..•.• Bill Herzog Photograp~r .......... Joe Vitacco 
nw ObwrYcr ( l ..~ 'i~.! tCHHII "f'\lhll'hnl \lclllu~\ thruulth l·n<l;n t'lU t•pt <lurm.,: t'X;;tm ilnll \lllallon JX'ru>t.l• lbc ObK~r" put>la..hnl h' tht· •lllllt·nt"''''ll' I mH·r••t' ul :\titre l>amt> anu ~in I ~;&r)··, ( .UIIC'Jlt' 
11M Obecrvcr ~... a mcmhrr "' nw A.<IIIOCiak'd Pn~. All rq>rc >t.luliiUil fl"'ll' .If(' ror...,·rtl 



College hoops is all hoopla 
"College athletics are a farce." 
1 was sort ofshocked when I heard these words. These words came from, of all people, a TV cameraman covering one of Notre Dame's men's home basketball games last year. 
He and I were eating hotdogs In the pressroom. The cameraman was taking a break from shooting highlights for a local TV station. I was taking a break from my volunteer job as a statistician for the basketball team. 
"All this is made possible by a bunch of teenagers running around playing a game," the cameraman said ofthe event that was taking place In the arena. The cheering, the crowds, the band, the excitement. All the hoopla. The entire event was meaningless, he said. It was all contrived. 
This event seemed to me to be his livelihood. Because someone had contrived this event. he had a job. 
Yet he said he hated being there. It was all too shallow. 
He would still have a job if there were no "big­time" college basketball, he said. There were plenty of real events involving real people out there that he would rather be covering. All he did here was film a few seconds of a fast break here, a glimpse of an ecstatic crowd there. 
Every week. major crimes are committed, premature babies are saved by medical miracles, and happy families celebrate their good fortunes. These are real concerns and real celebrations, he said. This is real news; these things are important. 
But at that moment, there were thousands of people around the corner from us in the arena sinking In unison into the depths of despair and then soaring to the heights of celebration all be­cause a bunch of teenagers were playing a game. 
One wonders how the first varsity basketball coach at Notre Dame recruited his players. Per­haps he put up a sign in the dining hall and then stood on a soapbox saying, "I know you all came to this tine school because you are bright and you want to get an education. But maybe five of you would like to have a little fun in your spare time." 
Consider today's recruiting. We don't look for 4.0s and see if any of them happen to be able to shoot hoops, too. We gun for the best basketball talent In the land and then pray they somehow manage to meet the standards of Proposition 48. 
Basketball Is the number one priority in our players' lives. If we hear that a player has failed a test. our first fear Is not that he may be struggling 
with  his  education.  Our  first  fear  Is  for  his  
eligibility.  
Traditionally,  each  Notre  Dame  basketball  

season starts out slowly as the Irish play lesser­known and local teams: easy teams. The players study hard In the fall -their second semester eligibility depends on it. Then, after finals are over, the players' heads belong to the coach. 
When the TV cameraman spokeofall this hoopla being for some teenagers playing a game, he didn't say that they necessarily have any fun. 
Students, alumni, and other fans place in­credible pressure on the coaches to produce a winning team. And the coaches place Incredible pressure on the players. With so many drills to run, situations to cover, and films to watch, there Is little time for fun and games. 
Jim Riley 
Copy Editor 



Even student managers, who for the most part are volunteers, quickly discover that the pizzazz of the big-time basketball stage show disappears when they go backstage. Locker rooms and closed practices are no bowl of cherries for anybody in­volved in high-pressure, big-business, big-time basketball. In the big time, there's no room for fun and games. 
I had started eating my hotdog at halftime--the hotdogs are free in the pressroom since the press is a key part of the hoopla machine--and I realized by the Intermittent roar of the crowd that the second half had been going on for some time. But I wasn't all that eager to get back to the ex­citement 
Suddenly, the cameraman said, 'Tm here be­cause my boss sent me. Why are you here?" 
Well, I said, I had started working for the team because I thought it would be fun. That didn't really turn out to be true. But I hung around anyway. The more I saw of the team and the more I thought about college athletics, the more disil­lusioned I had become. But I hung around anyway. 
"But, really, why did you hang around?" he asked as the crowd roared again in the back­ground.· 
For the same reason the crowd comes out every week. Not to see some teenagers run around and play a game. But for a little of the glory, and for all of the hoopla. 
Focus 
on Anlerica's Future 

Help Prevent Birth Defects 
""Support the 
~ ~!9DK9.tJ2~U'J!! 



Distributor For 


lttountaiu ~ttan Nut ~ fruit Co. 


Will be opening a store in the newly remodeled LaFortune Student Center. We are now accepting applications tor the following positions: J 

Store Manager 2 Part-Time In Store Sales People Assistant Store Manager 4 Outside Sales People -will work around class schedules­
# 

¢ Applications are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office. 
~--­

r------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 3 
American, Frenchman kidnapped; Arabic statement labels them spys 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -A group The Revolutionary Justice Or-calling Itself the Revolutionary ganization previously has Justice Organization claimed re-claimed responsibility for the ab­sponslbility yesterday for the duction of four French television kidnapping of American accoun-crewmen last March 8, tWo of tant Joseph Ciclppio. It also said whom were released June 20. It was holding a Frenchman The group Is believed to be com-whose abduction had not been posed of pro-Iranian Shiite Mas-reported previously. lems. 
The claim was made In a state-Clclpplo, 56, originally from ment delivered to the lndepen-Norristown, Pa., was kidnapped dent Beirut newspaper An-Nahar Sept. 12 by four gunmen on the shortly before dawn. campus of the American Unlver-
The handwritten Arabic state-slty of Beirut, where he was the ment, accompanied by pictures acting comptroller. of the two men In captivity, The Revolutionary Justice Or-claimed that Clcipplo was a U.S. ganlzatlon said It kidnapped spy and that the Frenchman, Coudry In Christian east Beirut. Identified as Marcel Coudry, Itdid not say when or give further worked for the French secret ser-details. vice counterterrorism depart-In Paris, a French Foreign Min­ment. istry official disclosed that a 
It accused the United States, French citizen named Marcel France and Israel of "preparing Khodari, who had been living in for an aggression against our op-Beirut, disappeared In February. pressed people under the pretext The official, speaking on con-of terrorism," and said both men ditlon of anonymity, would not would be put on trial. say whether Khodari might be 
The statement. which was the Coudry mentioned In the translated by The Associated statement. 'f'ress, also accused the French A French Embassy official in government of reneging on un-Beirut said he had no record of specified pledges allegedly a Frenchman named Marcel made in negotiations to resolve Coudry being in Lebanon. previous kidnappings. An An-Nahar editor, speaking 
r-=~.,.,.,,.,,.,,.,.>S,.,"'-s"....,....,*"'~··,··..,..~~.;.s~ 
~ f/Jen«n ~laM 
~ ~ . ~~ 
~ /Y~,/7~25 
~ 
~ 9:00ftwt -~:OOatn
l 
~· 
A~ce 
~ 
~ $ue ~f'u»n 9--1-1 f/~t~ (Jj) .cf. ~d·~~ 
~ ..--v~:ff"ic~ a·~ ~~. 0() andaU' afl04~ al ~ e/ooa. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~3S~~~~3S~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
on condition of anonymity, sata an envelope containing the state­ment and photographs of Cicip­pio and Coudry in captivity was delivered to the newspaper's of­fice In west Beirut. 
Another group, the Arab Revolutionary Cells-Omar Moukhtar Forces, claimed Sept. 14 that it kidnapped Clcippio and American educator Frank Her­bert Reed, whom gunmen seized when they intercepted his car In west Beirut on Sept. 9. 
However, It did not provide photographs of them In captivity to support Its claim. 
Reed, 5.3, of Malden, Mass., Is director of the Lebanese Interna­tional School. Like Ciclpplo, he Is a convert to Islam and is married to an Arab woman. 
A telephone caller Sept. 9 had claimed Islamic Jihad was re­sponsible for Reed's abduction. The pro-Iranian group holds at least three other American and three French hostages. 
But Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy War, issued a statement two days later, disclaiming Reed's kidnapping and saying that It is­sues claims only in written state­ments accompanied by a photo of a hostage. 
The Observer 

is now acceptlhg applications for the following position: 
Maintenance Manager 

• 
Duties Include: maintenance of production equipment 

• 
Salaried Position 


If interested, stop up at The Observer, 3rd Floor, LaFortune Center to fill out an application. Deadline: Wednesday, Oct.1 


Associated Press 

ALL SMILES 
Philippine President Cory Aquino waves to a cheering crowd at the University of California at Berkeley campus, Tuesday morning, as University President David Gardner applauds her arrival. 
French Prime Minister urges end to terrorism 
UNITED NATIONS -Prime Min­ister Jacques Chlrac of France urged the United Nations yester­day to stamp out International terrorism, which has cost his country nine lives In the past two weeks. 
Chirac told the 41st General Assembly that terrorism is the most urgent challenge to the world and requires concrete countermeasures, Including joint action to Improve security In the air and on the sea. 
"The tragic events In Istanbul, Karachi and Paris prove once again that terrorism has become the systematic weapon of a war that knows no borders or seldom 
II

has a face, Chirac told delegates. 
Nine people have been killed and more than 160 injured in five bombings In Paris since Sept. 8. 
Terrorists stormed a synagogue In Istanbul, Turkey, on Sept. 6, killing 21 worshipers. Two gunmen also were killed. Twenty people were killed after hUackers opened fire Inside a Pan Amjetliner in Karachi, Pakis­tan, on Sept. 5. 
Chlrac reminded delegates that among terrorism's victims are the French, American and British hostages held In Lebanon. Word of another French kidnap victim In Lebanon came yesterday, when a group called Revolutionary Justice claimed It had abducted a man the group called a French secret service agent. 
Chlrac, who entered the U.N. building behind a phalanx of American security agents, said terrorism "would take us back to ages we thought were long gone If we allow It a free hand to cor­rupt democracies and destroy the basic rules of International life." 
The French prime minister ad­dressed the third day of the as­sembly's so-called "general debate,II which features a parade of government leaders from among the 159 U.N. member states. 
Other speakers Wednesday in­cluded Mexican President Miguel de Ia Madrid and Chinese Foreign Minister Wu Xuequlan. 
In his speech, Chlrac said countries have "not always shown the necessary lucidity toward this scourge (terrorism) which some would like us to think is the sole means of ex­pression of the oppressed. 
"The odious methods It uses, the slaughter of Innocent people perpetrated In free societies, the ongoing blackmail over the lives of hostages rule out our confus­Ing, even in some small way, those actions with genuine resis­tance," Chirac said. 
He condemned states "willing to close their eyes to terrorist or­ganizations' activities or that do not hesitate to use them to their own advantage and even actually encourage them." 
Correction 
The article about the AIDS conference at Saint Mary's misquoted Ella Harmeyer, as­sistant professor ofnursing at St. Mary's. Her actual state­ment was that not one Saint Mary's nursing student has cared for an AIDS patient be­cause of the risk that students may contract the disease, in which case there may be a va­riety of Insurance concerns. 
In yesterday's front-page story on the Hall Presidents' Council meeting, Information about the meeting with Asso­ciate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick was Incorrect. HPC members will meet with Goldrick next week. 

The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 4 

Federal Judge Harry Claiborne responds to ment trialluesday on Capitol Hill. 
But the researchers say medical questions during a Senate pa.-n_e_l_t_m__pea_c_h_·__R_e_l_a_te_d_s_t_o?'::~~~ge 5_._ _ ____ ---. students and young doctors are 
GUILTY? 
Panel defines eligibility for new AIDS treatment 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A panel of ex­perts yesterday finalized criteria on who will be eligible for an ex­panded trial of the first promis­Ing drug treatment for AIDS, but said the Information would not be made public until government regulators review it. 
Government health officials, academic researchers and repre­sentatives of the pharmaceutical company which makes the drug met at the National Institutes of Health for several days before finalizing test criteria. 
Kathy Bartlett, a spokes­woman for Burroughs Wellcome Co., developer of the drug, said the research proposal would be submitted tomorrow to the Food and Drug Administration. 
"According to the FDA, the review will be completed early the following week," Bartlett said. 
Meanwhile, Otis R. Bowen, sec­
retary of health and human ser­
vices, told restaurant owners 
they should allow employees 
with AIDS to keep working In 
their kitchens. 
A walter or kitchen worker with 
AIDS should only be taken off 
the job, Bowen said, if there is 
"evidence o! other Infection or 
Illness for which any food service 
worker should also be 
restricted." 
Bowen told the National Res­
taurant Association, "All the 
epidemiologic and laboratory 
evidence we have Indicates that 
blood-borne and sexually­
transmitted Infections like AIDS 
are not transmitted during the 
preparation or serving of food or 
beverages." 
"No Instances of this happen­
Ing with AIDS have been docu­
mented," he added. 
After the FDA review of the new 
Burroughs Wellcome drug, the 
company's spokeswoman said, 
criteria for the expanded Inves­
tigational New Drug trial will be 
made public to doctors and 
those Interested In taking part 
through the toll-free telephone 
hotline set up to answer ques­
tions about azidothymidine, or 
AZT. 
The hotllne number Is 1-800­84~-9~88, and It operates everyday between 8 a.m. and midnight (~DT). 
House defeats bill for local revenue sharing 
WASHINGTON House leaders yesterday night moved to kill the General Rev­enue Sharing program with­outa vote, quietly deleting the $~.4 billion for local govern­ments from an omnibus spending bill scheduled for full House action today. 
The House Rules Commit­tee, by voice vote and without debate, sent to the House floor a last-minute substitute for the pending $567 billion 
measure,  deleting only  the  
revenue sharing money.  
The  action  required  an  

abrupt turnaround by Rep. Jamie L. Whitten, D-Miss., chairman ofthe House Appro­priations Committee, who had kept alive revenue sharing In the massive spending pack­age despite Reagan adminis­tration opposition and Congress' own voted Intention to terminate the program in 
the fiscal 1987 budget. 
IAMERICAN CJ/CANCER~SOCIETY' 

GOFROMCOLLEGETOTHEARMY WITHOUTMISSINGA BEAt 
Whitten had persuaded his 
committee to cut other pro­
grams across-the-board to 
pay for revenue sharing. 
However, House Speaker Thomas P. o'Neill Jr., D-Mass., other House leaders and com­mittee chairman said they op­posed extending the program at the cost of others. The federal government, which has been run~ing deficits In excess of $200 billion, can no longer afford to continue passing along money to municipalities, they said. 
Under pressure from House leaders, Whitten submitted the substitute plan yesterday. "He had no choice," said an aide, who spoke on the con­dition of anonymity. 
The rules committee then sent the substitute bill to the floor Instead of the original, and barred any floor amend­ments to add the money back ln. 

The hardest tring about break­ing into professional music is-well, break, ing into professional music. So if you're 
for a~ oppor­tunity to turn your musical talent into 
full,time perform, career, take a 

.....~r...... look at the 
Pot, coke use revealed in survey of doctors 
"Perhaps for the first time," they .wrote, "appreciable al­though small proportions of per­sons enterirtg medicine have his­tories or extensive drug use and dependence." 
But they concluded that the drug use they found "should not be cause for great alarm," be­cause It simply reflects growing drug use throughout American life. 
"When psychoactive drug use becomes a fad and is approved by the broad spectrum ofsociety, just about all groups get In­volved," said Dr. William E. McAuliffe, the study's director. "That includes physicians and pharmacists as well, the people who are usually the keepers of the drugs." 
McAuliffe, a researcher at the Harvard School of Public Health, published his findings in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. His study was based on a random survey of 500 prac­ticing physicians and 504 medi­cal students in Massachusetts conducted in November 1984. 

LaFortune 
continuedfrom page 1 

The second floor contains Stu­dent Government Offices, the In­ternational Student Af­fairS/Minority Student Affairs Office, the Student Activities Board, Shenanigans, the class offices, WVFI radio, the Interna­tional Student lounge, the Black Cultural Arts lounge, Theodore's, and club offices. 
The third floor houses Student Activities, The Observer, the 
.35 to 40 Notre Dame students Dome,  Scholastic,  Artworks,  a  
on pre-trial diversion represents lounge  area,  and  conference  
a small fraction of the 800 pres­rooms.  

Associated Press 
BOSTON -Nearly 40 percent of doctors under age 40 admitted in a survey that they used mari­juana or cocaine to get high with friends, and a quarter of doctors of all ages said they recently treated themselves with mind-affecting drugs. 
Overall, more than half the physicians and three-quarters of the medical students who partic­ipated in the Harvard University survey said they have used drugs at least once for self-treatment, to get high or to help them stay awake. 
Only 1 percent of the doctors surveyed said their drug use had ever caused them to give poor care to patients. 
Most physicians use these drugs only occasionally, if at all. 
more experienced with drugs than are older physicians. And they predict that the proportion of drug-taking doctors will grow as medical students set up prac­tice and take their habits with them. 

Parties 
continuedfrom page 1 
think that makes you fair game to pick on," he said. 
Barnes said there Is no official policy to crackdown on Notre Dame parties but that Mayor Par­ent's press conference on stu­dent parties last spring was a response to two parties that were "particularly bad". 
Barnes said many problems also existed with non-Notre Dame parties. Scopelltis said the 
ently on the program. 
In an accompanying editorial, Dr. David C. Lewis of Brown Uni­versity recommended more em­phasis on the dangers of drug abuse In medical school. He noted that the stu.dy found that the students surveyed had received more formal education about drug problems than had practicing doctors. 
of 40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
Most important, you can expect a first-rate pro, fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
programs that can help _you pay for off, 
duty instruc, 
tion, and if you qual­. ifv, even 
help you repay your federally ,insured student loans. Ifyou can sight, 

read music, performing in the could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216,5005. Or call toll free 1,8QQ, USA,ARMY 
ARMY BAND. 
BEAI LYOU Cf-N BE. 

r-----------------------------------~­
------------------------------------------------~----------­
The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 5 
L_ 
',,
1 ' 
} 
Associated Press 

U.S. News & World Report owner Mort Zuck­Editors, hold a Washington news conference erman, right, with James Daubel, left, pres­on the detention of Nickolas Daniloff. Story ident of the Associated Press Managing below. 
Soviets consider freeing Daniloff 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Soviet of­ficials yesterday considered a two-stage U.S. proposal to let American newsman Nicholas S. baniloff leave Moscow, and Secretary of State George P. Shultz left the door open for an­other meeting with the Soviet foreign minister. 
"We're working on it," Shultz said in between meetings with foreign ministers attending a special U.N. General Assembly session. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze held his own series of talks, and told reporters while posing for photographs with French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac: "the less noise the better. We con­tinue to work in a calm atmo­sphere." 
Shultz and Shevardnadze met twice Tuesday. One U.S. of­ficial said yesterday that the negotiations were "active," and that Shultz might see Shevardnadze again. 
The Reagan administration 
Kaplan "EarlyBird"classes. Takeoneand flyhighontest day. 
Want high scores on the MCAT, LSAT, GMAT, DAT, or GRE? Then get into high gear with a Kaplan "EarlyBird" class. 
We'II prepare you for one ofthese career­shaping exams and still leave you plenty of time to spare. And if you need a quick refresher before the exam, bone up with our Test-N-Tape' series at any of our 120centers. Right up to the last minute. 
So enroll. Today. Because everyone knows what the early bird gets. 



I KAPLAN 
" C A T 4/8 7 P R E P C L A S 5 B E G I N S 0 C T • 1st. 
LSAT 12/86 PREP CLASS BEGINS OCT. 2nd. 
1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466J7 Phone 219/272-41J~ 
proposal would let Danlloff leave Moscow while Soviet physicist Gennadi Zakharov Is tried in Brooklyn on spy charges. If Zakharov Is con­victed, he would be exchanged for an unspecified number of Soviet dissidents. 
Administration officials publicly refuse to equate the Danlloff and Zakharov cases, saying the U.S. News & World Report correspondent is Inno­cent. They also rule out any trade. But privately, they ac­knowledge the proposal has been put to the Soviets for con­sideration. 
The proposal was advanced by the Reagan administration soon after Daniloffwas arrested on Aug. .30 and appeared this week to be the basis for the 
U.S.-Soviet d lscussions. 
Shultz merely raised his hand in a restraining gesture when asked by reporters yesterday night if another meeting with Shevardnadze was in the of­fing. He also refused to say if there was progress in efforts to free Danlloff. 

Shevardnadze said earlier yesterday that ''we have given good proposals" to the Americans. "They must think about them." 
But a U.S. official in Washing­ton said: "there hasn't been anything acceptable to us that the Soviets have proposed yet." 
Shevardnadze, emerging from a meeting with a Maltese official at the United Nations, said he still believed there was a chance of resolving the Danlloff dispute. 
"Yes, yes, there's a possibili­ty. There is a chance. Every­thing's up to the American side," he said. 
Asked if some sort of ex­change had been discussed during the negotiations, he replied: "Don't Interfere with them. Give us a chance to work." 
Presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said yesterday In Washington that the "issue is not resolved." 
t t COUNSELINE 
f All you do is dial 239-7793 and ask for the 
name or number of the tape you wish to hear.I Below ts the list of tapes offered. COUNSELINE f is a confidential telephone service that offers f professionally taped materials coverinq a varietyf of student concerns. Now Starting! 
t Hours: Mon -Thu-8pm -Mid. 
t 
·c-.al~ Tape• 
t 
ntta 
t 
1 Friandebip luildin& 3 Type• of lntia&cy 
t 
4 Pbyeical Intt.acy 6 Ixpcaoein1 Ba1ative Thoucbt• and feelins• 7 Deallns vlth ConetructiYe Criticl•• 
t 
8 Dealln& vlth Anpr 9 Underetandin& Jealouay and Bow to Deal With It 10 Hov to Say "llo" 
t 
16 Beco.inc Op.n to Other& 18 Datlna Skill• 20 r...l. Ho.oeexuality 
t 
21 Male Mo.oaexua1ity 1() Anxiety and Pouiba llaya to Cope With It 
t 
32 Hov to Deal vith Loneline11 J3 How to Handle Fears 34 Inc\eaains Self-Awareness 
35 Suildinc Self-Eateem and Confidence J7 R@laxation Exerci•••t 38 Copins with Stresa 
t 
39 Feaale Sex Bole--chances and Streaae• 40 Kale Sex Role--chance• and Streaoeo lolo Learnins to Accept Youroelf 
STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCAnONAL CENTER LTD. 

t t  so 51 52 61 10  Undf:r.tandlng Eating Dkorders l lnderatanding Anexorla Understanding Bulimia What h Theo-apy and How to Uae Infatuation or Love?  It  I t  
t  83 84 85  How to Cope with a Broken Relationship Death and Dyins Vnderoiandinc Grief  t  
t t  90 160 161 402 412  Helpin1 a Friend Early Sisns of an alcohol Proble~ Reaponaible Deciaiono about Drinkinc Self Assertiveness Exa~leo of Cont~act lui1din&  t t  
t t  4Jl 432 4]3 478 479 491  What ia O.preaaion How to Deal with Depreaaion Depreaaion as a Lif~atyle Jeca.ins Inde~d•nt fro. Parents Dealin& with Alcoholic Parenta Suicidal Crioia  t f  
t  492 493  Recosnizinc Sui~dal Kolpinc So.eone in a  Potentials in Others Suicidal Crioio•  t  
t  COUNSEUNE is a completely anonymous  t  
t t t  service offered by the counseling and psychol­ogical services center, UniVersity of Notre Dame. For further information or assistance, call 239-7336  t t t  

Claiborne pleads for tax evasion acquittal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Abandoning calm testimony In his own defense, federal Judge Harry E. Claiborne beseeched the Senate Impeachment Committee Tues­day to acquit him If it believes he was the victim of the "brutal errors" of Income-tax preparers. 
Asked by Sen. Mitch McConnell why a convicted tax evader should be exonerated In his Im­peachment trial, Claiborne leaned into a microphone and pleaded for acquittal, "If you honestly feel in your heart I got a raw deal." 
Claiborne, serving time in a federal prison while still carrying the title, and salary, of chief U.S. district judge for Nevada, tes­tified for the second straight day In his 6-day-old trial. 
65 mph limit OK'd for portions ofinterstates 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate yesterday approved a $52..3 bil­lion highway bill that would in­crease the maximum speed limit to 65 mph on rural portions of interstate roads, but a House chairman Immediately responded with a threat to let the proposal die. 
"I don't know whether we will go to conference as long as this is In the bill," declared Rep. Jim Howard, 0-N.J., chairman of the House Public Works and Trans­portation Committee. 
"I don't know how anybody could vote for legislation that 
f f f f t t t t t t t t 
t 
t 
t 
t t t 

The trial followed a unanimous House Impeachment vote earlier this year. The committee of 12 senators hearing evidence will , later hand the case to the full Senate for a verdict on whether Claiborne can keep his lifetime 
job on the federal bench. 
In addition to urging a favor­able decision so he could restore 
his  own  battered  life,  the  69­ 
year-old  Claiborne  maintained  
that  the  independence  of the  

federal judiciary would suffer if judges could be "literally chased from the bench for any reason." 
Launching into his theme that he was framed by vengeful federal prosecutors, the judge said, "The biggest danger I can see to the federal courts is ifever there be created a buddy rela­tionship between the federal 
judiciary and the executive branch of government." 
could result In so many deaths, In so many paralyzing injuries and other serious Injuries on the nation's roads," Howard added In a statement released by his committee. 
If the House and Senate ver­sions of the legislation do not go to a conference committee, the differences in the bills would remain unresolved by next month's congressional aqjourn­ment. 
Thus, the four-year program authorization, which envisions $1 2 • .35 billion In federal highway aid annually, would not go to the White House for President Reagan's signature. 
The provision to permit state legislatures to raise the speed limit from the current level of 55 mph to 65 mph on portions of the Interstate system outside the nation's cities was approved Tuesday night by the Senate. 
The lawmakers yesterday ap­proved the bill Itself, which would also bar construction of bil­lboards along federal highways. 
WI DO NOT CURl 
BALDNESS! 
Wehelpyou1row 
thicker, healthier hair. 
-TIM "*"""",.,Mlnoxldii­

Afler years of research, Hair Loss Center has 1r1 entirety new concept in the treatment of hair loss that produces visible results. call for aFREE con­sultation to see i1 your thinning hair problem can be SQived, belore it's too late. 

HAIR LOSS CENTER 
703 LWW, Mishawaka 
Ph. 255·8808 
Saturday Noon-4 pm. 
, ..Cotld.nl, c.,,,., 


Load·~-·-·.....
(111.., to......,. 


"ievv~_()_l_•llt Th-ursd~a~~~pt-emb-er2-s,I_9a~--pa-ge-6 
Americans' labels of Communism are unfounded 
One of the things that strikes me most about public opinion in the United States is the fervent anti-communist mood. Frankly, I'm quite shocked at the level of hatred, oversimpPfication, misinforma­tion and falsification when it comes to the discussion about communism or the Soviet Union. 
Peter Palesch 
guest column 
Be assured, "Communists" are human beings like you or me, have families for whom they care, they enjoy life, yes, they even smile and laugh and they want peace just as we do. Surprised? Well, if you watch movies like Rambo or rely on columns like "Talks with Communists not always the answer" (Kevin J. Smant in The Observer Viewpoint of Sept. 7) you probably are. 
What bothers me most in these anti­communist tirades is the often implicit assumption that "we in the West" (as Kevin described the United States and its allies) are the moral superiors. We are the good guys, the others the bad guys. And thus we can justify everything we do in the name of anti-communism (for ex­ample the overthrow of truly elected gov­ernments a in the cases of Chile and Guatemala or the support for so-called "freedom fighters" who specialize in ter­rorizing the population of Nicaragua). After all communism is a bad and every­thing against it is a good. Simple, isn't it? 
To bolster the claim of the bad com­munists, some recent Soviet misdeeds are vividly pictured -in most cases the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan 
SYR is defended as high point of semester 
Dear &Jitor: 
At the Michigan game two weeks ago I 
heard 59, 075 fans chanting "Lou, Lou." 
Naturally I assumed they were cheering 
for our new football coach. Ah, but I was 
mistaken. Yesterday's Observer showed 
that the "Lou, Lou" call was actually for 
Notre Dame's anti-alcohol crusader Lou 
Sarabano. 
After reading Fun Boy Lou's article I 
found myselfIn completeagreement. Lou 
Doonesbury 
/.1)()/(, MIK£, I KJ.JOIJI tr~ FOR~ 8IfT YaJH4~ 70UN· 
Cf3RSTANf)-JJrlOW6HTUP 
IN 50METHIN6HE/i!£. ANP~ EXCITING! I LOVE MY NWLJFE! 
.......?.ii~/ 
provides proof enough for the ar­gumentations that the Soviets are aggres­sive warmongers. At the same time however, it is conveniently overlooked that the Soviet Union's invasion of Af­ghanistan has its counterpart in the United States' policy via Nicaragua, El Sal­vador and Guatemala. 
Although the justification of the U.S. involvement in these countries, i.e. defense of human rights and democracy against communist aggression suggests a "good cause," I would argue that it is not very different from the Soviet Union's justification of their invasion, i.e. defend­ing Afghanistan aganst imperialist ag­gression. This becomes obvious if we look back at the long history of U.S. in­volvements in Central America: the defense of human rights and democracy did not play any role in the U.S. policy in Central America. What it boils down to is simply the policy of a superpower that does not allow for independent nations in its self-declared security zone. Alone the possibility that such a nation could formulate policies which might be harm­ful to U.S. interests ( whatever these are or whoever defines these) is conceived as a threat that has to be eliminated. Is that so different from what the Soviets are doing? 
It is interesting to note that in this con­text the label "Communist" suddenly takes on a new meaning. Everyone who does not agree with and acts against the status quo easily becomes a Communist 
just in the same way as in the Soviet Union everyone who fights against the almighty state apparatus may be labeled an im­perialist agent (with all its consequences). And again, because being a communist is a bad we do not have to be concerned with human rights or democracy while 
Is right. What Notre Dame · nationally known as the Mecca of College social life needs Is more administration Involve­ment In our private lives. The University's crackdown on fun should not be halfway: fun should be completely abolished. I nominate Lou a the student leader of this noble crusade. 
The first question I want to ask Mr. Sarabando Is whether he has ever been to an SYR. Those two nights a semester on which he said we act like "Class A jerks" and have the "Domer mentality'' are some of the best nights at Notre Dame. 
IRONIC IJ&TAOIMeNT? 
OH,MIK&, MIK&... 
I 
fighting this communism. 
Is that our moral superiority? Isn't the killing of children in Afghanistan as morally wrong as the killing of children in Nicaragua-even ifthey were "real com­munist" children? Obviously President Reagan and many in Congress think dif­ferently, or probably they don't care. 
Another area of supposed proof of So­viet aggression is the arms race. While all we hear about the United States is its need for security, the Soviets are portrayed only as potential aggressors. But don't they have security needs too? After all they experienced painfully what it means to be invaded and they still haven't forgotten this. What should they think of the rapid expansion of the U.S. military force in the light of President Reagan's repeated remarks that the So­viet Union is evil and thus has to be erased? Shouldn't they feel threatened by the U.S. quest for being Number One ­and answer with increased military spend­ing'? 
Please, don't misunderstand me, donot want to justify any Soviet action like the invasion of Afghanistan nor am I interested in showing how bad "we in the West" really are. But before we raise the claim to be the good guys, we'd better clean up our own house and realize that both, the United States and the Soviet Union are superpowers playing super­power geopolitics. Therefore patriotic self-righteousness is totally out of place. 
Peter Palesch is a Notre Dame alumnus and presently a German Fulbright Ex­change Student. 



··-­
~ 



P.O.BoxQ 
These nights give us an opportumty to ask someone, either a friend or someone we are Interested In, to have a good time in the dorm. Unless you like to get laughed at, "Let's go for a bottle of club soda and discuss the origins of life,"just doesn't cut it. 
If I'm not mistaken it Isn't written on all SYR tickets that the holder ofthis ticket must get sloppy drunk and vomit uncon­trollably In the bathroom. 
As he said, "Ifwe need alcohol to enjoy our weekends, we are not at the right Institution." If we all didn't want the op­portunity to drink we would have gone to 
Garry Trudeau 

Brigham Young or Oral Roberts. 
The administration gives us the oppor­tunity to have a good time, and I'm sorry if you don't take advantage of it. Why don't you go to an SYR and see how much fun the "other half" has exhibiting the "Domer mentality." Let me know how it goes and maybe we'll do lunch. 
Mike Kelly Rod Strickland Shane O'Flaharty Brian Newhouse Tom Sedory Morrissey Hall 

Quote of the Day 
"A faithful friend is an image of God" 
French Proverb 
THATtu45 7UOSCA50NS AGO,HON. 
I 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . .......: .... Chris Bowler 
The Observer Is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . .....•... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Colligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . .............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~------~---------------~ -------------~----------------------­



Accent 
Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 7 

Cluchey's 531st Performance In 'Krapp's Last Tape' Masterful 
Laura Lindner 
features writer 
Rick Cluchey's 5.31 st perfor­mance of Samuel Beckett's "Krapp's Last Tape" was a mas­terful conviction. The audience at Washington Hall, both stu­dents and adults, was spiritually and emotionally moved despite a technical breakdown in the sound system. 
The intricate spatial arrange­ment of the stage combined with the mechanical and lyrical details of Cluchey's performance made Beckett's distilled vision of the human condition highly evoca­tive. 
On stage~~ ~~ 
Krapp's Last fape 
Cluchey, appearing In tattered old clothes, was the focal point on a darkened stage advertising a celebration of Beckett, the quintessential writer of the 20th century. Krapp is a mechanism of facial expressions, weary sighs and resonating grunts as he enters his dimly lit den com­posed merely of a worktable, chair and hanging lamp. The au­dience was intensely waiting, a common element in Beckett plays, for conversation amid total immersion in Cluchey's detailed use of non-verbal com­munication. 
Cluchey engaged in a series of repetitive, physical and tactical movements and gestures, in­cluding a mugged facial expres­sion when confused or con­centrating, contrasted with a stark dimensional, almost exag­gerated, opening of the eyes when thinking or remembering. Ail of this pervaded Krapp's sys­tematic eating of banana halves, giving his character an essence of triviality and emptiness. 
Following this comical, but yet depressing, scene with an old, preoccupied man with nothing better to engage his mind, Clue­hey brings out the essential prop, a reel-to-reel tape recorder and a series of boxes. At this point Krapp began the activity that consumes his waking hours. He looked up a particular tape in a book that indexed each spool, his .39th birthday, "box .3, spool 5." It was at this point Krapp ut­tered his first audible words, reveling in the word "spool" and cataloging the topics of the tape. When Cluchey began to play the tape, the sound system unfor­tunately failed to produce causing a break in the perfor­mance. 
Despite technical difficulties, the show continued flawlessly. In the play Krapp is a 69 year-old man confronting his .39th birthday. While listening to the tape, the audience learns that the man at .39 Is not the same man as he was 1 0 years ago because he has given up all vision of his "Opus Magnum." He wants to return to the time when he was happy with a woman and despite the mention of eight women In the play, it is evident Krapp Is a bankrupt lover and desperate al­coholic. In his final t;:,pP ::.t ;o~!'JP 69, he can only lou~.. \..)'' ucally at the tone of his voice, his fals·~ 



Cluchey sbowing one of his many facial expressions in bis role as Krapp. 

aspirations and his meaningless  of a depraved human condition.  ping  the  inessentials,  making  
life.  During his third visit to Notre  "Krapp's Last Tape" a true poetic  
Dame  Cluchey  Is  masterfully  and  mechanical  expression  of  
At age .39 Krapp feels that the  teaching his audience a play of  aging. Krapp Is a  man  who Is  
world  is  below  him,  "moving  a  failed  human being,  written  Incarcerated by his failed past  
from side  to  side and up and  and  directed  by  Beckett.  AI- emphasized  by  his  physical  
down, "  and yet it Is also  non­ though this version which Clue- swigs of alcohol and mugged fa­ 
existant. It Is this same sensation  hey brings to Notre Dame has  clal expressions, trapped In the  
that he reiterates at age 69 but  differences from the published  shadows of a  meaningless life  
unlike 30 years ago, he does not  text,  Beckett,  the  foremost  and Rick Cluchey's masterful per­ 
want to ever return to this life.  playwright  of  the  absurdist  formance of this Beckett charac­ 
This serves as the intpnc;e endlnn  theatre,  has  successf.uiy  com­ ter will long be remembered as  
of Beckett's drama,  a  portrayal  pressed  his message bv strip- theatrical genius.  

'Growing Up Catholic' Not-SoBad 
Katie Sullivan  matter spring, summer and win­ She should use a telephone book  
features writer  ter wear too."  instead of a guys lap and she is  
The nonchalant back and forth  advised never go to restaurants  
Growing  up  catholic  doesn't  dialogue  between  Kelly  and  with white table cloths; it could  
necessarily sound exciting.  Davis had the entire crowd en­ remind her date of bed sheets.  
But  it  was  humorous  when  visioning the absurdities of their  Kellyand Davis also gave some  
Maureen Anne Teresa Kelly and  early parochial school days. For  suggestions  to  encourage  the  
Richard Glen Michael Davis, the  Instance,  a  Nuns favorite word:  ailing Nun vocation. Instead of  
two  authors  of the  New  York  "NO!"  calling it celibacy they suggested  
Times  bestseller  "Growing Up  calling it asexuality. They also  
Catholic,"  turned  our  Catholic  Remember practicing for your  suggested changing Convent to  
lives into a  three-ringed circus  First  Communion  with  pickle  Condo.  
during their hour of comedy at  slices  or  quarters?  The  days  When they started ranking the  
O'Laughlin Auditoriun last night.  when you would go home and  qualities to look for In  a  great  
It was  interesting watching a  play Mass with the neighborhood  Catholic institution, the show be­ 
group of so-called  Holy Molies  kids? Or how about going to con­ came  depressing.  Number one  
waiting  to  hear their faith  get  fession and forgetting the "Bless  is a nationally ranked basketball  
kicked around. But then again,  me Father for I have sinned...?"  or football team. Kelly and Davis  
haven't  we  always  wanted  to  commented that Notre Dame is  
laugh at our upbringings?  absurd  Catholic  Amidst all the knocking of Catholic quirks sat the only Nuns  no longer Saint Lou Of Holtz, is it?  
It was one rellgous crack after  in the auditorium. The three ad­ 
another when the opening line was "May the Lord be with you." Kelly sported the infamous girls uniform of 100 percent  mlttingly chuckled and shoulders shook. But they kept glancing at one another with looks of utter amazement. The  Number two, a good male/female ratio. Number three, bars no further than 20 feet a part. At least they ranked  
polyester  with  an  understated  Nuns didn't really groove on the  Notre Dame number one as far  
plaid,  peter-pan  collar  and  perils of a Catholic girls date.  as catholic college for sports. We  
snazzy pearl snap. Davis, In his  The girl is suppossed to bring  have that going for us.  
conservative  blue  blazer,  a  dime,  never to slip from be­ The question remains will we  
casually described his apparel as "the Vatican fall wear, for that  tween her knees and If It does, she should use it to call home.  ever get to heaven? I think so, see you there.  

---~ ---~~

r­
• 
The Observer 


r 
! 
• Unique Sandwi 
•Italian 
sausage 

•Italian 
meatball 

• 
Beef and company 



•and manym
Aeeteurant And Cocktail Lounge Aulhentk Szechun and HunM T..­a Notre Danae, Saint Mary's Tradition for over30 years. 
Soups, Salads, Appe1Mon.-Fri. Lunches startin& at•••• _._s2.95 
Cel•brate football weekends at the 
BeerandW Great Wall 
Casual Atmos Dinners startin& at._ •• _•••s4.25 
._open7dayaaw-.k PLUS:' ....~11:30 a.•.·lD (II.& frt.-Sit.: 11:311 .....u (II.& 
Football Catering ~ 
S.. &Hei1My111:3D a.a-11 (II.& 

3 foot or 6 foot Sa1 ~-----~~--------· Meat and Che~
NAUGLES. :~:!ay~~:R:=~\ndmn~72-s4ss I
Next to Randall.s Inn 272·7~7' 
Special Boxed I
I

South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! 
MEXICAN Kl~~"~! AM~~~~.~.. ~~~~~EN I 
T•co 1.09 1.69 CUSTOM GR1WD NOT STOCK P11LD 
Bunltoe
Be•n Neugleburger 1.99
1 79
· 2.49 2 Patties with the W<Yks 
Mnt 2.39 3.29 double cheese 

II I LargeSc
Combo 2.09 2.79 ChaM 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hemburger 1.39 Make 1111\1 burrito wet lor 50 cents!! 2 Patties with lettuce, 
P.S. Don't order macho Wlless you're ready lor 11 tomato, l1\llloO dressing pomd ol goodies! 
H••burger 1.19 2 Patties with pickle, ketchup, 



Satellitl
N•dwM. CbMM 1.19 
mustard, oniCI'1
Haw some sauce for no extra charge to spice them 
up that rruch mere. 
add cheese ~20 
M•cbo Necho'• 2.19 DESSERTS 
Re&led beam, ~. "'-se, peppers, mid meat 

6502 Grap4
sauce, spicy !Jeen saucor! Hat Fudge • Hat Car.mol • Slrawborry • Orange 
8luobony • Chocolate • Cheny • Vanilla • Root S.. Toetede Greade 3.29 Sluoka 1.09 (In a shoil · wonderfull 
Sundea 1.<&9 

University 4
R.g. "Piattor 
Fudge Brownie .69 Malcan Saled 1.29 2.89 
P..try .69 Toetede Combo 1.59 2.09 
Fudge Brownie Sundee 1.69 Chile Ole' .99 2.39 
Teco Sandwich 1.<&9 2.59 
DRINK UPI
Chicken Sandwich 1.7<& 2.84 

Mishaw1
Cold Balerege•
P1atte-· Aa1011JTWnt of sauces & side orders. 
Uter-.94 
Want It a sp«::ee way . just order It! 
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. Dew Dr. PeppEr, Welches, Slice, Lemonade, Ice Tea
Enclllleda'• (P1atte-ot 2t 

277-727
Mut •lotza sauce & ciMese 2.00 Milk, Orange Juice also available 

Hot Bever • .,. •.<&7 DINNERS Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Tea .... Eocbll•d•-..... #2 Mecho Teco SIDE ORDERS 
Mon-Thurs
•3 M..t Burrito FreDCh Frla .99 
Refrled Beeu .99

•• a.ee.. Barrlta • Teco 
with cbUI AIICI! .99 

Fri-Sat 1~ 
~with Mcxbn salad, reined bans, chill & 
Necbo Chi.,. .39

cheese.~. 50UI' aum & a pile ol ciWps. 
G•eceaole · Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 A dmor with lnCJU!jllofl """"' for lomcnow's LUNCH! 
Sunday 1:
So.rCna• .15 
<&.79 E.tra c..._ fur •nythlllil .50 
~~·6.00 ~ordlr 
+ 





ISODS 
.acri's Deli 
lch Menu: 
•Gyros 
•
Croissants 

•Old 
Chicago 


•ore! 
tizers, Desserts 
rine ;phere 
•
• 
fl'ailgaters) ndwiches seTrays Lunches 
:reen 
eTV 
eRoad Center 

t :30-10:00 t :30-11:00 2:00-10:00 
·raste the Arotna of RonJa.nce ..... 
Tue Special: All you con eat Sirloin Dinner Fondue Style 
Wed Special: All you con eat Seafood Dinner Fondue Style 
Thr Special: All youcon eat Chicken Dinner Fondue Style 
Try our Chef's featured entrees Friday and Saturday evenings 
Th1s coupon entitles you to tour dollars ott the total pnce 
ot your dinner ticket when ordering two dinners. 
Th1s coupon cannot be used w1th any other promot1onal otter and 
only one coupon per table . thank you. 

100 Center Old Brewery Building 255-1526 Mishawaka Tue-Thr 5-9 Reservations Suggested Fri & Sat 5-1 0 

•
• Char. Broiled 1/4lb. Ground Chuck Burger • : with french fries and pickle spear : : for $2.49 : 
: Unive..-sit~ Park Mall ! : • (ne~t to Sears} : • 
........................•..................: 
w w w w w
' 
The Fondtte Parlor 

OPEN TUESDAY through SATURDAY 
219-272-9220 
RESERVATION~ RECOMMENDED 
24460 Adams Road South Bend, Indiana 

Dally and Nightly Specials with &ee manchlea 
Monday thra Friday 4:0G-7:00 pm 
Monday thra Saturday 
10:00 pm-Clo•e Phone 2n-6368 6402 Grape Road 
Across from University Park Mall on Grape Road 
Join our "Around the World with 80Beers" 
~--------------------Club·----~ 

UNL" 
gg~ 
iHRUOCT. 



+ 

: ~ ~ 
~~ 
' ~' 
. rj i1 
~ 
-l~
' (1 
~ 
. t 
The Rolfs Aquatic Center will re-open on Sunday, September 29, at 1 p.m. The pool will then be open the following hours: Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and 6:.30 p.m. to 10:.30 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 10:.30 p.m. There Is also a family swim for family members accompanied by an NO employee on Sunday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-Purdue game will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. In Stepan Center. All pep rallies for the rest of the year will be held In Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Stepan Center court time requests are now available in the Student Activities Office, third floor of LaFortune. Deadline for applying Is tomorrow. -The Observer 
Officials for interhall soccer, grad football, and women's interhall flag football are still needed. If interested call the NVA office at 2.39-6690. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics is offering two evening aerobics classes. "Late Night at the Rock" meets every Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 
p.m. In Gym 1 of the ACC. Registration may be done at the NVA office. A complete listing of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 2.39-6100. -The Obser­ver. 






Classifieds 

~--~--·---------------~.....-~-----------­
The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 10 
The Observer/File Photo 

Alonzo Jefferson has been unable to make ferson is practicing with the team once any diving gains for a while, due to a knee again, and Marty Bums takes a look at his il'\iury suffered against Michigan in the first week in Football Notebook on page 16. opening Irish football game last season. Jef­

).tllll llffH l , .. 'r , t1 I .1 I , , r 11tt H '!lldl'!Jil tllltf ·"''l''''l.l"llltd ... htrll,lll).:lll'f\I'I.Jtll llllllill'"' \l,lhl.tl 
lhr••t•gh I rod.11 IJ•, ,,1>,,.,,,., '.•1111 \!.111 '''"", :, , .tl< ,j •>1111·.• 11Iord f1,.,,, 
,,f ll.•gg.lf ( o!lt _l!t ( t !lit r ''. t 1'1' 1 ~.l''lflt ,: ... ff•otll 1.' 'I' p ~11 .r'ltal "I' 111 \f.or1 d.l\ 1h' ·ugh !11( 1.n l•t .tdl1rH I· r :•1 '' ,'.~'< . 1 ,'"... ,,r:, ~l .. · ..... l' .,, \ .. , !_,,... ,!;, d' 
ntu-..rhlpr(p.nd ctfl:t!IJ}I''''t'ft•·r~·. "t.a1. t ll,l!t:,t ,...... ,,.,: .... ,,,:1:\t ,tJ.tf.t, l<f' '<fd.l\ 

ATTENTION ALL SOUTHERN CAL PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 2n-o548. LOVERS! If you are Interested In die­NEED 10 PURDUE TIX. MOM WILL NEED TX'S FOR PURDUEICALL 1272 
~_NO_T_IC_Es~JI~_w_A_N_TE_D~~~~__TIC_K_ET_s~ 

My Mom's never IHn an lrlah game! count flights for Xmas & other breaks, NEED 8 PURDUE GAS MIKE 2535 PIHie Hll rna 2 Purdue tlxll She'll I can get great fares for groupe of 25 or more.
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. TYPIST5-$500 weekly at home I Write: TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE. pay big SSI Kevin at 42n. Call for Info Michelle 284­CALL DOLORES 277-8131. P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 255-1343 AFTER 5:30. DESPERATELY NEED 8 GA's and 2 5096. Student Tlx to Purdue Gamel! Call ED I HAVE 2 PURDUE GAs, BEST OFFER 
Help wanted p11rt time. Computer retell I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tlcketa lit 288-55119 LEAVE MESSAGE DANCE, DANCE, DANCE with the TYPING AVAILABLE atore. Call 277·5028. dHperlltelyl Cell Mike at 283-1855. CRAIG 288 81911. NO.SMC Council for the Retarded at 297-4082 Tlxa needed tor Pmpme. Cell1-303-PURDUE GA1 FOR SALE.277-Q298 Logan Center Friday, Sept. 28, 7:30 to 
BABYSITTER WANTED. 8-12 HAS. A NEED 2GA PITT TICKETS CALL 312· 59&-0095. 

10 p.m. (pick up SMC at Holy Crou WK FLEXIBLE. 287-3315. 884-8328 COLLECT 
I HAVE 1 PURDUE SENIOR'ThciBest at 7:00). New and old volunteer~ wel­Wordproceulng reaumea, ate. WILL TRADE TWO GA Pm FOR TWO Offer·DAN 1151 come! Typnet quality. 287-11024. SKI ALL WINTER I Crylltlll Mountain Ia Needed: 2 GAl for Air Force. Call GA AIR FORCE. CALL SHAWN (814) now hiring chlldren'a akl Instructors x2134. 464-5445. I need 1 Air Force G.A. call Brian at Bill Fazzalaro Ia Joining Moreau Sem to be come 1 Jesuit becauH he Ia
JAMISON INN Part time positions for the winter -•on. Selary plus 1779 Important (or aomethlng like that). 
available In houHkeeplng and desk room & board. Contact Martha Mandel NEED 4 GA PITT TICKETS. CAU 277-HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S.BEST OFFER work. Plene c.ll 2n-H12. or O.ve Hotaclcer at (818)378-2911. 0194. BY FRI.CALL MARK 4018 PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL 
3520 PERRY "THE DANCING BEAR" BED & BREAKFAST. 2 NITE MIN. 15 HELP I MY FRIEND AND I NEED A RIDE DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'A FOR HAVE 2 PITT GA'I, NEED 2 PURDUE DELECE IS AVAILABLE FOR DATES MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 291-7845. TO ST. LOUIS THE WEEKEND OF PURDUE GAME. CAU M.B. X3029 GA'I AND 4 ALABAMA TIX. CAU PURDUE! I need 2 GA'1. Cell Jill at WITH YOUNG , HOT, STEAMING, 
OCT. 4 TO LEAVE FRI AND RETURN CRUISER AT 1988 OR PAT AT 1712. 1254. SLOBBERING, AGGRESSIVE SAINT TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER SUN. WIUING TO SHARE EXPENSES. NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. MARY WOMEN; "SCREAMERS" RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT 4304. CALL CATH AT 284-4232. SPENT ALL LAST WEEKEND STUDY· NEED 2 GA'S TO NO-ALABAMA PREFERED & BRING YOUR OWN 
FOR MEALY COLOR CITY 272-5959. lNG ORGO & BIO-want to get WILD GAME. CALL 1-404-481-4514 AND MONEY. 
Female Roommate wanted, NEEDED: AIR FORCE GA'S 284-thla WHkend wfrlend lit PURDUE ASK FOR JOE. ATTENTIION: BREAKFAST LOVERs­Senlor.Gred. Share 2 Bdrm fum apt 4350,283-2344. game. NEED 1 TICKET-ANY PRICE! TOP QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH PANCAKE BREAKFAST 9-27,AT 9am, gu htd. 1345. 272-&584 after 7 ANGELA 3435 Deaperately Hiking 1 Purdue GA. CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. at Auguatalounge, Price: $1.50 all you I REALLY NEED ONE Pm GAl WIU Pluae call 284-4382. PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR can eatl Wanted-modela tor hair show at Uni­TRADE STUDENT AIRFORCE PLUS NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY 
MORE INFORMATION AT 2n-3932 OR versity Park Mall-Medium length to $ ... TARA 2896 BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME Mom, Ded, Uncle Richard, Uncle Tom 272-3932. short hair, Sept.2&2t, Oct.H, IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS & Aunt Marla, I'm atlll trying to gilt 5 Oct.11112. Fl'ftoelll 277-4800 Ext.488. I NEED 8 PURDUE GA TIX. FAMILY CAU JOE 231-7471 OR Purdue OA'a tor you. I'm aure aome Slightly lnune drummer wanted for
LOST/FOUND I 

ARRIVES FRI. DON'T NEED TIX TO BE 283-1931. THANKS klndhurted peraon will coma to our completely twlated party bend. Let the part time waHre1111 and bartenders TOGETHER. PLEASE CALL PAUL rescue. Marte at 284-5303. music do the talking. Rick 1138 or Czar MISSING: DARK BLUE BACKPACK needed at amltty'a coney Island tap, £2247 OR 2317 1142. Yuhhhhl WITH BROWN TRIMMING-EASTMAN. NEED ONE PURDUE STUDENT Need 4 Purdue GA'a -John 283-1722
125 no. michigan, eouth bend. Must LAST SEEN AT THE NO BOOKSTORE NEEDED:ONE PURDUE TICKET,ANY TICKET SENIOR COCKTAIL PARTY!
be 21. LOBBY TUES SEPT 18. WOULD THE TYPE,TOP DOLLAR PLUS PLEASF! He'a coming no matter what, and we NEED A PURDUE STUD. TICKET? I'LL SENIOR COCKTAIL PARTYI PERSON WHO ACCIDENTALLY Want atudent to drive car to Palm HELP ME.CALL PETE AT 232-9534 AT don't want to luve a GIVE YOU MINE FOR THE PRICE OF TONIGHT during braak THIS CAN ME 9 p.m.-1 a.m.
PICKED IT UP PLEASE RETURN IT. Springe, CA fall or NIGHT Purdue guy In our room without tome­AD IF YOU GIVE A CALL ANA MARIA AT 272-4363. holldaya. Mra. Green 232-8734. OR EARLY MORNING.PLEASE body wlltchlng him. GOOD LEAD FOR GETTING COUPLE Semi-Formal PLEASE,THANK YOU So pluae call Max at x1384. OF DECENT PITT GA'S. MARK (1868) D.J. Appetizers TIX LOST AT MICHIGAN GAME. I'D Aida needed to Chlc.go thla WHkend. THANK YOU A.C.C. Monogram Room SENIOR COCKTAIL PARTYI
LIKE TO CATCH ANOTHER GAME 284-5275 Michelle. NEED 8 GAs for AIR FORCE, OCT 18. 
SENIOR COCKTAIL PARTY!

THIS SEASON. THEY WERE IN SEC­I NEED GA'S FOR PURDUE. PLEASE 239-5873 TION 32, ROW 35. PLEASE CALL I NEED THREE PURDUE TIX-EITHER CALL ANNETTE 284-4312. MISSY 272-5485. STUDENT OR GA. CALL DOC £3380. IN A PANIC!! Family coming In from
FOR SALE 
Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­

NEED 2 PURDUE GA'a. Will trade (Air Jeraey and Ohio for PITT GAME-NEED LOST Need GA'a for Purdue and Pitt. Call Force GA'a) or pay CASH. Call Mike SIX TIX-GA-STUDI Steph 272-5417 MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday -Thurlclay 5pm-12am; Friday 
FRESH WATER PEARL BRACELET FOR SALE 277-97114. at 2n-3788 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday NEAR FISHER, MORRISEY OR LEWIS One GE Llght'n'Easy Steam and Dry 4pm-10pm.

ON SATURDAY PLEASE CALL JEN­Iron with a full·alze, collabalblelronlng NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT-CALL ANNIE LETS MAKE A OEALIII I've got two I MUST HAVE 4 PITT GA'S. IF YOU NIFER AT 3820. REWARD. board, pad, and cover.-525. Call Kelly AT 2758 GA'I for AIR FORCE; I need two GA'I CAN HELP ME CALL CHRISTY. X 3834. 
Frottage will touch your life thll

Havena at 239-5837 mornings and af­for SMU. Lilt'I talk .... Call Dennie 283­LOST WATCH , VERY SENTIMENTAL ternoon•. NEED! 4 GA PURDUE TIX • CALL 4075 or 239-5095. I need 4 Air Force GA'a. Please call weekend, 10uk your paych prof NOW for 1 definition. 
GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY RENEE 2930 Ann x284-5454. BUUVA, ENGRAVING ON BACK: To EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT PSST, BUDDY. VA YOU. DON'T LOOK Steve, love mom and dad, 12'25'83 DESIGN : "NOTRE I;)AME BEACH HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL AROUND. YOU CAN'T SEE ME. BUT Neighborhood Study Help Program PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 4859 WITH CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! IF YOU NEED PURDUE TIX, I'M YOUR needs tutore for the following centers:
PERSONALS

INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 FOR ONLY $8.00. CALL GREG FOR CALL TOM AT 1n4. MAN. CALL ME. THE DUDE. 232-8153. Marquette School Tue-Thu 2:30-3:30 PANGBORN... REWARD OFFERED INFORMATION AT 277-3932. Call Dave at 1308 111111 Help South Bend Houalng Authority Tue­
FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS, The Air Force won't ba the only ones I NEED ONE PURDUE TICKET. WILL OAR HOUSE: COI;D BEER & LIQUOR, Thu 4:00-5:00 FOUND: CALCULATOR ON THE YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL grounded In South Bend If I cannot BUY OR TRADE MY PITT TICK. 288-CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE Call John at 1245 SHUTTLE FRIDAY, 9-19. CALL GREG AT 272-3932. gilt 1958 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
ELIZABETH 284-5013 TO CLAIM. four NtvAir Farce tickets. Further queatlona about tutoring for 
CAR FOR SALE '80 DODGE OMNI 024 I'd really like to go home for Fall PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL Christian theology contradict• theH schools ehould be directed to Lost: A light blue bookbag that was 2 door,excellent condltlon,great In Break In eomllthlng other than a 3520 Deuteronomy 28; theological anti­Tom Pigott et 1788. lost 9-22-88 eomewhere betw..-. the snow and cold! 2n-3882 HearH. Semitism va. the doctrine of the NSHP -committed to the education South dining hall and Fisher hall. If Pleaae call Rich Need 8 GA tlx tor Purdue game. (Need "resurrection of the dead" taught by of the children of South Bend. found call £1958 and alk for John. 283-3482 at least 4 together) Will piiY big SSS. Jeaua. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475, 
USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS Call 2958 and aek for Marla. South Bend, IN 48634-4475. IS THIS RUSSIA? ••. COMING SOON 
HELP! I LOST MY FAVORITE NO AUDIOPHILES Need 2 GA'I for Pitt. Call 288-2912. SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE Phaae Linear Autocorrelator (noiH re­I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PARENTS FOR Don't Httle for eome fool with hla HAU TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE duction for all sources)-$100; Audio HelpiNeed 3 Purdue Tlx Stud. or GA PITT GAME. KEEP ME FROM BREAK­stereo to handle the muelc atyour next ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STU­
SMALL, AND HAS SMALL HOLES ALL PUIH Digital Time Delay (to reproduce Call Woody 272-8078. ING THEIR HEARTS. CALL PETE dance. We're profeaalonale. And we're DENTS OVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL concert hall ambience; Incorporates a AFTER 8. 288-2348. the largest Independent OJ bualn111 There will be an off-campua picnic this BARB AT 1349 IF FOUND. I CANT'T 25 watt.t:hannel amp. You supply I NEED PURDUE GA'a.272-6308 on campus. THE ONLY DJe THAT Friday from 4-7 at 54638 Ivy, which Ia FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT aecond p11lr of apeakere.) • $200; I NEED 2 PURDUE GA'SI CALL RON MATTERII Pet 2n-3887 Tlto 277~13 right ecroaa from the aoccer field. IT. REWARDIIIII Hatler 110 Preamp (audiophile quality, 283-3859 Don 283-3875 Everyone comel Free food and tone
NEEDED: TWO PURDUE GA'S. CALL

rack-mountable) • $150. Allo have of fun awalt you I 
ROB-3467

SSSREWARDSSS Loat Pentax K1000 recorda (rnany digital and 112 apeecl Need 2-4 Purdue atudent tlcketa. Cell WOMEN'S SUPPORT GROUP, 
camera In Hurley, Tuesday, Sept. 23. maatera) and pre-recorded clinical NEED 8 GAl for AIR FORCE, OCT 18. 272-2808 $$$$ THURSDAYS, 3:30-5 P.M., UNIVER­Michelle P..... call Jenny lit 288-2773. cauett11. Call 2n-5912 or 239-7133. 239-5873 SITY COUNSELING CENTER. CALL I love you. SSSREWARDSSS '84 SMC eluma return to the Dome. 239-7338 FOR INFORMATION. WT8 
IN A PANICII Family coming In from Need 2 Purdue GA'a. SS$ Call 2n­Taken: Red Backp11ck from South FOR SALE Jeraey and Ohio for PmGAME-NEED 4752. Thank You St. Jude Dining Hall; Weda Lunch. You can OM King 4B aymphony-quallty trom­SIX TIX-GA-STUDI Steph 272-5417 To 1 babe who 1111 reached her prime. 
keep IOCkl but I desperately need bone wHh F ettachment -$700 or belt Happy birthday lllndry the big 201 note• and booka back for teeta Frl and aerloua offer. One Olcla tenor student NEED 4-8 TICKETS FOR THE PURDUE NEED Pm TICKETS STUD OR GA • HELP! HELP! I AM WILLING TO DO From Spike, Raoul, Leroy, Herb, Mon. Pleeae return to South Dining trombone-$100. Call Kelly Havana lit GAME, PLEASES CONTACT PAT AT 1431 JON,-1428 TODD : WILL PAY ANYTHING FOR 4 Pm GA'S. CALL Maulle, Alexia, end Clyde. Hall or call Phil lit 281-e154. 231-5837 rnomlnga and afternoons. 1849 CASH or TRADE MEII CHRISTY X3831 P.S. Rollo. 
-


_T_h_e_O_b_s_er_v_er----------------------------------~----------------------------------------~T~h~u~rsda~ September25, 198~-page 11 

APPhoto Billy Hatcher (right) and the Houston Jtstros slid Into a guaranteed spot In post-season play, as they clinched a tie for the National LeaQue West title with a 6-0 victory over San 
Ryan leads Houston to clinch NL West tie 
Associated Press Blue Jays 8, Tigers 2 
HOUSTON Nolan Ryan 
I

pitched no-hit ball for 6 1-.3 In­
I

nings Wednesday night and the DETROIT -Home runs by Tony 
I
Fernandez and Cecil FielderHouston Astros clinched a tie for 

I

the National League West cham­highlighted a six-run Toronto 
I 

pionship by beating the San first inning, and Dave Stieb scat­
I
tered seven hits over seven in­Francisco Giants 6-0. 

I 

Ryan, who gave a clean single nings as the Blue Jays beat the 
I to Mike Aldrete in the seventh, Detroit Tigers 8-2 Wednesday I allowed one hit through eight in­night. I nings. He struck out nine and The first-inning uprising came I walked three. Reliever Charlie at the expense of Detroit's Dan I 
Kerfeld gave one hit in the ninth. Petry, 5-9, who lasted just two­I 
thirds of an inning. Stieb, 7-11, l 

Ryan, 11-8, holds the major­struck out six and walked one. I 
I

league record with five no­
I

hitters. He also has pitched nine jone-hitters. Ryan has been on 
Cardinals 7, Phillies 1 I

the disabled list twice this season with a sore elbow. 
l J 

The Astros clinched a share of ST. LOUIS-Danny Cox pitched their second NL west title. They a seven-hitter and got home-run won their other championship in support from John Morris and 
Rockne Memorial 
Schedule 

Fall 1986 until fall break and Spring break until May 1987 

Building open for activities: Mon. -Fri. 7 AM to 11 PM 
Sat., Sun. lOAM to llPM 
Recreation Swimming: 
Mon.-Fri. 7:15-9:00AM, 12:00-3:30, 5:30-ll:OOPM 
Saturday Noon -6:00PM, 7:00-11 :OOPM 


Sunday 1:00-6:00, 7:30-11:00 PM Fr. Lange Weight Room (upstairs) 
Mon.-Fri. 3:00 -IO:OOPM 
Sat., Sun. Noon -6:00PM 
Family Hours: Immediate members of students, faculty, and staff: Sun 2-SPM 
A valid J.D. Card must be presented for use of the Rockne Memorial. 
For further information call 239-6321 


"g'Qowett~ fptt oQQ occ~m~io~~ 
Come in and Browse 

321lincolnway 232-3354 
N.D. RUGBY CLUB: 

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
.::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:;:::~:;:::~:::::~:~:::=:~:::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::=:~:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
JOIN A WINNING TRADITION 
* 
No experience necessary 

* 
Looking for new players 

* 
Stepan Field 


Tues., Wed., Thurs., 4:15-6:00 *Call Sean 277-2613 

1980. Andy Van Slyke as the St. Louis 
One more Houston victory or Cardinals beat the Philadelphia one loss by runnerup Cincinnati Phlllles 7-1 Wednesday night. will clinch the title for the Astros. Cox, 11-12, struck out five and 
Billy Hatcher and Kevin Bass walked one in pitching his 
each drove In two runs and Glenn seventh complete game. Davis hit his .30th home run In Phlllles starter Kevin Gross, continuedfrom page 16 the seventh. Mike LaCoss, 10-1.3, 11-12, took the loss. 
took the loss. with a 19-17 marathon win as Hatcher's two-run single high­Waller finished with eight kills for lighted Houston's three-run the game. fourth inning and made it 4-0. Royals 2, Twins 1 
The Astros led the division 
"We were barely adequate through much of the first half of tonight," he said. "We just did the season and have been in first not concentrate, but of course place since July 21, when they MINNEAPOLIS • Frank White hit I'll take the win. beat Montreal 8-7. a solo homer In the top of the 
ninth Inning, the 46th surren­
Soccer 
"Bowling Green played great 

dered this season by Minnesota's defense, but we are just going Pirates 2, Expos 1 Bert Biyleven to tie a record set 
to have to play better when we 

.30 years ago by Hall-of-Farner meet tougher opponents down 
Robin Roberts, as the Kansas City the road." 
PI1TSBUROH · U. L. Washing­Royals beat the Twins 2·1 Wed­ton singled home the tiebreaking nesday night. run with two outs in the eighth White's homer, his 20th, gave Inning Wednesday night to give him three ofthe nine hits allowed
Irish 

the Pittsburgh Pirates a 2-1 vic­by Blyleven, 15-14, who struck continuedfrom page 16 tory over the Montreal Expos in out 14 batters and walked none. a rain-delayed game. 
"The Wright State Invitational With one out. Barry Bonds Royals starter Mark Gubicza al­is a great tournament. The kids drew a walk from Bob McClure, lowed only one run on four hits are very anxious to get back to 2-4. Reliever Jeff Reardon got in 6 1-.3 innings before giving Dayton. Last year we won one Tony Pena to ground Into a force way to Dan Quisenberry, .3-7, game and tied the other, but play, butJim Morrison and Wash­with a runner on first in the came in second place because Ington followed with singles. seventh. Quisenberry got pinch­of goal differentiation. This year Don Robinson, .3-4, earned the hitter Randy Bush to ground Into we would like to take both victory with two innings ofscore­a double play on the first pitch 1 games," Grace said. less relief. to end the iPning. 
NO-Purdue series trivia contest 
Special to The Observer  to  the  winner  of the  Notre  9.  Which  quarterback­ 
Dame-Purdue game? ·  receiver combination had the  
Notre  Dame  and  Purdue  longest scoring pass in the se­ 
have met 57 times in one of  2. When was the last time  ries' history?  
the oldest Intra-state rivalries  Purdue played at Notre Dame  
In college football. To recog­ Stadium?  10. When was the first game  
nize this long and prestigious  between  Notre  Dame  and  
series,  University  Food  Ser·  .3.  When was the last time  Purdue played? What was the  
vices  Is sponsoring  a  Notre  Notre  Dame  went  Into  the  score, and who was the win­ 
Dame-Purdue  trivia  quiz  as  Purdue contest ranked No. 1?  ner?  
part of Its Monday Morning  
Quarterback Breakfast to  be  4. When was the last time  11. Which  Purdue  coach  
held Sept. 29.  both Purdue and Notre Dame  had  the most victories  over  
To enter, simply answer the  ended the season in the Top  Notre Dame?  

questions below and turn them in no later that lunch­time Saturday to the checker stands. Contestants may en­ter as many times as they wish and all entries must have the contestant's name, address and phone number. Winners will be announced at the breakfast. In case of a tie, a drawing will determine the winner. 
First prize Is a $25 gift cer­tificate from Competition Sports Shop. Second prize Is a pullover shirt from the ACC Pro shop, and third prize is a $1 0 gift certificate from Fan· fare Sports Shops. 
Door prizes will be awarded at the breakfast. 
I. What trophy is presented 20? 

5. 
What was Ara Parseg­hian's record against Purdue? Dan Devine's? Gerry Faust's? 

6. 
In a losing effort against Purdue In 1967, Terry Han­ratty attempted a single-game record 6.3 passes. How many did he complete? 

7. 
The longest fumble return against Notre Dame was by a Purdue player In 1966. Who was he and how long was the return? 

8. 
Who holds the best lndi· vidual game passing comple­tion record against Notre Dame? 


12. Name the player, the year and the yardage of the longest kickoff return for a touchdown In the series. 
1.3. How many games have ended in a tie? 
14. Who was the first quarter­back In the history of Notre 
Dame football to d~feat the Irish three times In his career? 
15.  On  September  25,  
1971,  at  Ross-Ade  Stadium,  
Notre  Dame  scored  on  a  

blocked punt with less than two minutes remaining in the game. The Irish won, 8-7, on a two-point conversion. Describe the extra-point play. 


The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 12 
Young tennis squad 
headsfortournantent 
By STEVE MEGARGEE llvan, are sophomores. 
Sports Writer 
Junior Michelle Dasso is the top-seeded singles player, and After an Improved perfor­fourth-seeded Tammy Schmidt 

mance at its own Irish Invita­
is the lone senior on the team. tional Tournament last weekend, "We're really in the process of 
the underclassmen-dominated rebuilding and revamping the women's tennis team faces per­team. I think we'll come up with haps its toughest competition of a record that will be very respec­the fall this weekend In the Mid­table by the end of the spring west lntercollegiates at season," said Gelfman. "They Evanston, Ill. (the freshmen) have the oppor­The tournament, which starts tunity to be outstanding tennis today, is an individual-flight players as their four years go by."
! 
competition of64 singles players The Irish can look at last
I , I , and .32 doubles teams. Even weekend's Irish Invitational as though team points will not be one big step of Improvement.
I 
I 
. recorded, the Irish will run up After disappointing losses in against players from some of the dual matches to Illinois and

I I top schools in the country -in­Miami ofOhio the previous week. 

I 
. cluding defending champion Notre Dame rebounded with a I and host school Northwestern, solid showing In its own tourna­

I 
. currently ranked seventh in the ment, which, like the Midwest In­


I • nation. tercollegiates, Is an individual­) 
"It's a tough field. There will flight tournament. Although ~ be teams from the Top, 20 and team scores were not recorded, I some from the Top 10," said the Irish would have placed I Head Coach Michelle Gelfman. second or third among the five I "It's not a team competition. It schools which participated.
I 
centers on Individuals, so there's "I was very impressed with the 
I 
not as much pressure on.the in­way we played. We really capi­
I 
dividual to score points for the talized on our doubles play a lot
I Michelle Dasso, the No.1 singles player, is 
team. They'll be playing more more than we did In the past,
I Notre Dame's best bet as the women's tennis 
relaxed than they usually do." and It seemed to pay off," said
I team heads to Evanston, Ill., for the Midwest 
Competing with players from Gelfman. 

high-caliber teams like Notre Dame's doubles teams f Northwestern In the fall season are Dasso and Tolstedt, Lohrer will bring some needed playing and Illig, Schmidt and Kelly, and
I 
experience to an extremely Sullivan and O'Byrne. 
I Dolphin defense "high schoolish" 
I I young team. Even though the Irish face a I Four freshmen, second-difficult fall schedule, Gelfman I seeded Stephanie Tolstedt, said her major concern was with I Associated Press concentrate on the positive, and giving up 1,081 yards in two third-seeded Allee Lohrer, sixth­the team's spring season. I look at fllms ofpast games when games. seeded Resa Kelly, and "The fall season Is an adjust­
MIAMI -The a<ljectlve "high

I they have played well. "The only situation similar to eighth-seeded Patty O'Byrne, will ment season for us. Even though
schoollsh" was thrown out by a

I Veteran safety Lyle Blackwood this for me was at Seattle when be among the eight students we play a lot of matches In the
coach and a player In describing

I also Is preaching the power of It was an expansion team," said playing In the tournament. Two fall, the heaviest part of the
the once proud Miami Dolphins

l positive thinking. But he admits Blackwood, a 14-year veteran more, fifth-seeded Natalie Illig schedule Is in the spring," said
l defense. 
It's hard to be positive after playing with his fourth NFL team. and seventh-seeded Julie Sui-Gelfman.
Another member of that shell­shocked corps was kinder, com­paring the way he and his 

I' cohorts are playing to his earlier stint with a first-year professional expansion team. The Dolphins have given up 111 points and 444.7 yards per game In their first three games. In 197.3, by contrast, the Dol­phins gave up only 150 points the entire season. With a 50-28 loss to San Diego and a 51-45 overtime Joss to the New York Jets, Miami is the first team to give up 50 points In 
I' 
more than one game In a season since the 1967 Denver Broncos. The Dolphins now have 1.3 games to establish a league record of three 50-point debacles. 
The 1-2 start miami beat the Indianapolis Colts .30-10 be­tween the two losses is the worst since Don Shula took over as coach in 1970. 
Amid the desolation, there is hope. 
'This will be a great, great story when we bounce back and do a greatjob from here on out," fifth-year cornerback William 

\' Judson said. "And I think It will happen. 
"We lost our composure against the Jets and against San Diego," Judson said. 
"When you do all that you can do, you're going to get beat some time. But when you make a mental error and let a guy go down the field on you, you feel stupid. That's high schoolish." 
He said the Dolphins need to
.,.WJ'J",?J".···-·...........JV"a-
GUN SHOW Modern & Antique Guns & Knives 





..................._L...s...................a................a.. 

The Observer Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 1.3 

Freeman now starting in new offensive role 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI "If you are going to be good," Senior Sports Writer said Yelovlch, "you have to have the fundamentals." Yelovich 
Most people resist change Ini­carries a wooden stick at prac­tially, but eventually find that the tice, often Inserting It In the things turn out for the better. space between linemen in order That Is exactly the story of Notre to measure line splits. "Freeman Dame left guard Tom Freeman. has a great attitude, good work · 
Freeman, a 6-4, 265-pound habits, and a tremendous effort. senior, came to Notre Dame as Like all of our linemen, he is still a defensive lineman his fresh­in a learning process, gainingex­man year, but did not see varsity perience fast." action. Gerry Faust then had a The Irish offensive line ap­suggestion. peared to be a question mark 
"At the end of freshman year," before the season began be­said Freeman, "I was at cause of the lack of experience, linebacker when Coach Faust but Notre Dame rolled up 192 first asked me to move to the yards rushing and 455 yards offensive line. I liked defense total offense against a highly­though, and at the time I thought touted Michigan defense, and I had a better chance to play .341 yards total offense against there. Michigan State. 
"When we returned after sum­"People forgot that last year, mer, Faust told me that I would the second team offense moved have to beat out Byron Spruell the ball and scored against The Observer/Jim Carron and Tom Rehder to play on Purdue, Penn State, and Miami," Tom Freeman, who came to Notre Dame as guard. Mike Szymanski features the ver­defense, and after the first week said Freeman. "I knewweworked a defensive player, has found himselfa spot satile senior at right. of practice, he decided that I was well as a group. We were smaller in the starting lineup on offense at left needed on the offensive line. than Michigan but those teams "He told me that I would never are huge compared to the rest make it if I continued to rebel. of theschedule. Right now, I am
II 

Not being the type that makes the smallest at 265 after Rehder trouble, Freeman accepted his moved up. new duties, and he has not Part of the reason for Notre looked back since. Dame's offensive success Is the 
II

"I changed my goals, said new, Innovative offensive Freeman, "now I really enjoy the schemes of Lou Holtz and Com­position. It takes great concen­pany. "It was very confusing at tration since you have to think the beginning when they threw about every move. It takes more the whole offense at us In three control than defensive play, and days," said Freeman, "but It be­the precise nature ofthe position came a matter ofpracticing over is a challenge for me.II and over again. 
Generally speaking. defensive "We used to have a quick and linemen are mean, slightly a strong side, where the strong crazed, Intimidating players on side would switch according to the field, but Freeman does not the tight end. Now, only the tight see them In that light. end switches, thus you get to 
"They don'tscare you, because know the person your hlocklnH vnu rnntrnl tho .n.FF~---'" ···-_._ -~-···-· _............ you race him a day. It is easier to then make ad­
ourjob the right way, we feel no justments accordingly.
one can stop us as Michigan "Our biggest asset Is our en­
learned." SMU noseguard Jerry thusiasm as a unit, we have to
Ball, Outland Trophy and Lom­work In order to win, people do
bardi Award candidate, Is re­not give up just because we are
garded by Freeman as the best Notre Dame. It is easy for people
player he will face. to get discouraged, but It has not
Freeman brings added quick­happened. In a way the two
ness to the run-blocking game losses have helped us to work
as his main attribute. "For me, harder than we would have If we
the biggest thing I need to Im­were undefeated.
prove is technique," said "Coach Holtz told us that the
Freeman. difference between us being 2-0
Fortunately, Notre Dame of­and ranked fourth in the country
fensive line coach Tony Yelovlch Is two plays."
Is a stickler for technique. 
•
a un1que opportunity for 

-Civil Engineers ­


For you and the world itself. As a Peace Corps volun­teer, you can put your degree to work at a challeng­ing. demanding and unique opportunity. You'll be meetin~ new people, learning a _new language, ex­perienCing a new culture and ~ammg a whofe new outlook. And whilt> you're buildmg yourfuture, you'll help people in developing countries plan, design. and construct roads, buildings, sanitation systems, dams. bridges, canals or other structures which are critical for meeting their econom•c needs. 
Interviews: Sept 29 & 30 in the PIa cement Office 


~~----­

--. ~..>;.'· # ••• -.. • ·-----·--·---·-----------~--------------------.. 
:i,i, 
Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 14
The Observer 


,j 
l 
1 
Notebook 
continuedfrom page 16 
two months off of that. I'm so anxious to play but I have to be calm and realize it will all come one day." 
For now, Jefferson will have to be content with running through block drills and working with the prep team to give the Irish defense a look at their upcoming opponents. Although there is not much real contact involved -Jef-' ferson's knees still lack some of the required strength for that -It is has been encouraging never­
theless. 
"It feels great to get back In and run the plays, for there was always that thought lingering in my mind that I wouldn't make It 
back." said Jefferson. "I have an­other year of eligibility now and I have thought about coming back constantly. A lot will depend on how I do this year." 
What about the fumble against Michigan? 
"I don't see It In my dreams, I don't really even remember It," he said. "I guess when some· thing traumatic happens, like they say, you forget about it. I've never even seen It on tape yet. But after I get back In the game, then someday I'm going to want to see It and I will." 
That Is, If the determined Jef­ferson Isn't too busy watching the highlight tllms of his Inspir­ing comeback.

:j 
'·{ 
fXTRA POINTS -Notre Dame will i .. play before a national television /:'f audience for the fourth straight
. 
week on Oct. 4 when it travels to 

I . Birmingham, Ala. for a game with the third-ranked Crimson Tide. ABC· TV picked up the op­tion on the game and scheduled It for 2:.30 p.m. 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOWRENTING FOB FAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
MoYc i11 lx·fore 10/1/86 and .~l'( ONE MONTH FREE RENT 
Office at 120 ND Ave 
234-6647 
Call Anytime 

.....ghts ofthe Castl Men's Hairstyling $6atudent 58.50 comp 
cut style 
AWAYFROM CAMPUS 212-D312 271·1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
;Vfore;8rfOWIUO&If 


U+IAUL REFRIGERATORS 
For Rent 
$54.35 Delivered (New 2.6 Cubic ft. Models) Call 282-2801 for student rate 3410 Western Ave 


ND Apparel Headquarters  
15% OFF EVERYTHING IN STORE!  
except sweats  
Complete outfitter for intramural sports  
FOOTBALLANDSOCCERSHOES  
NIKE & ADIDAS  
D  NIKE Open Field (white) $25.00  
D  All CONVERSE Basketball shoes $15.99 (escepl the •eapon)  
SR 238 & Edison Rd.  

Mon-Fri 10-6 (across from King's Cellar) Sat 10-5 
277-7284 


2 I I Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7799 
Thursday & Friday 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2am Thursday 
9pm -3am Friday 

,____________________________ 
90(\ c,o\) $1.00 off entrance fee 
259·1900 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



~~~ttll~..............................................._....T•h•u•r•sd•a•y•'•Se--pt•e•m•be
..r•2•5•,•1•98•6•,•·•p•a•g•e•1•5­

Bioom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
I K/IOW, ~fl. !l/1/l?... 
MY 8fiT we'f(e av Pill YQ(! 
Jl16f/IIK X./5 70 II NeW HEll/( hi~ ! 
IS Of(f3ml/& CRISIS. I Pt./ITO. KlffY t!MR
\ /NTH£3
\ 
8111H77/~... 
(/ 

Proteins 
"Ooo! This is always amusing .... Here comes Bessie inside her plastic cow ball." 

Campus 
The Daily Crossw-ord 
ACROSS 1 A Williams 4 Levantine 
ketch 9:00-.3:.30 p.m.: "DIRTY BOOK SALE" dirty and damaged 
8 Smasher item 12 Simian
books. Cloth -$1. 25. Paper -$. 75. All new and recent titles, 
13 Preakness
too. Memorial Library Concourse 
winner
.3:.30-5:00 p.m: Computer Minicourses, Lotus 1-2-.3 Part 2, 
15 Polish lancer 108 Computing Center, limit 7. And JCL (Job Control Lan­
17 Contact in guage, Part 2, 115 Computing Center. To register, call Betty 
a way 19 Net
at 2.39-5604 
20 Ghana city
4:00-5:.30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, 
21 Clint of films
College of Arts and Letters, and Dept. of Communication and 
23 Scissors Theatre Lecture, "Ciuchey's Works with Samuel Beckett and 
25 "First -see the Absurdist Movement," by Robert Cluchey. Washington 
tonight" 26 Writer Grey 
Hall. Free and open to the public 
28 Property
4:.30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, Col­
appropriators
lege of Arts and Letter, and the Department of Communica­
32 "Peanuts" tion Lecture Theme: Gender and Method. "Political Theory 
sister and the Discourse of War," by Jean Alshtain, Prof. of Political 
35 Part of 0.T. 37 Copland of
Science, University of Mass., Amherst. Galvin Life Sciences 
"Rodeo"
Center Auditorium 
38 Spoken
7:00 p.m.: Presentation'Reception for Accountancy, Finance, 
39 Use a sword 

C>1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
and Economics seniors and MBA students interested in career 

42 Alphabet run 9/25/86
All Rights Reserved
opportunities with Peterson and Company, Notre Dame 
43 Let in 45 Gentleman's
Room, Morris Inn 

title 7 Jobs for Mason
7:.30 p.m.: Graduate Piano Recital by Michael Skinner, An­

46 Land between 8 Mozart's land 
nenberg Auditorium, sponsored by the Notre Dame Dept. of 

two rivers 9 Baum's classic Music 
47 Coat fur 10 Melange 7:.30 p.m.: GTE Foundation Distinguished Visiting Scholar 
50 Nothing 11 --War 52 Kangaroos 14 Thrashes
Series and the University of Notre Dame Program in Science, 

54 Render 16 Author
Technology, and Values Theme: The Impact of Science and 

harmless Buntline
Technology on Society "Technological Frontiers and Human 

58 Hanger-on 18 Warden's TV 
Integrity," by Prof. Landgon Winner, Dept. of Science and 

61 Kind of buddy series Technology Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Library 
62 Up there 22 Oil grading Auditorium 
631fly Jette~ 66 Portage item 24 Winter white 
8:00p.m.: SMC Dept. ofMusicConcertJazz Program featuring 

67 T.S. or George 27 Whitney of
department chairman Clayton Henderson. Stapleton Lounge 

68 -whiz! gins
8:10 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, Col­69 --Coburg 29 About lege of Arts and Letters, and the Dept. of Communication 70 Ko-ko's weapon 30 Rome tribunal and Theater Play "Krapp's Last Tape," with Robert Cluchey, 71 Puzzler's bird 31 Slight 
9/25/86

32 Rich soil
Washington Hall. Tickets: $6 and $5, available at Washington 

DOWN 33 Hindustani 49 Brief and 56 More tender 
Hall ticket office from noon to 6:00p.m. weekdays 

1 Good-byes language -point 57 Ger. port
9:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m.: Senior Class cocktail party, ACC 58 Bloc letters
2 Age 34 Machine parts 51 Merchandising 
Monogram Room, tickets: $4, 21 identification required 3 Low card 36-Moines ploy 59 Too bad! 4 Large desert 40 A Taylor 53 Pribllof 60 Barrett or 5 Ritual garment 41 A Scott denizens Jaffe 6 "This-44 Favored inmate 55 Customary 64 Mat win 
recording" 48 Onassis application 65 Garden tool 
$1.00 
No Food or Drinks Allowed 



--~--~---~-----­
----~-~------------­


Thursday, September 25, 1986, -page 16




SRorts 

1 ' 
ND soccer team ups record to 7-2 after 10-0 shutout of Blue Demons 
By BOB KEMPER been pretty hungry," com­junior forward Bruce McCourt Sports Writer mented Grace. "It was a great and junior sweeper Steve team effort. The only disappoint­Lowney, respectively. McCourt 1 The Notre Dame soccer team ment was that I could not sub­closed out the first half scoring upped Its record to 7-2 yesterday stitute more than seven players. at 35:15 with a goal set up by 
with a 10-0 thrashing of DePaul I wish everyone could have Morris. at Alumni Field. played today." Sophomore stopper John 
The Irish dominated the game For unknown reasons, the Guignon wasted no time in throughout, and utilized great DePaul head coach decided not joining the scoring parade as he team play. DePaul, which fell to to wave the seven-man substitu­tallied an unassisted goal 16 
2-4, trails in the series between tion limit. seconds into the second half. Be­the two schools, 5-0. The Irish controlled the ball so hrje registered his second goal 
Sophomore midfielder Joe well that play was contained al­at 7:35 with an assist by Sternberg led the scoring bar­most entirely to Notre Dame's Sternberg. McCourt then set up rage by recording the first hat end of the field. The fact that the Sternberg for his third and final trick of his collegiate career. He Irish had 35 shots on goal com­goal at 12:35. Morris added a 
added two assists to go along pared to four for the Blue pair ofunassisted goals at 2.3:09 with his three goals. Senior Demons was glaring testimony and 24:51. Senior wingback Mar­goalkeeper Hugh Breslin regis­to Notre Dame's dominance. In vin Lett added the final nail to tered the shutout. While he was addition, the Irish had the benefit the coffin at 43:59 with a goal credited with only four saves, two of 14 corner kicks. assisted by Sternberg. 
Freshman midfielder Rolfe Be­Notre Dame travels to Dayton,

were spectacular open-field stops on breakaways. hrje began the scoring onslaught Ohio this weekend for the Wright The Observer /File Photo Coach Dennis Grace was quite at 15:20 of the first half with an State Invitational. They face 
John Guignon was one of a number of goal-scorers in
pleased with the team's effort. assist by sophomore midfielder Miami (Ohio) on Saturday and "We are pretty much injury-free Randy Morris. Sternberg quickly Wright State on Sunday. 
win boosts the team's record to 7-2, and Bob Kemper 

, now, and since the setback at responded with two goals at
I 
I 
see SOCCER, page 11 relates all of the one-sided action in his story at left.
MlchiAan State the guys have 21:20 and 26:29 assisted by 

\ 
I' 
'I 
I ) \ 

Irish overcome BGU despite lackluster game 
The second game was a dis­
By RICK RIETBROCK 
aster. Bowling Greenjumped out
Sports Writer 
to a 5-0 lead. The Irish pulled to within one, but the FalconsNotre Dame head coach Art scored eight unanswered pointsLambert must be happy that it is on the way to a 15-5 blowout.
not always whether you win or Notre Dame
lose, but how you play the game. came back with 
possibly Its best game in theHis volleyball team posted a four­third contest. Several well-placed
game triumph over Bowling 
shots by freshman setter TarynGreen but looked less than im­Collins led the Irish to a convinc­pressive doing it. 
Ing 15-6 victory. 
Lambert went even farther in Notre Dame appeared to be ondescribing his team's perfor­its way to another big victory in mance. 
the last game but a scrappy per­"This was probably our worst formance by Bowling Greenouting of the year," he said. I made the game into a thriller.
can't think of anyone who really 
The Irish jumped out to a 7-3
had a good night tonight." 
lead behind Zanette Bennett'sThe sloppiness showed at the quick start but the Falcons came
very beginning of the match. 
back to assume a 10-9 lead.
Notre Dame fell behind early, 3­The game stayed tight the rest7, because of poor timing on at­of the way with the Irish gettingtacks and several missed serves. 
clutch game point side-outs atThen Kathy Cunningham 14-15, on a Cunningham kiltbrought the Irish back with a se­

The ObserverI Juslin Smilh and at 15-16 on a Mary Kay Wal­
ries of kills and dlnks that put

The Notre Dame volleyball team was not in a match played yesterday. Rick Rietbrock ler kill.
the Notre Dame in front 1 0-8. 

impressive, but played well enough to pull has the story at right. The Irish finally came away
The Irish went on to post a 15-10 out a four-game victory over Bowling Green victory. see IRISH, page 11 
Holtz steps up work on kicking game 
Notre Dame kickers Dan Sorenson, John Carney, (and State blocked one punt and watched as Notre Dame back Alonzo Jefferson. Steve Beuerlein) no doubt had a tough time watching missed another field goal and sent a quick-kick sput­Almost a year ago to date, moments into the second half of Notre Dame's season-opener against Michigan,
the game films this week of their respective specialty tering 15 yards to set up Spartan scores. the 5-9, 179-pound reserve player lay on a stretcher
units' performances in the loss to Michigan State. These miscues proved to Holtz just how important But not nearly as tough a time as did the punter for it was to get his special teams ready. And the fact that in Michigan Stadium, his knee ligaments torn up from the Pittsburgh Panthers, who probably saw enough in the next Irish opponent, Purdue, had a 95-yard kick the helmet of a Wolverine player. Jefferson had been 

his nightmares of his unit's effort against Purdue to fill return to go with its three blocks last week. only attempting to recover his bobbled catch of the second­half kickoff, when his knee met the striped headgear
up a season of film sessions. strengthened his resolve. "The first time (Purdue) went after the punter I 
of the Michigan player. At the time of the fumble, Notre Dame was clinging
thought they had broken the young man's leg," said an incredulous Lou Holtz, when asked his opinion about to a 9-3 lead. Michigan, however, went in three plays
Marty 
later to take the lead, and then held on for a 20-12

I : 
the Boilermakers' stunning punt-rush team that blocked three Panther punts In the game. "They had upset of the Irish.

Burns 
The prognosis for Jefferson, at IE>.ast 18 months of

hit his leg before he had even touched the ball. I just have never seen a football team get pressure on a Football Notebook rehabilitation after surgery, was disheartening for the long-time reserve player who was figuring on a real
punter like Purdue did." shot at the No. 1 tailback slot In 1986 after the gradua­
The Pittsburgh kicker actually suffered little more "Our kicking game will never be challenged like It tion of Allen Pinkett. To make the whole affair even
than a bruised leg to go with his bruised ego and will this week against Purdue," Holtz noted. "The pres­more sad, that day last year was Jefferson's 20thbruised confidence In his blockers. And though Holtz 

sure they put on the kicker Is just unbelievable, and
is not certain whether the Boilermakers' effort was due birthday. (Purdue kick-returner) Rod Woodson has already Tuesday, however, on the practice fields behind the
more to a good relationship among the Purdue rushers returned one for 95 yards. On the third punt-block. ACC, Jefferson was allowed to resume practice with the
or a bad one between the Pitt kicker and his teammates, they didn't even block it. They were in so fast the guy team -six months ahead of schedule. It was a re-birth

he Is taking no chances. didn't even try to kick it-and he was on his own 8-yard of sorts for the fiesty little player who, even while in­
"I feel much better about our kicking game now than line." jured, always took an active role in practices by offering
I did last Sunday," he said. "We have worked very hard It Is not understatement to say that on Saturday there encouragement and support.

on it this week in practice." 

will be two (maybe three?) Notre Dame kickers who will "I always kept the deep drive to get back in It and I
The kicking game has become an area of immediate 

be very grateful for the extra time spent this week In always knew I would make It" said Jefferson. "''m six
concern this week because of the critical mistakes and practice working on the kicking game. months ahead of schedule but I'm still trying to knock
problems that have occurred in the two Notre Dame losses. Michigan capitalized on a muffed kick-off return Perhaps nobody has learned the painful lesson of 
see NOTEBOOK, page 14

and a missed point-after-touchdown try, while Michigan how Important the special teams are than senior tall­


' ' 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.---­



