
~~-~~---., 
Divestment -page 7 
j 
----~ ­

Vol. XX No. 102 Friday, February 28, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
The Observer/Paul Kramer 
March for laundry 
A male student makes the long trek out to St. Michael's Laundry to pick up much-needed bundles ofclean clothes. Despite the sun­shine yesterday, Todd Waffner found the walk from St. Michael's to Holy Cross Hall a "cold spin. " 
Scholastic eliminates SMC editor position 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Staff Reporter 
To "increase the efficiency of the production schedule," the position of Saint Mary's editor at Scholastic magazine has been eliminated, said the magazine's editor-in-chief, Jim Basile. 
"We had to change our produc­tion system over break. I didn't like the way it was mnning," Basile said. 
Although Saint Mary's students will still take part in the production of the magazine, it was not feasible to have both a Notre Dame and Saint Mary's editor covering Scholastic's stories, according to Maher Mouasher, Scholastic's general manager. 
"It was inefficient to have two people on stories, there was too much overlap," said Mouasher. 
Although her position as Saint Mary's editor no longer exists, former editor Barb Blanchette still handles many of the same editorial duties as well as serving as produc­tion manager, Basile said. 
"Barb is still in charge of recruiting people from Saint Mary's who can work in business, art and layout," Basile said. 
As production manager, Blan­chette handles photo assignments and layout of the magazine, while still working to encourage Saint Mary's students to participate, he said. 
Because the College does not have an equal number of students as Notre Dame, coverage of Saint Mary's events will become more unified with Notre Dame coverage, according to Mouasher. 
"Since we don't have an equal number of subscribers from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, we can't give equal coverage," said Basile. 
"We really don't want to give Saint Mary's 'token coverage,' " ad­ded Mouasher. 
Scholastic has gone beyond covering campus events at both schools, and both Mouasher and Basile consider it to be a "general interest" magazine, they said. 
Because of this, the magazine covers a wide variety of stories, such as women in education at Notre Dame minority issues at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and major political events, Basile said. 
"We aren't a newspaper, we don't specifically cover Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. We cover wider things, such as politics and medical issues," he added. 
Candidates in ND elections 
cite campaign plans, goals 
By FRANK LIPO and THERESA GUARINO 
Senior StaffReporters 
Student body presidential and vice presidential elections Tuesday feature seven tickets, a substantial increase over the past few years. 
"Attitude, programming and finances," are three areas that the Jim Domagalski-Laurie Bink ticket plans to address. 
"Do students get their $35 worth (of the student activity fee)?" Domagalski said. "The response we've been getting is no." 
Domagalski and Bink said they plan to gain respect by having stu­dent support behind their ideas and seeking student input beforehand. "We first must gather the support of students in order to gain the respect of students and the ad­ministration," he said. 
Drug users get help on campus 
Counseling and Psych Services helps ND 
By ALEX PELTZER to-one basis. Hut since most Copy Editor students who use drugs also use alcohol, they often are involved 
Whether a student seeks help with alcohol counseling groups, at Notre Dame for a drug pro­she said. blem voluntarily or through referral from the Office of Stu­
dent Affairs, he or she would Drugs at .. 
find the help in the same place the Counseling and ND/SMC 
~~l

Psychological Services Center. L--~§._J
But while counseling is available at the center, there is "I do include referred student no specific program for drug in SOAP groups so they can get users, as there is for alcohol. some information on other 
"There's no specific program kinds of drugs," Cronin said. at this time in an organized set­SOAP, Students On Alcohol ting," said Peggy Cronin, Problems, is a group program alcohol and drug counselor. much like Alcoholics 
She said most counseling for Anonymous, in which students drug problems is done on a one-get a chance to discuss their 
Saint Mary's shows little need for services 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
Copy Editor 
No Saint Mary's student ever has undergone mandatory counseling for drug use, accor­ding to Dorothy Feigl, acting vice president of the College. 
'IThere has never been a refer­ral," said Feigl, ''where the stu­dent has had to go (to counseling)." 
She said no teacher or ad­ministrator could use counseling as a method of discipline against drug users. "Counseling here is very professional," she said. Feigl said counseling for any matter remains confidential ". . . as it does in any counseling operation." 
"Counseling services here are student-centered," she said. "The whole tendency is to reach out to the students, working for their interests." 

"We expect to get along with the administration, not as students to administrators, but as equals respective of each other's position, working to achieve goals that are best for the student body, as well as the administration's," according to the Thomas Grier-Steve Guenther ticket. 
The ticket mentioned three priorities once elected to office: a restructuring of parietals regula­tions and penalties, on-campus "21" social gatherings, and the for­mation of an ethanol research com­mittee. 
"Flashy platforms and colored posters don't mean much," said Guenther. "People should be aware of quality, not quantity." 
"Establishing and utilizing all the avenues of communication and of student input" is a goal of the Bruce Lohman-Jim Crandall ticket, said 
The Counseling and Career Development Office, staffed by one full-time and three part­time counselors, is directed by Dr. Mary DePauw. DePauw was out of town and unavailable for comment. 
Feigl said rectresses and resi­dent assistants inform the dean of students when a drug offense comes to their attention. That individual is Mary Anne O'Don­nell, who was busy with matters relating Sophomore Parents' Weekend this week and was unavailable for comment. 
The Alcohol Education Office is available for students with questions or problems relating to abusive drinking, according to Molly Sullivan, the part-time counselor at the office. 
"I am a substance abuse counselor," Sullivan said. She works 10 to 12 hours a week at the office. She has worked there 
alcohol-related problems. Cronin said she would like to have some kind of formal set­ting such as SOAP for drug counseling. 
"My only quarrel is that it's been my experience that the message is more clear when they can talk to one another," Cronin said. "They laugh a lot, make jokes." 
She said she thought the re­cent incidents, where drug­related problems caused suspen­sion, may force the administra­tion to create such a program. 
She said what is talked about in any counseling is strictly 
see DRUGS, page 4 

Lohman. Lohman said his ad­ministration would encourage any student to walk into his office and have input. He said he would steer such students into the right channel for action and would encourage them to pursue ideas themselves. 
"There are existing University committees" which can handle stu-· dent concerns, said Lohman. Lohman said his administration would understand the system and push the right button for proper ac­tion. Using proper channels and not just loud rhetoric would best serve students, Lohman said. 
The ticket of Mike Millen-Sheila O'Connor is "completely against an increase in the student activity fee," according to Millen. He said com­plete financial reform is necessary for student government. "Few peo­
see PLANS, page 4 

for three years. "I introduce myself as a person available to deal with·problem drinking." 
Sullivan said most of the students who come to her just have questions. ''They are refer­red to me through RAs," she said. However, she said some of the students are counseled for disciplinary reasons. 
"We put out a number of publications. But, the people who come to us aren't necessari­ly alcoholics." 
Sullivan said it would be possible to offer drug counseling through the Alcohol Education office. "We ad­ministered a survey and includ­ed questions about drug use. We tried to make it visible that there are other drug problems." 
Sullivan said she could offer counseling for students who smoke pot. But she said she has never seen anybody for drug use. ''They don't show up for it." 
The Observer 
Of Interest 

The Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP will meet tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns. All are welcome. ­
The Observer 

Allen Ginsberg will be holding a workshop tomorrow at 2 in the library lounge. N.Scott Momaday will hold a seminar both at 9 a.m. and and 1:30 p.m. on Monday in the library lounge. The workshops are part of the Sophomore Literary Festival spon­sored by the Student Activities Board. -The Observer 
A debate among the student body president candidates will be held Sunday night at 6 in the library auditorium. The event is sponosred by the Ombudsman election committee. -The Observer 
The art of students who participated in the 1985 Red­bud Summer Workshops will be exhibited in the Hammes Gallery, Moreau Hall on the Saint Mary's campus from March 1 to 21. This exhibition will include the drawings, prints, pottery and photography created by 18 students during these intensive two­week workshops. -The Observer 
A rally sponsored by the Anti-Apartheid Network will be held today at 4 at the Administration Building. Speakers will in­clude Basil van Rensburg, a South African priest from Cape Town on sabbatical at Notre Dame, Soweto priest Buti Tlhagale, a Kellogg fellow, and John Dettling, student member of the South Africa Ad Hoc Committee of the Board of Trustees. -The Observer 
This year's Ethnic Festival Parade in south 
Bend, which carries the theme "It's a Small World," already has more than 60 units slated for the July 5 festival spectacular. Ap­plications are still being taken for the remaining openings. For in­formation, call Rick Kring at 282-1378. -The Observer 
An important general meeting of the Com­
munity of the International Lay Apostulate will be held Sunday night at 6:30 at the Center for Social concerns. A Mass will be held in Breen-Philips chapel at 4:30. CILA invites newcomers to attend. -The Observer 
Weather 

00 0 
0 0

Winter strikes back! Her weapons 'I 
include a 40 percent chance of snow showers today with highs near 20. Parly cloudy and cold tonight with lows in the low teens. Partly cloudy and warmer tomorrow with highs in the upper 20s. 

o.lp&Ukw.. ., ...........~lbft Mcl••plln V......,CoJ&UIIItw.--.Sw:Duabu" 
Dalp~----·····-··-Alla: ICfOC8e1' 

Vlnlflol..u...,out-...._,,,....aab a.rto!O. ,.._,.,Stllfl..........,_,,,.........Mart Cbek ,.,..,CopyUlkw..............,s.aa Moore T~.....,......._ ...., ......,......,.PIIl OMk 
,..,..,.r...,-t____,MDMd•'lblm Cbucki.W. Plplnlka NDDll}llltltlor......................8llyD M-m 11.-llllllor············-·····CIDdy lbudlbont 
SMC D4]1llllllor.................,...,}aD Sully CopyUlkw., ............................. Tripp a.IIZ AdDafBn.....................................,Je.e Pau Spor1t Copyl!dltor........Erlc Scbuc:mwm Fn:dNdloa SJ»CCIIIl6yout......................tmraGroaek Alliloft l'mmlboA 
PIJolotJrrlllMr..................... l'lwl ~ 
The Observer ( l'SPS 599 2-~000) is published Monday through Friday ext·ept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published hy the students ofthe I 'niversity of Notr~ Dam~ and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for J~O per year ( JlO per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~6556. 

The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
ff:St"'"Vf:d. 

r 
r 
Look who's 19 today. 
SUZANNE 
Our Baby Girl 


Happy Happy Happy Love, Mom and Dad 



The Observer Friday, February 28, 1986 -page 3 
Tylenol precautions already taken on both ND and SMC campuses 

By ROB HENNIG 
News Staff 
Precautions have been taken on both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses in lieu of the re­cent Tylenol scare in the New York area, which prompted health of­ficials to ban Tylenol capsules in Indiana and other states. 
Saint Mary's Shaheen Bookstore removed all Tylenol from its shelves prior to the state banning of capsule sales, said bookstore spokesman Barbara Racine. 
"We pulled it as soon as the first story broke out about the death," she said. 
According to Brother Conan Moran, the Hammes Notre Dame bookstore manager, the bookstore did not stock Tylenol in any form before the incident. He said he doe3 not intend to stock Tylenol in the immediate future. 
The Student Health Center at Notre Dame also does not stock Tylenol. 
"We've never carried Tylenol," said Carol Seager, director of the center. She added, however, "If so­meone comes in and particularly re­
.,.._ 

ND worker wins $3 million lottery 
APPhOio 

Newest world's oldest 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
Anne Williams became the oldest person in the world when a News Staff /20-year-old Japanese man passed away last week. Williams, now aged JJ3, was three years old when Custer died at the Little "2-9-20-21-35-38. I'll never forget Bighorn. them," said Notre Dame employee 
Bob Krauser of the winning Illinois 


You're the man in charge. And l9~ cah handle it. Because the Navy has "kiven you the management and technical training to get the job done. 
Thirty men report to you. And what you do includes the care and responsibility for millions of dollars worth of sophisticated equipment. 
At age 22 you can be a leader in the Navy. With all the decision-making authority you need to help you match up to your responsibility. 
NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER. 
The rewards match up too. A solid starting salary of $19,200 with regular promotions and increases. Responsi'bility and rewards. It's the way you measure success in the Navy. 
A Navy representative ~·ill be at the Government Career Fair on March 6, 1986. Plan to drop by to discuss options which are available to you. 
Or, you may call ahead for additional information, toll-free, at: l-80J-382-9Ll04 
quests Tylenol, we can get it for 
them." Gloria Chelminiak, director of the Saint Mary's health service, said the service never has carried Extra Strength Tylenol, but continues to stock Regular Strength Tylenol. She said the health service doctors have not asked that other forms of Tylenol be removed at this time. 
Anyone with Extra Strength Tylenol capsules should return them to the pharmacy where they were purchases, chelminiak said. Jim Goshert of Broadmoor Drugs in South Bend said the pharmacy there is exchanging capsules for caplets. 
Goshert added there is a toll-free number set up by Tylenol manufac­turer Johnson and Johnson for anyone with questions. The number is (800) 237-9800. 
JoAnn Widerquist, assistant pro­fessor of nursing at Saint Mary's, said the Tylenql scare poses poten­tial problems for community health. "If people in general can't trust the packaging, that brings all medicine into question," she said. 
She added, howevet, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's probably 
lottery numbers which netted him $3.17 million in the Feb. 12 draw­ing. 
Krauser said he purchased the winning ticket at Way-Low Grocery in Michigan on U.S. 31. "I played every week when I got up that way. I've always played the same numbers," he said. 
Krauser, 61, said he will official­ly retire in April after 38 years of service at the Notre Dame power plant. "Until then I will be on vaca­tion," he said. 
The money will be put in a trust fund for his two children, a daughter who graduated from Notre Dame in 1982 and a married won't be affected in any direct way. 
Most people are not abnormally affected by the incident, according to Sheridan McCabe, associate pro­fessor of psychology at Notre Dame. "Some people don't think about it, others dont buy Tylenol anymore," he said. 
William Tageson, associate pro­fessor of psychology at Notre Dame, said a copycat effect takes place when someone imitates the ac tions of others. "Sometimes the media can unknowingly foster this type of activity (by sensationalizing the news)," he added. 
"Somebody who is really paranoid and angry at the com­pany" (Johnson and Johnson) could be the culprit, Tageson said. It might be somebody who was fired or had another grievance against the company, he said. 
Tageson indicated the motive would be "getting revenge upon the company." He included not just the manufacturer, Johnson and Johnson, but also distributors or warehouses as the potential victims intended by the culprit. "I'm sure that they somehow justify it to themselves," Tageson said. 
son, he said. "There won't be a new house or a Cadillac," he said. 
Krauser said he has gotten over the initial excitement. "Not much has changed. I can retire earlier, outside of that not much is dif­ferent," he said. 
After validating his winning ticket, he received the first of 20 $127,599 annual payments. 
And he'll continue to play the lot­tery. "I wouln't make a special trip though," he added. 
"I enjoyed my job at Notre Dame. If I hadn't I would have been fired or quit," Krauser said. 
cordially invites 

Seniors 
to Memorial Library Auditoriuin 
on Monday, March 3 

at 7:00P.M. 
Meet our executives and en;oy refreshments. Tell us about your career goals and hear about the exciting Executive Development Program at Lord & Tuylor, America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as a career, you may want to know about the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and a record 
l
of achievement, and look forward to the challenge of managing a profitable business in just three years' time, 
i
L-----------Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. 1
, 

The Observer Friday, February 28, 1986 -page 4 
Becker, Scheuermann selected for top Observer posts in 1986-87 
Kevin Becker, a sophomore Program of Liberal Studies and computer applications major, has been selected managing editor of The Observer, and Eric Scheuer­mann, a junior accounting major, 
has  been  named  business  
manager.  
A  native  of  New  Orleans,  

Becker joined the newspaper at the beginning of his freshman year by working in the production department. 
In March of his freshman year, Becker was promoted to assistant Viewpoint editor. He has served as a regular Viewpoint columnist since arriving at The Observer. 

Plans  
continued from page 1  
~ r t, r r, r r r  ple realize it, but thousands of dollars are being improperly budgeted and poorly used by both the SAB and student government." "There's money there (student government's budget) doing nothing," he said. "Thousands and thousands of dollars are being left unused." "It makes no sense for Student  
Activities to have an endowment," Millen said. Millen said true stu­dent opinion must be discovered and research must be done to deter­mine the strengths and weaknesses of plans. Only then should plans be taken to the administration, he said.  
Drugs  
continuedfrompage 1  
between the counselor.  student  and  the  
..Confidentiality is very im­portant here," Cronin said. "There are many pre­professionals who are often worried that it would 'come out.' What they say in there stays in there.'' She said it is often hard for  
people to tell if someone is hav­ing a problem with drugs. Some are able to hide it better so it ap­pears it is not affecting their lives, she said. "People think if you're using stuff you'll go down hill. That's not always true," said Cronin. "It's just sitting down there waiting.'' She said that the problem often surfaces later in life. "Maybe if we can cut that time down so they don't get their lives messed up," she said. She said most students do not want to quit using drugs when they come to her. ''they don't want to talk about whether they should or shouldn't. We talk  
about what it's doing to them," she said. She said most people she counsels are men. "I think it  
reflects the attitude about young women at a Catholic universi­ 
ty," she said. "They ought to behave in a certain way. That doesn't mean they do.''  
WANTED:  
Macintosh 512  
computer and printer  
CAN TRADE:  
Apple II Plus computer  
~II manuals  
~xternal drive  
I will trade and/or buy call Pat 234-5813  

The managing editor controls the daily operations of the newspaper and implements long­range improvements within the newspaper. 
"The Observer has become a much more professional newspaper over the last few years. I fully expect that progress to con­tinue," Becker said. 
"Our goal is to instill a team concept in our staff, to promote a united effort in serving the com­munity, and to open our organization to more students," Becker concluded. 
"We are serious candidates," said Don Montanaro, of the Mike Switek-Don Montanaro ticket. 
As for the most pressing issue facing students, Switek said, "We wonder sometimes -would a true Hungarian eat Hungarian Noodle Bake?" 
"We propose continuous restruc­turing of student government," said Switek. "The administration can borrow our crayons whenever they want to (referring to their cam­paign posters)." 
Looking into the possibility of fraternities, sororities and coed dorms are three goals mentioned by the Mike Torkelson-John Kromer ticket. "Just about any other university in the country has a social life," said Torkelson, "not just on campus, but off." 
Scheuermann, a resident of Stowe, Vt., has worked at The Observer since his freshman year. He has served as a sports writer, sports copy editor, assistant sports editor and payroll clerk. 
"I would like to continue to im­prove the financial recording and reporting practices of The Observer. I hope to run the business department in an effi­cient manner, striving to give the students the best newspaper at the lowest cost," Scheuermann said. 
Becker and Scheuermann will assume their new positions April 2, 1986. 
"We want to spend our time rebuilding student life instead of student government," he con­tinued. In their "quest to return stu­dent government to students," Torkelson said he and Kromer are fasting ''to show our solidarity with the student body.'' 
"Our first priority is to place every man from The Big Red in the Office of Student Affairs. People, ask not what can I do for Notre Dame, ask yourself, what can I do for Dillon Hall?" said the John and Patrick Walsh ticket. 
Of their relationship with the ad­ministration, they said, "it will not be physical, it will be purely platonic.'' 
Student body elections will take place Tuesday in each of the dorms and LaFortune Student Center. 

CHEERLEADING TRYOUTS 
CHEERLEADING  TRYOUTS  
CHEERLEADING  TRYOUTS  
CHEERLEADING  TRYOUTS  

All ND/SMC undergrad students Interested In being a cheerleader or leprechaun for Lou Holtz's opening year as well as an exclflng basketball season, there will be a MANDATORY organlzaflonal meeflng SUnday, Mar. 2 7-8 pm In the ACC Football Auditorium. Addlflonal quesflons? Coli Tom Swaykus, 283-4512 
CHEERLEADING TRYOUTS CHEERLEADING TRYOUTS CHEERLEADING TRYOUTS CHEERLEADING TRYOUTS 

f/ ~ 
A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student 
for the 
Distiaguished Student Award 
•

IS 
Friday, Feb. 28 
Nomination forms are available in the Campus Ministry Office Memorial Ubrary, the Center 
for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 
~ ~ 

__.,.___

with l{d"ll:'n Stonnunt a:--.l'rn•>rx·n J 
THURSDAY FEBRU4RY27 FRIDAY FEBRU4RY28 SATURDAY MARCH 1 

Tickets $6 ME1n Floor SS Balcmy $4 Slurlents 
THURSDAY MAFCH6 

Available at Washinston Hall 
FRIDAY MARCH 7 
AthleliC & Cotwot.aiiOfl Center Gate I() 

SATURDAY MARCH 8 Group ~bit.. Av•it.ble 
For Tld<et lnformatKJfl Ca/1(219)239-5134 
(219)239·5957 
8:10p.m. 


!:i1affiM,:.fB·.-­


Shrimp, Shrimp and Steak 
'Attorneys of Taste' 

12 Jumbo fantail shrimp dinner  4.99  
6 Jumbo fantail shrimp & steak dinner  5.49  
18 Jumbo fantail shrimp dinner  6.99  

EXPIRES 5-1-86 

r~--~-~-----------------------, 
~~ SOt off/75¢ off 1 
. I betw.een 11 pm to 6am 1 
I ANYSANDWICH, FRIES I I & DRINK COMBINATION I
I 
I

1 (student I.D. required) EXPIRES 5-1-86 1 
~-----------------~----------JI I 
$1.00 off any Dinner I I with Drink I 



~--~~E~~~~~~~=~~:~~·:____~ 

~--------~-----~--------­---~----~------~ 
SHOULD NOTRE DAME DIVEST? Hear both sides of this controversial and urgent issue  
DEBATE TONIGHT!  
Inform Yourself for ,the Referendum MARCH 4th Prof. Peter Walshe (Director of African Studies) Fr. Oliver Williams, C.S.C (Prof. of Management) DATE: Tonight (Friday, February 28) PLACE: Center for Social Concerns TIME: 7 p.m. CANDIDATE tHIS WILV DEBATE && Jt.. f'A\R­ec..ec.-rtor-C Come see the candidates for Student Body Offices debate the issues which affect YOU! DATE: Sunday, March 2 PLACE: Library Auditorium TIME: 6:00 p.01. ·STUDENT GOVERNMENT·  

1 
1 
, 
,1 ,~ 
~ 


---~ -~-----------~-----~--­

Accent 

Friday, February 28, 1986-page 6 
Memorial a place to reflect on costs of war 

this modern version of Stonehenge. see that there were no complaints; rived at' the 12th station, where the I hear it denigrated as a waste of and inspected his feet that they Saviour gathers the millions of vic­money, a contradiction to the com­should be worthy of the nails. I see tims of war, the atrocities, and
Father Robert Griffin 
mitment to peace, an encitement to to it fhat he is dumb and stands at famine; and Kilroy was one of our vainglory, a glorification of battle, attention before his accusers. With own.
Letters to a Lonely God 
an extension of the old lie: "Dulce a piece of silver I buy him every et decorum est pro patria mori." It day, and with maps I make him · The war memorial should be an is sweetly and seemly to die for familiar with the topography of awesome and holy place, where 
Catholic pacifists are a rare Wars are mainly fought by the one's country. Golgotha." veterans gather as witnesses for breed who should indeed, as young. Eighteen yeai olds are What sense of beau geste sends something as simple and old­
Elie Wiesel also saw God involv­
peacemakers, be called the children drafted into service. The Biblical the brave and careless off to the ar­fashioned as patriotism. Fifteen
ed in the sufferings caused by the 
of God. The Church has a place account of Abraham consenting to my as adventurers and daredevils, years ago, as students wrestled over
Nazi atrocities: "The SS buried two 
for them, and one shouldn't mind if put Isaac to the sword is sometimes patriots and doomed, dutiful the heartbreak of Vietnam, I notic­
men and a boy before the assembl­
they drift onto the Notre Dame read as an archetypal story of youth? Has grim Necessity written ed that the ROTC candidates were
ed inhabitants of the camp. The 
campus with their splendid pro­fathers submitting to the will of the a law in their natures advising them wrestling also. All those finely­
men died quickly, but the death phetic visions. In the meantime, the gods of war. A number of parents, that they have been designated as struggle of the boy lasted half an tuned consciences were searching country goes on spending itself to during the Vietnam war, were at the newest lambs for the slaughter? for a view of the truth they could
hour. 'Where is God? Where is he?' 
death for bombs and other horror odds with their own flesh and Do they think they are entering a live with. The graces of idealism
a man behind me asked. As the
blood. I remember some of them game, for which, as winners, they were evenly distributed among the
weapons. Sooner or later, as boy, after a long time, was still in 
everyone knows, there will be a saying:"My generation's had its war will be awarded crowns of glory? peaceniks and the cadets who got
agony on the rope, I heard the man 
nuclear disaster, of major qr to fight. My father's generation had Dying, as so many have, surely to classed with the "baby-burners".
cry again, 'Where is God now?' 
relatively minor magnitude, a war to fight. Now it's this genera­God they die for their country, for It's the same way now. Some
And I heard a voice within me 
because of accidents or tion's turn to defend the country. I reasons, other than sweetness, that, upstaging goes on among those try­
answer, 'Here he is -he is hanging
carelessness. The deaths of seven would be ashamed of a son refusing are not ignoble? Would truth be ing to dismiss Stonehenge with con­
here on the gallows." 
to do his duty as a soldier." The better served by a slogan proclaim­
astronauts in the space program tempt. The _purpose of the prove that there can never be pacifists were hated for insisting ing it is a tragic mistake for them, On the far side of St. Joseph's memorial is to remind the campus
r enough backup systems to prevent that the fallen heroes had died in or anyone, to die for his country? Lake stands Calvary, the 12th sta­of the classmates going before who 
r errors in the elaborate programs vain, in useless appeasement of the The 20th century has been the tion depicting Christ hung on the became heroes. It seems shabby
r human beings devise. I don't know bloodlust of the warmongers in bloodiest in history. Even the so­nails of the Cross. In Him, through and second-rate not to feel pride
r 
how or when mankind will ever get love with death. The heroic tradi­called privkged nations have shed Him, with Him, God enters the and gratitude to the dead who were
r 
rid of the scourge of war. Peace tion prefers to view them as victims much blood in the passiontide of darkness of bleeding and dying, in faithful to the call of duty, which
r 
movements seem as doomed to offereing themselves in sacrifice, war. Wilfred Owen, out of WW I, spiritual and physical solidarity told them they had to help the 
! r 
failure as the children's crusades giving up their lives so that the na­was so embittered J:>y the wholesale with the centuries of the world's country against its enemies. were. Evil keeps building new em­tion can live. Any cynic will tell you slaughter of his friends on the fields crucifixion. In the terrible decades pires which gobble up countries that there's no such thing as a good of France, that he verged on of the modern age, filled with un­
which are turned into prisons. The war or a bad peace. despair, as his poems attest. He precendented horrors, God as a 
idealism of the pacifists doesn't All this is ancient history, likened the pain of warfare to the sufferer has gone before us to the 
Because of technical dif­discourage the cruelty of dictators. almost. Yet memories of the suf­pain of Christ: "For fourteen hours heart of darkness. Raw kids have ficulties, this week's episode ofEventually, the peace-loving na­fereings brought by Vietnam stay yesterday I was at work -teaching bit the dust of foxholes and "The Gipper's Ghost" does not
fresh. Christ to lift his cross by numbers, beachheads, and Christ's grace has
tions have their backs to the wall. 

appear in today's paper. TheThey end up fighting wars as the The new war memorial on the and how to adjust his crown, and been there waiting for them. Notre series will resume next Friday. 
fieldhouse mall is nearing comple­not to imagine his thirst until the Dame's equivalent of the Wailing
lesser of two evils. 


r r 
r r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
tion. I feel strongly committed to last halt. I attended his supper to Wall will remind us that Kilroy ar-

Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our farge, contoured beds are over 7 feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) can for appointment 277~ 
Open 7-9 Mon-Frl &-8 saturday 
4986 
[F~~$~ ~-tdlo~7Ut 
Slarr4'1 &at. Allen CliDJb.erg 
Slarrlf 2 hn. N. &cntt aomabau 
Slarclf 3 .Alan llugan
.Dll. 
Slarrlf 4 mut.s. jlargQ)Uuer Slarr4 5 •ma. &oualb &ult.entc~ &.egal 46 mttura. C!XIauton &lfl.eman rclJ7 .J!rt. Jlobert Qtormt.er 
.IJIIIDU•Imlll Jlru 
.............................................~ 

w~e <!lolnnial 'ancnke Jlnuse 

$1.00 OFF 
OUR SPECIALTY OVEN-BAKED APPLE PANCAKES 


OR 
OMLETTE 
WitbTbisAd
Burgers Sports 12-9 $3.50 Pitchers 
them sweats for one and all. Do you think we've found our style? 
Chili&: 
Chips  
Happy Hour Big-Screen Sports 5-10  Happy Hour 5-10  Happy Hour 5-10  
3.50  wine  $1.50  margaritas  
draft  tasting  import  ..upside down  
pitchers  $1.00  beers  shots  

'Styles--women wearing men's undies, men wearing baggy, flowered shorts, pants with stirrups to keep tucked in, shirt­
tails left untucked, neon colors, tennies in all places and styles, 
perfumes with names we can actually spell and God bless 



Sculptors of imagination 
Sophomore Literary Festival brings eight authors to campus 

MARYJACOBY 
assistantfeatures editor 
A Urising campus authors watch 
out, because the Sophomore 
Uterary Fesitval begins Saturday 
with a chance to hear and meet 
eight established literary figures in a 
week-long series oflectures and 
workshops. 
The festival opens with an ap· 
pearance by modern poet Alan 
Ginsberg, whose writing was a 
direct inspiration for the Beat 
literary movement in the '40s. "Allen 
Ginsberg is probably the most 
well-known ofall the speakers this 
year," Ann Peters, fesitval chairman, 
said. Peters said also that Ginsberg's 
appearance Saturday would be his 
third at Notre Dame. 
Ginsberg first became known in 1945 with the publication of"Howl and Other Poems," a long-line poem styled in the manner ofWalt Whitman which became an em­bodiment ofthe Beat movement. The Beats, more popularly known as the Beatniks, were a group of poets and novelists such as jack Kerouac, author of"On the Road," who wrote in the language ofthe streets about previously unmen· tionable topics. Poets Gregory Corso, Michael McClure and Gary Synder were other prominent mem­bers ofthe movement. 
Ginsberg, who has worked as a book reviewer, a market researcher and since 1971 as the director of the Committee on Poetry Founda­tion, was born in Newark, New Jersey. He received his bachelor of arts degree from Columbia Univer· sity in 1948. Among the awards Ginsberg has received are the Gug­genheim Fellowship in 1965 and the National Book Award in 1974. 
Other Ginsberg publications include "Kaddish and Other Poems," "Mostly Sitting Haiku" and "Plutonium Ode and Other Poems." His most recent work is the 1985 publication, "Scenes Along the Road." 
Appearing Sunday is N. Scott Momaday, whose first novel, "House Made of Dawn," won a Pulitzer Prize in 1969 while Momaday was a professor ofEnglish and comparative literature at the University ofCalifornia, Berkely. 

Born in Lawton, Okla. ofa Kiowa father and a French and Cherokee mother, Momaday grew up with a keen sense ofheritage. He com· pleted undergraduate studies at the University ofNew Mexico in 1958, receiving his master ofarts degree from Stanford University in 1960 and a Ph.D. from Stanford in 1963. 
Momaday is also the author of "'Ibe Gourd Dancer" and "The Way to Rainy Mountain." 
Allen Ginsberg 
Poet Alan Dugan, a current staff member for the Poetry and Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, Mass., will speak Monday. Dugan's first anthology, "Poems," was published in 1961, garnering both a National Book Award and a Pulitzer Prize. Many of Dugan's other poems, which frequently deal with topics ofeveryday American life, have been published in magazines such as The New Yorker, Atlantic and Harper's Magazine. 
Mary Oliver, poet in residence at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Penn., will appear Tuesday instead ofthe previously scheduled Mon­day in order to fill a slot left open by fiction writer Kay Boyle, who can­not attend tho.: festival because of illness. 

Oliver was born in Maple Heights, Ohio, in 1935. She worked for some time as a secretary to the sister ofpoet Edna St. Vincent Mil· lay. In 1972 she served as chairman ofthe writing department at the Fine Arts Work Center, the same organization with which Dugan is currently associated. 
Oliver received the American Academy Award in 1983 and a Pulitzer Prize for her book of poetry, "American Primitive," in 
Alan Dugan 
1984. Other works by Oliver in· 
elude "No Voyage and Other 
Poems" and "Twelve Moons." 
Two authors, Ronald Sukenick and Lore Segal, will present a joint presentation Wednesday. A native ofBrooklyn, N.Y., Sukenick is a novelist, critic and short story writer who uses irregular line spacing and other unorthodox techniques to suggest physical detail as well as more complex ideas. 
Sukenick received a bachelor of arts degree from Cornell University and his Ph.D. from Brandeis Univer· ~ity, teaching for some time at City College and Sarah Lawrence in New York. He has received a Fullbright 
Fellowship in 1948 and a Guggen· 
heim Fellowship in 1976. Some of 
his most popular works include 
"Up," "Out," "98.6," "Long Talking 
Bad Conditions Blues" and "The 
Death of the Novel and Other 
Stories." 
Sukenick is presently an English professor at the University of Colorado, Boulder. 
Segal, a writer ofprose, poetry and children's literature, was born in Vienna, Austria, in 1928. She holds a bachelor ofarts degree from Bedford College, University of London. Segal has taught at at Columbia, Princeton University and Sarah Lawrence. At present Segal is a professor of English at the Univer· sity ofIllinois at Chicago Circle. 
Among the awards Segal has received are the Guggenheim Fel· low.ship in creative writing in 1965 and the American Ubrary Nouble Book Award in 1970. Her main publications include "Tell Me a Trudy," "Other Peoples' Houses," "All the Way Home" and "Lucinella." Segal has also con· tributed stories and poems to such magazines as The New York Times Book Review, New Republic, Atlan· tlc and Hudson Review. 
Native Hoosier Clayton Eshleman will be the featured speaker Friday. Now living in Los Angeles, Esh· Ieman is the current editor ofSulfur magazine, which is published by the University ofCalifornia at Los An· geles Extensive Writer's Program. 
Eshleman received a bachelor of art.'\ in philosophy and a master of arts in English from Indiana liniver· sity in Bloomington. A recipient of the Guggenheim Fellowship in poetry in 1978 and the National Book Award in translation in 1979, Eshleman has published the original works "Fracture" and "Hades in Manganese." 
The festival's closing speaker is Robert Cormier, a native of Leominster, Mass .. who has worked as both a reponer and free-lance writer in addition to his occupation as a novelist. 
Cormier won the American Library Association Award for hnoks for young adults in 1974 and is characterized by many critics as an author whose best work is directed toward young adults. Cormier's novels include "The Chocolate War," "I Am the Cheese," "After the First Death" and "Beyond the Chocolate War." 
Among other awards Cormier has won are the top prize for news writing for the Associated Press in New England and The New York Times' Outstanding Book ofthe Year Award in 1974, 1977 and 1979. 
This year's guests were chosen by fesitval committee members, each ofwhom made suggestions and considered suggestions from faculty advisors Connie Mahre andJohn Matthias. Among the authors con· 

see 2 

Happenings-page 2 Friday, February 28, 1986 

r 
~ 
r 
r
, 
"Sukenick's prose style is fast, nervy, exciting, ' work... Oliver is clearly a poet who matters." 
is impressive declarative intelligence evident in Oliver's like Mailer and even Kerouac at their best." 

,r 
-Robert DeMott, Western Humanities Review Southern Humanities Review

, 
r 

, Festival
r 
r r continuedfrom page 1 r 
tacted who were not able to attend 
~ 
are Kurt Vonnegut, Alice Walker, 
r 
Anne Tyler, William Kennedy, Joan Didion and John Updike, who did, however, express an interest in 

in the future. 
The festival was begun in 1967 by a sophomore interested in having various literary figures speak on campus. Attending the first festival were Joseph Heller, Wright Morris, Ralph Ellison, Granville Hicks and William F. Buckley. 
All lectures will begin at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium, except for Momaday's appearance, which will take place at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium 'at Saint Mary's. Workshops will take place the day following individual lectures except for the Ginsberg workshop, which is scheduled for Saturday at 2 p.m. and the Segal workshop, which begins at 12:15 

p.m. Wednesday. Cormier's work­shop will begin at 11 a.m. instead of the usual 12:15 p.m. Mornaday will have two workshops: one at 9 
a.m. and the other at 1:30 p.m. 
SMC sophomores have a weekend also 
CAROLINE GILLESPIE 
features wriier 

Bear hugs will be rampant begin­ning today as parents descend on Saint Mary's for Sophomore Parents' Weekend. 
According to Shari Gillig and Patricia Murray, SPW chairper­sons, everyone is very excited and all the events will go as scheduled. 
"Most of the planning was done by Patricia and I," Gillig said. "We set up five committees which peo­ple volunteered for and so far, everything has gone O.K. We haven't heard any complaints yet and I think we can promise a fun weekend for both the students and their parents." 
Registraton for both students 
and their parents begins at 2 p.m. 
today and continues until 6 p.m.
r 
The Sophomore Class Production then begins at 9 in Angela Athletic Facility. The production is a talent show in which students themselves 
r participate. 
r 
Tomorrow begins bright and ear­
,r ly at 9 a.m. with a chance to play tennis, basketball or any other sport that Angela Athletic Facility has to offer. Angela will be reserv­ed from 9 to 12 p.m. for the more active parents and students. Late arrivals can register between 9 a.m. and 12 noon tomorrow. From 10 a.m. to 12 noon, "A Taste of the Arts," a display of sophomore students' art work, will show in Haggar College Center. Tomorrow evening's activities begin at 4 p.m. with Mass at the Church of Loretta. Then the action moves to the Century Center with a cash bar beginning at 6 p.m. At 
7:15. Gillig and Murray will welcome tne parents and students, emphasizing this year's theme, ''That's What Friends Are For." 
n Hickey, acting president of Saint Mary's, will also welcome the Sunday which goes from 9:30 until students and parents. 11 a.m. in the dining hall. 
Dinner begins at 7:45 p.m., The weekend promises to be an followed by the dance scheduled to active one. Gillig said she didn't begin at 9:30. know the exact number of par­
Sophomore Parent's Weekend ticipants but that she is expecting a comes to a close with the brunch on good show of people. 
FULLER HORIZONS 
l'l)RD PRCX:!ESSTN:;/SErnETARIAL SERVICES Pick-up/Delivery and Disconnts Available SPECIALIZING IN: 
Dissertations -'1heses -Reports Sb.rlent Profiles -Resl.lrleS -!etters "Professional papers at affordable rates" 219-291-5556 
.---~----------------~----~~~-­

• 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE 1033 LAKE STREET 
NILES, MICHIGAN 
616/683-7474 

a Notre Dame, Saint Mary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

JVSTASKANYONE! 
"'The Chocolate War' 
is surely the most un­
compromising novel 
ever directed to the '12 
and-up reader' -and 
very likely the most ne­
cessary." 
-Richard Peck 

N. Scott Momaday 
"When he has finished. 'House Made of Dawn,' the reader. .. has ldis:cm1erE~d a whole new perspective on American life ... " 'dl d
-JohnRi an 

MARRIOTT'S CHEF BARRY RUMSEY'S 
March Special 
CHICKEN BREAST VENTURA 

$8.95 


Enjoy a delicious Chicken Breast Ventura dinner to include: 
With this coupon Breast of chicken filled with cream cheese, bacon and olives,
$1.00 

topped with a rich sauce, 
OFF 
served with 
ANY DINNER 

blended wild rice and vegetables.ENTREE 
Dinner includes 
Expires March 31, 1986 
Soup and Salad Bar 
0 

Offer Expires March 31, 1986. 
SOUTH BEND ~ClrrtOtf HOTEL 
123 N. St. Joseph St., South Bend, IN 46601 (219) 234-2000 
Happenings-page 3 Friday, February 28, 1986 


Bankrupt millionaire pedals to new career 
P.A.CIMINO Put simply, "Quicksilver" is a good film. It is well-paced, enthusiastic, entertaining 
features writer 
and uplifting. Still it does have some flaws.

What happens when a millionaire stock The opening is disjointed and filled with trader loses everything in one fell swoop scenes lacking dialogue and explanation. 
during an unforgiving day at the market? 
The audience is left to surmise for itself He picks himself up and starts agains, right? 

what is going on. This lack of explanatoryNot so for Jack Casey; he opts for the background information continues through­more simple world of a bicycle messenger. 

out the film to the extent that various re­With this slightly unorthodox catch, Co­lationships come and go with no enlighten­lumbia Pictures hopes to utilize its newest ing facts other than some facial expressions. 

vehicle, "Quicksilver," to win a few races at These expressions, while strongly portrayed, the box office. 
are visibly inadequate and could greatly be Movie review~ enhanced with some dialogue. The ending is also a little strange and the whole plot 
Quicksilver 
has the effect of leaving the moviegoer hungry for something more.

··~ (out of lour) 
On the other hand, the acting is worthy of 

"Quicksilver" is the story of Casey's phy­merit. Bacon is at his usual best and con­sical and psychological defeat and his sub­vincingly entertaining. He has handled sequent attempt to come to grips with his troubled characters excellently in the past possible futures. Set in an unqualified and continues this convention. He also city (location footage was filmed in New engages in numerous frames of exciting York, Los Angeles and San Francisco to cycling which he trained for extensively and create a non-specific urban setting), the wheeled through himself. story begins with Casey (Kevin Bacon of "Footloose" and "Diner" fame) on the floor Bacon is joined in the film by Jami Gertz of a stock exchange using his magic touch in (from the short-lived TV show "Square an attempt at influencing options trading Pegs") and Paul Rodriguez (from the sim­through a non-traditional maneuver. ilarly transitory "a.k.a. Pablo"). Forget 
His ploy backfires terribly and leaves him Gertz. Her part is not worth a tire patch and bankrupt. At the same time his parents' her acting belongs in a seldom-watched savings are irretrievably lost. This fact sets sitcom. Rodriguez, in contrast, is marvelous up a touching scene where Casey confronts as a latin messenger with his feet on the his father with the disrupting news and ground and his head in the clouds. His and ultimately forces upon him the reali­character is thruthful and serious. Rodri­zation that he has literally been playing with guez is also able to add a spark of comedy fire for the last three years. in the mix which helps him mold a figure 
Destitute and dejected, he walks the city which brings Casey back in touch with the streets (seemingly for days) until he spies facts of reality. a used bicycle in a thrift shop and decides On the whole, "Quicksilver" is high­to become a messenger. What follows is geared entertainment and certainly worth a a truly interesting view of the relationship trial run. And if nothing else, it can serve between the internal workings of man's as a fine alternative to spinning one's mind and the external influences of his sur­wheels uselessly in neutral on a boring rounding environment. evening. 
-

The Scoop
Art ~I 
Theater 
• The Notre Dame department of com­• Edgerton's Travel Service hosts 

•Continuing in the O'Shaughnessy East munications and theater presents "Life The 4th Annual World On Sale Travel • The Notre Dame department of com­Gallery of The Snite Museum of Art Is a Bed of Roses" tonight at the Annen­from 12 to 6 p.m. Saturday in the Great munication and theater presents Shake­is the exhibit "Richard Stevens: Recent berg Auditorium. Fanny Ardant, Gerald­Hall and River Le;vel Suites of the speare's "The Tempest" tonight and to­Photographs" Stevens' new works ine Chaplin, Ruggero Raimondi and Century Center. The show features morrow night in Washington Hall. 
are photographic studies of folded paper, Vittorio Gassman attempt to re-exper­representatives from airlines, cruise lines Robert Stormont, a professional actor stones, glass and assorted objects printed ience their birth traumas, setting the and tour companies as well as films, guest from Chicago, will play the part of Pro­on conventional silver paper. The work stage for director Alain Resnais' inter­speakers and door prizes. Admission is spero, a magical duke in search of hisexplores how ritual feeling can arise from esting flights of imagination into the past is $3. 
brother. Tickets to "The Tempest" cost objects, arrangements and light. Admis­present and future. Tickets to the 7:30 $6 for main floor, $5 for balcony and $4sion is free. and 9:30p.m. shows are $1.50. 
for students and are available at the door. 

• The Bengal Bouts start Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. Reserved ring­side seats are $3, general admission tickets are $2 and a pass for all three 

Movies 
bouts is $4. Tickets may be obtained at the door or at the Notre Dame ticket 
• The SAB presents "Life's a Beach" a office. 

• The Student Activities Board presents pre-spring break party from 9:30p.m. to • The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart 
"Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome" 12:30 a.m. in South Dining Hall tonight. eThe SAB and the Around the Corner Church this weekend will be:
tonight and tomorrow night in the En-
Free sunglasses, sun tan lotion and beach Club host Undergraduate Night at the Father Ausin Collins at 5 pm. (Sat­gineering Auditorium. Starring Mel balls will be distributed as well as a grand Alumni Senior Club Saturday night urday night vigil). 
Gibson as Mad Max and Tina Turner prize of a trip for two to Ft. Lauderdale, from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. Refreshments as Aunty Entity, the deadly ruler of Bar­Fla. The band Cold Drinks will perform, will be provided, and the band Cold Father George Wiskirchen at 9. a.m.
tertown, "Mad Max: Beyond Thunder­and refreshments will be served. Admis­Drinks will perform. Admission to the Father Edward Malloy at 10:30 a.m. 
dome" is the third film in the Mad Max sion to the event is free. event is free. 
and 12:15 p.m. 
series. Civilization has been destroyed and a new society has risen in the desert, 
The schedule for confessions in Sacred 
a phoenix born of man's primitive past Heart Church is: and the remnants of modern technology. 
Monday through Saturday at 11:15 a.m.
In a thriving market city called Barter­Monday through Friday at 5 p.m.
town anything is subject to trade -a sip Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
of water or even a human life. The show­Saturday onl~ 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt 
place of the Thunderdome, a circus of justice where differences are settled 
Stations of the Cross are on Fridays
and the public entertained. A geometric during Lent at 7:15p.m. in Sacred Heart arean, its code is simple: two men enter, Church. 
one man leaves. It is here that Mad Max Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15p.m.
battles Buster, a hulking giant, in an in the Lady Chapel. 
attempt to get his camel back. Admission The rosary is said daily at 6:45 p.m. atto the 7, 9 and II p.m. shows is $1.50. 
the Grotto. 
______________________________ -___j 


.--------------------------------:-------------­
Happenings-page 4 Friday, February 28, 1986 
134 brands of beer the star at this Haus 
though some of these people look
JOHN AFFLECK 
like they've been sipping on those
features writer 
huge drafts for the last 15 years.
Good beer and bland food Between the beer and the bar,describes Hans Haus pretty well. 
Hans Haus gets a definite thumbsHans Haus has an impressive up.
collection of 134 different brands What not to go to Hans Haus for of beer, not including domestic or is dinner, unless one really likesCanadian brews. Whether it's soup. The soup at Hans Haus isHombre beer of Guiness, most of hearty and tasty, but the salads arethis vast selection is affordable, at all lettuce and the main coursesleast to try once. 
aren't particularly appetizing,For those tired of bottles, Hans either.
Haus provides an alternative. Huge Looking at the menu is similar to 33-ounce drafts of Augsburg, a Monty Python sketch in which all Michelob Light and Dark and the dishes in a cafeteria includeseveral other brands of beer are spam as part of the meal. Hansavailable for $1.75. Good deal. 
Haus' menu looks like this:Winer Schnitzel, Schnitzel Milanaise,The Bar Beat Scnitzel a Ia Holstein Schnitzel Schnitzel and Schlacht Platte. 
!? HansHaus 
I went with the Schlacht Platte, which consisted of different
~ ··~ (outoffour) 
sausages, bratwurst, a potato pan­
Hans Haus is actually a com­cake and red cabbage. The meats bination pharmacy, liqor store, were like bad hot dogs. Evidently restaurant and bar. The restaurant, Germans use no sauce on their bar and liquor store are all con­food, so to make things worse there nected. That is, food is available in was nothing to kill the taste of this the bar, though the main dining stuff. room is separate from it, and one Fortunately, I had my 33-ounce can look directly into the liquor Augsburg within easy reach, so I store from the bar because the two was able to finish a good part of my rooms aren't separated by a wall. plate, anyway. Still, it was not one 
As may be expected, Hans Haus of the great South Bend dining ex­is a German restaurant and bar. periences. John Hans, the owner, opened Forget the food, though. With a Hans Haus 43 years ago and now clean, well-lighted bar and a great runs the establishment with the selection of more than 150 beers, help of some family members. The who need to eat? German character of the barroom To get to Hans Haus, drive south gives the place a nice atmosphere, on U.S. 31 and go through the with its quasi-Bavarian look and business district. About two miles long, low ceiling. after that Hans Haus will be on 
There's also the standard bar­your left, located at 2803 S. room television set, and clientele Michigan. It's a hike, but worth the who are inoffensive enough, trip every so often. 

-
FRAN NORTON 
features writer 
Last night in Washington Hall Director Mark Pilkinton presented his rendition of Shakespeare's "The Tempest." Above the title should have been placed the phrase "Based Loosely Upon." 
One should not alter Shakespeare to this degree. Does one add a few more brushstrokes to the "Mona Lisa?" Attach arms to the "Venus de Milo?" Add a few more curves to Marilyn Monroe?" No.To bor­row a phrase: "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." 
As written, "The Tempest" ex­plores the thoughts and actions of a group of castaways There are three main subplots, all of which are con­trolled by Prospero, the exiled Duke of Milan. He is a very wise man, who through devotion to knowledge has harnessed the forces of nature. Last night, he seemed more of a weak, ranting despot. 

The first major subplot concerns a pair of lovers, Miranda and Fer­dinand. She is the daughter of Pro­spero, and has been raised on the island; he is the son of the king of Naples. Last night their romance suffered from over-direction. 
On stage --tl\li 
The Tempest _---~ 
' 

The second subplot deals with the plotting of two lords to seize control of power. The third subplot mimics the tragic action of the se­cond, substituting a fool and drunken butler for the devious lords. These suffered from miscasting and extraneous cheap l;mghs that were added by the director. 
In Shakespeare, it is the language of the play that captivates and car­ries the audience. In this produc­tion, that language was ignored, implying that audience was too ig­norant to appreciate it. Instead be­ing allowed to present itself, the play was contorted into a melange of differing styles that all oppose each other. 
Even the first scene, a storm at sea, appears to be more of a Felliniesque nightmare. At times I was unsure as to whether I was wat­ching "Godspell," "Brigadoon," or "The Gong Show." Variations of style can be done with Shakespeare. the film "Forbidden Planet" and director Peter Brooks have demonstrated this. However, this production proved more of a sideshow than "The Tempest." 
AROUND THE CORN~P 
1beObserver/Drew Sandler 
Ferdinand (Joseph Zonies),Prospero and Miranda (Denise Blank) 


Nl TCLUB 
Come to Tivoll's 
St. Patrick's Day Party for United Way Drink specials: ALSO: Party Favors 50c Green Draft Beers Irish Buffet 


13()13 f3412~1:12 
$1 Shots of Schnapps Non-alconol Drinks 

$1.25 Mixed Drinks TUESDAY, MAf<CH 4, 8pm
-
March 17,1986 9pm-3am $5donatlon 

ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM
tickets on sale soon 

Locatedon U.S. 33 N. at North Village Mall Free Admission -No Ticket Required 
277-1.877 

••,_,()U W()O~t ff)l""f!et 
•• 
-

------------------------~--,_,__
_ 
View~_O_l_·_n_t___________F-rid...;ay.;..,F-eb-ruar...;y-28.;...'1-98-6....;p....;;ag~e7 

Vote for divestment 

The battle lines are drawn. 
The Notre Dame administration is sticking by its conviction that getting rid 
of University investments in companies that do business in South Africa will 
hurt more than help that blacks that are victims of the oppressive apartheid 
policies of that country's government. 
The Anti-Apartheid Network, among others, continues to call for Notre 
Dame to live up to its moral commitment as one of the leading voices in 
Catholic America by divesting. 
Tuesday, the question goes to the students. On the ballot next week, along 
side the student body president and class officers election, will be a referendum 
on whether the University should or should not divest its South African in­
vestments. 
Students are being asked their opinion on this complicated issue. Is it better 
for the University to continue holding investments in South African companies 
in order that effective social change can be made from the inside, as Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, University president, contends? Or would it be better to 
make a statement against the racist policies of that country by getting out? 
Not an easy question. 
The Observer believes the constructive engagement policy embraced by 
Notre Dame's South African investments policy does not work. Contrary to 
what Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees claim, it is not helping the welfare 
of the black workers in that country. Indeed, it is adding to an unjust system 
based on the theory of racial superiority. 
Last fall, the Anti-Apartheid Network called for the University to divest if the South African government had not taken steps to end the apartheid system by Feb. 1, 1986. That deadline has passed. With it perished the hopes of millions of oppressed blacks, as did an opportunity for the University to live up to its Christian commitment. It's no longer a moral issue. It's a travesty. 
Students should support the divestment referendum. If the Unversity's students call for divestment, the University will have to listen. Universities and colleges across the country will listen, as will state legislatures, city govern­ments and private businesses. The world will know that the students of the most visible Catholic university in the United States want social justice. 
Vote yes to divest. 
-The Observer 

Dear Editor: 
In the past day I have "een asked by many people who I support in the current election. Many are correct that I have strong feelings about the election, but I must add that I do not endorse any particular candidate. My feelings are strong in the sense th;l.t I want it to be a fair election, and that I want the best person to win. As well, I would like to see the students take it very seriously. There.js quite a range of candidates, and very different op­tions as to the direction student government will take. Many of the candidates would make an excellent leader, but all are very dif­ferent. 
While the posters on the walls and the platforms may make the candidates seem very similar, there is a great opportunity for the students to view each candidate as an in­dividual and to see what type of person they are: On Sunday, March 2 at 6 p.m. the can­didates will participate in a campus-wide debate in the library auditorium. I encourage 
Doonesbury 
all students to attend and ask the candidates tough questions. The type of leadership chosen can make a very real difference at Notre Dame and you can as well by forcing the best candidate to the top of the pile. 
This election is not just one for those who have chosen to seek office, but for you, the typical student. The student body president represents the students in the Campus Life Council, to the administration and to the Board of Trustees. These avenues of student input are serious and you should be serious about who you send. Take the time to find out about all the candidates and then make the choice for the best person. It will be then that you can personally say: I put that person there, and he answers to me. 
For all the seniors, don't forget to vote. For the candidates, good luck. And for everyone," remember the debate Sunday. 
Bill Healy Student Body President 

Administration should divest from South Africa right now 
It looks as though the Notre Dame ad­The issue is not whether our divestment ministration is not paying much attention to will bring the white government to its knees. the March 3 deadline of the Anti-Apartheid It would be nice, but it is absurd to think that Network for divestment from South Africa. our disinvestment will end Afrikaner The Network's petition gave until Monday domination of the peoples of South Africa. for the dismantling of apartheid before the We should divest because it is the right thing University will be asked to divest. Some of to do. my own thoughts on the issue: First of all, divestment shows a symbolic 
support for the black struggle in South Africa. This is surely consistent with theKen Kollman Notre Dame adminsitration's positions on civil rights in the past. And on issues such as aboration and the arms race, the University
no easy solutions 
has not only taken a stand, but has also acted in a way more powerful than just press releases and speeches. 
It is about time Father Hesburgh stopped Secondly, the "lever" to affect change that comparing the present conditions in South the administration claims that WesternAfrica with the American situation during business has in South Africa is not working.
the civil rights movement. The comparison Real reform is not happening. Hesburghis flimsy. First, our Constitution and system claims that we lose whatever power we haveof government was never in question, as it when we divest. The truth is that whateverremains in South Africa. Instead, we ques­power we have is imaginary, and to believetioned our behavior and sought a solution that slow reform will dismantle apartheid iswithin the political framework. 
a pipe dream. What is important is who con­Secondly, our civil rights movement was trols much of the business in South Africa,for the protection and advancement of which leads me to my next point.
political rights and power for a minority The civil service in South Africa is one­people. The South African government trolled almost solely by Afrikaners. Businessseeks to maintain and secure oppressive is controlled by both Afrikaners andpower over a majority people. 
English-speaking whites. Already, theFinally, apartheid is creating far more business community is becoming vocally ac­violence and outrage among South African tive in the struggle to dismantle apartheid,blacks than in the United States. In other and the group with the most to lose with the words, the South African black today sees destruction of white power is the Afrikaners, his or her situation as more intensely not the English-speaking whites. Somehopeless, particularly the youth. 
business leaders even maintain that business As a result, their violence seems full of would be better under "one man, one vote."
desperation and despair. The chosen So further divestment would have themethod of execution for black collaborators good effect of driving a deeper wedgein the South African black urban ghettos is between the Africaners who control the civil burning alive, consisting of a gasoline-fiJied service and the english-speaking whites whorubber tire around one's neck, called ''the would retain their wealth even witn thenecklace." I don't think American blacks in demise of apartheid. The English speakers the 1960s saw such drastic measures as the could carry on business more or less as usualonly way out. Many South African blacks with a wider consumer market. Thedo. 
Afrikaners would lose everything that theyIfHesburgh wishes to make a comparison, gained when they established apartheid. 
maybe the rhetoric of the Botha regime and while divestment would not destroy thethe civil rights leaders seems similar, as evil of South African apartheid, it still gives ironic as it sounds. Bothaspeak consists of an effective sign of disapproval from anterms like "minority rights," "joint respon­important Catholic institution in this coun­sibility," "mutual respect," and "cooperation try. Both symbolically and practically, thisand development." These ridiculous is the kind of move that raises awareness andeuphemisms now used by the South African lends support. 
government stood as ideals in the United Contrary to what hesburgh told us lastStates twenty years ago. 
week in Howard Hali, the Anti-ApartheidOur Notre Dame administration con­Network's proposal of divestment aftersistently backs away from divestment, and March 3, 1986 is the correct reaction by theHesburgh uses his experience in the U.S. civil University. Peter Walshe is right when herights movement to show similarities (which, says that the administration should stop allas I hope you have surmised by now, hardly this "moral posturing." It is time to act. 
exist). Besides drawing comparisons with Divest now! 
our own nation's history, Hesburgh tells us that if we divest, the Germans and Japanes Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and will buy up our investments. That is hardly government major at Notre Dame and a the issue. regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Garry Trudeau 
8UT.5ENORt /1./HO{ANfAU.. A5te&PIN 7Hl3 MlfJI?te OfTHe PAY?  JES(}s, I 70UJ >tv, YOtJHAV/3 70SIHPIN 5HJFT5!7H&Re AREN'r&NOIJ6H BW5T060  I TH(}{Ijf{T OKAY. 5/. BUT 7HCRE'f?8C 50 yo(; 71£Y!:AIP WT5 CF APPI)E/? I HAIJN'T 8C/?5/N fO?. A5Y­8WJ TDR­IJJM 7lJRtl), 7HAT .. 1PMACJ&  /A/HAT 5CNOR? NOW, JeSIJS? I  IT'5 CRAZY! TURN HOU/ OIP ONTH£ JIJL.IOIGl£­5/A5eVE:F.. 68TAGREtN CAR!)?! I  Quote of the day "One cannot collect all the beautiful shells on  
the beach."  
Ann Morrow Lindbergh  
(1906-)  
"Giftfrom the Sea"  


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ...... " .. "·······""""""" William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager ............... " ............. Jim Hagan The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager ··"·····"·······"Anne M. CulliganNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the s.int MllfY's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager··········-'···"·"""·· Mark B. Johnson adm1n1stration of etther Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sports Editor ............................. " ............Jeff Blumb Production MenageL......... •••••••••• John A. Men nell 
o> 

s•ble. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Com men· Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is Viewpoint Editor .... ".................. . . ...... Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf campus. through leners, IS encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
-~­
--------~ 
The Observer Friday, February 28, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
The ND women's tennis team will travel to West Lafayette, Ind., this weekend for a meet tomorrow with host-school Purdue. The competition is scheduled to begin at noon. -The Observer 
Potential 1986-87 cheerleaders are asked to at­tend a mandatory informational and organizational meeting Sun­day from 7 to 8 p.m. in the ACC.football auditorium. For addi­tional information call Tom Swaykus at 283-4512 or Dena Heisler at 284-5067. -The Observer 
Steve Wenc has been named as commissioner of Bookstore Basketball XV. Sign-ups for the tournament will be on· Sunday, March 9. More details will appear next week. The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will hold a meeting Monday at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. All current members and anyone interested in joining the club are asked to at­tend. For more information call Kevin Laracey at 283-1148. 
The Observer 
Century club pledge cards ~st be returned to the NVA office by today. For more informatiol\ contact NVA. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a gneral meeting Tues­day at 7 p.m in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Building. All members are reminded to bring their checkbooks in order to pay for dues and sprin break. for more information call Patricia Worth at 283-2759.-The Observer 
A wrestling tournament has been organized by NVA. The tourney will take place March 4-5. Weigh-ins will be held Monday from 7 to 8 p.m. Proof of insurance is required at that time. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
A natural-gas explosion sent a ball of name through the Milwaukee Brewers' new spring training clubhouse yesterday, injuring 10 people, including Manager George Bamberger and General Manager Harry Dalton. Third base Coach Tony Muser and plumber Jeff Sutton were seriously burned. 
AP 
The ND men's tennis team will travel to Iowa City, Iowa, this weekend to take part in the Iowa Quadrangular Tourney. Other teams competing in the tourney include Iowa, Iowa State, and Northern Illinois. -The Observer 

!!lriJIJDIJ: 18\ftl!fll c;J\i' fJtllta~lliJ18 
DRAFT SPECIALS •
SATURDAY Come dance the night away at 
"The Club", all are welcome~ 

Wrestling team travels to Missouri to compete in Western Regionals 
By ED JORDANICH 
Sports Writer· 
The Notre Dame wrestling team is in Springfield, Mo., today and tomorrow for the NCAA Western Regionals. The 17-school tourna­ment will determine the individuals who will advance to the NCAA Championships in Iowa City, Iowa March 13-15. 
According to Irish coach Fran McCann, this year's field should favor his wrestlers in the historical­ly strong regional. 
"This can probably be considered an off year in our regional," says McCann. "A lot of superstars from last year are gone, but there are many solid teams with good peo­ple. Northern Iowa is a top-10 team, and Indiana State will be there as well. We like to think we fit in somewhere among the first four or five." 
Irish wrestlers with the best chance of advancing appear to be the same five with the best overall records during the season. Dave Carlin, Jerry Durso, Pat Boyd, Chris Geneser, and John Krug have led McCann's squad all year and are hoping to extend their seasons with finishes in the top three of their individual classes. 
How they fare will depend a great deal upon whether or not they are seeded. Designation as one of the top four competitors in each weight class can make early-round matches easier and serve as definite confidence builders. McCann knows how important this can be for his young team, especially the freshmen. 
"Seeding will certainly be a crucial factor," he says. "Our young people will be nervous and hopefully they won't all be thrown to the dogs right away. We've handled pressure well most of the year and everyone is enthusiastic and ready to wrestle. 
"We wrestled pretty well last weekend and we're in the best shape of the season both mentally and physically. Our program is geared to face tough teams during the season and to try to get people into the NCAA finals. I'm very pleased with what we have accomplished so far. Now we can see our hard work and sacrifice pay off." 
Durso's 36-5 record is tops for the Irish and the freshman should be in the 134-pound regional final Saturday afternoon. Two other freshman, Boyd (19-18-1 at 142 pounds) and Geneser (27-11 at 167 pounds), also figure to do well, considering their records against common opponents of probable foes in Springfield. 
The Irish lineup this weekend will be the same as it has been the last month of the season. That in­cludes 118-pound Carl Hildinger (16-10), 126-pound Carlin (16-8), !50-pound Ron Wisniewski (10­10), !58-pound Dan Carrigan (12­11), 167-pound and heavyweight Spero Karas (9-12). 

Women's inter hall begins playoffs 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
As the women's interhall basket­ball season winds down, Breen­Phillips, Walsh, Farley and Lewis "A" each have clinched a spot in the playoffs. 
With only one game to go, Breen-Phillips boasts a perfect 9-0 record. Hapless 2-7 Lyons will have a chance to blemish Breen-Phillips' season when they play in a mean­ingless game Sunday. 
Lyons last played Wednesday against Badin. Badin came out on top, 39-29. At the half, however, Lyons only trailed by one. Captain Maureen Connolly attributres Badin's second-half domination to 
March of Dimes Fight Birth Defeas 
some strong defense and halftime inspiration. 
"It was a close game," Connolly said. "That is, it was close until Clare Cschwind delivered her in­spiring halftime speech: 'Let's blow 
. 'em out.' Then it was over." In the only other game Wednes­day, Farley beat Pasquerilla West, 54-33. Farley's superiority became evident by the end of the first quarter, in which they outscored Farley, 14-2. In the losing effort, Kathy Dolan led PW with nine points, while cap­tain Anne Hentzen ended up with eight. For Farley, sophomore Jane Weldon led all scorers with 21 points. Joy Smith and Janet 
Shander also contributed to the blowout with eight and six points, respectively. 
On Sunday, in addition to the Lyons-BP matchup, Lewis "B" will take on PW in a game that will have no effect on the playoff pic­ture. Walsh and Farley will also play in a preview of the first-round game between the second and third­place teams. At this point, Walsh stands at 8-1, while Farley sports a 7-2 mark. Regardless of who wins, they'll play again this Wednesday for a shot at the championship. Lewis "A" will also challenge Breen-Phillips, the team to beat this year in women's interhall, in the league's semi-finals. 

OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
CONTACT LENSES 
NAME BRAND Rep!acemer:rs & Spares SOFT LENSES 
From $19.95 ea FAST SERVICE NATIONWIDE 
EYE CONTACT . 
P.O. BOX 1266 MANHATTAN. KS 66502 



NAUGLES 
DELIVERY HOURS: 6:00 -Midnight 272-5455
24 HOUR DRIVE THRU 
501 Dlxleway North, Roseland, Indiana 
Free soft shell taco with every delivery order (thru March 7, 1986). For your convenience, the dining room will now be open until4 am, Fri. & Sat. nights. 

With special guest Saturday: The New Age Mothers Dean's is located 15 min. North on 31 (across from Pizza Hut) 
The Observer Friday, February 28, 1986-page 9 
MBA student leads by example 
Reilly finds success at Notre Datne 

By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

"Without a doubt, Tim Reilly is a real fine success story. In my seven­teen years here, his story ranks in the top two or three," comments Notre Dame hockey coach Charles 'Lefty' Smith. 
Reilly is a 5-10 right winger from Melrose, Mass. He is currently enrolled in the concentrated MBA program here at Notre Dame. 
"The low point of my years here was the day the official announce­ment was made that hockey would be a club," says Reilly. 
The club year did not take any of his eligibility, so Reilly has been eligible to play hockey for Notre Dame as a graduate student. 
However, he has had to pay for this year out of his own pocket, as his hockey scholarship expired at the end of his senior year. 
"When Reilly was a freshman, all he wanted to do was play hockey, and not much else," says Smith. "He had to be disciplined and with each year he has matured both on the ice and in the classroom. He has handled new pressures extremely well. 
"He is a great competitor and a very effective leader by example. Notre Dame and its environment have been a real asset to him. 
"The team has leaned on him for experience and leadership in dif­ficult situations," continues Smith. "He possesses excellent qualities. The way he has been able to over­come a 'bad wheel' and other adver­sities is very admirable." 
Last season, Reilly was the se­cond leading scorer for the Irish as he notched 22 goals and 39 assists for 61 points in 28 games. 
"The high point of my Notre Dame hockey career was the winn­ing of the Great Lakes Tournament my freshman year," says Reilly. 
"I am glad that I could play this year. This season, for the first time, we made some trips east. This has given me the opportunity to play in from of some of my hometown friends. 
"Hockey has helped me to adjust to the tougher curriculum here in the MBA program," he continues. "However, it has been difficult for me to keep hockey in the same perspective as before because the classes are so much tougher." 
Reilly looks back on his years at Notre Dame in a positive light. 
"My goals as an incoming freshman were to get a degree and to improve my hockey game to the point where I would have an oppor­tunity to move on to the pros," he says. 
"Now, with it almost behind me, I am very happy not only to have received a degree, but to have gone one step further with the MBA. 
"Hockeywise, there still is some room for improvement. All in all, however, I am happy with what I have and am grateful to the school for what it has given me," said Reil­ly. 
Track team returns home for meet 
Special to Tbe Observer 

The Notre Dame track team returns home this weekend after a three-week hiatus, closing the home portion of its 1986 schedule with a three-way meet against DePaul and Marquette tomorrow at 1 p.m. in theACC. 
"We should do well," says Irish head coach Joe Piane. "This meet will give us an opportunity to run some people in some different events and it will give some guys an opportunity for some wins. 
"They're (DePaul and Mar­quette) going to have some good distance runners. But we should do well, and we'll be fine in the long and triple jumps." 
One member of the Marquette squad who is familiar to Notre Dame, Keith Hanson, may not be a part of the strong corps of distance runners. Piane feels that last fall's national Catholic champion may have the weekend off to prepare for the upcoming IC4A and NCAA championships. 
"Marquette will have some of their other top people here though," says Piane. "They have a hurdler named Pat Weas and a sprinter, Tony Robinson, who will run well." 
Notre Dame's outstanding two­mile relay team will compete after qualifying for the NCAA cham­pionships last Saturday in a meet at Boston University. The team, con­sisting of John McNelis, Jeff Van Wie, Robert Nobles and Jim Tyler, clocked in at 7:24:84. 
"To the best of my knowledge," says Piane, "that is the best time in the nation." 
on Fri., Feb. 28 From 9:30pm to 12:30am for $1.00 at the door. Party is a pre-spring break bash in the 
South Dining Hall. Please dress in beach attire.--Prizes raffled offincludeing free trip for 2 to Ft. Lauderdale. Refreshments 

~--and live band: "Cold Drinks." 
~******************~
~----------------------------------------~··­
N.D. HOCKEY 

vs. North Dakota State 
....T' ....T 





··~~s ..,.•• 
Blue Line Club ~~'\.~...... • available to all ofage 
............ Come mingle with the Irish 
.... 
~ 
pions in the Bengals this year and some strong contenders emerging
Bouts 
from the Novice tournament held
continued from page 12 
last fall, the struggle to decide who Taylor, a 220-pound junior, will be will receive championship jackets looking to take the super­this year should be a wide-open heavyweight crown for the second­one. straight year. "The great thing about the 
With only three returning cham-Bengals is that everyone that par­

~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:~:: 
Saturday Night: Sunday Night: 
$3 pitchers $1 Molsens 
SOc kamlkazis 

(open 3-12:30 Sundaya) 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:~::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Next week Is Mr. D's Birthday so next Saturday Is PARTY NIGHT! 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::;:::::::::::;:::::;: ;: ::::::;:::::;:::::::::::;:::::;:::::::;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::;::::::~=;: ~ ;:: 
. 
•'~ LEE .JEANS ~•&•1•1•,
r ~~I AUDIENCE GIVEAWAYS; I ~ just by showing up for the game, you may win a­~ free shirt, pair of jeans, jean jacket, painter's 1111 I cap, baseball cap, poster, or an entire Lee jeansi! outfit! ~ 
• il ~ N.D. vs. EvansviUe '­
ticipates has a shot at the title," 
says Kelly. "Of course, there are 
always a few top fighters to keep 
your eyes on." 
Some of these fighters to keep are veterans of last years bouts and would like nothing better than to avoid losses this time around. The 135-pound division features a former champion, Anthony Bon­naci, and a semi-finalist from last year, Edward "Fast Eddie" Bornemann, while the 145-pound division contains a Novice cham­pion, Pat "Joe Man" Loughran and another semi-finalist from last year, Thomas "Thunder ami Lightning" Newell. 
Other top returners include: 125­pound senior Patrick McCormick; Frederick "Earth Dog" Ahlholm, a 174-pound junior; 154-pound junior Ted "The Truth" Gradel; and John "The Captain" Uhll, a 194-pound heavyweight. 
With the number and quality of the fighters this year, both in the ring and in fundraising, the Bengals this year could prove to be the most successful to date. 
"Being the president of the club, it has been a challenge to me to make this tournament as good and as large as I could," says Kelly. "We've sold more adds this year, and we've had more boxers come 
1 
out than ever before. In order to accomplish this, the club must surpass the $15,000 that
& Dorms involved: 
was raised and the 8,500 fans that
~ P. W., Sorln, Farley, Walsh, 31 saw the Bouts last year. 47 bouts ~ P.E., Flanner, and Kevin O'Shea's I are scheduled for Sunday night at 6 
p.m. at Stepan, with the semis andt off-campus squad I finals being held at 7:30 p.m. on 
(~=::t..·~ .. the nights of March 5 and 7, also at Stepan. A three-night pass may be
~?~.~enantsans & Alumni Assoc. ~ HALFI1ME MATCHUP 
purchased for four dollars at either 
J. iii Freshman vs. Sophomores I of the dining halls, and single \ HATGIVEAWAYS tickets may be bought for three
J 

_.,_~ TUG 0' WAR CONTEST 
dollars at th~door. 
The Observer Friday. February 28. 1986 -page 10 
Fencers strive to remain unbeaten at Great Lakes Championships 
By FRANK HUEMMER 
Sports Writer 
When the Irish men's and women's fencing teams travel to Appleton, Wis., this weekend for the Great Lakes Championships, it will mark another step in Notre Dame's quest for a national cham­pionship. Both teams currently stand undefeated as the men have compiled a 26-0 record and the women a perfect 23-0 mark. 
The Great Lakes Championships are a regional championship that originated in 1967 and is used to seed teams in the NCAAs. It places all the schools not affiliated with the Big Ten in direct competition. 
Teams from Tri-State, Eastern Michigan, Michigan-Dearborn, University of Detroit, University of Chicago, Lawrence University, Carnegie Mellon, California of Pennsylvania, Case-Western Reserve, and Cleveland State will all be on hand tomorrow. However, none of these teams is ex­pected to present quite as much of a challenge as Wayne State. 
"We should be favored to win the Great Lakes Championships besed on our won-loss record against common opponents," says Notre Dame men's coach Mike DeCicco. "However, Wayne State will be tough because our top three fencers in each weapon match up very closely to their fencers." 
The qualifiers from Saturday's Great Lakes will compete Sunday in the Midwest Qualifier. Only two members from each team in the three weapons are allowed to enter the Midwest Tournament. Further­more, five Big Ten schools, Wisconsin, Illinois, Northwestern, Michigan State, and Ohio State also send their fencers to this qualifier. All these fencers will compete, with the top eight epees, seven foilists, and six sabres advan­cing to the NCAA competition. 
The men's fencing team sends nine fencers, three in each weapon, to compete in the Championships. 
In the foil competition seniors Mike Van der Velden and Charles Higgs-Coulthard and sophomore Yehuda Kovacs should provide the Irish team with a great deal of strength. In the sabre the Irish will go with' the experience of seniors Tony Consoli, Don Johnson, and John Edwards. DeCicco thinks the contribution of the seniors has been a major reason for this year's suc­cess. 
"We are fortunate to have pro­bably the finest senior group of fencers since 1945," he says. "We have never had seniors contribute so much to our team effort. The 20 seniors work extremely well together and are a real close knit bunch of guys." 
In epee, seniors Mike Gostigian, Christian Sherpe and junior John Haugh will compete. 
"In order to have a chance at winning the NCAA's we must come out of the Midwest Qualifier with the maximum of qualifiers," says DeCicco. "Therefore, we must qualify six people, two in each weapon, and if that happens we have a good shot at winning the NCAA's." 
The women's team, under head coach Yves Auriol, will also be at­tempting to maintain its unblemish­ed record in Saturday's Great Lakes and Midwest Qualifier. 
The five women competing in the Great Lakes will be the team's talented sophomore leader, Molly Sullivan, along with senior Janet Sullivan, junior Vittoria Quaroni and Cindy Weeks, and freshman Janice Hynes. 
"It is the women themselves that have done it this season," says DeCicco. "The addition of Janice Hynes to the veteran team, along with having Yves Auriol as the full time women's coach has elevated this team to a solid unit. These girls are so together now that they are believing in their ability as a team and are really training hard. 
"The women might be a year away (from making the NCAA's because of experience. However, the way they are rolling toward it with two good weeks of training and polishing up their game, they could make a run at it." 
The possibility of an NCAA championship in both men's and women's fencing still exists and the action this weekend will be an im­portant step in accomplishing this feat. 


Grace 
continuedfrom page 12 
Takach tallied an unbelievable 29 points in the contest and was the key player in the second half for Grace. 
Alumni took an early six-point lead in the first quarter and was able to hold onto the lead until the fourth period. Steve Deem scored seven points for the Dogs, and Ken Scheurmann added 12. 
Suddenly, things started to fall apart for Alumni, as they suffered a nightmarish fourth quarter that 
found them outscored by nine points. 
"Throughout the game, both teams were shooting well," com­mented Grace coach Paul Dewent. "In the fourth quarter, the same shots that went in before weren't dropping for Alumni, and we started doing a little better with defensive rebounding. We weren't getting hurt by second-chance shots like we were earlier." 
The winner of the game on Sun­day will automatically go to the championship game against Sorin. Since Sorin is undefeated in the playoffs, the winner of this game must beat the Otters twice to claim the title. 

Campbell Boycott Ends Nationally Campbell and FLOCSign Contracts; Dunlop Commission suspends boycoHactivity 
The Campbell Soup Company is pleased to report that the eight-year boycott of Campbell Soup products by the Farm 
Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC), of which Notre Dame has been a part, is over. 
It ended February 19 when FLOC, the Tomato Growers Association and Campbell signed contracts which were the result of union bargaining between the FLOC and Ohio tomato farmers who sell to Campbell. Additionally, collective bargain­ing agreements have been signed by cucumber farmers, FLOC and Vlasic Foods, a Campbell subsidiary. 
Because of these contracts, the Dunlop Commission, the impartial 5-member body set up by the National Council of Churches to In May of 1985, Campbell and FLOC signed an understanding which paved the way for binding elections on tomato forms selling to Campbell. This gave the migrants the right to elect union representation if they so chose. 
Since the early 1950's the Campbell Soup Company has had a formal policy of endorsing and supporting organizations and agencies whose focus was to provide better working and living conditions for minorities and women in this country. 
In keeping with that policy, Campbell Soup developed a strong program of social justice for migrants, which it has expanded over the past five years. That program has included free day care for migrant farmworkers' children, health care insurance, 
oversee this dispute, announced the suspension of the FLOC­upgraded housing on farms contracting to Campbell, and the imposed boycott nationally. strongest pesticide use restrictions in the state of Ohio. 
Historically, the boycott centered on a migrant labor dispute Campbell will continue its focus on support for migrants, as well in Ohio. FLOC wanted to start a union of migrant labor there. as other minority groups, to meet the challenge and the promise Largely unsuccessful in dealing directly with the farmers who of America-the promise of opportunity, the promise of hope. employ the migrants, F~OC opted for a boycott of a major 
For more complete information on the settlement of the area processor hoping to pressure the company into collective Campbell Soup boycott, or on Campbell programming forbargaining. 
migrants, please write: Campbell Cares, Box 60K, Camden, Throughout this controversy, Campbell Soup has maintained NJ 08057. that it is not opposed to unionization efforts, but to the way in which FLOC had chosen to address the issue. 


~4CJtcJIC3l~---------------------------------------------Fr-id_a_y_.F_e_b_ru_~_y_2_8_._19_8_6_.p•a-ge--ll 

Bloom County 
FAGe rr, 8AfJY... 11fAT EAKLY, 
MY GO~ GWKIA...

EXCtnN6, G!tJPY PHA5e OF
T~ SORRY, ~lA ... 
I WANT OOT 
OUR KfUITION5HIP 15 PAST.. 
I~ 51Jff0CA11Nb! 

ANJ7 I WASN'T Mf.Afif FOR
wr... M.. ovr. 
/10 YOIJ R€ALilE HOW

THI5 UJN6-TI:Km 5TUFF... I 
l/JNb WE'Vf, KNOWN

WA5 BOKN 70 RUN, 8A8Y. .. 
Zeto 
Berke Breath~d Far Side Gary Larson 

5GAjP.I~ 
:-Aet<!;
lf-0 MINVTE5. 
AIR/
I 
Kevin Walsh 


ACROSS 1 -Cinders 5 Training 
exercise 10 No-play 
advances 14 Barrier 15 Gr. phlloso· 
pher 
16 Network of nerves 17 Solidifying 
agent 18 Irritates 19-boy! 20 Cardinals' 
nest, Busch ­23 Flinch 24 Asnerand 
Ames 25 In order to 28 Small rail 30 %:abbr. 33 Feel sympathy 34 Hasfood 36 TV's Gibbs 38 WWII rilles 40 More imperti· 
nent 42 Avoid by 
cunning 43 Healing crust 45 Fed 46 Uncle­47 Tipsy derelict 49 Plumed birds 51 Moon vehicle 52 Proportion 54 Eagles' aerie 6~ Charles lamb 62 Della­63 Approximately 64 -·do-well 85 -on (start) 66 Bearing 67 Patch a coat 68 Tries out 69 Norse poetry 
DOWN 1 Mlldcheese 2 Theater box 3 Rich soli 
4 Chiefs' wigwam 41 Colleagues 5 Ran at full of a kind speed 44 Midriff 6 Sacro·-dlmlnlshers 
The SAB and the Around the Corner Club celebrate WINTER FESTIVAL by sponsoring an 
UNDERGRADUATE NIGHT 
Food and beverages prov.lded 


"'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/28/86
All Alghls Reserved 
7 Loftiest 8 Indians 9 Placard 
10 Thin nails 11 Big Foot's 
parallel 12 "-Brute!" 13 Layer of ore 21 Inlet 22-apple 25 Wiseguys 26 Fla.city 27 Play a guitar 29 Gr. mountain 30 First·rate 31 Golf shoe Item 32 Mountain 
lakes 35 Part of YMCA: abbr. 37 Oilers' drill· ing field 39 More modem 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


2/28/86 
48 Turk. hospice 56 Row of seats 50 Actress Scala 57 Near-extinct 51 Flndout goose 53 Thing of value 58 Rainbow: pref. 54 Peddle 59 Previously 55 Birthplace owned 
ofZeno 60-Lisa 
.. 

''You're gonna be OK, mister, but I can't say the same for your IIHie buddy over there .... The way I hear It, he's the one that mouthed off to them gunfighters In the first place." 
I I I I with this ad only I I I 
BOOTH AND BEDS 
LOCATED AT THE 
I
UIUVERSin COIIOIIS 
I
ST.RD.23 
I
272·7&53 
I 
r---------------------------~1 
I I I I I I 
I ~ 
I 


I 52929u.s.11 rtorth I __, ....... -. .. ---· 
I With this coupon receive a
• 

Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
After S pm on Fri.-Sat. Only 
(Limited Delivery Area) 
L-~~~:~~~~--------~~~~~:~~~~~J 
The Student Activities l:Joard presents 
Mel Gibson and Tina Turner 
In 

Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome 
Friday, February 28/ March 1 Hall of Engineering 

7:oo, 9:oo, tt:oo------11 


------~-~------------­
Friday, February 28, 1986 -page 12
S~orts 
pearance at the ACC. 
The Irish co-captains have both had outstanding careers during their four years at Notre Dame. An all-American candidate, Keys has rewritten much of the Irish record book during her four years. Ebben has been a dependable performer for the Irish, providing both out­side shooting and leadership. 
Keys sat out the Butler win on Wednesday with a rotator cuff pro­blem but is expected to return to the lineup tonight for her home finale. Notre Dame has been on a roll of· late, winning 10 of its last 11 games, including the last six in a row. The Irish are getting ready for a rematch with Dayton, the only North Star Conference member to defeat them, and possible postseason play. 
But like any good coach, Notre Dame's Mary DiStanislao is only concerned about the game at hand. DiStanislao is wary of her players looking ahead to Dayton and suf-
Bisons visit ACC tonight 
Evansville will come at us hard and we're going to have to play for 40 minutes." 
Indeed, Evansville would like nothing better than to knock off the more talented Notre Dame squad. Coach Bill Barnett's Purple Aces have struggled to a 6-18 record, so a win against the Irish would make their season. 
Evansville will be counting on junior forward Gretchen Eisenhauer, who averages 14.4 points and 3.1 rebounds per game. Joining her on the frontline are sophomore forward Karla Hughes 
(9.4 ppg , 6.2 rpg) and junior center Kathy Sloan (9.0 ppg , 6.2 rpg). At the guards are senior Barb Dykstra (9.4 ppg , 5.I rpg ) and freshman Angie McGrew (7.1 ppg , 
2.6 rpg ). 
The Purple Aces have a big task in front of them if they are to upset the Irish. In an earlier meeting this season at Evansville, Notre Dame won easily, 76-55, with Keys and Ebben leading the way, scoring 18 and 17 points, respectively. 

Bengal Bouts begin Sunday night with largest field ever competing 
By SCOTT INGLIS sent, literally, a fight for a cause. Wednesday before the Bouts, then 
Sports Writer That cause, for which Notre Dame train lightly and rest up for their 
boxers have been working for over first matches. According to Kelly, 
For the past 56 years, Notre half a century, is to raise money for the dedication to training in this Dame boxers have been doing the Holy Cross missions in year's group is the best he has ever situps, jumping rope and slugging Bangladesh. The boxers, according seen. it out in the ring with the hopes of to Kelly, have really been taking "In the four years that I've been becoming a Bengal Bouts cham­their motto, "We fight to feed," to here, I've never seen a group as well pion. That long and glorious tradi­heart this year. prepared as this one," said Kelly. tion continues this weekend at "What makes this year special to "There has really been a high inten­Stepan Center, as a record number me is that the boxers have put much sity this year in the workouts." of boxers from the Notre Dame more of an effort toward raising Returning as defending cham­Boxing Club will step into the ring funds for the missions," said Kelly. pions, and ensuring that this year's Sunday night to resume the annual Our guys realize that what they are group of fighters will not be lacking event. doing is going to save lives." in creative nicknames, are Donald 
"This is the largest Bengal Bouts In addition to their fundraising "Transpo" Antrobus, Joseph tournament in the history of the efforts, the fighters must maintain "Smokin' Joe" Collins and Pernell program," says club president and a rigorous workout schedule in "Soul Train" Taylor, the only foot­former Bengal champion, Ed Kelly. preparation for the Bengals. This ball player in this year's Bouts. An­"The turnout this year has been training, which involves a two-hour trobus, a power-puncher last year, phenomenal, and we are only six daily workout, begins at the start of has added finesse to his arsenal and 
boxers shy of doubling the number January and lasts for six weeks, should be tough to derail in the 
we had last year." culminating in the tournament 165-pound division. Meanwhile, 
The Bengals, founded all those bouts, determining a champion in Collins, with sharp, straight pun­years ago by Notre Dame alumnus each of 14 weight divisions. ches and a big heart, will be defen­Dominick J. (Nappy) Napolitano, In order to qualify in their divi­ding the 147-pound title, and represent, of course, more than just sions, the fighters must also diet to 
a boxing tournament. they repre-bring their weight down by see BOUTS, page 9 
Irish to face hungry Warrior team 
credibility for an NCAA bid, and Leading the way for the Warriors By NICK SCHRANTZ that's what they're looking for." is forward David Boone. The 6-6 Sports Writer Marquette has even more incen­junior leads Marquette in both 
tive heading into the game, as the scoring and rebounding, with 
MIL WAUKEE -The Notre Irish have won the last five averages of 15.0 and 10.6, respec­Dame men's basketball team in­meetings, including a 72-70 over­tively. vades the MECCA in Milwaukee time victory at the ACC earlier this Boone's running mate forward, tomorrow (2 p.m., CBS-TV) to year. Kerry Trotter pours in 13 .4 points take on a Marquette basketball Each of the last three meetings at per game while grabbing 6.5 re­team that is hungry for revenge and the MECCA have been decided by bounds. playing for a certain bid to the two points or less, while neither Tom Copa and Walter Downing NCAA tournament. team has won by more than lO handle the center position for the 
The Warriors are 17-8, and ac­points in Milwaukee since 1959. Warriors. They average 8.4 and 7.3 cording to Irish coach Digger "It seems like every time we've points a game, respectively, while Phelps, they need a victory over a played in Milwaukee lately it's been each grabs about four rebounds per top-ranked team like Notre IJ"'ame a thriller," said Phelps. "Plus, I'm game. to force the NCAA selection com­sure they haven't forgotten the 
Benny Moore scores 12 points a mittee to give them a bid. game here at Notre Dame a month game at the guard position, while "I'm sure they're going to be in a ago. Knowing that we probably Kevin Johnson and Michael Sims 
position where they know they have didn't deserve to win the game here, play regularly to give Marquette a to win this game to get a bid," they'll have confidence to win the potent and experienced backcourt. 
Phelps said. "A victory gives them game up there." 
The Irish travel to Milwaukee 
with a 20-5 record and a certain 
NCAA bid. However, Phelps and 
his team want to keep their winning 
edge as they head into tournament 
play. 

Women play host to Aces 
in seniors' last home game 
"For us, these games down the 
stretch mean everything as far as 
By JOHN COYLE fering a letdown against the Purple wanting to go into the NCAA tour­
Sports Writer Aces. nament on a positiv;:," said the 
"Evansville isn't playing for the Irish coach. "Last year we did that 
The women's basketball game championship so they would like with wins over Washington, Mar­
against Evansville tonight at 7:30 nothing better than to play a spoiler quette and Dayton at the end ­
will mean a little something extra role and beat us," says DiStanislao. and we've got the same challenge 
for seniors Trena Keys and Lynn "I don't think I have to warn the this year with Marquette and 
Ebben; it will mark their last ap­players that we'd better play well. Dayton left in the final week." 
lspo~Tl 
The Observer /Drew Sandler 
-
Notre Dame senior Joseph Price goes up for a layup in Tuesday night's win over DePaul. Price and the Irish travel to Milwaukee to face Marquette tomorrow afternoon. Nick Schrantz previews the game at lower left. 
Sorin blows out Morrissey, advances to championships 
By TERRY LYNCH held in check. Sorin frustrated the Sports Writer Morrissey passing lanes, and it 
wasn't long before the Manor 
Chris Nanni scored 19 points and started shooting from the outside. Rick DiBernardo added l 0 last Their offense never was in sync, night, as the Sorin interhall basket­which led to the resounding final ball team advanced to the final score in favor of Sorin. round of the double-elimination "Defense, execution and Chris playoffs with a 47-29 win against Nanni" were the keys to last night's Morrissey. Sorin completely victory according to Sorin captain dominated the game from the open­Pat Collins. "Chris was definitely ing tip, and the team from the the star of the game." Manor seemed to tire quickly on "Phi Slamma Otta" led the entire the ACC pit floor. Greg Dingens game, which was the final of the scored six points in the losing effort winner's bracket in the "A" league. for Morrissey. Morrissey suffered its first defeat 
Nanni was all over the court dur­of the year, having gone ing the game, as the Sorin point undefeated through both the guard hit virtually all of his outside regular season and the playoffs. shots, went 7-of-7 from the foul They will now face Grace lA on line and was the ~key player in the Sunday at 4 p.m. on the very same first half on account of a tight man­pit floor. to-man defense and a dominance Grace, meanwhile, came from on the boards. behind for a tense 61-58 victory in 
Rebounding was the major fac­Wednesday night's final in the tor dictating the play of last night's loser's bracket over Alumni. steve playoff contest, as the normally 
see GRACE, page 10high-scoring Manor offense was 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 

Hurting but determined, Lefty Smith's Notre Dame hockey team takes the ice for two games with the Bisons of North Dakota State this weekend at the ACC hockey rink. 
The games, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m., will be the last home games of the year. Head Coach Smith is hoping that the Irish, and especial­ly the seniors, can close out the 1985-86 season with a pair of wins. 
"These seniors deserve a lot of credit and respect," said Smith, in his 18th year with the Irish. "When they were coming up, we were a top CCHA (Central Collegiate Hockey Association) team, then we struggled and became a club team, and now we've regained varsity status and are building to become and outstanding hockey program. They've run the gamut, and have conducted themselves in a fine manner way through it all. I'm proud of them." 
Last weekend's series against Northern Arizona proved costly not only in the win-loss column, but key members of the squad were knocked out of ac­tion as well. Smith is heartened that at least a few will be back this weekend. 
"I hope we can fall back on the idea that when you're hurt, you push a little harder," added Smith. "The guys who play are going to have to go at it 110 percent for us to be effective. We think that (grad student) Brent Chapman, (sophomore) Mark Anquillare, and (senior co-captain) Bob Thebeau will be back from last weekend's injuries and will be ready to contribute for us." 
North Dakota State was 24-10 last year and Smith realizes that the Bisons won't roll over for the Irish in the last two home games of the year. 
"It should be an entertaining and competitive series," commented Smith. "Looking at who they've played and beaten in the last two years, I'd say we'll be dealing with a fine team. They've really decided to build their hockey program." 



