Playboy prince -page 6 


Professor proposes mandatory AIDS test for U.S. population 
By MARY BERGER 
Staff Reporter 
A visiting law professor at Notre Dame has proposed mandatory testing of the entire U.S. popula­tion to identify the carriers of Aquired Immune Deficiency syn­drome or AIDS. 
Richard Duncan, a University of Nebraska professor, said such testing would help slow the spread of the disease, which breaks down the body's immune system and often leads to death. 
"Currently, there is no public policy attempting to stop the spread of the disease," Duncan said. "Considering effective ways to slow the spread, testing and identification of carriers is the only answer." 
Duncan said the test would be confidential and it would be left up to those found to have the virus to "make the appropriate changes in their lifestyles." 
Confirmed cases of AIDS vic­tin•s in lhc United States, those that are ill with the disease, presently number more than 18,000, accor­ding to the federal estimate made by the Center for Disease Control. 
Duncan said the number of car­riers, "those infected with the AIDS virus but not ill with the disease who can pass it on," could be as high as two million at the pre­sent time. 
"The real problem is not the 18,000 who have the disease, but the two million carriers who d'o not know tht:y have the virus, have con­tact with others, and are spreading the disease," Duncan said. 
"If the spread of the disease is not checked soon," Duncan said, "two to ten million new ~;ases will be ex­posed in the near future." 
Duncan's proposal is detailed in his article in the next issue of the "Journal of Contemporary Health Law and Policy." In this article, he calls for mandatory testing of the entire population of the United States to identify carriers of AIDS. 
Duncan explained that the disease is not spread through casual contact but through needles and sexual intercourse.-Duncan said he hopes that once an individual knows he is infected, he will refrain from infecting others. 
"If this step is not effective, then we would need to reevaluate the situation and consider further steps like the laws which prohibit know­ingly exposing a person to a 
see AIDS, page 3 

Phillipine investigator says document lacks credibility 

Two-minute warning 
Renovations to LaFortune will put the Huddle on the disabled list as of Friday. The Deli area and the Huddle will be closed through the remainder of the semester until next fall. Michael Smith was one of Huddle employee Cressa Alexander's final patrons last night. The services provided by the Huddle and the Deli will be moved to the North and South dining halls, according to William Hickey, director of University Food Services. 



Compromise on rebel aid possible, says Reagan 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Reagan, scrambling for votes to win $100 million in military aid to Nicaraguan rebels, offered Con­gress yesterday a possible com­promise that would limit the assistance to "defensive" weapons, training and logistics for the first 90 days. 
With today's showdown House vote expected to be extremely close, the White House gave congressmen a draft executive order that they said Reagan would sign if the $100 million was passed. 
The draft order would restrict the first 90 days of aid to the Con­tra rebels to weapons "for defense against air attacks," training in small-unit warfare and logistical aid. The aid would be stopped if the rebels engaged in human rights violations or drug smuggling. 
Under the president's plan, all types of military aid would be per­mitted after 90 days if the leftist Nicaraguan government does not negotiate seriously with the rebels -a step the government has repeatedly refused to take, charg­ing that the Contras are a creation of the United States. 
Congress could block the aid at that point, but that would require majority votes in both the House and Senate. Reagan could then veto such a move and it would require a two-thirds majority in each house to override him. 
Rep. Michael Barnes, D-Md., chairman of the House Foreign Af­fairs subcommittee on Latin America, said the proposed com­promise "doesn't really change anything .... It's an obvious indic­ation that the administration doesn't have the votes on the merits and they're grasping for ways to get some votes." 
But Rep. John McKernan, R­Maine, a swing vote, said that while he was still undecided, the new pro-
see CONTRAS, page 5 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The chief Philippine investigator of deposed President Ferdinand Marcos' wealth said yesterday he does "not give much credence" to a document indicating contributions of $50,000 each in 1980 to the presidential campaigns of Ronald Reagan and Jimmy Carter. 
Jovita Salonga told Congress, "I did not give it (the document) much credence because it does not bear any signature or initial," and three congressmen also said the paper 



Take a break 
Today is the last issue of The Observer before spring break. The newspaper will resume publication Thursday, April 
3. The Observer statt wishes everyone a safe and happy vaca­tion wherever you may be traveling. Happy Easter! 
should be viewed with caution because its authenticity has not been established. , 
Spokesmen for both the Reagan and Carter campaigns said they knew nothing of the purported con­tributions, and Sen. Alan Cranston, D-Calif., who is named in the paper as receiving $10,000, said he was unaware of any such contribution. 
Fred Eiland, chief spokesman for the Federal Election Commis­sion, said it is illegal for foreign na­
see FUNDS, page 3 



Reagan endorses program to attack acid rain 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan, who has resisted Canadian pressure to join in combating the sources of acid rain, announced his endorsement yesterday of a $50 billion program to develop methods to attack the causes of the problem. 
Canadian Prime Minister Brian 
Mulroney, who came to Washington to win a U.S. commit­ment to act against acid rain pollu­tion, called Reagan's statement "a significant step . . . in the right direction" and told the president, "We now have an agreed founda­tion on which to build." 
Reagan, commenting for the first time on the recommendations of. special envoys he and Mulroney ap­pointed a year ago to study the pro­blem, said, ''I fully endorse the report." 
His spokesman, Larry Speakes, said the administration "will seek to provide in the' future the funding recommended" in the envoys' report that was presented to Reagan and Mulroney in January. 
The president for years has in­sisted the acid rain problem needed further study before a control pro­gram could be designed. 
The report calls on the United States to embark on a five-year program, with $2.5 billion provid­ed by the government and $2.5 billion by industry, to develop methods of redu<;ing the sulfur and nitrogen oxide emissions from coal­burning plants. 

Such plants, particularly in the industrial Midwest and Northeast, are responsible for most of the pollution that scientists say mixes with moisture in the air and returns , to earth as acid rain, damaging lakes and streams and killing fish. 
Speakes, in describing the U.S. position, left open the possibility that the government would seek greater industrial support than the 50 percent recommended by the en­voys, former Reagan Transportation Secretary Drew Lewis and former Ontario Premier William Davis. 
At the conclusion of two days of White House talks, the president and prime minister also signed a five-year extension of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) agreement. 
Critics said extension of the pact, which Reagan and then-Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau last signed in 1981, could lead to Canada being drawn into Reagan's "Star Wars" space defense plan. The Mulroney government has declined to par­ticipate in the research program, formally known as the Strategic Defense Initiative, but private 
Canadian concerns are permitted to 

sign contracts to help develop por­
tions of the system. 

Reagan and Mulroney agreed the launching of the long-sought demonstration program to reduce acid-causing emissions is only the beginning of U.S. and Canadian ef­forts to solve the problems of acid rain.. 
"Serious scientific and economic problems remain to be solved," Reagan said, "but in the spirit of cooperation and good will which has come to characterize the way Canadians and Americans ap­proach their common problems, I am confident that we have begun a process which will benefit future generations in both our great coun­tries." 
Mulroney expressed his gratitude to Reagan for agreeing to endorse the report. 

J 
I The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986 -page 2 
' 
I 

In Brief 
"Debbie Does Dallas" was shown by a student group at the University of Illinois as a protest against the student government's efforts to ban pornographic films from campus. The X-rated film. attracted more viewers than all six shows of each of the other three movies ("Footloose," ''French Connection" and "Raiders of the Lost Ark'') on campus that weekend. -The Observer / 
Reports of tainted-Girl Scout cookies continued to pour into the Indiana State Board of Health, but as of Wednesday, only nine reports had been confirmed as cases of tampering, a board spokesman said. Von Roebuck said the latest case was con­firmed by the board and by the U.S. Food and Drug Administra­tion on Monday. Since March 6, Roebuck said, the board has received 33 complaints of cookies tainted with glass, aluminum, sewing needles and pins. Cases of confirmed tampering originated in several cities, including South Bend, although unconfirmed reports have come from many other areas. -AP 
A Faith Assembly couple, of Elkhart, Ind., were convicted yesterday of reckless homicide in the death of their in­fant son. Prosecutors claimed that David and Randa Hoover's 9­day-old son, Bradley, could have been saved had the couple sought medical treatment for him: Medical experts testified during the two-day trial in Elkhart Superior Court that Bradley, who died Aug. 14, suffered from an inflamed abdomen caused by a twisted bowel. The Hoovers testified that they didn't know why their son died but believed God could have cured him. The Hoovers are members of the Faith Assembly, a religious group that shuns medical care in favor of faith-healing. -AP 
An experimental drug designed to relieve depres­sion also shows promise cf helping fat people lose weight without going on diets, its manufacturer says. The drug, called Prozac, was developed by Eli Lilly and Co. The price of the pharmaceutical firm's stock rose to $67.l:.t5 a share yesterday, up $7.875, ap­parently as a result of r.ews about the drug's potential use in obesi­ty.-AP 

Of Interest 
Run-off elections will be held today for sophomore class officers, off-campus commissij>ner, and off-campus district senator. Pat Cooke's class ticket will face, Patrick Creadon's ticket in the sophomore office race; Steve Taeyaerts and Tracey "Race" Thoman will battle for off-campus commissioner; and Eileen Har­tigan and Fred Pugliano are vying for the off-campus senate seat. Voting will be held in the dorms from ll:30 to 1:30 and 4:30 to 
6:30 and in LaFortune Student Center lobby from noon to 5. -The Observer. 
ND/SMC shuttle will run on its regular shuttle tomor­row but will stop service at 9 p.m. instead of midnight. The regular schedule will resume Tuesday, April I at 7:30 a.m. -The Observer 
Norbert Wiley' associate professor at the University of Illinois, will present a lecture today at 3 in the library lounge. The lecture is titled "The History of Self: Primates to Present." -The Observer 


Weather 
A royal sendoff from Michiana to more tropical weather is in store for the start of spring break tomorrow. A chance of snow flurries today with highs in the low 20s. Clear­ing and very cold today with lows from 5 to 
10. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the mid to upper 20s. -AP 



Design Editor ....... Melissa Warnke Features Copy Editor ...... Ed Nolan Design Assistant ....... Chris Bowler ND Day Editor ...... Sharon Emmite Typesetters ........ Cindy, Bill, Tess, SMC Day Editor ...... Priscilla Karle 
Mary Chris Ad Design Peter Georges, Joan Wrappe News Editor ....... Mark Pankowski Jim Kraimer Sports Copy Editor .. Dennis Corrigan Photographer . ........ qreg Stranger 
Th~ O~rver ( l"SPS ~99 l· tllllll) i• puhlishell ~onllay 1hrou¢1 frillay exc·epl llurin~ exam and \'al·auon periods Thr O~rv~r i~ puhli~hed hr the stulknt~ofthc: l"nin:r~it\ of Notre Dame and Saim Mary"s Colletce. Subscription~ .:na~ he purl·hased l~•r 1:\0 pe~ year ( tlO per scmcMcr) hy wri<int~The O~rver. P.O !lox 1). :-.mrc Dame. lnlliana 
-t6556. The O~rver is a mcmher of The Assoclat~d Press. All reproduction ri~ht• arc 
reSt"""''f!'d. 

The only good news IDediuiD is a responsible, responsive one 
I wonder if Professor Bob Schmuhl realizes how completely he summarized American journalism for me in one afternoon class last year. 
Commenting on the three basic media, Professo.r Schmuhl explained that radio alerts, television in­forms, and newspapers explain. By its power of im­mediacy radio can bring a news item to your attention frrst. Television, also an immediate news source, can offer more details because of its advanced technology. Newspapers have the space to devote to an issue, per­sonality or event; therefore, they act as educator. 
A knowledgeable society needs all three com­ponents to maintain and function in a democracy. This may sound arrogant, as the press often does, but it is the plain, undeniable truth: the press is responsi­ble in helping to mold, or at least to influence, society. 
The news media does not tell people what to think, but it does tell them what to think about. The media sets people's news agenda. If reporters continually fill the pages with tales of urban blight, national attention will turn to the decay of the city. Consequently, it is the editor's task to decide what is news. 
In the determination of news and its presentation, editors and reporters must consider several things. Ac­curacy has to be a given. Readers and viewers should not be left with questions after reading or watching a news story. If a newspaper is not credible, it has no place on the newsstand. 
Decisions editors face everyday involve whether they present what the public wants to know, or what they should know. There has to be a middle ground. Band Aid, We Are the World and Live Aid all were respectable, predominantly altruistic actions to help alleviate the suffering in Africa. They also were star­filled, flashy events that lured the media. But the press had an obligation to dig deeper into the situation. Although it would have been easier merely to inter­view the celebrities and report the record sales, the news media had to explain how such famine could sweep through Ethiopia and other African nations, leaving human shells and corpses in its wake. That is education. And that is the way to bring about im­provement. 
The value of the news media is that it is there every day, more regularly than the postman. Consequently, people tend to derive their perceptions of public figures, events and issues from these daily sources of information. The press must accept this responsibility without abusing the power. 
Although a newspaper, television or radio station may want to offer all the news that's fit to print, broadcast or telecast, the media must consider the public welfare. What is in the best interest of society? The New York Times uncovered the Bay of Pigs inva­sion of Cuba in 1962. When President John F. Ken­nedy asked the paper not to reveal it for fear the news 
Sarah Hamilton 
Editor-in-Chief 



tvdio. f"oles... 

could ruin the invasion, the newspaper obliged him. Ironically, Kennedy admitted after the disastrous results of the invasion that he wished the Times had gone ahead with the story. It may have saved lives and international embarrassment. 
Just last summer, the major networks conducted a press conference with the terrorists of the TWA jetliner that was hijacked to Beirut. When the reporters were granting the hijackers the same coverage they give elected officials, they were offering legitimacy to terrorism. By offering the terrorists.. an avenue of communication, did the press think that it was just working to free human beings? The press must ask itself these questions all the time, and face the reality of the answers. 
Radio, television and newspapers -responsible news media -are essential in a free society. This Pro­fessor Schmuhl taught me. What he left out, howeve~, is that a fourth componenet is needed. The public. People must be knowledgeable about and actively concerned that the press lives up to its social duties. The best way to do this is to know how the press works and why it works. 
While radio alerts, and television informs 'and newspapers explain, people must be listening, wat­ching, reading and speaking up. The only good news medium is a responsible and responsive one. 


The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 

~March 
'Jt'0 .ot


1mes 

SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

Spring Break in Fort Lauderdale 
Monday, March 24  Intra-coastal boat trip with dinner. Fee is $10.00  
Tuesday, March 25  Everglades day bike tour with lunch. Fee is $8.00  
Baseball--Yankees vs. Kansas City 7:30pm  
Wednesday, March 26  Baseball--Yankees vs. Expos 7:30pm  

Thursday, March 27 Student Union and Alumni Association Dance & Party Friday, March 28 Baseball--Dodgers Vs. Rangers 1:30pm Saturday, March 29 Easter Vigil Mass at 4:00pm Depart for campus with bo:t lunch immediately following Mass. 
Come meet us at the Alumni Association Van located behind the Riviera Hotel! We will be providing: 
* 
A Hospitality Center 


* 
A free WATS line to phone home 

* 
A student locator file to find out where your friends are in Florida 

* 
Orange juice and newspapers provided by St. Mary's every morning 

* 
Shopping center excursion each evening

* 
Information and message exchange 


SEE YOU IN FLORIDA! 
The Obserwr Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 3 

A surgion at the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center in Hershey, Pa., on Monday adjusts the temporary Penn Stale artificial heart implanted in the chest of Robert Cresswell of Huntington, Pa., during an operation to replace a transplanted donor's heart that Cresswell's body rejected. 




Howto 

General to lecture on 'Star Wars' 
By MARY E. HESS 
News Staff 
The Strategic Defense Initiative. President Ronald Reagan called it a way "to free the world from the threat of intercontinental nuclear war," while its opponents see it as a very expensive and inevitably falli­ble program. 
One of those closely involved with the program is Brigadier General Robert Rankine Jr., the Air Force's special assistant for the Strategic Defense Initiative (SOl), who will discuss the controversial program tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. 
Rankine's speech, sponsored by the Around the Corner Club and Air Force ROTC Detachment 225, will consist of a slide presentation and lecture addressing the basis and progress of SOl, more popularly know as "Star Wars." 
''Tonight's forum is an excellent opportunity for students to clear up any clouds on the subject," said Captain Roger Overturf of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC. "It's like I keep telling the cadets: 'You don't want to avoid asking the tough questions.' That's what he's here for." 
Overturf said Rankine, the Air Force's senior official involved with SOl, will arrive on campus at 12:30 
p.m. to begin a "whirlwind tour" of activities. The brigadier general will speak in the Air Force ROTC Leadership Lab and an Engineering Values Seminar before his presen­tation to the public. Rankine's itinerary also includes a brief courtesy call with University Presi­dent Father Theodore Hesburgh, who is widely know for his anti­nuclear stance. 
Rankine· is a 28-year veteran of 
described Duncan's proposal as "an enormous invasion of privacy.
AIDS 
"I am not sure we have reached the point where such a step is
continuedfrom page 1 
necessary," Newman said. "Con­venearal disease," Duncan said. sidering the number of lived which However, another visiting law will be saved by such a measure, it 
school professor, Joel Newman, is not worth it." 
With the American Express® Card you can buy everything from new spectacles to some pretty spectac­ular clothing. The latest in audio equipment and the latest albums. The Card is the perfect way to pay for just about anything you'll want during college. 
How to get the Card before you graduate. Because we believe that college is the first sign of success, we've made it easier for you to get the American Express Card. Graduating students can get the Card as soon as they accept a SIO,OOO career-oriented job. If you're not graduating this semester, you can apply for a special sponsored Card. Look for student applications on campus. Or call I-800-THE-CARD, and tell them you want a student application. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it~M 
the Air Force ROTC program who has been involved with SOl since its conception. In September 1984, Rankine received a letter of ap­preciation from Reagan, commen­ding the brigadier general's signifi­cant contribution to the establish­ment and implementation ofSDI. As special assistant for SOl, Rankine has overall management for all Air Force resources current­ly used in research efforts. Present research follows many different concepts, involving a wide range of both nuclear and non-nuclear technologies. 
The program is designed to answer a number of scientific and engineering questions that must be addressed before Congress and trhe president can decide whether or not to adopt the advanced defensive system. The decision point is ex­pected to be reached some time in the early 1990s. 

Yet Duncan said it is. "If no one else is exposed, over a quarter million people will die. But if the spread is not halted, millions will die," he said "We do not want segregation, we want to protect the AIDS victims, but we must protect public health." 
Although Newman questioned whether or not the time has come for the action Duncan proposed, Duncan said he feels action at some later point will be too late to beef­fective. 
"In addition to the testing I pro­pose, I feel that no money should be spread and no paths should go unexplored in the search for a vac­cine or cure for AIDS," Duncan said. 

Funds 
continuedfrom page 1 
tionals to contribute, directly or in­directly, to U.S. political cam­paigns. He said it also is illegal to knowingly accept or solicit dona­tions from foreign nationals. The prohibition does not apply to resi­dent aliens. 
The paper listing the purported contributions was among 2,300 pages of documents Marcos took with him to Hawaii last month after his 20-year rule in the Philip­pines collapsed. 
The papers were turned over Tuesday to Salonga, head of the Commission on Good Govern­ment, and the House Foreign Af­fairs subcommittee on Pacific and Asian Affairs, which is in­vestigating Marcos' U.S. dealings. 
Salonga appeared before the panel yesterday and said the papers detail what he called Marcos' "unbelievable plunder" of the Philippine treasury. He has estimated Marcos' worth at $5 billion to $10 billion. 
Rep. Stephen Solarz, 0-N.Y., chairman of the subcommittee, said the Marcos papers led him to conclude that Marcos' government "existed for th_£.primary purpose of looting and ~ndering the wealth of the nation." 
The documents were not released publicly, although Solarz said, "I want to make as much of this public as soon as possible." 
Rep. Robert G. Torricelli, 0­N.J., told reporters after the hear­ing that the campaign contributions were detailed in a document dated 1982 and referring to the 1980 cam­paign. 
I orricelli said the documents in­dicate a Manila-based company named "Mabuhai" transferred "several hundred thousand dollars" to U.S. campaigns. 

The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 4 
0 bserver general board selected 
fhe Observer announced the Residing in Cordova, Tenn., selection of 14 students to com-Baltz has been photography plete its general board for 1986-manager, day chief, copy editor 
87. and senior staff reporter. 
Anne Culligan, a junior David Thorton, a sophomore American studies/ ALP A major Arts and Letters pre-professional, will continue as advertising will be the new systems manager. manager. Before becoming adver-Thorton has served as assistant tising manager in the fall of 1984, systems manager and is from Cin­Culligan served as assistant cinnati, Ohio. advertising manager. Culligan Drew Sandler, a sophomore resides in St. Paul, Minn. · government/art major will act as 
Chris Bowler, a junior govern-photography manager. From ment/ALP A major, will resume Nashua, N.H., Sandler has been a his duties as production manager. member of the photography staff. A native of Edina, Minn., Bowler He also has worked on the staffs is a former production manager, of several yearbooks and assistant production. manager, newspapers. design editor, and design assis-James Carroll, a sophomore in tant. the Program of Liberal Studies, 
Frank Lipo, a junior American also will serve as a photography studies/history major, has been manager. Carroll currently named executive news editor. A resides in Falls Church, Va. He resident of Highland Park, Ill., has served as a member of the Lipo previously has been a news photography staff. editor, copy chief, news copy Margie Kersten, a junior com-editor and senior staff reporter. munications major/business 
Mark Pankowski, a sophomore minor, will be the new Saint American studies major, has been Mary's editor. From Fort Dodge, named a news editor. The Iowa, Kersten has served as a Tallahassee, Fla., resident is a photographer, features writer, former sports writer, member of copy editor and assistant Saint the news staff, copy editor and Mary's editor. assistant news editor. Alex Vonderhaar, a junior ac-
Tripp Baltz, a junior American counting major, has been pro­studies/German major, also has moted to the position of con­been named a news editor. troller. Vonderhaar, an Evansville, Ind. resident, has been the accounts payable clerk and the assistant controller. 
Mary Jacoby, a junior American studies/German major, has been chosen the Accent editor.' A Little Rock, Ark., resi­dent, Jacoby has been a member of the news staff, a features writer, assistant features editor and features copy editor. 
Dennis Corrigan, a sophomore enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters, is the new sports editor. Corrigan, currently a resi­dent of Annandale, Va., has serv­ed as a sports writer and sports copy editor. 
Mark Weimholt, a junior in­dustrial design/ ALP A major, will assume the position of graphic arts manager . A Plymouth, Minn., resident, Weimholt has served as arts editor and regular art contributor. 
Scott Bear by, a sophomore government/ ALP A major, has been chosen Viewpoint editor. From Hammond, Ind., Bearby has acted as assistant news editor and staff reporter. 
The general board is selected by the new editor-in-chief in con­sultation with the new managing editor and the business manager. 
The new general board will assume its duties April2. 

University gets $557,916 in grants 
Special to Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame received $557,916 in grants during February for the sup­port of service programs, in­structional programs and research. 
Awards for service programs totaled $36,728, including $19,581 from private benefactors for pro­grams of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry and $17,147 from the Indiana State Board of Health for the arbovirus surveillance laboratory directed by Paul Grimstad, assistant professor of biology. 
Awards for instructional pro­grams consisted of a $4,400 grant from the McGee Foundation for the McGee fellowship program in economics. 
Research funds totaled $516,788, including: 
• 
$154,462 from the National Institutes of Health for research on the intermediary metabolism of parasitic worms by Howard Saz, professor of biology. 

• 
$117,993 from the Lilly En­dowment Inc. for a study of the historical roots of the Roman Catholic parish by Jay Dolan, pro­fessor of history and director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 

• 
$105,998 from the National Institutes of Health for 1/i­



glycolipid biosynthesis in mouse T­and B-lymphomas by Manju Basu, associate faculty fellow in chemistry, and Subhash Basu, pro­fessor of chemistry. 
• 
$96,000 from the National Science Foundation for the study of metallaboranes by Thomas Fehler, chairman and professor of chemistry. 

• 
$35,000 from the American Chemical''Society for the study of carbocyclic systems via iron alkylidene complexes by Paul Hel­quist, professor of chemistry. 

• 
$7,335 from the Whirlpool Corp. for a fellowship in aerospace and mechanical engineering. 


~~~~ATTENTION LAW STUDENTS r~,~ firSt~nd second year law students have a unique opportunity to apply for the Marine Corps Platoon Leaders Class (PLC) Law Program leading to a commission as an officer of Marines and membership in one of the largest law firms in the country, the Judge Advocate Division.  
1------WHAT A MARINE JUDGE ADVOCATE DOES___---i  
The judge Advocate Division functions much like a large civilian law firm and Includes about 400 practicing lawyers. Few civilian practices, however, can offer a young lawyer the diversity of assignments you will receive in the Marine Corps. As a Judge Advocate, you will have the opportunity to work In a variety of fields, such as International, labor, torts, environment, family, and aviation law. Your Initial work will probably be in litigation, as either a prosecuter or a defense counsel in court-martial and later as a judge In criminal cases of all descriptions. Some of the Judge Advocate's practice Is routine, such as drafting wills and leases. Judge Advocates have also appeared before federal district courts, courts of appeal, the Merit Systems Protection Board, and at Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and Nuclear Regulatory Commission hearings. Your military experience will be easily transferable to civilian practice.  
t--------BENEFITS AVAILABLE ---------t • Law Program Guarantee • Freedom to withdraw from the program after Initial training • Summer training session with pay Includes free travel, books, clothes, room&board • Longevity accrued while In law school, which means more money 1n your pocket• • FOR MORE INFORMATION OR AN APPOINTMENT CALL TOLL FREE: 1-800-621-8009  

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS

•· Vq.ta"'"" ci /tktit Di.ltft 
SHAWBRIIAA IIUGBDERA • BABA GHENOUJ HOMMUS • FBLAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD 
SOUTH BEND • LEBANESE STYLE 
• Pit. Sj,4/ed Stuttlur<dta G VROS 
• lHiifht{ul Poutrie• • Turloi.h Coif~~ 2 88-5639 
Tueo • Sat 6:~PM • 9:30PM COMPLETE C'ATEifiNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES & BANQUET~ 

10i.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
SPRING BREAK PART 
in Ft. Lauderdale, FL Thurs., March 27, 1986 _ from 9om-??? 
lo \I , 

5755 N Powerline Road f. ~'f~J2l' 
vJ ~ower nne (Nw'P Avt)-. " < 




~+~:JYO Q10
r AJ. A See you there! ~ -...:.;......;..;....usa, Jill, Julie & Debbi~----..1 
We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contacts, gla••ea 
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show your J.D. aad receive 
20" OFF GlASSES OR CONTACTS 
1635 N.lronwood 

Excladiag Specials  
~ w  ProfessionalVISion ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage  

234-2400277-1161 Martin's Shopping
South of U.S. 23 Center 


Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain• Our 100 day voyages sail in January and September offering 12~ 15 transferable hours of credit from more than 50 voyage~related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American~ built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. 
For details call toll-free (800) 854-0195 or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University ofPittsburgh, 2E Fbrbes Quadrangle Pittsburgh, PA 15260 
Thursday, March 10th, IIam-3pm Information table at LaFortune Center 4:30pm Film on 2ndfloor LaFortune Center International Studies Lounge 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND 
-~---~-----­
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986 -page 5 

U.S. doctors say Nicaraguan rebels deliberately attack health centers 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -On the eve of the 
congressional vote on aid to the 
Nicaraguan Contras, a group of 
U.S. doctors is charging that the rebels have deliberately attacked rural health centers and killed and kidnapped health workers in viola­tion of international law. 
The doctors, who belong to an organization of health workers op­posed to U.S. aid to the rebels, said Contra forces have completely or partially destroyed 61 health facilities and forced the closing of 37 others since 1981. Thirty-eight health workers have been killed and 28 others kidnapped, the doctors said. 
Their report, prepared after a visit to Nicaragua by 120 American health workers in November, is be­ing distributed to members of the House of Representatives this week, said one of the report's authors, Dr. David Siegel of the University of California in San Francisco. 
A vehicle is lifted from Hotel New World that collapsed last 
Today, the House will decide 
weekend in Singapore. 
whether to approve President Reagan's plan to give $100 million in military and economic aid to the Contras. A compromise appeared possible yesterday when White House spokesman Larry Speakes said the administration might agree to changes that would delay delivery of military and other aid for up to four months to permit time for diplomatic negociations. 
The doctors' report, a follow-up to one released in March 1985, was prepared by Siegel and other members of the San Francisco Bay Area Committee for Health Rights in Central America, a local affiliate of the National Central American Health Rights Network. The members who visited Nicaragua paid their own way, Siegel said. 
Siegel said in a telephone inter­view that he and his associates generally support the Sandinista government of Nicaragua and op­pose the Contras. 
"As health care professionals, we are particularly disturbed by the pervasive violations of medical neutrality committed by Contra forces," the doctors said in the 
~----------------------------~nip-n-save---------------------.------1 
I I 
I 
I I Use it to alter yourgrades.
I 
I )i>u just got a C+ in flosf. \\"{11· f!m:~f!.ll flri/t(y )i>u just got :t B-in Omtlllllllimlirms la11: )i>u just got :tn F+ in .idt'(/ltced fii!J:1'it:1' :\n F+' Bm. you could use some help. From a .\lacintosh'" personal computer. A.\lacintosh can help you \\'ith your home­\\·ork. llelp \OU \\'ith your term papers. llelp \OU \\'ith ~uur research projecb..\nd help \OU organize \Our ~tud~ time and think more clear!~: 
.\nd at i:L~t count ..\l:tctntosh could nm hullllretb of sohw:tre programs to help \ou \\'ith tWn1hing fi·llm linguistics to Ia\\. Pillsics to philosnplll. .\ledicine to .\ledieul histon: 
The point being. \\·hen \OU bring :t \lacintosh home \\·ith \OU. there's :t ,_ good ch:tnce \OLd! he !;ringing • home something else. Better grades. . 
', .. ,,'. ,, '. •I''' 

R-:.tth·:'! ~~ (· .•..!() .:t"! y~-·.Jr·: ~--::rHMf -....;f)..::..n ·tti<:· A.itil"'.t Ht·~:'i, .;;~~_;;c:, rlt'()JJRttf. hun lnf.,_'> 
n~t.t·<:b:tJ ~·t····nlJW!··n··~ 

Ht:::.;•~-;-J f·.,tr.t:l~_t iiifliSW ·ff1\.1>:tJ, ~Jrt-~t .:~<-<:..~:19::ro;:':f {.~1 t;..nntjt,;t p~'?lf..~.~"'d 
g>":>~~rn~n•:'tl~ -rnr·:~nn-?Eti<•t:. t...-.:~ ~~u~..l:~;t:!!+.:: ~lW Hng du.n.t"t:g tll~ 19:\l)\, ;:;,n<.Jt> 
tJ)~t·~ ~·....r:~·· .. th~ ·r~:J.t ~~:~~'~'~df.l'f.t.:....:· t·:> t~:~t~;.. u.p t.r~~:!!i. aco.wat:k>ri, t..h~ <:;:~~~~~:· <.::~nle:~ :1t::~'lfa.''tt 
t+:.> tl:m~ ~; W::::>-r-~':l ;j_~.d.~n~,t. ttt~'t •.>t h.t$ ,~(_>;::~.J~:~~H• ... 

N!'W I. OW I' RICIN(; ON MACINTOSH 512K/MACINTOSIII'I l ISH & l!I'GKADI:SNOW AVAILABLE 
llniver\lty of Notre Dame faculty, \taff & 

I· or fun her informal ion, inquire at the \ludenh .:an buy macinw;h computers al 
( ·ompuling Center. room 25. 9:00-5:00 M-F di~wuntcd priu:; from I he Notre Dame Phone 239-74.77 Com puler S1ore. 
II INI: Cui and ;tick on refrigerator at home during 'Pring break. A madntosh compute'r makes a great practical gifl. 
-----------------------------snip-n-save---------~-----------------­
report, "Health Consequences of War in Nicaragua." 
The report cites a section of the Geneva Conventions of 1949 re­quiring that medical personnel "be granted all available help for the performance of their duties" and that medical units "shall not be the object of the attack." 
In Washington, an official in the State Department press office who refused to be identified said the department had not seen the report and had no comment on it. 
Bosco Matamoros, spokesman for the Nicaraguan Democratic Force, the largest rebel group, did not return telephone calls to his Washington office seeking com­ment. 
Seigel said the attacks on the health centers could not have been accidental. 
Accounts of the destruction of health centers were verified whenever possible by visits to the centers and interviews with sources outside the Nicaraguan govern­ment, including the Pan American Health Organization and the Inter­national Red Cross, Siegel said. 


Contras 
continuedfrom page 1 
posal made him more likely to vote 
for the $100 million. 
In a statement accompanying the 
draft order, Reagan said he favored 
a negotiated solution with the lef­
tist Nicaraguan government and 
that "approval of my request for 
additional assistance . . . does not 
mean that a military solution is in­
evitable." 
While the House debated, a fresh appeal to avoid the use of force in the Central American region was made in Washington by the eight­nation Contodore group of Latin American countries seeking a peaceful settlement in the area. 
Speaking at a meeting of the Political Council of the Organiza­tion of American States, Venezuelan Ambassador Edilberto Moreno said it was necessary to reiterate the obligation of all member states of the OAS "to solve their controversies exclusively by peaceful means and to abstain from the use of force directly or indirect­ly." 
Moreno said he was speaking for 
Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Mex­
ico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay and 
Venezuela. 
Chile's new ambassador to the 
OAS, Javier lllanes, declared his 
country's "decided support for the 
Contadora peace efforts." 
House Speaker Thomas O'Neill, D-Mass., described the upcoming House decision as a "Tonkin Gulf vote," a reference to the 1964 resolution that enabled then­President Johnson to introduce 
U.S. troops in Vietnam. 
"1 see this leading to war," said O'Neill. "I see a quagmire down there." 
O'Neill said the Democrats main­tained a 10-to-15 vote lead and had seen "no erosion" over the past days despite an intensive personal lobbying campaign by Reagan. 
In the House debate, Republicans charged that defeat of Reagan's proposal would amount to abandoning Nicaragua to com­munism, while Democrats contend­ed that approving the aid would launch tht; nation on a course toward war. 
"The United States is embarked on a lonely crusade of support for the Contras," said Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-lnd., House In­telligence Committee chairman. 




~------~-----~--­
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 6 

' 
,.,,_ 
Buckingham Palace announced yesterday the engagement of Prince Andrew, second son of Queen Elizabeth II, to Sarah Ferguson, daughter of Major Ronald Ferguson. The couple, pic­tured here at Royal Ascot last summer, have been childhood friends since the age of4 or 5. Story at right. 


British playboy prince to marry childhood friend called 'Fergie' 
Associated Pn!SS heir to the throne, whose mar­war with Argentina. Ferguson is a riage to Lady Diana Spencer in sales executive with a London 
LONDON -The royal family 1981 was televised around the graphics and printing firm. said yesterday that Prince An­world, said he "could not be more Both said they would continue drew, whose flings with models delighted" by his brother's choice. working. and actresses delighted gossip col­"I think she is wonderful," he told The engagement was announc­umnists, will marry a childhood reporters. ed in a brief statement handed to friend with red hair and freckles Soon after their engagement reporters outside Buckingham called fergie. , was announced, the couple had Palace. 
Buckingham Palace's announc­their first joint interview with It said, "It is with greatest ment said Andrew, second son of British newspaper and television pleasure that the Queen and the Queen Elizabeth II and fourth in reporters in the prince's study at Duke of Edinburgh announce the line to the British throne, is the Palace. betrothal of their beloved son, engaged to ~ Sarah Ferguson, Andrew and Sarah kissed for Prince Andrew, to Miss Sarah daughter Prince Charles' polo the benefit of the cameras, giggl­Ferguson, daughter of Major manager, Maj. Ronald Ferguson. ed, teased one another and Ronald Ferguson and Mrs. Hec­Both Andrew and Miss Ferguson displayed the engagement ring, a tor Barrantes." are26. large ruby set in a circle of The Duke of Edinburgh is 
No date or place was set, but diamonds. Prince Philip, the queen's hus­Andrew said he hoped the wed­She replied, when asked what band. ding would be in the summer at they like about one another, "wit, Ferguson's parents were divorc-' Westminster Abbey. His parents charm . . . looks." He said, "the ed 11 years ago, and her mother, were married there in 1947, and it same, and the red hair." Susan, married Hector Barrantes, is the site of all coronations since After marriage, Sarah will be an Argentine polo player. the crown was placed on William Her Royal Highness, the Princess His romantic escapades madt the Conqueror's head in 1066. Andrew. They probably will newspaper headlines for years 
Prime Minister Margaret That­become Duke and Duchess of and earned him the name "Randy cher and Archbishop of Canter­York, the dukedam traditionally Andy" in the gossip columns. The bury Robert Runde, spiritual reserved by tradition for the most notable was a long relation­head of the state Church of monarch's second son. ship with American actress England, were among the first to Andrew, a Royal Navy lieute­Kathleen "Koo" Stark, who ap­offer congratulations. nant and helicopter pilot, saw ac­peared in soft-porn films during 
Prince Charles, the 37-year-old tion in the 1982 Falkland Islands her early career. 

·"CJ'Qowe~g fp~ oQQ ocr:ogio~~ 
Come in and Browse 

327lincolnway 232-3354 

THI K 
THICK I 



THIRSIAY 

Right now, you can get the 2n-21s1 hearty THURSDAY THICK 1835 South Bend Ave. ONE for only five bucks! Plaza 23 Center A thick 12" pizza with pepperoni, double cheese and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery in less than 30 minutes. So call Domino's Pizza and ask lor the THURSDAY THICK DOMINO'S 

ONE. PIZZA 
Our drivers carry less than 
DELIVERS"
$20.00. Umited delivery area: No coupon necessary. FREE. 
Not valid with any other purchase. 


RUN FOR COVER! 
The original cast is coming to save their school ... and it's open season on anyone who gets within range! 
WARNER BROS. Presents A PAUL MASLANSKY PRODUCTION A JERRY PARIS Film "POUa ACADEMY 3: BACK IN TRAINING" Starring STEVE GUTTENBERG • BUBBA SMITH • Dt>.VID GRAF MICHAEL WINSLOW • MARION RAMSEY • LESLIE EASTERBROOK • ART METRANO • TIM KAZURINSKY 
BOBCAT GOLDTHWAIT as Zed and GEORGE GAYNES as Cmdt. Lessard Music Composed by ROBERT FOLK tfji'WIITM.IIIIIIEEIIIlaJlBICM#j Written by GENE QUINTANO Produced by PAUL MASLANSKY FROM WARNER BROS. A •-··-·---® Directed by JERRY PARIS A WARNER ~!!~~~N~~~ '\W 
WATCH OUT! THEY'RE HERE MARCH 21! 

The Observer 
Thursday, March 20, 1986 -page 7 
Amy Carter one of 14 stud~ents arrested at IBM protest 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -Four­teen college students, including Brown University freshman Amy Carter, were arrested yesterday in an anti-apartheid protest at a local International Business Machines Corp. office. 
Providence police arrested the students approximately 30 minutes after they began a sit-in protesting IBM's dealings in racially segregated South Africa. Specific charges were not immediatley available. 
The protesters had said they would stay in the building either until they were arrested or until the company stops doing business in South Africa. 
"In a non-violent manner, we will remain in this office until IBM withdraws its approximately $100 million worth of support for an apartheid economy," the IS-year­old daughter of former President Carter said in a tape recording released by the activists. 
"We are prepared to be arrested for taking this action," Ms. Carter 
said. "Though illegal, this action is 
done in solidarity with those who 
struggle for freedom... As such, 
we believe it is justified.n 
The demonstrators included 13 
Brown undergraduates and one 
University of Rhode Island stu­
dent. They are members of Brown 
Free Southern Africa Coalition. 
Earlier this month, four coalition members staged a nine-day, water­only fast at the campus chapel in protest of South Africa's segrega­tion policy and the university's refusal to immediately sell its $35.. 2 million in South African-tied stock. 
Coalition organizers said the group planned the civil disobe­dience in advance, and on Tuesday went to the IBM office and took a guided tour to check out the layout. The students said they wanted to occupy the office's main computer center on the second floor, but were stopped by security guards in the lobby. Police said they were ar­rested without incident. 
Ms. Carter, the youngest of four Carter children from Plains, Ga., has been 'i coalition member since 

coming to Brown in September 
1985. 
While a participant in anti­apartheid rallies and other campus protests, Ms. Carter has been quiet. She has declined interviews, and yesterday again declined comment before entering IBM's Charles Street offices. 
"I really don't want to make a statement on my own," Ms. Carter said. "I'll leave it to the official (coalition) spokesmen." 
The blonde-haired, bespectacled freshman, who often was seen on the nightly news during her youth at the White House from 1977 to 1981, was arrested in April1985 at another anti-apartheid protest at the South African embassy in Washington. 
Charges in that case were drop­ped. 
Melissa Montgomery, a Carter family spokeswoman in Atlanta, said neither the former president nor his wife, Rosalynn, would com­ment on Tuesday's arrest. 
Ms. Carter and four other stu­dents on the tape recording attack­ed IBM for doing business in South Africa. 
"Business as usual at IBM means apartheid as usual in South Africa," said freshman Jordan Ash, 18, of Long Branch, N.J. 
Michael Dutton, a spokesman at IBM's corporate headquarters in Armonk, N.Y., said: "We respect the rights of students to express their views in a peaceful and lawful manner. However, we believe IBM is not an appropriate target." 
Dutton said IBM is opposed to South Africa's policy of racial segregation and is working to change the apartheid system. 
Annual revenues for IBM South Africa are approximately $250 million, or approximately 0.5 per­cent of the corporation's worldwide revenues, he said. The Johannesburg-based subsidiary, which involves sales and service but no manufacturing, employs ap­proximately 1,900 workers, Dutton said. 
Told that Ms. Carter was among those arrested, the public relations officer said, "Oh gosh." 
Robert Reichley, Brown vice president for university relations, had a similar reaction. He declined immediate comment. 
The students said they also are protesting the Ivy League school's investment policy. The university voted last month for a limited divestment plan that student ac­tivists have labled unacceptable. 
Coalition leaders identified the Brown protesters as: Robert Ayres, 22, a senior from.:ian Mateo, Calif.; Jonathan Walsh, 21, a senior from West Newton, Mass.; Margaret Cummings, 21, a junior from Washington; Lauren Christman, 21, a junior from Con­cord, Mass.; Rebecca Smith, 20, a junior from Rockville, Md.; Greg Gruszynski, 21, a senior from Mill Valley, Calif.; Nerissa Wu, 18, a freshman from Holmdel, N.J.; Eric White, 22, a senior from Bloomington, Ind.; Paige Cox, 18, a freshman from Waterford, VA.; Scott Krigsman, 22, a senior from Tacoma, Wash.; Jack Defandorf, 21, a senior from Lynnfield, Mass.; Ash and Ms. Carter. 
The URI student was identified as James Monti, 21, a senior from West Warwick. 

23in.or Corn King 
13in.plush Easter Animals or Agar 

Canned


S399 

Ham, Sib. 
S699 
Easter Feast! Easter Fun! . Stock up at ALDI~ 
~:~~E~~~ced, chunk, crushed, juice pack, 20 oz.... 59~ 
:-e01~n~~~~1z.~~. ~~.~~~-~~-~~. ~.~~ ... 25~ Pre-Creamed Shortening, 42 oz.......... 99~ Brown & Sene Rolls, 12 rons. 11 oz......... 49~ Premium White Bread, 20 oz............. 25~ 
~~!~~c~~~~~ -~~~ -~~-~~~ -~-~~ ........... 99~ 
5299

Ice Cream, strawberry or furlge swirl, 5 qt. pail . . . . . 
3207 Uncolnway West 929N.Eddy Iouth lend, IN South lend, IN 
Mon.·Thun.: tam· 7pm Mon.•TIIU,..: 1Dam • 7pm l'rtday: tam ·lpm l'rtday: tam ·lpm Saturday: tam· 6pm Saturday: tam • 6pm Cloted Iunday CI-SUnday 
The Stock-Up Store.j 
1986 AlDI INC. 
PRICES GOOD THRU 3-22-86 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
REG. OR LIGHT 
BAI 
IRISH CREA 





12!~ 

SUN COUNTRY COOLER 
2!! 

·------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

--~-··-----------------­


Classic harmonies and driving music 
Accent 
Style evolves from rock 
Ifyou look closely at the cover of Elvis Costello's classic debut LP ":My Aim Is True, you'll notice "~~s lng ELvis Is King" all over 
··'\'. 
the ba(;~round. It was a punk move intended to shake up the disco ducks 'of the late 70s a little bit. 

Records 
King of America

\\*** (outoffour) 
Ifyou look closely at the cover of King of America, you'll notice that Elvis probably had a complexion problem as a teenager. You'll also notice that he is pictured as the King of America. This album is, in fact, brimming with references to America. 
The album is dominatrd by a country feel -a musical genre pioneered here in the good ol' U.S. 


Cliches mar good music 
KRISMURPHY 
features writer 

Frontier Days, the Del Lords ' first album, was a collection of grit­ty buy heartfelt rock and roll vignettes. A punchy, straightfor­ward guitar-and-drums sound com­bined with stories of working women, mercenary soldiers, and struggling lovers to make it one of my favorite albums of 1985. Listen­ing to Frontier Days was kind of like listening to the Romantics sing John Steinbeck. 

The second Del Lords' album is breathless with its pace. For tight, Johnny Comes Marching Home spare bar-band music the Del Lords and it finds the band either holding have few equals and the tunes on steadily or faltering. The music is the new album are up to the stan­the greatest strength here. Scott dards set by Frontier Days. 

P.A.CIMINO 
features writer 

Every two years, the Electric Light Orchestra (better known as ELO) returns from out of the blue with a new album. Each of these ef­forts is designed to offer both hit pop singles and, for the more devout fan, rich, full-bodied music of the type for which the band is noted. 

Records 

~ \ Balance of Power 



\\ ~ **j 
(out of four) 

ELO has been in existence for 13 years and after many personnel changes, the newest album, Balance of Power, includes only founders Jeff Lynne (writer, pro­ducer, guitars, keyboards) and Bev Bevan (drums)' and veteran keyboardist Richard Tandy. 
Balance of Power is an in­teresting album from a few view­points. The band's sound is trimm­ed down from the days of A New World Record and the double set Out of the Blue. These earlier endeavors featured many backing string parts which gave an or­chestral feel to the music. Balance Kempner, guitarist and lead voclaist was once a member of the Dictators and their polito-thrash influence shows in the spare ar­rangements and rough vocals. Add these assets to the big guitar sound and drummer Frank Funaro's teeth rattling whomps and the sound is sure to please. 
The best songs here employ this sound to the utmost. "Heaven" is a rollicking anthem with a singalong chorus of: 
"I beleive that there • is a heaven before I'm dead! 
"Love Lies Dying" has great har­mony that accents the air of resingl­ed sadness. "No Waitress No More" kicks in with a rockabilly flourish and leaves the band 
A. He sings about having the ''Eisenhower Blues." In "Glitter Gulch" he sings about a gameshow where the contestants must humiliate themselves for money. I can't think of anything more American than a game show. 
In "American Without Tears" Elvis seems to lament his own Americanization as he sings about an expatriate who realizes that he has without his knowledge olst touch with his original home. 
Elvis, too, appears to have lost touch with his original home -rock and roll. The only song that oculd really be called rock and roll is the non-LP B-side "Brand New Hair­do." 
Also, Elvis completed this album practically unaided by his faithful sidekicks, the Attractions. He chose instead to use a lot of proven sessionmen, including the legen­dary James Burton, who worked 
of Power lacks these components 
and follows a more essential trend 
toward using only guitars, 
keyboards, and drums. 
This trend in ELO's music has 
been building during the band's last 
two efforts, Time and Secret 
Messages. This record also contains 
an abundance of sequenced pro­
gramming. Tandy is a wiz in this 
area and captivatingly enhances 
many of the album's 10 songs. 
As expected, the second side con­
tains the first single, Calling 
America which is quickly rising up 
the charts. It is a light bouncy tume 
which sticks in the mind from fmt 
hearing and also features LYDDI'a 
creative lvrics: 
Talk is cheap on satellite, 
but all I get is static. 
Information I'm still here, 
redial on automatic. 
Unfortunately, the song employs 
the same simplistic chord progres­sion used in ELO's last two top ten singles (Hold on Tight and Rock 'n Roll is King) and it is sad to see that . Lynne must rely on banal means to 
create hits. 
The first side of the record is awash with captivating melodies. The quirky Heaven Only Knows with the first Elvis. With Burton's 

help, Elvis includes a great deal of 
retro-rockability tunes, which 
smooth the transition away from 
rock and roll that he appears to be 
making. 
Also smoothing this transition 
are the folk songs that are included·. ~'Indoor Fireworks" (which was written by Elvis for Nick Lowe's last album) and "Little Palaces" both showcase Elvis' rasp over pro­ducer T-Bone Burnett's masterful sparse acoustic arrangement. 
This album's major disappoint­ment comes with Elvis' cover of the Animals' "Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood." The lyrics fit Elvis Costello's pose to a tee, but the execution queers the whole thing. His voice sounds like he has been sucking straight carbon monoxide for three or four hours before recording the track. Maybe he had a cold and had to sing it through a wall of phlegm and 
Lyrics, however, are a different matter. While the first record had simple lyrics they managed to stay unpretentious by virtue of the stories they told. The new lyrics can't· boast of the same quality. Plot lines and poignant phrases take a back door to patriotic posturing and cliches. Lines like: "Hey hey baby how ya doin"?" and "1000 miles away, getting further everyday, from this phone by the highway" are a tiresome use of stoneage lyrica subjects. The ex­tremely simplistic stabs at social relevance make for some embar­rassing lyrical moments. 
Overall Johnny Comes Marching Home is another good effort by the Del Lords. The music is some of the best of its kind and the band's heart is in the right place. The lyrics are pretty bad buy more experience will probably help. Buy the Del Lords for the great music. Then turn it up so 'loud that you can't hear the lyrics. 
opens the side with full harmonies and a colorful chorus. The second tume is So Serious; an energetic tune which betrays any solemnity the lyrics might convey and ends up being just a lot of fun. 
Following these two songs is the expansive and haunting, "Getting to the Point." This is in all probability the best song on the album and features classic ELO harmonies coupled with a driving musical pro­gression which harkens back to music from Out of the Blue, when the band had yet to completely slip into the pop mainstream. 
Another fine song on side one, "Is It Alright" closes the side with a great chorus although the verses are somewhat weak. 
lhe second side is somewhat im­potent in comparison to the first. Although it has "Calling America" and the equally jumpy but shallow, "Send It," the side suffers from three poor songs. In each of these there are spots of promise, however they are overshadowed by plodding dry lyrics and melodies. "Send It" ends the side with intricate echoing harmonies and a rollicking runaway train-type thythm. 
Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 8 

mucous. Whatever it is, it doesn't King of America is a good album sound good. The young Elvis but only a passable Elvis Costello would have sped it up and scream-album. We've come to expect more ed it at the top of this throat. This, from Elvis. Of course, a mediocre unfortunately, is not the young Elvis Costello album is always bet-Elvis. ter that a great Journay album. 
All in all, Balance of Power shows some promise though it may only find true appeal with staunch ELO fans. It does have a number of songs which could garner wide ap­peal, however, many of them will most likely never encounter airplay. In any case, by ELO stan­dards, Balance of Power is a good ­but not great -album. 
r----------------------------~· 
The Observer 


· Sports Briefs 
William Maptoher and Sanjay Dalal, 
members of the ND Squash Club, will advance to the Insilco tour­nament regionals he! April 4-6 in Indianapolis, Ind. Both players qualified for the regionals through performances in the ND tour­nament last weekend. -The Observer 
The 55th Anniversary Rockne Memorial 
mass and breakfast will be held Sunday, March 23 on the west side of the South Dining Hall. Guests speakers will include Erwin Burke, creator of a short film documenting the Rockne story, Lou Holtz, and members of the Rockne family. The mass is scheduled to begin at 9 a.m. with the breakfast immediately after. For infor­mation on how to purchase tickets call Pat Novitzki at 237-5392 or Gary Vanderbeek at 647-8223.-The Observer 
An amateur karate tournament, sponsored by 
the Indiana Amateur Athletic Union, will be held Sunday, May 4 at the Omni Sports Complex in Schererville, Ind. Six winners in each division will be named to advance to regionals throughout the 
U.S.. Anyone interested in participating must register by calling 924-4463. -The Observer • 
A Bookstore Basketball meeting for all cap­
tains will be held on Wednesday, April 2 at 8 p.m. m the Library Auditorium. Attendance is mandatory for all team captains. Schedules will be distributed and games will begin Friday, April4. For more information call Steve Wenc at 283-2506.-The Observer 
Jud Heathcoate, Michigan State's head basketball coach was named the Big lO Coach of the Year yesterday by the Midwest media. The Spartans are the only team from the Big lO that is still alive in the NCAA Tournament. Bob Knight of Indiana finished second, followed by Purdue's Gene Keady and Michigan's Bill Frieder. -The Observer 
• 

Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 9 
Track to compete in Ariz. meet 
By ED JORDANICH 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's 1986 outdoor track season begins this weekend in Tucson, Ariz., at the Willie Williams Invitational. This will be the first of two meets over spring break, as the Irish will return home to host their own invitational the following Saturday, March 29. 
Saturday will mark the first visit to the Tucson event for coach Joe Piane's team. Entering his 11th season as the Irish head coach, Piane's high hopes for this season's squad are fueled by anticipation of a quick start. 
"The Willie Williams will be a great track meet," said Piane. "Arizone, BYU, Illinois and Nor­thwestern will be our competition, and they all have excellent times for better seedings in later meets, and our people in the field events wi'n finally get outside to show their stuff. 
"For example, if Jim Tyler runs the 1,500 in 3:44-3:45 he would qualify for the ICAA's. It will be a non-scoring meet so our individuals won't have the pressure of team points. It will good preparation for the big stuff in April." 
Notre Dame's all-American two­mile indoor relay team will get an immediate test on the outdoor sur­face from Northwestern and its young runners, but it will not be the only one challenged. 
"Arizone has a great group of middle distance runners," said Piane, "and finished either second or third in the NCAA cross-country championships. lllinois finished se­cond in the Big Ten last year, so we know they will be tough, and BYU has a traditionally strong team." , 
The opponents coming to South Bend for the Notre Dame Invita­tional on March 29 do not have the high-calibre name teams but have some excellent talent nonetheless according to Piane. 
"Western Michigan has a strong group of runners and Southwestern Michigan is a steeplechase factory," Piane says. "Valpo will be here as well. Because we're only taking 16 kids to the Willie Williams, our in­vitational should be the experience the bulk of our kids need as we start our outdoor season." 

NFLPA announces drug policy 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -The National Football League Players Associa­tion unveiled a new "get tough" drug abuse prevention program yesterday that calls for random testing of first-time offenders and permanent suspension for three­time violators. "This is the first time the players have voted on a get-tough policy for repeated drug users in the NFL," NFLPA executive Director Gene Upshaw said, 1"The penalties need to be tought. That's the way you control the drug problem in the NFL." But NFL commissioner Pete 
rozelle released a statement in New York saying, "I do not feel that the preposals which were announced today will solve the problem." 
And a spokesman for the NFL management Council, the owners' bargaining unit, said from it its New York office that there is "nothing in this so-called 'preven­tion program' that we don't already have. It's disappointing to us that we've been talking to them (the union) regularly, trying to reach some sort of mutual agreement, and they're going off unilaterally." 
'Under the program announced by Upshaw, players who test positive in the preseason urinalysis would be treated by an independent medical facility and be required to submit to random testing for the re­mainder of the season and the off­season. 
According to the preposed plan, approved unanimously by the ex­ecutive directors of the NFLP A on Saturday, second-time drug of­fenders must forfeit a paycheck for one game. 
If a player is tested positive for drug use the third time, he would be suspended from the league by could appeal for reinstatement after one year before a joint committe made up of union, management and medical members. 
/he lJhserr·t'r :\otn: l> •.mu: otth.c.· loc.Jtt.·d t•n tht.: tllln.l n,~,,r ul l..tlortlHU.: "tmknt < t·nt.-r. K<Tph cl&"itint •<ht·rt"on~: trum ') d 111 lllllol 1 p 111. \lunda\ thruu~:h I rod•\ I he 1!hstn•t•r ~aont .\1.on ·,"II" c It~< dtnl on till" thord tloor ot lld)()(dr ( otlt')(t' ( t·nt.-r dll t·pt' cld'"tkd' Inom 12 ~II p m tllllol ~ p 111 \ton dJ\ though I nllJ\ lh:Jdhnt.· t11r nt.·'r d.n ll..t,,llit.·d... '' "' p 111 \II t.l.l,~lfit.·t.h mu'l ht.· prt'p..tu.l t'lt hc.T 111 pt.'r't m nr In m.ul < Iurge: '' lllc.cnh pt.:r II\ t.: t. har.lc.


Classifieds 
ti·r, n Ja\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Ava~lable 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234·8H7. 
ATIN: STUDENTS Doloret Fran<>s typong aervlce phone number change 277·8131 
Wordproceaalng· Typing 272·8827 
PRO·TYPE Reaumea, law papers, dlauruollona, atudent papers. 277-5133. 
Semi-furnished house In good neighborhood 255-3884/277·3604 
Ft. Lauderdale apt. wk. may 17-24. $300. Call289·1973. 
Grad Room $100/mo 277·2045 
TYPING· Fast, High-Quality. Call287· 9257. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
PAQ.TYPE 1peclaizlng In student papers, law papera, re1umea. dlaaerta· Ilona 277·5833 
Need ride to WASHINGTON, D.C. for Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Lorrl at 284-5315 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST..Ladle1 gold watch on North Quad orin NorthDinlngHIIII. Pleue. pleuecaH Unda (4t35) II you lind lt. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BAND JACKET. LEFT ON STEPAN 8-BALL COURTS TUES. 3/11. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT 11451 
To whomever picked up D.J. Lally· 30648'1 laundry on 3/6 or 3n: Whether you took my bundle(o) on purpooe or not 11 of little consequence to m•·ljuat need my cfothel and can't aNord to buy all brand-new one1t Pleue return them. and no mener what. abaolutely no queab008 wtll be uked. Drop It by 350 Sorin or call 2t7t. Thenl. 
lound; on Friday. 14 Mar. Pa1r ollakeleat· her brown gloves (slightly) worn) on south quad. Go to lost & lound In Lafortune to cla1m. They are too small tor me. 
LOST: A SEIKO WATCH ON FRIDAY NOON. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL THANG AT 3267 OR 209 KEENAN 
LOST SEIKO WATCH 14March White lace, fake gold trim, LOST NEAR IN· FIRMARY OR SENIOR BAR, CALL JOHN at 2533 THANKS. 
I 
LOST · light grey, white stag SKI JACKET . 2nd floor men's room LaFortune on 3111. If found call 2466 or bring to 1121 Grace. REWARD· no questions asked. 
HELP!Ill I lost My Watch About Two WHks Ago. lt'e Black and Gold Striped And I Loat It Around The Business Building, St. Mlch..l's Leundry, or Somewhere Elee Outside. (welch It be In my room somewhere) Pie..• Contect Tony 111482. Rewerd 
$$$ 
LOST: MY FAVORITE RED COAT-at Senior Bar St. Patrick's Day. If you think you might have picked It up by mistake (maybe you have mine and I have yours) please return It to the Ba~s Lost & Found That Ia where t have returnad yours. Or call me at 3731 
LOST 1/2 OF OUR WARDROBE IN 
P.W. LAUNDRY ROOM. PLEASE RETURN IT . . . IT DOESN' LOOK GOOD ON YOU. CALL E OR KAT 1813. 
Found: A madlum slzad black urn· brella at the Grotto. If you are all wet and need your umbrella, call marcus at 1148. 
To whomever mistook my Guess jeans jacket for theirs at Campus VIew (303) on Fri. Mar. 14, I would ap· preclate Its return ASAP. NO QUES· TIONS ASKED. Lennie 284-4119 
LOST::: Racquetball racquet and Prescription Sporls Glasses near Lyons' Hall parking lol. If found call 1528 or come by 1105 Flenner. 
•••REWARD••• 
LOST A RED WOOL COAT AT SENIOR BAR ON ST. PAT'S DAY IF FOUND PLEASE CAL DEBBIE 42117 OR MY BAO (KEV) 1007 THIS COAT REALLY MEANS A LOT TO ME · PLEASE RETURN 
Losl: Gold and green bracelet. Please call kathy 3568. 
....................... :-....... . 
Aide needed back lo NO along 1-80 from Ohio Exit 8 after break (3/31 or 4/1). Call Dale at 1657 
NEED AIDE TO SOUTHEAST OHIO: COLUMBUS, CANTON, CLEVELAND, OR WHEELING. CALL KATHY 3690. 
NEED AIDE TO DAYTON AREA THURSDAY I CALL KATHY 3690 
LOST: NO BLUE WALLET AT BUS STOP, 12:30 PM TUESDAY. NO CASH BUT STUDENT 10, DRIVERS LICENSE, CREDIT CARD INCLUDED. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MASA AT 2085 OR DROP IT BY 215 STANFORD. REWARDI 
HEY Ill SO I'M ALL WET. SOMEONE TOOK DI'F WITH MY UMBRELLA­TUESDAY, MAR. 1'/a-AFTER 'la:30 claaa In 220 O'SHAG. IT'a BLUE CLOTH, ABOUT A YARD LONG, A WOODEN HANDLE AND ITS GOT A CARRYING STRAP. A FRIEND BROUGHT IT BACK FROM LONDON SO ITS KINDA IMPORTANT. C'MON GIMME A BREAK I DROP IT OI'F AT THE LOST AND FOUND OR ~ BADIN HALL. THANKS ALOT••. 
FOR RENT 
Seml-fumlahed hou1e In good nelghbottlood 255-30841277·3804 
Ft. Lauderdale ept. wk. May 17·24. $300. Cell 2118-11173. 
Grad Room S1001mo. 277·2045. 
8-BDRM HOUSE FOR 81-87. FRP., BAR, DECK, 2 KITCHENS, 2 BATHS, MORE. 287-4203. 
WANTED 
NMCI ride to South Florida-Fort Leuderdele. Cen leave anytime after Thursday 3 p.m. Call Rick et277·2118. Deaperate, 10 help me out. 
NEED AIDE TO CLEVELAND FOR BREAK. CALL MIKE AT 288-5355. 

ADMINISTRATOR OF 
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
Mature-minded Individual to direct 
South Bend area office of nation· 
wide educationally oriented com· 
pany. Responsibilities Include 
recruitment of students, supervision 
of office and Instructional staff, 
public relations & outreach to 
academic & business communities. 
Candidates should have excellent 
communlcallons & problem solving 
skills, demonstrative leadership ablll· 
ty, experience working with the 
public and a talent for handling many 
responSibilities. Bachelor's degree 
requ;red. Educational & business ex· 
perlence preferred. Compensation In 
mid-teens. Apply by writing: Search 
Group, SHK EC, 131 West 56 Street, 
NYT,NY 10019. 
AIDE NEEDED TO LOUISVILLE, KY THUAS OR I'RI CALL DIANE 2644/3577 
FOR SALE 
ALUMNI AND RICH AI ENDS: The Spirit ol Rockne lives onl Picture you111elf In a Notre Dame blue 1933 Studebaker Rockne. Though an antique, It runa like new and looks snappy. too. For details or a closer look, call (219) 283·1373 
5 BDRM HouH. Fully fumlahlld. All appliance• end tumltu,. lnlcuded. Greet lnve1tment. Nice neighborhood. 4 mllea from NO. $22,000. Cellevenlng1 2111-31011. 
ONE WAY PLANE TICKET 
So Bend-Denver-Phoenix 
Departure 3/20 at 5:55pm 
$95 
Call272-3745 
IMAGEWAITER !.Brand new. $300.00. 234·1672. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
PREGNAN17 NEED HELPTCall 234· 
0363. 24-hr. holllne. counoelina and free pregnancy tests. WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
FREE COuPONS Ia lilt yelloJJ -of lilt c..-TeleplloM DiredO'J. Uae --yl 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't h.ve done II without your help. 
Thank You St. Jude f Please continue to neJp ~e!al/ your heJp! 
···········•··················· 
GUMBT D'S liT We're aiftii·;ng-;;;;·;~·:. 
MARI: Mom, Dad, Meleall a..t BliCk ae..t-for aareat "llat" 
discover 
discover 
DISCOVER 
DISCOVER 
BUNSIESIII YouJBO•IIu-tf-oa-1 
loJeReao Ho...... Y'all; "Hello, II Jok tllerer" Do YOII pllly buketbaiiT Day1 wllloOIII Cella; Lets violate PIU'Ietall; "'f cnne, we cal bodldalofl!" Joye, yo. 11Arnie"aoddea. Ha•e f•• 11 R-a..t d011~ fOIJtl to deep replariJ a..tao trU7 ..-Ia • •llllel HAPPY lOtio IOYE Lon, 
Me 
Aaa N .... turns 22tomorrow Happy Birthday! 
SEE YOU IN NOVEMBER WENT TO ARUBA 
AI and Eda, 111 see you soonll Love always, Marcia's sister 
Be sweet with us Langston. Rock uo for 13 hours. Ann and MJ 
Yet show me who's Boss 
THIS DAY WAS MADE !'OR YOU! ANNE FARRELL!! HAPPY MARCH fi JUhll 
To 1111111-wllo npporled -Ia Dlllricl l:Tiuulks a lot. I wiU work hard and thll II not the last you11 hear of me. loll• D. Gudl.r 
YO FAE-YOU MAY NOT HAVE WON "WON THEM WHEELS" AND YOU MAY HAVE BEEN TOO MUCH FOR STED'S SEC., BUT BABY LOOK AT YOU NOWII YOU WORIED HARD, AND I CAN'THINK OF A BETTER MAN FOR THE lOB (A WOMAN 
MAYBE). MEANWHILE CON· GRATULATIONS, MY FRIEND. LOVEFAE 
Happy Birthday Kevin (Weulll) Don~ do 
anything you ml&ht rearet and have a good one. FELIX AND CHARDO 
What is the third level of heaven? You put me in seventh heaven happy 20th briel love huck 
ANNI'ROMSMC 
We metal a St. Pats party at the comer of St. Louis and Howard Street. I asked you to our formal and you said yes. But 1 
forgot your number. Please call me. 
Bill o4080 
HAPPY PALM SUNDAY NUMBER Ill 
Staying around for biWik? Pall aa Ill lllalller for dlrllt VIall, at lilt CFJpt after Holy nandaJ Teaeltrae (Midlllallt) ..111 ....... Good Friday M-Ill· Prllllpal lateatl-: For •• Ead to Abortloll. ~by ND/SMC Rla•t to Ufe, Se<nd Heerf Pullll, PEople ol Pralle ND, Klllallll of Colambtoo, a..t tile TlloiBU More ~ IJ. 
Clleeae, 
It's almost bar month, and ill mosl cer­
tainly the end of Marchi I auess we're relics now, but I stiU rea:pect you almost u much as the Violent Femmes. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MR. (OOH, MISS STRONGII) WE LOVE YOU SWEETII!III AND I RESERVE THE RIGHT TO RI!SORT TO RULE NUMBER f IF I SEI! FITIII HAPPY ft *II LOVE, THE NORTH QUAD CONTINGENCY OF THE BUSINESS TRIOII 
Happy Birthday Eddie Bradley Ill See you in Tampa!! Love, Mary and Anne (your finance tutors!!) 
STEVETAEYAERTS ror OFF .CAMPUS COMMISSIONER VOTE.fJ . . . FOR MOREll includlna KEG TAPPING WORKSHOP HAPPY HOUR AT THI! LAUN· DROMAT: DRINK AND DRY NIOHTII TAEYA£R11i ••• 0.. V....,, 4 ......... MoreFaall 
D.C. SnJDENTS: Who will revive the PrOJreuive Happy Hour and give you 4 people in office for jull I vote? Look no further than ... STEVE TAEYAERTS FOR OC COM· MISSIONER 
The Observer 

Holtz's ND debut to be televised as ABC announces TV schedule 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Lou Holtz's first game as coach of the Notre Dame football team will be nationally televised by ABC, the network an­nounced yesterday. The Sept. 13 home game against Michigan will be televised at 3 p.m. EDT (2 p.m. EST). 
Defending national champion Oklahoma will open its 1986 season on Sept. 6 against Rose Bowl king UCLA as part of a day-night col­lege football double-header, ABC also announced. 
The UCLA-Oklahoma contest in Norman, Okla., originally was scheduled for Sept. 13. Instead, it will be played a week earlier, with ABC-TV's national telecast beginn-


NCAA sweet 16 to get underway; four from ACC and SEC still alive 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Georgia Tech is the odd team out -but the sixth-ranked Yellow Jackets will feel right at home tonight in the Southeast Regional semifinals of the NCAA basketball championships. 
Georgia Tech, 27-6, will play Louisiana State, 24-11, in the se­cond semifinal at the Omni in Atlanta, after third-ranked Ken­tucky, 31-3, meets Alabama, 24-8. 
LSU, Kentucky and Alabama are from the Southeastern Conference. Georgia Tech left the SEC 22 years ago and now belongs to the Atlan­tic Coast Conference. 
Also tonight in the West Regional semis at Houston, Auburn, 21-10 (afourth SEC team), plays Nevada-Las Vegas, 33-4, and North Carolina, 28-5, faces Louisville, 28-7. 
Tomorrow night, in the East REgional semifinals at the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, N.J., Cleveland State, 29-3, plays Navy, 29-4, and top-ranked Duke, 34-2, opposed DePaul, 18-12, while in the Midwest Regional semifinals at Kansas City, Mo., North Carolina State, 20-12, plays Iowa State, 22-10, and Kansas, 33-3, plays Michigan State, 23-7. Like Georgia Tech, Duke, North Carolina and North carolina State are in the ACC. 
The Omni isn't Georgia Tech's home court -the Yellow Jackets 
Summer or Fall 1986 Spring 1987 
WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS 
SUMMER SESSION ONLY at the Wad ham College of the University of 


OXFORD 
Accredited courses in government, economics, journalism and pre­law by an outstanding faculty. 
Full Academic Year Programs at the London School of Economics, Oxford, and St. Andrews Universities, for Qualified Juniors and Seniors. 
All credits transferred through Hamden-Sydney College, Virginia (Founded in 1776) 
Inquiries to: Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. Admissions Director The Washington International Studies Center 212· 724·0804 or 0136 

I 
(EQ/AA}

I 
ing at 3 p.m. EDT, and the kickoff at 3:30. 
Oklahoma, 11-1, captured the 1985 national championship by defeating Penn State 25-10 in the Orange Bowl. UCLA, 9-2-1, finish­ed seventh in the Associated Press rankings following a 45-28 rout of Iowa in the Rose Bowl. 
On the night of Sept. 6, ABC will televise Florida State at Nebraska at 8 p.m. EDT. Both teams were 9­3 a year ago, with Florida State finishing 15th after defeating Oklahoma State 34-23 in the Gator Bowl and Nebraska winding up No. 11 after losing to Michigan 27­23 in the Sunkist Fiesta Bowl. 
In order to switch the Florida State-Nebraska game from Sept. 13 to Sept. 6, the University of Toledo 
agreed to move its game with 
Florida Sate from Sept. 6 to Aug. 
30. 
The Michigan-Notre Dame game 
on Sept. 13 will air at 3 p.m. EDT, 
with the kickoff at 3:30. Michigan, 
10-1-1, finished second nationally 
last year. Notre Dame was 5-6 and 
Coach Gerry Faust's contract was 
not renewed. 
ABC, currently in the second of a "two-year contract with the College 
Football Association, said it will 
televise a game every Saturday 
from Sept. 6 through Dec. 6. 
Most games will be announced 
12 days in advance, although there 
are a number of exceptions when 
the network can withhold its an­
nouncement until the Sunday or 
Monday before a game. 
normally play on campus at the 8,000-seat Alexander Memorial Coliseum elsewhere in Atlanta -but Coach Bobby Cr~mins says his team still has the home-court edge. 
"We won't have to travel and we 
NCAA bracket, page 14 

should have good fan support," Cremins said. 
Tech has third-team All­American Mark Price -and Cremins no doubt wishes he also had LSU sophomore John Williams. Price leads Tech in scor­ing with a 17.3 average and Williams is averaging 18.3 points and 8.6 rebounds. 
Cremins calls the 6-foot-8, 237­pound Williams "a young Magic Johnson. He is a superstar. He can do anything -rebound, assist, score. He is tryly, truly an incredi­ble basketball player. You're not oging to be able to stop him. The only thing you can hope to do is control him." 
The Yellow Jackets are big favorites to turn back LSU. Ken­tucky is only a slim favorite over Alabama, despite the fact the Wildcats have beaten the Crimson Tide three times this season and have won 75 of the 100 games between the two schools. 
North Carolina was No. 1 in the nation most of the season, before guard Steve Hale went down with a collapsed lung and took the Tar Heels with him. Now that he's healthy again, ·so is North Carolina, a slender favorite against Louisville. 


The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applica­
tions for the following positions:  
Viewpoint  Copy  Editor  
Questions and resume should be Bearby by Friday, Apri14  directed to Scott  

Available Dine-In Only 
Friday night is special at Big Boy! All­you-care-to-eat of our delicious deep fried Perch, so crisp on the outside, tender and flaky inside PLUS French Fries, Lemon Wedge, Dinner Roll, Vegetable AND Soup & Salad Bar 


$399 
Georgia Tech's John Salley tries to get around Villanova's Mark Plansky in a second-round game of the NCAA Tournament. Details ofthis weekend's regional action appear below. 

.• (4~~
« 20% Discount 
not including sale items N.D.-S.M.C. Students 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
ND & SMC Students & Guests 
SPRING BREAK 86' 
Party at 

•
the area's High Energy Club! Thursday Mar 20 8:30-? 
86¢cover 
•86 t/: beer domestic 
•86 ¢ cocktails (bar brands) 
Miami Vice lookalike contest $50 Casla 1stprize! 
Remember Thurs April 10after break suntan contest-$50 1st pmel 
•4 ft tax"'"'beadded to eoeltud,.. 
The Observer 
CONTACT LENSES 
NAME BRAND R•p11ceme,,, & So•res SOFT LENSES 
From $19.95 ea FAST SERVICE NATIONWIDE 
1 BOO 255-2020 Toll Free 

EYE CONTACT 
P.O. BOX 12&& MANHA"AN. KS &6502 
---~---~----------------~~ ---~~--~~-------­
Thursday, March 20, 1986 -page 11 

Happy 21stBirthday 
Mark Potter! 
Just remember, you are and always will be a freshman. 





Choosing a long distance companyisa lot like choosing a roommate. 

Living with someone for the first time can be an "educational" experience. 
And living with a long distance company isn't any different. Because some companies may not give you all the services you're used to getting from AT&T. 
For instance, with some companies you have to spend a certain amount before you qualify for their special volume discounts:"With some others, voice quality may vary. 
But when you choose AT&T, there won't be any surprises when you move in. You'll get the same high­quality, trouble-free service you're used to. 

With calls that sound as close as next door. And discounts off our Day Rate on your state-to-state calls. 
With savings of over 50% during weekends until 5pm Sundays, or nights from llpm to Bam, Sunday through Friday. And 40% discounts evenings between 5pm and llpm, Sunday through Friday. 
With AT&T, you'll continue to get services like im­mediate credit for wrong numbers and collect calling. And long distance operators to help you anytime there's a problem on the line. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance com­pany, choose AT&T. Because whether you're into Mozart or metal, quality is the one thing everyone can agree on. Call 1 800 222-0300 for more information or to choose AThT. Reach out and touch someone~ 
©AT&T 1986 
~-------------------------­

------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 12 
Saint Mary's softball season starts with trip to Florida 
By KELLY PORTOLFSE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
When a softball team loses seven 
starters from a 23-9 team, it's a 
pretty good bet that the following 
season will be a rebuilding one. 
Not so, for the Florida-bound Saint Mary's softball team. With eight returnees and as many rookies, Head Coach Scott Beisel is looking forward to mixing the old with the new and thinks he will come up with just the right com­bination for a successful year. 
"We're still experimenting," said Beisel. ''The team may not realize its potential yet because of all the combinations we've been trying out. If we go with our strongest group right away, we won't know what the others can do." 
Beisel, in his seventh season with the Belles, sees many players' abili­ty to adapt to several positions as a definite plus. 
''We add strength to our ball club with our versatility," said Beisel. "a lot of people can play at two or three spots. If injuries become a problem we won't be at such a loss." 
Assistant coach Sue Becker has also been please with the team's 
Celtics down Pacers 
Associated Press 
BOSTON Robert Parish scored a season-high 28 points and grabbed 17 rebounds as the Boston Celtics set a franchise record of 22 consecutive home victories by crushing the Indiana Pacers 127­108 in an NBA game last night. 
The Celtics surpassed the mark set in 1980-81. It was broken by the Pacers on March 13, 1981. 
Larry Bird got the first two baskets of the game on layups and Boston never trailed as it rolled to its sixth straight triumph and boosted its home record to 31-1. 



Champs 
continuedfrom page 16 
Dame's Don Johnson took fifth in the division and was named to the second-team All-American. 
Edwards finished 17th for the 
Irish. 
DeCicco said he couldn't single 
out any one fencer as the hero of 
yesterday's title-winning effort. 
"There were just too many heroes 
to point at one," said DeCicco, who 
completed his 25th year as head 
coach of the Irish. "We proved that 
overall team effort is what it takes 
to win." 
The women's NCAA champion­
ship takes place today in Princeton, 
and DeCicco says he hopes that 
yesterday's men's performance will 
spark the women's squad. 

"I'm hoping that the women catch this winning fever," com­mented DeCicco. "I expect them to finish in the top six but just where in the top six, I don't know. They're a longshot to win it all, but no more of a longshot that these guys." 
fWIE TO ENO WITH VOUA ADMISSION TO LAW SCHOOl' 
THE SAME Sl<lllED INSTRUCTION THAT PREPARED YOU fOR THE lSAT CAN GUIDE YOU THROUGH fiRST YEAR lAW' 
IITROOOCTION TO LAW SCHOOL 
A a..£lr.,-!1......SEMINAR 
• 
CASE BAIEFlNG • TORTS • LEGAL WAtnNG 

• 
CML I'ROCEDUAE • STATITTOAV ANALYSIS 

• 
CONTRACTS • AESIEARCH METHODS • PROPERTY 


~-ft. 1717E.
IIC'IIPIJIII South Bend Ave. 
---272-4135 
C81TDL11> 

......._...,,"""'"·"~""­
progress thus far. 
"They are very coachable," said 
Becker. "Even when we've wanted 
to make the slightest adjustments 
they've been very cooperative and 
enthusiastic." 
One player who has got a posi­tion pretty well locked up is pit­ching ace Cathy Logsdon. The senior finished last season with a sparlking 17-3 record and credits Beisel with giving the team a positive outlook for the upcoming season. 
"Some coaches would have been worried, but he took it as a challenge and saw a lot of poten­tial," said the Sewickey, Pa., native. 
Logston should have a solid pit­ching staff to back her up this season, according to Beisel. 
''We will be stronger this year than last," predicted Beisel. "We should have more consistency and control." 
Katy Boldt, in her fifth year because of a year abroad, has made great improvements with her speed and control on the mound. 
Sophomore Betty Mihalik, who saw a lot of pitching action last season will also put in some time at second base and in the outfield. 


EGALEDITOR 

Legal publisher seeks editor to prepare summaries of court and administrative agency decisions. Analytical skills and writing ability a MUST. Law degree pre­ferred. If no law degree, should have LSAT scores at least in 85th percentile. Applicant must be open to ossible relocation. 


Reply to:/ 
We feature GM cars like this 
MLW/ 
Buick Regal. 
Box 979, 30 Court Square Boston, Massachusetts 02108 

v 
Newcomers Tammy Shelor and Mary Malina are also working hard at picking up the fundamentals on the mound and should make solid contributions. 
Rounding out the battery should be junior Janine Adamo, who had never caught a game before arriv­ing at Saint Mary's and yet manag­ed to earn all-district honors the past two years while batting above .500 through most of the season. 
Freshman Jeannette O'Neill, who is doubling on the track team, is also looking strong at the cat­ching position. 
Last year's first baseman, Barb Theiss, graduated with a .987 fielding percentage and will definitely be a tough act to follow. Lorri White and Julie McNish will most likely fill the void while con­tributing in the outfield as well. 
Junior Kris Pantelleria, who played second last year, is also working at the shortstop position, while classmate Marge Reynolds and freshman Laura Danch are practicing at third. Sophomore Diane Schroeder, who saw limited action last year, has improved a great deal and should also put in some time at second base. Sharon Hegg is also a junior but in her first year with the team because of her sophomore year abroad and other commitments freshman year. 
"She has improved a great deal since the beginning of tryouts," said Beisel. "She will be a definite utility-type player for us in the out­field and infield." 
In the outfield, Beisel also will look forward to freshmen Ann Cuti and Trish Tierney for their speed and accurate throwing ability . 
Because of the recent unspringlike weather the Belles have only been able to get in one hitting practice outdoors, and a game scheduled with Notre Dame was rained out yesterday. As a result, Beisel doesn't have much of an early indication of his team's of­fensive capabilities. 
But the South Bend weather wi'' no longer plague the Belles this month because tomorrow they will head south with a final destination of Florida to play the University of Tampa at Kissimee, Fla., and Bethune Cookman College at Daytona. 
Before the team gets out of In­diana, however, it has a date with IUPUI, the district's number one team the past few years. 
According to Beisel it will be a "real test," especially since IUPUI will just be returning from its spr­ing trip and have 14 games behind it. 
But it won't be all work and no play. Once they reach Florida, a trip to the beach and Disney World is also planned. 
On the way home the Belles will stop in Louisville, Ky., where they will take on Indiana University and Bellarmine College of Louisville. 
"The trip will get us together as a team," said Boldt. "It will help us get to know each other both on and off the field." 
When the Belles return they will head right into NAIA play. And if their level of play matches their en­thusiasm, another successful year is in store for the Saint Mary's soft­ball program. 
~March ~0.of


1mes 
SAYES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rentalow 
Weekend and Weekly Specials all year round. Need transportation to get oH campus for the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We hove weekly specials designed tor a student's budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations·allow unllmlled mileage roles wllh no drop charges. Excellent way to get home for vocation at reasonable prices. 

Conveniently Located at the 

The hardest thing about break­ing into professional music is-well, break­ing into professional music. So if you're looking for an oppor­tunity to turn your musical talent intQ a full-time perform­ing career, take a good look at Army. 
It's not all parades and John Philip Sousa. Army bands rock, waltz and boogie as well as march, 
and they nt>.-+n.,-,m 
before concert au diences as well as spectators. With an average of 40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 

Most important, you can expect a first-rate pro­fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow 
usicians. The Army s educational programs that 
can help you for off-
lly-insured student loans. Ifyou can sight­

read music, performing in the could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY. 



ARMY BAND. 

BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 13 

J'llc~/l'llcl'boto 

Irish pitcher John Gleeson could see a lot ofaction during break as the Irish baseball team heads to California to compete in the California-Riverside Invitational. Terry Lynch previews the road­trip in his story on page 16. 
Tennis travels to Texas 
Coach Fallon starts 30th year 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's tennis team will embark on an eight­match road trip to Texas over spr­ing break, with Head Coach Tom Fallon once again leading the charges. Fallon, in his 30th season as men's tennis coach owns a career record of 467-180. 
This record is particularly im­pressive given that the tennis team is allotted only two scholarships, which keeps some of the top players with pro aspirations from coming to Notre Dame. Fallon says that may change, however, with teh construction of a new indoor tennis facility that is scheduled for com­pletion in the fall. 
"With the new facility, we will be able to offer year-round tennis and, therefore, we will be able to attract better athletes," Fallon says. "It's hard to attract players from warm­weather states when our only in­door courts are being shared with so many other organizations." 
The new facility will aid a pro­gram that has already enjoyed tremendous success under Fallon. His teams have enjoyed eight 20­win seasons and have had only one losing campaign. It will also be a symbol of the amount of change that Fallon has seen during his tenure. 
"When I got the tennis coaching job, I was also the wrestling coach," he recalls. "The end of the wrestling seasoon and the beginn­ing of the tennis season overlapped so I had both teams work out together. 
"Our tennis teams were known for being in great physical shape in those days," he notes. 
"For tennis practice, I had to stretch elastic to make lines for the court in the old Fieldhouse, and we had to schedule practice around the basketball team as well as the other sports practicing there," he says. "It was quite a zoo." 
But Fallon , and his troops managed to have consistently suc­cessful seasons. In fact, Notre Dame is the only school from the Midwest to have won at least a share of the national championship twice. Fallon's championship squad of 1959 was particularly rewarding 

Tom Fallon 

to the 1942 Notre Dame graduate. 
"We won the championship with serious students on the team," he says. "The members of that team are doctors, teachers, psychologists and judges today. That was before the lure of money and professional opportunities controlled the sport." 
Just as he enjoys the success that the 1959 championship team has at­tained, Fallon also looks forward to the reunions that the tennis team holds every two years "to talk with his former players, and to see what successful people they have become." 
Fallong currently holds the rank of associate professor and is direc­tor of activities at the Rockne 

Have a great break •••••••••••••••••: 
Special Student I Youth Fares to 


SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Winter Rates to Scandinavia New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip 
New Vork to Helsinki from $270 one way Chicago to Copenhagen from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $280 one way, $480 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the 
SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 

WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL Youth and student travel experts for over a decade 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 
(212) 986-9470 

Summer Fares Now Available! 
After JODI" lastexam, what tough questions will you still be facing? 

''~' 
WYe don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions,
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. 
For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One· Year Candidate Program provides.an opportunity to ask and explore the po~ibilities in community. 
,conracr: Falher Couhlg 6 F a!her Doyle vocal/on Director 
Box 54/ 
NorreDame,IN 46556 

191239 6385
•------"'-----------(..;;~.;...___.___________. 
Memorial. Fallon says he has been fortunate to coach for 30 years, but it is obvious that Notre Dame is far more fortunate to have the benefit of his services. 
Even though the upcoming road trip does not feature any powerhouses, Fallon sees the teams that the Irish were able to schedule as quite formidable in their own right. 
"We would like to play the toughest teams like Texas and Trinity College, but the big teams usually schedule only teams that will help them earn a bid to the NCAA tournament," he says. "They don't want to get upset. Nevertheless, we have a good schedule of teams from the second echelon with Texas-San Antonio, Pan American University, Rice, Southwest Texas University and Baylor being the toughest." 
Other teams the Irish, featuring four freshmen, will face on the road trip are St. Mary's University, St. Edward's University and Texas Lutheran. 
Skins' Gibbs cuts Riggins 
Associated Pras 
WASHINGTON -Washington Redskins head coach Joe Gibbs said yesterday that after reviewing game films from last season he has put running back John Riggins on waivers and suggested he retire. 
Gibbs said that he gave Riggins two options -either announce his retirement or check around the league for a team that might be in­terested in him. 
''Whether I'm right or wrong, I'm convinced that it is time for him to retire," said Gibbs. 
:lowever, he said that if the 36­year old Riggins found a team to play for, the Redskins would not ask for compensation from that team. 
"John's meant an awful lot to the Redskins. He's been a tremendous part of our success and I think the world of him," said Gibbs. 
"We never wanted any compen­sation for John. I just wanted to do this the right way. " 
NWIT 
continuedfrom page I 6 
percentaage at 63.3 percent. 
Sophomore guard Mary Gavin has run the show all year at the point and should have her hands full defensively trying to stop the USIS press. The Irish bench should also come into play, as the long trip and the tight schedule of games might take thier toll in the form of weary legs. 
The championship game is slated for Saturday, meaning the two com­peitors will be playing three fames in three days. DiStanislao is not wor­ried about that possibility, em­phasizing that her squad is prepard to do what ha to be done. 
"We've played three games in three days earlier this year in the Miami Tournament," she says, "and we're definitely ready to do it again. The key now is to stay sharp, to keep playing consistently and to review the things that need review­
ing."We're going to have to play. that's all there is to it." 
Other teams in the tournament, on the other side of the bracket, in-
elude second-ranked Duke, West Texas State, Tennessee Tech, and Northwestern. (Ia.) 
I 
~ 
I I i 
I 
I 
--~----------------------~-­

----~----­
The Observer Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 14 




BRIGADIER GENERAL 
i will discuss 
STRATEGIC 
'DEFENSE 

---~ 
~4CJtc:IC3L~---------------------------------------------T-h_u_rs-da_y_,_M_a_rc_h_2_o,_1_9_86_-_p_a_ge_1_5

The Far Side


Zeto 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
5 Medicinal 
dried tubers 10 Poses 14 Mauritius 
casualty 15-acid 16 Stage item 17 Norway's king 18 Napery 19 Top-notch 20 Certain 
election loser 22 Showed ennui 24 London gallery 25 Astonish 26 TV street 29 Certain rug 33 Those against 34 Callas of 
opera 35 A Cantor 36 Obscure 37 Assessment 
in Eng. 
38 Printer's word 01986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
3/20/86

39 Sea bird All Rights Reserved 40 Seaweed 41 Before shop 
or band 3 Cheese 42 Uke some 4 Fit together 
pages 5 Greet 44 Posh 6 Ecclesiastical 45 December garment 
celebration 7 Bond 46 Tribe 8 Mariner's dir. 47 Mother of 9 Hair style 
Minos 10 Generates 50 Items in a Fr. 11 Word with restaurant fist or hand 54 Nail with an 12 Hollywood's 
eye Franchot 55 River hollows 13 Raced 57 "It's a sin 21 Stops up 
to tell -" 23 Atmosphere 58 Bean curd 25 Glacial 59 Choleric pinnacle 60 Cabbage cousin 26 Rescued 
61 Social Insects  27 January In  37 Oner  48 Atop  
62 Appeased fully  Jallsco  38 Popular ballet 49 Huck Finn's  
63 Pass receivers  28 Prick  40 Siren  transport  
29 With  -breath  41 Scoria  50 Apartment  
DOWN  30 Flying toys  43 Uris novel  51 Ardor  
1 Hero  31 Brainstorms  44 Shut  52-the lily  
2 "Damn Vankees"32 Spruced up  46 Gr. Island  53 Gets  
girl  34 Horses  47 This: Sp.  56 Macaw  





The shark on the go.  "Hey! I'm coming, I'm coming-just  
cross your legs and wall!"  
Campus  
*3 p.m. -Lecture, "The History of the Self:  Dinner Menus  
Primates to Present," Prof. Norbert F. Wiley,  
University of Illinois, Urbana, Library  
Lounge, Sponsored by the Graduate  Notre Dame  
Sociology Dept.  Southern Fried Chicken  
*3 p.m. -Lecture, "Recent Advances in the  Beef Stuffed Pepper  
Representations of Algebraic Groups," Prof.  Hungarian Noodle Bake  
John Sullivan, University of Washington,  Speidano Romano  
Seattle, Room 227 Computing Center and  
Math Building, Sponsored by the Kenna Lec­ 
tures in Mathematics  
*4 p.m. -Seminar, "The Free Radical  Saint Mary's  
Chemistry of Sulfite Autoxidation," Dr.  Roast Beef Au Jus  
Robert Huie, National Bureau of Standards,  Spaghetti with Meat or Marinara Sauce  
Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory  Vegetarian Quiche  
*4:30p.m. -Lecture, Prof. Charles Curtis, se­ Reuben Sandwiches  
cond floor of the Computing Center and Math  
Building, Sponsored by the Kenna Lectures in  
Mathematics  

SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

The Nazz Co•petition 

IS CODIIDg ••• 
:: .. ·. ··:;

On Friday, April 4th you will compete for: QUESTIONS? 
SPiffNG~REAK 
Wednesday, March 19th, 
*CASH PRIZES! 

Thursday, March 20th 
* A position in the Saturday showcase 
7:00. 9:00. 11:00 p.m. 
performance (April 5th) 
$1.00

Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium *A chance to play with MAX WEINBERG 



---------~------­
Thursday, March 20, 1986-page 16 
Irish men's fencing team captures NCAA crown 
Four named All-Americans as DeCicco snares 3rd title 
Special to Tbe Observer all day long for what they got. I'm 
just so proud." 
After Wayne State nosed out the The title was Notre Dame's third Notre Dame men's fencing team by under DeCicco, whose 1977 and a single point in last year's NCAA 1978 squads were repeat winners. championship, the Irish made it In addition, the national cham­their goal this year to get back to pionship was the first in any sport the finals and win it all. for Notre Dame since the 1978 title. 
Yesterday in Princeton, N.J., the The foil championship was woln Irish did just that, beating Colum­by Adam Felman of Penn State bia, 151-141, to win the 1986 (which finished third with 124 NCAA fencing championship. points.) Notre Dame's Yehuda Defending champion Wayne State Kovacs and Charles Higgs­finished sixth with 83 points. Coulthard. finished second and 
For Head Coach Mike DeCicco, third respectively. Both were nam­what happened yesterday still ed to the first-team All-America hasn't struck home. squad by virtue of their finishes. 
"Right now, it hasn't sunk in Notre Dame's Mike Gostigan 
yet," DeCicco siad when reached finished third in the epee division last night. "We talked about it behind Columbia's Steve Trevor before, but we didn't expect this. It and Penn's Chris O'Loughlin. was great competition, and anyone Gostigan also was named a first­could have taken it. team All-American. 



"The sabre was the best I've seen Mike Lofton of NYU (which 

1be Observer /Steve Jesier
in 10 years. When we lost John Ed­finished fifth behind Penn) won his 

Notre Dame's men's fencing team clinched the Mike DeCicco. Details on the men's win and 
wards and Columbia had all six, we third-straight sabre title. Notre 

1986 NCAA championship yesterday at Princeton, DeCicco's comments on today's women's meet ap­
knew it would be a struggle. But I 

N.J. The title is the team's third under Head Coach pear at left. 
talked to the kids and they fought see CHAMPS, page 12. 

NWIT_begins; Notre Dame set to face USIU 
By MARTY STRASEN cup of coffee. We can't afford to DeCree. We expect a lot of runn-past its opponent from San Diego ning the North Star Conference title Sports Writer look past anyone." ing." Calif., tonight, either Fresno State and heading into the NWIT sporting 
It's not that Motre Dame women's Notre Dame's road to the WNIT DeCree, a 6-1 senior, averaged (21-6) or Idaho (23-5) will be next in a nine-game winning streak. Their basketball coach Mary DiStanislao title begins tonight against a quick over 21 ppg. and added nine re­a game tomorrow. dLstanislao 21-7 record is the best in the team's does not like being ranked No. 1 in team fron the U.S. International, bounds per contest. Freshman would like tomorrow's contest to be six-year history as a Division I com­the Women's National Invitational which is ranked eighth in the eight-guard Sonya Carter chipped in over a winners-bracket matchup rather peitor. Tournament. She just doesn't take team tournament. But once again, 16 ppg. during the season while than a consolation game, but sees In addition, 6-1 senior Trena Keys much stock in rankings. rankings can be deceiving. sophomores Fiona Murray, 6-4, and the road to a tournament victory as has established herself as the top 
As the Irish prepare for the tour­USIU won the West Coast Amanda Spry, 6-2, each averaged a potentially rocky one. scorer in Notre Dame history, and nament, which begins tonight in Athletic Conference with a 23-7 double figures. 'all of these teams are talented," 6-2 sophomore Sandy Bothan has Amarillo Texas, Di Stanislao overall record and an 11-1 con-And USIU was running up the she explains. "The thing that's dif­been on fire in thelast part of the realizes tha; rankings don't mean a ference mark, averaging over 84 scoreboard all season long, Notre ferent now, as compared to the seaoon. thing in post-season play. poin per game with a devastating Dame stressed defense, finishing se­rugular season, is that they are all Botham has set an Irish record by 
"I don't even think about being runn. g attack. cond in the nation in field goal either conference winners or second­scoring in double figures in 18 ranked No. 1, " she says. "It's very "U :. International is a running percentage defense as they held op­place finishers. Every one of these straight games and has averaged 15 flattering but you still have to go team much like Detroit," says ponents to under 38 percent. teams is coming off a good season points and eight rebounds over that our and put the ball on the floor. As DiStal slao. "They're second in the Limiting the opposition to an and has been playing well down the stretch. She is currently ranked everyone saw from what happened nation in point production and average of 59 points put the Irish stretch." sixth in the nation in field-goal to the men in the NCAAs, a high­they've also got an extremely quick ninth in scoring defense. But the Irish have also played will ranking and 25 cents only get you a and talented -player named Toya Wheter or not Notre Dame gets in the latter half of the season, win-see NWIT, page 13 
ND baseball team goes to Calif. 
By TERRY LYNCH of 16-4. Brigham Young, at 8-5-1, end, Vanthournout accounts for Sports Writer is ranked 22nd by Baseball America four of the five Irish errors so far and 20th by ESPN. on the team. Tim Hutson follows 
The Notre Dame baseball team Gallo is pleased that his Irish, at closely in the RBI category with 12, will be packing its bags for Califor­6-2, were fortunate enough to be a good deal of those coming in nia today as it takes a six-game win­able to play all eight games on the from his team-leading three home ning streak into the prestigious schedule before spring break. runs. California-Riverside Baseball In­''We've never had a team here, at As a team, the Irish are batting at vitational for seven games during least since I've been around, that a .317 clip, 22 points higher than spring break. has played eight games by March their opponents. They have scored 
It won't be sunshine and palm 17," he said after Monday's 70 runs in eight games while steal­trees for the Irish, however, doubleheader _sweep of St. ing 10 bases in 11 attempts. because the competition they will Joseph's. On the pitching end, the Irish face over the next week will be Gallo may be also just as for­staff has a 5.68 ERA, but only some of the toughest in the coun­tunate to have a seven-day hiatus to Kevin Chenail (9.24 ERA) has pit­try. Brigham Young and Tulane heal his injury-plagued team. Steve ched more than 10 innings. Irish headline the invitational that will Skupien (flu), Mike Rogers (pulled opponents, as a testament to the also pit the Irish against Cornell, hamstring), and Ken Soos (bad devastating hitting so far, have Oregon State, Washington, ankle) all played with injuries in compiled a less-than impressive Wisconsin and host Cal-Riverside. Monday's doubleheader. 10.02ERA. 
"I'll be happy to come back with The outlook on Tom Shields 
a .500 record in California," said does not look promising. Shields, Coach Gallo's yardstick for Irish head coach Larry Gallo. "Of the senior shortstop and co-captain measuring the quality of the Irish course, we're going to go in there of the team, is still recuperating team will come in the form of the trying to win them all, but with from some off-season surgery on California-Riverside Invitational teams like Brigham Young, Tulane his knee. and afterwards should be able to and Oregon State, it'll be tough. "The problem with Tom is that see if his prediction of the Irish as 
. And we'll probably get to see he's had the kind of surgery that I "a sleeping giant" will come true. everybody's number one (starting think makes you feel better than After the tournament, the Irish pitcher)." you actually are," said Gallo. play host to Chicago State on April 
Both Brigham Young and Tulane Shields is not likely to play on the 1 and then travel to Valparaiso on TbeOIIoonw/DNws-dllr appeared in the Baseball America trip. the second and a doubleheader at 
Irish forward Trena Keys defends against a Tennessee player in Top 25 and the ESPN Collegiate Rich Vanthournout leads the Bethel on the third. The next Irish a game earlier this season. Keys will lead the women's team as it Baseball poll. Tulane started this team in hitting with a .414 average, home baseball game after the break begins play in the NWIT today. Marty Strasen previews the tour­week 18th in Baseball America and runs RBis (13), hits (12) and three will be four games against Wiscon­nament in his story above. 25th in the ESPN poll with a record stolen bases. But on the defensive sin on April 5-6. 











