Challenger -page 4 


Supreme Court rules Exxon inflated prices 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court yesterday made final the largest monetary judgment in American history to be upheld on appeal by telling Exxon Corp. to pay more than S2 billion for inflating oil prices. 
The court, with no recorded dis­sent, let stand ruling.-; that force Ex­xon to pay refunds and Interest for overcharges of S895 million on the 1975-81 sales of oil from a Texas 11eld. 
The money, totaling about S2.1 billion, will be deposited by Exxon into the U.S. trea.o;ury, and then will be distributed to the states based on estimates of energy consumption durin~ the six-year period. 
Most consumers of gasoline and heatin~ oil will receive no cash. States must spend the money on energy conservation -such as weat­herizing hospitals and schools -and on helping the poor pay their home utility bills. 
Exxon Chairman Clifton Garvin said he was "extremely disap­pointed" by the Supreme Court's dedsion not to hear the corpora­tion's appeal. Be said Exxon will pay the judgment from available resources and by taking short-term loans. 
In other matters yesterday, the 'court: 
•Let the Reagan administration put into effect, at least temporarily, regulations aimed at combating drug and alcohol use by railraod workers. 
The regulations require train crews to undergo breath or urine tests as soon as possible after a serious rail accident, and require such tests whenever there is "reasonable cause" to believe an employee is under the influence of drugs or alcohol. 
•Voted 
5·4 to give states the legal authority to prevent bankrupt businesses from abandoning property that poses a threat to the public health and safety. 

The justices barred the trustee of a bankrupt waste oil storage com­pany doing business in New Jersey and New York from abandoning facilities contaminated with highly toxic chemicals. 

•Ruled 
unanimously in a case from Washington state that provid­ing public aid to handicapped people studying for careers in the ministry does not offend the con­stitutionally required separation of church and state. 


The Supreme Court also took 
see EXXON, page 4 

Slip, sliding away 
This Cavanaugh Hall resident, sophomore Pete Pellegrino found that nothing stopped himfrom playingfootball in the snow. Yesterday may havefound moststudents keeping warm inside, but severalfound a wet and challenging game on the North Quad. 



Thatcher battles to get Parliamental support 
A..Moclat~d Press 
LONDON -Prime Minister Mar­garet Thatcher battled shouts of derision and calls for her resignation yesterday In what the news media called a life-or-death Parliament speech to rally her Conservative Pany from the embarrassment of two major Cabinet resignations. 
Thatcher won solid backing from her Conservatives, Including former Defense Secretary Michael Jleseltlne, whom she had blamed for sparking the political cr1s1s. Heseltine had said he was leaving be­cause the prime minister had used unconstitutional means to steer the Cabinet toward favoring an American bid over a European at­tempt to rescue Britain's failing Westland PLC helicopter company. 
Thatcher won a technical vote to close the raucous, three-hour debate in the House ofCommons by 379-219. Her Conservatives have a 14 3-seat majority in the 650-seat house, but the significance ofthe ac­tion was that nearly all her party members were present and voted together. 
During the debate, opposition legislators accused her ofa cover-up involving a leaked letter, critical of Heseltlne, that subsequently led to the resignation of the second Cabinet member, Trade and In­dustry Secretary Leon Brittan. He took responsibility for the news leak. 
Thatcher said in her speech to a raucous house that both-matters could have been handled better. The opposition erupted in derisive laughter. 
David Owen, leader ofthe centrist Social Democratic Party, told Com­mons Thatcher "is not worthy to hold the high office that she does." 
Labor Party leader Neil Kinnock had called Monday's emergency debate, saying it was to determine if Thatcher was Involved in the leaking ofthe letter and ifshe had lied in ear­lier statements to Parliament. 
Thatcher maintained that for 16 days after Brittan leaked the letter onJan. 6, she did not know of his in­volvement. 
She said an inquiry determined that the letter was leaked to the news media as a result of a misun­derstandlng between officials of the Trade and Industry Department and bureaucrats at her No. 10 Downing St. office. 
"I did not give my consent to dis­closure," the prime minister told Parliament. "It was not sought. And I have indicated I deeply regret the manner In which it was made." 
Brittan, who resigned Friday after Thatcher first disclosed his respon­sibility for the leak, backed her ac­count saying: "I accept full responsibility for the fact and form of disclosure ... I profoundly regret the way it happened." 
Heseltine, who left the Cabinet Jan. 9 following a confrontation with Thatcher, said her speech had ended the political row over the Westland affair. 
NO senate 
•

Increases campaign allotment 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
SentorSt4ffReporter 
The student senate Increased the amount of money a candidate for student body president can spend on the campaign and also heard an initial report ofthe senate's commit­tee on restructuring student govern­ment last night. 
The senate raised the amount a 
candidate is allowed to spend from 
S95 to S 125. Student Body Presi­
dent Bill Healy said the S951imit was 
too restrictive. "That's ( S95) very 
restrictive to Inform 7500 students 
about yourself," said Healy. 
Healy said that during his cam­paign he didn't have enough money. "The biggest one(problem) wa.~ not having enough to give people copies of the platform. Posters aren't the biggest draw, it's the ideas," he said. 
Brian Holst, chairman of the com­mittee on restructuring gave the senate a report on the commlttes first three meetings. In the report Holst said a "tentative" concensus had been reached on several issues. He said that anything In the report can still change, however. 
The report states "Each dorm on campus will have one senator on the senate with the exception of Grace and Flanner, which wiU each have two senators. Off-Campus students will be represented by two senators. The decision on whether or not the classes will have voting representives on the senate has yet been determined." 
The preliminary report also gives the student body president veto power over any decision made In the senate, although the veto can be overruled by a two-thirds vote ofthe senate. 
The report also creates five stand­ing commltties chaired by a presidential appointee. The five committies would be a Student Con­cerns Committee, a Student Life 
see SENATE, page 4 



Awareness week to remember efforts ofTom Dooley 
By SEAN NEALON  Saturday  afternoon.  University  Award and the National Award of  underdeveloped nations.  Aspecial exhibit on Dooley's life  
News Staff  President  Father Theodore  Hes­ Vietnam,  that  country's  highest  One of Dooley's last,  most in­ is  currently  on  display  In  the  
burgh and Executive Vice Presi­ honor.  spiring letters, written  to  Father  Memorial Library concourse. Also,  
Today marks the second day of  dent  Father  Edmund Joyce  will  He  was  also  presented  with  Hesburgh, remains at the Grotto as  the library's audio learning center  
Tom  Dooley  Awareness  Week,  preside  at  the  dedication  commendations  by  Presidents  a  reminder  of his  s;~crifice  and  is featuring several speeches read  
honoring the memory of one  of  ceremony.  Dwight Eisenhower and John Ken­ humanitarian  effort~.  and authored by Dooley.  
Notre  Dame's  most  After  graduating  from  Notre  nedy, the United States Congress  
inremationally-known alumni. Dooley, who studied at the Uni­versity as an undergraduate, won  Dame, Dooley went to St. Louis University to study medicine. He graduated from SLU in 1953 and  and Pope Pius XII. He was also recipient .. of the first World Humanitarian Award.  Week's events named  
world-wide recognition when he  traveled to North Viet Nam  as  a  Dooley was stricken with malig­ 
brought  medical  relief  to  Sout­ medical officer In the Navy. There  nant cancer while working over­ The  events  of  Tom  Dooley  former personal secretary and the  
heast Asians during the 1950s.  he assisted in the evacuation of  seas  and lecturing in the United  Awareness Week are designed to  Chairman ofthe Board ofDirectors  
He died ofcancer In 1~61 at the  more than 600,000 refugees.  States. He died on Jan. 18, 1961, a  familiarize the campus community  for the Tom Dooley Heritage, Inc.  
age of 34.  Dooley served as director of a  day aft.._.· his 34th birthday.  with Dooley's achievements. The  on her work with Dr. Dooley.  
One highlight of the week will  refugee camp which often treated  Throughout his later life, Dooley  events are scheduled as follows:  
be a speech by Teresa Gallagher,  more  than  15,000 people dailv.  lectured extensively in the U.S. He  •January 30-4:00 PM at the Center  •February 1· 2:00 PM at the Grotto.  
Dooley's  former  personal  Later, he established several hospi­ was also the author of three books  for  Social  Concerns.  A  slide  Dedication ofthe Dooley Statue by  
secretary and friend, according to  tals  to  deal  with  some  of the  about his experiences. In his books  presentation by the Tom Dooley  Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.  
Larry  Skendzel,  publicity  coor·  curable diseases of wat vk:tims.  he achieved the dual purpose of  Heritage,  Inc.  celebrating  Dr.  and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C.  
dlnator of the week-long event.  He  was  presented  with  calling attention to the plight of  Dooley's life and influence.  •February 1-half-time ofthe N.D.  
Among  the  week's  featured  numerous  humanitarian  awards,  the refugees while raising money  •January 30-8:00PM at the Center  Marquette  basketball  game.  The  
events will be the dedication ofthe  including the Congressional Medal  to  support  the  hospitals  he  for Social Concerns. A lecture by  Dooley Award will be represented  
Dooley  Statue  at  the  Grotto  on  of  Honor,  the  Legion  of Merit  founded in Indochina and other  Teresa  Gallagher,  Tom  Dooley's  to this year's honoree, Ann Titus.  


Tuesday, January 28, 1986-page 2 
Of Interest , 
That's Entertainment at Saint Mary's tonight will include the Notre Dame student band "New Age Mothers and the America Dream" from 9 to 11 in· Haggar College Center's Chameleon Room. The band is an acoustic rock band that plays songs from Neil Diamond to the Grateful Dead. There is no admis­sion charge and free food will be served. -The Observer 
Toastmasters International will meet tonight 
at 6 in room 223 Hayes-Healy.-The Observer 
Chile: Slides and Stories, will be a program at 7 tonight in the Center for Social Concerns. Notre Dame graduates Ceci Schickel, Brian McGlinn, Jack Schneider and Kathy Bego will share their experiences as Holy Cross Associates in Chile. -The Ob­server 
PeterMcPherson, administrator ofthe Agency for In­ternational Development, will give a lecture titled "The Scope ofU.S. Famine Relief' tomorrow at noon in the Notre Dame Law School's student lounge. In 1981, President Reagan appointed McPherson administrator of AID, an agency which oversees and directs U.S. economic development operations in more than 60 Third World countries. Prior to his appointment as administrator, McPherson served as a legal advisor to Reagan. McPherson's lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School's Thomas]. White Center on Law and Government. -The Observer 
SpiritualRock, a Christian Fellowship group, will hold a second semester organizational tonight at 7 in the library lounge. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Housing Contracts have been issued for the 1986-87 academic year by the Office of Student Residences. In order to be eligible for room picks the signed housing contract must be returned to the Office ofStudent Residences by Monday, Feb. 3.-The Observer 
Juniors Interested in lectoring for the 1986 Junior Parent's Weekend Mass on February 22 should call 283-2626 by 7 tomorrow night. -The Observer 
Men on on-campus waiting list: there are empty residence hall spaces. The Office of Student Residences has at­tempted to contact every person on this waiting list. Those male students who are on this priority list should contact the Office of Student Residences immediately If they are interested in living on­campus. -The Observer 

Weather 
Let it snow. Let it snow. Today there is a 20 percent chance oflight snow with highs near 10. Tonight, a 40 percent chance of light snow with lows from 5 to 15. Tomorrow there is a 20 percent chance oflight snow with highs near 20. -AP 


Design Editor.............Jane: Anne: Rledford Design Assistant.............. Tracy Schlndc:lc: Layout Staff............................... Rob Luxem Typesetters ...................... Suzannc: Hammer 
Bill Highducbc:ck News Editor................... Cindy Rauckhorst Copy Editor ........................ Margie Kersten Sports Copy Edltor...... l!rlc Scheuermann VIewpoint Copy Editor.. Maura Mandyck 
VIewpoint Layout.......... Melinda Murphy Features Copy Editor.......... Eric Bc:rgamo Features Layout ................ Sharon l!mmite ND Day Editor...................... Ray Szafranski SMCDay Editor.................... Priscilla Karle Ad Design .................... Catherine: Ramsden 
Allison Fahrc:nhoft Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky Typlst .......................................... Collc:en Foy 
lbe Observer (LISPS '>99 l·-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbeObserver is published by the: students orth" University or Notre: Dame: and Saint Mary's College:. Subscriptions may be: purchased ror J30 per year ( JlO per sc:m.,st.,rl by writing lbe Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dam.,, Indiana -l6'>'>6. 
lbe Observer is a member or lbe AMoclared Pftss. All reproduction rights are rcsrrvtd. 


Room picks might arrive early for some Saint Mary's students 
With spring break only 38 school days away, the time has come to think about next fall and where you want to live. And the next obvious question would be, with whom, Ifanyone, do you want to live? 
You may think it's too early to start thinking about next year and where you want to live. But the Saint Mary's annual lottery will soon be here and all Saint Mary's students will know their room assignment before they leave for spring break. 
According to Pat Rissmeyer, director ofresidence life and housing for the College, Feb. 1 7 will be the most critical ofdays as it is the final day for room deposits to be paid. At that time, all students who have paid their deposit will have their name put into a lottery and anxiously await their number. This, in turn, will be the determining factor for their room assignment. 
Augusta lottery will take place on March 10 and room selection will be on March 11. Seniors-to-be will pick their rooms on Saint Patrick's Day, March 17. Juniors will pick their rooms on 


Margie Kersten 

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
divided into four sections. 
•The 
first is on habits and preferences. Questions on how much sleep a person needs as well as individual study habits are posed. It is important for students to consider all facets ofacademic, social and personal life before they choose a roommate. In some situations it is possible to be good friends with someone, but impos­sible for them to live with each other. 

•The 
next series of questions focuses on feelings. This 


deals with how a person may act when they are upset, confused, lonely, or 

March 18, with sophomores pressured. Many times, choosing on March 19-20. people will interpret others' According to Minni sadness or depression Owens, coordinator of against themselves; the per­housing for the College, son may feel her roommate many times people will join is mad at her, when actually 
together and make up aquad she is depressed or maybe or quint because they want she just feels like being so desperately to live in a quiet. This can in turn cause 
certain dorm or thcty are in a added pressure, and un­hurry to get a certain kind of necessary confict may arise. room. Owens noted, This conflict could be non­however, that sometimes existent If people learn 
students are forced to live in more about the person they a quad or quint because that decide to live with. is their only choice. •The third section is labeled 
Owens commented that "Reacting to each other." there are approximately Here students discuss how 300-350 room changes they are similiar or different 

yearly and the majority of these changes are because of personality conflicts. Owens also said a good number of room changes hap­pen over the summer before student& even come back to school. Either students realize they don't want to live with a certain person anymore or they want a different 
room. 
In all the dorms combined there are a total of 60 quads and quints. This in itself may be the problem, but students also can take steps to prevent an unhappy living situation. 
It is important to be comfortable with the atmo­sphere of your room. A dorm room should be a place where you can be you. With all the pressures ofschool, family and just plain life, a dorm room should be a relax­ing place to hang out. 
In order to help with the decision of choosing a roommate(s ), the department of residence life and housing has developed a series of questions that perspective roommates can discuss. The pamphl~t is 
and what exactly they may have to compromise on while they share a room. Stu­dents also can discuss what they have learned about each other, thus far, by discussing the questions raised. 
•The last section focuses on things to consider. Here students are encouraged to ask themselves what they want out of a roommate: friendship or independence. Students are asked to give the pros and cons ofliving in a single, double, triple, quad or quint. By making a men­tal list of these points, students will be able to make an educated decision, and the chance of being unhappy will be lessened. 
Rissmeyer noted If students have questions about who they should live with they should contact the department ofresidence life and housing. 
So, it might not be a good idea to wait for 38 school days before you decide who to live with. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 
How you live 
• &Jnlt.dWIIy 

may save your life. 



The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1986-page 3 


'Serious deficiencies' discovered in quality of refotmed Medicare 
WASHINGTON · The first hard look at quality control under recent Medicare reforms has found "serious deficiencies" in procedures that are supposed to protect America's elderly from incom· petent, indifferent or greedy doctors and hospitals, a senior government Investigator says. 
The review of more than 4,700 cases that were flagged by watchdog Peer Review Organizations as suspl· clous uncovered a few striking ex· amples of physician ineptitude or hospital Indifference to patient health· and a general indifference by the PROs to policing those abuses. 
The results prompted an unusual "early alert" by Inspector General Richard Kusserow to the Health and Human Services Department, privately warning that the review was uncovering serious problems In the Reagan administration's heralded reform program. 
"The early findings of our lnspec· 
lion have disclosed serious 
deficiencies," Kusserow said In his 
Nov. 25 memo to McClain Haddow, 
the acting head of the department's 
Health Care Financing Administra· 

Dr. Tom Dooley Awareness Week Thursday Jan. 30 at Center for Social Concerns 
4:00 Slide Presentation on Dr. Dooley 
8:00 Talk by Teresa Gallagher personal friend and co-worker of Dr. Dooley 
Come learn more about Dr. Dooley's life and commitment others 

lion. "We have found numerous cases of substandard care In which there was little or no action by the PROs .... 
"We are deeply troubled by the ineffectiveness of the existing procedures used by PROs to review cases of substandard care," he said. "We believe that It Is imperative that HCFA take strong action to place more emphasis on PRO respon· siblllties." 
Haddow, in his response, told Kusserow he was surprised by the inspector general's conclusions and disagreed with the assessment of their severity. 
"It is not reasonable to expect that all possible problems will be an· ticipated or that snags and delays in implementation will not occur (in new programs)," Haddow said ofthe problems Kusserow described. 
Kusserow, in an interview with The Associated Press, said he stood by the assessment in the "early alert," a copy ofwhich was obtained by the AP. 
"You will never get the inspector 
general of this department to say 
there isn't a big problem out there. 
There Is a oroblem," Kusserow said. 

But, he added, the cases reviewed covered a period from October 1983 through last May, a period during which the reforms were new and review organizations still were feeling their way. 
"A lot of these things were in the early stages," Kusserow said. "As the PROs have been phased In, as they come aboard, they are beginning to work better and better." 
Kusserow's inspection Involves the potent political question of whether quality health care for the elderly is being sacrlfied in the drive to reduce the federal spending, as many critics charge. 
Faced with soaring Medicare costs, the Reagan administration in 1983 launched a "prospective pay· ment" system for Medicare that dictates in advance how much the government will pay for a specific ailment. 
The system controls. medical costs by putting hospitals on a budget. Quick, efficient care means profit; dawdling means losses. But critics charge the system sabotages quality, pressuring hospitals and doctors to discharge patients before they are ready. 
Reagan to address union 
WASHINGTON · President Reagan's fifth State of the Union address, tailored for a television audience tonight, will be shorter and more visionary than his previous four, White House offi­cials say. 
But It will launch three days of hard-sell by a president who will flesh out the details ofhis agenda in a variety of appearances around Washington later In the week. 
The speech, to a joint session of the House and Senate, will be broadcast live by the major radio and television networks begin· ning at 9 p.m. EST. 
Reagan, who came to Was­hington five years ago committed to shrinking the size and reach of the federal government, Is ex-



r--------------------­
1 
Have a nose for news? 
Ifyou do, The Observer 
news department needs 
you. There will be a meet­
ing for new reporters on 
Thursday at 7:30p.m. 
in Room 118 Nieuwland 
Hall. Please attend if you 
are interested in being an 
Observer news reporter 
this semester. 
pected to renew that struggle, ar­guing that people are better off making their own financial deci­sions than paying taxes to a government that decides what to do with their money. 
It Is, one aide said privately, an effort "to redefine the role of the government for the next decade and Into the next century." 
Presidential spokesman Larry Speakes said the speech wiU "deal more with themes and Ideas and goals ofthe president ... than the specifics and nitty-gritty of the legislative process." 
The president will send a more detailed written message to Capitol Hlll tomorrow setting out his specific goals for this ses· slon of Congress. And he Is scheduled to make a tour of federal agencies to promote key elements of his program. 
Juniors 
& 


Seniors 
in Engineering, PhYsics, 
Chemistry and Math, 

Earn Over $1000 A Month While Still In School! 
It's oart of the Navy's Nuclear Prooulsion Officer Candidate Program. And the money you can earn while still in school is Just the beginning! 
After graduation, you will receive graduate level tratning valued at $30,000 and begin work as a technical manager with immediate authoritY and responsibilitY. This is the only orogram of its kind in the world. 
To qualifY you must be between the ages of nineteen and twenty-six, be in good health and meet stringent academic reauirements. 
A Navy Engineering Programs Specialist 
will b~ on campus February 5 & 6. 1986 
For more information call toll-free 1-800-382-9404~ Mon-Wed~ 8:30am-2Pm. 
------Lead the Adventure------__..... 

1986 


CILA WORKSHOP 
IIFor tife, not for Credit, Living as a Catholic." 
An Informal workshop with RAY RUFO on Integrating our faith Into our lives both now and after Notre Dame. 
Saturday, Feb.1 10:00-3:00 PM Includes Mass and lunch sign up at the esc by Thurs. Jan. 30 ALL WELCOMEI 
The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1986 -page 4 


Strong winds again reschedule flight of space shuttle Challenger 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. · The flight of schoolteacher Christa McAuliffe on space shuttle Chal­lenger was postponed yesterday be­cause of strong winds that built up during the more than two hours that technicians wrestled with a balky hatch bolt. 
"We are going to scrub for today," said NASA spokesman Hugh Harris, announcing the third postponement for the flight in as many days. Offi­cials reset the launch for 9:38 a.m. EST today. 
Although the weather was perfect at the scheduled launch time of9:37 
a.m. EST, the problems with the hatch started about an ltour before that. They were not resolved until shortly before noon when workers used a hacksaw on the bolt after con­tending with the late delivery of tools, a drill with a dead battery, and 

Senate 
continued/rom page 1 
Committee, a Social Committee, a Student Business Committee, and a Finance and Budget Committee. 
The idea behind the new structure is to centralize student government, Holst said. "All we are trying to do is make things more coordinated so they run better," said Vince Willus, committee member. 
Under the new structure, the Stu­dent Activities Board would become part ofa senate committee. This con­cerned SAB manager Lee Broussard. "I firmly believe the SAB should remain the way it is. It's doing its job now," he said. Broussard said the proposal to put the work of the SAB under a committee with senators as voting members is "stupid." 

Exxon 
continuedfrom page 1 
these actions Munday: 
•Turned 
down the appeal ofAnna Hauptmann, widow of the man ex­ecuted 50 years ago for the kidnap and murder of Charles Lindbergh's inf.mt son in NewJersey. The appeal sought, in effect, to exonerate Bruno Hauptmann. 

•Ruled 
7-2 in a case from Amarillo, Texas, that criminal defen­dants convicted after wrongly being forced to stand trial together are not always entitled to new trials. 

•Agreed 
to consider blocking trial of a lawsuit again~t a judge and owners of a car dealership by a White Plains, N.Y., woman who says she was arrested falsely for not paying a car repair bill. 

•
Refused to revive a libel lawsuit filed against the Atlanta Constitution by William Shockley, a controversial figure because of his views that ra­cial differences in intelligence are inherited. 


broken drill bits. 
By the time the repairs ended, the winds strengthened and sent gusts of30 mph whipping across a runway where Challenger would land if there were an emergency after lif. toll Winds of more than I 7 mph are considered dangerous for a landing. 
Launch director Gene Thomas called off the effort about 12:30 p.m., the third weather postpanement in as many days for the flight. 
The seven astronauts, including 37-year-old McAuliffe, the first ordi­nary citizen named to a space flight, had grim looks on their faces as they returned to their quarters. 
The problems began when microswitches failed to confirm that the shuttle's hatch was closed properly. Technicians put a ring of tape around the circular opening and an engineer climbed in the cabin to verify the door would shut. 
The workers then were unable to 

"The SAB will never become a senate committee. I don't think you have to worry about that," said Wil­lus. 
In other senate business, Healy told the senate that presently, there are no plans to expand the North Dining Hall even though two new dorms are planned to be built on North Quad. Healy said that Notre Dame Food Servive Director Bill Hickey said he wouldn't be able to handle the increase with the present facilities. 
Willus also announced a Valentines Day dance that will be held in Stepan Center. "It's going to be a quality event," said Willus. Ticket prices will be kept low and a "wedding style" band will play. All the proceeds will go to the Multiple Sclorocis Foundation he said. 
remove a "frozen" bolt that holds a hatch handle that is not needed in flight. They called for a portable drill and a hacksaw, but only a drill was sent, and it took 35 minutes to reach the launch pad. 
When the technicians tried to use the drill, they found that its battery was dead. Ten minutes later, the hacksaw and a second drill with a spare battery pack arrived. But the bolt was too hard and it chewed up the drill bit, and the bolt was finally cut away with the hacksaw after two hours offrustrating labor. 
Because of the long delay, Chal­lenger's guidance platform had to be realigned, forcing a holp in the countdown. As the hours passed, a cold front moved in and the winds became too strong. 
During six days in orbit, the crew of the Challenger is to launch two satellites and McAuliffe is to teach two lessons that will be watched by students in hundreds ofschools. 

Christa McAuliffe yells to well wishers as she leaves the crew quarters at the Kennedy Space Center enroute to the Launchpad. At right is Mission SpecialistEllison Onizuke. The space shuttle Chal­lenger is scheduled to be lauched later this morning. Story at left. 

Saint Mary's Board of Governance discusses problem of early arrivals 
ByELLYN MASTAKO 
SeniorStaffReporter 

Students arriving early to school after vacations, or breaks was the 
main topic discussed  at  the Saint  
Mary's  Board  of  Governance  
meeting last night.  

According to the College's present rules, only members of the board of governance and the orientation committee may return to their rooms before the designated days. 
There have been problems with roommates, friends, and sisters of these authorized students taking advantage ofthe earlier arrival times said Pat Rissmeyer, director of residence life and housing. 
She asked the board to make suggestions to remedy the problem. 
Also discussed was a "Toast to the New Year Dance Party" to be held in the Haggar College Center parlor on Friday, Jan. 31. The dance party is 
, sponsored by the College. 
Student Body President Ann Marie Kollman announced that all three candidates for Saint Mary's College president will be inter­viewed in Chicago this weekend by members ofthe Board ofRegents. 
Also discussed by Christian Life Commissioner Cath Dahle was the series titled, "Spiritual Roots" which will be held every Wednesday in the Stapleton Lounge. The series is part 
of , the  Saint  Mary's  Center  for  
Spirituality.  
Dahle  also  announced  that  a  

family in South Bend is asking stu­dents to help them with their autis­tic son. 
In other business, Professor Ann Loux of the English department will speak this week on author Flannery O'Connor. 
Technical managers from Tl's Semiconductor nology into our customers' next~generation Group will soon be on campus to interview products. graduating electrical engineers and computer So bring all the technical skills you can scientists with hardware backgrounds. muster. Because clients will be looking to you 
Current openings are for positions within for systems solutions that will advance their Tl's Semiconductor Technical Sales and Mar-products-and your career. keting organization. Perfect for grads who Excellent "people skills" are required, as can't stand being confined, either personally well. Since the way you deal with customers or professionally. today will affect their 
Your challenge attitudes about TI
On 1] b 5&6 is to represent ce mary ' long into the future. Tl's Semiconduc-Speaking of the future, 
~eiV'.l~ Instruments 
tor Group to the .1' ~ semiconductors have a Who's Who of High great one. The fact is, 
~chnology, in areas wants to meet these silicon chips are ~he hke consumer electron-' Ia h bt very nucleus for emergmg 
ics, robotics, com~ a ew c ustrop 0 :f,c technologies. And will 
puters, and I! be for years to come. telecommunica~ • So if you want a head tions. Your clients are start in your high-tech career, 


engilleers.
major Fortune 500 compa-sign up. And le~s see if you've got nies, and venture capitalists who plan to be. what it takes to be a TI Semi-But that shouldn't make you nervous. Not conductor Technical Sales Engineer. when you've got Texas Instruments behind you. Keep your interview calendar open for 
Semiconductors are Tl's principal business, February 5 & 6. And reserve your and our reputation for innovation in this field appointment by contacting your Place· goes way back. In fact, we invented the inte-ment Office. Appointments are limited grated circuit. And to this day, we remain a and will fill up quickly. world leader in the development and applica~ But if you hurry, we can probably still tion of semiconductor technology. squeeze you in. 
Now it's up to you to carry this reputation An Equal Opportunity forward. By designing TI semiconductor tech-Employer M/F 
TEXAS. 
INSTRUMENTS 

ANTI-VIOLENCE•~ ' ~ VOLUNTEERS 
Center for non-Vlole~~~ce ...king full-time ataff. 
Lodglftl. t1J4MO., I HNIIII cot'. 
f/luMc ,,.,.,....,....tell.
,.,..,...,.,............ 
.....,,.,COUtaM on IICNII­
..._..,...,_t~~tt 
N•tioui~OfiT.r.~ locaiWItt CM~Ip11 Nl'fto U.oltiMtiOA 
OM,_tcomlftlttmHL 
11'Ga0...,_,.UIHIaUpMd. 
C.U:2f7·31U-f!l20 
SuulraJUnato: 
TluNnu -cld,M.D. ll<»t 2157, C/wnpa(p.IL 
IllGO 

-----------~ ------­



~i~~~_()__i_Il___t_________________T_ue-sd-ay,_Ja-nu-~-2-8,_19-86--p-ag-eS 
Nuclear weapons distribute death to men equally 
Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbac­hev has offered a plan to eliminate nuclear weapons from the face ofthe earth by the year 2000. Sounds too good to be true. Scene shifts 
Jeffrey M. Leggett guest column 
to an idyllic meadow bathed in golden sun­light. Uttle children, junior Communists and Young Republicans alike, pick daffodils and frolic in unison, freed at last from the specter ofnuclear war. 
Or picture a more likely scene. The defense budget reaches a new high, now devoted entirely to the maintenance of conventional forces. The draft returns, in the form ofuniver­sal conscription. Something is profoundly upsetting about these weapons which have shadowed our every move for forty years. I speak not oftheir ability to obliterate our major cities at a half­hour's notice, though that may be cause for some consternation. It is upsetting that we may not even want to dump these weapons. Granted, the mere chance ofa computer gaffe, or of a nuclear weapon fillling into the wrong hands, may bode well for their elimination. In­


stead, the quality ofSoviet-American relations 
has been largely a function ofour proximity to 
an arms-reduction agreement. Nonetheless, 
there is a compelling temptation to preserve 
nuclear weapoQ.s, and the balance of terror 
which is incident to their existence. 

War has been characteristic of man throug­hout history. The aggressor nation enters war seddng a certain end, be it territory, the natucal or human resources of another country or liberation from an oppressor. Sure, there have been costs. Men die, families are torn apart, property is destroyed, entire cities may be vanquished. It is all part ofa neat little equation for the leaders. That .Ia, if the end to be achieved by fighting the war, discounted by the probability of attaining that end, out­weighs the loss of lives and economic resources, then fight. 
In the nuclear age, the war equation can never compute in favor of waging an un­limited war. The losses would infinitely out­weigh any benefit that could possibly be achieved. For the first time in history, nothing is to be gained through a total conflict of the world war variety. Leaders throughout history have used wac as a device to further their own or their nation's aggrandizement. Now war no longer serves its purpose. Nuclear weapons have rendered it impotent as an economic or political tool. Is it safe to assume that, in the face of such odds, the rational leader would never incite an unlimited war? 
The Soviet Union itself lost millions of sol­diers and civilians during World War II but, in the process, extinguished Hitler and emerged as the second most powerful nation in the world. Stalin surely deemed it a bargain. Today there ace no such bargains for Gorbac­hev or Reagan. 
Nuclear arms have slapped the reality of war smack in the face of those who hold the power to make war. Now, for those who sit In map rooms plotting troop movements, for those who feed casualty forecasts into a com­puter, war means death. War now means death for the leaders, just as it always has for the innocent men whom they have forced to bear the costs of their booty. No longer can we throw into battle those unfortunate enough to draw tf!e sttort straw, intoxicate them with drivel about the glories of war and retreat into our shelter, praying that their sacrifice will result in a better life for the rest of us. For in such a war there is no shelter, no survival. 
Yes, it was a tragic day when man dis­covered how to convert the energy ofan atom into a force capable of mass destruction. But human history, a history in which military conflict has played so prominent a role, has also been tragic. So we may rid ourselves of nuclear weapons, but we would not be rid of war's eternal scourge. Arising out ofevery age of turmoil have been idealists foolish enough to envision a world without war. Could it be the fate ofmanldnd, that it can only realize this dream with a gun at its head? 
jeffrey M. Leggett is a second-year law stu­dent at Notre Dame. 

I 1 
,l 
P.O. Box Q 
The crossword puzzles appear in wrong place 
Dear Editor: 
Not meaning to take any importance away from the usual Viewpoint issues, I would like to address an entirely different topic, yet one that is quite important to me. 
Why must a guy need to take japanese paper-folding classes just to figure out how to fold The Observer so that the crossword puzzle is showing? Why can't the advertise­ments be in the center and the crossword logi­cally be placed in the corner? 
It seems sensible to me that folding a paper three different directions is clearly a waste of time compared to the traditional one fold (along with one prefolded way). 
I find nothing more frustrating than to be sitting at a crowded lunch table, at a small school desk, or in the ever-popular bathroom stall while trying to fold my Observer so I can do the crossword puzzle. And when I do get it folded, I can't move it, or it all unfolds again. Do I need scissors? Do I need tape? Am I the 
Doonesbury 
weJ..Ca,ft 8KX, Zf)'{K. 
I IA/AilT70TaL.HOW CEI3PI-Y stFI?fI AM AEJOUT Ya.R UNCI.I3'S 
$1/S&..=',.,..--,.,...~ 

only one with this problem? 
Why can't The Observer drop this "new frontiers" idea of interestingly-placed cros­sword puzzles and just follow tradition? Let's put the puzzles back in the corners where they belong. What you're doing is not logical; it's not sensible; it's just not American. 
Anthony Zirllle Alumni Hall 


Apartheid supporter should keep up work 

Dear Editor: 
I believe that I have discovered the reason for Chris Edwards' "stupid" articles. Edwards is a closet activist working to end the evil of apartheid in South Africa. He writes his ar­ticles in order to gain support for the anti­apartheid movement by pointing out the absurdities of apartheid and those who stand behind it. 
Intentional or not, let's hope he keeps up 

the good work. 
Mark Groggin Notre Dame Student 


Stop treating symptoms and get to the source 
Dear Editor: 
All week long I have been bombarded with 
actlcles on the problem, both moral and legal, 
of abortion. I hold that in all of these, the 
wrong problem is being addressed. 
In this country, in this century, I am won­
deting why the question ofwhether or not to 
undo a baby ever has to come up. Yes, I agree 
that there are times (i.e. rape cases and com­
plications of pregnancy) when unwanted 
pregnancy is not the result of a couple's 
negligence. But I don't believe that these 
things account for thousands of unwanted 
pregnancies. 
I also don't believe that maldng abortion il­
legal will stop rapists. Let us get to the root of 
our problems. Rather than waste time and 
money sending buses of people to Was­
hington to sit on the White House lawn, I sug­
gest we work for constructive solutions to the 
REAL problems, those being ignorance, crime 
and irresponsibility, to name a few. 
Right to Life Club: send out people to ed-
Garry Trudeau 

IT'S A 7C/lRJ8LE  /IHNAU:SSAIOANlJlXJNt, AFfl?l{  NO,IAIHAT7  
J1JS5, MAN. OtJK&  THe OtJSTHA5~1WlJ7Ht ew­ ~(j(Jf7{)  
/AIAHO..!iO..PiftL,  tesHAVI3 /JffeN COIJ.ITlill, r»<e IAIIU.  54Y50ME7HIN6  
1£r~ Pt1T IT7HI§  813REMEM813/lElJA5..A5..1J{••/d!:JJ..YfJJ  AT TIE SfW!t:e.  
WAY..  KNOW.  '-...  
~:;;;;:~ "2::9~~~  



__.__The_Obset:Ver-_. 
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the Independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. II does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strat1on of Glther Institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. leners and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through leners. IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank lipo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ........................................... Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
ucate our teenage public. Women: Stop being so meek, take back the night. People in general: Be more responsible in your sexual activities. Not so easy? Who said it would be? There are also medical problems to work on such as birth defects. These are just a few meager suggestions of what getting to the roots might involve. 
Also, each time I read in The Observer how terrible it is to have an abortion, I don't read how It is to be an unwanted child. I rarely hear of positive alternatives to abortion for either the kid or the mother (at least I have now heard of a pregnancy help center). Who will donate the money set aside for a new stereo to a children's home instead? 
People trying to adopt children tell me there ace not enough children to go around; people trying to find homes for children claim there are not enough homes. Does anybody know what the facts are? I would appreciate the publication of these facts in this respon­sible newspaper. 
Stop treating the symptoms and cure the disease. 
Gay E. Canougb Physics department 

Quote of the day 

"H the devil doesn't ex­ist, but man created him, he has createdhim in his own image." 
Fyodor Dostoyevski 
(1821-1881) 
"The Brothers Karamazov" 

Operations Board 
Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck AdVertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan AdVertising Manager .................... Anne M. CuHigan Systems Manager......................... MarX B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3,1966 





Accent 
Computers make 
life easier for 
r 
r 

ND students
r 
r· 
r 
r 
r LEICESTER CHEONG 
features writer 
T 
he he computer is probably the best tool that man has ever devised. Although computers have 
r zero IQs, they never make mistakes and are fast and hard workers.
r 
Humans on the other hand have
I 
r superior intelligence, but they always make mistakes and are relatively slow and lazy workers. As most engineers and business majors will agree, a dynamic combination results from adding the two. 
Students in the science and in­dustry related fields are not the only ones who use this wonderful tool. A computer facility in the College ofArts and Letters enables students of non-science oriented disciplines to learn and take advantage ofthe computer's ver­satility in making life easier. Located on the second floor of O'Shaughnessy Hall, the facility can be used by students for word processing, statistical computing, and even financial accounting on the personal level such as balancing one's checkbook. 
The facility's 15 Apple Macin­toshes and 11 printers are simple to operate and practically no formal background in computers is re­quired. This suits the purposes of the college, explainsJeffVuono, an economics and computer major and facility assistant. According to Vuono, students in the college rarely have any need nor desire to indulge in hard-core programming or complex engineeringcomputa­tions, even though the computers are capable ofdoing so in any com­puter language. Instead, these stu­dents take advantage ofthe Macintoshes for classroom assign­ments and homework, preparing resumes and term papers, storing personal data, categorising letters, or just for fun. After all, the Macs are fun to play with sometimes. They 
also help to introduce basic com­
puter skills to the arts and letters 

students, some ofwhom will never ·get a chance to even touch a 
keyboard otherwise. 
The Macintoshes in the facility 
are ofthe "closed-system" type, 

which means that each terminal and 
printer set is independent ofeach 
other, sharing no memory or 
processing units other than the 
same electric socket. This set-up 
parallels that of the popular "PC," 
the personal computer. Personal 
computers are generally found in 
family homes and small businesses, 
and they aid in small-time account­
ing and recording purposes. The 
facility's set-up is advantageous to 
students as it provides for an early 
educational exposure to the per­
sonal computer which they might 
eventually buy after graduation to 
assist in personal or even family 
accounting purposes. Word­
processing in the facility is done 
with the "Mac-Write" system, of 

which the latest version is available. 
JohnJorden, an Economics/ALPA 
junior, has had little exposure to 
computers since high school. Now 
he finds them extremely useful in 
school assignments and personal 
management. According toJorden, 
the Macs are easy to use and he has 
had no problems so far. His senti­
ments are shared byJenny Flynn, a 
Government/ALPA sophomore. 
John andJenny are a few ofthe 
arts and letters students who have 

learned to appreciate the computer. 
The facility encourages others to 

join them, and assistants are present 
at all times when the facility is open 
to offer assistance and advice to 
beginners. Other members ofthe 
Notre Dame community are also 
invited to participate and use the 
facility's hardware. The hours are: 8 
a.m. to 1 a.m. from Monday thru Thursday, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Fridays, 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Satur­days and 1 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Sun­days. 


This laser printer in the Computer-Math Building helps students to do , 
Reagans endorse favorite causes 
AModated Pre88 INDIANAPOUS -Matching his­and-her billboards featuring Presi­dent and Mrs. Ronald Reagan touting the couple's favorite causes have been unveiled in Indianapolis by Kiwanis International. Aspokesman for Kiwanis, which is based in Indianapolis, said more than 4,000 of the billboards will be erected nationwide. "The response has been tremen­dous," spokesman David Blackmer said Friday. "I can't think ofany other persons that we could have had the same response." The billboards, placed side-by­side in some locations and stacked on top ofeach other elsewhere, tout two of the Reagans' favorite projects: drug abuse prevention and community food programs. Reagan endorses Operation Share & care, a national private-sector campaign to increase public sup­port for local food banks and meal programs for the needy. The bil­lboard says, "Support community 
food programs. Volunteerism makes a difference." 
Mrs. Reagan's sign reads, "Help save a generation ofchildren. Fight school-aged drug abuse." 

Blackmer said the billboards are tied to radio, television and print campaigns. All three national televi­sion networks and the Cable News Network have agreed to broadcast the Kiwanis spots featuring the Reagans, he added. 
The Reagans' public service advertisements are being under­written by the Kiwanis Interna­tional Foundation, which boasts 8,200 local clubs in 76 nations. 

"We wouldn't want to disclose the (cost) figures," Blackmer said. "Being a non-profit agency, we have a tight budget. But people in the television industry, the radio in­dustry and the billboard industry have been very, very generous." 
Blackmer said the Reagans agreed to participate in the Kiwanis program "because we asked." 






t ' t I' I
' 


Tuesday, January 28, 1986-page 6-7 
,(f/!\,:·' 
,·(;_.''~<:' 

1 
~ 
• ~ 
I 
---• 
I l 
~·. '".,~­
·:.%f, 
-~-~--­
...-.... 

·¥<··


&'.-.. 
;:. ' 


~ 
Edward Otis works on his MBA paper on an IBM computer 


Priest helps youths in need on the streets of New York 
MAUREEN LYNCH 
features writer 

M 
uttering uttering "bag ladies" 
huddled in the restrooms of 
bus terminals, expressionless 
drunks sprawled in doorwells, 
elderly figures pathetically search­
ing trashcans for returnable bottles. 
These scenes give painful testimony 
of the great numbers ofhomeless in 
our country. At what point in their 
lives were they forced to sacrifice 
self-dignity and hope in exchange 
for the barest level ofsurvival, and 
was such a trade unavoidable? 
Perhaps, given the right support 
at critical times in their lives, these 
Americans might not have had to 
give up such valuable parts ofthem­
selves. Such critical periods may 
arise early in their life. According to 
a 1980 Senate report, "between 
240,000 and 500,000 children and 
adolescents become homeless each 
year." Lacking guidance, ex­
perience, and employable skills, these youths face an unfair battle . and may become trapped in the 
destructive worlds of pornography 
and prostitution. 
An estimated 20,000 homeless 
children under 21 are said to reside 
in New York City alone. Attracted 
by the glamour ofbig-city life, some 
may have fled unhappy homes and 
others may simply have been 
kicked out ofthe house by parents 
unwilling or unable to cope. In the 
city, they are approached by sweet­
talking, persuasive men who 
promise to feed, shelter and protect 
them. Naive, or simply desperate, 
the youngsters follow the pimp and 
find themselves forced into a sort of 
enslavement. The results are rarely happy: an 1 1 year old ts arrested a seventh time for prostitution and once more is bailed out and reemployed by her pimp; a 1 7 year old is found murdered after keeping back a few dollars from the pimp who "owns" her; a 5 year old is abandoned for weeks by his drug­addicted mother. 
A Franciscan priest, Father Bruce Ritter, became aware ofsimilar accounts and was spurred into action. In 1972, he formed Covenant House. Its aim was to provide help to the neglected and exploited youths of New York City. Currently, an average of 200 home­less children and teenagers a night sleep at Covenant House, approxi­mately 70 percent ofthem victims of the multi-billion dollar sex in­dustry. In an Oct. 1980 Reader's Digest article, Dr. Peter Masella says, "These kids' bodies are maps of their lives. People have burned them with cigarettes, scarred them with whips and red hot coat hangers, and broken their bones. Many have VD, it's an epidemic with our kids. Many have tuber­culosis. Many are hooked on drugs; virtually all use marijuana, and a lot use angel dust. No one has given them value systems, and often their best instincts have been destroyed. I wish I had an intravenous injec­tion with a huge shot oflove in it. That would do more good than all the penicillin in the world." 
At Covenant House, not only are the kids' immediate needs ofshel­ter, food, medical attention and protection met, but they are also offered psychological and legal counseling, educational and voca­tional training, a Mother/Child program as well as spiritual support. 
jonathan Hill, one member of 
Covenant Community, a group of 
full-time volunteers who live and 
pray together, says that a main goal 
ofCovenant House is to restore to 
the kids their feeling ofself-worth. 
Poverty, he has learned, is not 
simply a matter oflack of money 
but a lack ofchoices. Through the 
care and commitment ofthe 
workers at Covenant House, some 
children do regain their pride and 
are able to break out ofthe vicious 
circles of their lives on the street. 
Hanging on the walls of the chapel at Covenant House is a series ofpictures, painted and donated by a religious brother who worked at the center. The paintings illustrate the story ofa young boy, mistreated by his environment, who is helped and gradually grows into a healthy, confident individual able to cope. However, the pictures make it clear that although the boy recovers, the injuries he has received are so serious that the scars will remain for life. In reality, sometimes the wounds never heal: over halfof the children Covenant House touches return to the streets, for its strong hold can't be easily severed. Home­less children grow to be homeless adults, the defeated elders one sees camped out on the sidewalks. "If you want to see what my kids will become," says Father Ritter, "just walk down 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues. You can't live for months on the street." 
Friday evening, Father Ritter will talk about Covenant House and the children it serves. Anyone in­terested in learning more about the program is invited to attend the lecture to be held at 7:30p.m. in the library auditorium. 
The Observer Tuesday, january 28, 1986-page 8 



Sports Briefs 
Irish football coach Lou Holtz will be the 
guest speaker at a meeting for all freshmen interested In becoming members ofthe Student Managers Organization. The meeting will be at the ACC football auditorium (enter Gate 2) at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Jan. 30. All those Interested but not able to attend should call the manager's office at 239-6482 before Thursday.-Tbe Observer 
A Schick SMC basketball tourney, for three-on-three teams, will be held beginning Feb. 5. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned byJan. 
29. No present or former varsity basketball players may participate. The winning team will go to regional play with the championship game being held in an NBA arena. For more information call the Angela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
A SMC doubles racquetball tournament will begin Feb. 3. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned by Jan. 29. For more information call the An­gela Athletic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
The ND Squash Club will be practicing this semester at the ACC courts every Monday from 7-9 p.m., Thursday from 4-6:30 p.m. and Saturday from 3-5 p.m. All members are en­couraged to attend each practice. For more information call William Mapother at 283-3451. -Tbe Observer 
lnterhall hockey teams may now register to practice on the ACC ice rink. A limit ofone hour per week per team will be imposed and the fee will be S50 per hour. For more informa­tion call Tom Carroll at 239-5247.-Tbe Observer 
, 

The ND Tae Kwan Do Club will be accepting 
new members until Thursday,Jan. 30. Classes will meet regularly on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in the ACC fencing gym. Bring workout clothes for practice. For more information, call Kerry at 288-5440.-Tbe Observer 
The ND water polo team will practice Wednes­day,Jan. 29 And every Wednesday from 9-10:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Any questions call Tom O'Reilly at 3588.-Tbe Ob­server 
The ND wrestling team won the National Catho)ic Tournament over the weekend. The Irish had a winning total of 118­1/4 points, followed by John Carroll with 83 points. Seton Hall placed third with 61 points, followed by Dayton (34-1/2 points), and Marquette (26 points). Notre Dame's Jerry Durso was selected outstanding wrestler ofthe tournament. -Tbe Observer 
Cross-country skiers may rent cross-country ski equipment from the NVA, every Thursday through Sunday at 'the Rockne Memorial. Skis, poles, and boots are provided and no reservation is necessary. Any students, faculty or stalf members in­terested should call 239-6100 for additional information.-Tbe Ob­
server 

A SMC co-ed volleyball tourney will begin 
Feb. 3. Teams must consist of 3 men and 3 women. Rosters can be picked up at the Angela Athletic Facility and must be returned with a SlO entry fee by Jan. 29. For more information call the Angela Ath­letic Facility. -Tbe Observer 
Hall of Fame elections take place today 
CANTON, Ohio -Quarterback Fran Tarkenton, who scrambled into the record books with numerous career passing records, and Paul Hornung, star halJback of the Green Bay Packers' glory years, lead seven contenders vying for induction today into the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
Because they were among the last seven to be considered before the five-man 1985 class was named, Tarkenton and · Hornung automaticaly were included in the final 1 5 for 1986 consideration. 
Over the weekend, Tarkenton and Hornung survived the cut to seven finalists for balloting by one media representative from each of 28 NFL cities, plus one member of the Pro Football Writers Association of America. 
Others on the list are quarterback Len Dawson, defensive back Ken Houston, linebacker Willie Lanier, wide receiver Don Maynard and running back Doak Walker. 
Tht• Ohsen·.-r :'l;otrl' DJml' otfkl'. lo<eatnl on tho: third floor of LaFonuno: Studt·nt Ct·nter. JtTt·pts tlassifkd adn·nismg from') a.m until~ p m .. :\lunda\ through Frida\" T'he Ohserr•er Saint \-tan··, offitT locatt·d on tht· th1rd floor of llaggar <.olkgl' <.t"nt<:r. anco:pts dassifkds from 12..~0 p m until .~ p m. \ton· dJ\ though I nda\ l>t-adllnt· lor nt·xt·dd\ tiJsSIIkd., is.~ p.m. !\II cla.-ifkds mu't ht· pn·pa1d. l"ither in per,on or h\ mall < lur~t· ''Io tl'llb pn fin·t·hdrdt·



Classifieds 
lt"rs o:r day. 
NOTICES 
Typing Availeble 287-4082 
$10.$360 Weeldy/Up Mailing Circulenl! 
Noqum.l 
Sincerely intereeted rulh 1811-addrMMd 
envelope: SuCCMa. P08ox 470CDD. 
Wood81ock. IL 60098. 
TYPING CALL CHillS 234-1117. 
An.ntlon: 8tuclenlla 
Dolone FIWide 
TYJIIna..,._ 
'-• P'*M NO. clwlee 
277..111 
TYPING IYaALLY 
272-71171. 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: SALES. CHALLENGING I 0000 TRAINING. CAI..L 3318 STEVE. 
DAVE FLANAGAN FORUMOC 
._ ....,_ ..,ted for ~ llwld with hom Mellon. Band rMdy to J*y veriety of <XNer mulic,origonllll pouibkl. cell BRIAN N0.2258 
TYPING T-...,_., ,_,_ .... W8, IIPPIIcella.._ 11-ai'IIMII ,.._; plcllllp a Mvery on C8111PU­..,......_ Clll c.thy 8c:hullz ...._ 11-10 p.lll. 277-11114. 
LOST: Notre Dame Boxing IWNIIhirt left In H.-rau«<torium after Tu~ night firwl. n you picked It up, pleMe cal me at 272-'1287 and let me know. 11'1 not mine 10 I realy need it back! R-d offered. 
LOST: Gold herringbone brecelet with tri color gold roee an.ched. REWARDIIIII cal Jackie m 2286. 
LoaT : THE MAllE OF THE PIEMON WHO HIT IIY CAll ON TAYLOR aTIIUT ON THE NIGHT IIFOitl ~!IIIEAK.IT WAa A DAIIK kUI DATaiN AND DION'T THINK IT. WAa lAO AT THE nilE, -.sT IT ~80Ift IIEPAIII. CALL ..KI AT DMIOI. 
DO YOU EAT LUNCH IN THE NORTH DINING HALL? DID YOU TAKE MY BLUE NOTRE DAME BINDER 8\' MISTAKE? IT HAS MY CLASS ADD SLIP IN IT, AND WHATEVER ELSE. PLEASE CAI..L IIATT PATIIICOIKI AT 232-6697 OR BRING IT TO THE LOSTIFOUND IN THE ADMIN BUILDING THANX 
FOUND: A COPY OF1//IJwon. byRicMrd Bach. nyou received thia book In May of '83 and can s;ve your name, cal Challea m N0.1537 or atop by 401 CevW*lgh. Thl1IIone book thatlhould not be rnilllid or 10111011en. 

Loet: green epiral notebook in c.-end P'-cement office on Tu• ~y. I know lf"l 111M eeriy, but there -e..,.. important not•thm I'd h•te to to... 11 you picked it up by mi-.ke, pi-c.M me at 3564. Tlwlks. 
FOUND: LEATHER GYMBAG IN SOUTH DINING HALL. PLEASE CLAIM ATLOST AND FOUND SECOND FLOOR LAFORTUNE.' 
LOST: ~~*it& White woveniC*f. On ilia a t.g -.ting it wu ~in Ireland. call nmatN0.1214. 
LoaT: One dinner .n. ....,. haw lillY O.Va ~n 1•1 
Dave for UMOC! 

YOU'RE PROBABL V IRISH ~you took the 1111111 Illig hanging oullide of 422 Wallh late Fr1~y night. Sa II ita owner, and it m....,. a lot to her. For Pete'l uke (or Paddy'l) pleale return lhl1 aouvenlr of great ti~ In Ireland to 413 or 422 Wllllh; no quelti~ wil be Mked. 
LOST Someone miiiiUingty look my GREEN OLIVE JACKET from Senior Bllr ea.t RUe Salur~y night. Janu-.y 25. Great lerlllmenWI vllue, PLEASE return, no quelli~ uked. call nm a.ker N0.2004.417 St.nford Hal 
LOST: A thick, ch81n-linked gold lncelet 
with a large clap. It -loet Fri., Jan. 17th. It ha Incredible eentimenllll value and cannot be r~. II you heve any 
informlllion, ~ cell ~en at 1884. Thank You. 
Loet: peir of light orange rim ~in a maroon cue. ~found cell Erin 284·5276 
Semi-furnilhed houl8 In good neighbor­hood 255-3684/2n-3e04 
N.D. Ave. Apt for rent -If inter•ted cal Shirley at 234-6647 
LARGE FOUR-BEDROOM HOME WIU ACCOMMODATE FIVE STUDENTS. COMPLETELY FURNISHED. 
WANTED 

Wanted: Girl Fr1~y. Peri time legel r-ch IIIICfeblry Cell 233-3432 
RIDE NEEDED TO ISU (NORMAL, ll) JAN 31. WIU SHARE EXPENSES. SUE 284-4122. 
...._...._,Ride wanted or wil ah.. ~. leave 1/31 return 2/2 Mark1738 
WANTED lnexpenaive electric typewriter In running condition. call 2311-5604 and Mk for Betty. Th•nl<s. 
Ride needed to Wlbuh College (Crewfordavlle. IN) or Purdue Univtnlty. Weekend of Feb.14-16 WiU lihue coeta. Cindy N0.2687 
Ride to CHICAGO needed-Sat 1FEB am, return late pm. call1423. 
Ueed figure lkalea wanted (lize 6). Cell 1423. 
Ride to CHICAGO needed-Sat !FEB am, return !tile pm. call 1423. 
Ueed figure lkatea wanted (lize 6). Cell 1423. 
Ride needed: CLEVELAND JAN. 31 Cal Peggy 284-5204. 
FORSALO 
11 It True You Cen Buy Jeepa for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the ,_ today! Cell 1-312-742-1142 Ext. 
7316. 
IIU8T UNLOAD FLOPPY Dl81<8. S1 PEII.IONZO1171 
1-WAY PLANE TICKET. S.B. TO D.C. FEB. 6. $60. 272-3530. 
TICKETS 
I need 2 IIQketbd ticketa, either GA or etudent, for either the Marquette u-ne on Feb.1 or the Dayton ~me on March 8. Cal Mike at 283-1843. 
I NEED :H TICKETS TO THE MAR­QUETTE GAME. G.A. OR STUDENT TIX. PLEASE CALL BIU AT 2001 
NEED: AT LEAST 2 TIX, G.A., FOR MARYLAND, FEB.3. CALL 2994 LORETTA 
I NEED MARO. OR MARYLAND GA'S.· 283-1639; JOHN 
NEED 4 MARQUETTE TIX. CAI..L DAVE 
1059. 
YES, I have $$$ and, VES, I am desperately ...king up to 4 (lour) ticketa to the Marquette ~mel!! Cell me 10 my friendl don't have to liaten to the ~me on the r.dlo. GREG-4186. THAT'S GREG -4186 
I NEED 2 G.A."S FOR MARYLAND GAME. CALL 2842. 
NEED 2-4 Muquette GA"I; CALL JIM at 2397;$$$ 
Need 2 GA'a for Marquette. call Tom al 1906. 
I NEED 2 TIX FOR NO VS. DAYTON BASKETBALL-STUDENT OR GA PLEASE CALL KATHLEEN-232-6299 
Helpf I delper•tely need :H Marquette GA'1. PI-cell Mike at3562. Thanks! 
I DESPERATELY need 1 or211ud. ticketa for Merquette/ND 8-bal ~me-very wil­ling to pey good S$11 PLEASE cd N0.4884 ASAP!! 
NEEDED: TWO MARQUETIE GA"S WIU PAY$$$$$$ DAVE 2n-9026 
NEED 2-4 Merquette GA'I; cell Eric at 1161.THANKS 
FREE SEX i1 out of the question, buti'H 
offer anything e11e for fOlK bcket. to the 
MARQUETTE 11-BAI..l GAME. Cal2169 
If you can help out. 
...............•.... 
Need 8 txalor Marquette b-ball ~me. c.ll 
284-4052 
PERSONALS 
•Iter fer to att~h ourteiV• to forever-thoughtl than to here-now f10118· nowthlnga. 
-Rlchud Bech. Thellrklge Act-F-• 
It il atrange how oftentimea the air apeal<s. We are1111e ulong u we hear voicea when there are none. We ere inane when we h-nothing and wcne we are deaf. 
• Celvin Miler, 
The...... 
Puffy: Gee, look at al that anow . . better get your boola! 
T.B. 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? Cal 234-()363. 24-hr. holline, counMiing I free pregnancy t-. 
WOIIEN'8 CAlli CINTIII 
OAII HOUR: COLD IEEIII UQUOR. CAIIIIY OUT TO I A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1 kOCK 80UTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
HOOP HYaTEIIIA T-8HIIIT8 Support Logan Center end the buketbaff team! Long and lhort lllevea Stop by Room 221 s .. nford or cell 2089/2078 for defivery 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap­plications deadline ia February 3. More Info at Center for Social Concerna. 
Ule /a rHIIy wonderful. -Kollki I 1/21/86 
I LOVE VOU ST. JUDE, jd 
otiMrverSI8fl.......,.: 
You are encoureged to attend a 81811 Forum Tu~y. ,..,, 21 ..7:10 p.111. In Room 118 Nieuwiend Science Hal. Bring your queationa, commenta, comptlmenta and criticiama. Refrelhmenta wil be 
aervec:t. 
"We Can Make You Laugh" on Febuary 8 il not YOU win S2tl 
Looking for Somewhere to Relex? Comejoinuaat THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT featuring "New Afle Molhera and the American Dream" Tu•.Jan28 &-11 pm Cemeleon Room HCC Lola of Free Food! 
THANK YOU JESUS AND ST. JUDE. 
JB 
JOHN KClaAYAaHI HAPPY .DAY. HAVE A GREAT 8EIIESTIII AND GIIAII ALL A'8. A 8ECIIIT ADMIRER 
SOPHOMORES!SOPHOMORESI NO I SMC ICE CREAM SOCIAL NIGHT!! AT CHRIS' ICE CREAM TUESDAY, JAN 28 10.12pm BRING 15 percent COUPONS 
No, all Mfe ilnot Hke the Clelvera. 
-THAT'S ENTERTAINMENT· Featuring: "New Age Mothera..." HCC Camelion Room-SMC 9-11 Tu• Jen 28. Free Food! Corne Over & Lillen To Niel Young, The Grateful Dead I Many More 
OISEIIVEII8TAFF FOitUII Don't forget!!!! 
Tout comprendre, c·..t tout pwdotlner. 
Merci. 
The Cellar 
The Cellar 
The~! 
Now open In the newly renovlled bele­ment ol t..Fonune... lt'1 The ~Ill 
The SAB announcea the rebirth of Rock duLac: lt"a blllfler! lt'a bettetl Youc.nevan ....lnl !1'1 The Cellar! Discount Recorda, Tapes, and a whole lot more! t..Fortune lluement 
Wily P•Y 8.98 or more loran elbum? Moat lingle albuma only 6.98 Maxel and TDK '-Pel at aupertow prices Everydlrl Only at The Celler t..Fortune belement 
sou GanerM Meeting Tuesday at 7:30p.m. in the Center for Sociel Concerns AI welcome 
OIIICIION DELTA INILON Firat monthly meeting Wedn-y, 
Jan.29 at7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerne Topica to be diacuuedlndudecurriculum reviaiona. feculty 18minar, and economlca newaletter. 
NUMIIY GOODLUCKI YOUII,INEMY/WIFE 
Hungry? CaR YEUOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: 5pm-121m Monday-Thuredly; 5pm-2am Fri~y; 3pm-1am Satur~y; 4pm-10pm Su~y 
SOPHOMORES!!! DON'T MISS TUBING AT BENDIX WOODS THIS THUR. JAN 30 FROM 8-11PM COST $5. SIGN UPS IN CLASS OFFICE. BUS LEAVING MAIN CIRCLE AT SPM. 

RIDE NEEDED TO ISU (NORMAL, IL) JAN. 31. WIU SHARE EXPENSES. SUE 284-4122. 
SMC SEXUALITY EDUCATION SERIES "KNOW YOUR BOD\': THE INSIDE STORY WHERE THINGS ARE AND HOW THINGS WORK" DR. EUYN STECKER M.D. 7pm JAN. 29th STAPLETON LOUNGE, LEMANS HALL 
DAVE FLANAGAN FOR UIIOC 
RALPH MASTRANGELO: HAVE A FABULOUS BIRTHDAY! GUESS WHO? 2907 
NEW OIILEANa CLU. ME--­COilE TO THE IIIETlNG TUU., JAN. 21 AT 7:JO P.II.IN 1111121 ZAHII HALL. IIAIIDI GAAa PLANa! NEW 111-1118 WIL.COIII. 
FANTASY ACTRESSES WANTED FOR (CLASS) FILM PROJECT X-1 n4 
A '10" lllwaya pull out! The 10th Annual KEENAN REVUE February 6,7,8 
To a1 the EM! Coeat lana and ~ti­Chi~ aporl8 lana who were pra)ing lhetthe a-.would to... we uy "Maybe next year!" 
Au.ntlon ........., c.p181n on .....,... 
~ nltlhw In~~= You're doing a great job. Keep up the good work.
y_...,.. 
Do you havea -lor.-? ~ you do, the Obeerver news department n-you. There wil be a new reporter meeting Thuredly at 7:30 p.m. in Room 118 Nieuwland Hal. Anyone intereeted in cover11Q8 of Notre Dame and Saint Mary"a il invited to attend thil important infori"M· tiona! meeting. 
Me thinketh that Grace Hal ia pecked to the raftera with men who enjoy tormenting 
hel~women! 
HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE Howard Hal pr...,ta 
the811nuel 
Hat-Tie P.-ty Setur~y Night W11o 11ya th.,.·a nothlrlfl to do In Febtuary? 
HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HAT AND TIE HATANDTIEHATANDTIE 
HOW WOULD VOU LIKE TO BE THE ONE REPORTING THE NEWS? THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPARTMENT 
NEEDSVOUI AI intereeted Notre Dame and Saint M-.y"aetudenll are encourllged to attend an informational meeting for new reportera thi1 Thuredly at 7:30 In Wortune'a Little Theater. Be there and get aet to win your lirat Pultzer Prize! Any queationl, cal D•n, Frank, or T-at 23&-5313. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
To the One and Only Scound Queen, Congredut.tiona on your Chri1tenlngll 

The Observer Tuesday, January 28, 1986-page 9 
Men's swimming team goes 1-1 on road trip to push record to 2-3 

BySCOTI INGLIS 
Sports Writer 
With just four more meets left before the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships, the Notre Dame men's swimming team ( 2-3) finally returns home this week after having been on the road since Dec. 12. In dual meet action this Friday, the Irish will take on Oral Roberts and St. Bonaventure starting at 7:00 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Last week, the Notre Dame swim­mers completed their road stint by traveling to New York and facing St. John's and Fordham. On their first night in the Big City, the Irish were clipped by the Red Men 58-55, as St. 
John's rallied Jate'to take five of the last six events. 
"It was a close meet all the way," commented first-year Irish coach Tim Welsh. "We started off strong, but St. John's would not let go and came on strong in the end." 
However, Notre Dame was not to leave the Big Apple without first taking a bite. The luck of the Irish returned when they defeated Fordham 63-50. Jim Dowd (Murraysville, Pa.) swept the freestyle sprints by posting a 22.2 in the 50-yard race and a 48.6 in the 100-yard event, while also swim· ming a leg in the 400-yard freestyle relay ( 3: 16.1 ). 
Dowd's performance, coupled with the efforts of his teammates, gave Coach Welsh much reason for optimism heading into this week. 

"It was a great way to end the trip," remarked Welsh. "The team really pulled together after such a tough Joss the night before. It's easy to get down on yourself, but the spirit of this team is tremendous. 
"Coming home will be nice after being on the road for so long," con­tinued Welsh. "Oral Roberts and St. Bonaventure have strongswimmers, and this weekend's meet is going to be a tough one. If we take both teams, we would push ourselves over the .500 mark. The men have the enthusiasm and the winning tempo and want to continue our recent success." 

Brown, two-mile relay stand out at Western Michigan track meet 
ByJOHN COYLE 
Sports Writer 
Both the old and the new per­formed well for the Notre Dame track team Saturday at the W es­tern Michigan Relays, a non-scoring meet. The experienced quartet of seniors Robert Nobles, John McNelis, Jim Tyler and junior Jeff VanWie won the two-mile relay in strong fashion, while sophomore Tim Brown, making his collegiate debut, took first in two events. 
APPboto 

Cbtcago Bears fans celebrate tbe team's victory In Super Bowl XX Sunday nigbt In New Orleans. Yesterday, tbe victorious Bears were 
treated to a tlckertape parade In downtown Cbtcago. 

You'r~ the man in charge. And you can handle it. Because the Navy has given you the management and technical training to get the job done. 
Thirty men report to you. And what you do includes the care and responsibility for millions of dollars worth of sophis­ticated equipment. 
At age 22 you can be a leader in the Navy. With all the decision-making auth­ori~y you need to help you match up to 
your responsibility. 
The rewards match up too. A solid starting .salary of $19,000, and up to as much as $32,000 in four years with regular promotions and increases. 
Responsibility and rewards. It's the way you measure success in the Navy. 
For more information, call toll-free 1-800-382-9404, Mon-Wed, 8:30a.m.-2p.m. A Navy representative will be on 
campus February 5th and 6th. 
NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER 
The Irish two-mile relay team got its season off to a quick start with an impressive time of 7:29. According to Notre Dame head coach Joe Plane, it is one ofthe top three times in the country at this point in the season. The time qualified the foursome for the IC4A's and was only two seconds away from the NCAA Championship qualifying time. 
"If we ran a hair better, we would have qualified. They probably feel like they should have but I'm confi­dent they will do it before long," said Plane. 
Brown, a split end on the Notre Dame football team, was somewhat ofan early surprise to the Irish head coach since the talented sprinter had not competed in track since his senior year in high school. 
"He ran really well. Both were very good times. I was a little surprised at how quickly he has developed," explained Plane. "But Tim is so talented and has rounded into shape so quickly that he has made up for the lost time." 
The sophomore's time of 6.32 in the 60-yard dash missed the NCAA's qualifying mark by a 1Oth of a second. It was good, though, for the IC4A's as was his winning time in the 300-meter dash of 34.77. 
Another Notre Dame football player, Brandy Wells, also turned in a strong performance for the Irish with a IC4A qualifying time of 6.48 in the 60-yard dash. Other top Iri1:!1 finishers were sophomore Rick Mul­vey and senior Tom Warth, who tied for sixth with a solid time of8:32 in a very competive 3000-meter race. Freshman David Warth, younger brother of Tom, had another good time of 2:30.82 in the 1000-meter meter run. 

In the field events, sophomores Rick Muench and Chris Matteo had the best finishes for the Irish. Muench, with a long jump of 22.3 feet, finished fifth in that event. In the pole vault, Matteo was also fifth with an effort of 14 feet. 
Overall, Plane said that he was pleased with Notre Dame's perfor­mance in the meet, which took place in Kalamazoo, Mich. It included teams from Michigan, Michigan State, Marquette, Purdue and Central Michigan. 
"How can I argue with the two­mile relay team and Tim Brown's showing? Both are extremely good and they can only improve," said Plane. 
The schedule gets more difficult for the Irish, since this was their last non-scoring meet. They now must prepare for the Midwestern Col­legiate Championships this Saturday at the ACC. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Ifyou haven't met us yet... 
No•'s the timet 
we're friendly, convenient, good 
yet affordable. 
$6 haircuts 

The Varsity Shop I Edison Rd. at St Rd 23,
2n-oos1 
Open6days Evenings until 7:30 


HDW WOULD YDU LIKE IZD.DD7 
Bal..the.,_, 1._.for tile •tiUI..t Aetlvltla .._r•••new 1tora: 

Entrlee muat be In Ink on 81h x 11 paper. 
Submit them to the TicketStub (buement ofLaFortune) 
by February 7th. Include your name, addreu, and telephone number, 



The Observer Tuesday, january 28, 1986-page 10 
Fencing teams remain unbeaten with five victories over weekend 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men's and women's fencing teams continued their invincibility this past weekend by winning five of five matches in Chicago. 
On Saturday, the Irish men faced and defeated squads from Chicago, Wisconsin and Michigan-Dearborn, while the women did the same to their two opponents, Wisconsin and Chicago. 
"Michigan-Dearborn and Chicago really did not have that tough of a team. However, I was surprised at how Impressively we defeated Wis­consin," said Notre Dame fencing coach Mike DeCicco. "I think the momentum from the Chicago and Michigan matches carried the team right through Wisconsin. 
"We fenced a little better than I had expected us to. I thought the matches would be a little closer than they were." 
The Notre Dame men easily trounced Chicago to start off the ac­tion on Saturday. Against Chicago, the scores were: epee 6-3, foil 7-2 and sabre 9-0, for a final tally of Notre Dame 22, Chicago 5. 
The Irish followed this landslide victory with another against Michigan-Dearborn. The scores in this match were: foil 9-0, sabre 9-0 and epee 7-2, for an even more con­vincing 2 5-2 win. 
Next for the Irish were the defending Big Ten champion Wis­consin Badgers. The match, however, was not nearly as close as expected. Notre Dame won easily, 20-7. The scoring breakdown was as follows: foil 8-l, sabre 6-3 and epee 6-3. 
• 

Charles Higgs-Coulthard 
These Impressive wins upped the men's record to a perfect 7-0. The Irish will face their toughest op­ponent this weekend, at home, when the defending national cham­pion Wayne State Tartars come into town. 
"The kids fenced very well this weekend against some tough com­petition, but we must sharpen all three of our weapons to stay with Wayne State this weekend," said DeCicco. 
Going undefeated in the foil this weekend for Notre Dame were Mike VanderVelden ( 4-0), Charles Higgs­Coulthard (5-0) and Yehuda Kovacs (4-0). 
Outstanding in the epee were Christian Scherpe ( 4-0) and Tim Vaughan ( 4-0). 
In the sabre, senior Don Johnson was perfect at 7-0. 
The women were also very im­pressive this weekend, as their two wins Improved their ledger to 6-0. 
Against Chicago, the Irish dominated from beginning to end with a 16-0 win. The Badgersproved to be tougher, but not too much so, as Notre Dame won this handily as well,I0-6. 
Cindy Weeks went a perfect 4-0, while sophomore sensation Molly Sullivan went 3-I to lead their team to 26 wins in 32 matches 
SENIOR...NEXT YEAR... What wiU YOU do?????? 
THINK ABOVT ITI 

Application DEADLINE: January 31. Mary Ann Roemer (7949) I M.J. Murray (5521) 

APPhoto 
Boston Celticsguard Dennisjohnson (3) reaches in to knock the ball awayfrom Los Angeles Lakers guardByron Scott in the Celttcs' victory last Wednesday night in Boston. Boston beat the Philadel­
phia 76ers, 105-103, in action Sunda.:!.Y.:.·-----------' 
opportunity to apply your Christian faith through SERVICE and COMMUNITY LMNG. 
HCA Volunteers are in: 
Hayward, California Avondale, Arizona Portland, Oregon Colorado Springs, Colorado 
.. 
• 

Find out from those who know. Come discuss ..Life after Notre Dame" with members of the National Alumni Board. 
When? Jan. 30th, 9:00p.m ••... Where? Rotunda .......• -Administranon 
-~~flfiJIIf"""' 
• •••••••••.... 

H'll be a great trip! Get a group together, or join us for 7 days and nights of fun on the slopes and in the Club House. We'll stay at a luxury condo, Marina Place in Dillon, Colorado. Free lift tickets for 6 days to Breckenridge, Coppermountain, Keystone and Arapahoe Basin. Free Shuttles daily to all ski areas. Date: March 23-30. Round trip transportation from South Bend. Call237-5334 for more information and tree brochures. Reservations close February 20. Don't miss it! 

AIR· LAND· OCEAN 
TRAVEL 

$549perperson 

~~.cllC3L~---------------------------------------T_u_e_s_d_ay_,J_a_n_u_~__
2_8_,_19_8_6_-_p_a_ge---11 
Bloom County Berke Breathed Gary Larson 
Zeto 
.MIO Hf!R£ I..Al>IES A/IJD 6ENTLE1"£11l IS THf! ~ UI3AAR'r'l> PRIPE AND <X>Y, 
TH~ Al-fW LE/IR/IIIf\16-CEN~. 
IINP 1HY?c•.1HY<!'5 5'181/.l. SH€1'H(!(P... 511€~ WMKING ~Y•. 
CIII?/5TMI/5 5TrxKING5... I .• Ilrl 
I?IIMIM7 ICE ON liCK 5fiai(.P(R5.. 
• ON H€f< ~CK... ON... 
\ 
NOW, NOT' ONL.'f CAN A STtJDENT ~A /'LA'< ~ SH~~, 1-lE CAN AJS() Hf~ rr. 
T'HIS '{OUNG-MAN SEEMS 10 3E t>ELVIN6-INTO HIS W~. Cl'CI.tSc HE SON, ~~ MA5TE'RPIECE ARE 'f(XJ 1-IST'mii\I&TO~ 
MIL.Ta\1 's"PAIW>ISC 1-DSf,' 
DANTES"INFJ:RNo: •• 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Berate 6 WWII service 
grp. 10 Rhyme scheme 14 Asian capital 15 Aleutian 
island 16 Stage piece 17 "Dallas" name 18 Earl-
Biggers 19 Needy 20 Behind a ship 22 Pose 23 Hercules' 
captive 24 Cup handle 26 Nlghtwear 28 Hong Kong cab 33 Charged atoms 34 Bitter herbs 35 Denims 37 Pro­40 Neon locus 41 Incursions 42 Deceptive talk 43 Plggery 44 Jackson or 
Helms 45 Unspoken 46 Czarname 48 Rain lightly 50 Garden 
structures 53 "Oz"man 
material 54 Soviet range 55 Actor Johnson 57 Blazing 62 Dispatch 63 Cain's victim 65 Houston pro 66 Diplomacy 87 Fatigue 68 Nehru's land 69 Corrida cheers 70 Termini 71 Tilts 
DOWN 1 Meta' park 2 Raven cries 3 Step -I 4 Solo 5 Stray 6 Bankroll 

©1985 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
7 Comic Roscoe 
of old 8 Nautical term 9 Window items 
10 Romanway 11 Witch's transport 12 Word in a 
Yale song 13 After in Aries 21 Slangy 
turndown 25 Indian princes 27 Nigerian city 28 Coarse file 29 Nastase of 
the nets 30 Awareness 31 Knowledge 32 Erich­
(Houdini) 36 Expert 38 Satan's work 39 Doleout 41 Fix up 42 Vermeer or 
Smuts 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

C L A M A U R A S A C T S A I D A S P U R T S D R A P E E R S D N A R S W A N 
IIIIIIIE D S SPATULA D E P L E T E D S P I N­E A u• D E G A S S E C T S E S N E D I V 0 T S H 0 P DECKS SILOS.ERA 
1-H ENS DEIP L 0 RED 
BALSAMS M A Cllllll 
N 0 NIE RAN T S L 0 R E C H EIT T R EAT A V 0 W H A SIH S E E R S R A P S 
44 Poke 
45 Metallic wrap 
47 Air. grass· lands 49 Inlet 50 Zest 51 Of space 52 Polio doctor 
56 Wimp 58 Queue 59 Robert or Alan 60 "Meet-
St. Louis" 61 Epochs 64 Bandleader 
Brown 
~~/?/ C:W, 81./TZ£~/.f... 
I 
Kevin Walsh 
Campus 
•12:00 
P.M.· Brown Bag Seminar, "Brazilian Public Enterprises: Objectives, Patterns of Finance and the Question of Autonomy," Sil­via Raw, Kellogg Institute, Room 131 Decio Hall 

•3:30 
P.M. · Graduate Seminar, "Shear­induced Diffusion and Transport of Cake Layers," Dr. Robert Davis, University of Colorado, Boulder, Room 356 Fitzpatrick 

•4:30 
P.M.· Seminar, "Daphnia· Holopedium Field Competition Studies: Where Next?" Dr. Carl von Ende, Northern Illinois University, Room 283 Galvin Ufe Sciences Center 

•4:30 
P.M. · Mathematical Colloquium, "On the Rationality of Quotient Spaces," Dr. Nicholas Shepherd-Barron, Columbia Univer­sity, Room 226 Computer Center-Math Build· ing 

•6:30 
P.M. · Informational Meeting, "Information Meeting on Study in Jerusalem," Dr. Isabelle Charles, Notre Dame, Room 420 Administration Building, Sponsored by Foreign Study Programs 




Another case of too many scientists and not enough hunchbacks. 

•7:00 
P.M. -Presentation-Reception, for Management, Marketing, Arts and Letters seniors and MBAs with Marketing or Manage­ment concentrations interested in the media, Alumni Room, Morris Inn, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:00 
P.M.· Saint Mary's Basketball, SMC vs. Goshen College, Angela Athletic Facility 

•7:00 
P.M. · Film, "Ballad of Gregio Cortez," Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Modern Language Department, 51 donation 

•7:30 
P.M. · Meeting, F.L.O.C. · Notre Dame Support Group, Center for Social Concerns Building 

•7:30 
P.M. · Film, "Bizarre, Bizarre," Annen· berg Auditorium 

•7:30 
P.M.· Faculty Senate Meeting, Rooms 21 0·214 Center for Continuing Education 

•9:00 
· II:00 P.M. -Band, That's Entertain· ment, New Age Mothers and the American Dream, Cameleon Room Haggar College Center, Sponsored by Saint Mary's student government 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Polynesian Chicken HaddockJ ardinare Cheese & Rice Croquet BBQ Pork Hoagie 
TV Tonight 
7:~P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP In Cincinnati  
28  Wheel of Fonune  
8:00P.M.  16  TheA-Team  
28  Who's the Boss?  
34  NOVA: "Tile Goddess ofEarth"  
8:~P.M.  28  Growing Pains  
46  Skylite Cavalcade  
9:00P.M.  16  Riptide  
22  CBS Tuesday Night Movie  
28  Moonlighting  
34  Odyssey  
46  Lesea Alive  


Saint Mary's  
Salisbury Steak  
Breaded Baked Fish  
Corn Dogs  
Cheese Souffle  
10:00 P.M.  16  Remington Steele  
28  Spenser: For Hire  
34  Campaigning on Cue  
46  Dwight Thompson  
ll:OOP.M.  16  NewsCenter 16  
22  Eyewitness News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the Lord  
ll:~P.M.  16  Tonight Show  
22  Simon & Simon · "Madigan Park  
Avenue Beat"  
28  ABC News Nightllne  
34  Star Trek  



S~orts 

Irlsb wrestler Carl Htldtnger struggles to stay on pound class in tbe National Catboltc Tournament top of an Illinois State wrestler tn acffon two over tbe weekend. Rick Rietbrock details the weekends ago. Htldtnger was victorious In tbe I 18-tournament below. 
Irish wrestling team performs well in National Catholic Tournament 
By RICK RIETBROCK people just outhustled everyone Besides Wisniewski, 142-pound Sports Writer else." Pat Boyd and I 58-pound Dan Car­That hustle enabled six Irish rigan also earned second-place 
Notre Dame continued its out­wrestlers to capture titles, including honors, while heavyweight Spero standing wrestling by scoring a con­freshman Jerry Durso, who was Karas came away with a third-place vincing win in last weekend's named the Outstanding Wrestler of finish. National Catholic Tournament in the Tournament. Durso tallied a pin The Irish posted 12 falls or techni­Cleveland, Ohio. and two technical falls in gaining top cal falls, including six in first-round 
In gaining the victory, the Irish wrestler honors, a selection that matches. That early-round success 
won six weight classes, finished McCann said was no contest. was extremely beneficial, according second in three classes, and finished "If he wasn't selected, they don't to McCann. third in another to reach the goal know a good wrestler if they see "The early rounds are great op­
Head Coach Fran McCann had set one," he said. "I'm very happy for portunities to get extra team points before them. him." because usually you are up against a "We needed a contribution from Durso, hvwever, had plenty of weaker opponent," he said. "We everyone," said McCann. "We help in supporting the Irish cause. needed those big scores early in the wanted everyone to place in the top Carl Hildinger and Dave Carlin tournament." four in his class." posted one pin on their way to cap­The Irish completed their sweep 
The contribution from all sources turing the I 18-pound and the 126-of tournament honors when helped the Irish score 118.25 points, pound titles, while Chris Geneser McCann was named National Cat­tops in the eight-team field. The host pinned two opponents in claiming holic Coach ofthe Year. team, John Carroll, finished second the title at 167 pounds. "That kind of honor is always 
with 83 points, while Seton Hall John Krug and Dave Helmer nice," he said. "But we have some placed third with 61 points. captured championships at I 77 some really good kids here." 
The impressive performance set pounds and 190 pounds, The Irish travel to Central Mic­aside some of McCann's uncer­respectively, with each recording higan to face the Chippewas Friday. tainties going into the tournament. one pin. McCann says that he has confidence 
McCann singled out a couple of in his squad. 
"John Carroll has a good wins by Helmer and Ron Wis­"Central Michigan will be a tough program," continued the second­niewski, a second-place finisher at meet for us," he said. "They're a year coach. "They've dominated this 150 pounds, as especially critical. good team and we'll need a couple tournament for years, and being at "Helmer and Wisniewskei won of upsets to win. their place, I wasn't sure how a semi-final matches that we just had "Our kids are sky-high though, young team like ours would react." to have, despite the fact that they and their confidence is really high 
"It's just tremendous for our team. were wrestling out of their weight after winning this tournament. We only lost 4 of 27 matches," he classes,"he pointed out. "They both Central Michigan had better be said. "The kids really hustled and beat guys from John Carroll and ready, because we're going to be showed a lot ofdesire and heart. Our really widened our lead." ready." 
Tuesday, January 28, 1986-page 12 
Women swimmers take two victories on trip 
ByANDI SCHNUCK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team returned home successful after meets with St. John's and Fordham, improving its overall record to 4-2. Swimming on the road showed little effect on the women, as they beat St. John's 79-61, and Fordham 60-44. 
"We swam extremely well against St.John's," said Coach Tim Welsh, at­tributing the win to the girls' strong start in the first halfofthe meet. "We controlled the meet after the first few events and were able to pull the win out from there." 
In Friday night's meet the Irish came out strong with three straight first-place finishes, in the 200-yard medley relay, 200-and 1000-yard freestyle, and led 20-4 in points after only three events. This set the pace for the rest of the meet, as the Notre Dame swimmers won 11 of 16 events. They also claimed second­and third-place finishes in nine events. 
Leading the Irish women in in­dividual performances was junior Suzanne DeVine with three first­place finishes against St.John's. She took the 1000-and 500-yard freestyle events in I I :05.5 and 5:21.6, respectively. She also con­tributed to the winning effort in the 200-yard medley relay with Barbara Byrne, Tracy Johnson and Venette Cochiolo, with a combined time of 1:55.8. 
Also leading the Irish swimmers was senior co-captain Cochiolo, who added wins in the 100-and 200­yard breaststroke in I: 11.0 and 
2:33.2. Sophomore Amy Darlington and freshman johnson racked up ad· ditional points with strong efforts in the I00-yard freestyle, as well as in­dividual wins in the 200-and 50­yard freestyle events, respectively. 
The women swimmers' depth gave them strength in most events, according to Coach Welsh. This helped them take first, second and third-place finishes in. so many events. Even when the roster was rearranged to have fresh swimmers in new events for the meet against Fordham on Saturday, the Irish still dominated, winning seven events. 
Comingoffthe tough meet against St. John's, the Notre Dame women 

might have had fatigue as a factor 
against them, but a less powerful 
Fordham provided little obstacle to 
them. 

Suzanne DeVine again led the 
Irish with victories in the 200-yard 
freestyle and butterfly events with 
times of 2:02.07 and 2:17.0, as well 
as contributing to the 400-yard med­
ley relay win with teammates Byrne, 
Cochiolo and P.J. Amherg, in 4:35.8. 
Coach Welsh noted the 200-yard 
butterfly event as one that was par· 
ticularly strong for the Notre Dame 
women. 

"This is a powerful event for us; 
this weekend we placed five dif­
ferent girls in the top three spots in 
this event." 

Other highlights included wins in 
the 500-yard freestyle by Anne Cos· 
tello in 5:32.85 and in the 200-yard 
individual medley by Amy Dar­
lington in 2:18.32. 
One ofthe key performances over the weekend was by sophomore diver Andrea Bonny. While tallying two wins offthe 1-meter board and a win and second-place finish off the 3-meter board, she also qualified for the NCAA Division I zone diving championship. lbis will enable her to compete within the region, hoping to move on to the NCAA na­tional championship. Bonny is the first Notre Dame diver to achieve this. 
Md. tickets available 
Special to The Observer 
Students without season basket­ball tickets will have a chance to be on hand for the Notre Dame­Maryland clash slated for Monday, Feb. 3, at the ACC, the ticket office announced yesterday. 
There will be 77 bleacher seats for the Maryland contest available for sale to students tomorrow afternoon from 1·5 p.m. at Gate I 0 of the ACC. The tickets are part ofMaryland's al­lotment which were returned to Notre Dame. 
The tickets are $3 apiece, and the buyer must present a valid student ID. 
Skiiers encounter hardship on weekend trip 
Are you having one of those days where nothing seems to be going right? Ifyou are, then pay attention, for you are about to read the adventures of the ski team. 
Friday night on the way to Crystal Mountain in Thompsonville, Mich., the team took a wrong turn and added two hours to the average travel time. 
The following morning before the race, the course was hit by rain, creating icy skiing conditions. To make the race more challenging, a rather difficult course was laid out for the skiers. It appeared that whoever would finish the race standing would have a good shot at winning. 
K.K. Meyer ofthe Notre Dame women's team took a spill in her first race. Then TonyJordan ofthe men's team took a serious fall, suffering a hairline fracture and nerve damage to the right leg, as well as a concussion. 
That is not all. Notre Dame women's captain Kathy Skendzal, usually a reliable finisher in the top five, was dis­qualified in the giant slalom when, attempting to get out to a fast start, she left one of her skis at the starting gate. And, as if to emphasize the point, John Kruger did the exact same thing. 
But the ski team persevered, and the results were not as bad as they could have been. The men placed fourth, the St. Mary's women took fifth, and the Notre Dame women placed sixth. 
• 

Except for Jordan's spill, the men did rather well in the icy conditions on Saturday. Club President John O'Donovan finished fifth in the giant slalom and sixth in the 

Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 
slalom. jordan took 12th in the giant slalom, and John Kruger placed ninth in the slalom. Mike Murray was the third finisher for the Irish in both events, taking 20th in the giant slalom and 22nd in the slalom. 
"We raced real well Saturday," saidjordan. "But we sort offell apart Sunday." 
Because ofbad weather conditions, only the giant slalom was run Sunday. But the new snow came just in time to help the women's teams. 
Maureen Connoughton, who had placed ninth in the slalom, took sixth place for St. Mary's in the giant slalom. Solid skiing by her and Sheila Smiggen and lisa Hamann led the Belles to fifth place. 

The Notre Dame women were led by Skendzal, who placed third in the slalom and took first in the giant slalom. Laurie Shea kept up her consistant skiing by finishing I 7th in the slalom and 20th in bothgiant slalom races. Stephanie Eck finished 22nd in the giant slalom, and jane Heisel placed 43rd In the slalom . 
The men's "B" team was the other team which com­peted at Crystal Mountain. Strong finishers for the Irish in­cluded C.B. Thomas, jeffParker andjoe McBride. 
• 

The skier with perhaps the most talent on the team is Skendzal. She was an all-state performer in high school, and she qualified for the collegiate nationals her freshman year. 
"Getting there was my main goal," she said. "I just wanted to have fun while I was there." 
She did not win anything, though, as the differences bet· ween the Michigan "hills" and the Colorado mountains were too much. 
Last year as a sophomore, she spent the year in Algiers, France. She only skied a few times last year, so returning to the team she was a little nervous. 
She is also a little less consumed with skiing than she was as a freshman. As captain, she is more concerned with team goals. 
"As a team, to qualify for regionals is our goal," she said. "To qualify for nationals would be great, but the competi­tion is stronger, and it would really be tough, almost impos­sible." 
Considering that the team has only one senior, that is the best goal right now for Skendzal and the rest of the Notre Dame women. The team is strong right now, as shown by its vicrory in the Michigan Governor's Cup race, but should be even stronger next year. 
• 

Coming up this week, the Gymnastics Club opens its season at Miami (Ohio) Saturday, and the Ski team returns to both Caberfae and Crystal Mountain for a meet. The men's Volleyball Club plays tomorrow at Western Mic· higan, and then takes on the Wolverines ofMichigan at the ACCpit. 


