---~ 
----.........-..----------------.,-...., 
X-rated -page 3 


VOL. XXI NO. 6 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame sophomore told to pay $1500 
By MARK MELLETT addition to the fine, Fedder 
Staff Reporter 
said. 
McKeever signed a guilty 
A judge has awarded· plea in the out-of-court settle­$ I, 500 in an out-of-court ment and accepted a judge's settlement to a South Bend decision concerning the liquor store fined last spring amount of the damages, Fed­for serving an 18-year-old der said. Notre Dame student. The alleged use of a fake 
A circuit judge ordered identification card by sophomore Patrick McKeever was not discussed McKeever, of Alumni Hall, to in the settlement, Fedder pay the $1,500 in damages said. to Bullseye Discount Liquor, Fedder said that by submit­713 Lincoln Way West. ting the guilty plea, 
Earlier this year, Bullseye Mct<.eever, in effect, stated filed a suit against McKeever, Yes, I knew I was 18. Yes, I seeking $1,000 in compen-knew there was a liquor pur­satory damages and $2,500 chasing age requirement of in puriitive damages. 21. Yes, I will face the punish-
McKeever was ap-ment. '' prehended on Feb. 8 outside McKeever's attorney, Philip f3ullseye after he allegedly Faccenda, said he would not used a false identification comment on the case without card to buy alcoholic McKeever's consent. beverages, said the store's at-Fedder said the suit was torney Kenneth Fedder. not filed to make money for 
The state fined Bullseye ap-the store. Between the $3 proximately $500 for serving purchase of McKeever and McKeever, who was then 18. the $500 fine, Fedder said, 
Observer Phol<>l'llke May

Bullseye also was held re-there was a large loss on the sponsible for the cost of at-part of his client. Moreover, students, law students and sophomores. torney's fees and long dis--Tickets will be distributed to freshman to­tance telephone calls in see FINE, page 3 morrow. 
More than 400 people feared dead in sinking 
Associated Press a news conference that res­sons there may be some sur­their conditions. blow until the moment of the 
cue boats plucked 836 sur­vivors. But he said he believes He said the liner was sinking of the ship, it was not 
vivors from the Black Sea, that most of these pas­rammed amidship on its star­possible to launch into water 
MOSCOW A tourist-packed most of them clinging to rafts sengers are still aboard the board at I I: 15 p.m. Sunday any of the rescue boats, he Soviet cruise ship, rammed that floated free when the ship. Until the divers do their by the Soviet freighter Pyotr said. and torn open by a freighter, liner Admiral Nakhimov work it will be difficult to con­Vasyev. The collision oc·­Nedyak said it was too soon sank so fast that there was no plunged to the bottom at firm this supposition, Nedyak curred about nine miles from to assign blame. He said time to deploy lifeboats and about midnight Sunday. said. the port of Novorossiysk. there was no fog at the time 
more than 400 people are There were I, 234 people He said the vessel rests on Nedyak said officials believe of the collision. feared dead, a maritime offi­aboard, according to official the bottom at a depth of 155 the cruise ship sank within 15 He said about 50 vessels cial said yesterday. reports. feet. minutes. were continuing search and 
The same vessel, then un­Nedyak said 79 bodies were Nedyak said the informa­The blow came into the rescue operations, along with der a Red Cross flag, sank recovered and that 319 tion he had indicated no partition between the engine helicopters and other aircraft. during World War II after strik­people were still missing two bodies had been recovered room and the boiler room There were no casualties ing a mine. days after the collision. since late Monday. He said 29 and ripped the ship open, among the crew of the 
Deputy Merchant Marine Nedyak said he hopes that of the survivors were hospi­Nedyak said. freighter, which was laden Minister Leonid Nedyak told out of the 319 missing per-talized, but he did not give From the moment oC the with grain, Nedyak said. 
Asbestos insulation removed from student rooms 
By JIM REILLY commom rooms such as the the work environment every bestos insulation was broken one year because the cost is Copy Editor game room and TV lounge, two hours. and hanging loose. too high, according to Zerr. Gibbons said. Asbestos was The University monitored Results of an air sample He added that the mainte­
Asbestos pipe insulation not removed from the trunk the removal constantly, Zerr taken by Zerr in the Fisher nance department has been was completely removed this storage room, said Zerr, be­said. Dedrick said the con­basement last May showed able to patch and ~~pair the summer from all rooms used cause students rarely enter it. tractor was licensed by the that there were no excessive smaller problell' • ·eas, and by students in the basement The University hired a con­Environmental Protection levels of fibers in the air. has been able :J cover the of Fisher Hall, according to tractor to remove the as­Agency, and Zerr said the as­Though there was not an as­cost on those jobs. Robert Zerr, director of envi­bestos from the Fisher base­bestos was buried in a state­bestos hazard present, the Dedrick said his depart­ronmental health and safety ment and also some from monitored landfill south of University decided to remove ment is continuing its policy 
at Notre Dame. Howard HaiL according to South Bend. the asbestos in Fisher, Zerr of encapsulation or removal 
All the visible pipes that had Donald Dedrick, director of Last spring. a parent of a said. where appropriate. been insulated with asbestos the physical plant. student who lived in the Fis­Zerr said the asbestos was are now covered with a ma­Brother Edward Luther, rec­her basement found asbestos removed, rather than just en­He added that the University terial that appears to be fiber­tor of Fisher, described the in the room of his son during capsulated as is frequently will be removing asbestos glass or black rubber, accor­removal as very profes­a campus visit. done, because the University from those dorms involved in ding to Greg Gibbons, a sionally done. Luther said the During spring break, the as­policy is to remove asbestos its continuing dormitory resident of the Fisher base­contractor covered every­bestos was removed from when possible. He added that renovation program. ment. thing and wet down the as­that room but was left in the this is the policy of most uni­Zerr said students may con­
In Fisher, asbestos was bestos before removing it. other rooms ofthe basement versities. tact the University if they think removed from all student Workers, wearing protective Gibbons said. He also said at All the asbestos in all the there is an asbestos problem dorm rooms and from all suits, were required to leave the time that much of the as-dorms cannot be removed in in a particular room. 


---~----~-~ ----~~-~~~-­
The Observer Wednesday, September 3, 1986 -page 2 

In Brief 
Meeting last night for the first time this year, the Hall Presidents' Council discussed creating a service to take students home from bars and parties on the weekends, said HPC Co-Chairperson Joanie Cahill. The service, which is still tentative, could begin in a couple of weeks if a company is found to run it, Cahill said. Plans call for the bus to begin at midnight and stop at Senior Bar, the Five Points area, Saint Louis St., Notre Dame Apartments, the Main Circle, Saint Mary's, the Memorial Library, Campus View Apartments and Turtle Creek Apartments, she said. Because of liability problems, the bus would not take students to bars, only back to their homes, she said. In other business, the HPC dis­cussed how it would spend the $29,000 it was allocated in this year's budget, Cahill said. Members decided that halls must submit a budget specifying how funds will be spent before money is granted to them, she said. The HPC also decided to subsidize the Keenan Revue this year, she added. -The Observer 
Islamic Jihad claimed yesterday in Beirut that the Reagan administration blocked an agreement with France that could have freed the French hostages in Lebanon. The statement said the election of the gov­ernment of French Premier Jacques Chirac brought signs of a solution for the hostages question. The state­ment claimed France had been instructed by the United States not to respond to Islamic Jihad's overtures and consequently the door was slammed shut for any so­lution to this issue. There was no response to the state­ment from the French government, which does not comment on the French hostages as a matter of policy. 
-Associated Press 

Of Interest 
The Security Department at Notre Dame will hold a 
public auction tomorrow at Gate I I of the Football 
Stadium. The items to be auctioned can be inspected 

Interested? Call Lieutenant Flanagan or Lieutenant McKnight 239-6264 
at 6:30p.m. with the auction starting at 7. A variety of items will be auctioned off, including bicycles, watches, calculators, and other miscellaneous items which have been abandoned on the campus. -The Observer 

Saint Mary's student government will hold Activities Night at Angela Athletic Facility from 8 to I 0 tonight. Over 50 clubs on and off campus will be represented. The Observer 
The Saint Mary'S/Notre Dame Collegiate Choir needs male voices. Tenors and basses are especially needed to fill several openings. The Choir meets Mondays, Tuesdays, and Thursdays from 6 to 7 p.m. in Room I 14 of Saint Mary's Moreau Hall. Interested students may call Dr. Nancy Menk, director, at 284-4634, or come to one of the rehearsal dates. -The Observer 
The Knights and Ladies of Columbus are having an Open House tonight from 7:30 to I 0 in the Knights of Columbus Hall, located by the Hammes Bookstore. All are welcome to the meeting, which will be followed by refreshments. -The Observer 
Orserver Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted at The Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center until I p.m. prior to the date of publica­tion. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
It might rain, but then it might not. There is a 40 percent chance of thundershowers today with highs in the upper 70s to low 80s. The chance of showers increases to 60 percent tonight, when the lows will be in the mid 60s. There is a 30 percent chance of rain tomorrow, with highs near 80. -The Observer 

The_ Observer 

The Observer 1 I '~ ~'1'1 !-H"KII "puhl,.hell .\lunda~ thruu~ I· rolla• t'x<t·pt dunn!( t'X.&m and \;U:<ltum rw:rtut.h TheObsrrver t~ puhl-'ht·d h~ the ~tut.knh,,l tht·l 111\t'r'll' of Sotr~ l>ame o&nd ~amt \brf' <.olleKt." !'.uh~riptmn~ rna~· be pun:hill~t..l tnr S<\0 p;r 
•·nr I JlO pt'r 'ot'ntt'"t'r 1 h\ ,.TIItnf( The Observer. I' 0 llnx <}. :>;t>trt' llamt·. lndoana th'l'lh 
The Observer " • ntt'ntht'r ul The As.'K>Ciated Pte!l.~. All rt'prolltll"tiun rof(ht' Jrt' rev'"\·~d 


Advantages 
• THE NEWSLETIER FOR CAREER -MINDED STUDENTS • 
• MONEY 

• RECOGNITION 
• SELF-ESTEEM 
ARE YOU BEGINNING TO THINK ABOUT YOUR FUTURE? ADVANTAGES is a newsletter expressly for students who want to succeed in the job market. ADVANTAGES gives you the benefit of quality career skill advice from people who are already successful in their fields. Practical, hard­hitting advice that comes from experience on topics like Job Hunting, Networking, Resumes, Interviewing, Reputation, and many more. ADVANTAGES covers 2 subjects every 3 weeks from October through May for a total of 20 of the most important topics you need for your future success. With each one you gain a clear understanding of another career skill, you get examples of how to do it right, what to watch out for, and an action checklist to get you started. If you want to succeed, start by taking advantage now of the advice of men and women who have already done it. Of all the learning you do this year, this might benefit your future the most. · · • · · · · · · · · ••..........................•..•(Detach Coupon) .................•........................ 
Get 40% savings with this special risk-free Back to School offer! While the normal subscription price for ADVANTAGES is $49.95, send in your check or money order payable to ADV ANT AGES postmarked no later than Sept. 13, 1986 and pay only $29.95 for all 20 topics. Not only a small investment in your future, but a risk-free one: if you ever wish to cancel your subscription, just let us know and we'll promptly refund your money on all unmailed issues. 
D YES! I want to start using ADVANTAGES. Enclosed is my payment for I I $29.95 I I $49.95 
(Please Print Clearly) 
Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip 

Class (Check One): 0 Fresh 0 Soph 0 Jr. 0 Sr. 0 Grad. Mail to: ADVANTAGES I P.O.BOX 17076 I HAUPPAUGE, NY 11788 
(Please allow 4·6 weeks for delivery of your first issue). 
64508 

The Observer W~dnesday, September .3, 1986 -page 3 
Pilot heart attack may be crash cause 
Associated Press  crew members aboard the jet  
and the three people in the  
small plane.  Numbers  from  
CERRITOS, Calif- Up to 24 various  sources  indicated  

people on the ground may have been killed when a jet­liner crashed into a residen­tial neighborhood after collid­ing with a small plane whose pilot had just had a heart at­tack, sources said yesterday. 
A top federal investigator said it was unlikely the heart attack led to the collision that killed the 67 people aboard the planes. 
John Lauber, the National Transportation Safety Board member in charge of the in­vestigation of Sunday's crash said he was skeptical the heart attack was a factor. 
NTSB spokesman Ira Fur­man said key remaining questions include why the single-engine Piper was in restricted airspace used by planes approaching and leaving Los Angeles Interna­tional Airport and why it was not seen by the crew of the Aeromexico DC-9 or the air traffic controller at the air­port. 
The confirmed dead in­cluded 58 passengers and six 
that up to 24 others on the 
ground also died, which 
could bring the total death 
toll to 91. 
Garry Oversby, of the Los Angeles County Fire Depart­ment, said a man and two of his teen-age children died in one house, while 15 par­tygoers died in another house. One woman was believed killed in her home, her son said Monday. 
Five other people, believed to be residents or visitors to another house, also were killed, the Orange County Register said yesterday, citing unidentified county officials. 
Coroner's spokesman Bill Gold refused yesterday to es­timate the number of fatalities among people on the ground. 
Although coroner's officials have finished removing all the remains, Gold said it woud be a week or more before they would be able to determine the number of dead. 

WEL<=<)ME BACK 

LUMBER l.tOh S.1u1h l"r.tnl.hn .11 Br,l,tdll;t\ S.1u1h lknd.lndt;lll;t .thhl \ 
Free Delivery to Campus and surrounding 
areas 
2H9-247H 


Down for the count  Observer Pholo1'11ke May  
A member of the Notre Dame Kung-fu Club demonstrates moves at Student Activities Night. The event was held last night, giving  students the chantions.  ce to sign up for organiza- 



Trial set for x-rated film show 
Associated Press House, a housing unit in 
Wright Quad. 

Henderson and the Indiana 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. ~ A Civil Liberties Union contend former Indiana University stu­that he was selectively dent is scheduled to go on prosecuted and his First trial in November for showing Amendment rights to free an X-rated film in a campus speech and expression have cafeteria last fall. been violated. 
David Henderson, 22, of Monroe County Prosecutor Coral Gables, Fla., is charged Ron Waicukauski, however, with obscene performance, a contends that the university misdemeanor with a maxi­became a subsidized forum mum penalty of one year in for pornography when the jail and a $5,000 fine. film was shown on campus. 
Henderson was charged in He said a state-supported in­January, a month after he stitution should not be al­graduated with a degree in lowed to show X-rated films. economics and two months City police confiscated the after he sponsored the film after the prosecutor's of­showing of the film Insatiable fice received complaints and to raise money for Dodds Monroe Circuit Judge James 

Smith sentenced in 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Cathy Evelyn Smith, a former rock backup singer who injected 
comic  John  Belushi  with  
drugs  before  he  died,  was  
sentenced  to  three years in  

prison yesterday by a judge who called her the source of the poison. 
Smith had pleaded no con­test to a charge of involuntary manslaughter and three counts of furnishing and ad­ministering dangerous drugs in Belushi's heroin and cocaine overdose death on March 5, 1982 . 

Judge David Horowitz rejected an impassioned plea from Smith's attorney, Howard Weitzman, who urged that she be placed on probation and be allowed to enter a drug rehabilitation program. 
The true responsibility for the death of Belushi must be attributed to the comedian himself, Horowitz said, be­cause his decision to live a drug-infested life led to his death. 
He told Smith this did not absolve her and, declaring her the source of the poison, said that only prison time 
! 
: Concession Stand 
: Meet1•ng
• • • 
• WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3 
: • 6 30 
• : p.m. : UTILE THEATRE· LAFORTUNE 
• 
• • • • • • : Dixon issued a search warrant after viewing the film and de­termining there was probable cause to deem the movie obscene. 
Henderson's trial was originally scheduled in May, but Monroe Superior Judge Douglas Bridges ruled that the trial would be postponed until students returned to town in the fall and could be included on the jury. 
The chances for a fair trial without any student cross section on the jury would be limited, Bridges said. 
Jurors will be required to view a videocassette of Insati­able, which can be rented at some area video rental stores. 




death 
could teach her a lesson. 
Smith had faced a maxi­mum possible sentence of eight years and eight months in prison. 
Belushi's widow, a younger 
brother and his sister-in-law 
sat in the front row of the 
courtroom as the sentence 
was pronounced. They had 
appealed to the judge to put 
Smith behind bars as a lesson 
to youngsters who might be 
tempted to try drugs. 
Weitzman repeatedly sum­
moned the ghost of Belushi, 
saying the comic surely 
would speak in favor of 
Smith's probation if he was 
present. 

: Fine 
: continued rrom page
•
. the violation was not only em­
• 
barrassing but also left a 

• 
blemish on Bullseye's record 

• 
forever, Fedder said. 


: The court actions simply
• 
state that if Bullseye is

• 
caught, it's going to come


• 
back to the customer to pay, 

: Fedp~~it~~!d. damages were 
• 
sought for reasons of deter­

• 
renee, Fedder said. He added


•
• 
that people should realize 

• 
that there are consequences 

• 
for violating liquor laws. 

• 
Fedder said he knew of no • other incidents in which a liq­: uor store filed suit against a 

• 
minor. He added, however, 


• Clubs awarded stands must aHend! • that there are close to 2o such 
• cases being prepared in the 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • South Bend area . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . ' ....... . 
The Observer Wednesday, September 3, 1986 -page 4 

Want to tell your buddy in Boise about the big ballgame? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 

Want to tell your sister in Scarsdale about studying Spencer? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Want to tell your girl in Galveston about going goofy without her? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Any time you pick up the phone and dial up Clark long distance, you'll dial up savings. Because Clark quality long distance costs less ... 5°/o less than AT&T for comparable calls. 
So make your first call a call to Clark's on-campus representative at 283-4150. Or visit our office in Room G89, Memoriat Library. And phone home...for less. 




CLqRKTELECOMMUNICATIOf\JS, INC. 

The Observer 
Wednesday, September 3, 1986 -page 5 

Melges seeks to upset Aussies 
Open 
continued from page 8 
the Swede's service in the eighth game to break him at 30. 
• He makes you feel you're playing bad, but he's just playing too good," Wilander said of Mecir. It feels like when you're playing him 
1 theres nothingyou can do. He controls your game." Mecir did just that in the third set breaking Wilander's service in the first and ninth games. Then came the vital fourth set the one that turned out to be the last of the match. Mecir was up a service break and was serving forth~ match in the ninth game. But Wilander, rising to the occa­sion, slammed a backhand passing shot down the line. Then, after Mecir's backhand volley made it 15-15, Wilander captured the next three points to break serve. "I knew I still had 5-4,"Mecir said." I had to concentrate on the next game to win it.'' And that he did. 
The two battled to. 30-30 before Wilander took a 40-30 lead on a controversial point. Mecir wound up netting a 
..\1' ) 

Pam Shriver, shown serving in an earlier-round match, was eliminated from the U.S. Open yesterday in straight sets by Martina Navratilova. Details of this and other matches appear at right. 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE As he prepares to meet the in­
famous Freemantle Doctor off Australia's West Coast, 
Notre DaDie Avenue 
ApartDients 
Harry Buddy Melges says the odds are improving for his
NOW R£NTINGFORFAIL 
upstart campaign to bring the America's Cup to the Midwest. 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry. 
Melges, an Olympic medal­
and off-street parking. 
winning sailor and skipper of 
the Heart of America chal­
On site management & maintenence, 
lenge, acknowledged that the 
winds off Freemantle would 
all deluxe features 
Mm l' in lwforl' <) I '1 Wl and gL"t 
pose a special threat in the 
<Jill' motHh frl'l' rl'nt 
12-meter yacht races that 
start next month.
Office at 110 ND Ave 
The Doctor is a wind of
2.34-6647 

about 17 to 25 knots that
Call Anytime 
commonly blows at 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


The Student Activities Board 
presentS a Thanksgiving Vacation Package to e::'1'-~i!::::::..~ 
__, 
...olll!llliro!!l!lill~~~ 



N.D. vs. U.S.C. Football Game 
Thursday, Nov. 27 -Sunday, Nov.30 
$37<Yperson quad occupancy at the Hyatt incl. airfare, hotel, all transfers, game ticket $26&person --airfare, game ticket 
$50 deposit due Fri., Sep. 5 
backhand in a rally that SaW 
the Swede hit a ball that ap­peared to be long. 
After the point Mecir quickly turned and stared at the baseline judge.· The call stood, but Mecir had the per­fect answer. 
He pulled to deuce wilh a smash, moved to advantage with a backhand passing shot. And when he rifled a backhand service return cross court a shot that Wilander never had a chance at Mecir was in the quarter­finals. 
Navratilova said her victory over Shriver was bittersweet. 
"l seem to feel the strain more against her because were such good friends," the world's top-ranked women's player said. •Its not a pleasurable victory. • 
Although Navratilova holds a 26-3 career edge over Shriver, two of Shriver's vic­tories have come on the hard courts in the U.S. Open -the last time in the quarterfinals in 1982. 
lve lost to her a few times, and that gets me up more than for an opponent lve never lost to," Navratilova said. 
Shriver was impressed with 
Freemantle, resulting in high seas like those that plagued the world championships for 12-meter yachts earlier this 
year,  sweeping  crewmen  
overboard  and  smashing  
equipment.  

·There are going to be very large seas: Melges said in a tel~phone interview Tuesday from his office in Zenda, Wis. Its going to be a chore to keep crewmen on board. But weve sailed an awful lot in 25 to 30 knots winds at Santa Cruz, Calif., and we handled it well." 
Melges, 56, who operates a boat works at Zenda near Lake Geneva, said the boat specially built for the compe­titian was being shipped to Perth and he would travel to Australia Sept. 9 to prepare for the start of competition Oct. 5. 
·The new boat is two days out of Perth:· he said.~Our first entourage is already in Perth." 
The schedule calls for com­petition among the dozen . challengers in October, No­
Navratilova. 
Shriver described the match perfectly as Nav­ratilova dominated, whether ripping a cross-court passing shot or deftly dropping a touch volley. For most of the match, Navratilova held her 
serve  easily  while  Shriver  
struggled  to  deuce  almost  
every time.  

Becker, the 18-year-old who is ranked third in the world, already has two Wimbledon titles. Now, he wants to prove his powerful, diving style is as effective here as it is on Wimbledon's grass courts. 
Against Donnelly, better known for his doubles play, Becker said his game was at­most perfect. 
''The match was almost over at two sets to love and 3-0, and I felt really comfortable out there. But then I had 40­
15 at 3-I and then suddenly I served two double-faults," Becker said. 
Donnelly, ranked 2 I I th in the world, broke Becker's ser­vice in the fifth game, then won the tiebreaker 7-4. 
But Becker broke Donnelly in the opening game of the fourth set at 30, then served out the rest of the match. 
vember and December. Four qualifying boats then com­pete to advance to the final two-boat series for the cup it­self. starting Jan. 31. 
In 1983, the Australian vic­tory off Newport R.I., broke sports' longest winning streak, covering 24 chal­lenges over 132 years. Now the Royal Perth Yacht Club is 
hosting the 1987 competi­
tion, including challengers from the United States, Canada, Great Britain, France, Italy and New Zealand. 
The Heart of America cam­

paign, sponsored by the Chicago Yacht Club, has a smaller budget than those of some other U.S. challengers, but Melges said the months of practice have convinced him his crew will be compet­itive. 
"We feel very good about the performance of the crew, the rig, the boat itself: he said. 
"As for the higher-priced 

U.S. challengers, they can only use one boat at a time and one suit of sails; he said. 
Melges commented after a weekend send-off from Mil­sailing en­
FREE!-----t 
REGUlAR RAXe 

WITH PURCHASE OF 
Balance due Sep. 30th refundable up to Oct. 28th REGUlAR FRIES AND 
MEDIUM DRINK 

Our iaiiiOuS Rax roast beef.SUced Sign up Mon., Sep. I -Fri., Sep. 5 ~. piled hiilh. and ~erved on a 
selilllle-eeed roll. 
lower level Lafortune 2:30 p.m. -4:30 p.m. ......_c_......_......_.Qw
c-prr -por -·Hot wid in cambinolion
.ott. in!!-Rax ...... Offer SPDd 01 .-ticipoq
ONLY 125 PLACES ... Rax Rnlaunnta. 1120 coni caoh Ndemption .... 
Sign-ups end Friday Sept. 5th 





·-:=IE:_. 

The Observer Wednesday, September 3, 1986 -page 6 

Redskins undergo changes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It wasn't 
long ago that the Washington 
Redskins were known as The 
Over the Hill Gang. Even last 
year, the team had an aged 
flavor, with veterans Joe 
Theismann and John Riggins 
leading the offense. 
As Washington prepares 
for its 50th season in the NFL, 
Theismann, the 36 year-old 
quarterback. and Riggins, a 
37-year-old running back, are 
gone and Coach Joe Gibbs 
has a team that has been 
remodeled by a dramatic 
youth movement. 
Thirteen players on the 45­
man roster have never played 
a down in the NFL. Fourteen 
were not on the roster at the 
end of last season, and only 
a handful of veterans remain 
from the squad that played in 
successive Super Bowls in 
1982 and 1983. 
• We just wound up with some new faces, a lot of new faces," said Gibbs, whose team missed the playoffs last year for the first time since 1981 ...TI)eyi-e the guys we felt won the spots, a lot of dark horses who nobody gave much of a chance. 
n 
Nine rookies are on the 
1986 roster, including top 
draft choice Markus Koch, 
whose play during the 
preseason helped make 
eight-year veteran defensive 
end Tom Beasley expen­
dable. And strong preseason 
performances by rookie de­
fensive backs Todd Bowles 
and Alvin Walton ended the 
brief career of safety Raphe! 
Cherry. 
The surprising develop­
ment of rookie quarterback 
Mark Rypien led to the release 
last week of four-year veteran 
Babe Laufenberg, and Gibbs 
decided to keep first-year 
guard Ron Tilton instead of 
I 1-year veteran Ken Huff, 
who spent the last three years 
as a Redskin. 

• 
It was pretty much a transi­tion year,'" said Huff after learning of his release. 


•Theyre 
not dragging it out over a couple of years, they're doing it in one year. It might work, it might not." 


Quarterback Doug Wil­liams and running back Kel­vin Bryant imports from the USFL, are two newcomers who bring experience with them. Williams, who played five seasons with Tampa Bay of the NFL before jumping to the USFL, and Bryant the USFL's second-leading all­time rusher, should make the absence of Theismann and Riggins tolerable for Gibbs. 
At the outset of training camp, the coach said it would be important to firtd people to instill the emotion that Theismann and Riggins did as team leaders. Gibbs' swing to youth may have taken care of that concern. 
• I think this gives us some­thing weve been lacking: youthful enthusiasm,~ said linebacker Rich Milot one vet­eran who held off a challenge from a newcomer. 


Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's women's golf team placed third in a field of nine teams in its fourth annual Labor Day Tournament this past weekend. The team was led by freshman Amy Junius who fired two rounds of 80 for a two-day total of 160. The Wolverines of the University of Michigan won the tournament while Purdue copped second place. -The Observer 
Men's lnterhall Football rosters must be submitted today with an accompanying fee of $40. Uniforms and equipment will be issued only after the rosters are in. Proof of insurance must also be provided. Further in­formation may be obtained by contacting the NVA office at 239-51 00. -The Observer 
Women's lnterhall Football rosters must be submit­ted to the NVA office today with the $35 entry fee. Team members must reside in the same hall and an insurance and consent form is required. Contact NVA for more information. -The Observer 
The NOOMC Sailing Club has slated its first meeting for all members and prospective members tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. -The Observer 
The Off-Campus football team will practice today at 
4:30 p.m. on Green Field. This is the last day to sinn up for the team. -The Observer 
The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Senior Staff Reporter 
Copy Editor Day Editor Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
Those interested may come up to the Observer's offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or call Mark Pankowski, Tripp Baltz or Margie Kersten at 239-5303. 
Wed. -­LEARN YOUR ABC's stet Light cks rona Thurs. -­Michelob Michelob Light 90¢ Pick up or sign up for club memberships at the club. Rentals --contact Linda Ward 277-6524  

The Notre Dame Women's Soccer Club has started weekday practices behind Stepan Center. Practice begins at 4:30 p.m. Tuesday and 4 p.m. Wednesday. Anyone interested may attend and further information may be obtained by contacting Kate Titterton at 283­2904. -The Observer 
Intramural aerobics at Angela Athletic Facility begin this week. Classes are scheduled for Monday and Wed­nesday from 10-1 I p.m., Tuesday and Thursday at 4-5 
p.m. and 5-6 p.m. and Friday from 5-6 p.m. Cost is five dollars for the semester. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in teaching aerobics for the intra­mural program at Angela Athletic Facility should attend a meeting today at 5:30p.m. in the Angela lounge or contact Mary Jo Lambert at 284-5508. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Windsurfing Club will be giving free windsurfing lessons today at 3:30 p.m. on the beach of St. Joe's Lake. Further information may be obtained by contacting Carter Thomas at 283-1605. -The Ob­server 
The Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club has slated its first meeting and free lesson for tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the ACC's fencing gym. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in playing off-campus soccer is asked to call Tom at 272-2596. There will be practice tomorrow at 5:30 on Stepan Field. -The Observer 
ARTISTS! 
Get the exposure you need NOWI The Observer Graphic Arts Department Is looking for talented, enthusiastic people to flll positions as: 
Cartoonists, editorial Illustrators Cartoonists, series/humor Advertisement artists 
Graphic artists 
Pick-up an application this week and return It with example of your work. 
Deadline: Friday, Sept. 5 
21 1 E. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7806 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance fl·oor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00 -12:00 

-------------------------'------'-'--------.............................__......_'--___________. 
~4C:t~C3L~__________________________________________w_e_d-ne_s_da-y,_s_e_pt-em_b_e_r_3._1_98_6_-_p_ag•e-7 
Bloom County 


CLASSOF'87 

SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGNUPS 
Tues. Sept. 2 ·Thurs. Sept. 4 4:45.6:45 Dining Halls 

Attention Campus Bands and D.J.'s WE WANT TO KNOW THAT YOU EXIST 
Register with the SAB Musical Entertainment Commission (lower level Lafortune) to be put on a list of available artists 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

\ 
Never put your lip on a glacier. 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Extraordinary: 
abbr. 5 Resorts 9 Branches 
13 Give a -(aid) 15 Car grease 
for short 16 Earl of Avon 17 Proclamation 18 She: Fr. 19 Pull along 20 Fish 22 Holiday 23 Metropolis 24 Adversary 26 Man 0' War 
nickname 30 Brainstorm 31 Together 
musically 32 Pitcher 35 Band 39 Contributes 
helpfully 41 Parseghian 42 Jostle 43 Dayan of lsr. 
All Rights Reserved 




44 Path 46 Exude 47 Ger. river 6 Fleshy 49 Scrape off 7 Fit 51 Oberon of 8 Become 
movies enraged 53 Gr. mountain 9 Of a commu­55 Ananias for nity chest 
one 10 Relevant 56 Censors 11 Full of 62 Precedes substance 
toxin or 12 "Bus Stop" 
trust playwright 63 Copycat 14 Eng. money 64 Recipient 21 Girl Friday 65 Control 25 Loch­66 Lug 26 Ointment 67 Fiend 27 Thought: 68 Hong-comb. form 69 Sum, -, fui 28 Artillery 70 Legal wrong 29 Misleading 
clue 

DOWN 30 Abadan's land 1 Innuendo 33 Whip mark 2 Short dog 34-of Good 
for short Feeling 3 Mild oath 36 ltalia's city 4 Oath 37 Keen 5 Slumbered 38 A Rose 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 
TuG 'IfE E D 'Ip A L L 

B E R T A G R E E lA L I A A L A E G R A N D S T A N D REMED'i~~-AERI ES -0 P E N~faj T 0­
U S H E R S 0 N E SIE R E 

MAP LIAi~rG E L 
TIO.EARRING.NAT ED NIA PII T LATEST S E E P S ~~. S 0 R E' S
-p
A R A C A P R A­
A D H E R E •,11,1~~ N T E D 
GRIN-STONE AIRY
H A R D E A T E R D0 I N 
A G E S T R E S S 0 N C E 
9/3/86 
40 Deal in 54 Binge 
45 Unaffectedness 55 Escapade 
48 Chide 57 Grandiose 
50 Music groups poetry 
51 Actor Sal 58 Layer 
52 Dine at home 59 Division word 
53 "Golden Boy" 60 Limerick name playwright 61 Transmitted 


""'""----~ -~~----~-------· 
-----~ 


Cornerback Marv Spence (25) and safety has forced a small reorganization of the de­Steve Lawrence (23) pursue a ballcarrier in fensive secondary. Marty Strasen previews a game last year. A knee injury to Lawrence the Irish defensive backs at right. 


Irish strengthen secondary as fall practice winds down 
ball skills and I think weve got hak appears to be the No.3
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports t:ditor some good toughness corner, while freshman Pat theyre all strong points. I Terrell has also been impres­Last season, the Notre think we're progressing right sive in practices. Dame defensive backfield on schedule." "The secondary is going to was more often a victim than The only unscheduled be important to the success a culprit. turns of events thus far have of this football tearn" said And while the secondary been all-America honorable­Head Coach Lou Holtz. "Troy that steps onto the field in mention Lawrence's bad knee Wilson has had a great fall less than two weeks against and a minor hamstring injury and Marv Spence has been a Michigan will be virtually the to sophomore strong safety pleasant surprise. same defensive unit which George Streeter. "Mike Haywood is our top saw opponents pick up over 
free safety and Brandy Wells 350 yards of offense a game has been doing a fine job at last season, the most in over strong safety. We've had to 25 years, 1986 is shaping up have some revisions because somewhat differently. A new of Lawrence's injury and I system and a head coach con­can't possibly forsee when cerned about developing a he'll be back healthy." pass rush should take some Meanwhile, Haywood is lv> of the burden off the coming comfortable at free shoulders of the defensive safety, and sees the entire backs. secondary shaping up for the ··You carit give us all the season. blame just like you cant give "I enjoy it because I've got us all the praise," said senior a lot more room to roam," veteran Mike Haywood, who said Haywood, who made 48 started at cornerback last tackles last season and
Mike Haywood 
year but has been moved to boasts I 7 previous career 
free safety because of Steve Streeter has been sidelined starting assignments. "I miss 
Lawrence's bad knee, which in fall practices as a precau­the man-to-man coverage on 
was reinjured in the spring. tionary measure, and junior the corner but I can't com­··The secondary can only be as Brandy Wells, who had been plain where I am. 
good as the pass rush, and battling with Streeter at "We have a lot of experi­
people who dont know foot­strong safety, has locked up ence and a lot of depth and 
ball dont realize that." the No. I spot. Former tail­we're starting to come to­
In the 1986 football cam­back Corny Southall, a soph­gether as a unit. We're more 
paign, however, a veteran omore, has been moved to aggressive than last year and 
secondary corps will be one the strong position, and has we're playing tighter on our 
of the keys if the defensive been progressing well accor­coverage. That's going to put 
problems of I 985 are going dinq to Forbes. the pressure on opposing 
to be turned around. Lawrence's inability to start quarterbacks and receivers." 
Strong safety Pat Ballage is prompted the move of "We're trying to make the 
the only starter from last Haywood to the free safety secondary the strongest part 
season's team lost to gradua­postilion, where he currently of the defense," Forbes said. 
tion, and ~t least two return­stands as the first-team "But that's what all the other 
ing starters will line up starter. Behind Haywood ~re defensive coaches are sayin9. 
beyond the line ofscrimmage Lawrence and senior James as well. That's our philoso· 
against the Wolverines on Bobb, who should see plenty phy. Ifeveryone can play their 
opening day. of playing time. best the entire defense 
·· Our whole focus is to be as Senior Troy Wilson, a I985 benefits. 
strong as we possibly can be,'' starter who led all defensive "'It's notjust one unit that's 
said Irish secondary coach backs in playing time and going to make our defense 
Terry Forbes."We want to con­racked up 57 tackles, starts and our entire team strong. 
trol what we are capable of at one cornerback slot, while It's the team. It's Notre Dame. 
controlling and make the nec­veteran classmate Marv The key is our football squad 
essary adjustments in a given Spence (41 tackles) gets the and everyone on our football 
situation to be successful. nod at the other corner. squad. We'll be ready for Mic­
•We have good speed, good Former walk-on Chris Kvoc-higan." 
Wednesday, September 3, 1986 -page 8 


Mecir beats Wilander in U.S. Open upset 
Associated Press though unspectacular play. 
The bearded 22-year-old 

NEW YORK -Czechos­from Prievidza also found the lovakia's Miloslav Mecir upset angles on his cross-court second-seeded Mats Wilander passing shots and strong vol­of Sweden 6-7, 6-3, 6-3, 6-4 leys. yesterday to advance in~ the For Wilander, it was yet an­quarterfinals of the U.S. bpen other disappointing appear­Tennis Championships. ance in America's premier 
Mecir will face another tennis event. The Swede has Swede, seventh-seeded won four Grand Slam titles -Joakim Nystrom, who earlier two on clay at the French yesterday defeated Matt Open and two on grass at the Anger 7-6, 6-2, 6-2 on the Australian Open. hard courts of the National But he has always come up Tennis Center. short in the Open. Last year, 
Wimbledon champion he lost to John McEnroe in Boris Becker of West Ger­the semifinals after leading 2­many, the No. 3 seed, also 1 in sets. moved into the quarterfinals, •Normally I hit from the ousting qualifier Gary Don­baseline. But early I didn't feel nelly 6-4, 6-3, 6-7. 6-4. very confident from the 
Becker's quarterfinal op­baseline, so I had to go to the ponent was decided last night net Mecir, seeded 16th,
N 

when Todd Witsken played said. Czechoslovakia's Milan Srej­It was the fiftl1 time ber. Wilander and Mecir have 
Two-time women's cham­faced each other, and the pion Martina Navratilova third time Mecir has won. moved another step closer to Although he dropped the her fourth straight trip to the first-set tiebreaker 7-3, Mecir singles final by dcfeatiug her gave notice to Wilandcr of doubles partner, Pam what to expect wl1en he broke Shriver, 6-2, 6-4. the Swede's service in the 
Navratilova, the women's very first game. Wilandcr No. I seed, will face the win­broke right back and t11e two ner of last night's quarterfinal traded service breaks again in pairing between third-seeded the fourth and fifth games. Steffi Graf of West Germany Mecir also gained the first and No. 8 Bonnie Gadusek. service break in the second 
Mecir, the leader of Czec­set to take a 2-0 lead. Tile hoslovakia's Davis Cup team two went back on serve when now that Ivan Lendl. the top Wilander broke Mecir's ser­seed here, no longer plays for vice in the fifth game. but his native country, was again Mecir prevailed, sol\in~J steadier t11an Wilander. who is known for his steady see OPEN, page 5 
Football Ticket Distribution 


Notre Dame student season ticket sales continue today, as sophomores, law students and graduate students pick up their tickets this afternoon. 
Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their appJica,­
tion, remittance and I.D. card to Gate 10 of the ACC Oil tncnra,_ 
specified for your class. Tickets will not be distributed at Gate 3 as 
was originally printed on student applications. 
A limit of four applications may be presented together per student, 
provided that the individual presenting the applications .has aD 
four J.D. cards. Married students wishing to purchase a ticket for 
their spouse must show proOf of marriage. The ticket for the 
spouse will be the same price as a regular student ticket. 
The schedule for ticket distribution is as folfows: 


Soph.!Grad'Law Today 
Freshmen Thursday, Sept. 4 






