JPW photos -page 6 


VOL XX, NO. 98 
Reagan plan requests reduction of missiles 
WASHINGTON -In a formal reply to Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's arms control proposal, President Reagan has drafted a sweeping plan urging elimination of medium range missiles In Europe as a first step, a LJ.S. official says. 
The official, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, said Reagan's proposal was contained in a letter signed over the weekend that would be mailed 10 Gorbachev at the beginning of the week. A presiden· tial statement to the nation also is planned, he said. 
White House spokesman Ben Jar­rett confirmed Saturday that the White House was circulating Reagan's plan to ll.S. allies, key Congress members, and the ll.S. arms negotiating team in Geneva. He declined to say when the letter would be sent to Gorbachev or dis­~:.·uss Its contents. 
Reagan's proposal to eliminate medium range missiles "holds out the hope of earliest progress," the other official told the Associated Press. 
The official said Rl·agan also proposed that the more than 100 mobile SS-20 missiles the Soviets haw deployed in their Asian tl·r­rilories he reduced to very low num­hl·rs. These missiles are targeted on China and Japan and were not in­cluded in the disarmament proposal Gorbachev made Jan. 1t;_ 
The United States has deployed 2:~6 Pershing II and cruise missiles in West Ciermany, Britain and Italy, all aimed at Soviet territory. Even­tual installation of t;72 missiles is planned. The Soviets. meanwhile, have about 300 SS-20s targeted at Western Europe. 



Marcos denies claims that rebellious troops forced him into exile 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -President Ferdinand Marcos appeared on na­tional television today in a live broadcast, and said claims by rebels that he was preparing to leave the country were an effort to frighten the people. 
Radio Veritas, the Roman Catholic church station that has been a staunch critic of Marcos, had said he was leaving the country. 
Marcos appeared with his wife, Imelda, and some ofhis children and· grandchildren around him. 
"Don't believe any of these stories," said Marcos, calling the reports "propaganda lies they are peddling through the air waves." 
"They (the reports) are com­pletely without basis. hey are in­tended to frighten our people," Marcos said, directing his men to "use all necessary force" to defend their installations. 
He directed soldiers to use small arms to defend themselves but said big weapons like tanks and armored personnel carriers should not be employed "as yet." 
"I appeal to civilians to get out of the line of fire," Marcos said. 
Several local and foreign reporters were in the hall with Marcos, and the president said this would prove the broadcast was not taped in advance 
As Marcos spoke, thousand ofstu­dents chanted the name of opposi­tion leader Corazon Aquino outside his heavily guarded palace. 
Radio Veritas had broadcast state­ments by the two rebel military offi­cials, former Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile and Lt. Gen. Fidel Ramos, the former deputy armed forces chief, who said "tyranny" had been defeated. 
The Radio Veritas announcer then said Marcos was leaving the country. Sources at the presidential palace told reporters that Marcos wa.'l res­ting. 
In a battle of broadcasts, the government television replied: "the government remains in full control ofthe situation." 
Announcer Thelma Dumpit said on the government's Channel 4 that her report came from Information Minister Gregorio Cendana, who did not appear. 
An Associated Press correspon­dent said some soldiers at the presidential palace were wearing white armbands, but they refused to talk with journalists. Rebels have said soldiers wishing to surrender or join the revolt should wear white bands. 
Drivers of vehicles passing the palace honked horns and crowds gathered around the barricades. 
An official at the ll.S. embassy said, "I don't have any confirmation that he (Marcos) has left." He added that es are "more fluid this morning than they were yesterday." The offi­cial, contacted by phone, spoke on condition ofanonymity. 
In Washington, U.S. state Depart­ment spokesman Warren Magruder said, "We've heard those reports (of Marcos leaving) too, but we can't confirm them." 
Meanwhile, battle-dressed marines, firing tear gas and swinging truncheons, attacked clvlllans man­ning street barricades outside the military camp where Ramos and Enrile were entrenched. 
The marines dispersed hundreds of people supporting two senior military officials in an adjacent military camp who are demanding 
see MARCOS, page 5 


Minority awareness topic of unity week 
Station managers intend to resign after ban on homosexual message 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
AssistantNews Editor 
The station managers at both student-run radio stations have an­nounced their Intentions to resign after the administration told WSND­FM to stop running a public service announcement from a homosexual organization, said Vito Gagliardi, ex­ecutive news director of WSND-FM and WVFI-AM. 
Although neither WVFI-AM sta­
tion manager Reginald Daniel nor 
WSND-FM station manager Eileen 
Ridley has submitted a written 
resignation, both were absent at an 
executive board meeting yesterday, 
Gagliardi said. 
In addition, Daniel "is no longer 
fulfilling his responsibilities as the 
AM director or even his shifts as disc 
jockey," Gagliardi said. "I believe 
the same is true for her (Ridley)." 
Daniel and Ridley's resignations 
become effective Friday, the same 
day their terms as station managers 
previously had been scheduled to end, said Gagliardi, who learned thursday of their intentions to resign. 
Daniel declined comment, as did Ridley, who said that "the issue has not been resolved." 
The station managers' announce­ment came after Assistant Vice Presi­dent for Student Services Father Francis Cafarelli met with Ridley last week and told her that ad­ministrators no longer wanted WSND-FM disc jockeys to read an announcement from a group named 
Gays  and  Lesbians  at  Notre  
Dame/Saint  Mary's  <::ollege,  
Gagliardi said.  
Cafarelli  declined  to  comment,  

saying It was "premature to talk about it publicly." He did say, however, that he was not aware of Daniel and Ridley's intention to resign. 
After Cafarelll's meeting with Rid­ley, WSND-FM disc jockeys stopped reading the homosexual group's an­nouncements, he said. 
Cafarelli met with Gagliardi Friday and told the news director that several administrators, includ­ing University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, had received complaints about the announce­ments on the FM station, Gagliardi said. 
Cafarelli "only bannned the an­nouncement on the FM station be­cause that's the only station he was gettiflg complaints on," said Gagliardi. 
According to WVFI-AM disc jockey Tim Adams, however, WVFI­AM also had run the announce­ments. In addition, "there were a few occasions when ( WVFI-AM) DJs did not read the announcement In a straightforward way," said Adams. 
Adams added that he did not know whether WSND-FM disc jock­eys had failed to read the announce­ment In a serious manner. 
According to Gagliardi, Cafarelll and other administrators' reason for banning the announcement was 
see RADIO, page 4 
By CHRIS K. MURPHY 
News Staff 
In an effort to create a better understanding of the status of minority students, two campus groups are teaming up to present "A Focus on llnity Week" today through March l. 
The purpose of the week Is to make Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students aware of the lack of unity between minorities and other students, as well as the lack of unity among the different minority groups themselves, ac­~:.·ordlng to Beth McCahill, ex­ecutive coordinator for student government. 
"We want students to know that it's everyone's responsibility to help out in unifying the gap between minorities and stu­dents," said McCahill. 
She added, "A lot of students are not aware that the campus Is 92 percent white and only 3 per­cent Hispanic and 2 percent black. This should strike some students. Hopefully, through some statistics presented in the media and through a few rallies with guest speakers, we will be able lO bring to light how reveal­ing and Important these .statistics really are." 

Another minority group that will be participating in the aware­ness week is the Black Cultural Arts Council. The BCAC co­President Usa Boykin said she feels there is a necessity for some type of minority awareness week at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"In my opinion, there is a major problem at Notre Dame," Boynkin said. "There is a lack of unity even among the different minority groups and this makes It hard to get the various groups 
see UNITY, page 5 
The Observer 


In Brief 
Mrs. McDonald andMrs. Hamburger say there has beensome sizzling conversation since the two were paired in room 1043 of Harrisburg Hospital Wednesday. "I never thought about it. Me, a McDonald, with a Hamburger," Alzrio McDonald said. "I thought it was very interesting to say the least," Sara Hamburger said. Both said they frequent the fast-food restaurant,. but its staple, the hamburger, is not always their choice. 
Said Mrs. McDonald: "M~ favorite is a fish filet." -AP 
Talking houses have motorists doing double takes in the f,an Fernando Valley. "Bob bought this 3,000-square-foot house because of the quality lath-and-plaster construction and its many built-in features," says one of 150 messages being broadcast by the 
R.R. Gable company. A 90-second message can be heard on car radios tuned to 820 AM, at least while the cars are within 75 feet as they drive by. -AP 
Willie Nelson considered Yankee Stadium and the Was­hington Monument for the '86 FarmAid, but said he hopes to schedule the concert for his annual Fourth ofJuly picnic in Austin, Texas. Nelson was one of the organizers of the FarmAid concert in Champaign, Ill., that drew up to $10 million for distressed farmers.­
The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Overseas Development Network 
will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. The constitution will be signed at this meeting. All are invited to add their signature to the document. -The Observer 
College stQdents who wish to be considered for renewal grants from the State Student Assistance Commission ofln­diana must file their applications before March I. The state agency plans to offer a record high total ofmore than $31 million in grants to graduates of Indian high schools attending or planning to attend public or private colleges and universities in the state.-The Observer 
Father George Zabelka, a chaplain for the airmen who dropped the bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, will speak as part of the "living the Challenge of Peace" Lenten series. His presentation is tonight at 7:30 at the Center for Social Concerns. Zabelka will lecture on his conversion to non-violence because of the incompatibility ofviolence with the gospel. -The Observer 
An opening for the artist who designed the ban­ners for the Sophomore literary Festival will be tonight at 8. Hol­lianne Logan will unveil her banners at a reception on the first floor of the Memorial library. -The Observer 
A brown bag seminar will be sponsored by the Kellogg Institute tomorrow at noon in room 131 of Decio Hall. The speaker will be Roberto DaMatta, Kellogg Fellow, and his topic is "An Anthropologist Looks at a National Society: Notes and Reflec­tions on Brazil as a Society and as a Culture."-The Observer 
This Weekis Anti-apartheid Awareness Week in light ofthe March 4 referendum. Tonight there will be a benefit at the Alumni­Senior Club. All door proceeds go to the Bishop Tutu Relief Fund. ­
The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be sub­mitted at The Observer office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date ofpublication. OfInterests an­nounce free campus-wide events ofgeneral interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all OfInterests. -The Observer 

Weather 
Calling all sun pigs. Enjoy the sun's briefappearance today, as it will be partly sunny this afternoon, with a high in the low 30s. Partly cloudy and a bit colder tonight. Low 1 5 to 20. 


Design Editor........................ Mike Schnuck Viewpoint Layout ................ Maria Groner Design Assistant............ Mark Mclaughlin Features Copy Editor............... Tim Adams Typesetters ................................... Tom Small Features Layout ................. Mary Reynolds Mark B. Johnson ND Day Editor ................................. MJ Sully 
Pat Clark SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor.................... Keith HarrisonJr. Ad Design ................................ Usa Michaux Copy Editor............................... Alex Peltzer Sharon Emmite Sports Copy Editor ......... Dennis Corrigan Photographer........................... Todd Taylor Viewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck­
horst 
lb., ObK""r ( l'SPS ~99 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except durint~ exam and vacation periods.lbe ObMorv.,r is published hy the students ofthe l'ni\'erStt\ of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased fur 1~0 pe~ year ( llO per semester) by writing lb., ObKrver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana -+6~~6. 
~ ObK""' is a member of lbe Associated P'"'ss. All reproduction right> are 
rcsr,..cd. 
Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 2 



Junior Parents' Weekend more than meals, speeches 
I am neither a junior nor a parent, but despite beingin the minority this weekend of those who were, Junior Parents' Weekend had more meaning to me than simply directing an invasion of people to LaFortune Center or the bookstore. 
Sure, Junior Parents' Weekend is filled with a great deal ofsmall talk and introductions, speeches you have heard somewhere before, and yet another showing of "Wake Up The Echos," but beneath the superficial aspects of the weekend, there is something more. 
From an outsider's point of view of the festivities, juniors and parents gathered for more than the sole purpose of eating and drinking. in fact, JPW seems to serve as a time for parents to look into a world which they previously knew only from a distance, a world in which their children have lived for almost three years. 
Although JPW may appear as simply an extension of the annual high school or grade school "parent/teacher" night, in that situation parents faced the prospect of hearing "Johnny just doesn't behave 

ScoH Bearby 
'\ssistant News Editor 
Parents hear those stories that they otherwise wouldn't hear: when they knocked on Father Hes­burgh's office door at midnight or when they were found sound asleep on the floor after a very long all­nighter. 
More importantly, I saw parents and juniors going beyond the trivial conversations. The topics ranged from family life to terrorism ... life in general. Groups of parents and children listened to each other's views in an adult, equal setting. 
ButJPW seemed not to be 
I 00 percent serious. Parents 

in class; something must be and their students were just done about him " from all of having a good time. his teachers. During JPW, JPW is fun. It seems to be a parents can see what well-rounded weekend well "something" their son or worth the travel investment daughter has done on his or and possibility of having to her own to prepare for adult stay in an Elkhart motel. life. However, JPW is not for 
JPW marks a time when juniors alone. While juniors parents can guage just how and parents enjoy the fine far their children have come cuisine of University Food since dropping them off Services (above the typical freshmen year. This is the dining hall variety), fresh­opportunity to gain new in­men, sophomores and even sights about how their sons seniors labor as waiters and or daughters are changing in dishwashers. between freshmen orienta­Their reason is not so that 

tion and graduation day. Al­though parents get glimpses of these changes at home during school breaks, JPW offers an environment of which the parents are not ac­customed, an environment far removed from the area they grew up in. Parents are the guests of their children for an entire weekend; they are not here to serve as dorm room movers or to run endless errands to the local Kroger's and University Park Mall. 
For alumni and regular football tailgaters, this is not another hectic visit to the campus. It seems JPW is meant to be a relaxing weekend where parents and stu­dents can just get to know each other on a more equal basis. 
For almost three years most parents only can catch glimpses of their child's successes and failures at Notre Dame. Now they get to meet their junior's friends. 
Students get to hear stories from visiting parents' friends that they otherwise would not have heard: about their "first love" in second grade or about the time they climbed a tree and couldn't get back down. 
Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
everyone has a good time; 
the reason is money. Be­cause of JPW, more people can finance spring break travel every y~ear. More students are able to work on their Florida tans. 
Of course, most students choose to work or leave town since there is generally nothing else to do on campus that weekend. 
Campus security once again becomes understanding as you are not obliged to provide next ofkin before the gate guard lets you pass and student cars are free to use on-campus parking lots whether there are parents in 
--~ 
the car or not (definitely not the case in most in­
stances). 
Of course the most significant point to make about 
Junior Parents' Weekend for those who are not juniors 
is that it marks the end of the very un~xciting month of 
Feburary. 
Everyone seems to benefit from JPW somehow. For 
this sophomore, it makes me look forward to next year. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAYES BABIES 

Want to Make a Difference on the 
Notre Dame Campus? 
Applications available fornext year,s 
*General Business Manager *Controller *Student Activities Board Manager 
Applications available at the SAB offices (2nd Floor LaFortune) 

Applications due February-27 
Gain practical business experience -----·whileimproving social life! -----• 

~----------------.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--~-~----------~------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 


Congress to eye Nicaraguan aid while Reagan pleads for defense 
WASHINGTON · Much of the debate in Congress this week will focus on President Reagan's am· bitious plans for military spending and his expected request for S I 00 million in aid to Nicaraguan rebels. 
Legislators also are expected to renew their denunciations of fraud in the Feb. 7 Philippine presidential election and press calls for President Ferdinand Marcos to step aside. 
Meanwhile, the leaders of the House and Senate budget commit· tees will be taking some informal, preliminary steps that could set the stage for movement toward a bipar­tisan budget compromise. 
On Wednesday, Reagan is scheduled to deliver a nationally broadcast address to discuss his views on military spending and make a pitch for gaining congres­sional approval of no million in military aid and 130 million in economic assistance for the rebels fighting Nicaragua's leftist regime. 
Faced with a skeptical Congress, the president has participated in a series of events aimed at building support for the aid. 
Last Thursday, the president briefly visited Grenada, where U.S. 

Domenici: budget law fatalistic 
As!loclated Press 
WASHINGTON · The chair­man of the Senate budget com· mittee told the nation's governors yesteray that the balanced-budget law is "a planned train wreck," but he voiced optimism that Congress would act to avoid scheduled, automatic spending cuts. 
Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M., said the odds are better than SO· 'iO that Congress will "pull the switch and the wreck will be avoided," by passing its own budget that meets the deficit· reduction targets of the Gramm­Rudman balanced-budget law. 
"It is best analogized as a planned train wreck. No one 

.SAB P~ 
•
•
•
• • 
STEPAN CENTER  
MARCHB  
7p.m.  
CAROL LEIFER  SEAN MOREY  
Saturday Night Live writer  Tonight Show with Johnny  
9 appearances on David Letterman  The Merv Griffin Show  
one ofAmerica's hottest comics!  An Evening at the Improv.  
•• 

• 
Tickets available at the TicketStub for $4 Student Activities BoartJ•.••••• : 
troops participated in a military ac­tion to remove a Marxist junta in 1983. Administration officials, making arguments for ald to the Nicaraguan rebels, have pointed to Grenada as an example of how com· munist influence can be turned back in this hemisphere. 
On Saturday, Reagan said in his 

weekly radio address, "Helping 
those fighting for their own freedom 
in Nicaragua is both morally right 
and vital to our own national 
security. 
"If the communists consolidate 

their power, their campaign of 
violence throughout central 
America will go into high gear, 
bringing new dangers and sending 
hundreds of thousands of refugees 
streaming toward our 2,000-mile­
long southern border," the presi­
dent said. 
Today, administration officials are 

expected to release an intercepted 
Nicaraguan government document 
outlining a campaign of misinforma· 
tion aimed at influencing U.S. policy. 
House Speaker Thomas O'NeillJr., D-Mass., has said that carrying out the administration plan for aid would only bring "slaughter and 
would plan a train wreck, but we did," Domenici said. 
Domenici, speaking to the ex­ecutive committee of the Na­tional Governors Association, said the final budget solution may include some additional tax revenues to "glue it all together." 
But Domenici, who offered few details of what he thought the budget would look like, said a major increase in taxes for the purpose ofreducing the deficit is unlikely, even if included in a package ofoverall tax reform. 
Domenici spoke as the gover­nors began their annual winter meeting. They were attending a black-tie dinner and reception at the White House in the evening, and were going back to the ex· humiliation" of the rebels, resulting in "disaster and shame" that would lead to the introduction of U.S. troops in Nicaragua. 
House Majority Leader Jim Wright, D-Texas, is expected to deliver a similar message in the for­mal Democratic response following Reagan's Wednesday night address. 
O'Neill, Wright and other senior Democrats have said that instead of military aid, the United States should be doing more to foster negotiations among the nations in the region. 
The president also is expected to use his speech on Wednesday to dis­cuss his request for 1320.3 billion in military spending authority for the fiscal year beginnins Oct. 1. That would be about an 8 percent in­crease· after accounting for inflation · from the current level Congress ap­proved last December. 
Reagan has argued that the Soviet military threat and ongoing arms negotiations with the Soviet Union make it essential to maintain a high level ofPentagon spending. 
However, many in Congress say such spending must be restrained if federal spending is to be brought un­der control. 
ecutive mansion this morning for a meeting with President Reagan. 
The governors, their numbers heavily dominated by Democrats, arrived at the meeting after their leaders at· tacked Reagan's budget proposal for fiscal 1987. But there was some agreement with Reagan on the major budget issues of taxes and Social Security. 
An Associated Press survey of the governors found a substantial majority opposing a federal tax increase to whittle at the federal budget deficit, or at least saying any boost in taxes ought to be only a last resort. They were also opposed to cutbacks in Social Security to lower deficits. 

Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 3 
Fifth-year student Rick Carr tries his hand at clay sculpture on the pottery wheel in the Riley Art Building this weekend. 


Communist congress to convene tomorrow 
MOSCOW · Communist Party leader Mikhail Gorbachev con· venes a national party congress on tomorrow aimed at rekindling faith in the nation's leadership, spurring economic progress and setting a course for future foreign policy. 
Five thousand Soviet delegates, joined by guests from foreign Communist parties, will gather at the Kremlin Palace of Congresses for more than a week of speeches and discussion of a revised party program, party rules and economic and political guidelines. 
The congress will be the 27th in the party's history. Many previous congresses have marked turning points in party policy. 
Gorbachev's congress will open exactly 30 years from the 
"LO THE tTootJbinesJ ~oLL! WE hQve. a-l'lew 1\fENIJ A.NIJ Low PJOI!E.S j S_pec-ial SaviNGS o.N /<1o/lli7uES Alii) Was;·~·:!: ~1~ NEW! ~PAG-Hl77I b~~~~ldrvlie~ ' 
tl~y 011/? NEATBALL SAIIbWICH, L•"-11e4tbo.1.1s; ~ aJJd. thUS~!. ~ OU~ OWN SPtWt£. /bllsriJ€£Fw1THfREAHt Zra..lfo11 $Mice., tWHJNS ql/tl c.heest •AlL~nJwtcltu sEit'IED oN Btj I+aliCAJ 8uN8 oltll c.-..,,+J, O.ips ·-' ":J.:!!J~ 


~;;1883, 
day that Nikita Khrushchev, at the 20th congress in 1956, denounced Josef Stalin's "cult of personality" and the bloody purges carried out in Stalin's name. 
Gorbachev and many of the party officials, ministers and economic managers he has brought into power in his 11 months of rule were in their 20s then. In the ensuing years, the na· tion has seen a series of widely differing leadership styles. 
Khrushchev boasted of huge economic progress ahead for the Soviet Union. In the 1961 party program, overseen by Khrushchev, the Kremlin promised the nation a near utopia. Khrushchev was ousted from power in 1964 and his name was nearly erased from history books. 



----~------~--~-----~-­
The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 4 
Researcher says smoking habits causing shorter female life spans 
PITfSBURGH-Women are losing their life expectancy advantage over men becauseofthe growing number offemale smokers, not because ofin­creased stress, a researcher said Saturday. 
"The life expectancy of men and women will be about the same in the next 4(, to 50 years," said Gus Miller, director of Studies on Smoking Inc., a non-profit group in EBORO. 
"Firstly, women are smoking more Secondly, men in the older age have been quitting smoking double the rate of women, so they are living longer," he said in a telephone interview. 
Miller, 61, a statistician and one­time smoker, studied statistics compiled by the National Center for Health Statistics for American men and women who died after age 30 between 1920 and 1983. 
He found that women lived an average of one or two years longer than men in 1920, a ratio that climbed to a high of 7.8 years in the late 1970s. 
The longety difference has fal­len steadily since then and stood at sen years in 1983, the latest year for which accurate figures are available, Miller said. 
The average American man lived to be 71.7 years old in 1983, while the average woman lived to be 78.7. 

ACLU blasts porn commission 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A constitutional rights group charged yesterday that a pornography commission es­tablished by Attorney General Ed­win Meese dwells on "bizarre sexual practices" while disregarding fair fact-finding methods. 
"Our worst fears have been surpassed," American Civil Uberties Union legislative counsel Barry Lynn said in a 31-page report on the Attor­ney General's Commission on Por­nography. 
"Even though many commissioners concede they have only a rudimentary understandingof the law, they continue to spend more time discussing bizarre sexual practices than in learning anything 
about  the  First  Amendment,"  he  
said.  
He  said  commission  methods  

have been "so intellectually indefen­sible that they taint the integrity and credibility ofany final recommenda­tions." 
The Justice Department issued a statement from commission Chair­man Henry Hudson, Arlington County, Va., prosecutor, saying the 

Spring Film Series 
a.
~ 

&. I HE AIRE Once Upon A Time In The West Possibly the lost great Western mode, certainly one of the best half-dozen ever. Leone's epic rewnt1ng of the Western myth stars Charles Bronson. Henry Fonda. and Joson Robards You haven't seen it until you've seen it in Cinemoscope Mon. 7:00  e. I HE AIRE The Locket A Kleptomaniac's post indiscre­lions imperil her current happiness in this convoluted and excessive voritotion on baroque film nair plots. A young Robert Mitchum stars. Tues. 7:30  II  
Life Is A Bed Of Roses In his latest cinematic offering. Aloin Resnois weaves together three narrative strands. all centered around a spectacular deco/rococo Pleasure Dome built in the French countryside on the eve of WWI. The first strand involves the fanatically idealistic owner's attempt to usher in a new "Age of Happiness": the second strand. 60 years later. involves squabbling educators: the third focuses on the imaginative life of the chilo. With on all star cost. Fri. 7:30 & 9:30  
UNION PACIFIC has been rescheduled for 9:05pm Tues., Feb. 25  
All films ore shown 1n the Annenberg Auditorium in the Sn1teI  

"Smoking is the best explanation of the longevity differences," he said. "Increased rates of mortality closely correspond to the smoking habits of men and women over the past century." 
Miller discounts theories that at­tribute the widening longevity ratio, at ,,.,.,.t until the 1980s, to a genetic 
"Increased rates of mortality close­ly correspond to the smoking habits of men and women over the past century." 
inferiority among men or hormone protection among women. 
He also does not accept the ex­planation that women's emergence in high-pressure jobs has shortened their life expectancy. 
"Stress is not the answer," he said, adding that he's comparing male smokers in high-pressure jobs with their non-smoking male counter­parts. 
panel has been fair and has con­sidered a wide variety ofopinion. 
ACLU allegations were "not sup­ported by the record ofthe hearings conducted by the commission," the statement said, adding that since the commission has made no final deci­sions on recommendations, specific comment on the ACLU criticism would be "premature and inapprop­priate." 
The 63-year-old civil liberties group said hearings in six cities over the past 11 months have featured biased witnesses, "limited" social science data and "inordinate atten­tion to aberrant sexual practices." 
"The commtsston staff was directed to purchase several glossy, interracial sex publications and a magazine called Young Girls in Bondage" while on a Sept. 11 visit to "three Houston peep shows," the report said. 
"It is as if by finding the single most despicable scene of sexual conduct ever photographed the commission would be justified in ur­ging suppresion of all sexually oriented material," it said. 
The 11-member commission named by Meese in March 1985 

Black men and women, for ex­ample, lived to about the same age in 1920, Miller said. But once black males began smoking in greater numbers after World War II, the gap widened and peaked at 8.8 years during the 1970s, he said. 
The longevity difference between black men and women stood at about 8.2 years in 1983. 
"Putting these two (comparisons) together, none of the other theories can come close to explaining it," he said. 
Miller, whose latest findings were reported in the February edition of the New York State Journal of Medicine, preously studied more than ,000 people over age 30 who died during the 970s. 
He found that non-smoking males lived an arage of 2 years longer than smoking males and that non­smoking females lived an average of 6 years longer than female smokers. 
In a study published two years ago, Miller reported that women whose husbands smoked cigarettes died of cancer at nearly twice the rate of those whose husbands did not smoke 
He also found that non-smoking wives who worked outside the home, and thus were eosed to cigarette smokers, had a higher in­cidence ofcancer than non-smoking wives who remained at home where no one smoked. 
meets next week in Scottsdale, Ariz., 
to draft recommendations due in June. 
Meese established the panel after President Reagan called in May 1984 for a study of new evidence that has become available since a 1970 federal commission found no links between pornography and anti­social behavior and urged repeal of numerous obscenity laws. 
Lynn told reporters Friday he ex­pects the commission to urge approval ofsweeping Senate legisla­tion that would violate constitu­tional rights. In specific, he criticized a measure sponsored by Sen. Paul Trible, R-Va., to outlaw use of home computers to transmit sexual information about children. 
Lynn said the ACLU would not oppose a ban on plotting crimes against children but believes Trible's measure overshoots that tar­get. 
"Mr. Trible isn't really interested in drawing those narrowbills that do what he says his bills do," Lynn said. "Mr. Trible is interested in stopping adults from communicating about sex." 
,..




(*** * * * * * * * * * * * ****;
f DISTINGUISHED STlJDENT : 
iC ~ AWARD 
~ The Notre Da111e Alu111td Assoelatfon will ••aeeept1n1 no111lnat1... ~ 
: frolll Fe•ruar~ 14•.18 for theSth annual Dlstln8UishedStudent iC Award. The DlstlnlulshedStudentAward was erMted to honor•• ~ outstand•nlseniorstudentat the Unlverslt~ •ased on the followlnl ~criteria: 
:; 1 Service to Notre Dame, 
•.~M )

2) Service to the Community, and, 
·i 

3) Good Academic Standing. 
~ Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on ~ the second floor of the Administration Building, The Centerfor :; Social Concerns" and at Campus Ministry Office in the 
~ Memorial Library : Nominations must be submitted to the Association by F•IJ• .ZI, 1986. 
~********************************************..******~ 

Britain'sPrince Charles finds the cowboy hatpresented to him on his arrrival atAustin, Texas, a bit too large. The prince joined state officials last week at tbe opening ceremonies of the I50th anniversary ofTexas' indeper~dence from Mexico. 

Radio 
continuedfrom page 1 
"that there's no way you can disas­sociate that (homosexual group's) message and Notre Dame because the station is named WSND and is owned by Notre Dame." Disc jock­eys also say "several times each hour that they are broadcasting live from the tower of O'Shaughnessy Hall on the campus ofNotre Dame." 
Cafarelli also told Gagliardi that the announcement, which like all public service announcements was run free ofcharge, "was counter to a lot of things that a Catholic univer­sity should stand for," Gagliardi said. 
According to WVFI-AM program­ming supervisor John Rogers, the group's announcement "gave basi­cally who they were, what their membership consisted of, and said that if you'd like to know more, here's the address." 
"It (the announcement) was like any other type announcement sent to the station just as something from the Glee Club," said Rogers. 
According to Gagliardi, "Ridley has had no prior beef with the ad­ministration, whereas Daniel has 
The UmverSity ofNotre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents 
A Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production 
\\·ith 1{1 h:n St1 >11111 >Ill ;1~ l'n >~(x:n > 
DhcledbvMark -inion 
had a series of conflicts and con­frontations with the administra­tion." 
Daniel has asked the administration for an increase in the budget for the station next year and funds to replace WVFI-AM's problem-plagued transmitter sys­tem. Cafarelli has said the station "has a pretty good chance" ofreceiv­ing a budget increase and may receive funding for the system. 
The banning of the announce­ment, however, poses a problem beyond just the losing oftwo station managers, he said. 
"The announcement's ban represents the potential for the ad­ministration to directly control what goes out on air," he said. 
"Considering the power, espe­cially financially, that the admistra­tion has over us, we cannot guarantee that they will not, quote, take us over," Gagliardi said. "They could tell us what music to play and how to operate. "They haven't told that to us yet, but considering the financial power they have over us, they could," he said. "But I don't expect it." 
~ 
i1;. 
~ 
. ..._ 
~ 
: : 
-------·---------------------------------------------------------------------­
·The Observer 
Monday, February 24, 1986-page 5 

Marcos 
continuedfrom page 1 
that President Ferdinand Marcos resign and hand over power to Corazon Aquino. She claims she defeated Marcos in the Feb. 7 presidential election. 
Witnesses said some students tried to link arms to stop and block the marines. 
Many people tumbled and fell as they tried to escape the troopers, ac­cording to radio reports from the 
scene. There were no immediate 
reports on casualties. 
In Wa.o;hington, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said last night, "The president appealed ear­lier today to President Marcos to avoid an attack against other ele­
ments of the Philippine armed forces. Regrettably, there are now reports ofan attack." 
Speakes said Reagan sent Marcos a message through diplomatic chan­nels saying America "cannot con­tinue our existing military assistance If the government uses that aid 
against other elements of the 
Philippine military that enjoy popular backing." 
The pro-government marines launched their attack minutes before 6 am., just as dawn was breaking. 
Hats Off to the Irish 

Wear your Irish painter's cap to the game On sale at the Dining Hall. 
Today and tomorrow-$/ 
~~r--~ f'~'l\ 
Observer corrections 


Unity 
continuedfrom page 1 
together to achieve the common goal of unification." 
Boykln said that it is the responsibility of all students to work for a feeling ofcloseness on both campuses. She said, "Most people come from high schools with few minorities. We can make it better for everyone in general to feel more unified. We are trying to encourage everyone to participate. We called it a 'Focus on Unity Week' because we wanted to emphasize a unity among all students including minorities." 
Scheduled events for the week start Wednesday at noon when the Farm Labor Organizing Com­mittee will hold a news con­ference, featuring the FLOC president. Also Wednesday is a FLOC victory party for the Campbell's boycotte in the Nazz. A mass will be held Wednesday at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. 
Thrusday the week continues with a show by Italian dancers at 8 p.m. The location is to be an­nounced. Friday afternoon there will be a rally on the Administra­tion Building steps at 3:30. Satur· day will feature a black cultural arts fashion show in the Monogram room of the ACC at 7 
p.m. The week will end Sunday with a non-denominational service at 4:15p.m. at the Grotto. 
Yes, this is Greg Otto. * He turned 20 yesterday. • # After all these years, * he still looks thesame... # hasn't changed a bit. * Girls stop by 104 Dillon * and run your fingers ! through that wild hair. * 
*
*
* 


Failing Indiana farmer enters mental hospital
Because of problems with typesetting, Assistant Vice Presi­dent for Student Services Father Francis Cafarelli was misquoted. In addition, a paragraph quoting WVFI-AM and WSND-FM Chief Engineer Mike Thesing was omitted. The correct version should read: 
Cafarelli said he didn't know the chances of WVFI-AM receiv· ing any funds or the amount the station would receive ifthe funds were appropriated. He did say, however, that he is "going for the goal of getting the station received in all the halls as quickly as possible." 
Thesing, however, said that he sees the station "getting enough money to replace a couple of things, but that wouldn't be enough." 

Associated Press 
REMINGTON, Ind. · A farmer facing foreclosure on land that once belonged to his parents was hospi­talized at a mental health center yes­terday after firing shots toward officers during a four-hour standoff, state police said. 
Cpl. Patrick Calkins said David Berenda, 37, ofrural Remington was admitted early yesterday to the Wabash Valley Hospital Mental Health Center in West Lafayette. No 
charges  were  lodged  against  
Berenda, Calkins said.  
Berenda  surrendered  without  

force to authorities at 10:35 p.m. Saturday after an ordeal in which he first threatened suicide, led police on a short high-speed chase and then fired shots over the heads oflaw of­ficers at his 1,000-acre farm, Calkins said. 
"It was more a threatening action than to cause injury," Calkins said of the gunfire. No one was hurt and there was no damage, he added. 
State Police Sgt. Peter Popplewell said Jasper County sherift's deputies notified Berenda last week that the farm four miles west of Remington would be foreclosed upon. On Satur­day, officials of the Federal Land Bank notified Berenda he needed to vacate the farm by March 4. 
Popplewell said the farmer's financial troubles made him desparate. 
"He said he was mad at the system, mad at the people repossessing his farm," Popplewell said. "He said nobody understands. He said, what's he going to do now? how's he going to support his family?" 
Berenda is married and has several children, Popplewell said. Berenda had just bought the farmhouse and grew up on the farm. 
The incident began about 6:30 
p.m. when Berenda left the house, threatening suicide. A relative called police and there was a five-minute chase on rural roads in southern Jasper County, police said. 
The chase ended back at the farm and Berenda fired several shots In the air over the heads of officers, police said. About 2~ units from the state police and Jasper County sherift's department responded and police blocked the roads leading to the farmhouse. 

************************************************** 
! TheStudentAetlvltes Board presents ! 
* * 

!WINTER FESTIVAl. !986! 
* *
T-Monday, Feb. 24 9pm-Midnight ; 
* * 
: Free bowling at Beacon Bowl ! * *
! Free bus transportation leaves main circle at 8:30, 9:00, 9:30 ! 
* *
* * 
: Tuesday, Feb. 25 9pm -Midnight--t : Free Outdoor Skating at Stepan Basketball Courts ! 
* *
* *
! Refreshments, hot chocolate, s'mores, D.J. ! 
* !
T-Thursday, Feb. 27 6pm-9pm . * 
* * 
: Free Cross Country Skiing on the N.D. golf course : 
* *
! D.J., refreshments and a bonfire prov.lded at the clubhouse. ! 
* *
* * 
:; Friday, Feb. 28 9:30pm -12:30am---.:­
: 'Life's a Beach' Party In South Dining Hall ~ ! Admission Is $1 at the doorj Come aressed In beach oHire to this ~ 
* pre-Spring Break bash. Prizes (including a free trip for.2 to * ! Ft. Lauderdale will be raffled off.) Refreshments and music by the !! band 'Cold Drinks' will be provided. ! 
* *
!-Saturday, March 1 9pm-Midnight ~ 
:* Undergraduate Night at Senior Alumni Club :* 
!* Co-sponsored with the Around the Corner Club. Admission Is free. : * ! Refreshments and bona 'Cold Drinks' prov.lded. ! 
* * 
* * 
* * 
~************************************************* 

Your plasma makes adifference. 
HJ:Yfl' no CIOUOt\ 
ollbOur •r-yout 
OONIOI1 mak~ I 
doflerencr rnr 
doflerencr~ 
~illD'IINO· 
ong i noriNI. ICI.,.Ife CJ being 111 onva~a r~ ~ Nve a 01000 a­~ l1efnOilllolla. wnocn-means rnar rrw 
01000 camor CIOI D'1 orself rney IIII!VIOUIIV le<l 'llltiiV IN!fte<f<llfe lleea<M rnev cOUICitlletd 10 aum from a nwo-,....v T-v rnev"" De lf~lf<l Wlfn) ClOrlfiQ IXICJ INI llleo< own DOdofS ao noiiii()()..C;e 
And that dotting factor Is taken frOm the plasma you donate. 
HOw much plaSma 
IS needed? A101 Fo' .._,.,one 
~nr o1 DIWTWI ~" lllilll 1 r~IA o1 me CIOCtfiQ liiCtOI' ~need. so ,au""* ll'e need lor liO'Qf ~afPIWna JURfor ­
l)hiiiC\ AnO ll'oOuWnaS olin!\ of I)IWTWI .,ulfQ 
on I'IO!PUIS II'CI 
rmergency rooms 
rvery 111'1 to Y\11! 
lllilfl'll\11!'1 

gJ. 
iUJ?., 
CashForYourdonation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PlASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation is important, so important that we'll poy $7.00 for your first donation and $9.00 if you donate a second time within thtt some ...... calendar week. In •xldltion, if you meet the physical requirements you'll be given a FREE physical and $60.00 worth of FREE Lob Test1 
Open. TUES., WED., THURS., FRI., 9:1)()-5:00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Lincolnwav West, South Bend 

New Donors Bring in this ad for a $4Bonus ~Jfter your first donation. 
HOw Is plasma different from whole blood? 
PINI\i os rre IIQuoO ., wnocn DIOOCI cell •• rrn· llQIIf<l AIJCll'ounlrfiY naif o1111o0a 0\ DIWTWI rre DIOOCI Clllllf -~lf<l ftom VQJI DIWTWI )I ll'e CICnlr Cftlle< D'1 I IIIOC~S UleO piiV1\IC)Ili!I-II'CI 
rrrurneo ro VQJI Doov rre DIWTWI r~~ten from yOur 01000 0\ ollbOul 9N ITWlef~ II'CI Wile<. mo\1 of rre remanatr os 11101-n" rnew 1110' 
ltroS INI llf ulfQ 10 
ltNIIX'(ll)lf Wlln VIllOUS 
~CJ ~ors 


The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 6 


Class of '87's Junior Parents' Weekend 

Photos by Todd P. Taylor 

Notre Dame juniors turned the tables on their parents this weekend as the students entertained Mom and Dad for the three days ofJunior Parents' Weekend. Above left, Shenanigans performs in the Annenberg Auditorium Saturday as part of the campus-wide open house. Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz, above right, addresses the clos­ing Sunday brunch crowd. Kristin Sanders and her mother, Loretta Sanders, enjoy the hors d'oeuvres at one of the booths at the cocktail dance Friday night. Below left, University President Theodore Hesburgh speaks to the 34th, and largest, audience at Saturday's President's Dinner. Left, Dan Dooley entertains his mother, Nancy Dooley, on the dance floor at the cocktail dance. 
"" 
\ ~-­

la..J'~-·· ~)~ 

Special to The Observer 
P 
repare yourselves for a storm of 
incredible proportions, a 
howling nightmare powerful 
enough to destroy anything in its 
path. Prepare yourselves for "The 
Tempest." 
William Shakespeare's last and most magical play, "The Tempest," the third Notre Dame and Saint Mary's production of the season at Washington Hall, will make a stop at Notre Uame this week and next. 
What Is unusual about this production is that a professional actor from Chicago, Robert Stor­mont, will be playing the role of Prospero In the play. which is directed by Mark Pilkinton, chair­man of Notre Dame's communica­tion and theatre department. 
Pilkinton said ofStormont, "It will be a great experience for our students to act with someone ofhis caliber. Acting opposite a profes­sional usually raises the level of concentration in students, and consequently Improves their per­formances." 
Stormont said that a strange string ofcoincidences led up to him receiving this particular role. A good friend unexpectedly called him up with the offer to play Prospero, and both Stormont and his friend said, "It's a small world," and the deal was solidified. This type ofcoincidence happens often in acting, according to Stormont. "Besides, I thought it would be a good experience" to perform at Notre Dame, Stormont added. 
''Ithink 
Shakespeare is . .. the best writer the world has ever known.'' 
-Robert Stormont 
Along with his acting role in "The Tempest," Stormont also will be conducting acting workshops, both with classes and outside ofclass. He said he feels that Notre Dame drama students, and actors in general, benefit more from hands-on ex­perience with professional actors than lectures by professors with much knowledge ofacting and theater. 
Stormont's experience in acting is extensive, and his forte is Shakespearean theater. "I think Shakespeare is wonderful. He is the best writer the world has ever known, and his writing is warm and human -full offunny guys, bad guys and funny bad guys." 
"The Tempest" is full ofintrigu­ing characters, like Prospero's evil brother Antonio, who usurps Prospero's dukedom early in the play. Later in the play, a spirit named Ariel helps Prospero in his search for his brother. Prospero himselfuses his magic to seek a prosperous ending to the story. 
This particular production of "The Tempest" will be slightly altered, according to Pilkinton. "We have changed a word here and there to make the play more under­standable," he said. He also allows Prospero to struggle with his magi­cal power, instead ofwielding it with ease. "I would like Prospero to struggle to make his magic work .... IfProspero believes that at any moment his power could fail and all would be lost, it will heighten the dramatic effect ofhis magic," said Pilkinton. 
"The Tempest" will play Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights at 8:10p.m. at Washington Hall, both this week and next. Tick­ets cost S6 for main floor seats, S5 for balcony seats and S4 for stu­dents. 

Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 7 
SHUT UP! 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunch box 
I 

'm convinced that this campus is full complainers-people who just never seem to be happy. Cynical and pessimistic, they spend their four years at Notre Dame groaning, grumbling, and . griping. I think we all know the type. 
Last Friday, I had the dubious distinction ofeati11g lunch with one such individual. He's a guy from class whose p•:rsonality in many ways resembles a dark storm cloud. He's always finding things about the school to fuss and rag and moan about. Some people like to call him Willie the Whiner. 
Willie threw down his Observer and looked across the lunch table at me, disgust written all over his face. 
"Can you believe what Holtz is doing?" he asked me. "He's got a 
lot of nerve recruiting that quarterback Tony Rice. Have you seen 
the numbers on that guy?" 
Yeah, sure-7,000 yards total offense, 40 touchdown passes, only 
two career losses .... 
"No, that's not what I mean," said Willie. "I'm talking about his 
SAT scores-640 total. I'm shocked that this place would lower its 
standards like that to recruit intellectually inferior athletes." l What do you mean by intellectually inferior? 
"Well, my sister tried to get into NO last year," Willie said, "and 
she got rejected. Her SAT scores were double what Rice got. 
Where's the integrity around here?" 
Can your sister throw a football? 
"What's that got to do with it?" 
Everything. Notre Dame doesn't need another person with high 
SAT scores-heck, this place is oozing with high s<-hool valedic­
torians. What this universityrea/(y needs is somebnJy who can 
toss the old pigskin, run like lightning and bring back Notre Uame 
football fever. 
"But he'll never make it in the classroom," Willie protested. 
Give the guy a chance. Charles Dickens and Thomas Edison 
never even graduated frorpgrade school, much less took the SATs. 
They did all right for themselves, didn't they? 
Willie the Whiner stared at me blankly for a few seconds, then 
took a bite ofhis fried fish sandwich. 
"You know," he said. "I'm sick and tired of this university 
dictating morality to me. I should be able to make up my own mind 
whether or not to eat meat on Fridays during Lent. This fish 
sandwich is offensive." 
Well, there's.always a pretty good selection ofcereal here-Apple 
Jacks, Raisin Bran, Cap'n Crunch .... 
"Yeah, Cap'n Crunch with no cruncbberries. And those plastic 
cereal dispensers here in South Dining Hall have got to be the 
dumbest things in the world." 
I might have to agree with you on that one, Willie. 
"Speaking ofdumb things," he continued, "when are they going 
to finish that Fieldhouse monument? It looks even uglier than it did 
in the plans." 
I'm sure it'll look nice when they're finished. The same goes for 
that addition on LaFortune -that'll be a big improvement. 
"Yeah, they'll probably finish LaFortune about the time I'm back 
for my 1Oth year class reunion," whined Willie. "Then they'll hit 
me up for a donation and make me pay for it. Meanwhile, our 
student center is in shambles, just like the whole social life here ­
shambles!" 
C'mon, the social life isn't all that bad. How about the SYRs? 
"I have a rotten time at my SYRs. My dates always leave early on 
me, the unappreciative wenches. They try to tell me that I'm too 
negative about things." 
I don't know what would make them think that. 
"Me either," muttered Willie."And you know what else really 
peeves me? Last Monday was President's Day -all the schools and 
businesses in the entire nation were closed. But does Notre Dame 
close? Noooo. Classes are still in session. I guess that just proves it." 
Proves what? 
"Proves that the administration is made up ofa bunch of 
communists." 
Communists? 
"Sure. They don't respect national holidays. They slap us with the 
alcohol policy and the parietals rulings. They've taken away all our 
freedom and all our fun. Face it, this place is run by communists." 
r really think you're exaggerating a bit, WHile. 
"No, it's been this w~y since the founding of the University. 
Father Sorin didn't want us to have any fun, either." 
How can you possibly make a statement like that? 
"Well, just look where he chose to situate this place-South 
Bend, Indiana -a city with rotten weather, lousy radio stations and 
a stirlldng ethanol plantr 
I dpn't think Father Sorin was too concerned about radio stations 
and the ethanol plant back in 1842. 
"He should have planned ahead." Willie wiped his mouth and got 
up to leave. "I've gotta run," he said. "I have to cash a check at the 
Cashier's Office." 
Isn't it amazing how the ladies that work there are always in such 
a wonderful mood? They're always so nice and friendly. 
"Yeah, they must be up to something," Willie said. "You can 
never trust a smiling person. Actually, I think it's just part ofthe 
administration's scheme to make it appear like people arc happy 
here." 
Well, I'm happy here. 
"I always knew there was something about you I didn't like." 
Willie the Whiner picked up his tray and left the table. I breathed a 
deep sigh ofreliefas the dark storm cloud followed him out. 
~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_________________M_o_nd_~_,F_eb_ru_ary_2_4,_19-86--p-~-e8 
Unlikely couples give 'Heart Day' a new meaning 
Recently, we celebrated the most romantic day of the year, Valentine's Day. "Heart Day" brings to mind visions ofromance, love, roses and happy couples in love -couples like Romeo and Juliet, Bogy and Bacall, Sir l.an­celot and Guinevere, or maybe even Mom and Dad. Tr-.ese reprrsent some of the greatest r romantic pairings of all time. Great. But have r you ever thought about what some of most r mismatched couples in the world could be? 
Well, I did. And thankfully that is all I did.
~ 
Think. Because if these couples really got
r 
together they could cause nothing less than
r 
"The Fall of Rome -Part II." 
~  Carol Brown  
r  
r r  in these times  
r  
r r  In current news, let's say. . . Marcos and Aquino. If marriage is based on trust, can you  
~  imagine  where  these  two  would  be?  
"Ferdinand, where were you last night? Stuff­ 
ing the ballot boxes again, huh ?" How's that  
for marital bliss?  
As long as we are  in the political realm,  
picture  the  newly wed couple of Ronald  
Reagan  and  Geraldine  Ferraro-Reagan.  
(Warning: attempting this vision at home may  
be hazardous to the stability of your political  
identity). Granted, it is normal for even the  
happiest couples to experience disagreement  
on  some  issues,  but  these  two  would  
definitely take the cake -which after Ronnie  
had thickly iced it to preserve the status quo,  

Geraldine would promptly proceed to cut it up and distribute it to the poor. And could this couple ever give a simple party? What kind? Republican or Democrat? 
And what couple could possibly form a greater "morality-mismatch" than the bible­thumping Reverend Jerry Falwell and America's most humorous sex-therapist, Dr. Ruth Westhei,mer? Just to think of that first night of their honeymoon gives the word a 

Or, how about this typical childhood scene: "T, honey, when Mr. Jones said he was taking Troop 732 on a survival outing in the country, I don't think he meant for you to bring all that military gear. Besides you might scare off the other little boys." "What! I pity the fool who would dare to mess with my G.l. Joe army gear!" And poor Erma would not only have to deal with the usual colds, bumps and scrapes of childhood, but . . . "Dr. Smith I just don't 
know what to do with T. All ofthose chains he 
wears are causing an awful rash on his 'little' 
chest." 
Anyway, this just goes to show what a lot of trouble a little imagination can get you into. Oh, and how about this one . . . Manute Bol and Mary Lou Retton? ... naaah. 
Carol Broum is a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
whole new meaning, honeymoon? 
How about social justice and civil rights? Imagine the sparks that would fly from the union ofClare Huxtable of"The Cosby Show" with America's all-time, prime-time fascist: Archie Bunker. Clare is the sort of indepen­dent, ERA. woman that Archie would definitely label as "one of those ding-bat liberated womens nuts." Their views would be as different as black and white, particularly in Archie's eyes. 
Domestic tranquility? This would most assuredly be one ofthe few homes in America which staged civil liberties' protests rather than garage sales. Bunker definitely would not be the king ofthis castle. 
And last but oh so far from least would be the humorous teaming up of the mother-son duo of my favorite, Erma Bombeck, with the infamous Mr. T. Can you imagine America's great "Mother Suburbia" trying to mother a man who eats rocks for breakfast? "Oh, T! How many times have I told you, chewing on rocks is bad for your teeth. You don't want to have to visit the mean old dentist again, do you?" 

DR£SSING lOR SfXOESS, 1~86 
R.~Tit INFL~TABLE U~ 
FOR COLD SORE RESISTANCE 
~----PORTABL£ 5WE~HCTIVATED 
BLOOD SPEClWMETER 
~'"--;t----LAMINATED MED~AL HISTORY 
L~tv\IN~TED Df\liNG ~ISTORi
DISPOS~BLE 

GLOVES AIDS/~ERl>ES INSPECTION STICKER WITH t~PIRI\1\0N D~TE WET SUI! FOR MMIMUt/1INGIDENW-CONTACT PROTECTION 
P.O. BoxQ 

Therapeutic encounter 
inferior to confession 
r 
r 
r 
DearEditor: 
r ~ To say that I was disturbed by Ann Pettifer'!; Feb. 12 article, "Sexism of Confessional Tur­
r ning Women Away," would be at best an un­
r derstatement. Her position that, ". . . . the 
r therapeutic encounter is the obvious, con­
r structive alternative to confession (for women)," demonstrates a fundamental lack of understanding ofthe sacrament ofpenance. This sacrament is an opportunity for a man or woman to confess his or her failings to a representative of Christ on Earth, namely a priest. He has been empowered by his ordina­tion to pronounce the sins forgiven in the light of true contrition. The slate is, so to say, wiped clean, and the penitent is admonished to live as Christ called for us to live. Now I ask, what is entailed in this "therapeutic encounter?" A psyc­hiatrist/psychologist discusses your failing with you. Fine. But now I ask, can he or she offer you guidelines by which to live as the Gospels suggest? More radically, do they or their profession accept the concept of"sin" as Christians know it? But most importantly, can he or she absolve you ofthe stain on your soul as can a priest? I offer NO to all of the above. The only pos­sible conclusion for a Catholic: the therapeutic encounter is grossly inferior to the sacrament ofpenance. As to Pettifer's complaint that women have no voice in the control of this sacrament and should therefore abandon it, may I offer a quote from the decrees ofthe Second Vatican Council. 
doesn't even know by calling the girl a bimbo, just to get her point across? We believe an apology is in order. 
Second, you are totally out ofline with your criticism of the acts of the undergrads. Ob­viously, you failed to notice that Undergrad Night ils chaperoned. Thus, you fail to realize that the chaperones approached the three dancing on the table, and did nothing more but ask the the undergrads to replace the disl­ocated panels when they were finished, which they did. If the people who protect the establishment were not concerned, then what makes this vandalism? 
Third, we see it as unfortunate that you seniors felt compelled to return to your "homt: away from home" on Undergrad Night. Are you that out of touch with the senior class? If so, we know of some big high school functions planned for this weekend. 
Finally, you can take your advice and ... ret­hink it. It is not because ofpeople like us that the administration did away with parties. If you knew anything about the alcohol policy, you would realize how ridiculous your state­ment was. Moreover, it is attitudes such as yours whichadd to the "dryness" ofthis com­munity. Need we say more? 
RichardAbood, Steve Conner Dave Bruneel, Kevin Ubelhart jim MacDonald, Rick Carton john Wiechart, Dave Kidder Alumni Hal/ 
Commentaries that appear in The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Observer. 
They (the faithful) are fully incorporated into the society of the Church who, possess­ing the Spirit ofChrist, accept Her entire sys­tem and all the means ofsalvation given to Her, and through union with Her visible structure are joined to Christ, who rules Her through the Supreme Pontiffand the bishops. 
(Lumen Gentium, Art. 14 ). 
A final thought. Those who abandon the Church and Her sacraments for the secular world should be aware that in no way are they maliing an even trade. In fact they lose much, much more than they gain. 
Thomas Rutledge St.]oseph's Hall 
We must not let people to take away our trust 
DearEditor: 
Dateline, 1982 -Seven Illinois residents die from cyanide-laced Tylenol. Dateline, 1986 -New York resident dies from cyanide-laced Tylenol. 
What has this world come to? The Tylenol cases are only a portion of the tampering that has taken place in recent years. Following the 1982 incidents there were reports of eyedrops containing acid, and one that hits close to home for me, Hygrade Ball Park Franks were reported to have broken razor blades and pins inside them. 
The parent companies lost millions of dol­lars and possibly many customers, not be­cause of their negligence, but because someone decided to harm someone else. Johnson & Johnson recalls its Tylenol products for inspection. Hygrade recalls all of its Ball Park Franks in its home base area of Detroit. 

Johnson &Johnson now has to go through a similar procedure again. Hopefully this time it will uncover something that will help to recover its losses, and help to keep loyal cus­tomers. 
Hygrade discovered, after the recall, that all three incidents were created by the victims themselves. Hygrad was now the victim. livonia, Mich., Hygrade's hometown, stood behind Hygrade, and in the course of almost two weeks livonia ate more than 105,000 Ball Park Franks, one for every person in livonia. 
The people ofthe United States should con­tinue to backJohnson &Johnson. I am not tel­ling everyone to go out and buy its products, but I am saying that if you have been a regular Tylenol user, you should continue to use Tylenol when Johnson & Johnson and the FDA are satisfied that the problem no longer exists. 
We cannot allow the sick people of the world to take the companies we have trusted for so long away from us. 
Doug Weglarz Dillon Hal/ 
Seniors should not be fast to condemn others 
DearEditor: 

As underclassmen who attended Undergrad Night at the Alumni-Senior Club onJan. 24, we would like to enlighten the ladies who were so quick to condemn us in their Feb. 7letter to The Observer. 
First, your choice in adjectives for the young lady you saw dancing on the table was far more "asinine" than anything she did. What type of mature college senior has to resort to publicly humiliating someone she 

Quote of the day 
"Advice is like snow; the softer it falls the deeper it sinks into the 
. d"
nun. 
(1772-1834) 
l. 
"ieVVP.~O~i_n_t~-------------------------------------------M_o_n_da~y~,-Fe_b_r_ua_ry~2~4,~1~9-8_6_-p~a~g~e~9 ·-. 
P.O.BoxQ 

Hesburgh's recent talk was rhetorical exercise 
Dear Editor: 
Father Hesburgh's recent speech at Howard Hall was an exercise in rhetoric and, to use his term, a "simplistic" appraisal of the South African problem. 
While Hesburgh did say that the University is an open forum for issues, he made it per­fectly clear that he had read more than most on the issue of apartheid and that divestment is an easy answer espoused by those who have not properly considered the implications of such action. 
Abandoning his "open forum" stance, he likened those who favor divestment to Pon­tius Pilate-a "simplistic" analogy ifever there was one. 
True to past form, Hesburgh spent much of his speech comparing South African apartheid to the situation in America prior to the civil rights movement of the 1960s; still more of the speech was spent addressing the role Hes­burgh himself played in the movement. Hes­burgh deserves a tremendous amount of credit for his part in the civil rights movement in America, and he makes sure he gets every ounce of it. 
The issue to be addressed is South Africa! And while there are similarities between South African and American history, the two are far from identical. Yet each time a member of Wednesday's audience raised a unique feature of the South African situation, such as its wholly racist constitution and government, Hesburgh played Rosa Parks or Martin Luther King as a trump card. 
The time has come for Hesburgh to stop resting on his admittedly well-deserved laurels and resume his role as a civil rights leader, heading the call of South Africa's oppressed majority. 
Hesburgh warned against "simplistic" ideas such as "divest now." Yet his own appraisal of the situation seems quite simplistic. He said that in moments of reflection he had often wondered what he would do if he had God's power to resolve the South African crisis; his answer involved some representational divi­sion of the land between blacks and whites. This hardly represents an informed reaction to the situation in the troubled nation. 
Somehow irr his assessment of the 
problems, Hesburgh neglected to incorporate 
the views of the black leadership; he implies 
that since the whites hold racist views toward 
blacks, black leaders must also harbor racist 
feelings toward whites. No more "simplistic" 
conclusion could possibly be drawn. South 
Africa's black leaders have been ever-mindful 
to keep their movement free from racist 
hatred oftheir oppressors. 
In conclusion, I must say that the cry for divestment is anything but "simplistic." After much thoughtful consideration of the real in­justices practiced by the illegitimate govern­ment of South Africa, there is no question but to divest. The legitimate leaders of the South African majority are calling out to Hesburgh to once again make a strong stand for human rights. Divestment might be a simple act, but it is far from "simplistic." 
Tim Buckley Howard Hall 

Article on counseling did not complete story 
DearEditor: 
After five years of occasional Observer reading, I suppose I shouldn't be surprised at finding yet another error in an Observer story. Yet the misrepresentation of the Counseling and Psychological Services Center in Feb. 1 7 article on counseling services must be cor­rected. 
The article states that the Center "is com­prised of doctoral trainees in psychology." As a graduate student myself, I would never denigrate those graduate students in the Counseling Psychology Program who counsel clients at the CPSC, under the supervision of center staff. The incomplete article, however, implies that the CPSC is staffed solely by these doctoral trainees, and that the service as such is somehow second class. 
According to the information pamphlet published by the CPSC, the center staff in­cludes licensed clinical and counseling psyc­hologists (a total of nine Ph.D.s), a certified social worker and a consulting psychiatrist. I have personally met a number of the CPSC staff and benefitted from their knowledge and sldlls in center-sponsored workshops. They have always acted in a professional and caring manner. 

The Viewpoint Department 

Indeed, the CPSC is one ofthe few organiza­tions on this campus, outside the graduate school, which has recognized the special needs and concerns ofgraduate students. The center staff, both professional and doctoral students, provide an important service to the Notre Dame community. They, at the very least, deserve factual reporting from The Ob­server. 
Deborah DeManno Notre Dame graduate student 
Students who exercise should do so defensively 
DearEditor: 

I always have been impressed with the large 
numbers of the Notre Dame community ex­
ercising on campus. Warm weather will bring 
more out on our narrow roads. I feel it is im­
portant to remind these enthusiasts to RUN 
DEFENSIVELY while enjoying our beautiful 
campus. 

As one who drives and jogs on campus, it is 
obvious the number of vehicles using the 
roads. I am amazed that a Notre Dame student 
has not been seriously injured on campus. We 
recognize that "pedestrians on campus have 
the right of way at all times," but common 
sense should prevail. 

We know there are many safety rules of the 
road that include walkers and cyclists. Below 
are three rules that I am continually reminded 
ofas I drive or jog on campus: 

l. Run defensively, single file facing the traffic. 
2. If you must wear a head set be sure you can hear the traffic behind you. 
3. Wear bright colored clothing at night. 
Brotherjames Reddy · Columba I(all 
War memorial fountain glorifies the act of war 
DearEditor: 

As I was sitting in the Lady Chapel ofSacred 
Heart Church at 5:30 this morning praying for 
peace, a monstrous contradiction came to my 
mind. Starting a peace institute and having 
such activities as a 48-hour vigil for peace go 
directly against the subtle form of indoctrina­
tion the planners of the new war memorial 
are, perhaps unwittingly, putting forth. 
I was leery of the memorial when I heard 
that $500,000 was being spent on a bunch of 
concrete when there are so many in dire need 
of money and financial aid right here at our 
university, but I did not complain. I, too, 
believe that we should remember the in­
dividuals who died fighting for freedom, but 
we should never glorify or honor war. 
The stone that reads "Po patia et pace," for the homeland and for peace, glorifies the war, not the individuals involved. This type of at­titude is dangerous because it does not look for alternatives to war -war is considered the path to peace. 
In this time of nuclear instability and ad­vanced conventional weapons, we must realize that war never can be an alternative, that we must strive for peace, justice and freedom in other more Christ-like ways. 
Now that the money and labor have been spent, the memorial appears here to stay. Per­haps we should begin a perpetual peace vigil around the memorial in order to counteract the attitudes which it implies. I want those who designed the monument to know that their opinion is dangerous. War is not always and may never be a means to peace. 
SarahJanicki lewis Hall 
Facts should be clear on Zahm hockey past 
DearEditor: 
First, let me congratulate Tim Adams on a fine article about the Zahm Rabid Bats hockey team. But second, let me clear up some mis­conceptions present in the article. For ex­ample, the reason the Rabid Bats never won a game in their entire existence prior to the 1983-84 season is that before the 1982-83 season the team was known as the Fightin' Zahmbies. As a member of the Zahm Hall hockey team from 1978-82 I recall that we won about half of our games and that fan sup­port was almost as good then as it is now. During that period the team was coached by a colorful character named Andy Pavelko (ask Father King about him) and our goalie was the same Tim Murphy who painted the familiar murals in the Zahm party room. But in any case it is good to know Zahm still has the same spirit it had years ago. 
Dan Mannix Notre Dame graduate student 
Letters for pro-choice would help opposition 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations on the excellent anti­abortion commentaries. I only wish the pro­choicers were given some print. I feel that doing so would have strengthened the pro-life position even more. 
Brendan Fitzpatrick 
Angers, France 
(Alumni Hall) 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vensity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the pol1cies of the admln1strat1on of either mstibJtion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes. lene~ and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members ol the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through lenera, is encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ...................................Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter c. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager. . ........... David Stephenitch Controller........ ... . ..... William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager. . ...................... Jim Hagan Advertising Manager ...... ............ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager.. . .......... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager..... . ........ John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 
--· 
t 
~ 
l l l 
•l 
l l 
~ 
•
t 
l 
~ 
l 
The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 10 
ND men swimmers take MCC title
Sports Briefs 
By KEVIN HERBERT eight people contributing in the one has to qualify in the morning to Sports Writer relays rather than four." be eligible to score big at night." Particularly outstanding was "For this reason, before each The Notre Dame men's swimming freshman Chuck Neidhoefer who set preliminary, we had a team meeting The ND hockey teatn lost a pair of games at Nor­team avenged its 1985 second place two Notre Dame records, one in the to discuss our goals for that par­finish to Evansville in the Midwest 100-yard breastroke and the other in ticular qualifier," conitued Welsh.
thern Arizona over the weekend. The losses dropped the Irish Collegiate Conference Champion­the 200-yard breastroke. "We were able to outqualify
season record to -19-1. Details of all the weekend action will ap­Other individual winners for the Evansville in the preliminary heats,
pear in tomorrow's Observer. · Tbe Observer ship by winning the 1986 Cham­pionship this past weekend. 
Irish were freshman Eric Bohdan in and this greatly fascilitated our vic­
The event, held Thursday through the 200-yard backstroke and fresh­tory." Saturday at Evansville, Ind., was won man Bill Schmitz in the 500-yard On hand in Evansville was long­by the Irish, as Notre Dame tallied freestyle. time Irish head swimming coach 445 points to Evansville's 394. Dennis Stark.
Jill Suglich, setter for the ND volleyball team, was named Finishing third through seventh Junior Chris Walsh captured the "At the halfway point of the meet, the team's 1986 Most Valuable Player by the National Monogram 
were Oral Roberts, Butler, Loyola 200-yard butterfly for No1tre Dame. with things still up in the air, Dennis Club at the team's award banquet over the weekend. Senior Mary 
(Chicago), Xavier and St. Louis And, in the only event in which the came into the locker room to see the McLaughlin received the student-athlete award for her 3.5 g.p.a. in 
.respectively. Irish took the first two places, senior team," said Welsh. "His presenceArts and Letters Pre-Professional studies. -Tbe Observer 
"This was a total team win," said Blaise Harding won the 4010-yard in· gave the team a real lift." Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh. dividual medley followed by Welsh added that the Irish com­"All of our swimmers and divers teammate Brian Vogel. peted only with the clock. scored points for us." "It took us three days to win the "We said we were not going to 
meet," Welsh said." At the endofthe look at the scoreboard," Welsh said. 
An interhall lacrosse tourney is being 
The great team depth of the Irish first day, we led by five. After two we "If we swam fast, the scoreboard sponsored by NVA. Interested teams must register by Wednesday at 
which Welsh spoke of before the led by sixteen and, finally, at the end would take care of itself. The com­the NVA office in the ACC. Rosters must include between 15-25 
petition was better than I had ex­
meet turned out to be a great asset we won by fifty-one. players and must be submitted with a $25 team entry fee. For more "I told the team that champion­pected. The opposing squads were
for Notre Dame. information call NVA at 239-6100. · Tbe Observer 
"Due to our depth, we were able ship meets are won on the final night faster and much more competitive. This makes our win all the more sig­
to swim eight different people," said and lost in the morning Welsh. "This enabled us to have preliminaries. This is true bacause nificant." 
The ND Rugby Club will begin practice today at 
Dial takes marred Michelob invite 
4:15 p.m. behind Stepan Center. Anyone interested in playing is 
Associated Press in the pole vault over Vassily Bubka, 2:04.39. The time eclipsed the welcome, and no experience is necessary. For more information call 
Sergei's older brother. Both cleared previous record of 2:04.7 run by Phil Sheridan at 288-4761. · Tbe Observer 
SAN DIEGO -Joe Dial soared 19 18-4.5, but Olson had fewer misses. Don Paige in 1982. Earl Jones feet, )-inch to win the Michelob In­Among them, Olson, Dial and Ser­finished second with Billy Konchel­vitational pole vault yesterday in an gei Bubka have raised the indoor lah third. 
indoor competition marred by the standard eight times this indoor Valerie Brisco-Hooks, a triple gold last-minute withdrawal of Sergei season. medal winner in the 1984 Olympics,Wade Boggs, the Boston Red Sox third baseman, lost his Bubka, the Soviet vaulter who holds Olson wasn't able to keep up with captured the women's open 220­bid for a S1.85 million contract in an arbitration hearing yesterday the indoor and outdoor records. Dial on Sunday, missing badly on his yard dash in a time of 2 3.64. 
and will have to take the Red Sox offer of S35 million. Boggs, who Bubka withdrew moments before first two attempts with the bar at 19· Greg Foster swept the 50-yardhit .385 last season, won a n million dollar contract in arbitration the competition was to begin, com­0.]. after Dial made the height, Olson and 60-yard men's open hurdles, es­last year. -AP 
plaining of pain from a shoulder in­had the bar moved to 19·2.] for his tablishing new meet standards in jury. final attempt. each race. Foster ran the 60 in 6.94, After clearing 19-0.] on his second Olson lost his grip on his pole at bettering the previous meet record attempt, Dial had the bar moved to the end of his approach and never of 7.01 he set last year. 
In the NBl\. last night, the Lakers beat the 76ers, 7-111, 
19-6.9, a half-inch higher than the in­got off the ground. He ran the 50 in 5.99. The old in overtimelt was the Clippers over the Knicks, 110-99; the Celtics door best set by Bubka last Friday in Sergei Bubka watched the com­meet record, also set last year bydowning the Pacers, 113-98; and the Kings over the Warriors, 127­
Los Angeles. petition from the sidelines and Foster, was 6.01. 
24.-AP 

Dial, who set a short-lived world apologized to fans who came to see Maricica Puica of Romania took indoor standard of 19-4 three weeks him jump. the women's open mile run in ago, missed on three attempts at the In other events, Johnny Gray 4:31.2, while Mike Hillardt of height. raced to a new world best in the Australia raced to victory in the 
Billy Olson was awarded second 1 ,000-yard run with a time of men's mile run 
lht· iJh."'it'rtt•r '\t1tn ll.tnu· c1ftU.t· (tll.tlt:d t•lllht tlurd tltu•r ttl l.tl••rtlllll "'-llu.knt ( c:ntc:r .u. l c.·pt .. '-l.t,'o!llc:d Jth c:rt '''ll~ In •Ill '> .1 111 lllll d 1 p m \1< nHI.1\ thnHJgh I ndJ\ I he I Jh... t•rn·r .....lint \l.tn 'c•f11l t hIt .Itt d 1111 flit ItHrd nil( •r Ill II.Jgg.u ( tdkgc ( t•!llt·r .Jtlt"ph liJ,,Itinl-. triiJll 1.! ,,, I' Ill lllllll "'r 111 \It Ill 
d.n rl11 'IIJ.!h I nd.n I )c.HHHH t~ 1r 11< \l d.n , J.,,,,,H d' ,, \ p nr \II , !.1''''1< "' lllll,lhl('rcp.lld tllltcrlllj'tf'•'ll••rl•\ 111.11: c lt.lfl!,t I" 111,t11l,ptfll\tt!l.lr.u
Classifieds 
It r' )cr d.n 
NOTICES 

.........................,...................................... 
Typing Avllileble 287-4082 
TYPING 
CALLCHM 2J4.8117. 

EXPDT TYPittQ RJMC£. CALL IIM.COKIJI, 2»7'001. 
ATTN: ITUDENTa Dolor• Francio typing .-vice phone nurrOer cl1ange 2n-s131 

ProiMiionel wo:>rd proceaing.00 typing. Convenient location on N. Ironwood. Call 2n-4220. 
TYPING • Fat, H9J-Qu.ty. Call 287· 9257 
LOST/FOUND l 

WILl. THE PERSON WHO BOAAOWED SUPER CHIEF PLEASE RETURN IT TO 
108 KEENAN OR CAL.l3217. 
FOUND: One lilver pocket ....,., ln­ecrtbed with the wo:wdl "I am a c.thollc. ~~aprieet,"ln Gym 1of the ACC. Call Mary 811387. 
LOST: A GREY CHECKED OVERCOAT WITH A "U2" BUTTON, PAIR OF GREY GlOVES. AND A GREY BUFFALO PLAID SCARF. AT 801 ST.LOUIS ST. FRIDAY, FE8.14. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2209 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND. 
LOST Gold l PN11 Earrfngo 2/15 81 Azt. gelll SMC; Sent. v-.,; R-d; Call 2n­8549. 
LOST: GOLD CLIP ON EARRING ON SOUTH QUAD. SENTIMENTAL VALUE FROM PALESTINE. REWARD! CALl 
233-3669. 
La.T WOIIEN'I GOLD a!IACELET IT HAS 3 GOLD HEARTS ON A BRAIDED GOLD CHAIN. GREAT SENITMENTAL VALUEII! PLEASE CALL 3899. THANKS 
LOST! LOST! LOST! lloet my blue t.ck· pack on lhe bool<racl< In South Dining lUll on Tueeday, Feb. 18. I you found it, I would IIPPfeci8le it being returned. It con­tairw a broken S...yo radio, a a<:alf, an old pair of gloveo, and -eral biology periodic magazlneo ~C8ll me in lhe eveningut x1n6. Thanka a lot. 
I CAN IIIAKE YOU IIICH II you lound my keya. iloet them 811he Rock on Thu..-y at 9:30 Phya. Ed. They are on a blue kay clip and have my dorm,houoe,.,... and ot­her keya on "· The dorm keys are 240. They are very important to me. FIND THEil AND I'LL MAKE IT WORTH 
YOUR WHILE $$$$$$$$ Cllll Den at 3304! Pleae! 
FOUND, ZIPPO LIGHTER AT ST. 
MARY'S ON SIDEWALK NEXT TO MAO­LEVA PARKING LOT. CAI..l284-4656. 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR THURSDAY THE 20TH A TAN LONDON FOG WINTER COAT SIZE 42 LONG. CAll TERRY AT 1650 IF FOUND. 
FOR RENT 

Semi-furnilhed houoe good ne9Jbor· hood alter4-255-3684/2n-3804. 
2-txrm. apt. Call272-4613. 
................................................................ 
FOR SALE 

YAMAHA 650 EXCEU.ENT CON0.$1200.CALL JAY 232..()554 
Small black & wMe TV with radio. Call 1265. 
TICKETS 

NEED 4 DAYTON GA'S. CALL BILL AT 1n5 
NEED A DAYTON GA TICKET WILl. PAY WELl. CALl X2035 
My parenll and little brother coold '*'e lea about NO baoketball. but they would kiUto-the DANCING IRISH! 10181 me 3 GAa lot the Dayton game. Wil pay welt. cal Tom 1820. 
NEED ONE DAYTON TIX TERRY2113 
I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA'S. CALl. 283-2123 
I need 2 Dayton GA's, Marty 1050 
I need 2 DePaul tix, Stud ot GA.~ Mike 3452 
DAYTON DAYTON DAYTON! I NEED DAYTON TIXI GA'S OR STUDENT! I NEED A LOT! JOHN x1502 
Need 4 Dayton tix (otudent ot GA). PI-call Mary Ellen at 3855 ot 239­5303. Big$1 
I need 1,2,3 ot4 DAYTONtix Dan3475 
PERSONALS 
'"&;;;;;;~~·;;;~:;;·;;;,;;.~;:·;;;;;·;;;;·i;;~~ 
the fun of exchanging worlds, giving our lovu and excifements ro each other. 
• RiChllrd Bach, Thallrlclga Acroaa Forever 
Decilion Ia the key to deotiny. 
"God, can you be merciful and sendme 
oil to hell and lock me in lotever?" 
"No, Pilgrim, I wiU not oend you there, 
but if you choae to go there, I could never 
lock you out." 
·Calvin Miller, The Singer 
...... 

Wotdl alone cannot begin to thank you en<JU1t1 lot the belated Valentine's Day celebration you have given me ... th81's probebly jUit U wei, U I am at a loet. Thank you with al my love. 
T.B. 
OAR HOUlE: COLD BEER I UOUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.l. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
YOUNG TRAVEU.ERI NEWILETTERI lndudee:800 no.; travel partner aervice;featureo on exotic DVERIEAI budget travel, work, study! Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, N­Haven, CT. 06525 
FREE COUPONIIn tha yellow pagaa of tha Campua Telephone Directory. u.. themtoclayl 
Miranda, Sorry. Ale you ready lot Thuraday? Ferdinand 
Students In need of gynecok9cal services can be seen by the Univeroity physicians ot by a gynecological specialist. Gynecologist by appointment only 239-7497, Wed. morningo ($20 mini­mum faa). No faa to -Univlll'lity physicians. 
NO Club of Milwaukee inviteo you to ND va MARQUETTE BASKETIIAL.l PARTY Saturday, March 1 at Turners Halt, 1034 
N. 4th. acroaa from Milwaukee Alena. Game on Big Screen TV. If you have 
game tix, join us alt-ardl lot huge buf­fet with the team. Student tickell $10; in­dudee bever~~ges. Doora open at noon. 
THEIOPHOMORECDTIUUON A FORMAL EVENING OF DINING & DANCING FRIDAY MARCH 7TH 
SOPHOMORE 
COTIWON 
COTIU.ION 
COTIUUON 
STOP USING SEX AS A WEAPON 
Need rooms fot graduation? EnjOy Bed 'N Brealdaatinlovelyhomes. 219-291-7153. 
HEY M.A.P.S.-Hope you have a super Birthday! Sorry about the ears. I just had to do it. Thinking of you, eapecidyonyour 21st. Love, M.A. 
Hoop Hyateria ohirts stiliavaileble!!! All sizes. Stop by Room 221 Stanfotd ot call 2078/2089 
NO students • due to your support of Hoop 
Hyatl!lia 
$1550 hubeen donated to Logan Center 
and lhe wheela, at this very moment, are 
turning to buy 11 young lady a badly-
needed 
new wheelchair. Thanka. 
Hungry? Call YEU.OW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE Delivery houra: 5pm-12am Monday· Thuraday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
To the gorgeous guy who never snores: Wil you go to my lotmal on Mar. 1? Love Krik 
YENTL,GEEK(YES YOU JOHN WAU.ACE), & WHITNEY, PLEASE DON'T DRINK ALL THE BOOZE IN SOUTH BEND BEFORE I'M LEGAL. HAPPY 21ST TO All OF YOUI LOVE, WILMA 
Judy Klein Grace Fruit of the l.ooma. Blue Shoes, Sr. Jo Quad. Haunted Shopping Certl, "3 Out Of 4 Ain't Bad," Bedtime Stories. Hours with Prince', Granola and Yogurt, Rum Without Coke. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY JUDY 
We Love You. 
Your Fotmer Quad-mateo, 
J.R., C.W., K.M. 
HEY I K.M. 'II do a lot of things, but I won't do windows I Thank you fot the great time! FLATTOP 
OIU.ON VS DIU.ON Final Score We Score Between Periods 5, Hot Packages on Ice' 4 lntrahall Hockey's No.1 team thanka, our fans. he game of gaa haa been decided!!! 
CONGRATULATIONS Dillon H.'s No. 
wuoa hockey team We eote Between 
erioda ood job: DE. Coach, no In­
surance, 0 Grinch, Swaykus, Nolan, 
Bobby Orr Boler. Smoton, oug Willon 
Bunw, and Yea. You too WILD BlU.. The 
rJirla 
Thank you. St. Jude 
ALRIGHT, THAT DOES IT! The TICKETSTUB hereby challenges THE CELLAR: Let's 188 who haa the moet unaolicited dates by Friday. STUDENTS OF ND/SIIC UNITE and uk out the employee of your choice to oelt!e this once and tor all. 
WHY IS A MAN HATED FOR LOVING A MAN AND YET PRAISED FOR KIU.ING AMAN? 
Doctor Death Saya:Richard Bach is A Ninny 
But llach Ia happy 
HAPPY BIRHTDAY PAT MCMANUS LOVE, A SMC SWIMMER 
Wanted: A "patient" person to give guitar lesaona. 1 hr. a week. WiN pay! Call 272· 1859 
JPW Quiz Ana_. 
1. 
Yeo, but Dad 1881'Tled to have some trouble. 

2. 
Wf!IA, thoae thinly diaguiled N­England accents atarted to come through alter awhile. 

3. 
He had to. Eopecialty since his wile is related to one ol them. 

4. 
I certainly hope 10. 


Thanka lot coming MomandDad Love, Phil 
Fot thoae who -•wondering: 
In hil JPW addr881, Father Heoburgh 
dropped 17 nameo and mentioned 16 ex­
otic places he hu visited. Hio speech 
luted 32 minuteo and 46 seconds. Con­
gratulations to Dan lot winning the center­
piece. 
The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 11 

Bird, Celts roll to win over Indiana 
Notre Dame's Trena Keys drives for two In a home game against North Star Conference rival Loyola (Chi.) earlier this season. Keys was a one-woman wrecking crew in Chicago this weekend, as she led the Irish to a 79-67 victory over Loyola on Friday and a 73-58 win over DePaul yesterday. Marty Strassen has all the details of the road trip, begin­ning on page 16. 
As8ociated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. · Larry Bird scored 30 points, collected 12 as­sists and grabbed 1 I rehounds to spark Boston past Indiana I I 3·98 in the National Baskethall Association last nigh!. 
The Celtics, who have won 22 of their last 26, broke from a 78-78 tie after three periods by outscoring the Pacers 3'>·20 in the fourth quarter on 17-for-2') shooting. Bird scored eight points during a 14-4 run mid· way in the quarter to expand Bos­ton's 90-86 edge with 7: I I remaining. 
Robert Parish added 27 points and Scott Wedman added 19 for the Cel­tics. Dennis johnson added 12 in­cluding a three-point shot at the buzzer to draw Boston even after three quarters, 78· 78. 
Herb Williams led the Pacers with 24 points. Steve Stipanovich and Bryan Warrick added 16 points each for the Pacers, 19· 3 7, who have dropped three in a row and are 6-6 in their last 12 games. 
Bostn led <;5-53 at halftime despite Indiana shooting 56.7 per-
Candids from Tri-Mil Ball on display at ROTC Building until Tuesday, Feb. 25 

14"LARGE THIN CRUST PIZZA any topping with extra cheese 
PLUS 

Garlic Bread with che.ese 
Delivery Orders Only 
(plus delivery and tax)
$6.99 • 

• 
52929 u.s.311'torth 

---. ..--.. ---· 
Good/orSundays and Mondays only wltla coupon 
cent from the field. Parish led the Celtics with 15, followed by Bird with 12 and Wedman with 11. 
The Pacers had a balanced attack sparked by Warrick who had a dozen points. Williams added 10 points. In­diana also played all but 3:39 of the first half without high-scoring rookie Wayman Tisdale who picked up three quick fouls. 
The Pacers and Celtics were tied at.25-25 after one quarter. Bird had nine for Boston while Williams and Ron Anderson had six points each for Indiana. 

Lendl captures Lipton title with victory over Wilander 
Associated Press 
BOCA RATON, Fla. ·Top-seeded Ivan Lend! won the pivotal rain­delayed tiebreaker and then cruised to a 3-6, 6-1, 7-6, 6-4 victory over second-seeded Mat Wilander of Sweden Sunday night to capture the men's singles title in the Lipton In­ternational Players Championships tennis tournament. 
The third-set tiebreaker took nearly 3 1/2 hours to complete, being interrupted by a 3-hour, 1 5· minute rain delay. The score was 2-2 when the rain began at 4:15 p.m. EST. 
Keys 
continuedfrom page 16 
percentage from 44.4 percent to 
57.4 percent in the final 20 minutes and pulled away. 
Although the Demons boasted only a 5·5 record coming into the game, the victory was a big one for Notre Dame. 
"DePaul is our big rivalry in everything from marbles to basket­ball," said DiStanislao. 
The Irish held 5·5 guard Sally An· derson to only 1 2 points in the game, while Keys proved once again why she is one of the premier players in NCAA women's basket­ball. 
"She's a senior and a leader," said DiStanislao. "This was a big, big game for us and she knew what she had to do. We needed her ex­perience. She got rebounds when we needed them and points when we needed them. She did her job once again." 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments NOW RENTING FORFAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dealsfor Summer Session) 
Ofnce at 820 NO Ave 234-6647/256-5716 Call Anytime 
-1986 


fllarclJ '1 ht. 
fllarclJ 2 &tan. 
fllarclJ 3 Slnn. 
fllarclJ 4 OJur.s. fllarclJ S Brb.s. 'Biarc1}6 OJl}ur.s. !SiardJ7 .Jirt. 

Allrn <itnsbrrg 
N. &cntt Slnmabau Alanl1ugan Mlaru <OUurr ltnnalb hkrntdlllrnrr &rgal Qtlagtnn £el}lrman ltnbrrt Qtnrmtrr 
..,p/~uU/1 ~aLik ~~ 
aLa:oooflk~ ~~~ 

fJflw.iU~al [J?..A/'(1 ()'~~ 
When the players returned to the court at 7:30, they traded points to 5·5, when Wilander made two great saves of powerful Lend! forehands, .only to hit a backhand long. After using power to get ahead, Lend! then won the tiebreaker with a touch 
drop volley. 
In the women's final Saturday, 
top-seeded Chris Evert Uoyd beat 
second-seeded Steffi Graf of West 
Germany 6-4,6-2. 
"I was struggling all day long," 
Lend! said. "I couldn't get the 
crunch on my serve. But I played 
much better once we got back out." 
Keys, who was held to just two points in Notre Dame's 55·53 vic­tory over DePaul earlier in the year, was more concerned with the vic­tory than with redeeming herself. 
"The fact that they shut me down la'>t time was in the back of my mind," she said. "But you can't take a basketball game as a per1;onal thing. The main thing I wanted to do was make sure we beat them. Whether I scored two points or 25 points doesn't matter, as long as we beat them." 
Botham added 2 3 for the Irish in addition to 14 rebounds, countering the physical inside play of DePaul. DiStanislao was glad to see the 6-2 sophomore play the kind she has played all year for her squad. 
"Sandy Botham came alive," she said. "She did today what we knew she could do when we recruited her. She played a great game in a big game." 
Botham was not surprised with the physical play of the Demons. 
"It was very physical, especially in the second half," she explained. "When they were losing, they figured their only way to get back into the game was by pushing us around. They were frustrated. 
"For myself, it was just a matter of being on. It was a good night." 
yesterdlly'e Rnultl Notre O.me 73, DePaul 58 Notre O.m• (73) 
M FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Keys  33 11·18  3-5  7  1  25  
Willis  32  2·8  0·2  6  1  4  
Botham  36 11·13  1·2  14  5  23  
Gavin  35  2-5  2·3  4  4  6  
Toney  30  1-4  3-5  2  0  5  
Ebben  22  2·2  2·3  2  3  6  
Bunek  12  2-4  o-o  2  3  4  
200 31-54 11-20 37  17  73  
FG  Pet.  .574.  FT Pet.  • .550.  Team  

rebounds • 1. Turnovers • 20. Assists • 20 (Gavin 9). Technicals ·Notre Dame bench. 
DePeul(58) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P Joiner 36 8-11 5·8 8 5 21 Vines 29 3-12 2·2 3 5 8 Manuel 40 7-9 1-1 5 4 15 Anderson 40 4-13 4-6 1 2 12 Morgan 14 o-o o-o 1 3 o Ollie 7 0·0 2·2 1 1 2 Watts 3 0·0 0-0000 Hogan 27 0-4 0-0050 Fitzpatrick 2 0-0 0-0000 200 22-49 14-19 19 25 58 
FG Pet. .449. FT Pet. • .737. Team rebounds -1. Turnovers • 17. Assists -18 (Anderson, Hogan 5). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime· DePaul267, Notre Dame 26. Of· ficials-Lisa Miller, Joe Bentz (both NSC). A­459. 
Frlday'l RNultl Notre O.me 711, Loy«M 67 Notre O.m• (711) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Keys 36 13·21 ,4-5 5 2 30 Willis 25 1·2 3-4 2 4 5 Botham 24 3-4 4-4 2 4 10 Gavin 36 3-7 5-8 3 2 11 Toney 35 4·9 3·6 14 1 11 Ebben 14 o-1 o-o 1 1 o Bunek 20 s-7 o-o 4 4 10 Barron 4 1-1 0-0 0 0 2 Brommeland 40·00·0120 200 3G-52 111-27 32 20 79 
FG Pet. • .577. FT Pet. • .704. Team rebounds -5. Turnovers • 12. Assists • 20 (Gavin 10). Technicals ·none. 
Loy!M(67) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Huszti 24 1-6 o-o 5 5 2 McNerny 40 7-11 2-4 5 5 16 Busiel 33 1-7 5·6 8 5 7 Carr 34 7-16 3·5 0 2 17 Leyden 40 4-10 3-4 3 2 11 Just 17 3-7 0·0 1 1 6 Zalig 72·4Q-0124 RidI 1 o-o o-o o o o Nelson 5 1·1 2·2 2 0 4 200 26-62 15-21 25 22 67 
FG Pet. -.419. FT Pet. · .714. Team rebounds· 5. Turnovers· 9. Assists· 16 (Carr 10). Technicals-none. 
Halftime -Notre Dame 33, Loyola 29. Offl· cials ·Chip Sobek, Kevin Joyce (both NSC). A -450. 
-··-·~-~-------------------------------------­
The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 12 

College roundup 

N.C. State upsets N. Carolina 
Associated Press Purdue 85, Indiana 68 Thomas layup with 12:39 left in the game. 
RALEIGH, N.C. -Chris Washburn WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.. -Todd The score by Thomas, who had scored 26 points as 20th-ranked Mitchell scored 10 of his game-high only five of his team-high 23 points North CarolinaState sent top-ranked 24 points in the first 10 minutes, in the first half, ignited an Indiana North Carolina to its second straight sparking the Purdue Boilermakers comeback. Thomas had 13 of his loss with a 76-65 Atlantic Coast Con­over No. 15 Indiana 85-68 yesterday team's next 16 points and a pair of ference basketball victory yester­and knocking the Hoosiers from sole Alford free throws pulled the 
day. possession of first place in the Big Hoosiers to within eight, 68-60, with 
The Tar Heels, upset last Thursday Ten Conference. 6:47togo. by Maryland, dropped to 25-3, in­The Boilermakers, who moved to Purdue responded by scoring the cluding 9-3 in the ACC. N.C. state, within a half-game of Indiana and next six points on a McCants layup which had lost its last three games, Michigan in the battle for the con­and two free throws each by 
climbed to 18-9 and 7-6. ference basketball title, took the Mitchell and Herb Robinson. In­
While the Wolfpack and the Tar lead for good on two free throws by diana came no closer than 11 points Heels are equal along the front line, Mitchell with 18:15 left in the first again. it was the 6-foot-10 tandem ofWash­half. Alford, averaging 23 points per burn and Charles Shackleford that Mitchell's early spurt and three game, was held to just eight. forced 6-11 Brad Daugherty and 6-consecutive scores by guard Mack Purdue's fifth consecutive vic­Joe Wolf to alter and miss their Gadis, who had two baskets after tory, which ended a five-game In­inside shots in the early stages. That making steals, produced a 30-15 diana winning streak, lifted the allowed the Wolfpack to pull away Purdue lead with 1 0: 19 left in the Boilermakers to 10-5 in the con­to a 23-13 edge on two Washburn first half. ference and 21-7 overall. free throws at the 9:21 mark of the Purdue found holes in Indiana's Indiana, which had won 1 0 of its first half. man-to-man defense consii>tently in last 11 outings, dropped to 10-4 in 
A Washburn follow shot at the the opening half and also were near­the conference and 18-6 for the buzzer gave N.C. State a 38-27 perfect from outside in taldng a 38-season. halftime lead. The Tar Heels shot 30 19 advantage on a 15-ftooter by percent from the field in the first Everett Stephens with 5:27left. 
Syracuse 64, G-town 63
half, their worst half this season. A Doug Lee 20-footer gave Purdue 
Asix-point spurt by the Wolfpack, its biggest lead at 41-19 with 3:49 capped by a Bennie Bolton jumper, remaining in the first half. The SYRACUSE, N.Y. -Dwayne Was­gave the Wolfpack its biggest lead at Boilermakers were 19 of2~~ from the hington hit the first of two free 48-31 with 15:05 left to play. field at that point. throws with 25 seconds to play, get­
North Carolina staged an 18-8 Indiana trailed 46-29 at halftime ting a game-high 24 points on the comeback that cut the deficit to 56-as Purdue hit on 20 of 27 from the shot, as No. 9 Syracuse withstood a 49 on Curtis Hunter's steal and layup field. wild rally to defeat Georgetown 64­with 7:42 remaining. Wolfscored on The Hoosiers found Purdue just as 63 in Big East Conference basket­a goaltending call at the 2:49 mark tough on the other end ofthe court. ball. and the Tar Heels sliced the deficit With leading scorer Steve Alford ef­to 62-57, but that was as close as fectively denied the ball much ofthe The 13th-ranked Hoyas trailed by they could get. time by Stephens and his mates, the up to 18 points in the first half but 
The Wolfpack finished its scoring Hoosiers were only 14 of 32 from shot themselves back into conten­from the free throw line, where it hit the field at the break. tion in the last five minutes. 
N.C State's Cbrls Washburn dunks over Louisville's Herbert 
10 of 12 in the last 2:13. Melvin McCants scored the first · Syracuse, which lost to Geor­
Crooks in a game earlier this month. Washburn scored 26points 
Bolton added a career-high 18 three points of the second half, getown 73-70 last month, solidified 
yesterday to lead the wolfpack to a 76-65 upset of top-ranked 
points. giving Purdue a 49-29 lead. The its hold on the Big East lead with a 
North Carolina. Detail ofthat and other college basketball games 
Daugherty led North Carolina Hoosiers cut the deficit to 11, get­13-1 record. The Orangemen are 22­
from yesterday appear at right. 
with 23 points. ting a goaltending call on a Daryl 3 on the season. 

With Estee Lauder Sun you can actually sun less. And tan more! 
You can come back from spring break looking like you'd been away for a month of sun-days! Say 
what?! Because many of the formulas in the Estee 
Lauder Sun system contain Biotan, an exclusive complex that works to speed up your skin's own natural production of melanin (the component in skin that interacts with the sun to make you tan), your .tanning potential is super maximized. 
The tested results: just 5 days of sunning with 
Biotan will give a much deeper tan than 14 days 
of sunning without! 
Start with the Golden Sun Pre-Tan Accelerator with Biotan before exposure to help promote a faster, deeper tan, 5 oz. 12.50. Use one of the 7 different formulas which are available for sunning. And the apres tan maintainers afterward. (There's also a Self­Action Tanning Creme to tan you without the sun or use to even out, deepen and maintain a true tan.) And that's it! The way to have a beautiful deep tan in less time than you ever thought possible! Estee Lauder counter in Cosmetics (0.123) at Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 
Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park daily 10 to 9; Sunday 12 to 5:30. 
The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 13 
Men's, women's fencing teams go unbeaten over weekend 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing teams head into the Great Lakes Tourna­ment this coming weekend with perfect ledgers and an NCAA tide on the line. This past weekend, the men's and women's squads travelled to Ohio to take on Wayne State and then to East Lansing, Mich., to meet Michigan, Oakland, Illinois and Mic­higan State. The Irish came out on top in all cases to continue the men's ~3-meet winning streak and the women's 23-meet winning streak. 
Once again, the 23-0 men's team found their strength in the foil squad. Against Wayne State the team went 9-0 with senior Mike Vander­Velden, junior Charles Higgs­Coulthard and sophomore Yehuda Kovacs all going 3-0 against their op­ponents. 
"This foil squad is the best we've ever had here," commented Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "They are really unbelievable. It's a good feeling to have them lead the team as we head into the Great Lakes and the NCAA tournament." 
The women took a 1 0-6 victory from Wayne State as well, with sop-
Observ~! advertising. Call 239·5303 fqr details. 
EVERY FRAIVIE. 
Right now, when you buy prescription lenses* at NuVision, 
you'll get up to 600/o off on every eyeglass frame in our entire 
collection-no exceptions. 
Plus we'll include a choice of glass or plastic lenses, 
oversize lenses, or extra strong prescriptions at no additional 
cost. Now you can buy the glasses you want with all these 
extras at our lowest prices. 
And you can save on contacts. Starting at: 
Clear Tinted
539 579 
Daily-wear Daily-wear 
Clear Extended-wear SDFTMATEEW. 

564 
Eye examinat1on extra. Available by Independent licensed optometrists. 
"Offer good at pert!Ctpetlng offfCe• on~')~ Some reetnctlone epp~ 

Copyright 1986. NuVision. Inc. 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 
University Park Mall 277·8682 
McKinley Town &Country 256·1864 
Elkhart Mall-Elkhart 295·2496 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012 
1012 Main St.-Niles 684·8008 
homore Molly Sullivan going 4-0 to "We are really loaded for boar ( 28-9) to compete in the sabre. And 

raise her season record to 43-3. right now," said DeCicco. "The win in th epee division, DeCicco will Junior Cynthia Weeks was also a key against Wayne State certainly added send seniors Christian Scherpe ( 34­for the Irish. Weeks currentlyowns a to the intensity, and we have to keep 7) and Mike Gostigian ( 17-7) and 56-1 1 ledger which is a new record that level high as we head into juniorJohn Haugh ( 27-11 ). for the most victories recorded in a tournament tilT!e." The women's delegation includes 
single season. Sullivan and Weeks. In addition, 
On Saturday in East Lansing, the The Irish will be looking to defend women's coach Yves Auriol will team once agained flexed their their title in the Great Lakes Tourna­send junior Vittoria Quaroni ( 32­muscles by defeating all their chal­ment as they send 11 fencers to 14) and freshman Janice Hynes ( 39­lengers. The men scored victories compete in Appleton, Wis. In the 9). against Michigan (27-0), Oakland men's foil division the team will be ( 24-3 ), Illinois ( 20-7) and Michigan represented by Kovacs ( 40-4), The NCAA tournament begins on State (23-4). The women also hand­Higgs-Coulthard (32-5) and Vander­
March 25-29. Last season the men's ily defeated Michigan (14-2), Oak­
Velden (36-6). DeCicco will send team lost by one touch in the final land ( 14-2) and Michigan State seniors Tony Consoli ( 40-8), John bout to Wayne State while the ( 16-0). They did not fence Illinois. Edwards (28-4) and Don Johnson women finished ninth. 
Belles' basketball team loses pair as 1985-86 season comes to a close 
down six, and Kris Pantelleri:.< points from the field and 19 points Sports Writer !ended a hand with five assists. from the line for a season total of The Belles travelled to Purdue­31 7. Kreber also led (he team in 
The Saint Mary's basketball team Calumet the following evening for steals, with 37, and closed its season with two losses last their final game of the season, but rebounds,grabbing 130. Radke was week, but in retrospect, the Belles' they were handed a 60-73 loss. the Belles' assists leader with 86. season was a good one. Tammye Radke led the team with 8 With the season at an end, Saint 
points in a losing cause. Pantelleria Mary's players expressed some Last wednesday the Belles played aided the team with five assists, and remorse. host to Aquinas and suffered a 52-76 Jennifer Harte, Radke, and Kreber "I'm sad to see the season end," loss. Senior Beth Kreber led the each pulled down seen rebounds. commented Kreher, "but I'm happy team in scoring with 14 points in the 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 

with the way it went." last home game ofher career. Rachel For the season, Kreber was the the "The season went well and we had a Bir led the team in rebounds, pullin~ team's leading scoring with 298 lot offun." Radke echoed Kreber's comments 
good season;" said Radke. "It was better than last year's, 
ST.GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY 
it .-nd." 
....................................,
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
~ 
j 

<;RENAilA. WEST INDIES
~~:·}-~-/ 

RQc.co's Hair 
St Georges Umvers1ty School of Med1ctne. w1th more than 975 graduates l1censed m 33 states. offers a ngorous, n~ne-semester program leadtng to the degree of Doctor of Med1cme. In January 1965, The Journal of the American Medical Association published a report which ranked St. George's number one of all ma1or fore1gn med1cal schools 1n the 1n1t1al pass 
Styling 
rate on the ECFMG Exam. 70 medical schools 1n the Un1ted States have accepted over 630 St. George's students w1th advanced stand1ng. . St. George's has received probationary approval to conduct clin1cal clerkshlps 1n New Jersey sub1ect to regulat1ons of the State Board of Examiners. A Loan Program for Entenng Students has been instituted for a l1m1ted number of qualified applicants. 
For information. please contact the Office of AdmiSSions: 
St. George's University School of Medicine 

1 531 N. Michigan Sr.'. 
I
"·, The Foreign Medical School Services Corporation One East Main Street, Bay Shore. N.Y. 11706, Dept. C-1 (516) 665-8500 
l. Phone 133-4957 .J 
............................................--·­
Our design engineering department currenlly Includes 150 engineering professionals, both new and experienc­ed, and II conttnues to grow. At Tellabs, talented engi­neers can find challeng1ng opportunities to work with state-of-the-art technology In a vigorous organization that rewards creativity ancf Innovation. 
Unlike most hl$Jh-tech companies, Tellabs offers a small­team work envfronment that encourages professional dev­elopment. Our engineers aren't confined to working on a 
Digital System Design 
• 
Digital signal processing 

• 
Microprocessor logic 

• 
High·speed digital logic

• 
Logic simulation 


Software Development 
• 
Real-time software 

• 
Packet-switching 

• 
System fault recovery 

• 
Data communication protocol 


Mechanical and Industrial Design 
•Industrial 
design and ergonomics 

• 
Electronic equipment packaging 



small place of a project --they are involved In a team effort through all phases of product development. 
If leadership Is your Interest, Tellabs can offer you both project and group management opportunities. We're a flexible company that recognizes commitment and offers a diversity ofprofessional development opportunities. 
Current engineering opportunities at Tellabs are listed below. 
Integrated Circuit Design 
• 
Cuatom devlc" 

• 
Semi·cuatom devlcea 

• 
Analog and digital devlc" 

• 
Very L:arge Scillelntegration 


Analog Circuit Design 
• 
Voice-frequency circuit development 

• 
Active filters lo Switch capacitor filters 

• 
Adaptive systems 

• 
Comput.,.slded engineering 

• 
Stress and deflection analysis 


We will be interviewing on ll81Tl~s on Tuesdi!Y, Febru! ~5th,
at the Plaoernent cenlec. If un1 lie to visit wttrl ..LJS t t bme,
le se nd yo r nfidenb resu e to: p, u a elke
~.,Taba,,nc., 4~51 'fndiallll Av••, ~.,.. IL. &85 -~qual Oprrortunily Employer MIF. 
-a'tellabs 
The Observer Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 14 

Miami's coach Foster sees hope despite successive blow-out losses 
By LARRY BURKE be a revenue-producing venture. He were when our seniors -Barlow, Assistant Sports Editor had plenty ofevidence, starting with Kempton, Dolan and Price -were the $500,000 which had already freshman. 
MIAMI -Bill Foster was trying been raised in suppport of bringing "Bill is doing a great job. He hard to see the silver lining in Satur­basketball back to Miami. deserves a lot of credit. His players day night's cloud. But as has often Foster was named head coach on work hard and they'll do well by the been the case this season for the March, 21, 1984. Three weeks later time they're juniors and seniors." Miami head coach, it wasn't easy. he had his first player -6-1 0, 240-Foster agreed that it might not be 
"I never dreamed we'd go to our pound Tim Harvey, a transfer from all that long before Miami starts 25th game before going below Georgia Tech. When Foster com­opening some eyes on the basketball .500," Foster said after watching pleted his roster a year later, it was court. Notre Dame drop his Hurricanes to made up of nine freshmen, one sop­"Give us a little time," said the 12-13, with a 126-73 romp. "We lost homore, and one junior, ~Llong with Hurricane coach, who will add our third game in a row for the first four non-scholarship walk-ons. seven-footer Tito Horford to his time this year but I think if you look On ept. 2, 1985, six weo:ks before lineup next season. "I can see us im­at the total picture for this team, the first day of practice, construc­proving, particularly those first six there's a little something to be tion of the Knight orts Complex, guys, I can really see them starting to happy about each game. It's tough iami's new practice facility, was have a feel for each other and doing after a game like this, though. completed. little things that make you feel good Tonight we just didn't do anything On Nov. 22 Foster's squad won its about what they're learning. very well." season opener, 85-77, over "lbe "In the Duke game (a 104-82 
Whippings such as the one the Citadel. An 82-72 win ovc:r Georgia loss), in stretches and in certain Irish administered Saturday are State and a big 81-78 upset of Geor­possessions, we did things better something that the new kid on the gia followed. execution-wise against good block has got to expect -at least From that point on, however, it's pressure than we've done all year. once in a while. But that doesn't been an up-and-down season. The And our guys are aware of that, too, make defeat any easier. Hurricanes haven't won three in a which is good. I mean, there are 
"I just told my players to wash it row since then, and up until Satur­some people we played early that if out and try to forget it," said Foster. day they had never lost three in a we went back and played them now "I know they don't like to get beat row. and did things the way we did at like this, especially with a lot of Youth and inexperien<:e are the Duke, we'd pound them. people watching on national televi­priamary reasons for the inconsis­"If we keep on working with the sion (ESPN)." tency. The Hurricanes start the weights and add a few guys, next 
Miami is back in the basketball youngest lineup in the country, with year should be a little different. And business for the first time since the five freshmen. First-year players the third year should be a lot dif­1970-71 season. have gotten better than 84 percent ferent." 
The Hurricanes were 7-19 that of the playing time this season. But at a school which has won two year, winding up the season with a "Miami has got good young national championships in baseball 94-75 loss to nationally-ranked Jack­players. It's just a matter of ex­and one in football in the past four sonville in Miami's Dinner Key perience," said Irish head coach Dig­years, it's going to take a big dif­Auditorium. The day before that ger Phelps. "It's similar to how we ference to attract some attention. 
Tbe~/lllephoto 

Miami coach Bill Foster, shown here accepting the job in March, 1984, is trying to restore a once-proud basketball tradition to the University of Miami. Larry Burke details the rebuilding of the program in his story at right. 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
we needed to, and we also had some 
ouside shooting strength." 
Miami coach Bill Foster agreed 
that his team had been pretty much 
outplayed. 
"Dennis Burns (23 points) played well early but overall we were physi­cally whipped," said Foster. "We considered playing man-to-man defense, and we tried matching it up at times. But we had to go to zone to keep the big guys in. We went back to man for the last two-and-a-half minutes, but we can't guard this team that way-we'd foul out a lot of guys inside. 
"The refs seemed to be letting a lot go, and I think our kids were a little gun-shy. That type of game suits their style of play a lot better than it does ours. We don't have any real physical players, whereas most of their players are physical." 
Miami was without the services of 6-7, 210-pound forward Tim Daw­son, who was lost for the seasonwith a thumb injury suffered in late January. That left 6-10, 245-pound juniorTim Harvey as the only beefin the Hurricane lineup. Because Har­vey has been fouling out during the national anthem lately, Foster figured all along that it was going to be a long night for Miami. Harvey fouled out with 10:53 left in the game, after playing just 17 minutes. 
It doesn't get any easier for the Hurricanes, who have a visit to bruising Marquette on March 5 to look forward to. 
"I watched Marquette and Notre Dame play, and it was like watching the Packers and the Bears -they're the same kind ofphysical team," said 

The Proof 
is In 
the Taste! 


Open Mon-Sat 11 •• San4p• 
Pizza--&ndwlche~~-Salads 
Beer& Wine 
277-2020 
Loc:ated In Boaeland (Next to Rand.U.) 
Foster. "Ifwe all get back from Mil­waukee alive, it'll be a miracle." 
IRISH ITEMS -Donald Royal wore protective goggles Saturday night because ofa scratched eye suf­fered in practice Friday. There were 13 dunks in the game. Notre Dame had nine of them. Tito Horford, Miami's 
7-1 signee was in attendance and seated on the Hurricane bench. 
Saturday's Results Miami 73, Notte Dame 126 Notte Dame (126) 
M FG-A FT-A R F 
p 
Barlow 27 12-17 Royal 20 6-7 Kempton 19 2-2 Rivers 25 8-13 Stevenson 14 4-6 Price 18 3-7 Dolan 11 2-3 Hicks 14 5-7 Connor 16 5-8 Voce 14 3-4 Beeuwsaen 9 2-5 Peters 7 1-4 Smith 6 1-2 
4-4  8  2  28  
5-6  7  1  17  
0-0  8  2  4  
3-4  1  2  19  
1-3  3  0  9  
1-2  4  3  7  
0-0  0  4  4  
0-0  4  2  10  
2-2  4  4  12  
2-5  6  4  8  
0-0  7  2  4  
0-2  0  2  2  
0-0  0  0  2  

200 54-85 18-28 52 28U6 FG Pet...643. Ff Pet.-.643. Team rebounds· 
3. Turnovers · 6. Assists-29 (Rivers 9 ). Techni-
cals-None. Mlami(73) M FG-A FT-A R F 
p 
Brown 35 3-11 Burns 39 10-20 Richardson 27 4-13 Hughes 32 2-5 Presto 31 2-5 Harvey 17 4-7 Warren 9 1-3 Schnecken· berg 5 1-3 Roberson 3 1-1 Noblet 0-0 Champouillon 1 0·1 
6-7  4  3  12  
2·4  5  I  22  
0-1  1  2  8  
4-6  3  2  8  
0·0  3  2  4  
1-3  2  5  9  
0-1  3  2  
3-3  0  2  5  
0-2  1  0  2  
0-0  0  0  0  
1-2  2  1  I  

200 28-69 17-29 30 19 73 FG Pet.-.405. Ff Pet. · . 586. Team rebounds­
6. Turnovers . 13. Assists -13 (Presto 4). Technicals-None. 
Halftime . Notre Dame 66, Miami 40. Offi· cials-Paul Housman, Stanley Rote,Jim Birch. A -4,016. 
final game then Miami head coach Ron Godfrey had announced his resignation, effective at the end of the season. 
Seven weeks later , on April 22, 1971, it was all over. The University of Miami Board ofTrustees voted to drop basketball "temporarily until such a time as a permanent fieldhouse could be constructed on the main campus." Sagging atten­dance figures and serious financial losses were also believed to con­tribute to the board's decision. 
The program that had produced All-Americans Dick Hickox, Rick Barry and Don Currnutt, and the team that set an NCAA record by averaging 98.4 points per game in 1964-65, was gone. 
The revival began a little over 12 years later, on July 15, 1983, with the hiring of Athletic Director Sam Jankovich. Jankovich, A.D. at Was­hington State for seven years, im­mediately announced that the resurrection of men's basketaball at Miami would be the top priority of the early months ofhis tenure, in or­der to give Miami "one of the na­tion's most complete and visible overall programs in the country." 
Three months later the University Board of Trustees voted un­animously to reinstate men's basket­ball at Miami. The key factor in that decision was Jankovich's report stating that men's basketball could 

SUMMER JOBS 
EAIIN $3000 -$4500 THIS SUMMER e Exteroor House Paontong • 14 Week Monrmum Season e Management Opportunotoes on 1st Year 
• 40 Hours Per Week Great Career Experoence  @i_, . . r @[!,!l,rn;@rn;  
Slartong S5 Per Hour Wage  i"rdffi~!FlJ'  

HURRY! FI1J0~~1ckly ~ TEAM 
HOUSE PAINTERS Monneopolos. 51 Paul 
(612) tU-1250 
Chocogo . West Suburbs Cleveland Suburbs 
(JU) ..1-1209 (2~6) ll1-ot57 
Chocogo North Shoot! Cntumbus 
(JU) 419-121~ (614) It~· ~toO 
Exciting Permanent Careers Alao Ava 

SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare C1 Midway Airport One WaySZOOOaound TripSJOOI 
Available February 15th throqh March Jlst. Tickets purchased usable throape•t 1916 
INSIDE 
INDIANA (IM) 3J2 ..7323 LOCAL (2U) 674,.6993 4ih' can year tnvd qeat 


Open Tonight 10pm-2am 
Proceeds benefit Tu Tu ReliefFund 
21 jf.D.,s required 
Livf!Band 



~c:)~C3L~------------------------------------------M-<->n_d_a_y_,_Fe_b_r_u_ary
__2_4_,_1_9_8_6_-_P_a_ge__l_5 
~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~OM~~~ BOWLING NIGHT 
~~~~$~~... : AT Beacon Bowl 
A O}ffflki §'editHd ce~ 
9ue. Dutdoo't iJce. c::Ek.ating at the. M 24 9pm-12am c5tepan !Ba!J.ketb-aff cou'tt!J., a C"Winte't 9e.1J.tiuaf Ce.fe.fna.tion 
•
tE.uU ~jdac-e em f/"IU<)., §~ 25{u»n ¥---~2atn fflune uUII~a~~ ltdclt.ocolak, ~ ~~ 
Free bus transportation leaves main 
--~~IK'an j!ue ice~ -umlaludl/,. ~§. g;J. ~ 
and 9:30. Buses leave Beacon Bowl at 11, 
Bloom County 

Zeto 
EV~ MORNIN<5 AT 7:00 
TW.T NICE LITTLE OLl> 1'1\11/ STOPS HIS cAR TO THfii:JW us !="00!>. 
ACROSS 1 Boast 5 Egyptian god 9 Ghetto 
13 A Chaplin 14 Automaton 16 Swiss river 17 luge 18 Arrow 20 Plumlike fruit 21 Wrestling 
milieu 22 Defeated 23 Delicate 25 Pie-mode 26 Pursues 28 Excess 33 Nonsense! 34 Calyx part 36 Detection 
device 37 With regard to 39 More sensible 41 Spreads hay 
to dry 42 Dirties 44 Stair part 
46 My amigo's 
uncle 47 Fruitful 49 leave stranded 51 -Vegas 52 Terrace 53 Uproar 57 Samovar 58 Duck 61 Odin 63 -Sea (arm of 
the Arctic) 64 Teheran coin 65 Ointment 66 Okla. city 67 "-but the 
brave..." 68 Colored 69 Unit of Ioree 
DOWN 1 Head man 2 laze 3 Tom, Dick or 
Harry 4 Certain birds 5 Pledges 6 Pertaining to 
sound quality 7 Encourage 
WHAT 


MD EVERY I"'DRNIN& TtmE Lil2!>-8U1T BEESE HORDE IT N.l­r TE tl you Rl-tlM, TllE"Rt IS NO JU5Tt::E! 


ill1986 Tribune Media Semces, Inc. 2/24/86All Rights Reserved 
Friday's Solution 
8 By what means? 
9 Impudent talk 10 Cafe au­11 Goad 12 Repair 15 Postpone 19 Irish poet 24 He lost to 
ODE 
25 Everything: Ger. 
26 Brittle 
27 Esteem 
28 Hysterical fear 29 Highly spiced 30 Cause of 

intoxication 31 Source of 2/24/86entertainment 32 Malicious 48 Destinies 56 Air. river burning 50 Took a chance 57 Repulsive 
35 Prince of Troy 52 Verify 59 Shamrock land 
38 Building wing 53 Ripped 60 Virginia of 
40 Sentback 54 Freshwater tennis 
43 Stupid mussel 62 Household 
45 Sneaky person 55 Nasty member 
Berke Breathed 11le Far Side 



Kevin Walsh 

-
Campus 

•6:30 
P.M.-Meeting, Overseas Development Network, Center for Social Concerns General Purpose Room 

•7:30 
P.M. -Lecture -Discussion, Father George Zabelka, chaplain of the crew of the "Enola Gay," which dropped the bomb on Hiroshima, talking on his experiences, Center 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round ofBeef Sicilian Veal Vegetable Quiche 
TV Tonight 
6:30P.M. 7:00P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:00P.M. 
8:30P.M. 9:00P.M. 
16 NBC Nightly News 
:z:z CBS Evening News 

:Z8 ABC World News Tonight 
16 MASH 
:z:z Three's Company 
:Z8 jeopardy 
16 Barney Miller 
:z:z WKRP in Cincinnati 
:Z8 Wheel of Fonune 
16 TV Bloopers & jokes 
:z:z Scarecrow & Mrs. King 

28 Hardcastle & McCormick 
34 Wonderworks: "Anne of Green 
Gables"  
46  Calvary Temple  
16  NBC  Monday  Night  Movie:  
"Flashdance"  

22 CBS Special Movie: "Blood & Orchids" 28 ABC Monday Night Movie: "Crossings" (Pan 2) 

Testing the carnivore-proof vest. 
for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Center for Social Concerns and University Ministry, "Living the Challenge of Peace" 
•9:00 P.M. · Bowling Night, Winter Festival, Beacon Bowl (free transportation available from the main circle,) Sponsored by Student Activities Board 
Saint Mary's Roast Turkey with Cornbread Dressing Beef and Bean Burrito with nchilada Sau 
10:00P.M. 
10:30P.M. 
ll:OOP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
12:00A.M. 12:30A.M. 2:00A.M. 
Vegetarian Chow Mein Ham and Cheese Omelet 
34  American  Playhouse:  "Huck  
Finn"  
46  LeseaAiive  
34  Actors'  Theatre  Presents!  
"Approaching Lavender"  
46  Church Growth International  
34  American Indian Artists: "Larry  

Golsh" 
16 NewsCenter I 6 
:z:z Eyewitness News :Z8 Newswatch 28 
34 Body Electric 
46 Praise the Lord 
16 Tonight Show 22 Remington Steele . CBS Movie: "SUent Sentence" 28 ABC News NightJine 34 Star Trek 28 Eye on HoUywood 16 David Letterman 22 Nightwatch 
Late 

Monday, February 24, 1986 -page 16
SRorts 
Irish storm past Miami, 126-73 

By LARRY BURKE He need not have been overly concerned. The Irish AssistantSportsEditor toyed with the Hurricanes for the first seven minutes before going on a 21-7 tear midway through the first half to 
MIAMI-No, it wasn't the NBA, although there was plenty open up a 17-point lead, 40-23. Notre Dame closed out the of running, gunning, scoring and slamming. It was NCAA first half with a 12-3 spurt in the final 2:20 to open up a basketball and when it was over, Notre Dame had turned in 66-40 lead. one ofits best efforts ofthe season, good enough for a 126-It wasn't that the Hurricanes played that poorly in the 73 rout of Miami. first half-they hit 55 percent of their shots from the field 
The win came in front ofa crowd ofjust 4,016 at Miami's ( 17-of-31 ). The Irish were simply better. Notre Dame sank James L. Knight Center -about 1,000 under the arena's 67 percent (30-of-45) of its shots and outrebounded capacity. The game was, however, televised nationally by Miami by a 24-11 margin in the first 20 minutes. 
ESPN. The second halfwas more ofthe same, as the Hurricanes Notre Dame raised its record to 19-5 with the win, while hit on just 29 percent ( 11-of-38) of their shots. Miami Miami fell to 12-13, the first time the Hurricanes have been managed just eight points in the first nine minutes, while under .500 all season. Notre Dame poured in 30 to take a 96-48lead with 10:53 rematning. By then the only question was when the Irish
Ken Barlow paced the Irish with 28 points and eight would break the 100-point barrier. That happened with
rebounds, all in just 28 minutes. Barlow connected on 12­
9:45 left, when Scott Hicks canned a jumper from the foul
of-1 7 shots from the field and hit all four of his free throw 
line.
attempts. David Rivers added 19 points and nine assists in 
That made it the second stratght game that Notre Dame
25 minutes, and Donald Royal chipped in with 17 points 
had eclipsed the century mark. The Irish crushed Manhat­and seven rebounds in just 20 minutes. 
tan, 102-47last Wednesday and are averaging 101 points
The loss was the second worst in Miami history, outdone 
over their last three games.
only by its 127-69 thrashing at the hands ofUCLA in 1970. 
Along with good shooting, rebounding was the key to 
lbe 126 points were the most ever scored on the road Saturday's win. Notre Dame was nnked seventh in the na­by a Notre Dame team. The previous best on an opponent's tion in rebounding margin going into the game with a 9.1 court occurred in Notre Dame's 125-90 win at Villanova in average and certainly did nothing to hurt that standing by 1975. The all-time high came in a 135-88 pounding of St. outboarding the Hurricanes, 55-30. Peter's in the ACC in 1970. "I think we've seen this team get into a good groove the
Irish forward Donald royal goes up for a dunk 
"I think if you look at where we're coming from, and other night in New York, and our defensive intensity
against Dayton earlier this season. Royal had two 
where we're going, we're playing pretty well right now," seemed to carry over," said Phelps. 
dunks and 17 points in Notre Dame's 126-73 
said Irish coach Digger Phelps, in one ofthe night's bigger "We were able to push the ball up the floor and
thrashing of Miami Saturday night. Larry Burke 
understatements. "I knew that Miami played well at Duke dominate the boards tonight. We got the ball inside when
has game details at right and talks about revenge 
(a 104-82 Blue Devil win last Wednesday), and that con­
for Notre Dame's 58-7football loss to Miami in his 
see IRISH, page 14cerned me coming into this game." 
column below. 

Keys leads Notre Dame women to pair of wins on road 
By MARlY STRASSEN 
Sports Writer 
CHICAGO · Perhaps Loyola and DePaul can find some consolation in the fact that they will never have to play against Trena Keys again. 
The 6-1 senior stormed the Windy City this past weekend, lighting up the scoreboard and leading the Notre Dame women's basketball team to a pair of important victories. The Irish downed Loyola, 79-67. on Friday, then victimized DePaul yes­terday afternoon in a 73-58 win. 
Notre Dame boosted its record to I7-7 overall and 9-1 in the North Star Conference. 
Keys began her weekend domina­tion of Chicago teams at Loyola's Alumni Gymnasium, exploding in the second halfto spark the Irish to a big victory over the Lady Ramblers. Loyola, which dropped to 7-3 in the conference, stayed close in the first half, but it was only a matter of time before Notre Dame took charge. 
Keys, whose seven first-half points put her team on top by four at 33-29, took matters into her own hands in the second half. She found her mark shooting over the Rambler zone, netting 2 3 points in the second half to lift her game total to 30 on I 3-of­2I from the field and 4-of-5 from the free-throw line. 
Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao has come to expect such perfor­mances from Keys. 
"Trena took over and that's what you expect from your senior all­America candidate," DiStanislao said. "There wasn't anybody in the country better than her tonight. 
"In the second half she really worked to get open. She went after her opportunities and got them. She was really aggressive and it paid off." 
Keys' 30 points were one short of her own Notre Dame record for points in a game, and she set a new record for career 10-point games in the contest, surpassing Shari Mat· vey's old mark of 70. 
"In the first half I wasn't shooting well," Keys said. "In the second halfl stopped thinking about it as much and just played my game. The shots just started falling." 

Diondra Toney and Mary Gavin added II points apiece for the Irish, while Sandy Botham and Heidi Bunek chipped in IO each. Toney, a 5-9 freshman, pulled down a personal-high I4 rebounds with the Irish front line in foul trouble. 
"We dodged a bullet with the big people getting in foul trouble," said DiStanislao. "Didi (Toney) is doing a good job. She did a great job on the boards and took advantage of her weak-side positioning." 
Toney credited her success to a recem increase in playing time, as Friday's game was her second con­secutive start. 
''I'm getting more into the of­fense," she said. "I decided that this was my time to contribute to the team. I'm staning to do more be­cause I'm getting more playing time. It's just coming naturally now. 
"I've been working on my rebounding in practice. I know I can't jump over anybody so I just try to get postition and make sure I'm around the basket." 
The Irish turned their thoughts to DePaul yesterday and expected a physical contest. They were not dis· appointed. 
Keys scored 20 of her 25 points in the second half. once again turning a close game into a decisive victory. In fact, the Irish trailed the Lady Blue Demons by a point at the half, but they raised their shooting 
see KEYS, page 11 
Miami fans were the only ones talking football 
MIAMI-Footballflashback: Nov. 30, 1985. The Orange 
to take advantage ofwhat defenses the opponents run, not Bowl. Notre Dame vs. Miami. The final: Hurricanes 58, to be governed by the scoreboard.
Larry 

"We didn't even have a punt block in our game plan. We Saturday night the two schools went at it again, but this had punt-return-left and punt-return-right on. We had two time it was a different sport, a different setting, a different Burke men rushing the punter and that block for the touchdown 
cast and most ofall, a drastically different outcome. just happened." That football game of three months ago was on a lot of Assistant Sports Editor Then consider this quote from another coach that same people's minds Saturday night when the 'Canes played host evening. 
to the Irish in men's basketball at the James L. Knight "Football's football. You play to win. These are the deci­Center. But oddly enough, the Miami students were the "We subbed often," Phelps said. "We can't concern our­sions a coach has to make. I don't fault him. What's three only ones bringing it up. selves with the margin of victory. We've got to give our points or 30 points? You've still lost." 
If there was any doubt that Hurricane fans were looking starters a decent amount of playing time, especially with In case you hadn't guessed, the first quote was from Hur­for their team to stick it to the Irish once more for old times the stretch drive coming up. ricane coachJimmyJohnson on that warm night in Novem­sake, it vanished before Saturday night's game even began. ber. The second was from former Irish coach Gerry Faust. 
Irish 7. 
"And when our guys come in off the bench I can't tell
Chants of"58-7!" greeted the Irish as they took the court Coaches remaJrks were another way in which Saturday
them to lay off. They're in there to play as hard as they can.
for pre-game warmups, and again immediately before the night's outcome bore an ironic resemblance to what 
That pass from Michael Smith to Gary Voce in the second
Notre Dame players were introduced. transpired back on Nov. 30. 
half is one example. (A picture-perfect alley-oop pass with
Later, during a second-half timeout and with the game But was the revenge factor on Notre Dame's mind Satur­
44 seconds left.)

already "competitively out of hand," football allusions day night? Ifso, nobody was admitting to it. 
"If our guys are out there zone-pressing all over the
again found their way onto the basketball court. This time "Sure, this is a big rivalry," Irish captian Ken Barlow said 
floor, then you can look at me," Phelps continued. But
it was a Miami cheerleader having her punt blocked by afterwards. "But we're not concerned about the football 
tonight I was just letting the kids play. Wben you've got
"the Miami Maniac," the Hurricane mascot who looks sort game -it was nothing like that. That was just something 
guys that work hard in practice every day you can't tell
oflike an orange Phillie Phanatic: unfortunate that happened early in the season. We're just
them to stop scorim~ just because you're up by 30."
With th= Irish on top 115-64 at that point, it seemed concerned about playing well to get ready for the tourne­more than a little ironic for anyone wearing orange and Foster, meanwhile, tried unsuccessfully to hide his ment. (The revenge factor) was more ofa distraction than green to be staging a a stunt like that. But perhaps there's dejection. Did the humilating loss bother him? anything else." something to be said for saving face. "Nothing bothers me," he said. "It'll all come back Whether anyone would admit it or not, the "score" is 
Whatever the case, the Hurricanes had very little face around someday. I can't worry about things I can't control. evidently settled. The Irish beat Miami 126-73 Saturday left after Saturday's pounding. Hurricane coach Bill Foster I know Digger's trying to get his team ready for post­night, and for those of you scoring at home, that's a 53­put things pretty well in perspective when he said his club season." point margin ofvictory, two points better than Miami's 51­was "physically whipped." Does this all sound a little familiar? If not, consider the point bulge on Nov. 30. That would seem to put an end to 
Afterwards, Irish coach Digger Phelps found himself following quote from a noted football coach. things. somewhat on the defensive when someone hinted that his "You stay in the offense that you run. We're a passing Of course there's always the next Notre Dame-Miami team may have been guilty ofpouring it on. team. Everybody knows that. We school our quarterbacks football game on Nov. 28, 1987 to look forward to. 
• 



