Campus Life Council-page 5 

VOL. XXI, NO. 3 I 
Man with shotgun is jailed 
By MARY HEILMANN Assistant News t:ditor 
Notre Dame Security con­firmed Tuesday that a man pos­sessing a sawed-off shotgun was arrested outside Morrissey and Lyons halls late Monday night. 
Security officers identified the man as David J. Dutka, 19, of Goshen, Ind., according to a statement released Tuesday. 
Dutka is being held in the Saint Joseph Countyjail on charges of possession of a sawed-off shot­gun and a minor in possession of alcohol, according to Deputy Bruce Martin of the Saint Joseph County jail booking department. 
Security was called at about 
9:30 p.m. Monday after a gate officer noticed the "suspicious activity" of two men who hadjust entered campus in a car driven by Dutka, according to the state­ment. 
The men had told the gate of­ficer they were going to South Dining Hall. The officer, however, watched the pair drive past it. 
When Security officers ap­proached Dutka in the Lyons Hall parking lot. he was standing alone next to his vehicle, the statement said. One of the offi­cers also had seen another man walking toward Morrissey Hall. 
Dutka claimed that he was on­campus to drop off a hitchhiker he had picked up in Goshen, the statement said. Dutka said he 
seeGUNS, page 4 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


McBrien criticizes Curran's removal 



The Observei1Jim carroll 

What's up doc? 
Sophomore Bryan Green monitors a phone at Counseline, a confidential telephone service that offers professionally taped materials for a wide variety of student concerns, in­c~uding suicidal crisis, homosexual tendancies and depres­Sion. 
Parietals revision is approved by HPC 
By REGIS COCCIA Copy Editor 
A unanimous vote of approval was given to a proposal concern­ing changes in parietals at last night's Hall Presidents' Council meeting. 
The proposal, presented by Senate Committee on Parietals Chairman Brian Holst. recom­mends changes to the current du Lac policy that would extend Sun­day visitation hours to I 2:30 
a.m. and push back morning visitation to I 0 a.m. 
The proposal will be presented at the Campus Life Council today, and if passed, would then need the approval of Vice Presi­dent for Student Affairs Father David Tyson for it to become of­ficial policy. 
"Extending visitation to 12:30 on Sunday evenings makes (parietals) more consistent with masses," Holst said, noting that many dorms celebrate Sunday mass late in the evening. 
'iolst also said the proposal is concerned with lessening the penalties of parietals violations. He emphasized that the senate committee "maintains that breaking parietals is still a serious violation," but considers the penalty of suspension for overnight parietals violations un­necessary. 
· The senate committee is seeking an amendment to du Lac, Holst said. "The proposed change lessens the possibility of suspension for a first-time of­fender. but still gives the Univer­sity the prerogative to suspend or dismiss an offender who already has a record of parietals violations or who repeatedly dis­regards regulations concerning parietals," said Holst. 
In other business, Judicial Council member Maria Cintron announced that anyone accused of a University offense can con­tact her for help and advice. Cintron said she has University permission to attend hearings, but cannot contact accused stu­dents. Students accused ofa Uni­versity offense, Cintron said, must get in touch with her if they want advice. 
HPC Chairman Joanie Cahill said all halls were represented at a special HPC meeting Monday with Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick. She said a special committee meeting with Goldrick will be 
see HPC, Page 4 
By CLIFF STEVENS Assistant News Editor 
The recent Vatican removal of a Catholic University theolo­gian's teaching post would be "legally impossible" at Notre Dame, according to t•ather Rich­ard McBrien, chairman ofthe the­ology department. 
McBrien said a move like the ban against Father Charles Cur­ran's teaching at Catholic Univer­sity, Washington, D.C., could not be repeated here because Notre Dame is independently owned and operated under a lay board of trustees and subject to state law and rules of accreditation. 
Citing Catholic University's lone status as a Vatican­chartered American university, McBrien said Curran's removal was partly motivated by his "vul­nerability" to Vatican control. 
"If (Curran) were at Notre Dame, they couldn't have gotten at him," said McBrien. "They could have condemned him, they could have censored him, but he'd still be teaching." 
Curran, a critic of the Church's positions on public theological dissent and sexual morality, in­cluding artificial birth control, was informed or his removal Aug. 18 in a letter signed by the head of the Vatican's Congrega­tion for the Doctrine of the Faith. 
McBrien said that although Catholic theologians, including those at Notre Dame, are techni­cally subject to canonical man­date, "nobody knows" the 
precise meaning and application 
of the concept. 
"Who gives the mandate? Who 
has to have the mandate? If the 
mandate is removed, is there any 
kind of appeal process?" asked 
McBrien, saying that canon law 
fails to answer these and other 
relevant questions. 
McBrien, widely quoted in the 
national media on the issue, said 
Curran's removal indicated the 
"right wing" of the Church wants 
Catholic universities to be "like 
a Catholic seminary" rather than 
maintain standards of academic 
freedom. 
"Can an institution be Catholic 
and a university at the same 
time?'' he asked. "That's what's 
at issue here." 
Attributing national leadership 
to University President Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, he said 
Catholic universities had proven 
the compatibility of Catholicism 
and academic integrity. 
McBrien said Hesburgh and 
most of the presidents of Cath­
olic American universities regard 
the Vatican's proposed new rules 
for Catholic universities as "un­
workable." 
"You can't have a true univer­
sity that's subject to the control 
of people outside it. especially 
non-academic people," McBrien 
said. "You can't do that and still 
have a university." 
He said Curran's removal "ef­. fectively undermined any claims" that Catholic University 
see CURRAN, page 4 


CLC meeting is closed to public 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 
Citing the need for open dis­cussion of three parietals proposals, Student Body Pres­ident Mike Switek has decided to close today's Campus Life Council meeting to the public. 
"Ifthe presence of the press or non-CLC members will prevent good conversation and hinder the chances of the resolution passing, then I feel I have to eliminate that hindrance," said Switek. 
"The most important thing is that we get that resolution through and I want to do anything I can do," said Switek. 
The CLC, which includes rectors, student representa­tives and administrators, will discuss three proposed changes to the parietals policy. 
The proposals would extend Sunday visitation hours to 
12:30 a.m., push back mor­ning visitation hours to I 0 a.m., and reduce the penalty for overnight parietals viola­tions. 
Switek said he decided to close the meetingafter talking with former CLC members, former student senators, per­sons who had worked with the CLC and Executive Assistant to the (Student Body) Presi­dent Bruce Lohman. 
Switek said he'll discuss whether or not to close future CLC meetings with council members today. 
"''m going to talk to the rec­tors .at this meeting," Switek said. "More than likely future CLC meetings will be open to the public." 
Last year, the CLC voted to prohibit The Observer from reporting which way individ­ual members voted on proposals. 
Besides the possibility of closing future meetings. Switek saidlhe only proposals 
to  be  discussed  are  the  
changes  in  the  parietals  
policy.  

The three proposals, rec­ommended by the Student Senate Committee on Parie­tals, would all amend policies stated in the student hand­book du Lac. Any proposal adopted by the CLC must be a-pproved by Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson for it to become official policy. 
The first two proposed changes would extend Sunday parietals from midnight to 
12:30 a.m., and push back morning visitation hours from II a.m. to 10 a.m. 
The third proposal would change the wording of du Lac to read "An overnight parie­tals violation is a serious viola­tion of the University regula­tions." 
The proposal would then 
add: "Repeated violations of 
University rules and regula­
tions may result in suspen­
sion or dismissal." 
Du Lac now reads "Over­
night parietal violations in­
volve suspension or dismis­
sal." 
The proposal states that this change would "lessen the possibility of suspension for a first-time offender, but still (give) the University the 
perogative to suspend or dis­miss an offender who already has a poor record or who repeatedly disregards the reg­ulations concerning parie­tals." 
Members debated a similar proposal brought by Lohman last spring but took no action on it. 


In Brief 
Pope John Paul II, an avid skier, will get his own pair of K-2 VO slaloms from a group of Colorado priests. "Each area where our order is from is bringing a gift for the Holy Father," said the Rev. Mark Matson. "We thought what could be more typically Colorado than skis.... It was between skis and Coors (beer), and skis won out." -Associated Press 
More children have been shot to death in Detroit so far this year than in all of 1985, according to police records. "The reason we're seeing more kids killed or wounded is because there's a greater utilization of teens and subteens in the drug business," said Executive Deputy Police Chief James Bannon. "There's an awful lot of shooting going on out there that's a result of drug trafficking and disputes over turf from which to deal drugs," Bannon said. -Associated Press 
Three white supremacists set off bombs in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho, as diversions to planned holdups at two banks and a National Guard armory, an FBI agent says. One of the men, who has offered to cooperate with authorities, told the FBI that he and his two co-conspirators planned the robberies because they needed money for food and vehicles, and weap­ons to wage war against the government. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
A concert featuring The Monkeys will be held at the Athletic and Convocation Center Tuesday, November IIth at 7:.30 
p.m. Tickets will go on sale next Monday. Student ticket sales will start at 9 a.m. at the ticket windows located at Gate .3 of the A.C.C., the Fieldhouse Dome. Students purchasing tickets must have valid student IDs and may buy a maximum of four tickets. No lines may form before 6 a.m. on Monday. A ticket sale for the general public will also be taking place at the Gate 10 ticket windows of the A.C.C., the Arena Dome. -The Observer 
The Business Careers Forum will be held tonight at 7 in the Memorial Library auditorium. Three business executives will give advice on business careers and how to prepare for them. Their talks, sponsored by the Notre Dame Management Club, will be followed by an open discussion. Everyone is invited. -The Observer 
"Women and Morality" will be discussed by Dr. Leslie Griffin of Notre Dame today from 12: IS to I: 15 p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Loung~ at Saint Mary's College. This is the last lecture in the Issues Facing Women in the Church Fall 
1986 Series. It is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
A lecture, "Spenser and Echo Metaphor," will be presented by Professor Theresa Krier, of the Notre Dame English de­partment. today at .3:45p.m. in Wilson Commons. Everyone is invited. -The Observer 
Healthy food choices at SAGA and for life will be discussed tonight from 6:.30-7:.30 by Julie Mareschi, R.D., M.S., clinical dietician for an eating disorder program at a Chicago hospital and nutritional consultant for SAGA. The free lecture will be held in Regina North Lounge. -The Observer 
An Interview Training Workshop for seniors in all majors will be held next Monday from 4 to 5 p.m. and Tuesday from 7 to 8 p.m. Students may pre-register by Friday in the Career and Placement Services office. -The Observer 
A fireside chat on the Middle East will be held by Dr. Nazih Daher of Notre Dame today at 4:.30 in the International Stu­dents Lounge as part of the Multicultural Fall Festival. This evening's festival events include a studenttfaculty reception in the Snite Museum from 7:.30 to 9 p.m. and a free showing of the movie "Running Brave" in the Center for Social Con­cerns at 9 p.m. -The Observer 

Weather 
Will Sam marry Diane? Only time and a season of watching "Cheers" will tell. In the meantime, Wednesday's weather will be partly sunny with highs in the mid to upper 60s. Like Soviet submarines, tem­peratures will sink into the upper 40s Wed­nesday night. A .30 percent chance of showers Thursday with highs near 60. ­


Associated Press 
=--=Ihe-~Observer 
Design Editor . ........ Kathy Huston Accent Layout . ...... Sharon Emmite Design Assistant . ..... Chris Donnelly Typists ................ Ester Ivory Layout Staff. ......... Heidi Traxler ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovac News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski SMC Day Editor . ....... Karen Webb Copy Editor .......... Patty Censky ................... Monique Kelly Sports Copy Editor . ... Rick Rietbrock AdDesign .......... Sharon Emmite Accent Copy Editor . .. Mike Naughton Photographer . ........ David Fischer 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas· ed for S40 per year (S25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Intelligence service is vital to the safety of United States 
When people think of the CIA, many different images pop into their minds. Some imagine a foreign intelligence-gathering unit as it is portrayed in spy novels: men wearing dark glasses and trench coats chasing Russian spys. Others see the CIA operating on the front lines of the battlefield for freedom, protecting the United States from threats from Communists, San­danistas, and Muammar Kaddafi. 
I came face to face with the CIA yesterday. No, I was not thrown into the backseat of a car and interrogated nor was I making a secret "drop" at the darkened corner of a park. The clandestine confrontation came at my request in the basement of Memorial Library. The purpose: to get a job with the CIA which is now recruiting on campus at the Career and Placement Center. 
The interview , like any other, began with a quick handshake and a long walk down a hallway to the interviewing room. Once inside with the door tightly closed, I half-expected the man In the plaid jacket to pull out a polygraph machine to make sure I was who I said I was. 
Halfway through the interview the man stated that he thought I should consider "clandestine operations." I knew what he was talking about: the recruitment, development and use of foreign nationals to gather intelligence for the United States government. In other words, he wanted me to consider becoming a spy. 
I said I would think about it. With literature in hand and a ticket to gain entrance to the CIA exam in November, I exited the room. My initial contact with the CIA was over. 
When I told my friends I was interviewing with the CIA, one commented "I don't believe it. Why would you want to work for an icky organization like that?" 
After reflecting on this deep and insightful ques­tion, I thought of several responses. My first in­clination was to ask what was wrong with the CIA. I expected to hear a long list of CIA sins, from the assasination of foreign leaders to the over­throw ofgovernments. Admittedly, the stories that abound about CIA activities do not reflect well upon the agency. What the CIA does seems hor­rible to some and honorable to others. How many of us would deem it horrible, for example, to know that the CIA was involved in an attempt to as­sasinate Kaddafi? 
The truth is, many citizens believe that the CIA is no different from its Russian counterpart, the KGB. They believe that the CIA is hurting, not helping, the case for world democracy by engag­ing in activities such as spying, training subver­sives and staging covert operations like the so­called "covert" training of Contra rebels in Nicaragua. If the CIA was abolished, then the world would be a better place for democracy, they say. 
At times people forget the service the CIA pro-


Chris Bowler 
Production Manager 

vides for the well being of this society. An example was a report last week that intelligence sources had uncovered several terrorist plots to be carried out here in the United States. I sincerely believe that the CIA has helped to prevent terrorism in '.he United States by gathering information that led to the discovery of these plans. 
Another good example of CIA service is the de­velopment of sophisticated spy satellites that can monitor Soviet compliance with nuclear arms treaties. 
In past years when the CIA was recruiting on campus, protesters had tried to prevent this "morally corrupt" organization from interviewing at a Catholic university. I would argue that these protesters have done a disservice to their country. Notre Dame is an ideal place for the recruitment of future CIA employees. Unlike other universities, Notre Dame puts a premium on ingraining a moral character in its students. Values taught at Notre Dame are what the CIA needs. 
Although I am not sure the CIA is for me. I hope other ND students decide to pursue a career with that agency and take with them some of the values instilled here at Notre Dame. Our future safety may rest on these students and the intelligence they gather. 

Boston University 
WASHINGTON INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS 

• 
Interested in learning about-and working in-governmental and political affairs in Washington, D.C.? Juniors and Seniors with at least a 3.0 average are invited to apply for a one-semester, 16 credit learning experience in the nation's capital. 

• 
Supervised internships based on your specific interests are arranged with members of Congress, Executive Branch agencies, media organizations, trade associations, public interest groups, corporate public-affairs offices, and educa­tion associations. 

• 
Seminars with leading government experts, supervised by Boston University faculty, focus on legislative and current policy issues. 

• 
Scholarship assistance is available. The application deadline for the spring semester is October 27, 1986. For information and an application, complete and send the form below. 


Please send information and an application for Boston University's Washington 
Internship Programs to 
Mail to: Boston University 
Name College of Liberal Arts 725 Commonwealth Avenue 
Telephone Room 106 Boston, MA 02215 
Address Boston University is an equal opportunity institution. 
State Zip 


The Observer Wednesday, October 8, 1986, -page 3 


Fall festival is set to begin 
By KATIE SULLIVAN News Staff 
This year's Saint Mary's Col­lege Fall Fest. a two-day ex­travaganza, will include a wide variety of cultural, social and ethnic events for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­
munity,  according  to  Lisa  
Lawler,  traditional  events  
commissioner.  

Wednesday's events will begin with preliminary rounds of co-ed volleyball at the An­gela Athletic Facility. Games will begin at 6:00 p.m. The co-ed volleyball finals will take place Thursday evening beginning at 6:30p.m. The Pulitzer prize winning comedy "Crimes of the Heart" will be performed Wednesday and Thursday from 8-10 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets are $4. 
An ethnic German dinner 

Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 
4219 Grape Road 277-6403 
Lo Island Club Bus 
Round Trip-$70 
Reservations can be made between 7 and 9 pm on Thursday, October 9, in the basement of LaFortune. Payment must be made in full at this time. 
Any Questions: Tomx1310 Mikex3122 Mary Grace x2735 Mattx4362 
will be served for all Saint Mary's students Thursday eve­ning at the Saint Mary's dining hall. A German band will en­tertain during the dinner. 
The fall Fest Gardens will take place Thursday from 9 
p.m. -I a.m. on the field be­hind Havican Hall at Saint Mary's. There will be a beer garden tent for all those with a 21 ID and another tent for dancing. Both tents will be serving soda and Domino's pizza. 
A disc jockey contest will also take place under the tents. Two amateur disc jock­eys will compete against two professionals for a $ I00 prize. 
Although Germans refer to such an event as Octoberfest, the Saint Mary's College event is called Fall Fest to avoid the image of beer, according to Lawler. 

American crash survivor held by Sandinista government officials 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua -An American who survived when Sandinista soldiers shot down a cargo plane said Tuesday he is an aviation specialist who boarded the C-123 in El Sal­vador, and was captured in the 
jungle  a  day  after  the  plane  
crashed.  
Nicaraguan  officials  have  

claimed Eugene Hasenfus, 45, of Marinette, Wis., is an American military adviser serving in El Sal­vador and the transport shot down Sunday in southern Nicaragua was carrying weapons and ammunition to U.S.-backed Contra rebels fighting the leftist Sandinistas. 
Sandinista army Lt. Col. Roberto Calderon said in Managua that Hasenfus and two Americans who died on the plane carried identification associating 


Correction 
Tuesday's brief about the joint meeting of the Board of Governance and the Program­ming Board at Saint Mary's in­correctly reported a commit­tee being formed. 
them with the U.S. military advi­sory group in El Salvador. 
However, officials in Washing­ton denied any connection be­tween Hasenfus and the U.S. government. 
It was not clear from the Amer­ican's brief remarks to reporters Tuesday whether he was a mili­tary man or a civilian. 
Calderon also said Sandinista officials were considering whe­ther to put Hasenfus on trial and whether to return the American victims' bodies to their families. 
Hasenfus, unshaven and wearing muddied denim cloth­ing. was led onto a stage at the Government Press Center in Managua after being flown by helicopter Tuesday from the crash site. 
"My name is Gene Hasenfus. I come from Marinette, Wis. I was captured yesterday in southern Nicarauga. Thank you," he said in a shaky voice. He was led away after 20 seconds, and reporters could riot question him. 
Hasenfus also was allowed to 
speak to local journalists briefly 
in San Carlos, a port on Lake 
Nicaragua near the crash site. He 
said the plane began its journey 
in Miami, picked him up in El 
Salvador, then took a Nicaraguan 
aboard in Honduras and entered 
Nicaraguan air space from Costa 
Rica at a site known as La Noca 
on the San Juan River. 
According to Hasenfus, the 
Nicaraguan was one ofthree men 
killed in the crash. 
Nicaraguan army officers who 
accompanied Hasenfus said the other two men killed were Americans they identified as Wal­lace Blaine Sawger Jr. and Bill Cooper. Their hometowns were not available. 

Nicaragua had said initially that all three dead men were Americans, but Calderon later said one was of "Latin origin." 
The bodies were said to be in bad condition and still at the crash site in a remotejungle area north of the San Juan River, which helicopters had difficulty in reaching because ofpoor wea­ther. 
Calderon, chief of the military district where the plane was shot down, quoted Hasenfus as saying Sunday's night had been his fourth Contra supply flight since July. 
Calderon said Hasenfus'job in 
the supply flight was to kick 
bundles of supplies out of the 
plane. The C-123 is an older­
model aircraft that was used 
Ministry secretary-general, said 
on ABC's "Good Morning 
America" program Tuesday that 
the plane was on "a CIA opera­
tion with CIA operatives." 
CIA spokeswoman Kathy Pher­
son said in Washington: "The guy 
doesn't work for us and CIA is 
not involved.... There are con­
gressional restrictions on assis­
tance to the Contras and we do 
not break those restrictions." 
widely during the Vietnam War. 
Calderon claimed documents 
found in the downed transport 
plane and on the victims' bodies 
identified Cooper and Sawger as 
members of the U.S. military ad­
visory group in El Salvador. 
If you do, The Ob•erver uews departmeut ueed• you. A special •e••ion on interview• for new reporters will be held today at 7 p.m. AU in­terested should meet at 

z ALL SENIORS GOING TO 0 --JAMAICA-­
-

~ Mandatory Meeting Thurs. Oct 9
z 


7:00pm in Washington Hall
LLI 

I­Room assignments and day of departure I-will be discussed, and free trips will be <( raffled off. Please attend. 
1 
1 1 
1 
1 
Doctrines considered "infal­versities like Notre Dame is a dif­up for the United Way drive in lible" by the Church include the ferent matter that "might come November. Sidensticker said in­


Curran HPC
Trinity. up later." terested students can sign up in
continuedfrom page 1 

continuedfrom page 1 Theology professor Father "I think that's what they are the student government offices 
is a "serious university." 
McBrien said that most Catho­lic theologians, like Curran, dis­agree with the Vatican prohibi­tion on artificial birth control. 
"You will find only a very tiny minority of Catholic theologian~ and a tiny minority ofcatholic lay people who agree with (the Vatican prohibition)," he said. 
McBrien also cited a commis­sion established by Pope John XXIII in the early 1960's that rec­ommended, by a two-thirds majority, to change the Church position on artificial birth control -a recommendation the pope subsequently chose not to fol­low. 
McBrien also said that none of Curran's dissenting positions, in­cluding disagreement with the Church on artificial birth control, involve "infallible" Church teach­ing, and are therefore open to dissent. 

Guns 
continuedfrom page 1 
had agreed to take the man to Notre Dame in exchange for a beer. 
Dutka said the man identified himself as Will Cavanaugh, ac­cording to the statement. 
There is no student by that name in the Notre Dame phone directory. 
After officers searched unsuc­
cessfully for Dutka's passenger, 
Dutka offered to produce the 
man's phone number, which he 
said was in his car. 
When Dutka reached into his 
car, Assistant Director of Notre 
Dame Security Phillip Johnson 
noticed what appeared to be a 
short shotgun on the floor of the 
car, the statement said. The 
shotgun, a Sears model 20­
gauge single shot, was partially 
covered and was loaded with a 
single cartridge. 
Security officers immediately 
removed Dutka from the car, 
searched and handcuffed him. 
Dutka was then taken to the Saint 
Joseph County jail. 
The passenger in Dutka's car 
had not yet been found as of late 
Tuesday night, according to Rex scheduled monthly. HPC mem­in Lafortune. bers agreed to a general meeting HPC Co-Chairman Sheila with Goldrick in early December. O'Connor said publicity for the 
In other business, Cahill intro­Buzz Bus will be continued, add­
duced Kim Weesner, a photog­ing that schedule and ride cards rapher from The Picture Man in are forthcoming. South Bend. Weesner said In other news, Joanie Cahill photographers from The Picture said the Student Activities Board 
Man are available "to shoot can­will present the band "Berlin" at did pictures at parties, hall pic­Stepan Center on Saturday, Dec. tures, interhall sports and wed­6. 
dings." Activity forms for the Sowder 
Weesner said there is no Award, the highest award a hall photographer's fee, except for can receive for extraordinary per­weddings. The Picture Man, formance and quality in interhall Weesner said, offers titled prints activities, were distributed at the at the following prices: 4 x 6, $2 meeting. The due date for appli­each; 8 x I 0, the standard size cation is Tuesday, Oct. 14. hall picture, $5; 10 x 14, $7.50. Cahill announced the appoint­
Commissioner of Housing and ment of Morrissey Hall's Pat Security John Ginty spoke about McCabe as HPC executive com­Hall Social Space, urging hall missioner. presidents "to decide what they Cahill also announced the need." Ginty said requests are change of the HPC Hall Life Fund due by December I and can be Budget Committee meeting. The submitted to him or Director of Budget committee, consisting of Student Residences Evelyn Badin Hall's Trav Collins, Flanner Reinebold. Ginty said each hall Hall's John Schirger, Howard is expected to pitch in one third Hall's Jim Bradford, Lewis Hall's 
of the cost of each requested Kris Thompson, and Keenan item. 
Hall's Frank Publicover will meet 
John Sidensticker, representa­at 7:30 p.m. at the apartment of tive of the United Way, asked stu­HPC Co-Chairmen Joanie Cahill dent hall representatives to sign 
and Sheila O'Connor. 
t THELAWCARAVAN ~ iC iC iC Thursday, Oct.9 ~ iC / ""'' 
-tc /.~ 12-4 p.m. ~• iC \..~ Stepan Center · ~ 

~ 1~. iC 
iC Over 200 nationally iC 1c recognized law schools iC i( will participate iC iC iC 
~ • • Don't miss this chance to rub elbows ~ 
~ with the BEST! ~ 
i( Co-sponsored by the Pre-Law Society and i( i( Career and Placement Services iC 
Matthew Miceli, who supports the Church teaching on artificial birth control, said popular dis­agreement with the Church teaching, ifsuch exists, does not make artificial control morally correct. 
"Even if everyone was against it. that does not make it right," he said. "Morality is not deter­mined by votes." 
Miceli said Curran's right to dissent included discussing his positions with colleagues and writing books, but said theologians at universities char­tered by the papacy like Catholic University should teach the Church position on controversial matters in classrooms. 
Again noting Catholic Univer­sity's distinction as a Vatican­chartered school, he said Vatican control of private Catholic uni-afraid of," said Miceli of Curran's defenders. 
McBrien said recent Vatican 
moves against Seattle Arch­
bishop Raymond Hunthausen 
are "potentially more volatile" 
than the Curran case. 
Differing with the church on 
matters including the place of 
women in the church and sexual 
morality, Hunthausen revealed 
5ept.3 that several of his powers 
had been transferred to an aux­
iliary bishop appointed by the 
Vatican. 
Saying the Vatican "overplayed its hand," McBrien predicted much argument and discussion on the matter at next week's meeting of bishops in Washing­ton, D.C. 
McBrien said these recent con­troversies are not out ofstep with history. 
Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security. 
"We're still trying to track down the other man," Rakow said. "We think we know who it might be, but it wouldn't be prudent to release any information right now," he added. 
Authorities were interviewing Dutka at thejail Tuesday for fur­ther information on the other man's identity, according to Mar­tin. Martin said Dutka is expected to appear in court some time today. 

~w~~ COMING! g····· ~~£ OCTOBER .­
,~ 



/~BREAK~~~ 
~ DOITALU 
~ 

I )-tcCondltlon In Bootb 
~Tanln Beds ~Relax on Massage Bed 


Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609Grape Road


1M-~ 
Mishawaka 
!MULTICULTURAL FALL FESTIVAL! TOMORROW'S EVENTS THURSDAY. OCTOBER 9th • Lithography Display Snite Museum at 9:00 • St. Francis Shoppe Display Library Foyer from 9:00-4:00 • American Lebanese Club Fieldhouse Mall 12:00-1:00 • Multicultural Dinners Dining Halls from 4:45-6:45 • Fireside Chat with Provost Timothy O'Meara discussing China ISO Lounge at 8:00 MORE COMING TOMORROW ...  


Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients NOWRENTINGFORFALL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before October 15th andget ONE MONTH RENTFREE 
Offt~ at 820 ND Ave 
234-6647 
CaUAaytime 
ll====================il -----------TheFourth Annual-----------.. 
APPLY NOW! 
For a position with United Way of NotreDame: 
e Vice Chairperson e Treasurer e Publicity Director 
Applications and info sheet in Student Government offices. 
Applications due Friday, Oct. 10 
·~~======================~· 
BUSINESS CAREERSFORUM 
Wednesday, October 8th 
7:00 pm in the Library Auditorium 
A chance to hear diverse speakers give insights about the world of business and how to get ready to enter it. 
THE EVENING'S SPEAKERS: John Hurley, consultant, Arthur Anderson & Co., Chicago Ron Nahser, president and CEO, Frank C. Nahser Inc. Advertising Agency, Chicago Mary Ann Weldon, director, financial controls analysis division, General Motors, Detroit 
Everyone is welcome to attend. An informal reception will follow the forum.
ll.iiiiii~~~~~i!!i!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii sponsored by the ND management Club 






"ie~~_O_i_n__t____~~~~we~dne~sda~~oct~ober~8,19~86,~-pag~es 
Openness must be stressed in student leader actions 
The Campus Life Council will be meeting this afternoon in the Center for Continuing Education building to discuss three parietals proposals. The doors will be closed. 
Student Body President Mike Switek has announced his decision to close the meeting to the public. 
The council includes students, rectors and administrators. Accor­ding to Switek, some members of the council might feel restrained if the meeting were open to the public. He said this action will improve the chances for free discussion on this controversial topic. 
The benefits of this action do not outweigh the public's right to know. 
Past student government administrations have taken similar ap­proaches when faced with controversial matters. Closing the doors to the public has led only to a loss of support from the student body. Students want accountability for the policies their leaders pursue. This cannot be done unless the meetings are open for public review. 
At this meeting, the CLC could make a decision that would sub­stantially affect hall life. Students have the right to be present. 
The spirit ofopenness which hascharacterized Switek and Student Body Vice President Don Montanaro's political careers isjeopardized by this action. 
The Observer believes Switek and Montanaro are sincere in wan­ting to keep their administration open to the students. 
Attempting to demonstrate their openness to students, both leaders moved their desks outside on the quad Monday; however, keeping their meetings open to the public would be a much more effective demonstration of their openness. 
-The Observer 

Hungry and students benefitted from Rasta 
Dear Editor: 
As a proud graduate of Notre Dame, was upset upon hearing of the decision to cancel the Rally Against Starvation (RASTA) a a student group. Two years ago, I founded RASTA along with a close friend of mine, Santiago O'Donnell. The group became much more than another charity organization working for African food relief. Through a series of campus lectures, movies, and educational activl· ties which focused upon African history and culture as well as upon the tragic famine, RASTA generated a cultural and spiritual awareness ofthe relationship be­tween U.S. citizens and the less fortunate people in famine-stricken Africa. 
RASTA's main event, the Spring Reggae festival, was also a cultural affair which helped raise the consciousness level of the Notre Dame community. Throughout the concert the crowd was reminded of the need to continue supporting African relief programs. A slide show featured during the main act contained graphic shots of famine victims mixed In with shots of healthy residents from around the world. During the Intermission, RASTA members participated In a bread­breaking ceremony on stage in an effort to remind the audience of the real pur­pose of the concert. 
The concert itself raised over $4,000 for African famine relief. Last year's RASTA concert also successfully raised thousands of dollars for the victims of famine In Africa. It is unfortunate that such a valuable organization has become the victim of the administration's decision-making process. While I was aware of illegal alcohol consumption at the first RASTA concert, it was no greater than, for example, the level of alcohol consumption at the 1984 Mock Conven­tion. The Mock Convention, however, has not been cancelled as a student event. In addition, as co-founder of RASTA. I helped organize an extensive student se­curity force which actively maintained or­der during the concert, We were aware of the need to follow University regulations, and we did our best to promote order at the concert. 
Last year, I returned to Notre Dame to attend the second annual RASTA festival. While I did notice alcohol being confis­cated by security, once again, It was not any worse than that at the Mock Conven­tion or other student events such as pep rallies and SYR's. While I understand that illegal drugs were allegedly confiscated at last year's concert, these were surely isolated occurences. Neither I nor anyone else in my group of friends witnessed the use of drugs In Stepan Center. Even If students were caught with illegal drugs and/or alcohol, wouldn't the prudent response have been to subject those in­dividuals to disciplinary action instead of cancelling the entire event? The decision to cancel RASTA seems especially unfair In light of less serious measures -If any taken against the Mock Convention, pep rallies, and SYR's where University regu­lations were and continue to be broken. 
When I founded RASTA, I did so with the intention that the group would exhibit the moral and spiritual ideals that make Notre Dame a great University. By the time I graduated, RASTA had grown to 

Doonesbury 
a/HAT IS MYCANPIPACYABOUF 
IT's ABOUTA DRJJG-FREE AME3RJCA 1 IT'S AL-?0 ABOUT 




P.O.BoxQ 
encompass dozens of students commit­ted to the cause of ending hunger by promoting globaljustice. Hundreds of Et· hiopian children benefitted from the money raised, and a movement had begun at Notre Dame which would have continued to generate a spiritual and cul­tural awareness among the Notre Dame student body. 
There are many losers because of the decision to cancel RASTA. The adminis­tration lost a group ofstudents dedicated to the very values upon which Notre Dame was founded. The students lost a group which fostered an awareness that we have a moral obligation to aid those in need. The biggest losers, however, are the famine victims In Africa who will receive thousands of dollars less food aid this year. While famine victims frequently fall prey to the process of Institutionalized political decision-making exhibited by na­tional governments and global institu­tions, I would have hoped that Notre Dame would be more sensitive to the cries of the needy In Africa. 
Paul J. Komyatte Class of 1985 

Reflection groups help seniors evaluate years 
Dear Editor: 
For many students here at Notre Dame, college life is coming to an end. New pre­ssures and new options seem to present themselves at every turn. Amid this flurry of questions is an opportunity to step back and look at where we've come and where we're going. 
Senior reflection groups consist of twelve students and a faculty host who gather once a month starting after Octo· ber break. Each meeting, a few members are in charge of preparing a meal for the group and lea~ing a discussion on any of a number of topics, ranging from careers and family to life under the Dome. 
"With all the competition around here, people tend to overlook the deeper parts of themselves," said Mary Ann Roemer, the CSC coordinator of Senior Reflection Groups. "There's not enough coming to· gether in a non-academic atmosphere on this campus." Tony Haske, a group member from last year, recalls, "It was a great way to get to know people that you never got a chance to meet." 
"I think what made our group so suc­cessful," said Mimi Graham, another former member, "was that the people were so diverse. It made for great con­versation. Everyone had their own opinion, including Professor (Steve) Fal­lon and his wife. We all respected each other, but at the same time, we had some really good arguments." 
The Senior Reflection Groups are as successful as the members want them to be. "It's a great opportunity," says Roemer, "but it takes commitment, they'll get out what they put into it." 
Second semester senior year Is a period of many emotions, .and over the years, many seniors have taken advantage of this opportunity. "The timing was per­fect," says Graham. "Not only was it a nice break just to get away for while, I think in many cases it was even therapeutic." 
Mike Lochhead Margy Pfiel Notre Dame students 

..... .......... I ......... --.. -.-..-...... _ _ _ _
.J ..... J'\. '"".,., --------:-_:-.7."""77 :.:----:::-.::_-..: :_-------------_-_.. .. .. ...-...-.-.-.-.... 
00 ,. .~ ~ ,o,O .. .. '• O ..... O • I 

VieWP-Oint Wednesday, October 8, 
1986, -page 6 


Hope flourishes despite continuing violence 
It is a typical Sunday afternoon for me: these past few months in many ways of its being accurate or not. The at­who barely have enough to buy bread 
catching up on some writing. reading. resembles the bloody repression which tempted assassination of Pinochet is a were willing to give of their very sub­and reflecting in the hot sun (about 80 followed the coup d'etat in I973. Under concrete example of this incredulity. stance. degrees) on our front lawn. Nancy is in­a state of siege, such as the current one Since everyone understands that the dic­Before concluding the rebuttal of the side lunching with her friend Leonarda, (delcare the day after the attempt on tator had everything to gain from the at­objection to the Dickens' analogy, I must whose advice for my upset stomach has Pinochet's life), more and more people tack given that the anniversary parade include one more related example of this 
me outside drinking some kind of bitter mysteriously "disappear" from their was scheduled to take place only two days glimmer of hope amidst the shadows of herb tea instead ofjoining them for lunch. homes and are found dead somewhere later, everybody has their own interpre­darkness. Last month I read an article You see, last Tuesday I made this great a few days later. Such was the case with tation of what really happened. Without which described how several teenagers carrot and onion soup (my specialty) Jose Carrasco, the editor of a leading op­delving into the details of such alternative offered to donate skin to reconstruct Car­which, unbeknowist to me, had gone bad position magazine, whose assassins expiations or citing other instances of in­men Gloria's face, despite the risks, the by last night when I served myself to a pumped him with a total of twenty-two credulity, it suffices to say that fewer and pains, and the scars which such dona­huge bowl of it. At 6:00 this morning. my bullets, thirteen of which (one for each fewer people believe what they read tions involve. "Those thin pieces of flesh," stomach vetoed the proposition. I tell this year since the coup?) formed a diabolical anymore. writes a columist, "became an invincible story only to demonstrate how it is that crown in his skull. Ironically, he and two So where is the hope? And in what and defense...more solid than any wall thus we Chilean Associates get sick. Contrary others were found the same days that in whom may we believe? I was losing far raised in Chile. For this reason, as to popular belief, it is not because the thousands of cheering Chileans paraded much sleep myself asking these ques­long as we have young people in Chile food is "Latin American" and therefore is in front of General Pinochet to celebrate tions when, in a confirmation meeting. a with that same spirit, we may trust in a inherently dangerous. Many times, our the thirteenth anniversary of the coup. A stranger arrived saying that the women's better and more humane future." ailments are simply the price we pay for Chilean friend, who had passed by the group of Penalolen was conducting a Not for quite a while have Chileans stupidity. parade, sadly remarked to me, "If they massive raffle to help pay for the walked with such fear and sensed such 
only knew what they were celebrating!" astronomical hospital expenses of Car­helplessness before the tragic crisis of
Gib Gailius 

Continuing with the attack on the Dick­men Gloria Quintana. As the U.S. press morality which plagues their society. But guest column ens analogy, the same person might add, reported, Quintana is the teenager who looking beyond this frightly scene reveals "And in what sense is this the 'age of was burned together with the late Rodrigo a delicate but striking panorama of ordi­belief'?" The objection is a valid one. Not Rojas early in July by army soldiers. The nary men and women planting the seeds since the coup, people tell me, has there raffle campaign's objectives, however, of solidarity among their suffering brot­"It was the best of times, it ws the worst existed such an atmosphere of incredulity did not end there. The idea was to allow hers and sisters. As these seeds sproud of times...it was the epoch of belief. it as for what the government or its sup­the people in our sector to hear the truth and flower, so does the hope that in the 
r 
was the epoch of incredulity." If Dickens porters print or say. Under the state of and to participate in a Christian response midst of the worst of times, the best of 
r were here in Santiago today he'd probably siege, only the moderates in the oppos-• to an act of un-christian brutality. The times just may be at hand. make the same observation. but anyone tion may publish their magazines and the desire of the youth in my confirmation who has been reading the newspaper radio stations exercise extreme caution group to help in the campaign was itself Oib Oailius is presently serving as a ffolylately might be tempted to object, "What's in the selection of news stories for fear inspirational. But what inspired me most Cross Associate in Santiago, Chile. Cur­
'the best' about these times?" In fact, of being shut down. Thus, whatever news was the generosity of the people in this rently, seven Notre Dame students from many Chileans who can remember back comes from the "official" news channels poor neighborhood where I live. Once in­the classes of 1984 and /985 are serving that far are saying that the violence of is often called into question, regardless formed of the nature of the raffle, people with him. 


P.O.BoxQ Banning 'Louie, Louie' , University must focus is only the beginning
must encourage this move towards pos­itive change. The University of Notre Dame, has, by 
r 
r on alcohol awareness 
virtue ofits religious foundations, a moral Last Saturday's victory over Purdue was strains of "Louie Louie" were absent from
r 
obligation to positive change in the world. rather satisfying. Unfortunately, this sit­the Irish victory over Purdue
r 
The most direct way to affect the world uation was marred. No, I'm not referring There are several problems created by
r 
Dear Editor:

r is through the graduates of the institu­to the alcohol on the campus or rowdy the baning of "Louie, Louie." First of all, I recently returned to the campus for
f tion, the "Notre Dame" family. To legis­students at the game. What was wrong it may cause the band to carefully evalu­r the Michigan football game and was very late a moral problem away does not pro­was what was not there, "Louie, Louie." 
ate its music selection from now on. For r surprised by the direction the University vide change and does not provide instance, does "Tequila" promote or con­
r was heading. I believe in the "Notre education. This type of legislation does done the consuption of alcohol? Does
John Farley
r Dame" family and the extent to which the promote resistance. Resistance is not the "Runaround Sue" support sexual promis­university has the moral obligation to set goal, real positive change is the goal. Free guest column cuity? Is the "18 I 2 Overture" an anthem standards for the catholic community choice towards the change makes the which condones violience in general and 
r 
and the world, but the key is the setting change last. I studied these principles in war in particular?of standards not the legislation of stand­class at Notre Dame and would hope that Those of you with resonably decent 
ards. The duty of a moral member of a the school's own actions would also fol­memories may recall that the band per­Second, who will pay for all of the community is to point out the world's low what it preaches. formed "Louie, Louie" at the Michigan counselling it will take to remove the im­faults and describe the means to alter the The University approaches alcohol con­game as a welcoming anthem for new moral valves that those songs promote
f moral wrong. Real change does not occur sumption (and many other moral issues) coach Lou Holtz during it's halftime show. from the heads of Notre Dame students? through legislation, but through a revela­from the stand point that legislating a The performance received an enthusi­Third, will the next step be to monitor tion of the truth behind the moral inequi­problem will remove the problem. This astic response from the crowd that day. students' musical listening habits to weed ty. The impetus, then, of Notre Dame's neither mirrors the world nor does it However, not everyone was smiling at the out immoral music? work towards altering a wrong should be produce change. The students are faced the band's performance. Granted, the case of "Louie, Louie" is in education, discussion and communi­with interpreting rules in only the context just one incident. But it is part of a na­cation. of the campus of Notre Dame, where A woman from Rockville, Maryland wit­tional trend which is quite disturbing. 
every football weekend is a hypocrisy to nessed the band's performance and was The banning or rating of books and 
When I returned to the campus, I picked the alcohol rules of the institution. shocked. Why? Were the trombones out records because of morally offensive con­up an Observer and read an ad by the The real world does not act the way the of step? Did the trumpets miss a high tent is on the rise. What does this mean? students of two dorms on campus plead­Notre Dame rules would predict. The real note? No. The woman was dismayed be­It means that a small group of small­ing the administration to discuss some world does not believe that the actual en­cause the lyrics of the song in the I 960's mined people want to dictate what is good 
judgement involving two resident assis­tity of keg. in and of itself, produces a referred to sexual intercourse. and what is bad. The frightening thing is tants. This was a signal, taking out ads psychology that forces humans to drink Not one to innocently stand by as the that they get away with it and are ac­to request discussion implies lack ofcom­until they can no longer make judge­morals of the Catholic youth of the nation quiesced by acts such as the banning of munication. Then I discussed the incident ments. This is no way improve the capa­were being corrupted, the woman com­"Louie, Louie" at Notre Dame. with several students. Each student had bility of Notre Dame students to make municated her shock to Notre Dame's The United States traditionally supports 
a slightly different story, but all had free choices in judgement situations. I president Fr. Ted Hesburgh. such ideas as freedom of speech and ex­knowledge of the incident and were more hope the Administration of Notre Dame pression. When these rights are infringed than willing to voice their opinion on is not hiding behind moral obligations to Apparently, our president was equally upon by a vocal group of holier-than­other topics. People tend to blow steam protect endowment funds from legal sickened by the moral atrocity which was thous, action must be taken to protect in this situation, so I only looked for judgements and law suits. This would be committed on national television. Word the rights we cherish as Americans. The similarities, there were plenty. This was a moral wrong and a tactical mistake as was sent from on high to Band Director "Louie, Louie" incident isjust a symptom r a second signal, the potential for a unified well. For there are no winners in this sit­James Philips that the band could no of a national disease which is worse than 
~ 
resistance to the administration. This po­uation, the University and the students longer play the immoral tune. Although almost any other. This disease kills a little r tential will only remain at rest if the stu­both lose. undoubtedly this seemed a bit ludicrous part of all of us, our creativity. dents are complacent about the situation. to Phillips, who like most people can't The students must require some discus­Eric Wiechart even understand the lyrics of the song. John Farley is enrolled in the Freshmen
r 
sion with the Adminisration. The alumni Class of 1984 he complied and thus the haunting Year of Studies.
r 
r r 
~ General Board


Ihe Observer
r 
r Editor-In-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ....... ......... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the stuoents of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor .......... .. Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton r and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone
r 
their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free r expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~ 
~-----------------------~--­
Wednesday, October 8, 1986, -page 7

MAUREEN DEVLIN  representing  the  Student Gov­ other cultures, and why he feels  
features writer  ernment,  the Student Activities  the festival is inportant for Notre  
Board,  the  Black Cultural Arts  Dame students in particular.  
Students have more to celebrate this week than the end  Council, and the International Students Organization, who all  "This is definitely the most monocultural university I've ever  
of the first round of exams as  joined  forces  this  summer  to  dealt with,  which is due to the  
Notre Dame hosts the first an­nual Multicultural Fall Festival. The campus-wide event with the theme "Around the World in Seven Days," is a dream come true for Adele Lanan, assistant director for the Office of Student  begin work on the project. Lanan praised the cooperation and creativity of the students and expressed appreciation for the supportive response that the or­ganizers received from campus  tradition of the place. Notre Dame started out as a minority university aimed at educating its own people. That rich tradition continues today, which accounts for the homogenous nature of the students here. The  
Affairs. Lanan came up with the idea for the celebration last year, after reading several articles and attending conferences dealing with the subject. As she points out, multicul­turalism is prominent on most  leaders in the planning of the various activities and attractions. "Our goal has been to achieve a real sense of community on campus by getting people from different areas involved on a common project. The support  percentaAe of foreign students may be small, but that just means it is up to us to give them a forum to tell their story. The polite foreigner works at blend­ing in, not at standing out," said Bellis.  
large university campuses,  but  we've  gotten  so  far  has  been  
has  not  been  emphasized  at  really inspiring;  now it is up to  Bellis added that it is difficult  
Notre Dame. One reason for this  the faculty and students to take  to recognize that the student sit­ 
oversight  is  that organizations  advantage of the many opportu­ ting next to us in class is from  
here sponsor separate functions  nities for learning and sharing  another  country  with  different  
relating  to  multiculturalism;  the week provides," said Lanan.  cultural backgrounds,"The Multi­ 
Lanan had hoped a  large-scale  The daily "fireside chats" held  cultural Festival serves the pur­ 
festival  would  more  effectively  in the ISO lounge are designed  pose  of  celebrating  the  
instill in students an awareness  to encourage faculty/student in­ uniqueness  of  our  own  stu­ 
of the significant influences of  teractions in an informal and per­ dents."  
other cultures and also promote  sonal setting outside ofthe class­ Lisa Boykin, one of the student  
greater campus unity.  room.  Each discussion focuses  organizers,  emphasized  this  
"Learning  about  different  on  a  different  geographical  goal  as welL"If this celebration  
countries is very important,  es­ region,  with  faculty  members  could convey just one message,  
pecially on a campus like Notre  and  their  spouses  sharing  in­ it would be the tremendous con­ 
Dame with  its diversity of stu­ sights about  their experiences  tribution  that  multiculturalism  
dents," said Lanan, referring to  abroad.  provides.  This aspect of Notre  
the fact that Notre Dame attracts  Dr.  James  Bellis,  associate  Dame truly enhances our com­ 
students from  over  64 foreign  professor of anthropology,  will  munity and makes it the special  
,:ountries.  be  meeting  with  students  on  place  that it is.  One does not  
The driving force  that made  Friday to relate his experiences  need to travel abroad to discover  
this dream a reality is the efforts  in Africa.  Bellis commented on  the things that have been right  
of  a  handful  of  students  the necessity of learning about  here all along."  

Today's events:  
Lithography Display  Snite Museum  9 a.m. til closing  
Display/St. Francis Shoppe  Library Foyer  9 a.m. -4 p.m.  
Ethnic Clubs  Fieldhouse Mall  Noon -1 p.m.  
Fireside .vith Daher  ISO Lounge  4:30p.m.  
Multicultural Dinners  Dining Halls  4:45 -6:45 p.m.  
Student Reception  Snite Museum  7:30 -9 p.m.  
Movie: "Running Brave"  esc  9 p.m.  

'Can ya spare a few pence?' 

Mark McGlaughlin 
London Calling 
Mark McLaughlin 
features writer 
Editor's note: Columns by two Notre Dame students currently enrolled in foreign studies programs will be alternating each week. Mark McGlaughlin is spending this semester in England through the College ofArts and Letters' London program. Mary Berger, whose column will debut next Wednesday, is a sophomore participating in the Angers; France foreign study program. 
Well, while most of you reading this are probably at this very moment sampling some of the fine cuisine served up at the dining hall, we Londoners are fighting each other for stove space in a rather messy 
kitchen in the West Two Hotel basement. There's no "all you can eat" policy here. Most of us have lost weight. 
It's not that they don't have food here. It's expensive, though. Ham­burger goes for about $1.50 a pound. A two-liter bottle of coke costs $1.40. Steak? -you must be joking. Except for an occasional night out at someplace like the Hard Rock (which will set you back at least $7.50), we don't get tons of food to eat. 
What's amazing is that we can still manage to live on two pounds a day, that's about three dollars at recent exchange rates. That won't buy you filet mignon, but it does't mean porridge and oatmeal all the time either. It just takes is a little bit of planning to make ends meet. 
So why are there beggars? 
At just about every tube station on the Underground there are bus­kers, street musicians who play for money. There is a 50 pound fine for· busking. but they do it anyway. Most of them are bad enough players to deserve the fine. They earn only a few pence, or a pound if they're lucky. 
Twice now, while coming out of the Queensway station on my way 
• 

home, I have been accosted by the same 15-year-old girl. She's usually dressed in a beat-up blackjacket and some second-hand blouse and jeans combo. Apparently she does well at Queensway as many people from other parts of town come out to the various ethnic restaurants in the area. She's had a different child with her each time she's talked to me -partners, I think, since she doesn't look old enough to have a ten-year-old child. Anyway, she walks up to me and says "can ya 
spare a few pence? Got to feed the kids, y'know.. " 
The English press and many people refer to Britain as "the welfare state." There is apparently a more extensive welfare system than in America, and medicine is specialized. So why are there still beggars? 
We have been told not to give money to beggars: "others will con­gregate around you ifyou give to one, they will know you have money, or they might be working with a mugger confederate." We have also been warned about the "kids line", which many of the beggars use as a ploy to dupe unsuspecting tourists. We have heard that most of the people who beg are alcoholics or drug addicts, and are afraid to go to the welfare system because they will be forced to give up their vices. 
Of course, we listen and do not give. 
I can't help but feel a little guilty about the whole thing, though. Here I am, coming off a train holding a pass worth 18 pounds, in my London Fog trenchcoat and penny loafers, back from a West End theater production that cost at least five pounds to see, and I am reduced to saying "Sorry, I can't help." I feel guilty, though the feeling usually passes and I don't lose sleep over it. I know she's a con artist and takes newcomers like me for all we're worth, but I still want to give. 
The existence of beggars in London is something that most of us Notre Dame students have to put up with. Some of us feel guilty, most do not. The non-guilty argue that they would rather pay for their own alcohol than someone else's. Besides, it's unsafe to show money in a big city like London. I agree with them, but it doesn't make me feel better. 
What's funny is that if I were home, I wouldn't give it a second thought. I'd take off and say "Go away", or something more rude, and figure that I was dealing with just another wino. But being a foreigner gives me a fear of not doing as the Romans do, of committing some faux pas so vile that I will be scorned by all those around me. There's a desire to try to make a good impression, especially with the "Ugly American" stereotype hanging over my head. This is silly, considering that the Londoners ignore the beggars just as I would in America. But I think that the British see us as wealthy (we paid for our plane fare over here, right?), and I feel like a first-class heel for not co.1tributing to my local beggar. 
The reason I am so annoyed at the existence of beggars has nothing to do with their reasons for begging. I think it's more like a reaction of, "Why are you giving me this guilt?" And the guilt isn't even based on money. If I don't feel an obligation to give to American beggars; why should I feel one here? 
The guilt stems from the hypocrisy, the blatant falseness, of saying "I can't help" when I know damn well I can. At least the beggar might really need to beg. But both she and I know that I have more money than I need. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 8, 1986, -page 8 
left unmarked in front of the We were too panicked to score." "He hit it to me, and I shot, Parker was upset after the goal, headed the ball into the Each side exchanged close but the defender came out of the game with the officiating, which
Tie 

right side of the net. calls on offense, but neither wall and blocked it. I was called 25 fouls on Akron to Notre
continuedjrompage 12 

For McCourt, it was his 13th could score in the two ten-minute surprised because the wall Dame's six. midflelder Pat Nash, who headed goal of the season. periods. Notre Dame had the usually stays put." it to the right of Irish keeper The match went into overtime, best chance when an Akron Akron's transition game took "The refs didn't lose the game Hugh Breslin. The goal came at and both teams showed signs of defender · was whistled for over, and a Zip forward got off for us," said Parker. "Our players 
the 64:22 mark. The Irish duo· exhaustion. The Irish also had obstruction just outside the a shot with nine seconds left in just didn't overcome the inept­
of Randy Morris and McCourt trouble keeping posession of the penalty box with less than a min­the game. It sailed wide, and the ness of the refereeing." 
responded with the tying goal ball, partly due to the excitement ute to play. Irish had a tie. 
with just over I 0 minutes left in of the possibility of beating the "It was an indirect free kick," "The first ten minutes were too The Irish have a two-week 
the second half. Morris took a 13th-ranked team in the nation. said Guignon. "I told Randy easy," said Akron head coach break before they face 
pass on right wing and centered "We were fatigued a little bit," (Morris) to hit it too me with 30 Steve Parker on the game. "After nationally-ranked Connecticut 
it chest-high. McCourt, who was said Grace. "We couldn't counter. seconds left on the clock. that we just went downhill." on Oct. 19. 
The Obsenrer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Obsenrer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Coflge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds 
characters per day. 
MUST SELL-Round-trip ticket to LOS ARE YOU FROM OREGON? PITT GA's ....... 2 ofthem have my name HEY DAVEMAN KEEP THE WINDOWNOTICES ANGELES for Oct. break. Best offer. Then you can Imagine what It means PERSONALS AND MEMO
on them! II you have them call Jim at OPEN, THE BOARD £1674 to have your dad fly all the way In and HOW ABOUT THE
2443$$$$ CLEAN. 
have him see a NO football game. Halp BUNKBEDS IN THE BATHROOM FOR TYPING AVAILABLE 81 FORD GRANADA 6 CYL AIR HAVE ANY EXTRA PITT GA'S? I MUST N AND J? SAY HI TO FATHER 287-4082 HAVE 2. WILL PAY $$$$$$$$$$ ETC. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, 
me out by selling me your AIR FORCE 
POWER EXTRA CLEAN NO RUST JOEBOY. LOVE, CHICK (NANCY KEL· 
GAl Ask for Mike at 2443. 
CALL x3834. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE
$2950 272-6890 LV).
BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. I naed 1 Pitt tlx call Dan x4101
Wordproceaalng resumes, etc. 1974 VW Bus and 1974 VW WANTED: 2 PITT GA'S. 683-3068 Mark your calendar,SENIORSIII Typeset quality. 287-9024. Squareback. Both have good engines, Going to, near, or thru Atlanta? Thursday, October 9 Is Senior Claaa
I NEED PITT GA'S OR STUDENT TIX 
PITT GAa FOR SALE.2n-0296 Desparetely need a ride lor Fall Break! Wordproceaalng-Typing CALL GARY 2252 Call Rob at 1546. Will more than share 
bodies, Interiors, little rust. Depend· Night at 
able student cars. Call 239-7638 days,. BARNABY'S on Grape Road 272-8827 233-5652 nights. Highest offers. Naed 2 Air Force GA'a call Maryann expenaes. $5 for all the beverages and pizza you 283-4350 can consume 
VOl I need two Pitt GA'1. Call Steve, FALL FEST IS COMING. GET READY 
from 6:00PM to 9:00PM SAME-DAY TYPING 1850. Stud Tlx-AF, SMU, PS For Sale 255-TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. ND Pick-up 1508 THE FINALE IS THE GARDENS. Quick-Type, Inc. I NEED SIX PITT G.A.'S. CALL DOC 
Naed 2 student tickets for Pitt. Will 
£3380

277-1998 NEEDED 6 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL NUDISTSIATTENTION NUDISTS! (or sell my roommate's first-born lor BEVERLY AT 263-4173. anyone) Have 1 great party! Great
TICKETS 
them. Call Mark at 2339. 

need 2 PSU ttx will trade 2 AF GA'a music on a top professional sound TYPINGWORDPROCESSING or top all offara Ill mike • 2388 siii:'CiNo'2''A'F'sid.,_i;i·ch~i;~72:7849' ayatem. OJ with radlo,club and party I WILL BE KILLED BY ANGRY AND
SS I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S SS
CALL DOLORES 277-8131. experienceII The Commloloner of Fun IRRATIONAL PARENTS IF I DON'TDAN 3273 
Naed 2 PITT GA'a.Hava 1 AF GA and 237 01HIIBE A PARTY HERO 
FIND 2 PITT GA'S. PLEASE HELP!!! $$.Call Mark £1488. CHEAPLY CALL 237-0IH!!
NEED 2 PITT GA'S WILL PAYS$ CALL CALL CHRISTY x3834 OR 3831 Proleaalonal word proc:aulng and 15H IN A PANICII F~~mlly coming In from 
Jerwy and Ohio lor PITT GAME-NEED typing. Convenient locetlon on N.lron­
THANKS ST. JUDE wood. Call NICS 277-4220. THE DUDE HAS 6 PITT AND 8 AF GA'S. I'LL GIVE YOU BUNDLES OF CASH! 
SIX TIX-GAoSTUDI Staph 272-5417 
SENIORS: EXPLORE YOUR DESIRE HELPI P.W. Partnar(my boas) naeda 4 WHAT DID YOU HONESTLY THINK OF 
IF YOU'RE SERIOUS, CALL HIM. 232­lor AF GA's so If you ain't got 'am, TO LEARN, TO GIVE, TO GROW, AND
6153. NOBODY HAS EVER SEEN THE THE MUSIC AT YOUR LAST SYR? .. gat 'am cause (-above) call MikeGA & 2 student tickets lor Pitt Oct. 11. 
TO LOVE WITH HOLY CROSS AS· I love my job & my life II Call Joanne 
DUDE. HE MAKES NO EXCEPTIONS. . NOW CALL THE ONLY DJs THAT 3313 
SOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP· (716)837-9178 MATTER FOR THE NEXT ONE. WE'RE PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CON·
NEED AIRFORCE GA'S WILL PAY PROFESSIONALS. WE GUARANTEE NEED MORE PENN ST. GA'S, BAD I 
TACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (7949):
CASH CALL X2266 QUALITY. CALL PAT MURPHY277­LOST/FOUND I NEED PITT GAS & ALL HOME 
FRED 289-9225 JANE PIT2 (5521).GAMES.272-6306 
3687 TITO HIZON277-0973 DON Help I I naed 4 tlx to Air Force game. SEYMOUR263-3675
Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB· BIG SS 4 PITT STUOOA'S X-4280 
Will pay SSSI Mary 277-6033 MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet be­NEED 2 PITT TIX EVEN WORSE I FRED Ride needed this Frt., Oct. 10, to
Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday tween Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at ANSWER MY PRAYERS end sell me 
289-9225 I need 4 Pitt GA's ·John 283-1722 Rosemont Horizon or Chicago area.
5pm-2am: Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 1712 lor positive I.D. 2 GA's to the AF game. Call me etar­Can leave anytime Fri. P.M. Please call 
4pm-10pm.nally grateful. But please, call me, Please Please Please Sara at 4188 or Mary at 2804. 
I NEED MY BACKPACK IIIII II you find Mary (after 8 PM) 283-3090. Sell me 2 Pitt student tlx "WANT TO WRITE A BOOK"? I NEED 
a red (or die) LIVE AT EDDIE'S RESTUARANT (on
KREEGER & SONS backpack 

HELP!! 15 years of study has goneplease call Faith Ellen at 232-5743. I NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.s. PLEASE But at least your wallet will be fatter Into data & research. Subject Ironwood near Edison) DAN KEUSAL$SNEED 2 GAs FOR AIR FORCE. CALL 
CHRIS-1107$$
Thanks. CALL MELISSA 283-3848. when you pass away... Acoustic GultarNocals TONIGHT 8-10 
dlelihutrltlon. Would like underclas­
Call Marty at 234-1673 alter 9:00 P.M. Call 232-5861 for more Info. I NEED AIRFORCE GA'S. WILL PAY 
smen, graduate student or faculty FOUND!! KEYS, GLASSES, CAL­NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-Iamlly'sllrst 
member talented In writing. Reply to: CULATORS, BOOKS ... STILL LOCKED visit CALL 272-3463 alter 9:30 TOP DOLLAR! 
Reminder:

NO Boxholder. P.O. Box 33, Osceola, OUT OF YOUR ROOM? GETTING WET call: SCOTT 277-3786 DEADLINE FOR URBAN PLUNGEIndiana 46561 
APPLICATIONS PITT GA TIX NEEDED. WILL OFFEREVERY TIME IT RAINS BECAUSE YOU PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STUDENT DRUIDS ARE COMING 
CAN'T FIND YOUR UMBRELLA? TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE! I NEED to worship at Stonehenge. They would IS FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10
"Why did Babe shoot Zachary?"
TOP DOLLAR $$$$$ 
CHECK THE LOST AND FOUND OF­'EMIIIIII £234-4642 OR 239-5303 ASK also like to see the Fighting Celtic 3:00P.M. AT C.S.C
"Cause she didn't like his looks. shecall: SCOTT 277-3786
• 
FICE!! FIRST FLOOR OF LAFORTUNE, FOR TB peoples destroy the barbarian cadets just didn't like his stlnkln looks." CALL 239-7943 FOR MORE INFO OPEN MONDAY THRU FRIDAY, 8:0D-of Air Farce ... 
These and other serious philosophical 
12:00 AND 1:OD-5:00 Please sell me two GAs and help a thoughts In CRIMES OF THE HEART,HELP A SOUTHERNER MY BROT·
great religious cause. HEY DAVEMAN ARE YOU EVER HERS ARE COMING ALL THE WAY 
Oct. 8 thru 12, O'Laughlln Aud. LOST: Radio Shack calculator. Need 5 Alrlorce GAs Family coming
II Call Andy at 283-1650 GOING TO COME DOWN TO THE FROM MURPHY NC TO SEE THE AIR 
THIRD FLOOR? BY THE WAY, ARE FORCE GAME.NEED 2 GA'Sfound, please call James at x1150 from Buffalo,NY will pay cash! 
................................................................ 
THE BUNKBEDS IN THE BATHROOM BAD.CALL DAN 3262 OR 3261 THERN NJ BACK TO NO AFTER 
PLEASE CALL Pat 289-4635 ENDED HELPII I NEED A RIDE FROM NOR­
" LOST: BLUE AND GOLD NO BOOK· NEED 4 PITT GA'S IN THE WORST FOR N&J? LOVE RED (CA GAL) BAG •• CONTENTS: NOTEBOOK, NEED SMU WAY.HAVE 1 PITT AND 1 AF STUD I MEET
DESPERATELY 6 BREAK. CAN YOU
4 PITT GA'S FOR SALE best offer byFOLDER, CALCULATOR, TEXTBOOK, GA'S...CALL NANCY, 3829 ANYWHERE IN NJ. CALL FRANK 1502 
TO SELL. MARK 1666. ABSOLUTE KOSHERNESS Dahllng,
3 p.m. Thursday £3482 put down your Tarah, grab your beanie 
•• WHEN: IB-2116 •• REWARD: $50.00 I NEED GA's FOR PITT CALL MIKE £ I NEED SOME PITT GA'S WILLING TO and come to Stepan Synagogue for FOR NOTES FOLDER $100.00 PAY SSSSS PLEASE CALL DON X2266 some loxard bagels and other Inter­ETC." WHERE: NORTH DINING HALL NEED STU!GA TIX
AND 1658 2 GUYS NEED RIDE TO BOSTON FOR
PENN STATE 
national treats at the Taste of Nations PATTY 284-5199.
FOR EVERYTHING NO QUESTIONS 

OCTOBER BREAK. WILLING TO LV ASKED •• CALL: MIKE MELIA 329 DESPARATELY NEED 3 PENN ST. 
Saturday from 8-1 :00. FRI.OR SAT.. WILL MORE THANZAHM HALL 283-1111 TICKETS, STUDENT OR GA. FAMILY SS WANTED SS PENN STATE GA's 
TOM £283-1310 AIR FORCE! SHARE EXPENSES.CALL X2573 OR ?COMO ESTAS? Va al "Taste of Na­IS COMING FOR BIRTHDAY. PLEASE 
In a panic! Need 3 GA's X2656 festtvo Saturday 8:00.
tion" en at Please call Usa 284-4276.
Found: set of keys. Room 202 and mall CALL MARY, 272-5783. 
Leave the Tequila at home, but bring IM DRIVING TO MINNEAPOLIS FORkey. On South Send Tribune key 
your sombrero. Slnceremente, MY BOSS FROM HOME WILL PAY BREAK-NEED RIDE TO OR VICINITY? Speedy G. 
chain. Found In CompMath building I have many bros and sisters coming 
terminal room. If they're yours please lor A-F game!! NEED TIX! PLEASE 
YOU BIG BUCKS FOR YOUR PITT OR CALL SUZETTE 233-5396.
call 2129 to claim. HELP ME! CALL MARK AT 
AIR FORCE TICKETS (STUDENT OR WANTED 
CIAO BABY CHOW BABY!!!!!!!!! Live

4302!SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS LOST: GOLD WATCH WITH CLIP 
GA'S) PLEASE CALL 283-2493, JOHN. BUSINESS CAREERS FORUM fast, die young, wear clean underwear 
Listen to diverse speakers from the and go to the Taste of Nations on Sat­SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is business world urday at Stepan Center. 
DIAMONDS ON DIAL.VALUABLE 
PRIMARILY AS KEEPSAKE­

HELP parents coming and I have no Have 2 Air Force GA's. Need 2 or 4 now hiring children's ski Instructors give advice on business careers
DECEASED SISTER'S WATCH. 

tickets, they will suck out my liver If SMU GA's. Will trade andlor buy. Call for the winter season. Salary plus Wednesday evening at 7 ONLY THREE MORE DAYS,SENIORS!!
MOREAU HALL-REGINA 

I don't gel2 or 4 GA's for AIRFORCE: 1-609-354-0227. room & board. Contact Martha Mandel at the Library auditorium
HALL.REWARD. CALL SR. MARIA 

CALL JEFF £1560 or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-2911. All are welcome
284-4490 

I NEED 1 OR 2 PITT GA'SII 'RENTS Sponsored by ND Management Club THREE DAYS.
ONLY MORE NEED 2 SMU GA's Call Karen 272-5783 WILLING TO PAY BIG$$, CALL MIKE HELP! NEED A RIDE TO PHILA AREA SENIORS!!
FOUND -pair of wire-rimmed sun­

Lots SSSS AT 1779!! AFTER AF GAME. WILL SHARE SIGN-UPS FORglasses outside the stadium after the 
................................................................ USUAL. CALL TED X4074. SENIORSI!!SENIORS!!!SENIORS!!! 
SENIOR REFLECTION GROUPS I need 3 ga's or student tlx torr Air Need 2 AF GA 's,call Rob 2355 Have you been wondering when you'll until Friday at the CSCMichigan game. In a brown case. Call 
£1206 to claim. 

Force game. Please call RJ at 2129. NEED RIDE TO MNPLS. 4 BREAK. get to use those Infamous Help! I need 4 Pitt GA's In a bad way. WILL PAY$. KATHY X2891 GOLD CARDS again?
Lost-To the girl who found my credit 

YOU WANT EM, I'VE GOT THEM! AIR $$$Involved. Merit 284-4298. Well, this Wednesday night (10-08-86) She B Bodaciouscards at the Michigan game, I naed 
FORCE TIX! 2 GAs & 3 STUDs Insist DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE TO Is Senior night at She B Live
i 
them. When you called I was buzzed on trade for 2 Penn or SMU GAs Chris Deperately need 2 andlor 4 GA tickets LloNYC FOR THREE LOVELY HANS HOUSE Karen Whalen puts the B Inand did not remember your name, so 
4335 for Pitt game. Please call Ludy or KT LADIES.LEAVE AFTER AIR FORCE, Your Gold Card will entitle you to 20% DB-5I don't know who to call. Please call at 289-3716 II you can help. WILL BAKE COOKIES FOR THE RIDE off the dinner check Happy 20th B-Day
me. Joe x2320 

I 
I NEED 2 PITT TIXII CALL KEVIN AT BESIDES SHARE DRIVING AND EX­and Half-Price Beverages 4006 OR 4277. I need 3 for Air Force please! Molly PENSES. PLEASE CALL PAT AT 3714. HANS HOUSE HANS HOUSE HANS L DB-5Hewlet ard calculator-SMC par­
284-5123. THANKS I HOUSElor roo1 ' name on back. If found HEY YOU • I'LL PAY MORE THANcall 28< 
EVERYONE ELSE FOR 2 OF YOUR Need 2 Tickets Need riders to Youngs. Ohio area for ST. JUDE 
PITT GA'S ASK FOR BILL OR LEAVE 11111 or 1t15 Fall Break. Call Elaine 264-5077. PLEASE ATTEND PROF. GRIFFITHS' 0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyrLost at l ' dinner In South Dining 
A MESSAGE 283 4052 Desperate: 232-5282 DISCUSSION ON "THEORY AND great In virtue and rich In miracles
Hall a blue denim jacket with a leather 
................................................................ Need ride to No. NJ for break. Janet TECHNIQUES OF BUDDHIST MEDITA· near kingdom of Jesus Christ, faithful 
LEVI tag. Greatly valued. Please call 

SELLING my PITT std tkt -Chrls272-284-4346. TION" TONIGHT AT 10:00 PM IN 341 Intercessor of all who Invoke your spe­Tara 272-5645. 
7649 (nights) O'SHAUGHNESSY. THIS EVENT IS cial patronage In time of naed, to you 
Need 4 Air Force GA's real bad call I NEED A RIDE!!! Driving to Boston FOR THEO MAJORS AND ALL OTHER I have recourse from the depth of my Two GA's needed lor PITT game-Call Greg-2549 on Sunday the 19th or Saturday night INTERESTED PERSONS. heart and humbly beg to whom God 288-6364 (Jens) the 18th? I will pay for gas If you can has given such power, to come to my
FOR RENT 
Need 2 GAs for Air Force get me there. Call Joe at 3338 If Inter­BUSINESS CAREERS FORUM assistance. Help me In my present and HAVE 4 AIR FORCE TIXS NEED 4 PITT Call Jim at 283-1874 ested. Wednesday at 7 urgent petition. In return I promise to TIXS, TRADE ONLY MIKE 277·4960 Library auditorium make your name known and cause
BED 'N BREAKFAST ROOMS FOR 

RIDERS NEEDED TO ANOOR FROM you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fat­PARENTS FOR NOVEMBER GAMES 
Parents want to party at ND, Need 4 2 PENN STATE GA'S NEEDED!!Piease NASHVILLE AREA TO SHARE EXP. hers, three Hall Marys and Glori as. ForAND SPECIAL WEEKENDS. (1·219­AF GA's and 6 SMU GA's. Call Dave call Jill at 272-4363 If you can help. LEAVE OCT 20 RETURN OCT 26 CALL Mind Your Own Business Society For nine consecutive days. Publication291-7153). 
at 2271 RICH X2024 Entrepreneurship and New Ventures must be promised. St. Jude pray for 
EXCHANGE 1 OR 2 S.M.U. GA'S FOR Oct. 8 Wed. 6:30 Chameleon rm. HCC. us and all who Invoke your ald. Amen. Think of the most beautiful girl In the PENN STATE GA'S. CALL 277 0526 Have you taken the Princeton Review? This Novena has never been known world, and then Imagine her In need Make blgtlme cash by selling me your to fall. THANK YOU ST. JUDE of two PENN STATE GA's, then you NEED 4 PITT GA'S and 2 Stud. Tlx Call book from II. call Mark at £4104. I DESPARATELY NEED RIDE TO understand my situation! Don't you John: £1750 PROVIDENCE OR EVEN BOSTON!
FOR SALE want to help her out? Call Janice at I need a ride to Dallas for October WILL SHARE NORMA L EXPENSES! GET PSYCHED 284-4095. Need 2 student tickets for Pitt. Will break.Call Andrew If you can help. PLEASE CALL 3478! St. Mary's soccer vs. Notre Dame 
sell my roommate's first-born for 1091. TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER · .............................................................. . them. Call Mark at 2339. ... Let's talk ..... Grace Hall Let's take It to 'em RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, RAMBO FANS! 
HELP WANTED. PART-TIME. COM­Debate .... Starts soon ..... FORMERLy COLOR CITY 272-5959. He needs three AIR FORCE GA's lm· Make sure my parents pay second se­PUTER STORE. CALL 277·5026. . ............................................................... mediately. Either catch him at the mester tuition so I can get out of this 
Men Interested In experiencing life In ATTENTION: Tonight Is senior night 1980 Honda Civic Wagon, Air, weight room (you'll recognize him) or place. Sell me 2 GAs for Penn State Publisher seeks part-time assistant. a Benedictine monastery during all or at H.l.'s In Niles, 8:30 to close. 21 ID AMf'M,5-speed, No Rust, Very Rell-call him at 2274 and ask for Paul (his so they can experience NO football. 232-3134 alter 3 p.m. part of fall break call Br. Mark 239-required. 
Call Mark at 2339. 6187.
able, 51,650, 233-9947.••• , .•••••••• re~l na":'e). 
The Observer Wednesday, October 8, 1986, -page 9 
Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting for all mem­bers tonight at 6:30 at the St. Joseph's Lake boathouse. Plans for the trip will be finalized. All are welcome. -The Observer 
Two Hydroroblcs classes are being sponsored by NVA this semester. Monday and Wednesday evenings, participants meet at 6:45 for an hour of aerobics in the water. Tuesday and Thursday at 12:15 p.m. there is a half-hour class. Call NVA at 239-6100 or stop by one of the classes for more details. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced deadlines for registra­tion for a number of upcoming NVA events. Today is the deadline for the following events on the NVA calendar. VOLLEYBALL: tournaments for men, women, faculty and staff. RACQUETBALL: singles' tournaments for· men, women and grad-faculty, best-of-three games to 21. BADMINTON: open, double-elimination tournament. equi­pmemt and rules provided. CO-REC BASKETBALL: five men and five women, all men must be from same hall, $I 0 entry fee for officials. 
Information and registration for these and other NVA events may be obtained by stopping by the NVA office in the ACC. or by calling NVA at 239-6100. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team defeated Illinois State last night by the scores of 15-4, 15-13 and 15-3. That is the team's seventh straight win which ties the school record set in 1982. -The Observer 
Dick Dull has resigned as athletic director of the University of Maryland, the first casualty of the campus upheave! fol­lowing the cocaine-induced death of Len Bias. While contend­ing that he had been contemplating resigning as long as two years, Dull conceded that the Bias incident and the resulting investigations accelerated his decision. -The Observer 
The squash club will hold an informal practice session on Thursday from 4-7 p.m. at the ACC courts. Players will have a chance to become acquainted and play some pickup games. All interested are invited to attend. For more information call Bill Mapother at 283-3666. 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third noor of Lafortune Student Cen­ter before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Ob­server 
SMCtakes one of two 
By JANE SHEA Sports Writer 
This weekend Saint Mary's soc­cer team had a loss and a win bringing their record to 3-8. 
The Belles began the weekend with a loss to Wilmington College on Saturday, 7-3. 
The score was 5-I at the half. The only Saint Mary's goal was scored by senior captain, Mary Anne Perri, with an assist from sophomore Ellen Boyle. 
In the second half the Belles were able to getback in the game for a while behind goals from freshmen Caroline Knoll and Molly Meehan. 
"I was pleased to see the way . we rallied in the second half," said Head Coach John Akers. "We were very much back in the 
game."  
"After  the  two  goals,  Wil­ 
mington  became  a  little  ner­ 
vous."  


Organizational Meeting 
NOTRE DAME INVENTORS CLUB 
Thursday, October 9, 7:00pm 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
for more info CALL PROFESSOR NEE X7003 


21 I E. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7799 
THURSDAY: 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect itl 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 
4000 watts of sound 
Open 9:00pm -2:00am 
90(\ 

Go~ $1.00 off entrance fee 

is looking for dedicated students wanting to get involved in college journalism. Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 
Assistant News Editor 
Applications are due by Friday. Contact Mark Pankowski, Tripp Baltz or Lynne Strand at 239-5313 or come up to the Observer office on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
THE LAW CARAVAN is COMING 
Thursday, Oct. 9 12-4 pm at Stepan Center 
SponaoNd loy t:1w Na-IIIIC PN-Law Socltlty 

If Th~ Won't Tell You About It, Then You Know It Must Be Great. 
Purple Passion. Out of the bathtub, into the can, and onto the shelves of your favorite store. Discover it for yourself. 
Wilmington was able to shut the Belles down, however, and scored two more goals and to win decisively 7-3. 
One factor affecting play was the two large puddles on the slip­pery field that forced mistakes on both teams . 
In addition, Saint Mary's played a well-respected team that includes two all-America players and a player recruited from Norway. 
Wilmington plays host to the National Championships and is already in the final four. 
Sunday the Belles had better luck with a 3-2 victory over the College of Mount Saint Joseph. 
"We dominated most of the play." said Akers. "Junior Landry Clement showed a lot ofstrength and ability on both offense and defense." 
Saint Mary's started early with a goal by senior captain Mary Anne Perri, who got an assist from junior Karen C. Chandler. 
Perri scored again in the second half and freshman Coleen Keefe later scored the winning goal. 
"I am pleased with the team," said Akers. "We have many players besides the starting line­up who contribute to different positions." The Belles picked a tough schedule this season, but the players have responded well. They have played two na­tionally ranked teams, Michigan State and Kalamazoo. and several other strong clubs. 
"If we would have picked an easier schedule," said Akers. "I know we would have had a win­ning season." 
Wednesday Saint Mary's play Notre Dame for the second time this season. 
The Belles defeated them ear­lier in the year and both sides want to win. 
"Hopefully, our key players, senior Gloria Eleuteri, sopho­more Anne Szweda, and fresh­man Molly Meehan will be ready for a big game," said Akers. 
Catherine Ramsden is21! 
(So how old does that make Barb Zwickey?) 


Lanza uses talent and leadership to help Notre Dame line 
By KEVIN HERBERT games dating back to the begin­have been playing with decent "'The offensive linemen are all "'My inability to do the little Sports Writer 
ning of the 1984 season. continuity_ up front, but I have for Coach Yelevich. He is a tech­things on the field in a consistent not been as consistent as I nician whom we all respect alot. manner is a weak spot for me. Senior Chuck Lanza, the start­Coach Holtz would not have
should be. My technique is not consistent ing center for the Irish, has been "I think my pass blocking is brought him in here if he were either. a key ingredient in the Notre better than my run duties. I think not a good coach." "'Week in and week out I do Dame offensive line. my ability to cut the linebackers Despite the improvement, some things better than others,""Chuck is a very strong player when the defensive line allows it Notre Dame finds itself with a 1-:3 he continues. "'You win by put­with great determination," says is a plus for me." ledger after four contests. 
ting these things together. Tech­Notre Dame offensive line coach Yelevich took over the reigns '"We always go into the season nique gets the job done. All the Tony Yelevich. "He has set high of the offensive line from Carl with the goal of attaining a na­effort in the world is not worth 

goals and standards for himself. Selmer. Lanza said he is very im­tional championship," says 
much without technique."He has added a good deal of pressed with thejob Yelevich has Lanza. "'But if we cannot get that, 
'"I attribute most ofmy successleadership to our team. His tal­done. then at least we would like to get 
to knowing the offense. " ents rank him very highly in re­"Coach Yelevich is in the a bowl berth. lation to other players I have process of doing a very good coached." job," says Lanza. "When he came 

Ill 
ALUMNI ::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:,:::::;:,:::::::::::::::::::::::
Lanza, a 6-:3, 255-pound in, his philosophy was a lot dif­
SENIOR ::;:::::::;:::;:::::::::;:::::::::::::::;:::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::
senior from Germantown, Ten­ferent than the past three years. nessee, has earned monograms Part of the offensive lines prob­each of the last two seasons as lem this year may be that we have a reserve snapper. He has also not broken some of the bad 
:···!cLua··,
played in all Notre Dame football habits we developed in the past." 
Interhall soccer races tighten up • • as contenders eye playoff spots : WED: :
•+ Now that it is getting •+ 
By CHRIS PAULISON met earlier. Zahm beat Keenan, Zahm, who has had two of its Sports Writer but succumbed to Flanner. + cooler, buy an Orange + 
games decided by shootouts, Keenan triumphed over Flanner, will attest to that. 
+ White Mountain +
Heading into the third and final :3-1, in the first game of the reg­In the North American Divi­week of regular season play, the 
ular season. sion, Alumni, undefeated after + COOLER $.50 + 


NVA lnterhall Soccer league "I was very upset after that first three games, sits ahead of Holy boasts four heated divisional game, but after making some Cross A and Cavanaugh, who races. major defensive adjustments, we share 2-1 records. 
The short five-game regular seem to be rolling," says Flanner Allowing only one goal season schedule has caused a captain Mike Gordon. '"Our key through its first three games, 
+ THURS: • 
three-team traffic jam atop each is that we have yet to peak." Alumni Junior stopper John of the four divisions. Only two of Matt Phofl, captain ofthe Zahm '"Dog" Paynter and goalie Bill 
+ Join the CLUB +
the three teams currently vying team, shares some contrasting Fitzpatrick spark what has been for divisional titles will be selec­thoughts on winning the divi­much like a brick wall. + Canadian Club Specials + ted for the playoffs, which will sion. Holy Cross A anticipates 
• $1 •
take place shortly after October "As a coach and a "I find this penetrating that Alumni wall on break. type of soccer a game of intan­Wednesday October 15, when 
The South American Division gibles," he says. "On any given they meet in what very could be includes the defending cham­day, one team can go out and a playoff showdown for the pion Off-Campus Hoobers, upset his opponent." divisional title. along with frontrunners Grace A 
and Morrissey A. The Hoobers, r-----------------------------1 ·~··················· 
who took home the title last year I as "Off-Campus Crime" currently sport an unblemished 4-0 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND I 
record. Senior captain Tom I Browsler says he thinks the I Hoobers have a good shot at 
We need DORM REPS for JPW. This position I
defending their title. 

""Talent-wise, there's not a will involve getting information to all Juniors. 1 team stronger," he says. "For us I to go places, we must play to­
ALSO, We'd like to have your suggestions I
gether as a team." Morrissey A, whose only loss for THEMES for the cocktail dance came at the hands of The Hoobers, and Grace A figure to battle for second place. AND, we'd like some suggestions for a Leading the way in the Eastern 
.,..L BRUNCH SPEAKER. Who would you be 
European Division are the Off­campus Spleiphs, Stanford, and Ar* intwested in hearing? -(:r -(:r *-A Dillon I. Like their counterparts, the Hoobers, the Spleiphs have also compiled a perfect 4-0 record. "We're a scrappy, 
**** .,* **
cinderella-type team who should ** ~7*l} -(:r *~ ** 
sneak through and be heard 

*-tr * SHOOT FOR THE STARS! *** 
from come playoff time," says captain Dave Thompson. With a formidable defense, 

If you can help by being a dorm rep or
anchored by goalie Pat Marshall, an opponent has yet to score on sending ideas, please return this form to the the Spleiphs. An· Off-Campus 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE
against Stanford Wednesday night would most likely assure 3rd Floor Lafortune 
REDKEN INNER SECRET PERM 
Dillon I a berth in the playoffs. 

by
However, a Stanford victory 
Let "The Secret" make a difference 

would initiate the possibility of a FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10; 4:30 pm 
52999 
in you. Our precision processing
three-way divisional tie. 
will leave your hair soft, lustrous,
In the Western European Divi­sion, a three-way tie currently 
easy to manage and easy to style.

Reg. $3999 (Includes Cut) 
exists between Flanner F.C., NAME_______________ PHONE...________ 
(Long Hair Slightly More) Discover the secret of Redken's best Keenan A, and Zahm A, all 
Not Valid With Any Other 
perm for yourself and save!
stalemated with :3-1 records. A 
Coupon or Offer.

ADDRESS:________________________ 
SALE ENDS 11/1/86
real "dogfight" ofa division, each 
Buyer's Outlet Mall Scottsdale Mall
of these three frontrunners have 
Mon-Sat 9:30am-9pm 291-0009

APPOINTMEN'IS­
Sun 12 -5 Now Salons Upstairs 

Jl]ST WALK IN! 5901 Grape Road AND Downstairs
INTERESTED IN DORM REP POSITION?___ 
~ 
272-4036 
REGULAR RAX. 
Most Salons Feature
(Limit 4 Offers Per Coupon) 
LaSalle Square PLYMOUTH

COCKTAIL DANCE THEME IDEAS?________ 
UVA SUNBED SYSTEMS! 
937 Bendix Plynouth Center 
Our famous Rax roast beef, sliced 
237-9049 935-9984
thin, piled high and served on a &esame-seed roll. 
,..._ pre.nt c~ befon ordnina. One coupon per perKW'l per vilit. Not w.lid in combinAtion with any ocher Rax after. Offer good at participating Rax Restaurants. l/20 cent cuh redemption value. Sl986 Rax Rntaurants,lnc. · 

BRUNCH SPEAKER SUGGESTIONS---­

~------­
~~4tJil~~----------------------------------------------------•W•e•d•n•es•d•a•~-O--ct•o•be•r•8•,•1•9•8•6•,•--pa•g•e---II
Bloom County 
'leJ, II 81/SSU!Jf~ IS lfiKT 81155€T f{(}(JN/l, PIIKr IINTCC.Ofc. 171€ MIUTI/trf HilS !JWI {.(}Of</N& rOI? QV€ F(JI? Y£111?5 ... 
\ 
Beernuts 
Campus 
IIPPIIK€N1lY 1H€Y WllNT mvse me/11 116•.. Vlf... 
51/Y.. WH€Re liRe 1lXIK YOf/1? lEW ''fJIINIINII '€M Rtrf'f/fJi/C'' ~5? OFF. 
I I 
0 

Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
{7(} 'trJI/ 1111'/e IINY /f?€11 WHIIT 111/f'PefS WileN Yal HII<C (Jf' 11 filii? Or SIKJKTS IINf? YO(//? U&S 

111?6 ONC.Y TWO INCHeS UW&?' 
/ 

Mark Williams 


12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed mettingofAlcoholics 7:00p.m.: College of Business Management Anonymous. Holy Cross House Club Fourth Annual Business Career Forum. 
Speakers: Ron Nahser, President and CEO, 12:15-1:15 p.m.: Center for Spirituality's Is­Frank C. Nahser Social lnc.,Advertising, sues Facing Women in the Church. Fall. 1986 Chicago, III.,!Mary Ann Weldon, Director of Series, "Women and Morality", by Dr. Leslie Financial Control Analysis, General Motors Griffin, SMC, Stapleton Lounge Corp., Detroit, Michigan,/ John Hurley, Con­
sultant, Arthur Anderson and company, 3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, Ad­Chicago, Illinois, Library Auditorium vanced WORD, Room I 08, Computing Center, limit I 0. Introduction to SAS, Part 2, room 7:00 p.m.: Wednesday Night Film Series, 23, Computing Center. To register call Betty "Singing in the Rain", 1952, color, I 03 min­at 239-5604. Free and open to pulic utes, O'Shaughnessy Hall Loft 
4:15 p.m.: SMC Philosophy Department and 7:00 p.m.: African Studies Film Series, "Last Justice Education Lecture, "Is Capital Punish­Grave at Dimbaza", Center for Social Con­ment Cruel and Unusual", by Prof. Jeffrie cerns Murphy, Stapleton Lounge 
7:00, 9:00 &:. I I :00 p.m.: Movie, "The Enfor­cer", sponsored by SAB, $I, Engineering 
4:20 p.m.: Physics colloquium, "Matter En-Auditorium hanced Neutrino Oscillations in the Sun", by Dr. S. Peter Rosen. Los Alamos National Labs, 7: 15-8:30 p.m.: Fellowship meeting, The Spir­I 18 Nieuland Science Hall itual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan-Stanford 
Chapel 4:30-6:00 p.m.: Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages Lecture "Poetry and Magic", by 8:00-9:30 p.m.: Economics Department Labor Prof. Thomas Green, Yale University, 124 Workshop, "Trade And American Workers", Hayes-Healy by Prof. John Culberton, University of Mic­
higan, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 6:30p.m.: Meeting, Society of Entrepreneur­ship and New Ventures, Chameleon Room of 8: I 0 p.m.: ND--SMC Theatre Presents "Crimes Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's of the Heart", O'Laughlin Auditorium 

Woodsy Owl says Only Nature Should Paint Rocks! 
Give a hoot. Don't pollute. 
Forest Service, U.S.D.A. FD 
"Ha! Figured you might try escapin', Bert -so I just took the liberty of removin' your horse's brain." 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Signs of approval 
5 Turkic 
language 10 Deeds 14 Profess 15 That is: Lat. 16 Relent 17 Hare and 
hounds 19 Poem by Byron 20 Heb. letter 21 Flightless 
bird 22 Appetizing 23 Lacerate 25 Poker term 27 "Gunsmoke" 
character 30 Guitar's cousin: var. 32 Danish 
district 35 Brutal 37 Favor 39 Opposite 
"'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
of dele 10/7/86

All Rights Reserved

40 Gr. letter 42 Remain 43 Dick of TV 3 Info 46 Certain fishes 4 Whisked 49 Caleb's bib-5 Twitch 
lical role 6 Disciple 50 Antagonistic 7 Sports group 52 Hair pad 8 Guarantee 53 See 35A 9 Way to go 55 Small bottle 10 Map collection 57 Dumas 11 Try to catch 
musketeer 12 Small pie 59 Twilight 13 Influence 61 Thorax 18 Cold 65 Crow 22 Row of seats 66 Certain drink 24 Alias letters 68 Foundation 26 Mountain peak 69 Dispatch boat 27 Platters 70 Rani apparel 28 At hand 71 Copycat 29 Comic actor 72 Extend as 31 Minimal 

a lease 33 Stiller's mate 47 Filmdom's 58 Mouse follower 73 Hardtop for 34 Hideaway event MacGraw 60 Jugular e.g. one 36 Shoshonean 48 Fruit 62 Birthright 38 Sixth sense 51 Arm cover seller DOWN 41 World 54 O.K. 63 Sp. painter 1 CaL wine 44 So 56 Tibetan 64 Musical group region 45 Before hold capital 66 Exclude 2 Ellipse or nail 57 Mr. Eban 67 Heifer 
•··················································~• : SAB PRESENTS THE ENF0 Rc ER : 
t WEDNESDAY, OCTOBERS 7 00 9 00 ••
• : ' : '11:00
t THURSDAY, OCTOBER 9 t 
•+ EngineeringAuditorium $1.00 •+ 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••4 
. ' ' ... .. . . . .. . .
~ 

•\·.....\ ,\_ '· ·-~-.,_ '· '· .._ '· •• ,_ ·-" ·-·--. "l, ' .._ ••• ~·-... -••• " '\ •• .,. ... '\'.. • •.•• ~ ... ~ •. 
--~---·--~­
Wednesday, October 8, 1986, -page 12
SRorts 
Notre Dame ties Zips in soccer showdown 
By PETE GEGEN stopper John Guignon. "We were Assistant Sports Editor dragging too, but once we saw they were down, we started to 
Behind a solid team effort. the pick it up. Notre Dame soccer team tied At that point, the Irish were 13th-ranked Akron, 1-1, yester­never intimidated by the Zips, day. marking them closely on defense 
The tie represents the biggest the first half. accomplishment for the team Both teams had several good this season since the season­scoring opportunities in the first opening 1-0 victory over half, but neither team could Wisconsin-Milwaukee. score. Notre Dame's best chance 
''I'm happy with the way the came on a volley by forward guys played," said Head Coach Bruce 'Tiger' McCourt which was Dennis Grace. "Akron is a bril­saved by Zips keeper David liant team." Zupko. 
Akron was coming offa big vic­Notre Dame kept the pressure tory over Indiana on Monday, on in the second half with several which moved them to up to offensive attacks. One centering second in the Great Lakes pass was deflected just wide of rankings. the goal by an Akron defender. N~ • ·~ .:._.~:.~::~~~ 
The ObservevDavld rtscher

The Indiana victory left the Akron caught the Irish napping \ 
John Guignon heads a ball in soccer action rank.ed Akron Zips 1-1 yesterday. Pete
Zips with a depleted unit yester­on the transition game, and day. With only two extra players turned it into the first goal of the earlier this year. The Irish tied the 13th-Gegen details the action in his story at left. 
California wins big over Boston behind Mike Witt's five-hitter 
Associated Press 
per for a single. The hit broke a season, suddenly ran into trou­string of 16 straight batters ble. He walked Bob Boone on a BOSTON -Mike Witt pitched a 
retired by Witt after walking 3-I pitch and narrowly missed five-hitter and the California An­
Boggs, the major-league batting on a full-count delivery to Garygels jolted Boston ace Roger 
champion, leading off the first. Pettis. Clemens for four runs in the 
Ruppert Jones followed with a second inning last night to beat When Boggs got his hit, 
line single up the middle and the Red Sox 8-I in the first game however, Witt and the Angels had rookie Wally Joyner, who had 
of the American League playoffs. the game in control and they doubled in the first inning. sliced coasted the rest of the way in the an RBI double into the left-field Clemens, pitching for the first the opener of the best-of-seven corner that made it 2-0. time since being struck on the series. Game 2 was scheduled After Clemens threw ball 
one 

right elbow by a line drive last for 3:05 p.m. EDT today. to Brian Downing. Red Sox pitch­week, could not find his rhythm ing coach Bill Fischer walked hur­early on the clear, 50-degree Clemens, the most dominant riedly to the mound to talk with night. pitcher in baseball this season · l1is struggling ace. As soon as 
Brian Downing drove in four with a 24-4 record including a the visit was over and Sammy runs for the Angels who scored 3-0 mark against the Angels, Stewart began warming up, more runs against Clemens than came out throwing hard with Downing lined a two-run single any team this year. They fastballs exceeding 95 mph. He into the left-field corner. pounded him for I 0 hits and escaped a two-on, two-out jam eight runs, seven earned, in 7 in the first inning by retiring By the time Clemens finished I -3 innings. Doug DeCinces on a drive to the striking out Reggie Jackson, he 
AP Photo Witt, meanwhile, flirted with center-field wall, and opened the had thrown 45 pitches in the Roger Clemens did not reinjure his arm last night, but he the first no-hitter in playoff his-second by easily striking out Rob second inning and had been 
did take a beating at the hands of the California Angels, tory, holding the Red Sox hitless Wilfong and Dick Schofield. rocked for four runs in an inning 8-1. The second game of the series is set for this afternoon. for 5 2-3 innings before Wade But then Clemens, averaging for only the second time this See story at right. Boggs beat out an infield chop-just over two walks per game this season. 
.---------~--------------------------------------------------~-­
Irish record should not be our biggest worry 
Yes, I know that Notre Dame is 1-3. So you see. it is not time to panic. The Irish are Worry that. in some strange way, Donald Trump And I know they have not won a road game since a good team, and Alabama just got through showing may someday own an NFL team. At least Doug Flutie the season-ending win over USC in 1984. them how far away they are from being a very good will have a job. And I know that with three Top-20 opponenets 
team. The Irish will have four games to make up the Worry about the possibility of the least exciting 
remaining on the schedule it will be tough to finish difference before Penn State, LSU and USC will mea­baseball season in quite some time ending with a World Series between the Houston Astros and Cali­
the season with more wins than losses. sure their progress. In the meantime, there are other things other fornia Angels but I guess it would only be fitting.
But I do not think it is time to panic. Not by a longshot. things that should worry you Irish fans rather than Be afraid that someday George Steinbrenner will get a job in the real world where he can hurt real
Head Coach Lou Holtz began the season by season record of the football team. on people, instead of just saying bad things about the
that the Irish had a chance to be a good team, but Worry about the NCAA cracking down ticket-people he pays millions.
that they were a far cry from being a great team. 
Fear the day Harry Caray retires, because nobodyHoltz' team, so far, has merely reaffirmed his Rick 
else constantly reminds us that baseball is meant toprediction. 
be fun, and when you follow the Cubs, that is a must.
It seems that Irish fans were a bit spoiled by the 
Rietbrock Dread the day Ted Turner convinces us that the
performance of the Irish in the Michigan contest and Atlanta Braves really are America's team, and thatevery game is measured against that effort. But that 
Irish Items the Goodwill Games are here to stay.
game included so many intangibles that it is not Worry about the prospect of listening to Dick Vitaleaccurate to use it as a role model. 
for the entire basketball game against Kansas, orThe Irish has an offense that can make the big distribution violations when more serious infractions 
listening to Keith Jackson try to fit "bulldoggying"
play occasionally, and can establish a ground game are put on the back burner. 
into a basketball telecast.
sometimes. To improve, they must be able to do Be concerned that a team coached by Jimmy Worry about the condition of the ACC furniture. Itboth more often. Johnson is in the driver's seat for a National Cham­won't be long before Bobby Knight visits.
The special teams nave also been inconsistent, pionship and a team coached by Gerry Faust still has You should be more concerned with being dupedwith the Alabama punt return, and Tim Brown's a winning record. 
into thinking last season's Dallas episodes were real. 
fumbled kickoff return serving as illustrations. Fret over the prospect of a winless season for the or thinking that watching more than two episodesIn short the Irish have considerable ground to Colts, but that shouldn't happen since they will play of "Aif" is harmless than worrying about the football make up in all facets of the game, but the framework the Dolphins twice. 
team. 

is there. The main thing needed is time for the Worry about the possibility ofanother season filled Notre Dame is a pretty good football team, just as various parts to come together. with the obnoxious Chicago Bears, and worse yet, Holtz said it would be; and, in all likelihood, it willThe upcoming stretch of opponents, Pittsburgh, another off-season filled with Bears players' faces get better in the coming weeks and become a veryAir Force, Navy and SMU. are a notch below the teams plastered on every product that hits the market. 
good team, just as Holtz say.!; it will.
that have beaten the Irish so far. The Irish figure to Be troubled with the new instant replay rule in the Worry about midterms, vacations and meetingswin more than they lose in this four-game stretch, NFL, and how a good idea is being ruined because because the Irish are going to be just fine beforeand in the process put together some of the pieces referees have trouble using walkie-talkies, some­this season is over. Don't worry.
that are there now but not meshing correctly. thing they should have mastered by the third grade. 






