~----~---~---------~-~------­
Fencers -page 6 



War Memorial remains defaced by act ofvandalism 
VOL XX, NO. I 24 FRIDAY, APRIL 11, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's , 

Hesburgh compliments fast, but University on convinced 

By TRIPP BALTZ 
News f.'tlttor 
University President Father Theodore Ucsburgh, in a written statement released yesterday, said ont· has to admire visiting educator Father Ba-;il van Rensburg for his decision to fast for his beliefs. 
He added, however, that "symbolism is important, but only if it is effective. We (the University) arc yet 10 be convinced that the sym­bolism of divestment is presently more effective than what we are doing and are prepared to do, as we continually monitor the situation in South Africa .. 
".\ty remarks arc meant in no way to diminish my respect for him and his views, hut merely to clarify the issue that confronts us," Hesburgh added. 
Van Rt•nshurg began fasting Tucs· 
By MARY BERGER 
StaffReporter 
University President Father Theodore Jlesburgh joined Saint Mary's President William Hickey, 
South Bend Mayor Roger Parent and approximately 40 students this week in signing mock-pa<;sbooks which will he sent to South African President P. W. Botha. 
"The passbooks arc copies of those which the blacks in South Africa must carry at all times," said 
As.••odated Press 
TRIPOLI, Libya · Col. Moammar Khadafy said this morning that Ronald Reagan had insulted him, in· sistcd Libya is not afraid of the llnitcd States, and called the U.S. president an "old man." 
A smiling, relaxed Khadafy, dressed in an olive-green flight suit, held an impromptu news confer­ence just after midnight with a small 


According to Hesburgh, the issue is not "our or his determination to do everything possible and feasible to eliminate apartheid in South Africa," but rather to decide how to eliminate apartheid most effectively. 
Hesburgh said the stance of the Board of Trustees on the issue of divestment is clear. "We have divested our holdings in 11 com­panies that did not comply with the Sullivan Principles in both their original and enlarged version. We are monitoring continually the per­formance ofthe other companies." 
He said the University is in col­

Father Theodore Hesburgh laboration with three groups: day for the divestiture ofthc Univer­
"businesses, the churches, and the sity's investments in companies that 
universities," who he said he do business in South Africa. Van believes are the "most important in­Rensburg, who is from Cape Town, fluences for the elimination of apar­
South Africa and on sabbatical at 

theid in South Africa." Notre Dame, said he will live on 
see DIVEST, page 4 
water alone indefinitely. 

Hickey, Hesburgh join in protest 
Margaret Falls, the Saint Mary's faculty advisor for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Amnesty International, the group responsible for the project. 
In addition to the passbook sig· ning, the campus group simulated unfair arrests of blacks in South Africa, staging arrests of students at South Dining Hall Monday to "demonstrate the violations against and the treatment of prisoners in South Africa and to raise awareness of the problems in South Africa," ac· 


Khadafy not afraid of 'old man' 
group of reporters in an outdoor tent at Tripoli's AI Fatah University. 
He sat in an easy chair, and behind him about 100 students chanted anti-American slogans. Outside the tent several camels stood by. 
"He insulted me," Khadafy said in English. "I don't worry about his declarations, particularly what he said about me personally. He's an old man." In a Washington news confer-cording to Falls. 

The main purpose of the group, said Falls, i&, to work for the release and better treatment of"prisoners of conscience" all over the world through letter-writing campaigns to the governments imprisoning them. 
"Prisoners of conscience are those people imprisoned for their color, race, sex, ethnic origin, or religious or political beliefs who have neither used nor advocated 
see PROTEST, page 4 

ence Wednesday night, Reagan had called Khadafy the "mad dog" of Middle East politics. In the Arab world, calling someone a dog is highly insulting. 
Khadafy was asked what he would tell Reagan if they met in pel:son. 
"I think we would understand 

each other ifwe were together," said 
Khadafy. "I can convince him, be· 
cause I'm right and he's wrong." 
The-Ob~ervcr/Dt'C'w S.ndlcr 
Cathy Rigby McCoy spoke to students at Saint Mary's last night about tbe effects ofeating disorders. Tbe fonner Olympic gymnast bas sufferedfrom anorexia nervosa and bulemia. Story below. 


Advice, support given by Rigby on disorders 

ByKIMYURATOVAC 
News Staff 
"There is so much in life that it's a 

shame to let an eating disorder run 
your life," .Cathy Rigby McCoy ex· 
plained at last evening's eating disor· 
ders lecture at Saint Mary's. 
Rigby, a former Olympic gymnast, 

suffered from both anorexia nervosa 
and bulemia. She said that she 
developed the diseases because ofa 
constant need to prove herself and 
to achieve. 
"I felt my life sliding under the 

public microscope," Rigby said. She 
added that a lack of responsibility 
and assertion allowed her to give in 
to the eating disorder and let it run her life. 
Rigby credited her husband, Tom McCoy, with giving her the courage to fight back against the disease which was destroying her life. "He saw right through my little dis­guise," she said. 
After realizing the destruction caused by her disease, Rigby sought professional help. Armed with con­fidence, faith and hope, she was able to control her illness. 
Rigby encouraged all who think they might be afflicted with an eating disorder to trust and seek professional help. She cited con­fidence and hope as the keys to success. 
see RIGBY, page 4 



The Obacrver/Drew Sandler 
The Notre Dame Wat Memorial stands defaced by graffiti. Story at right. 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 

The Notre Dame War Memorial, dedicated to alumni who died while serving in the armed forces since World War II, remained defaced yesterday, the victim ofvandalism. 
Four of the memorial's eight limestone columns were spray-painted with red letters, apparently sometime Tuesday night or early Wednesday morning. 
The paint will be removed with strong detergent and high-pressure water in the next couple of days, according to Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant. A private con· tractor will do the work at a cost of Sl,200, he said. 
As of yesterday afternoon, Notre Dame Security had no suspects and found no wit­nesses to the crime, Security Director Rex Rakow said. According to Rakow, Security received no report of the vandalism until Wednesday afternoon, when an Observer 
reporter called to inquire about the defaced 
memorial. 
Three of the vandalized columns each had 
one two-foot letter spray-painted on the north 
side. Scrawled on the first from the left was the 
letter "0" with a horizontal line above it. 
Spray-painted on the second was the letter 
"D." On the third was the letter "0." 
Scrawled on the fourth column was the let· ter "P" with an exclamation point. Below the letter "P" were the smaller initals "M.C." 
Neither Rakow nor Dedrick said he knew what the cryptic letters stood for. Dedrick also said he didn't know why anyone would vandalize the memorial. 
"I really wonder why anybody would deface that monument," Dedrick said. "It's to the honor of the Notre Dame men ldlled in those wars." 
In other crime-related incidents, Rakow said six thefts from rooms, six stolen bikes and 
see CRIME, page S 


-------------~--------------~~-----------------,

------------------~-­
The Observer 


In Brief 

A partial blackout hit the LaFortune Student Center early yesterday morning, dimming lights and shutting down the Ob­server's computer system. As a result, a story about the Notre Dame War Memorial could not be printed. "The Far Side" was run on page 3 in its place. Full power was restored to LaFortune later that mor­ning. -The Observer 
Thomas Nessinger, a 1954 Notre Dame alumnus, has received the 1986 Outstanding Alumnus Award from Beta Sigma, the Notre Dame chapter of Beta Alpha Psi, the national honorary society of the accounting profession. Nessinger is currently in the director for recruiting in the U.S. for Arthur Anderson and Come pany in Chicago. He has served Notre Dame on the advisory coun­cil of the College of Business Administration and Saint Mary's College as chairman of the parents' council. -The Observer 
Of Interest 

The ISO Festival videotape will be shown tonight at 7 in the Breen-Phillips 24-hour lounge, where a small gathering will follow. All interested are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
"The Odd Couple," a Neil Simon play, will be presented by the Moreau Players tonight and tomorrow night at 8 in the Moreau Seminary auditorium. Admission is free, but donations will be accepted for Southeast Asian refugees in the South Bend area. Refreshments will be served at intermission. -The Observer 
Italian Culture Week kicks off its third annual celebration tomorrow at 2 p.m. with an Italian cafe on Haggar Col­lege Center's terrace at Saint Mary's. The week runs until next Friday and includes movies, lectures, dinners and an Italian Mass. -The Ob­
server 

ODN, RASTA, WHC, SOLA members and anyone else who has helped in Third World Awareness Week are invited to a picnic today from 5 to 7 outside of Notre Dame's Holy Cross Hall. ODN will provide food but not drinks. -The Observer 
FatherErnan McMullin will be honored by Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters as the John Cardinal O'Hara professor ofphilosophy with a conference on "The Shaping ofScien­tific Reality" today and tomorrow at the Center for Continuing Education. As part of the conference, McMullin will address "Construction and Constraint: The Shaping ofScientific Rationality" at 8 tonight. -The Observer 
"Central America in Turmoil" wm be the 
topic ofdiscussion and a dinner tomorrow at 5 p.m. at the Broadway Christian Church, 1412 S. Carroll St. Speaking will be Father Robert Pelton, who recently returned from Central America, Professor Mic­hael Zalkin, who worked three years in Nicaragua, and Tom Lent, who worked eight years in Guatemala. -The Observer 
An Tostal staff members must attend a mandatory meeting Sunday at 7 p.m. in the library auditorium. -The Observer 

Weather 

Sunglasses and sweaters will 
be called for today, as bright sunlight and cool temperatures continue. The high will be in the 50s to mid 60s. Tonight will be clear with lows in the mid 30s to low 40s. Tomorrow will be mostly sunny and pleasant with highs in the mid 50s to mid 60s. The extended forecast calls for partly cloudy skies Sunday and Monday. Highs 


will be in the mid 50s to 60s and lows will be in the mid 30s to mid 40s. 
=c _ 


Ihe Observer--­
Viewpoint Layout......... Mark Mclaughlin Typesetters ......................................... Maggie! 
IJesign Editor........................Alice Kroeger 

Features Copy Editor ........ Gerti Wimmer Mary EUen Harrington 
Features Layout......................... Carey Gels 

ND Day Editor........................... Bill Herzog News Editor .................... Mark McLaughlin 
Slotman ......... , ....................................... Roger 
SMC Day Editor............................... MJ Sully 

Ad Destgn ..................................... )esse Pesta Sports Copy Editor .................. Larry Burke Fred Nelson Rick Rietbrock 
CopyEditor .................................... Phil Wolf 

Allison Fahrenkopf Viewpoint Copy Editor..........Sue Dunbar 
Photographer ........................ Drew Sandler 

The Observer ( ( "SPS ~99 l··IOOO) is puhli•hed Monday throuflh ~riday ex<·epl durin!( exam and vacation J'<'riod!.. TheObserver is publishc:d by the Mudent•ofthe I ·n;.·er.it) of Notre Dame and Saini Mary"s College. Subscription• may he: pur<·hased for SW per year ( SlO J'<'r semester) b)· wrilinl( The Observer, 1'.0 Box Q. :>Outre Dame. lndoana 
~M~6. 

The Obsrrver is a memlxr of The Assoclatc:d Prrsa. AU reproduction riflht• art· 
rnrrvrd. 

We're Working for 
YOU 
The Observer is continu­ing to experience typeset­ting difficulties in the dai­ly production of the newspaper. However, the staff is working to pro­duce the best product possible under these cir­cumstances. 
The Observer apologizes for any delays in the paper's delivery, any pro­duction errors and the brevity of the publication incurred because of these difficulties. 
This situation will be am­mended as soon as possi­ble. 

The Observer 


620 W Wa<hmglon. South Bend. 234·9077 
Reservations available 
So you thought 

Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 2 

STUDY IN EUROPE 
The University of Louvain (est. 1425), Leuven, Belgium offers COMPLETE PROGRAMMES IN PHILOSOPHY FOR THE DEGREES OF 
B.A, M.A.. AND Ph.D. plua A JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD PROGRAMME All courses are in English ,.., 
l'lntelaTuition i:.::~=E=~i~:.::s (:!:$250) r...\_"~·.·.v\ . 
><Wonul Mercoerpletn 2. B-3000 ~ BetQoum $ 
KULeuven 
------ombudsmanPresents-------, Operation Brainstorm The Challenge: Brainstorm innovative ideas on improving any aspect ofcampus life To Enter: Deposit entries into ballot boxes in the dining halls or ath the OBUD desk in Lafortune  
Prizes: $50, $30, $15 in campus gift certificates  
Deadline: Monday, April14 Questions? Complaints? Call239-0BUD  




620 W •w.,..hmglon Sou1h s~nd. 234 9077 
Rt>.-.¥rvat1on., r~va1lahle 

Spring Break was overl Well not at 
Tippecanoe Place. We are extending Spring Break with a special offerfor students. Bring this ad in/ora special price 'Break'. 
$1.00 OFFourfabulous Sunday Brunch ;t~ 
Good on thefollowing Sundays: ;-r~~ 
Apri/13, 20, 27, & May 4. ~.~~~ 

620 lN. Washington St. --Reservations Required--234 -9077 

~~'p\ Student GovP,rnment-----. ASSISTANT T'.EASURER 


~</~ available in Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor ,Lafortune Must presently be a 
Sophmor~ Accounting Major Applications due if you have any questions call
Friday, April11 , 4:00 PM 
'Becca at 239-7417 

The Observer Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 3 



Activist fears 'nuclear humanism' 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
"The new and savage nuclear humanism" should concern us all, according to Father Daniel Berrigan, author and antiwar activist, who spoke la.~t night on being a "Peacemaking Citizen in a Warmak­ing State." 
Berrigan, speaking at the Notre 
Dame Law School, described his il­
legal entry with seven others into a 
General Electric nuclear plant in 
September 1980. "We had dared 
look Medusa in the face, and behold, 
we were not turned to stone," he 
said. 
Berrigan and his companions 
walked unnoticed into a high­
security "re-entry division plant," 
owned by (ieneral Electric, armed 
with hammers and vials of their own 
blood. 
Describing the plant as a "nuclear 

Auschwitz," Berrigan said the 
goings-on in the plant were virtually 
invisible, and no one claimed to 
know what was taking place. 
As they walked into the building, the group went unnoticed by the. changing shifts of workers. When they reached their destination, they attacked the machinery within the plant with their hammers. 
Fully Intending to be caught, the group had planned to drop their hammers instantly, pour their blood around them, and form an unbroken "circle of prayer." Instead, they were led away to a "high security area," though there was "no security in the word," according to Berrigan. 
Berrigan said the plant workers were transfixed and aghast at what the group was doing, but made no attempt to stop them. 
The group was tried In late 1981 

---HELPWANTED---­olsMAs house Is seeking a man and wife to be the live-In managers/directors of the DISMAS House near downtown South Bend. (A grad student and Interested spouse or a mature couple are possibilities.) 
Room, board, and stipend to be negotiated. Occalslonal use of a car also Included. 
The home will house 9 or 1 0 college students and 9 or 10 former prisoners. 
Need strong couple, able to create 
community, who have management and 
motivational skills. 

Need experience In personnel management 
and ability to handle all the tasks associated 
with a large household. A newly decorated 
self-contained apartment Is provided In the 
home for the couple. 

Contact Jim Roemer of the DISMAS Board at 239-6614 for Interview. 
Communication and Theatre dept., and the Kellogg Institue Present: 

and the members of the group were 
offered freedom ifthey would plead 
guilty. 
"We agreed, thank you and no 
thank you," said Berrigan. 
Berrigan described the brand of justice they founel at the trial as being like that found in rural Missis­sippi in the early 1900s. The judge trying the case expressed regret at not being able to send the group to either a Siberian camp or leper colony. 
Reading his statement from the 1980 trial, Berrigan cited the familiar General Electric slogan "We Bring Good Things to Life," and said that "General Electric brings all things to death." 
Berrigan said he was encouraged by the impact of the Catholic peace movement, but expressed his strong 
Spring has sprung 
ThcObscrvcr/DrewSandler dislike for the "main-line media," 
Despite the low temperatures, sunny skies have brought buds 

who, according to Berrigan, do not 
to trees all over campus. The weather will continue to be sunny
tell the people what is going on in 
and coolfor the nextfew days. Details are on page 2. 
their own communities. 





~~~t9~ 
Kenneth Kiesler, Conductor 
SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB &CHORALE 
Featuring Lorna Haywood, soprano; Elizabeth Mannion, mezzo­soprano; Tonio di Paolo, tenor and William Rhodes, bass 
SATURDAY., APRIL 12, 8:15 P.M. 
Morris Civic Auditorium Adults '18-'1 0 Students 114-17 
2nd Balcony Student Rush Seats $4 

"Concert Comments" 7:15P.M. 
f_fi/il~= 
(219) 232-6343 
Have you seen the ridiculous monstrosity depleted below, and wondered what It Is? 

Whi,lt's fhe all new Student Government 
Cylindrical File Suggestlcm Receptacle 
placed appropriately, lor your convenience In the dining halls. Got any Ideas or suggestions, any at all? Next lime you're walling In a massive line walling lor your Hungarian noodle bake, jot one down on the provided waste paper, or use your own, and deposit II. No matter how off the wall (or down to earth), Mike and Don promise to have your contribution properly handled by a group ollralned professionals. Give us your suggestions, Ideas, opinions on any Issue. 
Tell us your favorite crayon color, we're Interested, we want to know Do It lor the fun oil!, Do II for God, Country, Notre Dome, Do II so all those trained professionals we hired have something to do. 
It's Now, It's Wow, the new Student Government 
Cylindrical File Suggestion Receptacle 
located for your convenient, continuous utilization In both dining halls. 
Advertising career needs highlighted in lecture 

Special to The Observer 
Personality, "brightness" and "a very curious mind" are the charac­teristics most needed for a career in advertising, according to john Bowen, chairman of the board and chiefexecutive officer ofthe eighth· largest advertising agency in the world. 
Bowen, CEO of the D'Arcy Maslus Benton & Bowles agency, spoke to approximately 75 students Wednes­day night in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. 
"You don't have to be an MBA" to succeed in advertising, Bowen said. "What you need is a very curious mind, an entrepeneurial spirit, a lot of drive, and you need to be a fun­loving person. The business Itself is a lot offun." 
Bowen outlined a heirarchy of re­quirements for students seeking jobs in advertising agencies. "The most important criterion is bright­ness," Bowen said, "and the second most important is personality." After that, interviewers are most in· terested In summer employment ex­perience, extra-curricular activities and curriculum studied, Bowen said. 
In a prepared speech, Bowen listed what he said were advertis­ing's most significant contributions to our society. He said that the com· petition between brands fostered by advertising leads to higher quality products and lower prices. Advertis· ing can increase the demand for products, which then can be mass· produced, thus allowing lower prices, Bowen explained. 
Advertising also pays for a large portion of our information and en­tertainment, Bowen pointed out. 
Bowen countered the popular myth that advertising "manipulates" consumers by saying rather that it "persuades" them with rational arguments. 
He also pointed out that there are several organizations to which con· sumers may bring complaints about advertising. 
Bowen discreditled the idea that advertising can work magic. "Advertising works wonders when It is in tune with the times," Bowen ad· mitted, "but when advertisers mis· read what the public wants, advertising falls." 
He cited Ford Motor Company's failure with the Edsel and Coca­Cola's mistake with New Coke as ex· amples where advertising could not sell unwanted products. 
The Observer Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 4 


Dead fish no threat, says director 
By MARY BERGER 
StaffReporter 
There is no need to be scared away from St. Mary's Lake by the dead fish which recently have washed up to shore, according to Donald Dedrick, director of the physical plant. 
"Every spring there is some die-off from the winter kill and the melting ofthe ice," he explained. 
The deaths of the fish, most of which are gold carp, pose no threat to the health ofhumans or the other 


Divest 
continued from page 1 
For many years the University has refused to invest in any banks that make loans to the South African government, according to Hes­burgh. "We are also engaged in a broad series of educational efforts, in past financed by these com­panies," Hesburgh said. 
The policy of the board, said Hes­burgh, is such that the University could divest immediately if "we judged that action more effective than what we are doing. 
"Father van Rensburg is praying for our enlightenment and we are grateful for that, since we also pray daily for the same intention," Hes­burgh said. 

Protest 
continuedfrom page 1 
violence," said Falls. 
David Baltierra, a student member ofthe group, said the purposes ofthe letter writing are "to try and get the prisoners released, get information on their conditions, let the prisoners know someone cares, and let the government know that people are aware of the way they are treating the prisoners so that they will treat them better. 
"We are not a political group. We take no political stands. Protesting actions is what we do, not protesting governments," said Baltierra. "I like the direct methods we take, writing directly to one government about one specific person. We are not trying to free a million people." 
The campus group, which is one of many all over the world, writes to two prisoners regulary. According to Falls, "One is a Turkish person in Bulgaria and the other is a prisoner in South Africa who Amnesty believes was arrested for his politi­cal beliefs. We heard that that prisoner may have been released but we are not sure." 
Although Amnesty International does not get much reaction to its work and "rarely hears from offi­cials," Falls said she believes Am­nesty's effectiveness comesfrom the fact that oppressive governments receive letters from all over the world. "Many prisoners of con­science credit Amnesty Interna­tional for their release or the stop of their torture," she added. 


Rigby 
continuedfrompage 1 
The gymnast denounced the media's emphasis on weight. She said that advertising encourages people -women in particular -to think that a thin person is more successful than an overweight per­
son. Nancy Schoenman, counselor 
with the Saint Mary's Career and Development Center, agreed. "We pay attention to what we read, what we hear and what we say to one 
another. We start with ourselves and our environment here at Saint Mary's," she said. . 

animals around the lake. According to Dedrick, the occurrence is natural and is not the result of any type of dumping or ridding of wastes. 
Associate Professor of Biological Sciences Frederick Goetz agreed 
with Dedrick. "I doubt there is 
anything in the water. I am sure it is 
related to some type of die-off," he 
said. 
Speculating on the possible causes of the deaths, Goetz said, "The gold carp are going through reproduction and there is always some stress associated with that process. 
"As the temperature gets warmer, the oxygen level in the water goes down. That's why these deaths usually occur later in the summer time when the temperatures get really warm," Goetz added. 
There are more deaths in St. Mary's Lake than St. Joseph's Lake because there is more ice there, Goetz said. "We keep the ice level down in St. joe's because we use it during the winter," he said. 
ANNOUNCING THE 
Monday Night Special* 
lfll'lllffllsilw...  ...4-1:10 ..-111* ._.S..OIIIJ  
$10.00  $12.50~$22.50  
Complete haircut  HlghiiHhting or coloring  
8/lddeelgn  ce  ophanes etc.  
tormulatect tor your hair type  
complote w/haorcutand deelgn:  
All conditioning Included.  
ALL SERVICES PERFORMED  
·  UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF  
THE MICHAEL &CO.  

EDUCATIONAL TEAM. 
2041 E.lrellnd at Ironwood 
&ca 
South Bend 291-1001 HAiR CONCEPTS 



IRISH SPRING RUNS 

Saturday, April19 

DEADLINE TODAVI 


ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FQQJBALL CONCESSION STANDS  
All oraanlaauo... vt.biaa to haY• •  
CLUB REGISTRATION  football conce•doa ataad .,.., applJ 11011'. Wlanan aad locattou an choaan bJ lott•I'J·  
~ 1 c luN aDd orp•t&atlone ...t  nov  
r•aht~r  vlth the Stu..at Acth1Uee  
OfllcC' for  rh~  1916-17 acad..tc  yen.  
Po~  are  now  avallat.le for:  
1...&iatraUoa  
z.  ~ndha  
].  Football Conce..lon Staada  

Pick Up Foras In Student.Activitiea Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS APRIL 18, 1986 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients NOWIIENTllVGFORFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Session) 
Office atllO NO Ave 
~7/256-5716 
Call Anytime 



EMC CORPORATION 
EMC Corporation will be on campus 
interviewing Monday, April14, at 
Memorial Library. 
EMC Corporation is a high technology manufacturer and marketer of high performance computer peripherals serving the super-mini computer market. 
We are looking for additional sales people for our domestic sales force. We are currently seeking young, aggressi~~ individuals PL!rsuing a career in high technology sales. 
Everyone WelcomeI 

~---­
The Observer Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 5 



Crime 
continuedfrom page 1 
two purse thefts were reported to Security In the past two days. 
The thefts from rooms occurred In Carroll, Pasquerllla West, Grace, Fisher, Morrissey and Howard halls, Rakow said. Each Involved a room with its door apparently unlocked, he said. Except for a jean jacket and jewelry stolen from Pasquerllla West, all thefts were of money or wallets. 
Three of the bikes reported stolen were taken from University Village apartments, Rakow said. Two were stolen from Brownson Hall and one from Stanford Hall. 
Both purse thefts involved unat­tended purses stolen from the Memorial Library, he said. 
Security has made no arrests or apprehensions, nor does it have any suspects, Rakow said. The investiga­tion into the thefts is continuing. 
In the case of the 1983 red BMW which had its windshield shattered late Saturday night, Rakow said Security had determined a suspect and referred his name to Student M­
fairs. 
In the case of the fishhead van­dalized Friday night, Rakow said Security has made no apprehensions and has no suspects. 
To cut down on the campus crime, Rakow asked that any student who witnesses a crime or notices any suspicious activity report it to Security. He added that Security would not release the names of wit­nesses. 

The only crime reported to Saint Mary's Security since Monday was the theft ot'a stop sign and a three­way sign from the corner of Main Avenue and Madeleva Drive, accord­ing to Safety and Security Director Richard Chlebek. Saint Mary's Security has made no arrests and has no suspects in the crime, which oc­curred late Monday night or early Tuesday morning, he said. 
Correction 
Because of an editing error, two photo credits In W ednes­day's Observer were incorrect. The photograph on page 1 was taken by Scott Moorman and the photograph on page 5 was taken by Bob jones. 






Beforeyoumake a longdistance commitment, makesureyouknow whatyou're , . ·ng into. 

If Fletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had known what being stuck in the same boat would mean, chances are neither would have set foot aboard. 
And if you're stuck in the same boat with a long distance company that doesn't give you all the services you need, it's easy to harbor mutinous thoughts. 
But when you pick Al&T as your long distance company, you know you're in for smooth sailing. You'll get trouble-free, reliable service. Immediate long distance connections-even at the busiest hours. And long distance operators to assist you with immediate credit for wrong numbers and collect calling. 
And you'll get discounts off our Day Rate on your state-to-state calls. With savings of over 50o/o during weekends until 5pm Sundays, or nights from llpm to Sam, Sunday through Friday. And 400Al discounts eve­nings between 5pm and llpm, Sunday through Friday. 
So when you're asked to choose a long distance company, sign aboard with AT&T. With AT&T Long Distance Service, you'll never be left stranded. just call 1 800 222-0300 for more information or to choose Al&T. Reach out and touch someone:' 
ATs.T 
The right choice. 
(C; 




~i~~~_{)__i_Jl___t___________________
Fn-·da-y,A_p_rn_u_,1_98-6--pa-ge-6 

Fencers merit praise 
Lost in all the excitement ofspring break was the men's fencing team's victory in the NCAA championships and the women's team's second-place showing. The men's victory represents their first national title since 1978 and their third over­all. It also the first national championship in any sport for a Notre Dame team since their 1978 title. 
The team completed its regular season with a 28-0 to raise Head Coach Mike DeCicco's 25-year record to 480-40. DeCicco's .923 winning percentage makes him more successful than Rockne's or 'Leahy's, and the title is also his third championship. 
Individually, the Irish placed three men, Yehuda Kovacs, Charles Hi~s­Coulthard and Mike Gostigian, on the first all-America team, while Don johnson and Christian Scherpe made the second team. 
The women's team placed second at the NCAAs, its best finish to date. Notre Dame's Molly Sullivan won the tournament's top individual honors. 
While many students may not follow the fencing teams and their accomplish­ments, they are the most successful squads on campus. Yet the mania for football and basketball on the Notre Dame campus often overshadows the fencing teams' accomplishments. Still, these are varsity atheletes and as such deserve the con­gratulations of the campus community for their achievements. 

-The Observer 

P.O. BoxQ 

Sexual love possible outside of marriage 

Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to Michael Keuber's article, "Teach What the Church Teaches on Sexuality." His views on sexuali­ty regarding premarital sex (which he likes to call fornication) and birth control are in­credible limited and, I think, insulting to many people. 
I respect his commitment to the Christian ideal, but Christianity is just that, an ideal. In reality, there are unwanted pregnancies and abortions; both these seem more ethica,l­ly important than precautionary birth con­trol methods and any person's choice regar­ding premarital sex. 
Keuber's and the Church's views are ex­tremely judgmental; they belittle the love two people can find outside marriage. Mak­ing love is a concrete expression of love between two people, not only man and wife, not only two people of the opposite sex, as a child is a concrete expression of life. 
Love can be expressed outside marriage and also with regard to possible fertilization, and Keuber has no right to judge the "sacredness" of the acts used to express this love. His letter reads as a script of the Pharisees. We must respect life. We must also respect 
Dool!_esbury 
individual lives and each individual's free will. Making love is two peoples' complete affirmation of each other; this is not degrading, immoral or wrong. Too little is affirmable any longer in this world, and I for one am glad that people can still express love and affirmation in such a complete way. 
Love in premarital sex is just as proper and true as love in marital sex. Keuber has the right to freedom of expression, yet his ar­ticle was so insulting and judgmental that it lost any real worth. 
Practice your Catholicism, Keuber, and I'll practice my respect for human being and their own freedoms. 
Julie Maier Pasquerilla West Hall 

Promotions 
Junior Maura Mandyck and freshman Gregory Stohr have been selected to serve as 1986-87 assis­tant editors for the Viewpoint department. Mandyck, from Atlanta, had served the department as a regular Viewpoint columnist and copy editor. From St. Louis, Stohr had been involved with the Viewpoint, news and sports depart­ments before being named assis­tant. 


To help Third World we must understand it 
The world was created for all people. Every generation must make a judgement as to how it is being shared. Though we in the United States are enjoying an age of unparalleled prosperity and luxury, we must work to develop an awareness of the problems of poorer nations. We must criticize the in­stitutions and systems which maintain ine­quality and injustice on this earth. 
Sheila Kennedy Sophia Twarog guest column 
The Overseas Development Network has organized Third World Awareness Week with the help of Students Organization for Latin America, Rally Against Starvation in Africa and the World Hunger Coalition to bring Notre Dame students to a greater respect for the Third World-its culture, its successes, its problems and its aspirations. Speaking to ODN on what we can learn from the Third World, Kenneth Jameson says, "Experiencing a Third World culture gets you down to the very basic realities in life, from which we often shelter ourselves. It allows you to observe the process of social change and analyze what seems to be natural in your own culture." 
Poverty and want strip individuals of the human dignity to which everyone is entitled. "There is in each of us a spark of Divinity, a capacity to know, create and Jove," says Pro­fessor Peter Walshe. "We need to structure our society so that the individual is respected.," he adds. Unfortunately undeveloped countries are for us more an idea or a problem than places where real peo­ple are crying out for help. 
The interdependency of the world economy compels us to think of ourselves as one world, not three. Speaking at a recent ODN workshop, economics professor Kwan Kim explains that lending policies of U.S. banks in the '70s have forced some Third World countries into unfavorable export: in­tensive industries at the sacrifice of everything else as they struggle to pay their loans. 
The United States is also affected by the 
Third World plight. Kim estimates that 
Latin American cutbacks in U.S. imports are 
the cause of one percent of the U.S. 
unemployment rate. 
The International Monetary Fund's 
austerity program imposed on Latin 
Garry Trudeau 


American countries with foreign debts is alarmingly reminiscent of the policies towards debt-plagued Germany after World War I. If it becomes desperate enough, this tenuous situation invites violence and ex­tremist regimes. Kim emphasizes that the debt is as much a social problem as an economic problem in Latin American coun­tries. 
Knowing how to help Third World development can only come from understanding the particular culture. Let's face it, a society which jobs to stay thin and demands multi-colored toothpaste has a long, hard road to traverse to come to understand cultures which struggle to fulfill the basic needs of survival. Different tradi­tions and religious further complicate the picture. Our ideas for modernization may not fit the cultures' possibilities. In­dustrialization is not always the best answer to development. Often it benefits the upper eschelon but doesn't bring bread to the most desperate. The individual must always be remembered. Policies must be examined for how they will affect the poorest of the poor. 
ODN at Notre Dame, as part of a nation­wide network, is trying to make a small con­tribution to a grass roots type of develop­ment. Contact people for the national organization approach villagers and ask them what they need. We will choose one project such as acquiring new equipment for a fishery, implementing a small-scale irriga­tion system or establishing a library or a school and support it through campus fun­draising. We like this approach because it br­ings aid to a personal level. We can stay in contact with the community that we are help­ing and make it possible for people to help themselves. 
Most of all ODN is proof that each seem­ingly insignificant college student can challenge inequality and injustice. We are the leaders of the future. We can open ourselves to a greater awareness of the Third World now. We can make a life-long com­mitment to socially responsible decisions and reject enslavement to pure profit-maximizing goals. We can be the ones who refuse to believe that exploitation is a necessary evil. It is up to us to ensure that the riches of the earth are shared among all the members of the global family. 
Sheila Kennedy and Sophia Twarog are members of the Overseas Development Net­work. 

Quote of the day 
"Catholic girls are like whif­fle balls; a lot of effort and very little distance." 
John Powers 1981 Sophomore Literary Festival 
-The--Observer  General Board  
Editor·in·Chief................... Joe Murphy  Business Manager .  . . Ertc Scheuermann  
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303  Managing Ed1tor . ............... Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor........... . .. Scott Bearby  Controller. Production Manager.  . Alex VonderHaar Chrts Bowler  
Sports Editor~  ........ Dennis Corrigan  Photography Manager .  . . James Carroll  
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer·  Accent Editor. .................. Mary Jacoby  Advertising Manager.  . Anne M.Culligan  
sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the  Saint Mary's Editor. ........... Margie Kersten  Photography Manager. .  . ... Drew Sandler  
policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately  Executive News Editor. ............ Frank Lipo  Systems Manager. .  . .. Dav1d Thornton  
and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of  News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz  Graphic Arts Manager .  . Mark Weimholt  
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of  News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski  
their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free  
expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged.  Founded November 3, 1966  
r  




Accent 
Friday, Aprilll, 1986-page 7 
Refugees find life in South Bend, world 
been granted by willing recipient ..
by KATHY ROE nations. features writer In regard to the United States, the relocation of arriving refugees 
.\ •·. ~~~.f;
is governed by a group of national . ...... f. 
. /' ~
Recently, the term "homeless" voluntary agencies. The majority \ 

\L.. 1 ' . ~. --f
has become a favorite buzzword of of these agencies such as the 
American journalists. While this Catholic Relief Services and the ·~ ~:-. r~ term is currently used to refer to a Church World Service are con­growing class of impoverished nected with various religious '.,J 
Americans, there exists another denominations. class of homeless individuals -After reaching Thailand, the refugees. Fieus were approved for immigra­
Refugees are, in a sense, not only tion to the United States, joining without homes but withol!• coun­Ang's brother-in-law who had tries. Since the mid 70s with the rise already come here. In response to of political turmoil in Southeast his request then, the United Asia, there has been a continuing Religious Community Task Force exodus of refugees from countries on Refugees organized a sponsor such as Vietnam, Cambodia, and group of three South Bend families 
Laos. 
to aid the Ficus' relocation. 
Many of the refugees escape Basically, there are two means by simply to save theri lives while which these agencies learn of others are driven out of their coun­refugees needing help. The first tries. Yet what happens to them process in referred to as "relative 
J ,.
once they reach the temporary reunification," and it occurs when shelter of refugee camps? 
resettled refugees notify the volun­<j I In South Bend, the United 
tary agencies of relatives still re­
Religious Community Task Force Two Cambodian families helped by South Bend refugee relief-From right to left byfamily, Father Dy Sieu, his
maining in the camps and request a on Refugees is responsible for fin­wife Ang, and their children Pisith, Sathya and Visoth. Also pictured are Anne Chinn, sister ofAng Sieu, and
sponsor to bring those individuals ding and assisting refugee sponsors to the United States. her son Viccheas. Mike May/The Observer for this area. As a communications The other process is referred to 
up with housing. Over the past more in return," for the refugees The tutors work with groups ofnetwork, this volunteer group as a "free case" and entails the year, Moreau Seminary has helped have much to offer as friends and eight to ten refugees every Saturday represents all local churches and weekly distribution to the various fill this need by hosting refugee as role models of courage. from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. in thesynagogues. According to Task voluntary agencies of lists of groups on a temporary basis, utiliz­Ultimately, the goal of the spon­Badin Hall conference room ofForce Coordinator Carol McDon­refugee candidates for immigra­ing its available rooming space. sor is to have the adult refugees University Ministry. Emphasis isnell, over 800 refugees have been tion. As with relative reunification, Also, since many of the refugees ar­employed and self-sufficient within given to encouraging the refugeesresettled in the South Bend region each agency then attempts to find rive with little more than the one year of their arrival. The main to speak English amongsince the program's start in 1979. individuals or groups that will clothes on their backs, the sponsor barrier to achieving this goal is the themselves.
One beneficiary of this local pro­sponsor the relocation of those will obtain for them a supply of inability of most refugees to speakgram has been the Cambodian refugees. 
food and clothing until they begin English. 
While helping them to learn thefamily of By and Ang Fieu. They The role of the sponsor is essen­
recetvmg payments from the 
Many of the refugees are able to English language, the tutors alsoarrived in South Bend in 1980 with tially supportive. A sponsor is not federally-funded Indochinese receive English training five days a help the refugees learn abouttheir two children, a nephew and legally or financially liable for the Refugee Assistance Program. week at the First Methodist Church American culture. One way inAng's sister after having fled the refugees, but rather liability is the Not only does the sponsorship in South Bend. Last semester which this is accomplished is byrepressive regime of Pol Pot. burden of the national voluntary 
program benefit the refugees, but
The Fieu's escape from Cam­agencies. though Margaret Garvey of the taking the refugees on what mightthe sponsors gain from their offer­University Ministry initiated a sup­be called field trips. Rabogliatti
bodia began with a terrorizing six­Commenting on this program, ings of time and support. As a cur­plementary, more personalized state that on a past Saturday theday journey across the border to a Ang remarked that the sponsors rent sponsor, Richard Conklin of tutoring program for refugees tutors went with the refugees to therefugee camp in Thailand. To had eased her family's transition to 
University Relations observed, "It 
which is run by Senior Mark deli in LaFortune and answeredavoid the enemy gunfire of Viet­American life, for it is very dif­
is the irony of Christianity. You go 
Rabogliatti and seven other Notre their questions, such as "What's anamese and Pol Pot soldiers, the ficult to adopt a new language, to help, and you're helped even Dame and Saint Mary's students. pop tart?" 
Fieu family was only able to travel customs, and food. 
at night. No particular program guides the As with most refugee families, as activity of sponsorship. Instead, soon as they leave the refugee the involvement of the sponsor is 
Moreau "Odd Couple"
camps their fates are largely out of determined by the needs of the par­their hands. The refugees are ticular refugee group. Normally, relocated worldwide, after ap­the sponsor will meet the arriving one is and anal retentive whereas
By PATTI TRIPATHI was a leverage to show we have the proval for their immigration has refugees at the airport and set them the other is an anal expulsive," said 


INKA 
a.... 
"Shoah" --"greatest use of 
Notre Dame and the Jewish Federation ofSaint Joseph Valley will Claude Lanzmann's "SHOAH"-afilm about the Holocaust that allows the victims, perpetrators and bystanders to tell their stories. "SHOAH" 
uses no archival footage, but rather features death camp survivors, Nazi 

commanders, historian Raul Hilberg, and Polish villagers who still 
live on the edges ofthe former camps to realte a detailed account ofthe 
horrors inflicted upon the European Jews. Critic Gene Siskel said ofthe 
and one halfhour movie, "SHOAH" is the greatest use offilm in 
history." The film will be shown Sunday in twoseries.from 12 to 
p.m. and continuing from 6:30 to 11:45 p.m. in O'Laughlin Tickets are $3. 
talent to put on a production over
Cunningham, a 1984 Notre Dame
features Staff Writer here," said Plate. "Producing and · 
psychology and pre-med graduate. 
directing this play has been a great
"Oscar asks Felix to live with him 
time."
Should one share a roon with 
when Felix's wife abandons him.
one's close friend? What 
The show enacts their extreme dif­
"I don't
characteristics should one give im­ferences to portray which will win think people have a misconcep­portance to when looking for a pro­out: love of friendship or the ir­tion of Moreau. In fact, most don't spective roommate? Questions such ritating behavioral patterns." have a conception at all," said Cun­as these are in the minds of many as ningham. The location of the per­they await room pic~s this year. 
Other characters are Speed, Mur­
formance will convey that Moreau 
ray, Vinnie, Rey, Gwendalyn 
is not "just a fortress across theThe Moreau Players will examine 
Pigeon and Cecily Pigeon, played 
lake." It will be an opportunity tothese questions this weekend with a 
by Frank Lenox, Daniel Lizarraga, 
visit Moreau as well as to develop apresentation of Neil Simon's play 
James R. Skypeck, Jim Palmer, 
"conception" of its residents. 
"The Odd Couple," a fundraiser 
Kerry A. Dixon and Kathleen M.
for the South Bend area's Asian Loftus, respectively. 
refugees. "We want to share what we have -such as the auditorium and our 
"The Pigeon sisters provide the enthusiasm -to the Notre DameOften roommates who do not best aspect of the show. Not quite
share common interests and community. We're not going to
Americans, they are very funny.
disciplines may have a very recruit people to become a priest,"
They provide the awkward moment 
peaceful living arrangement. But 5aid Cunningham. 
of the first datin experience for the"The Odd Couple" dramatizes the four have become unaccustomed toopposite situation in which two "It's been a lot of fun. It has athe dating scene at their stage inroommates are the antithesis of great purpose behind it. Hopefully,life," said Cunningham. 
-
each other. 
the show will be able to raise the mon E. Plate, a 1983 government money to make a differenceAccording to Cunningham, Nor­
"Come on over and enjoy. It's major, came up with the idea to economically to the refugees," said something we would like to show Maguire.
produce the play, creating a wor­you. Pay for whatever the enter­thwhile project by making it atainment is worth and those dona­"The Odd Couple" will becharity fundraiser. 
tions will be given to the Cambo­presented today and tomorrow in dians," said Ed Cunningham, the Moreau Seminary Auditorium publicity manager. "In fermentation of the idea we at 8 p.m. 
wanted to do two things: promote The play's main characters are community spirit in a non­
Father Griffin's column, Oscar Madison (Michael McGuire) academic setting and raise money and Felix Unger (Gary S. for the southeast Asian refugees in 
"Letters to a lonely God," and Chamberland(. The conflict South Bend," said Plate. 
Chapters 23 & 24 of "The Gipper's 

j
between the two occurs because Plate has successfully directed 
Ghost" will not be running this Oscar is a compulsive slob whereas other plays such as 'Harvey and 
week due to techn\~ difficulties Felix is a neat-nik. "They are on the 
Mr. Big" after completing training 
but will return ne1<fWeek in opposite ends of the anal spectrum: in the field some time ago. "That 
Friday's The Obs.rver 
-----~-----------------------­
The Observer Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 8 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO 
RIDE NEEDED FOR 3 PEOPLE TO SENIORS .......... SENIORS 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
MIAMI OF OHIO Moving to • new city? LEAVE 4-18, RETURN 4-20 CALL 3674 Need • roommate?
Semi-furnished house good neighbor­
Classifieds c-I Pl8cement Servlce8 C8n help.
hood call after 4-255-3684 277-3604 i.N·ee·o·2-GRADUATiON..TiCKET.Siiii.iF 
Stop by or calf 239-5200. YOU ORDERED EXTRAS, I WILL BUY 



Sports Briefs 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-811117. 
Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 
TYPING -Fast, High-Quality. Call 287· 9257 
Typing/Wordprocessing 277-8131 
PRO. TYPE -15 yrs. exp. student & law papers, resumes, dissertations. 277­5833. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for a week at Fort Walton Beach, South Padre Island and Daytona Beach I Hurry, call Sunchase Tours for more information toll free 1-IIOQ-321·5911 TODAY! When that last teat is over ...Break for The Beach with Sunchase! 
LOST/FOUND I 
MISSING: WOOLRICH KHAKI HOODED PARKA. LOST IN FRONT OF MORRISSEY LAST THURSDAY NIGHT. GENEROUS REWARD OF­FERED FOR ITS RETURN. PLEASE CALL WIWAM AT 3451 WITH IN­FORMATION. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
LOST: LAST FRIDAY, APRIL 4TH, AT THE AMERICANA DURING THE HOLY CROSS SYR, 1 BLUE BACK-PACK CONTAINING IMPORTANT ITEMS. IF FOUND. PLEASE CONTACT MARY AT 284-5176A.S.A.P. 
FOR RENT 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS.272­6306 
ROOM $100/MO 277·2045 
WANTED ] 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040-$59,230/yr. Now Hiring, Call 1­805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 for current federal list. 
NO SPANISH INSTRUCTOR NEEDS REASONABLE ROOM/BOARD NEAR NYU FOR YEAR 86-87.CALL KEVIN 291-2878. 
Earn $41100-5000 this summer as you gain great business experience. Be the NO Sales Director for Campus Connec­tion, our proven, nationally expanding col­lege advertising guide. We provide complete training, materials, and support. Call Andrew Goorno, Publisher, at (415)324-4060 after 7PM weekdays or anytime weekends. Ideal for an ambitious underclassmen. 
COUNSELORS: Summer boys resident camp in N.E. High salary, travel allowance for students with skills in basketball, baseball, soccer, sailing, tennis, archery, fencing, com­puter, pioneering, ropes, bicycling. Also openings for AN's, LPN's. For luther in­formation call 914-381-5983 or write to Camp Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y. 10543. 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. BEFORE 10. 
RESPONSIBLE NO JUNIOR, female, will sit with children (or house), perform household chores, in return for room and board.References available. 283-2762. 
GOT TICKETS FOR COMMENCEMENT ?? Need 2 tix. Will pay $$$. Call MARK at 2287. 
WORK WANTED. HARD WORKING MAN NEEDS MONEY FOR GRAD SCHOOL. EXTERIOR PAINTING AND 
LANDSCAPING.  GOOD  
REFERENCES.CALL  DON  (616-695­ 
2369).  

Getting rid of your bike? Don't junk it! Donate it to a needy family. Call George at 283-3457 for info. 
Excellent typist with computerized word processing skills needed. Part time/flexible hours. Send resume to Text Processing, Ave Maria Press, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
THEM. PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 277­1067. I AM DESPARATE!I!!I 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$ AND CREDIT! Cliff notes avallalble. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 233-2342 
BRAND NEW! Ross ID-speed. Includes tool kit, tire pump, 6' steel calble & lock. $99. Call Greg. 232-6153. 
5 BDRM House. Fully furnished. All ap­pliances & furniture included. Great in­vestment. Nice neighborhood. 4 miles from NO. $22,000. Call evenings 288­3109. 
Dad bought one too many. FOR SALE: Brand new Macintosh carrying case. STILL IN BOX, NEVER USED. Call Glenn at3451. 
'77 DODGE, 51,000 MILES, BELONGED TO MY GRANDMOTHER, GREAT SHAPE LITTLE RUST, P.B., P.S., NEW BATTERY. BIG BACK SEAT FOR S.Y.R. DATES ASKING $1,200 (NEGOTIABLE) CALL MARIA 284-5048 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? CaN 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline, counseling & free pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages of the Campua Telephone Directory. UM themtodayl 
86 SUBARU $6,243 86 FIERO $9,995 86 GRANC>-AM $9,11115 86 SUNBIRD $8,11115 86 FIREBIRD $10,5115 86 MERCURY LYNX $5,888 86 ESCORT $5,987 86 OLDS CALAIS $9,199 86 HORIZON $6,500 ACC APRIL 18TH 
There are Official Notre Dame Track and Field T-Shirts and Sweat tops left (very few left). Please hurry and purchase one or as many as we have left. T-Shirts are $8 and Sweat Tops are $15. Call Tom at 239-7634 for more information ...this is top quality merchindise. 
SENIORS .......... SENIORS Moving to • new clty? Need • roommate? c-& P18cement Servfce8 C8n help. Stop by or C81f 239-5200. 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours tonight: 5pm­12am. 
CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS 
CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS 
CHICAGO CLUB SWEATSHIRTS 
Get them at The Cellar! 
WANTED: GRAD. TIX WILL PAY WELL. CALL BETH AT 277-8549. 
ACCCARSALE APRIL 18TH CALL MARIO MANTA for more information 236-2201 
.
................................................................ 
Matt the chick magnet Happy 20th Love, your SMC chickies 
To lhe beautiful McCandl... chicks we talked to at NY Street Saturday. WHO ARE YOU?? WHERE ARE YOU?? Jim & Rick 
PHEBEUS I LOVE YOU AND YOU'RE THE BEST. FOREVER LIBEAR 
To the guy In lght blue ahorl8 who I pl8yed In Bookator. (Bruno?)-Stepan 4, Mon.-Who ere you?I·Thegfrl w/the whl T·ahlrt 
SUMMER IN EUROPE (ND/SMC STUDENTS)-FINAL CALLI LONDON PROGRAM(MAY 21-June 20)Trevel In Ireland, Scot,Eng, Frence. ROME PROGRAM(June15 -July 14)Trevel In Frence, Ger,Swltz,ftely.FOR INFO CALL PROF.A.R. BLACK 284-4460 or 272-3726. 
ANNOUNCING SOUTH BEND'S OWN GENT EVENT TIVOLI'S APRIL 13TH, 1986 BIDDING AT 8pm TICKETS $5 IN ADVANCE, $7 AT THE DOOR CALL VAC AT 232-2522 COME BID ON OR WITNESS THE AUC­TION OF 25 OF THE MOST ELIGIBLE BACHELORS' 
A Dancin' Irish organizational meeting for those interested in trying out will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in the Lafortune 
Little Theater. For more information call Patty Perez at 283-1511. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC gymnastics 
club will hold a mandatory practice today at 4 
p.m. to elect new officers. -The Observer 
NVA fencing and team 
tennis entries are due today. The fencing tournament will be held April 14 and 15 from 6 to 8 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym and is for novice fencers. The team tennis tournament is a single-elimination event to be held April 19. Both tournaments will include men's and women's divisions. For more information call NVA at 2 39-6100. -The Observer 
Secondary 
continuedfrompage 12 
Three veteran walk-ons who are also working hard for 
position in the secondary are juniors Chris Kvochak, 
Visovatti and Mark Oleksak. All three have worked out 
the team prior to this spring and have seen action 
the regulars. 
And although there is still work to be done in the 
secondary, Forbes realizes that there is plenty of time 
his squad to reach its goals for the fall. 
"Let's put it this way," he says. "I'm certainly not 
pointed with the way things have gone this spring. I 
think we can expect anyone to reach September form 
April." 
EXTRA POINTS -The Irish will hold their scrimmage of the spring season this afternoon in Dame Stadium. The workout is scheduled to begin at 4. 

NORTH SNACK BAR LATE NIGHT WITH UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES OPEN DAILY "F" LINE OF NORTH DINING HALL -7:00 PM -1:00 A.M. 
SPECIAL PRICES EVERY NIGHT! 
WHOLE OR BY  THE HUDDLE GRILL BURGERS,  COKES,  
THE SLICE!  
FRIES,  COFFEE,  
HOT DONUTS  ONION RINGS  JUICES!  
FROM THE  
BAKERY!!  FRESHLY MADE  
CHILI  

POPCORN •••••••35 ICE CREAM SHOPPE LEPRECHAUN PIZZA 
-
Cone/Cup 1 Scoop .49 By the Slice •••• .90 2 Scoops .89 12" Cheese•••••• 5.40 NACHOS ••••••• 1.00 Extra Toppings .85 ea. 
Shakes ••••••••••• 1.25/1.65CHILI DOGS ••• 1.25 Malts •••••••••••• 1.35 14" Cheese•••••• 6.00 Banana Splits •••• 1.89 Extra Toppings •• .95 ea. 
WE DELIVER ! ! 


Reserve Some Tables SUNDAES -"Create Your for Your Section Party! Own Masterpiece11 
Sma11 -$1.10 Large -$1.50 
The Observer Friday, April I I, I986 -page 9 

Cahill 

SPRING'S A-POPPIN' 
continuedjrompage 12 
reason for his winning ways. "Tony is such an enthusiastic player and his attitude is so good 
·that you really enjoy watching him play," Fallon says. "He plays his heart out on every point and, especially in 1'1 [
singles, he's a real closer. He can have a tough first set, but he'll come on strong and put his opponent 
Come share the beauty of Riverside.
away. That's a sign ofa winner." 
To keep his success going, Cahill We cordially invite you to attend on: says he must improve his serves and volleys. He credits senior joe Nel­Saturday, April 12th ligan ami junior Tom Greier with 
10:00 a.m. to 3:00p.m. •••••• ·'-1) ()(0·•..••• 
sharing some of their experience to 
help him. Sunday, April 13th r--------------~, -------------Nelligan, in particular, has a 12:00 a.m. to 3:00p.m. 

t1fADOLIADTfD5 INC.
chanl·e to help Cahill on a first-hand hasis since the two form Notre 
1671-A North Riverside Dr. 119 Oiwiewav N (U.S. 31 N)
Dame's number-three doubles team. 
(2 blocks south of Naugles)South Bend, IN 46616 2.3.3-2212
That doubles team has an impressive I2--4 record and Cahill says he en­joys the doubles competition a bit 
VCR Rentals 10$ Overnight 
more than singles, just as he enjoys the team aspt·ct of college tennis includes 2 movies more than the individual competi· tion that his high school participated 
call for reservations 277-1744 
"I think doubles is a little more fun 
FREE life -time membership to
than singles, but I have a little more success in singles," he says. "I also 

in. ND/SMC students and faculty J
like the team concept in college. You have to root for your 
l PLUS 1 overnight movie rental
teammates, which brings you closer 
52929 u.s.31 rlorth 
as a team. 
"With every match counting a.~ Ddlwory ...-...... --­-------------------------------------­
With this coupon receive a
only one point for the team, every mat<:h is equally important and that 
The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents:
makes it much more interesting." Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price 
The Irish have received their 
Medium Pizza for Small Pizza Price 
shart• of points from Cahill this season. Cahill's only singles losses have come in his first match, and against very touJ.~h opponents from (Delivery Orders Only) 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient Ril-e and Baylor during the spring 
popular devotion "The Stations of the break trip. Fallon has high praise for 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" his number-four singles player. 
along Christ's path to his resurrection.
After 5 pm on Fri.-Sat. Only
"lie's been a real find for us," Fal· Jon sap•. "All of our freshmen have done the job this year, but he's probably been our most consistent (Limited Delivery Area) out of the bunch." 

The Wav of the Cross 
Accordinito the Gospel of Mark
Cahill, who plans to study den­Offer expires Aprll19
277-5880
tistry, says he likes what he sees in the Irish team and thinks the team 
~-------------------~--------~ 

should fare well the remainder of tht· st·ason. 
"We'vt· been doing pretty well all year and, even though I really don't know how good our remaining op· poncnts arc. I think we should do pretty well," he prt·dicts. "Hopefully we can win our conference, which is definitely one of our main goals." 
Cahill and the Irish face Indiana State Saturday and Ohio State Sun· day, both of which should give the Irish "good tests," according to Fal­lon, coming off their impressive win over Ball State Tuesday. 
Both matches begin at I0 a.m. at the Courtney Courts. 





Bookstore 
continuedfrom page 12 
we thought we were out of it," he said. "Hut somehow joe got us up." 
Mr. Coffey and the Non-Dairy Creamers, playing without the injured Milt jackson, nonetheless coa.~ted to a 2 1-9 victory over Horny But Moral. Manuel Cano and Dave McGuffey each scored five points to lead a balanced scoring effort. 
former varsity basketball player Tom Sluby shot 8-for-14 from the field to lead Goldprick and the Wiretappers pa.~t G and the Spots, Z1·12. joel Rump also scored 8 for thl· winners. 
The first round draws to a close today as the two remaining seeded teams yet to play come out to break a sweat for the first time. Port-A-Pit, featuring joseph Price, takes on Panic State at 6: I 5 on Bookstore Court 10. Also, Leone's Stallions is matched against Content's Under Pressure at 4:45 on Stepan Court 2. 
Bookstore Basketball XV takes a vacation this weekend, allowing for those students attending Senior For­mal. It will resume Monday with 

OPENING LATE SPRING 1986!! 
IN OLD LATHE WORKS PROJECT ON THE EAST RACE 475 N. NILES AV SOUTH BEND, IN. 



234-1954 
55 ROOMS RESTAURANT/LOUNGE MARINA (FALL '86)/BOAT RENTALS KITCHENETTES 

Adaptation and Lyrics by Georgia Weber Bain and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19and24,25,26 
General Admission $4 Group rates available Call (219) 239-5957 
-+t---clip and save ·-----------------.,... 
icll *
DELIVERY~·AUGLES8 HOURS: 5·00 Midnight 272-5455 * 'N' 501 Dlxieway North, Roseland, Indiana * 
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! * 
MEXICAN KI~~H~~ AM~~~~~~4 ~~~~n~EN * 
Taco l.Og CUSTOM GRIU£0 NOT STOCK MUD "-'.....
1_
69 
Burrllo• Naugteburger 1.99 ~ Bean 1.79 2.49 2 Patties with the works ~ Meat 2.39 3.29 double cheese Jllllllf" 
Combo 2.09 2.79 
*
C~ 1.89 2.59 Delu~te Hamburger 1.39 
Make any bwnto wet for 50 cents!! 2 Patties with lettuce, 
tomato, mayo dressing 
*
P.S. Don't order mncho unless you're ready fOJ ll 
pound of goodies! Hamburger 1.19 2 PlltUes with pickle. ketchup, 
*
Nachos A CheeH 1.19 mustard, onion Have some roauce lor no extra chlllrge to spice them add chef'se 20 up that much more '-'..._ 
Mocbo Nacho"• 2.19 DESSERTS ~ Refrled beans, ch1ps. cheese, peppers. mild meal 
*
Hot Fudge • Hot CaraJ'IWI • Strawbmy • Orang. 
sauce. spicy green sauce! Bluebmv • Chocolate • Chmy • Vanilla. • Root Beet 
* 
Tostada Grande 3.29 Shake• I .09 (In a shell wonderful) Sundaes 1.49 R'9 Plauer Fudge Brownie .69 ,..., Mexican Salad 1.29 
2.89 P..tf\1 .69 ..,..... 
To•tada Combo 1.59 2.09 , Fudge Brownie Sunda• 1.69 
* 
Chtle Ole' .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 DRINK UPI Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Cold&everagn Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders liter · .94 
* 
Want II a special way just order It! 
Pepsi, Diet Pep~o, Roo! s-. Ml Dew Enchilada'• (Ph1tter of 21 
Dr Popper. Welches. Sunk'"· I.-monad< Ice Tu, Milk, Orange Juk:eMeat • lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 
*
*
Chicken 2.50 Hot Be-verattn · .47 
Coffee. Hot Chocolate. Hoe Ttra
DINNERS 
* 
,.1 Enchilada · 1 beef 
SIDE ORDERS 
French Frte. 
*
,.3 Meat Burrito .99 
Retried Bean• .99 ...........
,.4 Chee•e Burrito &. Tacb 
with chill NUCC Complete With Mexican salad. refried beans. chill & " ~ 
Nacho Chi.,-. 
cheese. guacamole. sour cream & a pile of rhlps .89
G•aca...&e Fresh. Fresh. Fr~ 
.39 
*
.IS
A dlnnt'T wtth enough Wh ovet lrn tomorrow's LUNCH1 Solar Crc•• 
4.79 E•lr• il':...._. for .tiiYf:iWDI .50 .. 
second round action. Plus tax on prices · $5.00 mlntr.lUm order ~ 
------~-~·clip and save··---------,_,~ 
The Observer Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 10 

Holtz proving he means business in tough spring workouts 
continuedfrom page 12 
when we lose our priorities, when usually sense when you're on the accept their role, and what we try to Q: What changes can we expect 
Q: What other things did the football becomes more important same page. I did have some concern do is define everybody's role. Not to see in the offense as opposed players do in terms ofoff-season than our religious life, when football about a sen.se ofhumor when I came everybody can be the coordinator, to what we've seen in recent 
conditioning? becomes more important than our here because many people on the but everybody can make a major years? studies or our family. I think we also outside gave me the advice that contribution. We tried to bring a 
A: Other than the morning get in trouble when we put social Notre Dame wants a football coach staff together that had a blend of A: I really don't know. It's hard to workouts, they spent time in the ahead ofthe other priorities. who is very serious and always very recruiting, coaching and teaching say. You will see some type ofoption weight room. I think we have to get solemn. I've come to the conclusion experience. Some people will be as part of the offense, not the entire bigger and stronger, and yet we've Q: In the past, you've been after being here that I probably am a more responsible in the area of X's offense, but you will see some type got to become thinner and faster. known to be very animated and little bit more solemn than I have and O's, but all of them have their ofoption. I think the option presents You do not have a chance to win if vocal with your players on the been in the past, not because strong points and they all compli­an awful lot of problems for the you're carryinga 20-pound albatross sideline. How do you see your anybody has told me to but just be­ment one another. The most impor­defense. Contrary to what people on your back, which we refer to as relationship with the players? cause ofthe awesome responsibility. tant thing, I think, is that they do get believe, you do not need a great, extra weight. The weights will help I can't believe Notre Dame brought along well, and I know I have great talented quarterback. But I'm not us to become these things. To say A: I think that many things can be me here to change me, nor do I respect for them. talking about running an option of­that we don't have people who can taken out ofcontext. Ifyou spend 33 believe they brought me here to fense. I'm talking about running an run would be a real misconception, hours a season on the sideline, and change Notre Dame. I love the Q: What role do you want your option play as part of the offense. but we must increase the overall hopefully 36 with a bowl game, and . things Notre Dame stands for and its assistants to play? What are their What we do will be contigent upon speed ofthis team. if a camera is on you the entire time, values, so I'm going to be myself and most important responsibilities? what our players are capable of 
they can find every type ofbehavior, if I have something that I think is doing. I don't think there's any 
Q: You were a player yourselfin even though it might not be natural. funny I'm going to say it and just A: Their most important respon­doubt we have receivers who can college. Did you draw anything I would like to think that on the pray that it's taken in the right vein sibility is to the athlete. When get open and threaten people deep. I from that experience that carries sideline I am enthusiastic. I also like and it's in good taste. I've never tried dealing with an athlete, you can have don't know whether we can protect over into your coaching 
the passer well enough to throw the phllosophy? ball. I don't know how good we'll be 
in our ability to get the ball to the receiver on a continuous basis. You 
A: I definitely did. I have great com­cannot throw twice as many inter­passion for the poor, slow athlete ceptions as you throw touchdowns that is unappreciated by a coaching or get sacked an average of fourstaff that's always looking for a big­times a game and expect to be very ger, stronger and better athlete. I good on offense. Offense is based on have great compassion for the young consistency. What are we going to man on the football team that works do? I don't know. Whether the other 
exceptionally hard and does not get ingredients besides receivers are to play. 1 have great compassion for there to have an outstanding passingthe young man that's part of a great game, that I don't know. I do not win but comes out of the locker believe you can win in college foot­room without having made a great ball by throwing the ball 50, 60 contribution during the course of times a game. If you don't have the the game. I have tremedous compas­ability to run the football, you'resion for a young man that has a bur­never going to be very good on ning desire to be competitive and defense, and we've got to be a yet sits on the sideline watching defensive football team ifwe want to 
people who have superior ability win.! don't know how you become a 
just going through the motions. I defensive team play
good if youthink all those things have been touch-tackle. You must be able to 
reflected in the overall attitude I've run and you must be able to throw. 
had in coaching. We do play a lot of Y<)u must be able to do both of them people in a football game. We do when everybody in the stands believe that if a young man works knows which one you are requiredhard and continues to improve and to do on that particular down. If you is patient, we should be able to find a can do that successfully. then mix in way that he can make a contribution the unexpected. you've got a to Notre Dame football. All these chance. 
things have come about because of 
the fact that 1was not a good athlete 
Q: How about defensively? What 
and experienced many of those 
kind ofchanges will we see? 
things that we just talked about. 
A: I've been impressed with our 
Q: How do your early-morning to think that I'm well aware ofwhat's to make any humor at the expense of a prominent role in formulating a talent and our quickness in the workouts, etc., relate to the 
going on. The players usually are somebody other than myself, young man's philosophies and in defensive secondary. I think we have phllosophy you are trying to es­going to reflect the atmosphere that though. helping him set goals. That's some fine athletes there. We will be tablish about team discipline is generated on the sideline by the probably the most rewarding thing a little bit more aggressive than and commitment? leadership ofyour assistant coaches, Q: When you put your coaching in coaching. You're not going into maybe what the average team in the 
your senior players and yourself. On staff together, what kinds of coaching because of financial country is. We plan on attacking
A: We talk about a 6:15 workout as the sideline, if the coach doesn't things were you lookingfor? rewards because they're minimal them. 
being difficult and yet that's 11:15 in have much faith, the coach thinks 
compared to the amount of time youLondon. I think everything is bad things are going to happen, the 
A: I think chemistry is so important spend. Just like I was playing a golf Q: You've made it 'clear that relative. We all have 24 hours a day, coach thinks you're going to lose, if 
course one time, and I said. 'Boy. this you're not promising any60 minutes to an hour and 60 the coach appears to be disor­is really expensive green fees they miracles for next year, but what 
seconds to a minute, and it's how we ganized and disoriented, your foot­charge.' I was complaining and the is a realistic prediction?
spend them that is really important. ball team usually will reflect that. "We want to do the best we guy said, 'Well, .it's not real ex­I've never had a problem with an in­There are times where you've got to pensive figure per
can, and when this season if you it out A: I am not a prognosticator.
dividual if he was here at the Univer­take strong leadership action to 
stroke.' I think the same thing bought one of the first Edsels. That 
sity for the same purpose we are. We is over I don't want 
change some situations that are applies to coaching. Ifyou figure out came off the market, so, I can't really
want to see that he gets an educa­going I think that there have
on. 
anybody on our football per hour, this isn't a very rewarding tell what the future holds. I can saytion, progresses as a person and been times when I've gotten upset 
field ofendeavor. What is rewarding that our goals and our dreams will be becomes part ofa fine football team. on the sideline, but that's much team to ever say, 'We could is the relationship you have with the quite lofty. maybe not realistic, but I don't think discipline is forcing more of a rarity than when I've got­have done this if I had only athletes and seeing them develop they will be quite lofty. I believe it 
somebody to do something. It's 
ten excited about what's just done that.'" and grow. That is so important. You would be a total disservice to these showing them how this is going to transpired. 
cannot win without talent but you footba.ll players to set anything other help them in the long run. You don't can lose with it, and that's where than a high goal. We owe it to the go about to establish discipline. You coaching comes in. Nobody's ever seniors on this football team to giveset rules and you enforce the rules. Q: Coach Faust always used to be to have in a staff. There are a lot of won without having the talent. them every chance we possibly can You just tell the athlete that you ex­up in the tower for much of things that you look for. The first to leave here as winners. They came 
pect him to do what's right, do the practice. Will you use the tower? Q: has a of
thing you better do is get people you There been lot here four years ago with hopes and 
best you can and treat others as 
can trust, people that are com­speculation about what your dreams and expectations, and we you'd like to be treated, and that's 
A: We'll use the tower every day to mitted, people tqat like other role with the offense is going to are not building for the future. We'll 
how we're going to operate the film, but I will not be a tower coach. people. I feel fortunate that we have be. How much ofthe offense will put it on a firm foundation, but we program. Everybody says I'm a dis­The thing that I enjoy doing is teach­
a group of people here that do get be a direct reflection of lou aren't going to make any decisions ciplinarian, and I'm not. A person ing, coaching, working, and I will be along and I think arc good teachers. Holtz? to solve an immediate problem andwho won't do what's necessary isn't very active. I know that lot of
a Everybody has to accept their role. jeopardize our long-range goals. By a bit better than one who can't. 
people say that you don't have time People must accept their role, and A: I think we all make a contribution, the same token, we have an obliga­to do that at Notre Dame. that the coaches must accept their role. we all add things in. I would like to tion to every senior on this football
Q: How important is the mental demands on your time won't allow Players play, coaches coach and ad­think if it goes well it's because of team to do whatever we can to see 
part of the game to playing win­
you to do it. IfI have to stay up until ministrators administrate -there the assistant coaches, and if it that they win this year. I don't want
ning football? 
three in the morning and get up at should be no overlap. You tell a doesn't go well it's usually because the athletes to come back 1 5 years 
A: I don't uunk that you can possibly 3:15 to do it, I will be active in group of people to get on the bus of me. We're going to do what we from now and say, 'Boy, I wish our be successful if you don't have your
I coaching. and everybody wants to drive. think gives us the best chance to coach had believed in us. Ifthey ever 
I life in the proper perspective. I think Nobody wants to wash the windows, 
win. We aren't going to run a knew how hard we were willing to 
priorities are first thing that we have Q: You're also well-known for pump up the tires, or change the oil. popularity contest. We aren't going work or what price we were willingthe proper perspective.
to put in your one-liners. How much does Everybody wants to sit behind the to poll the fans in attendance at the to pay, we could have been good.' 
must define your priorities. I can 
~ 
You this carry over into your wheel. Well, not everybody game and inquire as to how many of We want to do the best we can, and 
would hope that the priorities on 
dealings with the team? drive the bus. Ifeverybody wants to them think we ought to run or pass when this season is over I don't want 
our football team are: religion, one's drive the bus, we're going to have a on football team
on a subsequent down. We'regoing anybody our to family, academics, football and then A: If you have a good relationship, lot ofarguments and no progress. By to make decisions we think will give ever say, 'We could have done this if social. When we have a problem is you can make them laugh. You can the same token, our coaches have to us the best cha~ce to win. I had only done that.' 



ACROSS 1 Jab 5 Weakens 9 Recedes 
13 Twinge 14 Buffalo-Albany 
canal 15 Hushed 17 Make an 
entrance 8 Ganbaldi's birthplace 
9 Re·ddish-brown He tkberry re.. ative 
21 Fenway Park hero 23 Finjs fault 
with 25 Metric measure 26 Vivacious 27 Pointer 31 Velvet cloth 33 Ward off 35 DOE 36 WoJodsman's 
tool 37 Reception 38 Pound 39 Dessert Item 40 Sharpened 41 Leper 42 Cellarer 44 Spruce 45 Wrath 46 Vexed 50 "King of 
Waters" 54 Snoop 55 Juridic 56 Bristol's 
river 57 Antitoxins 58 Cucurbit 59 Thomas or 
Whitelaw 60 Trudge 61 Unites 62 Whirlpool 63 "-Well That 
Ends Well" 
DOWN 1 Called 2 School: Fr. 3 Arboreal 
creature 
'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All R•ghts Reserved 
4 Range of 
knowledge 5 Of six 6 Originate 7 Ancient Scots 8 Soothsayer 9 King's 
attendant 10 Loafed 11 Tuckers 12 "-and ye 
shall find" 16 Numerical 
prefix 21 Long ago once 22 Former 
Belgian Congo 24 Queue 27 Trained 28 Giddiness 29 Edible pods 30 Equipment 31 Soft foods 32 Entry 33 Await judgment 34 Hail 37 Movie star 
Wednesday's Solution 
GEESE  HALFIAWED  
l  A T E X  U R A L  N A V Y  
I S A A C B E L LIE  F U S E ~~ IF IT I HIE IBI All IL  

E N S~T U R F B E S I D~ E Ml E R A L D S AN 
0 N. SAT UIR N. 
0 R E s 0 
UT. T 0 
WE L I C r• L tiM I ~-N E A L c H A R A DM A L A R M s 
L E V I A G A 
,!.,J,,£.10 f T "I pARTy 
c K s•c 
T U T U T I R E S P I R E ALES ILIA ESSEN M U S E rc L 0 D S E E K S 
38 Diving bell 47 Shun Inventor 48 Flynn of film 40 Pinter and 49 Pairs 
Lloyd 50 Math subj. 41 Tale teller 51 Kitten's plea 43 Warlock 52 The shivers 44 Chic 53 Extraordinary 46 Put the bees up 57 Resort 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


Animal House 
"The funniest film of the yeor." 
7:00, 9:00,11:00pm Friday, April 11th, 
$1.00 $1.00
Saturday,April 12th 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
--.------~-~---­
------~---~~-~--­

Vince Willis ofThe Crayon Erasers goes up againstjim Hagan of Digger Phelps and 4 Other Guys Who Choked on a Little Rock duringyesterday'sBookstore action, in a game won by Digger and company, 21-12. Mike Cardinale bas details of yesterday's first round games in his story at right. 

Cahill's comeback was a boost for tennis team 
ByRICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Illness kept Tony Cahill from rack­ing up victories for the Irish tennis team at the beginning of the season, but few opponents can say the same since the freshman's health has returned. 
Cahill had the flu, but that turned into pleurisy. That turned Cahill into a spectator. He has returned with a vengeance, however, and since his return he has compiled 11 wins in 14 matches. After wrestling with the illness, Cahill says frankly t\lat he ex­pected some success. 
"The illness just kept me fi:<?m playing for a few weeks," he says. "lt.~ justaffected my conditioninga little. 
"Now that I'm playing regularly, I'm not really surprised with my record. I'm playing about as well as I think I should be, so I expect to win some matches." 
Winning is nothing new to the Hinsdale, Ill., native, who was the first student from Fenwick High School to be seeded in the top eight in the state tournament. Notre Dame head coach Tom Fallon says that Cahil!'s mental makeup is a major 
see CAHILL, page 9 
Friday, April 11, 1986 -page 12 
WBBS wins first game in 9 minutes as first round play draws to a close 
By MIKE CARDINALE "I think we're as good ifnot better tion staged one of the best come­Sports Writer than last year," said Dressel. "W.e're a from-behind victories of the little bigger and our shooting is just tournament thus far. Trailing 18-13 
Often in first-round Bookstore as good. But it's a much tougher year to Wolverines, with darkness falling play, one of the dominating seeded this year, and there are a lot more on the Stepan Courts, joe Euteneuer teams puts on a basketball clinic tough teams." rallied his team to a 22-20 victory. against a greatly-overmatched op­
Euteneuer shot 11-for-27 from the ponent. Such was the case yesterday, field, while teammate Tim Smith was as WBBS with Ed Smerciak Bookstore perfect, scoring on all seven of his devastated The Children of Earth attempts. Dog, 21-5, needing only nine Basketball "I think it was more of a kind rim minutes and 29 shots to complete than great shooting," commented
XV 
the massacre. Smith. "Also, I had a slight mi:Sm;atcnJ 
Senior Dan Dressel led WBBS with with the guy who guarded me." 1 0 baskets on 1 1 attempts from the Ultimately, WBBS would love a Matt Connely, another Guy field. Dressel was an integral mem­second crack at Fun Bunch Finale, Good Moves, seemed to have ber oflast year's team that made the the team that eliminated them last best explanation for the comeback. final four with sharp shooting and year. "We were pretty relaxed becatJse 
excellent teamwork. This year, In other action yesterday, 5 Guys 
see BOOKSTORE, page 9
WBBS might be even better. with Good Moves But No Penetra-

Stiff competition in ND secondary is making everybody work harder 
By MARlY STRASEN AssistantSports Editor players. I'd say they're all equally 
Forbes. "'Wells is gifted with talented because the one who plays 
speed and has excellent raw talent. "George Streeter has been ·
A little friendly competition never best is usually the one who con­hurt anyone. In the Notre Dame centrates the most on any given day. microcosm of the entire seiCOJlld:;tn Right now he isn't an
defensive backfield, spring competi­"Our cornerbacks started out safety but he has the potential
tion is making everyone work a little playing very well. They opened the develop into one. He has been
harder. 
pleasant development so far, but
"What we have at this point is 
some really good competition for 
Spring realizes that he is playing at the postion as one ofthe best athletes
positions," says Irish secondary 
Football 
the country in Brandy Wells." 
we're really good right now but I '86 junior Steve Lawrence is probable starter at free safety 
coach Terry Forbes. "I don't think 
think we have the potential to do some very good things in the spring playing some good ball. As a Notre Dame, but a knee injury future." group, they seem to have leveled off fered earlier in the week will 
But with the talent battling it out a little bit. I'm hoping they'll pick it the veteran sidelined for the four starting positions in the up again and start progressing fur­
remainder of the spring. That backfield, the future might be ther up the scale. They can achieve things up for junior Jim Bobb sooner than one might think. new levels with some hard work." freshman Aaron Robb, as the 
Both starting cornerbacks from Another position up for grabs at hopefuls are getting a close last season are returning in the fall this point in the spring is at strong from Forbes in spring practice. and a third veteran is challenging for safety. The graduation of Pat Ballage "Steve Lawrence had played 
a starting spot. Senior Mike will leave the spot wide open come well the whole spring before Haywood and junior Troy Wilson fall. Sophomore speedster Brandy went down with the injury," were the regulars for Gerry Faust in Wells is a proven athlete and fresh­Forbes. "'That provided the 1985 and junior Marv Spence has man George Streeter continues to tunity for Aaron Robb and Jim proven he can do the job. open some eyes with his early play. to get some work in. They've been 
"I'm very pleased with Streeter, doing some good things out then·."
"Mike Haywood, Troy Wilson and Marv Spence have all played a lot," and Brandy Wells has continued to 
see SECONDARY, page 8 
says Forbes. "They're talented improve in each practice," says 


Holtz tradition starts with rigorous spring drills 
With spring practice in full swing, some of the ques­tions about what Lou Holtz would do in his first season as Irish football coach are being answered on the field. Larry Burke and jeffBlumb of the Obseroer sports staff recently talked with Holtz to learn more abouthis coach­ingphilosophies andbow thosephilosophies relate to the Notre Dameprogram. 
Q: What are yourpriorities during springfootball? 
A: Number one, we want to improve each and every mem­ber of this football team. We'll improve them fundamen­tally and do everything we can to make them better. The second objective we have in spring practice is to be able to evaluate our athletes on the football team, what their skills and talents are, what our liabilities are, but basically to be able to evaluate. The third thingwe would like to do would be install an offense and defense that gives the players a chance to win. As a football coach, you can only give the players a chance to win. The players are the ones that succeed. Then, the last thing we would like to do is start to bring in the team concept ofplaying with one another. 
Q: You have the reputation for running very tough springdrills. Whyis itimportantto beso toughinthe spring? 
A: I think that is an image we have always wished to project. They really aren't much different than the ordinary death march. It started out when I went into a situation, which I don't feel we have here, where we wanted the athletes to really feel they accomplished something by going through it. We would award T-shirts to people who were outstand­ing in spring practice that would have such sayings as "Spring Practice Survivor" and things of this nature, which gave the players a little bit of a feeling that they endured something really exceptional. You need to bring athletes together. We will not have any more physical or demand­ing spring practice than what we're going to need in order to be successful. We need to give our players a chance to win, and that can only be done sometimes in a difficult environment. You cannot make steel without going through fire. We will have some hitting and it will be physi­
cal, but not any more than what it absolutely has to be. 
Q: Your 6:15 a.m. workouts during the winter were well-known across campus. What type of things did you concentrate on during these workouts? 
A: The reason we went at 6: 15 in the morning initially was not to find out who wanted to play and not to prove that it was going to be tough. I think that's a misconception that people have. I don't think you have to stand out in the cold without a shirt to prove you're mentally tough. I think you're being unfair to the players ifyou put them in a situa­tion that's not going to make them a better student, a better person or a athlete, and so we don't do anything just to prove that you are in command. Discipline isn't having people do things out offear. Discipline is having people do things because they know it's in their best interest to do it. You can take a gun to everybody's head and make them do anything you want to, but in the long run that's not going to be successful. It's self-discipline. We started the winter workout program at 6:15 on Mondays and Fridays because we felt it was important that we got to know our athletes, they got to know us and yet it was also important that we continue to recruit. It was the only way we could spend time with the athletes and still continue to recruit. 
see HOLTZ, page 10 

/r~h headcoach Lou Holtz 



