r 
Sports treasure -page 10 

-

VOL. XX, NO. 139 MONDAY, MAY 5, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tutu writes to priest as fast enters fifth week 
By BILL D. MORRIS 
NewsSraff 
Bishop Desmond Tutu, Jesse Jackson andChicago mayor Harold Wahington have all recently of­fered support for Father Basil van Rensburg as the visiting South African priest enters the fifth week afhis fast tomorrow. 
Van Re nsburg, who is fasting in an effort to get the Board of Trustees to vote for divestment at its meeting this weekend, received a telegram from Tutu last Wednes­day. 
"We support your resolute stand and hope that the trustees of Notre Dame will take the right moral decision," Tutu's telegram said. 
On Saturday, Van Re:nsburg held a press conference in Chicago which was attended by Washington and Jackson. At the conference, 
Jackson  delivered  a  speech  and  
prayer, Van Rensburg said.  
Also sending their support  was  

the Bishops Council of South Africa said Van Rensburg. 
The Council has also issued its strongest plea to the west for economic sanctions above and beyond divestment, he said. 
"Joyfully, peacefully, prayerful­ly," is how Van Rensburg described his progress. "It has brought me closer to the Supreme Being." 
Van R·ensburg under the strict supervision of medical advisors, has retained excellent health. Sus­tained by water, Van Rensburg cur­rently weighs 174 pounds, down from the 209 pounds that he called his "corporate paunch." 
see FAST, pageS 



SMC students receive obscene calls from fake pollster of sex attitudes 
ByCINDYHAU 
News Staff 
Several Saint Mary's students recently have received obscene phone calls from someone sup­posedly conducting a sexuality survey for the National Education Association, according to Saint Mary's Director of Safety /Security Richard Chlebek. 
A representative of the education organization said, however, it is not conducting a sexuality survey. 
"From time to time, we get a call asking if we're conducting the survey. That's how we know (the caller) is still making the calls," said the representative, who asked that her name not be used. 
One student, who said she receiv­ed a call, said she did not realize it was a prank until she hung up because the caller "sounded so con­vin,cing and legitimate." 
"(The caller.) asked all of the questions, even the obscene ones, in total seriousness," she said. 
"(The caller) started out, asked general questions about my family and raising children -'How many brothers and sisters do I have?' 'Do I feel I was raised well?' 'Can I got to my parents when I have pro­blems?' " she said. 
"Then(the caller) started asking questions about my attitudes toward sexuality and incestual rela­tionships. I began to feel uncom­fortable and hung up," she said. 
Chlebek said Saint Mary's students were alerted to the obscene phone calls after approximately six ladies reported receiviag them. 
"Each student received a flier in her mailbox concerning the anonymous caller," Chlebek said. 
Although the problem does not 

· seem to be widespread, Chlebek said he believes there may have been women who simply hung up on the caller and did not report it. He said his advice to women who receive the phone calls is the "same advice your parents gave you ­don't talk to strangers." "Students should not "plav.~ · tive or become clever .wtfh the caller, as it onI': -<ncourages (the caller)," C.bkotk said. If a student does receive an obscene call, Chlebek said she 
should report it to Security im­mediately. AIthought there are no records of any woman receiving more than one of the obscene calls, students who have recieved one can ask to have their calls screened by Security, he said. 
The calls were reported shortly after spring break, but students hav e recieved them since early first semester, according to some Saint Mary's students. 
"l never reported it because 1 felt so dumb for not just hanging up," said one student, who spoke on the condition her name not be used. 
Another student, who also asked her name not be used, said the caller probably had not chosen to call Saint Mary's specifically, because other area women also received calls. 
"(The caller) called in the middle of the afternoon and was very sincere," one student said, "but when (the caller) asked if I heard of the survey from anyone else, I got suspicious and hung up. Then (the caller) called my neighbor and on down the hall." 


SMC speaker's 'pro choice' stance to draw protests 
By THERESA GUARINO 
Senior StaffReporter 
Pickets and protesters will ac­company caps, gowns and degrees at Saint Mary's commencement ceremony this year. 
A demonstration planned by local anti-abortion groups is scheduled for graduation day in protest of commencement speaker Congresswoman Barbara Kennelly of Connecticut. (Related story, page 3.) 
Opponents say that according to Congressional records, Kennelly has a pro-choice voting record in the House of Representatives. 
Organizations planning on picketing include St. Joseph Coun­ty Right to Life, Democrats for Life and several area Protestant churches. 
Burnie Bauer, national president of Democrats for Life, an anti­abortion caucus in the Democratic Party, said Kennelly voted pro­choice in four of the five roll call votes dealing with abortion in 1985 in the House of Representatives. Kennelly was absent for one of the votes, Bauer said. 
In an interview with the Observer Thursday, Kennelly said she would rather not address the pro-choice issue on the phone because of its complexity. 
"Canon law says anyone who helps another procure an abortion is excommunicated," said Bauer. "By voting as she did, she's helping someone." 
Bauer said he sent letters to Col­lege President William Hickey and members of the Board of Regents, expressing his dissatisfaction with Kennelly. In the letter he asked that Saint Mary's either withdraw its invitation or announce publicly and during Kennelly's introduction that the College is honoring Ken­nelly despite her stance on abor­tion. 
Bauer also said he "sent letters directly to the regents that he knew" and mailed the rest of the letters in care of Saint Mary's. According to Bauer, one regent, whom he declin­ed to name, has contacted him and expressed support for the group's position. 
Hickey said he was "completely surprised" upon learning of the planned protests and called it "an unfortunate situation." 
Hickey said Kennelly is a "devout practicing Catholic who has demonstrated clearly how one can effectively use the legal system in Congress to promote women's rights." 
"She (Kennelly) is a person who has fought very hard for women and now is being chastised," Hickey said. 
Kennelly is responsible for many bills promoting child care, the family and women's equity, accor­ding to Hickey. He also said he finds the protest difficult to understand when Kennelly's record is objectively assessed. 
"Every group has a right to their opinion but they also have the responsibility of being objective under each question and situation." 
Virginia Black, a member of the bmrrd of directors of St. Joseph County Right to Life, said that in a vote last week, the board decided unanimously to picket the com­mencement ceremony. Black called 
see PROTEST, page 3 

Trustees to discuss minorities, divestment 
By JIM RILEY 
Copy Editor 
An increase in the student ac­tivities fee and a report on minority student issues will be discussed by the student affairs committee of the Board of Trustees on Thursday, said Bill Healy, a student representative to the committee. 
The Board of Trustees as a whole, in their annual meeting Friday, will review the Univer­sity's divestment policy and discuss the replacement of Father Theodore Hesburgh as University president, according to William Sexton, vice presi­dent University Relations and secretary of the Board. 
When the chairman of the Board, Thomas Carney, con­cluded discussion on University investments at last October's in­terim Board meeting, "a com­mitment was made for a review of the policy six months later to examine its effectiveness," ..said Sexton. He also said it would be reasonable to expect this ex­amination of the investment policy to take up a comparative­ly large time of the Board's meeting, which will last all day Friday. 

The chairmen of seven com­mittees, including the student affairs committee, will make presentations to the Board Fri­day, according to Sexton. 
The student affairs committee is considering an increase in the student activity fee from $35 to $55, said Healy. Five dollars of the fee increase would be ear­marked for WVFI. Proceeds from the balance of the fee in­crease would be distributed among student government, the 
classes  and  various  clubs  and  
organizations.  
The  committee  will  also  

discuss a report on the problems see TRUSTEES, page 5 

The Observer Monday, May 5, 1986-page 2 

Saint Mary's students Anne Easterday, a business/accounting major and Karen Lombard, an economics major and mathematics minor, have been selected to participate in the Early-Entry Program for the Graduate School of Business at the University of Chicago. Under the program, 30 outstanding juniors from 15 select institutions throughout the country are ad­mitted to the graduate school, based on the recommendations of committees at their respective schools. Students receive full­tuition scholarships to the MBA program for the summer session between their junior and senior years. In addition, they receive credit toward a masters degree for any courses they complete and may enter the MBA program any time within three years following completion of their undergraduate degree. -The Observer 
volunteer service awards have been presented to two Notre Dame seniors. Farley Hall's Teresa Donovan, Cincin­nati Ohio, received the John Gardner Award for service beyond the Notre Dame community, and Morissey Hall's Kevin Flynn, In­dianapolis, Ind., was presented the Rev. Leonard Collins, C. S.C. Award for service to Notre Dame students.-The Observer 
Of Interest 
The Battalion of Midshipmen of Notre Dame 
will hold their annual Spring Awards Ceremony today at 4:30 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Among the many awards presented will be the Distinguished Midshipman Award to Mid­shipman Michael Leary and the Reserve Officers Association Award to Midshipman Anthony Kremer. Captain John Rohrbough, Commanding Officer of the NROTC unit, will pre­sent the awards. -The Observer 
"Values and the Special Mission at Notre Dame" will be the topic of a panel discussion with the undergraduate and Law School deans tomorrow from l to 2:30 in the Center for Social Concerns. All faculty are invited. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's Honors Convocation, which wm 
include school and department awards, will be held tonight at 7:45 in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. A reception will follow in the Moreau courtyard or, in case of rain, the O'Laughlin lobby. -The Observer 
The Shuttle for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will stop running for the semester Monday, May 12 at 6 p.m.-The Observer 
The last Senior Class mass will be celebrated with Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson Sunday., May 11 at 8 p.m. at the Grotto. -The Observer 
The Senior Class is sponsoring a visit to the Grotto with University President Father Theodore Hesburgh Wednesday night at 9 ... The Observer 
Adopt-A-Transfer volunteers are needed for next fall. Call John Byrne at 283-1431 or Bill Ryan at 288-6296 for more in­formation. -The Observer 


Weather 
Boy, it looks like warm weather today -too bad you 

have to stay in and study for finals. But while you're cramming, look out your window and imagine what fun you could be having in that SO-degree weather. It will be partly cloudy and breezy tonight with a 40 percent chance of ~hunderstorms after midnight. Parly sunny, windy and warm tomorrow with a 30 percent chance of thunderstorms and a high in the low 80s. -AP  
Goodbye. This is the last regular issue of The Observer for the 1985-86 school year. A commencement issue will be published May 16. The Observer staff wishes good fortune and luck to all graduating seniors and a safe and relaxing summer for all return­ing students. See you in August! Th~ Obecrv~r ( l:sPS t;99 l·-4000 l is published Monday through Frida)' except during exam and vacation periods.lb~ Observer is published by the students ofthe l'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions rna}' be purchased for 1.\0 per year ( $20 per semester) by writing lbc Observer, P 0. Box Q. Noue Dame. Indiana -4M~6. The Obecrver is a member of lbc Associated Press. All reproduction righls are ,rcvrvcd  
The Observer News Department is now hiring for the following positions: • Assistant News Editor • Copy Editor A personal statement and resume is due by 5 p.m. Monday. Questions should be referred to Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski  



Xenophobia: dropping a big word 
Only two people died, the Russians said at first. The world, especially those people in the Scan­dinavian countries, knew differently. 
Why would the Russians make such a feeble at­tempt to hide such a major disaster from its neighbors to the West, neighbors who were affected by the catastrophe, who had significant evidence that a malfunction had occurred and who had the technology to assist in helping the Russians cope with the crisis? 
Looking back through my years of high school and college government courses, one word sticks in my mind when describing Russia, "xenophobia,'' fear of the foreign. My professors always emphasiz­
ed  this  word  as  a  starting  point  toward  
understanding  the  Russian  people's  secretive  
posture.  

I remember my Western Civilization professor in high school telling the class to go home and drop the big word on our parents as a sign of how much we were learning. 
Now several years later, another incident arises which indicates the Russian government still refuses, to the point of jeopardizing the lives of its citizens and its neighboring countries' safety, to publicly recognize failure on its part and to seek outside assistance to correct this failure. The difference in the Amencan and Russian perspectives could not be clearer. The American response to the Three Mile Island accident was much more pronounced although much less serious. 
In the recent Russian mishap, the Russian public was barely informed, let alone alerted. One wonders if the incident would have been reported at all if the outside world lacked the monitoring equipment it has.• 
Several decades ago, 30 villages disappeared from Russian maps. What happended to these small towns remains a mystery. 
Canvassing the Russian landscape, the silent posture does work to their advantage in many in­stances, although certainly not in this most recent one. 
The New York Times, if one scanned it closely enough Friday, had a four-paragraph note on the seven-year war in Afghanistan. What made the arti­cle of special note was that it said the fighting had reached an all-time high; however, what kept the ar­ticle so brief was a lack of information. 
The brief relied totally on rebel leaders' assessments of the situation. No one from the Soviet or Afghan forces were cited. 
"Afghan rebel commanders said today that Soviet and Afghan warplanes were killing and maiming hundreds of their men in nonstop raids on rebel posi­tions,'' The Times stated. 
In the next paragraph, the article cited a senior rebel commander as "calling it the heaviest aerial bombardment" ever amassed against the rebels. 
Yet, for all of this, the notice was a brief on page five. 
The Soviets' natural tendency for silence and the manner in which they have helped make it extremely difficult for outsiders to report on the Afghan war have created a virtual news blackout on the struggle. 
It is much easier for reporters to cover newer, more accessible and safer events than an old war with little at stake except the freedom of an unim­portant people who have been forgotten by the West. 
Joe Murphy 

Edltor-ln.Chlef 

The free world has a short attention span, and the Russians know this. At present, the "hot spots" are Libya and South Africa. Beirut and Nicaragua and Ethiopia are moving to the backburners of public in­terest. The front pages are now filled with more im­portant things. 
Yet, to the people of Afghanistan their daily strug­gle is as important as ever. To the people of Ethiopia, though a recent Times brief mentioned the worst is over for them, the struggle for food con­tinues not for a day, but forever. Yet, the attention and, thus, the assistance they now receive have decreased dramatically. 
Combining the West 's short attention span and the Russian's desire to keep the West's attention even shorter threatens the West's long-term future. If the Russians use their position in Afghanistan to move on Iran at some point in the future, the gain would strike at Western interests and boost Russian's oil capacity and give it a warm-water port. 
Such scenarios are no more unlikely than a nuclear facility malfunctioning in Russia. 
The West does not need to pay greater attention to Russian actions, but more sustaining attention. The situation is no more resolved in Afghanistan today than seven years ago, and the same issues of world security and Afghan freedom which then prompted such an enormous plethora of Western news coverage still exist today. 
What the West, and specifically Western reporters, must do is monitor the Russians over the long-term development of specific events such as keeping the world informed of the changes in Rus­sian nuclear posture over the next several years as a result of this recent disaster. 
Ironically, if the Russians had notified the West immediately of the problems at the Cherobyl nuclear power plant, the reaction of the West may have been one of gratitude rather than outrage. All of Mikhail Gorbachev's public relations efforts lie in the rubble in Cherobyl. His repeated calls for a new openness ring hollow. 
Next fall, I am taking a course on the Soviet Union. I suspect my professor will cite the Cherobyl incident as evidence xenophobia continues to shape Russian political philosophy. 

HERTZ FEATURES THE EXCITING FORD THUNDERBIRD 
• 
All Major Credit Cards Accepted 

• 
Call For Our Low University Rates and Holiday Special~ 

• 
Current Notre Dame and St. Mary I.D.'s Acc('pled, With a Cash Deposit. Must be 18 or Older. 


234-3712 

----~~~ -----------~~---------------------­
The Observer Monday, May 5, 1986-page 3 

Protest 
continuedfrom page 1 
the demonstration "routine" and said that the group "has no choice." 
We have to do everything we can to change this, including working in the political arena," Black said. 
Protestors will not enter College grounds, since that is private pro­perty, but plan to picket the en­trance to the College at the front gate. Black said that the group is currently in the process of inform­
ing  its  members  of  the  
demonstration.  
Bauer,  a  former  Indiana  state  

senator and representative, pointed 
to five abortion-related roll caB votes taken by the House in 1985. The votes dealt with matters rang­ing from a condemnation of China's forced abortion policy to the restriction of U.S. funding of abortion facilities in foreign coun­tries and in the District of Colum­bia. In the five votes, Kennelly voted pro-choicr on four, and was absent for one, Bauer said. 
Hickey said that all five votes were votes on one of many amend­ments to major bills in Congress. For example, the vote condemning and withholding funding for Chinese state-forced abortions was part of a $13 billion U.S. foreign aid bill, according to Hickey. "China is one of hundreds of na­tions that the U.S. sends aid to," Hickey said. 

Bauer said he believes that by choosing Kennelly, Saint Mary's is setting up a negative role model to graduates. 
Hickey said that Kennelly was researched and approved by the Board of Regents, who are "pleased with their choice." 
He compared the situation to the demonstrations surrounding the choice of Salvadoran President Jose Napoleon Duarte as Notre Dame's commencement speaker last year. "There were protestors, but they were given their chance and didn't disrupt or interrupt the ceremony. The graduation went well and so will ours." 
1985 THUNDERBIRD.........WAS 9299 .......... NOW 8799 1985 COUGAR •........... WAS 9499 .......... NOW 8999 1985FORD TEMPO..........WAS 7299-......... NOW 6899 1985 FORD MUSTANG.......WAS 7499 .......... NOW 7199 
MICHIANA REGIONAL AIRPORT/234-3712 
MON.-THURS 9:00AM-6:00PM, FRIDAY 9:00AM-7:00PM 
All Advertised Cars Subject To Prior Sale •Each car comes with the Her1i 12-Month/12,000 Mileage Warranty. This free limited Power Treln Warranty covers both parts anc' l.abor on your engine, transmission, drive • nett and differential tor an entire year. Ask for tutl details. • Each car is selected from the 'tnestln the Hertz rental and lease 


CarSales 
fleet and has its cNn Service Maintenance Record which you can check belore you buy. •Most cars come Equipped with air conditioning, automatic transmission, power steerins & brakes, radial tires. and AM radio. Warranty is transferablf' lo suc.::aedinr;, The Reliable #1 retail consumer Maintenance records not avail~~le for lease 
©1986 The Hertz Corporation 
vehicles. 

Mora pooplo buy quality used cars from Hertz than from anyone else in the world! 

Kennelly: 'I'm honored to speak at College' 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
"I was quite delighted and honored to be asked to speak at Saint Mary's commencement,'' said Barbara Kennelly, the College's 1986 commencement speaker. 
Kennelly, a Connecticut Con­gresswoman since 1982, said she usually speaks at one or more graduations each year and enjoys doing it. 
Kennelly said she can gice graduates an interesting perspective because of her background at a woman's college and said she may also serve as a role model to students. 
Several pro-life groups are plan­ning to picket the commencement ceremonies because of what they call Kennelly's pro-choice votes on several bills in Congress. 
When asked about her position on the abortion issue, Kennelly said she would "rather not address that issue on the phone," because of its complexity. 
Kennelly received a B.A. in economics from Trinity College in Washington D.C. and completed the Harvard-Radcliffe Program in Business Administration. She earn­ed a Master's Degree in Govern­ment from Trinity College in Hart­ford, Conn. 
Kennelly said she has not chosen her topic for the speech yet but add­ed, "I put a lot of time into the talks and I have talked to as many young people as I can. I try to address their concerns and thoughts and ask them what they would like to hear." 
Kennelly has worked in the local, state, and congressional levels of politics and said, "I like politics and I am content as a public official." She said the most impor:_tant asset in a career is to "believe in yourself and what you are doing. Prove you can do a job and do it well." 
Women have a good future in politics, Kennelly said. "There will definitely be more women in the lower levels of government but it is more difficult to move up." She said this difficulty increases as a woman rises in politics, citing that there are only 22 women out of the 435 members in the house of Representatives today. 
She said the. first woman presi­dent is "not far away," but it might be better for women to be vice president and then "go for the top spot." She said she would "con­sider" running for president some­day. 
"Economic issue are the most im­portant issues for women to be con­cerned about today," Kennelly said. There is an increase in the number of women working and she said she would like to see the pay and pension protection of workers improved. 
Because of Kennelly,s background at a woman,s college, she said she can "relate to the graduating students and has a feel­ing of deja vu" when she addresses those audiences. 
. Saint Mary's will award Kennelly an honorary doctor of laws degree at the commencement ceremonies on May 17. 

FRIDAY, AUGUST 29th: 'Crewcuts on the Quad' 
You pay $10 to get a crewcut in the middle of South Quad, the money goes to charity and you get a T -shirt that says: 'I shed my hair because I care.' 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30th: 'Camp Out on the Quad' 
Everybody brings a blanket and a pillow out to sle~p on the quad (remember kiddies, no parietals outdoors!) 
Don't choke on tlaosefinalsl Have a great Summer! 

The Observer Monday, May 5, 1986 -page 4 



Hickey's early plans did not include presidency 
By MARGIE KERSTEN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
When he came to Saint Mary's as a part-time biology professor in 1960, William Hickey's plans did not include becoming College president, he said. Twenty-six years later, however, Hickey is doing just that. 
"My definite goal was to pursue a department chair position and then dean of faculty, which I did," said Hickey in a recent inter­view. 
Hickey said that when he was acting president for the first time, in 1974-75, many people en­couraged him to apply for the presidency. But after looking at all his options, he decided not to become a candidate at that time. 
When the position became available again this year, however, Hickey said he "felt the exact opposite this time." He said he did not want to leave his post as acting president and return to his position as the dean of facul­ty. 
Hickey said he sees "exciting things happening academically in the future." One thing that will happen is the creation of an addi­tional writing requirement at the College. This "advanced W," 

data 




systems 

DID YOU KNOW? 

As a faculty, staff or student of this institution, you can take advantage of the ~' low educational pricing for the PC compatible members of our institution. 

PC Compatible
ZW-241-82 $ 2399 . 
20 Meg HD 
MS-Windows 
ZF-241-81 $1799 
1.2 Meg FL 

ZF-148-42 $ 999
Both include: 512K Mem. Exp. to 16M 1-Serial & parallel port clock/calendar 7 open expansion slots MS-Dos 3.1 
PC At Compatible 
Z-158 PC 
PC Compatible 

p------------Ordering Information----------­
·~· 

Fourway Computer Products Inc. 51061 u.s. 31 North South Bend, IN 46556 277-7720 
~~~-.-:--:---:-~-CHOOSE ZENITH/FIRST CHOICE OF MILLIONS1------­
~..J ••.6 • .,,,.· .t.~ •• -.e'.,, -••·'••·•• ft t#r ••••••• ,.. 
ZW-158-43 $1399 
20 Meg HD 
MS-Windows ZF-158-42 $ 999 
2 drives 
Both include~ 256K Mem. Exp. to 
1-Serial & parallel port 
4.77/8 MHz clock switch Color graphics adaptor 5-6 open card slots MS-Dos 3.1 

data 

systems 
When Thtal Performance is the only option. 

which will be taken in addition to construction programs, as it has the present writing requirement, in the past. will develop writing skills in the Hickey also said Saint Mary's is student's major, Hickey said. now within $275,000 of the $25 
This program will go into effect million goal of the college's fund next year, and will not affect cur­raising program, EXCEL: The rent Saint Mary's students. Fund for Saint Mary's College. 
"We will continue to address 
the core curriculum re­
quirements," and a broader Third 
World exposure will be provided 
in the curriculum, he said. 
In the long run, Hickey said he would like to improve the faculty work environment. He said, "faculty have a heavy teaching de­mand placed on them," in addi­tion to their committee activities. 
Through an establishment of faculty development programs, Hickey said there would be a "gradual reduction in teaching loads," which would enable pro­fessors to maintain a high level of 
William Hickey 
teaching. Hickey said he may also at­Minority enrollment is also im­tempt to decrease from four to portant to Hickey, he said. 
three, the number of courses pro­Scholarships are necessary if fessors are required to teach each economically disadvantaged semester. students are to attend Saint 
This would take a significant Mary's, he said. amount of financial resources, he Hickey said he would like to in­said, adding the College would crease the diversity of the Saint work hard to raise money for Mary's student body. "A more "people" programs, that aid the diversified student body, faculty 
faculty and students rather than and administration would add to 
640K 
ZF-171-42 $1349 
Gray LCD Display ZFL-171-42 $1.149 
Blue LCD Disp1ay Both include: 

Portable 7.-171 pC 
Portable PC 
Low-CostCompatibleZ-148PC 
2 drives 

512K Mem. Exp. to 640K 1-Serial & parallel port 4.77/8 MHz clock switch Color graphics adaptor MS-Dos 3.1 Green or Amber Monitor 
2-5 !" drives 256K Mem. Exp. to 640K 1-Serial & parallel port Backlighted LCD MS-Dos 3.1 
Compatible 

the already existing programs," he 
said. 

The lack of minorities presently 
enrolled at Saint Mary's may 
hinder future minority recruit­
ment, Hickey said. A vicious cir­
cle may be in effect because the 
admissions office may attempt to 
recruit from a lower economic 
region, with minorities, but 
once the prospective students find 
out how many other minority 
students, or faculty are at Saint 
Mary's, they are discouraged. 
Interaction with students is even more important now than ever before, said Hickey. "There are ways that I am in constant touch with students," he said. 
Hickey said he is concerned with the feelings, questions and academic concerns of students and the entire institution. This year, Hickey has hosted open­door sessions every Monday afternoon from 3-5 where students could stop in without an appointment and discuss whatever was on their mind. Hickey said he plans to continue this for next year as well. 
"The key is ongoing com­munications. Many differences can be avoided if communication lines are kept open and used," he said. 
•Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsot 
•Amertcan Hydron 
•Aosoft 
•Bausch& Lomb •Obasolt •Durasoft 
$41.U ,­
• Tlllte4 L...... 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tmts 

• 
Crbasott Colors 


'63.97,. 
·~~~--l­
•AOSottcon $57/pr 
•Bao..olCI'l c!. Lomb 545/pr 
•Cooderii•SIOt\ 
Perm.i1ens S671 P< •CSIT 597/pr •Durasort 3 557/pr 
•Genes•s 4 !o'\'i/OI •Hydrc><urw 175/~ 
IF YOUR BRAND IS tlo()T LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PHESCRIPTI()N AND WE WILL SEND YQU A OuQTf. 
,--------------,
I 
I 0..-.[hwc..,. 0•••-------: I I
1 ,....•...,...,llid"""•'\JP\.IIfM~t~tntloftcUfti.Mt f I l#rt,.'Pf'f'•cttphofl f1.•M' c•~mp~lf' th3 a!WJ m..lu f 
1-•• ~':" ~,~.~~~~~·~~~ :~ _"'':~---I 
I  P4"•n"~-· ..:·  I  
R•u(.un.• Typ.  Ip,,..f',  
L  
L  
l •)•..._ ViC'•r , ••,.nclf.cl .... ,  
I  

I -------------------­
1 f•tl4>r·., .,.,....,.,,. 
L-------------­
All ''""' aullafttHI Iori! ,uatoty. 1111 art lopploe• 1ft lftl IIIIIUI IICllry Htltf fl!!l 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
• Aco... •,a .,r• • • ~ ~" P'P -:. ')'"''ac • 'f"·J 
~ (.f'l•nt• E'' 1." '"t' ~·Oflo• tK 0"" 
~~ Md•f~; ''E'C" """'(),.,Pv r;.r(j,... 0' CCYT"',t>!t.) r ·Eta.t Cd'O r-t• Jrma•or-. oa·,.tt· 0'"' !O(c S "< 
4 E: .,, O'!sP ""'arne aoo•r \S & orlQne n'"'...l()er •'~~ fP" 0'r}P' 
S Vd d nfC'~dt•<•'l I(J 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 C.rter Ill. 
a ........ ow. 441lt 
216/241-2416 
Contact Le'1s Suppl•e•s 
for 25 years · ,........... -------pein et ..., _______epeir. ur.o 
.,........... 
2.00 
•s...-.a~ 
.,.... 
................ 
,.,.........,.....
-:
dledt _,....... VISA ~ 
tPerSOI\AI CtleekS mus1 be clea•ecl proor to snopmen11 
-.-..,______ 
-
........................ 
•We ..k"'.,. ,.,acr;,t;eM., file
..._...
_ 
..... ., .........~-·­
.._.., ......., ,. ... ~­
,..._.. 
lfl•• ff."f.fif·f·~ 


----------~--------------------­

Monday, May 5, 1986 -page 5
The Observer 
J,ittJe  
4 SMALL SOFT DRINKS FREE WITH T'HE PURCHASE OF ANY SMALL, 2 ITEM, $6.50 Little Caesars Pizza  Pizza ONLY At Little Caesars 1349 Portage Ave South Bend, IN 233-3200  

Trustees 
continuedfrom page 1 
of minorities at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Healy. The report will deal with admissions, finan­cial aid, recruitment and place­ment of faculty, retention of students in their colleges, and the office of minority student affairs. 
The nominating committee of the Board will make a presenta­tion to the Board concerning the replacement of Hesburgh as president, said Sexton. 
•spnpo.1d .qeq Jt&Ja.l JO au11 JIDJ • aAvq OSJ& aM
·a3uafuaauo3.anoci .aojsndwD:J uo paiD30'J 
Exams got you topsy-turvy? We're right here on campus to serve you. Besides, we wouldn't want mom and dad to see you looking so shaggy!!! 
Sl.SI1VI:l3dS !>NIJ.J.n:> ~IVH ~3l.N3~ X3SINn 3:>1A~3S ,,n::t 


(JUamUJOdd\fliq S6UJU3A3) 
U&HU!P•B dap.IIQ&S S-8 ·p.:1 -·uow 9-8
I'J11S-6£Z (61Z) 

Specifically, they will deal with the input that has been gathered by surveys of the various con­stituencies of the University community. 
Healy said he will present the results of the student referen­dum on divestment to the stu­dent affairs committee. The committee will also consider a proposal for classes on alcohol and alcohol awareness and a proposal that student govern­ment and the Student Activities Board be put under the Univer­sity's unit budget control system, according to Healy. 


Fast 

continuedfrom page 1 
Supporting Van Rensburg both 
spiritually and financially, is the 
Notre Dame Anti-Apartheid Net­
work, which covers his medical 
fees. 

Van Re nsburg said he has receiv­
ed "many handwritten letters from Notre Dame students," Van Re nsburg ha also written letters to Univesity president Father theodore Hesburgh, the chairman of the Board of Trustees, Thomas 
Carney, and all other board members. 
If the Board of Trustees chooses not to divest, it "will show that the board is as profiteering as some American corporations, and they would be careless of all the deaths," said Van Re nsburg. 
Van Rensb't& said that he does not know how long he can continue fastin ~.\"but I'm still praying." 
Van R e nsburg hopes to meet all Notre Dame students and asks for their. continued support. 
He will hold a press conference this Friday in front of the Center for Continuing Education at 12:15. 
Sixth floor of library to close 
By BETH CORNWELL 
StaffReporter 
The sixth floor of the Memorial 
Library will soon be closed to 
students because of planned expan-. 
sions of the University Archives 
and the Charles and Margaret Hall 
Cushwa Center for the Study of 
American Catholicism, acc<'..~ng 
to the library's Associate ~r 
George Sereiko. 
All of thf" ~1'" carrols on the 
floor h.;i.Ye already been removed, 
in preparation for the construction, 
he said. The carrols will be 
relocated in other parts of the 
library, he added. 
"Essentially, the sixth floor will 
no longer be a part of the library 
facilities," said Sereiko. 
According to Wendy Schlereth, University archivist, the work will consist mainly of "knocking down some walls and putting others up." The construction probably will start two weeks after commence­ment and will last about six weeks, said Schlereth. 
The expansion is necessary primarily to accomodate the University's growing collection of archives. The bulk of the . con­struction will focus on the archives space, although the Cushwa Center will also be enlarged, said Schlereth. 
The various collections of documents kept in the archives in­clude University records, back files from the admissions department, and administrative records. The ar­chives also serves as a repository for such periodicals as Com­monweal Magazine and the Na­tional Catholic Register. 

' 
:t 
l The Observer t l South Bend police bust 
! 
\ 

t tavern birthday party 
i 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor 

t 
South Bend Police raided a

t 
student party at Duffy's tavern ear­ly Friday morning, taking three

t 
students away in handcuffs and is­s'uing citations to more than I 00 others, witnesses said. 
The witnesses were unable to specify the charges against the three students, who one witness said were from Notre Dame. They did say, however, that most of the citations 

f 
were issued to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students for being minors in a tavern. 

l 
The witnesses' reports could not be confirmed because South Bend Police were unavailable for com­ment Friday afternoon and this weekend. 
Drawn by birthday invitations

I 
touting a beer special, between 150 and 200 people were crowded into Duffy's at 12:30 a.m. when the raid occurred, according to one of those at the party, who asked that her name not be used. 

When approximately I0 officers arrived at the tavern, at 1150 Mishawaka Ave., the officers led the students out and checked them for proper identification, the witness said. Those without an J.D. were issued a $46 citation and allowed to leave, she said. 
Between 25 and 30 students avoided the citations by hiding in the tavern's cellar, while others showed false IDs, she said. 
Althcug_h officers brought a paddy wagon and seeral police cars, they only took away the three handcuffed students, the witnesses said. 
According to the owner of Duf­fy's, Burke Hammond, the number of patrons Thursday night "had gotten out of hand. But · they weren't causing any trouble what­soever. They were behaving themselves perfectly." 
Because the party was not a private one, not all those attending were from Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, the witness said. 




Queen's Castle &The Knights $5 student $8.50 complet cut style 
MIN AWAY.FROM CAMPUS 
272-0312 277-1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We at.o feat•r• the Royal Bronze S•ntanalag Center S.e a tan In mln•tee ... Not Houn lronw IE St. Roed 23 (Acroa From M•rtln'e)-­
'>
' 
! f 
( 
UNIVERSITY CENTER 
directly behind Jeremiah Sweeney's & adjacent to Macri's Deli 
Monday, May 5, 1986 -page 6 

Just wait 'til you sink your teeth into a delldous Rax sandwich! Our sandwiches satisfy you like nobody else's can because only Rax gives you sandwiches like these. If you're in a real hurry, you'll want to take advantage of our Drive:rhru window; but if you've got the time, enjoy your great-tastin Rax meal in our dellghtful Greenhouse Dining Room with its easy atmosphere that really lets you relax. There's no fast food clamor here. After all, 
Now there's more to enjoy at Rax's Salad Bar. Salad Plus Hot Nachos! Start with toasty nacho chips. Then heap on the excitement. Rich melted cheese, jalapeno peppers, refried beans, spanish rice, juicy tomatoes, onions, peppers, green chili salsa, 
sour topping and spicy taco sauce. · 
Only Rax gives you Hot Nachos! All at our low Salad Bar price. 

I ! 
( 
! 
I 
' 
' ! 
f 
( 
I 
( 
( 
I 
r 
I 
! 
~ 

~ 
I 
I 
I ~~ 


Monday, May 5, 1986-page 7 


Promoting social welfare has improved Church 
Saint Mary's speaker: Aiding contras harmful 
As I near the completion of three years as President of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, it occurs to me that I have had the interesting experience of seeing a familiar American axiom turned upside down. Never speak about religion or politics if you want to keep your friends, the old say­ing goes. But we have recently seen the Church talk with considerable vitality not only about these two topics but, more impor­tantly, on the ways in which they relate to each other for the common good of our pluralistic society. It is my view that the Church has gained credibilty in the process. 
Bishop James Malone 
guest column 

I hasten to dispel any notion that as outgo­ing President of the NCCB, I somehow claim credit for this phenomenon. If humility did not compel me to make such a disclaimer, a recognition of the intelligence of the readers of this publication surely would. I do not denigrate the contributions of any individual or group when I submit that a combination of the needs of the age and the supernatural dynamic of the Church have converged to make the message of the Gospel particularly compelling in the present day. Let me il-
Perhaps no issue before the Ccngress to­day has been more contentious than the question of aid for the contras fighting in Nicaragua. The argument has been heated; the rhetoric florid; the congressional tempers short. But as a member of a bipartisan con­gressional delegation visiting heads of state in Brazil, Argentina, and Venezuela, I had conversations with leaders who were able to shed more light and less heat on the issue. Our democratic neighbors to the south do not believe American intervention in Central America is in their -or our -best interest. I agree. 
Barbara B. Kennelly 
guest column 

Many of Latin America's democracies are new ones, but despite their youth, these na­tions are fierce in their dedication to their democratic institutions and unyielding in their commitment to preserve them. We in rhe United States should feel proud that the overwhelming majority of our neighborhoods to the south share our belief in democracy. 
The leaders of these nations have no illu­sions about Nicaragua. They view Daniel Ortega and his Sandinista henchmen as a real threat to their peace and security. Yet they do not want the United States to support the contras who oppose them. The leaders I met with offered three reasons for their views: 
First, they believe that the worldwide focus on American involvement in Central America tends to obscure an equally serious problem: the Soviet presence in that region. These leaders do not sleep easier at night knowing that there are Soviet and Cuban ad­visers in Nicaragua. They do not feel their own democracies are safer because the Soviet 
-;... 
"ONE." 

lustrate this point by referring to two "events" in which I have had the privilege of being directly involved. The first is the Ex­traordinary Synod of 1985, which I attended by virtue of the office I hold, and the other is the series of pastoral statements of our bishops, and notably the statement on the economy, over whose adoption I expect to preside at my final meeting as President of the NCCB this November. 
The Extraordinary Synod was devoted to the Second Vatican Council of 20 years earlier. Its purpose was to recall the Coun­cil's teaching, recapture its spirit, and renew the Church in the ongoing effort to imple­ment its 16 documents. 
The "Message to the People of God" from theExtraordinary Synod declared the Coun­cil to be "the great grace of this century" of the Church. This evaluation was a central conclusion of the Synod, and it is one which cannot be stressed too often. This approach emphasized Vatican II's understanding of the Church through a series of relationships. The Constitution of the Church stressed first the relationship of the Church to God: the Church is created not by human initiative but by the action of the Father who sends his Son to us as our redeemer; the Son sends the Spirit, and the Holy Spirit is the soul of the Church. The work of the Holy Spirit shapes the second set of relationships--among the people of the Church. The Council's stress 
Union provides arms to Nicaragua. Yet it is difficult for them to mobilize public opinion against the Soviet presence when their citizens are so much more aware of the possibility of American intervention. We make their task much more difficult with unrestrained rhetoric abo:.~t the contras. 
Second, South American leaders were con­cerned that U.S. support for the contras might actually weaken democracy in the region. They believe that U.S. involvement in Nicaragua would provide a convenient focus for extremist opposition to their own governments. New democracies are fragile democracies, and their leaders fear they might not withstand the ignition of popular sentiment against Yankee intervention. The United States, which has trodden so heavily through Latin America in the past, would serve its aJlies better by being aware of this reality. 
Finally, and perhaps most important, the leaders I met with told the Congressional delegation that aid to the contras only makes it more difficult to achieve their goal of a negotiated regional settlement through the Contadora process. In fact, many of these leaders seemed to believe that aid to the con­tras was a foregone conclusion, and that nothing could stop this administration from pursuing a military solution in Nicaragua. There is an overwhelming sense of frustra­tion among these leaders; they feel increas­ingly unable to deal with the situation. 
The delegation did what we could to stif­fen Contadora resolve. We told them they had to do more than show moral outrage at military intervention,-and that they themselves must suggest and be willing to in­volve themselves in concrete solutions, such as the economic isolation of Nicaragua or even a regional peace-keeping force. 
But actions speak louder than words, and, two weeks ago, the House acted. By on the fact that we are all responsible, active members of the Church, and its call to a style of ministry which engages the gifts of all members, have dominated the pastoral agen­da for 20 years. 
But the Council's relational perspective was not confined within the Church. Its basic thrust was outward, to promote and foster a series of relationships by Catholics with others precisely as an expression of Christ's love at work in the world. Whether one looks at ecumenical relations in the past two decades, or the Church's involvement in the social and political issues of our day, the experience of the Church has propelled it outward, creating possibilities for service and witness which were only dimly seen at the Council. 
This background also provides the key to understanding the Bishops' efforts to develop positions and procedures which both speak to central moral questions in our na­tion and do so in a way which effectively relates to our democratic pluralistic society. In addressing issues from abortion to the plight of farmers, human rights to foreign policy, nuclear questions, or Catholic social teaching and the U.S. economy, the purpose of the Bishops has oeen to make available to all members of the Church and to the wider society the resources of Catholic moral teaching. Such efforts could hardly come at 
parliamentary maneuvering or just plain luck, we delayed aid to the contras once again, for a month or more. A window of opportunity has opened. This is time we should use wisely, to shore up and assist the Contadora process. The Contadora negotia­tions -shaky as they are -remain the only vehicle for a settlement in Latin America, and our best hope for peace. Without our support, Contadora cannot succeed; with our support, it may. 
It is becoming obvious to both opponents and supporters of contra aid that 100 million dollars requested by the President will not buy a contra victory. It is only a down pay­ment on continued death and suffering. It 
Keep moving on in present with hopeful eye on future 
I remember writing a welcome to the in­coming classes last August. Itseems like just yesterday. A beautiful fall, a so-so winter, nice spring so far and, suddenly, end of school year, graduation. Where did the year go? Where they all go, ever more quickly as one gets older, future sliding into past so quickly it's difficult to grasp the present. And yet, we must, because the present is all we really have, the past is only a memory, the future only a hope. 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh 
guest column 

The present is a kind of relief for freshmen; made it thus far, now only exams. For sophomores, the present is already half way through, over the mid mark and down the other side. For juniors, it's arriving at last to senior status, the top of the pile. For seniors, the present is nostalgia, can't really be over so soon, staring reality in the face, graduate school, job, marriage, moves, moves, moves, decisions, decisions. 
Life is a moving stream, now calm, now turbulent, now challenging, now lazy and slow moving. We all have to face it on our own with some help from the grace of God and good friends and family. However pac­ed, we have to keep moving. Dark days, bright days, no matter, we move on, reaching another in a long series of goals or falling short. 
For those who graduate, it is a goal well reached, and greatly to be enjoyed with will drain us financially; far worse, it will diminish us as a nation. 
The United States is the oldest and strongest democracy in the hemisphere. Our economic and military leadership is beyond dispute. But we have the opportunity to pro­vide moral leadership as well, by lending our active support to the Contadora process and to the search for peace in Central America.. The sooner we begin, the better off we -and our friends to the south -will be. 
Congresswoman Barbara Kennelly represents the first district of Connecticut and is the 1986 Saint Mary's commencement speaker. 
a more opportune time. There is increasing recognition throughout our society that the questions which most deeply divide our na­tion are moral ones, whose solution will con­tinue to elude our grasp if we remain bereft of a moral consensus. It is here that the Church has a monumental contribution to make, but it will not be made without pain. As the Synod also served to remind us, the ''theology of the cross" is part of the Chris­tian message too, and the integration of the Church's vision and the world's does not always proceed harmoniously. 
A final word about the Bishops' Pastoral on the economy. Like its earlier drafts, it will be both praised and condemned. It will have much to please/displease Democrats and Republicans alike. During the debate, we must never lost sight of the fact that, more important than the pastoral's specific policy recommendations, important as these are, is its essential Christian message of the dignity of the human person. Because I have seen much evidence that this message is both understood and grasped by men and women who are graduating from our Catholic col­leges and universities in 1986, I do not fear for the future of our Church or our country. 
Bishop James Malone is President of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops and is the 1986 Notre Dame commencemen speaker. 
family and friends, but not for long. Other goals beckon, time continues to march, we gulp and keep moving. 
All this really tells us is that we can only 

thank God for what has passed well, be sorry 
for what has passed badly, do our best to 
keep moving forward in the present, and live 
in hope of good days and new goals to be at­
tained in the future. The worst of all is not to 
have learned from past successes and failures, 
not to be really alive and striving in the pre­
sent, or to lose hope for the future. The 
future is the place and time where we get 
another chance. Thank God for that. We can 
all do better. 
I think it was a French writer, Leon Bloy, who said in his book, "La Femme Pauvre": "The only real failure in life is not to be a saint." On that scale of judgment, I think most of us taste failure, but there is a fall­back position: we can all keep trying and pray for more help. 
My bottom line, at the end of my fifty­second year at Notre Dame, is to wish the seniors--God speed and well done; the juniors--you're almost there; the sophomore­-two down, two to go, give it your best; the freshmen--at least there will be a class below you next year. Have a great summer and come back safely. 
I have to circle the globe twice this sum­mer, once for peace with stops in Moscow, Beijing, and Tokyo, and once for refugees in Europe, Africa, Southeast Asia, and the Far East. And then, the final year of an all too long presidency. Thanks for your affection and patience. I hope it doesn't sound phony or banal when I say, I love you all. 

Every student at Oxford University in England receives a grant to pay for school. And recently, because the British economy has turned (or should I say remained?) 

i: anemic, and because one in seven Brits is out of work, the govenment decided this year that it's time to cut back on what it gives to students--by about 2 percent. 
Bob Vonderheide 
from oxford 
Here at Oxford, you would have thought Maggie Thatcher had closed the University. The undergraduates were out in full force one Friday afternoon, about 2,000 of them all told, and they were screaming and yelling that somebody was not making them very happy. Groups of them held aloft placards indicating that their particular residential college would not stand still for such an in­justice. From University College, where I live, came the wisdom, ''Univ says the Tories stink!" And from Merton, "Thatcher! That­cher! Out! Out!" One poster in particular caught my attention. It was from Jesus Col­lege, a school once intended to educate Catholic youths from Wales. In plain black letters, the poster declared, "Jesus says no to cuts." 
Does He really? 
These 2,000 undergraduates. unaware of their rather hilarious irony, marched past another place in Oxford that makes me laugh. Itis Magpie Lane, a street whose name is second in charm only, I think, to Logic Lane. Street signs in Oxford are engraved on huge steel plaques, bolted to the walls of this ancient city for all eternity--except one sign for Magpie Lane. This plaque is smaller, and posted higher, ostensibly to be out of reach of drunken students and tourists in search of souvenirs after the pubs close. But the in­scription is what endears the sign to me. It reads, "Magpie Lane. Formerly Grove Street." 

When, I ask, was it Grove Street? 1650? 1910? On one hand, the sense of history that swallows this place makes it seem rather ap­propriate that the city engineers should decide to tell us what the streets used to be called. But on the other hand, Oxford is a ci­ty also founded on imprecision. Strangers seeking directions must ask three locals and combine their stories before setting out again with confidence. Tower bells from all around the city ring for about five minutes on either side of the hour so that you know, well, it's about nine o'clock. Signs will direct you to public toilets, but when you get close, that last (and necessary) sign seems to be missing. That's why Magpie Lane, formerly Grove Street, strikes me as odd. Just once, when told that the best way to Merton Col­lege from High Street is a trek down Magpie Lane, I would like to ask, "Do you mean Grove Street?" That's right. Magpie Lane, formerly Grove Street. 
Into this university of total irony, a school built in the 11th century which now reluc­tantly finds itself in 1986, Notre Dame's two newest Rhodes Scholars will arrive this fall. No doubt Tess Doering and Gred Abowd are beside themselves. This time last year, it was I who had just been struck with a feeling of sustained excitement that within two days of finally arriving in Oxford, I wandered around the streets taking pictures of this and that and quickly whisking them home to show Mom and Dad that, yes, it was real. Today, six months later, I admit I am still awestruck, although I'll be honest and con­cede that I am much more inclined to give in to McDonald's when hunger hits at 11:30 
p.m. At first, McDonald's didn't seem to fit into my idea of the Oxford experience, so I avoided that den of American culture. But soon, because all pubs and most restaurants are closed by 11 p.m. (and because that ole college food is, well, so British), "anti­ethnocentricity" gives way to melted cheese on a real piece of hamburger. 
The tourists have started arriving, as I'm told they always do when the weather warms up. The students were lounging about this afternoon, soaking up the sun while they can because, as a kid from Wales told me, ''Only God knows when the sun's going to come back!" Certainly it must be this time of year when Oxford is the most spectacular. Few things rival a saunter around Merton gardens or a run along the Christ Church meadow toe-path. It fits the Oxford image: subtle and confident. The king of Spain dropped by the other day to pick up an honorary degree in civil law during a ceremony rich in pomp and parade. Oxford's 92 year old chancellor ran the show, spouting off bits of Latin and remarking to the king (in English) that his reign was ad­mirable. The tone was telling; yes, the chancellor could have said, Oxford has been watching you and we are quite impressed, so take your honorary degree and carry on, won't you? Lovely. 
It gets slightly thick at times, all this tradi­tion. Porters ask you when you plan to "go down" at the end of term, as if leaving Ox­ford requires descending to the masses. The tuxedo gets drawn out about twice each month, and undergraduates still run off to their examinations in mortarboards and black, sleeveless gowns (although many are women now). It's all part of Oxford, at least the bits that remain. 
What also remains, and what never fails to strike me, is Oxford's place in history, which quite frankly is simply overwhelming. In the house next to my college, Robert Boyle discovered in 1662 that with all else equal, a gas expands so that the product of pressure and volume is constant. Three hundred years later, at Notre Dame, I would attempt to master the evolution of Boyle's work, which we now like to call chemical engineer­ing. Edmond Halley used to stroll around these str:eets thinking thoughts about Jupiter and Saturn, until one day he turned his at­tention to the comets -one in particular -and considered how his observations might relate to the theories of his friend, Isaac Newton (who unfortunately was a Cambridge man). 
So great was Halley's work that right now beneath my sweater, the T -shirt I am wear­ing, I believe, advertises the return of Halley's comet. 
Again and again, I am reminded that so many thoughts, which have become mun­dane to contemporary scholars, were thought here in this city for the first time. As one of those the narrow-minded scientists, I don't often get a chance to tip-toe through the humanities, but I am assured that if I did, I'd come across many an Oxford man; John Locke, Thomas Hobbes, T.S. Eliot, 
T.J. Tolkein. Why, even the adventures of Alice in Wonderland were penned by a don at Christ Church College, who eventually called himself Lewis Carroll. 
Generally, though, all it takes is the roar of a motorcycle zooming past me on Holywell Street, and I'm back to the 20th century. And if that fails, the charming young lady walking down the street with the three rings in her nose and purple spikes in her hair certainly does the trick. Could John Locke have been a punker? Oxford, meet 1986; 1986, this is Oxford. 

What you mustn't do, of course, if con­fuse Oxford with England, for they are dif­ferent. The coins in Oxford may still feel as heavy in your pocket as they do in London, and they may s~ill deny you a bag at the grocery, but culture is enigmatic and understanding goes a lot deeper than the tourist's camera can reach. A tourist stop­ped me last Friday and inquired about this very point, I think. 'Where are the treasures?" he asked. "I don't want to miss anything important." Hmmm. Tough ques­tion. For starters, I replied, why not take a walk around the Merton gardens. It's easy to get there; just go down this street and turn left at Grove Street. You know the one: Magpie Lane, formerly Grove Street. 
Bob Vonderheide is a 1985 Notre Dame graduate studying as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University in England. 


Fight against terrorism lessens need for NATO 
The United States finds itself in a precarious position regarding its NATO allies and the world environment. What is it to be an ally of the United States? Why do we often feel so alone in a world that we regard as safe because of our presence? These questions bear consideration in light of the events of the past several weeks, especially the questions arising over NATO and its constituents. 
Ken Kollman 
no easy solutions 
When our West European allies condemn­ed our bombing of Libya, we reacted like an offended friend. We naturally thought that NATO extends to our war against terrorists, and in our best Cold War, Reaganesque mentality, our fellow nations were either with us or against us. 
As the only European nation to verbally or logistically support our military act against Libya, Great Britain reacted like the perfect ally, with the kind of response that super­powers dream of at night. The French, being 
Doonesbury 

French, continued their long-term goal of absolute Frenchness, and snubbed our re­quest for access to airspace. They were against us. So was every other country in the world, except Great Britain and, naturally Israel, who is not in NATO. The United States, who can boast involvement in more defense treaties than any other country on earth, found little defense of its actions by anyone, save its two staunchest allies. 
What distinguishes these two supporting allies from the rest of our NATO friends? In a perverted way, Israel is delighted to see so­meone else share the burden of fighting ter­rorists, and one gets the feeling that Israel would rejoice if we did anything slightly nas­ty to Libya. As the only other nation to militarily retaliate against terrorism, they could not do otherwise but to support our ac­tion. No NATO country shares this perspective. Unfortuanately, Great Britain, by supporting the U.S. bombing, has join­ed the U.S. and Israel in the league of primary terrorist targets. In light of con­siderable Parliamentary opposition, Margaret Thatcher has continued to defend her nation's response. To understand That­cher's actions, one must keep in mind her personality, and her shared vision and friendship with Reagan. They have reported-
GINNY /AJON'rK1R/3£, SINe& fBe, JOAN? MANY8/.ACJ<S 
5CC aJLIAT I'M SAYING 

SH6WORJ:S IN me U. 5. 
~77/?&P OFHAVING Al­

ATTORN&'/5 OfflC£,91/TTile toll/ANC£:5 MAa FOR 7/EM. 
CML-!?1Gf{T5/AIAR I~ oveR. IT'5 ~lNG.' '­
IT'S TIMe~ GOT ON IQfTH IT! "-. 
ly talked with each other on several occa­While they are not quite ready to give up sions about a joint action against terrorism, American defense of the continent, they feel and Thatcher, having been the target of ter­it is their right to question and criticize U.S. rorists herself, no doubt jumped at the foreign policy. Problems arise when that 
chance to respond in kind. Also, she is a tough person. That Great Britain stands alone among NATO nations is more a reflec­tion of Thatcher and her party than a reflec­tion of British interests. 

The French, however, did not see a need to support Reagan's retaliation. Quite natural­ly, they and the other European nations fear reprisal on their own citizens, and recent at­tacks on British tourists probably brought "I told you so" whispers. Is it right for the U.S. to expect a fellow member of NATO to sup­port U.S. action even if it endangers French citizens? That answer depends on whom one talks to. 
Since World War II, the U.S. has seen itself as Western Europe's defender against Soviet expansionism. Historical perspective lends credibilty to this view, considering Soviet maneuvers in Berlin, Czechoslovakia and Poland. From the U.S. perspective, European survival as a non-communist 
political unit depends  on alliance with the  
u.s.  
This  mentality  of  policing  the  unruly  

Europeans is resented by European nations. 
Garry Trudeau 
fOI<TlJNATEI,Y, 
IT'S TRUE. fAJf3 !£.A V& I'VE HAJJ AU.7HATAT 705t£HIM 111£0Ff/C&. 
TPIIC£. 
\ 

criticism means lack of support, i.e. the French refusing access to airspace. Impor­tantly, most Europeans view NATO solely as a defense against a Soviet march across West Germany, not as a catch-all treaty with the 
U.S. They refuse to see the treaty as a welcome mat for U.S. aircraft any time it is convenient. 
Both positions are understandable. What is important is the future of NATO. When the Europeans feel that the treaty has outliv­ed its usefulness, given the degree of distaste among the populace, they will not hesitate to discard NATO. At the moment, however, it serves their interest as a necessary evil. The U.S., however, may have learned a lesson. As the nature of warfare has changed to a fight against terrorists, as we ponder the response of our allies to the Tripoi bombing, and as we view the treaty from our perspective, maybe NATO no longer serves 
U.S. interests enough to warrant its survival. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the Day 

"It is for us to make the ef­fort. The result is always in God's hands." 
Mohandas K. Ghandi (1869 -1948) 

"ielYP-~O_i_n~t------------------------------------------~M=o=n=da~y~,~M=a~y~5,~1~98~6~~P~~~e9 



P.O. BoxQ 
press how much I appreciated all of the if Notre Dame moves its small bucket~ of unique brand of self-serving, hypocritical,Transfer students called friendship I received when I arrived. I am money around the ocean of funds which is pseudo-academic spew: very happy to give someone else the teriffic the international financial market, it is an il­Please cease and desist from exploiting
to be 'foster parents' 

treatment I was given. lusion to think that it has any effect what­your responsible position as a professor at I thank you very much and the thanks you soever on the value of any company's stock. this university in pursuit of your apparently Dear Editor: will get from a transfer next fall will be one Notre Dame may wish to divest for its elusive personal goal of single-handedly It's the end of the school year and'the last hundred fold of mine. The nice thing about symbolism. The sight of a brigade of bucket delivering a large portion of your own South 
thing anyone wants is another commitment this activity is that is not a big committment bearers carrying water from San Francisco African countrymen from the bondage of for the upcoming school year, but a bunch of and it isn't even a hassle. It is just an oppor­to Los Angeles would indeed give eloquent the "dictatorship" you so despise. us transfer students are getting things tunity to make a friend who is anxious to be testimony to something. Or Notre Dame The incendiary tone of your letter only 
organized for next year. This letter is an in­·yours. may simply wish not to be involved with further causes me to womit:r why you find it vitation to any interested Notre Dame stu­John Byrne companies whose actions it considers im­so imperative to ensconce yourself in the dent and I hope it is especially appealing to Notre Dame transfer student moral. I do not belittle this motivation, and comfortable haven of South Bend, Indiana 
I would in some cases adopt it personally. as you "struggle for social justice." Yourpresent transfer students. Next fall, we want For example, if there were a corporation "struggle" in absentia, away from the real
to have "foster parents" adopt our incoming called ·"Abortion Clinics of America," I heat of the battle, is quite uninspiring.
Divestment would be 
transfer students. would not wish to invest in it, even though I We at this university do not appreciate
Transfer students are put into a unique am well aware that there are far more than your sporadic, yet all too familiar, outbursts

situation when they arrive at Notre Dame. The main obstacle that prevents these 

merely a symbolic act enough pro-choice people in the U.S. to pro­of negativism. Honest men and women can earnestly disagree and argue in a civil man­
students from feeling like one of the "Irish" vide whatever funding the corporation could is the off-campus placement. One of the Dear Editor: possibly need and that it would never miss ner, as you should have attempted with my funds. There does not seem to be any Father Griffin, who, I'm sure, would have
neatest experiences about being a Notre This letter is intended to make a point 
Dame student is living on campus. There is a about the issue of whether Notre Dame point in organizing a publicity blitz about my all too enthusiastically accommodated yo_u. major difference between choosing to live should divest of the stocks of the companies righteousness; but, nevertheless, there is Your letter was petty and unprovoked. off campus and being told that you have to. that do business in South Africa. The point some satisfaction in knowing that at least my Recklessly hurling around the term "racist" 
These transfers are in a sense isolated it makes is not conclusive in deciding the hands are clean. is a serious act, and in this case, disappoin­
fr0m what is happening at Notre Dame. It is issue, but it is relevant and apparently not The issue of divestment is one worthy of ting. The time that we will all spend at discussion. But the passion with which some Notre Dame is too short for it to be soiled by 
• -•ery difficult to fit into the stream of student widely recognized. life when you are just arriving at a new As far as I can tell from my training in argue their position gives me the impression recollections of needless personal attacks. university and are living off-campus. There economics, divestment by Notre Dame will that they think divestment is an action which A public apology is in order from you, sir. isn't the sense of unity people feel when they not penalize the companies whose stocks goes beyond symbolism, that it is more than John Ginty 
Fisher Hall 

are in a dorm. Transfers have to go after ac­Notre Dame sells. It will not depress their a matter of keeping one's hands clean. They tivities and events because they don't have stock values, nor will it exert any sort of seem to think that it is a matter of hittin& dorm representatives informing them and economic pressure on these companies. On some unprincipled parties where it hurts, Great Bike-Aid support 
they aren't exposed to the news that travels the other hand, neither will it entail any right in the purse. Surely, it is not. freely through the dorms. Until they get to financial sacrifice on the part of Notre James J. Rakowski a response to poverty 
Dame. Professor ofEconomics
know the place (three to eight months), it can be a rough experience. The stock market is such a perfect (the I would like to suggest the "Adopt a technical term is efficient) market that when Dear Editor: I would like to express my deep gratitude 
Transfer" program student government is Notre Dame withdraws its money and Seniors: Keep deposits to the hundreds of students who have sup­planning for next year. It is not very time deposits it elsewhere in the market, funds ported my participation in Bike-Aid 1986, aconsuming and what little time it does take is will flow instantaneously to maintain the to protest investments 
appreciated more than you will ever realize level of prices the market considers justified cross-country bike ride to benefit the by the transfer students .. We want to give a by fundamentals. As long as there is an Dear Editor: Overseas Development Network. Student volunteer the name of one transfer student amount of "unprincipled" money in the After four years at Notre Dame, we have pledges are approaching $2,500 and the next fall. All we ask is that you give them a market surpassing the value of these com­learned the necessity of questioning certain moral support has been just as heartening. little friendship for a while. There are no panies' stock, the small void caused by the University policies, but have often found Together, we are making a creative response 
guidelines, just suggestions. For example, withdrawal of Notre Dame money will that our questions fall on deaf ears. to the immense problems of poverty and in­ask them to go to the dining hall with you quickly be filled by the inflow of other The appeals of Bishop Tutu and other pro­justice which our world faces. every once in a while, invite them to bring a funds. It seems clear to me that, even if minent black leaders in South Africa to app­Once again, I thank you for your generous 
many others follow No!re Dame's example, and outstanding support and I look forward
date to your SYR, or just call them up on the ly economic sanctions, chiefly through 
phone to check out how they are doing. And there is no prospect of the mass of "unprin­divestment, have also been ignored by the to informing you of Bike-Aid's success in if you don't find them totally repulsive, cipled" money ever becoming so small that it administration. August. perhaps even ask them to come by your cannot perform this equilibrating function. We seniors now have the opportunity to Tim McLellan 
dorm room after class and let them meet apply economic pressure to the Board of
It is not that I am questioning whether Howard Hall your friends. "every little bit helps." What I aJJl question­Trustees. Traditionally, Notre Dame has the ing is whether in principle there is even a very 
largest senior class endowment in the coun­For a little effort, you help another human small impact. Let me give an example of try. This money is comprised of $50 housing Warth right: Refusing being out tremendously. I am hoping, but what I mean: If one takes a bucket of water 
deposits which seniors voluntarily forfeit. 

not expecting, non-transfers to fully out of the Pacific Ocean and carries it to the test ban a big mistake 
Like all University monies, regardless of its understand how important this is. Your par­Great Salt Lake (which has no outlet to the eventual use, this is invested according to 
ticipation would be fantastic because you sea), then in principle one is doing one's bit University policy, which condones invest­
Dear Editor: 

have a different perspective on Notre Dame to lower the level of the ocean. The effect is ment in corporations with holdings in South 
life (i.e., Emil, the Freshman Year of absurdly minor, but it is there. But if one Africa. Congratualations to Thomas J. Warth on Studies). And, if you transfers will takes a bucket of water out of the Pacific at his recent article: "Nuclear test ban a vital
Now is the time for us to heed the call of 

remember just a short time ago when you San Francisco and deposits it in the ocean at step toward security." He certainly nailed the 
blacks in South Africa. When you receive a were not as included as you would like to Los Angeles, it is a complete illusion to think card from the Housing Office asking you to President for promoting terrorism in the 
. I 
have been, I hope you will express your in­that one is doing his small part to punish San contribute to Notre Dame investments, nuclear arms race and for blowing the offer J terest in participating next fall. I can't ex-Francisco by drying up its bay. So it is that don't. by the Soviets for a nuclear test ban moratorium, a serious mistake on the Presi­
J
Look out for petitions stating our 

dent's part, as Warth said.
resistance to University policy and our I think it has become clear beyond asolidarity with the oppressed of South reasonable doubt that our President wants

Africa. 
nothing to do with halting the nuclear armsAt Notre Dame, we have learned to ask race unless he can do it on his terms, whichthe right questions. Let's start getting would be vast nuclear superiority over the
answers. 
Soviets. This type of attitude has fueled the
Beth Fitzpatrick 

race for over 40 years, and as a result, today 
DonnaMaus 

we are less secure than ever. In his futile at­
Notre Dame students 

tempt for superiority, the President is plann­ing to raise our narional debt by another

Walshe letter 'inane' 

trillion or so dollars. Perhaps our best chance for survival lies in 

in attack on Griffin 

a massive world economic depression whereby we and the Soviets would be too Dear Editor: poor to continue this rich man's game 
An open letter to Peter Walshe, Professor leading to world holocaust. of Government: Regarding your inane letter of April 29, Brother William Mewes, C. S.C. 1986 in which you continue to peddle your Notre Dame 

General Board 


The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief_ ..... _............ Joe Murphy Business Manager . _....... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor. ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . .. _.. __ ........ Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor. .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ....... _. Anne M.Culligansity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor.. .......... Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .......... Drew Sandler policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor. ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager. ........ _... David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor . _.. _.......... _. _... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor. .. _.......... _.. Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Uncover sports treasure 




Accent 


:' 
MARTY STRASEN 
features writer 
T

here's a hidden treasure 
waiting to be discovered in the Notre Dame library for sports en­thusiasts. Or maybe it's not so hid­den. 
Notre Dame's International Sports and Games Research Collec­tion contains memorabilia from virtually every area of the sporting world and is the best collegiate sports collection in the country. Sports writers from all over the United States know about it, but most of the Notre Dame student body walks past the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections on the way to the more popular areas of the library. 
Those people are missing some­thing. 
"This is a research collection by design," says department curator jethrow Kyles, who has been in charge of the collection for five years. "It's not a museum although a 
)ot ofthe thin~ we have here should be in a museum. The Univer­sity ofAlabama has about half the 

COLLEEN CLYNES 
features writer 
"College radio is where it's at." At least it is according to Pat F. Mur­phy. director of sales and promo.­tions at Notre Dame's WVFI. "A good college radio station is definitely a valuable thing for students to have," Murphy said. And he and the rest of WVFI's staff are spending a lot of time and energy to become just that. 
It is an uphill battle, however. WVFI is plagued by deteriorating equipment and lack of funds. "For whatever reason, we are not providing the service to students 
that w.e should. That's the sad part, because we have a lot of talented people. I just wish people could hear us," Murphy said. 
The biggest setback is money, Murphy's main concern. As direc­tor of sales and promotions, Mur­phy is in charge of generating revenue for the station through advertisements, the only source of income for the station outSide of DJing certain functions. 
"This year we received a $1000 ac­count from Wendy's, which, of course, gave the station a lot of money, and we go the An Tostal ac­count, one I'm pretty proud of myself," remarks Murphy. This and all other ad revenues are put in­to a general pot for the station's use. 
The station is made up of an ex­ecutive and general board, both staffed by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. The executive board is the controlling force 
'I 
behind the station, consisting of six departments: station manager, news director, sports director, pro­duction engineer, technical engineer, sales and promotions and also two business managers, one
r '· 
each for the FM and AM stations. 
memorabilia we have and they've 
started a beautiful museum." 
And while such museums are crowded with sports enthusiasts who make a day ofreliving the achievements of their all-time favorites, the Notre Dame collec­tion remains hidden away. The better part of the collection, which was started in 1967, is filed away on shelves in the library basement. 
Hidden treasures. That's the only way to describe these memorabilia. 
Collectors would pay top dollar for the unpublished photos of Notre Dame's legendary Four Horsemen or for programs dating back to the 1800s in most sports. But they will never get the chance. One can't put a price on some of these items. 
"There are a lot offormer players around the country who know Notre Dame sp.orts better than anyone," says Kyles. "Some ofthese guys donate their own personal letters to commissioners of every sport to the collection. How can you replace things like that?" 
Other irreplaceable items (without even scratching the 
Voice of Fighting Irish to wake up campus 
l'he FM station deals specifically with the fine arts while the AM is predominantly progressive. Most, if not all, of the FM station's pro­gramming is sponsored through specific grants, and classical con­cert series are generally played. 
The AM format is labeled pro­gressive, but it "ranges from heavy metal to punk rock to oldies, depending on the DJ's taste. Our record collection is very extensive," Murphy said. 
WVFI does have a playlist called roation, and DJs are asked to follow this at certain times, usually the first hour of a show. The rota­tion consists of a mix~ure of top­40s, new wave and any ads. "It's not aZIP 104 type deal where every lO minutes you hear the same song. It's a good mix," said Murphy. 
Despite the playlist, requests are always more than welcome and usually put ont he air within five or six minutes of th~ call. "We really value our audience and definitely want to please them," Murphy siad. "We have a good time doing it." 
And have a good ime is exactly what WVFI's DJs set out to do. Flanner freshman Tom Tisa finds his experience as a DJ "stimulating." Tisa works the Wednesday 12 to l p.m. lunch-hour shift and subs occasionally for other DJs. 
Rose Pietrzak, a Saint Mary's freshman, also enjoys her job as a DJ. Pietrzak, who got her ex­perience from high school radio, is the only Saint Mary's student on WVFI's general board. "It really is a pity that more people don't get in­volved in the station. It really could play a valuable role in the ND/SMC community if WVFI got 
to  the point  where  people really  
respect it."  
Another  Flanner  resident  and  

WVFI JD, Tim Mulrooney finds surface of the collection's value) include a pulley from the plane in which Knute Rockne was killed, johnny Lujack's all-America uni­form from the 1946-'47 football season, a pair of paper-thin shoulder pads from a defensive lineman in 1905 and the original script of "Knute Rockne: All-American." 
Notre Dame football programs 
and season srapbooks fill the 
shelves, yet only 20 percent of the 
collection consists of Notre Dame 
memorabilia. 
"We also have things not directly 
associated with particular sports, 
but rather, things about sports," 
explains Kyles. "There are theses on 
sports topics from women in sports 
to the aerodynamics of a pitched 
baseball." 
And perhaps the collection is not as hidden as one might think. 
"I've seen people from New York to Los Angeles fly in for just a few hours to do research in the collec­tion," Kyles says. "That's what we're here for. Howard Cosell used the collection for three of his 'Sportsbeat' shows. 
"The Baseball Hall of Fame (in Cooperstown, N.Y.) occasionally 


Frank Mastro spins records for WVFI. 
that "being a DJ is a blast, except it's a .Iitle discouraging that nobody can hear me, but, well, at least I have a lot of fun." 
Mulrooney is a latecomer to the station, while many students are in it from the beginning of the year. There are signups at Student Ac­tivites Night in September, and students must go through auditions to narrow down the number of ap­plicants. The number of positions available depends each year on how many staff members graduate. 
"The real crux is that we have quality people, not quantity," Mur­
phy  said.  "Wvfi's  staff  is  ex­ 
cellent."  
And  what's in the future?  A  

possible move to the newly renovated Lafortune Student 
borrows some of our memorabilia. They are geared for hype because that's what people who visit the hall of fame want. We're different. We're here for research." 
Obviously, the Notre Dame col­lection provides excellent research material for people who make a living from sports. But there are 
The Observer/Drew Sand!Cr"" 

Center is planned, which will pro­vide better reception and new pro­gramming ideas. 
Next year the station will feature & 7 to 9 a.m. talk show "that caters to the breakfast crowd -news, infor­mation and mellow music to start the morning," explained Murphy. "We've never done anything like this before and hope it will be a big success." 
The station is also making strides in funding for next year. "The ad­ministration is finally coming through for us," said Murphy. "I 
guess  they  finally  realize  that  a  
radio  station  that  students  can't  
hear is  a waste of  

time." To the staff of WVFI, this radio station certainly is not. 
Johnny J. Evers was a second baseman for the Chicago Cubs and the pivotman in the famous double­play trio known as "Tinker to Evers to Chance" in the 1920s. His 1924 uniform is packed away in a gray box on one of the shelves. 
Just down the aisle is a smaller box containing even more baseball history. Upon opening it, a baseball rolls around the extra space to reveal a signature of a man they called the Sultan of Swat -Babe 
Ruth. Anothe of the Georgi whose recor< the major lea last year by P There are~ . the days whe personal bool · in every spor1 published an< are out of prit if not kept un · conditions. T 


Kids are pe 
Caroline Gillespie 
features copy editor P< 
tl 
IT 

College life is a world of big people. Everyone is either an adult or becoming an t< adult. But there are little people in the Saint v, Mary's/Notre Dame community, children ~ ages three through six at the Early ~ Childhood Development Center. tl 
Between 7:45 and 8:30a.m. every weekday morning, the little people troop into the e1 ECDC, located in Havican Hall on the Saint p Mary's campus. Their days are filled with o games, chances to show their creativity with F art work and show 'n tell performances. But ~ most importantly, they are surrounded with the philosophy that "kids are people, too." tl 
Terri Kosil, ECDC director since the fall of p 1975, runs the center following the ideas and o teachings of Rudolf Dreikurs. Dreikurs was E a psychiatrist who specialized in the social t< psychiatry of education in the home and si school. According to Kosik, Dreikurs' method is "sometimes called democratic d discipline, sometimes raising responsible (t children and sometimes discipline without n tears." 
Basically, Dreikurs believed that encourage­ment would help a child feel good about fi himself. The child participates in his own tl discipline, preparing himself for his future R participation in society. h 
"The child shares in the responsibility of behavior," Kosik said. "It is a fair and con­sistent way to discipline. All of our children are good; they sometimes do crazy things, but they're still good. We tell them that s< they're still good because we like to give them that ego. We all like to feel like we are good." 
At the ECDC, the children participate in the rule making process. Sometimes the class will have a meeting to decide the [ disciplinary measures which should be taken Cl if a child disobeys a rule. 
The teachers help the children to see the logical and natural consequences of their ac­p tions. So if Johnny throws a truck, then the f. teacher tells him that throwing a truck could fl hurt someone. The teacher doesn't jl\St say r: that throwing a truck is wrong because the teacher says so. The teacher explains the fl consequences of such an action so the child ~ can understand. Then perhaps the class will (t decide how Johnny should be punished if he p continues to throw the truck. fc 

--------------~-------­
Monday, May 5, 1986 -page 10 -11 

Ruth. Another bears the autograph of the Georgia Peach, Ty Cobb, whose record for career base hits in the major leagues was broken just last year by Pete Rose. 
There are gloves dating back to 
. the days when baseball was born, personal books written by legends in every sport which were never published and other books which are out of print that would fall apart if not kept under climate-controlled · conditions. They're all here. 
people too 
Kosik believes that enabling the children to 
participate in the discipline process will give 
them problem solving skills and the ability to 
make decisions. 
eople. The ECDC is staffed with professional 
ning an teachers and students who work there on a 
1e Saint volunteer basis. One of the few problems 
:hildren with the Dreikurs method is the response 
Early which some of the student workers have to 
the seemingly permissive discipline attitude. reekday Julie Faraboaugh, a junior elementary rlto the education major at Saint Mary's, volunteers 1e Saint part time at the center and has worked there ed with on a paid basis for the last two summers. ity with Farabaugh thinks the method works very es. But well in a pre-school atmosphere. ed with "It promotes a positive self concept within too." the children," Farabaugh said. "From my ~fall of past experiences working with children in eas and other centers and schools, I know that the urs was ECDC provides top quality day care. The ~ social teachers are very dedicated and profes­ne and sional." reikurs' Farabaugh enjoys assisting in the 1ocratic developmental activities of the ECDC. "It 1onsible (the ECDC) offers college students a without refreshing break from the pressures of the 
adult world," our age­Ann Raque, a senior accounting and l about finance major, has worked at the center for 1is own three years, beginning as a clean-up person. : future Raque has since moved up from cleaRing to 
her present position as an opening teacher. 1ility of "The more I was associated with the ECDC, nd con­the more I worked there, the closer I found :hildren myself to the children. Now I'm responsible 
things, for the children in early morning," Raque :m that said. ve them "I find it (working at the ECDC) to be a 
we are refreshing change from the rigorous 
academic pressures. It is so relaxing just to ipate in go there," Raque said. nes the Raque agreed with Farabaugh that the ide the Dreikurs method is effective. "There may be 'e taken certain aspects that I don't agree with but 
overall I think it's good," she said. see the The ECDC is a spearate entity, it is not a heir ac­part of Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. hen the However, according to Kosik, the center is k could funded by both Saint Mary's and Notre il\St say Dame. .use the "We've been very fortunate to have been Lins the funded over the past 14.. years by Saint 1e chiid Mary's and Notre Dame," Kosik said. "It ass will (the funding) has allowed us to develop a ed if he professional program with experienced pro­
fessional teachers. Also, the funding has 
"You can really get a great ap­
preciation for sport itself by taking a 
look at some of th~e things," says 
Kyles. "Nowadays all you see and 
hear about sports is hype. It's gotten 
to the point where I am inclined to 
watch a game without the sound. 
Once you get a background in a 
sport you can cut through the hype 
and appreciate the game itself. 
"This collection cuts out the 
hype. This is the best of its kind in 
the country and that's not just ac­
cording to me. That's according to 
the Smithsonian Institute and 
groups like that. Most colleges have 
a strong collection in whatever 
spon that panicular school excels. 
But ours is strong in so many 
spons." 
At Notre Dame, the collection is just beginning to come out from the closet. New Irish Head Football Coach Lou Holtz has taken many of his recruits through the collection to give them a taste of the athletic program at Notre Dame. Holtz has already discovered the hidden treasure, and he relishes the oppor· tunity to step back in time and appreciate the heroes of the past. 
The collection provides a great opportunity for sports fans and is certainly well worth a visit. The Department of Rare Books and Special Collections is located on the first floor of the library and is open weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
There's a treasure waiting. 
DON SEYMOUR 
features writer 

Take producer Michael Mann, find sets in the steamy Everglades and in the slums of Miami, and decorate them with attractive, trendily-dressed young people and art deco houses, throw in a plot reminiscent of "The Kids from 
CAPER" and  a  soundtrack  with  
Bob Dylan  and Tom  Petty,  and  
what do you have?  


You guessed it -"Miami Vice" on the movie screen. 
This confection is called "Band of th~ Hand." No, Don Johnson and Philip Michael Thomas do not appear on screen, but it is no coin­cidence that executive producer Michael Mann also produces the hit series set in the same city. One must admire Mann for sticking with what works. He even keeps 



A big screen 'Vice' 

Children visit their lockers in the ECDC. 
provided us with an excellent facility, ex­cellent educational materials and an excellent curriculum. We are used by local areas as a training and as an observational sight for students from other schools such as Bethel College, Indiana University and Head Start." 
The ECDC has four classrooms, one for the three-year-olds, two for the four-year-olds and one for the five-year-olds. Open from 7:45a.m. to 5:15 p.m. weekdays, the center provides services for the children of faculty, staff, administration and students of saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
The ECDC also provides the education, . nursing and psychology majors with an op­portunity to gain valuable experience in their fields. Presently, the center has about 90 student workers, most of them on a one day per week volunteer basis. 
So, for a few hours a day, the student workers get to escape into a world of little people. Raque said that she loves the kids and that she needs a hug every day. When she goes there, she gets not just one, but many hugs. 
things in the family. Director Paul Michael Glaser (of "Starsky and Hutch" fame) has directed three "Vice" epicodes; and much of the cast has appeared in guest spots on the hit series. 
"Band of the Hand" is the story of five hardened youth offenders who are placed in a special rehabilitation program on a remote island in the Everglades witb Joe Tiger (Stephen Lang), a Vietnam vet who teaches the boys to survive and to work as a team. After pass­ing the crucial tracking test, "which no one has ever passed," the group moves to a slum neighborhood of Miami where they promptly wage war against the drug-pushers and the gangs in order to clean up the area. 
The boys are all capable but unremarkable actors straight off of television. Lang, after an im­pressive motion picture debut as Gene Hackman's son-in-law in "Twice in a Lifetime," plays an in­triguing and mysterious in­dividualist type. But his perfor­mance falls apart in the end when he becomes socially-conscious. 
This film, like its small screen relative, is all style. The filmmakers pay so much attention to wardrobe and set design that they seem to forget about character develop­ment. Because of the grating and insignificant dialogue and the short, flashy scenes, the crucial tracking test in the Everglades pro­ves nothing, because we have no sense of character to be unified. 
"Band of the Hand" is style superceding content. If you're up for some good television-style entertainment, this is your movie. Otherwise, stay home and watch "Miami Vice." 
Complaints are verbal trash 
Dave Dvorak 
Out of the lunch box 

Last Sunday morning, I woke up to the sound of clanging metal 
coming through my open window. I looked at my clock -it was 
only 8 a.m. Who could be making all this noise so early on a 
weekend morning? 
I got out of bed, walked over to the window, and opened the 
shade. I squinted at the garbage dumpster three floors below my 
window. There was a Hispanic lady, shabbily clothed, standing in­
side the dumpster. 
She was sifting around in the garbage, picking up aluminum beer 
cans. Standing outside the dumpster was her son, probably no 
more than 10 years old, holding a large plastic bag. His dirty, rip­
ped clothes hung from his frail body like rags. 
As the woman collected the cans, she handed them to her son, 
who placed them in the bag. No doubt they would be taking the 
cans to an aluminum recycling plant somewhere, where they would 
probably receive about 20 cents per pound. 
It was a pitiful sight. 
In the midst of a sugar-coated campus where students see only 
green quads and beautiful buildings, there was poverty. In this 
land of Polo shirts, Air Jor dans and compact disc players, there 
was a genuine human struggle. In living color. 
The mother worked with a quiet intensity as her boy watched 
silently with large dark eyes. With each aluminum beer can she 
handed him, the irony of the whole thing became more striking. 
The recreational waste products of one social stratus were becom­
ing the livelihood of another. Those beer cans that my friends and 
I had carelessly crushed and shot into the trash can from across the 
room were the very means of survival for this family. 
And to think of the things we students tend to complain about: lack of spring break money, a losing football season, a 10-page paper. They all seem so silly and insignificant by comparison. 
The more I thought about it, the more depressed I got. A II I could think was, if it weren't for luck of birth, I might very well be in that dumpster collecting cans, too. Why was that kid down there, watching his mother wade through garbage? Why was I up here in a well furnished dormitory room, two weeks away from a college diploma? 
I really have to wonder. Do we realize how good we've got it? Do we know how fortunate we are to have parents that give a damn about what happens to us, to have nice clothes, plenty of food at every meal and a chance to get a top-notch college education? 
Do we really appreciate how lucky we are to be at this place, alcohol policy and all? I'm a senior now, and I'll be going on to medical school next year. 
I tried to consciously avoid writing one of those sappy, sentimen­tal, can-you-believe-we're-graduating columns. But I'm just going to pass on a bit of advice to underclassmen that I've often heard myself. 
Appreciate this school every day you're here. Notre Dame has a whole lot going for it. Realize that it has its faults, but whatever you do, don't spend your four years here complaining. 
Because next thing you know, you'll be sitting in the ACC wear­ing a black robe and one of those funny flat hats. 
Then you'll have nothing left to complain about. 
------------------------~---------­
The Observer ~onday,~ay5, 1986-page12 
' 
' 
i l 
{ 
j 
! 

••.WITH d BOnUS. ndTUAdLLY. 
BONUS: GET ASTUDENT LOAN &GET NO MONTHLY FEE ON YOUR CHECKING! 


NO CO·SIGNER REQUIRED 
Bonuses are part of the Notre Dame Credit Union system. With a student loan you get no monthly fee for a schooryear on your checking account. Of course you must be a member, but if you're not, call any NDCU office. You may be eligible! 
NOTRE DAME 


CREDIT UNION 
SEPARATE FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MAIN OFFICE  SOUTHWEST  MISHAWAKA  
19033 DOUGLAS ROAD  3509 W. SAMPLE  125 S. MILL  
239-6611  289-2827  256-2361  

-· -­
The Observer Monday, May 5, 1986.-page 13 
f' 




Classifieds 
7he Ohsen·er :'liotrt: Damt: otfin: lm.atnl on tht: thtn.l Hour of l.at·ortunt· ~tutknt <.t:nltT an.Tpt' ~o:la,,ifkd advt:rtJ...m~ trom ')am until f p m ..\1onda\ throu~h t'rida~ The Ohserr·er ~aint \1an ·., olfitt· lotatt·d on tht· thtrd tloor ol tlaAAar <:ollq~t· Ct·ntt-r. atct·pt' t:la,,ifit:d' trom 12 -\0 p m until .\ p m. \1on· tla\· thou~h t·ntla\ lkadlmt: for ncxt·dJ\ tla'"finJ, " -\ p m :\II cla...,itktl' mu't ht· pn:pa1d. dtht·r 111 pt·r,on or h' ma1l ( h.lrl<(t·" I o ll'nh rwr fin: t harat· ItT' ·r t.la\·. 

FOUND: sweater, also three pai•s of RIDE NEEDED: D.C.-Northern VA· Rich­NEED GRAD TIXS-GEOFF 2937 SENIORS '85 grad looking lor room· 0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyrNOTICES gloves. identify and claim at dispatch mond. can leave tv1on 12th. share mate In NW Chicago area. let's get great in virtue and rich In miracles window In the computing center. usual. call3413. Sem together and save some BIG BUCKS! near kinaman of Jesus Christ. •• : •• 0 •• 0 •• -•••••••• 0 ••• 0 ••••••• 
call Jlm(312)699-7500 Faithful Intercessor of all who Invoke TygingAv.-. lost: diamond pendant In the area by DESPERATELY SEEKING SUSANIII Or ycur special patronage In time of ~7-4082 the Security Office and Power Plant. MAKE MONEY-Graduating seniQrs anyone else whO can sell rre two Resort Hotels, Cruise lines & Amuse­need. To you have recourse from thy II has great sentimental value, so if commencement tiCkets My parents ment Parks are now accepting ap­deptt! of my heart and humbly beg
need to sell the•r button mal<•ng
found please call Krls at 3617 or 3354. have already been shut down for din­plications for employment! To whcmGod has given such great power

mach1ne Great way to earn spen­tiCkets Saturday niQhl receive an
ding rnorey next year But1on ports •n­ner Let them application and Informa­to come to my assistance. Help me in LOST: ONE GAUDY RHINESTONE cluded Call 1 072 tor details watch thetr favorite youngest son tion, write Tourism Information Ser· my present and urgent petition. In CLIP·ON EARRING. IF FOUND CALL graduate HELP-Coil Paul at 277· vices, P.O. Box 7881, Hilton Head return I promise to make your name JULIE x4570. 1913 Island, SC 29938. known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hall Wordproceulng-Typing LOST -large set of keys at Stepan Thank You St. Jude Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. picnic Sat. Keychaln has duck on it. If B.H. Publication musf be promised. Pray
272-8827 

found call Tim 3132. ZONKER I'M NOT!II tor us and all who Invoke your aid.FOR SALE Amen. Thla nov.na hila .,.,., been
I wouldn't blow mtllons 1n lotlefV Winn­Typing/WouJpra cIIling FOUND: Blue and brown Indian Ings on my uncle 'Duke" (md mtne·s know to fall. Thank you St-Jude 277-8131 necklace near Lyons Hall on 4130. not a zombie). but 1 om Willing to 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE

Call Tim at 2530 to claim. spend some bucks to get him a c6rn­HELP!II mencement tiCket. Coli 291-0397 I NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX WILL
SUMMER. 6 BDRM HOME. 272-6306 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from 11 (U LOST: Wilson Indoor/Outdoor basket­and don't ask for Zonker PAY$$ CALL ED-272.{)828 ,.W). Also delinquent tax property. Call ball (Super Shot model) during To all our whO
frends helped out 805-887-8000 ext. GH-9834 for~­quarterfinal game between Lee's 
FOR SALE: K1ng 4B trombone Sym­THANKS FOR MAKING 'ESPRIT' A SIX:> tlon. BBQ and Embarassing Stains at FOR SALE 4 COMMENCEMENT TIXS 
phony quality tnstrurnent. F at1ach­CESS Love. 
Bookstore Courts on Friday, April 25. NEED GRADUATON TIX WILL TRADE BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FOR
ment 5700 or test otter Coil Kelly at Ju118. Jeanne Mane. Ana. Terri 
If found, please call Mark at 1515. CONFIR!v1ED RESERVATKJN AT MAR­USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P.O.
233-5284 even•ngs 

ROTT & SSS FOR 2 TIX CALL ROB at 
BOX 964 NO, IN 46556 B4 05/07186WORD PROCESSING SERVICE -FOUND: COMP·MATH BLDG, A 1561 is specialty!
Quick turnaround our HEWLETT PACKARD CALCULATOR Have a good summer, everybody--JR .................._.............. . 
$2.25/page, volume price break. Let· -CHECK LOST & FOUND FOR SALE: Ods tenor trombone Stu­ter quality print. Call 277-3252 after NEED BEER MONEY? I NEED GRAD dent 1nstrument March•ng lyre and
4:00. Desperately need CQiv1MENCEMENT TIX! BILL 277-5817 musiC stand 1ncluded S 1 00. Call Kelly TIX 4 grandparents. 2 r:orents. aunt 
EVEN MORE OF BAR MONTH
A LARGE BANNER BELONGING TO at 233-5284 even•ngs 

. and uncle coming Offenng big S. -IT WAS A LONG MONTH
THE NO CHAPTER OF PHI BETA

TYPING -Fast, High-Quality. Call PLEASE call Tom at 283-1667 
o 10 o oooo o 0 0 0 o 0 0 oo ooo o 0 0 I 0 0 0 0 0 0 I I
KAPPA HAS BEEN TAKEN FROM

287-9257. I'LL ASK YOU NO QUESTIONS SO
THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
TELL ME NO LIEST TO SEE WHAT ILOUNGE. THIS BANNER IS NEEDED FOR SALE 1976 AUDI FOX S800 CALL FEEL WHEN I LOOK IN YOUR EYES I Just a rem•naer. 1n case you forgot.

FOR THE INITIATION CEREMONIES BILL 1202 

I need 3 grad tixl please help! call AM FIRE. WON'T YOU COME OUT
yesterday as Tess Guarino's b•rthday FOR NEW MEMBERS. PROMPT
PRO-TYPE -15 yrs. exp. student & 3727 AND PLAY WITH ME?
She's st1ll celebrattng the bg 22 andRETURN OF THE BANNER TO THElaw papers, resumes, dissertations. 
PROPER LOCATION WOULD BE you can catch her at 5 points tcnght
277-5833. To the Obaerver Production Depart·
GREATlY APPRECIATED ALL She's st111 talking through her hands
BY 76 chrysler statonwagon mal<e offer ment:anddnnk•ng
CONCERNED. 2727723 

SSSSSS NEED GRADUATION Thanks tor a great job! arcadia TICKETSSSSSSS CALL CHRIS AT 277­
LOST: ONE CAMERA ON GREEN 

0828 MARK, PHIL, ANDI, ANDY, JANEFIELD, SATURDAY · 4/26186 · IF ANNE, MELISSA, ALICE, Sl'v!C ORIENTATON NEEDS ND MOVERS
FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANN FOR SALE KATHY, TRACY, ROB L, ROB B., 

-Any guys •nterested •n helpng Sl'v!C
AUSTRIA AT 284-4048 ASAP! Ideal College Cor freshmen move thetr MARY R., SHARON, CAROL, CAREY, 
into dorms196501ds 
................................................................. FAM OF 14 COMING FOR GRAD-I please call Mauro 284-4380 or Kathy MARIA, MELINDA, and LAURA. 
LOST: perfect cond. runs great 
NEED TIX.ED 2347083 See you all next year!
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAU. 284·5411.
GOLD BRACELET -LOOKS LIKE A $450 call BRUSH 287-6518 
-Chrll

MAS. COKER, 233-'7()(». 
THIN FLAT 4" PIECE OF GOLD WHEN UNLATCHED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SHARON AT 4348. 

HELPIll DREW IS 20 ON MAY 6! HAPPY 20TH SIR·
TmsterFOR SALE 1980 CAPRICE CLASSIC I NEED 2 GRADUATON TIX WILL PAY SS Hope the exam 1sn THDAY.DREW

S 1600 CALL 277-4026

I LOST/FOUND I 
CALL ED-272-0828 LOVE. THE FAMILY
t a Certtfl8d P'a:n n the Axx Best of 
, ................................. .

WANTED ~···· luck' Love. ke
I ...........................
LOST: KEY CHAIN with yellow To all our friends who helped out: "Grace Hall' tag at party on Colfax St. THANKS FOR MAKING 'ESPIRir A or on campus. Without them I can't DESPERATELY SEEKIN SUSAN!I Or SUCCESS open my room, mailbox, car, or anyone else who can sell me two 
LOVE, 

································ I TONY LOVES MARIA
FOR RENT
house. Please help me by calling 283-commencement tickets. My parents Julie, Jeanne Marie, Ana, Terr! 
TONY LOVES MARIA 

3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. Are you leaving for the summer? have already been shut down for din· MAY 1.2.3 and 15.16.17 at 
ner tickets Saturday night. Let them . ................................ .
Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. Does your home/apt. need T.l.C. 
O'LAUGHLIN
watch favorite

while your gone? Responsible N.D. their youngest son 
FURNISHED HOUSE FOR RENT ON MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM·
statler will live in or look alter your graduate. HELP· Call Paul at 2n· 
lARGE LOT FOR NEXT SCHCXlL YEAR MER! TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call
1913.
place. Lets make a deal! Patti 

CLEAN INSIDE AND OUT. 3 BEDRCXJMS 272-8280 weekends, 272-9181
REWARD• LOST Sl'v!C nng on Fri 4125. 2396318 2341229 Mart-1 know •l's been a long ttrre
COJLD BE CONVERTED TO 4. LESS weekdays.
P,leose call 2134-5178 1f 10\.lld. Since I've 'M'tt1en. and I thought you
THAN 1 MILE FROM CAMPUS. CALL 
~WARD NEED GRAD TIX OR I DON'T GET MY might get a kiCk out of this. 1hope
AFTER SPM. 234-7650. ASK FOR LEN­
PLAID PANTS! II rvlomar is behav•ng h.mself these
NIE

SOUTH BEND'S FINEST RECORD CALL CtiRIS AT 3152,3171 or 2170. days. and those Egypt10n women SMC Softball Team. O:lngratulotons 
STORE NEEDS PERSON WITH aren't climbing all over you' M.ss you on a ftne season. The Tnsh Tierney Fan Lost WATCH on Fn 4/25 Leather STRONG MUSIC BACKGROUND, I need Commencement tixs a lOt and th1nk of you often• Love. Club (pgsktnJ band wtth 'Nh•te race and AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS & Please call Geoff Alice 
block roman numerals I worked hard WEEKENDS. MAIL OR BRING Ole or two females wanted to shO'o::! 289·3499 .to buy 1t so please call tf found Jame-RESUME TO TRACKS, 1631 E . 3 bedroom hOuse. close to campus. 284-5246 Thmkyou' EDISON, SOUTH BEND, IN 46637. OVOIIOble 1n May Half rent IS $137.50 IWISHIHADAVAG 
plus ut•l•tes 11 •nterested call Cindy at Mort Cizek-We miss you' You're 1tv1ng
ZONKER I'M NOT!!! 

233-5167 Leaverressoge on 6th floor next year. we·re almost
I wouldn't blow millions In lottery win­
done and then sen!OI' veor"' Soy 'Hi' to
nings on my uncle "Duke" (and mine's
LOST A PAIR OF "PRO" SUN GLASSES NEED RIDE TO BALTIMORE, Khadafy Love. AliCe. Patty . ...emne. HAPPY 21 MY ACT HERES THE AD YOJ
not a zombie), but I am willing to 
ONTHEDAYOFTHEF~T~~ECAR PHILADELPHIA, OR CHERRY HILL, Susan. John . .be, Bro. and Ed See AJ...WAYS WANTED
spend some bucks to get him a com­
SHOWING AT THE ACC THESE WERE N.J. AFTER COMMENC. WKND. MAY you soon'
HOUSE FOR RENT in Leeper Park mencement ticket. Call 291-0397 and
BROWN WITH MACH!NG CROAKIES A 18 or 19. Call Monika 3772 May 15-Aug 22. $310/mo. util. inc. don't ask for Zonker.
SIX .,ACK OF MOLSON TO THE FINDER 
ldealfor2.287~24

acx:x:;ER AT 272-2466 ANT-WE MADE IT THROUGH AN ENTIRE steve treacy, 1 think you're cute' YEAR W/OJT KILLII\lG ANOTHER. THANKS
SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, 
FOR PUTIING UP WltvlE. GRASSHOPPER
Adams High School. One-half mile from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two 
PERSONALS

LOST GOLD DOUBLE ROPE STRAND 
practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap­

BRACELET! KIKI'S ROAST IS HERE
prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288­

Senttmental value -must be on wnst MO You've been a great frl8nd. WHAT DO DONUTS, CHAMPAGNE. HEP­
4655. 

at graduatiOn Lost on Friday even­OAR·HOUH;·co;:o·•·a·Liii"iiOR. thmks for te•ng my offiCial phOto-BURN, STOLEN HATS. BRIDGET$,
L...-,__

T_IC_K_E_T_S_~/
•ng Call 272-8834 or 239-5136 and grapher. tressdresser. and leg WRESTLING. STARS. & BI<OKEN WIN­ask for Pam sM'Al.l...RE.FRici.". t.ieeciEo:. cAl.i. CAR"Y OUT TO 3 A-ll U.S. 31 N., 1 breaker DOWS HAVE IN CO'v1MON? THEY'RE 
8l.OCK SOU'n4 OF HOLIDAY INN. 

CATH 284-4086 1\ee• Watch out for TOM CRUISE im-MEMORIES OF YOJ I'LL MISS YOJ­
personators BLAH-£LA-£LA
••••••• ••••• ••••••••••••••• 0 •••• 

FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TIXS 
Hungry? CaiJ YEUOW SUBMARINE at Mont• My favar1te val and dance part­BEST OFFER 289-8417 B•11PM
LOST Faded Mavenck J€0n Jacket Roommate[s) needed for surnrrer 272-HIKE. Delivety hours: :5pm-12am ner. 1 can't wait for LA, then we em go Saturday nght at RASTA concert Nice house close to campus. central ................................ Monday-Thtnday; 5pm-2am Friday; dance to club. dance. end blaster Hole •n rght arm_ set of keys for Room a•r. stereo and much more Very 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10p!tl Sunday. mixes at KROQ TOM-YOU OWE ME $1160: I OWE YOJ 449 n pocket. If found. please call cheap 287-6656 Need Graduation Tlx Desperately!!! Barb My fovor•te REGINA pol. thanks FOR A GREAT SEMESTER..JMW Jacke at 2126 WILL PAY ANY PRICE!!! John 4057 for all tne crazy limes. it
Mike, Steve, Mark, & Vince -Hafa 
wouldn't have been the sarre withoutadudes! Thanx lor making lrosh year 
you. Cm you televe we made II
fun! The party's not over not over yet ­
FOR SUMMER -3 bdrm hOuse. 2 mt NEED GRADUATION TIX. WILL throug-t April. can you believe THEY Mr. Potato Head would like know
LOST: SILVER SEIKO WATCH, 3 more years! We luv you! -your
from campus. near Marlins TRADE CONFIRMED RESERVATION made 11 through APRIL what's QOing on He mtsses you.
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN GRACE uP.W. chics"
$210/mo. (or leu] Call Rob(x1245). AT MARRIOTI & $$$ FOR 2 TIX. L•sa Learn to stop dominating conver­
AND THE LIBRARY. LOST LAST 
Rob(x1772). or Tom (x1601) CALL ROB AT 1561. sotoos
WEEKEND X4080 BILL The GrHn Avenger Strikes 
Lavs FLORIDA kiCked. thanks OQOin. • Desperately need COMMENCEMENT remember 'THERE WOULD BE 1\0 LIFE HAPPY BIRTHDAY TESS (Terry).
!!!LOST!!! NEW JERSEY CLUB LUGGAGE
TIX. 4 grandparents, 2 parents, aunt WITHOUT RCCKS' Happy 22nd Birthday. I value OLK
A PAIR OF GREY SUNGLASSES TRUCK
and uncle coming. Offering big $. TO ALL OF YOJ I LOVE YOJ GUYS AND tnendship rrore thon you'll ever know.
AT NEW JERSEY CLUB LUGGAGE
PLEASE call Tom at283-1667. WILL MISS YOU LOTS SEEYA20TH KEEKS I Wish you happness always I've lov­
RIGHT RIGHT SIDE, SOUTH DINING SOUTH BEND'S FINEST RECORD STORE TRUCK ed these post bur years Your frtend
HALL. CALL KATHLEEN X 2885. NEEDS PERSON WITH STR()r-.G MUSIC Info will follow in newsletter coming
I need 3 grad tix! please help! call always . .Ann Susie
REWARD OFFERED. BACKGROUND. AFTERI'JOONS. EVEN­this weekend. loading Sat May 10.
3727. 
IT'S HEREIII

INGS & WEEKENDS MAIL OR BRING Questions? Call John{4013) or Jerry 1ne arch1teciLKOI style of the North
RESUME TO TRACKS. 1631 E. EDISON. (4274). 
Quad has fnally been determlf1edUSS NO lifesaving ring taken out o' SOUTH BEND. IN 46637. 
South Dining Hall Friday is worthless Need Graduaton T1x Desperately"' Dru1d1c-greca-rac h o-goth ic­WEST SIDE STORY Congrotulallons an
ZONKER I'M NOTIII 

to you but most valuable to the WILL PAY ANY PRICEIII John 4057 neopostmodern•srn'" a fmtas:ac show'" Break legs dunng owner. Please return to either dining 
nfdbws the theory"~ 11 doesn't fit, put the Commencement snows. I'll te 
(See "Ticket" sactlon) 

1there... With you Oil~~ (I haven't IQrgal­hall -no questions asked. 
NEED RIDE TO BALTIMORE. 
ten you .... TON ( .....1was JUSt in a
PHilADELPHIA. OR CHERRY HILL. N.J 
lemp:>rary stal~ of lnS01ity when 1

HAVE BlG FAI\!1n..Y& NEED A LOT 1101 OF
I lost a large set of keys last week on AFTER CO!v1MENC WKND MAY 18 or CELLAR CLEARANCE SALE wrote the f~rst one I bve you. f~w
C01v1M TIXI WILL PAYI CALL PAUL Zltv1· 
a gold NO chain. If found call John at 19 Coli N'onika 3772 Today the cellar will be clearing out COJid I not?] Arolher rressoge from
ME'< 277-39121 Inventory at wholesale prlcea. Store

272-3388. you ta•thful fan. JAR 
open from 11:30 • 4:30. Dear Karen-1h•s has been such a -----­great year' 1hmk you for bringing so
................................. 
Slv1ALL REFI<G NEEDED CALL CATH much flfl to 411 Walsh-all those mid· 
FOR SALE CO'v1MENCEMENT TIXS BEST
284-4086 GLAMOUR POSTERS. Don't let that niQht "d•scuSSIOils" wren "we really 
CO'JGRATULATKJNS. NOISE' Thank 

Found one basketball at Lyons OFFER 289-8417 B411PM special guy or girl forget you during should be get11ng OLK s.'eep"-the tnp 01emo. Haml:lone, RS.
you and 

courts on Sunday April 20th, alter Air the summer! Give a photo poster by to the Candy rnoch•ne (VlO elevator of 
everyone InVOlved! You SUCCeeded 

Monyak vs. Armed and Dangerous nationally published model course). the greatest. most successful n shaking ND up a lillie bit thiS year ­game. Call John at 2151. RIDERS TO CALIFORNIA NEECID LEAV • photographer, Joe Ringer. 287-0613. happy hoLK EVER. Roach Fest ntema­end n making hte a lrttle brQ"lter torCommencement TiCkets Needed
11\G MAY 19 OR 20. SHARE EXPENSES tiQI')()I. and all the otrer ooly blond 
those of us With altemot•ve tastes n
Kalh1 x5848

CALL AMY AT 4189 amusements" nhas really rnecTlt a bt 
mUSIC Vertly vve '!Of lflto thee. 0\.X 

to me to shOre ail that-rQ"lt doWI) to cars bieedelh With dei91t' 
FOUNDFOUNDFOUND bedSheets. Q..TipS. md cotton txllls TONY LOVESMARIA 
Gold Cross Pen With Initials EMG. Thall< you. 'Karen-Honey... Love 
Ineed Corml8f1C81T18nl tiXS
Saw add before did not get number. WANTED TO BUY SII\GLE LOFT BEDS TONY LOVES MARIA Catherane P S I Call Rob 1780 CALL DEBBIE 239-5M4 MAY 1,2,3 and 15,16,17 at m rTlOIIInQ out on study day
Please call Geoff 289-3499 
O'LAUGHLIN 
see ADS, page 19 

----------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------.------­
The Observer Monday, May 5, 1986-page 14 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 
ENGINEERS 

~-----STRUCTURAL/MECHANICAL-----....1 
lmpell Corporation is a consulting engineering firm working within the power utility Industry. Due to our current workload. we are seeking graduate level engineers for summer employment within our Chicago office. To qualify, candidates should have a bachelor degree in 
structural/mechanical engineering with undergraduate and/or graduate course work lit the following areas: Structural steel analysis & design / Finite element analysis Structural dynamics/vibrations 
Direct resume to: 
Computer applications 
IMPEll CORPORATION Department 156 2345 Waukegan Road Bannockburn, Illinois 60015 







seven Campbell Conference final will be played in St. Louis tomor­

1---·BRING IN Tlf"C\ AD FOR~ OFF ___J 
row and thursday nights. 
Owner of four Stanely Cup rings from his days with the Montreal Canadiens, Risebrough scored twice in the first period and once in the third. 
Risebrough, Lanny McDonald and John tonelli, the oldest line in the NHL. played like youngsters all night, settling the hard-working ex­ample early and contributing to the bulk of the scoring., 
Men's tennis beats E. Mich. 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team capped off it's regular season yesterday with a 7-2 vic­tory over Eastern Michigan. Coupled with last Wednesday's 8-1 beating of Butler, the Irish finished the season under 1986 MCC Coach of the year Tom Fallon. 
AI.LIED SHIPPING 
Let us pack • ship your electronic equipment, stereo etc. direct to your home by U.P.S. 
219.277.7616 HOURS: 9-6 Mon-Fri 9-1 Sat UNMIIITY COMAONS
•u 
Styling 

531 N. Michigan St:, 
Phone 233-4957 

Notre Dame A venae ApartDients NOWIIEN1JNGFOBPAI.L 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. Qn site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for SummerSealon) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 134 '6647/256-5716 CaD Aaytime 
GoodwCndustries Needs: 
/

•clothing• shoes • toys • books* Ia 1m ps• kitchen goods*dolls*curtains* furniture 


GOODWILL NEEDS YOUR DONATIONS 
/

Campus Pick-up Locations: Notre Dame:'stepan Parking Lot St. Mary's:LeMans Parking Lot 
Saturday, May 10 10am-3pm 

I
1 . 
l 
{ 
l 

l 

Attention ND and SMC Juniors 

Obtain surveys through ND hall reps and SMC campus mail and at Student Activities for Off-campus 
Please fill out surveys by Tuesday, May 6th 


The Observer Monday, May 5, 1986-page 15 



May Specials 
Each dinner includes our Famous Salad Buffet and your choice of Rice Pilaf, French Fries, Vegetable or Baked Potata 
Your choice... 
• 
London Broil • Prime Rib 

• 
Chicken Breast $695 • Chicken Cordon $795


Monterey Bleu 
• Scrod Florentine • Trout Almandine 
May Specials Served Monday thru Friday from 5:00 p.m. Saturday 4 to 5 p.m. only • Sunday 11 to 2 p.m. & 4 to 8 p.m. 

I Reservations Accepted I
s1 to S4 OFF 
234-4477 1

I I I
Friday & Sunday only, with this coupon

I I
on the above low priced specials. Coupon good for $1.00 off per I customer, limit of 4 customers per party. Offer expires 5/31/86. I 
---·-•-•••••••COUPON ••••••••-•--' 
Women's tennis wins weekend pair 
thern all teh singles slots came away Bowling Green's part. The seniors
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
winners, while the number two once again led the way for the Sports Writer doubles chalked up a victory for squad, with Panther and Colligan the Irish making the score 7-2. at their familiar number one and 
The Notre Dame women's tennis Seniors Sisue Panther (Prarie two positions, but O'Brien moved team finished out its first season in Village, Kan.) and Mary Colligan up to number three singles for the Division I play with a weekend trip (Fort-Wayne, In.) won the number final match of her career. They to Northern Illinois where the Irish one and two singles respectively by went out in style, defeating their came away with two victories, mak­identical scores of 6-0, 6-1, while opponents by margins of 6-0,6-0; 6­ing their spring record 19-5. It was classmate Izzy O'Brien (Augusta, 4, 6-0; and 6-0, 6-0 respectively. a fine finish for the three seniors on Mich.) had to work a little harder the squad as well as for first year to come away with a 4-6, 6-2, 6-3 "It was so good to end on a coach Michele Gelfman. win. The doubles duo of Colli"gan positive note," says Panther. "It 
"There are mixed emotions about and O'Brien also fought hard to was very sd because I realized that the end of the season," commented come out ahead 7-5, 6-1 over the that was probably the last com­Gelfman. "You're glad in some Northern team. petetive match I would ever play, 
ways to be over with the rigors of but I've got a lot to look forward to practice and traveling, but it's The team then took on Bowling too. I've enjoyed the time I have tough to say good-bye to these Green in a match that took only 53 spent here -it was just a super girls. I've grown very fond of them minutes to complete. The Irish once bunch of people to be around." and I hope they know just how again came away with all the much they will be missed." singles victories with the number The final official duty for 
The Irish were favored against one and two doubles matches being Gelfman and her squad will take both Northern Illinois and Bowling suspended due to the lopsided place on May 1Oth when the tennis Green, and they didn't need much score. The number three doubles banquet will be held to honor the time to prove why. Against Nor-win was a result of a default on seniors and present team awards . 




GREYHO.UND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS SATURDAY, MAY lOth THRU THURSDAY, MAY 15th, TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS & BOXES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND BOOKSTORE MAY lOth THRU MAY 15th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100#. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 


United Parcel Service will be setting up A temporary customer counter for 
Shipping packages on the Notre Dame University Campus 
• Located at the Stepan Courts 
•open Monday, May 5-Friday, May 9 from 10:am to 6:00pm 
Note: Payment by check must be local check requires valid drivers license and student 1.0. 
MARKETING REPRESENTATIVE 
UNITED TELESPECTRUM is a rapidly-expand· 
ing subsidtary of UNITED TELECOM oHering 
wtde area radio paging products and 
cellulore mo!Jile telephone services to businessis and professionals. We are 
currently seektng a highly-motivated tndivtdual to represent us in northern 
Indiana 

This outside sales position requires a sales professional with a drive to excel and a dedtcalion to work hard to achieve goals. Dtrect sales experience and soles/marketing educationai background are preferred. 
we are rapidly expanding our services rrom coast-to-coast. With this expanston come many new opportunities tor personal career advancement 
Weotfer 

An attractive base salary plus comm­ission and car expenses-expected earn· ings at quota. S29K with unlimited potential 
Comprehenstve tratning 
An excellent l:>eneflt pochoge tncfuding medocat. dental, lite. stock ownership 
For tmmedtate consideration. send resume and salary htstory to. Dept SB 
••••••United •••TeleSpectrum 
1280 Dussell Drive. Suite a 
Maumee. Ohio 43537 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
Mavericks, Lakers win to even playoff series at t~o each 
Associated Press DENVER -Alex English scored six points in overtime, and Lafayette Lever and T.R. Dunn hit key free throws down the stretch yesterday, rallying the Denver Nug­gets to a 114-111 NBA playoff vic­tory over the Houston Rockets, squaring the series at 2-2. Game 5 in the best-of-seven series is set for tomorrow night in Houston. 
The Nuggets trailed 104-99 with 44 seconds left in regulation, but Denver reserve guard Elston Turner made a three-point basket and then clipped along the baseline for a reverse layup with 11 seconds remaining to send the game into overtime. 
Houston -getting solid play in the fourth quarter and in overtime from point guard Robert Reid, who scored 11 of his team's final 13 points -grabbed a four-point lead in the extra session on Reid's baseline jumper. 

Dallas 120, L.A. 118 
DALLAS-Mark Aguirre scored 39 points, including a critical tur­naround jumper with 38 seconds remaining yesterday, carrying the Dallas Mavericks to a 120-118 vic­tory over the Los Angeles Lakers and deadlocking their NBA western Conference playoff series at two games each. 
The fifth game of the best-of­seven series between the upstart Mavericks and the defending NBA champion Lakers, seeking to become the first team to successful­ly defend the title since the Boston Celtics in 1969, will be played tomorrow night at the Los Angeles Forum. 
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who set an NBA playoff record by appear­ing in his 173rd game, missed his patented sky hook from 10 feet away at the buzzer as the Mavericks secured their second straight vic­tory over the Lakers. 
Abdul-Jabbar scored 33 points to lead the Lakers, while Earvin "Magic" Johnson had 29 and Scott 22. 
The Observer Monday, May 15, 1986 -page 16 

Notre Dame golf team finishes 12th at Mid-American 
freshman Doug Giorgio and senior Lon Huffman. 
"Doug was playing in his first tournament and he responded beautifully to the challenge," said 
O'Sullivan.  Also responding  was  
Huffman,  who  according  to  
O'Sullivan  was  his  number  one  

player in his team's last four tour­naments. 
The results for the team in this weekend's tournament look like this. Doug Giorgio (72-84-75-231), Rich Connelly (76-75-76-227), John O'Donovan (85-81-73-239), Steve Fuhrer (78-77-75-230), and Lon Huffman (73-78-75-226). The medalist for the tournament was Jim Benete from Northwestern, who shot a 213 for the three days. 
O'Sullivan said that the way his team finished was a sign of a suc­cessful season. 
"We left with an upbeat feeling for next year," said O'Sullivan. "I am extremely proud of this team, especially the seniors, because they gave a lot of themselves and have given Notre Dame a good pro­gram." 
The team will be losing four seniors, including captain John O'Douovan, who O'Sullivan says always came through in the pinch. Another senior, John Anthony, has been nominated for academic all­America honors, which he was selected for last year. John cur­rently holds a 3.56 GPA and main­tains a sub 78 golf average (78 average or less is required for nomination). 
\ . 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO  strokes  behind  eventual  winner  
Sports Writer  Ohio State.  The Irish had a one­ 
day  total  of  299.  The  second  
The Notre Dame golf team con- round, however, was one to forget.  
eluded its season yesterday in what  A disastrous 311 total on day two  
Coach Noel O'Sullivan called a sue- left the squad one place from the  
cessful one.  In its finale, the Irish  ·  bottom heading into final round's  
joined its District 4 counterparts in  action.  But the Irish  responded  
the 20th Annual Mid-American In- with  a  sensational  final  round  
vitational tournament, which  was  (298), that fueled the squad into its  
hosted  by  Northern  Illinois.  A  final standing.  
total of 21  teams  (all of the Big  Notre Dame finished the tourna­ 
Ten, nine Mid-American, Marshall  ment with  a  3-day total  of 908,  
and Notre Dame), all from District  which  was  good enough  to  edge  
4, came with aspiration of claiming  teams  like  Michigan,  Mich.  St.,  
first-place honors.  Ohio, Bowling  Green and  N. 11­ 
The Irish, who finished twelfth,  linois who were expected to be top  
had a fine first round that put them  contenders.  Largely  responsible  
eighth  at  day's  end,  just  nine  for the Irish respectable finish was  

Na~j,t;;:;;;:n;;ky;,;,"No I SMCII
................................ 
Stop by and say goodbye on your way out oftown! 
FREE SUNDAE 
(with purchase) 
(Call us for late night studying munchies) 
usiness Activity Counci 
Honors 



Professor Nichols 
with the 
Outstanding Teacher Award 
at the College of Business Administration 
Annual Seniors and Faculty Social 


4:30-6:00 
Wednesday May 14 
Faculty Club 

Open Bar 

We are pleased to announce the following 1986 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become associated with our firm. ALBUQUERQUE OFFICE Mary C. Kinnucan, BA HARTFORD OFFICE Matthew J. Chavez, BBA Consulting Mary R. Heary, BA Audit Arthur C. Lumb, BBA Consulting Consulting Mary E. Hronchek, BBA ATLANTA OFFICE . Stephen D. McKay, BS AuditJoseph F. Ebberwein, BBA ConsultingAud;t LOS ANGELES OFFICE Matthew J. Michel, BS Randy M. Golob, BS BOSTON OFFICE Consulting ConsultingKathleen R. McCarthy, BBA Amit N. Patel, MBA Christopher T. Ishikawa, BBA Audit Audit AuditMark E. Oberlies, BBA Dana M. Phillips, BBA Colleen M. Nolan, BAAudit Audit ConsultingJohn M. Perlowski, BBA John W. Pietrowicz, BBA Audit Audit MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE Michelle D. Trosset, BBA Brian C. Rady, BBA Michael D. Michaux, BBA Audit Audit Audit Mike Rashid, BBA Carey M. Nelson, BBA CHICAGO OFFICE Audit ConsultingKatherine A. Balane, BBA James S. Reed, BBA Audit NEW YORK OFFICE AuditJacqueline M. Barry, BBA Bruce S. Blondin, BBA William P. Ryder, BBAAudit TaxAuditPeter P. Blood, BBA John J. Byrnes, BBA John C. Sekely, MBA Consulting AuditConsultingKaren M. Bobear, MBA Jeanene M. Colombo, BSDeanne M. Smith, BBA Consulting ConsultingAuditPamela M. Bombei, BBA Kevin P. Keenan, BBA Robert T. Spoonmore, BSTax AuditConsultingMark A. Bradshaw, BA David H. Smith, BBA Laura J. Temple, BA Consulting ConsultingConsultingLee F. Broussard, BBA David F. Tracy, BBA PHILADELPHIA OFFICEConsulting Audit Edward J. O'Hara, BBA Noreen C. Connor, BS Marci A. Yeakel, BBA AuditConsulting TaxDiedre A. Drehmel, BS PITJSBURGH OFFICE Consulting CHICAGO WORLD Mark S. Mannion, BBA Daniel J. Dresset, BS HEADQUARTERS Audit Consulting John K. Kaltenmark, BS SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE John G. Duffy, BBA Technical SetVices David C. Graham, BA Audit John E. lawler, BS ConsultingRobert E. Dunn, BA Technical SetVices Michael T. Huber, BS Consulting Timothy l. Mould, BA ConsultingKendra K. Erven, BS Technical SetVices Lon J. Huffman, BS Consulting CINCINNATI OFFICE ConsultingElizabeth A. Fitzpatrick, BS Robert W. Dieckman, BBA Michael R. Normant, BSConsulting Audit ConsultingJill A. Hansen, BS Susan M. Hemmer, BS Consulting STAMFORD OFFICE ConsultingMary E. Harrington, BA Steven E. Jegier, BBA Consulting DETROIT OFFICE Consulting Gregory R. Herman, BA Daniel J. Scanlan, BBA WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICEConsulting Audit Theresa J. Campbell, BSElena M. Hidalgo, BBA GRAND RAPIDS OFFICE ConsultingConsulting Jane M. Boland, BBA James P. Sinnott, BBA Christopher C. Hirschfeld, BA Audit AuditConsulting Timothy P. Clark, BBA Teresa M. Kilgannon, BA AuditConsulting We are pleased to announce the following 1986 graduates of the University of Notre Dame Law School hav& recently become associated with our firm. CHICAGO OFFICE Scott R. Bilse, JD Linda L. Mekhitarian, JD Tax Tax We are pleased to announce the following 1986 graduates of St. Mary's College have recently become associated with our firm. ATLANTA OFFICE Joan M. Callaghan, BBA Angela S. Laub, BS Maureen H. O'Sullivan, BBA Audit Consulting Audit Camille E. Cutrara, BBA AuditCHICAGO OFFICE Mary M. Gorenz, BBASusan C. Avitible, BA AuditConsulting ARTHUR ANDERSEN &£9; 33 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 (312) 58(H)033  


( 

./ 
The Obse~Wr Monday, May 5, 1986 -page 17 
Leslie M. Bodnar, M.D. Orthopaedic Surgeon-Sports Medicine 
Will be closing his office on the Notre Dame campus on May 16, 
1986. Thereafter his practice will be restricted to his downtown 
office at 328 North Michiaan, South Bend, IN 46601, (219) 234-1159 


THE BQ$;:3SHOPPE 
IIIII"/ Iot/ \ f'l••f< 1\/tl//od /fo>l/11~' /,·i/111 

Moving Boxes, Storage Boxes 
• l'.u k.~!S'' ~i••!lj•'1l•;, 
• Flur.ti T,~'"' • I· ,p,·rr 1'.,. ''·"'! :-:>..r ",. 
• ::ipt·ciil!tv Ro.-.. ~ • ~ttdl!,(~ ltilw~ 
• K••.. 
• I ·•P•' 
• k,.' !),~i>''"'·l"!' 
• I-• ",...,•. Po1· ~:!li•~ f'v1,,t,·r:(l! 
• 
( ;•!t \\'r,qnnnq 


• Sh:ppa1:' Fr:--. i'!( ·p··~
• 
f,.,,,,,l! t-~ H~'"".... & (,1 IJlfdl!it'l .... 

JMS Plaza, Grape Rd., Mishawaka (next to Uncle's Irish Pub) 
277-9777 
Open: 10om-6pm M-F 1 Oam-2pm Sat 
DEPAUL 
UNIVERSITY 
SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY 


REVIEW COURSE FOR THE NOVEMBER 1986 CPA EXAMINATION 
June 23-0ctober 24, 1986 
THE  THE  
FACULTY  LAB SESSIONS  
THE  THE  
COVERAGE  PASS RATE  
THE  THE  
APPROACH  MEDALS  

Classes meet Monday, Wednesday and Friday 
evenings, or Tuesday, Thursday evenings and 
Saturday mornings. Classes held at DePaul's Loop 
Campus. Call341-8640 for information. 
School of Accountancy 
DePaul University 
25 E. Jackson Boulevard 
Chicago, Illinois 60604-2289 
Please send me a brochure and admission from the DePaul University CPA Review Course. 
Name __________________________________ 
Address ------------------------------­

L-~------~~-~~----J 
• : A large banner belonging to the Notre Dame : : Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa bas been taken from : • the Library Auditorium Lounge. This banner IS • • needed for the initiation ceremonies for new • : members. Prontpt return of this banner to the : : proper location would be greatly appreciated by : : all concerned. : 
• 

Hospitality and Reasonable Pi·!ces *Pork with Garlic Sauce $5.45 
•Chicken with Hot Pepper Sauce $5.75 
Now accepting reservations for Graduation Weekend. 
Mon.· Thurs.: 11:30om-10pm  Bar open 7 days c week  For carry out  
Fri.·Sat.: 11:30om·11pm  130 Dixie Highway South  or  
Sun. 81 Holldcys  South Bend,lndianc  reservations  
11:30om·10pm  
Happy Hour: 5pm-7pm  Oft U.S.I1 Nollie.._.tao ........ 1M  272-7376  

SeniorService Mass 
All students to whom service has been a part oftheir life at Notre Dame are invited to a graduation day mass on the lawn at Holy Cross Hall on Sunda , Ma 18, at 10:30am 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Students earn money and gain job 
experience this summer. Positions 
now open in:  
• Marketing • Personnel • Distribution • Communications  • Finance • Accounting • Manufacturing • Telemarketing  

No experience necessary. No fee, no contract. We have the positions/hours to keep you busy this summer. 
~r Contact these offices for more Information: 
-~lit. 

1900 East Golf Rd. 
Schaumburg, Ill. 
312/882-1233 
2400 Devon Ave. 
Des Plaines, Ill. 
312/699-0950 
2021 Spring Road Oakbrook, Ill. 312/654·2797 
4255 West 8 rook 0 rive Aurora, Ill. 312/82Q-1705 
8707 Skokie Blvd Skokie, Ill. 312/673-4024 
4740West 95th St. Oaklawn, Ill. 312/636-0401 645 North Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, Ill. 
312/337·6054 
150 North Wacker Drive Chicago, Ill. 
312/977-0791 
108 N. State St. Chicago, Ill. 312/782·4181 
Northwest Office Automation 2700 River Road Des Plaines, Ill. 312/699-9970 
Chicago Office Automation 108 N. State St. Chicago, Ill. 312/346-9276 
Bring in this ad and receive an additional $20.00 on 
your first paycheck. 




On any Rent-it-Here, Leave-it-There
I~ 

RYDER Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials. 




RYDER 

SOUTH BEND rents trucks to move it yourself LOCATIONS 1914 Miami St.

Ryder Truck Rentat·One·Way 

2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 AMX 277-3550 ORDW<EASC~ 2627 South Main St. 
232-6729 
Fo~;~L~·~:v~=Gs 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 
SMC softball finishes 5th 
Special to Tbe Observer 
The Saint Mary's softball team concluded its 1986 season with a 
fifth-place  finish  in  the  NAIA  
district  tournam ent  over  the  
weekend.  

The Belles, who were seeded seventh going into the tournament, opened play with a tough 2-1 vic­tory over Huntington College. Franklin College then handed Saint Mary's an 8-7 loss, and St. Francis followed with a 3-1 win over the Belles in their final contest of the year. 


Shields 
continuedfrom page 20 
weekend for Gallo., as he has seen 
more than his share of one and two 
run losses. 
"So close but yet so far away," philosophized Gallo after the season finale. "And yet ever so close. a key hit in the right time this weekend and we win three games." 
Gallo's 1986 team finished with 22 wins and 28 losses, or a .444 winning percentage, slightly below last year's .491 percentage, and Gallo's second-worst year at the helm of the Irish in that respect. 
"If anything can be learned by the guys coming back next year after this season is that you've got to have tremendour concentration­every game, every inning, every out, every pitch. The difference between winners and losers in col­
~ge and the pros ~ th~ if you make the plays and play three outs an innings, you're going to win. You can expect to give the other teams outs and win." 

e 
Town and·Country Barber Shop, Mlshawak 
open 9-6, Mon.-sat. 

AIIJED 
SIIIPPDIG 
Let us pack 8l ship your electronic equipment, stereo etc. direct to your home by U.P.S. 
219-277.7616 HO(JJlS: 9-6 Mon-Fri 9-1 Sat 
UNIVEIIITYCOMMONS 
.23 

The psychology dept. needs mature adults for vision/memory research. Without YOU no research is possible 
Call Judy 239-6659 
ANn·VIOlENCE VOUJN'lDIIS Center for Teaching Non-Violence is ICCJdna full·time staft: l..odalDa. 
•150/mo., A: health covea-.. One year commitment with UOOO separation scipcnd. Public interat racarcb and publisbina on agra­
sk>n,  developing  COW'IIeS  on  non·  
violence  and  operatinl  National  
Coalidon  on  Television  Violcncc  

(TV, 8l.ma, war toys, apans, etc.). Next to Univenity ol!WDois. Scudeat &o.ns dduable. :!17·384-1910. Resume to lbomu ladedd, M.D.. Bos 2157 -1161820. 
I I I I e 



Finale 
continuedfrom page 20 

\ 

didn't always show up in the box­score. 
"Overall, we had an unselfish group of guys who sacrificed themselves. They were always receptive to changes we made in the best interest of the team. There was a lot of comradery, and that was a nice part of the team. Everyone really got along and like each other. 


.. 
Tony Rettino echoed the thoughts of his coach. 
"I was pleased with this year. We played together a lot more, said Rettino. "Joe Franklin and Tom Grote were our leaders on and off the field while Mike Rice did an outstanding job helping on defense. I really enjoyed playing with all of the seniors. During our gour years, the lacrosse program has really come a long way." 
That is true since the Irish have accumulated nine victories in the past three campaigns. Tim Cor­rigan spoke about his best moments in his career here and about the team's season. 
"Beating Denison twice was the best thing we could have done for the school and every one involved, " said Corrigan. "I think we had a successful year. We set our goals 


The Observer 

high, but we didn't quite reach where we wanted to be." 
One more victory would have capped off a fantastic season for the Irish. For a while it looked Jike the Irish would get victory number ten but it simply was not to be. 
It was a beautiful day for lacrosse action with the temperatures in the 60's, and the sun filling the sky as Notre Dame battled Michigan State on Alumni Field to close out the season. The Irish drew first blood quickly, as Joe Franklin did what he has done 
so  often  throughout  his  career  
which is to score.  
Then,  the  other  high  scoring  
senior,  Tom  Grote,  took  a  pass  

from junior Jim Shields and dashed free from the green-dad Spartans to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. Two more goals by Franklin sandwiched around Michigan State's first tally gave the Irish a 4-1lead. 
Junior Dave O'Neill scored off of another pass from Shields to give the Irish a 5-2 quarter advan­tage. The Irish dominated the se­cond period as they outscored the Spartans 3-1 in the quarter. 
Their first goal in the quarter came on a perfectly executed fast break goal which was finished off by Franklin. Then, sophomore John Burtis beat his man and took it in unassisted. To cap off the first half scoring, goalie Matt Mc­Quillan provided a crowd pleasing assist to Grote to extend the lead to 8-2. 
Michigan State scored with just 14 seconds left in the quarter to give them momentum to start the second half. Four scored by the Spartans put them right back in the game as they trailed 8-7 with a little more than 6 minutes remaining in the quarter. 
Tom Grote helped the Irish re­bound with their only goal in the quarter, but the Spartans tied the game at 9-9 by the end of the third period. However, again it would be Grote who would answer for Notre Dame as he put the Irish up 10-9. Michigan State battled right back and soon took their first lead at 11­10. 
Shields tied up the contest with 
5:07 remaining as he kept battling with the goaJie before finally knocking the ball in the net. That set up the last second heroics forf the Spartans as Dan Christ got th~ ball in the goal with only 5 secondi left to close the 1986 season ~ on the Notre Dame lacrc~am. 
The team -~ ·ues t be rememberecr jet 1ts superb perfor­manc,. a~~mst Denison and also its cred1f11e game against Midwest power, Ohio Wesleyan. 




NEWSCHEDULE 
lEAVI' LEAVE LEAVE ARRIVE ARRIVE NOTRE MICHIANA McDOIIALOS MICHIAIIA III.ITRE DAME RE&IDIIAL ARRIVI' Z20 NO. REGIONAL DAME IUS AIRPORT ARRIVE ARRIVE CIIICA80 LEAVE MICHIGAN LEAVE AIRPORT BUS SHELTER SOUTH BEllO O'HARE MIDWAY DOWIITDWII MIDWAY DOWNTOWN O'HARE SOUTH BEllO SHELTER 
3:201.111. 3:401.111. 8:00 1.11. 
8:30a.m. 10:50 a.m. 11:05 1.111.

5:20 1;111. 5:40a.m. 8:001.11. 7:45 a.m. 8:30 a.m. 9:50 a.m. 10:40 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:50 p.m. 1:05 p.m.7:20a.m. 7:40 1.111. I0:00 a.m. 9:45 1.11. 10:30 a.11. 11 :50 a.m. 12:40 p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:50 p.lll. 3:05 P,ll.9:20 a.lll. 9:40 1.111. 12:00 p.m. 11:45 p.m.12:30 p.m. 1:50 p.m. 2:40 p.m. 2:30p.m. 4:50 p.m. 5:05 p.m.11:20 a.m. 11:40 a.m. 2:00 P,lll. 1:45 p.m. 2:30 p m. 3:50p.m. 4:40 p.m. 4:30 p.ll. 6:50 p.m. 7:05 p.m.
1:20 p.ll. 1:40 p.m. 4:~ p.ll. 3:45 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 5:50 p.m.3:tll p.m. 3:40p.m. 8:00p.m. 5:45 p.11. 8:30 p.m. 7:50 p.m.5:20p.m. 5:40 p.lll. 1:00 p.m. 7:45 p.11. 1:3Ct'p.m. 10:30 p.m.
. .
7:20p.m. 7:4C p.m. 10:00 JJ.II. • 
ALL ARRIVALS AIID DEI'r~IITUIIEI 011 LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LilT OF PICKUP I'OIIITS a TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-6993 OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 

f 
i ·: -: 
8:40 p.m. 6:30p.m. 8:50 p.m. 9:05 p.m.
8:40 p.m. 8:30p.m. I0:50 p.m. 11 :05 p.111.
• 10:30 p.ll. 12:50 a.lll. 1:051.11. 12:30 1.m. 2:50 ..... 3:05 •.•. 
....--­
FUN IN THE SUN AT... 

KUGLER'S RESORT 
1252 Barron Lk. Rd., Niles. Ml Opens May23 It's That Thne Agai~ Just 9 Miles North of ND Q A. \\lo\\\\e eey.e'C\uSPECIAL 
Monday, May 5, 1986-page 18 

Denver•s T.R. Dunn gets by Atlanta's Randy Wittman in an earlier game between the two playoff team. Yesterday. the Hawks downed Boston. Denver squeaked by Houston in overtime and Dallas beat the L.A. Lakers. Details appear on page 15. 

~ Go Students!! Beat Finals!! .­
~ -­
~ ~ 
~ Take advantage of our ~ 
: FREE DELIVERY : 
iC during Finals Week il· ~ Let us help you keep your energy up ~ ~ for late night studying ~ 
~ ­
~---~ clipandsave ·-----------------~ 
:iC NIIAUGLES" ~:V.m .....,..,, 272-5455 : ~
501 Dlxieway North, Roseland. Indiana 
ie NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! ~ ~ MEXICAN KI~H~.:: AM~~~~!~. ~~~~EN ­
~ T.co 1.09 1.69 CUSTOM GRILLID NOT STOCK PILFD ~ 
Boontt-N••gleburger 1.99 Be.. 1.79 2.49 2 Patties wtth the works ~ M..t 2.39 3.19 double ct-se ~ 
cc~ 1.09 2.79 ~ 
-~ 1.19 2.59 Delne H•mburger 1.39 Make M>y lu1ito wet lor 50 cents~ 2 Panies wtth lettuce. ~ PS. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a tomato, mayo clre55ing ~ poundol~' H•mbur81!r 1.19 ~ 
~ N.clllo. It a.ee-1.19 2 Panies with pickle. ketchup, ~ """" Haw "'""' .auce lor no extJa charge to spice them mustard, onion ~ ~ '-" that much more. add c'-w .20 iiC 
iC ~$:.;........ ....... ~·~ .:::..:,"'!'~~~:~"'::. ._ 

s~~\lS~~~~ot\0\~ ATIRACTIONS ; ~~.. :"'_ ~=~-" ~E ; 
9
1'' **************** -"""" ChUeOie' 295: ; 2.39 ~ 
DRIFTWOOD SALOON T•c:o S.ndwlc:h 1.49 2·59 DRINK UPI -­
Chkl<en Sandwich I 74 2 84 
VIDEO GAME ROOM -. . ca1c1 a--..,..
Planer Assortment of sauces & side orders .J.r PADDLE BOAT RENTALS -want rt a specoal way. just order it' Uter • .94 ~ Pepsi. Diet Pepso. Roots-. MI. Dew ~ 
HIGH DIVE Enc:hll•d•'e (Piauer of 2) 0.. Pepper. Welctws. s...!ust. lA!monade ~ 
SANDY BEACH ~ M...t • lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 Ice Tea. Milk. Orange Juice -Chkbn 2.50 •-­
NILES PICNIC AREA -Hot_...... · · 47 
DINNERS "'~--Hoi CllorolaM u-T ~ 
SWIMMING AREA •I Enrhll•d•. 1 beef '-"'""'· . '"" ea ~ Sunrill CIDmera MUSIC ~ •2 M•cho T.co SIDE ORDERS ~ BASKET AND VOLLEYBALL COURT ~ "3 Me•t Burrito Fr-=h Frtn .99 ~ 
'I 
"""" •4 Cheeee Burrito A Tub RefrW a-.. .99 ~ Edl dlbu GOOD fOOD ~ Complete with Mexocan salad. reined beans. cl\ili & wttlo dllll .....,.. .99 ~­
U.l.12 
u.s 1 

••r rg AND MUCH MORE """" '"""""· yuacamole. ""''''"am & • piN! of chips ~~Fresh. Fresh. Fr~ ::: ~ A dinner With~ lrit over lot tomorrow's LlJNCHI Sotor c._ .25 
"""" 4.79 Eatr• "'"--r-• ...,...... .50 ~ 
lo.ltftcr 

k .. 
Plus tax on prices · SS.OO m;,r;.lum order .,M 
I. 9 00 t 9 00 7 
~~~~~~~~~~~~=~~o~=~~~~~a~w~e~e~ -----------·cl~and~~----------~~ 
-; .­



Monday, May 5, 1986-page 19 
The Student Activities 8 oord Present sH##...,.....,. 

Mary Healy­
You really stand
with 

out in a crowd! 
Domino's Pizzo, 
Thanks for all your help 
lceOeom,&D.J. 
and good luck 
Monday, May 12th 4 :3 0 -6:3 0 
Your assistants-
out s.ide the ~-South DininqHoll 
Mary&Cathy 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

Zeto Kevin Walsh 


ACROSS 1 Cooked 5 Trolley car 
sound 10 Surrealist 
painter 14 Holly 15 More rotiust 16 Redact 17 Word with 
stick or shot 18 Awesome 20 Goes on a 
spree 22 More pallid 23 Hwys. 24 Leopold or 
Mischa 25 Syndicate 28 Detonated 32 Cut down 33 Calyx leaf 35 Excitement 36 12-point type 38 Ventures on 40 Average 41 Author Dahl 43 Seed coat 45 Small drink 46 Burst inward 48 UFO crew 50 Ermine and 
mink 51 Author Stoker 52 Philosopher 
Pascal 55 Chopper's berth 59 Conveying 
vividly 61 Melville novel 62 Get to one's 
feet 63 Murrow's 
"-Now" 64 Engrossed 65 Tethered 66 Tales 67 Palmetto 
DOWN 1 Kind of jockey 2 Sp. stew pot 3 Approximate 4 Send abroad 5 Cheated 6 Disables 
FACE IT K'l/), YOU i?c 
t.ITHER GOING TO REPAINT n-/15 WI-KX.£ ROOM oft Wt~ OIAR<=--f?' wu... ,
wHA.T rs mAr?. 

5/5/86
All Rights Reserved 
7 Jungfrau and 
Eiger 8 Abner's father 9 Matured 
10 Craving 11 Mine entrance 12 Exist 13 Brain passage 19 Ledge 21 Shoshoneans 24 Automotive 
parts 25 Bay of Naples 
isle 26 Truism 27 Summary 28 Like an otary 29 Buzz 30 Rose-red dye 31 Descents 34 Head tops 49 Meaning 55 Sacred: pref. 37 Tremendous 51 Former Br. 56 Khayyam or 39 Actresses foreign Bradley 42 Drench minister 57 Ship's line 44 Asian range 52 Comic Lahr 58 Racetrack 47 Sartorially 53 62 board 
smart 54 Church area 60 Vast expanse 
• 

More Far Sides 


"Wendell ... I'm not content." 
Ads 
continued/rom page 13 
D.C. CLUB BAGGAGE TRUCK P1ck up May 101-4 pm and May 11 12-3 pm Beh1nd the bookstorelll QuestiOns call Jolin at 1517 
MAKE MOf\IEY-Groduot1ng senors need to sell the1r bul1on mak1ng moch1ne Grea1 way to .make some spe11d1ng money next year. Ports in­cluded Call 1072 tor deta11s 
THANKS ST. JUDE-I MADE IT 
And Then There Were Jwo•.. 2 Days nil The CPAI 
Remember, you are only 2 days from the PINNACLE of your career. 
CPA•..•.DEAD 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Universal Press Syndicate 

"Now, here's a feature you folks would really enjoy ... Vollal A tree right orr the master bedroom." 
Gary Larson 

"OK, guys, let's move in on those three Herefords in the corner .... Bob, you take the 'Triple R.' Dale, you take the 'Circle L,' ar.d I'll take the 'Lazy Q.'" 
• 
CONGRATULATIONS TO RUDY BRANDL WHO GOT 2100 VOTES IN THE UMOC ELECTIONSIIIANYONE WHO SEES HIM WILL AGREE THAT HE REALLY IS TH{ UGLIEST MAN ON CAMPUSI 
GREAT JOB, GEORGE the JETIII Kathy 
OOAD IS AGODDESS LINEAR IS A GODDESS [Anything tor the last personal) 

; 
I 1 

~ 
\·, 
' l 
. ,· Monday, May 5, 1986-page 20 

Shields sets hit record as Irish drop 3 out of 4
)' \ By TERRY LYNCH doubled down the line in rightH Sports Writer field, breaking the record. "Things were just going my
... 
This is the way the season ended -way," said Loughran after the I~' not with a whimper but a bang. 
\ game. 
While the last series of the Irish Unbelievably , the show that \ baseball season saw the Nor­Loughran put on in the second I' thwestern Wildcats take three out game at Jake Kline field was j of the final four games on the eclipsed by none other than Tom 
\' schedule, the team chose a strategic Shields. Shields, the senior short­time to get the only win of the stop playing in his final game for weekend -the end. the irish, was 5-for-6 with two RBis 
The Irish exploded for 22 runs on and scored threee runs. Althoug h 26 hits in the second game of he will finish with a team leading yesterday's doubleheader in a 22-5 .442 average (50 for 113), he is 12 pasting of the Wildcats. tom at bats shy of the NCAA qualifying Shields was a combined 7-for-10 in number to be recognized as the yesterday's games, and designated team leader. hitter John Loughran broke the "Tom Shields will get drafted Irish single season record for base and play in the pros," predicted hits (69) in his last at bat. head coach Larry Gallo. "The 
"I didn't think I'd get it~" said scouts know he was injured this Loughran of the record. "I was 1-season and didn't get the hits he had for-4 in the first game and I needed last year. They're giving him

Tyler qualifies for NCAA 1500s; 
five hits. I didn't think I would get credit. Heck, he played in the first up enough." game of the season and hit a double Loughran, a junior, came back and a triple and struck out four

ND takes Midwest Catholic title 
in the second game, going 4-for-5 times. And half the time the bat with three RBis and scoring three would end up in the dugout because By KATHLEEN McKERNAN track, called Mondo, is just a While sprinter Phil Glimore did runs. He also provided the big his shoulder hurt so much heSports Writer perfect consistency for running -not wither of his 100 or 200 events, blow in the Irish fourth, belting a couldn't hold onto it."
not too hard, not too soft." he placed a strong second in both 
When a successful two run homer to right-center to ef­Shields and the irish didn't fare
very Irish While the conditions were perfect races to DePaul's Dale Tobias. 
fectively put the game out of reach so well in the other three games of
Track weekend came to a close, for Tyler, the rest of the track team Gilmore, a senior from Newark, Head Coach Joe Piane left no ques­running in the Midwest Catholic ran a solid 10.7 in the 100 and 22.4 for the Wildcats. the series, dropping both games tions about what he though of his Championships also excelled. in the 200. Loughran was also the benfactor Saturday by scores of 3-2 and 8-1 at team's performance. Notre Dame ran away with the In the javelin competition, Notre of some extraordinary good luck in Evanston. The Irish dropped the 
"We got a lot out of the meet," meet, finishing with a total of 88 Dame's Brian Driscoll threw for his final at bat, when Wildcat cat­first game yesterday by a 6-4 tally. Piane said of his split squad's per­points. Marquette and DePaul 191-1 to win the event, but 
cher John Nienki dropped an easy It was a typically frstratingformance this weekend at the trailed far behind with respective freshman Chuck Curley also fly landed a few feet
pop thatMidwest Catholic Championships. totals of 56 and 45. Even farther revealed some promise with a 172­see SHIELDS, page 17behind the plate. Loughran then

"I'm really pleased." behind was Aquinas with 11, and 11 throw. And, a few hours south of the Detroit and Maryville failed to Hurlder Paul O'Connell won the Monogram Track, another member score. 400 IM with a time of 55 .1. He also 

Irish lose lead, game 
of the Notre Dame track team got a Qualifying for the IC4A's from put the Irish ahead in the 4 x 400 lot out of his performance at the Notre Dame were Tom Warth in relay in his second leg. In the third National Invitational meet in In­the 10,000 and Gary LeKander in leg, the Irish lost some ground. 


in '86 season's closer 
dianapolis. Jim Tyler, a member fo the triple jump. Tom Warth, who Coming into the baton exchange at I1\ ' the All-America 4 x 800 relay team, ran a 30.23.2 time, finished second the end of the third leg, Notre By FRANK HUEMMER of his seniors and felt they have
\I 
became Notre Dame's second sub­in the event, however. to Mar-Dame was last. Through a smooth Sports Writer contributed greatly to this yearsL four minute miler Saturday. quette's Keith Hanson, whose time baton pass between legs, the Irish team. \ : Tyler, with a time of 3:42.16 in of 30:01.6 set a Monogram Track passed a speedy DePaul relay The Notre Dame lacrosse team "They have been leaders on and \ , the 1 ,500 meter run, qualifies for record. Without the qualifying team. Then the anchorman, All-enjoyed a tremendous season filled off the field and have been so­the NCAA Championships in June time, the race probably would have American John McNelis, pulled with many emotional highs and meone who the underclassmen_
{ 
at the same Indiana site. His time is been the last for Warth, a senior ahead of the Marquette team to lows. The epitome of that came could look up to," said O'Leary. second on the Irish all-time list only from Rochester, New York. take the race 3:22.4. McNelis also this past Saturday, as the team "They were willing to work with 
L 
l ~· to the first four minute miler, Another senior, Gary LeKander, won the 400 meter individual race played a fine first half and then fell our younger guys and they had Chuck Aragon. also qualified for the IC4A's with a with a 49.3 time. flat in the second half before finally really good relationships with each 48-2 triple jump. For the native of Mike Brennan also ran what falling to Michigan State, 12-11. member of our team." "The conditions were just Salinas, Calif., the jump passes his Coach Piane called "A good, In the courst of the setback, five perfect," Tyler said. "I knew I was personal best of 47 feet coming into strong, competitive race•• in the 110 Notre Dame players made their fhe Irish ended up the year at 9­
f 
ready. It was a question of getting season by more than a foot. high hurdles with a time of 14.96. final appearance in Irish uniforms. 4, which ties their record for most in a race where everything fit Rick Mulvey, in the steeplechase, At midfield, Tim Corrigan and wins in a single season. They finish­together. Everything worked the took the race witha 9:25.06 time, In Indianapolis, other members Tony Rettino finished out their ed at 5-l in the Great Lakes Con­, . way I would have liked." then ran again in the 5000. While of Notre Dame's track team who career while on defense co-captain ference with Michigan State pro­
The fast pace set by another run-Mulvey, a sophomore business rna-travelled down to the National In-Mike Rice ended his. In addition to viding that only blemish. O'Leary ner, Tony Brahm of Indiana, jor, did not run a particularly vitational didn't fare as well as . these seniors, all-time leading said that this season was helped Tyler break the mark. outstanding steeplechase time, he Tyler or the other teammates to the scorer Joe Franklin and co-captain characterized by results th&t didn't Brahm, who eventually finished se-succeeded in pacing his overall north. Rob Nobles, Van Pearcy, Tom Grote both ended their il-reflect his squad's effort. cond, also broke the four-minute meet. Tony Ragunas and Ron Markezich lustrious careers. "We lacked the consistency dur­benchmark. "He ran what-he needed to run to had hoped to qualify for the IC4A's All five of thes seniors have ing the year, but the one thing you Tyler also had praises for In-win," Piane said. "He ran well with Tyler, but the best they made an impact on the Notre Dame can't fault our guys with is their ef­
diana's track surface. enough to win in the steeplechase managed was Nobles' fourth-place program and have helped it to fort, he added. "Unfortunately that "It's just like the Olympic track and then came back to run in the finish in the 800, which did not hit steadily improve each year. Head 
in Los Angeles," he explained. "The 5000 for us." the mark. Coach Rich O'Leary spoke highly see FINALE, page 18
------------------------------------,



I SUBSCRIBE NOW! 1 
I The Observer I 
I It Only Makes Sense that a newspaper published by 1 I students is the best source of sports and news at Notre Dame. 1 I Join the more than 12,000 readers who keep up to date on Notre· Dame and the 1I Fightin' Irish through Tbe Observer. We go beyond any other ne·wspaper to give you II a comp~bensive picture ot the Notre Dame community. I 
I Make checks payable to: The Observer I1 ana mail to: P 0 Box Q Name 
I ~~~-.:-==' 0 Enclosed is $40 lor oneNa:::::i::~~~-46556 Addre-ss----------------I 

three offour from Shields and his teammates this weekend. Terry Lynch has the details in his story at right. • 
t_____,_~:;.:._:. ____g_=:.s::~~~::==~----:______,::___,:__J 




