
Spring Break -pages 6, 7 
/ r-. 

VOL. XX NO. 109 TUESDAY, MARCH 11, 1986 
. . 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Pathologists examine shuttle crew remains, sea search continues 
AMMiated PrHS 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­Pathologists yesterday examined remains of Challenger's crew, sources reported, while high winds and seas hampered the ocean search for more body parts and debris such as data tapes that might pr~JVide clues to the disaster. 
Some remains and crew cabin wreckage were brought ashore secretly Saturday night by the Navy salvage ship USS preserver, which entered port without running lights, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. · 
In announcing Sunday that the cabin debris and remains had been found on the ocean floor, NASA did not say whether anything had been recovered. The agency said it would respect family wishes and not comment again until the opera­tion was completed. 

NASA spokesman said nothing yesterday. The Navy, which is con­ducting the search, said the 213­foot Preserver was at the scene where the cabin debris was found but declined to say whether divers were on the ocean floor. 
Recovering cabin wreckage and body remains depends on weather and sea conditions, NASA said, and could take days. The search was slowed yesterday by winds up to 20 mph and waves as high as eight feet. 

Private boats were barred from an area two miles around the search site and private planes were kept five miles away. Sections of the cabin were found approximately 18 miles northeast of Cape Canaveral at a depth of 100 feet. 
Five men and two women died in the fiery explosion 73 seconds after Challenger left its launch pad here Jan. 28. 
Data tapes that were in the cabin could shed light on the cause of the explosion, but it was not known how well the tapes survived. 
The sources did not know if re­mains of all seven had been located. They said recovered body parts had been taken to a hospital at Patrick Air Force Base, 25 miles south of here, where they were ex­amined yesterday by forensic ex­perts from the Armed Forces In­stitute of Pathology. 
The condition of the bodies was not known by the sources, but they said "we're talking about remains, not bodies." 
The examinations were not only 
The Observer/Paul Pahoresky
for identitfication, but also could 
Wheel of fortune
help determine whether the 
Senior Leslie Gordon, putting her creative ability to work last night at the Riley Hall ofArt and Design, molds a clay pot. 
see SHUTILE, page 5 



Test turnS tables on 200,000 Texas teachers 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Approximate­ly 200,000 teachers, principals and other Texas aducators faced their own no-pass no-play rule yesterday as they took a test to determine whether they read and write well enough to keep their jobs. 
Texas approved a public school reform law in 1984, joining Arkan­sas and Georgia in requiring teachers and other school officials to take literacy tests. 
The measure included a no-pass no-play rule that bars students from extracurricular activities if they fail any class. 
Texan educators who don't pass the test by June 30 will lose their teaching certificates and jobs. A se­cond test for those who failed the first exam will be given June 28. 
National Computer Systems Inc., an Iowa testing company, will grade the exams and teachers will be told by May 1 only if they pass or fail. 
State education officials predicted approximately 10,000 teachers would fail the first test. The commissioner of education may grant a one-year emergency waiver to teachers who fail both tests, but any other appeals would have to be made through the courts. 

Most educators said the test -55 multiple choice questions, 30 on writing skills, and a 150-work essay -was easy. The passing grade is 75 percent. 
"Piece of cake," said fourth­grade teacher Patti Turman of Austin, the first to finish, "I feel a lot of my students could have answered a lot of those questions.'' 
Students had the day off while their teachers were tested. 
"Honestly, I don't see how a per­son who fails this test could have ever gotten a degree at any college," said A1 Martin, a Texas Education Agency employee. 
Many teachers were insulted at taking a test to keep their jobs. 
State teaching certificates were issued for a lifetime before the 1984 law. 
"After graduating from college and taking all those tests, why go back and take and eight-grade test?" asked Houston high school teacher Linda Savell. 
Some teachers wore protest but­tons or stickers yesterday, and special education teacher Judy Boston collected names on a protest petition outside Austin High School. 
One teacher was exempted from the test Friday when State District Judge R.L. Eschenburg ruled she had earned her teaching certificate before the reform law was passed. 
University's highest honor awarded to trustee, wife 

Special to Tbe Observer 
Notre Dame Board of Trustees Chairman Thomas Carney and his wife, Mary Elizabeth of Lake Forest, Ill., have been awarded Notre Dame's 1986 Laetare Medal, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh announced recently. 
The medal is the University's highest honor and the oldest award given to American Catholics. 
In announcing the honor, Hesburgh noted that Carney, presi­dent of Metatech Corporation in Northbrook, Ill., has had almost every possible relationship with Notre Dame since he graduated from the University with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1937. 
"As a student, an alumnus, a parent of students, a benefactor, a counselor, a lecturer, a trustee and finally as chairman of the board, Tom Carney has consistently ex­emplified the qualities and values Notre Dame holds dearest," Hesburgh said. 
Following his graduation from Notre Dame, Carney earned master's and doctoral degrees in organic chemistry from Penn­sylvania State University and did post-doctoral work in medicinal chemistry at the University of Wisconsin. Before forming Metatech Corporation in 1976, he had spent more than 35 years in the pharmaceutical industry's research, development, planning, operations and administration. 
Carney's work at the Eli Lilly and G.D. Searle companies was in­strumental in the developme'nt of many of the drugs which have af­fected 20th century life, including a wide variety of antibiotics, an­tihistamines, barbituates, analgesics, cancer chemotherapies and anesthetics. At Metatech he is 
developing new instruments and devices for use in the medical field. 
see AWARD, page 4 


Author proposes plan for 'immoral' system's problems 

By ANN MARIE DURNING Therefore, he said, everyone Because welfare is demoralizing in each household receiving News Staff would be capitalists instead of the and unemployment demonstrates $100,000. This also would 
redistribute the nation's wealth, hepresent situation where only 6 per­that not enough jobs now exist, 
Internationally-known author cent of the nations' population owns Speiser proposed universal citizen said. and lawyer Stuart Speiser, speaking the means of production. ownership of corporate stock. The plab still needs to have many at the Center for Social Concerns Speiser, speaking before approx­According to Speiser, companies details worked out to become at­last night, presented a proposal to imately 20 people, criticized con­finance investments in equipment tractive to corporations and alleviate what he sees as the in­temporary economic policies. ''The from their internal funds, loans 
legislatures, he · said. For this and, to a lesser degree, by issuing 
justices of capitalism. cruelest thing is that the reason, the Council on Interna­
Republicans and Democrats have more stock, he said. 
Speiser, the final speaker of the tional and Public Affairs has an­
the same method of fighting infla-Speiser's program proposed that
Lenten series, Living the Challenge nounced a contest for essayists to 
tion -tocause recession. This is an legislation be passed to mandate
of Peace, also invited students to address the topic, "Devise a platf
immoral system when we need a that stock be sold to finance new in­
compete in an essay contest to for spreading ownership of 
moral system .... " vestJ1l,Cnts in means of production.
make his proposal more politically America's productive assets broad­
These new shares would be made 

appealing. To find a new route to social ly among the people, and reviving
justice, according to the author, available to 50 million lower class the economy, without confiscation 
His proposal, which he called the new methods of economic support families by the government or increased taxation." Universal Share Organization Plan must be made available to the guaranteeing their credit so they (USOP), would make all citizens of citizens. can purchase the stock, he said. The contest's prizes of $5,000, the United States and Great Britain The current methods of support According to Speiser, over a $2,500 and $1,000 are being 
Stuart Speiser stock owners. are wages and welfare, he said. period of 20 years this would result donated by Speiser. 

The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1986 -page 2 
Of Interest 
Stay in Shape! Dr. 1ames Fink will discuss how to gain and maintain good health by designing lifestyle of cardiovascular ·fitness at 7 tonight at the South Dining Hall. -The Observer. 
Freshmen are invited to meet their teachers tonight from 7 to 9 in the Lewis Hall Party Room. Provost Father Edward M'alloy and Associate Professor of economics Frank Bonello will speak about forming better teacher-student relationships. This meeting is sponsored by the Freshman Year of Studies and student government. Refreshments will be served.-The Observer. 
Richard Polenberg of Cornell University will deliver a lecture titled, "War and civil liberties in Twentieth-Century America" at the Galvin Life Science Auditorium tonight at 8. The lecture is sponsored by the history department and is free of charge. ,.. The Observer. 
"One God in Three Religions: Any Hope for 
Reconciliation?" will be the theme of a panel discussion to be held in Room 101 of the Law School tonight at 7. Panelists from the West Bank and Israel will represent Judaism, Islam and Catholicism. All are invited to attend. -The Observer. 
The Saint Mary's College department of justice education will present the film "For Export Only: Pesticides," and a discussion of the film by Joseph Miller, associate professor of psychology at Saint Mary's, today at 4:15 in Stapleton Lounge. The event is open to the public and free of charge. -The Observer. 
Two different menus will be offered attunchand din­ner today at the dining halls. Students will be offered a choice between average and optimum food selections as a part of the Choose for Health program.-The Observer. 
Certified Public Accountants from several area firms are joining Notre Dame students this year in preparation of income tax returns for families of low income and elderly citizens. The service at several neighborhood centers and South Bend and Mishawaka libraries is provided without charge and will be available until the filing deadline on April15.-The Observer. 
Regina Coli, C.S.J., director of Field Education, department of theology, Notre Dame, will discuss the book, "The Color Purple" by Alice Walker tomorrow at 12:15 in Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's. The presentation, sponsored by the Center for Spirituality, is open to the public and free of charge. -The Observer. 


Weather 
A tanning salon may stm be your best bet before break as it will be only partly sunny and cooler today. Highs in the mid 40s. A 30 percent chance of rain tonight with snow toward morning. Lows near 30. A 50 percent chance of rain tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 40s. -AP 


==Ihe=Observer-.. ..,-:-:-_ 

The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 

The O~rver ( t·sPS 'i99 l· -f000 l i~ puhh~hc:d '1onda\· throu!UJ l'rid;~\· c:xn·pt durinJ.: exam and vacauon period!. The Observer•~ published I>~ the: students of the: I m\·c:r'll\ of Notr~ Oam~ and Saint Mary·s Colle~e ~ubscription~ rna) bt purcha...ed lur S.~ll per yc:u ( S . .!O per !>Cm~stc:r) by wriling The Observer, P.O. Box(,). Notre Dame:. Indian;~ 
-46'i'i6 ~ ObKrver i.\ a mc:mbtr of The AS!Ioclakd Press. All rc:produt:liun ri!UJt~ arc: rev..,·ed. 

Root of marijuana problem stems from outlaw of forbidden weed 
The recent raids on student dorm rooms by Notre 
Dame Security and subsequent Observer articles about 
drugs on campus have prompted dismay on the part of 
many students. "I didn't know that kind of stuff went 
on here," has been a typical comment. 
But of course, "that kind of stuff" goes on here, and 
why shouldn't it? According to an August 1985 U.S. 
News and World Report article, the government 
estimates that more than one in 10 Americans use 
marijuana. Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are not 
quite so isolated as to be devoid of marijuana users. 
More serious drugs such as cocaine also can be found 
around campus, but marijuana probably is most 
prevalent. 
But the recent investigations of student rooms for evidence of drug use or selling bring into question the same old debate over making the use of marijuana legal. Although legalizing marijuana would be the best method of decreasing drug use in America, our country's historically conservative mind-set, which seems determined to force human nature to change for the better, as usual is the main obstacle blocking any constructive advancements in the eradication of drug problems in the United States. 
One obvious reason for legalizing marijuana, whose 1984 retail value as a homegrown crop the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws estimates at more than $16 billion, is the increased tax revenues. But in legalizing marijuana, the government would gain control over a much more crucial area than money in the fight against drug use. It would be in a position to influence drug users where it counts the most -in their very attitudes toward the use of drugs. 
If marijuana were legal, then the government would be able to regulate its quality and sell it much like a prescription drug, thus requiring that people wishing to purchase marijuana attend drug education seminars before theyweredlowed to buy the drug. In this way, users would be presented with information with which they could decide for themselves whether the health hazards of marijuana were severe enough to give up the drug. 
Last summer Attorney General Edwin Meese head­ed a nationwide raid on marijuana plantations, destroying less than one-fifth of the U.S. pot crop. With the great demand in this country, marijuana growers won't be idle long. They will find a way to supply the drug as long as there are profits to be made. Similarly, the United States has been putting pressure on Latin American countries to combat drug shipments from their countries to the U.S., but leaders of these countries rightly complain that the problem is rooted in Americans' desire to buy the drugs, not in the producers who are merely answering a demand. 

THE ANSWER IS 


vn11 
YOU 

HELP SAVE BABIES 
ANTJ-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS Center for Non-Violence Education seeking full-time staff. Lodging, $150/mo., & health coverage. Public interest research and publishing on aggression, developing courses on nonviolence and operating National ~lition on 'Ielevision Violence (~ films, war toys, sports, etc.). Next to University of Illinois. One year commitment with$1500 separation stipend. Student kans deferrable 217-384-1920. Resume to 1bomas Radecki, M.D., Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820. 
The Proof 
fain 
the Tastel 
()pea Mo..sat 11 aa 

s-4p• 
~ha-Salaa 
&er&Wine .77-2020 Load-.....,.,., .
,...,,.......... 


That's why tactics like Meese's are wrong. Americans have shown a historical tendency in trying to force certain ways of acting on their countrymen without regard to the subtleties of human behavior. Prohibition didn't work; people are going to drink despite any arbitrary man-made constraint such as a law. Many people do not view abortion as murder; women have had abortions when it was illegal and they still continue to do so. 
The point is that people are going to do what they're going to do. If someone is genuinely concerned with changing someone else's behavior for his betterment or the betterment of society, merely outlawing an ac­tion will only provoke stubborn resistance in those who feel that the right to make their own decisions is being taken away. Consequently, the best anyone can do to redirect someone else's habits is to make educa­tional information available and let others make their own choices. 
Current government policy of trying to clip the drug problem at the flower instead of the roots is typical of a more pervasive national attitude. Ultimately, a per­son is going to have to decide for himself how to con­duct his life. In trying to eliminate marijuana crops, Meese is refusing to face the problem in a practical manner. When will Americans see that the long-term answer to curbing drug use lies not in the elimination of the means but in the non-forcible remodeling of the desire? 


THE DEPARTMENT 
OF THEOlOGY INviTEs you TO coNsidER AMAjOR OR ASECONd MAjOR iN THEoloqy 
COME ANd TAlk iT OVER WiTH 
WILLIAM STOREY~ 
PRof. EMERiTus A fouNdER of THE MAjOR's PROGRAM 
LESLIE GRIFFIN~ 
UND 1978 (MAjOR iN THEoloqy) PH.D. YAlE~ Ass'T. PRof. of ETHics iN THE DEpARTMENT of THEoloqy 
TONIGHT TOO-8:00p.M. 
~41_0-'_S_HAUGHNESSV HAll 


The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1986 -page 3 


Tornadoes rake Midwest states, as many as five killed, 70 injured 
Associated Press residents to keep out of the city after high winds 
knocked out power to most of the city and ripped 
Tornadoes and winds up to 87 mph raked In­the roofs from dozens of buildings. diana, Kentucky and Ohio yesterday, killing at High winds "just wiped out" a trailer park on the least five people and injuring as many as 70, while west side of Indianapolis and caused heavy damage cutting electricity to thousands of people and to several businesses, said Marion County sherifrs destroying dozens of airplanes at Cincinnati's air­dispatch Tom Booher. port. In Hancock County, In., a man was crushed to 
"The wind started blowing and I felt the barn death when the barn in which he and his brother start to breathe," said Jerry Cragen, who escaped sought refuge from a storm collapsed under high injury when his main barn and five outbuildings winds, said sherifrs Sgt. Rick Johnson. were leveled near Martinsville, Ind. "It was pump­Near Evansville, Ind., a man died when struck ing like a lung and I just got underneath the tractor by a falling tree limb whiie working on a house, and I stayed there." police said. 
Approximately 40 people were injured in In Jasper Township, Ohio, a man was killed Newport, Falmouth and Erlanger, Ky., said state when a storm hit his trailer and three other family Trooper Jim Dolwick. Eight to nine injuries were members were injured, said Fayette County Sheriff reported in Lexington and Bromley, Ky., 18 in­Robert McArthur. juries were reported in southern Indiana, and four A man using a chain to hold a barn roof down in in Ohio. McLean County in western Kentucky died when the 
Strong winds ripped through a 10-to 12-block roof blew off, dragging him approximately 80 feet, section of Newport, Ky., causing heavy damage, said County Coroner John Muster. said Gordon Nichols, a spokesman for the state A woman was killed and her son injured when disaster and emergency services office. Streets were high winds, probably a tornado, flattened their blocked off and approximately 50 National Guard house trailer near New Concord, Ohio, said a members were called in, he said. Muskingum County Sheriff Bernie Gibson. 
Authorities in nearby Covington, Ky., which In far southern Indiana, what apparently was also is across the Ohio River from Cincinnati, one tornado hopscotched through Austin and Lit­declared a state of emergency and warned non-tle York, said state police Sgt. Paul Hedge. 
The Observer /Paul Pahoresky 
Gimmethat 
Library security guard Paul Mahoney checks the personal belongings ofa student last night. The library has become a popular site on campus this week and will continue to be a busy place up until the start of spring break next week as students prepare for midterms. 

EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT 

I •
tlae area's Higla Energy ClubI 
Doors open 8;30 pm. ON Showtime 9:30 pm

------------COUP -~-------­
ADMIT 4 STUDENTS FOR THE PRICE OF 21 ID required R!~:_~_!v12~~0_N~~·£C!_ __________!_~~~~ 
SPECIAL GUEST STAR THIS WEDNESDAY, 3/12186 
DENNIS BLAIR 
•HBO .Showtime 
-co-star with Rodney Dangerfield in "Easy Money" .Winner of Charlie Award -Best Male Comedian 


Information and materials for the May 1986 Commencement Exercises will be available in the Registrar's Office (215 Administration Building) from 8:30a.m. to 4:00p.m., March 12 through March 21. At that time you will be asked to proofread the way your name and hometown will appear in the commencement program and the way your name will appear on your diploma. You will also be asked to complete a survey of the 1986 graduating class. (This should take about 10 
minutes). 

If you intend to participate in the Commencement ceremony, you will be asked to complete a Commencement Ticket Request form. A maximun of (4) guest tickets will be made available to each graduate, 2 tickets (together) in the Lower Arena and 2 tickets (together) in the Upper Arena OR 4 tickets (together) in the Upper Arena. There is no guarantee that ticket requests received after March 21 will be honored. 
Ten (10) Commencement Announcements will also be available for you to pick up beginning March 12. Extra announcements will be available after March 21 at a cost of 10 cents each. 




No abortions or no support for school, says Cardinal 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York has threatened to drop its support of the New York Medical College unless two city hospitals affiliated with the school stop performing abortions, according to reports published yesterday. 
Cardinal John O'Connor, the ar­chbishop of New York, said in an interview with The New York Times that if Lincoln and Metropolitan hospitals did not stop performing abortions, the Valhalla-based college either would have to give upits$24 million a year contract to supply them with medical services or drop its ties with the archdiocese. 
The archdiocese saved the college from financial failure eight years ago. 
With more than 700 students, New York Medical College is the third largest private medical school in the country. It provides medical services to more than 35 hospitals in the metropolitan area, many of them Catholic insitutions, and was ranked as Westchester County's 24th largest employer in 1982. 
The chairman of the college's board of trustees, John Castle, declined comment on the cardinal's statement. 

Corrections 

Because of an editing error, Alvin Platinga was omitted from a list of professors who received a fellowship from the National En­dowment for the Humanities. Platinga is the John A. O'Brien professor ofphilosophy. 
Also, because of an editing error, Student Bod.y Presic!ent-elect Mike Switek's name was incorrect in yesterday's Inside column. 
In addition, because of an editing error, the incorrect dates were listed for health awareness week in a story about the week's events. The health awareness week began yesterday. 



Author claims feminism increases hardships for modem-day women 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Somewhere in the midst of marrying, having four children and a miscarriage, teaching college and working at a think tank, Sylvia Ann Hewlett decided feminism hadn't made life easier for the 1980s woman. 
So she added to her workload. She wrote a book. 
In "A Lesser Life: The Myth of Women's Liberation in America," Hewlett pleads the case of middle­aged women who are divorced and cast adrift without alimony, and of young women who are forced to juggle jobs and children. 
She blames the American social system for these problems, but she also blames an unlikely villain: the feminist movement of the 1960s and 1970s, which she says wasted effort on the Equal Rights Amend­ment and radical causes while giv­ing short shrift to day care and other family issues. 

Award 
continuedfrom page 1 
Carney, author of several articles and essays, has written three books. 
Carney has received several other honors at Notre Dame, including election as president of the national Alumni Association, membership in the Advisory Council for Science 
and  of  Engineering,  centennial  
awards  from  the  Colleges  of  
Science  and  Engineering,  and  


Mary Elizabeth and Thomas Carney 
honorary doctor of law degree awarded in 1969, the Alumni Association's Sorin Award, and designation as the Nieuwland Lec­turer at the University. 
A member of Notre Dame's Board 
of Trustees since the establishment 
of that body in 1967, Carney was 
elected chairman in 1982. 
Carney married Mary Elizabeth 
McGuire on Oct. 3, 1942. They 
have four children, Thomas Jr., 
Sheila, James and Janet, all of 
whom have graduated from Notre 
Dame. Mrs. Carney is a native of 
Brazil, Ind., and grew up in in­
dianapolis. She has been active in 
the League of Women Voters and 
has served as president of the Lake 
Forest and Lake County units. 
She has been a member of the 
lake Forest Caucus and serves on 
the board of the Gorton Communi­
ty Center. Mrs. Carney has, with 
her husband, served as hostesss to a 
wide variety of official functions at 
the University over many years. 
"She has been Notre Dame's first 
lady for the past four years." said 
Hesburgh. 
The Laetare Medal is so named 
because it recipient is announced 
each year on Laetare Sunday, the 
fourth Sunday of Lent in the 
Church calendar. Established in 
1883, the medal was conceived as 
an American version of the 
"Golden Rose," an ancient papal 
honor. 
Only three other couples are among the 108 men and women who have received the Laetare Medal. 
Hewlett claims to be a feminist, but acknowledges many women's leaders have been "quite hostile toward the book," published by William Morrow. 
Ms. magazine editor Robin Morgan, for example, panned Hewlett's ''tediously familiar right­wing anti-feminist accusations... Hewlett's premise -that the U.S. movement is 'anti-motherhood'-is true in terms of fabricated media image but false in terms of reality." 
But Hewlett notes the case of a California woman who tried un­successfully to return to her bank job 25 months after giving birth. The woman has sued; opposing her suit are the bank · and the National Organization for Women, which argues that women should not receive special treatment. 
"Does NOW realize that women, are not men? It is true, only women can have babies; it is both the privilege and the responsibility of the female sex," Hewlett writes. 
Philadelphia Club Spring Bus Sign -ups 

LaFortune Tuesday, March 11 8PM 
···············································~ 
.----University of Notre Dame college of-----. Business Administration 
The O'NeU Lecture Series 
SPEAKER: 
Dr. Joseph W. McGuire, Professor of Management, Graduate School of Management, University of California, Irvine 
TOPIC: 

"The Ethics of Conflict Resolution" 
DATE: Thursday, March 13, 1986 
TIME & PLACE: 
12:15 P.M., Faculty Seminar Board Room 
' 

Hayes-Healy Building 
all members ofthe University ofNotre Dame Faculty are invited. 
•4:15 P.M., Lecture and Discussion Hayes-Healy Auditorium (room 122) 
,..acuity, Students, and the Public are invited. 
Dr. Joseph W. McGuire 
Professor McGuire was formerly Vice President--Planning of the University of CalHomia Statewide System, Dean of the College of Commerce and Business Administration, University of Illinois, Urbana, and Dean of the School of Business, the University of Kansas, Lawrence. 
"To ignore this biological dif­ference, as many American feminists chose to do, is to commit a double folly." 
Children are victimized, she says. Ifa mother stays home because of a lack of affordable day care, the family's circumstances suffer; more often, both parents are forced to work, and the children are passed along a network of babysitters, friends and grandparents. 
The livlihoods of women also suffer, according to Hewlett. 
Ninety percent of women have children during their lifetimes, but more than 60 percent of those who work have no maternity leave; most have to leave the work force for some period after they give birth, often stunting careers that had just begun to flower, she says. 
She cites statistics indicating the gap between the earnings of men and women can be pinned to family responsibilities . 
The Arts & LeHers Advlsorv Council presents 
MEET YOUR MAJOR  
4:30-5:30  PSYCHOLOGY  200 Haggar Hall  
4:30-5:30  COMMUNICATIONS/THEATER  O'Shag Loft  
5:00-6:00  ART  127 O'Shaughnessy  
6:00-7:00  EDUCATION  210 O'Shaugnessy  
7:0Q-8:00  PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES  Grace Hall Pit  
Everyone welcome to attend.  

THE OBSERVER BUSINESS DEPARTMENT 
is accepting applications for the following positions 
.Accounts Receivable Clerk 
•Accounts Payable Clerk .Payroll Clerk 
Sophomore Accounting Majors preferred 
Questions should be directed to Eric Scheuermann at The Observer office. Personal statements and resumes are due Thursday, March 13 at 5:00pm. 
. . . >: ~'~~·.the COrriei-.Club presents 
•

Dtickets in Officeof Student 
Affairs -$3~1f1f 


The Observer Tuesday, March 11 , 1986 -page 5 


•Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsol 
•Ameroc;~n Hydron 
•Aosort 
•Bausch & Lomb •Crbasott •Durasolt 
$41.93,., 
• Tinted lens•• 
• 
Bausch &Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Clbasol! Colors 


'63.97 pair 
"b~W..L­
•AOSotrcon $57/pr 
•Bau\cn &lomb $45/pr 
•Coor,ierVrsron 
Perrna1ens $67 t pr •CSIT $971 pr • Dura soft 3 $571 ~<'' 
•Genes•s 4 ~'i'i/ or 
•Hydrocurvc 175/pr. 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 


r-------:------.,
I ·I I ~·-------I
I n ... , 1>-~£11" I I I
J ptrau !W'Ild mil' • copo,· uf m~tl.al•!ol 'liofl toniKI 1 lrnt. pr~npnon ~•uo ( urnpholr rh~ •Ad m•d il 1I '" ~·)(•n ., ~~~rbl,. Tt••nl.. vov Wf\1 mUC"h 
I
I -------------------­
~~·~n•••gn .. r~or• I
I 
l 
,I e •••• 
Pow" I R I L I 
I
Rll .. mrl.-r uz 
Color 1 
l I • •l••"-' IN::-" I
I f.JIIf'nd.>dwf'•, 
I I 
--------------------I
1 fttt_,,·, ~+gnarurr 1 
L.--------------· 
All leans guar111tttd first qualily, 111d art upphtd rn lht .,,,,_,, lacle•y 
!!ll!f ""' 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
, Acou ,., yo~.' t()f'Tlp·e'Et co,tac' '£t~"'~~ oreso.pr.or 
'2 Como•e1e tne oroer oc··o.,.. 
J MaMe cnec~~~ rnonPy Ofiler or corroete creo11 caro .ntorma~or. paya­o•e 10 CL S •nc 
4 Enc.•ose ~ame aooress & phOne 
1"'\ur"'"t)er Wlfl"'' Q1(1el 
5 Ma•· ,al' 1nfOtr"'idhOn IO 
Contact Lens SuppiJ, Inc. 30650 Carter Rei. Onet.ncl, Ohio 44139 216/241·2416 
Contact Lens Suppliers lor 25 years ·· 
,........... _____ ,...... 
en1y --·-• pllir. UNO 
.,............ 
•s..,...,.._..._2_.o_o_ 
.,.... 
lllneuclosecltoe.l 
,.YIMIIf in ftM ........ 
........: 
dledr 
VISA 

!Per~l Ctrecks musl be clea•ed f)fror 10 sntpmenlt 
-..--------­
~----~------­
-
................,....... 
•w. ........"&IC';,tieM .. file
........... 
........... .........-..·­
........., _,....., te M .-,Hill 2411ews. 



Shuttle 
continuedfrom page I 
astronauts were burned to death, poisoned by fumes, died from sud­dent loss cabin pressure, were killed by flying debris or by impact with the water, or drowned. 
Exact cause of death might be difficult because the bodies have been in the water for six weeks and may have been the victims of sea scavengers. 
Those killed in the accident were commander Richard Scobee, pilot Michael Smith, Judith Resnik, Ellison Onizuka, Ronald McNair, Gregory Jarvis and Christa McAuliffe, a New Hampshire schoolteacher who was flying as NASA's first "ordinary citizen" in space. 
The sources also reported several of the crew members' private ef­fects had been recovered, including personal tape recorders on which they had planned to record their impression of the flight. 
The crew cabin is a 2,525-cubic­foot, three-level structure made of 2,219 aluminum alloy plates welded together to create a pressure-tight vesset. It has no special rein­forcements to better withstand the force of an explosion, but it is stronger than much of the fuselage because it is a single welded unit. 

How you Jive may save your life. 
To the man ofmy dreams, 
Fred Astairel 
Thanks for a great weekend! 
I LOVE YOV-MEG 



NO alumnus to discuss minority issues today 
ByJOEMARXEY 
StaffReporter 

Percy A. Pierre, 1961 graduate of Notre Dame and president of Prarie View A & M University since 1983, will discuss South African apartheid and minority issues on campus today. 
Pierre, who will speak at 4 
p.m. at the Hayes-Healy Auditorium, also will discuss his career in education, govern­ment, and engineering since his graduation from Notre Dame. 
Pierre, whose presentation is titled "Issues in Higher Educa­tion," is speaking as part of the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series. 
With more than 20 years of experience in engineering educa­tion and research, university and government administration, and technical and policy ad­ministration, Pierre's lecture should prove to be interesting and thought provoking, accor­ding to Ed Lenard, Student-Alumni Relations Group 
(SARG) member and organizer 
of the series. 
According to Lenard, the idea for the Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series "developed last year when we were thinking of activities that SARG and stu­dent government could combine efforts in." 

The lecture series was adopted with the intention of bringing noted alumni in contact with students, he said. "There are so many prominent alumni out i 
.,
there," said Lenard. "The alum­

I
ni are very helpful and en­.. 
.. 
I
thusiastic about the series, 

"1
generally because they like to come back and share with the students," he added. 
Dr. Pierre, who is known for his influence in shaping the future of engineering education, has kept in close contact with Notre Dame, Lenard said. Pierre is a former member of Notre Dame's faculty and serves on the Board of Trustees. 

Make anew plan, Stan. 
l~LI\l week mu missed mur Future P.Jncreas Specialist~ sn1dy group. Yesterday mu missed the ~l'lla Kraka Towa frats annual "Java n Sud'l lh'lh... And tmla~· you missed the deadiine on \'our thesis. "Deaf Lemon Sch\\'artzberg: TI1e ~1an. nie ~~~1h. The Legend... 
This is exactlr \Vh\· rou should consider a ~lacintosh™ · · · \\"ith pro:.,'Tams like MacProject~M ~'ou can keep track of all your school projects and activities. Because 
MacProject a!lov.'S you to arrange and organize your life right on tl1e Macintosh screen.And should vou have to drop aclass or miss a deadline. it'll help you-reorgan­ize hy automatically recalculating your entire schedule. 
Another example of how ~lac intosh helps sn1dent'l work smarter. quicker and more creatively And the heautY of Macintosh is. vou don ·t have to know diddley ahout computers to use one. 
So get a ~lac,Jack. 

New low-pricing on all Macintosh microcomputers Orders now being taken for upgrades 
University of Notre Dame Faculty, staff and students can buy Macintosh computers at discounted prices from the Notre Dame Computer Store. 
For further information, inquire : the Computing Center, Room 25, 9:00 -5:00 M-F. Phone 239-7 477 





Accent 

e
r1n 


i 

rea
! 


( 
! . ! SAB offers students 
I • • 
r 
an Inexpensive way
~ 
I; to enjoy spring break
(. 
( 
MARILYN BENCHIK 
features .writer 
Imagine a serene, tropical sunset, , or gliding down a mountain full of fresh fallen snow. These visions of
r 
spring vacations offer a reprievet 
r· 
for students during the bleak In­diana winter. 
There are three spring break trips that the Student Activities Board is planning right now. One excursion includes Breckenridge, Colo., which is currently filled with the maximum of 32 people, according to representative for the SErvices Commission, Don Dickinson. 
The other two trips include Daytona Beach and Fort Lauder­dale. 
"The ski trip runs at $249 and this includes lodging and lift tickets to Copper Mountain, Araphoe Basin, and Keystone," commented Dickinson. Each of these areas are at most 25 minutes from Vale,a dn the shuttle service is provided in the cost of the total ticket price. 
The only major setback to think of is that transportation is not in­cluded in the package. "Really that's no problem because Greyhound is running a special for college students during their respec­tive breaks. It only costs $99 to get there by bus," added Dickinson. 
"As far as making a profit is con­cerned, we recouped our in­vestments which means we broke even. That's no problem because we're a non-profit organization," Dickinson added. 
At this time, the Daytona and Fort Lauderdale trips have 45 and 30 vacationers scheduled respec­tively. According to Dickinson about 100 people will ultimately go to Daytona while the total for Fort Lauderdale will reach approx­imately 180. 
"It's such a headache for us because the majority of the people will wait until the last minute before deciding whether or not they want to go. This year the deadline for each of these trips is Feb. 28," said Dickinson. 
The Daytona trip is $129 if the student drives, and $209 if he or she decided to take the round trip bus. The Fort Lauderdale trip is $225 without the bus and $309 with it. 
"Personally I think that Fort Lauderdale is overrated. Daytona is more economical and in Daytone there is 23 miles of beach whereas in Fort Lauderdale there is only three miles," commented Dickin­son.· 
Dickinson added that the Car­riage House Hotel, where the Daytona tourists will be lodged, is right in the center of the 23 mile long strip. Every other day students have the opportunity to visit Disney World. Fishing excursions are also being planned in and around Orlando. 
"We have the opportunity to run more activities with the Lauderdale group because the Alumni support is greater there," said Dickinson. This group will lodge at the Riviera, which is on the beach. 
In addition to Easter Week ser­vices, there will be a bike tour of the Everglades, and a notre Dame and Saint Mary's party on the hotel grounds or at Penrods. An Inter­Costal cruise is also scheduled, ac­cording to Dickinson. 
"The advantages of the SAB trip as opposed to traveling through a travel agency are that the prices of these trips are cheaper than most agencies. You know what the hotel and the arrangements are months in advance, and you are with peo­ple from the same school," added Dickinson. 
Gloria Eleuteri, a junior at Saint Mary's won a trip to Daytona last year. "I had a great time. I found everything to be really up to par as far as accomodations were con­cerned!' Chris Fortin, another Saint Mary's junior summed up her sentiments with, "If I ever get the chance to go to Daytona again, baby I'm there!" 
Steve Morita, a Notre Dame 
sophomore, who went on the Fort 
Lauderdale trip last year had this to 
say. "I really had a great time. The 
hotel wasn't the most luxurious int 
he world, but then I didn't go to 
Florida to sleep,." 
Ann DuCharme, a senior at 
Notre Dame offered an opposing 
view. "I didn't go to Lauderdale on 
the same trip as everyone else, but I 
visited the hotel where some of my 
friends were on the SAB trip. It was 
really gross; there was beer, it 
wasn't comfortable, and there were 
people all over the ~~...,..,..--=­



New drinking age 
won't hinder fun in Florida 
SHEILA McDANIEL 
features writer 

With spring break less than two weeks away, it's time to start pack­ing those shorts and shades. But if you're going to Florida, don't forget your "21" ID. 
In response to threats from the federal government to cut highway funds by 10 percent, Florida, like most other states, has raised its legal drinking age to 21. However, Florid2 is phasing in the law over a two-year span. In other words, if your 19th birthday was before July 1, 1985, you will not be subject to the law this spring break. 
This exemption clause does not just apply to Florida residents; if you will be be an out-of-state visitor to the Sunshine State's beaches and bars, you also qualify for the exemption. 
For those not included in the "grandfather clause,, don't despair. Daytona Beach has not forgotten you. This renowned spr­ing break party city is hosting the first annual National Collegiate Sports Festival -four weeks of 

Questions should be directed to Mary Jacoby at the 

Theindependentstudentnewspape~ 
serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant Features Editor 

• 
Features Copy Editor 


athletic competition involving students from the entire United States. According to NCSF's direc­tor of events, Mike May, this tour­nament is an important attempt to change the image of spring break in Daytona Beach. 
The sports wants to capitalize on the national trend toward fitness, May said. "We're not purists," he added, "But there are other fun things to do in Daytona Beach besides the beach and the beer." 
Non-alcohol and non-tobacco­related organizations will sponsor competition in nine sports: basket­ball, flag football, golf, rugby, run­ning, sailing, softball, ultimate frisbee, and volleyball. All events will take place either on the beach or within a 10-minute car or public transportation ride from it. 
"Daytona Beach is trying to establish itself as a 'sports capital,' " 
said May. "Here's a chance for the average studP.nt, who's a pretty good athlete, to challenge other universities in a national competi­tion. Here's the one place ­
Observer  office  (239-5313).  
Resumes  and  personal  
statements  are  due Thursday,  
March 13.  

The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Daytona Beach." 

The NCSF will take place from March I 0 to April 4, typically the most concentrated weeks of spring break. Since Notre Dame's break falls during the third week, Domers can challenge schools like Santa Clara (Calif.), the universities of Florida, Wisconsin and Tennessee, Virginia Tech, Brown, Cornell, Harvard, Kent State, Ohio State, Ohio University, Bowling Green, and even Slippery Rock State University (Penn.). 
Winners of the weekly competi­tions will return to Florida for the NCSF Championships. The final contest will be held either April 5 and 6, early June or early September. 
For all those Florida sun seekers and sports enthusiasts under 21 or over, Daytona Beach is providing an opportunity for fun in the sun and a chance to be a national sports champion. Those interested in com­peting in the NCSF should call 8­800-244-NCSF for more informa­tion. 

Special to The Observer 
Spring Break vacationers who couldn't decide whether to go to a snow-covered mountain ski resort or to a sunny beach will have the opportunity to do both when Busch CitySki brings "snow" skiing to Miami Beach and Daytona Beach during the last two weeks of Mar­ch. 
They'll be able to experience the thrill of snow skiing without leav­ing the Sunshine State, or even straying far from the warm sand and surf, when areas in Daytona Beach and Miami Beach are transformed into "Busch Moun­tain" ski slopes for Busch CitySki. 
Hundreds of tons of crushed ice will be used to build slopes in Miami Beach on March 18 and 19, and in Daytona Beach on March 25, 26, and 27. 
Busch CitySki features open ski­ing for the public, the use of equip­ment and professional instruction-­all provided free of charge com­pliments of Busch beer and the cities of Daytona Beach and Miami Beach. 
Skiing equipment (or both events will be provided by the Killington Mountain ski area in Vermont. 
The Busch CitySki series was developed in 1984 by World Sports Promotions, Inc., based in Man­chester Village, Vt. Busch CitySki began with events in downtown Boston and Albany, N.y. Those successes mspired return engagements and an expanded 1985-86 tour with events in Atlan­ta, Chicago, Rochester, St. Louis, Columbus, and now Daytona Beach and Miami Beach. 
The Busch CitySki slopes in Daytona Beach and Miami Beach will be constructed with shaved ice. The ice will be delivered in the form of 300-pound blocks and then shav­ed and crushed and turned into "Busch Mountain" by snowmaking experts from World Sports Promo­tions. The Miami Beach event will be held on the public beach near the intersection of Ocean Drive and 14th Court. In1 Daytona Beach, the event will be held on a site close to the beach near the 700 block of Atlantic Boulevard. 

Tuesday, March 11 , 1986 -page 6 -7 
Florida isn't the only place to spend break 
LISA YOUNG 
Features senior staff 
Aaaaah . . . Spring Break. 
Thoughts of Daytona Beach and 
Fort Lauderdale come to mind. 
Thousands of college students flock to Florida every year. But you want to be different don't you? You're not a crowd follower. 
Can't imagine break without a beach? Try Myrtle Beach or the South Pares. Need to see a big city again? Boston could prove an ex­citing vacation. Some suggestions follow for planning a slightly out of the ordinary break. Whichever you chose, plan early. And of course, have fun. 
South Padre Island, Tex. 
Located just off the southeast coast 
of Texas, this 110 mile long island 
is the longest isle in the U.S. Stret­
ching from Corpus Christi to Port 
Isabel, it is hailed by travel 
brochures as a "top coastal vaca­
tion spot." Spring temperatures are 
usually in the 70s-80s. 
Miles of sunny beaches are the 
main attraction, but Padre offers 
much, much more. Options for 
daytime fun include deep sea 
fishing and excursions to Mexico. 
Mexico is within an hour's drive. 
Here you'll find inexpensive liquor 
and other goods. 
Remember, however, that it is il­
legal to transport alcohol across the 
border. Island Sailboat Rentals of­
fer charters for $12-25 an hour. A 
beach travel tip: leave your metal 
detector at home. They became il­
legal after a team of treasure 
trackers discovered lost treasure 
worth $3 million. For those of you 
who are reptile fanatics, you might 
want to visit Port Isabel, home of a 
private collection of giant sea 
turtles. 
Nightime fun shouldn't be hard to finj:the Texas drinking age is still 
19. Students also find it amusing that alcoholic beverages are legal in moving automobiles. 
Flights to the Padres are current­ly running about $200, depending on airline, time of departure, and time of reservation. Air time is ap­proximately four hours. Airports are located in Brownsville and Cor­pus Christi, and limousine service runs to South Padre. If you choose to drive, it will probably take about a day. 
Hotels, motels and condos are available in about every price range. Popular among ND students are the Yacht Club Hotel ($38-58 a night) and the Tiki Condominiums ($60-70 a night). 
Myrtle Beach, S.C. 
Myrtle Beach is the focal point of the Grand Strand, a 55-mile strip of beach. It is called both the "Sun Fun Capital" and the "Camping Capital of the World." 

The average high temperatures for March to May are in the 70s, accompanied by plenty of sun­shine. 
The city ·is an endless strip of amusement parks, wild animal kingdoms, and miniature golf courses. There are also 26 prestigious gold courses within a half hour of the city. 
Nightlife closely resembles the Lauderdale scene. Bars, nightclubs, and motel parties abound. The drinking age used to be 18 for beer and wine, but legislation has been pushing it back yearly until it reaches 21. 
Flights to Myrtle Beach are ap­proximately $158, again depending on various factors. South Bend to Myrtle Beach driving time is about 14 hours, considerably shorter than even Dayton. 
Bring your tent and build camp­fires at one of the many cam­pgrounds in the "Camping Capital of the World." If you're not quite so outdoorsy, lodgings range from the Econo Lodge ($16 a night) to the Arcadian Condos (2 bedroom, $480 a week). 
Boston, Mass. 

If a tan isn't your main concern, and you don't mind Haaahvaaad accents, spring break in Boston of­fers as much excitement as any tropical paradise. Boston has enough sight s to keep vacationers busy for months. 
Being college students on break, the first thing you'll want to do is v1s1t other college campuses. Boston University, Boston College, Harvard, MIT, Stonehill College, and Holy Cross are among the many nearby colleges. Visit old friends, or make some new. Who knows, maybe you'll acquire some free accomodations. 
Boston contains plenty of history, if you're so inclined to spend your break. Spring temps average in the 60s, perfect for sightseeing. Boston, as a cultural center, offers a Chinatown, museums, aquariums, theater, and music opportunities. 
Shoppers should definitely visit Quincy Market, an 18th century dock building converted into mall. It is also hailed as the ...,.1,tPrr of the city's nightlife. Massachusetts drinking age is 21). Especially recommended is Houlihan's. Other recommenda­tions include Jack's and the Oxford Ale House, for mingling with the Ivy League type. TV buffs might want to visit Cheers; it seems that the outside is much more authentic than the inside. No Names is a seafood restaurant with an unusual twist. You are requested to bring your own beverages. Understandably, there is often a wait to get it. 
Tennis burrs may want to catch the Virginia Slims of Roston Tennis Championships held at Boston University near the end of March. 
Flights to Boston are about $250 (a comparison price) and take under two hours. Driving time between the Dome and Boston is about 17 hours. 
As these alternatives suggest, sometimes the most fun isn't found in following the crowd. 
The Obserwr Tuesday, March 11, 1986 -page 8 


"\ I 
\ 
\ 
\ 
' 
l 
l
\ 

The ND Judo club took two first-place finishes and two second-place finishes in individual competitions in the Chicago Judo Black Belt Association this weekend in Chicago. One highlight of the competition was Scotty Gervais' victory in the 280-pound-plus Men's Superheavyweight br·own belt division. 
The Observer 
The ND Women's Soccer Club wm hold an organizational meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Breen-Phillips basement. All players should attend. For more information call Beth Haverkamp at 283-1458. -The Observer 
The ND Water Polo Club will be the topic of discussion tonight on "Speaking of Sports" at lO p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Listeners may join hosts Chuck Freeby, Rudy Brandl, and Frank Mastro by calling in their questions and comments at 239­6400. -The Observer 
An interhall baseball tournament is being organized by NV A. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. Rosters must include at least 14 players and should be turned in with a $15 team entry fee. For more informa­tion call NVA. -The Observer 
Twelve-inch softball tourneys for men, women, and graduate departments are being organized by NV A. Interested teams should sign up at the NV A office in the ACC by tomorrow. Rosters must include between 12 and 16 players. In the men's and women's divisions, players must all represent one hall. In the graduate division, teams must be composed by department. For more information call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC golf team will practice tomorrow at 3 p.m. outdoors. Late arrivals are welcome. For more information call Laura Gleason at 283-3351. -The Observer 
Men's and women's soccer tourneys are be­ing organized by NVA. Interested teams should sign up at the NVA office in the ACC by tomorrow. The women's division will be an interhall competition and a $25 team entry fee is required. The men's division will be an open tourney but the field is limited to the first 32 teams that enter. Entry fee for the men is $10 per team. For more information call NV A. -The Observer 
The NO men's varsity crew team will hold a practice tomorrow at 5:30p.m. at the ACC. There also will be a mandatory meeting Thursday in Nieuwland Science Hall following the general team meeting. For more information call Chris Nye at 236-4400. -The Observer 
A SK Heart Lights Race will be held Thursday at 3:30p.m. starting in front of the South Dining Hall and winding up at the North Dining Hall. Anyone interested may register in ad­vance at the dining halls, although entries will be accepted at the race until 2:45 p.m. For more information call Suzanne Farnia at 239-7254. -The Observer 
Bengal Bouts sweats and shirts must be picked up by fighters by Friday at Holy Cross Hall, Room 319. Anything not picked up by this deadline will be sold. Donations for coaches' gifts also should be sent to Kevin O'Shea at the above address by the deadline. For more information call Ed Kelly at 234-7083. The Observer 
An Tostal co-ed innertube water polo sign­ups will be held the week before spring break. Teams must field seven players at a time, two of which must be females. Teams may have a maximum of two current ND water polo team members or two varsity swimmers. For more information call Mike Roberts at 272-3971. -The Observer 
Grace 
continued/rom page 12 

away any scoring opportunities. 
Williams took a breakaway to the open net at l :09 and recovered his own rebound to seal the victory for Grace, which was runner-up for the previous three years. 
"We skated seven defensemen and all played well, most teams can only skate four," said Marino. 
"Coming off of a history of close defeats, it felt good to go out know­ing that we were best, and then pro­ving it," said Elliott. 
"We wanted it more, and the defense clicked," said McBride after playing his last and best game as a Grace player. 
"It was a team effort, and everyone deserved it," said Demp­sey. "The turning point for us was when Huberty got the third goal." 
Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 


Unitedway 

Any men interested in,experiencing 
ing for your coat or have mine please But you're 21, grown up now You've
life in a Benedictir'!e ~onastery in II· 
call Kevin at 283-2113. made it through it all somehow With
linois during Spnnlj Break contact Br. FOR SALE THE PITISBURGH CLUB-SPRING painted wings, you've been set free
Mark OSB ~!l-6167. d.c. spring break bus Cost $70,
BREAK BUS Lavender, yes, but how "bout at three Signups Mon. 3110 from 6-7 pm inSignups: 6-7 pm Thur. Mar. 13
HELP! MEN'S GOLD CHAIN MISS· IS IT TRUE YOU CAN BUY JEEPS Luv you. 
LaFortune lobby. ?"s call Kevinat Little Theatre LaFortune 
lNG. FOR $44 THROUGH THE U.S. 
Virostek at 1062

LONG ISLAND CLUB BUS Leaves: 4 pm Fri Mar 21 CCE & Holy
TAKEN FROM 205 CARROLL GOVERNMENT? GET THE FACTS
LEAVING MARCH 21 Cross
NIGHT OF MAR. 1 PARTY TODAY! Call 1·312·742·1142 Ext.
RETURNING APRIL 1 Returns: 1 pm Tues Apr 1 Gryhnd
PERSONALLY VALUABLE 7316. BUFFALO BUS SIGNUPS WED. 3112
RD. TRIP$770NEWAY$50 Term.
NO QUESTIONS ASKED 6-7 PM & THUR.3113 6-7:30PM IN
SIGNUPS IN LAFORTUNE LOBBY 4-6 ! !! ! !!!! !!!!! ! ! ! ! ! !! !
$$ REWARD$$ 4051 LAFORTUNE. So long and thanks for all the fish, St. 
PM ON FRI. MARCH 14 ANYONE INTERESTED IN BEING AN
1978 SUZUKI GS550 CAFE STYLE JudeI
OFFICER FOR NEXT YEAR, PLEASE
LO Ml, EXCEL COND. Word processing-Typl ng LOST, PRESUMABLY STOLEN: My CALL268-4650 ATIEND 
272-8827 QUESTIONS: call A.J. x1844
wallet from the Rock on Sunday after­NOTRE DAME TO QUITE POSSIBLY THE FINESTnoon, I'd really like all my IDs back ARE YOU READY FOR ST.

DATE A GUY COULD HAVE FOR HIS
Typing availaDit! before break, hope you spent the $2 PATRICK'S DAY? THE ST. PATRICK'S
MIKE FARNAN -Thanks for the SEMI·F THANX FOR A GREAT TIME
287-4082 well. Cali Greg at 232-8875 or give it DAY WEEKEND CELEBRATION IS
PERSONALS great scam last weekend. Wish It ANN, YOU'RE THE TOPS, KID! LOVEto 106t & found. 
COMING MARCH 14·17. GO IRISH!!!!
could have been as good for me as it YA,DJTYPING was for you. Good luck in your future CALL CHRIS 
PREGNANT? 

exploits!! Love, last week's woman. NEED HELP? FARLEY GIRLS ALWAYS SWEEP 'EM OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR.
234-8887 LOST: black TIMEX digital watch. 
Please call Bill1812 

Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline, Hi DOUG! OFF THEIR FEET!! CONGRA TULA­CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. N., 1 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL counseling & free pregnancy tests. T/ONS to the Farley!Sorin tugo' war BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. LOST: GOLD ROPE CHAIN WOMEN'S CARE CENTER team!! 
ATTN: STUDENTS 
BRACELET!!!! LOST BETWEEN (OR Dolores Francis typing service IN) B.P. AND NORTH DINING HALL. It started with Elvis Costello (Tina's MISSING -TWO PAPERS FROM phone number change PLEASE TELL ME YOU'VE FOUND hip), jelly beans, and booze · Anne SMC ENGLISH DEPT, NEED FOR 
IT!! CALL AT Need ride to Cols. OH for Sp Break. I b~at Kris Pantelleria in racquetball GRADUATION! PLEASE RETURN TO
277-8131 STEPHANIE 1327. wore (surprise!) purple · Pat smiled · 
Kent 272·2064 15-4, 15·7. Pick on someone your own
THANKS! we did the cultural thing at The 136 LEMANS ASAP!! 
age next time·· DaveTempest (Bill loved it) -Pat and lan
TYPING -Fast, High-Quality. Cali ReaiCPAs
took off to a run-in with campus cops, 
287-9257 M.H.B.T.D. --MJ
FOUND: 3110 in Concepts of Mod. but got back in high time for Act II -Don't take breeks! 
LIFE BEGINS: 
Sci. class: pair of tan suede gloves. nice high school happy hour. Pete, ············ ....... ············· 
MAY 9 AT 5:00P.M.
Too small for me! Call Rob at 1201 to nice tie too (you're beat)-Everclear?? 
li't(t""-.PHII,.LY PHILL Y -Phi lly Spr­
Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for 
claim. . .. rock and roll ... To the asexual
Spring Break. Will share usual. Call ing BiiS·.'S~Q_nups Tues. Mar 11· Lafor­Applications lor manager positions
snow angels in Farley and the rest of 
Lorri at 284·5315 tune 8pm • ?seiti·Oave G. 3270 Found: pearl bracelet on Eddy St.
Duffy's class, the English major says of 
•.. · ·:.. ·.: ''! 'J' ••• Saturday night. Call to claim 284·4138 The Cellar
PLEASE RETURN MY UNIVOX mysteriously, '"Let"s do it again!!!'" (WALKMAN) TO 718 ST. LOUIS AND are available now at tr.e record sotre
VOCALIST NEEDED by tf~ waiting
ALL IS FORGIVEN in the LaFortune basement. The 
to perform. Please call Kevirf:ti l('\5) or 
Chicago Travel party! Friday March
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!! forms are due in the Student Govern­
LOST/FOUND I 
Matt (2303). 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! 14 Knights of Columbus 815 N. ment offices by 5:00 this Thursday. Michigan St. 9pm·2am WIN· Chauf·
OK. WHOEVER STOLE MY GREY STEPHANIE LYDON fered Limo from Chicago Palmer
OVERCOAI FROM 801 ST. LOUIS ST. Stephanie Lydon (who loves beer) is
MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT MCAT 
House(Sat. night), 15 percent off
ON 2114 I WANT IT BACK; SPRING celebrating her 21st birthday!! Come TRACK & FIELD Univ. of Notre uame
FOR RENT PREPARATION MATERIALS Willing Steakhouse Dinner, Free Brunch Sun. 
ISN'T HERE YET AND I'M COLD! A join the fun at Chi-Chis and Bridgets! Track & Field Team T·Shirts and Grey 
to sell my KAPLAN Review Materials 
$77 spending money. Sponsored by
REWARD IS OFFERED. CALL BRIAN She really knows how to party so befrom last year for $50 or best offer. Sweat Tops for Sale. A very LIMITED
SMC STudent Nurses' Assoc. 

AT 2209. prepared to party all night! Love, Us Supply. Perfect for Spring Break.
x3731 

.. ········ .,_ ................... . P.S. Daytona rocks! Prices:$8 for T·Shirts and $15 for FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO 
Sweat Tops. Call Tom for information NEW NEW NEWLOST: Pair of blue leather gloves. If FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 287-6389. 
JIM At the very least, I am flattered in­Modem English 277-7006 or 239-7634. 
you remember finding a pair of gloves deed! 
Just released!
on Fri. Feb. 14, or around then. AMNESTY INERNATIONAL meeting
though quite undeservedly Only6.98
(probably in CompiMath 300, N.S.H. Semi-furnished house in good 6:30 pm CSC Seminar rm 1
But I am also taken .. by another Jim, The Cellar, LaFortune basement SMC OFF-CAMPUS SYR! BE THERE!
123, O'Shag 105A or Eng. Aud) please neighborhood 255-3664/277·3604 no less. So sorry. Jennifer call Frank x1578. 
WAZ-Congrats on a great victory in
AMERICA'S No. 1 CITY • PITI· BOSTON BOUND FOR SPRING
the Bengal Bouts! 
SBURGH BREAK
THURSDAY NIGHT CLUB ON CORBY
LOST: My big Sears (wow!) 2 Girls seeking rides for spring break. NEED A RIDE? radio/cassette player in Riley art WANTED Has been moved to Sat. for a ST. 
Plese call Lisa 2695. OR GOING THRU ALBANY, building. I could have sworn I put it in PADDIES DAY BASH starting at 10:30 
SYRACUSE, ROCHESTER, BUFFALO my locker. but if you found it in the mornihg. OR ERIE? PLEASE JOIN TWO IN· ST. PArS PARTY AT TIVOLI"S for the 
UNITED WAY! $.50 GREEN DRAFTelsewhere, please call Paula x2866 Need ride to LI/NYC for Break-Brian 
TERESTING DOMERS ON THEIR and tell me where I can find it or put it 288-5451 New York for Break? ONE WAY ticket WAY TO Harvard. We'll leave Fri BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS 
$1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREEMELISSA MOODY 
backlnlocker307!!! to Albany available on March 20 for March 21. PLEASE call3861 soon.
IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ONWould you like 
an excellent price. If interested call 
Students to sell Photo Club books. TOAST or BISCUITS SALE NOW 
Sean at 2360.
LOST: womens silver ring of enor­NEiED A RIDE LEAVING WASH., D.C.
All Kodak products used for process­with your 
mous sentimental value; possilby Thank You St. Jude for ail your help! MARCH 27? Join two domers on their
ing. Excellent income. Call654-3250. MOIST PILSNER JAMS? 
FRESHMEN MEET YOUR TEACHERS
lost a lobrary. Call Kathy 3568. Please continue to help me! wey beck from SPRING BREAK.
Mels Mels Mels

Tuesday, March 11 7-9 p.m. Lewis
r ; PLEASE CALL 3861. 
Two girls need ride to Ft. Lauderdale Hail Party Room 
II•·· llhSt'rt't'1' '\<>lrl' 11.1111<' t~lllll' '"l.lll'll ooll Jill llur.l n .... r "' l.tltorllllll 'I<Hinll < l rli<T .Ill t'ph l l.l"lfit·d .uh t rJ I'll').: lr• "" t1 .1 m un1il 1 I' 111 \I• •nd.1' lhr<>ll).:h lrrd.n lht·lllhertt'r'.lllll \l.1n ,,,ftt<l l•••.ll•.l••lllli< llllnlfl<ot•r••f ll.t).:).:.lr < t~llt·).:l < t nlcr .ll, t'J'I', l.1"''" tl' frtolll I~ '"I' 111 1111111 -1 r m \lton d.l\ lhtoll).:ll I r>d.l\ 1'<.1<11111< '"' 11<" tl.l\ , l.t"llll lf, '' ' I'm \II <1.1"111«1' 
mu,lhl prt·p.ltd tllht.rlllptr,,.n••rl".'ll.lli ( h.H).:< '' l<l<llll'l'<fll\t·,h.tr.l<
Classifieds· 
,,.r, t·r dJ\ 

AI the B.P. SYR (2115) I picked up the NEED A MALE ROOMMATE IN ALASKAN OPPORTUNITIES, Virginia Les FOR SALE: 1 WAY AIRLINE TICKET wrong Sport Coat. Hopefully that per· HOUSTON, TX, AFTER GRAD. CALL thousands of summer jobs are You're 21, the time is here So raise FROM CHICAGO TO PITISBURGH
NOTICES son also has picked up mine, it was a BOB x1143 available, earn SS,Q00.$30,000, pam· your glass and drink some cheer OR LATROBE LEAVING 3-21 (SPA· tweed Hunting Horn -similar to the phlet tells you how. Send SS to AK Through 39 and even a miie I lNG BREAK(. CALL LIZ AT 284-5209. one that I picked up. If you are look­OPP., P.O. Box 2451, SLC, UT 84110. sometimes cried, I sometimes smiled 
LOST: Beige sports jacket at for break. Call Mary 1327 It's a great chance to mingle with ODN COFFEEHOUSE 
~l 
Laughlin Auditorium at S.M.C. your profs! Refreshments will be Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMAPINE downstairs first week of Feb. Dear Looking for a tutor in served. at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-CONGRATULATIONS SUSAN A. lady who called me before, please Calc 117 andlor Organic Chern. 12am Monday-Thursdday; 5pm-2am YeleBound 
ceil me again. Great sentimental this summer. Special thanks to the Obudsman Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm· Yale Bound 
value. Thank you for your patience. If interested, please call: 263-2949 Election Committee for their great Happy Birthday Nancy B. Bali 10om Sunday. Yale Bound The tag reads "G. Cannon 40169"' Will pay. wor1t In running the student body I hope you have a wonderful 24th A certeln MYele Men"??????? Is quite Please call at 263-3244 elections! Big Guy THANK YOU ST. JUDE! taken by you. 
iI 
/ 
I , • P f t t ' " 

I t I ' f t •
. The Observer Tuesday, March 11, 1986 -page 9 
NWIT Pairings 
NotreDame 1 
9p.m. Tbanclay t-----... 
U.S. International 8 J 7 p.m. Friday 
Fresno State 4 J J 
4 p.m. Tbursday -----.1. 
Idaho 5 I 
9 p.m. Saturday 

Duke 
2 
7 p.m. Tllursday t-----... 
West Texas St. 7 J 9 p.m. Friday 
Tennessee Tech 3 
f 

l p.m. Tbunclay ,______. N.W. Louisiana 6 

The Ob•erver news department Is now accepting appUcatioas for the foUowing po•itloa•: 
Assistant News Editor Copy Editor Day Chief 
Applications are due Friday at 5 p.m. Contact Frank Lipo at The Observer o./fice or at 239-5303 for further information. 
Men's tennis sweeps three matches 
By PETE S.KIKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team tuned up for its spring trip to texas by impressively disposing of three opponents this weekend at the ACC. 
The Irish defeated Illinois-Chicago, 8-1; Wisconsin-Oshkosh, 9-0; and Ohio, 6-3. The victories bring the team's total record to 8-2, and both the meet and the team's progress thus far have Head Coach Tom Fallon smiling. 
"I was quite pleased with the meet overall," said the veteran coach, "especially the win over Ohio. They play in a tough con­ference and are always near the top of it." 
Fallon is getting good play from his young team so far, and he credits the freshmen for taking on a tough role and stepping into varsity positions. 
"We're young. and that was a question mark early on," he said. "But our team, especially the freshmen, have proven that they can play with quality, division one teams. We're really looking for­ward to going down to San Antonio next week." 
Notre Dame travels to Texas next week to take on nationally ranked teams, and Fallon is confident that the team's play of late is an indica­tion of good things to come. 
Number one singles player Dan Walsh had a successful meet, winn­ing two singles matches and team­ing with sophomore Paul Daggs to defeat an Oshkosh doubles team. In his singles match against Ohio. Walsh split the first two sets. Nor­mally, a third set would be played to decide the outcome, but last weekend the four teams in the meet agreed to experiment with using a 12-point tiebreaker instead of a whole new set. Although he won his match, Walsh does not like the idea. 

The independent student newspaper seNing Notre Dome and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Questions about these posit1ons should be d1rected to Dennis Corrigan at The Observer office. Personal statements and resumes ore due Thursday. March 13. ot7p.m. 
"No, I'm not thrilled with it," said the sophomore. "I don't think that the players will give it too much support; I thing they'd want 
.to see the match played out. But I 
guess it's up to the coaches whether 
it becomes permanent or not." 
Currently, the idea is on a ·trial basis and its permanence is being considered by the NCAA. Fallon is in favor of the proposed ruling, mostly because of the amount of time that is saved when it is im­plemented. 
"Our match against Indiana (earlier this year) took five hours to play," added Fallon. "This weekend, the meet averaged between three and three and a half hours. Playing in this climate, where it gets dark early, some of these matches have to be finished by the light of the cars' headlights. I think this idea is a step in the right direction of lessening the length of college meets." 
The Irish took to the idea of playing a tiebreaker instead of a third set pretty well last weekend. Notre Dame players won four out of five of them against Ohio. 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
The Irish were down 4-0 before Tom Mooney put them on the board in the first period. John Welsh scored twice for .Notre Dame in the second but the Bisons scored three of their own in the period. Erik Grafstrom scored twice in the final stanza to match scores by Notre Dame's Bob Bilton and Waldbillig to make the final9-5. 


APPEARING AT STEPAN CENTER MARCH 11,1986 9:30-11:30 P.M. 

Sponsored by AROUND THE CORNER CLUB and 
-~--­

I 
I \ 
I I 
I \ Women's tennis team 
I { 
I ,
I, 'I 
wins Quadrangular
I \ 
I ' 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN in the first set, but only lost two
I ~ 
' Sports Writer more sets the rest of the weekend : \ 
on her way to improving her mark I ~ to 4-2. I I This weekend at the Notre Dame Playing·· third flight against
I 
I 
I I 1 Quadrangular, the women's tennis Bradley and Akron and second \ \ team almost swept more than the flight against Saint Mary's, IzzyI matches. After losing the first O'Brien now stands at 6-1 on the
I \ 
singles match to Bradley, the year. ' ~: women won the next 26 on their Junior Tammy Schmidt preserv­\ way to 8-1, 9-0, 9-0, defeats of ed her perfect 6-0 record in the 
. \ 
I i \ Bradley, Akron and Saint Mary's. sixth position. Against Saint 

Only Susie Panther's first-flight Mary's, freshman walk-on Natlie loss to Bradley's Joie Rolf (4-6, 6-1, Illig defeated Kim Drahota, 6-2, 6­6-4) marred Notre Dame's near­1. Another freshman Julie perfect weekend on the Courtney Sullivan, also played a match, Courts. defeating the Belles' Shawn Boyd 6­
"We had a really good weekend," 2,6-0. Head Coach Michele Gelfman said. "In the beginning we started off a Carol Rader, in the sixth spot little weak, but these matches really against Saint Mary's and in her first helped us perpare for our other spr­singles competition this year, beat ing matches." Sharlene Szako 6-3, 7-6. Notre 
Second-flight Mary Colligan Dame's number one doubles team raised her record to 5-2 with vic­of Panther and Dasso remain tories over Bradley's Lisa Pettit, undefeated at 5-0, after losing only 
ed out Bradley's Tiffany Ames 7-6 will take on Michigan. 
I
I . 
t : 
I I ·. 
\ .; I ~· ·.
\ 
t .' 
I : 
\ 

I 
\ 
( 
j 
By C. W. EHRMAN season against Indiana in Bloom­scores of 10-9 and 11-10. 
Akron's Cara Mostardo, and Saint five sets over the three weekend 
Sports Writer ington. The two-game stint brought Notre Dame grabbed the early
Mary's first-flight player, Ann matches. 
a 40-run offensive explosion. But lead in the first game, but rookie 
Dimberio. This coming Saturday, the Irish 
The bats were smoking as the the Irish came up on the wrong side pitcher Erik Madsen couldn't
Sophomore Michelle Dasso edg­travel to Ann Arbor, where they 
COME TO 
NEW HAMPSHIRE 
FOR THE SUMMER 
Comp Counlelor POIItlons Available at Outstanding Sports camps 
Comp wtnaukee for Boys and Roblnclel for Girls. 
OM mile aport on 22 mile lake. neCJf 'On Golden Pond' lite and the r.to•ne coast. Good salarieS and oH transportalion paid. Seek quolilled specialists In oil oreos 
Personal tnte,...._ available at LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
11om to 4pm-Tuesday, March 11 
Sign up In placement office or lust stop by. 

$2.00 oH a 16-inch pizza! 
Fresh, hot, great-tasting 
pizza from DOMINO'S 
PIZZA®, Made to order and 
o~(lr

delivered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. ~ 
And on Tuesday, get $2.00 Call us: off any 16-inch cheese 
277·2151 

pizza with 2 or more 1835 South Bend Avenue 
toppings. 
Plaza 23 Center Just ask for Tuesday's South Bend special. Available all day 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No 

this Tuesday •.• only from coupon necessaty. Just request the Tuesday special. Umlled del.lIvery arwe.
Domino's Pizza. ~1986 Domino's Piua. Inc 
II 
DOMINO'S · PIZZA . . DELIVERSe 
• · e FREE. 
Volleyball Club splits pair 
The men's Volleyball Club pulled another Jekyl and Hyde routine last week, defeating Miami (ohio) while losing to IUPU-Fort Wayne. 
On Wednesday the Irish traveled to Fort Wayne to take on the 12th-ranked Mastadons. It was a rough homecoming for Bill Anderson, Notre Dame's head coach, as his former team dumped the 
Irish in three straight games.  
But  the  team  regrouped  on  Friday  against  
Miami, beating the Redskins  15-18, 15-6, 13-15,  
15-3.  

"When we play together we do alright," said Club President Ed Abt. "It's a question now of get­ting it together at the end of the season." 
There is no better time than now for more con­sistent play from the team. The Irish are fighting to repeat as club-level champions of the Midwest In­tercollegiate Volleyball Association. Early season losses to Wisconsin and Calvin College have hurt the team's chances, but it plans revenge in upcom­ing games this week. 
The club was to travel to Grand Rapids, Mich. last night to take on Calvin College. On Saturday, 

Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 
the Irish will take on the Badgers in Madison. . 
"Tht;re is nothing I would like better than to beat Wisconsin," said Abt. "Those earlier games (against Calvin and Wisconsin) should not have even been close." 
Sandwiched between those two road contests is a match against Ball State at the ACC Pit. This is a prime opportunity to see the Irish face the Car­dinals, who are ranked in the Top Twenty. The match begins at 7:30. 
The only other club in action this week is the Gymnastics Club, which will be traveling to Eastern Michigan this week for a meet. Saturday's home meet against Miami was postponed. 
Baseball team loses two to Indiana 
Irish baseball team opened the 1986 of the fence, losing both games by smoulder the bats of the Hoosiers 
as Indiana came back to edge the Irish. 
"Indiana has an excellent ball

ba oon btligqt 
club again this year," commended Irish Head Coach Larry Gallo.
256-0062 
"Our pitching had to stay in front of their powerful batting, but we just couldn't match their six-run in­
PARTY DECORATIONS AND 
BOWKAYS 
ning.

FORST. PADDY'S DAY 
"It was our first day· outside with 
(PICK-UP OR a.OWN DELIVERY) 
the pitchers walking up to the mound for the first time and bat­~~!!!! 127........~·---··;.·---­
ters stepping into the box for the
I lidflit •h• 
first time. However, I was very 
pleased with our hitting and our 
defense was very good. You always 
Summer 
like to start the season on the right foot-it was a tough loss." 
The luck of the Irish seemed to return in the nightcap of the
STORAGE 
doubleheader as the Irish jumped ahead 10-4 in the fifth inning. But the Hoosiers forced the game into
RESERVATION 
an extra inning and thanks to the heroics of a bottom-of-the-inning homerun, took the game, 11-10.
683·1959
CALL NOW 
Sophomore shortstop Steve Sku­pien went four-for-eight on the· 
• VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
afternoon, as the Irish chalked up 19 runs on 21 hits. However, Notre 
•APPROX 2Y2 MILES NORTH US 31-33 
Dame losi outfielder Scott Rogers to a hamstring pull in the first
•GATESOPENALLDAYSUNDAY 
game, and co-captain Tom Shields may miss the rest of the season with
Master Mini Warehouses 
a shoulder injury. 

P.O. BOX 100 NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
"With the injuries," said Gallo, "we have three infielders out of position and are juggling the out­field. With such weaknesses, the 
.._ ·~BEST LITILE STORE-HOUSE IN MICHIANA" ..-~ 
Lochmandy Leasing 
team is going to have to bounce 
& Rental, Inc. back and adjust. They proved in Bloomington that they have a diehard work ethic and don't give

National Car RentaL. 
up easily." 

Weekend and Weekly Specials all year 
Next on the Irish schedule is a
round. Need ITONpOrtatlon to getoft campus lor the -'tend? check our low twinbill against DePauw at Green­rates. Going on a tong trip? We have 
castle, Ind., this Saturday. On
weekly specials designed foro student's budget.­
Sunday, the Irish stay in Greencas­tle to play the Tigers in game three 
One Way Rentals Available fo OYer 1000 locations· at low unlimited mileage rates of the series. 
with no drop charges. Excellent wav ta get home for vacation at reasonable prices. 

Conveniently located at the 
We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 

Correction 

Because of an editing error, the headline on the women's in­terhall basketball championship incorrectly stated the game's 
final  score.  Lewis  defeated  
Breen-Phillips, 36-34,  in  over­ 
time.  



Bloom County 


The Daily Cross-word 
ACROSS 
1 Eastern  
European  
5 Mortification  
10 Fake  
14 Angelic wear  
15 Lead-tin alloy  
16 Poi source  
17 Bach fa\(orite  
20 Write  
21 Elaborate  
melody  
22 Tidiness  
23 Captain Hook's  
sidekick  
24 Ditto  
26 Seven things  
29 Do road work  
30 Jazz style  
33 Fitzgerald  
34 Marshy Inlet  
35 Ab­ 
36 Gershwin  
favorite  
40 Cartoonist  
Gardner  
41 Civet's kin  
© 1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc.42 Unaspirated 3/11/86All Rights Reserved 
43 Arp's field 44 Single  Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  
45 Desisted  9 Poetic time  
47 Falsegod  10 Cubic meter  
48 Roz Russell  11 Difficult  
role  12 Comic Johnson  
49 Emulate Crosby  13 Othello for  
52 Seer's reading  one  
matter  18 "Today -man"  
53 Conceit  19 Start ofa Mae  
56 Brahms'  West quote  
favorites  23 Have the lead  
60 Soviet range  24 "­ Isn't so"  
61  Remus or Sam  25 Bard's stream  
62 Spoken  26 "Do 1­ 
63 Hawaiian bird  Waltz?"  
64 Nymph chaser  27 Gantry or Fudd  
65 Sp. money  28 Skirt fold  
29 Jury group  
DOWN  30 Tiresome  
1 Liner  people  3/11/86  
2 Recent  31 Sheepllke  46 Mme. Bovary  53 Neutral shade  
3 Bates or Arkin  32 Attitudinized  47 Hollywood  54 First or  
4 Tenn. athlete  34 Trite  nickname  reverse  
5 Gawked  37 Large lizard  48 VIrile  55 Eur. capital  
6 Noted skater  38 "last Supper"  49 Sleuth Charlie  57 Soviet Union:  
of old  painting  50 Govern  abbr.  
7 Medieval chest  39 Wings  51  -even keel  58 One ­ million  
8 Alphabet run  45 Mobile creator  52 Treaty  59 Dozeoff  


Tuesday, March 11 , 1986 -page 11 I 
I 

Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson J I 

I
© 1986 Un1versa1 Press Syndicate 
j j j 
i I 
Campus 

•12 
p.m. -Lecture, ''Universal Capitalism: USOP," Stuart Speiser, Law School Student Lounge, Sponsored by the Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government and Center for Social Concerns 

•t2:30 
p.m. -Blood Drive, Student Health 


Center, Sponsored by the Class of '87 *1:15 p.m. -AFROTC DRILL COMPETI­tion, Stepan Center 
*3:30p.m.-Seminar, "Laboratory Researches on Suspension-feeding of Ciliates on Bacteria and Particulate Matter," Prof. A.G. Frederickson, University of Minnesota, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by the Chemical Engineering Dept. 
•4 
p.m. -Workshop, "Making Career Deci­sions," Joan Mcintosh, Notre Dame, Career & Placement Services Conference Room, Spon­sored by Career & Placement Services 

•4:15 
p.m.-Lecture and Discussion, explores "What Can I do?" in the context of the film: "For Export Only: Pesticides," Joseph Miller, Saint Mary's, Stapleton Lounge, Sponsored by the Justice Education Dept. 

•4:30 
p.m. -Lecture, "Smectite Diagenesis ­Its Relation to Structural Development and Hydrocarbon Accumulation," Clement Bruce, Consulting Geologist, Dallas, Tex., Room 101 Earth Sciences, Sponsored by the Earth Sciences American Association of Petroleum 

•4:30 
p.m. -Seminar, "Lyme Disease in the Northeast: a Tick-Borne Borreliosis Epidemic," Dr. Durland Fish, Medical En­


tomology  Laboratory,  New  York  Medical  
College,  Room  283 Galvin  Life  Sciences  
Center  

*4:30 p.m. -Lecture, "Introduction: General Propoerties of Cluster Compounds," Prof. Sir jack Lewis, University Chemical Laboratory, Cambridge, England, Room 123 Nieuwland 

~ 
~ 
j j 
I I I 
j j j 
I I 
J 
I 
I 
j j 

Early comedians 
· 

*7 p.m. -Lecture, "Designing a Lifestyle for Heart Lights," Designed for Life, James Fink, M.D., South Dining Hall, Sponsored by University Food Services 
•7 p.m. -Freshman Meet Your Teachers Night, "Forming Better Student -Faculty Relationships, Lewis Hall party Room, Spon­sored by Freshman Year and student govern­ment 
*7 p.m. -Colloquium, "One God in Three Religions: Any Hope for Reconciliation?" Law School Room 101, Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns 
•7 p.m. -Debate, "The Changing Roles of Men and Women in the 1980s,'' Phyllis Schlaf­ly and Sarah Weddington, Washington Hall, 
Sponsored by Student Activities Undergraduate Club, Student Government, Theology Dept., Ideas and Issues Committee, University Ministry, Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality and the Center for Social Con­cerns and the Class of '87 
•7:30 
p.m. -Movie, "Palm Beach Story," An­nenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Tues­day Night Film Series 

•s 
p.m. -Lecture, "War and civil Liberties in Twentieth-Century America," Prof. Richard Polenberg, Cornell University, Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by the Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Dept. of History 

•8:30 
p.m. -Discussion and Performance, Dan Peek, voice of the Musical Group · America. South Dining Hall, Sponsored by the SAB Alcohol Awareness Week 



Thanks toyou... it works... forALLOFUS 
o~~ 



Tuesday, March 11, 1986-page 12
S~orts 

Grace takes interhall hockey crown 
-,. 
~ l 

by defeating Boward/Cavanaugh 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI superior skating talent and speed as loudly encourage the very physical Sports Writer Steve Bishop passed to McBride at play of both teams. 
11 :05 for the second goal. Howard/Cavanaugh answered 
In what was truly the test of the Howard/Cavanaugh came right with a furious scoring attack at 
two best teams in interhall hockey back with a goal at 6:45 when Tim 1 :32, as Chris Sullivan scored the 
for the championship last night, McClennan passed from the corner goal with assists from Clay Hamlin 
Grace remained unbeaten as it to Ray Cucinello, who put it in and McClellan. 
defeated Howard/Cavanaugh, 5-2, form the crease. In the second half, Grace kept 
in front of many enthusiastic fans the zone in front of its net clear and 
from both dorms. "This team has shown a lot of backchecked well to take offensive 
heart from the beginning," said control of the game. At 14:37, 
"Cavanaugh played outstanding, Howard/Cavanaugh coach John defenseman Tom elliott shot from they never let up and we never let Oteri. "We have come back in ever­the blue line, McBride passed the up," said Grace player-coach Jim y one of our games. and this has rebound to Lance Williams, who Rataczak. "Our defense was been our best season in three long buried the goal. outstanding, and the forwards were years!' Left wing Sam Dempsey received in the offensive zone like they have With 2:30 remaining in the first a checking penalty at 6:29 which been all year." half, center Drew "Slasher" forced a Howard/Cavanaugh 
At the 16:21 mark, Grace defen­Spesard won the face-off and pass­power play. Great saves by Elliott sive captain Mike Marino broke ed to John Huberty who scored on and goalie Phil Coghlan turned away and passed to Joe McBride a one-on-one breakaway. The for the first goal. Grace showed Grace supporters continued to see GRACE, page 8 
Seniors remember past four years 
as Irish hold basketball banquet 
By JEFF BLUMB byes at the annual basketball ban­.593 shooting percentage ranks as Irish junior forward Donald Royal goes up for a layup in ~tu~­Sports Editor quet. the seventh best single-season mark day's win over Dayton. With the NCAA Tournament loom.mg m The team captain, Barlow earned in Notre Dame history. the future, the Irish basketball team banquet was held last mght at It was an emotional evening last the most awards, including the Despite all the awards handed the ACC. Jeff Blumb has more on the banquet and the awards night for four seniors as Ken 1985-86 Most Valuable Player out, though, the best part of the handed out in his story at lower right. Barlow, Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton Award from the Notre Dame Na­evening was when the four seniors and Joseph Price said their good-tional Monogram Club, which he spoke about their careers and their shared with guard David Rivers. coach, Digger Phelps. Barlow also received the Notre Near the end of the banquet,
Notre Dame finishes by losing two 
Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Kempton held the microphone for Student-Athlete Award, member­close to 25 minutes, first kidding
By DENNIS CORRIGAN phases of the game," said Smith, State Saturday afternoon. Notre 
ship in the 1 ,000-point club (he's many of those at the table of
Sports Writer who completed his 18th year Dame gave up the first four goals 
presently 11th in all-time scoring honor, then becoming very serious. 
behind the Notre Dame bench. "It of the contest in the first period and 
with I ,332 points), the Father Tom "It's very hard to leave," said an
The Notre Dame hockey team was one of the best games of the was never in the contest. 
Brennan Award for Free-Throw emotion-choked Kempton. "It is 
finished off the 1985-86 season in a year. Both teams were really play­"It was a nothing-type game," 
Percentage (his .887 percentage will hard to say goodbye. This is my
commented Smith. "We wanted to
disappointing manner, dropping ing inspired hockey. A couple of set an all-time individual mark, home and I know I always can 
two games in a tournament at give-aways in our own zone cost us try to come back and salvage topping Kelly Tripucka's .854 come back here. Alabama-Huntsville. The Irish, some key goals, and their something. But it was strictly a con­percentage set in the 1978-79 "I really can't thank Coach who finished the season with a 12-goaltender really came up with solation game and we didn't do too season) and the Rebounding Phelps enough for all he's done for 21-1 mark, lost to the host some very big stops. much. Award. me. He stuck by me when the going 
Chargers, 5-4, Friday night and "We controlled play throughout In addition to sharing MVP was tough. I learned a lot from 
honors with Barlow, Rivers also him."
dropped their finale on Saturday to "On our side, Dave Waldbillig, the game, but we gave up some 
was honored with the Clutch Player Price took things on a less
North Dakota State, 9-5. Jeff Badalich and Bob Herber did breakaway goals. It seemed like 
of the Year Award and as the Assist serious note. In addition to mock­
The Irish had one of the best great jobs for us." every time we were in their end at­
Leader (he finished the regular ing Phelps, he joked that Kempton 
games of the year in losing to Hunt­But after giving it their all on Fri­tacking, and they'd get a 
season with 132). It was the second had scored more touchdowns at sville Friday, according to Head day, the Irish were unable to breakaway. straight year the sophomore won Notre Dame than Irish tailback Coach Lefty Smith. muster up the strength and energy the two awards. Allen Pinkett. "Whenever he, "Both teams played well in all for the consolation game with N.D. see IRISH, page 9 Dolan won the Best Defensive mishandled the ball, you would see Player Award for the third con­all those hands go up like this," said secutive year, in addition to getting Price, thrusting his arms upward. the Most Improved Player Award. Barlow took time to reflect on
Swimming team finishes seventh 
Junior forward Donald Royal the four years that the four had shared the Best · Defensive Player together.
By BOB KEMPER In Friday's events, including an extremely good job," Welsh 
Award with Dolan. "We had an awful lot of dreams 
Sports Writer both time trials and championship said, "but at the championship 
Kempton and Price each received when we came here as freshmen," 
heats, the Irish recorded 13 per­meets, the juniors and seniors lead 
one award at their final banquet. he said. "We've been very suc­The Notre Dame men's swimm­sonal best times in 16 races and the way. This is to be expected, Kempton was given the Role Player cessful in improving each year. ing team concluded its season this were nearly perfect again on Satur­though, because experience is im­of the Year Award, while Price We're not done, though. The road past weekend at the Midwest In­day when they netted 19 best times portant in championship meets. shared the Fireman of the Year is still open before us." vitational in Chicago, where they in 21 events. "One member of the team that Award with junior Scott Hicks. Rivers stressed all that the four Freshman Mark Stevenson seniors had done to he!p him.
placed seventh out of a field of 10. "We prepared very well for this deserves special recognition is 
managed one award, as well. "There really isn't a word to
The Irish accumulated 175 points in meet and demonsrated a tremen­senior Blaise Harding. He provided 
Stevenson received the Most Ac­describe what they have done for
the 18-event met. Western Illinois dous team effort," noted Welsh. valuable leadership and was the on­
curate Shooter Award. His current me. I wish them well," he said. 

captured first place, followed by "In all of the relay events, every ly Notre Dame swimmer to score in Western Kentucky, Southwestern person swam his fastest time of the all the events that he was entered Missouri State, Bradley, Eastern year. Compared to ourself, the in," said Welsh. Kentucky, Illinois-Chicago, Notre results were excellent. If we con­Harding placed eighth in the 500­Dame, Eastern Illinois, Evansville, tinue to improve at this pace, we yard freestyle event, seventh in the 
•;. and Northern Iowa. will be in the hunt next year." 400-yard individual medley and six­
The seventh place finish was a teenth in the 200-yard individual slight improvement over last year University records were set in medley. when the Irish placed eighth in a four events. Freshman Charles Coach Welsh stressed the fact 
' 
~ 
12-team field. This is somewhat Neidhoefer set breaststroke events that the 1985-86 men's swimmingi
I misleading though, because this with times of 59.62 and 2:11.20 team was a team without a year's field was faster and Notre' respectively. Junior John Koselka superstar. t ~ \ Dame's performance was markedly set the Notre Dame mark in the 50-"Team balance was essential," 
I' 
I better than last year's. yard freestyle event with a time of Welsh commented. "Everyone did 
' ' Notre Dame head coach Tim 21.18. And in the 400-yard in­his best, and no one person stooa Welsh was very pleased with his dividual medley. senior Blaise Har­out. The relay events were quite in­team's performance. ding set a University record with a dicative of this because the in­
"We looked forward to this meet time of 4:13.52. dividual times were very close. all year with the objective of Coach Welsh was quick to praise "This was a spirited. congenial
; 
I ' I everyone swimming his personal the upperclassmen for Notre and supportive group. They trained 
''· I 
I 1 fastest times," said Welsh. "We Dame's strong showing. very hard since August, and the ! r ~ ; ' I, succeeded at this to the extent that "During our dual meet season, Midwest Invitational was a nice we made it look easy." the freshmen and sophomores did climax to a wonderful year." 
' 
~ l 
Tickets available 
Special to The Observer ly one ticket will be sold per ID. 
Tickets will be sold on a first­
Approximately 100 tickets come, first-served basis, and will be made available on cam­Notre Dame Ticket Manager pus to ~tudents for Notre Mike Bobinski expects all of Dame's NCAA tournament them to be sold quickly. game with Arkansas-Little Rock Should Notre Dame win Fri­Friday in Minneapolis. The day, those persons who pur­tickets, which remain from chase these tickets will have first Notre Dame's allotment of 250, chance to purchase tickets in will go on sale tomorrow at 9 Minneapolis for Sunday's 
a.m. at Gate 10 of the ACC. second-round game, which ten­
The price of the tickets, which tatively is set for 1:15 p.m. More also will be good for admission details on this arrangement will to the North Carolina State­. he given by the ticket office at Iowa game that night, is $15. To the time of sale on Wednesday. purchase a ticket students must This sale of tickets is only for present a valid ID card, and on-students. 
f: 
... 
~-----~------~--­


