Doonesbury -page 4 


Rescue u•orkers usea crane in their efforts amidst the mbble ofbuildings in an upper-class neighbor­hood near the French Embassy in Tripoli, Tuesday. Rumors that Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy was 

Khadafy emerges from seclusion 
~ted Press 
TRIPOLI. Libya Moammar Khadafy emerged from two days' seclusion late yesterday, con­demnt·d the United States for its air attack on Libya and vowed that his people are ready to fight on and die. 
But the Libyan leader, whose baby daughter was reported killed in the raid, told Americans, "We will not kill your children. We are not like you, we do not bombard cities." 
Khadafy's appearance on Libyan television, during which he dis­claimt•d responsibility for anti­American terror attacks, dispelled speculation he had left the country or been killed or seriously injured in the Tuesday morning air raid, staged by waves of U.S. warplanes that dumped one bomb just 10 yards from the Khadafy residence in his fortress headquarters here. 
Earlit·r last night, anti-aircraft fire streaked the black skies over this seaside capital for a second day and gunfire ricocheted around the headquarters compound. Govern­ment official& denied the street gunfire signaled factional fighting among the Libyans. 
Anti-aircraft crews fiJ:st opened up in mid-afternoon yesterday at what officials said was a high-flying 
U.S. reconnaissance jet. A Was­hington source acknowledged that reconnaissance planes had flown over this north African nation. 
The Libyans also said there were new U.S. air attacks yesterday against Tripoli and towns south and east of here. But the Pentagon denied it, and reporters here found no signs of new bombardments. 

For almost two full days after the damaging U.S. air bombardment of Tripoli, Khadafy had remained out ofsight. Earlier yesterday, he failed to appear for a promised meeting with journalists at his headquarters. 
Then, at 11:15 p.m. (4:15p.m. EST), the Libyan leader appeared on state television, dressed in a white army uniform and speaking in a studio with a map ofAfrica be­hind him. 

"We are ready to die and we are ready to carry on fighting and defending our country," he declared, speaking in Arabic. 
He said President Reagan "has issued orders to his armed forces to kill our children. We have not issued any orders to murder anybody." 

The attacks, which the United States said were targeted on five security and military installations in Tripoli and the eastern Libyan city of Benghazi, also severely damaged a civilian neighboJ:hood in Tripoli. Western diplomats said at least 100 people, and probably many more, were killed in Tripoli alone. 
Doctors said Khadafy's 15· month-old adopted daughter, Hana, was among the dead, and his 
see KHADAFY, page 6 


Priest continues fast for divestment 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
Neu•s Editor 
Visiting t·ducator Father Basil van Rensburg issued a statement yester­day saying h(.' is continuing to fast and to pray that Notre Dame will divest from it.'i holding..-; in corpora­tions that do busint·ss in South Africa. 
Beginning the sn·ond week of his fast. van Rt·nsburg spoke before a crowd of about 2"5 outside the Center for Soda! Concerns. 
Van Renshurg said he was grateful to University President Father Tht·odore llesburgh for responding to his fa.o;t and for making "some wdl-m~:ant comments about m~:." llow~:v~:r. van Rensburg said that to concentratt' on a pt·rson who fasts is 10 misunderstand the issue. "The purpose of the fast is to draw the community together in a reflective and prayerful spirit so that Notre Dame can discern a course of ac­tion," said van Rensburg. 
Van R~:nsburg, who stands five feet, nine inches tall, said he now weighs 194 pounds, I 5 pounds less than he did at the start of the fast. 
"I might add I had to get another belt and trousers, the others are slip­ping." 
Van Rensburg told the crowd about some of the letters he has received in response co his fast. He said he ha.<~ received support from groups such a.~ St. Malachi paris­honers in Chicago and Mennonites in Goshen, who have volunteered to fast periodically with him. "I received a letter from an executivt' corporate lady in Chicago who said 'I support your fast.... In support I'm giving up candy, I'm giving up alcohol and I've stopped flying first­class.' She went on to say, 'I wouldn't want to make a habit of this, so please let me know when you stop,' "van Rensburg said. 
"Notre Dame is being asked to choose," van Rensburg said. "Until it divests, tbe UniveJ:sity has chosen to identify with the white establish­ment, its corporate institutions and state agencies. 
"In South Africa and here at Notre Dame it is the Kairos, or moment of truth." 
Van Rensburg said bishops and priests in South Africa are putting their reputations on the line by speaking out. He said the blacks are saying to the Church "stop issuing statements. Stop going on marches. We want you to do a civil dis­obedience. We want you to openly defy the government. I'm frightened ofa confessing Church going under-
see FAST, page 5 


Fisher Hall resident finds asbestos in room 
ByJIM RILEY 
and ELLYN MASTAKO 
Senior StaffReporters 
Asbestos, a known cancer-causing agent, was found rc;cently in Room 5 Fisher Hall, according toJohn Moor­man, director of maintenance at Notre Dame. 
One of the residents of the base­ment double, junior Sh3wn Black, said his father noticed the asbestos while visiting duringJunior Parents' Weekend. The asbestos was visible on the pipes that run along the ceiling of the room, according to Black. 
The asbestos is used to insulate pipes running along the ceilings of seven student rooms, housing 16 students, as well the game room, study rooms and hallways, accord­ing to Black. 
The insulation on the pipes in Room 5 was changed to a non­asbestos material while Black and his roommate were away for spring break, but it was not changed in any of the other rooms, said Black. 
An unidentified inspector visited the basement of Fisher twice before break, said sophomore Greg Gib­bons, also a resident of a basement room. The inspector began in Room 5 and then asked to be shown to ot· her areas which might contain as­bestos, according to Gibbons. 
The inspector identified the material on some of the pipes in Room 5 and in the hallway as bdng 1 0 peJ:cent asbestos and some as being 90 percent asbestos, accord­ing to Gibbons. 
Both types of asbestos are exposed between sections ofinsula­tion on many pipes, and the material is loose and flaking in some places, according to Gibbons. 
Donald Dedrick, director of the 
physical plant, confirmed the fin­
ding of asbestos in Room 5. 
"Asbestos was used in the buildings 
until the late 1960s or early 1970s," 
said Dedrick. "When it is in plan·, 
there's absolutely no hazard to stu­
dents' health. It's only when the as­
bestos becomes loose that there is a 
danger. 
"When it does become loose, we 
hire a contractor who is trained in 
the removal of asbestos to remove 
the material and replace it with a 
non-asbestos-type insulative 
material," Dedrick said. 
He later added that maintenan,·e 
workers sometimes contain the 
loose asbestos by wrapping it. 

I 
"There is no danger to students 
I I 

Tbe pipes tn Ftsber Room 5 
that we are immediately aware of," said Dedrick. "If there were any danger, steps would be taken to remove the asbestos immediately. 
"It was reported to me that Room 5 was the only place where there was a problem," said Dedrick, who added he would "go look at (the ot­her rooms) personally. 
"Most ofthe asbestos that is still In place around the campus, In clas­srooms and dorms. is only In the pipes down in the steam tunnels," according to Dedrick. 


Faust voted to receive Senior Fellow award 
By MARK MELLETI 
News Staff 
Gerry Faust undoubtedly left his mark in the heart of the senior class, as he was elected the I986 Senior Fellow yesterday. 
"The Senior Fellow is a really spe­cial award," said Senior Class Presi­dentjohn Spatz. "It goes to someone who upholds the Christian morals and ideals we find in the Notre Dame community." 
Spatz added that the award ack­nowledges the spirit and work that a person puts toward the progression of the school. He or she must in­fluence the senior class in some way, Spatz said. 
"Although Gerry Faust was not the most successful Notre Dame football coach, Gerry Faust is a man respected inside and outside the Notre Dame community," said Pam Fox, vice president of the senior class. 
"Gerry Faust stood up for his beliefs, his dreams, and his goals," said Spatz. Spatz added that "Gerry Faust set a good example for the seniors heading out into the real world. He showed us courage.'' 
Faust was unable to be reached for comment. He will be asked to accept the Senior Fellow plaque at the Senior Commencement Dinner, Spatz said. 
The election, which took place Monday and Tuesday, favored Faust by a margin of 26 votes. "It was very competitive," said Spatz. 
Sixteen people were nominated by the senior class. The ballot in­cluded Faust, Professor Peter Walshe, Father Steve Gibson, fensing coach Mike DeCicco, William Hickey Jr., Pasquale Anastasio, Assis-

Gerry Faust 
tant Dean Robert Wadick, Father Ed­ward Maloy, Father Robert Griffin, Mary Ann Roemer, janet Smith, Paul Reynolds, Katie Wesolowski, Bev Vickery, Father Basil van Rensburg and ProfessorJoseph Duffy. 

The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 2 
Of Interest ­
Two-member teams for the An Tostal Decathalon may sign up with dorm representatives today through Friday. For more information, call Patrick Murphy at 283-3380.-The Observer 
"Women and the Word:TheGenderofGodinthe New Testament and the Spirituality of Women" will be the topic of Saint Mary's second annual Madeleva Lecture tonight at 7:30. The lecture, which is open to the public and free ofcharge, will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Speaking will be Sandra Schneiders, as­sociate professor of New Testament Studies, Jesuit School of Theol­ogy/Graduate Theological Union, Berkeley, Cal. -The Observer 
The 1986 College of Science Lectureship in Biology will continue today and tomorrow at 4:30p.m. Speaking in the Galvin Life Science Auditorium will be Dr. Bernard Moss on "Regulation of Vaccinia Virus Gene" today, and "Recombinant Viruses as Live Vaccines" tomorrow.-The Observer 
An Tostal Canoe Race signups for two-member teams are now being taken by Alice Kroeger and Connie Williams at 284-5260. The race is limited to the first 40 teams that register.-The Observer 
The Ugly Man on Campuscontestislookingfor contestants. All interested may contact Laura at 283-4692 or Doug at 277-1067. Balloting for the An Tostal contest begins April 21. -The Observer 
Are you a Druid?If so, the An Tostal Zoo will hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the An Tostal office (part ofthe SAB offices in LaFortune) to discuss upcoming worship ceremonies. Interested students may call 283-I373 for more details. -The Observer 
An Tostal "Kisser" contestants have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in LaFortune's Little Theatre. The "Kisser" game will start following the meeting. For more information, call Kevin Walker at 283-1750. -The Observer 
MDA Dance-A-Thonregistrations are being taken in the dining halls this week. The dance, which runs from 9 p.m. Satur-. day until 9 a.m. Sunday, will feature WZZP disc jockeys, a live band, free refreshments, and hourly prizes. The cost is $3 per person and $5 per couple, but admission is free for those who collect $12 or more in sponsorship. For additional information, call 283-l092. ­
The Observer 
Big BrothersI Big Sisters will hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns for any freshmen and sophomores interested in the program. -The Observer 
"The Literature of the Vietnam War/' a paper by English Professor Robert Slabey, will be discussed by Slabey today at 4: 15 p.m. in the Wilson Commons of the Graduate dub. Refreshments will be served after the free discussion. -The Observer 

"After the Famine: Refugees and Food Policy in Africa" will be the topic ofdiscussion today at 4 p.m. in Room 131 of Decio. Speaking will be Diana de Treville of the Institute for Development Anthropology, Binghamton, N.Y., where she is researching contract farming agribusiness schemes for Africa. -The Obspn•er 
Mergers, acquisitions and leveraged buyouts of closely-held companies will be the topic of a seminar presented by Crowe, Chizek and Company tonight at 7 in Room 124 Hayes-Healy. The event is sponsored by the Finance Club. -The Observer 
"Ezra Poundas a Student of Italian Culture" will be dis­cussed by Professor John Welle today at 4:30p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns coffeehouse. The talk will preceed the Italian Na­tional Honor Society inductions, and is presented as part of Italian Culture Week. Interested students may attend the pizza party to fol­low the talk. -The Observer 


Weather 0 
Sunbathing probably will not be possible today, but the temperature is expected to rise as high as 55 to 60, and the sky will be clearing. Tonight will be clear and cool with the low around 35. Increasing clouds and warmer tomorrow with high 65 to 70. -AP 
Design Editor .................... Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor ........... Mary Reynolds Design Assis/Qnt ...................... Rob Bartolo Accent Layout..................... Mary Reynolds Typesetters............. Mary Ellen Harrington ND Day Editor ...................Sharon Emmett 
Becky Gunderman SMC Day Editor .................... Priscilla Karle News Editor.......................Ann Kaltenbach Ad Design .............................. Peter Georges Copy Editor .................................... Phil Wolf joan Wrappe Sports Copy Editor .......... Mike Szymanski Jim Kraimer Viewpoint Copy Editor ..........Sue Dunbar Photographer ......................... Greg Stanger l'!ewpoint lAyout ...............Andl Schnuck 

The Oltscrvcr (liSPS W9 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday ext·ept durin(( exam and vacation period!..lbe Observer is published hy the students ofthe l"niversit)" of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscription.• may he purchased for HU per ye:.r ( alO per semester) hy writing The Observer, P.O Box Q. :-.lotre Dam<c. Indiana 
~M'\6. 
1bc Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction righ" ar<c te!W"rved. 

Crime articles in last week's papers don't tell the rest of the story 
The Observer ran three stories last week about crimes at Notre Dame, reporting a total of 26 thefts from rooms, six bike thefts, two purse thefts, three acts Mark ofvandalism and two assaults. 
Those articles were similiar to crime stories appear­Pankowski ing in most newspapers. Words and phrases like 
News Editor 
"allegedly," "reported that," and "suspected" appeared throughout the articles, just as they do in major metropolitan dailies. 

Unfortunately, the articles were similar to most misfortune, the student replied, "Hey, 570 is a lot of crime stories in another way: they covered the legal money." side of the story, but for the most part, they left out the They stopped snickering. human side. And finally, there was the Observer reporter who 
I ought to know. I wrote them. wrote those three crime stories: me. I'd never given 
There was Professor Will Neuert of the communica­crime much thought here. I didn't lock my door before tions and theater department. His 1983 red BMW had going to sleep at night. I certainly never worried about its hood scratched, the air let out of three ofits tires and walking alone in darkened buildings. After all, Notre its windshield smashed. Security had found fin­Dame must be one of the safest universities in the gerprints, partial handprints and shoeprints on the car. country. 
That much plus a few ot­Then came last week, her essential details were in when Security Director Rex the paper. But because anot­Rakow told me about the 26 her more serious crime took thefts from rooms, all with precedence in the article, their doors apparently un­another side of Neuert's locked. Some of the thefts, story was left untold. Rakow told me, occurred at 
"I had only owned that car ,.. __ night while the rooms' oc­for three weeks," said (!...[ ,'J cupants were sleeping. It Neuert the day after his car t:•.___,.T was also the week a


1J' /
was vandalized. He glanced .....-=:.( /~ ,~-, LaFortune student manager over at his car. 17'1~,, told me about an incident
//~\ \ 
occurring on the first floor ­. .. I1 I, I 1 -\ 1--..J 'IJ "I mortgaged my life to 1 , / 1) 1'\ f/ {I/~J_; \ 
b of LaFortune. A student, he
uy 1t. _ • -1 I,,' ''-I"="''.\ , .....•,,-I • ' 1
t I 
Then there was Director ( -d ) -, \)!\ 1 '/J 1J said, had been assaulted at approximately 12: I 5 a.m.
of Maintenance John Moor-~~ hJ I '·~:'J /, man. Like many at the Uni-\l ~ 1 / "\_'......-/ the day before. The student versity, he found it difficult <'-.Jl'I -had been lucky, however. to believe someone would ]J -" He had been only slightly vandalize the War Memorial. , ,J/I~IJ)61H/IDU f-17 injured in the attack. "It's ridiculous, especially if My reaction to these you think of the purpose of the memorial," said Moor­crimes obviously wasn't told in those stories. But I'll be man the day after the vandalism occured. "It represents the first to admit that after I wrote them, I began locking the deaths ofsoldiersof the United States." my door before I fell asleep. In fact, I even got up once And like many at the University, he wasn't quoted in last week at 4 a.m. when I had forgotten. And when the the April II story. Yet Moorman is different from most lights were dimmed in LaFortune one night last week at the University. because of 11. pa!"tial blackout? He is a veteran. I wasactuallynervousabout walking alone there. Then there are the 34 students whose property was To borrow the words ofa famous journalist: And now stolen last week. The articles about the crimes provided you know ... the rest of the story. mostly basic information, such as the total amount lost from the thefts. But providing basic information doesn't tell the problems these 34 students now must face. Six of them no longer have a bike to ride. More than 20 must replace the room keys, driver's licenses and credit cards lost when their purses and wallets were stolen. Not to mention the cash. "I had $70 in my wallet when it was stolen," a student said last week. When those around him snickered at his 



''SENSATIONAL. 
DON'T MISS IT." 
-Re:z: Reed, NEW YORK POST 
"I loved it. The dancing is 
APRIL 18& 19 
brilliant. WOW!" 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY 
-JoelSiegel, ABC-TV, GOOD MORNING AMERICA 
CARROLL HALL SMC 8PM& 10:30 PM


WHITE 
Sponsored by the SMC Student Government 

NI&H'I'S 

Theology at Saint Mary's College 
Fall1986 
Special Electives 
RLST 306 Biblical Theology Weiss MW: 3:30 
RLST 335 Thomas Merton Malits W : 6:30 
RLST 360 Sexuality & Marriage Donnelly W : 6:00 
RLST 420 Religious Education I Feeley Tu: 6:30 
RLST430 Hebrew Scriptures Burns Tu Th 4:15 
RLST 450 Christ: Old-New Views Martin MWF : 2:20 
Requirements: ND students may fulfill first requirement in theology by taking 
RLST 200 and the second requirement by taking RLST 201-299 at SMC. 
~~~~.._.. ............. .._...._,.~..-. ..... ._...._..~..-....,.~..-.~.._..~~~~ 
Times for registration at Angela Athletic Facility: Seniors 86-87 4:00-5:00 Monday, April21 
Juniors 86-87 5:00-6:00 Monday, April21 
Sophomores 86-87 4:00-5:00 Wednesday, April 23 
NB: ND Preliminary Schedule of Courses for Fall1986 has incorrectly printed 
list of Religious Studies Courses. For correct listing, see SMC Schedule or 
ND Theology Dept. Description of Courses. Call284-4534/4535 for more 


----------------·--------------, The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 3 

Protestors abroad 
More than 5,000 West Berlin citizens protest against the American attack againstLibya Monday nightatKur:fuerstendamm Tuesday night. Poster reads "Bomb-terror, war-terror ... nuclear war?· are you insane!" 
By KATIE SULLIVAN Cook addressed the new News Staff Programming Board at Its first meeting last night at Haggar College 
Communication will be the key to Center. The meeting was a basic In· a successful year for the Silint Mary's troduction for members to all Programming Board, according to aspects of the Programming Board. Sarah Cook, vice president of stu· Members of the board discussed dent affairs at the College. the showing of"White Nights," to be 

Now that you've made it through college, ask your parents for agraduation present to help you get through life. 
AMacintosh™personal computer. 
If you're headed off into the business world, we highly recom­mend our new Macintosh Plus. 
Between its one megabyte of RAM, 12BK of ROM and double­sided BOOK internal disk drive, it lets you put all the power of a comer office on asingle comer of your desk. 
If your parents buy the idea of aMacintosh, but feel like maybe theyve donated enough to your future the past four years, there's always our newly en­hanced Macintosh 512K with its added BOOK internal disk drive and 12BK of ROM. 
Its considerably more afford­able,yet still has enough power to run hundreds of leading software programs. Besides, you canal­ways upgrade your Macintosh 512K up to aMacintosh Plus later. 
Ofcourse, with either Macin­tosh, you get our advanced point­and-click mouse technology that makes using them easier cl1an passing Pinball Theory101. So you can immediately be pro­ductive, without taking acourse in remedial computing. 
To learn more, visit your campus microcomputer center. 
Soon. 

Because once you're out of school, you're out of luck. 


NEW LOW PRICING ON MACINTOSH Sl2K/MACINTOSH PLUS UPGRADES NOW AVAILABLE University of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students can buy Macintosh computers at discounted prices from the Notre Dame Computer Store. For further information, inquire at Computing Center, room 2S, 9:00-S:OO M-F, Phone 239-7477 

Phone-a-thon hits halfway mark 
By ANN MARIE DURNING 
News Staff 
The spring phone-a-thon of the Notre Dame Annual Fund has raised an estimated S72,000 to $73,000, more than half its fundraising goal, director Dan Reagan said Tuesday night. 
Annjohnston, assistant director of the fund, explained this method of fundraising as the fastest way to reach the greatest number of alumni, adding that it has proven to be more effective than a direct mail appeal. 
The Annual Fund underwrites salaries, physical plant repairs, major renovations, campus beautification and other University projects. 
"It's really going well," student manager Matt Hanley said. "We have already equaled the amount raised (in the phone·a·thon) last fall. Stu· dents have been really enthusiastic and the alumni like this. They tend to relate to students and are curious about what's happening on campus." 

The drive increased its hours last night and split into two shifts, from 6 
p.m. to 9 p.m. and from 9:1 S p.m. un· til midnight in order to reach west coast alumni and to increase campus participation, Reagan said. 
The phone·a·thon, which began April 7 and will continue through April 24, is being conducted Mon· day through Thursday evenings as part of the Fund's efforts to raise money for the University. 
The phone·a·thon depends upon student volunteers from campus or· ganizations to call alumni. Four stu· dent managers, Hanley, Mary Broughton, Joanie Cahill and Marc Haunz contact dorms and clubs and arrange for their participation in the fundraiser. 
Each organization receives S40 for participating in the phone-a· thon, an additional S4 for each cal· ler, plus S2 more for each member that attends the half-hour training session, according to Ann Johnston, Assistant Director of the Fund. 
"Prizes are awarded for the most pledges secured, the most dollars recieved, the single largest pledge and the first S 100 pledge," Johnston said. 
The winners are posted daily in the dining halls and the prizes have been donated mostly by nearby res­taurants. Also, each student is allowed to make one personal long· distance call. 
Programming Board plans agenda 
shown tomorrow and Saturday at 8 
p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at Carroll Hall. 
Gripe night Is scheduled for Sun· day, April 24. Students are en· couraged to phone in with complaints and suggestions. All gripes will be presented to the Saint Mary's Governance and Program­ming boards, where further action will be considered. The phone num· ber for gripe night will be posted In the dormitories. 
The board also is planning "Fun in the Sun," to be held May 4, from 2 
p.m to 5 p.m. at Haggar Center. The event will include music, food, a raffle and · weather permitting · several outdoor activities. 
Next years plans for the board in· dude Safety Awareness Week to be held Sept. 8-12. The topics dicussed will include self-defense, rape and date rape. 
The opera Evita will be coming to the College November 2. 
Committee formed for selection of ND president 
ByJOHN FLORY 
StaffReporter 
Although Notre Dame's academic 
council has formed an advisory com· 
mittee to consult with the Board of 
Trustees on the selection of a new 
University president, "nothing of 
any imminence" has yet developed 
in terms of a decision according to 
Thomas Carney, chairman of the 
Board of Trustees. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, cur­
rent University president, will be 
leaving Notre Dame in the spring of 
I987, having served as president 
since 19S2. 
Carney also is heading the 
nominating committee, which is 
soliciting recommendations from 
faculty members. 
The advisory committee includes 
Provost Timothy O'Meara, Francis 
Castellino, dean of the College of 
Science, Michael Loux, dean of the 
College of Arts and Letters, and 
Kathleen Mass-Weigert, assistant 
proffessional specialist in the Center 
for Social Concerns. 
While the Board of Trustees will 
cooperate with the advisory com· 
mittee, the final decision will be ren· 
dered by the Board. 
According to the bylaws of the University, Notre Dame's president must be a member of the Priests Society of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Indiana Province. 
Asked how the decision process was progressing, Carney said that the group has "just outlined the process." 
Carney aJso said that a final dis· closure of the name of the new Uni· verslty president will not be made until January or February 1987. 
The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 4 

Doonesbury asked to stop use of name 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Officials of Uni­
versal Press Syndicate told 
newspapers to remove from the 
comic strip Doonesbury the name of 
former state Sen. James R. Harris, the 
former director of the federal Office 
ofSurface Mining. 
Universal told papers carrying the 
strip Tuesday to delete Harris' name 
because Harris did not leave his 
position as director of the federal 
office "amidst charges of unethical 
behavior or criminal wrongdoing." 
Harris is the only person 
originally listed by the strip's author, 
Garry Trudeau, that Universal has 
deleted from the strips distributed 
to newspapers last week, The In­
dianapolis Star reported yesterday. 
The Star is running the strip this 
week, and deleted Harris' name. 
Three newspapers -the Los Angeles 
Times, the Farmington, N.M., Daily 
Times and the Omaha World-Herald 
-pulled the strip, saying the strip's 
accusations against Reagan's appoin­
tees was too sensitive. 
Harris, a Republican who now 
practices law in _pansville,_ w~. 

ClintEastwood 
Eastwood 
•
sworn 1n as city mayor 
Associated Press 
CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA, Calif. ­Actor Clint Eastwood began his debut performance as mayor on Tuesday, being sworn in during a 

named to head T9e. ,S4t:f.ace· milling brief ceremony before a street 
offic-e'in MQtth 1 9!h. He resigned in jammed with about 1,000 
1984. tourists and residents. 
•Before Harris was confirmed by Eastwood, who was elected the Senate, The Wall Street Journal with 72 percent ofthe ballots in a Allsodated Press won a Pulitzer Prize for his space enthusiasm," said Bass. "We had one reported that Harris had par­record voter turnout April 8, and science reporting in 1984. or two who wanted to think it over, ticipated in land deals with Amax wore a gray suit and red tie as his 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Or.e hundred Officials with the Journalist-in­and after thinking it over, accepted." Coal Co. and Peabody Coal Co. bet­mother and sister looked on from journalists, 64 of them from Space project released the names in He would not say which ofthe semi­ween 1978 and 1980. Harris and a the front row oftemporary bleac­newspapers and other publications an afternoon news conference. finalists hesitated before accepting. partner later sold parts of the land hers. Police cordoned off the and 36 broadcasters, were named The semifinalists face three more Writer Tom Wolfe, author of"The for a profit. street to traffic. yesterday as semifinalists in the selection panels and their space Right Stuff," a book about the begin­While serving in the Senate, Harris Eastwood defeated two-time process of selecting the first flight cannot be scheduled until the nings of the space program, was chairman of the Senate commit­incumbent Charlotte Townsend, reporter to ride the space shuttle. outcome of a presidential commis­withdrew his application because of tee responsible for strip-mining who opened the ceremony and 
Among the names on the list: Wal­sion's investigation of theJan. 28 ex­"a long-term" commitment. legislation and enforcement ofstrip­handed over the gavel to ter Cronkite, the retired CBS plosion ofChallenger. Among the well-known news mining laws. Eastwood after he and two other anchorman who is a special cor­Project spokesman Jack Bass said figures who said they applied but Harris denied at the time any im­new members of the five-person respondent for the network; As­yesterday that two of the semi­were not accepted were ABC white propriety or unethical conduct. city council were sworn in by the sociated Press aerospace writer Paul finalists expressed some reserva­House correspondent Sam A secretary for his law office at city clerk. Recer; and New York Times science tions briefly before accepting. Donaldson and NBC anchorman Evansville told the Star on Tuesday Eastwood, one of the world's writer John Noble Wilford, who "The general tone was Tom Brokaw. that Harris was vacationing in top box-office draws, has said he 
Florida and unavailable for com­will give his new S200-a-month, ment. The secretary said she did not 2-year job priority over his ac­believe Harris was aware he had ting, directing and producing
Students sue for better schooling 
been listed by the comic strip. career, although he will still Allsodated Press Judge Dennis Challeen said in his Challeen said the school owes the make films occasionally. He has ruling Monday that the students students the extra class time or Investigations by the FBI, the U.S. not made a movie in more than a WINONA, Minn.-The verdict is in received adequate education, but money because of 10 days when Office ofGovernment Ethics and the year. 
for nine students who sued their were entitled to either compensa­they had no teacher or an instructor U.S. Senate cleared Harris of any Eastwood, 55, had asked that vocational-technical school com­tion or extra instruction. who wasn't qualified to teach the wrongdoing. the swearing-in ceremony be plaining about poor instruction: A "The school did their best under course. Lee Salem, a spokesman for Uni­moved to the steps outside City judge says they are entitled to 10 ex­very unfortunate circumstances," "To me that's the best solution," versal, said Harris's name was Hall to accommodate friends, tra days in class or $62.50, but not Challeen said in an interview yester­he said. "If I give them all their deleted after an investigation he family and some ofthe 4,800 resi­the S2,0 11 they had sought. day. "But the students were short­money back and they get their conducted showed that Harris had dents of the one-square-mile 
The Winona Area Vocational­changed and, therefore, that's the credits back that's not fair.! think it's not left his position "under a cloud" village, plus requests from 150 
Technical Institute students said in reason for my ruling." a compromise." ofimpropriety. reporters and photographers. 
separate suits filed in small claims court that they had several instruc­tors in an auto body repair class after the first one quit. They contended the poor quality of their instruction meant they would have trouble get­tingjobs. 
Winona County District Court 
Corrections 
.Because of an editing error, a headline about the Saint Mary's Board of Governance in yesterday's Observer was incorrect. The Board of Goverance met last night. Be­cause of a reporting error, Sandy Cerimele's title was incorrect in the same story. She is the elections com­missioner. 
Because of an editing error, a headline about a House vote on Con­tra aid in yesterday's Observer was misleading. The House voted to ap­prove rules damaging to the Contra aid bill's chances offinal passage. 
Because of a reporting error, in­formation on the photo on page 3 in yesterday's Observer was incom­plete. The senior class also should have been mentioned as sponsor of the spinal cancer patient in the photograph. 
ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIQJ1S
' 

FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now.
CLUB REGISTRATION locations are chosen by lottery. 
Ail clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
Forms are now available for: 
l. Registration 
2. 
Funding 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 



Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS -APRIL ~8, 1986 



The Observer Thursday, April 1 7, 1986 -page 5 
Stalin's granddaughter returns from Russia 

APPholo 

On his guard 
An Italian para-military polinman guards the was strengthened in the wake of the U.S. attack on entrance to the Ifeat/quarters ofAllied Forces Sout­Libya Tuesday. hern Europe, a NATO base in Naples, Italy. Security 
Fast 
continuedfrom page I 
ground with the blacks. So the bis­hops there have to come on the line." 
To priests and ministers who "have joined the white army and are going with the troops who shoot the blacks," van Rensburg said to mini­ster to blacks as well as to whites. "I'm saying to them to withdraw from the army and be a witness." 
Van Rensburg said he addressed everyone present in saying, "If you're thinking about writing about continued ... investment in South 
FINDING AN APARTMENT IN MANHATTAN TAKES THE RIGHT EDUCATION 
Get afree copy of "Manhattan Moves"­the insider's guide to finding an affordable apartment in Manhattan. 
To welcome potential new residents to the city, and dispel some myths about housing in New York. we have published a book called "Manhattan Moves". It's the ultimate insider's guide to apartment hunting in the Big Apple. 
"Manhattan Moves" helps you set your sights on the right type of apartment and location. It takes you on atour of the city's neighborhoods, introduces you to the available housing, gives you vital facts about transportation, housing laws, renting, sharing, and much more. 
The book gives you inside advice on actually finding the apartment you've targeted. It helps you find the hottest listings, tells you how to canvas, and how to select abroker. 
Send for afree copy of "Manhattan Moves" today. It won't guarantee you aManhattan apart­ment, but 1t will definitely get you "moving" in the right direction. 
r--------------------------------1 
TO: MANHATTAN MOVES MILFORD MANAGEMENT, 
12n AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020 Send me acopy of "Manhattan Moves", The Insider's Guide to finding an Apartment 1n Manhattan-free without cost or obligation. 
Your ~arne-----------------------­
School-------------------------­
Address 
City------------State ________ Zip ____ 
Home Address------------------------­City State Zip ____ 
Phone No. Or Call Toll Free 1(800) 247-4041 
L--------------------------------~ 
Africa, don't." He said writings about investment are "putting the screws in our coffins, (they're) describing to us how to die. We don't want America telling us how to die, for if we are going to die, let us do it in the cause ofour liberation." 
Van Rensburg said Harper and Row soon is to release a book by Fat­her Oliver Williams that deals with continuing investments. "He per­sonally supports it," van Rensburg said. 
Williams, who was not present at the delivery of van Rensburg's state­ment, said the title of his work is "The Apartheid Crisis: How We Can Do justice in a Land of Violence." The final chapter is an ethical 
analysis of the South Mrican situa­. tion, Williams said. "In my judg­ment," said Williams, "it is moral for 
U.S. investment to continue in South Africa as long as the U.S. corpora­tions are advancing the welfare of blacks and fighting for the civil and political rights ofblacks. 
Williams was in South Africa last 
year. 
"I interviewed, I'd say, 100 
people. Blacks are fairly evenly 
divided on the question of divest­
ment," he said. 
Corporations who continue to work in South Africa, said van Rensburg, "are giving the nod to the Pretoria regime to continue" its human rights violations. 


Applications AvaHable---.. 
for------------------------~
the 1987 Dome_______. 
Photography Editor 
Copy Editor 
Section Editors 
Business Manager 
Applications In Student Activities Office (8:30-4:30) first floor Lafortune 
*applications due by 2pm, Monday April ~ at the Student Activities Office 
*EVERYONE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY* 
Pre-Weekend CelebrationI I LEE'S Ribsj Thurs., April 17th 
featuring The Rhythym Methods 
'The only campus band approved by the Pope' 
$2 cover charge $1 Molsons 
(211.0. required)

$1 Wine Coolers 
. 
Sponsored by Overseas Development Network 
Associated Press 
SAFFRON WALDEN, England ­
The 14-year-old A#rit:tidlri-bt'>r'h 
granddaughter of Josef Stalin 
returned to her Quaker school yes­
terday, tearfully embracing teachers 
and classmates and saying her mot­
her was sorry she made her move to 
the Soviet Union. 
"It's a very emotional moment. I 
didn't think I'd get back," said Olga 
Peters, in the assembly hall of the 
Friends' School in Saffron Walden, 
I 2 miles from Cambridge. 
She left the boarding school in Oc­tober 1984 when her mother, Svet­lana Alliluyeva, abruptly left her home in Cambridge and took Peters to the Soviet Union. 
Life in the nation her grandfather ruled for 29 years was strange for a girl raised in the United States, and from the outset she wanted to return to the school and friends she knew, Peters said. 
She spoke no Russian or Georgian, the language of Soviet Georgia where she and her mother lived, and she said she missed her native English. 
Also, her stepsister and stepbrot­her "were not supportive to me," she told reporters. "We didn't know what to say to each other." 
Peters said her mother "deeply regretted taking me away from school so suddenly without saying goodbye to anyone," and "she was really thrilled I was coming back." 
Butin general, she added, "It was a great experience and I don't regret any of it. ... It's not every kid that gets to see three different countries­three of the most important countries in the world." 
Peters, who first enrolled at the Friends' School in 1982, flew to Lon­don from Moscow on Tuesday, traveling on the Soviet passport she was given when she arrived in the 
f;oviet Union. 
She was brought to the school by two Soviet diplomats and walked into the assembly hall where teac­hers, pupils and a throng of reporters waited. 
Headmaster John Woods brought forward four girls and two teachers, all particular favorites of Peters. There were kisses and hugs, and Peters was in tears. 
Alliluyeva, who uses her mother's last name, defected to the West in 1967 and lived in the United States where she married architect Wil­liam Wesley Peters in 1970. Their daughter was born the next year, and the couple divorced in 1973. 
Alliluyeva later moved to Britain to give her daughter an English education. She took her daughter to the Soviet Union in October 1984, saying she had never been happy in the West and had been hounded by 
U.S. intelligence agents. She also said she wanted to be close to her two grown children from previous mar­riages. 
She has recently told reporters she also was free to leave the Soviet Union, and Peters' father said Al­liluyeva had told him she planned to move to Switzerland. 
Asked why her mother decided to return to the Soviet Union in 1984, Peters said, "We went there for the sake of the family. She wanted to save the family and ... I didn't want to hurt her." 

The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 6 
We weren't trying to assassinate Khadafy, says Reagan 
~ted Press 
WASHINGTON · The Reagan ad· ministration · asserting "we're not trying to assassinate" Moammar Khadafy · said yesterday that the ~merican raid on libya could have been avoided ifthe Soviet Union had heeded requests to "restrain the libyans" from anti-American ter· rorism. 
Confronted with diplomatic criticism ofthe raids, the administra· tion said that ifthe Soviets had acted on its pleas, authorities might have been able to foil the bombing of a West Berlin discotheque, which killed an American serviceman and a Turkish woman and wounded some 200others. 
I State Department spokesman Ber· 
I 
nard Kalb said the Soviets also were 
r 
I warned that supplying SA·S missiles might encourage Khadafy to "take risks which would force us to respond. This in fact turned out to be the case." Questions also were raised by reports of street fighting in Tripoli near Khadafy's headquarters. White House deputy press secretary Larry Speakes said he had no information about whether a coup was at· tempted, and libyan officials in Tripoli insisted that the firings were aimed at a U.S. reconnaissance plane. A congressional source said U.S. officials thought the gunfire ind· icated that Khadafy foes were "back 
Khadafy 
continuedfrom page I 
two sons, aged four and three-and­
a-half, were seriously injured. 
Khadafy said Reagan "should be 
put on trial as a war criminal and 
murderer ofchildren." 
libya had not issued orders to 
murder anyone, Khadafy said, al­
luding to U.S. allegations that the 
libyan government plotted the 
bombing of a Berlin nightclub 
April 5 in which a U.S. soldier was 
killed and 63 other Americans 
were injured. 
"Even those who carried out 
operations in Europe are unknown 
persons," he said. "Who knows 
them? perhaps the American intel· 
ligence carried out these opera­
tions. Possibly a Palestinian carried 
them out. Anyone else could have 
carried out these operations." 
The Arab leader, identified as a 
financial and political supporter of 
many guerrilla groups worldwide, 
said he would not cease those ac­
tivities. 
"We will not abandon our incite· 
ment of popular revolution, 
whatever raids they carry out," he 
said. 
Khadafy's long public absence after the American attack touched off a flood of rumors around the world· that he had left the country, had been wounded, or was dead. It could not be immediately determined whether his TV ap· pearance was live or taped, but his discussion of the raid proved he had survived it. 
After the 21-minute speech, demonstrations broke out in the streets of Tripoli and drivers honked their horns, apparently in joy over their leader's speech. 
Tripoli has been blacked out since Tuesday's bombing. lights around the hotel, in the port, and along the coast flashed back on after the speech. 
Earlier yesterday, the libyan state radio angrily called again for Arab nations to attack U.S. targets. 
"Kill the Americans, civilian and military, wherever you may find them! ... kill him (Reagan) after you kill his children in front of him," it said. 
In Beirut, Lebanon, the Abu Nidal organization, the most feared Palestinian terror group, issued a statement warning that U.S. institu· tions "will be the target of our retaliatory blows." 
in town," but added, "They really don't know who's in control of what" in libya. 
Meanwhile, following the shoot· ing of a U.S. embassy employee in Khartoum, Sudan, the State Depart· ment yesterday said it planned to withdraw large numbers of Americans, mostly dependents of diplomats, from that country. It acted out ofconcern over the shoot· ing and an influx of Libyans into Sudan. 
Because of what a State Depart· ment official called a "fluid situa· tion," in Khartoum, officials also made plans for a reduction in the size of the official American com· munity in the city. 
The official, speaking on condi· tion his name not be used, said there were concerns about the security of American women and children in the cityand a general beliefthat they should leave the country. He said it was a situation of "taking regular flights out" not a question ofmilitary evacuation. 
Meanwhile, Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger said that damage to the French Embassy and nearby residences in Tripoli may have been caused by a bomb from an Air Force F· 111 that failed to return from the attacks on two libyan cities. 
Adm. William Crowe, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the search for the two missing crewmen had been called offafter Navy planes and ships failed to find any trace of them or their plane. 
"It could have come from the plane that is missing," Weinberger said in Boston, where he went to deliver two speeches. "We just don't have any idea. The simple correct answer is, we don't know how that (damage) occurred. 
"But it's a mile away from any of the target areas and it was specifi· cally rejected as a target even though there's a large intelligence building right next to the French embassy." 
Pentagon sources said officials are investigating the possibility that the F-111 bomber dropped a bomb off· target after being hit by anti-aircraft fire. 
The sources, speaking on condi· tion they not be identified, also dis· closed that Air Force and Navy bombers dropped 100 tons of high· explosive bombs in the raids on two libyan cities. 
In a letter to Congress made public yesterday, President Reagan said the bombing strikes were con· ducted within the exercise of the right of self-defense under the United Nations Charter. 
"This necessary and appropriate action was a pre-emptive strike, directed against the libyan terrorist infrastructure and designed to deter acts of terrorism by Libya, such as the libyan-ordered bombing of a 
DEAN·s 
presents thefinest 
,....--------=tin live entertainment Quest Band with AppearingFri. 
Dr. Rock
through Sun. High Energy Music live DJ Thurs. No Cover Restaurant opensfor dinner3PM Prime Rib 7.95 Daily 
On V.S. 31 33 Niles. Michigan Across the streetfrom Pbza Hut 
...... CHRf"''' S~..... 
···~·· 
...... 
ICE CREAM 
THE SECOND ANNUAL CHRIS' ICE CREAM EATING CONTEST IS STARTING SOON!!! 
····························41e
e Don't miss tomorrow's paper for more details 
,. ., 
We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS coatact.,gla••ee ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF Show yoarI.D. and receive 20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS &cladlagSpeclaa. 
• ProfessiooalVJSion
ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400
2n-1161 
Martin's Shopping
South of U.S. 23 
Center ~
"' 

discotheque in West Berlin on April 5," Reagan added. 
He said that "should Libyan­sponsored terrorist attacks against United States citizens not cease, we will take appropriate measures necessary to protect United States citizens in the exercise of our right ofself-defense." 
The president said his letter was intended to inform Congress about the matter "consistent with the War Powers Resolution." In effect, Reagan complied with the provi· sions of the resolution without ack· nowledging its validity. He and other presidents have maintained it 
is  an  unconstitutional  encroach­ 
ment on their powers.  
Richard  Murphy,  assistant  

secretary of state for Near East af. fairs, during an appearance before a House Foreign Affairs subcommit­tee, said the administration was trying to teach Khadafy a lesson. 
"We're not trying to assassinate Col. Khadafy," he said. "We're not trying to pick for the Libyan people the leadership that they ought to have. That's not going to be our choice." 
State Department spokesman Ber· nard Kalb said the United States had informed the Soviet Union more than a week before the April 5 dis· cotheque bombing in Berlin that libya was planning to undertake some act in that city. 
"We urged the Soviets and East Germans to restrain the Libyans," Kalb said. "Had they done so, this entire cycle of events would have been avoided. 
"We have on several occasions ex­plicitly offered to consult with the Soviet Union on the question of libyan support for terrorist ac· tivities," Kalb said. "They have not taken us up." 
Reacting to the U.S. bombing, the Soviets on Tuesday canceled a meeting next month between Secretary of State George Shultz and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Schevardnadze to plan for a super­power summit. 
The administration, reacting to the shooting of the American em­bassy technician in Khartoum and a missile attack on a U.S. Coast Guard station 1SO miles from libya, sought to dispel suggestions that the United States would retaliate with force for every instance of terrorism. 
"In the war on terrorism, you have to have a general policy and imple· ment it tactically, case-by-case, as you go along," said Shultz. "The United States will use its military power under certain cir· cumstances." 
The embassy in Khartoum was one of 30 to 35 U.S. diplomatic out­posts around the world targeted by Khadafy for attack, the official said. 

The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 

The Wav of the Cross 
Accordin{to the Gospel of Mark 
Adaptation and Lyrics by 
Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19and24,25,26 
General Admission $4 Group rates available Call (219) 239-5957 

.• ~,..~
of 20% Discount· not including-sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C.. Students 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 

Thursday, April 1 7, 1986 · page 7
Accent 
SMC humanistic studies unique in nation 
KIMBERLY TRENNER In 1956, with the blessings of terms of past ones, and how the features writer Dawson and the encouragement of past, transformed, is alive in the former Saint Mary's president, Sister present. This way of thinking is his 
At Saint Mary's there is a unique Madeleva, Schlesinger's pilot legacy to me and, I believe, to all his .l"lmajor that is unlike any other project was put to the test. 14 stu­students. That is why I call him the major program offered in the dents were enrolled in that first "Father of my mind." t:ountry. The humanistic studies class of humanistic studies, or Lucinda Levene Schomisch, a departmt·nt, formerly known as the "Bust" majors, with Schlesinger 1975 graduate of the Hust depart­Christian culture department, was teaching almost all of the courses ment and current manager of train­creatt·d 30 years ago by the work of himself. ing services for an industrial one man. Bruno Schlesinger. council, said in her 1985 Courier
Then, as now, Schlesinger em­
magazine article,"...humanistic
phasized class discussion, teaching

Austrian-born Schlesinger first studies provides excellent prepara­
students how to "think and com­

came to South Bend during the late tion for'B.t;tting ahead' in the
municate." Unlike other liberal arts

19·i0s to fulfill a graduate scholar­workplace. 'Graduates ha':e what 
programs, Schlesinger's program

ship and to complete his doctoral employees value most: general
fuses th\:' sh•dy of the "great books" 

studit·s in history and political knowlege, versatility and good
such as the works of Augustine,

science at Notre Dame. While communication skills. I know these
Dante, Erasmus, Swift, Burke, Ibsen 

studying and working as a teacher's strengths are crucial in my career.
and Camus, with a historic orienta­

assistant at Notre Dame, Schlesinger The technical expertise I have
tion. "It is very important to have a

becamt· aware of a position open in acquired is secondary to my
fusion of the two," said Schlesinger.

the Saint Mary's history department. abilities to think, speak and write,
By placing books in a historical

Seizing the opportunity, Schlesinger each of which was fine-tuned in
context, Schlesinger believes stu­

took tht· position. Bruno's class."
dents are able to derive greater 
"Our great drawback is that the
meaning and understanding from 

Whik working for the history program doesn't lead immediately
them. 

dt·part ment as a professor of art into any kind of breadwinning history and westt·rn civilization. Although Schlesinger admits the position, such as in accounting, Schlt·singer bt·gan devising an program has gone through some 
which puts you in a set slot," said t·ducational program based on the hard ti rues because of trends Schlesinger. works of British historian Chris top-toward specialization and job 
But there are many career oppor­tunities available to a Hust graduate. Graduates have gone on to careers in law, teaching, journalism, busi­ness, banking, editorial work, social work, health and medicine. "We For his outstanding academic Saint Mary's, Schlesinger has served have an excellent job record," said achievement, Schlesinger recently on many committees, including the Schlesinger. "This shows that the received the honor ofSaint Mary's President's Search Committee and humanities do not kill you off, that first endowed faculty chair, made also the Concert and Lecture series. the program can hold its own in a possible by the National Endow­He was also the first faculty world that is much more career­ment for the Humanities Challenge representative on the Saint Mary's oriented." Grant. The grant, a sum of Board of Regents. In 195H he was 
Since the days of Bruno's "one 5375,000, was given in recognition the first to receive the Spes lJnica man show," the department has of Saint Mary's strength in the Award, given each year for out­increased its size in both faculty humanities. It will be used to insure standing teaching and service. members and students, as well as in the continuing quality of the Described by one former student the classes available. Schlesinger is humanities program and to fund as "one of the most revered and no longer the program's sole per­faculty development within the colorful figures at Saint Mary's," Dr. petrator. In the future, Schlesinger program. Schlesinger has come to be admired believes the program he originated Schlesinger's commitment to the and respected by many. Both his will continue on its successful path. betterment ofSaint Mary's is evi­work and his dedication to the "I think that it is in good hands. It dent in areas other than the college have made Saint Mary's a should continue to work," he said. academic realm. During his years at richer place. 
Nobel laureate at ND 
MARY REYNOLDS already being produced artificially, people who are doing this kind of features writer he said. work are very much aware of the possible problems that could arise, DNA research will also have a 
w:
and so they are proceeding slowly thin the next year, a genetic profound impact on agriculture by 
and trying to build up the founda­defect will be treated for the creating plants that are hardier in 
tion of research that's needed in first time, according to Nobel prize 
order to successfully use such recipient Marshall Nirenberg. tools." 
Nirenberg, who received the Nobel prize in 1968,lectured last Nirenberg said that he sees no week at Notre Dame. moral or theological problems with 
this type of research. "I see a lot of 
The Observer/Paul Kramer "Probably within the next year or good things that can come out of so a genetic defect will be treated this technology, because if you have for the first time by inserting DNA someone who is really sick and
orientation among students, today correspondent to the defective suffering because ofa genetic
her Dawson. "With a good deal of 
the program is more popular than gene into the cell, the hope being disease, and you have the possibilityhis advice I set up the program," ever. "We have held our own in that that will cure this genetic ofaffecting a cure for that in­said Schlesinger. 
spite of a strong anti-liberal arts disease. It hasn't been done yet with dividual and helping that individual
With a strong belief that "too trend in modern colleges," said people. It's been done with tissue by this type of treatment. I would
much specialization on an under­Schlesinger. Presently only one culture cells and with mice, but I like to think that it's good to al­
graduate level does not nourish the other college, a school in Texas, is think it will be done with people for leviate suffering and it's good to
mind," Schlesinger set up an in­in the process ofdevising a program the first time within a year or so," know enough to be able to help
tegrated curricular program along similar to the one at Saint Mary's. Nirenberg said. He did not name a treat someone who has a medical
historical cultural lines. In the 
specific disease. Nobel/aureate Marshall Nirenberg problem with a new form of treat­
program, students are introduced Graduates of the Hust depart­ment," said Nirenberg.
to "various aspects of Western ment praise the traditional and 

civilization, with history, literature, art. theology and philosophy vit-wed as interrelated factors." The program also examines the extent to which Christianity has shaped social institutions and patterns of thought in Western society, as well as selected aspects of non-Western and pre-Christian societies. 
practical value of the program. A graduate from the class of 1960, Patricia Ferris McGinn, wrote of Schlesinger in a 1982 issue of Courier magazine, "Bruno taught me how to make connections, to see how one set of values and pat­terns interacts with one another, how present realities make sense in 
"But that's just the beginning," said Nirenberg. "For the first time gene-replacement therapy will be available, and that's very exciting." 
Nirenberg said that another area which benefits from the work being done is the pharmaceutical area. Insulin and growth hormones are adverse conditions and by altering plants such as corn to increase their nutritional value, according to Nirenberg. 

When asked about the fears sur­rounding the safety ofgenetic research, Nirenberg said, "The 
"Knowledge can be used for good, and it can be used for bad. It depends upon how it's used. I think that knowledge is a tremendous tool for mankind that can be used for great good. It can also be misused," said Nirenberg. "Society must decide what society wants." 
---· -­

~i~~~_()__i_ll___t___________________
Th-ur-sd-ay_,Ap_ri_ll-7,_19-86--p-ag--eS 
Professor Esch on bee and cricket behavior 
Professor Harold Esch is a world­renowned expert in the study ofthe behavior and the neurobiology of social insects. Aspects of his research were sumarized recently byFranzHuberand]ohn Thorson in the article, "Cricket Autotory Communica­tion" which appeared in the December issue ofScientific American. It is this work which he describes below. Locally, he has achieved distinction ofquite a different sort-he is the perenial choice ofbiologists at Notre Dame to play Santa Claus at the department's Christmas party. (Mrs. Santa Claus at that party is a well-known figure in the teaching ofGeneral Biology 201/202). 
John Kozak something different 
My life in biology began as a physics major at the University of Bonn. One summer I worked as student assistant in the University's Bee Research Laboratory where a former stu­dent of Karl von Frisch tried to measure the movements of dancing bees. I designed a sys­tem of tiny magnets and coils. With this setup we could follow the bee's movements ac­curately. Von Frisch had made similar at­tempts using film cameras without success. He persuaded me to switch from physics to biology. My scientific work has related to bees ever since, even when l investigated crickets. 
I was first trained as a behaviorist. Karl von Frisch, my doctoral advisor at the Universities ofWuerzburg and Munich (Germany), simply observed the actions of animals. His methods were not very sophisticated. He laid down what he saw, and then tried to find plausible explanations for his observations. The ex­planations were tested in simple, but often in­genious experiements. He was fascinated by honey bees and their social life. A great part of a bee's time is dedicated to "dancing." By fin; ding the purpose of dance behavior, von Frisch had discovered the now famous "bee language": Scout bees in search of food or a new home return from their excursions and report distance, direction, and quality of their finds to their hivemates. Aristotle saw the bee dances 2000 years ago. But he did not under­stand their purpose. 
I studied the bee language in my doctoral work with the intention to make artificial bees who could talk to their hivemates. Soon I dis­covered that bees produce all kinds ofsounds while dancing. Thus the linguistic techniques in "bee language" and human speech could be similar. At an impasse over the question whet­her dance movements or sounds are the cru­cial part, von Frisch and I decided to see what other kinds of bees do. At least 20,000 dif­ferent species can be studied today. Most of the interesting relatives ofour honey bees live in the tropics, for instance in Brazil, where about 200 of the cloest relatives can be found. So I went to Brazil and tried to find out how these bees live and communicate. The project started in Munich and continued when I came to the University of Notre Dame in 1964. My wife and I spent many summers searching the countryside ofnorthern or southern Brazil for stingless bees. When we found a nest, we moved it into a glass observation hive and studied the communication. No other species performs dances. Most of them use sounds. Sound is the only common element in the "language" ofall social bees. It is probably the crucial element in communication. 
When one focuses on a narrow part ofa be­havior pattern in an animal for a longer time, one begins to wonder about its role in the animal's life. One is tempted to ask the animal for an answer. But answers come only in in­direct ways through experimentation. 
I wanted to know which of the various sounds of a "speaking" bee are actually per­ceived by a hivemate? Where does the per­ceived "message" go? What does the animal 
· do with it? All answers invariably start with an understanding of the hearing mechanism. Which part of the sound is coded into nerve pulses? (This must be the important part.) Where do these pulses travel? How are they changed into actions? 
Neurobiologists answer similar questions by pushing electrolyte filled glass pipettes of a very small diameter into the nerves. Electrical pulses pivcked up by the elecytrodes are amplified and recorded. The relationship bet­ween sound and nerve pulses tells what an animal really hears. 
Bees are very small creatures. Their ears and nerves are smaller still. It is not easy to push electrodes into a small animal and ex­pect sensible results when one has no idea what kind ofsignals might appear. This is even more difficult, if one did not learn the neces­sary methods. I needed training in neurobiol­ogy. 
With my desire to find what bees actually hear and the necessity to learn how to do it, Franz Huber's institute in Seewiesen seemed a good place to go. Huber, an older fellow graduate student at the University of Munich, had specialized in neurobiology. His work in on crickets and is highly regarded by neurobiologists and behaviorists. When the legendary Konrad Lorenz retired from the 
Max-Planck-Institute for Behavioral Sciences at Seeqiesen near Munich in Germany, Huber became his successor and he could furnish his laboratory according to his wishes. 
Huber began his work by recording signals from the center ofthe cricket brain ofcrickets exposed to calls of other crickets. Slowly he worked his way tot he ears. A cricket's ears are in its legs. But Huber intentionally avoided in­vestigating the function of the cricket's ear. The nerve fibers between ears and nervous system are very small. He regarded recording from them an impossible task. 
Huber invided me to Seewiesen to come and study this problem. We agreed that it was best to first attempt a recording from the ears of crickets Everything in crickets is bigger than in bees. 
I took a sabbatical leave from the University of Notre Dame in 1978 and worked eight months in Huber's laboratory. For three weeks I made futile attempts to record electri­cal pulses in response to acoustic signals played to my experimental animals. Then I suddenly succeeded. My microelectrode found and penetrated a tiny fiber connecting· ear and body. The procedure became routine in a few days. Responses of the ear to various parts of the sound spectrum could be studied. Very soon we knew exactly what crickets hear. Some of the results were surprising, ot­hers had been suspected, but coud not be con­firmed by earler researchers. 
Our kind of music would not appeal to crickets. Only distinct frequencies are per­ceived. If the correct tone is struck, someth­ing is sensed, otherwise the environment seems to be silent. Thus for a cricket a Mozart Sonata consists of a tone here and there. But songs ofother crickets are exciting. 

Males sing with a very definite pitch. This song serves the sole purpose of attracting females, even if it takes weeks to be successful. The female's ear is made to hear the song. Fighting males make threatening calls ofa dif­ferent frequency. The ears are also tuned to threatening calls. Courtship itselfrequires still another song ofa different pitch. Naturally the ears can hear that well. Males also hear their own songs. A rival singing nearby can thus be detected and chased away. Crickets can only hear what they are supposed to: noise made by fellow crickets conveying a message. 
My studies also revealed that the ear of crickets can gauge the distance of singing_ males well. Songs consists of sound bursts. Each burst leads to a number of electrical pulses in the ear of the receiver. This number depends strictly on sound intensity, and by that on the distance of the sound source. All males sing equally loud. A female's ear might count one pulse per burst ifthe male is twenty feet away. This number increases to eight when he is right next to her. In her search for a male, a female has just to keep the number of pulses per sound increasing. Not a very romantic task. 
I learned more during the neurobiological studies. While recording from a neuron with a glass pipette, one can inject dye at the same time. This dye makes the neuron visible under a microscope. With some endurance one can not only figure out what neurons do, but one can also lay out their "circuit diagrams". One can find out where they come from and where they go. This is a bit step towards an under­standing of nervous system functions. 
The cricket's acoustic world lies open to us. It took some time to work out the important details. In course of these studies I became a neurobiologist. Now I have to go back to bees. I am sure that some day I will hit a bee's acous­tic nerve and find out what she hears. 
Spring's great promise: baseball is back 
Put me in, Coach 
I'm ready to play, today 
Put me in, Coach 
I'm ready to play, today 
Look at me, gotta be 
Centerfield 
From Philadelphia to Los Angeles, from Houston to Minneapolis it is time once more for the rites ofspring. 
Eric M. Bergamo here's to future days 
From the ivy-covered outfield fence of venerable Wrigley Field, truly the last bastion of daylight baseball, to Yankee Stadium, the house that Ruth built, hope springs eternal for 28 teams of a World Series dream so many months away. Athletes limber their arms and ready thier swings in expectation ofthe call to "play ball!" 
You know it truly is spring when baseball returns. 
It maybe 
It could be 
It is! Holy cowl 
Homerun! 
Hany Garay 
The fans return to the parks and stadiums, dormant for so many months. The sounds of organ music reaches the ear. The fields are readied for the players to take their positions. The first pitches are thrown, the national an­them is played, the teams are announced. And then it begins and with it the people come out of their winter hibernation and into the warmth ofspring. 
It's not over till it's over Yogi Berra 
The superstars take to the fields to exhibit their wares to the eager fans who have come out to see them play: the hustle of Pete Rose; the blazing fastball of "Doctor K," Dwight Gooden; the fielding magic ofOzzie Smith; the speed of Rickey Henderson and the consis­tancy of Don Mattingly; the power of George Brett; the golden glove of Ryne Sandberg. There will be rookies trying to earn their place among the veterans and veterans trying to rekindle the magic once more. 
There will be questions lObe answered this 
season. Will Lou Pinella survive the dose 
scrutiny ofGeorge Stienbrenner and finish the 
season the way he began it, as manager of the 
New York Yankees? Will the Kansas City 
Royals be able to repeat as World Series 
Champions? Who will be the hot rookie this 
season? Who will be the All-Stars, how many 
strikeouts will Gooden throw this season, can 
the Cubs win (miracle of miracles) the NL 
East once more? Only the season can tell. 
But it is baseball season once more. Time 
for home runs and close calls at the plate. 
Time for dazzling double plays and embarass­
ing errors. Time for dutch singles when the 
bases are loaded in the bottom of the ninth 
and diving catches that kill rallies. Time for 
managers arguing with umpires over close 
calls and being thrown out of the game. Time 
for curveballs and forkballs. Time for stolen 
bases and suicide squeeze plays. It is time for 
fun and excitement. It is time for baseball. 
Got a beat up gloz,e, 
a homemade bat 

and a brand newpair ofshoes 
You know I think it's time 
to gil'e this game a ride 
just to hit the ball 
and touch them all 
A moment in the sun 
Crack! It's a-gone 

andyou can tell that onegoodbye 
Eric M. Bergamo is a sophomore interna­tional relations major at Notre Dame and a regular Viewpoint columnist. He is also a Chicago Cubs fan. 
Quote of the day 
"But then they sent me away to teach me how to be sen­sible, logical, responsible, practical. There are times when ... the questions run too deep, for such a simple man ...I know it sounds ab­surd, but please tell me who I am." 
Supertramp "The Logical Song"(1979) 

Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

-~-------~ 
"ievvp.~o_i~n_t~--------------------------------------------Th_u_r_sd_a_y_,A_p_n_·I_I7_,_I_9_B6_-_P_a_ge__9 
P.O. BoxQ 

'Fatherland' memorial insults Christianity 
Dear Editor: 
"Pro !'atria et Pace": these are the words that appear on the west face of the war memorial. Not many on campus actually realize what these words mean -even after they have been translated. "For Fatherland and Peace." Bear in mind what Hitler did in the name of "Das Vaterland." The monument is glorifying the Vietnam, Korean and Second World Wars. To say that the memorial is there "to honor the Notre Dame men killed in those wars." (Donald Dedrick. The Observer, April 
I I ) is nothing short of a complete lie. The in­st:ription on the memorial specifically states that tht· three wars were fought for the father­land and peace. making no reference to any war dead, whether alumni or otherwise. 
I think that even though many people ac­cept the fact that war is inevitable there is no reason for its justifications to be glorified on a self-proclaimed Catholic campus. Wasn't it Jesus who repeatt·d Moses' commandments? Spedtkally, he said that we shall not kill and that we shall love our neighbor as ourselves. What did he mean? Is there really any doubt? I feel that there is none. Jesus meant precisely what he said. Yt·t those responsible for this monumt·nt would appear to have forgotten his words. 
But let us examine the meaning of the phrast·: "for fatht·rland and peace." What it sars to me is that one can justify the killing of another human being in terms of peace and the abstrat·t notion ofa country. Let us look at each of these disguises for murder carefully. To say that murder is justifiable in terms of peace must be, to any rational thinker, a straightforward contradiction. As is the no­tion that this perceived law of peace is greater than God's law as given to us by Christ. Going to war in the name of peace is clearly not pos· sible-but it is a nice cliche. 
But now to the idea of going to war for the fatht·rland. Apart from the implication that the fatherland is also greater than God there is a mort· st·rious probkm with this justification in the 1.:ontext of Roman Catholicism. What is it in the fatherland that justifies taking the life ofanother man? It appears w me that the main asst·ts of this fatherland are money, property and powt·r. When these things are placed above God I fed that Roman Catholicism has stooped toil<; lowest point. 
And ret, there it stands, in stark contrast with its surroundings. The war memorial is a disgusting insult to everyone who truly proft-sses a beliefin Christ. The administration ·through this monument-is turning Catholic faith on its head and making a mockery of the tt·at·hings ofChrist. Jesus came with a message of pt·ace and in his name many people go to war-it is a lie and a disgrace. It is one thing to honor war dt·ad but quite another to erect the 
monument sitting between the Library and 
the Huddle. 
It has been said that I have been too hasty to condemn the memorial -"It's not finished yet," they tell me. But I beg to differ. I am of the opinion that even if the names ofall ofthe alumni war fatalities were listed on a plaque in front of the monument the memorial would still have an overwhelming air of glorifying war. But if the monument was genuinely in­tended to honor war dead then I feel com­pelled to point out that the original inscriptions are as mysterious as "ODOP!", and that the monument should be torn down and replaced with something less offensive to the teachings of Christ. 
I feel that the entire student body would benefit from hearing the administration's position on war and on this memorial being justified in terms of the peace of Christ. It is important to bear in mind that war is the greatest act of vandalism known to man. I dis­approve of every act of vandalism. People try to put me down by saying that I am a naive idealist. My answer is simple, for wouldn't Christ have been considered th1: same if he were alive today? I believe wholeheartedly in Uis message, and this explicitly forbids war becauseit forbids killing. In order to establish whether a certain act is Christian or not is easy if one asks oneself "Would Christ do this?" Everything I know about Christ tells me that he would not under any circumstances ap­prove of war. Can you picture Christ with an M-I6? If you can, I think you have missed his point. 
Let me summarize by saying that, although I disapprove of all wars because of my style of belief many are able to conceive of a just war in the context of their religion. But I feel very strongly that to attempt to justify war by declaring that it is for peace and the fatherland is an effort doomed to failure, for these reasons are blasphemous. There may be such a thing as a just war for some people but it is not right merely because it is for the father­land and peace. 
Et,anSmytb 
Notre Dame student 
Graffiti on memorial a 'disgraceful act' 
Dear Editor: 
I have not been a particular admirer of the design of the new memorial to Notre Dame's war dead, but I was simply dumbfounded when I saw that someone had spray-painted graffiti on the monument. What a disgraceful act it is to disfigure a memorial to those young people who died in World War II, the Korean War and in Vietnam. About the vandals and their graffiti. I think St. Paul's words fit: "Their glory is their shame." 



The Observer 
P. 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ot the Univer· sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Salllt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ot the administration ot either institution. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opin1on ot a majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries. letters and the lnstde Column present the views of their authors. Column space IS available to all members ot the community and the tree expression ot varying opintons on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Notre Dame is overdue for a good revolution 
DearEditor: 

And so it seems that everything changes. I 
just ran into an old friend who spent her 
spring vacation at Berkeley rebuilding the 
shanties which the police tor.;:: down in a ra­
tional act to show who's boss. 

I guess there's always a revolution of some 
sort. 

The earth revolves around the sun, though 
it rotates on its axis. It makes one revolution 
each year. Kind of scary, at least one revolu­
tion each year on earth. 
Revolution number nine. 

Mao did one a few years ago but now they don't like him. He's better off dead? The In­dustrial Revolution involved this Bic Biro pen with which I'm writing. The American Revolution, the French Revolution, the Bol­shevik Revolution, the Cream Puff War -all revolutions for worthy causes. Worthy at the time and in some cases still worthy. 
I read that the Phillipines just had a small kind ofrevolution-at least that's how I look at it. 
I remember a Whisky Revolution of some sort in Colonial America, and in my small corner of New York state, the Tanners revolted against their employers -I guess a strike wouldn't work. 
Every Christmas the television, the mecca of morons, presents a revolutionary way of peeling potatoes or ridding the home of nasty odors. 
Revolutions, Evolutions, Darwins, Robespierres. A mouthful. Apartheid, Representation, Prolctariets, Sun King's Sons. Worthy causes. 
So when's Notre Dame's revolution? 
Cusfl,nie's advice helps 'chasten sinful souls' 
~r.../i.f4Jpr: 

Since reading Shirley CushnJs::t..Mar~l\ T9 
letter entitled "TeadHnjf~etMH•~iff'IAp­
pears to Condone it," I have finally seen the 
light. Hallelujah! Thank you, Cushnie, for 
clearing my eyes ofthe muck ofsin. How blind 
I was not to recognize the heinous evil ofcon­
traception. If not for the transformation your 
letter wrougllt within me, I would surely 
spend eternity shackled with the chains of my 
affliction, rotting in the depths ofiniquity. 
Now that I have been informed, I feel I 
know all there is to know. God is no longer a 
mystery to me. I used to think that morals 
should be considered and evaluated, not 
blindly accepted. But who needs you, Socrates? ... you damned commie! After all, since the Pope and Cushnie are both infallible, there's no need to think for ourselves. And we certainly do without information that leads our flock closer to the evil of contraception. The fact that our strength lies in ignorance of these dreaded implements reminds us of a charming book by George Orwell which describes "a beautiful new world" made pos­sible by mindless submission. 
Fellow fools, reckon the truth of Cushnie's words. May we all shed the filth ofour wicked­ness and chasten our sinful souls. Let us trans­form the den of lust that is Saint Mary's and Notre Dame into a stronghold ofsanctity. Hal­lelujah! 
Ster1e Dempsey GeorgeCota Dillon Hall 

Irish seniors provided four memorable years 
DearEditor: 
We want to express our gratitude for the four memorable years that the basketball team provided us, in particular Kenny Barlow, Jim Dolan, Tim Kempton andJoseph Price. 
In our four years here, we have witnessed the growth and development of the Notre Dame basketball program to one of the finest in the country. We have seen the dramatic comeback against Marquette freshman year, the upset victory over Maryland and the NIT Championship game sophomore year, the defeat of UCLA at Pauley and the emergence of David Rivers junior year, and the top ten ranking senior year. Even though we may have lost in the NCAA tournament, in our hearts we won it all. 
As graduating seruors, we will always cherish the memories of the basketball team and the players that have always been stu­
Thomas P. Lanciault Keenan Hall 

dents  first and basketball  players  second.  
Thanks.  
Gary Cooper, K.C. Cutum  

Tony Del Castillo, Greg hhnnan Dat'e Epping, George Tong Car•anaugh Hall 
Correction 
Because of an uncorrected error by the syndicators of Doonesbury, the April 16, l9H6, rekase of Doonesbury referred to James M. Harris in the context of Reagan ad­ministration officials "who left office amidst charges of unethical be­havior or criminal wrongdoing." Harris should not have been on that list. 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief . ..... . Managing Editor. .... . Viewpoint Editor.. ... . Sports Editor . .. . Accent Editor. ... . Saint Mary's Editor... . Executive News Editor. News Editor .. News Editor . 

......... Joe Murphy  Business Manager  ......... Eric Scheuermann  
........ Kevin Becker  Controller. . . . . . .  . ... Alex VonderHaar  
.... Scott Bearby  Production Manager.  . ......... Chris Bowler  
. Dennis Corrigan  Photography Manager. . . . . . . . .  james Carroll  
.... Mary Jacoby  Advertising Manager.  . ..... Anne M.Culligan  
..... Margie Kersten  Photography Manager. .......... Drew Sandier  
...... Frank Lipo  Systems Manager . ............ David Thornton  
..... Tripp Baltz  Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt  
. . Mark Pankowski  

Founded November 3,1966 
j ' 
' 
J 
I 
• 
I 
The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The interhall floor hockeychampionship was captured by Grace Hall as a result of their 2-1 victory over Cavanaugh last night in a conttaversial, rough game despite the no­checking rule. Sam Dempsey of Grace had two goals while Mark O'Sullivan scoredfor Cavanaugh. Both Grace goalie TonyJordan and Cavanaugh goalie Chris Sullivan gave great performances. -The Ob­server 
A Bengal Bouts Banquetwill be held today at St. Hedwigs Church. Semi-formal attire is requested. For more informa­tion call Kevin O'Shea at 283-3182 or Tom Newell at 283-4115.-The Observer 
The ND-SMC gymnastics teamwill not hold practice tomorrow but a banquet will be held on Saturday. For more information call Maureen Durkin at 284-5411.-The Observer 
Dancin' Irish tryoutswill be held tomorrow from 6 to 9 p.m. with the final cut to be made Sunday, April 20, from 3 to 6 
p.m. in ACC gym 2. All tryouts and clinics are open to the public. For more information call Sue Novak at 283-3484.-The Observer 
The California Angels defeated the Seattle Mariners 4-0 last night as right-hander Ron Romanick lost his no-hit bid on Ivan Calderon's two-out single in the sixth inning and settled for a two-hit shutout. Romanick, 2-0, issued four walks but no hits until Calderon's broken-bat single through the shortstop hole. Romenick wound up the first two-hitter ofhis career with five walks and six strikeouts. The loss went to Milt Wilcox, now 0-2. ­
AssociatedPress 

Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 10 
Rainy Bookstore Results 
Boobtore Tourn11ment 
Ynterdlly'e Rnulte 

Step•n 1 Spiders EatTheir Mates over Steer, Queer & a 6 Pack of Beer by 15 Tylenol, Challenger & 3 Other Deadly Capsules over Breakfast Heads by 12 
Step•n 2 The Expendables over 4 Quarter Pounders & an All­American by 8 Murphy's Law over Mr. Bic, Mr. Peanut & 3 Other . by9 
Stepan 3 Leone's Stallions over Unusual Muscle Development by 17 Enough Macho Meat over Trabercers by 6 
Step•n4 Cayanahmbies over Sons of Thunder by 12 The Pride is Back over 4 Shimmering Molds by 10 
Step•n 5 Penguins in Bondage over Brickahooters by 8 The Plebes over Hinkley's Tail Gunners by 11 
Step•n6 Lonely Bunch of Coconuts over Brendan Murphy's Jewish Christmas Special by 4 Nebbish over Flanner Vice by 2 
Booketore9 Morning Stiffies over Spooheads by 9 We Can't Jam over Mookie Wilson by 2 
Fun Bunch over The Hammers by 11 Booketore 1 0 
Skywalker over K's Swim Instructors by 9 
Tequila White Lightning over 5 Times Longer by 9 

00,3 Throats & Some Dude over SOH Hot Hands by' 
5 
Lyone11 5 Ethiopians over The lmcompretics by 7 Richard Cranium over Well Hung SOBs by 11 Airborn Express over It's the First Time for Us, 27·25 
Lyone12 Grandmaster Flash over What the F by 4 The Hitmen over Unprintable by 3 Packersnots over Scitillating Inducements, 22-20 

Fair Weather Match-ups 
Todlly'e Gllmn Stepan 1 

5:30-Leon Klinghoffer .. v. Doobies & RA-Holes 
6:15· TheZombiesv. You Have the Itch Stepan2 5:30-Sink the Pink v. Shysters 6:15-Kitty & the Pussycats v. The Foursome Step•n3 
5:30-Body Fluids v. Michael Ray 
6:15-S. Gibbs tor UMOC v. Gerry, Ferdinand,. Stepan4 5:30-The Z-Men v. Biggest Molds on Campus 6:15-5Architectsv. C'Mere You 
Bookstore 
continued/rom page 16 

easy time with The Hammers, as Pat Collins' 7-of-11 performance led them to a 21-10 victory. Tequila White Lightning also played yester­day, and came out on top of a 21-12 score against 5 Times Longer. 
In a game that lasted 85 minutes, We Can't Jam needed 93 shots to outlast Mookie Wilson, 21-19. The winners got balanced scoring from Tim Kennedy (7-of-20), Dave Some-
Stepan 5 5:30-The Bungholes v. Oily Bulhawks 6:15-Men Without Futures v. Christa & the Houston Rockets 
Stepan 6 5:30-Doug E Fresh. . v. Balance & the Beatboys 6:15-Good Ole Boys v. Old & Injured 
Booketore9 4:45-The Men's Club Plus 1 v. Tofu Chaka Khan 
5:30 -Drunks Against Mad Mothers v. Ferdinand Marcos 6:15-Rythm Methods v. The Redwings 
lofske ( 5-of-25), and John Reiser ( 4­of-13). 
Another long battle involved Airborn Express and It's The First Time For Us. Ten points from Rick Wirth and nine from Gregg Rossi nudged the Express to victory, 27­
25. It obviously wasn't the first game of basketball for Mike Mihelick, whose eight points was tops for the losers. 
Mike Jakob won the brickshoot­ing award yesterday, scoring on only 1-of-21 attempts from the field. Needless to say his team, Klinghof­fer's Swim Instructors, dropped a 
Booketore 10 4:45-5 Shootin Swedes v. FAW Again 5:30-5 White Boys v. 5 Purple Headed Shooters 6:15-Chronic Halitosis v. Wanna Get Trashed 
Lyone11 4:45-4 Guys Who Went to California v. Los Milandros 5:30-Let's Go Crazy v. Gay Bashers 6:15-Smilev. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. 
Lyone12 4:45-Bordelus Raiders v. Dashingly Suave 5:30-Redheads v. Beher Than Hot Patch 6:15-WBBS v. Phantom Shitters 
21-12 decision to Skywalker. 

Round two draws to a close today as four seeded teams will see action. Shysters takes on Sink the Pink at 
5:30 on Stepan Court 2. Tofu Chaka Khan will battle The Men's Club II 1 at 4:45 on Bookstore Court 9. On the Lyons courts, Let's Go Crazy is matched against Gaybashers at 5:30 on Court II, while WBBS with Ed Smerciak will try to continue its hot shooting against Phantom Shiners of Flanner, on Court 12 at 6: I5. Friday will be a day of rest for Bookstore players, with third round action commencing Saturday. 
/h,· fJIJ,\t'rt't'r '-••trt· l>.unt: ttltttc. lttl.ltt·d tlfllhc. tlurd tltu•r t•f l.tlt,rllllll "'~llH.It:nt ( t'nll·r Jc.tt·pt'' l.t,,Jfkd .Hht:rtl'.. tll): frtnli'J .1111 unlal t p 111 \lt~llll.l\ thrcn1~h I ndJ\ I ht' f Jh.,t•rt·t•r '.IIIli \1.tn ' t •ltu. c.· It 't .th d tlll t IH: t htnl tlt '' •r, •I fiJ.~~.1r ( ollt:gt· ( t'llh:r .lttt·pt' "'·'''llic. d' fr,,m 12 '11 p 111 until ~ p 111 \ltlll dJ.\ though I ndJ\ I>LH.tlllll l11r nt·" d.t\ tl.h,tltc.d., ,, ~pIll \II tl.t,,lfinl' 
llHI'I ht· prt'pJ.ld ntlu.·r 111 pc.-r,t•n••r IH 111.111 ( h.tr~c. '' Ill t c:lll' per tn c.._ h.tr.a... tt·r, c.·r dJ\ 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

································································ 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 
234-81117. 
Wordproceseing-Typing 272-6827 

TYPING • Fast, High-Quality. Call 287­9257 
Typing/Wordproceseing 277-8131 

EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAILL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
YEAR END BEACH BREAK only $99 for a week at Fort w.non Beach, South Padre Island and Daytona Beach! Hurry, call Sunchase Tours for more information toll free 1-8()()..321·5911 TODAY! When that lut test is over ...Break for The Beach with Sunchase! 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,040 $59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 805-SI!l, 6000 Ext R-9834 for current federal list. 
sPR'iNO:ii:Ai1it"se,~~j;·i~~f~;.ent 
Apr.17-30-ST.'FRANCIS SHOPPE­behind F~l11111 R~ canter, Open 10 a.m.· 5p.m. lflon.·s.t. 
CLA8SIFIEDS FOR THE NEXT PUBUSHING DAY WILL BE AC.. CEPTED UNTIL 2 P.lfl. DAILY. 
LOST/FOUND I 

LOST: LAST FRIDAY, APRIL 4TH, AT THE AMERICANA DURING THE HOLY CROSS SYR, 1 BLUE BACK-PACK CONTAINING IMPORTANT ITEMS. IF FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT MARY AT 284-5176 A.S.A.P. 
FOUND:CANON CAMERA CASE AF35M at the SENIOR FORMAL. CAILL JOHN at 287-6518. 
LOST:MINOLTA FLASH CASE AT SENIOR FORMAL. PLEASE CALL JOHN AT 287-6518. 
LOST IN THE VICINITY OF MARTIN'S SUPERMARKET ON ST. RD. 23 • A WALLET WITH MANY MEMBERSHIP CARDS, V~ CARD, DRIVER'S 
LICENSE, .. S50 REWARD FOR FINDER. RET RN TO MSGR. FRANCIS SAMPSON, CORBY HALL, NOTRE DAME, IN 46556. 
LOU HOLTZ didn't take my umbrella by accident from the SOUTH DINING HALL after dinner on 4-14, but maybe YOU did?? It is black, it's a Totes, it is automatic and it has a brown handle. If by chance you have mistakenly taken my umbrella, PLEASE drop it off at LOST&FOUND on the second floor of LaFortune or call X2298 before it rains on my head! Thank You. 
MISSING-CROSS fountain pen; initiala EMG. The value of the pen transcends any monetary considerations. If you took it, I'll buy you your own when you return it. 234-7350 
LOST: BLUE WOOL JACKET FROM PARTY AT 814 CORBY SATURDAY NIGHT. JUST GOT IT FOR CHRISTMAS AND LIKE IT A LOT. IF YOU TOOK IT PLEASE CALL ME AND I WON'T BE MAD! REWARD. CALL MARK 1765. 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME JACKET WITH WHITE LETTERS ON BACK. LOST ON WEDNESDAY_ 4/9 AT STEP­·Id~~.C:OURTS AFTER ~E 'DUll!.~ iifi•FO\lNo, .PLEASE cALI" 
X3280. L ...., ••,,.~'-·4 ~= .. ~~~ .... 
LOST:GOLD SEIKO QUARTZ WATCH (WITH SCRATCHED CRYS­TAL).UNFORTUNATELY WAS LOST QUITE SOMETIME AGO.(I HOPE YOU HAVEN'T GROWN TOO ATIACHED TO tn.POSSIBLY LOST AT ACC SWIM POOL.REWARO(AND NO QUES­TIONS). PLEASE CALL 3289,ASK FOR BRIAN IF FOUND. 
LOST: MENS'S GOLD NO RING. LOST ON 4/10. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN FLANNER AND SOUTH DINING HALL. IF FOUND, CALL STEVE AT 289-5189. 
FORRENT I· 
FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
Summer School Rental . Large 9 room house, 4 bdrms, carpets & drapes. Near campus. Furnished or unfurnished. 272­8185. 
NEED ONE OR TWO ROOMMATES FOR NEXT YEAR. IN A HOUSE OFF OF PORTAGE AVE NEAR MARTINS. $65 OR $87/MO PLUS UTILITIES. CAILL ROB (X1245) OR ROB (x1772) 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS AperlmenleiiV..._..lor 
F..'ll 
lllonlh~ 
272-1441 
HOUSE FOR RENT in Leeper Perk May 15 -Au{l22. $31 0/mo. util. inc. Ideal for 2. 287-4024 
CLEAN 2bdrm HOUSE on NO Ave for summer rental. FuN furnished.287-6625 from4-6pm. 
WANTED 
SUMMER ROOMMATE needed.Brendenw'd Apts.call x15451ate. 
WANTED Used woman's bicycle at a reasonable price. can Betty at 239-5604 
u~;;;·A-p-p;~··i;;·;;i'P;;;iifir.-c~i.:i.i~._\ 
233-8803 and leave a memge.' Thanks. 
I WILL PAY ANY PRICE FOR TWO (2) COIIIIIIENCEMENT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL BRUCE AT 4501 ANYTIME. 
Are you a S.lnt lflary'e etuclent looking lor e well paying eummer job that wiH allow you to gain proi....Onlll ••· perlence? Apply now lor a poeltlon aa e PHONE/MAIL caller. You will be cal­ling alumnH, par-, and frfende ol SIIIC ee part ole tunclralelng program. Apply now~ the SIIIC pereonnel office or calllflllrtlle Hewftl•t 5351 lor more dlllalle. AJeo neec1e0-Clerical help. You do not need to bea SIIIC etuclent to be• clerlc:el. Apply now! 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 277-0417, EVES. BEFORE 10. 
NEED ONLY ONE TICKET TO COM­MENCEMENT WILL PAY $$$$$ CALL PAULATX1701 
Want to rent a furnished apartment near NO for the summer. Please call Jodi X4544. 
Male Roommate In CHICAGO after grecl. Cd Bob x1743 
NEED RIDE TO TOLEDO/CLEVELAND ALONG 1-60: 4/16-4/20 CALL MONIKA 3772 ' 
SLEEPING QUARTERS l'mtoodumbtograduateinMay, sol need a place to stay for Fall Semester. If you have an extra room, I will pay a fair amounttoevensleep on porch. call1986. 
FOR SALE 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR$$$ AND CREDIT! Cliff notes available. PAN· DORA'S BOOKS 937 South Band Ave. 233-2342 
78 Datsun B210. Moving, muateell. Good condition. 272-9531. 

Apple Ill Syetem Complete with 256K RAM, Clock/Calendar, numeric keypad, monitor, and bui~-in disk drive. System in­cludes a Service Contract covering all parts and labor throufih September 1986, Haba Systems/// E-Z Pieces integrated 'wdrct : ,.ocaasor. spreadsheet and database. Apple Access II/communiea• tions package and 4 expansion slots. Must sacrifice at $700. Add a ProFile 5Mb hard disk and interface for a package price of $1,100. ProFile and interface separately tor $500. For mare information or a demonstration call Mark at 239-5600 
days or 233-8803 evenings. 
FOR SALE: 1976 Ford Pinto 4 sp, 2 dr, hatch Best offer: call Jim AT1405 (after 10pm) 
1975 P•cer-Many new parts,body good,reliable transporlation:$400 or best offer /287-6656 
FOR SALE-SANSUI 55 WATI STEREO RECEIVER MODEL 981, B.I.C BELT DRIVE TURNTABLE W/SHURE M95ED CARTRIDGE, O'SULLIVAN FULL RACK SYSTEM W/ RECORD STORAGE, AND 4 ALTEC LANSING SPEAKERS. SOUNDS GREAT. CALL MIKE-1643 OR MARK AT 262-2023 FOR MORE INFO 
1981 Datsun 210 high milage great gas milege $2000 or best offer Call 283-1724 
NEED WHEELS FOR THE SUIIIIIIER? 1968 AMC Ambaasador, automatic, V8. good transporllation. $600 or best offer. Call 287-5235 after 5 p.m. or anytime on weekends. 
80 Dodge Colt.Gold,FWD,2dr,4­Sp.GOOD CONDJTION.$1,200/Best Of­fer. X277 -8763 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.lfl. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FREECOUPONSinlhey.Uowp8QMol the campue Telephone Directory. Uee them todllyl 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thuradlly; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1 am Saturday; 4pm-1 Opm Sunday. 
LAAURA-Do you know what Sunday is? 
FRANK ('Magnum') from ALUMNI-I ap­preciate your 'honesty' this weekend-· and I'm sorry you've had difficulty coming, but don't wait for me. Its something your'e just going to have to do by yoursetl. 
To HOWDY DOOOY AND THE THREE STOOGES FROM ALUMNI-Get off your high horsee. We've seen better...a lot bet­ter. 
JACK IS BACK!! 
THE BEAR IS OUT OF HIBERNATIONII 
WHO IS THE GREATEST GOLFER OF ALL TilliE? WAS THERE ANY DOUBT? JACK IS BACKIII 
HELP!! Need 1 more COMMENCEMENT ticket. Have extras? Donna x2279 
1et SOURCE BANK PRESENTS The 1986 New Car Sale NO ACC April 18th '85 BMW 318-$14,700 '86 Celebrity-$9,250 '86 Cutlass Ciera -$1 0,800 '86 Pontiac6000 LE-$10,744 For more Info. Celllflarfo Manta 
236-2201 
TOIII McGEE You are a babe' I love watching you in Herb's class. I'll see you at D's Thursdy. dance with me-because I NEED you! 
P.E. 

DOROTHY DORAN Have a wicked awesome birthday! Brian 
THANK YOU St. Jude, I know that this would not have happened if it wasn't for you. This novena has NEVER tailed. 
JUGGUNG CLUB Anyone interested in joining juggling club next fall, call Bill x1190. No experience needed. 
Established Band, Into New Music ­Looking for a Guitarist and Drummer for Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 
IRISH GARDENS.. .IRISH GAR· DENS.. .IRISH GARDENS We are now accepting appications for FALL EMPLOYMENT! Come by now and pick up an application. We're in the basement of LaFortune.You must be on financial aid. 
Maureen, Congratulations! The city's not going to know what hit it! me 
MEGAN IN MEXICO: WE MISS YOU WRITE US! LOVE, TARA AND SILVIA 
K-·1 LOVE YOU! HOW'S THAT FOR AN AD? 
Logan Volunte.s: Don't forget about the campout this weekend-9:00 S.turdlly morning to 2:00 Sunday. Bring blankets and a pillow. Daring n-volunteer. welcome. 
To Kevin, aka Bruce. aka Kevin.... Happy Ptrthda¥Jglne bclth of you from the both of us. Love. Ann a~d Tess Baby 
NUCLEAR FETUS! NUCLEAR FETUS! THE NUCLEAR FETUS FOR UIIIOC!! 
(cough. cough) Sorry, just a frog in my throat-or was it four? 

FROG (frog) n. -any of vanous spineless, tailless. amorphous, chiefly uncoor­dinated amphibians with a smooth, moist slimy skin and stubby hairy hind legs. 
ND/SMC CHARITY BALL 
ND/SMC CHARITY BALL 

The extravaganza is only two weeks 
away.. 

ruad CAEMGEN MIRGIUS: if you really want to 'be friends', why don't you try acting like one? ·sar· 
COOKIE SALE THURS. APRIL 17 7:45­
8:30 HOLY CROSS LOBBY SMC 
NEED A RIDE TO I.U.(BLOOMINGTON). LEAVE FRI. AF­TERNOON OR SAT. A.M. RETURN SUN. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL ANGIEX3781. 
Feel like e rat on • trMdmlll? IIMux Arte Ball· A rnl revolution Frldlly 10pm ·Architecture Bldg IMturfng the Pat Giblin Band Dr-lor a REVOLUTION II 
DtSTRICTX1 STUDENT SENATE ADVISORY COUN­CIL Make sure the SIUdenf Senate does something tor you! 
Apply for a position on the District X 1 SENATE ADVISORY COUNCIL. Ap­plications are available from Student Government--2nd Floor Lafortune--or from Brian at 2561. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE APRIL 25. 
JACK WHO? Ban is the greatest without a doubt! -Hogan's Hero's 
WANTED-cute, hot chick willing to ex­periment, enjoys giving wakeup calls, does housework, drinks like a fish (on ThurSdays). CaUFrenk lflccarthyat 1806 immediately. 
NO GRADUATE NEEDS ONE COM­
MENCEMENT TICKET· 
DESPERATELY-BIG BUCKS$$ 
CALL DREW AT 272-4540 

The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 11 
Notre Dame grad Carr uses degree as career to fall back on after NBA 
Associated Press  receptive,  socially  and  businc:s­ after basketball, he said.  
swise."  "My  parents  always  preached,  
INDIANAPOLIS  -Austin  Carr is  Many people:, of course, want to  'You won't be able to do this forever.  
again hard at work in the Hoosier state, only thest.· days his time is spent bt.·hind a desk, not on a basket­ reminisce about his basketball days, he said. "Oh, yeal1," he answers willingly.  You have to get an education,"' he recalled in an interview this week with the Indianapolis Star. "Notre  
ball court.  ''I'll  never  forget  those  days.  But  Dame reiterated that ... After about  
many athlc:tes come away with not­ my third year in the league (NBA),  
Carr. whose career scoring records at Notre Dame have stood  hing but memories." The 6-foot-3 Carr, who goes back  when I got injured, I realized what my mom and dad said was true."  
for I <; years, is president of Packag­ing Unlimited, an Indianapolis com­pany that does contract packaging and shipping. During the week, he lives in a northside apartment, and he plans to bring his wift.·, Sharon, and thc:ir two children to Indianapolis this sum­mt.·r from Clevc:land, where he  to Cleveland on weekends to be with his family, scored 2,560 points in his Notre Dame career, an average of 34.6 points a game. He is the only Irish player ever to score 50 or more points in a game, and he did that nine times-topped by an NCAA tourney­record 61 points in 1971. Carr, the nation's player of the  Between that time and his retire­ment in 1981, Carr was in and out of an auto dealership and a beer dis­tributorship in the Cleveland area. He was planning to enter the petroleum transporting business when he met Indianapolis busines­sman Henry M. Childrey. One thing led to another, and four  
played nine }Tars in the Ba.~ketball Association.  National  year as a senior, was the first one taken in the 1971 NBA draft and led  months ago, Carr took over manage­ment of Packaging Unlimited, a sub­ 
the Cavaliers in scoring in each ofhis  sidiary of Childrey Enterprises.  
"I  think I'm getting here at  the  t1rst three seasons. He averaged I 5  The  firm  docs  contract  work  
right  time."  the  38-year-old  Carr  points a game for his career.  "anywhere from shipping baby cribs  
says of his start  in business in In­ But his degree from Notre Dame  to shipping 500-pound generators  
dianapolis. "Peopk have been very  assured him of a chance for success  to India," Carr said.  

U.S. Diving National Indoor meet begins with suprise prelim leaders 
Associated Press Grt.·g Louganis, who has won "It was bad timing to get these more national championships than things talten out," Louganis said. INDIANAPOLIS -Scott Donie, a any diver in United States history, "I'm not used to diving with pain." 17-}Tar-old high school senior, and began chasing his 36th by finishing Earlier, Baker gave herself a shot 
Tristian Bakt.·r. a junior at Brigham third with S·-18.10 points. of self confidence by placing first in Young. wert.· the surprise leaders the women's 3-meter prelims. yt·sterday in prc:liminary competi­Louganis, who had about 10 warts Balter, who recently completed tion at the l:.s. Diving National In­removed earlier in the day, said he her junior year at Brigham Young door Championships. had to compete while "dealing with University, had a final score of 
a lot of pain." 509. 10 points for her I 0 dives. Donit·. who attends Spanish River "I had one wart underneath a nail Former world champion Megen lligh Sdwol in Boca Raton. Fla.. on my hand and the doctor had to Neyer, seeking her I Oth national ~Ulrt·d a caret.·r-high 'iS2. 1'i points dig it out," said tht.· defending cham­championship, was second with 10 It-ad tht· men's platform prdims. pion. who wa.~ competing in diving 490.50. Defending champion Kelly 
Ron Meyt.·r. a doubk t:hampion on for the t1rst time since last August McCormick, the Olympic silver tht· springboard in the 198<; NCAA when he swept all three outdoor medalist in the event, placed third at mt•t•t was second at ';·18. 76. events. 477.84. 
Thali<s toyou... it works ... for All. OFUS Unlliedway 


AP Photo 

Se11e Ballesteros ofSpain blasts out ofthe bunker earlter on the tour this season. Ballesteros willjoin Masters championjack Nick­laus and defending champion Bernard Langt>r at the Heritage Open this weekend. 
O'Grady not bothered by fines while playing 
Associated Pre88 from a series of newspaper articles 
in which O'Grady made bitter at­
HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C.-The tacks on the commissioner. simmering feud with the PGA Tour's The decision on the severity of leadership, Mac O'Grady said, bot­the disciplinary action against hers him not at all when he's on the O'Grady now rests with the commis­golf course. sioner. He said last weekend he had 
"When I'm out here, it's my no timetable for making a decision. world," O'Grady said yesterday, He also said, earlier, that no an­walking down the 18th fairway at nouncement would be made on any the Harbour Town Golf Links, the actions against the player. site of the S450,000 Sea Pines "It will be treated as a private mat­Heritage Classic that begins today. ter. If he wants to go public with it, 
"I can put all that aside. that's up to Mac," Beman said. 
"Look. The sun is shining and the And O'Grady said he would with­birds are singing. I'm playing the hold comment un'til the tournament game I love. Nothing bothers me out in Las Vegas April 30-May 4. here," said O'Grady, who faces pos­While he insists the pending ac­sibly severe disciplinary action from tions have not affected his play, he Tour Commissioner Deane Beman. has missed the cut in his last two 
starts, the Tournament Players 
O'Grady, 34, now in his fourth Championship and last week's year on the Tour, faces a possible to­Masters. He won more than tal of S12,000 in fines and up to 12 S200,000 last season and this year weeks suspension -tlle most severe has collected $39,000, with his high penalty against a Tour player in finish a tie for fifth at Doral. more than a decade -as the result of In this invitational event, carrying a series of proposed disciplinary ac­a 1450,000 total purse, he faces a tions by the tour. field that includes most of the men 
O'Grady said he has made formal who challenged Jack Nicklaus last responses to tlle charges, arising week in Augusta, Ga. 
Baseball 
continued/rom page 16 
Harmon, who gave up six runs, got the loss and Brad Cross picked up the win in the second game. 
On Sunday, the Irish were swept by scores of 7-5 and 5-2. Ken Soos was 1-for-4 with two RBis and scored a run in the first game, but again it was not enough in the face of three home runs and three doubles for Xavier. 
Xavier put themselves in the MCC driver's seat with the last game ofthe series. Chris Flynn homered and Tom Guilfoile sacrificed Scott Rogers home to account for the Irish two runs. 
Brad Cross and Bryan Tucker were given the losses. 
Not including yesterday's game, the Irish are hitting at .310 as a team, but their opponents follow close be­hind at .305. Tom Shields leads the 
team at a scorching .471 clip, but has 
not had the same number of bats as 
his teammates because of an early­
season shoulder injury. 
John Lougluan follows closely at 
.418, and leads the team In hits with 
46. He is second only to Ken Soos (27 RBis) with 25. 
Soos leads the team with four homers, with Rogers, Tim Hutson, and Chris Flynn tied with three apiece. Most impressive are Flynn's three, coming in only 35 at-bats. 
On the pitching end, the Irish are struggling with a 6.51 ERA. Kevin Chenail (2-2, 7.88 ERA) leads the team in innings pitched with 37.2. john Gleeson (0-0, 4.61 ERA) has a team-leading three saves. 
The Irish now will face Detroit in more MCC action this weekend at jake Kline Field for a pair of doubleheaders on Saturday and Sun­day. 
---~~-----~­
The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-P.age 12 

Notre Dame defensive coordinator and inside Kovaleski will take the leadership role on defense linebacker coach Foge Fazio inst7ucts his lineback­this season. Larry Burke details the situation at ing corps at spring practice. Returning starter Mike right. 
Holmes is not at news conference 

LAS VEGAS, Nev. -Heavyweight champion Michael Spinks looked at an empty chair on the dais at a news conference yesterday and said, "Impossible for us to see you, butwe know you're there." 
"He's here in spirit," said co­promoter Don King. 
Larry Holmes was supposed to be in a Las Vegas Hilton ballroom to face members of the media with whom he has been feuding. 
Instead he was on a family outing at Lake Mead. So King relayed what he said was Holmes' prediction for his rematch 
...y$6. 

Right now. you can get the I hearty THURSDAY THICK I ONE for only six bucks! 
I 
A thick 12" pizza with pepperoni. double cheese 

I 
and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery in less than 30 minutes. So call

~ 
Domino's Pizza and ask torI the THURSDAY THICK ONE. 
I 
Our dnvers carry .less than 

I 
I 
$20 00 L1m1ted delivery area No coupon necessary. Not valid 
w1th any other oHer 

I 
with Spinks for the International Boxing Federation title Saturday night at the Hilton: 
"In the seventh round, Spinks will hit the ground." 
Holmes is a 7 -S favorite to regain the title he lost on a IS-round unanimous decision to Spinks last Sept. 2I for his first pro loss after 48 victories. 
Holmes has criticized the judging ofthe first fight. He has also said he's worried about a pinched nerve in his neck and that going into the match he's feeling sorry about Spinks and his family. 
"I never really knew Larry until the last fight," Spinks said. "Then I found out a lot of things about Larry 
that told me a lot about him as a per­
son. 
"I don't care to share that with 
you." 
Spinks said he wished the chal­
lenger had appeared for the final 
news conference for the scheduled 
IS-round indoor fight, which will be 
televised live by HBO. 
"I like to look at my man to see 
how nervous he is," Spinks said. 
Duane Ford of the Nevada State Athletic Commission appolgized to the media for Holmes' having had ..Dick,..Y.pung, a columnist for the New 'York Post, bodily removed Tuesday 
from Holmes' public workout. 

Backers 
continuedfrom page 16 
a better team." 
The Irish will have to make up for 
some key losses on the outside as 
well. Graduation will claim a pair of 
four-time letterwinners in Mike 
Larkin and Rick DiBernardo. Junior 
Robert Banks has already been 
moved to defensive end. 
While defensive coordinator and inside linbacker coach Foge Fazio at least has two proven starters in his group, inside linebacker coach Kurt Schottenheimer does not have the same luxury. But he does have Figaro. 
"I've been pleased with the what Cedric Figaro has done so far," says Schottenheimer. "I think he has a chance to be as good as any linebacker in the country. And I've coached a couple of great ones in Michael Brooks (at LSU) and Carl Banks (at Michigan State)." 
With Figaro set at one outside spot, Schottenheimer's choice at the other spot will come from a group that includes juniors Butlerand Tom Galloway, sophomore Darrell Gor­don, and freshmen Rich Morrison, Greg Hudson and Dan Quinn. Butler is the only one with game ex­perience, but that was as an inside backer last season. Morrison was converted from last year's bumper crop offirst-year tight ends. 
"I think right now the upperclas­smen have the inside track," says Schottenheimer. "They have the ability, but none have them has played much here in the past. Still, I think outside linebacker will be a good, solid position for us. The younger guys -Rich Morrison, Dan Quinn and Greg Hudson -are developing. They're coming along on a day-by-day basis, and on a weekly basis. I see some good foot­ball players here. 
"It will be interesting to see how Dave Butler adjusts, and how Tom Galloway adjusts. And I think Darrell Gordon has outstanding athletic ability.lt's good to see that everyone is willing to play a role and is not sel­fish. I think evryone is committed to building a good team and not to how much playing time they're going to get." 
Last year the Irish had four seasoned players on the outside in Larkin, DiBernardo, Banks and Figaro. Schottenheimer says he is confident that he can find a group of dependable players of about that size among this year's corps. 
"I think five would be a good num­ber as far as the number of outside linebackers you can count on in a game situation," says Schotten­heimer. "But because of the close­ness among this group as far as talent goes we might have more and we might have less. But the important thing now is that we're making progress." 
the NVA office, and bring the 4.00 entry fee. Door prizes will be offered

Run 
to the runners. continuedjrompage 16 Sally Derengoski, Coordinator of ( 2I:OS) and Colleen Donnelly in the Recreatonal Services for the NVA six mile ( 42:48), both under­and organizer of the race, is very en­graduates, were the first women thusiastic about the potential that across the finish line. the race has for health improvement 
Remember, if you like to have run and fun. She encourged anyone who seriously or for the fun of it sign up has ever run at all to join in the fun now for the Irish Spring Run now at for fun and fitness sake. 

ournament 

After your lastexam, whattoughquestions will youstillbe facing? 
W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For anyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides an opportunity to ask and explore .the possibilities in community. 
Contact: 
Vocation Director Box 541 Notre Dame. IN 46556-0541 
• 
(219) 239-6385 

CAMPUSYIIW 
EXTRA 'MCII CRIST 

APARTMENTS ;r: 
1­
2n-21s1 StiURentingforFaU 1986 
1835 South Bend Ave. 

Plaza 23 Center Now under Construction: Tennis 
(Ready for use this May) Basketball Volleyball 

DOMINO'S PIZZA DEUVERS"' d 
FREE. q, 

The Observer Thursday, April 17, 1986-page 13 

l 
~ 
! 
Chicago White Sox' second baseman Tim Hulett !l'aits for the throw to tag the sliding base stealer. 
THI KING SAYS: "WOW'' 
~, ... • GOEBEL 
15~~ 
\!..! 
(i 
~MORA CREAM UQUEUR
JUST LIKE UHLUAI 
&~,~~ 
BERINGER 
WHITE ZIMFAMDEL 
CENTURIO ASTI SPUMANTE 
49~'"' 

CALIFORNIA COOLER 
SUN COUNTRY COOLER 
2~~ 
APPhoto 
The Sox defeated the Detroit Tigers 10-4 last night. Details on the right. 
PRICES GOOD THRU 4-19-86 
BUDWEISER KEGS 
$31.50
1;2 
BARREL 
SEAGRAM'S 
$9.99
CANADIAN HUNTER 1.75 l. 
JIM BEAM BOURBON 


CALVERT GIN 
PASSPORT SCOTCH 
BEEFEATER GIN 
RONRICO 
RUM ~. 
1 
·"~y~
9 'ii'll·'·:
I 9 •;,·;····,~~ 
1.75l. ...) 
td: 
BECK'S BEER 
.~ liGHT OR DARK 
~~.-3·""&i 
. 6 PACK 

Ryan strikes out nine, nails two RBis for win 
Associated Press  erased as Jim Rice groundt·d into his  
third double play in eighth games in  
SAN FRANCISCO · Nolan Ryan  the fourth.  
struck out nine in 7 2/3 innings and  Saberhagen struck out six and  
drove in two runs yesterday as the  walked just one in outducling Nip­ 
Houston Astros beat the San Fran­ per, 1-1, who went the distance.  
cisco Giants 4-1. Ryan, 39, who allowed six hits,  Chicago 10, Detroit4  
struck out nine and walked three,  
got reliefhelp from Dave Smith, who  CHICAGO · Ron Kittle drove in  
recorded his third save by allowing  four runs with a three-run homer  
one hit the rest of the way.  and a sacrifice fly and Carlton Fisk  
Ryan, 2·1, avenged his opening·  also homered last night to lead the  
day loss to the Giants in Houston  slump-ridden Chicago White Sox to  
after ending a first-inning threat by  a I 0-4 victory over the Detroit  
striking out Bob Brenly following a  Tigers.  
double by Joel Youngblood and a  The triumph, behind the four-hit  
walk and wild pitch toJeff Leonard.  pitching of Floyd Bannister, Bill  
Ryan then knocked in two runs in  Dawley and BobJames, was only the  
the second inning with a two-out,  second in eight games for the Sox  
bases-loaded single to left.  and came at the expense ofWalt Ter­ 
Roger Mason took the loss, his  rell, l· I.  
first decision of the season.  The game was disrupted in the  
Ryan, the all-time major league  seventh inning when a Bannister  
strikeout king, boosted his career  pitch sailed behind Dave Collins.  
strikeout total to 4,101.  Collins charged Bannister, l·l, as  
Royals 1, Boston 0  both benches emptied, but order was quickly restored. Collins was  
ejected.  
BOSTON -Steve Balboni belted a  Two innings earlier, Detroit's  
long homer and Bret Saberhagen  Randy O'Neal had hitjohn cangelosi  
allowed only two hits yesterday as  with a pitch.  
the Kansas City Royals posted their fourth victory in a row with a 1-0  Reds 5, Braves 3  
decision over the Boston Red Sox.  
Balboni's second home run of the  ATLANTA -Dave Concepcion hit  
season leading off the second inning  two home runs and drove in three  
off Boston's AI Nipper was all Saber­ runs, and pinch-hitter Tracy Jones  
hagen needed for his first victory of  drove in the tie-breaking run with a  
the season.  sacrifice fly as the Cincinnati Reds  
The 1986 American League Cy  beat the Atlanta Braves 5-3last night.  
Young Award winner and the World  With the Reds trailing 3-2, Con­ 
Series MVP allowed only singles by  cepcion opened the seventh inning  
Tony Armas with two out in the  by lining Rick Mahler's first pitch for  
second and by Don Baylor leading  his first homer of the year. He also  
off the fifth. Neither Armas nor  hit a first-pitch homer off reliever  
Baylor advanced beyond first.  Bruce Sutter in the eighth.  
The only other Boston runner was  Bo Diaz followed the seventh­ 
Wade Boggs, who walked and was  inning homer with a single.  

Knight accepts his role and improves for Mets 
Associated Press Knight, who plays in a platoon 
with Howard Johnson at third base, 
NEW YORK -Ray Knight of the came to the Mets on Aug. 28, 1984 New York Mets has stopped worry­from the Houston Astros. He ing about being an everyday player finished out the 1984 season with a and now is playing like one. .237 average. He began the 1985 
In his first three games of the season on the disabled list after el­season, the one-time career .300 hit­bowsurgery and finished with a .218 ter had two home runs, three RBI, average. five runs and five hits in II at-bats. "I knew it in the spring. This was 
"Last year, I was playing every the first time in three years that 1 was game with the attitude that if I got really prepared for the season," three hits, maybe I would play again Knight said yesterday. He said he tomorrow," Knight says. "You have was physically sound, "no opera­to be able to relax, which is what a tions," his wife, golf star Nancy player does when he plays every Lopez, is pregnant "so I wasn't day. I think I'm finally relaxed playing golf all spring," and "I've again." geared everything toward baseball." 
Cava-tmt«Jh Hall Productions 

-----------~----~ 

--~--------­
The ObseiWl Thursday, April 17, 1986 -page 14 
Pesavento has great attitude, spirit to bring along with strong batting 
By KEVIN HERBERT "Lou then told me to concentrate thought he would take advantage of Sports Writer on baseball. From that point on I the opportunity." have gone strictly with the "My goal was to start and play a 
Pat Pesavento has been a major horsehide sport." lot," said Pesavento. "I also wanted factor in propelling the Notre Dame Pesavento has been batting in the to contribute to the team in any way baseball team to a 15-1 5 record with second slot for the Irish, and his I could. We have a great bunch of a team batting average which is very average to date is well above the guys on the team. We push each ot­near .300. .300 mark. her and pick one another up 
He has also been valuable With the injury sustained earlier whenever someone gets down," said defensively, starting at shortstop and in the year to senior Tom Shields, he Pesavento of his goals and left field throughout the year. has had to fill in at the shortstop teammates respectively. 
"Pat Pesavento's competitive position. Upon the return of Shields "I try to concentrate on the field, 
spirit and super attitude may be his this past weekend, Pesavento has and I also try to be as intense as pos­greatest attributes," said Notre been starting in leftfield. sible. You always have to want to Dame head baseball coach Larry win. Gallo. "Pat has added another left­"I am very pleased with the way I 
Pesavento was originally handed hitter to our lineup," said have hit thus far. Coach Gallo has recruited by Gerry Faust as a quater­Gallo. "He has also given us ver­helped me alot. He changed my back, but that did not work out too satility by starting both in the out­stance a little. I feel this has been a well. field and the infield. His basic innate major factor in my hitting success. 
ability has made him the player he is. He helped me get back into the 

"At the beginning of this past fall, I He has tremendous potential. groove of things so I would not wanted to switch to baseball be­"He has noglaring weaknesses. He pressure myself." cause I knew that I would not be is a good hitter who makes steady Pesavento's return to the playing football," said Pesavento. contact and can also hit for power. diamond has helped the Irish season 
"Just before Christmas break, in Pat also has great speed and a good tremendously. Gallo and all Notre my one-on-one interview with Lou arm. Somewhere down the road he Dame baseball fans can look forward Holtz, I told him that I thought I may even be used as a reliefpitcher. to two more productive years from could contribute more to the uni­"We all questioned how he would the 6-3, 185 lb. sophomore from versity by playing baseball. handle the two year layoff. But we Lockport, Illinois. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Graduate To A New car! 


APPhoto 

San Francisco Giants' Dan Gladden (below) tumbles into a tag 
• by Houston Astros second baseman Bill Doran. Astros pitcher Nolan Ryan struck out ninein a winning effort over theGiants last night, 4-1. Story on page 13. 




~t(JtcJI.at~-----------------------------------------T-h-ur_s_da_y_,_A_pr_il_l_7_,_1_98_6_-_p_a_g_e__
l5 Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
Zeto Kevin Walsh 
tJI.T WOK AT TI-lE 8eNeA~L FQNT3. l?!OMY NO../ Wf:~ OlN­
DucnNo ~ a.l TI-le: fl..u, eot-i>, CANceR J>.Nl> 
~Jl>. 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Disfigure 5 Shaded walk 9 Gr. letter 
14 Window part IS Fencing sword 16 Finch 17 Huron's 
neighbor 18 Petty quarrel 19 Like Homo 
sapiens 20 Be in control 23 Pilot 24 Yorkshire city 25 Cushion 28 Change the 
station 30 Slander 32 Comp. pt. 35 Stupid 38 Soviet city 39 Gain control 
of a stock 
43 Department in France 44 DeValera of 
Ireland 4/17/86
' 1986"Tnbune Med1a Serv1ces. Inc. 
Campus 

•NOON 
-seminar, "Collective Bargaining Compared: Japan and the United States," Dr. Koji Taira, University of Illinois, Board Room, Hayes Healy, Sponsored by College of Busi­ness Administration, 

•4: 
I 5 P.M. -lecture, "Collective Bargaining Compared: Japan and the United States," Dr. Koji Taira. University of Illinois, 122 Hayes­Healy, Sponsored by College of Business Ad­ministration, 

•4: 
I 5 P.M. -lecture, "The Literature of the Vietnam War", Robert Slabey, Notre Dame, Wilson Commons, Sponsored by GSAC and the English Department, 



All R1ghts Reserved

-'5 Parseghian 46 Churchman 49 Object of 6 Type of court 
study for 7 Rental 
Fermi agreement 51 Inspect 8 River In Hades 52 Eucharist 9 Afr. fly 
plate 10 'fowel word 55 Soft-toned 11 Sooner than 
organ stop 12 Facial spasm 59 Be In control 13 Colony 61 Take an oath creature 64 Song 21 Instant 65 Concept 22 Singular 66 Daughter of 25 Winter coat 
Nephele 26 Arab VIP 67 Early Britain 27 River plain 68 Bank In Paris? 29 Airport abbr. 69 Hollers 31 Pro 70 Soap frame 32 Range 71 lt. noble 33 Rueful 
family 34 Ford or Pyle 36 Tibetan wild 
DOWN sheep 1 Eyeglasses 37 Study of 2 Gem weight meaning 3 Old-womanish 40 Born 4 Staggered 41 Witty remark 5 Network 42 Positive pole 
Wednesday's Solution 
E p I C 
SADAT.8LAT
A L 
T 0 

\OPERA RIICE S E 
E M 
~~J!~.H AMEX TAMP R 
lllll C K.
-EILAM TOE GHAT TIUDE I~Q:Ril
ROLE IETEIS.TRO'OP AM I N IS A N T A E L MIO J!_~ J! T E • T I E R IC L EI0 
ENE T HIEIMtE M 0 R y 0 F ATE MANE­THEH Ae~t,l•ll!iADDW
H A V E T 0 R M E T A X I A R E A E V I A N E V E R WIND DEPOT DENY 
4/11/86 
47 Exercises 57 Fissure mercy 58 Happify 48 Paving 59 Summon 
substance 60 Panama and 50 Work of art fedora 53 Snares 61 Bashful 54 Hawk home: var. 62 Very small 56 Stows cargo 63 House wing 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Barbeque Roast Pork Loin Turkey Turnover with Supreme Sauce Linguini with Spring Vegetables Mushroom and Cheese Encrote 
TV Tonight 
6:30P.M. 
7P.M. 
7:30P.M. 
8P.M. 
8:30P.M. 

16  NBC Nightly News  
22  CBS Evening News  
28  ABC's  World  News  Tonight  
with Peter Jennings  
16  MyAySyH  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  

34 Nightly Business Report 46 700 Club 16 Barney Miller 22 WKRP in Cincinnati 28 Wheel of Fortune 34 34 Front 34 16 The Cosby Show 22 Magnum, PI 28 Ripley's Believe It or Not 34 Money Makers 46 Lester Sumrall Teaching 16 Family Ties 34 McLaughlin's One on One 46 Austin Bartln 
---~­

Elephant campfires. 
•4:30 
P.M.· meeting, "Ezra Pound: A Student of Italian Culture", John Welle, Notre Dame, Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by Club ltalia, 

•7 
P.M. -meeting, Center for Social Con­cerns, Sponsored by Overseas Development Network, 

•7 
P.M.-seminar, "Mergers, Acquisitions and Leveraged Buy Outs of Closely-Held Com­panies," Crowe, Chizek and Company, 124 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Finance Club, 

•7:30 
P.M.-redeal, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame Department of Music, 


Saint Mary's Pizza Sweet & Sour Pork Spinach Lasagna Broccoli Cheddar Quiche 
"' 
9P.M. 
9:30P.M. 
10P.M. 
llP.M. 
11:30P.M. 
16 Cheers 22 Simon & Simon 28 The Colby's 34 Mystery 46 Lcsea Alive 16 NightC~rt 
16 Hill Street Blues 22 Knots Landing 28 20/20 34 The Heart of the Dragon 46 Manna for Modern Man 16 NewsCenter 16 22 22 Eyewitness News 28 WSJV Newswatch 211 34 Body Electric 46 Praise the Lord 
16 Tonight Show 22 Nlghtheat 28 ABC News Nigh tUne 34 Star Trek 

SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
The Sting 
$1.00 $1.00 
Wednesday, April 16,Thursday,April 17th 7:00,9:15, 11:30 Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
rgllJ@ me2©J£ \} &J 


Friday,April 18th, Saturday,April 19th 7:00. 9:15.11 :30pm 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 




r Thursday, April 1 7, 1986-page 16
SRorts
I 
Better teams aren't affected by rain or wind in Bookstore tournament 
By MIKE CARDINALE coldest of the Stallions, shot 6-for-1 1 preventing them from bringing the Sports Writer from the field, following a blistering ball up the court," he said. 8-for-9 game in the first round. Xave Chris Dillon was the only player 
Only a drizzle disrupted yester­Creary netted three buckets in a remotely thunderous for the losers, day's Bookstore Basketball XV ac­losing effort. scoring on all four of his attempts. tion, allowing many of the better For Leone's Stallions, the seeded Dillon was quick to sing the praises teams in the tournament to put on team in the Dave Dziedzic Sectional, of Cavanahmbies. impressive displays of basketball 
"All their players were really con­prowess. One such team was sistent," he said. "It isn't a one-man Leone's Stallions, who, for the team, but they beat us on the fast
Bookstore 

second straight game, needed only break. We could penetrate on occa­33 shots to coast to victory. Basketball sion, but we had trouble bringing Yesterday's victim, Unusual the ball up the court."
XV

Muscle Development, could manage Cavanahmbies is composed of only 21 shots from the field. Accord­four freshman and a sophomore, but ing toJohn Beals, who shot 0-of-4 for a difficult test lies ahead in the third despite their inexperience, the game, the Stallions had too much round. The team they will face is everyone is looking forward to great height to contend with. Ca~anahmbies, who exhibited a game on Sunday. 
"They were extremely large," style similar to the Stallions yester­"We're just gonna have to play the Beals said. "They had four to five day in trouncing Sons of Thunder best that we can," said Trybus. "The inches on us at almost every player, 21-9, shooting 21-of-32 as a team. keys for us are the defensive boards, so they took four or five shots every J.C. Trybus hit 8 ofhis 11 shots for and a good day weather-wise so that time down the court. Also, they Cavanahmbies, while teammate we can get our outside shooting played a tough straight-up man-to­John Hogenesch shot 6-of-7 for the game going." man defense." game. Trybus didn't feel that it was Two other seeds played yester­
Mike O'Grady was the horse his points that made the difference day, including top-seeded Fun inside for the Stallions, scoring on in the game, however. Bunch Finale. The Fun Bunch had an each ofhis six attempts, mostly from "The key to the game was that our inside the paint. Bill Sullivan, the guards handled their guards, see BOOKSTORE, page 10 
Kovaleski will lead inexperienced, 
Thc ()bscn·t'1'/justin Smith 

Drizzling rain did notstopyesterday'sBookstoreaction, asSter•e 
Treacy ofthe Fun Bunch dri11es the hoop in the r•ictory against The 
Hammers, 21-10. Mike Cardinale details Bookstore games at left.
athletically gifted linebacking crew 
By LARRY BURKE senhofer and myself," says and Greg tlarris, and freshman Ned Sports Writer Kovaleski. "But I think the guys be­Bolcar, along with walk-ons Mike 
Third annual Irish run 
hind the two ofus are going to make Johnson and Scott Blufton. Winning football is, among other up for their lack of experience with "These guys will give us good things, a combination of game ex­
depth," says Kovaleski. "Enough of 
planned for Saturday! 
perience and athletic ability. And them will be capable of playing. I 
while Notre Dame's 1986 lineback-think oVl·rall we're going to have a By SHAWN BUSHWAY graduate, and faculty) for both male I great corps inside. We'll definitely Sports Writer and female runners. First and second be ready." place trophies will be awarded in
Spring Kovaleski will be counted on to Ifyou like fun, and you like to run, each categories and all who finish ease the loss of four-time letterman the third annual NVA sponsored will be given at-shirt which sports a
Football 

Tony Furjanic as the defensive Irish Spring Run on Saturday is the lcprauchan and the race logo.'86 signal-caller for the Irish, and more event for you, regardless of whether For those who don't finish or have
t 
importantly, as their defensive you are a serious runner or only an trouble there will be aid stations mg corps mtght t>e short on the leader. occassional jogger. complete with Red Cross personnel. former, the group is planning to rely "We like to think of the inside The six mile run for those in great For serious competitors, splits will 
f on the latter, along with some good linebackers as beinglike the quarter­shape starts at II a.m. and runs be given at each mile marker. I old fashioned hard work, to com­back on defense," says Kovaleski, around campus, the golf course and Last year's winner of the three pensate. ·~because he's responsible for calling both lakes before returning to the mile run, Guy Locksmith (who no
I 
i As far as players with game ex­the defensive pl~ys. The players look starting block at the old credit union doubt used the splits), recorded a 
I perience go, the Irish have Mike Mike Kovaleski to us as leaders and it's important near Stepen Center. The three mile 16:25 time in the men's undergrad Kovaleski and Ron Weissenhofer their athletic abilty and their dedica­that we assume that responsibility. race for the more causual runner division. The six mile winner was inside and Cedric Figaro and Dave tion. These guys are good enough "As a three-year starter I've got starts at I 0 a.m. and follows a similiar graduate student Paul Matoosek in Butler outside. After that things are athletes to handle it." enough experience to help this unit course, avoiding the golf course and 32:08. pretty wide open. The supponing cast on the inside pull together. And that will make us St. Joseph Lake. Colleen Caine in the three mile "We're a little shy on experience includes four returnees: senior John For each race there are six inside once you get past Ron W eis-Cooney, sophomores Wes Pritchett see BACKERS, page 12 categories (undergraduate, see RUN, page 12 
Purdue uses pitching, hands Irish 20-6 defeat 
By TERRY LYNCH The game, scheduled for nine in­Sports Writer nings, was called after the seventh on account of the poor weather. 
On a cold, windy, and rainy day Scott Rogers tagged a solo fourth­yesterday in West Lafayette, the Irish im)ing home run, and Rich Van­baseball team took to the road and thournout and Ken Soos had two lost a 20-6 affair against Purdue. hits apiece offensively for the Irish. With the loss, the Irish record The Irish game against Valparaiso dropped to I 5-16. was cancelled Tuesday, the first can­
In a game that was essentially over cellation on the schedule this soon after it started, the Boiler­season. makers pounded Irish starter Steve Last weekend, the Irish dropped Powell, John Gleeson, and Robert three out offour games at Xavier in a Fitz for 1 5 runs after two innings and crucial Midwestern Collegiate Con­hit three home runs. With the loss, ference matchup. The only bright Harmon's record dropped to 1-4. spot of the weekend was Saturday's 
It was an excusable loss for the second game. Ken Soos hit his fourth Irish, who not only had to battle the home run ofthe year and knocked in conditions and the traveling, but three runs. Scott Rogers added a one of the top teams in the Big I 0 as triple and two RBis of his own in the well. 7-5win. 
The Boilermakers had 22 return­For the rest of the duration at ing lettermen for yesterday's con­Xavier, the Irish could not keep pace test, and their pitching staff is one of with the relentless bats of Xavier. In the best in the usual run-machine Saturday's first game, the Irish fell variety ofbaseball played in the Mid­victim to a I 5 hit barrage, including 
The bot bat of sophmore Chris Flynn (three west. Purdue threw four pitchers at five doubles and a home run. Mike 
homers in 35 at-bats), pictured above in action the Irish. including their ace, junior 
earlier this season, could not help the Irish against Rex Gingerich. see BASEBALL, page 11 






