Revue review -Inside 

ND Senate considers proposal to restructure 
ByJ. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY cials, who will finalize all major deci­News Staff sions. "Because the goal is to take power 
A major proposal for restructur­away from appointed individuals ing student government currently •s and into the hands of elected offi­being considered by the Student cials it is necessary to restructure Senate, although no plans have yet the composition of the ~nate," been finalized. Holst said. 
The goal of restructuring is to Bill Healy, student body presi­centralize · the power of student dent, said his original intent in the government into the senate and the disbandment proposal was office ofthe student body president. centralization. "You must centralize To attain this goal, a decision was power in the hands of the few, ot­reached to rebuild student govern­herwise you have competing ment as a whole. powers which lead to internal bick­
"The ultimate goal of the restruc­ering," he said. turing is to consolidate all authority: Healy said he believes the money, power, influence, into the proposal in the fall was not studied Student Senate," said Brian Holst, well enough. He advocates the chairman of the restructuring com­restructuring process being done by mittee. a separate committee who could 
"To accomplish this we must look iron out the plan, leaving its im­at the relations between Student plementation to the ~nate. Senate and the other government "The way they are handling it is structures," Holst said. good. It will consolidate the student 
He added that the proposal will 
see SENATE, page 6
emphasize the role of elected offi-
Marcos, Aquino rivalry clashes today in Philippine election 
Associated Press Aquino of leading the country Aquino, 53, was voting on her year betore the end of his current created by the murder of her hus­toward communism. family's sugar plantation, Hacienda term ended, partly because of band, who was shot to death in 
MANILA, Philippines -Filipinos Regular campaigning ended by Luisita, 70 miles north of the: capital American pressure. August 1983 while being escorted cast ballots •oday to determine law at midnight Wednesday. in Tarlac province. American officials made dear that by a miltary guard from a commer­whether they will be led by Fer­Marcos supporters predicted he The election attracted they recognize Aquino as a worthy cial airliner that brought him home: dinand Marcos, who has held power would win with 53 percent of the widespread interest in the United candidate despite her lack of politi­from voluntary exile in the: United for two decades, or Corazon Aquino, vote. Aquino said she would need 65 States because of the close political, cal experience. Her candidacy was States. who~ husband was the president's percent to compensate for the fraud financial and military relations bet­main political rival until he was as­and cheating she expected from the ween the two-countries. Both can­sassinated. president's people. didates have pledged to retain the 
'No win situation,' says prof 

Cardinal jaime Sin, spiritual leader strategic U.S. bases located here ­
Aquino issued an election eve ByJOHN HEASLY The: elections are an attempt by
of the dominant Roman Catholic Aquino at least until 1991 when the statement in the form of a prayer: 
Staff Reporter current Philippine President Fer­

community, urged people to be or­current agreement expires and"deliver us from this evil, this crisis 
dinand Marcos to "legitimize him­which 20 years of evil rule has 
derly and avoid violence. "One little Marcos beyond that time. 
incident, one single spark could U.S. officials have put increasing Today for the first time since 1969 self' according to Moody.
brought us." She holds Marcos 
ignite a raging fire," he said. pressure on Marcos for his failure to free presidential elections are being Faced with a dwindling base of responsible for Benigno Aquino's Hundreds of soldiers and riot quell a growing communist rebel held in the Philippines. supporters, Marcos called for the: death. 
police guarded the presidential threat and have demanded military, "The conventional wisdom is that presidential election in attc:'mpt to Marcos said in his final statement palace last night. Marcos, 68, was to economic and social reforms. Marcos will steal the election," said raise his popularity and lend an air of that the election was "not a battle vote in Batac, his hometown 250 Marcos called the special Notre Dame government professor 
see ELECTION, page 6

between good and evil." He accuses miles north of Manila presidential election more than a Peter Moody. 

APPitoto 

Marcos and opponentCorazonAqutno. Millions of citizens will vote In the national election. Related stories below. 
Three stores and lounge open in new LaFortune basement 
This graphic details the final 
layout of the basement of LaFortune 
Student Center. The basement is still 
under construction. The Ticket 
Stub, The Cellar, Irish Gardens 
Flower Shop and the Lounge, all on 
the west side of the basement, are 
now open. 
1 The Ticket Stub (open) 
2 The Cellar(open) 
3 Barber 
4 Copy Machine 
5 Irish Gardens (open) 
6 Lounge (open) 
7 First Source Travel Office 
8Restrooms 
9 Sweets shop operated by Uni­
versity Food Services 
10 University Hair Stylists 
11 Computer store 
12 Storage 
13Storage 
14Gameroom 
15Empty 
16 The Underground (T-shirt 
shop) 
17 24-hour laundromat 
18 Recreation room -ping 
pong and pool tables 
19 Recreation room • big 

Gnphlc byJctrRu-U

screen televisions 
-----~-~ -----...,._------~------­
--------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, February 7,1986 -page 2

The Observer 
Of Interest 
Taunts of Marquette students fade 

Valentine's flowers and candy usually are 
much appreciated on Feb. 14. Orders fora 1/2lb. box ofFannie Mae mint meltaways and carnationswill be taken today in Flanner's lobby 
as Block Party turns alcohol-free 

from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. The flowers and candy will be delivered on 
Valentine's Day. -The Observer 
The Snite Museum of Art bas announced the opening of"Reconstructions: An Exploration of Form and Feeling," photographs by Richard Stevens. The exhibition opens on Feb. 23 and continues through April 13. Stevens is a professor of photog­raphy in the department ofart, art history, and design at Notre Dame. 
-The Observer 

The annual Tri-military Ball will .be held 
tonight starting at 4:30 in the South Dining Hall. The ball is sponsored by the combined ROTC units at Notre Dame. The band "Voyage" will be featured.-The Observer 
Edgar Chamorro, former leader of the Nicaraguan contras, will speak on "An Insider's Perspective on a Political Solu­tion to the U.S.-Nicaraguan Conflict," Sunday at 8 p.m. in the library auditorium. Chamorro was a director of the FDN, the largest contra organization, from 1982 to 1984 and left because ofincreasing CIA control over that organization. -The Observer 
RASTApresentsReggae Night at Lee's Ribs, 1132 South Bend Ave., to celebrate reggae king Bob Marley's.birthday. WVPE's Dave Allert will be spinning the hottest reggae discs and showing videos ofassorted reggae artists. The festivities begin at 7. Proceeds go to RallyAgainst Starvation group. -The Observer 
The Society ofWomen Engineers is plan­
ning a seminar titled "Women in Engineering: From College to Career." The seminar is scheduled for Feb. 15 from 9 a.m. to 12:45 
p.m. with a luncheon at 1. The seminar is open t? all women en­gineering and math/computer students. The deadlme for luncheon reservations is today. -The Observer 
The Friday Forum continues today at the Center for Social Concerns with Michael Loux, the dean of the College ofArts and Letters. Loux will be speaking on "The College Curriculum and the Special Mission of Notre Dame." The talk is open to faculty and staff from 12:15 to 1. Soup and bread will be available for. n. -The Observer 
The Keenan Revue Party will be held tonight 
after the show in the parlor at Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. There will be refreshments and a disc jockey. All are welcome. 
-The Observer 

A cross country ski race at St. Patrick's County Park and Madeline Bertrand County Park is planned for Sunday. Registration starts at I0 a.m. in the brown barn at St. Patrick's Park with the race beginning at 11. The interstate 5K Gold Pin race ,is open to all ages and levels of skiers. A registration fee of S2 is re­quired on the dayofthe race. For information call St. Patrick's Parkat 277-4828.-The Observer 
Keenan Hall will be sponsoring a Lenten retreat during its Sunday liturgies throughout Lent. The retreat begins this Sunday at 4:30. All are invited. -The Observer 
We can make you laugh tomorrow night at 7 in Washington Hall or you get S25. The Student Activities Board will give you money iftheir comedians can't get you to laugh. Sign up to be acontestant orget a ticket for S2 at the Ticket Stub in LaFortune. ­
The Observer 

Weather 
Bring on the white this 
weekend. There is a 70 percent chance ofsnow diminishing to flurries today with highs in the low 30s. Occasional snow flurries tonight and tomorrow with lows from. 15 to 20 and highs in the upper 20s. -AP 



Design Editor................. Mark McU.ul!hlin Design Assistant.................. Alice Kroeger Typesetters ......................................Pat Clark 
Chuck Papandrea News Editor................... Cindy Rauckhorst Copy Editor .......................Ann Kaltenbach Sports Copy Editor...... Eric Scheuermann VIewpoint Copy Editor..........Sue Dunbar 

VIewpoint Layout...................Rob Banolo Features Copy Editor...............Sam Moore Features Layout ............ Mark Mcuughlin ND Day Editor........................... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor................. MaryJean Sully Ad Desfgn ..................................Fred Nelson Jesse Pesta Allison Fahrenkoph Photographer .................... Hector Moreno 
lbe Observer (liSPS ~99 l--4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.lbe Observer is published by the students ofthe llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $30 per yrar ( •.zo per stmester) by writing11K Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
4M~6. 

lbe Observer is a member or lbe A.Moclaled Press. All reproduction rights are 
re..-rved. 
We are (clap, clap) not dry. We are (clap, clap) not dry. We are (clap, clap) not dry. 
This chant filled the ACC on Feb. 25, 1984, as Notre Dame played host to the Marquette Warrior basketball team. This variation of the traditional Notre Dame cheer was a reaction to the imminent alcohol policy. 
Members ofthe Alcohol Committee had not revealed any ofthe options under consideration, so as to not fuel rumors and speculation. Yet, rumors and speculation were nonetheless circulating around campus. Students for Continued Responsible Drinking passed out hand­bills at that particulargame to protest the possibilityofa dry campus, channeling a growing student unrest on the alcohol issue. .. 
Less than two months later, the alcohol policy was officially announced. It brought an end to underage consumption of alcohol in dorm parties and legal private parties in rooms. It changed the face of the Notre Dame social scene, in ways which are still being discovered. 
Marquette students who attended that game at the 

Frank Lipo 
News Editor 
21 drinking age, are one very visible way in which morality is tied to legality. 
liability is a more important reason why more restr1ct1ons on public drinking have been demonstrated recently. Notre Dame's alcohol policy and the restrictions placed on tailgaters are just two examples of this at Notre Dame. Marquette's latest dif­ficulties with Block Party insurance and Wisconsin's in-~ evitable climb to a 21-drinking age (it is already 19), will eventually affect the lives of Marquette students. 
But will this conscious­
ness of the liablity laws 
change other festivals of the 
ACC laughed at the Notre Dame student cheer. After all, their school was located in Wisconsin, a state with a drinking age of 18 and bars across the street from dorms. 
Less than two years later, the laughter has faded. Mar­quette must confront its own changes in a traditional student event: The Block Party. According to ajan. 30 Marquette Tribune article, Marquette has lost its Block college landscape? Will the Halloween Party at Southern Illinois University or the little 500 ofIndiana Univer­sity be far behind? 

It is impossible to predict the fate of these or other similar events. It also would be foolish to automatically extend this trend to every large public event in which there is the possibility of in­jury or damage to people or property. Especially if al­cohol is part ofthat event. 
Party liability coverage. James Moore, dean of stu­dents at Marquette, said in the Tribune, "One of the problems with Block Party, I think, is the large number of people. The universtty is not able to control all the drinking going on." 
Sound familiar? 
Pat Rombalski, Associated Students ofMarquette Uni­versity Block Party commissioner said the ASMU is looking into the possibility of either a non-alcoholic event to replace the Block Party or a whole week of events to replace the party. "This is all tentative right now," Rombalski said. 
But the fact remains that there are more changes on the horizon. Attitudes in the United States toward drink­ing, especially underage drinking, are changing. There is little chance that America will return to Prohibition, but the trend toward moderation is unmistakeable. 
Although there may be moral sentiment behind some ofthe outrage, the key to the latest wave ofmoderation is a legal one. President Reagan's efforts, which resulted ina tie between federal highway money to states and a And events such as the 
Block Party and the Little 
500 are not restricted to the realm ofcollege life. New Orleans at Mardi GraS time or New Year's Eve in Times Square put the Block Party to shame. 
People from all walks oflife, not just college students, want and need an occasional big party to add something extra to their lives. But someone must always be responsible for such a party in today's society. 
Marquette students are learning that the simple protest which took place during a basketball game two years ago may have been a preview of things to come. 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
, SOCIETY*
+

~******************** 


a@JIJm@©lmiD~H~ a * * 
lt 1349 PORTAGE AVE. lt
* * 
~ SOUTH BEND ~ 
~ ··---•Valuable Coupon•----· ~
* : TWO LARGE PIZZAS : * 
ltlt ' "wwthewrylhlng"" $9·'' ~ 
10 toppings tor only olus tax I1 Topping~ Include ~... ham. boc:on. QIOUIId w
lt I llallan.::..~~.~· I lt 
"'-.. (NO SUilSllMlONS OR DEI..E1lONS) "'-.. 
~ . Volid"""" ccupon at par!lclpati10 um.ec.oa. Cary 1 ...,­
lt 1 *
out only. One ccupon per customer. bpiles; 
~ :, ________@~@wl;~~:___ N.D.U.I ~ 
~ 
._ ...,.­

* I 
I I I lt 
~ I --~..a.:: OIM._.....;~· I ~ ~ I BuyMy size OrigiMIRound Pizu!Pizul• I Jllflt 1 wtth this coupon. 1 ~ 
"'-.. Price varies depending on size and number of '-'.. ~ 1 toppinss ordctcd. Valid with coupon at 1 ~ "'-.. I participating little Cacsart. Carry Out Onlv. I "'-.. ...,.-lxpira: February 21, 1986 ~ 
lt I I *
* I @~@mtm;;~ I lt
! 1--•-•ValuableCoupon•-N.D.u.l ! 
·~******************~· 

-~----------·--·--­
The Observer Friday, February 7,1986 -page 3 
Temperatures, launch vibrations latest suspects in shuttle explosion 
Associated Press 
SPACE CENTER, Houston-Freez­ing temperatures and the vibrations of launch could have combined to cause a solid rocket booster to crack and trigger the explosion that blew apart Challenger, rocketry experts said Wednesday. 
Gary Flandro of Georgia Institute of Technology and Herman Krier of the University of lllinols, both ex­perts on solid-fueled rocketry, said the overnight subfreezing tem­peratures at the Kennedy Space Center just before launch could have caused temperature dif­ferences of ~0 degrees or more bet­ween the inside and the outside of Challenger's two solid rocket engines. 
Such a wide range of tem­peratures, they said, could have 
The Registrar's Office has sent a mailer to each student who is expected to graduate this May. It contained the potential graduate's NAME and HOMETOWN as they will appear in the commencement program and the name as it will appear on the diploma. 
If you have not received a mailer, and expect to graduate this May, : or if you would like to make any changes to either your name or . hometown, please contact t~ Registrar's Office before February 17, 1986. 
Diploma name changes requested after February 17 will require a $10.00 charge. 
In early March, you will receive information about commencement tickets (maximum of 4 per graduate), announcements, cap and gown rentals, etc. 

Daniel H. Winicur, Ph.D 
Dean ofAdministration and University Registrar 
::·.:··:,. 
worked with the stress of vibration to cause a failure in the rocket wall. 
Photos taken after the launch show a jet offlame roaring out ofthe side of Challenger's right solld rocket booster. Some experts believe this flame caused a fuel tank to explode. 
There were no temperature sen­sors In the solld rocket boosters, an omis."ilon that Flandro called "imprudent." 
"Any kind of material like this (solid rocket propellant) is tem­perature sensitive," said Flandro. "Temperature extremes have al­ways been a problem in military rockets and that's why the military 
stores  them  at  controlled  tem­ 
peratues."  
Temperatures  dropped  below  
freezing  at  the  Kennedy  Space  

Center on the night of Jan. 27, and 

The Notre Dame Glee Club presents 
A ROSE AND A LOVESONG 
SINGING VALENTINES Delivered Thursday, Feb. 13 
In person, anywhere at ND or SMC By phone, anywhere in the USA 
Order yours at lunch In the Dining Halls SUNDAY through WEDNESDAY 
when launch day dawned there were icicles on the pad. NASA and the Air Force refuse to release readings from the space center area for launch day, but other sources say the temperatures dropped to a low of 24 degrees during the night and were only at 38 degrees at launch time. 
An executive at Morton Thiokol Inc., manufacturer of the solid rocket engines said the rockets are designed to operate when the average temperature of the propel­lant is 40 degrees. He said each 1.2 million-pound rocket is so large that it would take a month-long soak in low temperatures for the bulk tem­perature to reach 40 degrees. 
"I'm not saying that temperature couldn't have had some effect," said the executive, who asked not to be identified. 
1986 Japanese Mombusho Award presented to senior at Notre Dame 
Dame student to win this award. 
Although criteria for selection as a recipient of this award was not specific, Fehlner thought his knowledge of the language helped him perform well on the exam. 
"Having taken the exam myself, I know that the exam is very rigorous," said Michael Brownstein, one of Fehlner's Notre Dame lan­guage professors. 
After a semester, Fehlner will have the option to take an entrance exam for a graduate school where he will pursue a master's degree. 
If Fehlner opts not to pursue a master's degree in Japan, he sald he wants to return to the United States and either enter the job market or attend graduate school. 
This will not be Fehlner's first trip to Japan. In addition to llvlng in England for a while and travelling extensively throughout Europe, he spent his sophomore year in Japan in Notre Dame's program. 
So he would have "more time to practice the language," Fehlner took the following year off and stayed In Japan. 
He first became Interested in the Japanese because of a high school teacher. Fehlner heard of the Mom­busho Award from George Mlnamiki, assistant professor of modern and classical languages at Notre Dame. With the help of Minamiki and Brownstein, Fehlner pursued his interest In theJapanese. 
Fehlner sald the Japanese courses and programs available at Notre Dame played an important role In his decision to attend the University. 
Notre Dame has a Japanese Majors Program, which includes a Japanese language course for each year ofcol­lege with supportive courses from the departments of history, govern­ment, business, theology and com­munication. 
Correction 

Because of an editing error, an incorrect date was reported in an Of Interest item yesterday. The Ensemble Company of the Cin­cinnati Opera will perform Thursday night, Feb. 13 at O'Laughlin Auditorium. The Ob­server regrets the error. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

Japan..,c:: securities market under the direction of a japanese profes­
By GARRETI KANEHANN 
News Staff 
sor. Thomas Fehlner, a Notre Dame After making a proposal and senior from South Bend, has 
taking a three hour exam, Fehlner received the 1986 Mombusho submitted a detailed application Award, an honor which allows him 
which was reviewed by a panel in to study three semesters in a Washington. The approved applica­Japanese university. 
tion then went to Tokyo for final 
In addition to the education, reviewing. Fehlner will receive transportation Fehlner competed against stu­to and from Japan and a monthly al­
dents in five other midw~stern lowance equal to $865. 
states for the award. The selection Starting in October, he will 
process yielded five students includ­research the deregulation of the 
Fehlner, the seventh Notre 
--~·
..-· 
APPboco 

Edward Corrigan, father of Christa McAuliffe, helps his wife Grace down the steps of St. jeremiah's Church in Framingham, Mass., where more than 400 attended a ceremony Wednesday to remember the hometown girl who "reached for the stars." Latest shuttle update at left. 
Friday, February 7,1986-page 4
The Observer 

Teen-age AIDS victim achieves partial victory 
Assoclatcd Press 

LAFAYETTE, Ind. -Teen-age AIDS victim Ryan White can return to school provided the Howard County health officer approves, a 
•state health department appeals board ruled yesterday. 
But the state Board of Special Education Appeals, while ruling that the boy should be allowed in class, overturned an earlier state Depart­ment of Education ruling that or­dered him allowed back in the classroom immediately. 
"It's another delay," said Charles Vaughan, attorney for the 14-year­old Kokomo boy. 
'We're back to square one," said jeanne White, the boy's mother. "I feel a decision should have been made todav." 
The hearing was the fourth and last step in the White family's appeal through the state education system for permission for Ryan to attend 
classes at Western Middle School.  
Yesterday's  ruling  followed  a  
decision  in  the  boy's  favor  by  a  

hearing officer in November. 

School officials viewed yester­day's ruling as a partial victory. 
"Finally, they're listening to us," said Daniel Carter, president of the Western School Board. 
White was barred from classes in last summer after his acquired immune deficiency syndrome was disclosed. 
The boy contracted AIDS through treatment for hemophilia and is physically able to attend school, doctors have said. 
White returned Wednesday night from a four-day trip to Rome where he was interviewed on Italian televi­sion about his disease. 
Western school officials have argued he could infect other stu­dents ifallowed in class . 
AIDS, which interferes with the body's ability to resist infection, is nearly always fatal and no cure has been discovered. 
The disease is transmitted through sexual contact and ex­changes of bodily fluids, and not through casual association, health experts have said. 
Supporters ofthe Western School Corp.'s decision have argued that health officials are unable to guaran­tee that Ryan would not infect other students, however. Several people at the hearing wore badges that said, "the AIDS puzzle is not complete." 
"The evidence shows 6 percent, over 1,000 cases, where they do not know how the disease was trans­mitted," said David Day, attorney for the school corporation. 
White, wearing blue jeans and a jeans jacket, appeared at the hearing, along with his mother. He did not testify before the board. 
Vaughn argued that the board should immediately order school of­ficials to allow White back into the classroom. 
Board chairman John Mefford, a professor of education~ at Indiana University at South Bend, censored Vaughn, saying the attorney's remarks about school officials were becoming too heated. 

Your local 7-11 Stores, proud sponsors of 'Big Gulp Fever', wish to recognize Miss Trena Keys, ND Womens Basketball all-time leading scorer with 1 ,337 points and counting 
Support your local7-11 Stores 
e 
IMPRESS THAT SPECIAL PERSON! 
Give them a suntan AND an acu-massage 
BED 10 visits $39.00 NEW! Acu-massage bed 1 visit $4.50 $3 per 15 minutes BOOTH 20 visits $39.00 Buy 3 visits, get one free 1 visit $2.00 

Associated Press 
BOSTON -A study that set out to learn the quality of doctors' hand­writing has found, to no one's surprise, that it's very bad indeed. 
Dr. Karen White and john Beary 3rd of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington screened the handwriting of 50 physicians in patients' charts. 

"We conclude that a considerabk portion of most handwritten medi­cal records are illegible, which con­firms the common but unpublished wisdom on this subject," they wrote. 
They found that 16 percent of the 
. words in the reports were illegible, as were 80 percent of the doctors' signatures. Because of the poor pen­manship, 42 percent of the patient 

reports could not be fully com­prehended. "The price we pay for illegibility 
<Kiudcs !()wer quality of care, a waste ofprofessional time, potential leal problems and a waste of resources in duplicating data that are functionally lost because of il· legibility," the doctors wrote in a let­ter in yesterday's New England journal of Medicine. 

WOMEN'S ROLE COORDINATORS OF 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESENT 
GENERAL ADMISSION-­TICKETS TO BE DISTRIBUTED 
ON FEB. 7 THRU THE TICKET STUB, BASEMENT, LAFORTUNE 
-NO CHARGE WITH STUDENT 1.0.­
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10th 7:30--WASHINGTON HALL 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road

1M-HAWA1&N Mishawaka 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT* STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL * THE CLASSES 

The Observer Friday, February 7,1986 -page 5 


API'hoto 

the Hailes shopping complex, seriously injuring sixpeople. Story at right. 
Third bomb explosion brings fear to Parisiens 
Associated Press Apolice officer said the pollee sta· 
tion In front of the Forum des Hailes 
PARIS· The third bomb explosion received an anonymous telephone in Paris in 48 hours wrecked part ofa warning that there would be: a born· crowded und~rground sporting bing on the first level of the com­goods store Wednesday, wounding plex. It came approximately 10 nine people and inspiring fears of a minutes before the explosion two terrorist campaign connected to levels below. events In the Middle East. Twenty-one people have been 
Six of the wounded were In wounded In the three blasts · eight serious condition, officials said. The Monday night at a shopping arcade bomb went off at 6:05 p.m. In the on the Champs Elysees, four at a FNAC·Sports shop on the third un-large Latin Quarter bookstore Tues­derground level of the ultramodern day night, and nine at the sports Forum des Hailes, the city's largest store. commercial complex. An unexploded bomb was found 
Dozens of police cars, fire trucks Monday night In a public lavatory on and ambulances rushed to the com-the top observation level ofthe Eiffel plex built on the site of the old Tower. wholesale food market. A group calling Itself the 
The store was plunged into dark-Committee of Solidarity with Arab ness and was evacuated lm· and Middle East Political Prisoners mediately. Shoppers estimated that ,claimed responslblllty for the born­up to 300 people were In It when the bing at the Galerle Claridge on the bomb exploded. Champs Elysees. 

Get out of the Hustle & Bustle, Step Into the 
'Turn of the Century Look' 
Tiffany Lamps & Shades Starting at $45.00 
Intenor Destgns of all Ktnds Stuffed Animal Zoo-Dolls and Clowns. Too! 
Valentines Gifts Certificates for Hot Air Balloon rides 
$75.00 
20% off Store-Wide (excluding lamps) 

blast in Paris since Monday. A bomb exploded in 
~ETC>VVELISl 
DEFINITELY YC>U! 
Happy Birthday, Meghan Rafferty 
Love, 



Do you have a favorite band that you want to bring to Notre Dame? 
Would you like to be the person who decides what comedy acts, movies, and plays are shown on campus? 
SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ENLIVEN THE ENTIRE CAMPUS WHILE GAINING PRACTICAL BUSINESS EXPERIENCE. THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
;~: 
. =:·

IS INTERVIEWING FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS FOR THE 1986-87 SCHOOL YEAR: 
BIB: :.:~;~~:; ::.:;::::sm:::t¥;::;:;:;:~:·;:···:.:;;: ;.:::::;;:::::: :~:::::::::;:;;:::w;l::mit;~:m::mmmmmm:n;r:m::;:;;:\\M Campus Entertainment Commissionermwlwil~ 
twr1~~~-~~&f@li~:r;;.:;:;;~~: ••~M~;~;l;::: ;:;::::;::;::m:•;•••i:'•~•:li::mi:::::;:;::;::;l;::~;:u::;:::;;:M1::;:;:1m;&:::lrf:;;;:;::::M:;:m~l&lw\11tMR; Calendar Commissioner ll, m§BH 
: :· :: :-: 
·= ·= = ::= ·=· .=. ·=. ·= . . . . . ·. ·. . ·. .. .= . == == = ; r·;· :~: : ·:: .. 
. .·.. •,··. :·. :· ::,: : •,:.: :-·. •' ·.: : .. :·. ~-~ -~ ' . 
ttlti!ms·•m•:Cultural Arts Commissioner !1111Bi*11·..o!&;tm r&tlll.t\ili~WrJ±1:~m&mm&®ll1rB~tt~il&&arn~&v.1r.al'aBBRideas and Issues Commissioner llill~tBi.\1 Movie Commissioner ·;; ·.: Musical Entertainment Commissionerfi11I~R Publicity Commissioner a..--.r~~~• •••••:hlrUilllll1BI Personnel Commissioner B~IB• ~ ~ Services Commissioner r.llli•Special Events Commissioner 



Applications are available In the S.A.B. offices 2nd Floor laFortune Applications are due February 20. Any questions? Call 239-n57 
,• : -~ :' ·. •' . . 

:-: •, I ~ ! 
The Observer Friday, February 7,1986 -page 6 
Election 
continued from page 1 
respectability to his administration, according to Moody. 
Marcos, in his more than 20 years of office, "has managed to offend everybody at one point or another," 
said Moody.  
"Nobody  likes  him.  He  has  
alienated  the  middle-class,  the  
church, and the communists."  

Marcos' ability to run the country has suffered because of his handling of the Benigno Aquino murder in­vestigation and the Philippine populace's common belief that Marcos and members of the Philippine military were involved in the August 1983 assasination, ac­cording to Moody. 
Moody said his "biggest worry," should Cory Aquino win today's election, is that "she won't be able to keep order" and that political and social chaos will ensue. 
"It's a depressing situation . . . it's a no-win situation." 
Aquino's ability to keep together an administration which is currently united only by its anti-Marcos stance is unlikely in Moody's opinion. 
Aquinio's popular appeal is based upon her "un-tainted past" but, said Moody, "that does not necessarily qualify her to rule the country." 
"She doesn't seem the type" to assert herself if"pushed around" ac­cording to Moody. 
Marcos has the backing of the Philippine army, in particular the top commanding ranks, who would fear reprisal from Aquino's ad­ministration should she win said Moody. 
The Philippines, a former U.S. colony, contain both a major U.S. Navy and air base which are key to 
y.s. military strategy. 
Lease fees paid to the Philippines for the naval base at Subic Bay and air station at Clark Field are a major source ofrevenue for the Philippine government, said Moody. 
The naval base at Subic Bay is the largest U.S. Navy base in the world. 

The Russian presence at such places as Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam, a former U.S. Navy base, is a source of concern for Thailand, Communist and Nationalist China, andJapan. 
An American presence in the Southeast Pacific is seen as favorable by many neighboring nations such as Japan which depends upon U.S. military presence to keep safe its oil deliveries from the Persian Gulf. 
Marcos was first elected in 1965, reelected in 1969, and declared martial law in the Philippines in 1972. Marcos' declaration which "put an end to political and civil liberty," according to Moody, was an attempt to bring about an end to a growing communist threat, a decrease in rising crime rates, and social changes, all ofwhich were not being brought about through tradi­tional democratic means. 
Declaring the country was being run by an oligarchy, Marcos saw martial law as a way to bring about these changes, said Moody. 
None of these reforms have taken place and these situations have only worsened in the interim, according to Moody, the deterioriating condi­tions being brought to a head by the Aquino murder and subsequent in­vestigation. 


Senate 
continuedfrompage 1 
voice," said Steve Taeyaerts, student 
body senator. 
Addressing the responsibility that will fall on elected officials, Taeyaerts said, "That's great. It brings some accountability to stu­dent government. For once the senators will have defined roles and defined reponsibilities." 
The nine-member committee, ap­pointed on Jan. 13, represents a cross section ofinvolved individuals including class representatives, hall presidents, student senators, and non-political members. Composing the committee are are Brian Holst, Steve Georgi, K.C. Culum, Jim Hagan, Vince Willis, Maher Mouas­her, Glen Sgamboti, Mark Conces and Philip Coghlan. 
The committee's goal is to present a revised constitution to the senate for approval in time to implement the policies for student elections. 
Student body elections are scheduled for March 4, as approved by the senate earlier this semester. University policy states that all stu­dent body elections, including all runoffs, must be completed by March 10. 
According to Tom Brennan, chair­man ofOmbudsman, "Senate set the date at March 4th to help facilitate the restructuring so that everything could be finished on time." 
The proposal outlines a 28­member senate composed of one senator from each dorm, with the exception of two from Flanner and Grace, and two representatives from off-campus. This plan constitutes a change from five district senators working with class representatives and campus organization chairmans to form a senate. 
The new senate will contain five standing committees to serve as steering committees for govern­ment and campus functions. These committees include Student Con­cerns, Campus Life, Student Ac­tivities Board, Finance Budget Committee, and Rules Committee. 
The Rules Committee serves as a periodic check on the operations of the other committees. 
The committees will be headed jointly by a presidential appointee and a small group ofvoting senators. The appointed official would not have a final vote on matters. 
Also formed will be an executive council, composed of representatives from student or-


9:30-1:30 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 


Did you know.. 
In the unfortunate event that you are charged with a violation of the rules of this University or of your hall, you have certain rights. 
Do not act without carefully examining your rights as a student. Your hall judicial board chairperson can help you obtain Information which will beHer equip you to handle the judicial process of the University. 
This ~part advertisement series are excerpts taken from A Manual Of Students' Rights published by the Judicial Council and available free of charge through your hall judicial board member. 


Know Your Rights 
•This advertisement Is the final one of 5 

on Students' Rights when accused of a University offense. 
(Clip and Post) 

Student Government 
ganizations such as Ombudsman, Hall Presidents' Council and the Judicial Board. Class officers also will be represented. 
One purpose of the council is to avoid conflicts in event scheduling by separate groups. It also serves as an advisory group and "establishes channels of ·communication, so when communication has to occur you know where to go," said Holst. 
"We won't lose student voice. We will be channelling it into one voice," Taeyaerts added. 

The student body president office will be redefined in role but not in structure. The president is free to choose his cabinet as he deems necessary as long as no members are voting senators. He will be given a veto over the senate which can be overridden with a two-thirds senate ·vote. 
With the amount of power given 
to the senate, a counter balance of power is needed from the presi­dent's office, Healy said. 

"The student body president may be i\)" touch with an issue or ad­ministrator in a way that 28 senators may n1Jt be," he explained. 
But ifthe president feels the need to veto, the senate has the override. "When you get a two-thirds vote from the senate, then everyone has time to look at the issue closely and it can be implemented solidly," Healy sairt. 
The Hall Presidents' Council also will be redefined in role but not in structure. It will lose its legislative stature, and its role will be limited to functioning as a dorm council, not as a forum to address campus-wide issues. 
"I think that all of the hall presi­dents feel that the redefined role of the HPC is a good one," said Mark Conces, Flanner Hall co-president. "We can't carefully concern our­selves with everything that is going on in the dorm and be a legislative body for the entire campus." 
The process for the adoption of the new constitution involves several steps. First, the committee presents the proposal to Student Senate. A senate committee then brings up the proposal for ratifica­tion, and the proposal comes up for a vote by the senate and HPC. 
For an amendment to the con­stitution to pass, at least a two-thirds vote in favor from both the senate and the HPC is needed. A tie in the 16-member senate would be broken by the student body vice-president. A tie in the 24-member HPC would be broken by the chairman of the cguncil. 








Accent 

Friday, February 7,1986-page 7 
Fashionable 'New Morality' has no substance 
Father Robert Griffin 
LeHers to a Lonely God 
J 
udging from the talk shows on television, I conclude that Dr. Ruth Westheimer, the therapist, is now the Abraham Lincoln ofthe sexually inhibited. As the guest host on the "Johnny Carson Show" last week, Joan Rivers treated Dr. Ruth with the kind of respect Bishop Sheen used to get when he said Mass for the nuns at the seminary. A typical question asked of Dr. Ruth: "What should you say to a child entering his parents' bedroom while they are making love?" 
Or. Ruth was very firm with her answer: a lock on the bedroom door would help keep the children out during lovemaking. More im· portantly, the child should be warned to stay out ofbedrooms where the door is closed. Parents likewise should respect their children's privacy, leaving them undisturbed behind their own closed doors. The children may also be engaged in pastimes involving sexual expression, for which it Is important to them to be alone. 
We've gone through a sexual revolution. The talk show host asks the rock star, "How old were you when you said goodbye to in­nocence and all that?" The rock star may hesitate, but he finally tells us more than we need to know. A cliche that began when Ernest Hemingway asked, "Did you feel the earth move under you?" Anum­ber ofcelebrities are surprisingly frank about the frequency with which the earth moves under them. Ayoung doctor on "St. Elsewhere" contracted AIDS. "I've rolled fn the clover with lots ofwomen," he admits. "Ifl saw someone I liked, I went after her. I have no way of telling which one I got the virus from." 


The moral climate encourages permissiveness. Yuppies must need a scorecard to play the mating game. As an old-fashioned priest, I wish the world were simpler. I think I have my head on straight as a symbolic person representing a tradition ofself-restraint. I feel sorry for the mistakes people make. My job is to help them rethink their values, ifthey turn to me. 
I'm not a crusader. By virtue of ordination, I'm an agent ofgrace who tries to replace pain with peace. Religion builds bridges of mercy from the states ofalienation to the shores ofthe home turf. As a religious professional, I don't have all the answers. I'm not half as dog­matic as Dr. Ruth. I have no creden­tials as a coach giving lockerroom speeches. I meet people wanting to enter the game; others are already game veterans. I stay very still until I'm spoken to-I'm not God. 
Priests spend a lot oftime waiting for Catholics to search through their consciences for the answers of conscience. Priests get invited to work hard to make Catholics feel at ease with answers they were taught in childhood. 
Catholics coming to confession wait to see ifthe priest will throw the book at them. You can feel their nervousness as they fumble for words that will make major league sins sound like aberrations from the Little League. Sometimes I smile with sympathy at the euphemisms. I know from experience how the euphemisms are valued as a replacement ofstreet language or phrases without reticence that call a spade a spade: "I had a few too many, Father, and I fought with my old lady," meaning, "I went on a three-day bender, and my wife is in the hospital because !'beat her up." 
Catholics have learned how to describe earthiness with surprising delicacy. After 32 years, I recognize the codes that cover a multitude of sins. I need to pay attention to hear what the penitent more or less wants me to know. Later, he may worry if he wonders whether, out ofembarrassment, he unintention­ally deceived the priest. I ask him questions to let him see I get the picture. 
I hang onto the tradition as best I can. Throwing the book at flawed human beings wasn't a tradition Vatican II had to change. Spiritual bullying seldom helped a soul in search ofgrace. I'd like w tack up a sign on my side of the box: "Remember, pal: I'm on your side." The battles Chri~tians fight are with the enemy within: the hungers and 
restlessness of the spirit looking for 
a chance to be happy. 

The world and the flesh are troublesome ifyou have learned to rely on them as angels oflight. The devil, ifhe exists, hides his face. Lies have the devil as their lilther, the Bible says. It would be self­deceptive to blame the devil for the lies you tell yourself. But a troubled conscience may mean -to use Bibli­cal imagery -that the Christ in me is trying to rout the devil in me. 
The Catholic and his confessor are teammates on the side wanting truth to win. The priest may be doing the devii's work for him ifhe puts on the gloves as a contender, roughing up the penitent with sarcasm. Confession gets a bad name ifthe penitent leaves the box feeling he's just gone I 0 rounds with a hard-nosed grouch. 
Tradition means I don't reinvent the religion every morning when I wake up. Tradition means the dogmas have a history, and that the moral teachings handed on to me are useful as insights, tested by experience, to help me sort out my personal convictions. "Be not the first by whom the new are tried,/Nor yet the last to lay the old aside," wrote Pope, the poet (not the Bishop ofRome). This, for me, means trying on the tradition, to see ifit still fits. 
In New York, an old-time psyc­hology professor got on my back for being conservative. like the pope, in Ill}' views on birth control. I said, ·•couples JP::ke up their own minds about the number of children they wish to have. I don't argue with 
them, or try to make them 
answerable to me for their deci­
sions ofconscience. But in a society 
that discourages large lilmilies, and 
disapproves of them as bur­
densome, I feel proud that the 
Church urges Christians to be un­
reservedly open to keeping the race: 
going." 
The veteran Catholic woman, who wouldn't lie to me, answered, "I was number 12 in a lilmily of 1'5 children. My mother's doctor told her to stop having children, after I was born, ifshe didn't want to die. The priest said to her, 'Which is worse: to lose your life, or lose your soul?' Is that what you mc:an, Father, when you talk of the Church's being open to keeping the race going?" 
I answered honestly, "I've never known a priest who would give such harsh advice. The Dark Ages were over before I was ordained." I tell you this story to show you I don't win all the arguments. 
De. Ruth, Ann Landers and Miss Manners are the new gurus, and they make me nervous with their glibness. I rely as a conservative on a tradition that seems tried and true: it's the only port I have in the storms of the revolution. The "New Morality" opens up more cans of worms than you can shake a stick at, to mingle metaphors. The genera­tion that has made Dr. Ruth a household word is already in trouble. Priests like me -by now, an anachronism or a dying breed, perhaps -are not necessarily savior figures. But a country wishing to save its soul needs better shepherds than the whiz kids on the talk shows. 


Air Force, Navy and SMU run over by Irish express 
This is the 17th episode in The Observer's serial publication ofthe Notre Damefoot­ball story, "The Gipper's Ghost." In last week's episode, destiny seemed to be with the Fighting Irish right from the start in their clash against thefourth-ranked Miami Hurricanes, as a "mysterious" eight-second blackout aided Dutch Reagan's (the ghost of George Gipp) touchdown return ofa Miami 
punt; after this auspicious beginning, the Irish decimtlted the Hurricanes 56-0. 
The Glpper's.Ghost 
B 
y noon Sunday, a ha..~tily painted bed­shet."t banner was draped above the entranct." to Dutch Reagan's dormitory. It said, "Sorin Hall· Home ofthe Gipper's Ghost." 
When Rt."agan saw it, he thought, "Ifthey only knew!" 
John Thornton's column was being pasted into scrapbooks all over campus. Fatht."r Simon, tht." hall rector, had even arranged for an t."nlarged photostat to be made and tacked onto Reagan's door. 
I 

The Glpper's Gho~ 
Headlined GIPPER'S GHOST HAUNTS MIAMI, the story read a..~ follows: "The spirit of Notre Dame turned out the lights on Miami last night in a terrifying display of skill and speed. The Fighting Irish played as if possessed, as if the ghosts of the legend of Notre Dame had arisen to reclaim their lost heritage of victory. Ifso, then there can be little doubt that the Gipper's ghost lived in the heart of Dutch Reagan, who disap­peared the first time he held the ball and reappeared at the goal line for Notre Dame's first touchdown of the game. 
"Invisible in the blackness ofa dark October night, the Gipper's Ghost led the reincarnation of the Fighting Irish ofNotre Dame. Let future opponents beware: the 


House That Rockne Built is haunted indeed. In one eerie moment when an act ofGod shook down the thunder from the Indiana sky, a bolt oflightning woke up the echos of Notre Dame's past and served notice that the slumbering giant ofcollege football has been reborn." 
The remainder of the story summarized the scoring details. A sidebar reported that Musco Lighting's public relations people were at a loss to explain the momentary blackout. The Miami coach had only three words to explain it: "Deus ex machina." An act ofGod. 
At the team dinner Monday evening, the players were not only ready to believe in ghosts, they had started to believe in miracles. More importantly, they were starting to believe in themselves. Maybe their dream of of finishing in the Top l 0 
could come true. But first, they had to deal 
with Air Force. 
The Falcons from Colorado Springs had 

emerged as the football powerhouse of 
America's military academies. In 1984, they 
had become the first service academy ever 
to defeat Notre Dame three seasons in a 
row. Anyone who thought the Air Force 

lacked infantry never faced their rushing 
attack. 
On the third weekend in October, the 

Irish ruled the skies, making six intercep­
tions. 
Irish 4 2 -Air Force 0. 
The next week the Irish ranked in the top 
15 in all the major college football polls. 
On the final weekend ofOctober, Hart 

Collins fired salvo after salvo into Navy's 
secondary. Shenandoah Lee picked off two 
passes for touchdowns. The Midshipmen 
avoided being the third straight Irish 
shutout victim by kicking a last-minute field 
goal. Final score: Notre Dame 38 · Navy 3. 
The Irish were on a roll. After their sixth straight victory, the pollsters could no longer ignore Notre Dame. Including the disastrous opening-game loss to Michigan, the Irish had outscored their opponents 230 to 92. They were averaging more than 400 yards total defense. The defense had not surrendered a touchdown in 17 con­secutive quarters. Their record was 6-I-1. 
The Associated Press ranked the Irish No. 6, United Press International No. '5, and USA Today had moved them up to No. 4. 
Scouts from five major and minor bowls were on hand to watch Notre Dame defeat Southern Methodist 48-0. 
Seven straight victories. In the past five games, Notre Oame had put 208 point.o; on the scoreboard to their opponents' six. 
Bowl bids would be extended tonight. 

Maybe this year the Fighting Irish wouldn't have to spend New Year's Day watching television at home. 
Unless.... 

To be continued ... 
From "The Glppcr'o Ghoot," copyri(lht 1\IH, by Robcn Quackenbush. Published by O'Connor PubHahing Co. R~~:prlnted by pcrmJsaion. 
~~~ ~------~ ­




~i~~~_()__i_It__t__________________F_rid-~-,F-ebr_u~--7,_198-6--p-age_s 
Corazon Aquino fails to be viable election choice 
This is the second article in a two-part series on Philippine politics, and will be devoted to discussing the Presidential elec­tion that is going to be held today. Although the election has received a considerable amount of media exposure, resulting in al­most daily coverage, my intent is to hopefully provide a more candid anaylsis. In my previous column, the following charges were made: 1 ) Corazon "Cory" Aquino is not a viable presidential candidate; 2) The United States made a gross error in calling for early elections with the hope of bolstering the regime ofPresident Marcos; 3)The election is a sham. 

JimLahren 
guest column 
The U.S. media, to a large degree, have characterized Aquino as the better candidate and have supported the ouster of Marcos. Al­though I am not a supporter of Marcos, his election and not that ofAquino is in the best interest of the Philippine people for many reasons. Ifelected, Aquino has promised to try Marcos for human rights' violations, including the murder of her husband, Benigno "Ninoy" Aquino. 
This threat, in addition to the far-ranging economic and political interests that Marcos has, will offer him two choices: maintain power or leave the country. From this standpoint, Marcos has no intention oflosing the election and will do everything in his power to win, and he will. For this reason, the election is a sham. The voter is not offered a choice. The important question is, how flagrant must electoral abuses be to ensure the election of Marcos. 
Make no mistake, Marcos does have a con­siderable amount of support. But, if Filipinos perceive the election to be grossly rigged (by Filipino standards), civil war is a likely outcome. In effect, the U.S. government has destablized the country with what they had hoped would offer stability -an electoral mandate for the current regime. 
The support that Marcos does have is for good reason. Many question Aquino's creden· tials. Ifelected, this will be the first time that she will hold public office · and it will be that of president. The American public would never elect someone to such an office with the little experience she has. Up until the elec­tion, she was a housewife. Her main appeal to voters is her apparent sincerity, but perhaps more importantly, a vote for her is a vote against Marcos. 
One of her campaign workers that I inter­viewed said, "Democracy is good; if she (Aquino) is bad, then it should at least be easier to get rid of her than Marcos because she will not be so entrenched." With the assas­sination of her husband, she has received a tremendous amount ofpopular support in her fight against the government. For this reason, the badly divided opposition has cashed in on her notoriety, and has formed a united front behind her. 

I question her sincerity because ofsome of her election promises, one being land~reform. Her f.unily has considerable interests in one of the most important Philippine export com­modities -sugar. She has much to lose if her policies of land reform ~e properly imple­mented. 
Furthermore, some in the opposition are very disappointed that Laurel, her vice presidential running mate, is on the ticket. The charge is leveled that he is more con­cerned about his personal political future, and as such, is not a true member of the opposi­tion. They also charge that he formed his op­position party, UNIDO, only after he left the New Society Movement when he fell out of favor with Marcos. Some say that if he were put in power, Filipinos could expect 30 more years ofa Marcos-styled regime, since he once supported the government and the tactics that were used. 
Many Filipinos that do support Marcos believe that he is the best person to lead the country. Granted, he may be corrupt, but they argue that his authoritarian style is needed to keep the country united (due to the com­munist insurgency) and to industrialize. I do not agree with this assessment. As quoted from a representative of the U.S. State Depart­ment, "The economy is an economic basket case." The Filipino people can accept zero growth in the gross national product for at least the next five years. Most critics fault Marcos' economic policies -especially those ofcrony capitalism, where personal friends of his have assumed leadership ofmajor corpora­tions with his help. 
The best hope the Filipino people have might very well be in the military. As ind­icated, Marcos will not leave power until he is forced to. He has the ability to remain in power as long as he has the backing of the military. I personally feel that a coup d'etat, brought about by the armed forces, might be in the best interest of the people. From this point, economic and land reforms could then be carried out with little resistance from oligarchic interests. Finally, democratic elec­tions could then be held, since the guarantor of free elections, the military, would be neutral. 
jim Labren is a junior government and in­ternational relations major. 


A real tragedy shocks America's young children 
My best friend from high school is now a sixth-grade teacher in nearby Kendallville, Ind. Her students were not watching the Space Shuttle Challenger take off last week, as so many school children across the country were, but after they learned of the explosion, they quickly tuned into the telecast. 

Mike Wilkins 
here, there and back 
As they watched the tape of the explosion, reactions were varied. Some students were confused, some sad, others angry. And there were some who were amazed; they "oohed and aahed" at the fiery explosion and said it was "neat." They were not being cold or sar­castic · they were as upset as the others when they finally understood what was going on. But after years ofwatching nothingbutfantasy on television, they could not recognize reality, even when the reality was as harsh as the scene they saw over and over again that day. 
The shock these students felt upon learning that the terrifying scene before them was real must have been a rude awakening. These are kids who have seen God knows how many robberies, muggings, and murders in their 12 years or so ofgazing into the idiot box. Death is a way oflife on television. The explosion of the space shuttle meant nothing to them in terms of lives; it was just another display of spectacular special effects. 
But suddenly these kids were faced with reality. The victims this time were not just seven characters who won't be back next week. These were real people, people who left behind kids, just like themselves. The stu­dents must have felt betrayed by television, which had taught them to accept death so easily. Suddenly death was very real -and very painful -even though it was brought to them through the fantasyland oftelevision. 
Although many young'lters were unable to recognize reality on television, those of us who are old enough know that television can be our best link with what is going on in the world. I can still remember sitting in front of the television for hours watching man's first trip to the moon. I looked out the window that night to see ifthe moon looked any different. It didn't, but that was OK, because I had watched Neil Armstrong take his first step and I knew the astronautswere up there whether I could see them from the window or not. 

I can also remember the first shuttle launch and even more importantly, the first shuttle landing. I skipped a class and snuck down into the newspaper office of my high schoool to watch the landing on television. I was so impressed with the idea that we could send a ship into space and then have it land just like it was a big jet. My mind raced as I wondered where our technology would take us next. 
The world as brought to us in our living rooms has not always been pleasant, either. I stayed up late many nights to watch Ted Kop­pell detail the latest developments in the Iranian hostage crisis. I swore in disgust as I watched American flags burning outside our embassy and cried in desperation as I learned ofthe botched rescue attempt. 
But despite all its attempts to bring home the realities ofthe world, television has taught us all to view even reality as a kind offantasy. If we were overcome by the horror ofwatching seven Americans and the dreams of a nation explode over and over again, we knew that we had the option of turning the television off, or at least changing it back to HBO. We had the power to avoid the pain of the moment and that means we have thepower to avoid reality. No matter how bad we hurt or how much we grieved, we could still distance ourselves with the flick ofa switch. 
But for the families of the astronauts, they can't avoid the pain. They can't just change the channel and leave their terror behind. The husbands and wives have to deal with the fact that in the morning, they are going to wake up in bed alone. Each day the children must face another dinner with an empty place at the table. What was reality for us only as long as we remained glued to the television will con­tinue to be reality for the families and friends of the Challenger crew every day for the rest oftheir lives. 
Although our view ofwhat is goingon in the world is often altered by television, watching the shuttle disaster brought home reality more powerfully than anything most of us have ever seen before. Though the option al­ways remained to turn offthe television, many of us could not bring ourselves to do it. The shuttle was bringing space to us, turning our spirits loose with the excitement of new ad­venture and new dreams. To see it explode right before our eyes showed not just those sixth graders but all of us that television can, indeed, bring reality as close as we will ever want it to come. It was a very rude awakening. 
Mike Wilkins is a first-year law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 


Everybody called somebody; nothing happened 
According to the latest edition of the alumni magazine, the University's provost sees beyond the need for more classroom space to acknowledge the need for "more up­to-date facilities with the latest electronic equipment." The vision from the dome is breathtaking. 

Bob Kerby 
guest column 
While waiting for the electronic millen­nium to make its epiphany, would it be un­reasonable to expect the electric lights already installed in the classrooms we already have to work? If teachers could see their notes, their blackboards and their students, maybe they too could glimpse a glimmering of the dome's shining vision of the electronic marvels to come. 
The Niagara Falls Power Complex began pumping electricity into the Republic's light fixtures in I894. The technology to fix a broken classroom light should be available by now. Indeed, once upon a time, before Notre Dame became the Catholic Harvard of the St. 
Joe Valley, the classroom lights did work. One went to a classroom, flicked a switch, and the lights stayed on from the start of a lecture to the end. In no way do I attribute the gloom now engulfing my classrooms to the Univer­sity's new preoccupation with Big Thoughts, for the University remains as committed to quality teaching as it ever was. I just find myself wishing now that some Big Thinker would deign to think about my classroom lights. 
In 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall, one ofthe three banks of overhead lights is dead. The dark fixtures are those farthest from the windows and farthest from the sunlight. About 25 stu­dents are condemned to sit squinting in the perpetual twilight, straining to see anything. Somebody did put a band-aid over the offend­ing switch, along with a note explaining that switching the switch might burn down O'Shaughnessy Hall. But so far nobody has tried to fix the switch. Both my dim, gray stu· 

dents and I are waiting patiently for the band· aid to heal it. 
Room 800 in the library has no windows at all. Three of the eight overhead lights, includ· i'ng the two right over the blackboard are stone dead. The c::ffect reminds me of the soft 
firelight Abraham lincoln used when he was 
learning to read. But most ofmy graduate stu­
dents canalreadyread, so.flickering firelight is 
not quite enough for them. They need to be 
able to discern the itsy-bitsy print in 
footnotes. Ifthis powerhouse of Big Thought 
wants graduate students to become Big 
Thinkers, it should provide enough light for 
them to read footnotes. 
The light show in I06 Cushing Hall is enchanting. About five of the I2 overhead fixtures constantly blink on and off during class. Fortunately, most of the blinking lights are toward the back of the room, punishing only those shy undergraduates who sit too far from the blackboard to see anything anyway. The lights that illuminate the blackboard and my notes just flicker now and then. 
I started to complain about all this the week before the semester convened. I complained through channels. I told the maids, the build­ing crews, a couple of maintenance super­visors, my department... Everybody called somebody. But nothing happened. We even callc:d the number the registrar told us to call in order to get the lights fixed. Nothing hap­pened. 
When I ran into similar problems in two ot­her classrooms last semester, I finally telephoned a secretary who works in the dome for somebody with a Very Big Title. She got my lights fixed for me. But nobody is going to raise her pay for doing favors for teachers, and should it become known that she condes­cends to consort with mere teachers it might compromise her status in the dome. I treasure the memory of the assistance she provided, but I cannot continue to abuse her good offices. 
This semester I therefore invoke the awesome power of the press to get the lights fixed in 204 O'Shaughnessy Hall, 800 library, and I06 Cushing Hall. And I shall count the minutes until I can again see my notes, my stu­dents, my blackboards, and the first faint ray of the provost's dawning day of the electronic classroom to come. Meanwhile, in order to be able to count those minutes while I hunger for the fulfillment of the provost's vision, I may just have all my students bring candles to class. Candles can burn down O'Shaughnessy, too. 
Bob Kerby is a professor in the history department atNotre Dame. 

I I 
:: 
., 



Hittin' 10 with a bang 
CATHERINE COFFEY 
assistantfeatures editor 
s the first performers take the stage for the A 1Oth Annual Keenan Revue, the audience 
waits in anticipation. Will it match up to the 
shows of the past? Will the palpable anticipation 
ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses be 
rewarded? 

Is there a Santa Claus? Ofcourse, it was a great 
show. 

The fun begins with Keenan's version of"A 
Chorus Line." The act "Boys ofthe Chorus" 
astounds the audience with sassy song and dance, 
complete with kicks. Throughout the show the 
Chorus entertains, rarely allowing the audience a 
dull moment. 

Keenanites have dug deeply this year, satirizing aspects oflife at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's never touched on before. Father Ted and Goldrick take most ofthe abuse, as do parietaJs, the alcohol policy, and duLac. The decreased emphasis on jokes about Saint Mary's and Breen­Phillips are a definite improvement over last year's show. The clever ways the performers twist these topics is the highligllt of this year's Revue. It seems that Keenan has put more time and effort into the show -the acts are better organized, props are used more sparingly, and, with a few exceptions, technical problems are avoided. 
The three-hour show consists primarily of humorous skits. Act One comes on strong with "Bathroom Boogie," an unique look at a trip to the men's room. It is followed by "Good Grammar With Dr. Ruth West-Hyphen," featuring George Cannon as the knowlegdable doctor; this skit 
f1
solves the problems ofseveral callers who have 
trouble with such important grammatical tools as 
periods, vowels, and colons. 
Perhaps the best received skits in this act are 
"Payments For Spring," starring Terry Cross, Mark 
Boyle, Mike Boyle, Ed Leonard and Paul Tobin, \ ! 
and "I Fought DuLac." Video aid on "Payments For Spring" enhances the message of the skit, 
see REVUE, page 2 11wOIIII....,.an-­
Keenanltes discuss wbat they ltke least tn "/ Hate It When Tbat 
Happens." 

Happenings-page 2 Friday, February 7, 1986 

The Keenan Revue 1986 
which includes singing priests and 
nuns weilding guitars and 
saxaphones. "I Fought Du Lac" 
depicts the true stories ofChuck Lanza, Mark Stephens and Keith Harrison who really did fight du I,.ac 
and lived to tell about it. 
Other amusing sketches in the first act include "The Keenan Hall ShutBe," "Return ofthe Living Alumni," "Mr. Bill" and "Super Palm Sunday." 
Act Two begins with Keenan Hall President Bill Boyle with the help of breakdancers Drew Greeley, Rich Corsetto and Marty Mullen humorously trying to persuade the audience to contribute to next year's revue. Some ofthis act's best are "The Keenan News," "Indiana Vice" and "I Hate It When That Happens." Featuring Bob Kaemmer­len, Marty McNulty, John Huebl and Mark Runfola, this year's "News" is hilarious. Runfola's editorial in which he gives the women ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity a sure-fire way to diet is one ofthe high points ofthe entire show. 
"Indiana Vice" is a spoofofthe popular TV series "Miami Vice." \eaturing Terri Cross as Tubbs and John Huebl as Sonny, the pair battle a machine to end the Notre Dame 
addiction to coke. 
"I Hate It When That Happens," a clever take-off ofthe Saturday Night Live act, features two nerds, played by Ken Matlusky and Dave Marcan­tuono. These two discuss their weekend and the unusual incidents that they dislike most in a very descriptive way. 
Also included in the Revue are acts based on musical talent, s01ne ofthe best being Doug Pishkur's "Piano Solo," and Marty Mullen's "Time Flies." The "Piano Solo" displays Pishkur's talent for com­posing as well as performing. The brevity of the piece added to its charm and kept the show rolling. 
Marty Mullen exhibits ali assort­ment of musical abilities by playing the guitar, the harmonica and sin­ging in "Time Flies." Exceptionally well-received by the audience, this performance is a cultural delight. 
Most student's exposure to rhythm & blues consists oflast year's Pizza Hut commercial, but not in the case ofGreg Bower and Mike Seasly. In "BRU's Blues," they surprise the audience with music that is definitely not played on 
n.•obserVer!Hannes Hacl<er 
or tbeir "Rings By 
's girls take tbe Transpo fi spring." 
Tbree Saint Mary 

WVFI. Conjuring up thoughts of 
lazy days, this act is definitely a 
refresher. 

Short and long skits are inter­sperced in this year's Revue, making the three-hour show skip along. Skit lengths range from 1 0 seconds to 10 minutes, the shortest being Tony Deliberato's "The Far Side." Other great short skits are "Sound Effects," "Untitled" and "A Truly Big Occa­sion." 
"Join in," says Bob Kaemmerlen, who, along with)im Melluish and Bill Boyle are responsible for "Sound Effects." This act gives the audience the opportunity to do things they've probably never done before -or never thought they'd ever do. 
"Untitled" is the best-kept secret ofthe show, and should be left that way for now. Let it suffice to say that the men involved in this one watched televsion when they were children. 
"A Truly Big Occasion," with Tony Bonfiglio and the members of section 4-North is the only skit that could be called a romantic comedy. The costumes for this one are very funny indeed. 
The only drawback ofthe Revue is "Batman," a skit that is either based on a private joke that the audience is incapable ofunder­standing or whose creator is so off-the-wall that the act appears meaningless. In a show that has so many good acts, this act sticks out like a sore thumb. 
But this reminds the audience that the performers are amateurs, normal guys who walk around Notre Dame everyday. However, they all have one characteristic in common: Keenan. They've all spent the last week working day and night for a a mere three performances and a few hours ofglory. And for what? The chance to entertain their fellow students. It's this attitude and their commitment to The Keenar Revue that makes this year's shm the perfect 10. 

The Observer!Hannes Hacker
Keenanltes display their bellies as well as their talents In ·~ Truly Big Occasion." 

NIG TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 

South Bend's Party Headquarters 
Open 7 nights a week DRINKING and DANCING 9:00 pm -3:00 am 

Located on U.S. 33 IV. at North Village Mall 277-1877 
Babies Don't Thrive In Smoke-filled Wombs 

When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 
The Observer /Hannes Hacker 

A reading from the sacred duLac in "1 atlgater Island" 
Sang Don ./(tm in "co 
"41flu . 

rt Domer 8 TheO~>sen,' eyonathe ,., er/ffanoesll
voltten D acker 
01fle" 


························-···················· 
Chmese, VietnamesP & American Food 


Oriental Express Carry Out Dining Room 
272-6702 e' ~e 
6329 University Commons ~\0'0. 
Just West ofUni..,ersity Park Mall ~~ on State Road23, Next tn Krol!er Mon. 8t Weds. 1 0"/.off with aining room coupon onty 

Happenings-page 3 Friday, February 7, 1986 
Spielberg gains triumph with 'The Color Purple' 
i 
I 
F 
TRIPPBALTZ feeling. features writer Fortunately, "The Color Purple" macks a departure from movies dripping with special ilm making and novel writing ace two effects -however temporary -for Steven entirely different forms ofentertainment Spielberg. The absence ofexcessive effects, media. Their methods ofpresentation ace so however, is made up for in tear-jerking different that it is futile to compare them, scenes packed with so much feeling they can even when they deal with the same story. be almost unbearable. 
The aspect oflesbianism in "The Color 
Purple" is handled well, however, in an appropriately uncomfortable interchange 
Movie review 
The Color Purple . 
between Shug and Celie. Ultimately, the pain and desperation 
···~ (out of four) 
expressed in "The Color Purple" arc 
When Steven Spielberg turned Alice remedied in what is perhaps one of the most Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel into a triumphant endings in movie history: Celie, film, he attempted to change written lan­who has endured so much abuse throughout 
guage into cinematic material. Spielberg the story, is reunited with her son, daughter, 
graced the movie with the normal theatrical and beloved sister, Nellie. devices. It has music and color. It has The final image which burned most clearly scenery. It has fine acting and well-thought­in my mind is ofthe silhouettes of the two 
out direction. sisters in a golden-flooded field. As the girls 
!' "The Color Purple" succeeds as a film return to the hand game they played with because it has emotion, capturing it with one another in their youth, the shadow of perhaps more intent than any movie made Mister passes over the screen. The audience before. is not forced to endure an empty attempt to 
The emotional feeling is not always bring Celie back together with her abusive, positive, however. "The Color Purple" is a although penitent spouse. 
very heavy movie. The restrained torment in "The Color Purple" is a resoundingly the face of the main character, Celie, makes successful film. It is hard not to be swept up the viewer feel the same pain and hatred she in the color and the feeling that emerges 
feels. The quiet, almost peaceful aggression from this modern classic. It is a film that ofher unnamed contemporary slave-driver, represents film making at its best. With Mr. ------, makes the audience feel like superb performances by Danny Glover and 
captives, too. newcomer Whoopi Goldberg, whose haunt­But moviegoers also warm to the heat of ing portrayal ofCelie bleeds pity from the the invulnerable night-club dancer Shug audience, a colorful score by QuincyJones,
Mr. ------(Danny Glover) intimidates his downtrodden wife, Celie (Whoopi Goldberg), 
Avery, applaud at the snorting fury of the and perfectly directed scenes (I shivered
in Steven Spielberg's production ofAlice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel, "The 
robust Sophia and laugh at her comical every time Mr....... needed a shave ...), "The 
Color Purple." 
husband, Harpo. This film is loaded with Color Purple" is a cinematic triumph. 
The Scoop /Music 
• The Student Activities Board hosts .T.: The Extra-Terrestrial" tonight and tomorrow night in the Engineering Auditorium. Starring Henry Thomas as Elliott. a little boy who befriends an alien left behind on Earth, this film is one of Producer and Director Steven Spielberg's finest. Drew Barrymore also makes her film debut as Elliot's younger sister who doesn't believe in E.T., the name given to the alien, until she meets him. Newsweek Magazine described the film as "An affec­ @61 The South Bend Community School Corporation Art Faculty Exhibition closes Sunday in the W acner Gallery of the South Bend Art Center. This invitational exhibit highlights the work of the act ino;tructors within the South Bend com­munity. Admission is free.  • On Exhibit: A Cooperative Art Space, located in Sou'th Bend, invites the public to an opening reception for Eddie Owens and Paul Wilmoth tonight from 7 to IO p.m. The exhibit features Owens' large drawings and Wilmoth's ceramics. Owens' expressionistic mixed media drawings explore the relationship of the cow to the human form. Wilmoth's ceramic platters and and vessels convey a loosely figurative gesture. Both artists ace graduate students at Notre Dame. Refresh­ments will be provided as well as an  • The Notre Dame department of music announces Mary Beaudoin in a graduate student voice recital tomorrow in the Annenberg Auditorium. Beaudoin will perform works by Schubert, Brahms, Handel and Masse net. Admission to the 3 p.m. concert is free. • The Elkhart County Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Michael Esselstrom, will present a concert of Russian music Sunday at the Beickman  
tionate masterpiece. Funny, touching,  • "Artists and Models: Portraits from  opportunity to meet the artists. The show  Performing Arts Center at Concord High  
exhilarating, irresistible. A movie for all  the Hirshhom Museum and Sculpture  can be viewed during normal gallery  School. The program includes the  
ages." Time says, "Steve Spielberg's magi­ Garden," a collection of35 watercolors,  hours from I2 to 4 p.m. on Saturday and  Scheherazade Suite by Nickolas Rimsky­ 
cal miracle movie is in a class by itself."  prints, drawings and photographs con­ Sunday.  Korsakov and the Sergei Rachmaninov  
Admission to the 7, 9:1 '5 and 11:30 p.m.  tinues this weekend in the Print, Drawing  Piano Concerto No. 2 inC Minor with  
shows is $1.'50.  and Photography Gallery at the Snite  • Closing Sunday in the Women's Art  John Owings, piano soloist. Tickets to the  
Museum ofArt. Characterized by a quality  League Gallery of the Art Center is the  3:30p.m. performance ace S4 for college  
ofintimacy, the 34 portraits on display  two-person exhibit of recent work by  students. Tickets ace available at the door  
• The department ofcommunications  reveal keen psychological insight and  Alan Larkin and Ron Monsma Larkin is  and in advance at the Symphony office,  
and theater presents "The Last Metro"  explore the unique relationship ofartist  well-known for his meticulously rendered  located in the Midwest Commerce Bank  
tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. Directed by Frenchman Francois Truffaut  to sitter. The museum is open Tuesday through Friday 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Saturday  paintings, prints and drawings. Monsma is known for his figurative pastel work. The  Building.  
and starring Catherine Deneuve and  and Sunday I to 4 p.m., and Thursday  exhibit can be viewed from 3 to 5 p.m.  • The Holiday Star Theater in Merrillville  
Gerard Depacdieu, the film depicts life in  evenings 4 to 8 p.m. Admission is free.  Admission is free.  hosts theNorthwest Indiana Symphony  
the French theater during the Nazi oc­ featuring Anna Belle O'Shea Sunday.  
cupation in World Wac II. Against this  Tickets to the 3 p.m. performance ace SS  
setting a delicate love story unfolds.  and U2.  
Tickets to the 7:30 and 9:4'5 p.m. shows  
are $1.'50.  
• The Indiana University at South Bend continues its spring semester film series  /....___Mass_~  
Sunday night with "Chariots ofFire,"  
winner offour Oscars. The film is based  The celebrants for Massat Sacred Heart  
on the true story of two British runners in  Church this weekend will be:  - 
the 1924 Paris Olympics. Admission to the 8 p.m. showing, which will take place in the Uttle Theater of Northside Hall on the llJSB campus, is $1.75.  Father Robert Griffin at 5 p.m. (Saturday night vigil). Father Patrick Gaffney at 9 a.m. Father Robert Kennedy at 10:30 a.m.  
and 12:l5p.m.  
The schedule for confessions in Sacred  
Heart Church is:  
Monday through Saturday at I1:I 5 a.m.  
Monday through Friday at 5 p.m.  
Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m.  
• The SAB presents "We Can Make You Laugh" tomorrow night in Stepan Center.  Saturday only 4 to 5 p.m. in the Crypt.  - 
If they can't make you laugh, you get $2'5.  Vespers will be held Sundays at 7: 1 5  
Tickets to the 7 p.m. performance ace S2  p.m. in the Lady Chapel.  
and ace available at The Celler and the  The rosary is said daily at 6:45p.m. at  
door. "E. T.: The E'(traterrestrial"  the Grotto.  
~------------------------------------------------------­ ____________________ ______________________________j  

.... • 

~

------~-~-----~-----------~-~--~-----­
Happenings-page 4 Friday, February 7, 1986 
A cornucopia of great food at world-famous Bibler's 
-
·­
• 
GREG DeFRIPPO, TIM HEALY 
and RUSS HUMBERSTON 
features writers 
N 
o disrespect intended, but even 
for the most serious dieters, 
the Sunday morning host in Mass 
just doesn't satisfy the appetite. No 
matter how generous an offering 
this may seem, one still can't go 
back for seconds, and at Bibler's 
Original Pancake House there's no 
R. . -. ~:·. . . ­
Bibler's Original Ponca£< House ***'(outottourJ 
need for extra portions because 
there's plenty the first time at an 
affordable price. 
Since its founding in 195 3 in 
Portland, Ore., Bibler's has been the 
proud recipient ofmany interna· 
tional awards. In Paris, Bibler's was 
selected byJames Beard, an interna· 
tional food critic, as one ofthe 1 0 
best restaurants in the world. In 
1956, the original Pancake House 
won the McCall Citation for Excel· 
lence in the category ofpreparation 
and presentation offood. 
Bibler's franchise in South Bend 
has not allowed this commitment to 
excellence to wander. Many ofits 
Spring 1987 
WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS 
SUMMER SESSION ONLY at the Wad ham College of the University of 
OXFORD 
Accredited courses in government, economics, journalism and pre­law by an outstanding faculty. 
Full Academic Year Programs at the London School of Economics, Oxford, and St. Andrews Universities, for Qualified Juniors and Seniors. 
All credits transferred through Hamden-Sydney College, Virginia (Founded in 1776) 
Inquiries to: Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. Admissions Director The Wuhington International Studies Center 
212· 724·0804 or0136 (EQ/AA) 
recipes have been passed down from generation to generation. With home-brewed coffee, fresh· squeezed orange juice, hand-beaten pancake batter and "93 score" butter, Bibler's retains the old· fashioned touch with which it was established. 
This nostalgic tradition is ex· tended to the cluttered decor, which is marked by such items as antique butter churns, original Coke serving trays and copper tea kettles. This friendly and inviting atmosphere dissolves the genera­tion gap; diners of all ages seem to have no problem finding time for a great breakfast. 
"Ibough the restaurant lacks music of any kind, COf!.versation is kept at a relaxed level due to the laid-back atmosphere. Businessmen talk openly and candidly, and ex· pectant mothers converse anxiously over steaming tea and hot cakes. 
Bibler's boasts "the most copied menu in the world," as well it should. There is something here for even the most delicate ofappetites. The "eggery" contains every plausible way to prepare eggs, including poached, scrambled, fried or boiled. These quality "white eggs" (not brown) are accom· panied by hand-grated hash browns, sausage, bacon and other dry cured meats, toast or pancakes. 

For the more adventurous taste buds, Bibler's offers a variety of omelettes, pancakes and crepes. Their Spanish omelette, although a bit spicy, is a refreshing change from the dining halls' meager at· tempts. The Swedish, pecan, potato and banana pancakes are all unique masterpieces, and the buckwheat pancakes are "oh-tay," too. 
But perhaps Bibler's is best known for its two specialties, the German and apple pancakes. These gut stretchers need plenty ofroom because they are meals in them· selves. The apple pancake is a pleasant mixture ofapple wedges and cinnamon served over a Sicilian-style pancake crust. The German pancake is equally fulfill. ing. 
The service, like the food, is excellent. The waitresses are friendly, warm and inviting, and the service is prompt. The food, service and price combine to make Bibler's Original Pancake House a great breakfast hangout. Bibler's is con· veniently located on 1430 N. Iron­wood Dr., two buildings south of Mr. D's. 
More from Keenan Revue 
Above: Mike Bolye as a caroling father in "Payments for the 
Spring"; Below left:Dr. Ruth West-Hyphen instructs one ofthefirst 
Notre Dame women on the use ofher husband's diction. 

THE DUKE TUMATOE BAND 
Saturday, February 8th 

21.D.'s required $2 per person 
ONE NIGHT ONLY AT LEE'S RIBS 1132South Bend Ave. 232-9311 

FREE GIFr WITH EVERY DINNF.R ...._ ...san fll..-..fllllrl1:31 ttZ:31.11111t•IJ& 130 Dbdt WIJ South, So. lind fnext ta Randall's Inn) Z7t·1371 
~----------------------------~ 
_,_____..,._
5298u.s.]jPlorth 
Wltb tbls coupon receive a 
Large Pizzafor Medium Pizza Price Medium Pizzafor Small Pizza Price (Delloery Orders Only) After 5 pm on Frt-Sat. Only (Limited Delioery Area) Offer expires Feb. 15
277-5880 

L----------------------------~ 
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~--------------------------------------------~Fr~id=a~y~,F~e~b~ru~~~7~,~19~8~6_-~p~ag~e~9 

P.O. Box Q 
specified dates. It is a shame that certain people feel the need to take advantage of it through vandalism. To those who are guilty of such behavior, a few words of advice: Try using some common sense and manners. It is because of people like you that the ad· ministration did away with parties in the first place. Need they do more? 
Carolyn Reppa Kathi Miller Stephanie Callendar Saint Mary's College seniors 

Reagan's aid will hurt the Nicaraguan citizens 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to respond to Randy Battis­toni's article in support of selective divest­ment based on the theory oflow inducement and attitude change. I hope Battistoni was not relaxing in his nice dorm room while he asked the blacks suffering under the South African government's system of apartheid to be patient, a change will come. Black South Africans will not wait for a change in attitudes, only a change in the structure of the govern· ment. 
Once again an attempt to relate the struggles with racism filced in the United States with South Africa's system ofapartheid leads to improper conclusions about the two. In the United States, the Constitution is ded· icated to protecting equal rights while the South African constitution is dedicated to fur­thering the separation of blacks and whites through the system ofapartheid. 
Battistoni treats the Botha regime as a group of children trying to be coaxed to end apartheid, but they are grown men implanted in their oppressive system. It is a filet that men in power have never given up that power wit· hout a struggle. 
The theory oflow inducement has no place here. With blacks dying everyday and violence being introduced into the white· owned areas of South Africa, the situation is already beyond the stage of low inducement and will only get worse if more economic pressure is not placed on the South African government to reform. 
Although it may be true that prejudiced at· titudes foster the system of government in South Africa, the question is not whether or not whites will be happy to change. If meaningful reforms do not come quickly, the black majority will make the costsofmaintain· ing the apartheid system too high. Violence has become a part of the answer of how to bring apartheid to an end. The only question remaining is whether the total divestment of 
U.S. financial support to South Africa will pressure the Botha regime to the bargaining table or whether U.S. complacency will lend itself to the start ofan aU-out civil war. 
Patrick Francis Grace Hall 
Campus Quote 

"Thisclass is like Mass in that you can come in at any time and know what is going on." 
William Nichols Professor ofAccountancy jan. 16, 1986 

Rebukes previous claim on South African issues 
Dear Editor: 
Blaise Aguirre's article of Feb. 4 read like a 
set-piece from the South African Information 
Service. However, a propagandist should, at 
least, get his filets right; he has confused Bis­
hop Buthelezl with Gatsha Buthelezi. It is 
Gatsha who is leader of the Zulu and Inkatha. 
not the Bishop. 
Aguirre's sorry ignorance of the black 
political struggle in South Africa most likely 
reflects a white South African high school 
education. Cheap shots at Bishop Tutu and 
defilming the African National Congress as a 
Communist organization may well win this 
young man friends among right·wingers in 
this country; nevertheless, it is regrettable 
that Aguirre's time at Notre Dame did not give 
him a greater regard for the truth. 
The ANC is not a Communist organization and never has been. This movement has had an exemplary history in the teeth ofone ofthe worst tyrannies this century has ever seen. For years the ANC tried polite petitions to the white government; when this strategy met, repeatedly, with contemptuous dismissal, the ANC turned to passive resistanl·e in the 1950s. At Sharpville in 1960, 69 pa'isive resisters were massacred · shot in the back as they fled · by the white police. "Ibe South African Government's next move was to ban the ANC, whereupon the movement reluctantly adopted a policy ofcountervailingforce. Even so, its targets were scrupulously defined, namely, the army. police and economic instal· lations. 
It Is disingenuous of Aguirre to expect Nel­son Mandela to renounce force when the ANC is up against the violence of the South African state. What he fails to mention Is that Mandela ha'i offered a truce so that negotiations can hegin. 
Professor Peter W alshe Director ofAfrican Studies 

Harrison's comments added to the sterotypes 
Dear Editor: 
Development ofearly abortifacients such as the RU-486, sometimes referred to as the "morning after" pill, is indeed disturbing, but unfortunately it is no surprise to the pro-life movement. In Europe, such anti-progesterone agents are much closer w commercial release than Keith Harrison's predic;tion of five years (The Observer, Wednesday, Feb. 5 ). While the marketing of what is essentially an over· the·l·ountt·r abortion does pose a challenge for the pro-life movement, it will not change the nature of pro-life arguments or efforts. It 
cannot. 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Life believes that human life is sacred, and that It begins at the moment ofconception and ends with natural death. What calls us to respect the life of the unborn is the same whether the 
Doonesbury 
fetus is eight minutes or eight months old. 
Harrison gives tl:)e impression that it is only 
the evidence of dismembered human bodies 
which proves abortion is wrong. The "grisly 
photos" to which he refers certainly do 
provide strong, horrifying proof, but they are 
not exclusive evidence. One hopes that it is 
more than our appearance which makes us 
human. It is more than "ugly pictures" which 
makes us pro-life. 
If documentation such as "The Silent Scream" and photos ofaborted fetuses evokes emotion, it is because it should evoke emo· tion in any feeling human being. But this is not its purpose, for the anti-abortion message is very much an intellectual appeal. Pro-life educators are employing truthful means, not "emotional" ones. Unfortunately, that truth is often "ugly"; abortion is "brutal." 
I was glad to see Harrison's concern for the difficulties faced by the pro-life movement. My concern, however, is that his editorial helped perpetuate a common stereotype of those opposed to abortion. Pro-lifers see more in abortion than crushed fetal bodies, because acceptance of abortion reflects how man views God, his own existence, his sexuality and his responsibility towards others. 
Pro-life men and women care about the un­born, but they also care about women with problem pregnancies, and they care about the children of those who choose not to abort. They care about those who filii to see or rejoice in the sanctity and beauty of human life, and they care about society as a whole · because the society which tolerates in· humanity, towards even the least of its mem­bers, suffers. 
Theresa Donovan Farley Hall 

Racism does exist here as incident illustrates 
Dear Editor: 
I have always assumed that if any of my 
friends ask me to accompany them to a party it 
is a safe bet that I will have fun meeting many 
ofour Notre Dame brothers and sisters, espe· 
cially when the party is olf campus. Call it the 
spirit of the Gipp. 
Too bad the spirit did not hit me on Satur· day, Feb. 1. While I stayed on campus, some of my dormmates were truly entertained at 617 St. Peter St. Can you guess what happened in black and white? 
Five men from my section, three black and two white, went together to the party on St. Peter Street. Five of them entered without incident but the sixth, who came just a few seconds late, was stopped at the door by a rude person who told him not to enter be· cause he was not a student (a supposition). Meanwhile, while socializing, another one of my friends was approached and told to leave for the same reason, again without cause. Can vou guess what happened to still another one of my friends? Can you guess the skin color of the three who were asked to leave because they were not students (and they are)? (Hint:. 

8iiTIUHY, tueu., HE MIJ5T !ill~ 
IA/HO KNaus lA/HAT THE OUJ BOY 
OlfP ZOM81FICAT!ON !~CAPITAL
5/R~ WHY OfFENIJEPAPI?ICST 
PUNI5HM/3NT IN 'tf.JIX)(JN 500&7Y.
WOf,UJANY-fROM ONE OF THE 
MAYBE HE t-t£45 CAJl3JfTME$'3/NG
J(}It /A/ANT L.OCAL 8/ZANGO 
/AIITH 7HE tu!WNG

• TO{)() THIS 5&CJ?ET5tXIETIES.. 
: TOOUKer 
TALWT. j
I 

the two who were not approached are not 
black.) 
Despite pointing out about 1 5 people that he knew, one ofmy friends was asked, now get this, to show some ID. He refused. The ob· noxious person who had the gall to ask him for ID was not satisfied, though, when he found out that there are indeed black students at Notre Dame. The fool then started gawking about GPAs saying that he knew my friend's GPA was lower than his. Too bad he didn't ask for a transcript. Can you guess how he would have felt to see the truth in black and white? He might have called in the KKK instead ofthe South Bend Police, (Yes, they called the police.) 
Let me state that a party thrower has the right to say who will be able to throw at his party. If the party is for ND students alone, then so be it. I am not upset because the guy wanted only Domers at his abode. I would not be upset ifeveryone was asked to show an ID. But can you guess why I find it asinine that the only three asked for ID were black? 
I have seen The Observer examine the question of racism at Notre Dame. Does it ex· ist? Can you guess? 
Dennis T. Tillman PlannerHall 

'Minor' violations ruin Senior Bar for students 
Dear Editor: 
This past Friday, Jan. 24, we were at a party which, unfortunately, broke up rather early. As an alternative, we decided it would be in· teresting to see what the Alumni-Senior Club is like on an Undergrad Night. In a sense, we were comparing the present social life offered to underclassmen with that ofour own fresh· man year. Overall, we were impressed. A lively atmosphere, great music, and free refreshments characterized the event. So many people were dancing that they over· flowed from the dance floor and took up much of the seating area as well. We wished they had offered this when we were freshmen. 
As is always the case, however, there were a few that could not seem to appreciate a good thing. We walked into the women's restroom and found toilet paper scuffed in four of the sinks. We felt like we were in a bowling alley. What was the purpose? Then, we proceeded to move out to the dance floor. We were en· joying ourselves as were all those around us. Before we knew it, some bimbo decided to dance on top of the table that borders the dance floor. Granted, we have all done asinine things to embarrass ourselves, and we are cer­tainly no exception, but this goes beyond that. She apparently was not comfortable, so she took it upon herself to remove a celling panel in order to stand upright and dance. Next thing we knew, there were three people up there · thus, three dislocated ceiling panels. 
We were infuriated to see our "home away from home" being mistreated like that. For several years, Senior Bar has been a privilege for srudents of legal drinking age. Last year, the privilege was extended to all students on 
Editorial Board Operations Board 
--Ihe-Db-·-----se~~er--­
~ --A.-=-Y~ 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamihon Business Manager...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
M~ing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck 
News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan The Observer 11 the independent newspaper published by the students of the Untversity of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager ....................Anne M. CulliganNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neceeaarily reflect the poltcies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager......................... Mark B. Johnson admtntstration of etther institution. The news i1 reported aa accurately and objectively aa pOI­
Sporta Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell stble. Un111gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authc:n. Column apace is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy avatlable to all members c:A the community and the free expreeaion of varying opinions on Photography Editor......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus. through letters. is encouraged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 


The Observer Friday, February 7,1986 -page 1 0 

Sports Briefs 
The ND women's swimming team will play host to the University of Illinois (Chicago) and Valparaiso Uni­versity tonight at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The meet is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. -The Observer 
The ND trackteam will travel to West Lafayette, Ind., tonight to take part in the Indiana Intercollegiate indoor track meet. -The Observer 
A SMC softball clinic. directed by SMC head coach Scott Beisel and several other local coaches, will be held Saturday at the Angela Athletic Facility. The four 90-minute sessions of the day will focus on pitching, basic fundamentals, defense, and hitting and bunting techniques. Anyone interested may register on Saturday from 8-8:30a.m. The first session will begin at 9 a.m. For registration fees and more information call the Angela Athletic Facility at 284­5548.-The Observer 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for NO and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVA at 239-5100.. -The Observer 
A campus tug-of-war contest is being or­
ganized by the NO Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to assemble teams. For more information call Kevin Lennon at 239­6440. -The. Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NVA.-The Obser­ver 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shirt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -The Observer 
Black bum takes lead in golf action 
SAN DIEGO -Defending cham­pion Woody Blackburn shot a wind­blown 66 and led a group of six golfers tied for the first-round lead yesterday in the $450,000 Shearson Lehman Bros.-Andy Williams Open. 
Blackburn, who scored the only individual victory ofhis 1 0-year PGA Tour career in this event a year ago, shared the top spot with Larry Rinker, Danny Edwards, Larry Mize, Mark Wiebe and Robert Wrenn. 
Despite a chilly wind that swept in from the Pacific, Blackburn scat­tered nine 3s across his card and said he had "a good, positive feeling." 
A single stroke off the pace at 67 were Billy Glasson, Paul Azinger, Richard Fehr, Andy Dillard, Bob Tway and rookie Brian Mogg. 
The Obsert·er :\lotrt' Oam.-offin·. hKalt'd on th.-third floor of l.afortunt· Swdt·nt <..-m.-r. a<T<'PI' <.:la"ilkd adn·rti''"l( from') am unlll ~ p n; ..\lunda\ throul(h frida\· The rJbser1•er .~aim .\lan ·, olfic.-. Jotatl'd on rht· 1h1rd floor of Haggar Colkl(l' <.t·ntt'r. a<T<'PI' tla"itkd' from 12.~0 p m untol .~ p m. ~lon· da\· though Fnda\ lkadlint· for nt·xt-da\ l"la"ilkd' i\ ~ p.m All da"ifi.-d, mu't ht· pr.-paod.euhn m per-.>n or h\ mall <harj(t' i' I 0 tTnt' pn fiv.-t·harac





Classifieds 
r.-" r da\· 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
$1 Q-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Orculanl! 
NoquoiU! Sincerely interested rush 1811-addreaaed envelope: Succ-. POBox 470CDD, Woodstock, IL 60098. 
................................................................ 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. 
$16,04Q-$59,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. R-9834 lor cur­renllederal Hat. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 
DWII7. 
.........iliiait4£U"EiiPflns:·;.-;c:.......... 
WordprOCMelngand typing 272-11827 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAILL MRS.COKER, 233-70011. 
LOST/FOUND I 
···················· 
STOLEN : My black bool< bag was taken from the South Dining Hall S during Thuraday'slunch ( 1/30). I aaw the person who acted aa if he waa refilling the paper in the copying machine, and am sure I wiH be abie to identify hie picture In the AD· MINISTRATION FILES. SoH your the guy who thought hla CRIME wu perlecl: THINK AGAIN and come to your aenaea. Return the bag to ita 1aat poaition n-the copier or aoon pay the consequences. 
LOST: '87 N.D. CLASS RING; IN FRONT OF S. DINING HALL, 1/30/86: CALL STEVE AT 3062: REWARD!!! 
LOST: Lur Tueadaay I /oat a thick gold chain bracelet. It was a graduation gill, pl-call Usa -3098 nyou have any in­formation. 
LOST: Baaketball tickets; Probably loaf in South Dinlng on Saturday Feb. 1. The ticket ie Section 6: Row 9; Seat 15. Please call Chip at 2704 with any information. 
LOST OLIVE GREEN JACKET Mistak· ingly taken from Senior Bar Coat Rake Saturday Night, January 25. GRE,t.T SENTIMENTAL VALUE, REWARD, NO QUESTIONS ASKED, Call Tim 2004,417 Stanford Hall. 
Loat: A pair of preaaiption eyeglaaaea in a case with a picture of a kitten on the case. It wu lost Saturday night between Walsh and Zahm. Call Nicole 26n. 
LOST: silver TIMEX watch. Loa! around Senior Bar or Campus View on Feb. 1. R-ard iflound. Call Pat at 3165. 
LOST: A thick, chain-Hnked gold bracelet with a large claap. It wu /oat Friday, Jan. 17th. It haa incredible sentimental value and cannot be replaced. II you have any information and can identify it, pleue call Karen ar 1884. Thank you. 
LOST AT MARQUETTE GAME SATURDAY-Places key chain with abou1 a dozen keys on it. Unleaa you're from NJ, you can't use them, but I can. Cuh or services as reward... calx 4021 
LOST/STOLEN Black Navy P-COAT at SENIOR BAR Thu,.,30 JAN To return,contact ANDY at 2990.1'm freez­ing! 

FOUND: Notes for Managerial Econ. in Room 220 O'Shaughnessy. Call John Boulof 4125. 
HELP Loat-calculator in 120 Cushing Tues Feb. 4 at 4:00pm. Wu lett under desk with 2 manuals. It is an HP 37E. If found please call Carl at 234-2275. 
REWARD OFFERED. float my glaaaea a week ago. It wu probably in Cuahing, O'Shag, or Washington Hall. If you have found them please give me a call at 3046. Thanka, BHnder-than-a-bat. 
LOST: Umbrella with long, light colored wood hancle and dark green cotton fabric. Loa! around the time of Thankagiving. It is at great sentimental value pkJa it keeps me dry and I have a cold. Please Call Steve K. at 1786 or place w/ Lost and Found. 
LOST: UGHT·BLUE JACKET WITH RED-PLAID INTERIOR AT BIIDGET'S TUESDAY NGHT. SMALL AQUA & PLAID SCARF WAS WITH JACKET, ALaO LOST. JACKET WAS NEW AND I NEED IT TO SURVIVE THE WINTER. SCARF BELONGS TO A FRIEND OF MINE. PLEASE CALL AT 3451 IF YOU HAVE THEM. 
WERE YOU IN THE BOOKSTORE THURSDAY,2/6? IF SO, DID YOU HAP­PEN TO ACCIDENTLY PICK UP A BLACK FOLDER FILLED WITH HAND­OUTS FOR ALL MY CLASSES,AND A GREEN NOTEBOOK WITH NOTES FOR THOSE SAME CLASSES? PLEASE CALL 4029. OR DROP THEM ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF 233 FARLEY 
LOST: Burgandy Leather Gloves At Senior Bar Saturday February 1st. Call Blanche At 284-5119 With Any Informa­tion. 
WANTED 

Need ride to PENN STATE 2/13-16 CaH Corinne 1292 
OVERSEAS JOSS..Summ•, yr.round. Europe, S.Am«., Auatnllla, A81a. AN llelcle. $1100-2000 mo. Slgh!Melng. F-Info. Write IJC, PO Bx 52-IN-4, Coronll del Mar, CA 12t25. 
WANTED: Exercycle with flywheel. All parts must be working because all my parll need working. If you have one that you're not using and all it's doing is col­lecting dust, why don't you give me a call. Call Shirley at 239-5303 before 4 p.m. or 272-3753 afler 6 p.m. 
We have found in the put that collega students and graduates excel in our in­dus!Jy because they are ambitious and goal oriented. National recreation­company Ia Iooking lor a lew good people to staff our 1986 sales line. High income potential-excellent opportunity lor ad­vancement. Call Mr. Stevenson at 616­695-3873. 
Two Beautiful girls in a Uncoln Town Car looking lor RIDERS to the Ft. Lauderdale area over Spring Break Call Jean 284­4379 
FOR SALE 

5 bdrm house. Fully furnished. All ap­pliancee & furniture included. Great investment. Nice neighborhood. 4 miles from NO. $22,000. Call eveninga-288­
3109. , lor aahrbeautiful condo in Somers Square Eut. $79,900 Call Tina Mark 674­6678. 
TICKETS 
Two blondes mistakenly got Friday night Keenan Review tickets, although they for­got they already had plana lor that evening! They are looking lor two people who wouldn't mind trading them two Saturday's lor two Friday'e. It would be deeply appreciated. To contact these two, call either SMC • 4419, or SMC 4429. 
FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE ia great, but I need 2 G.A.'alor the DePaul B·Ball game,on Feb. 25 Pleue cell Jackie 2126 if you have ticketa lor sale 
-BEST DEAL-KEENAN REVEIW TIX Will trade 4 Fri. tix for 2 Sat. We want to go lo our last NO Tri·Mil Ball. Call Arl & Denise at 239-511 or 283-3139. 
Need to trade 1 Keenan tic. lor Fri. lor 1 Sat. call John x-2487 
HELP! I DESPERATELY NEED 1 GA FOR THE DAYTON BASKETBALL GAME IF YOU CAN HELP ME PLEASE CALL 284-4036 AND ASK FOR JILL. THANKS! 
PERSONALS 
···s.;·-;;,~~~.-~,;;~;;ri~jl·i;ii;;~~i~;;·;~·:;;;.~i 
we expect end tuning out the rear. 
-Richard Bach. The Brlclga Acroae Forev• 
The word crying does not appear in the lexicon of heaven. It is the only word ~sted in the lexicon of hell. 
-Calvin Miller, 
o.s. 

RED . . very becoming 
T.B. 

PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? 
Call 234-0363. 24-hr. hotline, counseling 
& free pregnancy testa. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
Tomorrow Night "We can Make You Laugh" Comedy Show. 8:00pm Was­hington Hall $2 admiasion. 
Loving catholic couple wn1ato adopt an Infant. If you know ofanyone Who Ia conalclerlng placing a child lor adop­tion, piMM call collecl (217) 317·3371 alt•7p.m. 
··········· ······················•······ ' 
DAVE FLANAGAN FORUMOC 
································································ 
THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR 
RAMBEAR UVESIII 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hou,.: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday: 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
MEN OF NOTRE DAME-VIIIentlne'a wtM nev• be the •-DIIaon thelooaelll­01 
lnt.-ted In tutoring a Iouth Band grac»echool or hlgh-achool atuclenl? Neighborhood Study Help Program has many spots in a number of schools and centers. CaH Marthe Muaman at 38t4. 
"Sarah wu mine." 
-o.s. 

Oh. but was she sober? 
To The "Morally Responelble" Guys That Helped Us Out Fri. Night. Thanks! We Couldn'T Have Made It Without You. Mary Jane & Donna 
Thank you St. Jude -EM 
Thank you St. Jude for watching over me and my family. -PAG 
The Hapn'n Houee ia sad to announce the death of it's beloved pet "Basil" the beailiak. Born-(?) died-(over break). All are invited to attend the Irish Wake in his honor this Sal. 
John Burelbach Will be 20 this Friday. No kidding, honest. So now aU you girls can drop by 1 06 Dillon and wiah him a happy birthday in any way you desire. And don't forget hie roommate who turns 21 on Saturday, he needa love too!! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
Dance Dance .Dance Danca Dance Dance To the Band LAKE EFFECT at Alumnl-Senior Club SATURDAY NIGHT 9:30p.m.-1:30p.m. ALL WELCOME!IIII!I!I!I NO ID NEEDEDIII DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCEIIII 
Miranda, Meet me by the wood pile. Ferdinand 
MS VALENTINES DANCE Friday Feb. 14 8:3Q-1pm Stepan Center Dancing-Prizes­Food Bring your favorite valentine! 
I want to have an exciting Valentine's Day-information pleue-BM 
I'm going to tear the stuffing out of Ram­bear. 
Rambear: DEAD. 

I'm going to rip Rambear's head off ... and then eat it. 
YOUR DAYS ARE LIMITED RAMBEAR . .. YOU ARE ONE DEAD BEAR ... AND I MEAN IT. 
THAT'S RIGHT MARK MeL., RAMBEAR IS DEAD. 
R.I.P. RAMBEAR (19??-1986) He wu a good bear, while he lasted .. and when he had a head. 
Mr. Pankowski, methinka you do not know exactiy who you are dealing with here. 
-RAMBEAR 

The Notre Dame Glee Club Presents "A Rose and a Love Song" SINGING VALENTINES Delivered Thursday, Feb. 13 In person-$5 Byphone-$3 Order yours in the Dining Halls At Lunch Sunday thru Wednesday 
JOHN FLORY • Make our day -have a happy 20th birthday, Mom & the guys 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MAUREEN HUF­FER! 
KEVIN BREEN: Good luck in the Revue tonight and tomorrow. From your Lewis big sister. 
Terry Cross thanks for the tickets and break a leg in the revue tonight and tomor­row! Love, Pat 
From the latest editions to the "Have Been Blown-Off Club", have you h-d these belore? "I have to sing that night, um... l think." "''m relaxing ar home thie weekend... "I just don't feel comfortable, anymore." " I guess I'm juat drifflng away.'' "We just don't communicate that well... Hope these are up to club stan­derda. 
HAPPY ANNIVERSARY MARYEllEN AND JOE MORIN I hope your fulure years are as happy as the lut 23! Love and many thanks, Maria 
............................................... Hello? This is Debbie. So Deb it'e your birthday, the big 19!!!But since you'll be at the tri-mil we'll party for you. Happy Birthday to a reluctant "parly giri." With love from your roomie and the Yah­wesses!!!!l!!!!!!!! 
JIM MEJIA is a GRAY GIBBON 11!!1!!!!! 
···································· ······················ 
LET IT BE KNOWN TO THE WORLD!!! JOHN TYLER IS 5 FOR 5 AND SOON TO BE A "DOUBLE DOMER" LETS GIVE HIM A HAND! CONGRATS JOHN I 
,. 
Although it may be cold & gloomy now. it was not too long ago that it was warm & sunny. Yes, the time is drawing near ... 
BAHAMAS ABUSE I!! 
Embarrassing quotes win be coming soon.. 
ATTENTION RON DRUMM: We ~ear it's your birthday 80 have a good one We love you From the three stooges, Jennifer, Beth. and Sheila 
···································· 
IF I GO DOWN, YOU'RE COMING WITH ME! MISERY LOVES COMPANY! 
GOOD LUCK TO ALL SMC AND NO FENCERS! FROM 2 FORMER SMC MEMBERS 
SKINNY DIPPERS ANONYMOUS: CALL 284-4002 ASK FOR SUE PUGH OR BENNY HILL 
............................................................. 
"''ll never drink again. " SJK 
Men Of Notre Dame -Valentine'S Day Wil Never Be The Same -Di Is On The Loose!!-Di 
Maura, dear, with my pride a little hurt I still await a call. 
Dear Betlr (Cuddles), Dumpling and I (Katinka) just want to say hello to you. Hope you are having fun. 
Cheerio, 
J.R.A. C.M.L. 
ANN, WILL WE EVER SOLVE THE UNIFIED FIELD THEORY? ·DAVID 
Kathy: fi;~·i,s ;;~~; .-;~~~;,-~; ii~;,..,a: ~­day early. Flowers Flowers Flowers 
I Want To Have An Exciting Valentine'S Day -Information Please B.M. 
I Need You Di • Paul. ····················· ......................... JANE· HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY! HOW ABOUT A GAME OF QUARTERS? LOVE. PAM AND JACQUIE 
FLFF, ORIG. IDEA? U & ME AND THE SOUTH SEA? A 7th DANCE ROMANCE? NYMH! WELL...LORO! LOVE.TGGR 
KEENAN REVIEW PARTY This wild event will take place afler the show on Frtday, Feb 7, in the parlor at 
Haggar College SMC l'lelreshments and a OJ All Welcome 

Di, I've been waiting lor a woman Nke you ~ ALL my life Where can I meet you ?-Matt 
RAM CHICK HAPPY BIRTHDAYIII 
DON'T BE FLUSTERED, OR FLUTTER BECAUSE OF THAT RACIAL SLUR. NOR SHOULD YOU GRUMP ANYWAY, HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND I AM SORRY THAT I CAN'T BE WITH YOU ON THE 8TH. I OWE YOUIII ALSO HAPPY 1.5 ANNIVERSARY. THANX FOR ALL THE GOOD TIMES, I HOPE THEY DON'T END. LOVE ALWAYS -17. 
Dear John, happy 20th. Your the greatest. I hope this year is as good aa the laat one was. Thanks for everything and have a great 8-Day. Love. Jacque 
It's Coming!! It's Coming' SMC Sophomore Sweetheart Swirl!I Feb. 14th 9-1am It's Coming!! It's Coming!! 
Katie M.: Thanks lor making lasl Friday night 80 epecia/. I'm 80 glad we got lo know each other so well. You're really wonderful! Love, Paul 
My Dearest Mikey. My goal wil finally be reached Feb. 8. Prepare to go down & don't plan anything on Sun. because you will be incapacitated. You must cooperate 80 I can graduate. Love Barbie P.S. You future party banshee you P.S.S. Don't be scared. it happens lo the besl of us. 
P.S.S.S. Mikey'll ~ke, he likes everything. You're my little Mikey 
Tomorrow is Mike (Mikey) Steint..,g's 21st birthday. Available lemalea should call 2450 or stop by 35 Pangborn lo wish him a sale Saturday night. All gills ac­cepted, but liquor preferred. 
Brace you,.elf, New Orleans! The Keenan Hall Love Doge, Marc MiNer and Matt Highberger are heading your way to party it up lor MARDI GRAS. Remember, guys. don't do anything that this Ad­ministration would look down upon (BAH HAH)!!! Ani! don't you wony about me. I've got that cule Hawaiian-all to myaefl this weekend! -OPUS. 
to lhe NROTC guy-II you would've just ASKED me, I wouldn't be going to Mic­higan! 
PLAYING WITH FIRE THINGS CAN GET BURNED GUARD YOUR CANE WELL ROSSI YOU'VE GOT A LESSON TO LEARN! THE HEAT-MISER 
FASTELAUNSFEST HAVE YOU BEEN INVITED TO THE PREMIER VIKING So­CIAL EVENT OF THE SEASON???? BE THERE!!!! 
Di, I'Ve Been Waiting For A Woman Uke You ALL My Life-Where Can I Meet You? ·Matt 
NO CHICAGO CLUB REVIEW PARTY The NO Chicago Club will be having a Keenan Review Parly TONIGHT at the University Park Aparlment's clubhouse. II you have heard of the review and are from Chicago be there at 9:30! 
Ma. 
Thanks for the brownies' 
75 TO STAY ALIVE 
R.T.P. 


The Observer Friday, February 7, I986 -page I I 
Krug 
continuedfrom page 16 
work et,hic which makes him a respected leader by example. He's extremely loyal and a great role model for the freshmen. He's a per­son the University can be very proud of and he'll be an asset wherever he goes and in whatever he does." 
Krug has not missed a varsity match since walking on to the squad as a freshman. Religious weight lif­ting and conditioning, along with some luck, have prevented serious injury and have given Krug a rock of a body which he uses to his full advantage. 
"I wrestle in kind of a tight, in­close type ofstyle," he says. "Most of my matches are low-scoring and Coach McCann has tried to get me to open up a littk bit. Every opponent is different and, while my style is somewhat conservative, I like to think I'm ready everytime I go out there." 
A real Notre Dame man, Krug followed his grandfather, father, and brother to South Bend. He wanted to compete in a varsity sport at Notre Dame and this desire fueled a com­mitment that he has made a large part of his college life. 
"Leaving something incomplete bothers me," says Krug. "I'd rather put in the hard work and take the disappointment with the success than not compete at all. I think the key is never letting myself get self­satisfied because that's how you get beat. Each year I've felt I've had something left to prove and everyth­ing has worked out well. Besides, I 
think I'm better scholastically be­cause of the schedule wrestling gives me." 
Krug applies the same type of in­tensity to his classroom work that he does to the wrestlers' room next to the ACC pit. A mechanical engineer­ing major, Krug earned a 4.0 grade point average last semester and was accepted to the University of Chicago where he will pursue a masters de~ee in business. 
"I really want to make the most of my last month ofwrestling for Notre Dame," he says. "There really isn't much besides a few freestyle tourna­ments after college. I'd possibly like 
Queen's Castle 
I[r: ' \'t'lifi &The Knights 
· .· (:!; ,IIIJ $5 student S 8.50 ,~omolete ~....~lhllo''•M-.:Iilll __ -cut style 
MINUTES AWAY FROM CAMr'VS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women included 
We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minutes ... Not Hours lronw(!od & St. oad 23 (Across From Martin's) 
to coach in some capacity in the future." 
The remainder of Krug's season will be focused on peaking for the NCAA regionals which will take place March 1. Notre Dame's regional is considered the third best in the nation. The top three finishers in each weight class will go to the nationals and Krug's goal is to make that road trip. 
''I'll be somewhat familiar with my competition and the graduation of some good wrestlers should make it a little easier, but I'm still going to work awfully hard to advance," he says. 
McCann agrees with his captain's assessment ofthe 177-lb. class at the regionals. 
"John has not been blown out by anyone this year and has had some close decisions to people he might face again. It won't be easy, butJohn can place in the top three." 
Krug, who lives in Dillon with fel­low wrestler Dave Helmer, has helped create a solid cornerstone for the resurgence of the Notre Dame wrestling program. He says the Irish will be a consistent top twenty team in the next few years. The talent and coaching can make a national ranking possible. The com­mitment and hardwork that John Krug has given wrestling and Notre Dame can make it a certainty. 
Ditka reveals elation over Ryan's departure 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO · Mike Ditka, coach of the Super Bowl champion Chicago Bears, says he's glad to see the last of Buddy Ryan and accuses his former defensive coordinator of playing favorites and hogging credit for the Bears' success. 
"I'm not happy he's gone, I'm elated," Ditka said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
"Never again in history will, an as­sistant coach get as much credit as Buddy did," said Ditka. "I handled it well. It will be interesting to see how he handles it now that he's the head coach." 
Ryan, who put together the vaunted "46" defense that helped Chicago to an 18-I record this season, left the Bears shortly after their 46-I 0 Super Bowl victory over New England to become head coach ofthe Philadelphia Eagles. 
Ryan made it clear he feels Ditka was fortunate to have him. 
"I should be so lucky to have a Buddy Ryan around," he said. ''I'd like to have somebody around to take care of me." 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD DRIVE , SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46635 
' , 
<2 19) 272-7144

,,,ironwood liquors 
But Ryan said the Bears have such a weak schedule next season, they have a good shot at another NFL title. Among their games is one at Soldier Field with the Eagles, 7-9last season. 
Ryan came to the Bears in 1978 with head coach Neill Armstrong. He was kept on by the late George Halas, when Halas fired Armstrong after the I98I season and hired Ditka. 
By most accounts, Ditka and Ryan never hit it off well, in part because ofdiffering philosophies on defense and handling players. 
Ditka said Ryan had a. "buddy­buddy system" and played favorites. 
"I believe in playing the best I I players," said Ditka. "I don't believe in having favorite players. 1 want challenges, not preconceived situa­tions. I want everybody to have a chance to play." 
He also said Ryan took more than his share ofthe credit. 
"He took a 'lot of bows and I let him take them," said Ditka. "But he didn't let any of his assistants take any bows. 
"Some people don't give credit to anyone else. Why doesn't (offensive line coach) Dick Stanfel get more credit? We led the league in rushing three years in a row," Ditka said. 
"I never favored any players, I treated them all alike," said Ryan. "I'd jump on an all-Pro as quick as I'd jump on a rookie. Some you have to pat on the back, some you have to kick in the butt. I never had any buddy-buddy system." 
Ditka never has been a proponent of the "46" defense, in which six or seven men 'can rush the passer, leaving cornerbacks and linebackers in one-on-one coverage. 
ost Basketball and Pre-SYR 
Lauqh~ 
at 

'We Can Make You Laugh_'~;'Jif!' 
Student price is Guest judges will be John Carney (Jim McMahon look-a-like), Maureen McDonnell (Miss Virginia)and John Spatz (Senior Class President). Show is Saturday, Feb. 8, 7 pm at Washington Hall. $25 reward to the person who won't laugh. Tickets at the Ticket Stub. 
The Observer Friday, February 7,1986-page 12 
Irish hockey team travels to Army for two games against the Cadets 
By C.W. EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 
It's time to face the Black Knights on the ice. 
That's right. A weekend battle with Army at West Point, N.Y. all starts this afternoon, and continues Saturday. For the Irish hockey team, it should prove to be one ofthe most emotional series yet. 
Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith will attempt to correct a nasty tailspin that the team has taken as of late. Having lost seven of their last eight games, times have been a bit rocky for the Irish lately. 
Last weekend the Irish dropped a tough two-game series to Lake Forest. Smith hopes that won't be repeated this time around. The team is healthy and that's a definite plus. 
"Some of our players got banged up last weekend but we should be healthy and ready for the Army series," said Smith. 
"This will be an extremely emo­tional series for us because of the tradition between our two schools," Smith said. "I expect Army to be quick and to really hustle because that is the style of the service academies. Hopefully, the emotion will help us to get things turned around." 

If the Irish still have trouble put­ting the puck in the net, it may prove to be a long weekend full offrustra­tion. 
"Army is a tough, very tough team," said Assistant Coach Tom Carroll. "They play the top teams in the East." 
Nothing more really needs to be said. It should be a dandy war. 
Kovacs contributes to strength ofimpressive Irish fencing team 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
Yehuda Kovacs came to Notre Dame because he wanted a chal­lenge. 
"When I let my interest be known that I wanted to go to school in the United States, I got many offers," says the sophomore fencer. "But Coach DeCicco seemed the most serious about my coming. And when I saw that the team had lost by only one touch last year to Wayne State in the NCAA championship, I thought they might be able to use some help and I might be able to take on the challenge." 

Yehuda Kovacs 

Born in Hod Hasharon, Israel, Kovacs came to the United States with a variety offencing credentials. He won the '81 Israeli under-18 championship, competed in the junior World Championships in '82 and '83, earned first-place honors in the under-20 Israeli championships in '83 and won an unofficial Israeli foil championship in October of'84. With such success in his homeland, one might wonder why he decided to leave and come West and how in the world he managed to find South Bend. 
"A friend of mine informed me about the schools in the United States and how they could help my fencing," says Kovacs, the first Israeli fencer in Notre Dame history. "In my country there really isn't enough money to send fencers to Europe to train and the teams are part ofclubs ­they have nothing to do with your education. Here the system is so dif­ferent, with fencing programs throughout high schools and univer­sities. If I wanted to continue prac­ticing my fencing I had to come here. And as far as an education, you can't get much better than this Uni­versity." 
The Irish fencing squad is cer­tainly glad he decided to come share his talents under the Golden Dome. Kovacs currently leads all fencers on the team with 18 victories, and will be looking to up his record this weekend as the group travels to Evanston, Ill. where they will take on Northwestern, Ohio State, Case Western Reserve, Purdue and Lawrence. 
"We are just thrilled to have Yehuda with us," comments Head Coach Mike DeCicco. "Yehuda might even give the best fencers in the country a run for their money. He is an extremely talented in­dividual." 
Kovacs finds the American com­as a group," says Kovacs. "We have petition challenging, but not probably the top fencers in each impossible. Although he admits that weapon and they are all so talented. I some of the better fencers in the feel I can learn from them as much as world are found in Israel and they may learn from me. I am very Europe, he gives credit where credit glad that I found Notre Dame." is due. The Notre Dame fencing program 
"I have no doubt that Notre is very pleased that Kovacs took the Dame's fencing team is the best team challenge and found them. 
BASTA 
Ill 

presents a Bob Marley Birthday Party 
reggae 
music and videos with Dave Allert 
LEE'S 
1132 South Bend Ave. 
Friday, Feb. 7 7pm 
$2 donation supports the Rally Against Starvation 
~211.D. required Specials-

~~~ss~~~ss~~~~~~ 
SOPHOMORES 
JUNIORS 
&SENIORS 
SPEND AN AFTERNOON IN YOUR SPECIFIC CAREER INTEREST! 
CAREER ORIENTATION DAY 
TUESDAyI MARCH 11, 1986 In Indianapolis apply at the Alumni Assocation Office by Monday, February 1 0 $12.00 fee for transportation, lunch & dinner 
Limited space available sponsored by the AlumniAssociation StudentAlumniRelations Group (SAilG) 

111~ Obocrver/Paul Pahoraky 

Irish hockey team captain Bob Thebeau gathers the puck in a recentgame againstLakeForest. Thebeau andhis teammates travel to face Anny over the weekend. C. W. Ehrmanpreviews the weekend series at upper left. 

SENIORS 

TCHANCE 
I 

BLAcK (uLTURAL 

ARTS fEsnvAL 
Dicl'1 Gregory 
Human Rights tlctivist tluthor-LecturHr -Fasting E.xpert 
February 10th 7prn 
LIBRtiRY tiUDITORIUm  ~  
....  
Reception will follow.  0 3 "  
CI:  

.---------~----------------------------------­
The Observer Friday, February 7,1986 -page 13 


Syracuse forward Wendell Alexis blocks this shot in a game last year. The Irish will try to impror'e their 15-4 record in their game tomorrow against the Orangemen. Chuck Freeby previews the im­portant contest on page 16. 
TUG -0­
WAR 


!rContest 
*Halftime of 2 women's basketball games· *Finals during men's basketball game 
* Participants can win great prizes, 
including an entire outfit, courtesy of Lee Jeans
*Audience giveaways 
* Class 'monster' division (no weight restrictions) 
How YOU can enter a team: 
Just fill out the application below and you can enter to represent your dorm. Male and female dorms will be teamed together. Team weight restrictions are 700 lbs. for women and 1,000 lbs. for men. 
SEND IN YOUR APPLICATION TODAY! 
APPLICATION FORM: 
Lee Jeans TUG·O·WAR Contest 
Mydonn~-------------------------­
Name~__________Phone____ 
SEND TO: 
Kevin Lennon 
Sports Promotion Dircetor 

Department of Athletics 
A.C. C. 

Women's tennis team opens season over weekend in Springfield, Mo. 
Special to The Observer tent with the University. Panther Coming in at the number-three 
compiled a 12-1 record in the fall, singles position is Dasso. During the 
The Notre Dame women's tennis while she and her doubles partner, fall, she had a 10-2 singles record, 
team opens its spring season tomor­'junior Michelle Dasso, combined for and already owns the best winning 
row and Sunday at Springfield, Mo. a 11-2 record. percentage in a career for the Irish at 
with matches against Southwest Mis­Panther holds Irish records for .813. 
souri State, Oklahoma and Arkansas most victories in a season ( 34 ), best Juniors JoAnne Biafore and 
State. winning percentage in a season Tammy Schmidt add some depth to 
The Irish completed their fall (.944) and the best winning the roster. Biafore played her way to 
season with a 10-1 record and percentage in combined singles and an 11-2 mark in the fall, while 
captured their third-straight North doubles (.744 ). Schmidt had a 13-0 slate. Gelfman 
Star Conference title. "Susie is definitely a key factor in also points out the Improved play of 
"This is probably the toughest the number-one singles spot," says freshmen Natalie Illig and Julie Sul­
season opener I could have Gelfman. "And in doubles with livan. Illig will be looking to fill in at 
scheduled," says Irish head coach Dasso she Is wugh. She is a real the number-three doubles position 
Michele Gelfman. "But the team has leader for us and we'll miss her at the and the seventh singles slot, while 
been practicing hard and intense all end ofthe season." Sullivan will be looking to work her 
week, and if they hold that intensity Another key performer for the way up from the eighth singles posi­
we should come back 3-0." Irish is senior Mary Colligan, who tion. 
Leading the Irish in her final finished the fall season with a perfect The first home match for the Irish 
season will be senior Susie Panther, 13-0 mark. She also teamed up with will take place on March 7 and 8 
who four years ago was the first classmate Isobel O'Brien for an 1 1-0 when they play host to Bradley, St. 
woman to sign a national letter ofin-doubles slate. Mary's and Akron. 
Nine Belles qualify for Nationals 
ticipate in the 200-yard freestyle Nationals," she said. "We qualified
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
relay event. for all possible relays, and that's Sports Writer Four swimmers have qualified for really good for us." individual events, as well. Juckniess, Kuzmitz pointed out that there Nine members of the Saint Mary's Rafferty, junior Margaret Mannion are still two events In which Saint 
swim team have qualified to com­and freshman Tanya Reeves will Mary's could qualify. pete in the National Association of compete in both the 200 and 400-"Meghan Rafferty has made the Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) Na­yard medleys, and Rafferty will swim 
optional time for the 50-yard free, in the 100 and 200-yard backstroke
tionals, scheduled for March 6-9 at but she is still a little away from the Whitworth College in Spokane, events. cutoff time," she said. Wash. According to Saint Mary's Direc­
Kuzmitz added that Murtagh has The swimmers, who qualified for tor of Athletics Jo-Ann Nester, the met the optional time for the 200­
the competition by meeting certain qualifiers have achieved a great deal. yard freestyle event, as well, but she, time standards, will represent Saint "I'm thrilled that so many swim­too, Is still trying to make the cutoff Mary's in seven events, three of mers qualified," she said. "They've time. which are relays. worked hard, and they continue to Murtagh and Rafferty have the 
work hard. Some ofthe qualifiers are remainder of the season to qualifySenior Joyce Murtagh, sop­
well under the qualifying times, and 
for the events, and the two will con­homores Meghan Rafferty and Jen­
they stand a really strong chance ofa 
centrate on meeting the required
nifer Veselik, and freshman Sara good showing at Nationals." 
times at tommorrow's swim meet in Maurer will compete in the BOO­Swim Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmltz Greencastle, Ind., where the Belles yard freestyle relay, while the team' was especially pleased with the will face DePauw and Millikin at 1 of Murtagh: Rafferty, senior Anne number ofrelay teams that will com­p.m. 
"We're still working on gettingCushing and junior Patty Juckniess pete. 
our times down a little more," Kuz­will swim in the 400-yard freestyle "We have the same number of girls going as we had last year, but mitz said. "We really want to do well
relay. Juckniess, Murtagh, Rafferty 
we have more relay teams going to
and junior Mary Fisher will par-in the events at Nationals." 
DIE ONLYmiNG THAT BEATS COMING TO MIAMI FOR AVACATION ... IS COMING FOR AN EDUCATION miS SUMMER 
• 
Choose from over 400 courses offered through 14 Schools and Colleges. 

• 
Earn University credit while studying abroad -Architecture in Italy -Geography in Jamaica -Music in Holland, England, France, Switzerland and Austria -Biology in Costa Rica 

• 
Complete 12 credits of Intensive Spanish in an environment that encourages and assures learning the language 

• 
Study the ecology of the Everglades 

• 
Learn from an outstanding and distinguished faculty 

• 
Enjoy the international multi-cultural atmosphere of Greater Miami 


First Summer Session For further information, please call (1-800-626-7173) May 14 -June 20, 1986 or mail the coupon to: 
Office of Summer Sessions Second Suinmer Session University of Miami June 25-August 1, 1986 P.O. Box 248005 
Coral Gables, FL 33124 

Please send me a FREE Summer Sessions Bulletin and Application for Admission to the University of Miami Summer Sessions. 

Name _______________________________ 
Address---------------------------­City-------------------­State----------Zipcode ----­
A Gl.OBAL UNIVERSITY 
-------------------~-­
The Observer Friday, February 7,1986 -page 14 
Notre Dame men's swimming team loses close meet to Bradley, 59-54 
BySCO'IT INGLIS 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team entered its meet yesterday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center with the hope that it could just stay close to a faster Bradley University team. Before the day was ovor, however, the Irish were able to do that and more, maintaining a "tWo-point advantage into the last event before finally falling, 59-54, to the Braves. 
"This meet was a real sign of team character and pride," said satisfied Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh. "On paper, Bradley was fast enough to win every event and had the poten­
tial to make the meet really lopsided." As expected, the Bradley swim­mers started the meet off strongly, taking the first three events and building a substantial lead. Begin­ning with the 50-yard freestyle, however, the Irish men put together a string of strong races that pulled 
them back into contention. 
"Our guys took their events to heart, prepared well, and swam competitively with excellent swims coming at the right times,"added Welsh. 
Two of those excellent swims were put in by Notre Dame senior Blaise Harding (Evansville, Ind.), the only Irish double-winner. Harding had the winning times in both the 400-yard individual medley 
(4:18.60) and the 500-yard freestyle 
(4:53.14) to give his teamates the lift they needed. Coach Welsh credited the turnaround in the meet to these 
two key events. "After taking first and third in the 
I.M. to pull the meet within three points, everybody believed the meet would be close,"· stated Welsh. "Then, after the 500 free, we knew we would be in it until the last event." 
And in it they were, as the Notre Dame men took to the blocks in the 400-yard freestyle relaywith a 54-52 

~ 


FRIDAY 
75c Mixed Dri n'ks and 
aJ~[bcg rPwtt c.la IDU aw[i}ww(!]aJ SATURDAY 
Dancing come of age with... 
• 6/b} l'lftlri• 
N.D. or S.M.C. 1.0. Required~ 

advantage. The race was exciting to 
the finish, as Bradley and Notre 
Dame were dead even through three 
legs before the Braves pulled away at 
the end. 
In a gallant effort, the Irish 

foursome of Rogelio Miro, Jim 
Dowd, John Koselka and Jeff Grace 
posted a time of 3:14.74 in the last 
event, afull two seconds faster than 
any time this year for Notre Dame. 
Despite the great effort, the loss 

drops Notre Dame's season record 
to 3-5, but the Irish can still salvage a 
winning season by winning their 
next three meets. That streak could 
start tomorrow against Ferris State, a 
65-48 victor over the Irish last year, 
in a meet at 2 p.m. in the Rolfs 
Aquatic Center. 
"We're in a position to win the meet ifwe swim with the aggressive­ness and pride that was shown today,"said Welsh. "We must win · three in a row for a winning season, but our_ first job is to come back and 
swim tough here on Saturday." 
1be Obetrver/Pete Laches 

Irishforward DonaldRoyal (15) is shown putting up a shot in,a losing cause during Wednesday night's loss at Dayton. Royal and his teammates invade the Carrier Dome tomorrow to take on the eighth-ranked Syracuse Orangemen. Chuck Freeby previews the game on page 16. 


Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from Domino's Pizza. Made to order and deliv­ered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on Sunday, get four servings of Coke® for only $1.00 with your order. 
Just ask for Sunday's SP.e­cial. Available all day this Sunday ... only from Domino's Pizza. 
Call us: 277-2151 1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just request the Sunday special. Limited delivery area. © 1986 Domino·s Pizza, Inc. 

II 
DOMINO'S 
· PIZZA 
.. DELIVERS® 
· · ®FREE. 
L__________________________________ _ 
~­

.--------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------........... 


~c:»cj[Cl~---------------------------------F-ri-da~y~,F-eb-ru_ary~7~,1-9-86--~pa~g~e-15
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Universal Press Synd1cate

M/urCf/!'18( ONUWHOU,
JJHN CXIT, Y6V.:'itJV 
I'!? KIITI£R /3t INR~!J1Qf(RJf?erts! I'Hit.IIPEtP/1111. J 

ACROSS 1 Stir 5 Hindu garments 
10 Footless 14 Mighty mite 15 Defeat 16 Record 17 Shakespeare 
title name 20 Peer Gynt's 
mother 21 Eastern canal 22 Leather strips 23 -Dee River, 
N.C. 24 Fitzgerald 
specialty 25 Prevents 29 Question word 30 King topper 33 Turkish Inn 34 Meadowlands 35 Word for 
Yorick 36 Hamlet 39 Grape disease 40 Musical symbol 41 Wyo. range 42 Freefrom 
taboo 43 Blrdsto 
Brutus 44 Roam 45 Lowcard 48 Pale 47 Beach pickup 49 Levantlne 
ketch 50 Name prefix 53 Othello 56 Kind of opera 57 Usethe 
blender 58 Army group 59 Saarinen 60 Moslem princes 61 -one's time 
DOWN 1 -Harl 2 Early US 
patriot 3 Go to the 
polls 4 Ostrich's kin 5 Horrifies 6 Golfer Palmer 
!-,-4--+--1­

!Cl1986 Tribuna Madia Services, Inc All Rights Reserved 
Thursday's Solution 
7 Impolite 8 Leb.'s neigh· bor 9 Publicity 
display 10 Leaning 11 Treaty 12 Musical work 13-Plaines 18 Kind of tank 19 Shipshape 24 What elms give 25 Poplar 26 Left·hand page 27 Heath 28 Frog genus 29 Certain yams 30 "-flowing 

with..." 31 Ala-43 Woody's son 50 Kind of 32 Gravel 44 Foregoes skirt 
ridge: var. 45 Beat 51 Etcher's need 34 Sarge's boss 46 Biscuit 52 Whale 351dl-47 Brogan 53 Half an Air. 37 Stationery 48 Use a sense fly 
Item 49 Femsac 54 Daiquiri base 38 Shading clusters 55 Gist 
Campus 
FRIDAY 

•12:15 
P.M.· Friday Forum, "The College Curriculum and the Special Mission of Notre Dame," Michael Loux, dean, College of Arts and Letters, Room 124 Center for Social Concerns Building, Brown Bag or Soup and Bread U 

•3:30 
P.M. · ColloqUium, "Fearing For Our Mental lives," Prof. Aron Edidin, Notre Dame, library Lounge 

•4:00 
P.M. -Semlnar, "The Fatigue of In­service Lightweighl Rail," Peter Kurath, University of Illinois, Room 303 Cushing, Sponsored by Civil Engineering Auditorium 

•4:00 
P.M.-Recepdon for Peter Mitten, Saint Mary's Artist-in-Residence, Room 147, Sculpture Room, Moreau Hall 

•4:30 
P.M. -Colloquium, "Fixed Points and Linearization of Automorphism of Affine Space," Prof. Hanspeter Kraft, Room 226 Computer Center and Math Building, Sponsored by Mathematics Dept. 

•6:30 
P.M.. Meeting, lchthus Christian Fellowship Meeting, Library Lounge 

•7:00 
P.M. · Women's Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Illinois-Chicago, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

•7, 
9 & 11:00 P.M. -Movie, "The French Connection," Knights of Columbus Build­ing, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 P.M. ·Movie, "E.T.," En­gingeering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, U.50 

•7:30 
P.M. -Friday Night FUm Series, "The Last Metro," Annenberg Auditorium 

•8:00 
P.M.-ISO Movie, Breen-Phillips T.V. Room, Sponsored by International Stu­dents Organization, donations go to adopted children 


''You know those teeny tiny IIHie birds that walk around so trustingly Inside a crocodile's mouth? Well, I just been eatln' those IIHie guys like popcorn." 
•9:00 
P.M. · Tri-MUltary Ball, South Dining Hall. 

•AFTER 
THE REVUE · Keenan Revue Party, Parlor of Haggar College Center, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern· ment 


SATURDAY 

•2:00 
P.M. · Women's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. Xavier, ACC Arena 

•2:00 
P.M. -Men's Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Ferris State, Rolfs Aquatic Center 

•2:00 
P.M. -Wrestling, Notre Dame vs. Purdue,ACC 

•3:00 
P.M.-Voice Recital, Mary Beaudoin, Graduate Student Voice Recital, Annen­berg Auditorium, Sponsored by Music Dept. 

•7:00 
P.M. -Comedy Compeddon, "We Can Make You Laugh Or You Get S25," Washington Hall, Sponsored by SAB, S2 

•7, 
9:15 & 11:30 P.M. -Movie, "E.T.," En­gineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, 


n.so 

•7, 
9 & 11 :00 P.M. -Movie, "The French Connection," Knights of Columbus Build­ing, Sponsored by Knights ofColumbus 

SUNDAY 


•2:00 
P.M. · Kecltal, Saint Mary's Deparmtent of Music Young People's Reci­tal, Little Theatre, Saint Mary's 

•7:00 
P.M. · catholic Faith Program, "What Catholics Should Know About the Sacraments," Fr. Andre Leveille, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 

•8:00 
P.M. Lecture, "Insider's Perspective on a Political Solution to the 


U.S. Nicaraguan Conftict," Edgar Chamorro, Library Auditorium 

Feb. 7 &8 Friday and Saturday Hall of Engineering 
7:00 9:15 11:30 $1.50 


By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's wrestling team faces two excellent teams this weekend, as nationally-ranked Clemson and Purdue visit the ACC. Both teams present formidable problems for Head Coach Fran McCann. 
McCann said he hopes for a better 
performance than last year's match 
with the Tigers, which resulted in a 
43-2 loss. 

"They beat us badly last year," 
McCann said. "We would like to see 
the score a lot closer than it was last 
year. 

"They're ranked No. 20 right now 
and they've been ranked all year. 
They have a very good team." 

However, despite Clemson's na­
tional ranking, McCann said he feels 
Purdue presents the bigger chal­
lenge. 

"They have their best team in 15 
years," he said. "They're a very solid team. I think they are a little stronger than Clemson, because they have a little more balance." 
McCann said he doesn't expect to win either match, but he is looking for a good showing from his squad. 
"I want us to keep the score down this year," he continued. "I want our kids to go into the match with a positive attitude and not be in­timidated. ·I'm looking for a good meet." 
According to the coach, these are the kinds of matches important to building a solid program at Notre Dame. 
"We want to be respectable," he said. "We don't have the horses to beat them yet, but ifwe want to get a program like their programs we have to start competing well against these teams." 
Both matches are scheduled for Saturday at the ACC pit. The Purdue match will start at 2 p.m., while the Clemson match is set for 7 p.m. 
Friday, February 7,1986 -page 16 
Irish meet highly-ranked Syracuse, try to improve dismal road record 
ByCHUCK FREEBY which means only one step away homore from Greece has blossomed Sports Writer from the final four. Their scoring this year for Syracuse, scoring over balance with strength on the boards 1 0 points per game and leading the 
SYRACUSE, N.Y.-When the Notre and a great player like Pearl Was­team to second place in the NCAA in Dame basketball team embarks on hington makes them tough. They rebounding margin. its next journey, it will bear quite a have confidence and veterans and "I think the most improved player similarity to Columbus. rank up with the North Carolinas in the country is Seikaly," says 
The Irish are hoping to find a lot of and Dukes as one of the great teams Phelps. "Their front line is going to things on the road -consistency, in the country." make rebounding very important for 
confidence and a win. None of them When you talk about Syracuse, the us in this game. It's obvious we have will come easy Saturday afternoon first name that comes up is point to compete with them on the when the 14th-ranked Irish meet guard Dwayne "Pearl" Washington. boards, or we're going to have 
serious problems."
No. 8 Syracuse in a nationally­The junior is averaging 11.7 points televised matchup at the Carrier per game, but he is also collecting Dome in upstate New York. nearly eight assists each outing as The Irish will be looking for some 
Notre Dame has lost its last three the Syracuse floor general. offensive consistency, which was 
road games, and Irish coach Digger "Pearl is one of the premier lacking in the second halfof the loss Phelps sees this trip as an important guards in the country," notes Phelps. to Dayton. Phelps needs a good test for his team. "He always plays his game and not­game from his backcourt, as the 
"Right now, Syracuse is playing hing flusters him. He'll be a great Orangemen have relied on the zone better than we are," notes Phelps, NBAguard." defense throughout most of the who will look for his team to im­The supportingcastisexcellent as season. prove on its current 1 S-4 record. well, as the Orangemen boast one of "You can't shoot 39 percent on "We have not played well on the the most potent front lines in col­
the road and expect to win," states road, and that's where you improve lege basketball. Leading the way are Phelps. "We're bringing Joseph your credibility. That's the test senior forwards Rafael Addison and 
Price out of retirement for this game. He's been on sabbatical sincewe're facing. When you get con­Wendell Alexis. Addison leads the the DePaul game, but his history is tofidence on the road, you get con­squad with 17.7 points per game, play well against zones. It's going tofidence for the NCAA Tournament." while Alexis is close behind with a be up to him, (David) Rivers, (Mark)The Orangemen are certainly a 1 5.6 scoring average. 
Stevenson and Sean Connor to shoottournament-caliber squad, as they "Addison and Alexis are solid ath­well from the outside." 
enter the game with an 18-2 record, letes who can really play," com­Look for the Irish to remain withwhich includes a perfect 14-0 mark ments Phelps. "What impresses me their usual starting lineup of Kenin the Carrier Dome. In fact, Phelps most about them is their outside Barlow ( 14.0 ppg)and Donald Royal 
is highly impressed with Coach Jim shooting ability. Both of them are (9.6 ppg) at the forwards, Tim Boeheim's club. dangerous from 20 feet." 
Kempton (6.2 ppg) at center, and 
"Syracuse is a basketball team In the middle of that front line is 
Rivers ( 16.2 ppg) and Stevenson capable of being in a regional final, center Rony Seikaly. The sop-(8.4 ppg) at the guard slots. 
Krug leads by example as captain of inexperienced wrestling squad 
ByEDJORDANICH tough schedule coupled with an out­· "I've been lucky in some Sports Writer standing freshman class has tant ways as far as wrestling produced an upswing in the I've never been seriously 
As a freshman at McNicholas High program that deserves a lot ofatten­and I've had some good people, School in Cincinnati, Ohio, John tion. The anchor of Fran McCann's Phil Baty, to help me. Coach Krug went to a meeting for students team is Krug, whose leadership by McCann has been just super for me interested in wrestling. He hap­hardwork, academics, and loyalty as well as everyone. Not only in the pened to be holding the door for the has fulfilled everything his position way I wrestle -my technique and 
· head coach after the meeting, who as captain expects and more. style and so on -but his "never-say­asked him directly ifhe intended to "I really consider it an honor to be die" attitude, intensity, and handling wrestle. Put on the spot, the unsure captain," says Krug. "It's very impor­ofpressure has really rubbed off." Krug heard himself answering with tant to get new people off on the McCann has a lot of faith in the an enthusiastic yes. Itwas more than right foot, and with this great group commitment of Krug and makes no just an answer toJohn Krug. It was a of freshmen I can identify with the bones about the factors of his 177­commitment to give his best, and transition from high school to col­pound competitor's success. commitment is what the Notre lege. I took a beating when I first "Heart and desire," says McCann. Dame senior is all about. came here. The way these guys (the "John has the perfect attitude and 
Krug and this year's Irish have freshmen) have adjusted has been 
see KRUG, page 11

made the mat meaningful again. A remarkable. 

Faust can escape contract -for Notre Dame 
have yet to find another coaching position and many
Notre Dame may not have seen the last ofGerry Faust, or remain in South Bend. 
so the former Irish football coach thinks. Faust, ifyou can believe it, has an escape clause in his contract at the Uni­
Jeff 
•
versity of Akron which states that he can get out of that agreement after the first year to accept a job at Notre 

Blumb 
The Irish basketball team is going to get a little warmup
Dame. 

for the NCAA Tournamentover the course ofthe rest ofthe 
The Cleveland Plain Dealer reported in yesterday's edi­Sports Editor season. Including Wednesday night's game at Dayton,tions that Faust also can jump his Akron contract ifit is to Notre Dame plays seven of its final 10 games on the road. 
take a job at a Big Ten school or an Atlantic Coast Con­others (like Akron's success, or lack thereof, on the field), While one might think Irish coach Digger Phelps is crazy to ference school. 
it is not inconceivable that the former Irish coach could be make things so tough for his team down the stretch, he (asAs Faust himselfwas so fond ofsaying, "You silly bunny." 
looking for a job in the next couple ofyears. usual) thinks otherwise. 
Is this a bad joke, or what? 
In that event, it's safe to say Faust needn't concentrate "We're just looking to have our road schedule condition Evidently Faust doesn't think so-but is this man in touch 
us for the NCAA Tournament," Phelps says. "You couldn't with reality? 
his efforts in the area ofSouth Bend-that is, unless IUSB has 
ask for a better road schedule than we have this year." The Irish coach admits disappointment with the 2-4 an opening. 
Faust's five-year, $70,000-a-year contract also stipulates road record of his team so far this season, but points atthat he can terminate it with 30 days' notice if the Akron • tomorrow's game with Syracuse at the Carrier Domefootball program is not Division I by Dec. 1, 1987. Akron (33,000 capacity)as an ideal learning situation.
presently is a member of the Division 1-AA Ohio Valley Faust attended the Notre Dame-Dayton basketball game "We're really looking forward to all that noise," saysConference, but has applied for membership in the Mid­at UD Arena Wednesday night. He was in town to recruit Phelps. "We have not playedwell on the road the last threeAmerican Conference, a Division I conference. for Akron and to visit his two children who attend Dayton, games (BYU, North Carolina and Dayton)and need to gain
Julie (a transfer from Saint Mary's) and Gerry, Jr. Faust· 
some confidence away from home. When you have theThe contract, signed by Faust and Akron Pcesident Wil­
reported that he already has 16 oral commitments to Ak­
confidence to win on the road, especially at a place likeliam V. Muse, reads: "It is understood the University will 
ronwith four scholarshipsstill to give before next Wednes­
Syracuse, then you have the confidence to play anywhere,make every reasonable effort to establish the program as a day's signing date for high school seniors. 
anytime. And that's whatwe need to have when the tourna­
Division I football program by the 1987 football season." ment rolls around."
Despite Akron's commitment, the Zips will be facing a But while things seem to be going well for Faust these You can bet it will be awfully loud tomorrow in the Car­hard road to the Division I level. Although some schools days, the same probably could not be said for most of his rier Dome. Hopefully, Phelps will still like the noise after 
have gone from Division 1-AA to Division I in basketball, former assistants. Other than those assistants retained by it's all over. 
none have made the jump in football. For that reason an4 Lou Holtz (George Kelly,Joe Yonto and Mike Stock), none 




