-------~--~-~~~ 

Jams-page 7 


VOL. XXI, NO. 24 MONDAY,SEPTEMBER 29, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Freshman struck by car 'doing OK' in hospital 
By MARK PANKOWSKI front grill, and then was struck 
News Editor again by the top of its windshield. 
A Grace Hall freshman was in Grace Hall Rector Father fair condition at St. Joseph's Gerald Lardner ~id Gundersen Hospital Sunday night with suffered fractures of his upper bruises and a fractured jaw suf­and lower jaw in the accident. fered when he was struck by a Lardner said doctors wired car early Saturday. shut Gundersen's mouth during 
Witnesses said Craig Gunder­surgery on Saturday, and Gun­sen, 18, was hit by a car as he dersen will have to eat through crossed South Bend Avenue near a straw for the next six weeks. Corby Boulevard at about 12:.35 Lardner said doctors did not 
a.m. know when Gundersen would be 
Director of Notre Dame Secur­released. "They just want to see ity Rex Rakow confirmed that the Ifeverything is going along OK" driver of the car, a Notre Dame he explained. student, was arrested on charges Rask, a friend of Gundersen of driving under the influence of who was with him at the time of alcohol. the accident, said he visited Gun­
South Bend Police officers con­dersen at the hospital Saturday tacted Sunday would not release night. the name of the driver nor any "He's doing OK. He said he was other information about the ac­very sore," Rask said. "He cident. doesn't remember the accident 
Tom Rask, a Grace Hall fresh­at all." man who witnessed the accident, Rask added that Gundersen said Gundersen was about was disappointed that he halfway across the street when couldn't show the campus to his

Over The Uprights The Observer/Greg Kohs "the car came out of nowhere brother and three friends visiting and hit him." from Wisconsin. All of them were
An unidentified flying cheerleader studies this Saturday. The Fighting Irish routed 
Rask said Gundersen was with Gundersen at the time of
the turf during the fourth quarter of Notre Purdue's Boilermakers with a score of 41­
knocked upward by the car's the accident, Rask said.
Dame's third football game of the season 9. 


U.S. lacks anti-terrorist strategy, study says 
Associated Press While the authors were mili­stand low-Intensity conflict," the guerrilla groups around the 
tary, the report also looked at study concluded. "We respond world who are fighting Soviet­
WASHINGTON-Despite reams civilian agencies such as the without unity of effort, we exe­backed forces, particularly in of rhetoric and multi-million dol­State Department and the cute our activities poorly, and we Central America and Afghanis­lar budgets, the United States Central Intelligence Agency. lack the ability to sustain opera­tan. 
has no effective strategy to cope The report said It was intended tions." with the increasing threat of ter­as a starting point with which the America's vast and powerful But there Is no overall policy,rorism and guerrilla warfare, ac­U.S. government could under­military machine was built to the report says, warning that "a cording to a Pentagon study. stand the problem and wasn't de­fight a nuclear war or a. large­comprehensive civil-military 
The report says the U.S. effort signed "to recommend those few scale conventional war, particu­strategy must be developed to to protect its interests around the relevant 'fixes' that would settle larly In Western Europe, but was defend our Interests threatened 
world is hampered by bureau­this bothersome problem once not structured to cope with the by the series oflow-intensity con­cratic infighting and the inability and for all. As such, the project current situation, which the flicts around the globe."of U.S. leaders and agencies "to is nota blueprint buta dialogue." report notes is "neither war, nor "It must be crafted in compre­comprehend the nature of this More and more, the study peace." hensive terms, not focused on a 
type of conflict." noted, U.S. interests around the single conflict or on a single de­
The report was prepared over world are being threatened by A central feature of the Reagan partment. It must Integrate ali the past year by a joint team from "low-Intensity conflicts," a term administration's foreign policy the national resources at our dis­the Army and Air Force. There used to include terrorism and has been to strike back at terror­posal, military and non-military, are no plans to publicly release guerrilla warfare of the type ists who hit U.S. citizens, such lethal and non-lethal," It said. 
the document, although a copy being waged in Central America, as with the bombing raid on Many recent U.S. efforts have was made available to the Asso­the Mideast and the Philippines. Libya earlier this year. The ad­been hampered by failures, the ciated Press. "As a nation, we do not under-ministration is also supporting study noted. 

Soviets display dormant nuclear test range 
Associated Press The journalists and official es­Rusted rail tracks run to cor­threshold treaty with the United 
corts left Moscow on Friday in a roded Iron doors closing off States, which limits the two 
KAZAKHSTAN, U.S.S.R.-Army special Aeroflot Tu-1.34jet to the unused tunnels bored for tests. powers to underground explos­
generals opened their secret nu­city of Semipalatinsk In the The moratorium was declared ions of no more than 150 
clear test range here for a group northeast corner of Kazakhstan, on the 4oth anniversary of the kilotons. A kiloton equals the ex­
of Soviet and foreign journalists, about .370 miles from the border Aug. 6, 1945 nuclear attack on plosion of 1,000 tons of TNT. 
showing a silent, rusted site that with China. Hiroshima, Japan by the United The United States has declined 
they said proved the Kremlin had States toward the end of World tojoin the test ban, with govern­
banned nuclear tests. A smaller plane ferried the War II. ment officials citing as one rea­
Two Soviet generals on hand group from Semipalatinsk to the son the need for continued test­for the tour Saturday made it garrison for the test area, an un­Before the moratorium, all So­ing to maintain the efficiency of clear the visit was arranged to named and uncharted town viet tests on the site were carried existing weaponry. reinforce Moscow's appeals to along the lrtysh River. From out in shafts bored horizontally the United States to join the there the visitors traveled by Mi6 into the granite, said Gen. Arkady llyenko said he could not ac­moratorium on nuclear tests helicopter over salt lakes and D. llyenko, commander of the cept U.S. arguments that no fully begun by the Kremlin In August herds of wildlife to the foothills test zone area. reliable means yet existed for 1985. of the Gegelen range. monitoring nuclear blasts. 
"The aim of our journey Is to Rusted piles ofabandoned ma­A new tunnel was built for each Since July, two American sci­show you that our test site Is chinery and huge natural granite test, with the length depending entific observers and a team silent. We would like It to remain formations crumbled by the on the strength of the blast, from the Soviet Academy of that way forever," said Gen. Yuri force of earlier nuclear blasts llyenko said. Sciences have been operating 
V. Lebedev, who flew with the give the steppes the look of an He said that the Soviet Union three monitoring stations near group to the Central Asian site. open-pit mine. has strictly observed the 1974 Semlpalatinsk. 
High-level defector
I 

to speak here 
By LISA DAVISON News Staff 
The highest ranking Com­
munist official to defect to the 
West is coming to Notre 
Dame. 
Romuald Spasowskl will dis­
cuss his sudden defection and 
his life in Poland at 8 p.m. 
Tuesday In Washington Hall. 
Spasowski, former deputy 
foreign minister and a two­
time ambassador to the 
United States, requested 
asylum In the United States 
after the Polish government 
Imposed martial law in 
December of 1981 . 
"Our goal at the beginning 
of the year was to get really 
prominent speakers," said 
Steve Georgi of the Ideas Ini­
tiative Commission of the Stu­
dent Activities Board. "In the 
past, they hadn't been very 
current. (Spasowski) is very 
worldly and has met with very 
prominent people. He's very 
up-to-date on what's going on 
In Poland now." 
Spasowskl will speak about 
his rise In the Communist 
party as described In his au­
tobiography, "A Liberation of 
One." "We received a good 
review from his agent. He 
(Spasowski) tells a dramatic 
story and is very Informative. 
He is very responsive to ques­
tions," Georgi said. 
Tickets for Spasowski's lec­
ture will be available at the 
door and In the Cellar of 
LaFortune for $1. 
-~--------~~--~------~--~~~~~---~--­
The Observer Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 2 




In Brief 

A moral theologian from Georgetown University, Father Richard McCormick. S.J. has been appointed John O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics at Notre Dame. A native of Toledo, Ohio, McCormick has been Rose Kennedy Professor of Christian Ethics at Georgetown's Kennedy Center for Bloet­hics since 1973. McCormich is author of many books and a frequent contributor to such journals as "Commomweal," "America," "Catholic World," and "Review for Religious." He also has written for "Sports Illustrated." -The Observer 
Only three members of last season's "Saturday Night Live" cast will return for the show's 12th season, NBC announced Sunday. The late-night comedy series had signaled wholesale changes last season, by by portraying the entire cast caught in a fire during last season's final show. Lost in last season's shuffle were Joan Cusack. Robert Downey, Anthony Michael Hall, Terry Sweeney, Randy Quaid and Danltra Vance. ­Associated Press 
It crawled the ocean floor since Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidency, but now one of the biggest lobsters caught this year off the New Hampshire coast has a new home in Portsmouth, N.H. The 3-foot, 24-pound crustacean can be found in I.700 gallon tank at the Maine Aquarium In Saco, where It arrived late last week. The largest lobster recorded In the Gulnness Book of World Records, tipping the scales at 46 pounds in 1977, was sold to a New York City restaura­teur. -Associated Press 
America faces a dark hour Friday, and a few minutes more. That's when the new moon of October will steal between the Earth and sun, triggering an eclipse. Scientists say that the eclipse will be easy to observe across most of the United States and Canada. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
• 

The Saint Mary's College London Semester meeting for tonight at 6 has been cancelled. -The Observer 
"Careers and Ministries: Exploring Job Opportunities In Parishes" will be presented tonight at 6:30 In LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. The program will be presented by Sharon Csanyl. of the Religious Education Institute, South Bend, and Tony Garascia, from the Adult Education and Counseling Office, St. Pius X parish, Granger. Admission is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
A "brown bag seminar" will focus on the topic "The Labor Movement and Democratization in Uruguay" Tuesday at noon in 131 Declo Hall. Juan Rial. a faculty fellow from the Centro de lnformaciones y Estudios del Uruguay, will speak. -The Observer 
Students are needed to serve as tutors for Illiterate adults at the Center for Basic Learning Skills. Tutors work one day per week. Monday through Thursday, from 1:15 to 3: 1 5 p.m. Transportation is provided to and from the Center, which is located in downtown South Bend. For more Information, please contact Christopher at 283-31 1 5. -The Observer 

Weather 

South Bend and the temperatures are in 
the 80s during late September. Impossible, you say. Well, tomorrow the high will be In the low 80s and It will be mostly cloudy and breezy with a 60 percent chance of thunderstorms. Tonight. the low will be around 70 with a 70 percent chance of thunderstorms. It will be mostly cloudy and not as warm tomorrow, with a 60 per­


cent chance of showers and a high In the mid to upper 70s. -Associated Press 

-The Observer 
Design Editor . ........ Kathy Huston Accent Layout . ..... Melinda Murphy Design Assistant ...... Tom Schiesser Typist ................ Colleen Foy Typesetters .......... Chris Reardon ND Day Editor . ...... La urine Megna 
News Editor ............. Jim Riley Photographer .......... Jim Carroll Copy Editor . ........... Chris Julka ..................... Joe Vitacco Sports Copy Editor . ... Rick Rietbrock ...................... Greg Kohs Accent Copy Editor . ..... Lisa Young 
lbt O~rvtr ( l ~~ 'i~.! tHOU)'' puht.,hnl \1unJJ\ rhrough hH.Id\ t·xn·pr dunn)( 
t"Xilffi ;~nd \;.&t:atum peru,d;o.. Tht O~n'rr ., puhl•,hn.l h\ 1lw 'tudt·nl,,,ftht·l 111\t'r'll\ 
nt :"iotre Uame :.tnd '•unt \1M\·, ( ollt"J(t" 

The-()~rve-r 1!'1 01. mc:mht-r ol The-A.s.~latc-d P«~!tl ..-.11 rt·Jlrnlhu.. uun n~hh .trt' 
re!'ll""'·~d 


Non-varsity Domer Runs too much in the fast-lane 
The Non-Varsity Athletics Domer Runs are not what they used to be. An epidemic of over­competitiveness has reached another '1ust-for­the-fun-of-lt" sporting event. 
Non-Varsity Athletics sponsors a three-and a six-mile run each semester. The Domer Runs are in the fall, followed by the Irish Spring Six In the spring. A small entry fee is required to cover the cost of the T-shirt that each finisher receives. The number of entrants has averaged around 200, consisting of.students, graduate students, faculty and staff. Sunday's turnout was good, but It cer­tainly was a different crowd. 
A major change this year was the Introduction of dorm competition. For the same fee, at least four runners could sign up together, representing their dorm. When I saw this, I knew that it would be a different race than the previous six-mile races that I have run in. The competition monster would attract the runners who wanted to win, while scaring away those who just wanted to run. 
One of the great features of the earlier runs was the spectrum ofability that came outon a Saturday morning. (The latest edition was moved to Sun­day, due to the football game.) Former high school track stars, occasional joggers, women, men, stu­dents and non-students showed up in every con­dition from being a model of superior fitness to being hung-over. The "real" runners could go and win the handful of trophies, while the rest of us worked on personal records, ran with friends, or simply stayed conscious long enough to cross the finish line. 
I am not a great runnq. I just started running the summer before my freshman year, after over­coming a phobia of muscle cramps. (If you've never run before, don't worry. They go away in a few weeks.) 
What attracted me to my first Domer Run was the challenge. Having never run six miles before, I didn't know if I could. This motivated me to train harder, and I ran what turned out tq be my best time ever. Each run after that I did worse, but I kept coming back. I enjoyed the crowd as well as pushing my body to the limit. 
Several others had the same attitude about the run. As runners passed me on the grueling two­mile stretch of the golf course, I received several encouraging words. "Keep It up ... don't give up yet" and "you're doing great" mean a lot when your legs are spaghetti. 
Though I ran a slow pace in the other races, I never had to worry about humiliation. Everyone supported everyone else all the way to the end. The runners that brought up the rear got the big­gest applause at the finish line, sweetening their personal victory. This year I brought up the rear, and I even ran It two minutes faster than last year. Where was everyone else who used to run even 
Create 

Mark Weimholt 
Graphic Arts Manager 


slower than I did? They stayed home, wisely choosing to avoid the competition. 
As I rounded the fifth mile-marker, ready to collapse, I was greeted with, "Is there anyone left behind you guys?" That comment added two more miles to the run mentally. 
I had hoped to run a seven-minute mile this semester. After a few missed practice runs and several late nights during the week. I changed my goal. I decided to run the same pace as my friend Chris, who I suckered Into entering without pre­vious training. The heat dehydrated us quickly. The run soon began to be a quest for survival. 
• In the last mile, I told Chris not to worry about being last. The crowd always cheers for the final runners. When we crossed the finish line there was cheering. but not for us. They had already started the awards ceremony. I guess there were so many trophies to give away this time that they couldn't let non-serious runners like us hold up the show. 
Well, we did get our T-shirts. And no one will know whether we came in first or last. just that we ran In an event called the Domer Runs, which sounds impressive. I will run my eighth and final six-mile next spring to complete my T-shlrt ward­robe. Let's see fewer trophies and more hang­overs out there next time. 




The Tradition Begins
cleanness. A litter bit
• 
1-0


at a time. 

Congratulations Fisher Hall Football

Never be a 
GO GREEN WAVE GO

dirty bird. 


e to the travel agency in lower level LaFortune e make checks payable to: TRAVELMORE 
*NOTE CHANGE: Money is refundable only up until Sept. 30 instead of Oct. 28. 
• • • • • • • Further information will be sent to students • • • • • • • 
The Observer Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 3 


62 people killed in Beirut clashes 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT, Lebanon-Christian militia hardliners crushed a com­eback attempt by an ousted, pro­Syrian commander Sunday in 24 hours of street battles In Chris­tian east Beirut, which police said killed 62 people and wounded 198. 
Fighting began at dawn Satur­day when about 600 supporters of Elie Hobeika, former com­mander of the Lebanese Forces Christian militia, stormed across the Green Line dividing east Beirut from the Moslem western sector. 
"The last pocket of resistance was mopped up at daybreak, when 12 infiltrators from Elie Hobeika's supporters surren­dered," said a communique issued by the Lebanese Forces, the nation's largest Christian militia. 
Police confirmed that loyalists of Lebanese Forces Commander Samir Geagea defeated the pro­Hobeil~ attackers. 
There was no word on the whereabouts of Hobeika, who was ousted from the command of the Lebanese Forces by Geagea's hardliners Jan. 15 for signing a Syrlan-sponsored peace pact with Moslem militia leaders. President Amin Gemayel, himself a Maronite Catholic, was among the Chris­tians who felt the accord's power­sharing provisions conceded too, much to the Moslems. 
One report Sunday, not con­firmed, said Hobeika was in Chtaura, the Bekaa Valley town 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame received $1, I 78, I 0 I in grants during August for the support of research, facilities and equip­ment, and instructional and ser­vice programs. Research funds totaled $965,838, including: 
--$159,953 from the National 
Institutes of Health for the study 
of metals in kinases and related 
enzymes by Thomas L. Nowak, 
professor of Chemistry. 
--$152,537 from the National 
Institutes of Health for research 
on glycolipid metabolism in nor­
mal and pathological tissues by 
Subhash Candra Basu, professor 
of chemistry. 
--$124,767 from the National Institutes of Health for research on microbial iron chelators and analogs by Marvin J. Miller, as­sociate professor of chemistry. 
--$108,756 from the Flow In­dustries Inc. for the study of selective suction on the bursting phenomenon by Mohamed Gad­ei-Hak, professor of aerospace and engineering. 
--$97, 781 from Occidental Chemical Corp. for research on the biodegradative activites of bacteria in liquids and solids by Charles F. Kulpa Jr., associate professor of biological sciences. 
--$63,580 from the National Institute of Health for research on the transposon medated which houses the command headquarters of 25,000 ·Syrian troops stationed in Lebanon un­der a 1976 peacekeeping man­date from the Arab League. 
The collapse of Hobeika's thrust consolidated Geagea's po­sition as the strongman of Lebanon's 1.8 million Christians. 
Pro-Geagea militiamen in ar­mored personnel carriers and jeeps mounted with 106mm recoilless rifles on Sunday patrolled all four residential dis­tricts where street fighting raged all day Saturday. 
Hundreds of residents trapped in basements and bomb shelters by the fighting cautiously ven­tured out to take stock of losses, which police estimated at about $10 million. 


ND receives $1,178,101 in grants 
mutagenesis of NP viruses by Malcom J. Fraser Jr., assistant professor of biological sciences. 
--$60,000 from the National Science Foundation for the study of structural effects on stabilities and reactivities of carbocations by xavier Creary, associate pro­fessor of chemistry. 
--$53,727 from the National Science Foundation for studies of catalytic oxidation reactions by Eduardo E. Wolf, professor of chemical engineering. 
--$42,400 from the National Science Foundation as a supple­ment to the Presidential Young Investigator award for Jeffrey C. Kantor, assistant professor of chemical engineering. 

New tax code gets mixed reviews 
~~·j~... COMINGI H ~·~rl-OCTOBER W ,~BREAK~~~ ~ DOfi'ALU ~ I I:Condition In Bootb / T•lnBecla Relu on M-aeBed  
CaU277-7026 J.M.S. PLAZA ~erapeRoad'IRN-~ Mishawaka  

Where the need is . . • there we will be. 

As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 
HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
tax code in a generation, politicians and economists stili argued over the impact of the changes on the nation's eco­nomy. 
Concerns for the economy have been raised because the bill would repeal the investment tax credit, a major job-creating in­centive for the past two decades, and shift $120 billion In taxes from Individuals to corporations over the next five years. 
The bill also would slash Indi­vidual and corporate rates; in 1988 the top Individual rate would drop to 33 percent, the 46 percent maximum corporate rate would fall to 34 percent. Several deductions and exclusions would be reduced or eliminated. 
Individual taxes will be cut by an average of 6. 1 percent by 1988 when most provisions will be In effect. But 20.4 million couples and Individuals will pay more. Their lower rates will not make up for the loss of deduc­tions. 
TheJ)bserver 
Is now accepting applications for the following poaltlon: 


Maintenance Manager 
• Duties Include: maintenance of production equipment 
• Salaried Position 
If Interested, stop up at The Observer, 3rd Floor, Lafortune Center to fill out an application. Deadline: Wednesday, 
Oct.1 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-There were gloomy predictions Sunday that the new tax code awaiting Presi­dent Reagan's signature will be an economic disaster, but sup­porters of the sweeping package dismissed such talk as sour grapes from special interests. 
"As the special interests have been unable to retain their spe­cial preferences and deductions and so forth, they've moved to this argument that this Is going to mean the end of Western civilization as we know It," Trea­sury Secretary James A. Baker lll said on ABC. "Let me tell you . something. it is not." 
But a day after the Senate, by a 74-23 margin, gave final con­gressional approval to the broadest overhaul of the federal 



Men's and Women's Surgical Scrubs 
All sizes from S-XL Colors: Misty Green, Ciel Blue, Cranberry Shirts from $12.95-$18.95 Pants from $17.50-$23.50 
To order, call Michiana Center for Independent Living (219)133-7860 
'*Visa and Mastercard accepted 
NoueDame USC 
Fighting Irish Trojans 
Nov. 28 • Dec. 1 4 day•I 3 night• 
Tour package includes round trip airfare via United Airlines. hotel accomodations at Los Angeles Marriott. football game ticket. airport and game transportation. 
an tour escort. 
$599/penotl 
Call Sportrek/Libertyvllle Travel 
1-800-221-GAME 312-362-0222 
The Observer Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 4 

baggage handlers to help smuggle millions of dollars in cocaine through Miami Inter­national Airport. 


Dial-a-Shrinks may be out-of-order 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS-People who need counseling can turn to an increasing number of telephone therapists who offer their clients the convenience and privacy of not having to leave their home or office. 
Psychologist Marilyn F. Mason operates Tele-Psych Inc. in Min­neapolis and says many of her clients are male executives too busy to visit her in person or con­cerned about being seen enter­ing a psychologist's office. 
Some psychologists, however, are not sure that such services are in the client's best interest. 
"We have some concerns about doing therapy in this way," said David H. Mills, ethics direc­tor of the Washington-based American Psychological Associa­tion. "Our ethics code says psychotherapy is done in the context of a personal visit." 
The association has no rules governing telephone psyc­hologists, who have been crop­ping up across the country in.in­creasing numbers, Mills said. But guidelines will probably be adopted by the end of January, he said. 
The names used by telephone 
psychologists, such as Shrink 
Link In New York and Dial-a­
Shrink in Los Angeles, are trou­
bling, Mills said. 
But he added: "we are more 
interested in what they are doing 
than in what they're calling them­
selves." 
Mason, who opened a tradi­tional practice In January and added telephone service in May, charges $20 for the first 10 min­utes, $11 for an additional 1 0 minutes, payable through major credit cards. For an hour chat, her fee is $75, $5 more than she charges for an office visit. 
Unlike Mills, Jacqueline Bouhoutsos, a UCLA psychology professor and founder of the As­sociation for Media Psychology, a sub-group of the American Psy­chological Association, said she isn't bothered by telephone psy­chology. 
She equates it with radio psy­chology, which she said the public perceives as educational rather than therapeutic. 
"Back in the late 70s, there was a concern on the part of a lot of mental health profes­sionals that this kind of advice­giving might be deleterious to listeners and or callers," Bouhoutsos said. 

Then in 1981, the American Psychological Association lifted its ban on radio psychology. 
"One would think in five years, since the ethics code was changed, that the possibility of damage would have surfaced," Bouhoutsos said. "The assump­tion is if the phenomenon is not helpful It is at least innocuous." 
Insurance companies cast a wary eye on telephone counsel­ing. 
Richard C. lmbert, president of American Professional Agency Inc., a major writer of mental health malpractice insurance, said he would cancel the policy of any psychologist he learned was doing telephone psychology work. 
Mason maintains that tele­phone counseling differs little from the work of traditional psyc­hologists. 
But she is quick to point out the limitations of working by phone, and her flyers say she makes referrals when necessary. 
Mason insists she isn't offering therapy by telephone. "You can't give therapy in two or three min­utes. That's not credible," she said. 

Hunt continues for injured killer 
Associated Press 
WRIGHT CITY, Mo.-Scores of officers hunting a former mental patient accused ofthree murders Investigated a vacant trailer home Sunday, the seventh day of the search, authorities said. 
The officers, hunting with bloodhounds and a helicopter, found no trace of Michael W. Jackson as of 9 p.m., said Hal Helterhoff, agent in charge ofthe FBI's St. Louis office. 
Officers found a door open on the trailer home, but they weren't certain if It there had been a break-in, he said. Evidence col­lected from the trailer was being sent to Jefferson City for analy­sis, Helterhoff said. 
Officers blocked off the area, and some residents were kept away from their homes while the search for the armed fugitive was being conducted. 
The bearded Jackson, 41, has been at large since Sept. 22, when authorities say he began his three-state spree of murder, abductions and theft. Fears about him shattered the calm of this eastern Missouri community of about 1, 200 people, and resi­dents began arming themselves and locking their doors. 
Earlier Sunday, vultures were seen circling over a wooded area near where Jackson was last seen, and about 50 officers combed the area. Nothing was found. 
"We've had several reports of buzzards circling," said Highway Patrol Sgt. Jim Lee. "Their choice of prey I guess you could say would be decaying animal remains. They are known to sort of zero in on (dead) possum, animals, humans, whoever." 
Lee said about 50 vultures were circling a section of woods 'just west of where he was last seen." 
Officers beAan their search at dawn Sunday in the southwest city limits and an area further south, said patrol Sgt. Ron Wiedemann. 

"I think a lot of people are starting to wonder" if Jackson isn't dead, Lee said. "You ask them (officers searching on foot) their opinion, and it's about 50­50." 
Lt. Roy Foss of the Highway Patrol said about half of the ap­proximately 100 officers who had been searching for Jackson were given the day off Sunday. He said the search would con­tinue until Jackson was found or there's evidence he was not in the area. 
"It's getting more difficult each day," Foss said. 
Bloodhounds were used in Sat­urday's search until heavy rain washed away the scent. A shoe belonging to Jackson was flown to Missouri from Indianapolis, where he lived, to give the dogs the scent. 

Liberal arts education valuable, say graduates 
Associated Press 
GREENCASTLE, Ind. -The value of a college education should not be measured In how well It prepares a student for a job right out of school, three well-known DePauw University graduates said. 
Former astronaut Joseph P. Al­len, former National Urban League director Vernon E. Jor­dan Jr. and Barbara Blakemore, managing editor of Family Circle magazine, spoke on the impor­tance of a liberal arts education during ceremonies marking the school's 150th anniversary. 
Allen, who graduated in 1959, said that during his days at DePauw students learned about vacuum tubes, binary machine language, and supersonic aerodynamics. 
But if students then focused only on those subjects, they would have reached their "practi­cal limits .. . in an unbelievably short time." Little that they learned then, he said, would have prepared them for orbiting 
Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments JVOWIJEJVTING FOB FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconiea, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
~loH· i11 hdi•n· 10/1/86 and .L:l'l ONE MONTH FREE RENT 
Office at 121NO A•e DU647 
CaiA.,U.. 

YOUR As AND Bs COULD GET YOU INTO O.C.S. 
Your Bachelor ofScience (BS )or Bachelor ofArts( BA ldegree could be your ticket into Army Officer Candidate School ( OCS). 
Naturally, you have to pass mental and physical tests. Then complete basic training, and you're on your way to O.C.S. at Fort Benning, Georgia. Fourteen weeks later, you could be wearing second lieutenant's bars. 
It's not easy. But you'll come out tough. Sure in your ability to lead. You'll be in great shape. And you'll gain management skills civilian corporations look for. 
When you think about your future, O.C.S. seems like a great place to start. look into it with your Army Recruiter. 
SGT LANE 
234-4187 

ARMY. BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
Get in on the action! 
_Jbe Observer 
is looking for dedicated students wanting to get involved in college journalism. Applications are now being accepted for the following positions: 

Day Editor Copy Editor 
Applications are due by Friday. Contact Mark Pankowski, Tripp Baltz or Lynne Strand at 239-5313 or come up to the Observer office on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 

~ .........................,,............ 
the Earth, walking on the Moon or seeing Mars on television. 
Students will benent if they have a solid background in lan­guage, philosophy, science, En­glish, speech and history, said Allen, a former mission specialist with the space shuttle program who is now a vice president of Space Industries Inc. of Hous­ton. 
Jordan, who graduated in 1957 and is now a lawyer in Washington, said a liberal arts education prepares a student for the "two-thirds of our life that is not about our jobs, our work or statuses, but about dailiness, about inwardness, about our capacity for affiliations. In other words, values." 
He said he left campus with an understanding of how to use the English language, the ebb and flow of history, a grasp of the· importance of science, an ap­preciation of art and literature and knowledge about state, federal and local governments and citizen responsibility. 

The Observer Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 5 

English Muftins Flour 119n 
6pk. 
29e 
was 39¢ · 
Walnut 



Pieees 
?oz. 
99e 
~!~de A Flancy 
Green Beans .· 
15.5 oz. _,.""""" 



~w~2!2Se 
Fru1ts & Vegetables 

Fruit Cocktail, choice quality, 49ft 
heavy syrup, 16 oz. .. . . . .. . . .. . ~ Pineapple, laneyquality, sliced, 59ft 
chunk, crushed, juice pack, 20 oz. ~ California Peaches 59ft
light syrup, irregular, 29 oz. . . . . . ~ 
:~~~~=~~5 oz............49e Cherry or Blueberry 79e
Pie Filling, 21 oz. .. ......... Asparagus 69ft
grade Afancy, cut, 14.5 oz. . . . . . ~ 
:~:~A~aS.:~~soz. ...........29e Mushrooms 39ft 
stems & pieces, 4oz. .. .. .. .. .. ~ ~h~!' ~~~~.~ .................29e ~'!:.d.~~~.~~~~~~ ..........29e 
Whole White Potatoes 29ft
grade Afancy, 16 oz. .. .. .. .. .. . ~ ~~~~~ .:~.~~~~~...........39e ~~:~~~.~~~~~~~..........49e !~::!a1~a!~~co~. .............19e ~~annes~ !~~~,:~~.5 oz. 29e :a~~':,~~~.5Bo~~~~ .......39e 
Yams 39e
grade Afancy. 16 oz. .. .. .. .. .. . ~!~~~~~6 oz. .. ............39e 
51b.bag~ ~ 
was 59¢ 
Grade A Fancy 
Sweet ~ ~~~ 
._
.... 


~w~2!2Se 
Jwces and Dnnks 

100%PureOrangeJuice 99ft
unsweetened,gradeAfancy,46oz. . ~ . 100%PureGrapefrultJulce99ft
unsweetened,gradeAiancy,46oz. . ~ 
Canned Soups 
chicken noodle, cream of 
chicken, ·
Pll·~ 
cream of ·~ ~ mushroom, vegetable 
10.5­
10.75 oz. 

~wL!!2Se 


Prepared Foods 

~~~~~~e~~~~. ~5n!.........4 9e ~2u!~~~.~~.~~~~ ............99e ~~c::~~~ .~. ~~~~~ .........19e 
Elbow Macaroni or 69e
Long Spaghetti, 2 lb. .. .. . ~~~~ .~~~. ~~~!~.~ .......39e 
Tbese are not weekly speeials. These are everyday ALDielow prices. 
3207 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 9am-7pm 
Friday: 9am -8pm 
Saturday: 9am -6pm 
Closed Sunday 
©11116 ALDIInc. 
Vegetable Oil Pre-Creamed Pure 
24oz. 79e Shortening Vegetable 42oz. 79e Shortening
was 89¢ 


48oz.. SJ29 

was99¢ 
New Crop 

CaUf. Pears 
irreg., light syrup 
29oz. 
Grade A Fancy Whole Kernel or Cream StyleCom.~~ 
16.5 oz. 





~w~!!!2Se 
Baking Supplies 

~u:: ~~~~~.~~~~ .~.~~~~ ....99e 
Powdered or Brown 79e
Sugar,21b................... 
:~~te.~~~~~................89e ~v!p~~~~~.~. ~i.'~ ...........39e ~se:'zd 1 ~~~. ~~~~.~~~ ••••••••••99e Gelatin )9ft
strawberry, orange, cherry, 3oz. . . ~ Cake Mix 49ft
devil's food. white, yellow, 18.5 oz. ~ ~r~zw~l~ .~.i~ ...............69e ~~~~. ~~.~~~.~~~............2Se ~~':1a~ 1~ao~.~.~~ .~~~~~.~ ... 39e ~:~zca~~.~i.~ ...............69e ~~~t~~":a~:'~foz...:...... 69e 
Condiments and Spreads 
Peanut Butter, creamy or 99e
chunky, grade Afancy, 18 oz..... Strawberry Preserves 99e
grade Afancy, 18 oz. .. ......... catsup 69e
grade Afancy, 32 oz. .......... ~~~~~~ .~~~~.~ .~.r.~~~i~~..79e :f!~~~~~ ~~~~~ ...........79e 
929 N. Eddy South Bend, IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 10om -7pm 
Friday: 9am -8pm 
Saturday: 9am -6pm 
Closed Sunday 
69e 
was 79¢ 
6 oz. 
Housellold Items 
j~!:'~oi~~~~~...............39e ~~~~h:ko~~. ~~f.~.~ ..........59e ~:~~~:~~~~~.~~ .~~~ .......49e 
Head & Shoulders S299 
Shampoo, 15 oz. .. ........ .. :~:.e ~~~.~~~.~~ ..............SJ79 
Premium White Bread 
I 
20 oz.~± 

Bread and Pastry 

Newl Christollen with Perslpan ~~P~::~ ~~~ ~~~~~·n·y· •• •. • •• • ••• SJ99 ~6a!!~n~~ .....................39e 
was $1.49 
Da1ry and Lunch Meat 

Frozen Foods 
Jennle-0 Whole lllrkeys 99e
10 to 12 lbs............. per lb. Totino's Pizza 89ft 
sausage or combination, 11.2 oz. ~ Ban~uet Chicken or 29e
Beef Pot Pies, 8 oz. .. ...... 100% Pure Orange Juice 69e
grade Afancy, 12 oz. .......... 
Produce 
~~s;~t1 ~~t~.~~~ ............. SJ29 ~-~~i~~r~~:d~~~~0~••••••.•••49e ~.~dfa~~i~~~~.s3 ~p~~~........SJ29 Halloween Candy Headquarters Big Variety-Low Prices 


We welcome cash and food stamps. No checks please. 

Tbe Stoek-Up Store~ 
.,I 
, 1 
1 
., 
1 
,1 
., 
I 





"ie~~_O_i_n__t____________M-anda~~se~ptem-ber-29,1-986--pa-~6 
Student Body President encourages feedback 
Beginnings, births, starts, sources, first  
parts of a place or a thing, an early stage,  
initiation, setting into motion. Are you  
with me,  Saint Mary's? Think back -no,  
no, not to Adam and Eve, just the month  
of August. You've already survived a lot  
of beginnings and first for the 1986-87  
year: classes, football season, dining hall  
food,  the  library basement,  University  
Park Mall, alumns, the sweet smell of et­ 
I I r  hanol, a fight with your roommate (just a quibble, wasn't It?), Dillon Hall, a panty raid and plenty of party raids.  
r  
r  Jeanne Heller  
r r  Ouest column  
r  
I  There are more beginnings. Think back  
to elections last February. Remember the  
three  aspiring  politicians  who  came  
knocking on your door at 11:.30 p.m. to  
Introduce themselves to you? That was  
us -Jeanne Heller, Sarah Cook. and Betsy  
Burke. Remember what we said to you?  
"We want to represent you and to work  
for you. We'd appreciate your support."  
Remember what you did? You elected usl  
So here we are, not exactly sitting around,  
but getting out Into the Saint Mary's Col­ 
lege community,  working with  depart­ 
ments and administration to Improve life  
on campus. FOR YOUI We represent you.  
Ifyou're not happy, we're not happy. Sort  
of -what I mean is, If we know you're not  

happy, then we're not happy. Admittedly, I can read minds. I can! I know -hard to believe. But it's true. However, Sarah and Betsy haven't quite mastered this trick yet, so we all need your feedback -your comments, concerns, questions, criticisms, and ultimately your respect. 
"Good enough", you're thinking, "but how do I do that?!" On girls! Tell me what you think! At 5'2" I'm pretty approachable. I answer to Jeanne, Jeano, Jeanne Marie, Babydoll, Heller, and various other names which can't be printed here. I'm easy to find! Know where the Haggar Col­lege Center is? There's a third floor -yes, the Student Government offlces are up there, it's not just a ploy to get you run­ning stairs. And inside the offlces ... the offlcersl Mine's the first one -either be­cause I'm the fearless leader or because that's the only office the couch will fit in. It's a comfortable couch, I'll let you sit on it. And ifyou don't like James Taylor, you can bring a tape of your own to play, and we'll just rap. I promise to be there Sun­day through ~ednesday from 6:00p.m. -10:00 p.m. Thursday nights we're all around, but you have to catch us between Bill Cosby and Hill Street, depending on what's going on. 
Ifyou don't want to see our faces, leave a note on the door, or call the offlces at 284-5.37.3 to gripe, or we can set up a time to do that lunch thing. Guaranteed -we are always available for lunch! If you have questions about who's who (SPB, VPSA, and VPAACR), or what's what (like Board of Governance, ,Programming Board, and Student Academic Council), we want to not only tell you, but also show you! Want to see what goes on at a meeting? I'll tell you this much -we have fun, we have food, and we get things done. 
Beginnings ... a new President, some awesome sports teams boasting winning records, active clubs and organizations, faculty who know you by name, and an effective Student Government. And did you check out that Science Building?! This is an exciting year for you, so take ad­vantage of the opportunities before you, and if you signed up for a group at Ac­tivities Night, how about following through? If you have an option, tell me, not your roommate! And don't forget about lunch -I'm in the book. 
Jeanne Heller is the student body presi­dent of St. Mary's College. 

P.O.BoxQ 
Information in letter requires clarification 
Dear t:ditor: 

The Observer's account (911) of Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson's July 7th Jetter to three members ofGays and Lesbians at Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College may provide the faculty's only Information concerning the matter, as well as its only opportunity for direct comment. The topics raised merit general and responsible consideration. 
GLND-SMC requested the use of Univer­sity owned facilities for sponsored events and the opportunity to advertise in Uni­versity owned media. University facilities can ordinarily be used to acquire, modify, and express opinions without any impli­cation that the University "sanctions" those opinions or warrants their conform­Ity with orthodox Catholic doctrine. ~m 1 mistaken about that policy, or did GLND-SMC request the use of university facilities for purposes other than the ac­quisltion, modiflcation, or expression of opinion? 
Issues touching sexual preference are central to the Identity of many persons and many communities. Differences of opinion concerning such issues ought to be treated with greater respect, and the differing parties out to accord each other a greater measure of sensitivity and dig­nity than would ordinarily characterize academic discourse. Denying persons the opportunity to express deeply held and rationally formed opinions is a most un­civil form of academic behavior. But why should a University offlcial go further and suggest that a group of dissenters can only have recourse to Campus Ministry or the Counseling Center? To do pen­ance, mend their ways and receive for­giveness for their sins? To·receive therapy and overcome their inability to function normally? 
Is more at stake here? Does someone think the expression of opinion favoring homosexuality constitutes a threat to this community? Is it somehow analogous to yelling "flrel!l" In a crowded theatre? Why should It be? I hope the purposes and principles underlying Fr. Tyson's letter can be clarified for us all. 
t:d Manier Assoc. Prof of Philosophy 
Bleak alternatives to SYRs are considered 
Dear t:ditor: 

In response to the Viewpoint column of September 2.3 namely, Lou Sarabando's "Abuse of alcohol runs ram­pant at hall SYR's," I must, in defense of the remaining shreds of the Notre Dame social scene, wonder if Sarabando is as naive as he appears. He is misinformed to think that hall SYR's are simply uncon­trolled drunkfests. Certainly there are many who choose to become inebriated every chance they get, but that is hardly the norm. There are many people who know how to drink conservatively and have fun doing that. 
My worry is that the increased anti­alcohol rhetoric proclaimed by all ofthese flaming teetotalers might actually lead to a decision by the administration to abolish SYR's. Can you imagine that? No SYR's? We would be the biggest group of unhappy campers known to man. It's bad enough that you are met by the South Bend SWAT team every time you attend an off-campus party, but no SYR's? What would we do to let off our steam? The only activities I could devise to replace SYR's would be campus-wide bridge tour­naments or weekly trips to University Park mall. 
So, to all the conservatives who can't stand the sight of alcohol, please under­stand -Notre·Dame is a good university and we work hard all week long. We deserve a good party once in a while. 
Chr~topher~Rado 
Holy Cross Hall 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 

General Board



Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 

The ofigin of 

MAUREEN FARLEY to this day with great excitement. features writer Kino practiced long and hard for the competition. Because, as Hello boys and girls. Today we know, boys and girls, It takes we're going to talk about Jams. practice to be good at some­Can you say Jams? I thought you thing. doesn't It? But of all the could. rotten luck In the world, the day 
Why do you wear Jams, boys before the competition, Kino and girls? Because they're managed to tear his surfing rag pretty? Yes, they are pretty so badly that It was beyond wear. Indeed. Because everyone likes Frantic, he ran to Koli and told them? Yes that's true too. And her what had happened. maybe if you wear them every­She agreed sweetly to make one will like you too. But do you him a new one. But after he had know howJams came to be, boys gone from her, she leaned and girls? Ah, I thought not. Well against the cave wall and began gather round quick like little bun­to cry. What was she going to nys, and I will tell you a story. do? She didn't know how to sewl 
Many many moons ago in an She would just have to try. Oh, ancient surfer tribe, there lived but what If she made It badly? a surfer man named Kino. Kino He would be angry with her. And was a fine man. Not only was he so she continued to cry. But after the smartest and strongest and a bit, she stood up, wiped the most handsome of all the men back of her hand across her eyes In the tribe, but you would have and resolved to do the deed. to go far, boys and girls, to find All night she sewed. The seams a better surfer than he. All the would be straight but the length men In the tribe admired him. would be wrong. She would cut All the women had fallen In love the rag and notice she had made with him.· the collar crooked. Fixing the col-




.... 
... 
TheOI!serwr/MiteMoran 
Dillon sophomore Dan Villegas "'ams" on South Quad. 
1 
on and hold his head high. After all, it was his love's honor as well as his own that was at stake here. 
Drawing a deep breath, Koli stepped Into his surflng rag. ran a hand through his hair and stepped out Into the sunlight to join the other surfer men. A hush fell over the crowd. All eyes were riveted on him. There was an agonizing moment of silence and then the crowd went wild. Throngs of people gathered around him admiring the Jams. Compliments for Koli's sewing expertise and design flowed over him. Men looked on with admira­tion and silently vowed to have their mates learn how to sew that style of surflng rag. 
Through the crowd, Kino caught a glimpse of Koli. She looked completely exhausted ex· cept for a light burning deep in her eyes, speaking of her love for him. And he realized all at once what she had gone through. He understood the mo­tivation behind her actions more completely than he ever thought possible. And at that moment he had never loved her more. 
There are many stories about Jams. One clan tried to decorate the rags with maple syrup and that is how we discovered maple leaf rag. Another clan contracted Jam fever... but as I said there are MANY stories and they have no place here. The story I have just told Is the story of how Jams came to be. Wasn't that nice? Well boys and girls It's time to go. Tomorrow we'll have some­thing new to talk about and won't that be fun. Be good now. 
BUMMER 

Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 7 
The truth about what is 
KrisMurphy 
Altered 


In our last Installment Kris those that isn't you're in trouble, Murphy, an unknown midwes­because those who are will never tern poet, treated us to a small cease to be and that means glimpse of poetry from his up­there's going to be one hell of a coming collection entitled ·:Ice waiting list to become something Cream Head Rushes and Other that is as opposed to something Things That Make Me Cross My that isn't --like you. Eyes and go Uhhhhhhl." Due to This also means that you can't the Incredibly negative buy beer in Indiana or anywhere response, we have asked Mr. else, because It's hard to borrow Murphy to share some more of someorie's I.D. when you don't his meaningless drivel with us exist. It's even harder to flnd again in this, today's installment. someone that looks like you. So 
Our featured passages are give It up and go back to limbo from "The Meaning of Existence where you came from. and Other Stuff I Figured Out in In conclusion, being and not­the John," a philosophical hingness are just different states treatise written by Mr. Murphy. It of somethingness and 
was published last year by everybody's got something that's Murphy's own publishing compa-nothing even if they're really ny, Bonehead Books. Response somebody. Always be yourself. to this Invaluable work was If you don't who will be? 
_ multiple choice test. There's one question and flve million eighty­six possible answers. Unfortun­ately you don't know the ques­tion. This makes It relatively dlfflcult to pick the right answer. Truth Is like South Bend; not many people know where It is, and It smells funny. 

In conclusion, the search for truth Is Incredibly Important. AI· most as Important as flndlng a date for Friday's SYR. The flrst step In your journey should be the cleansing of your conscious­ness. The second step should be to buy yourselfa big can of mace because you never know what kind of sleazy dive you'll end up In searching for truth. The last step In the search for truth Is to drop philosophy and become a Phys. Ed. major because that's where the chicks are. 

But Kino had eyes for only one of his clan. Her name was Koli, and she was the loveliest woman in the world. Koli adored Kino and would do anything for him gladly. The one exception was when Kino would ask her to mend his surfing rag. (In ancient times, men sometimes did this· sort of thing.) This she dreaded with all her heart and though she would agree, It was only her great love for him that allowed her to do so. 
Perhaps I didn't mention this, but Koli was a terrible seamstress. She could never re­member how to sew even the simplest of seams though the other women of the clan would teach her again and again. 
Months passed. Kino and Koli continued living the greatest romance of the century. Winter turned to spring. And the day of the clan's annual Celebration of New Life drew near. This was a day of thanks and praise for the passage of spring. There were parties and games and best of all, a giant surfing competition In which all of the tribesmen were entered. The clan looked forward lar, she would take too much off and the whole rag would have to be abandoned and another started. And so it went. She paced the floor. She gnashed her teeth and tore at her hair... 
Dawn broke. Kino arrived finding his love fast asleep In a pile of animal skins clutching the finished surfing rag in her fist. Gently removing It from her grasp, he kissed her and with a last look, left quietly to prepare himself for the day's competi­
tion. 
As the hours of the morning passed, Kino found himself to be very busy and never actually looked at his new surfing rag un­til It was time to dress for the contest. Imagine his horror and dismay, boys and girls, when he saw what Koli had donel He was not looking at the traditional sur­flng rag that every member of the tribe wore. t1e was looking at the flrst pair of Jams In the history of mankind. 
What would he do now? He 
would be laughed out ofthe clan I 
But after a moment's thought, 
Kino realized that there was 
nothing to do but put the Jams lukewarm and this puzzled Murphy who was quoted in The New York Times Review of Chil­dren's Books as saying. "Like a guy spends months writing. from like the bottom of his guts, and then they tell me I write like a Hoosier. I dunno man, you go flgure It out.. .. " 
In an attempt to bring this book to a larger audience, we have agreed to publish excerpts from "The Meaning of Existence and Other Stuff I Figured Out In the John." Present philosophy students will appreciate Murphy as he is more precise and to the point than Socrates or Aquinas ever was. Enjoy. 
Chapter One: What Is 
What is will never cease to be as long as all Is continuous within the bounds of the uni· verse. God Is one with all that Is and all that isn't and whatever isn't now will never come into being in the near future or at least until "The Cosby Show" gets canceled. If you're one of 
Chapter Two: Is there a God? Yes. Chapter Three: How Long Is 
Forever? 
That's a good question. Forever is the amount of time that will elapse between Monday morning and Friday afternoon. Forever Is the amount of time It takes for beer to get cold in my fridge. Forever is the amount of time It takes to get food In the South Dining Hall. 
Forever Is the same as eternity which encompasses the being of all things at once and for all time. Try to Imagine eternity. Then try to imagine Tampa Bay winning the Super Bowl. Then try to im­agine all things coalescing into one for all time and existing in harrnony throughout all time/space dimensions. Kind of like a giant cosmic lint ball. Then stop trying to Imagine eternity 
and  try  to  imagine  the  next  
Sports  Illustrated  swimsuit  
issue.  

Chapter Four: What Is Truth? Truth is like a one-question 

-
The Observer Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 8 

Sports Briefs 

The ND Water Polo Club will hold practice today at 7 p.m. at Rolfs Natatorium In the ACC. For information call Dave Patchin at 28.3-4502. 
Officials for lnterhall soccer, grad football, and women's lnterhall flag football are still needed. If Interested call the NVA office at 2.39-6690. -The Observer 
The Squash Club will hold its first organizational meeting on Wednesday, October I at 7 p.m. In LaFortune's little theater. call William Mapother at 28.3-.3669 for more details. Anyone Interested is welcome to attend. 
The N.otre Dame soccer team captured first place at the Wright State tournament this weekend. Saturday, the Irish downed Miami (Ohio), 4-0, and beat the host Raiders, .3-2. Randy Morris was named the tourney's offensive MVP, and John Guignon earned defensive MVP honors. More details will appear In tomorrow's Observer -The Observer. 
Non-Varsity Athletics is offering two evening aerobics classes. "Late Night at the Rock" meets every Sunday, Mon­day, and Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. Registration may be done at the NVA office. A complete listit:tg of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 2.39-6100.. The Observer. 
Broncos beat Pats to highlight NFL action 
Associated Press 
Broncos 2 7, Patriots 20 
Sammy Winder and Gerald Wil­
lhite scored second-half touch­
downs and the Denver defense 
smothered New England in that 
half. rallying the unbeaten 
Broncos past the Patriots. 
Trailing 1.3-.3 at halftime, the 
Broncos scored on four of their 
five possessions in the second 
half. 
John Elway -who endured a dreadful first half, hitting on only six of 18 passes for 48 yards with one interception -returned to form on Denver's opening pos­session of the second half. He completed passes of 1 7 yards to Steve Watson and .32 yards to rookie Mark Jackson, then found tight end Clarence Kay for the 1-yard scoring toss. Bears 44, Bengals 7 
Sore-shouldered quarterback Jim McMahon threw three touch­down passes to Inspire a slug­gish Chicago offense to Its most 

productive performance of the 
season. 

The 4-0 Bears routed the 2-2 
Bengals in style reminiscent of 
their 1985 Super Bowl season, 
using McMahon's leadership to 
cash in on five interceptions by 
their hard-hitting linebackers 
and defensive secondary. 
Chicago built a 21-0 first quarter 
lead that was never in jeopardy. 
McMahon, making his first start since separating his shoulder three weeks ago, dove 1 yard for the Bears' first score, tossed a 2-yard scoring pass to running back Walter Payton, then launched a perfect 5.3-yard scoring bomb to wide receiver Willie Gault to complete the big­gest first-quarter scoring blitz against Cincinnati in five years. 
Steelers 22, Oilers 16 
Pittsburgh's Rick Woods returned a punt 41 yards in over­time to set up Walter Abercrombie's .3-yard touch­down run that gave the Steelers their victory over Houston. 
Steelers quarterback Mark 




Classifieds 
Malone went 11 yards on a boot­leg prior to Abercrombie's scoring run that gave Pittsburgh Its first win of the year, snapping a three-game losing streak. 
Pittsburgh's Gary Anderson kicked his third field goal of the game, a 28-yarder, to give the Steelers a 16-1.3 lead with 2:2.3 seconds left In regulation play. Houston quarterback Warren Moon rallied the Oilers with six straight completions to set up a 2.3-yard field goal by Tony Zen­dejas with 45 seconds left, sen­ding the game into overtime. 
Raiders 17, Chargers 13 
Marc Wilson threw two touch­down passes in a span of 41 seconds to spark the Los Angeles Raiders to their first win of the NFL season, a come-from­behind victory over San Diego. 
The decision left both teams with 1·.3 records. The Raiders, playing without star tailback Marcus Allen, who was sidelined because of a sprained ankle, opened the season by losing their first three games for the first time in 22 years. 

falcons 23, Bucs 20, OT 
Mlck Luckhurst's third field goal of the game, a .34-yarder 12:.35 into overtime, lifted At­lanta over Tampa Bay. The game-winning kick came at the end of a 1 0-play, 52-yard drive that consumed 6 minutes, 29 seconds and completed the Fal­cons' comeback from a 20-7 halftime deficit. 
The Falcons' 4-0 start is the best in the franchise's 21-year history. Tampa Bay, trying to reach the .500 mark for first time since the sixth week of the 1984 season, fell to 1-.3. 
Gerald Riggs, who rushed for 129 yards on 27 carries, launched the second-half rally with a 1-yard touchdown run In the third quarter. Luckhursl who kicked the game-winning field goal last week In a .37-.35 victory over Dallas, hit fleld goals of .o\..3 and 34 yards In the fourth period to force the game Into overtime. 
Domer Runs completed 
I 
Special to The Observer 
Joe Brink and Paul Matousek were the big winners in the the annual Domer Runs yesterday morning, beginning and ending at Stepan Center. 
Brink was the overall winner and the men's undergraduate division champion in the three­mile event with his time of 15:49, while Matousek took the men's graduate division and the overall title in the six-mile competition, posting a time of .31 :46. 
Also in the three-miler, Jacqui Healy was the top woman overall and in the undergraduate divi­sion with her time of 22:.39. 
Other  divisional  winners  in­ 
cluded  Andre  Barbera  In  the  
men's  faculty-staff  ( 17:2.3),  P.  

Rathbun In the women's faculty­staff (.35:26) and Pete Jarret in the men's graduate (2.3:50). 
The fastest woman in the long race was Anne Ducey, who ran in the undergraduate division, with a finishing time of 42:07. Other winners were Bob Daley in the men's undergrad class (.34:59), Scott Mainwaring in the men's faculty-staff (.36:51) and Liese Daii-Bauman (44:52). 
Tha1ksto you... itwortcs... 
for ALL OFUS UnlliedYiay 

fbt! ObS#f'l't'r Nlllrt' Dam<: olfk<:. lont<:d on tht: third tl<Hir of l.afonunt• Student <:<:nt~r. an<:pcsda.¥ill1~d adnnl!>inta frum9 a.m. until .. p.m.. Monda~· thrnut~h friday. Tlw Ohsrrt't'r Saint Mary·~ offin'. hH:att·d un the third Huor of Hagg;ar Coll<:ge ( :ent<:r. an<:pt~ da~sifkd~ frum I.!: :\Cl p.m. until :\ p.m.. ~1un· da)· thuu!lfl Frida). lkadlint: for nt:Xt·da) da~fkd~ i~ .:\ p.m ·"I das.•ifkds must ht-pr<:paid. eitht:r in pt·r..<m ur h~ mail. ( :hargt: i~ 1un·nts per fh·t' t'harK· t<:rs r da\' . 
.......................
HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'I NIR ML
LOST. Lad lea a liver & gold DVF dreee __............... ,.....
HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CAlM!
NOTICES FOR SALE
watch In ACC Gym 1 Tuea. 4:15 CALL TOM AT 1n4. .._....their Cllld1Mn rlgllt-...

Aeroblca Clan. If found pleen call 

matwo Air F-GAe or atuc1an1 tick·
Moira £1268. 

Help ate. Call Mllrk at 283-1542. God bleea TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. 
The Air Force won't be tha only onu you.
FOUND: One gold charm brecalat be­USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS
CAU DOLORES 277-11131. 

AUDIOPHILES grounded In South Band If I cannot B.P. BLITZ -LOOK SHARPII Way totwean Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at get Nlllldedl3 Air Force GA'•wlll pay. Cel go DEVASTATING 011Phaae Linear Autocorralator (nolae,... 
ductlon for all aourcea) • $1 00; Audio1712 for poaltlve I.D. 

four ND'Air Farce tlckata. Pate x4110. 
TYPING AVAILABLE Pulae Digital Time Daley (to reproduce I'd really like to go home for Fall What'a 1 happanln' Hotatutt?

FOUND: A 100% WOOL BASEBALL concert hall ambiance; lncorporatu a Braak In aomathlng other than a287-4082 
CAP AT LUNCH IN SOUTH DINING NEED 2 GA'a for SMU call Pam 283·
HaarM. Do theM pratzela have ult?
25 want:hannal amp. You aupplyHALL ON FRIDAY SEf'T. 26. CALL 
3503

Pleeee Cllll RichJOHN 283·1483. aecond pair of apeakara.) • $200;Wordprocenlng reaumee, ate. 
283-3482 D SENIORSIII Hefler 110 Preamp (audiophile quality, 
Typent quality. 287·9024. NEED 8 AIR FORCE GA'S; WILL TAKE C EXPAND YOUR HORIZONS •
reck-mountable) • $150. Alao have SOMETIME DURING THE FRIDAY recorda (many digital and 112 apeed 

LOST: GOLD CUBE·LINK BRACELET ANY PAIRSIII ... CALL 287·1785 SEE WHAT YOUR FUTURE CAN 
TYPING BY SALLY NEED 4-8 TICKETS FOR THE PURDUE HOLD I m..tara) and p,...racorded claaalcalBEFORE THE MICHIGAN GAME.

272-7573 GAME, PLEASES CONTACT PAT AT nlllld two Penn State tlcketa. Call 4224 check hera tomorrow

caaMttea. Call 2n·5912 or 239-7133. 1849 LOADS OF SENTIMENTAL VALUE AT· 
TACHEDI IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 
ELISA AT 232·5743. REWARDII FOR SALE WILL TRADE TWO GA PITT FOR TWO $$SNEED 4 AIRFORCE GA'S S$$ WILL 

GA AIR FORCE. CALL SHAWN (814) PAY$$$ CALL NANCY 3829
LOST/FOUND 

One King 4B aymphony-quallty trom­NOTRr: DAMr: ACCOUNTING ASSOCI· 
bone with F attachment • $700 or beat LOST FRESH WATER PEARL THREE CHARMS(A HALF-HEART,A Mrloua offer. One Olda tenor atudent 484-5445. Last Chancel Anyone who missed the NEED TWO GA'S FOR PITT. CALL 
LOST: ONE GOLD CHAIN WITH ATIOI'I 
trombone· $100. Call Kelly Havana at NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY TOM 3130BRACELET NEAR FISHER, MOR· CROSS, AND "PRECIOUS"). IT IS OF organization meeting and Is still Inter· 
RISEY OR LEWIS ON SATURDAY GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I 239-5837 momlnga and attamoona. esled In joining. call Mike at 1788. 
BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL MEPLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 3820. WOULD APPRECIATE ANY HELP-I IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS WANTED: 4 Pm TICKETS BADLYTV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER 
RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, CALL JOE 239-7471 OR NEEDED. CALL DAVE AT 3810
REWARD. HAVE TO FIND ITIII PLEASE CON· Elaine Seidel 
TACT LISA AT 2882, 218 LYONS. Happy •-18 little ala,lova Mike &
283-1831. THANKS
FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272·5959. GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY BUUVA, ENGRAVING ON BACK: To FOR SALE D • ..,.HEOLOGY MAJORs-· LOST WATCH, VERY SENTIMENTAL THANK YOU. BacCII 
One GE Llght'n'Eaay Steam and Dry TO LEARN ABOUT CAREER AND MIN·
Steve, love mom and dMI, 12-2563 PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL PERSONALS PLEASE CAU STEVE AT 4658 WITH 3520
Iron with a full-alza, collabalblalronlng ISTRY OPPORTUNITIES FOR STU­INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 WANTED DENTS OF
board, pad, and cover.· $25. Call Kelly Havana at 239-5837 momlnga and af· THEOLOGY PLEASE ATTEND THE IM·
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR,PANGBORN... REWARD OFFERED I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PARENTS FOR CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE
ternoona. PORTANT PROGRAM TONIGHTIIIIIIII I PITT GAME. KEEP ME FROM BREAK· BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.
TYPISTS-$500 weekly at homeI Wrlta: lNG THEIR HEARTS. CALL PETE STAPLETON LOUNGE Loat: A light blue bookbag that wee P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 AFTER 8. 28&-2348.
EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT 8:30P.M. Thank You St. Jude
DESIGN : "NOTRE DAME BEACH LEMANS HALL, ST. MARY'S CAMPUS South dining hall and Flaher hall. If BABYSITTER WANTED. 8-12 HRS. A NEED Pm TICKETS STUD OR GA • loat 9-22-18 aomewhare batwalln the CLUB" T·SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW 
FOR ONLY $8.00 . CALL GREG FOR IS THIS RUSSIA? ... COMING SOONfound call £1858 and aak for John. WK FLEXIBLE. 297-3315. 1431 JON,·1428 TODD : WILL PAY

INFORMATION AT 2n-3932. 
CASH or TRADE NOVENA THIS NOVENA MUST BE

HELPI I LOST MY FAVORITE NO SKI ALL WINTER! Cryatal Mountain Ia SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE now hiring children'• akl lnatructora NEED 2 GA'S TO ND-ALABAMA PERRY "THE DANCING BEAR"
FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T·SHIRTS, SAID FOR NINE CONSECUTIVE HAU TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE for the winter ...eon. Salary plua GAME. CALL 1-404-481-4514 AND DELECE IS AVAILABLE FOR DATES
YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL DAYS.IT HAS NEVER BEEN KNOWN GREG AT 272·3832. TO FAIL. 0 HOLY ST. JUDE, APOSTLE 
SMALL, AND HAS SMALL HOLES ALL room & board. Contact Martha Mendel ASK FOR JOE. WITH YOUNG , HOT, STEAMING, AND MARTYR, GREAT IN VIRTUEOVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL or Dave Hofacker at (816)378-2911. SLOBBERING, AGGRESSIVE SAINT 
BARB AT 1349 IF FOUND. I CANT'T MARY WOMEN; "SCREAMERS"
CAR FOR SALE '80 DODGE OMNI 024 AND RICH IN MIRACLES, NEAR FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT NEEDED: TWO PURDUE GA'S. CALL PREFERED & BRING YOUR OWN
2 door,excallent condltlon,great In PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL KINSMAN OF JESUS CHRIST, FAITH· 
-
anow and coldl 2n-3&82 3520 FUL INTERCESSOR OF ALL WHO IN· VOKE YOUR SPECIAL PATRONAGE NEED 8 GAa for AIR FORCE, OCT 18. IN TIME OF NEED, TO YOU 
IT. REWARDIIIII ROB ·3487 MONEY. 
$$$REWARDS$$ Loa! Pantax K1000 Female Roommate wanted, 

2311-5873 RECOURSE AND FROM THE DEPTH
camar1 In Hurley, Tueaday, Sept. 23. Senlo..Ored. Share 2 Bdrrn !urn apt TOP QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH Pleeae call Jenny at 2a&-2n3. gaa htd. $345. 272-1594 after 7 TICKETS CLUB" T·SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. 
OF MY HEART I HUMBLY BEG TO IN A PANICII Family coming In from WHOM GOD HAS GIVEN SUCH
$$$REWARDS$$ PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR
Jaraay and Ohio for PITT GAME· NEED GREAT POWER TO COME TO MY AS­
pari lima waltraaMa and bertandara MORE INFORMATION AT 2n-3932 OR 
$$ I NEED 1-1 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ 'SIX TIX-GMTUDI Staph 272·5417 SISTANCE. HELP ME IN MY PRESENT
LOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE· nllllded et amltty'a coney leland tap, 272-3932. 
GIES text In Hurley. li found, pleeae 125 no. michigan, aouth bend. Muat 

DAN 3273 AND URGENT PETITION. IN RETURN I need 4 Air Force GA'a. Please call I PROMISE TO MAKE YOUR NAME
return to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyona be 21. . Slightly lnaena drummer wanted for 
Hall or call 283-2889. completely twlated party band. Let the 
I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tlcketa Ann x284-5454. KNOWN AND CAUSE YOU TO BE IN­EARN UP TO $8 AN HOUR Aa a mualc do the talking. Rick 1138 or Czar 
daaparatelyl Call Mike at 283-1655. VOKED. SAY THREE OUR FATHERS, NEED 2 PENN STATE GA'S BAD. THREE HAIL MARYS, AND THREE
Taken: Red Backpack lrom South delivery driver you muet have your 1142. Yaehhhhl 
NEED 2GA PITT TICKETS CALL 312· FRED 289-9225. GLORIAS. ST JUDE, PRAY FOR USDining Hall; Weda Lunch. You can own car. Houra are flexabla. PIZZA 684-8326 COLLECT AND ALL WHO INVOKE YOUR AID.
keep aocka but I deaperataly need HUT DELIVERY Apply at 138 112 DIXIE 
notea and booka beck for Ieete Friend 

My parent• will atop loving me If I don't HELP! HELPI I AM WILLING TO DO AMEN. THANK YOU ST JUDEI Mon. Pleen return to South Dining WAY NORTH.In Roseland around the 
Needed: 2 GAa for Air Force. Call come up with 2 GA'a for tha LSU game. ANYTHING FOR 4 PITT GA'S. CALL 
x2134. Pleeae help mal Brlan£3548 MEII CHRISTY X3831 FALL FEST IS COMINGHall or call Phil at 288-6154. corner on Murray St. 




Wade Boggs and the Boston Red Sox clinched the American League East with a win overToronto yesterday. Boggs went 1-4 for the game to drop Lanza, Tom Freeman. John As­kin and Byron Spruell. 
"Our line's awesome," said Johnson. "There's not much wrong you can do bet)ind these guys." 
Holtz, who was not sure how the Irish would do against the young Purdue defense, was very happy with the results. "I was sincere when I said this was the best defense that I had seen at Purdue," he said. "I didn't know if we would have the ability to run the football. 
"But we felt that ifwe are going to be a consistent football team, we will have to run the football, and I don't think it could have come out better (than this game)." 

Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 9
The Observer 

SMC gets lessons from NCAA teams 
Agreat pizza is 
getdng harder and 


harder to find. 
lat ben It &a. Grul tuty c:naal Lui· bate to ,o out of your way to t1Dd us. dou.luuce. Real cbeele, pled freah. we ro out ot our way Lo ma.ke It won.b Topplop. topplnp. topplap. eveo step you take
•
BecaUJe you mlg'bt 

-~ Goclfatha's Pizza. 
52920 U.S. 31 N 277-5880 

r--------------COUPON--------------1 
: SUnday· Monday ' : Coupon Special Receive a medium single Ingredient qrlglnal style pizza and an qrder qfcheese bread fqr $5.50 
Good for Corry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
Delivery unll11 :00 pm weekdays Expires 10/13/86 2:00am on Friday and saturdaY 


L-----~---------------------~------­
Irish sweep Valpo with strong pitching 
By STEVE MEGARGEE 
Sports Writer 
Pre-season reports ofthe Notre Dame baseball team suggested that the Irish might not have the pitching to win consistently. But if yesterday's doubleheader against Valparaiso is any indica­tion, the Irish might have much stronger pitching this spring than anyone expected. 
The Irish took a pair of seven­inning games. 5-0 and 7-4, from the Crusaders atJake Kline Field. A pair of freshman pitchers, Brian Piotrowicz and Mike Coffey, shut out Valparaiso in their first starts of the fall. The doubleheader sweep raised Notre Dame's fall record to 3-1. 
In the first game, Piotrowicz hurled a one-hitter, with an in­field single by third baseman Tim Pollert in the second Inning 
being  the  only  offense  the  
Crusaders could muster.  
"He  pitched  very well,"  said  

Irish head coach Larry Gallo. ''He stayed ahead In the count. I'm looking at him as a starter next spring. 
"We didn't play defense really well, but Plotrowicz came back and really bore down." 
Despite the four Irish errors in the first game, Plotrowicz praised the team's fielding. 
"The team backed me up and really supported me." said Piotrowicz. "Even when they made an error, they came back and made a good play later." 
Valparaiso pitcher Doug James was able to match Piotrowicz's performance for a while. The teams were scoreless after three innings, with each side managing only one hit. 
Junior left fielder Scott Rogers led the Irish out of their tempo­rary hitting hibernation by driving a home run to left-center field. giving Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. 
Brent Bartel became the new Valparaiso pitcher one batter later, and the Irish offense gave him a rude welcome to Jake Kline Field in the fifth inning. With John Flanagan and Pat Pesavento on base, sophomore third baseman Steve Skupien rifled a hit up the middle to score Flanagan. A fly ball scored Pesavento, and a double by Rogers scored Skupien. Rogers' hit gave him three runs batted in for the game, and closed the scoring at 5-0. 
"We scored a few more runs than we did last week." said Coach Gallo. "The more we play, the better we'll hit the ball." 
Notre Dame scored a total of only seven runs in a doubleheader against Bradley last week. The Irish scored twelve in yesterday's doubleheader. 
In the second game, Mike Cof­fey did not start out as effectively as Piotrowicz, giving up three hits and walking three batters in the first three innings, but he also allowed no runs during his five-inning stint. Valparaiso scored four runs off sophomore Tom Howard in the sixth inning. 
"He (Coffey) pitched well at spots. He got behind, but he made the pitches when he had to," said Coach Gallo. "Howard was a little bit rusty, and he gave up a few hits in a row." 
Using an almost entirely differ­ent lineup in the closing game, the Irish took advantage of Val­paraiso mistakes to take an early lead. 
After getting a run in the second Inning from sophomore left fielder Pat O'Brien, sloppy Crusader defense helped Notre Dame load the bases with nobody out in the third Inning. 
Skupien made the most of this opportunity by scooping a John Shorter pitch way over the left field fence to put the Irish ahead 5·0. 
Poor Valparaiso fielding led to two more Notre Dame runs in the fourth inning. as the Crusaders made two errors on one play to help the Irish tally their last two runs in the 7-4 win. 
Tailback 
continued/rom page 12 
caught Holtz's attention more than his running. 
"Anthony Johnson is the guy who busted up the wedge on the kickoffs." said Holtz. "That's not his Intention, but he always seems to end up there." 
One of Johnson special teams 
tackles came on the kickoff im­
mediately following his fourth 
quarter touchdown run. 
But Johnson's running was just one of the key's to Notre Dame's successful running game. Holtz, who had been stressing the run all week in prac­tice, saw his running backs gain 
276 yards on 60 attempts, both highs for the season. 
In addition to Johnson, both Mark Green and Pernell Taylor had rushing touchdowns, and Tim Brown, D'Juan Francisco, and Braxston Banks combined to make the afternoon a long one for the Purdue defense. 
According to Holtz, though, the improvement in the running game over the previous weeks was bacause of the line. 
"We blocked better," Holtz said simply. "Our offensive line had been under Coach Tony Yelovich all week. and he kept saying that they'd be all right. But they really played hard, really played well." 
Johnson admitted that the run­ning is much easier behind the likes of Shawn Heffern, Chuck 

By MARISA KOSLA 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's varsity tennis team, whose record stands at 5­3, is still working towards its season goal of a perfect NAIA record. 
With their current losses falling to NCAA scholarship squads, the Belles maintain an undefeated division record. 
Last week. the team lost to St. Joseph's and Wisconsin­Milwaukee, by scores of 5-4, 5-4. 
"We should not have lost those close matches," said head coach Deb Laverie. " The team simply lacked tenacity." 
Matches are played against NCAA schools for experience. They do not affect the team's overall status in league stand­ings. Laverie explained. 
"We use the NCAA matches as learning experiences," she said. The Belles defeated league 
rival, St. Francis, 6-3, last week. 
"rt was a big win," said Deb. "St. Francis beat us last year to advance Into the Nationals." 
Last weekend, the squad travelled to DePauw, where they suffered a 6-3 defeat. Coach Laverie attributed the loss to lack of consistency. 
"The team members played well," she said. "They have the ability to win." 
Ability is one of the Belles' strongest points this season. One strength lies in freshman Jennifer Block. the No. 1 seed. 
"Jennifer has been phenomenal," exclaimed Laverie. "She beat girls who have been around college tennis for four years." 
Sophomore Shaun Boyd, has come from behind in two matches, forcing them to go three sets. 
Coach Laverie sighted, "Shaun has the desire to play hard and her hard work has paid-off." 
Freshman Buffy Heinz has ad­vanced from the number-three seed doubles, into the singles line-up. Heinz and senior cap­tain, Kim Drahota, are unbeaten In doubles matches. 
The team defeated Goshen, in a match which featured exhibi­tion play. Freshman Jane Schnell, was victorious over Gos­hen player, Emily Headings, 6-0, 6-1. Erin Flynn, a freshman, topped Wynee Martin 6-0,6-2. In doubles. the freshman team of Kelly Seppi and Lynda Cipowski handed a defeat to Headings and Martin, 6·0, 6-2. 
"These matches were very im­portant." said Laverle. "These girls have the heart to play and the desire to win," she said. 
This Tuesday, the Belles take on the University of Toledo as they prepare for their weekend Invitational. 
The Observer Monday, September 29, 1986 -page 1 0 
-
Women place 8th with strong showing 
By THERESA KELLY were "breaking stride to avoid Sports Writer failing." An important measure of the 
The Notre Dame women's quality of a cross-country team cross country team ran well is the time-gap between the first against strong competition at the and fifth finishers on the team. National Catholic Cross Country The Irish time-gap from 1985 
Championship Friday afternoon was .3:07, and this year's 1:.37 at Burke Memorial Golf Course. gap is proof of great improve­
The Irish team placed 8th over­ment. Coach Ryan has set a goal all in the 16 team field. When of a time gap of one minute for compared to last year's this year's team. fourteenth-place finish against Behind the 1-2 finishesofteam 
fifteen teams, the great improve­members Gina Procaccio ments are obvious. (17:57:8) and Vicky Huber 
Irish runner Julia Merkel ( 1 7:59:7), Villanova won the finished 18th overall with a time team title with the low score of of 19: 15:9, bettering her 35th .39 points. Boston College place finish last year by 49 finished second with 58 points. 
seconds. The number-two Irish Both are ranked among the top runner was freshman Linda Filar, sixteen teams nationally. St. who finished the three-mile Thomas, rated number one na­
day to help the Irish pummel the Boilermakers. course in 20:00:6. tionally among Division Ill See related stories on the back page. A high point for the Irish team schools, placed third with I 04 was the performance of sopho­points. ter to round out the scoring. going into this game. I said that more Theresa Rice. A transfer The Irish edged last year's"Purdue likes to put the ball up if we could eliminate some mis­
from St. Mary's, Rice was the North Star Conference cham­

Irish 
50 times a game and you have takes we could be very compet­NAJA district champion in the 800 pions, Marquette, for eighthcontinuedfrompage 12 that in mind when you play Itive." meter run. In just her first year place (214-216).them," said Notre Dame captain The Irish did eliminate the mis­running cross country, she 
the second quarter by Marv and inside linebacker Mike takes that haunted them in the finished third for the irish and Spence. Kovaleski. "We just needed to first two losses of the season 45th overall with a time of 

Mulvey

George did drive his team into take their mistakes and take ad­against Michigan and Michigan 20:25:2. Coach Dan Ryan said 
continuedfrompage 12

the endzone once on a third­vantage of them. Throwing that State, and a big victory was the Rice "ran an excellent race" and 
quarter drive, ending in a Chaney often, you know you're going to result. "has really found a place on the the Notre Dame invitational on touchdown run from the .3-yard get your share of sacks (the Irish team." the Burke Memorial Golf Course. line, and a 22-yard field goal by got two) and incompletions. Burtnett. meanwhile, was con­Despite generally slower times Top individual finishers for the Jonathan Briggs pulled the "It's great winning the first cerned about eliminating some due to the wet weather, veteran other teams were Jose Rocha Boilers to within 18 points at 27-one, It really is. But just to beat of his attire. Irish runners improved on last from Boston College in first with 
9. Purdue like we did today, in my "It sure was hot out there year's Championship times. a time of 24: 12. Gerry O'Reily But the Irish weren't finished senior year, that did a lot for us today," he said, and then was Fourth Irish finisher Kathleen turned in a second-place, 24:2 I. yet. because they're a good football asked about the bright yellow Lehman cut 1 :06 off her finish performance for Villanova. Mar~ Johnson scored again on a team. This game should really sweater he was wearing. "I don't of last year, and Nancy Loughlin queUe's James Orthmann spectacular 1.3-yard run while give us some confidence and know but I'm not gonna wear this improved by 24 seconds. finished third at 24:.37. Rounding carrying a Purdue defender with momentum." SOB again. I'm 1-2 and I'm going Coach Ryan described the out the top five, were Notre him, and Green scored on a 27-''I'm happy for our football back to different attire. It may be sharp turns on the course as Dame's Mike O'Connor and 
yard option pitch from players and I'm very proud," said a damn trenchcoat so I can put "very slippery and treacherous in Detroit's Jim Dubois, who came Andrysiak. both In the final quar-Holtz, "but then I felt that way It over my head." the rain." He said many runners in at 24:41. 



. 

~~~·--~------------------------------------~------·------------~ 
'JI['4(Jt~~~...................................................-M•o-nd•a•y•,•Se•p-te•m•b•e•r•2•9•,•1•98•6----pa~g•e•l-1 
Bloom County 
fm IS Tlf€ Off/C€ Of 71£ Atlll 
CAKTlJONIST Of ··~ f}(.{JOM f'ICIIYf/N€." HIS N6W Ctm!C 
STT?IP 5711RT6/l1?JC'II't... 
Beernuts 
Burke Breathed far Side Gary Larson 
1/NfOim/NIImY, mm't's srr<1r 
INCWtJB? TlfC WOr<!? '!?/(IT:. WHICH tWWY Cllf(7(JON/5T5 WN7 Kelll!Z~ 15 II f<IICIIIL. .Jt.Vf< TO 
MOST TIIH!Tl!INS, 
Mark Williams 
-PLEA~E IJIPE OFF THE BOTTLE BEFORE )1:)(1 PASS IT TO TNE NEXT 
PERSOAJ. 



Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Lecture, "The Role of Ideology in Senate Con­firmation of Judicial Appointees," Professors G. Robert Blakely and John Robinson, Phi Alpha Delta Legal Fraternity, Law School lounge 
3:30 -5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourses, Using the LaserWriter, room 1 15 Computing Center; and SPF Full­Screen Editor, Room 23 Computing Center, limit 10. To reg­Ister call Betty 239·5604 
4:00 · 5:30 p.m.: Lecture, Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, Departments of Pshychology and Sociology Lecture Series, "Work. Family and the Life Course: implications for social theory," by Professor Dale Dannefer, University of Rochester, Haggar Hall Auditorium 
6:30 ·8:00p.m.: Lecture, "careers and Ministries: Exploring Job Opportunities in Parishes," Religious Studies Depart­ment, Stapleton Lounge 
7:00 · 10:00 p.m.:Natural Family Planning for Married and Engaged Couples, Part II, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 7:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series, "A Star is Born," 1954, color, 154 minutes, Vincente Minnelli, Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00 p.m. Lecture, Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Se­ries, College of Arts and Letters, and Department of Philos­ophy Perspective Series: Metaphysics, "A Survey of the Prob· lem," by Professor Wilfird Sellars, University of Pittsburgh, Biology Auditorium 8:00p.m.: Concert, Alumni Organ Recital. by Becky Brulck. Sacred Heart Church 
9:45 p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Suspicion," 1941, MV, 99 minutes, Alfred Hitchcock. USA. Annenberg Auditorium 

Woodsy Owl says Stash Your Trash 
Give a hoot. 

Don,t pollute. 
Forest Service, U.S.D.A. r!lil 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Bird beaks 5 Monk's robes 
10 Engine sound 14 Malarial chill 15 Came up 16 First-class 17 Frightful 19 Edge 20 Heavenly body 21 Tilts 23 Team number 24 A Keaton 25 Morals 28 Rich fabrics 31 Vatican 
sculpture 32 Listless 33 Make lace 34 Remain 35 Canvas covers 36 Roman robe 37 Long known 38 Tennis name 39 Get know­
ledge of 40 Rising very quickly 42 Provided finances for 



43 Large-mouthed 
jars 44 Cooking fat 45 Plant insects 47 Tipped 51 Hollow stem 52 Arena 54 Dies­55 Obliterate 56 Wicked 57 Helps 58 Scratches out 59 Appointment 
DOWN 1 Okinawa city 2 Conceits 3 Reynolds or 
Bacharach 4 Peace 5 Church laws 6 Do--(des­
perate) 7 Lumber 8 Shreveport 
school letters 
9 Assemblies 1 0 Beach house 11 Lizard 12 Military group 13 Precious 
stones 18 Author Jong 22 Having frills 24 Lets fall 25 Downs or 
salts 26 Appellation 27 Like a con­
frontation 28 An acid 29 Tidal wave . 30 Viewpoint 32 Baseball's 
Roger 35 Long-tailed 
bird 36 Offered 38 Frigid 39 Enticed 41 Leaves out 42 Danish island 
group 44 Small error 49 Discharge 45 Operatic solo 50 Take out in 46 Elfin being printing 47 Auditors 53 Levin or 48-Scotia Gershwin 


announces the opening of their new offices located on the 2nd floor of LaFortune 
All are invited to stop in. 
---~~~------~-----~-~-----­
Monday. September 29, I 986 • page 12
S~orts 

Irish steam by Boilers for 1st win 

Anthony Johnson just gets into the end zone on one of his two touchdowns in Saturday's game against Purdue. Marty Strasen details the game 
Johnson helps running attack with hard running, two TDs 
By PETE GEGEN  his feelings on the afternoon.  guy with him ali the way to the  
Assistant Sports Editor  But the play everyone wanted  end zone.  
to know about was the 13-yard  "That kid's got a hell of a fu­ 
Anthony Johnson sat in front  touchdown  run  in  the  fourth  ture."  
of his locker after the game, sur­ quarter. On that play he leaped  With that touchdown, Johnson  
rounded by the press. The fresh­ over one defender. broke out of  took over the team lead in touch­ 
man tailback hadjust scored two  the grasp ofanother. and carried  down  scoring  with  three.  His  
touchdowns In leading the Irish  a  third  defender  Into  the  other  score  came  on  a  2-yard  
to a 41-9 victory over the Boiler­ endzone.  blast over the left tackle In the  
makers.  "I know there was a big hole  second quarter.  
At first. Johnson didn't know  there." said Johnson. "The line  
what to say.  just blew everyone out."  "He's  the  type  of guy  that  
A South Bend native. he had  But.  as  quarterback  Steve  makes  good  things  happen,"  
followed Notre Dame football for  Beuerlein points out. Johnson's  said Head Coach Lou Holtz.  
years.  But  instead  of reading  extra effort got him to the end  Johnson finished the day with  
about the game.  he was about  zone.  eight carries  for 34 yards.  He  
to  become  the subject of the  "He took on two guys and had  also recorded four tackles on the  
reading.  to get the most of it after the  special teams,  a role which has  
"It's just  fun  for  me."  said  initial four  or  five yards," said  
Johnson. attempting to describe  Beuerlein. "He just carried that  see TAILBACK, page 9  

Cross country team finishes fifth in National Catholic Invitational 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN The combination of the large to place five runners in the top Sports Writer field and wet course made for a twenty-five. The Irish did not at­difficult meet. Many runners took tain anything close to that goal. Friday on the Burke Memorial spills as others pushed andjock­The top five finishers came in the Golf Course, a battered and wet eyed for positions on the slick 4, 16, 37, 44, and 45 positions. men's cross-country team turned grass and mud. The Irish had The top 50 runners finished in a fifth-place performance in problems adjusting to the com­within about two minutes ofeach the 7th annual National Catholic bination. Contributing to the other in the closely-packed race. Invitational. Notre Dame's poor performance Notre Dame's young squad ran 
Notre Dame. with a point total was its inability to remain to­respectable times In the five-mile of 146, finished behind St. gether as a team, especially at run. Sophomore Dan Garrett Thomas, Loyola. Villanova. and the start of the race. turned in a 25:25 mark; junior Marquette. Notre Dame's top "We lost contact at the begin­Steve Lunney finished at 26 even; finisher, freshman Mike ning." Mulvey explained. "Our freshmen Tom O'Rourke and O'Connor came in fourth out of meet next week (Notre Dame In­Mike Rogan ran 26: 12 and 26: 14 173 runners with a time of 24:40. vitational) will be just as big. We marks, respectively. 
Junior co-captain Rick Mulvey just have to get used to running Co-captain Rick Mulvey had a expressed disappointment at the together. disappointing race. He came in team's performance. "There were brawls breaking 54th overall with a 26:25 time. 
"We just got beat." he said. out." Mulvey continued. "They but he's remaining optimistic for "We wanted to do a lot better. I pushed Mike (Rogan). he fell, and the future of the team and him­really can't make excuses." we had to jump over him. We self. 
The threat of lightning in the have to make a concerted effort "I still have confidence," he area postponed the meet's start to stay together at the begin-said. "We're a hard-working by a half hour. The extra time ning." . team. We can bounce back." before the meet allowed the Before the race, Head Coach The team next runs Friday at course to further soften with the Joe Plane explained that to win 
see MULVEY, page 10
rain. the race, Notre Dame would need 

Holtz gets first win as ND romps, 41-9 
By MARlY STRASEN "Our main priority this game Assistant Sports Editor was to go out and control the line ofscrimmage so our running Moments after Notre Dame's game could open up," said 41-9 thrashing of Purdue Satur­Beuerlein, who completed I 0 of day afternoon, choruses of the 14 passes for 1 7 4 yards and the famous "Victory March" echoed touchdown to Jackson. "We said through the Notre Dame Stadium right from the start We're going corridors. to run the ball right at you and 
It wasn't the marching band, it we're going to do it successfully.· wasn't a frenzied student body, They did that all day and that was and it wasn't a group of visiting the key. 
alumni. The sounds came from "Through the air, running the a locker room-more specifically, ball or whatever. we have so from the mouths of the players many variations and different 
who hadjust won their first game things we can do, that there's no of the 1986 season, and of Lou way anybody can stop us if we're Holtz' career as head coach of clicking in all those aspects." 
the Irish. Just ask the Boilermaker 
"It's good to win and I'm happy defense about trying to stop the for the players," Holtz said. "I Notre Dame attack. didn't doubt that we'd get it even­Excluding quarterbacks, nine tually. Notre Dame is a very, very men carried the ball for rushing special place." gains out of the Irish backfield. 
Purdue head coach Leon Mark Green carried I 7 times for Burtnett. however, is one man 73 yards to lead the team. and who is glad to be a little farther Skip Holtz even got a piece of south in the state ofIndiana right the action with a one-yard plunge now. Burtnett's Boilermakers in the fourth quarter, much to were beaten in the trenches ali the sellout crowd's delight. day long. picking up only 54 rushing yards to Notre Dame's Terry Andrysiak skippered the 276, and watching as almost first-quarter drive that ended in every error was turned into Carney's first field goal of the day points on the Irish half of the (Carney added a 49-yarder in the scoreboard. third frame) as well as a touch­
Fullback Pernell Taylor down drive in the fourth quarter, 
plunged Into the endzone off the and Steve Belles saw playing wishbone to cap a 74-yard time as Irish signal-caller late in opening drive, and the Irish the contest. 
would never look back in this "I knew he (Holtz) planned to one. Notre Dame made it 10-0 get Terry and possiblY. Steve in with one second left in the first there." Beuerlein said. "He quarter after a Jerry Chaney knows there might be some time fumble was recovered by Cedric down the line when one of these Figaro. and Irish kicker John Car­guys will have to step in to do ney booted a 42-yard field goal. thejob and, the more experience 
A James Medlock fumble on they have, the more comfortable the Purdue 20-yard line turned they're going to feel out there." Into a second-quarter touch­But the Notre Dame offense down run from two yards out by was only part of the story, as the freshman Anthony Johnson, his score might indicate. Purdue first of two scores on the day. quarterback Jeff George was And when Notre Dame quarter­held to 241 yards passing even back Steve Beuerlein found Milt though he aired the ball up 43 Jackson wide open on the times In the game (completing sideline for a 35-yard touchdown 28), with one interception late in strike late in the first half, an Irish 
see IRISH, paae 10
rout was obvious. 








