Good-page 10 


VOL. XXI, NO. 61 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

0 Tannenbaum 
Dillon Hall residents, from left to right, Brian Christmas season. With finals just around the 
Duggan, Brian Miller, Alex Torres and Jim Sul­corner, students may need decorations to 
livan trim the tree in preparation for the brighten their days. 
Teens arrested after $10,000 binge 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-Two Cal­ifornia teen-agers took off on a cross-country binge of fancy meals and new clothes after finding a suitcase stuffed with about $8,000 in drug money, but their spending spree attracted police, who arrested them five days later. 
Raymond Salter, 13, and Marc Hairrell, 14, were picked up Sunday at Port Columbus International Airport with nearly $5,000 and a bag contain­ing less than a gram of cocaine. 
Each was being held Wednes­day on a charge of drug abuse, but Columbus Police Officer Floyd Wise said he would prob­ably seek dismissal of the charges so the boys could return home to Petaluma, Calif. A detention hearing set for Wednesday was continued until Thursday. 
"They were buying fine din­ners, riding in taxis and limousines," Wise said. "They just got mixed up in something that they shouldn't have." 
Wise said the boys told police they left California Nov. 26 after Hairrell found a suitcase that had been tossed out a win­dow during a police search at a Petaluma home. It contained an estimated $8,000 in cash and a bag containing less than a gram of cocaine. 
"They didn't even realize it was cocaine," Wise said. "All they saw was the $100 bills, the 50s and the 20s." 
He said the teen-agers flew to Chicago from San Francisco on Thanksgiving Day, buying tickets under assumed names. After spending a few days in Chicago, they flew to Colum­bus, where Salter grew up. 
The youths were arrested after police were told of two teen-agers leaving $100 tips with airport concessionaires. At the time, Wise said, the boys had ditched the suitcase and stuffed the money into their pockets. 

He said he charged the boys with delinquency counts of drug abuse simply to hold them until their parents could be con­tacted. Wise said the boys had purchased round-trip tickets, so their transportation home would be no problem once they are released. 
He said the cocaine found in the boys' possession had an es­timated street value of less than $100. 
During their spending spree, the boys bought new tennis shoes, leather jackets and a pair of stereo cassette players. They also bought dinners at ex­
pensive  restaurants,  police  
said.  
"They  went  through  about  

$3,000," said Wise. He said the boys had $4,993 in their posses­sion when they were arrested. 
Wise said he was astounded no one had reported the lavish spending earlier. 
"It's true. Money talks, with­out a doubt," Wise said. 
Theologians meet for symposium at ND 
Special to The Observer 
Several Catholic and Jewish theologians met Tuesday and Wednesday at the Center for Continuing Education for a symposium entitled "Teaching and Preaching about Judaism in Christian Parishes." 
The symposium began Tues­day with a presentation by Eugene Fisher, executive sec­retary of the National Confer­ence of Catholic Bishops' Secretariat for Catholic-Jewish Relations. Fisher spoke on "The Presentation of Jews and Judaism in Catholic Teaching and Preaching." On Tuesday evening, Rabbi Leon Klenicki, director of the Department of Interfaith Affairs of the Anti­Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, gave a presentation en­titled "Objects and Subjects of Faith: How We Teach Each Other." On Wednesday mor­ning both Fisher and Klenicki led an informal seminar on "Theological Education and Christian Jewish Relations." 
Eugene Fisher has held his present post in the Bishops' Conference since 1977, the first layman so appointed. A mem­ber of the Vatican Commission for Religious Relations with the Jews, he has lectured and pub­lished widely on relations be­tween Christianity and Judaism. 
Rabbi Klenicki, a native of Argentina, began his schooling in Buenos Aires and in 1967 received his rabbinical di­ploma from the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Re­ligion in Cincinnati. The follow­ing year he delivered the major paper representing the Jewish community at the first Latin American meeting of Catholics and Jews in Bogata, Columbia, during the visit of Pope Paul IV to that country. 

The symposium was spon­sered by the Department of Theology with funds from the Crown-Minow Endowment for Jewish Studies. The purpose of the Endowment, is to encour­age exchange and understand­ing between Judaism and Christianity and to advance Jewish studies at Notre Dame by bringing together scholars and religious leaders for a se­ries of lectures, dialogues and symposia for faculty members, students and the South Bend community. 

--------·--------~--­
The Observer Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 2 
In Brief 

Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. will be honored at the Snite Museum's Fifth Annual Christmas Benefit tonight. Called "A Medieval Christmas Celebration," the event will feature Madrigal Singers, trumpeters, and the Notre Dame Glee Club. Mrs. John Higgins will be honored along with Hesburgh. She and her late husband have endowed The Snite Museum with 19th and 20th Century American Art. The late Mr. Higgins is the brother of the renowned American artist Victor Hig­gins. -The Observer 
Protests of war toys for Christmas, will be made by more than 40 of the country's best-known editorial car­toonists, including nine Pulitzer Prize winners, says car­toonist Bob Staake. "Our cartoons ask America to put Gumby, not Rambo, under the Christmas tree," said Staake. "At a time when we are supposed to be celebrating peace, it seems insane to turn war into a Christmas pres­ent," he said. -Associated Press 
Mating season was over weeks ago but a wild moose in Shrewsbury, Vt. is still making cow eyes at a brown and white Hereford named Jessica. When farm owner Larry Carrara spreads grain for his cows, the moose stands up and nudges a few cows aside to let Jessica eat. "He always watches out for Jessica," Carrara said. "He's acting like he likes it here. He's playing like a big shot," game warden Donald Gallus said Tuesday, 40 days after the love-struck moose wandered in to civilization. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Africa in Turmoil: A Search for Understanding" will be the title of a lecture by Peter W alshe, director of Mrica studies at Notre Dame, tonight at 7:30 in the Memorial Library lounge. A South Mrican native, Walshe received his university education in England and taught in South Mrica before coming to Notre Dame. -The Observer 
Tops in Blue, the United States Air Force entertainment troup, will perform tonight at 7:30 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The free song and dance variety show is sponsored by the Office of Student Activities and Notre Dame's Air Force detachment 25 ROTC.-The Ob­server 
Tonight's "Campus Perspectives" talkshow will feature Amnesty International's student director David Baltierra. From 10 to 11, the show will cover Amnesty's crusade against human rights violations and torture. Questions will be taken by Chris Shank at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The second annual Distinguished Alumni Lecture Series presents Arthur Velasquez, Jr. speaking on "Opportunities in Small Business" tonight at 7 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Velasquez is president of Azteca Tortilla Com­pany. -The Observer 
The late president of Saint Mary's, Sister Madeleva Wolff, C.S.C., will be honored at a publication party and poetry reading from 4 to 5 p.m. in LeMan Hall's Stapleton Lounge at the college. Wolff's book, "The Four Last Things" is being republished. Refreshments will be served at this free event open to the public. -The Observer 

Weather 

Every time a bell rings, an angel gets 
its wings. By the looks of the forecast, South Bend needs a lot bells ringing be­cause it will take a legion of angels to ward off the cold weather. Today brings a a 20 percent chance of snow showers with highs near 30. Decreasing clouds tonight with lows from 20 to 25. Partly 

cloudy Friday with highs from 30 to 35. 
-Associated Press 


Design Editor ..... Rob "Lux" Luxem Design Assistant ......... Bob White Typesel/ers . .......... Shawn Sexton ..................... SmedLaboe News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski Copy Editor . ......... Rachel Jarosh Sports Copy Editor . ... Rick Rietbrock Viewpoint Copy Editor Alison Pivonka 
Viewpoint Layout ...... Alice Groner Accent Copy Editors . ... Tracie Fetters ................ Caroline Gillespie Accent Layout . ..... Katy Kronenberg Typist ................ Colleen Foy ND Day Editor . ......... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor . . Theresa Harrington AdDesign ....... Catherine Ramsden Photographer . ....... Michael Moran 

Tbe Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Reaching 21 means another step in student's road 'over-the-hill' 
"Can I see your I.D?," the bartender will say with a cynical tone in his voice tonight. Those are the ominous words which strike fear into undergraduates everywhere. My impulse will be to turn around and walk out. I have been spotted. 
"Can I see your I.D.? ," the bartender will ask again impatiently. "What should I do?," I'll think, "I'm caught." 
It doesn't matter anymore, fortunately. Today is December 4th and I have been waiting 21 years for this particular day. Today I join the ranks of the "legal."
No matter how closely a bartender or boun­cer scrutinizes my Indiana driver's license, he can now find a true 21-year old who wants to patronize his establishment. 
Over the past few years I have had the op-Portunity to be legal on a temporary basis in states with lower drinking ages, but turningthe big "2-1" always marked the last hurdle to adulthood while growing up in Indiana, which always had a 21-year old limit. 

"Give me a Bud" seems to be the last sig­nificant phrase to master after a series of hurdles in the road to becoming adult. At first glance reaching the age of 21 means the phrase "over-the-hill" is not very far away. 
Of course this isn't correct. Along the trip over-the-hill I will encounter other phrases: 'what do I want for a career', 'for better and for worse', 'mama... dada', but these are only found in adult life. There are other obstacles to encounter, and now that I am adult I have to be ready for the challenge. 
It couldn't have been that long ago when my only goal was to reach double digits, the age of 10. That hurdle was long forgotten by the time I had grown up and reached the teen years. This is when my regular income began (in the form of allowance). All too soon this source will stop and I will have to search for other funding. Letters like IRS will replace the ABC's. 
Time passed until the first date occurred, the big moment. Another hurdle survived when you find out she really did like me. Now, the stakes are a little higher as I begin to search for someone to say "I do." The debate about what to do on a date changes into how many little Bearby's will be running around the house. 
There were the important occasions when "Big Wheel" turned into a 10-speed bike. Soon after, the next milestone followed as I ner­vously passed my driver's test. I now had a driver's license. It was then I should have realized that just four short years later that 
ScoH Bearby 
Viewpoint Editor 
~-).../-....., , (! ~_,
.:-J 
(..., .J-..._ ••)~ 
....._.( rc----?4-=--~...::::...-..:..::.--. ~ ~ --...o;;;;;;,;;;;:...__,\ • -=-~--~-~-~~·~P~~~~~\\~ 
~ 1~·::\G.':';:-:::... 
"'''"''*1 
rA ~'t" . . .. 
'jj. ,., ,.[~ '.· ;· · ... ·· · ''"'­··, ~-· , . _ ·. ·: ·: ·· · . " · 
1 , , /. • • ~ •• • • 
~ 

/ / • ·· . · "' 1 , license would mark my true rise to adulthood. 
The superficial goals of aging I had attained became a little more meaningful as I cast my first ballot. "The right to vote" was more than just a vote for homecoming queen. There was some responsibility now, something which was a foreshadowing that I will make a dif­ference in "the big picture." 
High school graduation marked a real transition, going away from home to a new setting. Adulthood was just around the corner, time to grow up, I thought. Fortunately I had a little extra time, for despite the growing process there is also a balance of lighter roo­ments. 
I find that just as I have surpassed one set of goals for the first 21 years more loom ahead of me. There seems to be a parallel of expe­riences from youth to adulthood and as the next 21 years begin. 
The future is rather intimidating, but so was growing up. 
I realize I have reached the verge of adul­thood as I look at my I.D., getting it ready for its first real use. If the true indication of he-coming adult is when I am no longer carded by the bartender I am glad that my I.D. pic­ture looks like I am only 18. It's just as well I will be carded for a few years to come be­cause I'm not ready to grow up entirely. 
Come to think of it, I wouldn't mind being carded for the rest of my life. No one should be able to grow up completely because there is always another challenge to meet. 
§~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
~ f'-" _/J (' Open Monday t§ 
~ ~ "41 thruSaturday
§ Basement of 12:30-5:30 
Jfr/. offon Boutonierres & Corsages ~ for this weekend 
i 
all corsages & bouts must be ordered two days in advance § 
~~.~IJf~§l~~lJX!Z!J~c;;t,~~~~«T-~~l 


The Observer Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 3 
Abrams Chair recently inaugurated at ND 
By Sean Hickey teaches will vary from year to News staff year," he said. The Abrams Chair is en-_.. 



··JIJJ••••••••• 
The inauguration of the dowed by a gift from Mr. and Abrams Chair of Jewish Mrs. Edward Abrams of At­Thought and Culture was cele­lanta, Georgia. Abrams, a brated recently, according to South Bend native, graduated Michael Loux, Dean of the Col­from Notre Dame in 1950 and lege of Arts and Letters. is presently president of 
Unlike numerous other Abrams Industries, Inc., and chairs which exist at Notre an active member of the Advi­Dame and provide ''permanent sory Council of the University's jobs for distinguished scholar­College of Arts and Letters. teachers who have made dra­Abrams also endowed the Li­matic marks in their respec­brary Collection in Jewish and tive fields," the Abrams chair Hebrew Studies at Notre "allows a new visiting faculty Dame. member to occupy the chair Mrs. Abrams is a member of every year," said Loux. the University's Women's Ad­
The visiting faculty mem­visory Council. bers, however, "must have Novelist Chaim Potok, au­made an important contribu­thor of such novels as "The tion to Jewish thought and cul­Chosen", "The Promise", and API"hoto 
" 
ture," Loux said. "Therefore, most recently, "The Book of Delicate encounter the department in which the oc­Light", was a guest speaker at Spanish bullfighter Jose Ortega Cano who was in Lima, Peru, manages to kill the bull before cupant of the Abrams Chair the inauguration. gored Sunday in his right leg during a bullfight receiving medical attention. 

b~o 
~o..~~ SPECIAL 'bt) ~ MOMENTS 
Have you seen us running around with a video camera taping senior class events, football games, candids and campus shots? 
We want you on your video! Any events coming up that you'd like on the video? Call Michelle 284-5096 

Tickets: '6 Main Floor '5 Balcony
~C.P.faykw 
(Student/Senior Discounts) For MasterCard/Visa orders: 
Explicit language, not recommended for children 
231-5157 WIIIIU,a .._..Pill 
SOPHOMORES! WIN A 2-YEAR ARMY ROTC SCHOLARSHIP ... 
And a Commission in the Army Reserves or National Guard when you graduate. 
Serve as a Reserve Officer while you pursue your civilian career. 
INTERESTED? Contact CPT Domingo 
239-6264 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININC CORPS 





-14~~
Ol 20% Discount 
not including sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C_ Students 

niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
in El Salvador. The flights coin­cide with creation of an air resupply wing to carry weap­ons to the Contra rebels -an effort that government sources said anonymously was managed by North. 
While the administration awaited appointment of an in­dependent counsel to investi­gate the once-secret arms sale to Iran and the funneling of profits through a Swiss bank account to Nicaraguan forces, Senate leaders appeared headed for creation of a single "supercommittee" to conduct its own probe. 

Army to wait to destroy old nerve gas 

Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -The Army apparently will wait an additional six months before deciding how to destroy ob­solete nerve-gas weapons stored in Kentucky, Indiana and six other states, the Lexi­ngton Herald-Leader reported Wednesday. 
The official announcement of the delay should be made Friday, according to the news­paper. 
"We are not in a position to confirm it, but we are in a po­sition to say it (delay) is very probable," said Larry Van Hoose, administrative assis­tant to U.S. Rep. Larry J. Hop­kins, R-Lexington. 
Hopkins already has told Army officials he would resist a "potentially catastrophic and profoundly dangerous rush to judgment." 
The Army's environmental impact statement, explaining its plans for disposing of the na­tion's stockpile of aging chemi­cal weapons, was scheduled for release Dec. 30. It was to be followed in January by an offi­cial decision by Secretary of the Army John 0. Marsh Jr. 
The timetable evidently has changed. "We have reason to believe it is being pushed back by as much as six months," said John Chambers, press sec­retary for Sen. Wendell Ford, D-Ky. 
An Army spokeswoman said "we are taking a hard look at the schedule," but declined to confirm any change in plans. 

Reagan 
continuedfrom page I 
that our credibility has been damaged by this entire episode and its aftermath." 
Bush said the shaping of the Iranian policy involved diffi­cult choices and was clouded by the way in which the presi­dent's goals were executed, "specifically allegations about certain activities of the Na­tional Security Council staff. Clearly, mistakes were made." 
Defense Secretary Caspar Weinberger, in France on an official trip, said Reagan received bad advice from aides advising him on a new policy toward Iran. "What he was trying to do was to open an agreement and an arrange­ment with people whom he had been advised were of a far dif­ferent character than the people he was quite properly denouncing as being fanatical lunatics in Iran. 
"I think unfortunately some of that advice has not turned out to have been accurate or correct," Weinberger said. 
Meanwhile, Transportation Department documents show that a former CIA air transport company, said to have played key roles in both arms sales to Irans and shipments to the Nicaraguan rebels, flew more than 400 tons of cargo this year into an air base used by an American-manned Contra resupply operation. 
Southern Air Transport of Miami reported it made 15 flights into a military airport 
TheObserver Thursday, December 4, 1986-page 4 
THE SPIRITED, ADVENTUROUS LOOK OF GUESS® DENIMS AT AYRES, YOUR GUESS® HEADQUARTERS 
The latest news is the Guess® denim blues, and Ayres has got'em! Step off the beaten path in one easy piece-overalls-then add a soft chambray shirt and denim jacket. Guess® 100% cotton jeans, jackets and overalls are stonewashed or bleached, soft and comfortable as if you've worn them for years. 100% cotton chambray shirts are available in stripe or floral stripe patterns. At Ayres you'll find a large collection of Guess® denims, including: jeans, 44.00 to 60.00; jackets, 75.00 to 140.00; overalls, 70.00 to 74.00; and chambray shirts, 44.00 to 54.00. Shown left: Striped chambray shirt, sizes 1,2,3,4; 44.00. Pleated 14 oz. denim overalls, sizes 1,2,3,4; 70.00. Shown right: 14 oz. denim jacket, sizes S,M,L; 75.00. Floral stripe chambray shirt, sizes 1,2,3,4; 54.00. Classic 14 oz. denim overalls, sizes 1,2,3,4; 74.00. 
Made in USA and imported, and available in Better Sportswear {0.378), all stores. 24 Hour, 7 Day, Toll-Free Order lines: Indiana, 1-800-572-9737. OH, KY, IL, Ml, 1-800-772-9737. 
The Observer Thureday, December 4, 1•-page 5 
'Blanket of soot' may be raising temps around North Pole, government study says 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A warm blanket of soot may be raising temperatures around the North Pole by ab­sorbing newly arriving sun­light as well as light reflected from the icecap below, government scien­tists reported Wednesday. 
"One pollution plume we encountered on a flight over the icecap off Barrow, Alaska, last March was the equivalent of five of six large power plants putting all their effluents in a single 
plume,"  said  Dr.  Russell  
Schnell  of  the  National  
Oceanic  and  Atmospheric  

Administration. 
The pollution "was about 100 miles wide and 1,000 feet deep, and when we first flew into it we thought we had flown into the plume of a vol­canic eruption. We didn't believe the instruments on the aircraft," Schnell said in a statement. 

The NOAA report was based on a five-nation study of the haze that has been ob­served over the Arctic region in the last three decades. 
This haze layer has been reported as much as 18,000 feet thick and scientists have expressed concern about its warming the Arctic climate, although they remain unsure of the exact effects as yet. 
There have been reports of a reduction in the amount of pack ice in the Arctic in recent years, although direct evidence has not yet tied this to the pollution layer. 
The average surface tem­perature of the Earth has risen slightly in recent years, probably a result of the so-called greenhouse ef­feet in which the increas­ingly polluted atmosphere traps more heat from the sunlight. 
The Arctic pollution prob­ably moves north from in­dustrial and chemical com­plexes in eastern Europe and Asia, NOAA said. Ex­aminations of air flow and a chemical analysis of the pol­lution indicate that some of the soot traveled as much as 4,000 miles, Schnell re­ported. 
Another participant in the study, Tony Hansen of the University of California's Lawrence Berkeley Labora­tory, said that at times the Arctic pollution exceeded levels measured over the At­lantic Ocean off the coast of New Jersey. 
Hansen said on one test flight carbon soot in the Arctic region was measured at 700 nanograms per cubic meter, while the highest con­centrations found in the New Jersey studies last January were 500 nanograms per cubic meter. A nanogram is about one-billionth of the weight of a typical paper clip. A cubic meter is a little more than a cubic yard of air. 

'Nuclear winter' test scrubbed after crash 
Associated Press 
SAN DIMAS, Calif.-A long­awaited experimental brush fire to study whether smoke and dust from an atomic war would trigger a "nuclear win­ter" was scrubbed Wednesday after a helicopter crashed while igniting a test burn. 
The pilot escaped serious in­jury, but the accident left in doubt when the $750,000 experi­ment would be performed. 
Gordon Rowley, fuels man­agement officer for the U.S. Forest Service and the official with the final say on the burn, said the fire would be res­cheduled for Friday at the ear­liest. If it does not take place by Dec. 15 or 16, it will probably have to be delayed until June because of difficulty in assem­bling the needed firefighting aircraft under favorable wea­ther conditions, he said. 
Two of the planes that were to have observed the burn promptly left the area to watch another, smaller controlled 



WHATAWEEK!
Domino's Pizza goes crazy 
LATE HOURS:
with a different special 
• coupon for every day of the weeki During the week call Sun.-Thurs. Domino's Pizza and take advantage of the coupons 
4:30 pm-2 am 
• below. • • i) Whataweek for you! Fri. & Sat. 
Ill 
4:30pm-3om
Offer Expires: 12/21/86 
NO COUPON NECESSARY 
Call Us! 232-2997 
816 Ponage Avenue
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 233-3133 
1428 Galven Street
Plaza 23 Center 
522-1164
277-8700 
Elkhar1
51400 U.S. 31 North 
289-7100 534-2675 
Goshen
4333 W. Western 
burn VVednesday near San 
Diego, said Bernie Zak, scien­
tist with Sandia National Lab­
oratory in New Mexico. 
"It's very disappointing," 
said Joel Levine, atmospheric 
chemist for the National 
Aeronautics and Space Admin­
istration. "No other experi­
ment will answer the questions 
we were planning to address. I 
think everyone's disap­
pointed." 
The chopper was dumping 
thickened gasoline to start a 5­
acre preliminary burn around 
10:40 a.m. when the cable suspending the torch from the bottom of the aircraft snagged on telephone lines, causing the crash, county fire Capt. Garry Oversby said. He said smoke from the test burn may have blocked the pilot's view of the wire. 
Eyewitness Bob Turr, a helicopter pilot reporting for radio station KFWB, said the Los Angeles County Fire De­partment "heli-torch" chopper caught on a wire across Lodi Canyon and lost its tail. He said the pilot escaped the wreckage, but the helicopter tumbled down the canyon afterward. 
"He went through the smoke, and at the very top of the ridgeline there is a set of . . . wires. What happened was the copter came across those ... wires and snagged. The front portion of the helicopter rolled over and went down the hill, disintegrating,'' Turr said. 
Helicopter pilot ·Gary Lineberry, 46, of Valencia suf­fered "some minor abrasions on his forehead,'' said chief nurse Pat Titus at Foothill Presbyterian Hospital in Glen­dora. 
Oversby said the Bell 260 helicopter was badly damaged. The tail rotor dug into the ground, breaking on impact, he said. A piece of the rotor flew off and hit the door of a nearby Forest Service fire truck car­rying several people, but none of them were hurt. 
About 200 scientists and firefighters had gathered near Johnstone Peak, 30 miles north­east of downtown Los Angeles, to observe the oft-delayed burn. The controlled fire, which was to have consumed 320 to 480 acres, had been ex­pected to create a 10,000-foot­tall smoke plume for study, said Philip Riggan, the U.S. Forest Service's scientist-in­charge of the experiment. 
MONDAY MADNESS  999  16" 2 item pizza for only $999 (value 1.41)  
TWO BIT TUESDAY  2511:  with any order cokes only 25¢ each (limit 6)  
WACKY WEDNESDAY  Two Pizzas  get two 12" Hopping pizzas for only $11.oo (value 2.09)  
THINK THICK THURSDAY  Thick Crust  12" thick crust pepperoni or sausage with double cheese only $6.so.  
FRIDAY FEAST  2 Topping Pizza  any 16" 2 topping pizza and 4 cokes only only $11.00 • (value 2.55)  
SUPER SATURDAY  FREE COKE  2 FREE cokes with any 12" pizza 4 FREE cokes with any 16" pizza  
SUNDAY STUDY BREAK  
 12" pepperoni pizza with double cheese and 2 cokes only $7.99  


Help ,.,...nt ....... .,.,...
ell> Support tt1e' 
~.tro.c9'~!!!! 

---~---------~~-­
The Observer Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 6 
17 in. Teddy Bears S399 
Imported 
RoUer 
Cookies 
99e 
16 oz. tin 
Make 
20in.Deeorated Christmas Wreath S299 

ChristmasStoek-UpStore. 
Christmas Candy BRACH'S®  
Christmas  79"' Gloria Mix  79"' Choc. Peanuts  SJ69  
Nougats 10 oz. Cut Rock  •.. ~ 10 oz...••• · · · ·•• ~ 12 oz. · • · · • • • · • · · · 79"' Choc. Covered 99"' Choc. Raisins S169  

8 oz. .. . .. . .. . . .. . ~ Cherries, 8 oz. . . ~ 12 oz. · · · · · ·· ·•· ·• -. All Filled 79"' Choc. Covered 99"' Peanut Sll 69 
Assortment, 8 oz. . ~ Minta 7.25 oz. . . . ~ Clusters, 12 oz. · · •-. 
Palmer Choc. Santa, 2.5 oz...99e 
Fru1ts & Vegetables 
FruH Cocktail, choice quality, 49e 
heavy syrup, 16 oz. .....•...•.. PlnNpple,lancyquaHty,sllced, 
59it 
chunk. crushed. jules pack. 20 oz. ~ California Peaches 
59e 
light syrup, irregular, 29 oz. . .... 
=1:=~5oz..•••••••.•.49e Cherry or Blueberry 79e
Pie Fining, 21 oz. . ••.•.••••. 
Asparagus 79e
grade A laney, cut, 14.5 oz. •.•.• Whole Kernel or Cream 
25n 
StyleCorn,gradeAicy.,16.5oz. • ~ 
:.':h:=4oz.••••••••••39e sweet Peas 
25e 
grade Alaney, 16 oz. . •..••....• 
:~:.ct.~.~~~~..........29e 
Whole White Potatoes 
29e 
grade A laney. 18 oz. ••••••••••• 
:~:~~.~~.~~~~...........39e !:~~-=-::0~ .............19e 
Cut Green Beans 
25e 
grade Afancy, 15.5 oz. •.•••.... 
FNnch Sliced Green 
29ft 
Beans, grade A laney, 15.5 oz. ~ Whole Green Selina 
39e 
grade a laney, 15.5 oz. • •••••••• 
=~~ancy.18oz.••••••••..•39e :!m~~~8oz..•••••••••••••39e 
Sll49 
Hershey's Kisses, 9 oz......... -. 
Bak1ng Suppl1es 

Diamond Walnuts 
SPound

grade A fancy, 16 oz. 
in shell 

Canned Ham 
ALDI

largesize 99~ 
or mixed nuts .... 
Low Priee 


Ju1ces and Dnnks Household Items 

Metal 
100 Pc. 
Die Cast 
99"' 
Juvenile Puzzles 
Army Jeep ... each .... 

Animal 
~~~~!du~:,~ea~:.s S 99 Christmas Tree 39e 
Decorations .. each
9'high •••••••••••••••• 
3 
soo Pc. Adult 
89e 
Puzzles •.........•. ~~:~~~ .............. SJ49 
Tomato Juice 
59e 
grade A laney, 48 oz. •.•••••••.• 
~!P~!P~!:: .................SJ99 
~n!~~·t· ~~~~ ...............SJ79 Prepared Foods 
Chunk Light 1\Jna 49e 
oil or water pack, 6.5 oz. •••.•••• 
~2u!~~~.~~~ ............99e ~:sc::.~~~ .~. ~~.~~~ .........19e 
Elbow Macaroni or 
69e 
Long Spaghetti, 2 lb. . •••• 
~~!~ .~~~.~?~.'~.~ .......39e 
Head & Shoulders S299 
Shampoo, 15 oz. . ........... 
~::~?:~~~~~.~~ .~~.~ .......49e 
G.E. Light Bulbs SJ99 80 or 100 watt, 4 pack •..••.•••••. 
Bread and Pastry 

Donuts, plain or powdered 79e 
sugar, dozen ..•••..•..••••••• 
:~!~·~. ~~~~~.~ ............29e 

These are not weekly speeiak. These are everyday ALDI®low priees. 

Da1ry and Lunch Meat ~::~~~e~a~~~~~~~ .......29e ~~:~~~4~~-~~~............99e f.~~:!·.~.~~~.~~·············· S259 
~~!~~t~~~. ~~~~~ .~~~~~.~ ..69e 
Thin Sliced 1\.lrkey, 29e 
Beef or Ham, 2.5 oz. . ••••.. 1\Jrkey Wieners · 49e 
Jennle-0, 12 oz. .............•• 
Frozen Foods Totino's Pizza 
89A 
sausage or combination, 11.2 oz. ~ Banguet Chicken or 29e 
Beef Pot Plea, 7 oz. ...•.... 100% Pure Orange Juice 69e 
grade A laney, 12 oz. ••••..•..• Green Giant Corn 
99e 
On The Cob, 6 ct. •••••••••• 100% Pure Ground SJ99 
Beef Patties, 48 oz. •........ ~J~znc.~~.~~~~.~.t!~.~~•..•...• S249 
Produce 
Calif. Sunklst Navel SJ69 
Oranges, laney grade. 4 lb. ...... ~-~s~t,~~~.t~~ ...........•.SJI9 ~~~~~~rg:!~~~~~..........49e 
Red Delicious Apples 
99e 
U.S. fancy grade. 3 lbs..•....... 
~ 

ALDI 

3207 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN Mon-Thurs: 9am-7pm Friday: 9am-8pm Saturday: 9am-6pm Closed Sunday 929N.Eddy South Bend, IN Mon·Thurs: 10am-7pm Friday: 9am-8pm Saturday: 9am-6pm Closed Sunday 
Christmas Lights 27 in. Rag Dolls
SJ9 
?ack of 50 string to string design S399 



your 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ ----------------~ 
The Observer Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 7 
ND speech and debate team made 'marked improvement' this year 
By Lisa Davison 
News Staff 
Members of the inexperi­enced Notre Dame Speech and Debate team made a "marked improvement" this year, win­ning prizes in four tourna­ments, said Frank Guliuzza, Director of Forensics. 
"At this point last year, they hadn't won anything. This year we've won eighteen trophies and awards," Guliuzza said. 
Guliuzza added that he is pleased by his team's success, especially because of their youth and inexperience at the college level. "They are a very young team with a lot of poten­tial," he said. "I think they could be a really strong group if they work hard. The only thing that would hold them back would be lack of effort." 
Guliuzza said he hopes to help qualify students for the National Individual Events Tournament and help the team 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
qualify for the National Debate Tournament. "As a team, we want to build a balance be­tween debaters and those in in­dividual events, a competitive squad as opposed to a star team," he said. 
Dominic Alfaro and Sean O'Donnell competed and qualified for a national compe­tition. "They are two of the more experienced so they can add some leadership," Guliuzza said. 
Guliuzza does some recruit­ing among incoming freshmen with an interest in forensics but students basically discover the team by "word of mouth" said Guliuzza. 
Sophomore Rob Hennig said he sought out the program him­self last year. "The people who are on the team now are people who have tried to find the pro­gram," he said. 
Guliuzza said that Hennig has performed well. "It's Hen­nig's first year of competition. He had a lot of experience in high school. He's done very well in both debate and individ­ual events," he added. 
Hennig said the two seperate events have advantages. "I can appreciate both," Hennig said. 
-------EB------­
Saint Mary's Colleg~ 
NOTRE DAME • I NOlANA 
is proud to announce a 1986 edition of 

THE 
FOUR 
LAST 


THINGS 
CoCfectedPoems 
Sister M. MadefevaWog} c.s.c. President, Saint Mary's CoJJege 1934-1961 
College Bookstore Saint Mary's College Paperback: $4.95 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Hardcover: $8.95 
"You're learning to think on your feet." 
Hennig and teammates Mike Monberg, John Failor, and Paul Bielski won first and second place in the Junior Debate division at a tourna­ment at Wayne State Univer­sity in October. 
Earlier in October, Hennig, Failor, Bielski and :Steve Rawlings captured third place finishes in the Novice Debate division at a tournament at the University of Denver. 
Guliuzza said Notre Dame hosted a debate tournament early in November. "Schools from five different states atten­ded and Notre Dame won the team championship, but as host school, declined the team award," Guliuzza said. Peggy Kramer and Alfaro won first place awards in the tourna­ment. 
According to Guliuzza, the good teams are from the tradi­tionally academically-oriented schools such as Harvard and Northwestern. He said he wants Notre Dame to be in­cluded in this group, because "it would be a real boon for Notre Dame to be strong again in speech and debate." 
Hennig said, "What we need, I think, to build an effective program is more resources, more support from the univer­sity in the form of graduate as­sistance and office space." 
For the rest of the year the team will prepare for regional tournaments, Guliuzza said. 
...,... 

~TASTC of"''rH(-ORI! N: STIR FRY VEGETABLES CH/CKfN 
SHRIMP 
RICE PORK f BfH • " FRI£0 SHRIMP ~ 
,, fGG AOU ,_f. 
fHOT BfV 
COLO BEV 
CHOCOLArf 
·-...... 
'l'he Observei:'Mike Mor•n 

But no fortune cookies 
Junior Becky Gunderman checks the cooking out at the new oriental food stand in the recently re-opened Huddle. With orien­tal, Mexican, health, hamburger and ice cream stands the Huddle will go a long way in solving student's hunger problems. 
Report says thyroid pills can relieve PMS 
Associated Press said they doubt that underac­tive thyroids-what's known as 
BOSTON -Thyroid hormone hypothyroidism -contribute to pills can relieve premenstrual premenstrual syndrome for syndrome for many women most victims of the common whose symptoms appear to be disorder. linked with sluggish thyroid The apparent link between glands, suggests a new, prelim­the thyroid gland and inary report. premenstrual syndrome was 
The study found often-mild discovered by Dr. Nora D. thyroid deficiencies in 94 per­Brayshaw of the Biopsychiatry cent of the victims of Center in Watchung, N.J. the premenstrual syndrome who results of her preliminary ex­were tested. Those who took periments were published as a thyroid pills "reported com­letter in Thursday's New En­plete relief from the symptoms gland Journal of Medicine. of PMS." 
However, several experts In an interview, she said she has found more than 300 women "where the correlation is ab­solutely profound" between premenstrual syndrome and underactive thyroids, and said she has used thyroid pills routinely to treat them. 
"I am so sure I know it works that when it doesn't, I've been able to find a problem," such as drinking or drugs, that in­terferes with the thyroid supplements, Brayshaw said. 
Brayshaw said low thyroid function may not actually cause PMS. Instead, the two problems could be the result of some broader underlying hor­monal disorder. But she said she believes virtually everyone with premenstrual syndrome has thvroid deficiencies. 



"ie~~_O_i_n_t___________
Th-ursda-y,Dec-embe-r4,19-86-pa-ge8 
Buying personal clock cannot solve bell dilemma 
Don't panic! This crank epistle is about an entirely new subject. The new subject does not pose real heavy ethi­cal, moral, or legal questions; so all the titled sages in the dome need not dive for their foxholes. The new subject is bells. Just bells. Hang in, while a nar­rative historian narrates a tale. 
Bob Kerby 
guest column 
In early September, having noticed that the class bells were not ringing, I started calling this office and that to ask that the bells be turned on. I phone every September because the bells never work when the University first convenes. In years past, the various people I called-clerks, secretaries, ad­ministrative assistants, and one asso­ciate dean -often explained that admi­nistrators don't like the bells; so they forgot to turn them on. I then reminded them that teaching is, after all, one of the minor peripheral functions of this institution, whether administrators liked it or not. Usually, those whom I surprised with this revelation got the bells turned on, bye and bye. 
This September, my fifth telephone call turned up a secretary who told me that "someone" in the dome had decided not to turn on the bells this year. That was a new excuse. So I called the dome. I talked to the assistant registrar in charge of all the Univer­sity's bells. He was most congenial and most eager to oblige. He assured me that he would fix everything. I mar­velled at the efficiency with which a single bushleague teacher's petition through channels galvanized the dome to decisive action. I put my trust in the 
dome. A couple of weeks passed. Then I began hearing bells. I heard them at 
6:55 am, 7:45 am, 8:00 am (I get to work early!), and etcetera. I heard them until9:15 am. Then, at 9:15, they quit. No more bells. That seemed odd. 
So again I called the assistant registrar about the bells. He promised to check it, right away. He checked it. About two weeks later, we had bells from 8:00am to 2:15pm. They quit at 
2: 
15. After 3 pm, true, all the bells went berserk, ringing damn near every min­ute on the half-minute; but at least until 

2: 
15 they worked like they were sup­posed to work, starting and ending classes on schedule. That was progress, if not yet perfect. 


So again I called the assistant registrar about the bells. So did lots of other folks. Some complained about missing bells. Some complained about berserk bells. The assistant registrar said he'd fix it. He even prepared to summon first-class professional bell­fixers from the professional bell-fixers' guild. 
Then -the Monday before fall break somebody told the assistant registrar that, last spring, the clique that makes decisions hereabouts had decided never to ring the class bells again. Needless to say, this high-powered policy deci­sion had not been published, or an­nounced, or explained. And, needless 
to say, this high-powered decision was made by clowns who don't teach. 
Nobody had told the faculty about this decision. Nobody had even told the as­sistant registrar. Granting that the dome seems unable to tell anybody else what is going on, one must now wonder about the quality of coordination within the dome itself. Should not somebody have told the assistant registrar that all his bells were to be turned off last spring? 
I proposed an instant solution: why not put clocks in classrooms? The Great Republic has been mass­producing wall clocks since 1814, so the technology should be adequate by now. At first, the proposal met some obsta­cles. First, the assistant registrar told me that classrooms already had clocks. That surprised me because no matter how hard I looked, I could not find any clocks in the classrooms I was teaching in. Second, the assistant registrar of­fered to buck my inquiries to a coord­inator in charge of clocks. Can the co­ordinator really make policy decisions, queried I? No, said the assistant registrar, but she can listen real well. I didn't really want somebody to listen real well. I wanted somebody who could start and stop classes on time. So I told the assistant registrar, who had promised to fix everything 'way back in September' to get a clock into my classroom. Like now! 
A couple more weeks passed. Still, no clock. So, one day, I went to G. L. Perry's five-and-dime and purchased an Ingraham battery-driven quartz wall clock, plus all the fixings, for $13.31. The batteries would need chang­ing, now and then, but I figured that would give an unemployed assistant registrar in charge of bells something to do. I sent the bill to the dome. 
Just as I was about to mount my clock, a Seth Thomas plug-in clock ap­peared in my classroom. The first time I saw it, it was running about 25 minutes slower than the rest of the cosmos. Next time, it was only 6:22 minutes late. The third time, I climbed on a chair to reset it, despite my age, decrepitude, and general blubbery infirmity. At least I got the time right. 
Debates exemplify the spirit of education 
Dear Editor: 
Just as students often moan about their teachers, it is commonplace to hear faculty mumbling and grumbling about the lack of interest Notre Dame students supposedly show concerning current events, intellectual matters and, in general, anything other than romance, sports and grades. In this context, I find the news of a series of serious, substaantial debates being or­ganized and conducted by Grace Hall students, under the direction of Assis­tant Rector Joseph McKenna, worth noticing and comment!Jlg upon. 
I want first of all, to heartily congrat­ulate these students and McKenna for their work. I am pleased, very pleased, to know that these students of Grace Hall, outside of their classes, are taking the time to debate and learn about top­ics such as the role of women in the Church, gun control, immigrant legis­lation and public school sex education. McKenna and the students involved are, in my opinion, setting a very fine example for members of other dorms; I hope to see the idea of organization of and participation in such debates spread across campus until the day that all of our students are involved in debat­ing the issues of the moment, as well as more perennial issues. 
The example set by Grace provides a fine model of self-education (students educating other students, students educating each other in a setting that does not require faculty lecturing and students memorizing) that may, in the end, be just as important for intellec­tual moral development as any of the classes that we teach here. 
AZven Neiman Assistant Dean College of Arts and Letters 
Women's peace group remember Parks' ride 
Dear Editor: 
"We are gathering together to ed­ucate ourselves and others in order to grow in the power of our common sis­terhood, to lead us to an understanding of our responsibilities in the world today, and to the action we must take accordingly." This was the beginning of an invitation proposed last year at this time in this same column, an in­vitaion to join a group of students con­cerned with social justice: Women United for Justice and Peace. We began our efforts with a celebration of Rosa Parks Day. Since then we have engaged in many activities and our numbers have grown. 
We wish to join together in honor of Rosa Parks to celebrate our anniver­sary. On Dec. 3, 1955, this courageous woman defied an unjust law by refusing 
Doonesbury 
MR. SLACKME:YER, I'LL Tf(J 708E 8R/13F. 1:+1 Jli5T A JUNIOR I.A/QYER IA/"H
7Ht S.E£., ANPI flfAUZE Wil'~ 60TMOl?£1/HPOKT­. ANT 'THINGS 7000 THAN TA/..KIVITH ME. 
The fourth time, I went to my class­room and somebody had kidnapped my Seth Thomas's clock. Darned if I know who is holding the Seth hostage. All I know is that since Seth's disap­pearance, I have been teaching my classes both bellless and clockless. All the while, more and more students show up late. All the while, more and more classes run over time. All the while, the official rule mandating a fifteen-minute break between classes erodes. All the while, my own classes start crumbling through their penul­timate moments, while fidgity students -not all of whom can be expected to be enraptured by my electrifying lectures wonder what time it is. All the while, the teaching function of this University suffers. 
On Nov. 21 I received a note from the dome telling me that deans-who don't teach -and "building deputies" ­whoever the hell they are-had decided, "last year," to "eliminate the last of the classroom bells." I treasure the note: it's the first note I've received from the dome in two and a half years. But I wish it explained why deans and 
building deputies -whoever they are ­have to wreck my classes. 
Being an old Air Force veteran, I hack my watch regularly. I expect the world to start and stop on time. Why won't deans and building deputies ­whoever they are -appreciate my fond­ness for punctuality? I appreciate that it's only been 200 years since the West­ern civilization accommodated to clocking time, but should not univer­sities be at the cutting edge of innovation? 
Bob Kerby is an associate professor of history. 

P.O. BoxQ 
to give up her seat on a city bus to a white passenger. This act sparked riots, strikes and a court battle which resulted in the desegregation of Montgomery busses. We wish to honor the "Mother of the Modern Civil Rights Movement." We look to her courage and spirit to inspire us in our continued struggle for social justice. We join with Rosa Parks in affirming that one small act can produce great change in our nation and our world. Please join us Friday, Dec. 5, 12-1:30 at the Fieldhouse Mall as we pause to celebrate Rosa Parks' effort and our efforts of the past and to prepare our­selves to continue to strive to fulfill our obligation as peacemakers. 
Mary Abowd Colleen Cotter Margy Pfiel Kristin Komyatte Amy Zajakowski Women United for Justice and Peace 
Garry Trudeau 
Quote of the day 
" 'God bless us every one!' said Tiny Tim, the last of all." 
Charles Dickens (1812-1870) A Christmas Carol 

PERSONALLY, 
I 7HINI<"'5 
8/.ESS
ALL. A 8/G 
YOU.

CO/NCITJENC£. 
I \ 
·~~­

Social awareness gained 
Thanksgiving because of Notre Dame's Thanksgiving food drive incredibly caring response to this proj­ect. Thank you all for making it possi­
fed many needy families ble. 
Dear Editor: Mark Drajem
The members of the World Hunger President, World Hunger Coalition Coalition would like to extend their thanks to everyone who made Thanks­Description of season giving Collection a success. Without the cooperation of the rectors and given at luncheon liturgical commissioners the collection 
Dear Editor:
would not have been taken up in the Friday, before the game, at a benefitdorms, so we'd like to thank them for luncheon in Los Angeles I was gracedtheir invaluable assistance. We also with the presence of our dearly beloved thank the wonderful staff of University Louis Holtz.
Ministry for their support and for I asked him to take a look back anddonating $200 from Sacred Heart's Sun­into the future and give one word today collection towards our cause. 
describe his first season.
Most of all, we thank the very "There isn't a single word to generous student body who donated describe. I don't think I could in a single more than $700. With this money we word. No word really comes up unless were abl~eto buy 22 baskets of food for it would be frustrating, and I don't think needy fa ilies in South Bend. 
frustrating would be a proper word. IfThese askets included bread, milk, I thought for a minute, I think a singleoranges, potatoes, yams, cranberry word would be 'foundation.' " sauce, s ffing, pumpkin pie and a "And what would the word be for next turkey for every family. The rest of the season?" 
money went to St. Augustine's Soup There was a long pause, and he fi­Kitchen and to Hope Rescue Mission, nally answered, "rebound" with a def­two local organizations that feed the inite mischievous grin. 
hungry and homeless. 
Jennifer O'Donald
Many people were able to celebrate 
Farley Hall 

Preemption of final kick shows network's priority 
It was the perfect commercial, an ad­"I guess we won1ost." vertiser's dream. It had everything-­Trying to placate the viewers with a an oh, so seductive product, sleek, quick replay of the kick was a cop-out. shiny and powerful that implies wealth, Viewers would much rather have status, and impeccable taste. Imagine watched a replay of the celebration or, its benefits: women, wealth, prestige, even better, no replay at all. and freedom from the nagging doubt Rubbing salt in the wound, CBS didn't that you can't perform. even acknowledge its mistake. Some­
where, there has to be a button or 
Maggie Sieger switch that vaporizes a commercial and returns to the program. Why didn't they use it? 
guest column 
I have to ask, what was the MAIN The time-slot had been researched show Saturday afternoon? According to beyond anyone's wildest imagination: CBS, it was the peddling of a Porsche. whom to aim it at, when they watched, CBS' job was to provide entertain­when they took a bathroom break, what ment and no matter what crazed attracted them, and their mothers' ''aficionados'' say, football is just that. maiden names. The tension that comes with any close 
CBS, with a little help, even provided game is a form of entertainment. The a captive audience. Nary a soul, glued death-grip on a beer can, the knots in to the tube and teetering on the edge of your stomach, the percentages, possi­their seats, left during the time-out. ble miracles, and performances-to­
Who could ask for anything more? date that run through your mind are all Thousands of viewers had turned on part of the game, as is the wild celebra­and tuned in to CBS in order to see 
tion afterwards. Notre Dame battle University of South­CBS failed to do its job. Miserably. 
ern California. In choosing to be peddlers before pro­When it came down to those final two ducers CBS disapponted its viewers, seconds, prayers were recited, close and may even have lost a few. Hope­
losses relived, the "phantom touch­fully, there are some fans who are so down" recalled. thoroughly disgusted with the choice of 
Viewers all around the country held "money above all" that they have their breath and waited for The Kick. vowed never to watch CBS again. As expected during any break in the Perhaps that's an unrealistic deci­action, CBS broke for a commercial. sion and one that will soon be forgotten, What wasn't expected was that a but the short-sighted decision that Porsche would preempt the final effort prompted it will be remembered. For of John Carney and the Fighting Irish. a long time I'll be saying, "Porsche, 
Confusion and then disbelief set in as there most definitely IS a substitute!" 
I read the announcement that I was watching the celebration AFTER the Maggie Sieger is a sophomore Ameri­kick. Viewers were left with a vague, can Studies major. 
through Peace Corps 
It is Nov. 15, 11:30 p.m., and the night in high bush country. 
is warm and muggy. Over 5,000 miles The limitations put upon us, however, 
away, Notre Dame has just lost in the are staggering. As of now, there is no 
final minutes to Penn State, 24 -19. My kerosene in the country, which means 
housemate, Tom, and I have spent the that the refrigerators needed to keep 
last agonizing hour hunched over his the vaccines from spoiling will not run. 
short wave radio listening to the game There is also a severe vehicle shortage. being broadcast over Voice of America. Some counties have only one jeep, in The reception was weak and garbled poor condition, to cover their entire reminding me just how far away I am area. They must travel to villages 
from home. hours up-country on roads that most 
Americans would consider impassable. 
Mark Toner I'm aware that this letter is sounding 
a bit self-righteous or sanctimonious. I 
am not on a one-man crusade to save
guest column the world fro.n the clutches of poverty 
and disease. Those sentiments are all 
Right now, I'm sitting alone in my the heady stuff of idealism, which does living room trying to compose a letter not mix well with the reality of my sit­• that can translate my Peace Corps ex­uation. • perience into words. If this letter seems I do, however, believe in my work confused, it should because it is here. Despite the countless problems, impossible for me to draw one overrid­there is also the immeasurable success ing emotion from the multitude I have of saving a large percentage of these felt since my arrival, that is, a single children from preventable deaths. emotion which can adequately encom­Finally, there is a great deal of self­pass my situation. sacrifice involved in being a volunteer. 
First, some basics: I am a health Peace Corps is neither a carefree ad­volunteer, working and living in the venture nor an exotic vacation; those capital city of Monrovia. It is a bustling, attitudes cannot sustain you through a crowded, dirty Third World city that is two-year period. I have personally left full of outdoor markets, run-down a great deal behind in the states: my shanties, and malaria-infested friends, my family, and a girlfriend swamps. I am fortunate enough to have that I love very much. It is hard but running water (which must be boiled rarely is anything worthwhile easy. before drinking) and electricity for I have learned more about myself in most of the year. I also consider myself the last few months than I could have fortunate to have indoor plumbing, ever thought possible. In a sense, that since public sanitation here is several is exactly what I understand Peace notches below American standards, to Corps to be -a learning experience. I'm say the least. learning to manage in a very different 
If my portrayal of Monrovia seems culture. The Liberians I encounter are overly negative, I apologize. I am at­perhaps learning that not all tempting to present a realistic Mrica, Americans are machine-gun-toting set apart from our Hollywood images Rambos. If in the process of this edu­of lush tropical jungles and wide open cational exchange I am able to improve plains teeming with game. Liberia is, in some small way the quality of life in many ways, a very beautiful country. here, I will consider my two years to It is also, however, extremely under­have been successful. developed. I hope this letter doesn't sound too 
As a health worker, underdeveloped pretentious or morally superior. means that thousands of children die Believe me, I am neither of those each year from immunizable diseases: things. I do, however, feel that if people measles, diptheria, whooping cough, have beliefs, they should be willing to and polio. Over a million infants in actually pursue them. It is easy to for­Africa died last year because of com­get this when one is lost inside the mon diarrhea. The purpose of the or­secluded world of academics. ganization for which I work There are so many opportunities for (Combating Childhood Communicable Notre Dame students to become more Diseases) is to try to make life a little socially aware. The esc offers a vari­bit happier for the children in this ety of programs needing volunteers. country by immunizing children and Please realize the value of setting the giving health training to mothers. books aside and becoming involved. Re­
CCCD has been working for months member, the human spirit can become with up-country clinics, trying to coor­dry and brittle from too much studying. dinate the logistics for a nationwide It helps to immerse it from time to time vaccination campaign. We have also in the warm waters of humanity. been closely involved with radio sta­tions promoting the campaign to Mark Toner is a Peace Corps volunteer families in the remote villages located and a 1986 graduate of Notre Dame. 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a difference. 
Write to P .O.Box Q Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 46556 
General Board
Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac ...nd Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten Syste.ns Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Contro//er........................................Aiex VonderHaar 
Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt
their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying onlnlons on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 





Legendarypoet and president 
DR. DAVID R. CLARK Sister Madeleva (1887-1964) of the modern movement, Sister Crowns" she contrasts the cut­Where I will heal me of my English Department Chairman, was two years younger than Ezra Madeleva was equally out of step ting of a nun's hair. grievous wound. ' Saint Mary's College Pound the most typical (and un­with the great Victorians. She No even to plait a belt for 
A down-to-earth yet heaven­typlcal) modern poet, from was a religious poet, raising Oalahad Sister Madeleva's tradition is grounded strength, joy, and love whose "constitution iconoclasm" sceptical brows at Browning and Should I have shorn the locks that of the religious poets. These seem the marks of Sister she firmly disassociated herself Tennyson as well as at Pound. that men thought fair; are of two kinds: "The poets of Madeleva's personality, and her In the early 1920's. Although she There were poets ("Whose Inspi­But for my Lover Lord, divinely doctrine," such as John Keble, ration was poetry") and religious glad John Henry Newman, Father Collected Poems Books poets ("whose isplration was re­I doffthe shining crown that was Faber, Aubrey DeVere, and "the ligion --the binding back of man my hair. poets of personal experience"The Four Last Things: to God"). Browning and Ten­Sister Madeleva distinguishes such as Coventry Patmore, Chris­nyson were poets. Browning's re­the poet of religious sentiment tiana Rossetti, Gerard Hopkins,
Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C. ligious poetry shows him "not a from the religious poet in the fol­Lionel Johnson, Francis soul satisfied by union" but "an lowing brilliant juxtaposition of Thompson, and Alice Meynell. personality fllled her every act. assimilated free verse as well as ethical teacher." Tennyson Tennyson's "The Passing of Ar­Most of Sister Madeleva's poems As a strong and down-to-earth traditional forms, she did not fol­"glories In religious sentiment" thur" and Hopkins' "Heaven are in the personal experience medievalist In Chaucer's Nuns low the modern movement. On but is not a religious poet.' She Haven" tradition. Sometimes her she ticked off the male scholars, the other hand she feared that Is as flrm with Tennyson as with I am going a long way rhythms echo the subtle syntax mockers of Chaucer's Prioress's the facile Edna St. VIncent Millay Pound. For Tennyson "God made To the island-valley ofAvillon.· and rhythm of the best of this dainty table manners: "None of (whom she admired and from excellent stage property." On Where falls no hall, or rain. or group as in these lines from an them ever wore a religious habit whom--as well as from Mrs. Galahad's rig she comments any snow, elegy "To a Young Girl": Already or had the least Idea of what real 
in this first immortal hour 
Your young years, which like pe­

distress a Sister feels at getting 
.,.History behind/th.e book 
tals did upcurl

a spot on her habit, especially at 
table. Her habit Is holy to her.... " 
In promise exquisite, unfold, un­

Eighteen years after its first thor ofmore than a dozen books the Catholic Book Club for long­
As a college president, asked 
furl

printing, a new edition of "The of poetry and critical prose time and eminent service in thewhether O'Laughlin stage would 
To perfect, heaven-blown. and

four Last Things", collected during her lifetime, she lectured field of Catholic letters. Her au­
hold up under a concert of four 
forever fadeless flower.

poems of Sister M. Madeleva 
to students, faculty members tobiography; ''My first Seventy 
Francis Thompson? Gerard Hop­

pianos, she calculated withjoyful 
Wolff, C.S.C., with a new and academic and literary Years", was published In 1959. 
kins? Sister Madeleva. 

exactitude: "The stage will sup­
foreword by Sister Eva Mary assemblies throughout North Throughout her presidency,port twelve elephants. Why, then 
Hooker, C.S.C., will be released America. Her work in the field of Sister Madeleva remained com·
could It not support four concert 
by Saint Mary·~. College on ·No­higher education brought her mitted to a qu;:~lity education for 
This review has been an at­

pianos?" 
vember 15. Presidentof the Col­recognition both nationally and women. During her 27 years as 
tempt to "place" Sister Madeleva 

As a poet for half a centruy, 
lege from 19.34 to 196L Sister internationally during her tenure president, the College increased 
as a poet. Perhaps it would have

distilling the "hlsh concentrate" 
Madeleva'sworks were known for as president of Saint Mary's, a the number of Its programs, stu­
been better to cite the many

of her poetry in those rare mo­
their combination of poetic skill four-year, Catholic. women's dents and facilities, and began 
poems with St. Mary's College

ments frugally allotted her in a 
and mystical insights. liberal arts college In Notre to.gain respect as one ofthe na­
focus or significance. As Sister

busy life, she showed herself a 
Originally published in 1958 Dame, Indiana. tion's distinctive Institutions of 
Eva Mary Hooker says in her

loving devotee of the art, but 
by MacMillan and Co., "The four Among herawards are thegold higher learning for women.only as her gift In a hlger devo­
"Preface" these poems are in a

Last Things" was widely reviewed medal ofthe National Poetry Cen· "The Four Last Things is avail· 
special way sent to the "Saint

tion: 
and enthusiastically received. At ter ofthe 1939 New York World's able ln a hardcover edition for Dear Ood, 
Mary's community of students,

the time of Its Initial release, fair and the Siena Medal, In $8.95 and in paperback for 
teachers, parents and friends."

Herewith a book do I inscribe 
"Monitor" praised the collection recognition of ·her distinctive $4.95. The book may be pur­
Surely I should have cited more

and send 
as a work of "pure literature." contributions as a Catholic wo­chased by sending a check or 
of Sister Madeleva's own poems.

To You Who are both its begin­
Sister Madeleva (1867 ·1964), man to Catholic life In America. money order to the Saint Mary's 
Her harness-maker father gave

ning and its end; 
was a leader il1 the Catholic In 1948. In 1959, Sister College Bookstore, Haggar Col­
her a habit of craftsmanship as

A volume odd, 
literary and academic worlds of Madeleva was presented with the lege, Notre Dame, Indiana, 
well as a love of poetry. Whether

Bound in some brief, allotted 
the 1940's and 1950's The au-Fifth Annual Champion Award by 46556. 
she writes of her namesake Mary Written with love and tears; Browning-she learned much acidly "Anyone who has girt on Nor ever wind blows loudly; but of Magdala unsnarling her hair Fragments of which You are the about writing sonnets) might the sword ofthe spirit knows that it lies and soul or of "Penelope" perfect whole merely "rub her golden mind Into the girdle is made of something Deep-meadowed, happy, fair weaving and unraveling the robe Book of my souL a mirror for the reflection of more galling than the silken with orchard lawns ofmemory, her art finds rhythms Break, reak the sealing clod loveliness" rather than "round it braid of a visionary malden's And bowery hollows crowned to catch these symbolic actions And read me, Oodl into a crucible for life." But If not hair." In her own poem "Of with summer sea, and give them her own meaning. 
years, 

Accent 
'Good' makes good 
DOUG ANDERSON features writer 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre Department is cur­rently showing C.P. Taylor's play, "Good", in Washington Hall. This play, which deals with the progression of a university pro­fessor towards a rationalized and tragic end, is well presented by the cast. Professor John Halder 
•
• 
Onstage==d 
Good ~~ 
(Michael Grant), is recounting the past nine years of his life. He is a man who, in the beginning. simply writes a pro-euthanasia novel based on his own experi­ences with his infirmed mother. The Nazi party discovers his work, and gradually in­doctrinates Halder into their sys­tem. Taylor portrays Halder as a "good" person who, through his apathy and unwillingness to con­front the Hitler regime, contri­butes to the terror. 
The cast consists of ten mem­bers plus two musicians, a flutist and a pianist. Some of the cast have dual roles. All performers stay on stage for the whole per­formance, while Halder drifts in and out of certain memories of the past nine years. The cast and crew take the potentially confus­ing events of Halder's random memory and make them very easy for the audience to under­stand. The lighting and actor's positions make It very easy for the viewer to understand Halder's haphazard recollection of his experience. 
Brian Loeffler plays the role of a Nazi Over-Leader to near per­fection, maintaining his role as a dedicated Nazi when he is far from the spotlight. One intrigu­Ing aspect of the play is the re­lationship between Halder and Maurice. Both agree early on that Hitler's rise is temporary and the anti-Semitism will eventually end. Halder becomes a signifi­cant part of the Nazi party while his friend Maurice, a Jewish psy­
chiatrist, becomes more worried for the safety of himself and his family. Although he calls himself a Nazi, Halder is still a close friend of Maurice's. The 
stereotypical relationship be­tween Nazi and Jew is negated by the bond between Halder and Maurice. This relationship en­capsulates Taylor's theme: a large part of the people involved in the Nazi atrocities were not crazed killers or 'Jew-haters' but basically good people who did not have the backbone to con­tradict a few strong per­sonalities. 
In the.final analysis, "Good" is well performed by the Depart­ment of Communication and Theatre. Some people, however, could have difficulties with the language and crude situations. Taylor intended these instances to represent the reality of the Holocaust thro~Jgh various grap­hic scenes. The cast and crew give a fine performance, and will continue to do so Thursday through Saturday at 8: 10, with a 
3: 10 performance on Sunday. Tickets are available for all per­formances. 
Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 10 

------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------­
The Observer 


Sports Briefs 
IH football equiptment is still out, and NVA is offering one last chance to return it today from 4:30 to 5:15 and tomorrow from 3:30 to 4:30 at Gate 9 of the Stadium. Any equipment not returned will be billed to the individual's student account. For more information contact NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
WVFI-AM 64 will air live tonight's Notre Dame-Cornell basketball game from the ACC. Kevin Herbert and Sean Munster have all the play-by-play beginning at 7:20p.m. Also, WVFI will air tomorrow's Notre Dame-Michigan­Dearborn hockey game live beginning at 7:15p.m. with "The Lefty Smith Show" and 7:30p.m. with the face-off. Sean Pieri and Jamey Rappis will have the play-by-play. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC scuba club encourages anyone interested in scuba diving to attend an activities night Sunday, Dec. 7 at 7:30p.m. at the Rockne pool. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team wants all team members with turtlenecks to call Lisa at 284-4415 before tomorrow. All money should be turned in by tomorrow to Lisa, Jeff (3660), Joe (1190), or Cathy (4029). -The Observer 
The Air Force ROTC detatchment at Notre Dame is hosting the First Anual Flyin' Irish Christmas Classic bas­ketball tournament Dec. 6 and 7. The games will be played at Stepan Center and feature teams from ROTC units throughout Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and Illinois. -The Ob­server 
SMC basketball adds to win streak by topping Judson in home opener 
Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 11 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's used a team ef­fort Tuesday night in the home opener against Judson College, to pull off its third straight vic­tory. 
"In my three years of coach­ing at Saint Mary's, the team has not had any kind of win streak," said Coach Marvin Wood. 
Several tie scores throughout most of the first half gave the impression of a close game. But the Belles got on track after a field goal broke the 17-17 tie. A burst of five unanswered baskets put Saint Mary's ahead by a ten point spread for the rest of the half. When the two teams headed for the locker room, the Belles were on top by a score of 37-27. 
The second half brought a larger gap between the two teams. Saint Mary's led by as much as 18 points in the begin­ning of the half. They main­tained a 15-18 point margin for all but the last three minutes of the half. It was not until that point that Judson came within eleven points. But that was as close as the Belles allowed them as the final seconds ticked off the clock. 
"Key contributions by the front line helped our game," said Wood. "Both returnees and freshman are working well on the court. I used all those who suited for the game.". 
Particular standouts on the offense were Julie Radke, Tammye Radke, Kris Pan­telleria, and Stephanie Duke. Each of these players reached double figures with Duke leading with 15 points. Tammye Radke contributed 11 assists along with 14 points while sister Julie and Pan­telleria added 10 and 12 points respectively. 
Defensively Duke and Anne Gallagher controlled the boards with eight and seven rebounds. 
"The team has set a goal of 15 turnovers a game, and with only one over this game, I think that is good," stated Wood. "This was also our first game in six days with only one prac­tice in between. 
Wood said he was also pleased with periods of good play which included crisp pass­ing and accurate shooting. 
With the hopes of total team contribution continuing, the Belles travel to the Siena Heights Invitational Dec. 5-6 when they will face Nazareth College. 
Pacers win; Tisdale stars 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Wayman Tisdale scored 27 points and six other Pacers scored in double figures as Indiana broke open a close game in the fourth quar­ter to defeat the Washington Bullets 116-103 in NBA action last night. 
Indiana broke an 83-83 tie at the start of the fourth quarter with a 10-2 spurt led by Kyle Macy, who had 12 points of his 18 points in that period. 
The Bullets crept to within four at 101-97 on a free throw by Terry Catledge with 4:07 to play. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of Lafortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfieds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifleds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287·4082 
PRO· TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 277-5833 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS COKER, 233·7009 
WORDPROCESSING 277·8131 
Protess•onal word proceas1ng serv1ces of term papers, resumes, ma•l•ngs. etc. Center Serv1cea Company, conveniently locallid 1n down! own Soulh Bend. Monday-Fnday. 8 a.m. ~5 p.m., 282· 8550 
SELL YOUR TEXT·BOOKS FOR $$$$$ PANDORA'S BOOKS. at our NEW loca· 110n· 808 Howard St )UBI off of N.D Ave. ph 233·2342 OPEN 7 days a week. 10· 530 
Dan still typea papers I Only $ 901Jage. 233·1988 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST· Brown lealher bnefcaae with comblnatlon·lock catches lrom lhe library concourse on 1111 G88. I desperately need I he conlenla of the briefcase If noth· lng else. If found, please return to 301 O'Shag or cell 277~6995. 
FOUND: BASEBALL GLOVE on S.Quad in front ol Alumn1. Call Mary x3781 
LOST: 1987 CLASS RING WITH BLACK STONE AND INITIALS MJT. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 3038 
LOST: A gold chain with an angle with a bell and my name on It (Claudina). II means a lei 10 me. Please contact me altha South Dining Hall at 239-7814. 
FOUND: CLASS RING BEFORE BREAK ON EDDY STREET. CALL MIKE 233· 6024 TO IDENTIFY 
LOSTII Gold rope bracalel w1 white gold strand twisted around II. My sister got it for me In France and she"a not relurnlng lor ewh1lel PLEASE call Kalh 3027 
LOST ADD A BEAD NECK· LACE.. .SOMEWHERE BETWEEN WALSH AND SO. DINING HALL OR IN DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL MAUREEN M AT 2812. THANK YOUI 
HELPII I lost my eye·glasaes on Nov. 26 IUBI belore break. II you found them please cell meal 287·4831. They were 1n a black caae and were an amber men's a lyle 
LOST· Canon Snappy 50 Camera at SMC Fresh. Form Conlenls great sent value $$ 284·4196 $$ 
PLEASE .... PLEASE.. PLEASE TO WHOEVER TOOK MY GREY JANSPORT BACKPACK FROM SOUTH DINING HALL ON MONDAY NIGHT: you can keep the texlbook.tha calculator, and the UCLA T·shirts, but PLEASE return lhe mac. diSk in lhe Irani pocket. it has my entire hie on it. )USI leave it where you found it. PLEASE.... 
FOR RENT 
UNIVERSITY PARK APTS UNIVERSITY PARK APTS Need 1 or 2 roommates lor spr~ng. NO LEASE OBLIGATION Com· plelely furn1shed except for your room! CALL AL or KEVIN at 277-8938 
.................................... 
3 OR 4·BDRM. NEWLY DECORATED. AVAILABLE NOW FOR 2ND SEMES~ TEA. 3·5 STUDENTS. $100 PER STU~ DENT PLUS UTILITIES. MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM. NEAR PORTAGE & ANGELA. 234·6688 
SMALL REFRIGERATOR FOR RENT NEXT SEMESTER. CALL 1443. 
WANTEO: HOUSEMATE FOR TWO 
GRAD STUDENTS. nexl semesler Hop, skip & jump from campus. only $1501 Information? Call 234·3624. 
APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. CALL 1~982·6483 FOR DETAILS. ASK FOR CHAD. 
FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
WANTED 
Waitresses, Waiters needed at Knol· lwood Counlry Club. No experience nee· essary. Knollwood Country Club, t6633 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277·154t. 
DELIVERY HELP WANTED. BRUNO'S PIZZA, 288·3320. 
Two llrey wenches looking lor ride to Chicago Dec 9 lor Cyndi Lauper Concert. Can you help us? Will share expenses. Call4083 
Alders wanted to Iowa City 12-Sio 12'7. Call 1562. 
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED. CALL 259·8822 OR 259· 3187. 
FOR SALE 
FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses, hardwood convertible frames and acces· sarles. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South Michigan St. 233·8176. 
2 And. lrip tlx SB to Orlando Dec. 20·Dec. 29. $550. 288·5535. 
90 watt bass amp lor sale. In excellent condition. Great for key~-boards also. $150 call Tom 1216. 
TICKETS 
I NEED INDIANA & N CAROLINA TIXS.272-6308 
Need GA Tix lor Indiana Game. Will pay big bucks. Call Emil or Jeff at 288·t 044 between Sam and 5pm. 
Need GAs for N. Carolina and Duke. Call Bill,2008 
BYU BYU BYU BYU BYU 
I need BYU student tickets. Prefer two or more logelher, lower arena. Call Amy 277-7562. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
The DOME shirts are com1ng... The DOME shirts are coming... 
RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE RIGHT TO LIFE Righi to Life Mass and Dinner on Sat Dec. sixth. Mass al 5PM with Bishop D'arcy. Dinner at 6:30 with assis~ tan! Attorney General Kmiec. All wei· come to Mass. Tickets tor dinner musl be purchased today. Call 2550, 3712, 284~4096, 239· 7222. 
MARY REYNOLDS: ZUSAMMEN AUF EWIGI MUNICH, HERE WE COME! MJ 
SELL YOUR TEXT~BOOKS FOR $$$$!1! PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca· tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10· 530 
Hey all you darners We're you watching the USC game on TV? Did you see the winning field goal? Neither did the rest of America... Volca your dlaguat: CBS Sports Dept. 51 W. 52nd St. NY, NY 10019 
A million or so leHers should gel their attention... 
LAZY BOY and the SWIVEL ROCKERS THURSOAY, DEC. 4th LEE'S RIBS $1 .00 MICHELOBS 
Going to Tampa lor Chrlotmaa braak? I need rldera to keep me company. II you want a ride, juot call Suoan at 2875. 
Available 2nd semester & tall '87 4Br house furnished, secure 4~5 stu~ dents,$440.oomonth You pay utilities, call Geoff or Mary 288· 7276 
DRIVE NEW CAR TO SEATILE. WA AND DRIVE BACK ANOTHER CAR AFTER CHRISTMAS BREAK. CALL 232·0453. 
HARD ROCK CAFE NO.SMC SWEATSHIRTS NOW AVAILABLEIII GREAT FOR X·MAS GIFTS $16.00 ea. or 2 for $30.00 CALL 277·2766 AFTER 5:00 PM 
BERLIN BERLIN BERLIN Please note 111at the time of the concert has been changed to 9:00pm because of the basketball game B E R L I N BERLIN BERLIN 
I NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE THIS FRI. WILL PAY$. CALL PAM 284~5482. 
HAPPY 21ST B~DAY TERR·BEAR. LOVE, YOUR SECRET ADMIRER 
..................... AHHH.. .WHERE WOULD CATHOLIC BOYS BE WITHOUT CATHOLIC GIRLS? IS THAT YOU S.T.? 
TWO RIDERS GOING EAST ALONG t~ 90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO AGAIN. IF YOU CAN BRING US ALONG PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 4 PM FRIDAY AND MONEY NO PROBLEM. 
RIDER NEEDED TO SHARE EXP. TO DENVER, COLO. LEAVING DEC. 19TH RETURN JAN. 3RD. PHONE 683·7837 
ATIENTION: FRENCH LYONS CHICKS Suey:Now we're all 19··ask me about Lisa's present! Rudy's miserable without you, so please come hornell! Billy was great~·he asked about you. t didn't manage to avoid all the SYR'S··more lalerl Susan:We're keeping an eye on BC for you. We hear the SilverStreaks are having a banner seasonl Room 5 is a psycho ward··agaln II Kelly :We hear the french men are all after your bodl Leonard asks about you, but I haven't Visited Mrs. P. Les and I really haven'! forgotten your b·day, (how many times have you heard that b-4?) HI Kath· leen,Mary,Cara .... Love Ya, Pam and Lisa Ill 
$75 Roundtrip For questions call Mike at 3380 
Margie & Maggie.. 2? Jim & Bill ...... 21 Rematch? Do you think you deserve one? Paybacks are helll 
Merry Christmas to Beth Chaleckil .................... Merry Christmas to Colleen Doyle I 
Merry Christmas to Bill Herzogl 
Merry Christmas to VInce Willis! 
Merry Christmas to Tripp Baltz! 
LOOKING FORWARD TO THE GRACE FORMAL AND PARTYING ON THE WILD SIDE FOR ANOTHER WEEKENDIIII LOVE YA' MELINDA 
To the lady who thinks all men are dirt but wants a speck to call, HERE'S MUD IN YOUR EYE' May be we could mud wrestle some limel 
Clyde, Thank God you don't do every~ thing like a horse. Love, you know who 
Desparately seeking the liberal looking, left handed guy In the Oak Room Tues· day 12-21!6 at 6:00p.m. You wore a black tweed coal and intently read and look notes from well~worn penguin paperback. Who are you. Please call. Jeannine 283· 3440 
TOM-CONGRATULATIONSII YOU ARE NOW ONE STEP CLOSER TO OWNING A BUSINESS LIKE JERSILD AS A HOB· BYI WATCH OUT ATLANTA! I KNEW YOU COULD DO IT. LOVE, DEBBIE 
CONGRATULATIONS TOMII WE ARE SO PROUD OF YOUI LOVE, MAMA D AND DAD 
. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Potter·5 hrs is peanuts! You had better 
practice if you hope to break lhal 8 hr 
record-Fat Shirls 
......................... 

The Dec Club is now open tor members . 
Who will be the 1 sl Teddy Award 
recipient? 
THANKYOU ST. JUDE 

PLEASE GIVE A YOUNG, STRUG· GLING POET A CHANCEIII Call JIM K. at 1007 for a tree reading of his very own erolic love poetry... 
THEOLOGY MAJORS AND MINORS: PLEASE A TIEND THE THEOLOGY DE~ PARTMENT CHRISTMAS PARTY ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5 AT 6:30PM AT MOREAU SEMINARY. 
D.C. CLUB BUS SIGNUPS Wednesday Dec. 10 from 6~7 P.M. Lafortune Lobby 
YELLOW SUBMARINE PRE·FINAL SPECIAL: Buy 2 sandwiches and get 1 tree. Deliverytlllmldnlght, Fri~Sattllltam. 
················································· 
Contrary to popular bella! MICHELE SPRING is not as innocent as she looks I -From her roomies who know 
HELLO K-TOWN: Happy B-day to the man In charge of the black hole. Both boxes have arrived. Ticket has not. Only 17 slinking more days. See ya. Hello, Amanda 
RIGHT TO LIFE MASS-~ RIGHT TO LIFE MASS··ALL members and facutty and friends are welcome to join us In a celebration ol mass at SACRED HEART at 5:00pm on SATURDAY. 
EmiiT We're not as beautiful but can we have a lunch dale with you too? The Farley Hopefuls 
ATIENTION CAPP MAJORS( ) REMEMBER TO SIGN UP FOR ( ) THE CAPP DINNER BY FRIDAY( ) DECEMBER 5th( ) IN the Social Science( 
Dead and Linnear, "Mary had a blow, blow, blowr· Thanks lor a wonderful Turkey-day break. Love, Morse Centerlane 
Dave & Joe, WE CAN'T HELP BUT AD· MIRE YOU TWO, YOU HAVE CHARMED PATII AND MARIA TOOISTUDS WHO LIVE IN SORIN YOU ARE, ENAMOURED BY YOU GODS WE CAN'T BEAR BUT TO ADMIRE YOU FROM AFAR. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARIA CATAN· ZARITIII 
CHRIS: Happy 19th 10 the Valley dude from Arkansas. Blow off those nasty problems for that clueless laacher and have a BIG SHOT. I'm so psyched for the formal. Luv, the immoral date. 
SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP Sign up ASAP for the premiere social event of the semester! Deadline for s1gn ups is Friday, December 12. Call 239· 5225 or come lo Soph. claes ofllce,2nd floor LaFortune,hours:1·5,M·F. 
"SOPHOMORES" CHRISTMAS SHOPPING EX~ TRAVAGANZA IN CHICAGO Sunday,Dec.7,11~9. 10$1or lranepo. Sign up by Frlday,Dec.5,1n Soph.olllce or call 239·5225 
BUFFALO CLUB CHRISTMAS BUSIITO SIGNUP CALL JACKIE 3194,KIM 4329 OR MARK 3408IHURRY MUST CALL BY TUESDAY DEC.9 TO GET SEATill 
HEY MIKE ·I'm reading "GARP" again...thanks for caring. T 
Need ride to PURDUE Friday 12-5 will share expenses call Anna 284~4395 
Driving WEST lor X·mas? I need a ride to L.A.II KATH 272·8919. 
DANCEtDANCEtDANCEf Council lor the retarded hosts a Christmas Dance Friday, Dec.5 from 7:30·10:00p.m. at the Logan Center 
LIZ·DAWG MARTUCCI 
What's this aboul slslers do1ng brothers? Walt a minute, you don't have a sister. Now who was that... 
........................................................
............................... 
T~BEAR KOCH 
Whal's this about sisters doing brothers? ·the Boys 
HI Chrll, &le ya, Katy 
THEO'S ·SENIOR BAR ·BEAUX ARTS 
andnowTHE URGEI 
at CHEER'S 
this THURS·FRI·SAT just North ol N.D. 
on 31 
Batter~es by Bubbles~lnvesl 
NEEDED: One ride to St. Loulo lor Friday tha 19th, PleaH call Mark at x-3333. 
HI to Everyone Rob. 

r--~ 
Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 12
The Observer 

Versatile flanker Tim Brown was recognized runs down the rest of the awards given at last as the Most Valuable Player of this year's foot­night's football banquet in his story beginning ball team by his teammates. Dennis Corrigan on the back page. 


Honors 
continuedfrompage 16 
with a 141.2 rating. This season, Beuerlien completed 151 of 259 passes for 2211 yards and 13 touchdowns, and he holds Notre Dame records for at­tempts (850), completions (473), yards (6,527) total offen­sive attempts (850) and total of­fensive yards (6,459). 
Kovaleski, this season's cap­tain, was named the team's De­fensive Most Valuable Player. Kovaleski led the squad with 88 tackles. 
Banks was named the Out­standing Lineman Award by the Moose Krause Chapter of the National Football Founda­tion and Hall of Fame. This was the first year of this award. Banks made 57 tackles at the defensive end position after switching from linebacker this season. 
Jackson earned the Notre 
DameclubofStJoseph Valley's 
Scholar-Athlete Award. Jack­
son has 3.0 grade point average 
in accounting and caught a 
career-high 31 passes for .592 
yards and two scores this 
season. 
"When we do turn this foot­
ball team around and win the 
National Championship, these 
are the guys who started it,'' 
said Irish mentor Lou Holtz in 
thanking the seniors for their 
efforts. "I've been around 
some great football teams and 
will be around some great 
teams in the future, but I've 
never had more respect for a 
team than this one. This team 
will go down in my mind as 
being the greatest competi­
tors." 
Featured speaker and 
former Notre Dame coach Ara 
Parseghian also complimented 
the team for it's never-say-die 
attitude and gave the team 
what almost amounted to a 
lockerroom pep talk. 
"I was so proud of you at the 
finish," said Parseghian. "I'm 
Red 
continued from page 16 
dock, who had 10 points and 
seven rebounds against the 
Hoosiers, takes on even more 
significance if the Irish are to 
continue their improvement in 
the rebounding department. 
More game time for the Irish 
this week is nothing but good 
news for David Rivers. Rivers 
played all 40 minutes of the In­
diana game and is beginning to 
show his regular form. 
"This our second game in 
five days," says Phelps. "You 
have top be concerned with 
Cornell when they take a team 
like Fresno St. into overtime on 
its own court." 
proud of the way you played final player named so far to your games. (But) if you apply participate in post-season play. just two percent more effort He will compete in the Hula and eliminate the mental er­Bowl. . . The Faculty rors, you'll be playing in a Board in Charge of Athletics major bowl next year." met Tuesday but did not decide the fate {)f several players ap­plying for extra years of Irish Items -Several Irish eligibility because of seasons seniors will play in post-season missed with injuries. Accor­all-star games. Beuerlein, John ding to Associate Sports Infor­Carney, Steve Lawrence, Troy mation Director John Heisler, Wilson and Wally Kleine will because of the large number of play in the Blue-Grey game. players applying, it's a matter Kovaleski will play in the Japan of the board getting all the 
Bowl, while Banks will take reports from the trainers and part in the East-West Shrine doctors. At least 10 players are game. Shawn Heffern is the applying for extra years. 
ATTENTION ALL JUNIORS:
t 
t
Ifyour parents DID NOT receive JPWfinformation over Thanksgiving Break, 
please leave your name, home address,fcampus address and campus phone number l 
at the Student Activities Office by Thurs, fDec. 11 at 4:30p.m. l 
tIf we do not get your name and address, your parents will not receive the proper information. 
' 

Wilson won't appeal; denies shot was cheap 
Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. Chicago Bears linebacker Otis Wilson said yesterday he will not appeal his one-game suspension for Sunday's injury to Pittsburgh Steelers wide receiver Louis Lipps. 
"I just want to get back to football, get ready for the playoffs and get this thing be­hind me," Wilson told a news conference at the club's north suburban headquarters. 
Bears President Michael McCaskey said the penalty, an­nounced Tuesday by NFL com­missioner Pete Rozelle, might have been less severe had the incident not come so close on the heels of Green Bay nose tackle Charles Martin's body slam of Chicago quarterback Jim McMahon a week earlier. 
On Tuesday, Rozelle upheld a two-game suspension of Mar­tin for the violation. 
"If it was just this one inci­dent, it probably would have just been a money fine," McCaskey said. "I think the commissioner wanted to send a clear message and, being that we are the Super Bowl cham­pions, we became the vehicle for sending that clear mes­sage." 
Wilson and McCaskey both said Wilson did not intend to hurt Lipps, who left the game with a concussion. 


THIS COUPON GOOD FOR A BIG CLASSIC HAMBURGER.I REGULAR SIZE ORDER OF FRENCH I I FRIES AND A MEDIUM SIZE (160Z) I 
I SOFT DRINK 
1

I FOR ONLY $2.59 
Not Vahd ~I """.Present Coupon '"' ..~ When.....Orderong,-··-i6J, ·~ 

I 
With Any Other Offer. Bacon, Cheese And 
Tax Extra. OFFER EXPIRES DECEMBER 31,1986 
REDEEM AT 
ANY SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA OR NILES WENDY'S LOCATION 



---~----~-------~----~-­
~----~----~--~-­
Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 13
The Observer 
~ ~--We reserve the
L.::J J right to limit quantities. 
WE DON'T MONKEY AROUND TO GIVE YOU 
ABOUT

THE BEST PRICES IN TOWN ASK 
OUR GIFT SELECTION ITEMS 



1417~~ 

2!0~L
CASE 24 CANS 
WARM ONLY 

10~7~ 3~.!L 
ZONIN 
10~7~ ...,., 4~~~ ~~-~L 2~!L 

1011 ~~::.:) ~ 
1.75 L. --.n­UGHT & DARK 




~~~:~,I 8~.! 
1~~!

PEACH & PEPPERMINT 

8~7~ ~~~! 
SPARKLING WHITE ZINFANDEl

10~7~ 
4~!L

~--­


12~~!. 4~.~ 
ROSE, WHITE, PEACH 


8~! 
._...____= 

4~-~ 
ilijunitei' D'ORO, LAMBRUSCO, ·"-""c -•, BIANCO, RISANTO
8~! 
YOUR CHOICE 
311 
4 PACK 4 FLAVORS WARM OR COLD


13~~! 
ALL FLAVORS 
211 •

SUNFRUIT GIN 
• PEACH MELBA RUM 
• PACK • MANDARIN VODKA "' • SPICE CANADIAN



~~~! ~-~&!! &!.! 
WARM OR COLD 
........ ~--~-------~-~--­
Thursday, December 4, 1986-page 14
The Observer 
Women swimmers count on depth this weekend and... 
Aquatic Center in the ACC. so the squad will be gaining form," he says. it is important to swim all theBy THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer Coach Tim Welsh says there valuable experience in compet­Welsh added that while the events in a championship pro­are two main objectives for this ing in extended meets. visitors may have an edge in gram before exams." Final exams for the Notre weekend. The first is to get ex­The second objective is to the diving events, Notre Dame Notre Dame will be hosting 
has more distance freestyle the teams from Saint Mary's,
Dame women's swim team will perience in a two day meet. turn in a good performance 
begin Friday as the Irish take "We'll swim the two meets before exams, particularly at depth. the University of Illinois at like one two-day meet," says the Irish Invitational. "The race for first in each Chicago, and the University of
on Mankato State and continue as they host the Irish Invita­Welsh. "Teams swim better prepar­event will be good," says Wisconsin at Milwaukee. 
tional Meet on Saturday. Both The championship meet in ing for the last weekend," says Welsh, but he added that he ex­
events will be held at Rolf's the spring is a three day event, Welsh. "We see this as a final pects his team to take the vic­Welsh expects a competitive, exam in swimming, to see what tory at the dual meet. exciting meet. The Irish com­we've achieved and learned so The Irish Invitational is a peted against Ul-C at the Notre far." newly created meet designed to Dame Relays, and the op­
Welsh says his Irish team be a companion to the Notre ponent has improved since 
looks better "on paper" than Dame Relays. then. UI-C is coming off an ex­By KEVIN McCORMACK omore Eric Bodham, who has the Mankato State swimmers. cellent meet against Northern Sports Writer excelled in the backstroke "It looks like we have more "The Invite has more of an Illinois. The UW-Milwaukee 
events. Against Ferris State, overall depth, but you can individual focus than the team won last year's Notre 
No, it's not the last week of he swam a blazing 2:01.77, good never tell how a team will per-Relays," says Welsh. "We feel Dame Relays. the semester yet, but Notre enough for a Ferris St. pool Dame Head Men's Swimming record. He also leads off the 
. . . so will Irish men 
ment," says McCann. weekend will be 118-poundCoach Tim Welsh will be giving 400-yard medley, combined Notre Dame wrestlers are freshman Andy Radenbaugh,

Vegas
out grades to his swimmers this with breastroker Brian Vogel, 
looking forward to the ch<!.l­126-pound senior Gregweekend when the Irish take on butterflyer Mark Jensen, and lenge. Fleming, Durso, Boyd, junior
continuedfrompage 16
Mankato State on Friday and freestyler Chris Petrello. 
"Coach McCann said if we Ron Wisniewski at 150 pounds,then swim in the Irish Invita­Overall, however, Welsh 
country." want to be the best, we got to 158-pound junior Dan Carrigan, tional on Saturday. points out that there are no real 
The tournament will run wrestle the best. It will only im­Geneser at 167 pounds, and"This weekend's meets will superstars on the team and that throughout the night on Friday prove us both mentally and senior Dave Helmer at 190be similar to the importance of the Irish will rely heavily on and for the entire day on Sat­with our technique," says 142-pounds. 
a first semester final exam," depth in all events to succeed 
urday. pound sophomore Pat Boyd. 
says Welsh, "This is the first throughout the season. 
"We didn't get finished the "If we want to go to nationals, After the Las Vegas Invita­time this season we have ad­As far as this weekend goes, first night last year till 1 a.m. we'll see a lot of these guys tional, the Irish will returnjusted our training for a partic­Mankato St. is "sort of an un­We start out on Saturday at 10 later on, and we'll be used to home for a match at the ACCular meet. It will be the sum­known" as Welsh phrases it. 
a.m., and the finals are at 7 the competition." Pit next Wednesday againstmation of all the fall training p.m. It's a demanding tourna-for the Irish the Wisconsin Parkside. 
so I'll be grading each perfor­"From prior results this mance." season, we should win the 
According to Welsh, the Irish meet," he says. "The key will are in pretty good shape and be to establish control early ­should be well-prepared for the in the medley relay and the rough weekend ahead. 1,000 freestyle." 
"The whole team is ahead of The Mankato St. meet is wherewewerelastyear. We've slated for a 6 p.m. start Friday trained more and we're in bet­night. ter shape overall as a pro­The Irish Invitational will be gram." composed of two Saturday ses­
Most recently, the hottest sions, one at 11 a.m., and the Irish swimmer has been soph-other at 3 p.m. 
2
Stadenf Govf.N .&ill:; 1101 Anottu1 D.ist~shed Lecture Series -presenfs_, 

AamUil\!EusQtJEz.Ja. 
0PPeATtJNITIES 
b SMAulvsoo:ss 7prnTiurs Dec.4 f-ia;es-~a11AJ. 

co -sponstteci by Cnh-epreneur Otili 
BUOWEISERe•KING OF BEERSS•ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC.•ST. LOUIS 


YEAR-END 
SALE


s!!!~DSs~af" 
Must liquidate $5000 this weeki 
• 
Compact Disks @ $12 99 

• 
LP's & Cassettes @ $6 25 $9 99

• 
Used CO's @ 

• 
Limited Blank Tape @ $20/1 0 


~~--~~--~~~--­


']I['~~4tll~------------------------------------------------------T•h•u-rs·d-ay•,•D•e•ce•m•b•e•r-4,•1-98•6··-p.ag~e•l-5
Bloom County 
WOW•. JUST LOOI<... 
,, P£tYJ()N l?f(OrJt.£1< IN nl£ .5£W€f< " fJY ·'f?€11TH TON6/J£ :' 
I 
Beer Nuts ; 
£'1(()~£ HE 11A'11, BVT t..IHY 
IXJNT YOU Sf/V[ IJ5 B(JT/1 TH£ 
TROUBLE 13Y GIVING 11£ TWO SUe!<; OF !lEAf NOIJ tNrr£'Af) 
OF MAI{fl/6 N£ COME 8ACK 7
' .
I!. T ~l.i' ~.. ~ 
d 
Campus 
4:00p.m.: SMC Publications Party, Paula McLane, SMC, will speak on Sister Madeleva's book "The Four Last Things," Stapleton Lounge, free and open to public 
4:00-5:00p.m.: 2nd Interview Workshop, "Office VisitS'Plant Trips", speaker: Kitty Arnold, sponsored by Career and Place­ment Services, Library Lounge, Memorial Library 
Dinner: Write-a-thon pledges, by Amnesty International, Dining Hall 
7:00p.m. Madrigal Dinner, $12.50 per per­son, for tickets, call284-4625, Regina North Lounge 
7:00p.m.: Meeting, Overseas Development Network, Center for Social Concerns 
7:00 p.m.: Dept. of Art, Art History and Design Lecture, "Business Considerations for the Designer," by Prof. Charles Nivens, Eastern Illinois Univ., 200 Riley Hall 
Berke Breathed 
I /J€r 8111?/?Y 1111/NIUJWF£1-f t!K€ 1HIS 
AfrF;RH£ I~R£ST?NV f?£C(Jf{fl£P C0/11Pf/R!GON. WOW. 
wow. wow. 
\ ''/Yif/NI?Y:' 
I
/ 
l 
Mark Williams 
AND IJJUU 
r. 11•v; 
SoME ~f~5 roo? ' 
7:30 p.m.: Basketball NDM vs. Cornell, ACC 
7:30p.m.: Friends of the Library Faculty Forum Lecture, "Africa in Turmoil: A Search for Understanding," by Prof. Peter Walshe, ND, Faculty Lounge, Memorial Li­brary 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Spaghetti w/ Meatballs Veal Parmesan Grilled Pastrami & Swiss on Rye Stuffed Peppers 
Saint Mary's Beef Patty on Bun Cheese Ravioli w/ Marinara Sauce Broccoli & Cheese Potato Deli Bar 

, 
Moby's parents 
The Daily Crossword 

,___ ,......... ---~.....,--*------1
*_*~·-:-·:--:-·..,......,.·....,.....,·:--:-·~·~·"T"'I::·....,.....,·~~--......................... ........... 
***** Wish your friends **** 
ie a Happy Birthday t ~ through Observer advertising ~ ~ Call 239-5303 l I*** for details. *** ** ** 
**•••••••••••••••** 



BERLIN 
ACROSS 1 Rudiments 5 Sharp created 
ridge 10 Air: pref. 14 Fuel residue 15 Car 16-off 
(started) 17 Periods for wooers 19 Commune in 
Sicily 20 Majestic 21 Planet 23 Actress Haaao 24 Rumanian city 25 Think 
logically 28 Bears witness 31 Concemlng 32 Bench 35 Hiatus 36 Cat's-paw 38-masque 39 Theatrical 
offering 41 Biblical 
verb ending 42 Kind of energy 45 Augury 46 Uncharged 
particle 48 Oxford wearers at times 50 Extravagant speech 51 At-(with 
great speed) 53 Skimpy 55 Obey 59 Baking place 60 Tennis great 62 Eaatem bigwig 63 "-and Sing" 64 Not on time 65 Hammer part 66 Dead duck 67-out 
(makes do) 
DOWN 1 Spore aaca 2 Develop 
rapidly 3 Sudden IUC­ceaaful stroke 
"'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
4 Emphasizes 5 Appoints 6 Actress Ada 7 Magistrate in 
ancient Rome 8 Bojanglea' dance 

9 In succession 10 Anny command 11 Spectator 
aport at 

Forest Hills 12 Bill of fare 13 Harem rooms 18 Small group 22 Appraised 25 Age 26 Growing out 27 Tennis great 28 Husband of 40 Actress Hudson 53 Detergent 
Gudrun 43 Carryall 54 Leaf 29 Circus man 44 Bunch 56 Bismarck's 30 Measures 47 Plaid cloth state: abbr. 33 Very dark 49 lt. wine 57 Head: Fr. 34 Hat with a center 58 Items In a 
pompom 51 Part of EAP wallet 37 Tall tales 52 Ger. poet 61 -Jlma 

.·:::~ 
•

*SAB Presents: 
*The Verdict *White Nights
Opening Band: Rainmaker 
at Knights of Columbus at EG Auditorium
December 4, Thursday 9pm 
7,9:15, 11:30 Fri. and Sat. Dec. 5,6 $1.50 7,9:30,12
Stepan Center 
Dec. 4-Tonite! $1.50 
Please note new time: 9pm 

Absolutely no food or drink allowed. .....
Tickets available at the dqqr • $5.00 
.,v

• • • a Thursday, December 4, 1986 -page 16






Seorts 
Irish looking for season's first win; Royal is sidelined for three weeks 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 8 points in the Sun Met tourney Paul (11 vs. Fresno SO. Sports Editor and handed out 11 assists in the "We were very disciplined two games. against Fresno, and I felt we 
When the Notre Dame bas­Cornell's middle man is 6-8 should have come away with at ketball team takes to the floor junior Greg Gilda who had 20 least one win," says Dements tonight to seek its first win of points and 13 rebounds against of his club. "We showed some the season after a close loss to Pan American after foul trou­signs of being able to come Indiana, it will be seeing red, ble limited him to eight points back (from a 19-point deficit 
i the Big Red of Cornell that is. against Pan American), but we 
I And after losses to two Top-20 
just ran out of steam. 
I teams, 0-2 Cornell may be just "I'm concerned that we'll 
I 
what the Irish need. only have one day to get ready 
I 
I 
The Big Red's two losses for Notre Dame, but they will t f came at the Sun Met classic in only have one day to get ready Fresno, Calif. The Big Red for us after playing Indiana. threw a scare into host Fresno We'll try to key on David ~ State, losing in double over­Rivers, which few teams have ~ time, 62-56. But in the consola­done successfully." r tion game, Pan American han­Digger Phelps and is squad dled the Big Red with ease, received some bad news yes­handing first-year coach Mike terday when they learned the Dement's squad an 89-75 loss. Donald Royal, the team's Cornell's leader is 6-1 senior leading scorer with a 15.5 guard Stan Bajusz. Bajusz had average on the young season,
Donald Royal 
17 against Fresno St. and 23 will be out three weeks with the versus Pan American. Last and four rebounds against calf tear he sustained Tuesday season, Bajusz made the All­Fresno St. Gilda gets help up night against Indiana. At first Ivy team and was and front from 6-7 junior Mike Mil­Royal's injury was diagnosed honorable mention all­lane and 6-6 Wolfgang Florin. as a day-to-day thing. American while averaging 18.4 Key reserves for the Big Red With Royal absent, the emer­points a contest. Sophomore include 6-1 guard Sam Jacobs gence of freshman Scott Pad-Josh Wexler is Bajusz' back­(13 points against Pan Ameri­court mate. The 6-1 Wexler had can) and 6-5 forward James see RED, page 12 
ND wrestling team goes westward for rugged Las Vegas Invitational 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN season ranked third in the na­Sports Editor tion in all-purpose yards perBy STEVE MEGARGEE field that includes 35 to 40 In last year's Las Vegas In­game with 176.1 a contestSports Writer schools will be Iowa State, vitational, 126-pound Jerry It was a time for looking which also established a
Oklahoma State, and Okla­Durso's fourth-place finish and Taking its chances against homa -three of the top four 167-pound Chris Geneser's 
back and looking forward at school record. The 6-0 junior last night's 67th annual Notre is a conscensus first-team All­most of the top wrestling teams in the nation -and West eighth-place finish led the Irish Dame football banquet. Tim American and his perfor­schools in the country, the Coast powerhouse Arizona to 13th place overall. The team Brown, Steve Beuerlein, Mike mance this season has made
Notre Dame wrestling team State. Notre Dame is compet­is hoping to reach the top 10 goes west this weekend for the ing in this tournament only two this year. 
Kovaleski, Robert Banks and him one of the leading candi­Milt Jackson received awards dates in next year's Heisman Las Vegas Invitational on weeks after participating in the "Last year, coming in as and 59 players received trophy race.
Friday and Saturday. St. Louis Open, which featured freshmen, we didn't know what monograms for their play this Beuerlein, a four-year
"All the top teams west of the Oklahoma and Wisconsin. to expect, and I think we've got­Mississippi except for the Uni­"This is much more difficult ten a lot better since then," 
season. starter, was voted the team's versity of Iowa will be there," (than the St. Louis Open). says Durso, this year's team 
Brown received the team's Most Valuable Offensive Most Valuable Player Award Player, finishing 13th in thesays Head Coach Fran There will be more teams and captain. "It's important to do 
McCann. "As far as tourna­better teams," says McCann. well to know where we stand 
from the National Monogram nation in passing efficiency ment competition, this is the "About seven of the top 10 with the best teams in the 
Club as voted by his team­mates. Brown finished the 
see HONORS, page 12

toughest before the NCAA's." schools will be in this tourna­
see VEGAS, page 14 
Highlighting the tournament ment." 

A realistic glance at the Bears: St. Louis style 
In this newspaper's quest to provide sports coverage that is of interest to the Notre Dame stu­dents, I now present my first-annual look at the playoff-bound Chicago Bears. 
First of all, I believe that, since I am not from Chicago (and I don't pretend to be every Sunday), and because I am from St. Louis (and I love to see Chicago sports teams lose), I can give a somewhat­unbiased look at this team that is dear to so many on this campus. 
Actually, I can honestly claim to be an intelligent Bears observer. My mother is from Chicago, and every time for the past hundred-or-so years the Bears were on television, my family would watch the game. I followed Neill Armstrong's teams, led by quarterbacks Bob Avellini (1975-78), Mike Phipps (1980), and Vince Evans (1981-82). 
And I have watched the Bears closely in the Ditka era, first of all because they have been consistent winners, and secondly because they have not beaten the St. Louis Cardinals in seven tries. 
On the subject Ditka, the man is an excellent coach, no doubt about that. But his public image is not exactly clean-cut, thanks to the press (although the press is not entirely to blame). Ditka has a habit of criticizing the media for problems he and his team have. So when he happens to be caught in, say, a DWI case, the press is not about to take it easy on the man. That's too bad, because it really doesn't benefit anyone. 
Besides that, Ditka has to put up with all the ballyhoo about his quarterbacks. 
The Chicago Tribune ran a story in which the lead paragraph said "There is life after McMahon." 

Pete Gegen 
Assistant Sports Editor 
O.K. McMahon is a main ingredient in the lifeblood of the Bears offense. But Ditka is the one who deserves the credit -the Bears have proved that they can survive with Mike Tomczak at the helm (5-0 this season). And the defense has survived the heart-breaking loss of its dear friend, Buddy Ryan (and to think the Cardinals were looking at him as their head coach). 
While on the subject of quarterbacks, I was shocked when Doug Flutie was singed by the Bears. Heck, the Cardinals don't even have one decent quarterback, and the Bears have three (sorry, Steve Fuller) . 
I also cannot imagine how so little can be heard from a player like Walter Payton. Every weekend its "McMahon this" or "Ditka that." Before Ditka, Payton was THE player for the Bears. Memories of Carly Simon's "Nobody Does It Better" still flash through my head when I see him run. But, given the current team-press relations, its probably bet­ter that the NFL's all-time leading rusher stays out of the headlines. And Ditka, do us all a favor and let Walter score a touchdown in this year's Super Bowl. 
Super Bowl? How can they make the Super Bowl without McMahon? Chicagoans are continually as­king this question, but to us unbiased observers, it is obvious that the Bears can breeze through the National Football Conference playoffs. Who's going to challenge them, the Redskins? After watching them struggle against the Cardinals, I don't think so. 
All the Bears need to do between here and Pasadena is work on their public image. The press jumped all over Otis Wilson for his forearm to the head of Louis Lipps last week, comparing it even to Charles Martin's job on McMahon. And Willie Gault gets a beautiful spread in Sports Illustrated featuring his skill in track and ballet, but on the subject of the Bears the magazine features only his complaints against the quarterbacks, especially McMahon. 
No matter what the press thinks of the Bears, and vice-versa, you can't take away the fact that they are winners. But for their public image, I think they will need something a little more effective this time than "The Super Bowl Shuffle II." 
..._____________________________________ 
-





