
-----~----~--------·-------------~-~~----~ -----­
IRISH EXTRA -INSIDE 

VOL. XXI, NO. 42 FRIDAY-SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31-NOVEMBER 1,1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Nicaraguan vice president to speak here 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
Accepting an invitation from a campus group, the vice pres­ident of Nicaragua has agreed to visit Notre Dame on Nov. 21 to discuss the relationship be­tween his government and the Catholic Church. 
Sergio Ramirez-Mercado is scheduled to give a presenta­tion entitled "Church and State in Nicaragua" at 3 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
He will be accompanied by Carlos Tunnermann, ambassa­dor from Nicaragua to the United States. 
The Graduate Association for Latin America, a group of eight Notre Dame graduate students, extended an invita­tion to Ramirez-Mercado on Sept. 25, according to Jurgen Brauer, the group's spokesper­son. 
Co-sponsoring the presenta­tion is the South Bend Chapter of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. 
Brauer said his group, whose goal is to promote community awareness of Latin American issues, asked Ramirez­Mercado to speak because of 
the  "conflict  between  the  
Church  and  state  in  
Nicaragua."  Campus view Color provided by Anheuser-Busch, Inc.  

"It's a very pertinent issue-­the church and state issue in 
see VP, page 6 


Waldheim denies he saw killings or was asked to work for Soviets 

Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austria-President Kurt Waldheim said on Thursday he did not fight Yugoslav partisans during a Nazi operation and denied he was approached after the war to work for Soviet intelligence, according to his spokesman. 
Gerold Christian, Waldheim's spokesman, made the comments after new alle­gations appeared in the U.S. media about Waldheim's activ­ity in World War II. 
The Washington Post re­ported Thursday that Waldheim acknowledged after months of denial that he had played a role in the brutal Nazi "pacification" operation that cost thousands of lives in Yugoslavia. 
It said in a 13-page memo sent to the Post in April that the former U.N. secretary­general had denied he was in­volved in the 1942 operation to remove all80,000 residents, in­cluding 3,500 armed partisans, from Kozara, a mountainous region in Yugoslavia. 
The newspaper Thursday quoted Christian as saying "ad­ditional research" revealed the president's earlier statement was incorrect. 
But in a telephone conversa­tion with The Associated Press on Thursday, Christian said the earlier statements by Waldheim that he was not in­volved in the Kozara operation "were not incorrect." 
"The war record was, however, supplemented after files and documents were found" and the information was made available to U.S. aut­horities in August, Christian said. 
Christian, who said Waldheim was in the Kozara area for a short period, quoted the president as saying he was not directly involved in fighting and did not witness mass kil­lings. 
Waldheim "never was pres­ent during combat action," Christian said. "He was unfit for the front and never had a rifle to shoot with. . . . " 

"Waldheim never took part 
A secretary in Waldheim's office later telephoned the AP with an English-language statement, saying, "With regard to the Kozar a (area), Dr. Waldheim's service was limited to the normal duties of a junior supply officer and did not involve any combat activ­ity." 
Waldheim's recent cam­paign-for the presidency was marred by allegations he was involved in wartime atrocities against partisans and Jews in Yugoslavia and Greece. in anY way in actions against partisans or Jews," Christian said. The spokesman said Waldheim "never got into physical contact with par­tisans, because he performed a subordinated activity" as a supply officer. 
Waldheim denied the charges and maintained he was the victim of a campaign to deny him the presidency. He won the June 8 election with nearly 54 percent of the vote. 

Congresswoman says religion and politics do mix in government 
By CINDY RAUCKHORST Senior Staff Reporter 
Louisiana Congresswoman Corrine Claiborne "Lindy" Boggs told a Notre Dame audi­ence Thursday that religion and politics do mix, despite constant questions about the nature of their relationship. 
"We Americans can breathe a sigh of relief that our system of government under our con­stitution. . . is strong enough and resilient enough to accom­modate political and religious movements without visiting undue principles, practices and laws," she said at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The 14-year House veteran said U.S. churches and religi­ous organizations are impor­tant links in the political process because of the input they provide to government leaders. 
"Many play that important role to the hilt," she said. 

Boggs, a liberal democrat, said, however, that religious leaders must respect the writ­ten and unwritten limits of their political participation. 
"As are most Americans, I am apprehensive about a preacher or a priest or a rabbi accompanying me into the voting booth, for example," she added. 
"Religion and politics in modern America remain a complex and mixed pattern of conflict and accommodation," she said. 
Boggs said she also is troubled when a politician's re­ligious beliefs are called into question because of an arms control or social programs vote. 
"Criticize them because of how they voted and because of their philosophies, but not be­cause of how they believe in God," she explained. 
Boggs became the first wo­man elected to Congress from Louisiana in March of 1972, after winning a special election called to fill a vacancy left by her husband, House Majority Leader Hale Boggs, who disap­peared after an apparent plane crash in Alaska. 
Hotly-debated issues such as school prayer and equal access proposals, public observance of religion and public aid to private schools challenge gov­ernment officials most often today, Boggs said. 
She said that although no church-state issue has excited greater public controversy 
see RELIGION, page 4 

'Pink slips' won't be sent home to some SMC parents 
By PEGGY PROSSER Staff Reporter 
Mid-semester deficiency notices will no longer be sent to the parents of juniors and seniors at Saint Mary's, ac­cording to Teresa Marcy, the College's assistant to the vice-president. 
The proposal to discon­tinue mailing the deficiency notices to parents of juniors and seniors was passed at a meeting of the Academic Standards Committee, of which Marcy is a member. The proposal was also passed by the Academic Af­fairs Council and was ap­proved by College President William Hickey. 
The notices, known to Saint Mary's students as "pink slips," are sent to stu­dents whose work at mid­term is lacking in some way. 
"A deficiency is a warning that there is still time to im­prove," said Marcy. 
Instructors will now be re­quired to send deficiency notices to appropriate stu­dents, whereas some had previously chosen to not do so. This has created prob­lems for students in the past, Marcy said. 
"If a student thinks she's getting one and doesn't get it, she thinks she's doing bet­ter than she actually is. This is very misleading to the stu­dent," Marcy said. 

Ifa professor still chooses not to send the notices home, he or she will not receive support from the College should a problem arise, Marcy added. 
"If a professor doesn't send one, the administration won't support a professor if he or she IS challenged for a grade," Marcy said. 
The new policy is ex­plained in detail in a letter that has been mailed out to students and their parents. 
Under the new system, a student's parents will receive a copy of the deficiency notices only if the student is on academic probation, Marcy said. Otherwise, juniors and seniors are expected to have enough experience to evalu­ate their own performance, according to Marcy. It will be up to the student to share with her parents informa­tion about her academic status. 
The letter states that any parent of a junior or senior who wishes to receive copies of deficiency notices must 
see SMC, page 4 


--~ ----~---~~-­
__,__

~--~-~-~ 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 2 
-~------~~--------------· ------·­

In Brief 

William Shannon , professor of history and journalism at Boston University and former U.S. ambassador to Ireland, ~ave a lecture yesterday titled "Two Views of Irish Nationalism" to approximately fifty people in the Memorial Library auditorium lounge. Shannon spoke of the influence Irish-Americans had on the Irish quest for national identity during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The lecture was sponsored by Notre Dame's Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism as one of its annual Hibernian Series. -The Observer 
Ten Notre Dame faculty members were recently in­stalled in endowed academic chairs. The professors in­stalled were: Charles Alcock, Frank Freimann, Visiting Professor of Materials Science and Engineering; Jorge Bustamante, Eugene and Helen Conley Professor of Sociol­ogy; Wladyslaw Fiszdon, Visiting Frank Freimann Pro­fessor of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering; Jacek Furdyna, Aurora and Tom Marquez Professor of Infor­mation Theory and Computer Technology; John Gilligan, George Shuster University Professor and special assistant to the president for public policy; Father Richard McCor­mich, John O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics; Philip Quinn, John O'Brien Professor of Philospohy; Robert Schuler, John Zahm, Professor of Radiation Chemistry; Father Robert Taft, Visiting John O'Brien Professor of Theology; Robert Vecchio, Franklin Schurz Professor of Management. The University has 95 endowed professor­ships established and 60 fully funded. -The Observer 
The pursuit of parietal r~vision at this time was voted down at last night's joint meeting of the Saint Mary's Programming Board and Board of Governance. The boards voted 12-6 to keep the present system requiring men to leave their IDs at a parietal desk. The new policy would still require an escort in the hall, but it would not be necessary for men to leave an ID at a parietal desk. Judicial Commissioner Mary Fisher has started a student committee, independent of student government, to rally support for the new policy. -The Observer 

Of Interest 

"What's Right with the Catholic Church?," a one-day seminar, will be held Saturday from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium in Saint Mary's Madeleva Hall. The event is sponsored by the College's Center for Spirituality. 
-The Observer 

A Spanish Mass will be celebrated Sunday morning at 11 in the Farley Hall Chapel with Father Joseph English presiding. Refreshments will be provided after the liturgy, which is sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. There will be a special collection for the victims of the El 
Salvadoran earthquake. -The Observer 

Weather 

As the Fighting Irish get set to battle Navy this weekend, the weather today looks to be favorable, with sunny skies and highs in the low to mid 60s. Tonight there will be increasing cloudiness with lows in the upper 40s. Tomorrow looks to be partly sunny and mild with a 40 percent chance of showers. -The Obser­ver 
Design Editor ..••..... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ........ Cathy Stacy ............••••... Andy Fenoglio Typesetters .......... Chris Reardon ..................... Smedlaboe News Editor . .......... Regis Coccia Copy Editor . ......... Rachel Jarosh Sports Copy Editor . Oil Can Bums (L) .................. Calvin Schiraldi Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout. ... Kathleen Moran 

Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tbe Obsener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame,lndiana46S56. The Obsernr is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
~-~-~_ed·--------------------------~ 
Features Copy Editor • .. Eric Bergamo 
· ..... · · ............... Ed Nolan Features Layout .••••• Heather Hypes ..................... Karen Webb Typists ............... Esther Ivory ND Day Editor . .... Noreen O'Connor SMC Day Editor . .•••... Karin Radar AdDesign ..•... Mary Carol Creadon Irish Extra Layout Kathleen McKernan Photographer ........ Paul Oeschger 
,----~ 





I~.£:-I 

-·------·--------------=-.:..:.:::.:.:.::.-=.:::..:..:.::....::~:....____;~________;__ __:____!___:::.__ 
College students too grown up for eighth-grade dating scene 
The following events are true. Some names and identities have been changed to protect the guilty. 
While relaxing on the tropical island of Jamaica, my mind was quickly brought back to the reality of South Bend when I first entered the Junkanoo Lounge. Located in the beautiful six star Rose Hall Beach Hotel, in Montego Bay, Jamaica, was the lounge--the Jamaican version of the Senior Bar. As I sat with some friends, sipping on the special Rum punch, listening to popular songs from the United States, I looked and realized the entire place was filled with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. After sitting at a table, watching people dance, one of my friends decided to get a drink. Right after she left, I felt a tap on the shoulder and a guy said, "Hey, what's your friend's name in the white jump suit?" I said, "The one with blond or brown hair?" "The blond," he said. I told him her name was Cindy. He said, "Tell her I say hi." Off he went and I thought, O.K. now I'm supposed to tell my friend that some guy with short brown hair says hi. When she returned I told her what he said. She was semi­flattered but more confused as to why he couldn't tell her himself. 
About a half an hour later, as I was walking past the bar, the same guy approached me and said, "Hey, tell her my name is Dan." O.K. As I went back I told her and we thought, wait a minute, we're all seniors in college. This reminded me of eighth grade behavior. Then I thought about my 13 year old niece, an ei~hth grader, and how she dates. A friend of a fnend will aP.proach her and say, Dave wants to go out with you. If she tells that friend yes, then they are going out. No, they don't go anywhere, but they are an item. They may write notes, talk on the phone, or meet at the mall. When on.e of the two wishes to break up, they just tell a friend and it soons gets back to the other P.erson. An eighth grader doesn't have the pos­Itive self-image necessary to take charge. 
The next stage comes in high school, some people continue to go through friends in making sure the person they want to take out will say yes. But when the couple finally does get to­gether, they are able to decide how serious they will become and when they will break up be­tween each other. Here, people may have more self confidence but a positive self-image may be lacking. 
My impression was that the next stage comes in college--at least by senior year. I would hope that if someone can make it through 4 years of college at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, that they would be able to say hello to a member of the opposite sex. It's sad if they can't. I realize the same insecurites and fear can come up when 
TIME FOR TIME FOR 
TIME FOR BIG FUN 
IME FOR BIG FUN 
]j• n.\et 
I)( 0 t'\ ce\' $.')
'vo/~O'1-.. c.~enO' ' <. 00 
u 1 ;;)\ t"11e Ot I.J... October 31st ...n. 
It IS C ql.~OQ'' • 
................e~~~o, ...................v........... 
Margie Kersten 
Saint Mary's Editor 


1 

I \ 

# • 

I 
a person has a crush on someone else. This is normal. People may want the security and protection of making sure before they take the chance of saying hello. This fear of rejection is harmful and lessens self-confidence. 
According to Dr. Wayne Dyer, self -confidence ~~gins with a posi~ive attitude. By having pos­Itive self-expectations, for example, expecting to succeed, to be attractive and to be effective self-confidence will be enhanced. He says self confidence comes from oneself, and not from other people. "Allfear is internal,'' and he adds, people are not fearsome, one thinks fearful ~houghts and ~hen beco~es afraid. Competition Is not a confidence budder, because it must come from oneself and not by comparison. 
The key to self confidence is action Dyer says. He poses the question of, "How do you know that you can ride a bicycle? Because you've done it." The same is true for saying hello to a member of the. opposite sex, asking someone to dance, or askmg someone out on a date. By asserting oneself, saying hello when one may be feeling shy or insecure, the level of self confidence is improved. 

l
It is only until peorle are willing to take this chance that they wil know what a relationship means. A relationship can only build with love and trust and this means taking risks. 


\ 
4
. 
~ 


BAND 
BIG FUN BIG FUN 


Notre Dame vs. Navy 
Saturday, November 1, 1986Time 7:15p.m. EST 
Notre Dame 49, Navy 9,Series one tie 


Last 
November 2, 1985Meeting Notre Dame 41, Navy 17 
Rankings Both teams unranked 
Tickets Game is sold out 
The Schedule 
Notre Dame (2-4) 
L -MICHIGAN, 24-23 L -Michigan St., 20-15 W -PURDUE, 41-9 L-Alabama, 28-10 L -PITTSBURGH, 10-9 W -AIR FORCE, 31-3 Nov. 1 -at Navy Nov. 8-SMU Nov. 15-PENN STATE Nov. 22-at LSU Nov. 29 -at USC 

Navy (3-4) 
W -VIRGINIA, 20-10 L -Indiana, 52-29 W-LEHIGH, 41-0 W -DARTMOUTH, 45-0 L-Air Force, 40-6 L -PENN, 30-26 L -Pittsburgh, 56-14 Nov. 1-NOTRE DAME Nov. 8-at Syracuse Nov. 15-DELAWARE Dec. 6-ARMY 
T\ and Radio 
TBS national broadcast Mel Proctor, Paul HornungWNDU-TV (Ch. 16) Jeff Jeffers, Jack Nolan 
Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna WNDU-AM 1500 WFVI-AM 640 Frank Mastro, Sean Pieri 
• 
flS 


Navy The Observer weekend Edition, oct. 31-Nov. 1, 1986 


Irish, Middies clash for 60th time 
Longest consecutive rivalry marked with memories 




By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 
Bob Dylan's claim that the times are a changin' can be seen in the long history of Notre Dame-Navy contests. What was once a matchup between powers is now something less prestigious. 
Notre Dame owns a 49-9-1 mark against Navy in the nation's longest continuous intersec­tional rivalry, and the Irish have also taken the last 22 games played. 
But the simple numbers of the of the games do not accurately portray the significance of the series. They do not take into account such things as in­tegrity and mutual respect. 



Banks pulls his weight 

Senior switches to aid Irish 

These are the cornerstones of the matchup. 
"Some people say that Notre Dame should quit playing Navy," says Navy Sports Infor­mation Director Thomas Bates. "A lot of people think we should stop playing Notre Dame, too. They wonder why we keep going to continually get beat up. 
"The fact of the matter is that the relationship between the two schools is one of the health­iest around. By healthy, I mean that we both have clean pro­grams, and we have mutual respect for each other, going all the way from the ad­ministrations to the coaches to the players." 
Notre Dame Sports Informa­tion Director Roger V aldiserri echoes Bates' sentiments about the schools' mutual respect. 
"These schools just have a .great relationship," he says. "It's just a pleasure to flaythem each year because o the relationship we have." 
The last time it wasn't much of a pleasure for the Irish was way back in 1963 when the Mid­shipmen trounced Notre Dame 35-14. Navy's quarterback was a fellow named Roger Staubach back then. 
It's no coincidence that some the most memorable games in the series, according to both 
see SERIES, page l 
By MIKE CHMIEL 
Sports Writer 
After establishing oneself at a position, making a change seems very unlikely and highly undesire­able. 
For Robert Banks, a change in jobs seemed very unlikely during his first three years at outside 
linebacker for the Irish. 
In his first three seasons, Banks backed the line in every contest and is the only player on the cur­rent Notre Dame roster to have played in all 35 games between 1983 and 1985. In that period, he logged over 560 minutes of playing time and ac­counted for over 133 tackles. 
While Notre Dame welcomed a new head coach this season, Notre Dame also graduated some out­standing talent on the defensive line last year, including a first-round draft choice for the New York Giants in Eric Dorsey. With only two expe­rienced starters returning to anchor the defenstve front, the Irish called on Banks to make a move to defensive tackle. 

"He's adjusted very well," says Irish defensive line coach Joe Yonto. "He's doing a fine job. He's fulfilled our expectations-there's no question. It's a matter of him adjusting to a new position and doing well." 
While Banks did well at outside linebacker and
felt comfortable behind the line, he accepted the challenge on the line despite being at a size dis­
advantage. 

"Going into the spring, we only had two defensive linemen in Wally Kleine and Mike Griffin, who was recovering from an injury," explains Banks. "I wouldn't want to go through my senior year saying I had a pretty good year playing outside linebacker while I didn't help the team, because we were hurting up in the line. 
"It's gone pretty well," continues the 6-5, 246­pounder. "I have to really go out and work hard everyday -more than I had imagined playing in my senior year because outside linebacker was so comfortable. I have to do a lot of little things well 
see BANKS, page l 





Irish Extra, pages 2-3 





~AVY. NOTRE 
DOLLAR 

ONE. DAME 
Cover courtesy Notre Dame Sports Information Dept. 
1962-Behind Daryle Lamonica, Notre Dame upsets Navy and Roger Staubach, 20-12. 

Series 
continuedfrom page 1 

Valdiserri and Athletic Direc­tor Emeritus Edward "Moose" Krause, took place in the early sixties when the versatile Staubach was running and throwing his way into the record books. 
Notre Dame beat Staubach as a sophomore while holding him to only 65 yards of total offense. Daryl Lamonica stole the show with two one-yard touchdown plunges, and a 45-yard touch­down pass to guide the Irish to the 20-12 upset. 
Stuabach's Middies got their revenge the next season, however, 35-14. While Staubach threw for two touchdowns, ful­lback Pat Donnelly proved to be the real problem as he rushed for 127 yards in 14 carries and caught for 41 yards as well. 
In 1964, John Huarte and the Irish whipped Staubach, who struggled with minor injuries, and the Midshipmen, 40-0. That rout marked the beginning of the current Notre Dame 22­game winning streak over Navy. · 
Some of the best games of the series took place in the 30s and the 40s. Both teams were powers and most of the games had major implications with the final rankings. 
The best of the batch occurred from 1943-45. In 1943, the top­ranked Irish coached by Frank Leahy, pummeled the third­ranked Middies, 33-6. Notre Dame went on to win the Na­tional Championship, while Navy finished fourth. 
In 1944, sixth-ranked Navy up­set the Irish, who were second­ranked, by a 32-13 score. Navy finished fourth, while Notre Dame fell to ninth in the final polls. 
Second-ranked Notre Dame and third-ranked Navy met in 1945, and fought to a 6-6 tie. The Irish went on to lose twice and fall to ninth in the rankings, while Navy finished second. 
But no matter which game was most important, or which was the most exciting, each person has that certain game that sticks in his mind the most. Valdiserri and Bates are no ex­ceptions. 
"One of the most interesting games was in 1974, in Philadel­phia, with Ara Parseghian coaching," Valdiserri says. "We were heavily favored, and it was a real dogfight. We came away with a 14-6 win. They played us very tough. 
"That game is typical of the series, though. When one team is supposed to run all over the other, it's a close game. When it's supposed to be close, it isn't." 
Bates recalls two memorable games in recent years that have turned Navy's bids for victory into showcases for the "what if" museum. 
"Two years ago, we were ahead 17-7 with less than three minutes left," Bates says. "They came back to win on a Carney field goal, but three calls went against us that would have given us the victory had the referees made the calls. They had 12 men on the field once, they roughed the punter and the 25-second clock ran out on the winning field goal. Even the holder admitted it had run out." 
The other could-have-been for Bates also ranks on Valdiser­ri's list. Bates describes Navy's heartbreaker like this. 
"It was in Cleveland in 1976," he says. "We came into the game with a 1-6 record and, like this year, with a lot of injuries. Pitt had beaten us, 45-0, the week earlier. But Notre Dame 
see CLOSE, page 3 


Banks 
continuedfrom page 1 
to stay ahead of my opponents. 
Notre Dame proved to be an obvious choice for the Hampton, Va., native be­cause of the strong football tradition and the challenge that Notre Dame pro­vided. 
"Football was a big priority," says Banks. "Notre Dame plays a lot of good people with a tough schedule. 
"I got an offer to go to just about any school in the nation," says the prep all­American. "In the long run, for a black athlete to go to Notre Dame and come out is quite prestigious. The challenge carried a lot of weight." 
As a freshman, Banks gradually worked his way into the starting line-up in the season finale against Air Force. In that contest, the young defender made his presence known with 10 tackles at weakside linebacker. 
In his second and third seasons, Banks continued to improve with consistent strong outings. After former Irish linebacker Mike Larkin suffered a knee injury prior to the start of the 1984 cam­paign, Banks was able to capture a starting job at outside linebacker -a job that he maintained for 23 straight games. 
As a sophomore, Banks was second on the squad in tackles with 65 including 21 solos. Last year, the former backer notched 50 stops including a sack and three drops for lost yardage. 

This season, Banks began the cam­paign with an outstanding effort against the highly-tauted Michigan Wolverines. Banks led the Irish in the season opener with 13 tackles including eight solos and one tackle for a six-yard loss. 
In the first road game for the Irish; however, disaster found Banks. The new tackle pulled a hamstring against Michigan State. That pull sidelined him for the first time as a member of the Irish when Notre Dame entertained Purdue the following week. 
"It was kind of weird to sit on the sidelines and look in," says Banks. "There were some points in the game when I wanted to go in, and it was kind of hard to look down the road and hope to get healthy. But I didn't want to hurt the team more than I could help it." 
Banks believes that he is currently playing at about 85 percent. Despite the pulled hamstrin~, Banks did start the Alabama game m which he accounted for seven stops. While he missed the Pitt game, Banks did manage to come back against Air Force. 
"He's been bothered by that hamstring injury," says Yonto. "It's one of those things that, when you get it, it stays with you the rest of the season. Unfor­tunately, that hamstring bothered him enough that he can't make some moves in there that he normally could. He's playing over it, however, with a great effort." 
While his maneuverability has been hampered, Banks' speed remains his greatest commodity. 
"I think I'm more effective now," says Banks. "I'm in a position that could cause problems for the offense. The strongest part of my game is playing the line against the run. I can utilize my quickness against opponents when they are 300 (pounds) or 280 and a lot slower." 
Yonto agrees that Banks' speed is a 

Hobert Banks 

definite plus on the line for the Irish. The defensive coach, however, believes that the tackle contributes in other ways as well. 
"He contributes quickness and he con­tributes help in shutting down the run­ning game," says Yonto. "He also con­tributes hurries on the passer. His overall attitude has certainly helped the defense. His strongest points are his quickness and his desire to excell." 
For the rest of the season, the senior believes that the Irish have come a long way and will have a good shot at win­ning their last five contests to end the campaign on a strong note. If the Irish are successful in this task, the two-time bowl game starter believes that the Irish will be heading south to another bowl this year. 
"We've come a long way since our defeat to Miami last year,'' says Banks. "We have proven to ourselves that we can play with anyone in the country. If we would have eliminated some of the mistakes, we would have been in the win column much more. 
"We can't look back. This team still has a lot of confidence and people are putting forth a good effort. We're going to look forward, try to win the rest of our games and end up with a 7-4 record." 
Despite lack-luster records throughout his career at Notre Dame, Banks has been pleased with stay. 
"I have no regrets," says Banks. "As a person, I have grown a lot in coming here, and I'll never regret it." 
After this season, the psychology major hopes to pursue a professional football career. Ifthe opportunity arises, Banks is likely to contribute a strong attitude in the pro ranks. 
"I can only give it my best shot. You try to do everything you can to win, and that's the main thing-winning." 

Weekend Edition-October 31-November 1, 1986 Scene-page 2 
Time travel is fun in 'Peggy Sue Got Married' 

r r 
DON SEYMOUR features writer 
Perhaps the most remarkable thing about "Peggy Sue Got Married" is the resurrection of director Francis Coppola. After nearly a decade of nops("One From the Heart," "The Outsiders" and "Rumble Fish"), he has emerged from a morass of personal problems with his finest film since "Apocalypse Now." That film was a masterpiece; "Peggy Sue" is not quite that good. You could say it's a mature "Back to the Future." 

Movie review 
Peggy Sue Got Married 
***(outof four) 
Peggy Sue Bardell, upset about her im­pending divorce, attends her 25th high school reunion. While being crowned queen of the reunion, she faints and finds herself transported back to her senior year of high school with her 4.3-year-old sensibiljty and experience intact. She's given the chance to relive her past and change what she did wrong. 
As with "Back to the Future," the anachronisms involved in time travel are great fun. In Peggy Sue's case, most of this fun comes from the clash of a grown woman's consciousness in a teenager's body. Peggy Sue gets caught drinking after a tough day and she tells her teacher that algebra is worthless in future life. In one of the funniest scenes, she asks her boyfriend (and husband to be) to make love. He gets nervous and responds by checking his watch. 
Unlike "Back to the Future," the fun takes a backseat to the character of Peg­gy. She is, as she tells her friend Richard, a walking anachronism. The film's power lies in this woman's chance to evaluate 




/Movies~J 
The Student Actlvites Board will present Wes Craven's horror thriller "A Nightmare on Elm Street" tonight and tomorrow night In the Engineering Auditorium. Teenagers are having ter­rifying nightmares of a man named Freddy and they're not waking up from them. At least not alive. John Saxon and Heather I..angekamp star. Show­times are at 7, 9:15 and 11 p.m. with $1.50 admission. 
The department of communication and theater will present "La Passante" tonight In the Annenberg Auditorium. The movie tells the story of an anti­fascist newspaper editor In Berlin In the 1930s who Is put on trial for the murder of the Nazi responsible for his foster mother's death. Showtlmes are 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. with $1.50 admis­sion. 
A guide to local movie theaters In the South Bend area. University Park Mall on Grape and Cleveland Roads at 277-0441. fourm Cinema on US .31 at 277­1522. Town and Country on 2.340 North Hickory Road at 259-9090. Scottsdale In the Scottsdale Mall at 291-458.3. River Park on 2929 Mishawaka Ave­nue at 288-8488. 100 Center Cinema In the 100 Cen­ter at 259-0414. 

~I 
Continuing at the Snlte Museum Is the "American Master Photographers;· exhibit located In the Print. Drawing and Photography Gallery and the "Plranesl Prints from Indiana Collec­tions," featuring the works ofGiovanni Battista Plranesl. continue this weekend. 

the choices she's made in life and to re­
member what led her to make those 
choices. 

The film seems to believe the past can­not be changed much. "I can't change anything. I can't help anybody," Peggy Sue says in exasperation near the end of the movie. What is even more interesting is that she finds out she doesn't want to change much. She does give the outcasts--the school brain and a beatnik poet--the chance she didn't give them as a teenager. But overall, to change her past would be to lose the future she's known and she's not willing to do that. 
Some of the finest moments in this film occur when the adult Peggy Sue ap­preciates what she had taken for granted in the past. She hugs her baby sister just for walking into the room. When her mot­her tucks her into bed, she says, "Mom, I never remember you being this young." Then there's the magical scene with her grand-parents, played by Maureen O'Sullivan and Leon Ames. Peggy Sue tells them how she has travelled in time and they believe her. 
Kathleen Turner delivers a first rate per­formance as Peggy Sue, though she doesn't quite look 18. It's not an Academy Award-winning performance, but she'll probably be nominated. Nicholas Cage stands out more than Turner because his performance as her boyfriendtlusband is convincing. He makes an unlikeable char­acter interesting. Plus, his younger age allows him to pull off the age range more smoothly than Turner can. Finally, Barry Miller shines as Richard Norvik, the school brain turned successful businessman. 
"Peggy Sue Got Married" is a relief after one of the worst movie summers ever. It's intelligent and mature--not a master­piece, but a moving tale of a dream we all have: to relive the past. 
"Peggy Sue Got Married" is now showing at the Scottsdale Mall Theater. 

The Scoop 

Closing this weekend at the Art Cen­ter on St. Joseph Street Is the 1986 fibre Artlslans exhibit "Made To Touch" In the Women's Art League Gallery. Also at the Art Center's Warner Gallery Is the "910 Wayne Street Group Sculpturef:merglng Artist Award Ex­hibit." Admission to the exhibit Is free. 
I
Music 

A University Artists Series recital featuring pianist Claude Cymerman will be held at 4 p.m. Sunday In the Annenberg Auditorium. Cymerman will perform works by Mozart, Llszt. Bach and Schumann. The concert Is free. 
Andrew Llyod Weber's musical "IMta,"about the life and times of Eva Peron, will be shown at 8 p.m. Sunday at the O'I..aughlln Auditorium at Saint Mary's. For ticket Information call 284­4626. 
The M1dwest Pops Orchestra will present a ParloP'Park Concert at 7:.30 
p.m. Sunday at the South Bend Cen­tury Center. The concert will feature "Casey at the Bat," "Liberty Bell . March," "The Entertainer" from the movie "The Sting" and "A Foster fan­tasy." For Information and tickets call the Century Center Box Office at 284­9111. 
Smithereens and Walk The West will perform tonight and The Virgin Prunes, a band from Dublin, Ireland who have gained Increasing attention on college radio with their new album The Moon Looked Down And Laughed, will perform tomorrow night at the Cabaret Metro at .37.30 N. Clark Ave. In Chicago. The Dead Milkmen will have a 6:.30 p.m. show Sunday at the Cabaret Metro. 
The British Invasion Tour starring Gerry and The Pacemakers, The Searchers, Freddie and The Dreamers, Chad and Jeremy and The Mlndbenders will be featured tomor­row night at The Holiday Star Theater In Merrillville, Ind. Showtlmes are at 7 and 10:.30 p.m. Tickets for the show are $15.95 and available by calling (219) 769-6600. 
Notre Dame's new undergraduate club, Theodore's, will hold Its grand opening tonight at 8 p.m. on the second floor of LaFortune Student Center. A trip for two to the USC game will be drawn during the evening. 
The Senior Class will be sponsoring a Day of Reflection from 12:.30 to 6 p.m.tomorrow at Bulla Shed, across from Pasquerilla East on Juniper Road. Father flntan Steele will be conducting this mini-retreat for all Interested seniors. 

The celebrants for Mass at Sacred heart Church this weekend will be: 
Father Robert Grlffln at 5 p.m. on Saturday. 
father Michael Heppen at 9 a.m. on Sunday. 
father Daniel Jenky at 10:.30 and 
12:15 p.m. The schedule for confessions In Sa­cred Heart Church Is: Monday through Saturday at 11:15 
a.m. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. Saturday only 4-5 p.m. In the crypt. Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15 
p.m. In the Lady Chapel. 
The rosary Is said dally at 6:45p.m. at the Grotto. 


Weekend Edition-October 31-November 1, 1986 Scene-page 3 
-
Identity as more than bricks I have been absolutely sure climbed out on the ledge to moved back and forth from and mortar. There Is a respect there Is someone sitting In the make faces at Bottom through the Jetter s to g to s to g. FI­

Ghost 
for the space Itself, all the cor­empty auditorium, but when the window she had just nally, the piece flew out across 
ners and nooks." He classltled I go to speak to them, there's closed. '~Goodbye", and they ran out. continued {rom page 1 Washington Hall's architec­no one there," Syburg said. She was laughing, but ail of What did s-g mean? As they 
ture as part of the pre­''I'm sure It can be explained a sudden Sheehy saw her ran toward the Huddle, a light 
Theaters and ghosts Victorian era, full of mysteri­In the pattern of what's there whirl her head around to look came on In the basement of Some members of the ous nooks and crannies and In the corner of your eye, but behind her, then she threw Washington, and two of the theater group explained the uses of space. "You always It really gives you a jolt when open the window, terrified, to students went back to Inves­think of haunted houses as It happens." let him back Inside. They ran tigate. A security guard came
image as a theater ghost, a "connoisseur of the theater" being big Victorian or pre­Tales from the near side out of the building, and Bot­out just as they reached the which would Inhabit such Victorian mansions. Maybe Barkes also said he saw a tom told him she had heard door, and they realized that 
buildings as Washington Hail the spirit world likes this kind tong-haired girl wearing bell­someone standing right be­s-g meant security guard. Was bottoms standing In the stair­hind her whisper "GET OUT!" the ghost trying to warn
because of the wide open of architecture." 
But neither she nor Sheehy, them?
spaces and the opportunity to If the ghost Is gone, Notre well one night as he was lock­who had been facing her, saw These unexplainable occur­observe productions, or per­Dame students haven't Ing the theater. He turned 
haps as an accumulation of realized It yet. According to around to tell her she would anyone there. rences have become legends the excess energy an actor Professor Reginald Baln, have to leave the building, but Joe Musumeci was a friend through the years and have of Wright's who lived In the even survived the renovation
exudes to become the charac­chairman of the communlca­there was no one there. He ter he portrays on stage. tlon&theater department at explained that his mind could "underground," the basement of Washington Hall. "No self­"Most good theaters are Notre Dame, there Is a group have possibly projected an of Washington Hall. One respecting 104-year-old haunted," said Professor that has held a seance In the imaginary person on the 
night, he found an open Bible theater should be without its Neuert, who teaches a course building religiously every year stairs where he Is used to on his nlghtstand, which was ghost stories," said Barkes. in sceneography in the Notre on Halloween, even during seeing students every day. . gone a few minutes later when "Theater Is magic to begin 
Dame communlca­the years of renovation. Stu­Lori Prawat-Wrlght, a Notre he left the room and came with, so It Is a natural place back. Neither Musumeci nor for stories."
ater department. "It's the na­dents have also asked Wash· Dame graduate of 1986 who ture of the work Involved. The lngton Hall Manager Tom spent a lot of time In the 
any of his friends even owned The ghost stories will un­
-
origins of theater are in an­Barkes to spend the night In renovated Washington Hall, a Bible. doubtedly live on In Notre cient, mystic religion, and the the building even In recent added some recent ghost Ghost with a sense ofsecurity Dame history as a part of the theater is a place where the years. stories to the already legen­The strangest story Includes mystery and the folklore ofthe human condition Is experi­Since the renovations, stu­dary ones. According to a ouiji board and a group of place. But In the meantime, enced, where truths and ideas dents and professors have Wright, In the 1984-85 school students who sneaked Into rumor has It that If you sit on about existence are played had the eerie experience, year, students John Sheehy Washington Hall last year the edge of center stage with out. It's a place where the even In daylight, of seeing and Liz Bottom were by the close to midnight. They set up the theater totally darkened, human spirit Is celebrated." someone In Washington Hall box office on the second floor on stage, asked the ghost "Do even without the Exit lights, "There Is a mood or a feeling out of the corner of the eye, late at night when It started to you want to speak to us?" and and you look up In the bal­In a theater that the building but there Is no one there when rain. They went to close the the piece moved to "No" and cony, you will see a shadow Itself participates In a produc­they turn to look. "There have windows on either side of the "Goodbye." When they kept ofa flgure sitting In the center 
tion, as If the space has an been a number of times when box office, and Sheehy asking "Why?" the piece of the very last row .... 
A Premium Beer with Natural Lemon Flavor A refreshing alternative! No bitter aftertaste!  
Lemon Lager is now available at these fine establishments. .. Bridget McGuire& Prairie Liquors Cut Rate Liquors Ul' Caesar's Kevin's Mitchell's Indiana Club Commons Hank's SupermarketFrank's Place Eagles Super Saver Thornburg Drug Barg·N·BagKings' Cellar Miami Plaza Liquor Store Harris Liquor Store Last Stop LiquorsCasun's Council Oak Liquors Cira's Supermarket Ranlta Grill Osco Drugs Bullseye Liquors McKinnley Terrace Market Portage LiquorsMorin's Cafe Pink Elephant Liquor Store Lee's Liquors T & C LiquorsUncle's Irish Pub 12th St. Liquors Backstage! Pizza King331 Inn Party Package Papa Joe's The Package StoreMax's Liquors Rodinb-Parkmor Liquors Mr. Al's Liquors Walgreen'sHelnnle's Ski's Place Superette Food Market City Wide LiquorsSterling Ave Liquors Corldowne Liquors Pak'n Shop Stores Giannetto's The liquor Station The Pop Stop Office Lounge Hickory Hiram's Pine's Liquors Rlverpark Liquors Pizza Tyme 0C LiquorsDale's Place Chevron Cafe Eagle Inn Green Star Cafe Ironwood Liquors McKinnley Pub East Race Liquors Chuck's Tavern SttJbby's Y·Knot Shack Gene and Mary's Alibi Inn  

Theater superstition 
KATHY MARTIN 
Assistant features editor 
"Break a legt" 
"Don't whistle on stage!" 

"No humming or singing the lyrics to a show In the dressing roornt" 
The theater profession Is one of real-life representation and the Illusions of make-belleve,creatlon on stage. But there Is more to the profession than what the audience views on opening nlghl 
Among actors and dancers. directors and sceneographers, there are all sorts of superstitions and rituals that are played out on and off-stage to ensure a flne performance. These rituals have evolved Into theater folfdore.. passed down through the years and the performances to more experienced actors, chorus members. and stagehands alike;' 
t~eryone m.ows tbl:ltJtts ])ad I~, to wish an actor good luck bef()re a perfonna bu~ Wbe'te did the superstition originate? Tom 6afkes,. rna. ~.,; g~ Hall and a former dancer with the Balleth'l . • ...·f. ..·· .. . . ()tdo, explained that "Break a tegl" was createcl ¥l ~ tl!ce actot or dancer something awful. bec;ause whatever Is \lllsheti ~II never come to pass. "You never wish someone luck,~ ~rke.s said, ''You don't need luck If you have talent. and that Js how tile expression came aboul" 
The superstition that whistlingon stage Is bad luck Is also taken quite seriously. Some ,ctors stOp In their tracks and tum around three times, then either swear or spit to ward off the evil spirits after someone whistles. According to Barkes, there Is a good reason behind this superstition. "When theater flrst started in New York, the flrst stagehands-were sailors brought from the ships who understood riggings and fly systems. There were no telephones or headsets, so they would cue people to raise and lower things by whistling," he said. "Ifyou whistled on stage back then, you could get things dropped on you." 
Professor Fred Syburg of Notre Dame's Communica· tionS'Theater Department commented that many Individual actors have their own Individual superstitions. "When a performance goes well," he said, "an actor tries to recall the sequence of things he did In preparation for his character to go on stage. Then he goes through the same routine and trtes to recapture the magic. It can take on the quality of a kind of ritual and ultimately a superstition." 
"But I don't think actors are more superstitious than anyone else," Syburg added. "A basketball player has his own routine of preparation every time, too. We all have our little crutches." 
Professor Reginald Bain, chairman of Notre Dame's Communi· cations and Theater department. Is challenging a very serious superstition this Sprlhg in directing a student performance of Shakespeare's "MacBeth." It Is known as the "unlucky play," and It Is bad luck even to mention the play In a theater. Many actors refer to It as "that play," and perform a ritual of going out the door, turning three times, and swearing after someone mentions the evil name in a theater. 
Baln attributes the superstition to the "demonology of the play and the activity of the witches," though he said that "MacBeth" Is probably one of the most produced of Shakespeare's plays. "I'm not particularly superstitious," he said. "I walk under ladders. I'm probably doomed," he smiled. 
Theater folklore of old is stiU alive in the superstitions and rituals that are an Integral part of the theater profession, religi­ously held by some and Ignored by others. But will there be any whistling on stage as the production of "MacBeth" tempts fate this Spring? 
-
Weekend Edition-October 31-November 1, 1986 Scene-page 4 
-


Summer is coming to ND 
McNaught Syndicate feature 
Aries: (Mar. 21-April 19) A deadline is coming up. To avoid problems, put your Taurean penchant for meeting obliga­tions right on the bulls. 
Gemini: (May 21-June 20) After a period of reassessment, you get a clearer picture of how the relationship is going. 
cancer: (June 21-Jul 20) Fair weather friends flee when you need them most. But why should 

-that surprise you? It's only your real friends who are happy to stay with you. Leo: (July 21-August 22) A re­lationship needs all your warmth and attention. You may have to apologize for having said some thoughtless things you didn't realize were so painful. 
Virgo: (August 23-September 
22) A surprise comes through an unexpected source. Friends rally to lend further support. Your hard work merits continued recognition. 
Libra: (September 23-0ctober 
22) It's easy to get a distorted view ofwhat's happening around you. Don't rely on first impres­sions alone. Dig deeper. 

Scorpio: (October 2.3­November 21) A friend claims not to recall all the details of an im­portant matter. Don't wast time 
here.  Go  to  other  sources in­ 
stead.  
Sagitarius:  (November  22­ 

December 21 ) Be prepared for a major shift of priorities in your life. Something takes on an im­portance you hadn't expected earlier. 
Capricorn: (December 22­January 19) The basic fabric of an important relationship may be ripped beyond repair if you don't rush to patch up the misun­derstandings now. 
Aquarius: (January 20­February 18) While you can prepare for what's coming up to the best of your ability, don't be surprised at a surprising turn ·of events. 
Pisces: (February 19-March 20) A denial from someone you trust is more valuabe than an offer to "tell all" from someone you hardly know. Advice: stick with your friend. 
Special to the Observer 
The Henry Lee Summer Band, rooted In rhythm-and-blues and the Motown sound as well as Top 40 music, will perform on the Notre Dame campus tonight In Stepan Center. Summer has been targeted by many talent scouts as the next Midwest suc­cess story, following In the footsteps ofJohn Cougar Mellen­camp and earning a name and fame as Indianapolis' "ambas­sador of soul." 
Summer, 27, Is another small­town boy from Brazil, Ind. who attended college on a basketball scholarship, but left to play drums for a blues band In Mis­sissippi. "''m just a rural, Mid­western former basketball player who loves music," he said In an Interview with The Indianapolis Star. 
Summer usually plays about 15 originals a night In his con­certs, as well as Top 40 favorites from Huey Lewis, Springsteen, Prince and Motown. He describes his own music as "danceable" and believes the band will dowell In college to~s like South Bend, Lafayette, Terre Haute and Bloomington. 
The concert Is sponsored by the Student Activities Board. Mu­sical Entertainment Commis­sioner J. A. Lacy said that the Henry Lee Summer Band was chosen as a "great way to kick 
Henry Lee Summer off the musical year" for the Shout." Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com-Some of the best selections munlty. from Summer's two albums ln­"It's a good band, a great show elude "Got No Money," "When and really suited to the college Night Only Mattered," "Best environment," he commented. and "Dance the Way You "His music Is a cross of soul and To." Tickets for the concert rock-and-roll and he plays a lot on sale In The Cellar In the of old songs like 'Twist and ment of Lafortune for $_2. 

Before and after in this week's soap operas 
-
McNaught Syndicate feature 
All My Children: Stevie Wonder and Erica sang at Panache. Tad was upset when Skye said she couldn't handle a man who still loved his wife. After arguing with Cliff, Amy was hit by a car. Com· lng: Cliff agrees to operate on Amy. 
Another World: Reginald moved back Into the Love man­sion and assumed the role as head of the family. felicia saw Mitch holding Rachel in his arms, but managed to keep Mac from seeing the couple. Jamie com­vinced Brittany to move Into the Cory mansion for her health. cathleen learned that Mrs. Nixon died suddenly. Coming: Brittany Is shocked by the Identity of the car's driver. 
As The World Turns: Sierra was concerned about Craig's strange reaction to Iva's confession. Margo was upset at Tom's In­clination to follow Nancy's sug­gestion about running for Dis­trict Attorney. Coming: Tanio drops a bombshell. 
capitol: Kelly thought abut 

Brat a: Bnw Special 
'3.25 
Mon-Frl 7-8 Saturday 8-9:30 Sunday9-5 

trying to change Trey's mind 
about their relationship. Myrna 
was afraid of what Mllard might 
do next. Brenda and Dylan faced 
a new threat from DJ. Coming: 
Sloane learns a secret abvout All 
that forces her to reconsider her 
feelings for him. 

Dallas: Miss Ellie was In for the shock of her life as her suspicions about Wes Parmelee seemed to be even more devas­tating than she Imagined. J.R. was thwarted In his effort to stand off Cliffs new threats. Coming: Jenna makes a decision about her future. 
Days of our Lives: Patch reas­sured Kayla that his life with Britta was very much In the past. Savannah offered to confess everything; Chriss offered to be her lawyer. Pete was paralyzed In an accident. Melissa left Lars and returned home to be with her husband. Coming: Marlena decides to risk another break for freedom. 
falcon Crest: Angela was upset at an unexpected change In her business plans. Kit continued to resist Peter's persistent probing of her past. but unwittingly gave him a clue he could work with. Maggie faced the possibility of her nightmares coming true. Coming: Angela Ignores a serious warning. 
General Hospital: Monica's hostile testimony In court destroyed Sean's case. Edward got Sean to return the family for­tune. A fall may have caused Alan to suffer a real case of amnesia. Sandy learned Patrick led her on so he could be close to Buzz. Coming: Anna decides about Duke. 
Guiding Light: Vanessa refuses to believe Jesse wasn't her child. Dorle was upset when Dinah continued to resist admit­tlng they were sisters. Alan realized Tlto could make good on his threat ofvengeance. Com· 
lng:  Alex  confronts  Alan  and  
demands an explanation.  
Knots  Landing:  Karen  and  

Mack accused Greg of being lm­plicated In her kidnapping. Jean Hackney, the woman from Ben's past. showed up. After one ofthe twins was nearly kidnapped, Ben was forced to give Into Jean's demands. Phil made a fatal dec!­sian. Coming: Val Is shocked at 
"~owe~ fpft a~~ occagiong:· 
Comein and Browse 
327 Lincolnway )3l-3354 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

BeUy Dance Surprise 
"for a gift that is unique, send a bellygram to your shiek" 
255-3355 
see our ad in the campus yellow pages 
the change In Ben. 

Loving: Jim reassured Shana regaining his memory wouldn't change things between them. Shana admitted she loved him. Jane assured Kelley her father would never reconcile with Lorna. Jud Insisted thatJane, not Kelly, was behind Lorna and Zak's break-up. Coming: Curtis refuses to accept Lottie's expla­nation. 
One Life To Live: Marla lied to Clint. fueling his fears that VIckie had turned Into Nikki, and stole baby Jessica. Jon discovered Dimitri In Dorian's apartment. At Asa's Insistence, Tina tried to get Pam to admit she was having an affair with Pete. Coming: Alison and Marla face each other over the baby's fate. 
Ryan's Hope: Max and Slobhan heard ghostly organ music. Della tried to rekindle the flame with Roger. Melinda and Dakota ex­changed meaningful looks after Pat pressed her to marry him. Lizzie tried to make frank believe John-0 forced her to give him Owney. Coming: Maggie takes revenge on Della. 
Santa Barbara: Gina was black­mailed by Keith who wants to be reinstated as District Attorney and also wants part of the Cap· well fortune. Ted wed Hayley to keep the authorities from calling him to testify against her In Amy's fire death. Curz found Mar­tin slapping Tori and wrestled him to the ground. Coming: Eden misinterprets Cruz's renewed concern for Tori. 
Search forTomorrow: Bela ad­mitted he loved Sunny. Wilma persuaded David to operate on cagney. The operation was a success. Kate Insisted to Quinn she never had an affair with Mal· calm. She later sent a secret telegram to Malcolm In Ireland and then confronted the judge about taking money under false pretenses. Coming: The search for truth turns to Ireland. 
The Young l!t The Restless: Paul worried that Lauren was about to get Into another mess. Jill worried that Kay had turned Philip permanently against her. Kay worried that she wasn't win­ning Philip's unconditional loyalty soon enough. Coming: Victor refuses to accept Ashley's decision. 


-

~----------------------­
Weekend Edition, October 31-November 1, 1986 




Close 
continuedfrom page 2 
(ranked No. 11 at the time) barely beat us 27-21 when a defender (Joe Restic) tipped a pass away that would have given us the winning touchdown." 
But no matter how many games have decided the National Championship, or how many have gone down to the final seconds, or even ifneither team is close to being ranked, the Notre Dame-Navy series is a special one. Valdiserri and Krause admire the relentlessness that is so characteristic of the Midshipmen. 
''They always play us tough,'' Valiserri says. "They always battle down to the wire. They just never give up." 
"They are always a great challenge," echoes Krause. "They don't quit and that's typical of the series. 
"Back in the earlier days of the series, the Academies were traditional powers, and maybe they'll get back to that level, but the game is still special today. It's still a sellout in Baltimore. It's Just a great series." 
Bates says he believes the beginning of the series has a lot to do with the cur­rent relationship that the two schools enjoy. 
"When the first game was played in Baltimore in 1927, there was no written contract," he says. "We just cemented the deal with a handshake, and the two teams played the first ten games with just the handshake agreement of how the profits would be split." 
While the two football programs are not at the level they once were, the rela­tionship remains intact. After that first handshake in Baltimore, Father Res­burgh and Father Joyce have served on the Naval Academy's Board of Visitors (similar to the Board of Trustees) and a long list of players have shared a mutual respect for their opponents. Bates thinks that is because they both realize that the guy is a student, not just a football player. 
The relationship is very much alive today. If you go to an all-star game, Bates says that you will see Notre Dame and Navy players hanging out together regularly. 
Sixty years of games definitely does something, but instead of showing how much the times change, as Dylan has suggested, the Notre Dame-Navy se­ries has supported Alphonse Carr, who said, "The more thmgs change, the more they stay the same." 
ceptions) and Greg Stefanon (34, 
At quarterback, Steve Beuerleinone) lead the secondary. 

Navy 

needs 127 offensive yards to pass Joe Theismann and become Notrecontinuedfrom page 4 As good as the Navy is against the Dame's all-time leader in total of­
run, Notre Dame may have to scrap 
fense. Beuerlein needs 13 offensive just look at the technique, the exe~u­the ground game that worked so well attempts to pass Allen Pinkett and tion and the way they play. I'm gomg against Air Force. The Midshipmen become the leader in that category
to tell you, (Navy's) a good, solid allow 239.9 yards through the air, and as well. defensive football team. They did an last week Pitt's John Congemi excellent job of stopping Air Force's strafed them for five scoring passes. wishbone. They play the run very 
well." Offensively for the Irish, Anthony On the season, Beuerlein has 1,048 
Johnson will get his second-straight yards, four touchdowns and 5 inter­The anchor of the Midshipmen's start at tailback. The freshman has ceptions on 76-of-133 passing. defense is linebacker Vince McBeth rushed for 181 yards and four scores who has made 77 tackles (46 unas­this season. Johnson again could be It's important for the Irish to notch sisted) and has returned an intercep­joined by fellow freshman Braxston a win against Navy and keep up their tion 57 yards for a touchdown. Banks (90 yards) at fullback. Senior momentum as they head into the Linebacker Tom Doman has con­fullback Pernell Taylor leads the toughest part of the toughest 
tibuted 65 tackles and two intercep­Irish in rushing with 209 yards. schedule in the country. Notre 
tions. Dame's final four opponents (SMU, 
Mr. Versatility for the Irish, Tim Penn State, LSU and USC) are all Up front, the Midshipmen are led by Brown, is 11th in the country in all­top-20 teams and have a combined middle guard Enoch Blazis and de­purpose rushing. The junior flanker 19-3 record. 
fensive tackle Troy Holland, each of has 161 yards rushing to go with 347 
whom have three sacks on the year. yards in kickoff returns. As if that's A 23rd-straight victory over Navy not enough for Brown, he has 20 would make that schedule a little Mark Firlie (56 tackles, two inter-receptions for 362 more yards. easier to face. 
Time Capsule 



Notre Dame Nips Navy 
late Irish rally preserves win streak 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame met Navy in the East Rutherford, N.J., Meadowlands in 1984, the Midshipmen appeared to be sailing to an easy victory. 
It would have been the first Navy triumph over the Irish since 1963 in one of college football's longest-running se­ries but in the final four minutes, John Carney, Steve Beu~rlein and the Notre Dame offense decided it was time to sink the Naval Academy's ship. 
Carney nailed a 44-yard field goal with 14 seconds remain­ing in the contest finishing off an 11-point comeback which erased a 10-point'Navy lead, and giving the Irish a thrilling 18-17 victory. 
Following a first-quarter touchdown by Notre Dame's ~­len Pinkett, the Middies came back to score 18 consecutive points to put the Irish in deep trouble late in the game. 
A Notre Dame fumble in the second quarter led to a six­yard touchdown run by Navy fullback John Berner, tying the score at the half. 
Navy seemed to be toying with the Irish in the third quar­ter, when it opened up a 14-7 lead with the help of some trickery. On a third-and-goal play from the 2-yard line, reserve quarterback Jim Lauletta lined up in the tailback slot and took a shotgun snap from center. He then tossed the ball to wide-open quarterback Bill Byrne for the score. 
A Todd Solomon field goal with 4:02 left made it 17-7 Middies, and set the stage for the remarkable comeback. 
Beuerlein, the sophomore quarterback, started things off, skippering an 83-yard touchdown drive that took only 1:45 off the clock. The signal-caller hooked up on five consecu­tive completions, three to freshman Tim Brown, and Pinkett finished things off with a one-yard run. 
The junior Pinkett finished with 165 yards on the day, moving him into second place on Notre Dame's all-time rushing list and becoming the leader in 100-yard games for the Irish, with his 14th. 
Beurlein found flanker Joe Howard wide open for a two­point conversion to make the score 17-15, and a tough defensive series by Notre Dame stopped the Middies in three plays. 
The decisive drive began on the Irish 18-yard line following a Navy punt and a Notre Dame personal foul, but Beuerlein and the Irish troops worked the clock well in the final minute and moved down to the Navy 26. 
And just when the Midshipmen thought they had broken the draught with a long-awaited win over a Notre Dame football team, Carney promptly kicked a hole in the Navy battleship. 
Irish Extra, page 4 

Weekend Edition, October 31-November 1, 1986 
7 
. 
,,..




The Game 
~-·.


By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
BALTIMORE-Ifyou're a midshipman at the Naval Academy, you have to ask yourself 'How Ion~, how long?' when it comes to the subJect of Notre Dame. The two prestigious institutions have played each other every year for the past 60, and it hasn't been much of a contest. 
The Irish own a 49-9-1 advanta~e over

-the Midshipmen, with the Midd1es last victory coming in 1963 when a man named Staubach led his squad to a 35-14 win. Since then, the Irish have won 22 straight, the longest win streak vs. an opponent in their history. 
Notre Dame looks to continue the streak when it travels to Baltimore to­morrow. As is standard, Navy will host the game at a stadium other than Navy­Marine Corps Memorial Stadium in An­napolis. Navy discovered the drawing power of Notre Dame way back in 1927 when the two schools first played in Bal­timore. other games have been played in Cleveland, Philadelphia and Giants Stadium in New Jersey. A sell-out crowd of 60,194 is expected at Memorial Stadium, twice the number that fills Navy's own field. 
The 3-4 Midshipmen have been on both sides of lopsided scores this season, racking up wins of 41-0 over Lehigh and 45-0 over Dartmouth. On the other hand, Navy has lost 40-6 to Air Force, 52-29 to Indiana and last week Pitt rolled to a 52-14 over the Middies. 
Notre Dame (2-4) has lost its share of heartbreakers, but its two victories have come easily. Still Irish head coach Lou Holtz isn't taking the Midshipmen lightly. 
''Any time you play an academy,'' says Holtz "You better take your chin straps, pads and everything else be­cause they do play well. I have a lot of respect for Navy, particularly when you watch them on film. They are a very veteran football team." 
Navy's offense vs. 
Notre Dame's defense 
What do you do when your team loses college football's all-time all-purpose yardage leader? If you're Navy head coach Gary Tranquill, you simply find a back that's almost as good. While Chuck Smith might never require the Navy to bend its rules to allow him to play in the NFL, he is currently the fourth-leading ground gainer in the na­tion with an average of 125.2 yards a game. Smith is also ranked third in all­purpose running with an average of 

182.7 yards per contest. All told, the 5­10, 196-pound junior has gained 877 yards rushing while scoring 10 touch­downs. 
"Smith possesses three things that all good running backs really have," Holtz says of the Navy tailback. "No.1, he ued. "He runs with good body lean. He's always going forward. He has the abil­ity to change directions and good bal­ance." 
Besides having a good offensive line, Navy uses variable sets and formations to disguise the way Smith will get the ball, making him all the more danger­ous to Holtz. 
"They utilize him in an awful lot of dif­ferent manners. They change sets, and they change formations. You can never really zero in on him. You never know 

has very good eyes. He can see the whole line of scrimmage. He's apt to run off guard and then bend it all the way back behind the defensive end if everybody doesn't keep in a relative position. He may start up at one place and end anywhere. There's a great cor­relation between being a great runner and having great peripheral vision. 
"The second thing he has is very, very good quickness. From a standing start to a full speed he's probably as quick as anybody we will play against. 
"The third thing he has is awful good balance and body lean," Holtz contin­exactly what they are really going to do." 
But there is some good news for the Irish as far as Smith is concerned. Last week against Pittsburgh he pulled a hamstring and is currently listed as questionable for tomorrow's game. If Smith can't play, his replacement will be Paul Parker who has rushed for 116 yards on 19 carries. 
Navy will be going with Bob Misch at quarterback instead of Bill Byrne. Tranquill has been concerned with Byrne's tendency to throw intercep­tions in pressure situations and has decided the time has come for a change. 
Misch, a senior, has completed 11 of his 35 attempts for 124 yards, one touch­down and four interceptions this season. 
Byrne, the brother of Irish special teamer and back-up quarterback Tom Byrne, is the holder of 12 Naval Academy passing records, but this season he's thrown 10 interceptions to go with seven touchdowns and 1,109 yards while hitting 89-of-170 attempts. 
As if Smith wasn't enough of a threat on the ground, he's also Navy's leading receiver with 24 catches for 267 yards and two scores. Tight end John Sniffen has caught 17 for 189 yards. Split end Troy Saunders is a deep threat with 14 receptions for 227 yards and three touchdowns. 
When the Irish defense takes the field it will try to keep several streaks alive. The Irish have allowed no scores in three quarters, no touchdowns in five quarters, no touchdown passes in nine quarters and one rushing score in the last 13 periods. 
The Irish are allowing 119 yards on the ground to the opposition. If the Irish can shut down Navy the way they did Air Force (holding the Falcons to just 186 yards rushing), it could be a long and frustrating day for the Midship­men. The Middies, however, piled up 388 yards against Pitt, a team· which gave the Irish fits three weeks ago. 
Mike Kovaleski continues to lead Irish tacklers with 53, and Wally Kleine has 45, including six for losses totaling 11 yards. George Streeter should get the starting nod again at strong safety after making eight tackles (three for losses) and forcing a fumble against Air Force. 
Navy's defense vs. Notre Dame's offense 
On one hand, the Midshipmen are giving up a lot of points. But all those points obsure the fact that in reality, Navy's defense is pretty solid, espe­cially against the run where the Middies only allow 120 yards per game which ranks them 30th in the nation. 
"I don't look at the number of points given up by a defense," Holtz said. "I 
see NAVY, page 3 
Each week, the Observer s~rts staff, a random student 

PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS
p1cked by the sports editor and some well-known figure in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each person does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick 








Marty Burns Andrea LaFreniere Mike Szymanski Marty Strasen Dennis Corrigan Mike Bobinski Steve Gallothe winner of a given game. 
The person must pick the win­Asst. Sports Editor SMC Sports Editor Sports Writer Asst. Sports Editor Sports Editor Guest Celebrity Random Student 
ner and give the underdog 46-37-1 41-42-1 41-42-1 40-43-1 33-50-1 38-35-1 37-46-1 
.554 .494 .494 .482 .398 .458 .446
points. Home team is in CAPS. 

(last week: 10-4-0) (last week : 9-5-0) (last week:~) (last week: 10-4-0) (last week:~) (last week : 9-5-0) (last week : 9-6-0) 
N.C. STATE overS. Carolina by 3 Gamecocks Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Wolfpack Penn State over W. VIRGINIA by 19.5 Mountaineers Nittany Lions Nittany Lions Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers Mountaineers ARKANSAS over Rice by 27 Razor backs Razor backs Razor backs Razor backs Owls Razor backs Razor backs IOWA over Ohio State by 3.5 Haw keyes Haw keyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Haw keyes Hawkeyes Buckeyes Alabama over MISSISSIPPI ST. by 14 Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Crimson Tide Bulldogs Bulldogs Crimson Tide NEBRASKA over Kansas St. by 39.5 Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Cornhuskers Wildcats Cornhuskers Wildcats Oklahoma over KANSAS by 41 Jayhawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Jayhawks Texas A&M over SO. METHODIST by 4 Mustangs Aggies Mustangs Mustangs Mustangs Aggies Aggies MIAMI (FLA.) over Florida St. by 13 Seminoles Hurricanes Hurricanes Hurricanes Seminoles Hurricanes Hurricanes
..-
Ucla over OREGON STATE by 18 Bruins Beavers Beavers Beavers Bruins Beavers Bruins LSU over Mississippi by 12 Rebels Tigers Tigers Rebels Rebels Tigers Rebels ARIZONA over Southern Cal by 5 Trojans Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Wildcats Trojans Trojans ARIZONA ST. over Washington by 1.5 Sun Devils Huskies Sun Devils Huskies Sun Devils Sun Devils Huskies Notre Dame over NAVY by 20.5 Midshipmen Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish Irish 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 3 

No place like home 

Freshman Scott Sullivan sits at his desk in housing to many freshmen awaiting place­the study lounge on the third floor of Flanner ment in conventional dorm rooms. See story Hall. The study lounges serve as temporary below. 

45 freshmen still in study lounges 
By JULIE PALAMARO Staff Reporter 
Study lounges in Grace, Flanner, and Sorin Halls are still home to 45 freshmen. 
Evelyn Reinebold, director of student residences, said she has no definite idea when the freshmen will be placed in other quarters. She added that the majority of them will have "real" rooms by second semester. At the beginning of the year, there were more than 80 freshmen living in study lounges Reinebold said. Many of them have been moved to various dorms, in­cluding Alumni, Fisher and Zahm. 
Scott Sullivan, who lives in a study lounge in Flanner Hall said, "It's a big room--good for parties." Yet living in a study lounge does have draw­backs. "It's isolated from the other rooms. We don't have a section. We have to walk through the lobby for every­thing, even to go take a shower." 
Paul Hart, who also resides in a study lounge in Flanner Hall, said, "The room itself finally feels like home, but living in a study lounge forces you to miss a lot of dorm life." 
Greg Delaune, who lives in a study lounge in Grace Hall, said his biggest worry is having to leave Grace. He wants to stay in Grace but the chances of that are slim. Ac­cording to Reinebold, where and with whom the freshmen would like to live is taken into consideration during the relocation process. The housing office cannot guaran­tee that these requests will be fufilled because rooms open up randomly. 


Reinebold said she has not had any conflicts with parents of students who are subjected to study lounge life. She said, "People have been very cooperative. And the fresh­men have been very good about the whole thing." 
In order to prevent this housing problem from occur­ing again, it has been sugges­ted that a lottery should be held to move upperclassmen off campus. Freshmen are guaranteed housing but up­perclassmen are not. Yet the University rarely, if ever, forces students off campus in order to make room for in­coming freshmen. 
In January, the 45 freshmen who presently reside in study lounges should be in "real" rooms, according to Reinebold. 

Co111puServe Has Heard About Notre Dante Students. • • 
...And We Want To Talk To You. 
CompuServe looks for people like you. Ambitious. Competent. Conscientious. And we know Notre Dame is a good place to find them. So we're coming to campus just to talk to you. 
CompuServe Reception Thursday, November 6 
7:00 p.m. -9:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
CompuServe provides business information services to over half of the FO~TUNE 500 through branch offices nationwide. We seek Marketing Tramees to carry MBA, CAPP, Business and MIS degrees to our summer training program on information service products, strategic marketing and sales methods. 
Visit our CompuServe associates a..t Morris Inn next Thursday, contact your oareer placement office for more information, or send us a resume. 

CompuServe 
5000 Arlington Centre Blvd. P.O. Box 20212 C<?lumbus, OH 43220 
SMC students to film memories for yearbook 
By DIANE SCHROEDER 
Staff Reporter 

Special moments throughout the 1986-87 school year are being preserved with the help of one video camera and three entrepeneurs at Saint Mary's College. 
Senior Michelle Coleman came up with the idea for a video yearbook over the sum­mer. 
"I wanted to provide some­thing for our class to look back on, to laugh and remember the good times," said Coleman. 
Together with seniors Lori Lohman and Karyn Ruesch, Coleman founded the Special Moments Collection corporation. Their objective is to produce at least 100 two-hour video taped yearbooks. 
The video will be comprised of a wide variety of senior ac­tivities from both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame cam­puses. Beginning with Senior Disorientation week, the video will also include interviews with College President William Hickey and University Presi­dent Father Theodore Res­burgh. A fourth generation Saint Mary's student and a third generation Notre Dame student are also scheduled to be interviewed. 
The· tape will feature most home football games, the senior trip to Jamaica as well as events which may occur off­campus. Lohman said there may also be a open forum seg­ment consisting of student leaders from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame discussing this year's senior class. 
"We'd like to cover some off campus parties, evenings at Senior Bar, and other events," Lohman added. "Let us know when something is happening and we'll cover it!" 
Some students may have already noticed the video crew roaming the campuses for in­teresting shots. Others may not even be aware of what the cor­poration is doing. 
"We're trying to let everyone know what we're up to," said Ruesch. "Since we don't know every senior, our biggest task will be to get a fair represen­tation of the class." 
The corporation is sending out letters to all hall presidents 
to inform their sections of their 
project. Letters are also being 
sent home to all seniors and 
their parents to let them know 
that videos will be on sale 
during graduation weekend for 
$47.50 each. 
"Our goal is to reach 75 per­cent of the class and include them in the video," said Ruesch. "We use a class list to keep track of how many people have been included along the way." 
Coleman, Lohman and Ruesch are handling most of the project themselves, from the business aspect to the ac­tual taping. They will, however, hire someone to do the final editing, which will be partially put to music. 
"By March we should have 5-6 hours of video to work with," said Coleman. "It will be tough to cut it all down into a two-hour tape." 
According to the group, they have already covered a wide variety of events. 
"But we do need more funny things," added Ruesch. "We've already got so many 'hi Mom's' that we may do a 'hi Mom!' segment!'' 
Special Moments Collection has the support of both ad­ministrations and both Offices of Student Activities. Before the corporation began produc­tion, they had to first submit a written proposal explaining their objectives. The project was approved by both schools but they are an independent corporation and receive no fin­ancial aid from the schools. 
"The faculties and staffs of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have both been very suppor­tive," said Lohman. "They have shown a lot of interest and are willing to help us out in other ways." 
Coleman and her partners can earn three business credits after giving a formal presenta­tion of their project. 
The corporation hopes to do better than breaking even after sales of the video in May. Each member put up $100 capital to cover immediate expenses. Al­though they intend to produce only 100 video tapes, Coleman expects the demand to be much 
gr~ater. 

Gorbachev plans first visit to Latin American countries 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev is planning to visit Latin America, apparently in an at­tempt to penetrate peacefully an area where the United States has long been the domi­nant influence, administration officials say. 
The Soviet Communist Party General Secretary plans to visit Cuba, Moscow's closest ally in the hemisphere, and also is expected to become the first Soviet leader ever to travel to Mexico, Argentina and Brazil, the officials said. The trip, tentatively set for next spring, may include other South Amer­ican countries as well. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze visited Mexico City three weeks ago and laid the groundwork for the Soviet-Mexican summit, accor­ding to the officials, who in­sisted on anonymity. 
Some officials described the prospective visit to Mexico as a normal development in rela­tions between the two countries. They said Mexico has long been interested in ex­panding its diplomatic horizons and that three previous Mexican presidents have visited Moscow. 
The officials added that Shevrardnadze and his Mexican hosts seemed intent on not saying anything that could be construed as hostile to the United States. 
Other officials, however, said they were concerned that the Shevardnadze talks and the prospective visit by Gorbachev raises the possibility of an ex­panded "Soviet foothold" in this hemisphere. 
A lon~-term Soviet goal in Mexico IS the opening of con­sular offices in northern Mexico, which would enable the Soviets to widen their intelligence-gathering capabi­lities in the southern United States, the officials said. 

-----~--------·--------~-~-~------~-~-­
The Observer 

Religion 
continued from page 1 
than school prayer, future gov­ernment oolicy on that issue still is difficult to predict. 
"If the state may neither ad­vance nor inhibit religion, as the Supreme Court ar~ed in 1963, no clear policy is likely to emerge," she said. 
In 1962 and 1963, ~he Supreme Court ruled that state­sponsored religious practices such as daily Bible readin~s were unconstitutional in pubhc schools because they violated the premise that government should hold a neutral position. 
Abortion stands out as the public issue most directly iden­tified with the Catholic Church, Boggs said. · 
She cited the Hyde Amend­ment, which forbids the use of Medicaid payments for abor­tion, as the most successful anti-abortion legislation to date. 
"Surely, the churches and the religious organizations as well as the scientific commu­nity members have the obliga­tion to draw moral parameters around the use of these scien­tific and technological mar­vels," she said. 
Boggs said she is one of the many political officials who "seek to preserve and enhance a religious component in public life generally." 
For example, she said Congress opens its daily ses­sions with prayers, and the marshall of the Supreme Court ritually cries out for God to save 'this honorable Court.' 
The representative said she watches the role of political 'religious rightists' with inter­est. "I have no problem with their involvement," she said. 
"And I have no problem with the modern television evan­gelists," she added. "In an ecumenical outreach in today's pluralistic society, we must ad­mit that their ministries have important roles to play." 
She said she does become concerned, however, when in­fluential religious leaders be­come too closely involved in the political outlooks of their fol­lowers. 
"I do become concerned when religious leaders begin telling their congregations that political leaders are morally beyond the pale because of their beliefs or," she added, "begin instructing their flock on how God wants them to vote for one candidate or another." 
The Notre Dame theology de­partment sponsored Boggs' lecture as part of its continuing series on religion and politics. 

r 
PAC&SHIP 
Balloon Bouquets from $5 and up 
delivery available Emery, Pony & 
Q
UPS Shipping 

r 
Dry Cleaners ~ Stamps & Photo ProceBII. f 277-7748 r 109 Dixie Way North 
' 
,t 
r 
[__ 


-~-­
Cadets: Racial incident not representative of Citadel 
Associated Press white cadets agree the hazing 
doesn't reflect the racial atmo­
CHARLESTON, S.C.-Like a sphere at the state military col­scene from "The Lords of Dis­lege. cipline," five white Citadel ·~I don't think there are any cadets dressed in sheets and tensions," said Craig Burgess, towels entered the room of a a 21-year-old senior from Lake black cadet, shouted City, S.C., and one of 126 blacks obscenities and left a burned in the college's 1,960-member paper cross behind. corps of cadets. 
"A lot of the corps is hostile 
While last week's incident to the press because they think sent shock waves through the everything is being over­storied campus, both black and drawn," he said. 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

put their request in writing. The letter also states that any freshman or sophomore who is financially independent may request, also in writing, that deficiency notices not be sent to her parents. 
Parents and students received the same letter but the one sent home to the parents had a detachable response sheet for parent reaction. 
Marcy said it is still too early to tell how parents will respond but expects most parents will not want to receive the notices. 
Originally, the new policy was to include sophomores, juniors and seniors. Marcy said sophomores tend to have un­realistic expectations about their majors and may need the warning that a deficiency notice serves. The policy will be re-evaluated after a few years, to assess any problems. 
So far, Marcy said, there has been no student response to the letter. 
Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 4 
~gentsremnemnbered 
Attorney General Edwin Meese, center, pauses with FBI Director William Webster, right, and former FBI Agent Stephen Sziarto, during a Special Agent Memorial Service in Washington on Wed­nesday. 


The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 5 

INTERESTED IN RESERVING OR PERFORMING IN THEODORE'S CONTACT Martine Beamon 283-2922 Reservations Manager or Tom Utter 283-4245 Programming Director 

COME TAKE A LOOK 
OPEN BY GROUP

MON TUES 
RESERVATION ONLY 

WED-THURS 8:oo pm -1,oo am FRI-SAT 8:oo pm -3:oo am 
SUN 12:00 noon-6:00pm 
283-CLUB 

FINALLY I 

I I 

a little diversion under the dome! 
THEODORE'S 
"the ~ entertainment experience ..." 
GRAND OPENING TONIGHT, OCT 31 2nd floor Iafortune 8:00 P.M. • 3:00 A.M. 

and more ... 
,_ 

Grand Prize: Trip for 2 to USC ! All expenses on us! drawing at 1:00 A.M. (must be present to win) 
Theodore's welcomes our sponsors: Coca Cola and Musicland of University Park Mall 
··--~~ --~--~--~----------~-----...-----~--~ 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 6 
Former RASTA members make plans despite ND ban 
By CLIFF STEVENS year. 

Senior Staff Reporter Evers said the lack of an op­
portunity for former members 
Despite the Office of Student to meet with Tyson had led to Affairs' rejection of RASTA's the "completely unjust" deci­appeal for reinstatement, sion. former members refuse to ac­"If I only had the chance to cept the decision as the end of meet with the man, he could their group or its plans for this explain what he means in the year, according to Sean Evers, letter," said Evers, referring former co-leader of the group. to Tyson's charges that RASTA 
Although the office's rejec­also regularly failed to comply tion letter indicated an appeal with Student Activities rules on could be submitted for the 1987-organizational and fiscal 88 academic year, Evers said matters-charges that Evers former members would imme­said were unfounded. diately formulate and carry out Evers said several attempts plans to keep the group's goals to talk to Tyson ended with alive this year. Tyson's secretary explaining 
''It will be something decided he would not be free for a this week and put into effect couple of weeks. this week," said Evers. "They Tyson's secretary said he haven't heard the last of us yet, was in meetings and unavail­that's all I'll say." able for comment Thursday. 
Evers said he would try to She said Tyson was busy pre­speak with Father David paring for the Board of Trus­Tyson, vice president for stu­tees meeting to be held Nov.14. dent affairs, to present the case Former group members will for the group's reinstatement continue spreading the mes­in person, their appeal by letter sage that people are starving having been unsuccessful. in Africa, said Evers. 
Rally Against Starvation "Maybe we won't have the 
' 

(RASTA) was banned by the luxury of Notre Dame University for the presence of facilities," he said, "but we'll alcohol and drug use at an do what we can to keep themes­event held by the group last sage alive." 
Hasenfus to respond to Nic,araguan conspiracy charges 
Associated Press him. eral Rodrigo Reyes asked that plane shot down Oct. 5 over Canales, the soldier who 
Spokeswoman Thelma Hasenfus be brought before the southern Nicaragua. He was brought down the aircraft with 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua-A Sahnas said Hasenfus also tribunal, "the sooner the bet­captured the next day and a missile, will testify before the spokeswoman for the revolu­would have a chance to exam­ter." Hasenfus previously ap­faces 30 years in prison if con­tribunal on Saturday. Next tionary tribunal trying Eugene ine the evidence against him peared before the court on Oct. victed. Hasenfus has said the week it will hear from military Hasenfus said Thursday that when he appears in court 20, when the charges against C-123 cargo plane was carrying and Interior Ministry officials, the captured American would today. him were read. small arms and ammunition to and on Tuesday will view a appear before the court to the U.S.-backed Contra rebels. recording of an American tele­respond to the terrorism and vision news program in which conspiracy charges against Salinas said Jose Fernando Hasenfus was interviewed. 

VP JUST AEROBICS 
continuedfrom page I 

Special 
Tanning
Nicaragua," he said. "It's a critical issue." College Bed 
Brauer said he wasn't sure why Ramirez-Mercado was Rates JOfor $30 scheduled to be in the United States in November. He added, 
however, "It's my impression Town & Country Shopping Center Call that (Nicaraguan officials) are Next to Goldblatts) 259-1465 putting together a tour," for the vice president. 
Tentative plans call for Ramirez-Mercado to lecture for about 45 minutes before answering questions from the audience, Brauer said. 
The ambassador to the United States is not scheduled to speak, he said. 
Brauer said the Nicaraguan officials are slated to arrive Nov. 21 and leave the next day. 
The campus group is not paying the Nicaraguan vice president to speak, and his lec­ture is open to the public free of charge, said Brauer. 
He said the group sponsored the lecture in "an attempt to further communication about Church and state relations within Nicaragua." 
Brauer said the conflict be­tween the two institutions is evidenced bf the government's expulsion o Bishop Pablo An­tonio Vega in July and its refusal to allow Monsignor Bis­marck Carballo to return to the country in June. 
In addition, Brauer said, "The pope was in Nicaragua and he was not very well treated. 
"There's also a couple of priests who are Nicaraguan of­ficials," he said. "They've had their own problems." 
-
\ 

.,
--------~~----------------~--------~.-------------~­
The Observer 

Congress's power at crossroad: professor 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Assistant News Editor 
With the United States moving into a post-industrial era, congressional power is at a crossroads in history at which its power may increase or decrease, according to Lawrence Dodd, professor of political science at the Univer­sity of Colorado. 
Dodd, the Director of the Center for the Study of America Politics at the Univer­sity of Colorado, spoke in the Hayes-Healy Center on Thursday. His lectue, entitled "Congress and the Post­Industrial Transformation" was part of the Exxon Distin­guished Visiting Scholar Se­ries. 
Dodd said that during the 1960s and 1970s, the country went through a "revolution" in. which high technology replaced traditional manufac­turing industries, creating a post-industrial society. 
Dodd, who has published two books about government, said in the past such revolutions in society have affected the career patterns of congress­men. 
"What we see in the past is that great periods of social up­heaval that are also connected with great economic and agenda shifts in society have tended to produce new kinds of calculations on the part of am­bitious politicians giving rise to new kinds of career patterns," Dodd said. 
He said these career patterns affect the institutions of gov­ernment. 
Dodd said he sees two possi­bilities for the future of Congress. "There is a dark side and a light side to all these projections," he said. 
On the dark side, Dodd said policy restraints will become more severe as natural re­sources diminish, the United States moves from a manufac­turing to a service economy and foreign competition in high-technology areas in­creases. 
In this high-tech society, Dodd said, politicians would have a better chance of re­election. "Ambitious politicians will continue to stay in Congress and a high-tech so­ciety will reinforce their ability because incumbents will have an increasing number of high­tech related resources," such as mass case work activity for constituents, mass mailing lists and mass transportation. 
He added that this will decrease the turnover in Congress, which will make power in Congress more frag­mented, thereby immobilizing the ability of Congress to act. 
On the "light side," Dodd said high technology, because of the increased role of the mass media, will make elec­tions more competitive. This would mean most congressmen will occupy office for fewer years and therefore not be able to gain as much power, he said. 
According to Dodd, the few congressmen who are able to remain in office for many years power and therefore make congress a powerful and effec­tive body. 
Dodd said he sees the changes taking place today as part of a historical process of political change that has oc­curred in the United States and other countries. 


GmPuckett HERMANS G~~
&TheUnionGap HERMRS 
NOVEMBER 11, 7:30 P. • NOTRE DAME ACC 
Reserved Tickets: $14.00 Ticket sale for Notre Dame & St. Mary's Students will take place t.lis monday 9:00AM at the ticket windows located at gate 3 of the A.C.C. [Fieldhouse Dome). Llmt of four[4) tickets per student VALID STUDENT J.D. REQUIRED. No nne may form before 6:0lJ AM. [Ticket sale for the public will take place at 10 of the A.C.C. -Arena Dome] 


Abdnor looks on. The Jackalope, South Dakotan 
legend holds, is a cross between an antelope 
and a jackrabbit. 
Vatican condemns pro-gay views 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY-The Vatican instructed bishops Thursday to stamp out pro­homosexual views within the Roman Catholic church and op­pose any attempt to condone homosexuality through legisla­tion or other means. 
In a letter to the bishops ap­proved by Pope John Paul II, it accused pro-homosexual groups of "deceitful propaganda" and trying to gain a foothold in the church, which has 810 million followers. 
"Increasing numbers of people, even within the church, are bringing enormous pres­sure to bear on the church to accept the homosexual condi­tion as though it were not dis­ordered and to condone homosexual activity," it said. 
The Vatican told the bishops and priests not to support or­ganizations that "seek to un­dermine the teaching of the church (on homosexuality), which are ambiguous about it, or which neglect it entirely.'' 
The 15-page letter was dated Oct. 1 and made public Thursday. It was drawn up by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, the watchdog of doctrinal devia­tion headed by West German­born Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger. 
He said the letter was being sent because the controversy about homosexuality "even in Catholic circles" has become a matter of "sufficiently grave and widespread importance.'' 
An Italian homosexual ri~hts group named Fuori (Outside) issued a statement calling the church document "just a futile attempt to force discrimination by those who, perhaps because of love based on true faith, have discovered tolerance." 
In its instructions, Ratzinger's agency reiterated the Vatican position that homosexual acts are sins. "An overly benign interpretation" has been given to the homosexual condition, which "must be seen as an objective disorder," it asserted. 
Prelates in some countries, including the United States, have struggled with govern­ment authorities over homosexual rights. 

CapSUle tamperer sentenced to 27 years 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla.-A man was sentenced Thursday to 27 years in prison for putting rat poison in over-the-counter drugs to make money in the stock op­tions market. 
Edward Marks had pleaded guilty Aug. 26 to putting the poison in Contac, Dietac and Teldrin medications produced by SmithKline Beckman of Philadelphia. 
He admitted to anonymously calling police and news organ­izations to tell them of the tam­pering, with the intention of making the price of the compa­ny's stock plunge. 
"Through your utter dis­regard you have had a tremen­dous impact on consumer con­fidence in medicines," said 

U.S. district Judge Patricia Fawsett. "You and you alone are responsible for your ac­tions." 
She said the scheme had cost SmithKline $41 million, with only $25 million of that paid by the company's insurers. 
Because of the size of the amount, however, she did not ask for restitution, assessing him instead only the manda­tory $450 for court costs. 
Marks, who faced a maxi­mum 54 years in prison, had asked Fawsett for mercy and was "very disappointed" by the sentence, said his court­appointed attorney, Jay Stevens. 
"We were hoping for a sen­tence that was much less," said Stevens, who had recom­mended five to eight years. He said because of the ~ty plea it would be very difficult to ap­peal the sentence. 


r 
View~_o l_._n______________
___ __t 
F_n_·d_a_y-.s.a.tu_r_d.ay_,_o_c_t_ob_e_r_3_1_-N_o_v_e_m_b_e_r_l_,-19·8-6,_-_p_a_g_e_s 
Considering fundamentalism requires open mind 
In recent years, fundamentalist religions have been experiencing a resurgence in America. Stressing fam­ily values, patriotism and anti­communism, preachers continuously 
Tony Lang 
guest column 
grace our televisions and newspapers. If you have ever watched cable televi­sion, you have undoubtedly seen the likes of Jerry Falwell or Jimmy Swag­gart bemoaning the fate of mankind. But lately these self-acclaimed spokes­
men of God have left the TV screen and entered into the arenas of education and politics. 
In the past week, a Tennessee judge ruled that a group of parents opposed to the readings of the local public school had the right to educate their children at home, rather than expose them to differing viewpoints. Various readings were desi~nated as offensive; "Mac­beth" for tts references to the occult, "The Wizard of Oz" for its portrayal of positive witchcraft, scientific readings on evolution, and "The Diary of Anne Frank" for its portrayal of all religions as equal. The fundamentalist tide has also swept into politics under the guise of presidential hopeful Pat Robertson. He has referred to himself as God's cho­sen candidate and he has supposedly communicated with Him on various is­sues. Robertson's campaign has caused splits in both the Republican party and the various fundamentalist sects. 

Along with much of the nation, I first reacted to these developments with dis­belief and outrage. Academic freedom and separation of church and state are two of the pillars upon which this country stands. However common sense and a little rational thought soon prevailed. At a university such as Notre Dame, I am constantly exposed to dif­ferent viewpoints, and not a single one of them is the absolute. Whether it be politics, religion, philosophy, or educa­tion, it is my duty to investigate every different ideology. The fundamentalist concept is just another one of these ideologies. If I were to heatedly con­demn it, I would be sinking to their level of closed-mindedness. The problem arises in that this is not just a political viewpoint to these people, but their belief in God. If someone were to start criticizing my Catholic beliefs, I might react with just as much vehemence as 
r P.O.BoxQ 
SDI can't stand in way of reduction proposals 
Dear Editor: 
For a moment, the world blinked in disbelief. On the negotiating table, in Reykjavik, Iceland, was an unprece­dented Soviet proposal designed for bilateral nuclear disarmament. Mter considerable exchange between Presi­dent Reagan and General Secretary Gorbachev, our president rejected this proposal on the grounds that his Stra­tegic Defense Initiative (SDD was not negotiable. 
One has to wonder if building SDI is more important to the administration than meaningful arms control. Never had both sides considered such sweep­ing reductions as those proposed. All Soviet and U.S. missiles would be removed from Europe. The number of Soviet and U.S. strategic missiles would be cut by 50 percent. At the same time medium range missiles based in the U.S. and Soviet Asia would be cut to 100 per side, and phased out com­pletely by 1996. The Soviets have pro­posed this at a time when they have not tested any nuclear weapons for over 14 months. The only obstacle in the way was and still is an untested and un­proven program which extends the arms race into space. 
President Reagan claims the scien­tific community supports SDI. This is true only if we exclude the thousands of science and engineering faculty who have pledged not to participate in any 
Doonesbury 

Star Wars research. In fact, their pledge states that Star Wars is "ill­conceived, dangerous and will only serve to escalate tthe nuclear arms race." 
If we should continue to research and develop SDI for deployment within the next 10 years, the only possible Soviet response is to find an even better way to combat the proposed defense system. One simple response would be to build up their offensive arsenal to even greater numbers so that even a highly accurate defense system would still not be able to prevent the destruction of the United States. Further, SDI is de­signed solely to defend against land based intercontinental ballistic mis­siles. It would not provide defense against Soviet submarine launched missiles, bomber planes, or SS-20 mis­siles. This unacceptable approach to our defense and security would cost 
U.S. taxpayers up to $1 trillion over the next 10 years. 
Two months ago, the House passed genuine arms control measures to curb the Reagan Administration's furious and dangerous military buildup. In preparation for the summit, the presi­dent demanded that the House concede on all of these arms control measures. Late last week the House acceded to his demand. Why? Because our presi­dent wanted to enter the superpower negotiations with Congress united be­hind him. With his hands no longer tied by Congress, President Reagan still came home empty-handed. 
The Soviet proposal for bilateral nu­clear disarmament still stands. We can not in good conscience let SDI stand in the way of deep arms reductions. We must demand that President Reagan go back to the negotiating table this year and accept their offer. 
Anne M. WUkas The Great Peace March Alumna, Class of 1986 
Rambo mentality letter must have been a farce 
Dear Editor: 
Intelligent satire is often taken literally or otherwise misunderstood, and so I am concerned that some may have thought that Dean Waddick's recent Observer letter (0ct.29) was serious and on the level. If so, they will have arrived at the conclusion-­definitely facile and erroneous--that the Dean is some sort of Rambo, who really means to slur pacifists and war resisters as simple cowards. Of course, this can hardly be the case, and it should be clear to the perceptive and sensitive reader that Dean Waddick really intended to write a parody of the Rambo mentality. 
Anyone who doubts this need only look again, with an eye for pathos, at Dean Waddick's brilliant and provoca­tive, but obviously farcical, compari­son of ROTC with the Peace Corps and the Holy Cross Associates. He might indeed have gone even further in this 
Garry Trudeau 

I 015AG/?/Z. I 7H!Nk HOI4IAl30/JT, 
I 
''PAVf3NPOI<T. I VE GOT 7lJ

5TlJOPING TO CONQU&R NJTEVEN 7RAC£ RJJN. FfJ.Y 7H/5NIC&80YFOR
It; 0/SGRACERJL.. ITS 
NOT 7HE /JJ4.YI WA5 
HI~ TIME., Wil-L.

8FOIJ6HTUP' 
I 
YOU,OEAR~ 
I 

the fundamentalists are now. 
Therefore in criticizing these groups, I am in fact criticizing their very reason for life on earth. When approaching re­ligion, one must tread very lightly. Emotion should not enter into religious arguments, and it is important to listen to the other side and argue against their points rationally. The fundamentalist movement may be strong now, but it will pass soon enough. Another religion will come and replace it, over which there will be numerous controversies. Even our Catholic faith may fade away someday. But no matter what the reli­gion, one must keep an open mind in discussing it and remember this is a person's faith that is being attacked. 
Tony Lang is in the Freshman Year of Studies. 
amusing vein, and spoken of our "napalm aid" to Southeast Asia, or of our assistance to the citizens of Dres­den in the area of "population control"; but, at a time when President Reagan refers to supermissiles as peacekeepers and Father Hesburgh supports South Mrican investment as the Christian thing to do, perhaps it is well enough to leave the device of ironic euphemism to the accomplished masters. 
Equally worthy of praise was Dean Waddick's reference to praying in front of the Clarke Memorial, in preference to doing so before a memorial to cowards. This was a masterful touch and a very effective spoof of the phe­nomenon of American civil religion; indeed, this one comment could be re­garded as an adequate summary of the research of Richey, Bellah and others. Again, one might have expected the remark to be rounded out a bit, with the customary references to pansies and quiche-eaters or with some sort of lament about the demise of John Wayne. But then, these would have been the obvious remarks to attribute to those whom Dean Waddick wishes to imitate and lampoon, and under­statement is more thought-provoking in the long run. 
To sum up, it seems that in Dean Waddick we have another Swift or Horace, and I am sure I speak for many others in lauding his penetrating wit. 
Charles R. Hohenstein Graduate Student 
Campus quote 

Depreciation deduction on in­come tax return: "Us senior citizens treat that like our sexuali­ty. You either use it or lose it." 
Ray M. Powell Professor ofAccountancy OctoberS, 1986 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by tWe students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 


~---------------~-----------~~--~~ 
Accent 
Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 9 
• • • And things that go bump in the night 
"Ghost: the outward and can cause, WW II broke out. fulfilled, and now, according to already been written as part of Christians are free to believe vislb.e sign of an Inward Every week at the movies, we saw the Bible, we are In the final days God's plan, or that the expiration this stuff If they want to. Why fear, "according to the definition the news reels of the bombs fal­preceding Armageddon. Secular date of the universe has been should the preachers be so glad by Ambrose Bierce In The Devil's ling on Europe, and we were newspapers, like The New York handed down In an eternal to see Jesus come back? He's Dictionary. warned that It could happen Times, have articles speculating decree. Fear-mongering has planning, they say, to roast most 
"Ghosts were created when the here. that John Paul II, after reading been going on fro decades. of the human race In an everlast­
first man woke In the night," On~ of the four freedoms the the letter of Sister Lucy which In 1941, the preachers Ing holocaust. How could you contains the Fatima secret, Is ex­promised us that the Second believe In a theology that makes pecting something too dreadful Coming was just around the cor­God too narrow-minded and to talk about to happen before ner; once, at Baptist prayer meet­fiendish to understand the New
Father Robert Griffin 
the year 2, 000; that's why he Is Ing, old Mrs. Smith told us that Testament doctrines? I hope that trying to purify the Church by according to her dreams, tonight John Paul Isn't serving theLetters to a Lonely God 
coming down hard on the dissi­was the night. The Lord would Church as Its chief shepherd ac­dents. be standing over us on a cloud cording to a hidden agenda He 
Catholics, who claim Our Lady ofglory before the morlng coffee got from Fatima. wrote J.M. Barrie, the creator of war was being fought for was has appeared to visionaries In was perked. We heard as semi­I'm a loyal son of Mary, the Peter Pan. On Halloween, be­freedom from fear. Yet all my Italy and Yugoslavia In recent narians that a Bavarian mystic Mother of the Church; but those 
tween the dusk and the daylight, adult life, I have seen people years, point out that whe has had foretold that In 1954, the private revelations attributed to the graves give up their ghosts neurotic-with fear from dreading confirmed the message of Communists would be hanging her are charmless formulas lack­and disembodied spirits walk the the unthinkable: what would hap­Fatima: God Is fed up with sin In priests from the lamppost In Ing style and grace. Heavenly land, as the children can tell you. pen to the country Ifall the young the world, and He's ready to un­Central Park. According to the vi­language has the Jilt of truth In As the darkness falls, grown­people became addicted to leash His punishments, possibly sions of Malachy and It that lifts the heart and mind to 
ups say a prayer that the children dope? through an armed confrontation Nostradamus, the Curch should God, as the Gospels shvw. Jove: "From ghostles and Once the Germans were with the Russians. have run out of popes several Amateur saints can't make It up ghoulles and three-legged defeated, we started keeping a Aside from religion, we hear pontificates ago. as they go along, even Ifthey are beasties and things that go frightened eye on Russia. predictions from respected fig­great poets like Milton, who bump In the night, good Lork, Americans, concerned about nu­ures In the peace movement, Now the doom-sayers are made his Saviour sound pedan­deliver usl" The prayer has noth­clear war, built bomb shelters. warning us that the hands of the gearing up for the mlllenlum. tic. Ing to do with trick-and-treat, but In 1962, we had the Cuban mis­doomsday clock are almost at Since the day Roosevelt told us The message I get from the children don't care: fear, when sile crisis to keep us on edge. In the midnight hour; and If we we had nothing to fear but fear private revelations Is that you It's only make-believe, is a deli­196.3, when Kennedy was assas­don't turn them back soon, the Itself, the world has moved don't reap grapes from sowing cious experience, and the best sinated, we wondered If anarchy nuclear rain will start falling. Sur­through depressions, wars and thistles; even the pagans could goblins exist mostly In the mind. was about to break loose. In the vivalists, we read, are already the rumors of war, revolutions, have guessed that much about That way, the children can laugh days of the Black Panthers, we hiding In remote places In the epedemic, famines, truth. I love St. Bernadette, the at themselves the next morning were afraid of what the Black mountains, prepared against earthquakes, and genocides. Poor little peasant girl who when they see the masks and anger In the country was ledlng Impossible odds to try to ride out The suffering from this ongoing wouldn't let the cops or the cost~..omes of horror that made to. the nuclear winter. dance of dance has been a dress priests talk her out ofher visions; them shiver and run away as During the VIetnam years, rehearsal accorlng to the but Fatima gets silly. Why would though they had met vampires when students were brawling Mankind's worst nightmares prophet of gloom: the handwrit­Christ's mother be playing "I've taking their evening walks. with the cops, and the deaths oc­seem to be converging on the Ing on the wall Is now announc­got a secret." with children In a 
curred at Kent State, we were same chilling conclusion: Ing the grand finale. Dies lrae Is meadow? 
In the heart of the coward, Hal­sickened by those street scenes, civilization Is about to take a at hand, when the physical fabric The psalm that helped Lon­loween happens anytime: the so remlnescent, we were told, of pratfall tha will please the gods of the firmament will bite the daon through the blitz In 1940 game of fear that an adult plays the bleeding and dying among of war. The world could end dust. goes like this: "You need not fear doesn't stop when the rooster's politically active German stu­before the century Is over, not The Halloween, at which God the terrors of night, the arrow crowing warns the bogeyman to dents in the Thirties, just before with a whimper, but with a bang will wear His mask as the aveng­that flies In the daytime, the I 
I
hide. In my childhood, F.D. the rise of Hitler. Believe it or that will knock the sun off Its Ing judge, Is at hand as an end plague that stalks In the dar, the 
I 
Roosevelt told the country that not, times like those were tough course. As history grinds to a to the ages, and sinners will have scourge that wreaks havoc In j the only thing we had to fear was to JIVe through, and people won­holt, shoud we again comfort apoclypses to frighten them In broad daylight. Though a I rear Itself. Thoreau's version Is dered if America was on its last ourselves with the reminder that place of ghosts. God plays hard thousand fall at your side, ten I only slightly different: "Nothing legs as a nation. we have nothing to fear but fear ball; He will use fire and thousand at your right hand, you I Is so much to be feared as fear." Itself? brimstone Instead ofsoap for His yourself will remain unscathed, I He probably borrowed the Idea Now, in 1086, the preachers Mind you, I don't take any of tricking and treating. His with this faithfulness for shield I 
I
from Montalgne: "The thing of warn us that as the second mll­this seriously; It's all guess work, fireworks will be as unexpected and buckler ... " 
I
which I have most fear Is fear." lenlum closes, we should be get­especially the rumors about the as a thief In the night, so that He Fatima couldn't hold a candle 
I
My generation grew up a world ting ready for the doomsdayday Pope. Any fool can forecast that can catch the losers off their to promised like these. Psalm 91 where the presence of fear was of the world which a disgusted the world could self-destruct If guard. Their spritual blindness . was my favorite prayer during j more obvious than the presence God has marked on his calendar. the nations keep lusting for wars. prevents them from seeing the WW II. I hope I will remember to 
I 
of tlod. Six years after FOR The fundamentalists say that all It's nonesense to say that tfle blood on the sun which shoul say It by heart on the night that I warned us of the harm that fear the Biblical prophecy has been scenarios of destruction have scorn the hell out of them. the world ends, If It ever does. I I 
l 

I I
New club's I 
I 
I j
opening slated I 
I for this evening l I 
I 
PATII TRIPATHI held at 1 a.m. and the winners schedule." I Features writer must be present to claim their O'Leary and Utter welcome I A little diversion under the awards. Muslcland and Coca suggestions from the student dome: the grand opening of Cola are sponsoring the event. body In order to accomodate l 
I
Theodore's promises to dazzle Theodore's has already everyone. "Our success Is going 
I
everyone tonight. planned a calendar to Include to rely on student Input. If no 
I
"There Is something for every­movie nights, a campus variety one says anything than nothing ­one," said Promotion Director, show, an lmprov comedy night, Is going to get done," said 
I 
Tara O'Leary. and nights when professional O'Leary. 
I 
The renovated second floor of bands will perform. On Mondays and Tuesdays I LaFortune Student Center now "We want to provide good solid Theodore's will be available to has a dance floor, a tewnty foot entertainment for the student groups by reservation only. television screen, three video body. Our success Is going to Weeekly, Theodore's will be open games, electronic darts, and a rely on student Input," said Pro­Wedenesdays and Thursdays 
-

video cassette recorder. gram Director Tom Utter. from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m., Fridays 
"Free food will be ~rved on "I am trying to set up some­and Saturdays from 8 p. m to .3 the opening night to give a thing dynamic such as profes­a.m., and Sundays noon to 6 sample of what will be served , " sional bands from Detroit. Min­p.m. said O'Leary. "Also, raffle will be neapolis, Chicago and the "Theodore's can be a study
!.'Iff:&\ 

drawn for free transportation and surrounding areas," said break, a place to get food If 
r<iii· 

lodging for two to the U.S.C. O'Leary. "Because Notre Dame someone misses dinner, or a game." has such a diverse population I place just to go dancing," said
The Observer/Margaret Mannion 

According to O'Leary the am trying to Introduce a bit of O'Leary. "It's very different. And 
A glimpse of the new undergraduate club, Theodore's. drawinA for the prizes will be variety Into our entertainment It will get better." 
r 
~--~~--­
The Observer 
Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 10 
Tribble faces more charges 

Sports Briefs -. . , · . 
The ND-SMC ski team will have a mandatory meeting Off-campus students who wish to play interhall hockey Monday ,_ Nov. 3, for for anyone interested in try-outs are reminded that the 20-man roster and proof of insurance 
or the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole. A $100 trip deposit will be collected at the meeting, which will be held in the LaFortune Little Theatre. For more information contact Kathy (4029) or Lisa (284-4415). -The Observer 
The ND Invitational Lacrosse Tournament, featuring teams from University of Chicago, Lake Forest, Grand Rapids, and Notre Dame, will be held this weekend. The schedule for Saturday is as follows: ND vs. Grand Rapids at 11 a.m., Lake Forest vs. Chicago at 12:30 p.m., Grand Rapids vs. Lake Forest at 2:30p.m., and Chicago vs. ND at 4 p.m .. The schedule for Sunday is as follows: ND vs. Lake Forest at 10 a.m., Chicago vs. Grand Rapids at 11:30 a.m., the consolation match at 1:30 p.m., and the cham­pionship match at 3 p.m .. All action will take place at Cartier Field. -The Observer · 
The ND rugby club will host Fort Knox in their final game of the season. The match starts a 1 p.m. on StepanField. -The Observer 

are due at the NVA offices Wednesday, Nov. 5. For more information contact Evan Farley (287-3920) or Phil Coghlin (234-2849). -The Observer 
Interhall football equi.,ment should be returned to Gate 9 of the Stadium accordmg to the following schedule. 
Monday, Nov. 3: 5:30-Off Campus; 6-Grace; 6:30-Dil­lon; 7-Keenan; 7:30-Alumni; 8-Cavanaugh, 8:30-Holy Cross. 
Tuesday, Nov. 4: 5:30-Pangborn; 6-Fisher; 6:30-St. Ed's; 7-Carroll; 7:30-loser of 1:00 game on Sunday; 8:00­loser of 2:00 game on Sunday. 
There is a late charge for a team per individual. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will take place Monday, Nov. 3, from 
7:15 to 8:30p.m. in the NVA office. The test is free, and participants should wear shorts and will be tested on a first-come, first-serve basis. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
UPPER MARLBORO, Md.­A prince George's County grand jury returned an indict­ment yesterday that contained additional charges against Brian Lee Tribble, the man ac­cused of providing the cocaine that killed basketball star Len Bias. 
The grand jury also returned a sealed indictment in connec­tion with the probe. According to law, the contents of that in­dictment cannot be revealed until the defendant has been ar­rested and served with the papers. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Cent~r, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fnday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Fnday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by maiL The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES  FOUND: Guy'a Swatch In D2 parking lot on 1~21-11. Call Mark at 4113 to claim.  ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX -513­111-11341 AFTER It NEED 1-1 GAS OR STD TIX FOR SMU  BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX .CAU TJ ·283-1888 I NEED 1 PENN ST GA. WlU PAY BIG  ON THIS ONE SPECIAL DAY AM I REMINDED OF THE IMMENSITY OF THE ATLANTIC AND THE TIME Dff. FERENCE WHERE MY DAYS ARE  HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY, JIM GALLAGHERIll Hllve you had -ugh ehote, or would you like another katchup one?  
TYPING AVAILABLE 217-4082 WordprocMalng-Typing  LOST-cLASS RINGIIIIII J.A.II 17 BLUE STONE WITH GOLO N.D. 1100.00 REWARD CALL JOE :10~101  AND PSU CALL PAUL 17158 FOOLISH MORTALS.•• The YOCKMONSTER neede 4 Pann State OAe and 4 atud. tlx to lure un­ 1$11 CAU TIM 3314. SMU l PENN ST. GA'a FOR SALE 277· 0281  YOUR NIGHTS. SURROUNDED BY STRANGERS WHOSE FOREIGN TONGUES REFLECT THEIR FOREIGN NATURE; I YEARN FOR YOUR FAMIUAR ANO GENTLE TOUCH.  Juat etey out of the puddlu at Five eo..,.,.. lhle tlmel One of the lut, but not leutl WE LOVE YOUIII K.  
272-11127 TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CAU DOLORES 277-1131.  FOR RENT  auepactlng human ucrtftce vlctlma to NDJ CAU 232-1471 to melle a dael whh the O.VIII ...THERE IS NO ESCAPEIII  NEED 2SMU STUD. TIX. CALL JANICE 272-11111  DESPITE THESE DIFFICULTIES, I REST ASSURED THAT NO OBSTACLE SHAU EVER KEEP US APART.••! LOVE YOUII HAPPY ONE YEAR AN­NIVERSARYII " GEORGE C.­ ITS COMINGIIIIIIII THIS YEAR'S MOST UNABASHED, UNINHIBITED, AND UNDENIABLE PARTY...  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. MRS. COKER, 233-7001.  CAU  Two room tumlehad apt. private en­trence utllltlee paid 2II-GISI morn­lnga.  NEED 8 SMU GA'S AND ONE STUD TIK CALL MIKE 3211 OR 3201  CASH lor 2-3 GA or Stud Tlx lor Pen­nat 2111  ANGERS FRANCE "  ITS A BALL. A BEAUX-ARTS BALL Now announcing the 1111  
.................................-<#..,.,..,...................... JAZZ, NEW WAVE, CLASSICAL, THE BEST STAFF IN THE WORLO, WSND RULES. (811d by the w.y -·re lining • lund drlw.) Nov 2 ... NOW doing typing In my home for 8111­den!L Call 232-1113. An.ntlon MAD-TOWN BOUND people going with the WCONSIN CLUIIIII Don't mlea the buel lla at the rneln circle at 3:11 on frlcMy to llgn lnaur­-...... The bue will ,..,. at 3::10 and ETA In Madleon Ia 7:41 CST ,_ the SE donna at Francee l Johnaon, Will ,_,. 1n1m Macllaon at 12 p.m. CST. Eat ~or Ole 1111 HEY CAPP MAJORS THE FOURTH CAPP DPMA MEETING WlU BE HELO TUE. NOV 4 AT7:00 pm IN 210 OSHAG THE SPEAKER WILL BE JUDITH RAOCLIFF Of DATA PROCESSING  Gueate coming lor game need place to atay? Sllwrtlroollllad-11-ldaat In Nllea. Clean, qulat, rMaoN~ble. 111­114-2323 evenlnga. 2 room efllclency private .ntrance utllltlee paid 2II-GISI mornlnga WANTED feclenll, State and Civil Service lObe now av..lable In your •-· for Info. caii(IOII) 1144-1133 Dept. 1311. want a rtcJe, buater? The belgemoblle Ia on the roed again, looking for RIDERS or a RIDE to PURDUE the day of NOVEMBER I, 1811. for more In­formation, or cleerer lnlorm8tlon cell Gertie, 214-1121. lntereeted In Tal Chi Chuan for '-lth call 277·7112 after 4:00 PM.  WANTED: 1 STUDENT PENN STATE TICKET CAU JAY 1221 Needed: Penn Stata t1x (atud. or GA) call Mike Melle .,,, NEED 2 GAa FOR PENN STATE. WILL· lNG TO MAKE GOOD DEAL CAU CHRIS AT 1711. I NEED 2 SIIU TIXII CAROLYN-3131 2 ND-SMU GA'a 4 SALE; CAU 112­731-2114 I NEED SMU l PENN ST GAa.272-1301 DESPERATELY .....lng Penn State tlcllata. I need GA'e andOr atudent tlckata. Help me out It you can I David at 234-3337 NEED 2 SMU TIX CAU JAY AT £2174  HELP NMd 2 SMU GA and 2 atudM!t tlckata or 4 GA'e. Call 1050 uk lor Bob DESPERATELY need SMU tiX-i:all Kavln-1102 Ni!'Eo--·:nc:i<m-···;;aii···ai:iii...oA:iii CAU 2l4-a2l OR 272-1111. i·="2"j;;;;~"8t;h;"(i:\:;"K;iiy"ii4: 44158 • .......u ...................................................... NMd 4 SMU Ux. Will pay top I I Call £3417 AIRUNE TICKET 1111 FOR SALE 1111 Bring friend In for SMU gamelll 10% off enywhere on Jat America by 1\114 -c.thy 213-32211 ,._ ....... HAVE 4 SMU GAS NEED 4 PENN ST GAS CAU CHIEF £1131  HENRY LEE SUMMER Tlckata available In the celler Octobar 31, 11111 12.00 HENRY LEE BUMMER STEPAN OCTOBER 31, 1111 8:00pm 12.00 Truat ua you wont ­another band thla good lor only two dollare. He juat llgnad a national contract and that rna~~ne the price a-up. .....SENIORS...SI!NIORS-• Trlcll-or­TIMI Golf OUting Tomorrow(FRI), T ... Of! from 12-2pm 13.00 per atudant .......CLASS Of 1111-ro-" '*-'SENIORS""'SENIORS-­IIaekatball nc~~et Campout 11ae1111 food, Drink, DJ all Nlte Sundey, at the ACC while we waltlll Digger wiH ba atopplng by In the morning, 8IICI he'a telklng ·Donutal -cLASS OF  Fall Edition of the BEAUX-ARTS BALL frlday,NoV81'11bar 7th. THEY ONLY COME OUT AT NIGHT PAT MURPHY-DJ: HAVE A GREAT II'DAY SUNDAY. FROM MEG R.E.M FANS We've got rere tunee and they're youre lor the price of -af.. bum. HMr "femme Fatale" "llanclw8gon" "White Tornado" "Voice of Harold" and mora. P11111 meny favorllee UVE. Moat atucllo quellty on a TDK ..eo tapa. Only 57 ahopplng daya till Chrletmaal Call the Hindu Love Oode at 2411 or 2150 and get them batvre wa run out. T Happy tteno-. Nice pareonal. I hope you elton a Jack o'lantem. YUk Yuk yUk. lluut REMINDER: URBAN PLUNGE ORIENATION WORKSHOP  
CONSULTANTIIINC. SUBJECT PREPARING A RESUME ALL CAPP STUDENTS ARE WELCOME I LOST/FOUND I  Are you lntereatad In earning up to 11.00 per hour and .,.,.. more. OocJ.. lather'e Pizza Ia looking lor part time drtvera. Aply In pareon at 12120 u. s. 31 N. FUU AND PART nME WAITRE88' NEEDED. MUST liE 21. APPLY AT SMITTY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 121  NEED I 8IIU TIX CAU JAY £2174 NEED ONE SMU TICKET -STUDENT OR GA .CAU 21115 NMd two SMU GA'a. Call Max at 213­ NEED :! SMU GA'S CAU 2211 I NEED 2 SMU GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 2742 HELP MEl I naed 3 tlckata lor the SMU game. ....._ cell Mike at 2787.  1117""""""" SI!NIOR SKI TRIPIII Slgn-upa will ba Nov 3-1 In Senior Cleaa Olllce 140 dapoelt, only •1211or two daya at lloyne Min. Datn:  SUNDAY NOV. 2 2:00-4:00 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM REMINDER: URBAN PLUNGE ORIENTATION WORKSHOP SUNDAY NOV. 2 2:00-4:00 UIIRARY AUDITORIUM  
LOST:  Ona  gold  necklace  with  3  NO MICHIGAN,IIOUTH BEND, IN 41101  SENIOR DAY Of REFLECTION  
channe ("Precloua, • a halt-heelt and a-).Of OREAT Hlltlmental valu. .. ....-.nl le available! PIMN call U.. at 2112, 211 Lyone.  WANTED: IIIUY JOEL CONCERT nx FOR Fri. Oct.31  NEED SMU GA'S AND STUDENT TX PAUL-2314  My brother and frlenda ..m to -ND ve. Penn State. I need 4 GA'S Call Pat £31811 NEED ONE SMU TICKET-STUDENT  with Fr. flntan Steele on 1\II 1n1m 12:30-I:OOpm at Bula Shed, acrou 1n1m P.E. on Juniper. P.....-.glatratton not naceuary.  REMINDER: URBAN PLUNGE ORIENTATION WORKSHOP SUNDAY NOV. 2  
o.rtl blue aoftball jllcUI-_,. frlcMy nlght(Oct.10111) lnlm Senior Bar. Deecrtpllon: The left cheet had "'lrenccan" and a patch •usc Softbell Ctwnplone" Alao a patch on the left and right ..__, "1at place" and "2nd place". " found pleue a.ld to: Br811dan McQuire 1211 Rolling Meadow Rd. Pltllburgh PA 11241  ean CHRIS at 214-1111 PLEASE HELP ME HAVE A HAPPY HALLOWEENII NEED RIDE TO IIAU STATE· TODAYIWIU SHAREI-£1272. FOR SALE  MEGA taUCKN are -'tlng the per­eon who will ull me 4 PENN ST GA'a for my family ao I cen ­home for chrfatmael eau Andy at 1243. NEED I PENN STATE GA'a CALL CHRIS AT 1713 NEEO 4 PENN ST GA'S CAU PAT 2034  OR GA Ill CAU ANITA 2l4-oiQI2 PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER l UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY IHN.  Senior Trip T ..tllrta call 3811 Happy lllrthdey, Saxy Wlah ·-there Love, F~. the lriCIMW, and the girl In Angera who lovee you vwy much. PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 101 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE.  2:Q0..4:00 LIBRARY AUDITORIUM REMINDER: URBAN PLUNGE ORIENTATION WORKSHOP SUNDAY NOV. 2 2:Q0..4:00 U8RARY AUDITORIUM  
-- LOST POCKET WATCH batvre the tw.k with lat-. fS angrewct on the becll. G-' ~value. Very ....,_~-Can 21N241. FOUND: Male claaa ring ('II) In Oehag. Initial• en-abed. Call 233-31024 to ldanllty. FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL TO IDENTIFY. 1412 Loat: A leather Halllnenn cMckbook co-and chKkbook left on a bench outalde Arcllle building friday .befvN bfwk. Plaue call Danlelle 2e4-l111. FOUND: CALCULATOR IN 224 CUS. HING. CALL DAN AT 1114.  TIRED Of CATCHING RIDES ? 74 VW llug For Sale Oave 277·1714 for ..,.: Apple lie, monochrome acr., and drlw. Good condition. 11110. Call Stwa 3211. FOR SALE •TRANSPORTATION CAR IN EXCEUENT CONDITION. NEW BATTERY, SHOCKS,MUFFLER,CUSTOM EXHAUST.GERMAN-IIUILT CAPRI WITH V-1 l LOTS Of POWER.CALL 232-1421 EVENING AIRLINE TICKETIIIO% OFF BY 1\114  HELPII HELPII I naed PENN STATE nxs. Help me ehow 11a nd Pe that my bra goa to the wrong achool. PENN ST. TIXS lor TODD at 1310 or 1308 I'm !laking you nicely • Plaue Mil me PSU tlx (atud. or QA) Call Michelle II. at 4170 BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS need atud. or GA tlx lor SMUll Lat my baCkwoocla buddiH -a gameI Call Deve at 3213 MOONSHINE to all who helpll  Thank You St. Jude DESPERATE TEXAN WlU DO AL· MOST ANYTHING FOR 2 SMU TICK­ETS. -8TU OR GA-CAU CAROLYN­aut URBAN PLUNGE DI!ADUNE IS TODAY. Claire V.H.: Do You SUII Hava That llloyfrlend? Remember, It don't meen a thing It you don't have that rlngll N.W.Y.T. LONDON CAWNG: FARLEY'S FINEST get paychedl Good luck In the playolfe. Whip Lyon• again; then mMII h 3 In a rowl Mlu U. from ENGLAND with love.  SI!U YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR II OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 1G-I::IO. 233­2342. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MARY WlWAMS 11111111 No w.y, Ufahltz, you're 201 No more apaclng out on the bathroom floor. "L.aeve me alonal" Where'a the muatard? How 'bout ehote and oreoe tonight? You're wild and cruy-ilnd wa luv ya, Marl lfeve a g-' _, The Oela of2D ,..fiiOER'N!ED'!o·:ra·ao:..;u:··;;fi ANYWHERE IN BETWEEN FOR THANKSGIVING. CALL MEUNDA 211· 47111  VOTE FOR BABE Of THE YEAR TJTJTJTJ lfeppy Birthday Aadl Lotaa love lnlm Laga In London. Mlu You! MOIRA DELKER-f You could have been a g-' Cambodian! Heppy Birthday Love the Rad Crou Votun­tae... DANCE! DANCE! DANCE! Council lor the Reterdad preNnt a HOUOWEEN DANCE Friday, Octobar 31 from 7:30 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. at the LOGAN CENTER  
.CATHY 213-32211  Mickey Gorbachav'e  boy Rlckay  le  
FOUND -ilmbrella In 201 Cuehlng. Call £1201 to claim. LOST: N.D. ClaH Rlng-lnltl..a TJM 'II lnalde Blue atone. Call nm 3248 -Reonrd It found. Loat: Oold Balko watch __..,. MIUnd So. Dining Hall Tuaeclay dln­narllma. " found, pleue call Shalla 272-3170.  TICKETS Malul aure my parenta PIIY aecond ... rnaewr tuition ao I can get out of thla pa.c.. Sail me 2 GAa for Penn State ao they can expartence ND football. Call Mark at 2338.  coming down lor the SMU game and neede a atuclent tlckat. In the name of o.tent., call Jack at 1711. BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE BUB IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO IIURST...PLEASE HELP ME...NEED 21 11.2 nx STUD OR QA WlU DO...PLEASI! CAU BONEHEAD AT 1241 OR 1312.  Thank You Agaln,St. Juda,lor ane-r­lng all my p,.yere. ATTENTION AU OFF-CAMPUS STU­DENTSII O.C. FORMAL THURS., NOV.I AT KNOLLWODD COUNTRY CLUB TIX 110COUPLE CAU RACE FOR INFO 234-01112 (FREE FOOD l DRINK!)  ................................................................ IIEAUXIIEAUXIIEAUXIIEAUXARTS BEAUX· IIEAUXARTSIIEAUXARTSARTS ARTSARTSARETSIIALLARTSBALL IIAU IIAU IIAUIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111111111111111111111 ................................................................ ATTN. Off-CAMPUS STUOENTSI O.C. NEWSLETTER NOW AVAILAIILI! IN LafORTUNE(OIIUD DESK)  HAPPY 11TH II-DAY NUIIII GLAD YOUR HERE AT SMCI LUV·YOUR FA­VORITE FECEI ................................................................ LIZ·DOO MARTUCCI Liz, we want to aleep with youl ·The lloya  

~---­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986, -page 11 

Tom Watson was upset by David Edwards in the first round of the Seiko Tucson Match Play Golf Championship yesterday. Details on the first round appear at right. 
Those students interested in volunteering dt The Shelter for the Homeless and have not already scheduled themselves to do so, need to contact one of the follow­ing immediately: 
Lynn Scott 259-5770 (7pm -11pm) United Religious Community 282-2397 (9am-4pm) John Gordon 283-1666 
Soft 
Contact~ 
Lenses $19.86 

Daily or Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to Call for an appointment today. the contact lenses you have You'll see better for less. Dr. always wanted at a price anyone Tavel's Premium Optical has can afford! For a limited time been caring for eyes for over 40 Dr. David Tavel has reduced the years with 32 locations in price of Softmatc daily or Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the extended wear contact lenses to care of your family's eyes to an unheard of price of Indiana's largest, oldest and $19.86.* most trusted name i:1 eyecare? 
•Exam is required at the time of pun:hasc and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orde.-. and may not be combined with any other discoont. 
Providers for all Insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servin!l lndiana's evecare needs (or over 40 years. We carry on a tradition of 
\OJ'.~ Medicaid We
uullence tl-.at is 
unsurpasud. And tha1's a 
SOUTH BEND • MISHAWAKA
promise from the doctor. • 


Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center Ac:ross from ScotiSdalc Mall Next door to Osco DruR
-{).~ 
291-4000 258-5000 

Tway takes opening-round match while Watson is ousted at Tucson 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz.-Bob Tway advanced easily, but Tom W at­son was upset yesterday in the first round of the Seiko Tucson Match Play Championship. 
Tway, already assured of PG A player of the Year honors, moved closer to the money­winning title with his 68-75 vic, tory over Brett Upper in the final official event on the 10­month PGA tour. 
Watson, who disqualified himself for an inadvertent breach of the rules last week in San Antonio, Tex., was ousted by David Edwards 66­72. 
Tway now needs only a win over Steve Pate in today's second round to clinch the money-winning title. 
Tway, who won the PGA na­tional championship and three other titles this season, needs $5,517 to surpass Greg Nor­man's leading $635,296. A second-round victory will as­sure Tway of a minimum $12,500. Norman is not compet­ing in this event. 
"It would mean a lot to me to go past Greg," Tway said. "But if I don't, it won't be the end of the world. I'll get over it. 
"The system is kind of strange, and it makes you feel kind of strange out there playing. You know you can play a good round, a 68, and still lose by five shots,'' Tway said of the medal-match format in which each player must complete each hole and the winner of a match is dc~ermined by an 18­hole medal score. 
Pate, Tway's second-round opponent, was 7-under par through the first 14 holes and eventually beat Craig Stadler 65-68. 

Bernhard Langer, the former Masters champion from West Germany, lost to Bob Gilder 66-68. 
Ben Crensnaw, ,, ho scored his second victory of the season last week in San Antonio, con­tinued his strong play in a 66-73 decision over Fred Couples. 
Defending champion Jim Thorpe also advanced, 68-70 over Brad Faxon. 
In the separate bracket for seniors, defending champion Harold Henning birdied -his first three holes and beat AI Chandler 69-75. 
South Mrican Gary Player was upset by Jim King 70-71. 
Hurricanes attempt to stay on top as they take on rival Florida State 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla.-Part of the reason the Miami Hur­ricanes are 7-0 and atop the na­tional rankings is they enter every game expecting to win and play as if fearing to lose. 
"We can't go into any game thinking that we're the better team," star quarterback Vinnie Testaverde said, "because we don't know if the other team knows that we're a better team." 
The Hurricanes waste little time proving their point. They have outscored their opponents 105-3 in the first quarter. 
The Hurricanes' least im­pressive performance came in the opener against Florida, the one team they always are fired up to play. Miami won that game 23-15 although Tes­taverde was slowed by a nastycold. 
Three weeks later, the Hur­ricanes manhandled then-No.1 Oklahoma 28-16 in the Orange Bowl. Only a last minute touch­down by the Sooners made the score respectable. 
Equally impressive have been lopsided victories over teams Miami should beat easily-61-11 over Texas Tech, 34-0 over Northern Illinois, 58­14 over West Virginia, 45-13 over Cincinnati. 

That easy part of the schedule ends tomorrow when the Hurricanes face 20th­ranked Florida State, 4-2-1, in the Orange Bowl. Then they play at Pittsburgh, and close with Tulsa at home. 
Defensive tackle Jerome Brown sometimes rankles Coach Jimmy Johnson with his outlandish statements, but he sounds like a coach's dream when he explains Miami's abil­ity to play well every time out. 
"Every game is tough for us," he said. "We don't treat anyone any differently than we did Oklahoma. 
"Sometimes we see some of the younger players joking around during practice and we have to get on them. We're a loose team and everybody wants to have fun, but we have 
to remind them we've got a job to do." 
Johnson said he hasn't had to do a lot to instill that attitude in his players. He suspects the embarrassing 35-7 loss to Ten­nessee in the Sugar Bowl last New Year's Day with the na­tional title on the line had some­thing to do with it. 
"This group has the best at­titude of any football team I've ever been around," he said. 
~ ~ 
0 
a 
~Goclfatbe:r·s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it. ™ 
TWO LARGE THIN LARGE FOR CRUST ONE MEDIUM-MEDIUM TOPPING EACH FOR SMALL 
We Deliver to a Limited Area 
338 Dunes Plaza Michigan City, Indiana 
874-5288 

-~--~~----------~ 
-

---------~~~-~-­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 12 
Wade selected new Terps' coach after Driesell steps down under fire 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Bob Wade, coach and athletic director at Baltimore's Dunbar High School, yesterday was named basketball coach at the Univer­sity of Maryland, replacing Charles "Lefty" Driesell. 
Maryland Chancellor John B. Slaughter, who made the an­nouncement, said, "The Uni­versity of Maryland has had a dearth of happy events over the last several months. Today represents a major change in our fortunes." 
Driesell, under pressure to give up his coaching post fol­lowing the June 19 cocaine­induced death of basketball star Len Bias, resigned Wed­nesday and accepted a job as assistant athletic director at the university. 
Wade, 41, who was accompa­nied by his wife and one of his two sons, said his elevation to college basketball coach represents "something we looked forward to all of our lives." 

A graduate of Morgan State in Baltimore, Wade has posted a 280-19 record during 10 seasons at Dunbar. 
"It couldn't have happened to a better guy,'' said Lake Clif­ton High School Coach Woody Williams, a long-time friend of Wade's. 
Wade has had a running feud with Driesell through the years. Wade claimed the Maryland coach would not recruit in Baltimore, while Driesell complained that Wade directed his best players to Georgetown University in Washington. 
Pete Pompey, coach at Ed­mondson High School, said Wade never prevented Driesell from recruiting at Dunbar. He said Wade also has a strict phi­losophy about his players' aca­demic performance and use of drugs. 
"He made a commitment a long time that his kids were going to get an education," Pompey said. "He's disagreed with some of the things that he (Driesell) did." 
But Pompey added that Wade "feels Len Bias was an adult and he made a decision to" take the cocaine that killed him. 
"He has made a statement that he would be tougher on (drug use)," Pompey said .. 
The state prosecutor inves­tigating Bias' death charged that Driesell did too little to dis­courage drug use and gave in­sufficient attention to the aca­demic needs of his players. 
Driesell, who coached / 17 seasons at Maryland and com­piled a 524-224 record, was one of 17 Division I coaches with more than 500 victories. He told reporters Wednesday he didn't 
want  to  coach  at  Maryland  
anymore  if  the  university  
didn't want him.  

Broten sinks Islanders in OT, 7-6 

Charles "Lefty" Driesell, who resigned as head basketball coach at the University of Maryland Wednesday, had Bob Wade named as his replacement yesterday. Details appear in the story at left. 
,~e'-· . -. Eras•as Boob
~(\· '11 Wb i{\~t\l bj ....-r 1027 E. Wayne 
o(\\0 "'fll_••• Tua. Sun, noon. 6 (\0 ...-~· 1 block lOUth of Jelenon & Eddy 232-8444 UH4 a ..tot.m-e._..._..._ -w......ned 
1t 
219-872-2114 
Open 7 Daya per week 

MICHIANA STABLES 
Tr•ll Rides  •  Pony Rides  •  H•y Rides  
• Lenon• • 808rdlng eTNinlng  U.S. 12 (E•tt of Mlchlg•n City) MICHIGAN CITY, IN 41310  

The Notre Dame Club ofMaryland 
proudly presents 
Notre Da•e-Navy In Balti•ore 
Friday, October 31 

Notre Dame Pep Rally /Party 7:30p.m. 
Omni International Hotel-Featuring coaches & former gridirion greats with music by the N.D. Alumni Band, a local Irish band, and a D.J. Cash bar and food Available. Cost $3.00 
Saturday, November 1, 19~6 
Bull Pen Bash 3-6:30 p.m. 
Memorial Stadium BuJJpen (behind Center Field) Pre-game entertainment and refreshments. Cost $2.00 
Omni International Hotel 4:00p.m. 
KICKOFF Memorial Stadium 7:00p.m. 
Marriott Hotel Lounge:

Post Game Celebration 
Illusions Inner Harbor 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­Aaron Broten, who scored with 
1: 14 to play to force overtime, scored again with 38 seconds left in the extra period, lifting the New Jersey Devils to 7-6 NHL victory over the New York Islanders last night. 
Broten broke into the Islanders' zone on a 2-on-1 break with Pat Verbeek and banked his game-winning shot off the leg of Islanders defen­seman Denis Potvin. It ap­peared the shot would not have gone into the net had it not hit the Islanders' captain. 
Broten sent the game into overtime by scoring 74 seconds before the end of regulation time. He collected the rebound of a Kirk Muller shot and slid a 10-foot backhander under Islanders goalie Kelly Hrudey. 
The loss snapped a four­game unbeaten streak by New York, which had won its last three games and appeared headed for a fourth after Pat 
Swim 
continuedfrom page 16 
Championship meet at Cleveland State. 
"We have a large s~uad," Welsh said. "The addition of the Eastern Collegiates makes it possible for almost everyone to get a chance to swim in a '!hampionship meet.'' 
A tough spot in the Notre Dame schedule will come up after semester break. The team will travel to Philadel­phia to take on LaSalle and Vil­lanova on January 16th and 17th. The following weekend, it will swim against Northern Il­linois, Western Ontario, Northwestern, and Minnesota. Before Christmas, the most dif­ficult meet is probably this week's Denison matchup. 
Next weekend, the Irish will swim in the 22nd annual Notre Dame Relays against teams in­cluding Eastern Illinois, Illinois-Chicago, and Val­paraiso. 

LaFontaine scored twice and Bryan Trottier once late in the second period for a 6-4 lead. 
However, New Jersey pulled to within 6-5 at 6: 10 of the per­iod when Verbeek got his lOth goal with the Islanders a man shorthanded. It was the Devils' fourth power-play goal of the game, and ninth in 15 power play opportunities over the past two nights. 
New York opened a 3-1lead after the first period on goals by Patrick Flatley, Mike Bossy and Potvin sandwiched around a New Jersey power-play goal by Mark Johnson, who had two goals and two assists. 
New Jersey stormed back to take a 4-3 lead less than 11 min­utes into the second period. John MacLean scored on a power play at 2:54 and Mel Bridgman tied the game, tip­ping a 50-foot shot by Johnson past Hrudey at 6:08. Johnson scored his second with New Jer­sey playing shorthanded at 10:53. 
LaFontaine tied the game just 37 seconds later, and he 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Family: 
Re-Elect Quality 
• 

Re-elect Robert A. Loeffler 
County Councilman District B Democrat 
Political advertisement paid by Committee to Re-elect Robert A. Loeffler 
and Trottier scored only 27 seconds apart later in the per­iod to make it 6-4. 
The Devils' Alain Chevrier faced 37 New York shots, while Hrudey was tested 31 times. 
Canadiens 3, Bruins 3 
BOSTON -Ray Bourque's 60­foot slapshot on a power play in the second period, his second goal of the season, gave the Boston Bruins a 3-3 tie with the Stanley Cup champion Montreal Canadiens yesterday in the NHL. 
Mike McPhee had two goals 26 seconds apart in the second period for Montreal. 
The Canadiens, now un­beaten in five straight games, fired 26 shots on Boston goalie Bill Hanford, while the Bruins had 40 shots on Patrick Roy. 
Stephane Richer gave Montreal a 1-0 lead with a power-play goal at 2: 20 of the first period, skating alone down the right side and poking the puck between Hanford's pads. 
Leadership 
Robert A. Loeffer •.• 
Has given you the National Center for Senior Living, which will brins 5,000 new jobs to St. Joe County Lowered the County Tax Rate Opposed the Local Option Tax 
Paved over 300 miles of County roads in four years Is the first elected official to question the renewed annexation effort 
Supports Youth Hockey 
Robert A. Loeffler is ••• 
Incumbent county Councilman, District B--4 years 
A 19.58 graduate of the University of Notre Dame 
Manager of Operations, Notre Dame Athletic & Convocation Center, and a 25 yr. Notre Dame employee Council Representative-County Job Training Program Chairman, Engineering and Transportation Committee 
Chairman, Maintenance committee, 1987Intemational Summer Special Olympics 
;p­

a> ... 0 a a :::==-....,
-:; -:us·*" . -a 
-

The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 13 


Sign Upl 
The Observer Is now accepting applications for positions In the Production Department. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
We will train you in layout and design techniques 

• 
Chance to advance Get involved 


Sign up now in The Observer's LaFortune office. 
Philly and Washington begin new NBA _season with new-look squads 
Associated Press 
The Philadelphia 76ers and Washington Bullets will put drastically changed teams on the floor when the NBA opens its 41st season tonight with nine games. 
The 76ers, who traded Moses Malone, Terry Catledge and the first pick in the 1986 draft, entertain the Indiana Pacers and their new coach, Jack Ramsay, while the Bullets travel to Boston, where the Cel­tics open defense of the NBA title they won in June. 
Among the new faces for Philadelphia and Coach Matt Guokas are Jeff Ruland, Roy Hinson, Cliff Robinson and Tim McCormick, who join Charles Barkley on the front line. Guard Andrew Toney, back from last season's injuries, will team with holdovers Julius Er­
ving,  Maurice  Cheeks  and  
Sedale  Threatt  in  the back­ 
court.  

"I haven't come to Philadel­phia to make people forget Moses Malone," the 6-foot-11 Ruland said. "I'm here to do a job and help the 76ers win. That's all I care about. 
"I know people will compare us. That's OK. Moses is a great player, but I consider myself a great player, too. Coach 

Tomorrow, the Los Angeles Lakers are at Houston for a na­tionally televised game. 
On draft day last June, Malone was traded to the Bul­lets, along with Catledge and a couple of future No. 1 draft picks for Ruland and Robinson. 
The 76ers were gambling that Ruland, who played only 67 games the past two seasons, co~d become a durable player 
a gam. 
Ruland, who is averaging 

18.7 points and 10.8 rebounds for h1s five-year career, prom­ises that the injuries are behind him. 
A slimmed-down Malone promises revenge on the 76ers, who first play the Bullets on Christmas Day. 
Guokas prefers a more up­tempo style of play and that is how this year's team is put to­gether, which suits me fine." 
Other openers Friday night pair New York at New Jersey, Milwaukee at Detroit, Utah at Dallas, San Antonio at Denver, Golden State at Phoenix, the 
Los  Angeles  Clippers  at  
Sacramento, and  Seattle  at  
Portland.  

Irish 
continued/rom page 16 
had given them their 15-2 win, 
·,

and Bradley took advantage. Despite the tough play of Notre Dame sophomore Maureen Shea, who led the Irish with six­teen kills for an .445 kill percentage, the Braves pulled out their only win of the night 15-12. 
The fourth and last game of the evening started out as a carbon-copy of game three . Bradley controlled the net with several tips and dinks around the Irish blocks as the two teams battled to a 7-7 tie. 
"We have not learned to play 


well with teams that throw the slop, those soft tips,"said Lam­bert. "We cannot adjust to it." 
Maureen Shea continued to be a force at the net for the 
CONSULTANTS TO 
Irish as they took advantage of Bradley misplays and won the final game 15-9 to take the match, three games to one. 
Lambert and his players look 

to improve on their season 
record tonight in their match 
INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
We have clients seeking qualified individuals with 
at Northern Illinois and then in 
language and area expertise regarding foreign 
three home matches next markets. Part-time and full-time assignments 
weekend against Dayton, Northwestern and Pittsburgh.' 
avaiable. Foreign nationals with advance degrees from american universities needed as visa 
Tha1kstoyou••• 

restrictions will not effect certain projects. 
it works...

Expertise in technical, economic, or scientific fields is required. 
for 
ALL 

Send resume, including telephone number to: 
OFUS 

Swenson, Crawford &Paine Executive Search Division P.O. BoxA-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 
unitedWily
• 

r
~~--~-·,_..._-----=----,~--------~....------------~~­
: 
' The Observer Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986, -page 14 

.­
-
-

··~~. 
Pittsburgh Penguins' goaltender Roberto Romano makes a sprawling save as Greg Adams of the New Jersey Devils tries to poke home a goal in NUL action earlier this season. 

Orioles deal for Padres' Kennedy 
Associated Press 

The other Baltimore 12 home runs and 57 RBI. catche~s had just as much trou­BALTIMORE-The Bal­ble at bat, with John Stefero hit­During his last six seasons 
timore Orioles, in desperate ting .233 and Floyd Rayford with the Padres, after playing need of a catcher, obtained slumping to .176 after leading parts of three seasons with the Terry Kennedy from San Diego the club in 1985 with a .306 
St. Louis Cardinals, Kennedy
yesterday and sent pitcher mark. has appeared in 792 games­Storm Davis to the Padres. 
second in the major leaguesAs part of the deal, the During the World Series, only to Gary Carter's 805 total 
Oriol~s also received right­they negotiated with several during that period. hander Mark Williamson, the clubs for a catcher after failing top relief pitcher in the Pacific to pick up the option on the con­Kennedy, a three-time Na­
Coast League last season. tract of 37-year-old Rick tional League All-Star selec­
After the Orioles finished last Dempsey, who batted .208 in tion, had his best all-around 
in 1986, for the first time in his­1986. year at the plate in 1982 when tory, it was obvious they he hit .295 with a career-highneeded strengthening at Kennedy, 30, has a lifetime 21 homers and 97 RBI. The left­catcher, third base and second major league average of .272. handed batter hit .301 in 1981,base. He batted .264last season, with and drove in 98 runs in 1983. 
BP, Farley make finals 
By CHRIS LEUPOLD Sports Writer 
It definitely was a wild one at Cartier Field last night. Breen-Phillips' miraculous comeback victory over Pasquerilla East allows the winners to take on first game victor Farley in the women's Interhall Football champion­ship. 
The first half score of the second game saw Pasquerilla East leading, 6-0, thanks to a Colleen O'Connor four-yard run up the middle. Both teams' offenses, however, began to move more effectively in the deciding half. 
On Pasquerilla's first posses­sion in the second half, speedy Annie Schrenk found an open lane and scored from 11 yards out. Down 12-0, the Tigers of Breen-Phillips found their roar. Quarterback Amy Treeder hit receiver Margaret Johnson for a 58-yard touch­down pass. 
The score stood 12-6 in favor of Pasquerilla East with just 15 seconds remaining in the game, with Breen-Phillips on its own 25-yard line, when Treeder skippered an in­credible comeback. In her hurry-up offense, she con­nected with Angie Williams for a 40-yard gain, and then hit Carolyn Burke with a 35-yard bomb for the tying touchdown. 
The crowd was in a frenzy as overtime began. Each team would receive two plays to score from the five-yard line. Both teams scored, making the tally 16-16. 
The aggressive defensive line of Breen-Phillips, led by tackle Kathy Tammaro, then stifled both of Pasquerilla's next attempts at running the ball in. On the Tigers' posses­sion, Williams coasted into the endzone, sealing an 18-16 vic­tory. The dejected and bewil­dered bench of Pasquerilla East saw its season end when the jubulant Tigers of Breen­Phillips swarmed the field. 
Though not quite as dramatic as the game to follow, the Lyons-Farley match-up saw Mary Lou Armeida's mastery of running Farley's offense lead to a 12-0 victory. 
After a scoreless first half which saw Lyons neutralizing the Farley offensive machine, Suzanne Schwartz ran around the right end to put Farley ahead, 6-0. After Armeida and Lyons quarterback Mary Boh­mer traded downs and series with neither making any scoring threat, Armeida pitched to Schwartz, who ran for her second score, a 35-yard burst. This proved to be the last score in the game and resulted in a 12-0 shutout victory for Farley. 
"The girls from both teams played great," said Farley coach Dave Hanes. · Both Farley and Breen­Phillips will be ready for the championship game, which should be a dandy. It will be a contest between the devastat­ing offense of Farley and the strong defense of BreeD­Phillips. 
The championship game for women's Interhall Football will be under the lights of Car­tier Field, at 7 p.m. Sunday. 


I refancf is fanwu.s for its crystaL. Every piece is tFte procfuct of rare craftsmanship ancf strict adherence to quafity. 
TFte same is true for Bwiweiser. We 6re\IV our 6eer witfi tFte finest Ftops) rice) ancf 6ar[ry maft. Then we age it with BeecfiwoocC to aicf tFte natural car6onation. TFte resuft is a cfean) crisp taste that has 6een cfistinctivefy Bwiweiser's for over one Ftuncfre.cfyears. 
For those wfto 
~eciate 
quafi~
this Biuf!s for you: 
BUDWEISEA<l'ti•KING OF BEERS®•ANHEUSER·BUSCH.INC •ST LOUIS 
,_ 

~4C:t.cll4tJL~---------------------------------------F--:-·J.ay.-.s.at.~•d•a•y•'•O•c•to•be•r--31.-Nov.e.m•b•e•r•1•,•19•~'.'-.···p•H•~-e.t_5
.. 
EH, MAN! WHERE ARf YOU FROH? 
I 

Student Activities Board presents ... ''With All Deliberate William Minter Delay: The West and specialist on South Africa South Africa With an introduction by Dr. Peter Walshe. Sanctions'' Wednesday, Nov. 5th 8:00pm Washington Hall  


WilY, AHHFROf1 
CORPUS CHRISTI, 
TEXAS, ANP PA/1N 
PROUD OF 1r! 
I 

11: 15 a.m.-12:30 p.m.: Economics Dept. Public Policy Workshop, a discussion of the relationship between work and wel­fare. 131 Decio 
12:00 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture, "Religion and Politics in a Pluralistic Democracy," by the Honorable J. Daniel Hahoney, US Court of Appeals, 2nd Circuit, 101, Law School 
4:30 p.m.: Mass, Keenan-Standford Chapel 
5:00 p.m.: Varsity Volleyball, SMC vs. Purdue, Calumet, SMC Invitational at the Angela Athletic Facility, Participants: Franklin Ancilla, Purdue (Calumet), Rosary, Taylor-Tri-State, and Illinois Benedictine 7:00, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "Nightmare on Elm Street," $1.50, Engi­neering Auditorium 
7:30 & 9:30p.m.: Friday Night Film Se­ries, "La Passante," 1983, color, 106 min­utes, Jacques Rouffio, France, Annenberg Auditorium 
9:00 p.m.: Concert, Henry Lee Summer, $2.00, Stepan Center 
Saturday 
10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m.: SMC Center for Sprirituality One Day Seminar, Theme: What's Right With the Cathlic Church?, Speakers: Sister Joan D. Chittister, O.S.B., Prioress, Benedictine Sister, Erie, Pa., Lecturer, and author, and Most Rev. Thomas J. Gumbleton, D.C. Auxiliary Bis­hop of Detroit, and co-author, "Bishops' Statement on Peace," Moderator: Dr. Doris Donnelly, SMC, Carroll Hall Auditorium, Madeleva Hall 
12:00 p.m.: Swimming NDW vs. Denison, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
1:00 p.m.: Varsity Soccer SMC vs. Calvin College, SMC Soccer Field ­
'----------------------------~------···---···-· 

r~·_:::::..·_·~-·-·:-::___ __._... ___ __ · __ .. a....~s
·_·~--~§0-·~z~~~-·-·_::::·_· _._··,_·__ ....._. __ ._._...... ............~................ 
I . ---------------~----­
Far Side Gary Larson 
l 0, CANADA, OUR HOM£ fl AND NATIV£ LAND.... 

t! 
I 
Rolfs Aquatic Center 7:00p.m.: Football, ND vs. Navy at Bal­timore 9:00p.m.: Trick-or-Treat Movie, come see if it will be a trick or a treat, $1.00, refresh­ments served, Pasquerilla West party room 
Sunday 11:00-5:00 p.m.: Center for Social Con­cerns Urban Plunge Workshop, Library
Auditorium 

1:30 p.m.: Meeting, Black Cultural Arts Festival, Pasquerilla West Chapel 2:00-4:00 p.m.: Annual Faculty Exhibi­tion, Snite Museum of Art 
4:00 p.m.: Music Dept. Concert, Claude Cymerman, Guest Piano Recital, Annen­berg Auditorium 8:00p.m.: Daedalus Productions of New York Presents a Stage Production of "Evita," O'Laughlin Auditorium, Tickets available at SMC box office, 284-4626, $10 
for adults: $5 for students 
Dinner Meaus 
Notre Dame 
Honey Glazed Ham 
Spanakopita
Batter Fried Perch 

Sloppy Joe on Round Bun 
Saint Mary's Batter Fried Fish Tacos Cheese & Mushroom Omelet Deli Bar 
-----' 
:. 
ACROSS 1 Third power 5 Point of 
embarkation, 
Aug. 3, 1492 1 0 Tennis name 14 Yoked beasts 15-acid 16 Go to sea 17 Uru. city 19 Cultivate 20 Skilled 
workman 21 Ga. city 23 Hosiery shade 24 Trumpeter AI 25 Prizes 28 "-Ben" 30 Area 31 Pay out 33 Many, many 
ages 35 River in 

Rumania 36 Eastern VIP 37 Grape 38 Even: Fr. 40 Rood 42 Tumult 43 Combat places Yesterday'sPuzzle Solved: 45 Unorthodox 61di­
belief 7 Eye covering 47 City in 8 Draft classi-
Normandy fication 48 Hang unevenly 9 Pacified 49 Not enclosed 1 0 Goddess of 52 Ancient area fertility 
in lt. 11 City on the 56 Black cuckoos Mississippi 57 Auckland's 12 Sword handle 
land 13 Raines or 59 Puerto-Logan 60 Sluggish 18 Jacob's 61 Soviet range brother 62 Bandleader 22 Writer Yutang 
Kenton 25 USSR river 63 Musical 26 South Pole finales area 


64 Monthly bill 27 Boxes 28 Grind teeth 41 Sonnet parts DOWN 29 Representative 42 Orderly 1 Torpor 30 Actress 44 Modem: pref. 2 Wife of Caesar Caldwell 46-avis 3 Special talent 32 Self 49 Items in a 4 Designate 34 Posed bireme 5 Stately court 39 Entices 50 Standard dances 40 Authorized measure 
10/31/86 51 Gambling town 52 Stone or Pound 53 Breathing sound 54-instant (Immediately) 55 Mine approach 58 Unite 
-, 


,,..~........a....~..~......~-..~....a u~ec~.........~.............
......~......................~....... 
S~orts 

Friday-Saturday, October 31-November 1, 1986,-page 16 
ND volleyball downs Bradley, 3-1, despite unimpressive performance 
By BRIAN O'GARA (tonight) we'll get blown aggressive play and a strong Sports Writer away." net performance by sophomore Tonight the Irish travel to Mary Kay Waller. Waller com­Winning isn't everything. DeKalb, Ill. to face Northern bined with junior setter Kathy This was proven last night in Illinois. The game will be Morin for several blocks to 
the ACC Pit as the Notre Dame televised at 7 p.m. on a delayed frustrate Bradley, as the Irish volleyball team defeated Brad­basis by SportsVision. then took total control to score ley 15-12, 15-2, 12-15, 15-9. The Last night's Bradley game, nine consecutive points and win victory was the 19th win for the meanwhile, got off to a slow the second game with a score Irish this season against only start for both teams. The two of 15-2. six losses, but it was a subpar sq_uads traded points until the The ACC crowd of 269 sensed performance for the Irish. Irtsh finally pulled ahead 13-9 a three-game sweep by the 
In the end, everyone in the near the end of the game. The Irish, who have swept their op­gym knew Notre Dame hades­Braves then rallied for three ponents in 12 of their 19 wins caped with a win despite straight points before the Irish this season. But this was not to playing below potential, includ­put them away with a service be. mg Irish head coach Art Lam­ace by sophomore Zanette Ben­The evening's third game bert. nett and a kill by freshman began much like game one, 
"We just didn't show up for Kathy Cunningham, winning with the two teams battling to this game," he said. "It was a game one 15-12. a 7-7 tie. The Irish, however, total team breakdown in every The second game was all seemed to forget the play that aspect, beginning with concen­Notre Dame. The Irish ran up tration. If we play this way a quick lead of 6-2 with more see IRISH, page 13 
86-87 preview 
Men's swimming has high hopes 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN Zanette Bennett gets ready to make a kill in last night's Notre Sports WriterDame volleyball victory over Bradley. Brian O'Gara details the match in his story at right. "I think it's going to be an excellent season," Irish men's  respectively. While previously teams could take only two of the three positions in an event, now they can win three out of the five scored positions.  spot in the middle and long dis­tance freestyle events vacated by the graduation of Blaise Harding. Mark Lowney of Or­ange, Conn. will also add depth  
Stanford is entering IH By CHRIS DALLAVO Sports Writer Fall Break is over, leaves are all over the ground and football is in the air-men's interhall football, that is. The 1986 playoffs are about to begin, with undefeated Stanford Hall the overwhelming favorite to capture the crown. Stanford, led by 9uarterback AI Martin, is the frrst seed in the six-team playoff system. Despite the domination of the Studs during the year, they ex­pect to face some tough com­petition during the post season. "We appreciate the respect of the other coaches and teams, but we are taking nothing for granted," said assistant coach Jay Landry. "There are a lot of good football teams left." Martin leads the balanced  favored playoffs back to old-time football, as both teams feature strong run­ning games and solid defenses. "We are looking for a defen­sive struggle," said Howard head coach Tom Brennan. ''We have improved vastly in all areas, especially our running game. We like to stick to the basics." Steve Dembrowski, head coach of Zahm, agrees. "Our defense is our strong point," he said. "All year they have kept us in ballgames, and kept the pressure to score a lot of points off of the offense." The winner of this game, to be played at 1 p.m. on Sunday on Stepan Field, will take on Stanford in the semi-finals. The second game will be a rematch of the final regular season game between Flanner and Parseghian Division champion Morrissey. Flanner  swim coach Tim Welsh said. "We're pleased with recruit­ing. It's a very challenging s.chedule. The whole scoring system has changed, so we'll have to see." Notre Dame starts its season tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center against a tough Denison squad. A current Division III power, Denison has moved up in the rankings every year for the past few years un­der last year's Division III Coach of the Year, Richard Burrows. "It's really an excellent pro­gram," Welsh said. "Because of all the scoring changes, it means we really don't know what will happen. It's definitely a huge difference." Last year in NCAA swim competition, a first-place finish was worth five points, a second added three, while a third netted one. This year, the first five places will be worth seven, four, three, two, and one point  Therefore, a team which takes second, third, and fourth out­scores a first, fifth, and sixth finisher. Changes in relay scores fur­ther alter the complexion of meet strategy. Last year a relay victory would give a team seven points ; the losers received none. This year, in a large meet, the first place team will receive nine points, with four for second, and two for third. The Irish swimming and diving team has added a num­ber of freshman to its ranks. The diving team hopes to be­come competitive this year with four new additions. Ed Veome, a Notre Dame Scholar from LaGrange Park, Ill., joins the team along with fellow freshmen Nick Farmer, a na­tive of Fort Meyers, Fla., and Richard Zell from Chappaqua, New York. Junior Tom Browne has also made a switch to diving. Mike Messaglia will take the  to the Irish distance corps. ''Bill J ackoboice will be a tre­mendous asset to our sprinting corps in both freestyle and fly events," Welsh said. "His ver­satility will really help. He can also swim the breaststroke. The key thing is he's really fast up front." David Vreeland of West Palm Beach will compete in the Individual Medley and, with Tom Penn, in the freestyle events. Welsh looks for Penn to better his times considerably. "His time jumps in high school were significant," Welsh said. "He's a talented swimmer-and a good student of his own ability. He's easy to coach." Led by captains Stephen Cof­fey and Chris Walsh, Notre Dame is starting competition a month earlier than last year and has almost twice as many meets. The Irish have also just joined the Eastern Collegiate see SWIM, page 12  
Stanford offense, mixing a strong passing attack with a steady ground game. "Martin does an excellent  will be looking for revenge, as the Manorites dominated all phases of the game in winning 13-0.  
job mixing up the plays, and he has a tremendous arm," said Landry. The defense of the Studs has dominated this year, limiting their opponents to six points in five games. "On defense, we force a lot of turnovers, which leads to points," noted Landry. "It is  Flanner head coach Jim Fitzgerald consented, saying that Morrissey was the better team that night. "But we are a better team than we showed," he qualified. "We just didn't play well. Our defense has been consistently tough, but we got burned on two  
hard to single out any individ­ual stars on the team. We really play as a unit." Giving Stanford its stiffest  pass plays. We need to stay away from the big play, and we'll be all right." The third-seeded Manorites  
competition  will  be  second­ take on Flanner at 2 p.m. Sun­ 
seeded Sorin, which won the Rockne division with a record of 2-0-2. The top two seeds receive byes in the first round,  day in the second half of the playoff doubleheader at Stepan Field, with the winner playing Sorin in the semi-finals.  
i ~  and their opponents will be de­termined by the winners of this weekend's games. The first playoff game fea­tures fourth-seeded Zahm Hall,  Both games will feature in­tense action and emotion, espe­cially for the seniors, who may be playing in their last game. Shake the post-Halloween  
which compiled a 4-1 record during the regular season, taking on fifth-seeded Howard. This game looks to be a throw- headache by going out to Stepan Field this Sunday and watching some excellent foot­ball.  Flanner (in white) will be one of the teams in Chris Dallavo the hunt for the 1986 Interhall Football cham­his story at lefpionship, as the playoffs begin this weekend.  previews the upcoming games in t.  
~...,.......~~-­-----­ ---­ 









