Segregation -page 3 

VOL. XX NO. 101 Thursday, February 27, 1986 
-
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Aquino seeks cease-fire, orders release of prisoners 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines President Corazon Aquino ordered the immediate release of 33 political prisoners today, and her government announced that the cases of another 400 people were being studied. 
Gen. Fidel Ramos, the new military chief, announced the releases after an early morning Mass, where one prisoner, iden­tified as Jaime Verdan, told the crowd, "I cannot say how happy I am. I thank 'people's power' and God." 
Human rights groups have estimated approximately 500 people were held under the Presidential Detention Act, adopted during the 20-year rule of Ferdinand Marcos. 
The government-run broad­cast station said yesterday that a military task force would meet during the night to prepare a list of the prisoners and said the new administration was "hop­ing" for the release of approx­imately 50 percent of them. 
Aquino said earlier yesterday she would seek a cease-fire with communist guerrillas but not the extradition of Marcos, who was driven into exile by her "people's power" revolt. 
Salvador Laurel, the new vice president, had announced plans for a general political amnesty 
see AQUINO, page 3 

A Filipino joins the celebration in front of the Philippine consulate in San Francisco recently as Cor­azon Aquino supporters celebrated. 


University contributed to successful boycott, 
.~

says farm union leader I 
I
By CLIFF STEVENS and 
FRAN.KLIPO 
StaffReporters 
"Why suffer to make a big cor­poration more wealthy instead of working to make something better for your family?" asked Baldemar Velasquez, president of the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC) last night. 
Earlier in the day, Velasquez an­nounced the suspension of the 7­year-old boycott of Campbell Soup Company products, during a press conference at the Center for Social Concerns. Notre Dame had en­dorsed the boycott for six years. 
The actual agreement was signed Feb. 21 by the Toledo, Ohio-based FLOC, the Campbell's Soup Com­pany and Michigan and Ohio tomato and cucumber farmers. A 1978 strike of 2,300 migrant farm­workers led to the formation of FLOC and the subsequent boycott. 
The agreement grants FLOC union recognition. For that reason, Velasquez said during the press conference that this agreement is a momentous one, not just for farm­workers covered by FLOC, but for farmworkers across the nation. 
''That is really all that the farm­workers have lacked over the years," said Velasquez. He said that every other U.S. worker-group has received union recognition, 

Aquino yesterday ordered the through the National Labor Rela­release of 33 political prisoners in tions Board. the Philippines. Story at left. This agreement sets a precedent for guaranteed improvements in living and working condiditons for 
farmworkers, according to Velas­quez. 
"Farmworkers are not unemployed. You are talking about hard-working American citizens. So the question is, if they are hard­working American citizens, why can't they feed, educate, and clothe their families from the sweat of their backs?" asked Velasquez. 
Velasquez said that Notre Dame made a difference in the boycott ef­fort and was the first major educa­tional institution to join the boycott. 
"When you boycott a product for six years, and you have students who can lead this and carry on the tradition, I think that's phenomenal and a credit to the students at Notre Dame," he said. 
Velasquez said that the Notre Dame effort must continue. "We have to keep this thing going. Campbell's should not be kept in an uncompetitive situation. We have to bring Heinz, Del Monte, and the other big companies in," he said. 
Velasquez asked the audience to write a letter to Heinz, Campbell's major competitor, asking for "negotiation," not just talk, with FLOC. 
Referring to Heinz, velasquez said, "It (a labor agreement) is go­ing to happen, these guys do not stand a chance. It took us six years to build the Campbell boycott, but we were nobody. It took us six years to get to the people in this country who can make things hap-
see BOYCOTT, page 3 


Friends, not phone taps prompt drug investigations at ND 
By ALEX PELTZER might be going on. The suggestion Copy Editor was that the goings-on had something to do with drugs," 
There is no unit of Notre Dame Goldrick said. Security that investigates drugs ex­Both Rakow and Goldrick clusively, according to Security denied rumors that phone taps had Director Rex Rakow. been used in any investigations. 
"We're a relatively small staff. Rakow said although Security We aren't out actively soliciting in­does have tracing equipment for formation," Rakow said. "We harassment calls, they have never don't have a unit per se that just used phone tapping in drug in­deals with drug investigations." vestigations. 
He said most information Securi­"We haven't used anything off ty receives does not come from in­the phones," said Rakow. "That's vestigations, but instead from con­not to say that we might not use cerned friends. He also said the ad­phones as a tool at some point. But ministration rarely initiates an in­we would have to have permission vestigation. from at least one person in the 
"Once in a while through other room. That has not been channels of the University, we necessary." might get a referral. There might be He added that the permission is a a drug problem with a student or a legal requirement, not a University group of students and we in­requirement. vestigate," Rakow said. But Goldrick said that phone 
Rakow said that for Security to tapping would be against the search a room, ''we have to have a philosophy of the Universtiy. complaint. It has to be reasonable "I couldn't imagine that we and probable cause must exist." would for any reason listen in on 
In most cases, information the conversation of a student," comes to the administration or to Goldrick said. "That's not the kind Security in inadvertent ways. John of relationship we have with our Goldrick, associate vice president students." for residence life, said in the case of Rakow said investigations have the Flanner and Keenan room sear­to be checked with the Office of ches of Feb. 3, the information was Student Affairs before they are offered to them. carried out. 
"Information had been brought He said the University has the to our attention by people who right to enter a room at any time. were concerned that something He cited the housing contract, sign­ed when a student first enters a Once the investigations have un­ning the matter over to officials residence hall, as giving Security covered a problem, either with drug outside the University, the ad­that right. use or with sales, the students in­ministration prefers to discipline 

The contract states, "The volved would then be dealt with by the students themselves. University reserves the right ... to Student Affairs. How the student's case is handled enter rooms without a search war­"We would like to deal with our depends largely on what kind of rant for the purpose of maintaining students in disciplinary matters in­violation is involved. Father David security, discipline and the orderly ternally as much as we can, said Tyson, vice president of student af­operation of an educational in­Goldrick. stituion." He explained that instead of tur-see PROBES, page 5 
Drug offenses recently handled differently 
By TRIPP BALTZ not veen expelled from the Univer­Copy Editor sity. He said he was told they have withdrawn "for the time being." 
At Notre Dame, drug offenses In a Feb. 5 story in The typically have been handled first by Observer, Keenan Hall Rector the residence hall staffs, in a Brother Bonaventure Scully stated similar fasion to other in-hall of­he knew nothing about investiga­fenses. tions conducted in a room in his 
Security and the Office of Stu­dorm prior to the night on which dent Affairs, however, recently they occurred. have dealt with drug violations dif­Scully later refused to offer com­
ferently. Brother Michael Smith said he was not told beforehand about 
Drugs at 
Security's search of two rooms in Flanner Hall, where he is the rec­ND/SMC tor. 
"I have received a letter that dealt 

with one person," said Smith. ments on the affair. He said the Smith said he has no idea if the ad­whole thing was "a security mat­ministration or Security is conduc­ter." ting a campus-wide investigation. "I can't tell you anything that 

"I guess it's pretty clear (the sear­wouldn't be confidential," Scully ches) were for drugs," said Smith. said. Smith added that the students have Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security, said he would not comment on either affair because they are private matters between the involved students and Student Affairs. Rakow added that the hall staffs normally do not contact Security directly about a drug­related offense. "Usually they con­tact Student Affairs first." 
At a dorm-wide meeting in Mor­rissey Hall earlier in the semester, 
Hall  Rector  Brother  Edward  
Luther  announced  that  a  
sophomore resident had  been  ex­ 

pelled last semester for selling drugs. 
Commenting on the matter later, Luther said "I got a call from the Office of Student Affairs that (the student) would not be coming back." Luther said he was not in­volved in the student's case before his expulsion. The student was call-
see OFFENSES, page 4 

----~ ~---------------------........ 

Thursday, February 27, 1986 -page 2 
The Observer 

New volunteers are welcome for the Women's Care Center Phone-a-thon, which continues tonight from 6 to 9 in Room 213 of the Administration Building. The goal for this year is $30,000. Any questions, please call Bill 283-1986 or Terry 283­4298. -The Observer 
Applications are now available in the office of Student Residences for positions of summer manager and assistant manager. They may be picked up in Room 315 of the Administra­tion Building. The deadline for return of applications is March 14. -The Observer 
Professor Jean Bethke Elshtain will lecture on "Armed civic culture: Reflections on political discourse and war." The lecture is sponsored by the departments of English, government, philosophy and sociology in conjunction with the course on Critical and Con­tinental Thought. It will be held today at 2 in the library lounge. ­
The Observer 
Students will vote on the proposed constitution and a referendum calling for the University to divest in companies doing business in South Africa during the March 4 election, said Student Body President Bill Healy at last night's Student Senate meeting. Students will also vote for student body president and vice presi­dent that day. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
Teacher applicants are needed by Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organization in all fields from kindergarten through col­lege to fill over 600 teaching vacancies home and abroad. For addi­tional information, write the National Teacher's Placement Agen­cy, Universal Teachers, Box 5231, Porland, Ore. 97208. -The Observer 
Potential 1986-87 Cheerleaders interested in try­ing out for a cheerleading/leprechaun position for next year are asked to attend a mandatory organizational meeting Sunday night from 7 to 8 in the ACC Football Auditorium. Refer questions to Tom Swaykus at 283-4512.-The Observer 
Weather 
Even the dwarfs would not like the snow-white look down the campus yellow brick road today. There is a 50 percent cl)ance of snow with highs in the mid 20s. Partly sunny and cold tomorrow with highs in the low to mid 20s. -AP 


Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Typists ..... Chris, Dan, Mary, Sarah Design Assistant . .... Melissa Warnke ND Day Editor ...... Sharon Emmite News Editor ..•.... Mark Pankowski Ad Design . ............ Joan Wrapp Copy Editor ........ Ann Kaltenvack Photographer. . . . . ..... J ustif' Smith Sports Copy Editor .. Mike Szymanski 
The Observer ( l'SPS 'i99 ].. -lOOO) is published Monda~· through friday exn•pt durin~ exam and vacation IXriods.The Observer as published by the students ofthe l·niversll\ of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Coll~ge. Subscription.' may be purchased for HOpe~ year ( SJ.O !Xr semester) by writing The Observer, P 0. Box Q. Notre Dam~·. Indiana -l6~%. 
The Observer is a member of The Assoclated Press. All reprodunion rights are reSt"rved. 


'' irh Rt h.'11 SH mrx >nr a:-. Pn 1:-.pvn' 
one-br.M..t. Pillinton 
THURSDlY FEBRUf4RY 27 
FRIDAY FEBRI.J4.RY28 
SATURDAY MAFD-f 1 

Tlclwh $6 Man Floor $5 Balcony S4 Slt.denf5 
THVRSD.\Y MAFD-f 6 
.............., 
Washinaton Hall
FRIDAY MAFD-f 7 
AINeOC & Ccvwoo.Mot1 Cenlet G.."' !(} 
SATURDAY MAF018 Gr-.Rates.Av-Fot T ICketlnlormawn Gall (2191 2J9·!;134 (2191239·5957 
8:10p.m. 

is accepting aplications for the following positions: 
The Observer 

Production Manager Saint Mary's Executive Editor Graphic Arts Manager 
Accent Editor 

Submit personal statement and resume
Advertising Manager Sports Editor 

to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Monday
Photo Manager 

News Editor Viewpoint Editor Systems Manager 3rd floor LaFortune Student Center. 


NAUGLES 
DELIVERY HOURS: 6:00 · Midnight 272-5455

24 HOUR DRIVE THRU 
501 Dixieway North, Roseland, Indiana 


Free soft shell taco with every delivery order (thru March 7, 1986). For your convenience, the dining room will now be open until 4 am, Fri. &Sat. nights. 

CANADIAN MIST 

10~~· ­
HAIG PINCH 
12!0~' 
JIM BEAM 
B~URBON 
\ 

1~~L 
KINGS CELLA GIN 

99
ARROW TRIPLE SEC 

&~~ML 
KING CHARLES SCOTCH 


8~~ML 
OLD BUSHMILLS 
8!! 
POLO BRINDISI 

315~~ML 
B&G BEAUJOLAIS 

3~~ML 

MARTINI &ROSSI VERMOUTH 
3!5!ML 
4~~L 
CANEI 



2!!ML 
MOLSON 
GOLDEN, BEER or ALE 
299 
6 PI<.-12 OZ. N.R.'s 

----, 
The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1986 -page 3 
U.S. city maps at College show racially segregated areas 
Now in the near north side of the ci­ty there is a large black population that covers 10 square miles," Kenny said. 
In South Bend the problem of racial segregation has had a devastating effect in many of the city's neighborhoods, Kenny said. 
"On the southeast side of South Bend, surrounded by Michigan, Miami, Broadway and Sample streets, that neighborhood piled up with poor, black people. 
"What you find with this factor are landlords who really don't care about their tenants. 
"As a consequence of this situa­tion, an area that equalled 6,000 resident in 1960 was reduced to a population of 2,000 in 1980. 
"The housing in this area fell apart, and it was very difficult for black people to find jobs or get jobs because geographically they were separated from many businesses or other places of employment, Kenny said. 
According to Kenny this infor­mation will be helpful to students and professors of the sociology, government, and history depart­ments at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The maps will be stored in the History Seminar Room, Room 350 of Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. 

Aquino 
continuedfrom page 1 
and said the insurgents are not truly communists, but people Marcos forced into fighting. There has been little guerrilla activity since the election, which they boycotted. 

American helicopters took Mar­cos, who had ruled this 7,100­island archipelago for two decades, to Clark Air Base on Tuesday night. He and his party were flown to Hawaii by the U.S. Air Force after a stop in Guam. 


Boycott 
continuedfrom page 1 
pen. What took us six years to do with Campbell's, we can· do in six months with Heinz." 
Souzen Deavers, a representative from Campbell's, had joined Velas­quez in praise of the agreement at the press conference. 

"We feel we can look forward to good labor relations in Ohio and Michigan," Deavers said of the agreement. 
Deavers said the boycott had no economic impact on the Campbell's Company, saying the agreement was finally reached because of Campbell's traditional commitment to the interestes of minorities and women. 
Later, Velasquez questioned claims by Campbell Soup officials that the boycott was ineffective. "They can say all they want, but you know very well there is no way they can measure how successful they could have been (without the boycott)," he said. 
Velasquez said that these com­panies, not the taxpayers, should be responsible. 
Editor's note 
Because of equipment failure, neither Viewpoint nor Accent appear in this issue of The Observer. We at The Observer apologize for any typographical errors that are a result of .this equipment failure, as well as the late delivery of the paper for the last several days. We also apologize for our inability to ac­cept classified advertising until the problem is solved. We hope to return to normal publishing soon. 
The Editor 

by MARILYN BENCHIK 
StaffReporter 
Timothy Kenny, consultant for the South Bend Human Rights Commission, has compiled a col­lection of 700 maps indicating areas of racial segregation in cities across the country. 
The Cushwa-Leighton Library at Saint Mary's is now displayinga portion of Kenny's duplicated works. Milwaukee, Chicago, and South Bend are the cities that com­prise the Saint Mary's collection. 
"The overall collection took me five years to work on. These maps range from 1940-1980," said Ken­ny. 
"Onlv South Bend has a map for 1980 on display at the Cushwa­Leighton Library. Due to a lack of funds the government decided to put Chicago's and Milwaukee's maps on microfiche," said Kenny. 
He added that the Saint Mary's collection is a duplication of the original maps at his home. 
According to Kenny, he research­ed his information from U.S. Cen­sus Reports (1940-1980) and the Notre Dame Memorial Library Statistics Reports. 
"Blocks equalling a 50 percent or more black population are col­ored black. Areas with less than a 50 percent black population are shaded tan, and blocks with no blacks are left uncolored," he said. 
"The patterns showed that there are usually one or more predominantly black areas in most cities across the country," Kenny added. 
"The percentage of segregation is usually quite high in American cities. Usually this percentage varies between 70 and 90 percent. In some places it even reaches 98 percent," he said. 
Kenny said that there are no ma­jor differences concerning the rate of segregation in cities across the country. 
Each city that Kenny studied has its own segregation patterns. 
"The south side of Chicago, which now has a large black population, grew a great deal after 1950. Before the fifties the black area was only 5 square miles. By 1960 it had expanded from the Loop to 99th Street. 
"In 1986 this area had dipped down to the Calumet River where 129th Street lies. This land area ex­ceeds the land area of the entire city of South Bend. It is also densely populated. Three quarters of a million people live here," said Ken­ny. 
He said Milwaukee is an in­teresting city to study segregation patterns. 
"Milwaukee was one of the most segregated cities until after 1960. The black comprised the inner core of the city. 
"In the sixties many blacks were able to disperse to the northwest. 



The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 4 
Open house shows off 
Genetic engineering debatable, says author 
new computer center 
By CHRIS SKORCZ genetic engineering merit lengthy have adopted a "new formula," he 
' . 
By KIMBERLY TRENNER 
Senior StaffReporter 
Students had the opportunity to see the new Saint Mary's student computer center and to discuss with staff members the best way to utilize these resources at an open house and workshop yesterday. 
Complete renovations were need­ed to build the center, located in the basement east wing of LeMans Hall. "It was basically just a big shell with pillars before the renova­tion," said Peter Smith, associate professor of mathematics. 
The funds for the center's com­puters, a total of approximately $500,000, were provided by the College, Smith said. . 
The center, which is comprised of two student labs, currently houses a total of 34 computers. The microcomputer lab, primarily for those students taking the introduc­tory computer course, holds 21 computers. The terminal lab, which is connected to the College's main frame, holds 13 computers and is for those students with a minor in computers. 
The computers chosen for the center are the Zenith model 158, which are IBM compatible. "We got a good deal with Zenith," said Smith. The computers were also chosen for their quality. "They are a good computer with sound ar-
Offenses 
continuedfrom page 1 
ed to a meeting with John 
Goldrick, associate vice president 
for residence life, according to 
Luther. 
When asked if he knew whether 
the University was conducting an 
investigation, Luther said, "I know 
very little about it. There's not 
much I could tell you." 
Asked if the expelled student had 
left a list of the names of users to 
whom he had supplied drugs, 
Luther said, "I cannot verify that." 
A student from Lyons Hall was expelled for drug dealing, accor­ding to a source that chose to re­main anonymous. 
Lyons Hall Rectress Sister Jodie Screes said she refused to affirm that the individual was kicked out. She said only Student Affairs could answer the question. "I think you should get that answer from the horse's mouth," Screes said. She also would not say whether she was involved in the matter. 
When asked if she felt that a drug problem existed on the cam­pus or in Lyons Hall, Screes said, "I would rather not answer that." 
Father Gerald Lardner, rector of Grace Hall, said if a drug problem exists at Notre Dame, it "is analogous to the problem of closet alcoholics." He said that rectors and hall staffs are therefore going to be oblivious to the problem. 
Lardner said he issued a resolu­tion prohibiting the burning of in­cense in the dorm. The ban on in­cense lasted just one week and was voted down by the residents, accor­ding to Lardner. "It is not a current rule in Grace," he said. 
"We talked it over, and it was taken out." He said the initial reason for installing the rule was to prevent "the possibility (incense) was being used to cover up smoking pot." 
When asked how he has been in­volved with Security or Student Af­fairs with drug offense cases, Lard­ner answered, "I don't deal with Security at all. I have not worked with Student Affairs on drug af­fairs this year." 
Lardner said he believed most drug offenses are handled by the hall staff. "I don't think that comes as much of a surprise," he said. 
chitecture," he said. 

For those students interested in learning how to use the new com­puters, workshops are available as well as a four-week course. The class entails the basics of word pro­cessing along with an introduction to using spread sheets. 
A two-hour workshop, taught by Dan Mandell, academic specialist at the center, will be held on Sun­day at 2 p.m. The workshop is geared towards those students who need a quick course in the basics of word processing. 
The center plans to expand in the future. "We intend to continue in­creasing the number of microcom­puters available to students," said John Cook, director of Computer Services. "Our tentative plans are to add more of the Macintosh com-
Senior StaffReporter debate, said Rifkin, who has said. These new techniques repre­
spoken at more than 250 univer-sent a "revolutionary change" in 
Although economist and author sities on the subject. higher education, said Rifkin, Jeremy Rifkin yesterday called According to Rifkin, ethical con­whose le:::ture was sponsored by the genetic engineering ''the most im-siderations of genetic engineering Thomas J. White Center on Law portant technological innovation are significant and the efficiency of and Government. since the harnassing of fire in 4,000 it "should be the most challenged "Faculties are teaching a new ap­B.C.," he remained wary of it. idea today." proach to cognition. They are 
Speaking at the Notre Dame Law Rifkin warned that excessive teaching a new formula School student lounge, Rifkin, genetic manipulation could result knowledge is sympathy with the en­president of the Foundation on in a serious lack of genetic diversity vironment," he said. Economic Trends, said, "There has within certain species, rendering "We must relearn how to par­never been a neutral technology in those species highly vulnerable to ticipate with the environment. And history. extinction by a single genetic it behooves us to ask the big ques­
"The bow and arrow, a disorder. He stated the need to tions now. Should we engineer locomotive, a gun-technology is establish certain criteria by which social life by design? This is the power. It gives us an advantage we genetic engineers can decide what most impressive question facing wouldn't normally have," said genes are functional and what families today except for whether Rifkin, whose speech was ''The Age genes are not. we should drop the atomic bomb," of Transition: From the Industrial In order to deal with the said Rifkin, who has served as a to the Biotechnical Era." ecological and moral implications consultant to congressional com­
Yet such scientific advances as of genetic engineering, universities mittees, industry and labor. 
puters," he said. L---....,.....-------------------------------------' 
The Student Activities Board 
-FREE Cross Country--~ ----Skiing-------­
on the N.D. golf course 
T~ursday, Feb. 27 from 6-9p.m. 
D.J., bonfire & refreshments at clubhouse 
We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
c::ootac::ts, glasses 
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show your J.D. aod receive 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&c::ladlng Specials 



ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage1635 N.lronwood 
234-2400277-1161 
Martin's Shopping South of U.5. 23 Center 


SENIOR CLASS TRIP '87 Attention Juniors!I 
Applications are now available for Chairman of the 1987 Senior Class Trip 
Pick up applications In Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Deadlinefor applying is Friday, February 28, 1986 

The Observer 
Board passes representative swap 
By ROBERT RAPHAEL 
StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance approved a proposal to replace the current Christian Life Commission representative to the board with a Campus Ministry representative Monday night. The proposal came as an effort to strengthen the link between student government and Campus Ministry. 
"CLC (Christian Life Commis­sion) does not have the link with Campus Ministry that we want," said Anne Marie Kollman, student body president, who helped to write the current proposal. 
The Christian Life Commission is a student community that works to increase awareness of the need for spiritual growth and social ac­tion at Saint Mary's. The group sponsors activities such as soup kit­chen visits, blood and food drives and the mini-urban plunge. 
According to Kollman, the pro­blem is that the CLC does not have a direct link to Campus Ministry, but is rather an extension of Cam­pus Ministry. Because of this, stu­dent government is not able to ob­tain desired information from the CLC representative, she said. 
"The current system can be im­proved. It doesn't do what we want it to do," said Kollman. She added that student government would like information on Campus Ministry programs such as the sexuality education program. 
Cath Dahle, current CLC com­missioner and representative to the board, expressed strong support 
The Picture Man Presents 

Junior Parents Weekend ''Proofs on Display'' 
WHERE: LaFortune Student Center WHEN: Thu. & Fri., Feb 27 & 28 Mon., Tues., & Wed., Mar. 3-5 TIME: 11 am -4 pm each day 
Bring your discount coupon 

for the proposal, citing that the CLC does not have full knowledge of the activities of Campus Ministry. 
"All three groups involved, stu­dent government, CLC, and Cam­pus Ministry, support the pro­posal," Dahle said. 
Sister Mary Turgi, assistant director of Campus Ministry and advisor to the CLC, also advocates the proposal. "We are unhappy with the way things have worked out and we know that student government is unhappy," Turgi said. 
"The goal of the proposal is ob­vious and good. Exactly how it is accomplished will have to be work­ed out," Turgi said. 
The proposal also provides for a service commissioner on all hall and class boards, just as these boards have social and athletic commissioners. Thus, the CLC will no longer be directly involved in student government. 
Probes 
continuedfrom page I 

fairs, said he considers drug sales a much different issue than drug use. 
He explained that incidents of drug use in a residence hall is usual­ly dealt with in the same way as alcohol abuse. On a first offense, for example, a person caught smoking marijuana in a dorm would be dealt with by the rector, as is the case with alcohol viola­tions, Tyson said. 
"WE have a totally different perspective on those who distribue 

You're the man in charge. And you can 
handle  it.  Because  the  Navy  has ~i~en  you  
the management  and  technical  training  to  
get  the  job done.  
Thirty  men  report  to  you.  And what  you  

do includes the care and responsibility for millions of dollars worth of sophisticated equipment. 
At age 22 you can be a leader in the Navy. With all the decision-making authority you need to help you match up to your responsibility. 

The rewards match up too. A solid starting salary of $19,200 with regular 
promotions and  increases.  
Responsibility and  rewards.  It's the  
way you  measure  success  in  the  Navy.  

A Navy representative •-ill be at the Government Career Fair on March 6, 1986. Plan to drop by to discuss options which are available to you., 
Or, you may call ahead for additional information, toll-free, at: 
1-&U-382-9404 

NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER. 
L___ 
Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 5 
Physicist says nuclear waste safer than burning of coal 
By THERFSA WEITHMAN finding resulted from research into the risk of cancer from contact with 
News Staff 

buried high level waste, the pro­
Buried nuclear waste results in bability per year of contact, and the 
fewer deaths per year than the bur­number of deaths per year resulting 
ning of coal in the production of from this contact. 
electricity, according to Bernard According to Cohen, high­
Cohen, a University of Pittsburgh level waste is less stable than 
physicist. 

average rock because of the in­
Cohen, winner of the Tom W. creased temperature, the drilled 
Bonner Prize in Nuclear Physics in holes needed to bury the waste, and 
1981, spoke last night at Nieuwland the higher instability of the 
Science Hall about the growing chemical compound. 
concern over the dangers of buried These instabilities, however, are 
mostly compensated for by sealing
radioactive waste. Using colorful overheads the holes, encasing the waste, and 
covered with many complicated converting the high level waste to 

equations, Cohen demonstrated to glass or other rock -like material, 
the audience that more deaths per said Cohen. 
year result from the burning of coal "High-level waste is, in some 
than from buried nuclear waste. respects, however, more secure 
Author of the book "Before It's than average rock," said Cohen, Too Late: A Scientist's Case for whose lecture was sponsored by the Nuclear Energy," Cohen said this department of physics. 
and ... on those who make money on the distribution," he said. "As far as I'm concerned, (distribution) is the epitome of being violent to other people and to the community. 
"Anyone who knows me knows that I am rabid about anybody who is a pusher," he said. 
Goldrick said the student is given a hearing, in which the seriousness of the offense is determined. Then a decision is made to either punish the student, provide counseling or a combination of both. 

But in the case of sales and distribution, Tyson said the deci­sion is very clear cut. "I don't know of any case where sales are involved that a student has not . been suspended or expelled," he said. He added that in these cases, there is very little chance that the student 
would be allowed to return to the University. 
Tyson said for other cases, suspension is not necessarily per­manent. "If a person has gone through a drug rehabilitation pro­gram . . . we're wide open to that student returning," he said. 
Goldrick said that after the Plan­ner and Keenan incident, in which several students were suspended, "the decision was made (to suspend them) on everything we discussed in our conversations (with them)." 
Goldrick said before the recent investigations he did not consider the presence of drugs a large pro­blem on campus. 
"Now that this has happened there must be some problem, but I dont't know the extent of it," he said. 

Your plasma makes adifference. 

Oalference Tne 0111erence De­
tween ' toy IHIJ· ng' normal. Ktlllf ~le a benQ "' onv*l rnew l:lOV5 nave a lj()Q(l OIW'a~ot a110 l"lefrWloiil. wnocn WllOIY mean5 rnat rl"telr lj()Q(l QfV"Ot ClOt llY 1t5ell They Dt"evGNv leO ' or~ ry snetr«ed •re beCalM they cOUIO !lle«l to OYtn from a rTWlOf r,sv TOOiy they canoe rreitecJ With a cion~ fKta ttlir tl"telr own IXlCloeS 
oo 11()( oroauce 
And that dOtting faCtor Is taken frOm the plaSma you donate. 
HOw much plasma 
IS needed? A 101. For examolf!. one 
\1111 Of piWN ~ If!!$ (""' ' t~ful ol till! oonng factor ~need. so Y<lU can 5ee rtte ,_, ta !¥ge ~or p&asma lUSt for ntma­pnoiae\. And tllOuSolfiOS or l.lliH or ~ilte useo 
on to!Qota!S ana 
emergerc:v r()()ITI\ 
~ oav rowve 
INI1"f ·~ 

How Is plasma different trom whole blood? 
~ .s rne loQuoO on whiCn 01000 cellS iltf! tr¥1'.· 
1)01"11!0 AW"Olf'llately half of 01000 IS I)I.)SITI.J Tne 
01000 cells ille ~~arecs fr()'ll VOJI I)IWTia at rne 
oonor center Dv a oroc~\ calleO ~~and 
rerurneo to vos ooov 
rne ~ ta~<eo from 
y0ut 01000 IS abOut 9N mnerai> and water. most of tne rl!fllalllOef IS CI"OU!oi'IS It IS I~ DI"Q­
tetn\ rnar •e useo ro 
Cash For Your donation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PLASMA IS NOT BeiNG ME.T. That's why your donation is important. so important that we'll poy $7.00 for your first donation and $9.00 if you donate a second time within thtt same ....... calendar week. In •.lddition, if you meet the physical requireme1 1ts you'll be given o FREE physical and $60.00 w"th of FREE lob Tests 
Open. TUES., WED., THURS., FRI., 9:()().5:00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Lincolnway West, South Bend 
Bring in this ad for a $4Bonus
New Donors ft 1• 1d 1•
p er your us ona 1on. 
l 
~
, 
I
1 1 
1 

The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 6 


Team Captains of NVA water volleyball and floor hockey will be meeting today. The water volleyball meeting will be held at 4:30p.m., while the floor hockey meeting will be at 5 p.m. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
Mal Moore, former Irish assistant football coach under Gerry Faust, has been named receivers coach of the NFL's St. Louis Cardinals.-the Observer 
The men's varsity crew team will have a man­datotry erg practice today at Saint Mary's. Times are still open from 7:15-8 p.m. This practice is not applicable to those team members who were timed on Tuesday. -The Observer 
. 

A wtestling tournament is being organized by NVA. The tourney will take place march 4-5. There will be an open prac­tice tonight from 7:30-8:30 p.m. in the wrestling room of the ACC. A weigh-in date will be announced shortly. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
Century Club pledge cards must be returned to the NVA office by tommorrow. For more information contact NVA. ­The Observer 
Dr. Willard Y ergler will speak on lower back pain and athletic participation Monday at 7 p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. The presentation, sponsored by NVA, will cover prevention, symptoms, restrictions and therapy for back pain. Anyone interested is welcome, and there is no charge. For more in­formation call NVA-The Observer 
NV A Hydrorobics will be held every Tuesday and Thursday from 12:15-12:45 p.m. beginning March 4. Entry cost is $3. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
NV A cross-country ski rentals are available for a small fee on a regular basis. For more information call NVA. ­
The Observer 

Aerobic instructor applications for the 1986-87 school year are now being accepted by Non-Varsity Athletics. Ap­plications are available at the NVA office through April 4. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
A squash clinic will be held for beginning and novice players on March 5 at 7 p.m. Sign up in advance at NVA. -The Observer 
Tarheels win over Virginia ending streak 
Associated Press 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Jeff Lebo scored 17 points -all in the second half -and Brad Daugherty added 16 to lead third-ranked North Carolina to an 85-79 Atlan­tic Coast Conference basketball victory over Virginia last night. 
The victory snapped a two-game losing streak for the Tar Heels, 26­3 and 10-3 in the ACC, and exacted some revenge for the loss to the Cavaliers earlier this season when North Carolina was undefeated and top-ranked. 
North Carolina, which trailed 37-33 at intermission, came back to take a 51-50 lead with 12:22 left before Daugherty was fouled by Tom Sheehey in the lane. 
lht• Oh.\t'rt't'r '\.orrt 1>.1111< <~IIi<~ 1.., .11ctl "11 lht 1lurd tl .... r ..t 1.11 llrlllll< 
'llltknl < tnlt·r ·"''1'~'-• l.i"1llt·d ·"'" 111'11\~ tr•>~ll" .1111 1111111 t I' 111 \I. •11tl.11 
IIHtiU).:hlrtd.t\ /h.-rl},_,.,.,,., '.IIIII \1.11\ ,,,fflt< l•••.lltd••llll·•. lht~dllooo•fo•l 
ll.l).:).:.lr ( ""'').:l' (<Iller .1\\ lJ'I' \ 1.1"1111 oh lroo111 t 2 '"I' n; 1111111 "I' !11 ,,, •II 
<1.1\ thou~h I ud.l' I h'.hlllll< I•" 111 \I d,l\ , 1.1" 1t11 .,, 1, ~ I' 111 \II , J.1" 1t" .t' 
mu,tht·pn·p.ud cllhtrlllf'<l'<•ll••rh\ rn.11l < h.lf).!t1' l•••<lll'l'•·rll\t ,h,1r.1,
Classifieds 
lcr' ·r da\ 


Pteue be cool and return my ladiee' TICKETS needed for DAYTON game­
One more time ... Midweet dead! We go ACTUALLY TEIIPUT IS REALLY Selko gold watch! t loet It belwMn P.E. GA or atudent-call1539 awimmlng. When the going get1 tough. ABOUT HOW THE DESIRE TO AC·NOTICES and North Dining Hall on Tu11 (2125) mor­the aprintera get lat. OK, 1,2,3-let'l go OUtRE AND EXERCISE POWER OF· ning. Clll Ann at 4416. ThankS I loti t NEED 2 DAYTON GAa $$$$! ALLEN ffilh! TEN LEADS TO IMMORAL AND 4245 DESTRUCTIVE ACTIONS. AIN'T THAT 
HolM rnaeaztne and WVFI would •~w THE TRUTH
Typing Availlible Miranda, 
to tt.n1c everybody who CHI8 out to
287-4082 Need 3 or 4 GAa for Dayton-Mwch 8. Bill So that' a where thet'llrom. the Die Krwzen conc.rt on llonGrt GOODWILL PARTY WEAR YOUR NEW3467
FOR RENT flltht. Drtve Mfely,ld._ CLOTHES FROM GOODWILL TO THURSDAY NIGHT ClUB ON CORBY 
Ferdinand 
TYPING I need DAYTON tix. cal Brian It 2937. 
CHARMING, GOOD-LOOKING Alumni
CAL.LCHNI 

FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO Hal freehmen IHklng datea 10 Irish
2JoWII7. IAN DIEGO, CA. FOR EAITER 0.. Kelly end Ju•e. ThankS for making
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 2876389. Wake. Applicationa can be obtlined at
.aAKII 

NO Club d MilWaUkee invitea you to JPW dinner apac:ill. We look forward to
165 Alumni Hal Of call 2258 llly1ime • 24 
................................................................ ROUNDTRIP TICKET-oNLY 200.0011 
ND V8 MARQUETTE IIMKETaALL you aerving u1 again IOmellme(Mw 15)!
hotnaday!!

.utiNDa EXPMU, INC. CAU.1041 
PARTY Your table.321 Bil and Frank 
Wordpro c1111"1 end typing 

Saturday, Mwch 1 at Tuman Hall, 1034212..27 I LOYe You ST. JUDE 
WANTED N. 4th, acr011 from Milwaukee Arena.
WANTED:TICKETS FOR THE DAYTON Game on Slg Screen TV. II you have MARAUDER elllenda our ~eciation to
GAME! WILL PAY BIG BUCKS, NO Hila all 10 EO LaHOOD lor a laruattc
game tix, join 1.11 afl...--dl tor huge buf·
WHAMMIE. CALL RICK AT 1828. the NO lnemen who uvect our 1v11 mon.
DPI!RT TYPING IIIMCE. CALL J.P.W. Prllidenfl Dinner! Kllp up the
CAMP COUNSELORS POSITION AT fet with the teem. Student tlcketa $10; in­nita our faithful ,.,.from OLD COLLEGE, 
-.COKER. ZA-1001. 
good work.

cludee bevetaQM. 0oor1 open at noon.
YMCA STORER CAMPS ON STONY NEED 3 Dayton GA'I orlltud. tlx ..C.olyn FARLEY, P.E. AUGUSTA HALL. LEWIS PRO-TYPE,._......, llw,..,..., ch­LAKE NEAR JACKSON, MICHIGAN. 4042 HALL,SORIN KEENAN HALL ALUMNI
Corby T -lhirta and 

wlllhne, etudenl.,..,.._ 277-1111. ~D. AGES 7·17, UNIQUE IOPHOIIOIIE HAlL MOREAU SEM. our epedallrienda
Corduory Hall For Sale
PROGRAMS: HORSES, AQUATICS, TURN DAYTON TICKETS INTO BEER COT/WON that attended al our llhowa 11 Senior bar
································································ Shirll· $8
ATTN: STUDENTS SAILING, WILDERNESS ADVENTURE, VIA MONETARY UNITS. TERRY 237· COTIU.ION Old c:dage and It ltepan -NOISE
Hall· $10

Dolorll Franc:il typing MrYice INTERNATIONAL EMPHASIS. FOA 8080 conwON MAGAZINE thoee beautifulllrt and theo
$16 for 1 pair phone number change FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: majora (we love you) thank you and hope 
Cal3525

2n-e131 Ann Wiedemann PHONE:283-2805. ................................................................. to ... you on our neJrt tour date 
................................................................ 

ITOP UIING HX MA WEAPON MARAUDER 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. NEED 2 DAYTON TIX GA'S Of STUDENT $16,040-$58,230/yr. Now Hiring, Call1· cal Brian at 288-5270 
Ne«t roome for graduation? Enjoy Bed 'N Mary a.th, lorry no Y~Mnt~na ..
805-687-8000 Ext. R-8634 for current Breakfutin lovelyhomll. 21 8-291·7153. Janglel, lhe II beautiful and llhe il cool. forthcoming. You could .-y t eot a lilt

federal fiat. My entire hometown ie coming to ...the 
'the heM! 2 from GO ~ for time (or MIMittlngl) At
lriah deetroy Dayton. I need7 TIX (lltudent 
Rioe..i«...2:··-;;;··Fiii:ieAs..N'ee.i:ie·i:i...iO .._aom111 ady made up tor my omle­
Of GA) tor the folkll! Hyou have lilY tix 
Hoop Hyateria 1hirta atiM avlilabtel!! llon. Congr8la on the c:nw acana.
Collmbua, OH I OSU lor Feb 28 • Merch tjve me a call at 2947!1 Aek for Mary. 
All aizea. Stop by Room 221 Stanford tt.ve a ..-.time with your temHy thleAI you intrepid aoull who want to go to 1. call Mike at 288·5355. ................................................................ Purdue wil have to find enother riclll, be­S$$ HELP! NEED 2 TO 4 GA'S FOR 
Of cal 2078/2089 Tom-Thia ia our beloved 100 in whom we weekend, and In Ohio. VIctory to my cauM Gertie and her ~mobile wil be 
RIOE NEEDED TO N.E. OHIO ON 28 MARCH 8 DAYTON GAME.CALL CHRIS M'e well pleaaed. Thankl for JPW. It -roommate! Jult Plain Wonderful! love, Mama D and
hitting the high roec:t to Chle8QO thil FEB OR 1 MAR CALL CHUCK AT 1966 3738 
Ded You lrnow th•t aong by JamN Teylor
weekend, • e2 mph Of 10. c.n an AMC 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 
about frlenda? Yoo lrnow how It goea, e

do lhllt? S.V•II cope aure tholqlt 10. Need ride to....... NYC ........ Ieeving either NEED ONE DAYTON TIX. CALL 284· 
272-HIKE. Delivery hou,.: 5pm-12am hey CORKY nice WIPE OUT SURFS UP couple of InN (which nobody canMa)tle we1 be hitting the Hooeier high· Thi.WI., 27 Of Fri. 28. I wil pay $$$$$$$$!1 4052 OR 284-4048. 
Monday·Thu...CS.y; 5pm-2am Friday; but what about the aign!! remember) end then got e
"You'veCal Scott-4186

wava•n aft• break. 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
Need c-yton tlcketa In a 1110 -.y...lf friend?" ("When you're down and 
................................................................ 
you ._.. help, pleMe «** ~. troubled and you nHd a helping twld.....
I have to get to NYC !hie weekend. t need 
Tll8nlca. etc...even though Phil didn't lrnow it but 
IBuy!*. Pay upto$1,000!!1 CootactAiat a riclll on Thi.WI. 27 or Frt 28. 1 wil pay Thac.lar 
10me oth• nice petiOil with a good t:nin

$$$$11 P'-a help me out! cal SCOTT-Now HM Compact Dlaca!!!
3155. 
did.) Wei! Chu, Cllalwlclr, CIIMIM, buddy, {JM, you lrnow wflo to cal. Thanlrl

LOST/FOUND I 
4186 ONLY13.PP 
NEED RIDE TO CHICAGO NW SUB­
for the apeciiiiHmut•. Sorry about the

CHARMING, GOOO-lOOt<ING Alumni We now have a fuM lalection of WindhamURBS FRI RETURN SUN.BOB 1751 
WIU. THE PERSON WHO BORROWED Hal lrllhmen Meklng dalee to triah Hlljazz and a-lealworka. Why pay $17 v.lanfine. I love ye even ff I am • ~ Wake!!! Application. can be obtained at lor a CD? All of ou,. we $13.99 everyday! cadet, f•nd not 1 very conc/latoty one at
SUPER CHIEF PLEASE RETURN IT TO WANTED: RIDE TO INDY THIS 
165 Alumni Hal. The c.lar m.t.) o.tz
108 KEENAN OR CALL 3217. WEEKEND. 
PERSONALS 
LaFortune BaMmentPLEASE CALL MARY KATE, 4174. 
playing with tire getl you bumecl ... and I'm LOST: GOLD CUP ON EARRING ON 

································································ ST. PATS PARTY AT TIVOLI'S tor the llil burring
SOUTH QUAD. SENTIMENTAL VALUE 
t i• by not alweya thinking ol yourN/f 
UNITED WAY I $.50 GREEN DRAFT MUDER MUDER MUDER MUDERFROM PALESTINE. REWARD! CALL OVERSEAS FEMALE NEEDS OFF· 
that you might .amedey be h~py. Unlil MUOER!I ODE TO DENNIS DOLAN
BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 
233-3668. CAMPUS HOUSING. IF LOOKING FOR 
you melle room In your life foraomaone u DENNIS LOST IT THIS WEEKEND. IT IS 
SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISHR()()t.MMTE NEXT YEAR CALLX4120. 
import.nt to you u you,..,, you w/1 M­To my favorite acope in Emil'l c1a11-Kim TRUE
BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALELOST! LOST! LOST! lloet my btle t.ck· 
qyabelonely and•NIChingand1oat .. Garriaonllooking good!! I TOOK IT WITHOUT ASKING, WHAT
NOW

l*kon the bookr.ctc In South Dining Hill COULD HE DO? 
on Tueedey, Feb. 18. I you found It, I 
• Richwd Bach. I TOLD YOU I WAS OUICK,5 SECO...OS 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE KMLwould appreciate It being relllmad. It OOflo 
The~ Acroaa Fcnv• FLATllina a broken Sanyo redlo, aiCal'f, an old FOR SALE ................................................................ aM WINTER FEIT1VALIII IT FELL.I GRABBED,IT HAPPENED
2 MILE RELAY(the bell In the U.S.A.)pair d WtcvM, and llllet'lll biology The lacrfi ol flndng eomeone to love Congratulationa I!! 2 MILE RELA Y(going FEB. 24 • MAR. 1 CRQSS-COUNTRY UKETHAT. 
periodc rnlg8li,_ PlaMa cal me in the SKIING, BEACH PARTY, UNDERGRAO 
Correcting typewriter and table. Will ae1 i1 flrlt finding eomeona to lire. to win the N.C.A.A.'I) YMh, that' I right I!! YOU CALL ME. YOU BEG ME TO GIVE 
evenlngutx1n6. Thanklatot. • RlchwcJ Bach, NITE IT BACK, 
...-.rely Of together. catl1265 ' 2 MILE RELAY : John "albino" McNeill• The~ Acroaa Fcnver Rob "Mr. Eugene" Noblea, Jeff "dropped BUT THIS, MY DEAR. YOU WIU. 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR THURSDAY FREE CROIS-COUNTRY IKIINGIII FOREVER LACK. 
A..oA COMPUTER IYSTEM from an eirplane" Wie Wla, and the everTHE 20TH A TAN LONDON FOG 512 KB Expandllbte to 8.5 MB. Superb Every COMtell«ion ie bute ~arlngol lamoua Jim "I got a new hair dew every THURSDAY. FEB. 27, NOTRE DAME REVENGE IN ME, DID YOU DOUBT, WINTER COAT SIZE 42 LONG. CALL color graphica with over 4,000 oolcn. di-.nt euna. h le mere pwepective that other clay" Tyler. Again, congratutationa GOL.FCOURSE CLUBHOUSE. 6:00 • THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING OF A TERRY AT 1650 IF FOUND. 
Special 25 percent dlec:ount lor NO llu· make~ s.telgeuN a ltW. Se«J eo1ole from the cartooniat TEX. 9:00 P.M. REFRESHMENTS, D.J., FUN VERY LONG BOUT. dania and faculty. auRKAT COIIPUTEJII enouglllha II e raging fire. A apllwe ot UNDER THE STARS!!! 
L.oet a brown hat priiUmllbly In the dining 
CENTIR IJaming hydroflen, If It be ,_.,, w/1 Na.l Ridln to Green Bay (a.k.a. Mar· hal If found pleue contact Mike at A TRIP TO PADUCAH 
287·3344 dominate the lky and blot out al the lee· quette). Between ridera llao. Leeving 
(X2516) Thin. and returning If in­I uked 1 guy named PETEY, to join me in 
let' /lghr.. And IUCh • fire w/1 •Y~n, Sunday. 
1M WINTER FUTIVAL .EACH 
a trip to my hometown, city. We left at lix

"Ewthm~~lrer huelving Son.·· tereated, cal Uz at 4161. 
PARTYIll

-HEY YOU -Stealing tap11 from a and got in afix when we diacov•ect my
AIRLINE TICKET to Miami !Mving South 

party ia major uncool. Someone tent u1 PRE-SPRING BREAK BASH IN SOUTH parenta weren't in the vicinity. So until BiM
Benet 7 a.m. March 12 return Mlrch 18. • Celvin Miler, 
~ tapll and would Wke them back. H DINING HALL, 9:00 • 1:00 A.M., UVE end Ede came home all ov• Paducah wa
cal616-&41·7372. Theil.... 
BAND "COLD DRINKS", NACHOS, did roam, then 10 Jerimiah'l to chow onyou have a guilty conecience ~ng thia FREE SUNGLASSES. BEACHBAU.S. ~led frOIJ'Iega end 20oz. d cow. Back tolenten eeuon-juat drop the tapea in our Bunny, AND A TRIP FOR TWO TO FT. the houM we flew to watch Miami be em­maiH)ox...you know where we lve. 
I mieaect you yeaterday . . could I in-
Airline ticket to Miemi leaving South Bend LAUDERDALE, COME DRESSED IN banuled by the gold and blue. We left 
IM"eet you in eome ltl'awberry
7 Lm. March 12. return March 18. Cal YOUR SWIMSUITS! Paducah in the after noon but realized lhia FOUND: SILVER CROSS AT THE ROCK 
che•ecake?
616-841·7372. Chrie, Dan. Jerry, and the whole wreetling waen't to aoon for midway up the llinoie
FEB. 10TH. CALL X1581 TO ClAIM. Can't find the Bunny 
teem: Good luck at Regionall! Beth and aM UNDERGRAD. NIGHT!! I atate we ran into anow coming clown It an CLUELHI ON CONCEPTII?I Di WRAP UP THE WINTER FESTIVAL incredible rete. So we atoppecl at the
FOUND: A pair olaun-gialles at 86 daya Putbug,
NO TIME TO COPY KOZAK'S DEFINI· ................................................................ WITH FRIENDS AND FUN AT THE Holidome, in Klllkakee whir1pootecl,
'til graduation party. Clll Tim at 2530. We can't do Frou Frou without firlt awam. but NO violation of aection 8. Now
TIONS(11 PAGES!) SPRING BREAK BOSTON SPRING ALUMNI·SENIOR ClUB. SATURDAY,
finiahing theltl'awberry lroeting ... 
we we blck in South Bend 10 my t.1e

WEll, YOU'RE IN LUCK! FOR A BREAK BOSTON SPRING BREAK 8QS. MAR. 1, 9:00 • 1:00 A.M., AOMISSION IS 
HAS ANYONE SEEN A GOLD. TWIST T.B. 
muat end, 'tiN anoth• weekend we'l try it PIERCED EARRING? May be between 
UMITED TIME ONLY·CONCEPTI TO TON Doll anyone need two interllling FREE 
.n.

QOI $2 Leave name and number with people aa ridera on the wey 10 BOSTON
IAirlry, lahm, and Lewia. La.t 1 month OAR HOUlE: COLD aEER 6 UQUOR.
Wayne 114010 or Ellen at 4571 Fri. Mwch 21 or Sat Mwch 22? Wllllhare 
ago. PleaM call3861. CAMY OUT TO J A.ll. U.l. 11 N., 1 MR. WONDERFUL, FUZZ, T.D., and
gaa, of courte. Going to NEW YORK
aLOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. Weda... Thura...Fri ... Dan Flather in Sioux DUSTER: The longeat trip to <Wv•
STATE via Albany, SyriiCUM. or
FOUND ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24 , Fall, South DakcMa.... A logicalatep after browni•. How do you play pokM"? 4'1 are 
RodleatM'?, we'l nclll along, too. Pleaae
A PAIR OF GREY RIMMED GLASSES YOUNG TMVEUIEM NEWILETTERI the Geneve Conf•ence. Catch the ac­5'1, 5'1 are 6'1, 7'1 and a·a are wild.
call3861. 

OUT IN FRONT OF NIEWLAND lncludii:BOO no.; travel partner tion! Duster. wh•e did the beer apil? You we SCIENCE BUILDING. CALl PAT aervice;faaturee on exotic OVERIEAI ................................. . ......... ...... going to put me doWn With the rockl?
TICKETS

WALSHAT4188. budget travel, work, lludy! Send check Deer Krik. t would love more than anyth­HELP! DESPERATELY SEEKING RIDE Who's llo? WIU aomeone llhut h• up? ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N.. P.O. Box 3887, New ing to go to your formal. love, the Super TO INDY THIS WEEKEND. PLEASE Crazy glue her hpe. It won't work, lhia tape LOST:amall blue gucci ooin­Haven. CT. 06525 Snorer CALL MARY KATE, 4174. ia broken. Who atole my llhadee? Do you puqallulydlaln ~ Hultey and Need 4 Dayton tile (lludant orGA). guya have any vllium.l n--.viverin? We partdng tot. ALL my 10 ia illliclll ao ~ PIMM cal Mary Elen It 3855 Of ~ FREE COUPONIInttle yelowpaeaa of WILD 6 WOOU. Y, lmporta from Eruador. DAVE MIKLOS turned 21 laat Friday. H hate playing poker with girtl! Thankl for a cai272-IJ781 If found or tum Into lilY loet 5303. Blg$1 tt1e c.npua Telaphone Dnc~ory. Uea 111 Floor LaFortune Atrium, Feb. 26-27, you -e too buay with your parentl to good lime. Can we dolt again eornetime? -.!found. 8-5pm. buy him a drink. do It now! ·Ole Poker Face. The Drunk, and Weezie
them..,, 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••, .........., ••••• \'''f'''''''·"''''''' 
r 
The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 7 

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· Vqda~ & ..,_t D~ltn FOODS 
SHAWBIUIA • MUGBDERA • BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS· FELAFEL 
TEBBOULI SAI.AD 

SOUTH lEND • LEBANESB STYLE 
• Pit• SIM/fH ~ GYROS 
• CH~hctul Putri~•• TUI'II~h Cof(~e 288-5639 
Tuee • Sat 5:10PM. 9:30PM COMPLBTBC'ATEitiNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES & BANQUET.f: 
1O%Discount for ND/SMC Students 



CAREER DAY "DETROIT 
Thurs. March 6th 

WHO: Anyone interested in *accounting *Advertising* Finance *Law *Public Relations 
WHAT: Spend a day with an Alum & find out what goes on in 
THE REAL WORLD 

COST:$15.00 (includes trans., hotel & dinner) Sponsored by the Alumni Association 
EN: Bus leaves Wed. 7:00pm return Thur. 11om 
···~·············


PLICATIONS: Only 30 openings! (/ir8t come, first serve) 
DUE: Friday, Feb. 28 Alumni Office 2ndfloor Ad. bldg. 
AVAILABLE IN 
also 132 Hayes-Healy 


~·················· 

TH 

oaY $5. 
Right now, you can get the hearty THURSDAY TH!CK ONE for only five bucks! A thick 12" pizza with pepperoni, double cheese and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery in less than 30 minutes. So call Domino's Pizza and ask for the THURSDAY THICK ONE. Our drivers carry less than 
$20.00. limited delivery area. No 
coupon necessary. 
2n-21s1 
1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 

DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DEUVERS• 
FREE. 

Grace dominates interhall hockey, undefeated Alumni beats Carroll 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
The interhall hockey regular 
season ended Tuesday as Grace re­
mained undefeated through some 
tough police work on Off-Campus 
Crime in their 3-0 victory over last 
year's champions. 
In the night's first match, Alum­
ni defeated Carroll by a score of 7­
2. Alumni (7-0) was the only other team besides Grace to finish the regular season unbeaten. 
In what interhall referee and var­
sity hockey player Pat Foley said 
was one of the best played interhall 
games he had ever seen, both Grace 
and OC were verv aggressive, and 
both received fine performances 
from their goalies. 
"We stuck to our game plan, and we forced mistakes," said Grace player-coach Jim Rataczak. "It is always an emotional game when we play OC since they have beaten us in the last three championships, and tempers flared but we kept our heads about us." 
"We played a good two-way game, and we felt that we had the edge offensively, We forechecked well, keeping the puck in their zone, which is our strong point." 

Grace goalie Phil Coghlan's first shutout this season came at ~" no­portune time as he continuously stopped numerous OC scoring plays, many during Grace penalty minutes. 
Grace scored their first goal after its relentless offensive pressure finally broke through the sharp goaltending of OC's Glenn Wagner when defense man Tom Elliott fired a shot from the blue line and right wing Mike Prendergast tipped it in. 
The second goal for Grace came off of a Tim Kirk slapshot as Rataczak chipped the puck past 
Wagner. In the second half, center 
Drew "Tripper" Spesard netted the 
last goal with a broken stick, as 
defense man Mike Marino recorded 
the assist. 
"We blew numerous scoring op­
portunities but still prevailed 
through our strong goaltending," 
said Marino. "The freshmen, in­
cluding Steve Bishop, played well 
as we outclassed OC," said 
Spesard , who had two tripping 
penalties. 
Grace will face Pangborn in the 
first round of the playoffs. "We 
have to take one game at a time," 
said Elliott. "We came together on 
defense, and we backchecked well, 
as the forwards covered on defense. 
We have to improve on rebounding 
around the net for easy goals." 
"Pangborn played Alumni tough, and they are capable of the upset because they have explosive players," said Rataczak. "We have to work on bench organization, and we have to cut down on the penalties." 
Alumni, the Corrigan League 
champion, will face Cavanaugh/Howard, the runner­up in the Krause League, at the ACC on March 6 in what promises to be a great playoff battle. 
Alumni features a high powered scoring machine to go along while giving up only an average two goals per game. Meanwhile, Cavanaugh/Howard favors a solid defensive style of play to comple­ment a well-balanced scoring at­tack. 
Alumni was never seriously challenged as they constantly hounded Carroll's side of the ice. Carroll (3-4) finished its season on a three-game losing skid. 
Alumni was paced by Pat Hogan's five goals, and Bill Harr­ington scored twice to account for the Dogs' scoring. Despite the easy 
win, Alumm captam John Kalten­
mark said his team will have to play 
better come playoff time. 
"We will have to come up with a 
complete game against 
Cavanaugh/Howard in order to 
win," said Kaltenmark. "Our 
backchecking especially will need 
to be better." If Kaltenmark's 
squad does not heed his advice, 
look for Alumni to be in the cham­
pionship game. 
Last Thursday night, Cavanaugh/Howard (4-1) secured a playoff berth by skating past Flanner (0-5) by a 7-1 score. Its vic­tory put the final nail in Off­Campus' coffin, as last year's in­terhall champions were eliminated from post.;season play. Jim Mejia led the way with two goals for Cavanaugh/Howard. 
Cavanaugh/Howard has one re­maining regular season game left to play against Morrissey. Flanner will try to avert a winless season as they take on Holy Cross/St. Ed's in its finale. 
Captain John Oteri of Cavanaugh/Howard is viewing the Morrissey game as a chance for his dug to fine tune its game. "We want to play Morrissey as if it were a play or game to get the guys in a good frame of mind," said Orteri. "I think we can beat Alumni if we play our game, this means the key for us is to play solid defense. Our most encouraging sign, though, is that we should be our healthiest since the beginning of the season, since we have really missed the ser­vices of some of our guys." 
In other games, Stanford (U-5-1) managed to tie Fisher (2-3-1) at 2-2. Zahm (4-2), who has played very consistent all season, won easily over Sorin (0-6) by a 7-1 margin. Dillon (3-3) finished its campaign with a 7-2 victory over Morrissey (1-3-1). 
NCAA head says recruiting is root 
Assodated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. Recruiting is the only thing wrong with college sports, and alumni ahd boosters must be disassociated from athletic programs, NCAA Ex­ecutive Director Walter Byers said Tuesday. 
"The only weakness we have is in the area of recruiting," Byers told a group of sports writers and coaches who attended the NCAA's annual College Football Preview. 
"The contest, as I see it, is essen­tially whether the presidents and chancellors uphold the stewardship of higher education and set the policy for college athletics or whether a minority of unscrupulous coaches and inflam­ed, immature boosters and alumni are going to set policy." 
Byers threw his support behind a Southwest Conference amendment, proposed and then withdrawn at last month's NCAA convention, which would have limited all recruiting contacts to a school's staff members. 
Current rules prohibit what the NCAA terms "representatives of an institution's athletic interests"-i.e., alumni, boosters -from any off­campus recruiting. 
Byers called the action of the NCAA Presidents Commission at last June's special convention in pushing through tougher penalties for major rules violations "a good first half." 
He said it is "time now to move forward," citing the mood of most NCAA members as "a renaissance of a spirit and a willingness to con­duct intercollegiate athletics in an honorable fashion." 
But he said the NCAA needs help from its members in cleaning up violations, which he said will "never reach 100 percent purity." 
"The next step is to embrace at least the concept of the Southwest Conference proposal and remove outsiders, boosters, non-staff members from the recruiting pro­cess." 

~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 8 
Youth volunteer · ~ i( 
Cochiolo leads Irish swimmers ~~\6~ 
All You 
byKATHLEENMc.KERNAN Cochiolo hopes to contmue swim team travels to Chicago for 
d'-0~ Care to Eat 
Sports Writer similar work after graduation. She the weekend's Midwest Invitational 
f \':• 

.. 
~ 
' ~ ! 
t 
\ 
j \ 
\ 
' 
-~ 
-~ 
''· 
t 
r. 
'· 
I• 
''­
' 
( 
f­
,, 
r. 
f 
r 
r'~ 
r< r ( \ 
~-. 
( 
r 
r· 
~ 
~ 
is in the Arts & Letters Pre-Championship meet. She is confi­
In the past few years, Venette Professional Program with a major dent of the teams's chances of per­Cochiolo has done more than break in psychology. While at one time forming well and perhaps of break­school swim records. She has she aimed to go on to medical ing some records. become involved with programs in­school and eventually practice "This will be the big meet to volving the area's youth such as the pediatric medicine, now she is plan-break the records," Cochiolo said. NCAA Volunteers for Youth Pro­ning to become a psychologist. "Most of the records from last year gram, the Early Childhood were set at this meet. It's a matter Development Center, and research In addition, she has led the swim of timing. The whole season we try projects at the Psychicatric Center. team to an 8-3 final regular season to work up our season's best times. 
The senior co-captain, while not record. As co-captain, Cochiolo We feel strong right now." working on her breaststroke, is has been a steadying influence for preparing for a future in the team. "We're going to try to re-set as psychology through her volunteer "Venette's a strong team leader," many records as possible and do as work. Notre Dame head colach Tim well as we possibly can at this 
"I enjoy working with young Welsh said. "She has been around meet," said Welsh. ''The dozen or people," Cochiolo said. ''Especial­big meets, and she has strong in­so teams at this meet are ly adolescents. I've always enjoyed dividual and relay team perfor­significantly faster than some of 
them a lot." mances. She is a good model for the others we've faced. We do have 
As a freshman and sophomore, the younger swimmers." the luxury this year, though, of be­Cochiolo worked with a South Cochiolo has finished second ·in ing both a dual meet team and a Bend teenager in the NCAA only one breaststroke race this championship team." Volunteers for Youth Program. season. Since Dec. 8, when she lost Since relay scores will have twice 
The program is similar to the Big the 200-yard event by only one­the value of individual events at Brothers/Big Sistersprogram as tenth of a second in a meet with this meet, the five relays will be Cochiolo explained it, with one rna-. Ball State, Cochiolo has gone especially important for the Irish. jor exception -the volunteers are undefeated in the individual With Cochiolo and company at supposed to be a friend to the stu­breastroke competition. their strongest after a calculated dent. tapering of their training, Notre 
"The kids in the program have a She will put that string on the Dame expects to do make the most 
problem," Cochiolo said. "They line startinR today as the women's of this championship meet. 
have problems within their families. They really need a friend. 
"I think it really helps them a lot. You go out and play softball with them, show them around campus, just be their friend. 
"It was a lot of fun, too. I stop­ped doing it junior year because the things started going a lot better with the girl, but it was enjoyable for both of us." 
In her junior year, Cochiolo helped at the Early Childhood Develpment Center at Saint Mary's with the three-year-olds. This year, she has been doing a research pro­ject with adolescent mothers in the area. 
"We've been studying their parenting styles," Cochiolo said. "Right now we're in the process of collecting data and conducting in­terviews." 
Student Government 
iS • • • 

Questions? Comments? Concerns? Call239-7668 

BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
TESlN-TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET 


1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 

A Reminder that the Deadline for Nominating a Senior Student 
for the 

Distinguished Student Award 
•
IS 

Friday, Feb. 28 
Nomination forms are available in the Campus Ministry Office Memorial Ubrary, the Center 
for Social Concerns or the Alumni Office (201 Admin. Bldg.) 
OCEAN
PERCH
Available Dine-In Only 
Friday night is special at Big Boyl All­you-care-to-eat of our delicious deep fried Perch, so crisp on the outside, tender and flaky inside PLUS French Fries, Lemon Wedge, Dinner Roll, Vegetable AND Soup & Salad Bar 
$399 
4986 

/7~~/¥'~ ~-tdlo~7Ut 
Slarc]J '1  ht.  Allrn <5insbrrg  
fllarc]J 2  hn.  N . .,,ott Blomabsu  
Slarc]J 3  .fllon.  Alan IJugan  
Slarc]J4  <Burs.  Staru <Olturr  
fllarc]J 5  •rbs.  Eonalb hktnick!llort &tgal  
rc}J 6  <B}Jurs.  C!Uauton £s}Jltman  
:8lardJ7  Jiri.  Eobtrt QJ:ormirr  

.Jtlll~uUH 
~tdthe 
~~ td8:(){) of'lk~ 
~~~ rH~uJ lllliH~ J :J?.AtW c~~ ~ 
AbmiB•hm lB ~m ~~$0#Ud 
To The Staff Of University Food Services 
Congratulations on the Professionalism and Excellence displayed in your work for the 1986 Junior Parents Weekend. Friday night's "Broadway Comes to Notre Dame" was an extraordinary display of Food, Service, and Showmanship -4000 attended. 
The Quality of Food and Service provided to the President's Dinner was accomplished with Class -even though attendance was staggering! College and School Workshops-V.I.P. and Parents Receptions-numerous orders for evening Dorm Parties -were accomplished in the middle of all these programs without a hitch. 
The Closing Brunch on Sunday was prepared elegantly, though it was a cruncher with 600 more people than planned for. And the tremedously long hours put in by all of you, from early morning to the wee hours of the next morning, showed true dedication. 
MY HIGHEST ADMIRATION! YOU ARE A CREDIT TO THE UNIVERSITY! 
THANKS FOR ALL YOU DO FOR NOTRE DAME. William J. Hickey, Jr. Director of University 
Food Services 


The Observer Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 9 
MANAG.ER APPLICATIONS 
are now available for the NEW Undergraduate Club in LaFortune for the 1986-87 academic year! 
Positions Available: 
General Manager 
Rentals Manager 
Food/Beverage Manager 
Promotions Manager 
Programming Manager 
--You are invited to attend a Slide-Lecture-• 
in The Annenberg Auditorium THE SNITE MUSEUM OFART 
'WHATIS ART?' 

SYMBOLISM: INTERPRETING ARTISTS' IMAGES 
THURSDAY, February 27 ---. 8:00pm 
' 

"Ego and Dream: The personalization of Symbol in 19th & 20th Century Art" 
.._________ by Marjorie Kinsey------· Assistant Professor Department of Art, Art History and Design 
Open to the public. Students admitted FREE. 

.._____Sponsored by The Friends of The Snile Museum of Art ____.. 
r~~~l 
(The Boss with the Sauce) proudly ents 

Engineering student 
Willis is Irish defensive stalwart 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Sports Writer 

Lavetta Willis of the Notre Dame 
women's basketball team is the type 
of player who normally eludes the 
headlines of the sports pages, since 
she is a combination defensive 
specialist and student-athlete. 
"She is the unsung hero of the 
team who does a lot of little 
things," says Irish assistant coach 
Mary Murphy. "She draws the 
tough defensive assignments 
against either the big kid or the 
smaller, quicker guard. She blocks 
out very well, while doing the in­
tangible things. 
"And in another sense, she is comparable to (Notre Dame foot­ball player and stand-out student) Greg Dingens in that she majors in electrical engineering and has a large academic load. She misses some practices because of labs and such." 
Willis was academically inelligi­
ble for the latter portion of her 
sophomore season, but since then 
she has rebounded and made her 
presence felt for the Irish. 
She believes her own personal philosophy matches up pretty well with the team's. 
"I like defense and when I came here they pronounced defense as the way to win, and I got into that," says Willis, a 5-11 junior from Wayne, Mich. "On offense, you make all the moves, but on defense, you react to other people, and that is exciting. We are ranked third in the country in defense because every player is thinking the same way." 
On such a young team with many freshmen and sophomores, leader­ship from the upperclassmen can shape the character of the team. 

"Willis is a hard worker, positive in a quiet way, who leads by exam­ple," says Murphy. 
"She is an example in the classroom, showing that you can 

Lavetta Willis 

challenge yourself academicaliy and still compete well. And she really goes after -it when she is angry." 
"When I saw Trena Keys work hard, I wanted to work hard, so I try to set the same example," says Willis. "Engineering is something I really wanted to do, and the coaches are very understanding. When a round of tests comes up, I may miss practice, and they ac­comodate." 
For Willis, schoolwork always comes before basketball. When she was in high school, she registered and paid to attend the Five Star basketball camp during the sum­mer. But when she was accepted to an engineering camp at Ohio State, she deferred basketball camp and 
lost her entry fee. 
"What motivates me is the desire 
to do my best," she says. "In high 
school, I made basketball 
something I like to do, want to do, 
and take pride in. But I always 
knew that I wanted to be an 
engineer, especially after that camp 
focused my area of concentration. I 
know it will be hard, but I am going 
to do it no matter what." 
Willis came from a sports­
oriented family. Her father played 
basketball for Lane College, and 
was an important influence on her. 
Her sister Kim ran hurdles at Ohio 
State, coached at Michigan State, 
and is now involved in corporate 
physical therapy. 
"I enjoyed all sports and was 
very versatile," says Willis. "My 
greatest achievement in high 
school, outside of getting a scholar­
ship here, was first-team all-state. 
When you work hard, you want to 
be rewarded." 
The Irish coaches would like to 
see her improve on the offensive 
side. 
"Willis has to develop more con­
fidence in her offensive shooting 
and play," says Murphy. 
"I'm not confident in my offen­sive skills, and I cannot expect my teammates to be confident in me under these circumstances," says Willis. 
"I'm fine in practice, but I lack it (offense) in the game. I have to practice outside shooting because I'm not big inside. I cannot post up, so I have to play face-to-face. My hand injury earlier this season af­fected my shooting because I thought about it too much, but I'm over that now." 
Deadline for applications is Wednesday, March 12.
•

Interviews will be March 17-19. Pick up applications in the 
Student Activities Office, 1st Floor of LaFortune. 
i The Observer 
I 
I I 
Forward 
continuedfrom page 12 
Donald Royal matured into a steady contributor. This change, however, did not affect Dolan's powerful play underneath or the court savvy that he had built as a trademark over the previous seasons. And this year, the steady play has continued, so much so that Phelps feels that his big inside player may have saved his best season for his last. 
"Dolan has been to.the front line what David Rivers has been to the back court," notes Phelps....Where he's improved this year is scoring, as was obvious in the Marquette game here. His screens, his passing, and his defensive rebounds that lead to fast breaks all go unnoticed in the box score. But he's made us that much more effective this year." 
The soft-spoken Dolan agrees that his current role has made him a more complete player, and hopes his play can continue to mesh with his teammeates as well as it has thus far on the 20-5 Irish season. 

I \ "Everyone on the team has a cer­
l ) 
tain role and I enjoy mine," said 

I 
Dolan. "My scoring has picked up (from 4.3 points per game in 1984­\ I 85 to his current 5.5 ppg.), and my 
I 
rebounding has improved. Once you get a couple of easy shots off 
rebounds you begin to build con­
fidence and take better shots. That should help the team because I can help pick them up or maybe take some the attention off the other guys." 
Drawing attention has been dif­ficult for Jim Dolan ever since he left his native New Jersey. There, he would trade elbows and sharpen his passing skills right on his

' l 
favorite court along the shore line I i of the Atlantic. Now opponents are finding out that being on the same court as
' l 
Dolan is no day at the beach. And , 
coaches, commentators, and op­
posing players are all paying atten­

~ 
tion.I 
Boggs 
continuedfrom page 12 

I 
I winter, Boggs lost his bid for $1.85 million, settling for the club's offer of $1.35 million. 
Joe Marelle of Boston radio sta­tion WRUR joked Monday about starting a bottle and can collection 
to help Boggs after he had to settle for the lower amount, and within five hours the studio was flooded with bottles and cans. 

Nevertheless, the decision was an example of the seemingly more conservative attitude of arbiters \ this year. Other talented players '} I who lost out included Alvin Davis of Seattle, Ron Darling of the N.Y.
) 
Mets, Ron Kittle of the Chicago

.l 
White Sox and Gary Ward of Tex­\ as. 
i 
For example, Davis, the 1984 American League Rookie of the Year, hit .287 in 1985, with 18 home runs and 78 RBis. He was asking for $550,000, but had to set­tle for the Mariners' offer of $400,000. 
Some big names won their ca~es, of course, with Orel Hershiser of Los Angeles winning a $1 million salary, Charlie Leibrandt of Kan­sas City winning $170,000, and World Series MVP Bret Saberhagen of the Royals receiving $925,000. And if the arbiters were truly bent on keeping salaries, they probably wouldn't have awarded Dave Van Gorder of Cincinnati (who's he?) a $150,000 salary, $80,000 above what the Reds were offering. 
However, the events of the off­season seem to signal a brighter future for baseball. The growth of player salaries could not con­tinue at its astronomical rate for long before financial trouble would creep in. 

Ifyou haven't met us yet... Now's the timet 
we're friendly, convenient, good 
yet affordable. 
$6 haircuts 
The Varsity Shop Edison Rd. at St Rd 23 
2n-oos1 

Open 6days Evenings until 7:30 

Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 10 


I~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!W 


With the American Express® Card you can buy everything from new spectacles to some pretty spectac­ular clothing The latest in audio equipment and the latest albums. The Card is the perfect way to pay for just about anything you 'II want during college. 

How to get the Card before you graduate. Because we believe that college is the first sign of success. we've made it easier for you to get the American Express Card. Graduating students can get the Card as soon as they accept a SIO,OOO career-oriented job. If you're not graduating this semester. you can apply for a special sponsored Card. Look for student applications on campus. Or call 1-800-THE-CARD. and tell them you want a student application. 
The American Express Card_ Don't leave school without it~M 
...
.: 
.:. 
c
..
... 
e 
...,Q 
~
.. 
.!=:
.. 
i 
'0 
-.;
.. ~ 
-.; 
,;:.. 
!:: ~ 
... ~ 
c
.. 
2:
.. 
E

.., 
j 2: 
(11) Q 

~4CJtt:llttJL~--------------------------------------------~---T-hu•r•s•d-ay•'•F•e•br•u•~•y•2•7•'•1•9•86•-•p•a•g•e•l•l ·-. 
Bloom County Gary Larson 
'!AY, PORTNOY.•• ~5 11-f€. MORAWY Of HUNTir-¥1 Wlt..CJ HUNTERS ~Vf.R 1?15TURB YOU 7 \  I~ SURPRIS6L? AT YOU! YOU KNOW CiARNt.£7 10011N I 'mAT WfTHM VS, TH€5€ WILV HVNreR5 WOOLP OVf,RPbPUtAT£ maR CCOSYSTtM fN NO 11M£ ... ANV 1H€N STARVA110N ... ANP Pf5AST€.P .' /  Y6AH... I {,./KE 1'1HINK T WORK FOR 'TH€ (,(}liE Of ALt.. WILJ' 1HIN6S He.r<t. ON GOC''S GRaN eARTH. \ ' ~\ '\)--­ M 1HAT CJON'T MEAN I STIU. C'ON'T RELISH &OWIN' 1He-lf< 1BRAINS (}(JT . OH Mf.\ Nf,fTH£R.1 I  

Kevin Walsh 
LISTEN ZETO, I WoRK. THE P~FS ---1 WILL F£E2. 5D 
SDRR.'I RJI< ME THEY'u.. RAISE MY GRADES. 
The Daily Cross"'ord 
ACROSS 1 Byroad 5 Writer Anita 9 Plus Item 
14 Brazilian state 15 Spouseof 
a countess 16 Use a razor 17 Edge 18 Fr. city 19 Wlsemen 20 Quickly 22 Religious 
pictures: var. 23 Danish seaport 24 Fog 26 Manual 29 Pertain 33 Ignominy 37 Lalique 39 Opera house 
section 40 Golden Horde 
member 41 Have being 42 Signs of 
sorrow 
All Rights Reserved

43 In a k'enzy 44 Auld lang ­
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:

45 White heron 8 Indolence 46 Be contrite 9 Judicial 48 Verge inquiry so Pile 10 Hurry 52 Fanciful 11 Palm starch 57 Ermine 12 Tied 60 Quickly 13 Hardy girl 63 Least skilled 21 Rayed flower 64 Toobad! 25 Vigoda 65 Provoke 27 Roentgenogram 66 Marble 28 Alloy 67 Camping gear 30 Stadium sound 68 Gardner 31 Grimm 69 Packaged character 
cotton 32 Product of 70 Choppers nidification 71 Mild expletive 33 Badge 
34 Harness part DOWN 35 Spin like ­

1 Casals  36 Hurry  2/27/86  
2 Caustic  38 Desideratum  
3 Moppet's  42 Youthful  53 Staircase part  57 Mop  
wheels  years  54 Minor movie  58 Professional  
4 Virile males  44 Depot: abbr.  part  gown  
5 Renter  47 Cleared  55 Inclined  59 Test ofa kind  
6 Pledge  49 Company  56 Stringed  61 Holmoak  
7 Column support 51  Rio de Ia ­ Instruments  62 "Citizen-"  

The Student Activities Board presents 

Mel Gibson and Tina Turner 
In Mad Max Beyond 
Thunderdome 
Friday, February 28 I March 1 Hall of Engineering 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 $1.50 

WHEN I TlJl..D PR.OFESSW 1811> 'r'OU WERE SICK• ALL 
HE' SAID WAS, ..GR~T, IF TI-lE LITTlE l>We-EB 
KICKS OFF r'LL HA:VE' ONe tESS Ff'1PE=R W 8/Wf! 
Campus . 
3:30P.M. -Computer Minicourse, Lotus, Part2: Room 104 Computing Center 4 P.M. -Seminar, "Photoreduction of Aromatic Ketones by Amines," Dr. Kankan Bhattacharyya, Notre Dame, Con­ference Theatre Radiation Laboratory, sponsored by the Radiation Laboratory 
4:15 P.M. -Colloquium, "Morphological Metaphors for the Short Story: Matters of Production, Reproduction and Consump­tion," Prof. William O'Rourke, Notre Dame, Wilson Commons, Sponsored by the English Dept. 4:30P.M. -Colloquium, "Harmonic Func­tions on Complete Manifolds," Prof. Luen-Fai Tam, Purdue University, Room 226 Computing Center and Math Building, Sponsored by the Math Dept. 
6 P.M. -Cross Country Skiing, with DJ, bonfire and refreshments at clubhouse, Winter Festival, N9tre Dame golf course, Sponsored by the SAB 
Cattle hustler. 
7 P.M. -Meeting, Overseas Development Network, Center for Social Concerns Cof­fee Room 7:30P.M. -Lecture, "The Peacemaker: A Contemplative in Action," Dr. Keith Egan, Saint Mary's, Carroll Hall, Sponsored by the SMC Justice Education Dept. 
8 P.M. -Lecture, Symbolism: Interpreting 
Artists• Images; Ego and Dream: The Per­sonalization of Symbol in 19th and 20th Century Art," Prof. Marjorie Kinsey, Notre Dame, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Friends of the Snite Museum Lecture Series on "What is Art?" 8 P.M. -Movie, "Country Lovers," Center for Social Concerns, Sponsored by the African and Black Studies Program 
8:10 P.M. -Play, "The Tempest," Washington Hall, Sponsored by the Notre Dame Dept. of Communications and Theatre 
_ 

Break out of your shell 
f>e daring and enjoy as little or as much as you like from e~ ~~~.·, the Wharfs sldr-studded menu. It's a new way to dine that 1l•Ji'.w'~Jip,n. 
-

le15 you select a little or a lot of all yonr favorites. D~~ ~--...e.vemf 
Colfax at the Rh·er 
~escnations 
Accepted 2)4-4477 

The Student Activities Board presents  
...,.,  
,.,­ Mel Gibson R\01l .In -wAtt ~ QO~­ 
._.,;;,.-­ 
~  Hall of Engineering  

.I 

Thursday, February 27 7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 $1.00 
• 
/ 
... 
-· 
Thursday, February 27, 1986-page 12
SRorts 

Bunek leads balanced Irish attack as four players record double digits 
By.TERRY LYNCH game on Friday against Evansville. tonight," said the 6-4 freshman Sports Writer In spite of Keys' absence, the center. "I'm coming off of a stress Irish had control of the game from fracture, and I've been trying to Heidi Bunek scored 18 points the opening tip, and towards the regain my confidence." Before she and grabbed eight rebounds as the end of the first half, the Irish fast was beset with the injury and women's basketball team won its break had the Lay Bulldogs' heads hampered by the flu, Bunek had sixth straight game by a score of77-spinning. Sophomore guard Mary scored a career-high 21 points in 
48. Four Irish players scored in Gavin pushed the ball relentlessly the Western Michigan game. double figures in a genuine team ef­up the court, and the quick point The absence of Keys, who scored fort last night at the ACC. guard ended up with eight assists in 27 points at Butler in the last game, 
Senior All-America Trena Keys the game. did not seem to particularly bother 
sat out the entire game, and did not The Notre Dame defense stiffen­the Irish, who were able to run both suit up for the tontest. Keys, who ed at the end of the first half, as the the fast break and the set offense leads the Irish averaging 20 points a freshman Bunek blocked three without problems. Still, the Irish game and the latest receipient of shots and helped keep Butler to on­would not mind having that right 
the North Star Conference player ly four points in the last 5:41 of the arm healthy on Friday. of the week award, sported a blue half. sling on her right arm and sat next In the second half, the Irish took "We definitely need Trena," said to Coach Mary DiStanislao during control of the game on the strength Bunek. "But by not having Trena, the game. of Bunek, who scored 16 of her 18 it shows that if she gets into a bad 
''She hurt (her arm) in the points in the second half, while also foul situation, we can still play DePaul game," said DiStanislao. hitting 6-of-7 from the line. well." "It's the old rotator cuff injury. The Irish stretched the lead to 31 Senior Lynn Ebben was the se­She's just going to have to learn points on three occasions, and cond leading scorer for the Irish how to throw a spin ball," joked the DiStanislao freely substituted in the with 11 points, and Lavetta Willis Irish coach. second half. and Sandy Botham each had 10 
"We didn't think it was as serious The Irish bench chipped in 34 points apiece. Willis had a par­as it turned out to be. We're points collectively, and for Bunek, ticularly strong game, and led the evaluating it on a day-to-day last night's performance came at an team with nine rebounds and shot basis." Keys is expected to return to opportune time in her season. 5-of-6 from the field. Botham haul­the Irish lineup in her last home "I was really confident out there ed down eight rebounds. 


I 
f.. 
r 
r . 
~. ~\ 
r / 
r 
f 
r 
r 
~ \ 
~ ~ 
, ~ 
, 
r 
r 
r 
q r 
r. '; 
r \ 
I 
I 
' l 
r • ; . 
' ~ 
! 
r-­
r. 
,1~ 
., 
;'~ 


..../ The Oblena'!Paul Paboreiky 
Notre Dame senior forward Jim Dolan, bringing the ball up the court here, has become the consummate defensiveclutchplayer for the physical Irish team this season. Marty Burns features Dolan at the right. 
Clutch Player 
Dolan is physical, defensive leader 
By MARTY BURNS quette basketball team, whicn was intelligent, and reliable player on Assistant Sports Editor stung by Dolan's 22 points and last­the team," said Phelps. "His ability second tip-in Feb. 1. to come in and think on the floor 
The backbone of the Irish "I take it all as a compliment,'' rubs off on the other players. And defense. A lunch pail player. The said Dolan. "My role is playing I think he has played to his roles smartest player from the free-throw solid defense, fighting for re­very well over his years here at line in to the hoop. A coach on the bounds, passing it inside, and do­Notre Dame." court. An upcoming bruise in ing whatever it takes to win games. Many recent observers to the basketball shoes. We play the physical game against Irish ba·sketball scene would 
Notre Dame forward Jim Dolan everybody, and I really enjoy it. It's assume that role always has been has been called a lot of things over just that the guys on the other team that of the hustling bench player, his four years of college play. don't like it. But it's part of the similar to the one he has played While most of the these raves have game." throughout this season. In reality, come from coaches or commen­Dolan's persuasive play however, Dolan's name was once tators, not all of the things the 6-8, underneath has been a part of the engraved in Phelps' starting l~neup. 230-pound senior has been called game for Irish head coach Digger In fact, Dolan's name now rests could even be termed raves. Some Phelps ever since he first landed the atop the Notre Dame record book could not even be termed printable. prep phenom from St. Joseph's under minutes played in one 
Just ask some of the opposing High School in New Jersey. Since season, as he checked in for a total players who have been cajoled out that time Dolan has played more of 1,133 minutes as a sophomore. of a key rebound, suffered a bone­varying roles than a matinee idol, Along with obtaining that record in crunching pick, or had a ball strip­stepping in as a freshman to boost a 1983-84, Dolan tied a mark for ped from their surprised hands over struggling Irish team, then bringing most minutes played in one game the past four years. Just ask North the ball up court as a small forward (50 vs. Washington), and led the Carolina's Brad Daugherty, who for much of his sophomore cam­team in assits and rebounding . failed to get off a field goal attempt paign, and, finally serving as a tri­Last year saw a move to the over Dolan in the entire second half captain last year. bench for Dolan when forward of Notre Dame's NCAA tourna­"Over the last four years, Jim m~nt loss last year. Or ask the Mar-Dolan has been the most consistent, see FORWARD, page 10 
Spiraling baseball salaries are coming to an end 
"It now takes a 36-month payment booklet to get a hot dog and beer at Fenway Park." 
-Boston radio announcer Andy Moes on how baseball's rising salaries have trickled down to the average fan. 
The time of year has come to turn one's attention to the baseball diamonds of America -spring training is here. But considering the complaints of many people, including Moes, that major league baseball salaries never seem to stop their upward spiral, it is interesting to take a look back at this past winter's contract disputes and settelments. 
It was, all in all, a year in ~hich the owners were declared ''winners" in the annual salary sweepstakes. "Winner" does not seem like the right term to use, since most owners had to increase player salaries yet again, some by quite a substantial margin. But there were a few developments that seem to signal that the days of the runaway baseball salary may be behind us. 
One could sense a change beginning last December, when Detroit Tiger outfielder Kirk Gibson charged publicly that he felt baseball club owners were con­spiring against him in his free agency bid for a new contract. Gibson, considered a top talent in the baseball world, seemingly had no offers for his ser-
Eric Scheuermann 
Assistant Sports Editor 


vices coming in from other teams. 
This was certainly surprising, considering that in past yeas baseball owners had spent ludicrous sums of money on such talent as Darrel Evans (Tigers), Goose Gossage (San Diego Padres) and Bruce Sutter (Atlanta Braves). Admittedly, these players had proven their worth in the baseball world, but for some reason the money was not thrown at Gibson after a few outstanding years of his own. 
No strong evidence has come out showing that the owners collectively decided to keep their hands off Gibson. Whether it was an intentional tactic or not, it worked. Gibson was forced to resign with the Tigers on the deadline day, still claiming that he had been unable to test his worth in an unencumbered free agency market. 
Despite an overall free agency market which the players claimed was not as satisfactory as in previous years, there was still the arbitration period to look for­ward. But this year's recently concluded arbitration period brought results that further disappointed the players. 
Before the dealine on Jan. 15, 159 players filed for arbitration, a ptocess where an impartial third party decides after a hearing what a player should be paid. 124 players reached agreement with their teams without going through with the arbitration. Of the re­maining 35, only 15 won their cases and received the salaries they were asking. Twenty players lost their cases to their teams, and were forced to take the salary the team offered. 
In. past years, the arbitration process has seemed like a gift to the players, with most taking home huge pay increases. For instance, Boston Red Sox third baseman Wade Boggs won his case last year, and received $1 million tp play in 1985. And he played very well, hitting .368 on the year. But when it came time for arbitration this year, the tables were turned on him. In one of the most publicized cases of this 
see BOGGS, page 10 





