Hard Rock Cafe-page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 40 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Reagan approves proposals for nuclear arms reductions 
Associated Press next week in Geneva on im­cent reduction in U.S. and So­proving the verification of un­viet long-range bombers, 
WASHINGTON-President derground nuclear tests. intercontinental ballistic mis­Reagan has approved a pack­Reagan told Gorbachev that siles and submarines within age of proposals for sharp better monitoring procedures five years. reductions in U.S. and Soviet could lead to a treaty outlawing A ceiling of 1,600 would be im­strategic nuclear weapons and all blasts. posed on all U.S. and Soviet the withdrawal of strategic nuclear delivery intermediate-range nuclear A more modest U.S. arms vehicles. Intercontinental bal­missiles from Europe, admin­control package was sent to listic missiles and submarine­istration officials said chief U.S. negotiator Max launched missiles would be Tuesday. Kampelman last week. Several held to a total of 600. Strategic 
key items were held back, in­bombers would be limited to 
The package puts on the cluding the proposed ban on 350 on each side. negotiating table in Geneva the U.S. and Soviet intermediate­key proposals Reagan made to r~nge nuclear missiles in The Soviets also have pro­Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbac­Europe. posed a 50 percent cutback, but hev at their summit in Iceland The U.S. military chiefs their formula and the kind of earlier this month. It includes wanted to consider first the im­nuclear weapons to be covered a ban on all U.S. and Soviet bal­pact that a missile ban would by the reductions differ from listic missiles by 1996, said the have on defending Western the U.S. approach. officials, who were willing to Europe from Soviet attack. Reagan's call for a ban on discuss the subject only on the NATO ground forces are out­ballistic missiles by 1996 condition they not be named manned by Warsaw Pact carries out the position U.S. of­publicly. troops. ficials said he took in talking 
So far, Soviet negotiators with Gorbachev. The Soviets have resisted taking up The discussion was held at contend, however, that Reagan seriously the proposals Reagan the White House Monday with went further and supported a discussed with the Soviet Com­Reagan presiding. The chair­ban on all strategic nuclear munist Party General Secre­man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, forces. tary on Oct. 11-12, said Kenneth Adm. William J. Crowe, partic­Adelman, director of the U.S. ipated and endorsed the pack­A U.S. official, who said Arms Control and Disarma­age, the sources said. records of the conversations ment Agency. The new instructions were between Reagan and Gorbac­
transmitted to Kampelman hev were still incomplete, ac­
"It seems they have been un­Monday night. knowledged that Reagan "may der instructions to be unhelpful Spokesman Larry Speakes, have said that at one point."since the Reykjavik meeting," accompanying Reagan on a po­But he and another U.S. offi­Adelman said in an interview. litical campaign trip to the cial stressed that the president "We want to build on Reyk­South Tuesday, confirmed the informed Gorbachev on javik. They want to dispute." meeting. several occasions during their 
Adelman said separate talks Reagan's proposal on strate­talks that he sought a ban only would be held with the Soviets gic weapons calls for a 50 per-on ballistic missiles. 

Test tremors to be monitored by Soviets 
Associated Press it possible for Americans to 
verify that the Soviet Union is 
NEW YORK -Soviet seis­observing any such agree­mologists will visit the United ments, Cochran said. States in November to select The three American monitor­locations in California and ing stations now operating near Nevada for equipment to mon­the Soviet Union's principal nu-. itor the Earth tremors from clear test site near the city of 
U.S. nuclear weapons tests, a Semipalatinsk, about 1,800 scientist said Tuesday. miles southeast of Moscow, are 
The visit is the latest step in adequate to detect any viola­an agreement negotiated tions of the current Soviet privately between U.S. and So­moratorium on nuclear weap­viet scientists that has allowed ons tests, Cochran said. Americans for the first time to "Our stations in effect cover begin such monitoring inside their test site," he said. "We the Soviet Union, said Thomas can monitor explosions down to Cochran, senior staff scientist a few tons." of the Natural Resources Defense Council. The stations also serve as 
However, the government prototypes for the estimated 25 won't permit the Soviet scien­stations that would be needed tists to visit the actual sites for inside the Soviet Union to mon­the equipment because they itor compliance with a compre­don't represent the Soviet gov­hensive test-ban treaty, if one ernment, he said. were negotiated, he said. 
And they give American 
Cochran, who initiated the scientists and government offi­discussions with the Soviet cials the ability for the first Academy of Sciences that led time to "map" the geology of to the agreement, said at a the Soviet test site, thus allow­news conference that both par­ing more accurate determina­ties have also agreed to es­tion of the magnitude of any So­tablish a computer link be­viet nuclear tests, Cochran tween the American and Soviet said. monitoring stations. The Soviet seismologists, led 
The agreement is intended to by Igor Nersesov of the In-promote the signing of arms­control agreements by makiog lee SOVIETS, page 4 

United Way campaign set to begin 
By ANN KALTENBACH Joanie Cahill, HPC co­Saint Mary's will use their Assistant News Editor chairman, spoke with op­regular one-hour aerobics timism for the United Way workouts and modify them 
Promoting enthusiasm for campaign. "I think it looks "so people can go for 50 min­the University's United Way pretty good. The door to door utes." campaign kickoff next week, is what they really want to In other business Vince Wil­Pat Mangan, assistant direc­stress. The door to door has lis, general manager of tor of the St. Joseph county to be the heart of it" and . , . Theodore's, a non-alcoholic 
· campaign urged students to "is what will make it or break campus bar located in LaFor­"make compassionate deci­it," said Cahill. tune, announced its opening sions to give" at Tuesday Seidensticker highlighted Friday. Willis said DJs from night's Hall Presidents' Coun­fund-raising events to be held WZZP will be on hand Friday cil meeting. in the upcoming weeks. He night from 8 pm to 3 am. 
Mangan told the Council said "Casablanca" will be that "as students you may not shown in the Engineering "I am very confident ·if realize the importance of your Auditorium November 5 and (students) see it once, it will role in the campaign . . . but 6. speak for itself, said Willis. it becomes very important. Senior Bar Night, scheduled "The sound system is Because you care enough, for Nov. 14, along with a awesome," he said. "We want even though you are passing Charity Bowl (interhall foot­people to come out," said Wil­through . . . we appreciate ball championship) on Nov. lis. that. 16, sponsored by Zahm Hall, Willis said several non­
"Each and every dollar are also events scheduled to alcoholic drinks such as dai­counts," said Mangan. donate proceeds to the cam­quiries and margaritas will 
"We'd really like to raise paign, said Seidensticker. be served. He said free pop­$10,000, which is basically $2 He added that a Lock-Up is corn will always be available. per person." said John scheduled for Nov. 18 and 19 A trip for two to the USC Seidensticker, Notre Dame while details of a 5-K Turkey game is among prizes which campus drive chairman. Trot are to be announced at a will be distributed at 
Vicki Smithberger, mother later date. Theodore's Friday night ac­of St. Joseph County United Cahill said the HPC will cording to Willis, but he said Way poster child Lyndsi sponsor an Aerob-a-thon (an students must be present to Smithberger said, "I am aerobics marathon) on Nov. win. really touched that college 22 in the ACC from lOam to Willis said no admission fee students today are involved in 4pm. She said, "It could be a will be charged and that ques­United Way. On behalf of all lot of fun but we need a lot of tions about Theodore's can be families like us in St. Joe participants to make it answered by calling 283­County~ I'd like to thank you. work." CLUB. You are a real blessing," she Cahill said aerobics instruc­said. tors from Notre Dame and see HPC, page 3 
The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1986, -page 2 

In Brief 

A full color, half-hour long video yearbook set to music, depicting Syracuse University campus life is being produced by the school. A yearbook publishing firm helps Syracuse students shoot scenes and select them for the tape. About 10 people are needed to produce the yearbook, which students can buy at the end of the year. The tape can also be personalized for students who send slides or photos of themselves and friends. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Security is continuing its investigation of a break-in into the South Dining Hall at 11:28 on We~nesda>' Oct. 22., according to Assistant Director of Secunty Phil Johnson. Witnesses said there were at least three suspec~s who broke in through through the windows. Johnson said approximately $40 worth of goods were stolen from the Deli and he said the susects are probably Notre Dame stud~nts. -The Observer 
Playboy magazine, this month, features 7-Eleven em­ployee Sharon Gordon, who shed her uniform, and nearly everything else, to pose for the issue that hit newsstands Tuesday. "I did it for my ego," said the 29 year-old mother of two. Gordon checked with her superiors before agreeing to pose along with a dozen other women in the December issue's "Women of 7-Eleven" feature. -Associated Press 
A 16-foot statue of Olive Oyl on the roof of Popeye's Hair Care salon in Sebastopol, Cal. "brings a smile" to passersby, but city officials frown on it. T~e officials ~ay the paper-mache work violates a 1984 ordmance agamst the use of mannequins as business signs, and that the law has to be enforced to keep downtown neat. Amorelli has refused to comply with a citation ordering her to take down the statue. She argued that the statue does not serye as a sign for her business but "as an example of patno­tism." -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
Saint Mary's Carnival of Careers was planned last night by representatives from Saint Mary's student government and Jeff Roberts, assistant director of placement services counseling and career development. The Carnival will take place on Tuesday Nov. 11 from 3 to 6 at Angela Athletic Facility. The event is designed to help students generate ideas about their future and obtain information on different employment positions and graduate schools, according to Roberts. Roberts said so far 31 different organizations are planning to attend the carnival. -The Observer 
"Enemies of the People: Industry's Attack on the Common Law Rights in America" will be di~cuss~d by Paul ~ro~eur today at 3:45 p.m. in the Memonal L1bra~y Aud1tor~um. Brodeur a writer for The New Yorker magazme, has wntten extensiv~ly about environmental and occupational health prob­lems. The lecture is sponsored by the Law School's Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government. -The Observer 
An Alumni organ recital by Becky Bruick will be presented tonight at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. Brui~k wil perform work~ by Jeanne Demessieux, Johann Sebastian Bach, and Louis Vierne. The concert, sponsored by Notre Dame's Department of Music, is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
"Ireland and the American Irish: Two Views of Irish Nationalism" will be discussed by Boston University Professor William Shannon a former U.S. ambassador to Ireland, to­morrow in the M~morial Library Lounge. This annual Hiber­nian Lecture is sponsored by the Charles and Margaret Hall Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. This year is the 150th anniversary of the founding of the Ancient 
Order of Hibernians. -The Observer . 

Weather 

Who loves ya baby? Stick a lollypop in your mouth and pretend you're Telly Savalas when you walk outside into a 20 percent chance of showers early today with highs in the upper 50s. Clear with a chance of frost tonight with lows in the mid 30s. Mostly sunny Thursday with highs in the upper 50s. -Associated Press 


Design Editor . ...... Melissa Warnke Viewpoint Layout ... Melinda Murphy Design Assistant . ..... Chris Donnelly Accent Copy Editor . .. Mike Naughton Typesettters ............. Mike Buc Typists ............... Esther Ivory News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovac Copy Editor . ........... Pat Censky SMC Day Editor . ....... Karen Webb Sports Copy Editor ...... Ray Knight ................... Monique Kelly Viewpoint Copy Editor . ... Bob White AdDesign . ...... Catherine Ramsden 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
0 I o 

Biased campaigning hurts voters 
How high would you rate on the Biblical scoreboard? 
I received a large, white election pamphlet in the mail while home on break. It claimed to give impartial information on election candi­dates. 
But this "unbiased" brochure included per­centages from the Biblical Scoreboard. No in­formation was given about the exact nature of the scoreboard; references to it just dropped into the pamphlet out of the sky. 
Only extreme scores were used, of course, and as one would guess, conservatives scored above 80 percent while most of the "lefties" had batting averages in the .200 range. 
In general, campaigns across the country this year have sunken to new lows as political ad­vertisements have ruthlessly attacked candi­dates. 
Columnist Tom Wicker wrote in an Oct. 28 commentary that"... this is the year of nega­tive campaigning -the art of describing the opponent as a liar, a louse, an enemy of the people, who's soft on crime, drugs, family values, national defense and communism." 
The expanded role of political action commit­tees, (PAC's), seems to be one reason for the increased negative campaigning. Candidates are able to smile and kiss babies while PAC's do their dirty work for them. 
In the past, PAC's were most noticeable for their work on broad issues such as the environ­ment. But now PAC's are springing up just to harass a candidate on a particular issue which may not even exist. 
Ohio newspapers have been running an ad titled "Why Homosexuals are Supporting (Ohio Governor Richard) Celeste." 
Such ads are being submitted by the Ohio Citizens for Decency and Health. The group was previously unknown to most Ohioans. 
It is hard to determine just who is running such a group because all statements are made in the name of the group, not in the name of a particular person. 
Celeste's opponent, former Governor James Rhodes, claims no knowledge of the ad. However, one Ohio church pastor said he received literature from Rhodes' campaign and from OCDH both of which bore address labels identical down to the misspelling of his address. 
Besides the vagueness of the group's spon­sorship, the issue is rather vague itself. It seems that no one even knew there was such an issue until the OCDH brought it up, but, nonetheless, Rhodes has gotten plenty of free mileage out of the "homo issue," as he has been heard to call it. 
Such publicity provided by groups outside of a candidate's official campaign allows the can­didate to deny involvement in the mudslinging but wink silently to those who support the po­sition supported by the PAC. 
While at home, I also received a flyer that displayed a 6x9 inch picture of a candidate with 
LOOKING FOR A 
LimE DIVERSION UNDER THE DOME? 
~ 

~ !\) ~~
I ~\;;) 1 ~ 
·~ ~ 
'<:::Jr;j

·~~ ~~ 
~ ~ 
~ 

~ ~ ,~ t c:,
~~ 

~ ~~ 
~ c:,\J
~ ~ ~~ f ~ ~....~ 
~ 
And Much More I SOMETHING FOR EVERYONE GRAND OPENING FRIDAY OCT 31st 

• 

. . 
I I I I It I I I I I I I I It I I I I I 0 0' •' t I I • • • • 
Jim Riley 
Copy Editor 

his back to the camera. The mayor "has turned his back on you," said the caption in two-inch red letters. The return address on the flyer was of the National Republican Congressional Com­mittee, so the mayor's opponent could claim not to have any responsibility for the ad. 
I much prefer strictly partisan literature be­cause I at least know from where the authors are coming. With a flyer that says "Vote for these democrats" the intentions of the authors are obvious. Qitto with a letterhead that fea­tures a red, white, and blue elephant and with a letter signed by Ronald Reagan addressed "Dear Summit County voter" (at least they spelled my name right). 
The large, white pamphlet that quoted per­centages from the Biblical Scoreboard in­trigued me most. 
Who runs the scoreboard? Moses? The Great Scorekeeper in the Sky himself? Can candidates play it safe and get three points for a moment of silence vote, or go for a touchdown with a vote for mandated school prayer? 
The serious concern I have about the large white pamphlet is that it pretends to be un­biased when in fact it is not. Not only can't I hold a particular person responsible for the pamphlet, I also can't be sure at first whose "side" it is on. 
If I am told that the mayor is turning his back on me and the governor caters to homosexuals, at least the flyer is not pretending to be un­biased. 
It was kind of reasurring to get a flyer, sent all the way here from Ohio, that showed a smiling candidate sitting with his family and saying nothing bad about his opponent. He even signed the letter by hand and crossed out "Dear Voter" at the top and replaced it with "Pear JS" -he almost got my initials right. 



ARE YOU 

"· '0. • 
The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1986, -page 3 
Christmas Bazaar proceeds to benefit spina bifida 
By KAREN WEBB News Staff 
The Saint Mary's Pro­gramming Board decided to donate the profits from stu­dent government's partici­pation in December's Saint Mary's Christmas Bazaar to the Spina Bifida Association at Tuesday night's program­ming board meeting. 
The Spina Bifida Associa­tion had originally hoped to raise money at Saint Mary's by sponsoring a bowl-a-thon, according to Lisa Lawler, Traditional Events Commis­sioner. 
Lawler said, however, ''There has been little or no interest in this weekend's bowl-a-thon." 
Because of the anticipated low level of participation, Lawler said student govern­ment will make the donation to the Spina Bifida Associa­tion. 
In other business, Sara Cook, vice president for stu­dent affairs, reminded the board that a "One Woman Comedy and Horror Show" entitled "Everything You Ever Wanted to Ask About Nukes but Were Afraid to Know" will be held tonight at 8 in the Chameleon Room at Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's. 
Also, Cook announced that Brian Huskey will give a performance of music and comedy November 10 in the Chameleon room. Cook en­couraged all students to at­tend the show. 
Georgeana Rosenbush, faculty advisor to the Board, said "(Brian) is funny, he sings anything you want to hear and he loves Saint Mary's." 


With an illuminated San Francisco city hall as a nightlight, Randy Welch settles down for an­other evening at the AIDS vigil in front of the old Federal Building at San F-rancisco's Civic Center. Welch and other demonstrators are pro­testing over what they call lack of federal in­action over the disease. 

Institute says cancer deaths may be halved by year 2000 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Na­tional Cancer Institute said Tuesday that the aggressive use of existing knowledge could cut the annual cancer death rate in half by the year 2000. 
The institute released a plan, combining cancer prevention, screening, early detection and treatment, that it said could produce dramatic results by the turn of the century if it were adopted as a national goal. 
"Knowledge gained over the years can be used to control a significant portion of the dis­ease which was responsible for an estimated 462,000 deaths in 1985," said Dr. Vincent DeVita, director of the institute. 
Detailed in a new report en­titled "Cancer Control Objec­tives for theN ation: 1985-2000," the plan calls for stepped-up ef­forts against cigarette smoking and poor diet and earlier use of the latest diagnostic and treatment techniques. 
"The report on cancer con­trol objectives is important be­cause it represents a compre­hensive plan of action," DeVita said. 
The strategy, developed to meet national disease preven­tion objectives established by the Department of Health and Human Services, would re­quire cooperation from the public, industry, health profes­sions, news media and govern­ment to succeed, he continued. 
Among other things, it calls for industry to increase health promotion in the workplace, the news media to better spread information about can­cer prevention and control, vo­luntary organizations to offer more health education and screening programs at the local level and health profes­sional groups to reemphasize cancer control in training pro­grams. 

The national mortality rate from cancer in 1980, based on the latest available data, was 183 deaths per 100,000 persons annually. This figure could be cut by as much as 50 percent in 15 years by using the preven­tion and treatment knowledge already available, NCI offi­cials said. 




Rice University MBA 
High Quality for High Achievers 
Learn how you can prepare for a career in management Discover how the innovative curriculum of Rice University's Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration integrates the study of the private, public, and international sectors throughout the curricula to provide a superior management education. 
Visit our representative on your campus: 
On: Tnursday, October 30, 12:00-4:00 P.M. 
At: MBA Mini-Forum Or -Mail the coupon below to receive an application and 


__________. ____________
brochure. 
Please Print 

Name~--------------------------------------­~------------------------------­
City ____________ sta,te----ZiP----­
eo~~--------------~D~at~e---------­
Return to: Rice University Jones Graduate School of Administration P .0. Box 1892, Houston, 1X 77251 (713) 527-4918 Rice Univellily ia an EO/AA Institution 
Dr. Edward Sondik, an NCI official who helped analyze and edit the report, said in an in­terview that there is no esti­mate of how much the ex­panded anticancer effort would cost. 
"We have not done a detailed budget on what this would cost, but once one understands what can be done, then they can de­termine how to do it," Sondik said. 
"The thing that we are ad­dressing with this report is that you can do something about cancer now without waiting for some research breakthroughs," he continued. 
HPC 
continuedfrom page I 
Following Willis' discussion, Cahill announced the res­cheduling of HPC committee meetings with John Goldrick, associate vice president for residence life, for Nov. 3. Howard Hall President Jim Bradford suggested discussing with Goldrick the new enforce­ment of "no paper" SYR decorations in hallways. 
Cahill said such meetings with Goldrick were scheduled "Research is important and we stress that. The projections we have on reducing cancer death rely to a great extent on the products of past and future re­search. 
"But we think there has been a sense that cancer is a prob­lem we can't get a hold of, that we as individuals can't do much about it," he said, "and that just isn't true." 
Sondik noted that 30 percent of cancer deaths are due di­rectly to smoking, but that the public doesn't fully understand how much can be gained just by stopping this practice. 
earlier in the year to clarify "a lot of rumors going around campus." According to Cahill, through these meetings, policies have been made clear and the HPC committees wishes to continue these ses­sions with Goldrick. 
In other business, Mahir Mouasher from OMBUD an­nounced that campus phone books are in and can be picked up by hall presidents on Thursday from 6 to 7 p.m. in La Fortune. He said off­campus students will receive their phone books after dorm representatives have picked up their halls' books. 




Gay activists use currency as a demonstration of power 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -If money is power, gay activists reason, then money that passes through the homosexual com­munity and is marked accord­ingly may translate into gay power. 
For the last few months, city homosexuals have been circu­lating greenbacks stamped in 
red  with  "gay  $"  as  a  
demonstration  of  their  
strength.  

Activists estimate millions of dollars have been stamped so far, and say the movement is spreading to other large cities. Federal officials say the bills are likely being re-circulated to other Midwestern states as well. 
The campaign was sparked by the July failure of a proposed city ordinance to guarantee equal rights for homosexuals, said Frank Kellas, owner of a bar in the posh Gold Coast area 
who helped launch the cam­paign. "What buys rights but dol­lars?" asked Kellas. 
"All we're asking for is equal protection under the law and not to be beaten up because we're gay--or fired," said the Rev. Ninure Saunders, co­chairman of the Illinois Gay and Lesbian Task Force. 
"To judge by what I've seen, it's given a little more kick in the pride of gay and lesbian people," Ms. Saunders said. 
The protest has broadened its aims since the ordinance's defeat. 
For one thing, Kellas said the marked bills are helping dispel ''the myth of catching AIDS through (casual) contact." 
By showing how many dol­lars are touched by homosexuals, heterosexuals may learn that acquired im­mune deficiency syndrome cannot be spread by casual con­tact, he said. 

The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1986, -page 4 

Scavengers attack one of the shanties marked obtained title to 17 shacks along Sugar Ditch for demolition at Sugar Ditch, a Delta slum that and area residents have moved in to salvage has drawn national attention as an example of any usable lumber or tin. The city is scheduled rural poverty. The city of Tunica, Miss. has to send in its wrecking crews soon. 

Airplane damaged by deer 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Emer­gency crews at two airports were on standby, but a small plane that was damaged when it hit a deer on takeoff landed safely in Louisville, airport of­ficials said. 
The private Cessna 650 landed without difficulty at 
9:01 a.m. Tuesday, said John Scharfenberger, spokesman at Standiford Field. 
The plane, owned by Hil­lenbrand Industries, had taken off at 7 a.m. from a private airstrip near Batesville, Ind., where it struck a deer. 
The company said there were seven people aboard, including two corporate pilots, and none was injured. 
The pilot circled Greater Cin­cinnati International Airport for more than an hour for safety reasons before electing to land in Louisville because there was less fog. 
"He didn't want to land with a heavy load of fuel in case something happened," said San Juan Romero, air traffic manager at the Greater Cincin­nati airport. 
Visibility at the Greater Cin­cinnati airport was one-half mile, said Hank Merrick, assis­tant air traffic manager. The visibility in Louisville was three miles. 
"The runway visual range went down on the approach to the runway he was going to use and the weather was better down at Louisville, and he elected to go down there," Mer­rick said. 
"He wasn't too sure about his left wheel. ... He made one pass down here and it didn't appear to be in place. The left wheel was not normal." 
Both airports had emergency crews on standby. Scharfenberger said the pilot did not request foam on the run­way to reduce friction at lan­ding. 
R.C. Smith, Hillenbrand vice president, declined to release the names of the plane's oc­cupants, but a flight list identi­fied the pilot as Mike Cooken­dorfer. Smith said other flight arrangements were made to take the passengers to Florida. The Cessna had been bound for Orlando. 


Correction 
Executive Coordinator Michael Jaeger was misquoted in the Student Senate meeting story in Tuesday's Observer. In ref­erence to senators' comments last year follow­ing a student vote on divest­ment, Jaeger said "the indi­cation (in the opinion of those senators) appeared to be that the student body had become generally apathetic toward the issue of divest­ment." He added, "Many of the senators felt that the po­sition of the administration was most knowledgeable and proper," and that "they had a good grip on the situa­tion." 


Soviets 
continuedfrom page 1 

stitute of Physics of the Earth in Moscow, are scheduled to ar­rive in the United States on Nov. 9. 
Because of conditions placed on their visit by the Reagan ad­ministration, they will not be able to visit the proposed mon­itoring sites in Nevada and Cal­ifornia, each about 70 miles from the Nevada test site where U.S. nuclear weapons tests are conducted, Cochran said. 
The conditions were that the Soviets witness a nuclear test and a demonstration of a sys­tem called CORRTEX, de­signed to allow the monitoring of nuclear explosions. 
The reason, Cochran said, is that the Reagan administra­tion iavors a limited test-ban treaty overseen by CORRTEX, while the Soviets favor a com­
prehensive test-ban treaty. 
The Soviets declined to agree, and so they will not visit the proposed monitoring sites in Railroad Valley and Nelson, Nev., and Deep Springs, Calif. 
"The Soviet position with respect to this is that this is the wrong cast of characters," Cochran said. "They are seis­mologists. They are not familiar with CORRTEX." The administration "might as well have invited the Kirov Ballet to witness an explosion. 
State Department spokes­man Charles Redman said at a briefing Tuesday that the Soviets would have been per­mitted to visit the sites if they had agreed to come in an offi­cial capacity as representa­tives of the Soviet government. 


TIME FOR BIG FUN TIME FOR BIG FUN TIME FOR BIG FUN 
The Notre Dame Ctub ~f M~ryla~d ] 
proudly presents 
Notre Dame-Navy in Baltimore 
Friday, October 31 
Notre Dame Pep Rally /Party 7:30p.m. 
Omni International Hotel -Featuring coaches & former 
gridirion greats with music by the N.D. Alumni Band, a local 
Irish band, and a D.J. Cash bar and food Available. 
Cost $3.00 
Saturday, November 1, 1986 Bull Pen Bash 3-6:30p.m. Memorial Stadium Bullpen (behind Center Field) Pre-game entertainment and refreshments. Cost $2.00 
Omni International Hotel 4:00p.m. 
KICKOFF Memorial Stadium 7:00p.m. 
Marriott Hotel Lounge: 
Post Game Celebration 
Illusions Inner Harbor 
All Seniors Are Cordially Invited to Explore Career Opportunities on Wall Street 
The First Boston Corporation, an investment banking firm headquartered in New York, will be recruiting for its two year financial analyst program. Opportunities exist in New York and regional offices. First Boston's analyst program offers excellent training, flexibility, a diverse group of colleagues and a suppor­tive corporate culture. 
On Wednesday, October 29th at 7:00p.m. in the Hayes-Healey Auditorium (Room 122), recent Notre Dame graduates will provide an overview of the analyst program and relate their own experiences at First Boston. Highly motivated seniors of all majors are encouraged to attend the presentation and the reception which will follow. 
First Boston will be interviewing on campus December 3rd. Brochures describing the financial analyst program are available at The Career and Placement Office. 
For further information, please feel free to write: 
Anne S. Leggett Director of Training and Recruiting 
{IJ The First Boston Corporntian 
Park Avenue Plaza New York. New York 10055 





Alljust2Seeaeh••• allthetimeat 
ALDI. has a lot to show you for a quarter. 


Imported Danish Butter Cookies 
16o,:bo ­



~~~~99e 
was $1.29 
Frutls & Vegetables 
Fruit Cocktail, choice quality. 49e 
heavy syrup, 16 oz. ............ 
Pineapple,fancyquality.sliced. 59~ chunk, crushed. juice pack, 20 oz. ~ 
California Peaches 
S9e 
light syrup, Irregular. 29 oz. . ...• 
:.~f.~~~="~~~5oz ...........49e Cherry or Blueberry 79e 
Pie Filling, 21 oz. .. ......... Asparagus 69e 
grade A fancy, cut, 14.5 oz. • ... . 
:~!~ tra~~a~ssoz ...........29e ~eU:.h:~~r:: 4 oz ..........39e ~h~!~ ~~~~-~ .................29e ~~~:d. ~~~-~~~~~-e~ .......... 29e :~~~~~~t~ ~~t~~~~-....29e r:~~~~ -~~-~~~~~~-..........39e ~:~:'e.~-~~-~~~~~-.........49e ~:!:a:~a!~~co~ .............J9e 
French Sliced Green 29~ 
Beans, grade Afancy, t5.5 oz. .,.. 
:'!~~~e,!~~5Bo~a~~ .......J9e 
:::::,sAtancy.16oz............J9e 
~!~~c~1 ~soz ..............J9e 


Baking Supplies 


Condtments and Spreads Peanut Butter, creamy or 99e 
chunky. grade Afancy. 18 oz..... Strawberry Preserves 99e 
grade Afancy. t8 oz........... . ~:!:~~ancy. 32 oz. ..........69e :~~~~--~~-~~-~ .~.r-~~~i-~~-. 79e ~f:zg~~~i-~~~~~-...........79e 
,. ~ ,-----I 
Flour 
a~ 
5 lb. bag .lmil 



""--~·--1 
---------' 

Juices and Drinks 
~~:~~~!~.~~~:p,:~~~~~z..99e ~:;~~~~-~~:;,~~~1~~~e. 99e 
Pre-Creamed Shortening 

Household Items 
~~e:~oJ~~~~~-..............39e 
~!~,h;ko~~-~~-~~-~ ..........S9e 
..........Special Purchase General Merchandise••••llllllltt.. 
~ ~ 
Big Foot or Army Vehicles S199 Peak Antifreeze, gaL S299 with remote control ......•.. each 'J $3.50 rebate w•th purchase of 2 ..
S299 Anchor Hocking 18-pc S499 
Motobot Sets ......... each Punch Set or Beverage Set ..... . 
~~~c~t~~s~~~~~ ............... s9199 
Doffodll Bulbs per package l'roctor Silex ..:_2 Cup Coffee Maker. $7 rebate 
S 19 Cannon Blankets SJ99 Solids 72x90 ..................SJ699 Cannon Blankets ss99 
Pnnts 72x90 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...Ill 
~~=~:o~~~~!~_er.~ ..........S~9 
~~~~~~~~~~-~~ -~~-~ .......49e 
G.E. Light Bulbs SJ99 
60 or tOO watt, 4 pack ............ Bread and Pastry 

Newl Christollen with Perslpan 
~~i'::.' ~~~ ~~:':'~.~~ ...........SJ99 
~s•!!in~~ ..•••••••••••.••.•.•.J9e 

Prepared Foods 
~~~~~~te~i~~~-~5n! ........49e ~:'~c~-~~-~~~~ ............99e ~:5c,:r~~~ .~. ~~~~~ .........J9e 
Elbow Macaroni or 
69e 
Long Spaghetti, 2 lb. .. .. . 
~2x~~a -~i~~-~~~~-~~-~ .......J9e 


Tbese are not weekly speeials. Tbese are everyday ALDI®low priees. 
3207 Llncolnway West South Bend, IN Mon.-fhurs.. 9am· 7pm ~r!!iay 9om-8pm Saturday: 9am • 6pm Closed Sunday 

929N.Eddy South Bend, IN 
Mon.-Thurs.: 10am -7pm 
Friday: 9am • 8pm 
Saturday: 9am •6pm 
Closed Sunday 
~ ~ 
New Crop 


Calif. Pears 
irreg.. light syrup 
29o' [~~ 
.. ~w~!!~69e_.. 
Datry and Lunch Meat 

Frozen Foods Totino's Pizza 89~ sausage or combination, 11.2 oz. .... Ban~:~uet Chicken or 
29e 
Beef Pot Pies, 7 oz......... 100% Pure Orange Juice 69e 
grade Afancy, 12 oz. •......... Produce 
~-~s;~',~~ta.t~~ ............. SJ19 
~~~~~r~~:d;,~~0~..........59e Red Delicious Applee 
99.1. 
U.S. fancy grade, 3 lbs. • • • • ..• • "'o­
Brach's Candy ALDI 
Chocol8llt PMnds, 12 CIZ. .... Prlee 
Chocol8llt Ralslne, 12 az. SJ69 Peanut Clu.lels, 12 CIZ. 

We welcome c••h •nd food atempa. No check• pie••· The Stoek-Up Store~ 

• 
r 

~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t_________________
w_ed-nes-day_,o_cto-ber-29,_198-6,--pa-ges 

Divestment would show 'willingness to grow' 
Samuel Williams, the venerable old vestment in that country has been noth­percent of the black population under tions against South Africa. mentor to Martin Luther King, Jr., once ing short of disastrous. Nearly a year the age of 18 is becoming increasingly It is obviously too late for Notre observed that, "The Church has never ago, Notre Dame's trustees demanded radicalized. Notre Dame, like the Dame to retrieve the mantle of progres­been a leader in social change, always that the University seek to "pressure United States at large, must avoid sive leadership on the issue of divest­a follower, and we musn't expect any the South African government to aban­aligning itself so completely with the ment. But the University could still more from the Church except that it don apartheid and to negotiate with white oppressors in South Africa that present itself to the world as a striking will, as it has in the past, sanctify that legitimate black leaders." But nothing no subsequent group of leaders will witness to the power of conversion. By which has been accomplished by has changed for the better in South dare to regard us as conceivable consenting to divest, Notre Dame could others." For the past three decades, Africa during the past year. The white friends of the oppressed. provide a dramatic example of its own the University of Notre Dame has government remains intransigent to South African black leaders have willingness to grow, to admit its own sought to demolish this bleak impres­the point of fanaticism. Blacks continue long since figured out which way the error and to shift its sights in the light sion of Christianity as incorrigibly self­to lack any framework of law to which winds of change are blowing. The of obvious and intractable realities. serving and indifferent to human they can appeal in their quest for African National Congress, the United rights. Through University President equality. The death toll continues to Democratic Front, the Congress of Rev. Beyers Naude, General Secre­Father Theodore Hesburgh's much rise, as South Africa drifts along the South African Trade Unions, and the tary of the South African Council of publicized work on behalf of world downward spiral towards chaos. And South African Council of Churches con­Churches and recent recipient of an peace, civil rights for blacks and reli­Notre Dame continues to invest at least tinue to implore American institutions honorary degree from Notre Dame, gious ecumenicism, for instance, the $34 million of its $300 million endow­to divest in order to hasten change in once observed that, "God has a funny University has conjured up countless ment in American corporations which South Africa. The South African Cath­way of confronting human beings and new ways for the American Church to do business with South Africa. Such olic bishops have described economic human societies at the most awkward take a progressive stance on a variety "constructive engagement" has thus pressure as "the most effective non­moment of their existence in history of public issues. far achieved next to nothing towards violent form of pressure left." with their refusal to face up to them­
the dismantling of apartheid or the In the United States, the National selves -which is exactly what God has Isaac McDaniel, O.S.B. return of peace to South Africa. Conference of Catholic Bishops last been doing with South Africa." Perhaps We must accept the fact that South month urged all dioceses and Catholic God is doing the same with Notre Africa's season of violence will very institutions to divest their holdings in Dame. In any event, the Universityguest column probably run its course, no matter what companies still operating in South ought to take the financial plunge and American companies decide to do. Africa. Numerous Protestant and divest now, before it finds itself still 
It is precisely this humane and pro­Whether five years or a generation Jewish groups have announced divest­colluding with Pretoria after even Jerry gressive heritage which makes Notre from now, South African blacks will ment plans in recent months. At least Falwell and the last holdouts of corpor­Dame's refusal to divest from compan­eventully win control of the ancient a dozen states, and more than 30 cities, ate America have decided to abandon ies which do business with South Africa land which they so rightly call their have passed ordinances requiring the South African ship of state. so disappointing. For those seeking own. Already blacks outnumber whites divestment. The United States progress towards racial equality in 5 to 1 in South Africa. That figure will Congress several weeks ago voted to Isaac McDaniel is a resident of South Africa, continued financial in-rise to 9 to 1 by the year 2000. Sixty impose a long list of additional sane-Brownson Hall. 

P.O.BoxQ 
wanted to advertise their vulnerability, 23, 1983, Reagan did "make history asReagan's sensibility and their concern to not do so has con­one who wanted peace and an end to tributed to their reluctance to accept the arms race," while concurrentlycaused summit failure mutual deterrence in the past, with its demonstrating the superiority of his stress on mutual vulner ability, as a sensibility over those with an ignorance 
Dear Editor: sound basis for Soviet-American rela­of policy complexities. • 
What has come out of the recent tions. Steve NicgorskiIceland summit is not a portrayal of However, Soviet military thought has Grace Hall President Reagan as "ignorant" or " had to adjust in light of the potentialjust plain arrogant" as Andrew Saal development of SDI, and anti-ballistic would have us believe in his letter defense and first strike missile system Institute and memorial (Oct.l7), but rather a transformation which, if successful, could provide the of Soviet-American strategic relation­United States an escape from the prison can peacefully coexist ships due to technological develop­of terror created by the current rela­ment. tionship of mutual vulnerability. Dear Editor: 
In years past, Soviet theorists did not Reagan has understood that the nu­I have just finished reading Professor equate the level of technology with mil­clear arms race inspires a feeling of Dolan's letter in the Oct. 16 issue of The itary effectiveness. This was based on helplessness and terror. He challenged Observer. "Everybody to his own many other factors: the quantity of those, like the Soviets, who believe that taste," said the fellow when he kissed
r 
weapons, their organization into divi­the superpowers can avert war only the cow. sions or forces, and the training and through the threat of mutual annihila­I view the new memorial as a tribute skill of the troops. With these in mind, tion, by calling upon the scientific com­to the men who gave their lives for their Soviet leaders have continually pre­munity to create "the means of render­country during the war. Perhaps we sented their country as powerful, even ing these nuclear weapons impotent ought to have another memorial to to the point of hiding its weaknesses by and obsolete.'' With statements such as those who avoided service and did not 
deception and bluff. They have not this and the proposal of SDI on March have the intestinal fortitude to put their 
Garry Trudeau 

I'U.HAvtHIMPUU. lACtY, aY/Jt'sTHF?OIJI-WOULJJN'r rr 
T06F!HER. SOM& lNG TH&M IJJWAND 8t8tmR 
15LACEY FAST TV$POTS TO HAF?I). UIEHAVE7lJ60 TO JUST 
IJAVENPOI<T 

(J}/JNT&R aYOE'5 ON 7H/3CH£N51VUJE-IGNORE 
AJIJNI<!E?... INNU#JflOS. FO/?t IT6err3 OfiTCF HIM'? 
~L.' I 
I 
lives on the line for their country. I would prefer to pray in front of the former rather than the latter. 
The memorial and the Institute for International Peace Studies are mutually inclusive and perhaps even St. Thomas would agree with this. One is a memorial and the other an institute to work for peace so that new memorials would not be necessary. 
The ROTC programs are training persons for Volunteer Service just as much as Peace Corps and the Holy Cross Associates do. Commissioned of­ficers in the armed forces can have a very positive influence if they are trained at a Catholic university. They are only warriors in time of war when the country needs warriors. It does not make any difference whether the war­rior is Catholic or not but rather that 
hMihe  is  working  to  serve  hisher  
country.  
Robert J. Waddick  
Assistant Dean  
College of Arts and Letters  

Quote of the day 
"You can preach a better sermon with your life than with your lips." 
Oliver Goldsmith (1728-1774) 
General Board




Ihe Observer 
Editor-in·Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor................ Scott Bearby Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor. .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor. ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Maione their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 


Accent 
Wednesday, October 29, 1986,-page 7 


CHICAGO 
Between a fern bar and a hard place 
JOE BUCOLO Senior staff reporter 
As one walks around campus during these last few days of good weather, one sees many types of emblems on shirts and jackets. Think, for a moment, and decide which institution (beside Notre Dame) is represented the most. The ob­vious answer is the Hard Rock Cafe. 
Ever since the first Hard Rock opened in London on June 14, 1971, the restaurants have be­come some of the most popular in the world. People travel long distances just to eat in these en­tertaining places. 
Years ago, Peter Morton and Isaac Tigrett formed a partner­ship and opened the world's first Hard Rock Cafe in London. It was a place place full of rock 'n' roll and movie memorabilia, and the waiters and waitresses dressed in old-fashioned outfits. The novelty of the restaurant earned it instant success. 
Shortlyafter the first Hard Rock opened, the partnership be­tween Morton and Tigrett dis­solved; however, the success of the Hard Rock lived on. Each ex­partner recognized the potential of the restaurants and began to open more cafes on his own. 
Today, the Hard Rock Cafe's symbol is a world-wide favorite. Morton's restaurants include those in Los Angeles, San Fran­cisco and Chicago. Tigrett owns cafes in New York, London and Stockholm to name a few. 
The newest Hard Rock Cafe is in Chicago. The restaurant itself is one of the larger ones and con­tains hundreds of interesting ar­tifacts. The cafe opened on June 27, 1986 and has been a success from the start. The cafe provides all sorts of food from hamburgers to health shakes. Chicago's Hard Rock is a fun place to eat as well as work. Rob Goldberg, an employee of Chicago's Hard Rock, says that the cafe is popular because it of­fers "good food at a cheap price, great atmosphere, and interest­ing rock memorabilia." 
Memorabilia is what makes the Hard Rock so much fun. The res­taurant in Chicago, for example, has Phil Collins' drum, George Michael's jacket, Boy George's cape, Harrison Ford's Indiana Jonesjacket, and many other in­teresting pop artifacts. There's even an old "National Enquirer" from the days of Elvis. The Hard Rock acquires these items in three different ways: some are rented from various record com­
"Some people visit the Hard Rock Cafes for the sole purpose of purchasing some sort of souvenir. The cafes sell buttons, sweatshirts, towels, caps, jackets and many other things that the public loves to buy." 
panies, others are purchased and others are donated. 
Some people visit the Hard Rock Cafes for the sole purpose of purchasing some sort of souvenir. The cafes sell buttons, sweatshirts, towels, caps, jack­ets, and many other things that the public loves to buy. People spend hundreds of dollars every day on these items alone. This is evident even on Notre Dame's campus. 
Many people are concerned about the alcohol policies of the Hard Rock Cafe. The policies vary from location to location, espe­cially in Europe where there is no drinking age. In Chicago, the Hard Rock has a good system. Those under the age of 21 must be in before 8 p.m. This helps to prevent the possibility of a minor getting alcohol, yet allows people of all ages to enJOY what Hard Rock has to offer. Those who are over 2 I are often carded simply for protection. 
The Hard Rock Cafes also offer a great variety of special events. 
Many Chicago radio stations broadcast from the Chicago Hard Rock and sponsor special pro­motions. These events attract a lot of attention and people, from which both the restaurant and the radio station profit. 
It is interesting to see what type of people visit the Hard 
Rock.  Young people and  teen­ 
agers  are  obviously  attracted.  
They  are  constantly  at  the  

Chicago cafe. Lunch time however, is a different story. During lunch hours, Chicago's Hard Rock is full of businessmen and senior citizens. These older people really enjoy the Hard Rock and their attendance proves that most people are young at heart. 
The future of Hard Rock is bright. On Nov. 7, Morton will open a cafe in Houston. He is also planning to open restau­rants in Honolulu and Australia. Tigrett is opening a cafe in Dal­las. 
The Hard Rock Cafes are fun places to see and at which to eat. They provide hundreds of inter­esting items from the past and present. The food is excellent, too. If you have the chance, visit one and see what the world is talking about. 

The Russians are coming! The Russians are coming! 
"Prices must become an active factor ofeconomic and social policy. We shall have to carry out a planned reacljustment of the price system as an integral whole. Prices must be made more flexible; price levels must be linked up not only with the outlays but also with the consumer properties of the goods, their effectiveness and the degree to which products meet the needs of society and consumer demand. " 
Mikhail Oorbachev Political Report to the 27th Party Congress 
One of the first things that struck me in Moscow was the immense amount ofcontruction going on. Thirty-story cranes are almost as much a part of the skyline as are 25-story buildings. According to our tour guide, the average Soviet upgrades his home once every five years. Perhaps this statistic is overinflated, but I could believe it after seeing the level of building in Moscow. 
We waited in line for bread once -no, it didn't take hours. We waited maybe five minutes and bought some quite filling bread rings for six kopeks. That's a dime at official exchange rates and maybe two cents at black market rates. Granted, the average Soviet makes about $8,000 a year, but his rent on a flat is $30 a month. All in all, their standard of living is about half that of Great Britain -about one quarter of ours. 

Mark McLaughlin 
This is apparently a substantial improvement over the postwar period. According to Soviet figures, suspect as they may be, real per capita income has increased 160 percent over the past 25 years. 
Russia is not a rich nation, but neither is it poor. Much has been made of the increasing capitalist tendencies of China ­the intensive modernization, incentive programs, and entry of foreign companies into the vast Chinese market. What many do not realize (at least I had no idea) is that a similar process is going on in the Soviet Union. Quickly. 
The Political Report by Gorbachev, basically a state of the Union address to the Communist Party, is quite an informative little book. After one wades through all of the condemnation of the imperialist powers and the flag-waving and starts to read Gorbachev's concrete proposals, they sound remarkably un-Communist. He promotes self-criticism by Soviet society. He wishes to link price to quality of goods to promote hard work. 
Sounds familiar, doesn't it? 

IfGorbachev succeeds in implementing these policies (and there is little doubt that he will), we may all be in for a big surprise. The one complaint that we heard from the Soviet people was that there was no reason to work hard. Now there will be. 
When one thinks about it, these people have done remarkably well considering the resources that they have. Moscow is only slightly farther south than Juneau, Alaska; the southernmost point of the Soviet Union is about parallel with Cincinnati. Their growing season is short and their food supply limited. They have vast amounts of land but not much else. Yet they build like crazy and feed almost 300,000,000 people with a crippled non-incentive economy. 
If they ever get their economy in gear, the Soviets could become a force to be reckoned with economically as well as politically. Are we up for that kind of challenge? 
Even now the Soviets are pulling ahead in areas where the United States was once supreme. In the most obvious field, weapons, they are certainly even with us where 10 years ago they were not. In technological fields like laser and particle beam research, they are I 0 to I 5 years ahead of us. Similarly, In space they are beating us with antisatelite systems, a manned space station, and a massive rocket booster program which are all in working order while we do nothing. A space shuttle, technology thought of as American, has been developed and is being tested by Soviet scientists. Even their ice cream can compete with America's best. 
Japan has already proven that the U.S. economy is vulner­able, and that American industry can be beaten. Other nations may soon do the same. The European countries are slowly learning to work together economically, as demonstrated by their trade agreements and cooperative ventures like the Ariane space program. China is modernizing at an incredible 
rate. 
And now it looks as ifan increasingly capitalist Soviet Union is about to join the economic frenzy. And, unlike our other competition, they have political might to match. Are we ready? Or are our heads in the sand? Khruschev said "We will bury you.'' While he probably didn't have economics in mind, he might still be right. 

-

Phil Collins' drum on display 
-
-~­

The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1986, -page 8 


Sports Briefs 
The ND sailing club will hold a meeting tonight at Gianetto's. All members are welcome, and are reminded to bring money. Meet at the main circle at 5:45. -The Observer 
A spe«;ial ticket sale for the World Wrestling Federation's card of matches at the ACC on Nov. 19 will be held for ND and SMC students only today until 5 p.m. at the Gate 10 ticket windows of the ACC. Among the featured wrestlers of this card are Hulk Hogan, "Mr. Wonderful" Paul Orndorff, and "Rowdy" Roddy Piper. Students must present a valid ID. Tick­ets are priced at $12 and $9. -The Observer 
The ND judo club will resume practise today. All members are encouraged to attend. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold practise tonight at 7 in Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Tournament pairings are ready for the following NVA ac­tivities -co-ree basketball; badmitton; men's, women's and grad volleyball; and men's and women's raquetball. It is the participants' responsibility to call NVA at 239-6100 for match info. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will take place Monday, Nov. 3, from 7:15 to 8:30p.m. in the NVA office. The test is free, and participants should wear shorts and will be tested on a first-come, first-serve basis. -The Observer 
The POW-MIA five-mile and one-mile runs will be held Sun­day, Nov. 9 at 1:30 p.m. beginning at the Ramada Inn on East Lincoln Road in Kokomo. Proceeds from the race go to the National League of POW-MIA Families. Call (317) 456-5406 for more information of race registration. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Field Hockey faces Valpo rematch 
By MARGOT MACHECA Sports Writer 
After the Notre Dame field hockey team's 0-4 loss to Big Ten power Purdue on Monday, head coach Jill Lindenfeld looks at the rest of the Irish's season with hope and frustra­tion. 
The hope lies in the Irish's strong and consistennt defen­sive play, while the frustration rises because of the team's mounting number of injuries. 
"We played our best game as a team against Purdue, who is second in the Midwest and na­tionally ranked," notes Linden­feld. "Although we did not sus­tain a significant offensive threat, there was accurate passing to the forwards and great defensive play." 
The team's most unen-DiGiacomo would be out for the remainder of the season with a knee injury. 
''Corrine hurt her knee before break and did not travel with us to Boston," said Lin­denfeld. "We are going to have to look to some experienced, younger players to man our front line." 
The forward line had already been thinned out with the loss of co-captain Mary Wagner earlier in the season. 
Despite the recent losses, the team travelled to the East over October break to try and im­prove on its 5-5 season record. 
The Irish returned home with three disappointing losses and one tie, yet with continually im­proving defensive intensity. 
The team began the road trip with an 5-0 defeat at the hands of Lowell College and an 6-0 loss to Bently College. High­
couraging news came a day -1ighting each of the matches after the match when Linden-was the strong performance of feld learned the Irish all-time junior goalie M.J. Beetel. leading scorer Corrine "M .T i" gPtting hetter :md better every game in the net," notes Lindenfeld. Beetel tallied 22 and 32 saves respectively in the first two games. 

Seniors Stephanie Giggetts and Bernadette Suplick each scored a goal on assists by Benet DeBerry in the Irish's 3-2 loss to Holy Cross College. 
"We played our best in the third game of the trip," stated the coach. "Bernadette and Meg McGlinn played well on the offensive side, while Caroline Berezny and Joanne Marshall executed defensive­ly." 
The Irish wound up the trip with a 0-0 tie with Gordon Col­lege before returning home to finish out the season's final three games. 
With continued defensive strength and improving for­wards, Notre Dame travels Valparaiso today in a rematch of an earlier season game. The Irish won that contest by a score of 6-0. 

Penn St. climbs to 2nd in AP poll 
Associated Press 
Penn State Coach Joe Paterno, whose Nittany Lions climbed to No. 2 in The Asso­ciated Press' college football rankings following a surpris­ingly easy 23-3 victory over Al­abama, says his major concern is Saturday's game against West Virginia. 
"I haven't thought about it (the ranking), and I'm not going to think about it," he said. "I think we've got to settle down and get off cloud nine and start thinking about playing a good football game against West Virginia." 
The victory moved unde­feated Penn State up from sixth in the poll and dropped the Crimson Tide from the ranks of the unbeaten in a fall from second to eighth. 
"I really don't know how the team's going to react to it, and I'm not going to ask them." Paterno said. 

Alabama Coach Ray Perkins said it was obvious last Satur­day against Penn State that Alambama is not a great foot­ball team, and that overcoming the defeat will be the real test. 
"Sometimes you learn a lot more about yourself in how you get up off the ground after you've fallen than when things are going good," Perkins said. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordprocesslng-Typing 272-8827 
TYPINGWOROPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. 
EXPERT TYPING ·SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
JAZZ, NEW WAVE, CLASSICAL, THE BEST STAFF IN THE WORLD, WSND RULES. (and by the way we're having a lund drive.) Nov 2 • 9. 
NOW doing typing In my home tor stu· dents. Call 232-1683. 
Attention MAO-TOWN BOUND people going with the WCONSIN CLUB!!! Don't miss the bus! Be at the main circle at 3:15 on Friday to sign Insur­ance waivers. The bus will leave at 
3:30 and ETA In Madison Is 7:45 CST near the SE dorms at Frances & Johnson. Will leave from Madison at 12 p.m. CST. Eat cheese or Ole Ill! 


\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST GOLD-TONE PEN ON 10-14-86 IN THE ADM. LOG. OR ON WAY TO LIBRARY. IT HAS GREAT SENTIMEN­TAL VALUE, AND WOULD APPRECI· ATE ITS RETURN. CONTACT DAVID VERRINOER, HISTORY DEPT, 348 O'SHAUGHNESSY. 
HEY RAY You called me and said your parents found my purse. Where did they leave ft. Help me! I need my 1.0. and other esaentlals. CALL MEI MOLLY (megan) 284-5474 
LOST: One gold necklace with 3 charms ("Praclous," a hall-heart and a cross). Of GREAT sentimental valu• ·a reward Ia available! Pleaae call Llae at 2882, 218 Lyons. 
LOST POCKET WATCH before the bnaak with letters FS engraved on the back. Great aentlmental value. Very s-oua reward. Call 28&-5245. 
FOUND: Male claas ring ('88) In Oahag. Initials enacrlbed. Call 233-6024 to Identity. 

Dark blue softball jacket was removed Friday nlght(Ocl.1 Oth) from Senior Bar. Description: The lei! chest had "Brendan" and a patch "USC Softball Champions" Also a patch on the left and right sleeves, "1st place" and "2nd place". II found please send to: Brendan McGuire 1216 Rolling Meadow Rd. Pittsburgh PA 15241 
FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL TO IDENTIFY. 1412 
Lost: A leather Hartmann checkbook cover and checkbook left on a bench outside Archie building Friday before break. Please call Danlelle 284-5158. 

FOR RENT 

Two room furnished apt. private en­trance utilities paid 288-0955 morn­Ings. 
FOOTBALL FANS Stay at quiet country Bed & Breakfast near Bristol, IND. Toll Exit (219) 825­5707 
Guests coming lor game need place to stay? Siiverbrook Bed-Breakfast in Niles. Clean, quiet, reasonable. 616· 684-2323 evenings. 
································································ 

WANTED 

Wanted: Babysitter. Part-time, flexible hours. Knollwood. Phone Kathy Dvorak, 2n-1538. 
HANDYMAN wanted -Yardwork, r• pairs, special projects. Available on Saturdays. Drivers license and trans­portation required. £289-9975 alter 6:00. 
DAYTON Need ride any weekend. Please call Lisa 1822. 
Student Spring Break Repreaentatlvea tor Collegiate Tour & Travel. Earn complementary trips and cash lor more Information call (612) 780-9324, or write Naples NE, Minneapolis, MN 55434 all: John 
HELP!! RIDE NEEDED TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND. WILL SHARE EX· PENSES. CALL SHEILA 284·5181. 
Interested In Tal Chi Chuan lor health 
call 277-7152 alter 4:00PM. 
Need part-lime sales person tor evenings & some clerical work. Apply In person at Shoeland North, 50698 
U.S. 31 N. from 4 • 8 p.m. 
Are you Interested In earning up to $8.00 per hour and even more. God· lather's Pizza Is looking lor part time drivers. Aply In person at 52920 U. S. 31 N. 
FULL AND PART TIME WAITRESS' NEEDED. MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMITTY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 46601 

FOR SALE 

TIRED OF CATCHING RIDES ? 74 VW Bug For Sale Dave 2n-1714 
For sale: Apple lie, monochrome scr., and drive. Good condition. $950. Call Steve 3268. 

TICKETS 

Make sura my parents pay second .. mester tuition so I can get out of this place. Sell me 2 GAs lor Penn State so they can experience NO football. Call Mark at 2339. 
ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX • 513­661-9341 AFTER 5. 
NEED 1·5 GAS OR STO TIX FOR SMU AND PSU CALL PAUL 1758 
FOOLISH MORTALS... The YOCKMONSTER needs 4 Penn State GAs and 4 stud. tix to lure un­suspecting human sacrifice victims to NO! CALL 232·5476 to make a deal with the Devil! ...THERE IS NO ESCAPE!!! 
NEED 5 SMU GA'S AND ONE STUD TIK CALL MIKE 3211 OR 3209 
PARENTS COMING FROM PUERTO RICO. NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NAVY GAME. PLEASE CALL 283-3457. 
WANTED: 1 STUDENT PENN STATE TICKET CALL JAY 1226 
Needed: Penn State tix (stud. or GA) call Mike Mella 283-1111 
NEED 2 GAs FOR PENN STATE. WILL· lNG TO MAKE GOOD DEAL. CALL CHRIS AT 1788. 
I NEED 2 SMU TIX!I CAROLYN-3831 
2 ND-SMU GA's 4 SALE; CALL 512· 735-2164 
I NEED SMU & PENN ST GAs.272·6306 
DESPERATELY seeking Penn State tickets. I need GA's and.br student tickets. Help me out II you can! David at 234-3337 
NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT £2174 
NEED 6 SMU TIX 
CALL JAY £2174 
Need Penn State GA'a. Please call Sheila 284-5111. 
NEED ONE SMU TICKET • STUDENT OR GA • CALL 2985 
Need two SMU GA'a. Call Max at 283· 1384 
PARENTS CAN'T BELIEVE IRISH SEASON-HAVE TO SEE IT FOR THEM· SELVES. NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN STATE OR SMU-PLEASE CALL JOHN 3373 
NEED SMU GA'S AND STUDENT TX PAUL-2384 
MEGA $BUCKS$ are awaiting the per­son who will sell me 4 PENN ST GA's tor my family so I can come home tor Christmas! Call Andy at1243. 


PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Desperately need as many llcketa as you will sell-lor SMU and PENN. Can be GIA or student. Call Colleen 284· 5172. 
SENIORS: EXPLORE YOUR DESIRE TO LEARN, TO GIVE, TO GROW, AND TO LOVE WITH HOLY CROSS AS· SOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP· PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CON­TACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (7949); JANE PITZ (5521). 
Thank you St. Jude 
RETREAT"' 'RETREAT" • 'RETREAT Why Am I Catholic? Come join us to explore this question this weekend­Oct. 31 thru Nov. 2. Bishop John M. 0'Arcy will lead the retreat tor young 
adults aged 18-24. For more Info call Cathie Lohmuller at 422-4611 or con­tact Campus Ministry Otllce. 
································································ 
Thank You St. Jude 
................................................................ 
PAMIII HAPPY BIRTHDAY, TRAMP. HEADED TO THE BREAKFAST STORE YET? I HEAR KING CELLAR'S SERVES A MEAN FEAST. ISN'T PUBLICATION SWEET REVENGE? Gert 
................................................................ 
Love you Roomie! Kath Happy, happy 21st, Kathleen Priest! I'll lake good care of you tonight 11 you promise you won't punch me In the eye again! "You are the Ooa­dllng ... " Love you Roomie! Kath 
oEsPERATE...rE'xA·N···wii:"L...oo...A"i:: 
MOST ANYTHING FOR 2 SMU TICK­ETS. -STU OR GA-CALL CAROLYN­3831 
................................................................ 
URBAN PLUNGE DEADLINE EX· TENDED UNTIL FRIDAY. CALL 23&­7943 FOR MORE INFO. 
CALLING ALL IN TRANSIT...LET'S TALK ABOUT THE PASSION R.E.M FANS... RARE R.E.M MATERIAL, B· SIDES, LIVE STUFF, IMPORTS­"BURNING HELL", "TIGHTEN UP", "FEMME FATALE", MORE-ALL AVAILABLE ON ONE HIGH QUALITY TOK TAPE FOR THE PRICE OF 1 AL· BUM. MOST SONGS STUDIO QUALITY AND IMPOSSIBLE (NO JOKE) TO FINO. CALL CHINESE BROS. INC NOW AT 2495 OR 2550 TO ORDER. VERY LIMITED SUPPLY. 
Claire Van Heeke: I hoped you liked the roeeal !rom: "Not Who You Think" 

DANCE! OiiNCEI DANCE! Council lor the Retarded present a HALLOWEEN DANCE Friday, October 31 from 7:30 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m at the LOGAN CENTER 

............................................................!... Aerobathon lor United Way! Nov. 22, 10·4. Sign ups Nov 4,5,6 In the dining halls! 
Thank You Agaln,St. Jude,lor answer­Ing all my prayers. 
"CAN YOU ETHICALLY DEFEND A GUlLTY MAN?" A lecture by PROF. ROBERT BLAKEY of the NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL. 8PM tonight at LaFortune Little Theatre. Sponsored by the Thomas More Society. 
GORBACHEV wants to check out this War Memorial next weekend. He says he'll pay BIG TIME RUBLES lor an STUDENT TICKET tor SMU. Come through lor the big Rusky. Call Jack at 1788 today. 
TRIPOD SAYS: lalalalalalalala I can't hear youll Cheater and Caesar: "Give us crack and we'll do any1hlngl" I reckon at one point there was just about a still In evry holler. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MARQUETTE THIS WEEKEND. LEAVING AT 11 FRIDAY. CALL MARGIE AT 284·5230. 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS STU­DENTS!! O.C. FORMAL THURS., NOV.& AT KNOLLWOOO COUNTRY CLUB TIX $1GCOUPLE CALL RACE FOR 
INFO 234-(1982 (FREE FOOD & DRINK!) 

I'm telling you, they were no good CARPETBAGGERS! 
Elizabeth Barratt's lather tried to stop them. Congratsl I know 11. It's worth it. Isn't II? 
CB·There's a red spot on your pants. Are you aura you satin juice? Godzllla & Zlggy. 
RP-Next lime you have the urge to make e lake, hold your hose. Pee-Wee & Speck. 
SMC French Club sponsoring trip to St. Julie Winery Sal. Nov. 1. $5.0&peraon. For more Info call Hillery 284-5233 or Donna 284-5210. Meeting 148 Regina Wed. 1o-29 at 6:00. 
' ' f f_!_ ~-·-·-·-~ ~ '-'-'-' 0 I ~ 1 . < _ 

The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1986, -page 9 


Morris proves to be Irish soccer's ultimate team player 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The consummate team player. It's a title that many athletes like to think of them­selves as but one by which few can actually be described. Notre Dame soccer coach Den­nis Grace knows one when he sees one, and he's glad he's got one in Randy Morris. 
"I don't think a player could have a better attitude than Randy," said Grace, in his ward, hoping to implement his 
Wine down with our 
quickness and passing ability in an improving offense. Mor­ris has no complaints.
Windjammer Specials 
"Knowing I'd be up front this 
FREE WINE EVERYDAY... 5 til 6:30pm year," said Morris, "I worked all summer at beating my man, getting downfield and scoring. 
A FREE glass of house wine ($1.75 value) or 
non-alcoholic beverage with your choice 
To be honest, I came in hoping of one of these featured menu entrees: 
to be a scorer, but Tiger (junior forward and leading scorer
•Prime Rib 

Bruce McCourt) is taking care
• Boston Scrod 
of most of that. I'm perfectly happy trying to find some of
•Stir-Fry Chicken 
the other guys. For me, an as­
•Chicken Teriyaki 
sist or a hand in setting up a
•Shrimp Creole 
score is as good as a goal." Served with our famous Salad Buffet and 
So far, Morris has five goals your choice of vegetable or potato. 
and eight assists, and Grace
e~~J~·, 
sites other factors which make FREE CHIPS & DIP in lounge 
Morris a multiple threat. 
4:30 to 7:00 p.m. Mon. thru Fri. 
"He might not be a head­
~===30=0=E=.C=o=;:lf:=ax=a=t=th=e=R=ive=r= WI!'~ 
liner," said Grace, "but he has Reservations Accepted 2344477 ••• e.vv~) the ability to draw a double­team throughout the course of a game because of his great speed both with and without the ball. When Randy's double­r.===========~r============~ teamed with the ball, whoever is open usually gets a great pass. Randy is also an excellent 
NO Apparel Headquarters 
third year as head coach of the "I had a good season my Irish. "He practices like he senior year in high school," plays, with intensity, and is one said the 5-10, 155-pound Morris. of those players that you can "I scored a lot, but I knew honestly say gets better every things would be different in col­day." · lege. I was a little tentative at 
Morris, a sophomore from first, and that's against my Los Gatos, Calif., has adjusted style. Once I got used to the well to college play. After start­pace of things though, I settled ing in eleven games as a fresh­down." man, he's been a starting for­Last year as a midfielder, 
ward for all but one Irish Morris had only two goals and contest this year. But this year, an assist in 18 games. This even Morris' starting position year, with an abundance of has been an adjustment. talented freshmen seeking midfielder spots, Grace decided to switch Morris to for­
ll-IE ll-IG'MS J. . __ . __

LIQUIDATION SALE 
\ V lHITE CENTER WFORLAWAND 
50 %OFF EVERYTING IN STORE 

--GOVERNMENT
(Except sweats) 
Complete outfiHer for intramural sports 
on

FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES 
defensive forward who charges well and constantly attacks. The guys look to him to per­form and he does it. We're definitely not the same team without him." 
The team's respect for Mor­ris' ability is complemented by the fact the players are friends off the field. He credits the closeness of the team and Grace's leadership as impor­tant to the team's success. 
"This is by far the closest team I've played on," said Morris. "Things came together last spring when we played in­doors, on a surface that's suited to the type of game I like to play. I played pretty well and I gained a lot of respect from the team. We're always trying to help each other, suggesting things that might work, differ­ent stuff to work on if we get a minute in practice. It's just a good atmosphere. 
"I try not to think of the team's future too much, be­cause I really want to concen­trate on the games we've got left this year. I feel kind of bad for the seniors in that we couldn't have done more this year. We had close losses to In­diana, Michigan State and Ak­ron, games we very easily could have won. That might have taken us a long way towards doing something in the postseason. They (the seniors) are just a great bunch of guys." 
Morris feels that if he is to improve, he needs to expand his role as one of the team's igniters and to capitalize on scoring opportunities He has scored on 5 of his 49 shots on 
Presents a lecture by 
Paul Brodeur author of Tbe Zapping of America and 
Outrageous Misconduct: Tbe Asbestos Industry on Trial 
"ENEMIES OF THE PEOPLE: 

NIKE & ADIDAS 
INDUSTRY'S ATTACK UPON COMMON LAW RIGHTS 
NIKE Open Field (all white) $25.00 
IN AMERICA" 

All CONVERSE basketball shoes $15.99 
Wednesday, Oc:tober 29 3:45pm Memorial Library Auditorium 
~----------------------~
(Except The Weapon) 
LAST DAY· Thursday· October 30! 
SR 23 & Edison Rd. 




Sally's Stitchery

(across from King's Cellar) 
Mon.· Fri. 10-6 Sat. 10-5 
277·7284 

Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 

CONSULTANTS TO 
4219 Grape Road 277-6403


INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
1-----------------------• 
MBA SCHOOL FORUM We have clients seeking qualified individuals with 
Thursday, October 30

language and area expertise regarding foreign 
12 noon to 4:00 p.m.

markets. Part-time and full-time assignments avaiable. Foreign nationals with advance degrees 
Center for Continuing Education from american universities needed as visa 
Lower Level restrictions will not effect certain projects. ~eet representatives from 40 major MBA programs.
Expertise in technical, economic, or scientific fields is required. 
* 
Learn about admission requirements

* 
Discuss unique aspects of the programs 


Send resume, including telephone number to: 
* Talk to school representatives in an informal atmosphere 
Swenson, Crawford &Paine 
Save yourself hours of writing for applications

Executive Search Division 
and catalogues. 


P.O. Box A-3629 
Sponsored by Career and Placement Services

Chicago,IL 60690 
goal this season. 
"Athletes in all sports," said 
Morris, "come across times 
when they can't score. Some­
times I've been open and I've 
either passed off or hurried a 
shot when I should have scored. 
When you're accustomed to 
passing and setting people up, 
sometimes you don't know 
what to do with the ball when 
you get it. It's something I'm 
sure will take care of itself with 
time and practice." 
Grace understands that Mor­
ris, like the consummate team 
player, doesn't always have to 
score to be effective. 
"The thing is, he keeps im­
proving," said Grace. "I've got 
to think that the future looks 
pretty good with the young tal­
ent we have and guys like 
Randy playing better every ~-, 
year." 
Grace takes his squad and a 
10-6-1 record to Valparaiso to 
face the Crusaders at 3 today. 
Grace is catiously optimistic ·about today's contest. 
"Two years ago they took us 
to overtime," said Grace. 
''Anything can happen but if we 
play our game and play it well, 
we'll be alright." 




Hockey
continuedfrom page I 2 
problem of inexperience. 
"For the time being we are going to stress fundamentals so that the players get used to the same style of hockey. 
"Our goal is to progress weekly. The team is well­condition, hard-working and has a great attitude. If we stick to our present work ethic, we are going to be very competi­tive." 
The new faces on the ice are 
freshmen right wings Bruce 
Guay, Tim Kuehl, and David 
Legus; left wing David Fis­
cher; defensemen Bruce 
Haikola, Michael Leherr, and 
Kevin Markovitz; and goalie 
T_..ance Madson. 
"While a few freshmen like 
Kuehl and Markovitz have 
already been thrust into regu­
lar roles, several more of the younger players are close to that transition," notes Smith, "and by second semester al­most everyone will be ready." 
Smith is going to depend on the leadership of junior centers Mike McNeill and Tom Mooney. 
"McNeill and Mooney are ex­tremely talented young men. They lead by example on the ice as well as by their lifes­tyles," comments Smith. 
Notre Dame was instrumen­tal in forming the new confer­ence to which they belong, the 
American Collegiate Hockey
Association. Besides Notre Dame, membership includes Kent State, Lake Forest and Michigan-Dearborn. The ACHA's constituents share a common philosophy education­ally, athletically and financial­ly. ACHA members will play a home-and-home series each year with each home series in­cluding two games. 
Brian Boulac, an assistant athletic director at Notre Dame, will serve as the league's first commissioner. Among his many other respon­sibilities, he will coordinate the 1987 ACHA Championships to be held March 5-7 at the ACC. 
The Irish have two weeks off to prepare for the Pointer Clas­sic held Nov. 14-15, in Stevens Point, Wis. Notre Dame will square off against St. John's on Friday night. The winner of that game will face the winner of the game between 
Augsburgh and Wisconsin­

..______________________. ..______________________.Stevens Point Saturday. 
The Observer Wednesday, October 29, 1986,-page 10 
Women's cross country takes 1st among Little Colleges at Ind. meet 


By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team continued to prove that it measures up to strong competition with im­pressive performances in two major meets. 
At the Indiana Intercol­legiate Meet October 17, the Irish placed first in the field of ten Little State colleges with 56 points, beating second place St. Joseph's (61 pts), third place Taylor (81 pts.) and seven other schools. The team placed fifth overall with 147 points, losing to Indiana (24 pts.), Purdue (57 pts.), Indiana State (103 pts.) and Ball State (111 pts.) 
Julia Merkel, with a time of 
17:55 for the 5,000 meter course, finished 7th overall and 2nd in the Little State Division. Along with Merkel, Irish run­ners Theresa Rice 08:50, Kathleen Lehman (19:05) and Wendy Murray (19:23) were named to the Indiana All-State 


ND men's team has mixed showing 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
While most Notre Dame stu­dents relaxed over fall break, the Irish men's cross-country team battled with some of the toughest colleges in the country. The Irish turned in their best performance of the year in the Indiana Intercol­legiate Meet and then suffered a loss to the Houston in a dual meet. 
The Indiana meet marked the high point of a tough season for the cross-country team. Notre Dame came in third be­hind Indiana and Purdue. Other teams competing in­cluded South Indiana, Ball State and Indiana State. 
The best single performance of the meet was turned in by Mike O'Connor. O'Connor, a freshman took fifth place in the 8,000 meter run. He finished with an excellent time of 24:36. This fast time by O'Connor led the Irish to their best finish in a multi-school meet this year. 
Notre Dame's second meet of 


Tennis 
continued/rom page 12 
Ventress 6-0,. 6-2 in the sixth singles position. 
The steady improvement of the doubles teams was evident as the Irish won two of the three doubles titles. Lohrer and Illig clinched the number two title by defeating Andersen and Ventress 6-3, 7-5. Schmidt and Kelly emerged winners at the number three doubles spot after upsetting top seeds Mary Foot and Sheila Murray of Mar­quette 6-2, 6-4. Schmidt and Kelly ended the season with an outstanding 8-2 record. 
The number-one doubles team of Dasso and Tolstedt lost a close match against Mar­quette's Prescott and Mulcahy, 7-6, 6-4. 
The latest NSC champion­ship plaque may be on the wall, but the women's tennis team is never one to rest on its laurels. It always has its sights on the future. 
"This spring we're striving for a winning record and in the future we'd like to become a respectable midwest con­tender," commented Gelfman. 
the fall break was not as en­couraging an experience. The travelled to the Houston for a dual meet and cam out on the short end of the score. Mike O'Connor, David Garret and Rick Mulvey all ran well but the Irish still fell to an excellent opponent. 
"It was a tough loss we are definitely better than our per­formance in Houston indi­cated," Piane said. 
Coach Piane and the team have a long time to prepare for their next meet. It will be the NCAA District IV champion­ships on November 15. Piane hopes to do well and rebound from their loss to Houston. 
"We have a few weeks to regroup, rest and prepare," said Piane. "We are a young team with a lot of potential." 
The championships will be a very tough challenge for the Irish. 
"We are in the toughest divi­sion in the United States," Piane said. "We have to com­pete against the Big Ten and Mid-America Conference. We also must run against state schools such as the University of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illi­nois, Indiana, Ohio and Mic­higan. Our future is extremely bright. We have unlimited po­tential." 
The Irish will have two weeks to prepare for the champion­ships. If they can regain the form the had in Indiana, they could surprise a few people. 




Sign Upl 
The Observer is now accepting applications for positions in the Production Department. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
We will train you in layout and design techniques 

• 
Chance to advance Get involved 


Sign up now in The Observer's Lafortune office. 
"I compared Paralegal P,ropams 
and chose Roosevelt' 
• 
~ABA-apprOYed JIIOII"IID ill Winois 

• 
Effective ii!)J,oyment assistance-over 500 employers hive hil'ed seveh graduates ­

• 
010ice of time and location-Day and evening clasr.!S m ihC LOOp, ArliDgton Heights 

• 
Diversified curriculum-specialize in Litigation; Cor­porauona; EStates, Trusts and Wills; IWil Estate; Employee Benefits or Generalist 

• 
ILLINOIS STATE GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS 

• 
RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER U. 

• 
Contact your placement office for details 


For your copy oftbe Lawyer 'I Aaaistaat Catalopc aad u illritatioa to tbe Ded iDCoriiUitioa octaioa ill your area, 
writcorcall: 
312-341-3882 




In _.tioowith Tho NationalCeo..,. for Pwalcpl Troinina 
~-----------------------­~----------------------­
City--------Sta~---Zip __ 
team. Sophomore Kristine Dragani finished eighth for the Irish in her first varsity com­petition. 
Coach Dan Ryan said that despite a time gap of 2: 18 be­tween the first and fifth Irish finishers, everyone on the team ran personal bests at the Inter­Collegiate meet. 
"We were kind of lucky," Ryan said, "but I can't complain-everyone ran their best races of the year." 
Ryan noted that three Irish runners greatly improved their times over those at last year's I-C meet. Merkel improved by 
1: 18, Lehman by 2:48 and Nancy Loughlin by 2:19. Last year the team placed 8th in Little State and 12th overall. 
The Irish women turned in a second place finish at the North Star Conference meet in Mil­waukee on Saturday. DePaul won the team competition with 30 points, followed by Notre Dame with 55 and defending champion Marquette with 62. Dayton (94 pts.), Cleveland State (109 pts.) and the Univer­sity of Illinois at Chicago (190 pts.) completed the field. 
Ryan was pleased with the way the team beat Marquette. The Irish showed improvement over earlier meetings this year between the two conference competitors. 
Julia Merkel again led the Irish, finishing 2nd overall with a time of 18:25 and earning All­Conference honors. Rounding out the Irish top five were Leh­man, Rice, Linda Filar and Loughlin. Also competing for the Irish were Wendy Murray and Terry Kibelstis. 
"We did not run a good race time-wise," said Ryan, "but it was a great strategic race. As a team we ran better than ever before." 
The next meet for the Irish is the District meet at Illinois State November 15 followed by the National meet in Tuscon, Arizona. 


Welcome ~~k_Wednesday ~~ 
~ 



Jamaican Specials 
(no problem, man!) 
Thursday: ,.._. Music by The Urge MooseJaead $1 Molson $1 
~~~~f= 

_, Halloween FRIGHT NIGHT 

---~ --~-----------~-­





~~~~~----------------------------------------------------·W--e•d-ne•s•d•a~y,~O•c•t•o•be•r•2•9~,-1~98~6~,--~p;ag~e~ll
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Pr!R!Nb me M/t.UNN/11 1HIIr MIW ANP fOWL. HI1Vt 50f/GifT 1/NIJ .5NIIR£1l WM5"' 


Beer Nuts 
PUI?IIVG 7H6 frlii.L.6NN!A 1M

MAN ANI? ffJW' . ·~· .. 1HE 5WKY 
IIIII? 5NA/?EI?'~ • ·~INK/.EY ~----s wrINtR ~~-....lf«<WI 
/ .

1\JeX(!TlC .51NG£1? Mill(/~ OSMON/? Wlt.t.., R£~1/T, WilL 
Be MIIKI?Y!NG A61/IN. ­



Mark Williams 



Campus 
3:45p.m.: English Dept Colloquium, "The ABA Formula in William Carlos Williams' 'Kora in Hell: Improvisations."' Speaker: Roma Huk, Wilson Commons, free 
7:00 
p.m.: Toastmasters International Meeting, 223 Hayes-Healy 

7:00 
p.m.: Presentation for graduating seniors interested in career opportunities with the First Boston Corporation, spon­sored by Career and Placement Services, 122 Hayes-Healy 7:00, 9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "Psycho," $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 7:15-8:30 p.m.: Fellowship meeting, The Spiritual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan­Stanford Chapel 8:00p.m.: Thomas Moore Society Lecture Series, "Can You Ethically Defend a Guilty Man?" Speaker: G. Robert Blakey, Oneill Professor of Law, LaFortune Little Theater 9:00p.m.: Debate, topic, "U.S. Response to International Terrorism." Speakers: two teams of students, free, all welcome, Grace Hall 



Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Spaghetti with Italian Sauce & Meat balls Broccoli Cheese Casserole Broiled Haddock Almandine Garden Salad Croissant 

Saint Mary's 

Turkey Divan Hot Roast Beef Sandwich Broccoli Cheese Pasta Deli Bar 
Give a hoot. Don't pollute. 
Forest Service, U.S.D.A. rll 
Syndoc.le \Q ·lq 
The Pillsbury Doughboy meets Frank's Asphalt and Concrete Paving Service. 



The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Smile broadly 5 Soda flavor 9 Savalas role 
14 St. -'s fire 15 Ancient lyre 16 Day's march 17 Baseball 
family name 18 Rejoicing 20 Bahamas port 22 Cousin of hiss 23 Name in autos 24 Shore bird 25 "No man-
island" 27 Ivanhoe's creator 
30 "I've never 
-purple..." 31 Perform 34 Grayness 35 Gum amount 36 Realm 38 Heartburn 
remedy 40 Actress Mona 41 Custodian 42 Col. degs. 43 Gambling town 44 Asner and Ames 6 Columbus 45 Certain con campus 47 Mideast bigwig letters 48 TV's Norman 7 Tried to 49-Khan influence 50 Whales Congress 54 Thus 8 Melodic 55 Disregard 9 N.Z. parrot 59 Loony 10 Preminger 62 Maleficent 11 Hoosegow 63 Playwright 12 Footless one 
Edward 13 Venturi and 64 Cleveland's Stabler waterfront 19 Repair shop 65 Giraffe courtesies 
feature 21 Paintings 66 Violin kin 26 Moniker 67 Actor O'Neal 27 Tremble 68 Very: Fr. 28 Shaped like 
a strobile 
DOWN 29 Joyce Carol ­1 Edible seed 30 Glum 2-Cinders 31 Actress Anouk 3 Heb. prophet 32 Derrick 4 Football play 33 Choir voice 5 Lousiana 35 Most lean 
indigene 37 Enduring 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 
S E T S P 0 R E S C H 0 W W A I T A B 0 R T I 0 T A A S E A R E T I A R 0 0 F 

-L 0 DE L S U­AS Pll R E T A I L SIP IN S P ATK E D R 0 N E.E R A 
S I TIE ..SCAM
A C E-. W H A L E S T I 0 N E M A NTD R ElL L THEIS I S -OAT SHOP­

ONTOIOFTHEIORLO
N E E D R U M 0 R N E E R C A R L I S E R E I 0 E A E R N E C E N T S T 0 R Y 
39 Cubicle 40 Way off 42 Winged 
messenger 46 More impartial 47 Urge 49 Author Conrad 50 Actor Sharif 10/29/86 51 Acting part 52 Lee J. or Ty 53 Snicker-­56 Finished 57 Paddy plant 58 Wapitis 60 Wine quality 61 Hush-hush gp. 


J'l 4·1, _I • I • 
..
....' .' ..... ' .. ' ...... . 

~------~------~-------------­
Wednesday, October 29, 1986,-page 12


S~orts 
Women's tennis wins NSC title; Gelfman earns coaching honors 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team brought its 1986 fall season to a successful close by capturing its fourth consecu­tive North Star Conference championship last weekend. The Irish came away with three singles and two doubles titles in the flighted tourna­ment. 
Head coach Michele Gelfman was also named the NSC Coach of the Year for the second-straight season. But Gelfman also attributes the team's success to the contribu­tion of assistant coach Steve Simone. 
The Irish stood atop the team standings with 46 points. Nor­thern Illinois, whose participa­tion was by invitation, finished second with 35, and Marquette, the team expected to challenge the Irish, placed third with 30 points. 
In both singles and doubles, every Notre Dame player was seeded either first or second in their respective draws, and not one finished lower than runner­up in the championships. 
Since most of the Irish received a bye in the opening rounds, getting into the flow of match play constituted the only problem the Irish encountered. 
"Our entire line up was like a sixth man coming off the bench," Gelfman said. "We didn't have a chance to warm up." 
Freshman Stephanie Tolstedt ousted Northern Illi­nois' Sari Dinerman 6-3, 6-2, to win the number two singles title and Alice Lohrer, another freshman, took the number three singles title with a 6-3, 6-1, victory over Northern Illinois' VanLankvelt. 
Hoops tix set for sale 
Special to The Observer 

Student basketball season ticket sales are slated to begin Monday, Nov. 3, with seniors purchasing their tickets first. 
Tickets prices are $60 for lower arena and $45 for upper arena seating. Sales will be held at Gate 10 of the ACC, beginning at 1:30 and continuing until 6. Sales to juniors will be held Tuesday, followed by sophomores, law and graduate students on Wednesday and freshmen on Thursday. 
Students should have received their ticket applications during break. Anyone who did not should go to the ticket office as soon as possible to get an application. 
Saint Mary's students are not included in this sale. Tickt sales for Saint Mary's will be held by the Saint Mary's Office of Student Activities. 
Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski says he does not envision a ticket shortage. Last year, several hundred freshmen were turned away when student tickets sold out. 
Students should note that the season ticket package does not include the opening game of the Coca-Cola NIT against Western Kentucky on Nov. 21. Tickets for that game will go on sale at a later date. 
Tickets for the men's and women's Blue-Gold games are on sale now at the ACC. Prices are $2 for adults and $1 for students. Proceeds from the gaines will go to Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
The women's game begins at 6:30, followed by the men's game at 7:30. 

Senior co-captain Tammy Schmidt won the number four singles title with a 6-2, 6-1 vic­tory over Lee ann Milne of N. Illinois. Gelfman praised the play of her only senior. 
"Tammy played with a hunger in her eyes," Gelfman said. "Her performance was incredible. She was hitting shots an inch and a half inside the baseline that were not only winners, but her opponent couldn't even get her racquet on the ball." 
Junior co-captain Michelle Dasso, sophomore Natalie Illig 
and  freshman  Resa  Kelly  
finished  runner-up  in  their  
respective draws.  

Dasso, seeded second at the number one singles position fell to top seed Meg Mulcahy of Marquette, 7-6, 6-4. Illig lost to NIU's Andersen, 6-4, 6-4 in the fifth singles bracket, and Kelly was defeated by NIU's 
see TENNIS, page 10 

86-87 hockey preview 
Irish drop season opening pair 

The Observer!Rohert Jones Irish tennis player Stephanie Tolstedt follows through in a match earlier t}lis season. Notre Dame captured the NSC championship over break. Sheila Horox has the details in her story at left. 
By BOB KEMPER Sports Writer 
This past weekend the Notre Dame hockey team opened its 1986-87 season with a pair of losses to Kent State in the first games of the new American Collegiate Hockey Association. 
The visiting Flashes scored two first-period goals in Friday's contest and held off the Irish for a 4-2 win. Fresh­man winger Tim Kuehl of Edina, Minn., and sophomore winger Matt Hanzel of St. Paul, Minn., were the lone scorers for Notre Dame, while senior Tim Lukenda, a native of Saulte Ste. Marie, Ontario, turned aside 20 shots in the losing effort. 
Saturday, Kent State again scored two quick first-period goals and held on for a 2-1 win. Freshman winger Bruce Guay of North Smithfield. R.I., 
tallied for the single Irish goal, while freshman goalie Lance Madson of Minnetonka, Minn., turned in a strong performance by allowing only a single goal and recording 28 saves. 
"I was not at all pleased with our overall performance last weekend," said Notre Dame head coach Lefty Smith. "We were not as free an flowing in the games as we haq been in practice. We need to fore-check better and be more aggressive in the future." 
One area in which the Irish are sure to improve is their power play unit. Notre Dame was only able to convert 1-of-11 power-play opportunities. 
"Our power play was totally ineffective against Kent State," continued Smith. "We were too tentative and unor­ganized. That is something we will concentrate on in practice this week." 

Notre Dame is a very young team with Lukenda and left wing John Nickodemus being the only returning seniors. Thus, Smith sees the 1985-86 season as a rebuilding year, but one that will be very competi­tive. 
"We are still feeling the ef­fects of our move to the club level during the 1983-84 season," says Smith. "Even though we returned to Division I the following season, we did so without the benefit of being able to offer scholarships. This hampered recruiting for a while, but (assitant coach) Tom Carroll did an excellent job bringing in freshmen last year." 
Due to the youthfulness of his squad. Smith is faced with the 
see HOCKEY, page 9 

The pros and cons of an open date 
Off weeks in the season are curious things. 
Coaches and players often try to explain the advantages and disadvantages of breaks during the week, but sometimes that changes after the next game. 
If the team wins, we hear the list of advantages of the break. If it loses, the list of disadvantages is given. 
Either way the team is covered. This little sys­tem works much like popular sayings "Absence makes the heart grow fonder" and "Out of sight, out of mind." Between the two, all possible events are pretty well covered. 
If a team loses, there are several problems that may have occurred over the break. First, the team may have lost its timing. Since this is such a touchy area, and split seconds are precious, one can see how this can happen, especially if the coach has given the team a few days off. 
Another one, which could be loaded in the Irish arsenal, is that the break stopped the team's mo­mentum. Mter a cakewalk over Air Force, the Irish seemed primed to roll over their next op­ponent had they played last Saturday. The break may slow the flow of that ever-elusive momentum. 
Of course, the Mets could have used that one, but they went out and avoided the problem by winning even after their so-called momemtum had been slowed by Sunday's rainout. 
The last explanation used by losing teams we will examine is that the week off took the team's 
mind off football. With no opponent on the horizon, the team lost sight of its goal, they may explain. But all of these excuses can be cast aside with 
a simple victory. 
Mter a victory, a team also has many explana­tions from which to choose. The first one concerns injuries. Mter getting battered and bruised during the course of a season, what better way for the team to get healthy again than to get a week off? 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

Players that normally would miss a game now have one week to rest and one week to practice. How convenient. 
Some may argue that there should be more off­weeks for this reason alone, but that causes scheduling headaches. That means that the season may have to start even earlier in baseball season to end in time for the "bowl season." When the Kickoff Classic, college football's first game of the year, is being played before most students have their class schedules memorized you know that it cannot be pushed ahead much farther. 
Another advantage of the week off, winning coaches will claim, is that the team has time to get away from the grind, even if only for a few days. The disappointments of a season can snow­ball, and with a week off, the players can take a step back. and re-evaluate the direction they are headed, and rededicate the team's goals. 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz said the Irish used the break to get back to fudamentals, especially with the young players. This seems to make sense with the current situation. 
The final reasoning for a victory is that the team had two weeks to prepare for the opponent. Ala­bama was a prime example of this explanation being beaten to a pulp. The problem with this is that if the Irish are going to have two weeks to prepare for a team, Navy might be the last team the Irish choose. 
With a week off to prepare for an opponent, you would hope that the opponent is one of the tougher ones on the schedule, and Navy obviously does not fit that bill. 
Nevertheless, the Irish have had their week off, and their performance on Saturday will decide what the break did to the team. We could be hearing complaints of rustiness, or ravings of the much-needed time off. 
Let's all hope the Irish will be using the second set of descriptions of their break after Saturday's game. 










