Business news -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 43 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1986 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
4 arrested, 
Officials discount 36 cited as 


story saying Malloy 
police raid student party next ND president 
By MARK PANKOWSKI today, has not decided on whoBy MIRIAM HILL 
Senior Staff Reporter News Editor it will propose to the full board. He said the committee won't Associate Provost Father reach a final decision until it
Police raided a Halloween Edward "Monk" Malloy con­votes at a Nov. 13 meeting atparty late Friday night, arrest­tacted Sunday discounted a Notre Dame. 
ing four students and issuing Chicago Tribune story report­The full 49-member boardcitations to 36 others, as crack­in~ that he will be chosen as will choose the new presidentdowns on underage drinking in the next Notre Dame president. the next day, in all likelihoodSouth Bend continued. 
"It seems foolish for them to electing the nominating com­·Under the glare of WSBT venture such a strong assertion mittee's choice. 
television lights and cameras, when (the trustees) haven't The Tribune quoted uniden­police from three area law­voted on it," said Malloy. tified sources on the campusenforcement agencies raided a "But no one can stop them and in Chicago as saying the · party at 617 St. Peter St. at from publishing anything they trustees gradually haveabout 11:30 p.m. 
want,'' he said. reached a consensus in support Four students were arrested Assistant Vice President for of Malloy, whom they say isand taken to jail, one on University Relations Richard particularly well suited to takecharges of selling alcohol with­Conklin also challenged Sun­control of the University after out a permit, another for giving day's Tribune story, which Hesburgh.
false information to a police of­quoted unidentified sources as "Monk is unflappable andficer, and two others on saying the Board of Trustees frighteningly even-tempered," charges of disorderly conduct will nominate and confirm Mal­the Tribune quoted an un­and public intoxication, said 
loy Nov. 14. named campus source •asState Excise . Police Sgt. 
"The people who know don't saying. "He has enormous per­Gregory Deitchley. 
talk, and the people who talk sonal integrity and he's veryThe names of those arrested don't know," said Conklin. bland. He's a perfect president were not available as of Sunday "It's a speculative piece." pro tern." 
night. 
Tribune Assistant The Tribune also quoted un­Thirty-six tickets also were Metropolitan Editor Ed named sources in Chicago asissued for consumption of alco­McManus, however, said the saying Malloy is thought to behol by a minor, Deitchley said. 
Tribune stands by Sunday's the preferred candidate of hisFriday's raid brings the story, which carried the head­religious superiors in the Holynumber of Notre Dame and line "Notre Dame president Cross order; the congregationSaint Mary's students arrested chosen; 'Unflappable' associ­that once operated Notreor issued citations on alcohol­ate provost to succeed Dame.
related charges this year to 
Hesburgh.'' "The cream simply rose tomore than 200. 
"We've got sources that we the top during the searchAs the number of arrests feel are reliable," said process," the Tribune quotedmounts, raids of student par­McManus, who declined to an unidentified source asties here have begun to attract name the sources or provide saying. "Malloy became thenational and local attention. 
any further information about obvious choice." 
This week's edition of 
Newsweek magazine included 
them. However, Notre Dame Mag­the arrests at Notre Dame as Malloy, 45, who also serves azine Editor Walton ·Collins, as as~ociate professor of theol­who wrote a story about the se­
part of a story on underage ogy, is one of five Holy Cross lection process in the maga­drinking on college campuses. 
priests identified as potential zine's Autumn edition, said he "Notre Dame, in South Bend, 
Ind., has gone far beyond successors to University Pres­hadn't heard rumors that Mal­ident Father Theodore Res­loy would be chosen. 
cajolery and warnings," the 
Creatures of the night burgh, who will retire at the ''(The story) was a surprise
Newsweek story said. "Rather than merely breaking up par­A lot of strange things happened on Halloween night last Friday end of this academic year. , to me," said Collins, who like ties, local police now march in · during the grand opening of Theodore's, one of which was the Conklin said the nine­Conklin, described the report
member nominating commit­
startling transformation of John Tadgett into a dog.
see RAIDS, page 3 see SEARCH, page 3

tee, which meets in Chicago 
Observer

American hostage freed by Shiite kidnappers 
celebrates

Associated Press Press in a telephone interview, other Americans, journalist release, "We hold the Ameri­BEIRUT, Lebanon-Shiite Mos­"David is well. He and I had a Terry A. Anderson and educa­can government fully respon­lem kidnappers freed Ameri-conversation together for some tor Thomas Sutherland. It said sible for the consequences of 
20 years 

• can hospital administrator hours. He is looking forward to last year that it killed U.S. any failure to take advantage David Jacobsen on Sunday seeing his family and friends." diplomat William Buckley, but of this opportunity and proceed 
Today's issue marks the

after holding him for 17 no body was found. with current approaches that 20th anniversary of The Ob­months, saying recent U.S. Waite, an emissary of Arch­Three other Americans were could lead, if continued, to a server's publication. 
moves might lead to the release bishop of Canterbury Robert kidnapped ~ Frank Herbert solution of the hostages." 
The first issue of the news­of other American captives in Runcie, reportedly has been Reed, Joseph James Cicippio The typed statement, written paper was published No­

Lebanon as well. shuttling among Lebanon, and Edward Austin Tracy-and in Arabic and delivered to a vember 3, 1966 with RobertJacobsen, 55, of Huntington Syria and Cyprus since other groups claimed to be Western news agency in Sam Anson and Stephen M.
Beach, Calif., was turned over Thursday in an effort to free holding them. Christian radio Beirut, did not say what ap­Feldhaus serving as its first to U.S. officials on a street in foreign hostages in Lebanon. It stations and television re­proaches the United States had editors-in-chief.
Moslem west Beirut. A U.S. was not clear what role, if any, ported over the previous two made. It said if they were not In commemoration of thisembassy official, who insisted he had in Jacobsen's release. days that six kidnapped continued, "we shall take a to-anniversary, Friday's issue on anonymity, said Jacobsen Waite was seen Sunday Americans and two of eight tally different attitude." . 
will feature a special section was in good health and was at boarding a U.S. military French hostages would be let In Santa Barbara, Cali!., 

highlighting the changes in

the embassy compound in helicopter in Larnaca, Cyprus, go. But in Washington, a State President Reagan said he could the Notre Dam&SaintChristian east Beirut. in his first public appearance Department source said U.S. not divulge details of what led Mary's community which
Anglican Church envoy since Friday. officials expected only one to the release, but that "we the newspaper has recorded 
Terry Waite flew in from Islamic Jihad, the under­hostage to be released. have been working thr~>Ugh a during its 20 years of opera­Cyprus, met with Jacobsen, ground extremist group that Islamic Jihad said in a state­number of sensitive channels tion.
and then told The Associated . held Jacobsen, still holds two ment issued after Jacobsen's for a long time." 
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1986-page 2 
In Brief 

6,000 Peace Cards inviting President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev to attend a peac~ summit were delivered to Washington, D.C. by members of a University of Kansas student group. The KU Coalition for Peace and Justice, which extended the invitation for the Lawrence summit, were allowed inside the Soviet embassy and the White House. -The Observer • 
Two businessmen want to sell square-inch parcels of land from the site of the Chicken Ranch, the bordello immor­talized in "The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas," and use the proceeds to build a museum. The bordello, officially called Edna's Fashionable Ranch Boarding House, operated at the .site for more than a century. It got its nickname in the Depression, when chickens were accepted as payment for services. "It's really a piece of history. It will be like a national monument," said Todd Hoffman, president of The Original Chicken Ranch Inc. "It will be first class, a place to bring the wife and kids." The bawdi­ness will be downplayed at the museum and no liquor will be sold, he said. -Associated Press 
The setting was a funeral home, but the guests of honor were still alive-in fact, they were beginning a life together. Lorie Herold, 30, and Rod Craig, 31, chose the Ritter­Larsen Bros. Chapel to exchange their wedding vows Sat­urday, Both are funeral directors for Ritter-Larsen. Craig said he didn't find it morbid to get married in a place usually more suited for mourning. "We thought it-would. be kind of appropriate, fitting and reflecting· of our per­sonal lives and the individuals we are," he said. Decora­tions that could identify it as a funeral home were covered up, he said. No funerals or wakes were scheduled at the chapel Saturday. -Associated Press 
Of Interest~-~· 
"Personal Reflections on the Criminal Justice System," will be discussed today at 4:15p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of Saint Mary's Le Mans Hall. Speaking will be Father Andrew Skotnicki, chaplain at Cook County jail and parish priest at Santa Clara's Church, Chicago. The free lecture, sponsored by the department of Justice Education at the College, is one of a series on issues implicit in criminal justice. -The Observer 
The law profession and business-related opportunities of lawyers will be focused on today at 5:30p.m. in Room 114 of O'Shaughnessy. An alumnus of Notre Dame and Northwestern Law School, Gene Koster, will speak at the lecture which is sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Pre-Law Society. Everyone interested is welcome to at­tend. -The Observer 

Weather 

As everyone has told you, South Bend is a really cool place to be, and today you will discover just how cool it can get. 
Today's temperature will not exceed 50 degrees, and there will be a 30 percent chance of afternoon showers. Needless to say, tonight will be very cool with frost possible, a low in the middle to upper 30s, continued cloudiness and a further 30 percent chance of showers. South 


Bend in fact is never an uncool place to b.e, as demonstrated by Tuesday which will bring continued cloudiness, an addi­tional 30 percent chance of showers and a high in the middle 40s. -The Observer 

Design Editor . ........ Kathy Huston Design Assistant ...... Tom Schiesser Layout Staff. .......... Carolyn Rey Typesetters .......... Chris Reardon News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann Copy ChrisJulka Sports Copy Editor ..... Marty Burns Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Eric Bergamo Accent Copy Editor . ..... Lisa Young Accent Layout . ..... Melinda Murphy Typists ............... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor . ....... La urine Megna AdDesign . ............ Fred Nelson Photographer . ........ James Carroll 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Foundation of a good-newspaper lies in truthful reporting to readers 
I hopped out of the van. Slid open the side door. Grabbed the bundle. Moved toward the dining hall and hustled inside. A small crowd of students waited in ambush. I dropped the bundle in the drop box and jumped back. Hands were everywhere. 
As editor-in-chief, I do many things --some well; some not so well. On that particular day, I was delievering issues of The Observer to the dining hall. They were heavy. 
I barely can carry my bookbag, but I didn't . mind hoisting the bundles of The Observer over my shoulder. People read The Observer. Car­rying it serves a purpose. I rarely read my books. 
From everything I do, I try to learn a lesson or gain some insight. The message the silent crowd spoke to me was that students want what we produce. 
Oh, it may not be The New York Times, but we don't claim that it is. 
Instead, The Observer is Notre Dame's stu­dent newspaper, produced for students, by stu­dents. It is a student product from start to finish. 
We believe that's why it's generally credible and fairly well-received by the students. 
Last week, the managing editor of another daily student newspaper drove five hours to visit our offices. His school's newspaper has twice the budget that we do and five paid adults to supervise it. The only problem is that he can't find enough students to produce the news­paper and those that do are about the only ones who read it. 
On the day he visited our office, his school's newspaper printed the same story on the front page twice. He was too embarrassed to bring me a copy. 
I assured him that we have our problems and that the only papers without problems are those out of production. 
As an editor though, I can think of nothing worse than to produce a newspaper no one reads. 
I told this visitor! don't have any magical formulas for making the problems which so distressed him go away. He wanted his com­munity's respect for the product he produces. I told him respect is something which cannot be demanded, but must be earned. 
We try to earn our readers' respect every day. Sometimes we do; sometimes we don't, but always we try. 
The student was a senior; therefore, time is short. Generally, a newspaper does not fall apart in a day, and, without exception I would suspect, it cannot be built in one either. 
The foundation of a newspaper is reporting the truth. To the reader, I said to him, the truth alone has an instinctive ring. 
If the newspaper is not fair to the people it covers, to the community it serves and to the people it employs, then it may be read, it may be believed, but it will not be true to its purpose. 
Joe -Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 

All of which is a fancy way of saying,· don't lie to your readers. They are too intelligent for that. · 
I tell our staff to be fair. The journalist, some say by nature, is a skeptical creature. Newsmakers deserve to be given a chance to prove themselves, and the press has an obliga­tion to protect the newsmakers, its readers and itself from that which is false. 
Being cautious, though, is different from being skeptical. A good journalist should al­ways be cautious. 
If someone does not have the courage to put his name behind his words, then his anonymous quote should be read with .great caution. 
Freedom of the press does not mean the press has to print all that it receives. 
Questions have to be asked. Answers from all parties involved have to be sought and deter­mined accurate. And even if something is true, that does not mean it's newsworthy. 
Above all, a newspaper can never be satisfied with what it does because its coverage could always be better than it is. 
All of this means you build a newspaper with people, inside and out. Each day, I try to remind our staff, the people our staff covers and the readers who digest the information we compile how important they are. As a newspaper, we try to be responsive to their unique positions and needs. 
From our staff, I call for professionalism and patience even when time becomes an enemy. We may never be perfect, but I think we have the correct foundation, a newspaper true to its purpose. 
And that is, I think, why I am willing to deliver newspapers and why students are waiting to grab them. 

~Goclfather·s Pizza~ Find one. Its worth it. ~M 

I TOPPING PLUS EXTRA CHEESE PLUS A I 
I TWO LITER BO'ITLE OF COKE 
I I 
$5.25 plus tax & delivery II ..............~ I
I ~Pizza. I
One coupon per piau at partkipatin( locationo.
I 

Not valid in cotabU..tioa with any other offer. --~ ' Find ~. 
Offer expires 11/30/86 h s worth II. I
I 

~--------------------~ 
We Deliver to a Limited Area

Goclfatba'•s 
~~~~Pizza~ 
52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN 
277-5880 
-

The Observer 
Monday, November 3, 1986 -page 3 


Apple Computer accounts manager Claudia Wintergerst presents Observer Managing Editor Kevin Becker with a new Macintosh Plus Computer. The Observer received the computer through a special advertising agreement with the company. 
Nobel winner discusses research on black holes 
By DAVID T. LEE 
News Staff 
Nobel laureate Subrah­manyan Chandrasekhar said, in a Friday visit to Notre Dame, there is still "a lot to study" about black holes in the universe. 
"There is a lot of circumstan­tial evidence to indicate ... that one of the elements of a binary star system is a black hole," said the co-winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in physics in 1981. 
Black holes, he said, are "ob­jects with which the gravita­tional pull is so strong that even light cannot escape from." 
Describing how objects re­quire an "escape velocity" to break away from the force of gravity, the native of India said the escape velocity in a black hole exceeds the velocity of light, thereby nullifying any possibility of escape, even for light. 
Chandrasekhar, a professor at the University of Chicago for 50 years, would not disclose his 
specific contribution to our 
The best sales people make an impact on their profession. Your opportunity to make an impact on the vision care They set high goals and achieve them. Not because ofluck, market is now. Put your skills to work for an industry but because of motivation, desire and intensity. Ifyou have .leader. Our representatives will be on your campus Monday, the desire and self-motivation to be a winning sales person, November I7, in the Student Placement Center. Contact your consider Barnes-Hind Inc. Placement Center immediatelyfor consideration and inter­
view appointment. Ifyou can't make it, please send a letter As a Sales Representative for Barnes-Hind Inc., you can be of interest to: part of the fastest growing, most dynamic segment ofthe 
Personnel Department

health care market. And you 'II be working with the nation 's 
Barnes-Hind Inc.

innovative leader in the manufacture ofcontact lenses, solutions and related vision care products. 895 Kifer Road 
BARNES..UIND
Sunnyvale, Ca 94086. ~~ "T1 IN<. 
An Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer 

L--------------------'---------------­
knowledge of black holes, saying it would require him to relate his entire 55-year career in science. 
Our knowledge of black holes are "thought experiments" at the present time, he said, add­ing that the "evidence gath­ered by scientists is most easily interpreted by saying it is a massive black hole." 
He said experiments to dupli­cate a black hole here on Earth have been unsuccessful. "It is the kind of situation . . . that cannot take place at the pres­ent time." 
Chandrasekhar said he be­came a scientist simply be­cause he enjoyed it. "Why not? I'm no different than anyone else." 
Asked what he thought the fu­ture had in store, he gave an anecdote of a friend who had worked at the Mt. Palomar Ob­servatory, one of the largest telescopes in the world. When his friend was asked the same question, he said,"If I knew that, I would not have helped build it (the telescope)." 
Search 
continuedfrom page 1 
as "speculative." 
"To the best of my knowledge the committee has not settled on a name," Collins said. 
The selection process be­came necessary when He~­burgh told the Board of Trus­tees in 1982 that he would retire after five more years. Since then, five Holy Cross priests are believed to have emerged as the likely candidates. 
One of them, Malloy, has been associate provost since 1982. He holds undergraduate and master's degrees from Notre Dame, as well as a var­sity basketball monogram. 
The other potential succes­sors are Father Ernest Bartell, executive director of the Helen Kellogg Insitute for Interna­tional Studies; Father William Beauchamp, executive assis­tant to the president; Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs; and Father Mi­chael McCafferty, associate professor of law. 
McManus said the Tribune ran the story two weeks before the official announcement be­cause it had reliable informa­tion. 
"We get information on all kinds of things ... (that) we don't sit on," McManus said. "If we've got reliable informa­tion we usually go with it. 
"That's the way the newspa­per business works." 
Raids 
continuedfrom page 1 
with breathalizers, ticketing any underage students with al­cohol in their systems." 
Friday's raid was the subject of a two-minute report on the 11 p.m. edition of the Channel 22, WSBT, news Saturday. 
Anti-VIolence Activist 
lAnter fOf Teechlng Non-VIolence & NCTV full·tlme otalf. Lodging & S325/mo. Reeearch on aggreeoion, publishing & lobbying agalnolviolence in TV, film, war loyo, eporto, eroUca, etc. Non·violenllilma. Nexllo UUNnois. Student loaM delerallla. 217-3114-1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 81820 



The Observer Monday, November 3, 1986-page 4 
Democrats confident in Senate race as campaigning comes to a close 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Democrats 
sounded confident while 
Republicans seemed less than 
certain Sunday about the out­
come of their battle for control 
of the Senate, the main prize in 
Tuesday's elections to choose 
the 100th Congress and three 
dozen governors. 

The candidates themselves 
were still scouring for support 
on the final weekend of the na­
tion's costliest midterm cam­
paign. Voters tuned to football 
games got a heavy dose of po­
litical commercials along with 
the customary ones selling 
beer. 

Republicans rolled out their 
biggest campaign weapon one 
more time, spending $500,000 
for a five-minute late night 
commercial taped by Presi-
Tossup races in 14 states as gubernatorial election nears 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Republicans are almost certain to score gains in governor's races Tues­day, but it would take a sweep of 10 tossup contests for them to come out of the 1986 elections with their goal: a majority of the nation's governorships. 
A survey of the races by As­sociated Press reporters in the 36 states electing governors this year found that Demo­cratic candidates appear safe in 11 states and are ahead in two more. 
In five states the 
Republicans are safe, and four 
more states are leaning GOP. 
The remaining 14 states, a surprisingly large number, remain tossups going into Elec­tion Day. But Republicans must win 10 of those 14 neck­and-neck races if they are to capture a gubernatorial majority for the first time since 1969. 
"There's just too many close 
ones to call," said Chuck 
Dolan, director of the Demo­
cratic Governors' Association. 
In an election-year arith­metic that favors the GOP, democrats find themselves defending 27 of the 34 governor­ships they now hold. The GOP, with but 16 governors, defends only nine. 
The races that could go either 
way on Tuesday are largely in 
states now held by Democrats 
Florida, South Carolina, Texas, Nebraska, Kansas, Hawaii, Arizona, Alaska, Wyoming, Alabama and Wis­consin. 
Three of the too-close-to-call 
races are in states now held by 
the GOP: Oregon, Tennessee 
and Pennsylvania. 

Most of the endangered Dem­
ocratic governorships are 
being vacated by popular in­
cumbents. But two Democratic 
incumbents are trying to 
withstand fierce GOP opposi­
tion -in Texas, where Gov. 
Mark White still slightly trails 
the man he defeated four years 
ago, former Gov. Bill Cle­
ments; and Wisconsin, where 
Gov. Anthony Earl has been 
pressed by Republican legisla­
tive leader Tommy Thompson. 
dent Reagan for airing on all three networks. 
Leaders of both parties said they , doubted the release of American hostage David Jacob sen in Lebanon after 17 months in captivity would have an impact on the campaign. Jacobsen, 55, was released in Beirut. 
At stake on Tuesday are 34 seats on the Senate, all 435in the House, 36 governorships and thousands of offices from 
state  legislators  to  local  
judges.  
Both  sides  p:edicted  
Democrats  would  Improve  

their current 253-180 majority in the House by as many as 10 seats. 
There was similar agree­ment all around that Republicans, who now hold 


PART TIME SALES HELP WANTED AT GOODWILL PLAZA STORE 
on Howard & Eddy atfive points. 

FLEXIBLE HOURS, WEEKLYPAY, AND STORE DISCOUNT. 
Call Mrs. Daughtry 234-1661 
I A PLAYSHOP WITH MATTHEW FOX, O.P.l 
I I l I 
RA'IER:
SP
y A N'' 
••eREA1I'II~EDI1A110 R1 AS

A Saturday, Nov. a-9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Beech Grove Benedictine Center 
u~a..rr'~ •
sPIRtT ,, 

••cREA11 ~p~tSSIONCO Lecture -Friday, Nov. 7 -7 p.m. Northeast United Church of Christ 3820 N. Franklin Road. Indianapolis 
.-L--S-'--P-.OIISOR• THE nAliCISCAN HEIIIIITjE 

1 

AUTHOR OF: ORIGINAL BLESSING, A SPIRITUALITY NAKED COMPASSION, & ILLUMINATIONS OF HILDEGARDE OF BINGEN 
{317) 545-07 42 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Family: 
Re-Elect Quality 
Re-elect Robert A. Loeffler 
machine no. 16A 
County Councilman District B Democrat 
Political advertisement paid by Committee to Re-elect Robert A. Loeffler 

only 16 of 50 statehouses, would 
gain as many as nine more. 
But the only agreement about the struggle for the Sen­ate was that the battle was hanging in the balance after ex­penditures of tens of millions of dollars over two years. 
"We're going to be in the majority when the polls close on Tuesday, Senate Republican Leader Bob Dole said on CBS­TV's "Face the Nation." But, he quickly added, "There are a lot of dicey races out there." 
Democratic chairman Paul Kirk said he would be greatly surprised if his party doesn't win a Senate majority. 
Republicans hold a 53-47 majority in the current Senate, but are defending 22 of the 34 seats on Tuesday's ballot. 
Leadership 
Robert A. Loeffler... 
Has given you the National Center for Senior Living, 
which will bring 5,000 new jobs to St. Joe County 
Lowered the County Tax Rate 
Opposed the Local Option Tax 

Paved over 300 miles of County roads in four years 
Is the first eiected official to question the renewed 
annexation effort 
Supports Youth Hockey 

Robert A. Loeffler is .•. 
Incumbent county Councilman, District 8-4 years 
A 1958 graduate of the University of Notre Dame 
Manager of Operations, Notre Dame Athletic & Convocation Center, and a2S yr. Notre Dame employee Council Representative-CountY Job Training Program Chairman, Engineering and Transportation Committee 
Chairman, Maintenance committee, 1987lntemationaJ Summer Special Olympics 
Gary Puckett HERMAN'S G~n~ 
&TheUnionGap HERMRS 
NOVEMBER 11, 7:30 P. . NOTRE DAME ACC 
Reserved Tickets: $14.00 Ticket sole for Notre Dame & St. Mary's Students will toke place this monday 9:00AM at the ticket windows located at gate 3 of the A C. C. [Fieldhouse Dome). Limit of four[4) tickets per student VALID STUDENT I.D. REQUIRED. No lin$ may form before 6:0L) AM. [Ticket sole for the public will toke place at te 1 0 of the A.C.C. -Arena Domel 
\Tie\Y~_O_i_n_t____________M-onda~y,Nov-embe~r3,1~oos-p~ages 
,.. 

Student senator previews some Important races 
In the past two months I have held a ness from Indiana University. Dr. Long toward the Soviet UniQn and is against Hoosier investors from fraud, promote voter's registration drive, registering has served roles as a management con­contra-aid. the integrity of Indiana's electoral over 250 new voters. Notre Dame has sultant, teacher, and farmer, and feels Republican Candidate: John Hiler. process and administer the corporate over 500 registered voters, presenting that she is experienced enough to be a Hiler is a third-term Congressman laws vital to the state's economic a substantial voter-bloc. The problem senator. who, as a member of the House Banking growth." I see with the registration is that we Republican Candidate: Dan Quayle. Committee, has moved up to become Prosecuting Attorney. are so shielded from outside informa-When elected in 1980, Quayle became the ranking minority member of the Democratic Candidate: Michael P. 
the youngest Hoosier ever chosen to Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, Barnes.
John Gardiner represent Indiana in the U.S. Senate. Coinage and Currency. As a member The current County Prosecuter, He is a member of the Senate Budget of the Small Business Committee, Hiler Barnes in a 1973 Notre Dame Law Committee, chairing the defense is the ranking minority member of the School graduate who has instituted
guest column procurement subcommittee and sup­Subcommittee on Taxes, Access to numerous new programs. He boasts an 
ports a constitutional ameRdment man­Equity Capital and Business Opportu­85% conviction rate against criminals· tion that it is difficult to even .keep up dating a balanced federal budget. He nities. He feels his record stands for and stands strongly against drugs. with local news (if one should ever want has tried to cut federal spending and itself, claiming that unemployment is Republican Candidate: Chris 
,
to). The result is that most Notre Dame has consistently voted for a strong down and economic growth is good -Warter. 
.,
voters probably vote straight ticket. I defense. something to be proud of. He supported A South Bend attorney, he is running really think that that is senseless. If Gramm-Rudman to lower the federal because he is disenchanted with you are going to vote, you should vote United States Representative -Third deficit over the next five years and al­Barnes. He advocates better supportfor the person most qualified. Even if District. though ar:t advocate of a strong defense, for law enforcement officials and better you do vote a straight ticket then you Democratic Ticket: Tom Ward. voted to cut President Reagan's protection of citizens. should at least know for whom you are A 1970 Notre Dame graduate, Ward defense budget request by $32 billion. County Sheriff. voting. The following is a brief, un­is a practicing attorney. He has many He voted for contra-aid and does not 
Democratic Candidate: Joseph

biased biography of each candidate. ideas on issues ranging from agricul­trust the Soviets. Nagy.Pamphlets from the candidates and ar­ture to veterans. His positions on issues State Elections. He has served as Sheriff for the past ticles in the South Bend Tribune are the are specific. In order to confront the Secretary of State. ten months, initiating a number of pro­sources of my information. farming crisis, he plans to serve on the Democratic Candidate: Evan Bayh. 
grams including increased road patrol 

United States Senator . House Agriculture· Committee if sele~­Bayh intends to stand up for ordinary and a drug awareness program.Democratic Candidate: Jill Long. ted, giving farmers a direct influence Hoosiers. He hopes to· eliminate waste­Republican Candidate: Bob Radde. Currently a Professor of Business Ad­through him. He claims that although ful spending and mismanagement of 
A retired FBI agent, Radde is pres­ministration at Valparaiso University, unemployment is down, the new jobs 

state government. He strongly opposes ently the Security Administrator of the Dr. Long claims a knowledge of busi­being filled are low paying "jobs at the abuses of the licens·e branch sys­National Bank at South Bend. He sets 
ness and financial trends lacking in hamburger stands" that do not equate tem, which, through a number of chan­a number of specific goals includngWashington today. She received her with a higher paying secure job. He sup­nels, partially subsidizes the party in eliminating waste and insuringbachelor of science in business ports a strong defense and wants to power, the Republicans. qualified personnel. administration at Valparaiso and eliminate governmental waste. He Republican Candiate: Rob Bowen. received a master of business admin­feels the current U.S. policy toward A former intern for Senator Dick John Gardiner is a senior government major istration and a doctorate degree in busi-Nicaragua is pushing that country ~ugar, Bowen promises "to protect and a student senator. 
P.0.8oxQ 
and one hundred dollar bill. The person 

Parent is grateful for 
who returned a few credit cards, driver's license and a mildewed wallet 

return of lost wallet 
knew of the money and cards and only Dear Editor: hoped that I could salvage something When I attended the graduation of my from this rain soaked mess. 
son from the Notre Dame Law School, A month later I received from the I had the misfortune of losing my wallet Treasury department a check for $150 which contained my driver's license, a for my returned money. few credit cards and a few hundred dol­The person who forwarded my wallet lars in cash. spent time to write a letter plus paying 
We reported our loss to the police and for an envelope and postage and made 
were informed that someone tried to no attempt to obtain a reward or even use my credit cards at a local clothing thanks because the letter was unsigned. store and ran out when the clerk took too long checking the card. Concern for others and honesty were 
The end of a sad story, but not the certainly shown by this kind person and end of the world. I hope you may be able, somewhere in 
However, this tale has a most unusual your fine paper, to let him or her know twist. A month ago I received an un­I deeply appreciate this kindness. signed letter plus my wallet and in the Robert Horas side pocket a very weather beaten fifty St. Louis, Mo. 
Doone 
UM... I'M AFRAJ{)
A 84CHMAN'S IAI!W3113R HAS 
c6AfJS!
I CAN'TGO OUT
8WJ 5P077W ()(JTAT YoseMITE! 
fA/HYNOT?
/JIRI?-IA/ATGI/N6
THIWW ONAWRAP! I'VE GOT TH& 
57l/PE8AK£1< MI?Mf3PUP 
IA/ITH Yal 70PIIY, I MPRCAPY70GO!""' ::e:::;;~~ {)/CK. I 


Trudeau 
I'M RJJN­N!NGFOR ({)NGR/Z6, 
{}tAF.. 
\ 
I 1 
1 1 
1 
j ~ 
1 
1 
1 I 1 
-, 
I 
1 
Quote of the day 
"Never give up and never give in." 
Hubert H. Humphrey 

General Board 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar _Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Photography Manager .......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertifing Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Business 
r 
r 
r-
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
' 
From vegemite 
to record albums 

Alex VonderHaar 
Business Comment 

• Vegemite sandwiches are business as usual for the men at work Down Under. According to TheW all Street Journal, Australians eat about 4,500 tons of vegemite annually, vir­tually making it their national dish. 
Vegemite starts off from a base of yeast slurry, a waste product of beer-brewing. Workers then swirl it with water, salt, onion and celery flavoring to make a dark spread perfect for smearing on a piece of toast. 
Folks give Fred Walker credit for creating this concoc­tion back around 1908. He had to make food that could stand Australia's hot interior in the days before refrigera­tion. 
Most foreigners, however, still can't stand the stuff. In fact, many Americans had never even heard of vegemite before Australian musicians made it big here in the early 1980's. 
• 
Reebok shoes have continued to sell well. Sales and prof­its for Reebok International Ltd. have tripled this y-ear over 1985. In the third quarter alone, for example, sales were $289 million compared to $94 million in last year's period. . 

• 
The record industry may be a misnomer someday. Con­sumer purchases of record albums have declined in recent years because of a growing prefere_nce for cassette~ and, in particular, the runaway populanty of compact disks. 


LP sales, in fact, are running at less than half their peak rate of 344 million in 1977. In dollar terms, cassette sales passed record sales in 1983, and compact disks are ex­pected to surpass LP's this year. The past year has seen albums drop from 30 percent to 20 percent of the $4.5 billion 
U.S. recorded-music market. 
The three million CD players bought in the last three years are a major factor in this trend. The fact that new CD owners will buy as many as 25 disks in the first year encourages many shopkeepers to keep them on their shelves at the expense of conventional records. 
Motown for example, has dropped some older titles from their' record catalogs but plans to continue carrying them on tape and introduce CD's for some of the old al­bums. 
Music companies, however, have stopped short of elim­inating LP's from their new releas~s. Records are st~l the easiest and cheapest way for the mdustry to sell music to the masses. Still, declining popularity will usher a phase­out of the LP. 
"I don't think it will really get going for at least a year. Whether it comes gradually or suddenly then is a toss-up," claims Paul Crapo of Capital Cities·'ABC. 
Although the death of vinyl may be upon us, record buyers can still take advantage of some opportu~ities. First this may be the last chance to buy a 45-rpm smgle. More' importantly, discount "cut-out" albums are in great supply, so you can buy slow-sellers for as little as $3 ~ol­lars, versus the $14 it costs to buy the new generation compact disks. 
Entrepreneur Society brings new options to Notre Dame campus 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 

Big things have minute 
beginnings. 

No one understands that 
more than Ray Powers and 
Chris McLean, co-founders of 
the Notre Dame Entrepreneur 
Society. Like any venture, the 
Society began with an idea. 
"We were sitting around our 
dorm room and saw an article 
in Campus Voice Magazine on 
the Association of Collegiate 
Entrepreneurs (ACE)," said 
McLean. "We said there's 
nothing like that here:" 
They wrote to ACE for more information and ideas. ACE contacted the University of Michigan, a long-standing member of the association, and from Michigan, Powers and McLean got a clue.to establish­ing their own fellowship of entrepreneurs at Notre Dame. 
That was back in the fall of 1984. The following March, they took their idea to a national conference of ACE in Dallas where they learned what stu­dents were doing at other schools and what they could do at Notre Dame. "We saw that some clubs had some ideas we liked and others we didn't like," said Powers of the con­ference. Powers said some schools offered bakery or shirt sales for a business venture. But the Notre Dame entrepreneurs were thinking bigger. "What we're interested in is larger, more original ven­tures," said Powers. 
McLean said the conference was a three-day event involv­ing workshops given by stu­dents and professors, lectures by big-name entrepreneurs, and a trade show which fea­tured an array of products and businesses to be franchised by aspiring capitalists on campus. 
Powers and McLean did not bite on any of'the sales options, but they did get hooked on their own idea. They came back to Notre Dame with a better con­ception of what they were after and looked to Associate Dean of Business Vince Raymond for guidance. 
"Dean Raymond has been phenomenal in helpihg," said Powers. Powers said Raymond, now the club's ad­visor, put them in touch with Jay Jordan, a member of the Business Advisory Council (BAC). The BAC is a group of 42 businessmen who 'have 
graduated from Notre Dame and who are committed to the Business School. 11 of its mem­bers, including Jordan, are on the Entrepreneur Committee, and the club has worked closely with these 11. Powers said these members have made themselves available and "are willing to take time out from their business" to answer spe­cific questions members might have about the club or their own business ventures. 
"We're flexible to new ideas. The club is a " vehicle for new idea~. 
Entrepreneurs in their own right, McLean and Powers have invested in their idea and have watched it grow. · The Notre Dame Entrepreneur So­ciety is now a University­recognized club. McLean, who lives off-camous with Powers, is its president. Membership is growing gradually. 120 people signed up at activities night in September, compared to 40 members who paid dues last year. 
But getting active members has been difficult. As Powers points out, "Entrepreneurs, by nature, don't join clubs." The club has therefore stayed away from too many club meetings. McLean said meetings will be held primarily to let members know what the club offers, such as luncheons with local entrepreneurs. Powers said the best approach for beginning entrepreneurs is to closely in­teract with professional entrepreneurs. 
The Society is also willing to act on the new ideas of its own members. "Our entrepreneur­ship is in building this club," said vice president Brian Mur­ray. "We're flexible to new ideas. The club is a vehicle for new ideas," said Murray. 
One idea that they have im­provised from the Dallas con­ference is the Business Plan Contest, which offers $6000 in prize money. The contest, which began last May, requires participants to submit a plan for a business and present it in such a way that will encourage investment. Plans must exam­ine what amount of capital is needed, what return can be ex­·pected, marketing strategy, anticipated problems and risks for the proposed business. 
The club has been con­centrating on the contest, said Powers, but the idea does not stop there. The Society is also planning luncheon-lectures with local entrepreneurs. "If a student wants to find out about a certain business, we'll set up a lunch with someone who knows about that business . . . to get them knowledge, get ideas flowing," said McLean. 
Another aim of the Society is to get some kind of curriculum for entrepreneurship. "All courses here at Notre Dame are geared to getting a job with a major corporation," said McLean. McLean and Power said they would like to see the Business school fill a chair for entreprenuerial studies. 
The Society also plans to es­tablish a capital fund to which business-minded students can appeal for investment in their business plans. If the Society likes the plan, it will provide funding for the student's busi­ness. "For anyone who did do well, the money would come back; for anyone who didn't, we'd take the loss," said McLean. However, he said, "That's a ways down the road." 
But they and their ideas have come a long way already. "It's a lot more work than we thought it would be," said Powers. "It hasn't taken off, but ·we have achieved things that we never thought we could do," he said. 
Half-jokingly, they envision the McLean-Powers Center for Entrepreneurship at Notre Dame in their future. That may be farther down the road than they can see, but it is an idea. And ideas are what the Entre­preneur Society is all about. 


BOnOM-LINE AUTO LOAN 
NEW TRUCKS &VANS 7.9% APR 12 Mos. w /10% DOWN 
9.9.,o APR 24 Mos. w/10% DOWN 
10.9 -Je APR 36 mos. w/10% DOWN 1Z.S Ve APR 48 mos. w/10% DOWN 
13.9 OJe APR 60 mos. w/10% DOWN 
USED CARS TRUCKS & VANS 
9.9 "lo APR 24 mos. 85-84's 
10.9 "lo APR 36 mos. 85-84's 
15.9 "lo APR 48 mos. 85-84's 
10.9 "lo APR 24 mos. 83-82's 11•9 "lo APR 36 mos. 83-82's 
14.9 .,o APR 36 mos. 81 & OlDER 
Loan rates are subject to change without notice. Once the loan is made however, the loan is a .fixed rate . 
• 

~ N~!.~~~:=~:.~~:~N 
Accent 
THEODORE'S: 
CARLA BARROS features writer 
The hottest spot on campus last Friday night was at the grand opening of Theodore's, the new undergraduate club located In LaFortune Student Center. In the words of General Manager, VInce Willis, the debut was "Awesome!" 
Greeted by a bannister lined with blue balloons bearing the Theodore's logo, one couldn't help but get Into the festive spirit of the evening. Music blared out of the sophisticated sound sys-tern, making the place pulse with energy. Refreshments, door prizes and a raffle were provided courtesy of Theodore's and their sponsors, Coca Cola and Muslcland. 
"We really put a lot of effort Into attracting students," said Jenny Dubrucq, a member of the Promotional Staff. 
Their hard work payed off. By 10 p.m., Theodore's was packed to capacity with students dancing on the enormous cherry and oak­wood dance floor and socializing around sleek black tables topped 


A smashing success 
with fresh baskets of popcorn. 
"We want Theodore's to be a 
classy place with an atmosphere 
where people will feel just as free 
to wear tennis shoes and jeans 

as they would dressed In coat 
and tie," said Willis. 
Many of the students arrived 
In Halloween costumes which 
added even more to the revelry. 

Dressed as a Q-tlp swab, Junior 
Brad Drawer said, "It's cool to 

have somewhere to go and hang 
out If you're under 21." 
The strong turnout of both 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
dents Impressed SMC Sopho­
more Stephanie Burke who said, 

"Theodore's Is something new 
that will definitely add to the so­
cial life on campus." 

Vince Willis and his energetic 
staff, dressed in official 

Theodore's rugby shirts, were 
highly visible throughout the 
evening to answer questions, 

take suggestions and make sure 
everyone was enjoying them­

selves. Willis stressed the impor­
tance of student feedback In de­
termining where Theodore's will 
be headed In the future. 

"We are so glad that people 
are having a good time tonight, 

and we hope that they will come 
back and continue to give us in­
put," said Willis. 
For those who have yet to ex­

perience the "diversion under 
the dome" provided by 
Theodore's, go check It out. As 
evidenced by the smashing suc­
cess of the grand opening, 
Theodore's is a fresh new addi­
tion to social life at Notre Dame, 

and as Willis said, "It Is only 
going to get better." 

MORE DREAMIN' 
In my last column I asked that Mike was beat up by1 a fat nightmare. In It, I went to get a anybody who happened to be kid In Hawaii as a child. He has gumball, and they were four reading to send me their dreams. not resolved this experience yet, cents. The price had gone upl I ,J meant dreams as In aspirations, and Is destined to dream about was so mad I didn't know what but I got a bunch of night dreams fat Hawaiian people forever. to do..." 
This dream has a lot of com­plicated symbolism in it. FreudKris Murphy 
tells us that when women dream about gumballs they are really dreaming about car parts. So
Altered 
Theresa Isn't really dreaming about gumballs; she's really 

Instead. This turned ·out to be more fun than I thought. Read on as we examine the minds of Notre Dame as they sleep, nap and pass out. Names have been changed, shortened and other­wise mutilated to protect those neurotics, I mean students, who were kind enough to share their innermost sick and twisted thoughts with me. 
Mike's Dream--"1 was boxing, bareflsted, with this big, fat Hawaiian guy. He was wearing bright yellow jams, and we were circling each other trying to get a good punch. I hit him with a left uppercut and knocked him out. Suddenly my high school basketball coach was there next to me. He said, 'Great job Mikel' Then I swear I ended up In a swimming pool. It was weird." 
To analyze this dream we must tlrst notice the violent Imagery present. Mike's dream opens In the boxing ring.• He Is fighting a large Hawaiian person, and this Is Important. Maybe Mike has something against Hawaiian people. Or maybe he has some­thing against fat people. Which could It be? I'd be willing to bet 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDReN: Amy died after the operation. Cliff broke down and blamed himself for starting to operate too late. Pal­mer told Rose he knew Natalie was up to something, but It was fun for him to see how far she'd go. Jeremy found a bloodied Erica In her wedding dress, lying unconscious on the floor. Com­ing: Palmer gets word about Adam's plans. 
ANOTHf:.R WORLD: Tensions rose between Rachael and Mac over her attention to Mitch. MJ was assigned to the vice squad where she met Letty, a hooker who remembered her from the past. The priest counseled Mary who decided to walk out on Reginald. Coming: Brittany mounts a counter-campaign against Peter. 
AS THr:. WORLD TURNS: Sierra was uncertain about Craig's feelings about her because of the time he spent with an 111Jured Iva. Margo and Tom realized their problems weren't over yet. Meg overplayed her hand. Coming: Sierra frets about Tanio and Craig. 
CAPITOL: OJ attempted to rna­nlpulate Meridith again. Trey remained confused by Kelly's at­tltudes about Scotty. Kelly seemed unable to realize how her body was reacting to her ad­dictions. Coming: Mark is torn by his feelings for Clarissa. 
DALLAS: Clayton Farlow warned Parmalee he'll fight to keep him off Southfork and away from Miss Ellie. Sue Ellen's cam­palgn to get even•with JR and put an end to his affair with Mandy took a surprising turn. Coming: April has surprises for Jack. 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES:' Kayla fretted over not hearing from Patch. Mike and Robin fantasized what their lives would be like, and then went to bed together. Melissa told Lars to stay away from her. Coming: Robin must decide about marrying Mike. 
FALCON CREST: Wainright's presence In the valley caused a further rift between Chase and Maggie. Chase was unaware that VIckie, too, was In danger. Lance and Melissa returned from their wedding. Coming: Angela reacts to Richard's newest proposition. 
Of:.NERAL HOSPITAL: Scorpio found the thugs who bombed An-na's house. Bobble and Jake dis­cussed marriage and adoption afterwards. Bobble considered using a surrogate parenting method Instead. Monica and Ed­ward vied for control of Alan's share of the family fortune. Com-
to dream about fun you'll get censored and you won't be tired or hung over when you wake up. 
·uanel's  dream--"!  had  a  
dream,  I  had  an  awesome  
dream."  

This Is not a good dream be­cause somebody else, namely Martin Luther King, dreamt It first, and Lionel is a big copy cat. Lionel also had a dream In which he was dancing on the ceiling and he had a great feeling, but I won't even go Into that. 
Matt's dream--"1 got drafted by the Celtics, but I got lost on the way to Boston and never re­ported for camp. I went to Florida instead and met this used car salesman on a beach. He sold me a '74 Nova. It broke down when I got back to Notre Dame, ing: Bobble and Jake decide about marriage. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Reva was con­fused about her feelings for Kyle. Alan's plans for the San Rlos mineral rights were forced Into an unexpected turn. Philip was unable to "snap out" of his feelings as thoroughly as Alan had hoped. Coming: _Reva surprises Kyle. 
KNOTS LANDINO: Phil hid out In a phone booth waiting for Greg to get him out of town. Peter had a victory party for his election. Abby celebrated the reopening of Lotus Point, Com­ing: Peter. has to face paying off to Abby and Sylvia. 
LOVING: Cabot offered to pay Nick to stop seeing Trlsha. Nick started giving Trlsha pills. Steve learned Harry was gambling again. Tests on Jack were still Incomplete. Jim and Shana realized Jane was behind Kelly's behavior. Coming: Lotty Is afraid of her mystery caller. 
ONr:. Llfr:. TO LIVr:.: Judith was shocked to learn Jamie was on drugs. Marla persuaded Allison to put on the Nlki dress and wig while she figured out a way to get the baby back to Clint and Vicki. Coming: Dorian suspects she's being set up by coke dealers. 
RYAN'S HOPr:.: Slobhan told Max she felt uneasy about Erik. Harlan made It look as IfJohn-0 had abandoned Lizzie. Maggie suspected Bess was carrying on with the butler. Della's gift per­fume turned out to be essence of skunk. Coming: Frank gets a lead on Harlan's background. 
SANTA BARBARA: Brick hired actors to help him expose evan­gellst Lily as a fraud. Keith threatened Gina with a dental drill If she didn't turn over the videotapes. Lionel was upset when Augusta didn't appear at Mlnz's blrthqay party. Coming: Gina plans a spedal revenge against Keith. 
SMRCH FOR TOMORROW: Quinn found a skeleton In the basement and decided to go to Ireland to find the truth behind the mystery. He had a bike acci­dent and woke to find Kat close to him. Kate suffered a stroke. Coming: Quinn Is puzzled about Kat's Intentions. 
THr:. YOUNG AND THE Rf:ST­LESS: Jack was undaunted by setbacks In his plans for Brad. Lauren and Paul faced a new crisis In their lives. Ashley had to make the decision she dreaded. Coming: Kay takes another step to gain control over Philip. 
1986, McNaught Syndicate 
teresting. I would say that Mike was always good In sports and this was the only way he could score big with the chicks. He should do well at Notre Dame 

where girls play football. Mike says, "It was weird" at the end of his dream account, because he was hammered when he told me about It and couldn't think of anything Intelligent to say. 
Theresa's dream--"1 had a dreaming about fan belts. I tlnd It very strange that a girl should be dreaming about fan belts, but I guess I'mjust an old-fashioned guy. So anyway, Theresa Is · worried about car parts when she should be worrying about her grades. You figure It out. 

Mary's dream--"1 was sitting In the middle of North Quad In my new bikini. No one else was around. Suddenly It started to to snow. and I got really cold. Fa­ther Ted came out of Grace and told me to put on a coat, or I would get fined for breaking some law In duLac. Then I was In McDonald's." 
Mary's a friend of mine, but I don't think I'm going to talk to her anymore because she's ob­viously really weird. This dream has a lot of sexual Imagery In It, but you'll probably make up your own sick Interpretations of it, so I'll leave that part up to you. The part about Father Ted Is very In­teresting. It shows that Notre Dame's mind control project has worked, and that there Is literally nothing the University cannot regulate. This Is actually good though, because anytime you try 
so I walked to class every day. Walt a minute. I walk to class anyway." 
Matt wants desperately to play pro basketball, but he knows how slim his chances are. Freud says that '74 Novas represent the dreamer's mother. In this light we realize that Matt went to Florida with his mom and traded her In for a case of Budweiser there. He feels bad now, but It's a little bit late, huh Matt? He goes to class every day to make him­self feel better, but It's not doing any good. Nice job Matt. 
Well, there you have it. Your friends and classmates are repressing a lot of weird stuff. My advice? Get a single before one of these psychos starts sleepwalking. 

The Observer Monday, November 3, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
Interhall football first-round playoffs saw Flanner down Morrissey, 6-0, and Howard beat Zahm by the same score. Flanner will now face Sorin, and Howard will meet Stan­ford in the semifinals. Details appear in tomorrow's Ob­server. -The Observer 
Tickets for Sunday's men's and women's Blue-Gold bas­ketball game are on sale now at the ACC. Prices are $2 for adults and $1 for students. Proceeds from the games will go to Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. The women's game begins at 6:30, followed by the men's game at 7:30. -The Observer 
I 
Observer Sports Writers will have a meeting at The Observer offices in LaFortune tomorrow at 8 p.m. The subject of this attendance-required meeting will be winter sports assaignments. -The Observer 
Interhall football equiptmentshould be returned to Gate 
9 of the Stadium according to the following schedule. 
Today: 5:30-Off Campus; 6-Grace; 6:30-Dillon; 7­Keenan; 7:30-Alumni; 8-Cavanaugh, 8:30-Holy Cross. Tomorrow: 5:30-Pangborn; 6-Fisher; 6:30-St. Ed's; 7-Carroll; 7 : 30-loser ofl :00 game on Sunday; 8: 00-loser of 2:00 game on Sunday. There is a late charge for a team per individual. -The -observer 
l 
The ND-SMC ski team will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 for anyone interested in try-outs or the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole. A $100 trip deposit will be collected at the meeting, which will be held in the LaFor­tune Little Theatre. For more information contact Kathy (4029) or Lisa (284-4415). -The Observer 
Body fat testing will take place tonight from 7 : 15 to 8: 30 in the NVA office. The test is free, and participants should wear shorts and will be tested on a first-come, first-serve basis. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in 
The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Stu­
dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 

Classifieds 

Quarterback Steve Beuerlein, shown here in action from last season, is now Notre Dame's 
ND sets new records in Navy win 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's 33-14 victory over Navy Saturday night probably won't go down in the annals of either school as anything more than just an­other score, but the game did figure prominently in rewriting the record books. 
Four players set new school records in the contest, three of whom were members of the Irish. 
• Quarterback Steve Beuer­lein's 244 yards of total offense (248 passing, -4 rushing) moved him past former Irish standout Joe Theismann in that cate­gory. :Seuerlein now has 5,553 yards of total offense, com­pared to Thiesmann's 5,432. e Beuerlein's 16 pass attempts made him Notre Dame's career leader in offensive at­tempts with 895, three ahead of former record-holder Allen Pinkett. Beuerlein is also Notre Dame's career leader in pass attempts (746), completions 
(414),  passing  yards  (5,613)  
and interceptions (42).  
e Outside  linebacker  Cedric  

Figaro's fumble recovery in the second quarter established a season-record six recoveries. The record was previously shared among six players, in­cluding current Irish safety Steve Lawrence. 
e John Carney's 22-yard field goal in the third quarter was the 40th of his career, breaking Dave Reeve's record of 39. 
• Navy quarterback Tom Byrne put in a brief appear­ance but made the most of it by setting two new Navy career marks. Byrne's seven comple­tions gave him 357 in his career, while his 21-yard touch­down pass to Mike Ray was the senior signal-callers' 27th scoring pass of his career. Both of those produced new Middie 
records.  
Several  streaks  were  also  
broken  during  Saturday's  
game.  

e Notre Dame's win was its first road win after eight pre­vious losses. The Irish last won on the road when they beat USC, 19-7, in 1984. 
·•Navy's third-quarter score was the first Notre Dame had allowed in seven quarters, and Byrne's touchdown pass was the first the Irish had allowed in 12 quarters. 

The Ob&erYer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Coilge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Ail classifleds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 
287-40112 

TYPINQIWOFIDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 277-11131. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008. 
JAZZ, NEW WAVE, CLASSICAL, THE BEST STAFF IN THE WORLD, WSND RULES. (•nd by the way -·re h8vtng 
• lund drive.) Nov 2-11. 

NOW doing typing In my home for atu­denla. Cell 232-1883. 
HEY CAPP MAJORS THE FOURTH CAPP DPMA MEETING WILL BE HELD TUE. NOV 4 AT 7:00pm IN 210 OSHAG 
THE SPEAKER WILL BE JUDITH RADCLIFF OF DATA PROCESSING CONSULTANTS INC. SUBJECT PREPARING A RESUME ALL CAPP STUDENTS ARE WELCOME 
Wordproceulng Cell LaVonne 287­
8024 

AIFI FORCE IS RETURNING TICKET BOOKS ON WED 5 NOV. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 5-7 PM. QUESTIONS CALL TOM £1588 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL TO IDENTIFY. 1412 
FOUND: CALCULATOR IN 224 CUB­HINO. CALL DAN AT 1154. 
FOUND: umbrella In 208 Cuahlng. C.U £1208 to claim. 
FOUND: Guy•• SWatch In D2 perklng lot on 10.zt.ee. Cell Merk at 4113 to cllllm. 
LOST-cLASS FIINGIIIIII J.A.B 87 BLUE STONE WITH GOLD N.D. S100.00 REWARD CALL JOE 307N101 
FOR RENT 

Two room luml•hed apt. prtvm en­trence utllltlu peld 288-011155 morn­Ing•. 
GUNta coming for u•m• need pgce to IIIey? Sllverbrook Bed-BrMktut In Nllee. Clelln, quiet, rM80n8ble. 8111­884-2323 evenlnge. 
2 room efficiency private entr8nce utllltlea peld 21111-011155 momlnga 
WANTED 
HOUSESITTING POSmON WANTED. Mlulonery MD homily needa houalng Jan-Mey. Experienced hou-lttera. Fief wall. 28N683 
want • ride, buater? The belgemoblle Ia on the road •gain, looking for FIIDEFIS or • RIDE to PURDUE the dey of NOVEMBER 8, 1888. For more In­formation, or ciNrer Information call Ger11e, 284-5125. 
FULL AND PART TIME WAITRESS' NEEDED. MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMmY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO MIOHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 48801 
COMPUTER STORE SEEKS FIEU· ABLE PART-TIME HELP. NEAR CAMPUS. 277·50211. 
FOR SALE 
For ule: Apple 1111, monochrome IICr., and drive. Good condition. $1150. Cell Slave 3288. 
FOFI SALE: 2 Round trip UNITED LIMO tlckela to O'HARA $45-value for $25. Call 232-8248. 
.TICKETS 
I need any PENN STATE tlx. C•ll Filch at 272-81123 .ld. ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX­513-881-8341 AFTER 5. 
YES, I KNOW WHAT YOU'RE THINK­ING...ANOTHEFI HAPLESS PLEA FOFI TICKETS Well ... you're right my al•lar 
•nd 4 (count 'em four) of her homele lrlenda •re coming !rom VILLANOVA to -what NO Ia like They would like to -NO lake on Penn State II you can help me help them heve a good time plellea call Bill ~487 
NEED 5 SMU GA'S AND ONE STUD TIK CALL MIKE 3211 OFI 3208 
I NEED 2 SMU TIXII CAROLYN-3831 
2 ND-SMU GA'a 4 SALE; CALL 512· 7311-2184 
I NEED SMU I PENN ST GA8.272-6308 
DESPERATELY ueklng Penn State tlcketa. I need GA'• •notlr atudent tlcketa. Help me out "you c:anl O.vld at 234-3337 
NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT £2174 
NEED 8 SMU TIX 
CALL JAY £2174 
NEED ONE SMU TICKET -BTUDENT OR GA -CALL 2985 
NEED SMU GA'S AND STUDENT TX PAUL·2384 
MEGA $BUCKS$ are •walling the per­eon who will Ull me 4 PENN ST GA'a lor my homily 80 I can come home lor Chrl•tma•l Cell Andy at 1243. 
NEED 8 PENN STATE GA'a CALL CHRIS AT 1713 
NEED 4 PENN ST GA'S CALL PAT 2034 
You wantem,lgot em. 1 atudent tlckat for SMU 8nd PENN STATEIIBHt offer. Jell 3178 
HELPII HELPII I need PENN STATE TIXS. Help me ahow Me nd Pe thet my bro gon to the wrong IIChool. PENN ST. TIXS for TODD at 1310 or 1308 
I'm 88klng you nlcely­Pinae ull me PSU tlx (atud. or GA) Cell Michelle B. et 4570 
BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS need atud. or GA tlx for SMUll 
Lat my backwooda buddlee -• gllll181 Cell O.ve at 3283 MOONSHINE to 811 who helpll 
Mickey Gorbachev'• boy Rickey I• coming down lor the SMU geme •nd neede • atudent ticket. In the neme of Detenla, Cllll JIICk at 1758. 
BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST ... PLEASE HELP ME... NEED 28 '112 TIX STUD OFI GA WILL DO...PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 01'11352. 

BIG BUCKS FOFI 3 PENN STATE TIX -cALL TJ -283-18111 
I NEED 1 PENN ST GA. WILL PAY BIG S$$1 CALL TIM 3314. 
SMU I PENN ST. GA'• FOR SALE 277· 
0218 
NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL JANICE 272-8818 
CASH lor 2-3 GA or Stud Tlx for Pen­nSt 21551 
DESPERATELY need SMU tlx-c•ll Kevln-1802 
I need 2 Penn S-GA'a Kelly 284­44155 
Need 4 SMU tlx. Will P•Y top $ I Call £3487 
AIRLINE TICKET 1111 FOR SALE 1111 Bring friend In for SMU garneill 50% off anywhere on Jat Amerlc:a by 11114 -C8thy 283-3229 leave meauge 
HAVE 4 SMU GAS NEED 4 PENN ST GAS CALL CHIEF £1838 
NEED 2 SMU OA'S CALL 2288 
I NEED 2 SMU GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 2742 
My brother and lrlenda want to -NOva. Penn Slate. I need 4 GA'S Cell Pat x3858 
NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL JIM 288-3482 
I DESPERATELY NEED 4-8 USC TICK· ETSIIF I CAN'T GET THEM, I'M DEAD I PLEASE HELPI CALL CHRIS X2542 
NEED PENN G.A.'S-CHFIIS 1738 
NEED 1 SMU STUDENT TIX CALL JOE X1888 
Pair of SMU GAa for ••Ia. BMt offer by 11PM mon. night. 277-8285 
PERSONALS 
JA, NOVEMBER 
"Er tuerchtm •lch und -nn er zu femandem ugte, 'Eal•t keeltergewor· den,' erwertete er Troat. 
'Je, November,' ugte der •ndere.. 
-vlele achoene Grunu, eure IIebe Sylvl• 
Ja, November •.. 
LOST: TWO SHRUNKEN HEADS Hallo-n night, 80rnewhere on Flape Road. Flat-alzecl blond Swede •nd brunette of lncan dncent tied to­gether by • lllundry atrlng. Rellca !rom the Amezon River Beeln, of lllatlng value to their owner. IF FOUND, call TICO x2287 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOFI, CAFIFIY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Thenk You St. Jude 
DESPERATE TEXAN WILL DO AL­MOST ANYTHING FOFI 2 SMU TICK­ETS. -STU OFI GA-CALL CAROLYN· 3831 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS STU· DENTS II O.C. FORMAL TIX ON SALE WED., 1115 I THURS., 11AI IN LaFORTUNE (1at FLOOR) FROM 3:30 TO 5pm $1CK:OUPLE ANY QUESTIONS? CALL RACE 234­0982 
The delandere of the backaNI (•nd the van acrlbe) preunt: VANQUOTES (BY THE VAN MILON SINGERS) "I don't went a hug, I fu•t w•ntto drive float" "Ghoet atorlea, not nlghtm•ru" "I •m not afnlld to Nl" "Actu•lly, Bill, I heve no recollection of the event AT ALL" "So by thl• time lwaa hevtng phy•lc:al problema 818ylng 
PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 808 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOFI SS OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 10.5:30. 233­
2342 . 
Ja, November .•. 
BEAUXBEAUXBEAUXBEAUXAFITS BEAUX· BEAUXAFITSBEAUXAFITSARTS AFITSAFITSAFIETSBALLARTSBALL BALL BALL BALLIIIIIIIIIIII 11111111111111111111111111 
Looking lor • rul Bleclc Celebration? TEDDY'S PALACE OF PLEASURE IS PROUD TO PRESENT: 
THE PALL-BEARERS LIVE -OFI DEAD? -Laet Friday "Dancing corp-aprlng from the cof­fin In the mldat of the d•nce floor" An encore perform•nce will be given only II by popular demend. 
ATTN. OFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS! 
O.C. NEWSLETTER NOW AVAILABLE IN LaFOFITUNE(OBUD DESK) 
R.E.M FANS We've got rare tunea and they're youra for the price of one 81bum. Hear "Femme Fmle" "Bendwegon" "White Tomedo" "Volca of Herold" and more. Plua many favorite• LIVE. Moat atudlo quality on • TDK u-80 tape. Only 57 ahopplng daya till Chrlatm•al Cell the Hindu Love OOda at 2485 or 2550 •nd get them before we run out. 
JUNIOFISIIJUNIORSIIJUNIOFISII 
JUNIOFISIIJUNIORSIIJUNIOFISII 
JUNIOR NITE AT MACRI'S WEDNESDAY, NOV. 5, 11-lpm -BE THEFIEIIIII $2.88 SANDWICH I SOUP SPECIAL -cOUPONS AT DOORII 
JUNIOFISIIJUNIOFISIIJUNIOFISII 
JUNIORSIIJUNIORSIIJUNIOFISII 
••***"*****"LAURA CHAVEZ.."****­Thl• wild chocolate rneaa Ia FINALLY 21 and on the prowl! Come out tonight and buy her • ahol at her home: the Commonal H•ve a great and meuy 21at, Laurall 
Hey Margaret Devlnel Here'a to the age of conaant ... H•PPY 21atlll 
From your tavortt• aophomore, 
Marilyn 
Are you running a DID camp•lgn 8nd need the help of • powerful and expe­rienced Meglc UHr? " ao call 4278 Iller 5 pm. 
HEY CAPP MAJORS NOTE THE DATE OF THE CAPPIOPMA MEETING IS THE 4th NOT THE 7th 
Glrla, Glrla, Glrla: the men, the myth, the legend -Joe "Rambo" Engler -member of the Notre D•me welghtllftlng club •nd mr of the Stanford Halllootbell tum (not to mention hi• 3.4 GPA). He'a now AVAILABLE 80 give him • call at 2081. 
In cau you forgot, my birthday w.. yeaterday. I'll be accepting late c:ard•, c:a•h, ,.,...,., cllecke till midnight tonight. Your blotHiuddy, BIG PAT. 
KAREN LESE: I LOVED YOU BUT YOU USED ME. I'M LEAVING. SOFIFIY BABE. MICHAEL STIPE 
SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SAFIG SARG SAFIG? 

------~---­
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1986-page 9 

The Observell'David Fischer Florida International. The tie gave Notre Dame the . championship of the FlU Tournament. Details appear at right. 
Soccer team clinches FlU Tourney crown 
Special to The Observer his sixth shutout of the 
season. The Irish, however, 

The Notre Dame soccer were held scoreless for the team won the Florida Inter­third time this season. national University tourna­Before this weekend, ment in Miami, Fla., over Notre Dame's Tiger the weekend. McCourt had scored in every 
The Irish beat Navy, 2-1, Irish win or tie this season. Saturday and tied FlU Sun­That streak was broken, day, 0-0. The Irish were though, as McCourt was shut declared champions of the out in the scoring depart­three-team tournament by ment. virtue of Navy's 1-0 victory over FlU Friday. The Sunblazers, a Division 
Notre Dame received a II power who had defeated little help from Navy in Seattle Pacific (defending recording the victory. Mid­Division II Champions) ear­shipmen defenseman Tony lier in the season, saw their Fernandez headed the ball record fall to 10-9-1. into his own goal with 3: 10 The FlU title was the remaining in the first half to second tournament won by give the Irish a 2-llead. Notre Dame this season. In 
Navy took the lead at 8:47 late September the Irish on a 25-yard blast, but stop­claimed the Wright State In­per John Guignon evened the vitational title, the team's score 19 seconds later on a first title in its history. penalty kick. Notre Dame, now 11-6-2, 
The Irish only needed a faces Western Michigan in a win or a tie against FlU to home contest this Wednes­take the tournament. The day, then will host top­Sunblazers outshot the Irish, ranked Evansville this Sun­19-9, but keeper Hugh Bres-· day in the team's final week lin's seven saves gave him of action. 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
as the Irish defeated the War­
riors, 15-9, 15-4, 15-1. 
"We played really well 
against Marquette," said 
junior setter Kathy Morin. "We 
didn't play down to their level, 
but played our game. It didn't 
seem to come together until the 
second game but we played 

PAR KAY 
Cracker Barrel 

Miracle 
Whip 

Velveeta 

PHILADJLPHIA 

real well in the third." 
The three-game sweep of Marquette, Notre Dame's 13th sweep of the season, allowed Lambert to substitute freely and improve his bench strength as the team heads into the final month of play. 
Lambert noted the strong play of junior Kathy Baker, sophomore Mary Kay Waller and freshman Kathy Cunnin­gham in the the weekend vic­tories. Waller and Cunnin­gham, Irish standouts throughout the season, lead the team in kill percentage with .419 and .348 marks respective­ly. 

The Irish next take to the ACC Pit court Wednesday night in a 7 p.m. match against Loyola. The. match will be the first of four for Notre Dame in the week. The Irish also will face Dayton, Northwestern and Pittsburgh over the weekend. 
TRY OUR BRAND OF BUSINESS FOR THE GREAT TASTE OF SUCCESS 
Kraft lnc.ls a company like no other company In the world. On every grocer's shelves, In every home and kitchen, you'll find Kraft's quality In Kraft's products. 
We're a competitor like no other competitor In business. We've taken marketing to a science. And that means we've taken management Information systems to heart. 
Ityou're looking lor a career environment where management Information systems Is a perfect blend of creativity and technology, look no further than Kraft. 
This Is an environment In which you can grow and advance according to your achievements. We have a commllriientto training which will-keep your skills current throu(jhout your career; an outstanding compensation package; and-can olfei a future with a company at the very top of the food'lndustry. 
CAREERS IN APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT 
We will be on campus to talk with graduates who are Interested In entry level applications programming positions within a state-of-the-art IBM environment. You should have an above average gradepolnt, emphasis In management Information systems and strong communication skills. Business experience or courses In accounting, finance production, sales, marketing, etc. are valued. Coursework or experience with COBOL Is a plus. 
lnfQrmatiQn exchange will be held In the Alumni RQQm Qf the MQrrls Inn NQvember 5, 7 • 9 p.m. All MIS and CAPP students welcQme. 
Kratt Is an $8 billion corporation numbered among the Fortune 50. Check with the University Placement Office for further Information. 
Equol Opportunity Employer 


Farley 
continuedfrom page 12 
Farley took the ball over on its own 11-yard line and promptly went 89 yards for a touchdown. Farley quarter­back sensation Marilu Almeida hit Tammy Goodwin for the seven-yard touchdown pass. The conversion failed, however, and Farley led 6-0. 
Breen-Phillips came right back and marched down to the Farley 11-yard line where quarterback Amy Treder con­nected with Burke in the end zone to tie it. A succesful two­point conversion then put B.P. ahead 8-6. 
At this point, however, the powerful Farley offense took over. Almeida dropped b!iCk to pass at her own 48-yard line and hit Colleen Donovan on the right side who promptly 
lateralled  to  Suzanne  
Schwartz.  Schwartz  took  off  
down  the  right  sideline  and  

crossed the end line unscathed 
to complete a 52-yard touch­down pass and put Farley ahead 12-8. 
On the first play of the second half, then, Almeida teamed up with Schwartz again for a 67­yard touchdown pass. The con­versiol) f~Hled again, but it didn't matter as the game ended with the 18-8 Farley mar­gin. 
The B.P. coaches had words of praise for their team despite the loss. 
"They really played their hearts out, " said coach Dan Deboer. "They have nothing to be ashamed of." 
Yet while B.P. certainly had nothing to be ashamed of, Far­ley had plenty to celebrate about. On his way to a post­game party, one Farley coach revealed that the Farley team had rallied this year around the slogan, " Eat me I'm a danish." 
The relevance of this line may be elusive, but one can't argue with the results. 


MARRIAGE PREPARATION RETREATS will be offered in the Spring Semester: JANUARY 30-31 MARCH 6-7 

APRIL 3-4 

'l(eservations for tfiese 'R._etreats must 6e made no fater t/i.an: '1Jecem6er 10 -January 'l(etreat !february 6 -:Mardi ~reat :Mardi 3 -~ ~reat 
Each Retreat is limited to 18 couples For more information call University Ministry 239-5242 
The Observer Monday, November 3, 1986-page 10 · 
before fizzling at the eight on "They didn't play too much couldn't move from there, and directing an eight-play, 77-yard fourth down. double coverage on me the Irish took over when Misch drive, capped off with a 27-yard
Middies 

Kicker John Carney then tonight," said Brown. "That overthrew Troy Saunders on touchdown toss to flanker Mi­continuedfrompage 12 lined up for a 25-yard field goal was a little surprising. That's fourth down. chael Ray with 7 :59 left to play. try but freshman Tim Grun­one thing about the academies Three plays and a punt later, Up 28-0, Holtz did what most hard's snap sailed over holder --they've got those big egos and Navy had the ball again at the 
s.turdey'a Gem•

coaches outside of Miami do, Steve Beuerlein, who stuff --and they think they can Irish 40. Misch hit tailback Notre Dame 7 21 3 2 -33 Navy 0 0 7 7 • 14
substitute freely. And although recovered for a 25-yard loss. play with you so they're going Robert Hollinger for a 39-yard 
Scoring

Holtz did place the blame for An incomplete Navy pass at­to line up and try to do u:· pick up. Hollinger ended the NO ·Williams 2 pass from Beuerteln (Carney kick) NO ·Brown 77 pass from Beuertein (Carney kick)
the poor second half on his own tempt, however, and a Wally The Irish would score twice drive on the next play by plung­
ND ·Taylor 11 rush (Carney kick)shoulders, he did have a few Kleine sack forced another more in the half on Pernell ing through the middle to put ND -Taylor 1 rush (Camsy kick) 
words for the second team as Navy punt. The Irish took over Taylor runs of one and 11 Navy on the board with 56 ND -FG Carney 19 
Navy -Hollinger 1 rush (Fundoukos kick) well. at their own 43 and marched to yards. seconds left in the quarter. ND -Safety (Misch Intentions grounding In end zone)
"I didn't do a very good job a first-and-goal at the seven. The Irish started the second The Irish continued their 
Navy ·Ray 21 pass from Byrne (Fundoukos kick) 

for our squad in the second Runs by Tim Brown and Mark half where they left off in the lackluster play and after six 
ND Nevy

half, and that's indeed unfor­Green then brought the Irish to first by marching 53 yards to plays, Dan Sorenson punted 
First downs 22 14 tunate. That's as poor as we third-and-goal at the two, the Navy four. But the Irish from his own 47 to Navy's 17-Rushing attempts 62 23 Net Yards Rushing 232 -7
have looked. where Navy's Robert Platz stalled, and called on John Car­yard line. The Irish defense 
Net Yards Passing 248 218"Yet our second team's got stopped Anthony Johnson for no ney who responded with a 19-picked up some of the scoring Passes camp-attempted 16·22 19-39 Had Intercepted 0 0
to come in and play well. Our gain. This time, Holtz wouldn't yard field goal. slack when on third down, 
Total Net Yards 480 211

second team has got to come settle for the field goal. From there both teams Cedric Figaro chased Misch Fumbles-lost 1-1 2· 1 in and play, and we didn't get On fourth-and-goal, Beuer­fizzled on a pair of possessions into the end zone where Misch Penalties-yards 7-63 3·15 
Punts-average 6-32.5 8·35.2 

an awful lot of productivity out lein dropped back and fired before Navy got the ball on threw the ball away for inten­lndlvlduel L.udera of our second unit. It was a win toward Joel Williams in the Notre Dame's 46 with 5:22 left tional grounding and a safety 
RUSHING ·Notre Dame: Johnson 14-50; Ward 2-40; Jefferson 7-39; Green 6-30; Navy: Hollingerand I don't ever want to get to back of the end zone. Navy's in the third quarter. After six for the Irish. 13·17; Klrl< 4-8; Wallace 1·2; Misch 4·(·34); PASSING -Notre Dame: Beuerteln 16-22.0, 248; 
the point where a win isn't a Enoch Blazis got a hand on the plays, including three passes When Navy finally did get the 
Navy: Misch 12·27.0, 130; Byrns 7·12·0, 88;good thing. We just have to pass, but deflected it right into from Robert Misch for first ball back again, Head Coach RECEIVING ·Notre Dame: Brown 7-184; Jackson 3·37; Navy: Ray 7-63; Saunders 4-61; Hollinger 3­
have everybody step up and the hands of a wide-open Wil­downs, the Midshipmen had Gary Tranquill inserted take their share of the load and liams. first-and-goal at Notre Dame's former starting quarterback 45; Attendance -61,335(c) go from there." After a third punt from the nine. The Middies, though, Bill Byrne who responded by
If the Irish hadn't started so Midshipmen, the Irish moved well, the second half might not from their own six to the 23, have been an issue at all. After when Beuerlein hit Brown at halting the Midshipmen on midfield. After shaking one their opening possession, the tackler, Brown was on a one­Irish took over on their own 39-way, 77-yard trip to the end 
yard line and marched to a zone. Carney's point-after Do you desire to live and to first-and-goal on the Navy 10 made it 14-0. 
explore further in your life the ideals of Christian service and Sign Up! community as a lay person? 
The Observer Is now accepting applications 
If so, we invite you to consider 
for positions In the Production Department. 
Holy Cross Associates Program
• No experience necessary 
in Chile. Application Deadline: 
• 
We will train you in layout and design techniques Nov. 7, 1986 

• 
Chance to advance More Into Contact: 


Get involved Mary Ann Roemer Jane Pitz 
Sign up now In The Observer's Lafortune office. 

com\ng\n
NOVEMBER...................... 
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
6

5 
8

7 
Casablanca 
Abrams &Anderson
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 
Theodore's 8 p.m. 

William Minter 
Lecture 
Washington Hall 8:00p.m. 
13

12 
14 
15 

The Shining 
The Wallets 
7:00,9:15,11:30 
Theodore's 9:30 

19 
20 

21 
22 

The Natural 
Rocky IV 
-
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 

7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 
' 

All events sponsored by SAB 
I 
I 
I ~ 
~ 
I 
I 
I l I i I I 
! I 
I 
! 
~ 
I I I I 
-

Today_________
M-onda-..y,No-vembe-r3.._, 11
1986....-...-pag--.e 


Bloom County Berke Breathed 
THIS IS INCR£PI6LE. LAST NOIJ IN AJAIL IN Til£ WW< IIJA5 WOHRI£I)OVfR~ HIWL£ OF NICARAGUA ON A STUPID fiiY5/CS TE5T. PHONY SPY CIIARGES. 
0 

Campus 
4:15p.m. CRIMINAL JUSTICE SERIES LECTURE "Personal Reflections on the Criminal System," by Rev. Andrew Skot­nicki, Chaplain, Cook County Jail, Chicago, and parish priest at Santa Clara's Church, Chicago. Stapleton Lounge 
4:30p.m. PHYSICS LECTURE "A Proof and Discussion of Hegerfeldt's Theorem," by Joseph Godfrey, Notre Dame Depart­ment of Physics. Room 327 Nieuwland Hall 
4:30 
p.m. MATHEMATICAL COLLO­QUIUM "Minimal Surfaces and the Topol­ogy of Positively Curved Manifolds," by Prof. Mario Micalles, University of Okla­homa. Room 226 CCMB 

4:30 
p.m. REILLY LECTURE IN CHEMISTRY "A Molecular Approach to Surface Science,'' by Richard E. Smalley, Hackerman Prof. of Chern., Rice Univ., Room 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 


7:00p.m. MONDAY NIGHT FILM SE­RIES I "Alice in the Cities," 1973, BW, 110 minutes, Wim Wenders, West Ger­many, Annen berg Auditorium 
\\'1 
EH, 6RINGO! 
WE IIAVEA 
N£WC£LL­
MATC FOR 
'~ 
7:30 p.m. LADIES OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S LECTURE "The Score After the Score: Foreign Study Programs Over More Than Twenty Years," by Charles Parnell, Professor Emeritus. Notre Dame Memorial Library Lounge 
9:00 p.m. DEBATE SERIES "Gun Con­trol," by two three-member teams, spon­sored by Grace Hall Social Concerns Group, Grace Hall Pit · 
9:00p.m. MONDAY NIGHT FILM SE­RIES II "The Fury," 1978, color, 115 min­utes, Brian de Palma, USA, Annenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Oven Fried Chicken Linguille with Italian Meat Sauce Cheese Cutlet with Marinara Sauce Grilled Bologna Sandwich 
Saint Mary's 
Cajun Chicken Stirfry Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce Spinich Lasagna 

The Observer Is always IQQklng fqr talent. If yqu have any, cqme tq qur qfflces and start wqrklng qn yqur newspaper. 
ACROSS 1 Gen. Bradley 5 Religious 
female repre­
sentation 10 Soil: pref. 14 Rake 15 Office worker 16 Light carriage 17 Menu 19 Fictional 
plantation 20 Arabian gazelles 21 Showing no change 23 Ten-year 
periods 25 Gape 26 Organization 28 Castle and 
Dunne 31 High-tech beam 34 Blockheads 36 Relative of hurrah 
37 Bible book 38 Store events 39 Tommy's gun 
40 Wrath 41 Alcohol 
burners 42 Charger 43 Worship 45 Pollster Elmo 47 Ferber and 
Millay 49 As __._ a rock 53 Trembled 56 Polluted 57 Melville work 58 Neck feature 60 Throw down 
the gauntlet 61 Membranes 62 Kind of sch. 63 Change for 
a five 64 Indians 65 Scout units 
DOWN 
1 " ... nothing either good -" ("Hamlet") 
2 Wavy fabric design 
Far Side Gary Larson 

\Nood shop apathy 
Classroom afflictions 


11/3/86 

3 Of a royal 
court 4 Liberates 5 Compensate fo; 6 Discharge 
from service 7 Oh, woe! 8 Phooey! 9 Compacts 
10 Apparel 
11 Musical embellishment 12-avis 13 Ring stone 18 More ancient 22 Gobs 24 Afr. region 27-bear 29 Robt.­30 Transmit 42 Ala. city 52 Appears 31 Resting place 44 Taro roots 53 Knucklehead 32 Field measure 46 Balances 54 Mid-East 33 Ship loader 48 Ceremonial gulf 35 Mex. coins dinner 55 Surrealist 38 Type of ester 50 Two-fold painter 39 Removed 51 Harold or 59 Murray of 41 Coastal flyer Richard old films 
Student Activities Board presents ... 
''With All Deliberate 
William Minter 
Delay: The West and 
specialist on South Africa  South Africa  
With an introduction by Dr. Peter Walshe .  Sanctions''  
Wednesday, Nov. 5th 8:00pm  Wash in  ton Hall  



SRorts 
Irish use strong 1st half to swamp Navy, 33-14 

The Notre Dame defense, led by cornerback Troy Wilson (12) and linebacker Cedric Figaro (48), made it a long night for the Naval 
Volleyball team notches 20th win 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team extended its winning streak to five consecutive games this weekend with on­the-road victories over Nor­thern Illinois and Marquette. 
With the victories the Irish reached the 20-win plateau for only the second time in their seven-year history and for the 


Seniors Juniors 

Soph./Law/Grad students Freshmen 
first time ever under third-year omore Whitney Shewman and 
head coach Art Lambert. senior Karen Sapp. The Irish lost the first game "I'm· really pleased with of the weekend in their match those two," he said. "They did at Northern Illinois, losing the a great job for us defensively." game 5-15. This was the only -defeat Notre Dame would suf­Marquette, Notre Dame's op­fer for for the rest of the ponent on Saturday, had previ­weekend, however, as it rallied ously fallen victim to the Irish back to win the next three at the ACC on October 3, in a games 15-6, 15-9, 15-9. 15-2, 15-6, 15-2 rout. Saturday's Lambert expressed pleasure game proved to be no different 
with his team's comeback vic­

see IRISH, page 9
tory and with the play of soph­

lnterhall champions
Farley Hall does it again 
By JOHN MONYAK Sports Writer 
The Farley Hall women's in­terhall football team has gotten into a nasty habit over the last few years. 
They have gotten into the habit of winning the women's interhall football crown every year and leaving their oppo­nents to scramble for second place. 
Today Tuesday Wednesday Thursday 

Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their appli­cation, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC between 
1:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. on the day specified for your class. Ticket prices are $60 for lower arena and $45 for upper arena seating. 
Student basketball ticket applications have been sent out to al1 students with a campus or local address. Any student who has not yet received his or her application, or whose preprinted ap­plication contains an error in class status, should go to the Ticket Office on the second floor of the ACC on a day prior to the one designated for his or her class. 
Students should note that th~ season ticket package does not include the opening game of the Coca-Cola NIT against Western 
Breen-Phillips quarterback Amy Treder gets 
Kentucky on Nov. 21. Tickets for that game will go on sale at a 
ready to lead the offense into the Farley defense 
later date. 

in last night's interhall championship game at 
ND raises mark to 3-4 despite sloppy 2nd half 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
BALTIMORE-This wasn't meant to be Navy's night. It was foretold before the game even started. The Midshipman Brigade, numbering 3,000 and riding 70 busses, got lost in the traffic surrounding Bal­timore's Memorial Stadium. 
It really never got better for the Midshipmen. 
Notre Dame put together a potent attack in the first half and a lackluster performance in the second to dump Navy, 33-14, extending its winning streak against the academy to 23 straight games. 
But the disparity between the play of the Irish in the first half and their play in the second was, well, amazing. Consider this, the Irish were ahead, 28-0, at halftime. They had 16 first downs, 314 yards of total of­fense and had not had to punt once. 
At the same time, the Mid­shipmen had a grand total of one first down and 23 yards of offense. On its seven posses­sions, Navy punted six times and fumbled a seventh. 
But by the end of the game, Navy had accumulated 13 more first downs to Notre Dame's six and had rolled up 188 yards to Notre Dame's 166. If you were keeping score by halves, Navy won the second one, 14-5. 
All of this left Irish head coach Lou Holtz less happy overall with the win. 
"I was quite surprised how well we played the first half on all sides of the ball," Holtz said afterward. "I was equally surprised by how poorly we played in the second half. It was two different halves. I give Navy an awful lot of credit. 
"Maybe we learned another thing today in that as we went through we just did not keep the intensity and the concentra­tion in the second half. That's my fault more than anything else. We just didn't really take it to them in the second half as well as we did in the first. 
"(We) got down there on the three-yard line (at the opening of the second half) and didn't get any points out of it," con­tinued Holtz. "The next thing you· know we're backed up in­side our 10 and things like that. Then you're just trying to finish the football game. You just want to get it over. 
"I'm proud of our football team, don't get me wrong, but I just know that our players didn't feel very good about the way we played the second half." 
see MIDDIES, page 10 

Farley showed no signs of breaking this habit last night as it downed Breen-Phillips 18­8 in the women's interhall foot­ball championship game at Cartier Field. It was Farley's third consecutive interhall championship and its fourth in five years. 
Farley's latest championship didn't come without a struggle, however. Breen-Phillips came out strong in the first series and drove down to the Farley five­yard line, much of the yardage coming on a 21-yard breakaway run by Caroline Burke which put B.P. within striking distance. 
A costly penalty, however, 
, put B.P. back on the 13-yard line and allowed Farley's defense to regroup and stop 
B.P. on fourth down. 
see FARLEY, page 9 






