see co-o-o-ol page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 14 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
War against drug abuse, sayReagans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Presi<1ent Reagan--joined by his wife Nancy, in declaring "another war for our freedom"--pledged ag­gressive government action against drug abuse yesterday but said the key to its success will be the courage of individual Americans. 
"I will announce tomorrow a series of new proposals for a drug-free America," the presi­dent said in a joint address with the first lady as they sat together 011 a love seat in their upstairs living room in the White House. 
Reagan didn't disclose details of the proposals but said they would bring federal spending on combating illegal drugs to $3 bil­lion. 
"Your government will con­timtc to act agrcssivcly, but noth­ing would be more effective than for Americans simply to quit using illegal drugs," the presi­dent said. 
"I'm mindful that drugs arc a umstant tcmpt<ttion for mil­lions," Reagan said. "l'lcasc re­member this when your courage is tested: you arc Americans.... No one--ever--has the right to destroy your dreams and shatter your life." 
Mrs. Reagan spoke especially of the effect of drugs on young people, saying, 'Tor the sake of our children, I implore each of you to be unyielding and in­llcxiblc in your opposition to drugs." 
"Won't you join us ill this great 
see Reaaan, paae 4 

Explosion rips South Korea airport, blame placed on North Koreans 

Associated Press 
St:OUL, South Korea -A pow­erful explosive device blasted the crowded terminal building at Seoul's Kimpo International Air­port yesterday, killing five Koreans and it~juring 19, police said. 
l'olicc said 13 victims were seriously hurt. Local news media accounts said as many as 35 people were iqjurcd in the air ter­minal, the main arrival point for the Asian Games set to open next Saturday. 
A statement issued by Kang Min-Chang, director of South Korea's national police, pointed an accusing finger at communist North Korea, charging North Korea with planning "impure, barbaric and wicked schemes aimed at disrupting the success­ful hosting of the games." 
The statement said all the vic­tims were Korean and that initial investigation lound that "an ex­plosive device" went off outside the terminal. 
It said the midaflcrnoon explo­
sion occurred in or ncar a steel trasl1 can outside the terminal's ground-floor waiting area. 
Witnesses said the blast knocked about 50 people off their feet and sent scores screaming and running away in panic. 
Hrokcn glass and debris cov­ered the sidewalk outside and the information counters and furniture inside the terminal. Shoes, scraps of clothing, bloodstains and bits of nesh spotted the area. 
Security measures, always in­tense in South Korea, have been increased in recent weeks with the approach of the games. About I00,000 people in the na­tional police, plus other paramilitary forces and special units have been put on alert. 
A heavy concentration of se­curity forces was stationed at the airport. 
South Korea has feared that North Korea or others might try to mar the games and this na­tion's image as a host. North Korea refused to take part in the 
games, saying they were one 
more event aimed at perpetuat­
ing the division of the Korean 
peninsula. 
The peninsula has been divided into communist North and anti-communist South since the end of World War II. The 
f950-53 Korean War deepened the division, and a demilitarized zone separates the two sides. The police director said the ex­plosion was similar to two ex­plosions in 1983--at Taegu, South Korea, and in Rangoon, Burma. 
One blast damaged tl)e Amer­ican Cultural Center in the south­ern city ofTaegu, killing one per­son and injuring four people. The blast in the Burmese capital in October 1983 killed 17 visiting South Korean officials. The ex­plos,ions were blamed on North Korean saboteurs. 
The regional games this year are attracting more than usual interest because Seoul is sched­uled to host the 1988 Summer Olympics. 
Police raid parties, issue 34 citations 
By MARK PANKOWSKI state excise police issued I07 News Editor citations at parties on Marx Street and Douglas and Ivy roads. 
Police raided two student par­In response to the number of ties and a local tavern early Sat­citations issued to students in urday morning, issuing 34 cita­the last two weeks, Student tions as part of the "Operation Senator John Gardiner said he SUDS" effort. has arranged For a legal forum 
Five law-enforcement agencies on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the teamed up to raid parties on Library Auditorium. Madison Street east of Michigan "All students who have gotten Street and Warrick Street near in trouble in one way or another Burdette Street as well as The should attend to learn of their Commons, 826 N. Eddy St., said options," said Gardiner. Indiana State Police Dispatcher "In addition, students should Cherie Teghtmeyer. attend to learn of their rights 
Twenty-eight citations were when confronted by law­issued for consumption of alco­enforcement officers," he said. hol by a minor, said Teghtmeyer. "These range from how the offi­
The other six were issued for cer should treat them to whether sale of alcoholic beverages to a or not one has to take a breat­minor, altering a driver's license halizer test." and the presence of minors in a Legal Services directors Mario tavern, she said. Zepponi and Glen Guanousky 
The raids were part of "Opera­will study the situation and pres­tion Stop-Underage-Drinking­ent their findings at the Forum, nd-Sales," said Teghtmeyer. he said. A question-and-answer They involved 13 officers of the session will Follow. Indiana State Police, Indiana Gardiner said he initiated the State Excise Police, South Bend forum because of the numerous Police Department Roseland questions concerning the raids Police Department and St. or the last two weeks. Joseph County Sheriff's Depart­Some students have said that ment. the police did not read them their 
Suspects' names and a break­rights, while others have ques­down of the number of citations tioned whether officers acted at each location were not avail­legally when they entered a able yesterday. house without a warrant, he said. 
Rumors of raids on Saturday Gardiner added that Legal Ser­night could not be confirmed by vices received several inquiries state police. last week From students who had 
The raids came one week after received citations. 
17 killed, 300 injured in Greece earthquake 
Associated Press elsewhere, including two men 
crushed in a car when a build­

KALAMATA, Greece -Res­ing toppled over. Neither cuers pulled seven bodies police nor hospitals have yesterday From the rubble of issued an official list of those an apartment building killed. toppled by a powerful Angeliki Papadopoulos, earthquake in this southern wife of a Greek air Force offi­port city, raising the toll to at cer, survived I 7 hours buried least I 7 people killed and in a 25-Foot heap of concrete more than 300 injured. rubble From the collapsed 
A defense Ministry spokes­five-story apartment building man said more than I00 near the waterfront. She was people were hospitalized after llowri to Athens with leg injur­Saturday's quake, and 200 ies: more were treated For cuts "The cement is pressing on and puncture wounds. Rescue my head, I can't move," she crews pulled out 31 people shouted repeatedly to rescue alive From damaged build­workers drilling down to reach ings, but more bodies were her. believed buried under rubble, The bodies of her husband said the spokesman, who George, a fighter pilot and demanded anonymity. her two young children were 
The quake, measuring 6.2 Found hours later. on the Richter scale, rolled Also among the seven dead through the mountainous in the building were three Messenia region, 180 miles teen-agers in a second-lloor southwest of Athens, at 8:24 apartment. 
p.m. Saturday. "I left them in my living 
The tremor destroyed all room with the TV, my son, my but three of 120 homes in the nephew and my niece. They're village of Elaiochori, I 2 miles lost" Fruit merchant Vassilis east of Kalamata. The bodies Barkas, weeping openly, told of three villagers were found The Associated Press. beneath the rubble, the min­"When I got back, the town istry said. looked like it had been 
Seven bodies were Found bombed," he said. 
; 

---~------------------­
In Brief 
Sal Stracquadaini was the lucky entrant among I, 288 New Yorkers competing in a contest for a free weekend in Omaha. Mayor Mike Boyle drew Stracquadaini's winning card. Strac­quadaini who says he has never been west of Dayton, Ohio 
5aid he is looking forward to the trip. "From what I under­stand, we're in for a surprise," he said after learning he won the trip Thursday. The contest was the idea of the Greater Omaha Convention and Visitors Bureau, which wanted New Yorkers to think about Omaha as a place to visit. -Associated 
Press ·• 

Trekkies shouldn't worry about the Starship Enterprise, burned up in the last "Star Trek" movie. Anything can happen in space, says James Doohan, who plays Scotty in the popular television series and movies. Doohan discussed the death and subsequent resurredion of Mr. Spack in the Star Trek films. "In space, you can do anything." he said. "People talk about the Enterprise being burned up. Wait and see," he said, smiling like an engineer who'd just taken a starship from impulse power to Warp Factor Eight. The upcoming "Star Trek IV: the Voyage Home" will be released in December. Associated Press 
Journalist former ballet dancer and presidential son Ron Reagan has taken to the firing range to perfect his handgun techniques in a seminar that also included the author of the "Rambo" books and movies. Reagan and eight other men were enrolled in a G. Gordon Liddy Academy seminar, in­tended for police and security specialists, at the Counterr Group Academy in Red Hook, about I00 miles north of New York City. Reagan was sent to the $2,700, three-week program by Playboy Ma~azine, for which he is writing an article. 
Of Interest 
"Tell Someone" will be the title of tonight's sexual violence seminar sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. The talk on sexual harassment will be held at 6:45 p.m. in LeMan Hall's Stapleton Lounge. -The Observer 
"Operation Homecoming." a film dealing with American POWs in Vietnam, will be shown tonight at 7 in the Center for Social Concerns. This film is part of POW-MIA Awareness Week, which culminates on Friday, National POW-MIA Day. ­The Observer. 
The Natural Family Planning Program of St. Joseph County, Inc. will offer "An Introduction to Natural Family Planning" tonight at 7 in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. A slide show describing the methods will be followed by a question-and­answer period. The presentation is free and open to anyone interested. The program also will offer a clinic series to any engaged or married couples, starting next Monday. To reg­ister, call 237-7401 or 277-8807.-The Observer 
Theodore's will have an organizational meeting for all in­terested students tomorrow night at 7 in Lafortune's base­ment. -The Observer 
The fifth annual Futurist Awards Competition, sponsored by Honeywell, Inc., will offer 10 winners $3,000 each and the chance to work for the company next summer. College students must imagine the year 20 I I and write essays about the technological developents they foresee. The contest is open to all full-time students at any accredited college in the United States. Students are asked to predict developments in one ofsix technological areas: electronic communications. energy, aerospace, computer science, manufacturing automation, or office automation. A second essay must ad­dress the societal impact of the technological predictions. Each essay must be no longer than I, 500 words. Students can receive contest rules by writing Futurist Rules, Honeywell Telemarketing Center, Honeywell Plaza MN 12-4164, Min­neapolis, MM 55408, or calling toll free 1-800-328-51 I I, ext. 
158 I . -The Observer 

Weather 
If the "luck" of the Irish is 
the same today as it was for Saturday's game, then you better put on your raincoats-­there is a 50 percent chance of rain predicted today. There will be partial clearing tonight with the low near 50. Tomor­row will be partly sunny and 

cool with the high 65 to 70. ­Associated Press 


Design Editor . ........ Kathy Huston Features Copy Editor .......... Lisa Typesetters .......... Chris Reardon Features Layout .... Melinda Murphy News Editor ........ Chris Bednarski Typists ............... Colleen Foy Copy Editor . ........... Chris Julka ND Day Editor . ...... Laurine Megna Sports Copy Editor ..... Marty Burns Photographer .......... Jim Carroll Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Eric Bergamo 
lbe Obeerver ( l'SPS ~99 2-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. TheObeerver is published by the students ofthe l'niversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
lbe Obeerver is a member of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
~sr~·~. 

Football weekend beginssenior's sentimental journey 
There is something about the first home football game of a senior year that brings with it a prema­ture sense of nostalgia. 
Of course, as a member of the Class of '87 I have experienced ambivalent feelings toward my new status as a senior from the moment I checked off the "!-expect-to-graduate-in-May" box at registration and picked up my Career and Place­ment brochures. Graduation is no longer a com­fortable long-term goal but a reality that is both exciting and frightening. and up to now I wasn't sure how I really fell about it. 
But it was this first home football game of my last season of truly "home" games that gave my vague impressions of Senior Year some sort of order. 
Perhaps it was my first sight of the visitors con­verging on the campus Friday -alumni, fans and prospective students -that started my sentimen­talizing. 
In the past, giving directions to lost strangers and being pointed out as a sort of"student" exhibit evoked only a sort of smugness: I could experi­ence every day what wistful alumni struggle to recapture in one frenzied weekend. Last Friday, however, my reaction to the annual pilgrimage of ND faithful to South Bend was that of an ines­capable realization that next year, I too would be a visitor to a place which for over four years has an idea, but already I've fmm<l myself thinking been home. ahead to the "lasts" which arc approaching all too 


Or perhaps it was finding my seat in the senior quickly. section for the first time which seemed symbolic. The last home football game. The last SYR. The (English mqjors are always finding symbolism in last final. It is a measure of how acute this sense the most mundane things.) Although scats on the of "last" is that even the last dining hall meal 40-yard line offer a much better view than my assumes a ritualistic importance. freshman-year endzone vantage point did, there A friend who graduated last year once told me was no longer the knowledge that students are it was ironic that Notre Dame places so much on my right. The alumni who nanked me and importance on orienting freshmen to college -­other seniors emphasized the realization that our with its fatherly Dean Hofman ami pamphlets years as ND students are ending and we will soon which explain everything from "Which Dorm is be thrust into "the real world." Home" to how many hours you should spend 
This realization in turn produces the sense of studying per day --yet offers no concrete dircc­urgency which characterizes senior year. One look tions lorour transition to the working world. There at a packed Senior Bar on a Wednesday night or. arc no neat packages tied up in our diplomas a taste of the intensity with which seniors tailgated which will tell us what to expect after graduation. and cheered on Saturday demonstrates that most But that in itself is a measure of how far we seniors have at least an idea that time is inexorable have come in four short years here. We no longer and for us is running out. We feel old at the ripe need to have our lives mapped out by others; age of 21. we've grown enough to handle that task --enor­
1 remember (another phrase which seniors use mous as it is --ourselves. The future, although with alarming frequency) last year when the then-uncertain, is exciting and promising. seniors warned me that life this year would For now, however, I want to savor the present degenerate into a maudlin series of "lasts." I was and enjoy every moment of my senior year. After secure enough then as a junior to ridicule such all, it's the last senior year I'll have. 

~~uu~um~um.m~N 
~\'<' 

. ~#t; ,e~ Europe!
~'(\\0 
Students-Youth Fare 
ROME $556 PARIS $456 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
FRANKFURT $496 
MUNICH $496
"AI~' yo11 OK to dl'it•el" 
"Witafil afi•ll' IH.•el·.~t· 
AMSTERDAM $456 
"Did yo11 ltat•e lex• 11111clt fo d1'i11k!" "1"111!Jf'l.1i•l'fl,it/ille." 
All plus $8.00 tax 

"All' yo11 i11 all!/·~lta}JI' to d1·i!'et" 
Round 
Trip
"/"t•e uet'l'l'.fi•/1 /wffe1:" 
From Chicago
"I fltiuk you't•e ltml a.fi•lt' fcx1 111auy." "Yim kiddi11, I ca11 dl"ive 
~~~ 

ll'iflt 111,1/ eyes elrmed." 
"Yim've lta<i tiXIIIIIIdt to driuk, let me drive." "Nobody drive.~ lll.tfCarbllt 111e." 
232-7995 SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL

DRINKING AND DRIVING 
525 N. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND, IN 

CAN KIL A FRIENDSHIR 
U.S. o.pariment of Tramportation ~ 
The Observer  Monday, September 15, 1986-page 2  


~onday,SeptemberlS, 1986 -page3

The Observer 
Israeli prime minister seeks support for plan 
Associated Press 
Tt:L AVIV, Israel -Prime Mini­ster Shimon Peres flew to Wash­ington yesterday to meet Presi­dent Reagan ami to try to gain 
U.S. backing for the accord be­tween Israel and Egypt calling for an international conference on the Middle East. 
"A primary purpose in my trip will be to work out with the United States a peace policy for the fu­ture," Peres told reporters at lkn-Gurion International Air­port. "The time has come to spell out what arc the needed peace initiatives." 
Peres. scheduled to meet Reagan today, also has arranged meetings with Vice President George l~ush and Sec~etary of State George P. Shultz. 
The Israeli Embassy in Wash­ington in addition is trying to ar­range a meeting between Peres and Soviet rorcign Minister t:duard Shevardnadze, govern­ment officials said. 
Shevardnadze will be in the United States attending the United Nations General Assem­bly. Asked about any meeting. Peres told reporters he did not know if Shevardnadze had agreed. 
Peres' wccklong trip will in­clude stops in New York and Ot­tawa. 
Agreat pizza is getdng harder and harder to find. 
lilt ben It Ia. Great laity cnaal LUI· bate Loco out or your way Lo t1Dd u.s. doua uuce. Real cbeele, 11'1 ~ frelh. we co out ot our way Lo make It won.b Topplnp. topplap, Lopplap. even step you take BecaUJe you m.lgbt ~ 
The prime minister's visit comes a month before he is due to swap jobs with Foreign Mini­ster Yitzhak Shamir of the con­servative Likud bloc under a power-sharing pact between Likud and the left-of-center Labor Party. 
Last week, Peres and Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak held a two-day summit in Alexandria, Egypt. They agreed Friday to form a preparatory committee ­for convening an international peace conference. 
A U.S. government official. who demanded anonymity, said in Washington after the summit that the United States was cool to any plan that would include the Soviet Union in an interna­tional forum. Likud members of Peres' govcrnmerit' also voiced opposition to an international meeting during yesterday's reg­ular Cabinet meeting. 
But Peres said at the airport: "I don't sec any argument be­tween us and America on this topic." 
Peres is seeking an interna­tional forum in an effort to recruit Jordan into the peace process. Jordan has made it clear it will not join peace talks without the support of the superpowers and all the parties involved in the Arab-Israeli conflict. including the Palestinians. 
'Packed pep rally 
Head Football Coach Lou Holtz whipped the Irish fans into a frenzied mood at Fiday's Pep Rally in the ACC. Thousands of students, alumni and other fans screamed and shouted 

Aquino seeks U.S. economic aid 
Associated Press 
MANILA. Philippines -Presi­dent Corazon Aquino, heartened by reconciliation meetings with her foes and loyalty pledges from her rivals, will leav~ for the United States today in search of economic aid and political sup­port for her government. 
The nine-day visit will be her first to the United States since 
52920 U.S. 31 N 277-5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------­
Sunday -Monday Coupon Special Receive a medium single Ingredient original style pizza and an order of cheese bread for $5.50 Good for Carry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
DellveryW"ttl11:00pm weekdays ~ Expires 9/29/86 2:00amonfltdayandSaturday ~~'::-.. 
L----------------------------------­
she became president during a February revolution that over­threw President Ferdinand E. Marcos. 
Mrs. Aquino said in a weekend interview with Philippine televi­sion that she will try to become friends with President Reagan during her visit. 
She said her main goal will be "that President Reagan and I are able to have a personal friendship so that relations be­tween the two countries will not only proceed well but proceed very well and at a much faster rate." 
She is also expected to tell the administration that her policy of · seeking reconciliation with com­munist and Moslem rebels offers the best hope for restoring stability, despite criticism from factions in her own government. 
Affentlon Chemical Engineers Procter and Gamble 
will be recruiting for Product Development and Manufacturing Management Opportunities Monday, Sept. 15 7-8 pm In the Alumni Room of the Morris Inn 
A one-on-one question and answer period for Product Development opportunities will be held Tuesday, Sept.161n the Engineering lounge. 
DUN & BRADSTREET ~ Corporation 
will present_an informal presentation 
Wed., Sept. 24 7pm-9pm 

Upper Lounge of University Club 
All students invited All majors and undergrads 
Reception to follow Refreshments to be served 
Ohserver/Joc Vitacco 

for Notre Dame and A.B.C.. which profiled the pep rally during their telecast of the game. 
Mrs. Aquino, 53, will also seek more economic aid, liberal credit terms and private American in­vestment to revive an economy burdened by $26 billion in debts. A 15-member delegation will ac­company her, including minis­ters of finance, industry, trade, agriculture and planning. 
The  visit  is  also  aimed  at  
capitalizing  on  the  prestige  
gained  by  her  People  Power  
Revolution,  which  ended  20  

years of Marcos rule, and at shoring up her reputation against rivals at home. 
Mrs. Aquino said she will press for easing restrictions on import­ing Philippine products, particu­larly sugar and textiles; greater 
U.S. aid, and easier terms for repaying loans, which have drained up to half the country's export earnings. 
Monday, ~pt~ber IS, 1986-page4

The Observer 
gether in defiance against this

Reagan 
cancer of drugs."

Federal judge faces impeachment 
Reagan began the joint ad­

continued/rom page 1 
dress with introductory remarks 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Federal Judge Harry E. Claiborne, who as a private lawyer represented Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland and Howard Hughes, goes on trial in the Senate this week in the first impeachment case since 1936. 
A nine-member prosecution team from the House will try to persuade senators that the Nevadajudge, a federal prisoner, should be removed from office because of his 1984 conviction for tax evasion. 
An unprecedented committee of I 2 senators is to . hear evidence today in the historic Senate Caucus Room, whefe the late Sen. Sam Ervin helped·un­ravel the mysteries of Watergate in 1973 hearings. 
On the 13 previous occasions since I 799 the entire Senate handled every phase of an im­peachment case. 
But faced with a busy pre­election schedule, the Senate delegated the committee to hear evidence and then turn the tran­script over to the full chamber for further proceedings and a final ruling. 
A seat has been reserved for Claiborne, 69, who is collecting his $78,700 annual salary while serving a two-year prison term at Maxwell Air Force Base, Ala. Since judges are appointed for life, he can only be removed by impeachment. 
The trial will highlight a con­gressional week in which Philip­pine President Corazon Aquino 
Correction 

The quote of Cathy Anne Reynolds, former president of RASTA, was incorrectly re­ported in last Friday's issue in an article on page I because of a production error. Her full statement was: "I would have 
been  glad  if Security would  
have  informed  me.  I would  
have  made  an  announce­ 

ment. Maybe that would have shook some people up." 

FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"AI'e you OK to d1·it•e!" "Whatx afi'll' beel'x!" 
"Did ,111111 hat•e f<XIIIIIICh to 1/i·iuk!" "1'111 pn.fel'flyfiue." 
"An' you iu auy xltape to 1b·itv'!" "f't'l' IWt'l'l'.fi'/t bf!fte1:" 

"/ tltiuk you'ce /tad a fell' tlxlmauy." "Yim kiddiu, I cau dn've witIt Iliff eyex c/o.~ed." 
"Yim've had tiXIIIIIIC/t todriuk, let 111e drive." "Noblld!J drivex Iliff car but me." 
u.s. o.,.a.-of..__ !I 

addresses  a  joint  meeting  of  
Congress.  That  will  occur  
Thursday,  about  the  time  the  

Senate may be considering across-the-board spending cuts under the Gramm-Rudman law. Those reductions, totaling about $20 billion, could occur if Congress fails to bring the deficit below $,154 billion. 
Before the Senate turns to the budget, however, it must finish debate and vote on the confirma­tion of William H. Rehnquist as chief justice and Antonin Scalia as an associatejustice of the Su­preme Court. Democrats have waged a campaign to defeat Rehnquist, but his confirmation by a wide margin is expected. 
The Claiborne trial will capture its share of drama as well as his­tory, since the defendant is a namboyant judge known for his sharp criticism of the FBI and federal crime-strike-force attor­
neys. 
The degree of excitement at the nationally televised trial may hinge on the impeachment com­mittee's ruling on preliminary motions by the House and Claiborne attorney Oscar Good­
man. Goodman has asked for per­mission to "detail a conscious 
frame-up" by "cunning and ... devious men," including the very 
prosecutors  and  agents  he  
criticized.  
The  ·  House  prosecutors,  

headed by Judiciary Committee Chairman Peter W. Rodino, Jr., have asked that the Senate limit evidence to the dry details of Claiborne's conviction for falsify­ing his federal income tax returns. Ajury found he failed to report a total of $1 06,651 in in­come from legal fees. 
Goodman wants to delve into the background of Joe Conforte, a Nevada brothel owner who was convicted of tax evasion, ned to Brazil, and was persuaded to return to testify against Claiborne. In exchange, the gov­ernment sought--and obtained-­a reduction of his 20-year sen­tence. 
The defense lawyer also has petitioned to present testimony on "the most shocking allegation to surface in the vendetta"--an accusation that the government burglarized the judge's home to illegally obtain trial evidence. 
The House has asked that the full Senate not hold a full-blown triaL but simply rule Claiborne is guilty based on evidence of his conviction. 
new nauonal crusade?" she asked. 
The speech climaxed a week of focus by both the administra­tion and Congress on the drug menace. 
The president said his proposals to Congress, where the House has already passed a drug-abuse bill, "will toughen our laws against drug criminals, encourage more research and treatment and insure that illegal drugs will not be tolerated in our schools or in our work places." 
But he added, "Let us not for­get that in America, people solve problems, and no national crusade has ever succeeded without human investment. Win­ning the crusade against drugs will not be achieved by just throwing money at the problem." 
"What an insult it will be to what we are--and whence we came--if we do not rise up to-
Thanks to you... it works... forALLOFUS 
in which he said, "Drugs" are menacing our society ... They're killing our children." 
The first ladyjoined in, saying, "Today there is a drug and alco­hol abuse epidemic in this country, and no one is safe from it--not you, not me, and certainly not our children, because this epidemic has their names written on it." 
"We can help by using every opportunity to force the issue of not using drugs to the point of making others uncomfortable-­even if that means making our­selves unpopular," she said. 
Of drug dealers, Mrs. Reagan said, "For every door we close, they open a new door to·death." 
"Now we go on to the next step­-making a full commitment that we will not tolerate drugs anywhere, anytime, any place," she said. 
•
Unlliadway 


The Observer Monday, September IS, 1986-page 5 
U.S. delegates to Soviet meeting drop out to protest spy accusations 
Associated Press 
RIGA, U.S.S.R. -Top U.S. delegates to a conference on su­perpower relations have dropped out to protest the spying charges against American reporter Nicholas Daniloff, or­ganizers said yesterday. 
They said discussions at the conference, which begins today at the Baltic Sea resort town of Jurmala, likely would focus on Daniloff's arrest. 
"If we're going to be realistic, if this conference is to discuss the relationship between the United States and the Soviet Union, the issue of Daniloff is very relevant." said Thomas Be­cker. vice president of the Chautauqua Institute, which is overseeing U.S. participation in the conference. 
About 270 Americans came to the Soviet Union for the confer­ence. ·including private citizens, reporters and American enter­tainers, including jazz saxop­honist Grover Washington Jr. The conference is to be a follow­up to a May I985 conference held at the Chautauqua Institute in upstate New York. 
Among those who dropped out at the last minute were Richard Perle, the assistant secretary of defense; Alan Keyes, assistant secretary of state; former U.N. Ambassador Jeane Kirkpatrick; former National Security Adviser Robert Macfarlane and Sen. William Bradley, D-N.J. 
None left the United States for the Soviet Union. 
Becker said several private citizens also canceled at the last minute. 
He said Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mac­Farlane and Keyes decided not to come because of the KGB's Aug. 30 arrest of Daniloff, aMos­cow correspondent for U.S. News & Worlcl Report weekly maga­zine. 
He said Macfarlane and Mrs. 

23 companies attending Cost: $5.00 
u 

Reservation due Monday, Sept. 15 Turn Into Sue Boy l'!:!,~g 

INTRO-PSYCH STUDENTSI 
Step Beyond Tradi.twnat 8tud.yi.nq 
Learn, f'evi.ew, a.nd. i.ncn~ase yo"f' te.st-tak.i.nq ca.pabU.i.ties wi.th the 
~OR~/LOfTUS:P8YCHOLOay 
'\.nten:~«;ti.ve Comp"teri.zed R.evi.ew 
ONLY $12.95
0 

Softwore ovoiloble in mony other titles. Check your texts; nforo free cotolog 
MAIL TO: SOFT PRODUCTIONS. 100 CENTER 
MISHAWAKA. IN 46544 or call 219-255-3911 
MASTERCARD __VISA EXP. DATE--­CHARGE•: _______________ 
SIGNATURE:-----------::-:---­ENCLOSED CHECK--APPLE IBM __ 
NAME:----------------------------------------------------ADORfSS: ------------­ClTV: --------------STf\TE: Zl P: -----­

Kirkpatrick were protesting what they saw as Soviet attempts to equate Daniloff's case with that of Gennadiy Zakharov, a Soviet 
U.N. employee arrested in New York on espionage charges. 
Both men were released from jail Friday in the custody of their respective embassies, but remain charged. The United States has called for Daniloff to be allowed to return home and has ruled out a swap for Zak­harov. 
John Wallach, conference director and international editor for Hearst newspapers organiza­tion, quoted Perle as saying he wasn't attending because he had to stay in Washington to prepare for Friday's meeting between Secretary of State George P. shultz and Soviet Foreign Mini­ster Eduard A. Shevardnadze. 
"But what was said to me and what the real reason might be might be quite different" Wal­lach said. 
Accused U.S. reporter Daniloff suffered ''mental torture'' in prison 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -In his first news conference since he was freed from a Soviet prison, Nicholas Daniloff spoke yesterday of suf­fering "mental torture" during 1 3 days of interrogation and warned reporter colleagues they also were potential KGB targets. 
He spoke in a room in the U.S. Commercial Office packed with Western reporters, whom he of­len called by their first names during an informal, 40-minute question-and-answer session. 
The mood alternated from serious to light as Daniloff des­cribed his fears as he Jay in his cell, the informal courtesy code among prisoners, and the give­and-take with his KGB inter­rogator over the wording of questions. 
Daniloff, nanked by his wife, Ruth, and by Henry Trewhitt, deputy managing editor of U.S. News & World Report magazine, emphasized he was never phys­ically abused during his stay at Lefortovo Prison. 
But Daniloffsaid the loneliness and the 30 hours of interrogation took their toll. 
"The end result is that when you go back to your cell, you can't get your mind off of the problem, the misfortune which has occurred to you," he said. 
"And frankly, I have to tell you, it's mental torture, mental tor­ture." 
The 5 I -year-old reporter, who says he was framed by the KGB in revenge for the FBI arrest of a Soviet on spy charges in New York, also had a sober warning for fellow journalists: 
"All ofyou are potential targets for this sort of action, and it's deplorable. One has to ask: is this an acceptable way of behav­ing. snapping up people off the street in order to gain political leverage in some other case?" 
Daniloff appeared at the con­ference wearing light brown cor­duroy pants, a maroon velvet sportsjacket a light colored shirt and a white and red paisley tie that he said his wife had made for his birthday. 
His voice was strained at times, but he mostly was articulate and matter-of-fact and even joked a little about his experiences. He was released Friday in the cus­tody of the U.S. embassy. 
Daniloff described in detail his arrest by eight KGB agents on Aug. 30 after a meeting with a 
Soviet acquaintance called Misha, a nickname for Mikhail A. Luzin. He said the two were to say goodbye because Daniloff was being transferred by the U.S. News & World Report news weekly magazine. 
Daniloff gave Luzin some American novels as a farewell gift. Daniloff said that to his surprise, Luzin gave him a pack­age that Luzin said contained newspaper clippings. The en­velope contained secret maps and military photographs. 
Asked whether he had second thoughts about taking the pack­et, Daniloff replied: 
"Well, you know, once you have been sandbagged by eight men on a street totally un­suspecting. put into a van, your hands pinned behind your back, your hands in handcuffs, of course you wonder--why the hell did I do that?" 

Suicide remains a problem among youth 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Teen-age suicide, alcohol and drug abuse remain major problems among the na­tion's youth, according to a sur­vey of U.S. high school students that was released yesterday. 
In the survey of nearly 2,000 high-achieving students, 46 per­cent said they knew a young per­son who had committed suicide or tried to commit suicide and 3 I percent said they've con­templated it themselves. 
The survey also found that 77 percent of the students said al­cohol use is a regular part of many high schoolers' 'weekend activities and 35 percent said drug use is common among some students before the begin­ning of the school day. 
The students surveyed were selected from among the 450,000 high achievers featured in the current edition of "Who's Who Among American High School Students," a book that annually recognizes top juniors and seniors. 
The Who's Who organization, 
based in the Chicago suburb of 
Lake Forest. conducts a yearly 
survey, asking the nation's top 
students for their attitudes on 
education, politics and sex. 
The 1986 survey question­naire was mailed to 5, 000 stu­dents in the spring and returned by I, 943 students. Those sur­veyed were juniors or seniors in the 1985-86 school year with no less than a B academic average. 
In response to questions about teen-age suicide, the students were asked to list the three major causes: 86 percent said a feeling of personal worthlessness; 8 I percent said a feeling of isolation and loneliness, and 72 percent said pressure to achieve. 
Thirty-five percent said "a cer­tain group of students regularly use drugs before school," and 33 percent said drugs are a reg­ular part of many students weekend socializing. 
But 81 percent said they had never tried drugs such as mari­juana or cocaine, and 32 percent said they had never tried alcohol. 
Other major findings include: 
62 percent said students should be required to maintain a C average or better in all classes to be eligible to partici­pate in extracurricular activities. 
23 percent said they have had sexual intercourse, but 63 per­cent said sex is not expected in a steady romance. 
Twenty percent said they felt pressured to have sex. But males and females gave different reasons: 88 percent of the females said the pressure came from their boyfriend; 72 percent of the males said the pressure came from peers. 
73 percent believe prayer should not be required in public schools but should be allowed. 
If the 1988 presidential elec­tion were held now, 49 percent said they would vote Republican, 25 percent Democratic and 16 percent independent. Three per­cent said they would not vote, and the rest did not answer. 


Monday, September 15, 1986 -page 6

The Observer 
j Michael Jackson stars 


Smiling Irish eyes 
The members of the Notre Dame cheer­leading team entertained the fans in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. Their efforts helped 
5,000 Poles welcome freed activists 
keep the crowd excited, providing for a bois­terous time in the student section. 
Associated Press 
WARSAW, Poland-Lech Walesa joined thousands of Solidarity supporters yesterday at a Roman Catholic Mass in Gdansk in an 
emotional  welcome  for  more  
than  a  dozen  freed  union  ac­ 
tivists.  

More than 5,000 worshipers filled St. Brygida's Church in the Baltic port, applauding loudly and waving their fingers in V-for­victory signs as the former poli­tical prisoners were introduced, witnesses said. 
The government says 225 po­litical prisoners will be free by 
Nation's schools to receive drug handbook 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. De­partment of Education joined in President Reagan's war on drugs yesterday with a handbook on how to drive the drug problem out of the nation's schools. 
It has printed I million copies of "Schools Without Drugs," and the handbook already is in the mail to every public and private school and every school super­intendent in the country. The de­partment is also setting up 20 toll-free phone lines that people can call starting today for free copies of the guide. 
"We have to get tough, and we have to do it now." said Educa­tion Secretary William J. Bennett. He called usc of drugs, including alcohol, "the most serious threat to the health and well-being of our children... 
The problem cuts across class lines and geographic bound­aries. Bennett said in his intro­duction. "In some schools. drug deals at lunch are common. In others, intruders regularly enter the building to sell drugs to stu­dents. Even schools with strict drug policies on paper do not always enforce them effectively," he said. 
The handbook "tells how drug use starts. how it progresses, and how it can be identified. Most important. it tells how it can be stopped," he said. 
First Lady Nancy Reagan, who was joining the president yester­
today, when the amnesty ex­Among the ex-prisoners who ·pires. The amnesty does not joined Walcsa were two former cover those accused of ter­Gdansk Solidarity underground rorism, espionage or betraying leaders, Bogdan Borusewicz and state secrets. Bogdan Lis, and dissident his­
All of the dozen or more torian Adam Miclmik, a senior prominent opposition activists. union adviser. including Solidarity under­Boruscwicz. in his first public ground leader Zbigniew Bujak, appearance since lle went into are now free. hiding immediately after the 
Walesa, former chairman of December I98 I military crack­
the outlawed Solidarity free trade down that suppressed Solidarity. union movement, urged sup­declared the union was still alive. porters to be patient until he could meet with recently freed The ex-prisoners were given senior union activists to discuss flowers as the crowd serenaded how to respond to the govern­them with the song "Sto Lat" 
ment's gesture. (May He Live a Hundred Years). 
day night in a televised address against drugs, said in a foreword that. "schools must protect chil­dren from the presence ofdrugs, and nurture values that help them reject drugs." 
"Only if our schools are free from drugs can we protect our children and insure that they can get on with the enterprise of learning." she wrote. 
The 78-page booklet is aimed at educators. parents and stu­dents themselves, laying out basic facts about drugs and pro­viding a detailed explanation of educators' rights to search stu­dents for drugs and suspend or expel offenders. 
It also lists telltale signs of drug use: bloodshot eyes, pos­session of large amounts of money and "distinct downward turns in student's grades." 
Did you sign up 
to write for the News Department at Student Activities Night? 
Then you11 want to be at the first meeting for new writers. Meet at 7 p.m. Tuesday at The Observer's new offices on the third floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Questions? Call Mark Pankowski or Tripp Baltz at 239-5313. 
The Education Department spent $440,000 to print the handbook 44 cents per copy and it will spend up to 30 cents more to mail each topy to people who request one. 
Among its recommendations: 
A comprehensive drug pre­vention curriculum that starts in kindergarten and runs through grade 12; 
Clear rules and strong en­forcement of them; 
involvement of local police in all aspects of drug prevention. including education and enforce­ment. 
The number to call for copies of the handbook is: I -800-624­0 I 00. The local Washington, D.C., number is 659-4854. People can also write for copies to: Schools Without Drugs, Pueblo, Colo. 81 009. 
in Disney short movie 
Associated Press 
ANAI1~:1M, Calif. -After a two­year absence, Michael Jackson has returned to the entertain­ment scene in Disney's musical space adventure "Captain EO." called the most ballyhooed and expensive sllorl movie ever made. 
He sings. He dances. He moon-walks. He commands the motley crew of a spaceship and battles evil demons with laser blasts from his fingertips. 
Jackson's fans will have to travel to Disneyland or Walt Dis­ney World's t:pcot Center in Florida to sec it. "Captain t:O" will be shown in "no other place in the universe." say Disney offi­cials. 
The 17-minute Tomorrowland attraction was previewed Satur­day as part of an NIK television special to be broadcast Sept. 20, the date "Captain t:O" opens in both parks. Another preview was held Friday in Florida. 
Co-star Anjclica Huston, exec­utive producer George Lucas and director Francis Coppola ap­peared for the ribbon cutting. 
Jackson didn't show up. but he 
Thanks to you ... it works ... 


Where the need is . . . there we will be. 
As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 

HOL V CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
sent sisters Janet and Latoya and brothers Jackie and Marion. Jane Fonda, John Ritter. ~:lliott Gould and other celebrities came wit11 their children. 
"Captain EO" is an assault on the senses with 3-D. lasers, ex­plosions and smoke. t:stimates of its cost range from $ 15 million to $20 million. 
"Captain t:O" is a· I0-minute space adventure followed by a seven-minute roch. video. Jack­son commands a spaceship with a crew out of "Star Wars·· --a small green elephant. a tiny winged monkey, shaggy-l>ccn Siamese twins and two clani'Y robots wllo can turn into rock instruments. 
Captain EO blunders onto a colorless planet ruled by Su­preme Leader, a claw-fingered Harpy played by Miss Huston. 
Just when Captain t:O and l1is mates seem doomed, lle begins singing "We are here to change tile world." 
He magically transforms fierce warriors into dancers and leads them through a high-energy number choreographed by Jet­trey Hornaday of "A Chorus Line." He even converts the Su­preme Leader into a queenly beauty in a rainbow gown. 


Accent 
Monday, September 15, 1986-page7 

Madonna, Father Ted, and ethanol 
Kris Murphy 
Altered 


We open on a huge library. Sitting in the center or the room, surrounded by books and stuffy looking things covered with dust. is Alistar Cooke. He is wearing orange bathing trunks and he has a blue party hat on his head. He speaks. (Begin audio with fake British accent:} 
"Good evening and welcome to Poetry Corner. Tonight we will be featuring a rather obscure American poet. Mr. Kris Murphy. Mr. Murphy lives and works in Indiana. His hobbies are weightlifting and rich women. Actually 'obscure' is a bad way to describe him. 'Totally unknown' is much better. His poems are...well. .. to be quite frank they stink, but this is his column and he can do what he wants. On that note I will introduce the first of tonight's poems by Mr. Murphy. It is called 'Madonna Come and Be My Wife.' " 
_A, 
MADONNA COME AND BE MY WIFE 
Madonna come and be my wife clump Sean Penn and share my life We'll eat tacos we'll listen to your songs I forgive you for Playboy I forgive all your wrongs No more weird earrings no more bad movies our life will be joyous far out ami groovy 
I can be your lucky star you can live to tell ami I would only preach at you when snowballs freeze in hell So whacldya say? you crazy chick come live with me or I'll get sick 
OH WHERE ART THOU OH FATHER TED? 
Oh where art thou oh Father Ted? In Japan while I'm in bed ami then in Spain when I awake back to China when tests I take Around the world most every day always, always you're away Oh Father won't you please come home back {rom England, France and Rome Come back here by plane or bus have a beer, hang out with us we'll rap awhile ami play some ball then we'll sit 'round inside the hall ami talk 'bout chicks ancl baseball too Oh Father, you, we hardly knew. . . 
ODE TO ETHANOL 
Ethanol, ethanol wonderful smell Etl1at10l, ethanol you make my life hell Ethanol, ethanol you smell real sweet Ethanol, ethanol like Steve Buerlein's feet Ethanol, ethanol you come in a flood Ethanol, ethanol make me cough blood Ethanol, ethanol please go away Ethanol, ethanol get lost today 
Cut back to Alistar. He is eating a Milky Way bar and watching 
MTV in the library. He is startled. "Well, that was just a small example or the drivel that Kris Murphy passes orr for poetry. Personally, it made me sick. I hope it made you gag, too. Tune in next week when Gerry Faust will read his own poetry collection entitled 'All ~oads Lead To Akron.' " 
C0-0-0-0L 
ANN-MARIE WALKER 
features writer 
Wine coolers are becoming in­creasingly popular these days around the country. The con­sumer is sudddenly being bom­barded with a wide variety or these "beer substitutes," but how popular are they on the Notre Dame campus? 
Are students downing these concoctions or fruit juices and white wine or are they shying away from them? What brands or wine coolers are they drink­ing? Are men drinking them as well, or do they consider wine coolers to be a drink for women...in other words: "Do real men drink coolers?" 
A survey was recently con­ducted at random to answer these mind-boggling questions concerning the alcohol preferences of Notre Dame stu­dents: 
Female students were asked, "If you were given the choice between a beer and a wine cooler, which would you choose?" In response, only 28 percent or the girls surveyed chose beer, whereas an over­whelming 72 percent chose wine coolers. Fifty-four percent or these chose Bartles & Jaymes Wine Coolers, 23 percent chose Seagrams Golden Wine Coolers and the remaining votes were divided evenly among White Zin­fandel Coolers, California Coolers, and White Mountain Coolers. 
However, when male students were asked the same question the results were noticeably dif­ferent: 74 percent or the men chose beer, whereas only 26 per­cent chose wine coolers. Fifty 

Theindependentstudentnewspaper September 18. serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting applications for the following position: 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center 

• Assistant Features Editor Notre Dame, IN 46556 
percent of these chose Bartles & Jay 33 percent chose Seagrams Golden and 17 per­cent chose White Mountain. 
What would discourage some­one from making the wine cooler choice? One possible reason is that oftentimes, especially at local bars, wine coolers are more expensive than the traditional pitcher of beer. Another possibil­ity is the beer image versus the cooler image; one or the male students surveyed reluctantly ad­mitted his wine cooler prefer­ence, but requested anonymity. 
And finally, the choice could be based merely on taste differ-. ences. This idea was presented 
Introducing "BUMMER" ... a Ughterlook at those not-so-perfect days. By cartoonist Kathy Hogan. 

Questions should be directed to Mary Jacoby at the Observer office (239-5313). Resumes and personal statements are due Thursday, 
by sophomore John Griffin saying . "If I want something sweet. I'll drink Hawaiian Punch." 
Nevertheless, it does seem that of the Notre Dame students who prefer wine coolers, Bartles & James is by far the favorite. This is an interesting fact consid­ering that Bartles & Jaymes is manufactured by Ernest and Julio Gallo. Ironically, Ernest's two sons graduated from Notre Dame (David Gallo '61 and Joseph Gallo '62). So it looks as if the "king or wine coolers" can be traced back to this very campus, where its success nourishes among males and females alike. 



Question of the week: voluntary drug testing 
Part of President Ronald Reagan's "war on drugs" includes volun­tary testing by his cabinet members. This trend has filtered down to employers who are demanding their employees undergo similar testing. Do you feel employers have the right to ask for their workers to submit to the tests? Why or why not? 
Students respond on campus activities 
The problem has not been lack of events, but no one will support them. Dorms have so much to do with social life, people are not used to student goyernment playing an active role. Maybe more dorm-sponsored events with other halls might draw more support. Rather than emphasize large campus events, try smaller activities. 
Kathy Ramos Junior -Business Lewis Hall 
We have all heard someone complain about the lack of a "real" social life at Notre Dame. Since South Bend is South Bend, it is often necessary for NO students to look to the campus for something to do. There are a lot of activities going on, but weak promo­tion and motivation sometimes causes a poor turn-out. I would like to see more campus­wide activities, particularly on weekends. An Tostal and football games, two activities that involved the entire campus, are some of the best times here at Notre Dame. Quad "parties" with bands would turn out a good crowd; hopefully the expansion of LaFor­tune will open up a place for dances and other campus functions when it opens. We should work together to get more campus ac­tivity, but at the same time, support those functions by showing up at them. 
Brian O'Gara Sophomore -Arts and Letters Grace Hall 
I think better communication between the student body and administration would help get more campus involvement. the "them" and "us" attitudes will change toward the University and they may get more involved. This would not just be the case for activities at football and basketball games, but always. A lot of people-love being here, but many of them do not like it. By working together, there will be a better feeling toward Notre Dame and there will be more student activity. 
Paul Nobbe Junior -Arts and Letters Fisher Hall 
To increase student interest in activities there should be more direct lines of com­munication between students and planners of campus events. They, in the past, have held traditional events, dances, ice cream socials, etc. More communication with students might bring new ideas and different events. One way to do this is through a survey, voting for the activities which students would be most interested in atten­ding and in planning. 
Robert Keane Sophomore-Arts and Letters Fisher Hall 
There should be more activities scheduled in Winter when there is not a lot to do. One idea would be to close off the first and se­cond floors of the library and have a campus party. 
Jennifer Conlon Junior-Pre-Med Lyons Hall 
Viewpoint Policy 
Viewpoint will befocusing on one time­ly campus, national or international issue each Monday in the "Question of the week" section. We would like you to ad­dress these issues. 
Responses must not exceed 100 words and must list name, major, hall andyear. 
Viewpoint will print as many legitimate responses as space allows each Monday. In the event that all submissions cannot be printed, those appearing in Viewpoint will be representative ofall responses. 
This week's drug testing question responses must be received by 5 PM on Friday. Last week's responses to the cam­pus activities question can be found to the left. 
The Viewpoint Department will also take suggestions for future "Questions of the week." 

The economy is not as rosy as it now seems 
Just before the last presidential elec­appears in a commercial immediately fol­And yet I would like to crash this party we will have another record trade deficit tion, someone told me why he was voting lwing the show to tout E.F. Hutton, be­with the following question: is the eco­this year. And we have not even begun for Reagan: "I object to his foreign policy cause it protects, he says enunciating the nomy really as a rosy as It looks? Were to pay the bill on our two trillion credit views, because, of course, they are so two sacred words in a suddenly hushed Reagan's economic policies a good rea­card, whose interest along amounts to outdated and crude. Still he's doing such voice, "my money." If one were to con­son to vote for him? the third largest expense met by the U.S. a great job for the economy." A young tinue to leave the set on, one would then In 1932 Reagan would have been our taxpayer! white urban professional in an interview find a sitcom taking its place in which the salvation. Far from instituting a conser­It is not that we are in this alone. If a in Newsweek reasoned along similar all-consuming passion of a family's rebel vative belt-tightening policies, in fact, crash on Wall Street could send the entire lines, claiming that although her con­son is to work in the stock market. And Reagan's economic program have been Western World into the Depression in science told her to vote for Mondale be­if comedies do not appeal to you, you described a a turbo-charged New Deal. 1929, the U.S. economy is an even more cause of his pro-abortion stance, her could always turn the channel to "Dallas," Instead of demanding a balanced budget indispensible foundation to the global pocketbook told her to vote for Reagan "Dynasty," or "Lifestyles of the Rich and as a conservatives traditionally have, economy in 1986. Furthermore, for all its 
(and overruled her "conscience," by the Famous." Reagan has spent more than any other rhetoric, the Soviet bloc has indulged in way.). president and has presided over a na­basically the same policies as the Western Today the economy seems to be hum­tional debt which now exceeds two trillion nations of spend, spend and spend. ming along so smoothly that everywhere dollars. To place this in context, at the Although I do not wish to rain on
Chris Julka 
people are beaming with optimism and inception of his administration, the Pres­anybody's parade, if we do not pay at getting subscriptions to the Wall Street Ident stormed the Capitol with doomsday least some attention to the growing Journal. Only I 0 years ago economists speeches because the debt has just evidence that the brute-expansion solu­
in plain english 
were so pessimistic they could have been reached one trillion. tions of the 30's are not working for the 
fire-and-brimstone preachers. Just 15 Without question a policy consisting of 80's, there may be soon no parade left 
These views renect the enormous con­years ago it seemed as though all of the high-deficit spending has been shown to to rain on. With studies showing that the fidence that the majority of Americans lights of the country would go out the work quite effectively in the 1930's. Then scarcity of crucial reources is about to have had in the unlimited destiny of our very next day and capitalism was sup­the sheer economic growth which the reach critical proportions -of which such economy for at least the past three years. posed to have been exposed as an out­high . spending created more than ex­things as the national debt may just be Our economic growth seems to have be­moded system, soon to be replaced by celled the deficits incurred. Now it is the a disguiseel symptom -it is essential that come a religion. The most popular sitcom something more "progressive." Today, 1980's however, and the predictions of our conception of progress starts to go in America todays features a highly suc­now that the Soviet Union's economy the 60's and 70's that we will be at the beyond simply that of expanding the cessful black gynecologist who, instead staggers beneath the weight ofits military end of our tether of critical resources crude bulk of our economy. If it does not, of being the angry rebel of the slumns expenditures and Its nuclear reactors are somewhere by the year 2000 have not then this so-called age of Neo­he would have been in the 60's, luxuriates blowing up, Communism no longer hap­changed. Rapidly falling interest rates Conservatism could, for all its high ambi­in an extremely bourgeois and well-do-do pens to be In fashion, however. Instead have not even budged our economy out tions, usher in an age of nco-feudalism. household with no greater concerns than we have a grass-roots movement to make of its sudden increasing stagnation, those which preoccupied the Cleaver fam­the chairman of Chrysler the next presi­600,000 farmers have been faced to Chris Julka is a junior American Studies 
mcyoranc/ a regular Viewpoint columnist. 

ily. The star who plays this doctor then dent of the United States. forclose with 350,000 likely to follow; and 
Doonesbury 
/II·H/11, RICKS 6IJT
50RRY, MATTY. 

A tn7le PNiJfJIBrl
RICK'5NCJT 

He'S HOPINGWJIJEI(JSON
HOM&,, 

CAN HelPHIM IJ/fTH.
\ 

Garry Trudeau 
JE5iJ5, 
/Jill'l6 THE 
HICLUP5 
f(q)MTH/5 
/WfKTER! 
/ 
Quote of the day 
"Blessed  are  the  pure  in  
heart:  for  they  shall  see  
God."  

Matthew5:8 

-----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
"ie~P-~O~i~n~t~-------------------------------------------------M-on_~_Y_.~__t_~_~ Is_._I9_~---~e 9 
Sacrament of Baptism should be re-evaluated 
would like to make it clear to start that I do believe in God. That may sound like a given to you (Doesn't everyone belive in God?") but it's not. There are people on both campuses who either don't believe in God or are trying right now to sort out exactly what type of god they do believe in. 
Gertie Wimmer 
private I 

What I believe in. right or wrong, is a God pretty much built in the Catholic model. Baltimore cathecism circa 19­who-knows-how-long-ago. I believe in the god I was taught to believe in. the all­powerful, all-loving all-knowing Guy-Gal in the sky. 
What I don't believe in is Baptism as the key to salvation. 
Boom. (Is this what it was like after Hiroshima?) I'm sorry to drop that bomb on you, but I don't believe in Baptism and I have a story to illustrate to you why I don't. just as I know someone out there has a a million bible verses to illustrate why I should ami consequently must. 
This whole question started on me when a friend of mine who is not a Cath­olic asked whether. in the far future, I would have my children baptized. My im­mediate answer. my answer without thinking, was "Of course!" Even I knew that there was. according to the teachings of the Catholic Church. no salvation with­out this initiating sacrament. And I wasn't about to deny my· theoretical children their salvation. But I thought about his question later, and I've been thinking about it ever since. But. you're still waiting 
P.O.BoxQ 
Severe sanctions only solution to apartheid 
Dear t:clitor: 
In his Viewpoint article of September 
I0. Adam Milani argued against the usc of economic sanctions by the United States as a method to bring the South African government to negotiate with that country's Alric<m majority. He argued that such measures will produce no effect on the deeply entrenched white government and would also hurl the population these measures wouild be intended to help ­the Africans themselves. He further sug­gests what seems to be a three pronged policy towards the crisis in South Africa: first. work towards total acceptance of the Sullivan principles by South African busi­nesses; second, investment in U.S. A.l.D. projects in the "homelands"; third, working hard to promote negotiations be­tween the African National Congress and the white government via diplomacy. I would like to argue for an opposing view: that measures such as the ones he sug­gests are at best empty and symbolic and that severe sanctions are both a moral responsibility and would provide and av­enue to peaceful change in South Africa. 
There arc many reasons for imposing strict economic sanctions onthe govern­ment of South Africa. Without them, it is very unlikely this govewrnment would ever be brought to the negotiating table. It has become increasingly clear that un­less the white minority is forced, they will for that illustrational story that will try to establish my point before this column is over, so here it is. 
This last spring I took my young cousin Kimberly to our church at home. Like all children, she was just bubbling over with questions, a few of which hit me rather funny. 
"Who is that'?" she asked, pointing to our friendly parish priest. Father Ben. "Is that God?" I had to smile at the innocence behind her question. "No, that's the priest. He's helping us to find God and worship God." What a swell cousin I make! 
"Then where is God?" was her next question. I didn't know what to reply, having never had younger siblings and not being trained for situations like this. I didn't know how to explain to a child that God is everywhere, that God lives in everyone. I looked helplessly at the aged couple in the pew behind us. What should I say'? What did they tell their children? 
Kimmy grew impatient. "Is God up there?" she asked again, pointing at the front of the church. I was caught. "Something like that," I muttered before shushing her and giving myself time to think. 
Beside me sat this child, I thought, who admittedly didn't have much Catholic Church experience behind her. But she was two short years away from receiving her first Holy Communion, and she didn't even begin to understand the concept of God. And what was worse, there I sat. eight years of Catholic grade school plus four of Catholic high school plus three of Catholic college and I couldn't even begin to explain to her! What words do you use, how do you make them understand that at age this mystery that even to adults remains unclear? 
I'm not advocating that people stop ad­ministering sacraments until we have all this sacred mystery business cleared up. That is ludicrous. What I would very much like to see would be for the Church to wait on the membership drive until the child has at least reached an age of rea­son. 
It is undoubtedly beautiful to see swathed bundles at the baptismal font, being held as they are by young happy parents who are trying to do the right thing for their children. But somehow it sems to me that the choice of faith, the choice of what you are going to believe in for the rest of your life, is something that should be undertaken by someone who knows what their options are, and not by a week or two week old infant. 
So now you see why I am against infant baptism, because I grow wary when people make decisions for me or other people that change or limit the course of our lives. It should be reasonable then that I expound adult baptizing. That isn't quite as heretical as saying that I don't believe in Baptism, and now you releavedly believe that I simply wrote that initial mind-blowing sentence for the shock value. But guess what, there's more. 
According to the Catholic Church, through Baptism you, me and everyone else become "children of God." But isn't that rather unneccesary, I've been think­ing? If God is all-loving, which he is sup­posed to be, then God must love you regardless of whether you are baptized or not, or even· (shocking) whether you are Christian or not. 
Baptism does not unconditionally guarantee you a place in heavan. Then how can non-baptism unconditionally 
not undertake serious negotiations with the black majority. The African National Congress has been trying since its forma­tion in 191 2 to bring about non racial, truly representative government in South Africa through diplomatic means. Its ef­forts have been answered by a continual erosion of basic liberties and deepening of the apartheid system. The increasing intransigence of the white government was displayccl clearly in the experience of the t:mminent Persons Group. After months of efforts to bring the two sides together at the negotiating table, it be­came clear to this group representing the Commonwealty Community that the whites had no real interest in negotiations involving real chang~s in the apartheid structure. In fact, in the midst of this groups efforts to achieve negotiations. the South African government snubbed them in dramatic fashion by bombing Zimbabwe and Botswana, both commu­nity members. The group concluded by recommending the Commonwealth com­munity impose strict sanctions. Thus, the record of the South African government belies any expectations that it will seriously negotiate unless it is forced to 
do so. 
The Emminent Persons Group's recom­mendation for sanctions matches calls by nearly every legitimate black leader in .South Africa. These leaders realize that a'ltt10ugh economic sanctions may harm some blacks, the effect of no sanctions would be catastrophic. In the short term the bloodshed and civil strife would con­tinue. The squalor will continue in the "homelands" and black townships. In the long term, as the black populations in­creases and the "homelands" become even more crowded than they already are, this squalor (malnutrition, lack of ade­quate health care, housing, education, sanitation and family life) will get worse 
(i.e. turn to starvation, absence of health care, housing, education, sanitation and family life). These worsening conditions would lead to revolution. Although the fighting would be drawn out, the Africans would eventually win as the whites would become too spread out to overcome the blacks using conventional means. Need­less to say, such a civil war would case thousands of lives and would leave the country in tatters -its economic in­frastructure possibly completely destroyed. The immediate aftermath of the fighting would be likely, then, to fea­ture continued malnutrition and human suffering. The black leaders are certainly in the best position to weight the suffering likely to be experienced by their own people. When they call for sanctions, then, it is not our place to judge their ability to survive the harmful effects of sanctions. It is our place, our respon­siblity, to stand with the black majority. and to prove this support by imposing strict sanctions. 
The United States House of Represen­tatives certainly heard the call for sanc­tions when they produced a bill this sum­mer calling for a total trade embargo along with complete divestment of all 
U.S. companies having investment in South Africa. If this bill were to become a law, it is not at all clear that as Milani writes, "South African whites will fell few, if any effects... " Such a significant move would have an immediate and direct ef­damn you to hell (or limbo, if you don't meet the minimum age requirement for hell.) I don't believe that it can, because I believe and I choose to believe that God will judge you on your life, on whether you did mostly good or mostly evil. and not on whether you were officially chris­tened a Catholic. 
For example, I don't believe in Mahatma Gandhi is in hell simply because he wasn't baptized. The man led a life of goodness that most Catholics would be envious of, a life that few other human beings can even approach. And yet somebody dares tell me this man is in hell because he was not baptized? Sorry, but this doesn't sell cookies. I can imagine, however, that most people are willing to grant me this 
one  exception.  Gandhi  is  in  heaven.  
Thanks.  
But if there is  no exception,  couldn't  

there be a dawning possibility that it isn't the ceremony that plays a large part in achieving heaven, but is in fact life and how you choose to lead it? Boom. · 
All paths lead to God in the end. Gandhi made it and he wasn't Catholic. As a Cath­olic, I believe that salvation lies in Jesus Christ. But I hope you can feel as I do that a person could attain salvation just as assuredly from Buddha or Allah if they led a good life. It's not the name that you worship that matters, but the manner in which you worship and live. And if your life is the all important factor in your salvation, to what point ceremony. To what purpose baptism? It kind of makes the initiation obsolete, doesn't it? Now you know where I'm coming from. 
Gertie Wimmer is a senior En­glishGerman major at Saint Mary's and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
feet on the whites of South Africa. More significantly, a strict sanctions package from the -United :States would be in­strumental in persuading other major Western nations to take similarly strict steps. There is little doubt that if strict sanctions were imposed on a worldwide level that the white government would soon be brought to the negotiating table. Amer.ican sanctions would not be empty, merely symbolic, and ineffectual. 
Meanwhile, Milani's suggestions do not respond to the true scope of the problem. The Sullivan Principles have been around along time and have not produced and are not geared to produce an end to apar­theid. The example of the Emminent Per­sons Group proves that merely "getting our hands dirty" and working hard to per­suade the south Africans to negotiate will not work. To suggest that the United States invest in the "homelands" seems to be a fundamentally wrong approach. The "homelands" are one of the greatest evils of the apartheid system. Such aid would only strengthen this evil arrange­ment -sending the message that the United States believes the "homelands" policy is indeed a reasonable way to treat people. 
The South African government beliebves it can make it through the pres­ent storm without negotiations. It cannot­this storm is not going to end. We have the power to make them realize thisa prior to, rather than after a bloody revo­lution has started. We have responsibility to show our profound longing to end apartheid by imposing severe sanctions. 
Joe Merchant Orace Hall 

General Board
The Observer 
Edltor-tn·Chtel Joe Murphy Busmess Manager. .. _.... Eric Scheuermann 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dama, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managmg Edttor . Kev1n Becker Controller .. .... Alex VonderHaar Vtewpomt Edttor. . . . Scott Bearby Produclton Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Sports Edt tor Oenn1s Corrigan Photography Manager . James Carroll Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the poilc1es of the Accent Edttor Mary Jacoby Adverttsmg Maflager. . Anne M. Culllgah administration of either institution. The news ts reported as accurately and obJeCtively as Samt Mary's Edt tor Matg1e Kersten 
Systems Manager. .. Shawn Sexton .......... Mark Welmholtpossible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the a matonty of the Ed1tonal Board. News Edt tor. Tnpp Baltz Graphtc Arts Manager. . Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the v1ews of the11 authors. Column 
News Edttor Mark Pankowski OCN Manager. . ........ Francis X. Malone space Is available to all members of the the commumty and the free express1on of vary1ng OPI­nions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 
The Observer Monday, September 15, 1986 -page 10 
Sports 'Briefs 
Julie Merkel was the top Notre Dame finisher in the Hillsdale College Women's Cross Country Invitational, finishing fifth overall with it time of 17:51. Mary Shea of Michigan Slate won the competition in 16:57. In the team standings, the Irish copped third place with 92 points, behind tournament champion Siena Heights ( 137) and Detroit (94). Details will itppear ill tomorrow's Observer. · The Observer 
The Notre Dame water polo team has scheduled practice today at I I p.m. in the Rockne pool. htrlhcr information mity be oblitille<l by contacting Dave f'atchin at 4502. -The Obscn·cr 
A meeting has been scheduled for all returning and incom­ing men a;1d women swimmers at ?:59 p.m. today_ in the Roll Aquatic Center. rurthcr informatton may be obtame<l by conl<tctin~~ Debbie Smith at 239-59H4. -The Observer 
Anyone interested in rowing for the women's novice rowit~g team is to meet today or tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. at the Mam Circle. Further information may be obtained by contacting l'atricia Warth at 3023. -The Observer 
The South lkml YWCA is sponsoring a Run Jane Run five­and 1 0-l<.ilomctcr race at Saint Mary's on Thursday at 5:30 
p.111. A fun walk will lake place at the same time, <l_nd _re~i~tra­tion may be done on race day at Angela Athletic Fac1l1ty. · The Observer 
NVA is looking for women's flag football ami soccer officials for the upcoming intcrhall season. rurthcr information an~Vor registration may be obtained by stopping by the NVA offices in the ACC. -The Observer 
The Notre Ditme Ritcquctbitll Club ltas slated it short or· ganizational meeting to elect officers tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. in 127 Nicuwland. -The O.bservcr 
The Notre Dame baseball team opened up its 1986 fall season with a split of a doubleheader yesterday at Jake Kline field. The Irish dropped the opener to Bradley, 3-1, in nine innings before rebounding to take the second game, .6-.', from the Braves. Irish pitcher Mike Passila took the wm m the second game. Details of all the action will appear in tomorrow's Observer. · The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced that Sept. 17 is the deadline for the following non-varsity events: CROSS COUNTRY: seven-man teams with five scoring, members must be from same hall, individuals may enter. 
HANDBALL: advanced, novice and beginners. 
SCRAMBLE GOLF TOURNEY: to be held Sept.2 I, students, faculty or staff may enter, individuals or pairs, $4 greens fees, prizes. ULTIMATE FRISBEE TOURNEY: minimum I 0-person rosters, students and staff, no dorm restrictions, round robin. 
In addition, Sept. 16 is the deadline for a Grad-Faculty soccer league, and individuals who wish to play may get on a team by stopping by the NVA offices. 
Hydrorobics and the Century Club are two activities de­signed with fitness in mind, and are upcoming NY~ .events. 
Further ihformation on these and other NVA act1v1t1es may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-61 00, or by stop­ping by the offices in the ACC. 
Denver Bronco's quarterback John Elway will take his 1-0 team into Pittsburgh tonight for an AFC battle against the winless Steelers. 
Favored Broncos in unusual role as they prepare for Steelers clash 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH · In the past it would have been a mistake to feel overconfident playing the Pittsburgh Steelers, especially in Three Rivers Stadium, but the Denver Broncos may have to guard against that tonight. 
The Broncos, I -0, are 6-point favorites. It is likely the point spread would have been higher if the Steelers weren't ... well, the Steelers. 
But if one needs any statistics to argue that the present-day Steelers, 0-I, bear little resemblance to their four-time Super Bowl champion predeces­sors, consider these: 
-since winning their fourth Super Bowl in the 1979 season, the Steelers have won only one playoff game, against Denver in 1984. They were 7-9 last year, 
their first  losing  season  in  14  
years.  
·  the  Steelers' offense  ranks  

28th in the National rootball League after a 30-0 loss to the Seattle Seahawks, who allowed Pittsburgh inside their 35-yard line only once. It was the first opening-game shutout loss in the Steelers' 54-year history. 
· the Steelers' offense hasn't generated a touchdown since the next-to-last game of Ihe 1985 season. 
· they have won only twice in their last I 0 games, including preseason games, and only once i11 their last six re~ular-season 
games.  
·  quarterback  Mark  Malone  
couldn't  complete  any  of  the  
seven  passes  he  threw  to  star  

wide receiver Louis Lipps against Seattle. Malone was intercepted three times in completing only 9 of 27 passes for 79 yards, and his quarterback rating is 2. !J, or 138 points lower than that of league-leading Ken O'l~rien of the New York Jets. 
1\ut if the 1\roncos believe they can easily beat the Stcdcrs at Pittsburgh for the third time in four seasons, none of them arc saying it out loud. 
"Tradition is there in this game," defensive end Rulon Jones said. "If there's a rivalry for us outside our division, you have to point toward Pittsburgh. It's a long-standing and bitter rivalry." 
The Broncos scored plenty of points against the Los Angeles Raiders last Sunday but almost didn't win, escaping with a 38-36 victory. Quarterback John t:lway threw two touchdown passes and caught another on a flea nicker, and reserve linebacker Ken Woodard had seven tackles and a 16-yar<l fumble recovery touch­down. 
Steclers' linebacker Bryan Hinkle said the key to containing the Broncos' high-powered of­fense is slopping Elway. 
One of Denver's top receivers, Vance Johnson, is out for six weeks with a knee injury, forcing running back Steve Sewall to work at wide receiver. 
The Slcclers were down to one healthy running back, recently signed free agent David Hughes, in the fourth quarter against Seattle. But Abercrombie !hip in­
jury), Rich t:renbcrg (scpar<Jted shoulder) ami rrank Pollard (knee injuryl me all expected to play ilBil insl Denver. 
Two Steclcrs' offensive line regulars who sat out the Seattle loss with ittiuries, tackle Tunch llkin and rookie guard John Rienstra, also will play. 
The l~roncos won 31-23 at Pit­tsburgh last season, scoring 2 I fourth-quarter points. Denver is the only NFL team that owns an edge (4-3) over the Steelers at Pittsburgh, but the l~roncos arc 0-7 in Monday night road games. 

1hc fJhS('rt·er "'\otrt· I>JnH.: olfh.t· lilt.Jil·d clll 1hc: thtnl rllHif 11! IJiununc: '-trtu.knt < c:nlc:r Jt.t. t:ph t.IJ,,tfic:d Jt.h t'fll'.,lll).! fr••nt '' .1 111 un[lr 1 p m \fond.J\ thrtHI~h I ndJ\ /he• tJhsc•r,.t'r "JIIlt \1.tn.., ,,tft\t· hll,lltd tHliiH: lhtnl llcu1r tlf 
IIJ~~Jr ( ullt·~·· ( nlln. J< ll'PI' tiJ"IIint-lrnm I~ ~~~ p 111 nntd ~pIll \1un dJ\ thou~h I ndJ\ llcJdl11w lor IK" d,l\ 'l.1"1linl' " ~ pIll \II tiJ"olint­
rnu't he.: prc:pJtd c.·11 hc.:r tn pc:r-"'''n ''r In 111.11! I h.ugt.· '' ll It t'llh per II\ t· l h.u.u.
Classifieds 
h:r... t'r dJ~ 
Wanted: Volunteer Coach for Gymnas­HAPPY BIRTHDAY CINDY!
MOM AND DAD DESPERATELY WANT 

Special Olympics Coaches: Volun­tic club Team. Call Matt. 3311 You finally caught up! Be good (not
TO SEE THEIR DAUGHTER AND A NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL GAME. 2 

NOTICES FOR SALE 
teers needed to coach teams-Soccer, too good!) Love your wlerd roomate 
Basketball, Bowling. Variety of age ... Tara. 
GA'S TO ANY HOME GAME! ANGIE.

and ability groups. Interest and expe­TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. 
284-5094

rience In sports helpful. 6 to 12 week TICKETS Need babysltter:day&eve hours as
CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. 

Efficiency apt. private entrance good time commitment. Call Bill Thomas • needed.3klds(7,5.2)Need car­neighborhood utilities paid 288· 289-4831 Sml.away call 2n-8807 
TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE.
0955-255-3684
TYPING AVAILABLE 

255-1343 AFTER 5:30.
Volunteers needed lor Special Olym­PERSONALS House lor rent. One mile north of pics: Local Special Olympics program campus. S125olnC>)lerson. 3 bdrms. has opportunities lor volunters · 
287-4082 WANTED Ever heard of NATURAL FAMILY20 GA'S lor SMU, Nov.8. Call x2683

Call 674-6595 alter 5 p.m. sports team practices. games, tourna­
Wordprocesslng resumes, etc. PLANNING? This alternative to con­Typeset quality. 287-9024. traceptl on Is
ments. and events. Call Mary Bell • STUDENTS!!-Purchase your class BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms lor par­289-4831 books at PANDORA'S and SAVE$$"
DESPERATE lor 2 Purdue GAs CALL 4354 
sale,healthy,EFFECTIVE,and morally Driver needed to deliver the Observer. acceptable! Learn more tonlte at 7pm
ents on football special weekends. Newotlsed books. BOUGHT & SOLO. 3 
This Is a paid position. Must be avail­Call 1·219-291-7153. Swimming Instructors: needed to Day Service on textbook orders. PAN· at Hayes-healy Aud.Marrled and en­
NEED 3 GA'S TO AIR FORCE GAME:
teach as a volunteer-classes for men­DORA·s BOOKS 9.17 Sn Bend Ave
able from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday gaged couples register lor class tally handicapped. Saturday morn· 
CHRIS £1107
and Wednesday. Apply at the Obser­ph. 233-2342. Sept22&29 on campus. Call 237-7401
TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER 
lngs. Please call LOGAN Recreation · RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Desperately In need of 2 Purdue GA ·s. 
ver. 3rd floor LaFortune, or call 2339. or2n-8807. 
Bill Thomas • 289-4831 MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 11 :30 •
FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. Call Margaret 284-4388. 
12:30 M-F 2ND FLOOR NEW WING 

Driver needed to deliver the Observer. SSSNEED 1 PURDUE TIX·CALL PAUL LAFORTUNE $20·5200 FOR 30 DAYS 
This Is a paid position. Must be avail­x3467 1% INTEREST RECENT GRAD MOVING TO L.A. 
ND-MSU TICKETS: BEST OFFER 404­NEED TO SELL CAR '68 NOVA WI '75 292-7211 AFTER 6 PM. 
able from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday 

and Wednesday. Apply at the Obser­Need money? Driver needed lor the OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, ENGINE, GREAT FOR INDIANA ver, 3rd floor LaFortune or call 2339.
WINTERS, $400 OR BEST OFFER,
LOST/FOUND 

5$$$ CALL TOM OR BILL 232-4352. 
Observer. Thlsls a paid position. Must CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE 
I need Penn St. GA"s. II you want to sell.please call Andy x2211.SS$SS 
be available from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Monday and Wednesday. Apply at the
HELP!!! 

Word processor lor sale. 272-8827. LOST AT NAVARRE ST SAT NIGHT Observer. 3rd floor Lafortune, or call Wanted GA's lor Purdue and Alrlorce
2339.· games. Willing to pay BIG Bucks call DEVO went to aerobics on 9111.
JEAN JACKET. KEYS. SMC 1.0..56. Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­
CAMERA. AND MAKE-UP 2266. MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: PLEASE CONTACT MICHELLE 284· Monday· Thursday 5pm-12am. Friday 
TELEPHON£ INTERVIEWERS. NO DISCOVER OMBUDSMAN AND TAKE
4344 WANTED 5pm-2am. Saturday 5pm-1am. Sunday 
SELLING INVOLVED GUARANTEED. I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tickets YOUR PET PEEVE FOR A WALK TO
THANKS!!! 4pm-10pm
$4 HR., MUST WORK 5 HRS. SAT. & desperately! Call Mike at 283-1655. GRIPE NIGHT MONDAY AT NORTH 5 HRS. SUN. WITH ADDITIONAL HRS. AND SOUTH DINING HALLS DURING AVAILABLE. LOCATED DOWNTOWN $$ HELP! I NEED 5 TIX FOR SMU DINNER
ATIENTION ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. 
THE OBSERVER OFFICE IN HAGGARSTUDENTS: RESTAURANT WORK. SO. BEND. CALL MARKET OPINION GAME! PLEASE CALL CAROL 2n­

ALL POSITIONS. FULL TIME. PART RESEARCH, 282-2754, MON-FRI, 5-8 8732 HALL IS NOW OPEN FROM 12:30 TO NEED AN OUTLET FOR QUESTIONS LOST a pair of Stetson wire reading TIME, FLEXIBLE SCHED. SEEKING P.M. AND COMPLAINTS? DISCOVER OM·
3 P.M. DAILY. glasses In a brown case. I have not QUALITY PEOPLE FOR A QUALITY HELP!! I NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX BUDSMAN GRIPE NIGHT. TONIGHT. done any homeworlc since I lost them ROOMMATES WANTED. FOR MY UTILE BRO e BUDDIE. NORTH AND SOUTH DINING HALLS.
ATMOSPHERE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CHUCK PELL, what Is your phone 8-29. Call Marte at 234-8568 Will make APPLY IN PERSON MON-SUN, 2·4 AT mate mce house. good locat•on ?72-PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT X4667. 
number? Please leave It In my box. It worth your effort. STEAK & ALE. U.S. 31 NO. 7017 or ?77-?194 THANKS! WHAT A CANUCK! 
Mark. 


The Observer Monday, September 15, 1986-page 11 
Michigan classic starts a new ND football era 

Tailback Mark Green picked up 57 yards and one touchdown on the ground. Holtz stated afterwards: "the fans were outsta 
PXciled." 


11 011

Fullback Pernell Taylor (46) and Green (24) keyed the Irish ground attack. w "."'"'·"'" 111 """""' 
----------~------------------~---~--------------------------~ The Observer Monday, September 15, 1986-page 12 
NFL roundup 

Bears give Ryan rude homecoming 
Associated Press 
To the players on the Chicago Bears defense, it was the return of a hero. Those same defenders made sure that Buddy Ryan did not come back to Chicago as a conquering hero. 
It wasn't easy. The Bears were forced to overtime before record­;ng a 13-I 0 NFL victory over the Philadelphia Eagles yesterday. Ryan, who devised the 46 Defense that the Bears mastered in winning the Super Bowl last year, left in January to become head coach of the Eagles. 
Before the game, several Bears stopped to chat with Ryan. Afterward, middle linebacker Mike Singletary and Ryan embraced in the corridor outside the locker rooms. 
"I wish you'd let that Buddy thing rest," linebacker Otis Wil­son said. ''I'm glad it's over with. We beat him. He's 0-2 and we're 2-0." 
Barely. 
Kevin Butler, who missed four of five field goal tries in regula­tion time, kicked a 23-yarder S:S6 into the extra period after Charles Crawford fumbled the kickoff to begin the overtime. 
Walter Payton rushed 34 times for I 77 yards and scored the Bears' only touchdown on a 1­yard dive. It was his IOOth career touchdown, putting him behind only John Riggins with I 06 and Jim Brown with I04 among N Fl. rushers. He now has 7S I 00-yard ~ames in his career and IS, ISO yards overall. 

The Eagles forced overtime with a scoring pass from Ron Jaworski to Mike Quick. 
Elsewhere yesterday, it was Cincinnati 36, Buffalo 33 in over­time; Cleveland 23, Houston 20; Dallas 31, Detroit 7; New Orleans 24, Green Bay I 0; Washington 
I 0, Los Angeles Raiders 6; At­lanta 33, St. Louis 13, and the New York Giants 20, San Diego 
7. 
In late games, it was the Los 
Angeles Rams 16, San Francisco 13; Minnesota 23, Tampa Bay I 0; Miami 30, Indianapolis I 0; and Seattle 23, Kansas City I 7. 
On Thursday, it was New En­gland 20, the New York Jets 6. Monday night's game is Denver at Pittsburgh. 


Former Olympic gold-medalist Mark Breland, shown here celebrating after knock­ing out an opponent in a previous bout, did 
Olympic heroes Breland, Biggs punch their way to easy victories 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J -former Olympic gold medalists Mark Breland and Tyrell Briggs se­cured easy triumphs in separate bouts last night 
Biggs, the I 984 Olympic super heavyweight champion from Philadelphia, scored a I0-round unanimous decision over Detroit heavyweight Percell Davis. 
Breland stopped Reggie Miller of Lake Charles, La., with a right­hand barrage at I :4 I of the second round in a scheduled I 0­round welterweight bout 
Biggs, I I -0 with seven knock­outs, unloaded a torrent of body shots and left hooks to the head against Davis, who weighed 2S3 pounds. 
Davis, 13-S with nine knock­outs, inspired an early slugfest and landed some solid left hooks to the head but fought to survive after Biggs landed several un­answered combinations in the fifth. 
"I felt no fear in the right hand," said Biggs, who suffered a broken collarbone in a March triumph over Jeff Sims. He was reluctant to use the right hand in an August knockout of Rod Smith. 
"I hit the guy with everything and he didn't go, but I was still satisfied," Biggs said. "If he wants to fi~ht backing up, I'lljust take the win." 
Breland, from New York City, the welterweight gold medalist in 1984, became 14-0 with nine knockouts as a pro. 
Breland floored Miller with a right hand in the opening round. Although Miller survived the round, Breland stopped him with several right-hand bombs in the second. 
"In the beginning a lot of guys 

just wanted to say they went the distance with me," Breland said. "Now I'm fighting more accom­plished fighters. They want what I have and they're coming to fight so I've been able to knock them out." 
Miller was stopped for the first time in his career. His record is now 18-6, including I I knock­outs. 
HIGH-TECH HASN'TMADE US LOSE OURTOUCH. 
As an Army Nurse, you'll be introduced to some of the most advanced technology available. But that won't keep you from working with your patients on a one-to-one basis. 
You'll be an integral part of the Army health care team: top­quality professionals who share the same high goals with you. In fact, among Army nurses, 99% hold BSN degrees and over 25% have Masters. 
The Army Nurse Corps. Highly advanced, highly reward­ing. Get in touch with us, by calling your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter today. 
SGT BERRY
234-4187 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
AI' photo 

Chicago Bears' running back Walter Payton picked up his 
15,OOOth career rushing yard and his I Oath career touchdown yesterday as he led his Bears team to a 13-I 0 overtime win over the Philadelphia Eagles. A recap of all the day's NFL action appears at left. 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL SCHOOL TRIP 
Friday, October 3 

Meet with ND alumni and tour the medical school. 
Pick up applications in 201 Administration Building. Space limited to 30 pre-med students. 
Applications due September19. 
Registration fee of $7.00 required. 
STUDENT· ALUMNI 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL RELATIONS 
SOCIETY GROUP 
·33A%oil 4Jor9 one hour processing & prints one hour color repnnts Big 4x6 prints from 135 film. 110, 126 4 repnnts from the same col~r nega­or disc color print sizes vary (C41 ' t1ve. B1g 4x6 pnnts from 135 film. 110, process only). No limit on number of 126 or disc color print sizes vary (C41 rolls with coupon. Not combinable process only). Coupon can be used with other processing and print on any number of negat1ves. Not offers. Offer is void where prohibited, combmabl_e w1th other r~,:mnt offers. taxed, or licensed by law. Cash value Offer IS vo1d where prohibited, taxed, 1/20¢. or licensed by law. Cash value 1/20¢. Coupon good through November 8, 1986 Coupon good through November 8, 1986 
SEARS SEARS
90SRP0915 


Monday, September 15. 1986-page 13

The Observer 
Soccer team drops weekend opener to nationally-ranked Indiana, 2-0 
Keenan took it to the right was the damp field.
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer around keeper Hugh Bresin. He Indiana scored again at 5:49 centered it to John Johnson, who of the second half. Pete BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -The defiected the pass into the open Stoyanovich took a lead pass Notre Dame soccer team played net at the 6:46 mark. from Herb Haller on right wing. a good game, but it was not good Irish wingback Tom Pernsteiner enough as the 18th-ranked In­"They're a good team," Irish forced Stoyanovich wide of the diana Hoosiers downed the Irish, captain Steve Lowney said. "We goal, but the Hoosier forward 2·0. made a couple of mistakes and rified a shot through Breslin's they capitalized. But I thought we legs for the goal. The game was never really didn't back down." dominated by either team. In· In fact, the play on the field Sternberg had an excellent diana did have the better scoring got more physical. The Irish out· scoring chance with 12 minutes chances, outshooting Notre fouled the Hoosiers, 20· I 2. The left in the game, but his shot Dame, 12·5, but the Irish regis­referee also issued three yellow sailed just wide to the right. tered one more corner kick than cards, to Notre Dame's Tommy the Hoosiers. Gerlacher and to Indiana's Tim Indiana also kept the pressure "We did well," said Head Coach Hylla and Kevin Godat. on the Notre Dame defense, but Dennis Grace. "We weren't in­sweeper Pat Szanto stopped timidated by them. We should The Irish apparently were not several rushes. not feel bad about our perfor· comfortable with the rough play. mance." Stopper John Guignon, usually While the loss does not help The Irish easily could have a force on offense, stayed pretty the team's chances of gaining an 
The Oh~PNPrA'liP 

submitted to the Hoosiers early much on the defensive side of NCAA bid, it does show that Notre 
Junior defender Steve Lowney of the Notre Dame soccer
in the game. Midfielder Joe play. And the team slipped to the Dame, which lost to Indiana 4-0 
team helped his squad improve its record to 4-1 on the season
Sternberg lost the ball in the ground several times, as much last year, is approaching that 
as it split a pair of weekend contests. Details appear on page
penalty area, and Indiana's Chris a result of stutter-stepping as it level of play. 16 and page 13. 
Freshman trio runs well, but ND comes up 2nd 
By DENNIS O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
For Notre Dame men's cross country coach Joe Plane, the first meet of the season for his 1986 team resulted in some mixed emotions. 
While especially pleased with the times of three freshmen run­ners, Plane admitted that finish­ing behind Ohio State and ahead of Michigan State was not satis­fying. 
"We could have, and maybe even should have won the meet," said Plane, who is entering his twelfth year as the Irish coach. "Some of our guys are capable of running much better times." 
It was, however, a close race, as the .38 points by the Irish was slightly behind the Buckeyes' .32 and well ahead of the Spartans' 58 mark. Both Ohio State and Michigan State are strong con­tenders for the Big 1 0 title. 
"Both Ohio State and Michigan State," said Plane, "should finish in the top half of the Big Ten." 
If there was a bright spot for the Irish, it was in the perfor­mances of freshmen Mike Rogan, Tom O'Rourke and the overall winner in the meet, Mike O'Connor. 
"I teally was happy with the three freshmen today," Plane said. "All three ran a fine race, and they'll only get better." 
Top finisher Mike O'Connor remarked that his 24:52 time was "good enough for today," but even he realized the team must improve for future meets, espe­cially the National Catholic Invi­tational, which will be run in two weeks. 
Co-Captain Rick Mulvey, who finished seventh overall in the meet with a time of 25:44, was pleased with the team's showing, since he, Dan Garrett, and several others were injured to start the season. 
"We should have won the meet, but the injuries are no ex­cuse," said the junior Co­Captain. "We're definitely looking to finish first at the Na­tional catholics." 
Plane, who is hoping to im­prove on last year's third place finish, agreed with Mulvey's as­sessment. And despite having a team loaded with freshmen and sophomores, he is not looking to the future. 

L-.nlngaboutyourwlt, dealingwith problema. and goowlng with the change~ In your life areImportant porta oflhe Noire Dameexperience. 
The Professional Staff of the University Counseling Center (UCC) 
INVITES YOU TO 

CONSIDER JOINING AGROUP 
The following grOUP' will beollered to·lloefents during 
the Fall Sell\elter: 

1. Everything You Wanted toKnow About Relatli1g To Other People 1utCouldn't Figure Out Alone • ·lhla weekly confidential therapy group Ia designed for students who arestruggling with •-such aa reaching out when you feel lonely •laolated. gelling 
cloleto othersand developing lnttmaey, dealing with anger • conflict with others and balancing the need to betrue to you1'181f with others wlahesand expectattona. TUUDAY$:3:30-6 pm; Co-l.eaderl: Rita Donley a Tom Thompeon 
2. The Adun Chllclren ot Alcoholic Parentsgroup Is a confidential support group for those students whose lives have been affected bythe drinking of their parent(s). Some IIIUeland topics that will be addrltlled ln'clude: education about the diMaae ofalcoholism/problem drinking and how membersareatrected; common char· acterlltlcscC adultchildren of alcoholics; learning about the proceaof loving detachment from the problems but notthe peraon; methods offorming healthyattitudes and relatlonlhiPt; strea reduction, realistic goal...ttlng and CIIMftlvenesa training. Flrlt Meeting: Tuelday,september 16, <Hpm; Leader: sattv Coleman. 
Women's Support Group -lhlsweekly, confidential therapy group Is designed lor women who would like to explore Issues related to ldenttty, sell-esteem, lndepend· ence, relationshiP~, asaertlvenea, anger, Intimacy • sell· acceptance. THURSDAYS: 3:30-apm; Co-l.eaderl: Christine Conwaya Rita Donley 
•· Eating Disorder Group -Thisweekly, confidential therapy group Ia designed for women with eating prob­lema. Common signs Include: depresalon, low self-esteem, fear of being/becoming obese, unusual eating habits and a preoccupation with food. WEDNESDAYS: 3:30-5pm; Co-Leaders: Mary Raeker. Unda Monroe. 
5. The Grief • Lou Group -This Information and support group Is designed for students who have exper· len<~ed a slan!flcant losa such as a death of a close trlend PIQnt,llbllng.orOilier lamlly-in.mb.r. 
111M: Tole Ananfed: ~Linda,.__, a.-1um1 
IQtII'OIMATION AND IBP ..DICIDIN8 AIOUJ 
,AITICI,ATINQ, CALL 239-7336 OR ST~ IV MONDAY­
FRIDAY, 9:0Garn-5:00pm AT UCC (3rd noor of the Studenl 
Health Cen*l· 

Williams 
continuedfrom page 16 
front of the frenzied Notre Dame student body. 
But the back judge, who was standing right before the play, 
raced  forward  and  called  the  
pass incomplete  to  deny  the  
score.  

The Irish settled for a 25-yard field.goal that left them one point shy of the Wolverines at 24-2.3. 
"I couldn't believe· the call," said Williams. "My left foot was in by two feet and my right foot came down before the line. I felt that (the ref) wasn't sure about the call because he refused to talk to me about it." 

'Tm not a referee but there is no doubt in my mind that he was in," said Beuerlein. "Joel thought he had both feet in and I was sure he did. I sure would like to see the replay." 
ABC Television, which broad­casted the game nationally, showed the catch repeatedly from a side angle which could not yield an exact determination. It appeared that, after the catch, Williams definitely kept both feet in bounds. His right foot, however, is blocked from view on the step before he actually catches the ball. Williams would have been an ineligible receiver if he had stepped on the line, even if he did so before catching the ball. 
"I couldn't see that far," said Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. "That's why I wear bifocals and got a cast on my finger catching a punt. But the Michigan ball boy down there said (Williams) had both feet in bounds. I don't know. I'd like to think Michigan runs an honest school." 
Michigan head coach 'Bo' Schembechler, however, felt he didn't need to see the play to know the truth. 
"l couldn't even see the play from where I was standing," he said. "But in Notre Dame Stadium -he was obviously out." 
McCourt 
continued/rom page 16 
sophomore midfielder Joe Sternberg fed the ball to McCourt who again fired the ball low and hard, making the score .3-2. The score stayed there despite an ef­fort by Steve Lowney to connect with a teammate on an indirect kick. 
Yet even with some tine indi­
vidual performances, the team 
had some problems. 
An excessive amount of bad thought, bad passes, bad luck, and yellow cards plagued the contest. Of the latter, Michigan. received four while Notre Dame received two. Irish striker Pat Szanto picked up one of those, while the sophomore forward Morris was hit with a red card after two rough tackles and a yel­low card in the first half. 
"We need to be mentally prepared for Wednesday's game," said Grace. "We're down right now, but we came back today after Friday's loss. We will be ready for the game." 
Monday, September 15, 1986-page 14
The Observer 

Michigan, the Irish gave up after "Wejust looked each other in the to play on Saturday." to the questions he ha<t entering muffing the opening kickoff. Sat­eye and said (that) we're not the game. Yes, his team
Finish 

urday, after muffinga kickoffand going to lay down and get rolled But as much as the loss hurt. responde<! well under adversity. continuedfrompoge 16 giving Michigan a I0-point lead, over." the players in the locker room Yes, the offensive and defensive 
the Irish fought back. The afterwards were able to answer lines held their own a~Jainst not seen another in the line of defense, which hacl allowed And the offense, which had reporters' questions with their much larger Wolverine lines. And Notre Dame moments. scoring drives of 80, 74. 78 and moved the ball only to turn it over heads held high. As Ikucrlcin yes, coach. the team (lid move 
But what they had seen was an 27 yards, stiffened and held the when it got close, kept corning put it, "We know we're good. we the ball lorward. Irish squad that refused to die. Wolverines the rest of the way. back. As Michigan head coach l~o
showed it today. We can move 
.the ball against anybody, and our
Instead of the Failing Irish of And it forced the fumble which Schembcchler said. "'This Notre 
years past. Saturday witnessed set up the last effort. YOU Know, we're going to defense can stop anybody.'" Dame team is goinn to surprise the rebirth of the Fighting Irish, bounce back," said Steve Beuer­many people. They arc not even when they had every reason "We didn't make any adjust­lein. "It's a loss, and it hurts right If. as Holtz said, it wasn't a devoid ol talent. This team will to roll over. ments,'" said defensive tackle now. But come Monday, we're moral victory ("Notre Dame win a lot ol ball games... 
I 
But Saturday was different. Robert Banks, who was playing gonna be ready for Michigan doesn't have moral victclries,'" J]e That"s sorncthinn we can all
I 
In last season's opener against his first game at that position. State, and they better be ready noted). it was a least an answer look Jorwanl to.
I 
I I by fullback Pernell Taylor and an ing to bounce our way but you've Griffin's hit and recovered· by kicker Harry Oliver's boot beat I interception ci a Beuerlein end­got to credit Michigan. They're Pritchett. set the stage for a dra­the Wolverines at the buzzer.
Classic 

zone throw by Wolverine very poised and didn't make·any matic and final Notre Dame com­This kick, which did not appear
continued from poge 16 defender David Arnold -killed rnistakes." eback attempt. to be tipped, sailed wide to theI nine months it took to get here. two long drives. Fifth-year Michigan fullback left.
I 
It was a heck of a football game, Then, on the next Irish drive, Bob Perryman did make a costly Beuerlein started the drive out
I 
but it was only one game." controversy erupted when error. though, fumbling away the right. getting enough protection "I knew Carney would miss," 
~ 
One game, nevertheless. Beuerlein's third-down throw to ball with I :33 left on the clock. from his offensive line to connect cracked Schembechler. "This
I 
rarely features as much drama Williams in the back of the end Harbaugh's perfect clutch throw on passes to wide outs Alvin Mil­was my turn. I think somebody
I or fine moments as did Satur­zone was ruled incomplete be­to receiver John Kolesar on the ler and Milt Jackson. Those is trying to tell us that we should
I 
day's spectacle. cause Williams had stepped on play before the fumble had set throws moved the Irish into Mic­have a good season this year.
I I In fact. it seemed a come­the end line. The angry Irish the Wolverines up at the ND 36, higan territory. whereupon the But. hey, we came out with a vic­I from-behind upset win over the settled for a Carney field goal and it appeared that Michigan Wolverine defense, which gave tory and that's a credit to our 
l 
number-three-ranked Wol­that fixed the final margin at 24-coach 'Bo' Schembechler's team up only eight touchdowns all last men." 
I 
verines was the only thing Holtz 23. had finally put the Irish away. season, tightened. But the fact that Michigan had could not pull out of his magic "You can't make the costly mis­As the clock wound down, Car­such a tough time is, no doubt. bag of tricks. On offense, there takes, penalties, and turnovers," But Perryman's fumble, which ney lined up the 45-yarder rem­a credit to Holtz and his men asI was a multitude of formations said Holtz. "We didn't get anyth-was caused by nosetackle Mike iniscent of I980 when Irish well.
I that dazzled the Michigan 
~ defense and allowed the Irish to roll up 455 net yards to the Wol­
i 
I 
verines' 393. On defense, thereI was a unit that did not quit after I Michigan scored 14 points in six I seconds, and instead shut out the Wolverines the rest of the 
way.l ''I've never been prouderofany
I 
team than I am of this group,"

I 
said Holtz. "They didn't quit even

I 
though they had reason to. In­

I 
stead they bounced right back."

I I 
That the Irish didn't pack their bags and leave moments into the second half certainly says a lot about their character. Leading 
14-I 0 going into the intermis­sion, they saw Michigan strike twice early to take a command­ing 24-14 lead. 
The big blow to Notre Dame came after the Wolverines had marched 78 yards in I 2 plays for a touchdown on the opening drive of the second half. The en­suing kick off was high and landed short. and when Notre Dame return man Aaron Robb hesitated, it bounced back towards Michigan's Doug Mal­lory, who smothered it at the Irish 27-yard line. 
Wolverine quarterback Jim Harbaugh ( 15-of-23, 239 yards) then hit Morris in stride down the sideline for a quick touchdown that seemed to doom Notre Dame's chances for victory. 
The Irish offense battled back, however, behind quarterback Steve Beuerlein, who had a fine day in going 2 1-of-33 for 263 yards and a touchdown. And when Beuerlein nipped a three­yard shot-put pass over the top to tight end Joel Williams for a touchdown, the Irish suddenly found themselves within four points of the Wolverines. 
That the Irish could have been down only three -Carney's at­tempt for the extra point sailed wide -would prove to be fatal later. 
Yet the Irish got many more chances to score, thanks to a tenacious defensive effort over the fourth period. . Senior linebacker Mike Kovaleski led the way I I 7 tackles on the day), while teammates Wes Pritchett, Robert Banks. and Cedric Figaro each made big plays. 
"We didn't do anything special lin shutting down the Wol­verines)." said Figaro. "We just went out there and made up our minds to stop them. It is the same team from last year but now we are more together." 
After Williams' touchdown catch, the Irish offense resumed moving the ball as it had all af­ternoon /Notre Dame did not need to punt once on the <lay) and had several good chances. But critical mistakes -a fumble 

CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS 
BOW TO CREATE I COUNTRY 
WITHOUT I KING 
THE BIGGEST POLITICAL STORY OF THE LAST 200 YEARS 
on the CBS Network, Part
Nations have different 
II of the life of George
strengths. Military or indus-
Washington: The Forging
trial might. Mineral wealth. 
of a Nation.
Population for some, sheer 
Based on James
size for others. History 
Thomas Flexner's Pulit­
teaches us, however, that 
zer Prize biography, it
character survives, princi­
ples last. The government of 
shows how Washington 
proved that a country could 
the United States of America 
GEOB,.GE WASHINGION
*'THE FOI{GING OFA Wtf.TION * 
Sunday and Monday, September 21 and 22 on CBS Barry Bostwick and Patty Duke return in their roles as George and Martha Washington 
have a head of state who Earth and, by any measure, 
is now one of the oldest on 
was not a king. Personal surely one of the best. 
and political currents The U.S. Constitution 
swirled around him. Thorn-set forth the principles 
as1efferson's concern for in-which embody the charac­
dividual rights clashed with ter of this nation. And as 
Alexander Hamilton's sup-we near the bicentennial of 
port for a strong central gov-this great document, it is 
ernment. The French were clear: The more we under-
demanding that our new gov-stand the principles of free­
ernment take their side dom it set forth, the more 
against England. At the surely those principles will 
same time there was open endure. 
rebellion in the countryside In this spirit, General 
and bitter criticism in the Motors is proud to present, 
press. 
The principles of freedom were being test­ed by reality. And through it all, Washington's mod­erate approach to the Pres­idency was defining the role of Chief Executive for the generations to come. 
History makes perspec­tive possible. With the pres­ent and future in mind, General Motors is proud to present this period of the American past. It is human, dramatic, and without ques­tion, the biggest political story of the last 200 years. 
We hope you and your family will join us on Sun­day, September 21 and Monday, September 22 for the General Motors Mark of Excellence presentation, George Washington: The Forging of a Nation. 
This advertisement is part ofourcontinuing effi»t to give customers useful infonnation about their cars and trucks and the company that builds them. 
II 
Chevrolet • Pontiac Oldsmobile • Buick Cadillac • G M C Truck 

I 
-. 

'JI['t(Jt.cll~~----------------------------------------------------M•o•n•d•ay•.•~.p.te•m•~•r•l•5,•1•98•6•---pa•g•e..
l5 

Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

VITH VOtJR A5HtST'ANG 
VE: VILL kNOW WHO ALL ZEZE' TJtLW'[JLE: MAKeRS AAE'! 
MINIST~Y. ~OF 
DISW'UNE 
//, 


ACROSS
Campus 
1 Coin chute 5 Discolor 
7 p.m.:"An Introduction to Natural t"amily Planning", Hayes­Healy auditorium. Mr. & Mrs. Tim Fulnecky speakers, co­sponsor Univeristy Ministry. Senior Picture Sign-ups lor SMC seniors. Sept 15, 16, 17, lunch and dinner at SAGA 8 p.m.: Women United lor Justice and Peace; first meeting to l>e held in the coffeehouse of the esc. 7 p.m.: Transfer Club meeting; 224 Cushing September 16. 7 p.rn.: Those 21 and over interesting in working Fall Fest lker Gardens; Haggar College Cntr Rrn 304. Mandatory. 8 p.rn.: Thomas More Society general meeting. CSC. 3:30 p.m. -5:00 p. rn.: Computer Minicourses. Introduction to Kermit rm I 15 Computing Center. Time Sharing Optional, part I, rm 23 Computing Center. To register, call Betty at 2.39-5604. 3:30. p.m.: Aen>'rnechanical Engineering Seminar. Rm 356 ritzpatrick Hall. 4:00 p.m.: "Skills for Academic Success, Session I. Series II; also Wednesday, 911 7, Session II, Series II; and Friday, 9119, Session Ill. Series II. Rrn I 70 LeMans Hall. 7:00 p.m.: 'The Third Man." Monday Night Film Series I. Annenberg Aud. 9:00 p.rn.: "Reckless Moment." Monday Night Film Series II. Annengerg Aucl.  10 Defect 14 Decant 15 Large group 16 Rajah's lady 17 Contra 18 Disagreeable 20 Devotee of the modem 21 Askew 22 Mr. Newton 23 Reputation 25 Sword feature 27 Trench digger 29 Bars in a way 33 Woody for one 3411oilo's island 35 Actress Merkel 36 Equipment 37 Shakespeare contemporary 38 Indian palm 39 Circle segment 40 Tribe VIP 41 Run to Gretna 01986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/15/86All Rights ReservedGreen 42 Goes on the town 5 Rain 44 Floats with 6 Travel the current 7 Bohemian 45 Charles' dog 8 Altar answer 46 Turk. standard 9 Ship-shaped 47 Fixed look clock 50 Lounging 10 Chills garment 11 Zhivago's love 52 Pindaric 12 Square pillar 55 At a disad­13 Neighbor of vantage Minn. 58 Dill old style 19 Sleek 59 Eve's son 21 Verily 60 Throw back 24 Mimic 61 Singe 25 Distinction 62 Scratch out 26 "-Dream, 63 Intervening Can't I?" in law 27 Heroic tales 64 Combustible 28 Watchful heap 29 Boot fastener 40 Ruhr city SO Lacerates 30 Broke 41 Mr. Gardner 51 Portent DOWN 31 Not suitable 43 Word of honor 53 Letter starter 1 Team of horses 32 Binds 44 Work super­54 Raison d'­2 Sole 34 lt. city ficially 56 Prepare for 3 Inappropriate 37 Ink spot 47 Fly high battle 4 Before cycle 38 "It's a sin 48 Band bress 57 Ms Remick or pod to tell-" 49 Sweetsop 58 Uraeus  
CANCER. PleaseNOT supportKNOWING THE RISKS AMERICAN CANCERIS YOUR SOCIETY®GREATEST RISK.  
HOLD THAT SUMMERTANII  Notre Dame < Fighting Irish  
DO IT ALL  --::""'Nov. 28 ·Dec. I 4 daysI 3 nights 
+condition in booth  
+tan in beds  Tour package includes round trip airfare via United  
+ relax on massage bed  Airlines, hotel accomodations at Los Angeles Marriott, football game ticket, airport and game transportation,  
call us at 277-7026'MN...HAW& J.M.S. PLAZA  an tour escort. preventbirth $599/pereon defects  
4609 Grape Road Mlshawct~ka  SupportCall Sportrek/Libertyville Travel March of Dimes 1-800-221-GAME 312-362-0222  

Monday, September 15, 1986 -page 16 

S~orts 
Michigan gets breaks; spoils Holtz debut, 24-23 

Upset hopes fall short in memorable classic 
By MARTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports fclitor 
Lou Holtz brought Notre Dame football back with a vengeance Saturday. 
But that infamous queen of Notre Dame Stadium -Lady Luck was nowhere to be found among the throng at the Welcome Back Celebration. 
She stood up the first-year coach and his inspired players and his elated fans, and allowed the Michigan Wolverines to es­cape with a stunning 24-23 vic­tory in the 1986 season opener for both schools. 
Dame Fortune, alas, missed a classic football game. 
From the opening play, when Notre Dame linebacker Cedric Figaro caught Wolverine running back Jamie Morris behind the line of scrimmage, to the last when Notre Dame kicker John Carney missed the 45-yard field goal that would have won it this one was special. 
The game was one for the great Michigan-Notre Dame rivalry, one for the 59,075 fans in attendance, many of whom screamed themselves hoarse chanting, 'Lou', 'Lou', to their new coach, and one for the Irish players themselves, a group that found out they may not be the ugly ducklings they feared they were. 
"There are an awful lot of sad young men in our lockerroom right now," said Holtz after the game. "Yet I think they'll look back ten years from now and re­member the fun they had in the 
see CLASSIC, page 14 

Loss cannot detract from fine ND showing 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Assistant Sports fclitor 
This was the moment. 
With I 7 seconds left in the game and trailing, 24-23, Notre Dame lined up for one last try. With the ball on Michigan's 28, Dan Sorensen knelt at the 35, ready to receive John Grieb's snap. 
This was the moment. The Irish had driven 46 yards in I :20 after recovering Michigan's only fumble of the contest. Memories of that afternoon six years ago when the wind stopped, and Harry Oliver answered the yet another miracle, roused the hopes of the packed house which came to see Lou Holtz begin his reign as Irish head coach. 
John Carney stood ready. His career mark from this distance was 15-of-16. Another Irish legend was in the making. The field goal would seal a win aml give Holtz his first win as the Irish mentor. 
Grieb snapped to Sorensen, a little high, but Sorensen got it clown. Carney stepped up, swung his foot. .. 
And it was over. The kick saile<l off to the left. The 59,075 and national television audience had 


Michigan players Garland Rivers ( 13) and Andree Mcintyre (54) try to block Irish kicker John Carney's fourth-quarter field-goal at­tempt as Joel Williams (left) and John Grieb 
The rotten luck of the Irish? 

By MARTY BURNS A<;sistant Sports fclitor 
Was he in or not? 
That was the question everyone was asking Saturday afternoon at Notre Dame Stadium after an official negated an apparent Notre Dame touchdown on the grounds that Irish receiver Joel Williams had stepped on the back line of the end zone. 
in the fourth 
t
Ttll'W,,,·,u·t ,JjM·VTi;Jc(o 
quarter with the Irish trailing Michigan. 24-20. After driving from its own 30-yar<l line, Notre Dame found itself facing a third-ami-goal from the Wolverine eight-yard line. Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein rolled left and saw Williams streaking along the back of the goal. 
Beuerlein flipped the ball past Michigan defender Ivan Hicks and into the hands of Wil­liams, who held the ball high over his head in 
see WILLIAMS, page 13 

McCourt's two goals key 3-2 Irish victory 
By KELLY TOWNSEND .'iporh Writn 
Comin~ off a 2-0 loss to In­diana t'riday Isee related story on pane 13), Notre Dame head sot­cer coach Dennis Grace was looking for his team to come l>ack with a stroll~! performance yesterday against Michigan. 
While Grace clicl not f.Jel his wish. his team <lid get its fourth victory of the young season, a 3-2 win over the Wolverines. Irish striker l~ruce 'Tiger' McCourt's two goals, including the game· winner in the second hall, propelled Notre Dame to the win. 
"Although we won I was not happy with the play," said Grace. "The guys didn't play with their heads in the game. They seemed cauf.jht up in other thittns." 
Grace prol>al>ly would exempt his star striker McCourt from that assessment. The G-0, I 70­poun<l junior played a line wunc from start to finish, challenginH scores brought his season total to I I, tops on the Noire Dame squad. 
Sternl>er~~ meanwhile, was in­stnuncntal in more than just the one assist lo McCourt. The soph­omore tnidficlder consistently tnoved the ball atl<l his team downfidd, enabling Irish keeper tfugh l~reslin to take a nnteh­needecl breather between Mic­hinan rushes. 
l~rcslin, who contitHicd his ex­cellent play this season by regis­tering I I saves, got help from winnl>ack Steve Lowney ami stopper John Guignon. Guignon also contributed off(:nsivcly, su>ring the first Irish goal of the wune on a penalty kick· in the first half. 
McCourt's 11rst goal came soon after the penalty kick. On a fast drive started deep in Irish terri­tory, Randy Morris saw McCourt in the clear and sent the ball down. McCourt took conlrol and fired it into the Michigan goal. 

The Notre Dame soccer team split a pair  his story at right,  while Pete Gegen recaps  the Michigan team ami capitaliz­ His second goal came shortly  
of contests this weekend, beating Michigan,  F·ri day's tough loss in his story on  page  inH Oil nomt passes frotn Randy  into the second half. This litm:  
3-2, and losing to Indiana, 2-0. Kelly Towilsen<l has details of Sunday's victory in  13.  Morris ami .Joe Sternberg to add two noals lor the Irish. The two  see McCOURT, page 13  




