

VOL. XX, NO. 123 THURSDAY, APRIL 10, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Malone suggests application of faith to all areas of life 
By BUD LUEPKE According to Hesburgh, served as vice-president, has now preparing a letter on the role and "the autonomy of the Staff Reporter Malone gave "the best talk of the published pastoral letters on such of women in the Chruch which, Catholic university." Hesburgh seminar." issues as peace and the economy. he said, would not be published accompanied Malone on a trip "It's clear that for anyone to Malone, who Hesburgh Malone said these "are examples untill988. three years ago to Rome to live faithfully, he or she needs to described as the leader of the of ways in which bishops should Hesburgh, who said he has discuss with the Pope these issues apply faith to all areas of life," American Catholic hierarchy, relate Catholic social teaching to known Malone for the past 30 of Catholic education which are said Bishop James Malone, presi­said that American Catholics contemporary issues." years, said the bishop is "a great presently under scrutiny by the 
dent of the National Conference should participate in social Malone said the conference was supporter of Catholic Higher " Vatican. of Catholic Bishops (NCCB). policy. "The continuing efforts of a 

Speaker process begins in autumn
Malone, the featured speaker at teaching leadership is to show the this year's commencement exer­relevance of Catholic teaching to cises, said he considered address­contemporary issues," said By BUD LUEPKE nominations which he considered on the list to Hesburgh. "... I ing Notre Dame's graduating class Malone. "Believers, hearing this Staff Reporter and then passed on to the Board review it and submit their top to be a "distinct priviledge." articulation, can examine ways in of Trustees. The board has the choice to the Board of Trustees," 
University President Father which (they) can respond to these The choice of Bishop James final say in selecting the speaker. Hesburgh said. Theodore Hesburgh, besides issues," he added. Malone for commencement Hesburgh said comedian Bill noting Malone's prominent stan­speaker is the result of a process The board, the colleges, and the Cosby, whose name was submit­ding in the Catholic Church, said Malone said that the NCCB which began early last fall, said student class offices all played a ted by the student offices, had that Malone was chosen because tries to link the ancient faith to University President Father role in compiling the list of possi­been invited, but Cosby turned it of a speech Malone gave earlier contemporary problems so that Theodore Hesburgh. ble speakers. These groups held down because of other com­this fall in a seminar held in the faith "comes alive in the personal conferences to discuss possible mitments. law school on religion and life" of American Catholics. Hesburgh said Malone's name honorary degree recipients. Final Malone's name came from the politics. The NCCB, for which Malone came from a list of about 30 recommend<$ions: aw submitted board of trustees. 
The Ob.erver /fripp 
Supporters of Father Basil van Rensburg join share the suffering of his fellow South Africans him in prayer outside the Center for Social Con­and to encourage the University to divest. Story at cerns yesterday. Van Rensburg began a fast to right. 

Faculty Senate to petition trustees to stop investment in South Africa 
By DAN McCULLOUGH The motion was written by blacks, and yet they sustain the Senior StaffReporter Associate Professor Frank Connol­regime by supplying technology ly, of the mathematics department and, most importantly, by lending 
The Notre Dame Faculty Senate and was based upon a survey of legitimacy to this unjust economic voted last night to petition the Notre Dame faculty. The results of .order." university's Board of Trustees to the survey, which were released Finally, "An announcement now begin divesting its investments in earlier this week, showed 77 .l per­of a divestment in the future can American corporations that do cent of respondents agreed that the have an important symbolic effect. 

.business in South Africa. Senate has a responsibility to raise It can move other institutions to ac­
The 28 to 2 vote, with 3 this issue with the Board. tion, and it can create pressure abstentions, passed a motion along The motion listed three prin­against the policies of the South to the board to announce now a ciples upon which the Notre Dame African regime." process at divestment. . This apartheid policy should be based. The survey, upon which the mo­divestment would begin no later First, the motion said, "Notre tion was based, said 72.6 percent of than January, 1988. Dame cannot remain indefinitely as the respondents agreed that Notre 

"This process would cease only if an investor in a morally unaccep­Dame should avoid complicity the South African regime ended table order." witht the "morally unacceptable apartheid and provided a franchise It continued, "American cor­order" in South Africa. 66.9 per-to South Africans of all races," the porations in South Africa are com­motion said. paratively enlightened employers of see SENATE, page 4 
Divestment urged by visiting priest in hunger strike 
By TRIPP BALTZ America's 55 million Roman 
News Editor Catholics. 
"Many look to Notre Dame for 
Father. Basil van Rensburg, a guidance on difficult issues, in­visiting priest from Cape Town, cluding divestment," Van Rensburg South Africa, said today he would said. begin a fast calling for the Universi­ty to divest from companies that do Van Rensburg said he did not business in his homeland. wish to embarrass the University or 
Before a group of 60 to 65 people the administration by his action, outside the Center for Social Con­but "Rather, I wish to encourage a 
cerns, Peter Walshe, director of African studies, announced Van Rensburg will live indefinitely on water alone. 
"I will continue the fast as long as my medical advisors say I am in good health," Van Rensburg said, adding that as a priest he is not at liberty to let his health deteriorate. 
As he read from a prepared state­ment made available to the crowd, Van Rensburg said he was ."com­mitting a public and official act of treason as consigned in South African law and will have to ac­count for myself on my return to South Africa." Van Rensburg said 

his fast is small in comparison to 
what black South Africans suffer 
Father Basil van Rensburg
every day. Van Rensburg said he prays "the spiritual and prayerful movementLord will send the Holy Spirit to be that is concerned to live out Gospelpresent at the meeting of the Board values and so identify with the poor of Trustees on the 9th and lOth of and oppressed of South Africa." 

May." 

Supporters placed their hands onVan Rensburg said he is fasting Van Rensburg's head and joinedat Notre Dame "because, unex­him in prayer as he began his fastpe~tedly, I found myself on this with a glass of Perrier.
campus." The educator said he had "Tastes good," Van Rensburgplanned to go to Rome or Britain said after finishing the drink. 

on his sabbatical but decided to Margarita Rose, chairman of thecome to Notre Dame instead Anti-Apartheid Network, said thatbecause he was impressed by members of the network are askedreports on the University's Center to participate with Van Rensburg.

for Continuing Formation in "Needless to say, it will be difficult Ministry. 

for Father (Van Rensburg). Cer­
"I was also conscious of Notre tainly this is not a time to be alone. Dame's standing in the Catholic Rose said "No one is expected to world of learning. Moreover, it has fast for more than one day at a become clear to me that Notre time," adding that prayers would Dame's decisions have effects be needed to guide the Trustees to beyond the campus among choose divestment. 
r --~-~-------­
The Observer Thursday, AprillO, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
The St. Joe County Grand Jury hearing held 
Tuesday concluded deliberation and has made no indictments at this time in regard to the Saint Mary's student who gave birth to a baby found dead Feb. 28 in a LeMans Hall bathroom trash can, according to Michael Barnes, the prosecuting attorney for the St. Joseph's County. Barnes said at this point, with the current available evidence, no indictments were made. -The Observer 
Arthur M. Grubert, director of International Stu­dent Affairs and assistant to the director of the Foreign Study Pro­grams at Notre Dame, has been awarded a fulbright grant to study in Germany, according to an announcement . by the Board of Foreign Scholarships and the United States Information Agency. Grubert will use the grant to study and observe educational developments and international education in the Federal Republic of Germany under the Project for Educational Experts. -The Observer 
Father Frank Bredeweg, a Notre Dame alumnus, was inaugurated president of the University of Saint Thomas in Houston Friday. A Detroit native, Bredeweg received his Notre Dame master's degree in theology in 1969. He is the 37th graduate of Notre Dame currently serving as a college or university presi­dent. -The Observer 
Sally Ann walker' a Saint Mary's student from Bristol, Ind., has won the $300 third place prize for her essay in the "Pathway to Nuclear Disarmament" contest. Notre Dame student Sam Siewart of Danville, Calif., won a $50 special recognition award in the contest, which was conducted by Alternative World Foundation, Inc., Goshen, Ind. -The Observer 

Of Interest 
Seyyed Hossein Nasr' holder of the Chair of Islamic Studies at George Washington University, will speak from a non-Western perspective on the consequences of the Enlighten­ment tonight at 8 in the Memorial Library auditorium. -The Observer. 
A Vietnamese benefit lunch will be held on the patio of the Center for Social Concerns today from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. -The Observer 
Photography and artifacts from Central Africa will be featured at an arts festival tonight at 7 at the Haggar Col­lege Center. Art, music, poetry and free food from Zaire and Lesotho will be part of the exhibition sponsored by RAST A. -The Observer 

"Peacemaking c·t·I tzen in a Warmaking State" is the title of a lecture to be presented by peace activist Daniel Berrigan tonight at 7:30 in the student lounge of the Law School. -The Observer 
Anthropologist Laura Nadar of the University of California at Berkley will give a lecture entitled "Science as a Social Problem," tonight at 8 in the Galvin Life Science auditorium. All are welcome. -The Observer 


Weather 
Partly cloudy is the best that can be expected today with highs near 50. Tomorrow, the sun should shine with the mercury rising to the mid 50s. -The Observer 

MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
•· VqdanM A t1cot Dialift FOODS 
SHAWilitMA A MUOBDERA • BABA GHENOUJ HOM MUS-FELAFEL. TBBBOULI SAI.AD 
SOUTH IENO • UBANESil STYLI 

• Pita S'-lfed ~ GYirOS 
•CHU,IltfuJ Putriea • Turltialt Co(/~e 288-5639 
Tuea • Sot 6:10PM -9:30PM COMPLETE C"ATEitiNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES A BANQUET!' I07.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
Wygant Floral CO.Inc. 
·"C(!Qowehg {ph aQQ oceagLo"~ 
Come in and Browse • . 

327 Lincoutway • 232-3354 
~r::,'0~ Student Government----. ~,o<f'o ASSISTANT TREASURER 
'r'<l~ available in Treasurer's Office 2nd Floor Lafortune Must presently be a Sophmore Accounting Major Applications due 
if you have any questions call
Friday, April 11 , 4:00 PM 
'Becca at 239-7417 
GALLO VARIETALS 

Rooo, Chonln llonc, French Colombonl 


MARTINI & ROSSI VERMOUTH 
3!~ 

E&J BRANDY 
&!! 
CEWCADORO 



17!.~ 
FRANGELICO 

10!~ 
SUN COUNTRY COOLERS 
YOUR CHOICE 4 PK. OR 2 LITRE 
1299 
PRICES GOOD THRU 
4-12-86 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
REG. & LIGHT 
5!• 
Preseason Specla' 
BUDWEISER KEGS ~ 


32!!ni0 
BEAM'S BLEND 
8!~ 
TEN HIGH BOURBON 
9!5! 
CLAN MacGREGOR SCOTCH 
10~5~ 
BURNETT'S GIN 



9!5! 
BACARDIRUM 
LIGHT & DARK 

McGUIRES CREAM 
6!~ 
GALLO 
$4•.! 
DRAMBUIE 

13!~ 
MOLSON 
GOLDEN, BEER, OR ALE 
' 


will soon be at Notre Dame. Max will first show a documentary film ofthe Born in the U.S.A. tour (made by 

"Margaret! He's doing it! He's doing It!" 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his 
LOCATED IN THE LOBBYOF SOUTH DINING HALL 
The Observer 

SPRING'S A-POPPIN' 

experiences with Bruce on the road. And 
finally, Max Weinberg will jam with the 
finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen 
from the students at the Nazz competition. 
Tickets on sale at Ticket Stub for $3.00 Will take place April12 at 8:00pm at Stepan Center 
MAX is coming Aprill2. 
Sponsored by the 
....________Student Activities Board--; 
The Limited Edition Deli Hours Mon. thru Fri. 8:00AM -IO:OOPM 

Sat. and Sun. ll:OOAM-lO:OOPM 
FEATURING: 
-CHIPS, COOKIES, CANDY -NEWSPAPERS & MAGAZINES -POP, MILD, JUICE, YOGURT -TOBACCO PRODUCTS -GROCERIES, LAUNDRY AIDS, 
BAKING SUPPLIES -FRESH BAKED GOODS FROM OUR CAMPUS BAKERY--COOKIES, DANISH, BROWNIES, PIES, CROISSANTS, MUFFINS -ORDER YOUR BIRTHDAY CAKES HERE OR CALL 239-7518 or 7859 
......... 
Thursday, AprillO, 1986 -page 3 
The Far Side Gary Larson 
© 1986 Universal Press Syndicale 

Suntan Contest •Consistency •Presentation •Contrast $50.00 Cash Prize 
Also Sunburn Contest Thurs., April1 0 

*UNBELIEVABLE SPECIALS* 
All 2L Pop $1.09 REG St.49 
3;4LB Plain or BBQ Chips $1.00 REG $1.89 
Hand-Packed Bonnie Doon Ice Cream! Pints-.95 Quarts -1.50 Half Gallons -2.20 
Rice Krispie Bars -30 ¢ REG.60¢ 
Giant Snickers -55 ¢ Bubble Yum-30¢ 


Get in on the action! 
==nae~ 
News department 
Is looking for dedicated students with a friendly voice to assign and verity stories over the phone. Must work well with peopiel Apply for 
•Day Editor Typist also needed 

Contact Lynne Strand by 4pm Thursday at the Observer office 3rd floor LaFortune 239-5303 



BROUGHT TO YOU BY UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
--------------------=-----'------------------------..Ji 
---------~---------~--------------­
The Observer Thursday, Aprill0, 1986 -page 4 
Children joining ranks of homeless in U.S. 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
Copy Editor 
The ranks of the U.S. urban homeless are rapidly expanding to include poor children and their families, according to New York City Homeless Coalition member Robert Hayes. 
Hayes said that a "radical repudiation" of government hous­ing policy and a "squeezing out" of urban poor from inner-city neighborhoods by affluent redevelopment is causing the hous­ing shortage responsible for the "explosion of homeless families" during the past 18 months. 
"The face of the homeless is literally the face of a child," said Hayes, asserting that the stereotype of the older mentally-ill or han­dicapped homeless is inaccurate. 
According to Hayes, one out of four U.S. children live in poverty. "Poverty is becoming a function of children and often single-parent families," he said. Notre Dame could advance the cause of the homeless poor through opening a building to area homeless or lobbying for government action, said Hayes, whose lecture was part of Peace With Justice Week. 
Hayes said President· Reagan's 98-percent cutback of .funds for 




Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
cent agreed that the threat of divestiture is a tool of moral pressure against South Africa. 
Before the vote, Paul Conway, associate professor of finance, voiced concern that the survey did not represent enough faculty opi­nion. Of the 930 surveys sent our, 281 were returned. 
But Professor John Yoder of the theology department noted the poll had been sent with a packet of many enclosure and that no publicity encouraged returns. He said about 30 percent was a rather good response. 
A presentation by the Senate's benefits committee followed the discussion and vote on the South African issue. 
1hlncsto you... it works ... for 
poor housing is "not a conservative promotes homelessness, according shift, but a radical repudiation." to Hayes. 
State and local government is "Somebody once said the only also resistant to housing aid, accor­thing worse than slums is having no ding to Hayes. "Nothing interested slum, and there is some truth to New York City officials less than that," said Hayes. relief for the poor homeless," he Hayes said this redevelopment 
said. has been "actually encouraged, aid­
Hayes, a lawyer, also recounted ed and abetted by city officials" for his successful court battle for "the higher tax revenues. right of shelter" with New York Peace With Justice Week conin­State. 
cides with the American Associa­Hayes said higher transportation tion of Catholic Colleges and 
costs started the urban trend called Universities' national focus on "gentrification" which replaces peace. The Center for Social Con­slums with high-priced ''yuppie" cerns is sponsoring the week's housing that slum residents are events. 
unable to afford. Hayes · spoke yesterday at the Over time, this trend creates a Center for Social Concerns on the shortage of low-cost housing and plight of the urban homeless. 
...y$6. 
277-2151

Right now. you can get the 
1835 South Bend Ave. ONE for only six bucks! Plaza 23 Center A th1ck 12" pizza w1th pepperono, double cheese and extra thick crust and we guarantee delivery in less 
than 30 minutes. So call Domono's Pizza and ask for the THURSDAY THICK ONE. DOMINO'S 
hearty THURSDAY THICK 
PIZZA

Our dnvers carry less lhan $20.00. lomoted delivery area. No DELIVERS® coupon necessary. Not valid 

FREE.

woth any other oHer 


AU. 
OFUS 
Unitedway
• 

Kramer 

vs\ 
ramer\ 

Sponsored by: 
Knights of Columbus DATE-April9, 10 TIME-7, 9, 11 P.M. PLACE-E.G. Aud. ADMISSION-1.50 Knights Admitted free! 
ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now.
CLUB REGISTRATION locations are chosen by lottery. 
Ail clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
Forms are now available for: 
l. Registration 
2. 
Funding 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 


Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS -APRIL 18, 1986 


The Observer 
Thursday, AprillO, 1986-page 5 
Freshman lacrosse attacker 
Olmstead shows great potential 
p,~~~ 
kenneth Kiesler, Conductor 

SOUTH BEND SYMPHONIC CHOIR NOTRE DAME GLEE CLUB &CHORALE 
Featuring Lorna Haywood, soprano; Elizabeth Mannion, mezzo­soprano; Tanio di Poolo, tenor ond William Rhodes, bass 
SATURDAY., APRIL 12, 8:15 P.M. 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
Adults '18-'1 0 Students '14-'7 
2nd Balcony Student Rush Seats $4 
"Concert Comments" 7:15P.M. 
f_t:}1i_~= 

(219) 232-6343 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, now almost midway through its season, is 3-2 and looking forward to the rest of the year with hope for a strong finish. Irish head coach Rich O'Leary can look even farther forward than that, three years far­ther to be exact, largely due to the presence of John Olmstead. 
The freshman has received a good deal of playing time this season and has responded by scor­ing four goals in five games. O'Leary understands the amount of his young player's potential and says that experience in the form of varsity action is the most effective way to get at it. 
"John has a great deal of maturi­ty for a freshman," said the sixth­year head coach. "He's playing out of his high school position because we needed IVOre attackers than midfielders. He's worked hard to improve his game, and it's showed. 

John works with a lot of com­posure in front of the goal, and he always seems to beat the goalie." 
Olmstead appreciates the con­fidence that O'Leary has shown in his ability, and has completely gell­ed with a team composed of many juniors and seniors. 
"So far, my transition from high school lacrosse to Notre Dame's has been pretty smooth," said Olmstead. "The coaches have been totally understanding, and they've shown me a lot of little tricks that I've used to adjust to college play. 
"Coach O'Leary doesn't hesitate to put me in during the tight spots, and that's the type of playing time I need to improve. The team is easily the best group of guys I've ever worked with. 
"I can see how the upperclassmen might be upset at seeing me play as much as I do, but I've never gotten any indication that they're (not) just trying to help me out as much as they can. A lot of my improve­ment just comes from doing what I 
The Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents: 


A contemporary adaptation of the ancient popular devotion "The Stations of the 
Cross" exploring the fourteen "stations" 
along Christ's path to his resurrection. 
The Wav of the Cross 
According to the Gospel of Mark 
Adaptation and Lyrics by 
Georgia Weber Bain 
and Reginald F. Bain, Sr. 
Music by Reginald F. Bain, Jr. 
Washington Hall 8:10PM April17, 18, 19 and 24, 25, 26 
General Admission $4 
Group rates available 
Call (219) 239-5957 


AUGUSTA, Ga. -Tradition in the Masters, at least as overpower­ing as the beauty of the settmg, is fac,ing a. chl\llen~e from a b;mc;l of fiercely competitiVe yotu1g niert, some of whom had never even seen the Augusta National Golf Club before. 

"We're a new breed," said Dan Forsman, a winner on the PGA tour earlier this season who will make his first Masters start today on a course that once belonged to the likes of Jack Nicklaus and Ar­nold Palmer, and before them, Sam Snead and Ben Hogan. 
"We are not afraid to tee it up with the established players and go head to head," said Forsman, one of a group of young stars who have, over the last few years, began 
-to supplement some of the game's more familiar names. 
He is among those to be con­sidered a contender in the 50th Masters, the first of the year's four major tournaments. 
"They've showed they can win," Andy Bean said of the upstarts. "With the level of competition we have on the tour now, with the ex­perience they get from the college programs, they're ready to win when they join the tour." 
The select international field in­cludes Scott Verplank and nine other amateurs, along with 78 pro­fessionals, including such new breed players as Bob Tway, Donnie Hammond and Kenny Knox, all winners chis year and all making their first appearance in golrs an­nual spring rites. 

EMC CORPORATION 
EMC Corporation will be on campus interviewing Monday, April14, at Memorial Library. 
EMC Corporation is a high technology manufacturer and marketer of high performance computer peripherals serving the super-mini computer market. 
We are looking for additional sales people for our domestic sales force. We are currently seeking young, aggressive individuals pursuing a career in high technology sales. 
Everyone WelcomeI 

see the more experienced players do." 
Olmstead, who has started three of the last five games the Irish have played thus far, attributes part of his success to his early recognition that the college game would be, to say the least, different from his high school career. 
"I knew when I got here that the lacrosse would be more physical and much faster than before," said Olmstead, "so I really tried to get myself into shape. But I didn't ex­pect to play as much as I have this early, so my physical condition is more important. I'd like to become quicker and to become better at spotting the open man earlier. I guess those are my personal goals at this point." 
Olmstead is happy to be involved with the Irish lacrosse program and hopes the team can put a string of wins together leading up to the postseason play. 
"It's been a lot of pressure," said Olmstead, who led the Irish in scor­ing during last fall's Chicago tour­nament, "but it's been even more fun. We played pretty well in Virginia (over break), and I think we've got the potential to do some great things this year." 
O'Leary is expecting great things from Olmstead for the next three years. 
"John will definitely be a vital part of our program in the future," said O'Leary. "All we want is for him to expand his great natural ability into pure lacrosse form." 
He could be the man to watch on upcoming Irish lacrosse squads. 
Olmstead and the rest of the Irish travel to Ohio for two games this weekend. Notre Dame faces Mount Union at 3:30p.m. on Friday and Kenyon College at I p.m. Satur­day. The next Irish game will be Saturday, April 19, against peren­nial power Denison. The game will be at I :30 p.m. on Cartier Field. 
New breed of golfers at Masters 
Associated Press 


The Observer Thursday, AprillO, 1986-page 6 
A Women's 

Bookstore Basketball cap­tains' meeting will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Little Theater in LaFortune. Schedules and rules will be distributed and the $5 registration fee will be collected for those who have not paid. Tomor­row is the deadline for the fee. For more information call Mary Sheridan at 2930 of Melissa War­nke at 3433. 
Bookstore 
continued from page 8 

screamed back "----the test." Seem­ingly inspired by this speech, his team, Dave's Heavy Towing, went on to win, 25-23. Lombardi look out, there is a new speech maker in town. 
The second instance occurred when Chicks Are Still Dumb faced the Nads. Early in the game, Dave Twohy, playing for Chicks Are Still Dumb, injured his hip. While waiting for the ambulance, Twohy, lying on his back, told the guys not to give up. Following Twohy's removal from the court, the Nads, in a show of sportsmanship, decid­ed to sit one player and continue the game as a four-on-four contest. The Nads eventually won the game, 21-11. 
Two more teams were dis­qualified. One · team was dis­qualified because it had no current Notre Dame students. All the players were Notre Dame alumni. The other disqualification came out when a student was caught playing for two different teams. At the pre­sent time, only one of the teams has been officially disqualified. 
In the Nads victory, Tony Casieri grabbed 22 rebounds and Dan Genreau grabbed 16 for a combin­ed total of 38. The hot shooter of the day was Michael Shim who shot 0-for-12 for Mag and the Nipple Cippers in a losing effort. 
Ranked teams playing today are WBBS with Ed Smerciak and Mr. Coffee and the Non-Dairy Creamers. WBBS with Ed Smer­ciak plays The Children of Earth Dog on Stepan Court 3 at 5:30p.m. Mr. Coffee and the Non-Dairy Creamers face Horny But Moral on Stepan Court 6 at 6:15p.m. 
Trotters 
continued from page 8 
popularized the fast break, slam dunk, weave pattern and the fancy passing now commonly associated with the NBA. In those early years, the Trotters carried the new pro league, often playing doubleheaders with the fledgling league's teams to boost their atten­dance. 
But now with players like David Rivers abounding in the college ranks and the NBA filled with the likes of Dominique Wilkins, the Trotters aren't as innovative as they once were. But with some of the plays and routines that the Trotter run, Austin says the NBA and the Globetrotters can't be compared. 
"We can do anything those guys (in the NBA) can do," says Austin. "In fact, we can do more. It takes a lot of practice to do the things we do. There are things they just can't do, and they'll tell you that. We're professionals on one level, they're on another. There's no com­parison." 
Austin admits that the Globetrot­ters schedule of 150 games and the accompanying life on the road can be tough, but he says that he's do­ing something that he enjoys. 
"You know, all my life I dreamed about playing for a team that wins every game, and here I am," Austin notes. "It happened, I love what I do and it fits my personality. I en­joy making people happy and the razzle-dazzle aspect. And I can give them my best game." 
Tomorrow Night 
8:00P.M. 

The Observer Thursday, April_IO, 1986-page 7 



Belles track scores big upset, defeats Goshen and Defiance 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's track and field captured first place in eight events to solidly defeat Goshen and De­fiance Colleges at a meet on Tues­day. 
The Belles totaled 80 points at the competition, placing them ahead of both schools, which had 55 and 33 points, respectively. 
The team's performance was a definite improvement over last weekend's competition at Man­chester College, according to Belles head coach Jean Kerich. 
"We beat two teams that had beaten us at the Invitational, so we were very pleased with the results," she said. "That's the first time we've ever beaten both Goshen and De­fiance." 
Among the first-place finishers 
for the  Belles  was  Cass  Pearl,  a  
junior,  who  ran  the  400-meter  
hurdles  in  1:13.6,  a  new  school  

record. Pearl also took first place in the 100-meter hurdles with a time of 17.47. 
In the 1500-meter run, Cathy Kennedy, a sophomore finished in 
Celebrate LifeI 

5:19.5 for first place, while Patty Morris, a freshman, took fourth. 
Freshman Theresa Rice ran the 400-meter dash in 65.3 to capture first place, while junior Anne Bian­co finished the race in third place with a time of 70.8. 
Saint Mary's claimed ·first, se­cond and third places in the 800­meter dash. Kennedy ran the race in 2:35.1 for first, followed by senior Mary Luneen with a time of 
2:37.7 and Rice with a time of 2:43.7. 
Freshman Kelly O'Brien ran the 100-meter dash in 14.2 for second place, and freshman Missy Bailey and sophomore Stephanie Duke took third and fourth places, respectively. 
O'Brien also placed second in the 200-meter dash with a time of 30.5. Bailey took fourth place in the same race. 
In the 5,000-meter race, Mariclaire Driscoll, a junior, finished in second place with a time of 21:04. Driscoll also placed se­cond in the 3,000-meter race, followed by freshman Lisa Tugman who came in third. The two ran the 
Help the 
dp 
March of Dimes 
We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
c:oatac:u, s••••e• 
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show your I.D. and receive 
20'Jr. OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&c:ladiag Speciale 
~ ProfessionalVtsion 
~ w  ASSOCIATES  
1635 N. Ironwood 277-1161  1341 Portage 234-2400 Martin's Shopping 
South of U.S. 23  Center  




needs 
Poster hangers and table tent 
distributors for the 1986-87 school year. If interested, please contact Janel at the SAB Office. 
239-7757 
event in 12:30.4 and 14:30.4, 
respectively. 
The Saint Mary's 400 and 1 ,600­

meter relay teams both captured 
first place in their respective events. 
The team of Bailey, Duke, O'Brien 
and freshman Lora Gill ran the 400 
relay in 56.6, while the team of 
Gill, Kennedy, Luneen and Rice 
ran the I ,600 relay in 4:33.6. 
1n the field event competition, 

freshman Beki Davis captured first 
place in the shotput with a distance 
of 29-0, while Jeannette O'Neil, 
also a freshman, took fourth place. 
Davis placed second in the discus 

with a throw of 13-9, and O'Neil 
placed fourth in the same event. 
O'Neil earned second place in the 
javelin with her 93-10 throw. 
1n the long jump, Davis took 

third place with a 13-9 effort, 
followed by Duke in fourth place. 
Bianco placed second in the triple 
jumpt with a distance of 28-9. 
The Belles' next meet is on Satur­

day when they play host to Hope 
College. The running events will 
take place at Clay High School, 
while the field events will be held at 
Angela Field. The competition is 
scheduled to begin at II a.m. 
Wilson breaks 
11th inning tie 
for Philadelphia 
Assocated Press 
CINCINNATI -Glenn Wilson 

broke a 1-1 tie with an !!th-inning 
sacrifice fly and John Russell 
followed with a two-run homer last 
night to give the Philadelphia 
Phillies a 5-3 victory over the Cin­
cinnati Reds. 
The Phillies scored four times in 

the 11th off Ted Power, 0-1, the 
third Cincinnati pitcher. Garry 
Maddox Jed off with a single and 
Juan Samuel also singled. Both 
runners advanced on Mike 
Schmidt's long fly out, and Wilson 
snapped the 1-1 tie with his fly ball 
to center. 
Baseball 
8

continued from page 
ed upon to put out the fire. 
Gleeson responded by retmng the final batter, the only man he faced, to preserve the 11-7 win. 
"I was very pleased with our hit­ting attack these past few days," said Gallo. "The return of Shields has helped tremendously." 
The Irish notched a whopping 47 hits over the past three games. John Loughran notched nine of these 47 hits in 14 attempts. 
In the second game of Tuesday's twinbill, sophomore Mike Harmon yielded three earned runs while go­ing the distance to record the vic­tory. 
Yesterday, senior Mark Watzke pitched seven innings, yielding only two runs to pick up the win. 
Notre Dame will now travel to Xavier for a twinbill Saturday and Sunday. The Irish record stands at 14-12. 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Animal House 
"The funniest film of the year." 
7:00, 9:00,11:00pm Friday, April 11th, 
$1.00 $1.00
Saturday,April 12th 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
JK!!@] T!!J[J (E!! w~ 0 
JK!!@] T!!J[J (E 1! 
Wednesday, April 9th, $ll0 ® ® Thursday ,April 1Oth ~ J1 0 ® ® 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 p.m. Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 

S~orts 
Showboat Gorilla in Bookstore, top-rated teams at Stepan today 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 
Before being captured and returned to his home, the Potawatomi Zoo, Homo Gorillus swung into action on Stepan Court 4 yesterday. Followed by a large crowd of banana-throwing crazes, Homo Gorillus lead 4 Guys in Muppet Shorts and a Gorilla against Sometimes the Best Things in Life Cost $10. 
Only moments into action, Homo Gorillus's team scored the first basket. In celebration, yellow torpedos, disguised as bananas, were hurled onto the court in an at­tempt to appease the gorilla and marne the opposition. Sometimes the Best Things in Life rebounded from this initial set back and went on to demolish the banana-loving ape and his team, 21-6. Homo Gorillus shot a memorable 1-of-7 from the field; the highest shooting percentage of an ape in Bookstore Basket ball history. Treemate Pat Murphy said that Homo Gorillus was a direct descendent of King Kong. 

"Homo Gorillus is the long-lost offspring of King Kong," said Mur­phy. "We found him shooting baskets at the Potawatomi Zoo and thought that he would dominate the boards. Today though, there was a 

Bookstore Basketball XV 
problem with the weather. Homo Gorillus was not accustomed to this environment and, as a result, his play suffered." 
Jay "Tito" Hizon, disguised as the ape, commented on the loss before being taken to the zoo. 
"UGH!!," said Homo Gorillus. That about sums it up. 
In other action, probably one of the most impressive efforts in the tournament to date was turned in by Chris "Manute Bol" Wepner in the game between 4 Real Men and the Tongue Virgin and Scintilating Inducements. Even though, Wepner's team, 4 R.M.A.T.T.V., !sot, "Manute" scored a triple dou­ble. He had 10 baskets, 11 re­bounds, and 14 blocked shots. John Gibbs scored 13 baskets and grabbed 10 rebounds while leading the Scincilating Inducements to a 
21-18 victory. 

Positive attitudes concerning competition and spirit were highlighted in two games yesterday. 
The first instance of the impor­tance of Bookstore Basketball in the life of the average student oc­curred in the game between One Hung and 4 Dragons and Dave's Heavy Towing. With the score tied at 20-20 at 7:20p.m., a nagging fan screamed to Brian Moffitt telling him that he had a test in 10 minutes. Moffitt, not willing to sacrifice his team's chances and realizing the importance of school in relation to Bookstore Basketball, 
see BOOKSTORE, page 6 
Globetrotters bring new player, basketball antics to the ACC 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
When the Harlem Globetrotters visit the ACC tomorrow night (tickets are on sale at the ACC) they'll be featuring something new and no, she's not the ball girl. The newest member of the Trotters is Lynette Woodard, the first woman ever to play for the world-famous team. 
Woodard, a 6-0 guard, was the captain of the 1984 gold medal­winning women's Olympic basket­ball team and holds the NCAA record for points in a career with 3,649. After playing a year of pro­fessional ball in Italy and coaching at her alma mater, Kansas, she became a Globetrotter after taking part in two tryouts this summer. 

"Personally, on a business level, I thought it was a good move," says Clyde "The Glide" Austin, a four­year Harlem veteran. "It's proven to be so, as our crowds have been bigger. 
"Lynette was a cut above the rest of the girls at the tryouts. If I had to choose, I would have chosen Lynette." 
"Off the court, you have to be more of a gentleman on the bus and all," says Austin, when asked what it's like to suddenly have a woman in a previously all-male environ­n_u:nt~."Qn the court, we're all pro­'i~ssionals so we just go out and play." 

Austin was a four-year starter at 
N.C. State. After a tryout with the Philadelphia 76ers when he left the Wi>:liRac5 A\IHjii J:l~came a 
~bbet~Mt~-l~ t&e~~ruftft*l~~·1Jear~; 
When he joined his new team, he found he had to put a little more entertainment into his already dazzling style of play. 
"It wasn't real hard to learn the entertainment part," says Austin. "I like the razzle-dazzle style. I just had to ease up on the competitive side and not worry about winning. Right now we play about 70 percent basketball and 30 percent of it is skits. 
"When we're overseas, we have to put more entertainment into the game. Those people are there for the laughs. When we're in the United States, we have to play more basketball because that's what the people want to see. After all, basketball was founded here." 
Yet the question remains, how serious are the Globetrotters about basketball? 
"We do try to play to win every night," says Austin. "The Washington_Generals (the Trotters' travelling opponents and straight men) try to win every night, too. We have to be prepared." . 
When the Globetrotters started in 1927, they introduced and 
see TROTTERS, page 6 
Thursday, AprillO, 1986 -page 8 
fhe O~ver/Robert Jones 


Bookstore Basketball action (shown above) continued yesterday in the face of strong, cold winds which played havoc on outside shooting. Top-ranked teams will play at Stepan today as Mike Keegan details the games at-left. 
Women's basketball signs 2 prep players 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team signed two high 
school seniors to letters of intent yesterday, bringing to three the 
total of recruits for the 86-87 season. 
The first player signed is Anne Schwartz a 6-2 forward from Gabriel Richard High School in Ann Arbor, Mich. Schwartz averaged 21 points and 10 rebounds last year and was named to the all-state first team. In addition the Detroit Free Press and Ann Ar­bor Journal both named Schwartz to their All-Metor Teams. 
"Anne's biggest asset is her ability to rebound well offensively," said Irish head coach Mary DiStanislao. "She also has the agility and speed to fill the lane and pull up and hit the 17-foot jumper. She complements our total program, and she is an outstanding student-athlete." 
The other recruit signed is Julie Garske, a 5-10 swingman from Amherst High School in Amherst, Wis. Garske averaged 25 points and 12 rebounds in her senior campaign and was named to both the UPI and AP all-state first teams. 
"Julie is an excellent shooter and a good passer," said DiStanislao. "She also has the ability to get up and down the floor. She still has a·lot to learn, but we think she will grow into our pro­gram." 
DiStanislao also said that she got the best player in Wisconsin for the third year in a row (the first two were Sandy Botbam and Heidi Bunek) to complete the hat trick. 
Schwartz and Garske will join Cathy Emigolz, who signed with the Irish during the November signing period, as next year's freshmen, and Coach DiStanislao said that all three complement each other as well as the team's style of play. 
Irish baseball splits with MSU, defeats Illinois-Chicago, 11-7 
By KEVIN HERBERT In the opening game Tuesday, Sports Writer the Irish and Spartans were tied at four after five innings of play. 
John Gleeson picked up his third Then John Loughran, Mike save of the year yesterday to give Moshier and sophomore .Pat the Irish an 11-7 win over Illinois­Pesavento all singled to help give Chicago at cold and windy Jake Notre Dame a 7-4Iead. Kline field. In the sixth, however, State cut 
The win came on the heels of the lead to 7-6 and proceeded to Tuesday doubleheader split with add two more in the seventh to edge host Michigan State. the Irish 8-7. 
"A lack of concentration in the In the second game of the twin­late innings has really plagued us," bill, an awesome 22 hit attack said Notre Dame head coach Larry sparked Notre Dame past Michigan Gallo. "We have lacked the kilelr State 20-11. instinct." Yesterday, the Irish got behind 
Indeed, Notre Dame has given up early. After three and a half, a combined total of 14 runs in the Illinois-Chicago led 2-0. final inning of its last three games. Sophomore Tim Hutson scored 
on Ken Soos single to tie the game 
at two. 
Sophomore Chris Flynn then doubled to drive in John Loughran to give Notre Dame a 4-3 lead, a lead it would never relinquish. 
The advantage would become 10­2 when Notre Dame scored three more in the fifth and four in the sixth. An insurance run was added in the seventh to make it ll-4 going into the top of the ninth. 
The final inning jinx almost plagued the Irish again as the Flames notched five runs and had the bases loaded and the tying run at the plate when Gleeson was call 
see BASEBALL, page 7 







