Big Brother -page 6 

FRIDAY, MAY2, 1986
VOL. XX, NO. 138 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Six dorms change rectors for next fall 
By SEAN NEALON 
Father Merwyn Thomas will be 
and TRIPP BALTZ replaced as rector of Fisher. 
News Staff Moira Baker, eight-time rector 
of Lewis Hall, has elected to take a 
One-fourth of the residence halls full-time position teaching English on the Notre Dame campus will at Radford University in Radford, have new rectors when students Virginia. return next fall, according to an Repeated attempts to confirm the Observer survey of the current hall changes through the Office of Stu­rectors. dent Affairs went unanswered 
The Observer contacted each of because Vice President for Student the 24 rectors about possible Affairs Father David Tyson was changes .in the rector positions at out of town and unavailable for each hall. According to the rectors: comment. 
Brother Edward Luther is leav­The departing rectors all in­ing Morrissey Manor to become dicated that they did not know who rector of Fisher Hall. their successors would be at their 
£:'ather Mario Pedi will not be positions. 
returning to St. Edward's Hall next "It is Father Tyson's policy to 
year. change rectors every six to eight 
Sister Jodie Screes is leaving years," said Luther, who has been Lyons Hall after this semester. rector of Morrissey for eight years. University President Father Theodore Hesburgh Holtz will emcee the event tonight at 8 at the ACC. Sister Nadine Overbeck will give "Any move is difficult, like a and Saint Mary's President William Hickey met Proceeds from the dance benefit World Hunger. up her position at Breen-Phillips to recently in conjunction with the Charity Ball. Lou
see RECTOR, page 4 go on sabbatical. 
Soviets insist radiation decreasing amid speculation 
Associated Press State television showed colorfully that "the accident is not over with. NPS' settlement dropped 1.5 to 2 were dead was not clear. 
dressed (olk dancers performing That is clear. We have not told times. David Ben-Bassat said the Soviet MOSCOW-The Soviet Union told there. other countries that everything is "Work is under way to deactivate ham operator told him Wednesday a nervous world yesterday that The cause of the accident has not OK and they can relax." the contaminated areas adjacent to that he lived 30 miles north of the radiation from the nuclear plant been revealed, but Soviet radiation The U.S. Agriculture Depart­the NPS territory. reactor and "nobody drinks the disaster was decreasing, but one of expert Pavel Ramzaev said when ment said shifting winds were car­"Medical assistance is being ad­water. We are afraid." its diplomats said other countries asked yesterday if it was a rying a radioactive plume from the ministered to those affected of The Soviet Union's first public should not relax because the "acci­meltdown of the reactor core: "I stricken plant over the rich whom 18 people are in serious con­mention of any effect on other dent is not over." suppose that is so." farmland of the western Ukraine dition. There are no foreign countries came in a report yester­
The Kremlin presented a calm There were conflicting reports and into Romania, Hungary, citizens among those affected," day by the official news agency face, rejecting offers of help from about whether the reactor fire had eastern Czechoslavakia and said the Soviet government. Tass on a meeting in New York 
the United States and other coun­ben extinguished. U.S. Intelligence Austria. Poland reported less The "settlement" is Pripyat, a between U.N. Secretary-General tries, ·but an international bone­sources had said Wednesday in fallout than in previous days but town of 25,000 built at the plant Javier Perez de Cuellar and Yuri marrow transplant organization Washington that it still raged and said radioactivity levels in water site. Dubinin, chief Soviet delegate to said its offer to aid victims had could burn for weeks. and soil remain high. the United Nations. 
Officially, the casualty toll is two been accepted. Vitaly Churkin, second secretary The Soviet government said only dead and 197 injured, but Secretary It said: "the Soviet government 
Traditional May Day parades of the Soviet Embassy in that "efforts to implement a com­of State George Shultz said it was has informed a group of European were held as usual, including one in Washington, testifying before a plex of technical measure con­higher "by good measure." states of the accident and steps Kiev, the Ukrainian city of 2.4 House of Representatives subcom­tinued at the Chernobyl nuclear ,An Israeli amateur radio undertaken to liquidate its con­
million only 80 miles from the mittee yesterday, was asked power station (NPS) in the duration operator in Tel Aviv said a Soviet sequences, so that the governments Chernobyl power plant where a whether the fire had been put out. of April 30. The radioactivity on ham radio operator told him there 
see SOVIET, page 4 reactor caught fire last Friday. He said, "I don't know," and added the territory of the NPS and the were 300 casualties, but how many 



Homosexual group proposes access to facilities 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
A homosexual group's set of proposals seeking access to 
University facilities and media remains under considera­
tion, almost two weeks after it was submitted. 
The campus-based group, the Gays and Lesbians at 
Notre Dame/Saint Mary's College, submitted the pro­
posals several days after an April 8 meeting with Student 
Affairs administrators. 
During that meeting, the administrators offered to con­
sider any proposals the group might submit. 
The GLND/SMC's proposals seek to use the facilities of 
the Center for Social Concerns, to sponsor events in 
University-owned facilities and to advertise in University­
owned and op~rated media, all privileges now denied the 
group. 
The group also submitted a proposal seeking to establish 
a series of meetings with administrators to address issues 
now separating them. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson, 
who attended the meeting and received a copy of the pro­
posals, said he couldn't discuss the proposals because no 
decision had been reached on them. 
Developmental Process for Gay Women and Men 
As reported by Gaytlesblan Psychologist$ 
l.•lbllllll  QtyMI...  
8Aw•Nof homoauu•tt.tllnp  1Uyr.  12.1yr.  
• H•dOrat ..ln....ltMliWd•xptrf41nof • U...,.tood what"ttomoMxual" w•• • Hid frr.t bomoMKual r-.tfoMhlp  1U 1M ~..  14.11 17.2 21.1  
• Contldti1KI Mlf "tlornoNltual"  23.2  21.1  
• Acqu!M P"ltiYI "faf'ldtntlty  21.7  2&.5  
• Oltok!Md ldlntlty to *POW..  21.7  3U  
• DlaciOMd ldeirtlty to fMI'id(tl  28.2  21.0  
• OIMioud Identity to p•mtt  30.2  21.0  
• DIICioud kMI'Itlty prot•aslonally  32.4  31.2  
s-APA MOl1lto<, NQ-r. !On  
~~  ,,  

Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Sister Jean Lenz, Assistant Vice President for Student Services Father Francis Cafarelli and Associate Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick also attended the meeting and received a copy of the proposals. 
They also said they could not discuss the proposals because no decision had been reached on them. 
Because the administration doesn't officially recognize the group as a student activity organization, the group is denied many of the privileges it is seeking, said one of the 
group's co-chairs, "Jenny," speaking on condition that her 
real name not be used. 
Jenny, a senior at Notre Dame, said almost all of the group's 50 members are Notre Dame students. Faculty, staff, alumni, clergy members and citizens of the com­munity make up the rest of the group. 
Although a few Saint Mary's faculty are member5, no Saint Mary's student is part of the group, she said. Because no student of the College is a member, the group hasn't sought official recognition from Saint Mary's, she added. 
According to the letter sent along with the GLND/SMCis proposals, the group is "working toward a day when homosexuality is considered an ordinary, non­controversial aspect of everyday life." 
"To be more specific, we look forward to a time when it will make absolutely no difference whether one's room­mate, teacher, teammate, friend or colleague is gay, les­bian or nongay," the letter continued. 
Following the opening statement were the group's pro­posals. Included among them was a proposal to establish an open-ended series of meetings during the summer and the next school year. 
The proposed meetings, which would be open to all ad­ministrators, would "provide for ongoing dialogue see GAYS, page 5 
The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 2 

Finals thieves abound
·In Brief 
1 

Christa McAuliffe was laid to rest yesterday in a hillside cemetery overlooking the city where she taught school, the first of the seven Challenger astronauts to be buried. "A private Roman Catholic interment service was held at 11 a.m. for S. Christa McAuliffe," said family spokesman Michael Callahan. The service was conducted by McAuliffe's cousin, the Reverend James Leary. Immediately after the ceremony, workers removed flowers from the bare gravesites, presumably to direct attention away from it. -AP 
A grant of $75,000 from the Charles Culpeper Foun­dation has been awarded to Notre Dame's department of modern and classical languages, according to David Ladouceur, chairman of the department. The grant will be used to establish a summer language institute, to provide scholarships, to fund lectures by visiting scholars and to organize workshops. In addition, the grant will aid the department's faculty development by providing stipends for foreign travel, course reductions and course planning. 
-The Observer 

Gerald Ford pardons 4,000. A cheering crowd of about 4,000 West Point cadets received pardons for minor con­duct infractions from the former president on Wednesday. By tradition, any head of state or former head of state has the right to relieve U.S. military academy cadets from punishment incurred for minor violations. Ford's aciton removed obstacles to gradua­tion for some of them, a spokesman said. -AP 
Of Interest 

Reins of Life, a program teaching horseback riding as physical therapy to children in St. Joseph County, needs volunteers for the after school program on Mondays and Tuesdays beginning May 5. Interested persons should be age 14 or older, though no experience is required. Call234-2263 for more informa­tion. -The Observer 
A handicapped summer camp list is now available from .the Indiana Department of Education. To get the list of more that 30 Indiana camps and out-of-state facilities, con­tact the Division of Special Education, Indiana Department of Education, 229 State I:Jouse, Indianapolis, IN 46204, or call 317­927-0219.-The Observer 
A Wind Ensemble concert conducted by Roger Briggs, professor in the Saint Mary's music department, will be presented Sunday night at 8 in Moreau Hall's Little Theatre at Saint Mary's. The performance is open to the public free of charge. -The Observer 
A Spanish Mass in honor of graduating seniors will be celebrated by Father Bob Pelton Sunday at 11 a.m. in Farley Hall. -The Observer 
Counseling internships are available at the Women's Care Center during the school year, for a summer or for a year of post-graduate service work. Call the center at 234-0363 for more information. -The Observer 
Mr. Stanford will be named tomorrow night at 7:30 in Washington Hall. Proceeds from the competition will go to Catholic Relief Services. -The Observer 
An Tostal '87 Chairman applications are available in the Student Activities office on the first floor of LaFortune. Ap­plications must be returned by Monday. For more information, call Kendra at 289-4417. -The Observer 

Weather 
Throw up the sash and take a deep breath of cool air because it will be sunny, breezy and cool today with highs in the mid 50s. Clear with a chance of frost tonight with lows in the mid 30s. Mostly sunny and warmer Saturday with highs near 60. -AP 





We are unfortunately still without a typesetter, the machine which nor­mally sets copy from our computer system. This means we have to type out the entire paper by hand, which may result in a few errors getting through. We are working to correct the problem as soon as possible. Please bear with us. 
1bc: Observer ( l'SPS ~99 l-~U\1\l) is published ~ontlay thrnuflh friday ex<·ept durin!( exam anti vacation periotls. The Observer i> published by the Slutlent•ofthe t·niver.ity of Notte Dame and Saint Mary"s College. Subscription• may be pur<·hasetl ti>r SW per year (SlOper semesuorl by wrilinglbc Observer, P.O. Box Q. ~otre Dame. Indiana ~6~'\6. 
The Observer is a member of The Auoclatcd Press. All reprntluclion righL' are 
r~SI"rved. 



so watch your books 
Hang onto your books, boys and girls! 

It's end-of-the-semester time, that semi-annual period featuring early parietals, studying for finals Greg (an activity which, Father Tyson figures, increases 
Stohr

because of early parietals), newly-grown beards, and packing to go home. It is also the time to become in­
Assistant Viewpoint Edi_tor

creasingly cautious if one is in the habit of leaving a backpack full of books in such locations as dining hall or bookstore lobbies. 
Every semester at exam time certain shady characters among our peers realize that they can make money by selling books to nearby bookstores. They also realize tht they can make even more money if they sell other people's books as well as their own. Thus, at the end of every semester, students exiting the dining halls or the bookstore discover that those backpacks full of books have disappeared. 
Why a typical backpack bandit waits until December or May to seize stray backpacks is beyond me. It seems as though he would do far better if he spent all semester pilfering books and hiding them un­til he could sell them. But he never surfaces until the final weeks. Maybe he does not find resorting to thievery necessary until he has spent so much during the semester that the next check he writer for over $2.47 will bounce. Maybe the pressure of finals becomes so intense that he uses crime as and escape valve. Whatever his reasons, the bandit always in­creases his activity at the end of the semester. 


I gained my first experience with one of these deli­rescued her from imminent despair by finding and quents last December. I went to lunch at South Dining loaning to her another book, but the theft of a book at Hall with a friend who committed the grave error of the end of the semester can have semi-disastrous con­
parting with her backpack near the coat racks. When sequences for less fortunate students. we returned, it had vanished. A textbook takes on an ever-magnifying importance 
as the final exam covering it approaches until it 
becomes indispensable the night before the final.

Two hours later the backpack, having been returned Discovering that a book which has not yet been read,by a good Samaritan, who ha:d found it abandoned much less studied, has been stolen less than 24 hours near D-6 parking lot, reappeared in her room. Missing before the final exam in that class can throw even the were a social psychology book and a calculus book. 
calmest student into panic. 

The thief had stolen only the two books; he had left alone a valuable checkbook. 
The end-of-the-semester backpack bandit indeed is Backpack bandits will be everywhere during these a unique sort. Not yet a hardened criminal, he may final days of the school year. Books will disappear. display hints of compassion toward his victims by not Listen carefully in the dining hall and bookstore lob­swiping items of personal value or by stealing only a bies, and you will hear this common line: "But I left it limited amount from any one person. Given a choice, right here!" he would much sooner steal a text on personal finance Just make sure you are hearing these words, not than a checkbook. saying them. 
Perhaps he sees heisting $40 worth of books as less "personal" than forging someone's name on a check for $40. Thanks toyou... 
The damage to the unfortunate backpack-• rk l~­abandoner, though, is the same, if not greater. it WO S... _,/A_ The loss of her calculus book was particularly un--.q timely for my friend since her exam in that class was for ALLOF US ~,• 
scheduled for the following day. Luckily, a helpful ~,1 
gentleman t the Freshman Year of f:.::::::::._,:::O~ff~ic~e~~::::~=--=;jpj~~~~~~~~~iiss~ 
Thanks toyou... PRo-TYPE Town and Country 
Do you neecf a dwertatlon 
Barber Shop, MlllhaWOik~ opw~%, Mon.-sat. 

it works... or book typed?
for ALL OF US Qualified, referenced. 
277-5833 
WAIT 'TIL NEXT 
The fun begins thefirst week back: 
FRIDAY, AUGUST 29th: 'Crewcuts on the Quad' 
You pay $10 to get a crewcut in the middle of South Quad, the money goes to charity and you get aT-shirt that says: 'I shed my hair because I care.' 
SATURDAY, AUGUST 30th: 'Camp Out on the Quad' Everybody brings a blanket and a pillow out to sleep on the quad (remember kiddies, no parletals outdoors!) Don't claolce on tlaose/fnalsl Have a great SummerI 
Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 3

The Observer 


South African blacks stage nationwide work stoppage 
Associal~ Press 
strength among black workers, strikers, there was no way to than six million in a population of employees turned up. 
students and civic groups in the calculate how many others left 24 million. Thousands of mixed-race people 
JOHANNESBURG, South campaign for equal rights. school and work for the day in Both Vincent Brett, manpower joined the strike, and many Asians Africa -Millions of blacks stayed An academic monitoring group rurai areas and the nation's 10 director for the chamber, and Pro­closed their shops in sympathy. away from jobs and schools yester­said at least 1.5 million workers, tribal homelands, scenes of turmoil fessor Eddie Webster, head of the Supermarkets tried to cope with day, crippling factories, mines and and possibly many more, struck for in recent months. academic monitor group, agreed white staff, but checkout counters stores in the largest anti-apartheid the day in the nation's four largest The national Associated the strike was the largest ever in were jammed. protest in South African history. Cities alone. A government Chambers of Commerce reported South Africa. Transport to and from townships 
The nationwide strike, deman­spokesman also estimated at least "massive absence from work" In Port Elizabeth in eastern Cape halted as bus, train and taxi drivers ding in part that May Day be one million urban black students across the country, ranging from 70 Province, researcher Glen Adler joined the strike. Most companies declared a national holiday, signal­boycotted classes for the day. to 100 percent. The black said a survey of 86 companies adopted a policy of "no work, no ed a powerful new organizational Beyond those 2.5 million workforce is estimated at more showed that just six of 11 ,000 black pay, no penalty." 
t••••••••••••••••••••••••••••; Shultz defends Marcos'! HEY !rights as 'free man' 
.................................................~ 
Associated Press assu~ances of U.S. support for the • • Aqumo government, Shultz snap­
• BANDS DJ's d • 
BALI, Indonesia -Secretary of ped to reporters: "You will have to 
State George Shultz said yesterday ask Mr. Laurel if he is satisfied. Let
• an the Reagan administration con-me remind you the president is not • • siders deposed Philippine President on trial here."• ot er ' RMERS • FerdinandMarcos"afreeman"en-In his last full day on this
ERF


h P 0 

• • ~~~~la~d ~~~ :~p~c:;:;r}r;~ ~! ¥~~~~al1~~~~eb~~~~~~;:~~~ i~~e~~ 
..••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••++•••••••••••....._ United States if he wishes. national.economic summit, Reagan 
-.,.. In bluntly-spoken language ex-met With Laurel, conferred • • posing tension between the ad-separately with Indonesian Presi­• • ministration and the government of dent. Suharto. ~nd spoke to the
IFYoU WoULD LIKETo 
Marcos' successor Corazon foreign ministers of the • • Aquino, Shultz also said "we don't Association of Southeast Asian Na-
SHOw YoUR STUFFIN THE
• • have infinite capacity to provide tions (ASEAN). Reagan then was money" to Manila. joined by his wife Nancy for an 
• 
NEW UNDERGRADUATE • 
Shultz said Philippine Vice Presi-elegant evening dinner and cultural • • dent Salvador Laurel, in a meeting performance hosted by Suharto with President Reagan, was told andhiswife, Tien.
• NIGHTCLUB NEXT YEAR' • the administration believes the In a toast, Reagan noted strong •• coNTACT TOM UTTER •• ~~~~~sh ~fat~~ ~~~. ~;ve~~~~~~v~ m~~ee~nut~d~I.;ffee;r~.~. t:e~;~d~a~fn;~:::~~
must resolve claims by the Aquino
• (X21 06) • 
government that Marcos stole During his address to the • • billions in money and other So~theast Asia? offi~ials, Reagan valuables belonging to the vmced great disappomtment that 
-++++++++++++++++++++++++++++.. Filipinos. Vietnam had broke!l off t.alk~ 
on 

Asked whether Reagan had pro-the search for Amencans still hsted vided to Laurel sufficient as missing in action. 



Moving to the Big Apple? 
Then come meet and join the NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK 
Alumni Senior Club Alumni Senior Picnic Saturday, May 3 Noon -2pm 

------~---------.. 
The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 4 
Soviet nuke 
catastrophe 
sends futures 
skyrocketing 
Associated Press 
U)NDON -The nuclear accident in the Ukraine, one of the Soviet Union's biggest farming regions, has caused a sharp rise in wheat and livestock prices on world markets, commodities analysts said yesterday. 
In the absence of any word from the Soviet Union on possible radiation damage to soil, water, crops and herds, commodities markets have been gripped by speculation that the Soviets will be forced to increase imports of grain, sugar and milk products. 
Commodities analysts said it was too early to assess the extent of radioactive pollution in the Ukraine from "the Chernobyl nuclear reactor but that heavy fallout could damage Soviet agricultural output for years to 

I 
( come. Sweden and Denmark have
I 
already banned food imports from the Soviet Union and some Eastern European countries. 
"The market is going through the roof," said Bill Kemaria, an analyst with the London-based Interna­tional Wheat Council. "We haven't seen excitement like this for months and months." 
In Washington, the U.S. Agriculture Department reported shifting winds were carrying the radioactive plume to the southwest yesterday, in a direction that could ultimately affect some of the Soviet Union's richest, black earth areas. 

Analysts in London and Chicago attributed the commodities rally mainly to speculative buyirig and said it could fizzle out. 

Soviet 
continuedfrompage 1 
of nations that could be affected coule take the necessary measures for securing the health of the population and to protect the en­vironment." 


Rector 
continuedfrom page 1 
priest who has spent a lot of time and effort in a parish and then has to move on. I am here to work in this apostolate so I am not being torn away. I have broader respon­sibilities than to one dorm," Luther added. 
Screes said she is unsure where she will be geographically, but will be "researching creative ministries for church leaders." 
"A rectress has a demanding schedule, but it has been rewar­ding. The reward has been working with quality, insp1r1ng undergraduate women," Screes said. 
Screes, like the other rectors, said she had no word on who would be replacing her. She did say that interviews were still going on and that she was on the selection com­mittee. 
The rectors said they have no in­formation on when the incoming rectors will be announced or if students will be informed before they go }lome for the summer. 

......---------TheDrinks Are On Us!---­
Pizza ONLY At Little Caesars 

4 SMALL SOFT DRINKS FREE 
WITH T'HE PURCHASE OF ANY SMALL, 
1349 Portage Ave 2 ITEM, $6.50 Little Caesars Pizza 
South Bend, IN 233-3200 



All you have to do is march spend on your education, or some-yourself down to your campus thing really worthwhile. microcomputer center before May And, for those of you with the 15th and spend five fun-packed average amount of luck, there are minutes letting us demonstrate how free Apple® painter's caps for every-
aMacintosh™ computer can make one who comes in and lean1s how life much more pleasant for you. a Macintosh can help 
In return, we'll enter your name you work better, faster, 
D into a drawing where one very and smarter. ! ~ lucky person on campus will win the It's one demonstra-, grand prize of five hundred dollars. tion that could ii!~~~~!!!mt1 

Thats $500. Cash. American. To change your life. 
NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
No purchase necessary! 7b become eli!;iblejill' prizes. each participant mustjill out the entry· limn ;mn•itled at participatink mrcmmmpuler ce1rtm: Wimrw need not be/JIY!SI!IItto um Odds depend on the numheroj mlrii!Sal each lotalimr. allpri~es uil!beaumtkd List o(prrze uimwrs obtmnedbysetrdbt!{ self-addressed enwlope to Gary' M. Rl,'IUJids &A.~Sociaii!S. Inc.. 16535 WBIUetnound Road. Brookfield. IW 53005 © 198oApple Crnnpuler: Inc. Apple and the Apple logo tin! registered trademarks qfApple Computer. Inc. Mm:intosh i1· a trademark qfMc!ntash Lahrll'ator;: Inc and i~ heill!{ used uith it' express permi'l.lirm. MolT' details 
allaz!ab/e tilyour campus microcomputer cmter 
• The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 5 

Notre Dame graduate student who Despite the change in its focus, also spoke only on condition his the GLND/SMC still gives its
Gays 

name not be used. "For us, it goes members the opportunity to 
continuedfrompage 1 deeper than that, all the way to our socialize with those of the same sex­


Assistant Production Manager 

• 
Salaried Position 


• 
Duties Include: supervision, hiring, and training of layout personnel 

• 
Previous design and layout experience Is prefer­red 


II Interested contact Chris Bowler at The Observer (239-5303) by 5 p.m. Friday, May 2. 
The Observer News Department 

is now hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant News Editor 

• 
Copy Editor 



A personal statement and resume is due by 5 p.m. Monday. Questions should be referred to Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski 
....1 
between the University and GLND/SMC in order that we may learn from each other ... "the pro-· posal states. 
The group also requested regular 
opportunities to: 
Use the Center for Social Con­cerns for meetings, rap sessions, films ana lectures, and to maintain a mail box on campus. 
Sponsor programs, services and events in University-owned facilities on campus. 
Include its address and/or phone number in notices or an­nouncements to be placed in or read over University-owned media. 
Maintain an address and/or phone number in the student direc­tory. 
Advertise programs, services and events in University-owned and operated media in accord with the various media organizations. 
One of the primary reasons the group requested the April 8 meeting was the University's ban of the group's announcements from the student-run radio stations, she said. That ban prompted the stu­dent managers of WVFI-AM and WSND-FM to resign their posi­tions. 
"The airwaves are free and the radio station is there to serve the public," Jenny said. "We are part of the public." 
Another member of the group said the real issue for the group is not censorship. 
"For the radio station, the issue is censorship," said the member, a 




GREYHOUND 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS SATURDAY, MAY lOth THRU THURSDAY, MAY 15th, TO PICK-UP YOUR TRUNKS & BOXES FOR SHIPMENT HOME. 
GREYHOUND VAN WILL BE BEHIND BOOKSTORE MAY lOth THRU MAY 15th FROM 10:00 a.m. UNTIL 4:30p.m. SHIP PREPAID (CASH) OR COLLECT (LET DAD PAY) 
INDIVIDUAL TRUNKS & BOXES CANNOT EXCEED 100#. WE'LL HAVE TAPE AND SHIPPING LABELS. 

existence as an organization and even as people," he said. 
"The University wants to do everything it can to keep us quiet. We're not the type of image that the University wants conveyed," the graduate student said. 
Cafarelli has said the public ser­vice announcements were banned because allowing them to be broad­
case  would  make  it  seem  the  
University  was  endo rsing  the  
group.  

Although the group has a 15-year history, only at the beginning of last year did it change from a group meeting primarily for parties to a more socially-active organization, said the graduate student. 
In addition to informing its members about developments of concern to gays and lesbians, the group attempts to educate the com­munity about homosexuality, he said. 
The group has provided lec­turers to four classes at Saint Mary's as a part of this education process, Jenny said. The grou also has co-sponsored a poetry reading with the Saint Mary's College Cam­pus Ministry, an organizaiton which has been very cooperative with the group, she said. 
ual orientation, said Jenny. She stressed that the group, which meets once every three weeks, is "not a singles' club." 
"It's a minority group. It's like being black or hispanic at Notre Dame, we feel alienated," she said, adding, "The group is one place we don't feel alienated." 
The group's members, who range from the celibate to the sexually ac­tive, are not concerned with other members' sexual relationships, ac­cording to the graduate student. "Sexual activity is not part of our group," he said. 
Most of the undergraduates who are members weren't aware of their homosexuality when they decided to attend Notre Dame, said Joe, an undergraduate and the group's other co-chair, who spoke on con­dition that his last name not be us­ed. 
In order to become a member, a person must write for information at least twice, thereby avoiding a student's signing-up another stu­dent as a prank, he said. 
All letters the group receives are 
kept confidential, Jenny said. 
"If people find out, you're pigeonholed," he said. "People no longer look at you as the smart skinny student but as a homosex­ual. It colors everyone's opinion of you." 

Leslie M. Bodnar, M.D. Orthopaedic Surgeon-Sports Medicine 
Will be closing his office on the Notre Dame campus on May 16, 
1986. Thereafter his practice will be restricted to his downtown 
office at 328 North Michigan, South Bend, IN 46601, (219) 234-1159 
Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOWRElVTING FOR FAIL 
Completely fumishe~ balconies, laundry, and oft-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dealafor Summer Se.lon) 
Office at 120 NO Ave 
~7/156-5716 
CaUAayUme 
SUMMER IN CHICAGO AT liT FOR 119 WAYS TO: 

• 

• 
119 undergraduate or graduate courses to choose from 

• 
8 week summer session-June 16 to August 8 

• 
Day and evening classes 

• 
Main Campus and Extension Centers 

• 
Ample FREE parking 

• 
Mail pre-registration available 


FOR INFORMATION CALL TOLL-FREE: 
1-800-448-2329 
Ask tor: Mary Edwards 
ILLINOIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 3300 South Federal Streef Chicago. Illinois 60616 
The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986 -p~ge 6 
Senior pre-med accepts Niland service award 
By ELLYN MASTAKO 
Senior StaffReporter 
The first Patrick John Niland Memorial Service Award was awarded to John Muffoletto, a senior pre-med, at the volunteer recognition banquet of the Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County. 
The award was named for Niland, a 1982 graduate of Notre Dame. A Big Brother while at Notre Dame, he was killed in a car accident in 1985. 
When asked why he thought he was chosen for the award, Muf­foletto said, "I think I've had a big impact on my Little Brother. He was put into a foster home and then sent back home, and I kept seeing him and helping him through it all." 
In his presentation speech, Father Edward Malloy, associate provost of Notre Dame, said when Niland's accident occurred, Niland deliberately swerved to save his sister from the impact of the colli­sion and sacrificed his own life. 
Malloy, a close personal friend of Niland, represented Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, at the banquet. 
Because of Niland's commitment to the Big Brothers/Big Sisters pro­gram, his family established this award to recognize a Notre Dame student for exceptional service as a Big Brother/Big Sister volunteer. 
In March of every year, each caseworker in the program nominates a Notre Dame senior or graduate student currently serving as a Big Brother or Big Sister whom they think fulfills the eligibility and selection criteria for the award. 
Some of the criteria for the award include general quality and closeness of the relationship, dif­ficulty of problems experienced by the Little Brother or Little Sister, continuity of relationship and other evidence of extraordinary contribu­tions of time, caring and self­sacrifice. 
"It's a really good feeling to have received this award," said Muf­foletto. "After reading about Niland and what the award means, it seemed more important. Actual­
ly,  when I got it,  I had  a  really  
special feeling," he said.  
Muffoletto  has  been  a  Big  

Brother for over two years. He said his roommate's involvement in the program prompted him to get in­volved. "I feel that since I've been here four years, I should do something in the community," said Muffoletto. 
Muffoletto said he spends about one afternoon per week with his Little Brother, Chris. "We go bowl­ing or to the movies; the possibilities are endless. I just do the things I did with my older brother, so it really is easy." 
"Chris is a great kid. We've built a really open relationship over the years," said Muffoletto. 
Muffoletto encouraged students to join the Big Brothers/Big Sisters program. "For people like myself who were a bit leery of joining the program, give it a try. You learn much about yourself through the experiences you have with the child." 


But no one's answering at the Scholastic office. lions, such as Scholastic and Dome, have had to In the face of continuing LaFortune Student evacuate their officesfor the summer. Center renovations, many activities and publica-
The Picture Man 
presents 

SENIOR FORMAL PICTURE PICKUP 
Thurs. & Fri. May 1& 2 
Haggar Center, Saint Mary's 11am·1pm LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame 1:30-4:00 pm 

Watch ND Ruggers work it Against Ohio U. 
Stepan Field 
1:00 SATURDAY 
• $ $ave $ $ ~ill!lii!IM~..~-IIIiiliiiiliiiiiiliiii 
525.00 IO S15-0.00 OFF$ave dolla 
On any Rant-it-Hare, Leave-it-Thera SEE THis MAP 


FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 

\ ­
L 




Student Activities Board 
Presents• :  Friday May 2nd  
Rqck'n 8r Rythm  South Quad  
FREE MUSIC  

•I Spy Mod Band=======~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:6pm-8:30pm 
•Ooze Magazine 9pm·Mid.
:======================================= 
A great band from ChicagoII· 
TriMark of Northern Indiana 219·294·7239 11002-11-5710 
. -----------------------------------------------------------~ 


~i~~~_()__i_ll__t
___________________F_ri-da-y,M_a_y2-,l-98-6--pa-ge-7 Fear of homosexuality separates us from God 
Going into the Roar: Exploring Attitudes Toward Homosexuality 
As the story is told, the old toothless, clawless king of the pride of lions till leads the hunt long into his old age. When the pride enters the field for the hunt, the king goes to one end and the younger lions to the opposite end. They lie in wait and when the prey enters the field the old king lets out his mighty roar. The prey turns, flees from the roar, and runs directly into the paws and claws of the waiting pride. And so it is with us too, I think. 
Elizabeth Smoyer guest column 
When we avoid the roar of our own negative feelings about those we label "fag," "queer," "fairy," one of "those kind," I believe we risk perishing in the jaws and claws of our pre-judgments, condemnations, stereotypical attitudes and thinking. I choose to apply this story to our attitudes toward individuals and the group known as the gay/lesbian community. I choose to write not about "them," but about the other half of the dialectic, the "us." In doing so, I invite the readers to look into the roar of their own attitudes about homosexuality in hope of avoiding the loss of something of in­calculable value to the whole human com­munity. I believe that in steretyping, label­ing, making jokes about and rejecting gays/lesbians, we risk losing our very soul as a Christian community. 
How does the non-gay community risk a loss of soul? I look to examples of the psychic coping skills of fear/avoidance and projections, and the behaviors to which these may contribute. If we fear or avoid contact with a person we suspect is gay/lesbian, we avoid connecting with them. We may deny ourselves entrance into life-giving relation­
ships with them. We are cut off from each 
other. Something of the gift of God's crea­
tion and life is lost to us individually and 
communally. 
Maybe we have had a difficult or hurtful 
experience with a gay/lesbian person. 
Maybe we fear a gay/lesbian piece of 
ourselves. Maybe we see a value we cherish 
being questioned by the existence of gay/les­
bian persons. If we project the shadow of 
that hurtful experience, fear, or questioned 
value onto other people in our lives, we stand 
behind our walls of fear. We deny one 
another renewed and deepened life. Old 
relationships can become hardened in at­
titudes of unforgiveness and rejection. New 
relationships are blocked and controlled by 
forces within us. For all the time we spend 
resenting old relationships, we lose much of 
the truth of the new person in our lives. In 
other words, we are cut off from true, if 
fearful, aspects of ourselves. Each of us is 
isolated and this prevents our true selves 
from growing beyond hurt, fear, and anger. 
I suggest that fear, projection and a perceived threat to a cherished value may contribute to behaviors such as isolating, labeling and rejecting gay/lesbian persons. To the extent that I isolate, label or reject any person, I cut myself off from my own wholeness and, by extension, the com­munity's wholeness. Such attitudes do much to keep the gay/lesbian members of our community isolated and rejected, living as outsiders in our midst. We, as a community, become responsible for a social sin of op­pression of a minority group. We may come to fear and project so much that we act as though a part of us in unlovable, unredeemable and worthy only of denial and destruction. This may be our unconscious message to the gay/lesbian persons in our community. 
I fear that these untended attitudes create sinful divisions in our community. The more we cut ourselves off from this painful reali­ty, the more we cut ourselves off from the life-giving, reconciling spirit of God who tries to move within us. God's grace is always offered. The choice of accepting the gay/lesbian person or group whose dif­ference we may find upsetting is ours. 


Because we are baptized into the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, we Christians are called to face the "deaths" of fear and pain. Each time we celebrate the Eucharist together, we renew our commitment to this call, trusting in our fundamental, un­breakable union with God in love. Will we continue choosing to isolate ourselves from those of our community we fear because they bear the label of gay/lesbian? Will we risk perishing in our feelings about them? Will we, on the other hand, trust that each and all gf us, gay/lesbian or not, are unique and lovable expressions of a loving and gracious God? 

Will we perish in our fear, or will we "go into the roar"? 
Elizabeth Smoyer is writing for the Cam­pus Ministry Team at Saint Mary's College and is a guest columnist. 
Editor's Note: 
Campus Ministry Team is a 7 person SMC pastoral team who work with students in social justice ministries, c/ergical and general pastoral concerns, and social service work. 
P.O. Box Q 
Boxing coach.'Nappy' a strong yet gentle man 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame must now say "good-bye" to 
one of her quiet heroes, to the man who has 
stood for strength and humility for over half 
a century. 
Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano taught 
me, and thousands of other guys, how to 
box. But that was not all. We arrived at the 
first day's practice, some cocky, some 
scared. We left the closing banquet, each 
mindful of his own shortcomings, each filled 
with admiration and gentlemanly respect for 
his fellows. We also knew that the Missions 
were more than a mere excuse to throw a 
back-street "smoker." And I remember him 
"choking up" while telling us about some of 
his "boys" who had died, on a Navy jet pilot 
shot down over Korea. "I feel for these 
guys," he said. 
We were no elitist group, but we did know that we were damned lucky to have had that experience, and to have known that man. 
It is humilating to get punched in the nose, expecially when one's best efforts fail to pre­vent it. It begets strength to stand and let so­meone do it, and more to remain poised, hating neither the opponent for doing it, nor oneself for letting it happen. 
St. Francis de Sales had a saying: "There is nothing so strong as gentleness; there is nothing so gentle as real strength." And now I hope this Doctor of the Church is joined in his Father's house by the boxer of Notre Dame, a humble man, a strong man, a gentleman. 
His Bengals' motto is almost a cliche: ''The strong must fight, so that the weak may be nourished." In it is contained a profound lesson, which will always be true this side of 
Garry Trudeau 

the Fall and this side of Paradise. May he rest in peace, and may his vision live on to in­spire young college guys to become his brand of gentlemen. 
Edmond F. Feeks Assistant Rector, Keenan Hall Indiana University medical student 

Kiev nuclear meltdown a planned Soviet ploy 
Dear Editor: 
Calling the meltdown of the nuclear plant outside Kiev an "accident" is a misnomer. It was, in fact, a communist ploy to achieve many anti-Western objectives. 
Why, one asks, would the Russian govern­ment welcome such an apparently disastrous "accident"? 
There are many reasons: 
I) to practice the evacuation of a densely populated area in the event of a nuclear war. Why else would they evacuate thousands if, as Pravda insists, only two people died? 
2) to genetically damage the future genera­tions of the free world, thus weakening the free world's resistance to communism. 
3) to advance the anti-nuclear movement in the West. The United States has 101 opera­tional nuclear power plants ready to close. 
4) to make radiation experiments which test unsuspecting subjects, thus preparing for the disaster of a nuclear war. 
5) and lastly, to observe how long it would take Western countries to detect rising levels of background radiation. 
Together, these motives reveal the diseas­ed minds ruling from the Kremlin. 
James S. Peters Paul Arends Holy Cross Hall 

IQEU,SOH& CF US llON7PlANT 7{)
I HAVE. TO WHITE U8t!?AJ.5 WANT 

Quote of the Day 
ccwre5s, aYa, 8LACJt:S 70 5TAY VICTI~ 
8E~IZEPANY!rla?E. liKE THe
HWS 

"CMA L.ITT/.E: fOWER. ITMA1<13S 
NE/JIIJIACK/3NT!?CPRENEIJ!?J Hl3
THAT?

f NONPW5W THtM FEa.. USERJ/... ~'TNtEP tJer-A5J~! He'S 
"When you leave Notre Dame,
MAKING H/5seePMavet

: 8YAU.YWR. 
Nl!IA/ \ \ 
7}1/iWGH PUR& HIJ571£! you won't know all the answers,
" but you'll know what questions to ask --you'll know what's impor­tant." 
Rev. William Beauchamp Walsh Hall Mass April 13, 1986 

General Board 

The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Joe Murphy Business Manager . . . .. Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager ......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ......... Anne M.Culligan slty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor. . . . . . . . ... Margie Kersten Photography Manager. . . . ... Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager.. . . . . . . . . .. David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . . . . Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor. . . ....... Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 



Accent 

Dallal's star rises 
1978, when, one by one, they made Land of the Genesis mixes SAM MOORE their way to the United States. rhythmic Afro-reggae with The)!> settled in Chicago and attend­smoother, more traditional reggae ed various universities in the area. which has been hailed for its "Dallol is following in Bob's In February of 1979, the friends "dreamy" sound. Thomas "Tom footsteps. I can see a great future from Addis Ababa regrouped into Tom 99" Washington, a pro­for them." the present group. ducer/arranger who has worked Rita Marley Dallol's first gig was at a Northern with such popular artists as Phil Illinois University party, and Collins, the Jacksons and Earth, 
Such glittering praise, coming fraternity parties gave the band Wind and Fire, worked with Dallol from the widow of the late reggae needed experience. Jly 1980, on the album. superstar Bob Marley, shows how however, Dallol had already per­While Dallol has risen to pro­acclaimed the band Dallol is in the formed dates in New York, minence in the United States, the international reggae scene. Dallol, Washington D.C., San Franciso members have made it a point to the headlining band tomorrow and Los Angeles. help their homeland, especially 
night for Rally Against Starvation's Dallol's big break came in 1982, since the ravaging famine which second annual benefit concert for when Rita Marley, very impressed has claimed 500,000 Ethiopian lives aid to the victims of African with the Dallol performance she first reached its catastrophic famine, has earned this praise saw, took the band on her dimensions in 1983. The many through the quality of their American tour for three shows. benefits which Dallol has played African-influenced reggae sound Afterwards, Rita Marley invited have raised nearly $20,000 in and their humanitarian concern, Dallol to Jamaica in order to hunger-relief aid. Percussionist manifested in the many benefits the record for her Rita Marley Music Sellasie has said that the band has band has played for hunger-relief label. They have recorded two planned ". . . to do as many more aid to Ethiopia -their homeland. singles, "Raggae Boogie" and benefit shows as possible to raise 
The members of Dallol -"Children of Africa" at Tuff Gong money -even though we have to CO DEL; RAST A will have per­selection of Dallol seems to be a Ruphael W. Mariam on drums, Studio for the label. cancel work for which we would sonal contact with these groups, "can't miss" proposition. 
Melaku Retta on synthesizers, Dallol's star began to rise. In have been paid." and it will monitor the _programs Tickets for tomorrow's concert, Dereje Mekonnen on keyboards 1983, the band played at the The spirit fits in well with the until their completion. which will also feature The Pat and synthesizers, Asrat Amro prestigous Reggae Sunsplash in goals of RASTA. RASTA Presi­This "hands-on" approach ties in Giblin Band and The Bull Dogs, 
Sellasie on percussion, and Mont ego Bay, Jamaica, and did a dent Cathyann Reynolds says that better with RAST A's aims for fur­are $5; they will be on sale at the brothers Zeleke and Mulugetta 20-state tour of the United States. Dallol is the perfect bridge to link thering awareness of the African dining halls and at the door. Gessesse, on bass and guitar respec­In 1984 the band received the those in the United States with famine and African culture than Dallal is the name of an eastern 
tively (they all share vocal duties) award for Best Reggae Band in the those who have less, and who are in only donating a lump sum. As African valley where temperatures -have come a long way from Chicago area at the Third Annual trouble of losing even that. RAST A also believes in the ap­are said to be the hottest in the playing together during their high International Reggae Arts Awards. RASTA plans to use the money propriateness of cultural events world. With a name like that, school years in Ethiopia. Dallol In 1985, the band went back to raised from the concert to initiate which show the ·universality of Dallol's music will claim that played in Ethiopia and other places Jamaica to record their debut specific projects with the hunger­African culture, and Dallol's music distin~tion for Stepan Center 
in Africa for three years before late album, Land of the Genesis. relief organizations Oxfam and imbues a sense of unity, RAST A's tomorrow night. 
features writer 

'West Side Story' power packed show 
Kevin O'Carroll, is killed by Doc, a local storekeeper, made the 
J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY Maria's brother Bernardo, played msot of his time on stage, as did features writer by Notre Dame sophomore Jack Tony Lawton as Schrank, the ever Blakely. Toni in turn kills Bernar­obnoxious detective, and David 
Last night the Notre Dame/Saint do. Scheidler as Officer Krupke. Mary's production of West Side There were two performancesStory opened in O'Laughlin 
Loeffler's performance was very 

that would have made the show ex­
good. His vocal performance grew Auditorium at Saint Mary's. These 

cellent by themselves. "Tonight"
will be the last productions of the to match his excellent acting performed by the entire cast in the 
season for the department of com­abilities. When singing with 

first act was very powerful. "Gee,
munications and theater at Saint Bradley, their voices complemented Officer Krupke" performed by
Mary's. each other very well, as seen in 

Action and the Jets in the second
"One Hand, One Heart." Bradley's The classic stage show is a 

act showed incredible creativity and 
modern day Romeo and Juliet, performance was excellent. From 

execution. These performances
her powerful "Tonight," to her in­modern to the 1950s. It revolves 

coupled with the extensive
spiring final scene Bradley carriedaround the troubled infatuation of 

choreography of "The Dance at the 
herself well, a Catholic American gang member 

Gym," and "Cool" made for a very
and the sister of the member of a Loeffler and Bradley's perfor­enjoyable show worth fighting to rival Puerto Rican gang. Their mance together were outdone only get tickets to see. 

"love" affair must face a fatal rum­by the superb performance of The main stage was extensive. 

ble of the two gangs. 

Lauren Longua as Anita, Ber­Moving balconies, and instant Toni, played by Notre Dame nardo's girl. Her singing, dancing bridal shops, drug stores and freshman Brian Loeffler, struggles 
and acting were nearly flawless and bedroom scenery showed 
to keep alive his love for Maria, done with incredible enthusiasm. painstaking precision adn efficien­played by Saint Mary's senior Blakely and O'Carroll worked cy in set design. 

Sarah Bradley. A bad situation is well together on stage adn were well The production continues made worse when Toni's best friend cast. O'Carroll's dancing was worth tonight, tomorrow and May 15, 16, 

Anybody's shakes it up with another Jet during yesterdays performance. 
Riff, played by Notre Dame senior notin·g. Robert Ellsworth, playing and 17 at 8:10p.m at O'Laughlin. 

Charity Ball sets $10 thousand goal 
Pratibha Tripathi "Father Hesburgh, William Relief Services decide where the "Danny Harrison came up with "Shenanigans will also be perfor­features staff writer Hickey, Roger Parent of South money will go, according to what the idea last year. Pat Collins and ming. The meal will be simple. The Bend, and (and other dignitaries) area the organization feels needs other students got together again event is non-alcoholic, although The second annual Notre Dame­will also speak at the charity ball," immediate attention," said Mazza. this year. This is our response to soft drinks and hors d'oeurves will Saint Mary's Charity Ball, with the said Karen Povinelli, co-publicity "This is the second year of this world hunger. We are hoping the be provided," said Povinelli. "The them Family Celebration of Life, director. ball. We raised $5,000 last year for students will back us up by atten­donations received at the dorm will take place tonight and as a Ethiopia," said Povinelli. ding," said Mazza. masses will also be given to
"The purpose of the ball is to

result of it numerous lives around "We have gotten a lot of ''We are striving to make Notre Catholic Relief Services." 
raise money, and also for Notre

the world will be sustained. Both cooperation from a lot of people. Dame a community. We want a "You do not necessarily have to
Dame and Saint Mary's to celebrate 

Notre Dame University and Saint We have rented the A.C.C. at a communiy response,~· he added. go with a date. We're encouraging
together. -It is for everyone, for the

Mary's College encourage everyone great discount. Coca Cola is spon­"It will be very well organized. students to go with friends or as a
students, faculty, administration,

to attend this worthwhile event to soring all the drinks. Student Like Junior Parents Weekend we section," said Mazza. "Af-ter all,
staff, and religious, civic leaders." 

aid the underpriveleged. Government and the Alumni hope it will become an annual the money will go to charity." 
"Lou Holtz is the honorary "The goal is to raise $10,000. The Association have helped out with event. We have many corporate The ball will be held from 9 p.m. chairman (of the Charity Ball)," money will be donated to Catholic other expenses." sponsors and dignitaries joining us to 1 a.m. at the Monogram Room said publicity director Mike Mazza. Relief Service for World Hunger," "The Bengal Bouts earned this year and we hope to carry it on of the A.C.C. At a cost of $5 per "He is a charismatic, impactic per­said Povinelli. $15,000 for charity. Our expense to next year." person and $8 a couple, tickets may son. He has expressed that he wants "Catholic Relief Services has for ~he ball is minimal because of "A group named "Everything" be purchased from hall represen­to be a part of the community. He places all over the world where all the donations we have received. will be providing the music, and tatives, the Alumni Association Of­is the new impact on campus, and there are people desperately in We hope to raise $10,000 from the like their name they play a bit of fice at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, we are happy to get him." need. We are letting the Catholic Charity Ball," said Mazza. everything." or at the ticket office at the A. C. C. 




Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 9  
,,Shouting "fairness from the sidelines down to as an amateur, notifiedbeen inapporpriate to continue to "tempering the wind for the shorn that good-hearted men have all the act and sound like a member of the lamb." More moral miracles take truth on their side, and that thosecounter-culture, denouncing the place by the midnight oil than thisFather Robert Griffin dissenting with them qualify asPresident, as though all the world dreams of. money changers doing business onpeacemakers wore lovebeads, and I've tried to do some homework onLetters to a Lonely God sacred ground. Graham Greenenone of them wore uniforms, if South Africa by extensive reading. wrote: "Human nature is not blackthey wanted to be counted as The reading wouldn't be worth and white, but black and gray.children of God. l often seem to be a source of sur­the ROTC students in uniform Goodness has only once found amentioning except as a sign of con­"Judge not, that ye be not judg­prise and irritation to people whose coming to daily Mass: obviously it perfect incarnation in a humancern in asking: "what if divestment ed," said Christ, warning us to stayrespect and affection I would like was their war, too. My mother body and never will again, but evil doesn't work in the way it's suppos­qualified for His mercy. Yet, smug to have. I am saddened by the let­wrote that Mac, the kid from next can always find a home there."ed to? What if the effect of divest­with the conviction that we areters which tell me I'm a disappoint­door who used to do her errands, Does it sound like an impertinencement is to increase the suffering ofclose to God's will, we use the in­ment to assorted types of prophets died in the war. At 18, as a new ar­to ask prophets to be fair instead ofthe disposed, either from furthertemperate language, "Abortion ison fire with zeal. Our world needs rival to Vietnam, he hardly abusive? I'm so tired of hearing the starvation, or as victims of an in­murder," the posters read in the last prophets ready to go to the wall in qualified as a baby-burner; in fact, bullying form soap boxes andtensifying blood bath?" Things arecampaign, as though this were thedefense of their passion. Notre he thought he was defending his bandwagons, as though pain andalready so tragically bad; yettruth as Christians tell it, leavingDame has fielded some of the best country. evil were the private discoveries ofBotha has, they say, threatened you sick to your stomach with theof them, and I don't mean to get in the shouters. that the government could unleashunfairness of extremists.their way. They are quick to tell me Those times had their domestic some new, terrible force against the "The Irish are very fair people,"I don't know what I'm talking heroes, who protested the war in "Hypocrisy" is another of the self­blacks. One writer offers a terrify­Dr. Johnson wrote. "They neverabout as I shout to them from the the streets. Some of them were righteous words. Society is unfair ing analogy: imagine what Hitler's spea!C well of one another." "Yousidelines: "Be fair." penalized by being sent to prison, to minorities; the world is not made treatment of the Jews could have always speak well of everybody," awhere, reportedly, they were to serve the tall, the fat, the left­been like, if he had had the atomic  

Fairness is one of the courtesies that gets trampled when the forces of light battle the darkness of Ar­mageddon. The desire for fairness seems to mean that you've broken as a weapon even while you're be­ing used in the war against anti­Chris!. Wanting to be fair shows you're on anti-Christ's side without knowing it. 
Vietnam was undoubedly one of our country's two great tragedies. I did my share of protesting during Vietnam, sometimes sounding as though I'd been appointed the morale officer to the flower children. Then I began to notice treated roughly. Other kids, going to the green hell, paid an ever higher price. Years later, Viet­nicks, standing at their Wailing Wall in Washington with tears streaming down their cheeks, gave us their version of history. "We were drafted to fight a war that the country hated, and watched our buddies die in the rot of the jungle. When we came home, college students spit in our faces and called us murderers." 
Vietnam was a mess we shouldn't have gotten into. My job was to be all things to all students asking for the grace of Christ. ~I would have handed and the smokers. Notre Dame is unavoidably a microcosm of the injustices dating from crea­tion, which are passed down from one generation to another, like the effects of origianl sin. Juding from the criticism, you'd think the University invented the human con­dition. I hate the injustice which puts us all on trial as hypocrites op­posed to brotherhood, human rights and fair-mindedness for the fellow with the cross on his back. Love has never meant that anything goes, as though the Lord hadn't showed us what love means by shouldering a cross. "Bear ye one another's burden," we are urged, bomb. The writer asks, perhaps ir­responsibly as an alarmist: "Is this what Botha's threat means?" 

Informed opinion seems to say: "Things could get worse for the blacks, before they get better, if divestment costs them their jobs, as it easily could." Does anyone know how bad the worse could be? In a century of genocides and holocausts, can we ever be sure that the worst is not yet to come? 
Simple Simon, to his own great surprise, asks question of the doc­tors in the Temple. Simple Simon would appreciate not being talked 
-
' 

neighbor told an old lady. "You'd have words of praise for the devil himself." 
"You have to admit," the old lady replied, "he's a hard worker." 
Being fair, I suspect, gets us closer to the truth than the cheap shots do. Truthfulness is what the work­ing conscience searches for. It wouldn't be untruthful to hope that all of us do the best we can. 
Giants make their marks on this campus. God bless the giants. May they find peace at eveing after the battles and trials of the day. I hope they know they have admirers who watch them from afar. 
"The Gipper' s Ghost: the final chapter They crossed the 30, near the west sideline. Editor's note: USC still had to kick the ball. There might Shenandoah Lee's defense scored the next The 20. The Notre Dame band was seatedbe time for one last play. Probably one.This is the 24th andfinal episode in two points. The ensuing kickoff had been almost directly above them.In an unusual move, Coach Kelly sent Col­The Observer's serial publication ofthf downed at the USC two. The Trojans were The band struck up "The Victory March."lins, the best scrambler on the team, toNotre Dame football story, "The held for no gain, then a one-yard loss. On Collins and his blockers heard it. Emo­receive.third and 11, the quarterback was sacked in Gipper's Ghost," by Notre Dame tions surged within them and energy with it. The ball rose and fell to earth. It tumbledthe end zone.graduate Robert Quakenbush. In this With renewed purpose, they advancedtoward Collins. USC 24-ND 10. toward the goal. One by one, Collins'episode we celebrate the Notre Dame To his left, he saw Shenandoah Lee goThe Irish got the ball back. Another vic­blockers went down, but each man took anvictory over the first-ranked Trojans. down under the onslaught of USC rushers.tory march. Collins scored the touchdown. opponent with him. Moose Carrigan was theCrafty Troy Achilles was taking no chancesThe PAT was good. last to fall, at the ten. ND fired up on a lateral.USC 24-ND 17. Only "Raging Bull' Karlson, USC's three­Collins raced for the ball. If it rolled out"Gentlemen, there are 30 minutes of foot­The defense had become a wall. Again, time All-American gorilla, and his 255of bounds, the game could be over. ball left. If you're in need of a standard, I'll USC was forced to punt. pounds of solid muscle stood between 6 foot,It was all up to Hart Collins now, alone atgive you one. 25 points. Do you measure Notre Dame took possession. Collins 2 inch, 185 pound Hart Collins and a Notrethe Notre Dame one.up?" led another drive. Dame victory! He lowered his head and charged the twoMaking up for lost time now, Collins fired Then he was silent. Out of the corner of his eye, Collins glimp­Trojans coming at him full speed. Hesix consecutive strikes from a shotgun for­sed the figure of Dutch Reagan, leaning onHart Collins had taken a towel. Slowly, knocked one out of bounds and wriggledmation. From the USC three, he hit O'Con­his crutches. He heard Dutch call to him.almost reverently, he had been rubbing his free of the other. nor over the middle. Touchdown! "Do it for the old Gipper!"helmet. He had polished it until it gleamed. He scrambled to his left. Four yardsThe Trojans grew dangerous. The try for Collins turned "Raging Bull" into SuitingHe pulled it over his head and firmly fasten­down. Only 95 to ~to.two was stopped by a savage assault of USC Bull.ed the chinstra . linebackers. He regained his balance and sprinted into the end zone. Touchdown Notre Dame! usc 24-ND 23. ~~~~~~a~~~a~;;~The Glpper's Ghos~ On the Irish sideline, Father Rock said to ~ No time remained on the clock. The final Dutch, "Darn! We'll hear about that one. score was ND 29-USC 27. God just hates it when Catholics foul up con-~~fitil~~ A joyous celebration surrounded HartChopter25 W version attempts!" ~~!I~;P Collins. The campus was bathed in a golden Dutch was optimistic. "Relax, Rock. A~ light. If one looked hard enough, one could "Men of Notre Dame, follow me." field goal will win it." detect a slight smile on the face of The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame That is, if Notre Dame had made the next ~.L6.A~ Touchdown Jesus as He overlooked the thundered onto the field. field goal. '"""'""""'~'tl,'f)l~\ stadium from the mural covering the south Hart Collins removed any final doubts in USC powered its way into Notre Dame face of the Memorial Library. the first huddle of the half. territory. The Trojans kept the ball on the . Knute Rockne tapped Dutch Reagan on One of the guards had said, "Do you know ground, stripping precious minutes from the 1 the shoulder. what the odds are of outscoring USC in the clock. The line play became a bruising, "It's time to go, George," he said, "Our second half? No one, I mean no one, has punishing struggle as the Notre Dame job is done." scored as much as a field goal against them defenders attempted to steal the ball away "But Rocke, what about the bowl game ..." in the second half all season long." from the surehanded USC tailback, Rocket ~:~~~~~~:.:./ "Sorry, George, but God wants to meet Collins uttered five words. Crockett. you right away. He wants to get you started "Never tell me the odds!" Crockett breaks free! A game-saving on your next mission. It's a permanent Collins and his team were now gripped tackle by Shenandoah Lee! assignment. I think you'lllike it." with emotion. He released it with passes to First and goal from the Notre Dame four. Dutch looked longingly at the pressbox. Ryan O'Connor and other Irish receivers. Three times USC battered at Notre Dame's "Is there enough time to say goodbye to Shenandoah Lee led a swarming defense defensive wall, and three times "Our Lady's Nicki?" Tough Guys" slammed them back. Ahead of him, the Irish battled Trojans.that smothered the Trojans time after time. "I wish there was, George."Freshman middle linebacker Moose Car-Three red jerseys approached. He fled for Each time the Trojans attacked, they were Rockne looked up and waved. In a flash rigan substituting for the injured Dutch the protection of blue ones. repelled. of heavenly light, Knute Rockne and GeorgeReag~n on defe~se, caught Crockett in mid­"No_clips, gu~s," he ~e~led, "no penalties!"A flea-flicker turned into a 50-yard gain as Gipp vanished from the earth. air when he tried to use his center as a tram­Coll~ns and ~1s remammg blockers crossed the Irish traveled 91 yards on seven plays on From "'The Gipprr~ Ghost, • copyright /985 bypoline and leap into the end zone. the 50 mto ~SC turf. .their next possession. They added a two­Ro!Nrt Quakenbush. Publishm by O'ConnorUSC went for the sure field goal. It was "fhe ~roJans had nearly overcommitted.point conversion to make the score USC 24­good! There m1ght be a chance. Publishing Co. Reprinted by prrmission. NDS.  

The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986-page 10 
7ht• (Jhst•rt·er :\otn· D.tnu· uUit.c l•1c.Jtt.:ll un tht: rtunl fluor ul Lth,rlunc.: ~IU<.It'lll ( l'll(l'f. Jcn·ph tla"ltit•tf Jth l'fll"ll!( !rum<) J m 1111111 I p m . \lundJ\ throu~:h I ntlJ\ I he I lhserr·t•r ~Jill! .\IJn ·, uffltt· lut.ttnl un lht· tlurd !lour ut IIJ!(!(Jr ( :ullt'!(t' < l'llll'f. Jttt·ph tl.""tin" Irom 12 ~~~pIll 1111111 .~ p-111. \tun tl.l\ ihuu~:h l·nda\ lh-Jtlillll' tor Ill'""·" tl.l"llinl' " ~ rIll .\11 •'·""linb tllll'"l ht· prt·p.Iu.l. t:lllu: r 111 pt-r,on 11r In m.ul ( hJrgl ,... I 0 ll'llh pt:r II\ t' c. turJl



Classifieds 
1.-r' t·r UJ\ 

- NOTICES TypingAvllllllble 287-<4012 TYPBIG CALLCHNB 234-lle7. Wordpnlcelslno-TJII!ng 272-8827 ································································ Typing/Wordprocllllng 277-8131 GOVERNMENT HOMES II'Om 11 (U r.pllir). Aieo delinqulnl tax property. CeR 1105-aHIOOO ext. GH-11834 lor lnlonna­llon. WOAD PROCESSING SERVICE -Quick turnaround Is our specialty! $2.25/page, volume price break. Let· ter quality print. Call 277·3252 after 4:00. TYPING -Fast, High-Quality. Call 287-9257. PRO·TYPE -15 yrs. exp. student & law papers, resumes, dissertations. 277-5833. arcadia  Found one basketball at Lyons courts on Sunday April 20th, after Air Monyak vs. Armed and Dangerous game. Call John at 2151. FOUND: sweater. also three pairs of gloves. identify and claim at dispatch window In the computing center. lost: diamond pendant In the area by the Security Office and Power Pla,o,t. It has great sentimental value, soli found please call Krls at 3617 or 3354. LOST: ONE GAUDY RHINESTONE CLIP-ON EARRING. IF FOUND CALL JULIE x4570. LOST -large set of keys at Stepan picnic Sat. Keychaln has duck on II. If found call Tim 3132. FOUND: Blue and brown Indian necklace near Lyons Hall on 4/30. Call Tim at 2530 to claim. LOST:WIIson Indoor/Outdoor basket· ball (Super Shot model) during quarterfinal game between Lee's BBQ and Embarasslng Stains at Bookstore Courts on Friday, April 25. If found, please call Mark at 1515. FOUND: COMP·MATH BLDG, A HEWLETT PACKARD CALCULATOR -CHECK LOST & FOUND A LARGE BANNER BELONGING TO THE NO CHAPTER OF PHI BETA KAPPA HAS BEEN TAKEN FROM THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM LOUNGE. THIS BANNER IS NEEDED FOR THE INITIATION CEREMONIES FOR NEW MEMBERS. PROMPT RETURN OF THE BANNER TO THE PROPER LOCATION WOULD BE GREATLY APPRECIATED BY ALL  FURNITURE FOR SALE: 5ft plaid couch, 4ft brown couch, both in great shape. Lg recliner, chair, bookcase, m ore. LOW PRICES, MUST SELL! Rob or Andy 272~783. AXES FOR SALE Fender Rhodes 73 Stage Electric Piano, Sequential Circuits Max Synth, Peavey 120 watt Amp, MIDI­Macintosh Interface. Call John Bat 4531. 80 AMC SPIRIT: 4 CYLINDER, 4 SPEED, Am/FM CASSETIE, RUNS and DRIVES GOOD, LADY DRIVEN, $1800, 288~117 or259-7256. FOR SALE: King 4B trombone. Sym­phony quality instrument. F attach· ment. $700 or best offer. Call Kelly at 233-5284 evenIngs. FOR SALE: Olds tenor trombone. Stu· dent Instrument. Marching lyre and music stand included $100. Call Kelly at 233·5284 evenings. FOR SALE: 1976 AUDI FOX $800 CALL BILL 1202 BUY A WHITE KNIGHT Road quality, handcrafted white guitar chorda, most sizes, limited supply, wholesale prices, for lnfor SASE White Knight, P.O. Box 473, Marion, lA 52302-0473 5-bedroom house. Fully furnished. All appliances and furniture included. Great Investment. Nice neighborhood. 4 miles from N.D. $22,000. Call evenings 268·3109. 76 chrysler stationwagon make offer 272-7723:  PERSONALS Mike, Steve, Mark, & Vince -Hafa adudes! Thanx for making frosh year fun! The party's not over not over yet· 3 more yearsl We luv you! -your "P.W. chics" The Green Avenger Strikes NEW JERSEY CLUB LUGGAGE TRUCK NEW JERSEY CLUB LUGGAGE TRUCK Info will follow In newsletter coming this weekend. Loading Sat May 10. Questions? Call John(4013) or Jerry (4274). ZONKEA I'M NOTIII (See "Ticket" section) HAPPY BIRTHDAY to that Pangborn God, BRIAN DUFFY! Hope you have an Incredibly lntoxlc~ted one! Love, Colleen and friends In P.E. The Mr. Stanford Day Barbecue!!! Tomorrow from 4:30-6:30 join the Studs for burgers and hot dogs In front of Stanford. Don't forget the Mr. STANFORD CONTEST tomorrow night at 7:30!!! July 20: Summer B-day Woman! T.O.D. ! Go BOB for UMOC!! HAPPY SUMMER BIRTHDAY to Mom of Pup and Bun!! Hope you get a lap desk soon! Ar-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-lva! II! Love, the Roomies THE BEST OF BAR MONTH  It's not just a job. Drivers needed to deliver The Observer next semester. Drivers needed for every day of the week. Must be available from 11 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. Paid position. If In· terested fill out an application at The Observer office or call Mark at 2450. RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK Charity Bell Charity Bell Charity Bell ND/SMC CHARIT\' BALL A family celebration oflife Soturday, May 1 at the ACC. Get iavolvod aow, ······························~········· ..····················· OAR HOUSE: COLD BIER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.ll. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK BOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ................................................................ Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Spm·12am Monday-Thursday; Spm·2am Friday, 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm·10prtl Sunday. MONEY! MONEY! MONEY! SAB needs stage hands For May 5 concert. Make $4.00 an hour Call Eric, Bill or Mike at 1380 IS YOUR BIKE IN HORRIBLE SHAPE?  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TESS BABY Yes, it's that time of the year again. Time for a midnight trip to the dunes, and another visit to Senior Bar. This Is the girl who was the ONLY person to have the distinction of being St. Mary's EXECUTIVE editor of The Observer. Her boyfriend's an ex· ecutive himself. What a pair! She loves to sing while eating everything in sight. Happy Birthday Tessarinol Love, your future roommate. N.S.H.P. c1ptalna, thanks lore great year. Ple1se return Yin keys to the Center lor SOCII I Concerns. Thanks. Tom MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM· MEA! TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call 272·8280 weekends, 272-9181 weekdays. M.A. Buon divertimento tantl auguri TOCCAATE G-1 have the key to your steel something or another. Now Is this the CHASTITY Ball or the CHARITY Ball? ·M NEED A JOB THIS SUMMER? LIVE IN MILWAUKEE? Work on the lakelront, flexible hours. Call 1264 (Kristen) for Info, Interview. HEY YOU! This Is not an Ice creeam job. This Is not pots, pan, knives, diet programs or construction work. It's an opportunity to make lots and lots of money if you are a self starter and  
CI..ASU'IIDS FOR THE NEXl PUIIU8HING DAY WILL BE AC­c.PnDUNTIL 2 P.ll. DAILY.  CONCERNED. LOST: ONE CAMERA  ON  GREEN  ·fo1ACINTOSH 400K EXTERNAL DRIVf $260.00 PAT 283-4255  "If a girl does something, give her a tip...it's got to get physical."  WANT x4570  TO  SELL  IT?  CALL  JULIE  aggressive. Write or call AE, Inc., Box 9161, Fargo NO 58109 or 701-293­1041.  
EiCPiifiT....iY"PiNG....s.eRViCe:....c:AU. MRS. COKER. 233-7008.  FIELD, SATURDAY · 4/26/86 · IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANN AUSTRIA AT 284-4048 ASAP!  "I gave him a lot of refills...l really did."  FUN. . .Come to West Side Story Thursday or Saturday. I'll be the usher in the white-collared dress.  The times they are a chang in' Ken Kesey read the I'Ching He said a shock is comln'  
LOST/FOUND I LOST: KEY CHAIN with yellow "Grace Hall' tag at party on Colfax St. or on campus. Without them I can't open my room, mailbox, c~r, or house. Please help me by calling 283­3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. REWARDS! LOST: SMC ring on Fri. 4/25. Please call 284·5178 If found. REWARD Lost: WATCH on Fri . 4/25: Leather (pigskin) band with white face and black roman numerals. I worked so hard to buy It so please call If found. Jamle-284·5246. Thankyou!  USS NO lifesaving ring taken out of South Dining Hall Friday Is worthless to you but most valuable to the owner. Please return to either dining hall -no questions asked. LOST: yellos "grace hall" key chain. Please call 283-3810 for reward or leave with rector, Fr. Lardner. Thank you I lost a large set of keys last week on a gold NO chain. If found call John at 272-3388. <=ound: Caslo watch 4/27 at Stepan yourts. Call Steve 4386to claim. WANTED  FOR RENT 3 bedroom apartment, summer only. Fully furnished, 10 min from NO, beautiful. $300 mo 233 6298 (even­ings) HOUSE FOR RENT In Leeper Park May 15-Aug 22. $310/mo. utll. Inc. Ideal for 2. 287-4024 FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 House lor summer or next year, 1 mi. N. of campus. $125/mo. 674-6595 after5p.m. SUMMER. 8 BDRM HOME. 272-6306  "If you want to talk to the geese you've got to speak their language." "I don't know about this guys. I feel •ery limited." "I don't even hava a roommate anymore. I live with a pile of clothes." "Let's just do it with two, man." "When I was in the womb I used to watch pro wrestling every Saturday night." "I'm getting hot just watching these guys." "Who's that strange chick?" MORE OF THE BEST OF BAA MONTH"I'm getting hot just wat· chlng these guys." "When I was In the womb I used to watch pro wrestling every Saturday night."  WEST SIDE STORY...Brian, Lauren, David, Cathy, the upstart, Ted, Jack and the rest of you nutty theatre fags -Best of luck from your faithful fan. Have a great show. JAR 0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr great in vlrt"e and rich In miracles near kinsrroan of Jesus Christ. Faithful intercessor of all who invoke yc. ur special patronage in time of need. To you have recourse from thy depth of my heart and humbly beg whcmGod has given such great power to come to my assistance. Help me in my present and urgent petition. In return I promise to make your name known and cause you to be Invoked. Say three Our Fathers, three Hall Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. Publication musf be promised. Pray for us and all who Invoke your ald. Amen. This noven1 hal never been know to I ell. Th1nk you St. Jude HELP!II I NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX WILL  Domer's Green Revolution. "Do I love you? Yes, I love you!" Tinseltown In /he Rain The Blue Nile Thank You St. Joseph darling chrissyness: all this time at NO and no classified? a last minute save! with the sole exception of the bros. K, your presence has brighten· ed my dreary law school days, thanks for everything. much love, a. cathy DARREN/ERIC: Thanks for the walks, the talks, the Ice cream, and motlvatlon .. not to mention three weeks of constant laughter. You make me .. oh, so very happy. Have a good day. Mabel MB·CHEER UP, THE WEEK IS ALMOST OVER. JUST THINK OF THE DUNES AND THE ZARF PARTY ON SATURDAY. LET'S GO  
LOST CANON SURESHOT CAMERA LAST THURSDAY BETWEEN GRACE, P.E. AND P.W. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL CATHY AT 3442.  Are you leaving lor the summer? Does your home/apt. need T.l.C. while your gone? Responsible N.D. staffer will live In or look after your place. Lets make a deal! Patti 2396318 2341229  TICKETS FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TIXS BEST OFFER 289-1417 B4 11PM  "We decided that when we play you can only use one arm." "He's not scum. He's a doctor." "I don't know. I've never been raided."  PAY$$ CALL ED-272-0828 FOR SALE 4 COMMENCEMENT TIXS BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FOR USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P.O. BOX 964 NO, IN 46556 B4 05107/86  CAAZY!!!!·PAN SMC ORIENTATION NEEDS NO MOVERS · Any guys Interested In helping SMC freshmen move Into their dorms please call: Maura 284· 4380 or Kathy 284-5411.  
Found:  Casio  watch  4/27  at  Stepan  Susan, Congrats on Senior Bar.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY TESS GUARINO!  
Courts. Call Sieve 4364 to claim. Found one basketball at Lyons courts on Sunday April 20th, after Air Monyak vs.  SOUTH BEND'S FINEST RECORD STORE NEEDS PERSON WITH STRONG MUSIC BACKGROUND,  Need Graduation Tix Desperately!!! WILL PAY ANY PRICE!!! John4057  THANK YOU ST. JUDE  NEED BEER MONEY? I NEED GRAD TIXI BILL 277-5817  LOVE,MJ ANN GULLANS TURNS 21 THIS WEEKEND! GENTLEMEN STAAT  
Armed Danaerous game.  Call John at  AFTERNOONS,  EVENINGS  &  NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE·  YOUR ENGINES!  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
2UI. FOUND: Small, furry, cuddly, really cute white bunny with black spots. 'likes popcorn and carrots. Refuses to poop on the paper. Call 3209. Ask for Bud.  WEEKENDS. MAIL OR BAING RESUME TO TRACKS, 1631 E. EDISON, SOUTH BEND, IN 46637. NEED AIDE TO BALTIMORE, PHILADELPHIA, OR CHERRY HILL,  MENT EXERCISES. WIU PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 277-o417, EVES. BEFOAE10. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . Wanted! One GRAD and SAT. Night dinner ticket. Michelle 289-4445.  WEST SIDE STORY NEEDS YOU! Ushers Are Needed For All Nights Of Performance, May 1,2, And 3. Also For May 15, 16, And 17. NO EX· PERIENCE NECESSARY! Call Annie At 284-4303 For Details. ······························  I'LL ASK YOU NO QUESTIONS SO TELL ME NO LIEST TO SEE WHAT I FEEL WHEN I LOOK IN YOUR EYES I AM FIRE. WON'T YOU COME OUT AND PLAY WITH ME?  ANN! LOVE, MJ (P.S. TRY NOT TO MUMBLE THIS WEEKEND) TONY LOVESMAAIA TONY LOVES MARIA MAY 1,2,3 and 15,16,17. at O'LAUGHLIN  
N.J. AFTER COMMENC. WKND. MAY 18 or 19. Call Monlka 3772  NEED  COMMENC.  TIX.  All SIBL·  SENIOR MONTH T-SHIRTS!! Will be on sale at Senior Bar Thurs­ To the Observer Production Depart· ment:  TESSIE BABY ·I JUST WANTED TO WISH YOU A VERY HAPPY BIRTH·  
LOST;  Blue  and  gold  Pony  sweat  INGS  IN  FAMILY  OF 18 COMING.  May 1 and Sat -May 3$7.00  Thanks lore greet job!  DAY!  YOU ARE TAUELY A SPECIAL  
jacket at slam-dunk contest. No. 30 on the tag. Would appreciate If returned. Contact Jeff at 3251 or 3252. LOST.. LOST.. LOST.. LOST I lost my keys Thursday during An Tostal at SMC. They might be on the grass or they might have been In the women's room of Haggar (don't askll). There were four keys on a  SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, Adams High School. One-hall mile from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two practices per dayk, live days/wk. Ap­prox. $1900. Call Mr. Priybycz at 288­4655. Need ride to Sarasota, Florida, Call Rob 1772  PLEASE HELP! WILL PAY$ CLETUS 232-8253. . N~ieo CiiiA'o riX'oR· iooN;,: ori·,;;,. PLAID PANTS! II CALL CHRIS AT 3152,3171 or 2170. I need Commencement tlxs Please call Geoff 289-3499  HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATE GRAFF! LOVE, MJ, LISA, AND THE REST OF THE 5 NORTH GANG ND/SMC CHARITY BALL A family celebtatlon of life Saturday, May 2 at the ACC. Get Involved now.  MARK, PHIL, ANDI, ANDY, JANE ANNE, MEliSSA, ALICE, KATHY, TRACY, ROB L., ROB B., MARY R., SHARON, CAROL, CAREY, MARIA, MELINDA, end LAURA. See you ell next year! -Chris  FRIEND AND DESERVE All THE BEST IN LIFE. THIS SURE DOES SOUND CORNY, BUT THEN YOU HAVE ALWAYS SAID THAT I WAS TOO BIZARRE! LOVE ALWAYS, PETER PAN AKA 'PETE' AKA DEBBIE Mike-class is now over, but I'm still thinking of you. HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY NUMBER  
leather key ring. If found please call Jim Winkler at 1107 or come to 231. alumni. FOUND FOUND FOUND Gold Cross Pen With Initials EMG. Saw add before did not get number. Call Rob 1780 LOST: A PAIR OF "PRO" SUN GLASSES ON THE DAY OF THE FIRST SOURCE CAR SHOWING AT THE ACC. THESE WERE BROWN WITH MACHING CAOAKIES. A SIX PACK OF MOLSON TO THE FINDER. BOOGER AT 272·2486. LOST: SILVER SEIKO WATCH, SOMEWHERE BETWEEN GRACE  SMALL REFAIG. NEEDED, CALL CATH 284·4086 RIDERS NEEDED to rent a car to Long Island-NYC area. Leaving May 10. Call Brian 2560 One or two females wanted to share 3 bedroom house, close to campus, available In May. Half rent is $137.50 plus utilities. If Interested call Cindy at 233-5168. Leave message. FOR SALE  ZONKER I'M NOT! II I wouldn't blow millions In lottery win· nlngs on my uncle "Duke" (and mine's not a zombie), but I am willing to spend some bucks to get him a com· mencement ticket. Call 291-11397 and don't ask for Zonker. NEED GRADUATION TIX. Will TRADE CONFIRMED RESERVATION AT MAAAIOTI & $$$ FOR 2 TIX. CALL ROB AT 1561. Desperately need COMMENCEMENT TIX. 4 grandparents, 2 parents, aunt and uncle coming. Offering big $. PLEASE call Tom at 283-1867. I need 3 grad tlxl please help! call 3727.  CELLAR CLEARANCE SALE Today the cellar will be clearing out Inventory at wholesale prices. Stora open from 11:30 . 4:30. ..\ii-'Ji,.jii6N .'..\i.i... oFf:.. c..\i.1Pus STUDENTS FROM CONNECTICUT: For lnfor. concerning the baggage truck, contact Martha Walsh at 2670. ili.i8·N9ed'ed rei ·c:,;,'c&lio: i.i&v ·2 · · Call Beth 284·5439. AASTA T -SHIRTS Available this week at tha dining hallel  Mr. Stanford Contest! Mr. Stanford Contest! Mr. Stanford Contest! Mr. Stanford Contest! Coming Sat. May 3rd 7:30pm at Washington Hall! LOST:' ......................... . GOLD BRACELET -LOOKS LIKE A THIN FLAT 4" PIECE OF GOLD WHEN UNLATCHED. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SHARON AT 4346. ................................. MM-DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM? -r~· ~j,· ~~·r· i;,~~d~· ~h~ ·h~ip~ ·~~i: THANKS FOR MAKING 'ESPIRir A  17!!! THIS IS TO WISH YOU AND THE "SQUISHY" UTILE GUY A HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IT'S ALSO TO THANK YOU FOR A GREAT YEAR AND ALL THE GOOD TIMES. I HOPE THEY NEVER END! JUST REMEMBER, YOU AND I ARE WORTH THE WAIT!! CAN'T WAIT TILL W~ CELEBRATE AT HOME! LOVE ALWAYS, "BABES" JOE DONNELY ·I COULDN'T HAVE HAPPENED TO A "NICER" GUY! TO THAT CUTE, BLONDE GIRL I SAW SITTING ALONE ON THE BOATHOUSESTEP ON AN TOSTAL SATURDAY. I THINK YOU HAVE THE MOST BEAUTIFUL BLUE EYES! I WAS THE GUY ON THE BIKE THAT ASKED YOU THE TIME.  
AND  THE  LIBRARY.  LOST  LAST  SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$$  SUCCESS  
WEEKEND X4080 BILL  and  CREDITI!I  Cliff  notes  available.  DESPERATELY SEEKIN SUSANII Or  LOVE,  HAPPY  21st  BIRTHDAY  TO  
PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend  anyone else who can  sell  me  two  Julie, Jeanne Marie, Ana, Terri  MICHELLE CURTIN  · LITS NOT BE  
!!!LOST!!!  Ave. 233-2342.  commencement tickets. My parents  GLAMOUR POSTERS. Don't let that  STRANGERS! LOVE,PEG!  
A PAIR OF GREY SUNGLASSES  have already been shut down for din·  special guy or girl forget you during  
AT  FOR SALE • l..W loft, finished  and  ner tickets Saturday night. let them  the summer! Give a photo poster by  SENIORS  
RIGHT RIGHT SIDE, SOUTH DINING HALL. CALL KATHLEEN X 2885.  stained, bilck vinyl"'"-!, and 2.-.  watch their favorite youngest son graduate. HELP· Call Paul at 277·  nationally published model photographer, Joe Ringer. 287-0613.  Need ticket to GREAT AMERICA this Sunday?  see ADS, page 15  
REWARD OFFERED.  Clll Sheila at272-1068  1913.  II so, call Terl at 3031  

The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 11 
Sports Briefs 
All Bengal Hooters, past and present, are asked to make an effort to attend the funeral of Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano, the founder of and continuing inspiration behind the Bengal Bouts, who passed away on Wednesday. The service begins tomorrpw at 10 a.m. in Sacred Heart Church and the 1986 Boxing Club will be assembling at the Main Circle from 9:15 to 9:30a.m. Please try to be on time. -The Observer 
Cavanau2h Hall captured the interhalllacrosse cham­pionship Wednesday night with a 5-2 victory over Off-Campus. Alex Cano and Paul Kostolansky notched two goals apiece for the Cavemen, while Corny Southall added one. Coach Kevin O'Con­nor's team used strong defensive play and a solid game from goalie Tom Vasti to seal the victory. -The Observer 
Sullivan 
continuedfrom page 16 
levels. I faced her five times this season." 
Sullivan, who started fencing at the age of 10, credits her success to her hometown club, Tanner City Fencing Club, and her former coach, Joe Pechinsky. 
"The club was fantastic, and (Pechinsky) has sent four fencers to the Olympics. The sport is strong in our area, and he has a top junior over each of the last ten years. He also coached four present Notre Dame fencers, including Janice Hynes, Charles Hicks, Don Johnson and Tom Vaughn." Sullivan, ranked in the top 10 
senior fencers in the nation, will compete in Nationals this June. She will continue to compete on the Olympic point system in order to qualify for the University Games and the Pan-Am Games next year, and ultimately for the '88 Olympic team. 
Under the point system, five ma­jor meets are scored each year, and 


Pinkett 
continuedfrompage 16 
Things were relatively simple for 
Pinkett in those days four years ago 
when he and his classmates first 
came to play for ex-head coach 
Gerry Faust. Faust, secure in his 
job, watched Pinkett burst on the 
scene with some dazzling rookie 
running and then get most of the 
media attention. This year, 
however, Pinkett often became the 
reluctant team spokesman for 
media probing into the reactions of 
the players to Faust's steadily 
deteriorating job security. 
"It was strange because week 
after week it wasn't how well we 
had played, just what the situation 
with Coach Faust was," he said. 
the lowest finish is dropped. Points are accumulated over a fencer's career. 
Aside from being named an alternate to the '85 Junior World Olympic team last spring, Sullivan 
• has competed in the '84 Junior World Olympics in Switzerland. She is also a former Junior Olym­pics champion in the under-16 category. 
"A lot of girls on the team were disappointed because they could not pick up points against Penn in the NCAA meet," said Sullivan. 
FOR FASI RELIEF FROM 


BURGER BOREDOM,
TAKE TWO OF THESE. 


r-----n r-----n 
INachos BellGrandel 1 Burrito Supreme"' 1 
or · andIPizzazz PizzaTM $1.791 I regular taco $1.99 I 
I Please present this coupon when I I Please present this coupon when I ordering. Limit: One ordering. Limit: One 
I coupon per person I I coupon per person I per visit. Not good • • per visit. Not good • • with any other offer. -----w1th any other offer. ----­1 
Cash redemption value !If~,-I I Cash redemption value ~ I is V20th cent. Good is V20th cent. Good
,..."CO ,..."CO
only at participating 1ft only at participating 1ft

I Taco BeU"resraurants. 11ELL I I Taco BeU"resraurants. 11ELL I Offerexpires 6/1/86 ., Offerexpires 6/1/86 " 
© 1986 Taco ~~~ Corp



1.-----.1 1.-----.1
Feeling tired, listless, in a mealtime rut? Maybe it's time you stopped heading to burger places every time your stomach grumbled. And started heading to Taco Bell for some relief. Taco Bell00 food is delicious, it's different and it's a great value. Especially if you start your treatment by clipping these two coupons and using them at any participating Taco Bell00 restaurant. 
You'll feel so good, you won't have to call us in the morning. 

52200 US 31 N South Bend 
And all participating South Bend area Taco Bell Restaurants 
"We as players just tried to ignore it but I think some of the players may have been hurt by it all." 
Pinkett, however, took it all in stride and kept carrying the ball and Irish hopes. He finished his career as the Notre Dame leader in rushing attempts, rushing yards, rushing touchdowns, total touchdowns, total points, and in several other categories. In addi­tion, his 17-yard burst against Ar­my last Oct. I9, which pushed him over Vagas Ferguson as all-time rusher, provided a stirring memory for all fans who had viewed his suc­cesses for four years. 
"The impact of the record really hasn't hit me yet," said Pinkett. "I owe it to the guys on the line of scrimmage who paved the way. It was just me trying to help Notre Dame win and I guess the records came in the event of that." For Pinkett, who follows sophomore basketball player David Rivers as recipient of the Krause Award, still greater challenges ap­pear on the horizon. This summer, teh third-round draft choice of the Houston Oilers will attempt to gain a spot on the roster of the NFL club. It will be just another obstacle to run around, and Pinkett, no doubt, will do it with class and style. 
"I'll miss this place but I'm look­ing forward to moving on and fac­ing up to the one heck of a challenge that awaits me," he said. "One thing I'll always have with me, though, is the pleasant memories of this place. And I just hope I can continue to represent the Notre Dame community well." 
"But we have come a long way. We are not losing anyone next year, 

Lacrosse
and we will definitely win the team title." continuedfrom page 16 
Sullivan is reserved about her and Shields. They kept constant
success this season. "I am surprised pressure on the goal and made theabout all this, and I really don't most of their opportunities." 
know what to think of it. My vic­tories have always been a personal The win raised Notre Dame'sthing." 
overall record to 9-3, and an unblemished 5-0 Great Lakes Con­Last year's recepient of the ference record. Ohio State fell to 6­Krause Award was senior basket­7, 3-1 in the conference. 
ball player Trena Keys, Notre Dame's all-time scoring leader. 


The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986-page 12 
..,_----STRUCTURAL/MECHANICAL------I .----------------------------.
ENGINEERS 
lmpell Corporation is a consulting engineering firm working 
The Department of Communications and Theater at StMary's

within the power utility industry. Due to our current workload, we are seeking graduate level engineers for summer employment 
presents a ND/SMC Theater production of 

within our Chicago office. To qualify, candidates should have a bachelor degree in structural/mechanical engineering with undergraduate and/or graduate course work in the following areas: Structural steel analysis & design Finite element analysis 
choreographed by 
Structural dynamics/vibrations Direct resume to: 
Jerome Robbins 
Computer applications 


IMPELL CORPORATION 
Department 156 
Musical Score composed by Leonard Berstein 

2345 Waukegan Road Bannockburn, Illinois 60015 
Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim 
Book by Arthur Laurents May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. 

Check Our Keg Prices! 

ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD 
O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College 

SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
For information call the box Office at 284-4626
12191 272·7 144 


GEOGRAPHICAL CLUBS 

GRAND OPENING! 
Students, Professors-All Ages 50-18-251 
Ifyou are providing a BAGGAGE TRUCK for students from 

A drawing for a Hot Air Balloon ride or follow the advertising balloon outside! 
your area, you MUST REGISTER with the Student Activities Offi 

Where? Where else, but 23 Skiddoo! 
byFRIDAY,MAYl.

New merchandise & 20% discount too Hope to see you there -got a carnation for you! 
Rides by All day Fri -Sat May i,3 Bob Grimes 
Parking next door at Windy City lot. 23 Skiddoo Gift Shop Windsocks & Balloons for Sale 2036 State Road 23-277-8485 One block east of N.D . 
.


52929 u.s.31 North 
0....., ...-...,.. ----­
With this coupon receive a 
Large Pizza for Medium Pizza Price Medium PizzaforSmall Pizza Price 
(Delivery Orders Only) 
t. After S pm on Fri.-Sat. Only 
(Limited Delivery Area) 
277-5880 Expires May 10 
L---------------~------------~ 
All members of Senior 

United Parcel Service will be setting up 
Class are invited 

A temporary customer counter for 
~---Proper ID Requir

Shipping packages on the Notre Dame University Campus 
No charge for picnic 
Come meet the alumni

• 
Located at the Stepan Courts 

• 
Open Monday, May 5-Friday, May 9 



representatives from your areal

from 10:am to 6:00pm 
Note: Payment by check must be local check requires valid drivers license and student I.D. 

I 
~ 
I 
II 


The Observer Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 13 

Sports Lists 

Willie Shoemaker 
in the Triple Crown Races* 
Starts Wins 2nds 3rds 
Kentucky Derby 23 3 3 4 Preakness Stakes 10 2 3 1 Belmont Stakes 10 5 1 0 Tot•l 43 10 7 5 
•Through 1985 
..._Amertcen Racing M•nu•l 
o.--Or.pt~lc 

Baseball 
continuedfrom page 16 
tom of the ninth. The tenth inning 
proved disasterous. Purdue scored 
four runs, while the Irish could on­
ly come up with one. Pu rdue won 
the game 9-5. 

On Wednesday, the Irish drop­
ped both ends of a doubleheader to 
the Broncos of Western Michigan. 
In the opener, the Irish lost, 5-4 
and in the nightcap the team lost, 8­
7. The games proved extremely frustrating for the Irish because both were only lost by one run. 
In the opening game, the Irish lost when Western Michigan scored a run in the bottom of the sixth inn­ing to break 4-4 tie. The Irish were unable to come up with a run in the top of the seventh inning. 
In the nightcap, Western Michigan scored in the bottom of the seventh to break a 7-7 tie that the Irish had established in their last time at bat. A bright spot for the Irish was Tom Shields who went 3-for-3. Following the game, Gallo wondered whether or not the team enjoyed winning. 
"Sometimes I wonder if the team enjoys prosperity," said Gallo. "We could have easily won our last three games. It has been frustrating all year long. The situa­tions and opportunities were there for us to win, but we didn't. We never capitalized. Since our Bowl­ing Green win, we should have gone 9-0 in our last nine games. It is frustrating not to win the games we knew we should have." 
Yesterday, the Irish decided that the frustration of the week's games had been enough. On Jake Kline Field, the irish easily beat Valparaiso, 6-l. Craig Passilla pit­ched a complete game. Over nine innings, Passilla allowed one run on four hits, struck out three and walked none. Ken Soos and Tom 
Shields led the team in hitting. 
Soos went 2-for-3 with one RBI 
and Shields went 1-for-3 with two 
runs batted in. The Irish also 
played solid defense committing 
only two errors during the game. 
With this win, the Irish will bring a 21-25 record into this weekend's four-game series with Nor­thwestern. Gallo believes that in­juries have prevented the team from a better overall record. 
"I wonder how well this team 
would have done if we did not have 
so many injuries." he said. 
"Conservatively speaking, I think 
that we could have achieved 
between 28-18 and 33-13. We have 
never had our predicted season 
lineup in a game once this year. We 
have always had to fill empty spots 
because of injuries to key players." 
The weekend's series with Nor­thwestern will be a tough one for the irish. Northwestern has 13 scholarship players on their squad to provide depth and balance. Last year, the Irish lost all four contests to the Northwestern team. On Saturday, the irish travel to Nor­thwestern for a doubleheader which starts at 1:00 p.m. CDT. On Saturday, the irish will play • another doubleheader against Nor­thwestern on Jake Kline Field at 
I :00 p.m .. 
It's 
Wonder Woman! 
wishing 
Mary Anne 
a (belated) 
Happy 
21st! love, the endurance club 


MEDICAL 
SCHOOL APPLICANTS 
ENIILIIH CLAIIEI1n the best med1ca1 center of the Amencas. safe. cosmopolitan San Jose. Costa R1ca Established. non-profit un1vers1ty med1ca1 school. lull cumculum 1nclud<ng all clin1cals over 2.500 bed modern med1cal cPnter Amencan styled cumculum Limited opemngs for North Amencans Loans IVallablll. July claaaaa now being filled. 
~UACA-MED 
Application office: 1655 Palm Beacn Lakes Boulevard West Palm Beach, Flonda 33401 
683 6222 

TTTTTT 

I I I 
Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 14
The Observer 





For O'Brien, it's time to move to a different court 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
From the tennis courts to a court 
of law. Notre Dame senior Izzy 
O'Brien will attempt to dominate 
the justice system much the same 
way she has dominated opponents 
during her short stint with the Irish 
women's tennis team. 
O'Brien transfered to Notre 
Dame at the beginning of her 
sophomore year, forfeiting a 
season of eligibility. But her first 
year with the squad she compiled a 
27-6 record at the sixth singles spot 
and this season stands at 11-7 in 
singles and 16-3 in doubles with a 
partner Mary Colligan, as she 
heads to law school after gradua­
tion. 
"Izzy has definitely improved since the fall and her doubles play has been outstanding this season," comments head coach Michele Gelfman. "I am very happy to have had the experience to coach her and get to know her as an individual. .She will be very missed and very 
difficult to replace." 
O'Brien began her athletic career 
as a swimmer, competing for eight 
years before trying her hand at ten­
nis. She began later than most, at 
the age of 14, but that didn't seem 
to hinder the Augusta, Mich., 
native any. She lettered all four 
years at Gull Lake High School and 
was Wolverine Conference cham­
pion in her sophomore, junior and 
senior years. 
"I stopped swimming because 
there wasn't a swim team in our 
high school and I was getting a little 
tired of it," recalls the Walsh Hall 


Senior women's tennis player /zzy O'Brien gets set to make a return in an Irish match earlier this season. Trish Sullivan's story focuses on O'Brien, who will play her final matches for Notre 
Dame this weekend.  
resident.  "So  my  brother  and  I  nis program and visiting the cam­ 
started  taking  private  (tennis)  pus, she knew Notre Dame as the  
lessons and that's how it all started.  place to come. The program was on  
It  was  great  having  him  around  its way up and the academics were  
because there was always someone  unbeatable.  
to hit around with. At first I would  
beat him, but now that he's gotten  "I  have  no  regrets  about  
older and bigger he can kill me."  transferring," adds O'Brien.  "I've  
O'Brien  became  disillusioned  
with Michigan during her first year  
and  began searching  for  another  
college. After looking into the ten­ 

·~·:·:·:·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:·:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:~=~=~=~:;:~:;:::::;:~::::.;; SATURDAY NIGHT come to MR. D'S $3 pitchers ~Kamikazes Bring your Charity Ball ticket stub in for a free shot from Mr. D. =:=:·:·:·:·:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:•;·.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:.:·:  
ANNOUNCING THE Monday Night Special* ....%III.....Prirll ...H:II ,_...._.. ........., '10.00 '12.50~'22.50 Completellalrc:ut HlghliHhting or coloring lind dealgn ce ophanea etc. $3200 Parma & body wavea cuatom tormulatecltor yourtlelr type complete wlheorcut end dealgn.1, All condlloonlng Included. ALL SERVICES PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF THE MICHAEL & CO. EDUCATIONAL TEAM Af/CHAEL 2041 E.lrellnd at Ironwood &ca Soutfllend 291-1001 HAIRCONCEPTS  



 
Friday: 75q; Mixed Drinks  
Saturday: $1 Imports  

 



Hospitality and Reasonable Prices *Pork with Garlic Sauce $5.45 *Chicken with Hot Pepper Sauce $5.75 
Now accepting reservations for Graduation Weekend. 
For corry outMon.·Thurs.: 11:30am·10pm 

Bar open 7 days a week Fri.·Sol.: 11:30am-11pm or
130 Dixie Highway South Sun. a. Holidays reservations
South Bend. Indiana 11:30om·10pm HoppyHour: 5pm·7pm OnU.8.J1Noo111•-IDIWidell""' 272-7376 
enjoyed my experience here tremen­dously. And I've gotten the chance to see the team grown in many ways, least of which is the move to Division I this season. I think we've done a good job with the switch, and although we won't have any postseason to look forward to, I would do it all over again." 
First year coach Gelfman is cer­tainly glad O'Brien was a part of the team when she came. The coach uses words such as "Quiet, methodical, intense, mature and coachable," in describing her senior leader. Gelfman and the team had the last practice of O'Brien's career yesterday as the Irish head into a weekend of season-ending action. 
The team will travel to Northern Il­linois to take on Northern and Bowling Green. The squad should coll!e out on top if everyone main­tains their game. 
"I want to win both," says Gelfman. "But I want to come off knowing that we played the best tennis we can possibly play to the end the season. I want to have 
outstanding performances  all  the  
way down the line."  
"The  odds  are  in  our  favor,"  

echoes O'Brien. "We definitely should beat them both this weekend. Everyone's game is doing well and since this is the last stand for us seniors, we want to to out on a winning note." 
~~REFRIGERATOR RETURN~" 
All refrigerators rented from S.A.B. must be returned to 
STEPAN CENTER SATURDAY, MAY3 10:00 -4:00 pm 10:00 am-4:00 pm 
Refrigerators must be cleaned and defrosted before deposit. will be returned. 
~"" Sponsored by Serv1ces Comm1ss1on of your ......,, Student Activities Board 




~c:tcJIC3L~--------------------------~--------F_r_id-ay_,_M_a~y-2,_1_9s_6_-~pa~g-e1 

Bloom County 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 -California 5 Style of 
architecture 10 Tablets 14 Matured 15 Conductor 
Leinsdorf 16 Tract 17 Shoe insert 18 Chief: pre!. 19 Highland group 20 Former Supreme 
Court justice 22 Victoria's 
land 24 Met's Mollo 26 Chest rattle 27 Japan's high­
est mountain 31 Petty ruler 35 " ...makes-
ending" 36 Leered 38 A Gershwin 39 Musical sound 40 Flower organ 41 Promenade 42 "Scots Wha -" 
(Burns) 43 Stephen 
Vincent­44 Suit to­45 Achieve 47 Siam, today 50 Noun ending 52 First name 
in scat 53 Yangtze port 57 Farther away 61 Predicament 62 Correspond 64 Blackthorn 65 Global area 66 Hall-of-Farner 
Greasy 67 Footnote word 68 Poor grades 69 Migrations 70 Air. fox 
DOWN 1 Eng. spa 2 Indian city 3 Taunt 4 Australian 
city 

1986 Tnbune Med•a Serv1ces. Inc. All A1gh1s Reserved 

Yes!erday's Puzzle Solved: 
5 Filmdom's 

Durbin  
6 Hockey great  
7 Affluent  
8 Ethereal fluid  
9 Body of water  
10 Mail boat  
11 Woody's son  
12 Senior member  
13 Confessed  
21 At all  
23 Happy  
25 "-, a sigh, a  
sob" (Arnold)  
27 Pianist Hines  
28 Ocean stalker  
29 Cinema's  
Gaynor  
30 Lace tag  
32 Lariat  43 Kind of cherry  55 "I cannot  
33 Composer  46 Trojan hero  tell-"  
Harold  48 Dramatist  56 Dies­ 
34 Blanched  Edward's kin  58 Automobile  
37 River in Hades  49 -de France  pioneer  
40 Inclination  51 Kind of beaver  59 Negatives  
41 Kuala Lumpur's  53 Source of roe  60 Gr. commune  
land  54 Leg covering  63 Wapiti  

Berke Breathed 


Campus 
FRIDAY, MAY 2 

02 p.m. -free music, South Quad, Spon­sored by the Student Activities Board 
06:30p.m. -meeting, Christian Fellowship, Library Lounge 
07 p.m., 9 p.m., II p.m. -movie, "The Breakfast Club", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by the Student Activities Board, $1.50 
07 p.m., 9 p.m., II p.m. -movie, "Exorcist 
II: The Heretic", Knights of Columbus Building, Sponsored by the Knights of Col­umbus, $1 
08 p.m. -charity ball, ACC, Sponsored by Notre Dame students, $5 singles, $8 couples 
09 p.m. -concert, "Ooze Magazine", South 
Dining Hall, Sponsored by Student Ac­
tivities Board, $1 

-Ads 
continued from page 10 
CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL CHARITY BALL 

IS YOUR BIKE IN HORRIBLE SHAPE? WANT TO SELL IT? CALL JULIE x4570 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MONA I (AIIectlonately otherwise known as Sue Marley) May you lind Mark Harmon on your next nature walk I 
ElienPaych.. -HAVE GREAT ADVENTURES (and Fun Camel Riding!) NEXT YEARII I am going to miss you SO MUCH -Lots of Love from a sad airhead friend. 

"Donald ... Trade you a thorax and six legs for two of your segments." 
SATURDAY, MAY 3 
07 p.m. -mock beauty contest, "Mr. Stan­ford Contest", Library Auditorium, Spon­sored by Stanford Hall, $1 07 p.m., 9 p.m., 11 p.m. -movie, "The Breakfast Club", Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by Student Activities Board, $1.50 07 p.m., 9 p.m., 11 p.m.-movie, "Exorcist 
II: The Heretic", Knights of Columbus Building, Sponsored by the Knights of Col­umbus, $1 08 p.m. -benefit dance, Stepan Center, Sponsored by RASTA, $5 
SUNDAY, MAY 3 
11 a.m. -Spanish Mass, Farley Hall, Spon­sored by Center for Social Concerns 0 l p.m. -beach party raffle, Haggar Col­lege Center 
08 p.m. -graduate organ recital, Geoffrey Myers, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Department of Music 
SENIORS '85 grad looking lor room­mate In NW Chicago area. Let's get together and save some BIG BUCKS! call Jim (312) 699-7500 
Resort Hotels, Cruise Lines & Amuse· ment Parks are now accepting ap­plications tor employment! To receive an application and Informa­tion, write Tourism Information Ser· vices, P.O. Box 7881, Hilton Head Island, SC 29938. 
Thank You St. Jude B.H. 
Last Shopping day 'till Mr. Stanford Contest!!! 
ATIENTION ALL OFF CAMPUS STUDENTS FROM CONNECTICUT: For Info. concerning the baggage truck, contact Martha Welsh at 2670. 
TOMORROW IS COMPUTER­GODDESS JUSTINE RIGALI'S BIRTH· DAYII WISH THIS FUN-LOVING FRIEND A HAPPY 19th II 




Friday, May 2, 1986 -page 16 


Pinkett, Sullivan named top athletes for 1985-86 
ND's No. 1 rusher maintained poise 
By ~RTY BURNS 
Assistant Sports Editor 
For Notre Dame tailback Allen Pinkett, 
1985-86 was a year that presented bigger 
challenges than just carrying a football past 
11 hurtling bodies 30 times a game. 
With the all-time school rushing record 
within his reach, frustrated Irish fans on his 
mind, and a relentless media grilling him 
about his head coach, there was more than 
enough pressure on the 5-9, 181-pound 
frame of the dynamo from Sterling, Va. But 
always the gentleman, Pinkett maintained 
poise and showed greatness both off the field 
as well as on it. 
Because of these contributions to the 1985 
Notre Dame football team, Pinkett has been 
named the winner of this year's Edmund A. 
"Moose" Krause Award given annually to 
the Male and Female Athletes of the Year as 
determined by the sports department of The 
Observer. 
"I am very honored and I have to say I 
didn't expect it," said Pinkett. "I guess this 
just goes to show that anything can happen 
at Notre Dame. IfPaul Hornung can win the 
Heisman Trophy with Notre Dame going 2­
8, I guess Allen Pinkett can win a 'Moose' 
Krause Award with his team going 5-6." 
The sup-par season slate of '85 was one of 
the few disappointments for Pinkett in a year 
which saw him rush for 1,100 yards and 11 
touchdowns in 255 carries. In addition, the 
year brought him a career total of 4, 131 
rushing yards -the largest number ever ac­
cumulated by a Notre Dame player. 
Still, the repeated and bitter disappoint­ment of more losses than he or the fans were willing to accept always took precedence in post-game press conferences over whatever personal feat he had accomplished. And though a 24-21-1 career record may not have been how he had wanted to finish it all, he made it clear on every handoff that he wanted desperately to wake the echoes once again for the Irish fans. 
''This was a special year despite the 5-6 record we had," notes Pinkett. "It was my senior year and it was just great playing with all the guys on the team, especially the senior class." 
see PINKETI, page 11 


Former Notre Dame tailback Allen Pinkett celebrates one of his many touchdowns as an Irish player. The Observer has chosen Notre Dame's all-time leading rushe~ as its Male Athlete.of the Year for 
Soph won NCAA, Great Lakes titles 
By MIKESYZMANSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Becuase she has reached the pinnacle of col­legiate honors, the NCAA individual title, sophomore fencer Molly Sullivan has been presented the Edward W. "Moose" Krause Award, which is given to the Female Athlete of the Year as determined by The Observer sports staff. 
Sullivan slashed her way to an impressive season, culminating in her defeat of defen­ding NCAA individual champion Caitlin Bilodeaux in the finals at Princeton. In her victory, she led Notre Dame to second place in the NCAA championships, the best finish in women's fencing history. 
Rarely does an athlete dominate a col­legiate sport so early in a career as has Sullivan. Posting a career record of 114-7 (.938), she went 71-3 (.957) over the course of her second season, which includes garner­ing the Great Lakes individual title for the second straight year. 
The North Andover, Ma. native is no stranger to high-level competition. She won both junior and senior gold medals at na­tionals this past summer, and was fifth place finisher at the NCAA tournament last spr­ing. 
Her dual with Bilodeaux stretches back to her years before college. "I have fenced her on the Olympic circuits for years," said Sullivan. "We trade off decisions, we come from the same area of the country, and I followed her to both the junior and senior 
see SULLIVAN, page 11 

Lacrosse team came back to beat Ohio St. 
ByhTE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's lacrosse team once again exhibited its flair for the dramatic by pulling out a tense 13-9 victory over Ohio State on Wednesday at Cartier Field. 
Tomorrow, Michigan State rolls in for a 
1:30 p.m. battle at Cartier Field. 
Ohio State took early control Wednesday, jumping out to a quick three-goal lead in the first quarter. The Irish quickly erased that, however, and began to set the offensive pace. Notre Dame could not pull away from the stubborn Buckeyes, never enjoying more than a two-goal advantage until late in the fourth quarter. 
The game's critical point came after Ohio State scored to tie the game at nine with just under eight minutes to go. Then, at the six­and-a-half minute mark of the final frame, senior co-captain Tom Grote beat Buckeye goalie Pat Leahy for what was eventually the game winning goal. Grote's tally sparked three more Irish scores which provided the final margin of victory. 
Head Coach Rich O'Leary was more than happy with his team's effort and expressed confidence heading into the season finale at home against Michigan State. 
"I thought our team played with a lot of character and poise," said the sixth-year head coach. "We got behind at first, fought back and really took control of things in the fourth. Offensively, we played pretty well and our defense took everything they could shoot at us." 
Grote had four goals, including his game­winner, while Joe Franklin and Dave Shields added three goals apiece. Junior Jim Shields scored twice and set up three others. Sophomore goalie Matt McQuillan recorded nine saves in the game. O'Leary was satisfied with both team and individual efforts. 
"Everyone played real well," he added. "I was especially pleased with Grote, Franklin, see LACROSSE, page 11 


Irish frustration ends with 6-1 win vs. Valpo 
MICHAEL KEEGAN 
Sports Writer 
Except for yesterday's home win against Valparaiso, this has been a very frustrating week for the Notre Dame baseball team. Since Mon­day, the Irish have dropped three games-a doubleheader to Western Michigan and an extra inning con­test to Purdue. 
Irish head coach Larry Gallo says the team's performance has been inconsistent all week. 
"It feels as though the team has been on a rollercoaster ride as of late," said Gallo. "The situations were there for us to win, but we didn't. We never capitalized on our opportunites, and as a result; we lost three of the four contests played this week." 
On Monday, the Irish lost a home game to Purdue. After the lead by scoring four runs. Pat Pesavento got the inning going with a one-out double. Tom Shields followed with a walk, and then John Loughran singled to drive in both runners. Two more runs crossed the plate and the Irish had a 4-l lead. The lead was quickly erased as Purdue scored three runs in the top of the sixth to tie the game. In the eighth inning, Chris Flynn hit a home run that put the Irish up by a run going into the top of the ninth. 
Then the frustrations began for the Irish. After a one-out single, a wild pitch moved the Purdue run­ner into scoring position. Follow­ing a infield single that moved the runner to third, a sacrifice fly scored the Purdue runner from third to tie the game. After this, the irish failed to score in the bot-

Notre Dame baseball players Rich Vanthournout game ear11er this season. Mike Keegan has details first inning, the Irish trailed, 1-0. 
(8) and Tim Hutson (42) greet Chris Flynn at home of what has been a frustrating week for the Irish in However, in the bottom of the see BASEBALL, page 13 plate after Flynn belted a homer in an Irish home his story at right. fourth inning, the Irish grabbed the 




