

Foreign study -page 10 

VOL. XXI, NO. 9 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1986 an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

(,,,.,...,,.,.,f'P,uf,.ud 1'1.uuritl1r 
Dr. William Hickey shares a jovial moment with his wife Barbara during his inaugural celebration this weekend. Hickey was officially installed as Saint Mary's ninth College president during ceremonies yesterday. Story below. 
Hickey's inauguration marks new SMC era 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Staff Re1x>rler 
The launchinfJ of over I, 500 balloons kicked offa weekend of inaugural activities Friday at Saint Mary's in celebration of the inauguration of Dr. William Hickey as the college's ninth president. 
South Bend Mayor Roger Parent issued an official proclamation that the weekend he known as Saint Mary's College weekend in South Bend. 
Yesterday marked the offi­cial date as the College held their Ceremony of Inaugura­tion. Hickey was presented the Presidential medallion by 
Sister  Madonna  Murphy,  
Chariman  of  the  College's  
Board of Regents.  

After a thunderous standing ovation, Hickey addressed the 
I, 400 guests by accepting the challenge of being Saint Mary's president. He pledged his every effort to work with the Saint Mary's community and to maintain the excel­lence which characterizes the institution. · 
Hickey emphasized that Saint Mary's has continued to grow and prosper, despite the problems private institutions faced in the latter part of the 1960's. He said that of the 280 independent women's col­leges that thrivedjust 20 years ago, approximately I 00 remain open today. 
Studies show, Hickey said, that a student at a women's college is much more likely to become actively involved in her education and in her col­lege community; to take lead­ership roles during her col­lege years and afterward; to select and pursue a major in chemistry, economics, math­ematics or physics, and to be an achiever in her field no matter what her major; to earn a doctorate and to go to medi­cal school. 
Hickey said the student at a women's college is sur­rounded by positive role models; intelligent, success­ful women with whom she can identify. She studies in an en­vironment where women and men work together for the welfare of women, and develops a network of lifelong friendships and professional contacts. Hickey said. 
Hickey also announced a seed grant of $I 00,000 from a private source to begin an endowment fund for faculty development. From this, he said, the intention is to build an endowment of sufficient size to fund with its income a 
see HICKEY, page 3 
South Bend woman to plead guilty in Kevin Hurley accident charges 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News F.ditor 
The woman charged with driving the car that failed to stop after striking Kevin Hurley is ex­pected to plead guilty today, the Saint Joseph County prosecuting attorney said. 
Mary Beth Gallivan, a 24-year­old South Bend resident, is charged with leaving the scene of a personal-injury accident, ac­cording to attorney Michael Barnes. 
Gallivan is scheduled to enter her plea at 9 a.m. in the St. Joseph County Superior Court, he said. 
If guilty of the crime, a Class D felony, Gallivan could face up to four years in a state prison, Barnes said. She could also be sentenced to probation. 
Hurley, a Howard Hall fresh­man at the time, was critically injured after being struck by a car on U.S. 31 early Sept. 7, 1985. The car, a 1979 Firebird Trans-AM, did not stop. 
Gallivan and a male acquaint­ance went to the St. Joseph County Police Department I 2 hours after the accident and said they were the ones in the car, said Director of Security Rex Rakow. Gallivan stated she was the driver, Rakow said. 
No charges were filed against her male acquaintance, also a 23-year-old South Bend resident at the time, said Barnes. 
Gallivan could also be liable for monetary damages if Hurley decides to file a civil suit. 
Richard Hurley, the father of Kevin, said no decision had been made on whether to file such a suit. 
Barnes attributed the delay in today's hearing date to one or two continuances granted in the case. He added that Hurley was not able to testify for a long time after the accident. 
Neither Hurley nor witnesses to the accident will testify at the hearing today, however, said Barnes. 
Gallivan, accompanied by her attorney, Victor Mcfadden, will 
see GUlLTY, page 6 
Hopes are alive for Hurley's return 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
Assistant News f:(titor 
Plans for Kevin Hurley's return 
k> Notre Dame as a student are still very much alive, according to Richard Hurley, Kevin's father. 
"That's what we are moving towards," he said. 
Although Kevin was unable to begin studies at a local school this semester in preparation for returning to Notre Dame, Hurley said local classes are possible in January. The date of Kevin's reenrollment at Notre Dame depends on his further progress, said Hurley. 
Kevin's cognitive rehabilitation and an operation that prepared Kevin's amputated leg for fitting with an artificial limb prevented his enrollment at a local school this semester, said Hurley. 
The I 2-hour operation, per­formed August I, involved the transplant of muscle tissue from Kevin's back to the stump of the leg that. was amputated as a result of injuries sustained when Kevin was struck by a car last September as a freshman. 
Hurley said Kevin should be using the artificial limb in about a month. Doctors then plan to complete necessary digestive system and shoulder work, said Hurley. 
Hurley said Kevin's cognitive rehabilitation has progressed well, but not to the point of his being ready to resume academic studies. 
•He's very close, but it's better to wait until we are sure he's rei.!dy," said Hurley. Hurley said physicians continue to work on improving Kevin's memory and concentration."His memory isn't perfect yet, and won 't be for awhile, but its constantly getting better and better," said Hurley. 
"I know I'm not ready (to take classes) right now, but with the progress I've been making, I know I carit be too far away,"said Kevin Hurley. 
"I pray that my brain will get healed enough to come back to Notre Dame," he said." I mean healed enough to do simple things of memory that are now a triumph if I can remember them." 
He said learning to walk with an artificial limb will also prove · difficult."lt's not quite as easy as movies make it look," he said. "You really have to work to get 
your balance right." 
Working at rehabilitation be­tween eight and twelve hours a day, five days a week has been a regular part of Hurley's routine. 
"The eight-hour days are easy, compared to the others·," said Kevin Hurley. Hurley said he appreciated talking over the phone this past week with several residents of Howard Hall, Hurley's former residence at Notre Dame. 
Richard Hurley said communi­cation from other men1bers of the Notre Dame community has been constant. Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshmen Year of Studies, visited Hurley over the summer at Hurley's hometown of Dover, Massachusetts, and Vice President for Student Affairs Fa­ther David Tyson called recently. Kevin receives letters and cards every week, said Hurley's father. 
Five student residences burglarized since beginning of the school year 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
News F.ditor 
Five burglaries of Notre Dame residences located in the North­east Neighborhood have oc­curred since the beginning of the school year, according to police reports. 
Break-ins were reported at the following locations: 103 N. St. Louis on Aug. I 0, 916 N. Hill on Aug. 22, 708 E. Corby on Aug. 26, 825 N. Notre Dame Ave. on Aug. 26, and 702 N. St. Louis on Aug. 23. 
The house at 702 N. St. Louis has been burglarized four times in the last six months, according to Sgt. John McCullum of the South Bend Police Department. 
Although there has been no in­crease in the number of bur­glaries, the police said they feel there is a greater need for stu­dent awareness on dealing with off-campus crime. The police plan to meet with students to dis­cuss ways to prevent becoming victimized, McCullum said. 
They will distribute pamphlets and answer questions at a meet­ing to be held at the Northeast Neighborhood Center Wednes­day night at 7, McCullum said. 
The best way to combat crime, according to Capt. Patrick Cot­trell, is through public aware­ness. He said he believes break­ins definitely would decrease if students were more aware of how to prevent crime. 
He said 90 percent of crime is a direct result of the victims being uninformed. Students are not accustomed to worrying about crime, Cottrell added. Once the students get used to locking their doors, he said, the number of burglary reports decreases. 
Burglaries are worse at the beginning and end of the school year, Cottrell said. He said the students become a little bit too relaxed at the end of the year. They become real security-
see BURGLARIES, page 6 
IW'.­
Student opinions will be relayed
In Brief ·_ 
in new Observer Campus Network 

Monday, September 8, 1986 -page 2 

A rai<l \\'<IS conducted by St. Joseph County Police at a house at the comer ol ISulla and Ivy Hoads around midnight rriday, ;~ecordin~l to a police source. According to police, a larHC lllllllber ol citations were clclivered for minor's con­sumption of alcohol. rurther details on the raid could not he rcleasecl by police over the weekend. -The Observer 
The righting Irish ISattalion kicked off their 1986-87 school year last Thursday with an awards ceremony in the Library Auditoriwn. Top cadet awards were given to Anthony tkvilac­qua, Mark Gatto, and ISryan renton. The lop cadets of the senior class were recoHnized as Distinguished Military Stu­dents and other cadets were recognized for their successful completion of Airborne, Air Assault, Northern Warfare SchooL ami the Russian Language Program. -The Observer 
t"rank Malone, a senior finance major, has been named the Observer Campus Network manager. A resident of Palos Verdes [slates, Calif., Malone formerly served as actounts receivable clerk for The Observer. The OCN is a new depart­ment designed to gather statistical information on the Notre DamO'Saint Mary's conummity. Malone will be responsible for organizing and operating the network throughout the com­munity. 
Of Interest 
The Notre Dame Pre-Professional Society will hold its first general meeting tomorrow night at 7 in Room f 27 of Nieuwland Hall. All pre-meds, pre-dents, biology majors and chemistry majors are welcome. The following officers will answer any questions: Mark Genovese, 283-I 2 15; Tony lkvilacqua. 283-1463; Kim Koval, 283-3351; Kym Orsetti. 283-29B7; and Matt lkucrlcin, 283-2245. -The Observer 
The Adopt-A-Transfer program needs transfers because of the great number of adopters already signed up. For more information, call John at 283-1483. -The Observer 
Beyond Rape will be the focus of tonight's sexual violence seminar sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. Speakers from Sex Offense Services and Madison Center will lecture at 6:45p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. -The Observer 
The Isis Gallery presents as its premier exhibition of the season a show entitled, Stephen Romans, Recent Sculptures, which opens tonight at 7:30. The gallery is located on the second floor of Riley Hall. The show will run through Sep­tember 26. -The Observer 
The Pre-Law Society will meet tonight at 7:30 in the Engi­neering Auditorium with Dean Waddick speaking or~ va~ious issues concerning law schools and law school appl1cat1ons. All underclassmen are welcome. -The Observer 

All Seniors interested in the Senior Trip to Jamaica are invited to a mandatory meeting Wednesday night from 6 to 7 in Washington Hall. Officers encourage students to attend the meeting on time. -The Observer 
Placement Night for all Accountancy seniors will be tonight at 7 in the Library Auditorium. Career and Placement Services recommends strongly that these students attend. -The Ob­server 
A Fulbright Grant informational meeting will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in Room I 2 I of O'Shaughnessy Hall for all seniors and graduate students who arc interested in studying abroad for the 1987-88 school year. Applications arc due Oct. I 5. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Management Club will hold an organiza­tional meeting tonight at 8 in the Hayes-Healy auditorium to discuss this semester's academic and social events. All former members and interested students lrom any major arc en­couraged to attend. -The Observer 


VVeather 
Sunny and pleasant today, but you can put your Jams back in the drawer. High in the upper 60s to about 70. Clear and cool tonight. Low in the mid and up­per 40s. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow. High in the low and mid 70s. 
· 
· 
August 24: The car nash involvinH I>.J\id Hin:rs raises questions about mandating the usc of scat bells. 
August 29: A blind student is robbed on the ND campus. Arc students safe to roam the campus at night'? More importantly, perhaps, do students feel safe'? 
September 3: The front-page article on the owner of a South lknd liquor store who sued a Notre Dame sophomore becomes the topic of dining hall debate. What is the reaction of students to this new tactic ~signed to keep minor out of liquor stores? 
Squashed between these three front-page pieces of news were dozens of other late-breaking. sometimes tragic, SOI!letin1es controversiaL but always newsworthy stories. 
Until now, The Observer has had no effective means of accurately correlating student opinion throughout the campus. In its August 28, 1986 issue, however, The Observer ran a news story announcing its new Observer Campus Network. 
The OCN will reach into the dorm rooms of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to tabulate what the students think and then The Observer will print the ~esults. The OCN will provide The Observer with a fast and efficient way of relaying student opinion to the conummity as a wl10lc. 
Covering the full gamut of campus, local, na­tional and international news, the OCN will ask for student opinion on a nHtltitude of political, social. economic, sports and human interest is­sues. 
The OCN itself is amazingly simple. Shortly The Observer will be appointing hall rcpresentivcs throughout the N!YSMC community. These hall representatives will in turn appoint floor and sec­tion leaders. 
Once the network is in place, polling informa­tion will be sent to some or all of the hall repre­sentatives who will pass the survey to the noor or section leaders. The surveys will be given to the students, compiled at the hall level and then passed back to the The Observer. 
The majority of the time, the OCN will conduct limited polling by sending the surveys to only a 
Joe Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 

few of the NI}SMC dorms. 
The actvanlaHes of the OCN to the students should l>e obvious. The OCN will help acfministra­tors, student government leaclns. student ;Kti\·ity organizers and The Observer determine what stu­dents think, need and want from the institutions which serve them. 
lkyomf just opening new avenues of conmlu­nication, the OCN will add a new dimension to The Observer and will rrcatt· positions for those interested in scrvinH the< olnmunity .111<1 its ne\l.·s­paper, who until no\\ h.1n· fl-It limitccll>y the tradi­tional roles and responsibilities ol the newspaper. 
The OCN will provide something for everyone. It will provicfc stud('nts with a voice. administrators and various orH;mit.aliono., \dill .1 means ofjudHillH student opinion, and volunteers \l.'ith non-time­consuminH positions which \dll play a vital role in determining ;mel dl'lininH tilt' issues \~o·hiLh the campus addresses. 

it.. ttl)om.as m~tt iotitt.~ 
·nw. 11w~ ~lon S.JtW-''f uf Nurt:v 'Oarrw WW> fuu.rut...-d. w lntmuJtf· u.nder~tundi~ of •ton'!. pitnn.pla~. u.Uul.r,;, unt.l ·~tmuluu .~ ttl l'1~&'1yduy U,Jt:.. 'l'h£ sur~ ser1.VJ as a Jun~m Jur n:.">RU~.fl, Edua:ut.um, and d.tsa.:uM•ion. fD foster an awat~s a.nd. appu:..n.atwn uf 1'1m1~ 11nd. of Uu! flKI.stl.u.n hu.rriu.m.sm fw. l.ld.tlUna:;nL. Suw:~:~ 'NrJtrl'· llu.nv: -~w.r~ t.n J"tm I' •.; f.utrhdu: Hv..-Uuq•). tfv. ·nunna..CJ f1.uu: Sut:u-~l4 stud.u-t-,; aha: Wt....dnm uJ Roman r.u.&hott.cism, ll lol~isrfum Mvu~ vufnf'd.. so huiJ.I-1f thut hJ~ UJWUi~t and d.efP.nd&.d ~.... ptli.ru:i..pl.t:~. tt"lth h.t!. "'""tf Lt..f&~. · · 
f.NROl.LM.~T Fn1t'l: ·ll{f ntOMA'\ "1il1tF SOf1F111 O'F "~•'TR.f D.A"tf "'IAME................................................................................PHONI. ...................... -.......... . BDORE~S ............................................................................................................................. . 'iAJOR.............................................Y£AR.. .............................~( IIOOL ................................ . __tnclosed please fimd mlJH due~ formembenhip. ClhPrki payable to TNINIS Nil£SKI£TrIFNITI£IIN£t Pleau send thit form along wtth chect or cash to: lhomul'.*•.fort> 5ooety ol-vo!rt>Domf' 
f f'nler for 1oriolf onrl'TD$ AiotrP OomP. 1~· 46556 





Justeasiertopayf«E 
Even i(yoo didn't SlUt colleRe on ascholarship, youcould finish on one. Army Jtarc Scholarships pay for full tuition and allowances for educational lea and textboob. Along with up to SI,OOO ayear. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 




---------------~--~------~--------_...----~----------~ ---­
Monday, September 8, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 


Give me your tired. "'''""'" 
World War II veteran of the 18th cavalry regiment Jean Em­manuel de Douville, 70, poses last week in front of the Bastille column riding Hidalgo. De Douville is about to cross France again as part of a sumbolic gesture to carry the name of liberty brought by Canadian troops on D-Day to his caavalry regiment headquarters in Saint-Avoid, eastern France. 
IF YOUR BOOKSTORE DOESN'T 
CARRY SHARP CALCULATOR& 

CALL AND COMPLAIN4 
Sharp calculators are designed to be first in their class. 
Our EL-533 financial calculator for example, has twenty memo­ries compared to just five for the competition. So itlets you do complex calculations like dis­

counted cash flow 
analysis. 
For those who 
prefer lab coats to 
pinstripes, there's 
. our EL-506A scien­r~~:~~r~ tific calculator. With 

~ · its10-digit display, 
·direct formula entry 
and 93 scientific func­
tions, it makes per­
..~• ..,f'orming even the most 
difficult calculations easy as pi. 
And because it's sleek, slim and 
stylish, you'll never look out of 
step as science marches on. 
The fact is, Sharp makes all 
kinds of ingenious little calcula­
tors that can help get you 
through college. And help you 
pay for it. 

Because unlike college... 
they're surprisingly affordable. 
Calculators. Audio. AN Equipment. Banking Systems, Broadcast Cameras. Cash Reg1sters. Computers and Peripherals, Copiers, Electronic Components. Electron~c Typewriters, Facsimile, Medical Products, Microwave Ovens, Televisions. Vacuum Cleaners. Video Recorders. Cl1986 Sharp Electronics Corporatron. Sharp Plaza, Mahwah. New Jersey07430. 

FROM SHARP MINDS
<DME SHARP PRODUCTSN 
Lebanon, not Libya may be linked to terrorism in Istanbul synagogue 
Associated Press 
ISTANKUL, Turkey Premier Turgut Ozal said yesterday that the two terrorists who killed 21 worshipers and wounded four at Istanbul's main synagogue may have been linked to Lebanon, not Libya. 
Conflicting claims of responsi­bility were made on behalf of Pal­estinian, Shiite Moslem and Arab unity groups, but police could say only that the attackers were Arabs. 
After locking the synagogue's main door and firing on the Jewish congregation Saturday with submachine guns, the gun­men killed themselves with hand grenades. 
Ozal told reporters Sunday, It seems this attack doesnt have anything to do with Libya but with Lebanon.· He refused to elaborate. 
Libya said Sunday that it har­bored no hostility against Jews and said it disapproved of at­tacks on such innocent people. 
The task of identifying gun­men and victims continued Sun­day. 
Jak Veissid, an adviser to Chief Rabbi David Asseo, told a news conference that police had iden­tified all but three of the victims, including two rabbis who Wf'rc conducting a Sabbath service. 
Veissid said a single funeral service for the victims was tenta­tively set for Wednesday at the synagogue. Officials said all the victims were men and most were elderly. The youngest was 33. All were Turkish except for one Ital­ian and one Iranian. 
We are feeling shock, sorrow and sadness after this situation, Veissid said. But we (Jews) are a very. very secure community in Turkey. This act will not change anything in our situation. 
Ninety-eight percent of Turkey's 48 million people are Moslem, with only 22,000 Jews. 
More than 100 people gathered Sunday outside Neve Shalom Synagogue. Inside, dried pools of blood, scraps of human bone and charred skullcaps were on the floor. 
Twisted metal lay on the Icc­tern next to scorched velvet­covered chairs used by rabbis. 
The clock stood at 9: I 7 a.m.• the 
time of the first explosion. The 
prayer service Saturday had been 
the synagogue's first since 
reopening after two months of 
renovation. 
Anonymous calfers to news or­ganizations in Cyprus, Lebanon and Ankara variously claimed re­sponsibility on behalf of the Palestine Revenge Organization, the Islamic Resistance, the Inter­national Fighting Front and the North Arab Unity Organization. 
The Islamic Resistance is a code name used by the Shiite Moslem group Hezbollah, or Party of God, believed to be loyal to Iran. Another caller to a West­ern news agency in Kcirut on Sunday denied that the Islamic Resistance was involved. 
The three other groups were previously unknown. 
Iran's Prime Minister Hussein Musavi was quoted Sunday by Tehran radio as saying the synagogue attack was unaccep­table. The radio was monitored in Nicosia, Cyprus. 

Hickey 
continuedfrom page 1 
program of regular reductions in teaching loads. 
The inaugural ceremonies also featured an invocation by Univer­sity of Notre Dame President t-a­ther Theodore Hesburgh, a wel­come by College Acting Vice President Dorothy Feigl and a special greeting from Sisler Francis Kcrnard O'Connor, su­perior general of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Prior to the inauguration, a procession from the Great Doors of LeMans Hall to O'Laughlin Auditorium was led by Richard Pilger, professor of chemistry and physics. and marshal of the College. He carried with him the presidential medallion that was later presented to Hickey. 
Pilger was followed by a majority of the college's senior class, attired in caps and gowns. ~ehind the seniors were mem­bers of the college's faculty and administration, holders of honorary degrees from the Col­lege, and representatives of col­leges and universities through­out the country. Included in this were Hesburgh, Richard Wood, president of Earlham College, and Indiana University President John Ryan. 
Jeanne Heller, student body president congratulated Hickey on behalf of the Saint Mary's ~Ill­dents, saying that as a former professor, Hickey can relate to students' needs in the class­room, and is aware of the Saint Mary's desire to learn and espe­cially to experience. Heller also emphasized how successes, recognitions ami honors of Saint Mary's graduates arc clear reflec­tions of what students expect from the College. She explained to Hickey that the tradition of stu­dents putting faith into him will continue for future generations. 
Heller ended her address by congratulating Hickey on his of­ficial inauguration day, ami wis­hing him luck on the future of Saint Mary's under his leader­ship. 
Hickey was also congratulated 

by George Cr<1ig. Jr., Clark pro­
fessor of biology ill Notre Daml', 
who told ol mectinB t1ickcy when 
he (t1ickcyl was a grd<luatc stu· 
dent at the University. He pr<1ised 
Hickey's graduate thesis, and ex­
plained that it was then !hill Clarl~ 
recognized <1 future IecHier. 
Mayor Parent umwatulatcd 

Hickey tor his accomplhluncnh 
and the college's contributions 
to the South ISeml uJmnwnity. 
The Observer Monday, September 8, 1986-page 4 

$25 million 
•
campaign exceeded by Saint Mary's 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's has exceeded 
the goal for its $25 million t:X­
Ct:L campaign, the largest 
fund raising effort in the Col­
lege's history, College Presi­
dent William Hickey has an­
nounced. 
The final total for the cam­
paign, begun in June, 1980, 
is $25,225,000. 
Weve always known that 
Saint Marys was deserving of 
major support," Hickey said. 
This successful campaign 
shows that our constituents 
believe the same. 
Nearly 28,000 contributions were received by the College. Gifts consisted of pledges and donations from alumnae, cur­rent and past parents, Sisters of the Holy Cross, students friends of the College, area businesses, corporations, a variety of grants and a special challenge to the Board of Regents. 
The challenge came from an anonymous regent who matched $1 million raised among lay members of the board with $500,000. 
Other major contributors in­cluded the National Endow­ment for the Humanities, Lilly Endowment Inc. and the Col­lege's Madeleva Society, which alone generated over $3 million. 
Contributions for the cam­paign, chaired by Mary Lou Morris Leighton of Niles, Mich.. were channeled into three major areas: capital, en­dowment and annual fund. 
Capital contributions have resulted in the building of the Cushwa-Leighton Library, dedicated in 1982 and the remodeling of the former li­brary into the Haggar College Centel'lShaheen Bookstore, opened in 1983. An expan­sion and renovation of the College's Science Hall, now underway, is scheduled for completion in 1987. 
EXCEL's success has helped the Saint Mary's endowment to reach $20 million, highest among women's Catholic col­leges. 




American journalist charged with espionage 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -American reporter Nicholas Daniloff was charged with espionage yesterday, state­run television said, a charge that under the Russian criminal code could carry the death penalty on conviction. 
Daniloff was believed to be the 

first foreign journalist ever for­
mally charged with spyinq here. 
Daniloff called the Moscow of­fice of his magazine, U.S. News & World Report and told reporter Jeff Trimble that he had been indicted in a legal proceed­ing at Moscow's Lefortovo Prison at 2 p.m., Trimble said. 
He told his colleague he had been charged under Article 65 of the Russian Federation Criminal Code. This article states that those committing espionage shall be punished by deprivation of freedom for a term of seven to 15 years .. , or by death. 
Trimble quoted Daniloff as saying he did not know when a trial might take place, but that he was told the investigation of his case could take six months or even nine months ifthere were extraordinary circumstances. 
'' My case is moving into a more serious phase.'' Trimble quoted Daniloff as saying in the 20­minute call. The charge of espionage puts it on a par with another case we know about. 
He was referring to Soviet U.N. 
employee Gennadiy Zakharov, 
who was arrested in New York on 
Aug. 23 on an espionage charge. 
Daniloff's wife, Ruth, has claimed 
her husband was framed in 
retaliation for Zaklwrov's arrest. 
Daniloff. 52, was arrested Aug. 30 moments after a Soviet ac­quaintance gave him a packet later found to contain secret maps and photographs. The news weekly magazine corre­spondent has been held since then at the Moscow prison. 
A commentator on the Soviet 
television news program Vremya 
confirmed that Daniloff was 
charged, but gave no details. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennady Gerasimov told CBS­TV's Face the Nation program on Sunday that a trial would be held soon but gave no date. Gerasimov spoke from Moscow via satellite before word came that Daniloff was charged. 
In Los Angeles, White House spokesman Larry Speakes said President Reagan is reviewing all options. 
We want Daniloffs release ami we want it immediately,' Speakes told reporters in a briefing at the 
hotel where Reagan was to ad­dress a GOP lund-raising dinner. 
Speakes said the United States still had received no official notification of charges being filed against the correspondent. 
He said the matter could have serious implications for U.S.­Soviet relations but declined to speculate on what action might be taken. 
He also refused to comment on whether Reagan has received a response to his written mes­sage to Soviet leader Mikhail Gor­l>achev appealing for Daniloff's release. 
"I think the president is deter­mined to sec a successful resolu­tion of the matter,"said Speakes. He regiirds,il as serious ... He is concerned. 
Speakes adclcd,"We will con­tinue to review <~II options, what we can do to influence tile ever;. " 
Daniloff is innocent." Speakes told reporters earlier Sunday in Santa Jiartlara, Calif., where Reagan was vacationing. He reiterated tllat there will be no trade of any accused Soviet spy for Daniloff. 
U.S. officials in Washington llave said the Reagan adminis­tration proposed that Daniloll be freed in excllanqc for releasing Zakharov into the Soviet ambas­sador's custody pending llis trial. However, U.S. Secretary of State George Shultz on t'riday ruled out an outright swap of Danilolf lor Zakharov. 
Mrs. Daniloff said of the 
charge, lm terribly disappointed, 
but ln1 taking heart from !'resi­
dent Reagan's letter.'" She was 
referring to <1 message Rea~!all 
sent last week to Soviet leader 
Mikhail S. Gorbacllev asking that 
her husbi!nd be freed. . As lo'ng as this is prnccedin~\. 
its putting Reagans dnd Gorbac­
hev's personal relationship on 
the line. This is going to have to 
be resolved at a very high leveL" 
Mrs. Danilofl said. 
In Washington, U.S. News & World Report Chairman Mortimer Zuckerman said, I think its an outrage that is going to have a substantial reaction in this country, and I suspect and believe there should be retaliatory measures if he is in tact put on trial.' 
Zuckerman, speaking on race the Nation, called the charge a total frameup and added, Nick Daniloff is no more a spy than John Wayne, and hes no more involved in espionage than Gidget. This whole thing is ridiculous.' 



ATTENTION ENTERTAINERS! 
bands, dj's, comedians ... 
ANY ACT 
We need performers for LaFortune's Newest Attraction 
CURIOUS???
Come Check us out... 
Contact Tom Utter, Programming Manager
2nd floor taFortune X4245

Opening this Fall 





The Observer 


·\1' /'froh•
On the rocks 

Winery workers from the Charles Krug Winery in St. Helena, Calif., picket last week outside the entrance to the winery as they joined other workers in the industry wide strike that is taking place at the peak of the wine harvest. 



FBI agents meet Pan Am survivors 
Associated Press 
t'RANKt'URT, West Germany A special Pan Arnjumbo jet landed in rrankfurt Sunday with 2 17 sur­vivors of a hUackin~ in Karachi, Pakisi<Hl, which killed at least 15 
people, includin~ t11ree Americans. 
n~t a~enls investi~atin~ the dayton~ Friday hijacking were at the airport to meet and talk to the 44 Americans on board the plane, if they have evidence to present, said State Department spokesman Michael Austrian. 
The plane arrived at 7: I 0 p.m. 
An Indian man was the first to come into the airport lounge, where soft drinks, coffee and cheesecake awaited survivors.

, It was a llarrowin~ experience, said the man, who refused to identity himself. We had a hor­rible time. 
After a brief stopover, the plane was to fly to London and New York. Pan Am officials said 72 passen~ers would leave the plane in t'rankfurt, 18 in London and 127 would go on to New York. 
Four hijackers, believed to be Palestinians, seized a Pan Amjet­liner with nearly 400 people aboard at Karachi airport early rriday and demanded to be flown to Cyprus, where they wanted to free jailed Palestinian terrorists. 
The hUacking ended 17 hours later when the lights went out aboard the plane and the hUack­ers fired at the passengers. Pakistani security forces were in control of the plane half an hour after the shootin~ began. 
The Justice rtment on 
On the Viewpoint pages your opinions "add up" 
Over 500 letters to the editor and 300 col­umns appeared last year in Viewpoint. Join 
1...-------4 the growing number of people who feel their thoughts and opinions do make a difference. 
Write us at: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Saturday issued arrest warrants for the hUackers, char~in~ them with murder, hosta~e-tal<.in!-l. at­tempted air piracy and aircraft 
sabota~e. 
White House officials said the warrants were issued as a precautionary measure and em­phasized that the Pakistani ~ov­ernment is in char~e of the case. 
We want to learn as much as possible to prosecute if we can get our hands on these folks, said Austrian, rcferrin~ to the rt~l involvement. 
He said t'ederal l~ureau of In­vestigation agents also wanted to talk to passengers to learn how to prevent similar hUackin~s in the future. 
Monday, September 8, 1986-page 5 


Doctors use tuboplasty to aid infertile wotnan 
Associated Press 
Cf11CACiO -In wh.rl they say is a rnedical fir..,I. dot tor.., lrd\'l' opened an infertile wonr<rn's bfocl<.cd t'alfopiar1 tube without sur~ery by usinB the sdnle bill­loon c.rllwt<·r ll'< hnique us<·d to t ledr < fomJed h<·.rr t '" ll'r ie.... 
If the new ll'< hnique, c.rlled balloon luboplilsly, leads to prqJnancies, it could save some women from co..,lly sur~J<TY to remove t'allopian lube blocka~es or the expense of test­tube fertilization, said t:dnHllld Confino, a n'Sl'dr< her ill ~lount Sinai Medit<rl Cenln in Chi< d~JO. 
Contino and Drs. Jan t'rillerB and Norbert Cileichcr used the technique six months d~JO to reopen <1 wonlan·.., lllot l<.ed tulle. The 3H-year-old \\Oill.rn·.., tulle 
r-en1ains open, llut ..,lw h.rs not 
llecomc prqJnanl. tier other 
tulle Wd.., IHliHldl. 
With tu!mpf.r..,ly, " wire quidc b inserted into the ~-dffopi.rlllullc to perforate the ill()( l<..r~Je. Then, " llaffoo11-lippcd <illlll'll'l is ill­scril'<l ,IJld the ll.rffoon i.., inIIdled to < on1pn·..,., till' '>< "' Jj..,..,,,l' ,IJld OJll'll fill' fttfll', 
Confi11o, \\IH> \\iff report on lullopldsl} idll-1 lhi..,rtH>nlh .1t the <lllllU<JI llln·lill~! of the Allll'ri<dll t'crtifity So<il'ly ill Toronto, sdid the outpaliclll tredllllellt t<JIH'.., dllout 15 minutes illld <ould <ost less tlldll $1,000. 
Dr. W. paul l>rnow..,I<.L dire< tor of the illfcllility Sl'< Iio11 dt l'rcsbyteri<lll-St. Luke's t!ospit.rf in Clli<d!JO, Cdllu! till' pr()( nlure 
d non·f "PJHOd< h tl1.rt """ the poil'llli.JI of ..,,1\ill~J..,Oilll' \\·orncn lro111 llll<ll-r~loill~\ llldjOI "'"~1<'1). 

The Observer 
Attention Saint Mary's Students 
The independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is now accepting applications for the following position: 


Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Questions about this position should be directed to Margie Kersten (284-5230), (239-5303). Application deadline Is Tuesday, September 9, at5PM. 
Business Plan Cantest 

S&.DDD.DD in c:ash prizes 
awarded this semester for the most complete
viable plan for a new business venture. 
Meeting Tuesday, September 9 


4:00 pm 122 Hayes Healy 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Entrepreneur Society in conjunction with the Business Advisory Council of the 
College of Business 
Sears at University Park Mall main level near the bakery 


The Observer 
Monday, September 8, 1986-page 6 


Reagan urges young people to 'say no' to drug use 
SANTA KARI~ARA, Calif. -Pres­ident Rea~an ur~c<f you11~ Am<iHfans Saturday to say no to dnr~and said those that do will be a hero in my book. 
The president used his weekly five-minute radio address to ap­peal directly to youn~ people: 
1111 ~oin~ to asl~ you a favor: say no to dru~s. <Hld tell your friends to say no. too.· 
He also announced Mrs. 
Reagan and t:ducation Secretary 
Williamlknnctt will issue a han<f­
bool~ later this month for com­
munities to usc to rid schools of 
dru~s. 
He ~ave no details of wlldl tile llamlbool~ would contain, but said, Just as surely as it will re­quire the dili~cncc of parents, teachers and principals, bcatin~ <fru~s in our schools will require the involvement of nci~hlmrs, cotlllllltllily ~roups, law enforce· ment officials, churches, and 
syna~o~ucs. 
l~ut most importantly, lle added, beating dru~s will require the coura~e and conviction of our youn~ people lhemselvcs. 
Speakin~ lrom his mountain­top ranch, Reagan said that over the summer Wcvc witnessed a ~rowing national awareness of the waste and tragedy that al­ways lies jusl one step behind dru~ usc.· 
t1e said there was no better time than now, and no bcllcr place than our schools lor people to get involved in <loin~ some­thing about drugs. 
Addressing youn~ people, Rea~an said, I know that some­times it takes all the coura~c you can muster to just say no, to ~o with your conscience, what you lmow is ri~llt, rather than with the pack. 
Prince Charles reacts as he is assisted by Francis Burr, right, chief marshall of the 350th anniversary celebration, during the singing of the Harvard Hymn last week in Cambridge, Mass. The prince was keynote speaker at one of three convocations being held on the anniversary of the prestigious school. Related story below. 



Harvard feels pressure 
Associated Press 
CAMimiDGt:, Mass. -l'rcssurc from ~ovcrnmcnt. business and special interest ~roups is threat­cnin~ Harvard University's inclc­pcndcncc, the school's president warned Saturday, ncar the end of a 350th anniversary celebra­tion. 
We arc not corporations, not instruments of national security, not militant bodies anxious to Ioree our vision of social justice on the world, Derek l~ok told a crowd tile police estimated at 
I 7, 000 in Harvard Yard. 
Anti-apartheid ~roups, includ­in~ one that forced the GIIKella­tion of an anniversary dinner t"riday, have demanded Harvard divest $4 I 0 million they said was invested in finns doin~ business in South Africa. 
There was no demonstration 
durin~ l~ok's speech, all11ou~h a 
faculty member at the rear of the 
audience held a pi<Kard rcadin~1 
Divest Now. 
An estimated I 7, 000 people 
attended the convocation, the 
last of three held at historic Har­
vanf Yard as part of the obser­
vance at the nation's oldest in­
stitution of hi~hcr learnin~. Most 
were alumni. 
Tile Fla~ at Harvard l~usincss School Flew at hall-stall to mark the death of a faculty member's husband in the attempted hUack­ing ofa jetliner at Karachi. Pakis­tan. 
t"arccna Sultan, the widow of Syed Ncsar Almw<f, joined the business school faculty in Au~ust as an assistant professor, said Harvard spokesman Peter Costa. 

Be a representative of the Admissions Office to your high school over October or Christmas break. 
Call Pat (X3584) or Brian (X I640) or stop by the Admissions Office (I I3 Administration Bldg.) for more info. Application deadline Sept. I 0. 
Guilty 
continuedfrom page I 

plead bdore .Jud~c Gerome t'recse, l~arnes s<lid. If Gallivan pleads ~uilty as expected, a prc­scntcncin~ invcsti~ation will be initiated, l~arncs said. 
Gallivan has the ri~ht to be sentenced within 30 days, though she may wave that right. he said. If she docs, Gallivan probably would be sentenced in 


Burglaries 
continuedfrom page I 

concious ill the middle of the year, he added. 
When a criminal is ap­prehcmled, Cottrell said, a bi~ effect is made on the munbcr of crimes that occur afterward. tfc said last sprinB tile police ar­rested three youths, aged 13 to 
16 years old, wl1o were respon­sible for a total of 25 burHiaries. 
between 30 ami 45 days, he said. 
The accident occurred <~I about .) a.m. as lfurley and two other stu<fenls were rrossillH at the li~ht on U.S. 31 and Saint Mary's Road. As they crossed, the Trans­AM str ucl~ tlurlcy Cllld l~nocl~ed him unconscious. None of the other students was injured. 
Hurley was taken to i"lcmorial Hospital where he underwent nine hours of sur~cry that day. He has been recovcrin~ and un­dcr~oin~ rehabilitation since then. 
The home bur~larics stopped right alter that. he said. 
A few criminals may be respon­sible lor <l larHe 1111111ber ol crimes, sdid Cottrell. lfc sdi<l l\\'0 bur~lars dpprehcndelL l"l'l cntly had worl~ed to~cther on n1on· than I00 bre;ll~-ins of ~lara~1l'S ami houses. 
Cottrell said he feels the stu­dents will be ea~er to \\'Orl~ with police on deu-c<Jsin~1 l>urHI<u-ies in their nei~1l1lmrhoods. lfc sdid even when the polil c llredl\ up parties, the studcuts l oopcr.rtl' because they know whctl the job of the police is. 


·A New Approach 
The Observer 
Represent your hall on the OCN, the new campus network designed to gather student opinion on issues which affect the community. 
For consideration, please submit your name, hall and phone number to: 
Frank Malone OCN manager The Observer 
3rd Floor Lafortune 239-5303 UMW®W\&SWM$iliiN2lW¥Wiii¥1iiMIMf&Uiil¥Mi 


You'II also qualify to win aTrek® 12-speed touring bike. And you'll walk away with afree bicycle cap. 
demonstration of the Macintosh1l! per­Macintosh and aTrek bike. sonal computer. Both will do more than help you You'll see how Macintosh can get ahead. Both will take you •'" help you work better, faster and smarter. anywhere you want to go. 
® 

Enter August 20 -October 3 Notre Dome Computer Store Room 25-Computing Center I Math Building 
Offer res/riclimts and deltilL,· are amilahle a/your mimxmn{mler center /Jifyde mps m·ailahle ll"hile supp(!' lasts. Trek" i< a trademark ofTrek fltqde COrp.© 19H6Apple Computer: Inc Apple and /be Apple logo are rl'J.ilslered /rat/emarks I!/Apple Omtputer: Inc Mm:ini1A<h i< tllrademark o{llclni!A<b Lahoralo ·. Inc and is hein 'l~,·ed u"ilb 1/s e.\ ress rmi.~<ion. 

--------~------­
The Observer Monday, September 8, 1986-page 7 
YOUR CHOICE 


Po-pe claims recent terrorist attacks 
Deluxe 4 or 5 drawer chest $79 95 . 4 drawer 

have altered hopes for world peace 
$89.95 5 drawer 

• 

E.R.L. FURNITURE Associated Press took the blood of innocent vic­his blessing that the silence of tims, blood of traveling brothers, the mountains was a silence in
1131 East Ireland Rd South Bend. IN COURMAYEUR, Italy-From an blood of brothers gathered in a · which man can hear more dis­Across from Scorrsdale Mail Alpine peak beside Mount Blanc, place of prayer. tinctly the inner echo of the voice 
291-4888 
Pope John Paul II said Sunday In the face of these horrendous of God. 
that the bloody terrorist attacks and almost unbelievable events, He hailed the mountaineers on the jetliner in Pakistan and the yearning for peace turns into who first climbed Mount !Slane the synagogue in Turkey had anguish, the pope said during 200 years ago and said their feat turned hopes for peace into an­his blessing, broadcast live on should serve as an example of 
guish. Italian television and transmitted perseverance today. 
It is necessary, without delay, worldwide by satellite. The pope also appealed for to do everything possible to put The pope then"walked carefully European unity. an end to the incessant escala­along a narrow, rocky path to From the height of this alpine
featuring the best pizza 

tion of hatred and terrorism, the pray at the statue of Mary the surrounding, which allows the 
.,

$1.00 off &pastaintown pontiff said during his noon Queen of Peace. eyes to look at the territories of 
.,

blessing from the 7,687-foot­The pope's blessing on Mount three different nations high rocky peak of Mount Chetif. Chetif was the feature of his 24-(Switzerland, France and Italy), I "1
any large pizza .,
hour visit to the Valle D'Aosta, a renew my appeal to Europe to 
.,

t-rom his pulpit facing the French-and Italian-speaking overcome anachronistic ten­
,

offer good Sept.9&10 
nearby cloud-covered snowy region at the foot of Mount Blanc. sions and preconceived notions 537 N St. Louis Street 233-2464 peak of Mount Blanc, Europe's and rediscover the reasons ofher highest mountain at 15,71 I feet, Earlier that day, he flew by unity and the values which made~----------------------------J John Paul said he was praying helicopter to the Brenva Glacier her history great through the 
FREE HAIRCUT-PERM-COLOR 
Women needed for Redken and Paul Mitchell Professional Hair Seminar for demonstration of the latest hairstyles 
This is your opportunity to receive a makeover by the winner ofthe 'Hairdresser ofthe Year' award 
Should be open to change Call 256-2033 for details 


FAMILY HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS·------, 
:s20FF ADULT CU.T I 
I Reg. $8 MasterCuts I 
L--------------~~~~-~
:$20FF ADULT CUT I 

I MasterCuts I
I Reg· $8 ~ harcuttes I t------~----------~-1 


:$2Qff.~.KID~.Ls : 
I Reg. $6, Now $4 ~haircutters I ~------------------~ 




MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
University Park Mall 2n.3no 
for the souls of the more than on Mount Blanc's southern face, course of the centuries," he said. three dozen people killed in the at an altitude of about I I, 000 two terrorist episodes. He called feet. Switching from Italian to the attacks insane. Wearing a white ski jacket over French, the pope said, Near the 
He spoke of his intense sad­his cassock, a cap with ear flaps summit of Europe, where the ness and offered his strongest and white snow boots, the pope frontiers join in a grandiose condemnation of Friday's hUack­strolled alone on the glacier for landscape, I repeat my wishes to ing of a Pan Am jumbo jet in about 20 minutes. the men and women of the con­Karachi and Saturday's attack on The pope, an avid skier and tinent: that they keep the en­a synagogue in Istanbul. outdoorsman in his native terprising spirit of their ances­
• 
The pope said the terrorists Poland during his youth, said in tors. 

Wear it 



with pride! 
If you have plenty of energy and a flair for plt•asing tht• puhlic, you could get a great thing growing with tht• popular nt•w rt•staurant concept, the Olive Garden. opening soon in South Bt•nd. 
Our ""Hospitaliano!"" • hutton t>xprt>HHt•s our upht•at customt·r· pleasing styl£'. And, when you put it on. vou"ll t•njoy all its ndvnntages: compt>titivt> Halarit>s, complt•tt• training and a fun ntmosphere. 
We seek: 

• HostssmtJ HoHWHHt'H • Waitt•rsand Waitrt•sst•s 
• Hartt•ndt•rs • Cashit·rs • Prt•p.Cooks • Lint· <'ooks 
• Production CookH • l>iHhw<u~ht•rs • Buspt•rsons 
• l 'tility Peoplt> • Pasta Makt•rs • Pizza ( "ooks 
S<~ join in the spirit of :·HoHpitali<~no~" •. And hutton Uj> a tt·rrifi<' new Joh. Please apply an JM'rHon Monday through Saturday, between Ha.m. and 6 p.m., at the Olive (;ardt>n Italian Restaurant, 6410 Grape Road, Mishawaka, I~ ·&65·a.&. An Equnl Opportunity Affirmativt• Artion Employt•r. 

------~--------~ 
"ie~E_O_i_n__t_____________M-ond-ay,se-pt~-bers_.l986--p-~es 
Question of t~e week: Activities on campus 
As a new year of social activity begins, there must be student input on what events they would like to see on campus. Students have complained of lack of variety and events uninteresting to the campus in previous years. What would you suggest be done to get a greater variety of activities and to increase participation in campus events.? What type of activities would you like to see? 

Viewpoint will be focusing on one timely campus, national or international issue each Monday in the "Question of the week" sec­tion. We would like you to address these issues. 
Responses must be between 75 and 100 words and must list name, major, hall and year. 
Viewpoint will print· as many legitimate responses. as space allows each Monday. In the event that all submissions cannot be printed, those appearing in Viewpoint will be representative ofall responses. 
"Question of the week" responses must be received by 5 PM on the Friday before responses are scheduled to run. 
The Viewpoint Department will also ac­cept suggestions for future "Question of the week" topics. 

P.O. BoxQ 
High ND phone costs are a wrong number 
Dear t:ditor: 
After scraping up funds for paying this semester's tuition bill (I made cnou!.lh this summer to pay for one-half of a half­year"s tuition, and that was a good job), I decided to sec just what we get for our money. The tuition increase ami room and board increase can't very well be argued against. But what were these other costs that increased my bill to $1 1,656 for the year'? I seriously consid­ered talking about the $1 I 0 miscel­laneous fcc, but I fi!.lurcd that I'd go with the $71 phone service char!.lc per student per semester first and save the other for later. 
I live in a quad where four people pay $71 per semester for one phone. Recall­ing my required math course that"s $568 per school year 18 monthsl for phone ser­vice. This price seems highly unreason­able considerin!.l that 56.8 ( I, 363.2 cans) of liquid refreshment could he consumed at the same price. My entire donn could catch some excitement off of that. 
But where is the money going, consid­ering $568, 000 is spent for service for 8, 000 people which is approximately 2, 777 phones (taking into account all ol the quads & triples & doubles)'? Is our phone director spending his weekends in Tahiti'? Was I served caviar upon entering his office? I asked myself. 
So, after being shuffled around to about four offices after my inquiry, I fi­nally met him, Steve t:llis, our campus phone director. He was a very nice guy, and I apologize if I insert any extraneous comments. Anyway, he first presented me with the statistical fact that ND is average 
Doonesbury 
(or sli!.lhtly helowl olhcr Indiana collq1c phone service prices, and th.It we arc !.let­ting a good deal. Somebody is getting a !.lOOd deal -hut not us. 
I asked if we could buy our phones and he replied that you pay for lhc service not the phone. So who sets the phone charges'? AT&T-that's what I thought but gccz, it's Notre Dame. As to what we arc paying for... operators -heck ot a salary they must make! 
As to why a quad pays $568 for one phone and a single pays $I 72, he said that om circuits were equipped with a quasi-quad capacitor that is capable of han<llin!.l 4 times the amount of calls. I don't lmow about others, but I would say that 20 calls a week could be handled by a regular circuit for $396 less a year. Quoting his service repair prices of $150 a call, we could risk two circuit breaks and still have $96 leftover, or I could have my electrical engineer roommate fix it for a dollar. Isn't it silly when our local In­diana residents only pay $20 a month for unlimited usage'? (I wonder if they have the quasi capacitor"?) 
I <lorn think we should pay so much for service. Arc we paying for service of all the faculty, graduate students and ad­ministrators too'? I think we should find out. Give Steve t:llis a call. After all, you're paying for it. 
Mike Ooe/Jel 
Alumni Hall 


Promotion 
Sophomore Patrick Creadon has been named to the position of Assistant View­point Editor. Creadon, from Riverside IL, is enrolled in the College of Business. Previous to his work with Viewpoint, Creadon served as news staff reporter. 


Use of vulgar language commonplace in society 
and will lind people fillin!.l concert h<JIIs to sec t:ddic Murphy ,md other vul~\dr en· 
tcrtainers·? 
Now wait, I do fin<! t:d<!ic Mul'phy very funny. I mean really, really funny. ISut seriously, docs llt' need to u.,t. so m<~ny obscenities <111<1 \'UI~\dr lldsc., in hi., d< h'? I personally do not lind the nude jokes more Iunny than the < lt'.1n ones. So, again, w·hy usc so IIlli< h offensive l<~n­gua!.lc'? 
One m<lY say, We arc adults. What is tl,1c lli!.l dear? Well. docs the I<~< t t11.1t \n· arc older cntitlt· tl., to spt·dh. <IU<kl~ ju.,l ds lldnH lfi yc,ns ol<l entitles u., to <It i\ c in most states and tu1 nin~\ 11 entitles u., to a le!.lal 6-pcrccnt beer in most .,t,Jtcs'? I do not think so. 
"Why is it that the vulgar and obscene words that once brought a bar of soap to one's mouth have become a part of so many peo­ple's everyday language?" 
I person.tlly find tlw e.,ll"n.,i\l· U.,<. ol vul!.larity, obsn:nitics .111<l other .tbusiH· language tactless, not at all mature and llllllcccssary. When one overhears some boys and girls, maybe d!.lCS I 0 lo I I, ,md their com·<·rsation is filled \\ith ofh·n<>in: lan~1uagc, it makes one wondct \\ h.tt h.ind ol job we arc doin!l as mle models .tnd what kind of world this is \\'l" .trc ,,II growing up in. 
i'l.tru Fkrucr i.<> a .'>opl!omon· enrol/eel in the Anrwr.'i, fr.tnn· {ordun pronr<~m and i.o., " n·.qu/,n Viewpoint colt111llli.,t. 
Quote of the day "Your only obligation in any 
lifetime yourself."  is  to  be  true  to  
Richard Bach "Illusions"  

General Board 

The Observer 
Ed•tor tn·CI'uef Joe Murphy Busmess Manager Er1c Scheuermann Managmg Ed1tor Kev1n Becker Controller Alex VonderHaar 
P. 0. Box 0. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
V1ewpomt Ed1tor Scott Bearry Proauctwn Manager Chr~s Bowler . Sports Ed1tor Denn1s Corrogan Photography Manager James Carroll The Observer 1S the rndependent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Ed1tor Mary Jacoby Advert1smg Manager Anne M.CulliganSity of Notre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College II does not necessar.ly reflect the [;a1.,t Mary's Ed1tnr Marg1e Kersten 
Systems Manager Shawn Sexton
pohcleS of the adm1n•strat•on of e•ther mst1tut1on The news IS reported as dCcuratety 
NewsEdttor Tr~pp Ballz Graphtc Arts Manager Mark Weimholl
and ob1t!CI1vely as poss1ble Uns1gneo ed1t011als represent the op1n101' of a ma1011ty ol 
News Edttor Mark Pankowski OCN Manager Francis X. Malone the EdltOIIal Board Commentaroes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of thell authors Column space 1S ava1lable to all members ol the commun1ty and the tree express1on of varv1nQ op11110ns on campus. through letters. IS encouraged 
Founded November 3,1966 

The openin!.l act for a concert I attended this swnn1er cancelled at the last minute and was replaced by a local supposedly successful, comedian. Durin!.l his forty­minute stint, I lmmd about threc-and-<J­hall of his jokes anntsin!.l. The other .)!) minutes were filled with vuiHmity <Jnd obscenities. 
Mary Berger 
footnotes from france 
It appeared to me the man did not think any of his jokes w·ould ticl<.lc the audi­ence's Iunny bone unless he used vulgar and obscene des< riptin· adjectives for emphasis. Instcad, I hc,ml m;my of the people around me complaining about his choice of words. 
Why is it that the vulgar and obscene words that once brought a bar of soap to one's mouth have become <1 part of so many people's everyday lan!.luae·? Why do entertainers mid a little more punch to their punch lines with dirt'? Ami what about the advertising one sees everyday'? It has not escaped either. The ad lor Perry t:llis' new fra!1r<~ncc for men has a copy which uses "the four-lcttcr-r-word" spell out in a han!.lman fashion. 
Where is the appeal in it all'? Advertising spends hi~! bucks to bring in big bucks. What is it about society today that will find Perry t:llis acceptable and desirable 
Garry Trudeau 
AN{} TO 7HIN!<.
UM... HOW
GREAT. CANT NO, IT RtalJIR£5
/QUL, HER& I Off} IT, 

A80UTNIN£;
fl)NG 00 YOU
YOU SHOW rr 7lXJ M/J015PAC£. 
IGAV&UPGO/N6
H(){)/<5. I 517/l..
I AM. U/HAT'5 ~;'t;/dMY 

TO MEAT MYFRJENO{)!{}/ 
7V TH& aNTIST
THIN!<.TH/9 
HAV&50Mt
GOING ON'? P8RfORMANa3 

HOME? VOWNT!ZRBJ HeR. 
TOBtH&Rb.

WILL. TAKe? 
Cl/TS 7lJ MAKE.
I AR.TrruA.u/c_ 

I I
I I \ LOfT/ 
Monday, September 8, 1986-page 9 eObserver 





SAINT MARY'S WEEKEND 
Ill• fJfl">l'llf/\/,111(,11'' 'l./111<11/ 1111' f If I._. Ill 1 lu-·111/ ....UUIII 


i j 
i 
4 
i i 
I 



Accent 

Monday, September 8, 1986-page 10 
An interesting year: 

eeYPT... 
PEGGY PROSSER 
/'('a/ures Writer 

I 
Interested in a change of pace from the daily grind of the Notre Dame or Saint Mary's classroom? Does the idea of climbing the Great Wall of China, riding a camel around the pyramids in 
I 
Egypt or visiting the birthplace ofJesus Christ sound appealing? ~eenan senior John Jaspers
• 
said these opportunities and

I 
many more made hisjunior year 
of foreign study"the best experi­

t ence of my entire life." Jaspers was a participant in Notre Dame's foreign studies programs in China; Cairo, Egypt; and Jerusalem, Israel this past school year. A mechanical engi­neering and government major, Jaspers was allowed to continue his rigidly structured engineer­ing curriculum at the American University in Cairo, after spend­ing the summer studying Chinese at the Tianjin Foreign Languages Institute in Tianjin, China. His second semester was spent at the Notre Dame Ecumenical Institute in Tantur, Israel. 
Where did the idea to spend a year visiting more than I 0 countries come from? The inspi­ration came after Jaspers signed up for a beginning Chinese course. Early in the semester he was referred to the program by the professor. Jaspers attended several orien­"The group was treated as standards, but was equivalent to lion at AUC for their Ia.\ attitudes 
"I took the class on a whim, and tation meetings on the history of somewhat of a novelty by the five dollars in U.S. currency. toward student cln•H usc. The when I was in the class, she China, Chinese culture and the Chinese people,"Jaspers said." If Jaspers left China vi~) the Trans usc of hashish, a marijuana-like advised me to apply for the pro­political system in China." It was we'd walk into an empty shop the Siberian Railway, traveled substance, was prevalent in stu­gram. She said I was doing well a rather extensive informational place would suddenly fill up with through Mongolia, Siberia, "dcnt dorms, and Jaspers said, in the class, so I did," Jaspers program,"he said. It was also at Chinese customers who wanted Asiatic Russia and Moscow, The administration looked the said. this time that he met the other to know what the foreigners were where they were allowed to tour other way." 
"When the opportunity to go to I 0 students taking part in the doing." Red Square, Lenin's Tomb, and "Well, being used to the admin· China came up I realized. ttwt program. While at the institute, the the Kremlin. He then went islration at Notre Dame, which is going to China would be a more Jaspers left Indiana on June 7, group took courses in the through Poland, t:ast Germany, generally one that is very con­valuable way of spending the 1985, and traveled by train to Chinese language, which for West Germany and eventually the cerned with students, the admin­summer than working." California, where he met the some, was a continuation of the Netherlands, where he visited his istration at AUC did not live up 
In December of his sophmore group at the San Francisco air­course taught at Notre Dame. brother, whom he had not seen to the lli~h standards of Notre year, Jaspers looked into the port. The group new from San Most of the other students were in seven years. Dame ami Saint Marys,"Jaspers Cairo, Egypt program, which was Francisco to Tokyo, Japan, able to catch up with the rest of After spending I 7 days visit in~ said. then still in the planning stages. where they spent the night in a the class rather quickly. He also with his family, he traveled by Jaspers spent his Christmas in The following spring. he received nearby hotel. Because of an air­added that the use of the ian· airplane to Cairo, t:gypt. The first Jerusalem amllkthlchcm am'l in approval from the engineering line mix-up, Jaspers was sent guage with the natives made thing he noticed upon his arrival, early t"cbruary traveled to Tan­department and Army ROTC to alone to another hotel and was mastering Chinese much easier was that t:gypt was not tile t"irst tur, Israel. The students par­continue his studies abroad. left on his own to check into the for the group. World. He cited examples of sol· ticipating in the Jerusalem pro­Since it was also an official Notre hotel and order meals, though Along with regular classroom diers on the airfield as the plane gram stayed at the Notre Dame Dame foreign studies program, he did not speak Japanese. instruction, the group also took landed, and army machinery on t:cumcnical Institute, con­Jaspers was also granted the The Notre Dame group was tours around China. Jaspers des­tile airport grounds. structed by University !'resident necessary financial aid to make greeted at the Beijing airport by cribed his trip to the Gr,eat Wall. The students lived in a hostel, t"athcr Theodore tksburgh, who the trip. officials from the Tianjin Foreign sayini'lt was an amazing thing, approximately 40 minutes from was asked by Pope l'aul VI to 
Because of his Languages Institute and wer~ to realize that such a structure the American University in Cairo. create an ecumenical institute ArtS/Engineering double major, housed in the foreign experts which goes on for well over a They shared a common living for the university. Jaspers will be studying for five quarters at the institute. While thousand miles could be built so room, bathroom and kitchen Tantur was described by years. When the opportunity to there, one of the first things the many centuries ago in the kind within an apartment suite. They Jaspers as"a virtual shanHri-la. go abroad became possible, group had to become accus­of territory where I saw it, in were also treated to daily maid The grounds arc beautiful, the Jaspers eagerly volunteered for tomed to was the fact that water mountainous territory." servi<.e, including having their faculty was excellent, and the the program." Five years in the was only turned on at specific Jaspers also explained their beds made. staff was warm and friendly," he same place can get a bit times of the day, and all water trip to the mountain of Tai Shan, Jaspers described the city of said. monotonous, and taking a year had to be boiled before it was which he described as" a beautiful Cairo, sayin~'lts sort of in a river His visit to the Dome of the off right in the middle some­drinkable. mountain in the Shandong prov· valley, the Nile River Valley, and Rock was a particularly where else can keep things inter­So how was the authentic ince, has had about 7,000 steps so there's tile cscartment to tile memorable trip." It~ a beautiful esting and keep the monotony Chinese food'? Comparable to carved into it ami built upon its cast and west. beyond which lies sh ri nc on the site of the old down,"Jaspers said. the food served in the dining side over the last two and a half tile desert. ami the city lies only Jewish temple before it was 
How did his parents react to halls on those great theme millenia. Beautiful poems writ­in the valley. It's a situation destroyed by the Romans, an ab­his out-of-the-ordinary idea? nights? ten in aesthetically appealing somewhat similar to Los An­solutely beautiful monument." 
"Well, sending a son away to "Theres no such thing as aut­Chinese calligraphy arc carved geles, in that the wind seals the he said. somewhere else like Egypt hentic Chinese food," according into rock faces and stone posts. smog in. And Cairo has a lot of Describing the spiritual aspect sounds a bit strange to anyone, to Jaspers. There are many kinds Various temples, tea houses and cars, so it tends to be a bit smog­of Jerusalem, Jaspers said it is and it sounded strange to them of Chinese food." Here in the restaurants have been built over gy." the third holiest city in Islam, the too,"he said. Jaspers did admit, United States, one tends to sec the course of the many centuries Originally planning to be in second holiest city in Christianity however, that there were some only Cantonese food, but Can­that Tai Shan has been a tourist Cairo for the entire school year, and the holiest city in Judaism. misgivings, due to the unstabie tonese food is perhaps one of at attrraction." Jaspers applied to leave in mid­Jaspers returned to the United political situation in the Middle least five or six distinct regional The group actually raced to the· October. After reading the States this past May. So, after all East. He said that the family had types." top of the mountain, and th~ description of the Jerusalem pro­that. is he glad to be hack at read extensively on the political So what did they eat? Breakfast climb took a total of six hours. gram in a course catalog, he home in Indiana and back on problems, but that they contin­consisted of eggpl~nt, which "It was a very close finish, and we app~icd to the Notre Dame Office campus at Notre Dame'? ued to support his idea. Jaspers described as 'cooked as were dead two clays later," of t"oreign Studies to change pro­
A native of LaPorte, Indiana, many different ways as you can Jaspers said. grams. Citing reasons of classes "Yes, lm glad to be back. I think Jaspers said he simply wanted imagine, and then a few." Lunch Another experience Jaspers at AUC not being con1pmablc to I can appreciate what we have to get an idea of what the rest of was usually rice with meat or related was their roles as extras Notre Dame standards and con­here at Notre Dame and what I the world was like~ If you're going vegetables, and dinner was in a full-length Chinese feature flicts with AUC professors over have here in Indiana a lot better to someplace to find a different usually the same. Jaspers also film. The group dressed up in the school's permissive attitude because of what lvc seen else­experience, and if you're going mentioned the easy availability 1920's style outfits and sat be­toward cheating in certain where, ami also I've gotten to sec overseas, you might as well try of beer, which could be bought hind the main characters in a classes, Jaspers application was a good deaf ofthe world and how for the most different experience in 24-ouncc bottles for approxi­boxing scene. Their pay for the approved. the rest of humanity lives. It was you can," Jaspers said. mately 34 cents in U.S. ex­three hours they worked would Jaspers admitted to being dis­good to get away hn a year, and 
1\cforl~ leavinn for China, change. be considered plenty by Chiw~sc appointed with the admini'>tra-now it"s good to be l>ack." 
• 

Monday, September 8, 1986-page 11 
Defense keys win 
Awesome Oklahoma blasts UCLA 
Associated Press 
Most coaches try to stay IHimble after a m<\ior victory. but after his football team crushed fourth-ranked UCLA 38-3 Satur­day, Oklahoma's !Sarry Switzer couldn't restrain himself. 
" Our defense played wdl enou~h to have a shutout:' Swit­zer said of his clcfendin~ national champions and No. I ranked te<mtwe were fortunate enou~h to stop their runnin~ ~ame and play five defensive backs most of the time." 
While the Sooners' offense amassed 479 yards, 470 on the ~round. their defense. led by ISrian ISosworth, restricted the ISruins to 34 yards rushin~ and 
I 2 I passin~. 
t:lsewhere amon~ ranked teams. No. 3 Miami downed No. 13 rlorida 23-15, No. 5 Alabama demolished Vanderbilt 42-I 0. No. 6 Penn State beat Temple 45-15, No. H Nebraska stopped No. I I rlorida State 34-I 7, No. 
Interested? 

Coli Lieutenant Flanagan or Lieutenant McKnight 
239-6264 
12 Baylor edged Wyoming 31­28, No. 14 Auburn beat Tennessee-Chattanooga 42-14, and No. 18 Brigham Young ripped Utah Sliete 52-0. 
Oklahoma's sophomore quar­terback. Jamelle Holieway, who completed one of six passes for nine yards but was intercepted twice, rushed for 83 yards on I 0 carries and scored the Sooners' first touchdown. leading six other teammates, who individu­ally rushed for more yards than the Bruins' team. 


IT CAN HAPPEN TO ANYONE: 
•rva•••

~C.AWI~I. 
,,.ft I • AJ "1:' 
.., • .., I c. I yc. 

SMC Lecture Series 

Stapleton Lounge 6:45PM 

11011 SEPT 8 
TUES SEPT 9 WEDS SEPT 10 
THURS SEPT 11 
SUI SEPT 14 MON SEPT 15 TOES SEPT 16 


Former Notre Dame head football coach Gerry Faust, shown here celebrating after an Irish victory, was on the winning side again Saturday -this time as head coach of the University of Akron football team. Faust's Zips blasted tiny Salem, W. Va, College, 35-0, in the season opener for both teams. Details appear below. 
'Nervous' Faust happy with first Akron win 
Associated Press 
AKRON, Ohio (API the task is the same, ami accomplishing it just as satisfying no matter what the level of competition, Gerry Faust said after tucking away his first victory as football coach at the University of Akron. 
" Theres pressure to win for any coach at any level. " raust said after the Zips blanked tiny Salem. W.Va.. College 35-0 Sat­urday night. 
The former Notre Dame coach admitted that nerves bothered him throughout the clay. but he refused to place any special sig­nificance to the game. 
" It was important for the kids to win, and it was important to the program:' Faust said. 
"BEYOID RAPE" "BUT I DEW_.. 
•THE DmtiG GAME" MEDICAL AID LEGAL ISSUES OF SEXUAL ASSAULT 
"llll SOMEONE" CHID SEXUAL ABUSE AND 
IICEST 
"tiOti-VIOLENCE APPROACII" 

The game was ~-aust's first since he resigned after five years at Notre Dame, where he regis­tered a record of 30-26-1. 
"We have a long way to,go to be a good football team, Faust said,"but lm happy with this first game." 
He said he felt no uneasiness that the victory came at the hands of Salem. an NAIA school with I, 200 students. Akron. with 
26.000 students. is hoping to move from NCAA division 1-AA to the big-school Division 1-A next year. 
"There arc a lot of good NAJA schools out there:' Faust said."AII lm interested in is winning and coming out without any injuries. Youre glad you got that No. I game _out of the way. It was a good victory. but we've got to im­prove I00 percent. " 
This coming week is an impor­tant week. You have to improve immensely between the first and second games. 
Faust's debut drew a crowd of 35,202 to the Rubber Bowl. which had been the site of four of his biggest victories as a high school coach at Cincinnati Moel­ler. Moeller won four state cham­pionships in the stadium. 
" I think the people of Akron really came out for us." Faust said."lf we can draw crowds like that every week, we can be a good 1-A team." 
Salem Coach Corky Griffith was impressed with Faust. who visited the Salem locker room after the game to talk with the Tiger players. But Griffith was un­convinccd about Akron's future. 
" I wasnt very impressed at all," Griffith said~'l thought we should have beat them. I still think we could have beat them if we hadnt had some key kids go down." 
Salem lost startin~ quarter­hack Jimbo risher to a strained knee in the first quarter. and tile Ti~crs' offense was largely inef­fective the rest of the way. 

The Observer Monday, September 8, 1986 -page 12 


Notre Dame volleyball players Jill Suglich (7) took second place in a four-team tournament, and Zanette Bennett ( 12) go for the block in a defeating Indiana but dropping their match with contest held last season. This weekend the Irish Purdue. Rick Rietbrock has details on page 16. 
Agreat pizza is getting harder and harder to find. 
But ben It la. Great tuty cn~st Lua­bave to go out or your way to tlnd us. douaaauoe. Rea.l cbeese, grated fresh. we go out or our way to make It worth Topplnp, topplop, topplnga every step you take. 

·.~ Goclf tba... ~----~






--sr ~~~­
52920 U.S. 31 N 277-5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------1 Sunday-Monday Coupon Special 
Receive a medium single ingredient original style pizza and an order of cheese bread for $5.50 
Good for carry out or delivery ~ 
Delivery and tax extra 
Expires 9/22186 Not valid with any other offer ~­
L----------------------------------­
Belles nip Oberlin, 1-0, to even weekend mark 
By PAISLEY McMAHON 
SfJOit.... Wlitt'l 
The Saint Mary'-; soccer tec1n1 beat the Oberlin ColleHc wo­men's soccer club 1-0 Saturday at Angela t"icld to even its weekend slate after suffcrin~l a 5-2 loss l..riday to Marquette at MiiWi!liiH:C. 
The lklles. wiH>'>C record now st<IIHb at 1-I' played dn amlre'>­sivc Hdme "Bilinst Oberlin'., stronB defense, pmtiurlarly in the second half when tile team scored its winning goal. 
Colccn Keefe, a freshman, scored the winnin~l point late in the second half with an assist by Mollie Meehan. also a freshman. 
Belles head coach John Akers was very pleased with Saturday's Olltcome. 
"We played a good passing game with several opportunities for scores:' he said." I was afraid that the players might be tired after the eight-hour trip to Ma.r· quctte the day before, but we played stronger in the second half than the first." 
Saint Mary's did nol fare as well t'riday in its game against Mar­quette. 
Bennett 
continued/rom page 16 
placed tap to win the serve. 
A carrying violation on Indiana 
was followed by a spectacular 
Kathy Baker-to-Merchant-to-Jill 
Suglich save and score. Two In­
diana mistakes gave the Irish a 
15-14 lead, and after an ex­
change of side-outs, l~aker hit 
the game-winner. 
Lambert said he was thrilled 
with the team's opening-match 
performance. 
" I am just delighted and proud 
of the way we played," llc said. ''To do this well again'>! a top-hdlf Big Ten team is a real boost:" 
Notre Dame's performance 
against Purdue, however, was 
not something of which to be 
proud. The Irish were thumped 
in three straight games and 
lacked the edge they possessed 
the night before. 
Tile first game began with the 
Irish pulling ahead 5-2 behind 
strong play from Mary Kay Waller 
before Purdue assumed com­
mand. ~·rcshman Kathy Cwmin­
gllam kept the Irish close, but 
they finally lost I I-15. 
The second game was a series Senior team captain l'lary Anne 
Perri scored tile first HOd! of tile 
Hamc late in tile fir'>! lwll on dn 
indin·< t penalty l'i< k. 

And ai!IH>U~lll minute'> I.Jtn 
Meehan scored tile second ~loctl 
of tile game, those olfensive 
moves were not enough to '>lop 
tile horne ll'an1 from S( orin~\ tile 
ITI!ldininq ."> poinh of tile ~\dllll'. 
Tile team hc~d no t llanu: to 
scrimmage before tile firo.;t game 
of tile season on t·riday, noted 
Akers. And Marquette is one of 
the better teams well play this 
year so well learn a lot from the 
game. II we llad played an ea'>ier 
team we wouldn't have learned 
as much." 

Akers' goal for the team this 
season is consistency in play. 
"Saturday proved thi'> goal," he 
said," with con'>istent effort for 
the full 90 minute'>." 

The Belles' next game is Tues­
day at 4 p.m. at home against 
Kalamazoo College. 

"(We) face a more difficult 
o;chedule this season, said Akers. "hut we hope to approach tile game Tuesday with the same at· 
titudc as last Saturday:' 


Air Force ROTC plus your college degree adds up to a commission as an Air Force officer. While you're still in col­lege our two-, three-. and four-year scholarships can offset the high cost of tuition, fees and books. And you can receive $100 per month for living expenses. 
We're looking for young men and women who are working toward degrees in science and engineering areas. We have a very special future for you. As an Air Force officer you'll work at the forefront of technology with modern equipment and support. You'll make the most of your degree and lay the groundwork for the future. 
For yourself and your future, find out more about our for­mula for your future. Find out more about Air Force ROTC. Contact: 
239-6634 
Gateway to a great way of life. 
of communication breakdowns, missed serves, and misplaced shots. Those factors finally added up to a sound 6-15 Notre Dame loss. 
Cunningham was strong, once again, in the third game hut Purdue was too much to over· come. The Irish made numerous diving digs, only to miss the point-winning shot. That missing link paved the way to a 7-15 Notre Dame loss. 
Lambert said his squad's lack of preparedness was the most disappointing aspect of the loss. 
"We had a golden opportunity to show everyone some of our capabilities and we just were not ready to play,"he observed." We must stay in tunc with the busi· ness at hand and keep our minds on the noor. Wejust did not play well at all." 
Irish players Cunningham and Maureen Shea were selected to the All·Tournament Team by the coaches. Others selected were Indiana's Karin KnolL Sharon Strayer of Ball State, and Linda Reichl and Debbie McDonald of Purdue. 
Next on the schedule for the Irish is this weekend's Rice Tournament, held in Houston, Texas. 
A FORMULA FOR YOUR FUTURE 


----~~----~~~-----~--­
The Observer 
Bears, Skins take wins as NFL begins season 
Monday, September 8, 1986 -page 13 

Chicago Bears quarterback Jim McMahon, de_fen~ing S~per Bowl Champion team to victory, shown here throwing over Buffalo Bills players th1s t1me w1th a 41-31 win over the Cleveland Hal Garner (99) and Eugene Marve (54) in last Browns yesterday. Details on more of yesterday's weekend's exhibition game, once again led his NFL opening-week games appear at left. 
Things have been goinn much second team and a fourth that smoother up the middle for the hasnt played,· said Holtz.
Rehder 

lr ish, meanwhile, thanks to the lJuniorl Jim !Saugus 16-4, 2561
continued/rom page 16 

performance of senior center is at center and he had a hack to con1e lhrounh because we arc Chuck Lanza. operation and has never playe<l hurtinH at the tackle position. " One of the most pleasant at Notre Dame. 
In addition to bcinn thrust into suprises on our whole football " Our two guards would be an unfamiliar role. Rehder had team has been center Chuck freshmen Dean Brown 16-4, 2471 the additional task of having to Lanza:• said Holtz~ We were really and Jeff Pearson 16-4, 242). At improve his over-all strength concerned about center, hut he rinht tackle there would he an­durinH the Slllllllll'L has relly tal\cn charne at that po­other freshman. Tim Grunhard 
t1avinH senior l'ete f{okich IG-sition. Youve not to l>c stron~ 16-4, 2401." 7, 2621 and senior Tom Riley 16-down the middle to be a good 6, 2581 bcinn hurt this summer football team." · 
EXTRA POINTS . The and us not findinn out about it Lanza, a 6-3, 255-pounder, Notre Dame football team held until the day they reported set us has appeared in every game over its last team scrimmage before hack ill tackle, said tloltz. So we the past two seasons. the Michigan opener on Friday moved lseniorl John Askin 16-6, "In the back-up positions, 
afternoon. The scrimmage was 2GH I to lilcklc Ifrom wwrdI and which concerns you, we have ba­
closed to the media as well as he is pushin~ Rehder. sically three freshmen on the 
the I public. 

Associated Press 
The Chica~o Bears, winners in the last Super l~owl and losers in the first usc of an instant replay official in Nn. history, started defense of their championship with a 4 I -3 I victory over the Clevcl;m<l l~rowns yesterday. 
The ~lame was in its third play from scrin11na~lc when the l~rowns' AI Gross was credited with a touchdown after a bad snap from center by the tscars bounded into the end zone. 
The officials on the field <lid not call a safety or a touchdown until they ~ot the word from the replay booth that it was a touch­down. 
"The first two replays I saw it didnt look like he had possession by looking.' replay official Nick Skorich said~'t~ut the third replay came on which clearly showed he ~ot possession. 5o I went back to them on the system and I said no question on the replay that it is a touchdown." 
The lkars ~ot ri~ht back into the ~ame when Dennis Gentry returned the ensuin~ kickoff 91 yards for a touchdown, then relied <'n all-time leadin~ rusher Walter Payton, who ~ained I 13 yards ami scored two touch­downs. 
In other season-openin~ ~ames, it was Atlanta 31, New Orleans I 0; Detroit 13, Min­nesota I 0; Houston 3 I, Green l~ay 3; Los An~cles Rams 16, 51. 
Louis  I 0;  Washin~ton  41,  
Philadelphia  14; and San t"ran­ 
cisco 31, Tampa IMy 7.  

Redskins 41, Eagles 14 
Jay Schroeder threw for two touchdowns and ran for another, lcadin~ Washin~ton over Philadelphia in l~uddy Ryan's debut as an Nt"L head coach. 
Kelvin Bryant playin~ his first ~amc for the Rcdsl,ins after a successful three-year tenure in the USt"L, scored twice. He cau~ht a 36-yanl touchdown pass from Schroeder in the first quarter and Bryant"s 16-yard touchdown run in the third quar­ter ~ave the Redskins a 34-14 lead. 
Oilers 31, Packers 3 
Warren Moon sparkled in Houston's victory over Green f~ay, throwin~ two touchdown passes and numin~ for another. 
Rams 16, Cardinals 10 
t:ric Dickerson ran for 193 yards and two touchdowns on a career-hi~h 38 carries, leading Los Angeles over St. Louis, ruining Gene Stallings' debut as Cardinals coach. 
In later ~ames, it was San Die~o 50, Miami 28; New York Jets 24, l~uffalo 17; Denver 38, Los An~cles Raiders 36; New t:n­~land 33, Indianapolis 3; Kansas City 24, Cincinnati 14; and Seattle 30, Pittsburgh 0. 

NEED $ FOR FALL BREAK? NEED S TO GO HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS? 


UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICES 
BETTER THAN EVER! 
NOW HIRING A FEW AMBITIOUS STUDENTS • • • 
Positions Available are: 
Waiters Waitresses Bartenders Attendants 
Casual Employment Catering Positions 


Cal I the Central Administration of University Food Services at 239-7254 to apply. 

The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
.Juo.,l on·r .1 rnirnrlc into the '>c< oil(I h.JII Sler nl>lT~~ put in " lw.rdn oil " Cilli~1non lilT f,ill\. 
!Sui the lrhh kll ,ro.,leep . .rml ~linm:sot.r·.., .J,ur Knutsen scored oil " rebound lo end Notre D<llnc·s o.,hulout o.,lreal\ ol 
230:42. 
Win~back l'.1ul (iluci\O\\' lini.shecl llw scorin~ on <1 run clown the fell side. 
As the n<~me wound down, IHJ\\l'\l'l", ICdlll Cdpi.Jin Slen: l.m,nc) bruised the inside pdrts of both l\necs ,rs he was lmocl\cd llcacl-m·er-hccls while contestin~ a ball. Lowney had played <Ill ex­cellent ~arne, winni11~1 nlilll)' free i>.JIIs ,md pl.1yin~ solid defense. 
Au~ustyn was IlK only other casualty in this wccl\crHI's action. tk took a keeper's l\ncc lo tile chest as Ill' r.rcccl lor a free ball 
in tile ~oal area in ll1e l'unluc ~l·lnrc. He was held out ol tire ~linncsota H<llllC, but Ill' slmul(l be ready for the match a~,rinst Indiana Oil rriday. 
NVA announces final deadline 
for fall events 
Deadlines arc approach in~ for a number of Non-Varsity At h let ics-sponsorccl evenIs. 
Wednesday is the final day to rc~ister for the followin~ NVA programs: 
GRAD TOUCH f'"OOTKAI.I.: 
r:nter as a department, proof of insurance is required and rules, schedules, etc, \\'ill be fur­nished. 

Monday, September 8, 1986 -page 14 
Sports Briefs 
Tile Notre Dame women's tennis team competed lllis weekend in tile Midwest t'all Invitational at ISioomin~ton, lml. One ND doubles team made it to tile finals, while four ND sin~lcs players made it to tile consolation finals. Rain forced tile cancellation of any subsequent matches, except for a 6-1, 6-3 victory by Irish player Miclldlc Dasso. Details will appear in tomorrow's Observer. 
Anyone interested in joinin~ tile Windsurfin~ Club is asked to attend a mcctin~ in Walsh t1all's South Loun~c on Wed­nesday at 7 p.m. t·urthcr infornwtion may be obtained by contactin~ Carter Tlmnws at I(i05. -The Observer 
Tile Notre Dame varsity crew learn practices today at t11e boathouse at either 5: 15 or 6:45 p.m. for t-:RA test. Contact Chris Nyc if unable to dtlcnd. -Tile Observer 
All prospective rncmbcrs of tile Saint Mary's varsity baskct­l~all_ ~earn arc asked to attend a mcctin~ at An~cla Athletic facrlrty today at 6 p.m. -The Observer 


~@m mM1l ~ ,@,'(W'
mm"Wl.Wm W$& __U
·--~· 
I ..... 
OUTDOOR VOLI.t:YISALL 
TOURNAm:NT: 
No lwll restrictions, ND stu­
dents only, rnininHml of nine 
players per roster, no varsity 
players. 
MF.N'S INTt:RHALL SOCct:R: 
Teams by hall, minimum of I H 
players per roster, $25 entry fcc 
required, proof of insurance. 
Information about these <llld a number of other upcomin~ NVA events may be obtained by stop­pin~ by tile NVA offices in tile ACC or by callinn 239-6100. 
Help the March of Dimes 

The Adworks organization invites those students who showed an interest in our company at Student Activities Night to attend a brief organizational meeting. The meeting will be held in room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall at 6:30p.m. on Monday, September 8th. In addition to the following students: 
Elisa Angell  Marc Parker  
Marc Antonetti  Susan Hayes  Gina Perez  
Jim Barrett  Erik Hickey  Kathy Perez  
John Brezny  Sara Honnlgford  Rosemary Pietrzak  
Richard Boydack  Meg Juliano  Heidi Ramroth  
Trlcla Brienza  Jllanne Klavs  Mike Raster  
Lelia Burke  Meriel Labrador  Mary Sagrlpantl  
Jack Coven  James Lackey  Tom Schlegel  
Peter Collett  Missy Lahren  Joe Schwab  
Bryan Conway  Tim Lefscher  Charles Schubert  
Julie Courtney  Joe Llnnen  Michael Sclslaw  
Scott Crenkas  Lisa Macalka  Rob Sedlack  
Peter Demeo  Jim McDonald  Susan Serrato  
John De Sovza  Erin Maloney  Laura Stanton  
AlyclaDodd  Marcus McAllister  Carol Spits  
Sharon Emmlte  Matt McGlynn  Krista Speck  
David Ermine  Bob Mclaughlin  Monica Spoelstra  
Brett Erxleben  Bill McMahon  Peter Stenger  
Lisa Favre  Julie Merkel  John Stoepler  
Mauren Finnigan  Ron Mlletl  Molly Sullivan  
Jennifer Friedhoff  Jim Mohan  MollyToker  
Sue Fries  Tom Monaghan  Joseph Tondreau  
John Furnari  Coria Morgan  Heidi Traupman  
Yulette George  Anne Newett  Lisa Vldergar  
Tom Gillespie  Dennis O'Brien  Pete VIeira  
Matt Guys  Kelly Olinger  KarenVuono  
Margaret Green  Kyle Olinger  David Westendorf  
Beth Hamilton  Julie Palamorl  RosWinner  
Jeff Haskins  Aklra Yamamoto  

HOUSEMATE WANTED 
Young, male, NO staff member seeks NO faculty, staff or grad. student to share nice house 5 minutes from 
campus. Includes washer/dryer. call DAN KEUSAL work 239-7943 home 234-8984 


Others who are interested in joining the Adworks team are welcome to attend. If unable to attend, contact any o·f the following people: 

Kevin Christenson President========================! 

ScoH~orrison ExecutiveV.P. =======================~ I=== Dave ~arcantuono V.P. Finance =====================~ I=== ~ike Thomas V.P. Client Services====================~ I=== Rob Bartolo V.P. Creative Services====================~ I=== ~onica lmbriaco V.P. Special Projects ===================~ 
------------~----­
The Far Side Gary Larson 
Kevin Walsh 
Zeto 

"Mr. Osborne, may I be excused? My brain is full." 
The Daily Crossword
Pre-Law Students 


(Any Student Considering Law School) 
Attend 
The Pre-Law Society General Meeting 

Mon., Sept. 8 at 7:30pm In Eng. Aud. 
Dean Waddick will speak on: Course selection, applying, financial aid, events planned, etc. Sponsored by the Notre Dame· Saint Mary's Pre-law Society Please Bring S4 Membership lee Freshmen Encouraged 
ACROSS 1 Skinny one 6 Water barrier 9 Chatter 
indiscreetly 13 Giggle 14 Glass square 15 Gauzy fabric 16 Water buffalo 17 "The bird ­
the wing" 18 Biblical preposition 19 Collect donations 21 And others: 

Where the need is . . . there we will be. 
As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 
HOLV CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
abbr. 22 Convex 
moldings 23 Vagrants 25 Grass variety 29-Leon 
(Mex. state) 31 Silkworm 32 Margin of 
superiority 34 Boredom 38 Served with 

ice cream 40 Songbirds 42 Soprano Nellie 43 Sediment 45 Regular 46 Command 48 Most modem 50 Read carefully 53 Secondhand 55 Declare 56 Wealthy one 62 Anklebones 63 Recorded 
proceedings 64 Overly sentimental 65 Blissful 
place 66 Judge 67 Chemical 
compound 68 Anatomical network 69 Byrnes or Roush 70 Wager 
DOWN 1 Reprove 


~'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/8/86
All Rights Reserved 
Yesterday's Puzzle ~olved: 
2 Actress 
Williams  
3 Stocking  
mishaps  
4 Mellows  
5 Slum  
6 Gallant  
7 Wild ox  
8 Creme de­ 
9 Scotsman's cap  
10 Slow in music  
11 Square pillars  
12 Stooges  
14 Dock  
20 Desired  
24 Kiln  
25 Enlarge  
26 A Gardner  
27 Tune in  9/8/86  
28 Small drum  44 Exploded  57 Made a fine  
30 Afr. river  47 Ten-year  serve  
33 Erase  period  58 Bewildered  
35 Snow field  49 Sayings  59 Tiny amount  
36 Indians  50-Noster  60 "-and ye  
37 "Say it ­so"  51 Dodge  shall find"  
39 Paddles  52 Rent again  61 Phoenician  
41 Cay  54 Thailand  port  

Classifieds and Campus 
accepted each afternoon Classifiedsdeadline:3pm in The Observer offices campusdeadline:1 pm 3rd floor LaFortune 
·­
.. 
"We stopped working." he said. away a penalty kick at the 55: I 7 Irish that important 2-0 halftime 
"We tried a give-and-go at mid­mark build the lead to 3-0. Three lead with a header off a pass field, and we lost it. Then Min­minutes later forward Bruce from McCourt. nesota passed it up and they Tiger McCourt scored off a scored." rebound of sweeper Pat Szanto's see IRISH, page 14 
"we don't have to have things shot. 

Purdue blocks Irish hope for home-tourney title 
By RICK RIETBROCK Notre Dame plowed through humiliated by these teams so a spike offa Kathy Morin one-set. Game three began ominously Sports Writer Indiana, which eventually many times. It is nice to turn the The Irish went on to win the as Notre Dame miscues put them finished third, in three straight tables on them." game 15-9. in a 2-7 hole. Maureen Shea then 
The story of the Second Annual games to earn a spot in the In the first game, Notre Dame Notre Dame once again keyed an attack to bring the Irish Hoosier Classic had a promising championship. Irish head coach jumped out of the blocks quickly jumped out ahead in game two. even at eight. beginning for the Notre Dame Art Lambert said he was espe­to assume a I 0-4 lead. Kathy 4-0. hut the game was tight from Once again the Irish fell be­volleyball team, but the ending cially pleased for his two seniors, Morin led the charge with a pair there on out. Indiana began to hind. however. and when a Shea was not nearly as kind. Karen Sapp and Molly Merchant. of aces and a dink to the center get its game clicking and the kill was long. Notre Dame was 
The Irish claimed second place who had not enjoyed much pre­of the Indiana defense. Irish found themselves down I I­behind I 1-14. The Irish were not in the four-team event by defeat­vious success against Big Ten The Hoosiers then put on a f 2, but Morin stopped the finished though, as a liennett kill ing Indiana on Friday, before fal­teams. charge to pull to within three. I 1-Hoosier charge with a kill. That att~mpt turned into a heautifully­ling to Purdue in the champion­"This is really special for my two 8, before Notre Dame sopho­set up five straight Irish points, 
see BENNETI, page 12
ship match Saturday. seniors~ he said~ They have been more Zanette Bennett put down and a I 5-I 2 victory. 
Rebuilt offensive line will anchor ND attack 
By MIKE SlYMANSKI provides some experience. A.~sistant Sports F.clitor " I couldnt say honestly which one would start at this time:' said 
This year's edition of the Notre Holtz. Dame football team poses many Freeman is the only three-time questions to its opponents and fetterwinner back anywhere on followers. Undoubtedly one of the fine and has played more the biggest questions is whether career minutes than anyone ex­the inexperienced offensive line cept Heffern. can open the running game and There exists a complete lack protect the passer. of game experience at the tackle 
In recent years. the Irish have position. however. Three veter­boasted size on the line without ans graduated at this slot. includ­regard to the speed needed to ing Mike Perrino, who started expand the running game. This every game in '85, and Tom year, Notre Dame will still have Doerger and Jay Underwood, good size, but should he quicker who split duty at quick tackle. off of the line. Senior Byron Spruell (6-5, 264) 
The starting unit has been has been the big suprise this fall completely rebuilt with only fifth­at right tackle, after playing in year senior Shawn Heffern (6-5. only I 2 games in his career. He 
266) returning at right guard. is coming off a fine spring Heffern played in all I I games season in which he earned the last fall, starting in I 0. Hering Award as the most im­
"Heffern did not have a great proved offensive lineman. spring because of a shoulder in­Tom Rehder (6-7, 243). who jury~ said Head Coach Lou Holtz, started every game in '85 at tight 
k hut he did have a fine fall. " end, has won starting honors at 
Seniors Tom Freeman and left tackle. Tom McHugh, the fatter of which "t:ven though he is very inex­switched back to guard from cen­perienced there and it is toughLife in the trenches got awfully dirty for Notre 
ter this fall, are now battling for to adjust. noted Holtz'.' he has got Dame offensive linemen Shawn Heffern (left) and 
the left guard position. Freeman Chuck Lanza (right) in last year's game at Penn played behind all-America quick see REHDER, page 13 
State. guard Tim Scannell last year and 










