------------~------~----~--------~---~---­
Student survival -page 7 


Administration denies University recognition to homosexual group 
By MARK PANKOWSKI Tyson could not be reached News Editor for comment. GLNDSMC is comprised of 
Student Affairs administrator:; about 50 members, mos~ of have turned down a homosexual whom are Notre Dame students, group's set of proposals seeking according to one of the group's access to University facilities and members. Faculty, staff, alumni. media. clergy members and citizens of 
Administrators also .declined the community make up the rest the request to establish an open­of the group. ended series of meetings with the The group had sought to use campus-based group, Gays and the facilities of the Center for So­Lesbians at Notre Dame-Saint cial Concerns, to sponsor events Mary's College. in University-owned facilities 
_ The decision came in a July 7 and to' advertise in University­letter from Vice President for owned and oper~ted media. Student Affairs Father David GLDN!SMC also had sought to 
Tyson to three GLNDSMC mem­maintain an address and-hr 
bers. phone number in the student 
The group's six proposals, directory and to set up a series submitted in April, in effect of meetings with administrators. were a request for official Uni­No avenue of appeal is open versity recognition, according to to the group, according to a Tyson's letter. By declining the GLNDSMC co-chair."We believe group's requests, administrators it (the decision) amounts to denied the group formal recogni­(Univ,ersity President Father tion. Theodore) Hesburgh says no. 
"The University recognizes its " I had hoped that there would 
role in meeting the pastoral have been a change in adminis­
needs of all studenls, including trarioft' policy, the ·co-chair con­
homosexual students," Tyson's ' tinued. But there wasn't. And it • 
letter stated." On the other hand, doesn't seem like there's going to 
it is our judgement that forma~ be a change," he added. 
recogmuon of GLNDSMf; · Repeated attempts to reach 
carries with it an implicit sanc­Hesburgh were unsuccessful. 
tion for a homosexual lifestyle In his letter, Tyson said he 
which is not in keeping with the discussed the proposals with his 
values of the University or the staff and other administrators 
teachings of the Church. • before a decision was reached. 
"Moreover, it is our opinion Tyson did not identify these 
that formal recognition of any or­people in his letter. 
ganization based on sexual pref­
erence is inappropriate." see GAYS, page 3 

Business dean to resign 
Sp«lalto The Observer ment of a new dean is scheduled 
for the middle of the spring se­

Frank K. Reilly, dean of the mester. College of Business Administra­Reilly said he considers the tion for the past 4 112 years and doubling of the size of the MBA the holder of the Bernard J. program and the establishment Hank Chair, announced he will of two research centers his big­step down as dean at the end of gest accomplishments as dean. the academic year. Under Reilly'; administration, 
Reilly, who will return to full the graduate program has in­time teaching and research, said creased from approximately 150 he decided to make this move in to 315 students and is still his career because he felt that if growing larger. The Center· of he stayed in administration too Research and Business and the long, it would be difficult-to Center. for Research and Banking return to teaching and research. have been established to further 
After a leave ofabsence during expand research facilities in the 
the 1987-1988 academic year, business field: 
Reilly will return as a criair pro­In a~etter to the faculty and 
fessor to teach undergraduate stiw-f, Reilly said that holding his 
and graduate level courses. A position as Dean of the College 
specialist in finance, particularly of Business Administration has 
investment banking and security ~een an exciting and satisfying 
analysis, he will teach in the De­·experience. 
partment of Finance and Busi­He said the College has made, 
ness at Notre Dame. enQrmous strides and is poised 
A search committee, chaired for even greater growth and de­
by the Provost, will be elected velopment because of the fantas­
by the College Council to choose tic efforts of the faculty and staff 
a new dean. Reilly said the search and with the support and 
committee will be selected in cooperation · of the University 
September, and the announce-· AdminstrliQon. 

Associated Press 
One month before eight states imd the District of Columbia must adopt a drinking age of 21 or lose some federal highway funds, only the nation's capital appears ready to meet the U.S. Department of Transportation deadline. 
In some of the affected states, officials have urged resistance to the federal mandate. 
"We should not allow ourselves to be blacknJ_ailed by the federal govetn~t,""'says Louisiana State Rep. Qlaentin Dastugue. At stake is $*.1 millio(\.in highway support for Ohio, Colorado, Idaho, Louisiana, Montana, South Dakota, Wyoming, Ten­nessee and the District ofColum­bia. 
The Transportation Depart­ment has said it will withhold 5 percent of the highway funds designated for jurisdictions that do not ban liquor sales to every­one under 21. 
Ohio would lose the most· at approximately $20 million~. Louisiana, $15 million; Colorado, $9.1 million; Tennessee, $9 mil­lion; Montana, $5.6 millidh; Wyoming, $4.5 million; Idaho, $4.3 million; South Dakota, $4 million; the District of Colum­bia, $2.6 million. 
Those figures would increase the next fiscal year when the penaJty doubles to 10 percent. 
Half of the eight affected states have no plans to change their drinking law. Legislators in the other four states are to con­sider the issue next year, and state officials say they have as­surances the funds will be reinstated once the drinking laws are changed. Some of the states are challenging the law in court. 
The Loutstana Legislature, with the spirit;ofMardi Gras and Bourbon Street prevailing, turned back in June an attempt to increase"the legal drinking age frop1 18 to 21. 
• 
Aint there no .romance left in the world? •asked LouiSiaJUl State Sen. Armand Brinkhau5.•What ever hap~ to a i\11 of wine and thou? • 

In Wyoming, legislators have said they plan to file a bill next session to raise the drinking age from 19 to 21, but Gov. Ed Hersch~er says he doesn't care ~~the government's threat. 

• 
Nineteen-year-olds have all the rights, responsibilities and duties of an adult, and to me t~t means they ought to have the opportunity of doing what they wish at that qe~Herschler said. 


Ohio Gov. Richard Celeste is not. exactly in love with what the feds are doing but does not plan 
see DRINKING, page 5 
69 killed as jetliner, plane collide over California 
Associated Press 
CERRITOS, Calif. An 
Aeromexico jetliner and a light 
plane collided in dear skies yes­
terday, killing all 67 people on 
the two planes and at least two 
people on the ground as flaming 
wreckage fell on a suburban 
neighborhood, authorities said. 
"We have at this time con­
firmed two to three victims in a 
house;• said Los Angeles County 
Fire Department spokesman Rob 
Smith. "'It was clear they were 
indeed residents of the home.-" 
In addition, he said, there was 
a possibility that a family ofseven 
had also perished in another 
home, bur it was unconfirmed. 
Four people on the ground, 
either re$idents or firefighters, 
suffered minpr injuries after the 
wreckage fell about noon and 
were being treated at a local 
hospital, where officials said they 
had been told to expect more in­
jured. 
The twin-engine McDonne[ 
Douglas DC-9, bound for Los 
Angeles from Mexico City as 
Flight 498, was carrying 64 
people and was making its final 
approach to J.Ds Angeles Inter­
national Airport when it collided 
with the single-engine Piper Ar­
cher with three people on board, 
said Los Ang~les County Sheriffs 
Sgt. Mark Aguirr~. 
Earlier, 'au~orities had said 
there were 5~ people on the jet­
liner alad -two aboard the small 
plane, but Aeromexico spokes­
man Guy Arriola said later there 
were 58 passengers and six crew­
members aboard the jet and lo~al 
officials said three people were 
on the small plane. 
" It looked like a model plane 
going .dQwn. Then there was a 
big fireb~ll and a big_ball of black 
smoke billowing up:'said witness 
Keith Downey, 3(, of Norwalk. 
• Aeromexico had had notified ~~. half the passengers' rela­'tive's by late yesterday afternoon:· said Rene Roberts, • .an Aeromexico agent at the Los An­geles airport. A passenger list will not be supplied until all the families had been contacted, she said. 
The DC-9 collided in fligl)t 
with a small twin-engine 
aircraft, said Ira Furmall\of the 
National Transportation Safety 
Board in Washington, D.C. 
The Califorma Highway Patrol 
said the aircraft collided at 11:56 
_a-:m. and fell to the ground 30 
miles southeast ofdowntown Los 
Angeles. ­
A motorist who watched the 
airliner plummet to the ground 
said the plane was upside down 
when it hit. 
~It · was just going straight d_own, no power ·at all:' h!_ said. ·i can see a smoke piume."' 

In Brief 
An auto mechanic was charged with maiming an animal after he bit off part of a dog's ear to win a $100 bet, police said Saturday .. Warren Curtiss, 23, of Weymouth, MASS., was arrested Friday.; Stephan Ricketts, who works with Curtiss at Thomas Au~~~ Shop, said shop owner John Thomas offered CUrtiss a $100 to bite off the ear of Fritz, a German shepherd guard dog owned by Thomas, said Sgt. Glenn Shaw. "It wa,s disgusting," sil:id Shaw. "This man went up to the dog, caught htm and did it and then he spit the thing out. Afterward, the dog lay whimpering."-The, Observer. 
Of Interest 
Students must move their cars out of the parking lot which surrounds Notre Dame Stadium, said Director of Security ~Rex Rakow. Ifstudents do not comply, they will be ticketed and their cars will be towed. -The Observer 
Students need to register their cars S<K>n because Notre Dame Security will enforce its policy shortly, said Rex Rakow, director of security. -The Observ_er 
All Seniors who plan on taking on-campuis interviews this year should register at Career and Placement Services by tomorrow. ­The Observer 
Student Senator John Gardiner has announced he will start a voter registration drive at Notre Dame. In order to facilitate registra­tion, Gardiner said he will sponsor a botth during Student Ac­tivities Night tomorrow night. "If students are. not registered to vote . . in their home district, then they should register to vote here," said Gardiner, senator from District 2. -The Observer. 
A contest to name the new Notre Dame computer-based catalog has been announced by Director of University Libraries Robert Miller. Scheduled to become operational in the spring of.l987, the catalog will intially supplement and eventually replace the manual card catalogs in the University libraries. The winner will be awarded a $50 prixe and three runners-vp w!~t. receive Domino's Pizza certificates. The entor's name must be limited to five characters and may or may nut he an,"acromym. Representing the student body on the panel of judges will tx;-Stu­dent Body President Mike Switek. -The Observer. 
The world-record Twister-game, which was schedule~ b~· Theodore's and other organizations for Friday, September 5, ls postponed until next semester. -The Observer. 
The Pre-Law Society will be holding a mandatory meeting for all seniors interested in applying for law school tonighr at 7:30 in the Library Auditorium, Both Dean Link and Dean Waddick will speak and answer questions. For more information, call Frank at 232-5478 or Tom at 283-3495.-The Observer 
Weather 
Enjoy your holiday in classes today as it will be mostly sunny and mild Labor Day with the high around 80. Mostly clear and cool tonight with the low around 
60. Partly sunny tomorrow with the high around 80. 


The Observer 
Design Editor . ..... Chris Bowler Accent Copy Editor .. Lisa Young Layout Staff. ..... Alice and Ann Accent Layout . .. Melissa Warnke Typesetter ......... Sean Sexton ND Day Editor . .. Laurine Magna News Editor .... Ann Kaltenbach Supplement Layout . . Mel Warnke Copy Editor . ... Mark Pankowski Photographer . .... James Carroll Sports Copy Editor . . Marty Burns 
Thanks, Melissa, you're doing a great job! 
1be Obeaftr (USPS ~99 2-4000) is publishtd Monday through Friday txctpt during 
txam and vacation ptriods.lbc Obacrvcr is publisbtd by tht studtnts oftht llnivtrsity of Nour Oamr and Saint Mary's Collrgc:. 
1bc Obecncr is a mtmbtr of lbc AMoclalcd Press. All rtproduction rights arc: rrvrvcd. 

...................
i :
~4tNt\u~ork~imts 
+ 
All the news that's :

+ 
fit to print •


•

+ Call Rick R~uter at 283-4303 : 
****************************** 
SAINTMARY'S COLLEGE 
A  D  
COTH 375 Rehearsal and Performance a one act play by Anhur Kopit  Chamber Music directed by Roberta N. Rude  
September 1 & 2 7:30-10:30 pm Little Theatre -Saint Mary's College  For scripts and additional information call the CoTh office 284-4640  

COTH 243 Dance Repertory /Performance Workshop Prof. Dieckgrafe 
September 1 & 2 7:00-9:00 pm For more information call the dane Regina Hall Dance Studio office 284-4643 -107 Moreau Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College 
****************************** 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY 
Meetingfor all Seniors who are Interested in law school 
TONIGHT 
7:30 p.m. 
Memorial Library Auditorium 
IMPORTANTLSAT INFORMATION 
AVAILABLE 
Att~dance mandatoryfor Seniors who plan to attend law school 


The Observer Monday, September 1, 1986 -page 3 
;~) ~· 
What-a-melon 
Farmer Paul Breneman of Lancaster, Penn. shows off his 130-pound watermelon with his grandchildren Jason and Lori. 
~ Burning the midnight ll::-~::.8--. oil may be necessary. 
I .-n tit! •< ~ • 
' .,.. '""-.. 
Burning the 2:00 or 3:00 or 4:00AM oil is absurd. 

Especially when an HP calculator can get the answers you want-in time to get a good night's sleep. 
For instance, our HP-lSC Professional Scientific Calculator has more built-in advanced math and statistical power than any other calculator. Our HP-41 Advanced Scientific Calculators have even more potential. 
I • ¥' • ~~ ~ .. ~ 
PG12602 
Soviet emigre: KGB tried to frarn·e same U.S. journalist two··years.·ago­
•NEW YORK The Soviet KGB tried two years ago to frame the same U.S. journalist its agents arrested during the weekend on espionage· charges, according to a SO\<iet emigre who says his father refused to help in the plot. 
Alexander Goldfarb, a Colum­bia University professor, said yesterday that his father, David, was asked by the intelligence and security agency in April 1984 to ask U.S. News and World Report correspondent Nicholas Daniloff to smuggle a package of written material out ofthe Soviet Union. 
When the elder Goldfarb, a retired professor of genetic engi­neering, refused, his visa to leave the Soviet U~ion was canceled, according to his son, who came to this country II years ago. 
Daniloffs wife, Ruth, told reporters and U.S. authorities that her husband was detained Saturday by the KGB, after an 
That's because there are better than 2500 software packages available for them-more than for any other calculator. 
There's even a special plug-in software package (we call it the Advantage Module) that's designed to handle the specific problems an engineering student has to solve in his, or her, course work. 
No wonder professionals in engineering and the physical sciences widely regard HP calculators as the best you can get. So check one out. Then, when your mother calls to ask ifyou're getting enough sleep, you won't have to lie. By the way, if you want more information, just give us a call at 800-FOR-HPPC. Ask for Dept.658C. Fh:. HEWLETT 
11.:~ PACKARD 
acquaintance handed him a closed packet that later was found to contain maps marked top secret. 
She called the incident a setup and said Daniloff denied any in­volvement in espionage. 
_In a telephone interview yes­terday, Goldfarb said when he arrived in Moscow in 1981, he an.d the elder Goldfarb became .friends, meeting occasionally for dinner. The younger Goldfarb, an assistant professor of microbiology, said he had rhe~. the journalist before Daniloff went to Moscow and had asked 
Gays 
con,..from page 1 
However, before the group submitted its proposals, several GLNDSMC members met with Tyson, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Sister Jean Lenz, then Assistant Vice Presi­dent for Student Services Father Francis Cafarelli and Associate him to say hello to his father. 
He said that in 1984, a few days before his father was to pick up his visa to leave the Soviet Union, he·was called in by the KGB and shown photographs of Daniloff coming and going from the Goldfarb apartment. 
The KGB wanted him to ask Daniloff to help him get infor­mation out of the country, the younger Goldfarb said. The KGB said it would provide his father with a package he was to ·pass along to Daniloff as his own, he said. 
Vice President for Residence Life John Goldrick. 
In a letter to Tyson, the co­chair questioned bow official recognition could sanction a homosexual lifestyle. 
"As we stressed in our meeting with you, there is a difference between homosexual orientation and homosexual activity. The fact that a person is homosexual does not necessarily mean that he or she engages in homosexual activity." 
According to Tyson's letter, the needs of homosexual stu­dents could best be met through the Office of University Ministry and the University Counseling Center. 
"Not only should a homosexual student be afforded the same rights as any other student, he or she should be afforded, to th~ extent possible, those services of the University that may most ap­propriately meet the unique needs of that student,"the letter stated. 
··It is our conviction that the Office of University Ministry and the University Counseling Center are the best resources to be of assistance to homosexual stu­dents." 
The co-chair said such ser­vices are inadequate, however. "University Counseling has been very good with us. But they're only a limited resource. 
"University Ministry won't do anything for us,"he added.:"fhey haven't done anything for us in the past nor will they. " 
Director of University Mini­stry Father Andre Leveille could not be reached for comment. 
GLNDSMC members will try to work with University Ministry and Uni~ersity Counseling until they can convince administrators to meet with them again, the co­chair said. 
"By no means are we going to end"QUr struggle at Notre Dame;; he said.'This (the decision) only makes our fight a little strong~r." 
Letter Service, Inc. 
No time to write home'? 
Consumer Complaint Letter? 
Dictate your letter or we'll create for youl · 24 hour service · letter will be deli eve red to you · call us at 674-9574 


The amazing Casio FX-4000P pro-alpha-numeric display scrolls to 79 grammable scientific calculator. In characters and its instant formula power, it's compa-.------CAS-,0---H-P--r,--replay feature lets 
rable to the most  Fx4oooP  1sc  60  you review, edit and  
highly tOUted CaiCU- Funcloons  160  115  124  replay your formula  
lators on the market today.  D•splayMemory Formula Replay  12 Scrolls 1079 550 Slep Yes  7 • 2 448 Slep No  10 • 2 84 S1ep No  at the touch of a button. It even has  
It offers you  Compuler Malh  Yes  No  Some  an answer key that  

160 total functions, including 83 scien-stores your last computed value. tific functions. such as hexadecimal/ And to make things still easier, decimal/binary/octal conversions. the FX-4000P has a "perfect entry" standard deviation and regression system, which allows you to enter and divisions. This allows 10 different pro­grams to be stored at once. 
And it includes up to 94 data memories, which are invaluable for statistical analysis. 
Finding all this power at your fingertips is remarkable enough, let alone at half the price of some com­petitors. If you can put your finger on a scientific calculator that gives you more power at any price, by all means buy it. 
analysis. display a formula exactly as written. Making it easier to deal with Plus, it has a non-volatile 550 
CASID 
long computations, its 12 character step program memory with 10 program Where miracles never cease 
CaSio. Inc. Consumer Products DIVISIOn 15 Gardner Road. Fa1rf1eld. NJ 07006 New Jersey (201) 882·1493. Los Angeles (213) 803·3411 
~~----------~-------~--------.-----------------------~---.----------------~~------~--~~--------------------------­
The Observer 

Two bullfighters's assistants remove a giant loaf of outside Madrid Friday before a bullfight that is part bread from the bullring at San Sebastian de los Reyes of the village's annual fiesta. 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Advantages 
• THE NEWSLETTER FOR CAREER-MINDED STUDENTS • 
• MONEY 
• RECOGNITION 

• SELF-ESTEEM 
ARE YOU BEGINNING TO THINK ABOUT YOUR FUTURE? 
ADVANTAGES is-a newsletter expressly for students who want to succeed in the job market. 
ADVANTAGES gives you the benefit of quality career skill advice from people who are already successful in their fields. Practical, hard­hittiny advice that comes from experience on topics like Job Hunting, 
Monday, September 1, 1986 -page S 
Arrest of naked girls sparks rampage 
Associated Press 
HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. At least 100 rampaging teen-agers set fire to five police vehicles and a lifeguard jeep in a beach riot yesterday sparked by the arrest of six naked girls, authorities said. 
Police had the riot under control three hours after it began at 2:10 p.m. near the annual Op Pro Surfing Cham­pionships, said police Sgt. Ron Jenkins. A riot command post remained in operation 
Drinking 
continuedfrom page 1 
to push for new legislation to 
raise the drinking age from 19 
to 21, said press secretary Brian 
Usher. In the District of Columbia, 
'Mayor Marion Barry Jr. says he will propose legislation to raise the drinking age to 21 when the City Council returns from sum­mer recess this month.Its not just the highway rev­
enue loss. Its being good neigh­
bors," said Julius Hobson Jr., of last night. 
It was not cleat how· many people were arrested, Jenkins said. l"wo officers,suffered minor injuries, be said. 
The surfing tournament at Huntington Beach Pier 35 miles southeast ofLos Angeles drew an estimated 100,000 people yHt'erday. The riot began behind bleachers set up for the event when police ar­rested the six girls, said tourn­
ament  spokesman  Carol  
Kaiahua.  
the  district's  Office  of  Inter­ 

governmental Relations, noting that Maryland and Virginia on either side of the.teity have raised their drinking ages to 21. 
South Dakota allows 19-year­olds to drink low-alcohol beer, but bans all o_tl}er alcoholic bev­erage sales to people uM!er 21. The state's two gubernatorial candid'ates, Democrat--l.ars Her­seth and Republi_can George Mickelson, predict a change in the law, saying the state cannot afford to lose the highway money. 


WELCOME BACK 
Eckler-
Lahey 
LUMBER 140h S.'uth h;mldm .11 Br,MJ\\;t\ S.1uth lknJ.InJtana 4hhl' 
Networking, Resumes, Interviewing, Reputation, and many more. 
ADVANTAGES covers 2 subjects every 3 weeks from October through May for a total of 20 of the most important topics you need for your future success. With each one you gain a clear understanding of another career skill, you get examples of how to do it right, what to watch out for, and an action checklist to get you started. 
If you want to succeed, start by taking advantage now of the advice of men and women who have already done it. Of all the learning you do this year, this might benefit your future the most. 
· · · ·.......................................!Detach Coupon) .......................................... 
Get 40% savings with this special risk-free Back to School offer! 
While the normal subscription price for ADVANTAGES is $49.95, send in your 
check or money order payable to ADVANTAGES postmarked no late,· than Sept. U 
1986 and pay only $29.95 for all 20 topics. Not only a small investment in your 
future. but a risk-free one: if you e-ver wish to cancel your subscription, just let us 
know and we'll promptly refund your money on all unmailed issues. 
0 YES! I want to start using ADVANTAGES. Enclosed is my payment for [ l $29.95 [ l $49.95 
•Plf'ase Pnnt Clear/yo 
Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip 
Class rCheck OneJ: 0 Fresh 0 Soph 0 Jr. 0 Sr. 0 Grad. Mail to: ADVANTAGES I P.O.BOX 17076 I HAUPPAUGE, NY 11788 oPiease allow 4·6 weeks lor delivery of your forst •ssueL 
6450A 
Free Delivery to Campus and surrounding areas 
289-2478 
The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the following positions: 
Senior Staff Reporter Copy Editor Day Editor Saint Mary•s Assistant Editor 
Those interested may come up to the ObseNer' s offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center or call Mark Pankowski. Tripp Baltz or Margie Kerstein at 239-5303. 
\7ie~~_O_i_D_t____________Monda~y,sep~tembe-rl,l9-s6--p~e6 
Blacks and Whites both suffering in South Africa 
The current attitude of the American media and people towards South Africa of moral support to the black population and outrage at the South African govern­ment's policy of racial segregation has brought calls for American action ranging from a slap on the wrist of the South Afric..·an government to a policy intent on destabilization of the South African eco­nomy. 
Robert Kuehn under a different light 
The concept of pressuring the South African government is admirable; however a policy toward massive up­heaval of the South African economy will serve to defeat their ultimate purpose, improvement in the South African quality of life. 
Life for South Africa's blacks has been brought into our homes as pictures of overcrowded homes, accounts of inferior education systems and stories of unkempt black communities have made evening news programs and national news magazines and mobilized social activists across America to the sides of Black South Africans in their struggle against the gov­ernment. 
Yet deceptively little is said about the white middle class who arc often quite unaware of the living conditions in black townships. Much like the German people who were unaware of Hitler's crimes against humanity or even Americans' own lack of a true understanding of life in poverty, white South Africans arc often uninformed. Ycars of geographical, poli­tical and social tradition in addition to government efforts to control the flow of news and opinion and punishment ro white dissidents has effectively scaled the black situation from the sights ofthe most liberal of even South African whites. 
However, government activity has not kept white faith from slipping. Years of comp1accncy have been replaced by a sense of siKial and economic inertia and a sense of helplessness. 
In attempt~ to reassure the white com­munity of his government's ahilit) to maintain control and pleas for unity and loyalty South African President P. W. Borha has only added to the uneasiness and the sense that something is dreadfully wrong. 
The South African standard of living has been declining recently for the white population. Unemployment is worsen­ing, economic productivity slowing, and inflation at levels nearing 20 percent. The feeling that Somh Africa holds no futurc for its coming generations has motivated many doctors, engineers, tcachc..·rs and 
P.O. Box Q 
Checkmarking classes better than new policy 
Dear Editor: 
May I impose upon The Observer to publish an apology to some 90 students inconvenienced, in part, by me? The stu­dents i'n question enrolled for one of my lecture courses (History 354, American Warfare II) at preregistration last spring, only to find themselves excised from the class list in August. 
Twenty years' experience in the teach­ing racket taught me that numerous fac­tors contribute to the quality of a course. Class size, facilities, and money -to pay for handouts, for example -all matter. It has been my practice to limit several of my lecture courses to HO students, the most I can fairly accommodate without impairing course quality. And, because of competing teaching obligations, in­cluding the need to offer several courses for which the demand is consistently high, I cannot ordinarily offer duplicate sections of popular courses. 
In the past, I chcckmarkcd those courses apt to be oversubscribed. Check­marking was not an ideal mechanism, but at least students knew whether they were regtstered or not before preregtstra­
tion ended. 

This past spring, an abrupt change in 
administrative policy prcventd the His­
tory Department from checkmarking any 
courses. Students were permitted to 
preregister for whatever courses they 
wished. But History, and other depart­
ments, were then invited to cut enroll­
ments where necessary, using an ill­
defined mechanism called the Registrar's 
priority system to do so. In the case of 
History, 354, the new system required 
several exchanges between the History 
Department and the Registrar's Office to 
finalize a class list. The list of enrollees 
was finally settled, more or less, on July 
24th. 

Some 173 students had preregistered for History 354 in the spring. To make the course teachable, l had to limit en­rollments to 80, more or less. The deci­sion to drop 90 or so students was mine. I regret both the decision and the incon­venience suffcrred by the students who were dropped. But I believe the decision was necessitated by the requirement to preserve the integrity and quality of the course. Blabbing lectun•s to a crowd is not teaching. 
I can express regrets only to those stu­dents preregistered for, but excluded 
from, History j'i4. But surely my ap.Jlogy 
speaks for other faculty members who 
find themselves trapped in similar dilem­
mas, at once trying to teach respectable 
courses hut no longer able to control the 
basic factor for defining course quality, 
preregistration enrollments. 
I think I can, however, ask students 
to recognize that the new policy emanates 
from the Dome, not from the depart­
ments. The departments' only benefit has 
been an escalation of of administrativu 
confusion and a multiplic..·ation of admin­.istrative complications, complications which most departments arc not staffed to resolve efficiently. Complaints regard­ing History y;.} should be din:'l'tcd either to me or to the Registrar, not to the poor harried dcrks and secretaries who must waste hundreds of hours making highly­paid intclcctuals' systems work. 
l c..·annot comment on the reasons for the new preregistration policy. Other than an advisory from the dean's com­mittee recommending a reduction in the number of checkmarked courses -a com­mendable objective, in itself-no rationale for the policy has been shared with the departments or the fa,:ulty. We do not know why recommendations to check­mark certain courses were disaHowed. We know only that across-the-board open 
Garry Trudeau 

oth;;or professionals [() leave their 
homeland. 
Despite increasing rumblings on the 

part of the white population the Botha 
government can avoid an election until 
19H9, leaving dissatisfied white voters 
with no more influence than non-voting 
blacks and no greater chance of affecting 
change. 
Many sec the South· African govern­

ment oppressing only the Black popula­tion, vet the white middle class is shaken and ,;,sing confidence in the future of their government and country. These ac­tivists who campaign for racial rclimn must remember that the South African .govcrnmc..·nt has placed all people, black and white, in a state of social and eco­nomic .~tagnation and has k·ft no rca.~on to look forward to what tomorrow may 
bring. 
Robert Kuehn is a sophomore aeronautical engineering student and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
preregistration forced us to choose be­tween c..·utting students from preregistration lists or teaching unteach­able courses. 
Robert Kerby History Deptu11'M111 

Former Domers prove value ofan ND degree 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations to two Notre Dame graduates who made the big time this summer, Matthew Storin and Danid Manion. 
Matthew Storin hec..·amc editor of the Chicago Sun-Times, a truly prestigious editor for a mlKh maligned newspaper. 
Daniel Manion became a judge in the Sc..·vcnth Circuit Court of Appeals, a much maligned jurist for a truly prestigious court. 
The mystic..·al value of a Notre Dame degree is not blather. As Storin and Manion prove, Domers succeed whether they arc top flight or mediocre. 
Keith Picher Managing Editor Chicago Lawyer 

1... 15 5({)UTJNGL«AT/@ 
/IRE YOU NOT RCALI...Y. ACC£95/Bl& IAJHATf; THIS BYAIR. H&R&? 51JRV!3YfOR, 
\ ANYWAY?_,...-: 
Quote of the Day 
"Work and thou canst not escape the reward. No matter how often defeated, you are born to victory. The reward of a thing well done is to have done 
it." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 
(1803 -1882) 

General Board 
The___Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor. . . . ........... Kevin Becker Controller. . . . . .... Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor....... . .... Scott Bearby Production Manager. . . .. Chns Bowler Sports Editor. Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager. . . .... James Carroll The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor. . . ........... Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . . . . .. Anne M.Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the E:aint Mary's Edt tor. . . . Margie Kersten 
Systems Manager. . . . . . . . . . . Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of 
News Editor. ................ Mark Pankowski the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3,1966 

Accent 
Surviving at ND/SMC: a few suggestion~~,.,:.:NotteDamo 
The Observer 
Questions should be 
directed to Mary Jacoby at the 
Ottterver office (239-5313).
Theindependentstudentnewspaper Resumes and personal
serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is statements are due Thursday, 
accepting applications for the following Sept. 4. 
positions: 
• 
Features Copy Editor 

• 
Features Senior Staff Reporters 


TheObHrver 
3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 48558 
that he struck down the Mic­higan backfield with AIDS. 
2. 
God made Notre Dame, but he didn't make it 5 and 6. 

3. 
Losing seasons are like eter­nal damnation -they get old after awhile. 

4. 
Bowl-bound or Akron­bound. 

5. 
Holtz the pickle, Holtz the lettuce, ungOdly schedules don't upset us. 


Also included m the football section of your survival kit will be a Tylenol capsule. This is not to be used for relief from. the hangovers you will surely have but for commlttmg suicide should we lose on national tele­vision. And finally, you will be issued an empty keg. They're great to stand around with in the parking lot. You can act as if you're having a blast like back in the good old days when men were domers and domers were completely out-of-hand every weekend. 
The second part of your new and improved Student Survival Kit invloves dating. Sadly, not too much can be done for you if you're in bad shape in this de­partment. I mean, what can you do? Bathing helps. However, pick up lines often work. The following pick up lines are guaranteed to work and, of course, will be included with the Survival Kit. 
What you pick up with these is your fault. Results have ranged from a bad cold to relatives to future marriage partners. Mest work with both sexes. 
l. The phone is ringing in my room. Want to help me answer it? 
2. 
Your slip isn't showing. What's wrong? 

3. 
That's it! I know you from a past life! 

4. 
Did you read those stupid pick up lines in the Observer today? Ha. What a joke. Who does that moron think he is? 


5. Do you like apples? 
6. 
How was your summer? (OK, that one doesn't work.) 

7. 
I don't believe in all that women's lib stuff... 

8. 
I don't believe in all that macho stuff... 

9. 
Do you always guzzle beer like a goddess? 


Last, and probably least, your Notre Dame Student Survival Kit will indude...pizza coupons. You never know when you might run out of Old Spice. 
Monday, September 1, 1986 -page 7 
'Monkeys' provides quiet look at families 
MARY JACOBY 
ji:tttlll't'.\ alitol' 
In February 1966 Rosie Vincent and her six children decide to 
play a trick on their father and her husband, who has left the house 
for a few minutes on an inexplicably urgent errand downtown. 
They decide to hide. 
Aloof and abstracted, Gus Vincent quite frequently runs spon­taneous errands downtown, returning with a token purchase. His six children ~on't understand why they can't go with him. 
Their mother can't explain to them that their father takes off on 
these errands to get away from his family and his responsibili;ies ­
a reminder that his natural wild spirit has been trapped and domest­
icated by marriage, family and the expectations of the wealthy Mas­
sachusscts society to which he belongs. Caught halfway between 
running completely away and becoming a full-fledged, attentive 
father, Gus Vincent can do neither, his will to act decisively confused. 
Suppressing their giggles, the entire clan tr<x>ps upstairs for the 
wholly novel experience of crouching in the dark closet with Mom. 
They wait. 
Gus Vincent enters the house, shuttting the kitchen door behind 
him. He calls out, asking if anyone is home. The children bite their 
lips to remain quiet and guard their secret. What must Daddy be 
thinking? Obviously he's wondering where his family is. His steps 
reverberate throughout the house. 
The suspense grows tight for Rpsic Vincent and her children in 
the closet. Any moment now their father would. be c<)ming up the 
stairs in search of them. 

Books 

Monkeys by Susan Minot 
But something strange happens. The sound of his footsteps cease. Silence stills the Vincent children's heartbeats for a moment until it is broken by the snap of a TV knob and. the sound of a football game suddenly roaring in the living room downstairs. 
Their father docs not come looking for them. 
In her first novel, Susan Minot manages to evoke the subtleties of deteriorating family life in an exceptionally quiet manner. Most of the book's events arc not dramatic; through ordinary events she achieves epiphanies which illustrate the despair of Gus Vincent, who is ineffectual and unsatisfied in a life that has somehow crept up and smothered him, the tenacity with which Rosie Vincent tries to hold the family together, and the bewilderment of the children who struggle to understand their roles and eventually become hard­ened to their situation. 
One of the book's slight flaws, however, is that sometimes the epiphanies arc so quiet that the reader may not be·quite sure exactly what was revealed to him. 
Monkeys -which might more accurately be described as a col­lection of interrelated short stories -employs a generally objective commentator's style. The simple narrative parallels the disinterested attitude the seven Vincent children learn to affect from their parents in order to smooth over the painful emotion teaming underneath the surface of their lives. 
The Vincents live in a sterotypically New England atmosphere of forced sophistication in which nothing is directly stated, and serious family problems are rarely approached in anything but oblique man­ners. Thus the children arc left to observe their surroundings and try to figure out on their own what is really happening, as opposed to what appears to be happening. 
The beauty of Monkeys is that is so lovingly parallels real life, thus bringing to light the magic in ordinary t~~Cperience which nor­mally remains ineffable. Most people don't lead especially dramatic lives. Within the lifespan of the average person there are usually many minor delights and disappointments punctuated by a few prodigious exclamation marks. 
.Accordingly, there is only one definably dramatic moment in the book, a moment which does not even happen on stage. Rosie Vin­cent's death is a turning point for the family which has all the mbre impact for the little gestures painted by Minot that have endeared the character to the reader's heart. 
Through Rosie's determination to remain cheerful and provide an environment of continuity in her children's lives despite the inablity of her husband to fulfill his role, we feel the gaping bole her death leaves in the family. This hole is a spiritual void which Monkeys illuminates but does not even begin ro describe how to fill. 
Kris Murphy 
Altered 
Did you get your Notre Dame Student Survival Kit? I bet you did. It's this little green envelope with a really weak drawing of a leprechau~ on the outside. It was shoved under your door and in­side you found some pizza coupons and a letter from J C Penney. I got real excited when I got mine. So excited in fact that I threw out my Right Guard and replaced it with the Notre Dame Student Survival Kit. That's right boys and girls, the pizza coupons went under my left arm and the letter from J C Penney went under my right arm. I stayed dry and secure all day. 
you were shopping atJ C Penney? 
But don't get me wrong. I de see a pressing need for a Survival Kit here at this really keen insti­tution ofhigher learning. There's a lot to survive here besides the food, and I think an entire com­mittee should be assigned to the problem. This suggestion will probably be ignored by the ad­ministration, thou·gh, so I am prepared to offer a few tips to the lucky son-of-a-gun who eventually takes my idea and runs with it. 
The first thing you'll have to survive in any given year at Notre Dame is football season. Allow me to explain to freshman and 


What? Wait a minute. You Sa}' you're getting the impression that the Notre Dame Student Survival Kit is worthless? You think I'm saying that there's no need for a Notre Dame Student Survival Kit? Well then Domers and SMCs you'd all be wrong. Dead wrong, as Clint Eastwood would say. There must be a mil­lion uses for that little green en­velope. You could line a kitty box with it. You could blow your nose in it. Why, you could even take notes (God forbid) on it! But as for helping you survive here at ND, you can forget it. What are you going to do on a lonely weekend without a friendly member of the opposite sex? Cuddle with your pizza coupons? And what will you do when your parents see your midterm grades and th~eaten you with electric shock? Are you going to tell them 
.. ..
.. 
. .. 
other uninformed types. If we win, we'll all get real obnoxious because it'll be revenge for the last five years. Everyone on campus will get blitzed. If we lose, we'll all get real angry and bitter. Students, faculty and alumni will mope all fall and into the winter. Everyone on campus will get blitzed. Starting to see a pattern? That's right, win or lose everyone gets blitzed. So how can you survive mass drunkenness, oops, I mean foot­ball games? The Notre Dame Student Survival Kit will be there to help. 
First ofall, you'll have buttons and bumperstickers. Your par­ents probably have bookstore bumperstickers: God made Notre DameNo.lThat's neat, but it's puse. All-new bu_mperstick­ers and buttons will be included in your survival kit: 



r---------------------~--------------------------~~------------------------------------.------­
t 
t 
~ 
I 
~ 
I I I I l I I I I I I I 
I 
~ ~ 
I 
~ 
~ 
I I I 
Monday, September 1, 1986-page 8
The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame soccer team scored a 1-0 victory over host­school University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee yesterday in the season opener for the Irish. The winning goal came 15 minutes into the first half wl,len Notre Dame's Bruce McCourt headed in a feed from freshman Kevin Kade. Irish goaltender Hugh Breslin picked up the save for Notre Dame. Details of the action will appeal' in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team has slated a meeting today at 4 p.m. in the ACC's football auditorium. Anyone interested in trying out should report to the meeting with a pen or pencil. -The Observer 
• Men's Interhall Football rosters must be submitted by Sept. 3 with an accompanying fee of $40. Uniforms and equipment will be issued only after the rosters are in. Proof of insurance must also be provided. Further information may be obtained by contacting the NVA office at 239-5100. -The Observer 
•

Women"s lnterhall Football rosters must be submitted to the NVK office by Sept. 3 with the $35 entry fee. Team members must reside in the same hall and an insurance and consent form is required. Contact NVA for more information. -The Observer 
• 

NVA Aerobics classes begin Wednesday. More classes and teachers have been scheduled. Call NVA for more details. ­The Observer 


Prices Good 
9-2-86 thru 9-6-86 
BUD 1/2 KEG 
$29.99 

(S.B.Ave. store only) Dark 
case 

PORTABLE 
Mist

canadian 15)
~to.99 {1· 

NVA Stretchercise classes are offered Tuesdays and Thursdays in ACC gym one at 5:10p.m. Cost is eight dollars for a semester or five dollars for half a semester. -The Observer 
•

An NVA Putt Putt Golf Tournament is scheduled for Sep­tember 7. Entry deadline is september fifth. The tournament is o,pened to teams of two players, and the cost is two dollars'· per 'person in advance. Transportation will be provided as necessary. -the Observer 
•

A Scuba Diving Course sponsored by NVA will have jln informatiomil meeting Thursday ih room 219 of the Rock at six p.m. The class is 15 hours long and is open to all students, faculty and staff. -The Observer
•

The ND/SMC J)'JIIDUtic tam • holding a mandatory meeting today at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's Angela Athletic FacilitY<-The 
OIJMTWr 

• The Notre Dame Water Polo Oub will hold an orpnizat.ional'meetina toniabt at 7 in the bakony ofthe Rockne Pool. Further in­formation may be obtained by contactina Dave Patchin at 4502. ­The Observer 
•

Anyone interested in playiq Off-Campus Soccer is uked to call Tom at 272-2S96. -The ObMrwr 
Michelob Reg. Light 

$8.99 
Connors falls 
in another 
Open upset 
Associated Press 

NEW YOIlK -ToddWitsken, playing in his first U.S. open, knocked .off five-time winner Jimmy Connors yesterday to join another surprising winner, Gary Donnelly, in the fourth round at the National Tennis Center. 
Witsken upset Connors, the 
No. 6 seed, 6-2, 6-4, 7-5 after 
Donnelly ousted 13th-seeded 
Anders Jarryd of Sweden, 6-3, 
5-7, 6-1, 6-3. 

Several years ago guys in my 
position never would feel they 
could beat Connors, Witsken 
said. But now hes getting older 
and the guys realize hes heatable, 
that we have a chance." 

The right-hander from Car­
mel, Ind., needed six match 
points to close out the two-hour, 
11-minute victory over the ' 3 3­
year-old Connors, who joined an­
other heralded American left­
bander on the sidelines, John 
McEnroe. Paul Annacone 
eliminated McEnroe T"'esday in 
a first-round matc!Y.-

Witsken, with a berth in the 
fourth rouria clinched, jumped 
into the air w'hen the match 
ended. 

Connors, his two-year, non­
tide string stretched for another 
tournament, put away his old, 
no-longer-made metal rackets 
and prepared for the next stop 
on the Grand Prix circuit. 

The U.S. open has been one 
of the brightest tournaments in . Connors' career. He is the onlf person to win America's premier tennis event on all three surfaces on which it has been played ­grass in 1974, clay in 1976 and hard courts in 1978, 1982 and 1983. But on this sunny day, Connors was eliminated in the third round, the earliest exit he has made from the U.S. open since losing to Australia's John Newcombe in the quarterfirlills 
in 1973. 

My game was flat, my zest for 
the game was flat and I was flat. 
It all equals flat, Connors said. 
Witsken will next face Czec­hoslovakia's Milan. Srejber, who advanced with a 3-6, 6-l, 6-4, -6-2 victory ov(.r Peru's Jaime Yzaga. 
Donnelfy's sutprising victory 
pits him against Wimbledon 
champion Boris Becker of West 
Germany, the No. 3 seed who 
defeated Spain's Sergio Casal7-5, 
6-4, 6-2. 

Czechoslovakia's Miloslav 
Mecir, the No. 16 seed, crushed 
Eddie Edwards of South Africa 
6-0, 6-3. 6-~. 

Photographers 
The Observer is accepting applications for news, sports, and features photographers. Experience in 3Smm black and white photograpy is required. A meeting will be held at 7:30 tonight in the Observer office for all those who are in­terested. 
The Observer 
P.O.BoxQ 3rd Floor LaFortuae Ceater 239-5303 




i 
L 
The Observer Monday, September 1, 1986 -page 9 

Former Notre Dame gridiron star Tony Furjanic discusses strategy with Irish coach George Kelly in a game last year. Marty Strasen explains on page 12 
Student mixed doubles tourney -winners required to report scores to NVA. Men's singles tourney -open (advanced or experienced playe~' and novice (those who have not playec:t competitively dMDOns, best of three sets, winners must turn in scores. 
Domestic and Imported Wines, Beers, Liquors 



ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood Drive South Bend, Indiana 46635 272-7144 
Furjanic 
continuedfrom page 12 
quarter incident. He saw action on almost every defensive down from that point on. 
But Notre Dame's leading tackler in 1985 certainly would not attribute his fortune to the Luck -o-the-Irish. 
It was unf~rtunate that Jim broke his leg, he said. But I was ready, the coach prepared me well and I think I did OK. You have to be on your toes at all times beGause you never know when someones going to go down like that.' 

A great pizza is getUng harder and harder to find. 
aJt ben It la. Great tuty CI\IBl Lua· have lD go oot or your way lD Clod us. douaaauce. Real cbeeae, grated fresh we go out or our way to make It wor1h Topplng8. lDpptnga, toppiD(B. every step you take. 
q~ Godf tba~ ~----~
--ac ~~~­
52920 U.S. 31 N 277·5880 

r--------------COUPON--------------1 
Friday and Saturday Coupon Special Large for Price of Medium 
Good for Carry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 

Delivery unttl11 :00 pm weekdays 
=. 

2:00am on Friday and Saturday ~ 
Explres9/1$'86 ~=ia. L--------------------------------~-­
I was ready for the game·and looking forward to playing, b~t again, not under the circum­stances that it happened. 
Furjanic stepped in and picked up three tackles, all in the second half, and even got a piece of William " The Refrigerator"Perry on a short· yardage situation for the Bears in the third quarter. 
Welcome to the NFL, Tony. 
" (Playing in) the NFL is more mental than· anything~ Furjanic said...The game is still the same. The guys are a little faster but the biggest thing is the mental aspect of the game. 
"Its great to be back at Notre Dame. I was looking forward to this game for a long time, and I saw a lot of guys from last years team. It's just a good feeling." 
That good feeling might not last for long, however, as the former Irish co-captain has his work cut out for him. Bullough will attest to that. 
,.(Haslett) knew our defense and, for us, he was like (Mike) Singl~tary was to last years Bears defense and (Jack) Pardee was to the Redskins' defense in the knowledge department. 
." Hes the kind of guy in the office every day, going over filtns every day and were going to miss that part. W-e won't have anybody to really take over that kind of thing." 
So on Sept. 7, it appears Fur­janie will be the man lining up beyond the trenches in Buffalo, a long way from his hometown of Chicago. 
But how did it feel hitting the Frige? 
"Hes just another player,' Fur­janie said."Y ou cant be scared of anyone, and we even made him cough up the ball on one occa­sion. That shows hes human too. 
... I got to hit him a little," he laughed."lt doesnt hurt as long as youre going in there wid'! more force than he is." 


Tbe independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is accepting appUcations for the foUowing position: 
Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Questions ad resume slaould be olirected to Scott lleMity by Wednesday,.September 3. 



After the two teams traded why we traded Joe Cribbs.' Dame and St. Mary's College. 
Student Activities Board 
Used Book Exchange 
Book exchange wjll be available by Monday, September 8. 
Stay tuned for time and location. Questions: 239-5213 or stop by SAB offices 



perhaps best ofall, smarter. You'll alsoqualilytowin aTrek® 12-speed touring bike. And you'II walk Just take part in ademonstJation away with afree bicycle cap. 
ofthe Macitltosh""personal computer Macintosh and aTrek bike. from Apple lkith will do more than help you You'll see how Macintosh can 
get ahead. Both will take you •'
33~%off 4 9q:: 
help you work better, faster and, anywhere you want to go. _. 
one hour processing & prints one hour color reprints 
Big 4x6 prints from 135 film. 110. 126 4 reprints from the.same coi<_Jr nega-
I 

or disc color print sizes vary (C41 live. Blg4x6 pnnts Trom 135 f1lm. 110, process only). No limit on number of 126 Or diSC COIC. pnnt SIZeS vary (C41 r ENTER AUGUST 20 -OCTOBER 3rolls with coupon. Not combinable process only). Coupon can be used with other processing and print on any number of negat!ves. Not NOTRE DAME COMPUTER STORE 
offers. Offer is void where prohibited, combmable w1th other r~J:>nnt offers. ROOM 25 -COMPUTING CENTER/MATH BUILDING taxed. or licensed by law. Cash value Offer 1s vo1d where proh1b1ted, taxed, 1/20¢. or licensed by law. Cash value 1/20¢. ~ghNowember 8, 1986 I ~ugh Nowember·8, 1986 
I 

f~/tT' rt~,·tn.t''''L' tJIIt~ ,/(/,Ill\ ttrf'llt tllltlhf,· a/ )uur m,(rt~t mil{'"".,.',.,,,.,. lllt rdl'fli/'-~ ~~~wluhh• uhr/1• .lU·1'/'~l·I,L'iiJ 7h·k• u· alrtl4ft•marJ: oj Trd! IIJc)t/t• t orp "' /1),\'():V'I"•' t.umputc-r lm .~~·If' ,mdlht•:i{'P''' log•' ''"' rt'J.!L.,ftT'c d trc~le·m.~rk., u.J.-tf•ftlt• t.ill11f111/t'T lllf Mrlfllllusb Llll lrtltlt7lltlrk of.\ldnltJ.JJ l.tJII<fftJiory: /n, tUiti l.f ht'lll),! 1/.Jt~/tnlb ;b t:tfJrt:\.\ f~TIJII.'i..lll·ll 
Irish 
continued/rom page 12 
of touchdowns. Challenging sig­
nal callers Terry Andrysiak and 
Steve Belles, meanwhile, had 
less success directing their units 
against the numbJ:r one defense. 
That main · defensive unit, 
which Holtz has tabbed as the 
key to any success the Irish may 
have in 1986, was .. consistent 
throughout the day. Senior cor­
her Marv Spence parlayed a per­
fect read of an Andrysiak .pass 
into six points, stepping in front 
of intended receiver Reggie 
Ward and running 25. yards to 
the score. The defensive line, 
meanwhile, made it a rough day 
for the offensive backs in shut­
ting down the running game over 
the first few series. 
Bears 

plays and five ftnt downs. 
Jim Kelly, the Bills' future at quarterback, came into the game with 6:33 left' in the ftrst half, and failed to move the ball. Bills' punter John Kidd, however, made sure that the Bears had poor field position, averaging 
45.6 yards on his 5 kicks, includ­ing one for 57 yards. 
Chicago then drove downfield, featuring a 35-yard pass play over the middle from McMahon to Thomas. The Bears got a big break when Bills' cor­nerback Derrick Burroughs received a questionable pass in­terference call on the two-yard line. Payton dove behind the block of William Perry on Bills ' linebacker Eugene Marve for the score. 
Buffalo had another break go against them as the kickoff bounced at the 12-yard line and was badly . fielded, enabling Bears' player Shaun Gayle to 
Sophomore tailback Mark Green, slated to be the main rus­her for the Irish this fall, picked up 51 yards on six carries includ­ing a pretty 35-yard sprint on a reverse play to set up the final score. D'Juan Francisco also ran well in his few attempts, al­though he was forced to exit early with a slight hamstring pull. Both freshman tailback Anthony Johnson and freshman fullback Braxston Banks also carried the ball in the scrimmage. 
IRISH ITEMS Sitting out Friday's scrimmage were outside linebacker Dave Butler and strong safety George Streeter. Both are nursing hamstring in­JUrtes. . . Holtz interrupted the scrimmage Friday to let Buf­falo Bills' stars Jim Kelly and Greg Bell say a few inspirational words to the squad. 
recover the fumble. After a seven-yard run by Tim Wrightman, McMahon passed to a wide-open Thomas, who went in from four yards out. 
Kelly then reentered with 1 :48 remaining and quickly moved the ball downfield via a 22-yard pass to Don Rolle and an 18-yard pass to Andre Reed at the Chicago 30-yard line. Bills' placekicker Scott Norwood, however, had his 42-yard field goal attempt blocked by Tyrone Keys as the half ended. 
In the first half, Buffalo led in total yards (141), third-down efficiency (5-of-8), possesion time (17:39), and penalties (67 yards). Chicago had 141 total yards, 1-of-4 third-down effi­ciency, and held the ball for 
12:21 of the half. 
Chicago changed quarter­backs at the start of the second half, going to Mike T'Omczak, who quickly connected with Willie Gault and Matt Suhey for 
a combined 18 yards. Another costly pass interference call at the Buffalo four-yard line on Rodney Bellinger hurt the Bills, but 

There won't be a sixth U.S. Open Championship for Jimmy Connors. The number 6 seeded Connors was upset in three sets ofOpen play yesterday by unseeded Riddick gained 94 yards on IS 
carries for a 5.2 average. Regular 
Bills' tailback and Notre Dame 
grad Greg Bell, meanwhile, did 
not play due to an ankle injury. 
The Bears solidified their lead 
in the fourth period on 
placekicker Kevin Butler's 46­
yard field goal. Butler's boot was 
set up by a 32-yard pass from 
Tomczak co rookie wide out 
David Williams. Chicago dosed 
out the scoring for the day on its 
next possession when Tomczak 
flipped a 55-yard touchdown 
pass to receiver Lew Barnes. 
"We had the perfect play 
called for Tomczak on a third­down but he didn't execute," said Ditka of Tomczak, who finished 8-of-16 for 148-yards. '"The next time he read the blitz 
and threw a TD pass." 
There were SO, 196 patrons 
total in attendance for the game, 
which was held to benefit the 
1987 International Summer Spe­
cial Olympics to be held at Notre Perry fumbled the ball on a dive play and Buffalo's Charles Romes recovered. 

Aside from a 26-yard jaunt b) Riddick, who carried the ball 12 times for 58 yards, Kelly had trouble moving the Bills. But the former USFL star got another chance moments later when a Tomczak pass for Gault was deflected by Romes into the 
hands  of  teammate  Steve  
Freeman  and  returned  to  the  
Chicago 42-yard line.  

Kelly's ensuing attempt for a touchdown on a deep throw to receiver Jimmy Teal was broken up"by Bears' cornerback Reggie Phillips in a play that many Bills' players felt was pass inter­ference. The drive was sus­tained, however, when Kelly ran a bootleg for seven yards and converted a broken pass play into .another 11 yards to the 19-yard 
line. Norwood hit the 25-yard 
field goal from there to cut 
Chicago's lead to 4. 
possessions, Kelly was replaced at the Bills' helm by Brian McClure. Kelly finished his NFL debut with 5-of-9 passing for 60­yards. Starting signal-caller Reich was 7-of-14 for 1 56-yards. 
"For the first time out I thought I did pretty well~ said Kelly."The offfensive line did a good job blocking. I thought our team really fought to the end. I think everybody is tired of losing an~ we will turn this thing around. 
"· I dont know how much Kelly will play next week or if he will be my starting quarterback,' said Bills head coach Hank Bullough. He still has to learn what he is doing. It will be a weekly
, 
process. 

Bullough was more certain, though, in his evaluation of his team's play in the contest. 
" I am pleased now about the run blocking, but Ill probably get unhappy as I watch the film,' said Bullough."Riddick has been running well all preseason. Thats 
']I['~t:ll~~------------------------------------------------------M•o•nd•a•y.•S.ep•t-em•b•e•r•l.•l9•8•6•-•p•a-ge
..ll 


Zeto 
The Far Side Gary Larson 

.. ' 
1 l 
I 
j 
0 

I j j I "You know what I think, Vernon? I think you're I hiding one of those things the Indians bury up j j

to their necks -that's what I think!" 
IAMERICAN

Please ~CANCER
support the 'SOCIETY~ 
Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
NOWRENTING FOil FAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
Move in before 9/l 5!86 and get 
one month free rent 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
234-6647 
Call Anytime 

ARTISTS! 
Get the exposure you need NOW! The Observer Graphic Arts Department Is looking for talented, enthusiastic people to fill positions as: 
Cartoonists, editorial Illustrators Cartoonists, series/humor Advertisement artists 
Graphic artists 
Pick-up an application this week and return It with example of your work. 
Deadline: Friday, Sept. 5 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Yankee great 5 Estimate 9 Not close 
13 lt. seaport 14 Gob's greeting 15 Clio or Erato 16 Type of city 
or tube 17 Long hair 18 Afr. fox 19 Asian gazelle 20 Milk and 
butter shop 22 Minute or 
Salisbury 23 Averted 25 Eyelid disorder 26 Merchandise 
certificate 28 Object of no value 
30 Comanche missile 31 Euterpe's 

domain 32 Marine school 35 Not abundant <>1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

36 Gallic summer All Rights Reserved 37 Mecca shrine 39 Actor Linden 5 Asiatic shrub 40 Take to the 6 Difficult soapbox problem 42 Belg. town 7 Theater award 43 Snapshot 8 Hurricane 44 Borg and center Bergman 9 Explosive 45 Watering hole 1 0 Melts together 48 -longue 11 Maestro's 50 Angry "very" 51 Caen coin 12 Smells 52 Negative 13 Fishing spear 55 Lollobrigida 21 Miller or 56 Char Sothem 57 Actor Brian 22 Difficult 59 Encounter predicament 60 Mild oath 24 Above 61 Kovacs or Pyle 25-Beta Kappa 62 In addition 26 Ready money 63 Lodge members 27 Killer whale 64 Labels 29 Words of understanding DOWN 31 Food 1 Gambling town 32 Fruitful hobby 2 Affected 33 Busy as­3 Hallux 34 Church service 4 Difficult task 38 Mimics 
9/1/86 

Friday's Solution 

41 Actor Howard 49 Listens 43 Irish staple 51 Sense 44 -Salvador 53 Elevator name 45 Gr. letter 54 Article 46 "The Tempest" 56 That girl 
spirit 58 Memorable 47 Country paths period 
l 
j I I 
i 
~ 
I I 1 
l 
I 
J 
I I I I 
1 
j l 1 
.... ! 
I 
I I 
j 
I 
l 
j 
l 1 
i J j 
I j 

--------~-------~--~-------------------­
............~~~~~~--------------------~----~--~~-.~~----~-----------·----------------­
S~orts 
Second-half surge keys Bears to 31-17 victory over Buffalo 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI " Oeveland (the Bears opening­Dent on third down. Bills' run­Assistant Sports Editor day opponent) is going to laugh ning back Robb Riddick when rhey see the films. I cant teamed up with fullback Ricky 
Despite a 31-17 exhibition­take anything away frQm the Moore to move the ball on the game victory over the Buffalo Bills. They came after us well; ground all afternoon. Riddick Bills Saturday at Notre Dame we had pads on just like they did swept left, out-running the Stadium, the Chicago Bears now and didnt perform." defense to take it in from seven understand why repeating as The game did not begin well. yards for th~ score. NFL champion is one ofthe toug­for the Bears as Buffalo's Walter hest feats in sports. 'Broughton returned the kickoff The Bears and Bills traded 
The Bears' first-team offense 57 yards to the Chicago 34-yard possesions as the first quarter had trouble moving the ball con­line. After two short runs, start­ended with Chicago going 0-for­
" 
sistently early in the game against ing quarterback Frank Reich hit 3 on third down conversions. 
the Bills, while the Bears first Jerry Butler over the middle for The Chicago offense began to team defense lacked a pass rush. a 30-yard touchdown pass. stir in the second quarter as ful­The Bills also won the war on The Bears were then stopped lback Calvin Thomas ran for a both lines in the first half. cold after three running plays first down and running back " It was an understatement to and punted. Following the punt Walter Payton broke into the say that we didnt move the ball;" and a penalty, the Bills mounted open for 18 yards. Quarterback said .JJ~ar!' head coach Mike an impressive 90-yard scoring Jim McMahon hit Dennis Gentry Ditka. You saw the same game drive which included 14 plays on a 20-yard pass play and Payton 
as I did. It was an old-fashioned and 7 first downs, taking over scored from seven yards out to butt-whipping. We need to stop seven minutes. cap the 77-yard drive, using II reading the clippings and play The drive was kept alive by a football. costly offsides penalty by Richard see BEARS, page 10 
Former Irish grid star Furjanic finds himself in key role for Bills 
By MARTY STRASEN falo, and a shoulder separation head coach Hank Bullough said Assistant Sports Editor to nine-year NFL veteran Lucius of the 6-1, 228-pound rookie. Sanford cenainly didn't hurt his "were down to two inside back­
Former Notre Dame inside chances at the linebacker slot. ers. I like Tony, I think hes a linebacker Tony Furjanic came Saturday, Furjanic's unpredicta­good prospect, but he kind of to Notre Dame Stadium Saturday ble climb to the top of the depth wins it by default right now. battling for a position on the Buf­chart got another boost. "Not that he doe~nt deserve it falo Bills' 1986 roster. With 3:48 ~maining in tht Tonys a good player. He's a very, Little did he know he would first half of the preseason game very smart guy and I'm happy leave the campus as one of the against the Chicago Bears, eight­with. the way he's progressing. NFL club's probable starters in year veteran linebacker and de­Tony's a good guy." 
next week's regular-season fensive signal-caller Jim Haslett Furjanic began Saturday's opener against the New York seriously fractured his left leg game on special teams for the Jets. 
and was carried off the field on Bills, before being thrust into the 
Just a few weeks ago, the Bills' a stretcher. He could be out for limelight after the second­eighth-round draft choice was the season -and Furjanic is in. one of the big surprises in Buf-"He has no choice," Buffalo see FURJANIC, page 9 

cisoc's stunning comeback was cut short by a severe hand injury that may sideline him for as long as eight weeks. Marty Burns has details at right. 
Tom Gallaway (45) heads in for a tackle in Friday 
~ 
afternoon's scrimmage at Notre Dame Stadium. Fran-
r 
t 
-~--­
Monday, September 1, 1986-page 12 

Tho Observer I Joe Vi'*'<O 
Buffalo Bills running back Rob Riddick is upended by Chicago Bears linebacker Otis Wilson in Saturday's NFL exhibition at Notre Dame Stadium. Bills receiver Jerry Butler and Bears cornerback Mike Richard­son wrestle at left. Mike Szymanski desribes the story of the Bears' 31-17 victory at left. 
Football Ticket Distribution 
Today marks the first day students may pick-up their season ticket booklets for the 1986 football season. Students who wish to purchase tickets must bring their applica,­tion, remittance and l.D. card to Gate 10 of the ACCon ihe-<ra~• specified for your class. Tickets will not be distributed at Gate 3 as was originally printed on styudent applications. A limit of four applications may be presented together per student, provided that the individual presenting the applications has aU four I. D. cards. Married students wishing to purchase a ticket for their spouse must show proof of marriage. The ticket for the spouse will be the same price as a regular student ticket. · 
The schedule for ticket distribution is as follows: 
Seniors Today Juniors Tuesday, Sept. 2 Soph./Grad/Law Wed., Sept. 3 Freshmen Thursday, Sept. 4 
Injury to Francisco spoils Irish scrimmage 
By MARTY BURNS section of a pin into the injured Assistant Sports Editor area. Francisco is expected to be out six to eight weeks. 
A nasty thing happened to wits very disappointing because Notre Dame tailback Hiawatha he has rhe ability to do some Francisco on his way back to the thin~ for us;' said Holtz ofFran­top Friday afternoon. cisco."He really ran well. Based 
Running the ball on severely on his running today, he could arthritic knees which many have made a real contribution~ people felt would not allow him 
Up until Francisco's injury, to play at all this season, the 5-10, things were going relatively well 194-pound senior turned Friday's for Holtz' squad. The number 
scrimmage into a personal forum one offense made several lengthy to officially shelve his retirement drives against the number two plans. · defense, while the top defense 
held the number two offense in But just as Francisco's 61 check for the entire day. yards on 10 carries was prompt­•Thats the vyay its supposed tc work," said Holtz~I saw a lot of
ing Irish head coach Lou Ho.ltz good things today in the areas of
to rethink his backfield depth hitting and intensity. And I sawchart, a hand injury sustained some bad things as well -thelate in the three-hour practice ball was on the ground too much~'session put an end to any of Fran­Senior quarterback Steve cisco's comeback hopes for 
Beuerlein did a pretty good job . awhile. Although the exact na­
of keeping the ball off the ture of the injury could not be ground, connecting on 18-of-28 :determined at the time, Holtz passes for 250 yards and a pair stated it was basically a hyperex­tended thumb requiring i:he in-see IRISH, page 10 


