France -page 3 


Associated Press written and represents anything 
more than the views of Mr. 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Islamic Jacobsen's captors." Jihad urged the United States The three-page letter was writ­yesterday to negotiate for the ten in poor and often stilted En­release of three American glish, raising doubts that its hostages in Lebanon as it did original author was the 55-year­with the Soviet Union for Ameri­old Jacobsen, who was the ad­can newsman Nicholas Daniloff. ministrator of the American Uni­
The Shiite Moslem group also versity Hospital when he was 
released a letter bearing the kidnapped last year. name of hostage David Jacob­Misspellings in the letter in­sen, which made a similar plea cluded the name of the Rev. and warned that the kidnappers Lawrence Martin Jenco, a 
might kill their captives. hostage who was freed in July 
White House spokesman Larry after being held with Jacobsen Speakes said in Washington that and the others. administration officials believe Jacobsen is one of six Jacobsen apparently wrote the Americans now missing in letter but "there is good reason to question whether it was freely see HOSTAGES, page 4 
European Common Market places sanctions on Pretoria 
Associated Press Africa," said Sir Geoffrey Howe, 
the British foreign secretary and 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -The 12 chairman of the Common Market European Cmnmon Market na­conference of foreign ministers. tions yesterday banned the pur­chase of South African iron, steel In reaction to the Europeans' and gold coins as part of a pack­decision, South African Foreign age of economic sanctions to Minister R. F. botha said the gov­protest apartheid. ernment would study ways of 
The watt~red-down package defending the economy. He said also includes a ban on new in­it would not impose punitive vestments in South Africa. measures in retaliation. However, a ban on coal imports, The ban on iron and steel im­
which would have had more im­ports takes effect Sept. 27, Howe pact on South Africa's economy, said. Further talks at a lower po­was not adopted. litical level are needed to decide 
"We've reached a conclusion how to implement the ban on that sends a clear signal of what commercial investment and pur­
HPC discusses lack of clear policy on du Lac's off-campus authority 
By J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY missal of a University employee. ment of University policy regard­NEWS STAFF This discussion led to debate ing non-alcoholic campus events over whether the relationship be­caused problems ranging from The lack of a clear-cut Univer­tween the University and its res­non-alcoholic dances and tail­
sity policy. on du Lac's off­ident assistants could be des­gaters to the University's position campus authority was discussed cribed as one of employer and on SYRs held on home football at last night's Hall Presidents' employee. weekends, according to HPC Council meeting. Off-campus representative members. 
Clarification of university Race Thoman questioned why a Vice President for Residence 
policy regarding non-alcoholic university which preaches com­Life John Goldrick said the deci­campus events was also dis­passion seemed to show none in sion to hold SYR's over home cussed. HPC members said un­this situation. football weekends is at the dis­certainty involving such events "If it is such a difficult decision, cretion of the rectors, according .led to the last minute cancella­then why are they so strict every to HPC members. tion of several planned non­time?'' asked Lyons president The HPC discussed the possi­alcoholic tailgaiters last Satur­Judy Grace. bility that rectors do not under­day. The resident assistants' stand that it is their decision. 
The discussion surrounding punishment was too severe, ac­Pasquerilla West president Col­du Lac's applicability off-campus cording to several hall presi­leen Kretz said this uncertainty centered on the recent dismissal dents. leads to difficulty when planning 
of two resident assistants from Several HPC members ex­events or trying new ideas, espe­
Keenan and Lewis. pressed hopes to meet with Uni­cially non-alcohlic events. 
Several presidents also ques­versity officials about these is­"When they are not sure, they tioned the relevance of a non­sues. job-related incident to the dis-The lack of a definitive state-see HPC, page 4 
South African gold mine accident kills at least 44 and traps over 150 
Associated Press the mine gate that 26 bodies searching for the men who 
were brought out of the mine remained underground. 
EVANDER. South Africa (AP) -shortly before midnight, about There was hope that some of A welding accident touched off a 14 hours after the fire broke out. the miners trapped in the tunnels fire in a gold mine yesterday, kil­where the fire started avoided the ling at least 44 workers, injuring Earlier, the company had Said deadly fumes by staying in pock­183 and trapping more than 150 18 miners were known dead. De ets of untainted air. in a mile-deep underground Beer said 154 miners were mis­South African Press Associa­shaft, officials reported. sing. tion, an independent news 
The state-run South African Olivier said 128 black workers agency, quoted a man at the 
Broadcasting Corp. quoted and 55 whites were hospitalized scene as saying he counted more 
Kobus Olivier, manager of the in Evander, which is on the edge than I00 bodies. SAPA did not 
Kinross mine, as saying. there of the mine, most suffering from identify the man and the report 
was only a slight chance that the smoke inhalation. Five were re­could not be confirmed. 
missing miners had survived. ported in serious condition while A general Mining Union 
But company officials disputed the others were listed as satis­spokesman, Harry Hill, said an 
a report that I00 bodies had factory. alarm was sounded to evacuate 
been brought to the surface. More than 2,000 miners were the No. 2 shaft at the Kinross -
Dawie De Beer, spokesman for brought safely out of the shafts, mine, 62 miles east ofJohannes­
General Mining Union Corp., Olivier said, and 50 rescue burg, when the fire broke out at 
South Africa's second-largest workers were still in the mine 12 
mining group, told reporters at hours after the fire broke out, see FIRE, page 4 

A student takes a refreshing nap on the Hall yesterday. Such catnaps could make a 
we want to see happen in South chase of gold coins, he said. fountain in front of the Nieuwland Science big splash with Notre Dame students. 

---------·------------~-~-------------~-~------­
The Observer Wednesday, September 17, 1986 -page 2 
Of Interest 

Vice President George Bush will be in South Bend Thursday, September 18. Bush and his wife will arrive aboard Air Force Two at Michiana Regional Airport at approximately I 2:30 p.m. All are encouraged to welcome the Vice President upon his arrival. -The Observer 
A Holy Land lecture and slide show will be presented tonight at 6:30 by Professor James Flemin9, who teaches Holy Land Geography and Archeology at Notre Dame's Foreign Study Program at Tantur, Israel. The presentation will be held in the ETS Theater, in the basement of the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 
A legal forum to address the citations and court summons issued to students at parties in the last two weeks will be held tonight at 7 in the library auditorium. Legal Services Directors Mario Zepponi and Glenn Guanowsky, law students at Notre Dame, will present their general findings in the forum. A question and answer period will follow the presenta­tion. -The Observer 
A Truman Scholar meeting will be held tonight at 7 in 12 I O'Shaughnessy for all interested sophomores. The scholar­ships are awarded to students with outstanding potential for leadership in any phase of government plan to attend a graduate program leading to a public service career, hold at least a B average, and are U.S. citizens. The scholarship covers tuition expenses, fees, books, room and board, to a maximum of $6,500 annually up to four years. -The Observer 
MEET THE FIRMS NIGHT 
TONIGHT! 
Wednesday, September 17, in the ACC Monogram Room. 
All Undergrads are invited to meet the recruiters from various Accounting, Banking and Industrial firms. 
Dress is casual but neat. 
Meet the Firms Night will be held tonight from 7 to I 0 in the Athletic and Convocation Center's Monogram Room. All undergraduates are invited to attend this event. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer . 
An art exhibition from Saint Mary's Redbud Show, will be featured this week in the Hammes Gallery. The workshop offers a chance for students and faculty to work together in a natural environment. The show will exhibit drawing and painting, mixed-media printmaking, raku and pit-fire pottery and sculpture, photography and field biology. -The Observer 
Senior Informal sign-ups will be held today and tomorrow from 2 to 5 p.m. in the Lafortune's west basement. The informal will be the weekend of October 3,4, and 5 in down­town Chicago. A $50 package fee includes two nights lodging and a buffet breakfast at the Lakeshore Drive Holiday Inn. Second City tickets will also be available at the sign-ups. The Observer 
Three Notre Dame alumni have been appointed by Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hesburgh to advisory councils at the University. James Fitzgerald, a 194 7 graduate, will serve on the advisory council for the College of Arts and Letters. Jose Fernandez, Sr., a 1965 alumnus, has 'been named to the College of Business Administration advisory council. Edward O'Toole, who received a B.S. in civil engi­neering in 1958 and a J.D. in 1961 from the University, has been appointed to the College of Engineering advisory coun­
cil. -The Observer 

Cynthia Scott a Rockford, Ill., native, has been named assistant director of public information at Notre Dame. Her appointment ws announced by Richard Conklin, director of public relations and information. Scott received her bac­helor's and master's degrees from the Mcdill School of Jour­nalism at Northwestern University. She began her career in the communication department of the Merchandise Mart in Chicago. Most recently Scott served as communication direc­tor for the South Bend1'1ishawaka Area Chamber of Com­merce. : The Observer 
Weather 
Shedding some light on the weather, it will be mostly sunny and warm today, with highs in the low to mid 70s. There is in­creasing cloudiness tonight with a 40 percent chance of thunder­showers and lows in the low 60s. 

Tomorrow will be warm with highs near 80. Skies will be partly cloudy with a 30 percent chance of thundershowers. 


Design Editor ....... Melissa Warnke Sports Copy Editor . ... Rick Rietbrock Layout Staff . ........ Tom Schiesser Typists . .............. Esther Ivory Typesetters ....... Becky Gunderman ND Day Editor . ...... Kim Yuratovic ..................... Michael Buc AdDesign . ............ Fred Nelson News Editor . .......... Cliff Stevens .............. Mary Carol Creadon Copy Editor . .......... Regis Coccia 
The Observer ( l'~PS ~'l'll-<000) "puhli,he<.l ~lon<.la) throujlh ~n<.la,· ex•ept durin~<: exam and vu·at1un period~ Tht O~rver l!'t puhli~ht'd h~ the: ...tudent!'>tJftht: 1 nivrr!'lit~ of ~otre Dame and Saint "'ary·~ College 
The Observer " a memher of The Associated Press. All repro<.lu<"tion n~ht' art· 
reSt"f"\'ed 


Join us for a MARRIAGE PREPARATION INFORMATION NIGHT 
Tuesday, Sept. 23rd 7-9pm 
Badin Hall Chapel 
Marriage preparation is a Diocesan requirement nationwide. Ifyou are getting married in Sacred Heart 

Church oryour own parish · you 
may do your marriage preparation 
here. Call University Ministry 
Badin Office: 239-5242 
1m1 
OfF!CE Of
ITS NEVER TOO SOON TO START! 
LI'MIIl/TY 
~ 

Comprehensive programs for persons with: 
Bulimia Nervosa Anorexia Nervosa Compulsive Overeating 

HOPE 
in the treatment of eating disorders. An affiliate of Memorial Hospital of South Bendm 
------------·--~---------~-~----­
The Observer Wednesday, September 17, 1986-page 3 
French try to keep life normal despite beefing up security 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Tile French, keeping a wary vigil for more terrorist bombs in tlleir midst, are trying to juggle normal routines with new security steps that some say play into tile bombers' !lands. 
Police switchboards buzz witll calls. 
One caller said a pile of leaves outside City Hall could disguise a bomb. Tile leaves were swiftly removed. Tile Stock Exchange and two Metro stations were hastily evacuated for wllat turned out to be false alarms. 
In tile northern city of Caen, a young woman dumped a parcel on a post office counter and hurried away. Police evacuated tile building, and the bomb squad raced up. Tiley found let­ters, stamped for mailing. 
In the past eight days, . four bombings llave killed a total of tllree people and injured more tllan I 00. Tile most recent bom­bing, on Monday, was inside tile central police station. 
Even before Monday's bom­bing, new anti-terrorist measures were implemented, in­cluding visa requirements for visitors from all but the I 2 European Common Market countries and Switzerland. 
The French, who tend not to suffer officialdom lightly, quietly submitted to opening bags and even body searches at depart· ment stores, theaters, restau­rants and other public places. 
SINGLE WOMENS' RETREAT Mary's Solitude Center Saint Mary's Campus Oct. 3-4, 7am-7pm 
Call: SISTER ARLENE 284-5599 

"I am delighted tile police arc on tile job," an elderly woman remarked, interviewed on televi­sion along the Cllamps-Elysees. "There are not enough searches for my taste." 
Some commentators warned that tile security measures or­dered by Premier Jacques Chirac played into terrorists' hands, creating a mood of fear and doubt. 
Some worried that using the armed forces to supplement gendarmes and border police es­tablished a worrisome precedent for a democracy. Others said the imposition of visas would scare off tourists. 
The Metro, Paris' underground railroad, is as crowded as usual, but passengers glance under their seats and eye fellow riders with some suspicion. Many, fearing a bomb in the subway, use the buses. 
Responsibility for the bom­bings has been claimed by Middle Eastern terrorists who have issued almost daily threats to raise the stakes until the gov­ernment releases Georges Ibrahim Abdallah, reputed leader of a group called the Lebanese Armed Revolutionary Factions. 
NOW HIRING! NOW HIRING! 
Part-time evening Telephone sales 
phone 233-9045 
between 5:30 -9:00 
(conocO) 
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA 
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA WILL BE ON CAMPUS FOR A PRE-RECRUITING PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION. WE WILL DISCUSS OPPOR­TUNITIES IN OUR MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS GRADUATING IN DECEMBER OR MAY ARE INVITED TO ATTEND: 
DATE: SEPTEMBER 18, 1986 TIME: 8:00 -10:00 PLACE: ALUMNI ROOM -MORRIS INN 
spite of it. But I'm completely in favor of any security measure.:· An American wllo llas lived decades in Paris remarked: 
"I flnd tile wllole thing frighten­ing, tile police measures and the public attitudes. It reminds me of Algeria wllcn everyone was afraid of terrorist attacks." 
We are pleased to announce the following 1986 graduates of the University of Notre Dame have recently become associated with our firm. 
Because of tile Middle East connection, Arabs and Moslems living in t'rance llave become tar­gets of resentment and black humor. 
"It is simple," a Paris dentist said in jest. "Don't let Arabs carry any parcels or bags." 
Many people say tile spate of 
ALBUQUERQUE OFFICE 
Matthew J. Chavez, BBA 
Audit 
ATLANTA OFFICE 
Joseph F. Ebberwein, BBA 
Audit 
BOSTON OFFICE Kathleen R. McCarthy, BBA 
Audit 
Mark E. Oberlies, BBA 
Audit 
John M. Perlowski, BBA 
Audit 
Michelle D. Trosset, BBA 
Audit 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
Katherine A. Balane, BBA 
Audit 
Jacqueline M. Barry, BBA 
Audit 
Peter P. Blood, BBA 
Consulting 
Karen M. Bobear, MBA 
Consulting 
Pamela M. Bombei, BBA 
Tax 
Mark A. Bradshaw, BA 
Consulting 
Lee F. Broussard, BBA 
Consulting 
Noreen C. Connor, BS 
Consulting 
Diedre A. Drehmel, BS 
Consulting 
Daniel J. Dressel, BS 
Consulting 
John G. Duffy, BBA 
Audit 
Robert E. Dunn, BA 
Consulting 
Kendra K. Erven, BS 
Consulting 
Elizabeth A. Fitzpatrick, BS 
Consulting 
Jill A. Hansen, BS 
Consulting 
Mary E. Harrington, BA 
Consulting 
Gregory R. Herman, BA 
Consulting 
Elena M. Hidalgo, BBA 
Consulting 
Christopher C. Hirschfeld, BA 
Consulting 
Teresa M. Kilgannon, BA 
Consulting 

bombings llas not changed tlleir lives, hut IIley avoid department stores and crowds. Some ques­tioned whether searches will stop future bombings. 
"I don't thirik searching does imy good," observed Pascale Magnier, 28, waiting for a bus. "Tile police station blew up in 
Mary C. Kinnucan, BA 
Consulting 
Arthur C. Lumb, BBA 
Consulting 
Stephen D. McKay, BS 
Consulting 
Matthew J. Michel, BS 
Consulting 
Amit N. Patel, MBA 
Audit 
Dana M. Phillips, BBA 
Audit 
John W. Pietrowicz, BBA 
Audit 
Brian C. Rady, BBA 
Audit 
Mike Rashid, BBA 
Audit 
James S. Reed, BBA 
Audit 
William P. Ryder, BBA 
Audit 
John C. Sekely, MBA 
Consulting 
Deanne M. Smith, BBA 
Audit 
Robert T. Spoonmore, BS 
Consulting 
Laura J. Temple, BA 
Consulting 
David F. Tracy, BBA 
Audit 
Marci A. Yeakel, BBA 
Tax 
CHICAGO WORLD HEADQUARTERS 
John K. Kaltenmark, BS 
Technical Services 
John E. Lawler, BS 
Technical Services 
limothy L. Mould, BA 
Technical Services 
CINCINNATI OFFICE 
Robert W. Dieckman, BBA 
Audit 
Susan M. Hemmer, BS 
Consulting 
DETROIT OFFICE 
Daniel J. Scanlan, BBA 
Audit GRAND RAPIDS OFFICE 
Jane M. Boland, BBA 
Audit 
limothy P. Clark, BBA 
Audit HARTFORD OFFICE 
Mary R. Heary, BA 
Consulting 
Mary E. Hronchek, BBA 
Audit 
LOS ANGELES OFFICE 
Randy M. Golob, BS 
Consulting 
Christopher T. Ishikawa, BBA 
Audit 
Colleen M. Nolan, BA 
Consulting 
MINNEAPOLIS OFFICE 
Michael D. Michaux, BBA 
Audit 
Carey M. Nelson, BBA 
Consulting 
NEW YORK OFFICE 
Bruce S. Blondin, BBA .,._
Tax 
John J. Byrnes, BBA 
Audit 
Jeanene M. Colombo, BS 
Consulting 
Kevin P. Keenan, BBA 
Audit 
David H. Smith, BBA 
Consulting 
PHILADELPHIA OFFICE 
Edward J. O'Hara, BBA 
Audit PITTSBURGH OFFICE 
Mark S. Mannion, BBA 
Audit SAN FRANCISCO OFFICE 
David C. Graham, BA 
Consulting 
Michael T. Huber, BS 
Consulting 
Lon J. Huffman, BS 
Consulting 
Michael R. Normant, BS 
Consulting 
STAMFORD OFFICE 
Steven E. Jegier, BBA 
Consulting WASHINGTON, D.C. OFFICE 
Theresa J. Campbell, BS 
Consulting 
James P. Sinnott, BBA 
Audit 


We are p\eased to announce the following 1986 graduates of the University of­Notre Dame Law School have recently become associated with our firm. 
CHICAGO OFFICE 
ScottR.Bilse,JD Linda L. Mekhitarian, JD 
Tax Tax 
We are pleased to announce the following 1986 graduates of St. Mary's College have recently become associated with our firm. 
ATLANTA OFFICE  Joan M. Callaghan, BBA  Angela S. Laub, BS  
Maureen H. O'Sullivan, BBA  Audit  Consulting  
Audit  Camille E. Cutrara, BBA  
CHICAGO OFFICE Susan C. Avitible, BA Consulting  Audit Mary M. Gorenz, BBA Audit  

Our representatives will be conducting campus interviews at Notre Dame on the following dates: Audit & Tax -September 29 & 30, 1986 Consulting -October 15, 1986 
Contact your placement office to sign up for an interview 
ARTHUR 
ANDERSEN 
&(9· 

33 West Monroe Street, Chicago, Illinois 60603 (312) 58(H)033 



,..-------~~--------~-~--~-~---------------­
Wednesday, September 17, 1986-page4
The Observer 
Hostages 
continuedfrom page 1 
Lebanon. Islamic Jihad says it holds three American hostages and killed a fourth. It is uncertain who carried out the kidnappings last week of two other Americans. 
Islamic Jihad's latest com­munique and the handwritten letter were in a packet left out­side a Western news agency in Moslem .west Beirut. The packet also contained a Polaroid photo­graph of Jacobsen in pajamas, almost identical to one of him released with an Islamic Jihad statement in Beirut last week. 
"Why was Reagan interested minute by minute with spy jour­nalist Daneloff but he is not in­terested one minute in our story?" asked the letter said to have been handwritten by Jacob­sen. Daniloff's name was mis­spelled. 
In a separate, typewritten, Arabic-language statement Is­lamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy War, said the Reagan administration had made "concessions in the 
HPC 
continuedfrom page 1 
have to say 'no'," said Kretz. 
"Even when we get the encour­agement from our rectors, there is so much gray area left open to interpretation by officials that we still get shut down," said St. Edward's Hall president Andrew Barlow. 
Director of Student Activities Joni Neal decided to cancel the planned tailgaters of the classes of 87 and 89 because the events would take place in an atmo­sphere conducive to drinking. said HPC members. 
The question was raised why these events were cancelled while the tailgater sponsored by Grace Hall was not. 
In other HPC news, the council is preparing a proposal to make student government a per­manent resident of the Lafor­tune Student Center. In the new Lafortune occupancy contract student organizations are refered to as "tenants" and must re-sign the contract annually. 
The HPC is also regulating the service of the "Buzz Bus" begin­ning this weekend. A brief dis­cussion clarified the policy that students will be picked up at 8 off-campus locations but will not be permitted to get off at bar stops. 
Fire 
continuedfrom page 1 
9:30 a.m. and fumes spread from burning cables and other materials. 
The fire was put out he said, adding:"We don't know why they (the missing miners) didn't come up." They may have been over­come by the fumes "or were trapped some way," he said. 
Hill said all of the miners known to have died were in the vicinity of the fire, but he did not know if they were engaged in the welding operation or what was being welded. He said the fire broke out on the 15th level of the No. 2 shaft. 
Eight rescue teams went un­derground, Hill said. 
"The fumes spread through the working areas of the No. 2 shaft," Hill said, and he believed the fatal gases were carbon monoxide or carbon dioxide. 
South Africa's mines depend on black miners who are re­garded as migrant workers. Fac­tional fighting at the all-maiP. hostels in which the workers live claimed more than I00 lives in the first six months of the year. 
Weare 
. . 
wtnrung. 

INFORMATION MEETING 
U"'-'ity of. Nolte Dame 
Foreign StudyPrograms 
Jerusalem 


Lecture and Slides with 
james Fleming, Professor of Holy Land Geography and Archaeology at Tantur 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
Wednesday, September 17, 1986 6:30p.m. ETS Theater, Basement Level Center for Continuing Education 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT 
ORGANIZATION 
First General Meeting 
Wednesday, September 17 
7:00pm 
in NEW International Student Lounge 
2nd Floor LaFortune 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 
AMERICAN 

,fCANCER
• SOCIETY~ 

IRISH GARDENS 
"The SYR Headquarters" We have new low prices­come in and take advantage of our weekend specials! Don't forget to order flowers for your weekend dates and dances. 
UNCLES' IRISH ,UI 
4609Grape Rd. JMS Plaza 
277 56
Mishawaka -80 
LARGE SCREEN T.V. THURSDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL PITCHERS $2.50 MIXED DRINK 75¢ 
LYONS HALL Voll,eyball Tournament 
for 
LOGAN CENTER 
:$' 
-~ 
Sign-ups in both dining halls. Tuesdays and Wednesdays at dinner time. 
Tqurnament dates: Sept. 19 &. Sept. 21 
$9.00/team: 6 players. at least 2 female 
' . --~ ~ 
. 
Daniloff case which provoked many question marks in the hostages' minds." 
The three captives were "com­paring what the (U.S.) govern­ment did in the 'Daniloff' case with what it is doing for them," the statement said. 
"Are not we Americans?" asked the letter which bore Jacobsen's name. 
Islamic Jil,ad, which espouses the Shiite fundamentalism of Iran's Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, has demanded that 17 comrades jailed in Kuwait for bombing the U.S. and French embassies in 1983 be freed in return for the hostages. Kuwait refuses. 
The latest Islamic Jihad state­ment called on Americans to pressure the Reagan administra­tion into altering its stand of refusing negotiations, and so "put a happy ending to the (ordeal of the) hostages." 
Daniloff, Moscow correspon­dent ofU.S. News & World Report magazine, was released in cus­tody of the U.S. embassy on Friday after 13 days in prison. 
~~­
~£ ,h.~ ~­
The Observer/Mike Moran
Sewing up summer 
A close-knit friendship is woven between Pam and Gigi basked in summer's neeting Pam Deluzo and Gigi Junkins as they sew sunshine. on the quad yesterday. Like many students, 



The Observer 
Wednesday, September 17, 1986-pageS 
Sports Briefs 
The Saint Mary's tennis team downed Goshen by a 7-2 score in recent action. Singles winners for the Belles included Jennifer Block, Shaun Boyd, Charlene Szajko, Kim Drahota and Jane Schnell and Erin Flynn in a pair of exhibition matches. Doubles victories for Saint Mary's were grabbed by the teams ofBlock-Kate McDevitt, Boyd-Sandy Hicky, Drahota­ButTy Hinz and Kelly Seppi-Lynda Cipowski in an exhibition contest. Deatails will appear in tomorrow's Observer. -The Observer 
A meeting for the N[}oSMC Sailing Club has been scheduled for tonight at 6:30 at the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Mem­bers are reminded to bring dues and prospective members are welcome. Further information may be obtained by con­tacting Tony Fink at I 082. -The Observer 
The SAB has announced that 300 tickets for Saturday's Notre Dame-Michigan State football game in East Lansing. Mich., will be on sale through a lottery system. Registration for the lottery will be held at the Ticket Stub in the basement of Lafortune today from 2:30-4:45 p.m. and student identi­fication is required for each registration. The lottery will take place tomorrow and distribution will be held Friday. Maximum four ID's per person. -The Observer 
The South Bend YWCA is sponsoring a Run Jane Run five­and 10-kilometer race at Saint Mary's tomorrow at 5:30 p.m. A fun walk will take place at the same time, and registration may be done on race day at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
In American League action last night. Boston swept a doubleheader from Milwaukee last night 2-I and 9-3, Texas defeated Oakland I 0-6, New York beat Baltimore 8-1, and Seattle trounced Chicago 7-0. It was Minnesota over Cleveland 7-3, Toronto over Detroit 6-4, and California over Kansas City 6-5. 
Over in the National League, New York beat St. Louis 4-2, San t"rancisco defeated San Diego 4-I and Montreal beat Chicago 4-I. It was Philadelphia over Pittsburgh 9-5, Houston over Cincinnati 6-I, and Atlanta over Los Angeles 3-I. 

Notre Dame flanker Tim Brown jumps over a pile in action against Michigan last week. Notre Dame leaped into the AP Top-20 this week because of its strong showing. Details on the AP Poll appear on page 8. 
ND falls to Illinois and Miami in weekend women's tennis play 
By SHEILA HOROX 
Sports Writer 
Amidst the activities of the football weekend, the Notre Dame women's tennis team was preoccupied with the task of hosting Illinois and Miami (Ohio) to open its 1986 fall season. 
The Irish, however, were upended by both teams, and the loss to Illinois was particularly difficult since every year it seems Illinois is able to squeak by Notre Dame in the close matches. This year proved to be no different as the nemising lllini beat the Irish, 5-3. 
All three Notre Dame victories came in singles play. Michelle Dasso, the No. I singles player, defeated Stacey Knollef, 6-3, 6­
2. Alice Lohrer outlasted Carie Costigano 6-4, 2-6, 6-4, and co­captain Tammy Schmidt crushed Astrid Eichner 6-0, 6-2. 
Stephanie Tolstedt lost a tough three set match to Sandra Goern, 6-3, I -6, 3-6. Natalie Illig lost to Susie Stout 1-6, 1-6 and Resa Kelly was defeated by Loren Smolensky 1-6, 2-6. 
Tied 3-3 after the singles matches, the Irish hopes of a vic­tory inevitably rested on the out­come of the doubles matches, where Notre Dame must send out three new doubles teams onto the court. 
The team of lllig-Lohrer were beaten by Eichner-Knollef 2-6, 2­6, and Schmidt-Sullivan, playing at the No.3 doubles position, lost to Stout-Costigano 1-6, 5-7. The top team of Dasso-Tolstedt, after splitting the first two sets with Daw-Goern. did not play a decid­ing set because Illinois had already clinched the meet. 
On Saturday, the Irish squared off against Miami. probably the strongest opposition on their schedule. Miami won eight of nine matches. Sophomore Illig registered the lone Irish win by defeating Jane Filus 3-6, 6-2, 6­
3. The match boosted Illig's con­fidence after a disappointing loss Friday to Illinois' Stout. 
"Against Illinois," she said, "I wasn't into the match, I didn't have any concentration. The loss was mental so I decided to get my act together against Miami." 
To counter the rining shots of Filus, Illig was instructed to be patient. try and slow the pace of the match, and not attempt to out-gun her opponent. The ad­vice netted Illig a three-set win. 
Dasso and Tolstedt played well in close matches that ended in defeat. Dasso's 7-5, 6-4 loss could easily have gone her way, as could Tolstedt's 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 deafeat to Jill Joslin. 
lhe lJhsert·t•r '\otre l>J.mt· otfill' lotJtt·Ll 1111 tht· rlunl fluor of LJiortunt ~lllllt·nt I t'llll'r. .l<<l'P" 'l.i"otinl.ill\l'rll"ng trom 'I J 111 unul 1 p m \Iondo~\ lhrt1u~h I rtdJ.\ I hl' ( Jhst·rr·t•r "'JuH \1Jn 'otfit t l11t Jtn.l on the.: 1h1nl flour tlf IIJ~~Jr ( olkgt· ( crlCcr •.l( l crh (. fJ,... Ifl< "' trf Hll I.! ~f) p (1J unl!J o\ r OJ 'Ion dJ\ thllll);:h I ndJ\ lkJdiHH t••r Ill ,r d.t\ ll.l''itlcd.. ,.. ~rIll \II l JJ..,...Ifil'lh mu,lhcprt:pJH.I ntht·rmpcr'tHlclrln m.ul < hJf)!l"I'IOlt:lli'Pl'fh\t"lhJrJl 
tl'f-' l'f llJ\ 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPINGWOROPROCESSING. CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordprocessing resumes. etc. Typeset quality. 287-9024. 
Wordprocessl ng-Typing 272-8827 
Driver needed to deliver the Observer. This Is a paid poslllon. Must be avail­able from 11 a.m. lo 1 p.m. Monday and Wednesday. Apply at lhe Obser­ver, 3rd floor LaFortune. or call 2339. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST a pair of Sletson wire reading glasses In a brown case. I have not done any homework since I lost them 8-29. Call Mark at 234-8568 Will make It worth your effort. 
Lost:STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS. Lost during Mich. game In secllon 32. II found, be honest and please call 3176.REWARD!! 
Lost: NO class ring man's: green. laceled slone anllqued gold lnlllals: 
E.J.H. class of '87 lost 9112 In north stadium lot reward call Erik Hickey al [1868 
IRREPLACEABLE! LOST MY SET OF SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS! LOST ON GREEN FIELD OR ON WAY TO THE GAME. CASH REWARD OF­FERED. IF FOUND CALL KAREN AT 277-5295 OR 272-1441. 
LOST: Black sweatshirt with coloured paint on front. Last seen al Alumni Club, Wednesday, Sept. 10. Reward. Call Marlene al 283-2628. 
FOUND GOLD SIGNET RING AT ACC SEPT. 4 CALL 2298 AND IDENTIFY 
FOR A 

BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms lor par­ents on football special weekends. Call 1-219-291-7153. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Responsible person to share 2bdrm apt. S 175.00 c eleclrlc. 232-9727 alter 4:30. 
WANTED 
Wanted: Volunleer Coach lorGymnas­tic club Team. Call Matt. 3311 
Need money? Driver needed for the Observer. This Is a paid poslllon. Mus I be available from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday and Wednesday. Apply at the Observer. 3rd floor LaFortune. or call 2339. 
RIDERS NEEDED TO CLEVELAND AND AKRON-CANTON AREA. LEAVE FRIDAY 9119 RETURN SUNDAY 91.11. CALL LEN AT 287-5903. 
TYPISTS-$500 weekly al home! Write: P.0. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 
SUNCHASE TOURS INC. Is currenlly seeking Campus Representatives to promote Winter and Spring Break Ski & Beach Trips. Earn unlimited com missions and FREE trips. Call toll free TODAY (or an application packet 1­800-321-5911. 
ABSOLUTELY DESPERATE FOR 4 PURDUE GA's! CALL ANNIE 284-5319. 
HELP ME FIND A RIDE TO MSU ON FRI. ABLE TO LEAVE FRI AFTER­NOON AND RETURN ANYTIME SUN. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE SMC-5240 
RIDE NEEDED TO MICH ST GAME. 1 PERSON; CAN LEAVE 11AM FRI: WILL SPLIT EXPENSES. MJ 5153. 
NO. 2 VOCALIST IN SEARCH OF BAND. NEW WAVE-PROGRESSIVE. CALL 284-5052 AFTER 10PM. 
Persons lnlerested In seeing the AMERICAN TOURISTER LUGGAGE GORILLA do his stuff. DON McLEOD -MIME. Thursday at 8 p.m. In Washing­ton Hall. $2 woND-SMC 10. 
HELP!! 3 GIRLS NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS FRIDAY. WILL SHARE COST. CALL CATHY 2914 OR LAURIE 4012. 
Help wanted part time. Computer retail slore. Call 277-5026. 
FOR SALE 
TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS. FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. 
Word processor lor sale. 272-8827. 
GREAT GOLF CLUBS AND BAG FOR SALE! 1.3.5 W'S; 3-9 I'S: PW & PUT­TER. CALL ERIC AT 1758. 
EXTERNAL DRIVE lor Macintosh lor sale. 400K 272-3317 
Apple lie. Monitor and added pro­grams. Great condlllon-good price. Call 3268 
Steve 

Advanced tickets to DON McLEOD ­THE WORLD'S FOREMOST MODERN 
MIME. Thursday. Sept. 18 at 8 p.m. in 
Washington Hall. Tickets available at the Center lor Social Concerns (to reserve call 239-5319). 
5 CUBIC FOOT REFRIGERATOR, WHITE,33" HIGH, HAS STORAGE SPACE IN DOOR AND FREEZER WITH ICE CUBE TRAYS. $100. WILL DELIVER. 259-2014. 
TICKETS 
ND-MSU TICKETS: BEST OFFER 404­292-7211 AFTER 6 PM. 
Wanted GA 's lor Purdue and Alrforce games. Willing to pay BIG Bucks call 2266. 
I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE llckets desperately! Call Mike at 283-1655. 
$$ HELP! I NEED 5 TIX FOR SMU GAME! PLEASE CALL CAROL 277­8732 
HELP!! I NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX FOR MY LITTLE BRO e BUDDIE. PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT X4667. THANKS! 
I NEED GA'S FOR MICH ST & ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
HELP! I t>ave an obnoxious Spartan friend who thinks lhat Michigan State Is going to beat Noire Dame lhls weekend. I need a tlckel lo the game to prove him wrong. In facl, If I can find 2 or 3 or 4, my friends and I can all prove him wrong. Call Lisa al 2595. 
Two handsome, suave, dashing, and humble MN men seek llx to the MSU game. Call us at 3374 and earn our eternal gratitude. 
HELP! I NEED 6 GA'S FOR EITHER AIR FORCE OR S.M.U.! CALL X-4605 ASK FOR TOM! 
NEED PURDUE TIX 
TOM 287-4831 
JIM 289-3482 
Lost:STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS. Lost during Mich. game In secllon 32. II found, be honest and call 3176. REWARD!! 
NEED two PURDUE GA's. Will TRADE (Air Force GA 's) or pay cash Caii·Mike at 277-3786. 
I need PURDUE Tlx! Willing to ex­change or pay cash. Leave message -Pete 2546. 
My sister sold my SMU and LSU tick­ets. I need them for an alumni so I am willing lo pay. Call Mike al 283-2647 
Need 1 Purdue Ilk stud or GA call John at x2990 
I need 2 Pitt GA's! Please call right away-3268...Steve 
Who played the werewolf In THE HOWLING? DON McLEOD -MIME. Thursday, Sept. 18 at 8 p.m. In Wash­Ington Hall. $2 woND-SMC 10. $4 Gen­eral Public. 

CLASS OF 1987!!! SENIOR INFORMAL SIGNUPS!! Wed. & Thurs., Sept. 17 & 18 2-5 p.m. Lafortune basement Infor­mal scheduled for weekend of October 3-5 In Chicago, and limited space 
1

available. so stgn up today 11 ' 
SEPT. 14-DILLON HALL-KAPS BE­COMES A WOMAN!! 
I WANT ICE CREAM! 
MALE & FEMALE MODELS NEEDED FOR PROFESSIONAL HAIR & BEAUTY SHOW SUN.. 9-21, ON CAMPUS. CALL SUE FORSYTH AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT AT 9 A.M. SATURDAY 9-20. 
21 AND OVER??? INTERESTED IN WORKING FALLFEST BEER GAR­DENS .... MANDATORY MEETING THURS.SEPT 18 HAGGAR CTR SMC 7PM! 
NortiT coast resldenls: Need to share ride to Cleveland-Akron this weekend. Call JR at 1384 
SALES CLERK, PART TIME EVENINGS AND WEEK-ENDS FOR "THE PEACOCK," A WOMAN'S AP­PAREL STORE IN NORTH VILLAGE MALL. APPLY TO MRS. ARNOLD IN THAT STORE, PLEASE. 
Scott from Dillon, I loved your party and want desperately to meel you someplace quiet and cozy. Love, Amy 
LEATHER & LACE...we are the ones your mother warned you about!! 
TO HIS COY MISTRESS I'm sure we can find a better way to be fun together than on newsprint al lunchllme­whaddya think? 
Thanks for lhe hug. 
NO MANAGEMENT CLUB PIZZA AND MOVIE lonlght at 5 In the Flenner Hall basement Old members, new members, and non-members are all welcome. 
Kent J.-Who's afraid of the big bad MOUSE? Have cheese,wlll !ravel to MSU;don't worry,! won't step oul of llne(and this Is no trap!) Alt. 12.AS I 
Wanted: 2 G.A.'s & 2 stud. lor any home game. Call John 4078 
DESPERATELY need two Purdue GAs for parents. Will Pay BIG BUCKS. Call Mike at 1563. 
HELP!!! I desperately need 2 GA's or student tlx to the NO-PURDUE game If money talks, please call either 283­3618 or 283-2239 and ask lor Jenny or Kathy!!! 
2 Purdue G.A. TIX!! Will exchange lor 2 Pit TIX! Call 3887, or 3520 
NEED 2GA PITT TICKETS CALL 312­684-8326 COLLECT 
I've got 2 GA's to Air Force. Penn Sl.. and SMU. I'm looking to trade any of these pairs lor 2 Purdue GA's. Call Kevin 1466 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE. CALL SHARON 284-4346. 
PERSONALS 
STUDENTS!!-Purchase your class books at PANDORA'S and SAVE SS!! New1Jsed books, BOUGHT & SOLD. 3 Day Service on textbook orders. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS. 937 So. Bend Ave. ph. 233-2342. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Driver needed to deliver the Observer. This Is a paid position. Must be avail­able from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Monday and Wednesday. Apply al the Obser­ver, 3rd floor LaFortune or call 2339. 
MEN INTERESTED IN EXPERIENCING LIFE IN A BENEDICTINE MONASTERY DURING FALL BREAK -CALL BR. MARK. 239-6187 
A big thank you to the ticket-takers at Gate 17 lor the Michigan game. I would have missed the biggest game of my college career without you. Thank you again. 
The Observer Wednesday, September 17, 1986 -page 6 
New York lefthander approaches save mark 
Associated Press one in Yankees· history, blanking the Boston Red Sox 4-0 on July 
NEW YORK -Dave Righetti, 4, 1983, his last season as a ori~inally a reluctant reliever, starter. He won 14 games that has a chance to write bullpen his­year, but when bullpen ace tory this season. Goose Oossage signed with San 
When Righetti earned his 40th Diego as a free agent after the save of the season Monday night season, Righetti was drafted for in the New York Yankees' 5-3 vic­the Yankees' short relief role. tory over Baltimore, he became He was not thrilled by the as­only the fourth reliever -and the signment but accepted it first left-hancler -to reach 40 producing five victories and 31 saves in a season. With 18 games saves in his first season in 1984 remaining, he needs six to break and winning 12 and saving 29 the record of 45 saves by Dan last year. Quisenberry of the Kansas City Royals. This year, Righetti struggled at 
"''d be lying if I said I wasn't the start. blowing nine of his first thinking about (the record)," Rig­26 save opportunities. In one hetti said after throwing two particularly galling outing, he shutout innings against the surrendered a bases-loaded, Orioles. "But right now, I look at two-out game-tying home run to it as a no-hitter in the fifth or Toronto's George Bell in the bot­sixth inning. There's quite a w;ys tom of the ninth inning. When to go." the umpire tossed a new ball to 
New York reliever Dave Righetti points at a 
Righetti would know all about him, he nung it over the rightstrikeout victim earlier this season. A story no-hitters. He pitched the last field fence in frustration. 
Irish face Northern Illinois tonight behind Beetel's fine goalkeeping 
· By MARGOT MACHECA After convincingly defeating "A goalie must be positive and Sport.~ Writer Valparaiso in its first game of the alert even when the game is season, Notre Dame dropped being played on the other end of
211 

As the Notre Dame women's two matches in a row. Despite the field. I have learned that con­field hockey team begins its the losses, however, Beetel says sistency and communication 
rebuilding season, much of the the team is still confident and with my teammates are two im­pressure and attention falls on excited about the rest of the portant qualities for a goalie," ex­
18 and OVER NIGHT! the shoulders of junior goalie season. plained Beetel. Thursday &Friday 
M.J. Beetel. "Since most of the girls have She is ready for the challenge After playing in a reserve role waited a few years to play, we of the season and knows that the 
for the past two seasons, Beetel are all psyched for the matches team is wi.th her.We give it to you earned the starting postion for and the opportunity to contribute "We are all very close on the 


Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2om Thursday 
9pm -3om Friday 
~0(\ co~ $1.00 off entr~tnce fee 
259·1900 
ATTENTION 
Registered N.D. Organizations 
Student Government Funding Appeals DueWEDNESDAY Sept. 17 Applications available in Office of Student Activities 3rd Floor, LaFortune 
i 

the Irish this year. to the team," she said. team and we work together. We 
So far this season, the Irish Playing back-up to graduated are competitive for playing time, have tallied a record of 1-2, with goalie Patti Gallagher for two but it is good competition that one loss coming at the hands of seasons, Beetel has gained ex-makes each one of us better," Big Ten power Michigan this past perience and confidence in the she said. weekend. Attempting to even its net. After three games this season, slate, the team travels to Nor­"Patti always helped, encour-Beetel has 39 saves, while allow­thern llinois for a match begin­aged and inspired M.J.," noted ing only seven goals. Lindenfeld ning at 7 p.m. today. Coach Jill Lindenfeld. could not be more pleased with 
the play of her previously inex­perienced goalie. "M.J. has been the most pleas­ing surprise so far this season,"
Sally's Stitchery 
she said. "Having never started a varsity game before, she has been incredible. M.J. came back this fall in excellent physical con­
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, 
dition and has a tremendously positive attitude."
Cross Stitch, and accessories 
Beetel. supported by her team­mates, hopes to ch;;llk up a few more wins for the Irish against Northern Illinois, Ohio and Kent
4219 Grape Road 277-6403 
State before facing another Big Ten opponent Purdue. 
·~~l 
DUN & BRADSTREET~ 
Corporation 
will present an informal presentation 
Wed., Sept. 24 7pm-9pm 
Upper Lounge ofUniversity Club 
All students invited All majors and undergrads 
Reception to follow Refreshments to be served 
I 
I I·. 

-~-­

Gary Larson 

Zeto Kevin Walsh 
INSTRUCTIONS RlUN~V€R AGENrOOt Fl£:~Eli..LANCE '{OV MOST NorA~Ak' 
J)ISCRETION IS THE' 

ANI) APPREHENSION Or OFF­100 tNqvtsmve. 
~AME' OF THE' GA"\E. 

CAMI'VS PART"'t'ti\IG MINORS. 

KNIGHTS 
ACROSS

Men's hairstyling 
1 Kind of bag 

272-1691 
Ill~~~~N~ @,%...:.......... . . ... ·.;. 
!CLUB 
Wed: 
Tastes Great or Less Filling? 

YOU DECIDE !!! Miller Night $.90 
Thurs: 


Fri: 
64 Dreadful 65 Kind of· bag

~ 71-2 
66 Copycats 

Start the weekend off right (must be 21) 
A~~ Weekend ;r'$.50 Drafts Fri. and Sat. Nights 

5 Aspect 9 Compressing 
device 14 Molten rock 15 School: abbr. 16 Spectral 17 Partly open 18 Actress 
Anderson
L[of5 
19 Pick up an 
option 20 Large barrel 
Dentists 

recommend 
21 Steel supports 23 Prize 25 Not so much 26 Unaffected 28 Magnetic 
induction units 

90f. 

33 Gun sounds 36 Useless 38 Civil wrong 39 Certain 
Africans 41 Goddess of fertility 
43 Norse god 44 Trailer 
for short 46 Presbyter 47 Abominate 49 Apply ointment 
old style 51 Object of 
aversion 53 Nearly 57 Elucidates 62 Affirm 
confidently 63 Mme. Curie 
67 Kind of exam 68 Verve 69 Doles 70 Sunbeams 71 Auction word 
DOWN 1 Frosted as 
cake 2 Indian rulers 3 Nautical call 4 Sailing ship 

The Cellar is 
SAB RECORD STORE 
Only they know the difference. 

"'1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 9/11/86
All Rights Reserved 
5 Sausage 6 Religious 
picture 7 Hung loosely 8 Roman official 9 Purplish red 
10 Ogle 11 lt. river 12 Bearing 13 Benches 22 -Park, Colo. 24 Orient 27 Holding device 29 Deadlocks 30 Nobleman 31 Johnson is 
a comic 32 Mob follower 33 Like tame 
horses 
34 Geological 48 Pressure 57 Moslem 
angle 50 Art frames scholar 35 Leave out 52 Warmth 58 Mane site 37 Reposed 54 Convex 59 Waste 40 Bar legally molding allowance 42 Snitch 55 Of a bristle 60 Ireland 45 White wine 56 Course 61 Salver 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
MEA DID I SCSISPAl
0 L L A I N T R A 0 L G A A L E S P R I A M F A I R ~H E L 0 R S B U T T 0 N 

rti AMl E L R I N G E D 
COB MARr-!-A TERRE 
·····-S A L D 0 N A A P 0 D
.........
E L EIC T S SEAT T L E -R 0 T E ERA 
OAMEIUXCAMI'' AS
A R I A P I A N 0 E D D A I N N S 0 L D E N N E A T S 0 N E R E S T S T A M E 
9/17/86 
we·re having a sale to make it worth finding us I 
Most albums & tapes: $6.49 We"ll get your CD"s for onl g $13.99 . Maxell XLII 90: $21/10 TDK SA90: $19/10 
Seorts 

The Notre Dame volleyball team lost its match against 19th-ranked Western Mic-
Irish lose to Western Michigan despite impressive performance 
higan last night. Brian O'Gara has all the details in his story below. 
By BRIAN O'GARA 
Sports writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team dropped a dramatic, hard­fought match last night in the ACC Pit to a powerful, 19th­ranked Western Michigan squad, but the young team came away with a wealth of experience. 
"I am very pleased with our play," said Coach Art Lambert "but disappointed that we didn't win. We did some really good things out there, but made some critical errors as well. These will go away in time -we're a young team." 
The evening's first game fea­tured a dramatic see-saw battle between the Irish and the Broncos. The two teams traded the lead four times and were tied at 9, I 0 and 13. The Broncos, playing with confidence and finesse at the net pulled away at the end to take the first game, 15-13. 
The two teams began game two in the same fashion, match­ing point for point and kill for kill. The Irish were gaining con­fidence with every point eager for an upset. But a series ofcom­munication breakdowns flus­tered the Irish, and Western Mic­higan quickly pulled away, 
Sooners still 1st 

running off six unanswered 
points and taking the second 
game, 15-7. 

With their backs to the wall, 
the Irish came out for game three 
to play perhaps their best game 
of the night. Three Western Mic­
higan mishaps and the powerful 
kills of sophomore Mary Kay Wal­
ler put the Irish on top for a quick 
6-1 lead. The Broncos showed 
their poise to stage a comeback 
and tie the game, 9-9, but the 
Irish dug down to run off their 
own streak of six unanswered 
points with well-orchestrated 
teamwork to win the third game 
15-9. 

This set the stage for the eve­
ning's final match, which had fhe crowd of386 on the edge of their seats. The teams battled to a 3-3 tie, but the Irish pulled ahead and reached a 9-6 lead on the splendid performance of fresh­man setter Taryn Collins. Collins had four quick sets to sop­homores Zanette Bennett and Mary Kay Waller as the Irish sought to pull even in games at two apiece. But the Irish put a few kills into the net and the Broncos took advantage, pulling to a 9-9 tie and quickly increas­ing their lead to 13-9. The young Irish would not break, however, and rallied behind Waller and 
Kathy Cunningham to a !3-!2 margin. In the end, despite their efforts, the Irish could not hold off Western Michigan and dropped the final game, 15-I 2. 
"We handled their multiple of­fense, which we rarely see, fairly well," said Lambert. "We're a young team. That last game we went with two freshmen, three sophomores and a junior. You don't get much younger than that." 
Sophomore Mary Kay Waller came up with one of her best performances in an Irish uniform and was an intimidating force at the net as she lead the teams with 16 kills, while freshman Kathy Cunningham added I 0. The team's other freshman, Col­lins, registered !3 sets and played a key role in games three and four. 
''I'm very pleased with Taryn," said Lambert "We moved her to setter and she performed very well." 
Next up for the improving Irish is a trip to the Bradley Tourna­ment this weekend. 
"We made ourselves felt tonight" concluded Coach Lam­bert. "We're getting better. Somebody down the line is going to pay." 

Irish take 20th spot in AP poll 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A grin flashed across the face of Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz Tuesday when he learned his once-beleaguered Fighting Irish had earned a national ranking. 
But just as quickly, he turned off his smile and took the pose that most polls don't matter. 
"Only the last one," he said. "l just want to be better than Mic­higan State." 
Michigan State is both Notre Dame's next opponent and the team the Irish displaced for the No. 20 spot in the weekly Asso­ciated Press college poll. 
Notre Dame edged into the na­tional rankings after a strong performance in a 24-23 loss to No. 3 Michigan. It was the first time the lrisll appeared in the rankings since the second week of last year, when Gerry Faust was tile coach. 
Notre Dame team captain Mike Kovaleski. who had 17 tackles against Michigan, brushed off the poll, too, despite his team­mates' hunger for recognition after the trauma of Faust's final year stole most of the 1985 headlines. 

"For me, ratings after the first game and the preseason don't really mean anything because you've got I0 games to play," Kovaleski said. "It's not how you begin the season, it's how you end." 
While Notre Dame was crack­ing the Top Twenty, Oklahoma, the defending national cham­pion, was retaining the No. I spot, despite being idle last Sat­urday. But the Sooners' margin over No. 2 Miami, Fla. shrunk. 
The Sooners received 55 of a possible 59 first-place votes and I, 175 of a possible I, 180 points from a nationwide panel of sports writers and broadcasters. 
Miami. which raised its record to 3-0 with a 6 1-I I rout over Texas Tech last Saturday, col­
lected one first-place vote and 1,099 points. Last week's first­place votes also were 55-l, but the point differential was I, 175­1,050. 
Michigan remained a distant third with 1,000 points, and was followed by the same three teams as a week ago -Alabama with 992 points, Penn State with 938 and Nebraska with 924. 
Washington, a 40-7 winner 
over Ohio State, vaulted from I 7th to seventh and knocked the Buckeyes out of the rankings. Penn State, Nebraska and Wash­ington each received one first­place vote. 
Louisiana State, which beat last week's No. 7 team, Texas A&'M, 35-I 7, climbed from I4th to eighth with 747 points and dropped the Aggies to 16th. 
Baylor, a 38-7 winner over Louisiana Tech, soared from I 2th to ninth with 629 points. Auburn, idle last Saturday, slipped from ninth to Ioth with 615 points. 

Wednesday, September 17, 1986-page 8 
Spartans play host for first road game 
Isn't it gredt, this poll i.>us;ness? 
Tile Irish played their hearts out Saturday, but lost the heartbreaker. Still, Notre Dame moved into 20th place in the Associated Press poll. At this rate, the last few seasons would have ended with top-I 0 ran kings. 
The key, of course, is that the Irish looked very good in losing by one point to a highly-ranked team. 
Notre Dame's opponent, Michigan State, also lost a tough one at Arizona State. So do not expect them to offer their sympathy by laying down in East Lansing. 

Rick Rietbrock 
Irish Items 

Tile two teams are moving down the same road at this particular time, but their paths will veer away from each other as a result of Saturday's meeting. 
Michigan State is expecting this year to be a big one. They began the season ranked 20th, and are considered strong finishers in the race for the Big Ten title. 
They obviously do not want to enter the Big Ten season with a losing record, which a loss to the Irish would assure. 
The Spartans are no longer a member of the Big Ten's basement bunch. Head Coach George Perles has done an outstandingjob rebuilding the football program and the Spar­tan faithful are expecting bowl bids to shower them at season's end. 
But the focus on Spartan centers on Lorenzo White. He led the nation in rushing last year with I, 908 yards, including 123 yards against the Irish. 
Last week, Arizona State held him to just 6 I yards on 24 carries, and Foge Fazio has to be praying for a similar per­formance from his defense. 
The problem with keying on White is that senior quarterback Dave Yarema is back from an injury that hampered him last year and put up the best numbers of his career last week. 
Middle linebacker Shane Bullough leads a tough defensive unit that hopes to hold the Irish in check a little better than their friends froni Ann Arbor did. 
The Irish had little reason to expect much from this season except for the fact that Lou Holtz was here and Gerry Faust was not. That quickly changed with one good showing. Now the talk is once again on which major bowl we should elect to play in. Fans will be fans. 
But regardless of the overreaction, the Irish did give reason for delusions with their play in the opener. Steve Beuerlein had one of his best days with 2 I completions. His play also reflects the fine job of the offensive line since Beuerlein had a lot of time to get rid of the ball. 
There are several factors that the Irish will have to overcome in order to defeat Michigan State. 
First they must guard against a letdown. The hoopla sur­rounding the first game, aiming for that opener for nine months, Lou Holtz' first appearance on the sidelines and the quality of the opponent all contributed to the luster of the game. 
But it wasjust one game and their attention must be turned to Michigan State. Good teams can beat patsies without being in the game, but good teams cannot beat other good teams that way. Michigan State is a good team. 
Second, this is the first road game of the year. No screaming student body to greet them. No natural grass. And in case you forgot, the Irish could not capture a single victory on the road last season. That trend must be changed. 
Third, the Irish are winless against teams from the state of Michigan this year. That cannot continue. 
This is an interesting game for both teams. The winner can go on to have a very successful season. The loser will have a longer road ahead, despite being a good team, in all likelihood. 
Even if then~ is such a thing as a good 0-2 football team, the Irish do not want to see if they can be it. If they do lose it will be interesting to see how far they move up the polls. 
•
Those who were sick of seeing Pinkett right, Pinkett left and Pinkett up the midole certainly had fun watching the Irish move the ball with a widely assorted package of plays. 
Using the !-formation as well as the single-back offense worked well for the Irish. But the show-stealer was the wi<>ll­bone, which had been anticipated since the arrival of Holtz. 
Steve Beuerlein looked very comfortable with the wishbone and made several nice last-second pitches that enabled the running backs to get around the corner. 
In the single-back offense, Mark Green moved outside to a receiver spot which he grew accustomed to last year to make several big gainers on screens. He showed, once a·gain, that he has good hands as well as having a productive day on the ground. 
The combination of these factors produced nine Notre Dame drives of 75, 66, 24, 66, 38, 65, 63 and 46 yards. The Irish were not forced to punt for the first time since the Air Force game of 1977. 

