Dome-opoly, page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 44 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

The Observer /Fred Dobie 
of friends arranged for the belly dancer to visit Gund at South Dining Hall Monday. 

Student Senate debates divestment proposal 
By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
The Student Senate, after nearly an hour of debate, voted to table discussion of recom­mending changes in Notre Dame's divestment policy at Hayes-Healy Monday night. 
Parietals, the agenda for the Student Mfairs Committee of the Board of Trustees, and RASTA were also discm~sed. 
Student Senator John Gar­diner proposed the Senate vote on a proposal to recommend divestment to the Board of Trustees. 
Hall President's Council Co­Chairperson Sheila O'Connor questioned the level of student concern on the issues of apar­theid and the possibility of divestment. "I just can't see how we should take this vote/' O'Connor said. Other leaders also voiced concern. 
"Has there been a serious ef­fort to get student opinion for this semester?" asked Coord­inator Bruce Lohman. 
"I feel that I don't represent the· students on this," said Senior Class President Dave Miklos. 
Gardiner replied that "as a representative body of stu­dents, we have a right to vote. 
qn it if the students are not well informed." 
"We've been elected by. the people and if we're all against divestment why don't we just vote on it," Gardiner said. 
Brian Holst, student senator, said, "We're here as the stu­dent leaders, let's lead them somewhere." 
Student Body President Mike Switek said that taking a vote on divestment to the Board of Trustees from the Student Sen­ate without broad student sup­port would be ineffectual. 
Gardiner said that divest­ment "is a moral issue (and) maybe we should go on our own ideas." 
"I think that's an elitist atti­tude," said Student Body Vice­President Don Montanaro. 
Gardiner said the Student Senate needed to do·something to rally the students. "The people are apathetic right now. Let's get rid of the student apathy," said Gardiner. 
Student Body Treasurer Rebecca Cussen motioned to table discussion of the divest­ment issue and "devote our­selves to a campaign to inform students." The motion was seconded by Montanaro. 
see DIVEST, page 4 

Former hostage pleads for release of other captives 
Associated Press Jacobsen, from Hunting­
ton Beach, Calif., was ex-
WIESBADEN, West Ger-amined at the Air Force many -David Jacobsen told hospital. Col. Charles Monday of his great joy in Maffet, hospital director, being released from more told a news conference that, than 17 months of captivity "although he is tired, our in-but said other Americans itial impression is that he is still held by Lebanese kid-physically in very good con-nappers "are in hell" and dition. It also seems that he must be set free. has dealt with the stresses 
Jacobsen, 55, arrived at of his captivity remarkably the U.S. military air base in well.': Wiesbaden one day after Maffet said the medical being freed by his Shiite evaluation would be com-Moslem captors. Anglican pleted in a few days. "Initial Church envoy Terry Waite evaluation did not reveal accompanied Jacobsen, who any evidence of physical was serving as administra-abuse," he said, adding that tor of the American Univer-Jacobsen was eating normal sity hospital in Beirut when foods and even had some he was abducted on May 28, wine. . 1985. "It appears he has lost 
Waite, who has negotiated very little weight. Again, he to free the hostages since is fit." the colonel said. "He last year, said he would keep has had no medication since on seeking the release offive he's been here." other Americans who are Jacobsen's family is to ar­among 19 foreigners still rive today. missing in Lebanon. In an emotional statement 

They include Terry Ander-soon after arrival, he said son, chief Middle East cor-his happiness was greatly respondent of The Associ-diminished by the continued ated Press, and Thomas captivity of the others. Sutherland, acting dean of agriculture at the univer-"The best things in life are c;ey, who also have been held free," he said, "and, by God, smce early 1985.1 they are.'' 
--~----------~------------------' 


Parties vie for U.S. Senate control 
Associated Press 
The candidates submitted their case to the voters Monday in the tense struggle for control of the Senate, the shining prize in Tuesday's elections to pick the nation's 100th Congress and three dozen governors. 
President Reagan played his role as Chief Campaigner to the end, stumping for GOP candi­dates in two western states in a bid to keep the Senate from falling into hostile Democratic hands in his final two years in office. 
Visiting Nevada for GOP sen­ate candidate Jim Santini, the president said, "It's time we got the facts out about Jim's op­ponent. I don't think the fiercely independent people of Nevada want as their senator a tax-and-spend liberal who is against a balanced budget amendment.'' 

Then it was on to Costa Mesa, Calif., where the president. holstered his partisan rhetoric in favor of a sentimental speech marking the end of what he termed "the last cam­paign." The real issue, he said, · is "that future that all of us want: a future of prosperity, .of freedom for the individual; above all, a future where America is safe and secure." 
Leadersof both parties in the House of Representatives made their final forays of the nation's costliest mid-term 
·campaign and one of the nas­tiest. Rep. Guy Vander Jagt of Michigan, who chairs the Re­publican congressional cam­paign committee, headed for Maryland, Ohio, Michigan, Texas and North Carolina. His Democratic counterpart, Rep. Tony Coelho of California, had a stop in Annapolis, Md. on his schedule. · · 
Most of the attention nation-
see ELECI'ION, page 4 


Grants instituted for A/E students 
By LISA DAVISON News Staff 
The John J. Reilly Scholar­ship Program has been in­stituted for students in their fifth year of the five-year Arts and Letters! Engineering cur­riculum. 
Students entering the second semester of their fourth year of the A-E Program are auto­matically considered for the scholarship. A group of faculty members and administrators involved with the AE Program will select the Reilly Scholars. Those selected will be an­nounced annually in the spring, said McKim. "To become a Reilly Scholar is purely aca­demic, but to get the scholar­ship involves a need factor," said Vaughn McKim, associate director of the Reilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values. 
"The decision is based on academic performance for the last fo~ years," he said. Then, the chosen Reilly Scholars are 
-
evaluated on the basis of finan­cial need to determine if they qualify for a scholarship, ac­cording to McKim. "It is cru­cial to submit the F AF," he said, adding, "They need this record at the financial aid of­fice.'' 
There is no specific limit on the number of scholarships available, he said. "Nothing is cut and dried. We want to find as many deserving students as possible. The idea is to reward 
see A/E, page 3 


The Observer 
In Brief 
The names of the four Notre Dame students arrested at the Halloween party at 617 St. Peter St. Friday night were released Monday. James E. Dowd, 20, Grace Hall, was arrested on charges of selling alcoholic beverages without a permit, according to Lt. Rick Kilgore, public information officer at the South Bend Police Department. Hugh J. Wade, 20, Cavanaugh Hall, and Xavier Y. Zang, 21, 54631 Irish Way, were both arrested on charges of resisting law enforcement agents and public intoxication, said Kilgore. John G. Klinge, 21, 617 N. St. Peter St., was arrested on charges of violating the city's anti-noise ordinance, said Kilgore. -The Observer 
They're picking on the regents at the University of Colorado. Angry about tuition increases, students created the "Dial-a-Regent" program, urging others to call board members to voice their opposition. One student paid the $817 tuition in quarters. Students :;ay the legislature is their next target. -The Observer 
Christian missionaries were rarely seized and eaten on impulse by savage tribes, contrary to myth, according to a University of Pennsylvania researcher. Dead relatives or enemy captives were much more likely fare. ''The taboo comes with who you eat and how you eat them," said the researcher. "You couldn't just eat anybody."-Associated Press 
Nancy 'Reagan's personal maid had munitions smug­gling charges against her dropped Monday in Richmond, Va. Anita Sanabria Castelo, 45, was arrested after federal investigators found 70 cases of .22-caliber ammunition aboard a Paraguayan freighter docked at Richmond's Deepwater Terminal. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"How to Conduct a Successful Mail Campaign" will be presented by Paul Reynolds of the Career and Placement Services office tonight at 6:30 in 124 Hayes Healy Center. The talk will be repeated Wednesday night at the same time and location. All interested students are invited to attend. -The Observer 
A coffeehouse sponsored by the Overseas Development Network will be held tonight from 8 to 11 at the Center for Social Concerns. Nicarguan and Tanzanian coffee will be served while the student band of Rossi-Bower-Stevens­Griffy will supply entertainment. -The Observer 
An aerobathon for the United Way campaign will be sponsored by the Hall Presidents' Council on Saturday, Nov. 22 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Registration for the event will be held today, Wednesday and Thursday in the dining halls. Forms also will be available from hall presidents. 
-The Observer 


Weather 
Singin' those South Bend Blues. It will 
be partly sunny and very cool today with the high in the middle 40s. Increasing cloudiness with a chance of light rain tonight. Cool with the low in the upper 30s with a 50 percent chance of rain. A 60 percent chance of rain is likey Wed­nesday with very cool temperatures in 

the middle 40s. The Observer 

• 
• Design Editor ......... Alice Kroeger Design Assistant. Michael 'Moj' Mojica Layout Staff ....... Kathy Behrmann Typesetters . .......... Shawn Sexton News Editor .•........... Jim Riley Copy Editor . ..•....... Karen Webb 
.................. Margie Kersten Sports Copy Editor. ..•... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor .• Tie Wimmer Viewpoint Layout . ..... Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor ..... Tie Wimmer Accent Layout .......... Carey Gels Typists ............... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ...... Alison Pivonka SMC Day Editor . . Theresa Harrington Ad Design .......... Sharon Emmite Photograph_er . .......... Fred Dobie 

Tile Obstrnr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Obstner is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Obstner, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Obstner is a member of Tilt Allodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
l. 
Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 2 


~atriotic politicking more exercise in marketing than governing 

Today is election day and for the candidates 
seeking the contested gubernatorial and con­
gressional positions, it marks the end of frenetic 
hand-shaking, smile-flashing campaigning. 
Politics is, in the final analysis, a matter of selling one's self. The winners will be those Salesmen shrewd enough to capture public opinion in support of their individual com­modities. 
Ronald Reagan was one such winner, a man politically astute enough to gauge what would sell, design his product to meet these specifi­cations and then peddle his brand of American patriotism to an eager constituency. 
In the midst of a nation suffering from the malaise of the Iranian hostage crisis, Reagan tailored his campaign to evoke images of Amer­ican glory and strength. After all, America was a big seller; one look at the country's euphoria when a bunch of American kids beat the Rus­sians in the 1980 Winter Olympics hockey final indicated the emotion such a campaign would tap. Americans were winners again, and the public loved it. 
· And Reagan, the personification of such flag­waving fervor, was also a winner. His political philosophy, his ideology, his specific economic plans in the campaign were eclipsed by his patriotic message. Riding the wave of nationalism to victory, Ronald Reagan the pres­ident became secondary to Ronald Reagan the image. 
The "coattail effect" is a term describing the power of a President's election momentum in sweeping other candidates in his party to vic­tory in other offices. When applied to Reagan, this phenomenon has applications far beyond the scope of Capitol Hill. 
Because it is based more in successful mar­keting techniques than in issue politics, the in­fluence of Reagan's brand of politicking naturally spilled far beyond the political arena, washing over the entire consumer market and dying it red, white and blue. 
One need only look at the vast array of prod­ucts packaged in patriotic wrapping to see validation of Reagan's success. Chevrolet preaches "The pride is back, Born in America"; Coke makes the consumer a part of the flag with its "Red, White and You" slogan; Miller Beer is "made the American way, Born and Brewed in the U.S.A." 
Even the audio and visual media are jumping on Reagan's Old Glory bandwagon. Bruce Springsteen's "Born in the USA" featured the backdrop of the Stars and Stripes and conveyed the image of a hard-working, all-American "everyman." national packaging would probably have sold few albums during the l960s, when the American flag was more frequently seen adorning the seat of protestors' jeans than the album covers of popular artists, but in the Reagan '80s, patriotism sells, and so did the album. 


A more extreme version of this trend, the contemporary Rambo movies are essentially more of the same. Rambo, the quintessential American power figure, avenges American losses during the Vietnam War. Once again, the 1 public bought the entire patriotic package. .II Rambo toys topped Christmas lists of kids who had never even heard of the Vietnam War; par­ents, who had heard the negative side all too often, bought the toys willingly. 

On a recent trip to New Orleans, I saw a larger than life statue of "Ronnie Rambo" from a 1986 Mardi Gras float. The figure, clad in camouflage and wielding a semi-automatic ma­chine gun, struck me as significant not so much in its representation of Reagan's military proclivities, but in its merging of a fictional character from the American cinema and the President of the United States. The statue moves Reagan out of the arena of government and into the mythic realm of folklore; he has become a red, white and blue draped figurehead. 
Perhaps that's just good politicking. After all, it does produce a "winner." 
GRACE HALL DEBATES 


'JKOnAS noR:£ 80C'LE'JY 
prese.nts 

"DtSS£NT lN TK£ CHURCH.: Th)() P£RSPt:cTIV:ESII 
by 

R.ALPH M.c;'LN£R.NY-Dtrector, Jacque.s M.arttatn Ce.nter 8 p.m 'Joda.y a.tui 
:Jt'LC~ nccoRn'LCX s.J. O'Brie-n Professor of 'Jheo~y 8 p.m. November 5 both speake-rs a.t La.J"ortu.ne Li-ttle. The.ater 

The Observer Tuesday, November 4, 1986 -page 3 



Law program instituted in, London
S. African ambassador 
By CHRIS JULKA simply cannot be matched in from Great Britain, Italy and

sworn in for new post 
Copy Editor the United States. London was Japan." the only site considered for the 
The Notre Dame Law School, program, he said. The master of laws program Associated Press Reagan after a talent search at its center in London, has in­The Graduate Program will has been in existence for onethat focused on black candi­
stituted a master of laws pro­be headquartered at the Notre year. It is expected to attractWASHINGTON -Edward dates, The goal was to drive gram in international and com­Dame London Law Centre, at students interested in careersPerkins, the black diplomat home, in a personal way, the parative hlw. 7 Albemarle Street, in the in legal education, government sworn in Monday as U.S. U.S. dislike for apartheid, The pilot program, which Mayfair district of London, ac­service or the practice of lawambassador to South Africa, the country's racial separa­currently enrolls nine students, cording to a brochure dis­in an international setting, ac­said he felt "good will" tion system. 
has received the approval of tributed by the Notre Dame cording to the brochure. 
toward all the people of that 
the American Bar Association Law School. The site is in close country but vowed to take Perkins appointment and the University's Academic proximity to the research libra­The 19-member faculty, ac­carry with him America's sailed through the Senate, Council, according to Profes­ries, universities, courts, cording to the brochure, is com­"intolerance of racial apart­where he was hailed by both sor Joseph Bauer, associate Houses of Parliament, and posed of American, British,
ness." Republicans and Democrats 
dean of the Notre Dame Law lawyers' offices and chambers and European academicians''All Americans share the as eminently qualified for School. which comprise "legal Lon­same goals," Perkins told a the post, and Secretary of 
It is the only postgraduate don." and practitioners, includingstanding-room-only crowd State George Shultz on Mon­program offered abroad by an The center itself houses Professor W.A. West, an En­at his swearing-in ceremony day praised Perkins as a 
American law school, accor­several classrooms, offices, glish barrister who is the foun­at the State Department. "truly courageous profes­ding to Notre Dame Law School and a small library. According der of the law degree program "The American people have sional diplomat." Perkins Dean David Link. to Bauer, the center is not af­and the director of the Notreforcefully expressed their said his goal was to repre­Link said that the master of filiated with any English uni­Dame Graduate Program. Aabhorrence of apartheid and sent "all Americans" in his laws program is essential to versity, but is entirely con­program involving interna­their desire for a foreign new post. 
Notre Dame's development as trolled and operated by Notre tional law with the participa­policy that works to a research law school. "Fifty­Dame. tion of law professors from the facilitate peaceful change in Nevertheless, Perkins 
seven of the 176 accredited EP.stern Bloc is a theoretical
South Africa." said that as a member of a American law schools have According to the brochure, possibility, Bauer said. 
Perkins, a 20-year-veteran America's black minority, 
postgraduate offerings, includ­the master of laws program is of the U.S. agency for Inter­he will have special em­ing all of the leading law limited to 20 students who have "Dean Link has been pushing national Development and pathy for both the black schools," Link said. received a degree in law from this program for the last half­the State Department, was majority and the white Bauer said a graduate law a recognized law school. "None dozen years," Bauer said.
selected by President minority in South Africa. 
program was established in of the nine students currently Bauer guided the program London, because "London af­enrolled in the program have a through a 6-month examination ~··············································· fords unique opportunities in prior degree from Notre Dame. period by the ABA and the Uni­
terms of library resources, fac­All of them are graduates of versity before its approval . ulty resources and attractive­other universities," Bauer Since 1968, Notre Dame has

Can't Get a Date? ••••••• 
ness for graduate students." said. He added, "Of these nine offered a full-year London Law He added, London possesses re­students, five come from the Centre program as part of its
• sources and facilities pertain­continental United States, one sequence of study for the juris 
•
Neither can we--ing to the study of law which from Puerto Rico, and one each doctor degree. 


That's why we're LEXIS computer aids law research 
By SEAN HICKEY a learning center room devoted for their own purposes, such as 
having a 
News staff entirely to LEXIS. "Mead even seminars or lectures. installed the telephone lines," Learning how to use the Notre Dame's Kredge Law which are necessary for the ter­databaseterminal is not too dif­
• Library began t: e 1986-87 minals to gain access to the ficult, Jacobs said. "It is de­school year with a ~,;owerful Dayton-centered database, signed for in-user use. ThereCOMPUTER new computer-age tool that will Jacobs said. are special commands, and it greatly assist law st\ .. ·ents, ac-Previously, the law library takes a relatively long time to cording to Head Law Librarian had one terminal which stu­become sophisticated with it, Roger Jacobs. dents had to pay to use. "Now but the students can use it for 
The tool is LEXIS, and it pro­there are terminals for a learning purposes after three vides the instant researching greater number of students and or four hours," he added. In ad­
• capability for research that multiple opportunities for stu­dition, there are tax and ac­could not, without tremendous dents to learn databases," counting databases on LEXIS time consumption, be com­Jacobs said. for use in the business school. 
pleted manually, he said. ''Ordinarily commercial With the addition of the 
"LEXIS is a full text rates are $125 an hour, but for LEXIS terminals comes an im­database of court opinions, us it's free," said Jacobs. With provement in Notre Dame's statutes, law review articles the new terminals, there is un­rank in per capita use com­

DANCE 
It's like the Dating Game .... 
and other material available to limited access to the database, pared to other law schools. : lawyers and law students including access on Saturday "Currently we're in the top
but 
: across the country," said and Sunday. five," he said. 
• Jacobs. By introducing law students "LEXIS provides to the stu­Sta" tuned to this same Bat Page,: The Mead Data Company is at universities around the dent body of the law school an 
~ • : the parent company of LEXIS country to LEXIS, Mead hopes opportunity to substantially
HI:~~-=-IJ3Same Bat Paper for more detazls. • and pioneered its concept. the future lawyers will choose improve their legal research Mead donated ten terminals their system, Jacobs said. In skills and develop and continue and six printers to the law li­addition, the LEXIS company Notre Dame's position in the 
brary as well as furniture for can utilize the learning center forefront of activities." 

AlE 
continued from page 1 
and acknowledge outstanding students." 
John D. Reilly has contrib­uted a $500,000 endowment for the scholar-ship fund in honor of his father. A self-made businessman, the younger Reilly graduated from the NE Program at Notre Dame. "He wanted to make the kind of edu­cation he had more available to other students," McKim said. 
"There are longstanding con­cerns within engineering edu­cation as to how to combine 
technological education with liberal education," McKim 
r
'··············································· said. Notre Dame's solution is 
4. f' 
to offer the five-year NE pro­gram. 
There are many advantages for those in the NE Program, said McKim. They receive a bachelor of science degree in engineering and a bachelor of arts degree in liberal arts. Also, as members of the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, they have the option of going to Lon­don. "However, the drawback is cost," explains McKim. "Not only do they have another year of tuition, but they are forfeit­ing a year of work as an en­gineer." 
Therefore, the Reilly fund concentrates on assisting the student in his fifth year. "The scholarship fund will be a reward and will attract highly qualified engineering students into the program," McKim says. 
"To become a Reilly Scholar is to achieve a certain status," McKim said. "This will also in­crease recognition for the pro­gram." 


Correction 
The name of a Notre Dame student in the front page photograph of Monday's Ob­server was misspelled. The correct spelling of his name is John Padgett. 
An inaccurate news item concerning the meeting on parietals revision appeared in the In Brief column of Friday's Observer. The brief was mistakenly recopied from an earlier edi­tion. 

The Observer 

right) Jim Grace, Mike Millen and John Stoepler prepare to make their case.
makes a point about gun control at the Grace Hall Debates. The opposition team of (left to 
Hasenfus to appeal for mercy from tribunal 
Associated Press 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua ­Former U.S. Attorney General Griffin Bell, who is assisting in the defense of American mer­cenary Eugene Hasenfus, said Monday the prisoner will ap­peal to the People's Tribunal for mercy. 
Bell told a news conference that Hasenfus, charged with terrorism, will make a state­ment to the revolutionary tribunal Tuesday afternoon and added: 
"We hope it will help him by mitigating the charges against him. We hope it will cause the Sandinista, the Nicaraguan, government, to be more merci­ful." 
"As for what he will plead to, that's up in the air," Bell said, "but he has thrown himself on the mercy of the court." 
Bell, from Atlanta, returned to Nicaragua on Sunday. He said he had not been able to talk directly to Hasenfus. 


SMC Boards question editors at meeting 
ly SHARON HEGG 
rews Staff 

At Monday night's joint meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance and Pro­gramming Board several editors of The Observer were present to answer questions posed by members of the stu­dent government. 
Kathleen Daily, public rela­tions commissioner questioned why the big events at Saint Mary's always seem to get pub­lished the day after they occur instead of generating interest beforehand. 
"If you want an event cov­ered you should call The Obser­ver beforehand so we can get a reporter to cover the story," said News Editor Tripp Baltz. The availability of the person to be interviewed and the time and amount of effort needed are all taken into account, ac­cording to Editor-in-Chief Joe Murphy. 
"What kind of control does Notre Dame have over The Ob­server and who do you answer to?" asked Patty Curran, senior class president. Murphy answered, "We answer to the students. The moment we slant news or lose our objectivity the students will get upset. We strive for professionalism." 
"There is no University, Col­

lege or administrative control over the content," added Margie Kersten, Saint Mary's editor. 
Rebecca Hetland, Christian life commissioner, voiced an­other concern, "I think people know you exist but don't know how to approach getting things in The Observer." Hetland sug­gested that the situation be clarified by putting instruc­tions in writing. 
Kersten added, "If Saint Mary's students do want to get involved with the paper, they can ask me, and I will point them in the right direction." 
All the editors present stressed the importance of in­volvement of students "espe­cially from Saint Mary's," said Viewpoint Editor Scott Bearby. "We only have one regular viewpoint columnist from Saint Mary's. We'd like to see more Saint Mary's (students) get in­volved." 
In other news, Sarah Cook, vice president of student af­fairs, announced that the Pro­gramming Board will show St. Elmo's Fire Friday and Satur­day night at 7:30 and 10. The Programming Board is also sponsoring Brian Huskey Nov. 10 at 8 p.m. in the Chameleon Room. 
Cook discussed several events that will take place Oct. 27 through Nov. 14 for the United Way campaign. Aseries of movies will be shown at Car­roll Hall including The Way We Were on Nov. 9 at 3 p.m.; Rebel Without a Cause on Nov. 10 at 9 p.m.; and Grease, Nov. 11 at 9p.m. 
Cook said the thrust of this 
*~*************** 
! 
i* 
*
* 
! * 
~ 
*
! * 
* * 
* 
* 

. 
!*run sponsored by: * 





; g ~!
! Hardrn!f. :: !
I • 

* :
! Ad paid for by ND Student Government * 
********************************** 

A~ ESf i*
WTM 

*
* 
Trident Naval Society ! * 
24 HOUR RUN ! 
* 
for Special Olympics ; 
* 
1 pm Friday, Nov. 7 -* 1 pm Saturday, Nov 8 * Pledges accepted Tuesday, Nov 4 * at Dining Halls. * * 
year's campaign is awareness on what United Way is about. 
Jeanne Heller, student body president, said Gloria Chel­miniak, director of health ser­vices, would like to start a pro­gram to drive Saint Mary's students to the hospital and to doctor appointments when needed. "She thinks it's a ser­vice we should provide to the students,'' said Heller. Student government voted unani­mously to support the proposed service. 
Heller also announced that student government will con­duct a survey on Nov. 11 about student government aware­ness. She said this will help de­termine the level of awareness and how effective the student government publicity has been. The survey will also take suggestions for speakers for the next lecture series. 
**************** 
3il·~ i 
Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 4 

Divest 

continuedfrom page 1 
The motion failed. Gardiner then proposed another motion to table discussion of divest­ment until next week. The mo­tion was passed unanimously. 
In other business, the Senate unanimously approved the agenda for the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees. 
Prepared by Lohman, the agenda included a review of the parietals issue. "We are not, however, going to the Board of Trustees for the parietals issue," said Lohman. 
The agenda also included a discussion with foreign stu­dents, reflection on student leadership and trustee respon­sibility and a preview of reports for the spring meeting. 
According to Lohman, so far there will be two spring reports. One dealing with residentiality in cooperation with the Hall President's Coun­cil and the other on financial aid and admissions considera­tions. 
"We are using this opportu­nity to just tell them what's going on," said Switek of the agenda. 
Also, the Senate discussed the alternatives in revising the parietals proposal. The pro­posed changes in parietals was set aside for discussion until after fall break in a closed meeting of the Campus Life Council on October 8. 
According to Holst, a hard line of redefining what parie­tals is or a middle grouhd of moderate changes could be taken. Holst indicated he would prefer the hard line approach saying, "I'm willing to risk it. 
"Just because you spent all night in a girl's room never warrants suspension or dismis­sal," Holst said. 
"With parietals, it's all or nothing," said Tim Salmon, Carroll Hall president. 
"My feeling is that the Ad­ministration is not going to give up suspension or dismissal as a viable alternative to parietals violations," said Lohman. 
Maria Cintron, judicial co­ordinator, said it was very dif­ficult to understand all the is­sues surrounding parietals and disciplinary action. 
"The decisions that are made are very fair decisions," Cintron said. "We don't have all the facts on the case," she added. 
In old business, Switek re­ported on his meeting with Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson concern­ing the RASTA incident. 
"To me, it seemed pretty fair," Switek said. "They were dropped from being abolished to just suspended for just a year," he added. 
David Kinkopf was in atten­dance for his Senate meeting as freshman advisary council representative. 
The final straw polls seemed


Election 
to swirl in the wind rather than continuedfrom page 1 blow in any discernible direc­
tion. One new survey had the ally was focused on the Senate race for the Georgia Senate races. Republicans hold a 53-47 seat tightening, another said edge in the current Senate, but the Republican incumbent was are defending 22 of the 34 seats lengthening his lead. on the ballot. 
Democrats said their best 

Democrats said they would chances for gains are in gain more than enough seats to Maryland and Nevada, where end six years of Republican • Republican incumbents are rule. The GOP sounded less retiring, and Florida, where confident about predicting the GOP Sen. Paula Hawkins is outcome. trailing. 

212-0312 211·1691 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo f-t•r• tile Rov•l Bro..e S••ta••••• C.at• S.e • taa I• ••••••• ... Not Ho•r• 
I "LR.Up ~..,_~, 
PART TIME SALES HELP WANTED AT GOODWILL PLAZA STORE 
on Howard & Eddy at.fivepoints. 
FLEXIBLE HOURS, WEEKLYPAY, AND STORE DISCOUNT. 
Call Mrs. Daughtry 234-1661 
_ ___!_~_j_-t_4_~-·----------­


\1ie\Y~_O_i_n_t__________~fu~esday~,Nov~embe~r4,19~ss-p~ages 
Theodore's fills gap in 1;1ndergrad social life 
l 
j 
1 
l 
, ~ 
l 
~ , 
1 
.,1 
"There's nothing to do at Notre Dame on weekends." 
That complaint had been a common one here at Notre Dame for the past few years. The alcohol policy restricted the hall parties that used to be plentiful and the South Bend police department has made off-campus parties an endan­gered species. 
Eric M. Bergamo 
here's to future ·days 
For those over 21, the solution has been easy. Just go out to Bridget's or to Senior Bar. 
For those under 21, the solution isn't so easy. 
Shut off from the bars, minors have no place to go regularly and socialize with their friends. No place to dance and j~st have fun. 
In the past, dances have been held outside on the Stepan baskeball courts or in one of the dining halls. That helps to drive the one point home. Under­graduates had no place to call their own. No place where they could go to 


Letter ignored gospel in attacking pacifism 
Dear Editor: 
In response to Dean Robert Wad­dick's letter of Oct. 19, we feel com­pelled to respond to his rash and un­founded opinions. First, Waddick believes that ROTC students are volun­teers in the same sense that Peace Corps and Holy Cross Associates volun­teer. True, those who join ROTC do volunteer for military training and ser­vice, but in doing so they receive a college education and opportunities for future employment. Those who volun­teer for the Peace Corps or Holy Cross Associates receive only the experience and satisfaction that comes from ser­ving humanity. 
Second, Waddick contradicts him­self. He first states that "Commis­sioned officers... can have a positive influence if trained in a Catholic uni­
"hang out," dance and meet their friends. 
That is, until Theodore's opened. 
Theodore's is the new undergraduate club situated on the second floor of LaFortune. Theodore's opened this past Friday night and if the number of students who attended then is any indi­cation, Theodore's is a welcome addi­tion to Notre Dame. 
I was invited to attend a "sneak preview" of Theodore's last Wednes­day evening and was, to say the least, very impressed with how it looked. The furniture was classy and added to the atmosphere of an elegant nightclub. The sound system was the best I had ever heard on campus. The service was friendly and helpful. This was class. 
I talked with Chris Nye, the architect 
who designed the renovation of LaFor­
tune, who told me that the plans for an 
undergraduate club had begun four 
years ago, even before the alcohol 
policy. The time put into tl:~ose plans 
was evident by JUst looking around 
Theodore's. 
I went Friday night to the grand opening of Theodore's with just a slight gnawing uncertainty that the student reception to this new club would be cool. 
versity." Later in the same paragraph 
he states that it makes no difference if 
a warrior in time of war is Catholic or 
not. Does he mean that once war starts 
a soldier can forget his Catholic educa­
tion? Waddick seems to state that as 
long as you are defending your country, 
it makes no difference what values you 
impose upon the war. 
Third, Waddick slaps the faces of all 
those who see in the Gospel a call to 
pacifism by implying that either you 
fight in a war for your country or you 
are a coward. We would argue, and his­
tory has demonstrated, that those who 
oppose war and its. accompanying 
slaughter have displayed and continue 
to display a great deal of fortitude. As 
John Yoder states in his book 
"Nevertheless": " 'Thou shalt not kill' 
is as absolute, still immeasurably more 
human, more personalistic, more 
genuinely respom;ible than the compet­
itive absolute 'Thou shalt not let Uncle 
Sam down'." 
-4> 
We think it is sad that someone in 

THe GARBO OF8/RJJ5! /A/HATA F&ATHCR. IN 
YOUR. CAPIf•.• 600/J 
/.f)lq;).' TH/3F& rr15! 
7HI3F& IT. .. UNHI 
/""' . 

I was afraid that the students would decide that it just wouldn't be worth it. 
The crowd grew as the night rolled along until Theodore's was packed and rocking. Everybody was having fun dancing in what was now "their" place. The number of people there meant that Theodore's was a success. 
That excitement didn't slack off on Saturday. A live band performed to an­other packed house. ­
Theodore's will serve to fill a vacuum in the social life of those under 21. Good bands and some comedy acts have been lined up to perform at Theodore's. The club will also help to give campus rock bands a regular place to perform. It is a place to have fun. 
The complaints that there is nothing to do for those under 21 at Notre Dame will hopefully die down. 
Theodore's is by no means totally complete. They are still waiting for an oak bar that will go in a room along the north hall. The bar will be just lilte those found in off-campus bars. 
A lot of time was put into Theodore's by many people. These people all have the same idea: to provide those under 21 with a place to go. Congratulations to Joni Neal, Adele Lanan and Ciel Paul-


P.O.BoxQ 
such an influential position at Notre Dame as Waddick cannot express his view without insulting those who genuinely seek to end war. 
John Tanner 
Peter Jarret 

Moreau Seminary 
Lecture on sanctions comes at perfect time 
Dear Editor: 

For the first time in his administra­tion, Ronald Reagan has been overrid­den by Congress on a matter of foreign policy. Why did so many members of the House and Senate feel so strongly about the legislation imposing eco­nomic sanctions on South Africa? 
This Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall, Dr. William Minter will shed light on the issue of sanctions against South Africa and the divest­ment drive within the United States. Through the efforts of the Student Ac-
Garry Trudeau 
GOP! 
J.'U-MAKE­
yoU A

v&A... 
"" p
~ 

sen in Student Activities for putting their support into Theodore's. 
Much of the congratulations should also go to the student managers who ruri Theodore's. They have put the most time and effort into the club. Vince fill­lis, Tom Utter, Laurie Bink, Martine Beamon and their assistflnts put so much work into making Theodore's succesful. Every day I've gone into The Observer office and seen Willis in the Student Activities office waiting for a meeting. Believe me, your hard work is greatly appreciated. 
Only one thing bothered me at the opening of Theodore's. Some students were dancing on the tables, the chairs and the piano, which costs close to $7500. That furniture can't be replaced cheaply and such abuse of the club could be detrimental. Hopefully, the students will treat Theodore's with care. It is "their" place to go. With stu­dent input as to what they want to see at Theodore's, the club should be a very welcome success. 
Eric M. Bergamo is a junior govern­ment major and is a n;gular Viewpoint columnist. 
tivities Board, Notre Dame will have the privilege of hearing insights from the editor of Africa News Service con­cerning the impact of... the recently passed Congressional sanctions on South Africa. A good deal of hard­hitting politicking went into this legis­lation; now we will have an opportunity to understand just what it all means. 
Another aspect of the anti-apartheid movement in the United States has in­volved divestiture by universities and local governments from companies with links to South Africa. In light of the Nov. 14 Board of Trustees meeting at which this option will again be con­sidered for Notre Dame, it would be wise for all of us to hear Winter's presentation. With such a weighty deci­sion being made in our name, we ought to make every effort to understand fully its impact. 
I urge everyone to take advantage of this tremendous opportunity. 
Margarita Rose Chairperson-Anti-Apartheid Network 


Quote of the day 
"Democracy substitutes election by the incompetent many for ap­pointment by the corrupt few." 
George Bernard Shaw 
(1856-1950) 
"Maximsfor Revolutionists" 

General Board 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Managing Editor, ............... Kevin Becker Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Photography Manager .......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newsp~per published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of·Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Gtaphic Arts Manger . ......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views cif News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
• , • • , , 0 • o • • t f ' • ' 0 ~ 1 o , o I 1 • 
Accent 





From one dome to another... 
MARK MELLETT features writer 

A few years ·after graduating from Notre Dame In 1940, the current Secretary of Agriculture, Richard Lyng, entered politics at the local level. 
Licking envelopes and sweep­ing the cluttered floors of headquarters, he recalled, were his first responsibilities. Since that time Lyng's responslblities have grown. 
As a member ofthe President's Cabinet and head of the United States Department of Agricul­ture, he presently oversees the employment of more than 100,000 people and handles a budget of $40 billion. 

What brought you to Notre Dame back in the 19.30s7 
Oh my goodness! That was a long time ago. I lived In Califor­nia at the time. I finished high school and I was looking for the excitement of a school that had an active football team and all that. I suppose I hoped that I'd get a chance to play football al­though I wasn't any good In high school. Coming the long way from California was an exciting thing also. I can recall the pastor of my church was a great Notre Dame fan and he Influenced me a little bit. The Rockne era was still alive around then. 
What did you mi\Jor in? 
I majored In philosophy and took a commerce course. I got one of those degrees called a Ph.B. I don't know If they still have them anymore. It's a bac­helor of· philosophy In com­merce. I took a lot ofphilosophy. 
Did you participate In any ex· 
tracurricular activities? 
I wasn't very active In college. 
When I was In high school I was 
terribly active. I was president of· 
student body and played In the 
band and on the football team. . When I got to Notre Dame, I was kind of frightened. I wasn't sure I could keep up with all those kids from Catholic high schools who very much impressed me. I studied pretty hard particularly the first couple years I was there and I didn't get too Involved with school activities. I played a lot of Bridge and I did a lot of reading. What did you do after college? 
I went back to my father's seed and bean business Immediately after gradution In 1940 and then of course In 1941 Pearl Harbor came. and I went Into the service. I spent two and a half years In the South Pacific. I was at Guadalcanal and Bougainville. My father's business was a small farm supply and marketing busi­ness and after the war we began to specialize In seeds and dried beans. He died In 1949 when I was .31. So I took over then and I got my first taste of managing a business alone. We were suc­cessful. It was around then that I became chairman ofthe Repub­lican Central Committee of my county. 
,, 
When you enter 
politics at the local 
level you rarely begin 
by addressing the 
major Issues. You 
usually end up licking 
envelopes and sweep­
Ing the floors... ' ' 
What prompted you to enter politics? 
I became active, to be quite honest with you, because I'd done some work with the Cali­fornia State Association. I went to Sacramento and I became dis­couraged with what I saw In the way the government was func­tioning. Well, I thought If you weren't going to active you couldn't be critical. So I became 

Notre Dame graduate a.k.a. Secretary of Agriculture Richard Lyng. 
the story of Richard Lyng 
active In a deliberate sort of a way. When you enter politics at  Urugualan Round which includes over 74 countries. It was quite a  In what ways does your depart­ment concern itself with third  
the local level you rarely begin by addressing the m~or issues. You usually end up licking en­velops and sweeping the floors  thrill to be one of the delegates. I handled the agricultural negotiations and we were quite successful In getting a go-ahead  world nations? Here at the Department of Agriculture, we have an Office of International Cooperation and  
of headquarters. I did a little of  with negotiations on agriculture  Assistance. Through that office  
both.  I  also  was  fundralslng  on  an  international  basis.  I'm  we  offer  technical  and  educa­ 
chairman for a number of candi­ Chairman  of  the  Commodity  -tional assistance to developing  
dates. We're talking ofboth small  Credit Corporation and ot course  nations all  over  the world.  We  
and  large  campaigns.  Mostly  I'm a member of the President's  also have Public Law 480 which  
what I did was get the Republican  Cabinet. I'm also a member of  is a program for giving food and  
vote out during party organiza­ the Cabinet Council and a mem­ commodities for local currencies  
tion.  ber ofthe Economic Polley Coun­ to developing countries. This is  
cil.  called the Food for Peace Pro­ 
· When  did you  meet  Ronald  gram. It's about .30 years old. It's  
Reagan?  The Farm Bill that was passed  a hallmark in terms of aid pro­ 
In 1966, that's when he ran for  in 1985 has made U.S. farmers  grams.  We sell  or give non-fat  
governor  the  first time.  I  was  more  competitive  internation­ dry milk to countries like the Phll­ 
county chairman then. I think I  ally through a form of subsidy.  lipines or Mexico. The program  
met him at the State Committee.  What has been the reaction of  serves  literally dozens of third  
After  his  appointment  I  was  other countries to the subsidiz­ world  nations;  Africa  is  heavy  
named  to  the  California  State.  ing of U.S. farmers?  with  recipients,  what  with  Et­ 
Agricultural Department.  Countries who view our lower­ hopia and the Sudan.  
...  Ing of the support prices as sub­ 
What  were  your responsiblll·  sidizing will be very critical. We're  What does holding the posi­ 
ties?  trying to get at any problem In  tion of Secretary of Agriculture  
First I was deputy director and  the  negotiations  by  building  mean to you personally?  
not long after I was named direc­ some rules. We wouldn't like to  It's a great honor to be asked  
tor, which was the top job In the  be up against the unfair subsidiz­ to  serve  the  President  of the  
California Department ofAgricul­ Ing of other countries.  We of­ United States as a member of his  
ture.  I handled such things  as  fered to put our subsidies on the  Cabinet. It's a challenging oppor­ 
milk·  marketing,  meat  and  table  In  the  negotiations.  We  tunity to be given  a chance to  
poultry Inspection, and chemical  hope that as the years go by we  direct  an  organization like the  
registration.  It  was  a  big  can bring this under some sort  Department of Agriculture. It's a  
regulatory agency.  of control.  very fine organization with a long  
tradition  of  excellence.  It's  a  
And now what are your respon­ Since the  Soviet Union has  great honor.  
sibilities at the federal level?  refused  to purchase American  
The Federal Department of Agriculture Is a gigantic agency that has over 100,000 employees and a budget of over 40 billion dollars. It Includes such divers things as the forest service where we have 190 mil­lion acres of land In the United States and the -Food and Nutri­tion Service where we put out 12 billion dollars worth of food stamps and billions more for school lunches and other child nutrition programs. We handle International trade matters. Ijust got back from spending a week In Punta del Este, Uruguay, In negotiations for the new General Agreement of Tariff and Trade  wheat, what is going to be done with the surplus? We're plagued with a surplus of almost everything. We're dis­appointed that the Soviet Union did not live up to their agreement to purchase 4 mlllon tons of wheat during the year that ended on Sept. .30. They purchased over 6 million tons of corn and we're pleased about that. They had claimed that the reason they were not living up to the agree­ment was because our prices were not competitive. So we anounced on Aug. 1 a subsidy on the wheat that we did not pre­viously have with the Soviets. We haven't had any sales so we'll sell  Has the education you received at Notre Dame been es: sential to your success? In what ways has it benefitted you? My education at Notre Dame has been certainly helpful. Once in a while you wish you had been a better student and learned more. But the fact Is I remember a lot of things I learned at Notre Dame. Particularly, the whole blending together of a Catholic education In an atmosphere of vigorous Intellectual and physi­cal activity was very good for me. I made some friends that I con­tinue to have. This side of It Is very Important. The philosophy of life that Notre Dame espoused  
(GATT).  We  will  now  have the  It somewhere else.  Is a great value to me.  

-·------------------"
-


Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 6-7  
...it makes .a great Christmas gift. CHRIS SHANK Tio, creator of Dome-opoly, graduated from Saint Mary's with features writer a degree in marketing In 1984, went on to receive an MBA "''ll tell you what, I'll trade you degree, and Introduced her Stanford, Walsh, and Holy Cross game this year in both campus for the Senior Bar."  • OPOLY  

"Get outta here. You still own 
the Credit Union plus Morris Inn. 
If I gave you Senior Bar, I'd be 
paying a fortune when you put 
credits on 'em. Anyway, you're stuck in the Library studying for exams, while I hold a Procras­tination card. How much are you · willing to pay to get out of the 
Library now?" 
"Just roll the dice, buddy." 
Do you know the Notre Dame fight song? Could you be placed on Academic Probation? can you afford the Phone Bill or a Univer­sity Donation? Will you go on a Panty Raid to Regina Hall? 
Jennifer Tio makes all this pos­sible In Dome-opoly, the board game made just for those of us at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who live in the shadow of the Golden Dome. You don't have to be a multi-million-dollar-bank­account. benevolent philanthropist to buy halls for your favorite university, you just have to play the game. 
bookstores. She doesn't plan to retire on the sale of her new en­terprise, but does hope to break even by Christmas. 
Forming her own company, JTO Enterprises, Tio hired artists and printers, while working with other game companies, and as­sembled her product, Dome­opoly. Happy with sales thus far, Tio says that her entrepreneurial venture has been "quite a learn­ing experience," taking her 18 months to get It produced. 
The only complaints she has received are from people who ex­pected their hallowed halls somewhere on the board. But they must also consider that not all the streets and avenues ofAt­lantic City are in "that other game." 
Originally hailing from LaGrange Park, Ill., Tio now lives in Chicago, working for McMarketing Services Inc. in ad­vertising and sales promotion. "But Dome-opoly gives me something to do outside of my job. I can assemble the games together while I'm watching TV," she said. 



BANDAIDS 

and red shoelaces 


chitects had only two restrictions lngs on campus. The Infamous CATHY STACY -their projects had to be tempo­sprinkler system was the subject features wrlter rary and non-destructive -allow­ofMarcus McAllister's project. By ing them to be as outrageous as leashing a sprinkler to a tree with Stonehenge may be only a few they chose. Working in pairs, a "Beware of Sprinkler'' sign, he months old, but its mystic about 120 students designed translated a relationship com­supremacy on campus has and installed their transforma­mon to most students on 
already been challenged by the tions across campus. campus. The project was er\Joy­unique and somewhat bizarre able, McAllister said, because of projects of Prof. Kleinman's After evaluating a place with the freedom for expression and 
freshman architecture class. regard to Its building elements creativity. These "campus transforma­and natural setting. they were in­tions" began to appear in mid­structed to transfer either the Still climbing the bricks of the September -a gigantic Bandald positive or negative aspects of Band building are Mike Beaton's on the new Lafortune Center and the particular setting Into a and Doug Smith's red tape paper Ivy taped to the barren physical Installment. By crea­shoelaces. The inconsistency in stones of the Law School addi­tively representing their relation­the pattern of the bricks makes tion -but most of them remained ship to the campus in such a way, the back of the single building standing for only a day or two. the architects' opinions could look like two separate buildings. 
also be of significance to other By lacing the two different pat­

Emphatic students may have people. terns together, Beaton and noticed up to 60 ofthese creative The Implications ofmost ofthe Smith Intended to unify them concoctions, handmade in dif­projects were obvious -the and "re:Join" the building. These ferent fabrics -paper, rope and. hopes for a quick recovery for shoelaces are the last of the tape. According to Kleinman's Lafortune and the freshman projects on ' campus outline, the prospective ar-"traditionalization" of new build-but who knows what Is to follow? 
L--------------------------------------------------------------­

The Band building Is left In stitches by two first year architecture students. 

Tired of the old routine? 

II~~~~ Join 

~-Ihe OllsenB__ 
The Accent department is accepting applications for: 
-
• Features Copy Editor 
For Information contact Mary Jacoby at The Observer (239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune. 
So how did Jennifer Tio get her idea to work? "Itjust·happened­-really... Don't forget to say it makes a great Christmas gift." 
Christmas? Wait, here's a "Celebrate the end of exams" card. "Advance to Senior Bar and buy a round for the house. Pay $200." 
Oh, Nol "Go to the Library. Go directly to the Library. Do not pass Registration. Do not collect a $200. scholarship." 
Only a game? Dome-opoly seems like real life around here, under the Golden Dome. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 8 
' 
~111•




Sports Briefs 
.....IJJfll 

'l~lr~

Tickets for Sunday's men's and women's Blue-Gold bas­The ND judo club participated in the Wisconsin Judo ketball game are on sale now at the ACC. Prices are $2 Open Sunday. John Fox and Paul Jackson tied for fourth 

Calendar

for adults and $1 for students. Proceeds from the games in the men's middleweight division. Kathy Brienza took 
will go to Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. The women's game begiris at 6:30, followed by the men's game at 7:30. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Writers will have a meeting at The Observer offices in LaFortune tonight at 8. The subject of this meeting will be winter sports assaignments. -The Ob­server 
WVFI-AM 64 airs "Speaking of Sports" live tonight at 
10. Hosts Rudy Brandl, Frank Mastro, and Kevin McCor­mack welcome Irish pitchers Bryan Tucker and Mike Har­mon to discuss various topics, including baseball. NBA basketball, and Irish football. Call 239-6400 to participate in the discussion. -The Observer 
Off-campus hockey players should sign their name to the roster in the NVA office and call Mike Kirk (277-1280) or Dan Gendreau (272-3867) for further information. The deadlin is Friday. -The Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Do Club will begin practice tonight at 7:30 instead of 7 due to a conflict with fencing. =The Observer 

first and Sara Harty placed fourth in the women's lightweight division, Anne-Marie Reidy took fourth in the women's heavyweight division. And Charlie Hooks, coach of the club, won the master's heavyweight black belt divi­sion. -The Observer 
The ND water polo club will hold its final practise of the fall season tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. All members are encouraged to attend. For more information contact Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Interhall football equiptmentshould be returned to Gate 9 of the Stadium according to the following schedule. Today: 5:30 -Pangborn; 6 -Fisher; 6:30 -St. Ed's; 7 ­Carroll; 7:30 -Morrissey; 8:00 -Zahm. There is a late charge for a team per individual. -The Observer 
The Trident Naval $ociety of Notre Dame has_ organized a 24-hour runathon this Friday and Saturday on the Notre Dame campus for the purpose of raising funds for the International Special Olympics. -The Observer 
The Buffalo Bills fired Head Coach Hank Bullough yes­terday and replaced him with former Kansas City Chiefs' head coach Marv Levy. -Assocaited Press 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced the following dead­lines for upcoming events: 
Tomorrow is the deadline for the following NVA events: 
Hockey: 20-man rosters, in­terhall event, $35 entry fee and insurance consent forms re­quired. 
Basketball: interhall men's and women's, grad and club events are planned. 
Squash: student-faculty open tournament. Raquetball: mixed-doubles tournament. 
Table Tennis: singles tourn­ament open to students, staff and faculty. 
Swimming: 50-yard sprint tournament with head-to-head competition. 
In addition, a Nov. 14 dead­line has been announced for an upcoming Turkey Shoot. 
No advanced registration is required for a Nov. 11 Kayak Clinic at the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday , through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 ·......:rv;;iN"GYi'oFio.pA.oce.ssiila........ CALL DOLORES 277-8131.  ~-FO_R_R_EN_T~~ Two room lumlahed apt. prlvm en­trance utlllllea peld 288-0955 morn­lnga. Guam coming lor game nHd place to my? Sllverbrook Bed-Breaklutln Nllea. CIMn, qulal, reaaonable. 816­884-2323 evenlnga.  ~~__T_IC_K_H_S~ 2 ND-SMU GA'a 4 SALE; CALL 512­735-2184 . I NEED SMU. PENN ST GAa.272-6308 NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT £2174  NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL JIM 289-3482 I DESPERATELY NEED 4-8 USC TICK­ETSIIF I CAN'T GET THEM, I'M DEAD I PLEASE HELP! CALL CHRIS X2542 NEED PENN G.A.'5-CHRIS 1738 NEED 1 SMU STUDENT TIX CALL JOE £1888  ATTENTION ALL OFF-CAMPUS STU­DENTSII O.C. FORMAL TIX ON SALE WED., 1115 • THURS., 11!8 IN uFORTUNE (1al FLOOR) FROM 3:30 TO Spm S10COUPLE ANY QUESTIONS? CALL RACE 234­0882 R.E.M FANS We've got rare tunH and they're youra lor the prlca of one al­bum. HMr "Femme Fmla"  .For lhoM who under818nd, MARIA With everyday thet pe8Ha without -lng her, the INr growa from dHp lnalde Afraid that today Ia too late and yaal8rday w.. not aoon anough Still kHpln'a hope when lher8la no reaaon to belleva Doing averythlng that can be dona, but knowing that It Ia not enough Nothing compern to the hurt when you IOH before the light haa even begun Kap amlllng pretty lady  
iixP·e;n:···:rv;;iiia"··;;·eA.Vic'E:...cA'i:i: MRS. COKER, 233-7008. jii:£·ii·ev;··wA've·:·c-ussic-'L:··:rHe BEST STAFF IN THE WORLD, WSND RULES. (and by the way we're having  2 room efficiency prlvm entrance utlllllea peld 288-0955 morning• WANTED  NEEDS SMUTIX CALL JAY £2174 NEED ONE SMU TICKET .STUDENT OR GA -CALL 21185  I nHd SMU tlckat. Doug-2514 I NEED 8 PENN ST. G.A.'S. CALL TODD AT 1050. I NEED ANY PENN STATE TIX. CALL RICH AT 272-8923.  "Bandwagon" "While Tornado" "Voice of Harold" and more. Plua many favorltH LIVE. Moat atudlo quality on • TDK u-80 18pe. Only 57 ahopplng daya till ChrlatmHI Call the Hindu Love Goda at 2495 or 2550 and gat them before we run out.  Bowling Baii.Caka(a).Helnekln."Walk thla Way.''T-r tota.Satchel o'lun Mati8H.Dull,bor1ng Laon. All theM will be my 21at IH!ay lor the reet ot my llle.Thllnka guya,lor • greet nlght,grnt memorlea, and thanka Dava lor 18klng II eaey on me.  
• lund drive.) Nov 2 -11. Wordproceulng Call uVonne 287­11024 AIR FORCE IS RETURNING TICKET BOOKS ON WED 5 NOV. BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 5-7 PM. QUESTIONS CALL TOM £1888  want e rlde, buatar? The belgemoblle Ia on the road again, looking lor RIDERS ore RIDE to PURDUE the day of NOVEMBER 8, 1888. For more In­formation, or ciMrer lnlo~m~~tlon call Gertie, 284-5125.  NEED SMU GA'S AND STUDENT TX PAUL-2384 MEGA $BUCKS$ are awaiting the per­aon who will ull me 4 PENN ST GA'a lor my family ao I can coma home lor Chrlatm..l Call Andy at 1243.  NEED 2 SMU G.A.'S. CALL LAURIE 1254. NEED 2 PENNST STUDTIX CALL CHRIS 234-5807­NEED 10 PENNST TICKS MARIO 1173  JUNIORSIIJUNIORSIIJUNIORSII JUNIOR NITE AT MACRI'S WEDNESDAY, NOV. 5, 6-llpm -BE THEREIIIII $2.99 SANDWICH • SOUP SPECIAL -cOUPONS AT DDORII JUNIORSliJUNIORSIIJUNIORSII  Love&llahH, Jim PS.Crack 1-rulea COME JOIN USIII COME JOIN US FOR LUNCHIII Thureday, Nov. 8; 11 :3G-1 :30 at the Cenl8r lor Social Concern• Procnda to benefit BIG BROTHEFMIIG SISTER  
Want to !Iaten to the BEST BLUE'S BAND In South Bend? THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND le playing on WEDNESDAY at CHIP'S "C.uaa evan Domera get the BlUM aomellmH•.• "  FULL AND PART TIME WAITRESS' NEEDED. MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMITTY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 48801 COMPUTER STORE SEEKS RELI­ABLE PART-TIME HELP. NEAR  You want em, I got am. 1 atudent llckat lor SMU and PENN STATEIIBHI ollar. Jefl3178 HELPII HELPII I nMd PENN STATE nxs. Help me ahow Ma nd Pa thet my bro gon to the wrong achool. PENN ST. TIXS lor TODD at1310 or 1308  I NEED 2 SMU GA'a. CALL 239 5370 or 284 5105. THANKS. I nHd 1 Pann St. atu. Uc. SS Call Jon £2085 NEED 4 SMU GA'S Call RICH 1218  Are you running • o•o campelgn and nHd the halp of • powerful and ex~ rlenced Magic UMr? II ao call 4278 after 5 pm. SARG IS COMING! ................................. T ........................... .. SARG IS COMING!  HAMLIN HAULS IN THE HARDWARE Congrel8 on your debate ahowlng -your roomiH CONGRATULATIONS MARY  
- I LOST/FOUND I FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL TO IDENTIFY. 1412 FOUND: CALCULATOR IN 224 cus­HING. CALL DAN AT 1154. FOUND: Guy'a Swatch In D2 perking lot on 10.211-111. Call Mark at 4113 to claim. LOST-cLASS RINGIIIIII J.A.B 87 BLUE STONE WITH GOLD N.D. $100.00 REWARD CALL JOE 307W3101 loat: atudent l.d. card-SS£381-88­ CAMPUS. 277-5028. I NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO THIS WEEKEND. CALL TODDAT1050. THE BEIGEMOBILE TO PURDUE Ia IMvlng at high noon on Frldey, No­vamber 7, lnateed of 8 •• Nrller el818d. If you'd atlll like to ride along (return Saturday llflemooMivenlng) give Gertla e callat284-5125. Thllnka. Ride nHded to Naahvllla or B'hem lor T-Givlng call Tim 3308 DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND, SHARES. CALL STEVE AT 1087  I'm aaklng you nicely ­PIHM Mil me PSU tlx (atud. or GA) Call Mlchella B. at 4570 BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS need atud. or GA tlx lor SMUll Lat my backwood• buddlaa -• game I Call O.va at 32113 MOONSHINE to all who helpll BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGll THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST ... PLEASE HELP ME ... NEED 28 112 TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO...PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 OR 1352. BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX -CALL T J -283-1889  I GOT SMU GA'S. CALL THE DUDE, 232-8153. NEED 5 PENN ST GA'S BADII FRED 289-11225 need 4 SMU atud tlx-call4215 or 1708 HELPI I NEED 2SMU STUD OR GA'S • 4PENNGA'S. THERESA 4027. NEED PENN STATE GAl-CALl-283­3848. NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU CALL SHEILA 284-5250. PERSONALS  Look out Pollah boya • 2nd fl.couchM-Ihe won't do It lor S30,atlll ll'a Plglal'l bdeyiNo RoM,Tim Kempton le NOT In my living room,• hla nama Ia BILL.Hey South Quad,ll waantl bookbag,ll WAS a Wada.,. It definitely wee Herrmann-ahe couldnt mnd or walk,but ahe aure could ahout • aprlnti"Oh yHh?Well­uh ... "Don't bleed In Zlhm(thatla VERY wlcked),watch out lor Quaalmoto • pre-trial converalon,and happy bdeyiLove,your fellow Fallen Angela. Happy B-Dey JENNY HATRELD JENNY HATFIELDIII Iota of lova, the other women of REX QUOTE OF THE DAY: TOM, BEFORE I DIE, I WANT TO DO A STEWARDESS. JUST ONE.  REYNOLDSIIII on your Rol8ry achol­arahlp. "SEHR GUT GEMACHTI" Ob­Mrver lnnabruckare SENIOR TRIP T-SHIRTSI Call 3851 eoon Hungry? Call The YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: Monday -Thureday 5pm-12am; Friday Spm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm. FROMTHELOWESTLOWBACKTOT­HEHIGHESTHIGH Lat It b known that Botw'Jager Ia back In lo~m~~llon, having FINALLY aborted Suicide Mla­alon J12. Bitter friendly flak then enemy decaptlon and abuae.Maln181n Integrity. Welcome back to the lloc,Cmdr.TrueFrllnda  
3703. If found, pluM cell SuMn at 289-3847. LOST Friday night near Thllodore'a: black women• Guau watch with white lace call 34111 TO THE PERSON WHO TOOK THE FOOTBALL HELMET FROM STAN­FORD ON 1001: You can Ieiva II out­aide the door of 332 S18nlord anyllma.No qumlona aaked. LOST KONICA CAMERA AT 107 CAMPUS VIEW 1001.1F FOUND  WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY PERSONNEL $500 AN HOUR GUARANTEED YOUR RRST TWO WEEKS! FLEXIBLE NIGHT-TIME HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE­TWEEN 4:30PM AND II:OOPM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277-2151 FOR SALE  I NEED 1 PENN ST GA. WILL PAY BIG SSSI CALL TIM 3314. SMU. PENN ST. GA'a FOR SALE 277­02118 NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL JANICE 272-8919 CASH lor 2-3 GA or Stud Tix lor Pan­nSt2551 I nHd 2 Penn State GA'a Kelly 284­4455  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER • LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM, PROCTER • GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 -INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAMS: USA • CHILE. CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE).  ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS ARE BLUE IF I HAD A ROOMMATE SHE'D BE JUST LIKE YOU. HAPPY LATE (but not lor that I•• alncere) BIRTHDAY KAREN HALL. (lnateed of ro-, how about I give you • cookie?) LOVE, the one next door John J. Ia It ponlble to be 8'9 and atlll hava • amall ago? WADE AND HOMER-thanka a bunch lor the llowera. I'm ok, but ll'a herd being a FRB without my lova MIKEl Rernember ... CAESAR RULESI  HELP! I nMd a rlde to IU Bloomington thla -'lend. Will ahere coat. Call uurle 4012. FARLEY CALLING Thanka lor the ln­aplratlon,ENGLAND. WE DID ITIII We're walling lor you to make It lour. MI.. U. From the FINEST with lova. COMRADES! Coma one come all to tha next mHIIng of the Lillie Stevla Worland fan club. Meeting to be held In the Red Room of LaFortune Student C.nl8r. Workera of the world unital  
PLEASE CALL 284-lJ073. NO QUE5­TIONS ASKED. REWARDIII LOST: 8 KEYS ON A RING THAT SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED THEMII ANNETTE 284-4372 LOST: BLACK, RAY-BAN "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES. REWARDIII LOST FRIDAY AT THEODORES. ANNETTE 284-4372.  Ia It True You Can Buy JHpa lor $44 through the U.S. government ? Gat the facta today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext ?318 ................................................................ FOR SALE: 2 Round trlp UNITED LIMO ticket• to O'HARA $45-value lor $25. Call 232-8248.  NHd 4 SMU llx. Will pey top S I Call £3487 HAVE 4 SMU GAS NEED 4 PENN ST GAS CALL CHIEF £1838 NEED 2 SMU GA'S CALL 2288 I NEED 2 SMU GA'S. CALL CHRIS AT 2742  DESPERATE TEXAN WILL DO AL­MOST ANYTHING FOR 2 SMU TICK­ETS. -STU OR GA-CALL CAROLYN­3831 PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 808 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SS OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 1 ().5:30. 233­2342.  HEY CAPP MAJORS REMEMBER THE MEETING TODAY AT 7PM 210 O'SHAG BE THERE OCN HAll Repa pick-up lor: Lemena, Flaher, OH-cempua, end Badin. Tonight altar 8 pm Wedneaday. Due by Thuraday (11!8) et 8 pm.  MAGGIE, MARGRET, MAGS, MAG­GOT; Call har what you will, lt'a her blrthdayllll Call 4451 and tell Mlu O'Connor Happy Birthday. Lova, Jack'• n­glrllrland P.S.-No apiV.Zaolllalr lor • -'!. thla Ia your preunt. RIDE NEEDED TO MARQUETTE, OR CHICAGO NOV.7-9.WILL PAY GAS $.284-4130  

The Observer 
Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 9 

SMU falls 


AP Poll top three unbeaten, untied 
Associated Press AP Top 20 64-3 and Arizona State's 34-21 
The Top Twenty college football teams in The victory over Washington lifted Miami, Penn State and Mic­Associated Press poll, with first-place votes in paren­the Sun Devils, 7-0-1, into fifth theses, this season's records and total points. Pointshigan, the only three unbeaten based on 20-19-18-17 etc. Notre Dame opponents place with 921 points while the 
and untied teams in major­are italicized. Huskies fell to 13th. college football, held onto the 
1. Miami 8-o-o 1 , 153 Alabama rebounded from 
top three spots yesterday in 2. Penn State (4) 8-o-o 1,076 last week's 23-3 loss to Penn 3. Michigan (1) 8-0-0 1 ,053 
this week's Associated Press 4. Oklahoma 7-1-0 953 State and trounced Mississippi poll. 5. Arizona St. 7-0-1 921 
State 38-3. The Crimson Tide
6. Alabama 8-1-0 861
All three are 8-0 after 7. Nebraska 7-1-0 793 received 861 points in climbing weekend victories. 8. Texas A&M 7-1-0 740 
from eighth to sixth while the
9. Auburn 7-1-0 660
Oklahoma remained fourth 10. Arkansas 7-1-0 639 Bulldogs dropped out of the but Auburn and Washington 11. Ohio St. 7-2-0 535 rankings after a four-week
12. UCLA 6-2-0 500
fell several positions while 

13. Washington 6-2-0 477 stay.Arizona State jumped from 14. So. California 6-2-0 434 
Nebraska moved up from
15. N. Carolina St. 6-1-1 343
seventh to fifth. 16. Iowa 6-2-0 260 ninth to seventh with 793 pointsMiami, which defeated No. 20 17. Arizona 6-2-0 178 with a 38-0 rout of Kansas State 
18. LSU 5-2-0 154
Florida State, 41-23, and 19. Georgia 6-2-0 103 and Texas A&M vaulted from 
knocked the Seminoles out of 20. Clemson 6-2-0 56 lOth to eighth with 740 pointsthe Top Twenty, received 53 of after edging Southern Method­58 first-place votes and 1,153 of votes and 1,076 points following ist 39-35. a possible 1,160 points from a a 19-0 triumph over West Vir­Auburn suffered its first loss 
nationwide panel of sports writ­ginia. The other first-place bal­of the season, bowing to Florida ers and sportscasters. The Hur­lot went to Michigan, which 18-17 and dropping from fifth to 
ricanes are No. 1 for the sixth swamped Illinois 69-13 and ninth with 660 points.consecutive week. received 1,053 points. Arkansas, No. 13 last week,Penn State, which moved rounded out the Top Ten with 
into the runner-up spot a week Oklahoma, 7-1, totaled 953 639 points after trimming Rice Arizona running back David Adams breaks loose in last ago, received four first-place points after thrashing Kansas 45-14.
weekend's game against USC. Both teams are ranked in the Top 
20. Story at right. 
SMC soccer drops 2 games 
By JANE SHEA was good play by the seniors." Sports Writer The lone Saint Mary's goal was made by freshman Kathy 
The Saint Mary's soccer Revane, with an assist by soph­team lost two games last week omore Ellen Boyle. to Michigan State University "Michigan State is a very ag­and Kalamazoo College, drop­gressive and fast paced team ping its record to 5-10-1. and we could not hold on for 
Last Wednesday the Belles the entire game," said Akers. lost to the Spartans in East Last Friday the Belles lost on Lansing, Mich., by a score of the road to Kalamazoo College 6-1. by a score of 6-0. 
Saint Mary's stayed with "Kalamazoo is not that much Michigan State for the first 35 better than us,"said minutes of play and kept them Akers, "but they take advan­from scoring. tages of opportunies and are 
"It was an improvement very aggressive." from the last time we lost to The Belles' final game of the Michigan State," said Head season will be played today Coach John Akers, "and there against Hope College. 


Rams edge Bears on 50-yd. FG 
Associated Press Bears won 24-0 on the way rolling until the game broke 
to the Super Bowl champi­open in the third quarter. 
CHICAGO Mike onship. Fuller was making his Lansford's 50-yard field goal The teams erupted for second start of the season in with four seconds remaining four touchdowns in the third place of Jim McMahon, who last night lifted the Los An­quarter with seldom-used has an injured right
geles Rams to a 20-17 NFL running back Thomas shoulder. Oils got his third victory over the Chicago Sanders bolting for touch­starting assignment, replac­Bears. down runs of 10 and 34 yards ing veteran Steve 
It was Lansford's longest to give the Bears a 17-10 Bartkowski. field goal of the season and lead. The Rams tied it on 65­gave the Rams the victory yard scoring pass from Oils The Bears took a 3-0 lead despite a woeful6-for-25 per­to Ron Brown with 1:28 left on Kevin Butler's 30-yardformance by quarterback in the third period. field goal in the first quarter Steve Oils. Backup quarterbacks and the Rams tied it on 
The game was a rematch Steve Fuller of the Bears Lansford's 26-yard field goal of last year's NFC champi­and Oils of the Rams were with 9: 45 left in the third onship game which the unable to get either offense quarter. 

Good t1mes mean gett1ng together w1th good buddies and Budweiser. There's something about a couple of beers with fnends that makes for great camaradene. 
Beer IS meant to be enjoyed by adults socially. It is also the beverage of MODERATION. Good judgment should be used whenever you drink. 
Make sure "your drinking buddies are thinking buddies" and exercise good JUdgment. Especially if they drive! When they need a good friend 
think for them! Don't let them get behind the wheel -the outcome could be disastrous. 
At Anheuser-Busch, we are con­cerned about you. our valued customer. We support research, education and treatment programs aimed at combating alcoholism and alcohol abuse. 
To obtain your personal key ring guide to responsible beer drinking. send $1.50 which includes postage and handling to: 
MODERATION KEY RING 
W. 1614 Riverside 
Spokane. WA 99201· 


ND opens swim season with loss to Denison 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Roger Miro, and freshman Ed Sports Writer Veome. McManus placed third in the 
Despite a 119-98 loss to Divi­200-yard butterfly with a sion III power Denison, Notre lifetime best time of 2:03.61, Dame head coach Tim Welsh and Bohdan placed second in called his men's swim team's the 200-yard backstroke and season-opening meet last Sat­fourth in the 1000-yard frees­urday "very exciting." tyle. Veome, in the first dual 
"We had some lifetime best meet of his life, won the one­times and some freshmen win­meter diving competition and ning events. It was an encour­placed third in three-meter aging meet that we'd like to diving. have won," said Welsh. "If Other individual winners for we're still swimming like this the Irish included freshman in January, I won't be happy. William J ackoboice in the 200­But for the beginning of No­yard freestyle and the 400-yard vember, it's great." freestyle relay team of David 
Individuals praised by Welsh Thoman, Mark Lowney, Steve included junior Pat McManus, Coffey, and Erick Hendrick­sophomores Eric Bodhan and son. 

Century 
continuedfrom page 12 
was designed to be a club in which people could exercise in groups. And as the name "Cen­tury Club" implies, a person would be given a certificate when they had completed 100 miles. 
But the thought of 100 miles -161 kilometers, 400 laps around a quarter-mile track, 7200 lengths of a 25-yard pool, the distance from the Golden Dome to Rush Street -is enough to discourage more than it would challenge. 
So the focus was changed to offer more oportunities for dif­ferent levels of ability. Steady, consistent workouts are em­phasized, and the pledge pro­vides the motivation. 
But the name "Century Club" sticks. Derengoski said that as NVA considered chang­ing the name of the program last semester, interest in the club suddenly increased to over 60 members. The name was left unchanged. 
Though down to 29 members, Derengoski predicts that inter­est will pick up in the winter as students look for outside moti­vation in their workouts. 

The Observer Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 10 

Rugby Club ends season with three wins 
1\l:ter its first four games, the Notre Dame Rugby Club seemed hard-pressed to have a season even approaching the success of last year's 9-1 squad. But a three game winning streak has given the Irish new life going into the spring season. 
In the opening game of the season, the Irish were shut out by Michigan, 26-0. Then, after defeating Dayton, the Irish dropped two games in the Indiana­Kentucky Tournament and watched their record fall to 1-3. 
Notre Dame has recovered by winning the last three games of the fall season by a combined score of 51-15. The final opponent to fall was Fort Knox last Saturday, 23-11. 
Pat O'Malley, Chris Quigley, and Terry Sigler scored tries for Notre Dame, Sigler getting his on a 60-yard breakaway. Billy Young added seven points to the scoring attack on kicks. 
Notre Dame got ahead early, 11-0, but Fort Knox rallied to tie the score at 11 in the second half. The Irish put it away with 12 points in the final 15 min­utes. 
Other Notre Dame victims during the fall season included Marquette and Valparaiso. 
"We had a lot of fun, and that's the most impor-

Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 


tant thing. We have a laid-back attitude," said Club President Quentin Williams. "Our major goal is to have fun, then we try to win too." 
Notre Dame's 4-1 regular-season record during the fall gives the team a legitimate shot at again reaching the Midwest Regional Tournament in the spring. 
"It looks pretty good because we got third in the tournament last year, and we lost only one regular season match. We won't know till the spring, and the spring season also counts." 
It was only fitting that the Rowing Club ended its highly successful season just as it had started -with an impressive win for both the men and women's teams. 
Just as the Irish had dominated several Midwest 

Playoffs 
continuedfrom page 12 
plowed in from the one. The conversion was missed, but it was sufficient to account for the game's final margain. 
"Going into the game, we knew we were in the playoffs, and Morrissey had to win," said Fitzgerald. "In that game they definitely outplayed us, but yesterday we were able to move the ball and create the big plays." 
In the other matchup be­tween the Zahmbies and Howard, the game's events were mostly centered around the defense. 
Late in the fourth quarter, Howard, who was riding a three game winning streak, capitalized on a fumble recovery by Rob O'Brien, who returned it from midfield to the Zahmbie 10, That set up the subsequent touchdown run by Steve Ellis, who went off-tackle for the margian of victory. 
Zahm had another opportu­nity for a score when in the first quarter they missed a field goal after recovering a fumbled Howard punt return. The teams then traded punts until the big fumble return by O'Brien. 
These two games now set up the semi-final matches that will determine who will play in 
the championship game at the Stadium. Howard will face seemingly invincible Stanford, while Flanner looks ahead to Sorin. 
w•'-~t\-<i am i' Eras•a• Boob 
"''\) & ...... r 1027 E. Wayne ot\\0 ) 11!"~ 4 Tua-Sun,noon-6 
(\0 -.., ~-1 block south of .letferson & Eddy 
232-8444 u-11 ............._.......t. .....NUda.. 
Ask Mr. FOSter
@) travelmore 
n-avel serv1ce S1nce 1888
}== 


Travel Agency NEW LOCATION lower level-LaFortune 

239-7080 


schools in the Head of Des Moines in September, they outdistanced many Southern teams in their last regatta held in Knoxville, Tenn., last weekend. The men's lightweight eight placed first, with the 'B' boat placing third, and the women's eight also won their race. 
The regatta included teams from the Citadel, Ten­nessee, North Carolina, Cincinnati, and the Atlanta Rowing Club. 
"This season was much better than last year. The men's lightweight boats in the races at Des Moines and Tennessee had the fastest time of anyone,'' said Club President Joe Brunetti. "The men did rela­tively the same as last year, but the women won first place in three of five events, which is in­credible. You can really attribute that to the coach­ing." 
The women's team was guided by first-year Head Coach Clete Graham, who had previously coached the Irish in the 1970's. 
While the club is participating in no more regat­tas, the novice team will have its first competition in a dual row with Michigan on Sunday at the Notre Dame boathouse. The row is tentatively scheduled from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 
The Howard game looks par­to be a heavy underdog, though said. "I don't think they're un­ticularly interesting because Brennan isn't so sure. -beatable. We're an improving Stanford has beaten its last two team, and I think the game will opponents by a combined score "Apparently, (Stanford) be a very compettitve one." of 52-0. Howard, while on a four wasn't too impressed with our game winning streak, appears performance yesterday," he It should be interesting. 


Seniors and interested underclassmen are invited to attend: 
"Investment Banking Financial Analyst Positions: An Introduction" 
Date: Thursday, November 6 
Time: 8:00 p.m. 
Location: Upper Lounge 

University Club 
Two 1985 graduates from the University 
will discuss the role of the analyst on 
Wall Street and provide advice on 
researching and seeking two-year 
financial analyst positions. 
Sponsored by: 
Salomon Brothers Inc nKidder, Peabody & Co. 
lncorpor;aled 

All majors welcome. 
-~--~ -~---------·---------­




1[()((~~----------------------~fue-sda~y,N~ove~mbe~r4~,100~6-p~age_u 
Bloom Far Side Gary Larson •I 
Beer Nuts 
NOV. Y -L£~ PAUSE FOR A 
8/l.I£F VPDAT£. OUR HERO fillS 
NOW BEEN "Ro7TING" IN A NICARAC,UAN JAil FOR 2 lo/Ertcr
ON PHONY SPY CJIARW THAT 
1-/f WAS ACCUSEJJ OF WHEN 
HIS PLANE(TTIAT WAS SUPP­OSED TO 8[ FLYING 11//'1 HOME 
FOR FALL BREAK)IlCJDENTALLY STRAYED OVER NJCAKAGOA. 
CURRENTLY, HE'S TRYING 70 COHf TO T£RHS W!T11 HIS OWN HOf(f'Al/TY.-. . 
Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar, ''The Consolidation of Democracy Project: Some thoughts at Mid-Stage," by Prof. Guillermo O'Donnell, ND. 131 Decio 
3:30 p.m.: AeronauticaJ.Mechanical En­gineerng Seminar, ''Flows and Fractals,' by K.R. Sreenivasan, Yale University, 224 Cushing 
4:00 
-6:00 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, and the Dept. of Modern and Classical Languages Lecture Theme: Perspectives in Classics. "Reconstructing the Roman Countryside," by Stephen Dyson, Prof. of Classics and History, Wes­Jyan University, Library Lounge 

4:00 
p.m.: GTE Emerging Scholar Lec­ture in Civil Engineering, "New Develop­ments in the Durability and Damage Tolerance of Aerospace Structures," by Margery E. Artley, Air Force Wright Aeronautical Lab., Wright Patterson AFB. 238 Fitzpatrick Hall 


4:00-5:30p.m.: SMC Philosophy Dept. Lecture, "the Good," by Rosemary Des Jaradins, Bryn-Mawr College, StapletonLounge 
4:30 
p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium, "Statistical Perspectives of Biomedical Problems;" by Prof. Anthony M. Schork, University of Michigan, 226 CCMB 

4:30 
p.m.: Biological Sciences Seminar, "Ecological Consequences of the Projected Sea-Level Rise: Implications for the International GeosphereBiosphere Program," by Dr. Orie . Loucks, Holcomb Research Institute, Butler University, Galvin Auditorium 


· · 
4:30 p.m.: Physics lecture, "Hegerfeldt's 
Theorum" by Joseph Godfrey, ND Dept. · of Physics, 327 Nieuland 
6:30p.m.: Presentation, "How to Conduct a Successful Mail Campaign" by Paul Reynolds, Career & Placement Services, 124 Hayes Healy 
7:00 p.m.: General Meeting, Inventors Club, 222 Cushing 
7:30p.m.: Kellogg Institute, the Depts. of Anthropology, and Communication and theatre Latin American Film Series, "Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands," in 1977, color, 106 minutes, Bruno Baretto, Brazil, Annenberg Auditorium 
8:00-ll:OO p.m.: Overseas Development Network Coffeehouse, CSC 8:00p.m.: Philosophy Lecture, "Through a Glass Darkly: Plato on the Good," by Rosemary Des Jardins, Bryn-Mawr col­lege, Library Lounge 
9:00p.m.: Debate, "Gun Control," spon­sored by the Grace Hall Social Concerns Group, Grace Hall Pit 

Dinner Menus Notre Dame· 
8 oz. New York Strip Steak Cheese Macaroni & Ham Vegetable Quiche Chicken Patties on Sesame Round Bun 
Saint Mary's 
French Dip Sandwich w/ Au Jus Broccoli Stuffed Fish Spinich Crepes Deli Bar 

ACROSS 1 Electricity 6 "A -Is Born" 
10 Enclosure 14 Hilo hello 15 Tops 16 Taj Mahal site 17 Descartes 
and Lacoste 18 Gr. meeting 
place 19 Moselle feeder 20 Restaurant 
fare 23 Baseball's Mel 26 Latin abbr. 27 Papas 28 In a stupid 
manner 30 Was acquainted with 31 Salad 
ingredient 32 Theater section 33 Ovine sound 36 Fair 37 Interdict 38 Group of 
followers 39 Spread to dry 40 Nautical call 42 Ballet dance 44 Donkey sound 45 Turgid 46 Pilot 48 Eng. school 49 Vane letters 50 Restaurant 
fare 53 Diva's forte 54 Bridge seat 55 Fla. seaport 59 Totes 60 Captain Hook's 
aide 61 Terry or 

Glasgow 62 Parisian pals 63 Dispatch 64 Zeus or Apollo 
DOWN 1 Container 2 Rubber tree 3 Charged atom 4 Man in the 
kitchen 


l 

Early clock-watchers 
The Daily Cro~·sword 

5 Least difficult 6 Move easily 7 Add 8 Shortly 9 Recitation 

10 Nut 11 Encore! 12 Concord or 
Zinfandel 13 Corn units 21 No~V~andy town 22 Algonquian 23 Musical group 24 Treasure ­25 Domesticated 29-Jose 30 --Tiki 32 Place 33 Army wakener 34 Stranger 
'35 In agreement 37 Lad 38 Big Sur state: 
abbr. 40 Code or rug 41 Gear for 
Dobbin 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 


OMOIO ADAMS~PPILIE DARIE TELAE ELEM 0 N E S E R I EIS DENIS 
1114/86 42 Over the hill 50 Part of a casa 43 Gave 51 Spouse for a 44 Detour baronet 45 Said 52 Valley 46 Public assembly 56 1051 47 Dramatist 57 Favorite Pirandello 58 Before how 48 Ger. city or way 
1 
I 
. I 
Student, Activities Board presents ... ''With All Deliberate William Minter Delay: The West and specialist on South Africa South Africa With an introduction by Dr. Peter Walshe. Sanctions'' Wednesday, Nov~. 5th 8:00pm Wash in ton Hall  

-------~-----_;_;_____.:_:._:.........:...___________-'-'-'--'--'---'-----'--~---­

--~---------------~--­
I 
f 
I 
I 



i S~orts
r Tuesday, November 4, 1986-page 12 
I I 
I I· Field hockey ends home schedule I I I by thrashing Albion College, 9-0 
I 
ByANDREABELEFONTE! Sports Writer 
I 
~ The Notre Dame field hockey I team defeated Albion, 9-0, in I their final home game of the
I 
season. 
Left inner Ann McGlinn led 
the Irish with four goals and 
one assist. 
" We had a lot of problems in scoring in the past," said McGlinn. "But we worked in front of the goal all week, and this time it came together." 
McGlinn moved from left link to left inner because~ of a knee injury to co-captain Corinne DiGiacomo. DiGiacomo,along with co­captain Mary Wagner, under­went surgery on Friday. Wag­ner had her broken nose set and DiGiacomo had knee surgery. 
"I had been playing left link and doing a lot of moving around," commented McGlinn. "But when DiGiacomo got hurt I took her place. And Christine Sweeney has done a great job taking my spot at left link." 
Other scorers for Notre Dame were Benet DeBerry with two goals and Joanne Mar­shall, Mindy Green and Step­hanie Giggetts each with one goal. 

Defensively, goalies Mary Jean Beetel and Suzanne Waters shared the shutout. 
The Irish jumped to a 5-0 lead in the first half, including the hat trick by McGlinn. During the second half, Head Coach Jill Linaenfeld used as many sub­stitutes as possible. The scoring drive continued and the game ended 9-0. 
The team wraps up its. final week of the season by traveling to Calvin College tomorrow and to Eastern Kentucky over the weekend for the Midwest Regionals. 

Both Howard and Sorin, shown above in Inter-alive in the playoffs. Kevin McCormack details hall football action earlier this season, are still the action below. 

By KEVIN McCORMACK Sports Writer ­
The 1986 Interhall football playoffs commenced last Sun­day with first-round games matching Parseghian division rivals Morrissey and Flanner and Howard versus Zahm. Both of the games' outcomes might be classified as upsets as well with Flanner and recent upstart Howard pulling off identical 6-0 victories. 

Just two weeks ago in the final regular season game of the year at Cartier Field, The Manor had dominated Flanner 13-0, to claim for itself a playoff berth. In that game, freshman 
Howard, Flanner advance to semis by recording identical 6-0 victories 
Juniors Today Soph./Law/Grad Students Wednesday 

SMC volleyball improves to 20-7 
Freshmen Thursday By DEIRDRE FINN 
Sports Writer 
Students who wish to purchase tickets m)lst bring their appli­cation, remittance and ID card to Gate 10 of the ACC between 
The Saint Mary's volleyball 
1:30 p.m. and 6 p.m. on the day specified for your class. Ticket 
team placed third in its invita­
prices are $60 for lower arena and $45 for upper arena seating. 
tional)ast weekend, giving the 
Student basketball ticket applications have been sent out to all students with a campus or local address. Any student who has 
Belles the top slot in the North not yet received his or her application, or whose preprinted ap­
area District of Indiana. plication contains an error in class status, should go to the Ticket 
The Belles won two of their Office on the second floor of the ACC on a day prior to the one 
three preliminary matches, the 
designated for his or her class. 
first against Ancilla College,
Students should note that the season ticket package does not 
15-4, 15-3, and the second
include the opening game of the Coca-Cola NIT against Western 
against Taylor,15-11, 13-15, 15­
Kentucky on Nov. 21. Tickets for that game will go on sale at a 
6. Their only preliminary loss
later date. 
was to Franklin College, 15-6, 

NV A's Century Club provides motivation 
Exercise is not the most exciting thing in the world. Many people would much rather sit around and be lazy than jog a few miles or swim some laps. But if you want to get in shape, or if you want to get rid of a few pounds, you know there is only one way to do it. 
Lack of motivation in exercise is the precise problem NVA has addressed through the Century Club. The three­year old club establishes a framework in which a person can choose an activity and pledge to do so many miles or hours of the activity by a deadline. 
The participant can choose from jogging, swimming, 

Pete Gegen 
Assistant Sports Editor 
cycling, walking, cross-country skiing, and aerobics. He or she signs a sheet pledging the miles or hours, and then keeps a log of the time or distance accumulated each day. If the goal is met by the deadline, the person wins at-shirt. 
"Our purpose is to promote consistent activity," says Sally Derengoski, assistant director of NVA. "This is just one way for outside motivation." 
Currently 29 students have pledged in the fall semester, including sophomore Maggie Sieger, who has chosen swimming as her exercise. 
"Last year in (phy§ical education class), I had Michele Gelfman, the women's tennis coach, for conditioning," says Sieger. "She gave the class an NVA handout on the Century Club. I was interested because I like to swim." 
Taking out an ambitious pledge, Sieger fell just short of her goal last year. But now she has modified her goal to match her workout. ~ 
"I signed up to do 10 miles," she says. "I swim 36 laps (a half-mile) a day, three days a week, so I'm hoping to make it." 
Luckily NVA did not stick with the original conception of the club, or people like Sieger would have never had the chance to get involved. Originated in 1983, the program 
see CENTURY, page 9 
quarterback Joe Fuqua con­nected on two bombs for touch­downs, mastering the baffled Flanner secondary for the game's only scores. . The Morrissey defense also had held the Flanner offense at bay, keeping them from any scoring opportunities until late in that contest. 
This was not the case in Sun­day's game. The Morrissey of­fense did get untracked, but were unable to score. 
"Our defense bent, but we didn't break," said Flanner head coach Jim Fitzgerald. "There were so many clutch performances by individuals on our defense, it would be impossible to mention them all." 
Several Flanner players were impressive on the field, including-Frank Liggio, who had two fumble recoveries and an interception. Another key play was made by Dave Kelly, who intercepted a pass in the endzone with four minutes to play in the game. The Manor was inside Flanner's 10-yard line on that play. 
Kelly also hauled in a 50-yard pass in the second quarter, set­ting up the only score of the game when Kelly's brother Jim 
see PLAYOFFS, page 10 

15-12. 
The Belles faced first-ranked Illinois Benedictine College in their semifinal match. The Belles lost in three games, 15-4, 11-15, 15-6. 
In the finals, the Belles downed Purdue Calamet, 15-11, 15-0, to give Saint Mary's a third-place finish. 
Coach Lampert was happy with the teams performance. 
"The girls played very well throughout the entire tourna­ment. The match against Illi­
nois Benedictine was good, but ~ I. think the girls realize they 
could have played better." 
Seniors Julie Schroeder and 

Mary Reidy totaled 44 and 27 
kills, respectively, for the 
tournament. Both players were 
nominated for the all­
tournament team. 
These wins improve th~ 

Belles record to 20-7 and its 
league record to 9-1. 
The Belles compete in their 

district championships this 
weekend. 





