Genious-page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 65 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Former aides take Fifth Amendment before committee 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Two of Pres­ident Reagan's recently departed national security aides, both still active-duty military officers, refused to publicly answer questions Tuesday from a House commit­tee trying to explore the Iranian-Contra arms-and-money connection. 
The dramatic invocations of Fifth Amendment rights by Vice Adm. John Poindexter and Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North brought an increasing aura of rnystery to the burgeoning foreign policy scandal. 
The twin refusals to testify came as the Reagan adminis­tration appeared, still, to be at odds with itself over exactly what happened and how offi­cials should respond to con­gressional demands for answers. Retired Maj. Gen. Richard Secord, another prin­cipal figure in the controversy, took the Fifth Amendment 
Grads to get 'best seats' if they request 1 or 2 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
In a letter delivered Tues­day, 1987 Notre Dame graduates learned they'll be guaranteed the "best seats" in the ACC for commencement ceremonies, but only if they re­quest one or two tickets. 
Those asking for three ACC tickets, the letter continued, will be guaranteed three seats for the May 17 ceremony. 
Those asking for four tickets, however, will only be assured three arena seats. The three seats, which may or may not be together, will "most likely" be in the bleachers. 
Moreover, depending on the demand for arena seats, the before the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
In citing their constitutional right against self­incrimination, Poindexter, Reagan's former national se­curity adviser, and North, fired as a key National Security Council aide, declined in sepa­rate, nationally broadcast, ap­pearances before the House Foreign Affairs Committee to discuss any aspect of U.S. arms sales to Iran or the transfer of profits to Nicaraguan Contra rebels. 
"I must decline to answer that question at this time be­cause of my constitutional rights under the Fifth Amend­ment," Poindexter, who resigned Nov. 25, told the com­mittee. 
"On the advice of counsel, I respectfully and regretfully decline to answer the question based on my constitutional rights," responded North, who 
See IRAN, page 5 
fourth ticket may be for a closed-circuit telecast of the ceremony in the Center for Continuing Education. 
In late September, Univer­sity officials announced they no longer could guarantee four ACC tickets. They attributed the potential shortfall in tickets to the "record number" of graduating students and na­tional interest in University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's farewell. 
Senior Class President David Miklos said he has spoken several times with members of the commencement commit­The Observer;ftobert Jones tee, which formulated the Spruced up original proposal. This 30 foot blue spruce standing outside the aging students to decorate the tree and place 
CSC was donated to the University by the people clothing donations beneath the tree for the See TICKETS, page 6 of Buchanan City, Michigan. The esc is encour-South Bend Shelter for the Homeless. 
HPC discusses drunk drivers and Howard 
By REGIS COCCIA Assistant News Editor 
The problem of drinking and driving and the closing of Howard Hall were two of the topics discussed at Tuesday night's Hall Presidents' Coun­cil meeting. 
The Council discussed possi­ble reactions by the adminis­tration to the accident that killed Zahm Hall Junior Mi­dents for ideas to cut down on drinking and driving. HPC members argued against the use of breathalyzers by Notre Dame Security. 
Hall presidents said breath testing was "a mockery; people just wanted to see how high a rating they could get." Several said the testing tended to "promote drinking" rather than discourage driving. 
The Council also discussed adding, "we've been trying to do it for 10 years." 
Coordinator for Board of Trustees Reports Bruce Loh­man said "You have to ask whether an overpass will solve anything,'' noting the pollution centered around overpasses. "The problem is that cars travel at high rates of speed at that point," Lohman said. Even if an overpass was there, would (the accident that killed to happen to us," said Howard Hall President Jim Bradford. "We weren't notified until the campus got letters. (There is) not a whole lot I can say right now," he said. "We're trying to get concessions. otherwise, it's. going to get violent," Brad­ford said. He advised girls to "stay away from the dorm for at least a week." 
Bradford said "We don't think anything was handled 
Mass today for Cogswell 
A mass in memory of Mi­chael C. Cogswell, the Zahm Hall junior who died after he was struck by a car Friday night, will be offered today at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. University Presi­dent Father Theodore Res­burgh will celebrate the mass and Assistant Vice 
chael Cogswell. Zahm Hall the possibility of an overpass Michael Cogswell) have hap­right. We're encouraging all 
President for Student Af­
Howard residents to write let­
President Andrew Souder sug­from Notre Dame to Saint pened?" 
fairs Father David Tyson
ters to Father Tyson, so it's
gested testing drivers leaving Mary's. HPC Co-Chairman The Council also discussed 
will be the concelebrant. 
the University's decision to known that this is not the way 
student parking lot D2 for in­Joanie Cahill said "Notre 
Zahm Hall Rector Father 
toxication. Dame and Saint Mary's each convert Howard Hall to a wo­to handle a University deci-
Thomas King will deliver 
HPC Co-Chairman Sheila owns the sides on (Route) 31, men's dorm. 
the homily. 
O'Connor asked the hall presi-but the state owns the middle," "We don't know what's going See HPC, page 4 

Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 2
The Observer 
In Brief 
Seventy animal rights demonstrators were arrested during protests at the University of California campuses at Berkeley and Los Angeles. The protestors wanted an end to cruel treatment of animals in scientific research. 
-The Observer 
Father James Burtchaell and Professor Timothy O'Meara were awarded this year's Emily Schlossberger Award at an awards presentation in the ACC's Monogram Room. The award was presented by the Notre Dame Press. 
-The Observer 
Singer and composer Barry Manilow is recovering in Los Angeles from oral surgery performed to remove a cyst in his upper jaw, according to a statement by his record producer. Manilow, 40, underwent the surgery Sun­day night and was resting comfortably Monday, the state­ment said. -Associated Press 
Actor Charlton Heston said his colleagues were trying to censure him Sunday because they disagree with him, when some Screen Actors Guild members denounced his support of non-union hiring laws. At the union's annual membership meeting Sunday, hundreds of SAG members voiced approval for a floor motion seeking formal censure of Heston. -Associated Press 
Dr. Seuss, known as Theodore Seuss Geisel, says there's one character in his books he most resembles--"the Grinch." Asked to explain his choice of who he resembles, Geisel smiled an un-Grinch-like grin: "ask my wife." Geisel, who has been writing for 60 years, appeared Mon­day night for a reading of his works at the Carnegie Build­ing, where a traveling exhibit of his works is housed. ­
Associated Press 
The accreditation of three small black colleges in Texas and Tennessee was ordered revoked Tuesday by the major school accrediting agency in the Southeast. The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools said Bishop College of Dallas; Knoxville College of Knoxville, Tenn., and Mor­ristown College, Morristown, Tenn., failed to meet financial-stability requirements. The schools retain their accreditation pending appeals, which will be heard during the summer, the agency said. -Associated Press 
An explosion and fire struck a 42-story office building in downtown Boston on Tuesday, injuring seven people and forcing hundreds of workers to evacuate the smoky skyscraper, police said. An unknown number of people were trapped in elevators and on upper floors when the 5:40p.m. blast in the basement of One Post Office Square knocked out power, said police Sgt. Thomas Kelley. 
Associated Press 
Of Interest 
The "Dimensions in Jazz" concert will be performed by the Notre Dame Jazz Bands tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. This free event will feature big band music. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and in Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center untill p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
Unnamed sources in the Administra­tion, who wish to remain anonymous, said the weather today will bring snow showers with highs in the middle 20s. Clearing Wednesday night and cold. Low in the teens. Partly cloudy Thursday and cold. High in the upper 20s. 


Design Editor ............... Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor ................. Ed Nolan Design Assistant ............. Chris Donnelly Accent Layout............... Sharon Emmite Typeaetter ................ Becky Gunderman Typist ................................ Esther Ivory ........................................... Michael Buc ND Day Editor .............. Kim Yuratovav News Editor ................ Chris Bednanrski SMC Day Editor ................ Karen Webb Copy Editor ...................... Patty Censky Ad Design ............... Catherine Ramsden Sports Copy Editor ............. Marty Burns Sports Wednesday Editor ..... Pete Gegen Viewpoint Copy Editor ........... Bob White Sports Wednesday Design .. Matt Breslin Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . . . Melinda Murphy Photographer......................... Bob Jones 
The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Don't stop dreams of Santa in the next generation of kids 
I remember the Christmas -I found out there was no Santa Claus. 
My disillusionment came in art class, where the other first graders and I were making Christmas cards for our parents out of bits of cotton, some glitter and stacks of construction paper. 
Feeling sorry for my parents because Santa never left anything under the tree for them (they were just too big, I reasoned), I was busy pasting globs of cotton to my red paper in a somewhat vain attempt to create a Santa Claus face on their card. I didn't want them to think Santa had forgotten them. 
While I was drawing suitably rosy cheeks and a big toothy grin on my Santa, Ricky Hogya (we thought he knew everything because, having flunked a year, he was already 7 V2 and easily older than all of us) looked over my shoulder and laughed at my effort. 
"What are you putting him on your parents' card for?" Ricky jeered. "Everyone knows there isn't a Santa Claus. Your parents pretend to be him!" 
Even though I, like the rest of the first graders, usually believed what Ricky said about this kind of thing, I thought he had to be wrong this time. After all, Santa Claus was everywhere around Christmas time. There were television specials about him and songs about him. Long lines of children waited to see him everywhere; only days before I had sat on his lap with my little sister Amy and told him what I wanted from the North Pole. Of course he was real, I assured myself. 
But Ricky had put the first doubts in my mind. I began to wonder how Santa Claus could be everywhere--ringing bells and rattling cans on a street corner one minute, sitting inside a de­partment store greeting children the next. I began to speculate about how Santa got into my house; there was no chimney for him to slide down, no fireplace for him to drag his sack of toys through. He would have to get through my front door, I reasoned, but that was always locked. 
But I kept hoping that I was wrong, that Ricky didn't know everything, that Santa Claus would somehow still come. 
On Christmas Eve, my brother Tim helped me look through the big atlas to plot Rudolph's path across the world, just like we always had. 
Right before bed, I left the traditional plate of goodies with a carefully printed note for Santa and his reindeer, but this time I sub­stituted raisins for the reindeer's carrots, be­cause I knew my dad hated raisins. I planned to check if they had been eaten the next morning 

SOPHOMORES~ 
WHY WAIT UNTIL SENIOR YEAR TO CONDUCT YOUR JOB INTERVIEWS? UPON ACCEPTANCE INTO THE NROTC PROGRAM YOU WILL HAVE A POSITION OF GREAT RESPONSIBILITY, ADVENTURE AWAITING YOU AS A NAVAL AVIATOR, SUBMARINER, OR SURFACE WARFARE OFFICER. 
~ ~ ~ 
~:?;~7? 
NAVYOmaRS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST. 

A TWO-YEAR SCHOLARSHIP ($16,000), OR $2,000 EXPENSE MONEY MAY BE EARNED BY APPLYING FOR NROTC DURING YOUR SOPHOMORE YEAR! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL LT. WACHTL AT 239-7274. 
Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 

... just to make sure that the reindeer really did come. Then I lay in bed with my eyes squeezed shut and waited and hoped. 
When I woke up that Christmas morning, I didn't run immediately to the Christmas tree to see what Santa had left like I usually did. Instead, I crept into the kitchen to begin my search. I really didn't expect to find anything, but there they were, hidden on a high shelf in the cupboard: the raisins which my dad just couldn't eat, with the note folded up underneath. Ricky was right; there was no Santa Claus. 
It's funny that I can't remember anything else that happened that morning, maybe be­cause somewhere deep inside my now-adult mind is a little corner that still doesn't want to give up the magical, mythical essence of Santa Claus tucked away there that long-ago morning. It's still neat to believe that a jolly man bedecked in red makes children all over the world happy by leaving them toys, even when their doors are locked. 
And now when my nieces and nephews ask me if there really is a Santa Claus, I don't hesitate to tell them yes. They'll "grow up" soon enough when some other Ricky tells them the truth. 
In the meantime, I'll help them celebrate Christmas Eve like I once did. And in case one of them ever tries to catch Santa Claus like I did, I'll even eat the raisins. 

The Observer Wednesday, December 10, 1986 -page 3 
SMC senior finishes in top 15 of pageant 
By MARGIE KERSTEN Saint Mary's Editor 
The Miss Indiana pageant concluded Sunday night and Saint Mary's senior Gertie Wimmer finished in the top fif­teen. "After the pageant, my father asked me if it was worth it, and all I could do was nod. It was more than worth it," said the EnglishGerman major. 
After being notified that she was a contestant in the pageant just 2 months ago, Wimmer said she underwent a rigorous plan of exercise and dieting. 
"People in the audience laughed when I announced the 'Quick Weight Loss Center' in Merrillville as my sponsor, but I can't imagine being in the pageant 24 pounds ago," Wim­mer said, adding "I was still apprehensive about the swim suit contest." 
Each contestant had a spon­sor who paid the basic fee of $350 for their participation and for their ads in the program. Anyone could sponsor a contes­tant selected for the state finals--companies, friends or family. 
The 54 contestants competed in both swimsuits and evening gowns on stage, and were in­terviewed earlier by five judges in private. "Being a 'W' I was about the last person to meet the judges. The other girls kept asking, 'Aren't you nervous?' But it never even oc­curred to me to be nervous. I was too excited." 
The interviews were limited 
to two minutes with each judge 
with a buzzer marking the end 
of each term. The contestants 
wore their evening gowns while 
the judges asked them about fu­
ture plans, their reasons for 
being in the pageant and what 
was their most important past 
experience. The final15 contes­
tants were determined after 
these initial interviews. 
After that judging the women 
got into street clothes and 
rehearsed for about three 
hours, Wimmer said. Rehear­
sal included instructions on 
what to do if a contestant made 
the final selections (final fif­
teen, and final five), as well as 
how to walk on stage and how 
to approach the microphone 
during the introductions. 
Of the fifteen finalists, Wim­mer said her name was called last. "I wasn't expecting to be called at all. The girl behind me had to give me a shove so I would move to the front." 
Wimmer said her future plans might include pageants, because "I really enjoyed the experience of meeting people, especially while working to­gether under stress. It brought out the best in people, or at least the funniest." 
Wimmer said the most surprising part of the whole ex­perience was the other contes­tants. "I had expected them to be stereotypical beauty queens. Instead, I found girls who would be a lot of fun to party with." 


Give them a hand 
Members of the Notre Dame Shenanigans per­group entertained the crowd with, among other formed their Christmas concert last night in things, traditional Christmas favorites. Washington Hall. During the perfomance the 
Auditors verify number of voters 
Associated Press half the ballots cast in the dis­counts, said a complete count 
trict's 450 precincts. The dis­of challenged ballots for the 
SOUTH Bend, Ind. -State trict also includes portions of first 24 districts will be avail­
auditors assigned to recount Marshall, Kosciusko, Starke able after auditors inspect 
the nation's closest congres­and LaPorte counties, where voting machines Wednesday. 
sional election tallied absentee ballots will be recounted later. The auditors will compare the 
ballots Tuesday and verified "There were glitches, but recorded number of votes cast 
the number of voters who these things happen on the first with the numbers registered on 
signed poll books in 19 St. day," said Joe Donnelly, an at­the sealed machines, Hoffman 
Joseph County precincts. torney observing the St. Joseph said. 
A second team of auditors County tallying for Ward. "I 
began tallying computer punch think we got much more work The 24 St. Joseph County 
card ballots in neighboring done than we had expected." precincts are part of Indiana 
Elkhart County. As representatives from House District 5, which is also 
Democratic challenger Hiler's and Ward's campaigns in dispute. The two recounts 
Thomas Ward, a 1970 Notre watched, auditors opened en­are being conducted at the 
Dame graduate, requested the velops containing absentee bal­same time, Hoffman said. 
recount after incumbent Re­lots. Some of the envelopes ap­State law allows both candi­
publican John Hiler of LaPorte peared to have been unsealed, dates, as well as the auditing 
was certified the winner by 66 prompting the first ballot chal­team, to challenge the validity 
votes. lenges in the recount. of votes. The challenges will be 
Elkhart and St. Joseph Hubert Hoffman, a field su­heard by the state Recount 
counties account for more than pervisor for the Board of Ac-Commission . 

Wednesday December 10, 1986 in South Dining Hall 
please join us for this meal filled with Holiday Specialties and featuring a Madrigal Procession of the Comestibles 
To accomodate this event. MEALCARDS will be designated/or One Dining Hall Onlyfor Dinner Wednesday. December 1Oth. and Thursday. December 11th. according to your residence hall. 
North Dining Hall 
Breen Phillips Farley Flanner Grace 
Keenan Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Stanford 

Poached Sole 
Cabinet Pudding Long Grain & Wild Rice Asparagus Spears & Glazed Carrots 
Salad Bar of Select Toppings 
DESSERTS Peppermint Ice Cream with Warmed Chocolate Sauce Plum Pu'dding Yule Logs Fresh Fruit Bowl 

South Dining Hall 
Alumni Badin Carroll Cavanaugh Dillon Fisher St. Edward's Sarin Walsh Holy Cross 
Howard 
Lewis 
Lyons 
Morrissey 
Pangborn 
Zahm 
Off Campus meal plan 

The Observer Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 4 
report) due for April, 1987." Members of the Hall Struc­
HPC South Bend police impose news blackout
tures Committee said the com­
continuedfrom page 1 

mittee will examine the stay­
sion." hall system and its possible after fire and bomb threats at McDonald's 
O'Connor asked what action alternatives, coed housing, the the Council could take on future positioning of women's Howard's behalf. Cahill sug-dorms, expansion of social gested contacting the Hall space during renovation peri-Staffs to block off rooms for ods and transfer student Howard residents next year. housing. 
"The University perfectly The Rector and Hall Staffs timed this," Bradford said, Committee announced it will noting that several Howard discuss the relationship among residents planning to spend Hall staff members, the Hall next semester abroad have less staff's relationship to students, than two weeks to find housing uniformity of rule enforcement next year. in the halls and the role of the 
In other business, Chairman resident assistant. of Board of Trustees Reports In other business, Flanner Pat McCauley spoke to the Hall Co-President Clay Step-Council about the four commit-hens announced the Senate dis-tees set up for the Residen-cussed proposals on a drunk tiality Report. McCauley, a driving program headed by Morrissey Hall senior, said Off-Campus Representative "We're going to make copies of Race Thoman and using the the goals of the committees. Buzz Bus for transportation to Our final goal is (to have the as well as from bars. 
Associated Press 
SOUTH Bend, Ind. -South Bend police said Tuesday they have imposed a news blackout on an investigation into a series of recent fires and bomb threats at local McDonald's restaurants. 
Detective Chief Donald Ruszkowski said he and Police Chief Charles Hurley Jr. made the decision to refuse comment concerning the investigation. 
"If and when I can tell you something, I will," Ruszkowski said. "We're being as tight­lipped on our release of infor­mation as possible." 
Ruszkowski said officials from the police and fire depart­




J····························: 
~ HEY: TIM MARCAGSI t
* 
~

* 
~

* 
~ 


~ Happy21stBirthday t
* ~
* 
today! ~

* 
~


* 
~

* 
~

* 
~

* 
~


* 
~

* 
~ 


~ Love from K.C. t *****************************~ 
ments are working in an effort to uncover evidence in a recent series of incidents at four McDonald's restaurants in the city. He declined to say how many investigators are as­signed to the probes. 
In fires last week, one restau­rant was destroyed and an­other extensively damaged. Losses from the fires were es­timated at more than $400,000. Another McDonald's was evacuated Sunday evening while police investigated a bomb threat. Police refused to confirm reports that a bomb was found there and other McDonald's reportedly have been the sources of bomb threats. 
Investigators are concerned with suspicious activities at any local restaurant and are not limiting their investigation to McDonald's restaurants, Ruszkowski said. 
Local news reporters, along with out-of-town reporters, have been seeking information about the incidents, he said. 
The Observer 
is accepting applications for the paid position of AP Courier for the spring semester. Anyone who is interested should direct questions to Kevin Be­cker by calling 239-7471 or coming to The Ob­server offices on the third floor of LaFortune. 
All applicants must have a car. 

!Jacu[ty Course 'Eva[uations .9Lre !}{ere I I 

• 
These are not the same as Teacher Course Evaluations. 

• 
Your chance to evaluate the ND Faculty and see the results I 

• 
Results will be available to you prior to Advance Registration for Fall Classes. 

• 
You should have received your forms in your mailbox. 

• 
To return -place in your respective dorm box. 

• 
Your input is of ~m.<& value !! 

• 
Off-Campus students: please pick up forms in your class office. 



Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 5 
The Observer 
SMC department seeks 20 new computers 
By KAREN WEBB Copy Editor 
The math and computer sci­ence department at Saint Mary's is seeking approval for the addition of 20 new microcomputers to its com­puter lab, announced Senior Class Vice President Maureen Erny at Tuesday night's Programming Board meeting. 
Erny, who holds a work­study job in the computer lab, learned of the proposed addi­tion from Prof. Peter Smith 

SHARI GILLIG 
MY YOU 

HAVEGROWNI 
******************** 
Soft 

Contact~ 
Lenses $19.86 
Daily or Extended Wear 
of the department. The pro­posal is in response to student complaints of long lines to use the computers, Erny said. 
The announcement came after the presentation of the "campus needs" section of the Student Government Awareness Surveys to the board, when Programming Board Secretary Sue Miller voiced the observation of dif­ficulty in accessing the com­puters, 
"It's not just during finals but all the time now," said Holy Cross Hall Vice President 


Now you can treat yourself to 
llle contact lenses you have always wanted at a price anyone can afford! For a limited time Dr. David Tavel has reduced llle price of Softmate d:.tily or extended wear contact lenses to an unheard of price of $19.86.• 
Call for an appointment today. You'll see better for less. Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical has been caring for eyes for over 40 years willl 32 locations in Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the care of your family's eyes to Indiana's largest, oldest and most trusted name in eyccare? 

•Exam i< noquireJ •tthe time of purchosc and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orders and mav not be combined with anv other d.i.!count. 
Providers for all Insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servin!l I ndiaM's eyecare nuds for over 40 years. We carry on a lradit ion of 
~~~ Medicaid Welc 
exct/lence that is wtSurpassed. And that's a 
SOUTH BEND • MISHAWAKA
promise from the doctor." 
Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center 
Acro<s from Scottsdale Mall Next door to Osco DruR 
a~£­
...:..:...----291-4000 258-SO<JO 
Jeanne Marie Burke. 
Saint Mary's students sometimes have to wait for graduate and Notre Dame students who use the com­puters to finish, she said, add­ing however, "I don't know how they can regulate that." 
"We have to wait to use our own (computers)," said Lisa Lawler, traditional events commissioner. 
"Lessons and Carols," a candlelit choral and dancing performance, will be held in the Church of Lorretto at 8 Sunday night, announced Eunice Tornetta 
Iran 
continuedfrom page I 
worked for Poindexter at the NSC. 
At the White House, Presi­dent Reagan, in an exchange with news reporters during a picture-taking session, said he has caught glimpses of the na­tionally televised House hearings, but also said, "If I were taking questions, I would remind you that I am the one that told you all that we know about what happened." 
In fact, Reagan used his reg­ular Saturday radio broadcast to the nation last weekend to acknowledge that elements of his policy to establish contact with moderate political forces in Iran were "flawed" and that 
WEEKEND SKie;; 
Schuss Mountain ~ January 23·25 
COST: $100 
Includes skiing Friday night, Saturday, Saturday night, Sunda, IncIudes SKIING Friday night, Saturday, Saturday night, Sunda) LODGING Fri & Sat nights MEALS Sat-breakfast & dinner, Sun .-breakfast PLUS: Entertainment Fri night 
Sign-ups: deadline Fri., Dec. 12 at Class Office or call 239-5225 


l1~w© at 
Eddie's Restaurant (2 Blocks from campus) Dan Keusal acoustic guitar/ vocals ~©ffi~®lli'ls Dec. 10 8-1Opm for more info call 232-5861 
"mistakes were made." With­out directly apologizing for the policy that resulted in the big­gest flap of his nearly 6-year presidency, Reagan promised to "set things straight" with the American people. 
While members of Congress turned up the heat for answers, two former presidents offered their views : 
Richard Nixon described the Iran-Contra controversy as "a sideshow" and said it was time for critics of Reagan to ''get off his back." Nixon's comments were made during a closed­door meeting with Republican governors in Parisappany, N.J. 
Jimmy Carter said Reagan appears to be trying to hide the facts. 
Reagan appears to want the Congress to have to dig for the facts, meaning they will come out piecemeal "and that could be more damaging," Carter said in an interview in Atlanta. 
In another development, Rep. Charles Wilson, D-Texas, who strongly supports covert 
U.S. aid to Afghan guerillas said he had been assured by CIA director William Casey that the mixing of money for Nicaragua's Contras with Af­ghan aid was a clerical error and did not divert any money intended for the Aghans. 
Poindexter and North had previously declined to answer questions during private ses­sion of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and North later Tuesday cited the Fifth Amendment during an appear­ance before the House Intelligence Committee, said a committee source who declined to be named publicly. 
Bazaar offers Saint Mary's place to shop 
By Katie Sullivan News Staff 
With the Christmas shopping season upon us, the annual Saint Mary's Christmas Bazaar will again supplement University Park Mall and Scot­tsdale Mall as places to find gifts. 
The Bazaar, sponsored by Saint Mary's Student Govern­ment, began Monday and will continue through this week in the Le Mans Hall lobby from 10 a.m-5 p.m each day. 
Holiday crafts, jewelry, flower and candy grams, baked goods, ornaments, stuffed animals, dolls, silk screened cards, sweatshirts and many more Christmas gift items are on sale. 
Class and hall governments, various clubs such as Toastmasters International, language clubs and business clubs in addition to outside ven­dors from the community and individual students who want to sell their crafts, have products on sale at the bazaar. 
The proceeds from each ven­dor's entry fee will be donated to the Northern Indiana Spina Bifida Foundation. 


The Observer Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 6 
' 
Special Olympics' organizers start to look for volunteers 
By SEAN S. HICKEY Hickey, chairman of the stu­''Specifically," he said, Olympics will function as The previous International News Staff dent government committee "Saint Mary's and Notre Dame smoothlyand efficiently as pos­Special Olympics was held at deaJing with the Olympics. students can help local area sible, he said. Louisiana State University in The International Special athletes train reg-ularly in Baton Rouge. Notre Dame won Olympics is going to be held at Getting Notre Dame students their practices. Although there has not been the honored distinction of host­Notre Dame this summer, and to work at the Special Olympics "Contrary to popular beliefs, a major fund drive on campus, ing the event by jointly submit­organizers are beginning to may be a problem, as Hickey the International Special "The International Special ting with South Bend a proposal make plans and seek volun­observed: "The event, to be Olympics does not receive Olympics Organization gets its to the International committee, teers. held from July 30 to Aug. 8, is funds from the United Way but money from civil groups and said Hickey. "Notre Dame was "The International Special in between summer school and from the united effort of many corporations such as PepsiCo. chosen because of the tradition Olympics Committee, centered pre-season football so the small communities," Hickey and Civitan International, the of athletic excellence, and the 
in South Bend for the upcoming campus is sparsely populated. said. Like any other interna­main sponsor of the games this South Bend area is practically
Special Olympics, is trying to Students, however, wishing to tional sporting event, the Inter­year, which donated $1.6 mil­unrivaled in its facilities and organize volunteers from the volunteer their efforts will be national Special Olympics in­lion or 60 percent of the total care for the handicapped,"South Bend area," said Erik greatly appreciated. volves careful planning so the cost," Hickey said. Hickey said. 
Small town donates Christtnas tree for holiday season 
By TIM BRENNAN and concerns at the Center. of campus Christmas celebra­use, but could be part of According to the Center, or­
News staff Buchanan City officials con­tions this year. various campus activities. ganizations such as the Neigh­
tacted her husband, director of In addition, requests for win­Decoration of the tree, so far, borhood Study Help Program, 
Because of the generosity of community relations, toward ter clothing donations to be has been done mainly by the Big Brothers-Sisters and Uni­
a small town in Michigan, the the end of November and sug­placed around the tree are Center and student govern­versity Ministry all plan to use 
Center for Social Concerns has gested that the tree be used in being made by South Bend's ment, but she said that the tree in their celebrations. 
a 30-foot Christmas tree which some way by the University for Shelter for the Homeless. anybody is welcome to contrib­
will be used in Christmas Christmas instead of disposing Roemer, who contacted stu­ute. Roemer said she hopes the 
celebrations by the campus. of it. The full-sized blue spruce dentgovernmentaboutthetree tree becomes an invitation for 
The tree, donated by Buc­had stood on the parkway in said, "The collaboration be­"We are open to people making anyone to use the Center's re­
hanan City, Mich., stands out­Buchanan, but because of its tween the Center and student decqrations and putting them sources for a Christmas party. 
side the esc building as an in­size it had to be removed. government is a good thing and on," said Roemer. She said she "The tree is there for students 
vitation for all students to use should help bring many differ­expects that as different to use in any way they would 
in their Christmas celebra­With the support of student ent types of people together." groups begin celebrating like," said Roemer, "and it can 
tions, said Mary Ann Roemer, government, the Center hopes She emphasized that the tree is around the tree, it should fill be kind of a home away from 
coordinator for special events to see the tree become a part not exclusively for the Center's up with decorations. home." 

Tickets 
continuedfrom page 1 
Miklos said he suggested that the committee provide better seats to those requesting fewer than four tickets. "That's been 
The CSC has the Coolest 
partially put into effect,'' he 
said. 
Miklos said he also asked 
that a single feed be provided 
for video cameras instead of al­

Christmas Tree EVER! 
lowing a large number of 
cameras to take up arena 
space. 
That proposal, however, was turned down because the Uni­versity wanted to accommo­date the media covering the 
$ Make Christmas special for
event, Miklos said. Besides those proposals, ~ "I'm not aware of any other op­
someone who needs your help.
tions," he said. 
Miklos added, however, that the problem could be solved if students only requested those tickets they actually needed, rather than requesting tickets 
Put a gift under the tree for the
in order to sell them. 
In September, officials said that as many as 20 percent of the graduates may receive a 

South Bend Shelter for the Homeless. 
guest ticket for the CCE 
telecast. 
They estimated that 2,392 graduate and undergraduate students will be eligible to par­ticipate .in the commencement 
THEY WANT YOUR STUFF -­
exercises. If each of these stu­dents received four ACC tick­ets, a shortfall of 548 tickets would exist. 

Old clothes, shoes, new clothes,
Seniors learned Tuesday that if necessary, a lottery will be held in late March for those re­
canned food, mittens, crayons, ...
questing four tickets. 
Winners of the lottery will receive four ACC arena tickets, which may or may not be to­gether. The losers of the lottery j will be issued three tickets for the ACC and one for the CCE auditorium. 
The lottery's results will be 
Thank You, and have ~ 
announced in early April. By combining the CCE 


a very Merry Christmas.
auditorium with monitors in 
other rooms, officials estimate 
between 1,000 and 2,000 people 
could watch the commence­
ment by closed circuit this 
year. 
In late February, all 
graduating seniors will be 
asked to specify the number of 
tickets they want, the letter 
said. 



"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________
wedn-esda-y,De-cemb-erw-,t9s_s-pa-ge7 
P.O. BoxQ 
Dialogues can bring us closer to each other 

Dear Editor: 
I've noticed with interest the recent articles and letters in The Observer on the Grace Hall Debates as well as the articles on the need to understand the other's point of view. These challenge the stereotypical view of the Domer who lives in the "little world" of pop­corn and parties unconcerned about the community at large -national or inter­national. 
With the support and help of friends and interested people I have been trying to organize an informal meeting where we could learn how to under­stand the other's point of view through "dialogue." Dialogue is a step further from "debate" which enables the mutual opening up of understanding of the other's point of view. In this process, hopefully we can move a step closer to each other. 
With the support of the International Student Organization we had hoped to have one such session this semester. Academic pressures assured me that the way to hell is paved with good in­tentions. 
Perhaps we can work on this early next semester. The first meeting could help improve communication between the Administration and students. The topic could be "Notre Dame in the 21st Century." Fr. Malloy could be invited to share his insights and then a panel of students could respond -a freshman, a foreign student, an American student who has studied or worked abroad, and a graduate student. Like the idea? Then let's act on it and get those channels of communication moving! 
Bruce P. Corrie Graduate Student, Economics 
Some use Breathalyzer as a drinking contest 

Dear Editor: 
This past Friday I had the opportu­nity to spend time at the Alumni-Senior Club, socializing with friends. This was also the night that the Notre Dame Se­curity Department was offering free Breathalyzer tests to any student inter­ested in knowing his or her blood alcohol content <BAC). 
What bothered me was the attitude of a group of Notre Dame students, who took the opportunity to have a drinking contest. Their contest consisted of drinking nonstop for a few hours, then proceding to the Lewis bus shelter to have their BAC tested. The winner of the contest was the guy who had the highest blood alcohol content. 
The very night that the Breathalyzer test was given, a life was lost, in a a tragic, senseless accident. 
As a member of the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community, I was shocked at the casual attitude this· group of stu­dents (and possibly others) took toward the test. The test was given for a spe­cific reason by Security, and this type of abuse is plainly stupid. 
It's sad to know that a group of stu­dents in our community could take such an attitude toward the Breathalyzer test. I could only hope and pray that. the student who was driving his "drink­ing buddies" that night had the com­mon sense to give up his car keys. 
Peggy Prosser LeMans Hall 
Uprooting dorm places quotas over students 
Dear Editor: 

What comes to mind when one thinks of Notre Dame? A close-knit, caring home away from home? For the 165 Howard Hall residents, their visions will soon be shattered. The admission off 150 more girls next year at Notre Dame will force Howard's "family" to uproot and move into various dorms. 
Why doesn't Notre Dame wait until the new dorms are built before admit­ting more females? Or why don't they put incoming freshman girls in study lounges in existing women's halls as they do freshman guys? There would only be twenty more girls in each female dorm. It doesn't seem fair that Howard residents, who have lived with the same friends for several years, are going to have to split up. 
Apparently Notre Dame is becoming more concerned with admissions than with the lives of their current students. We are all in favor of admitting more girls, but not at the expense of disrupt­ing the lives of the Howard family. Surely another answer could have been found instead of turning the lives of Howard residents upside-down. It's sad to realize that Notre Dame is not quite the caring place we thought it was. As one Howard resident said, "If Notre Dame truly stands for Our Mother, why is she kicking us out of our home?" 
Lynn Vanderbosch Patricia Ferry Nora O'Brien Maureen McAllister Michele Czchan Pam Chasty Terry Smigill Michelle Barron Rozel Gatmaitan McCandless Hall Residents 

Reagan displays genius in foreign policy-making 
With all the controversy surrounding the Iranian arms shipment, things are getting pretty ugly in Washington. Our great leader Ronbo seems to have blown his image. Considering the Con­tras connection and the CIA involve­ment, "Irangate" is a fitting term for the incident. 

Brian Murray 
guest column 
But people have lost sight of what Reagan may have, or at least tried to have, achieved. To a few suspicious minds, though, Reagan proved that he is a genius foreign policy maker. 
On the surface of the Iranian Arms Debacle, Reagan seemed to contradict his hardline hostage and terrorist 

Doonesbury 
policies. Vowing never to bargain with terrorists, nor to perpetuate the hostage situation by giving them the arms they need to take other hostages, he nonetheless supplied them weapons. 
But the hostages may have been only an excuse for a deeper, more important goal. Reagan actually made a valiant attempt to make friends with Iran. 
Yes, I said friends with Iran. Why would anyone want to be friends with Iran? Get your nose out of your books and stick it on a globe. Iran is the So­viet's key to the Mideast. 
Situated in one of the world's most important areas, Iran is critical to stop­ping the Soviet expansion policy. Bla­tant facts point toward a Soviet inva­sion of Iran. First, the country stands between Russia and the Red Sea. Secondly, Russian domination of Iran threatens the Mideast's oil, our oil. Fi­nally, Iran is next door to Afghanistan and is second in line on the Soviet World Domination Agenda. 
The Kremlin salivates everytime Iran is mentioned, and the Iran-Iraq war is the perfect opportunity for an invasion. If Iraq wins, and the odds of winning are starting to weigh in their favor, Russia will have an excuse to invade Iran, to "secure its borders." History has proven that Russia will jump at the chance of an invasion with the recent destruction of Afghanistan. Traditionally, the United States has al­ways had a presence in Iran. We are not there to protect Iran now. 
Instead of contradicting his terrorist policy, Reagan may have been trying to help Iran win the war with Iraq. A victory would help Iran stay indepen­dent of the Soviets. Also, American aid might be the basis of future negotia-
Garry Trudeau 

!T'$ NfJT50 8Af1l{)NK. 
MARCIA!
M!Kt, YOU'VE. GOT TO 

I'M ~/WING A LOT ON 
IN FACT,
RN!J YaJRSaF A 

RXt?, ANPIAVO!P771e 
I ... OH,NO.
PlACE 7D 5TAY. ?HIS 

COMMUTE. eVCI(ff}{INGI
I$ NOIAJAY 70 UV£31 

NE£() IS RIGHTHti?E IN 
I 

I 7H/St:YFICCI
\ 
tions with Iran and could block any Iranian ties with Russia. An Iranian loss could only destablize the Mideast. 
But how could one bargain with the hated devil, the Ayatollah? Well, the ailing leader may not even be running the country now, let alone in future years. Reagan may have recognized the benefit in helping their future leaders, the seconds of Khomeini. 
If the next leader in Iran is on better terms with the United States, possibly because we helped Iran to win the war, the United States will have a foot in the door. Of course, helping terrorists is a crime. But helping future allies secure an important and critical country is an admirable goal. Reagan may have done just that. 
Brian Murray is a junior accounting major. 
Quote of the day 

"Ultimately you have no choice but to feel what you are feeling." 
Dr. Robert Anthony 

General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan 
sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann
policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby and obJectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the maJority of Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten Sy.stems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton 
Controller ........................................ Alex VonderHaar
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt
their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free 
expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1968 

Accent 
-----·-----------------------------------------------------, 


Theun 


Students once again have a home away from dorm. The newly refurbished Lafortune Student Center offers students a place to meet, snack, study and even sleep. Clockwise from top left: The Huddle Snack Bar is once again open to the public in the student center after its stint in the North Dining Hall. Director of Food Services, William Hickey, Jr., talks on the telephone at the pizza counter, one of three food service counters in the expanded Huddle. The Uni­versity Hair Stylists now snip and prim customers' hair in the basement of Lafortune, as this coiffeur does to this young woman. 
Junior Jim Moore studies and snacks at a table in a room off of the Huddle. Sweet Shop patrons (from left to right: Jo Henriquez, Jon Miki, Blake Schomas and Mike Corbellini) enjoy cones and sundaes any day of the week. Sophomore Brian Samuels catches 40 winks in Lafortune's Main Loby. Eileen Higgins and Mike Cambi crack the books at a booth in the student center's basement that is reminiscent of Mom's kitchen table. Irish Garden's business blossoms in its new, larger location in the basement of the center. 
Photography by Damien Chin 


Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 8 -9 The Observer Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 10 

Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC ski team will have tryouts for the team on Tuesday, Jan. 13 at Swiss Valley. Meet at the main circle at noon, with a car if possible. Cost is $20. Everyone must turn in proof of insurance and sign eligibility forms before Dec. 18. Also, turtleneck money is due this week. For more information contact Kathy Skendzel at 4029. -The Observer 
The ND Tae Kwon Do club participated in a tournament at Knollwood Country Club this past weekend. Pat Wilber took first and Pete Collette placed second in green belt forms, and lightweight Mark Ho and heavyweight Chris Thomas both took seconds in brown belt fighting. Second­place finishes were also taken by Pat Rooney, Kelly McKay, and Joe Roche in yellow belt fighting, yellow belt forms, and blue belt forms respectively. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club's men's varsity and novice teams will have practice today at 5 p.m. on the ACC concourse. 
-The Observer 

Ivan Lendl reaffirmed his number-one ranking in the world of men's tennis by defeading Boris Becker, 6-4, 6-4, 6-4, to win the Master's tennis tournament at Madison Square Garden in New York. -Associated Press 

AP Photo 
Senior guard Steve Alford and the Indiana points but couldn't stop Vanderbilt as the Com­Hoosiers stumbled last night, losing to Vander­modores handed the second-ranked Hoosiers bilt 79-75 in Nashville, Tenn. Alford scored 28 their first loss of the year. 
The Observer Noire Dame office, located on I he third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saini Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifleds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
PART  TIME  GRAPHIC  ARTIST  Gaye. the lady in the Saint Mary's dining  Bear,  
NOTICES  L.....-F_O_R_R_EN_T__..II..___FO_R_S_A_LE----J  WANTED. 3187.  CALL  259·8822  OR  259·  hall Cheer up! You're wonderful, and always have been.  Our three year long distance romance sure hasn't been easy. Yet you never failed to make me feel special, you never  
Wordprocessing-Typing 272-8827 typing 277 ·9649 .........................................  APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. CALL 1·982·6463 FOR DETAILS. ASK FOR CHAD. FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889  FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses, hardwood convertible frames and acces· series. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South Michigan St. 233·8176. FOR SALE: CABER SKI BOOTS(7112) CALL PAT 1581  YELLOW SUBMARINE PRE-FINAL SPECIAL: Buy 2 sandwiches and get 1 free. Delivery till midnight, Fri-Sat till1 am. Attenzione 85·86 Romans! X-mas happy hour at Kathleen's Friday 6·1 01 sH'Ai<esF>eP.FiE:····ci:ua····ME:MsE:Fisi  Merry Christmasl!l SMC OBSERVER STAFF need a ride to CONNECTICUT! Preferably Fairfield County or Westchester. N.Y. area. Can leave FRI. CALL TOM i945  failed to make me feel that I was a large part of your life. Even while you're there. How did you do it.? I don't wonder what heaven is like. I found my own heaven right here in your arms. I love you . Little Girl  
WORDPROCESSING 277·8131  ROOM FOR ONE PERSON IN QUIET NON-SMOKING 3BR HOME WITH 2 GR. STUDENTS $125 MONTH e UTIL.  1 way air ticket SB to BAL TO. Jan.5. $45. 272·4321.  WE'RE HAVING A XMAS PARTY-WED, OEC.10. SEE CONNIE IN THE EN· GUSH OFFICE FOR MORE DETAILS!  Long live the OAK. Forever immortal.  DAMSEL IN DISTRESS! I NEED A RIDE FOR  
SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR$$$$$ PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca· tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 1 0· 530 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233·7009. PITTSBURGH CLUB BUS SIGNUPS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE Signups at Lafortune 7:00 p.m. on Thursday December 11. Any questions call Red x1612 or Mike x3402  2 MI. FROM NO. CALL DAVID. 232· 8327. EARLY OR LATE. Roommate needed to share house. $165tnonth. Private room. Grad. student welcome. Call 289·8203 latenites. Looking for Apt in Chitown "86 Grad has furnished apt for sublease jan "87 to may '87 call 2002 3·4 Bdrm., 2 bath, newly decorated house. Monitored security system. 922 Allen St. Call 234·6688.  COMPUTER, MAC 128. printer. Access. Chris 289·3499 FOR SALE: 1982 CHEVETTE. 4 speed, AMf'M, sunroof. $1895. Call Dan: 239· 7943 or 234·8984. A REAL CHRISTMAS PRESENT: ·as Toyota Fiesta Van Conversion with EFI, auto, overdrive (25mpg), ps, pb, pw, pi, arl\'lm ster. cass, dual aill'heat, refrig, slvrA>rgndy. Only 11 k miles, warranty, 1 owner. Top quality conversion in perfect condition. An $18k value but will accept reasonable offer around $13k by Mon.,  THANK YOU ST. JUDE SENIOR CLASS MASS Saturday. December 13 with '"MONK'" MALLOY celebrating. Sorin Hall Chapel. Time t.b.a. After mass. stay and meet the new University President­elect over eggnog and cookies Do Communism and Christianity mix? Come find out at the last meeting of the little Stevie Worland fan club. Friday Dec. 12 at 3:25 p.m. Workers (and Wor· land fans) of the world unite!  HEY, PANGBORN HOCKEY TEAM: The puck never went in to the net. This was rightly called by the official in position who never did, or does, live in Alumni. The game was fairly called. SORRY GUYS I HEY JOHN SCHLOEGEL: I'm sorry you got problems, but no one wants to read your gripes in the paper' You still got 3 112 years to go somewhere else. Contemplate this fact over Christmas break!  CHRISTMAS BREAK ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF BINGHAMTON, SYRACUSE, OR ELMIRA, NY. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY. DEC. 19, AFTER 1:00 PM. WILL SHARE EXPENSES PLEASE CALL ERIN AT 3706. SKIS FOR SALE ROSSIGNAL SM, 195 CM, WITH BIN· DINGS, GREAT COND $115 CALL JOE £1190 Question: Is it hip to be square? Only BABE will know for sure!  
UNDERWATER ARCHAEOLOGY SEM· INAR: FEB 13·15, Lecture,Seminar,ln· pool training-PAD! Cert;INFO at Anthro Off,3rd fl O'Shag;O.W. Cert req. LOST/FOUND  WANTED ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiciar>j:>sychologist) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be sensitive to a child's needs and can provide a warm loving home where a child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal.  Dec. 15. Financing available. See and drive at NO Credit Union 8:30-4:30. Evenings 233·1950. A BEST BUY. ACT NOW. ··························· FOR SALE · ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET CHICAGO O'HARE TO PORTLAND OREGON. DEPARTS 121.!2 O'HARE. RETURNS 1112,$225. INTER· ESTEO CALL £3028 OR £3468.  JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS Ski Trip sign-ups through Wednesday 2:30·5, 6·9 in class office Boyne Moun· tain February 27-March 1 $125 includes lifts, transportation, lodging, breakfast Sat. & Sun.,dinner Sat. $40 deposit re· quired at sign-up JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS  HELP! Need ride to and from D.C. area for break can leave as early as 7pm Wed.17 Please call Karen 284·4011 ................................................... Going to MPLS Dec. 18 or 19? I need ride! Will pay expenses leeAnn 284· 5439. HAPPY B·DAY, SR. KAROL!  Yo GUIDO DUDE. Merry Christmas! Pat Murphy, at Campus View, we love you!! Noreen, Noel and Kim! ODE Courtesy Christmas Dinner at Chi Chi's Lib. Circle · 5:30 Dec. 11  
HELP I! I lost my eye-glasses on Nov. 26 just before break. If you found them  Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect (212)·724·7942. PREGNANT? Or know someone who is?  TICKETS  JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS Retreat with Fr. Steele sign-ups through Wednesday in class office 2:30·5,6·9 at Crowe's House January 16 & 17 $5 to  YOUTH IN ASIA opening for IN MY SHRUBBERY Thursday night at Lee's. Y'all Come!  HEY BIO: Thinking of you and the tissues at Kentucky Fried. I hope you're wearing protection tonight. Football games,bars,hot tubs. dan·  
please call me at 287 ·4831. They were in a black case and were an amber men's style.  Warm, well-educated, happy couple, married 11 years, unable to have children of our own, want to share our loving home  Need GAs for N. Carolina and Duke. Call Bill.2008  be paid at sign-up JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS  OOME-OPOLY A Great Christmas Gift!  cing,Chicago,jolly rancher games,wild turkey(gobble,gobble). walk this way, kick your ass,barefoot walks across the mod  
LOST: long gray tweed London Fog OVERCOAT at Morris Park Country Club during Holy Cross formal. Important keys in pocket. Call Frank lzzo at £4194. .............................................................  with a baby. Confidentiality assured: medical expenses paid. Call 317·257· 3669. PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED. CALL 259·8822 OR 259·  I need 2 GA's for N. Carolina. Call Mar· garet X1293 I NEED 2 SETS OF 2 GA"S FOR THURSDAYS E. MICH·ND GAME!!!  to all who put up with me during the last two months THANK YOU. You helped me so much. Gert  OOME·OPOLY An ND-SMC Board Game... for alumni who have "everything"  quad and so much more. Thanks for making me so happy these past 2 months. Zero SEAN ONLY TEN DAYS TILL YOU SEE KIMMER$ AGAIN! GOOD LUCK. DUDE I  
LOST: a GUCCI KEY RING with keys  3187.  CALL KEVIN AT 4006 OR 4277. THANK  BERNADETTE AND LEE ANN:  814 PARTY SUITE  
numbered 243. If found please call x3736. Please return. LOST: THICK GOLD BANGLE BRACELET WITH ENGRAVED DESIGN. POSSIBLY LOST AT  WANTED: VHS tape of ND·USC game. Will pay $20. Call Andy at 283·1972. 2 DUDES NEED RIDES TO THE TWIN CITIES  YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT. PERSONALS  ]  GOD BLESS YOU FOR THE DOZEN REDS THAT HIT MY DOORSTEP ON SATURDAY. As if I deserve it! You guys are wonderful! Love you. Gert  DOME-OPOLY It"s naw,lt"s fun, and It's available for Christmas at the NOOMC Bookstores  PEBBLES DONT TELL BARNEY AND BETTY BUT WE'VE HEARD THAT BAM· BAM WANTS TO ROCK IN BED-ROCK AGAIN. GIVE BAM-BAM A CALL AND  
BRIDGET'S  OR  MORRISSEY.  IF  WOULD LIKE TO LEAVE THURS NITE  LET'S MAKE IT A DATE.  
FOUND PLEASE CALL 284·4351. LOST: WED. NIGHT.! V4, AT BRIDGET$, A LARGE BLACK SCARF  CALL GREG X4334 I need ride to D.C. area for break Pat 3004  OAR HOUSE COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. ....................  ARYAN WHAT? PROTOTYPE FOR NAZI PROPOGANDA POSTERS? Charles lobdellltl, you have a wierd way of saying  HOWARD MEN····Make Walsh your first choice. We love you·· The Wild Women  GREAT GIFTS!! NO Boxer Shorts ON SALE WED at Din· ner, only $6 or call&order 2897.  
WWHITE FLECKS. PLEASE CALL MEGAN 1242 TO RETURN IT AND I WILL LOVE YOU FOREVER  WE NEED 2 RIDES TO NYC FOR XMAS. CALL BOB X 2354 OR DAN X 2329.  ADOPTION: We're a happily married couple (physiciar>j:>sychologist) who deeply wish to adopt a newborn. We'd be sensitive to a child's needs and can  I sufficed. Thanks for showing up, babe. Love you. Gert  DOME·OPOLY A Great Christmas Giftl  CHRIS AND MIKE (yeah, Sully and Jen· nings !)and the rest of the Cavanaugt>Howard team. What a finish  
FOUND: Walkman in O'Shag Computer Lab before Turkey break.To claim, call 233·2235.  Need ride No. NJ for Xmas Janet 284·  provide a warm loving home where a child will flourish. Expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call Ellie and Alan collect  SENIORS • SENIORS -SENIORS SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF  Merry Christmas to Alison Pivonka! ..........................................  Monday nightl Keep up the good work· we'll be cheering for you. ·the B-P Con­tingent  
FOUND: CAMERA ON VENDING MAC·  4346  (212) 724· 7942. ................................................  SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS  Merry Christmas to Debbie Hassing'  .................................. NORTH JERSEY BOUND? Will drive you  
HINES  IN  NIEUWLAND  SCIENCE.  Need riders do AKM:ANTON  SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR$$$$!!!  DEADLINE:  DECEMBER  19, 1988.  Merry Christmas to Patti Tripathi!  home SAFELY and CHEAPL Yi Make  
CALL NIKKI IN CHEMISTRY DEPT. 239· 7058. LOST: Two sets of Arena b·ball tix. sec· tion 4. row 4, seats 8 and 9 ... They  Sid x3223 I NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO,N.Y. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY NIGHT.MONEY NO  PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca· tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 1 0· 530  CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· VICES. SENIORS -SENIORS -SENIORS  Merry Christmas to Mike Smithl Merry Christmas to Mark Taylor!  reservations for 12-19 Call Jack 3551 PLEASE, HELP ME II NEED A RIDE TO PHILA. OVER BREAK. WILLING TO SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL KIM  
weren't even mine!! Please save my Christmas. my friendships, my wallet .. If found call linda x4355!1!!! ........................................................... HELP! I LOST MY BASKETBALL TICK· ETS (SECTION 106. ROW 7, SEAT 6) AT OR ON CAMPUS AFTER THE BYU GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SUSAN AT 3435. WOULD WHOEVER ACCIDENTLY TOOK MY BLUE, CANVAS, JANSEN  PROBLEM. CALL TONY AT 234 3250 NEED RIDERS TO LONG ISLAND. CAN LEAVE WED. 17DEC. MUST BE ABLE TO DRIVE STICK-SHIFT. CALL 277· 3866. STAYING HERE FOR BREAK? LIKE CATS? WANT TO MAKE SOME EASY $? WE NEED SOMEONE TO CAT·SIT 121.!4·114. ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS VISIT OUR TWO CATS DAILY TO FEED  Available 2nd semester & fall "87 4Br house furnished, secure 4·5 stu· dents,$440.01}tnonth You pay utilities, call Geoff or Mary 288· 7276 TWO RIDERS GOING EAST ALONG I· 90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO AGAIN. IF YOU CAN BRING US ALONG PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 4 PM FRIDAY AND MONEY NO PROBLEM.  SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS DEADLINE: DECEMBER 19, 1986. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. SENIORS • SENIORS • SENIORS SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS  The Amazing... The Awesome.. . The Ultraharmonic ... NOTRE DAME CAMERATA SINGERS live at the Moreau Seminary Chapel one engagement only, Sunday, December 14, 8 p.m. Free admission. Be there or B flat. When Father Ted Hesburgh talks You can listen ...  AT 1264 GOING EAST FOR X·MAS & NEED A RIDE TO CT? I'M LEAVING DEC. 16 AFTER 10AM OR EARLY AM DEC. 17. CALL CARRIE AT SMC 4288 ASAP. GOING EAST FOR X-MAS & NEED A RIDE TO CT? I'M LEAVING DEC. 16 AFTER 10AM OR EARLY AM DEC 17. CALL CARRIE AT SMC4288 ASAP  
"  .  BOOKBAG FROM NORTH DINING HALL PLEASE RETURN IT OR I WILL FAIL MY FINALS.CALL X3484 ............................................................... Keys on an NO keyring left in Observer office. See Shirley to claim. Whoever took my black scarf from Bridgets 1114. if you don't want to call, please drop it off at the lost&found in LaFortune. It means a lot to me.  AND PET THEM. TERMS NEGOTI· ABLE. IF YOU CAN HELP US OUT. CALL 239·5799 (DAYS) OR 233·9106 (EVES.) Campus travel representative needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, free travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1·800·433·7747 for details and information mailer.  RIDER NEEDED TO SHARE EXP. TO DENVER, COLO. LEAVING DEC. 19TH RETURN JAN. 3RO. PHONE 683·7837 D.C. CLUB BUS SIGNUPS Wedneaday Dec. 10 from 11-7 P.M. Lafortune Lobby $75 Roundtrip For queatlona call Mike at 3380  DEADLINE: DECEMBER 19, 1988. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER· VICES. Thank you so much St. Jude. CAMERATA SINGERS of N.D. fame DEBUT... A CONCERT OF SACRED MUSIC This Sunday at 8:00p.m. Moreau Seminary Chapel  Tune in WVFI·AM 640's weekly talkshow "Campus Perspectives" Thursday night from 1 o to 11 and listen to Notre Dame President Father Theodore M. Hesburgh. DEAR REPLY HERE SOON, NO, I DO NOT HAVE AN HTH. PLEASE TELL ME YOUR NAME HERE TOMORROW. BRUCE G. £15  HELLO, K-TOWN This is it, last note before home. Have the fires burning. Ticket is on the way. The return to the black hole. Frohe Weinacht, y'all. Hello, Amanda Sorry, gossip monger, that"s my dog. Seriously, if we get a hippo, will you pose?  


--------~1 
December 10, 1986 The Observer page 11 

Sports Lists 

Baseball's Hall of Flame 
MAJOR BALL PARK FIRES: 
I ( 

1871 Chicago Union Baseball Grounds "Mrs. O'Leary's cow· 1890 Cleveland National League Park lightning 1894 Boston South End Grounds arson 1894 Chicago West Side Park cigar 1894 Philadelphia Baseball Grounds plumber's stove 1901 St. Louis Robison Reid cigarette 1932 Seattle Dugdale Park fireworks 1974 Chicago Comiskey Park popcorn popper 

Observer Graphic 
AP To 20 
Baakatbell 

The Top Twenty college basketball teams 1n The Associated Press poll, w1th lirsl·place votes in paren· theses, lh1a aeason'a records and total po1nts. Po1nts baaed on 20·t9·t8·t7 etc. Notre Dame opponents 
are italicized 
t Nevada-Las Vegas (39) 5·0 2 Indiana (t4) 3-0 3. Purdue (7) 3-0 4. Iowa 6·0 
5. 
North Carolina (t) 4-t 

6. 
IllinOIS (t) 4-0 7 Auburn ( t ) 2·0 



8. Western Kentucky 6-t 9 Oklahoma 3·1 tO Navy 3-t tt UCLA (1) 3·0 t2. Syracuse 4-0 t3 Georgetown 4-0 t4 Kansas 3·t t5 North Carolina St 5-t t6. Goorg1a Tech 3-t t7 P1Hsburgh 2-t 1 8 Alabama 2-t t9 Kentucky 2-t 20 Arkansas 4·0 
Others rece1v1ng votes· Temple t35, Flonda State 88, Wyom1ng 70, St. John's 67, Tulsa 6t, LoUisville 48, An zona 37, Villanova 33, Iowa State 20, Clemson t6, Cleveland State t6, DePaul t6, Northeastern t5, Oh1o State t5, California t4, Oregon State tO, Georgia 9, Duke 7, Memphis State 6, Utah 6, Hous­ton 5. Marquette 3. New Orleans 3. Florida 2. Idaho 
2. New Mex1co State 2, St. LOUIS 2, M1ch1gan t, Notre Dame 1, Southern MISSISSIPPI t 
Irish Women's Basketball 

Abrah Bumgarner Carlton Lounsbury Moomey Cowan Krick Young 
FG Pet. · .583. FT Pet. · .774. Team rebounds · 

3. Turnovers · 17 Ass1sts · t5 (lounsbury. Abrah 4). Techn1cals · none. 
MISL 
Eaatarn Dlvlalon Tonlght'a Gemea Bal!lmore at Chicago Kansas City at Tacoma 

W  L  Pet.  GB  
Ballimore  7  0  t.OOO  
Cleveland  4  3  .57t  3  
Dallas  4  3  .57t  3  
Minnesota  t  4  .200  5  
Ch1cego  0  5  .0  6  
New York  0  6  .0  8.5  

of the Castle 
. s Hairstyling · $6studenY $8.50 cumplete
IMita~~iM. cut style 
MINUtES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo •-••r• tile Roval Broaae Saataaal•• C.•ter See a taa Ia ••••••• .•. Not Ho•r• 
1-..dA "L Ra.d U (IMhlood.._a....tcb.) 
Lao! Nlght'a Reaulta Indiana 80, Notre Dame 71 
Indiana (80) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
38  t0-t9  4-4  4  2  24  
37  8-t3  2·2  3  2  t8  
22  4-6  5·8  4  3  t3  
23  t-3  0-0  2  2  
27  t-2  5-7  t  7  
27  3-3  3·4  2  t  9  
9  0·0  2·2  0  t  2  
17  t·2  3·4  4  2  5  
200  28-48  24-31  22  14  80  

t,236 t, 144 t, t26 t ,029 t,Ot2 857 779 
663 
627 547 5t7 5t0 497 480 380 324 3t5 260 235 t 84 
Geoffrey Sauer 


WALES CONFERENCE Adams Division 

W  L  T  GF  
Montreal  t4  tt  4  tOt  
Boston  t3  t t  96  
Quebec  t3  t3  4  t04  
Hart1ord  t3  8  3  8t  
Bullalo  5  t 8  4  87  
Patrick Divis ion  
Ph1ladelph1a  20  6  2  tt9  
Pittsburgh  t4  9  4  t03  
N.Y Islanders  t4  t2  2  t04  
New Jersey  t3  t2  2  t06  
Washington  9  t3  6  9t  
N.Y. Rangers  8  t2  6  t04  

CAMPBELL CONFERENCE 
Smythe Dvtston 

W L T GF Edmonton t7 tt t t27 Winn1peg t5 to 2 99 Calgary t5 t2 t tOO Los Angeles t3 t4 2 t24 Vancouver 8 t8 2 92 
Norrla Dlvlalon 

St. LOUIS t2 t1 4909628 
Minnesota  tt  t3  2  t06  
Toronto  tO  t2  84  
Detro11  tO  t3  4  79  
Ch1cago  7  t6  5  89  

Laot Night's Reaulta Philadelphia 6, Vancouver 3 St. Louis 4, Quebec 1 Buffalo 5, Detroit 5 Edmon1on 3, Minnesota 2 Washington 4. New Jersey 2 Los Angeles 7. N.Y. Islanders 2 
Em1gholz Bunek Botham Gavin Toney Mahoney Brommeland Schwartz Garske Morrison 200 32-Bt 7-9 30 24 71 
FG Pel. .525. FT Pel. · .778. Team rebounds · 1. Turnovers-2t. Assists· t9 (Toney 8). Technicals none. 
Halftime • 29·29. Officials · Ed Koors, John Thomas, . A-23t. 
Weatem Dlvlalon 

Tacoma  6  .857  
Kansas City  5  t  .833  .5  
San Diego  5  4  .556  2  
Los Angeles  3  3  .500  2.5  
Wichita  3  4  .429  3  
St. Louis  2  6  .250  4.5  

Notre Dome (71) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
t4  t-4  0·0  3  3  2  
26  2·3  0-0  6  3  4  
35  7-tt  0-0  9  4  t4  
33  4·6  2·3  0  5  tO  
36  7-18  4·4  4  3  t8  
t  0·0  t-2  t  0  t  
22  2·5  0-0  5  2  4  
3,.,  0-0002  
t9  7-tO  0-0  1  2  t4  
tt  t-3  o-o  t  2  2  

tOt  24  
9t  24  
87  24  
t22  t9  


Sports Calendar 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE 
Eoat 
W L T Pel. PF 

y-N.Y. Giants t2 2 0 .857 289 
y-Washington tt 3 0 .786 3t7 
Dallas 7 7 0 .500 315 
Philadelphia 4 9 t .32t 2t9 
St. Louis 3 t 0 t .250 t90 
Central 

x-Chicago t2 2 0 .857 3t2 
Minnesota 8 6 0 .57t 355 
Detroit 5 9 0 .357 258 
Green Bay 3 1t 0 .2t4 209 
Tampa Bay 2 t2 0 .t43 2t5 
Weal 

L.A. (lams 10 4 0 .7t4 264 San Francisco 8 5 t .607 32t Atlanta 6 7 t .464 25t New Orleans 6 8 0 .429 257 
AMERICAN CONFERENCE 
East 
W L T Pel. PF 

New England tO 4 0 .7t4 354 
N.Y. Jets tO 4 0 .7t4 3t9 
Miami 7 7 0 .500 366 
Buffalo 4 tO 0 .266 266 
Indianapolis t t3 0 .7t t75 
Central 

Cleveland tO 4 0 .7t4 310 
Cincinnati 9 5 0 .643 354 
Pittsburgh 5 9 0 .357 243 
Houston 3 tt 0 .2t4 235 
Weat 

x-Denver t 0 4 0 .7t4 33t Kansas City 8 6 0 .57t 3t4 L.A. Raiders 8 6 0 .57t 282 Seattle 8 6 0 .57t 29t San Diego 4 t 0 0 .286 294 x-clinched division Iitie y-clinched playoff berth 
Saturday'• Gamea PiHsburgh al N.Y. Jets Washington at Denver 
Sunday'a Games Buffalo at Indianapolis Cleveland at Cincinnati Green Bay at Tampa Bay New Orleans at Atlanta Philadelphia at Dallas S!. Louis a! N.Y. Giants San Francisco at New England Kansas City at L.A. Raiders Miami at L.A. Rams Minnesota at Hous1on SeaH!e at San Diego 
Monday's Gomes Chicago at Detroit 
Irish Men's Basketball 
Through Sunday 
PLAYER  G-S  MIN-AVG  FG-FGA  PCT  FT-FTA  PCT  REB  
Scott Hicks  4-4  139-34.8  25-41  .610  7-13  .539  15  
David Rivers  4-3  152-38.0  23-49  .469  9-11  .818  22  
Mark Stevenson  4-4  93-23.3  14-28  .500  9-13  .692  11  
Donald Royal  2-2  64-32.0  11-18  .611  9-14  .643  15  
Sean Conner  4-2  80-20.0  12-20  .600  2-4  .500  5  
Jamere Jackson  3~  49-16.3  5(1)-11  .454  4-6  .667  6  
Scott Paddock  4-1  80-20.0  7-12  .583  0-2  .000  13  
Gary Voce  4-4  84-21.0  1-3  .333  4-4  1.000  11  
Tony Jackson  4~  15-3.8  2-2  1.000  0~  .000  1  
Joe Fredrick  3~  10-3.3  1-3  .333  0~  .000  1  
Michael Smith  1~  9-9.0  0-1  .000  0~  .000  1  
Chris Nanni  1~  1-1.0  0~  .000  0~  .000  0  
Team  8  
NOTRE DAME  4-4  800-40.0  101(1)-188  .537  44-67  .657  109  
OPPONENTS  4-4  800-40.0  93(5)-199  .467  58-74  .784  no  
College Football  
California Bowl  Liberty Bowl  
Dec. 13 at Fresno, Calli.  Dec. 29 at Memphis, Tenn.  
Miami (Ohio) 8-3 vs San Jose St. 9-2  Tennessee 6-5 vs.  Minnesota 6-5  
Independence Bowl  Freedom Bowl  
Dec. 20 at Shreveport, La.  Dec. 30 at Anaheim, Calli.  
Mississippi 7-3-1  vs. Texas Tech 7-4  UCLA 7-3-1  vs.  Brigham Young 8-4  
Hall of Fame Bowl  
Dec. 23 at Tampa, Fla. Boston College 8-3 vs. Georgia 8-3  Holiday Bowl Dec. 30 at San Otego, Calli.  
Sun Bowl  San Diego St. 8-3 vs.  Iowa 8-3  
Dec. 25 at Et Paso, Texas Alabama 9-3 vs. Washington 8-2-1  Peach Bowl Dec. 31 at Atlanta, Ga.  
Blue-Gray Bowl Dec. 25 at Montgomery, Ala.  North Carolina St. 8-2-1 8-2-1  vs.  Virginia Tech  
Blue vs. Gray  
Gator Bowl  Bluebonnet Bowl  
Dec. 27 at Jacksonville, Fla.  Dec. 31 at Houston, Texas  
Stanford 8-3 vs. Clemson 7-2-2  Colorado 6-5 vs.  Baylor 8-3  
Aloha Bowl  All-American Bowl  
Dec. 27 at Honolulu, Hawaii  Dec. 31 at Birmingham, Ala.  
Arizona 8-3 vs. North Carolina 7-3-1  Indiana 6-5 vs. Florida St. 6-4-1  

Sally's Stitchery 
Quality Yams, Needlepoint, Cross Stitch, and accessories 
4219 Grape Road 277-6403 
PA 205 25t 290 270 307 
t64 233 290 356 43t 
206 209 260 245 
PA 25t 289 340 308 362 
290 339 288 3t2 
256 290 296 253 3t5 Eaatem Conter.nca Atlantic Dlvlalon 

Boston Philadelphia Washington New York New Jersey  W 12 12 8 5 3  L 6 6 tO t6 t6  Pet. .667 .667 .444 .238 .t58  GB 4 8.5 9.5  
Central Dlvlalon  
Atlanta Milwaukee Detroit Chicago Indiana Cleveland  t5 t3 8 9 9 8  4 7 7 9 to tO  .789 .850 .533 .500 .474 .444  2.5 5 5.5 6 6.5  
Dallas Utah Denver Houston Sacramento San Antonio  WMtam Conference Mldwnt Dlvlafon W L 12 6 10 7 9 11 7 tO 6 t3 6 t3  Pet. .667 .588 .450 .412 .3t6 .316  GB 1.5 4 4.5 6.5 6.5  
Paclflc Dlvlaton  
L.A. Lakers SeaHie Portland Golden State Phoenix L.A. Clippers  t5 tO t2 1t tO 3  3 7 9 9 9 t5  .833 .588 .571 .550 .526 .t67  4.5 4.5 5 5.5 12  
Laat Night'• Raautta  

Sacramento 120, New Jersey t 07 Atlanta t22, Cleveland 98 
L.A. Lakers 113, New York 87 Chlcego t06, Denver tOO Portland 120, San Antonio 104 Phoenix 109, Golden State 94 
Tonight'• Gamaa New Jersey at Boston Indiana at Philadelphia New York at Washington Chicago at Atlanta Sacramento at Detroit 
L.A. Lakers at Milwaukee Portland at Dallas Utah at Denver Houston at Phoenix Seattle at L.A. Clippers 
Note: this list covers all sports action over break Home games In CAPS 
Men's Basketball 

Dec. 11 vs. EASTERN MICHIGAN Dec. 20 vs. VALPARAISO Dec. 29 vs. CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dec. 31 at Maryland Jan. 3 vs. Penn at the Palestra Jan. 4 vs. Yale at New Haven Jan. 1 0 at DePaul Jan. 12 at Creighton 
Women's Basketball Dec. 13 vs. LOYOLA Dec. 20 vs. ST. AMBROSE Dec. 30-31 at Seattle Times Classic Jan. 3 at Loyola-Marymount Jan. 5 at UCLA Jan. 10 vs. MARYLAND Jan. 13 at Northern Illinois
.., 

SMC Basketball Dec. 13 at St. Joseph's (Rensselaer) Jan. 13 at Manchester 
Hockey Dec. 12 vs. ALABAMA-HUNTSVILLE Dec. 13 vs. ALABAMA-HUNTSVILLE Jan. 9 at North Dakota State Jan. 10 at North Dakota State 
Wrastllng Dec. 10 vs. WISCONSIN-PARKSlDE Jan. 4 at Cal State-Fullerton Tourney Jan. 6 at Cal State-Fullerton Jan. 7 at Cal Poly 
Men's Swimming Jan. 9 at LaSalle Jan. 10 at VIllanova 
Women's Swimming Jan. 9 at LaSalle Jan. 10 at VIllanova 
SMC Swimming Dec. 11 vs. VALPARAISO and ALBION 
AVG  PF  A  BK  ST  TP  AVG  
3.8  11  11  0  5  57  14.3  
5.5  7  34  1  4  55  13.8  
2.8  5  5  0  1  37  9.3  
7.5  8  1  2  2  31  15.5  
1.3  9  2  1  2  26  6.5  
2.0  8  2  0  1  15  5.0  
3.3  9  2  1  1  14  3.5  
2.8  8  2  2  4  6  1.5  
0.3  3  0  0  0  4  1.0  
0.3  4  1  0  1  2  0.7  
1.0  0  1  0  0  0  0.0  
0.0  0  0  0  0  0  0.0  
2.0  
27.3  72  61  5  21  %47  61.8  
27.5  67  43  4  zo  249  62.3  

Citrus Bowl Jan. 1 at Orlando, Fla. Southern California 7-4 vs. Auburn 9-2 
Cotton Bowl Jan. 1 at Dallas, Texas Texas A&M 9-2 vs. Ohio State 9-3 
Sugar Bowl Jan. 1 at Naw Orleans, La. Louisiana St. 9-2 vs. Nebraska 9-2 
Rose Bowl Jan. 1 at Pa111dena, Calif. Arizona St. 9-1-1 vs. Michigan 11-1 
Orange Bowl Jan. 1 at Miami, Fla. Oklahoma 10-1 vs. Arkansas 9-2 
Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2 at Tampa, Ariz. Miami (Fla.) 11-0 vs. Penn State 11-0 
GA 94 89 9t 78 t 06 
67 9t 97 t2t t07 t33 
GA t05 87 t04 t25 tt3 
Pta. 32 30 30 29 t4 
42 32 30 28 24 22 
Pta 35 32 3t 28 t8 



------~-~------------------~----·--­
The Observer 

Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 12 

t ·---------­
Hoosiers 
ATTENTION ALL JUNIORS: 
continuedfrom page 16 
"Outside shooting beats a zone," DiStanislao said of her 

t l match-up zone's failure to shut Ifyour parents DID NOT receive JPW down the Hoosier attack in the 
finformation over Thanksgiving Break,
second half. "You can't beat it 
l

and they sure got it. We knew _please leave your name, home address,
Abram and (Cindy) 

fcampus address and campus phone number J
Bumgarner (18 points) could hit those shots, and that's what at the Student Activities Office by Thurs,
killed us." 

fDec. 11 at 4:30p.m. l 
DiStanislao, who lost her lone senior and captain when Lavetta Willis quit the team for tIfwe do not get your name and address, your personal reasons less than a 
parents will not receive the proper information. 
week ago, has yet to name a replacement as team captain. 

--------l 
"We're looking for a win first," DiStanislao said. "We'll worry about captains later." 
IRISH ITEMS -Late in the first half, one of the overhead lights at the ACC fell to the ground and shattered near the Notre Dame bench. No one was injured in the incident. . . Freshman guard Julie Garske wore a facemask throughout the game because of a frac­tured nose she suffered in Notre Dame's loss to Colorado this past weekend. "Now we call her Jason,'' joked DiStanis­lao. 


Junior playmaker Mary Gavin drives around Indiana's Cindy Bumgarner in last night's 80-71 Hoosier win over the Irish. Gavin scored 10 points for Notre Dame, but foul trouble forced 
NEED GIFT IDEAS [HE SNITE MUSEUM SHOP HAS THE ANSWER 
Engagement Calendars 
Pottery T-Shirts Christmas cards 

Irish 
continuedfrom page 16 
wrestlers on the mat every dual meet. 
"It's just like the lead off man in baseball. I like to get the ball rolling," said Raden­baugh. "The first match is when the crowd is up the high­est, and in a dual meet it's im­portant to get momentum." _ As a two-time state cham­pion at St. Joseph's High School in Michigan, Radenbaugh con­sidered attending Indiana, Pitt, and Michigan before choosing Notre Dame. 
"I was looking for a place where I could step right in," said Radenbaugh. "The other programs were more estab­lished, and I wanted to go to a program that was up and com­ing." 
McCann knew Radenbaugh had the talent to step right in and make an impact his fresh­man year. 
"I thought he had enough ability to start. We thought that when we first recruited him," said McCann. "The ability was there, but we were concerned with the mental aspect. He's shown a really good mental at­titude, especially in this last tournament." 
In last weekend's Las Vegas Invitational, Radenbaugh won four of six matches, barely losing to a wrestler from fourth-ranked Oklahoma State. In other tournaments against top-flight competition, he placed first in the Michigan State Invitational, and fourth in the St. Louis Open. 
"He needs this kind of com­petition more often. He prob­ably benefitted the most from this tournament (Las Vegas In­vitational)," said McCann. "We have to give him the toug­hest competition we can. He's smart, conscientious, and has a great attitude." 
The competition Raden­baugh has seen so soon in his college career is a far cry from his high school days, when he pinned 110 of 176 opponents, and won the Junior National Wrestling Tournament the summer after his senior year. 
"There are no more easy matches. In high school, I could just breeze to the finals and just get up for that match," said Radenbaugh. "In college you can't do that; you have to be up for every match. 
"The biggest change has been the strength of everybody. I've wrestled guys this year that are stronger than me. That's something I have to work on because a lot of matches in college have just come down to brute strength." 
Still, Radenbaugh isn't in awe of his competitors either, and he has set some lofty goals for himself this season. 
"I'd like to win at least 25 matches and qualify for nation­als, which I don't think is out of the question," said Raden­baugh. "If I wrestle the way I can, people will respect me." 
Open Mon.·Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 1 :00-4:00 

---~---~--­
..----------------~----~-----~----­
The Observer Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 13 
54°/o OFF AYRES FLORENTINI COLLECTION OF 14K GOLD JEWELRY THURSDAY ONLY! 

This brilliant collection includes chains in all styles and lengths ... serpentine, cobra, herringbone and box chains ... plus bracelets, charms and pierced earrings. Choose from tailored classics or contemporary styles. Better Jewelry (0.148), all stores. • 
Charms, reg. 10.00 to 350.00 ...........................................sale 4.60 to 161.00 Earrings, reg. 25.00 to 412.00 ........................................ . sale 11.50 to 189.52 Bracelets, reg. 31.00 to 1,251.00 .......................................sale 14.26 to 575.46 Necklaces, reg. 59.00 to 1,397.00 .....................................sale 27.14 to 642.62 Prices subject to change according to market prices. 
EXTRA SPECIALS! WHILE QUANTITIES LAST! Selected earrings, reg. 33.00 to 40.00 ...........................................sale 14.99 Selected bracelets, reg. 43.50 to 67.00 ..........................................sale 19.99 5 pt. diamond on 18" light rope chain, reg. 100.00 ............................. . sale 39.99 Sorry, no mail or phone orders on this sale. 

Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park daily 9 to 10; Sunday 11 to 7. 

~~----··­
The Observer Wednesday, December 10, 1986-page 14 
State. What kind of effect can that game have? Probably the 

Tight battles mark opening rounds Scrooge 
same as an LSU-Nebraska Sugar Bowl.
continuedfrompage 16 
And then there's the lovely


of 1986-87 men's IH hoop action 
Hitch pay dearly for their parts Rose Bowl, you remember, the 
By GEORGE TRAVERS Sports Writer 
The season is not as long as the NBA's, only lasting three months with playoff action set to begin in late February, but the long 1986-87 men's interhall basketball season officially opened Monday with teams scrambling to get an early jump on the competition. 
As a result, several close games were battled out in the ACC intramural gyms this week, giving spectators and players a small sample of what lies ahead. 
As has been the case in recent years, men's play has 

.. been divided up between A divi­sions and B divisions, with champions to be named for each category. The A division consists of separate confer­ences titled Big Sky, ACC, and Big Ten, while the B division consists of the Pac-10, ECAC, SEC, and Major Independents conferences. Action began in the Big Sky Monday with St. Ed's A sneak­ing by Off-Campus A, 69-65, Stanford A downing Cavanaugh A, 57-43, and Keenan A1 beating Zahm A, 56­51. Keenan coach Mychal Schulz was one person particularly satisfied to get a quick victory, as he expects his team to step up this year and challenge for the conference title. "We played great for most of 
way we looked tonight, we can play with anybody -including (preseason favorites) Grace and Flanner. We have a lot of young players who will play much better after Christmas break." 
In the ACC division, mean­while, the trend of close games continued as OC-A edged Alumni Al, 54-53. Dillon Al, however, did not follow suit, trouncing Flanner A2, 88-30. 
As might be expected in such a case, the lopsided score had Dillon coach Frank Izzo anx­ious to get on to the next test. 
"It seemed like a physical mismatch," said Izzo after the Big Red's win. "We just played with great intensity. We're ex­cited about the season and are looking forward to making the playoffs." 
One team which is expected to give Dillon a good fight for the ACC crown, however, has not even played. Grace A2, usually one of the stonger campus teams, received a bye in the first round and will have to wait until after Christmas to play. 
"There are some impressive teams in our division this year," admitted Grace coach Jerry Melia. "But I feel this bye we received can only be bene­ficial to us. The guys can con­centrate on final exams and prepare for the dog days of Jan­uary and February." 
The Big Ten conference, nevertheless, may be the most 

the game," said Schulz. "The competitive division. Among 
The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Day Editors 
Those interested may come to or call The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune or call Lynne Strand at 283-3861 or Kim Yuratovac at 272-9361 . 
•
•
•
•
•
•
• • 


This is our last week · so don't miss the s~ecials!
•
• 

WED: Amstel Light Molson $.90 THURS: All Wine • Coolers $1 
FRI: Senior Club Cups $1 • Refills $. 75 
Saturday · Club is Closed 
the many strong teams playing in this grouping is last year's interhall champions, Sorin A, which survived an opening­round scare by nipping Fisher, 32-31, on Monday. Also on Mon­day, Holy Cross A whipped Dil­lon A2, 75-42. 

The B division may not com­prise as much talent, but the early games proved to be just as fierce. In the SEC confer­ence, O.C. blew past Morrisey B, 42-17, while in the PAC-10, Morrisey B Gold fell to Keenan B, 34-23. 
Also in B-division games, Cavanaugh B jumped out to the lead in the ECAC conference with a 40-37 win over Keenan C, while Dillon B2 did the same in the Major Independents by defeating Flanner 3B, 41-33. Defending B-champion Stan­ford has yet to play. 
Stanford, as well as all the other teams, will get plenty of chances to play when action resumes after the holidays. 

in the illegal actions that took place at SMU, or they should make sure they do not get an­other job at the college level. 
But in spite of these "downers" we can always look forward to the big New Year's Day bowl games, right? Wrong. Even the reliable Jan­uary 1 pick-me-up has failed me this year. Our friends at Miami and Penn State saw to that. 
This time, instead of renew­ing the tradition of plopping in front of the television to see who our new national cham­pion is going to be, we can get some extra sleep and we won't miss anything but a slew of mediocre games that will decide who has a shot at being ranked second. 
All the traditional New Year's Day games lack the glit­ter of years past. Oklahoma faces Arkansas in the Orange Bowl, which has decided the national champion the past few seasons. Not this year. The Cot­ton Bowl continues to slip, as Texas A & M will face Ohio Granddaddy of 'em all? Obvi­ously this granddaddy has not aged well. Michigan will try to break the Big Ten's dry spell. Good luck Bo. But even if they win, won't that just bring up more painful memories of how a pack of Gophers cost them a shot at No. 1. Of course, it is rather foolish to think about the possibility of Michigan winning anyway, isn't it? 
All the New Year's Day ex­citement has been delayed a day this year. The Fiesta Bowl won the bidding for the privilege to host the dream matchup between undefeated Miami and Penn State. Good old college football, the game played for fun, has beco~e a prize to be awarded to the high­est bidder. And then the highest bidder gets to name the day it would like the teams to play. Just great, isn't it? 
Merry Christmas everyone. 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 


Charge by phone 239-7 460 . 

--,. -~-..-----~ 
~.:Jt4tJil~~.........................................................
w.e.d.ne•s•d•ay•'•D•e•c•em..be•r•I•O•'•I9•86..-.pa•g•e..15 

Free Pregnancy Tests 234-0363 
-*****SAB and the Classes o£'88 & '89 present :**************lftf
* * 
SAB PRESENTS 



~ Decorate-a-tree :
Miracle on 34th Street 
.1 


! '-attheCSC ~ E 
.. "·~ 
----:~.~

Wednesday and Thursday '"' ~· ~... * ~ 4:30·6:30 pm *** 7,9,11 pm. 
~ ' Friday, Dec.12: 
Engineering Auditorium $1.50 
* Help the NIHP kld1, IHtle ~Htle llllen. taoulty'a
Absolutely no food or drink allowed * kldl deoqratellh-will be a Santa, candy oanea, ** * oqqkln, hql oqoqa, hqt older.•.lhen, alter G/H Club 
*

* Cqnoert: llelgh rldn • niC!f'e hqt oqoqa, older and 
* 

Do you believe in Santa Claus? , 
* oqqklnlll * * * 
~****************************************~ 
ACROSS 1 Seaweed 5 Fragrant tree 
10 Fasting 

period 14 Dies­15 Wonderland 
miss 

16 Anatomical passage 17 Keep-on 
(check) 18 Pharos 20 Clan symbol 22 Calmness 23 Sublease 25 --Coburg 26 Pantomime 
games 29 Basement 33 Travelers' 
accommodation t::-:--+--+--+-1----+--t--+­
34 Rambled 36 Bullring cheer 37 Footless 38 Perfume 
ingredient 39 Single time 12/10/86
1986 Tnbune Medta Serv•c~s. Inc 
All Rtghts Reserved

40 Mal de­41 Thrusting weapon 4 Annoyed 
42 Therefore, repeatedly in absurd 5 Made tranquil reasoning 6 Biblical 
43 The mind priest 45 Supports 7 Uses a spade 47 Israeli dance 8 Pains 49 Old sailors 9 Goes back 50 Ship accommo-over 
dation 10 Barrymore or 54 Stringed Stander 
instruments 11 Needle case 56 Distressing 12 Cozy place 58 Sudden attack 13 Low card 60 Goddess of 19 Jinxed 
discord 21 lsr. airline 61 Old card game 24-Haute 62 Division word 26 Titleholder 63 Fishing boat 27 Expects 
64 Scratches out 28 Rail birds 39 Musical 50 Coaster 
65 Polish river 30 NY area composition 51 Edible root 31 Highway to 41 Deprived 52 Eastern DOWN Alaska 42 King of the bigwig 1 A Carson 32 Film units Huns 53 Wanes 2 QED word 35 Infective 44 Shabby 55 Location 3 Research agent 46 Bank clientele 57 CSA general facility 38 Phone worker 48 Chameleon 59 Kind of beetle 
E A I E I N A 
N E N 0 S E L E N A rD. ~~J_ !_~ 
WA ''I"pO "I" s EO 
G A T E 

T A T T L E H I C C U P E 0 -H A AlE F I 
A E. A D H E S ftt-¥-J-~ 
0 *J_

8 E E A A I L E D 
T H A W 
C I 
A 
I 
T E K N E E
~ 
s ~A 
B 0 A 

GARM.l!U~I''''
A P I A D A 0 L L C 0 0 K V E N T E A A E D 
K A L E E D G E E D E N S 
S H E D 
12/10{86 

12:10-1:00 p.m.: Closed Meeting of Al­coholics Anonymous, Holy Cross House 
4:20 p.m.: Physics Colloquium, "Super­novae and Relativistic Heavy Ion Colli­sions. The Equation of State of Dense Nu­clear Matter," by Dr. Gerald Brown, SUNY at Stony Brook, ll8 Nieuwland Science Hall 
4:45-6:45 p.m.: University Food Sevices' ''Feast of Christmas." The South Dining Hall will feature a Christmas Dinner filled with holiday specialities and featuring a Madrigal Procession of the Comestibles, Adults $6.50, children $3.25 
5:00p.m.: Mass in memory of Michael C. Cogswell, Father Theodore Hesburgh, 
C.S.C. will celebrate the mass, Father David Tyson, C.S.C. will be the co­celebrant, Father Thomas King, C.S.C. will deliver the homily, Sacred Heart 
6:00 p.m.: SMC communal Celebration of Reconciliation, Regina Chapel 
6:00p.m.: Christmas party for all members of NSHP, sponsored by Neighborhood Study Help Program, CSC Coffee House 
7:00 p.m. Wednesday Night Film Series, "The Yellow Rolls-sRoyce," 1965, color, 122 minutes, Anthony Asquith, USA, Annen­
berg Auaditorium  
7:00 p.m.: Wrestling, ND vs. Wisconsin, Parkside, ACC  
7:00  p.m.:  AFROTC  DINING-IN,  

Monogram Room, ACC, Open to AFROTC cadets only 
7:00,9:00 & 11:00 p.m.: Moive, "Miracle on 34th Street," Engineering Auditorium, $1.50 
7: 15-8:30: Fellowship Meeting, the Spritual Rock of Notre Dame, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
8:00p.m.: Program of Liberal Studies and Medieval Institute Lecture, "The Ruthwell Cross," by Prof. Christopher Ball, Keble College, Oxford, 715 Memorial Library, public invited 
Christmas Party, Shakespeare Club, See Connie in the English Office for more details 
Christmas Card Sale, 6 for $1, call 1364,1387,1315 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

Feast of Christmas at South Dining Hall 
Saint Mary's 

Honey Glazed Boneless Breast of Chicken Roast Beef Au Jus 

Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
Wl/.i..,NOW / lr1K5. 6KIINotll NOW OfV.f... Paf' 115KCP If I Uf(}(J/.P .7fT fYJWN, HOWWYW ,%'WN Wmf >W Kl~ rat. 118(J(fftfffV(tmNG BEFM 1H€ /JIG r:HY 1lf/5 ttJVt't.Y 6/l?t. r IINP Jl/51... CHIIT. 
I 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
And for two excruciating months, he was simply known as "Skinhead of the Jungle." 
Campus The Daily Crossword
1 


~-­~ 
l ~~-~-----~...1t...~..................................................... ..be•r•1•0,•1•98•6•-•pa•g•e..16
w.e.dn.e.sd•a•y•,D•e•c•em 

~ ~ \rlllil!!IW'c1ilii'ID0Jt3Mi .,~"'?6' :;;q 

The Observel'IGreg Kohs Freshman guard Julie Garske, sporting a protective fasemask over her recently-fractured nose, came off the bench last night to score 14 points but it wasn't enough as Notre Dame fell to Indiana, 80-71. Marty Strasen has details of the game at right. 
Wisconsin-Parkside on tap at ACC 
Youth can't carry Irish to victory as Indiana drops ND's mark to 0-4 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Youth can be precious for the future of a basketball team, and while some young players showed flashes of what the fu­ture might hold Tuesday night, Head Coach Mary DiStanislao and the Notre Dame women's basketball team is more con­cerned about the present. 
Last night at the ACC, the present held yet another loss for the 0-4 Irish, as a disciplined Indiana team rode an impres­sive second-half shooting per­formance to an 80-71 triumph. The 0-4 start is the worst in the history of women's basketball at Notre Dame. 
"What you have is a lot of people out there who haven't logged a lot of playing time," DiStanislao said of her young squad, which played the Hoosiers to a 29-29 tie at halftime, but which could not overcome some hot shooting by the Hoosiers' Karna Abram (24 points, 18 in the second half). "It showed. They fouled the 
wrong  people  and  took  the  
wrong  shots  at  the  wrong  
times.  


NAIA power will test ND wrestlers 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
The Wisconsin-Parkside wrestling team may have NAIA, Division II status, but the Notre Dame wrestling team is anything but overcon­fident going into tonight's match with the Rangers at 7 
p.m. in the ACC Pit. 
"We better be ready or we'll get beat otherwise," said Irish head coach Fran McCann. "(Wisconsin-Parkside) has had a solid program for years. I think they have better people than Air Force." 
Air Force defeated Notre Dame in the season-opening match for Notre Dame. The Irish have not competed in a dual meet since that loss to the Falcons. 
Notre Dame will have to compete without 158-pound junior Dan Carrigan, who may be out for the rest of the season with an injured knee. Fresh­man Michael Sheets, who won the high school state champi­onship at Nevada last season, will take Carrigan's place. 
Other starters for the Irish will be 118-pound freshman Andy Radenbaugh, 126-pound senior Greg Fleming, 134­pound sophomore captain Jerry Durso, 142-pound sophomore Pat Boyd, 150-pound junior Ron Wisniewski, 167-pound sopho­more Chris Geneser, 177-pound senior Tom Ryan, and 190­pound senior Dave Helmer. The match will be televised by Sports Vision on a later date. 
"Wisconsin-Parkside is al­ways one of the top schools in the NAIA and Division II. I only know a couple of their kids, but they're tough hard-nosed guys," said McCann. "We have to go out with a lot of aggres­siveness, and we'd like to get a good crowd." 
McCann also stressed the im­portance of a strong perfor­mance by Radenbaugh in the opening 118-pound match. 
"It sets the tempo. It's ex­tremely important to get a good start," noted McCann. "That's what we're hoping to get with Andy this week." 
Radenbaugh likes the pres­sure of being one of the first 
see IRISH, page 12 


The Observel'IGreg Kohs The Notre Dame wrestling team will take to to Division II power Wisconsin-Parkside. Steve the mats of the ACC Pit tonight as it plays host Megargee previews the meet above. 
"Sandy Botham (14 points) and Mary Gavin (10 points) are the only ones out there with any substantial amount of experi­ence. But when you play close games against top teams like Indiana, it can only help some­where down the line. We'll be OK." 
The Hoosiers played aggres­sive man-to-man defense most of the game, cutting off the passing lanes inside and forc­ing the Irish to rely on what is supposedly their weakness-­outside shooting. But Notre Dame found the points they needed in the hot hands of soph­omore Diondra Toney, who led the Irish with 18 points, and freshman Julie Garske, who showed no fear of shooting the jumper in netting 7-of-10 shots for 14 points off the bench. 
"Diondra is an excellent player," DiStanislao said. "She's got moves, she showed she can shoot and she handles the ball well. Julie's got a bit to learn about the game, but she's got the talent to be a good col­lege basketball player. 
"(Indiana's) defense was good, but that's the way teams are going to play us. We need to get better position inside, but a lot of those problems were just the way Indiana was playing." 
After nine lead changes in the first half resulted in a halftime tie, the Hoosiers quickly opened up a six-point lead only two minutes into the final frame, at 37-31. They never looked back. 
Gavin, who runs the Irish of­fense at point guard, was sidelined with four fouls for more than three minutes of the half, further testing Notre Dame's youth on the floor. Toney, Garske, and Botham, who finally found her mark from the inside, kept Notre Dame within five, but the Irish were unable to cut the lead to less than three the rest of the way. 
The Hoosiers hit on 15-of-19 free throws down the stretch to seal the win, raising their record to 3-1. Indiana outshot the Irish by a .583 -.543 margin, with the rebounding edge going to Notre Dame, 31-25. The Irish also turned the ball over 21 times to the Hoosiers' 17. 
see HOOSIERS, page 12 

College grid season now all Scrooged up 
'Tis the season to be jolly. 

Ho hum. Somehow I am not feeling all that jolly these days. Maybe it's because finals are fast approaching. Highly possible but highly improbable. 
It could be because it's raining in December. That can't be it because it always rains and it usually doesn't bother me. 
I think it's because several developments in the sports world have dampened my enthusiasm. Take the Reisman Trophy "race" as an example. How can anyone get excited when Vinny Testaverde all but 

Rick 
Rietbro~k 
Irish Items 
wrapped up the award when Miami beat Oklahoma? Brent Musburger told the national television audience during one of Testa verde's touchdown runs that they should bring out Vinny's Reisman. Evidently they did. 
Paul Palmer, Brain Bosworth, Jim Harbaugh, and the rest of college football were told they were still in the running, but that wasn't the case. Testaverde would have had to fall into a black hole to lose this year's race. And even then he would have finished a close second. 
It',s not that he didn't deserve the award. I just would like a little suspense involved when there are so many great college football players in the nation, many that television can't help as much as it helped Testaverde. 
Another disturbing situation came out of Texas. The SMU Mustangs are in deep trouble with the long arm of the NCAA and face the possibility of losing its football program to the NCAA's "death penalty." That's great because SMU has broken nearly every rule listed, and most of them at least twice. 
The problem is that Bob Hitch and Bobby Collins have resigned from their Athletic Director and Head Coach pos­itions. So while the university will suffer the consequences of its actions, and rightly so, Hitch and Collins will get away without facing the penalties. 
They can apply at other schools and rake in big bucks, build another football program by doing whatever it takes, and laugh while doing it. SMU, meanwhile, will see its football program crumble and watch the principal parties to the crimes get away without suffering. 
There's something wrong here. 
Either the NCAA should make sure that Col lins and 
see SCROOGE, page 14 





