Touche Ross -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 54 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Theodore's to close 2 days for damage 
budget, Willis said. "The sound 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
News Editor system and the piano are on Theodore's budget," he said. 
Theodore's will be closed for Willis said the budget for the two days because of damage in­club comes directly from Stu­flicted on the club during the dent Activities. last few weekends. 
Vince Willis, general Willis said the management manager of Theodore's, said staff of Theodore's has been the club will be closed Wednes­controlling the club successful­day and Thursday. He said the ly. He said someone could do decision to close was made by damage to something and gothe management staff of unseen. "There's twenty of us Theodore's Sunday morning. in there working," he said. "I have not as of yet passed "They are obviously not goingthis news on to the administra­to do (something) right in front tion," he said. of us. 
"The students should realize Damage to the club, Willis this is their club," he added. said, was "blatant." Notre Dame Security has 
"A very small minority were said its officers would drop by causing the problems," he Theodore's regularly as part of said. "They were deliberately their beat in LaFortune, accor­kicking in walls, doors, the ding to Willis. "Up to this point, backing of chairs, ..." Willis we haven't seen them too said there was also damage much." Willis said he was plan­done to the bathroom. ning to contact Security Direc­
"Unfortunately there's al­tor Rex Rakow and ask him to ways a couple of (people) who clarify when officers will patrol have to ruin it for everyone the club. "Some nights we else," Willis added. have a couple thousand people 
Willis said he was unsure drop by," he said. "You would about how much the damage think it would be a pretty heavy 

A fan from the White House 
would cost to repair. area for (Security) to be in." After descending from Airforce II, Vice Presi­Airport on his way to the Notre Dame-Penn The furniture for Theodore's dent George Bush greets University President State game last Saturday. came out of the renovation see THEODORE's, page 4 Theodore Hesburgh at the Michiana Regional 

Pardon of Hasenfus' 30-year ter·m unlikely, minister says 
Associated Press handed down the verdict and his stand on a possible pardon "The 30 years for Hasenfus .."3o Sandinista prisoners for the sentence. "The Nicaraguan is not known. are a penalty for Yankee inter-. Hasenfus and five other cap­
MANAGUA, Nicaragua-Jus­penitentiary system will Reyes, chief prosecutor in ventionism," El Nuevo Diario -"tives. tice Minister Rodrigo rejected guarantee that he fulfills his the case, said, "If a pardon is said. on Sunday the possibility of sentence." applicable, I am sure there will It quoted unidentified The sentence handed down pardoning American Eugene be a rejection by the population Nicaraguan legal authorities Saturday by the three-member Hasenfus, who drew 30 years Earlier remarks by Presi­and the authorities would have as saying "this sentence should People's Tribunal includes the in prison for his part in a weap­dent Daniel Ortega had fed to explain that step very well." hit the eardrums of President maximum 30 years in prison ons delivery flight to U.S.­speculation that Hasenfus, 45, Reagan (who should) observe for violating the maintenance backed Contra rebels. of Marinette, Wis., might even­Pro-government newspapers that his obstinate intention of of order and public security 
''There is no reason to pardon tually be pardoned. on Sunday billed the verdict destroying the revolution will and the maximum three years him," Reyes told The Associ­Ortega has not commented against Hasenfus as a convic­have severe responses." for criminal association, with ated Press by telephone one on the case since the American tion of the United States as The government earlier the sentences to be served con­day after a political court mercenary was convicted and well. rejected a Contra offer to swap currently. 
U.S. should send no more arms to Iran, Shultz says 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State George Shultz said Sun­day the United States should make no more arms shipments to Iran, contending "I don't see any need for further signals" of U.S. good faith to moderate Iranians. 
Meanwhile, John Poindexter, President Reagan's national security adviser, said the U.S. arms embargo against Iran still stands and said he remains optimistic that more hostages may be released by pro-Iran forces in Lebanon. 
But Robert McFarlane, former national security ad­viser who made at least one se­cret trip to Iran, said his con­tacts among moderate Iranians are in danger of being killed now that his efforts have been made public. 
Senate Democratic leader Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.V., urged the administration to state publicly that there would be no more arms shipments to Iran "or any other terrorist state." A congressional inves­tigation into administration dealings with Iran, which Reagan denies were direct negotiations for the release of hostages, is to begin this week. 
President Reagan, returning to the White House from Camp David, brushed aside a reporter's question as to whe­ther he had stopped arms ship­ments to Iran, saying, "I told you the truth once." The pres­ident did not pause as he es­corted Nancy Reagan into the White House. 



N. Korean leader dies in shooting 
Associated Press its hourly newscast at 11 loudspeakers at the front 
a.m. Monday (9p.m. Sunday line said on Sunday Kim 11 

SEOUL, South Korea -EST). Radio Press said the Sung had been shot and 
North Korean loudspeakers hourly news program was killed.'' 
along the demilitarized zone covering standard material He added that regular 
said North Korean President such as farmers' experi­North Korean radio broad­
Kim 11 Sung had been killed ences and the need for self­casts monitored here had 
in a shooting, according to sufficiency. made no mention of such a 
the South Korean Defense There was no explanation happening, and that no con­
Ministry in a broadcast why Communist North firmation had been received 
today on state-run radio. Korea would disclose the in­through other channels. 
The same broadcast said formation through the Lee said the South Korean 
there was no confirmation of loudspeakers along the military was on its usual 
the report from North demilitarized zone that alert, but gave no other 
Korean radio broadcasts or divides the peninsula. They details immediately. 
sources here in the capital normally are used for Police officials announced 
of South Korea. propaganda broadcasts that the entire national 
In Tokyo, Radio Press, a beamed to the south. police force had been placed Japanese news agency that on full alert "in connection monitors Communist bloc Lee Heung-shik, spokes­with the recent situation in broadcasts, said North man for the South Korean North Korea and to block Korea's official Radio Pyon­Defense Ministry, said in a possible subversive at­gyang did not say anything brief announcement, "North tempts by impure ele­about Kim or a shooting in Korean propaganda ments." 
The Observer Monday, November 17, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
A bomb explosion heavily damaged an IBM research center on Sunday in Heidelberg, West Germany, but caused no casualties. In a letter found nearby, a group calling itself the Hind Alameh Fighting Cell claimed re­sponsibility for the attack. Hind Alameh, a member of the Red Army Faction terrorist group, was killed in a 1977 airliner hijacking. -Associated Press 
Animal rights groups have lost a major battle in their court fight to modify or abolish animal experimentation on college campuses. The U.S. Court of Appeals ruled that People for Ethical Treatment of Animals should not be able to interfere easily in animal research lab operations. 
-The Observer 

Free tuition for a year will be awarded to 40 lucky Ohio State University students who deposit $250 in a new student checking account at a local bank. Winners will be selected in a drawing of the names of those holding the new ac­counts. Additional prizes include $500, $250, and $100 in cash. -The Observer 
Three high school students accused of spiking a teacher's coffee with LSD will be expelled if convicted or if they admit responsibility, their principal said. Police arrested the boys after Lou Hammer, an industrial arts teacher at the school, became disoriented and was taken to a doctor Friday afternoon. A student told school officials that he heard LSD, a hallucinogenic drug, had been put in Ham­mer's coffee. -Associated Press 
President Hafez Assad denied Syria was involved in terrorism and accused President Reagan and Prime Min­ister Thatcher on Sunday of being, the "real terrorists" and trying to bully Syria. "We are against terrorism ... and do not allow anyone to hatch terrorist plots from our territory," Assad told about 7,000 people at a Damascus stadium. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Chamber Music," a one-act play by Arthur Kopit, will premier as a Saint Mary's Studio Theatre production today, Tuesday, and Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the campus Clubhouse. It is open to the public, and admission is free, although buying tickets in advance is encouraged due to the limited number of available seats. -The Observer 
The Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organization needs teacher applicants in all fields from kindergarten through college to fill over six hundred teaching vacancies both at home and abroad. For more information, write The Na­tional Teacher's Placement Agency, Universal Teachers, Box 5231, Portland, Oregon 97208. -The Observer 
Apple Computer's "Wheels for the Mind" contest is open to college students, faculty and staff who have developed outstanding educational applications which run on Apple computers and are currently in use. Entries must be received by February 28, 1987, for the $20,000 grand prize. For more information, write "Wheels for the Mind Awards," Apple Computer, Inc., 20525 Mariani Avenue, MS 23-E, Cupertino, Calif. 95014. -The Observer 

Weather 
Enjoy it while the temperature is still above your age. Partly sunny today with the high in the mid to upper 40s. Partly cloudy tonight with the low around 30. Mostly cloudy on Tuesday with the high in the low 40s. -Associated Press 

= 


Ihe ObserYer-_ -:-... 
Design Editor ................. Chris Bowler Desiga Assistant ....... Tom Schiesser Layout Staff... . . . . Carolyn Rey Typesetters...... . ....... Pat Clarke ........................................ Chris Reardon ............................................ Smed Laboe News Editor................ .. .. Jim Riley Copy Editor .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . Chris Julka Sports Copy Editor.......... Marty Strasen 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .... Eric Bergamo Viewpoint Layout .... ..... Melissa Warnke Accent Copy Editor .......... Lisa Young Accent Layout.... .. .. Melinda Murphy Typists... .. .. .. .. . . .. Colleen Foy ND Day Editor...... .. Laurine Megna Ad Design..... .. ........ Fred Nelson Photographer.......... .. .. .. . . Damian Chin 

Tile Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing Tile Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile Oblener is a member of Tile Auodaled Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Complacency can be a virtue before frantic senior year 
Complacency. 
I do not think that complacency is such a nasty word. We all feel complacent with what we ·are doing or where we are going at some time. As a matter of fact, complacency is what a great deal of people long for in their lives, all of their lives. 
Personally, I do not feel complacent about most of the things that I do. Maybe it is because I have read too many of the autobiographies lining modern bookshelves (i.e. Iacocca, Yeager, etc.). I feel like there is always a better way to do something than the way I happened to have done it. I always believe that there is room for improvement in what I do, new places about which to learn. 
I have learned a great deal about com­placency in society from my reflections on my hometown. Coming from New Orleans, I was one of few people from my high school who wanted to go "away" to college. When I said that I wanted to go to Notre Dame, many people asked me why I would want to leave such a great town. In New Orleans there is an abun­dance of rather raucous fun, great food, friendly people and consistently warm weather. 
I was often told by friends in New Orleans that I could get just as good an education at LSU as I could at Notre Dame. In some ways agree with them; if one applies himself, there is no limit to what one can learn despite the reputation of a university. However, I still decided to go to Notre Dame and publicized my reason for doing so as a desire to chase a dream. Now, I would like to believe that I was confusing a dream with the desire to do something differ­ent and to break out of the complacent mindset that I felt was prevalent in my hometown. 
When I came to Notre Dame, I certainly did find a new way of life. I met myriads of different people from all over the country. There were different lifestyles, different manners of speech and different nationalities under the Dome. I experienced snow and learned to get along with­out all of the rich, spicy food. I found out that the grass was not necessarily greener in the other fellow's yard but rather that there was another yard out there to explore. 
I am a junior now. I have been here for over two years and have learned the ropes. I have made many friends; I have made some enemies. Nevertheless, as I commented to someone this weekend after listening to a group of seniors sentimentalize, I am cloaked in the complacency of being a junior. 


This year is not the one in which I will set the stage for an onslaught of grey hair. I will begin to think of a career, but I really feel no pressure. As a junior, I am sitting back and watching many of my senior friends frantically pull out their hair and wonder what they are going to be doing ten years from now. For the first time in my life, complacency is not so bad. 
I have grown up since I came to Notre Dame. The complacent attitude I once thought I hated does not seem so bad to me now. I still believe in doing things better and getting different perspectives and striving to be the best; but, for the brief time that I have as a junior, I do not mind being somewhat complacent. 
The folks in New Orleans had a good point. A certain brand of complacency is not so bad. I am going to enjoy this good thing while I have it; it seems like it will be terribly hard to leave. 

Monday, November 17, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 
5 new members added to Board of Regents 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Five new members were added to the ranks of the Saint Mary's College Board of Regents this year, including Sister Rose Anne Schultz, who was appointed acting chair­man. 
Other new members include Sister Geraldine Blume, Geral­dine Corbin, Virginia Collins and Rebecca Hetland. 
Schultz said she is optimistic about the role of the Board in implementing the basic values of the College. 
"At Saint Mary's, we're proud of the academic excel­lence, and the fact that as we meet the graduates a few years after they leave Saint Mary's, it's quite clear they're being strong Christian witnesses." 
"It is more difficult each year as more people move into the market place to maintain that Christian witness. We keep strengthening that at Saint Mary's," Schultz said. 
Schultz said she also intends "to expand the multi-cultural dimension at Saint Mary's in the faculty and the student body." She said she realizes this has to be a long-term plan, however. 
"Regents are elected for a 
three-year term, and they are 
eligible for a second three-year 
term with the following excep­
tions: the president of the 
Alumnae Board who serves a 
one-year term, the student 
regent who is selected for a 
one-year term, and the presi­dent of the College, who is a member for as long as the in­dividual holds the title," said William Hickey, president of the College. 
Collins, president of the Alumnae Association this year, said Hickey and Schultz act as ex-officio members to the Board. 
"That means you're a mem­ber by title with a vote. You can attend all of the committee meetings and vote at all of them or pick out one or two of interest to you," said Hickey. 
Collins' chief goals for her term include "increasing alumnae awareness of the needs and situation of the Col­lege as it is today and encour­aging expanded Alumnae par­ticipation." 
The Board is composed of seven different committees: the Committee on Education, Finance, Student Life, Devel­opment, Regents, Investment and Mission. 
"The Regents Committee presents the names of the nominees each year, and the Mission Committee's function is to become aware of the ways in which the College is imple­menting the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross," said Hickey. 
Hickey said the Mission Com­mittee is temporary and has existed for only two years. 
Hetland is the student repre­sentative for the Board this year. 
The student regent is chosen by a process in which "a letter goes out from the Dean of Stu­


Maureen Kibelstis and Mike Songer keep the Team. The event took place from 10 a.m. wheels turning in in the Crew Team Ergothon, Thursday to noon Saturday. 
a fund raiser for Special Olympics and the Crew 
dents, Sister Karol Jackowski, to second-semester juniors, and any student who is inter­ested in being considered for the position has to submit an application in which she indi­cates why she wants to be a regent and how she might rep­resent the students," said Hick­ey. 
"I would say they're looking for a good academic record but also a lot of involvement in dif­ferent activities. They're looking for a student who would represent a good percentage of the student body," said Het­land. 
Hetland serves on the Stu­dent Life Committee and the Mission Committee for the Board. "I believe in the goal of the institution as a women's 
Catholic liberal arts institu-

MORGAN STANLEY 
will host an informal reception to discuss two-year job opportunities for 1987 graduates as 
Financial Analysts 
•
m Investment Banking 

Monday, November 17, 1986 8:00p.m. Notre Dame Room Morris Inn 
tion, and I wanted to become a regent because I'd like to see the College grow in this mis­sion.'' 
Sister Geraldine Blume's long-term goal for the Board is to "contribute to the better­ment of the College as a Cath­olic women's college." 
Blume is the principal of the Academy of the Holy Cross (an all-female secondary school), and she works on the Education Committee for the Board. 
"There is a compatible rela­tionship between an all-girls' Catholic high school and an all­womens' Catholic College," she said. 
Geraldine Corbin, a Saint Mary's alumna, is a Program Development Specialist for Continuing Education at Geor­gia State University. She is ser­vmg on the Education Committee. 
"I'd like to serve the College in helping them meet future goals, particularly in the area of diversification. 
"I think the current admin­istration, faculty and student body may be articulating the need for diversification now," she said. 
"Diversification in a Catho­lic women's college would have to be within limits. Beyond (the obvious) designations, there's room for diversification in race, culture and religion. 
"Diversification touches all of us; it is part of a well­rounded education. This should be an understanding of our own enrichment and growth," Cor­bin said. 
...~-------------------------. 
!Bd?rzld\1c!J 'c:S 
{\~\~\ p~~ ~ aub Jramilu fRt.atauraut 
Bruno's now delivers FREE to ND and SMC campuses. (Delivery starting Monday, Nov. 17) 
n ()() all toppings 61C> ~':I' '--.si 
\'J;'J;'3-Follow 23 South to: q~8'be-<:< 2610 Prairie Ave. 8qv.s.'y'3-~ Sou..th Benet QB~ 
288-3320 
CONSULTANTS TO INTERNATIONAL FIRMS 
We have clients seeking qualified individuals with language and area expertise regarding foreign markets. Part-time and full-time assignments avaiable. Foreign nationals with advance degrees from american universities needed as visa restrictions will not effect certain projects. Expertise in technical, economic, or scientific fields is required. 
Send resume, including telephone number to: 
Swenson, Crawford &Paine Executive Search Division P.O. Box A-3629 Chicago, IL 60690 
The Observer Monday, November 17, 1986-page 4 
.-----University of Notre Dame College of 
Fugitives foiled by wedding rings 
Associated Press get married and would buy they were buying. . . . People jewelry. don't spend just 10 or 15 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -A minutes on that size pur­pair of fugitive lovers, reunited Carol Folsom, assistant chase," Ms. Folsom said. She in a daring helicopter escape manager at Merksamer said a cash-down payment was from prison, were tracked Jewelers, said the couple had made Monday, and the balance down by agents who monitored visited the store twice before. was paid by check Tuesday. a checking account used to pay She said store officials became for their wedding rings, aut­suspicious because they took Sales clerk Patty Morris said horities said. only moments to pick out and Sunday that the couple had 
U.S. marshals said they ar­buy about $5,500 worth of returned Saturday to pick up a 
rested Ronald J. Mcintosh and jewelry. two-ring wedding set for Lopez, Samantha Dorinda Lopez at a and that they were to have 
suburban shopping mall Satur­"They were very nice pieces returned this week for a ring day when they tried to pick up of jewelry, but they had very for Mcintosh that had been sent her wedding ring set. little consideration as to what out for engraving. 


Before the two were driven away from the mall in separate police cars, Mcintosh leaned out the window of his car and yelled "I love you!" to Lopez. 
They were scheduled for ar­raignment in federal court Monday on charges of hijack­ing, escape and kidnapping, said Inspector Louis Stefanelli of the marshal's office. 
Mcintosh and Lopez worked together at the country-club style federal prison at Pleasan­ton and often were seen walking together and holding hands, which is allowed there, said Warden Rob Roberts. 
Federal authorities said Mcintosh was arrested at Merksamer Jewelers and Lopez was picked up in a nearby store at the Birdcage Walk shopping mall in Citrus Heights, about 10 miles north­east of downtown Sacramento. 
"We caught them completely by surprise," said Chief Dep­uty Marshal David Stanton. "We'd been trailing them and had some very good leads due to the photograph that was out. We found out they'd been in the mall area and were going to return." 
Marshals said they traced the couple to the store by mon­itoring a checking account that Mcintosh kept under the alias Lyle Thompson. They said they were alerted when a $4,600 check to the jewelry store cleared the bank Thursday. 
Prosecutors said they feared Mcintosh, 43, might have had access to as much as $2 million. He pleaded guilty earlier this year to state charges in an $18 million San Francisco-based futures scam and was finishing a federal sentence for wire fraud before serving four years on the state conviction. 
U.S. Marshal Arthur Van Court said investigators believed the couple wanted to 
Theodore's 
continued from page 1 
Willis said he would like to have a security officer at the club permanently. He said Se­curity is usually cooperative with students and there should be no problem with getting an officer. 
Willis added it is the respon­sibility of the management staff of the club to prevent a small group from "messing it up for others." 
"It won't be tolerated," he 
said. 
~ Anti-VIolence Activist 
(;en"r lor THchlng Non-Violence & NCTV lull·llme stall. Lodging !. S3251mo. ReHarch on aggression, publishing & lobbying -!nat violence in TV, film. war toya, aporia. erotica. etc. Non-violenl filme. Next to U IIHnois. Student loaM dalarallle. 217-JIW-11120. 
P.O. Box 2157, Cllampaign IL 811120 

Long Island Club CHRISTMAS PLANE 
Seats still available and not restricted to only Long Island Club members. 
GOING HOME: Leaving Michiana Regional Airport 20 Dec. (Sat.) 12:40 AM 
Arriving LaGuardia 2:20 AM RETURN to N.D.: Leaving LaGuardia, 12 Jan. 9:30 PM :
... 
Arriving Michiana Regional 11:10 PM 
PRICE: A round-trip ticket is $210 
SIGN-UPS: 19 Nov. (Wed.) from 7 -9 pm in the basement of Lafortune 
Call if you have any questions: Tom Cummings 1.310 or 1.307 Matt McCabe 4.362 Mike Kozlik .3122 Mary Grace Giorgio 27.35 

Business Administration The 0 Neil lecture Series SPEAKER: Dr. Anthony V. Sinicropi, John F. Murray Professor of Industrial Relations and Human Resources, University of Iowa.  
TOPIC: "The Ethics of Conflict Resolution" DATE: Tuesday, November 18, 1986 TIME&PLACE 12:15 pm-Faculty Seminar Board Room Hayes-Healy Building All members of the University of Notre Dome Faculty ore invited. 4:15pm-Lecture and Discussion Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) Faculty, Stott, Students and the public ore invited.  
Dr. Anthony V. Sinicropi Professor Sinicropi is a nationally-recognized arbitrator. He has held the following positions at the University of Iowa: Director, Graduate Studies in Business; Chairman, Department of Business Administration; Director, Industrial Relations Institute; and Chairman, Department of Indus­trial Relations and Human Resources.  


STUDENT HAIRCARE SAVINGS! 
r------·COUPON SAVINGS-------.
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT : 
I Reg. $8 Ma~~ :
l-------------------,
:$1 OFF STUDENT CUT 1 
~ Reg. $8 Ma~~
r-------------------1:
:ssOFF ANY PERM : 
I ~~I 
~------------------~ 
MasterCuts 
family haircutters 
"University Park Mall" 
2n-Jno 
"ie~~_O_i_n__t______________Mo-nday-,No-vemb-er17-,198-6-p-ages 
Congress can build on good and learn from bad 
There is an old theory concerning the voting tendencies of the American people. It has been proven true on in­numerable occasions in the long history of our great Republic. It is one of the things that has made America what it is: the most powerful and respected free country in the world. It holds that just as movement any further in one ideological direction would begin to seriously endanger the future of our great democratic Republic, the people of America begin to move in another. 
John Jaspers 
guest column 
No revolution can last forever, nor would we want it to. In 1949, the Chinese communist revolution succeeded in putting China firmly on the path to per­manent national independence. Not content with this, Chairman Mao tried to keep the People's Republic of China in a state of perpetual revolution. At first this led to progress, but the end result of permanent revolution was chaos. 
Only since 1979, with the coming-to­power of Deng Xiao Ping, has the era of revolution in China been perma­nently put to rest. By keeping and build­ing on what was good in the revolution and discarding what was not, the Chinese have since begun the new Long March to national development. 
For six years, the "Reagan Revolu­tion" has spread throughout the land. Though this "revolution" is on a com­pletely different level than the Chinese one, the revolutionary lesson of the Chinese still holds. In these six years, much good has been done. But also, much bad has been done. It is time to recognize and build on the good, while discarding the bad. 
We have built up the nation's strength. The American Navy, in par­ticular, is much more capable of car­rying out its primary mission, the securing of the seas, than it was before. The Army and the Air Force are also stronger. But some of the central prob­lems of our defense have gone virtually ignored. 
For the last six years, the present administration has been gleefully throwing buckets of money down the bottomless and wasteful pit of Star Wars research for already almost ob­solete B-1 bombers, a DIVAD <Divisional Air Defense) system that even Secretary of Defense Weinberger 
Doonesbury 
ultimately came out against, and the "Peacekeeper" M-X missile (by the way, the original justification for the M-X was that the old Minutemen were too vulnerable to Soviet surprise attack in their silos.) All the while we have neglected to think about how we would repulse a conventional Soviet attack against our European or Asian allies. 
Even more worrying, we have yet to work out an effective strategy for the use of U.S. forces in limited situations. Remember, Vietnam was not the only place we pulled out of in defeat-it wasn't very long after the truck bombing in Beirut that U.S. forces left that country too. In neither of these cases were American troops defeated on the field of combat. They were defeated by the lack of an effective strategy. Six years ago we had no effective strategy for these situations and today we still do not. 
The economy today is better in some ways than when President Reagan en­tered office, but worse in others. Yes, except for the 1982 Recession, we have enjoyed moderate and slow growth in our economy. A much-needed tax reform was finally, after much presidential pressure and almost heroic persistence, signed into law a few weeks ago. But here too, problems, big problems, have been created or gone unaddressed. 
The first is the national debt. When running for office, President Reagan promised to balance the federal budget. Since then, his administration has run up more debt in six years than all of the previous administrations did in the prior 204. Are "Borrow and Spend" policies any better than "Tax and Spend" ones? 
Our international trade position has 
been seriously weakened in the last six 
years. For the first time since World 
War I, we are a debtor nation. In 1980, 
America was still the world's biggest 
creditor. We are now the world's big­
gest debtor. 
President Reagan must be credited 
with holding the line on protectionism. 
Without his personal political bravery, 
we might well have had a catastrophic 
protectionist trade bill throw us into an­
other depression. Remember, it was a 
protectionist trade bill, and the trade 
war that followed, that threw the U.S. 
and the world into the Great Depression 
in the 1930s. 
Still, the trade issue must be dealt with. The present administration is not giving effective leadership in the struggle to make America competitive again. It seems as if the present admin­istration is willing to let America go from an industrial economy to a "hamburger economy." This is beneath America's dignity. A country backed only by a hamburger economy cannot stand tall in the family of na­tions. With half the population of America, Japan graduates twice as many engineers. But we have more fast-food joints. Who is ahead? This is a situation that can no longer be ig­nored, as it has been these last six years. 

On a Catholic campus, the abortion issue is an important one. President Reagan has frequently stated his oppo­sition to abortion. This is apparently sufficient to garner him many Catholic votes. However, he has done nothing about it. Does it make any difference what a man's personal views are if he does absolutely nothing about them? 
A week ago Tuesday the American people went to the polls. Recognizing that the group that had CO!lle to power in 1981 had· gone far enough, they decided to change the course. The people they elected, a Democratic majority in the House and Senate, will begin to lead the nation down a new course. 
They will begin to discard what is bad in the present administration. But they will build upon the good achieved in Ronald Reagan's presidency, as he prepared for a peaceful, well-earned re­tirement after a long second career devoted to public service. In two years' time, we as American citizens will .select a man (or a woman), to fill the office of the Presidency of the United States when Ronald Reagan is no longer able to. That man (or woman) will then proceed to lead America on a new course. 
President Reagan's Old Guard has served the Republic well, but in Janu­ary of 1989, it will be time for a new generation of leadership to take the helm and lead America to her rendez­vous with destiny. 
John Jaspers is a fourth year mechan­ical engineering and government and international studies major. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Voters gave control of Senate to Democrats 
Dear Editor: 

Our response to Rich Coglianese's Nov. 10 Viewpoint article, "Elections May be Demise of 'Reagan Revolu­tion'," will contain no personal slurs against members of the Supreme Court or Republican Senators. Unlike Coglianese, we feel that slurs of this type have no place in a supposedly thought-provoking article. 
The majority of those people who ex­ercised their right of suffrage in the past election willingly chose to put an end to the so-called "Reagan Revolu­tion." Unsatisfied with what the Republicans did while in control of the Senate, the voters cast their ballots for many Democrat Senate candidates thus giving control of the Senate to the Democrats. 
The vote is in. The count is tallied. The American people have spoken. Nov. 6, 1986, is not a day that will live in infamy, but rather one that will be remembered as the day when the majority of those who cared enough to 
Garry Trudeau 

vote chose to place the Senate in the hands of those capable of producing the desired results. 
We have presented our opinion of Decision '86 devoid of any vicious com­ments about the personal lives of mem­bers of the government of the United States. Coglianese, we wish we could say the same thing about you. 
Julie M. Fessel Christina M. Duffy Donna A. Renaldo Valerie C. Lamanna Lewis Hall 

Promotion 
Sophomore Chris Murphy and Freshman Sara Marley have been . 
named assistant Viewpoint editors, joining senior Maura Mandyck on the staff. 
Murphy is a 'resident of St. Louis and enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters. Marley, from South Bend, is in the Freshmen Year of Studies. 
Quote of the day 
"You must look into people, as well as at them." 
Lord Chesterfield (1694-1773) 

Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Advertismg Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 

Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby · 
The Observer is the indep~ndent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan sity of Notre Dame du lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz . 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ............ : .... Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon their authors. Column space is availablt~ to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 
--------------------~­
Accent 
Monday, November 17, 1986-page 6 
Let's get stressed 


Before and after in this week.'s soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: After get-her of their child. Anna snuck in 
ting permission to marry Jeremy to see Duke to tell him she loves 
in jail, Erica schemed to use a him. Lucy got hold ofGretchen's 
diversion to help him break out. file. Coming: Scorpio's plan 
Posing as Stuart, Adam learned depends on when Ramsey will 
that Tad may have beaten him act. 
on a deal. Palmer told Natalie GUIDING LIGHT: Everyone was 
he'll pay for Timothy's medical shocked by Jean Claud's sudden 
tests. Coming: Jeremy's life is in death. Chelsea's plans worried 
danger again. Bea. Kyle thought about Reva. 
ANOTHER WORLD: Brittany Baby Ben's future was still up in 
shot Peter who was rushed to the the air. Coming: Kyle is surprised 
hospital in critical condition. The by a visitor. 
Love family doctor told Michael KNOTS LANDING: Update not 
her condition is getting worse. available as of presstime. 
Mitch insisted he didn't kidnap LOVING: Stacey gave birth to 
Matthew. Peter told Brittany he a baby boy. Trisha vowed never 
will clear her of the shooting if to see her family again. Nick 
she never tells Reginald that threatened to use Harry's gam­
Peter is the father of their baby. bling debts against him unless 
Coming: Donna responds he got access to Steve's garage 
quickly to Gomez's treatments. and truck. Jack rescheduled his 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Dusty brain surgery. Coming: Shana 
remained uncertain about his and Jim make a decision about 
real feelings for Meg. Duncan their future. 
stumbled into a dangerous twist ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Vickie was 
in his search. Sierra knew she shocked when Clint produced 
had to make a decision about the red wig that was found in her 
Tanio and Craig. Coming: Iva trunk. Cord and Tina frolicked on 
has second thoughts about an Devil's Claw unaware of the dan­
important decision. ger around them. Jon seduced 
CAPITOL: Meredith realized Agrippina to find the microphone 
she had to act on her real containing the national security 
feelings about Dylan. Sloane secrets. Coming: Tom's defense 
worried about the continuing fall of Vickie worries Clint. 
out from Zed's insistence that RYAN'S HOPE: Delia tried to 
she attend the wedding. Man­pawn Maggie's necklace to raise 
ning's past yielded more mys­money to buy off Harlan. Diana 
teries. Coming: Kelly's decision told Max she won't challenge 
could backfire. Frank for D.A. Harlan tried to at-
DALLAS: J.R. got shocking tack Delia who kneed him and 
news about Wes Parmalee's broke away. John found Harlan 
claims that he really is Jock lying semi-conscious. Coming: 
Ewing. April Stevens schemed Frank realizes Lizzie holds the 
with Cliff against Jack Ewing. secret to Harlan's control over 
Bobby and Pam were forced to her. 
face a difficult decision because SANTA BARBARA: Tori told 
of Ray's revelation. Coming: The Eden she and Cruz made love in 
control of Ewing Oil could be' un­the lighthouse out of repressed 
dermined. passion for each other. Gina tried 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES: In the to seduce Keith who threw her 
struggle for the bonds, Orpheus out of his room. Later, she tried 
knocked Roman out. Alex kept to get into bed with C. C. who also 
Kimberley from seeing Teddy. threw her out of his room. Com­
Unaware that Shane had gone ing: Cruz fears he may have lost 
into cardiac arrest after being Eden forever. 
shot by Orpheus, Kim vowed to SEARCH FOR TOMORROW: 
try to reconcile with him when Hobbs refuted Jo's accusations 
he returned. Coming: Kayla feels against Judge Henderson, which 
Patch is keeping something from solidified Jo's suspicions about 
her. Hobbs. Patty and Hogan found a 
FALCON CREST: Wainwright special moment during a dark 
forced his way into the Agretti storm, just as the gypsy, Zophi, 
house and attacked Chase. predicted. Quinn bet Owen at 
Lance tried to stop Angela's arm wrestling. Kat was shocked 
preoccupation with Dan Fixx. An­to hear Quinn was a McCleary. 
gela told Peter she had to care Coming: Hobbs has suspicions 
for Dan even though she knew of her own. 
he was an ex-convict. Richard THE YOUNG & THE RESTLESS: 
sprang his trap on Miss Jones Victor began to reconsider his re­
almost too late to save Chase's lationship with Ashley after she 
life. Coming: Peter worries that had the abortion. Jill shocked 
Angela will never know the truth Ashley by calling a board 
about the stolen checks. meeting without John's knowl­
GENERAL HOSPITAL: Ramsey edge. Ashley was touched by 
believed Duke was dead. Duke, Matt's tenderness. Coming: Jack 
meanwhile, hid in the and Ellen reach an important un­
catacombs. Bobbie and Jake derstanding. 
decided to wed after choosing 
Gretchen as the surrogate mot-1986, McNaught Syndicate 
Joseph County; Catholic Social dents' campaign is more signif­
Services; Goodwill Industries of icant than just the amount of 
Mlchiana, Inc; Diabetes Associa­money, because it becomes a 
tion of St. Joseph County; Family point of inspiration to those in 
and Children's Center; Salvation the society who need to justify 
Army, South Bend and Mis­their help when they see guests 
hawaka, St. Joseph County Soci­of the community (students) 
ety for Crippled Children and raising funds to help local 
Adults; and the Y.M.C.A. of people." 
Metropolitan South Bend May said that 95 cents ofevery 
Mishawaka. dollar goes to the people who 
According to South Bend need it. Oftentimes these are 
United Way Director Pat Mangan, people who just barely miss the 
the goal for fundraising in St. cut-off for government aid. Only 
Joseph's County is $3, 165,000. 5 percent goes to administrative 
Mangan says, "Notre Dame stu-costs. 
Let's talk about stress. You know, teeth-grinding, fist­clenching knee-shaking, head­pounding, gut-constricting, 1­have-four-tests-and-a-paper-this week-and-1-wanna-strangle somebody stress. It usually starts in the classroom. Profes­sor such-and-such will say some­thing like, "I'm sure you've all checked the syllabus, and you've noticed that you have an eight­page paper due on Monday. The topic is 'The Plight of the Nco­Romantics During the Early In­dustrial Revolution But Preced­ing the Boer War and... etc. etc' ... Okay?" 
me alone so can sllleeeeeeeeeeeep! (gasp, gasp sob, choke. . . )" 
I know it's not the prof's fault. He or she went through a lot worse to get where they are, but somehow that's small comfort at three o'clock in the morning. I've spent too much time on ex­tended caffeine highs lately, too much time going out for "walks" in 20 degree weather to wake me up, too much time in hell. .. I mean the library. Yeah, I'll admit it. I let the pressure get to me sometimes. I've been seen staring into space and conjugat­ing French verbs. I've been 

KrisMurphy 
Altered 

"Sure," you say, "I can handle a little more work. Sleep is for pansies anyway." 
Three classes later you have accumulated two more papers in the next week, a 40 point quiz, and three tests. Another Profes­sor such-and-such begins to smile and say things like, "Of course your last paper before the test will be very important . . . blah, blah, blah, best years of your lives, blah, blah, surprise quiz today, blah, blah...next week's test. . . blah, blah, more etc.'s ...Okay?" 
"Sure!" you answer, "No prob­lem daddy-a. I like typing till my fingers are numb and my brain is whipped cream. I like to write and read and write and read and learn and scream and learn! I like it when my contacts dry up and fall out of my eyes and my head pounds and my mind is ready to snap. I like falling asleep in every class and yawning in my friend's faces! Gimme some more, load it on! I'll just move to the ----·­library! 
"''ll get all A's, you'll see, then you'll believe me. No, don't touch mel I'm fine! I have to go to the library now and drink s_ome more of that godawful Cherry Coke! 
*$%$•!!!!!  Kepler  had  AIDS!  
Shakespeare  was  a  plagiarist,  
and  I  lied  when  I  said  that  

Socrates was my favorite Greek person! Hahahaa... no I'm not under any stress. . . just leave spotted in Lafortune at three in the morning, and I've been known to eat pages out of Plato's Republic in order to absorb it faster. 
But it's okay now because I'm learning to deal with the pres­
sure. I'm saying things like "Test? What test? We don't have any tests in that class ... pass me another Lite Beer from Miller and no I'm not drinking too much and it wouldn't be any of your business if I was, okay?" I'm learning about possible places to sleep, like the lunch table. They told me to budget my time; well I'm overdrawn, boys and girls. 
I have, however, managed to come up with a few semirealistic tips to counter stress: 
I. First of all, don't relax and breathe slowly for ten minutes. You're likely to fall asleep and then you won't get anything done. A better way to qo is to not breathe at all. After holding your breath for ten minutes you'll turn blue and faint. Saying, "Sor­ry, I was unconscious so I couldn't do my paper" has proven to be an airtight excuse time and time again. 
2. 
Do-crazy things. Hold your roommates hostage. Dress up like the Pope. Eat in the dining hall. Consider celibacy. After a couple weeks ofstunts like these you'll be carted off to the psych department for testing and ob­servation. Remember "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"? Being declared legally insane might seem rash, but you'll end up that way by the end of exam week anyway, so why not get it over with? 

3. 
Drink heavily and in the company of friends who say things like "You can study tomor­row. You're coming to Bridgett's NOW!" 

4. 
Graduate. (see "Do Crazy Things" above) 

5. 
Keep repeating cliches like, "I can't do any better than my best" and "Human beings need to sleep and dream to survive." They are, of course, baldfaced lies, but they really work. 


Finally, always remember that grades are certainly not the end of the world. My grade point average does a great deal to sup­port this, because it stinks and the world is still standing. Stress is something we all have to live with. So pass me another Jolt and give me a 4:30a.m. wake-up call. 

United Way campaign going strong 
ANN-MARIE WALKER drive is going on until Thanks­features writer giving and includes several campus wide events. 
The students of Notre Dame All of the proceeds from the have joined forces with the clmpus showing of United Way to raise money to "Casablanca" and from the Inter­benefit people in St. Joseph's hall championship football game County. This major fundraising are going to United Way. In ad-dition to these events there will also be a Lock-Up this Tuesday and Wednesday, an Aerobathon sponsored by the Hall Presidents' Council this Saturday, a 5K run and possibly a Senior Bar Night. However, according to program Vice-Chairman Mike May, most of the money is expected to come from the door-to-door collec­tions being taken by dorm sec­tion leaders. 

The goal for this year's fundraiser was set for $10,000. Last year Notre Dame raised $7,000 for the United Way, but Father Theodore Hesburgh feels that the newgoal is realistic since it means a donation of two dol­lars per student which is "only the cost of two beers at Senior Bar." 
May stressed that United Way is a very effective agency since it contributes to so many charities: American Red Cross of St. Joseph County; Big Brot­herSIBig Sisters of St. Joseph's County; Cancer Society of St. 

________··-~ Business :
Monday, November 17, 1986-page 7 I 
I 
I 
I 
New Touche Ross chairman brings Notre Dame background to office 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 
The three-hour drive from Detroit to Notre Dame is a familiar one to Daniel J. Kelly. He has made the trip perhaps a hundred times. But to Kelly, who recently was elected chair­man of the board of the ac­counting firm of Touche Ross & Co., the step back to Notre Dame is a small but important one because of the strides he has made since his graduation from the school in 1957. 
Kelly, who graduated magna cum laude as an accounting major in what was then called the College of Commerce, left Notre Dame to become a junior member of the accounting and auditing department of George Bailey & Co., an ancestor of what is now Touche Ross. 
Last week, Kelly returned to Notre Dame to recruit business students for Touche Ross and to take in a football game. "I love this place," says Kelly. "It's like coming home." 
Kelly, a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit, particularly loves Notre Dame accounting students. 
"We try very hard to recruit here," he says. "I'd like to get all of them." Kelly says all the Big Eight accounting firms find Notre Dame students at­tractive because "the students here are some of the most in­telligent in the country and a lot of the students come from business-oriented families." 
Kelly says Notre Dame ac­counting students have always done well at his firm and he primarily recruits those stu­dents. But he adds that his firm is also looking at MBA and Law students with business back­grounds. "We have on one oc­casion hired an English major," says Kelly. "But they have to be interested in being a CPA." 
It is a curious act of fate that in the 29 years since his gradua­tion from Notre Dame, Kelly has simply moved from one side of the hiring table to the other. But that simple move en­tails a path of many steps and much success. 
When Kelly began as a junior accountant, George Bailey & Co. had only a few offices with its main office in Detroit. It was only nine years old and was years behind other firms in the competitive business of wooing clients. 
In 1966 Kelly was made a partner and two years later was put in charge of the ac­counting and auditing depart­ment of the Detroit office. During Kelly's rise in the com­pany, the accounting firm itself was emerging in the business world. In 1960 after two mergers with firms in Canada and England, the firm became Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart; and in 1969 the final modified version, Touche Ross, was adopted. 
At age 37, Kelly became re­sponsible for the entire man­agement of the operations of the Detroit office and is pres­ently responsible for the direct 
management of the Detroit, Ann Arbor, Lansing and Toledo offices. Last month Kelly was chosen to chair the board of directors of the national oper­ation of Touche Ross, now based in Manhattan. 
Although his increased role at the firm leaves less time to return to his alma mater, Kelly says his career has been "en­joyable and satisfying from a professional standpoint." 
With reason, he speaks en­thusiastically of his job and company. Of his company's eighth rank in a list of largest 
U.S. accounting firms, he says, "On a dollar-volume basis, we feel like we're seventh and not too far from sixth," says Kelly. "But size doesn't really mat­ter. What matters is quality of service and people." 
As evidence of this quality, Kelly says Touche Ross is the fastest growing accounting firm of the Big Eight. Its rev­enues increased 98 percent from 1980 to 1986 and in the past two years the firm has gained more than 50 major clients with base audit fees greater than $100,000. At 92.4 percent, the client retention rate of Touche Ross ties for first within the Big Eight. 
Boeing, Sears, Chrysler, American Motors, Macy's, Pil­lsbury and Prudential Insur­ance are a small sampling of the company's major clients. 
Touche Ross serves its foreign clients through Touche 
Ross International, an organi­zation of 54 member firms in ninety countries. Kelly is also a member of the board of governors for this international arm of Touche Ross. 
Kelly, whose community ser­vice responsibilities comprise a list as large as that of respon­sibilities to his firm, has remained close to Notre Dame. He has sent three daughters to Saint Mary's College and la­ments that work schedule will allow him only three home foot­ball games this year. 
In high school, Kelly knew "it would be a great thing to go to Notre Dame. You always wanted to come to Notre Dame." For Kelly, who has risen to prominence in a growing Big Eight accounting firm, not a whole lot has changed. 


r--IS AN MBA IN YOUR-------­
FUTURE? 
The Kogod College of Business Administration at The American University offers you an excellent opportunity for graduate business education in our nation's capital. Qualified candidates may begin their studies in fall, spring or summer sessions. Programs may be completed on a full-time or part-time basis with courses offered in both day and evening formats. 
In addition to the MBA, the College offers the Master of Science degree in Taxation as well as in other specialized professional fields. For further information, call (202) 885-1908 or mail the following form to: 
Koaod Colleae of 
------------------------------~ 

Business I am interested in the following graduate business fields: Admlnlstr.atlon 
Office of Student 
D Accounting D Personnel and Industrial Relations Aff•lrs D Finance D Procurement Management The Amerlc•n D International Business D Public Relations Management (MS only) University D Marketing D Real Estate and Urban DevelopmentWuhlnaton, DC 
D Operations Analysis D Taxation (MS only) 

10016
AMIEAN ~~~r:ss -----------------­
UNIVERSITY State -------------Zip____ WA''"""-n"'"' Telephone(__) --------------­---~~~>?Arfr:~a~i~;~;t'i~!~YI~s~~ution L-----__________________________. --....1 
Overseas McD's 
find problems 
McDonald's is emphasizing its expansion overseas. Busi­ness Week notes, however, that the restaurant chain has been having problems moving its famous mark of consis­tent quality across oceans. 

Alex VonderHaar 
Business Bits 

Last year, nearly 40 percent of new McDonald's outlets 
opened outside the U.S., giving foreigners 220 more places 
to taste America's most popular food. From Tokyo to 
Thailand, Switzerland to Singapore, Big Mac attacks now 
occur at over 2000 eating houses abroad. 
Ray Kro~ built his empire around a management style 
that marned the advantages of size and the spirit of 
entreprenurialism. This feature has been McDonald's big­
gest challenge in foreign markets. 
McDonald's must find new franchisees who share its 
obsession with standardized procedures. At the same time, 
the company has to continue to make itself seem small to 
promote individualism, a task made increasingly difficult 
by international expansion. 
So the chain has loosened its reigns to encourage testing 
of local market tastes. 

For example, some outlets in Brazil sell a soft drink containing guarana, an Amazonian berry. Diners in Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand enjoy milk shakes flavored with durian, regionally considered to be an aphrodisiac. 
Quality control has reached its greatest lengths with the golden French fries. Employees have helped Thai farmers cultivate Idaho potatoes. 
Political problems, in contrast, have not been so easy to adjust to. In volatile areas, McDonald's is a target be­cause it is viewed as an exporter of American lifestyle. 
With Filet-0-Fishes and Quarter Pounders frying in 7000 stores already in this country, McDonald's key to future growth is foreign expansion. To be successful could be even tougher than maturing from one shop in the 1950's to a model multinational in the 1980's. 
• A poor advertising environment is the explanation The Wall Street Journal gives for the latest market failure of Time Inc. The magazine publisher has decided not to release Picture Week after more than a year of market testing. 
In its most extensive effort to decide on launching a new publication, Time spent $15 million experimenting with editorial and design changes as well as giving advertisers free space. These trials, however, represented only thir­teen cities beginning in September 1985. 
Company spokesmen said it would cost over $100 million to successfully market the magazine nationwide, and they added "it would be unwise to invest more than $100 million in the launch of a major weekly in the face of the continuing softness in national advertising and an uncertain economic environment." 
Picture Week was expected to perform well as a fast­paced photo newsweekly with a minimum of text. But during the market test, its stories mimicked those of People, and Time did not need two of its magazines com­peting for the same customers. 
Bruce A. Barnet, in charge of publishing, was disap­pointed: "We know we're putting out a good magazine, but the timing is poor." 
The failure of Picture Week exemplifies the change in the advertising market recently. Media ranging from newspapers to national television networks are predicting flat revenues for years to come. 
• In case you thought that silver and gold were the only precious metals, think about the recent trading in platinum, a material used in jewelry and strategic weap­ons. Growing concern about South Africa, the supplier of 85 percent of the free world's annual production of 2.7 million ounces, has prompted a big price jump. 
The current price of near $600 an ounce is double that of last year. This, in turn, has sparked a great search for· the metal. "At no time has there been this much attention to platinum exploration in Canada," according to John McGoran, president of a Vancouver mining company. 
At least a dozen companies are looking coast to coast in Canada, a nation currently with only one mine (in On­tario). One optimistic expert told The Wall Street Journal that "when everyone starts looking for a metal, the tradi­tion is that it is found in large abundance." This could bring the price back down again, eventually resulting in bankrupt mining concerns. 
Interestingly, South Africa is also the world's largest supplier of gold, but its price has not risen as sharply as that of platinum. 
\ 
-~ 
.­

The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
The O.C. Hoobers forced a final game in the Interhall soccer playoffs by beating Flanner, 2-0, yesterday. The championship game will be held today at 4 p.m. at Stepan North. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team still has one opening left in the Christmas ski trip to Jackson Hole, Wyoming. Anyone in­terested should call Joe (1190) or Jeff (3660). -The Observer 
The ND fencing team is looking for a freshman inter­ested in electronics and willing to repair fencing equipt­ment. Contact Prof. DeCicco at Room 309 of the Admin­istration Building. -The Observer 
The Annual SMC Turkey Trot will be held Thursday, Nov. 20 at 3:30p.m. There will be individual runs of one and one-half, three, and five miles and new ND-SMC coed runs of three and five miles. Deadline is noon tomorrow, and entry forms may be picked up at Angela. There is a $1 entry fee. Call 284-5549 for more information. -The Ob­server 
The NVA Turkey Shoot still has openings for tomorrow and Wednesday night. Call NVA at 239-6100 for more in­formation. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 12 
playing from the 18 than the nine." 
Despite the two mishaps, however, Notre Dame got the play it wanted when Beuerlein fired a pass toward tight end Joel Williams, who was open and streaking into the end zone. But in a scene that will linger for a long time in the memories of Irish fans, the ball glanced off Williams' hands as Penn State cornerback Gary Wilker­son made the hit from behind. 
"I thought I was going to get it," said Williams, "but (Wilkerson) timed it pretty well and he broke it up before I could get a firm grip on it." 
Then, in a bizarre conclusion, Beuerlein sat back in the pocket for an eternity on fourth down waiting for someone to get open. Nobody did, however, leaving the senior signal-caller to helplessly toss the ball to tailback Mark Green in the right flat, ten yards from paydirt. 
"I know now I should have thrown the ball in,'' said Beuer­lein. "I really just could not find anybody open in the end zone." 
That Beuerlein was so frustrated on the last posses­sion was ironic considering the relative ease he had shown ear-

Classifieds 
~-----~~-------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, November 17, 1986-page 8 
Notre Dame basketball 'rehearses,' crushes Yugoslavians by 21 points 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's 89-68 victory over Sibenik of Yugoslavia was more of a dress rehearsal than a basketball game. 
And as such, it showed that the Irish don't quite have all their lines memorized, but it did give the supporting cast a chance to get used to the stage lights. 
Donald Royal portrayed his role as one of the leading actors by scoring 19 points and pulling down 11 rebounds, as four-of­five starters scored in double figures. Gary Voce, moving from a supporting role to a leading man this season, had 11 points and 12 rebounds, but picked up his third and fourth fouls early in the second half, something that will be critical starting opening night. 
The Irish jumped off to a 16-0 lead with just five-and-a-half minutes gone in the opening half and never looked back. Royal had five points in the early explosion with both field goals coming on offensive rebounds. Then, with 10:33left in the half and Notre Dame up, 
lier in the game in passing through the Nittany Lion defense. 
Down 10-6 at the half, Beuer­lein directed his team to its only lead of the day when he connected with wide out Milt Jackson on a 50-yard bomb that set up a 14-yard Brown touch­down reception. The drive, which went 92 yards in six plays, put the Irish on top, 13­10. 
That drive was followed in the fourth quarter by a 10-play, 64-yard march that put the Irish back in the game after Penn State's John Shaffer had increased his team's margin to 24-13 with a one-yard plunge. Here, Beuerlein strikes to 

,I NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
························ 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL 
MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
typing 277 ·9649 
MICROCOMPUTER FAIR MICROCOMPUTER FAIR MICROCOMPUTER FAIR Thursday, Nov. 20, 1986 9amto4pm Computing Center Lobby 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: N.D. STARTER JACKET (THE KIND WITH NOTRE DAME PRINTED ACROSS THE FRONT) WAS TAKEN FROM THEODORE'S ON THE NIGHT OF NOV. 7. IT WAS ORIGINALLY PLACED NEAR THE ENTRANCE. IF YOU PICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL MARK AT 1712. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED. 
• Lost at Senior Bar after SMU game: One navy blue mens jacket. If found please call 288-2749. Thanks. 
·• 
LOST: LONG WOOL BLACK DRESS COAT BY "PORTRAir. MISTAKENLY TAKEN F ROM DILLON'S FORMAL LAST FRIDAY. REWARD IF FOUND­PLEASE CALL LISA 284-4329 
LOST My green duffel bag was accidentally picked up in South Dining Hall at Sunday brunch. I desperately need the notes in that bag. Please call Mike at 2387 LOST about two weeks ago, my L.L. Bean, blue and black plaid jacket. Call Margaret, X4087. 
LOST an envelope of pictures in the North Dining Hall about a week ago. They have great sentimental value. Call Mar­garet, X4087. 
MISSING : Royal Blue Women's COAT. Last seen Chi Chi's, Tues. 11111 11:00pm. PLEASE GIVE ME BACK MY COAT II I don't have the heart to tell Mom that the present she bought for me is "missing" and I'm freezing ! Please return coat(&multi-colored scarf and gloves...) to Lafortune Lost& found or call 277-6033 for reward. NO QUESTIONS ASKED. 
··································· 
LOST: GOLD SEIKO LADIES WATCH WED. MORNING, NOV.12 BETWEEN B2 AND HAGGAR. PLEASE, IF FOUND, CONTACT KERRY HAVERKAMP 277­8159!!11 WOULD REALLY APPRECIATE IT. 
LOST: Light grey heavy wool winter coat. Lost at Theodore's on last Sat. night be· tween 2-3 AM··It's getting cold and I really need it back. If you picked it up accidentally, call Gary at ~1153 
LOST: BLUE,SHOE-SHAPED PENCIL CASE AT HAYES HEALY WITH "I GOT A KICK OUT OF LAS VEGAS" ON IT. LIFE IS NOT THE SAME WITHOUT IT! RING VALERIE AT 283-1366 
LOST:ADD-A-BEAD NECKLACE. SOMEWHERE BETWEEN WALSH AND SO. DINING HALL OR "IN DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL MAUREEN M. AT 2612. THANKS. 
If you picked up a Bio. book in F line at north dining hall Thur. and it's not yours, it's MINE!! Please return it to 1110 Flan­ner or call Frank xl581. I can't afford an· other book and I need to study for the test Tuesday. Thanx. 
LOST!! MY KEYS. Five keys on a brass ND keychain. One of the keys is blue. Please call Stephanie at 277-8241. Thanks! 
HEAR YE, HEAR YE. If you lost an H.P. calculator before break, call1412to iden­tify a.s.a.p. 
FOR RENT 
Available for fV1187. Large 4 bdrm. home. Will accommodate 8. Completely fur­nished with washer and dryer. Call 234­9364. 
WANTED 
WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY 
PERSONNEL  $5.00  AN  HOUR  
GUARANTEED  YOUR  FIRST  TWO  
WEEKSI  FLEXIBLE  NIGHT-TIME  

HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE­TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277-2151 
In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn State GA or Studenllicket!!! Call Theresa X404111! Will pay big! 
.............................................. Waitresses, Waiters needed at Knol­lwood Country Club No experience nec­essary. Knollwood Country Club, 16633 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277-1541. 
·········································· .......... . 
MIAMI'S WHERE I'D RATHER BE! Miami, Ohio, that is. Yeaaaah. That's thn ticket! And you can be my ticket to getting there on Fri., Nov. 21. If you need a rider to Miami, call 3674 and ask for the liar, uh, the Pope! Yeaaah, that's it . 
Ride andl:lr riders NEEDED Roch N.Y. Leave adler 12 p.m. Mon. 24 Call Dave £1683 

23-5, Irish head coach Digger Phelps sent in the supporting cast, featuring four freshmen, for his starters. The subs put in a little more than six minutes and when they were replaced, the score stood at 31-12. 
"I thought we jumped out pretty well," said Phelps. "We needed to go against somebody besides ourselves. I was con­cerned about early rebounding in the game. But I thought we did a good job of pressuring the ball, and we boxed out very well early. We did a lot of good rebounding earlier in the game, and we just dominated from the start. 
"I just wanted to play the freshmen to give them a taste and see what they could do. I thought (Scott) Paddock did some good things and I thought Jamere (Jackson) did some good things." 
The second half offered more of the same. Phelps subsituted freely throughout the half, both situationally and en masse. Paddock saw time with the first squad, mainly because of Voce's foul trouble. 
Along with the Voce fouls, the Irish, who crashed the boards 
flanker Ray Dumas and Jack­son moved the Irish into posi­tion where, once again, Brown took the ball in for the score to make it 24-19. 
A two-point conversion at­tempt by the Irish failed when Penn State linebacker Pete Gif­topolous ( 11 tackles) picked off Brown's option pass to Beuer­lein. 
Penn State, meanwhile, was able to have a successful day offensively despite a sub-par game by star running back D.J. Dozier, who picked up only 77 yards on 17 carries. Dozier bunched up 26 of those yards on a drive in the first quarter that put the Lions up 7-0 after consistently, also ran into rebounding problems in the second half. Phelps indicated that someting in the 86-87 Irish script has to be fine tuned. 
"We have to rebound with consistency," said Phelps. "If we can't rebound, then we've just got to press people, and we didn't do that tonight. I just wanted to see how well we could play man-to-man ­forced the kids to play man to man -and we didn't want to press tonight because I wanted to see what we could do with post defense. 
"I thought Voce got a Iitle sloppy in the second half. That's going to be a concern for us -how well we can play good post defense and how well we rebound in key situations. If we learn to adjust those two things, then we'll be able to compete." 
But Friday night's game was more than a basketball exhibi­tion, it was an exhibition of friendship between two countries. Phelps spoke highly of the Sibenik club and the Yugoslavian love of basketball, saying, "it's made their nation more unified." 
fullback Steve Smith went in from the one-yard line. 
Then, Shaffer was able to use the big play to generate some offense in the third period, linking up with split end Ray Roundtree on a 37-yard touch­down bomb that put Penn State back on top at 17-13. 
All of this still may not have been enough for the Lions if it were not for some critical first­half mistakes that enabled them to keep the Irish off the board. Three fumbles by Beuerlein, one deep in Irish ter­ritory just before the half that was converted into a Massimo Manca field goal, particularly hurt Notre Dame. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Fnday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classilieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
RIDE NEEDED to DALLAS-FORT WORTH for Thanksgiving. Willing to share dnving and expenses. Can leave anyt1me after 11122. Call John at 3413. 
Earn $480 weekly, $60 per hundred en­velopes stuffed. Guaranteed. Homeworkers needed for company proj­ect stuffing envelopes and assembling materials. Send stamped sell-addressed envelope to JBK Mailcompany, P.O. Box 25-66, Castaic, CA 91310. 
GOVERNES&HOUSEKEEPER After school management and transport of 2 children, 12 & 15, weekly housecleaning and occasional errands. Car essential. M-Th 2-5, Fri. 12-5. Can continue into full time summer job. Ref­erences req'd. $3.5Qihr. or more depend­ing on experience. Call even1ngs or weekends 288-2449. 
....................... NEED A RIDE TO PURDUE NOV21 CALL PAM OR KRIS 284-5482 
HELP, I NEED A RIDE TO DAYTON THE WEEKEND OF NOVEMBER 21-23. PLEASE CALL TERESA AT 284-5449. Will PAY BIG$$$! 
HELP!! NEED A RIDE TO YOUNGSTOWN,OH (OR VICINITY)FOR THANKSGIVING BREAK WILL SHARE EXPENSES.IF YOU CAN HELP ME,PlEASE CAlL CHRIS-284-5516 
TICKETS 
FAMILY BACK HOME WANTS TO SEE ND BEAT LSU. I NEED TIX. CALL MIKE· 2371 

I NEED 4 LSU TIX CALL JIM AT 277­4569 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. u.s. 31 N 'ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
I NEED A RIDE TO MICH. FOR BREAK. 
CALL COLLEEN-284-4149 
.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS lor $$$. Present this ad and receive an additional 10% OFF of any used book in store! LARGE selection of CliftMonarch Notes. PANDORA'S BOOKS, 808 Howard St., just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 Days a week, 10-530 
JOLTI!I 
JOLT!II 
JOLT A REVOLT!II 
GET READY NO, JOLT IS COMING... 
TO A FOOOSALES NEAR YOU. 
.............................................. COME MEAT THE PARTY PROFES­SIONALS BACCHUS MEETING 7 PM MON. NOV 17 GRACE HALL PIT 
WHAT IS BACCHUS? WHAT IS BAC­CHUS? WHAT IS BACCHUS? 
Happy B-Day, LISA RAMINGER All you Darling Demers Wish her a Happy 1Bth at 284·4209 Luv Ya babe, Marilyn 
Just in from The Land of 10,000 Lakes: 
MINNESOTA CLUB T-SHIRTS 
only $7.50 
To order, call Tom "Dodger" Tracey, 
£1783 My green duffel bag was accidentally picked up in South Dining Hall at Sunday brunch. I desperately need 1he notes 1n that bag. Please call Mike al 2387 
THE MADMAN IS 21! HIDE YOUR KIDS! HAPPY BIRTHDAY JIM PERNAS!! 
Please attend Fr. Richard McCormick's talk ·discussion on "The Curran and Hun· thausen Affaires: The Learning Process of the Church-on Wednesday, Novem­ber 17 at 7:00 p.m. in room 341 O'Shaughnessy. 
Buying & selling men's and women's quality clothing. Consignment Showcase, 2214 Mishawaka Ave., 237-4877. 
SUSAN B. ANTHONY WILL NEVER BE THE SAME. WORLD RENOWNED (OR AT LEAST SMC) FERRET HATER WILL GIVE A SPINE-CHILLING PERFOR­MANCE THIS WEEK IN "CHAMBER MUSIC". THE BRIGITIA FAN CLUB P.S. HOW DO YOU LIKE YOUR FIRST PER­SONAL? 
For Sports Work above and beyond the calf of duty. Great thanks to Pete and Melissa! 
T-BEAR KOCH 
I never. 
SUZIE BARE! SUZIEBARE! SUZIEBARE! 
A week late but better than a kick in the pants ... maybee. 




Where the need is . . . there we will be. 

As individuals and
DOGBOOK PHOTOS 

as a community, we
ALL JUNIORS: 

will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 
HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
IF YOU MISSED YOUR DORM'S SCHEDULED TIME 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C.
FOR DOGBOOK PICTURES, SHOW UP TODAY IN 3rd 
Director of Vocations
FLOOR LAFORTUNE BETWEEN 4-9 PM. BE AS 
Box 460
SERIOUS OR CRAZY AS YOU WANT!! 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The Observer 
,'>il!i "' 

The Observer /Brian Mast Stanford quarterback AI Martin (10) avoids a Chris Dallavo has the details on the Studs' tri­defender in his dorm's 19-0 romp over Flanner umph, beginning on the back page. 
in the Interhall football championship Sunday. 
Close 
continuedfrom page 12 
lein afterwards. "I threw it right where I wanted it. I know Joel had it where he wanted it. But he got hit and the ball was jarred loose. I was thinking six all the way when I threw it. I 
L. s. u 
1-4 people 
FOOTBALL pett. 11.0 om GAME $27.00 
10245 phone: 
(elo~e 
11 /2 2 LSU v~ NOTRE 
Come help me make my career a success 
272-0312/ 272-8471 54533 Terrace Lane 
(across &omMartin's) 
Al~llne Hwy. 
(504) 293-9680 

to ~tadlum) 6~ee eontlnental VAME b~eak6a~t 
know Joel took a darned good shot. That play saved the game for them." 
All  season,  the  Irish  have  
been  outgaining  their  oppo­ 
nents  but coming out  on  the  

short end of the score. More than anything, the Irish have been victimized by themselves. 
e\).) fro01 the ~•
11 
~ H"f1. l.9ht8 
I'm Mary Beth. 
I have joined the 
styling team at 
The Knights 
men's haircutting 
and hair care. 
In five losses, Notre Dame has commited 15 turnovers. Throw out the Alabama game, and you have four losses by a total of 12 points, but as many turn­overs. 
"I refuse to classify these athletes as losers," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "We have had some bad breaks. Other teams have made good plays against us, and some­times we don't do the little things that we need to. This football team came from a long way down, though, and it's a big hump to get over. Once they do, they'll be fine. 
"I really don't know what else to say. It's frustrating. I guess I could cry and show you that way, but I can't tell vou what's in my heart. I couldn't possibly ever be more proud of a football team." 
lAMERICAN 
WCANCER 
'SOCIE1Y'~ 


Monday, November 17, 1986-page 9 
SMC swimming opens year, downs N.orth Central, 72-22­
:7 
By JANE SHEA 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's swim team traveled to Chicago on Friday, where it beat North Central by a score of 72-22. 
This was the Belles first meet of the season and, according to Coach Nancy Jo Kuzmitz, it was a good meet because it ex­emplified the team's potential for the season. 
"I am fairly impressed with our times, however, there are areas of needed improve­ment," said Kuzmitz. 
Saint Mary's took first place in all the events except two, where it took second. 
The Belles were successful in the 200-yard free relay, with senior captains Mary Fisher and Patty Juckniess, along with freshmen Julie Courtney and Erin Tierney. Their time was 1:49.83. 
Studs 
continued/rom page 12 

Tomko and Brent Basham, 
with  Martin  hitting  Landry  
from  four  yards  out  for  the  
score.  

"The blocked punt was prob­ably the key play of the game," Gilboy added. "It gave us a 9-0 lead at halftime, which was vir­tually a gift." 
Flanner head coach Jim Fitzgerald agreed, saying that it gave the momentum to Stan­ford. 
"The drive at the end of the half hurt us," Fitzgerald com­mented. "We would have been happy going into halftime scoreless, but it just wasn't meant to be." 
That quick outburst was all Stanford needed, as its defense, affectionately known as the "Dirtbag D," controlled the rest of the game. 
"Our linemen put tremen­dous pressure on the Flanner 
Saint Mary's also swam well in the 200-yard medley with a time of 2:05.80. The team was made up of Juckniess, Tierney, senior Margaret Mannion and sophomore Tanya Reeves. 
Both relay teams made the cut-offs for the nationals. 
Other first-place finishers for the Belles were sophomore Peggy Halloran, who swam in the 500-yard free with a time of 6:00.34, Tierney, who swam in both the 50-and 100-yard free with a time of 0:26.36 and 0:59.72, respectively, and Courtney, who swam in the 200­yard free with a time of 2: 15.82. 
Juckniess in the 100-yard back, Mannion in the 100-yard breast and Reeves in the 200­yard IM were also winners. 
The two second places were captured by Halloran in the 1,000-yard free with a time of 12:29.26, and Reeves in the 100­yard fly with a time of 1:08.0. 
quarterback, especially in the second half," Gilboy contin­ued. "They really made it tough to throw, which allowed our linebackers and defensive backs to cover their receivers well." 
The Stanford offense really began to role on its first pos­session of the second half, as the Martin-to-Landry combina­tion clicked several times, and running backs Bill Marvel and Jack Gleeson chipped in to drive the ball to the Flanner four-yard line. The drive stalled there, and Stanford settled for a 21-yard field goal from Sanchez, making the score 12-0. 
The "Dirtbag D" then took control. Flanner tried to get its offense untracked by going on fourth-and-four from its own 40, but Stanford rose to the oc­casion. The Stanford defense rose to the occasion all game long, giving up only one first down. 
"Our defense played really well all year long,'' said Gilboy. "We gave up only six points in seven games. When you can do that, you are going to win a lot of ballgames." 
The "Dirtbag D" set up the game's final score, as Tony Vil­lanueva recovered a fumble at the Flanner 32. 
After Gleeson moved the ball up to the 19, Tomko ran a nifty reverse 16 yards for the touch­down. · 



The Observer Monday, November 17, 1986-page 10 
ND volleyball takes NSC tournament, extends streak to 15 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
Apparently somebody forgot to teach the Notre Dame vol­leyball team about fatigue. Be­cause of this "omission" the Irish continue to roll through their best season ever, with hopes to nab a bid to the NCAA tournament. 
This weekend the Irish traveled to Chicago and easily swept their four opponents to win the North Star Invitational. No more than six hours after winning the championship game on Saturday afternoon, the Irish were back on the court of the ACC to battle the Univer­sity of Rhode Island. Notre Dame rolled over Rhode Is­land, 15-0, 15-3, 13-15, 15-6, to take its fifth victory in 28 hours. 
With the victory, the Irish notched their 15th consecutive win and brought their season record to 31-6, both school records. 
The weekend, possibly the best in Notre Dame volleyball history, began Friday night as Notre Dame defeated Val­paraiso and Dayton. 
The Irish handled Valparaiso for the second time this season, sweeping it, 15-9, 15-2 and 15-2. Sophomores Mary Kay Waller and Zanette Bennett led the Notre Dame offensive attack with 11 and 10 kills, respective­ly, while Waller recorded three solo blocks and four block as­sists to pace the Irish defense. Freshman setter Taryn Collins continued to be a sparkplug, registering 32 assists, six digs and three kills. 
In the Dayton match, juniors Gretchen Kraus and Kathy Baker celebrated their birthdays with a bang as the Irish defeated the Flyers 15-5, 15-11 and 15-11. Baker recorded 13 kills in only two games while Kraus had 10 kills and four blocks. Sophomore Whitney Shewman turned in one of her best all-around performances of the season with nine kills, 10 digs and three service aces. 
On Saturday the Irish first faced Cleveland State and con­tinued their winning ways, 15-3, 15-3 and 15-2. Shewman paced 

Pats pull off miracle finish 
Associated Press 
Irving Fryar's 25-yard touch­down catch as time expired gave the New England Patriots a dramatic 30-28 victory Sun­day over Los Angeles and spoiled a rather incredible debut of Rams' rookie quarter­back Jim Everett. 
Fryar, who had caught a six­yard touchdown pass to pull the Patriots to within 28-23 with 
7:06 to play, came down with the winning score in a crowd of players in the Rams end zone. The play started with three seconds left. 
Patriots' receiver, Stanley Morgan, went high with a group of Ram defenders and tipped the ball, but Fryar hauled it in to give the Patriots the victory. 
"It's called a 'Miracle Right,' " a beaming Patriot Coach Raymond Berry said of the catch. 
"I was just trying to stay in the end zone," said Fryar, who'd lost two fumbles earlier in the game. "Stanley tipped it but I didn't see that. I just got there and it was in my hands." 
The victory gave the Patriots an 8-3 record and kept their first-place hopes alive in the AFC east. The Rams are 7-4 and a half game behind San Francisco in the NFC west. 

This holidayseaiDn, get the"Write Stuff' at the rightprice. 
Now you can get the competitive edge when classes begin in january. With a Macintosh"' personal computer, and all the write extras. 
We call it the Macintosh "Write Stuff" bundle. You'll call it a great deal' Because when you buy a Macintosh "Write Stuff" bundle before january 9. 1987, you'll receive a bundle of extras-and save $250. 
Not only will you get your choice of a Macintosh 512K Enhanced or a Macintosh Plus, you'll also get an Image Writer"' II printer, the perfect solution for producing near letter-quality term papers or reports, complete with graphs, charts, and illustrations. 
Plus, you'll ~et Maclightning, the premier spelling checker con­taining an 80,000 word dictionary 
with options for thesaurus, medical or legal dictionaries. Together with your favorite Macintosh word processing software, you can transform your notes into the clearest, most letter perfect papers you ever turned out. And turned in on time. 
What's more, there's a Macintosh Support Kit filled with valuable accessories and computer care products from 3M* Complete with all the things you need to keep your Macintosh running long after you've graduated. 
Let us show you how to get through college better, faster, and smarter. Stop in and see us for more information. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 Computer Center/Math Building 
"(f}n rAJOd l'&iJt SltffJUa Last. (l 19IJS A/11M CDmpuJn: Inc Af/Jk lind 1M Apph IDRO ~ll' rtf(IS/trtd trlkktMril' ifAppk Compwer. Inc -mod--=~<!A/flll_"'<_"''l••-if-."f,..,.,/nc 
Notre Dame with nine kills and three aces, while sophomore Maureen Shea led the defense with nine digs and three blocks. It was a true team effort as everyone, except injured 

Art Lambert 
senior Karen Sapp, saw playing time, and 10 players re­corded kills. 
The Irish wrapped up the tournament in convincing fas­hion, destroying DePaul, 15-1, 15-0 and 15-5. It was the fourth Notre Dame sweep of the weekend, and its 19th of the season. 

Bennett was named the tournament MVP and Irish Coach Art Lambert was honored as the North Star Con­ference Coach of the Year. Col­lins, who recorded 126 assists for the five tournament matches, was named to the all­tournament first team, and Waller, Shea and Baker were second-team selections. Baker recorded 20 kills while playing in only five games, her best performance of the season. 
The Irish returned to the ACC Saturday night to finish out the weekend against the Univer­sity of Rhode Island. Showing no signs of fatigue after a busy two days of volleyball, the Irish won their fifth match of the weekend, defeating the Rams 15-0, 15-3, 13-15, 15-6. 
Notre Dame came out on fire in game one, running the score to 12-0 behind kills by Waller and Bennett. After the teams traded side-outs, Collins set up Shea twice for kills and junior Kathleen Morin put the match away with a kill for the 15-0 Irish victory. 
Notre Dame was still hot in game two, as it took a quick 5-0 lead before Rhode Island got its first points of the night. Col­lins and Cunningham, the Irish freshmen, made several out­standing saves and digs as Notre Dame won handily, 15-3. 
"Those first two games were the best we've played, ever," said Lambert, who was obvi­ously a very happy and relaxed man after seeing his team easily defeat every opponent over the weekend. 
"We have not been able to sustain a great level of play like that. That was the first time we've done that for two games." 
Rhode Island battled back in the third game to win a tight battle, 15-13. Game four was another blow-out as the Irish roared back behind the kills of Bennett and Waller to win it, 15-6. 
"We rested everybody well today," said Lambert, explain­ing why his team did not falter against Rhode Island after the four North Star Invitational matches. 
~Goclfather·s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it. 
™ 
SUNDAY & MONDAY SPECIALS 
MEDIUM THIN CRUST PIZZA WITH ONE 
I TOPPING PLUS EXTRA CHEESE PLUS A I 
I TWO LITER BOTTLE OF COKE I 
$5.25 plus tai & delivery I
I 

I ---------•Goctfatba's I 
I ~Pizza. 1I
One _,.... per pm.. .. pon;cipotiatJ ............

I ~~~~--~-~ -~.~~ 
Offer expires 11 I 30/86 II s worth 11. I
I 

~--------------------~ 

We Deliver to a Limited Area 
52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN 
WORLD WRESRING ~FEDERATION® PRESENTS WEDNESDAY, NOV. 19th ~. PROMPTLY AT 7:30PM 
ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER "EX-PARTNERS COLLIDE!!" 
WWF HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION 
HULK HOGAN 
vs 
"NIR WONDERFUL" 
PAUL ORNDORFF *SPECIAL OPENING MAIN EVENT* TITO SANTANA 
vs 
LA "THE UGANDAN HEADHUNTER'' 
PLUS 18 MATCHES FEATURING ALL THE TOP WWF STARS AS: RANDY SAVAGE, KOKO B. WARE, HERCULES HERNADEZ, THE BRITISH BULLDOGS, NIKOLAI VOLKOFF, AND MORE!! LIVE "PIPER'S PIT" 
Tickets on sale at A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, SEARS (Mish. & Elkhart), ST. JOSEPH BANK (Main Office), NIGHTWINDS (Mish. & Niles), JR's (LaPorte), MUSIC MAJIC (Benton Harbor), JUST FOR THE RECORD (T&C Shopping Centre) 
-----------~----­
~---~------.......----------------------------­
~c:tcJlC3L~---------------------------------------M-o-nd-ay-,N-o-ve-mb-er_1_7,_19-86--p-ag•e-ll 
Bloom County 


Campus 
12:00 -1 : 15 p.m.: Economics Department Development Workshop, Bartholomew Armah, Notre Dame graduate student, Memorial Library Lounge 
6:30-8:00 p.m.: "Careers and Ministries: Exploring Job Opportunities in Health Careers," Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Program and Campus Ministry Meeting, Haggar Parlor 
7:00 
p.m.: Film, "The Most Dangerous Game," 1932, R-W, 63 minutes, Annenberg Auditorium 

7:00 
p.m.: Presentation1"eception for any Business senior interested in career op­portunities with First National Bank of Cincinnati, Alumni Room, Morris Inn 


7:30 p.m.: Self-defense clinic sponsored by Women's Concerns Committee of Stu­dent Government and the South Bend Police Dept., Walsh Hall Lounge 
8:00p.m.: Presentation1"eception for any senior interested in career opportunities with Morgan Stanley, Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Gary Larson 
Berke Breathed Far Side 

umwerul Prftl SynCI1ca1e 


. 
8:00 
p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series on Metaphysics, Professor Peter van Inwagen, Syracuse University, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 

8:00 
p.in.: Play, "Chamber Music," Saint Mary's Players, Saint Mary's Club House, free tickets available at SMC Box Office, 284-4626 


9:00 p.m.: Film, "Rancho Notorious," 1952, color, 89 minutes, Fritz Lang, An­nenberg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Salisbury Steak Turkey Divan Vegetable Quiche Tomato Cheese Bagel Melt 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlets Pork Chow Mein Fettucine with Mushrooms Deli Bar 


SObering
Advice .-. 
cansa~e'
alife /.,. 
·.+· 

"I hear 'em! ... Gee, there must be a hundred of the little guys squirmin' around In there!" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Dugout 5 Nail for a 
plummet 9 Move from side 
to side 13 Shortly 14 Land of Seoul 16 Confine 17 Make a salad 18 Russ. moun­
tain range 19 District 20 Very neat 23 Kind 24 Layer 25 Free of charge 28 Race track 
post in old 
Rome 30 Health resort 33 Peep show 34 Controlled 36-Domini 37 Overpowering 
terror 38 Matrix 39 Yeoman of 
the guard 41 Soup 


Saturday's Puzzle Solved: 
STABISENDIMAHAL
H 0 N E T R A Y A R U B A APES RAIN R"OLLS H I y 0 s I L v E R AIIIA
y

~U P.E SA U ~DEW'WIIirl DEAS 
A~S"''!T~R1-':A'-lo.~HliiTTS • T R 0 Y THE I N N EIR SANCTUM 
T E R M. 0-l!!l!J.T• 0-H
A R A 

N T--S 0 V 
0 C T A .~N<-+-=--A~""I""L..-S --'-t':'+':-li=S HAD OW KNOWS
li 
LOATHITEMAIAB IE 
B R I N E A L A R N A N A S T R A D R E N D E R G S 
42 Witness 43 Supplicate 44 Disguised 45 Red or Black 46 Aviator 47 Dessert 
favorite 56-Bartok 57 Fiat 58 Lat. abbr. 59 Let out a 
secret 60-Haute 61 Standard 62 Sea bird 63 Sow 64 Golf pegs 
DOWN 1 lt. wine center 2 Blessing 3Sub­
(secretly) 4 Notwith­standing 5 Sneaks 
6-over 
(study) 7 Don't give ­8 Pastrami 
place 9 Frightening 10 Large hos­

pital room 11 US author 12 Twelvemonth 15 Free from 
germs 21 Ballet movement 22 Pearl Buck 

heroine 25 Snatches 26 Indian queen 27 Water buffalo 28 Cash 29 Muslim title 30 Wading bird 31 Martinique 
volcano 32 Did sums 34 Computer input 35 Fun 
11/17/86 

37 Rampart 49 Blueprint 40 Fencing sword 50 Roman date 41 Large rodent 51 Shamrock land 44-milk 52 Field measure 45 Quench 53 Indian tribe 47 Skillful 54 Venture 48 Equal 55 Shade trees 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!SAB presents : !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
SAB presents: 

This Week's Events 
Friday: Campus Band Jam 
8pm -2am, Theodore's -FREE 
Saturday: Chicago Trip 11 am Main Circle (sign ups in SAB office $7) 
MOVIES; EO Aud; 7, 9, 11 pm 
Wedlfhu Willie Wonka & the Chocolate Factory $1 
Frl&it Rocky IV $1.50 
CHICAGO TRIP Saturday, November 22 
EAT: Hard Rock, Gino's East... DANCE: Limelight, Neo's... WATCH: LSU Game at privately rented club PLAY: Watertower, Second City Comedy ... 
Leave Main Circle 11 am, Leave Chicago 1 am 
Sign up in SAB office Only $7.001 Theatre: Those interested should contact Jenny Fisher or Laurie Shea at 239-7757 for tix in advance 
S~orts 
Monday, November 17, 1986-page 12 
Irish drop thriller to third-ranked Nittany Lions 
State holds off late charge, thwarts ND to stay unbeaten 
By MARTY BURNS repeatedly bounced back from Assistant Sports Editor Penn State scores to keep themselves in the contest. For 59 minutes of gridiron Using a big-play offense keyed brilliance Saturday evening at by quarterback Steve Beuer­Notre Dame Stadium, it was lein's fine 24-of-39 passing per­hard to tell which team was the formance (311 yards, no inter­one playing for a shot at the ceptions), and a swarming national championship and defense that limited the Nit­which team was simply trying tany Lions to only 5-of-13 third­to get above .500 for the first down conversions, Notre Dame time all year. was able to play Penn State 
Then the Notre Dame foot­evenly and get in a position to ball team did something that ruin the Lions' season. left little doubt to its fans which That particular position was team was which -the Fighting gained in the legendary Notre Irish left yet another chance to Dame fashion, Beuerlein set­upset a nationally-ranked team ting up behind good protection on national television at the and driving 74 yards in the final goal line in the waning seconds. two minutes of the contest on 
Because of Notre Dame's five passes to four different startling reversion to its past receivers. identity-and a Penn State goal­Just as the Irish seemed to be line defense which stymied the on the verge of beginning a new Irish after they had reached a chapter in their history, first-and-goal at the Nittany however, they borrowed an old Lions' six-yard line -Penn script and allowed key mis­State (10-0) was allowed toes­takes and some fine defensive cape with a 24-19 victory over plays by the Lions to spoil their the 4-5 Irish. The win assures upset dreams. the Lions' a spot as the second­The failure to get a second ranked team in the country this tight end into the game on a week and sets up nicely the first-down option pitch to Irish much-ballyhooed New Year's flanker Tim Brown was mis­Day bowl battle with No.1 take number-one, as Penn Miami for the national cham­State safety Ray Isom came in pionship. untouched to throw Brown for 
"It's the kind of game where, a three-yard loss. it sounds like a cliche, but you "There's no doubt the play hate to see either team lose," would have worked other­said Penn State head coach Joe wise," said Beuerlein. "That Paterno. "It was a great effort extra tight end blocks the by both squads. But it's a tough coverage on that side. It's my stadium, a long way from job to make sure everyone gets home, and we won it. And to in, but in all the excitement I win the national championship guess nobody noticed." you've got to win them all." The inability to hold off a 
"It was a great football ferocious Penn State blitz was 
game, if you didn't care who mistake number-two, as Lion won," noted Notre Dame head linebacker Don Graham raced coach Lou Holtz, who saw his in on second down to sack team once again outgain its Beuerlein for a nine-yard loss. favored opponent (this time, Suddenly, the Irish found them­
418-314 yards) only to lose in selves 18 yards away from the the end. "Unfortunately we end zone. did." "The sack was critical," said 
That the Irish cared about Holtz. "It was a lot different 
the game was obvious to all 59,075 in attendance after they see IRISH, page 8 
Inside Monday 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Sports Editor 
So close, but so far away. 
That phrase summarizes more than just Notre Dame's 24-19 loss to Penn State Satur­day. It's more like this season's theme. 
Saturday, the Irish came six yards and five points short of victory, an all-too-familiar tale. While it may be unfair to single out one play in any game, the Irish have been vic­timized all year by the lack of a clutch play. 
In the opening game against Michigan, a field goal goes inches wide, and Notre Dame loses, 24-23. The following week at Michigan State, the Irish trail, 20-15, but are driving with 


Notre Dame tailback Mark Green tries to break free to the outside in Penn State's 24-19 victory over the Irish on Saturday. Marty Burns has 

Big play eludes Holtz' squad, again 
time runniog out. But with 1:26 left, the Spartans' Todd Crumm intercepts a Steve Beuerlein pass to seal the win. Again against Pittsburgh, the Irish trail by a point and drive deep into Panther territory, only to see a field goal miss to the right. 
Satuday's loss to Penn State followed the same script. The Irish took over at their own 20 with 2:29 left to play. Quarter­back Steve Beuerlein, showing coolness under pressure, com­pleted five straight passes despite a heavy Lion rush. Sud­denly, Notre Dame was at the Penn State six with just over a minute to play. Notre Dame fans pleaded with their squad to pull out the last-second vic­tory which had eluded them all year, but it was not meant to be. 
Just two plays later, a first­and-goal at the six had become third-and-goal at the 18. Beuer­lien dropped back again, fired to Joel Williams at the goal line, only to see the ball go off Wil­liams' fingertips as he was hit by Penn State safety Gary Wilkerson. 
The Irish still had one play left, but with all his receivers covered in the end zone and the Lion rush closing in, Beuerlein dumped off to Mark Green, who slipped and fell at the 13. An­other Irish comeback had fal­len short. 
"Real close is the story of my four years here," said Beuer­
see CLOSE, page 9 

Stanford grabs lH crown, 
blanks Flanner in title game
Irish basketball team page 
By CHRIS DALLAVO defensive line of the Studs rolls in exhibition game Sports Writer sacked Flanner quarterback Randy Bridgeman, causing a over Sibenik, 89-68 In the end, Stanford was just fumble. Stanford recovered, too strong. and Martin promptly hit wide The Studs, behind the arm of receiver Jay Landry to move page AI Martin and a dominating into Flanner territory. TheSMC swimming wins defense, powered to a 19-0 vic­Flanner defense rose to the oc­tory over Flanner in Sunday's casion, however, and stopped
season-opener against Interhall football champion­the threat with two sacks. ship game. The teams continued to bat­
8 

North Central, 72-22 
9 

A large crowd saw an excel­tle around midfield, with both lent display of hard-nosed foot­defenses refusing to yield. With page ball, as both teams fought early just over two minutes remain­ND volleyball takes on for control of the line of ing in the first half, Landry scrimmage. broke through the Flanner line North Star title and The victorious Stanford and blocked a punt. The ball coach, Brendan Gilboy, felt rolled out of the end zone for aextends streak to 15 that the key to the game was safety, putting Stanford on top,
10 

the play in the trenches. 2-0, and giving the Studs the "Defensively, we controlled ball at their own 40. 
page the line of scrimmage the en­Martin then orchestrated aFryar's 25-yard catch tire game," he said. "Offen­crucial touchdown drive, utiliz­sively, it took us a little while ing the two-minute offense tolifts Patriots to final-to get going. But that has been perfection. The drive featured our style all year long." key passes to Landry, Chris
10

second win over LA The first half was a battle of the punters until the powerful see STUDS, page 9




