IRISH EXTRA -INSIDE 

VOL. XXI, NO. 47 FRIDAY-SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 7-8, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Cocaine abuse brings long-term problems 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
The long-term problems caused by cocaine abuse greatly exceed any short-term euphoria which may result, ac­cording to Randall Webber in a discussion Thursday night in the Library lounge. Webber, an admitted former addict, is the community relations represen­tative for the Parkside Recovery Center at Augustana Hospital in Chicago. 
"Using cocaine can be like building a relationship with an­other person," said Webber. At first, "you like being with them, and it was fine, but it was no big deal; you wouldn't rear­range your life for them. As you get to know them better, and as you fall in love -maybe fall head over heels in love -you quit school, transfer schools, transfer jobs, live in a different country to live with this one person. The same is true of cocaine." 
Although "cocaine does not produce a physical depen­dency," in which one would ex­perience such symptoms as tremors, vomiting seizures, and hallucinations during withdrawal, cocaine is still an addictive drug, according to Webber. Cocaine is addictive because one experiences "compulsion," "loss of control" of one's use of the drug, and continues to use cocaine regardless of adverse consequences, according to Webber. 
Webber identified and ad­dressed what he called the "myths" about cocaine. 
It is false that the use of cocaine does not or rarely leads to overdose, according to Web­
.. 

ber. "In the last ten years cocaine has gone from the six­teenth leading cause of drug overdose to the second or third .... Some of them (those who take a fatal dosage) are people who are snorting the same amount that they have done twelve weekends in a row . . . . But because of a neurological process called 'kindling,' where the nervous system be­comes very sensitive to cocaine, the thirteenth time they did the same amount of coke, it killed them." 
"Another myth is that cocaine can enhance or produce creativity .... Some­times stimulant drugs like cocaine do make people more alert .... The problem is that the line between the expected dose and a dose that is too much is very thin." 
There also can be immediate negative symptoms with the use of cocaine, according to Webber. "Your heart is going from 130 to 150 beats a minute. Your blood pressure is fifty. Sometimes it's very difficult to swallow." 
In addition, "following every high, there is a low,'_' Webber said. Sometimes cocaine depletes the endorphins in the brain which cause natural highs, leaving the addict "drained and feeling empty for days." 
To avoid this ensuing depres­sion, called a "crash," people sometimes, "take some valium, alcohol or quaaludes in order to sedate (themselves) and go to sleep,'' said Webber. But this leads to further com­plications: "blackouts, han­govers, a secondary depen­
see COCAINE,page 4 

A.Weekend with SMU 
. . 
Alumni Association sets events  
Special to The Observer  
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has prepared a list  
of events scheduled for the fifth home game weekend.  
FRIDAY:  
7 p.m.: Pep Rally at Stepan Center.  
8: 15 p.m.: Glee Club concert in Washington Hall. For tickets,  
call 239-6352.  
SATURDAY:  
10:30 a.m.: Pep Rally in front of the Notre Dame bookstore,  
sponsored by the Dancin' Irish and the Irish Cheerleaders.  
10 a.m. -1 p.m.: Hospitality Center in the ACC North Dome.  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends  
are cordially invited to the Hospitality Center for refresh­ 
ments, entertainment, films and information. Coffee compli­ 
ments of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.  
11 a.m.: Performance by Shenanigans in the ACC North  
Dome.  
11 a.m.: Band concert on the steps of the Administration  
Building.  
12:30 p.m.: Band pre-game performance in the stadium.  
1 p.m.: Football: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Southern  ,  
Methodist Mustangs.  j  
Half-time: Glee Club performance in the stadium.  ,  

After the game: Hospitality Cent~~-~ the AC~No~~~~~~~-J 

45 believed dead after UK crash 
Associated Press 
ABERDEEN, Scotland-A helicopter carrying 47 people from an offshore oil rig crashed and sank in the North Sea on Thursday. Only two survivors were found, and the rest were killed or missing and feared dead. 
The Royal Air Force said the two survivors were plucked from the sea moments after the two-rotor Chinook crashed. Nineteen bodies were recovered and 26 people were missing, it said. 
Six ships and six helicopters scanned the area, and the RAF said the ships would continue searching through the night. 
"However slim it is, there's always hope there may be more survivors,'' said an RAF spokesman at Dunfermline, Scotland, coordination center for the rescue operation. 
Ian Henderson, director of operations for Shell U.K. explo­ration and Production, ·which operates the rigs, told reporters it was "extremely unlikely" anyone in t!te water remained alive. 
The helicopter was ferrying Shell oil workers from the Brent offshore field 135 miles northeast of the Shetland Is­lands to Sumburgh Airport on the southern tip of the ar­chipelago when it went down about two miles from the run­way. 
The Air Force said the helicopter carried 44 pas­sengers and three crew mem­bers. 


Ward officials demand race vote recount after Hiler claims victory 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Campaign officials for Democrat Thomas Ward demanded a recount Thursday after new vote totals released in St. Joseph County showed incumbent Republican John Hiler the apparent winner of the 3rd District congres­sional race. 
Two Democratic members of the county election board refused Thursday to sign the papers certifying the vote as of­ficial. 
An angry Hiler called a press conference and threatened court action to force the board members to sign the certifica­tion. 
The new totals showed Hiler leading by 166 votes. The revised district count showed Hiler with 75,952 votes and Ward with 75,786 votes. 
Ward's campaign manager, Mike Marshall, said Ward will ask for a recount. "If we have to recount every single vote in the 3rd District, we will," Mar­shall said. 
Ward, who had claimed vic­tory after Tuesday's vote, refused to concede defeat. "Nothing is certified. Every­thing is unofficial,'' he said. 
Unofficial but complete returns Wednesday had given Ward a 1,613-vote margin. But Hiler claimed a miscount in St. Joseph County after the totals gave Ward a margin that exceeded the Democratic count in recent elections. 
AI Duranek, chairman of the county Vote Canvass Board, confirmed the miscount 
Thursday.  He  said  Hiler  
received  28,260  votes  in  St.  
Joseph  County  and  Ward  

received 40,952 in the revised count. Although the new count gave Ward 120 more votes, it gave Hiler 1,890 more votes and erased Ward's early district­wide margin. 
Duranek blamed the mis­count on human error. 
"It's a matter of one guy tel­ling the other guy, and he didn't hear the numbers right," he said. The votes would be tallied again before the final number is certified to the secretary of state's office, he said. 
Hiler did not discuss the sit­uation Thursday and his office did not respond to repeated calls for comment. 
But Hiler had claimed vic­tory by a 160-vote margin Wed­nesday. "It isn't as big as we'd like to see, but we'll take it any way we can get it,'' he said. 
If Ward's campaign offi­cially requests a recount, an untested Indiana law passed after the 8th District battle in 1984 will guide the procedure. 
The 1985 state law created a bipartisan, three-member state recount commiSsion chaired by the secretary of state and including the state chairmen of the two major po­litical parties, or their desig­nated substitutes. 
The Observer 

In Brief 
A daring helicopter escape Wednesday has prompted officials to tighten security at a suburban prison in San Francisco after an escaped con man in a stolen helicopter airlifted his inmate sweetheart to freedom. FBI agents, federal marshals and police were searching intensively for escapees Ronald Mcintosh and Samantha Lopez. Ac­cording to Jerry Williford, western regional director of federal prisons, it was the first aerial escape from a federal prison. -Associated Press. 
"Gustbusters" have some remedies for renegade winds that bounce off tall buildings and blow city dwellers around · like fuzzy dandelions. The ''gustbusters '' are actually wind engineers who have proposed methods to slow down street­level winds by placing buffers such as trees or recessed doorways at the bases of city skyscrapers. -Associated Press. 

Of Interest 
''The World of Engineering'' will be discussed in today's "Society and Ethics" series forom 12:15 to 1 p.m. in the Multipurpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns. Speaking will be Father Drew Christiansen of the Theology department and Steve Batill of the Aerospace department. Faculty and staff are welcome to attend. -The Observer 
SOLA's annual "Pena" Party will be held Saturday from 8 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. at Wilson Commons. All are invited to attend this free event which will include Latin American food, drink and entertainment. -The Observer 
"Biotechnology and Medicine of the Future" will be focused on Sunday night at 8 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Dr. Leroy Hood, Director of the Cancer Center at California Institute of Technology, will present the lec­ture sponsored by Notre Dame's College of Science and Department of Biological Sciences. -The Observe1· 
The ftlm, "God and Money," scheduled to a,ir on PBS-TV Sunday night at 10, features some of the work of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Busi­ness. In December 1983, the Center organized a confer­ence, "Catholic Social Teaching and the U.S. Economy," for the U.S. Bishops writing the pastoral letter on the economy. Attended by a number of bishops and over 250 theologians and economists, the conference focused on the documentary, which will be aired locally on Channel 34. The center's programs are designed to strengthen the Judeo-Christian ethical foundations in business and public policy decisions by fostering dialogue between academic and corporation leaders and by research and publications. 
-The Observer 


Weather 
Yea, I'm the weather-man, see. And I say there is a ... a 30. percent chance of rain today. Yea, that's it. And tempera­tures will go up into the 50s-no, 60s. Yea, that's the ticket. And tomorrow there's a 40 percent chance for rain, see. Upper 60s too. That's right. Can you believe it? 
-The Observer 


Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 2 

Proposed parietals changes would only lessen privacy and uniqueness 
parietal: adj. of or pertaining to campus life or its rules, esp. with respect to visiting hours in a dormitory for members of the opposite sex. 
The Random House Dictionary states this def­inition of a word which many students were unfamiliar with before they attended Saint Mary's or Notre Dame. It did not take long, however, for students to catch on to their new way of life in college. Saint Mary's student gov­ernment recently voted down the pursuit of a proposal to change the current hours of parie­tals at Saint Mary's. Currently, the hours of parietals at the College are: Weekdays from 4 
p.m. to midnight, Friday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m., Saturday from noon to 2 a.m.; and Sunday from noon to midnight. 
The proposed change eliminates the require­ment for a male to leave his ID at the front desk; it does not, however, eliminate the re­quirement for the male to be escorted through­out the dorm. Adopting this proposed change would demand the honor system and would only 

backfire. It would do away with what Saint Mary's stands for as a Catholic women's col­lege. The privacy, security, closeness and uniqueness would be lessened and the campus life would resemble that of a state university with 24 hour visitation. Such a system would potentially encourage abuse. 
The current parietals system exemplifies the College's trust of the students as well as nur­tures individual maturity. A change would only increase tension between resident advisors and other hall staff members. The few careless, im­mature students who would not employ the honor system, would ruin the chance for suc­cess. 
The system as it stands now, is not foolproof. Many students violate parietals. I don't think these violations are as severe as they would be if the honor system were in effect. I then ask, who would be responsible for reporting an in­dividual if the new system were in effect? Most likely, the RA's would have another responsi­bility on their shoulders. This drastic increase of responsibility is unfair and the different way each RA would handle her own particular sit­uation would not be fair to the student, who happened to be on her floor. Because of the increased responsibility for the student, the severity of punishment, if parietals were vio­lated, would undoubtedly increase. 
The convienence and security of having ID's left at the desk is evident when the desk worker will call if you fall asleep--ten or fifteen minutes after parietals are over. 
The new system would also promote confu­
~BLOWOUT 10-close 
·NeS· ---.

~Sat, Nov 8 $4.00 all the 
\)S')t'· '1ii Wb ?'
r::ri beer you can drink. 

\~t \O b J ~ r 1027 E. Wayne oot\ ·~-•""'" . Tues-Sun,noon-6
~ Two /D's required. 

~ ···-~-1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy~Featuring 'Guilli's ty 
232-8444 u.-a -•otltdate.oob .._..t. -w.....a.. 
~Band' 1.0.1. 


• Give a hoot.
Leave a 
Don't pollute.


clean trail. 
Forest Service, U.S.D.A. rR 

l 
sion and stress between roommates. What if 
someone were kicked out of their room for the 
night? What if someone went to take a shower 
and couldn't because a male was? 
These incidents are not foreign now with the current system, and a change would allow them to . happen more ~requently. The privacy of bemg able to walk m the dorm late at night and the s~curity of knowing not just anyone can walk mto your hall would be diminished. 
Parietal hours have not always been so lenient; up until the 1920's, male visitors were allowed only in the hall parlors on Wednesday's from 
1:30 to 4:30p.m. The ever popular Sunday night Tea dances were then instituted in the 1930's and 40's allowing Notre Dame students more time in the hall parlor. In the fifties and sixties male visitors were allowed in the parlors every night of the week. Visitation in private rooms was instituted in 1970, when the hours were lim­ited to 17 per week. The hours were Friday from 6 to 10 p.m.; Saturday from 1 to 10 p.m.; and 
l Sunday from 1 to 5 p.m. Finally, in 1978, parie­tals were extended, making the hours 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Friday's and 1 p.m. to 2 a.m. on Sat­
I urday's. In 1982, parietals were instituted on weekdays from 5 to 10 p.m.; Friday from 5 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Saturday from 1 p.m. to 2 a.m.; and Sunday from 1 to 10 p.m. 
Slowly but surely the College has changed with the times. Now is not a time to change again. The current parietals system has satisfied the majority of students and it will continue to do so. 
Eras•as Books 

Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ........ Cathy Stacy ................... Andy Fenoglio Layout Staff. .......... Matt Breslin Typesetters . ........... Smed Laboe ................... Chris Reardon News Editor . .......... Regis Coccia Copy Editor ........... Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor . ... Rick Rietbrock ...................... PeteGegen ..................... Terry Lynch ................... Marty Strasen 

Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Julie Collinge Viewpoint Layout . ... Kathleen Moran Accent Copy Editor .... Eric Bergamo ....................... Ed Nolan Accent Layout ......... Karen Webb ................... Heather Hypes Typists . .............. Esther Ivory ND Day Editor . .... Noreen O'Connor SMC Day Editor ....... Karen Radar Ad Design ...... Mary Carol Creadon Irish Extra Layout Kathleen McKernan Photographer . ......... Mike Moran 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
Tile Oblerver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Oblerver is published by the studenis of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's CoUege. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tile Oblerver, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tile Oblerver is a member of Tile Aslodated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-----~ ------------~~----~---..:.----~---------~-----~---·~-~----~-------~ 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
I I 


COMPUTER DATE APPLICATION I 
I 
I 
IINAME---------------------­
1 Phone Number___________________ Year ________________________________________________ 
Sex________________________ 
The Observer /Mike Moran 

Steeple Chase 
Scaffolding and_ a crane surround the Sacred Heart Church steeple as workmen repair the aging structure. 
..{,f ' 



Reagan denies shipment to Iran 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Reagan on Thursday tried to quell reports that his adminis­tration helped win release of three hostages held in Lebanon by aiding the transfer of defense supplies by Israel to Iran. 
Israel, with the blessing of the White House, shipped Iran spare parts and missiles for U.S.-made F-4 jet fighters as well as parts for American­made C-130 planes, radars and other war supplies, according to the Los Angeles Times. 
Reagan, asked by reporters whether he had a deal with Iran, said: "No comment, but could I suggest an appeal to all of you with regard to this, that the speculation, the comment­ing and all on a story that came out of the Middle East. . . one that to us has no foundation, that all of that is making it more difficult for us in our ef­fort to get the other hostages free." 
Later, White House spokes­man Albert Brashear refused to specify which story Reagan meant when he said it had "no foundation." 
"I'm just not going to com­ment on what he was referring to, which stories might be fac­tual and which are not. I just can't do that right now because it would be dangerous for me to do so," Brashear said. 
Reports of the deal began ap­pearing after the speaker of the Iranian parliament, Hashemi Rafsanjani, said in a speech Tuesday that former White House national security ad­viser Robert McFarlane had visited Tehran, had been con­fined to his hotel room and then expelled. McFarlane carried a 
message  from  Reagan,  said  
Rafsanjani.  
The  White  House  has  

declined to comment on Raf­sanjani's remarks, and McFar­lane told reporters in Cleveland Thursday that he could not of­fer any specifics. 
According to reports pub­lished Thursday in the Los An­geles Times and the Washing­ton Post, administration officials began working with Is­raeli authorities 18 months ago to arrange top-secret 
1. What is the first thing you look for in a date.? 
a. 
looks 

b. 
personality 

c. 
sense of humor 

d. 
common interests 

e. 
intelligence 



2. How would you describe yourself? 
a. 
outgoing 

b. 
athletic 

c. 
shy 

d. 
funny 



3. What is your favorite type of date? 
a. 
party 

b. 
dinner 

c. 
movie 



4. What is your musical taste? 
a. 
progessive 

b. 
rock &roll 

c. 
dance 

d. 
pop 

e. 
Big Chill era 



5. What is your favorite interest? 
a. 
sports 

b. 
theatre 

c. 
music 

d. 
politics 

e. 
reading 


d. sporting event 

Please complete and mail to: 
e. museum 

Computer Date c/o Student Government 2nd Floor, Lafortune 
DEADLINE: Tuesda November 11th 
deliveries to Tehran of U.S. arms desperately needed by Iran in its see-saw war with Iraq. 
The shipments, made with the personal approval of Reagan, began last year and led to the release of three American hostages, most recently David Jacobsen, who was freed last Sunday by Lebanese Shi'ite Moslem ex­tremists with ties to Iran, ac­cording to the reports. 
Earlier shipments led to the release of two other American hostages, the Rev. Benjamin Weir in September 1985 and the Rev. Lawrence Jenco last July, the reports said. 
The Times reported that the deal with Iran was worked out by McFarlane before he stepped down as Reagan's na­tional security adviser earlier this year. 
McFarlane traveled to Iran several times with a top aide, Lt. Col. Oliver North, the Na­tional Security Council's dep­uty director for political and military affairs, the Times reported. 
GM announces 11 plant closings, more to come 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-General Motors Corp. will close 11 plants employing more than 29,000 workers over the next three years to reduce overcapacity and cut losses at the No. 1 U.S. automaker, the company said Thursday. 
Closing the three stamping, 

one body and seven final as­
sembly plants in Michigan, Il­
linois, Ohio and Missouri will 
reduce GM's fixed costs by $500 
million a year, Chairman 
Roger Smith said in a long­
awaited announcement. 
GM and United Auto Workers 

officials had no estimate of how 
many workers will lose their 
jobs, saying it will be months 
before they know how many 
workers will be able to transfer 
to other plants and how many 
will be retrained for new jobs 
atGM. 
"There's too many unknowns 

here," said Frank Joyce, a 
UAW spokesman in Detroit. 
The closings were part of the 

first phase of a reorganization 
and modernization at GM. 
Other assembly, stamping, en­
gine and component plants are 
being studied, said GM presi­
dent James McDonald. 
GM suffered third-quarter 

operating losses of about $338 
million. 
.W.TOO CAN EAT! Slltolll Dinner 
FlitMStyll T-.-lhun. 
100 Center Old Brewery Building Mishawaka 
Reservations 
255-1526 T-.-n.w.S-9 
Prt.&Jat.J-10 
The Observer 


The Observer /Margaret Mannion 
Piano pair 
Laurie Bink and Vince Willis merge musical skills on the grand piano in LaFortune's Theodore's. 


Pope to visit US South, West in '87 

Associated Press 

Stadiums will become churches for Pope John Paul II's visit to eight U.S. cities next year when the pontiff will meet with members of his flock and with Jewish, Moslem, Hindu, Buddhist and American 
Indian leaders. 
The eight-day trip begins Sept. 10 and will take the pope to Miami; Columbia, S.C.; New Orleans; San Antonio, Texas; Phoenix, Ariz,; Los Angeles; Monterey, Calif.; and San Francisco, the National Con­ference of Catholic Bishops said Wednesday. 
Millions of people are ex­pected to attend the events, which follow recent discipli­
~ 
i 
nary actions by Vatican offi­cials against some American churchmen they considered too liberal in their views on social and sexual issues. 
But the pope remains popular among the nation's 52 million Roman Catholics, and church officials believe he will receive a joyous welcome, much as he did during his first visit, to the East and Midwest in 1979. 
"I hope it's an occasion for spiritual renewal for all our 

Cocaine 
continuedfrom page 1 
dency on alcohol," doubling the number of addictions, accor­ding to Webber. 
Webber was skeptical of 

claims that cocaine can be used in a controlled manner. "It's, not a matter of will power, it's a matter of the brain changing. It's a matter of great, primitive and very powerful changes oc­curring that you cannot con­trol." 
Webber attributed the effects of cocaine to its action on the 
pleasure center or limbic sys­tem of the brain, which is operative in the drive for sex or food. "The brain begins to hunger for cocaine just as it does for food or sex." 
One of the major tasks of therapy is "breaking through denial," according to Webber. "Spirituality" or a "belief in a force greater than you" is often essential to the recovery of cocaine addicts. 
people," Bishop Thomas O'Brien of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Phoenix told a news conference. "It's a special time for Catholics and I hope it be­comes a special time for all faiths for spiritual renewal." 
In Miami, the pope will meet with representatives of the Jewish community and with priests on the first day of his tour. The next day, he will celebrate an outdoor Mas~ there, then travel to Columbia to meet with national ecumeni­cal leaders and take part in a joint prayer service at the. Uni­versity of South Carolina stadium. 
He then flies to New Orleans, where 90,000 people are ex­pected to turn out for a youth rally at the Superdome, and up to 500,000 will be able to attend an outdoor Mass at the Univer­sity of New Orleans, said Arch­bishop Philip Hannan. 
The evening of Sept. 12, the pope will speak at predominantly black Xavier University to Catholic college and university leaders. 
"You could estimate that anywhere from 1 million to 2 million people are going to stand along the route," said New Orleans police Officer Asa French. 
"It will be maybe the only 
one-man parade in the history 
of Canal Street -no doubloons 
-and will be in the Popemobile," 
said New Orleans Archbishop 
Philip Hannan, referring to the 
city's Mardi Gras parades. 

The pontiff flies to San An­tonio the next day. There, he will celebrate another outdoor Mass, meet with U.S. catholic charity leaders and social ac­tion leaders and with young wo­men and men. 
On Sept. 14, he will fly to Phoenix, where he will meet with Catholic health care leaders, visit the sick in a hospital and meet with 1,500 In­dians from Arizona and New Mexico. 
"It was determined that na­tive Americans should be a spe­cial part of his visit," O'Brien said. 
The pope also will celebrate Mass at the Arizona State Uni­versity's 70,000-seat Sun Devil Stadium. O'Brien seemed both­ered by the name and said with a laugh, "We're going to bap­tize the stadium." 

An immediate care medical facility for minor illness or injury. 
~: 
r--------..---, •Open 1 mt to IOpm 7 days a week 
• 
Staffed by medical professionals 

• 
Conveniendy located across (rom Univenity Park Mall on SR 23








=1· ' 
• No appointment 
1-•(iiiiiij"'o.,..____....l---1 •~~::;:~t 
• Lab and X-ray facilities 
L--_...______..___. •Reasonable rates 
6349 University Commons • Cash. credit cards South Bend, Indiana 46635 and checks accepted 
(219) 272-9900 
A cooperative venture of Same Joseph's Care Group and Saint Joseph Hospital of Mishawaka. 
Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 4 
New influenza strain strikes, Health officials concerned 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-The new in­
fluenza strain that health offi­
cials warned about three 
months ago has arrived in the 
United States in the first re­
ported cases of the 1986-87 flu 
season, the national Centers for 
Disease Control reported 
Thursday. 
The flu virus has been iso­
lated this fall in six patients in 
the United States-three in 
Texas, one in New York state 
and one in Hawaii, the Atlanta­
based agency said. 
The CDC said an early anal­
ysis of the viruses found in New 
York and Hawaii shows that 
they appear similar to the 
Taiwan flu, a new strain the 
agency reported in August 
after it was detected in Sout­
heast Asia. 
r 
Discovery of the new flu prompted the federally recom­mended development of a new vaccine to be administered in addition to ·the standard vac­cine, which guards against three other flu strains. 
With only a few flu cases re­ported, it's impossible to predict the seriousness of this winter's flu season or how widespread the new Taiwan flu might be, said Dr. Karl Kap­pus, a CDC influenza specialist. 
The standard flu vaccine, recommended for older people and people with heart or lung disorders, guards against the previously reported strains which researchers know as Type A-H1Nl, or the Chile flu; Type A-H3N2, or the Missis­sippi flu; and Type B, or the Ann Arbor flu. 
n 
r 
onr,~IRELAND 
Century 1987 Calendar 
Anyone who holds affection for the people and places of Ireland will want to have this unique calendar. It helps preserve the Irish heritage, bringing back memories for the old and creating new ones for the young. 
Looking at its historical photographs and reading its numerous daily notations recalling events from Irish history will carry your mind and heart from Dublin to Galway, Cork to Belfast, prompting feelings of joy and pride. 
An ideal gift for relatives, students, friends and business acquaintances. A great stocking stuffer for so many people on your Christmas list this year! 
To order simply fill out the order form below. 
A Calendar Created for Everyone Who Loves Ireland 
Please send me copies of the TURN OF THE CENTURY IRELAND CALENDAR for 1987 at $5.95, plus $1.00 shipping and handling. I enclose my check/money order for the full amount $ . (California residents add 6% sales tax.) WHOLESALE INQUIRIES INVITED. 
Name 
Address ------------------­City __________ State Zip ___ 
Send to: BREFFNI ENTERPRISES 6371 El Cajon Blvd., Suite 171 San Diego, CA 92115 

•
•
•



RENTALS 
•
•

• No Deposit 95t Over 1500 Free Membership titles in stock No Hassle per day • 
(2day min) 
"Early Bird Special" (blockbuster and Premium Movies -N/A) 



Rent-A-Video Player 
$9.95 
for3 days Plus-1st Movie 
FREE •

MA@IIINf. 
512 W. Edison Mishawaka 


Curtis
256-0226 55011 Mayflower South Bend 
1111111111111111111~4i:ittll-ll~~ 
288-8348 HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER • 
--------------~~~~~~~----­
-~~---­




' 



Read all about Father Hesburgh in "The Hesburgh Legacy" 
. 


In this Sunday's Chicago Tribune . Sunday Magazine. 
. 


This special issue will be available this Saturday, November 8th 
I 


at the stadium after the S.M.U. game. It will also be available at ,·· · the South Dining Hall or at motels 
• 


and restaurants near the toll road. 
f ­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 6 · 
Judge recommends against parole for Walker and son 
Associated Press ity clearance to obtain classi­fied information about Navy 
BALTIMORE-Former Navy communications, ship radioman John Walker Jr., ad· locations and routes, weapons mitted head of a family spy and sensor data and Navy tac­ring, was sentenced to life im­tics, and delivered it to the prisonment Thursday and his Soviets, pulling family mem­son Michael was given a 25-bers into the arrangement. His year term by a judge who brother Arthur, 52, is serving a urged they be denied parole. life term for espionage. 
"Your task was to defend In the pre-sentence report, your country; you chose to prosecutors wrote that "if it betray it," U.S. district Judge were possible to rate the harm Alexander Harvey told the to the nation caused by partic­elder Walker, 49, who received ular acts of espionage, then the 
~ nearly $1 million from the So­injury caused by the Walker viet Union for his spying. espionage ring must be of the "Your motive was pure first rank."
~ 
r greed and you were paid hand­The judge adhered to the pre­somely for your traitorous sentencing recommendations
' 
acts," Harvey said. of U.S. Attorney Breckinridge 
f The judge, a World War II Willcox, as well as the plea bar­veteran, expressed personal gain agreement reached with revulsion that two enlisted ser­the Walkers in October 1985, in
r 
r vicemen could turn against which the elder Walker agreed r their country, and added, "In to testify against former Navy r my opinion, your espionage ac­radioman Jerry Whitworth and 
. 
tivities have caused tremen­reveal details of his spy activ­dous harm to the national se­ities. curity of this country.'' However, he recommended 
Evidence showed Walker that no parole be granted to used his high-level Navy secur-either man. White Crusader (foreground) and America II, 

Future summits in 


~Godfatht:r•s Pizza~
doubt after talks 
Find one. Its worth it. TM
Associated Press Shevardnadze apparently did 
not accept. VIENNA, Austria-U.S. Sec­retary of State George Shultz A package of U.S. proposals, 
• and Soviet Foreign Minister reflecting the tentative arms Eduard Shevardnadze failed reduction accords reached in Thursday to make headway last month's Iceland summit, 
CRUST ONE MEDIUM-MEDIUM
toward curbing nuclear weap­were presented last week to So­
ons and left the future of arms viet negotiators. U.S. officials 
TOPPING EACH FOR SMALL control and superpower sum­said the Soviets have not 
$9.99 plus tax & delivery

mits in doubt. responded. 
Godfatha"s
Shultz told reporters after his Shevardnadze, at an airport 
Godfatha"s 

~Pizza.
five hours of talks with news conference, said "we will 

Pizza. 

--\.;'iF Find one
Find one.

Shevardnadze over two days: put forth our new proposals" 
It's wont~ it
.JI's worth ir.

"I can't say that the meetings Friday at Geneva. He said they 
One coupon per piau al pmici.-tiat!: iocatioDa. Not valkl in ~lion with my other offer.

have moved arms control mat­would be "guided by the posi­ters along in any significant tions reached at Reykjavik." way, and I regret this." The official said the Soviets 
Shevardnadze said he was re­would again demand testing of 
We Deliver to a Limited Area
turning to Moscow "with a bit­"Star Wars" technology be ter taste" after being con­limited to laboratories, 
52920 US 31 North 
fronted with "a mixed bag of abolishing all strategic weap­old mothballed views and ap­ons by 1996, and an end to U.S. 
South Bend, IN 
proaches." development of short-range nu­
277-5880
Summing up the meetings, clear weapons to be used for which took place while Western Europe's defense. Shevardnadze and Shultz were in Vienna for a conference on human rights and East-West relations, one senior U.S. offi­cial said: "it was a bust." 
Another senior U.S. official, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said there would be no further high-level sessions until the Soviets indicated a 

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM willingness to negotiate con­

State University of New York at 
structively. 
BUFFALO
Shevardnadze said another offering Graduate and
superpower summit "will all depend on further contacts. 
Professional Programs in The dialogue will be contin­
Architecture & Environmenlal Design Arts & Sciences
ued." Soviet leader Mikhail 
Dental Medicine
Gorbachev agreed last Novem­
• -Educational Studies 
Engineering & Applied Sciences Health Related Professions 
ber to a meeting with President 
Reagan in Washington this 
Information & Library Science 
year. 
Law 

Management Medicine 
~inf~~

Shultz said the subject 
"never came up" in his talks 
Nursing
with Shevardnadze. 
Pharmacy •
!I'OIIIi-.Jtak.. ~.u ..4 :F'-' 

Social Work
Speaking of efforts to reverse 
g;~~ :F~-' :F~

the arms race, Shultz said: 
"this is a long-paced negotia­
d. ~lie :r~.,; .1~ 

will be on campus
tion, I'm sure, and it has its 
..lt.t ~ [ilk,. u. !I'Oflli. PJ-1-J~

rhythm .... The pace cannot be forced by either party." 
November 7, 1986 
U.S.-Soviet arms control 
10:00am -3:00pm 
talks in Geneva are to recess next week until January. Shultz offered to have U.S. and Soviet experts meet in the interim, but 


The Observer Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 7 
":HINA o GL.ASS o TOYS • FURNITURE 0 TOOLS -----JEWELRY 0 PAINTINGS • VINTAGE CLOTHING 
President signs immigration law 
ANTIQUE DEALERS 
MARKET 
BETHEL COLLEGE • GOODMAN AUDITORIUM 1001 W. McKinley Ave. • Mishawaka 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
• INDOORS -HEATED -FOOD -FREE PARKING • 
SATURDAY 8 A.M. to 4:30 P.M. 

I PUBLIC INVITED $1.50 ADMISSION 
PRESENT THIS CARD FOR 
DISCOUNT 25' DISCOUNT 

I 
I. 
-----ARKPRODUCTIONS • P.O.Box1331 • Mlshawaka.IN·Ui544 • (219)236.1208 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-President Reagan, signing into law the most sweeping immigration reform in more than 30 years, expressed hope Thursday that the measure will preserve "one of the most sacred possessions of our people-American citizenship." 
Millions of illegal aliens may become eligible to remain in the United States legally under the act, approved in the waning days of the 99th Congress after years of political wrangling. 
But sponsors of the measure 
have expressed fears the com­
plex law may trigger an admin­
istrative nightmare. 
Reagan, before signing the 
measure, noted that illegal im­
migration "should not ... be 
seen as a problem between the 
United States and its neigh­
bors." 
Some opponents of the mea­
sure had argued the bill would 
prompt widespread discrimi­
nation against such groups as 
Hispanics . 

With nearly two dozen law­makers and administration of­ficials standing behind him, Reagan used four pens to sign the two-inch thick bill during a 
brief  ceremony  in  the  
Roosevelt Room.  
For  aliens who have  been  

living in the United States il­legally since before 1982, the bill contains an amnesty provi­sion that will enable them to obtain temporary legal residency. That can be con­verted to permanent residency _status after 18 months for those who can demonstrate a mini­mal understanding of English and some knowledge of U.S. 
history and government. 
Officials do not know how many people will fit in that cat­egory but expect several mil­lion applications. 
Under the measure, the gov­ernment changes hiring prac­tices across the country by re­quiring all employers to verify that newly-hired employees are legal U.S. residents. 
And those caught hiring ille­gal aliens will be subject to tough new penalties-a system of civil fines and criminal prosecutions that could result in prison terms for habitual of­fenders. 
Officials also must administer a new program for ­thousands of migrant foreign workers who enter the country to harvest perishable fruits and vegetables. 
Rep. Peter Rodino, D-N.J., chairman of the House Judiciary Committee and long­time proponent of immigration reform, said the law means employers "know there is a penalty for hiring illegal aliens." 
The employer sanctions would be phased in after a six­month education period. The following year, first offenders can be issued warning cita­tions, and repeat offenders would become subject to $3,000 to $10,000 fines for each illegal alien they hire. 
Those who make it a "pattern or practice" to hire undocu­mented workers could face up to six months in prison. 
Jewish family to meet Polish protectors 

Associated Press benefactors: please poison our bread, please· give us a gun to 
NEW York-For 2 years, a end our misery. family of Polish Jews hid from the Nazis in a trench the size "No," Jozef and Stephania of two coffins under a Christian Macugowski told the Razda 
· couple's home. Again and family. "One day the war will again, the Jews begged their be over. As long as we live, you 
$$ ! ! !Let's Talk Money$$$ Ifinterested check out 
TRADE NET 
Adiscount brokerage service A real student company Information-Meeting 

$ 
~ 
Nov.11at7pm ~ Hayes-Healy room 220 For info call1498, 1496, or 1483 
otre Dame Ave Apartments 


2bedrooms, completely furnished Second Semester Discount Program 
Call for Details 234-6647 

~~~iij~~ii!~~:iiiiiizz~agijgi.1liljijgijilj 
Hey N D • • We're throwing a party
for·yOUI 
• 
Beaux Arts BaII FaII ,86 ~f"' 
...•tt~"
Friday, NOV 7 \~-, · Arch. Bldg. ~\.\. 
9·.30·2·.00 

$4.00 advance/$5•00 at the d00f Tickets at Dinin Halls Friday 
will live. We will never .let you die." 
This weekend, the two families will embrace for the first time in more than 40 years. The Polish couple is coming to New York, where Is­raeli officials will honor them as ''righteous among the na­tions" -gentiles who put their lives on the line for Jews in peril. 
"If the Nazis had caught them saving us, they would have killed them before killing us," said Zahava Burack, who was 9 years old when she, her parents and two of her sisters were taken in by the Macugowskis. 
One night in 1942, Jews in their town of Nowy Korczyn were told to leave their homes and march to the railroad sta­tion for "relocation," the Nazi term for deportation to slave labor and death camps. 
Louis Radza, a juice manu­facturer, recalled that Jozef Macugowski, an acquaintance, had casually offered his help if needed. 
Radza, his wife, Gitla, and daughters Zahava, Miriam and Sarah slipped away from the line and sought refuge with Macugowski. Another daughter, Rita, was separated from the family and boarded the train for the concentration camp. 
The Macugowskis never 

wavered, despite the risk of 
their own lives, despite 
Poland's own history of anti-Sem.itism that made many Poles turn their backs on the 
Jews. 
R:~ts:~f~'tr!~~hU:~r~: 
floorboards of a storage room; this ditch, 5 feet wide by 7 feet long by 20 inches deep, was to be the Jews' home for 2 years, during which time they never spoke in voices louder than a whisperandneversawthelight 
ofl~a~ew even more crowded. A cousin of the Razdas was 
thrown off a transport by her doomed family and somehow made it to the Macugowskis. A 
desperate partisan knocked on 
New and Timely 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME A CONTEMPORARY PORTRAIT 
. 
"' 
i ­
, ' , .' 
., ..,.~ . ...: 
·--u ' ll 'J l'"•.tf• .,. ­
~ ~ 4 
; -; '['I 
ROBERT P. SCHMUHL 

$16.95 hardcover available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
't~~~~~~~~~~~~m!~~~~~~~~!l:l~ the Macugowskis' door. Two 
0000~10S~~~~S>eJCS'lC3iS)a00iS)e~~~~~~~~ !! .others sought refuge. 
---~~----~-----­

~i~~~_()__i_l_l_-_t__________________Fr-ida-y-Sa-tur-day-,N-ove~mb-er-7-8-,19-86--pa~ge8 
P.O.BoxQ 

Discussions on sexual violence received well 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the Saint Mary's com­munity, I want to thank the Sex Offense Services of Madison Center, especially Debbie Melloan-Ruiz and Laurel Eslinger for their 'generous assistance with planning and implementing the program: "It Happens to Everyone: Sexual Violence Against Women, Chil­dren and Men." The program ad­dressed all aspects of sexual violence including rape, as well as date rape, legal and medical issues of sexual as­sault, child sexual violence, sexual har­assment and ended with a discussion giving hope for a non-violence approach to violence by Saint Mary's Campus Ministry. 
Without Melloan-Ruiz and Eslinger's 
expertise and knowledge in the area, 
the program would not have been the 
success it was. The need for the pro­
gram was obvious as over 680 students, 
faculty and staff attended with over ten 
students receiving certification for at­
tending all seven programs. 
Concerned individuals such as Melloan-Ruiz and Eslinger truly make . a difference in the South Bend commu­nity. 
Sarah L. Cook Student Body Vice President for Student Affairs Saint Mary's College 

Possibility of peace 
makes SDI doubtful 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing to argue with some of the points Chris Julka made in his ar­ticle "Star Wars is a vital aspect of defense package" (Oct. 30). He argues that a space-based laser defense sys­tem is a beneficial component of arms control. However, several serious fal­lacies in his argument undermine his credibility. 
Julka says the Strategic Defense Ini­tiative's only value is in that it will in­crease the enforceability of a disarma­ment treaty, aside from current infrared and satellite technology, and prompt the formation of bi-national on­site inspection committees. In reality the deployment of an-anti-ballistic defense system, in blatant violation of 
Doonesbury 
the 1972 ABM Treaty, would be more destabilizing than any such disarma­ment agreement the system is designed to enforce. He admits that the system is still in the most primitive develop­ment stages, and that even an eradica­tion level as high as 96 percent is com­pletely unacceptable given the thousands of possible attacking mis­siles. 
Julka also writes, "If anything, one would expect Gotbachev to support Star Wars more enthusiastically than Reagan, for by doing so he could only have made his capitalist rival that much more needlessly poor." No way. The costs incurred from testing would be far more easily absorbed by our eco­nomy than by theirs, not to mention the benefits incurred by extraneous appli­cation of such developed technology. The reason Gorbachev is against Star Wars is that if we actually managed to put such a system into reasonable op­eration, they would have no choice but to do the same. Their already weak eco­nomy could not support the strain of such an extended expenditure. 
His most preposterous claim is that perhaps the Russians really aren't in­terested in disarmament and world peace. I have been to the Soviet Union and talked with people there, and they are just as peace-conscious and con­cerned for the future of their children and their country as we are. To imply that they aren't interested in disarma­ment is suspicious, self-righteous, and a dangerously inflexible view to hold in today's changing political world. 
A total disarmament treaty is not feasible right now, this is true. Political and economic relations between the two countries simply are too hostile to take the chance of total disarmament with­out enforceability. But to spend billions of dollars desperately needed else­where in the national and international economy on a highly questionable and (hopefully) ultimately useless defense system is inhuman. With American farms failing, schools sinking deeper into debt, medical and other research programs folding, and shocking poverty and malnutrition in the Third World, how can we as a humanitarian society deny our people the real benefits of modern technology while pursuing a phantom defense in an im­aginary war? The absurdities do not quite "disappear," do they, Mr. Julka? 
Beth Chalecki Lewis Hall 

Administration treats sexuality archaically 
During fall break, I vislted a friend of mine at Yale University. While I was there, a young lady knocked upon my friend's door and handed him booklets for the residents of his room. I asked my friend what they were and he tossed me one and said, "See for yourself." 
remembered the long arm of Du Lac and put the evil book away. 
The preceding story, although a bit ridiculous, is quite true. I wrote it the way I did for a specific purpose. I wanted to show how ridiculous the ad­ministration's attitude toward sexual issues is. I would like to think Notre 
Tom Varnum Dame is on par with Yale as a complete university, but after seeing this booklet, I cannot. I cannot understand how thethird and long administration can pay such little at­tention to such an important subject in 
"Sex and the Yale Student" the cover read. As I read the table of contents, I saw some topics which are anathema here under the Dome. Contraception, abortion, and homosexuality were the greatest offenders to my Notre Dame eyes. I was shocked, nay astonished, to find these topics discussed openly in a university published pamphlet. 
Despite my .fear of instant excom­munication for reading such evil things, I turned to the page entitled "Contraception." Instead of finding the word ABSTENTION printed in large, bold letters across both pages, I found a factual account of the reliability, availability and use of many different types of contraception. 
When I finished reading this chapter and realized I hadn't been struck by lightning, I turned to the chapter en­titled ''Abortion.'' Instead of finding NO printed in large, bold letters across the page, I found a factual account of the pros and cons of abortion. Included in the chapter was a hotline number and the name of a hospital which would per­form the operation safely. 
Realizing I had not descended into the fiery depths of you-know-where, I closed my eyes and turned to the chap­ter "Homosexuality." As I opened my eyes, instead of finding SEE NOTES ON ABORTION printed across the pages, I again saw a fa'ctual publica­tions, one for men and one for women, exclusively for homosexuals. 
. I could not believe my eyes. These subjects that the all-mighty Notre -Dame refuses to discuss were all found within one book. As I was turning to the section entitled "Diagrams," I 
the lives of young people. While Yale devotes an entire booklet to sex, Notre Dame devotes and entire two sentences on the subject. Here it is, from page 15 of DuLac, under the "Procedures" sec­tion, item three. Don't blink, you might miss it. 
"Because a genuine and complete ex­pression of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in mar­riage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in mar­riage. Violations shall involve suspen­sion or dismissal." 
That's sex in a nut shell from your friends in administration. Apparently, as far as sex goes, the administration believes ignorance is bliss. 
It really burns me to be treated as a child. We are responsible college men and women being treated like five year­olds who ask, "Where do babies come from?" If we are going to be treated as children, perhaps we should begin doing our assignments in crayon or as­king for recess. 
It seems the administration believes that pre-marital sex, abortion and homosexuality will go away if ignored. I realize Notre Dame is trying to uphold its Catholic standards, but is it right to simply ignore these issues? I admire Notre Dame for its Catholic character, but its archaic attitude towards sexual issues leaves me ashamed and dis­gusted. 
Tom Varnum is a sophomore English major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 

Write to P .O.Box Q Viewpoint Department Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Garry Trudeau 

Quote of the day 
"An atheist is a guy who watches a Notre Dame-SMU football game and doesn't care who wins." 
(1890-1969) 
General Board 
Ihe Observer 

Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Editor-in·Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219) 239-5303 Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Photography Manager .......... James Carroll The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon 
their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 
----~-­

The Observer Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 9 
Sports Briefs / · · .. 
WVFI-AM 64 will provide live coverage of tomor­row's Notre Dame-SMU game. Frank Mastro and Sean Pieri will call all the action from Notre Dame Stadium. Coverage begins at 12:30 p.m. with the pre-game show featuring "College Football Today", "The Lou Holtz Show" and "Irish Review". The game will be rebroad­cast in its entirety at 6 p.m. -The Observer 
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-SMU football game will be held tonigHt at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Coca-Cola NIT Tournament tickets for the Nov. 21 game between Notre Dame and Western Kentucky go on sale Monday at Gate 10 of the ACC. Only two tickets may be purchased with each student ID card. Tickets for both lower and upper level seating are $5 will be sold on a first-come, first-serve basis. -The Oqserver 
Interball hockey teams may sign up for ice times starting Monday after 1 p.m. A limit of one hour per week per team will apply. The fee is $50 per hour. For more information contact Tom Carroll at 239-5247. ­The Observer 
The annual Blue-Gold basketball games are on tap for Sunday night at the ACC. The women's game begins at 6:30, followed by the men's game at 7:30. 
Tickets are on sale now at the ACC for $1:00 for students. Proceeds will go to Logan Center and and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. 
The Trident Naval Society of Notre Dame has or­ganized a 24-hour run which begins at noon today and culminates with festivities prior to the Notre Dame­SMU football game. The run benefits the International Summer Special Olympics. -The Observer 

The ND-SMC ski team encourages all members who have been unable to unload their turtlenecks on their friepds to call T. J. Smith at 1022. He will be running the concession stand for the SMU game and he can unload the turtlenecks on the alumni. -The Observer 
The WVFI sports staff will have a mandatory meet­ing Monday at 10 p.m. at the sports desk. Winter sports assignments will be discussed. -The Observer 
Several hundred tickets for the Notre Dame-SMU football game are on sale now at Gate 10 of the ACC. The tickets are part of the allotment returned by SMU. 
-The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Student Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday. through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classilieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per live
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082  j  COMPUTER STORE SEEKS REU· ABLE PART-TIME HELP. NEAR CAMPUS. 277·5028. DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND, SHARE$. CALL STEVE AT 1017  NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT £2174 NEED 8 SMU TIX CALL JAY £2174  I've Invited the big guy to the LSU geme. Yep, thll'l right, God'I corning. Unfortunately I forgot to gil him tick· 111 and now I'm flclngllemll d1mn• tlon or II IHII • lot of purgatory. Pl111e Hll me your LSU tlcklll. Clll 2483 lnd IIVI my IOUI.  ROCK AND ROLLIII R.E.M FANS ROCK AND ROLLIII Time II running out. Mo1t of our tepM of very ,.,. R.E.M treckl (B-IIdft, lmportl, out-of· print llexkii1C8) h1ve already been clalmlld. You atlll have 1 chine• to hNr "Burning Down" S "White Tor­nlldo" 1nd "Tighten Up" 10 order now.  YOU'RE CORDIALLY INVITED TO AT· TEND A PRESENTATION ON CAREERS AND COMMERCIAL BANKING AND TRUST AND ANAN­CIAL SERVICES SPONSORED BY THE NORTHERN TRUST BANK OF CHICAGO ON THURSDAY, NOV. 13, FROM 7 TO 9 IN THE UPPER LOUNGE  
Wordprocelllng-Typing 272-1182?  WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY PERSONNEL $5.00 AN HOUR  I'm liking you nicely • PINII 1111 me PSU tlx (1tud. or GA)  2 SMU GA1 4 1all Cell 181111  Moat tune• atudlo quality on high quality tepM. C1ll Chin-Bro1. Inc.  OF THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED.  
GUARANTEED  YOUR  ARST  TWO  Cell Michelle B. 11 4570  Need two Penn Stele Stud Tlx a  3  II 2495 or 2550 to reNrYI your copy.  
WEEKSI  FLEXIBLE  NIGHT·TIME  GA'I. Cell Paul 277..0177.  
PAD-TYPE Ou1llty work, reuon•ble $. 277·5133 Wordproceulng Cell LIVonne 287· 11024 Went to llllen to the BEST BLUE'S  HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· TWEEN 4:30PM AND 8:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277·2151 CAMPUS REPS NEEDED-TRAVEL FREE: Po1ltlon lnvoiYM m1rketlng 1nd Mlllng qu1llty 1kl 1nd belCh trlpl  BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS need atud. or GA ttx tor SMUll Lit my backwood• buddlel ... a glmel Cell Dive II 32113 MOONSHINE to 111 who hltlpll  Need Penn Stele Tlx. Will pay big bucke. Cell Joe Iller Sp.m. 217-4581. I need PSU tlx-atud or GA call mike melll II 1111  Helld1 up menl BOO 11 on the prowl... "*KEENAN REVUE­CONCESSION STAND SMU g1m1 ·Sit. Nov.& Burger~, Brete,  Corne Hllr ThiKingernen V•n Morrllon The Who ZZTop Bruce Sprlngltlln The a..u..  
BAND In South Bind? THE BULLDOG  on campu1. E•m lrN tripe end high  ................................................................  2 SMU GA1 4 SALE Call 21195  Coke• Hot Chocollle, Cof!N. Look lor  II LM'I Rlbl  
BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND  comml11lon1. Cell John Eldredge II GrNI Dllllnlllon•, 1-800-258-9191.  BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE  IN SERIOUS NEEDIPARENTS MUST  our 1lgn In front -or Crowley, Mu1lc Hall***  Sllurday Night 1D-cl011  
II pl1ylng on WEDNESDAY 11 CHIP'S II pllylng on THURSDAY 1! LEE'S RIB'S "CIUII even Domera get the Blun aomlllmn... " EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011.  In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn State GA or Student tlcklllll C1ll Therel8 X4041111 Will pey blgl TURKEYS FLY SOUTH FOR THANKS.. GIVING BUT I NEED A RIDE Going to NASHVILLE or BIRMINGHAM call TIM  BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST ... PLEASE HELP ME... NEED 25 PSU TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 OR 1352. BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX ·CALL TJ ·283-18119  HAVE BLOCK OF 8 PENN TX OR 2 BLOCKS OF 3 PLS.CALL1272·WILL PAY Sl need ONE ticket lor PENN STATE call Chrl1 x1371 NEED 1-4 PENN STATE GA'S CALL  BEAUXARTSBALLBEAUXARTSBAL· LBEUAXARTSBALL EAUXARTSBALLBEAUXARTSBAL· LBEAUXARTSBALLB AUXARTSBALLBEAUXARTSBA~ LBEAUXARTSBALLBE  2 IDI required MIND GAMES I don't like thll word, Mlk1 B. MIND GAMES I love you, Mike B. MIND GAMES R1mmlld 11 180mph, Mike B. MIND GAMES  
LOST/FOUND I LOST "KONICA CAMERA AT 107 CAMPUS VIEW 11Y.11.1F FOUND  3306 RIDE NEEDED tor two to 1nywhere In upetete NEW YORK lor THANKSGIV· lNG (Roche111r, SyrecuH.•.... anywhere) Would like to INveTue1d1y, Nov. 25 P.M. 1nd mum  SMU a PENN ST. GA'I FOR SALE 277· 0298 CASH lor 2·3 GA or Stud Tlx tor Pen­nS! 2551  X22Be DON'T DENY IT I know you Wlnl to 1111 me your SMU GA'1, 10 give me 1 c.ll 11 2274. Whit are you Willing lor? DO IT NOWI  UXARTS They Only BALLBEA XARTSB Come Out II ALLBEAU ARTSBA Nlghtlll LLBEAUX RTSBALLBEAUXARTSBAL· LBEAUXARTSBALLBEAUXA TSBALLBEAUXARTSBAL· LBEAUXARTSBALLBEAUXAR  ATTENTION STEVE ROSAMIUA FAN CLUB: Y-thll'l rlght·lhe flnclng lagend tum• 18 todeyll Don't lorgll to atop by 204 C.noll or call 4043 to wllh ''THE MAN" 1 h1ppy blrthdlyll Love the PW "nun•"  
PLEASE CALL 284-5073. NO QUES.. TIONS ASKED. REWARDIII  Sunday Nov.30. Willing to •hare uauel. PLEASE CALL Ellen X 4418  Need 4 SMU tlx. Will pay top $ I Call £3487  •  STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE; CALL CHRIS 234·3913  SBALLBEAUXARTSBAL· LBEAUXARTSBALLBEAUXART  
LOST: 8 KEYS ON A RING THAT SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED THEMII ANNETTE 214-4372 LOST: BLACK, RAY-BAN "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES. REWARDIII LOST. FRIDAY AT THEODORES. ANNETTE 284-4372. LOST: ill of rm. 324 key1, 01 key, 1nd verlou• peraonll keyl on 1 helrt 1h1ped key chiIn with lnlll•l "0". Very lmportlntll II found, piNII c.ll Dibble X42117. LOST: ·A GOLD AND BLACK ONYX BEADED BRACELET LOST ON 1001.  Wanted: J1pen-Language Tutor. 25~ HELPI NEED RIDE '1"0 PURDUE THIS WEEKEND CALL CATHY 21114 Trevellllld poelllon lmmlldllllly avell· lble. Good commiiiiOnl, VIIUible work experience, !revel, 1nd other benelltl. Cell Bred Nel1011 (toll frll) 1-800-433-7747 tor a complete lnfor· matlon miller.  NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL JIM 289-3482 NEED PENN G.A.'S.CHRIS 1738 I NEED ANY PENN STATE TIX. CALL RICH AT 272-111123. NEED 2 SMU G.A.'S. CALL LAURIE 1254. NEED 2 PENNST STUDTIX CALL CHRIS 234-5107 I NEED 2 SMU GA'I. CAI.L 238 5370 or 214 5105. THANKS.  I NEED PSU IIU tlcklll AND YUGOS.. LAVIA etud1 a GAl DOC 283-3380 RICH DAD NEEDS 2 Penn Stell GA'1. Cell Frenk, 211-21111 F1mlly blck horne wante to ... NO bell LSU. I need ttx. Clll Mlk•2371 ................................................................ PLEASE HELPIII need PENN STATE G.A.'I or Student tlx. call IYin. 1fllr 10 pm. Th1nke Ann, 2114-5454 PERSONALS  Attention Lovere Of -DAVE McMONAGLE­Slgnupelor the Dave McMonagie F1n Club will teke piece outalde Wuhlng­ton Hill 11 10:30 Sllurdey morning. See DAVE Cloii-Up II Melli! the club teble II12:00 lor bend etep-off. ***GO DAVE GO*** We 1re looking tor 1 ride home lor Thlnkaglvlng. We 1re going to Allldo IL but will !eke 1rlde to M1C0111b,Piorll,the Qulld-CIIIN or Jollet.tl you 1re going toward Wllllm IL, give me 1 c.ll. Mlchelll-4514.  MY UNDERSTANDING FRIEND-Thll PREVIOUSLY lovealck puppy II bitter I llllng finally THANKS FOR THE FLOWERSI M-QET WELL Whit kind ot nowera do you Hke? Pink -? Thlnkl. I couldn't hiVe aurvlved llat W11k without you. NOW, 11!'1 get W-1 (lOrry, Ill 11111 too llupld tor me to .yll) P1m-Thlnketor 1n INCREDIBLE Wllkend II U of l-l've neverlllpt with 12 guya bllorll When .,. -going ag1ln? ·T STEVE AUERBACH We -knew thll ND'• library could be 10 much tun. Thlnx 1101 lor the Ice e-m lnd  
IIEWARDI CALL 214-4141. FOUND: BASEBALL GLOVE In front of Alumni Cell Miry 3711 LOST before Oct. Break: Feded LIVI' 1 JICkll. No •Ide pocket~, no l.d. s pllul retum-grellaentlmentel VIIUI. Cell Polly at 3811. LOST -811 of th-keyl Ill th-were on one am•ll ring two .,. houN key1, one • me-lock key loat In South Dining Hill, ­lldllllound, plllll call Stephen, x1981 LOST FRIDAY NITE AT THEODORE'S: LEVI DENIM JACKET WLABEL IN BACK·KD.J. BIANCHI 1007D-CALL X3125 LOST: POCKETBOOK CONTAINING COLLECTION OF BAD POETRY. LOST IN FRONT OF DEClO. I SAW SOME· BODY READING IT AS THEY WALKED OUT OF DEClO IUT I DID NOT KNOW I'D LOST IT AT THAT POINT. CALL 250 IF YOU FOUND IT. REWARD SSIS  Drummer wanted tor roc:MiluN bend c.ll Scott 11 211-3411(1v. meeg) I hiVe 1 1malllllof drum• 1nd pi-to prac­tice Two guy1 lllklng ride to Cllvellnci­Thlnkaglvlng brelk PIN11 help. call Jim 11 1418. RIDE NEEDED TO L.I.,N.Y. FOR T· GIVING CAN LEAVE TUES OR WED CALL JEN 214-4111. W1nted IChool repreaentetlvetor col­llgllte aportlng company. Grell pey, Cell collect 1-1113-34&-2001. W11tre1111, Wlllerl needed II Knol­lwood Country Club. No experience -IUry. Knollwood Country Club, 11133 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277· 1541. FOR SALE  I need 1 Penn St. IIU. tic. S$ Cell Jon £2055 NEED 5 PENN. ST GA'S BADII FRED u.ll225 need 4 SMU atud tlx-cell. 4215 or 17011 NEED PENN STATE GAl ..CALL 213­3848. I need 2 Penn ST. GA'1. Clll 1352 or 1441. Four S.M.U. G.A.'a tor 11lelll Cell Klthllln II £21124 NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S RICH 1211 ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE BLUE CAN I BUY 3 SMU GA'S FROM YOU call Pllrlck 234-28411 NEED I SMU TIX BIG S CALL 357~551  Chrllllln theology contredlcte Dlutlronorny 25; lheologlcll lnti­Simltlam v1. the doctrine of the "reaurrectlon of the dHcl" teught by JIIUI. Write: Mlchlll, P.O. Box 4475, South Bind, IN 411134-4475. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER a UQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 101 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR Sl OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 10.S:30. 233­2342. Hungry? Cell The YELLOW SUB­MARINE II 272·HIKE. Dlllvery houre: Mond1y ·Thuredey 5pm-121m; Friday 5pm-21m; Sllurdey 5pm-11m; SUnday 4pm-10pm. SYMPHONY CLUBI Fan1 of Ellulrlth Gerrl1h, Cllllat extreordln1lre, unltll II'• hlppenlng ~g~ln Sit. Nov. 11 For 1 good time, call Julie x3842 or Cindy x4501. (Eapeclllly II you hive 1 carl)  SOPHOMORES: ROLF'S POOL PARTYI COME JOIN US IN EVERY· THING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO DO IN A POOL-WED, NOV. 12 ATTENTION ALL REAL NO MENI The wom1n of your d-m• 11 hiVIng 1 Bd1yl She II I V1nna White look 1llke 1nd boy wlllehe flip your 1111er11 W11h Dl1ne I Hippy Bd1y II 284-52311 A tout to you Dl Schroeder on your 20th1Hope your d-me come true1nd your motorcycle men IWIIPI you off your llltllove you Are you running 1 oao game 111d need 1nother pllyer? II 10 call 4271 Did u party In the W1lllh Quint on Hel­I-n? Blut, huh? Well, more thin our llh-of beer 11 go~ you plckld Up I Ill of keyl £123 lnd I dlllx pl1111 return. Phone 25?5 uk lor Krl1te. O..r SPOCK .•• our lim •nd only .• . gUilt chllr .•• 11-tun ... 1 Ioiii  the convwutlon. Nut time you hive I 1111, WE kidnap YOUII Love Y1l Klthllln lnd Michelle ST ELMO'S ARE ST ELMO'S ARE CARROLL AUDITORIUM FRI!ISAT NOV lf?-?:30 lnd 10PM­SSIS111110NLY SPONSORED BY SMC STUDENT GOVTIIIIIII "THE WAY WE WERE"SUNDAY MATINEE 3PM CARROLL AUDITORIUM -11 DONA TION lor the UNITED WAY CAMPAIGN apon­IOred by SMC STUDENT GOVT -"THE WAY WE WERE" SUNDAY MATINEE 3PII CARROLL AUDITORIUM -1SSISI CARNIVAl. OF CAREERS II coming NOV.11 TUES to ANGELA II 3-IIPM -AI.L WELCOMEIIIIII SPON­SORED IV SMC CAREER COUNSEL· lNG DEPT. AND BMC ST UDENT  
FOR RENT GUIIII coming tor game need place to lley? Sllverbrook Bld-dlrNktut  FOR SALE; FANTASTIC SMU AND PENN STATE G.A'S. CALL 277-5137. '?2 Mumng Exc. lnt a Ext All new mechiiiiCIII Fllcelpte lVIII. Alldng $3000. 233-1110 Peter  NEED 2 SMU GA'B-JOHN 1722 NEEDPENNSTATETIX:STUDENTOR GA'S WILL PAYS$ CALL LOIS 284­5111  DEAD HEADS: Looking tor qui. G.D. lePN to lrlde. I've got 25 piUI Cell Jim 111143 Your Welcome St.-rely, St. Jude CMK  to our continued relltlonahlp •.. thll Bloody Mlry'e on mel HEY LALL.I-POPSI Hllllom, Old, Mike, ICily, Joey, Brllll, Bobby c• you too , Chrlll) THANKS tor coming 12 houre to ­mel LOVE, MARY ROSE  GOvr­................................................................. SMED-DOG LAIOE Your herder to get down thll1 rew  
In Nllll. CINn, quill, -10neble.l11­584-2323 IVInlnga.  GUITAR 12 STRING, 1180. 277-4482 AFTER I.  HELPI NEED 3 PENN STATE STUD TIX  CALVINaHOBBESCALVI  OUR DEAREST PATTY AND MARIA;  oyafltalll  
CALL CATHY 21114  NIHOBIESCALVINaHO  WE CANNOT HELP BUT THINK OF  
2 room lfllcJency privati entrance utllllll1 peld 211-01155 morning• ................................................................  SKIS OUN UNUSED 1115CM SIZE 13 LOOK BNDGS S220 277-4482 AFTER I  I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL FRED AT 211-2121  I I E S Calvin dllperllely needl 3 SMU GA'I. Fork them o-NOW, or 1111 Hobbll, my fwocloUI tiger, will  YOU, YOUR PLEASURE IS NOT ONE, BUT TWO. GODDESSES CAME DOWN TO EARTH THIS TIME AND GAVE ME  LIZ-DOG MARTUCCI  
, WANTED , Federl~ Still lnd Civil Service Jobl now IYIIIIble In your •-· For Into. cal(805) 544-11533 Dlpl. 13111.  r·---~~~~;~-----­1 I NEED SMU I PENN ST GAI.272-11301  THIS AD WILL NOT INSULT YOUR IN­TEWGENCE, NOR WILL IT lEG FOR 1 STU DENT TICKET FOR SMU AND 2 GA'S FOR PENN. BUT IF YOU DO HAVE THESE, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE CALLIIII THERESA214-40111.. .  come 1nd 111 you. Cell Calvin, 35113. HE WALKED 1,500 IIILESI Fr• .lick Morrll, S.J. beglne "A Cell to Pllcemlldng Wllk" with allkllllhow on The llllhllhlm PNCI Plrgrlfllllll. Sundly, Noftmber 9 II 7:00 p.m. II till Center tor Boclll Concern~  TWO ON WHICH TO WRITE THIS RHYME. ITS OFTEN HARD TO COUTN THE WAYS, WE LOVE THE BEAUTY EACH ONE OF YOU DISPLAYS. IUT GIVEN YOU TWO WE CANNOT HELP IUT STUTTER, TO NAME ALL THAT IS YOUR BEAUTY WE CANNOT UT· TEll.  Herder to get down thll1 .... oysters??? From whet w 1.-Smed go. down like 1 ~ wlndowl NICe lry'maybl next time. -Thllloya  

., 
----~-~ -~---~---~----­

·-··-~ --F-ri-d-ay---Sa_t_ur_d_a-y, November 78, 1986-p=~-l 
The Observer 

Larry Holmes declared he had had enough See story at right. when he announced his retirement yesterday. 
ND field hockey enters post-season in Midwest Regional in Kentucky 
By MARGOT MACHECA giving it our best, the record season play, the team looks to Sports Writer didn't matter." draw on its togetherness as a The senior left wing credits group to make up for the expe­
The Notre Dame field hockey· much of the team's success and rience they lack. team begins post-season play closeness to the inspiration of "We are all psyched for the today in the NCAA Midwest Head Coach Jill Lindenfeld. tournament because we are the Regional at Eastern Kentucky "Jill has always been the big underdog," notes McGlinn. after finishing with a 6-10-1 force for the team," said Following their match today, record for the year. McGlinn. "She really kept us Notre Dame will have two 
The Irish will face four oppo­going all season, even when we games on Saturday and one on nents in the weekend tourna­were down." Sunday to finish out the tourn­ment with their first match As the Irish head into post-ament. coming against the host Cardinals. As the fourth seed 
*********************************** 

of six teams, the Irish are looked upon as an underdog 
£ ATTENTION £

considering their less-than­impressive record. Joining 
Notre Dame and Eastern Ken­£ Saint Mary's Students ~ 
tucky in the regional are South­
* ~ 

ern Illinois, Southwest Mis­* ~· souri, Louisville and number 
* * 

one seed St. Louis. ~ HerffJones college ring delivery ~ 
Coming off a disappointing loss to Calvin College on Wed­*~Monday, Nov. 10, 1:30 to 3:30 * 
nesday, the Irish hope to rebound to battle their tourna­~ in the bookstore ! 
ment opponents. With the 
losses of tri-captains Corrine ~ A jeweler will bepresent to inspect ~ 
DiGiacomo and Mary Wagner, 
* d" d ,. * 

most of the leadership respon­~ tamon qua tty. . ~ sibility has fallen on the shoulders of senior captain * . * 
Meg McGlinn. *********************************** 
As one of the team's only •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
four-year members, McGlinn • • 
has been a leader who inspires 
: SENIORS ! 

the young Irish players. • • "With the injury to Corrine, • • 
: Looking for Employment? :

who had never missed a game, 
•

we all had to learn to win with­: If you're ready for -:• 
out her and her scoring abil­
: *A career Challenge : 

ity," notes McGlinn. "As a cap­
: *A Higher Income :

tain, I've had more 
responsibility in getting the :• *ABetter Position. . :• 
team together." • 
• 

Despite the losing record in • her final seasQn, McGlinn feels 
: is ready for you! :

that on the whole, the team grew through the challenges of • 
•

the year. • •
•

"It really was a great year • • 
: First Investors Corporation is holding a presentation and :

for the team as far as playing experience goes," remarked : interviews Monday, November 10, 6:00p.m. in room 222 : 
McGlinn. "We were a team of : Hayes-Healy. Call Career and Placement Services or : 
players that had never been on : Tim Branigan (N.D. '86) at 312/853-6111 for more info. : 
the field together before, but • 
we learned with each other. • • 
: ALL MAJORS WELCOME :

Even when we were losing, we 
•

held together and didn't lose • •
•

our morale. When we were ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
'. 
r 
Holmes calls it quits 
Associated Press 

PHILLIPSBURG-Larry Holmes, the former heavyweight champion, an­nounced his retirement yester­day. 
Holmes said at a news con­ference he decided about six weeks ago to end .his profes­sional career which ran for 14 
Purdue coach steps down 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE-Leon Burtnett announced his resig­nation yesterday as football coach of the Purdue Boiler­makers, effective at the end of the current season. 
Burtnett made the announce­ment in the school's football complex. Burtnett said he would remain at Purdue in­definitely, working under Ath­letic Director George King. 
years and 50 fights. He won the first 48 matches, then lost the International Boxing Federa­tion title to Michael Spinks in a bid to equal the 49-0 record of Rocky Marciano, who is the only heavyweight champion to retire unbeaten. 
In a rematch with Spinks last April 19, Holmes lost a contro­versial 15-round split decision. 

Leon Burtnett 
Purdue officials extended Burtnett's contract after the 1984 season. He has four years remaining on a five-year­contract. 

"I compared Paralegal P.ro,gramsand chose Roosevelt' 

• ~AJIA..appnwed p101n111 iD D1iDois 
• 
Effective "S'entassistance-over 500 employers hive lliiid elt graduates ­

• 
Choice of time and location-Day and evening clasr.es tn I& LOOp, ArliDgton Heights 

• 
Divenified curriculum-specialize in Litigation; Cor· porauons; Estates, Trusts and Wills; Real Estate; Employee Benefits or Generalist 

• 
ILLINOIS STATE GUARANTEED STUDENT LOANS 

• 
RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON NOVEMBER ll. 

• 
Contact your placement office for details 


U..Lanbec For JOIIf copy of tloc Lawyer'• Asaiataat Catalopc and 111 Lepl Asaistant iDvitatio• to tloc Den iafonutioa ocllioa iD JOilf area, Suta Fe Soutbcm Pacific 
writeorcaU: 
312-341-3882 


Ia .,._.tioawith Tho Natioail Ccat<r for Paralepl Troiniq 
~----------------------­~-----------------------
Ciry ---------State---Zip--
Buaineu PboDE 

Soft 
Contact Lenses $19.86 
Daily or Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to Call for an appointment today. the contact lenses you have You'll see better for less. Dr. always wanted at a price anyone Tavel's Premium Optic:1l has can afford! For a limited time been caring for eyes for over 40 Dr. David Tavel has reduced the yems with 32 loc:1tions in price of Softmate daily or . Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the extended wear contact lenses to care of your family's ~yes to an unheard of price of Indiana's largest, oldest and $19.86.* most trusted n~me i:1 eyecme? 
•Exam is requited ott tlu~ time of purchase and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orders and mav not be combined with anv other discount. 
Providers for all insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servin11 Indiana's evecare needs for over 40 years. We carry on a traditiqn of excellence that is 
,. ----J 
unsurpassed. And that's a 
SOUTH BEND • MISHAWAKA
promise from the doctor." 
Broadmoor Plaza K·M:rrt/Martin Center 
Acra.;s from Scottsdale Mall Next door to O.co Dru~
a~£­
..:.:-----291-4000 258-5000 

--------------~----~---~---------­

The Observer-November 7-8,1986 
A man behind the scenes 
ERIC M. BERGAMO features copy editor 
The only time being a graduate of Notre Dame meant something for Fred Graver was during his inter­view with David Letterman for a writer's position on "Late Night With David Letterman." 
"He asked me where I went to school and I told him Notre Dame," recalled Graver in a phone interview from his of­flee at NBC located in Rocke­feller Plaza in New York. "He was glad to hear of someone from the Midwest." 
"Dave had grown up in In­dianapolis and had spent a lousy weekend in South Bend one winter. We started talking about peeling ice off of car windshields." 
Today, Graver is a writer on the hottest late-night show on television, with two Emmy awards for writing to his cred­It. That's a long way from being a writer for The Obser­ver while an undergraduate at Notre Dame. 
Life At Notre Dame 
Starting out as a news writer for The Observer, Graver eventually moved to writing editorials and editing the opinion-editorial page of the paper. He also edited The Ob­server when it was printed during the summer. 
His columns didn't endear him to the administration of the University, Graver recalled. 
"I would cause trouble be­cause I wrote nasty columns." 
Graver also had his own "brush with greatness" while at The Observer. 
"I Interviewed Elton John for The Observer and he was In his underwear when we had it. I think It was green under­wear." 
As a senior, Graver g9t his first taste of "real" journalism when he worked at the sports desk .of The South Bend Tribune, although Graver con­fesses that he Is not a big sports fan. 
"I only went to one quarter of a football game In four years at Notre Dame, but I didn't sell my tickets," Graver Insisted. 
Graver credits Professor 
Jemlelity, who taught Satire 
and Bible as Literature, has 
having a big influence on him. 
"I think his class should be­
come overcrowded. He was a 
Life After Notre Dame 
After graduating from Notre Dame with a bachelor of arts degree In 1976, Graver found that work In journalism was sparse. This was the period after Watergate and the atten­tion brought about by Wood­ward and Bernstlen. 
Everyone and their brother wanted to be a journalist." Graver said. 
Graver ended up working as a press secretary for AI Lowenstlen In his run for Congress. Since Lowenstien had connections, Graver presumed that he would be able to get a job out of it. 
Unfortunately, Lowenstlen lost and Graver was out of a job. 
"Believe me, It never works like that." Graver warned. Working for National Lam· poon 
To pay the bills, Graver did temporary work at publishing houses and and public rela­tions firms In New York. He eventually ended up In the paperback division of Har­court. Brace and Jovanovich editing children's and humor books. Some of the people he worked with at this time were writers from National Lam­poon. In the summer of 1982, Graver joined the magazine. 
"I wanted to write funny stuffand I asked IfI could sub­mit material for the magazine. They let me and I was hired." 
For the next two years, Graver wrote and edited for National Lampoon. He also wrote a movie script that will "never see the light of day" as Graver puts it. 
He collaborated with his friend Kevin Curran on writing the script. "We wrote this script about these people who end up with Elvis' body," Graver said. 
In the summer of 1984, Graver, as was the rest of the staffofthe National Lampoon, were out ofjobs. 
Matty Simmons, Ute chief editor of The National Lam­poon, wanted to tum the mag­azine around because It was losing money. So he fired the staff and hired his sons. The reason behind that was Sim­mons wouldn't have to pay his sons much, Graver explained. 
Interviewing With Dave 
So Graver was out job hun· tlng once more, applying to "Saturday Night Live" and man." In August of 1984, Graver, along with Curran, were asked to come for a job Interview. 
The prospect ofan Interview with "the king of late night" had Graver a little nervous. 
"I was really scared about the Idea of sitting down with Dave. I was very nervous, but really excited," Graver said. 
After the show Graver and Curran met with Steve O'Donnell and Merrill Markoe, the head writers for "Late Night." 
"Dave was really busy, so we talked for about an hour when Dave came ln." 
"People told me that IfDave talks with you for more than 10 minutes, you've done great. He's actually a very shy person." 
After Graver told Letterman that he was from Notre Dame and talking about peeling Ice off ofwindshields, Graver told him about an Incident that happened during a cold win­ter In South Bend. 
"There was a student from Hawaii, a little flaky to begin with, and he had no experi­ence with cold weather. One day he started walking to classes In shorts and T -shirt. His brain couldn't handle ttie cold. He just snapped." 
Dave also talked a Jot about 
Notre Dame football, some­
thing Graver knew little about. 
But Curran tried his best to 
help Graver out. 
"Dave would say, 'They had trouble with that coach last season.' And Kevin would say, 'Yeah, Devine.' " 
first Day On The Job 
The two were Informed that 
they had been hired three 
weeks later. They showed up 
for their first day of work the 
day after the Emmy awards. 
Problem was, the staffwas still 
out In Hollywood. 
"We showed up to an empty 
office," Graver said. 
There aren't any real re­
sponsibilities on the show, 
Graver noted. 
"If there were, you'd burn 
out quickly. You work with 
others because you can't write 
comedy alone." 
"Whatever has to be done , 
you just pitch ln." he said. 
His first year on the show, 
Graver spent most of his time 
writing the opening remarks 
for Dave and working on 
remotes such as "Mr. Curious" 
and "Dave Goes To China." 

Top Ten Reason's Why Fred Graver Would Return To Notre Dame 
Compiled from the home of­flee In Milwaukee 
I.)It'd be cool to sit In back of classes, snickering "You're never going to have to know that." ' 
2.)Want to find building where they hide The Secret School of Insurance Sales­manship. 
3.)Think I can make a deal for television special where I open Adrian Dantley's old locker. 
4.)Have a little score to set­tle with Tim O'Meara. 
5. )Think I left my umbrella ·outside the bookstore. 
6.)Would like to straighten 
out those Sophomore Literary 
snobs about this "real writer'' 
garbage. 
7.)"You kids make me feel 
young again." 
8.)Want to get stuff I burled behind mirror in Breen­Phlllips before some poor wo­man finds it. 
9. )They finally cleared the asbestos out of Fisher Hall. 
lO.)Think the suspension period is up for "that incident" at Senior Club. 
York's Chinatown. 
'The Morning Show' 
Graver also had an hand In writing "The Morning Show'' as a conceit to those viewers who tape the program and watch it in the morning. The entire program was patterned after a morning show like "The Today Show," complete with Larry 'Bud' Melman In a helicopter alving the traffic report. 
Graver was nominated for an Emmy for Best Variety Pro­gram for "The Morning Show," but lost out to "The Kennedy Center Presents." Losing to that CBS special for the past three years has promted Graver to think up of some deviltry. 
"We want to do our own "Kennedy Center'' show, but we want to find a Kennedy Center that's not named after one of the Kennedys .but named after some postman. We just want to screw up the Academy." 

...------~­
Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 
WRITER 
continuedfrom page 1 
Graver Is currently In contact with a group In Texas who do radio jingles. They would do jingles that could be used during the show like "Here's David Let­terman!" and "It's Paul Schaffer!" 
There Is, however, a high rt1Jec­tlon rate for Ideas for the show, Graver said. 
"About one or two for every 10 Ideas get on the air. You just keep coming back. There's a cer­tain attitude that comes from knowing you have the show as an outlet so you can write what strikes you as funny." Is Anyone Safe from a 'Late 
Night' Joke? 

Even Notre Dame Isn't safe 
from a "Late Night" joke. 
The night Is November 7, 1985 
as Dave Is In the middle of the 
"Small Town News" segment. He 
reads an ad from the South Bend 
Tribune advertising "free dog 
dip" and remarks "And that 
comes with all the Frltos you can 
eat." 
Dave then asks Paul If he 
knows what famous university 
was In South Bend. Paul at first 
replies "Tribune University" then 
says that South Bend Is Indeed 
the home of Notre Dame. 
Dave then turns to the audi­
ence and says confidentially, 
"You know, I think we're going 
to get a new football coach next 
year." . 
As Dave would say, "It's only a joke, people." Graver doesn't remeber where thejoke about Faust came from. 
"It was just funny. When you 
write a lot of jokes, you don't 
know what hits or not. I don't 
have anything against him 
(Faust). I just thought It was fun­
ny." 
The 'Parents' Night' Show 
Graver wrote another joke at 
the expense of Notre Dame for 
the "Parents' Night" show. 
This show had all the parents 
of the staff of "Late Night" visit­
Ing the set. At one point, Dave 
walks In on all the fathers, who 
are watching a "blue" movie from 
the 1940s. Dave turns to the 
camera and says, "Well, they're 
supposed to be watching "Notre 
Dame Football Highlights." 
Graver knows where that one 
came from. 
"When I was growing up In Chicago, there were all these smokers that my Dad went to where they showed "Notre Dame Football Highlights." 
People's Reactions 
People generally have two 
reactions when they learn that 
Graver Is a writer for "Late Night." 
"Most of them say "Gee, that's 
on too late for me." 
"If they have seen the show, 
they want to ask one thing or 
another. They ask about Dave 
and Paul or about the velcro suit 
and dropping things offofa five­
story building. They have one 
things stuck In their mind that 
they're trying to figure out." 
Spontanaeity: The Spice of'Late 
Night' 

"Late Night" Is known for having the unexpected happen. This Is the show where Cyblll Shepard did an Interview In a bathtowel and Tom Selleck did his Imitation of a motorboat. 
Do the writers, or Dave for that matter, know what their guests are going to do on the show? 
"Sometimes we do. Cybll was a surprise, but we knew what Tum was doing. There's a lot of spontanaelty on the show. What they say on the airwe don't know. The spontanaelty on the show Is Dave's responsibility." 
It's A Lot Like College Writing for the show Isn't tense, Graver said. 
"It's a lot like college. Some­
times there's a lot of work to do 
and sometimes you're really 
relaxed. There's a lot. of stuff 
going on. It's not tense, but there 
Is a certain amount of pressure. -It's like writing a paper." Keeping Up With Notre Dame 
Graver does keep up with 
events here at Notre Dame and, 
after browsing through the 
alumni section of Notre Dame 
Magazine and seeing how many 
alumni sell insurance, he has 
come to a startling conclusion. 
"I think there's a Secret School 
of Insurance Salesmanship 
somewhere at Notre Dame. The 
entrance is probably hidden be­
hind the Grotto." 
"There's probably a mailbox 
there that you move back and 
forth that opens the entrance. A 
salesman from John Hancock Is 
there when you enter." 
Emmies And Other Goofiness 
Graver has made two trip to 
the Emmy Awards and ~ld that 
he experienced It on two different 
levels. 
"You pull up and its limos and 
crowds and its really goofy. 
There's Tom Selleck and Jay 
Leno and you can talk to them. 
And then there Herve Vlllechalze. 
It's all so goofy." 
But during the award cere­
mony, Graver was "terrified." 
"I wanted to win. I was chewing 
on a cigar throughout the cere­
mony. You want to win, none of 
this 'happy to be nominated' gar­
bage." 
After the awards, Graver atten­
ded a party for all the winners 
where the "goofiness" contin­
ued. 
"I was walking around with my 
Emmy and Flip Wilson came up 
and talked to me. It was all big 
stupid fun." 


SOMETHING FUNNY IS GOING ON AT NOTRE DAME 
---------Abramsand Anderson-------~ -------An Improvisational Comedy Team------­
November 8 8:30p.m. at THEODORE's 
Tickets available at the Cellar for $2.00 Sponsored by the SAB 
---~ 
Scene-Page 2 

Costume gala, not Halloween II 
LISA YOUNG features copy editor. 
Bats and cats and mafia hats. No, it's not Halloween again. If you see any of these strange creatures tonight, they're probably on their way to the biannual Beaux Arts (pronounced boz arts) Ball sponsored by the Notre Dame chapter of the American In­stitute of Architecture Stu­dents. Known for their unique themes, this year's "costume gala" motif is "They Only Come Out at Night." 
Held in the lobby of the Ar­chitecture Building. this event is also unique In that it is the only campus dance to be held in a classroom building. Doors open at 9:.30 tonight and tickets are required. The dance lasts until 2 a.m. 
Entertainment will be pro­vided by "The Urge", a band whose previous engagements include Theodore's and the Alumni-Senior Club. Music se­lections will range from rock and new music to blues and classics, with a special em­phasis on dance music. Refreshments will also be pro­vided. 
Co-chairmen Paul Milana and Suzanne Napier, both fourth-year architecture stu­dents, have been busy or­gainlzing this year's ball. 
Wine down with our 
Windjammer Specials 
FREE WINE EVERYDAY... 5 til 6:30 pm 
FREE wine ($1.75 or non­alcoholic beverage with your choice of one of 
$ 
these featured menu entrees: 
795 
• 
Teriyaki Steak • Cajun Popcorn Shrimp 

• 
Sole Almondine • Chicken Kiev 

• 
Prime Rib • Sweet 'n Sour Boneless Chicken Breast 


Served with our famous Salad Buffet and your 


Mllana says their goal is "to give people a chance to see the Architecture Building and see what arkle (slang for ar­chitecture) students are like." 
They stress that, although It is called a ball, dates are not required. Says Napier, "Tickets are sold individually and students in the past have come with a large group of friends." 
Beaux Arts Ball tradition dates back to 18th century Paris and the Ecoies de Beaux Arts. The first student­organized ball is speculated to have taken place after the completion of their first major project as a spoof of the for­mal faculty ball of the same name. 
The Beaux Arts Bails have been a tradition at Notre Dame since the mid-1920s. Past bails were black-tie for­mal affairs but have since evolved into the more creative masquerade bails. Says Milana, "The ball is the antit­hesis of formality. We came up with the theme because we'd like to get you into the spirit of things." 
Two Beaux Arts Bails are held each year. The fall dance is planned by the second and fourth-year architecture stu­dents. First and fifth-year stu­dents organize the spring ball. 


2314 So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 277-6444 
Open 8-8 Mon-Frl 8-4 Saturday 


-------~--------~~---~ 
Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 Scene-Page 3 
'Soul Man' is a fun movie if not taken seriously 
SUSAN CLEMENTS sympathy thrown In on the side but Is 
features writer accosted by prE1]udlce from the very first moment he sets foot on campus. The funniest scenes of the movie are those

For aspiring yuppie-to-be Mark Watson during which the writer pokes fun at the(C. Thomas Howell) Harvard Law School stupidity of pr~udlce. By reflecting cer­has always been the one and onlyanswer. 
tain stereotypes In exaggerated form, the

But someone forgot to tell Mark about film lets us laugh at their silliness and
the $5:3,000 question. That Is, until the director Steve Miner does a good job In
day after the letter of acceptance arrives and Mark's father (James B. Slkklng) 
pulling this out of his chararter" decides to give his son the gift of man­The movie progresses and life a
as hood by allowing him to foot his own bill black gets more and more complicated. to Harvard. Needless to say, a gift like During the first half of the movie, Mark this Is a tad depressing for Mark. He'd comes off as just another common jerk. been hoping for a Ferrari and $5:3,000 The viewer, while laughing at his exploits, Isn't exactly the kind of money you earn Is turned off by his shallowness. But all flipping hamburgers over the summer. ofa sudden, his character takes a serious turn and there Is something about the transition that doesn't seem quite right.
Movie review~''' 
Logically, It all makes sense, for In be­Soul Man · ~·t coming part of a repressed world he so little understood before Mark has had to Mark(C. Thomas Howell) and Gordon(Ayre Gross) scour the catalogs for
**j I
(out of lour) 

mature out of his belief that every aspect a scholarship for Mark In the new movie "Soul Man." This frightening dilemma Is the stuff of of life Is a joke. But there Is a lack of Leonard as Sarah's young son enhances America, and Is a good movie to see If which movies are made and forms the sincerity In the acting. some emptiness It with a disarming sweetness and charm. you are looking for a few laughs or need basis for "Soul Man," a recently released In the eye or a misdirected gesture, and From the stern figure of Mark's law class a little warmth to get you through an en­comedy from the studios of New World Howell has a.hard time tying the two dif­teacher (James Earl Jones) the director tire weekend of South Bend weather. Pictures. ferent Marks Into one more belleveable molds a steady anchor for the movie. In But don't approach the theater expect­character. his almost comical seriousness and his Ing perfection, for the movie's editing Is 
For awhile, life looks pretty sad and the This problem does not occur In the refusal to draw a line between black and not as meticulous as It should be. From plot thickens as Mark finds himself un­portrayals of Mark's friend Gordon (Ayre white, Jones above all others binds to­time to time, the fllm skips a bit and I qualified for virtually every scholarship Gross) and Sarah (Rae Dawn Chong), the gether Its conflicting elements. couldn't figure out the significance of the 
on the lists. He's too rich for most ofthem black divorced mother In Mark's law class There are, however, enough Inconsis­strange bird that kept reappearing In the and either the wrong sex or the wrong with whom he becomes Involved. Arye's tencies In the movie to make this an sky until somebody told me that It was race for the others. Now, men and women sense of timing and mastery of eye lan­Impossible job. Because It does not be­the sound boom coming downjusta little 
have changed places before, take guage sharpen the writer carol Black's come serious until It Is half over, much too far. "Tootsle," for example, but what about wit, while Chong has an almost fierce sin­of what the writer has to say about As It stands, "Soul Man" Is best labelled race? An original twist, eh? cerity that evokes complete faith In the stereotypes and repression comes veiled as a fun movie. cautious viewers, 
way she Is shaping her character. In a cloud of humor. "There Is no black however, should restrain themselves 
And thus It Is that with an extra strength Amid these surprisingly good perfor­or white," the movie states, "only shades from thinking too much and accept the dosage of tanning pills and a new perm, mances an array of minor characters of gray," but It has a hard time resolving movie's conclusion for the truth It Mark crosses In his usual thoughtless, dances In and out of the movie. For the the contrasting colors Into one. espouses without trying to figure out how 
carefree way Into the world of black most part, these roles add nothing but a This Is not to say that the final effect It got there. America. Mark arrives In cambridge ex­flat humor and an Irritating suspense to Is never achieved. "Soul Man" makes "Soul Man" Is now playing at The pecting only equality with a little extra the comedy. But Jonathon "Fudge" some serious comments about racism In fourm Cinema. 


,------NSBE ------, 
'Friend'

I Minorit~ Students: Ifyou I scary t submitted a resume for the 
I 
PAUL PILGER features writer 

I NSBE Resume Book, come by t 
Is It possible to make a
t 262 Zahm between 7-10 pm t 
horroli'Scare-me-out-of-my-wits movie In the 80's and avoid the
t Friday to review resume printing t 
traditional slash and spill tactics 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
that have been built Into this 
,--·-~-11!!!!!!1""'--------------...-----------------------.· genre? Well, Wes Craven comes very close In his latest nightmare "Deadly Friend." Although It
Here For The Game • • • 

Movie review~~ 
D-eily Friend ~·t
*** (outollour) 
I
The Weekend ... 

does have two fairly gruesome murder scenes, "Deadly Friend" 
The Day? 

avoids a lot of gut spilling and 
concentrates on just plain 
scaring the audience silly. 
The story centers around Paul Conway(Matthew Laborteaux), a boy genius who moves to a small town In order to do brain re­search at a local college. Paul 
Running Short of Cash? 
Ifyou have a ORRUS-linked bank card, you don't have a problem! 1st Source Bank 

falls for his new next door neigh­
says, ''Welcome,'' and invites you to any of our 17 conveniently located Resource 

bor Samantha, played by Krlsty Swanson ("ferris Beuller's Day Off'). After Sam's accidental 
Centers, where you can get the cash you need! Three are located within a mile and a 
half of the Notre Dame Campus: 

death, Paul tries to bring her 
back to life. This contemporarily 
original story allows the plot to
1. Roseland-52990 u.s. 31 N. at Cleveland 

unfold slowly and peaks the In­
2. St. Mary's College-Haggar College Center 

terest of the audience. for the 
first hour ofthe film the audience wonders how Craven Is going to unleash terror upon these · 
3. Maple Lane-2230 So. Bend Ave. at Ironwood 
Resource and CIRRUS ... 

seemingly undeserving people. 
rra long on convenience when you're short on cash! ~.source 
Wes Craven, who gave us "Last 
CIRRUS -.Bank 
-F.D.I.C. 
see FRIEND, page 7 

-----~--~------r----------~ 
Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 Scene-Page 4 
Remnants of a prosperous 
r 
r 
r 
~ ~ 
~­
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
,r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r r 
,;dl'k " 
if 
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
~ 

A five-minute drive the past of an industria old factory stands with lean against its walls weeds run two sets of 
of the street ..............., sight, along with other tells a passionate story. 
death. 
Fiftyyears ago South were Oliver Farm ery. Studebaker empl all three of the city's replaced now by the All Inc. 





On The Inside 
20th Anniversary Special Section 
serving the notr~ dame -st. mary's community

NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOVEMBER 3, 1986 
The Observer today has a distinct vision 
Times were different at the founding 
Every newspaper has a philosophy upon which it stands. Some are founded for fun, some for truth, some for a cause and some for other reasons. Each news­paper's philosophy manifests itself through the words it prints on the pages it produces. 
Joe Murphy 
now... 

College newspapers are constantly changing, not only from year to year, but day to day. What we were yesterday we are not today, and what we are today we will not be tomorrow. 
Rarely does a newspaper directly ex­plain its philosophy. The readers gen­erally are left to read between the lines and deduce the premises upon which the newspaper operates. 
If, today, we can articulate our vision of what we try to be and what we try to do, then you, our readers, may better know who we are and for what we stand. 
listen 

Too many journalists don't listen. As a result, they place themselves above the people they cover and, worse, above their readers. Our door is always open. We'll listen to anybody. 
The Observer's proper place is within the community, not above it. everyone deserves a chance 
From listening comes understand­ing. Everyone, especially newsmakers, deserves a chance to be heard, a chance to explain, to prove themselves, to in­quire, to vindicate, to judge for them­selves and to be given the benefit of the doubt unless history and truth prove them otherwise. 
The press too often tries to act as judge, jury and executioner. special interests 
The only interests a newspaper should serve are the people's. One of the easiest things for a college newspa­per to become is a captive of special interests. People are always asking us 
produces: 
12,500 papers daily 
yearly 
building character 

Sometimes it is hard to report the facts because the facts are not clear. But even when the facts are clear, col­lege journalists are so new to the profession that some newsmakers at­tempt to manipulate them. 
The challenge of finding and standing by the truth is a difficult process for the young reporter, but it builds char­acter. 
for favors. Print this; print that. Vio­late this policy or that. 
To prevent a loss of objective, all of our policies are public and, in the end, our product speaks for itself. 
Sometimes it is easy to see the dis­tinction between what is good jour­nalism and what is good for special in­terests. Sometimes it is not. 
We don't do favors, although people sometimes think we do. Telling friends and foes "no" is one of the least pleas­ing, but most necessary, parts of our job. 

In a free country, people can say what they want. And they usually do. The college journalist will always face pres­sure and challenges to compromise his objectivity. If a reporter is fair, then he has nothing to fear. 
doing what's right over what's popular 
There are decisions we make which are not necessarily popular. Many times we know what the consequences are going to be if we do or don't do something. This is especially true if one is changing the status quo or taking something away from someone. Some­times a little courage is required. 
stay out of the story 

A good reporter should tell the story, not participate in it. He must know his place and put the story before his ego. 
anyone can tear something down 
We're always leery of the person who is on the attack. Sometimes it is with good reason. Sometimes it is not. Anytime someone puts his emotions before reason, we are especially skepti­cal. They may even be right, but if they are not reasonable they will be ignored by the press and by its readers. 
coincidence does riot inean-collusion 
If we do what we think is right and base it on reasonable and objective criteria, then we shouldn't worry when coincidence implies collusion to some people. 
Coincidences do happen. Honest mis­takes do occur. Readers are the best judges of whether something is ac­cidental or deliberate. 
appearance versus reality 
Each day, a potential conflict of in­terest arises. We tell the staff to remove themselves from the story if they do not feel that they can be objective. If they tell us they can be objective, then the story is theirs. We trust people to do what is right. It all comes down to one's view of human nature. 
This does not mean we blindly take people at their word. Often though, the truth is obscured by appearance. What it means is we give people the benefit 
see NOW, page 4 

All newspapers have stories behind them, and for what I presume are reasons of nostalgia and 20th anniver­sary folderol, I have been asked to tell you the tale of this one. • 
Robert Sam Anson ..•and then 
It begins as most good yarns do, posi­tively eons ago, way back in what is now called "the era of Ara." Lyndon Johnson was president, there were no women on campus, and, like a lot of 
·my classmates, I, a senior English major and sometime Scholastic con­tributor was devoting considerable in­tellectual effort to devising ways of avoiding the draft. Those speculations were interrupted late one night in Oc­tober, 1966 by a fateful knock on my dorm room door. I opened it to find a mournful looking delegation of half-a­dozen or so, led by Steve Feldhaus, a business major, who was then playing a leading role in publishing the Voice, a student government-backed weekly newspaper. 
The Voice, I must tell you, was not a good paper; in fact, it was a terrible paper. That, however, was not its prob­lem. Its problem, and what had brought Feldhaus and his cohorts to my door, was that it was broke. Student govern­ment had offered to ante up more funds, but with one major proviso: that The Voice be interred, and a new paper, with a new staff and editor, be put in its place. That, according to Feldhaus, is where I came in. He wanted me to run it, at least sort of. After ten seconds or so of reflection and of striking a deal (Steve would control the money, I, the editorial product, and we would share the title of editor-in-chief), I accepted. 
By the next morning, we had put to­gether the beginnings of a staff, and moved into a small room in the upper reaches of LaFortune. After decorating the premises with suitably 60s-style wall posters, we christening our as yet unpublished effort The Observer, not so much because we liked the name -most of us didn't -as for the fact that The National Observer had a swell looking and easily ripped off logo. 
We then got down to work -and back­breaking work it turned out to be. Few of us had time for sleep, much less class, but thanks to the efforts of people like Bill Giles, Pat Collins, Mike Smith and a host of others, somehow the first issue got published. When it appeared November 3, 1966, the general reaction was shock. Here was a newspaper that was fact-filled, slick-looking, and, rarest of all for Notre Dame, positively bristling with opinion. 
It was that opinion (along with a ter­rific sports section) that made the weekly Observer must reading. We were cheerfully biased about every­thing, be it the lowliness of Michigan State (an institution we deemed fit only for cows), the lunacy of the Vietnam War or the deplorable lack of drugs, booze, and sex on campus. In our edi­torial columns (and sometimes the news), we crusaded for larger student voice in the running of the university, for a break-up of the "old boy" network that dominated student government, for, well, a whole lot of things, some of which now seem rather silly. Silly or not, though, The Observer was pas­sionate. It never just lay there. Week after week, it demanded that you read 
it. 
Along the way, we also managed to print some news. One front page story that caused something of a stir was a report, lifted from Ramparts, that 

Notre Dame-sainted Tom Dooley was, 
among many other things, a CIA agent. 
Another story that caused even greater 
commotion was our scoop on the selec­
tion of General William Westmoreland 
as winner of Notre Dame's "Patriot of 
the Year" award. That revelation, and 
an accompanying editorial lambasting 
the award, traditionally bestowed on 
the country's leading war criminals, 
brought an end to the University's an­
nual patriot-picking. 

To be sure, not all of our endeavors 
were so noble. There was, for instance, 
the weekly "Observed" feature, which 
pictured in chaste pin-up style a Saint 
Mary's girl one or the other of the 
editors was interested in dating. Gross 
sexism it was, but, as one of those 
editors, I can report that the tactic 
worked. 

The year's biggest controversy, 
though, stemmed from a decision made late one beer-sodden night, to fill a three inch "hole" in the paper with a filler item taken from the pages of the radical Berkeley Barb. This particular item told of the formation of the East Bay Sexual Freedom League, and des­cribed, fairly graphically by Notre Dame standards, the events that oc­cured there. In the course of the ac­count, one participant described his ·pleasure in observing people copulate -except that he didn't say copulate. In­stead, he used a five-letter synonym which, in a different context, is avail­
able at your local hardware store. 

The administration was not amused. Hardly had the paper apeared, then we were informed that unless we wrote a personal letter of apology to each and every member of the Notre Dame com­munity, two things would happen: one, The Observer would be closed forthwith, and two, those r_esponsible for printing the offending item (namely, yours truly) would be ex­pelled from school. With the war going on, it was the rough equivalent of a death sentence. 
I had my own ideas on how to respond, but, fortunately, cooler heads prevailed. We wrote our letter of apol­ogy (and a most snottily artful one it was), and the crisis passed. We had learned, though, an important lesson: when upholding the sanctity of the first amendment, try to find firmer ground than recounting the sexual derring-do of West Coast lotharios. 
Since that time, a lot of things have happened. For one, my colleagues on The Observer and I have gone ori to other things, a few to journalism, others to business and the law, and one, I am told, to Northern Ireland, where, apparently believing what he wrote, he has become a gunman for the IRA. An­other thing that has changed, of course, is the times. The 60's, and the hot­blooded journalism it produced, are a dim memory now, and, looking back, perhaps that's just as well. There's a lot to be said for calm and peace, and, as is my business now, getting the facts straight. 
One thing that has not changed is The Observer. To my astonishment, and that of my ragtag collection of friends who were there those 20 years ago, it has continued, and, in continuing, be­come a far better and more profes­sional paper than anything we could have dreamed of. On this, your two de­cade anniversary, I salute you. As your institutional old man, I also tell you this: the good times weren't then. The good times are now. 
Robert Sam Anson was the founder of The Observer and is now a free lance writer and author in New York. 


Anniversary Section 



server o 


According to then Board of Trustees 
Chairman Edmund Stephan, the decision to retain Hesburgh came from an ad hoc
Twenty years of news Twenty yea 
trustees' committee after it had received r recommendations from numberous 
r 
r Such a group "will be given 15 minutes of meditation to cease and desist. . .. If
r 

r they do not within that time period cease and desist, they will be asked for their identity cards. Those who produce these 
r 1966 will be suspended from this community After three and one-half years of as not understanding what this commu­publication as a newsweekly, The Voice nity is. closed its doors on Oct. 27, 1966. "Those who do not have or will not 
Explaining that The Voice would be produce identity cards will be assumed good, or there would be no Voice at all, not to be members or the community and Editor-in-chief Stephen Feldhaus cited a will be charged with trespassing and dis­lack of funds, newsmen and journalistic turbing the peace on private property and training as the reasons for the paper's treated accordingly by law," Hesburgh demise. wrote. 
One week after The Voice shut down, Added Hesburgh: "Without being a campus newspaper created to "ob­melodramatic, if this conviction makes serve, remark, notice, comment and ad­this my last will and testament to Notre here" at Notre Dame. Dame, so be it." 
The first issue of The Observer featured The letter came in response to student an article by Ara Parseghian concerning protests of American involvement in Viet­the birth of a newspaper, along with a nam. series of photographs describing the Ob­server staff's ingredients for an ideal of­fice situation. Robert Anson and Stephen Feldhaus co-edited the paper. 
1970 
On May 4, 1970, Notre Dame Student

1967 
Body President Dave Krashna rallied 1,000 students and called for a general 

On Nov. 8, 1967, University President strike on classes in protest of the Vietnam Father Theodore Hesburgh said that no War, sexism, racism and militarism. parietal hours will be granted at Notre The same day Krashna spoke, Res­Dame. burgh condemned U.S. involvement in 
"I have no stomach for laws which Cambodia and sent a statement to Pres­don't mean anything," he said. "And the ident Richard Nixon, calling for the laws and rules which we have should be withdrawal of military forces from Sout­enforced," Hesburgh said. heast Asia and the return of American 
"I am aware of the position of the Board prisoners of war. of Trustees on the matter of parietal The next day, Father John Walsh, vice hours and I'm sure that parietal hours president of academic affairs, released a will not be allowed." letter to all teaching and research faculty 
The University's reason for not allow­that called for the suspension of one day's ing women in the dormitory stemmed classes. Students, however, continued mostly from the social repercussions of their strike for several weeks. entertaining a woman in a bedroom and the disruption such a practice would in­itiate in a mens' dorm which was inter­preted by many University officials as a men's club, The Observer reported. 
Visitation hours would be instituted and then expanded in the next couple of years. 
1971 
On Nov. 31, 1971, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's officially announced that "it is not possible to accomplish complete uni­fication at this time," thereby scrapping the plans for the merger of the two 
schools. Included in the joint statement was the 

Notre Dame transferred its governance announcement that Notre Dame would from the Congregation of Holy Cross to begin admitting female undergraduate a mostly lay Board of Governance in 1967. students for the 1972-1973 school year. 
On Jan. 18, University President Father "For the time being we are going our Theodore Hesburgh sent a letter to all separate ways, going many ways to­members of the Notre Dame community gether, and hoping to deepen this unifica­regarding the administrative restructur­tion, which I seriously believe will some­ing. The change meant the Congregation day come to pass," said University of Holy Cross divested itself of sole con­President Father Theodore Hesburgh. trol and ownership of the University. Saint Mary's students protest the deci­

sion not to merge by threatening to withdraw, withhold tuition and boycott
1 9 6 9 classes 
1967 
In an eight-page letter dated Feb. 17, 1969, University President Father 
1982

Theodore Hesburgh specifically ex­plained what steps would be taken Father Theodore Hesburgh in October, against "anyone or any group that sub­1982, accepted an offer from the Board of stitutes force for rational persuasion, be Trustees to remain in the position of Uni­in violent or non-violent." versity president for another five years. 
sources. 

"The decision resulted mainly from the 
trustees' conviction that we have at this 
University great leadership and have had 
for 30 years," Stephan said. 

Hesburgh said he was not 'jumping for joy' over the trustees decision. "I had pretty much psychologically prepared myself to be chancellor and someone else president," he said. 
On Oct. 27, Hesburgh announced four administrative appointments: Father Edward Malloy as associate provost; Fa­ther David Tyson as executive assistant to Hesburgh; Father William Beauc­hamp as administrative assistant to Fa­ther Edmund Joyce; and Father Ernest Bartell as executive director of the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies at Notre Dame. 
1982 
After more than two years of effort, the 
long-awaited PACE report was released· 
by University Provost Timothy O'Meara 
on Dec. 1, 1982. 

The report was later approved by Res­
burgh and the Board of Trustees. 

The PACE (Priorities and Commit­
ments for Excellence) report was the cul­
mination of the attempt by O'Meara and 
his advisory committee to analyze and 
assess the major problems confronting 
the University in the next 10 years. 

Areas analyzed in the report included 
teaching and research, the faculty, the 
student body and support functions within 
the University. 

1984 
Notre Dame's new alcohol policy, released April16, 1984, eliminated parties and happy hours in dorm rooms and prohibited underage students from at­tending parties in hall social spaces where alcohol is served. 
''Student cooperation is essential in this policy," said Father William Beauc­hamp, chairman of the Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol. 
This alcohol policy was not unprece­dented. however. On Aug. 26, 1974, then Dean of Students John Macheca ruled that students under 21 years of age were not allowed to consume alcoholic beverages on campus. This directive was a reversal of the previous drinking and party guidelines which allowed underage drink­ing in moderation. 
1985 
Saying his decision was "not arrived at easily," Saint Mary's President John Duggan-announced his resignation on Feb. 22, 1985, after 10 years at the College. 
Duggan said he was ready for new di­rections, and believed the College was ready for new leadership. 
William Hickey, former vice president and dean of faculty at Saint Mary's, was named to replace Duggan on Feb. 31, 1986. He had been serving as acting pres­ident since Duggan's resignation in 1985. 
1966 
The Observer's first year witnessed the winning of Notre Dame's fifth National Championship as awarded by the Associ­ated Press. The Irish, coached by Ara Parseghian, were 9-0-1 in 1966, rolling over opponent after opponent. 
This was the year of the Baby Bombers, as sophomores Terry Hanratty and Jim Seymour provided an outstanding pass­ing combination. Their passing .was complemented by the running of Nick Eddy and Larry Conjar, while the defense was led by Alan Page and Jim Lynch. 
The 1966 season was also the year of the now famous 10-10 tie with Michigan State. Ara decided to play conservatively and not risk losing a game his injury­beset squad had fought so hard to tie. A week after, the Irish rolled by Southern Cal, 51-0, and the title was theirs. 
1971 \ 
In 1971, a 29-year old man named Rich­ard 'Digger' Phelps was named Notre Dame's head basketball coach, replacing John Dee. Just six years earlier, Phelps, then a high school coach had written a letter to Ara Parseghian in which Phelps said, "My big dream is to coach at Notre Dame. I love the essence of Notre Dame." Now, he had his chance. 
Phelps came to Notre Dame after leading Fordham to a 26-3 record and third place in the NCAA East Regional. In his first season as coach of the Irish, Phelps struggled to a 6-20 mark, but bet­ter times were on the horizon. 
1973 
In 1973, Ara did it again, winning his 
second AP National Championship. The 
Irish were 10-0 in 1973. The Irish were a 
juggernaut, outscoring their opponents 
358-66 in the regular season. 
The offense was directed by quarter­
back Tom Clements who had a reliable 
target in all-America tight end Dave 
Casper. On defense, Mike Townshend had 
an all-America season in the secondary. 
The big game of the 1973 season came in the Sugar Bowl, when Notre Dame hooked up with Alabama in a battle of unbeatens. In a see-saw struggle, Notre Dame came out on top, 24-23, on Bob Thomas' 19-yard field goal with 4:26left in the game that redeemed him for two earlier misses. 
1974 
The year 1974 got off to a bang, a big one. On Jan. 19, the Notre Dame basket­ball team did what no other team had done for 88 games -beat UCLA. The win, arguably the biggest in Notre Dame's his­tory, knocked the Bruins out of the No.1 
Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 2-3 


• 

1 of sports 
~on in the polls for the first time since 
I 
~ got off to strong start and led Iwith 3:22 left in the game. Then the ~ut crowd at the ACC witnessed one egreat comebacks in college basket­
history, as the Irish scored 12 un­rered points to take the victory. &ht Clay's fallaway jumper with 29 tis left sealed it. t was a great win," said Irish head h Digger Phelps afterward. "And it especially so for Notre Dame -for yone involved from the coaches, l, school, alumni and everyone else." 
1975 
1d then he had had enough. After 11 Ions as head coach, Ara Parseghian gned, citing concern for his health family considerations. The pressure 'otre Dame had taken its toll. lrseghian won 95 games at Notre 1e, losing 17 and tying four. Addition­' he won three National Champion­s. 
1975, Dan Devine was named the 23rd :h of the Irish after four years as :h and general manager of the Green 
Packers. He had previously coached !issouri and Arizona State. 
1977 
an Devine had some difficult shoes to but in 1977, the Irish head coach put re Dame on top of the college football ld once again. otre Dame started slowly, dropping a J decision against Mississippi in the tnd game of the season, before mnding to take 10 in a row and the 1>nal championship in all polls. Devine the Irish racked up blow-out victories 'Air Force (49-0) and Miami (48-10)elast two regular-season games, ear-
the right to face the undefeated is Longhorns and Heisman Trophy ter Earl Campbell in the Cotton Bowl. 1tre Dame was nothing short of over­ering in the clincher, holding 1pbell to 116 difficult yards and forc­lix turnovers. Backs Jerome Heavens Vagas Ferguson, meanwhile, picked )2 and 100 yards, respectively, to lead :rish to a 38-10 triumph. 
1978 
tre Dame has appeared in the NCAA etball tournament 19 times, but 1978 :»y far the most successful showing, tigger Phelps' squad reached the l Four. ~ Irish started off the tournament the most lopsided victory of the 16 round games, a 100-77 blowout of ton behind a 20-point game from cen­Ul Laimbeer. Kelly Tripucka led the tn the next two contests, scoring 20 18 points, respectively, as Notre e ousted Utah, 69-56, and DePaul, 
to reach the Final Four in the St. . 1Checkerdome. 
But that's where the dream season ended for the Blue and Gold, as a late comeback threat was not enough to avoid a 90-86 loss at the hands of the Duke Blue Devils. Duck Williams was the high scorer for the Irish with 16 points. Arkansas then topped Notre Dame by a 71-69 count in the game for third place, giving the Irish a final record of 23-8. 
1980 
The day was Nov. 24, 1980, and op­
timism was the tone around the Notre 
Dame campus, as Gerry Faust left Cin­
cinnati's Moeller High School to take over 
for Dan Devine as head coach of the Irish 
football team. 
Devine had compiled a 53-16-1 record 
at Notre Dame, leading the team to the 
1976 Gator Bowl and the 1977 and 1978 
Cotton Bowls. He also brought back the 
last national championship by a Notre 
Dame squad, posting a 10-1 record in 1977 
to take the honor unanimously. 
Faust, on the other hand, would never 
quite live up to the expectations placed 
on him when he took over in 1980. The 
three-time letterwinner as quarterback 
at the University of Dayton was the 24th 
head coach at Notre Dame. 
1981 
On Jan. 5, 1981, Gene Corrigan took over 
as Notre Dame Athletic Director, replac­
ing Edward W. "Moose" Krause at the 
position. 
In his first year in office, Corrigan wel­
comed two new varsity sports to the pro­
gram -men1s lacrosse and women's 
swimming. His office has taken on 
responsibility for administration of the 
Athletic and Convocation Center and the 
university's physical education depart­
ment. 
On a national level, Corrigan helps 
shape intercollegiate policy as the Divi­
sion 1-A representative on the powerful 
NCAA council. In addition, he has been 
intimately involved in recent years in 
football television negotiations involving 
the NCAA, College Football Association, 
their member schools and the networks. 
1985 
Gerry Faust, on Nov. 27, 1985, told 
reporters, "I think it's for the best -for 
me and Notre Dame," as he announced 
his resignation as Irish head football 
coach. 
Faust never quite lived up to his expec­
tations at the Notre Dame helm, posting 
a 30-26-1 record, including a 1983 Liberty 
Bowl victory and a 1984 Aloha Bowl ap­
pearance, before stepping down and ac­
cepting the head coaching job at the Uni­
versity of Akron. 
Five days later, on Dec. 2, Lou Holtz 
announced his acceptance of the coaching 
job at Notre Dame, leaving the Univer­
sity of Minnesota, where he had an escape 
clause in his contract. 
Holtz brought a 110-60-5 career record 
to Notre Dame, after spending three 
years at William and Mary, four years 
at North Carolina State, seven seasons at 
Arkansas and two with the Golden Gop­
hers. 

Student newspaper serves as a reflection 
To be a university is to have a stu­sons, without whatever later profes­dent newspaper. It is that simple~ sional advantages a handful of 
Certainly, my viewpoint is biased. student journalists acquire while I am a newspaperman. I am prob­practicing their craft on fellow stu­ably that before I am anything else. dents. What a university can't Oh yes, I am a husband and a father flourish without is a pulse, a monitor, and a son and a brother and a Chris­a voice or observer of itself. The tian and all those other things that most successful people in life are you are supposed to say first in defin­usually the most introspective. Same ing yourself. But I repeat, I am a with the most successful organiza­newspaperman. tions businesses. Those who fre­
quently look at themselves tend to Bill Dwyre find things that can be changed for the better. Is a university any different? Of course not. Is the perceived published juvenile 
Other occupations are just that. wanderings of a less-than-polished­Occupations. Things to do between but-eager-to-take-a-stab-at-his­the hours of 9 and 5; things that pay thoughts student editorial writer for vacations and college educations good or bad for Notre Dame? No 
• and everything else in between. question. It is beyond good to neces­Newspapering pays for those things, sary. The learning experience at a but it can't be defined in such simple universty resolves around the stu­terminology. The word occupation dents' freedom and desire to try out doesn't quite make it. It is more like feelings and sentiments on other stu­a cross between a religion and a dis­dents. If that student happens to be ease. You do it fervently for all the doing so in a dormitory conversa­better hours of your life and you hate tion, fine. If he happens to be doing the forces that make it so difficult. so on the editorial page of the student Its peaks and valleys are Tibet and paper, or in a Sports column, even the Florida Everglades. better, because his audience is I missed the birth of my only son larger. because it occurred on deadline. I regret that, but I can deal with it. 
I missed 37,000 cocktail parties, ''What a university neighborhood barbecues and family 
can't flourish with­
picnics because they occurred when 

the news was occurring. I regret out is a pulse, a mon­
that, but I can deal with it. 

I have never seen a perfect news­itor, a voice or ob­paper section put together, but I've 
server of itself. . .
seen some and contributed to some that have come pretty close. Had I 

Those who look at
not been in the middle of those near­

perfect sections, I would regret it. themselves tend to 
And I probably wouldn't be able to 

deal with it. find things that can All this in way of getting to the 
be changed for the
topic at hand. Student newspaper. 

In my days at Notre Dame, there better.'' was The Scholastic and nothing else. If you wanted to know what hap­pened in the world yesterday, you went and bought the South Bend A student newspaper can go Tribune, because The Scholastic, beyond being a pulse and a monitor. with its flashy writers and glossy It can also be an image builder. The paper, wouldn't be around for weeks. written word can be so powerful. Notre Dame was a great vacuum for Take cities that have major metro local news, campus doings. It wasn't newspapers with reputations of news until it was printed in The being influential, powerful, and Scholastic,. so sometimes, it wasn't unique. And then take the reactions news until weeks later. of the populace in these cities to that 
Along about 1964 -and for reasons paper. much more centered around a desire To read the New York Times is to for some campus recognition and give yourself a certain stamp. In Los some kind of job-related experience Angeles, where I work, it is fas­over and above the daily beatings hionable to read the L.A. Times, be­we were getting in class from Tom cause it is a quality publication. At Stritch --a few of us started putting Indiana University where the stu­out a newspaper. It was a couple of dents print one of the top dailies in times a week at first, and if memory America, the students are proud of serves, it didn't even survive for the IDS (Indiana Daily Student). long, ending up merely a false-start And so that kind of pride feeds inspiration for another group of back, like a boomerang. The stu­Notre Dame students to start up an­dents who put out the paper want it other paper a few years later. That to be good so that the students who one stuck, giving Notre Dame the read it will be proud of it and cite it paper it has today. as a positive of their daily student 
Whatever our paper was back in life. '64, it was lacking in quality. I re­Strong student papers attack is­member a number of us comment­sues that need attacking, express ing, after watching the first batches emotions that need to be expressed, come off the presses, that our high cover games that need to be covered school papers had been much better. and add perspective to student life But even back then, we knew that, that, above all else in these forma­while we hadn't done it well, we had tive years, needs it. done it. And that value remains A good student newspaper reflects today for those who put the current a good student body. And vice versa. student newspaper today, clearly a People who fund student newspapers vastly improved product from the should resist balking at its costs. It mid-1960s. is too important. Cut funding for new 
The lessons learned back then, and football uniforms first. the lessons learned today by those putting out your student paper, are Bill Dwyre was a founder of The invaluable. But a university can ex­Voice and is currently the sports editor ist and flourish without those les-of the Los Angeles Times. 
-
-

Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 4
Anniversary Section 
Many years of obs~rving 
Was it '70,'69, or '71 that I started? Will it be 2,000, or the year before, or the year after, when I turn in my final column? Will they give me an engraved Mickey Mouse watch for faithful ser­vice? If all the Pall Malls that I chain­smoked while writing were laid end to end. the thin white line would circle the 
Fr. Robert Griffin 
moon. For the sake of The Observer, I will die of emphysema; but that's okay; it's been a privilege to be allowed to write. Maybe my name will be scratched into a pillar of N.D.'s Stonehenge as an unsung hero, some­where near the base, where my dog can sniff it. He'll get emphysema, too, for

-
being with me in that smoke-filled room where I write. 
My first time in the Observer office, I asked for a pencil. I remember being told that somebody was using the pen­cil, which is the same crack Dorothy Parker made about the office of The New Yorker. I could tell you a hundred funny stories, which wouldn't entertain you, unless you had been there: the time, for example, that Rick, who used to type deliberate errors into the copy to amuse the proofreader, slipped in a phony notice of a raffle that some Saint Mary's women were sponsoring, to raise money for contraceptives. The proofreader was inattentive, and pos­sibly blind; so many articles in those early days turned out as scrambled as alphabet soup. The line got printed; and Rick was red-faced for a week from apologizing. You really had to be there, as I said, to get the flavor of the outrage from across the road. 
The Observer preserved so much of the anguish of Vietnam. No other war that the Irish attended has the same kind of documentation to tell you how Notre Dame students viewed that con­troversial time. Much of what students knew about Watergate, Kent State, and the Third World came from The Obser­ver, since it was the only paper they saw. It was fashionable to call The Ob­server a piece of trash; but as a contact with the real world, it kept the attention of the campus. 
Sometime, campus news is sad or shocking. Before coeducation, a series of articles appeared, bewailing the plight of males isolated in their chauvinist ghetto. The fifth and last ar­ticle gave an account of students lined up outside a dorm door, awaiting their turns with a South Bend hooker who took money for her favors. The story may have had a great deal more to it than a grain of truth. The memory of it lingers as the most urgent note in a cry for help from students who felt stifled by the status quo. So much in The Observer belongs to the literature of pleading, as though Catholicism were the oppressive system the dropouts say it is. 
Students can be unfair. The blame­less are sometimes blamed for matters 
-they have no control over. I remember the vituperations against the Holy Cross Sisters, God love them, at the time of the non-merger between N.D.­SMC. T.C. the columnist stays in my mind as a caricature: William Butler Yeats, if you can imagine him, with his broken pince nez held together with masking tape, foaming at the mouth at the idea of greedy, avaricious, money­hungry power-crazed nuns who stood in the way of progress, like wicked step­mothers refusing Cinderella's hand in marriage ~o the all-American boy, be­cause they wanted a better offer. 
The truth was quite different; but 
T.C. loved being a cheerleader inten­sifying the emotions of coeds, who were already flying banners from their win­dows, denouncing their alma mater as Screw U. T.C., like the poet to whom he was a young look-alike, was gentle and personable to meet. But he churned out hate when he wrote, like a propaganda machine that has no con­science. He raised the question in my mind of how the campuses could defend themselves from the irresponsibility of opinion-makers who cared more about their prose than they did their proprieties. 
Humor, as far as I can see, has never been a strong suit of the paper. Sar­casm isn't very humorous, especially if it has the subtlety of a booted foot trying to kick something to death. One fellow used to get humor out of being a dead ringer for one of the campus ministers. The student had an earthi­ness to his wit that his mother noticed. To my surprise, she wrote to me to com­plain about it. When he came home, sl}e said, she was going to wash out his mouth with soap. All of us, I guess, would be better if we were answerable to our mothers. 
The Observer talent with the consis­tently comic vision that I remember is Michael Molinelli, who wrote the comic strip Molarity, later published in book form, still available at the bookstore. Mike's runner-up was Jeb Cashin, who drew a strip about a mouse named Simon. Simon could be charming, es­pecially when my dog Darby O'Gill was invited in for cameo appearances. But Jeb was hit and miss; he had no long­range view of his characters. In Molarity, you were offered a wel­tanschaung, as in Bloom County and Doonesbury. Jim Mole and his friends were brain children of an archie major; the panels were carefully· drawn so that it was clear what was happening. Molinelli plotted what his characters would be doing a year ahead of time. He had a talent for surprising the reader with that final panel: Father Ted, coming out on the porch of the Ad building, turning around, going back in. It takes a minute to figure out: it's Groundhog Day; Father Hesburgh is looking for his shadow. 

The Observer is one of the profoundest things we do around here: Notre Dame keeps its diary on the pages of The Observer; even days when the paper looks bad are diary entries. Everything, from the headlines to the personals, means something. An article read by a stranger wanting to take N.D. seriously, might say something that is too ugly to be the truth about any of us. A student should be careful of saying something he will be ashamed of later. I wish there were more humor, that gift of the gods to the young. Human beings struggle in an ambience that knows evil; laughter can make the devil him­self look like a fool. 
Students know how to be the source of laughter; but on center stage, they suddenly turn solemn with effort. Sud­denly they are pontificant like priests instead of clowing like clowns, to charm the readers with a vision that comes close to the truth. 
I love The Observer. This year's staff is one of the best. At night, out walking, I check three things: to see if the Dome is lighted; to see if Father Hesburgh's lights are on; to see if the lights are on in The Observer office, as a sign stu­dents are laying out a paper. When any of those three sets of lights are out, I feel lonelier and less protected. 
Happy birthday, Observer. Thanks for the memories, old gang of mine. May God bless The Observer that we're a part of, that is a part of us. 
Now 
continued from page 1 
of the doubt, both newsmakers and reporters. 
For the readers, the task, though dif­ficult, is not to confuse appearance with reality. Many times off -the-record com­ments clear the air, but can't be used. And the readers are left wondering. 
The Observer means business 
One builds a newspaper from the rev­enue side down. Sounds simple, but many newspapers, especially student ones, forget this. 
Newspapers should not sell their souls to survive, but they should live within their means. 
In finding ways to give the readers what they want, we try to be creative. For example, having corporate spon­sors benefits our newspaper, our readers and the sponsor. 
Everywhere in America, big and small newspapers are finding it in­creasingly difficult to keep revenue in­creases in pace with expenses. A news­paper has to be creative not only editorially, but also financially. 
give the readers what they want 
Whether it's color photographs, soap opera summaries, or a business page, one has to determine what the readers want and find a way to provide it for them. 
be responsive by being aware 
We created The Observer Campus Network to give our readers a voice on the campus and inside our newspaper. The surveys serve that purpose. 
In all things, a heirarchy exists. Just as a newspaper should not place itself before the community it serves, its staff should not place itself before the news­paper it produces. 
what difference? 
Twenty years and thousands of employees later, what difference has The Observer made? Each of the hundreds of thousands of students who have read The Observer during their lunch hours has a different answer. 
The Observer is a witness to all that we do and for all that we stand. It is, like all things which have permanence, a bond between all Notre Dame men and women who have gone before us and who will grace this place long after we have left. 
To its staff -past, present and future 
-it is home. To its readers, it is a marker of their daily presence, a testimony to their years at Notre Dame. 
Joe Murphy is the current Editor-in­Chief of The Observer. 

1 
I 
, 
The Voice became an independent Observer 
When I was in high school I was lucky enough to land a job covering scholastic sports for one of Washington's daily newspapers. Itwas there that I learned the business first hand from irritable editors who kept throwing copy back in my face until I got it right. 
Pat Collins 
The problem was my father was a doctor. And when your father is a doc­tor, there is tremendous pressure for you to follow in his-footsteps. 
I think they teach a course on it in medical school. 

-
My dad would constantly remind me that newspaper men were nothing more than glorified gos­sips...drifters...drinkers...scum of 
the earth. 
Now this of course all carne long before Watergate, when Woodward and Bernstein romanticized reporting and made it respectable ...at least in some quarters. 
At any rate, when I graduated from high school and got accepted to Notre Dame, I took a solemn oath in front of God, and more importantly, my father. The oath that I would leave newspapers behind me, go off to South Bend, enter pre-med and study as hard as I possibly could to become a physician. I also promised him I would try to quit smoking. 
Well, within three months after checking into Notre Dame, I had started my own paper. It was no great success. We published about three is­sues and I lost about three hundred dol­lars. My vow had been broken and I was still smoking. 
By the end of my freshman year, I had switched out of pre-med into English...and I had joined the Scholatic. 
I don't know what the Scholatic is like today, but then it was the Time ... the Newsweek of Notre Dame. It carne out every week with slick accounts of all kinds of activities in and around campus. 
There was a newspaper too .. .it was called the Voice ...but it was an every now and again thing. It was stale, stodgy and usually late. The Voice was financed by the University, but I think they spent more money on chin straps for the football team than they did for the newspaper. 

The year was 1966.. .I was a junior English major and news editor of the Scholatic...and still smoking. 
Together with two seniors, Robert Sam Anson and Steve Feldhaus, we concocted a scheme...an unholy al­liance...a secret plan to take over the Voice, kill it, and come out with a brand new paper. 
It wasn't that hard to do since Feldhaus was the editor of the Voice and had the power to hire and fire whomever he chose to do whatever he wanted. . . which is exactly what he did. 
So one day out came the Voice, proclaiming it was dead...and then about three weeks later in came the Observer. 
The idea was to have an independent newspaper supported by subscription fees from the students and advertising from the community...a newspaper free of censorship and control by the University. 
Independence was a big thing then.. .it still is. Because whoever con­trols the money you use to publish ul­timately controls what you publish. We wanted to be free. 
We recruited the best writers, the best salesmen ... and we were off. In about a year and a half's time we went from an "Everysooften newspaper" to a daily, with students not only doing the writing and selling, but a lot of the production work as well. 
There was a lot of controversy. We were against the war because it was immoral, against the Administration because it was too overbearing and against Mishawaka because it was there. 
It was great fun, but it wasn't a play newspaper. It was a real newspaper 
reflecting the thoughts and attitudes of 

1 
the students like never before. 
I remember joking about fat, balding alumni who would return to campus for football outings. Could all of this really be that important to them, we would say. 
Last Saturday, before the Navy game, I found myself together with some Observer writers and editors reliving our college newspaper days wishing that it could have gone on forever. Well, at least until I quit smoking .... 
Pat Collins was the second Editor-in­Chief of The Observer and is currently a television reporter in Washington, 
D.C. 

-----~ ------~--~----------------~ 
Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 Scene-Page 5 
ast: industrial South Bend 

1gh South Bend acquaints one with 
m. In a lot down on Main Street, an tdows cracked and missing. Weeds Ill its surrounding lot. Through the ; They lie covered by the pavement 
the weight of a loaded train. This tants ofSouth Bend's industrial past, :y admit of their age but not of their 
l's three largest industrial employers : Co., Studebaker and Drewry's Brew­were paid 90 cents an hour. Today er industrial greats have vanished, Sendix Corp., AM General and Roco, 
Photography by James Carroll. Text by Mark Mellet. 


----~~--------------­

Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 Scene-Page 6 
Grace land pulls Simon from out of a rut 
DEE PATRICK features writer 
Paul Simon was In a rut. His 
198.3 release Hearts and Bones was a flop. He needed something that would give his next album the freshness and vitality of his previous works. 

Records 
Graceland 
What he found was a tape a friend had given him which was a mix of African rhythms, R&B and had some accordlans thrown In for good measure. The prob­lem was he didn't know what the tape was. After a search, he found that It was mbaqanga. a South African style ofpop music. So packing up his guitar, Simon travelled to Johannesburg to record with South African musicians. 
The result is Graceland, one of the most surprising and stun­ning albums of the year. Musi­cally and lyrically, this album has to rank with Simon's best work. Including that with Art Garfunkel. 
Of the album's 11 songs, nine 
were performed with black South 
African musicians and bands, 
such as The Boyoyo Boys and 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo. 
which give Graceland a rhythmic 
punch unheard on any of 
Simon's earlier work. Two songs, 
"Diamonds On the Soles Of Her 
Shoes" and "Homeless," feature 
native-language lyrics. and the 
backing vocals on "I Know What 
I Know" give the album a dis­
tinctly African feel. 
As If the African backing musicians weren't enough, "That Was Your Mother" features a rot-licking zydeco beat provided by Good Rockln' Dopsle and The Twisters, and the final song on the record, "All Around The World Or The Myth Of Fin­gerprints" has a solid rock'n'roll back beat courtesy of the criti­cally acclaimed Los Lobos. 
Lyrically, Simon avoids the anti-apartheid militancy ofworks as Sun City. Instead, Simon in­vestigates technological ad­vancements against a backdrop of terrorism and hunger ("The Boy In The Bubble"), the beauty of Africa and Its abject poverty ("Homeless") and utter faith In love ("Gumboots") among others. 
But it Is with the title track that Simon hits the peak ofthe album lyrically and musically. Musically, the song Is played over a shim­mering guitar riff with a pedal steel thrown In and a backing vo­cal appearance by the Everly Brothers. Lyrically, "Graceland" stands as one of Simon's best ever efforts. He turns Elvis Pres­ley's home Into a symbol of redemption and optimism. After a failed marriage (perhaps Simon's marriage to Carrie Fis­her), the singer thinks a pilgrim­mage to Graceland will cleanse him. He can't explain why, hejust feels it. 

When he gets there he doesn't know If he will have to defend himself or If there are no ques­tions asked. He just knows he "will be received In Graceland." 
In the end Simon's musical trip to the home of Elvis restores his rock 'n' roll roots. His real trip to South Africa gives him the mu­sical power to sustain them, making this album truly one of Simon's, and this year's, best releases. 


Elvis's aim is still true on this album 
KRIS MURPHY features writer 
Another year, another Elvis al­bum. He's back with the Attrac­tions after playing with that other Elvis' session men on last year's King of America and the results are mixed. 
Records 
Blood and Chocolate 


In fact. this entire project Is In­consistent and . . . well . . . not what one would expect. I hesitate In saying that because Elvis was one of the original progenitors of the punk ethic. Simply put "punk" meant "Do It yourselfand don't glye the people what they 
WVFI Top Ten 
l.Soul Man Sam Moore and Lou Reed 
2.Coming Up Close 
'til Tuesday 
3.The Future's So Bright, I Gotta Wear Shades Timbuk 3 
4.Walk Like an E gyp­tian The Bangles 5.Don't Get Me Wrong 
The Pretenders 
6.Happy Hour Housemartins 
7.Blood and Roses 
The Smithereens . 
8.1 Believe R.E.M. 9.Shelter Lone Jus­tice lO.Limbo the Law Big Audio Dynamite 
This chart compiled from the playlists of WVFI·AM640 as of Nov. 5. 
want. Give them what they need Instead." Punk was not so much a sound but a kind of unspoken philosophy and 'tt seems that Elvis is still living by those Ideas. 
Last year he Insisted that we 
call him Declan McManus, his 
real name. This year "Elvis" Is 
right there on the cover and only 
the writing credits say McManus. 
So what do we call him now? Also 
now that he's brought back the 
Attractions we expect to hear the 
Attractions right? No such luck. 
A majority of the songs on Blood 
and Chocolate are slow to mid­
tempo and the Attractions' signa­
ture cheesy organ sound shows 
up only rarely. 
In light ofall this Inconsistency 
the music makes sense. Some 
songs, "I Hope You're Happy 
Now" and "Tokyo Storm Warn­lng" are fast and punchy, like the happy now-You're supposed to 

m<\lorlty of early Elvis composi­be/And I know this will hurt 
tions, and they contain the you1nore than It hurts me." 
brutally-honest-and-even-Phrases like that are brutal but then again Elvis has never been one to pull punches. 
Most of the other songs are anything but fast and punchy. They alternately grind or waltz forward to slow tempos and spare arrangements. Lyrically they are also brutal but In a much different way. In "l Want You" Elvis empties his heart seemingly without double meanings or any hint of sarcasm and the result Is just as unset­tling as his usual doses of venom; "I want yowBut It's the stupid details my heart Is break­Ing for... I want you-Go on and hurt me then we'll let It drop." 
Most of these songs are hard, even unpleasant to listen to be-cause of the naked emotional states they chronicle and be­cause of their plodding. uneven arrangements. It's about the time I start to reach for the fast forward button that I realize that Elvis wants It that way. He went through some kind ofhell writing that song and the listener Is chal­lenged to relive his experiences and possibly to Jearn somethln~. 

Elvis's aim Is still true. He's going to hit you where It hurts and you'll be forced to deal with it. Your alternative Is to Ignore this record and chances are you probably will. Those of us who appreciate Elvis will sit down In front of our speakers, lyric sheet In hand and red shoes on our feet prepared to be unsettled, an­gered and maybe anxiety ridden. Nobody said rock 'n' roll was going to be easy. 
WITH SPECIAL GUEST STARS 
The 
GaryPuckett HERMANS G~ 
&The UnionGap HERMRS .1x,--­
NOVEMBER 11, 7:30P.M. NOTRE DAME ACC 
Reserved Tickets: $14.00 
ON SALE AT A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, 
SEARS (MISHAWAKA lk ELKHART), ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OffiCE) NIGHlWINOS (MISHAWAKA lk NILES) ELKHART TRUTH SUPE~SOUNOS (ELKHART), J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPORTE) MUSIC MAJIC (BENTON HARBOR) 
CHARGE IY PHONE M.C./VISA 219-239-7460 

•EJ.EGANTI..Y FUNNY 
...'A Room With a View' is like a holiday out of time. Splendidly acted...Quite an achievement." 
-Vincent Canby, NEW YORK TIMES 

-~ ~--~---~-----------------------­
-

Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 Scene-Page 7 
Movies. 
The Scoop ik]
IL__,_Ma_ss__ 
The Student Activites Board will tions," featuring the works of Giovanni 
present "Sixteen Candles" Friday and Battista Plranesi. The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Saturday night In the Engineering Opening this weekend at the ~rt Cen­heart Church this weekend will be: ~udltorlum. Molly Ringwald Is celebrat­ter on St. Joseph Street Is the exhibit IMusic Father Oliver Williams at 5 p.m. on Ing a very lonely birthday. Everyone Is "Henderika: Recent Works by Hen· Saturday.
1~1 

occupied with her sister's wedding and derika Akkerman" in the Women's Art Father George Wlskirchen at 9 a.m. the only person Interested In her is the League Gallery. The Glee Club Alumni Concert will on Sunday. school geek (Anthony Michael Hall). 
be presented at 8:15p.m. Friday night Father Neils Rasmussen at 10:.30. Showtlmes are at 7, 9:15 and 11 p.m. at Washington Hall. The concert is Father David Tyson at 12:15 p.m. with $1.50 admission. sponsored by the department of The department of communication music. For further information call Eric The schedule for confessions in Sa· and theater will present Francis Ford cred Heart Church Is:
Kuehner at 2.39-6201. Coppola's "One From The Heart" A faculty guitar recital featuring Monday through Saturday at 11:15 Friday night in the Annenberg Stephen Miller will be presented at 4 a.m. 
Auditorium. Coppola recreated the Las p.m. Sunday at the Annenberg Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Vegas strip on a sound stage for this "The Magic of David Copperfield" Auditorium of the Snite Museum ofArt. Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. movie which is simultaneously an old will be presented Saturday night at the Saturday only 4-5 p.m. in the crypt. 
The critically aclalmed cult favorites Holiday Star Theater In Merrillville, Ind. 

fashioned romantic comedy, a musical The Mekons will perform at 7:.30 p.m. 
fantasy and an erotic love story. Show­The shows are 4:.30 and 8 p.m. Tickets Saturday at the Cabaret Metro at .37.30 Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15 times are 7:.30 and 9:.30 p.m. with for the show are priced at $16.95 and 
-

N. Clark St. In Chicago. These forerun­p.m. in the Lady Chapel. $1.50 admission. available by calling (219) 769-6600. "!·
ners ofcowpunk play everything from A guide to local movie theaters In Cajun to country to blues. Tickets are The rosary Is said daily at 6:45 p.m. the South Bend area. at the Grotto. 
$5. 

University Park Mall on Grape and The Improvisational comedy team of Cleveland Roads at 277-0441. Abrams and Anderson will perform at Fourm Cinema on US .31 at 277-Theodore's at 8:.30 p.m. Saturday 1522. night. The duo has performed at Colby Town and Country on 2.340 North College, Dartmouth College, Princeton Hickory Road at 259-9090. University, Smith <;allege, The Univer­Scottsdale in the Scottsdale Mall at sity of Connecticut and The University 291-458.3. of Florida. Tickets for the show are $2 
River Park on 2929 Mishawaka Ave­and on sale at The Cellar. nue at 288-8488. 100 Center Cinema in the 100 Cen­The women's volleyball team con­
ter at 259-0414. tinues its home stand this weekend with three games. The Lady Irish will take on Dayton at 7:.30 p.m. Friday night; Northwestern at 7:.30 p.m. Sat­urday night; and Pittsburgh at 2 p.m. . on Sunday afternoon. 
Continuing at the Snlte Museum Is The football team will look to con· the "American Master Photographers" tinue their winning ways when they exhibit located In the Print, Drawing take on Southern Methodist Saturday 
and Photography Gallery and the afternoon In Notre Dame Stadium. "Piranesi Prints from Indiana Collec· Kickoff is 1 p.m. 
The audience knows something
lCI'<;I'CI?<;I'CI'<;I'G"<;I'CI?<;I...<;I'G"<;I """' ..................~ ................... c:?<;I'G"<;I c:?<;l'c:?<;I'CI?<;I'G"<;I'c:?<;I'G"<:I'c:?<;l'c:?<;I'G"<;I ...<;I'CI?<;I'G"<;I'c:?<;I'G"<;I'c:?<:l·c:?<;I'G"<;,'G"<;,'CI'<;,'C?<;l'CI?<;l'CI?<;l'CI'<;.'G"<;,'G"<;l...<;l'G"<;l'c:?<;l'c:?<:I'CI?<:IJ 
Is up when Sam Is seen opening Elvira's gate. Once Inside Elvira's 
f o..6 ~"Happy-o..6 -f"H.,.py-o..6 -{"Happy-o..6 _J,."Happy-o..6~ ~"Happy-a.... ~"Happy-. i house, all great movie buffs will
~ ~ "Holid•YI (ft. "Holid•YI ~· "Holid•YI ~ 1""Holid•YI ~ '1)'l"Holid•YI ~ "Holid•YI ~ 
recognize that Elvira is watching the classic "The Bad Seed" In which a little girl murders her friends In order to steal their toys. Shortly after, a basketball comes bouncing through the
I 0 Annual <!!~ristmas I• 
living room. The parallel be­wteen Sam and the character In "The Bad Seed" and the bounc­Ing ball help to set an eerie mood for the scene and foreshadow the murder which Is about to take
f 0 0~ iSnnk &alt ~ I• 
place. 
~o p.s\~oO~ .,..1Jb 1~ (6•ft /f;~t-clrel1$ ~· 
o0~v 6. .,H or t '1% tOry u Kristy Swanson Is well cast In 
~ 0 He\~ Cc. -,g ~ Sf'>·e 1'ra.,~", C her role as Sam. Her robot-like 
II "~ ,., "~· ~,.. "'~ i1 movements after her resurrec·
° C'"'c:.,~~ ..~ce h. ~ 
II ,\"0-" .r1r¥ • I) tlon are very convincing. The 
o 'ao~ •
b ..~ 0 only drawback In "Deadly Friend" b ~ is the fact that Paul, boy genius 
o ~ extrodlnare, would go off the II H ~ deep end and bring Sam back to ~ ammes g life. IfPaul was madly In love with 
~ g Sam, then his desire to bring her 
b Dnooe a,:.f'..t B k ,. back to life would be more jus­
0 r ~ ~I v. 00 store G'titled. A clumsy but convincing 
~ b love scene between Paul and 
0
b Sam would have helped to make
wr'Q'n "l·ng
g It~~ b.
" 2nd Floor Book Dept. Paul's motives more evident.b ~ To close and complete this
'tit 0 
o • · • ~ • ~ • ~ .r. b review, Ray Raymond, the~ ~'HwY" 1"Happy-1-H.,.Pr ~ ~W•PPY" +-fl""•PPY" 1&:ll -f"H•PPY" g creator of "BB" must be men· ~ Walidq, "Holid•YI "Holid•YI "Holid•y• "Holid•y• "Holid•y• g tloned. This very appealing robot 
t g helps make "Deadly Friend" a 
II I) success. Anybody who likes to 



g.~:~,.~:~~.~:~..a-~:~•~:~..a-~:~..a-~:~..a-~:~•~:~..a-~:~•.:.•~:~.i::l.~:>.i:l.~:>.,..~:~..a-~:~..=.~:~.~:~~.,;,,.,;,,.~:~,.,;,..a-,;,~.~~.~:~..a-,;,~.~:~•,;,..a-,;,~.~:~~.~:~..a-~:~~~,;,~.~:~~.,;,~.~:~~~:~..a-~:~..:~~:~..a-~:~•~:~..a-~:~..a-~:~..a-~:~ be scared should see this movie. 
------~----~---------~----­

Weekend Edition-November 7-8, 1986 Scene-Page 8 
The Observer: An idea whose time had come 
On the 20th birthday ofthe stu­dent newspaper, we should reflect not only on The Obser­ver's coming of age, but also on how Notre Dame came to age. Years ago, an undergraduate publication was required to 
Father Robert Griffin 
Letters to a Lonely God 
maintain a reverence for the elders at all times. 
In the good old days, editors and writers on publication like The· Scholastic and The Leprac­
-
haun (a defunct humor maga­zine) were expected ~ keep a civil tongue in their heads, ifthey wanted to stay out of trouble. Faculty censors drew their blue pencils through passages offen­sive to pious ears. You weren't free to publish much that wasn't nice. The Observer, as a journal of news and opinion, was an Idea whose time had come. Students had this Idea ofstarting their own newspaper; but without approval from above, they wouldn't have gotten far. They could have turned out a poorer version of The Scholastic, or a gripe sheet or an underground rag that would eventually fold. But they could never have kept a publica­tion like The Observer alive with­out the Administration's help. A campus paper left free to run on its own, can be critical of au­thority, argumentative, unfair, 
and outrageous; It can take pot­shots left and right; It can If It chooses, be downright silly. It can do and be all the wrong things that The Observer has done and has been. 
A student newspaper can also 

be the wise child who tells the emperor how naked he Is. It can be the window open to the world, through which the fresh air can come to blow off the hot air of academia. It can competently at­tack the White House for its stupidity, and cast doubts about the wisdom coming out ofRome. 
It can, In an enlightening way, debate the merits of war and peace; It can warn power struc­tures about the necessity of let­ting the slaves go free. It can be a voice crying In the wilderness, defending the widow, the or­phan, the poor, the alienated, the losers. With ail the passion of youth, It can petition the tyrants to give peace a chance. 
I have read messages of this kind, day after day, year after year, on the pages ofThe Obser­ver; the best In us, and some­times the worst In us, has ap­peared In that paper. But It could happen only when the adminis­trators who call the shots gave up the paternalism typical of Catholic education and Catholic orthodxy in the ears of Sarin and O'Hara. Typical of the Catholic 


a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

Church, If you really want to know, since the time of the In­quisition, when priests sen­tenced heretics to the flames for holding intolerant views about the mercy of God. 
In 1949, when I was a Notre Dame senior, we had to get ec­clesiastical permission to read Jean-Paul Sartre; in 1956, when I was a graduate student; we had to g~t ecclesiastical permission to read Madame Bovary. 
Despite the censorship of bOoks, scholarship was still pos­sible, and we didn't feel frustrated, though the academic freedom was a little like that of a protective seminary. In the 40s and 50s, The Observer, always feisty In calling a spade a spade, wouldn't have been allowed the right to exist. 
In the 60s, the lcEi]am of Cath­olic Intransigence began to melt. The long, dark winter of the cold war with Reformation theology was ending with Vatican II. At the Vatican, popes were hugging surprised Protestant observers to their bosoms, halllng them as brothers. At Notre Dame, Theodore Hesburgh didn't walt for the Council Fathers to tell him he could make the sophisticated decisions which could turn a great little denommlnatlonal col­lege, with the same ghetto men­tality that other American Cat­holics had, Into the beginnings ofa great university which would serve the world. 
Any old graduate can tell you how tough the rules used to be. In the middle of the changes In the decade of the Civil Rights Movement The Observer was 

started. N.D. students had never 
before been permitted to be so 
loud-mouthed. Some of the old 
priests were terrified of young 
reporters with their notebooks 
visible. They knew Ifone of these 
kids quoted them, the kid would 
get It wrong. 

In my book. Hesburgh Is the citizen of the world dreaming dreams; Tennyson's Ulysses seeing vision. He offers us his educated Imagination as a blueprint that should make us desirous of following knowledge like a fallen star. An Insight like that of blind Milton makes him dare to be Innovative: "I cannot praise afugltlve and cloistered virtue." 
His most famous predecessor hid some of the library books so the students couldn't read them, banned Irreverent magazines, and kept Black feet offOur Lady's segregated campus, as a favor to Southern whites. Hesburgh, If he could, would load the school that O'Hara tried to keep clois­tered In pure Catholic grace, aboard a spaceship so he could take the students to see the galaXIes. 
A thin-skinned president might be tempted to show the students the back of his hand, for being hard .to get along with. Did you ever hear of Hesburgh being less than a gentlemen, even when he's sassed to his face? 
The Observer Is the outward sign of an Inward right you have to quarrel with the universe with­out getting your ears boxed by the head tyrant In charge of get­ting even. You could hire Rockne as the football coach, build a II­brary 50 stories In the sky, and endow a dozen chairs In every department; but if you take away the right to answer back. or the snarling privileges, or the satis­faction of asking. "Why not for crying out loud," you could end up with anything from a boy scout troop to a totalitarian sys­tem. 
But you won't have a first-class debating society, and you cer­tainly won't have academic freedom, which Is so unsympat­hetic to the Infallibility claiming. "Father knows best." Without academic freedom, you won't have a university; or even a Cath­olic university, a rare bird If there ever was one. 
The Observer Is the outward sign of the quiet strength In the Administration which makes room for the rebels. The paper has done an eftlcclent and re­sponsible job of advertising the different forms oflocal suffering­dietary, social, sexual, academ­Ic, recreational; spiritual, physi­cal, and aesthetic-to the poobahs on high, as well as of being a gold mine of news and Information we depend on. 
If I emphasize the way The Ob­server showcases your In­solence, It's because the prayers to St. Jude In the personals are not an acid test of the right of free speech. This anniversary Is a fantastic landmark to arrive at; It gives us hope that The Obser­ver, even with Its fault Is here to stay. We know by now that the gold paint wouldn't chip off the Golden Dome if an Irishman should yell "Firel" In a crowded stadium. 

COME TALK TO THE BEST IN THE BUSINESS! 
We'll tell you about career opportunities and summer internships with one of the world's largest financial services organizations. 
Wednesday, November 12 7:30p.m. University Club 
Refreshments will be served. 



----~-----------------------------------------------~ --------~----------------------------------­
Aces 
continuedjrompage 16 
part. With Evansville around the corner, that has Grace con­cerned. 
"We're kind of coasting through things right now," he says. "Since I'm an alarmist, I've been screaming, ranting, and raving at the guys. We just weren't ready to play. But by the time Sunday rolls around I think the guys will be ready for them." 
There is also some concern in the Evansvile camp, where the team has not had a three­game winless streak in five years. 
"We haven't been finishing," says Evansville forward Dan O'Donnell. "It's the whole team's problem -we can't get the easy goals." 
Despite the drop in the 
rankings, the Purple Aces are 
almost assured of getting a bid 
to the NCAA Tournament. This 
is their final regular-season 
game, so they seriously need a 
victory before entering post­
season play. 
"This team is hungry," says 
O'Donnell. "We're getting 
ready for the tourney, and we 
want to play well. We're 
worried more about our­
selves." 
For added incentive, 
Evansville starts four seniors, 
three of whom were all­
Amt>ricans last year. After 
losing in the semifinals of last 
year's tournament, only a na­
tional championship will suf­
fice. 
"They can't afford to lose to 
Notre Dame," says Grace. 
"That winless streak is just an­other incentive, which bothers me." 
But the Irish know they can play with the best. Last year they took the Purple Aces into overtime before losing, 4-2. 
"We think we'll play well," says Irish co-captain Steve Lowney. "It's a sign of a good team when you play bad (against Western Michigan) but still win. It's the right time for an upset for. us." 
Lowney, along with John Guignon, anchor the Irish defense at both sweeper and wingback. Guignon also has five goals and five assists for 15 points. 
Co-captain Jim Flynn and Pat McClanahan share time at the stopper and sweeper spots, and· Bill Gross, Tom Pernsteiner, Marvin Lett, Paul 
Gluckow,  and  Dan  Gordon  
should  see  action  at  the  
wingback positions.  

The duties at midfield will be handled by Joe Sternberg, Rolfe Behrje, Kevin Kade, and Tom Gerlacher. Sternberg is the second-leading scorer with nine goals and four assists for 22 points. Berhje has seven goals, three of which were game-winners. 
The two teams have met twice, with Evansville winning last year's contest and Notre Dame winning 4-1 in 1977. 
IRISH ITEMS -Notre Dame is undefeated at home this season with a 7-0-1 record ... McClanahan is ques­tionable for the game because of an illness ... The Irish have outscored opponents this year, 56-23, and have received more corner :kicks, 147-65. 


The Observer/David Fischer 

a former high-school teammate in this Sunday's game on page 16. 
Gegen features the sophomore's reunion with 

CHARITY BASKETBALL GAME 
SUNDAY, NOV. 9 
women---6:30 pm 
-----men to follow 
all proceeds to benefi 
I 
~~5\Ul)f HttPP£oot<PM 
ANO 

LOG~ C£N\eR.. $2 gen. public $1 for students available in advance at ACC and also at door 
~ ph..ofnS (~ -4t4~) --~ u 
• ~! o..uto~apk. S(SSior'l a.jttr' ~~J 

Reunion 
continuedfrom page 16 
for the eighth-ranked Purple Aces. After playing in every game last year, he has slumped to only two goals and one assist this season. 
But when both take the field this Sunday, they will find themselves in the awkward po­sition of playing against each other. 
Murphy and O'Donnell were teammates at Chaminade Col­lege Prepatory in St. Louis. As the starting forwards their senior year, they combined for 18 goals and 15' assists in leading their team to a 12-7-2 record and a top-ten ranking in the St. Louis area. 
"O'Donnell was the more 
skilled of the two," says Jim 
Gerker, their former head soc­
cer coach at Chaminade. 
"Murphy had the better nose for the goal," he adds, noting that Murphy h~d 11 of the 18 goals. "It was by far the most potent offense we've ever had here." 

Eight seniors from tpat high school team moved on to col­lege soccer. O'Donnell ac­cepted a scholarship from Evansville, while Murphy joined two teammates at Creighton in Omaha, Neb. 
"I didn't get much playing time there at all," says Murphy. It was a young team, and I was playing behind two all-Americans. 
''I started slow, but I learned. The transition from high school soccer to · college is really tough." 
Murphy registered three as­sists in that final season of soc­cer at Creighton. But once the season ended, the exodus began. 
"We found out they dropped the program the day we came back from Thanksgiving 
Procter and Gamble Finance 
invites you to offend 
.......... 

An informational presentation 
Tuesday, November 11 
6:00 · 8:00 pm 

Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn refreshments will be served 
open to undergraduates and MBA's 

break," he says. "Within tht 
next two weeks most of the 
team had transferred. Eventu­
ally everyone transferred." 
Over Christmas break, 
Murphy was working at his 
family's construction business 
when a former fellow summer 
employee stopped by. That per­
son was Irish stopper John 
Guignon, who also was a team­
mate of Murphy's on the Liebe 
soccer club, a winter indoor 
team. In fact, Guignon had 
played against both Murphy 
and O'Donnell in high school 
while attending St. Louis Uni-, 
versity High, and even in that 
grade school league as a mem­
ber of rival parish team. 
"He told me of the news," 
says Guignon, "and I told him 
to think about applying at 
Notre Dame. I didn't think 
anything of it at first, but then 
he called me and told me he 
was seriously considering it. 
At the time Irish head coach 
Dennis Grace was looking at 
two players from Creighton in 
addition to Murphy. But 
Murphy was the only one whose 
transfer to Notre Dame worked 
out. 
O'Donnell's path has been 
much smoother. As a freshman 
he started three games at for­
ward for a team that went un­
defeated in the regular season 
and advanced to the semifinals 
of the NCAA tournament . 
This season he has split time between forward and midfield. Though his team has just dropped out of the top ranking after a loss to Akron, he and his teammates come to Notre Dame, hoping to play well in preparation for another spin in the NCAA tournament. 
The last time Murphy and O'Donnell saw each other was at a Chaminade alumni exhibi­tion soccer game in August. Even in that game they played on the same side. 
"I'm really looking forward to playing against him," says Murphy. "I really respect his skill and speed. I just hope (Irish sweeper Steve) Lowney and Guignon can stop him." 
"It's the first time I've played against anyone even from Chaminade," says O'Donnell. "I can't wait." 
~OLLEYBALL EXTRAVAGANZA!!! 
~~'  
.  
u[}={]~ [p~~~u ~@© ~~©~[L~ ©[N]  NOV. 7  VS. DAYTON (9-17 record) 7:30PM  
~~O[Q)~W fS. ~~uQJJ~[Q)~W  NOV.B  VS. NORTHWESTERN (11-14) 7:30PM  
@~u  ~  [p[R1~~  ffi!AJQJJ@~~~~~~~~~~~~  NOV.9  VS. PITT (22-8)  

Also: Valuable Coupons from Area Sponsors 
---• 


---------------~-------~---~---------~~--­
Talent-laden wrestlers look for big campaign 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 
Last year, led by a group of talented freshmen, the Notre Dame wrestling team had several competitive perfor­mances against high caliber schools. Unfortunately, the Irish ended the season with a disappointing 7-8 record and no wrestlers qualifying for the NCAA Tournament. 
This year, with another out­standing freshman class and a new assistant coach, the Irish are hoping to be more than just competitive. 
"Last year we wanted to be respectable and to look good with these big schools," says third-year Head Coach Fran McCann. "This year we want to look good and win." 
Notre Dame will have its first chance in the nine-team Mic­higan State Invitational this weekend at East Lansing, Mich. The Irish finished sixth ill this Invitational last year. 
"The level of competition is pretty good. All the schools are really into wrestling. We haven't done well in this tourn­ament in the past," says McCann. "It's a good opener for the simple reason that everyone will get to wrestle three times. We need some competition, and we'll get a lot in this tournament." 
McCann has good reason for being eager to see his 1986-87 squad in action. 134-pound sophomore captain Jerry Durso, who sported a 36-7 record last season, heads a group of sophomores starting this weekend which includes 126-pound Dave Carlin, 142­pound Pat Boyd, 158-pound Dan Carrigan,and 167-pound Chris Geneser. The rest of the starters include 177-pound senior Dave Helmer, 150-pound junior Ron Wisniewski, US­pound freshman Andy Raden­baugh, 190-pound freshman Dan Mitchell, and heavyweight freshman Mike O'Brien. 
"Every one of our kids has improved. Their confidence level is much better. The abil­ity is there, it's just a matter of believing in themselves," says McCann. 
While the group of sop­homores, which was rated as last year's fourth best fresh­man crop in the nation, heads the team, the Irish have an­other outstanding group of freshmen this season, named the fifteenth best in the country. Top freshmen include Radenbaugh, Mitchell, O'Brien, and 150-pound Mike Sheets. 
Radenbaugh, from St. Joe, Mich., won the USA Wrestling National Junior Tournament this summer in Iowa. Mitchell comes from one of the top high school wrestling programs in the nation, St.Edward's High School in Cleveland. 
"I think Radenbaugh will make the biggest impact of the freshmen. That's the premier high school tournament in the country, and he was competing with about 90 guys. Usually if you win that, you're going to do well in college," says McCann. "Mitchell is in a po­sition where we don't have the numbers (of people) at 190. He's a well-set kid, and he's got the skills and technique. He just needs a little more upper body strength." 
Ricky Stewart, a former as­sistant coach at Oklahoma State and Clemson, will help McCann direct the young team as assistant coach. 


Anthony Johnson (22) breaks through a hole up Terry Lynch features the freshman tailback in the middle against Purdue earlier this season. his story on page 13. 
Bowman resigns as Sabres' skipper 
Associated Press The Buffalo News, quoting Bowman, 52, was under pres­
unidentified sources outside sure last week after the team 
BUFFALO-Scotty Bowman, the team, reported that Bow­got off to the worst start in its the National Hockey League man made the decision to step 17-year history and owned the coach with the most wins, has down. worst record in the league at stepped down as coach of the 1-7-2. The Sabres have won Buffalo Sabres and will be The newspaper said Bowman their last three games,replaced by assistant Craig will keep the title of general however, but still are only 4-7-2 Ramsay, according to a report manager and director of and last in the Adams Division. 
published yesterday. hockey operations. 
South Bend native feels right at home at Irish tailback slot 
By TERRY LYNCH Purdue game, when he single­her, Mike, is a walk-on defen­of hard knocks. But as opposed large people. He manages to Sports Writer handedly managed to break sive tackle. to the crazier variety of college keep gaining yards, so nobodythree tackles and somehow find "Unusual enough for a fresh­football players these days, really worries, including Stock. When you look for bright the goal line. Suddenly, man, he doesn't make mis­Johnson has a refreshing bit of "Tons of tailbacks in the spots in Notre Dame's everybody wanted to know takes," says running back common sense when it comes country come in a variety of rollercoaster season so far, one about this tough freshman tail­coach Mike Stock of Johnson. to the physical aspects of the packages," says Stock. "Her­name that consistently appears back who was also following "All we ask of him is that he game. shel Walker wasn't built like a is that of Anthony Johnson. the old story line of local boy must be a physical football "I'm not a guy that's hell­tailback in most people's 
Not only is Johnson one of the making good. player both with and without bent for hitting a guy three minds, but he got the job done. most consistent ballcarriers in A6-1, 220-pound tailback who the ball. He's made things hap­times bigger than me," says the Irish backfield, but he has is a product of John Adams pen when he's touched the ball Johnson. "If I can, I try to run For Johnson, everything come to symbolize the kind of High School in South Bend, this season." around him. seems to be running smoothly, hope Irish football fans expect Johnson has no lack of local So far this season, Johnson "I try not to think about regardless of his size. Even the in future seasons under Lou support behind him. But that's has piled up 231 yards on 46 (getting hit). I just look for a initial thrill of playing as a Holtz. not a big problem when you're carries with four touchdowns, hole and try to go through it. I freshman has settled down a 
Perhaps the most the second oldest of nine chil­also catching three passes for have a lot of confidence in the bit. memorable highlight of the dren in your family (a per­18 yards. line." "I work quite a bit in prac­1986 season so far has been sonalized cheering section? Most of those yards have But it is Johnson's size and tice, but as far as playing goes, Johnson's 13-yard touchdown "Yeah, they're loud enough," been tough yards, however, lack of blazing speed that has it's one of those things I've been run in the fourth quarter of the says Johnson). His older brot-and Johnson has had his share him meeting up with these called on to do." 
Branch had been involved in a marijuana possession case, and almost everyone knows of ~ continuedfrom page 16 the Herman Veal incident when Driesel threatened a woman Penn State game. Even if it who had brought charges of shouldn't get that match up and sexual assault against the despite Notre Dame's marquee player. Realistically, Driesel value, Notre Dame wouldn't should have been let go then. get the bid there. If they got it But after a much worse inci­anywhere, it would probably dent, the drug-induced death of come from a bowl more along a player, the University is wor­the lines of a Liberty Bowl, rying about buying out where the Irish went the last Driesell's contract? There was time they had a 6-5 record. a simpler and quicker solution 
Another big story in Bal­fire him. timore was the end of the Lefty As for keeping him on in the Driesell saga. After months of athletic department, that's speculation, Driesell resigned also a mistake. He's shown a 
Lll.r (B[)~illilill~ W!Zill~ [1!]][8[8 Bowl 
as head coach of the Maryland total disregard for academics. basketball team. A few things As the sports world becomes in­in this story are somewhat be­creasingly anti-drug and pro­wildering. The first is that academics, there are 'fewer 
Maryland kept Driesell on an and fewer places for those like an assistant athletic director. Driesell. Secondly, officials had been Turning to this weekend's ac­
looking into the possibility of tion, the big games aren't con­buying out his Driesell's con­fined to Notre Dame Stadium. tract. And when it was all over, The volleyball team starts a Robert Novak, a national poli­three-game weekend home tical columnist known for his stand against Dayton, peren­conservative views, wrote a nial power Northwestern and column defending Driesell and Pittsburgh (24-9, 8-0 and blaming other members of the leading the Big East). Sunday, media for his firing. the Irish soccer team takes on 
Time out. eighth-ranked Evansville. 
The Len Bias case wasn't the So if you're looking for dis­first time one of Driesell's tractions in the world of sports players had been involved in a this weekend, take in one of the scandal. Previously, Adrian above games. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~he Abrams Chair in Jewish Studies 
presents 
Abrams Distinguished Lecturer 
He died 

After he turned down food, water and all the trungs t1e lovea--even sex And chose cocaine instead He did all he wanted until he had a seiZure and died The Chosen 
My N arne is Asher Lev
This doesn1 just happen to anrnals in research. It happens to people, too. Smart people. successful people. People in The Book of Lights control. Until they lose all control to a drug thars more addictive than heroin: cocaine. 
Authority and Rebellion: 
They tum awaytrom friends and family. Lose 

The Individual and Modern Literature 
jobs and self-esteem. And even die before they ever get help 

Monday, November 10, 4:00 PM 
Getting help for those we care about is critical 

The Writer/Artist Against the World 
and we can begin by educating ourselves with the facts about cocei ne and 

Tuesday, November 11, 4:00 PM
other drugs 

Question and Answer Session Wednesday, November 12, 10:30 AM 
All lectures will be held on the Notre Dame Campus in the 
Center for Cofltinuing Education Auditorium 
THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME 
~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


-------~---~...-----~---~--~-~-~~---­
-----------------~~------~-­

Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 14 
Women's swimming contingent needs depth in ND Relays 

By KATHLEEN McKERNAN Sports Writer 
Graduation, foreign study programs, and injuries ate at the core of last year's 8-3 wo­men's swim team. Nonethe­less, the Irish looked deep in last weekend's 143-120 victory over Denison. 
Tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Center, second­year head coach Tim Welsh will further test his young teams depth as the men's and women's swim teams host the Notre Dame Relays. 
"Things look pretty optimis­tic," Welsh says. "Everyone's going to swim. These past ten days have been some of our 
.. very best practices so far. The times, the amount of work done, the spirit and the inten­sity all made for great prac­tices." 
"We took a comparison of the times from last year and this year," Welsh says, "I was really somewhat surprised. The results show that our pro­grams have done more than I expected." 
Andrea Bonny, last year's star diver, has gone to London this semester. Holianne Logan also travelled to Britain. Soph­omore Tracy Johnson will be in Austria the entire year. Stu­dent trips to Europe meant more holes for Coach Welsh to fill in his lineup in addition to the spaces vacated by graduat­ing seniors and Erin Daley, who is out this year with a back injury. 
Welsh, however, brought in a whole new class of freshmen. 
"This is very much like a new team," he said. "There are some familiar faces, but with all the losses, this new group is extremely welcome." 
Leading the group alphabeti­cally is Mary Acampora out of Bristol, Conn. 
"Mary's very versatile," Welsh says. "She trains with a wonderful attitude. She can make a large contribution. 
Giving the Irish some much­needed strength in the back­stroke events is Betsy Baker, a sophomore new swimmer with a strong technique. 
Kathy Quirk comes in with an excellent sprinting back­ground. She will swim the 50 and 100 freestyle events. 
"Kathy comes to the pool to race," Welsh says. "She's an excellent compeitor and one of 

~~~~~~ 
~~·/ 
II 

our Notre Dame Scholars." 
"Margaret Coffman has been a pleasant surprise as well. She's got a natural feel for the water. 
"Ruth Hanlon, is a South Bend product. The distance race has gone from being a long race for Ruth into being the strategic event that it is," he continues. 
Welsh also has praise for the athletic talent of Indianpolis' 
Came aver ta th• Club and buy yaur... 

We•k•ndhaura: Friday-!IPM~ 2AM Saturday -half haur after 
the r:.ame -2AM 
own Annette Quill. 
"She's one of the few people who can perform well at all four strokes." Welsh says. 
The diving portion of the pro­gram is strengthened by the ad­ditions of Georgia Boessler and Kay Richter. The two are striv­ing to preserve the strength of one of last year's strongest events, along with sophomore returnee Kathy Epping. 



·························································································································:· 
SABpresents: dersof\ 
~Art at 
AbrafllS 
I an impro,.isational comedy team 
I 

today is the last day to buy limited tickets at the ceDer .................. ····································································································' 

Campus 
FRIDAY 
12:15 -1:05 p.m.: Modern and Classical Languages Workshop, "The Natural and the Normal in Language Teaching," by Prof. Wilga Rivers, Harvard University, 220 O'Shaughnessy 3:30p.m.: GTE Emerging Scholar Lec­ture, Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, "Resonant Tunneling in Double Barrier Heterostructures," by Mark Reed, Texas Instruments, Inc., En­gineering Board Room, Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering 3:30p.m.: Philosophy Colloquium, "Two Ideals of Friendship," by David O'Connor, ND, Memorial Library Lounge 4 p.m.: Thomas J. White Center on Law and Government Lecture, Topic: "Litigating Freedom of Religion Clauses in the Federal Appellate Courts", William Ball, Esq., 101 Law School 4 p.m.: Men's and Womens' Swimming -ND Relays; participants: ND, SMC, Val­paraiso, Univ. of Illinois-Chicago, Eastern Illinois, and Marquette, Rolfs Aquatic Center 
4:30p.m.: Reilly Lecture in Chemistry, "Soot, Soccer Balls and Stardust," by Richard Smalley. 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
6:30 p.m.: Lecture-Bible Study, theme: Traits of a Christian, topic: "The An­tichrist", speaker: Bill Edmondson, Campus Bible Fellowship Staff worker, Campus House 19525 Pendle Rd. 
8:15p.m.: Notre Dame Glee Club Alumni Reunion Concert, ticket vouchers needed a limited number of tickets may be avail: able after 8:05p.m. on a first come, first serve basis, Washington Hall 
9:30 p.m. -2 a.m.: Beaux Arts Ball, Theme: They Only Come Out at Night, Band: The Urge, $4, $5 at door, Architec­ture Building SATURDAY 
8 a.m.: Indiana Tailored Testing Pro­gram, sponsored by Freshman Year of Studies, Engineering Auditorium 
9:30 a.m. : Alcoholics Anonymous Closed Meeting, multi-purpose room, sponsored by the ND Alumni Assoc. and Center for Social Concerns, CSC 1 p.m.: Football: ND vs. Southern Meth­odist 
4:30 p.m. : Mass, Keenan-Stanford Chape1 
SUNDAY 2 p.m.: Emmaus Community Mass with the Mentally Handi-acapped followed by a potluck lunch, Moreau Seminary 
6:30p.m.: Intrasquad Basketball Charity Game, ACC 7 p.m.: A Call to Peace Week Slide show "Bethlehem Peace Pilgrimage" speaker; Fr. Jack Morris, CSC 
• 
8 p.m.: Lecture, Biotechnology and Medicine of the Future, Main Library Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Quiche Lorraine Stuffed Shells Baked Haddock Sesame Montery Muffin Melt 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Divan Breaded Fish on Bun Mexican Potato Deli Bar 


• 
Robby works his ant farm 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Search 
thoroughly 5 Strong wind 9 Canine 
command 13 Czech river 14 Forward 15 Unpleasant 
duty 16 Skeletal part 17 Off! 18 Uproars 19 Makes a 
killing in 
Cannes 22 Ukrainian city 23 Saudi city 26 Detest 28 Break­
(actor's wish) 30 Sch. subj. 31 Makes angry 32 Cal. town 33 Czech city 34 Tennyson 
refrain 

<>1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc.
37 "It's-... 
All Rights Reserved
world" 38 Breaks bread 39 Long time 5 Lollapalooza 40 Albanian coin 6 Ted Koppel's 41 Indian network 42 Nebs 7 Jacob's wife 43 Make possible 8 Major ending 45 Steep 9 Like a new 46 Falling out penny 

of formation 10 Rested 52 Relative 11 Carney 54 Floundering 12 Affirmative 55 Napa product 15 Actor Stevens 56 Smells bad 20 Newsstand 57 Wanton look 21 Gap 58 Celebes ox 24 Kuwaiti coins 59 Basilica 25 Bad golf shot 
section 26 Flyers 60 Lance or Lahr 27 Fragile stuff 61 Sailboat 28 Rugged ridge 
29 Grassy areas DOWN 32 Scot. hillside 1 Hall of Fame 33 Separation 

name 34 Cotton bundle 2 Essence 35 City in Ohio 3 Word on the 36 One way to 
wall play 4 Arctic ship's 41 Balls of reinforcement thread 


42 "Casablanca" star 
44 Slow down 
45 Villain's expression 
47 Marvin or Bernard of TV news 
11/1/86 
48 Words of 
understanding 49 Famed caravel 50 Be aware 51 Official 
stamp 52 Author Wolfert 53 Fiber cluster 

·--·-. _.,...~-............_,,,II-_ ---··•-..o.-_............_ --------·'"'"-+o~---1---_,,_-~~-1-'-• '-"~""--,..,--1 •..-..1---I ......44<1 ..... .._._-· ...-•--•-.,_.._..._~ 
Friday-Saturday, November 7-8, 1986-page 16
SRorts 

Irish soccer takes on eighth-ranked Evansville 
Purple Aces are toughest test yet 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame soccer team will host eighth-ranked Evansville this Sun­day at Alumni Field at 1 p.m .. 
The 13-6-2 Irish hope to end their best season ever with an upset of the Purple Aces. Already this season they surprised Connecticut, 2-1, and tied
• sixth-ranked Akron, 1-1. The team also has won the Wright State Invitational and the Florida International Southern Bell tournaments. The Purple Aces are riding a two­game winless streak which knocked them out of the top spot in the ISAA Coaches' Poll for the first time since the second week of the season. They tied Indiana, 1-1, last week and lost to Akron, 2-1, Tuesday. 
Notre Dame has dropped only one of its last seven games. Most recently the Irish shut out Western Michigan, 2-1, despite a poor perfornamce on their 
see ACES, page 11 


Irish forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt (13) forces his way past a Western Mic­higan defender in soccer action from 

NSC-leading ND volleyball team needs big showing in three-day set 
By BRIAN O'GARA 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a year 

makes. On November 7, 1985, 
the Notre Dame volleyball 
team was struggling with a 10­
14 record while in the midst of 
a one-game winning streak. 
They would eventually finish 
the season at 12-21. 
Today, exactly one year later, the Irish are 22-6, sit atop the North Star Conference with a 3-0 conference record, and hope for their first-ever bid to the NCAA Tournament. The chances of receiving this bid will be largely determined in the next three days as the team faces three tough opponents. 
The Irish open their busy weekend tonight in the ACC Pit with a 7:30p.m. match against North Star Conference rival Dayton. The Flyers, 2-1 in con­ference play and 9-17 overall, look to upset the Irish after losing the last two contests be­tween the two teams. 
Saturday night's match promises to be a lively one. The Wildcats of Northwestern in­vade the ACC in one of the most challenging matches of the 
season for the Irish. Northwes­
tern, traditionally a power in 
the strong Big 10 Conference, 
has qualified for the NCAA 
Tournament in five of the past 
six years and last year swept 
the Irish 0-15, 7-15, 3-15. 
This season the Wildcats 
have struggled to a 1-10 record 
against Big 10 Conference op­
ponents and an 11-14 record 
overall. But that doesn't fool 
Irish Coach Art Lambert. 
"Northwestern is the best 1­
10 team in the Big 10 that I've 
seen. They just have a world of 
talent." 
The Irish will barely have time to catch their breath after facing Northwestern before Pittsburgh rolls into town for a 2 p.m. match on Sunday after­noon. The Panthers will enter the match with a perfect 8-0 record in the Big East Confer­ence and an overall record of 24-9. 
Lambert, encouraged by his team's strong and spirited play of late, hopes to see the Pitt record fall to 24-10 but realizes the formidable tasks ahead of his team. 
"We've certainly got our 
work cut out for us this 
weekend," Lambert admits. 
Indeed they do. But the out­
look is far from bleak for the 
Irish. They enter the weekend 
in the midst of a six-game win­
ning steak, one short of a school 
record set in 1982 and earlier 
and the season. And since their 
last home loss on September 16 
against 17th-ranked Western 
Michigan, the Irish have gone 
18-3 with ten three-game 
sweeps. 
These impressive statistics will be on the line tonight, Sat­urday night and Sunday after­noon as the Irish seek to con­tinue their winning ways against a tough conference rival in Dayton and two expe­rienced and powerful teams in Northwestern and Pittsburgh. 
SIDE OUTS-This weekend's action will feature a special promotional offer. The first 250 fans for the Friday and Satur­day evening matches will recieve an official Notre Dame Volleyball mug. Both games begin at 7:30p.m. in the ACC Pit. 

Game features class reunion 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Amid all the excitement of the 

Evansville game this Sunday, there will 
be a reunion on the field. 
Facing each other for the first time since grade school will be Pat Murphy, a sophomore forward1nidfielder for Notre Dame, and Dan O'Donnel, a sophomore forward1nidfielder for Evansville. As former high school teammates, these two players have not played on opposing teams since their grade-school days in the West County Soccer League in St. Louis. 
Murphy is playing his first season for the Irish since transferring from Creighton University, whose soccer team folded at the end of last season. He has seen action in every game, scoring three goals and two assists, in­cluding the game-winning goal against Connecticut. 
O'Donnell is the starting midfielder 
see REUNION, page 11 

Holtz' football squad to go 'bowl'ing? 
Two weeks ago if anyone had said that Notre Dame was bowl bound, they would be writing themselves a one-way ticket to the nut farm. But now, after two impressive vic­tories, the Irish look like a bowl prospect. 
Last Saturday, scouts from the Florida Citrus and Freedom bowls were in Baltimore -and not just for the crabcakes. They were seriously scouting the then 2-4 Irish. Although Holtz cracked that the scouts had to be lost, he 
c

Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor 

himself had said at a previous press conference that given 
a few weeks off to prepare for post-season play, his team 
would be "awesome." 
At this week's conference, Holtz went so far as to say 
he had taken worse teams with better records than his 
current squad to bowls -and won. 
Could the Irish win enough games to receive a bowl bid? 
It's possible, but unlikely. This is not a criticism of the 
squad. The upcom,ing schedule just seems too formidable. 
Notre Dame would have to beat at least three opponents 
ranked in the Top 20, something it hasn't done yet. 
Most everyone you talk to concedes a loss somewhere 
down the line. So right there the best Notre Dame could 
finish is 6-5. Right now the Florida Citrus Bowl is in a 
bidding war with the Fiesta Bowl for a possible Miami-
see BOWL, page 13 






