---------------------------------------~~-~ 
Volunteers -page 9 

By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior Staff Reporter 
A new constitution and its bylaws for Notre Dame student government were approved last night by the Student Senate in a marathon four-hour-long meetin. 
For the new constitution to take effect, it now must be approv.ed by the Hall President's Council which meets tonight. 
The senate spent most of the night debating changes to the pro­posed constitution and its bylaws. 
Senate members approved a change in the membership of the Student Senate under the new con­stitution. The change adds the class presidents and president of the 
'Key' officials were unaware of objections to launching 
WASHINGTON · At least three 
NASA officials involved in the deci­
sion to launch space shuttle Chal· 
Ienger were not told that booster 
rocket engineers had "strongly 
urged against the launch," the 
presidential commission investigat· 
ing the: accident said yesterday. 
Upon learning of that problem last 
Friday, the commission ordered the 
space: agency and booster rocket 
maker Morton Thiokol "to collect 
and retain any and all documents, 
memoranda or personal notes of all 
persons" who took part in the deci· 
sion to launch the shuttle on its ill­
fated flight of jan. 28. 
The: three NASA officials, described as "key," were not iden· tified In the commission statement issued by spokesman Mark Wein­berg. 
CBS news, however, identified them as Associate: NASA ad· ministrator jesse Moore, Robert Sieck, the launch director, and Ar· nold Aldrich, shuttle manager at johnson. All three: arc: usually in the launch control center at liftoff time. 
The: announcement came as a Morton Thlokol engineer In Brig­ham City, Utah, said that he and ot­hers argued against launching the: shuttle: In weather far colder than on any previous flight. 
Meanwhile, sources said acting NASA administrator William Graham would announce: today his selection offormer shuttle astronaut Richard Truly as the agency's new shuttle director, replacing jesse Moore, who will leave sooner than expected to become director of the Johnson Space: Center in Houston. Truly has been running the Naval Space Command In Dahlgren, Va. 
Allan McDonald, who has been at Morton Thlokol for 26 years, said his objections were overruled by his boss, j.C. Kilminster, who trans· mined a launch-approval letter to NASA. McDonald said he continued to object to the launch even after the letter arrived at Cape Canaveral. 
McDonald said he feared the low temperatures, which dipped to 24 degrees overnight before the late· 
see NASA, page 5 

Freshman Advisory Council to the 
senate and eliminates one of the 
senators from Grace and Flanner 
halls. 

Under the original proposal, the membership would have consisted of single members from each dorm, with the exception of Grace and Flanner, which would have had two. There also would have been two off-campus senators, with tyhe student body president and vice president as non-voting members. 
"We're giving everybody one senator. Why should they (Grace and Flanner) get two? It's a little in­consistant," said Judith Windhorst, Badin Hall president. 
Flanner Hall Co-President Mark Conces said the original proposal was done to give proportional representation. The proportional representation becomes important when distribution of student government "funds are made, said cabinet member Mike Jaeger. 
The Student Activities Board, which was left out of the original proposal was given a place in the revised proposal. Student Activities Board mamger Lee Broussard said he thought the SAB needed a place in the constitution because of its importance in the campus' social life. 
Maher Mouasher, member of the student government restructuring committee, agreed with Broussard. "The SAB is the major social organizer on campus. It needs to be recognized," he said. 
"I don't thing the SAB should have their own section in the con­stitution. We're trying to streamline things," said Windhorst, disagree­ing with Broussard. I think it should exist under the bylaws," she said. 
In the new constitution, the SAB's purpose is defined to "promote services and social life in the most efficient way possible." 
The new constitution gives the Hall Presidents' Council the power to propose but not adopt a change to the constitution. Under the pro­posed constitution, only three quarters of the senate or two-thirds 
see SENATE, page 4 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1986 
At a glance 
New Constitution Approved By Senate 
• 
Creates Student Senate with one represen­tative from each dorm with class presidents and president of Freshman Advisory Council 

• 
Student body presi­dent has veto power over senate 

• 
Creates six standing committees under senate control: Rules, Finance, Student Activities Board, Campus Life and Student Concerns and Budget 




The Observer !Drew Sandler 

In protest ofNotre Dame's apartheid policy, a Hesburgh's talk last night at Howard titled ·~ 
group of Howard Hall residents built a shack on Christian Appraisal of the Crisis in South Africa." their front lawn last night. The construction was Story below. vrompted by University President Father Theodore 
Students build shack in protest of University's investment policy 
By Bob Musselman 
Senior StaffReporter 
A group of Howard Hall residents took a cue from their Ivy League peers and built a shack on their front lawn last night in protest of Notre Dame's apartheid policy. 
Similar shacks were built on the campus of Dartmouth University last month by students protesting their university's refusal to divest in South Africa. The construction here was prompted by University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's talk last night at Howard titled "A Christian Ap­praisal of the Crisis in South Africa." 
"Subsidized by N.D." was writ­ten on the wood and cardboard shack's front, and "sullivanville" was painted on the side, protesting the standard of living for blacks in the University's adherence tot he South Africa. Sullivan Principles. Banners han­The shack, he said, shows that ging from Howard said "Divest the University's argument is a Now" and "constructive Engage­"mockery," because blacks there ment Continues Enslavement." already experience a low standard 
of living. 

The shack was moved after "I have no qualms with Hesburgh's talk at the request of Hesburgh speaking here. I think Howard rector Father Eugene Gor-it's an honor that he's coming to ski. It was reconstructed near the our dorm," Buckley said. "But statue of Father Sorin. rather than just attend the meeting 
"We feel it was appropriate tore-and leave, we want to make a main neutral," Gorski said. physical display." 
The shcak was reported gone "Hesburgh came here to address from the site at approximately 9:30 apartheid. We're more than happy p.m., by freshman Shawn to address it too," he said. Bushway. Buckley stressed that the ~mall 
A spokesperson for the group group of six or seven students is not that erected the shack, senior Tim affiliated with the Anti-Apartheid Buckley, said the University con-Network, but approves of that tends that' divestitutre would lower groups's work. 

Hesburgh reaffirms stand against divestiture 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Sentor StaffReporter 
Immediate divestment from South Africa Is not necessarily the right thing for Notre Dame to do, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh said last night at Howard Hall's chapel. "The con­tention is whether the only answer is an easy answer of 'divest now.' Hower, I am not sure it's the right thing to do, " said Hesburgh. 
"It is a very popular thing to do · no big problem," said Hesburgh, addressing approximatley 100 people. 
"It could be done before midnight tonight. If the Board of Trustees would decide to divest, I would go along with it, but I would stay awake nights worried about my con­science. 
"If you divest, you wash your hands of the problem," said Hes­burgh, whose address was titled "A Christian Appraisal of the Crisis in South Africa." 
Furthermore, Hesburgh said he had never seen a successful economic boycott except during the American Civil Rights move­ment of the 1960's. Hesburgh added 
Father Theodore Hesburgh 
that every time such economic measures are taken in protest ofcivil injustice people tend to show a lack of confidence in the boycotts' ef­ficacy. 
Throughout his lecture, Hesburgh compared the South African apar· theid situation to the civil rights problems which plagued the United States for approximately three cen­
see HESBURGH, page 4 

-~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 2 

In Brief 
A new campus computer-store should be 
opening up in a few weeks, according to Assistant Vice President for 
Business Affairs James Lyphout. He said the store's operator as well as its location has yet to be determined. Lyphout added that he believed the University Computing Center would be chosen to replace the bankrupt General Micro as the store's operator. Accord­ing to Dean of Engineering and Assistant Provost for Computing Roger Schmitz, administrators are leaning toward locating the new store in the basement of the Computing Center instead of the LaFortune Student Center. -Tbe Observer 
Almost all Hoosiers agree there should 'be laws restricting the distribution ofpornography, but there is far less con­sensus on its effects, according to a poll conducted by Indiana Uni­versity. Of the 815 persons interviewed, 93 percent said there should be laws against the distribution ofpornography, said Jon Mas­land, co-director of the Indiana University Cent~r for Survey Research, which conducts the Indiana Poll twice a year. Fifty per­cent said such laws should apply oniy to persons under 18 years of age; the other 43 percent said the laws should apply to everyone regardless ofage. Oniy 6 percent said there should be no laws forbid­ding the distribution ofpornography, and I percent said they did not know. However, when those interviewed were asked about the ef­fects of pornography, there was not nearly as much certainty. -AP 
Of Interest 
Student Activities Board commissioner applica­tions for publicity, musical entertainment, personnel, special events, calendar, movie, campus entertainment, services, ideas and issues and cultural arts are due today. Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Board office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
The Observer 
Potential candidates for Notre Dame student body president and vice president must attend a mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall.-Tbe Observer 
An Tostal "Shamrock Cafe" is now accepting 
applications for the position ofevent chairman. Ifinterested, please submit a brief description of your qualifications and reasons for ap­plying to the An Tostal office, second floor LaFortune, before tomor­row. -Tbe Observer 
Young Democrats of Noq-e Dame and Saint Mary's will meet tonight at 7 in the tittle Theatre, LaFortune. Topics in­clude primaries and officer elections. Please attend. -Tbe Observer 
Moshe Davis, the Stephen Wise professor in American Jewish History and Institutions and head ofthe Institute for Contem­porary Jewry at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and Robert Handy, the Henry Sloane Coffin professor ofchurch history at Union Theological Seminary, will give a joint lecture titled "America and the Holy Land: The Vocabulary of Understanding and Misun­derstanding," tonight at 8 in the Memorial Library auditorium.-Tbe Observer 
The Joint Engineering Council will elect 
officers for next year on Wednesday. Applications may be obtained in the Engineering dean's office, Room 257 Fitzpatrick Hall of En­gineering, until Monday. No previous experience with the Council is necessary to run for an office. -Tbe Observer 
I Weather 
A slush rush may get your weekend hopping today as rain changing to sleet and snow will glaze your perception. Mostly cloudy skies today, high 39. Continued snow and cold tomorrow. -Tbe Obvserver 



Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler Design Assistant ..... Melissa Warnke Typesetters . ... Mary Ellen Harrington Becky Gunderman Pat Clark Mark Johnson News Editor ....... Mark Pankowski Copy Editor ........ Ann Kaltenbach 

Viewpoinr Copy Editor . .. Julie Collige Features Copy Editor ...... Ed Nolan Features Layout.. ...... Carol Brown ND Day Editor . ......... Tripp Baltz SMC Day Editor ....•. Priscilla Karle AdDesign .......... Joan, Lisa, Jim Photographer ......... Drew Sandler Sports Copy Editor .. Dennis Corrigan 
lbe Observer ( l'SPS ~99 2-4000) i• publish.-d Monday through fridar exn'P' dunn~ exam and vacation periods. lbeObserver is published hr the studentsof the l niver.ilv of Notre Darn<" and Saint Mary's College. Subscription' mar be purcha""d for J W pe~ Y"ar ( Jl<J per S<"mester) by writinglbe Observer, P.O Box Q. :-!<lire Dame. Indiana 
46~~6 
Tbe Ob8erver is a memlxr of lbe Associated Press. All reproduction righ" are 
f'rSI"'"V~d 
Count yourself lucky if you're not one of these statistics 
Tomorrow, thousands ofparents will descend on the Notre Dame campus for the annual Junior Parents' Weekend festivities. Throughout the three days of receptions, dinners, and parties, Notre Dame juniors will have the opportunity to celebrate their affection for and gratitude tO the people who have given them so much. 
In an environment like the Notre Dame community, where parental support and devotion are the norm in family relationships, it is easy to become complacent in the knowledge that loving parents are at the foundation ofour lives. 
But to more than one million children yearly, such nurturing relationships within the family are alien and illusory. These children are the victims ofparental child abuse, both physical and emotional. 
In 1981 alone, 851,000 cases of child abuse -includ­ing 585 fatalities-were reported to child abuse centers, according to a study conducted in 36 states by the American Humane Associa­tion and published in the November 1983 issue of At­

Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 
While violent physical abuse occurs most frequently in poor families, other forms of abuse, primarily sexual and emotional, are less connected with poverty. 
An estimated 44,700 cases of sexual abuse occur in the United States each year, many ofthese in the homes ofcollege-educated professionals. 
Emotional abuse -parental behavior which un­dermines a child's self esteem -is frequently reported in high-and middle-class homes. Parental indifference to their children is also being identified as potentially dan­gerous, causing a condition known as Failure To Thrive 

(FFT). 
lantic magazine. 
FFT occurs when a child 
Although this figure --­
under three simply stops 
represents a 106 percent in­
growing physically and 
becomes listless as a result
crease of reported cases ~ 
of malnutrition or
from 1976, it merely reflects 
"emotional understimula­
the true extent of the ­
problem, because oniy an estimated one in five cases ofchild abuse are reported. 
Of this number, the AHA 
tion." 

"The problem is not one of food costs but maternal attachment," notes Dr. Ric­
continues, 20 percent ofthe ff /~-·~ hard Krugman, director of 
cases can be classified as 
xf

"minor physical injury" ­
!%' 

that involving bruises, welts, / and the effects of shaking. More alarmingly, four per­cent of these reports -in­volving 34,040 children ­are classified as "major physical injury": brain damage, fractures, hemorrhages, poisonings, and burns. 
The perpetrators of this abuse cannot easily be iden­tified by social and economic criteria. Although more than halfofthe reported child abuse cases occur in low­income or welfare supported families, this can be ex­plained by the fact that most low-income families rely on public clinics for medical attention. 
Because staff members of such clinics are trained to identify and report cases of child abuse or neglect, the documented cases in this income group are understan­dablyhigh. 
The private physicians likely to attend to high-and middle-income families, conversely, are less willing to report suspected incidents of abuse to the local aut­horities, according to the Center, creating the ap­pearance that such families are immune from the problem. 
But abuse does occur in higher income families. 

the C. Henry Kempe Na­
~·· ~ 
tional Center for the Preven­
~ ~'l/
~;( ~ I~ tion and Treatment of Child 
~;;~:: { t 
_ Abuse. 

1 10 Compounding the tragedy of child abuse is the protection afforded to 
accused and convicted parents by the American legal system. If a parent kills a child, the final outcome is "not infrequently suspended sentence or a short jail term," reports Atlantic magazine. 
But some encouraging signs that the urgency of the problem is being addressed are surfacing. Parents magazine reports that 16 states, in order to offset recent federal cutbacks in funding of family violence service agencies, have established Children's Trust Funds to further abuse prevention. In 1983, the Justice Depart­ment established a National Task Force on Family Violence to train law enforcement personnel in more effective responses to family crisis. 
Most importantly, communities across the country are educating residents .in identification and preven­tion. If such programs continue to penetrate the con­sciousness of all Americans, not just those immediately affected by the problem, all children might begin to ex­perience the familial security that we at Notre Dame take for granted. 
Student Government 
is ••• 

Questions? Comments? Concerns? Call239-7668 
Put your degree 
to work 
where it can do 
a world of good 
' 

Your first job after graduation should offer more than just a paycheck. 
If you're graduating this year, look into a unique opportunity to put your degree to work where it can do a world of good. Look into the Peace Corps. 
Register now for interviews, Tues. & Wed., Feb. 25th & 26th at the Placement Office Memorial Library. 
The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986-page 3 
' 
Saint Mary's Programming Board offers solutions to hall's 'problem' 


By MARILYN BENCHIK 
StaffReporter 
The Saint Mary's Programming Board offered a possible solution to LeMans Hall's apparent lack of stu· dent participation in hall sponsored activities at last night's meeting. 
"Right now it is hard to have good participation due to the dorm being so large. Splitting the dorm into east and west wings might break down the communication problem," said Liz Meehan, LeMans Hall vice presi· dent. 
Ann Marie Khan, Regina Hall vice president, offered some additional 
;· 
advice on addressing the problem. 
"I think what we need is to have one president of the dorm in order to keep the unity spirit, and then add a second vice president," Khan said. "These vice presidents could work on the communication problem. 
"We could add a second athletic commissioner, or double other posi­tions that need two people in order to do a job well," she said. 
According to Jeanne Heller, stu­dent body vice president, the final 
The hardest thing about break~ ·ng into professional 1usic is-well. hreak~ ing into professional 
usic. So if you're x)king for an oppor~ unity to turn your 
· 1talent into 
full~time perform~ 
ing career. take a x)d l<x)k at the rmy. 
It's not ll parades 
·md.John Philip )USa. Army nds rock, 
.IItz and h<x)gic swell as march. they perform 'concertau~ icnccs as well 
suggestion, which will be submitted by the Programming Board on the LeMans Hall problem, will be to In­itiate a second vice president posi­tion or to institute a communication commissioner as an added option. 
St. Patrick's Day events were also discussed at the meeting last night. 
"I would rather have people get­ting safe rides," said Heller, "than try to do something on campus that wouldn't be successful." 
Heller said that three possible op­tions existed for transporting stu­dents from the bars back to the campus. 
One alternative would be to hire a driver service, she said. Memorial Hospital's Pathways Center coor­dinates this service through a local cab company at Christmas and New Year's. 
"Other alternatives include working through the alumnae to help out or to have Transpo pick people up. The alumnae may get a kick out ofit," added Heller. 
Sophomore Class Vice President Colleen Dowd said "a bus would be a better choice because people will be able to see it since they tend to be more eye-catching than a cab." 
Also discussed by the board last night was The Little Sister's Weekend, planned for March 7,8 and 9. ' 
Heller said people should be en· couraged to sign up for the weekend, adding that registrations are due by March 3. 
Heller also announced two mec­hanics seminars to be offered on April9 from 4:30-5:30 p.m. and ';:30­6:30p.m. 
"I have no idea of how long each seminar will take. These sessions will take place outside on the 
I.eMans side of the dining hall," she said. "Topics such as the basics ofcar care and how to change a tire will be discussed," she added. 
Heller also said several chairman positions were open for An Tostal events. These include chairmen for the picnic, the beer tents, and the Mr. Campus event. She added that all of these activities are scheduled for April 23, Thirsty Thursday at Saint Mary's. 

College set to offer art scholarships 
ByCINDYHAU 
News Staff 
Two scholarships will be offered to art majors at Saint Mary's ne:ft fall, according to Sister Cecilia Ann Kelly, professor ofart at Saint Mary's. 
The two awards, The Theresa Ann 
McLaughlin Art Award and The Saint
Passerby views trees wrapped in painted sheets to create a work 
Mary's College Art Talent Award, are
entitled "thought Totems" in Harvard Yard in Cambridge, Mass., 
distributed "based upon the out­
Tuesday as part of the university's Festival of Life program to 
standing ability and the financial
benefit AIDS research. Artist Carole Bolsey says the work 
need of the applicants," she said. note and remeber. " 
represents planted staffs with reminders for all "to beware, take 
According to Kelly, the Theresa Ann McLaughlin Art Award will be 
of40 performances a month, there's also the opportunity for travel-not only across America, but possibly abroad. 
Most important, you can expect a first~rate pro~ fessional environment from your instructors, facilities and fellow musicians. The Army 
has educational 
pro~rrams that can help you pay for off~ 

duty instruc~ 
tion, and if you qual~ ifv, even 
help you repay your federally~insured student loans. Ifyou can-sight~ 
offered for the first time next fall. It is valued at $1,000 and is available to incoming freshmen only, she said. Funds for this award are a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Robert McLaughlin in honor of their daughter, a Saint Mary's graduate, Kelly added. 
"Recipients are selected upon satisfying the requirements for col­lege admission and recommenda­tion by the faculty after her portfolio has been reviewed," Kelly said. 
The Saint Mary's College Art Talent Awards have been offered to students at all four levels ofstudy for 


Queen's Castle 
&The Knights 
$5student $8.50 cvmplet cut style 
MINUTES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women Included tool 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Canter Sea a tan In minute• ...Not Hour. lro-• St. Road 23 Acrou From Martln'•l 

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
• v~,.tanM o1 lhol Di.lwe FOODS SHJIWRhfA • MUOilDii:RA -BABA GHii:NOliJ HOM MUS· Fli:LAFii:L Tli:BBOULt SAI.AD 

SOUTH BEND • LEBAI'I,Ii:SB STYU: 
• Pit• Sll4t~d Salldwldtu GYROS 
• D~liflotful Pa•lrifl • Tur~i.lo Colfr• 288-5639 
Tu•• -Sal 5:30PM -9:30PM COMPLETE CATBifiNG FOR 838 Portage
PARTIES ol BANQUET~ 


IOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
With this Coupon 
GOFROMCO~GE~THE­
WITHOUT MISSING A BEAt 

read music, performing in the could be your big break. Write: Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216~5005. Orcall toll free l~SOO~USA~ARMY. 
the past two years, Kelly said. 
These renewable awards are valued at $500 each. No specific number of these awards are dis­tributed as "they are available on the basis ofthe amount ofmoney funded by the school and the number of qualified applicants," Kelly said. 
"As with other scholarships and financial aid, the student must dis­play need for the award," Director of Financial Aid judith Casey said. 
"Because a freshman is eligible for both awards, she can cause a sig­nificant change in the make-up of her financial package with these awards," Casey said. She went on to say, however, that since the awards are of monetary value, "they are also very beneficial to art majors at allot­her class levels." 
In addition to submitting a finan­cial aid form, the student must submit a portfolio, Kelly said. She added that the portfolio must be comprised of I 0 original works which show an ability in drawing, color and design, painting, printmaking, three dimensional form and any other specific interests she may have. 
The priority date deadline to apply for these scholarships Is March 
l. Students will be notified ofaccep­tance for an award during the spring semester. 
Any questions regarding these awards can be addressed to the art department at Saint Mary's. 
Corrections 
Because ofan editingerror, the title of the CLC was incorrect in yesterday's front page story. The correct title ofthe organization is the Campus Life Council. Also, Tuesday's article on senior Carl Gebo gave an incorrect spelling for the location of an rmy junior summer camp. The correct spell­ing is Fort Lewis, Wash. 
Also, the authors of Saint Mary's new Christian Life Com­mission proposal were incor­rectly stated in a Board of Governance article yesterday. The CLC proposal will be jointly drawn up by Campus Ministry and the Board of Governance 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECTS FOUNDATION­
SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT 
dp
BIRTH DEFECTS 
ARMY BAND. 

BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 
~---------------~ 
------~-----------------------------­
-------___..., 
The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 4 

Yellow Submarine 

Three vehicles are inundated by flood water in brought heavy rains and high winds to Northern Guerneville, Calif., after a severe Pacific storm California. 
Such a solution is better than a ballgame and use whatever in­revolution in which millions of fluence I can. 
Desburgh 
people could be killed, Hesburghcontinuedfrom page 1 said. Apartheid "is not a question that's tnries until the passage of the Civil going to go away," he said. "It's a Rights Act of 1964. Hesburgh also answered a ques­moving stream, not a question on 
"Our country practiced apartheid tion about the value of symbolic which anyone's got the last word. for the first 300 years after the ar­gestures, which although they may One has to stay on top of the situa­rival of slaves. And we didn't get rid not be effective in changing the con­tion and reassess his opinion every of it 200, or 100, or even 50 years dition of the oppressed blacks, at day. ago," Hesburgh said. "The effect of least demonstrate a sense ofconcern apartheid on the American black for the problem. "Whatever I do about it will be was the same as the effect on the characterized by being Christian, by South African black today." "Symbolic gestures are over five being just, and by being intelligent. 
The most significant response to minutes after they happen and the But 1 am not sure that giving up all racial injustice in this country, said symbolism doesn't last very long," investment is an act of virtue. I am Hesburgh, was the civil dis­he said. "While I do believe in sym­not sure whether all the wisdom lies obedience demonstrated in the 13 bolism, especially religious sym­in the battle cry of 'divest now,' " southern states most seriously af­bolism, I prefer to stay in the Hesburgh concluded. fected by the racial discrimination. 
year instead of a new system every year," he said. 
Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 

of the voting student body can adopt an amendment to the con­stitution. 
During the discussion of the bylaws, the question arose as to whether or not student government should go on the University's unit budget system. In the proposed bylaws, the restructuring commit­tee suggested that student govern­ment go on the system. 
The senate eventurally delayed action on t)le issue by removing the use of the University budget system from the proposed bylaws. 
Committee on Restructuring Chairman Brian Holst said during the debate that "the reason we put it in was because it was a positive thing." 
"We didn't understand the issue or the ramifications. We just put it in as a suggestion," Holst said. 
Broussard said he thought stu­dent government should go on the system. "With the system, you would have the same system every 
Although the senate removed the use of the University budget system from the porposed bylaws, it will study the system in ther near future and will be able to amend the bylaws at any time. 
A snag in the approval of the constitution occurred as the vote was about to be taken two hours in­to the meetin. Senators Chris Abood and John Ginty were not present at the meetin but had left proxies in their place that allowed them to vote for approval of the amendments to the proposed con­stitution. 
As the vote was about to be taken, Student Body President Bill Healy pointed out that under the rules of the senate, proxy votes don not count. 
Many senate members became upset at Healy for delaying the vote. 
Eventurally, Ginty was summon­ed from his bed where he was recovering from the flu and Abood from the fourth floor of the library and the new constitution was ap­proved. 
TONIGHT, Feb. 20, 6,8,10pm 75t FRIDAY, Feb. 21, 6,8,10,12pm 

Such acts of civil disobedience in­cluded bus-boycotts, sit-ins and pray-ins. 
Hesburgh called for a similar response to apartheid in South Africa in lieu offoreign divestment. 
"If all the blacks and coloreds in South Africa would say, 'We aren't going to work tomorrow' and would boycott stores, this procedure would probably work in a few weeks. Doing that is one thing, but pulling out a few companies won't have much effect," he said. 
Hesburgh predicted that in the wake of large-scale divestment by American companies and univer­sities the business of departing American companies would be bought up by other foreign countries such as Japan and Korea, countries which he said have lit1ie regard for the existence of apar­theid. 
"Is that a victory?" he asked. 

Answering his own question, Hes­burgh said he doubted that that 
would be much of a victory over apartheid. Rather, he said, the im­portance of "staying in and making the struggle with wha~ little leverage we have. The process we're engaged in hasn't really affected the market place but divestment would actually have a bad effect." 
"The only answer I could come up with would be quixotic," Hesburgh said. "If I could play God, I would put a map (of South Africa) on the wall, take a red pencil, put on a blindfold, and make a north-south slash down the middle. 
"I would hope to cut it into two parts, one twice as big as the other. I would then give blacks the larger part and give whites the smaller part," he said. 
Continuing this hypothetical divi­sion of land, Hesburgh emphasized the need ofresidents ofboth areas to work in concert to eliminate in­jusUqe. He said that both parts sepaJ~tely would be worthless until the respective residents worked together and exercised true equality. 

~*******************************************************************~ 
i * SEX i * 
* * 
~ IS NOT INCLUDED BCJT... ~ 
I s)(atif\9 * Hot * p.J. I 1 ~ * Chocolate * ! 
* ~ provided at ACC Ice Rink :* ~ Thursday Feb. 20, 8-10:15 ! * *
* * 
~ A STUD-ENT ACTIVITIES BOARD PRODUCTION ;
* *
********************************************************************* 
The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 5 

Hitting the bars 
Seven-year-old Vincent Torquati of Bargaintown, N.J., poses beside an extra large pure milk chocolate Hershey bar while tour­ing the Great American Chocolate Festival with his family in Her­

shey, Pa. 
...$5. 
Right now, you can get the 
hearty THURSDAY THICK 
ONE for only five bucks! 
A thick 12" pizza with 
pepperoni, double cheese 
and extra thick crust and we 
guarantee delivery in less 
than 30 minutes. So call 
Domino's Pizza and ask for 
the THURSDAY THICK 
ONE. 
Our drivers carry less than 
$20.00. Llm1ted delivery area. No 
coupon necessary 

Newspaper executive assassinated 
Allllociatrd Press 
GLENDALE, Calif. -An ex­ecutive of the Phillippine News, a newspaper opposed to the regime of Ferdinand Marcos, was shot to 
death  at  home  yesterday  after  
receiving  a  threatening  note,  
authorities said.  

Several shots were fired in Oscar Salvatierra's bedroom at his single­story home in the foothills north of downtown Los Angels, said police Sgt. Randy Tampa. 
''The preliminary report in­dicated that the man (assassin l went through the window, that he shot Salvatierra in the head and then he locked the door (to the bedroom). That was the mark of a professional killer," said Philippine News editor-publisher Alex Esclamado. 
An unexploded bomb was discovered July 8 at the newspaper's Los Angeles office, said police officer Willie Wilson. 
Larry Zabala, press attache to the Philippine Consulate in Los Angeles, said, "We are terribly distressed over this. We have known Salvatierra for a long while and have had friendly relations with him" despite his anti-Marcos position. 
"We urge local authorities to find those responsible for his death and bring them to justice," Zabala said. 
· Aides to Sen. Alan Cranston, a longtime friend of Philippine News publisher Alex Esclamado, said the FBI has been asked to protect Esclamado and other News ex­ecutives who had received similar 
threats. Cranston said he was 

taking ·' 
The Observer 
The independent student newspaper 
serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is 
accepting applications for the following positions: 
1986-87 Business Manager and Managing Editor 
Applications must be submitted to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Friday, February 21, 1986. 
The Observer 3rd floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 


• l D~rmr, le111n1•
• 
• frlllllr IMIIJIIDil 

f•~rii!IIJ!rf 2 u, uIll 

1:00 IJ).IIIJIJ. •
• '"•ug11111111 v. 
lp•m~•riDt•cll!l••t•l 

-IIID l1co uUU -----­IPIDIP G!DfrtDIPIIDIIJit.GIDID CIIJUI 111-71111 
seriously suspicions that agents of the Marcos government were in­volved in the death. 
"What Marcos has done to his country is criminal. He must not be permitted to export his criminal ac­tivities to this country," the senator said. 
The newspaper published a 1982 story that said Marcos wore fake medals and that $9 million had been offered to Esclamado to cease publication, said Ben Aniceto, Los Angeles editor for the News. 
Salvatierra's elderly mother, who speaks no English, was in the house, about 10 miles north of downtown Los Angeles, and called police after she heard gunshots, Tamoa said. 
NASA 
continuedfrom page 1 
morning launch, would cause syn· thetic rubber safety seals between segments of the booster rocket to shrink and become ineffective. 
Such a failure has been cited as a likely cause of the accident. 
Morton Thiokol, through :;pokes· man Thomas Russell in Chicago, conceded that its engineers were against the launch initially on jan. 27, the day before the ill-fated launch. 
But Russell said that "at a subse· quent time in the early evening, after considering some additional In· formation, Morton Thiokol was In a position to recommend a launch." 
He declined to say what the In· formation was or whether the deci· sion was made over the objections ofsome Morton Thiokol engineers. 
The commission's statement made it clear, however, that there was considerable dissent from the decision. It said: 
"At the session on Feb. 14 at Ken· nedy Space Center, in very active quel'!tioning of NASA officials and Thiokol representatives, the com· mission learned that although a Telefax was later received from Thlokol indicating approval of the launch, a number of engineers at Thiokol still strongly urged against the launch. 
"It was further learned that at least three key NASA officials had not been notified and did not know of the recommendation ofThlokol not to launch or the events leading up to Thiokol's change of mind as reflected in the Telefax of Monday evening." 
"That's the shocker, that they (the launch team) did not have the in· formation you would normally ex· pect them to have," the commission member said. 




2n-21s1 

1835 South Bend Ave. Plaza 23 Center 
~. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 

DEUVERS~ -4 FREE. q 

~~~1·---~UPER KEG SALE----. 
$31.88
r Choice: Bud -Bud Lite Strohs-Oid Milwaukee 
CORKTOWNE 
~~!!!!fzv~~ 
Sr.te K~""23, ~ "'lie Wt.$t ofMartin's Supermarlcet 
~ m~­



The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 6 


ironwood liauors 
1 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH BEND. INDIANA 46635 
,2191272-7144 



APPboto
Revolt of the desks 

The floor oftwo classrooms on the second floor of this week at all Lanesboro schools as officials Lanesboro High School in Lanesboro, Minn., col­decide on where to hold classes. lapsed early Saturday. School has been cancelled 
Radiation Lab receives $3 million 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's Radiation Laboratory received $3,302,000 last month from the U.S. Department of Energy in annual operational costs for the laboratory's continued research in radiation chemistry. 
Funded by the DOE and operated by Notre Dame scientists, the laboratory has conducted basic research into the effects ofradiation upon matter since the late 1940s. 
In addition to the DOE funds for the Radiation Laboratory, the Uni­versity received ·an additional S112,006 in grants during January for support ofresearch, facilities and equipment, instructional programs and other projects. Additional research funds totaled S654,477 in­cluding: 
• 
$279,018 from the National In­stitutes ofHealth for research on the vector competence of Aedes triseriatus mosquitoes by George Craig, Clark professor biological sciences. 

• 
S60,290 from the Ully Endow­ment, Inc. for a study of Catholic theological education by Jay Dolan, associate professor of history and 


Bredk out of your shell 
(!~,Q~·.
f>e d<uing and enjoy as little or as much as you like from the Wharfs star-studded menu. It's a new way to dine that lets you select a little or a lot of all your favorites. 
f DISTINGUISHED STUDENT 
~ AWARD 
-tc 
~ The Notre.Da111e Alu111nl Association wlll.,eaeeeptlna no•lnatl... 
~ frolll Fe.,rua~ 14•38 for the Sth annual Dlstlnaulshed atudent 
• Award. The DlstlnautshedStudentAwardwaser•tedtohonor•• ~ 0.utstandlnaseniorstudentat the Unlverslt~ •ased on thefollowlnl
f erlterla: 
'?' 
f-tt 1) Service to Notre Dame, 
'?' h d 
2) Service to t e Community' an ' .f~ 3) Good Academic Standing. . 
Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on 
~ the second floor of the Administration Building, The Centerfor ~ Social Concerns" and at Campus Ministry Office in the ~ Memorial Library ~ Nominations must be submitted to the Association by F••· 38, !986. 
director of the Cushwa Center for the Study ofAmerican Catholicism. 
• 
S50,200 from the National Science Foundation for research on the theory of several complex variables by Wilhelm Stoll, professor ofmathematics. 

• 
S46,799 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion for research on separated regions near the leading edge ofair­foils by Thomas Mueller, professor aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing and director for engineering research and graduate studies. 

• 
S42,000 from NASA for the study of materials development of electri­cal contacts for beta-silicon by Mary Zeller, professional specialist in the College of Engineering, and William Berry, professor of electrical en­gineering. 

• 
$30,000 from the Sandia National Laboratory for research on transmis· sion electron microscopy of corro­sion fatigue by Richard Ricker, assistant professor of metallurgical engineering and materials science. 

• 
Sl2,670 from the Argonne Uni­versity Trust Fund for collaborative resear~h with Notre Dame 


physicists on a gamma ray facility. 
• S8,500 from the Environmental Protection Agency for the installa· tion of a mainframe retrieval and analysis program by Ronald Hellen­thal, associate professor of biologi­cal sciences. 
Awards for facilities and equipment totaled $80,900, includ­ing S50,000 from the National Science Foundation for high energy physics equipment and $30,900 from the Apple Computer Co., Inc. for equipment in the management department. 
Service programs of the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry received $21,456 from private benefactors. 
Awards for instructional programs consisted of a S9,050 Fulbright Award from the Council for International Exchange of Scholars for Associate Professor Sonia Gernes' visiting professorship at the University of Waikato, New Zealand. 
for graduate student travel. 
•u~ no CXJuOt\ atx)u( I( -yOJt 
aonaroon mates a 
()fference rne ()lference be­tween j tJOV INC!· 

ng i ramal. act..e ~le ~ benQ ifl ""'ala These boy\ have a DIOOO O>le~ CilleCI llemOClllllla. wn.cn somotv means rh.lr rne.r DIOOO a<n>r cror ov •N!II rnev prev>OU\IV reo i prer rv lllelrerea ~le oecau~e rnev cOUIO 01eeo to rleim from a mra fl\IV rooav rnev can oe trearea Wltn i ciO!rng fact~ rh.lr rne.r CMn oo:11es oonotpr~e 
And that clotting faCtor IS taken frOm the plaSma you donate. 
HOw much plasma IS needed? A 10!. Fa example. one 

..gQowe~m ~n aQQ occogiong_" 
Come 1n and ·Browse 327 Lincolnway 232-3354 

4609 Grape Road 
J.M.S. Plaza Mishawaka 

Nowsennng ~~o
"-'r­

Pbzas,sandanches 
call 277-5680 
Live music Fri & Sat No Cover 
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
Plasma IS rne loQuoa .n wn.cn 01000 ct'll'; atP rr ans· POll eel Appi'Oa<ma!PIV hall of 01000 IS OlaSma TtlP DIOOO '""' atP ~rarea from vour p&asma at rne 
OClJ'()( center ov a process caoreo poavnapne,..,s.s aro 
rerurneo to vwrooov 
Tne f)laVna taken from vour 01000 IS aDC>.Jt 9N m.nerars ana warer. rrost of rtlP rem.moer IS IJI'Ote.fl\ II IS lhese 1)1'0· 
tl.'lll'> char are UleCI ro 
·~--"~~ 
~aleS~"'~~ 

********************************************•••••••**~ 

~i~~~_()__i_lt___t________________Th_ur-sda-y,_Fe-bru_~
__2o_,19-86---pa-ge_7 
Better communication needs to take place at ND 
As I was reading last week's Observer ar­ticle on the feasibility of coed dorms, I came across a comment made by Father Beauchamp which really aggravated me. Beauchamp stated students wouldn't want coed dorms and this is why there hasn't been any serious discussion on the matter. He said he's "not convinced that students . . . would want coeducational dorms." Beauchamp added, "It is not my impression ... that that's a big issue among students. If push comes to shove, they really wouldn't want them." My question is how does Beauchamp know students really wouldn't want coeducational donns? 
Jim Fenton 
guest column 
The Observer specifically stated Beauc­hamp was only giving his personal opinion and not speaking for the University, but being a high-ranking University official, his personal opinion, nevertheless, carries an impact. On this issue, Beauchamp only seems to be guess­ing as to what the students think about coed dorms, and it is this type of mind-reading by the administration which epitomizes the com­munication difficulties that plagued the campuses. 
The primary issue here is not whether there will be coed dorms in the future, but whether there will even be a discussion about them at all. If the administration believes that it al­ready knows how the students feel about an issue, then why should it even bother to ask. The administration is, unfortunately, not in touch with the student body enough to know how we would respond. Ifthe administration would just ask us, it just might be surprised how rational and conservative our views ac­tually are. 
Notre Dame has some of the most highly intelligent and creative students in the world, yet the administration fails to recognize their ability to generate constructive ideas. By not listening to or communicating with the stu­dents, the administration is suggesting we are not even capable of adult rational discussion. The administration is isolating itself from the very reason for its existence -the student body. 
After having so . little substantive com­munication for so long, students could cite several examples of the administration's deaf­ness but that would be unnecessary and cer­tainly redundant. 
Specifically though, the inefficiency of the student government is a simple result of the unwillingness of the administration to properly cooperate with the student body. 
One ofthe main goals ofthis University is to teach its students to think logically and creatively, yet the administration seems to make most ofthe decisions for us. The Univer­sity is not fostering independence and intel­ligent thought by assuming all responsibility. There is always more than one point ofview in any discussion, however, the administration continually makes decisions based on only one point ofview -its own. 
In many instances, the administration is in the best position to make these decisions, but that still does not mean it has the only posi­tion with which to view a problem. There is much room for improvement in communica­tion and for the consideration of other opinions by the administration. 
Whenever problems arise about the school, there is inevitably a narrow-minded in­dividual who comments, "Well, if you don't like it, leave." While this remarkmight be true in principle, it is sad to think there is no room for constructivecriticism here at Notre Dame. 
Fortunately, improvements are beginning to occur, which represents a hope for a better future for Notre Dame. For instance, in 1987, the male/female ratio will begin to even out, the new student center will be finished and the Student Activities Board will have an in­creased budget for events. These improve­ments should help to reduce the social disillusionment which is very prevalent on campus, but more needs to be done in this respect. 
Many individuals blame parietals, the male/female ratio or the alcohol policy for this disillusionment, but the dissatisfaction of the students is actually more of a result of poor communication and lack of students' rights. 
I love Notre Dame despite its difficulties and I have enjoyed my four years here be­cause of the many great people I have met. Since I do care for Notre Dame, I am con• cerned with dangerous comments which pretend to show an understanding of the feelings ofstudents. 
To second-guess an intelligent student body is not only to waste talent but to jeopardize the future success of the entire University. No school can be perfect but I ap­plaud the administration's attempt to make Notre Dame a "truly great University." I do not believe, however, our University will ever become "truly great" until listening and reasoning replace hypothetical administrative assumptions. 
jim Fenton is a senior pre-professional major at Notre Dame. 
Traffic ticket nets ND Security 'Pest of the Year' 
Though the second semester is less than two months old, I am already prepared to make my Pest ofthe Year Award. I present this award annually to the person or organization that insists on ticking me off the most. To give you some idea of the scope of this award, two years ago it went to the writers and supporters of the now infamous alcohol policy for their incredible lack of insight into the campus drinking problem. Last year it went to Gerry Faust who managed to screw up the football team all four years I was here. 
Mike Wilkins here, there, and back 
This year, however, the winner ofthe award is an especially prestigious organization. lbough this group has done nothing to compare with my two previous winners, it has still managed to get under my skin and annoy a number of my classmates and even a few faculty members as well. This group even managed to beat out Ticket Manager Mike Bobinski, head of the Pond Scum section at the basketball games, who did such a wonder­ful job with basketball ticket distribution. This year's winner is Notre Dame Security and more specifically, those responsible for es­tablishing the parking policy around here. 
Monday, I was the honored recipient of a "Traffic Violation Citation" courtesy of this year's Pest of the Year Award recipient. if you'll recall, Sunday we had a pretty mean ice storm and Monday the parking lots were a mess. Well, since it was cold and icy outside, and since I was running a little late and since this is the cold and flu season I decided to park in the pay lot behind the CCE instead ofin the lot behind the stadium. 
I pulled up to the gate, paid my 75 cents and took advantage of the shon walk into the Law 
Doonesbury 
School. But when J came back out in the after­noon, my car, along with five of the other 11 cars in that lot at the time, had a ticket on it. The ticket explained that I had parked in a reserved lot and that I now owed the Univer­sity 10 bucks. 
Now, I've had other tickets in my four and a half years here, but this one is especially an­noying. According to the Schedule of Fines conveniently listed on the back of the ticket, this citation puts me in the same class of har­dened criminals as those who drive or park on the lawn or sidewalk and those who exceed the speed limit. lam not considered as serious an offender as those who get busted for reck­less driving ( S25) or for parking without a sticker ( S50 ), but I am a more serious of­fender than those who park in a fire lane ( S5 ). 
Worse than my newly expanded criminal record, though, is the fact that there was no indication that I could not park in that lot. The only sign posted on this particular lot is one that states that people who park there after 8 
a.m. on home football Saturdays will be towed away. It appeared to me that anybody who wanted to invest 75 cents in a parking place was more than welcome to do so. 
Well, it turns out that quite a few other stu­dents and even some faculty members thought the same thing. According to the very nice lady in the Traffic Violations office, about a dozen students and faculty members have ftled appeals for tickets they received for parking in that lot in the last two weeks. In addition, I know of several others who paid similar tickets, either because they were too late to file an appeal or because they just didn't bother. 
The explanation for why l can't park my car in the CCE lot but why my mom, or Gerry Faust or some slug off the streets can park there is that I paid money at the beginning of the school year to park in a student lot and that's where I belong. The CCE lot is intended only for visitors to campus and students are 
allowed to park only in designated student 
parking lots. Somewhere logic is lacking in 
this explanation. 
I know the CCE hosts meetings and semi­nars that often involve a fairly large number of people. However, the metered lot can hold 92 cars and it is rarely even half full. Those same students who pay their money at the begin­ning of the school year often have to park clear back by Senior Bar, leaving them a longer walk from their cars to their clas­srooms than the drive from their apartments to the parking lot. Surely there's room in the lot for those few students and faculty mem­bers each day who decide for whatever reason that they'd rather pay an additional 75 cents for the better parking space. After all, their 75 cents is worth just as much as anybody else's. 
So, what can the students and faculty who like to use that lot do? First ofall, appeal your tickets. All tickets can be appealed through the Traffic Violations office in the Administra­tion Building. Tickets must be appealed wit­hin seven days. Ifyourwritten appeal fails, you have the right to appear before the appeals board and make an appeal in person. A good idea would also be to write directly to the Director of Security and explain to him the situation and ideas for a better parking policy. 
I would also recommend continuing to park in the CCE lot if you feel the need to do so. I know tickets are Sl 0, but I think you have a good case on appeal since the lot is un­marked. If we can get a number of people in­volved in the appeal process, maybe we can convince those who decide this kind of thing to reconsider the parking policy for the metered CCE lot or at the very least to post signs explaining exactly when we can and cannot park there. Ifyou have gotten a ticket in the metered lot or do get one in the future, I'd appreciate it if you would drop me a line and let me know. I'd like to send Security a letter with as many signatures on it as I can get recommending possible changes in the 
Garry Trudeau 

packing policy for that lot. Send ideas and 
comments to me at the law school (Box W). 
. Finally, l have two other suggestions for 
those of you who are more daring. First, take 
your sticker off your car whenever you want 
to park in that lot. Sometimes they'll just stick 
back on when you want to park in your as­
signed lot again. If they don't, just tape them 
back to the window. The guys writing tickets 
frown on this but then again we frown on the 
guys writing the tickets, too. Besides, how are 
they going to tell? 
My last suggestion is to be used only if you lose your appeal. Wait as long as you want to pay your ticket. Let the folks in Security orStu­dent Accounts or whoever collects delin­quent traffic fines send you a couple ofnotices just to give them something to do. Pay before finals start, but delay for awhile just for the fun of it. Then, when you do pay, only pay S9.25. After all, you paid your 75 cents to get into the lot to begin with. Ifyou're going to have to pay a fine for parking there, the least you can do is get your money back. Maybe ifenough people do this, Security will be making their own Pest ofthe Year Award this year. 
Mike Wilkins is a Notre Dame law student and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
The Viewpoint Department P.O. Box Q 

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Quote of the day 


"What we think is less than what we know: what we know is less than what we love: what we love is so much less than what there is; and to this precise extent. we are much less than what we are." 
R.D.Laing (1927-) "The Politics ofExperience" 

~i~~~_()__i__Jl__t_________________Th_u_~_da-y,_&_bru_~
__zo_,1_98-6--pa-ge-8 
P.O. Box Q 
Do not quickly judge Rice by his SAT scores 
DearEditor: 
In my opinion, Notre Dame would not be 
lowering its standards if it admitted Tony 
Rice, the football senior who scored 640 on 
the SAT. To those who feel otherwise, let me 
point out a few things. First, the SAT is not a 
completely accurate judge of a student's 
ability to do well in college. Contrary to what 
many of you believe, the test is geared for 
middle-to-upper class students who attend 
good high schools in nice suburbs. The test is 
prepared by teachers and other professionals 
who have already received fine educations. 
They do not design the test to include street 
talk or other language usually found in the in­
ner city. Nor do they use language common in 
much of the South. They use language com­
mon in the homes of well-educated parents. 
How well would you do if you had to take a 
test designed by someone in the inner city for 
inner city students? Probably not as well as 
you did on the SAT that you had sent to Notre 
Dame to gain admittance. Now, it doesn't mat­
ter whether or not Rice is from the inner city. 
That's not my point. My point is that some 
people are at a distinct disadvantage when 
they take the test. Maybe he was one ofthem. 
Some of you may say that it really doesn't 
matter who designed the test and that a stu­
dent should receive at least an 800 (or any 
other number) ifthey are to be accepted here. 
Let me pass on a little information. I went to a 
public high school with many inner city 
youths. Three such youths were excellent ath­
letes in their respective sports. They had 
cumulative GPAs of 2.3, 2.4 and 2.6. Their SAT 
scores were 790, 770 and 810. Very low, 
right? 
The first is now attending Columbia Univer­sity and currently has a 2.7 GPA. The second is attending Dartmouth College and has a 3.0 GPA. The third is attending Brown University and is holding down a 2.6 GPA. It's true the only reason they were admitted was because they were athletes, but these are respectable grade point averages at fine academic institu­tions. In fact, those institutions are more strin­gent in their entrance requirements than Notre Dame. I do not believe any of the Ivy League schools can be accused of lowering their standards. Maybe they looked beyond grades and SAT scores, and saw outstanding young men. 
The point I am trying to make is not to judge someone academically solely on the basis of SAT scores. Perhaps Rice was up late with a sick friend the night before the exam, or maybe he just "choked." (Has anyone out there just frozen on a test?) Or perhaps he was like another friend of mine. This young man had a 2.4 GPA and scored 540 on his SAT. He was an excellent athlete (he won the mile and two-mile runs in the California State Track Meet as a junior and senior) who got accepted to USC. Right now, his GPA is 3.2. You see, the reason he scored so low on his SAT and had such a low GPA was because he was an illegal alien who had to work 70 hours a week be­cause he was his family's sole source of income. He paid for the food and rent for his family (consisting of 13 brothers and sisters). 
juggled his time pretty well, didn't he? 
All I'm trying to say is not to judge someone in an academic sense so quickly, because he may surprise you. I'm not saying whether or not I think 640 is low. Indeed it is. However, I am saying that it would not lower the stan­dards at Notre Dame ifhe were admitted. Life is more than just GPAs and SATs. Ifhe does not have other fine qualities worthy of Notre Dame, then he shouldn't be admitted. 
However, if he is admitted, I hope he doesn't find out how he was nearly cast out before he had even arrived. He knows Notre Dame is tough academically, and I'm sure he believes he can handle it. Otherwise he would have gone somewhere else. just give him a chance. 
Nick Sparks Flanner Hall 
'Intellectual snobbery' 
lessens quality of ND 
DearEditor: 

We would like to respond to a pair ofitems 
in the Feb. 1 7 Viewpoint section regarding the 
admission of Tony Rice. Before we do so, 
however, we would like to point out that it is 
wrong to make public the academic scores of 
Rice or any other candidate for admission into 
Notre Dame. Imagine the incredible obstacles 
that will face Rice if he does in fact choose to 
attend school here. It will be impossible for 
him to escape the label of "dumb jock" that 
has already been placed upon him. 
The point that both Terry Kibelstis and 
Patricia O'Connor seem to make is that stu­
dents at Notre Dame are somehow better than 
Rice because they have achieved higher 
scores on the SAT, and that the acceptance of 
Rice would make our community worse off 
than it is now. Kibelstis writes that "the accep­
tance of a ridiculously underqualified can­
didate compromises the community." She has 
no right to say that Rice would make this com­
munity any worse off on the sole basis of his 
academic record. It is very likely that Rice has 
many other attributes that would be to the 
benefit of the Notre Dame community and he 
should be given the opportunity to 
demonstrate those attributes. 
It is ironic to find this sort of academic 
prejudice while Notre Dame is in the midst of 
fighting against prejudices of other sorts. It is 
this intellectual snobbery rather than the ac­
ceptance of Rice which stands to lessen the 
quality ofthe Notre Dame community. 
Matthew]. Glaser Nicholas S. Herdegen Stanford Hall 
Those moving next year must be aware of theft 
DearEditor: 

As residents of South Bend's northeast 
neighborhood, we have enjoyed a full 
semester of off-campus living and all the 
freedoms that one associates with it. While 
these freedoms have often been the cause of 
celebration, events have taken place in the 
past several months that engenderconcern on 
the part of many students living in this area; 
that is, a startling rise in the frequency of off­
campus crime. 

The off-campus crime situation has been to­
tally ignored by The Observer, the principle 
medium through which students could be 
alerted to this disturbing problem. It is with 
the intention of warning those who plan to 
move "off' next year that this letter is written. 
The scope ofthis problem is easy to depict. 
Burglariesofhouses and apartments, as well as 
thefts ofcar stereos, are widespread. The aut­
hors ofthis letter have each been victims, and 
can readily think of at least 20 other separate 
instances in which students have been 
robbed. One house in particular has been 
broken into on three different occasions. 
Those students moving "off' next year must 
be careful not to trust the younger neighbor­
hood children, for often their friendliness is 
motivated out of their older brother's designs 
on your stereo. When hosting a party, stu­dents should limit their guests to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, although this is no guarantee that nothing will turn up missing the next morning. 
Furthermore, those students considering a 
move to St. Louis, Corby or Notre Dame next 
year should look not only at a given house's 
party potential and number of bedrooms, but 
also at security. If it is unsatisfactory, demand 
that changes be made before you sign the 
lease. Discuss your future landlord with the 
current residents of that house. They know 
better than anybody how cooperative he is. 
Increased police protection may be com­
mon to television, but to the real world it is 
quite the stranger. Even in light of the recent 
crime wave, patrols have not increased 
noticeably. Therefore, students must be 
prepared to be security-conscious at all times. 
Amove off-campus is often motivated out of 
a desire for increased freedom, and as always, 
the price of freedom is responsibility. Stu­
dents must now bear the responsibility of 
ever-greater watchfulness in order to protect 
their property; the University will no longer 
do that for them. 
Xavier Yves Zang Terry Sigler Notre Dame students 

Psychotherapy cannot replace the confessional 
DearEditor: 
In my two years at Notre Dame, I had never read such infuriating nonsense in The Obser­ver as alumna Ann Pettifer's guest column in the Feb. 12 issue, entitled "Sexism of Confes­sional Turning Women Away." 
In her article, Pettifer boldly though idioti­cally stated that psychotherapy "is the obvious, constructive alternative to confes­sion" for Catholic women. Pettifer seems ig­norant of the fact that the Sacrament of Reconciliation is not a form of therapy put on by the Church, but a holy, living sacrament of He Who Is. It deals with personal, sincere repentance of sins and subsequent forgive­ness ofthings worthy ofeternal damnation by our Everloving Father. I'm talking about eter­nal hellfire on one hand and the salvation of one's very soul on the other. It's not meant to be a psychiatric rap session. Don't even men· tion psychotherapy in the same breath. It's a totally different subject altogether, and in no way couldserve as a substitute for confession. 
I could go on and on about all the confu­sion, emotional feministic sexism, faulty logic and sheer absurdity that is rampant in her argument, but it is not worthy to be repeated because it is totally irrelevant to what recon­ciliation with the Almighty is all about. Her article is the epitome of arguing about some­thing one knows very little about. Pettifer, take some ofyour own advice and get profes­sional help. 
LanyAnderson Grace Hall 

Stories of Chamorro 
do not please student 
DearEditor: 
I am appalled at the docility with which 
Notre Dame students accepted Edgar 
Chamorro's story and reasons for quitting the 
Directorate of the Nicaraguan Democratic 
Force (FDN). 
First ofall, Chamocro did not quit the FDN; 
he was dismissed by the directors fo his lack of 
competence. Before that, he was expelled 
from Honduras by the Honduran Government 
as a "a liability to their foreign policy." 
Here are some quotes from Chamorro, 
which contradict each other completely. If 
anyone can chnage his word sofar backand so often, without suffering any loss ofcredibility or without even being questioned, then it is truly something amazing that the world has progressed this far. 
In January of 1984 (in West Watch magazine), Chamorro said: "the Sandinistas have not brought us revolution. They brought us foreign ideology -Marx, Engles, Lenin. They brought us foreign experts... who have accumulated experiences against the West in the Soviet Union. They are very sophisticated in the use of ...Disinformation." In june of 1985, Chamorro wrote in a column for the New York Times that the Sandinista revolu· tion was not Marxist-Leninist,.but nationalist, "based on national pride and dignity." 
In the same january interview, Chamorro said "the Sandinistas don't care about people. They just want to communicate their doctrine. They are not idealistic. They are ruthless thugs. They are people who are im­plementing a very cruel Marxist system." In june of 1985 he said "what we must do is to recognize the good that has come from the revolution in Nicaragua. It has brought a sense of dignity and independence to the Nicaraguan people." 
On Sunday evening he said "one of the first things that really surprised me was when I found out that we were killing prisoners as a policy." 
In an interview in Soldier of Fortune 
magazine in August, 1985, he was asked "have 
you had any POW's ask to join the FDN?" To 
which Chamorro responded, "Always. Almost 
all of them join after a few hours when they 
realize we are campesinos, just like them, not 
Somocistas or CIA lackeys like the Sandinistas 
have told them." 
On Sunday night, he accused the CIA of writing a manual on how to assasinate people and create martyrs. Luckily, the FDN does not need martyrs to draw people; the Sandinistas are the first and major cause for volunteers. As Chamorro said in that August 1984 interview, "...we do have great support. They (the people) give us food, information and their houses. We can send men from place to place via a chain. Somebody takes you three miles or five, and then another takes over, and anot­her..." 
Chamorro also creates problems that do 
not exist. He says the CIA and FDN cannot 
coordinate for they have different goals. He 
said they could not say that their goal was to 
overthrow the Sandinistas. "We were 
supposed to talk to the press and the Congress 
in different terms." (I suppose Chamorro 
hoped that neither would be able to tell the 
difference). More congresmen are aware 
today ofwhat goes on in Nicaragua than there 
were six months ago, and the dictatorial 
character of the Sandinistas is even better 
known. I suppose that ifit is true that the elec­
torates do not like sincere politicians, 
Chamorro should be able to clean up any 
major election including that of President of 

the United Nations. Maybe he can find his 
campaign manager among those at the library 
auditorium last Sunday night. Not to question 
this man and to swallow so easily what he said 
is inconceivable. It is true that grades do not 
always reflect knowledge. 
I must return to finance, but it was just too 
much for me to stay quiet about what I saw on 
Sunday. I will not take any time to write about 
this again though, for I pay a price for doing it, 
both academic and psychological. Sooner or 
later, however, ignorance will catch up. We 
Nicaraguans have voted with our feet, and 
many are fighting, thousands are fighting the 
Sandinistas and winning as well. Perhaps 
when we defeat the Sandinistas, none in the 
United States will find out until a couple of 
months after. God help us. Viva FDN. 
Adolfo Calero-Lacayo Notre Damegraduate student 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamihon Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan Controller ............ ~............... WiHiam J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager ..............•..... Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson 
administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sport3 Editor ...........................................Jell Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennen 
Sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of amajority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy
ava1lable to aH members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches 
campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wofl Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 9 

Do you have a way with 
The Accent department of The Observer is looking for talented features writers. 
Help us open up issues, analyze trends, review campus entertainment and interview celebrities. 
For more Information contact 
Mary Healy 
at The Observer 239-5313 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~.....­

-
The Observer /Mary Reynolds 

Tim Thelen and Jeanne Noce volunteer at the Women's Care Center, helping Executive Director Deborah Rogers. 
year's phoneathon raised nearly People treat abortion like it's just S32,000. The calling is done byanother medical procedure," said members ofthe Notre Dame andNoce, "but it's not. For many 
''There are a 

Saint Mary's Right to life Group.
women there's a lot ofpsychologi· "The center is always in need ofcal anxiety and pain." 
wide range of 

good volunteers," said Rogers. In Thelen and Noce agreed that the addition to volunteering as coun­most rewarding aspect oftheir 
human prob­

selors and callers for the phoneat·work at the center is being able to hon, students can work asreach out to a woman who is in 
lems involved 

counselors for the center's 24-hourtrouble and to help her work hotline.
through her problems. 
in pregnancy. '' 

"The training for counselors is "I feel that we sort ofhave an 
very intense, but the students gain a obligation to help those who can't Tim Thelen lot from the experience," said see past their own problems. They 
Rogers. Noce summed up the attitude
need someone whom they can trust in supporting the center. The surrounding the center, saying, "It's
to help them find peace and happi· center is run totally on donations. a positive thing that people who
ness again," said Noce. The center's phoneathon which believe in life can offer to other
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's runs this week and next week is a people who are ln trouble."
community has played a large part major fundraiser for the center. Last 
MARY REYNOLDS 
features writer 
P 
regnancy is not an issue that most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students give much thought to. However, for students who volunteer at the Women's Care Center in South Bend It is a very real problem. 
"Sometimes you get locked up in a box at school and you don't realize that so many people are having crises with one specific problem· pregnancy," said jeanne 
We don t 
'' 
' 

give them answers. We try to help people to look into their rela­tionships and and see how they should go about getting their lives in order.'' 
Jeanne Noce 
f!oce, a Notre Dame student who 
V< •lunteers as a counselor at the center. 
The purpose ofthe center is to offer care for women. The majority of the women who visit the center come initially for pregnancy testing. 
"It's not a pregnancy test factory, though," emphasized Noce. "We take a lot of time to explore the problems of the women to come Into the center." 
Volunteers Reach out and help somebody 
According to Noce, even if the 
pregnancy test Is negative, the fact 
that the women came to the center 
at all often signifies that there Is 
some sort ofproblem. 
For women who are pregnant, 
the center helps them to work 
through the problems involved 
with a pregnancy. 
"There are a wide range of 
human problems involved in preg· 
nancy," said Tim Thelen, another 
Notre Dame student who is also a 
volunteer counselor at the center. 
"We deal with the total person. 
the relationship with the guy, what 
it will mean at school, and the 
relationship with the parents," said 
Deborah Rogers, executive director 
of the center. 

"A lot of times when the preg· nancy test is positive a brick wall goes up and the person can't see beyond the pregnancy. We help them break down this wall," said Noce. 
As the center is run on a pro-life philosophy, one ofits major ob· jectives is to dissuade pregnant woman from having abortions. 
We're arguing that the loving choice for the woman is to have the child," said Thelen. "It is one of the most difficult things a woman may ever do, but ifshe can work through the problems she can grow from the experience. It's a positive choice. Abortion is a negative choice." 
The center doesn't tell women what to do, however. "We don't give them answers," said Thelen. "We try to help people to look into their relationships and see how they should go about getting their lives in order." 
Not all ofthe women who come in to the the center are seeking help in dealing with a pregnancy. "A lot ofpeople who come in here have already had an abortion and they come here for help in working through it," said Thelen. "It isn't the easy answer they thought it was going to be." 
Thelen, Noce and Rogers stand outside the Women's Care Center on N. St. Louis St. 
Thursday, February 20, 1986 page 10 
Rich sound and poetic lyrics are refreshing 
CAROLINE Gll.LESPIE and 
BRIAN PETERS 
features writers 
T 
he Waterboys opened for U2 a 
few years ago and were 
criticized for playing in the same 
style as U2. No one must have been 
listening. 

Records 
This is the Sea 
***j(outof four) 
The Waterboys, a trio from Scot­

-land, and U2, from Ireland, may come from the same part ofthe world but that's about their only similarity. The Waterboys have their own distinctive sound. Mike Scott runs the show, writing and producing all the songs himself. He is a perfectionist, spending months to get the songs to sound like they do in his head. This is the Sea, the bands latest album, is full ofmesmerizing music 
that captivates the listener. The band's music surrounds the listener as it builds, layer upon layer with acoustic guitar riffs and horn ar­rangements.
The band's music sur­rounds the listener . 

Scott's lyrics are poetically powerful. His singing is full ofemo­tion. The song "Old England" brings out the pain and anger he has toward a once powerful, but now decaying country: 
Man looks up on a yellow sky And the rain turns to rust In hts eye Rumours ofhis health are lies Old England is dying. 
"Spirit," is the shortest song on the album in which Scott plays the piano and sings about the limita­tions of man and how those limita­
i tions can be overcome: 
Man seems, Spirit is Man dreams, The Spirit lives Man is thethered, Spirit is free What Spirit is man can be. 
Side two ofthe album weaves in and out ofthe listener's mind with catchy melodies and periods of intenseemotion. Scott's voice pleads emphatically as he draws the listener into his seemingly personal dilemmas. 
The album comes to a climax with the song "This is the Sea " as it takes the listener on a journey, rolling on waves ofacoustic guitars. In the song, Scott explains that life isn't as easy as it used to be: 
That was the river This is the Sea. 
After last year's critically ac­claimed album A Pagan Place, people wondered what The Water­boys would do for an encore. Their encore, This is the Sea, has all the emotional depth ofthe first album plus the added benefit ofScott's newly acquired pop style. 
It deserves a standing ovation. 
Soundtrack in the pink 
TOM TIERNEY 
features writer 
T 
he new movie written byJohn 
Hughes and starring Molly 
Ringwald, the pair who have 
hooked up in "Sixteen Candles" and 
"The Breakfast Club" in the past, 
will be out next month. It is to be 
called "Pretty in Pink," which is also 
the title of the soundtrack album, 
just released this past week. 

Records 
Pretty in Pink 
***(outof four) 
John Hughes has made a habit of using soundtrack music as an in­tegral part ofhis films, and this one is no exception. In these soundtracks, he has also liked to highlight some ofhis favorite, yet relatively obscure,bands, in order for them to receive the exposure to make it big in America. 
He did it for Simple Minds with "Don't You (Forget About Me)," and promises to do it again for Orchestral Manoeuvres in the Dark with the theme song from this film, "IfYou Leave." 

"IfYou Leave" is a brilliant song, slow and melancholy, with a syn­thesizer melody reminiscent of some ofOMD's older work, and "Hold You" on their latest album, Crush. The song's lyrics hauntingly describe the breakup ofa relation­ship. The song specifically details the pain suffered by a man as the woman walks away, and how he comes to accept his loss: 
Ifyou leave /won't cry I won't waste one single dav, But ifyou leave Don't look back I'll be running the other wa~ •. 
"Pretty in Pink," the Psychedelic Furs' song from which the title< f the film was taken, is also included on this album, but it is a new ver­sion of their original 1981 classic. This new rendition is sparser, les1 psychedelic, than their old hard­edged, "wall-of-sound," style. It de-emphasizes the saxophone and guitar, and is underscored with keyboards and Richard Butler's scratchy vocals. This version is more accessible than the first, but does not carry the same power. 
There is also a new INXS song, "Do Wot You Do," on the album. It has 1NXS's typical exotic and heavy rhythms, with a searing saxophone solo, but, strangely enough, the melody seems to be almost borrowed from Elvis Costello's "Senior Service." This single is far better than anything on the latest INXSalbum. 
The album also contains a good new song by New Order, called "Shell-Shock," which has a jerky disco beat, but, unfortunately, has a synthesizer line which sounds almost wimpy compared to their most recent work. 
Also included is a brand new song by Suzanne Vega, the darling ofthe nuevo-foil< establishment, which features some fine piano work byJoe Jackson. Her song is a statement about her decidedly left-wing political colourations; it is called "Left ofCenter." 

The rest ofthe album includes some throw away funk by Jesse Johnson and weak songs by Belouis Some and the Danny Hutton Hitters (doing a remake ofa Nik Kershaw song). Two excellent, but relatively old, songs by Echo and the Bun­nymen and The Smiths are also included on the album. 
All in all, this soundtrack album is one ofthe best to come out in some time, which reflects John Hughes' continued commitment to making music an important part ofhis films. 
Film lampoons southern California lifestyle 

DONALD SEYMOUR 

"Down and Out in Beverly Hills" crude, drunken, and mentally­character in "The Goodbye Girl." children, "Beverly Hills" hits the 
features writer 

W 
is the story ofJerry Baskin, a bum unstable. Bette Midler plays the spoijed mark. alt Disney Pictures has made who decides to commit suicide and bored housewife, Barbara One thing that does wear thin in an R-rated movie, but don't after being deserted by his dog, his Whiteman, better than even Bar­the movie is the use of dogs. I know swear off Mickey Mouse and cancel only faithful companion He does so ~eeing (Bette bara Streisand could have. Seeing people really do use animal your trip to EPCOT Center. I'm sure by filling his pockets with rocks and her strut around her house tall<ing • pschiatrists, but the episode here is Walt is not trembling in his grave. jumping into the pool ofDave and Midler) strut ofher yogi Is a delight, especially downright silly, and the Whiteman's Barbara Whiteman, the quinessen­for those who wondered ifshe dog itself is much too intelligent tial nouveau-riche Beverly Hills around her would ever equal her performance making an otherwise credibleMovie couple. in "The Rose." picture look silly.
review-II· ~.~ house talking
Much to Baskin's disappointment, like "Moscow on the Hudson," Mazursky and his writing partner Dave Whiteman saves him and "Down and Out in Beverly Hills" Leon Capetanos based the story
**~out of four) ,,, 

invites him to stay until he gets of her yogi is a will not have you rolling in the upon the play "Boudu Sauve Des back on his feet. What follows, of aisles holding your aching sides. It's Eaux" by Rene Fauchois and the 
"Down and Out in Beverly Hills," course, is a series ofcomic culture­delight a much subtler film that makes you original movie adaptation by Jean the offender, is actually a very clashes that upend forever the. grin and chuckle as it looks at the Renior in the 1930s. likeable and intelligent film, and worlds ofthe Whiteman family and However, at the same time, his lives ofAmerica's rich. very tame as far as R-rated pictures Jerry Baskin. character is almost too intelligent, More so than "Beverly Hills Cop," Andy Summers, I assuriJe of 
go. Released under the Touchstone Nick Nolte, as Jerry Baskin, is too mannered, and too wise to be which was more a vehicle for Eddie Police fame, composed the score, label, the same division responsible humane, intelligent, and wise. Ever believed. Murphy, this is a film that lampoons, and the use of the Talking Heads' for "Splash," "Beverly Hills" is the the method actor, Nolte probably Richard Dreyfuss, as Dave often gently, sometimes savagely, song "Once in a Lifetime" seems latest work from writer/director went weeks without a shave or a Whiteman, convincingly plays a the culture ofthe southern Califor­particularly apt. Paul Mazursky whose last film bath judging from his grimy ap­insecure man who has made his nia wonderland. Paul Mazursky, with the help of "Moscow on the Hudson" was pearance at the film's opening. His fortune manufacturing hangers, From the gurus and the hair solid performances, has succeeded well-received by viewers and performance helps destroy the idea even though his neurotic ravings transplants to the dog psychiatrists again in providing audiences with critics. that all street people are illiterate, remind me more than a little ofhis and the anorexic or transvestite solid and intelligent entertainment. 
<. 
The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 11 
NCAA 
continuedfrom page 16 
stances, for example, if a player has a low SAT score, as higher GPA may gain him admission. 
It's a step in the right direction, but there is still more to be done, in a lot of areas. 
l certainly hope that in the future when a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's writer is looking to fill this space again, that he or she can always write about players, coaches, teams and administrators that represent what the NCAA real­ly stands for. 
THE ANSWER IS 

-
vn11 
YOU 
HELP 
API'Iooco
SAVE 

Washington's Mike Gartner has a breakaway attempt jailed by ner and the rest of the Capitols came away with a 4-4 tie at Mon-St. Louis' Ric Nattress in an NHL game earlier this season. Gart-treal last night. Details ofthe game appear on page 13.
BABIES 

lht' tJh.\t·rn·r ,,,,n· l>.&nw ,,rfllt t~JlJit:d ••ll 1hc. tlurd n,,,,r '" l.lltlrllltll "tudcnl ( c:IHc.:r .I c. c. <:pi' c.IJ'"''tlc.·d .u.h c. rll".. lll~ lrc1111 tJ .1 Ill tlfllll t p 111 \1cJthl.l\ thruugh lruiJ\ /hetJIJ.\t'Yit'r".&IIH \Ltn ,,,fthc. lt•c..llc.dc•niiH. tlllrd rlttorc•l fi.J)!.~.1r< ,,(lc.).!t C c.rllc.r .hc.cpl,ll.i''>~futl'lf••lll 1.! ~''Pill tllllll ~('Ill \lc•ll d,t\ rllc•IJ).!I' I fHI.I\ I 'c. .itllllll ,, ·I Ill,, d.J\ 'l,,...... ,,lt "' ,.. .c, I' 111 \II ''·'''IIH d .. lllll'.. thc. prcp.1u.lc.lllu.r111pc.r'''n''rln 111.ul c h.tf).!t ,.. (ltc.c.lli'Pc.rll\c.'c.h.H.H
Classifieds 
ct·r' t:r c.IJ\ 

NOTICES 
LOST: GOLD CLIP ON EARRING ON NEED A DAYTON GA TICKET WILL PAY HuFlgfy? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at FOR THAT HAWAIIAN GUY: FOR THAT Eileen SOUTH QUAD. SENTIMENTAl VAlUE WELL CAll X2035 272·HIKE. Delive<y hours; Spm·12am HAWAIIAN GUY: OHHI ANNAHAH In Symphonic Mutera...How about a FROM PALESTINE. REWARD! CAU Monday· Thuraday; Spm·2am Friday; VISEETAHI STM AHAl. STM movie thia -end? The guy who Mt 233·3669 MY SISTER WILL DO ANYTHING FOR 4 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday HAHEVAHIII Snort! Snort! "'We wouldn't next to you on Tueaday. Andy DAYTON TICKETS Ill Call Ed at 3166. tease you If we didn't love you I"' The LBC Typing Available 
(Hope you don't mind. Anne.) National Champ Plaque For Sale For In­217-4082 formation Call 616 663 8750 BED AND BREAKFAST available for NO 
•DOLEICUM 'Tve juat got to get thla

My parenta and little brother could caoe Junior Parenta' Weel<end and St. Mary'a
FOR RENT zippw. okay?"' ··Anne. u aha ,_,.
Sophomore Parenta" Weel<and. Two TYPING kiH to-the DANCING IRISHiao ae1t me nighhi minimum; 10 mina. from campua. 
1811 about NO buketbd. but they would 
tow.rd David and reachea deep under ::itudenhl In need of gynecological 
the table on 2/18.

CALL CHill 3 GAl tor the Dayton game. Wll pay well, 272·5640.
oervicea can be -n by the Univnty234-1117. Sem1·furn1ahed houae good neighbor· call Tom 1820. 
phyaidane or by a gynecological 
FARLEY 2Ahood ahet 4 • 255-3684/277·3604. 

specialiat. Gynecologiat by appointment 
Gonada aay thanka for caring. 

NEED MY HEART BELONGS TO DADDY. I
only 231H497. Wed. mornlnga ($20 mini· 
Wait tiU 2/18/8712-bdrm. apt. Cal 272-4613 ONE DAYTON nx LOVE YOU DAD! MISS YOU. MJ

mum lee). No fee to -Univnty
ATTN: ITUDENTI TERRY2113 
phyaidane.
Dolor• Francia typing .-vice YOUNG DEMOCRATS: 
That"a Rftlht, Only-day to 10·

phone number change MY BEACH ... MY WAVES ... MY SPRING There Will Be A Meeting Tonight At 7 P.M. 
Until•••277-8131 WANTED I NEED 2 DEPAUL GA"S. CAll 283-2123 In The Little Theater In LaFortune For All

BREAK! the irish surfer"s board lain sight Members. 
DAVE FLANAGAN FRIDAY HE LANDS 
WEEKENDProl-onal word pr,.,_ng and typing. It I don't get 2 DAYTON GA"S my parenta ED TRIFONE CAlLED HIS COUSIN! 

alloHe"a Good and IJtllyl

Conv...ent locaUon on N Ironwood Call OVEIISEM JDaa•.lum-, yr.rouncl. will give me up tor Lent. Cali Jell at 3559 ...................... 277-4220. Europe. I.A-., Aulllnllll. A818. All and help out a fellow Domer. Ann Marie, Have you flgured out who I am n..-. SI00-2000 mo. llah.....,.. R08E and PAJAMA PARTY yet? I'm in one of your cluaea... 11"811 THURSDAY NIGHT CLUa on CORaY
Free Info. Write IJC. PO .. 112-1..... . I need 2 Dayton GA'a. Marty 1050 who AttanttonCor-del M.-. CA 12121. 
Mand81ory meett,. tor all atudant Ia anyone going to Marquette/Milwaukee Dear Gina & Rob. GOD FROG DAMNIII 

body ,_.dan! and atudant body vice

LOST/FOUND 
NEEDED: Ride to Chicago weekend of Love, Andrea 
thia weekend? (2/21·2/23) I need a ride. 
,_.dant candl-tonllht et 7:00
Feb.21. Call R.J. at 1097 

Please call Margie at 284-4425. 
PM In 111 Nlauwlancl lei-Hell.

PERSONALS 
HAPPY 21st KATHY MARTINI! You ..()mbudaman EECnON Commt-
LOST: ONE PAIR WHITE WEIGHT LIF· RIDE NEEDED TO FORT WAYNE made it (even w/o the 21 ahota)! We love TING GLOVES SOUTH QUAD OR ACC FRIDAY THE 21ST CAll DEE 1329 you!!! K & L PS What were you bebbling In
One ticket needed for the Dayton/NO
30 JAN PLEASE CAll CHRISTINE 3784 THANKS Hell I• a place. a ~me, a conaciouo· German. anyway?i? 
game on March 8·Cal 284-4425. 
n,.., In which there ia no love. 
LOST: GOLD NECKLACE WITH PEN· RIDE NEEDED TO SO. SUBURBS ""JIMBO": Who ARE you??? (From a
ROMANCING THE STONE SMC HAG· 
Happy Blntlday BUBSI You /Ve WomanDANT THAT HAS DIAMONDS IN IT. IF CHICAGO.OR ALONG 1·80 FRI 2·21 • Richard Bach. curioua Benz driver) 

GAR GAME ROOM • $0.75 THRUS FEB. 
H-You Roar! LoveFOUND PLEASE CALL 272.0253. MARIJ02946 Thellriclga Ac:r.a Forevw 

20 • 6-8·10 pm FRI FEB. 21 • 6-8-10.12 
Lulu,Tootle,Bune.Linder.Klt

REWARD' 
pm
A child who cries at the coffin of hla fat· HAPPY 22ND BIRTHDAY TO JEFF RIDE NEEDED TO CHICAGO.
LOST 2 C8 Wlntar Coats (a n11vy blue her 11 only mature when he hullved long IILUII8!! STOP BY 128 FISHER HAU DOWNTOWN THIS WEEKEND (2/21·coat wtth a red atnpa.and a al<y blue coat) enough to cry at the collin of hla aon. 
OR CAll 1927 TO WISH HIM A HAPPY 
FOR SALE 2/23) Call284-4425. 
at Cempua View on Sat night. A ,_dia Nevrtr waa a boy crucified. but that the A CPA"a NIOHTIIIAJIE BIRTHDAYIII 
being olfered. Cal RCJB.272.Q828 or weeping Father alwaya found the naif­Mlke-272·2385. printa In hie own handl. Waking up and realizing that each rom· 
HAPPY 20TH ..liTHDAY, ICOOPII WE
pany'a Individual belance aheet -·t
75 FIAT Spyder gd transport. gd engine. SKOL
LOVEYOUII 

LOST(atolen?) Gold chaln,ff wan't even tirea, multler, needs bodywort<. calf 283-·Calvin Miller, add .up to The ....nee lheel of The I HEART YOU. 
World. .
worth that much. only ol high ....,timental 34 72 anytime Theil..., BETS
HEY FLATTOP! Thanka for a great time value Pleaue call3810. R-and no Saturday night. You worf<ed mireclee onlllueh; THANK YOU ST. JUDE·CJ queationa •ked.Thanka. 
my floor. K.M.

Speaking of hardware and VIXEN. O.K. So We'Re A Little (You"Re FOUND: Sliver Marfa Lorua Watch· software ... WOW! Sheila Taylor -Notre Dame"a own ren­Right. A Lot) Late. But Hey HAPPY
Ia there a Frederick'• of Hollywood In
dom D.J. ­
Found Tuea In front ot Library. Cal Bob TICKETS I'm imprelled chalengea the South Bend BELATED BIRTHOAYI Love. Huz. Mad
South Bend? 

287-6666 Radio Bluee thia week. Tune to WSND· Dog. And Wheeze I'm going to die a alooow death It I don't FM 88.9 after midnight Thuraday for the LoeT: GOLD HlKO WATCH; Deacrip­get 4 Dayton tix (atudent or GA). Pfeall8 beat in late night radio. when Sheila T. T. My S.Yy.R. Date Broi<e My Foot White 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TIM (ZIP) (PAPA
Uon: Quartz. thin. gold latch type band. 4 Dayton tix needed. atudent or GA. call Mary Ellen at 3855 or 23&-5303. pllota the Nlghtfllght. Don't mill n1 Your Dancing. I Clint Walk. K.L. 
BEAR) ZIMMER LOVE-GERRY FAUSTI 
....,. will never forgive you I 
Loat aomewhare on North Quad 2/16186. Call Mary EMen at 283-3855 or 23&-5303. 
If found. ~ contact Rey. 359 Cav.. KEVIN RUDGE. YOU'RE INTERESTING THEIOPHOMORECDnLUON
tot 1533. Wll give re-d to flnderi I'M INTERESTED A GIRL IN HOLY OAR HOUlE: COLD aEER & UQUOR. A FORMAL EVENING OF DINING & CROSS 
If aomaone happened to ITEAL the lboveCJOLDSEIKO WATCH. at'-tt call or drop a note toRey, 359Cav., tel: 1533 & tel me how much you got for n ... It wiN mah me teet benerl 
WILL THE PERSON WHO BORROWED SUPER CHIEF PLEASE RETURN IT TO 108 KEENAN OR CAU3217. 
FOUND: Ona ailvar pocket croae. ln­lcrlbed with the worda ··1 am a Catholic. Pleuecallaprleat.''inGym 1 olthaACC. Call Mary at 1387 
LOST: A GREY CHECKED OVERCOAT WITH A "'U2"' BUTTON. PAIR OF GREY GLOVES. AND A GREY BUFFAlO PLAID SCARF. AT 801 ST.LOUIS ST. FRIDAY, FEB.14. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 2208 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND. 
.............•.... LOST Gold & Pewt Earringa 2/15 at An­gela SMC; Sent. Valu; R-d; Call 277· TopS tor Dayton GAl. Call John 2366. 
I need 2 GAll tor the Dayton game. Cal Rod x1768. 
I need 4 ticketa (GAl preferred) tor the Dayton game. PI-call Dale x1657. 
Need only ONE GA for DePaul. Pleez help I Connie 2768 
NYTHINO FOil 2 DAYTON OA"I CALL JOHN2110 
1980 NO GRAD WANTS TO IMPRESS BEAUTIFUL GIRL WITH 2 DAYTON 8­BALL TIX. CAll 309-452-6809. LEAVE MESSAGE. AND I WILL PAY YOU FOR THE TIX AND THE CAll. 
Have two (2) main floor tix to South Bend aymphony Sat. nile ....•••.•.. WANNA BUY 'EM?? It ao. call Greg at4186...... 
CAIIIIY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.l. 31 N•• 1 IILOCK lOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
YOUNG TRAVELLERI NEWSLETTER! lncludei:800 no.; travel pwtner aervlce;teaturea on exotic OVEMEAI budget travel. wort<. atudyl Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N.• P.O. Box 3887, New Haven, CT. 06525 
FREECOIJPON81n !Mpllow......ol 1M Cllmpua Taleph-Directory. U• themtodayl 
Miranda. Tomorrow amd tomorTow and. Ferdinand 
TONIGHT! No SEX again. but Ice Skating. hot chocolate and lots of fun. 8;Q0-10:15 p.m. at N.D. fee Rink. Bring the gang! FREE·FREE·FREE·FREE· FREE-FREE! 
DANCING FRIDAY MARCH nll 
Mill San Diego: I've got the aoap If you"ve got the time. 
GOD IS A DUCK 
EDDIE MUNSTER IS THE POPE 
Dance and Party with LAKE EFFECT at CHEEM: Th. Fri. Sat. 
To my Teddy Bear· I love you alwaya. ·Your Linle Boy. 
GREG you ahould know better than to drive your car on the Ice. you might juat 
HAPPY 22nd aiRTHDAYI 
JEFFIILUMa 

TICKET STUB KELLY. YOU PICKED THE WRONG DOOR LAST FRIDAY. YOU"LL NEVER KNOW WHAT YOU'RE MISSING!! Love. the Guya at the Cellar 
Dolld, Scoop. Mo. Diaha, Unnie, Lyone, Mom-y,etal, I LOVE YOU ALLI Thanka for the beet birthday ever, beet friendal After the will8 warda ofour famed hoat lut night. 
................................ 
HAPPY ..RHTDAY IIOMU BOY·DO WE HAVE A CELEBRATION FOR YOU! FIRST WE THOUGHT WE GO THE BEACH FOR SOME WATER VOL· LYBAlll THOSE LIFEGAURDS NEED A GOOD PARTY. MAKE A WISH AND BLOW OUT THE CANDLES (DO YOU HAVE ANY BREATH LEFT? YOU LOOK SORTA BLUEI) LOOK OUT BORRIS. THE LIFEGAURDS HAVE A KEG AND I THOUGHT I SAW SOME CRAYONS. CONSTRUCTION PAPER, STICKS AND SHEETS. TOOl YOU KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS! WE AU CHIPPED IN AND BOUGHT YOU A FISHTANKI YOU REALLY REMIND ME OF SHAKESPEAR! TOO BAD ORUGS DON'T HELP YA FLOATI LOVE. THE 
ICEWALKERS P.S. DIDN'T YOU EVER SEE OMEN If 71 WOOSIEI 
OK THANKS FOR THE LAST SPEC­TACULAR 2 1/2 YRS. IT WAS HIM-OHI CJ 

8549. NEED 4 DAYTON GA'S. CALL BIU AT COMING SOON ... SOONER THAN YOU get Into and OTTOwrecl< Wfth frlen<n Ike you. I don"t nHd...... 
1775 THINK... THE SAGA... THE WAR ""NO HOT PACKAGES RULE FRIDAY anything e/ael ,.,...... 
FOUND: Gold Lady'a Seiko Watch. FUN'" Love alwaya. Kalh HAPPY 22nd BIRTHDAY Found Tueeday In North Quad. Calf Tony NEED 2G.A.a & 2 STUD. TIX FOR a man who Ia torn be._n two lovera and P.S.It'aal over. Kathleen! We made Ill The devil 1639. DAYTON. SSCAU CHRIS·1135 •LL lant even here yet OTTO OTTO WHO? 

The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 12 
Men's swimming heads to NSC meet today 

-Alumni 
continuedfrom page 16 
mount many offensive threats after­wards and allowed Alumni to con­trol the action. Alumni put on a relentless attack culminating in Steve Vairo's winning goal with one minute left in the game. Rounding out Alumni's scoring was jim Vizzini who scored twice, and captain john Kaltenmark, who scored the Dogs' first goal. 
The finish was one that left Kalten­mark and his troops physically and emotionally drained. 
"We didn't expect Pangborn to be this tough, even though their record 
· -is very good," said Kaltenmark. "We didn't play all that well but to our credit, we came through when it counted. Rich Kramer and Nick Penna played excellent defensive hockey tonight, as did Matt Roy. He gave us a great effort in the nets when we really needed it." Both Alumni and Pangborn should have no trouble in winning their regular season finales. 
The situation in the Krause League is not as clear cut as the Cor­rigan League picture. Grace has wrapped up the league title, but the battle for the final playoff berth is still up for grabs between O.C. and 
... Cavanaugh/Howard . 
Cavanaugh/Howard (3-1 ), however, has the edge should both teams win their remaining games. In its game with O.C., which ended in a 2-2 tie, Cavanaugh/Howard was recently awarded the victory when it was discovered that O.C. used an ineligible player. Combined with Off-Campus's loss to Holy Cross/St. Ed's on Tuesday night, Cavanaugh/Howard is now in the catbird seat. Off Campus, last year's interhall champs, has to win next week and hope that Cavanaugh/Howard will somehow stumble along the way. 
On Tuesday night, Holy Cross/St. Ed's (2-3) took a 2·1 decision from 
O.C. (2·2-1). The defeat was a tough one for O.C to swallow, as Holy Cross/St. Ed's Paul Arends scored in 
C-'' 

Junior Parents Weekend Concert featuring... 
,.·=:-..·?"'-........
1('"-: 0;::-:-, 

:.~:Ji..tlenanfaans 
J·, ~ _',  CJ notre Dome's S1ng1ng and  
Dor'lClng Ensemble  
.:~  ..-... s:·~.. '~.'  Saturday, Feb 22 3pm-4pm  
at  

The Annen burg Auditorium in the Snite Museum (come early to get seats) 

dramatic fashion with seven seconds played well all season. remaining for the win. Mark Farmer In other action, Pangborn blanked scored Holy Cross/ St. Ed's only ot­Carroll, ·5-0. Carroll (3-3) had a her goal. rough week as they also lost to 
Captain Gene O'Connor of Holy Keenan (3-3 )by a 5-3 score. Captain Cross/St. Ed's, whose team has lost Brian Tracey scored all five goals for some dose games, feels his team has Keenan. 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Communication and Theatre presents 
A Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Theatre production 
__..,___
\\·ith R( Jhen SH ll111\ Jnt a~ Pn l~pvn J 
--.avou are invited to attend a Slide-Lecture­
in The Annenberg Auditorium THE SNITE MUSEUM OF ART 
'WHATIS ART?' 
SYMBOLISM: INTERPRETING ARTISTS' IMAGES 
THURSDAY, February 20 8:00pm 
"African Art as Symbol & Its Influence on Artists in the 20th Century." 
an examination of African Art as a symbol of change used 
L,____
by Picasso, Brancusi, Modigliani and others. 
by Douglas E. Bradley Curator of Ethnographic Arts The Snite Museum of Art 
Open to the public. Students adQtitted FREE. 
------Sponsored by Tbe Friends of The Salle Museum of Art ----­
Holy Cross Fathers 
Edmonton superstat Wayne Gretzky ended up with a seat on the ice an Oiler victory earlier this week. Gretzky and the rest ofthe Oilers dumped the Toronto Maple Leafs last night, 9-5. 
BACK TO THE GRIND For you it'• back to the boob. For u• it'• grinding len•-for your better vi8ion 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contact., gla•••• 
ND/SMC STUDENTS, FACULTYAND STAFF 
Show your J.D. and receive 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&eluding Speda.. 
~ ProfessionalVISion 
w ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400 
. 2n-1161 
Martin's Shopping
South of U.S. 23 
Center 


• 

RESTAURANT" LOUNGE 
10331AKE STREET 
NILES. MICHIGAN 616/683-7474 

a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

JUST ASK ANYONE! 

For personal, confidential interview witla no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 For appointment. call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6358 


By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swimm­ing team will try to avenge theri 1984-85 second-place North Star Conference finish when they com­pete in the conference champion­ships today. 
A year ago, Evansville defeated the Irish by 204 points, as Notre Dame finished second ion a field of seven. 
"We IJ.lUSt figure out a way to pick up 205 points on _Evansville," explained Notre Dame head swimmigncoach Tim Welsh. ''Except for diving and the 100-yard backstroke, all of outr times are better than last year. hav­ing this improvement in 16-out of­18 events means a lot." 
For Notre Dame's sake, defen­ding champion and host Evansville will not be able to boast of the same improvement. 
Evansville, Oral Roberts, St. Louis, Butler, Xavier AND Loyola (Chicago) will round out the com­petition against Notre Dame in the championship meet. 
"Oral Roberts, who finished third last year and who we defeated a year ago, is a much bet­ter championship team than dual meet squad, " said Welsh. "Never­theless we should be stronger and deeper than they. " 
"Butler and Xavier were here for the 'Notre Dame Relays this past fall. I expect them to be strong periodically but not consistently enough to win this meet." 
Evansville, Saint Louis and Loyola are three squads which the Irish have not faced yet this season. 
"Evansville figures to be the strongest of the teams in the field," said Welsh. "Loyola only scored 57 points last year and does not look to be a threat this meet . " 
Welsh also commented on what 
it would take for his squad to come 
out on top. 
"We are really strong in the short distance freestyle races," said Welsh. "However, we are vulnerable in the 100 and 200 dash 
backstroke, 100-yard breaststroke and 200 --yard butterf­ly. If we handle these spots well, then we will be a powerful force." 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
Howdolknow if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
What scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How dol pray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 
------------~----­
The Observer 

~,..!.ill 

-
A.l'io"hot:o 

Duke guardjohnny Dawkins scored 16 points last night to help lead the Blue Der,tls to a 104-82 win over Miami, Fla. Details ofthat and other college action from last night appear at right. 
Notre Dame Avenue 
Apartments· NOWIIENTING FOBFALL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good deals for SummerSession) 
Office at 820 ND Ave 
234~7/~5716 
Call Anytime 


• 
(4~~

01 20% Discount not including sale items 
N.D.-S.M.C. Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
Thursday, February 20, 1986-page 13 
College roundup 
Duke blows out 'Canes, 104-82 
Allsociated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. · Mark Alarie 
scored 18 points to lead five Du.ke 
players in double figures as the 
second-ranked Blue Devils pulled 
away from pesky Miami of Florida 
for a 104-82 college basketball vic­
tory last night. 
The Hurricanes forced the action 
with their running game and were 
pullaway. 
The Blue Devils raised their 
record to 26-2 and won their 13th 
home game without a loss. David 
Henderson and Johnny Dawkins 
added 16 points each, whileJay Bilas 
had 12 and Quin Snyder 10. 
Dennis Burns led the Hurricanes, 
12-12, with 29 points and Eric 
Brown added 16. 
Georgia Tech 59, Wake Forest 49 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. -Duane Ferrell scored 14 points and Mark Price hit 12, including the first eight of the second half, to lead No. 5 Georgia Tech to a 59-49 victory over Wake Forest in Atlantic Coast Conference basketball last night. 
Georgia Tech, 20-4 and 8-3, held a 28-23 halftime lead before Price, held to two points in the first half, erupted from outside to give the Yel­lowJackets a 36-27 edge with 14:48 left. 
Wake Forest, which never led, pulled within 49-43 on a Rod Wat­son jumper with 2:02 remaining but Georgia Tech hit eight of 12 free­throw attempts down the stretch to keep control. 
Watson led all scorers with 22 points. 
Kentucky 80, Florida 69 
LEXINGTON, Ky. Forward Kenny Walker scored 23 points and eighth-ranked Kentucky clinched a tie for its 36th Southeastern Con­ference title last night with an 80-69 victory over Florida. 
Kentucky raised its record to 2 3-3 overall and 14-1 in the SEC while Florida fell to 14-10 and 8-7. 
Walker gave the Wildcats a 55-39 
lead on an inside power basket with 
15:27 left in the game. But Florida, with guard Andrew Moten scoring eight points, rallied to within 63-56 with 7:27 to go. 
Reserve center Rob Lock t.hen banked in a 10-footer at 7:10 and followed that with two free throws at 6:39 to give Kentucky a 67-56 margin. 
Florida could get no closer than seven points the rest of the way. Guard Vernon Maxwell tallied 22 points to pace Florida. 
DePaul 48, Indiana St. 44 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind.-Dallas Com­egys scored 14 points, including two free throws with 16 seconds left, to lead DePaul to a 48-44 victory over Indiana State yesterday in a non­c;onference college basketball game. 
Rob Strickland also had 14 points for the Blue Demons, which boosted its record to 14-10. 
Indiana State, now 10-14, led 21­20 at the half, and the game see­sawed back and forth between the two squads through most of the second half. 

;J_'Uci\I[J<Dd?~ 
JPW Registration 
Clh.uuday, 6 -10 pm .J.:.a 9o'tturu: o'Vew D.J:e.a~ t:::f?oom 'J.r.iday, (}am -8pm ..£a 9o'tturu: o'Vew D~ t:::f?oom .:Saturc.day, 4 -8 pm diCC Cnte't tl'z.wugl'z. §ate. 10 
Please Bringyour J.D. You orvour parents may register 
-1986 

However, Comegys hit both ends 
ofa one-and-one at the 2:05 mark to 
extend the Blue Demon lead to five, 
42-37. 
The Sycamores pulled to within 
two, 42-40, on a layup by Antonio 
Gillespie with 53 seconds left, but 
DePaul then reeled off four points 
following a foul and a technical on 
Gillespie. 
The technical was called when 
Gillespie followed through on a 
dunk after being called for a foul 
with 32 seconds left. 
Strickland hit both free throws for 
the foul, but missed the technical 
shot and DePaul got the ball. 
Comegys hit his final to free 
throws in the final seconds to give 
the final tally. 
Indiana State was led in scoring by 
John Sherman Williams with 16. 
Nebraska 66, Oklahoma 
64 
UNCOLN, Neb. · Brian Carr 
scored 18 points, including a 1 0-foot 
jumper with four seconds left, to 
give Nebraska a 66-64 victory over 
No. 10 Oklahoma in Big Eight col­
lege basketball Wednesday night. 
Oklahoma had a chance to tie the 
game after Carr's final basket, but 
couid not get a shot off before the 
buzzer. 
Bernard Day and Anthony Bailous 
each added points for the 
Cornhuskers, who raised their 
record to 16-8 overall and 6-5 In the 
Big EGHT Conference 
Darryl Kennedy led Oklahoma 
with 22 points. Tim McAlister added 
I 7 and David Johnson 15 for the 
Sooners, who fell to 23-4 overall and 
8-4 in the conference. 
Fluke goal gives Habs .4-4 tie 

-
MONTREAL -Bobby Smith's 
second goal of the game on a pass 
that deflected off a Capitals' defen­
seman gave the Montreal Canadiens 
a 4-4 tie with the Washington Capi­
tals in a fast-skating NHL game last 
night. 
Smith was 35 feet from the Capi­
tals' net when he shot the puck 
towards Mats Naslund, but instead It 
ended up behind Washington 
goaltender Pete Peeters at 4:59 of 
the third period. 
Washington had two excellent scoring chances in the last six minutes of play of the third period but Montreal goaltender Patrick Roy was equal to the challenge. He stopped Bengt Gustafsson on a breakaway with 5:50 to go before Alan Haworth was frustrated by Roy's blocker about a minute later. 
Peeters, meanwhile, followed with an outstanding save in the l 7th minute on Bob Gainey's shor­thanded breakaway to preserve the tie. 
The Canadiens had a 3-1 lead 
halfway through the game but 
started the final 20 minutes losing 4­
3. 
Dave Christian started the three­goal second period scoring spree with his second goal of the night. Scott Stevens and Larry Murphy followed with goals to give the Capi­tals the lead for the first time. 
Smith, however, dampened their spirits with his 25th goal of the season to tie the: game and force the scoreless overtime period. 
Kjell Dahlin and Gaston Gingras also scored for Montreal, who, with 71 points, moved one point ahead of the second-place Quebec Nor­diques In the Adams Division stand· ings. 


.... 
The Observer Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 14 
Wrestlers travel for pair of meets 
first three quarters and finished the game with only 10. 
A capacity crowd of 16,904 saw a Kurt Rambis dunk put the Lakers ahead to stay, 44-43, with 9:33left in the third period. Two Rambis free throws and a Johnson basket gave 

Howto
the Lakers a 50-45 lead. 
Indiana's Herb Williams, who led all scorers 24 points, made a dunk shot. The Lakers then countered with 10 consecutive points, opening a 58-43 lead with 4:30 to go in the third quarter. Johnson made a layup to put Los Angeles up by 17, 70-53, and the Lakers took a 1 5-point advantage into the final period. 
But the Lakers had to survive a 
New York ,, 
continuedfrom page 16 
-gone are the years 1970-71, when Phelps' Fordham Rams went 26-3 and set New York on it's ear. "I don t forget the people here , " Phelps said about coming back to New York. "I want Tom to succeed, and I hope he gets the support." IRISH ITEMS-Phelps cleared his bench except for DonaldRoyal , who was r~sting a hip bruise, and Michael Smith, whoi skipped a class. 
Jut nlght'a reaulta Notre Dame102, Manhattan 47 Notre Dame(102) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P 

Barlow 25 11-15 ~ 8 2 24 
Dolan 28 2-3 0·0324 
Kempton 27 5-8 1·2 12 2 "11 
Rivers 25 7-11 1-2 1 0 15 
Stevenson 24 6-a o-o 4 o 12 
Hicks 15 3·5 3-4 3 2 9 
Connor 14 4-5 0..() 2 0 8 
Voce 15 2-4 1-1 8 3 5 
Price 14 4-10 0-0 1 2 8 
Beeuwsaert 11 2-2 o-o 2 2 4 
Peters 21-1 Q-0002 
200 4Hi4 8-11 40 15 90 

FG Pet. • .641. FT Pet. • .727. Team 
rebounds • 3. Turnovers -11. Assists -33 
(Rivers 10). Technicals-none. 
Manhattan (47) 
M FG-A FT·A R F P 

Holmdohl 39 7-20 0-1 4 3 14 Klemick 1 o-1 o-o o 1 o · Schiano 272-60·0414 Boyle 40 3-7 1·2 0 1 7 Owens 40 2·12 0·0 1 2 4 Adams 27 5-8 4-4 1 2 14 Hall 11 2-2 o-o o o 4 O'Connor 60·00-0210 Rogan 3 o-1 o-o o o o 
200 21-56 5-7 12 11 47 

FG Pet. .375. FT Pet. • .714. Team rebounds • 6. Turnovers -14. Assists • 17 (Boyle 7). Technicals ·none. 
Halftime • Notre Dame 46, Manhattan 29. Officials • Mickey Crowley, Jim Burr, Nick Gaetani . A· 8905. 
Alumni, Sorin win; hoops playoffs start 
By SHAWN BUSHWAY 
Sports Writer 

The men's interhall basketball playoffs got offto a rousing start last Monday night with convincing wins by Alumni and Sorin. 
In the first game, Alumni downed Grace, 66-54. The Dogs were led in scoring by Bill ZadeH, with 14 points, and Mat Hanley with 17. Grace's Dan Gamache and Tom Hickey led their team with 14 points each. 
Alumni's captain, Ken Schuerman, felt that the game, although closer then the score indicated, showed the players what they could do when working together. For this reason, he feels that tonight's game against Morrisey, the team who handed them their only season defeat, might have a different outcome. 
In the second game, a skilled Sorin squad crushed an under­manned, outsized Flanner team. Sorin spread their points around with Steve Beuerlein scoring a team-high 13 points, while Flanner's Joel Rump led his team with 18 points. Flanner's captain, Eric Grasberger, expressed admiration of the skill, depth and size that Sorin displayed. Sorin's ability to run was given as a main factor in the win. 
The next round in this double-elimination tournament begins tonight at 8 with undefeated Morrisey taking on Alumni, followed by Sorin versus Dillon at 9. This last game figures to be a real battle, as Sorin seeks to avenge their unexpected defeat at the hands of the hard working Big Red. The B-league playoffs continue with Sorin versus Stanford followed by Morrisey and Cavanough. Grace and Flanner battle it out at 6 in the loser's bracket of the tournament. I this action takes place in Gym 4 of the ACC. 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
After winning twice last weekend, the Notre Dame wrestling team faces a pair of stiff challenges this weekend as it takes on Nebraska and Brigham Young in lincoln, Neb. 
According to Irish head coach Fran McCann, a very important quality that these teams possess is tradition. 
"These teams have histories of solid programs," McCann says. "They traditionally put together strong teams." 
Nebraska, the host team, is enjoy­ing an excellent season with a 13·5 record against a tough schedule. 
"They're a very good team," McCann says. "They have beaten some really good schools, and they traditionally have a strong squad. It will be a very tough meet." 
Against Brigham Young, tradition is once again a major factor that McCann says the Irish must contend with. 
"I really don't know a lot about them this year," he says. "They have always dominated the (Western Ath· letic Conference), and they have a history ofbeing in great shape physi­cally." 
Despite having to face these im­pressive traditions, McCann expresses enthusiasm about his own squad as it enters the last regular season meet ofthe year. 
We're in good shape physically, and our spirits are really high," says McCann. "In a physically demanding sport like wrestling, we have to be careful to avoid burnout as we get down to the end of the season, espe­cially with a youn~ team." 
"We're really working liard and I think we're peaking mentally at just about the right time. 
Magic, Lakers down Pacers, 90-81 
Assodated Press 
INDIANAPOUS · Magic Johnson scored 13 third-quarter points, in­cluding six in a decisive 16-2 spurt, and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar made three consecutive sky hooks in the final five minutes, as the Los Angeles Lakers downed the Indiana Pacers 90-81 in the NBA last night. 
Abdul-Jabbar and Johnson each finished with 21 points and helped limit Indiana to only one shot most of the night. The Pacers had only four offensive rebounds through the cold fourth quarter after taking their biggest lead of the night at 73-55 on a three-point play by Maurice Lucas with 11:47 remaining in the game. The Lakers hit only 7 of 20 from the field in the last quarter, allowing In­diana to get back into the game. 
Two free throws and a basket by Bryan Warrick cut Indiana's deficit to six, 79-73, with 5:12 left in the game. Two/consecuive sky-hooks by Abdul-Jabbar followed and after a pair of free throws by Williams, he made another to give the Lakers an 85-75 lead with 3:03 to go and In­diana never drew closer than six again. 
Los Angeles, which defeated In­diana for the 22nd time in 26 meetings, had to play most of the game without James Worthy. The club's No. 2 scorer, with a 20.6 average, was hit in the groin during a scramble in the first quarter and watched the rest of the game from the bench after leaving with about five minutes remaining in the period. 
With the American Express@-' Card mu can huy evervthing from new spectacles to some pretty spectac ular clothing. The latest in audio equipment and the latest alhums. 
The Card is the perfect way to pay for just ahout anything you 'II want during college. 

How to get the Card before you graduate. Because we believe that college is the first sign of success. we·ve made it easier for you to get the American Express Card. Graduating students can get the Card as soon as they accept a SIO,OOO career-oriented joh. If you're not graduating this semester. you can apply for a special sponsored Card. Look for student applications on campus. Or call 1-800-THE-CARD. and tell them you want a student application. 
The American Express Card. Don't leave school without it:M 
v 
c 


.r-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~4(Jt~C3l~----------------------------------------Th--u.rs_d_a_y_,F_e_b_ru_ary 
2_o_,_l9_8_6_-_P_a_g_e_l_S 

Bloom County 
1£56€£... 
"RXJC)... 

t:I:JN'i
FrcnON •.• 

WANNA 
FASHION ... " 

1-EtlR rr, 
Mf!.O. 
\ 

Zeto 
MILO, 

MY~f£2 
''CANDf Ciff7S 
'me-ea; C£e5.
'' t::1'Y n rv rr " T'U. GeT 
HH'"'""" vv I • PIMFU:S ON 
FRffi3€"£ -PISCO I
Mf56 JULY. MY KNE£5 
AND RW I YEJ\t-1 ?
··CANPI ~-ff I REAli 
M<XISlACHeG.'" HOW ABOOr
\ 1HI5 51VFF. 
KM:£ PIMft€.5.
I 
\ 

ACROSS 1 Community: 
abbr. 4 Elite 9 Jungle aound 
13 Edible tuber 14 Graduate 15 Araenalataah 16 Torma or Blanc 17 Egyptian 
leader once 18 -the finish 19 Laasea 21 High point 23 Carry out 24 Puccini girl 25 Bacchanalia 26 Dandy 30 Wed 32 Cheatwood 33 A least-
famine 34 Brlatlea 35 She's Reddy 36 Young beet 37 Miss Piggy's 
pronoun 36 Weatem 
capital 39 Frozen deaaert 40 Per the menu 42 Alone 43 Chances 44 Librarian'& 
demand 47 Lynx cousin 50 "Music Man" 
atar 51 With: Fr. 52 Deer feature 55 Pubpour 56 York or Vallee 57 Rostand hero 56 -deplume 59 Stock market 
name 60 Odlat of note 61 Some 
DOWN 1 Fr. river 2 Pacific 3 Big Sur state 4 "-lowered 
the boom" 5 Charlo«•­6 Ger. river 
Cl1966 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
All Rlghta Reserved 
7 Chemical auttlx 8 Almond confection 9 "The -Spain 
lalla..." 10 Atlanta arena 11 Amo, a mas, ­12 Portnoy's 
creator 14 Lack of pep 20-Rebellion 
(1842) 22 Mideast bigwig 24 Computer 
device 26 Martinique mount 
27 Super Bowl 
quarterback 28 Yemeni 29 Harvard rival 


30 "I Remember-" 39 Jacket tor 31 MP's prey Ravel? 32 Irishmen 41 Tailbone 35 Sailor's 42 Allurers 
biscuit 44 Caner's piece 
2120/86

Wednesday's Solution 
FEDIS ALA~MID'RIP 
A L 0 E IC 
0 C ~ A I 10 T A L A W N ~ 
I .ft. lU_ L A T EIS 

A N N E !illM E SIS RIS 
I-SIC A L IC A P P­0 T 
TIA~e~~ T OIU T S R W R. 0 
I E I:R IN I E D I IOJR IEJAIG E R lAID A R 
I R KIE R!lm,Et•E R G 
E,LEIVATE AGIORIAE 
i-E G AID P L 0 S­S 0 R R E L •t J: E T !C H 
C R I S 
C R 
S 
'S A L E 
,U_
AN 

T E 
N L 
I T 
S T 
EW 

R E E D 
MA 
L 
T S 
0 N
A E 

36 Meadow mice 36 Actress Thompson 
2/20/86 45 Punctuation mark 46Foe 47 Vamp Theda 46 Egg 49 Adam­53 Comic Louis 54 -lela 

Berke Breathed 

Kevin Walsh 
''You know, Bjorg, there's something about holding a good, solid mace In your hand-you just look for an excuse to smash something." 

The Dally Crossword 
Campus 
•3:00 
P.M. · Colloquium, "Federal Funding and Strategies for Obtaining Funding," Prof. Frank Gilfeather, National Research Council, Room 227 Computer Center and Math Build· ing, Sponsored by the Math Dept. 

•3:30 
P.M. · Computing Minicourse, Nota Bene Wordprocessing, Part 2: Room 104 Computing Center 

•4:00 
P.M. · Seminar, "Photophysics and Photochemistry ofExcited States ofRadicals," Dr. Dan Meisel, Argonne i'/ational Laboratory, Conference Theatre Radiation Laboratory, Sponsored by Radiation Laboratory 

•4:30 
P.M. · Colloquium, "Operator Al­gebra," Prof. Frank Gilfeather, Room 226 Computer Center and Math Building, Sponsored by the Math Dept. 

•6, 
8 & 10:00 P.M.· Movie, "Romancing the Stone," Haggar Game Room, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by the SMC Freshman Council 

•6, 
8 & 10:00 P.M.. Lecture, "African Art As Symbol in the 20th Century," Douglas E. Brad· ley, Snite Museum of Art, Annenberg Auditorium, Sponsored by the Friends of the Snite Museum ofArt 


•7:00 
P.M. -Lecture, "The Christian Scheme of Salvation," Richard Swineburne, Oxford University, Center for Continuing Education 

•7:00 
P.M.· Meeting, Mandatory meeting for potential candidates for student body presi· 

•7, 
9 & 11 P.M. · Movie, "Boys From Brazil," Knights ofColumbus Hall, S1 

•7:30 
P.M. · Get Together, Spanish Club, Center for Social Concerns Building 

•8:00 
P.M. -Movie, "Namibia: Africa's Last Colony," Center for Social Concerns Building, Sponsored by the African and Black Studies South Africa Film Series 

•8:00 
P.M. · Lecture, "America and the Holy Land," Moshe Davis and Robert Handy, Hebrew University and Union Theological Seminary, Library Auditorium 


dent  and  vice  president,  Room  1 18  
Nieuwland  
•7:00 P.M_  -Meeting, Sociology Club  103  
O'Shaughnessy Hall  

Dinner Menus  
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Broiled Pork Chops  Roast BeefAu Jus  
Chicken Burrito  Spaghetti with Meat Marinara Sauce  

Vineyard Vegetables with Cheese  
Meatball Grinder  
TV Tonight  
8:00P.M.  16  Cosby Show  9:30P.M.  
22  Magnum, PI  10:00P.M.  
28  Ripley's Believe 1t or Not  
34  Heritage Conversation with Bill  
Moyers  
8:30P.M.  16  Family Ties  
46  Austin Bartin  
9:00P.M.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon &: Simon  ll:OOP.M.  
28  Colbys  
34  Mystery:  "The  Norwood  
Builder"  
46  LeseaAllve  

Vegetarian Quiche Reuben Croissants 
16  NightCoun  
16  St. EIKwhere  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Heritage: Civilization and  the  
Jews  
46  The Bible Hour  
16  NewsCenter 16  
22  EyewitneSii News  
28  Newswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  Praise the: Lord  

..... 
SPONSOR: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


Wednesday ,February 19th and Thursday, February 20th 7:00, 9:30, 12:00 
Please, nofood or drinks in Auditorium 

SPONSOR:  THE  STUDENT  ACTIVITIES  BOARD  
~llQ  JEOrm® [)~  
!Ffilf(f  

Friday, February 21st, $ fi ()~{f) Saturday, February 22nd 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 p.m. 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 


Thursday, February 20, 1986 -page 16
SRorts 
Irish prove to be too much for Jaspers, 102-47 
By DAVE DZIEDZIC 
Observer Special Writer 
NEW YORK -The Notre Dame basketball team could have been forgiven for "easing up" heading into last night's game against Manhattan College at Madison Square Garden. 

After all , the Irish were coming off an emotional , hard fought loss to Duke on Sunday. They face a tough two weeks in the final stretch toward the NCAA tourna­-ment, with DePaul , Marquette and Dayton ahead. And they were fac­
-
fallen on very tough times. First year coach Tom Sullivan has had to yse bandages to hold together a squad beset by transfers, injuries, and academic casualties. 
"We're trying to get a program going here , "said Sullivan. "I'm proud of our kids for coming out and giuving it their best." 
Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, who coached Sullivan at Fordham in $970-71, had a message to deliver to the New York media after the game. 
"Manhattan College has to make a decision," said Phelps of the pro­gram which appears to be at a crossroads. "It comes down to giv­ing (Sullivan) the tools with no in­terference from anyone else. It's time for a commitment . " 
Manhattan is one of severalk New York schools with declining basketball programs. Last nights 10,000 empty seats are evidence that New York basketball is not what it used to be. Long gone are the days when New York Universi­ty and City College os New York battled for hoops supremacy. And 
see NEW YORK, page 14 
ing a Manhattan tean that many consider to be the worst in the NCAA division lA 
But the Irish took nothing for granted as they thrashed the Jaspers, 102-47. 
Consider that Notre Dame: 

scored the first six points and never looked back, outscored Manhat­tan, 75-27, over the last 28 minutes of the game, outrebounded Manhattan 47-18, had consecutive scoring streaks of 12, 10 (twice), nine and eight.J)leased the crowd of 8,905 with eight slam dunks, in­eluding five by Ken Barlow shot a 
season high 65 percent form the field. 
Barlow's performance was especially impressive, as he hit on 11-of-15 from the floor and made both oif his free throws for a total of 24 points. He jumped three not­ches to 14th on the alltime Notre Dame scoring list. 
David Rivers added 15 points, Mark Stevenson had 12, and Tim Kempton added 11. 
Brad Holmdohl and Jamil Adams each had 14 points for the Jaspers (2-24). 
The Manhattan program has 

they blew out Manhattan, 102-47. Barlow scored 24 points to pacefour players with doublefigures. Dave Dziedzik details the game in his story above. 
American sports: out of control? 
A discussion in my communication ethics class earlier this week touched on an attitude that is being taken by a lot of people lately-botht the participants and supporters of national sports. 
Things have gotten simply out of hand. 
It's time for us , the fans to take a look at the national sports scene -where we are now and where we're going to wind up if there aren't some changes made. 
One student in the class pointed to all the pressure put on today's college athletes -pressure which has led to all the corruption going on in many university programs. 
Another student questioned the·way this society determmines 
how much someone should be paid. Is it the responsibility that goes along with a position that determines the a person's salary, or does it only matter if you're a well-known personality and you can perform well on the athletic field? You mean that Joaquin Andujar doesn't deserve to get paid more than the 'President of the United States? 
The problems on the collegiate scene are certainly widespread. 
Now let's be realistic. Putting Michigan States Scott Skiles in jail during the basketball season would be punishing the whole team, according to Spartan Head Coach, Jud Heathcote. 

Kelly Portolese 

Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
My class wondered if the same treatment would have been af­forded to a freshman walk-on who saw only minimal playing time, given the same situation. 
Is anyone looking to teach remedial studies at the University of Georgia? I hear there's an opening. Last week a professor got demoted and then fired because she just refused to give special treatment to "student-athletes" in remedial classes. Now th University has. to figure out how to pay the $2.5 million law suit which she recently won in court. 
Says former Minnesota head basketball coach Jim Dutcher, "I gotta admit to you , based on what I thouhgt my job was, my priorities were out of wack. I thought winning was very impor­tant." 
Now he , along with acting Head Coach Jimmy Williams, will be disciplined for their alleged role in efforts to raise funds for the defense of Gopher basketball player Mitchell Lee on a rape charge of which he was acquitted. Two weeks later, he, along with two other teammates, was arrested on sexual assault charges. 
A Tennessee booster thought quarterback Tony Robinson, who has already been arrested on drug-related charges, might need to use his credit card sometime so he left it in the Robinson's car for him. The card was found a few days later -along with a gas receipt. ASll these stories filled a single day's sports page this week. 
Think of past scandals, involving Tulane, Clemson, Kentucky and SMU. Not surprisingly, I think my classmates have a point. 
Chicago Tribune sports columnist Bill Gleason suggests calling the NCAA, the "National -Student Athletic Association." 
Gleason also thinks it is time for universities to stop providing free farm systems for the NBA and NFL. 
Is this really the path college athletics are taking today? 
It sounds like it. 

Gleason also thinks it's time for newspapers throughout the na­tion to investigate this "disgraceful situation" before the revela­tions rttther than after. 
There has been some progress lately, For example, last month the NCAA tightened up it's requirements for incoming freshman athletes. A 2.0 grade-point average in a core curriculum of 11 academic subjects, as well as a minimum score of 700 on the SAT will soon be necessary for eligibility. Right now the NCAA will phase in these new n:ies over the next two years. ln some in-
see NCAA, page 11 
Grace remains unbeaten in hockey 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 
In interhall hockey action last Monday, Grace (5-0) defeated an undermanned Holy Cross/St. Ed's squad by the score of 6-1. Grace remained unbeaten to secure a spot in the playoffs by using their five-line depth. 
"We played good, sound fun­damental hockey," said player­coach Jim Radaczak. "We had some very good scoring opportunities, and we are just happy that we won." 
Grace has overpowered teams with their wealth ofindividual talent all season, and Holy Cross/St. Ed's was no exception. 

! 
"They only had nine or 1 0 players, while we had 20 on the bench," said left wing Sam Dempsey. "That says a lot about them to come out against an undefeated team. We did not break out or get out ofthe zone well, :' .... but our talent had them on the run." "This game showed our depth," said defenseman Mike Marino. "Even when individuals have a bad 
! 
game, someone else picks up the slack, and we win." 
Scoring for Grace were Tom El­liot, John Kirk, Steve Bishop, Radac­zak and Drew "Slasher" Spesard, who netted his first goal of the season along with two slashing penalties. 
Now Grace will prepare for its traditional war with Off-Campus Tuesday night in a match up that has decided the last three champion­ships. 
"O.C.'s chances ofgetting into the playoffs are slim, but they have upset us the last three years in a row," said Dempsey. "We are hungry. We can taste victory. 
"Some interhall teams are out there to have fun, but we are out there to win because winning is fun. Ifl wanted to have their kind offun, I would go to the bars instead of playing hockey." 
"Our team has shown character all season," said center Tom McGee. The team is jelling just at the right time for the playoffs. Our strength is definitely in our defense." 
Grace plays an aggressive brand of hockey, and they take many shots on goal. 
"We have come back in two games showing some heart," said Dempsey. "We work well together when we have to, and we have faith in our goalie, Phil Coghlan." 
In Monday's other matchup, a crowd of about 250 showed up for the much anticipated game between Alumni and Pangborn. What they witnessed was a whale ofa game bet· ween these two unbeatens. Alumni, which had not been seriously con­tested in previous games, had to make a tremendous rally in the final period to pull off a 4-3 victory. With the victory, Alumni (6-0) has clinched the Corrigan League Title, while Pangborn (5-1 ) has also earned a playoff spot by finishing second. 
Pangborn looked good for the win, as it was able to gain a 3-1 lead part way through the last period. Pangborn, however, was unable to 
see ALUMNI, page 12 


