
----l 
Goodwill -page 9 


4 passengers killed when bomb explodes aboard TWA flight 
AMoclated Press 
ATHENS, Greece · A bomb ex­
ploded inside a TWA jetliner bound 
for Athens yesterday, hurtling four 
pa'lsengers I '5,000 feet through the 
Greek skies to their deaths, officials 
tt·ported. At least three of the vic­
tims, including a baby, were 
Americans. 
A little-known Palestinian group claimed responsibility for the bom· bing. ·saying it was in retaliation for "American arrogance" in last week's 
U.S. military clash with Ubya. 
Seven other people, including four Americans, were injured aboard the Boeing 727, flight 840 from Rome, which landed safely in Athens I 0 minutes later, a gaping hole in its side, officials reported. 
The explosion occurred at floor level in rows I 0 or II of the pas· senger cabin, blowing one seat out through the hole as the jet flew at 
I'i,OOO feet, TWA President Richard Pearson said in New York. A senior Athens airport security official, Panagiotiso Christopoulos, had said the hla'it occurred in the cargo sec­tion below the seats. 
llte airline said 121 people were on hoard, including I I I passengers, seven crew members and three off· duty crew members. Earlier ac­counts said 124 were on board. The flight originated in Los Angeles, stopped in New York and was scheduled to go on to Cairo, Egypt, after leaving Athens. 
"'Iltere wa'l a big bang and then the man beside me was blown out along with his seat," said Ibrahim al­Nami, 29, a Saudi Arabian passenger who wa'l among the injured. "I felt myself being pulled out too and I hung on to my wife's seat beside me." 
'lltree bodies were found on an unused Greek air force landing strip outside Argos, 120 miles southwest 
ofAthens, said Christopoulos. Police said all four bodies were recovered. Ue identified the dead as Alberto 
Stino, a Colombian-born American; 
Dimitra Stylianopoulu, 52, a Greek; 
her daughter, Maria, 25; and her in· 
fant granddaughter. The baby's 
name and age were not given. 
A reporter in Argos, Georgios Seraphim, told The Associated Press that a shepherd saw the bodies tum­bling from the sky. 
"The villagers found them · the partly dismembered body of an el· derly man, a woman and a baby girl, about 18 months old, and a shat· tered plane seat," Seraphim said. He said "part ofa leg" ofa fourth person was found. 
Christopoulos at one point said another man and another baby were missing, but those reports turned out to be wrong. 
The Palestinian group, Arab Revolutionary Cells, claimed responsibility for the bombing in an anonymous telephone call to aWes­tern news agency in Beirut, Lebanon. 
The caller, speaking in Palestinian-accented Arabic, said the Ezzedine Kassam lJnit of the Arab Revolutionary Cells planted the bomb aboard the plane in retaliation for last week's military confronta· tion between the llnited States and l.ibya in the GulfofSidra. 
It was a response "to American imperialist att~cks against our Arab nation and the Jamahiriya (Libya)," the caller said. 
He denounced "American ar· rogance and attempts to dominate our Arab nation," and said his group would stage further attacks against 
U.S. targets "across the world." 
There was no immediate official Ubyan comment on the attack. But an employee of the government 
see BOMB, page 6 


Tutu calls for sanctions against South Africa 
AMoclated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa · Bishop Desmond Tutu, risking arrest for treason, said yesterday only harsh economic sanctions can force the while government to change its course and avert "a catastrophe in this land." 
'llte black Anglican bishop said he realized he might be prosecuted for making his first direct call for sanc­tions, but said he: did not care be­cause "our children arc dying, our land is burning and bleeding." 
"I call the lntc:matlonal com­munity to apply punitive sanctions against this government to help us establish a new South Africa': non­racial, democratic, participatory and just," he said. 
In Soweto, the huge black township outside Johannesburg, black activist Winnie Mandela returned to the home from which she wa~ barred for nine years. Her attorney said the government had, in effect, lifted a banning order that had restricted her movements for more than two decades by deciding not to contest an appeal. 
Government reports said most of South Africa's black students returned to class after the Easter recess, heeding a decision of black leaders not to resume a boycott that Involved about 200,000 students before It was suspended last year. 
Andrew Zondo, a 19-year-old member ofthe outlawed African Na­tional Congress guerrilla movement, was sentenced to death for a bom­bing that killed five whites Dec. 23 at a shopping center near Durban. He was convicted Tuesday. 
Tutu, the bishop ofJohannesburg who won the 1984 Nobel Peace Prize for his eloquent opposition to apartheid, did not recommend specific sanctions but said they should be punitive, coordinated and immediate. 
He told a news conference inter· national pressure is the only hope for ending the racial policy through which 'i million whites deny rights to the 24 million blacks. 
Information Minister Louis Nel said sanctions "would lead to un· employment and misery, would In­crease polarization and escalate violence in South Africa." 
"The South African government will not succumb to pressure from whatever quarter but will continue along the difficult path of peaceful constitutional development," he said. 

Neither Nel nor any other govern­ment official to whom the question was put indicated whether legal ac· tion would be taken. Doing so would be risky because ofthe intense inter­national criticism South Africa al· ready faces and the great respect Tutu commands. 
The bishop said while touring the United States last year that, unless there were significant steps to dis· mantle apartheid by the end of March, he would risk treason charges by calling for sanctions. 
Asked yesterday about the prospect of arrest, he answered, "I don't think I am going to be deterred by that kind ofconsequence." 
Lawyers disagree about whether a call for sanctions constitutes economic sabotage under South African law, and there Is no case to set a precedent. 
Tutu declared: "I have no hope of real change from this government unless they are forced. We face a catastrophe in ·this land and only the action of the international com­munity by applying pressure can save us." 
He said the government had ignored four proposals he made in 1980: a common citizenship for all residents, abolishing the "pass laws" that control the movement of blacks, no more forced removals of blacks from land sought by whites, and uniform education for all races. 
"If the government had lmplc:· mented them, we would have saved a great deal of anguish, bloodshed and the loss of property and an in· crease in bitterness and hatred and anger," he said. 
More than 70 percent of the country's blacks support some type of sanctions, he said, and foreigners who say they would be especially hard on blacks "should stop being so hypocritical." 
"I ask white people: what would you do if 1,200 of your people were killed?" he said, referring to the black death toll in in 19 months of anti-apartheid unrest. The death toll for both blacks and whites is nearly 1,300. 
Of the United States, which has 
see TUTU, page 3 THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 1986 

Cooke ticket, Thoman win run-off elections 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
Copy Editor 
One close and one decisive vic· . tory marked the off-campus com­
missioner and sophomore class 
office run-off elections held March 
20. 
Victorious were Tracy "Race" 
Thoman in the race for OC commls· 
sioner and the sophomore ticket of 
Pat Cooke. president; Theresa 
Barnhart, vice president; Chris 
Downes, secretary; and John Ruhlln, 
treasurer. 
'lltoman narrowly defeated can· 
didate Steve Taeyaerts 121 to I08 
votes, or 52.8 percent to 47.2 per­
cent ofthe vote. 
"I think everyone made a really 
good choice:, and I'm going to do a 
really good job," said Thoman. 
She said a spring formal and a push 
for more money are her immediate 
plans. 
Cooke handily won the sop· 
homore class race with 603 votes, or 
61.5 percent, to the 378 votes, or 
38.5 percent won by the ticket con­sisting of Patrick Creadon, Erica Hinkle, Tom DiResta, and Sam 
B,ailey. 
The voter turnout in the run-offs 
was lower than the initial turnout on 
March 18, according to Om· 
budsman election figures. While 
1,214 sophomores voted on March 
18, only 1,0 1 I voted in the run-offs. 
Ukewise, 295 off-campus students 
voted in the first round as compared 
to 234 in the run-offs. 
Cooke's ticket won every hall ex­
cept Dillon, Howard, Morrissey, 
Pangborn, and Sorin. 
Dillon Hall voted for resident 
Creadon with 53 votes to Cooke's 2. 
Bailey's home hall Pangborn voted 
for Creadon's ticket 46 to 10. 
Pasquerllla East resident Hinkel 
failed to win her hall, which voted 
42 to 36 for Cooke's ticket. 
Pugliano takes OC senate race 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
Fred Pugliano defeated Eileen Hartigan in a run-off election for 
off-campus  senator  held  two  
weeks ago.  
Of the 227 total  votes  cast,  

Pugliano garnered 13.2 while 8~ votes went to Hartigan. Write-in candidates received the remain­ing 1 0 votes. 
Hartigan said although she: did not expect many people to vote the day before spring break, she was disappointed more did not vote. 
"I'm always disappointed when people don't vote but then gripe about the senate not doing anything," she said. 
Pugliano was not available for comment. 

• The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 2 
In Brief ND is in communication rut 
Becky Bruick, a graduate student of music at Notre Dame, has won the 27th annual National Organ Playing Competition sponsored by the First Presbyterian Church of Fort Wayne, Ind. Bruick, the winner from a field of 46 organists, was awarded n,ooo and will be featured in an April 15 recital in the church's Music Series. · The Observer 
Two faculty members in Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters have been awarded stipends from the National En­dowment for the Humanities. Richard Foley, chairman and associate professor of philosophy, will develop a general characterization of rationality, while Ethan Haimo, associate professor of music, will examine the early period of Schoenberg's twelve-tone music. · The Observer 
Barbara Blum, a Saint Mary's sophomore, was elected president of the Indiana Association of Nursing Students in early March. A Chicago native, Blum also has been an elected officer ofthe Saint Mary's Chapter ofthe Student Nurses Association. ·The Obser­
ver 
New directors ofNotre Dame's Foreign Study Programs in Angers and Innsbruck have been chosen for 1986-87. Norlin Rueschhoff, professor of accountancy and a faculty member since 1969, will direct the Innsbruck program. Michael Palo, a new faculty member, will head the Angers program. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
A new prose publication, as yet to be named, will be published featuring the work of creative writing classes, al-_ though the publication is open to all students. Stories must be sub­mitted by Monday, April 7 at 4 p.m. to Room 309 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. Entries for the Richard T. Sullivan Award for Fiction Writing will be automatically eligible. All entries must be typed and sub­mitted in duplicate. Interested students may contact Professor Wil­liam O'Rourke at 239· 7377 for more information. · The Observer 
Bookstore Basketball commissioners 
will hold a meeting for students interested in being scorekeepers tonight at 8 in LaFortune's little Theater. For more information call Steve Wenc at 283-2506. ·The Observer 
John Reid, director ofthe C~NEL program, a volunteer program on the West Coast, will speak with interested seniors in the library concourse from 9 am. to 2 p.m. and at the Center for Social Concerns from 2 to 4. -The Observer 
Bikes stored by Notre Dame Security last fall will be released today from 3 to 6 at Gate 14 ofNotre Dame Stadium.· The Observer 
"Martin Luther from a modern perspective" will be the topic of a lecture tonight at 8 in the library auditorium by Heiko Oberman, author of numerous scholarly works on Church history. The lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame department of theol­
ogy. ·The Observer 
The Overseas Development Network 
will hold a meeting tonight at 7 in the Coffeehouse ofthe Center for Social Concerns. Plans will be discussed for Third World Awareness Week, to be held April 4 through 11. Interested students are urged to attend. · The Observer 
Weather 
It ain't Lauderdale, it's South Bend. There is a 30 percent chance of showers and possible thunderstorms today with highs in the low to mid 6os. A 60 percent chance of thunderstorms tonight and tomorrow with lows in the mid to upper 40s and highs in the mid to upper 60s. 


Design Editor .................... M<:lissa Warnk<: Viewpoint Layout.................Car.;! Brown Typesetters ...................... Suzann<: Hamm<:r Features Copy Editor........ Mary Reynolds News Editor.......................Ann Kalt<:nbach Features Layout.....................Carol Brown Copy Editor .......................Chris B<:dnarski NO Day Editor...................Sharon Emmit<: Sports Special Layout..... Miler Szymanski SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle 
The Observer ( l'SPS ~99 l-~l)()(l) is publi•hcLI !\lonLiay through friday cx<·cpl durinjl exam and vacalion periods. The Observer i• publi•hc:d b) the srudem• oflhe l'ni,·cr.il) of Notr" Dam" and Saini Mary's Colkjle. Subscription• may be purcha"'d for 1~0 per year ( llO per .em.,sr"r) by writing The Observer, P.O Hnx <)-:O.otre Dame:. Indiana 
~6~~6­
lbe Observer i• a member of lb<: Associated Press. All reprodU<'Iion ri!(hl' an·
,.,.,..\'.,d. 

One of my government professors cited statistics which showed that while the majority of Americans dislike the United States Congress, they like the in­dividual legislators who represent them. 
People also are much more likely to express actively their discontent with government than voice theirsatis­faction. 
What is true for the nation appears to be true for Notre Dame. 
Students often attack the administration that governs their lives, especially in columns and letters to the editor in The Observer. The students expound a dis­taste for the University's policies. 
As Notre Dame has become a more formalized in· stitution, student access and daily contact with individual administrators have decreased. While in­dividual congressmen have been able to prevent public discontent towards Congress from damaging their per­sonal popularity, Notre Dame's administrators have been unable or unwilling to separate themselves from unpopular policies. 
Thus, students attack not only the administration, but 

Joe Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 
For example, the issue starting to circulate is whether student government and the Student Activities Board should be on the Budget Unit Control System. If campus history is any guide, the administration will be the tar­get of unfair verbal attacks. 
How do I know this? 
History repeats itself. When the University requested The Observer join the BUC system, cries of protest erupted from newspaper personnel about censorship and undue University in­fluence over the newspaper. The University weathered the verbal assault, and The Observer went on the BUC 


specific administrators as 
system. Unlike the predic­well. tions of administrative med­Why is this the case? dling in Observer editorials, The average citizen sees the University has done ex­
his congressman as the actly what it said it would public's servant, while the do. It has insured financial average student pictures accountability and ef­himself as the University's ficiency. slave. Besides, if the administra­The perceptions ofthe ad-. tion wanted to shut down ministrator's and student's the newspaper, it could roles of each other do not easily do so. The Observer coincide with the reality. 'f-'}~~ has two loans with the Uni-
These perceptions over­whelmingly influence and reinforce the actions ofeach party. 
Administrators naturally assume students understand that they, in fact, are working in the students' best inter­ests. 
The students doubt the intentions of the University. They do not see administrators as either caring or com­prehending the students' viewpoints. 
In short, what we have here is a failure to commun­icate. 
This failure sterns from the fact that, unlike the citizen who is going to be a citizen for his entire life, the Notre Dame student is only here for four years. 
Each year, a new class enters the University and the the process of communication immediately starts all over. Any progress made in improving the relations bet· ween the administration and the students must begin again. 
Each year, the relations may be the exact opposite of the previous year's. In such an environment, a vicious cycle easily can form and once formed be difficult to erase. 
Remember, people are much more likely to note the negative and express their disgruntled feelings more frequently than positive ones. What is positive is often ignored. 
And when genuine, even beneficial, action is taken, this movement frequently becomes misinterpreted. The historical rut of administrative and student rela­tions causes repeated miscues. 
versity, is located in a Uni­

versity  building  and  
receives  invaluable  assis­ 
tance from University personnel.  

From the newspaper's experience, student govern­ment and the SAD would do well to join the University's system. What will happen, however, depends on what type ofcommunication takes place between the various parties involved. 
As spring enters the campus, fresh lines of communi­cation can be established and the historical rut can be changed. 
Administrators must increase their direct contact with students. By doing so, more students will realize most administrators do care first and foremost about the students, that administrators are human beings who try to do the right thing and that past differences can be overcome. 
Even if students still disagree, even vehemently, about University policies, the students will be less likely to have such a strong disdain for the particular ad· ministrators with whom these policies are associated. 
The ultimate question students should ask them­selves is why would anyone devote his entire life to this University, as many administrators have, unless he ­cared about educating students? 
In short, both students and administrators have room for improvement in the manner in which they com­municate to each other. 
Ifthere is to be any progress between administrators and students, both sides must have a desire to make some. What happens depends on how effective both are in communicating each others perspective. 

The Observer 
Thursday, April 3, 198.6 -page 3 
Saint Mary's Board of Regents seeking junior representative 

By MARY FRAN GISCH 
StaffReporter 
In search of a student to serve on the Board of Regents for next year, Saint Mary's has recently sent letters to juniors explaining the position and the application process, accord­ing to current student regent Anne McCarthy. 
"Once the student writes a letter telling why they are interested and qualified, then I help review applica­tions along with Dean of Students 
Mary Anne O'Donnell ... ," 
McCarthy said. 
"We recommend two applicants and Dr. Hickey (College president) reviews the candidates before those two are sent to the Administrative Board, who makes the final decision. 
The applications are due Monday. 
"My position as student regent in­volves much more than I ever thought it would," she added. McCarthy said the Board of Regents is the highest governing body in the College that sets policies and makes financial decisions. The student regent on the Board has full voting privileges. 
"I wasn't sure how the other regents would regard me since I am a student, but they were always very interested in what I had to say," said McCarthy. "They saw me as a regent with a student's perspective of things. 
"I don't think people realize how worthwhile to both the students and 
The ObocrVcriJuotln Smith 
He contended that the public pressure President Reagan to 

Deep to left! 
Tutu
Stanford Hall sophomore joe Torrez took a mighty swing ofthe 
impose limited sanctions, and said,

continuedfrom page I 
baton the North Quadyesterdayasbe andmany others enjoyed the 
"I am not appealing to him. I am ap­

beautiful weather South Bend provided students on theirfirst day 
resisted harsh sanctions, he said, "I pealing to the American people." 
back.from spring break. 
put my hopes in the United States on In Washington, State Department 
the people, especially the university spokesman Bernard Kalb said the 
students." United States does not believe that 

Sessions 

.!#~.., 1986 
Programs at !tome Programs a!Jroad
of 20'Nt Discount 

0 Over 200 graduate and undergraduate 0 Antwerp, Bclgium-lnt'l. Trade courses 0 China-Chine:~e
not including sale items 

0 Approaches to Teaching Writing 0 Oijon, France-French 0 English as a Foreign Language 0 Fie110le, Italy-Italian
0 Governm!'nt Internships 0 Leningrad, U.S.S.R.-Russian 
0 High School Programs 0 Oxford, Ellllland-Dmill<::'ls 
0 Intercultural Training Administration 
N.D.-S.M.C. 
Students 

0 Interpretation and Translation lnstitutf [! l')uito. Ecuador-Spam§h 
0 Language Courses 0 Trier. West Germany-German 
CJ The-ology Confe-rence • 
0 Literary Criticism Confere-nce Send more information·0 Parish Workshop 
~arne ___

0 Sacred Scripture Institute 0 Alumni College Addreu __________ 
niversity Park Mall and 

Susions 
-------Zit>•---­

Pre-May 19-June 13 
First-June 9-July II Call (20Z) 625-8106 or mail to: 8-Week Cross Session-June 9-August I SSCE-GcofBctoWn l'nivcniry 
6-Week Cross Session-June 23-August I 306 lntcreultural Caua 
Concord & Pierre Moran 

Malls -Elkhart Second-july 14-August 15 
Washington. D.C. 20057 

The hardest thing ahout break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the 
ing into professional also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: 
music is-well, break­not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort 
ing into professional abroad. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. 
music. So if you're Most important, you can Orcall toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY. 
lc x)king for an oppor­expect afirst-rate pro­
tunity to turn your fessional environment 
musical talent into from your instructors, 
a full-time perform­facilities and fellow ing career, take a ians. The Army 
good look at educational 
Army. programs that It's not can help_you all parades pr~y for oft­and John Philip duty instruc­Sousa. Army tion, and if hands rock, qual­waltz and hcx)gie as well as march, and they .-.."'•+n.-t'Y'I beforeconcert au diences as well ..~ro""~nlly~insured 
ARMY BAND.

as spectators. student loans. With an average lfyou can sight-BE ALLYOU CAN BE. 


the College the student regent is," added McCarthy, who is also Senior Class President. "Being in student government, as I am, is not a criteria for the position, as some have thought it is. We are hoping for many more applications for the posi­tion this year," McCarthy said. 
As a board member, McCarthy said she was expected to attend the Regent's three meetings which are held in the fall, winter, and spring. "We interviewed the final presiden­tial candidates at the january meeting in Chicago and made recommendations to the Ad­ministrative Board who made the final decision," McCarthy said. "It was a great experience to be a part of such important decisions." 
sanctions would help promote change in South Africa. He said the South African economy is a major force for stability in the region and that besides causing economic damage, sanctions would not be ef­fective in ending apartheid. 
Mandela had a jubilant homecom­ing in Soweto. She arrived with her fist raised in a black-power salute to greet schoolchildren and embrace neighbors. 
"I should never have been away from home in the first place," she said in the yard of the four-room house she once shared with her hus­band Nelson Mandela, who is ser­ving a life prison term on conviction of plotting sabotage. 
ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS ~nter for Teaching Non-VIolcnc~ Is seeking full-time staff. Lodging, $1 '50/mo., & health coverage. On~ year commitment with $2000 separation stipend. Public lntc:rat research and publishing on aggres­
sion, developing  courses  on  non­ 
violence  and  operating  National  
Coalition  on  Television  Violenc~  

(TV, films, war toys, sports, etc.). Next to University of Wlnols. Student loans deferable. 217-384-1920. Reaume to Thomas Radecki, M.D., Box 2157 Chamoalm IL 61820. 
Kaplan 
LSATPREP... 
BE OVER40 
&LOVE IT 
No matter what your age, ifyou plan on going to law school, a score over 40 can put spring in your step! 
'lbu see, candidates who score between 40 and 48 on the new Law School Admission Test enjoy the best chance ofbeing ac­cepted to the law school of their choice and going on to practice with top firms or corporations. 
At the StanleyH. Kaplan Educational Center, LSJIJ prepa­ration is a fine art. So much so that Kaplan has more "over 405" grads than any other test prep 
finn in the nation. 
Isn't that just the test edge your law career deserves? 
KAPLAN 
® 

5TANLEYH KAPlAN EDUCATIONAl GNTfR LTD 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
Call Days, Evemngs, Even Weekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend In 46637 (219) 272-4135 
For Information Regarding 
Over 120 Centers 
OUTSIDE N.Y. STATE CALL TOLL FREt BD0-223·1712 prepallltlon for the LSPiJ' 

j 011er 30 other standarlzed examinations 
------·~----~-------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 4 

APPhoto 
Mr. Ed dead? 

Smith. Rescue workers raised Mr. Ed from the bole through some rotted planks on a small bridge in and be was placed under the observation of a Norwell, Mass. as be was being led by ownerDebbie veterinarian. 
Firefighters aid Mr. Ed, a palomino which fell 




Air Force plane crash kills 11 crewmembers 
Associated Press 

MAGDALENA, N.M. ·An Air Force search-and-rescue airplane carrying II crewmembers crashed in a ball of flames yesterday in a desolate area of west-central New Mexico, and aut· horities said all aboard were killed. 
The HC-I30 plane was assigned to Kirtland Air Force Base at Albu· querque, said Kay Peterson, spokes· woman at the base. Ruben Leal, public affairs specialist at K,irtland, said the airplane was on a routine training mission. 
Rudy Chavez, state police dis· patcher in Socorro, said the medical investigator reported all aboard the aircraft were dead. 
"The wreckage is scattered over a mile radius," at the scene I 0 miles north of Magdalena, Chavez said. 
Bob Hlady, spokesman for Univer· sity of New Mexico Hospital, said the hospital's helicopter ambulance was dispatched to the scene but "did not come back with anybody." 
Joe Sanchez, a ranch hand, said he witnessed the accident from about IO miles away. 
"We saw a big ball ofsmoke, then another one, then a big ball of fire," he said. "It was a big old explosion· like a forest fire." 
He said he met sheriff's officers on the way to the crash site and went to the scene in an isolated area known as Bear Mountain. 
The wreckage was "spread in little canyons and little hills ... and little trees," Sanchez said. "It looks like a lot of burned parts on the ground, broken parts." 
A state police helicopter, a military aircraft and a helicopter am· bulance from Albuquerque were at the scene, said Sgt. John McAninch of the state police in Socorro. 


ALL CLUBS/ORGANIZATIONS 
FOOTBALL CONCESSION STANDS 
All organizations wishing to have a football concession stand must apply now. Winners and locations are chosen by lottery. 
CLUB REGISTRATION 

All clubs and organizations must now register with the Student Activities Office for the 1986-87 academic year. 
Forms are now available for: 
1. 
Registration 

2. 
Funding 

3. 
Football Concession Stands 



Pick Up Forms In Student Activities Office 1st Floor Lafortune 
DEADLINE IS APRIL 18, 1986 
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 5 





Seeking 1987 
Junior Parents' Weekend Chairman 

Applications available April 3, 1986 Office of Student Activities 1st Floor LaFortune 
Tbe best sales people make an Impact on their profession. 
They set high goals and achieve them. Not because ofluck, but because of motivation, desire and Intensity. Ifyou have the desire and self-motir,atton to be a winning sales person, consider Barnes-Hind Inc. 
As a Sales Representative for Barnes-Hind Inc., you can be part of the fastest growing, most dynamic segment of the health care market. And, you 'II be working with tbe nation's innrl!lattve leader in the manufaL'Iure ofcontact lenses, solu­tions and related t'lston care products. 

Your opportunity to make an impact on the vision care market Is now. Put your skills to work for an industry leader. Our representatives will be on your campus Tuesday, April 8, in the Student Placement Center. Contact your Placement Center immediately for consideration and inter­view appointment. Ifyou can 't make it, please send a letter 
of. interest to:  
Personnel Department  
Barnes-Hind Inc. 895 Kifer RoadSunnyvale, CA 94086  BARNES+tiND ~~~ IN<.  

Three alumni honored for service to ND 
Special to Tbe Observer 
Three graduates of Notre Dame will be honored by the Alumni Association in coming months for their exceptional service over the years to their school and to fellow citizens. 
The James E. Armstrong Award, honoring a former director of the alumni group, will be presented to Michael A. DeCicco, academic ad­visor and fencing coach, at an Alumni Senate meeting May 2. This award honors a current employee fvr long and distinguish­ed service and recognizes DeCicco's talents as a counselor for athletes, resulting in a high percentage receiving degrees. He is completing his 25th year as fencing coach and has recorded more victories than any other coach in the history of the University. 
A 1920 graduate, John T. Balfe of Sun City, Ariz., will receive the Father Edward Frederick Sorin Award at the June Reunion Ban­quet. named for the founder of Notre Dame and given annually to a graduate who has given excep­tional service to the University, Balfe will be recognized as the co­founder and past president of the Notre Dame Club of New York, the establishment of a pioneering scholarship program and place­ment service, his election to the Alumni Board and his selection as Notre Dame Man of the Year in 1943. 
Frederick C. "Fritz" Shadley of Cincinnati has been named the 1986 recipient of the William D. Reynolds Award, honoring a graduate working with youth to improve the quality of life. The 1 1948 graduate is executive director of the Workshops for Retarded Citizens and has been active on several University and alumni com­mittees. 

BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
1[5TN TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REiNFORCEMENT TC:ST 

• 
HQM[STUDY PACKET 


1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 

Engineering Week Trea•ure Hunt Clue: 
1. To determine where the 
certificate will be just search near a hidden ND. 
2. Do not look where you should not go, but don't let 
that stop you from looking high and low. 
When found follow directions on certificate. 
An Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer. 


Reagan orders probe into plane bomb blast 
WASHINGTON President Reagan ordered an investigation into the bomb blast yesterday that killed four passengers on a TWA flight to Athens, his aides said. 
"It is highly probable that the situation that occurred does involve violation of United States law and so it is appropriate that we provide in­vestigative resources," Attorney General Edwin Meese said in an in­terview on the CBS Evening News. 
"The president directed U.S. aut­horities to cooperate in the investigation," White House spokes­man Larry Speakes told reporters in Santa Barbara, Calif., near where Reagan is vacationing. 
Speakes said the president was notified ofthe explosion at 6:35a.m. 
(9:35 South Bend time), by Donald Fortier, an official of the National Security Council. 
The Justice Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Federal Aviation Administration were assigned to help Italian and Greek authorities investigating the bomb, which exploded on a Boeing 727 as it flew at 11,000 feet over southern Greece. 
The chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and a prominent expert on terrorism, both speakingprior to the telephone call claiming responsibility, said they believed the bombing may have been related to Libyan leader Moammar Khadafy, but neither sug­gested he ordered the attack. 
Terrorists may have set the bomb "to make us look impotent," said Robert Kupperman, an expert on terrorism at the Georgetown Uni­versity Center for Strategic and In­ternational Studies. 
"My instincts tell me that this is related to the Gulf of Sidra matter," said Kupperman. "In my mind, I see it as purely a retaliation." 
Rep. Dante Fascell, D-Fla., said that the incident, "coupled with the 

=-+' up..,.,.. ·W UL:W 
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 6 
APPhoto
Wood vs. nuclear power 
Rioters armed with heavy logs flee from police water cannons after attempting to scale the fence at the construction site of a nuclear power recycling plant in Wackersdorf, West Germany. 50,000 demonstrators staged a peaceful protest. 
Special StudentI Youth Fares to 
SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Winter Rates to Scandinavia New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip New York to Helsinki from $270 one way Chicago to Copenhagen from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $280 one way, $480 roundtrip and tours designed especially for students to the SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
. Youth and student travel experts for over a decade 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 Summer Fares Now Available! 

Bomb 
continuedfrom page 1 
news agency in Tripoli, Libya, 
asserted that it had "nothing to do 
with us." 
Ezzedine Kassam led a Palestinian 

revolution against the British 
mandate in Palestine in 1936. He 
was killed by the British. 
Christopoulos said the blast, 

which occurred at 2:05 p.m. ( 6:05 very real possibility of Libyan­inspired terrorist attacks following our recent freedom ofnavigation ex­ercise in the Gulf of Sidra, under­scores the need for prompt and effective action to combat the spread ofinternational terrorism." 
State Department spokesman Ber­nard Kalb said FBI and FAA inves­tigators are looking into the explosion, but declined to say specifically whether . the State Department believes it is safe for Americans to travel in the region. 
Vice President George Bush, who was briefed on the incident by NSC officials, planned to depart as scheduled today on a trip to the Middle East, said spokesman Marlin Fitzwater. Bush plans to meet the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Oman and Bahrain. 
In other developments: 
• 
a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Bill Carter, said officials were "monitoring the situation." 

FBI agents cannot go to a foreign country and investigate unless invited by the country, but they can gather evidence in cooperation with foreign agencies for presentation to a grand jury for a possible indict­ment. 

• 
the Justice Department entered the case based on several federal criminal laws permitting prosecu­tion ofsomeone who damages a U.S. aircraft overseas, said department spokesmanJohn Russell. 


The Comprehensive Crime Con­trol Act of 1984 empowers the department to prosecute a person who damages a U.S. airliner overseas and the offender Is subject to life im­prisonment if death results from the incident, said Russell. 
Other federal laws may also allow the department to prosecute the perpetrators for placing a bomb on an aircraft, committing a murder on a U.S. aircraft in flight over the high seas and assault on a U.S. aircraft in flight over the high seas, said Russell. 
a.m. South Bend time)blewa 9-by-3­foot hole in front ofthe plane's right wing. 
Greek officials identified the injured as Henry Simpson, 70, ofLos Angeles; his wife, Myrtle, 67; James Carlton, 29, an American; Eleni Phil­lips, 63, a Greek-American from Patras, Greece; Despina Siotis; 24, of Athens; al-Nami and his wife, Nala, 30. 
In New York, however, TWA president Pearsonput the number of injured at nine. 


' ~r
The Nazz Competition 
ts comtng ••• 
On Friday, April 4th 
you will compete for: 
*CASH PRIZES!
* A position in the Saturday shl!wcase 
performance (April 5th) *A chance to play with MAX WEINBERG 
Friday, April4, 7p. m.-12 North Dining Hall (a-live) Admission FREE 
Nazz Co•petitlon "Winners Night" 
Bruce Springsteen's Drummer MAX WEINBERG 
will soon be at Notre Dame. Max will first show a documentary film ofthe Born in the U.S.A. tour (made by 
N.F.L. Films). He will then talk about his experiences with Bruce on the road. And finally, Max Weinberger will jam with th.e finest ofNotre Dame's musicians chosen from the students at the Nazz competition. 
Tickets on sale at Ticket Stub for $3.00 Will take place Aprill2 at 8:00pm at Stepan Center 
MAX is coming Aprill2.
Saturday, AprilS, 7-lOp.m. North Dining Hall (a-live) 
Sponsored by the 
QUESTIONS? 
Student Activities Board 
Call Liz 283-2985

\ 
~~--------------------' 
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 7 
·ND, Fermi scientists put comet on record 
Special to The Observer the comet to 10,000 times the inten· 
sity seen by the human eye. 
Researchers from Notre Dame A new rapid-acquisition 

and the Fermi National Accelerator spectrometer has been designed to 
Laboratory arc currently in Australia allow the researchers to observe 
to continue recording Halley's changes in the components of the 
Comet on magnetic tape and 1 comet that occur in a time span as 
videotape at speeds they said they brief as a few seconds. Combined 
hope will reveal new information with a recently-improved Video 
about the comet's structural Data Acquisition system from Fer­
changes. milab researchers, the system has 
The group, headed by Notre been quickened to produce high· 

Dame physicist-astronomer Terry resolution digitized images. 
Rettig, recorded digitized comet 
images that were broadcast live During the Australian observa· 
from the U.S. Naval Observatory tion, Rettig said he expects to record 
near Miami In January. Unlike the at a pace of 16 digitized images 
Miami trip, however, more every 12 seconds. Digitized images 
cooperative weather at Mount of the comet, which can be 
Stromlo-Siding Spring in northeas· produced in color and black-and· 
tern Australia should provide white, appear as a bright dot sur­
several hours of clear viewing time rounded by concentric circles, 
each night. according to Rettig. 
The late-March-to-early-April ob· The researchers said they hope 

servation at the Isolated Australian the unique system will enable them 
site should provide an exciting look to gather new information about the 
at the comet, Rettig said. forces influencing the comet. Some 
Much of the equipment will be ofthe initial data they said they hope 

the same as In the Miami trip: an 1 1· to collect is expected to reveal more 
inch Casscgrain telescope, a Charge about the comet's structural activity 
Coupled Device video camera and and changes that may be caused by 
Notre Dame's image intensifier, the intense solar wind and magnetic 
capable ofboosting the brightness of field of the sun. 

MID .. EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
• Ve,.la""" .a ~al Dulwe FOODS SHAWBaltA ·IIUOBDERA. BABA GHENOUJ 
HOMMUS· FELAFEL TEBBOULI SAI.AD !lOUTH lEND • LEBANESB STYLE 
• 
Pita S""'•d Salldloidlu G VROS 

•IN¥1/ul 
l'lltlriu • Turlt.uh Co/fee 288-5639


Tu•• .Sal 5;JOPM . 9:30PM COMPLETEr."ATElfiNG FOR 838 Portage
PAP.TIES .I BANQUETS 

IOi.Discount for ND/SMC Students 


··gQowe!l~ fp!l oQQ oc~c:o~iohl~ 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolrtway 232-3354 
LOYOLA SUMMER SESSIONS 
Day or evening classes • Wide array of courses in Business, Arts and Sciences. Education, Nursing • All summer courses applicable to regular Loyola University degrees • Classes at the Lake Shore. Water Tower. and Med1cal Center Campuses. Special this summer: Art and Archaeology 1n Mex1co. 
FIRST SESSION SECOND SESSION 
(6 weeks beginning May 19) (6 weeks beginning June 30) Registration by mail or in person: Registration by mail or in person: MAY 12.9:00-12:00 JUNE 16,10:00-1:00 
2:00-6:00 3:00-6:00 
All in-person registrations in the Georgetown Room of the Marquette Center, 820 North Rush Street, Chicago 
Telephone 312/670-3011 or complete the coupon below to receive a copy of the 1986 Bulletin of The Summer Sessions. The Bulletin includes complete course listings as well as information on how to regis· ter by mail or 1n person. 
LOYOLA. REAL VAWES FOR YOUR MONEY. 

r~---------------,
I TfT[· IThe Summer Sessions :......I LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
I ._. _ 1. 820 North Michigan Avenue • Chicago. Illinois 60611 
I INAMf PHONE.-----­
ADDRESS 
I 
CITY STATE liP-_---­

I .JlNo are an equal opportunlly oducalorlemployer 11
L 
A.P"""" 

Workers destroyed barricades at tbe Subic Naval beat upon signs outside tbe entrance to the largest Base in the Philippines to end a 12-day strike. U.S. navy base in tbe Philippines to keep fellow Before barriers were destroyed, strikers said they strikers awake and to reduce tensions. Story below. 
Filipinos end strike at U.S. base 

Associated Press 
SUBIC NAVAL BASE, 
Philippines · Filipino workers 
tore down their barricades 
outside the largest overseas U.S. 
Navy base yesterday and ended a 
12-day strike that had forced the 
diversion ofa five-ship flotilla and 
strapped nearby businesses. 
More than 1,200 militant 
strikers at Subic held out a day 
longer than workers at Clark Air 
Base and six smaller U.S. military 
installations. 
Leaders ofthe Subic picket line 
agreed yesterday evening to go 
along with a compromise settle­
ment reached the day before, 
however, and the barricades of 
logs, rocks and metal grillwork 
came down. 
The militants retired on a note ofdefiance. 
"This ls not the end of the struggle of Filipino workers," said Larry Salazar, a leader of the union representing 22,000 workers who struck all the bases. "The next time we barricade the gates, we will make sure the or­ganizational weaknesses are overcome." 
"We have reached the limita· tions of our power," he told The Associated Press after announc­ing the leaders' decision to the strikers. He said the U.S. military and Philippine government would not recognize the militants, so "there is no point in us remaining at the barricades." 
Night-shift workers entered Subic soon after the barricades were dismantled. 



Businessmen ln the nearby city of Olongapo, who lost an es­timated Sl.2 million during the strike, had brought increasing pressure on the strikers to allow American servicemen off the grounds. 
Losses to more than 300 bars, restaurants and other businesses around Clark were estimated at Sl million. 
Bar girls and taxi drivers fought pickets at Clark last weekend. 
Twelve people were hurt in scuffles at Subic when the strike began, including servicemen and strikers. Four people were injured in the weekend melee at Clark. 
Sex slavery conviction overturned 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOUS, Ind. · The 1984 
conviction of a New Albany man 
charged with bringing Southeast 
Asian refugees to the United States as 
sex slaves has been overturned by a 
federal appeals court, officials in In­
dianapolis said yesterday. 
Judge Richard Posner of the 7th Circuit Court ofAppeals in Chicago, said he found fault with the trial judge's instructions to the jury and was critical of both the prosecutor's and defense attorney's procedures during the trial ofJohn Wolf. 
U.S. Attorney John Tinder said Wolfwould be retried. 
The case centered on the Mann Act · a federal law that forbids transporting a person across state lines for "debauchery" or "immoral purpose." 
Posner and Chief Judge Walter Cummings found the trial judge, U.S. DistrictJudgeS. Hugh Dillin, did not make it clear in his final instructions to the jury that lewd intent must have been Wolfs dominant reason for bringing the woman to the United States. 
The appellate court also criticized Assistant U.S. Attorney Paula Lopossa for asking improper ques­tions during a cross-examination of Wolf. 
Posner also called defense attor­ney Michael McDaniel's handling of the case "inept." Posner said McDaniel, of New Albany, com­mitted "forensic suicide" by ap­parently never objecting to improper questioning. 
"Defense counsel seems to have been paying no attention to the trial," Posner said. 
Judge William Campbell dis­sented, saying Wolfs actions were "outright shocking and disgusting" and said the "jury verdict appears more than reasonable and based on easy listening." 

~i~~~_()__i_ll__t___________________Th_ur-sd_~_,A_pri-13-,1-98-6--pa-ge-8 
Career Placement Center ignores practicality 
This story describes my experience with people who mindlessly follow rules with com­plete disregard for the real intentofthe rule or the rule's effect upon others. 
Charles Schrock guest column 
Career and Placement has a rule which states that if one cancels and interview after 
10:00 a.m. the day before the scheduled time of the interview then the student loses inter­viewing privileges as a punishment. This rule promotes attendance to interviews. Atten­dance keeps Career and Placement in good standing with companies and happy com­panies give more jobs which makes everyone happy. By blind enforcement of this rule, Career and Placement took a good situation and made it bad. 
Last Friday afternoon I learned ofmy accep­tance to a graduate school. No longer needing or wanting a full time job, I called Career and Placement to tell them I would not need the interview for which I had scheduled myself for on Monday. However, they informed me that I must take a "cut" and lose interviewing privileges temporarily. Since I still need a summer job and still need to interview, I could not accept losing any interviewing privileges. I explained my situation, that I needed to maintain interviewing privileges but wished to give my unneeded interview to someone who could use it and they once again quoted the rule. 
On Monday morning, still six hours before the interview, I took it upon myself to do the job that they avoided. I found someone on the alternate list and took him to Career and Placement's office. I again explained that I did not need the interview, that I could not afford to lose any interviewing privileges, and that I 
wished to give my interview to someone who could benefit from it. The solution only re­quired that Career and Placement not charge me with a "cut". Then I would be happy, a fellow student would be happy. The logic must have been too simple and straight for­ward. They still insisted that if I did not inter­view with then I would lose some interviewing privileges. I then asked if I could walk into the interview and then walk out. They stated that I would not lose any privileges for this action in spite of how bad that it would make them look, I then asked ifI could walk into the interview and introduce someone who really needed the interview. They stated that despite the fact that this op­tion would appear much more acceptable than me just walking out, it would not count as an interview and that I would lose some privileges. I am at a loss to understand their logic and how such a simple solution can com­pletely escape the grasp ofthose at Career and Placement. 
As a last reson, I intended to explain the situation to the interviewer and have her talk to the people at Career and Placement. But by this time, the alternate interviewee had become too disgusted with the people at Career and Placement. He just went home in disgust and I have a very nice but wholly un­productive chat with the interviewer. 

I do not advocate the casual breaking rules as a general practice. 1ery few rules have an intrinsic value, they only have a value for what they do. Before applying a rule, one should consider the rule's effect and the relationship of the effect of the intent of the rule. In this case, the effect of the rule, wasting an inter­view, contradiced the intent, to bring the most interviews to the most people. Career and Placement will hopefully reevaluate their enforcement of the rules so that similar problems do not arise in the future. 
Charles Schrock is senior in the College of Engineering atNotre Dame. 
P.O.BoxQ 
Notre Dame fails to accept minorities 

DearEditor 
"Life is a holiday. Let's enjoy it together" was the Observer's Quote of the Day on March 13. On the same day, a front page headline read, "Stations won't run messages of Gays/Lesbians." For the homosexual and ot­her minority students on this campus, life is anything but a holiday. 
How can we enjoy it together when the University ofNotre Dame, both in the policies of the administration and in the passive at­titudes of the students that makes these policies easy to enforce, sends certain messages to its minority students which are painfully clear? 
To the homosexuals, the message is: "You can go to school here.Just don't clutter up our airwaves." 
To the women students: "We'll admit you. Just don't ask us to provide you with the same services we provide for our male students." Or, "Don't ask us to do your laundry." 
To the black students: "We'll pay some of you to entertain us on the athletic field. Just don't expect us to be interested in your rallies or cultural events." Or, "Don't expect us to listen to your concerns," which were voiced in pan by nationally recognized speakers during Black History weekand which suffered from poor attendance. 
All these messages can be summed up in this way: "Just because you are here doesn't mean you are equal. If you are a homosexual, a woman, or a non-white pet!ion, you are not 
Doonesbury 
entitled to the same rights as, and are therefore inferior to, the average Notre Dame student." 
Occasionally, another message is issued, like that of Eileen Ridley, Reginald Daniel and Sandy Rossow, who gave up positions at WVFI and WSND in order to stand up for those who cannot be heard over their student radio sta­tions. Their message is this: "Some ofus refuse to ·roll over and play dead while our fellow students are being run over." 
Life is not a holiday, but together we can respond to these messages and demand that Notre Dame becomes a school that not only admits homosexuals, women, blacks and ot­her minorities, but accepts them as well. 
Leslie Scheuler Notre Dame graduate student 
Efforts by Healy aided volcano victims 
DearEditor: 

One of the main roles of the student body president is to respond to and serve the needs of the students and community. Often this service goes unnoticed. Well, it's tough to please everyone, to be perfect all the time. For those who feel that Bill Healy did a less than adequate job--why did you reson to the Ob­server to voice your opinion? Have you no backbone to confront Healy in person and voice your opinion? 
On Nov.17, a volcanic eruption and subse­quent mudslide destroyed the Colombiancity ofArmero. Being a Colombian and concerned for the welfare ofmy countrymen, I wanted to help in any way possible. Other concerned students imd I organized the Colombian Relief Fund in an effort to raise money for the sur­vivors ofthe tragedy. 
Being new to the complex world ofstudent organizations, I went to see the student body president. Healy received me cordially and was sincerely interested in my organization's cause. He proceeded to contact key ad­ministrators and other personnel whom he thought would be helpful. 
The end result, over S3000, was raised to help the Armero survivors. All this was pos­sible due to the hard work of Bill Healy and the various students who donated their time and energy. I want to thank all these students and especially Bill Healy who made all this possible. For those who may disagree with some of Healy's actions in the past, obviously you weren't there to make the difference. 
Ramon de Ia Torre Pangborn Hall 
Birth control a needed option for women 
DearEditor: 
I would like to commend Genie Wimmer on her article in the Friday, March 7 Observer, "Many lives can be ruined because of Cat­holicism." In fact, I wish I had written the ar­ticle myself as it accurately presents a picture of the difficult and potentially damning deci­sions a pregnant woman faces. 
I think that all those people who profess to value life should begin to focus on the problems which are present before the preg­nancy occurs (not just after the fact). Itseems that if pro-lifers want to live up to their name than they need to consider not only the life of the baby but also the life of the mother. 

In Wimmer's article, the focuses on the need for birth control. For me, an Epis­copalian, birth control is not an issue in my church but, if it were, as it is in the Catholic Church, I would find it inconceivable to deny women (and men) the right to choose when they want to have a baby. After all, creating a life is a tremendous responsibility. At the very least, the baby needs to enter this world as a wanted and loved child. Unfortunately, these circumstances do not always reflect reality. 
Is it so terrible to think that a woman may want the best for her child? The girl described in Wimmer's article could not offer her baby the aforementioned type of life. It's too bad because this situation c·ould have easily been prevented by a little knowledge and the use of birth control. I make my appeal to both pro­life and pro-choice supporters. 
Please, open up your mind to include not only the life ofthe baby but also the life of the mother. Those who are given life deserve a certain quality and dignity of life. To ensure this, please take the issue back a step and reach out to the core of the problem. That is, look at birth control as a viable and necessary option for all women and consider all other factors which contribute to the problem of teenage and unwanted pregnancies. 
I make my appeal to both pro-life and pro­choice groups because I believe that only through a shift in focus can we achieve con­crete and viable solutions to the issue at hand. 
AnnE. Rucker McCandlessHall 

·Garry Trudeau 


Quote of the Day 
''Judge not, and you shall not be judged: con­demn not, and you shall not be condemned: forgive, and you shall be forgiven." 
Luke 6:37 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
---. -­
---Ihe-0-b.se~~er---&.-=Y~ ---­
Ed1tor-on-Ch1el J·Je Mu''-''"'• ilusoness Manager En( S1 twu•!rmdnn
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219} 239-5303 
Managong Ed• tor Ktv1., Bee tter ControlfH Alex Von(1PrHddf V1ewpo1n1 Ed1tor Scott B•·d•t.•, Produc(lon Manager. CtHIS 811./o;IPf The Observer tS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Untvers~ty of Sports Ed1tor .Dt~nn1~ C· ".;~d' Photography Manager Jdnlt\~ Cnrro11 Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessanly reflect the pol•oea of the Accent Ed1tor •_.4 !',.I : • Advert1s1ng Manager Annp M Cu!hq._H1 adm,ntstratton of e~ther •nstitubon. The news 11 reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sa1nt Mary's Editor Photography Manager OIPW Sd~dlt-'f 
Executive News Ed1tor F•d'''" l•t'-1 Systems Manager 0dVHj HHH"Illl,
stble. Unstgned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
"News Ed1tor "!'"· p~; 8d·l.' GraphiCS Arts Manager Mark W•.••IT'hul! 
tanes. letters and the Inside Column present the v•ews of their authors. Column space is 
'News Eallor M..:~·~ Pdr'lt<· ,..o,sttavatlable to all members ol the commun1ty and the free expr8S81on of varying opinions on 
• non-votu1g members 

campus. through leners. is encou..-ged. Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
Thursday, April3, 1986-page 9 
Goodwill • • • what a bargain 

GERTIE WIMMER 
featUTI!s copy edttor 

W 
hat's red, white:, blue: and an adventure every time? No, it's not la~t night's entree at 
Dining Hall. 
it's not tonight's special at 
>ining llall either. 
big sign in front of the: 

will store: on Eddy Strc:c:t, and 
pre:tty symbolic of the: Goodwill experience, which is more: full of American adventure than an In· dianaJones film. 
"I certainly enjoyed it," said junior Mark Skolnicki after his ini­tial visit a few weeks ago. While at the: Eddy Street store he purchased a pair of gray, red and white size-54 boxer shorts. The shorts later sported the motifof"The Guild," section 3B ofAlumni Hall, during the Irish Wake. The: section was holding a wake: for "Big Ed," the: man who usc: to hand out towels in the locker room of the Rockne Memorial. 
During his first visit to Goodwill, Skolnicki also purcha.'iCd a tuxedo­type jacket to b(• used during the dance. llis reaction to the items· r~·rformancc: after the: formal wa.~ positive:. "Goodwill? It's great. The shorts I bought, and the: jacket, really made the: dance for me:, if not for thc whole section. We couldn't have done: without them, "said Skolnicki. 
Whilc most students aren't as enthusiastic as Sltolnlcki about the 
onc-of-a-klnd items Goodwill has to offer, Beverly Redding, manager of the Eddy Street store, admits that many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students do shop there, "especially during the 50 percent-off sales." 
"Most of the time students come in here looking for crazy clothes or jewelry for theme parties. For ex­ample, there must have been a Madonna party around somewhere after our last sale, because a lot of girls who came in bought black dresses and bracelets. We just can't get enough ofthat stuff in anyway," Redding said. Hawaiian shirts, shorts, hats and clothing items with paislc:y designs don't stay in the store long when school is in ses­sion, either," said Redding. The: store also carries a number of more conservative items that are espe­cially popular with the college-age crowd. "The furniture usually goes fairly well, although there are a lot of other used furniture places in the area. The other items that sell well are our long wool coats. It seems that many students aren't prepared when the South Bend winter weat­her hits, and they come in looking for thick coats at relatively cheap prices," said Redding. 
Saint Mary's student Mary Jean De Crane went into a Goodwill store this past winter for just that reason. "I was looking for someth­ing long and warm that I could wear when the snow was here, and I thought Goodwill might have some of those coats. They didn't, but it was still interesting to look around. They have: a lot ofstrange things there:," she said. 
Although many students find the wares at thrift shops like Goodwill strange, these shops carry the same type ofgoods you could find at Ayres in the mall. The first dif­ference with the shirts, pants and such at Goodwill is that they are usually second-hand, although the store does sell first-hand items as 
well. The second difference is that because most clothes aren't quite new, the prices are a lot more amenanblc to a student budget. The average price for a pair ofpants, for 
example, Is S3.25. Blouses and shirts range from S2.75 to S3.25, depending on the quality, and 
drCSIICS usually sell for S4.25. T­shirts can be bought for ap­



Goodwill is located at Eddy Street and South Bend A venue. 
proximately S2, and spring coats sell for about twice as much. 
Although these prices are reasonable, they arc: still too hefty for some budgets. So the Goodwill chain regularly has half-price sales. 
This sale at the Eddy Street store is usually held on the third Saturday of 
\ 
every month. Within the store, though, one can always find dif­ferent color tags, which signify some change in the original price of the item, usually a 25 percent dis­count because the item is out of season. 
A major reason why some stu­dents avoid Goodwill or other second-hand stores is that they question the cleanliness ofthe clothes. Redding explained that there is nothing to fear, because the Goodwill clothes are all washed or dry-cleaned in the main store on Western Avenue. That is the point where all the clothes collected from Goodwill deposit boxes in the South Bend area are cleaned and then redistributed. 
like the major first-hand stores, Goodwill changes its store stock with the changing seasons. "They're bringing in the spring line now," Redding said. 
Goodwill also carries a large supply of household items, like glasses, lamps, toys and records. In addition, second-hand stores are gold mines for collectors trying to find old and valuable records for low prices. The LPs at Goodwill sell for 25 cents, while three 45 rpms can be bought for that same low price. Ifone hurries he might even be able to catch the last Bay City Rollers album in stock. 
Sophomore Rob Luxem had some experience with the household section ofthe store when he ac­companied an old roommate to buy a lamp. 

"We found a lamp for him right off, " Luxem said. "It was looking for the lampshade that took an hour. And we never did find it." Lux em is philosophic about his experience, though. "I mean the lamp was ugly, but I realized that if I ever wanted anything. I could probably find it at Goodwill," Lux em said. 
And would there be a next trip for the Goodwill adventurers? 
"Definitely," said Luxem. "Ifyou drive me there," said Skolnicki. 
If one would like the Goodwill experience, he should drive to one of the three local loca­tions. Closest to campus is the store at Eddy Street and South Bend Avenue, which is open Monday through Thursday, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., Friday 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. and Saturday 9 a.m to 6 p.m. The main store at 1805 Western Ave. is open Monday through Saturday 9:30a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Friday until 7 p.m. and Sunday from 12 to 3 p.m. The Goodwill store in Niles, which caters to a more conservative, Michigan housewife crowd, is located at 109 
E. Main St. Their collection of novels, romance and otherwise, is considered larger than that at the Eddy Street location, in case one is looking for some summer reading. 
So, for those looking for some classic jams or who just feel like digging through stuffed racks of interesting vintage clothing. it might be profitable to check out Goodwill. Shoppers for bargains will be glad they did. 
~ 
The Observer Thursday, April3, 1986-page 10 
Golf team beats Lewis despite rain 
By FRANK HUEMMER The Irish blue team also had an Creek (home of Raymond Floyd),
Sports Bri~fs 

Sports Writer impressive showing by totaling 383 Biltmore, and Adios, which was 
The Notre Dame women's basketball 
team captured third place in the Women's National Invitational Tournament in Amarillo, Tex., over spring break. The Irish opened with an 86-61 victory over U.S. Internationalbut lost to Idaho, 67-65, in ovenime in the semifinal round. In the game for third place, the Irish rallied back to beat Duke, 74-67. Details will appear in tomor­row's Observer. -The Observer. 
Notre Dame women's sports teams 
clinched a second straight North Star Conference All-Sports Award by vinue of winning both the NSC swimming and basketball titles. What makes the feat impressive is the fact that the Irish do not field teams in cross country or softball, two ofthe six teams sanctioned by the league and used in tabulating points toward the award. -The Observer. 
The ND water polo club will host its annual spring tournament tomorrow and Saturday at the Rolfs Aquatics Center. Teams taking pan include Ohio State, wyola, Iowa State, Purdue, Kenyon and wuisville. Action is slated from 5 to I 0 p.m. tomorrow and from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday. -The Observer. 
The An Tostal mud volleyball tournament 
will begin Saturday, April 5. All team captains are reminded to check game times at the SAB office on the second floor of l.afonune. -The Observer. 
An Tostal co-ed innertube water polo sign-ups will be held tonight for those who have not already regis­tered. A team ofat least seven players, including two women, may be entered by calling Mike Roberts at 272-397I between 7 and 9. -Tbe Observer. 
NVA aerobic instructor applications will be ac­cepted tonight and tomorrow. Call NVA for more information. -Tbe Observer. 
NVA fencing and team tennis entries are due 
April 11. The fencing tournament will be held April 14 and I 5 from 6 to 8 p.m. in the ACC fencing gym and is for novice fencers. The team tennis tournament is a single-elimination event to be held April 19. Both tournaments will include men's and women's divisions. For more information call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer. 
The Notre Dame men's golf team traveled to South Florida in prepara­tion for its spring season anticipating the hot Florida sun. When they arrived to polish up their game, they encountered rain, rain, and more rain. 
The team came back to Notre Dame on Easter Sunday not realizing that it had gained excellent prepara­tion for the beginning of the season. On Tuesday the golf team defeated Lewis University on Burke Memorial Golf Course as the day began with sunny skies, but by noon dark clouds had begun pouring out rain. 
The Irish gold team finished with a total of 3 70. Steve Fuhrer and John Anthony carded 73 while Rich Con­nelly and wn Huffman scored 74. John O'Donovan's 76 and Chris Bona's 79 finished the gold team's successful round as it routed Lewis by 39 strokes. 
Meanwhile, Lewis University totaled 409 as a team and was led l>y Carl Ficek at 75. Next in line were Robb Bordner at 80, Joe Just at 81, Dom Canden at 86, and Tom Ar­duinoat87. 


Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 16 
us. Washington and Lee had played several games and scrimmages before playing us, and we weren't used to the heat (around 75 degrees most of the week). They're a great team, though, by far the best we've played." 
Jim Shields scored four times for the Irish, and Grote added two goals and four assists. Sophomore goaltender Matt McQuillan had a stellar game, making 26 saves and turning away several point blank shots. 
Friday, Notre Dame took on a seemingly outmanned Radford as Tom Ryan and Tim Hanlon both shot 76. Norm Campbell, George Molinsky, and Mike Culver carded 77, while Doug Giorgio had a 78. 

"When the rain came, we had smiles on our faces and we came out and played real well because we had practiced in the rain," said Notre Dame head coach Noel O'Sullivan. "I hope we never have to play in the rain again, but ifwe do the team will be psychologically and physiologi­cally ready to play." 
Six Irish golfers travelled to Florida to play some of the .best courses in South Florida. First they played the prestigious Doral Blue Monster course which has a par 72 and course rating of 73. They then advanced to wxahatchee which was designed by the Golden Bear, Jack 
Nicklaus,  and  has  a  par  72  and  
course rating of 73.1.  
Funhermore,  they  tackled  the  

very elite Mayacoo Lakes, another course designed by Nicklaus, which has a par 71 and rating of 73.5. Key Biscayne, par 72 and rating of 73, also was played by the Notre Dame linksters. The other three courses the team practiced on were Indian 
squad. However, a lackadaisical Irish team led only 4-3 at the halfand ac­tually trailed 6-5 heading into the final quarter. It took a flurry ofquick goals in the fourth frame to salvage the win. The Irish scored three goals in 48 seconds to ice the game, 9-6. 
McQuillan had 11 saves and a healthy Franklin tallied four goals. Shields had two goals and an assist while Grote contributed a goal and four assists. Art Brady won two key face-offs down the stretch to put the Irish in scorjng position. 
If O'Leary could find a dark spot during the trip, it would be the game against William and Mary on Mon­day, March 31. 
"We played horribly," said O'Leary. "We couldn't do anything well. We had trouble completing designed by Arnold Palmer. 
This is a very impressive list indeed. What makes it even more. im-pressive is the fact that the team practiced in torrential rainstorms on six ofthese seven terrific courses. 
The team had the option of not playing, but instead they all donned their rainsuits and umbrellas to play the challenging holes of every course. As a whole the team's num-­bers were extremely good espe­cially considering that they were hampered by the weather. The num­ber one player wasJohn O'Donovan who turned in some outstanding performances, tearing up the diffi­cult courses. 
This weekend the gold team par­ticipates in the Purdue Invitational Tournament. Teams from the Ten and the Mid American ence will be facing Notre 36 holes will be played on and then 18 more on Sunday. 
The blue team will travel higan to play in the Michigan Junior College Invita­tional. Notre Dame is one of the ten teams entered and has been run­nerup the past two years. 
two consecutive passes. As bad as we played, we fdt that we were still in it after three quaners (the Irish trailed 8-1 ), but we just didn't have anything left. 
"McQuillan had another good game ( 19 saves) and the defense played well, considering that they (William and Mary) were always at­tacking." 

"Outside of William and Mary," said O'Leary, "I was pretty pleased. We proved that we can play with some good teams, and we came back well in the close ones. I'm sure we learned from it and I'm confident we'll be ready to play on Saturday." 
The Irish host Wooster College on Saturday at 1 :30 p.m. on Cartier Field. 
I he f JIJ.\t'Tl ,., '''trt I),IIJU ctllll. t Itt\ .ltcd • •II Ilh Ilurd fl, 111r • d I.d, •rt IHh "'t lHil'lll ( Cllll"r .u. t l'(1h l l.i''llu.·d .uh t rll'lll).! lr• 1111 'I .1 111 1111111 1 I' 111 \It 11\11.1\ rhrc tll~h I rtdJ\ I ht• r Jh., •.,., cr '.11111 \l.1n .., ,1tfu, It ll .th d , 111 r li'. rlurd rlt ,, ,r ••I tiJ~g.u < ctllt·~t· (enter ,IC. c.t'phll.l..,...lfit d.., lrc1111 1..! '\II p 111 tlllttl '\ p 111 \1t•ll d..t\ thcnagh I rtd.t\ l>t·JdlnH· f,,r IH '\t d.l\ t l.t ...... tln d..,,.., '\pIll \II li.t..,,tfit·d.., 11111'( he prl'p..th.l c.· atilt rIll pt·r-.. tfl t If In 111.111 ( IJ.trgl ,.. IU l l'l\1 ... rwr II\ l' l h.lf.ll
Classifieds 
lt·r' t:r d..t\ 
NOTICES 
Typina Aval.lablc 287-4082 
TYPING CALl. CHaD 234-1199'7. 
Wordproccuina-Typina 272-8827 
TypiDjiiWO<dproc-lna 277-8131 
H.y, tlld you lrnow <lbout ,,. Olloener Production O.parlmml _,, tonllbl 
<116:001nll»o/flcwflfyoudldn'ttmdyou 
"""*for 1Mo-..ProductiOn O.pwt­"""'· you btul r..n.r -,_ <1rul r.. 
"""' 
1ST SOUBCl! NEW CAa SAlJ! APaiL liTH, ND ACC 
114 POUCID94-f 16,000 IIII.I!S fll,500 ND ACC APaiL liTH. 
PBO.TYPI!-15 yn. np. "'udenc II law papen, resumes, dlucrwlooa. 277-5833. 
LOST/FOUND l 
LOST,, Racquetball Jbquct and Prnaip­tion Sporu Glueca ncar Lyon's Hall porldna lot.lrtound calll528 or come by II05 Flanncr. yyyyyyy REWAI.D yyyyyyyy 
LOST A RED WOOL COAT AT SENIOR BAl. ON ST. PAT'S DAY IF FOUND I'LI!ASE CALL DEBBIE 4297 OR MY BRO (KEV) I007 THIS COAT REALLY MEANS A LOT TO ME -I'LI!ASE RETURN 
'-'Gold and JP'eeo bracelcc. Pic-call Kldly 3568. 
LOST, MY FAVORITE RED COAT--at Senior Bar St. Patrick's Day. If you think that you rniaht hav~ picked it up my mistake(maybe you have mine and I halve youn) pJcae return ir ro dJC' Bar'• Loer A Found Thai ilwhere I have returned youn. Or call me at X3731 
LOST 1/2 OF OUI. WAJIDIIOBE IN P.W. LAUNDI.Y ROOM. PLEASE RETURN IT... IT DOESN'T LOOK GOOD ON YOU. CALL EORKATI813. 
Found: A medium Jized black umbrella at the Grotto. If you arc au wet and need your umbrella, call Marcus at 1146. 
IDYIIII SO rM ALL WI!TIII SOMEONE TOOt; OfF WITH MY UMUZUA • TUI!ll. MAL 11 -AFrEa 9.30 CIA58 IN UO O'SHAG. ITS BLUE CLOTH, AIIOUT A YABD LONG, A WOODBN IIANDI.I! AND m GOT A CAUYING STaAP. A 1'B1END UOUGHT rr IIACit ROM LONDON SO ITS JaNDA DIPOBTANT. CJIION GDOIEABU.U:II DaOP rrOfF AT THE LOST AND FOUND Oa 330 BADIN HAll. THAND ALOT••T. 
LOST, 'IVHITE,SHORT 'II"'NlD COAT 'II"'TH GREEN PLAID SCARF TWO ID'S AND DETEX AT MR. D'S 3/19. ITS NOT EVEN MY 1D AND IT'S NOT EVEN REAL CALL CAIIRIE X3221 
FOUND, Middle-sized black umbrella at the Grotto. cau Muk at 1146. 
MISSING, LARGE ROUND ROTAI.Y SIGN FROM THE LOWER LEVEL Of THE SAINT MAllY'S DINING IIAU. PLEASE RETURN­NO QUESTIONS 'II"'U BE ASKED! THIS SIGN IS REQUIRED fOR THE ROTAI.Y CLUB MEETINGS. 
FOR RENT 
EXTIIA LARGE 4 BEDROOM HOUSE NI!AII CAMPUS. LOTS OF EXTRAS! NEAll BRIDGErs. 1400 A MONTH UNfUR· NISHED. WIU fURNISH IF DESIRED. CALL 272-8185 
6 BDIIM HOME. NI!AII CA.MPUS-272-6306 

fURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO fOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 
WANTED 

GOVERNMENT JOBS. n6,04G-159,230/yr. Now Hiring. Call 1­805-687-6000 Ext R-9834 ror curren1 f'cdcralllsl. 
I'm JICtliRI married at Sacred Hcan June 
14. Am looldna ror OJ l'or rcccpllon. Mus1 have eound system to cany Monopam Room In ACC. from Sprinpocen 10 llcnny Goodman. Call 313-761-8198 or wriiC 211 
S. Rcvcna, Ann Arbor, Ml 48103. WIU pay well. 
INTEilNATIONAL STUDENTS: Rcccndy Publlahcd, Guide To Grcencard From F/J/H VIsas. For Free dclalla, IIC11d refun­dable II (PAH}. lmmiJP'allon PubUca­llona, P.O.Box 515991, Dallaa, TX 75251. 
WANTEDIII All Obocrvcr Producllon Dcpartmen1 personneL Please come to tonllht's mcclln&at 6,00 In lhc olllce. 
ND SPANISH INSTI.UCTOR NEEDS REASONABU! ROOMIBOAI.D NI!Ait NYU FOR YI!AI. 86-87.CALL KEVIN 291-2878. 
HAVE fUN THIS SUMMER! ltcslderual Camp in Southwcatcrn Michipn ncedl couRSCion, lru.tructon, unit leaden and PI'OJP'OIIl dlrttcon. Call l'or lnl'ormallon and appUcallons. MUSI he 18 yn. a< older. Camp Chler Maldoabce, 8800 Black Lakc Road, Eau Claire, Mlchlpn 49111 (616)424-5272. 
RIDE NEEDED TO DETI.OIT AREA THIS WEEKEND LYNN 4121 
FOR SALE 

MOTORCYCU! FOR SALE 1978 SUZUKI GS550 EXCEL COND 288-4650 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT! 
NEEDHELPP 
Call 234-0363. 24-br. hOIIine, counscUna 
A &cc prqnancy tau. 
WOMEN'S CAD Cl!NTD 
OAII HOUSE, COLD BI!Eil a UQUOL CAAaY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N. 1 BLOCit SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
nEE COUPONS In the yellow_.of lbe Campuo Telepbooe Directory. UK them-,.1 
Dance and Pony wllh LAD EfFECT al CIDEIJS, Th, Frl, Sat 
Thank You SI.Judc for all your help! Plcuc continue to help mel 
Happy 22nd Birthday Flo! 
'DIANit YOU ST.JUDE.I couldo't han: dooe Itwithout your help. 
'DIANit YOU ST. JUDE. I could han: a..-dooe It without your help 
T-SHIRTS 
T-SHIRTS 
T-SHIRTS 
TO ALL THOSE KIND PEOPU! WHO OR­DERED SPUNG BU.U: fOIIEVEil T­SHIRTS THEY Alii! IN!!! PLEASE CONTACT GEORGE OR TOM IN 370 OIL· LON (PHONE 1854) YOU CAN PICK THEM UP NOW THROUGH BRI!AK SO DONT fOIIGET THEM! THE "JUST FOR PLEASURE'' SAU!SMEN 
HAPPY BIBTHDAY, MAD' JEAN! IIAPPYBIBTHDAYTOYOUI HAVE FUN IN COLOIIADO, HAVE PUN DUBING BIU!Aitl EI'OOY BEING OLD ENOUGH TO DlliNlt IN THE UNITED STATI!S, NOT JUST IN AUSTBL\1 OH FOa ONE NIGHT IN THE CAF1! PUB WITH A 
WJ!IZENI~kin~ freundln, 
Gml 
SEE YOU IN NOVEMBER WENT TO AI.UBA 

HILTON HEAD 86 On che road wllh Kalle, Joanle,a Usa. Tcan in Kokomo, Hello, 
D.C. Pctcnon? Furniture aboppna at the Phillip~ 66, Let's ace Tom ln Adanta..Ou Child' 'tlfrJcomc toSEA PINES! LooldJ111or a QF, old men, boya &om Acwua In plaid, Scvc,A sun. I out of' isn't bad. IJu, ma~ you should tty V. hcach. Freeze, HH vlcc. Bunny A Chico. PhWipi and ethics. No car bu1...., have GIL loJoanle llll11 walldnal<>lr 10 DC. Go DUKE Jay BW. fan Club! Oh well, It wu fun while it lalt~d. Thanka ICC ya oo HH thia: summer. Love Beth 
~r Procluc:doa Depa1meot Meetlaa 
Tollllbt • 6,00 .W blyout ........ !'~--odl 
SPUNGllMI! GIUZTINGS TO O.UB 7~, THE P.C.'S, O.UB 101, AND OTHEa COLOIII'UI. CIIEATUBI!SI (THill IN­O.UDES YOU DVIN). WJ!LCOMI! IIACit TO THE BEST LOCATION IN THE NATION! 'WHAT 101 IIOIIUDPI rr CANT BE SO, ST. LOUIS HOUSES NEV1!11 GET BaOJtEN INTOI LOOitiNG FOIIWABO TO THE BEST ' WJ!I!ItS OP THEYLUtiiDI.I.O DI!UIYI PI!ACl! AND LOVE••• DUZ. 
Novena to St. Jude 0 Holy St. Jude, apoodc and manyr, JP'COI in virtue and rich ln miracles, ncar kinaman or Jauo Chrlot. flllhlul lnlerccuor or all who invoke your apcdal paUofta~P! in time of need. To you I have rccounc and &om lhc dcp<h ofmy bean, I humbly bqwhom God has atvc 10ch power to come to my uatstancc. Help me in my urwent petition. In return, I promiK to make your name known and your cause to be inkvoked. Say: three Our Fathcn, three Hail Marya, and three Gloriaa for nine conaecudve daya. PubUcadon mUSI he promlocd. St. Jude pray for us and all who Invoke your namc. Thia novena hu never been known to fiJI. 
Thank you, St. Jude. 

AMNESTY INTEIINATIONAL mccllna loday .. 6,30 pm esc 
I'm looldna for a JUY wbo II looldn&l'or a girl with whom to share hil lime dotna fun thinp like gotna to the zoo, watchtna a ounrilc ,ftylna a Idle, KJ'otlerlna at 2 Lm., etc. even on weekdays. 
I LOVE YOU BABE!!!! HAPPY SIX MORE!! 
1ST souaa NEW CAa SAU APaiL liTH, ND ACC 
k POUCHE 944 16,000 IIIII.ES ....~ NDACCAPIUL liTH 

Thank you S!. Jude, St. Joocph, and Thcrnc for a favor. 
Arms Alii! ldnky, yeah! 
86 SUBABU f6,l43 86l'IEilO f9,m 86 GIIAND-AM f9,m 86 SUNBIBD fl,m 
86nam~JBD uo.m 
86 IIIU.CUIIY LYNX f',188 86 ESCOilT .'-987 86 OLDS CAI.AI5 f9,199 86 HOIUZON f6.~ ACC APaiL liiTII 
JOE OF 260 MORRISSEY! HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY! LOVE, MOM AND DAD 

TO DAD AND THE BOYS, MUNGA..MUNGA....WELL, BUENOS DIAS.... THANKS fOR A UTTU! SUN AND A LOT OF MOON!!!! Ll!TS PADRE AGAIN SOON!! LOVE, FNITA RITA II BE'ITY BUNNY 
OBSI!BVEa SWEATSHia'I'S AU IN PlcMC' pick up youn in the oftlcc today: CbrlsFonln 

LOUIE, LOUIE. REMEMBER THE ALMOST BIRTHDAY IN SEPTEMBER/WISH I WAS YOUR PRFSENT...HAPPY NINETEENTH...(GUESS/ C.) 
ATI'ENTION SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS, l( you arc interested in bclfll a day editor for 1bc Obecrvcr and have Wednesday and Friday afternoons free &om 12:30 10 300 plcueconw:1 MarJile Kenlen at 284-4425 or 239-5303. Thllll a paid pooldon a1 lhc SMC office at HCC. 
POST SPRING BREAK PAI.TY/DANCE HOLY CROSS HALL-SMC FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 9PM-2AM-12 ADMIS­SION OJ-FOOD SHOW OFF YOUR TAN! 

--~ ~~----------------------­

---------~----~ ----~ --~---­
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 12 
Three-point goals, instant replays 
~---clipandsave ·-----------------.,.... 
-td I

arrive on NCAA basketball scene ...l.fa.•AUGLES"' HOURS: DELIVERY 272-5455 *
500-Midnight 

Associated Press anything needed to be addressed it's NCAA Midwest Regional two weeks 
""~' NAUGLESWTQayYQRUIRIOQRM!! ~ 
still the foul situation at the end of ago was a factor in the decision to 
* 
r-­
t 
I I I I I 
l 
I 
~ 
! 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
t 
I I I I I I I I I I 
DALLAS-The three-point goal and use of televised instant replays to correct timing and scoring errors will come to college basketball next season, the NCAA men's rules com­mittee announced yesterday. 
Under another rule change, coaches no longer will be charged with a technical foul ifthey leave the coaching box to protest errors in­volving timing, scoring or alternat­ing possession. 
Dr. Edward S. Steitz, secretary-editor of the rules com­mittee, said the three-point goal, which has become a popular feature in the NBA, was adopted by the 12­member committee following a five-, year experimentation among 20 conferences. 
Three points will be credited for a shot made 19 feet, 9 inches from the basket. 
Steitz said it was hoped the three­pointer would ease the rough play underneath the basket and give more attention to outside play. 
"It's going to force teams to play more defense away from the bas­ket," Steitz said. "People will say 'you ace putting the little man back in the game' and that's good." 
Notre Dame head coach Digger Phelps, saying he was "very ­surprised" to see the three-point goal pass, was less than enthusiastic about the new rule. 
"It would be nice, one of these years, to let the game settle down and see what we really have. If 
THE "KAPlAN AOVAHTAG( OOESN T 
HAVE TO END WITH YO~ AOMISSION TO LAW SCHOOL' 
THE SAME SKILlEO INSTRUCTION THAT PREPARED YOU FOR THE LSAT CAN GUIDE YOU THROUGH FIRST YEAR LAW' 
INTRODUCTION TO LAW SCHOOL 
A~ii. .....SEMINAR 
A MUST TO SEE! 
''THE WORLD FAMOUS" WHITE STALLIONS of VIENNA 
ON THEIR "WORLD TOUR" 
MADE FAMOUS BY THE DISNEY MOVIE 
"The Miracle of the White Stallions" 
'llle ROYAL LIPIZZAII 
STALUONS 
Including ... THE AIRS ABOVE THE GROUND! 
All Seats Reserved $9.00 $2.00 Discount-ND/SMC Students/Faculty/staff OnSale at ACC Box Office 
(9am -5pm)­
THE WORLD'S GREATEST EQUINEEXTRAVAGANZA! 
games," said Phelps. 

Bobby Dotson, an assistant coach at Louisville, also questioned the need for the three-point goal. 
"The game was going awfully good. I don't see why they need mess with it. I can't understand why they would put something like this in. I think it's silly." 
Steitz said conferences experi­mented with different distances for the three-point goal before adopting the 19-9 distance. 
"Some conferences used the pro distance (23-9) and didn't find that desirable," Steitz said. "As a result of a questionnaire, most ofthe coaches preferred 19-9." 
Of the use of instant replay, Dot­son said, "I think there is a time for it to be used, but not on a judgment call." 
Steitz emphasized that instant replays would be used only to cor­rect mistakes made by scorers and timers, and not for any officiating calls. 
Steitz said an incident that oc­curred in Kansas City during the use instant replay. 
A clock malfunctioned causing 15 seconds to be lost during a game bet­ween Kansas and Michigan State and the incident was blamed for blemishing the Jayhawks' victory. 
~'When there is a problem area that we haven't addressed, we'll try to address it," said Steitz, athletic director at Springfield, Mass., Col­lege. 
Steitz said the committee also singled out several existing rules that would be stressed next season. 
They include illegal use of hands and arms during rough post play; ejection of players because of flagrant intentional fouls; illegal screening away from the ball; and three-second violations. 

Unitedway 

Full-and part-time Master of Business Administration programs with 9 specializations including MIS. Unique co-op work study program available for full-time students. Fully accredited by AACSB. 
Contact: 
UIC MBA Office 
Box 4348, M/C 077 
Chicago, Illinois 60680 
(312) 996-4573 

"Blues Master" 
Southside Denny and the Skintones 
appearing at 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday April3,4,5 Starting at 9p.m. 
20 oz. Mug of Beer $1.25 60 oz. Pitcher $3.25 

515 OtXIEWAV NORTH SOUTH BEND INO o 219-272 6600 
MEXICAN KIT~H~~. 
Taco ).09 1.69 
Burritos 

Bean I.79 2.49 
MeAl 2.39 3.29 
Combo 2.09 2.79 ChH:se 1.89 2.59 Make any bumto wet for 50 cents" P S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a 
pound of goodJes! Nachos & Cheese 1.19 Have some sauce for no extra charge to spice them 
up that much ITIOfe 

Macho Nacho's 2.19 Refned beans, chips. cheese, peppers, mild meat sauce. sp'icy green saucel 
Toslillda Grande 3.29 (In a she11 VJOnderfu1) R<g Planer Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Tostada Combo 1.59 2.09 Chile Ole' .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders Want it a special way just order II! 
Enchllad•'s (Platter of 2) Meat -lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 Chicken 2.50 
DINNERS 
111 Enchilada -1 chicken, 1 beef 
.,2 Macho Taco ,3 Meat Burrito .tt4 Cheese Burrito & Taco 

Complete With Mexican salad, retried beans, chili & cheese. guacamole. sour cream & a pile of chtps 
A dnm(>f w1th enough ll?ft over for tomorrow's LUNCH1 
4.79 

Plus tax on prices $5.00 mlr!tr.UJm order 
AM~~~~9~~4 ~~~~n~EN 
CUSTOM GRill£D NOT STOCK Pll..F.D 
Naugleburger 1.99 2 Patties with the works double cheese 
Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 2 Patties With lettuce, tomato, mayo dressing 
Hamburger 1.19 2 Patties with pickle, ketchup, mustard. onion 
add cheese 20 
DESSERTS 
Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawberry • Orarlge Blueberry • Chocolate • Chmy • VanUia • Root Beer Shake• 1.09 Sundae• 1.49 Fudge Brownie .69 Pastry .69 Fudge Brownie Sund•e 
1.69 
DRINK UP! 
Cold&ewraga, 
12 oz.-.64 20 oz.-.79 32 oz...94 
Pepsi, Diet Peps1, Root Beer, Mt Dew 
0. Peppe<. Welches. Sunkist. Lemonade Ice Tea. Milk. 0rangfi! Juice 
Hot Beveragn-.47 
CQflee. Hot Chocolate. Hot Tea 
SIDE ORDERS 
French Frla 
.99 
Retried Bean• 
.99 
with chill wuce 
.99 Nacho Chtps . Guacamole Fresh. Fr~. Fresh .89
.39 Sour Cream .25 Extra c:heese for anything .50 
'-'..._ 
Jllllllf"""
* 
* ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
"""-­
* 
Jlllllf"" 
'-'... 
* ~ 
""­......­
* ""­)llllllf'"' 
* * 
* 
""­......­
* 
•
* 

----------·clipand save·----------­
YOUR CHOICE 
MICHELOB 
R•~ U&ht or Dark 
JA ' 
8!.!....5 
299...., 

WEEKEND SPECIAL 
At South Bend Ave. store only 
Bud kegs 
112 BARREL 


~--------------------~--~-~ ~·~-~~-------------------­
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 13 

Aa 
AP Photo

From Gipper to Zipper 
Akron Unlr!f!Nity head football coach Gerry day ofpractice Tuesday afternoon in Akron. Faust talks to his players before the start ofthefirst 
Holtz 
continuedfrom page 16 
offensive backfield, where freshmen D'juan Francisco, Mark Green, and Corny Southall, as well as veteran Hiawatha· Francisco continued to shine. The younger Francisco was especially impressive yesterday before limping off the field with an apparently mild ankle injury suf­fered when he fell over a downed defender on a non-tackle drilL 
"That D'Juan Francisco had his best day out there since I've been watching him," said Holtz. "The play he got hurt on was just a bump drill, but I don't know yet how serious it is." 
Others being watched carefully included junior Tom Rehder, who was moved from tight end to of­fensive tackle, junior Alvin Miller, who was put back at split end after a trial run at tight end, and sophomore holdovers Wally Kleine and jeff Kunz, with transplanted linebacker Robert Banks and ex-offensive linemen Marty Lippincott and Tom 

Gorman  also  working  in  the  
trenches.  
Miller's  and  Rehder's  switches,  

meanwhile, seem to bode well for the futures of freshman Andy Heck and junior Joel Williams at the tight end slot. Heck has shown soft hands to go with his big frame, while Wil­liams has a good deal of game ex­perience in the role. 
The offense as a whole has shown a different look as Holtz has kept true to his word and mixed up the offensive sets to include just about every possible formation. In fact, all the Irish units ran wishbone and straight option sets as well as the usual 1-back and split-back forma­tions. 
EXTRA POINTS · The injury to DJuan Francisco was the only one 

KEG SPECIALS 
Busch $27.99 half barrel 
Bud $31.88 half barrel 
Augsburger 24/case $8.99 
Strohs 30-Pak $8.99 
CORKTOWNE' 
LIOUORS,INC. 
184~0UTH BEND AVE. 
Stare Road 23, 11• mrle west of Martin ·s Supermarket 
277-6805 

Matt Dingens, back at defensive tackle after getting the nod from his doctor that Dingens' illness had been alleviated. 
"We felt we had to make some decisions over the break," noted Holtz of the changes. "Rehder's an athlete and a winner, and we need help there inside. Split end may be Miller's best position with his size and speed. As for Matt, we'll just have to see. But it's always good to have anybody back." 
Dingens' return could be a key ad­dition to the 3-4 defense being shown, as he is one of a few ex­perienced players on the line. Man­ning that line yesterday were 

~~ N.D.-...-..-. 
ENIOR FORMAL 
rTUXEDO 1. 
l.ook Around n.....,. """ R•n• ~ ~L Desagners:
536 •M{J ........_ I Pierre Cardin --................ Bill Bfa"
I I 
Y.S.L., DynaMy, Miami Vice

Century Forma wear I 
(Who\ 
Evan Picconr?) 1622 Mishawaka Avenue 
287-5938 



Queen's Castle & The Knights $5student S 8.50 cumplet cut style 
MINUTES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Ceater See a tan In •lnute•... Not Hour• lronw lr St. RHd 23 Acron From Mertln'•l 
SAIL INTO NEXT YEAR 
WITH SUMMER COURSES 
AT JOHN CARROLL UNIVERSITY 
SESSION I SESSION II 
June 16-July 18 July21-August22 
Gain one year in one summer! 
• 
Business • Mathematics 

• 
Computer Science • Natural Sciences 

• 
Education • Religious Studies 

• 
English • Social Sciences 

• 
Humanities ... and others 


10 get our Schedule of Summer Claaeee, mall coupon or call (216) 397·4318 
John Carroll University 
Director ofSummerSessions • University HeJghta, Ohio 44118 
I  I  
I  I  
I  Name  I  
I  I  
I  I  
1  Address  I  
I  I  

suffered yesterday, but in the Mar. 20 scrimmage, fullback Frank Starns suffered a fracture above the ankle that will keep him out at least until fall practice... Holtz kept a group of players after practice to do exercises 
as a punishment for missing a man­datory team meeting. The last player allowed to leave, to the merriment of the entire squad who gathered around, was the coach's son, Skip, who is working out at quarterback to gain coaching experience... Holtz and his coaching staff will hold a coaches clinic Friday and Saturday at the ACC for coaches at all levels. Any coach interested should call joe Yonto at 239-7067. 
: City State Zip :
...._______ 
L------------------------------J 
r 
The Observer Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 14 
Irish track is successful outdoors, getting good times early in season 
The 1600-meter relay team of the 110-meter high hurdles and the
By PETE GEGEN Sports Writer Nobles, Tyler, McNelis, and Pearcy 400-meter intermediate hurdles. took third with a time of 3:12. Joel Autry was also a double winner, "These are really good early taking the long jump and the triple
The Notre Dame track team opened its outdoor season with two season times," said Irish head coach jump. Ron Markezich won the 1500­
non-scoring meets over break. Com­Joe Plane. "All of these runners meter run wind-hindered
ing off an excellent indoor season, qualified already for the IC4A's." with a the team posted some impressive Brian Driscoll, in his first attempt time of 4:04.09. Tim Smith placed times for these early-season meets. at the javelin this year, registered a second in the discus with a toss of 
toss of 19 3-0. In the triple jump, Rick 154-3, along with Chris Matteo in 
In Tuscon, Arizona, the team Meunch had a jump of 46-6. And the pole vault and Muench in the 
triple jump. Driscoll won the javelin.

faced Arizona, Brigham Young, Il­Tony Ragunas placed third in the 
linois, and Northwestern in the 200-meter dash with a time of21.96. 
Willie Williams Invitational. Jim The second meet took place last Plane will use all his runners in the 
Tyler won the 1500-meter run with Saturday, as the team hosted the tri-meet this Saturday against In­at
a time of 3:46, followed by Jeff Van eighth annual Notre Dame Invita­diana and Michigan State Wie who finished two seconds be­tional. Nicknamed the Snowshoe In­Bloomington. Indiana finished third 
hind. In the 800-meter run, John vitational for traditionally bad
its in the NCAA IndoorChampionships. McNelis and Roben Nobles both ran weather conditions, this year's ver­"Indiana was touted as the poten­excellent times of 1:49.21 and sion of the meet featured warm tial indoor and outdoor champs this 
1:49.77 respectively. teamperatures and a strong breeze year," Plane said. "We are definitely 
Van Pearcy placed third in the which slowed down the runners. going to pull out all the stops against 400-meter run with a time of 48.23. Mike Brennan placed first in both them." 
Miller to defend Dinah Shore title 
Skins Game and the Senior Panner. just take some time off and have a 
"After that kind of financial good time. 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. -Alice success, the motivation for the new "I expected a slow stan, but I Miller, the sensation of the LPGA season just wasn't there," she said. didn't think it would be this bad or tour in 1985, tries to end an awful "You stan thinking maybe you can last as long. 
stan in '86 when she begins defense 
of her tide Thursday In the Nabisco 

r ~ 
Dinah Shore LPGA tournament. 

We are an "I CARE" office 
Miller, who joined the women's golf circuit In 1978, blossomed as a player in 1985. 

COMPLETE EXAMS 
She wound up the campaign with 

coatacta,gla••­
four victories, including a three­

NOI SMC STUDENTS, FACULTYAND STAFF 
stroke victory over Jan Stephenson 

Show yoar I.D. aad receive
in the Dinah Shore, probably the 

20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS
women's most prestigious tourna­
ment. 

&eluding Specia.. 
But this year, plagued by inconsis­tent putting, Miller hasn't been in serious contention in any of the six LPGA events she's played and ranks 

• ProfessionaiVISion
ASSOCIATES
69th on the 1986 earnings ladder 
with S6,458. 
1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood
Miller admits her success last year 
234-2400
probably made her complacent. Her 
277-1161 
Martin's Shopping
earnings on the tour may even have 
South of U.S. 23

been surpassed by what she won in \.. Center ~ such unofficial events as the mixed 
"I compared Paralegal P.rograms and chose Roosevelt" • Largest ABA-approved program in the Midwest • Effective employment assistance-over ~00 employers have hired Roosevelt graduates • Choice of time and location-Day and evening classes in the Loop, Arlington Heights • Diversified graduate level curriculum-specialize in Litigation; Corporations; Estates, Trusts and Wills~ Real Estate: Employee Benefits or Generalist •STATEGUARANTEEDSTUDENTLOANS • RECRUITER ON CAMPUS ON 4-10-86 • Contact your placement office for details For your ropy ofthe Lawyer's Assistant Catalogue Lisa Larabee and an invitation to the next information session in Legal Assistant your al1!a, write or CAll COLLECT: Santa Fe Southern Pacific 312-341-3882---------------------------­In OOOjiCnliOD with Tho: NabonalCcn1cr !Of Panlcgal Tranu"'! ~-------------------------­~------------------------­C.ty ---------­S.att Z1p __ -­au.mc.. Phone------­ 

CAREERS IN MANAGEMENT THAT START IN MANAGEMENT 
The u. S. Navy Supply Corps has openings in training pro­grams offering early managerial and technical responsibilities. 
Qualified applicants receive 10 months paid training leading to irrmediate positions in one of the following: 

-B average preferred -Systems Inventory Management -U. S. Citizen 
-Age limit of 29
Acquisition Contracting -Computer Systems 

ANavy representative will be-Financial Management on campus APril 9th &lOth. Make an appointment at the PlacementA starting salary of .$19,000 
Office -or call for additional
per year, and up to $32,000 in 

information, toll-free, at:4 years with regular promotions and increases. 
1-800-382-9404 Navy Officer Programs TAKE CHARGE OF YOUR CAREER. 


ENlOR FORMAL 
TUXEDO SPECIAL 
Classic Black Tuxedo 

38.00 
All other tuxedos, tails and selection 

42.50 

·uErtS
~2Jw w'""'~""'"~'"'·'•" 

'"''' 

University ParkiMon.·Sat. 10-9:Sun. 12-5:30 
TODAY 4-6p.m. 
EXTU TIICII CIIST 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave Plaza 23 Center 
~a ~. 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS 
FREE. 6, 

Right now. you can get the hearty THURSDAY THICK ONE for only six bucks! A thtck 12·· PIZZa with pepperom. double cheese and extra thtck crust and we guarantee delivery 1n less than 30 minutes. So call Domino·s Pizza and ask for the THURSDAY THICK ONE. 
Our dnvers carry less than $20.00. L1m1ted dehvery area No coupon necessary Not vahd w1th any other oHer 

-~-----------------..,..--~ --~------~~-w----. 
~4(Jt~C3L~----------------------------------------T-h_u_rs_d_ay•'-A•p-ri_I_3,_1_9_86_.-P.a•g-e__
15 

IN F~r; !fe'5 &0/Nfl t:JVC!( /.115T­Mt~ 511?/ITE&Y 
WITH IJIU 1?16Hr
c::
-..., NOW... 
.(' \ I 
,._..

t:..· ~ 
~ -' 

~ 
HE'WENr f::ov./N FDR SPRIN6 BRE'AK IN 1'1'7/ AND RE'MAII'IE!:> IN A DRUNKEN STVf\:)R UNriL ,_ 
Y€'5TE"RMY MORNING. 

Interplanetary luggage mix-ups 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
SPONSORED BY: THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
The King 
Amadeus
and I 
Wednesday, April 2 

7:00, 1 O:OOpm


$Jlo®® Thursday,April3 $Jlo®® 
Friday, April 4th,Saturday,April 5th 
7:00, 9:30, 12:00 p.m. 
' 

The Daily Crossword 


ACROSS 1 Chats 5 Sri­
10 Musial or 
Kenton 14 Pot 15 Epic poem 16 Before phone 
or ton 17 Mexican War 
baHie 19 God of love 20 lunatics 21 Trade barrier 23 Metallic 
filaments 25 Rail 26 Hulled corn 29 Bangkok native 31 Fed. agcy. 34 Swiftly 35 Bore 36 Ancient 37 Expression 
of relief 38 Eat away 39 1944 baHie 
site 40 large cask 41 Mamba for one 42 Preceptor 43 "I -Camera" 44 Pinnacle 45 Produced 
In pairs 46 Ringlet 48 Caesar tor one 50 Forsake 53 Shawl 56 Nobleman 57 Cal. racetrack 60 Carry 61 Court champion 62 Mystery key 63 Khayyam 64 Fr. painter 65 Yale men 
DOWN 1 Reiner or Roy 2 Astringent 3 Entreaty 4 Reuben or BlT 5 Servants• garb 6 Arrange in 
a row 7 Yugoslav city 
<>1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 4/3/86All Rtghts Reserved 
March 20 Solution 
8 Smith or Jackson 
llED.SAlEPIS ITS 9 Water 
D 0 D 0 A M I N 0 P R 0 P 10 Sully 
OLAV ~t41i~ AONE 
11 Fired clay 
LIAMEDU K YAWNED 12 Highly excited 
-T.STUN­
13 Proboscis 
SESAM BEARISKIN 
prefix 
ANTI MARIA.IDA 
18 Chemical 
V E I L R A T A L S T E T 
compound 
E R •• VA R.W E A T 
22 Seethe 
DDIG EAR E D C LAS S Y 
24 Rubs gently 
-XMAS CLAN­
26 -Ia vista 27 Narcotic 
E u " 0IMIJ.clt~ I'E G s
S P A D V A L E S A L I E
28 Runnymede 
T 0 F U I R A T E K A L E 30 Seek's partner 
document 
A N T S S A T E D E N D S 32 Apportion 
3/21/86
33 Worship 35 Apothecaries' 
unit 38 Hemmed in 47 Beneath 52 Church part 39 Amerind 49 "Per aspera 54 Tablet 
ceremony ad-" 55 Small case 41 Chalcedony 50 Voice 58 Opposite 42 Coronet 51 Prosperous of pos. 45 Goat's cries period 59 Bronze coin 

Campus 
•2 
P.M. -CHANNEL, John Reid, director, Center for Social Concerns 

•3 
P.M. -Men's Tenols, Notre Dame vs. Toledo University, Courtney Courts 

•4 
P.M.-Lecture, "Reflections on a Medieval Studies Program," Father Ambrose Raftis, Pon­tifical Institute ofMedieval Studies, Room 715 Memorial library 

•4:30 
P.M.· Lecture, "God is The Name of My Desire: Religion and the Modern Writer," Dr. Alfred Kazin, the City University ofNew York, library Lounge, Sponsored by the English Dept. 

•6:30 
P.M.-Meeting, Amnesty International, Center for Social Concerns 

•7 
P.M. -Meeting, Overseas Development Network, Center for Social Concerns Cof· feehouse 

•7 
P.M. -Presentation and I>Jscusslon, "U.S. and SMC Relations with South Africa," Rev. Buti TihagalJ and Rev. Basil van Rensburg, both ofSouth Africa, Carron Hall, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by the SMC Peacemakers 


Notre Dame 
Veal Parmesan Ham and Brocolli RoU-ups Swiss Cheese Quiche Western Sandwich 

TV Tonight 
8P.M.  16  The Cosby Show  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Ripley's Believe It Or Not  
34  Money Makers  
8:30P.M.  16  Family Tics  
34  Mclaughlin's One On One  
- 46  Austin Bartin  
9P.M.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  
28  Thc:Colbys  
34  Mystery:  "Charters  and  
dicott"  
46  LcseaAlivc  

Dinner Menus 
9:30P.M. 10P.M. 
11 P.M. 
Cal· 

•7:30 
P.M.-Meeting, Rally Against Starvation, discussion of African Arts, Center for Social Concerns 

•7:30 
P.M.-Concert, Notre Dame Concert Band Spring Concert, ACC, Sponsored by the Dept. ofMusic 

•8 
P.M. -Recital, Saint Mary's Music Dept. Faculty Recital, Barrick R. Stees, Bassoon, little Theatre, Moreau Hall 

•8 
P.M. -Lecture, "Martin Luther From a Modem Perspective," Prof. Heiko Oberman, University of Arizona, library Auditorium, Sponsored by the Theology Dept. 

•8 
P.M.-Lecture, "Women Workers in Ex· port Processing Zones," Helen Sa&, University ofFlorida, Room 122 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by the Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Series, College of Arts and Letters, and the Dept. of Economics 


Saint Mary's Vcal Parmesan Turkey Pot Pie OPT Potato Filet of Fish Florentine 
16  Allis Forgiven  
16  HID Street Blues  
22  Knots Landing  
28  20/20  
34  Heritage Conversation with BID  
Moyers  
46  Manna fur Modern Man  
16  NcwsCcntcr 16  
22  Eyewitness News  
:Z8  Ncwswatch 28  
34  Body Electric  
46  PraJsc rhc Lord  

• 
Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 

Please, no food or drinks in Auditorium 

r 
I 
I I Thursday, April 3, 1986 -page 16
S~orts 

Notre Dame women's fencing team takes 3rd at NCAA championship 
By TRISH SULLIVAN contributes her success to regular with juniors Vittoria Quaroni and Sports Writer season bouts against her rival. Cynthia Weeks and senior alternate "Caitlin and I had competed janet Sullivan to lead the Irish to 
The Notre Dame women's fencing throughout the year," said Sullivan. their second place finish as a team. team recorded its best finish ever in "And I have been getting good Notre Dame advanced to the women's fencing history as the Irish results so I felt pretty confident finals after receiving the fewest captured second in the NCAA Cham-· facing her again. I had been training touches in a 8-8 first-round match pionships, losing to Pennsylvania in really hard for this year. I have been against Wisconsin. Perhaps the key the championship round, 8-6. Their in a lot ofOlympic and national com­point in the competition however previous best was last year's ninth petitions, but winning this one came when the Irish found them­place finish. In addition, sophomore showed me how important the col­selves struggling against a tough Molly Sullivan copped top honors in lege level of competition is too. It Columbia-Barnard team. the individual competition compil­feels really good." Alternate janet Sullivan was called ing a perfect 15-0 slate. in to take a crucial match, 5-2, which 
-l. "Molly simply dominated the spurred the team to a 9-7 victory in The tournament held tournament," said Irish head coach the semifinals. The Irish then went
was over break at Princeton, N.j., with 12 Yves Auriol. "She fenced superbly on to lose to Pennsylvania in the schools competing overall. and showed great maturity bout championship round 8-6. 
Sullivan slashed her way through after bout. "I am very proud of these girls," the competition over the weekend "I am also very happy with the said Auriol. "They worked hard all to capture the title after a fifth place 11th place finish by (freshman) year and were beaten by a fantastic finish last season. The fencing sensa­Janice Hynes. This is certainly a team. But we are young and the 
tion from Massachussetts placed hig­good indication of things to come majority ofthe squad is returning, so her than last year's champion, from her". we look for even better finishes in Caitlin Bilodeaux of Columbia, and Hynes and Sullivan combined the future." 
Bookstore Basketball begins today 
lb~ Obsen·cr/Grcg Srrangtt 

New Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz used the 12-day spring break to put together the final pieces of the squad that he
with annual Hall of Fame contest 
and his staff plan to work with for the remainder of the season.
By MIKE CARDINALE epitomizes the lighthearted spirit of member of the Sarin championship 
Marty Burns details the team's practice in his story below. 
Sports Writer Bookstore, and past games have team. 
proved entertaining to all who at­With all five players having The basketballs are bouncing at tended. previous experience on the team, Stepan and Lyons. Notre Dame According to Wenc, "Switek and the Fun Bunch Finale is still the team 
Football practice starts 
Security is preparing to clear the Montanaro were the obvious to beat. This tournament could Bookstore courts of automobiles. choice. You don't have to prove to prove to be unusually strong, 584 team captains gathered in the anyone that they're funny." however, as at least three former 
as Holtz finalizes team 
Library auditorium last night to The newly elected Student Body varsity basketball players will play receive the familiar multi-colored President, Mike Switek, said "we ex­this year. Joseph Price will play for By MARTY BURNS any permanent changes until he had game schedules. These events point pect complete, total and utter Port-a-Pit, Tim Kempton will play Assistant Sports Editor seen the films, the squad that took to one inescapable conclusion -defeat." Vice-President Don Mon-for The Embarassing Stains and Jim the field yesterday proved the Bookstore Basketball XV has arrived. 
Dolan will play for Lee's BBQ The Lou Holtz era may have been veteran coach was determined to 
This year, the world's largest bas­Roundhouse. chanered last Nov. 28, but it really have his team settled and ready to ketball tournament will involve 584 Bookstore Other teams to watch, returning only began yesterday afternoon on begin serious training after break. teams in 583 games over a three from last year's final 16, are Tequila the practice field behind the ACC. That team showed not only some
Basketball
week period. Handling the difficult White Lightning, a perennial power­In the first practice after a 12-day di\'erse offensive and defensive sets task of organizing the tournament house, Showtime, Let's Go Crazy, break over which Holtz and his as well as position changes, but best
XV 

will be a young, but experienced, WBBS w/Ed Smerciak, Tofu Chaka coaching staff kept busy watching of all to Holtz' eyes, the same inten­staff headed by the Tournament Khan, Four Fags and A Zahmbie and practice films, the new Notre Dame sity that had characterized the pre­Commissioner, sophomore Steve tanaro added "we do hope that they Much More Manhood. 
break sessions. Wenc. The staff includes five sop­really are a fun bunch." Neither The rules and regulations of the "Our mechanics, our awareness, homores and three commissioners Switek nor Montanaro were willing tournament remain unchanged from Spring ~d our sharpness was all there with previous Bookstore ex­to reveal any of their plans for the last year. All players are urged to Football today," said Holtz, echoing the senti­perience. "The staffshould provide a game, but it is certain that they will read carefully the rules pages at­ments he had expressed after the good foundation for upcoming pull out all stops in an attempt to up­tached to the schedules. One change '86 first scrimmage. "I was happy that years," said Wenc. set the Fun Bunch. this year is that later games can be we picked up where we left off. I felt 
The action begins this evening at Fun Bunch Finale is led by last played on the newly-lighted Lyons' mentor finally got a look at a team today was probably the best for ex­
6:1 5 on the Bookstore courts with years Tournament MVP, senior couns, easing the load on Stepan, entirely composed by his staff. The ecution that I've seen yet." the fifth annual Hall of Fame Game. Steve Treacy. joining him in the and simplifying the scheduling of previous five practice sessions, While it was more difficult to The game pits last years champions, backcourt is senior Pat Collins, cap­varsity football players. which culminated before the spring measure that execution yesterday as Fun Bunch Finale, against tain of the men's interhall basketball The tournament begins in earnest break with the team's first full opposed to last week's formal Switek/Montanaro and the Presi­champions, Sarin. The frontcoun is on Friday, with two days of prelimi­scrimmage, were geared mainly to scrimmage, it was clear in the play of dent'sMen. comprised of three varsity football nary round games, aimed at reduc­experiment at positions and to make several individuals. Among the more 
This game traditionally is played players, sophomore Tom Rehder, ing the field to 512. The first full films that the coaching staff could obvious areas in this regard was the just for fun, as a good way to get stu­and seniors Greg Dingens and Rick round will run from Sunday to next evaluate. dents involved in the tournament. It DiBernardo. DiBernardo was also a Friday. While Holtz had refused to make see HOLTZ, page 13 
Irish lacrosse wins two against stiff opponents 
ByPETESKIKO Franklin was hit in the mouth and Sports Writer received ten stitches on his lip. The injury forced Franklin, last 
Before heading to Virginia for his year's high scorer as a junior, out of team's spring trip, Notre Dame action against Washington and Lee men's lacrosse head coach Rich two days later. O'Leary expected 
O'Leary said that a split with the four Washington and Lee to be his team's teams that his squad was scheduled toughest competition on the trip, to play could be expected. and to play them without Franklin As it turned out, O'Leary played would make things a lot tougher. the prophet as the Irish won games After playing a solid first half, the against Virginia Military Institutt:.4 Irish trailed 7-4, but were not out of and Radford, while dropping deci-· it. They tied the score at 9-9 with 
sions to Washington and Lee and in seven seconds left in the third addition to William and Mary. quarter. But, according to O'Leary, 
On Monday, March 24, Notre Notre Dame simply "ran out of Dame used a 13 goal scoring barrage steam" in the founh, and lost the in the second and third quarters game, 13-9 . after starting tentatively to down "We worked incredibly hard to VMI by a score of 15-9. In the game, get to that point (the 9-9 tie)," said 
The Obeervu/Robenjoncs Joe Franklin had four goals and two O'Leary, in his sixth year at the 


assists, co-captain Tom Grote had team's helm, "and I think that the 
Sopbmore lacrosse playerjohn McNicholas looks spring trip to Virginia against top-rated teams. Pete 
two goals and four assists, and John conditioning factor took its toll on . 
to make bts move upfield in a game earlier this Sktko bas the story at right. 
Olmstead added three goals. Unfor­
season. Tbe Irish bad a 2-2 record in their recent 

tunately, late in the fourth quarter, see LACROSSE, page 10 

