--~-~-------~-------~----~----­

AIDS-page3 
VOL. XXI, NO. 18 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Gay professor claims ND restricted duties after public statement 
By MIRIAM HILL infringement of my rights as a 
Senior Staff Reporter professor. And I reject it (the limit) because it's dictated by prejudice against gay people and 
A theology professor has ac­against me in particular." cused the University of dis­Storey said he has filed com­criminating against him by limit­plaints about the University's ac­
ing the number of students he tion with the American Civil can teach after he publicly said Liberties Union and the American he is a homosexual and an at­Association of University Profes­
heist. 
sors. Professor William Storey, who Storey said the agreement he retired in 1985 and was one of now has with the University is the founders of Notre Dame's drastically different from the one 
graduate program in theology, he had last year, which outlined identified himself as a his duties in general terms. homosexual in an article in the Professor Thomas O'Meara,
Vice President George Bush speaks yes­in the area to campaign for candidates for March 20, 1986, edition of the 
who acted as chairman of the terday afternoon at Michiana Regional Air­Congress. Story below. South Bend Tribune. theology department last year, port as his wife looks on. Bush appeared Storey earlier had stated that said he was not involved in decid­he is an atheist in Fidelity, a right­ing whether Storey should be al­wing Catholic magazine. lowed to teach. O'Meara added,
Vice President Bush arrives here 
As a result of those articles, however, that the administration especially the Tribune article, was upset about "two stances 
Storey said, the University al­that he (Storey) took --atheism 
most did not appoint him to and homosexuality. teach in the 1986-87 school year. The University agreed in Septem­"I would guess that the deci­
to campaign for area congressmen 
By CLIFF STEVENS Republican presidential can­Michigan residents and busi­ber to let him teach 12 graduate sion had to do with both issues A.~si.~lanl News F.dilor didacy of evangelist Pat nesses who suffered damages students. and perhaps the first more than Robertson in a short question during torrential rainstorms that The students arc listed by the second," O'Meara said. 
On the campaign trail for Re­session with reporters. swept the state last week, Bush name in a letter Storey received Storey, however, said his publican congressional candi­"I think the process should be said the victims can expect some 
from Father Richard McBrien, homosexuality upset the admin­dates, Vice President George wide open," Bush said. "If he federal disaster aid. chairman of the theology depart­istration more than his belief in [~ush made a brief appearance decides to run, and I decide to "I know we'll be able to help 
ment. The letter specifically atheism. "The only problem is at Michiana Regional Airport yes­run, we'll meet head on." the nood victims. The question states that Storey may not take I'm gay and I had the nerve to 
terday. Bush said the prospects for his is degree," he said. 
on any additional students or admit it." said Storey, who has undeclared presidential can­Federal officials have in­
classes. 


Greeted by the waving of min­didacy were boosted by the spected conditions in the iature American nags and high results of Michigan's Aug. 5 pri­counties declared a disaster area school marching band music, mary election, which began a by Gov. James Blanchard, who Bush practiced his hand-shaking complex process of selecting has formally requested federal skills with the crowd of several state delegates to the national help, Bush said. "We ought to hundred. convention. have something on that very 
Notre Dame basketball coach "After all the smoke had soon," he said. · Digger Phelps exchanged a few cleared, and all the claims and The vice president said he will words with Bush at the airport counter claims, I think it's make his own recommendation and presented the Vice President conceded we did very, very well," after touring the nood-stricken with a gift. he said. "And that incidentally areas ncar Midland with Rep. 
has been of national importance William Schuette, R-Mich. "And 
After attending a private fund­to me because it's been picked that will help, but I think the facts raiser in Niles, Michigan for up and followed all across the are pretty well established now, fourth District congressional country. I don't believe all these so it's a question of going candidate Fred Upton, Bush left polls, but I'd rather be where I through all those procedures late afternoon yesterday for am in the polls than where I used that arc required," he said. Washington. to be." Associated Press also contrib­
Bush welcomed the possible Asked about the thousands of uted to this story. 
Terrorists strike at French again in assassination of military attache 
Associated Press Police said Col. Christian. curity zone, which extends 
BEIRUT, Lebanon A lone Goutierre, 60, had parked his I 00 yards around the four­
assassin using a silencer­car near the French Embassy story building and is patrolled 
equipped pistol killed the in Christian east Beirut at by embassy guards and 
French military attache out­8:30 a.m. and was about to Lebanese police. There was 
side the French Embassy yes­get out when the gooman ap­no immediate explanation 
terday. It was the latest of a proached him. why he did not park in the 
series of terrorist attacks on They said the attacker shot security zone. 
French targets here and in Goutierre three times in the 
Paris. head with a silencer­France, like most Western 
Anonymous telephone cal­equipped pistol and escaped countries, moved its embassy 
lers in Lebanon and France in a waiting green BMW. to Christian east Beirut from 
claimed responsibility for the Police described the gunman the Moslem western sector 
assassination in the name of as a tall, dark-complexioned two years ago because of fre­
two obscure groups and man wearing a white shirt and quent kidnappings and bom­
threatened further blows. beige trousers and believed bings. Switzerland and 
One demanded release of an to be in his late 20s. Greece are the only Western 
alleged terrorist jailed in Goutierre had parked his countries that still have em­
France. car outside the embassy's se-bassies in west Beirut. 
see STOREY, page 5
Such a limit. Storey said, is "an 
Coca-Cola will sell 
S. African holdings 
Associated Press Donaldson said the 
Atlanta-based company 
ATLANTA The Coca-made the final decison to Cola Co. announced Wed­pull out because it was dis­nesday it will sell all of its satisfied with progress holdings in South Africa in toward abolishing apar­protest of that country's theid. policy of racial separation. Final plans for the pul­
lout will not be completed 
Donald Keough, presi­for another six to nine dent and chief operating months, but Donaldson officer of the com~,any, is said the overall plan in­also chairman of the Notre volves selling off all inter­Dame Board of Trustees. ests in bottling and can­
Keough said in a state­ning plants in the racially ment released Wednesday torn country. that the company had been A Coca-Cola syrup pro­reducing its investments in duction plant will be South Africa since 1976. moved out of the country 
Keough was elected and the syrup shipped in president of the Board in 
for bottlers. May, replacing Thomas Carney. Donaldson said he could At this same Board meet­not estimate how much ing, the trustees altered money is involved. the the University's invest­The Southern Christian ment policy pertaining to Leadership Conference an­South Africa, but did not nounced in August that it divest. would call for a boycott of The soft drink company Coca-Cola and other Amer­plans to sell at least part ican companies if they had of the holdings to black not divested by Jan. 15, South African investors. 1987, the birthday of slain Coke products still will be civil rights leader the Rev. sold in South Africa. Martin Luther King Jr. 
~-----~ --~-­
Friday, September 19, 1986-page 2
The Obs~rver 
:In Brief 
Notn; Dame's Foreign Study Programs this year sent 4 I students to Angers, France, 35 from Notre Dame and six from Saint Mary's; 36 students to lnnsbruck, Austria, 33 from Notre Dame and two from Saint Mary's; 19 students to Tokyo, 12 from Notre Dame, three from Saint Mary's; and one each from American University, George Washington University, Tufts University, and University of Michigan; five students to Mexico City, all from Notre Dame; and four students to Jerusalem, two from Notre Dame, and one each from Seton Hill College and Manhattan College. No students ap­plied for the Cairo, Egypt program, though many students have recently attended meetings for next year's program, according to Isabel Charles, director of Foreign Study Programs. Charles said she could not speculate why students did not sign-up for the program last year. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's assistant law librarian, Granville Cleveland, has been appointed by Indiana Governor Robert Orr to a two year term on the State Board of Trustees for Museums and Memorials. Cleveland, who joined Notre Dame's faculty in 1969, is a South Bend Housing Authority commissioner and a member of the Board of the South Bend Urban League. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's Ireland Program will send 23 students abroad this 
year, 16 students from Saint Mary's and 7 from Notre Dame. The 
college's Rome Program will have 37 students, 30 from Saint 
Mary's and six from Notre Dame. After the U.S. bombed Libyan 
targets last spring. "a few parents decided to bring their students 
home (from Rome) since it was almost the end of the semester," 
said Peter Checca, counselor of the Rome Program. Checa said 
14 out of 64 students new home early last semester. Added Chec­
ca, "Italy's been pretty quiet since then."-The Observer 
A psychologist used a naked Barbie doll Wednesday as she 
testified at the trial of seven women who removed their shirts, 
saying the doll showed the next-to-impossible image women are 
taught to strive for. "Breasts like this would defy gravity," Melissa 
Farley, a clinical psychologist at the University of Iowa, said at 
the indecent exposure trial in Rochester, New York, of the women 
who took their shirts off in a city park three months ago. They 

are ch'lllenging a state law that allows men, but not women, to 
appear in puhlic naked from the waist up. The offense, "exposure 
of a per~on," is punishable by up to 15 days in jail and a $250 
fine. 
-Associated Press 
Of Interest 
Because President Reagan declared today National POW!MIA Recognition Day, a Tri-Military ceremony will observe the day at 5 p.m. at the south quad flagpole. Msgr. Francis will speak about being a POW. The ceremony will end with a retirement of The Colors and the POW!MIA fiag. -The Observer 
A Latin American Reception to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Week will be held today from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the library auditorium. Featuring a slide show on El Salvador, the free event is sponsored by Notre Dame's International Student Affairs and La Casa de Amistad. -The Observer 
An Unclaimed Bicycle and Property Auction, conducted by the South Bend Police Department. will begin at 8:30 p.m. at the rear of the Police Station, 70 I West Sample Street. The sale will conclude at I 2:30 p.m., or until all items are sold. Items to be sold include bicycles, tools, lawnmowers, cloth­ing. televisions, jewelry, and stereos. Proceeds will be for­warded to the proper accounts of the City of South Bend. For further information, contact Sergeant Robert Lanchsweerdt at 284-92 12. -The Observer 


Weather 

Odds-makers give thunder­showers a 60 percent advantage over sunshine today. However, high tempertures will range in the low 70s with lows in the mid 60s. The sun will make a come­back Saturday with partly cloudly skys and highs in the low 80s. 

-Associated Press 
=-Ihe Observer~­

Design Editor ........ Robert Luxem Sports Copy Editors. . Dennis Corrigan Design Assistant. ..... Chris Donnelly ....................Marty Burns Typesetters .......... Chris Reardon ................... Rick Rietbrock News Editor. ........., Jane Kravcik ...................Marty Strasen 
Copy Editor ........... Bob Luepke Typists . .........•.... Esther Ivory AdDesign . ............ Fred Nelson ND Day Editor. .... Noreen O'Connor 
The Observer ( l'SPS 599 l~•OOO) is puhli,hed Monday throul\h friday n<·ept durint~ exam and vacation periods. Th~ ObKrv~r is puhlishel.l hy the stuc.knt~ofthe 1'niver!'lit) 
of Notre Dame and Saint Muy's College. Subscription' may he purchased for JW per year ( JlO per semester) by writing The Observer, 1'.(J. Box Q. :-lotre Dame. lnd1ana •M'\6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reprodu<'tion right' are 
r~srrva.l . 


• CLUB PRESIDENT'S 
•



MEETING
• 
• Monday, September.22, 1986
• 
Library Auditorium 
• 
7:30-8:30 p.m. 
• 
Important Information Penalty If Not In AHendance 
•
•. 


Distributor For 
1/iountain r.1an Nut 
Will be opening a store in the newly remodeled Lafortune Student Center. We are now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Stqre Manager 2 Part-Time In Stqre Sales Peqple Assistant Stqre Manager 4 Outside Sales Peqple -will work around class schedules­

¢ 
---
~,.,.""'-::Applications are now being accepted at the Student Activities Office. Interviews will be conducted on September 18th and 19th on the Notre Dame campus.
• 


Friday, September 19, 1986-page 3 
AIDS will eventually touch student lives: SMC lecturer 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's F:cfitor 
Aquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome can and will confront Saint Mary's students in their later careers, said Ella Harmeyer of the Saint Mary's Nursing De­partment yesterday at a lecture in Stapleton Lounge. 
Harmeyer said not one Saint Mary's nursing student has cared for an AIDS patient because stu­dents risk contracting the dis­ease in which· case the college risks a lawsuit. 
"Students are trained to care 
Soft 


Contact Lenses $19.86 


Daily or Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to  Call for an appointment today.  
the contact lenses you have  You'll see better for less.  Dr.  
always wanted at a price anyone  Tavel's Premium Optical has  
can afford! For a limited time  been caring for eyes for over 40  
Dr. David Tavel has reduced the  years with 32 loc:ltions in  
price of Softmate daily or  Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the  
extended wear contact lenses to  care of your family's eyes to  
an unheard of price of  Indiana's largest, oldest and  
$19.8 6. *  most trusted name in eyecare?  

OFFER EXPIRES OCTOBER 31, 1986 
•Exam is required at the time of purchase and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orders and may not be combined with anv other discount. 
Providers for all insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servin.e Indiana's evecare needs for over 40 years. We carry on a tradition of excellence that is unsurpassed. And that's a promise from the doctor." 
a~
_:..:.--­

medical and emotional aspects of the disease," she said. 
"One student who graduated two years ago was assigned to care for an AIDS patient. She ex­pressed her concern to me about it, and surprisingly she was not worried about her own safety. She thought the patient deserved nursing attention from the most competent, experienced nurse instead of herself simply be­cause she was the last one who was hired," said Harmeyer. 
Education majors, social work majors and medical technicians should have some informed decisions about what will 
'Man learns aggression after birth' 
By ERIC M. BERGAMO 
Staff Reporter 
People are not born with ag­gression, but learn aggression when they are young. according to anthropologist Ashley Mon­tagu. 
Montagu spoke on the topic of human aggression during a lec­ture in the library auditorium last night. The lecture was the first in the Exxon,Distinguished Visit­ing Scholars Program and was sponsored by the anthropology department. 
"There is no innate aggression in human beings, that we use this as an excuse. Then people 
IRISH GARDENS "The SYR Headquarters" We have new low prices­come in and take advantage of our weekend specials! Don't forget to order flowers for your weekend dates and dances. 
Notre Da•e Avenue Apart•eats NOWJIENDNG FORFAIL 
Completely furnished. balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features Move in hd()re 10/1/86 and get 
ONE MONTH FREE RENT orne,atllO NO Ave UU647 CaiiAayUme 
All FRESHMAN who purchased, yet has not picked up their FRESHMAN REGISTERS­
PICKUP: 

Monday-Wednesday September 22-September 24 Office ofStudent Activities 3rd Floor LaFortune 
published these books which be­come bestsellers, as they have become, and which they tell you we are innately hostile, aggres­sive creatures and we are born that way." he said. 
Montagu said that this aggres­sion is formed during childhood when the emphasis is on "beat­ing the child into obedience." The baby, when first born, has no idea of aggression and ·in­stead learns it through obedience. 
Montagu explained that pediatricians in the earlier part of the century advised that par­ents should never kiss or hold a child. 
sexual relations with male homosexuals. Women develop the disease in heterosexual rela­tions with men, according to Clausen. "No lesbian cases have been cited so far," he said. 
"Intravenous drug abuse and blood transfusions are other transmitting vehicles," added Clausen. 
"As far as saliva is concerned, it cannot transmit AIDS from domestic, social or work con­tacts. There is a possibility the disease is contracted through sexual kissing due to its more intimate contact," Clausen said. 
, 
,1 
"The experts of that time said that you never kiss a child at night when you send him to bed, you shake hands," Montagu said. 
Montagu said that people's re­sponsibility is "to make yourself over into what you ought to be and what you ought to be is, as a matter of fact, that you are nothing more than a deteriorated baby, who has all the potentiality for becoming a warm loving human being. It is your responsibility to make your­self over into what you ought to be and that is a warm loving human being." 
J-Board considers parietals 
By Rob Hennig 
Senior Staff Reporter 

Changes in the parietals policy are under consideration since being proposed at a Judicial Council meeting held this week. 
A committee headed by Stu­dent Senator Brian Holst, and in­cluding Judicial Coordinator Maria Cintron, Lewis Hall Presi­dent Kris Thompson, Student Senator John Bauer and Student Body Cabinet Member Bruce Lohman presented a tailored parietals policy to the Judicial Council. _ 
According to Holst, the pro­posed changes to DuLac include an extension of visitation hours to 12:30 a.m. on Sunday evenings, pushing back morning visitation time until I 0 a.m. during the mornings and elimin­ating "the possibility of suspen­sion or dismissal for parietals for first time offenders with a clean record." 
According to Cintron, the com­mittee will present and discuss the proposals at the next Student Senate meeting on Monday. Once finalized and approved by the Senate, "It will be presented to the CLC (Campus Life Coun· cil)," Cintron said. 
In other business, several council committees were formed. Brendan Judge will head the Legal Services committee. Currently, the committee is "try­ing to get a list of South Bend lawyers that would be willing to take legal cases" concerning cri­minal charges against students. said Cintron. According to Cintron, there is a need for such a service because the Legal Aid program of the Notre Dame Law School can only handle civil cases. 
Judicial Coordinator Cintron t;~lso announced her office hours. She will be available from 2 until 3 p.m. on every Monday, Wed­nesday and Friday and from II: 15 
a.m. until 12:15 p.m. on each Tuesday and Thursday in her of­fice on the second noor of Lafor­tune Student Center. 
would do in a situation where they might encounter an AIDS victim, she said. 
Mary Feeley of Saint Mary's Campus Ministry said, "At Saint Mary's we can make a statemnt about our own beliefs as the dis­ease comes closer to students and families. This is first and foremost." 
"The Church has not been helpful at supporting homosexuals. Few people in the Catholic Church are willing to speak out concerning homosexuality. AIDS victims have ·found support within the Gay Community,"' she said. 
Dr. Robert W. Clausen, M.D. Department of Biological Sciences University of Notre Dame, spoke about the medical 
aspect concerning AIDS. 

"Those people with an in­creased risk of developing AIDS have had thrush (a yeast infec­tion in the mouth), venereal dis­ease, an intravenous drug user, and older adults," he said. 
According to Clausen when the immune system has been ham­pered to the point where it is "down", there is an increased chance of contracting AIDS. 
Aids is transmitted through 
The Observer Friday, September 19, 1986-page 4 
Congress cheers President Aquino after she addresses joint session 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Philippine President Corazon Aquino, in a speech that brought a shower of affection from a 
joint session of Congress, pledged yesterday to take up "the sword of war" if peacemaking with commu­nist rebels fails. 
Mrs. Aquino, in the seventh month of her leadership of a major U.S. ally which was led 
r 
r for more than 20 years by Fer­
r dinand Marcos, offered thanks for the role Congressr played in changing U.S. r policy toward her country. 
At the same time, Mrs. Aquino, widow of the assas­sinated Benigno Aquino, an opposition leader in the last years of Marcos, appealed for help to build "a new home for democracy, another haven for the oppressed." 
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., D-Mass., said af­terwards, 'That's the finest speech I've heard in my 34 years in Congress." 
Members of the House and Senate, many wearing yellow roses symbolizing the color Mrs. Aquino chose for her presidential campaign, crowded the chamber. Scores of Filipino Americans were in the gallery crowd. 
Within hours of her speech, the House passed 203-197 a bill giving the Philippines a $200 million cash infusion to help deal with economic distress. The measure was sent to the Senate, where prospects for approval were uncertain. 
Some opponents sugges­ted the money be spent in­stead on improving U.S. mil­itary facilities at Subic Bay Naval Station and Clark Air Base. 
Mrs. Aquino underscored her policy of negotiating with the Communist New People's Army guerrilla movement but said, "I will not stand by and allow an insurgent leadership to spurn our offer of peace and kill our young soldiers and threaten our new freedom." 
"We face a communist in­surgency that feeds on eco­nomic deterioration, even as we carry a great share of the free world defenses in the Pacific," she said in her only reference to U.S. military bases in the Philippines. 
Invoking the name of Pres­ident Abraham Lincoln, Mrs. Aquino said, "I understand that force may be necessary before mercy. Like Lincoln, I don't relish it, yet I will do whatever it takes to defend the integrity and freedom of my country. 
"I must explore the path of peace to the utmost, for at its end, whatever disappoint­ment I meet there, is the moral basis for laying down the olive branch of peace and taking up the sword of war," she said. 
"Still, should it come to that, I will not waver from the course laid down by your great liberator," she said in another reference to Lincoln. 
Mrs. Aquino said the aim of the negotiations, under way in Manila, was to bring the in­surgents "down from the hills and, by economic progress and justice, show them that 
for  which  the  best­ 
intentioned among  them  
fight."  



, 


Philippines President Corazon Aquino leaves the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception Tuesday after Mass. Aquino spoke to Congress yesterday. Story at left. 
~******************* 
DOMER RUNS 



Sunday, Sept. 28 3 and 6 mile runs sign up at NVA 
*******************~ 
Career and Placement Services Presents 
Interview Training Workshops *Learn effective interview techniques *Discuss the interview process with an 
employer *discover what a professional recruiter is looking for *much more 
Monday, Sept. 22, 7-8 pm 
Tuesday, Sept. 23, 11 am-Noon All Majors 2-3pm 4-5 pm AllMajors 
Friday, Sept. 26, 2-3 pm MBAsOnly
THISBUD:S All workshops held in Career and Placement Services­



FOR YOU:. 
Memorial Library 
BUDWEISERe•KING OF BEERSe•ANHEUSER·BUSCH, INC.•ST. LOUIS 

----~~-------------~---­
The Observer Friday, September 19, 1986-pageS 
Tensions rise on eve of Schultz -Shevardnadze consultation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Secretaryof State George P. Shultz will confront Soviet Foreign Mini­ster Eduard A. Shevardnadze head-on today with a demand to free American reporter Nic­holas Daniloff, and is ready to cut short their summit planning session unless he gets a stafisfactory reply, U.S. officials said. 
In Moscow, however, Soviet leader Mikail S. Gorbachev yesterday denounced the cor­respondent for U.S. News &: World Report as a spy and suggested the United States had exploited the case to try to spoil superpower relations. 
As tensions rose, the Soviets exchanged barbs with the Reagan administration yesterday over a U.S. order that 25 Soviet diplomats as­signed to the United Nations leave the country by Oct. I. 
Shevardnadze, arriving at Andrews Air Force Base on the eve of the two-day meet­ing with Shultz, called the ex­pulsion illegal and also "a bad decision."­
In New York, the chief So­viet U.N. delegate, Alexander Belonogov, said the Soviets already had cut their mission to 2 18, which is I 0 below the demanded level. 
\burbasic 

problem: 
Physics Genetics Statistics Calculus Complex Numbers Analytical Geometry Stress Analysis Organic Chemistry 
Probability 
Gaussian 'Ihmsfonnations Differential Equations Titrations Electromagnetics Thennodynamics Fluid Mechanics Etc., etc., etc. ... 
But Bernard Kalb, the State Department spokesman, said Soviets holding visas were "well over the level of 2 18." He declined to give a precise count, and he accused the Soviets of disobeying the or­der, issued initially last March, by not providing the names of any departing diplomats. 
The U.S. spokesman, res­ponding to Gorbachev's statement on Daniloff, said the reporter was the victim of 
"contrived  charges,  a  
frameup,  and  there is no  
retreat from that."  

Kalb said the Daniloff case was Shultz' "priority" in the 
impending session with Shevardnadze. 
"This kind of behavior can­not but provoke condemna­tion, nor can it remain with-
Storey 
continued from page 1 
taught at Notre Dame for 19 years. 
Because the University main­tains a policy of confidentiality on all appointments and promo­tions, most administrators con­tacted declined to comment on why Storey's teaching responsi­bilities were limited. 
"We have a strong tradition 

YourBASIC solution: 

Introducing BASICALC: The new Texas Instruments programmable calculator. 
Now there's a programmable scientific calculator that solves even the most complex math, engi­neering and science problems in a BASIC way. The TI-74 BASICALC. 
Unlike most other programmable calculators that require you to learn a new, complicated system ofkeystroke commands-in effect, anew 
Your basic specs: 
• 
Operates as a calculator or BASIC computer 

• 
SK RAM expandable to 16K RAM 

• 
70 built-in scientific functions 

• 
Optional software cartridges for mathematics and statistics 

• 
Optional PASCAL language cartridge 

• 
Optional printer and cassette interface 


© 1986TL 
programming language-the Tl-74 BASICALC allows you to use the BASIC language program­ming you already know. 
But don't let the BASICALCs ease ofopera­tion fool you. It also has more calculating power than comparably-priced programmables. And a variety ofoptions, like software cartridges, are available that make it even more powerful and convenient. 
Stop by and see the Tl-74 BASICALC for yoursel£ In basic terms, what it really offers you 
ffi a ha,..in. TEXAS ., 
INSTRUMENTS 

out consequences," Belonogov told a news con­ference held one day after the State Department announced the expulsion order. 
here ot not making public com­ments about appointments," said Michael Loux, dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Notre Dame's faculty hand­book states that retired profes­sors are appointed to teach by a letter from the provost on a year­
to-year basis. The appointment must first be approved by the de­partment in which the professor teaches, then by the dean of the 
college and finally by the provost. 
Storey received a letter of ap­pointment to teach in the 1985­86 school year and expected to receive another appointment in 
1986 so he could continue to ad­vise the doctoral students who were studying under him. 
When Storey did not receive a letter of appoir..nent from the provost by May 1986, he con­tacted O'Meara, who was acting as chairman of the theology de­partment while McBrien was on sabbatical. O'Meara told Storey that he was not going to be ap­pointed to teach, but gave no reason for the University's deci­sion, Storey said. 
In July, Storey sent a letter to 
University President Father 
Theodore Hesburgh, asking him 
to overturn the decision and al­
low him to teach. 
Hesburgh's reply thanked 
Storey for his years of service to 
Notre Dame but did not state 
whether he could continue teach­
ing. 
Hesburgh was out of town and 
could not be reached for com­
ment yesterday. 
When Storey's students found 
out that he would not be teaching 
them, they complained to the 
theology department. McBrien, 
who returned from sabbatical in 
August 1986, negotiated the 
compromise that allowed Storey 
to teach this year. 
McBrien said he wanted the 
students who were studying un­
der Storey to finish their work 
with him. 
"My concern, and Professor 
Storey's concern, was for the stu­
dents that he was already under 
obligation to," McBrien said. 
McBrien added that he wasn't 
certain whether Storey would be 
allowed to continue teaching 
once those students completed 
tlleir work. 
McBrien said he did not know 
why a compromise was neces­
sary for Storey to continue teach­
ing. 
"Obviously, the change in the 
arrangement goes back to some­
thing that happened last year 
and I wasn't here last ·year," 
McBrien said. 
WE DO NOT CURl 
BALDNESS! 
Wehelpy-pow
thicker, ..........r hair. 
-Til• IINimMI .,.Mlnoxldii­
Aiter years of research, Hair Loss Center has an entirely new concept in the treatment of hair loss that produces visible results. Call for aFREE con­sultation to see rt your thinning hair problem can be SQlved. belore it's too late. 

HAIR LOSS CENTER 
703 LWW, Mishawaka 
Ph. 255-8808
c I>W-F3 p.m.< p.m.
:;,1 \\ Saturday Noon-4 p.m. 
,., CotidMt, CM1111tMrt 
-~---~---·---~---­
Friday, September 19, 1986-page 6
The Observer 
·Ne!t· -· Erasmus Booksc:,u<'· 'Iii tJIIJ7 \~,u bi lllhl• ;r 1027 E. Wayneo<'\0 -IOjll.. .. ' Tues-Sun, noon-6 {\0 ·...-~­1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy 232-8444 Veed ol: -•of priat boob boa811t. •old, ••an:hed  


: 0 DN presents : 
: All That Jazz: 
e Friday and Saturday e e 7:00and9:00p.m. e e Library Auditorium e : Free Coupons for Naugles e 
The OhS4.~1V<~riYaul t:. (k~sch!Jl~l"
Pearly smile 
Senior Meg McGlinn poses for her senior the photograph. Senior portraits will con­portraitas photographer Laura Lareway takes tinue through next week. 
Nuclear agency quarrels surface during Congessional conference 


Associated Press indicate ... concern over a tions on the company's oper­
ironwood liquors 
WASHINGTON The Nuclear number of years at that ating license. 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 
Regulatory Commission yes­facility," Zech said, respond­
~----------------~27~2~·7_1_44________________~ 
terday defended its efforts to ing to criticism from Rep. Ed­Zech and other commis­tighten regulatory screws on ward Markey, chairman of the sioners agreed that despite a contaminated nuclear fuel House Energy and Commerce some improvement. the Er­-~-""~""~ 
production plant that has subcommittee on energy win facility still needs to be been the sole source of fuel conservation and power. upgraded in the areas of for Navy nuclear submarines. cleanliness, radiological con­Based on complaints last trols and general operations. 
DUN & BRADSTREET~ 
But one of the NRC's mem­December from the Oil, "It seems to be a pretty bers said the commission's Chemical and Atomic sloppy operation. It'sjust not staff could have been more Workers Union, Markey's sub­up to the standards that we 
Corporation 
I
aggressive. committee studied NRC doc­should be insisting on," said It is "entirely incorrect" to uments on plant conditions Commissioner James As­say the NRC is not being ag­and concluded that the selstine. 
will present an informal presentation
gressive in regulating the Nu­facility is "the most danger­clear Fuel Services plant in Er­ous uranium fuel production Asselstine also said he had win, Tenn., commission plant that the NRC licenses." some reservations about the chairman Lando Zech told a way the NRC staff had Wed., Sept. 24
han­House subcommittee. The NRC has proposed four dled health and safety com­'The NRC record of moni­fines against Nuclear Fuel plaints at the 29-year-old 7pm-9pm toring and oversight would Services and put new condi-facility. 
Upper Lounge ofUniversity Club
President denounces 
All students invited 
All majors and undergrads
Democrats 
Reception tofollow 
Associated Press 
Refreshments to be served 

Mon.-Fri. Lunches starting at•••••••'2.95 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. ["res­ident Reagan, campaigning 
Celebrate football weekends at the 
across the deep South, ac­
Great Wall
cused Democrats yesterday of "political shenanigans" in 
Dinnen starting at•••••••.'4.25
Alabama and "stagnation, ar­
lar open 7 days a week 
rogance and the abuse of 
.....Tiun.: 11:30 ·····10 ..... Frt.-Sat.: 11 :30 LM•. J1 ,.•.
power" in Louisiana. 
S.. & Heild8yt11:30 L-.·10 ,...
Next to Rondall.s Inn 272-7376 the two states, Reagan hit 
In a I 0-hour sweep through 
South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland)
Democrats with some of his toughest political rhetoric and said losing the Republi­
~**********************************~ 
can majority in the Senate 
-it The JMD Performing Arts Series * 
would stalemate his 
~ presents :
presidency, confronting him with a "totally hostile ~ : Congress." 
: Bonnie Corky : 
Stumping in Alabama for Sen. Jeremiah Denton in his 
~ KOLOC & SIEGEL : 
~ 
race against Democratic Rep. 
. 
. ~ 
Richard Shelby, Reagan cas­
: in concert :
tigated Democrats for the po­litical disarray in the gover­
-it • nor's race that has split their ~ 
party and boosted Republican •"B 'Kl. ·
• onrue o oc IS a smger of enormous range, charm lt 
election hopes. 
• d h . " lt
-it an c ansma... * 
~ * 
In Louisiana, appearing on 
~ "They love Corky Siegel in Lincoln Center..." : 
behalf of Senate candidate 
~ ~
Henson Moore, Reagan 
~ NEW YORK TIMES:
blamed Democrats for the 
I LsJv
economic woes of the state 




50¢oFF I
~ Friday, Sept.19 8 pm :
where unemployment has 
climbed to 13.6 percent be­: O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's : ~~~ ANY FOOD ITEM I cause of the tailspin in the en­: Ticket Information: 284-4626 : 
expires 9-30-86 
ergy industry. 
_j
~*********************************** 





"ie~~_O_i_Dt____________~F~rid~~.sep~tem~~er19~··9s6~-p~age7 
President Reagan has declared September 19, National POW/MIA Recognition Day. 
These articles are being run to highlight the issue of Prisoners of W:ar/Missing in Action soldiers still unaccounted for. 
U.S. soldiers reflect diversity of country 
Who is the prisoner of war or the young Before volunteering or being drafted, man who is missing in action? he clerked in hanks and grocery stores, 
Simply, he is the nation -an American sat at office desks, pressed parts in a 'jfighting man dedicated to the principles giant factory or picked cotton and tobac­which made us free. co.

All privileges were lost 
Serving with distinction during World War II, he knew later of Checkpoint
Jimmy W. Kilbourne 
Charlie. He waded ashore at Inchon, new

in Vietnam captivity 
guest column the Berlin Airlift, blockaded Cuba and advised in Thailand, Laos and the 
Maj. Jack Butcher, wing safety officer His captors in Laos had one mission: Republic of Vietnam. He has been in and and pilot with the 22nd Tactical Fighter to get him to Hanoi alive. During the Collectively, he is a man of many out of prison camps in Germany, Japan, Squadron, learned about the importance grueling four month walk to Hanoi he faces:the guy next door, the fellow across or North Korea. of sacrifice as a member of the 4th Allied received some makeshift treatment for the country. He is near and he is far. In Southeast Asia, he served aboard Prisoner of War Wing in Hanoi for two his open wounds and leg injuries. He is of many faiths and philosophies. Navy patrol boats or carried a rifte as a years during the Vietnam War. He didn't see another American until He worships as a Catholic, Jew, Protes­Marine or Army infantryman. He new 
he reached Hanoi, and it was there at the tant or maybe a Buddhist -or maybe he helicoptors, transport aircraft and POW camp that he finally felt like he was does not worship at all. fighters for the Air Force, Army, Marine
Ssgt. Anita Bailey 
a part of the military, he said. His home is the car-choked streets of Corps and Navy. As one of the POWs and New York from Park Avenue to Harlem, MIAs, he was shot down, ambushed,
guest column 
the wooded hills of Appalachia, the cutoff, or kidnapped. He has lived in cap­
"Before that my military career had brown-white sands of Miami Beach or the tivity many years. But he continues to
been somewhat ofa blue. But when I got sunsplashed shore of Malibu -every state serve.
"What I learned, what so many of my to Hanoi, the senior American officers• 

colleagues learned, is that the only way to keep the freedom we cherish and defend is through sacrifice, "he said. "Like all beliefs and ideals we place a high value upon. it must be earned through a price paid by someone. Today's remembrance of POWs and MIAs recalls the price paid and still being paid by all POWs and MIAs, their families and anyone who has sacrificed in the name of freedom." 
Butcher entered the Air Force in 1969 through the ROTC program at the Univer· sity of Michigan at Ann Arbor. He went through undergraduate pilot training. then survival training and finally to Da Nang. He had only been in Vietnam four weeks when his OV-10 Bronco, on a reconnaissance mission over Laos, was brought down by gunfire. 
there sat down with me and explained 'All right, the POW chain of command here is ... the senior officers are...and this is what is expected of you,' etc. 
"finally with all the training I'd received, there was still no way mentally to prepare for being a POW. I had a lot of mixed emotions about being a pilot and going to 'Nam, and I could have avoided it but I wanted to see if 'Nam was really like all the publicity described. What I found out was that yes, there were mistakes being made, but the military should not have gotten all the bad press," he said. 
Reprinted with permission from the Air 
Force Times. The author is a staff ser­geant in the Air Force. 
Write 
P.O.BoxQ Viewpoint Department 
Doonesbury 
and territory is his own. Despite deprivation and often in­
The American POW or M lA is every creed humane treatment, he continues to serve and color. He is a black man, white man, in solitary confinement. shackled, red, brown or yellow. His education abused. ranges from the elementary school And he keeps faith. dropout of the ghetto to the high school Refusing to participate in activities graduate from suburbia. He could have which might be harmful to his comrades, worn the black gown_and mortarboard of to himself or to the United States, he a graduate from the University of Califor­keeps his faith. Occasionally but rarely, nia, Harvard, "Ole Miss," Notre Dame, he returns to friendly lands and home. Purdue, Air Force Academy, West Point or He has won every combat decoration Annapolis. his country can bestow. He has been rec­
Back home his political philosophy may ommended for the Medal of Honor, for have been conservative or liberal. He may extraordinary heroism. He has won the have voted Democratic, Republican or In­Air Force Cross, the Army Distinguished dependent -if indeed he was old enough Service Cross, the Navy Cross, the Silver to vote at all. Star and Legion or Merit. 
He is the son of a man who migrated His uniform is decorated with the Dis­from town to town picking grapes, or who tinguished Flying Cross, the Bronze Star walked the halls of the Senate, or held a and the Purple Heart. scapel, or taught school. His father may The POW!MIA represents distinguished have worn a badge, the eagle insignia of service in the cause of freedom. His un­a colonel. gold stripes of an admiral, the paralleled contributions, achievements, chevrons of a sergent or the blue suit of sacrifices and decorations span an entire 
a banker. generation and encompass the broad 
He is the only son of a widowed parent spectrum of our free enterprise system. 
or the last of a dozen children. He has a He is America! 
family of his own or a girl who waits alone. 
He is the teenager who left the drive-in Reprinted with permission from "The Dis­
hamburger stand for the rice paddy, or patch," June 27, 1985. The author is a a career soldier with 25 years of service. retired lieutenant colonel from the Air His average age is 29 years. Force. 
Garry Trudeau 
REVEREN(), IN 7Ht PA'?T, YOU MOSTR£llOI<JERSARE 5/MPt-Y 
NO
HAV/3AIJWJCAT'l3P 7HtI<JWNG WING ?HEll?. JOBS. 17'5 7H/3/P­
AR6UMENT GOT
Of' 6ACJHAFI, 7Hc BANNINGOF 513CULAR HUMAN6TMA~, 
7H/5
HAUOJIJCEN, ANO FOR.­7H&efJ!TOR5, WHO . THifT 
GUY's
G!VING THe NATIONAL. ARC RJRC£S fUUV!t,, f?J6HT. 
OKAY.
aBTtV&RY70 SATANS!N &Yt-....__ / Y&AR.S. SHAfJ£S.' 
I 
I 
Quote of the day 
"Be as good as you can possibly, give as much as you can possibly give, and then ask a little more of yourself." 
Dennis Grace Notre Dame Soccer Coach South Bend Tribune September4, 1986 

General Buard 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager ......... Anne M.Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .......... Drew Sandier policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor . ............ Frank Lipo Systems Manager . ............ David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager ......... Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
•
•
•j 
j 
~ 
~-------~-----------------------~-------------~-­
Friday, September 19, 1986-page 8 
The Observer 
Sports Briefs 
WVFI-AM 64 will broadcast tomorrow's Notre Dame­Michigan State football game. Frank Mastro and Kevin Herbert will call the action live from East Lansing. Mich. Coverage begins at I: 15 p.m. with the "Notre Dame '86" pregame show featuring "College Football Today," "The Lou Holtz Show," and "Irish Review." -The Observer 
The ND-SMC Cycling Club will have daily rides of 15 to 35 miles, weather permitting. starting at 4:00p.m. on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and at 4: 15 on Tuesday and Thursday from behind the Administration Building. All riders are wel­come. -The Observer. 
A karate demonstration sponsored by NVA will be held. tomorrow at I I a.m. at Washington Hall. Also, karate classes will begin on Monday at 7 p.m. in the ACC boxing room, and will continue every Monday and Wednesday through fall break. Further information may be obtained by contacting the NVAt office at 239-6 I 00. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics announces that it is offering two eve­ning aerobics classes. "Late Night at the Rock" meets every Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 p.m. in Gym I of the ACC. Registration may be done at the NVA office. A complete listing of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 239-6100. -The Observer. 
American United Life is sponsoring an 8K Governor's Cup Run tomorrow at 10 a.m. at Potatoe Creek State Park. The entrance fee is $7 if you pre-register, $9 on the day of the race. For more information contact James Lennox at 232­3222. 



Class1fieds 
NOTICES 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. CALL DOLORES 2n-8131. 
I 
TYPING AVAILABLE 267-4082 
Wordprocesslng resumes, etc. 
Typeset quality. 267-9024.
t Word processing-Typing 272-8827 
~ 
AAA CHURCH RUMMAGE SALE. SEPT 20. 9-5. 101 E NORTHSHORE DR. CORNER MICHIGAN & NORTHSHORE. TOYS, CLOTHING, HOUSEHOLD GOODS. FURNITURE. MORE. 
ALL THAT JAZZ Fri.& Sat. 7&9 LIBR. AUD. Coupon for free burrito with adm. 
FIRST QUALITY SHEEPSKINS Im­ported from Scotland Exclusive price for ND-SMC students $60 Choice of natural while or black Limited ship­ment ol 100 only 259-9296 

LOST/FOUND 
Lost:STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS. Lost during Mich. game In section 32. If found, be honesl and please call 3176.REWARD!! 
IRREPLACEABLE! LOST MY SET OF SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS! LOST ON GREEN FIELD OR ON WAY TO THE GAME. CASH REWARD OF­FERED. IF FOUND CALL KAREN AT 277-5295 OR 272-1441. 
LOST: Black sweatshirt with coloured paint on front. Last seen at Alumni Club, Wednesday, Sapt. 10. Reward. Call Marlene at 283-2628. 
MISSING: DARK BLUE BACKPACK WITH BROWN TRIMMING-EASTMAN. LAST SEEN AT THE NO BOOKSTORE LOBBY TUES SEPT 16. WOULD THE PERSON WHO ACCIDENTALLY PICKED IT UP PLEASE RETURN IT. CALL ANA MARIA AT 272-4363. 
LOST: THIS WATCH. CHEAP BUT VERY SENTIMENTAL BECAUSE MY MOTHER GAVE IT TO ME.ANYWAY ITS GOLD TONE CASIO QUARTZ LED SECONDHAND.LOST AT STEPHAN FIELD LAST WEEK.CALL LUIS 1489. 
LOST-Gold Rope Bracelet-lost In South Quad Area-Sentimental Value! PLEASE CALL X2922­REWARD!!!!fl!l!f!!lll!!!f!!!!!!!!!ll!!!!!!!!! 
RED JANSPORT BACKPACK,SHARP CALCULATOR.PSYCHOLOGY BOOK. AND STUDENT 10. LAST SEEN IN THE EMPLOYEE LOCKERS OF NORTH DINING HALL. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DAVE AT 2148. 
FOUND: JEAN JACKET AT GAME. PLEASE CALL 284-4273 TO IDENTIFY. 

FOR RENT 
BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms for par­ents on football special weekends. Call 1-219-291-7153. 
ROOMMATE WANTED: Responsible person to share 2bdrm apt. $175.00 c electric. 232-9727 after 4:30. 

WANTED 
TYPISTS-$500 weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207 
SUNCHASE TOURS INC. II currently seeking Campus Representatives to promote Winter and Spring Break Ski & Beach Trips. Earn unlimited com­missions and FREE trips. Call toll free TODAY for an application packet 1­800-321-5911. 
Help wanted part time. Computer retail store. Call 277-5026. 
Help wanted part time. Computer retail store. Call 277-5026. 

FOR SALE 
USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS 
AUDIOPHILES Phase Linear Autocorrelator (noise re­duction for all sources) -$100; Tech­nics MK 1800 manual turntable (quartz-lock, direct drive, W'b cartridge) -$70; Audio Pulse Digital Time Delay (to reproduce concert hall ambience; Incorporates a 25 watvchannel amp. You supply second pair of speakers.) -$200; Hatler 110 Preamp (audiophile quality, rack­mountable) -$150. Also have recorda (many digital and 1t2 speed masters) and pre-recorded classical cassettes. Call 277-5912 or 239-7133. 
FOR SALE One King 49 symphony-quality trom­bone with F attachment -$700 or best serious offer. One Olds tenor student trombone-$100. Call Kelly Havens at 239-5637 mornings and atternoona. 
TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. 
Word processor for 18le. 272-8827. 
FOR SALE One GE Llght'n'Eaey Steam and Dry Iron with a full-size, collabelble Ironing board. pad. and cover.-$25. Cell Kelly Havens at 239-5637 mornings and af­
ternoons. 
GREAT GOLF CLUBS AND BAG FOR SALE! 1,3,5 W'S; 3-9 I'S; PW & PUT­TER. CALL ERIC AT 1758. 
Apple lie, Monitor and added pro­grams. Great condition-good price. Call 3268 
Steve 
76 Dodge Colt Wagon. $500, call Marty 239-54 7 4 or 277-4563 
MACINTOSH FOR SALE 128K, Printer, Carrying Case Like New $1,100£1310 

TICKETS 
I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tickets desperately! Call Mike at 283-1655. 
$$ HELP! I NEED 5 TIX FOR SMU GAME! PLEASE CALL CAROL 2n­8732 
HELP!! I NEED 2 PURDUE STUD TIX FOR MY LITILE BRO c BUDDIE. PLEASE CALL MELISSA AT X4667. THANKS! 
I NEED GA'S FOR MICH ST & ALL HOME GAMES.272~306 
HELP! I have an obnoxious Spartan friend who thinks that Michigan Stele 
Is going to beat Notre Dome this weekend. I need a ticket to the game to prove him wrong. In fact, If I can find 2 or 3 or 4, my friends and I can all prove him wrong. Call Llaa at 2595. 
HELPI I NEED 6 GA'S FOR EITHER AIR FORCE OR S.M.U.I CALL X-4605 ASK FOR TOMI 
NEED PURDUE TIX TOM 287-4831 JIM 289-3482 
Loat:STUDENT SEASON FOOTBALL TICKETS. Lost during Mich. game In section 32. If found, be honest and call 3176. REWARDII 
My slater sold my SMU and LSU tick­eta. I need them for an alumni so I am willing to pay. Call Mike at 283-2647 
Need 1 Purdue Ilk stud or GA call John at x2990 
Help a young,dlstraught student who needa GA TIX to PURDUE game. Life hangs In balance.£2072. 
I need 2 Pitt GA'sl Please call right away-3268...Steve 
Rams make big deal with Houston for rookie quarterback Jim Everett 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -The Los An­geles Rams, who've had little success with the aging quarter­backs they've signed in recent years, yesterday acquired the rights to a promising young pas­ser, rookie Jim Everett. 
They paid a steep price for the acquisition of the rights to Everett, the former Purdue stan­dout who has been a contract holdout with the Houston Oilers this season. 
Los Angeles gave the Oilers Pro Bowl guard Kent Hill, the Rams' first picks in the draft for the next two years, their No. 5 pick in 1987 plus defensive end William Fuller for Everett, the third player selected in the 1986 NFL college draft. 
"We had to pay a healthy price, but we feel it's worth it" Rams Coach John Robinson said. "You look ahead to the next five years, the big stumbling block for the Rams was a quality quarterback. 
"Steve Bartkowski, Dieter Brock and Steve Oils are fine for this year, but each is in their 30s 
"We see Jim Everett as one of the young quarterbacks with a great future. We're anxious to get him here as soon as possible, but it's premature on how much he would be used this year," Rob­inson said. "He's coming into a great environment here with a number of proven people on of­fense and a strong defense." 
"He's a franchise-type guy," Bartkowski, the Rams starter this season, said of Everett. "They don't come along that often." 
"''m excited; it's probably the best thing ever to happen to me," Everett said in a conference call to the Rams' headquarters in 
Anaheim.  "I  know  the  team  is  
committed to winning.  It has a  
great coach.  

"There's no question in my mind I did the right thing. It's worked out in everyone's best in· terests." 
Everett indicated he doesn't expect lengthy negotiations with the Rams, saying, "We won't start talking until Monday as I under­stand it but I'll be in real soon." 
He said he's not concerned with the Rams' plans for him this year, commenting, "They have a fine quarterback in gartkowksi. and my only goal is to improve daily. The more I can learn from Bartkowski. the better off I'll be in the long run." · 
His holdout in Houston was "This is going to be interest­ing." Dcmoff said. "John is going 
to have to be fair. There's no rea­son for him to play games. He surely knows Jim's value ... But you have to give the Rams a lot or credit. They outsmarted the 49ers." 
Ladd Herzeg. the Oilers' gen­eral manager, said, "The last meeting that I had with Jim could tell he wanted to play right at first. Ami that probably wasn't going to happen here." 
In recent years, the Rams signed several veteran quarter­backs, but they had little suc­cess. Among the group were Joe Namath, Dan Pastorini, Bert Jones, the Canadian Football League veteran Brock, and Bartkowski. Although the Rams 
arc  2-0,  the  passing  of  
Bartkowski,  who played  for At­ 
lanta  and  Washington  last  

season, has been mediocre. 
The Kams had to outbid the San ~·rancisco 49ers for Everett. The 49ers, who lost quarterback Joe Montana for the season after back surgery this week, had of­fered both of their first-round picks next year, a second-round choice and nose tackle Manu Tuiasosopo. The Oilers were de­mamling Pro Bowl nose tackle Michael Carter. 
fbt! Obserow Notr~ Dam~ ollie~. locat~d on the third floor of laFonune Student Center, accepts classified adv~nising from 9 am. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Tbe Observer Saint Mary's office. located on the third floor of Haggar College Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. Charge is I 0 cents per five ch31'ac­ters r da 
NEED MICHIGAN ST. GA ............ BIG SSS$$$ CALL GREG AT X1068
.....................................•.......... 
Needed: 2 GAs for Air Force. Call x2134. 
NEED up to 4 PURDUE llcketal GA's or student. Will pay cash $$$1 Call PAT (O'Rourke)-£1400. 
DESPERATELY need two Purdue GAs lor parents. Will Pay BIG BUCKS. Call Mike at 1563. 
NEED 2GA PITI TICKETS CALL 312­684-8326 COLLECT 
I've got 2 GA's to Air Force. Penn St., and SMU. I'm looking to lrade any of lhaae pairs for 2 Purdue GA's. Call Kevin 1466 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR PURDUE. CALL SHARON 284-4346. 
HELP!III!IIII I desperately need student or GA tick­eta for the PITISBURGH and PENN STATE 
games. 
(Yes. I am a PA native!) If you can help, please call Michele at x3566. 
DAD AND GRANDAD want to see NOTRE-DAME beat Air Force. I NEED two (2) G.A.'a-will pay S's-(caah). CALL TOM NOW,233-7318 
Need 2-4 GAs for PURDUE. WILL PAY. CALL DONJ675 or JIMJ413. 
NEED 4 GA PITI TICKETS. CALL 277· 0194. 
NEED ALABAMA TICKETS:: I HAVE A RELATIVE WHO DOESN'T BELIEVE NO IS£1.1 NEED AT LEAST TWO TICK­ETS TO TEACH HIM A LESSON. STEVE-1188 
NEED PURDUE STUD. TIX & 2 AIR FORCE GA'e. CHRIS-1107 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S. PLEASE CALL KEVIN £1417 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'A FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL M.S. X3029 
NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL CATH AT 284-4232. 
4 AIR FORCE GA'S 284-4350,283-2344. 
NEED 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. CALL SUE 284-4295. 
Penn State Tlx Wanted. $$$ Call 288­2841 
I NEED 6 PURDUE GA TIX. FAMILY ARRIVES FRI. DON'T NEED TIX TO BE TOGETHER. PLEASE CALL PAUL £2247 OR 2317 
NEEDED:ONE PURDUE TICKET,ANY TYPE,TOP DOLLAR PLUS PLEASE HELP ME.CALL PETE AT 232-9534 AT NIGHT OR EARLY MORNING. PLEASE PLEASE.THANK YOU THANK YOU 
need two Purdue tickets QUICKI Please cell Dave £3879 . 
NEED PURDUE GA'ell CALL JANET £3874 
NEED 4 PITTSBURGH GA TICKETS. WILL TRADE 4 PENN STATE. CALL COLLECT 716-889-2004. 
$$$$ FOR 3 PURDUE STUDENT TICKS. CALL 1391 IIIII! 

PERSONALS 
GUIDE TO GREENCARD FROM F/J.ti VISAS. FOR DETAILS, SEND $1 (P&H) IMMIGRATION PUBLICATIONS, P.O. BOX 515991, DALLAS, TX 75251. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SALES CLERK, PART TIME EVENINGS AND WEEK-ENDS FOR "THE PEACOCK," A WOMAN'S AP­PAREL STORE IN NORTH VILLAGE MALL APPLY TO MRS. ARNOLD IN THAT STORE. PLE,ASE. 
MALE & FEMALE MODELS NEEDED FOR PROFESSIONAL HAIR & BEAUTY SHOW SUN., 9·21, ON CAMPUS. CALL SUE FORSYTH AT THE SOUTH BEND MARRIOTT AT 9 A.M. SATURDAY 9-20. 
"NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­SHIRTS COMING SOON...EXCELLENT 
QUALITY  COMING  
SOON...EXCELLE NT  QUALITY  
"NOTRE  DAME  BEACH  CLUB"  T­ 

SHIRTS ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00 ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00 "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T-SHIRTS 
PURDUE II PARENTS ARE COMING. DESPERATELY NEED TWO G.A.'S. CALL JOHN SCHOEN AT 1143. PURDUE II 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL REFRIGERATOR RENTAL Saturday Sapt. 20th Stepan Center 10:00-12:00pm sponsored by SAB 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL REFRIGERATOR RENTAL Saturday Sapt. 20th 10:00-12:00pm Stepan Center 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL REFRIGERATOR RENTAL Saturday Sept. 20th 10:00-1.2:00pm Stepan Center aponsored by SAB 
ALL THAT JAZZ 
TOASTMASTERS is back! First meeting WED SEPT 24 al7pm Hayes Healy New members are welcome! 
Don'I settle for some fool with his stereo to handle lhe mualc at your next dance. We're professionals. And we're the largest Independent OJ business on campus. THE ONLY DJe THAT MATTER!! Pat 2n-3687 Tlto 2n-0973 Don 283-3675 
ST. JUDE'S NOVENA 
May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored. glorified, loved & preserved throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus, pray for us. St. Jude, worker of miracles. pray for us. St. Jude, the helper of the hopeless. pray for us. Say this prayer 9 times a day, by the 8th day your prayer will be answered. It has never been known to fail. Publica­tion must be promised. My prayers were answered. J.D. 
DANCING BEAR You are of god-like stature 0 that I could be like you 
ALL THAT JAZZ Fri.& Sat,7&9 Llbr. Aud. apona. by ODN 
Happy Capping to those great Holy Cross Girls: Ann, Elisa. Landry, Lori, and Trlsh From You Know Who! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYMARY MALONEY. YOU ARE THE GREATEST BUG KIL­LER IN THE FREE WORLD. WE OWE YOU OUR LIVES OR AT LEAST A BEER. HOPE YOUR 20TH IS AS GOOD AS THE OTHER 19 PUT TOGETHER. LOVE, LISA AND MARIA 
Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB· MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm. 
ATIN: MARKETING STUDENTS WHO HAVE HAD EXPERIENCE MARKET­ING THE NO YELLOW PAGES. SIMILAR WORK AVAILABLE, PART TIME OR FULL TIME. APPLY AT 50985 
U.S. 31 NO., SOUTH BEND, IN PER­SON ON FRIDAY FROM 9-5 OR PHONE 2n-BB82. 
THE URGEI $1 Molaoms Rock & Roll at LEE'S B.B.Q. THURSDAY 18th & FRIDAY 19th 
WILSON WALTER (or is il Nelson?) Thanks so much lor dinner and lhanks even more lor you jusl being you. You're a doll. Love ya lois. Lisa and Maria 
Pop the cork, let the blender start blending MIMI BAZZETIA IS 21 ON SATURDAY! 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, MIMI JEAN WATCH OUT WORLD! LOVE. THE GANG. 
OKINAWAN KARATE DEMONSTRATION-free admission Saturday Sept. 20 at 11 :00 AM In Washington Hall Kataa, self-defense, and breaking techniques. 

The Observer 
~,...~:: :.....;:4il_~ 
Joe Sternberg, the leading Irish scorer last year. is getting more offensive help this season. Pete Gegen previews this weekend's soccer matches in his story at right. 
Agreatpizza is 
getting harder and 
harder to find. 
But bere It Ia. Great tuty Cnlst Lua· bave to go out or your way to rtnd u.s. dOUJ sauce. Real cbMae, grated rNJah. we go out or our way to make It worth Toppln(s, topplngs. toppings. every step you lake. Because you mlgbl 
.. 


~Pizza. 
52920 U.S. 31 N 277-5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------­
Friday and Saturday Coupon Special Large for Price of Medium 
Good for Carry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
Delivery untll11 :00 pm weekdays ~ Expires 10/3/86 2:00am on Friday and Saturday ~~·':'::"a 
L----------------------------------­
Friday, September 19, 1986-pagc9 
Soccer team travels to face MSU, returns home Sunday vs. Tri-State 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports t:ditor 
The 5-I Notre Dame soccer 
team looks to add two victories 
to its record this weekend. 
The team is in East Lansing. Mich., today for an afternoon contest against Michigan State. Then the team returns home Sunday to face Tri-State in a 1 
p.m. contest on Alumni Field. 
The Irish have been opening some eyes lately with their excel­lent play. The defense began the year with two straight shutouts and is allowing an average ofone goal a game: 
Meanwhile the play of the of­fense has been the biggest im­provement for Notre Dame. The team has scored an average of three goals a game, a one-goal improvement over last seasons' record-low average of two. 
The offense has been led by sophomore forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt. McCourt has eight ~oals and three assists 
Bosox complete sweep of Brewers 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Rich Gedman and Marty Barrett drove in two runs apiece with bases·loaded singles in a six-run tllird inning as tile Boston Red Sox rolled to a 7-I victory over tile Milwaukee Brewers last night. completing a through six games, and he re­corded the team's first hat-trick since Rich Herdegen scored three against Valparaiso in 1984. 
To contrast with last season's scoring production, McCourt's 19 points is only six shy ofequal­ing last season's leading-scorer Joe Sternberg's total of 25. 
McCourt is joined in the scoring department by sopho­more Randy Morris and fresh­man Dave Augustyn on the front line, and Sternberg and fresh­man Rolfe Behrje in the midfield. 
The Irish enter the game having tied the Spartans in their last two matches. While not much is known about them this season, Head Coach Dennis Grace noted that the Spartans played very well in a 3-I loss to Indiana last week. 
"They did something against Indiana that we didn't do, and that's score a goal," noted Grace. 'Tm looking forward to seein_g what we can do against them." 
· The game against Tri-State was moved from October 30 to 
four-game series sweep. 
With their 16th victory in tlleir last 19 starts and tlleir 12tl1. straight at llome, the Red Sox hiked their record to 90-57, going 33 games over .500 for the first time since Oct. 2, 1978. 
The Red Sox also increased their American League East lead to I0 games over idle New York and Toronto, reducing Boston's magic number for clinching the title to six. 
_ .. Stepping Stone Stable 
offers 
Instruction in Dressage and Jumping Private and Semi-Private Lessons 
342 Ironwood Drive, Niles 683-3068 (Ten Minute Drive from Campus) 
t GEOGRAPHIC CLUB t : MEETING : 
: Monday, September 22nd : t at7pm t + in room 123 Niewland Science Hall + 
: Anybody who is an officer : t in a geographic club or is t : interested in forming a club : : is encouraged to attend. : 
+Refreshments + + will be + + served. D 0 +
t••••••••••••••••••t 
Sunday at the request of both 
teams. 
The Tri-State contest pits coach against former player. Dan Coughlin, former keeper for the Irish, is now the coach of the Trojans. 
Notre Dame will be without the services of three of its players this weekend. Senior forward Bill Gross is out for a week with an injured shoulder suffered in_t!:l~ 
Michigan game. The injury is similar, though less serious than the one suffered by captain Jim Flynn at the beginning of the season. Flynn is about two weeks away from returning to action. 
The keeper spot has been hit particularly hard with injuries this season. Following Flyn.n to the bench is sophomore Kevin Mayo, who broke his thumb in practice this week. 
With Mayo out for three to four weeks, Tim Hartigan has moved up to the backup-keeper slot. Grace noted that freshman keeper Dan Lyons is also ready to play. 
Bruce Hurst 12-7, breezed to his fourth consecutive victory and IOth complete game of the season. Hurst scattered five hits, struck out I I and walked two. 
Milwaukee starter Pete Vukovich, I -3, took the loss. 
Boston's Wade Boggs had an infield single and a double, ex­tending llis bitting streak to 20 games and raising his average to .352. Boggs also drew his 
IOOth walk of the season, tops in the league. 
. '' •• '.'.I I 1 I 1'. 

The Observer Friday, September 19, 1986-page 10 
Full slate of games on tap as '86 interhall football begins 
By CHRIS DALLAVO 
Sports Writer 
As football fever continues its reign on the Notre Dame campus, fans have another cause for excitement. The 1986 Men's lnterhall Football season is about to begin, with a full slate of games scheduled for this Sun­day at Stepan Field. 
Alumni Hall, the 1985 lnterhall Football champion, will once again be a strong contender in the Leahy division. Despite losing many key players, Alumni coach Paul Loughlin remains cautiously optimistic. 
"We just have to take things one week at a time," he said. "No one really knows what to expect until after everyone's played." 
Alumni begins its defense at 2 
p.m. against newly-formed Pangborn, who had combined with Fisher to compete in past years. Other Leahy Division games pit Stanford against Holy Cross and Zahm against Cavanaugh. Both contests start at .3 p.m. 
The Parseghian division will probably feature the year's most 
intense  competition.  Perennial  
powers  Morrissey,  Dillon  and  
Flanner  will  all  field  strong  

teams, while Off-Campus will try to rebound from their 0·5 record of last year. 
This week's best game should be the clash between Dillon and Flanner. Charlie Rice, the head 
ND field hockey team plays well despite double-OT loss to Illinois 
By MARGOT MACHECA 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey team travelled to Northern llli· nois University Wednesday and, although they came back with a 

Jill Lindenfeld 
.3-2 loss in double overtime to drop their season record to 1·.3, the Irish players had nothing to be ashamed of in their defeat. 
When time ran out in regula· tion, the Irish and the Huskies were tied I· I, with Notre Dame's lone goal coming on a 40-yard drive by Stephanie Giggetts. The senior forward scored unassis­ted after beating four defenders in an open field breakaway. 
Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer, Corinne DiGiacomo, tied the match at 2·2 with only twenty seconds left in the first ten­minute overtime period to keep the Irish hopes alive. Northern 

The Proof ,.In the Taatel 
O.,..M...satllaa 
Pizm-Sortdulkha-8alod. 
-··­
Beer& Wine 277-aoao l.ead..........., 
(IVai,......... 
r----FREE!---.. 
REGULARRAX WITH PURCHASE OF REGULAR FRIES AND 
MEDIUM DRINK Our famous Rax roast beef,sllced thin, plied high, • served on a sesame-seed roll. 
Please present coupon before ordenng 
O>e coupon per person per v1s1t Not vahd 1n comblnat1on w1th onv 01ner offer Offer good at partiCipating Ra• 
postn_yonts 1/20 f""q)t r-r.,('t" r~pt!Qn 1_,..,1\.J'::! 

NOW HIRING! NOW HIRING! 
Part-time evening Telephone sales 
phone 233-9045 between 5:30 -9:00 

Illinois had scored just thirty seconds into the period. 
Only three minutes passed in the second OT before the Huskies slipped a goal by junior goalie M.J. Beetel. The Irish failed to score and the match ended in a disappointing .3-2 final. 
Although the Irish tired in the second half of regulation, Coach Jill Lindenfeld said she felt a change in her players when they began the extra periods. 
"We had a breakthrough with the girls going into the over­time," she said. "I felt a real desire to win in all of them." 
Lindenfeld stressed that NIU dominated the match, but the Irish took their time and played better late in the match. 
"Our girls played with poise all through the game," she said. 'They put their hearts and guts into the extra minutes on a field that was fourteen yards wider than we are used to playing on." 
The Irish look to improve their record this weekend with away matches against Ohio today and Kent State on Saturday. 
CBF 

This Friday at 6:30pm 
special guest speakers BARRY DAVIS -1984 OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST In wrestling HAL MILLER-FOUNDER of CBF Theme this month -'Will the TRUE Christian Please Stand Up' Informal Bible study, question/answer time, refreshments following. At Campus house 19525 Pendle Call 2n-8471 for Info. or rides 
1\ 
219-872-2114 Open 7 D•ya per WHk 
MICHIANA STABLES 
Tr•ll AldH  •  Pony Aldea  •  H•y Alde1  
• LHIOIII • Bo.rdlng eTNinlng  U.S. 12 (E•al of Mlchlg•n City) MICHIGAN CITY, IN 41310  

coach of Dillon, anticipates a physical game. 
"We got a tough break opening against Flanner, who perennially fields a good team," he said. "We have a solid nucleus, but we need some key spots filled by untested players." 
Other Parseghian games fea­ture Grace taking on Morrissey and Off-Campus against Keenan, both at I p.m.. 
The Rockne division, led by last year's division champion Sorin, should also feature some hard-hitting action. Sorin begins its season against Howard, while St. Ed's battles Carrol. Both games begin at 4 p.m. 
Come on out this Sunday, hung over or not and watch the opening round of games as In· terhall Football · a great Notre Dame tradition · begins its 1986 season. 
UNCLES' IRISH ,UI 
4609 Grape Rd. JMSPiaza Mishawaka 277-5680 
Large Screen T.V. to Watch 
N.D. vs. Michigan St. 
Live DJ • Fri. & Sat. Night 9-Ciose 
NO COVER 

v~ \Jeekend //rfl!!'o~
~ Prafts 
Friday 
~ 1J~2 
(must be 21) 

~~~tt~t~.........................................................
F.n.·d.ay•••s.ep•t-em•b•e•r•l9•,•1•98•6•---p.ag.e..ll 



FRIDAY 
I I: 15-12:30 p.m.: Economics Dept. Public Policy Workshop, David Vance, thesis proposal. 13 I Decio Hall 3:00p.m.: NDW Tennis Irish Invitational, Courtney Courts 
4:30 p.m.: Mathematical Colloquium. "Matrices and Near Matrices," Speaker: Prof. Paul Halrnos, University ofCalifornia, Santa Dlara, 226 Computer Center 6:00p.m.: Meeting, St. Joseph's Hospital Volunteer Program, review and finalize schedule, discuss transportation possibil· ities, newcomers welcome, 123 Nieuwland Science Hall 
6:30 p.m.: Bible Study, Topic: "Will the True Christian Please Stand Up, .. Speaker: Hal Miller, Founder CBF, Barry Davis 184 Olympic Champion Wrestler, 19525 Pendle Rd. 
7:00 &:. 9:00 p.m.: Movie: "All That Jazz," proceeds go to Overseas Development Network for projects in the Third World, Coupon for free burrito with every admission, $1.50, Library Auditorium 
7:30 &:. 9:30 p.m.: Friday Night Film Series, "Draughtman's Contract," 1982, color, I07 minutes, Peter Greenaway, Great Britain, Annenberg Auditorium 8:00p.m.: Performing Arts Series, Bonnie Koloc, and Corky Sie~el. O'Laughlin Auditorium, tickets call 219-284-4626 
SATURDAY 8:00a.m.: NDW Tennis Irish Invitational. Courtney Corts I :30 p.m.: Football. Notre Dame vs. Michigan State (away),CBS 
7:00 &:. 9:00 p.m.: Movie: "All That Jazz," proceeds go to Overseas Development Network for projects in the Third World, Coupon for free burrito with every admission, $1.50, Librarv Auditorium 
SUNDAY I 0:00a.m.: Varisty Tennis, SMC vs. University of Wisconsin, Milwaulkee, SMC Tennis Courts 
I 
:00 p.m.: Baseball, Blue-Gold Game £2, Jake Kline Field 

I 
:00 -3:00 p.m.: Opening Art Exhibition, "Piranesi: Prints from the Indiana Collection," O'Shaughnessy Gallery East 

I 
:30 p.m.: Meeting, First organizational meeting for Black Cultural Arts FestivaL open to EVERYONE, Pasquerilla West Chapel 3:00p.m.: Art Lecture, "Piranesi: Prints from Indiana Collec­tions," by Adelheid Gealt, Curator of Western Art, Indiana University Art Museum. O'Shaughnessy, Gallery East 


4:00 p.m.: Department of Music Concert, Laura Klugherz, violin, Annenberg Auditorium 

The Far Side Gary Larson 
Berke Breathed 
Kevin Walsh 

Early chemists describe the first dirt molecule 
Campus The Daily Crossword 
--------~----­

65 Paris airport ACROSS 66 Celts 1 Old 67 Tennis name5 Ah, mel 
68 Loch­
9 Pierces 14 Nude 15 Beethoven's DOWN 
birthplace 1 Fratricide 16 Cal. lake victim 
resort 2 Festival 17 Charles Lamb 3 Ireland 18 Voice range 4 Tie 19 Coral island 5 Toward the 20 "Sweet -thee stem 
I sing" 6 Lounge about23 Shanty 7 Against24 Shelter 8 Supercilious25 Adjust again person28 Sandra or Ruby 9 Look fixedly30 Declaim 10 Tear intoviolently shreds34 Ready to be 11 Nautical calldrawn 12 Machete35 Ala. city 
13 Ego
37 Tune 21 Production38 Gift from 22 Fragrant resin France 25 Flowers41 Unit of work 26-nous42 Attempts 27 Platform43 Then: Fr. 
28 Delay44 Observes 29 Building46 "-the ram-extensions
parts... " 47 Doctrine 
31 Slugger Hank 48 Coal scuttle 
32 Saltpeter in Eng. 
50 "What's up-?" 
33 Meeting of51"-give me loversdeath" 35 Peau de­60 Similar 36 One who puts61 Religious an end to, inimage law
62 Buffalo Bill's state 63 Actor David 
39Wear away64 Shea athletes 40 Choice by vote 

C>1986 Trlbune Media Services. Inc. 9/19/86All Rights Reserved 
45 Old Heb. coin Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 49 Auguries 50 Compact 51 Crew 52 Hlp bones 53 On the qui ­
54 Kind of bean 55 Desserts 56 The two 57 Ancient 
times 58 Nocturnal birds 
59 Beams 

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Help us keep winning. 

LAST DAY OF SALEIII
s!~c!;D s~R~a I" 
NOW BUYING USED CD"S 
MOST ALBUMS & TAPES: S6.49 CD'S AVAILABLE: S13.99 MA-XELL XLII 90: S21/l 0 TDK SA90: Sl9110 
HOURS: 11 :30 -4:30 LOCATION: BASEMENT OF LAFORTUNE 
f .•. ~ f-•· .... -ft L ._ 'f·. "t,. ., f • & a ' f
·,. I f I f If
-.. '' ..., ; . 
Friday, September 19, 1986 -page 12




S~orts 
Irish look for first '86 victory against Spartans 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -At some point early tomorrow evening. there will be a tough college football team with a winless record of 0-2. 
That's what is at stake when 20th­ranked Notre Dame takes on Michigan State tomorrow afternoon at Spartan Stadium in front of a sellout crowd of 76,000 and a CBS national-television au­dience. 
,.. The Spartans held down the No. 20 slot in the AP preseason poll but dropped a heartbreaker, 20-I 7, to Arizona State in their season opener and lost the position to the Irish, who were impressive in a 24-23 loss to third-ranked Michigan last Saturday. Now, Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz finds himself looking for his first Irish victory against a team which finished 7-4 last year, had the nation's leading rusher and has lost only 14 times in 89 home openers. "Had we won the (Michigan) game it would have been a tremendous morale boost for us," Holtz said. "Now I'm not sure what our reaction's going to be going into Michigan State. "For the first time, you don't know how a football team is going to react on the road. I think this one is going to react very positively and play very well. (Michigan State) was picked to be in the Top 20 preseason and I can see why. They are impressive." Spartan head coach George Perles has led his troops to back-to-back winning seasons for the first time since Darryl Rogers did it in 1977 and 1978, and this year State looks to break into the Big I 0 conference's elite -usually meaning Mic­higan and Ohio State. One thing's for sure, however. The team coming away with an 0-2 record could have an uphill battle to fight in 1986. 
Michigan State's offense vs. Notre Dame's defense: 
If the name Lorenzo White is an un­familiar one, you probably haven't been following the Heisman Trophy race very closely. Remember the hype over Auburn's Bo Jackson? White was the man who beat out last year's Heisman winner in the rushing department. picking up 
I,908 yards for the Spartans to lead the nation. 
In 1986, Perlesjust might have a solid passing attack to complememt the ex­plosiveness of the 5-1 I, 204-pound 
Each week, the Observer sports staff, a random student picked by the sports editor and some well-known figur<> in the Notre Dame community predict the outcome of the week's major college football games. Records are compiled as to how each per­son does against the spread. In other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner of a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS. 
Penn State over BOSTON COLLEGE by 11.5 Pittsburgh over PURDUE by 1 MICHIGAN over Oregon St. by 38 Alabama over FLORIDA by 1.5 BAYLOR over Southern Cal by 5 Navy over INDIANA by 1 AUBURN over East CaroUona by 11 OKLAHOMA over Minnesota by 15 AIR FORCE over Wyoming by 10.5 WASHINGTON over Brigham Young by 7.5 Nebraska over ILLINOIS by 18 FLORIDA ST. over North Caronna by 9 ARIZONA ST. over Southern Methodist by 3 MICHIGAN ST. over Notre Dame by 1 
White, who led the Big I 0 in touchdowns 
last year with I 7 and rushed for better than 220 yards in four games. 
Senior quarterback Dave Yarema is coming off the best game of his career in the loss to the Sun Devils, completing 26 passes in 33 attempts for 258 yards. His .577 completion percentage is topped by only six other Big I 0 signal-callers with 500 or more attempts. 
"They have the same ingredients on offense that the University of Michigan does," said Holtz. "They have a good of­fensive line, a great tailback, a good blocking fullback in (Bobby) Morse, and the development of Yarema means a lot to them. He's a very accurate passer, can scramble. finds the ooen receiYer and is 

Lorenzo White 
oblivious to the pass rush. 
"Offensively, they're an awful lot like Michigan except that Lorenzo White, as everybody says, is the greatest running back in the entire country. I think you have to concede that Lorenzo White is going to gain a lot of yardage. What we don't want to do is give him any more than he deserves." 
A lack of targets shouldn't be a problem for the 6-3 Yarema, who has a fine re­ceiving corps returning. Senior nanker Mark Ingram led the team in 1985 with 34 receptions and split end Andre Rison pulled down 19. Morse, whose father, Jim, captained the 1954 Notre Dame foot­ball team, is also a receiving threat com­ing out of the backfield. Junior tight end Mike Sargent played in all 12 games last season, catching only two passes as he was used mainly in a blocking role. 
In the trenches, however, the Irish should find the going a little easier. Last weekend, the front line of tackles Robert Banks (left), Marty Lippincott (nose) and Wally Kleine (right) was outweighed sig­nificantly against the Wolverines. 
Tomorrow, Michigan State sends three returning starters on the field in junior center Patrick Shurmur, senior guard Doug Rogers and sophomore tackle Tony Manda rich. To stop the Irish from getting to Yarema, big performances will be needed from sophomore Mark Hill and 
junior David Houle, two newcomers to the offensive line. 
Besides stopping White, or at least slowing him down, the key for Notre Dame will be putting some pressure on Yarema in the passing situations. Outside linebacker Dave Butler is back in the lineup and Cedric Figaro could be blitzing occasionally from the other outside spot. 
Senior captain Mike Kovaleski was named the Associated Press Midwest de­fensive player of the week for his efforts at the inside backer spot against the Wol­verines. Kovaleski was in on a game-high 
I 7 tackles in the contest. 
Notre Dame's offense vs. Michigan State's defense: 
Heading into last weekend's Michigan game, the big question was whether Notre Dame could move the ball against one of the better defenses in the nation. After picking up 455 total yards on a myriad of formations and plays -from wishbones to split-backs and from roll­outs to options-the offensive unit is now faced with another question: 
Was last week's success a result of a hyped-up group of players in their first game under a new head coach, or can the Irish continue to march upfield at wiW? 
"Our weapon is to control the football,·· Holtz said. "We would like to continue to do a lot of different things. I know some people think it's a sort of ny-by-night op­eration but it really isn't. There's a lot of correlation in our offense. 
"I am impressed with Mark Green with the ball in his hands and I think Anthony Johnson and Braxston (Banks) can run pretty well. Pernell Taylor really worked hard and, still, Tim Brown showed that he is just an all-around great player:: 
Steve Beuerlein also answered some important questions in the Michigan game. throwinn for 263 yards on a 2 1­of-33 completion ratio, behind the protection of an impressive, young offen­sive line. Senior center Chuck Lanza was named offensive lineman of the game for the Irish. 
A leg injury will sideline fullback Frank Starns for approximately two weeks. ac­cording to Holtz, which means Taylor could be one tired fullback after tomor­row's contest. 
The strength of the Michigan State defense lies beyond the line of scrim­mage, where a veteran linebacking corps and an impressive secondary will be trying to put the lid on Beuerleirl's passing attack. 
All-America candidate Shane Bullough and Tim Moore, who combined for 275 tackles last season, head the linebacking squad along with sophomore Kurt Lar­son. 
Junior Todd Krumm, who paced the team with four interceptions in 1985, is one of three returning players in the de­fensive backfield. Seniors Dean Altobelli (strong safety) and Paul Bobbitt (free safety) also will have their hands full with speedy Irish receivers like Brown, Reggie Ward, Milt Jackson and Alvin Miller. 
But for the Spartans to slow down the Irish offense, a defensive line with only one returning starter will have to come through. Left tackle Mark Nichols (6-2, 
238) is the lone returnee, while David Wolff and John Budde move from part­time roles in 1985 to spots at tackle and end, respectively. The other end position will be occupied by a Freshman, James Szymanski. 
"Defensively, they play something like the 46," Holtz said. "They line up all dif­ferent ways and twist and stunt and create an awful lot of bad plays. They never let you establish a rhythm on offense and it's very, very effective. 
"It's going to be a little difficult for our offensive linemen because it's whole new blocking schemes and a whole new basic concept. (Michigan State) really pursues well and they don't make a lot of mental errors." 
... c! 
< "
·~-:' ...Jfr;,~~ 


Shane Bullough 
PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 






Marty Bums Asst. Sports Editor  Mike Szymanski Sports Writer  Dennis Corrigan Sports Editor  Marty Strasen Asst. Sports Editor  Andrea LaFreniere SMC Sports Editor  Jim Daves Guest Celebrity  Katy Kirkpatrick Random Student  
7-6-1  7-6-1  6-7-1  5-8-1  3-10-1  5-8-1  5-8-1  
.538  .538  .462  .385  .231  .385  .385  
(lastweek: 7-6-1)  (last week: 7-6~1)  (last week: 6-7-1)  (last week:5-8-1)  (last week: 3-10..1)  (last week: 5-8-1)  (last week: 5-8-:t)  
Eagles Panthers  Nittany Lions Boilermakers  Eagles Boilermakers  Eagles Boilermakers  Nittany Lions Boilermakers  Eagles Boilermakers  Nittany Lions Boilermakers  
Beavers  Wolverines  Wolverines  Beavers  Beavers  Beavers  Beavers  
Crimson Tide  Crimson Tide  Crimson Tide  Gators  Crimson Tide  Gators  Crimson Tide  
Bears  Bears  Bears  Bears  Bears  Bears  Bears  
Midshipmen Tigers  Hoosiers Tigers  Hoosiers Tigers  Midshipmen Tigers  Midshipmen Tigers  Midshipmen Tigers  Midshipmen Tigers  
Sooners  Sooners  Sooners  Sooners  Gophers  Sooners  Sooners  
Cowboys  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  Falcons  
Huskies Cornhuskers  Huskies Cornhuskers  Huskies Cornhuskers  Huskies Cornhuskers  Huskies Cornhuskers  Huskies Cornhuskers  Cougars Cornhuskers  
Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  Seminoles  
Mustangs Irish  Mustangs Irish  Sun Devils Irish  Mustangs Irish  Sun Devils Irish  Sun Devils Irish  Mustangs Irish  


~ 
b___ 
-------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------~ 





