Today's toys -page 2 

VOL. XXI, NO. 48 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trustees to choose president, set divestment policy Friday 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
The day of decision is Friday. 
On that day, the N'otre Dame Board of Trustees will meet on campus to elect the next Uni­versity president, as well as decide whether or not to divest from firms doing business in South Africa. 
The successor to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will be announced as soon as the trustees have acted, according to Richard Conklin, assistant vice president for University relations. The mat­ter is on the board's agenda for 2 p.m. Friday. 
The board's 10-member nominating committee, meeting at the Center for Con­tinuing Education, will vote Thursday on whom it will pro­pose to the board, said Conklin._ 
The full 49-member board will choose the new president the next day, in all likelihood electing the nominating com­mittee's choice. 
Before the board elects the new president, however, it will review Notre Dame's South African investment policy. 
The investment committee and the ad hoc committee on South Mrican investments will each meet Thursday, Conklin said. Either one or both may make a recommendation to the full board on whether to divest. 

Halloween II The Observer /Steve Grabicki 
The Beaux Arts Ball drew a large number of last Friday, all of whom according to the Ball's strange creatures to the Architecture Building theme, "only come out at night." 
The board will decide the next morning on what action, if any, it will take on the mat­ter, Conklin said. 
Conklin declined to release the trustees' agenda. He did say, however, that besides the presidential selection and the divestment decision, "there isn't anything else· on (the agenda) of any consequence." 
Five Holy Cross priests have been mentioned as likely sue­cessors to Hesburgh, who has been president since 1952. 
They are: Father Edward "Monk" Malloy, associate provost; Father William Beauchamp, executive assis­tant to the president; Father Ernest Bartell, director of the Helen Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies; Father Mi­chael McCafferty, associate professor of law; and Father 
see TRUSTEES, page 4 


Commons to close for 5 days, pay fine 
By CHRIS JULKA 
Copy Editor 

The Commons bar at 826 N. Eddy St. will pay a $1500 fine and close for five days, accor­ding to a settlement agreed 'upon Friday by Joseph Rabb, prosecutor for the Indiana Al­coholic Beverage Commission, and attorneys for the Com­mons. 
The fine and closing are scheduled to take effect after a 45-day period during which the bar's owner may appeal. 
The settlement follows In­
diana Excise Police charges of 
allowing minors to loiter in the 
tavern after the excise, South 
Bend and state police had con­
ducted a joint raid on the bar 
last Dec. 15. 

"We had a person at the-door every night, and we had to refuse entry to a lot of people," said Pasquale Anastasio, one of the owners of the Commons. "But some people have coun­terfeit !D's. They're very diffi­cult to detect." 
The penalty agreed to by the 
Commons owners is the same 
as was meted out in a similar 
case handled earlier, accor­
ding to Robert McNevin, an ABC hearing judge from In­dianapolis. 
"The under-aged with coun­terfeit ID's make us liable to the law," said Anastasio, when asked about the settlement. "I don't think it's fair, but the law is the law." 
Anastasio said The Com­mons would resort to new se­curity measures. "We will be consulting experts in security to better scrutinize !D's, so as to make it much more difficult for under-aged to gain entry,'' he said. 
Anastasio declined to iden­tify these experts, but said, "They _were highly recom­mended." 
"It's not good for business to have so much security," said Anastasio, when asked what he thought about the new measures. "But it's a neces­sary evil." 

Counterfeit !D's can be ob­tained from just about any place, including magazines and computers, according to Anastasio. He said, according to rumor a popular place is Pennsylvania. "Probably every underclassman can get 
see COMMONS, page 3 

Survey names Hesburgh as the most effective president 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
In a survey to identify the most effective college and uni­versity presidents, the name most often mentioned was Notre Dame President Father Theodore Hesbutgh. 
The survey was part of a two­year study designed by James Fisher, president emeritus of the Council for Advancement and Support of Education in ­Washington, D.C., ~nd Martha Tack, professor of educational administration and supervision at Bowling Green State Univer­sity. 
The purpose of the study, en­titled "The Effective Qollege President," is to determine whether those presidents considered effective are differ­ent from the ''typical or repre­sentative presidents," said Fis­her. If they are different, Fisher said, the study seeks to determine what makes them so. . 
As part of the research, Fis­her said he and Tack surveyed 485 individuals considered knowledgeable about higher education, including private foundation heads, higher-education scholars and randomly selected college and university presidents. 
The respondents were asked 
see SURVEY, page 3 


Talks promote alcohol awareness 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
"Think before you drink" is the slogan of Alcohol Aware­ness Week, sponsored by the Saint Mary's Alcohol Educa­tion Council. 
Events for the week, which begin today and run through Thursday, include today's program, "Before Drinking . . . Start Thinking.'' This pro­gram examines the physio­logical effects of alcohol on the body. Lecture topics also include preparing yourself for the evening out, sobering yourself up in a drinking en­vironment and knowing what to do with a drunk friend. 
Wednesday's program, "Someone I Know. Drinks Too Much," features a ·panel of speakers from Alcoholics Anonymous and Al-Anon, a self-help group for people troubled by another's drink­ing, who will talk about the influence of alcohol on their lives. 
"The Effect of Alcohol on the Saint Mary's Communi­ty" will be discussed by a panel of students and faculty Thursday. 
Each lecture will begin at 7 
p.m. and last until 8 p.m. in the LeMans lobby. 
According to a statement issued by Patricia Ris­smeyer, advisor to the group, the four goals of the week are the following: to stimulate thought and discussion about alcohol consumption on campus and at home; to pro­vide information about the physiological effects of alco­hol; to help participants recognize problem drinking in themselves, friends and families; to introduce people experiencing problems related.to alcohol to the local and national support systems available, the Saint Mary's College Education Council consultant, Alcoholics Anonymous and Al-Anon. 
"We want to stimulate dis­cussion on alcohol consump­tion," said Rissmeyer. 
"One of the concerns we 
see ALCOHOL, page 4 

The Ob~erver Monday, November 10, 1986-page 2 


Of Interest 
This, "A Call To Peacemaking Week," will featqre lec­tures, films, slide shows, exhibits, and other activities to focus on the need to work for peace. This week is sponsored by the Network for Peace and Justice, associated with the Center for Social Concerns. -The Observer 
"The Way Out: A General Nuclear Settlement" will be presented by retired Admiral Noel Gayler, former com­mander of all U.S. Naval forces in the Pacific, tonight at 
7:30 in the Engineering Auditorium. The lecture is open to the public. -The Observer 
"Karl Barth and the Prayer of the Church," a lecture, will be given tonight at 8 in the Memorial Library Auditorium. Speaking will be Donald Saliers, associate professor of theology and liturgical studies and chairman of the graduate department of religion at Emory Univer­sity. -The Observer 
The availability of contraceptives in public schools will be topic of the Grace Hall semi-final debate series tonight at 9 in the Grace Hall Pit. This is the first semi-final in the series that gives students the opportunity to debate many social concerns issues. All are welcome to attend and make their contributions. Father Richard McCormick will be the judge. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Financial Institution Series will be held today at 4:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy Auditorium. Thomas O'Brian, president and chief executive officer of PNC Fin­ancial Corporation, will speak at this event which is spon­sored by the Finance Club. -The Observer 
"The Immunoglobin Gene Superfamily" will be focused on today at 4:30 p.m. in the Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium, Room 283. Speaking will be Dr. Leroy Hood, director of the Cancer Center at California Institute of Technology. The lecture is open to the public. Coffee will be served at 4:15p.m. -The Observer 
Chaim Potok, author of "The Chosen," will speak today at 4 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education Audjtoriurn. As a Distinguished Lecturer, Potok will speak at the inauguration of the Abrams Chair of Jewish Thought and Culture. "Authority and Rebellion: The Individual and Modern Literature" will be Potok's topic today. Also in the CCE Auditorium, Potok will lecture on "The Writer/Artist Against the World" at 4 p.m. Tuesday, and lead an informal question-and-answer session at 10:30 a.m. Wednesday. All events are open to the public. -The Obser­ver 
"University of New Mexico, a Traveling Exhibition" will be featured in the Isis Gallery from today until No­vember 29. The exhibition consists of drawings, prints, and photographs done by the graduate and advanced un­dergraduate students of New Mexico's Department of Art and Art History. The Isis Gallery, located on the third floor of Riley Hall, is open to the public from 9 a.m. to 5 
p.m. during the week. -The Observer 
Inter-hall transfer applications will be accepted by the Office of Student Residences from December 1 at 8 a.m. to December 12 at 5 p.m. -The Observer 
Dr. Russell Kirk, author of "The Roots of American Order," and "The Conservative Mind," will speak today at noon on "Burke, Hurne, Blackstone, and the Constitution of the United States," in Room 101 of the Notre Dame Law 
School. Prior to this he will hold a press conference at 11 
a.m. in the Civil Rights Reading Room. -The Observer 

Weather 
Buy a squirrel a snowsuit because it may snow and will certainly be cold and cloudy today. Temperatures will be in the low to mid 30's with a 60 percent of light snow. Low around 30. Cloudiness and cold continues Tuesday with a 30 per­cent chance of morning light snow and 


nearly steady temperatures in the 30s. ­
Associated Press 



Automatic "super-hero"toys stifle creativity of child's play 
"Things were always better when I was a 
child" is a phrase all of us have heard, usually 
muttered by a parent or grandparent in refer­
ence to the latest fashion trend or rock idol of 
the younger generation. 
Since I personally hated these "When I was 
young" sermons, I had always assured myself 
that I would never annoy those younger than 
myself with such reminiscent naysaying, at 
least until I was comfortably middle-aged. 
But, perhaps because of the fast approach of 
my 22nd birthday (or more probably the fact 
that I .happened to be browsing through the 
Chicago Tribune while frantically searching for 
a topic for this column) I now feel compelled 
to indulge in childhood nostalgia and bemoan 
the fate of the thousands of kids who will grow 
up playing with today's "toys." 
I remember (another phrase I once swore 
never to use) when I was young and Christmas 
lists were much less complicated. A "good 
haul" consisted of a nice, simple doll or two 
and a Candy Land game, with perhaps a set of 
Tinker Toys thrown in. These toys didn't move, 
light up, self-destruct, conquer, attack, or 
reproduce -they just sat there under the tree, 
waiting for a child's imagination to bring them 
to life. 
Not so today. Toys are electronic, transfor­
mable, beeping, flashing, exploding monsters, 
capable of waging a small-caliber war and cer­
tainly not demanding any creative input from 
the child (except perhaps a working knowledge 
of the latest defense strategerns). 
Simply page through any of the advertise­
ment inserts heralding the Christmas shopping 
season's arrival, and you will see an array of 
such toys falling into roughly three categories: 
military adventure toys, transformable toys, 
and just plain obnoxious toys (a category not 
necessarily exclusive of the first two). Here's 
a sample catalog quoted from Sunday's Chicago 
Tribune, with my favorites from each category 
thrown in for illustration. 
Military adventure toys 
Based upon the cartoons which pollute Sat­
urday morning programming, these toys ern­'phasize destruction and feature phaser­wielding "heroes" fighting supernatural creatures. Some of the most typical include: 
* Masters of the Universe "playsets," featur­ing "He-Man's Castle Grayskull or Fright Zone, horne of the Evil Horde." A friend tells me that this set has recently been enhanced with the charming Slime Castle, a structure that oozes 
· slime from the eye-sockets of a skull. 
* Thundercats Murnrn-ra's Tomb Fortress which includes such playful things as the "Murnrn-ra figure, Skull Altar, two Mutant statue guards. and good figures with battle­action motion." Transformable toys 
Perhaps due to the conservation trend, these toys pride themselves on being several things at once. Some of the most ridiculous are: 
* Transformers Special Team Mini-Vehicle 
Mary Heilmann 
Assistant News Editor 

assortment, including Aerialbots, Protectobots, Stunticons or Cornbaticons. These toys trans­form into robots and back again . . . never a dull moment here. 
* Hasbro Decepticon Trypticon (my personal favorite), which "transforms from city to battle station to walking dinosaur!" Entire genera­tions of kids will grow up believing that their town hall may one day be a tooth in the mouth of a brontosaurus. Obnoxious toys 
This category includes all of the above with one notable addition:· the Rambo Rocket Water Launcher, which "shoots water up to 30 feet!" and holds an entire quart of water for maximum bystander irritation. 
Even the more traditional toys have been "improved" to do more things and do them better. Dolls now have to include birth certif­icates and perform every natural bodily func­tion to be deemed worthwhile, even to the point of replying to the human voice. I spent a few undignified moments in a toy store recently talking to a doll who was supposed to respond with hugs and endearments. My attempts to elicit even a simple "hello," however, succeeded only in making me look very ridiculous -batteries weren't included. 
I guess some would argue that these toys are a progressive, natural outgrowth of a technologically-oriented society. They might even say that such gadgets are beneficial, pre­paring children for the types of electronic devices they will encounter later in life. 
I, howeve~ will take my Lite Brite, Legos and Mr. Potato Head and retreat into a time that allowed me to be a kid, to experiment with imagination and to indulge my creativity. Be­cause when I was young, toys really were bet­ter. 


Design Editor ................. Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout... . . . . Kathy Behrmann Design Assistant ............ Tom Schiesser Accent Copy Editor ........ Lisa Young Typesetters ........................... Pat Clarke Accent Layout ... .......... Melinda Murphy ............................................ Smed Laboe Typists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy News Editor.. ........... Jim Riley ND Day Editor ............. Laurine Megna Copy Editor .... . ...... Chris Julka Ad Design................ . . . .... Fred Nelson Sports Copy Editor .......... Marty Strasen Photographer .............. ... Steve Grabicki Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Eric Bergamo 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for S40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. · 
~Godfatht:r•s Pizza~ Find one. Its worth it. ™ 

I TOPPING PLUS EXTRA CHEESE PLUS A I I TWO LITER BOTTLE OF COKE I 
I1 $5.25 plus tax & delivery I Godfatt.u 's I
I One ooupon per piau •• porticlpo.U., loco.-~Pizza. II Not volid In coooblnolioa wilh OOJ ....... oft'or. -\;1/f •fllld ~­
Offer expires ll/30/86 II 5 worth tt. I

1 

~--------------------~ 

We Deliver to a Limited Area 

52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN 

The Observer Monday, November 10, 1986 -page 3 

Hurley visits campus, is honored at brunch 
By MARY HEILMANN Assistant News Editor 
Former Notre Dame student Kevin Hurley was honored by the Class of 1989 for his "undy­ing courage and fighting spirit" at a brunch in South Dining Hall Sunday welcoming him back to campus. 
Hurley, visiting Notre Dame with his parents this weekend, was presented with a plaque by Sophomore Class President Pat Cooke, who called Hurley "an inspiration to us all." 
Hurley was struck by a hit­and-run driver on Sept. 7, 1985, when he was a Notre Dame freshman. He has been under­going rehabilitation since December 1985 and has received operations necessary to prepare his amputated leg for a prosthetic device. 
"I had surgery Aug. 1 and that was just to take part of my left shoulder muscle and loop it around the end of the stump. Everything since the operation seems great; I've really been working hard,"said Hurley. 
In order to prepare for an eventual return to Notre Dame as a student, Hurley said he has been sitting in on some classes in a private high school "to res­tock the memory banks." 
"Hopefully by next fall I'll be ready to come back to Notre Dame ... hopefully," Hurley said. 
Hurley and his parents came to South Bend for today's pre­sentencing hearing of Mary Beth Gallivan, a South Bend resident who pleaded guilty in connection with the accident. Hurley said his parents and lawyer will attend the hearing but added "I'm not about to go to that." 
Gallivan is scheduled for sen­tencing later this month. 

Trees and bushes seemed to spring from the ground this weekend near the Clarke Memorial Fountain as landscapers put the rmishing 
The Observer/Steve Grabicki 
touches on the quad for the football weekend. Cavanaugh Hall looms in the background. 

often. Fisher said he and Tack indeed different from "typi­ganizational structure than the their new presidents. "We released Hesburgh's name be­cal" presidents. typical president, Fisher said. don't expect (the study) to be
Survey 
cause "Father Ted was so far "We found that the effective "But the effective president a cure-all. 
· ahead we didn't mind talking president is more committed to still respects the chain of com­continuedfrom page 1 about him. "Father Ted was a vision than to the institution mand," he added. "It's not definitive," he said. to name five presidents whom way, way out in front." itself," he said. "The effective Hesburgh, who has been "It's simply an additional aid they considered effective, Fis­Contacted at his office Sun­president is also more commit­Notre Dame's president since for the selection process." her said. Of the 412 presidents day, Hesburgh said he didn't ted to a vision or a cause than 1952, said he agreed these char­Notre Dame's Board of Trus­mentioned, Hesburgh was know why the respondents personal popularity or even acteristics are important to tees will elect the University's named most often. would name him the most ef­personal achievement." being a good president. "You next president on Friday. 
"He was the most respected fective president. In addition, Fisher said, "He can't lead without a vision," Does Hesburgh think the five and admired president," Fis­"I think they ought to have a is less the colleague and more Hesburgh said. men mentioned as presidential her said. "He was far ahead of recount," he said. the leader." "Too many people do what is candidates possess the charac­the number two person." According to Fisher, the The effective president also popular or what will get them teristics identified by the 
Fisher declined to name the study's preliminary results in­can make decisions more applause rather than what is study? ."It would be prepos­
person mentioned second most dicate effective presidents are easily and is less bound by or-right," he said. "You have to terous for me to answer that do what is right to get where about five different men,'' Hes­you want to go." burgh said. 
But, he said, "I have a strong 
Fisher said he and Tack hope conviction we're going to have the study's results will help col­the right leader here. At least leges and universities select it's always been that way." 
period for possible appeal has expired, and will be set by
Commons 
Rabb, according to McNevin.

COME TALK 
continuedfrompage 1 
Anastasio said he would have one, if they want one," he saia. to consult his lawyer, but ex­Anastasio said not all of the pected that he would not ap­
under-aged violators were peal. 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's 
students. The settlement came just prior to a hearing scheduled for "Just a small group (is in­Mishawaka's City Hall. The volved)," said Anastasio. "The hearing was to have been held 

TO THE 
BEST IN THE 
majority are nice people. It's there instead of Indianapolis_ only a small percentage who because a considerable num­are a problem." ber of minors, many of them Notre Dame students, had been 
The five-day closing period scheduled to testify, according will take place once the 45-day to McNevin. 

BUSINESS! 
We'll tell you about career opportunities and summer internships . ·: SENIORS ! with one of the world's 
• 

: Looking for Employment? ; organizations. 
largest financial services •; Ifyou're ready for -:• ; *A career Challenge: ; *A Higher Income :
Wednesday, November 12 
• AB P . . •
: * etter osttton ;
•
•

7:30p.m. 
• 
•

University Club 
; is ready for you! : 
•

Rifreshments will be served. 
• 
; First Investors Corporation is holding a presentation and : ; interviews TQDAY ,6:00p.m. in room 222 : ; Hayes-Healy. Call Career and Placement Services or : ; Tim Branigan (N.D. '86) at 312/853-6111 for more info. :


• 
; ALL MAJORS WELCOME : 
• 

Trustees 
continuedfrom page 1 
David Tyson, vice president for student affairs. 
In a Nov. 2 story, the Chicago Tribune reported that Malloy would be nominated and con­firmed as the next president. 
Contacted that same day, Malloy discounted the Tribune story, saying "it seems foolish for them to venture such a strong assertion when (the trustees) haven't voted on it." 
The Tribune stood by its story, however. 
If the board decides to divest completely, it would mean a radical change in Notre Dame's current investment policy. 
This policy calls for divest­ment from firms which do not subscribe to the enhanced Sul­livan Principles, the guidelines that commit companies to work actively for the elimina-
Alcohol 
continuedfrom page 1 
have is people just drink be­
cause it's part of the social life 
here. People don't think about 
it at all," she said. 
According to Rissmeyer, "This is not a prohibitionist ap­proach to alcohol; it's an edu­cational approach." 
Rissmeyer said the overall goal for the program is to rec­ognize problem drinking. 
"There are some people who are pre-disposed to alcoholism. Other people may not be al­coholic, but consuming alcohol may cause them some prob­lems. For example, not being able to get up in the morning because they're hung-over. 
"When (the student's) drink, they may get overly emotional, teary, and angry. They may say things they then later regret, and in the long run this could have a negative effect on their relationships with other people," said Rissmeyer. 
Problem-drinking is when other problems develop be­cause of alcoholic consump­tion, according to Rissmeyer. 
Rissmeyer said each workshop was planned by stu­dents, and there will be student presenters at each program. 
Chris Bodewes, member of the Alcohol Education Council, said, "We will talk about ways to promote responsible drink­ing on the campus." 
"We want to educate the wo­men of Saint Mary's on alcohol, its use, and its effects," Bodewes said. 
"My feeling about alcohol is: Let's think ahead and not be stupid about it. You should not not drink but take responsibil­ity for your choice to drink," she said. 
Bodewes said the organiza­tion started 10 years ago. This is the third Alcohol Awareness Week in three consecutive years. 
"The Alcohol Education Council consists of 13 students, and we all work together in a group effort," Bodewes said. 
"We're interested in other women at Saint Mary's who would like to meet with us and be involved with alcohol aware­ness on campus," she said. 
Rissmeyer is predicting a successful week. "We are hoping for a large turn-out. There will be probably between 30 to 80 students at each lec­ture. I'm sure it will be a great week, and I would encourage everyone to come to at least one of the lectures." 
The Observer Monday, November 10, 1986-page 4 
tion of apartheid from South Mrican society. 
In its May 9 meeting, the board modified this policy to demonstrate its willingness to divest completely under two circumstances. 
The board authorized total divestment if it believes U.S. companies "are not influenc­ing the dismantling of the sys­tem of apartheid," or if "cir­cumstances warrant this action because of further deterioration of conditions in South Africa." 
Since that May meeting, IBM, GM and Honeywell have announced they'll pull out of South Mrica. 
In addition, Coca-Cola Co. announced it would sell all of its holdings in South Mrica in protest of that country's policy of racial segregation. Donald Keough, chairman of the Board of Trustees, is the president of Coca-Cola Co. 
Currently, Notre Dame has investments in 29 countries 
AP Photo

doing business in South Africa Party Birthday totaling $33 million, or 9.1 per­
A large sign portraying American Eugene the Sandinista Front for National Liberation cent of its endowment. 
Hasenfus being captured by a Sandinista sol­(FSLN) and the the tenth anniversary of the Since 1978, the University has dier looms above Nicaraguans gathered Satur­death of FSLN founder Carlos Fonsecadivested from a dozen compan­day in Carlos Fonseca Amador square in Amador.
ies which did not meet its Managua to celebrate the 25th anniversary of 
standards. 
The Arts and Letters Business Society

Procter and Gamble Finance 
,..____rl. ·~----­

invites you to aHend 
presents Mr. Gene Koster, 

.......... 
'an executive in residence' from 
the Acacia group. 

An informational presentation 
----------~· ·~--------··~ 
He will speak about opportunities in 

Tuesday, November 11 
6:00 -8:00 pm financial services for Notre Dame
Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
Arts and Letters majors. 

refreshments will be served 
~·----------~· I I
tonight: 7:00p.m.

open to undergraduates 
room 220 Hayes-Healy

and MBA's 
J 
NOTRE DAME WELCOMES 
Michael P. Esposito, Jr., 
EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND , CONTROLLER OF THE 
Chase Manhattan Bank 
hosting a reception on November 12 at the Center for 
Continuing Education (CCE-lower level) front 7 to 9 p.m. 
Mike warmly extends an invitation to all students and 
faculty members who are interested in a discussion about 


~ 
VieW~_O_i_D_t_______
Mo-nday_.No-vemb-er10_.198-6-p-ages 

Elections may be demise of 'Reagan revolution' 

Tuesday, Nov.4, 1986, is a day that shall live in infamy. The Reagan Revo­lution came to a grinding halt as the Democrats regained control of the Sen­ate. The move to restore sanity and traditional American values to the gov­ernment has stopped. Tax increases, government regulation, an end to aid to freedom fighters and the end of the realignment of the U.S. Supreme Court are but a few of the disastrous things that should be occuring within the next two years. 
Rich Coglianese 
the way we were 

With the Democrats in control of the committee chairs, they will be able to schedule when issues come up for votes. This does not bode well for Ronald Reagan or for the country in general. Let us take a look at the way the most vital Senate committees will look for the next two years. 
Joseph Biden (D-Del.) will take over the Judiciary Committee from Sen. Strom Thurmond <R-.S.C). This is a bad prospect for the reshaping of the federal judiciary and the Supreme Court in specific. With all of the games that the Democrats played with William Renquist, this will be a tough committee for the President. With Ren-
Auditorium use ends if drinking continues 
Dear Editor: 
Believe me, oh believe me when I tell you that I know how nasty a room full of stale beer cans can smell in the mor­ning. Well, that was the smell that greeted a certain professor at 8 a.m. in the Engineering Auditorium early last week. The cause? A mountain of empties left behind from the movies shown there over the weekend. Suffice it to say that the professor and several of the big guys under the dome are less than pleased. In fact, a clear message has been "sent down." If more evidence of drinking during the mpvies is found, the privilege of using the En­gineering Auditorium will be revoked. I think we all know how painful that 
Doonesbury 
quist being approved 66-33 and Daniel Manion (a good lawyer for whom Fa­ther Hesburgh wrote a letter of sup­port) being confirmed as a federal ap­pellate court judge by a 48-46 vote, it will be tough to put judges on the bench who want to interpret the law and not make it. Biden will do his best to grab the spotlight as he tries to get his presidential bid off the ground. And we must not forget Ted Kennedy's perfor­mance on the nomination of Renquist to the Supreme Court. Kennedy calling anybody extreme is truly a joke. One thing though, Mr. Kennedy, Chief Jus­tice Renquist is not as extreme on wo­men's issues as you are. The Chief Jus­tice believes that all women have a right to live. I wish I could say the same thing about you. 
Speaking of Kennedy, he will be taking over for Orrin Hatch <R-Utah) at Labor and Human Resources. It is unnecessary to say what type ~f big spender Kennedy is. He is very angry at the spending cuts that the White House was able to achieve in the last six years. I do not think that Kennedy has ever found a tax increase or social program that he did not like. It is once again time for the "master taxer" to set his program of fiscal and governmental irresponsibility loose on the American people. 
Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) will replace 
P.O.BoxQ 
could be. The last thing any of us want is the elimination of a social option around here. So? Well, I wouldn't call you a liar if you read my message as telling you to drink before and after, but not during the movies in the Engi­neering Auditorium. That's all for now from the Hall of Justice. 
Don Montanaro Student Body Vice-President 
Panel changed prior thought on feminism 
Dear Editor: 
We are writing this letter in response to Tuesday night's (Nov. 4) panel dis­cussion at Saint Mary's entitled "Are You a Closet Feminist?" We would like to thank the Women's Studies Commit­tee, the panel and the audience who par­ticipated in presenting such an in­
AN/J NOW511£'5 60T
N(JTSO IJ/UI.. 5HE'5 
TO GCT THI<OfJGH TH/5
Ftf.LING TtRRIBiY 
MEMORIAL f3ERVIC&
GUMY 7HAT '3Hf3 
WITH All... OFPICK'S
WA5N'T WITH lJICI< 
8/RJJ/NG BIJ[){)J/3.
AT THe TIM/3. 
\.
I 
Jesse Helms <R-N.C.) as chairman of the Senate Agricultural Committee. The Agricultural Committee is vital since it sets farm policy. The Democrats on this committee will return to the failed policies of the past as they will force through the program of farm subsidies and paying farmers not to produce. This will lead to higher prices for food in the market place which will help to turn inflation loose once again. They will give farmers the hope that through subsidies they can turn the U.S. farm economy around. Instead, they will only give farmers the false hope that they can help. Not only will this policy hurt the farmers now but it will keep the farm economy from rebounding for years to come. 
Retiring Sen. Barry Goldwater <R­Ariz.) will turn over his chair fo Sam Nunn (D-Ga.). Although Nunn has fol­lowed a more conservative defense policy including suport for the Strategic Defense Initiative, he has been hesitant to support the large funding· that is nec­essary for SDI to be deployed. Nunn has worked very closely with Goldwater these last six years and is generally regarded to be one of the leading experts on Capitol Hill with regards to weapons and weapons sys­tems. 
Bob Packwood <R-Ore.) will be replaced at Finance by Lloyd Bensten . (D-Tex.). This will spell big trouble. 
formative, thought-provoking discussion. 
Like some people, we entered the dis­cussion with preconceived notions of what a feminist is, wondering if we could possibly fit into this category. The panel dispelled our misconceptions that the feminist movement encompasses only the radical extremists that are of­ten focused on in the movement. Feminism, however, embraces ·all types of people, men and women, liberals and conservatives. We learned from the discussion that, to many people, feminism is the belief that wo­men should have the equal opportunity to lead a life that fulfills their personal needs and goals; and our society should allow women to display those qualities which best exemplify them as human beings, whether it be through a career, motherhood or both. Our society ex­pects men to be more rational, more 
Garry Trudeau 
MRS./?? I JEReMY/ 
8f<O(JGHT YOU COME (1(}/CKLY! APEPP£3RMINT. I f(}(JNOA fXJP5, AU I'V/3 REAUY 
GOT !5 '57RING.' 600{JP£3W/ 
I 
Bensten and the Democrats will be able 
to use this post to make both tax in­
crease and protectionism look favor­
able to the American people. Mter years of responsible management, the finance committee will be used to help set up protectionist walls around Amer­ican shores. This will only hurt both American firms that export goods (in fact the very car industry that it is sup­posed to help) and will also be respon­sible for causing world wide recession. Protectionism is very dangerous and the President must do all that he can to avoid protectionist legislation from becoming law. 
Reagan, unfortunately, will have to extensively use his veto power over the lOOth Congress. It is unfortunate that the Reagan Revolution to restore tradi­tional American values has come to such a grinding halt. This just means that work must be done to insure that the Reagan Revolution, now experienc­ing just a temporary setback, will con­tinue long after Ronald Reagan leaves office in January of 1989. Although work· must be done, this is not an insurmount­able mountain that must be climbed. It is still possible to insure that the Reagan Revolution be continued long after Ronald Reagan. 
Rich Coglianese is a sophomore Gov­ernment and Economics Major. 
intelligent and stronger than women. In turn, women should be nurturing, domestic and emotional. For feminists, however, the ability to nurture and show. emotions is not wrong, but qualities that can be shared by both sexes. 
Finally, we would like to challenge those who attended the discussion to spread the issue by generating con­versation among their friends, families and colleagues. The high attendance at the discussion clearly shows a desire to find out what "feminism" means. Again, thanks to the Women's Studies Committee and we hope to see more panel discussions and continued high attendance at the Women's Studies meetings to keep the interest alive. 
Mary Ann White 
Elizabeth Neill 
Mary Huffman 
Saint Mary's Students 
Quote of the day 
"It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God." 
Matthew 19:24 

General Board 
Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuerrf!ann Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Photography Manager .......... James Carroll· 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimhoit and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Before and after in this week's soaps 
ALL MY CHILDREN: Brooke refused to let Mark, who had be­come a drug addict hide out from Earl in her lake cabin. Mark, in need of a fix, rushed out and was confronted by Earl who had a gun. Jeremy vowed revenge against Earl for slashing Erica's face and against Matt for his ad­vances towards Erica. Coming: 
Jeremy's involvement in Earl's
r 
r murder gets deeper. 
r 
ANOTHER WORLD: Jamie ar­
ranged blood tests for Brittany's
r 
r 
baby which proved Peter is the 
r real father. Michael proposed to Donna and Mary persuaded her to marry him. Mitch told Rachel she probably still has strong feelings for him. Coming: Nicole has a surprise forpanna. 
AS THE WORLD TURNS: Craig continued to fret over Iva's con­dition. Sierra worried about the identity of her unborn baby's fa­ther. Dusty was still unsure about Meg's motives. Tom and Margo hit another snag in their mar­riage. Coming: A visitor is ex­pected. 
CAPITOL: Ali was alerted by a curious message. Clarissa's suspicions about Baxter's mo­tives were raised again. Brenda was confused by D.J. 's warnings Coming: Kelly is forced into making another "deal." 
DALLAS: Jenna thought her stomach pains were the start of an ulcer. Cliff met Jack's wife with his eye on her possible share of Ewing oil. Sue Ellen's vendetta against JR and his mistress proved financially rewarding. JR and Bobby began investigating Parmalee's claims. Coming: Miss Ellie may have a change of heart. 
DAYS OF OUR LIVES: Robin and Mike made Jove but she turned down his proposal. Mike told her he doubted she'd go through with her wedding to Mitch. Kayla saw Orpheus put his copies of Bo's and Britta's tattoos in a safe. Kim found Neil drunk and passed out on a couch. Com­ing: Kim worries about her growing feelings for Neil. 
FALCON CREST: Troubled by Kit's denunciation of Dan Fixx, Lance fired him from his job at the spa. Fixx, in turn, became suspicious of Kit's mysterious ac­tivities..Julia shocked everyone with her new plans. Coming: Lance finds new complications. 
GENERAL HOSPITAL: Scorpio began doubting Duke's guilt. Bobbie places an ad in the paper for a surrogate mother. Monica threatened to expose Edward's and JL's plot unless she got more Quartermaine money. Coming: Ramsey sets his forces in mo­tion. 
GUIDING LIGHT: Alex learned some unpleasant facts about Dr. Jarrett who was trying to per­suade India to become his con­fidante. Jesse fretted over Calla's changing attitudes towards her. Maureen faced new problems with a vengeful Chelsea.Coming: Kyle reworks his plans. 
KNOTS LANDING: A fierce fight between Eric and Michael made Karen realize something was wrong. Paige moved into the house. Both Peter and Sumner were upset to hear Ben planned to do a story on Peter. Coming: Peter decides to face Sylvia's implied threats. · 
LOVING: Jim was sure Jane had him removed as Kelly's counselor. Father Simon warned Jim he was making a mistake. in leaving the priesthood. Steve 
• was alarmed at how deeply in debt Harry was because of his newest gambling binge.Coming: Trisha feels threatened by Nick. ONE LIFE TO LIVE: Dorian returned to the jail to get evidence to clear Dan of murder­ing Susan. She was cheered by her former feUow inmates for winning prison reform. Spitz, the matron; refused to give Dorian information about Susan. Jes­sica was returned to Clint and Vickie, but Maria was determined to force Clint to believe Niki really did kidnap his baby. Coming: Clint begins to believe the worst. RYAN'S HOPE: Erik met with a mystery woman. John-0 was up­set at Lizzie's threat and hinted he'd leave town. Delia asked Roger for $10,000 to give to Har­land so that he'll leave town in­stead. Ryan becamejealous over Rich's defense ofLizzie. Coming: Erik gets his instructions and moves in on his quarry. SANTA BARBARA: Gina, Sop­hia and the pilot survived the plane crash. During a rescue at­tempt Cruz's boat broke up in the storm. He and Tori were marooned together. In a stupor, caused by his injuries, Cruz hal­luciated about Eden while making love to Tori. Coming: Keith investigates Courtney's possible guilt in Madeline's death. SEARCH FOR TOMORROW: Kat fought her growing attraction to Quinn. Patty rushed to the airport to be with Cagney. Jo visited David in jail where he insisted the leather glove she brought wasn't his. Jo then recalled seeing one like it at the judge's home. Coming: Owen becomes suspicious of Quinn's questions about Malcolm. 
THE YOUNG & THE RESTLESS: . Traci began recalling times with Tim. Jack continued to try to keep the Shelter. Jill continued to try to persuade Jack to leave "Skid Row." Coming: Lauren reacts to Paul's decision to leave. 
I OR6, McNauqht S.tJndk:ate 
Ihe Observer 
The Accent department is accepting applications for: 
• Features Copy Editor 
For information contact Mary Jacoby at The Observer (239-5313), 3rd floor Lafortune. 
Monday, November 10, 1986-page 6 

SMC Around the World in a semester program 
Imagine climbing on the Great Wall of China and watching the sun set behind the Taj Mahal. Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents have this opportunity on the Saint Mary's Semester Around the World Program. 
The program runs every other fall and will be offered again in 1987. Students spend the majority of the semester in Madras, India but also travel to Toyko, Hong Kong; mainland China, Nepal; northern India and Thailand. Participants also have the opportunity to fly to Moscow or Western Europe before return­ing to the States. 
In Madras, female students study at Stella Maris College and male students at Loyola College, both private Catholic institutions affiliated with the University of Madras. Students are offered classes such as Indian culture, religion, art philosophy, history, politics, music and dance. Many educational field trips are also offered. Prior to this year the courses were only applicable as electives. Now, they fulfill core requirements and are credit toward a major. 
Most importantly, the Semes­ter Around the World Program ex­poses students to the entirely dif­ferent cultures of South Asia, the Far East and Southeast Asia. Saint Mary's student Mary LaSala, a former participant says learning about an un­familiar culture was the most rewarding part of her trip. "They don't even have Coke there," said LaSala. 

Today, many people are con­<:erned with safety abroad. LaSala said she felt very secure and never threatened. She found the people of Madras to be very peaceful. She spoke of an inci­dent when a beggar saved her from the harassment ofa ricksha driver. 
In the past students have had unique opportunities. In 198.3, the group had tea with Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The stu­dents spent more than two hours in the prime minister's private study discussing political issues. In 1985, the group spent time with Mother Theresa in Calcutta. 
The cost of the program is the price of a semester's tuition at Saint Mary's plus $2500. The fee includes plane fare and all travel­
ing expenses. All accommoda­
tions are of excellent quality. 
Faculty advisor Dr. Cyriac Pul­lapilly ofSaint Mary's strongly en­courages students to participate, especially those at Notre Dame for whom the program has been recently opened. All credits transfer to both schools and-no foreign language is required. Students need to be well qualified and LaSala adds, "Ad­venturous and very accepting, not a whiner." 
Interested students should at­tend the Around the World Night on Nov. 14th from 6 to 8 p.m. at Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium. Short movies and videos will be shown about the program, and Indian snacks will be served at a reception imme­diately following. Former partici­pants and professors who have traveled to India will be present to talk with students. 
students seem ti> be having 
a ball outside the Taj Mahal. LEFT: The Great Wall of China as seen through the lens of a program participant. 

The Observer Monday, November 10, 1986-page 7 
Sports Briefs 
Coca-Cola NIT Tournament tickets for the Nov. 21 game between Notre Dame and Western Kentucky go on sale today at Gate 10 of the ACC. Only two tickets may be purchased with each student ID card. Tickets for both lower and upper level seating will be sold on a first-come, first-serve basis. -The Observer 
The WVFI sports staff will have a mandatory meeting tonight at 10 at the sports desk. Winter sports assaign­ments will be discussed. -The Observer 
Interhall hockey teams may sign up for ice times start­ing today after 1 p.m. A limit of one hour per week per team will apply. The fee is $50 per hour. For more infor­mation contact Tom Carroll at 239-5247. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
MiaiDi-Penn State duel still unclear 
Associated Press 10-0 and No. 6 Penn State 11-0. Notre Dame won the national If No. 1-ranked Miami and championship by defeating top­No. 2 Penn State remain un-· ranked Alabama 24-23 in the 
beaten, they will stage a national-championship shootout in either the Fiesta, Florida Citrus or Gator Bowls. 
Miami would like to play in the state of Florida for the home-field advantage. Penn State's preference apparently is the Fiesta Bowl at Tempe, Ariz. 
Since The Associated Press adopted the practice of voting for the national champion after the bowl games in 1968, only twice have two major indepen­dent teams gone through the regular season unbeaten and untied. 
It happened in 1973 when third-ranked Notre Dame was Sugar Bowl, while Penn State beat Louisiana State 16-9 in the Orange Bowl. 
In 1976, top-rated Pittsburgh and No. 17 Rutgers were 11-0. 
· Pitt wound up on top by defeat­ing Georgia 27-3 'in the Sugar Bowl, but Rutgers remained unbeaten, untied, uninvited and unelected, finishing No. 17. 
Miami and Penn State are 9-0 after the Hurricanes downed Pitt 37-10 and the Nittany Lions edged Maryland 17-15 Satur­day. Their national champion­ship showdown still is alive. 
Miami has home games against Tulsa on Nov. 15 and East Carolina on Nov. 27. Penn State visits Notre Dame next Saturday and plays Pitt at home Nov. 22, the official bowl selection date. 
The Fiesta, Florida Citrus and Gator bowls had represen­tatives with Miami and Penn State on Saturday and all three claimed they will be competi­tive money-wise with the Or­ange, Sugar and Cotton Bowls, which have conference tie-ups and can't invite both Miami and Penn State. 
"If all things were equal, we definitely would like to play in the Orange Bowl," Miami Ath­letic Director Sam Jankovich said. "That's our community, that's where our fans would be and it would be a very good thing for our program." 
But the Orange Bowl host team is the Big Eight cham­pion, so Miami and Penn State must look elsewhere. 

Volleyball
continuedfrom page 12 
In a grueling five-game match, the Irish skinned the 'Cats, 9-15, 15-11, 15-10,13-15, 15­
6. After losing game one, Wal­ler led the Irish to the second­game win with some excellent blocking. Waller continued to sparkle, and Zanette Bennett put away consecutive kills, amid the chants of "Z" to give the Irish a win in game three. 
The fourth game turned the crowd's excitement level up a notch from a fever pitch to a frenzy. Nqtre Dame seemed to be on its way to ending it in four games when it assumed a 12-9lead. But Northwestern put together an impressive string of points to claim a 14-12 lead, and finally took the victory, 15­13. 
But the Wildcats could not capitalize on any momentum their comeback may have given them. The fifth game, which should· have been the high point, turned into a rout as Northwestern made several costly errors. 
Waller led the Irish with 16 kills and a .433 kill percentage. Bennett was right behind with 15 kills, and Cunnigham added 
14. Taryn Collins, inserted as an outside hitter when Karen Sapp dislocated her knee cap, chipped in a career-high 10 kills. 
The Irish had little time to celebrate, however, as Pit­tsburgh came in yesterday, complete with a 24-9 record, a No. 10 ranking in the Midwest regional· and a possible NCAA bid in its future. Notre Dame lost the first game again, but came back to claim a four­game victory, 13-15, 15-10, 15­11, 15-10. . 
Lambert said he was pleased that the team was able to come back and play well enough to win, after an emotionally ex­hausting game the night before, something it couldn't do in this year's Hoosier Classic. 
"It was tough to come back today after last night's tough match," he said. "We couldn't do that in the tournament ear­lier this year when we beat In­diana, and then the next day against Purdue, we were still playing Indiana. We oeat that today." 
Lambert praised the block­~~g done by the Irish that thwarted the powerful attacks of the Panthers. Maureen Shea tallied six solo blocks to top the Irish. Kathleen Morin and Wal­ler added five blocking assists as well. 
The Irish now have captured 21 wins in their last 24 matches and are on the road Wednesday to face Illinois-Chicago. The weekend's success gives the team a better record than even Lambert, who characteristic­ally sets extremely high goals, had expected. In fact, he may have been only half-kidding when the beaming coach called the weekend, "one step for Notre Dame, one giant step for mankind." 
SIDE OUTS -Notre Dame has vaulted up to fifth in the Midwest Region in the Midwest Volleyball Magazine poll released this week. It was not rated in the top-20 prior to last week ... The magazine also lists the Irish as "the region's most improved team" ... Kathy Cun­ningham was selected as one of the region's top five fresh­men. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, a~cepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds Is 3 p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five

Classifie-ds characters per day. 
IN SERIOUS NEEDIPARENTS MUST OAR HOUSE; COLD BEER & LIQUOR, RIGHT TO LIFE HAVE BLOCK OF 8 PENN TX OR 2 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE RIGHT TO LIFE 
BLOCKS OF 3 PLS.CALL1272·WILL BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. RIGHT TO LIFE PAY Sl MONDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 10, GUITAR 12 STRING, $180. 277-4482 
L..--N_o_T_Ic_es~l .._I_F_o_RR_E_Nr___,l I..___F_o_R_sA_LE----J 
PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO NOTRE DAMIOSAINT MARY'S RIGHTTYPING AVAILABLE Guaata coming for game need place AFTER 8. 

NEED PENN STUDENT TX'S..CALL 808 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. TO LIFE WILL SPONSOR A SPEECH287-4082 to atay? Sllvarbrook Bed-dBrHkfaat 1272 SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SS AND GENERAL MEETING. PROF. 
In Nil ... Clean, quiet, raaaonable. 81&­SKIS OLIN UNUSED 195CM SIZE 13 OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 11).5:30. 233-JANET SMITH WILL SPEAK ON 884-2323 evenlnga. 
LOOK BNDGS $220 277-4482 AFTER need ONE ticket for PENN SlAnE call 2342. "DEFENDING THE PR().LJFE POSI­WordproceAing Call LaVonna 287· 
6 Chrla X1371 TION; ANSWERING THE HARDEST9024 GARAGE FOR RENT ONE HALF MILE Hungry? call Tha YELLOW SUB­QUESTIONS" THERE IS NO CHARGE 
FROM NO 30S'MO. 2723491 MACINTOSH Computer, naw Main NEED 1-4 PENN STATE GA'S CALL MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery houra: AND THE SPEECH WILL BEGIN ATEXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL Logic Board under warranty, lncludea X2288 Monday ·Thuradey 5pm-~2am; Friday 9PM IN THE LAFORTUNE LITTLEMRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
128K main unit, keyboard and mouM. Spm-2am; Saturday Spm-tam; Sunday THEATER 
I NEED PSU atu tlcketa AND YUGOS.. 4pm-10pm. LAVIA atuda & GAa DOC 283-3380 CARNIVAL OF CAREERS Ia corning 
ARTS AND LETTERS NOV.11 TUES to ANGELA at 3-IIPM RICH DAD NEEDS 2 Penn Stela GA'a. COLLEGE SWEATSHIRTS! ,._ ALL WELCOMEIIIIII SPON­can Frank, 288-2911 ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING SORED BY SMC CAREER COUNSEL· 
................................................................ I WANTED I ~~~~-~~~~-~~:~.~~~................................ 
LOST/FOUND I I TICKETS
WANTEDDOMINO'SPIZZADELIVERY HALLS OR CALL 283-1183. $12.00 lNG DEPT. AND SMC ST UDENT 
PERSONNEl $5.00 AN HOUR Family back home wanta to -NO GOVT""* GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO 
I NEED PENN ST GAa.272-8308 beat LSU. I need tlx. C-.!1 Mlka-2371 ................................................................
LOST: Mt of rm. 324 keya, 01 key, WEEKSI FLEXIBLE NIGHT·TIME ROCK AND ROLLIII R.E.M FANS IT'S CARRIE''THE WANDERER"and varloua paraonal kaya on a heart HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· NEED 2 SMU TIX PLEASE HElPfll need PENN STATE ROCK AND ROLLIII Time Ia running ROBERTS BDAYIWISH HER A HAPPY ahapad kay chain with lnHial "D". Very TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 CALL JAY AT £2174 G.A.'a or Student tlx. call even. altar out. Moat of our tapaa of vary rare ONE-IF YOU CAN FIND HER. TRYlmportantll If found, piHae call SOUTH BEND AV 277·2151 10 pm. Thanka Ann, 284-5454 R.E.M tracka (11-ald..,lmporta, out-of· DOORSTEPS,STRANGE FRESHMENS Dabble X4297. 
print ftaxl-dlaca) have already been ROOMS,OR SOMEWHERE IN THAT In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE PENN ST. GA'S FOR SALE. 277~296. claimed. You 81111 have a chance to EVIL HOUSE ...FROM THE SOPH WHO FOUND: BASEBALL GLOVE In front State GA or Student tlcketlll Call BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE hear "Burning Down" S "Whlta Tor· TURNED OUT TO BE LIKE YOU AFTERof Alumni cau Mary 3781 Theraaa X4041111 Will pay blgl BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO nedo" and "Tighten Up" ao order now. ALL. BURST... PLEASE HELP ME ...NEED 28 NEED 1 PENN ST GA CALL MIKE 1582 Moat tunea atudlo quality on highLOST bafora Oct. Break: Faded Levl'a Travel field poaltlon Immediately avail· PSU TIX STUD OR GA WILL quality tapaa. Call Chin-Broa. Inc.

jacket. No aide pocketa, no l.d. S able. Good commlaalona, valuable DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT at 2495 or 2550 to r-rve your copy. OLOOKING FOR THE MAN THAT WAS pleaM raturn-grHt aantlmental value. 
work experience, travel, and other 1245 OR 1352. NEED ONE STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET AT THE BACK STAGE HOLLOWEENCall Polly at 381_1. 
banaflta. Call Brad Nelaon (toll free) FOR PENN STATE. CALL MATTS. AT NIGHT . WORE A SAFlEY PIN 
1-800-433-7747 for a complete lnfor· 
BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN SlAnE TIX 1750. SOPHOMORES: ROLF'S POOL THROUGH HIS MOUTH. HE ALSO matlon mallar. 
.CALL TJ ·283-1899 PARTYI COME JOIN US IN EVERY· LIKES HIS GIN.SUSAN THE LOST ·Set of three keya all three were need PSU GA;a 277·9794 THING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO DO PUNKER.2333321. on ona amall ring two ara houM kaya, NEED PENN STATE GAa ·CALL 283-IN A POOL-WED, NOV. 12
Two guya -king ride to Cleveland· 
Thankaglvlng break PleaH help. call
one a maater lock key loat In South 3848. CALL 14QO..I need 1 PENN ST GA or 
Jim at 1418. Good Job NO novice craw agel nat Mic­
Pining Hall, waat aide If found, piHae ................................................................. STUDENT Tickatl Bob$$$ Ara you running aD&D game and need 
call Stephen, x1968 I need 2 Penn ST. GA'a. Call 1352 or another player? If ao call 4278 higan. Now gat payched for Philadel­
1441. NEED 4 PENN ST STD TIX CALL JILL 
phia II Good luck at the Froatblta. Only LOST FRIDAY NITE AT THEODORE'S: RIDE NEEDED TO L.I.,N.Y. FOR T· X 2949 . Did u party In the Walah Quint on Hal· 2 mora wHka of morning practice.

LEVI DENIM JACKET WL4BEL IN GIVING CAN LEAVE TUES OR WED Need Penn St Tlx 2 GA and 1 STUD lowean? Bleat, huh? Wall, mora than BACK·KD.J. BIANCHI 8007G-CALL CALl JEN 284-4188. SSS Call Kevin at 272-8562 Student and GA tickets needed for our ahowar of beer Ia gon..lf you GENTLEMEN:X3128 Penn State. Willing to pay ''acalpar'a picked up a HI of keya £123 and a Keep phrlday night open to bid a 
Wanted achool rapraMntetlve for col· NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S RICH 1218 prtcaa" Thla Ia getting daaparate. Call detex pi-return. Phone 2876 aak 
phond, phlnal pharawell to PhilLOST: POCKETBOOK CONTAINING leglate aportlng company. Great pay, 2339. for Krlata. 

Sheridan. Lola can come, tool Lola ofCOLLECTION OF BAD POETRY. LOST HELP I NEED 3 PENN STATE STUD TIX 

Call collectt-813-34&-2009. 
chill and other fun. Call Q, 287-5903,IN FRONT OF DEClO. I SAW SOME· CALL CATHY 2914 Need atudant and GA tlcketa for Penn ARTS AND LETTERS for datalla of the phaatlval...

BODY READING IT AS THEY WALKED WaHraaMa, Waltara needed at Knol· State. Will give you my roommate In COLLEGE SWEATSHIRTS! OUT OF DEClO BUT I DID NOT KNOW lwood Country Club. No experience I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL return for a good Hat. Call Paula at ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING 
Thla Ia how tha copy box for Friday'aI'D LOST IT AT THAT POINT. CALL necessary. Knollwood Country Club, FRED AT 288-2821 2976. HALLS OR CALL 283-1183. $12.00 

lAue ahould have looked llka:250 IF YOU FOUND IT. REWARD$$$$ 16833 Baywood Dr., Gral)gar, ln., 27J· Sporta Copy EdHor ...... George 1541. I've Invited the big guy to the LSU Big SSS for many PennSt tlx. Mario 

............................ Paul (W)

game. Yap, that's right, God's coming. 1173 YOU'RE CORDIALLY INVITED TO AT· 
................................John

Unfortunately I forgot to get him tick· TEND A PRESENTATION ON 
........................... Ringo (S)

eta and now I'm facing eternal damna­HELPI Need PENN STATE tlx. CAREERS AND COMMERCIALLOST: YELLOW CAT. LAST SEEN RIDE NEEDED TO CORNING, NY (OR tion or at IHat a lot of purgatory. Praf.atud.S$S.Thanx. Mary 277-8033 BANKING AND T.RUST AND FINAN­NEAR ST. JOSEPH'S HALL. REWARD. AREA·ELMIRA,WAVERL Y,BATH) FOR PIAae Hll me your LSU tlcketa. Call CIAL SERVICES SPONSORED BY THE 
CALL 277·2950, EXT. 2204 OR 272· T·BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. ''THE MEN OF N.D. DO NOT KNOW
2493 and save my aoul. DO YOU NEED MONEY? I NEED 2 NORTHERN TRUST BANK OF
3429. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL ANNE WHAT THEY ARE MISSING" bmm &
PENNST GA'S. CALL KATHRYN 284-CHICAGO ON THURSDAY, NOV. 13,
AT 1280 TILL 1:00AM. )ra 11Aiole NOW THE WORDS WILL
Need two Penn State Stud Tlx & 3 5428. FROM 7 TO II IN THE UPPER LOUNGE 
LOST: SIX KEYS ON A RING THAT LIVE FOREVER
GA'a. call Paul 277~177. OF THE UNIVERSITY CLUB.
SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED 80'.tlew Wava bend looking for BAS. 
REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED.

THEMIII LOST ON 1001. ANNETTE SIST. Dave 4105 IIIIITHAT'S ENTERTAIN· 
I need PSU tlx·atud or GA call mike
284-4372. MENTIIIIIFEATURING BRIAN HUS.. 
melle at 1111
CITY SOFTBAll TEAM NEEDS 3RD KEY ON GUITAR FREE ADMISSIONII
PERSONALS 
LOST: BLACK RAYBAN BASEMAKOUTFIELDER MENS TEAM PORTIA AMBERG IS 21 TODAYI ITS FREE REFRESHMENT!lll MONDAY "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES ON SUN. NIGHT LEAGUE 18 GAME Need Penn State nx. Will pay big ABOUT TIME, HUH? HAPPY NOV. 10TH IIPM·11PMIII CHAMELEON 1001. ANNETTE 284-4372. SEASON CALL COACH K 2875500 bucka. Call Joe alter 8p.m. 287-4581. THANK YOU ST. JUDE BIRTHDAY P.J.I ROOM HAGGAR.SMCIIIIIIIII 
The Observer Monday, November 10, 1986 -page 8 
Soccer season ends on losing note 
By PETE. GEGEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Though it was not the storybook ending the Irish soc­cer team was looking for, Notre Dame ended an impressive season yesterday with a 2-0 loss to Evansville. 
The Irish finished with a 13­7-2 record, while the eighth­ranked Purple Aces improved to 17-2-2 on their way to the NCAA tournament. 
Under windy conditions the Irish came out strong, chal­lenging Evansville end to end. But the Aces took control mid­way through the first half, scoring the first goal of the match. 
Evansville forward Dan

-
McHugh was credited with the goal at the 27:45 mark when Irish wingback Bill Gross headed the ball into his own net. Keeper Hugh Breslin had hesitated on the play, and was caught out of the net when Gross, who had been bumped by McHugh, tried to head it back to ·his keeper. The ball slowly rolled over the line. 
"You can't let an own-goal happen against a team of that caliber," said Irish head coach Dennis Grace, who contended that Gross was pushed on the play. "It's just something that happens, unfortunately." 
Breslin, who recorded seven saves on the afternoon, made two excellent stops in the first half on shots by the Aces' Dan O'Donnell and Brian Adcock to keep Notre Dame close. 
Notre Dame finally opened up, recording four shots on goal in the first half. Forward Bruce "Tiger" McCourt just missed connecting off a throw-in late in the first half. 
"I was happy that they came out and tried to play," said Aces head coach Fred Schmalz. "So many teams have tried to pack it in against us, and then play the quick counter. They came out and they played soccer the length of the field." 
Evansville put more pres­sure on Notre Dame when midfielder Mike Mikes headed in a corner from O'Donnell to give the Aces a 2-0 lead at the 
66:18 mark. 
The Irish then inserted three forwards in an attempt to push the ball up the field, but they could only manage a single shot on goal against the Aces. 
"I thought we played hard, thought we played well," said Grace. "You have to recognize that Evansville is beating everyone in the country. They've been number one for eight or nine weeks, and jus­tifiably so. 
"They pressured us at mid­field. They didn't give us the 
:--Anti-Violence Activist 
~nter for Teaching Non·VIolence & NCTV fufl.time staff. Lodging & S3251mo Research on aggreasion, publishing & lobbying against violence in TV, film, war toys, sportI, erotica, elc. Non-violent films. Next 10 U Illinois. Student loarll deferalole. 217·384-1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820 
PASS YOUR EXAMS Two outstanding books guide you through your studies and exams.' You must know these methods to successfully compete with other students for "A's" A Guide to Better Grades The Exam Secret $4.00 Each. $7.00 Both Moneyback guarantee 

Damark Publishers 1457 Stuckert Rd, CS1 Warrington, PA. 18976 

opportunity to do some of the things that we would like to do." 
The game finished what can honestly be called the best season of soccer at Notre Dame. But more than the up­sets and the superb play, the young Irish have developed into a unit which should be heard from in the future. 
"The thing that we did this year was come together," said Grace. "The willingness to work together is the number­one reason that got us to the level that we've been playing at the last eight games. 
"The year was a big success in a lot of ways. Every team we had more talent than, we beat. And we even beat some that had more talent than us. Previous years we had a ten­dency to beat ourselves." 
Despite all the accomplish­ments of the season, the team was upset that the year did not have the storybook ending. 
"I feel bad for all the g~ys 

10245 Ai1tline Hwy. phone: (504) 293-9680 (elohe to htadium)fi!tee eontinental 
LSU vh NOTRE VAME 
because they really deserved for it to end a little better,'' said senior co-captain Jim Flynn. "You get sick of coming close, and that's really the way we were this year -we came close a lot. 
"The guys themselves were the ones that pulled together, and they're the ones out here playing hard every day. We have such a good team you can't do anything wrong as a captain." 
IRISH ITEMS -Despite being held scoreless in his last four games, McCourt finished as the team's leading scorer with 16 goals and six assists for 38 points .. . Adding evidence to the saying, "Any team can win on any given day," Florida In­ternational, the team Notre Dame tied to win the Southern Bell tournament, pounded In­diana, 3-1, a team the Irish did not beat this year. Also, Evansville lost to Akron, a team the Irish tied earlier in the season. 
bJteakfiaht 

GEORGETOWN LAW CENTER 
A representative from 
Georgetown Law Center 
will be interviewing students at I Career Planning &Placement on Thursday, Nov.13, 11:00-3:00.f 

SIGN UP IN 101 O'SHAUGNESSY 

-

The Observer/Robert Jones 
The Notre Dame volleyball team extended its winning streak to nine by winning three matches over the weekend. Rick Rietbrock has the details on the red-hot squad's weekend sweep, beginning on the back page. 

It can be yours as an Air Force 
Pilot. It's not easy, but the re­
wards are great. You'll have all 
the Air Force advantages, such 
as 30 days of vacation with 
pay each year and complete 
medical care-and much more. 
If you're a college graduate or 
soon will be, AIM HIGH. Contact 
your Air Force recruiter for 
details about Officer Training School and pilot training Call TSgt Randy Rodgers at (317) 743-1924 collect. 
.;; ;=:, ..... 
L====---..._...-~
_._..-.... 
----...-..
~ 
~~~~~ 
.....---~E THOMAS J.---. 
HITE CENTER FORLAWAND GOVERNMENT --­Notre Dame Law School 
presents a lecture by 
Professor Kenneth Goodpaster Harvard Business School on 
'Can a Corporation Have a Conscience (and should It have one?)' 
Wednesday, Nov. 2 3:45p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
----~-----­


The Observer Monday, November 10, 1986-page 9 
t\~ SUNGLASS c 
@
1 q
University Park Mall 

\: RAY-BANS NOW25% OFF TO ALL CUSTOMERS WITH STUDENT 10 GET 25" OFF REG. PRICE OFANYSUNGLASSESINSTOCK 
NAMES LIKE: VUARNET, CARRERA, BOLLE and CHARLES JOURDAN 
THIS SPECIAL OFFER TO STUDENTS EXPIRES 11/23/86 
cordially invites Seniors to The Morris Inn on Monday, November 10, 1986 
at 7:00P.M.  
Meet  our  executives  and en;oy refreshments.  
Tell  us  about your  career  goals  
and hear about the  exciting  
Executive  Development Program  at  Lord & Taylor,  

America's leading fashion specialty store. Even if you have not previously thought of retailing as a career, you may want to know about the many interesting opportunities at Lord & Taylor. If you have proven abilities and a record of achievement, and look forward to the challenge of managing a profitable business, Lord & Taylor looks forward to meeting you. 
WITH SPECIAL GUEST STARS 
'The 
Gary Puckett HERMAN'S G~ 
&The Union Gap HERMITS .ax,--­
NOVEMBER 11, 7:30 P.M. NOTRE DAME ACC 
Reserved Tickets: $14.00 
ON SALE AT A.C.C. BOX OFFICE, 
SEARS (MISHAWAKA & ELKHART). ST. JOSEPH BANK (MAIN OFFICE) NIGHTWINDS (MISHAWAKA & NILES) ELKHART TRUTH SUPE~SOUNDS (ELKHART), J.R.'s MUSIC SHOP (LaPORTE) MUSIC MAJIC (BENTON HARBOR) 
CHARGE IY PHONE M.C./VISA 219-239-7.t60 

Best season ends for Saint Mary's 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team, 22-8, traveled to In­dianapolis for district play this past weekend. 
At IUPUI, the Belles were second-seeded in Northern In­diana, while ranked tied for first place in their league, and faced single-elimination play. Their hopes of reaching regionals, however, ended after a loss to Franklin College on Saturday. 
Friday night, Saint Mary's began the tournament with a victory over Marian College, with strong play on both offense and defense. It took the full five games to pull off the decision, 15-12, 15-11,8-15, 12-15 and 15-11. 
Leading the attack was senior Julie Schroeder with 26 
kills. Teammates Mary Reidy, The defense was doing an ex-
W'UNJOR CLASS
II' !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ said Lambert. 
Knicks vs. Bulls Irish 
in Chicago Nov.21 
signups:Mon, Nov.lO­s\6 Wed,Nov.12 
2-5 p.m. in Class Office 2nd floor LaFortune 
The 1987 Notre Dame COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Needs Your Help: 
-with advertising -with applications -with artwork -with production -in many other areas 
There will be a short organizational meeting at 
9:00 pm on Tuesday, November 11, in the New Orleans Room, LaFortune Student Center. For more info, or if you can't make the meeting, 
·please call Kevin Cronin at 283-2139. 
Where the need is . . . there we will be. 

As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 

HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
a senior, and freshman Tammy Suth added 18 and 17 kills, respectively. 
Schroeder also demonstrated powerful defense while leading the team with a total of 16 block assists during the match. 
"The team was able to adjust well to the difficult play of Marian," said Coach Mary Jo Lambert. "The girls pulled to­gether and kept any Marian rallies from amounting to anything dangerous." 
In the last five years, Saint Mary's had never advanced further than the first round of play at districts. This jinx ended Friday night and the team looked forward to facing its next opponent, Franklin Col­lege, on Saturday. 
During the season, the Belles lost to Franklin on two separate occasions. 
continuedfrom page 12 
side and raced over the goal line to extend Notre Dame's lead to 10 points. 
"The game plan worked great," said Beuerlein, who completed 11-of-20 in the pass­ing department. "It all starts with the offensive line and our ability to set up the running game. SMU has some talented defensive linemen in Jerry Ball and (Terence) Mann, but we controlled up there and, once we established the running game, we could keep them off­balance with the pass. 
"When I get protection like I got today it makes by job a whole lot easier. That's what happened today, and with Tim (Brown) and Milt (Jackson, two catches, 47 yards), if you get it in their hands, things are going to happen." 
While Beuerlein, Brown and the Notre Dame defense were toying with plays they called "almost perfect," placekicker John Carney put in a perfect day at the office -hitting field goals of 22, 30, 38 and 40 yards to tie the Notre Dame record of four field goals in a game. 
The Irish forced a pair of fumbles in the game while not turning the ball over. Watters was also intercepted twice, once by Troy Wilson and an­other time by freshman 
, linebacker Mike Stonebreaker, who totaled 10 tackles after senior captain Mike Kovaleski was sidelined early with a con­cussion. Kovaleski will play against Penn State on Saturday, Holtz said. 
EXTRA POINTS -Second­string quarterback Terry Andrysiak entered Saturday's game in the fourth quarter and led the second team into the endzone. The junior completed the only pass he attempted (24 yards) and finished the drive with a 20-yard touchdown scamper on his own ... Besides Brown, Johnson and Andrysiak, other members of the Notre Dame "I Scored a Touchdown" Club Saturday in­cluded Alonzo Jefferson (two­yard run), Pernell Taylor (seven-yard carry) and sopho­more Aaron Robb (one-yard run) cellent job in the first two games. The offense, however, was not able to penetrate, and the scores were 15-11 and 15-12 for Franklin. The play contin­ued in Franklin's favor as the Belles dropped a 15-9 decision in game three. 
Reidy contributed 15 kills and seven solo blocks in her final collegiate game. Mary McCarthy kept the Belles alive for a while with 12 defensive digs. 
''The team was not un­beatable if we could have pulled it together,'' said Reidy. "Our talent was there, we just did not play up to our potential. The loss was a hard one." 
Lambert felt this year's team had a lot of talent in compari­son to those in years past. 
"If we faced competitive teams like this more often in the season, then our level of 
play would be just as tough," 

The Observer Monday, November 10, 1986-page 10 
Royal connects for game-high 14 to pace Gold in 10-point triumph 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Rivers says he has field goal percentage on 12-of-Sports Editor progressed beyond the point of 37 shooting (6-of-12 from the jogging in a pool to build up line), while the Gold shot 17-of-
The Notre Dame men's bas­strength, and also says he 33 for a .515 percentage (6-of-6 ketball team played its annual doesn't have to ride the exer­from the line). Blue-Gold intrasquad game cise bike as much. Still, prac­Both squads committed six last night, with the Gold squad, tice has been limited to sprint­turnovers in the 20 minute paced by Donald Royal's 14 ing and shooting, "basically game. points, coming out on top, 40-30. getting in shape." Scott Hicks (four points, four 
Freshman Scott Paddock rebounds), Mark Stevenson scored 11 for the Blue. (six, three), Gary Voce (eight, 
Junior guard David Rivers, three), Sean Connor (eight, injured in an auto accident at two) and Royal made up the the beginning of the school Gold Squad. Freshmen Jamere year, participated in a full­Jackson (four, two), Tony Jack­court drill for 10 minutes before son (three, eight) and Paddock the game but did not play in made up the Blue squad along the game itself. with Steve Nicgorski (one 
"It felt great out there," said rebound) and Chris Nanni (two Rivers. "It's the time I get to points). have a lot of fun. Hicks and Stevenson each 
"Things are going welL handed out three assists for the They're holding me back, but .. Gold, and Voce had two blocked its for my own benefit. I shots. definitely will be out there IRISH ITEMS -The men's when Western Kentucky gets As for the game, the Irish and women's intrasquad here (Notre Dame's first op­showed evidence of both being games' attendance was 2,092, ponent in the Coca-Cola NIT on a quick team and a team that and the two exhibitions raised Nov. 21) provided I do the has only been practicing for a total of $2,948 to be split by things I need to to get myself little more than three weeks. Logan Center and the Neigh­ready to play." The Blue managed only a .324 borhood Study Help Program. 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI Trena every game, with Bot­dard for steals with 72. Sports Writer ham and Bunek filling in with The game plan right now is big games. incomplete because of a 
The Notre Dame women's "This year Mary (Gavin) season-ending injury to Notre basketball team showcased must score and provide assists Dame's primary perimeter this season's young team in the and Botham and Bunek must shooting threat, Lisa Kuhns. Blue-Gold game at the ACC last have good nights consistently. Sophmore guard Diondra night. This edition of the Irish A lot will depend on how the Toney, who will team up with is not only different from last new people come along and Gavin in the backcourt, is af­year, but will play a much how the older players take ad­flicted with an undiagnosed ill­more challenging schedule. vantage of opportunities. ness to add to the problems 
The Blue team defeated the "I was very pleased with facing DiStanislao, whose Gold team, 42-30, as junior cen­Morrison's play tonight," she record was 23-8 last year. ter Sandy Botham scored a continued. "She has matured game high 18 points and junior over the years and now under­Notre Dame will need a fast center Beth Morrison grabbed stands the game and her rol~." start this season to stay on top seven rebounds. of a highly-competitive 
Sophmore center Heidi Bunek, Botham and lone schedule, since the Irish open Bunek netted 10 points for the senior forward Lavetta Willis at home against fourth-ranked Gold team while freshman for­will combine to make an im­Rutgers. They will then face ward Molly Mahoney scored posing and experienced front number-one Texas in the Texas six points in a solid inside per­baseline while Morrison should Classic. Other top teams in­formance. play and expanded role as sixth clude Indiana, Ohio State, 
The largest task for Notre man. The key to their success Washington, Oklahoma, Dame this year will replacing will be to stay healthy and out Maryland, St. Joseph's and Trena Keys, the most prolific of foul trouble. Tennessee. player in Irish history. Junior guard Gavin is just To advance to the NCAA 
"We will be a different kind five assists shy of the Irish as­Tourament for the first time of team," said Notre Dame sist record of 326, despite this season Notre Dame will head coach Mary DiStanislao. playing only two seasons. An have to beat one of these top­"Last year we expected a excellent floor leader, she es­ranked teams and play all the steady stream of points from tablished a new school stan-others very competitively. 
ly," said Brown. "We've got a Mustangs by grinding it out on lot more confidence now, and the ground, in addition to com­
Offense 
pleting the long pass.
Coach Holtz is a big reason.
continuedfrom page 12 
Things are starting to go our youngerplayers,especianythe FAMILY HAIRCARE SAVINGS•.
running backs, have gotten a
favorite target was flanker way." 
Tim Brown, who caught four ''Brown just killed us today,'' couple of games under their r------·COUPON SAVINGS·------. said Bobby Collins. "I think it
passes for 176 yards. Beuer­belts and they're picking up 
I $2QFF ADULT CUT I

some confidence,'' said Brown. 1 I
lein's 84-yard pass to Brown would be great if he were on 
tied for the third-longest pass our side. He's a great football "That makes a big difference. I MasterCuts I player who's very talented. We Everybody's playing great. I Reg. $8 I
play in Notre Dame history, 
and was one of many big plays knew that they would go to him 
which the Irish offense came and we couldn't do anything 
~~:~~~~yr.,~·~~~~~~~·~~! ts---o-FFAoui =rCWr-1 
up with to continually stifle the about it." 
comeback hopes of the Mus­But the Notre Dame offense "Today, we played some I 1 tangs. showed more than just the flash good, hard-nosed football with R $8 MasterCuts
2

of Brown on Saturday, with a some big plays thrown in," said I eg · famly haircuttErs I"There's not a lot to say," 
said SMU head coach Bobby plethora of rumiing backs Notre Dame head coach Lou r-------------------1 Collins. "They played a great Holtz. "I think our offensive 1$2QFF KIDS CUT 1
gaining postive yardage behind game. It seems every time we a much-improved offensive line is getting better all the I 1 time. But we've got a long, up-1ovearsoldorunder MasterCuts
made a run at them they came line. Notre Dame had 16 players rush a total of 70 times hill road ahead. It sure doesn't I Reg. $6, Now $4 farnikJ hiWcuttas I I back with the big play." 
Brown accounted for 235 all­for 322 yards, losing yardage get any easier.'' .._-------------·-----...,I purpose yards, marking the (a total of five yards) on only But with strong offensive ex-M st Cuts 
two of these rushes. ecution like they had against a Erthird consecutive game in
l which he has gone over the 200-Anthony Johnson (47 yards) SMU, the upcoming games family haircutters 
could be a lot more fun for the 
yard mark. and Hiawatha Francisco (38 "I think we're just playing yards) led the way, as the Irish Irish than anyone would have University Park Mall 2n-3no
I more consistently offensive-were able to drive against the believed earlier in the season.
I 

Donald Royal 



I I 
-=---~_--_----=--=--=--=---~-=----=------~~ 
']I['4(Jt~4tll~-------------------------------------------------------M·o-nd•a•y•,N•o•v•e•m•b•er•1•0•,1•9•86_-_p_a.ge--11
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 
1if6 BlJXJM PICIIYI/Nt's COMIC 
STl?.IMF< IS II r/1/l T/1/WY' WililY.. 



Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
YOU C.£r Tilt  
PotfliT.  

 I  

 -"1!  
 
 

Campus 
8:00a.m. -11:30 p.m.: Exhibit: The Peace Ribbon, display at CSC from the Chicago Peace Museum . 
12:15 p.m.: 15-minute prayer service for "A Call to Peacemaking Week," CSC chapel 
3:30 p.m.: Theology Colloquium, "Wor­ship, Symbol, and the Hidden Language," by Prof. Donald Saliers, Emory Univer­sity, Library Lounge 
4:00p.m.: Architecture Lecture, "The In­vention of Authenticity: Architecture and History in the Post-Modern Age," by An~ thony Vidler, Princeton University, 202 Architecture Building 
4:00p.m.: Theology Dept. Abrams Chair in Jewish Studies Distinguished Lecturer Series, "Authority and Rebellion: The In­dividual and Modern Literature," by Dr. Chaim Potok, author oQf The Chosen, My Name is Asher Lev, and The Book of Lights, CCE Auditorium 
4:30p.m.: Lecture, "The Immunoglobulin Gene Superfamily" 283 Galvin Life Sci­ence Auditorium 
4:30p.m.: ND Finance Club Financial In­stitution Series Lecture by Thomas H. O'Brien, President and CEO of PNC Fin­ancial Corporation. Topic: Deregulation of Banking and Its Impact on the Industry, Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
4:30 -6:00 p.m.: Sociology lecture, "Changing Family Policies in Europe," by Prof. Wilfried Dumon, Katholieke Uni­versiteit Leuven, Belgium, 131 Decio 
6:00 -7:45p.m.: Meeting, Sociology Club, meet the faculty, Library Lounge 
6:30  p.m.:  Meeting, Amnesty  Interna­ 
tional, esc  
7:00 p.m.:  Monday Night Film Series,  

"The American Friend," 1977, color, 127 minutes, Wim Wender, West Germany, Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: Institute for International Peace Studies Kistiakowsky Lecture, "The Way Out: A General Nuclear Settle­ment," by Admiral Noel Gayler, U.S.N. (Ret.) Open to the public. Engineering Auditorium, Fitzpatrick Hall 
8:00 
-9:30p.m.: Economics Dept. Labor Workshop, "The Effects of Race and Sex on Union Organizing," by Ruth Need­lemen, Indiana University Northwest. Hayes-Healy Auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.: Theology lecture, "Karl Barth and the Prayer of the Church," by Prof. Donald Saliers, Library Auditorium 


9:00p.m.: Monday Night Film Series II, "Phantom of the Paradise," 1974, color, 92 minutes, Brian De Palma, USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Top Round of Beef Pork Stir Fry with Julienne Vegetables Seafood Newburg on a Patty Shell Devonshire Sandwiches 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Ham 
Spinach Lasagna 
Chimichangas 
Deli Bar 
"Hold it! There's a car across the street ­you sure you weren't followed, Mary?" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Test 5 Written 
symbol 
9 Flower part 14 Lima's land 15 Lily plant 16-a customer 17 Dies­18 Weaver's reed 19 Colt and filly 20 Signify a 
meaning 22 Mates 24 Sugary 26 Assn. 27 Dairy spread 30 Nicknames 35 Indian tribe 36 Shatter 37 Painting or 
sculpture 38 Prevaricator 39 Type of sugar 
40 Response to an explanation 41 Smith and Jolson 42 Temples old 
style 43 100 yrs. 44 Milieus 46 Fish 48 Can. prov. 
49 Restorative 51 Milky 55 Milk products 
stores 59 Twinges 60 Stravinsky 62 Advantage 63 Dams up 64 Front 65 Winglike 66 Part of a ship 67 Russ. news 
agency 68 Ancient Persian 
DOWN 1 "Aeneid" for 
one 2 Dry: pref. 3 Galway Bay 
isle 4 Type of cheese 

©1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
11/10/86
All Rights Reserved 
5 Expert 6 Formal walk 7 Fish eggs 8 Vital clues 9 And -(etc.) 
10 Ample 11 Vegetable dish 12 Salt tree 13 Deprivation 21 Be in debt 23 Composure 25 Violent 
commotion 27 Gauchos' 
weapbns 28 Practical 29 Breakfast food 31 Buddies· 32 Art stand 33 Eng. river 34 Lets stand 36 Caroled 39 Horse blanket 40 Dessert 42 Delicate skill 45 Clan symbols 46 Traps 




• 

' 
Monday, November 10, 1986-page 12

SRorts 
Irish overpower Mustangs for third straight win 
Easy Notre Dame victory evens season record at 4-4 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
Southern Methodist -came into Saturday's game at Notre Dame Stadium on probation for NCAA recruiting violations, but it was the Fighting Irish who took charge of handing out the punishment. 
Looking sharp in every phase of the game, Notre Dame made a 61-29 thrashing of the Mus­tangs appear easy, and ex­tended its winning streak to three games while hitting the .500 mark for the first time this season at 4-4. 
"We beat a good football team today, and we did it in a good, sound way," said Irish coach Lou Holtz, whose team rolled for 615 yards of total of­fense, the most by a Notre Dame team in the 1980's. "I couldn't believe when I looked up and saw how many points were on the board. 
"SMU looked as good on film as they did when they won the (Southwest Conference) cham­pionship (in 1982) and finished second in the country with Eric Dickerson, (Craig) James and (Lance) Mcilhenny." 
Unfortunately for the Ponies, none of those names were around on Saturday. A_nd while the struggling SMU squad dropped its third game in a row after an appearance in the na­tional rankings early in the season, the big names coming out of its latest loss were those of Steve Beuerlein and Tim Brown. 
Beuerlein had his best career passing game in a Notre Dame uniform, hooking up for 269 yards in the air, while Brown accounted for 235 all-purpose yards, including 176 yards on four receptions to go along with a pair of touchdowns. 
"It was a lot of fun out there today," said Brown, who 
Inside . .. 
Intr~squad basketball games give fans a pre-season glance at teams, page 10 
Saint Mary's volleyball team concludes best season ever at districts, page 9 
ND soccer ends year with 2-0 loss to highly-ranked Evansville, pageS 
Contemplation begins over bowl picture in college football, page7 
thoroughly enjoyed juking his defenders out of their socks vir­tually every time he touched the ball, once by breaking free from the coverage of Derrick Reed for an 84-yard scoring reception in the third quarter. "I'm starting to settle down and play like I know how to play." 
Two first-half touchdown runs by SMU's Jeff Atkins gave the Mustangs a 14-10 lead early, but a crucial 13 seconds in the second quarter, sparked by a big defensive play by defensive tackle Robert Banks, turned the game around for good. 
Anthony Johnson capped a 65­yard drive on a one-yard run with 8:46 on the clock, putting the Irish on top, 17-14. Then, after John Carney put the en­suing kickoff into the endzone for a touchback, the Notre Dame defense -came up with perhaps its biggest play of the game. 
Tight coverage in the second­ary forced Mustang quarter­back Bobby Watters to scramble around in the back­field, giving Banks enough time to shake his defender, send Watters to the ground and jar the football loose. Outside linebacker Cedric Figaro pounced on it at the SMU 15­yard line, recovering his seventh fumble in eight games and extending his Notre Dame record for fumble recoveries in a season. 
"It was close to a perfect play," Figaro said. "Everybody did what he was supposed to do." 
The next play was not far from perfect, either. In what is becoming more and more typi­cal in the Irish offense, Brown took a hand-off out of the wish­bone formation, followed a block from Johnson on the left 
see IRISH, page 9 
The Observer /Mike Ury 

Junior flanker Tim Brown breaks free on one on Notre Dame's 61-29 rout at left, while Eric of his four receptions against Southern Meth­Scheuermann features the devastating offense odist on Saturday. Marty Strasen has the story below. 
ND offense has record-setting day 
By ERIC SCHEUERMANN Sports Writer 
It was no ordinary afternoon for the Notre Dame offense. Sixty-one points and 615 total yards against SMU was definitely something special, as the Irish played what most would feel to be their best of­fense in many years. 
And, although the SMU defense is not one of the na­tion's best, this blowout was nothing to sneeze at. SMU had held teams such as Baylor and Houston in check, while barely falling to Texas and Texas of t.he Notre Dame offense ex­ploding. 
"SMU has great talent on defense," said Irish quarter­back Steve Beuerlein. "But the offensive line opened up holes to run and gave me great protection to pass. We just did what we wanted to do -almost every play went for positive yardage. It's a lot more fun when we're able to win and do what we did today." 
The 61 points scored by the Irish marked the most points scored in a single game by Notre Dame since a 69-14 win over Georgia Tech in 1977. More shockingly, 61 points are the most the Mustangs have al-
Volleyball takes three, extends winning streak 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Records and opponents con­.tinue to tumble, and the list of casualties the Notre Dame vol­leyball team is leaving behind grows more impressive every day. 
This weekend, three more were added to the list. 
Victories over Dayton, Northwestern and Pittsburgh give the Irish a 25-6 record, in­cluding a school-record nine wins in a row. The 25 victories tie a school record set in 1982, and make Head Coach Art Lambert a very happy man. 
"I'm really pleased with the girls," he said. "I don't think we played all that well, but we scrapped and really . hung in there." 
The biggest weekend in 
Notre Dame history, according 
to Lambert, began with a three­game drubbing of North Star Conference foe Dayton by the scores of 15-8, 15-10, 15-2. Notre . Dame finishes with a 4-0 con­
ference mark. 
Mary Kay Waller and Kathy 
Cunningham took the night off, 
but the Irish suffered little. 
Sophomore Whitney Shewman 
led the Irish with 12 kills and 
middle blocker Maureen Shea, 
who would shine all weekend, 
added nine kills. 
Saturday night, Northwes­
tern provided the opposition 
and the standing-room-only 
crowd turned the auxiliary 
gym into a snake pit. The 
Wildcats have qualified for the 
NCAA tournament five out of 
the last six years, but they 
could not spoil Notre Dame's 
party. 
see VOLLEYBALL, page 7 
lowed since 1916, when they fell to Baylor, 61-0. 
The 615 yards in total offense gained by the Irish was the best total for a Notre Dame squad during the 1980's. 
The Irish showed great bal­ance, gaining 322 yards on the ground and 293 through the air, for an average of 6.8 yards per play. And Notr.e Dame did not turn the ball over once, a statis­tic that best points out just how well the Irish executed. 
Beuerlein led the offensive charge, completing 11 of 20 passes for 269 yards, while throwing no interceptions. His 
see OFFENSE, page 10





