Keenan Revue -page 9 



Th~ Obscrvrr/Hannes Hackn 
Errant arrow 
The North Quad receir•ed a preliminary shot of Keenan Ret•ue humor after residents of Keenan Hall added a comedic arrow to the outside of the 


Challenger search discovers remains 
Associated Pre!18 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. · Pat­hologists are examining human remains recovered from the Atlantic to see if they are those of the Chal­lenger's astronauts, sources said yes­terday. 
NASA said yesterday that it has recovered no shuttle debris so far from the ocean bottom despite six days of searching with sonar and robot submarines. Two promising "targets," the space agency said, turned out to be the old wreckage of a helicopter and a light airplane. 
That left I 7 other potential targets about I 5 miles offshore where photographs and radar indiCated that large objects hit the water, NASA said. 
But with the sea yielding less debris each day, officials weighed cutting back on the search of the ocean surface. The Navy was pulling its ships out at the end ofthe day yes­terday, leaving the sea sweep to the Coast Guard, which also was review­ing whether to continue. 
The sources, who spoke on condi­tion they not be identified, would not disclose how many remains had been found or what they were but said they had been taken to a hospi­tal at nearby Patrick Air Force Base to be preserved and studied. 
"As we move away from this ter­rible day, we must devote our energies to finding out how it hap­pened and how it can be prevented from happening again," President Reagan said yesterday in naming a commission to investigate the cause . of the catastrophe independently of NASA. He said it would be headed by former Secretary of State William Rogers and former astronaut Neil Armstrong. 
At the White House ceremony in­troducing the new board, NASA ac­ting director William Graham refused to comment directly on the report. 
"On the issue of human remains, 

. all I can tell you at this point is that we are sensitive to the issue of per­sonal effects and to the remains of the astronauts," he said. "We have plans in place to treat them with great dignity and great privacy, ap­propriate to the respect that we have for them.'' 
No automatic penalties imposed on parietals violators 
Editor's note: This is the second in suspension is warranted and the Review Process Explained Review Board) is effective though, sion or the penalty, he or she then a three-day series examining feeling of the office of residence because the decision can always be has five days from the date of ver­parletals at Notre Dame andSaint life is that suspension isn't war­In the review board process, the referred back to the administration bal notification from the Office for Mary's. Today's stories will look ranted, they're not going to student may appeal the ruling of for final ruling. In my view, this is Student Affairs in which to submit at the tu•o schools' current suspend," he added. the Office of Residence Ufe to the one of the major detriments," In­a written appeal to the office. policies and judicial processes. Tyson said he thinks there has judicial review board, a panel of gwersen said. After the appeal is received at Tomorrow's stories will look been some confusion because du faculty and administrative mem­Student Affairs, the involved stu­toward the future of the parietals Lac states "Overnight parietais bers, which hears evidence and Reporting Procedures Varies dent and the administration begin policy. violations involve suspension or makes a decision on the case. This the process ofchoosing the review 
dismissal." According to several rectors, the board panel for the hearing. By MARY HEILMANN "I couldn't understana what 
procedure for reporting minor Du Lac says the Judicial Review Assistant News Edttor some of the difficulty was, and it parietals violations out ofthe dorm board "shall be composed of five 
was in a conversation with (Hall to Student Affairs varies from hall people selected for each case from 
Parietals: 
Contrary to student perception Presidents' Council Chairman) to hall. They declined, however, to a panel of twelve faculty and ad­and what the wording of du Lac Kevin Howard where I said, 'Do speak further on the issue, or to be ministrative personnel. For each may suggest, Notre Dame imposes you think that just because the A closer identified. case, the student shall select one no automatic penalty on parietais book says that?', and he said, 'Well, Once a parietals violation has member, the Associate V.P. one violators, according to the Office yeah,' and I said, 'Well Kevin, why been reported to the Office of member, and the remaining three ofStudent Affairs. did they have the hearing? We decision can then in turn be ap­Residence Life, Associate Vice shall be chosen at random In the 
"I think... any time there's a dis­could just have security take a let­pealed to Father Theodore Hes­President for Residence Life John presence of the student or an un­ciplinary case, regardless of whet­ter saying the book says you did it, burgh, University president, by Goldrick or Ann Firth, director of dergraduate student counsel and her it's parietals or some other go away.'" either the student or the Office of residence life, examines the in the presence of the Associate issue, the circumstances of the But according to Judicial Coun­Residence Ufe. evidence presented. On the basis V.P." case are always considered, cil Coordinator Karen Ingwersen, "Decisions by the President are of this, Goldrick or Firth makes a The ratio of the randomly regardless of what du Lac says," ! the hearing process is flawed be­final," du Lac states. decision on whether or not the stu­chosen members must be 3:2, eit­said Father David Tyson, vice cause the decision reached in the "The people on the review dent is guilty ofthe violation and, if her faculty to administration or ad­president for student affairs. Judicial Review Board process may board are very competent and I so, what penalty will be imposed. ministration to faculty, it adds. 
"It would be ridiculous not to be appealed to the University think they are very responsible. I As stated in du Lac, if a student look Into a situation. If du Lac says President for a final ruling. don't know that I can say it (the wishes to appeal either this deci-see du LAC, page 5 


Saint Mary's infractions judged on an individual basis 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
"Parietais at Saint Mary's have nothing to do with sexual activity, and what students do in their own rooms is their own business," said former Dean of Students Sister Karol Jackowski. 
"We view the seriousness of a violation in terms ofits negative ef­fect on the Saint Mary's com­munity, and that includes drugs, theft and alcohol. All of these we have to treat by the Indiana state laws," said Jackowski. 

Because Saint Mary's does not have a written sexuality code, sanctions given to parietals violators depend on the particular circumstances of the case, said Pat Rissmeyer, director of residence life and housing. 
The Saint Mary's judicial system takes into account all facts of the Incident when making a decision regarding a parietals violation, ac­cording to Margaret Caven, Regina Hall residence director. 
Those involved with a particular case are also bound to confiden­tiality, which they consider to be a strong point in their judicial process, said Caven. 
One Case Explained 

In a recent parietais violation charged against a Regina Hall resi­dent, the student was caught by both her roommate and resident advisor, and as a result was written up for the violation. 
The student, who requested anonymity, explained the events in the judicial process. 
A formal report was filed by the 

resident advisor which explained the incident. The report was then . given to the hall director, who, as the next person in charge, would 
handle the matter. 
Following this, the student was 
given a hearing with only the hall 
director, herself and her resident 
advisor present. 
The student was read the inci­
dent report and then given a 
choice: she could consider that 
meeting to be the final hearing, she 
could appear in front of the Judi­
cial Board or appear at another 
hearing consisting of a hall direc­tor, a member of the administra­tion and a student. 
The student chose the hall director, who found her guilty. The student was placed on discipli­nary probation and was given eight hours ofduty at the parietals desk. 
The student said she was treated fairly by everyone involved in the incident, but expressed surprise at the sanction she was given. 
"I thought for sure they'd tell me to be out within 48 hours. I couldn't believe they were ac-
see P ARIETALS, page 5 

same time. Not very many  that never works?  
people escape the frustra­ Unlike the Maytag repair­ 
tion of finding at least one  man who claimed to be the  
copy machine out of order.  loneliest repairman in the  
Actually, true frustration is  world, the copy machine  
going from copy machine to  mechanic seems to be the  
copy machine, only to find  most popular (since we  
four orfive ofthem outofor­ have not seen the Maytag  
der.  man around recently he may  
have switched professions. )  
The ordeal happens so of­ No sooner does the repair­ 
ten that most people do not  man leave and the copier is  
experience a reaction when  broken again.  
they see the little red lights  
flashing on the copy  Photocopies can be ob­ 
machine, indicating that yet  tained from five cents to 25  
something else is wrong.  cents, but you do not get  
"Out oforder" signs seem to have become permanent ad­ ,.~'6'~*T  what you pay for. Twenty­five cent machines work no  
ditions to some ofthe equip- better than the others, but  
ment.  they do give you five times  
Copy machines do not  the frustration.  

-r-~__,.-~~-~--..--··--~~----·----~ --------~------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 2 


In Brief 
Design contest winners were announced last week for Saint Mary's 1986-87 Cultural Events Calendar. Any sculpture, painting, design or sketch representing the College and the performing arts was eligible. Haley Osterbeck won the first prize of $100; Ellen Morrison won second prize of $50; and the third prize of $25 was won by Lisa Hagen. Judges for the contest were Sandy Bate ofImprint, Inc., and Ed Martin ofBoger Martin Fairchild and Co. 
•Tbe Observer 

Summer jobs at Cape Cod and the otrshhore islands ofNantucket and Martha's Vineyard are available to students and teachers again this year. For generations businesses in these resort areas have been hiring college students from all over the country, including the midwestern and western states. For informa­tion, send a long self-stamped envelope to Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 12, Barnstable, MA 02630. · The Observer 
Of Interest 
The "Spiritual Roots" sessions at Saint Mary's con­tinue tomorrow with a book review at 12:15 in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge. Paula McLean, director of public relations at the College, will discuss Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's book, "On Children and Death," which deals with issues surrounding dying children and their families. McLean holds an M.A. in counselingfrom Notre Dame, and is bereavement coordinator for the Hospice of St. Joseph County. -Tbe Observer 
Former death row prisoner Delbert Tibbs will speak at an informational meeting tonight on opposition to the death penalty. The slide show "People are not for the Killing" will accom­pany the meeting at 7:30. ·The Observer 
The struggle with Campbell's soup will be the topic of a discussion tonight at 7:30 in the library of the Center for Social Concerns. The Notre Dame community has sup­ported midwestern farmers throughout the seven-year boycott and continued support will be the topic of this discussion sponsored by the Notre Dame Farm Labor Organizing Committee.. The Observer 
"Words, Words, Words" will be a new program aired on WSND-FM to be broadcast for the first time today at 2 p.m. The show will be hosted by Dr. Paul Roche, its creator and the poet· in-residence at Notre Dame. The program will be a presentation of poetry and prose and is sponsored by the Program ofliberal Studies. All subsequent programs will be aired on· Tuesdays and Fridays at 2 
p.m. · The Observer 

The artist-in-residence until Feb. 15 at Saint Mary's will be Peter Mitten, a California sculptor. Mitten will give a public lecture on "Questioning the Significance ofForm," tonight at 7 in room 232 Moreau Hall. An open reception will honor Mitten Fridayfrom 4 to 6 p.m. in the SculptureStudioofMoreau Hall. Mitten currently runs his own private studio and acts as consultant and foundry service for San Diego artists. During his residency, he will be working with Saint Mary's sculpture students..Tbe Observer 
Shelter for the Homeless will be conducting sign-ups for trained volunteers tommorow from 6 to 6:30p.m. in the little Theatre LaFortune. Preference will be given to groups of 4, 2 males and 2 females. For more information call John at 1515. · Tbe Observer 

Weather 
You're out of luck if you don't like rain. There is a 100 percent chance of rain today with highs near 50 and a 70 percent chance of rain with the lows in the upper 30s tonight. Tomorrow is not much brighter, with a 50 percent chance of rain and highs in the mid 40s.-AP 



Design Editor ......................... Chris Bowler Features Copy Editor .......... Eric Bergamo Design Assistant ............... Mdissa Warnke Features Layout ................ Sharon Emmite Typesetters...................... Suzanne Hammer ND Day Editor ...................... Ray Szafranski 
Bill Hlghducheck SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor .............................Scott Bearby Copy Editor ..............................Alex Peltzer Ad Design.................... Catherine Ramsden Sports Copy Editor ................. Marty Bums Allison Fahrenhoft 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Maura Mandyck Photographer ..................... Paul Pahoresky Viewpoint Layout...........Melinda Murphy Typist.......................................... Colleen Foy 
The Obeerver (liSPS 599 l--tOOO) is published Monday through Friday except during rxam and vacation Jl<'fiods TheObtierver is published by the students ohhe l 'niversily of Notre Oame and Saini Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for HO per year ( llO Jl<'r semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Oame. Indiana 
-tM~6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are 
r~St""V~d. 


Wonder of copy machine dampened by breakdowns 
Copy machines are wonderful inventions. With a flick of a switch here and the turn of a knob there, un­told miracles appear before your very eyes. 
The added features of copy machines are truly in­credible; just about anything can be reproduced in a variety of forms and can even be whisked across the country in a matter ofminutes. 
The self-serve copy machines at Notre Dame, however, do not have the latest in space-age features. Perhaps one day they will, but for now the typical stu­dent has a simple wish: "please, when I want to make a copy ofsomething, let me find a machine that works." 
This is the age ofefficiency, the "I want to get it done now" approach to life. There is no longer a need to trek to the library simply to make a photocopy, for there are over 25 self-serve machines strategically placed in dorms and dining halls. 
Quantity does not bring quality, however, as the majority of them seem not to be in operation at the 

stop working because ofextreme abuse. They just stop with no warning, leaving the most innocent of victims with a blank expression on his face and a blank sheet of paper in his hand. 
What does the average person do when a breakage occurs? More than likely, he looks around to see if anyone was a witness. Ifnot, he probably will walk away casually· frustrated, but not wanting to get involved. 
Walking away, though, turns the once innocent vic­tim into a copy machine accomplice. Although in some cases the copier provides its own warning, in most cases it doesn't. After all, the machine is broken. 
By walking away without leaving some evidence that the machine is not in operation, they are simply setting up the next victim. Even ifthe copier is not working, the coin slot will always take money. Of course, the machine will not offer you a refund since this seems to be a prerequisite for all coin-operated machinery. 
How much money have you lost in the machines? 

Wish your friends a Happy Birthday through Observer advertising. Call 239·5303 for details. 
Attention all .Juniors  
Junior Parents Weekend table reservations for President,s Dinner Tuesday, February 4 7-9 p.m. TONIGHT IS THE LAST NIGHT!!! COME TO: Buement ofIAFOR11JNE BRING: Mal•••of6 8tadent J.D.'• to reaerve two tabl..(9-10 people pee.table) to facUitilte •eatingwith frlenda. lnfonnatlon for each LD.: -nu•b•ofpeople In each party -Ho•e zip code Table reservations are mandatory I(JIOU plan on attending the dinner, even Ifyou have not yet registered for the weekend! Pleaae Note: Table number assignment will be random and not dependent on the time you come to register.  




Scoff Bearby 
Assistant News Editor 

What obscenities have you uttered after discovering an inoperative copier.? 
The no refund policy helps the machine profiteer make money whether the photocopier is in operation or not. It would be possible to complain, even rebel, if it was known who took care ofthe machines. 
Although leaving a name and phone number of the "copy machine commissioner" near the equipment would be ideal, one really cannot blame them if they don't. Why should they be responsible for something 
The world is at the mercy of the copy machine. Wit­hout them, bureaucracy and civilization as we know it would come to a grinding halt. We can fight the situa­tion, however. 
A boycott of copy machines could be started, but eventually Y'JU would need to photocopy the protest flyers. 
If you need some extra cash, install your own copy machines and take advantage ofall the people who put money into machines that do not work. If job inter­views are not going well, why not check into a career as a copy repairman? There should be a lot ofmoney .to be made. 
In the meantime though, the best alternative is to wait until you see someone else use the machine first. There is no sense in you losing money. 

The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 3 

Senate looking to eliminate ND housing contract fines 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
AssistantNews Edttor 
The Student Senate is looking into the possibility ofeliminating the fine imposed on students breaking their housing contract after concerns were raised at last night's senate meeting. 
Senator Chris Abood will discuss with Student Residences Director Evelyn Reinebold the possibilty that the fines be dropped because of problems students had as a result of yesterday's deadline for returning the contracts. 
Students who returned their con­tracts for on-campus housing next year but decide later to live off­campus face at least Sl SO in fines, according to the housing contract. 
"Apparently the fine is imposed because if you break your contract they've got to try to fill that room," said Mike Jaeger, campus improve­ments cabinet member. 
"l think we all know there are people off-campus and there are transfers every year begging to get a place on campus," said Jaeger. "They don't have a problem anymore offil­ling space on campus." 
Jaeger became aware of the problem after several students com­plained ofbeing forced to return the contracts before they knew whether they actually wanted to live on­campus next year, he said. 
"A few weeks back into the school year is a difficult time to be asking the people to make such a significant decision to students," said Jaeger, who added that the problem was especially acute for sophomores. 
Students also complained that apartment complexes can't give guarantees of housing being available next year until several months after the students' contracts are due, said Jaeger. 
"They (apartment complexes ) may be able to tell us by the end of the year, but a sophomore cannot make that commitment to move off campus unless he knows where he's going to live," he said. 
Senior Class Vice President Pam Fox experienced the problem first­hand, she said. 
"I was forced into that spot last year," Fox said. "We didn't get a guarantee until halfway through the 

summer with our apartment com­plex," she said. 
"There's no way around it. You can't go off-campus unless you have a guarantee," said Fox, referring to parents who often won't let students move off-campus without the guarantee. 
Along with the proposal to eliminate the fines, Jaeger also sug­gested the University could set a later deadline for housing contracts. 
But Abood said the administration needs the contracts early enough to ascertain the number of rooms available for next year's freshmen. 

Notre Dame professors offer reactions to shuttle mishap 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
Copy Editor 
When the space shuttle Chal­lenger exploded shortly after liftoff a week ago, a nation feared Its hopes and dreams for the future ofmanned space flight might be lost in the blast. 
The catastrophe has caused the National Aeronautics Space Ad­ministration. the Reagan Administra­tion, and the American public to rethink its position on the value of manned space travel and con­template whether to rely solely upon unmanned flight. More specifi­cally, after the death of schoolteac­her Christa McAuliffe, concern has arisen for the prospect of putting civilians in space. 
Notre Dame Professors Robert Nelson and Thomas Mueller, both aerospace engineers, feel there is a need for hoth manned and un­manned space missions. 
"Man has proved his worth in space," said Mueller, director of research and engineering studies in the College of Engineering. "Men make decisions that computers can't make. We have perception and decision-making ability," he said. 
Nelson, associate director of aerospace and mechanical engineer­ing, said he agreed that men and women can perform some experi­ments that automatons cannot,. but deep space missions will have to remain unmanned with the present technology. 
"We should continue a vigorous manned program," he said. "But we may have been carried away with our success," he added. Nelson cited the success of the Apollo program and the 24 shuttle flights. 
"We were lulled into thinking it (manned travel) was safe," he said. "We felt the risk was similar to flying from Michiana airport to Chicago." 
"There are risks everywhere," Nelson said. "There are risks when you get in your car and drive it around. The astronauts knew the risks, they knew no system is. per­fect." 
Mueller said he believes it is a good idea to have a civilian go up in the shuttle. "We're not exploring, we're developing. Civilians are a part of this. 
Nelson said he questions whether it Is wise to use civilians at this time. But he pointed out that someday they may be necessary in space. 
"It will eventually happen that civilians will have to be used in space," he said. "They will become involved in the use of space for in­dustrial purposes," 
The general public was not prepared for the catastrophe of the shuttle, Mueller said. But the space agency will recover from the dis­aster, according to both professors. 
"First they will have to find the problem, then it will take at least three to four months to be ready for another flight," said Mueller. 
Mueller pointed out that the preparation for each flight is very carefully planned out. "They (NASA) don't rush things," he said. "They're probably the most profes­sional people in the whole country." 
Nelson said that because the flight boosters and fuel tank are attached to the shuttle for the dangerous time after liftoff, there is a perpetual chance for something catastrophic to occur. Mueller said he believes there will never be a real solution to the technical problem. 



Information Session 

Attention Candidates on Merrill Lynch Interview Schedule. Also Invited: Interested Juniors & Seniors -Any Major-
Find out how you can start building your career in the prestigious Financial Services industry. 
TOPIC:  Corporate Systems Program Corporate Intern Program (See Placement Office for more information on these  
programs)  
DATE:  Wednesday, February5, 1986  
TIME:  8 P.M.  

PLACE: Morris Inn-Notre Dame Room 

~Merrill Lynch 
"We'll have to wait until NASA says what happened. It's not a problem with the whole system, just one part. Once they fix that, they'll be back in business," Mueller said. 
According to Nelson, the nation will take a hard look at its objectives in the area ofspace travel. 
"There will be a reassessment of the program to see if what we're doing is okay. Maybe we're still right, maybe the program will need slight modification." he said. 

"High risk is always involved," Nelson added. In the past, he said, "numerous people have tried to push towards a new frontier. The risk has never deterred them." 

The Independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Is accepting applications for the following position: 
Editor-in-Chief 
Applications and personal statements are due Monday, Feb.10 at 5 p.m. For more information, see Sarah Hamilton at The Observer office. 
The Observer 3rd Floor, LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Did you know.. 
You are not obligated to sign anything 
presented to you. Anything you sign may be 
used against you In the future. 
You have the right to a written explanation of 
any disciplinary action or decision that 
concerns you. 
You have the right to be Informed of the nature of the charges 48 hours prior to a hearing on those charges. 
You have the right to receive assistance from the University In obtaining evidence needed for your defense. 
You have the right to present evidence In your defense at the hearing. As well, you have the right to have a witnesses speak on your behalf. 


Know Your Rights 
• 2nd of 5 adverflsementa on atudenll' rights when accuaed of a Un.'Venlty Offenle. 
(Clip and Post) 

Student Government 

-~----------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986-page 4 

ND Moot Court team gives final arguments 
By MARK MCLAUGHLIN represent Notre Dame in the Na­Copy Editor tional Moot Court Competition. 
Notre Dame law students had a This year's Moot Court team glimpse of their future occupation scored higher in intercollegiate Friday as the Notre Dame Moot competition than did last year's Court team presented its final argu­team, according to McPherson. In ments ofthe year. the Regional Competition, held in 
"The Moot Court is a mock Indianapolis last November, the representation of what happens In team of Cessar and Weldy received the Supreme Court of the United the highest brief score, while the States," said Mary McPherson, one of team of Horas and Spencer scored two executive directors in the Moot highest in oral competition in the Court program. The procedures preliminary rounds. Both teams followed in the Moot Court are the reached the quarterfinals, making 
The ObiC1'vcr/Mikl: Moy

Inch by inch
same as those in the Supreme Court, Notre Dame the only school to place with each side arguing its points for both its teams that highly. 

The ltnes were long yesterday as students wafted to the ticket booth hoping to get some ofthe 4,000 throughout the afternoon at the ACC for Keenan tickets available. 
30 minutes, followed by a decision 

Revue tickets. Thts group ofstudents inched closer 
by the judges, McPherson said. McPherson said that the final 
A verdict of no decision was argument is often referred to as the handed down in the hypothetical "showcase argument" because"(the case of Lanstel, Inc. against the City Moot Court) gives these students of Stewart at the 36th annual final the opportunity to showcase their 




Board discusses SAGA changes
argument on Friday. In a change talents in front of the Notre Dame from past years, the judges did not faculty and their fellow students." By KIM YURATOVAC speaker series entitled, "The Chang­a Keenan Review Party following the name one team better than another. This proved to be the case, as the News Staff ing Values And Lifestyles Of Notre show Thursday in Haggar College 
final argument was attended by Dame And Saint Mary's Under­Center. 
"The class of '86 has made the faculty and first-and second-year Revisions in SAGA's menus were graduates." This series, sponsored Kollman also stated that the col· Moot Court an easy case . . . they law students. among the topics discussed at the by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­lege programming board will be have decided that there will be no "They were very good," said Saint Mary's Board of Governance dent government, will take place sposoring the movie "Killing Us winner and no rankings second-year law student Juan Ber­meeting last night. March 9-1 5 on both campuses. Softly," which will portray the ef. meaning there will be no winners mudez of the Moot Court teams. He Bob Luedke of Saint Mary's SAGA fects of advertising on women. The announced, said Judge Kenneth added that he found the arguments food service announced the menu Student Body President Anne movie will be shown Feb. I 2 and 13 Ripple of the United States Court of hard to follow because he did not planning meetings at which students Marie Kollman spoke of the in the residence halls. Appeals for the 7th Circuit. have a copy of the briefs available. can help SAGA officials plan 21 problems the college was ex­
According to Ripple, it was felt The presiding judges said they meals for the dining hall. The next periencing with registration. She ex­According to Kollman, flashing that declaring a winner would were also impressed. "The argu­meeting will take place Feb. 20 at 7 plained that the Student Academic yellow caution lights for the inter­detract from the spirit of the final ments were excellently prepared, in the LeMans lobby. Council is working on a proposal to section of U.S. 31 and the road con­argument. and I felt the entire oral argument alleviate problems such as over­necting Notre Dame and Saint 
Also presiding over the final argu­performance was on a very high According to Luedke, SAGA will crowding and time conflicts. Mary's have been requested by ment were U.S. District Judge Frank level," said Kaufman after the argu­be changing weekend lunch hours Mary Lally announced the "Meet Director of Security Richard Kaufman and St. Joseph Superior ments were presented. "Some tough to 11:15-12:30 beginning Feb. 15. The Candidates" forum scheduled Chlebek. The lights, which will be CourtJudge Jeanne Swartz. questions were asked, and they were Other new ideas Luedke is consider­for Monday at 7 p.m. in the Haggar provided by the college, would be in 
Robert Cessar and Alan Weldy fielded well on both sides." ing are a yogurt bar, a fruit bar and a College Center. Student Govern­use from 6 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. on acted as counsel for Lanstel, Inc., the While no official decision was ren­greater variety of low calorie ment elections will be held on Feb. weeknights and 6 p.m. to 2:30 a.m. petitioners, while John Horas and dered, both Ripple and Kaufman said entrees. 12 from 7 a.m. until 6 p.m. on the weekends. Beth Spencer were counsel for the they felt that the counsel for Lanstel, Julie Harmon, vice president for Kollman announced that the stu­
respondent, the City ofStewart. The Inc., was slightly more convincing. academic affairs, emphasized the dent government will be sponsoring 
case involved the allotment of cable Swartz was called out of the final television rights in the city of argument to attend to Superior Stewart by the Department ofPower Court matters and was thus un­and Water. available for comment. 
These four third-year law students Kaufman felt that the counsel for were chosen in a long process that both petitioner and respondent was started in their first year, according of high caliber. In his closing to McPherson. She said that all law remarks on the final argument, he students were required to submit a said "I only wish I had the benefit of written argument and an oral this type of excellence day in and 
defense of this argument as part of day out." 
their first year studies. 
Interested students continued to compete on a intramural basis throughout their second year. Four students were chosen from this competition by faculty members to 



Please 
support 
AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY® 

Prlata and 8lldel from lbe same roB 
Kodak MP ltlm ... E....,. Kodltc't 
~--IMPIIIIm­...,_.attmu.lt'l3!mm~tJi 
Soottlofl-Entov_,.l.,.llfOJn ondriCIIQOIOr-llhoollnlowct -llgiii-200MAup.,1200MA. 
,......_...,_
Gellt>ooptional -"'-"'"""' 
INTRODUCTORYOFFER
·-~-----------------­
~~~~~~t~=~2~~ 
(200MAI.E-IoS200.1'dllke.,bo 
oblo10 gotcolor f)rinll onlldol(<>< bollll 
from the tame 1'011 of 11'111 quality film. 
HAilE 
A.DOMIS 
CITY iTATE ZIP Mill.,:-­
..,. ~~= ZZ74 
.............. --~-·-· 
.................... 
ounseline Voluntee~ 
Needed!II 

Students needed to staff the information tape 
' ' / /
service ofCounseling and Psychological Services 
' ' /
/ 
" 
on Friday evenings for 2 hour time blocks. Times are 4-12 A m./





"' /
Ifinterested, callMary(2!19-5485) 
v
................... 
~x.<:·~·~·::;:c::;:::c•~·>~:Y.#.X~~-!-(lillll(!-, 
. SUMMER PROGRAMS 
I NO -SMC STUDENTS I 
LONDON ROME····· 
May 21-June 20 !f211~ June 15-July 14~ 1:=-(!')o-_.,.ti•~ Travel In France ~ 
Travel In Ireland Scotland & France Gernaany & SwitzerlandI 
Courses In Biology, Business, History, Italian Music, Sociology, and Theatre 

Informational Meeting Feb. 17 I•~ 
PASSPORT PHOTOS AVAILABLE 

349 Madaleva Hall, SMC, at 7p.m. Previous students and teachers will be present to .. answer questions. 1-800-321-5911 ~ ~" COLORADO \le ,\\~
IFor further Info. call Professor A.R. Black at x4460 
1-800-321·5912 .~~
'' or at 272·3726 
or contact a local Sunchaae representative or your 
local travel &Qency TODAY!
J-,;~::>1D!•·1•Sie•(>11!k)~'iWiiPK'-':iM:'i-~~--l• 1,.n•-..., 



SOPHOMORES 
JUNIORS 


&SENIORS 
SPEND AN AFTERNOON IN YOUR SPECIFIC CAREER INTEREST! 
CAREER ORIENTATION DAY 
TUESDAY, MARCH 11,1986 
in Indianapolis 


MARCH
apply at the Alumni Assocation Office by Monday, February 10 lrl1-8 ~ 15-22 $12.00 fee for transportation, lunch &dinner lrl 8-15 lrl 22-29 
CONDO OR HOTEL L'ODGING 
PARTIES I GOODIE BAGS I MORE!
Limited space available sponsored by the Alumni Association StudentAlumni Relations Group (SARG) 

The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 5 

Replace Lost, Damaged, 
or Discolored Lenses at a 
Fraction of their Original 
CostI 
*Dally Wear Lenses 
•Amsol 
•Amertcan 
Hydron •Aosolt 

• 
Bausch & Lomb •Crb8SOf1 •Durasoll 


$41.93 pair 
' Tinted Lenses 
• Bausch & Lomb 
Natural Tmls • C1basoll Colors 
'63.97 pair 
'htltiiiH w-"•••• •AOSoltcon $57/pr 
•Bausch & Lomb $45/pr •CooperVISIOn Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $97/pr •Durasoll 3 $57/pr •GeneSIS 4 $55/pr • Hydrocurve $87/pr 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 


,.-------------,I 
D••• 
I o••• O«IGI 1 r'lll\1 ••"d "'' 1 cop, ol m, IIIUI tOfl 
I ;:,~·:~~~~":.•~;~!';t~~o;, :~:.~:.~o~~~~·: I f'O~<~ ...''"'"'C:I'I 

I  
I  
I  
I  .... r ....  
l· IL  ··~  
I1  b•-·•·  ~ o~Va~•·  o1  ,_  
I•  
I,  

•. i (•••,.W•·
I r • 1•••~ .......... 
I 
L---.:::~ s.:!:':~ :~-:.­
All lonuo guoronlood lirol qulllly, ond 111 ouppl11d In lhl origlnll IIC1Dry 111114 yttll 

FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS f ACQ~oJ!fe your comc~ere contact 1en~ 
orescnp!lon 2 Comp1e1e the order Dt'IOW 3 M.ake cnec~t I'T10ney order or 
CQITIOie!e Cr&Oil tarO 1nforma10n paya~ D1e to CLS 1nc 4 Enc..ose ,ame adoress & pnone number WI In order !) Ma~o a1 tnlormd!IOn to 
Contact Lens Supply, lne. 30650 Carter Rd. Cleveland, Ohio 44139 216/248-2416 
·eontact Lens Suppliers for 25 years " Please send ___pairs at 
only a pair. UNO 
.,....,........ 
• 5111,..,......,._z_.a_a_ 
.,.... 
I have enclosed total pay-.rt In the following 
-r:
check ____, order 
VISA MaaterConl 
(Personal Checks must be Cleared pnor to ShiptTl<lnl) 
..........._______ 
..__________ 

•
·-No slftl&t ltnl ordtn pltast. 

• 
Wt will keep all prtscriptionl on file lor reorders. 

• 
tO •. of the l•n••• ordtrtd art In our lnwtnlory and ready to bt shipptd in 24 houri. 



duLac 
continuedfrom page 1 
The: student is entitled to 
representation at the hearing by an 
undergraduate student. Within the 
judicial Council, Tim McDowell, Pat 
Flood and Ingwersen have volun­
teered to represent students, she 
said, adding that the student is not 
limited to these people. 
"It can be any undergrad, but 
these arc: the people on the judicial 
Council that have volunteered to 
handle this," Ingwersen said. 
Noting that students are often 
hesitant about asking a friend to 
represent them, Ingwersen sug­
gested that such representation can 
often be helpful. 
"It is not Inadvisable to take in a 
friend, because if it's you who is on 
trial, you might tend to be hesitant 
about doing or saying anything be­
cause you're afraid it might hurt you. 
In this sense:, an uninvolved friend 
helps because they can be ob­
jective," Ingwersen said. 
"Surprisingly, the: competency of 
the undergrad is not much of a fac­
tor," she added. "I had thought it 
would be: otherwise, but each in­
dividual case is handled according 
to the actual evidence presented, 
not how it is presented." 
During the hearing, as stated in du 
Lac, everyone present has the right 
to call and question witnesses and to 
present evidence. 
Once all the evidence has been presented, the review board makes a decision on the case. This decision must be reached by a majority ofthe panel members and can be to either uphold the penalty, to lessen the penalty, or "to make the penalty stif· fer it they feel it's necessary," In­gwersen said. 
"Any number of imaginary punishments are possible. Whatever they want to create (as a penalty) is fine, so in this sense there is a risk involved," she added. 
President Has Final Say 
At this point, either the student or the Office of Residence Life has seven days to appeal the decision to Hesburgh. The Office of Residence Life then prepares a summary of the case · whether they have submitted 
~ 


~~ "'' 
the appeal or the student has· which 
is reviewed by the: panel chairman. If 
It is approved, it Is sent to Hesburgh 
for a final decision. 
Of the: three cases appealed to the 
Review Board In which Ingwersen 
was involved, the penalty was les­
sened In all three situations, she said. 
Two of these were then appealed to 
Hesburgh by the Office ofResidence 
Life. Hesburgh upheld the original 
penalty ofsuspension in both cases. 
"I will say that in the case this 
semester that brought the parietals 
issue to the forefront, I considered 
all ofthe information presented that 
was relevant to the case," Hesburgh 
stated in a letter responding to the 
judicial Council's Inquiry into the 
penalties imposed on parietals 
violators. 
"Certainly, there are many cases 
in which specific sanctions would 
ordinarily be Imposed, but nothing 
is automatic. To do so would defeat 
the whole purpose of hearings and 
the presentation of facts regarding 
the Incident in question," Hesburgh 
wrote. 
"You may disagree with the penalty imposed in the: overnight parietal case that became public this semester, but it is another matter to suggest that the sanction was automatically imposed without all facts being taken Into considera­tion," he added. 
Last semester the HPC criticized Hesburgh's decision involving the suspension of two students because of a parietals violation. 
The letter sent to Hesburgh by the Judicial Council read in part "While: we do agree with the existence of the parietals policy, we believe the penalty imposed on the: individuals who violate this rule is far too severe .... In addition, these punishments should be flexible enough to allow for the consideration of extenuatio.g circumstances and the intent of the violator." 
According to the recent parietals survey conducted by junior Bruce Lohman, 83 percent of the 227 respondents thought that the penalties imposed on parletals violators are too severe, while none thought they are too lenient. Four percent thought that the reduction of minimum penalties would greatly hinder the observance of the parle­tals code, while 36 percent thought it would not at all. 

~~~,. 


~... ~ 
~~~. .;..~~~ ~ mrufrffiU'illl@ 
~ g 
~~ 

"" I.l'. IlfTBlll!fS -a two year extracur· ricular career development program in the growing field of compensation and benefits-is now considering applicants for 1986-88internship opportunities. 
Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with area or national firms during the two summers before graduation and attend required educa­tional seminars in Chicago during the academic year. 
I.l'. IlfTIIlllfS is for the energetic soph· omore seeking to channel academic ex· cellence toward specific career goals. Minimum 3.0 GPA required. Deadline for application is February 14. 
For more information visit the Career and Placement Services Center in Memo­rial Library, or call/write: 
Ellen Henderson !.F. INTERNS International Foundation of 
Employee Benefit Plans 3 West Burton Place Chicago, IL 60610 312-337-0710 
(The International Foundation is a nonprofit educational organization.) 

Observer promotes seven 
Spcd11l to The Observer 
The: Observer news depart· mc:nt has made: the following ap­pointments to its staff: 
Keith Harrison, a junior American studies major from Pit· tsburgh, Pa., returns to the department as an assistant news editor. Harrison was previously a news editor. 
Also promoted to the position of assistant news editor is Cindy Rauckhorst, a junior English and economics major from Oxford, Ohio. She had been a copy editor and a staff reporter. 
Joining the news department as copy editors are Alex Peltzer 

Parietals 
continued/rom page 1 tually giving me another chance," she said. The particular sanction given to a student is decided by the board she chooses to appear before, and also depends on the case, said Rissmeyer. "There may be tension over how differently we respond, but that's be:· cause our philosphy is different," said Rlssmeyer, in response to stu· dent reactions to sanctions given to parietals violators. Disciplinary probation involves a strongly-worded letter placed in a student's file for up to one: year. If the student is charged with another violation, the letter can have In· fluc:nce over the next sanction,jack· owski said. 
Different Reactions, Same Situation 
For a parietals violation involving a man from Notre Dame at Saint Mary's, the Notre Dame student is dealt with according to his behavior, said Rissmeyer. 
"Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are separate campuses, yet we have a cooperative relationship. If there's a problem with a Notre: Dame student becoming loud or abusive to a res!· dent advisor, we'll send his name over to ND," Rlssmeyer said. 
jacksowski added, "We hold the woman responsible for the behavior of her guest." 
If the name of a Notre Dame stu· dent is turned over by Saint Mary's officials, how the matter is handled depends on the circumstances, said Ann Firth, director of residence life at Notre Dame. 
Because the matter has never come up, Firth said, she could not say what the particular sanction would be in this case. 
and Mark McLaughlin. Peltzer, an American studies major from Visalia, Calif., previously worked as a design assistant and a staff reporter. Mclaughlin, an aerospace engineering major from Middletown, NJ., is also the Observer's assistant production manager. 
The: Observer's new day chief is Tripp Baltz, a junior American studies and German major from Memphis, Tenn. Baltz is also a news copy editor. 
joining the news department as day editors are Blll Herzog, a junior from Reading, Mas!i., and Ellyn Mastako, a senior com· munications and history major. 
"I guess I or Dr. Goldrick would 
talk with our counterparts at Saint 
Mary's, and decide how it would be: 
handled," said Firth. 
Ifa Saint Mary's student is rude or abusive to a rector or resident assis· tant at Notre Dame:, the student's name will go to Rissmeyer, who handles it accordingly. 
One Notre Dame resident assis­tant, who also requested anonymity, said this almost never happens be· cause most RA's do not ask a woman's name no matter what the circumstance. 
"We've: had paric:tals violations before, and it didn't matter where the girl was from. We just don't take their names (in our hall). That's just the way we do things here," he said. 
Scott Cade, an RA in Keenan Hall, said he would not deal with the girl, but would find out who she was. 
"I would ask the: guy to take: the girl home, then come see me. I'd never embarrass the guy In front of the girl. Then we'd take It from there," said Cade. 
Brother Bonaventure Scully, Keenan Hall rector, said he would ask the girl for her 10, send her home, then turn the 10 over to someone: at Saint Mary's. 
"One thing Is, you don't go looking for it. What you do find, or catch, is coincidental," said Scully. 
Once reported at Saint Mary's, Rls· smc:yc:r said she handles tht mauc:r according to the circumstances of the case. Everything, she said, is taken Into account, such as the time of the violation, how the student behaved toward the particular RA or rector and any previous violations. She then has a conference with the student to discuss the: matter. 
"Usually, if a Saint Mary's student is rude: or abusive to a rector or resl· dent advisor on the: Notre Dame campus, her name will go to me:, and I'll handle it from there," Rissmc:yer said. 
AHention All Studentsl!! 
The Chicago Tribune's 
Advertising and Marketing Departments are sponsoring a 
Question and Answer Reception 
Wednesday, Feb. 5 6-8pm Senior Alumni Club 
Even ifyou are unable to schedule an appointment with one ofour recruiters, we encourage you to attend this reception and to submit your resume to the placement office for our review. 




~i~~~_{)__i_Il__t_________________Tu-esd_~_,Fe-bru_a_ry_4,1-98_6_-pa-ge-6 
Education is the key to ending future of apartheid 
------~-­
The question of apartheid is answered so easily by armchair academics, by liberals with preconceptions, by conservatives with indif­ference. That apartheid is wrong is not even a consideration. Anyone with the slightest feel for humanity understands the equality of man irrespective of anything. The problem lies in how do we change the status quo? The solu­tions that we provide must have the compas­sion and insight that will lead to enhanced world harmony, and not merely an answer to the South African situation. 
Blaise Aguirre 
guest column 
The ruling Nationalist party has been in control since 1948. Of party leaders, P.W. Botha is considered the most lenient ever. The last elections (in which blacks could not vote), saw 19 members of his party leave to form the Conservative party. It was numeri­cally insignificant in an assembly ofmore than 140 seats, more than 100 occupied by the Nationalists, but it was a sign that some people felt the government was making too many concessions too quickly. 
In the last by-elections five seats were con­tested. All were Nationalist-controlled, and the general feeling was that they should retain them relatively easily. They won four of the five. One went to the ultra-right wing Herstigte Nasionale Party. They had not won a seat in the previous 18 years of existence. Again numerically insignificant. 
Another interesting fact was that in the previous elections, the liberal white anti­apartheid party, the Progressive Federal party, won more seats than ever before to become the official opposition. The government was being tugged at from both left and right. 
Petty apartheid is ending. Everyday more restaurants open up to all, more bus services are becoming trans-racial, more job oppor­tunities open up on the basis of merit rather than color. But these things are really only cosmetic changes that attempt to beautify that which is ugly. It is an inherent quality under oppressive shackles. 
The Communist African National Congress was banned and its leader Nelson Mandela jailed for high treason and sentenced to life in prison. He has been offered freedom on various occasions on condition that he renounce violence as a means of change, something which he has not accepted. 
After Mandela, it was the "death" in jail of a truly inspirational Steve Biko that drew that world's attention to South Africa. Imprison­ment without trial is something to which the government is ·going to have to answer. 
There are today two black leaders of na­tional significance in South Africa. The first is Bishop Desmond Tutu, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. The second is Bishop Buthelezi, leader of the five million-strong Inkhata and spiritual leader ofthe mighty Zulu nation. 
Tutu's outspokenness and internationalism make him dubious in the eyes of a skeptical nation. Neither the whites, who feel he is trying to undermine the country's economy with his calls for disinvestment, nor the blacks who feel that he spends too much time abroad in a glory-seeking globetrot while they suffer back home, think Tutu will be a truly national leader. 
Buthelezi, on the other hand, is not very dif­ferent from our own Martin Luther King. He spends much time bringing the plight of the blacks to the senses of the whites. He calls for a peaceful and comprehensive end to apar­theid and sees divestment as using an evil to combat an evil. 
A major problem that has arisen over the past decade is that on the extreme left, the ugly head ot the ANC has reared itself again. It comes to mainly uneducated black people with the Marxist promise of"true" equality. It disrupts classes, instigating students to com­mit acts of senseless violence, and it blatantly murders fellow blacks who show signs ofnon­violence. 
It is a well-organized, Soviet-trained group that wishes to ensure that the strategically situated, mineral-wealthy treasure chest of Africa becomes a further conquest in modern Soviet colonialism. It happened in Rhodesia­Zimbabwe, it happened in Mozambique, it happened in Angola. Every sign indicates it will happen in South Africa unless careful steps are taken. 
That apartheid must end is inevitable and right. The question is when and how. I truly feel the answer lies in education. Education not only ofthe still mainly Third World black, but education of the often complacent white, too. But this can only take place over a genera­tion. 
Black and white children must grow up playing together in kindergarten so they will be able to rule a future united in South Africa together. And if the South African government won't educate the blacks then it is the moral duty ofthe rest of the world to do so. 
This could be done if all those "mightier than thou" companies leaving South Africa now would reinvest in the benefits of the majority black populus. The whites then would be forced to deal with a politically and academically competent people. The new South Africa would then truly be a paragon of a successful attempt by the world to construct atrue harmony. 
Blaise Aguirre ia a former Notre Dame stu­dent now in his third year ofmedicine at the University of the Witwatersrand in johan· nesburg, South Africa. 


Students must realize the problems of alcohol 
Lest my views about the alcohol use and so­cial life on campus be misconstrued, please allow me to restate them publicly. 
Terrence R. Keeley guest column 
• 
I completely support the institution and continued enforcement of the so-called "Beauchamp Report," believing as I do that the level of alcohol abuse at Notre Dame had reached epidemic proportions, and believing as I do that the misuse ofalcohol continues to threaten and pervade too much ofthe Univer­sity ofNotre Dame's social fabric. 

• 
Alcohol can and should be used maturely. Student leaders and the administra­tion should continue to try to plan such occa­sions which permit legal and wise alcohol consumption. Such occasions might include faculty/student soirees, formal dinner and so­cial functions, and daytime receptions. 

• 
It is simply not right for the University to condone social affairs which invariably lead to widespread or habitual student drunkenness. Before the administration relaxes the campus­wide restrictions on alcohol, Notre Dame stu­dents should demonstrate more reliable self-restraint and responsibility at off-campus social gatherings. 

• 
It is the students' attitude about alcohol use that most needs changing, not the ad­


ministration's. Alcohol abuse is a widespread social problem in the United States and around the globe. Notre Dame students, being superior individuals, are called to recognize alcohol-related problems and rise above them. 
A recurring theme of the two-hour discus­sion I enjoyed with hall presidents, student senators and other student leaders last Satur­day afternoon was that the administration simply does not understand and refuses to lis­ten to the students' pleas for more autonomy. Several specific examples cited seemed to me to be legitimate complaints given the Beauc­hamp guidelines, and I sympathize with the students' feelings of frustration. I suspect frustration amongst both the students and ad· ministration will remain high, however, until the students fully realize the nature of the so· cial changes which the administration rightly seeks and strives with them to achieve it. 
I am grateful to Bill Healy and the student 
government for inviting me out to the campus 
for an eye-opening discussion and candid ex­
change ofviews. While alcohol use seemed to 
dominate our talks, a host ofother issues were 
discussed too. I intend to convey all of the 
students' views and concerns to the Board at 
its Executive Committee meeting next 
weekend. 
Ten-ence R. Keeley is a member ofthe Notre Dame Board ofTrustees. 
New institution will be 'best hope' for world peace 
"Two all beefpatties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles and onions on a sesame seed bun." 
Maybe the marketing strategies that took Ray Kroc and the golden arches to fast food fame can be successful in bringing peace to the world. Surely, bringing about peace through a S7 million donation to a Notre Dame "peace institute" shouldbe no more dif­ficult than putting the golden arches on streets from Paris to Hong Kong. IfRay Kroc's genius could cause the Chinese and French to wholeheartedly seek out his golden arches, peace should be as easy as making french fries. 
Steve Safranek a view from the limb 
Kroc was eminently successful because he knew how to market hamburgers. He and his advisors knew how to convince the public that they would receive an inexpensive 
Doonesbury 
THE MASSWS& 7HEN I WAS FROM THe RI6HT. !JEAN 
VWWO CEN-HON&Y/ [)(}!<& 78R HAS MYS-HAt; BeeN "$RJOU5t.Y ZfJM8/FI&l?! 
quality meal under the golden arches. Moreover, he convinced people that they wanted to eat hamburgers and french fries on a regular basis. 
A fine tribute was paid to him by his wife, joan, who gave $7 million to Notre Dame. to establish a peace institute; (this was just a touch ofher estimated $700 million fortune.) Notre Dame can use such a grant for enhanc­ing its role as a leader on social issues in several ways. 
First, such an institute should build itself a building -one with golden arches and a mar­quee that reads "over 60 billion measures of peace bestowed." By our studying the issue of peace, we should be as successful in ending its absence as McDonald's was in marketing the big mac. The jingle already springs to mind. People will soon have "peace attacks," feelings of anxiety (worse than hunger pains) that will have them charging to the doors of the institute for their portion of peace wis­dom. 
IT RE!?UC£5 Hl5 METABOUC RATe
7H& VICTIM 15 POl­
TO THE POINT !AIH/3R& He /JPPCARS
SON&[) TOPICAUY 
CJeAlJ! H&'S 7HCN BURIW, ANO
WITH TH/3 TOXIN OF 
LAW<. [)()G UPANlJ REVIVE/) 8YA
A PUffl3R F6H.. 
vrowo 50F?a~?EF.. ..
\ 
IfNotre Dame is as clever in marketing as it seems, it may even be able to influence Burger King or Wendy's to sponsor another institute. I suggest an institute for "Love Studies." Even­tually, if we can establish enough of those programs, we can do away with the need for graduate programs that study philosophy, theology, or literature. Such an end is obvious to the liberal mind that recognizes peace and love are of primary academic concern in this world ftlled with war and nuclear weaponry. 
Surely, wise men will see that utopia may be at hand: that which has eluded generation after generation ofour forefathers will now be taught at Notre Dame, (non-degree seeking students need apply.) 
Not only does such a program raise our awareness (awareness raising being of primary importance in doing away with the evils in today's complex society), it again marks Notre Dame as a leader in American educational circles. Other schools may teach their students about mere philosophy or theology, or may even train great physicists. 
Garry Trudeau 
SOUNI?S Ul<& 
.. ANI? THEN
50Mta<AZY 
50/..l?INTO
FRATe~ITY 
5/..AV&RY/
5TUNT. 
I 
But Notre Dame can teach people how to bring about peace. The University can take young adults and inculcate them with such wisdom that virtue itself, sufficient to bring peace, will result. We will prove again that old Catholic adage, that knowledge is virtue, that war can be avoided if only people knew what our wise teachers know. 
This new institute is our best hope for world peace. We need no longer fear the Soviets or any warlike country because graduates of the institute, peace scholars, will be able to show the leaders ofthe Kremlin, the as yet unslaughtered Afghanistanees, and the repressed people ofeastern Europe and South Africa that all ofthe repression was just a mis­calculation. 
What a tribute to Notre Dame. What a tribute to Ray Kroc. Peace is at hand. Hold the pickles. 
Steve Safranek is a second-year law stu­dent and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Quote of the day 
"The person who knows howwill always have a job. Butthe person who knows whywill be his boss." 
-Carl C. Wood 
"ielYP-~O~i~n~t~------------------------------------------T_u_e_sd_a_y_,F_e_b_ru_ruy 4_,_t_9B_6_-_P_ag_e 7 
P.O.BoxQ 
Republicans, insinuating that his true interest was not solely confined to the realm ofBoiler­makerdom. If johnson's problem were truly
Wednesday lunch fast Skiles is tarnishing 
with a group of manipulative and ungrateful "victimizers" (as he portrays the migrant Dear Editor: farmworkers to be), appearing on his campus Dear Editor: 
On behalf of the Senior Staff for Studem M­and inciting protests, (in a quite un­There are people who feel that Scott Skiles falrs, I am really pleased to send you (Kevin Republican manner), that would be quite puz­has fallen victim to his public visibility. Others Moser, president of the World Hunger Coali­zling. feel that care should be taken in making his tion) the enclosed check in the amount of Why, then, does he blow off steam in the punishment fair and reasonable. Some people 57,966 for transmittal to the Notre Dame Notre Dame-Saint Mary's studem newspaper? feel that the maximum penalty should be Hunger Coalition for distribution to the I am sure such a fine university as Purdue has a imposed and then there are some members of various overseas relief organizations, accord­campus chronicle of some sort in which he our youth that applaud his celebrity status and 
ing to the criteria it has established through its could voice his concern for Campbell's in­ability to evade jail and punishment. own research. tegrity. Perhaps we should be more skeptical. I personally feel that the NCAA, Michigan 
These funds represent 7,966 lunch meals Barbara Grant State University President john DiBiaggio, during the fall semester just completed. As we Farley Hall Athletic Director Doug Weaver and Coach know, these meals were given up by those stu­Judd Heathcote should all be condemned for dems who pledged to forego their Wednesday Student Affairs should not acting swiftly in expelling Scott from the 
lunch In order to come to a greater awareness MSU basketball team and scholarship status. of what hunger actually feels like and to aid Every time Scott Skiles takes to the basketball 

reaped great profits name of entire Big Ten 
question many issues 
those less fortunate than themselves. court, he is crippling the integrity of the
Dear Editor: 
Our congratulations to you, Kevin, and to NCAA, Big Ten, the institution of Michigan
In the beginning there were caves and
all Notre Dame students who have cared State University, the players of MSU, but most
cavemen who made music by banging sticks 
enough to cooperate with your coalition importantly, he is insulting the fans and law­
and stones. Today, there are cavelike dorm
venture. It certainly afforded many students abiding citizens of this country by reinforcing
rooms occupied by "Young Adults" who are 
an opportunity to identify with and to reach the all-too-often truism that power, fame,
fortunate to have high tech stereo equipment
out and help the hungry poor. fortune and celebrity status are all keys to the
that can play at various sound levels, depend­
Sr. jean Lenz corridor of"above the law" status. 
ing on who your R.A. is.
Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs I am a Big 10 sports fan but more impor­
Recently, I heard of a young lady who was 
tantly I am a Big 10 institution fan. I want to
sanctioned or punished for repeatedly player­
see the Big 1 0 practice honest recruiting

Fragmentation in films 
ing her stereo over a sound level which was 
viewed as procedures, develop sportsmanlike athletes,
acceptable. The punishment en­
provide higher educational opportunities and

is an essential quality 
tailed denying the young lady and her educate their athletes and to be competitive
roommate the right to turn on their ownDear Editor: and provide good entertainment for the loyal
stereo for a period of two weeks; however, it
In response to John Dettling's editorial on fans. It is an honor to be part of the Big 10
was not this childish punishment the
network television, I would like to agree with athletic programs and it is also a big repson­
respected rectress sanctioned that upset me. I 
him that it has little to offer. I, too, have out­sibility for the athletes to uphold their well
have grown to expect that juvenille attitude 
grown my childhood tastes and cannot stand respected status. To have such an individual in 
from the Office of Student Affairs in general, 
to sit through much of what the networks the Big 10 not only tarnishes all of the
but the other half of the 'punishment' upset 
serve up. However, the fragmentary nature of respected athletes ofthe Big I 0, both past and
me. 
television and fllm should not be derogated or present, but it is also embarrassing to the
The second halfofthe punishment entailed 
blamed for the wretched quality of programs thousands of individuals who hail from these
that the respected student was ordered to 
or our loss ofliteracy. Fragmentation of reality fine institutions. 
report to Logan Center every Saturday mor­
is the essence of film and its offspring, televi­So, my plea goes to all ofthose who feel like 
ning for a couple of hours to help people less 
sion, that which distinguishes it from the I do. Let's stop the three years of embarrass­
fortunate. This concept ofpunishing someone 
theater. If you've ever seen a filmed stage play ment, roars of boos in arenas across the Mid­
by sending them to Logan Center to help
using a stationary camera, it's incredibly west, newspaper articles sent out via wire
physically and mentally handicapped people
boring. On the contrary, some commercials, services and the laws of this country being
seems to me very immoral. This would make it 
In spite of their exploitive purposes, are bril­repeatedly violated. Let us remove Scott Skiles 
seem as if the respected authorities saw the 
liant in thdr quick-cutting. Psychology tells us from the Big Ten and place him where society
people in Logan Center as something similar 
that the mind fills in the gaps; we don't need to places repeated violators of our laws until he
to lepers. This supposed punishment I feel Is 
be shown everything. Ufe itself is fragmen­duly learns his lesson. This is the law of our
very unthoughtful and unrespectful to those 
tary. Notice as you walk down the quad -as land and should be the law of the NCAA and
people who frequent the Logan Center. Some­
you turn your head and alter your concentra­the Michigan State athletic department.
thing like this, coming from what is meant to
tion, you do not see the whole of everything; james David
be the Catholic university ofAmerica, upsets 
we're not given time to ponder, rather, we're Sturgis,MI
me greatly.
bombarded with chaotic and incomplete 
This is not however the first time I have
images. Therefore, one could say, although 
heard of this action by respected rectors and
this is arguable, that fllm and television rectresses, but it is only now I really thought Neal, Student Activities represent a truer version ofreality, at least su­
of what this action means. That is why I am
perficially, than the stage. The theater, though voicing my disgust, and I would encourage have students in mind still valid, is more artificial. 
anybody who feels similar to do the same im­
In short, fragmentation is an essential mediately. Dear Editor: quality of film and television; we should not Sean Evers As Sarah Hamilton was negligent in imply­denigrate that. Instead, we should criticize the Off-campus student ing that joni Neal and the Student Activities content -the mentality -or lack thereof, that Office are not working wlth students to plan goes into these programs. That is the real quality social events, we members of the

Poem captures feelings 
problem. "Around the Corner Club" would like to set Donald Seymour the record straight.

incurred after tragedy 
Morrissey Hall These women have met with us at least Dear Editor: weekiy since May of 1985 to plan innovative As I mourned the loss of the seven crew and exciting social events. Along with this, 
members aboard the space shuttle Chal­they have sacrificed many hours of their own lenger, I recalled a poem of the English poet, free time to help implement these activities.

We should be skeptical 
Stephen Spender, which summed up my On the subject of budgets, every penny of feelings rather well. The poem merits sharing. the "increased budget" has gone directly to Dear Editor: I think continually ofthose who are truly social programming or will be used to 
In the Jan. 23 Observer, Bradley johnson, a great... develop the new undergraduate club in student at Purdue University, was quoted con­The names of those who in their lives LaFortune. Any insinuations thatjoni Neal and cerning the boycott of Campbell's products fought for ltfe. her staff have anything other than the best in­endorsed by FLOC and supported by Notre Who wore at their hearts tbe firo's center. terests ofstudents In mind are totally false. Dame. johnson's sole Interest was to express Born ofthe sun they travelled a short while It is a shame that the valid portions of Miss his concern about the possibility of a similar towards tbe sun, Hamilton's column were ove.rshadowed by 
movement on his own campus In West And left the vivid atr signed wtth honor. her obsession wlth false rumors. We too Lafayette. May their dreams never die. believe that It is time to forget the "alcohol He did, however, publicly admit he was the Gregory Shumaker fests" that dominated the social life of yes­
president ofthe Indiana Federation ofCollege Notre Dame law student teryear and look toward the future. 

of Johnson's response 
Editorial Board 
··-. -----.L-...::.Y:., ·----­
--·-I-he-O.bse·~~er----­
P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCulloughNotre Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It dOes not necessanly reflect the policies of the 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Therese Guarino 
adm1mstrat1on of etther institl.tion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Sible Uns1gned edttonals represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healylanes. letters and the ll'lSide Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy ava1lable to all members of the commun1ty and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor .................. ..... Peter C. Laches campus. through lettfn. IS encouraged. 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
It Is time we all start working together to improve OUR social life. 
janet Grojean john Rubino Steering Committee, Around the Corner Club 

Know about companies before a job interview 
Dear Editor: 
Since E.F. Hutton will be at Notre Dame 
recruiting students this semester, a brief 
reminder of some unfortunate events In that 
company's recent past might be in order. 
Last year the U.S. government discovered 
that for the past few years, Hutton had been 
passing checks between different bank ac­
counts in different cities at a rate rapid enough 
to maintain high balances in interest-bearing 
accounts, without supplying the actual cash. 
When done by individuals this is called 
check kiting and Is a criminal offense, no mat­
ter how small the amounts of money used. 
What's curious about the Hutton case is that 
none of the company's top executives have 
been prosecuted, though Hutton kited its 
checks on a billion dollar level. 
Hutton, of course, has an explanation. Ac­
cording to chairman Robert Fomon, Hutton's 
upper echelon was not even aware·that this 
was happening. In Fomon's explanation, the 
managers of Hutton's local offices came up 
with the idea on their own, and implemented 
the practice on a national level without telling 
their bosses. 
Sure, It was just a coincidence, the product of team spirit and lntlative in the middle­management ranks. 
There are a couple more coincidences In this story. For Instance, Fomon happened to be in Washington the day before the justice Department released its report. And what do you know? He had lunch wlth the then head of that department, former Attorney General William French Smith. Fomon claims that the little get-together was purely a social one, set up by the two men's wives. Sure. 
The purpose of my letter Isn't necessarily just to criticize E.F. Hutton, but to also ques­tion what all we holler-than-thou domers are doing. On one hand, I can't criticize a person for interviewing with the company. Ifthey of­., 
fered me a job wlth a good salary, I would jump at It so fast their greedy ll~tle heads would spin. 
On the other hand, we here under that shadow of Our Lady say we're gravely con­cerned with ethics in business. In fact, I can't even get In the philosophy course of that name because It's too crowded. Aword many ofus use to describe Notre Dame is "classy," a word I associate more with mob-run Las Vegas casinos and Mary Kay cosmetics company cars wlth spoked wheels than universities with high moral standards. 
Anyway, we proclaim these to be our prin­ciples, then turn around and work for men and women who sell airplane toilet seats to our government for thousands. 
Nevertheless, I have my qualms about writing this. Though I am a senior, I am In no danger of being kidnapped by evil corporate giants who want to pay me good money. In sharp contrast to the innocent actions of Hut­ton's executives, a vicious secret circle of professors here has engaged In a conspiracy to keep my grade point average well below the "get a nice job with a big company like E.F. Hutton level." 
I mean maybe IfHutton would, God forbid, bend the rules a little and hire this useless his­tory major to run its payroll accounts, I could produce massive salary increases for the employees, including, of course, myself, wit­hout ever letting my bosses find out. 
Martin P. Madden Nolrr! Dame student 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ..............................Jim Hagan Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
Founded November 3, 1966 

------------------~­
Accent 

Lounge
Social life alive and well with Around the Corner 
COLLEEN CLYNES 

features writer 
H 
oosier Hysteria. The Windham temporary. "A new name for the cater to. Our club is not just for 
Hill Series. Mass Appeal. The club is being decided uJ1on," ex­freshmen or sophomort>~ as most 
Honeymooners "Lost Episodes" plains Vince Willis, student leader people think. We are here tor the 
night at Alumni Senior Bar. ofthe club. "Next year we'll have a whole campus. That <lea just hasn't 
If you attended just one ofthese specific place to meet and will need cau~ht on." Lanan states. 
few activities you have participated to rename ourselves." 
in an Around the Corner Club Willis is one ofa twelve-member Willis sai<l he feel~ n · "Jl·.ue ha!> 
Dance Floor 
event. The name not tamiliar? student committee that plans been an< .ti< eabtt· inc: .:.tse in ath'll­Surprisingly enough to many stu­events. Membership is open to dance over -.:cent wet ..s, am1 "aL dents, this organization has been anyone willing to donate some time seems that aU the stud.:nts that have providing many ofthe social events and creativity. They meet on Mon­attended our events have for the this year. The name, however, has days at 4:15p.m. in the newly­most part enjoyed themselves." remained in relative obscurity. renovated basement of LaFortune. "The group waiting for John Until now. Any interested students are more Cougar tickets certainly seemed 
The Around the Corner Club than welcome to attend one of appredative," adds Lanan. Along wants to capture both the attention these sessions. with radio station WZZP, the and interest ofstudents. Most ofall, Another interesting aspect ofthe Around the Corner Club distributed they want to make themselves Around the Corner Club is its spon­hot chocolate and doughnuts to known. sership ofother organization's fans waiting for tickets. 
The idea behind the club "came events. "Every so often a group will Anonymity has been a definite along with the alcohol policy," approach us and say, hey, we've got setback. The club is mainly trying tostates Adele Lanan, Assistant Direc­this great idea but not enough make themselves known at the tor ofStudent Affairs. Director of money to pull it off. If the student present time. Neal stresses theStudent ActivitiesJoni Neal committee approves oftheir idea, 

importance ofthis, "A lot ofmoney
describes the club's general then we will allocate not only the has been committed to the club's Loungepurpose, "We wanted to create necessary financial donation but 
future, so it's important for students
positive programs and events also often an energy donation as 
to get an accurate understanding of
entirely non-alcoholic in nature." well," explains Lanan. Examples of everything we are trying to do."
This the Around the Corner Club this type ofinvolvement include 
certainly has accomplished. With an the musical chairs and beach party The Around the Corner Club is 
average oftwo social events a week, events last semester. providing many opportunities for 
the club has been a forerunner in students to get involved. Willis 
campus activity. Lanan and Willis said that they states, "Everyone is always com­
Its unique name results from the feel that "unfortunately the idea of plaining about social life. Here we club's lack ofa specific meeting the Around the Corner Club just are, providing students with a place. "Students have to keep hasn't come across yet." Even chance to create their own ac­checking around to find out where though attendance to events has tivities, and we suffer from a lack of an event is taking place," explains been substantial, "they still lack a feedback. It seems we must be Lanan, "one night it might be at total student response." losing a lot ofgreat ideas. We really Stepan, the next, Alumni-Senior just want people to know who and Club. A new event is always just "I think people are contused not what the Around the Corner Club around the corner." only 'about who we are and what we really is. Then they have to take it 
The present name, however, is do but also what kind ofgroup we from there." 
··Jt. 
The Ol!lllc-rver Hannes Hackt'r 
Notre Dame students enjoy themselves at the Undergad Night sponsored by the Around the Corner club 
New club in Lafortune will be the place to go 
J. CHRISTOPHER MURPHY 
features writer 
F 
un, good times, lots ofdancing management ofthe club. Al:cording The ballroom on the seconJ floor sound. It will also contain facilities an degant" tacility. and free beer are just around the to Joni Neal, the student activities ofLaFortune is being completl:"'y for disc jockeys and movie projec­corner!! Well, everything except director and chairman ofthe renovated. The upper vault ceihng tion. The entire project is the "baby" the free beer anyway. As the first Around the Corner Club, a name will be painted bright royal blue ofChris Nye, ofCole Associates, in non-alcholic nightclub on campus has yet to be chosen. "Imposter" is and the lower vault will be done in In the north hallway a non­conjunction with with the Student opens in LaFortune in just a few one proposal which seems to have pale gray. The walls will be warm alchoholic bar is being constructed. Activities Office and the Around the weeks, students will begin to forget strong support, representing "non­gray and the conice white with gray Refreshments and deli sandwiches Corner Club. that beer and liquor were once a alchoholic night club atmosphere." accents. The carpeting will be char­will be served by University Food prerequisite for having a good time. coal black. The center ofthe room Services. Though no colors for the Volunteers are needed to help The Around the Corner Club is The Club hopes to establish itself is being transformed into a floating, room have been chosen, the bar plan events for the rest ofthis year renovating Chataqua Ballroom into as a consistent contributer to the walnut and oak patterned dance will maintain the night club atmo­and next year. Applications for the tn place to be. Notre Dame/Saint Mary's social life floor with sunken lighting. Strip sphere. The bar is made ofoak with manager positions should be 
for years to come. They are plan­lights will also be installed around a panelled front and brass rails. available by mid-February so that 
As the Around the Corner Club is ning a weekly calendar ofprograms the perimeters ofthe dance floor as positions can be filled by spring 
transformed from a social commit­which could possibly include: well as the raised terraces and stage. Though it has not been finalized break. Positions for student 
tee to a night club, most ofit's func­talent night, margarita night, and yet, butjoni Neal and Chris Nye are managers will be open in the fol­
tions will be geared towards this Irish Mania. The club will be open An intermediate floor is being hoping for black tables and black lowing areas: general management, 
facility. The club will continue to seven nights a week, but will be free . built above what is now the interna­and charcoal tweed couches and re11avations, marketing, program­
co-sponsor campus wide programs for private reservations, open tional students office. This will be chairs. A quiet lounge will be ming, food and beverage soliciting. 
TheAro 
with other organizations, but 80 dances by disc jockeys and bands, the electronics control booth for located on the south end of the club 
J.-mce Wi 
percent of time and funds will go and possibly video dances on nights the ballroom. controlling the and will be accessible to the main The hopeful opening of the club 
towards the programming and that are not theme nights. ceiling, floor and stage lijZhting and area. Neal and Nye hope to devdop is February 1 7,1986. 

February 4, 1986 -page 8-· 
Behind the scenes at the tenth Keenan Revue 
nd the Corner club staff(from left, Theresa Dia1. Rill Lytle, Jodie Cantwell, lis, 'ohn Rubino, Janet Grojean ""rf Tom rtrter1 stand amongst the construction ofthe new club on the s.·nmc: 'loor ofLaFor .. me 
CATHERINE COFFEY 
assistant features editor 
s the lights dimmed and the 
curtains came down on the 
1985 Keenan Revue, the minds of 
juniors Mike Sweeney and Steve 
Thomas were abuzz with activity. 
Why? Because they have the 
awesome responsibility ofproduc­
ing and directing the 1986 Keenan 
Revue, an annual production high­
lighting the many talents ofKeenan 
Hall's residents. 
Along with a technical crew of 
approximately 25 people, a makeup 
crew of 15, and hundreds of Keenan 
performers, these two are respon­
sible for putting it all together. 
"We started last year with simple 
things like reserving the 
auditorium. Then Mike and I wrote 
over the summer about ideas we 
had. This past week we auditioned 
skits," said director Steve Thomas 
sleepily. 
"The ratio of the time I've spent 
on The Keenan Revue to the time 
I've spent on homework is about 
100 to 1," Bill Boyle, assistant direc­
tor and hall president said of the 
two weeks before the Revue. 
And that's not even considering 
the time and effort put in by the rest 
of Keenan Hall residents. This year, 
1 12 acts auditioned, the most ever 
in the Revue's history. Only 41 acts 
were left after the seven member 
board, composed ofthe director, 
producer, their assistants, and the 
head writer, Bob Kaemmerlen, had 
made their final cuts last Sunday. 
In reference to this year's acts, 
Thomas said, "We were looking for 
originality and the ability to hit on 
topics that have never been 
touched before. We looked at some 
things we thought were done well, 
and we thought, this is a Keenan 
joke,and it's good, but not 
everyone's going to understand it. 
So we were trying to appeal to 
everyone." 
Of the 41, roughly 14 are musi­cal, which is about the same ratio as last year's show. Only a few ofthe skits are based on classical talent, and the rest are humorous skits, poking fun at Du Lac, the ad­ministration, and various aspects of life at Notre Dame. 
"I think this year's Revue is spe­cial because it's the tenth annual show, because we have original music, because we had 112 skits audition and last year we had only 
75. The general quality of the show has risen. What we've got is first rate stuff,"Thomas said. 
According to Mike Sweeney, the Revue's producer, about 95 percent of Keenan Hall residents participate in some way in the show. 
"We always have a few skits that are open to anyone who wants to get in. They are primarily for people who really want to be in it, but who were cut," he said. 
Boyle agrees, adding "Because of the time limitations of the show nobody has as much time as they'd like. But I think we represented everybody -at least we tried our best." 
And if a resident is too shy for the bright lights of the stage, he can always work on set design, produc­tion, or a number ofother commit­tees. 
Matt Snyder, a sophomore from Creve Coeur, Missouri, is the technical director for this year's show. Called the "unsung hero" by Boyle because ofhis tremendous contributions to set design, sound and lighting, he is the "man with the headphones" bt>hind the scenery. Mo~t ~!"rlt"nf'i howt"Vt"r havt" al­rt:ady sampled his creativity, for he is in oart re~ponsible for the ;:,u:ve Martin-esque arrow protruding 
from two walls of Keenan. Program 
Director Chris Cooke, a junior 
business major, helped engineer the 
stunt, which appeared outside 
Keenan last week. The arrow wasn't 
needed to create enthusiam, 
however, because the residents are 
already ecstatic. 
"This is the most excitement the 
dorm has seen all year," said sop­
homore business major Frank 
Publicover. 
The dorm also doesn't need the 
publicity. 
Tickets to the Revue are highly 
prized, as evidenced by yesterday's 
long lines which wound all the way 
around the basketball arena at the 
ACC, where tickets were dis­
tributed. Keenan residents don't 
have to walt in line. Each receives 
four tickets that they can give to 
anyone. Almost every resident has 
an interesting story to tell about 
what people will do to get these 
tickets. 
"A good buddy of mine says that 
if I give him tickets to the Revue, 
he'll do my entire semester's work 
in photography class for me," 
confided one rt"sident who wishes 
to remain ano1:-ymous. 
"Every year gtrls just roam the 
dorm in packs, going from door to 
door looking for extra tickets," said 
seniorjeffChou."lfsomeone has 
extra tickets, they make a deal. 
She'll go out with him, but in return 
she gets a Keenan Revue ticket." 
The men with all the tickets are 
ticket managers John LaGorio, a 
senior engineering major, and Scott 
Fabian, a junior business major. 
According to LaGorio, all 4050 
tickets are accounted for, every 
one. Have people bothered him for 
extra tickets? 
"I have had a call from an old 
friend," LaGorio admits. "It's really 
funny what people will do for tick· 
ets. Keenan's phone numbers are all 
in ~uccession by rooms. Sometimes 
you'll hear one phone ring. And if 
no one answers it, you'll hear the 
phone across the hall ring. You can 
hear the ringing continue all the 
way down the hall until somebody 
answers his phone and says, ~Sorry 
I'm out of tickets'." 
Thomas also had a story to relate. 
"One girl called today from Saint Mary's and asked me if I could at­tend a formal over there. I said probably. She said 'By the way, do you have any extra Revue tickets?' When I said no, she said, 'Well I'm not sure if this formal thing is going to work out. I'll get back to you on it." 
Boyle jokingly insinuates that a few groups are given special con­sideration. 
"Moreau Seminary put in are­quest for fifty. Since we'd like to keep up our relations with God, we're looking into granting them the tickets." 
Despite God and wandering women, most Keenanites even­tually give their tickets to close friends, relatives or girlfriends. 
"I gave one ofmy tickets to a girl I went out with last semester, one to a girl I'm seeing this semester, one to a friend of mine in Holy Cross, and one to my sister," said Tim Kerper, a junior from Birmin­gham, Alabama. 
The majority oftickets go to non-Keenan Notre Dame students. Saint Mary's also gets a hearty share, receiving about 25 percent. Be­cause Keenan raises no capital on ticket sales, they must turn to other forms offinancing to cover such production costs as lighting, sets, 
ticket printing, and the four experts 
hired from O'Laughlin Auditorium 
who help out the technical 
manager. 
Money is generated through 
fundraisers, such as T-shirt and hat 
sales and, most importantly, dona· 
tions. Although local businesses 
often help out by printing material 
for free and lending equipment, the 
show still relies the heaviest on 
donations collected immediately 
after the show.Ifevery person who 
attended the show contributed 3 7 
cents, it would cover all the ex· 
penses incurred. 
"We rely very heavily on post­
performance donations. Ifthis 
year's donations aren't up to par, 
there might not be a 1987 Keenan 
Revue,"Boyle said. 
The fact that Saint Mary's doesn't 
charge Keenan for the actual use of 
the Auditorium also helps. 
"The use of O'Laughlin is Saint 
Mary's contribution to the Revue," 
said Sweeney. 
That's about the only contribu­
tion Saint Mary's could make, since 
only Keenan members have been 
permitted to perform in the ten 
years the Revue has existed. The ­
first perlormance was conducted 
in the basement of Keenan Hall. 
Originally the idea ofResident 
Assistants Rick Thomas, now a 
member ofChicago's Second City, 
and Steve Lentz, the show was 
created to brighten up the mid· 
winter slump most students ex­
perienced and as an alternative to 
the typical party. 
"I think the show is so popular 
because people like to go and laugh 
at themselves. Every year after the 
show, we get complaints from 
people because they weren't 
abused enough. I remember Walsh 
Hall complained a couple ofyears 
ago that there weren't enough 
Walsh jokes in the Revue,"said 
Sweeney. 
As audiences grew with the show's popularity the Revue from the basement to Washington Hall and finally to O'Laughlin Auditorium, the largest auditorium with the biggest audience capacity of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Father Richard Conyures, the rector of Keenan during the initial years of the Revue, was also in· strumental in the production ofthe first Revues. 
"Without him The Keenan Revue would never have lasted," Sweeney said of Conyures. "It was important to him to involve the Keenanites in a non-drinking function. Another important point is that the Revue is a gift to the entire University." 
While Thomas and Lentz were seniors and left the dorm the same year ofthe first Revue, Conyures remained the rector for several years, supporting students who participated in the show's produc­tion, but never ~oing their work for them. 
"He made sure it was always a student show,"Sweeney said, "and Steve and I are defintely committed to this also. 
And now, ten years later, the Revue is in its final stages. The programs are running offthe presses, technicians are testing their equipment set desi~ners are adding the finish· llJ.! toucht>s..tnd the performers are ..,~.; tshing thetr acts. All this for the three performances this Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30p.m. 
"The thing I like the most about the Revue," said Thomas,"is seeing it come from nothing and within three days, grow into a show." 
And what a show it will be. 
The Obserwr Tuesday, February 4, 1986-page 10 
Hockey
Sports Briefs 
continuedjrompage 16 
The ND Rugby Club will hold an organizational meeting tonightat 7:30 in the LaFortune Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend, and no experience is necessary. For more in­formation call Phil Sheridan at :i88-4761. ·The Obseroer 
Men's and Women's indoor soccer 
tournaments will be held by the NVA. Rosters must include a mini· mum ofeight players and should be turned in with a J5 entry fee by tomorrow. For more information call the NVA. · The Observer 
The ND field hockey team will hold a meeting 
Thursday at 5:30 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. All members of the 1985 team and any new prospects should attend. Members also are reminded to come dressed to participate. For more information call Head Coach jill Lindenfeld at 239-6281. ·The Obseroer 
Body FatTesting will be offered by NVA to the first 75 people free ofcharge today at 6: I 5 p.m. · The Obseroer 
The ND-Dayton men's basketball 
game will be the topic tonight on "Speaking of Sports" at I 0 
p.m. on WVFI, AM-64. Usteners may phone in their questions or comments by calling hosts Pete Pranica and Rudy Brandl at 239· 6400. · The Obseroer 
Classifieds 
The ND /SMC women's golf team will be videotaping indoors tomorrow as scheduled. Members are reminded also that there will be a meeting Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more information call Laura Gleason at 283·3351. ·The Obseroer 
A campus tug-of-war contest is being or­
ganized by the ND Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to assemble teams. For more information call Kevin Lennon at 239· 6440. ·The Obseroer 
Moonlight cross country skiing will be of­
fered by the NVA on Thursday from 7 p.m.-10 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Anyone interested may rent skis at a cost of Sl at the Rockne Golf Shop. For more information call NVA. ·The Obseroer 
An interhall traCk meet will be held by the NVA 
on Wednesday, Feb..I9. For more information call NVA. ·The Obser­ver 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVA at 239-5IOO. ·The Obseroer 
and scored with only six seconds remaining in the period. 
The Irish came out strong in the third period. The team managed to take twice as many shots on goal as the Foresters, but Lake Forest managed to get twice as many goals. In the period, Lake Forest scored two goals to make the final score 6-3. 
Notre Dame's first loss over the weekend came Friday night at Lake Forest. The game was close throug­hout as the Foresters did not ice the game until a late empty net goal. Tom Mooney and Brian Montgomery both contributed goals in the losing effort. Lake Forest won the game 4-2. Smith felt that the defensive effort this weekend was better than in previous weeks. 
"The defensemen played quite well this weekend," said Smith."The team as a whole played well; we just couldn't put the puck in the net. We beat the daylights out of the plexiglass though." 
This upcoming weekend, the Irish travel to play Army on Friday and Saturday nights. Smith is hoping the team will be able to improve its luck against the Cadets. 
71••· llhsern•r :\otrt· l>drnt· otfitl' lot dl<'<l on tht· thoro tloor or· I.JI·on um· ~llOUl'nl <l'nll'r. d<<<'PI' <ld"otint d<hnt""'lt !rom'! d m unlll t p m \lon<.ld\ throu~th ho<.ld\ lht• llh.wrr·er ~doni \tan·, otfitt'. lotdll'<.l on tht· thor<.! tloor of lld)t)tdr <ollt')tl' <t·nrn d<<TPI' tld"otinh from 1.! ~0 p m unto! ~ p m \ton Ud\ thou~th I· nod\ I lt'd<.llom· tor nt·xt Od\ tld,'lfinl' ;, ~ p m .\II tld"olkc.J, mu't ht· prt'pdod. l'lthn 111 pt·r">n or h' nuol < hdf)tl' o' I o n·nr-pn fiH' chdrd< tn' n<.la\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4062 
$1 ()-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulara! 
Noquotul Sincerely interested rush aelf·addressed envelope: Success, POBox 470CDD, WoodStock, ll60098. 
TYPING 
CALLCHRII 
234-8117. 
At1antlon: 11uclanta DolorM Francia Typing lervlce haea ph-change 277-3131 
LOST/FOUND' I 
If you accidentally took my long, black, wool coat on Sat. night at the O.C. party on Mane, could you pi-return it? I am freezing! The tic lac. are yours but I realy need my I.D. and coat backl3738 
LOST: WOMAN'S NO RING WITH BLUE STONE AND INSIDE INSCRIPTION: LEA 83 CAU JOANN AT 3878. 
LOBT 
ONE PA!It OF PltEICit!PT!ON 
GLAUEI 
1wu riding In the backseat of your blue 
2-door at 10:30 ·am on Monday the 27th. 
You drove me down NO Ave and let me off 
at the clrde.lleh my g'-lnyour back· 
-t. If you find them can you bring them 
to T ex at the South Dining Hal. 
LOBT: 18n cow11oy hat wt1h .chalob lland In dining hall. C8l Jim 1310. 
leal MONEY,BANKING & FINANCIAL MARKETS BOOK in Buainaa building name and addr-are on the lnaide cover; call John at1024 
LOST: Pair of Brown Glovea In Gym 4 of the ACC on Tuesday, Jan. 28. PtMse call BOB at 12481ffound, My hand& ere freez· ingl 
LOST: A PAIR OF LONG.RED GLOVES IN WASHINGTON HALL DURING FAT· HER BI..ANTZ'S 10:10 HISTORY CLASS. IF FOUND, CALL KAY AT3208. 
LOST:1 BLUE HALF SIZED NOTEBOOK JOURNAL CONTAINED VERY PER· SONAL INFORMATION PLEASE RETURN IF FOUND TO SAWE 284­5012 
I am iratal Thia ialhe third time In a week that the honeat people of Notre Dame have helped my belonginga disappear. If you walked off with the red Kangol cap I lehin 1140'Shag, pi-call meat3564. It wu a Chriatmu present and I'm pretty fond of it. Pleaae show some decency and reaffirm my IIIith in the Christianity of this school. 
LOST: Okay, !fila lan'1 funny anymore. illy HP-11C calculator loa! In the Math Bldg. laat --Ia atll rnlaalng. Could whoav• 11M It pleMa return Itto Loat 1 Found on tha 2nd fir. LaFortune? 
STOLEN : My black book bag was taken from the South Dining Hall S during Thu...-y's lunch ( 1 /30). I saw the person who acted as if he wu refiNing the paper in the copying machine, and am sure I wiD be able to identify his picture In the AD· MINISTRATION FILES. So if your the guy who thought his CRIME was perfect; THINK AGAIN and come to your senaes. Return the bag to illllaat position near the copier or aoon pay the consequences. 
LOST: '67 N.D. CLASS RING; IN FRONT OF S. DINING HALL, 1/30/86: CALL STEVE AT 3062: REWARD!!! 
found:: one bfaack book bag, in the south dining hall at closing time, thul'lday night behind the copier. Calf 234·712t to claim. 
LOST: black and white herringbone coat at Senior Bar Thursday night. If found, please caJI288·5092. 
FOUND: BASKETBALL TICKETS, 
A.C.C. 29, JAN. 1986. IDENTIFY THEM AND THEY'RE YOURS. CAU DANIEL AT1026. 
LOST: Last Tueadaay I leal a thick gold chain bracelet. It waa a graduation gift, pi-call lisa • 3098 If you have any in­formation. 
Loet: Black Swatch In snow outaide Gate 3 of ACC 1811 Tues. 1/28.11 wubuckled at the time, unf01'1Unately not around my wriat. Pleaae call-l've been late ever since. Thanklo alot, Brian AT4335. 
LOST: Baaketbalf tickets; Probably loetln South Dining on Saturday Feb. 1. The ticketiaSectionB; Row9; Seat15. Pleaae call Chip at2704 with any information. 
LOBT OLIVE GltEEN JACKET Mlatal<· ingty taken from Senior Bar Coat Rake Saturday Night, January 25. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE,.REWARD, NO QUESTIONS ASKED, Calf Tim 2004,417 Stanford Hal. 
Loat: A pair of prncrlption eyegtasaea in a case with a picture of a kitten on the case. It wu loa! Saturday night between W*ll and Zshm. Calf Nicole 2677. 
LOST: silver TIMEX watch. L081 around Senior Bar or Campus View on Feb. 1. R~ If found. Calf Pat at 3165. 
LOST: A thick, chain-linked gold bracelet with a large claap. It wu leal Friday, Jan. 17th. It hu incredible aentimentat value and cannot be replaced. If you have any information and can identify it, please caR Karen at1884. Thank you. 
FOR RENT 
LARGE FOUR-BEOROOM HOME WILL ACCOMMODATE FIVE ITUDENTI. COIIPLETELY FURNISHED. C~ NANCY HUMBARGER 234-1364. 
WANTED 
Ride needed to Wabash College (Crawlorctavine, IN) or Purdue University. Weekend of Feb.14·16 Will share coslll. Cindy 2687 
call joann, 3878 
Cheap modem adaptable to IBM. What do you have? Call 5337 8·12/1·5 or 267· 8881 aher 5:30. 
Helplla anybody going to Dayton for NO. UD game Wed and coming back Thurs? I need paper brought back fer Fri. ctasa. HELP!! call Bob, 277-5817. 
Need ride to PENN STATE 2/13-16 cat! Corinne 1292 
RIDE WANTED: Anywhere East on Toll Road! Toledo, Cleveland, Ohio exit 7 preferable. Feb.7-9,or 14·16. Will share expenaes! Call Brad AT 4022 
Need Riders To louisville, Ky For 2fl-2/9 cat! Denise 284·4368 
Riders Needed To Iowa City 2fl·2/9 Call Chris 284-4401 
FOR SALE 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1·312·742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
CLEAV,ERIE,TOLEDO Train Tix 4Saf&. ·Way)Brian4335 
TICKETS 
HI. My name is JOHN. I have 7 tickets to the KEENAN REVUE but I have no friends to give them to. If you would like to be my friend and would Hke my precious REVUE TICKETS pi-give me a call at 3323. Females need only apply. 
HELP: I AM STUCK IN "THE FRANCHISE'S" DOGHOUSE AND MUST ESCAPE. I HAVE 2 KEENAN REVUE TIX FOR THURSDAY NIGHT AND NEED TO EX· CHANGE THEM FOR 2 ON FRIDAY NIGHT. IF YOU CAN HELP ME ESCAPE, PLEASE CALL MIKE AT 2292. 
PERSONALS 
···~·y-;,;;..;~~i·;;;~Qi~;·;;g;;-;;i~;·;;;;;;;: 
Magic is so much atronger than steel/ 
• Richard Bach, The Bridge Acroaa Forav• 
Before the song all music came like muted, empty octaves begging a com­poser's pen. The notes cried silentiy for paper staves and kept their sound in theory only. 
• Calvin Miller, 
Pun: It's not ohen my sister takes me to lunch ... thank you. 
T.B. 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? Call 234..Q363. 24-hr. hotline, counseling & free pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 IILOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SUMMER SERVICE PROJECTS ap· pUcationa deadline is February 3. More info at Center for Social Concerns. 
"We Can Make You Laugh" on Febuary 8 ff not YOU win $25 
"Wa can Make You Laugh" comedy show Febuary 8, 8:00 pm Waahington Hall. $2 
Loving C81hollc couple •1118 to adopt an Infant. Hyou know of any-who Ia conalclarlng placing a child for adop­tion, plaaa call collact 17) 367·3379 after7p.m. 
DAVE FLANAGAN FORUMOC 
SMvND SUMMER PROGRAM~ LONDON, IRELAND, SCOTLAND, PARIS (MAY 21· JUNE 20). PARIS, GERMANY, SWITZ, ROME (JUNE 15­JULY 14). COURSES IN BIO, BUEC, HIST, MUSIC, SOC, ITALIAN. MEETING FEB 17,7:00 AM 348 MADELEVA. FOR INFO CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK 284· 4460 OR 272·3726. 
S.M.C. REMEMBER A.A. APPRECIA· 
TIONDAYI THUR.FEB.6 
THArsWHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR 
Hungry? cat! YEUOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: 5pm-12am Monday· Thurlday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
WANNA MAKE MY VALENTINE'I DAY (-youra too)???·Df 
1'*'-1 In tutoring a Iouth Bend grada-achool or hiF-achoollltuclant? Neighborhood Study Help Program hu many apollo in a number of schoota and 
canton. cat! Ma1ha.........., at3114. 
Pi.ArvPus:..·;;APPv""'iiii;;...ii"""i''t;;lisr 
SAY,TtiE PAST 3 MONTHS HAVE BEEN INTERESTING, BUT FUN. MR. ROSCO SAYS "VERY NICE" 
SMC Sexuality Education Council • Body Maintenance Female Hygiene, Gynecological Exam, Breast Set! Exam Wednesday, February 5, 7:00pm Stapleton lounge, 1'\~oria Chelmenlak, Director of Health Serv>ces 
NOVENA TO ST. JUDE 0 Holy St. Jude, AposUe and Martyre, great in virtue and rich in mir•cles, near Kinaman of Jesus Christ, Faithful Inter· ceaaor of all who invoke your special patronage in time of need, to you I have recourse from the depth of my heart and humbly beg to who God hu given such great power to come to my present urgent position. In return, I promise to make your name known and cause you to be invoked 
Say Three Our Fathers, three Hail Mary's, three Gloria'a. St. Jude pray for ua and all who invoke your aid. Amen. Publication must be promised. This novena has never tailed. Sey for 9 con· secutive days. 
SEX Well, we didn't have any but we had dancing we had singing we had partying we had agreat time and best of all we had YOU to make it THE SOCIAL EVENT OF NORTH QUAD 
thanks for coming HUGS AND KISSES, 77 and the TENNIS PLAYER 
Recent inductees to N.D. Burger Hall Of Fame include Karen, Joan. and Patty Burger of Wallh Halt. Congratulations from a longtime burger connoissaur. 
I LOST MY SANITY IN FARLEY 
I lost something better ... 
WANT TO SEU your old Eng. Econ. book? Call Mike 3380 
AND HOW IS GWEN DOL YNNE TODAY?????? 
Always an usher, never a groom. 
Sometimes I wiah I could eat Blistex .... 
ATIENTION CHICKS!If Mike "Chick· Magnet" Fieweger turna 20 today. Don't fight the magnetism-experience illl elctrifyng thrill-be drawn to 419 St. Ed's and wish him a Happy Birthday!!! 
MIKEY MIKEY MIKEY MIKEY FEB. 8 FEB. 8 FEB.6 
Bassil! wants to join/start rock band Call Tom1156 
OJ, VDYA 
D. 
Memories ... A red roee; "cartrouble"; cur· !era; sitting aide by side ; Chablla; French onion soup; tamlly,God,frlenda(not nec~ly In that order); Ranch Dr-· ing; a toast; Jumbo Prana; chocolate mint cheeaecake; Juat Once; JD; Koof..aid; smllel; Play it Sam; Aa Time Goes By; They wore gray,you wore blue; more Kool·aid; Here's Looking at You Kid; Round up the uauaJ suspects; MORE Koof..aid; more smiles; Imagine; Hogan's Heroea; William Jenninga Bryant; We all know how p.;nfulthat can be; EUzabeth A. Seton (staned the first catholic grades· chool); quotes; a hug; sweet dreams . WHAT A LADYII· WHAT A NIGHTII ATIENTION ALL JUNIORS!!! Tonight (Tues. Feb. 4) iathe 181t night to reserve table seating with your ITiendl for the JPW PRESIDENT'S DINNER. Bring max. of 6 J.D.'s to basement of Lafortune between 7·9pm tonight!> (seetoday'sadfortunher details!) . 
THE LONDON CLUB Weekly meetings Sunday nighla • real tate. Look tor minutes to be published right here. 
Art Trads Dropouta 
Co-Founders 
/sat on the Grotto bench, collecting snow atop my dome, benumbed and be-..·ed by my coloual overpowering lack ol knowledge. 01 philosophy, a philosophy of Nle, of why we're hen~. 
(Appologiea to J. Kiri<wood) 
SUSPECTS INVOLVED IN REVENGE IN ROME BLACKMAIL, SEX, LARCENY, DECEIT, MURDER· RED,RED WINE,MURDER,FRIENDS HAL(FRANK);MAIN GOAL IN LIFE WAS ATIAINING MONEY AND POWER, BUT,ALAS,HE LEFT HIS WALLET MELINDA (SUE);WAS ALL TOO EAGER,AND WAS CAUGHT IN A VERY PRONE POSITION JEFF (PAUL);NOT AS INNOCENT AS HE SEEMED, HE TIPPED OFF THE KILLER,AS WEU AS HIS MOTHER ANNIE(KRIST A);INNOCENT BRAT GOT WHAT SHE DESERVED,AND DROVE THE PORCELAIN BUS THE MORNING AFTER DOROTHY(TINA);MODEL MOT· HER AND WIFE-WHO COULD HAVE KNOWN THE REALMS OF HER TOR· RID PAST? PETER (ERIC);VENGEFUL, DECEITFUL, COMPETITIVE-THE KIL· LER UNTIL WE MEET AGAIN·TRUST NO ONE! YOUR HOSTESSES 
MERKY GIROUX You ARE The Brady Bunch Trivia Queen You Rule Regina Hall love From Your Faithful Subjects Shirley & Laurie Panridge PS: The Partridgea Are Next! 
.
................................................................ 
To The "Morally Responsible" Guys That Helped U1 Out Fri. Night. Thanks! We Couldn'T Have Made It Without You. Mary Jane & Donna 
MIKE BENDER 425 STANFORD YOU'RE NOT AS COOL AS YOU THINK YOU ARE B.S. 
BOB HODGE THE RAMBO-ETTES ARE LURKING IN THE SHADOWS. B.S. 
THE 4 STOOGES IN 113 MORRISSEY: WATCH OUT FOR MARSHMALLOW MANIA WHEN YOU'RE UNDER THE TABLE FRIDAY! B.S. 
Yea, you guessed ill The Tuesday per· sonaJ has made its return. Greetings to: Brian, Pee, Jim, T, Nork, P.G.(IIOI'I"fl), Mr. Great Watt, K.K., Kevin, The Creature, That cute guy with the dimples, (what's hia name?), The PC'a, Clem, Denny, and 1811 but not leaat; Push-me-Pull-me, (llliu, the Wise Korean). Looking forward to a great semeller, but guys, would you at leaat give me a WARNING before you storm the ststion next time?llove, Duz. 
Perry, Yes It Wu 3:30A.M. And I Did Ask You To The Formal! See You In Louia­viHei!Jeny 
·········~······················································ 
To Lumpy, Sam, little Man, Big Man: Thanks For Making My 21 II So Much Fun!LoveMo 
I 
Four Winde Group for Theatre preaenla Wilde's The Importance of Being Earnest Feb. 13, 14, 15, Science Hall Octorium, Bethel College, 7:45p.m. $5foraduhs, $4 for studenla. Reservations: 25!HI511 

The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 1 1 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
~ SPRIN6 BREAI<p~esDAVTONA BEACH 
--. ~ #~ featuring the famous CARRIAGE HOUSE HOTEL 
\/
PRICE· 
I\ 
Hotel only, $129 Hotel &bus transportation, $209 

$PRINS BREAI< IN 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
Right on the beach * RiRhl in the middle ol the $#,;p--­
ICE~ 
Hotel only, $225 To Sign Up Hotel & Transportation, $309 Stop By The Student Activities Board Offic Or For More Info Call 239-7757 Please bring checks tQ the Ticket Stub In the basement Qf LaFQrtune. 11:30-4:30 
Flyer's Froese gets nod tonight in NHL star game 
A.slioclatcd PI'C!I8 
HARTFORD · For a good part of his National Hockey League career, Bob Froese has been a No. 2 goaltender. 
But he doesn't mind being a backup for tonight's NUL All-Star Game. 
"I feel a lot more comfortable than being a starter in this situation," the Philadelphia Flyers' goalie said yes­terday as he prepared for the NHL's 38th showcase game at the Hartford Civic Center. 
Froese wa..~ an alternate pick by Mike Keenan, the Flyers' coach who will be in charge of the Wales Con­ference. 
Mario Gosselin of the Quebec Nordiques won the starting goaltender spot for the Wales by default. fie was the second leading vote-getter in the balloting by fans to Pelle Lindbergh, the Flyers' goalie who was killed in an auto accident last November. 
"It was a tough mental adjustment to go from No. 2 to a job that I had competed for for so long," Froese said. "But Mike Keenan helped me make the adjustment. He told me that the shadow of Pelle would al­ways be there, and not to be afraid to make mistakes." 
When he first took over the No. 1 
job, however, Froese put a lot of 
pressure on himself. 
"I thought I had to stop every shot," he said. "I thought I had to be Bob Froese and Pelle Lindbergh both. I took too much on my own shoulders." 
Froese quickly established him­self a..~ one of the NUL's top goalies this season. At the All-Star break, he 
.--· 
~ ~ 
,
.. , 
-• 
. .• • • 
APPhoro 
Former Philadelphia Flyers goaltender Pelle Lindbergh mal' be gone but be bas not been forgotten by NHL fans. Fans voted the former star who died last November in a tragic auto accident as the starting goaltender for tonight's NHL All-Star game in Hartford, Conn. Lindbergh's former teammate, Bob Froese, will take Lindbergh'splace on the squad. Details oftonight'sgame appearat left. 
was among the league leaders in Among the Oiler starter~ an· goals-against average with 2.70 and center Wayne Gretzky, right wing had posted a 16-9-1 record and Jari Kurri, left wing Glenn Anderson, three shutouts. defenseman Paul Coffey and 
While not on the ballots, Froese goaltender Grant Fuhr. The only wound up with 5,000 write-in votes non-Oiler in the starting lineup is from the fans, who voted in this defenseman Doug Wilson of the event for the first time. fie was hap­Chicago Black Hawks. pier, however, about the 134,982 The Oilers also have four other votes that Lindbergh got. players on the 20-man roster. 
SMC fencers move up with tourney showing 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's fencing team competed in the Notre Dame tournament on Sunday and came away with a 3-2 record for the day while boosting its overall record to 6-5 on the season. 
"A good team effort has allowed us to look stronger earlier this year 
. than last year," said Head Coach Mike Weeks. "There has been an overall improvement which con­tributes to individual as well as team progress." 
Saint Mary's first two victories came against Michigan Dearborn ( 10-6 ), and Eastern Michigan ( 12­4 ). Captain Mary Beth Proost scored a 2-1 and a 1-2 record, while Ann Raney posted 2-1 and 3-0 decisions. Teammate Becca Barnett dominated with a 4-0 and a 3·1 slate, and Laura Harris had a 1· 3 and 3-1 record. Mary Fran Wilkin displayed strong skills over her opponent with identi· cal scores of 1-0. To close out the bouts, Shannon Maughan scored 0-1 and 1-0 decions. 
With its momentum increasing, Saint Mary's then faced defending NCAA champions Wayne State. Each member demonstrated her improv­ing skills, as was evident by their 9-7 loss. Proost, Raney and Barnett came away with 2-2 decisions, followed by the 1-2 slate ofLaura Harris. 
At this point in the meet, the Belles were showing great op­timism. 
"The team rose to the competi· tion (over the weekend)by doing so well," said Wilkin. " This was the closest the team had ever come to Wayne State. It was a great feeling." 
"At this point," noted Weeks, "with two weeks to go, the team is fencing well." 
A two hour layover could have had an effect on the team's perfor­mance against Detroit. Detroit dominated the match, 11-5. Proost fell to her opponent 1-3, while both Raney and Barnett scored 2-2 deci· sions. These were followed by Har­ris with a 0-4 slate. 
Barnett remained optimistic after the loss. 
"The team is more competitive this year and shows potential for more improvement," she stated. 
The final bout ofthe day ended on the up beat for Saint Mary's. Tri State University fell victim to an 11-5 decision. Proost and Barnett went undefeated in this match with scores of 4-0 and 2-0. Raney finished with a 2-1 decision to end the day with a most satisfying individual record. 
Losses were handed to both Har­ris, 0-2, and Maughan, 0-1, while Wilkin maintained a 1-1 record. 
"The team was able to bounce back after the loss to Detroit," Weeks said. "I was very pleased with the way we fenced because we received a solid team effort. 
"Competition at all the meets has been pretty even, and it gives the team a chance to face a variety ofop· ponents. Also, it was great to have the support of all those who at· tended the meet. It is important to the fencers since it is their only home competition." 
Next weekend wiU hopefully con­tinue to display the improvement of the Saint Mary's fencers as they travel to Chicago to meet with Northwestern, Ohio State, Case Western, Purdue and Lawrence. 

~---. ·---~~-----~-~ 
The Observer 
No. Carolina remains atop poll; Irish hold on to 14th position in list 
Aleociated Press 1,091 points, 29 more than No. 4 Louisiana State, Louisville, Texas-El 
Duke, 20-2. Paso and Richmond. 
North Carolina, which suffered its Oklahoma, 20-1, moved from Western Kentucky, 17-3 and first defeat of the season last week, sixth to fifth, followed by Kansas, 20-leaders in the Sun Belt Conference remained atop The Associated Press' 3, which had been fourth but suf­race, and Alabama, 15-4 and in college basketball poll, although the fered a 77-74 loss at Iowa State last second place behind Kentucjcy in Tar Heels were not the unamimous week. Michigan, 19-2, jumped from the Southeastern Conference, are choice for the first time in three ninth to seventh with 860 points, 41 both making their first appearance weeks. more than Syracuse, 17-2, which in the Top Twenty this season. 
After winning their first 21 games jumped from its 11th-place ranking Falling from the ranks of the of the season, the Tar Heels fell at last week with a 68-64 victory over ranked were Louisiana State and Virginia 86-73 last Thursday, then St.John's. 
Richmond. beat Clemson 85-67 Saturday. They 
Louisiana State, 16-6, lost three received 58 first-place votes and Nevada-Las Vegas, 21-2, improved games last week -two to ranked 1 1,235 points from the nationwide one place from last week, while St. teams. Then No. 8 Kentucky beat the panel of sportswriters and John's, 20-3 and seventh last week, Tigers on a buzzer shot, 54-52. Geor­broadcasters. rounded out the Top Ten. gia coasted to an easy 92-76 victory Georgia Tech, 17-2, which Georgetown, which defeated over Louisiana State, and the Tigers received three first-place votes and Louisiana State, 7 4-72, on national fell to Georgetown on Sunday. 
1,118 points, moved up one notch television Sunday, led the Second Richmond, which last week made to second, followed by Memphis Ten, followed by Kentucky, Bradley, its first appearance in the Top State, like North Carolina, unbeaten Notre Dame, Virginia Tech, Louis­Twenty since 1954, dropped two of until last week. ville, Texas-El Paso, Indiana, Wes­three games to fall to 17-3. The 
The Tigers, 20-I, lost on the road tern Kentucky and Alabama. Spiders lost to Old Dominion, 62-59, at Virginia Tech, 76-72, on Saturday Last week's Second Ten was and Virginia Tech, 71-67, before and fell one spot in the voting with Syracuse, Georgetown, Bradley, saving the week with a 67-47 victory the only other first-place vote and Notre Dame, Indiana, Virginia Tech, over William & Mary on Saturday. 

API'!Wto 
position atop the AP basketball poll this week despite a loss to Virginia earlier in tbe week. More on the poll appears above. 
Suicide of Holy Cross' Carter leaves friends, students bewildered 
WORCESTER, Mass. -The suicide of Holy Cross football coach Rick Carter has stunned students and faculty at this Jesuit college, where Carter was remembered not only as a winning coach, but someone who cared. 
"Most ofthe team is just shocked," senior quarterback Patrick McCarthy said. "It hadn't really sunk in yesterday afternoon. I'll remem­ber him as a coach and as a friend, someone who played a big part in our lives for four years." 
"He made us winners. He got us to believe," said Steve Raquet, a former Holy Cross lineman who now plays 
with the Montreal Concordes of the 
Canadian Football League. 
Carter, 42, was found dead in his 
home at 8:14 a.m. EST Sunday by his 
son, Nick, a 21-year-old Holy Cross 
student. Worcester County District 
Attorney John). Conte said Carter 
had hanged himself with a belt and 
called the death a suicide. 
Carter's wife, Deanna, had spent the weekend with Carter's seriously ill mother in Kettering, Ohio. 
During his 20 years of college coaching, Carter had a record of 137-58-7 and led the University of Dayton to the NCAA division III championship in 1980 with a 14-0 record. He also had coached at Hanover College and Earlham Col­lege, his alma mater. 
In his five years at Holy Cross, he had a 35-19-2 record, including a 9­1-1 season in 1983, when he was named Division 1-AA coach of the Year. 
It had been a difficult year for Carter. 
Friends said the sudden death of his father last summer hit him hard and said he also had been concerned about his mother's health. 
"That took a great toll on him," Carter's aunt, Frances Johnson, told The Telegram ofWorcester. "He and his father were very, very close. His father was a sports person. They were two ofa kind." 
-·~-------~----­
Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 12 
The Oboe rver /Paul Pahor<OI<y 
Notre Dame's Mark Stevenson reaches out for a basket in last night's Irish victory over Maryland. Details ofthe game appear on page 16. 
faced physical play," continued Phelps. "College basketball is physi­
Irish 
cal this year. Bias seems to get dis­continuedfrom page 16 couraged when he doesn't get the 
ball, and we tried to keep it away staffand players seemed to voice dis­from him." content, however muffied, with the Others felt intensity was the thing officiating. that earned the victory last night. 
"We didn't play very well in the "After the close win against Mar­
·second half," said Terrapin head quette, we knew we couldn't come coach Charles 'Lefty' Driesdl. "We out and play the same way again deserved to lose. Bias gets that tonight," said Irish forward Donald rough treatment all the time, and it's Royal. "We knew we had to have in­too bad. I never comment on the of­tensity for the whole game." ficials. You saw what they did-draw The Irish, now 15-3, travel to your own conclusions." Dayton tomorrow for a game with 
Bias and his teammates also the rival Flyers. This begins a stretch showed frustration with the way of tough contests for Notre Dame, things went. with seven of the last 10 games on 
"Yeah, I was frustrated," said Bias. the road. "I guess they were playing pretty "Now we play seven games away rough and pushing, and I got upset at out of our last 10," said Phelps. times. But I just have to let them beat "We've proved how good we are on me -if I push back I get called. with our record so far. Our last 10 Sure it's frustrating." games will test us, and hopefully 
"I know everyone on the team is tune us up for the NCAA's in March." frustrated with what's been happen­Ulet Nlght'l RHulte
ing lately," said Terrapin guard Keith 
Notre Dame 69, Merylend 62
Gatlin, who finished with only four 
Marylland (62)points and three assists. "We were M FG-A FT·A R F P 

making a run there at the end, and Lewis 24 2-5 1-2 0 2 5 Bias 40 9-12 7-9 6 4 25
then they call (Bias) for the of­
Long 10 0-0 0-0 0 1 0
fensive foul. I just don't know. 
Gatlin 36 2-s o-o 2 1 4 Sometimes I think they're watching Baxter 14 1-1 0-0 0 2 2 him too closely." Johnson 33 6-15 0-2 3 2 12 Massenburg a 1-4 o-o 2 1 2
But the Irish had other ideas. 
Jones 35 6-9 o-o 5 4 12
"Our defensive rebounding and 
200 27·51 11-13 18 17 62 our offensive play were the keys in FG Pet. • .529. FT Pet. -.615. Team the second half," said Phelps. "On rebounds -2. Turnovers -13. Assists -11 
(Bias 5). Technicals-1 (Bias).
defense, we didn't want to let Bias 
Notre Deme (69) 
get started, so we guarded him 
M FG-A FT·A R F P closely all night." Royal 27 2-5 4-7 5 3 8 "We tried to deny Bias in the Dolan 36 3-5 1-1 8 4 7 Kempton 27 1-3 2-2 4 3 4
corners, and in the inside we used 
Rivers 36 9-14 Q-1 2 2 18
weakside help," said Jim Dolan, who 
Stevenson 37 5-8 6-6 1 2 16 spent much of his night trying to Hicks 7Q-OQ-0100 
keep Bias away from the basket. Connor 4 1-1 o-o o 1 2 Barlow 23 5-6 4-4 3 1 14
Phelps defended the officials. 
Voce 3 0-1 o-o o o o
"Both pairs of officials did a good 
200 2&-43 17-21 24 16 69 job," he said. "They called what they FG Pet. .605. FT Pet. -.810. Team 
saw in the first half, and they did the rebounds -2. Turnovers -17. Assists -15 (Rivers 5). Technicals-none.
same in the second half. Don't think 
Halftime-Notre Dame 33, Maryland 33. Of­
the officials had anything to do with 
ficials-Jim Reinebold, Bill Sorukas (both IH­the outcome. SAA), Paul Calvan, Don Shea, Danny Booker "This isn't the first time Bias has (all SEC). A -11 ,345. 

The Proof 
fs fn 
the Taste! 
Open Mon•Sat 11 am San4pm 
Plzza-&ndwlche.-&lad. Beer& Wfne 
277-2020 
Located In Boaeland (Next to Randalia) 
Ifyou haven't met us yet... 

Queen's Castle & The Knights
Now's the time! 
$5 
student $8.50 comolete 
we're friendly, convenient, good 
cut style yet affordable. 
MINUTES AWAY.FROM CAMPUS
The Varsity Shop 
272-0312 277-1691
Edison Rd. at St Rd 23 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS
277-0057 
now women included tool 
We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning
$6 haircuts 
Open 6days 
Center See a tan in minutes ... Not Hours Ev~ .... •l:J~> u11111 7:30 
Ironwood & St. Road 23 (Across From Martin's) 
The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 13 
ND men swimmers split at home; take ORU but lose to Bonaventure 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
In the Rolfs Aquatic Center last Friday night, the Notre Dame men's swim team had the dual challenge of trying to dampen the celebration rer mighty St. Bonaventure while at the same time preserving Oral Roberts' pride. 
Notre Dame beat Oral Roberts, 66-44, yet lost to Bonaventure, 68· 44, In the double dual meet. 
Last year, St. Bonaventure handed the Irish their worst defeat with a score of 81-3 I. 
"We expected St. Bonaventure to be strong," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "But one of our team goals was to close last year's gap (in points). 
"We did score a few more. We have been swimming very well, despite the scores." 
While Bonaventure gave the Irish some points by swimming the last couple of events In exhibition, Notre Dame closed the ~0-polnt gap by a gentleman's half, and kept even at least with last year's difference. 
Against Oral Roberts, the Irish had to be careful of too much domina· tion. While Oral Roberts' men have had more experience at a varsity level than the women, other factors caused problems for the Titans. 
"We expected them to be OK," Welsh said, "but a couple of things affected them. For one thing, they had a long trip. They swam a little slower than usual." 
Besides the difficulty In the travel arrangements, the meet itself is set up to Oral Roberts' disadvantage. 
"In double dual meets, when one team is so much better than the ot· hers, as St. Bonaventure was, these things very often happen," said Welsh. "We had to swim the meet to St. Bonaventure. In doing that there was not much of an alternative but to beat up on Oral Roberts a little." 
The dual meet gave Notre Dame's young divers a chance to gain some needed experience. 
"We're Improving rapidly," Welsh said of his divers. "What's been remarkable about our divers Is that they haven't had any significant 
Women swimmers can't help but embarrass ORU 
Friday afternoon In Rolfs Aquatic Center, the Notre Dame women's swim team defeated Oral Roberts by the score of91·22. 
And the meet was less evenly matched than even the 69-point dlf· would suggest. 
For Oral Roberts, 1986 is the first year that the women's team has competed as a varsity sport. The team simply could not offer Notre Dame's defending North Star Con· 
ference champions much competi· lion. 
"We did get a chance to swim people In new events," said Irish coach Tim Welsh. "It gave us a chance to experiment with what might become championship events for us." 
Freshman freestyler Tracy Johnson turned in an Impressive 
2:03.00 time In the 200-yard event, a swim which gives Welsh more op· tions in planning his lineup for the 800 freestyle relay in the conference championships. 
Hollianne Logan, a sophomore 

Freah, hot, great-taatlng pizza from DOMINO'S PIZZA~ Made to order and delivered In 30 mlnutea, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on Tueaday, get $2.00 off any 16-lnch cheese pizza with 2 or more topplnga. 
Juat aak for Tuesday's apeclal. Available all day thla Tueaday •.. only from Domino'• Pizza. 
o~r/1-r 
~ 
Call us: 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
O..r drivers carry leu than $20.00. No coupon neceaaa:l.J Juet r~eat the 
~u,e;:~,!-~ Pl~~~nc IY<IfY area. 
II 
DOMINO'S 
· PIZZA 
DELIVERS~ 
: · ®FREE. 
diving experiences. Both completed a full 22 dive competition, all of which they have learned since fall." 
Diving for the Irish are freshman Todd Maus and junior Terry Dempsey, the latter of which swam for the team last season. 
According to Welsh, the most lm· portant swim of the meet for the team was Roger Miro's 200-yard Freestyle, which, at 1:47.77 was good for first place against Oral Roberts and second against Bonaventure. 
"The (North Star Conference) championship Is only three weeks away," Welsh said. "One key event Is the 800-meter Freestyle. I'm looking for the four fastest swimmers. This was Roger's first opportunity· to swim the event this year, and it was our fastest 200-Freestyle of the season." 
The men's swimming team closes out its home meet schedule this weekend with meets against Bradley on Thursday and Ferris State on Saturday. 

from San Diego, swam her first but· terfly this season and finished first at I :05.38, just ahead of teammate Venette Cochiolo. The co-captain's time of 1:05.38 gave her second place in the event. 
"Butterfly is one of our strongest events," Welsh noted. "The time is fast enough to give us even more flexibility In the fly event." 
Another who turned in an excel· lent performance is sophomore diver Andrea Bonny. F9r the third week in a row she broke varsity records In the one· and three-meter diving events. 
ANTI-VIOLENCE'~ 
'• VOLUNTEERS 
Cent•r for rton-VIolenu 
...11:1n1full-ttme .rr. 
Locftlnf, lf~Qttto., I HNHII cor. l'v*llohet•NIINIIIICIIII publlahlnfl on lftNII/oll, IN"Iopfllfl OOU,.II on 11011­rio,.nc• 1ttd Ol»flllng NllloiiiiCNIHiolton T.~. rioMIICI lOCIIIH'InCIIIIMitltiNifiO 
·~ 
U.otllllnoll
ON,..,commHtmHt
·~ ,,ooo..,.,.rlonatlfllt#HI. 
CIOJI: 2J 7·.JH·JP20 SendNaume tor 
Tho"""' Raaclrl, H.D. lfox2JII7, Cbmplfltpt, IL 11820
·~ 
.~ 
·~ 
·~ 

Bonny also beat last week's qualifying score for the Division I diving zone competition with a point total of 400.425. 
Rhodes scholar Tess Doering had a particularly exciting meet accord· lng to Coach Welsh. 
Her third-place finishes In the 200-yard Individual Medley and the 
1 00-yard  Backstroke  were  In  her  
first  competitions  since  early  
December.  

"Because of the Interviews (for the scholarship), she was not able to train with us," Welsh said. "That's a special credit for her. Then, her Christmas plans did not allow her to train with us. She has trained by her· self. She has shown a lot of self· discipline." 
Welsh also lauded senior Julia Boss, who shaved over a half of a second off her time in the 50-yard freestyle event. She swam It In :25.46. "That's the first time she's gone 
under 26 seconds," said Welsh. "A halfsecond may not seem like much, but In the ~0-yard It's a big jump." 
Notre Dame had the opportunity to rack up more points against Oral Roberts, but chose to swim exhibl· tlon In the final relay event. 
Throughout the meet, Oral Roberts gained points through the scoring rule that prohibits a team from sweeping the scoring in any event. Oral Roberts failed to place In any events until the first (one meter) diving competition. In that event, Oral Roberts' Shara Sheek finished third behind record· breaker Bonny and teammate Kath· teen Epping. 
In humiliating the Inexperienced Oral Roberts team, the Irish raised their record to ~-2. Notre Dame's women will swim Friday against Illinois-Chicago and Valparaiso, and next Wednesday against Saint Mary's In their final home meets of the season. 
Patriots announce testing will continue for seven 
Associated Press 
BOSTON · Seven members of the 
New England Patriots who tested 
positively for drug use during the 
past year wlll continue to be 
checked on a random basis, the head 
of the team's drug program said yes· 
terday. 
The group includes two players whose tests showed they had been drug-free for six to eight months, said Dr. Armand Nicholi, who also is the team's psychiatrist. 
"Until they understood that they would be tested, some ofthem ques· tioned" why the tests were continu· ing, Nicholl said. "Ifplayers are clean for six to eight months, we stop con· sultation but (continue the) test." 
He also said tests done on the seven players were negative since Jan. 2 and two of those players were drug-free all season. 
"To my knowledge, we tested all seven" during the week before the Patriots' 46-10 Super Bowl loss to the Chicago Bears Jan. 26, he said at a news conference. 
Nicholl called the news con· ference to reinforce points he made in a written statement last Thursday In which he said seven Patriots were tested for drug use during the past year. 
In that statement, he said tests showed that five of them had used 
marijuana and the other two had 
used marijuana and cocaine. The 
statement also said "our testing lnd· 
icated that all seven players had 
been drug free for several weeks, 
with some drug free for the entire 
season." 
Under the players' collective bar· 
gaining agreement with manage· 
ment, teams can test players If a 
physician has reasonable cause to 
suspect drug use by those players. 
Nicholl said It's up to Patriots Coach 
Raymond Berry to decide If there Is 
reasonable cause. 
"Most of them that have been called In" by Berry "freely admitted recreational use" of drugs, Nichol! said. 
"There's only been one time that · I've ever actually talked to a player 
in which It would be classified as a 
reasonable-cause situation where I 
didn't have absolute proof," Berry 
said. "He just said, 'no,' and that was 
it." 
In Honolulu, five Patriot players 
said they believe a player, not Berry, 
gave the Boston Globe names of six 
players who allegedly used drugs at 
one time. The five were among eight 
Patriots who were in Honolulu for 
Sunday's Pro Bowl all-star game. 
--~-------------­
~--------------------------------------------.-----------~----------------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 4, 1986-page 14 
Wrestlers bid for upset lost at Central Mich. 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame wrestling team · journeyed to Mount Pleasant, Mich., Friday with hopes of upsetting un­defeated Central Michigan. The trip was unsuccessful, however, as the Irish were defeated, 30-18. 
Notre Dame head coach Fran McCann said he was unhappy with the performance ofhis squad, whose dual-match record dropped to 5-3. 
"I was extremely disappointed with the match," said McCann. "We needed an all-out effort to beat Central Michigan, and we didn't get it. We were flat." 
Notre Dame got pins from 134· 

"In a match like this one, you need your good wrestlers to win and you need some surprises," McCann noted "With Dan Carrigan hurt, Bubolo filled in and wrestled out of his weight class. 
"His win was a big lift for us, and it could have put us over the top." 
Getting over the top proved to be a little too difficult, and the Irish were saddled with the loss. 
Irish wrestlers Carl Hildinger, Chris Geneser and Dave Helmer lost by decision, with Geneser and Hel­mer losing by one point each. 
Dave Carlin lost by disqualifica­tion. Ron Wisniewski lost by 

Fran McCann 
technical fall, John Krug was beaten by major decision and Spero Karas was pinned. 
McCann indicated that the losses by Geneser at 167 pounds and Krug at 177 pounds were particularly costly. 
"We were really counting on those two," commented McCann. "And after Bubolo pulled off the up­set, they were especially critical. After you get an upset, your good wrestlers have to win but they just couldn't get it done." 
McCann said that while Central Michigan had a stronger team, the Irish could have been hampered by their own mental approach to the match. 
"We don't quite have the horses like they do yet, but we could have beaten them with astrongeffort," he said. "They're a good team, and it would have been an upset. 
"I think we had too many doubts going into this match because they are 10-0. We have to be more positive." 
The road will not get any easier for the Irish this week as they head to East Lansing to face Michigan State on Thursday. 

The Oboervn/Hannn Hacker 
The Notre Dame wrestling team traveled to short, losing 30-18. The loss dropped the Irish Central Michigan University over the weekend in season mark to 5 ·3. Rick Rietbrock gives details of an attempt to upset the host school but came up the meet in his story at the left. 
Men's interhall basketball action heats up; Planner, Grace I record important wins 
ByDAVE McGAREL 
Sports Writer 
Action in men's interhall basket­ball continued to heat up this past week as teams vied for the two playoff spots in each of the three divisions. While the ACC and the Big Ten had but a few scheduled games, Big Sky division teams played several competitive and important games. 
Two of the Big Sky's powerhouses clashed when unbeaten Flanner I met a 3-1 Keenan squad. Flanner en­tered the game with only six healthy players. Two starters, Scott Hardek and leading scorer Joel Rump, were out with injuries, as were two other subs with various ailments. 
"We only picked ten players at the start of the year so we would have a tighter-knit team," said Flanner cap­tain Eric Grasberger." It backfired a little against Keenan because we couldn't play really aggressive for fear offouling out." 
Flanner did emerge victorious, however, with a hard-fought 40-39 victory. 
Point guard W es Shorter led the Flanner troops with 20 points while, as Grasberger noted, teammate Pete Kazmierczak contributed with a key assist and great defense down the stretch. With the victory Flanner im­proved its record to 6-0, while Keenan suffered its second straight defeat. 
Keenan's other loss came several days earlier when Grace I won a thriller in overtime, 55-51. Grace led 53·51 in the five-minute extra period on Steve Takach's basket. With two seconds left, Keenan missed the front end of a one-and­one. Grace's Tom Hickey then iced the game with two free throws. · 
Grace now is tied with Stanford, which edged St. Ed's 54-52, for second place in the Big Sky division. Cavanaugh, meanwhile, ripped Off· Campus Crime, 72-47, to tie Keenan at 3·2. 
In the ACC division, Alumni I defeated Grace II by a margin of 61­45 to boost its record to 3-1. Grace II fell to 2-2. 
In other games, Flanner II beat Carroll Vermin 40-32, while Dillon I had an easy time with the Off­Campus Bombers, winning by a count of 78-60. 
Big Ten action saw Sorin continue to dominate and Dillon II fall from the ranks of the undefeated. Captain Pat Collins' Sorin team mauled the Fisher Stingrays (2-2), 63-23, to move to 4-0. Dillon II (3-1 ) was surprised by Holy Cross ( 2-2) in a close 55-53 decision. 
In other Big Ten tilts, Alumni II beat Howard, 67-55, and Pangborn won a forfeiture when Off-Campus II failed to field a team. 
Women's Track Club does well in home meet 
Talk about bad timing. While the majority ofthe student body was enjoying the Marquette basketball game last Saturday, the Women's Track Club was hosting the Notre Dame Invitational track meet. Forget about attractingfans· the team was unable to even get trainers and officials for the meet. 
But the meet went on as planned. Against varsity com­petition, Notre Dame finished a strong fourth place. St. Joseph's won the meet with Loyola finishing second, Detroit third, Goshen fifth, and Evansville sixth. 
Distance runner Nancy Loughlin put in a gutty perfor­mance for the Irish. She took eigth in both the mile run and two-mile run, and with only a ten minute rest after the two mile, she ran the anchor leg of the mile relay. She combined with Kathleen Lehman, Julia Merkel, and Maureen O'Leary for a third place finish in that event. 
O'Leary also ran very strong, winning the 440-yard run and finishing third in the 300-yard run. Lehman, bothered by a sore knee, took fifth in the 880-yard run. Susan Rosen­thal placed second in the shot, and Julia Merkel, who had been ill up to the race, finished second in the mile. Another runner, Kristine Dragani, did not run due to illness, and Club President Mary Beth Fiske did not run because she had to officiate the meet. 
"Julia and Kathleen have really been doing a fantastic job for me," said head coach Dan Ryan. "Despite their problems, both ran well in two events each." 
Such problems are not uncommon for the team. The team thrives on knowing that it is doing the best it can despite its lack ofsize ( 12 members) and its club status. 
"We have a strong team, but we're small," noted Fiske. "When it comes to big meets we don't have the numbers to carry the team. A Jack ofsprinters especially hurts us. 
"Everyone assumes we are varsity," she continued. "At the meet in Windsor, people were saying, 'Is that the Notre Dame?' We also get about 25 recruiting letters from run­ners who don't realize that we're not varsity." 
A certain pride is evident in the dedication of the team members. Over Christmas break, Ryan gave the team a workout scheme which he had followed when he was an all-america track member of the University of Michigan. Though he did not expect them to follow it, many runners tried. As a result, the team returned in good shape for the season, which made Ryan's job a lot easier. ' 

Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 
"This is really a great job, even though it Isn't com­pensated," Ryan said. "If it weren't for the dedication of these girls, I wouldn't be here. 
"Coaching track is really a joy for me, but being a club is a pain for the runners," he continued. "Mary Beth had to practically run this meet by herself, so she missed her race." 
Over the weekend previous to the Notre Dame Invita· tional, the team traveled to Windsor, Ontario for the Can­Am track classic. The Irish ran very well against some ofthe strongest collegiate teams in North America. 
Fiske was able to run in this meet. Her time of 13:30 in the 3000-meter run was impressive considering she missed the entire cross-country season due to ankle problems. Merkel won her heat in the 1000-meter run, and the team of O'Leary, Dragani, Lehman, and Merkel ran the 800-meter relay for the first time, placing third in their heat. 
The team is off this weekend as it prepares for the Huron Open track meet at Eastern Michigan. 
• 
The Men's Volleyball dub improved its record to 3·1 with two victories last week. On Wednesday the team easily defeated Western Michigan, 15-1, 15-4, 15·1 0. 
"It's the best I've seen us play in a while," said head coach Bill Anderson. "Everything started to come toget­her." 
"We played very well, but Western Michigan doesn't belong in our league," added Club President Ed Abt. "But our second and third teams also looked good, which shows we have a pretty strong bench." 
Friday night Notre Dame hosted a late-arriving Univer­sity of Michigan team. The Irish won the match, which 
didn't start until 9 p.m., by the score of 15-9, 15-7, II·'5, 15-7. "We played really !axed," said Anderson. "I think we were just tired ofwaiting." 
This weekend the team travels to Ohio State to take part in an eight-team tournament which features powerhouses Ohio State and IUPU-Fort Wayne. 
• 
The Gymnastics Club began its season this past weekend. The men placed third in the quadrangular meet, and the women took second in a triangular meet. 
"The men really didn't do too well," said Club President Jim Ciesil. "They were nervous, but they should improve alot. 
"The women did well overall," he continued. "It was the first competition for a lot of them because they are mostly freshmen and sophomores." 
Paul Nowak finished third overall for the Irish with an average score of 5.53, and Michelle Broussard won the women's all-around with an average of 7.12. Other strong performers for Notre Dame included Francis Sverdrup, Dave Pignot, and Maureen Durkin in the vault, Maureen Leonard on the beam, Matt Sennett on the pommell horse, and Ciesil in the floor exercise. 
The team competed without its coach, Rich John, who underwent surgery Friday after ripping his achilles tendon during a workout Thursday. 
• 
And finally, the ski team returned to the slopes of Mic­higan this past weekend for two meets. The results were not available on Saturday's race at Crystal Mountain, which consisted of a giant slalom and a dual slalom. At Caberfae on Sunday, the Notre Dame women placed second, St. Mary's took fifth, and the men finished third. 
"K.K. Meyer and Laurie Shea skied very well Sunday," said women's captain Kathy Skendzel. "We didn't have K.K. on Saturday, butJane Heisel raced well then." 
For the men, John O'Donovan placed third overall on Sunday, andJohn Kruger put in a strongperformance in the slalom. 
.r----------------------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------~---~ -­
~t(Jt~C3l~----------------------------------------Tu_e_s_d_ay_,_F_eb_r_u_ary
__4_,_19-.8_6_-_p_a_ge---15 
Bloom County Berke Breathed 
HOt.P 'T. W1fY 11/EN'T 1 S!A5K:I<. IINYMJR£ 1 
I 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Despicable people 5 Swamp denizen for short 
9 Admonitions 14 Rabbit 15 Ring of light 16 Creamy white 17 Amazon 
cetacean 18 Portent 19 Relish 20 Famed song 
route 23 Free 24 Row 25 But: Lat. 26 Fllp·flop 30 Slit 34 Males 35 Swiss river 37 Downthe 
primrose path 41 Llama land 42 Rd. 43 Surre..a.r.ct 
44 Adjust the 1Cl11186 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/4/.Bii
All Rlgh11 Reeerved
sound again 48 -Isla Monday's Solution 
48 Homily: abbr. I lfllpfled 48 Setbacl 9 Render 54 Willie Ntll8on hlirmleas 
song 10 Roundlsll 58 Cubic m.ter 11 Starofa 56 Rainbows tlnd 80 Church book 12 Helen of­61 Refueling ship 13 o.mascus' 62 Capture a.nd: abbr. 63 Croissant 21 Deml·­64 Small land 22 Owrawe 
masses 27 Uncovered 65 "'Born Free" 28 Praise heroine 29 Pa.port 66 Epithet of 30 Cutoff Athena 31 Unique object 32 Raison d'­DOWN 33 Close 1 Contract In 34 -West 
2/4/111
wrinkles 36 Finale 2 Kayak 38 Indian 47 Indian Ocean 54 Elevator 3 Sheep princess arm man 4 CiviiWar 39 Value too 50 Marketplace 55 Dickens 
general highly 51 By -(orally) heroine 5 Opt 40 Fla. town 52 Advance 56 Baobab e.g. 6 Collided with 45 Escorts furtively 57 Spoken 7 Ollvegenus 46 Footprints 53 -Gay 58 --dlsant 


"Once In a while couldn1 we just have some pasta?" 
.Campus 
•12:00 
P.M.· Brown Bag Seminar, "Theater, •7:00 P.M. -Lecture, "Questioning the Sig­Video and Counter Culture in Chile," David nificance of Form as It Relates to Material and Benavente, Kellogg Fellow, Room 131 Decio, Process," Peter Mitten, artist in residence, Sponsored by Kellogg Institute Room 232 Moreau, Sponsored by Saint Mary's 

Art Dept. 

•1:00 
P.M. -Dessert-Card Party, University •7:00 P.M. -Meeting, AIESEC, Room 220 Club, Sponsored by Ladies ofNotre Dame Hayes-Healy 

•3:30 
P.M. -Mlnlcourses, Time Sharing Op­•7:00 P.M. -Meeting, Southern California tion and MacWrite Wordprocessing, Room Club, Little Theater, LaFortune I 04 Computing Center •7:00 & 8:00 P.M. . lnfunnation Night, 

•3:30 
P.M. -Graduate Seminar, "Adaptive Spring Break, Florida 1986, Room 304 Haggar Control Using Extended Prediction Horizon," College Center, Sponsored by Student Ac­Dr. Erik Ydstie, University of Massachusetts, tivities Board Amherst, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by •7:30 P.M. -Faculty Forum, Friends of the Chemical Engineering Dept. Library Faculty Forum on the People, Dr. Dian 

Murray, Rare Book Room Memorial Library 

•4:00 
P.M. -Lecture Series, Art Depanment •7:30 P.M. -Discussion· Meeting, Boycott: Visiting Lecture Series, james Addey and Continued Suppon, Center for Social Con­Alison McMaugh, Michigan State, Isis Gallery, cerns Library, Sponsored by F.L.O.C. -N.D. Riley Hall ofAn Suppon Group 

•7:~0 P.M. -Informational Meeting, on op­

•4:30 
P.M.-Seminar,"Genetic Analysis ofthe position to the death penalty, Delbert Tibbs, Iron Oxidizing Bacterium Thiobacillus fer­former death row prisoner, Center for Social rooxidans," Mark Roskey, Notre Dame, Room Concerns Building 232 Moreau, Sponsored by Dept. ofBiological •7:30 P.M.-Meeting, Amnesty International, Sciences Center for Social Concerns Building, 


Dinner Menus Notre Dame Saint Mary's Southern Fried Chicken Veal Scallopini Veal Merengo Eggplant Cheese Bake Spinach Quiche Spaghetti with Meat Sauce Grilled Reuben Sandwich Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce Wet Burritos 
TV Tonight 
J 
8:00P.M.  16  The: A-Team  9:00P.M.  16  NBC Movie of the: Week: "Peter  
22  Melba  the: Great"  
28  Who's the: Boss?  22  CBS Special Movie: "Sins"  
34  Nova: "Horse: men ofChina"  28  Moonlighting  
34  Odyssey  
46  Lc:sea Allvc:  
8:30P.M.  22  Charlie & Company  !O:OOP.M.  28  Spenser: For Hire:  
28  Growing Pains  34  Yes Ma'Am  
46  Skylitc: Cavalcade  46  Dwight Thompson  


,---------==--=-~_-------=------­
Tuesday, February 4, 1986 -page 16
SRorts 
Strong overall effort propels Irish to big 69-62 victory over Maryland 
ByERIC SCHEUERMANN contest, shot 9-of-14 from the field were not helping out on defense. So AssistantSports Editor and also contributed five assists. I just took the ball to the hole." Ken Barlow came offthe bench to The game was tied 33·33 at the 
While many preferred to focus on score 14 points in 23 minutes of ac­halfand stayed close until the 13:05 the physical play in Notre Dame's tion. mark when Rivers hit an 18-footer 69-62 victory over Maryland last "With it being more ofa half-court from the top of the key on an in· night, Irish he~d coach Digger game tonight, I had to be patient and bounds play. This started an eight· Phelps made sure the team's fine show poise," said Rivers. "We had to point run for the Irish, and Barlow's overall play against the Terrapins have ball movement · that's the bank shot with 11:03 to play gave was not overlooked. name of the game. We were able to Notre Dame a 51·43lead. 
"The reason we won the game set picks down low to get the good The Terrapins quickly pulled to was our offensive execution," said shots. Sometimes we may force within five, but Rivers drove Phelps. "That was our problem in shots, but we try to be creative out through an ill-advised half-court trap the last l 0 minutes against North there." -and hit a crucial eight-foot jump shot Carolina and for part of the Mar­The game started out on a strange to break an Irish scoring drought quette game. note, with the scheduled Southeas­and push the lead back to seven. 
"We had one relapse tonight, but tern Conference officials unable to "We were flat for awhile and went that was because of turnovers and arrive in time due to fog at Michiana three minutes without scoring," said not shot selection. We got over that Regional Airport. Two high school Rivers. "I tried to ignite the team by and executed very well down the officials took over until the second pushing the ball upcourt." stretch when we had to." half when the SEC officials finally The Terrapins seemed to have 
It was apparent from the statistics made it. one more shot when they trailed by that the Irish had indeed played one Stevenson led the Irish in the first six and had the ball, but an offensive of their finest offensive games of the half with 10 points, many of them foul call on forward Len Bias and the season. Notre Dame shot 61 percent coming on strong drives to the bas­ensuing foul shots by Irish forward from the field for the game, which ket against a seemingly relaxed Ter· Ken Barlow put the game out of included a 65 percent effort in the rapin man-to-man defense. reach for good. second half. "I think this was my best game at Bias led the Terrapins with 25 The Observer/ Paul P2hornky 
Leading the way for the Irish were Notre Dame," Stevenson said. "I points, but was continually harassed Notre Dame forward Tim Kempton goes up against Maryland's guards David Rivers and Mark played good defense, and offensively all night by the physical Irish, a tactic Terry Long (center) and Derrick Lewis (left) in last night's 69-92 
Stevenson with 18 and 16 points, I stayed in the game. I take whatever that frustrated Bias. The Maryland Irish win over the Terrapins. Eric Scheuermann details the game in respectively. Rivers, playing perhaps the defense gives me, and tonight I his story at the left, whilejohn Coyle describes the effect the strong his finest game since the DePaul saw I cc-uld penetrate because they see IRISH, page 12 Irish insidegame bad on thephysical Terrapins in his story below. 
Physical defensive play frustrates, limits Bias 
ByJOHN COYLE designed his defensive game accord­Maryland to adapt its offense to the Bias from moving down low, where They (Notre Dame) were more Sports Writer ingly. situation. he is most dangerous. physical than most teams.'' Using a point zone, a two-three "We used no gimmicks," said Phelps was quick to defend his 
The Notre Dame basketball team zone, and a straight man-to-man at Phelps. "(Ken) Barlow, (Sean) Con­"That's our plan ...to play people team's aggressive, physical style of has been playing an extremely different times throughout the nor, (Tim) Kemptom, (Scott) Hicks, physically, down low," explained play after the game. physical brand of basketball inside evening, the Irish were able to dis· Royal and Dolan all played (Bias) Dolan. "Both sets of referees let us "Physical play is a part ofour game all season, and last night was no ex­rupt the Maryland offense and when he came in their area. In the play physically inside." but everyone has played Bias physi· ception. The trademark physical prevent Bias from dominating the post, we fronted him and we tried to Bias was visibly frustrated by the cally," noted the Irish head coach. " play, along with a mix of three dif· game. The Terrapins seemed deny him when he was in the tactics of the Irish defense and the College basketball is a very physical ferent defenses, was a key factor in confused by the Irish defense at wings." amount of contact underneath. He game this year. I guess when Bias the win over the Terrapins of times, which, combined with the ag­The contact in the paint, more was often involved in shoving doesn't get the ball, he gets Maryland. gressive play underneath, frustrated than anything, seemed to have the matches with Barlow and Dolan as frustrated." 
the Maryland players. most detrimental effect on the they vied for position. The talented 
While Maryland is not a one-man visitors from College Park, Md .. With forward complained to the referees Phelps believes the Irish team, the Terrapins needed an Although Phelps said the Irish only two referees working in the on several occasions for what he defensive physical style will benefit above average game from Atlantic used only these three basic defenses, first half, there was a lot of pushing thought was unnecessary roughness them as they get closer to NCAA Coast Conference leading scorer, often the Irish defense resembled a and shoving from the start, which set on the part of the the Irish big men. tournament time. It certainly Len Bias, if they were to knock off diamond-and-one with either Jim the tempo for the whole game. "I can't do anything but let them proved itself successful last night as the more talented Notre Dame Dolan or Donald Royal on Bias. The bigger and heavier Irish beat on me if the refs don't call it," Notre Dame was able to disrupt squad. Irish head coach Digger Nonetheless, the switching Irish players were able to wear the much said Bias. "I thought the game would Maryland's offensive game plan and Phelps was aware of this fact and defenses made it very difficult for smaller Terrapins down and prevent have been called a little tighter. keep Bias under relative control. 
Weekend brings losses to Irish hockey squad 
By MICHAEL KEEGAN made the best of their op­Sports Writer poprtunities, while the Irish did not. "The scoring opportunities were 
For the Notre Dame hockey team, clearly in our favor,"said Smith. last weekend was one it would just "Even though Lake Forest had less as soon forget. In an away-home opportunities to score, they capi· series against Lake Forest, the Irish talized at critical times. By making dropped both games by scores of4-2 the best of their opportunities, they and 6-3, respectively. Head coach beat us." Charles "Lefty" Smith felt the team In Saturday's game, the Irish as a unit played well, but it did not jumped out to a l-0 in the first capitalize on scoring opportunities. period when Tom Mooney scored 
"Both games were very similar," off assists by Mike McNeill and Dave said Smith: "It seemed as though we Waldbillig. A few minutes later, Lake were down in their zone all game Forest's Jim Elia scored to tie the long, but we didn't get any goals. I game. But in the only other score of thought we got a good effort out of the period, Notre Dame's Brent everyone. We were getting the shots Chapman took a pass from Tim we wanted, but a strong effort on the Reilly and put it past goalie Gary Wil­part of Lake Forest's goalie coupled lett for a 2-l Irish lead. with missed opportunities ac· The second and third periods, counted for the team losing both though, proved disastrous for the games.". Irish. Lake Forest scored the first 
In both games, the Irish outshot three goals of the second period. All the Foresters. On Friday night, Notre these goals came between 9:27 and Dame had 30 shots on goal 12:07 of the period. This placed the compared to only 16 by Lake Forest. Foresters ahead 4-2. With the team's At the ACC on Saturday night, the enthusiasm diminished, Mike 
The Oboerver/ Paull'lboftlky 
Irish held the shots on goal McNeill provided a small bit ofhope 


The Notre Dame hockey team was tripped up by dropped the Irish season record to 8-15-1. Mike advantage by a margain of 30 to 26. as he took a pass from Greg Duncan Lake Forest last weekend as the Foresters swept an l)eegan reviews all the weekend action in his story Smith said the difference in both 
see H'lCKE\', ~>age 10
away-and-home series from the Irish. The losses at right. games was the fact that Lake Forest 





