~-------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Campus Scene -inside 



VOL. XXI, NO. 69 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1986 

Secord under 
Sr. Club hires investigation Biggs full-time 
Associated Press 

as manager
WASHINGTON -Richard Secord's last full-time Defense Department job By MARY HEILMANN
was in a little-known division that su­pervises arms sales to many foreign Assistant News Editor countries. It employed several people whose names have surfaced in the Iran­
The Office of Student Activities has Contra affair. announced the appointment of a full­
Secord, a retired Air Force major time employee at the Senior-Alumni general who reportedly played a key Club to guarantee continuity and role in the diversion of profits from the "stability" in the management, accor­sale of U.S. arms to Iran to the ding to Lawrence Briggs, who has been Nicaraguan rebels, retired in May 1983 designated as the Club's administrative 
as a deputy assistant defense secretary general manager. 
l 
at the department's International Se­Briggs, who assumed his duties at the 
curity Affairs section. 
student-operated club Dec. 1, is now the Secord oversaw Near Eastern and only full-time employee and the highest 
j
South Asian affairs at ISA, according official of the Club, which had formerly to the Congressional Directory. 
been operated solely by student managers.
Between July 11, 1983 and Nov. 11, 1
"One of the biggest things the Uni­1984, after his retirement, Secord was versity hoped to accomplish by hiring authorized to serve a consultant to ISA me is that they want to have a littlefor a total of 220 days at $242 a day. But stability here from year to year,"Pentagon records show that he "did not Briggs said. 
serve anr days in pay status," a spokes­"Some years it's just too uncertain.
man said. Secord, however, was a One year you have an extra-goodmember of a special operations advi­crowd, like we do this year, and thesory group until his term expired last next year the situation's entirely differ­August. 
ent," Briggs said. 
Federal investigators have said privately that Secord, 54, is under in­The position of Administrative Gen­
vestigation in connection with the eral Manager was created by Ceil Paul­
transfer of money -through Swiss bank sen, assistant director of Student Ac­accounts and international arms mer­tivities, who had formerly performed chants -from Iran to the Contras, the the financial and bookkeeping duties guerrillas fighting against Managua's for the Club that Briggs has now as­Sandinista government. sumed, according to Senior Bill Lytle,The ISA, where Secord worked, form­the Club's current student manager. 
ulates policy on political-military activ­Lytle said that Paulsen began her ities for non-European countries, and 
work with the Senior-Alumni Club last 
The Observem>amian Chin
also "provides supervision in the areas Christmas glass year. Paulsen was unavailable for com­
Color provided by Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
of security assistance (i.e., foreign mil­ment because of illness. "She took overitary sales and military assistance pro­A stained glass window depicting the the Church of Loretto on the campus of the books and wrote checks, workinggrams) ... ," the official U.S. govern­advent of Christ in a stable embellishes Saint Mary's College. 
out of Student Activities. She was thement manual states. 
direct link between the Senior-AlumniWithin the division is the Defense Se­Asian and Pacific affairs, Pentagon network helping the Contras after Club and the Office of Student Affairs. 
curity Assistance Agency, which actu­records show. Congress cut off military assistance for This year they've (Student Activities) ally administers weapons shipments. the rebels in 1984. The sources spoke taken that one step further by bringing Since March, Kelly, a former Navy only on condition they remain in Larry (Briggs)," he said.
In his ISA job, Secord lobbied in 1981 officer, has been a special assistant to anonymous. 
Calling his reactions to Briggs' ap­for the controversial $8.5 billion sale of President Reagan on the National Se­pointment "mixed," Lytle said thatthe A WACs surveillance planes to Saudi curity Council, handling Asian affairs. Retired Gen. John Singlaub, another "the only reason I condemn it is that it 
Arabia. He reportedly worked on the Kelly's brother, John, is the U.S. am­Contra supporter, said two years ago project with Lt. Col. Oliver North, the bassador to Lebanon. that his efforts to send supplies to the has the potential to lose the student National Security Council staff deputy Secretary of State George Shultz rebels had the backing of the White focus. who was fired for his role in the Iran­summoned John Kelly back this week House, the Pentagon and the State De­"We (the student managers) know 
Contra case. after learning that he had held secret, partment. what the students are after and we try 
At ISA, Secord worked with Noel back-channel talks in October and No­"I've worked (at the Pentagon) with to please them the best we can. We don't Koch and Nestor Sanchez, both of vember with North and Secord about ... Sanchez," he said. want to lose that student orientation," whom held the title of deputy assistant the American hostages in Lebanon. Koch, formerly in charge of ISA's Lytle said. secretary, the 1983-1984 Congressional Africa programs, left the Pentagon in "I would hope the creation of the po­Directory shows. Sanchez, head of ISA 's Latin America May, but has remained a consultant, sition was not a business move," Lytle 
A month after Secord officially left section, is a former CIA officer, who, collecting $261 daily when he works, added. "I don't think we are in the busi-
ISA, James Kelly joined the staff as a sources have told The Associated records show. He has worked for 35 deputy assistant secretary for East Press, was involved in a private supply days since June 19. 
ND Security promotes alcohol education 
By GREG LUCAS have exceeded the legal limit handle it." were intoxicated." He added Staff Reporter of 0.1 percent alcohol in the According to Johnson, the that a majority of the respon­blood and "another 36 percent vast majority of those who dents felt "their chances of 
In an effort to help students were probably impaired. responded to the survey were being apprehended were not learn how much alcohol they "After 0.05 percent," said male. "Most had been drinking that great. can consume before becoming .Johnson, "you could be charged 3 to 6 hours before taking the "When asked if they would legally intoxicated, Notre with driving while intoxicated, test," he said. Johnson said stop a friend from driving if Dame Security offered blood based on other supporting most of the respondents who they thought he or she were alcohol tests to students last evidence, such as erratic exceeded the legal limit had legally drunk, they said Friday night in the Lewis bus driving, staggering or swerv­more than 6 drinks before the 'sometimes'," Johnson said. 
shelter. ing." test. "Most respondents said they'd 
According to Assistant Johnson said "the logic "Most respondents said they like to see more educational Director Phillip Johnson, Se­(behind the tests) is some don't drink and drive," said programs about drinking and curity surveyed 194 students. people can get a blood alcohol Johnson, "and most said they driving," he said. Johnson said 43 percent of the level of O.Q7 and it puts them felt they had driven a motor ve­tested students were found to right over the end, they can't hicle at some time while they see PERCENT, page 6 
see MANAGER, page 6 
'( 
Merry Chnstmas 

This is the last issue of The Observer before Christmas Break. The staff of The Ob­server wish you a Merry Christmas and a safe holiday. The Observer will resume publication on Thursday, Jan. 15. 

The Observer Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 2 
In Brief 
A lighted Christmas cross that decorates a Mississippi state building has drawn threats of a law suit from the Mississippi American Civil Liberties Union. The ACLU alleges that the cross, a tradition since 1979, breaches the constitutional separation of church and state. -Associated Press 
A 30-year jail sentence was imposed Thursday on Eugene Hasenfus by a revolutionary appeals court in Nicaragua for helping to deliver arms to Contra rebels. The appeals court confirmed the verdict of a lower court, known as the People's Revolutionary Tribunal, which found Hasenfus guilty Nov. 15 of violating public order and security, sentencing him to 30 years. -Associated Press 
Accused of spying for the Soviet KGB, a former secre­tary in the office of West Germany's president was charged with treason. Authorities also announced the ar­rest of a senior Defense Ministry aide on suspicion of spying for East Germany, a Soviet ally. The official was arrested before he could pass any secrets and his case was not considered grave, West German prosecutors said. Associated Press 
The $860 million purchase of Western Airlines won final government approval Thursday, allowing Delta Airlines to create the country's fourth largest air carrier in a rapidly consolidatng industry. The Transportation Depart­ment reiterated its Oct. 23 finding that the Delta and West­ern Airlines merger does not pose any competitive prob­lems to other airlines' route systems. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
"A Christmas Service of Lessons and Carols" will be performed by Saint Mary's choirs Sunday night at 8 in The Church Of The Loretto.-The Observer 
The Tenth Annual Christmas Nazz will take place Sat­urday night at 7 in The Center For Social Concerns. A "Grinch" reading as well as other Christmas traditionals will be performed. Free hot cocoa and cookies will be 
available. -The Observer 
Special Olympics volunteers may register today 12 p.m. in the ISO lounge on LaFortune's second floor. -The Ob­server 
"EMMAUS", a community of the mentally handi­capped, will host a mass followed by a coffee hour Sunday at 2 p.m. at Moreau Seminary.-The Observer 
Weather 
Examine this, buddy. Coid. Very cold. Don't you be lookin' out of that book. Upper 20's for today and tomorrow, tops. Tonight's low will be in the 10 to 15 range. So why be miserable outside in the cold when you can be miserable studying in the warmth of your own room? You're 

dismissed. -Associated Press 
___Ihe---O.bse~~er------~---­
A.-=Y~ 
Design Editor .. .. .. .. ...... ... .. Chris Bowler Campus Scene Editors ... Mike Naughton Design ABBistant ......... ...... Cathy Stacey ................................... Caroline Gillespie ............ ......... ................ ... Andy Fenoglio Campus Scene Layout ............................ Typeaetter .......................... Smed Laboe ....................................... Ann Biddlecom .........................................Patrick Laboe ........................................... Karen Webb 
.........................................Heather Hypes News Editor....................... l~gis Coccia Typist ................................ Esther Ivory Copy Editor ........................ Bud Luepke ND Day Editor ........... Noreen O'Conner Sports Copy Editor....... Dennis Corrigan SMC Day Editor ................ Karin Radar Viewpoint Copy Editor ..... Eric Bergamo Ad Design.............. Mary Carol Creadon Viewpoint Layout .......... Kathleen Moran Photographer........................ Greg Kohs 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556. Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Expression of Thanks 
Dear Notre Dame Family, 
There has always been much said about the closeness and compasssion flowing from the Notre Dame community. In our three years here, we have felt the unity of this special place many times. At no time, however, has this feeling ever been greater than at the passing of our roommate and close friend, Michael Cogswell. 
Mike was an incredibly special person, as those of us who were close to him already know. Mike had a unique ability to relate to most anyone. Underneath his fun-loving, outgoing side was a special sensitivity that touched us all. Each of us who knew Mike will always remember our treasured moments with him: tailgaters, trips, late-night conversations. Upon his death we all fully realized just how much his presence meant to us. 
Obviously his loss is hard to bear. It has been greatly eased, however, by the outpouring of sympathy we have received from the friends around us. This compassion was not only felt by his roommates and close friends but also, most importantly, by his family. We cannot begin to describe how much your care relieved their suffering. To know that their child was so loved and cherished by so many helped Mike's parents immensely. It also helped all who were his friends. To all those who showed their consideration and support, we thank you. Your help has truly shown us just how special a place Notre Dame is. 
With great appreciation, 

Mike's roommates: 
Rob Lewis Chuck Butler Paul Conaty Martin Monaco Chris Campili Mark Dillon Tom Dugard Sonny Nunes Tom Hynes Justin Foley 


FINAL EXAM SPECIAL r--------..-------..
I60c OFF I 1 Sackof I 
~~~a~a~~~c;~ ~;~~~ 11 1 TRenaRexgul!ar 11 I
I (sandwich, reg. fries,... 1 and medium soft drink I 1 Roast Beef Sandwiches I or ice tea.) I ~ $10 00 I 
Pie... p....nt coupon befo,. ordering. One 1 or .
I couponperperson,pervlslt.Notvelldlncom· I offer good for multlbles of ten only. Umlt 30 I blnetlon with any other Rax offer. Offer good 
I 

~:~ at perticlpetJng Rax restaurant. only. 112 cent Please present coupon before ordering. One coupon1 cuh redemption value. 19S6 Rex Restau-1per person, per visit. Not valid In combination with any I other Rax offer. Offer good at participating Rax res-
I I 
ronlll Inc.
1 I I .
taurants only. 112 cent cash redemption vDiue. 1986
.' I 1 I Rax Restlluranl:l Inc, 
. Expires Jon. 31, 1987 .. Expires Jon. 31, 1987 
1

II --------~-------1I IR~ I
52770 as 33 North •·
IRestaurants Just north of Ramada Inn ... 

L,=:ao" •-c•••----_J 



Friday, December 12, 1986-page 3
The Observer 

Furmark tens version of Casey's role 


client of Casey's, refused to talk to reporters as he entered the closed Senate hearing. But Casey said it was Furmark who first raised questions in his mind about transfers of funds from then-secret arms sales to Iran. 
While Furmark testified, Sen. William Cohen, R-Maine, emerged to report that "he is being as candid as he can, he is answering all our ques­tions." Another source said Furmark apparently was an in­termediary between Casey and Middle East arms dealers. 
Con~essional sources, speakmg on condition of anonymity, said the Senate In­telligence Committee had learned before Wednesday of Casey's conversation with Fur­mark, leading at least some panel members to question the CIA director's claim of Wed­nesday that he was unaware of the diversion of funds. 
Casey denied a report in The Wall Street Journal that he knew as early as last spring that profits from the Iranian arms sales were being funneled to Nicaraguan insurgents, or Contras. 
"No, that's wrong," Casey told reporters who pursued him down a corridor in the Capitol after his appearance before the House committee. 
Asked when he learned about the arrangement, Casey responded, "I first learned about this when Meese told everybody." It was on Nov. 25 that Attorney General Edwin 

The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Day Editors 
Those interested may come to or call The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune or call Lynne Strand at 283-3861 or Kim Yuratovac at 272-9361. 
Meese disclosed that between 
$10 million and $30 million in 
arms sales profits were 
diverted to the Contras. 
"Before Meese informed 
you, did you start asking ques­
tions?" Casey was asked. 
"Oh, I had questions about it, 
yeah," he replied. 
"When you had questions, was that because of your con­versations with Mr. Fur­mark?" 
"That did precipitate the questions, sure." 
Government sources, who spoke only on condition that they remain anonymous, said Casey told the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Wednes­day that Furmark had telep­honed him Oct. 7 with word that unidentified Canadian busines­smen who had put up the money for the Iranian arms were complaining that they had not been repaid adequate­ly. 
The Canadians were threat­ening a lawsuit because they had received only $10 million when they had expected pay­ment of $20 million, the sources quoted Casey as saring. 
One House Fore1gn Affairs Committee member, who spoke only on condition that he not be identified, said that sometime after Casey's con­versation with Furmark, the CIA director summoned Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North, a member of the National Secur­ity Council staff who was coor­dinating the administration's efforts to aid the Contras. 

The Observei'!Greg Kohs 
Food, glorious food 

Kelly Styrna stops by the ice cream parlor in the newly refur­bished LaFortune for a tasty treat. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -CIA direc­tor William Casey said Thursday he did not learn of possible diversions of Iranian arms sales profits to Nicaraguan rebels until he was tipped by a New York busines­sman in early October. 
Casey spoke to reporters after he testified for more than three hours before a heavily guarded, closed-door session of the House Intelligence Com­mittee. A few minutes later, Casey's purported tipster, Roy Furmark, went before the Sen­ate Intelligence Committee to tell his version of the story. 
Furmark, a former legal 
Sponsored by: SAB, Classes of '88,'89,
Decorate-a-Tree 
NSHP, and ISO 
4:30-6:30 p.m. 
AND, as a study break or after the Glee Club Concert, come to the CSC for SLEIGH RIDES, COCOA, HOT CIDER COOKIES, CHRISTMAS MUSIC. 9pm-12 

Soft 

Contact~ 


Lenses $19.86 

Daily or· Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to Call for an appointment today. tlle contact lenses you have You'll see better for less. Dr. always wanted at a price anyone Tavel's Premium Optical has can afford! For a limited time been caring for eyes for over 40 Dr. David Tavel has reduced tlle years with 32 locations in price of Softmate daily or Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the extended wear contact lenses to care of your family's eyes to an unheard of price of Indiana's largest, oldest and $19.86.• most trusted name in eyecare? 
•Eum i< mquired at the time of purchase and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orders and may no! be combined wilh anv other ditcoun:. 
Providers for all insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium Optical, we've been servinJI Indiana's eyecare needs for over 40 years. We carry on a tradition of excellence that is unsurpassed. And that's a 
SOUTH BEND • MISHAWAKA
promise from the doctor." 
Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center AcrD!'S from Scottsdale Mall Next door to Osco Dru11.
a~L-­
291-4000 258-SO<JO
~­

~-~----~ --------~------­
The Observer Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 4 
December 12, 1986 We, the residents of Howard Hall, would like to express our extreme displeasure with the admin.istra­tion's handling of the decision to convert our home to a women's dor­mitory in the fall of 1987. While we recognize the need to increase the enrollment of women at Notre Dame, we feel there is no excuse for the lack of sufficient time given to the residents of our hall to react to the administration's intentions. At the very least, it is inconsistent to imple­ment a long-term plan on such short notice. As members of the Notre Dame and Howard family, we feel that we have been mistreated and abandoned. The administration should not be al­lowed to take such drastic action -without even consulting the people involved. We hope that the troubles and disturbances that we are suffer­ing will serve to remind the admin­i~tration and the student body of the need for open and continual com­munication. Respectfully, The Residents of Howard Hall Paid Advertisement  


The Observer Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 5 

Ford, Chrysler to employ air bags 
Associated Press cupants. 
The Transportation Depart-
WASHINGTON -Two of the ment already has said it plans top three U.S. automakers said to grant the extension so that Thursday they plan to equip at automakers will be induced to least half of their 1990 model equip cars with air bags at cars with air bags, prompting least on the driver side, while predictions that more than 2 continuing the development of million new cars sold that year bags or belts to protect the pas-will have the safety devices. senger. 
Ford Motor Co. and the The bags, which automati-Chrysler Corp. told a Senate cally inflate to protect a car oc­hearing that their plans to put cupant in a crash, are favored a large number of the driver-by many auto safety advocates side protective bags into their over passive belts that auto-fleets as standard equipment is matically wrap around a car contingent on the federal gov-occupant because the belts can ernment extending its 1989 be detached if considered cum-deadline for passive protective bersome. devices for both front-seat oc-With the commitments indi­cated by Ford and Chrysler there likely will be a minimum of 2 million new cars sold during the 1990 model year that provide air bag protection for the driver, said Brian O'Neil, president of the Insurance In­stitute for Highway Safety. 
O'Neil said in an interview that Japanese automakers "have been silent" on their air bag plans, but that most of the European manufacturers are expected to equip their cars with driver-side air bags by 1990. Mercedes-Benz already makes the devices standard equipment in all its car lines. 
O'Neil and other air bag adv­ocates, meanwhile, predicted 
----------~---:-:-:--::------that General Motors Corp., the 
k. 'th th largest manufacturer produc-
Stuff your stoc lngs WI e ing about 4.5 million cars ~ year, is likely to feel co!ll~tl­
0 a\11e ~~v~I:Se~i~~ea~ ~~~~d 1ts lme
Notre N\arch 
"\dO~~g \r\sh 
f\g\1\\ . 
G\ve.tne ~e'/cna\11, 
~d
\-\eadban , 
\-\at and 
euttonior' 
cnr\stmas. 
Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 

1&1 


::1: 
1­

Tonight is the last 
open night at the club Buy your cups for $1 Refills only $.75 The Club is closed on Saturday. See you after break! 
(419) 62fHl830 Ext. 2388 ­
ND research funds awarded 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received $462,323 in grants during No­vember for the support of re­search and various pro­grams. Research funds totaled $619,589, including: 
$288,866 from IBM for the study of intelligent work sta­tions in the engineer­ing.'academic environment by David Cohn and Eugene Henry, professors of electri­cal engineering. 
$110,000 from Upjohn Co. for unrestricted research by Jacob Szmuszkovicz, ad­junct professor of 
chemistry,  and  Thomas  
Fehlner,  professor  of  
chemistry  

$88,723 from the national Institutes of Health for the 
C.N. 5006 • Sandusky, Ohio 44870 
study of biologically impor­tant furanosyl rings by An­thony S. Serianni, assistant professor of chemistry. 
$82,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search on the perpendicular resistivity of synthetic metal multilayers by Steven Rug­giero, assistant professor of physics. 
$30,000 from the national Science Foundation for the study of Michel Foucault and recent French philoso­phy of science by Gary Gut­ting, professor of philoso­phy. 
$20,000 from the National Science Foundation for re­search in nonlinear process control by Jeffrey Kantor, associate professor of chemical engineering. 
3rd distrct vote tallying continues 
Associated Press 

SOUTH Bend, Ind. -State auditors tallied more absentee ballots and checked recorded vote totals a~ainst impoundedvoting machmes Thursday in the continuing recount of the 3rd District congressional race. 
Hubert Hoffman, a State Board of Accounts field super­visor, said 30 more St. Joseph precincts had been tallied by mid-afternoon. 
In Elkhart County, a com­puter tally of hand-counted punchcard ballots from three precincts was delayed, said David Link, dean of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame Law School. County officials were awaiting authorization of payment for computer time, he said. 
Link was appointed to direct the tallying by the three­member state Recount Com­miSsion. Democratic chal­lenger Thomas Ward, a Knox attorney and Notre Dame graduate, requested the recount after losmg by 66 votes to Republican incumbent John Hiler of LaPorte. The race was the nation's most closely con­tested congressional election. 
Auditors working in St. Joseph and Elkhart counties have also conducted a re­tallying of the disputed Indiana House 5th District election. Completion of the tally in that race depends oq the running of the delayed computer tabula­tion. 
The 3rd District's 450 precincts also reach into por­tions of Kosciusko, Marshall, Starke and LaPorte counties. 

NEED GIFT IDEAS 
[[HE SNJTE MUSEUM SHOP 


HAS THE ANSWER 
Engagement Calendars 
Pottery T·Shirts Christmas cards 
Open Mon.·Sat. 1 0:00·4:00 Sun. 1 :00·4:00 
The Observer 

Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 6 


Manager 
continued/rom page 1 
ness to make money off the stu­dents. We think we should be there to provide a positive so­cial environment." 
Lytle said he thinks the crea­tion of Briggs' position was "a high liability question" be­cause of the alcohol-serving na­ture of the Club. 
"The liability issue is a major concern," Lytle said, "but we were doing very well in that area -we had no major run-ins or problems with use of fake IDs. If there are any major abuses, that would all get reported to Student Af­fairs," he said, noting that Notre Dame security officers are regularly assigned to the Club. 

Briggs agreed with Lytle that "the University's concern with the alcohol problem today" was a reason for the creation of his position, saying the Ad­ministration "feels a little more secure with me being there as far as the liability issue." 
"I'm mainly here for guid­ance," Briggs said, citing his work in restaurant manage­ment and his teaching degree as experiences which qualify him in this capacity. 
Briggs emphasized that his job has not been created to take over positions and duties cur­rently performed by the stu­dent management. 
"I'm actually the head manager so I suppose I would be (the Club's student workers') boss, but I'm not taking over any of their duties," Briggs said. 
Lytle agreed, saying that "this year (Briggs) is mainly there to observe." 
"I still order the alcohol and I still handle the staff; he can only offer suggestions in those areas," Lytle said. 


Percent 
continuedfrom page 1 
Johnson said Security plans to offer morP. tlducational pro­grams tnroughout the next term. He said blood-alcohol testing will be conducted periodically. "We don't want to run it in a way that would en­courage contest drinking," Johnson said. 
Johnson held a meeting on Wednesday night at Morrissey Hall dealing with the legal aspects of being stopped and tested for drunk driving. The 
meeting focused primarily on 
driver's rights. 
Two students volunteered to 
consume six to eight beers in a 
controlled environment before 
the meeting. Later in the eve­
ning, the students were sub­
jected to standard coordination 
and field breath tests by a 
member of Notre Dame secur­
ity. "Many people are not 
aware that Notre Dame secur­
ity is a police force in the state 
of Indiana," Johnson said. 
An important distinction must be made between the al­cosensor and the breathalyzer tests. ''The portable alcosensor that police carry with them is 

A GLOBAL UNIVERSITY 
EDUCATION FOR THE 
REAL WORLD 
Graduate degree programs (MA, PhD) in International Affairs with apolicy emphasis. 
Special fields: International business, development, eco­nomics, strategic studies. 
Area concentrations: Latin America, Soviet Studies and the Middle East. 
Dual degree programs in in­ternational business (MBA­MA) and urban and regionalplanning (MURP-MA). 
Fellowships and other finan­cial aid available. Apply byFebruary 1. 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STIJDIES UNNERSITY OF MIAMI P.O. BOX 248123C CORAL GABLES, FL 33124 (305) 284-4303 

a preliminary breath testing device," said Johnson. This al­cosensor test is not mandatory, but the breathalyzer test is. 
Trooper Kevin Kubsch of the Indiana State Police said "When you sign your name on a driver's license, you consent to take a breathalyzer test if a peace officer has probable cause." The breathalyzer test is given at the station. If a driver refuses to take this test, he will have his license revoked in Indiana for one year. 
"If you ask me how I feel about drunk drivers, I would just as soon lock one up as look 
at him, because I was the vic­tim of a drunk driver last year." said Kubsch, adding, "An officer observes every movement you make." Fur­ther testing is based on his de­termination of "probable cause" in the actions that a driver exhibits as soon as he gets out of the car. 
In response to questions on various methods of sobering up, Kubsch said "There is noth­ing known to man that will af­fect the blood alchohol level." 
~ttift~rsit~ nf ~ntr~ ~am~ 
~tubeut (inuerumeut 
~ntre :!9ame, Jfnbiana 46556 
(219) 239-7668 
While we understand the need for increase 
female housing on campus, the Student 
Senate is thoroughly appalled at the way 
the University is handling the Howard Hall 
switchover. Here are just a few ofthe 
problems we've found. 
·The residents have to move after next semester, they 
found this out on Monday, the week before finals. 
·The rector ofthe hall was informed, by phone, on 
Sunday night. 

• No special provisions of any significant value have been made for the misplaced residents. ·These guys have to decide where they are going to live next year before the end ofJanuary. 
·It appears that no effort will be made to keep groups of friends, sections, or even old roo111t11ates together in their new donns. 
There simply was not enough advance notice given, it's not fair. and we strongly disapprove. 
The Observer 

Elf debuts as parking attendant 
Associated Press Lurvey, the city's director of getting some money to buy 
economic development. Christmas presents for my 
CONCORD, N.H.-Concord's "People got confused, they got children and grandchildren,"parking elf, captured after a ticketed and they got he said. "I try to helP, peoplenationwide search, made his frustrated," he said. "It's far and hopefully the c1ty getsdebut at the downtown garage from user friendly." enough publicity that they'll be Thursday, frustrated by the able to pay my wages and computerized meter system he Parking tickets had make some business out of this was hired to make "user prompted a steady flow of let­parking garage." friendly" for the holidays. ters to the editor and com­The meter is outside, but the 
"It's flawed," said Charlie plaints to police and city offi­22-degree temperature didn't Bonjorno, a 76-year-old retired cials. afpear to effect the elf's sense barber who answered Con­So the city agreed to hire a o humor. cord's call for someone to wear parkin~ attendant as part of an At a news conference the elf suit. advertising campai~n to boost Thursday, he said he should 
"You only get 20 seconds' downtown shoppmg, but have negotiated a better deal: time when you're supposed to couldn't find anyone willing or "I should've charged them a remember where you parked able to wear the size small elf percentage (of parking reve­your car, have your change costume required for the $5.50-nues) instead of a flat rate." 
ready and push the numbers," an-hour job. The jokes continued. Bonjorno said. "If you're slow "I've met so many policemen ... that's it, you've lost your When the city went public doing this, I should be all ri~ht money." · with its holiday plight, aspiring in the future as far as gettmg
Parking in the garage elves from all over the country parking tickets,'' he said. dropped from 100 percent to al­answered the plea, but Bon­most nothing when a comput­jorno, a former Californian And he asked parking en­erized meter requiring a good who moved to Concord three forcement officers, "I'm not 
memory and quick fingers was years ago, won out. getting any more. tickets, am 
installed this year, said Ken "I'm helping out the city and I?" 
RETURNING TO
LEAVING 
NOTRE DAMENOTRE DAME 
effective 10/26/86 

LEAVE ARRIVE ARRIVE 
LEAVE 

MIDWAY NOTRE ARRIVE 
NOTRE ARRIVE 

AT LEAVE MICHIANA DAMEDAME MIDWAYO'HARE O'HARE AIRPORT
MIDWAY BUS SOUTH BEND 
BUS 
AIRPORT AIRLINES SHELTER

SHELTER 
4.20a.m. 6:00a.m. 

8:15a.m . 11:35a.m. 11:50a.m.
• 
•

6:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 7:45a.m. 
9:50a.m. 10:15a.m. 1:35p.m. 1:50p.m. 8:20a.m. 10:00a.m. 9:45a.m. 
11:50a.m. 12:15p.m. 3:35p.m. 3:50p.m. 10:20a.m. 12:00p.m. 11:45a.m. 
1:50p.m. 2:15p.m. 5:35p.m. 5:50p.m.12:20p.m. 2:00p.m. 1:45p.m. 
3:50p.m. 4:15p.m. 7:35p.m. 7:50p.m. 2:20p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:45p.m. 
5:50p.m. 6:15p.m. 9:35p.m. 9:50p.m. 4:20p.m. 6:00p.m. 5:45p.m. 
7:50p.m. 8:15p.m. 11:35p.m. 11:50 p.rr.. 6:20p.m. 8:00p.m. 7:45p.m. 
10:30p.m. 10:15p.m. 1:35a.m. 1:50a.m. 8:20p.m. 10:00p.m. 
12:15a.m . 3:35a.m. 3:50a.m.
• 
• 
ALL ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 

FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674,.6993 OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 7 
The Observei"!Greg Kohs 

The paper chase 
Garrett Kanehahn cranks out that last paper of the semester in the midst of the bi-annual paper rush held in the O'Shaughnessy computer lab. 
.,..,1m,.,\ 
~ .* > 
";,;:;!/b~· 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A 
CONTEMPORARY 
PORTRAIT 
---~!Jtr;tLI(M~,@I~/t~~~~~..IIU .ILl· 
,·:·:··'·" ,:··-· ......, . ' . ··' .... 
"" 
ROBERT P. SCHMUHL 
$16.95, cloth 

1 
J 
1 
1 
--~ --~---~--------~­


"ieVV~_O_i_D_t_____________Fri-day,D-ecem-ber-12,1~-6-pa-ges 
University turned its back on students' drinking 
A member of our community has been killed. Another -also one of us ­has the burden of that death to carry with him. 
James Tunstead Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
we were not there 
But the burden is too large for that one young man to shoulder. Our full tragedy cannot be put to rest by the funeral Eucharist held here two days ago, because many of us who crowded Sacred Heart Church and joined our own grief with the general mourning should bear the responsibility for more than this death, to which our long negligence has contributed. 
All of the principals in last weekend's violence had spent the evening at a stu­dent drinking party: a party that was large and, by all accounts, largely given over to the dull and recurring campus routine of drunkenness. 
It was nearly 20 years ago that we decided to allow students to drink here. We formulated a principle then that was simple and clear. Students were to be accountable for how they drank. And we insisted, based on a continual expe­rience of loutish and drunken behavior when students drank alcohol in riotous assembly, that they were unlikely, and possibly unable, to drink humanely in large numbers. The rule was simple and clear: no intoxication, and no drinking in public. No alcohol abuse; no alcoholic crowds. Itwas a sound and simple rule. We simply failed to live by it. 
The Notre Dame tradition had always been that campus life was the respon­sibility of the senior people here. Our dorms and clubs and entertainments differed from fraternities. Wherever the students lived or studied or ate or prayed or took their leisure or traveled in groups, we were their mentors and 


P.O.BoxQ 
Homosexuals are not ashamed but cautious 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the recent publicity of homosexuals at Notre Dame, such as the lectures by John For­tunato and Jeanine Grammick. Many times, in the dining halls and else­where, I have heard students wonder aloud why so many homosexuals choose to remain anonymous. They usually conclude that these people are ashamed to be homosexual. 
I would like to remind these people of a time, not so long ago, when people were "ashamed" to be Catholic. Job ap­plicants would simply enter "Chris­tian" on their applications, because a Catholic would probably not be hired. In Philadelphia, the burning of Catholic churches was hardly a rare phenome­non. Many bigots, including the Ku 
Doonesbury 
j/ YOU I<NOIM MIKE, THE fAIATER. 
fJI?JPP/1-15 Off THE CEJ/JNG RE­MINJJS ME OfiA/A/..PEJJ.IF YOU ClOSE YfXJ!eE$, YOUCANAl­
a MOST IMAGINE 6EIN6 ON 7HE ~ ;::::--PORCH AFTER. A ~l I o 
companions. Not every minute of it was enjoyable ...on either side. All those Glee Club tours and nights in the dorms and junior proms could be tedious and taxing. There was a discipline to up­hold, the common good to profess. 
But what counted most was that we were there. Oh, there were always some things done that we failed to see, and things we winked at. But we were there and not as intruders. It was our place, built to welcome them, but not on their terms alone. It was a place where older adults moderated what younger adults did as a community. We were there. 
The drinking got bad when we stopped being there. Rectors began to give in and to allow section parties, and then hall parties and class parties. But since the students almost always lost control, they were often disgusting par­ties, and the rectors disliked being there. Student Affairs people knew that the bar scene was becoming an embar­rassment, and for awhile we even pro­vided a special bus for underage stu­dents too drunk to find their way home from the state line when the bars there ran dry. We were not there when the freshmen disgorged and were dis­gorged at the circle. We built our own tavern where students could start drinking at lunchtime. We owned it, but let students manage it; we stayed away. We hired special social workers, though, and sent student drunks to them for counseling. 
Some years back there was a great onset of conscience about alcohol here. There had been some ugly incidents we called accidents. There had been much alcoholism. Lives were lost, lives were wasted. 
And what did we do then? We rewrote the rule. The one straightforward rule bloomed into a document that would make the U.S. Tax Code look simple. We now have a University Rule on AI­cobol, and an Alcohol Policy and Alco­hol Regulations: thousands and thousands of words nobody reads. If anyone did, he or she would notice that the previous concern that students not abuse themselves with alcohol has been overshadowed by a newer concern that their victims not abuse us with law­suits. Liability was the word, not sobriety. 

The rule had never been our problem. 
The people were the problem: all the ~hall staff and Student Affairs people who were turning their backs on the drinking scene. We lacked the nerve to 
confront the students. And we played 
with words instead. We abolished alco­
hol abuse in DuLac. 
Massive drinking bouts have moved out of the dorms into town. We have dumped our drunkenness and bratti­ness on South Bend. The lawfolk there seem still to think that we would like our students given preferential treat­ment. But someday the neighbors' out­rage will prevail. 
Several weeks ago two residence halls held a joint formal dance. It was a big dance, in a downtown hotel (our campus is apparently too small for dances). There was only fruit juice and soda served at the dance (no liability). The students, however, booked rooms for the night: an entire floor was set aside for them. So the thirsty shuttled back and forth throughout the evening, boozing on one floor and dancing on the other. Mter the band went home at one, activities moved entirely to the hotel bedrooms. 
Who was there with those hundreds of seriously drinking students? One hall was represented by its rector, for about an hour. The other rector and assistant rector stayed away. In a word, we were not there. Nothing has changed. We have realms of local canon law on the subject, but Du Lac is not what was needed in the bedrooms of the 
Klux Klan, would verbally and yes, physically abuse . Catholics. My own grandfather lost his job as principal of a high school when his employers dis­covered that he was Catholic (he was too proud to enter "Christian"). 
Were these people actually ashamed to be Catholic? Of course not, but they did suffer from the very human emo­tion of fear. Why should homosexuals be any different? Gay people suffer al­most identical persecution everyday in American society. Some have the courage to make their sexual prefer­ence public knowledge, and, very often, suffer from job loss, harassment and "bashing." 
Many people are proud to be gay, but realize the consequences of coming out publicly. They are no better or worse than those who chose to enter "Chris­tian". 
Joseph Schultz Flanner Hall 
'Z.. ~ v" 0 c:p.;o~
DOONE5­
IJJHY... tuHY,MR.
8URY.I 
8EI..I...OIII5! a!Htrr"' 81?/NG5 ya;ALL. THEa!AYOUTHC/l£?
/ 

Simple message is do not drink and drive 
Dear Editor: 
This article is not the first you've seen about drunk driving and it will not be the last, but it carries a message unlike the messages found in the other arti­cles. How many voices, how many ad­vertisements, how many posters have told you not to drink and drive? Too many? No, not enough. 
This past weekend we lost a friend who has been a dear friend for more than two years now. The loss is one which we cannot describe -mere words cannot explain the special person Mike was and what he meant to us. We can tell you, though, that it is just too hard. Please believe us. Don't ever allow yourself or a friend to take a chance. 
Garry Trudeau 
I UNO£R­
ICAN 
9TANI?a!E'VC. 
cXPLAI~ 
JO!NW TH£3
9/R. ... 
HOMELE%. 
\ \ 
Americana at 5 a.m. Our backs were turned. 
Looking the other way is as much a problem in academics as it has been in student life. For several years now there has been a stir about cheating. Now you could sit down any dozen stu­dents for an hour and come up with a list of 10 or 15 faculty members who are responsible for 90 percent of the cheating that goes on around here. I mean teachers who hand out 300 identi­cal multiple-choice tests, or who assign papers on the very same topics semes­ter after semester, and don't notice that they are reading the same essays over and over. A really crafty student may occasionally slip something past most of us, but the faculty members whose irresponsibility positively invites con­tempt for truth-telling: they are the ob­vious persons to go after. 
Instead, the Academic Council has, with a straight face, been presented with reports and proposals that throw pages of legal confetti at cheating. The problem is not our policy. The policy is as straightforward as the old alcohol rule was: one rule with two parts. Stu­dents are responsible for honest work; and if cheating does occur it strikes at the heart of the education process and cannot be a private matter between an instructor and a student. The rule is not the problem, but no one seems to be accountable for the rule. Once again, we are flinching at confronting the real irresponsibility, and we are tempted to drift into denial by paper fantasies. 
The cost of a Notre Dame education for us who are the elders is that we be with the students, and that we be ac­countable for them and they be ac­countable to us. We must, in a word, be there. But we are not there. And now people are dying of it. 
Father Burtchaell is a professor ofthe­ology and resides in Holy Cross Hall. 
Mistakes are made and mistakes are forgiven, but the pain is never forgot­ten. We love parties and bars and dances, but they only last a few hours. Friends last a lifetime, and when a good time takes a friend away, it takes on a new meaning. Please listen to this ­drinking is not that important. We can­not use lives to pay for a good time anymore. Life is too precious. If this message reaches just one of you, we will have achieved our goal. Please just don't drive if you've been drinking. 
Kris Thompson Suzy Happ Marjorie Zolkoski Cindy Otto Sarah Janicki Nancy Johns Fran Theby Leah Hynes Carey Gels Lewis Hall 
~--------------------------~ 
Quote of the day 
"0 little town of Bethlehem, 
How still we see thee lie; 
Above thy deep and dreamless 
sleep the silent stars go by." 
Phillips Brooks (1835-1893) "0 Little Town ofBethlehem, 

\TielV~_C>__ill__l______________________________________________________________F_r_id~ay~,~D~ec~e~m~b~er~1~2~,1~~~-~p~ag~e~9 
P.O.BoxQ 
Priorities must be kept during times of change 
Dear Editor: 
Notre Dame students do not have their priorities straight. The biggest isue on campus today is the closure of Carroll and Holy Cross Hall and the "eviction" of Howard residents. A dis­tant second, and if not further down on the list, is the fact that drunk Notre Dame students have killed two men in the last month. 
Monday afternoon, after the tragic story was known to all, I could still hear students bragging about what a great time they had on Friday night and how drunk they were at a half-dozen bars and parties. One expects the shock to wear off eventually, of course, but I thought two hours later showed great resilience on their part. 
Last year, when Notre Dame fresh­man Kevin Hurley was struck by a South Bend resident at the entrance to Saint Mary's College, the outpouring of sympathy and anger was remarkable. A similar reaction came when some Notre Dame students were struck on South Bend A venue a few years earlier. But now? One article on the first death, and one now. Today -three days later -only a small "Of Interest" memorializes the young man. 

Even when the Student Senate -for probably the twentieth time since I've been at this school -calls for greater "alcohol education," no mention is made of why it is needed: two men are dead because of the irresponsibility of Notre Dame students. Maybe the prob­lem is that many Notre Dame students want to deny these deaths because they fear that someday it could be them ap­pearing as the unidentified driver in an Observer article. But the real problem is that those students do not want to take responsibility for their drinking. 
It is simple to have someone in the group stop drinking a couple of hours before leaving the party. It is simple to call a taxi, if necessary, or maybe even crash at the host's house. There are a 

Diversity of religion is rare at Notre Dame 
That's right. I did not have turkey on Thanksgiving Day. I had my meal in the dining hall. 

Patti Tripathi 
guest column 
Don't be shocked. Do you celebrate holi? ... or Diwali? .... or Rak­chabandhan? 
A mien of disbelief prevails when I say that I do not celebrate traditional American festivities. At the University of Notre Dame, where a non-Catholic is one of the three percent minority, the raised eyebrow and wide-eyed response is common because most are not ex­posed to people of diverse background. 
If it is not the appalled expression on the visage then it is an expression of sympathy. Other, however, choose dif­ferent routes: "Don't you believe in God?" the questioning begins. "I heard that Indians do not eat cows but what's wrong with a turkey? or "In my family it is the most celebrated holiday. What's wrong with your parents?" 
Having been raised in India with an upbringing that is not solely Catholic, I am a double minority on campus. In my case it is not a question of religious difference that prevents me from celebrating many of the holidays. Al­though I am not a Christian by birth, I attend Mass periodically. Therefore, a Christmas, a Thanksgiving, or an Easter as celebrated by most estab­lished Americans would be for me a treasured experience. (By established I mean an American who has not just immigrated to the country.) 
Many do not realize the difficulty of incorporating the practices of another culture into one's own. It is even more difficult for the first-generation im­

migrant (like me) who is ignorant of 
just what each holiday entails. Those 
who have been abroad can perhaps em­
pathize with the situation of the few 
"aliens" on campus. 
Then there are those who cannot 
relate because they insist on bombard­
ing with their narrow-minded com­
ments and assumptions. At Notre 
Dame, where the student body is com­
posed of persons of similar background 
and social standing, bigots rise up to 
assert their convictions. 
The reaction to holidays is a trivial 
example of intolerance. Annually, a let­
ter appears in my mailbox in order to 
remind me that I have checked my re­
ligious preference as "other" and that 
if I wish I may specify the title of my 
faith by checking the appropriate box. 
Is it necessary for me to put a tag on 
myself? Does God have a religion? 
Once in a while I come across persons 
who feel that "I can still be saved" if 
I were to convert to Christianity. 
Will changing my label bring me closer to God? I don't think so. The con­tent of a can of soup does not change if the label on the can were to be switched. 
-I am not out to convince everyone that they will reincarnate into ants if they do not pay heed to their Karmas. But it is annoying when people make it their prime motive to instill their beliefs in others. 
Mutual respect and tolerance is beyond culture, religion, and boundary. Most on the campus are quite accom­modating, discreet, and respectful of foreigners. I suggest to the others that they phrase questions or comments in a way that is not offensive. 
Patti Tripathi is a junior American Studies and English major. 
lot of ways to avoid driving drunk, but 
they all require the person to take a 
little responsibility for his or her ac­
tions. That, unfortunately, does not 
seem to be a common trait among stu­
dents here. 
From what I know of one of the 
drivers, there is some bitter irony in 
this. He was not one to drive drunk; he 
was outspokenly against such drivers. 
Unfortunately, he apparently mis­
judged his condition. But it only takes 
one such misjudgement. Yes, it could 
have been any of us -you, me, anyone 
who ever drinks could make this mis­
take. But if the "Notre Dame family" 
means anything, we should be helping 
each other to be responsible, especially 
when another's life is at risk. Human 
life is much more important than the 
location of student residencies. A much 
greater injustice was done to the two 
victims than ever has been done to stu­
dents by the administration. 
People will blame the alcohol policy for these deaths, and it may have been a contributing factor. ·But I hope stu­dents realize that the ultimate respon­sibility to drive sober lies with them, not Father Beauchamp or Father Mal­loy. And I hope students realize why the South Bend and County Police are eager to break up parties and minimize the number of drunks on the street. But most of all, I hope these tragic events will shake students up enough to ensure that no one need pick up The Observer and read about one ever again. 
Thomas S. Mowle Off-Campus 
Restructuring the ratio will benefit community 
Dear Editor: 
Mter reading for two days the arti­cles, letters and personals of outraged Howard Hall residents -in particular Bill Herzog's guest column of Dec. 9­I find a definite need to put into per­spective what the real issue is here. 
The issue is not whether or not Howard men should be ousted from their home, but whether or not more women should be admitted to the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. The answer to this is yes, more women should be ad­mitted. This is not only for their edu­cational benefit and the benefit of wo­men already on campus from the increased sense of belonging and sis­terhood that would result (similar to the great sense of brotherhood that exists now), but for the advantage it would provide the men also. 
In this respect, I am not referring, as Herzog did, to the fact that more women on campus means more possi­ble SYR dates. Since a majority of stu­dents at Notre Dame came from Cath­olic, single-sex high schools, college needs to be a place closer to the "real world" with respect to the femal&tnale ratio. A greater female element is desperately needed at Notre Dame to help shed the minority status of women, as well as to expose the male majority to viewpoints other than their own. 
While I do sympathize with the Howard residents who now have to move from the dorm they have come to know as home, I refuse to believe that their inconvenience is more impor­tant than the opportunity for more wo­men to be educated at this highly­regarded university. Let's put aside this selfishness, sexism or whatever else might be motivating our outrage. If Herzog is so repulsed by the thought of being asked in the future to a Howard SYR, he need only continue subscribing to his views on women and their role on campus to be assured that the ugly situation will never present itself. 
No matter where we live on campus, we are already "in" Notre Dame. We earned, and were given this opportunity to learn. Why not let others who have earned it have this chance and welcome them with open arms? 
Catherine Dey Pasquerilla West 

Toys for Tots drive benefits handicapped 
Dear Editor: 
On behalf of Notre Dame's Semper Fidelis Society and the staffs of Logan Center and Memorial Hospital, we would like to extend our personal grat­itude to all who aided the 1986 Toys for Tots campaign. Through the generous support of the Notre Dame community, over $2,000 worth of toys will be donated to the special children at Logan Center and Memorial Hospital this Christmas. 
Our efforts are part of a national campaign sponsored by the United States Marine Corps Reserve to bring the joy of a Christmas toy to needy children throughout the United States. At Logan Center and Memorial Hospi­tal, the donated toys will also help develop the skills of the handicapped as these children learn through playing. The dearest and most precious posses­sions of a child are his toys, and our individual small gifts together have brought great joy to many. 
Brian J. Dean Christine M. Glavin Project Officers, Toys for Tots Naval ROTC 
Help for fire victims is desperately needed 
Dear Editor: 
About ten days ago, a fire broke out in a house on North Eddy Street. The house was saved, but the interior was badly damaged. The owner, a divorcee, is now trying to clean it up so she can move back in with her four children before Christmas. 
She hasn't the money to hire labor. If anyone expects to be in this area be­tween now and Christmas, and would be willing to help wash and paint walls, it would be an immense assistance. 
Volunteers can contact me at 239­7651. 
Edward D. O'Connor, C.S.C. 

Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac .. nd Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the tree 
General Board 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Saint Mary's Editor ........................... Margie Kersten News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski 
Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan ·OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1888 
Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 10 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. untll3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 

NOTICES 
Wordprocssslng-Typlng 272-8827 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$$ PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just off ot N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­530 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
UNDERWATER ARCHAEOLOGY SEM­INAR: FEB 13-15, Lecture,Semlnar,ln­pooltralnlng-PADI Cart;INFO at Anthro Dn,3rd fl O'Shag;O.W. Cart req. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: THICK GOLD BANGLE BRACELET WITH ENGRAVED DESIGN. POSSIBLY LOST AT BRIDGET'S OR MORRISSEY. IF FOUND PLEASE CAILL 284-4351. 
LOST; WED. NIGHT,1V4, AT BRIDGET$, A LARGE BLACK SCARF WWHITE FLECKS. PLEASE CALL MEGAN 1242 TO RETURN IT AND I WILL LOVE YOU FOREVER. 
LOST: Twc sets of Arena b-ball tix, sec­tion 4, row 4, seats 8 and 9 . . . They weren't even mlnell Please save my Christmas, my trlendahlps, my wallet . . . Hfound call Linda x435511111 
HELP! I LOST MY BASKETBALL TICK­ETS (SECTION 106, ROW 7, SEAT 6) AT OR ON CAMPUS AFTER THE BYU GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SUSAN AT 3435. 
Whoever took my black scarf from Brldgets 11111, It you don't want to call, please drop It off at the loat&lound In LaFortune. Hmeans a lot to me. 
FOUND: BASKETBALL TIX IN ACC. SECTION 104 ROW 11 SEAT 23. CAILL MIKE 2371 TO CLAIM 
LOST: brown WALLET between ~1 Nleuwland and 208 Cushing on Wed. morning (the sunny day). It found, please call Jeff at 277-8940 soon. I'm getting hungry w~out H. 
LOST:Gold add-a-pearl necklace, small graduated pearls, H found call Tara at 1242. 
LOST: down ski jacket. Navy, ...ted&whHe stripes across chest. It found, call 288-2853 or return to lost and found, LaFortune. 
SEX -IS HARD TO GET SINCE I'M LOCKED OUTIII LOST NO BRASS KEY RING W/420 AND OS KEYS. PLEASE CALL 3468 IF FOUNDIII 
HELP/ HELP/ HELP! 
LOST: ONE BLUE BOOK BAG TUESDAY AT LUNCH 
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL 3131. I'LL FAIL FINALS WITHOUT IT. 
FOR RENT 
APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. CALL 1-982-8463 FOR DETAILS. ASK FOR CHAD. 
FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
Roommate needed to share house. $165tnonth. Private room. Grad. stuclent welcome. Call 289-8203 latenltea. 
Looking tor Apt In ChHown '86 Grad haa furnished apt tor sublease jan '87 to may '87 call 2002 
3-4 Bdrm., 2 bath, newly decorated house. Monitored security system. 922 Allen St. Call 234-6688. 
5 BDRM. HOUSE, 704 CORBY. $400MO. AVAILABLE JAN. 1. CALL 277-1569 OR 256-09~. 
WANTED 
NEED RIDERS TO LONG ISLAND. CAN LEAVE WED, 17DEC. MUST BE ABLE TO DRIVE STICK-SHIFT. CALL 277­3886. 
STAYING HERE FOR BREAK? LIKE CATS? WANT TO MAKE SOME EASY $? WE NEED SOMEONE TO CAT-SIT 12!.!4-V4. ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS VISIT OUR TWO CATS DAILY TO FEED AND PET THEM. TERMS NEGOTI­ABLE. IF YOU CAN HELP US OUT, CALL 239-5799 (DAYS) OR 233-9106 (EVES.) 
Campus travel representative needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Earn money, tree travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call inter-Campus Programs at 1-800-433-7747 for details and Information mailer. 

Need ride to New York. Am graduating and have much luggage so would like to be only rider. Will PAY ALL GAS and bake DELICIOUS COOKIES. Call Tracy 233-9806. 
Wanted: Swim Instructors tor Red Cross Beginners Classes. Saturday Mornings andt>r Weekday Evenings. Start In Jan­uary. Volunteers please call LOGAN Recreation: Bill Thomas -289-4831 
Helpl I need rides to and from Dayton tor break. It you can help either way, call Mark X2072. Will pa)l'!lhare expanses. 
I need ride to MPLS. Can leave 18th or 19th will share expanses. Call Phil 4056 
Need someone who has access to van to drive me eastward. Call Motel 6 and ask lor Harriett Howells, Room 166. 
NEEDED: TWO ONE-WAY RIDES TO D.C., NORTHERN VA. AREA --share ex­penses, rental car H necessary. LEAVE SAT. 12-20 pre!. CALL Tim £3488 or Mlck £1770. 
Ride Needed Boston Area tor Break John x3853 
NEED RIDE TO SE FLORIDA LEAVING 12119. WILL SHARE $$. CALL 263-3693 ASAP. 
HELPII NEED A RIDE TO PARK RIDGE OR O'HARE, CAN LEAVE THE 19 OR 
20. CALL KERRY X3032. THANKS! 
FOR SALE 
FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses, hardwood convertible frames and acces­sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South Michigan St. 233-8176. 
FOR SALE: CABER SKi"BOOTS(7112) CALL PAT 1581 
1 way air ticket SB to BALTO. Jan.5. $45. 272-4321. 
FOR SALE: 1982 CHEVETTE. 4 speed, AtM'M, sunroof. $1895. Call Dan: 239­7943 or 234-8984. 
A REAL CHRISTMAS PRESENT: '85 Toyota Fiesta Van Conversion with EFI, auto, overdrive (25mpg), ps, pb, pw, pi, armm star. caas, dual almeat, retrig, slvobrgndy. Only 11k miles, warranty, 1 owner. Top quality conversion In perfect cond~lon. An $18k value but will accept reasonable onar around $13k by Mon., Dec. 15. Financing available. See and drive at NO Credit Union 8:30-4:30. Evenings 233-1950. A BEST BUY. ACT NOW. 
Turntable, Pioneer PL518, direct drive, semiautomatic with audio, technlca cartridge. $50. Call attar 5p.m. 233-5496. 
................................................................ 
TICKETS 
Need GAs lorN. Carolina and Duke. Call Blll,2008 
Neeo·3~4.'Nc"rixs·:·;:;~~;~..;;;;ii··;:;;dd 
2551 

PERSONALS 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: A step-by-step guide to Greencard !rom F/JH Visas. For details, send refundable $1 (p&h): Immigration Publications, P.O. Box 515991 , Dept 135, Dallas, TX 75251. 
................................................................ 
SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$111 PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a weak, 1o­530 
Available 2nd semester & tall '87 4Br house tumlahed, secure 4-5 stu­denta,$440.00tnonth You pay utiiHies, call Geoff or Mary 288-7276 
TWO RIDERS GOING EAST ALONG 1­90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO AGAIN. IF YOU CAN BRING US ALONG PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 4 PM FRIDAY AND MONEY NO PROBLEM. 
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED. CALL 259-8822 OR 259­3187. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, RARE OEM Sal'll, Ntlncy, Rebelle, Kllthryn, Mom 
I Dlld 
to all who put up ~h me during the lest 
two months THANK YOU. You helped me so much. Gert 
SENIORS -SENIORS -SENIORS SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITAnONAL INTERVIEWS DEADUNE: DECEMBER 111, 11118. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. 
SENIORS -SENIORS -8ENIORS SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER INVITAnONAL INTERVIEWS DEADUNE: DECEMBER. 111, 11118. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. 
SENIORS -SENIORS -SENIORS SIQN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING SEMESTER tNVITAnONAL INTERVIEWS DEADLINE: DECEMBER 18, 11188. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES. 
CAMERATA SINGERS of N.D. tame DEBUT... A CONCERT OF SACRED MUSIC This Sunday atB:OO p.m. Moreau Seminary Chapel 
Gays, the lady In the Saint Mary's dining hall Cheer upl You're wonderful, and always have been. Merry Chrlstmaslll SMC OBSERVER STAFF 
PEGGY: Happy Blrthdayl-your gate run­ner. 
I need a ride to CONNECTICUT! Preferably Fairfield County or Westchester, N.Y. area. Can leave FRI. CALL TOM 1945 
Long live the OAK. Forever Immortal. 

Hi Panl Season's Greetings from NJ. How's the weather In Texas? Miss ya, MB 
MERRY CHRISTMAS Y'ALLt Maura, Babe, Mike, Alex, Blob, Colleen, Lisa, Monica, Mar, Madge, Terry, Carrie, 
DOME-OPOLY A Great Christmas Glftl 

................................................................ 
DOME-OPOLY An ND-SMC Board Game... tor alumni who have "everything" 
DOME-OPOLY It's new.~·s tun, and It's available tor Christmas at the ND-SMC Bookstores 
DOME-OPOLY A Great Christmas Glftl 

The Amazing... The Awesome... The Ultraharrncnlc... NOTRE DAME CAMERATA SINGERS live at the Moreau Seminary Chapel one engagement only, Sunday, December 14, 8 p.m. Free admission. Be there or 
Btlat. 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat Weekend coming Feb 6-8 Applications Available Wed Jan 14 due Fn Jan 23 Campus Ministry Dnlce Badin Hall Questions? Contact Br. Bonaventure 239-7353, Sr. Jo Glarrante 239-5740 or Jim Wlmbiscus 263-2091 
DON'T YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF? 
NO Encounter Weekend 

Fn, Feb 6 --Sat, Feb 8 Questions? Br. Bonaventure 239-7353 or Jim Wlmblscus 283-2091 
10th ANNUAL CHRISTMAS NAZZ Saturday, December 13th. 7:00 -?Center tor Social Concerns THE GRINCH, ORIGINAL MUSIC, FREE COOKIES & HOT COCOA. .. Become part ot the tradition. •christmas Music, Christmas Magic. . . • 
DAMSEL IN DISTRESS! I NEED A RIDE FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK Al'IYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF BINGHAMTON, SYRACUSE, OR EUMIRA, NY. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY, DEC. 19, AFTER 
1:00 PM. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CAILL ERIN AT 3706. 
YO QLORII HAPPY BIRTHDAY ON THE BtQ ONEill 
Love, 
D8d, Lllrry I Rob 
PLEASE, HELP MEII NEED A RIDE TO PHILA. OVER BREAK. WILLING TO SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL KIM AT 1284 
GOING EAST FOR X-MAS & NEED A RIDE TO CT? I'M LEAVING DEC. 16 AFTER 10AM OR EARLY AM DEC 17. CALL CARRIE AT SMC 4288 ASAP. 
TO THE GUYS IN 313 ALUMNI, MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEARI LOVE THE GREATEST GIRLFRIEND IN THE WORLD! 
GOING EAST FOR X-MAS & NEED A RIDE TO CT? I'M LEAVING DEC. 16 AFTER 10AM OR EARLY AM DEC 17. CALL CARRIE AT SMC4286 ASAP 
I LIKE togas, skinny dipping, pic-nic tables, beaches, car trunks, fireplaces with WENS... Love, LEGS I MISS YOUI 
HEY KELLY LOVE Happy Birthday Happy Birthday Yeah well, so, ah... How do you like the campus? Looking forward to Sat. nile. love BMW 
Merry Christmas to Father Hesburghl 
Merry Christmas to Father Malloy! 
Merry Christmas to all Redheads! 
Merry Christmas to all Democratsl 

................................................................ 
Merry Christmas to David Leal 

To the entire staff of 
The ObHrver 
HAPPY HOLIDAYS from the e-1-c 
NJ CLUB BUS $90 SIGNUPS THURS & FRI LAFOR­TUNE LOBBY 6-7 PM QUESTIONS CALL JOHN 2215 OR DEB 284-5147 
XMAS ·sAB •FOOD •FUN •NSHP ·xMAS ·sNOW •FOOD •cLASSES OF 8&99 •xMAS Come to the esc for a study break or ater the Glee Club Concert lor SLEIGH RIDES, COCOA, COOKIES, XMAS MUSIC from 9 -? tonight II SNOW •tSO •FOOD •FUN •NSHP ·xMAS •FOOD ·sNOW •FUN ·sAB •FUN •SNOW 
HARD ROCK CAFE FINAL NOTICEIll SWEATSHIRTS FOR ND-SMC NOW INI AVAILABLE IN L&XL. CALL 277-2786 OR AT SMC X-MAS BAZAAR IN LEMAN$ 
................................................................ 
How were all the men with their puckered 
lips at Brldgets. Atrue blue friend OUGHT 
TO RETURN THE FAVOR TO A WON­
DERFULL BUDDY LIKE PATTI 
TRIPATHI. SOUND THE ALARM 
BEFORE. HAPPY BIRTHOAYII 
0 FREE FOOD FREE FOOD THEODORE$ STUDY BREAK C SATURDAY 8-11 
D OJ{)ANCING THEODORE$ STUDY BREAK C SATURDAY 8-11 
CLOSE CORBY NOT CARROLLIIII 
CARROLL HALL-How much further off­campus do they want us? 
Killeen, Krista, Kellle, Ann, Donna, Andrea, Marl, Jimmy, Brian, John, Andy, AI, Danny, and all "THE QUINr parilera: You're the best friends anyone could ask fori Have a great vacation, I'll miss you all very much. Merry Christmas and stay aatell Love, Anne-Marie 
ANDY FENOGLIO, JIM GALLAGHER, CAREY GELS, KATHLEEN HOGAN, MATT HONKANEN, NARCISO JARAMILLO, MICHAEL NAUGHTON, KHAUL SHALABI, ANNE WALTON ­See Shlrf8)' In Th• ObHrVer oftlce. 
KELLY & PETER-FINITE IS AUMOST OVER. HASN'T IT BEEN LOVELY? I'LL MISS OUR TALKS AUMOST AS MUCH AS THOSE BILLOWING TUFTS. 
MOSES-SO I'M A LmLE EARLY. AT LEAST I REMEMBERED. HAPPY BIRTHDAY AND THANKS FOR EVERY­THING. YOUR FAVORITE (OCCASIONALLY HYSTERICAL) GROUPIE. 
NEED RIDE TO NHeOSTON FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE 12119 PM. WILL HELP WITH DRIVING AND $$. CAILL PAT, 277-6451. 
HELPIII I need to borrow a 12-strlng guitar to play at the CHRISTMAS NAZZ on Sat. Please call Jeff at 232-5478 or Mike at 2511 Kyou can LEND one. Please help me out. 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS ALL WHO RECEIVED COLOR PORTRAITS FROM DOGBOOK PICTURES IF YOU RECEIVED A PIC­TURE THAT IS INCORRECT PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE WE WILL SORT IT OUT AND RETURN THEM AFTER BREAK. WE'RE SORRY FOR THE MISTAKE. THE PIC­TURE MAN HAS BEEN WORKING MUCH TOO HARDI JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
Stud, Here's to new baglnnlnge. All my love, Aca. 
Happy Birthday Laurie Hollenbeck Wish we could be there to calebrate w~h you I 
Love, Aunt Soph and Uncle Mad 
Lllur18 Hollenbeck Happy Birthday little sial Love ya lots, ME 
MERRY CHRISTMAS KATIE! Party after Finals? -Dave. 
Final Soore: BURNS CONCEDES DEFEAT TO RAUCKHORST In rain, snow, Stela, or Commons: You'll always be Nc. 1. Merry Christmas 
ANDRE THEISEN: WORLD TOUR 87 ANDRE MEETS BIG BEN -THE BATTLE OF THE GIANTS Remember: Wear Protection. Your collerbone may still be fragile. Merry Christmas and we'll see you In (hell) August of 87. 
Esther Ivory: Hang In there! Only one more week and we're home to wonderful Mpls. Good luck on finals and Merry Christmas! I ~ve, Your roomie 
Jim, hang In there... You'll make ill Love, K 
On the first Noel, The sailor did sing, When I see you again I'll give you my ring. Noel, Noel, who a Stud has met, Should know batter than Dating an al­phabet. Noel, Noel, I love The way you tawk, Never go jogging In Central Pawk. 
MERRY CHRISTMAS Trout Semicircle Chin Wu Yo Yo Yo Flam 
0 
Stud Kath WE LOVE YOUI Candy & Brltch 
STAYING IN SOUTH BEND UNTIL MON.22ND???? I NEED RIDERS TO ANYWHERE ALONG 1-80 EAST, FINAL DESTINATION IS NJ Ill PLEASE CALL SUE AT 277-C0620 m•••• 
ANGEL JUDY God's £ Is unlisted. Expe­rience Heaven to flnd out. BILL KEN­NEDY 
HEY Noel, Noreen, Diane, Sheila, Karen, Jeff, Matt, Chip, Bill, Steve, Pat, Matt and Tom-Thanks for making this the ba­st...love,Kim. 
Moi,Coi,Lynn,Lee,Peg and Elaine--miss y'alll...me 
TED BENCHIK: Avoid public remarks on things like warm beer next semester, and the English should love you. We dol Bon voyage, Dlanne,Beth,Megan, Mlc­hele,Cindy. 
HEATHER, GOOD LUCK ON FINALS NEXT WEEKI KEEP SMILING I KNOW YOU WILL DO WELLI MERRY CHRISTMAS! LOVE YOUR PANGBORN PANDA 
JIM RILEY, MERRY CHRISTMASIII p.s.Do you want to do a story? 
Merry Christmas to the Riley's, Szymanski's, Springer's, Asklar's, and Bongomo's. 
BLmEDI 
Dear Mark, 
Since before our freshmen year (Friday, July 20, 1984, to be exact), our paths have paralleled. 
But I'll be talking a D.C. detour... So there'll be a by-pass of the 
"What's new w~h you?" 
South lunches 
"Prophetic" shop talk 
More shop talk 
I'll miss you. Merry Christmas! 
Love, 
Your favorite redheaded Observer~e 
Rob I'm happy I came. Love Anne 
ATTENTION ALL NO and SMC WOMEN Talk to a true sex godI Don't be shy. Call Dave Rupple at 3810 His B-Day Is to­morrow! Call and wish him a happy one. 
Jackie, Beth, Kathleen, and Cindy... Luck on Finals. And have a merry Christmas! love, Kelly 
Fr. Tyson: Now...Let's malke Dillon a MALE dormI A concerned Dog 
HEY ALUMNI HALLII (IDIOTS) Next time get your stupid facta straight FACT:Nioodemua-205 Alumni FACT:Kuehl-150 Alumni Think before you open your trap. GO PANGBORNII (FUH(A)) 
DC: Thanks tor all the personals this se­mester. Have tun In K-town (DEC. 3011) Get ready tor Sr. Ber next year II Love, your Observer Sports Fanteay 
Happy Birthday STEVE MEGAR­GEEIIIIIII 
Betsy B. A birthday wish That comes to you From the heart Of you know who Happy Birthday! Shakey 
TO THE WOMAN IN JTB'a CLASS: HE HAD WHAT IN HIS TEETH? WHY? YOU DID WHAT WITH A RAZOR? KEEP YOUR MIND ON CHEM-THERE'LL BE NO VISITS TO THE PFI I WUV HIMI CIAO-KAPS 
MERRY CHRISTMAS GREG SMITHIIIII 
Krlatl Irene Und, Thank you tor being my very dearest friend In the whole world. As Christmas Is now upon us, 1hope that you may be able to tully experience His love and joy In all that you do. We miss you very much. Talks good care ot your­asH. Kevin 
I have a feeling the good news Ia coming -1 just better be the first one to find out when you get thatletterl Good lucki-Pete 
ANNE MEG LAURA ot LeMans Hall! Have a great Christmas! Love, the guys In Pangborn Section 4 
............................................................... 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY, DAVIDIII HOPE THIS BRIGHTENS YOUR DAYI GOOD LUCK ON THOSE TEE'S! SEE YOU sobNI LOVE, CHERYL ANN 
Congrats, Lyons lnterhall Volleyball Champsi Good job, Kathleen, Carie, Kathy, Kathy, Julie and Kathy! Uhh, Carie, you gotte work on that serve... 
Hey, Farley 2 Volleyball teaml Thanks lor showing up. We all had tests to study lor, too. Forfeiting Is the easiest way to losel 
KT Walsh-Thanks tor helping me main­tain my san~ at the Dome! Love-JMW 
Mark P.-Have a great X-Mas I Love your Jan. Hopeful 
Hey SHEBA-0, Did U know that BONO Is gay 2? Merry Christmas, love one ducky chlcl 
BETTY-LOU, I LOVE YOU and yea this note will really quack me upl 
Dan O'Connor, See you over Christmas break,Luv your sial 
NEW PROPOSAL-TURN CORBY HALL TO GRAD HOUSING AND GIVE CAR­ROLL BACK TO THE VERMIN. 
CARROLL GOT TOOLED! 

Need rldel'll to AKR<:ANTON Sid x3223 
ANNE Good luck on your finals (not that you 
need any) 

and have a Merry Christmas, too 
JR 
NEED A RIDE TO PHILA. WILL SHARE EXPENSES JOE-289-3934 
CATHY S. MY HTH AND SMC CHIC­DON'T FORGET I LOVE YOUI­HANNEGAN 
LAURIE HOllENBECK Happy Birthday Love, Mom & Dad PS Remember your curfew 
SHIRLEY-Hope your birthday Is extra specially won­derful. You deserve H. 
Love ya lots, 
Lisa I, Lisa II, & Maria 
Notice Margetstein and F~gabber, STOPI You're making all of us sick. AND... NO MORE LOVE IN THE AFTER­NOONIII BE WED or BE GONE.....Biechhhhl 
DESPERATELY NEED RIDERS! It I can't flnd riders to WASHINGTON D.C. after finals (Friday or Saturday) I'll have to spend another crummy vacation In Chicago. Call me at £4638. 
FRANZ MARC AFFICIONADO THANXII I WANT TO THANK YOU IN PERSON, THOUGH... WHO ARE YOU? AL­PHAVILLE FAN 
BOB "EAGLE EYE" WHITE-DID YOU KNOW IT WAS MY FIRST TIME? IN PERSONALS, YOU PERVERT. ANYWAY, YOU DID SOUND THAT DESPERATE. YOU CAN SKIP THE KOOL-AID. BRUCE IS THE ONLY BOSS. LEARN TO SPELL MY NAME OR YOU'LL NEVER GET ANYWHERE IN THIS DEPARTMENT. LIFE ENDS ABOVE GROUND. 
MARILYN-"HEUPFUL?" ARE YOU GOING HOME FOR BREAK? CALL ME IF YOU NEED A RIDE. MUST BE WILL­ING TO SHARE EXPENSES. LOOKING FOR A HUSBAND? A FELLOW HOOSIER PERSONALS ABUSER 
YO-SOUTH BEND IS A DESOLATE WASTELAND. ENJOY YOUR CHRISTMAS COMESTIBLES. A CROSS BETWEEN A HOSEA AND A LOSER... 
WE'LL MISS YOU PERKY. TRY NOT TO BEDEVIL WASHINGTON. MERRY CHRISTMAS 
Merry Chr1stmas, News Departmant. Nexl publishing date: Jan. 15, 1987. See you then. -The News Editors. 
Merry Christmas, Lynnsey. I guess this Is good-bye, at least tor awhile. Take care. Love, Mark P.S. Say hello to Ronnie tor me. 
....ota.rver &porta Dept.·­Thank YOU tor a great semester. Marty, Marty and Pete, you've really made a dlflerence. good luck to everyone with finals. 
Have a Happy Christmas 
OK, Day Editor Priestesses. I've walked on water but where did ~get me? Anyway you tag teamers have a good Christmas. 
-your God 
Mel, your hippo awaits 
Dee, a tubtul of Jello a day keeps boredom away! 
see CLASSIFIEDS, page 11 




The Observer -December 12. 1986 
Clothes to their 






limit •• 
TOM TIERNEY McClaren was vital to the success features writer 
of the bands that were to become 
the focal point of the punk ex­
Ever since the rise and fall of plosion. Kids Identified with punk rock In England during the bands like the Clash, Sex Pistols, period from 1976-78, the British Stiff Little Fingers and Genera­music scene has been first, last tion X In their rebellion against and always tied to fashion. This their parents and against their Is nowhere better demonstrated parents' music, which had be­than In a song by the Fine Young come the arena rock that was so Cannibals called "Time Isn't popular In the mid-1970's. Kind," whose lyrics Include "I changed my name, I changed my All kinds ofgroups of.flds were clothes," Implying that one's brought together under the Identity hinges as much on one's umbrella of PUNK. There were clothes as one's name. fascists and anarchists, 
capitalists and communists, 
This Is an attitude that Is from both the lower and middle uniquely a product of British classes, and while they often youth culture. In America, no fought among themselves, there band would ever claim that what was something that they all you wear Is on a par with who shared, and that was their you are. An American youth's clothes. Identity Is not determined by the clothes he or she wears, as Is the Suddenly, It was cool to wear case In the U.K. leather jackets and torn clothing 
with-spiked hair and pierced ap­
Malcolm McClaren, who was pendages. What had begun as a the manager of the Sex Pistols, legitimate form of rebellion had claims that he Invented punk become a marketable fashion rock In order to publicize ~Is commodity. McClaren became shop that specialized In the rich by promoting bands like the clothes worn by bands like the Sex Pistols as the saviors of rock Clash and Sex Pistols; In doing 'n' roll and more importantly, by so. he was Instrumental In creat­selling the clothes worn by the Ing the attitude In England that bands to a youth market eager music equals fashion and that to consume. fashion Is the main part of Iden­Due to Its inherently Vvlatile tity. While this claim remains nature, punk rock quickly self­debatable. the fact remains that destructed, but the packaging of 


The aftermath of the Punk movement in Britian 
punk as a marketable product continues; the 'punk rockers' of London are now as much a part of British tourism as the Queen and the rest of the Royal Family. 


Since 1978, there has been a succession of musiC/fashion waves In Britain, all ofwhich have been promoted based on the model of the punk move~t. Included in these movements are the two-tone movement, the new romantics, gloom rock and the current soul boy craze. One result of this is that the British music scene Is as much con­cerned with fashion today as It ever was. 
America has been relatively unaffected by punk and the other British music movements, ex­cept in isolated areas. There are several reasons for this. First of all, American young people, un­like their British counterparts, do not equate their Identity with their clothes and their clothes with those of their favorite band, at least to any large degree. 
Secondly, the British have a television show called "Top of the Pops" that Is shown nation­wide and runs down the British Top 40 from the previous week, featuring a few of the artists from that week's charts. This gives kids a chance to see their favorite artists as well as the latest sensa­tions from London. If a band looks cool and makes a good Im­pression, their sales can skyrock­et. and song is artificially created. the way it does in Manchester. 
Radio can therefore create new As a result. these new move­
Lastly, the fact that England Is musiC/fashion movements ments never receive the publicity a small country both In popula­simply by identifying them as they need to become nationwide tion and geographically, In com­such and by playing the singles phenomenons, like they are in parison to America, is the most by the groups that are sup­the U.K., and the bands that are Important factor In the ease with posedly part of this new move­a part of them wallow In relative which fashion movements take ment. Then, due to England's obscurity in this country. hold In the U.K. London radio relatively small size, a band has the ability to broadcast es­needs to sell only a small num­In other words, the current sentially nationwide and since ber of singles to make the Top British music scene Is London Is the cultural center of 40. Then, they are featured on predominantly concerned with England, the kids from outside "Top of the Pops" and their fashion and the bands that are a of London pay close attention to record sales Increase exponen­part of It, while beginning as un­what is cool in the city. In other tially. derground or cult bands, quickly words, people all across England become popular nationwide as a are exposed to the same media America's large size and rela­result ofEngland's small size and and these sources of culture tive diversity of both people and small number of media sources. have become very powerful In media sources make It virtually The American scene, on the shaping taste. Impossible for such music and other hand, Is anti-fashion for 
fashion waves to enjoy the large the most part and Its bands stay 
If London's Capitol Radio scale popularity they do In En­relatively obscure because of decides to add a song to Its gland. What Is popular In New America's large size, diversity of playlist. an Immeasurable Im­York or Los Angeles just doesn't population, and conservatism of pact on the fortunes of that band catch on In Des Moines or Peoria Its media. 
Scene-Page 2

The Observer --December 12, 1986 
the soul
Ribs and Blues: alternative 

GREG DEFILIPPO, EMMET MURPHY, TIMBO HEALY features writers 
If you feel like us, you're start­Ing to get tired ofthe usual Friday night grind. You know -a little bar or party hopping, some drinking, etc. Well, we've got an alternative for you; a relaxing evening at Ribs and Blues where you can e'1Joy the best rhythm and blues and soul food In the area. 
The Bar Beat 
~lflflflf (outoffou<J 
It all started one Friday night. We were sitting around wonder­Ing what we could do to get away from the usual routine. When suddenly, Emmet had a flash­back of his childhood In the streets of Chicago. When he was young, he spent many late nights at bars and clubs waiting for his father's blues band to play the last of their many long sets. Al­though It was a rough life, Em­met loved the music and could never get It out ofhis head. While re-living this child hood memory he was In a trance for more than one-half an hour when we decided we better do something. We figured that If he heard some good rhythm and blues maybe he would snap out of it. So we headed out for "Michlana's Home of the Blues." Ribs and Blues. 

Well, we were right. As soon as we entered the front door the pulsating blues beat produced by "Peter and the Rhythm Flames" brought Emmet back to reality. After relaxing to a couple of sets of fantastic rhythm and blues music, we started to get a little hungry. We decided to try a bit of everything, which at Ribs and Blues, Isn't a bad Idea. The ribs and rib tips were excellent. The meal was tender and smot­hered In a sauce that was not too hot but was full of great barbe­cued flavor. 
The catfish was equally satis­fying. It was tender and juicy like the ribs and had fantastic batter coating. Each of these were served In huge portions with fries, cole slaw and bread. 
After devouring these deli­cious entrees, a Mexican­American hitchhiker who hap­pened to be sitting near us leaned over and suggested that we try the pig ear sandwich. At first we weren't to sure, but being the crazy guys we are, we went ahead and ordered it. Still curious, Bill Argenta asked "Hey, what's In this pig ear sandwich," and Peter Dames, the owner, responded "It's Pig ear." We all eagerly awaited Its arrival at the table and when It finally arrived we knew we were In trouble. It iooked, smelled, tasted, and was, a pig ear sandwich. After trying It we all decided to stick with the ribs and catfish. But, who knows, If you like soul food maybe pig ear Is the meal for you. After all, as Peter Dames stated, "It's real soul." 
Besides this delicious dinner menu, Ribs and Blues, also has soul food lunches, served after 11 a.m. which Include ham hocks, pork steak, cubed steak, mashed or sweet potatoes, greens, corn bread, and much more. All of these selections are moderately priced and served In huge portions that would fill anyone's desires. 
The overall atmosphere Is laid­back and Inviting, but also very Interesting. The crowd consists of many different types ofpeople and everyone seems to get along great. While we were there, Joe "The Magnet" Keller got out on the dance floor and soon there were people ofall ages and back­grounds out there dancing with him. This friendly atmosphere Is added to by the generosity and hospitality of Peter Dames and the waitresses. It's a great change from the hectic, cold scene that some of the popular bars seem to produce. Ribs and Blues, overall, Is a place where you can kick-back and forget that endless stream of tests and papers, and really relax to some excellent rhythm and blues bands. 
During the month of Decem­ber, there will be Jive bands from Chicago on Thursday through Sunday nights. There Is a $.3 cover charge but It Is well worth It and yes, they do serve alcohol. 
The music starts around 9:.30 get there. go south on .31 and p.m., so get there a little early take a right on Western Avenue. and e'1Joy the great soul food The address Is .3201 Western Av­and the relaxing blues sound. To enue. 

The RJthm Flames show their stuff at Ribs and Blues 


The Observer --December 12, 1986 Scene-Page 3 
'Solar Babies' is an annoying failure· 
SUSAN CLEMENTS features writer 

Solar Babies -even the name has an Irritating ring to it. 
The title was aptly chosen. Like the movie It repreresents, the title gives ab· solutely no clue to Its meaning. and you're not really sure If you want a clue to figure out this mystery. After all. who would guess that the Solar Babies are the members of a future hockey-on-roller­skates team chosen to save the world? 
Movie revlew~
1
Solar Babies . ~·C
*(out of four) I 

Released to the discredit of Brookslllms studios, the 111m attempts to achieve a jumble of effects, but Is destroyed from the outset by the story It tells. 
Of all the problems the movie has, the 
most dismaying Is Its failure to make any 
sense. The viewer emerges from the 
theater believing -or at least wishing -that 
he just spent an hour and a half staring 
at a blank screen. The main plot revolves 
around a group of teenagers who roller­
skate their way through an annoying ad­
venture In quest of a floating luminescent 
ball. 

Sound annoying? Wait, there's more. 
The movie takes place In the future, after 
some horrifying event has deprived the 
earth of rain and all its oceans and seas 
have dried up. It Is an ugly place, my 
friends, and If this movie were a predic­
tion I would strongly advise against any 
attempt to live beyond the next I00 years 
or so. 

The world by then has become an out­landish jumble of very weird things. Screenplay writers Walon Green and Douglas Metrov make no attempt to ex­plain the reason behind the things they throw Into the future. 
The main characters are for some rea­son doomed to live In an Orwellian or­phanage, entire cities are constructed from junk. and there are no real people -only sadistic military leaders, -zombie-like laborers, and a strange tribe of undeter-

mined origin living In tin wigwams. If none of these get you, the good guys will. Of the main characters, the least an­noying is a glowing sphere that serves the double role of magical hockey puck and savior of the world. 
I say "annoying" because none of the characters come across convincingly or hit home with any force. This is due In part to the utter ridiculousness of the world they Inhabit; it becomes Impossible to take seriously anything they say. 

Much of the cast consists of castaways from floundering TV series, and the only one who evokes any sympathy at all Is Lukas Haas, who plays the lnsuppres­sable Daniel. His Is the most convincing character, which may stem from the fact that. as the youngest member of the cast. he comes closest to believing In the pos­sibility of the situation. 
But none of this matters, because after the movie you can hardly remember the faces of the characters, let alone their names. The sad thing Is that a group of better actors could have done little more with the script. 
Director Alan Johnson falls In the her­culean task of drawing credibility out of the cast. and the movie's average pace seems to drag on under the weight of the given plot. The special effects are wasted on such things as creative torture devices, which do come off as pretty dis· gusting. and thus, I suppose, succeed. The little ball Bodhl Is cute and zings around with animation, but It looks like something that fell out of a Christmas special. and doesn't really belong In this warped world. 
There Is, of course, some underlying meaning to the film--something symbolic about the search for the savior that will restore water to the earth--but the viewer has no desire to remember, let alone analyze, such an Irritating movie. Which Is sad, because with the simple substltu· tlon of a totally different story line and the replacement of a few actors, Solar Babies (oops, I guess we need a new name, too) might even be a decent movie. As It stands, however, the only way I'd recommend going to see It Is If you plan to wander Into the showing of another movie. 

ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Bend 
272·7144 
An Irish Blessing on your 
20th Birthday, Meaghan.
•  Love always,  
"May God hold you in the  Mother, Dad,  
Palm of His Hand."  Stephanie and Christopher  

SOUTH SHORE LINE 
Take it To Chicago For 
$8.15 
(RTA to O'Hare for $1) 
Call 233-3111 
ForScheduleJnformation 
WANTED 

for being born 12-13-67 
Happy 19th B-Day Maggie Wetterich 

Surprise! 
Love, 
Mom, Dad, Nancy 

Help Prevent Birth Defects ~ Support the 
\Ji' ~J.9DK9.tRJ~ 
THIS SPACE CONTAtBlJTED BY THE PUBliSHER 
Focus 
on
America's 
Future 



The Observer--December 12,-1986 Scene-Page 4 

These carolers serenade diners at South Dining Hall. 
Saint Mary's students Julie Gschwind and Theresa Smith visit with Santa Christmas decorations fill a stand at the Saint (Richard Measell) In LeMans Hall. 
+ . 

The Observer --December 12, 1986 Scene-Page 5 

Freshman Vlk Berberl takes a break from studying. 
Photography by Dam/en Chin. 
-

Eileen Sandeen tends the UNICEF stand In the lobby ofMemorial Library. 

The Observer --December 12, 1986 Scene-Page 6 
Theory bette~ on wax than paper 
MARY JACOBY features editor 
All right, so the latest Game Theory album is a little old. Released this summer, it was one of the brighter spots in my album collection. It deserves some at­tention, so here goes. 


Records 

The Big Shot Chronicles 
GameTheo..Y 
The Big Shot Chronicles fol­lows pretty faithfully in the footsteps of its predecessor, Real Nighttime. As it seems to go with good albums and the American buying public, practically no one heard Real Nighttime. That's a shame, because if people could get past the unfamiliarity with the group they'd probably like what they found; Game Theory's sound is sweetly complex and full of resonance and bouncy pop rhythms. 

Game Theory consists of two men and two women, led by guitarist and lead vocalist Scott Miller of the self described "miserable whine." It's true Mil­ler's voice is somewhat high, but it lends to the uniqueness of the group's sound and punctuates their well crafted songs. 
And perhaps the biggest influ­ence on their sound --and it's defintely a positive one at that --is the production of Mitch Easter who worked on The Big Shot Chronicles as well as the last al­bum. Easter, a pop wizard who's worked wonders with his own group, Let's Active, as well as others such as R. E. M., has pro­vided a definition and cohesive­ness not apparent in Game The­ory's earlier releases. 
The album's opener, "Here It Is Tomorrow," is a powerful, forceful song--for Game Theory, at least. Building up from a monorhythmic drums, guitar and Miller's angry voice, the song bursts into a pop plateau in the chorus with harmony, keyboards and ringing guitars. 
Miller, with his "miserable whine," stretches it a bit when he trys to sound angry, but his voice knows how to plead and explain on the beautiful slower songs such as "Where You Going Northern," "Regenisraen" and the album's last song, "Like a Girl Jesus." "Regenisraen" ·in partic­ular will kill you with it's harp­like, solitary guitar, the sad alienated vocals and the choir of harmony in the chorus. Similar­ly, "Like a Girl Jesus," with its slow, string-by-sting beginning, builds up with echoes and effects until the drums and guitar kick it into a deep, ringing chorus. 
But the majority of Game The­ory's songs are punchy pop songs which bounce between drums and guitars--punctuated by keyboards and harmonies-­which will hook listeners into their sound after a couple of spins. But that's the key --you have to hear it first. 

Warning: CVB discovers masks in reverse 
KEVIN WALSH the '80s. Another friend of mine the Doors too, but that's another chances. This album is not for New Sincerity. It also sounds a features writer discounts CVB because he story. In "Lulu Land," written by those who think a musical risk is heck of a lot like a bunch of your claims he doesn't understand the someone named Paul Mac Kinney buying the crazy new Boston al­funniest friends screwing around 
I met a really unique guy last humor. They've gained an unfor­in the '60s, they lift a line from bum or Bon Jovi's wild rockin' in a studio --sometimes funny, year through sort of a friend-of­tunate reputation as a "humor "The Ballad of John and Yoko" new single. The weird sense of sometimes indulgent some­a-friend situation and after a little band" but It looks like on their -"You don't take nothin' with you humor and the fiddle might put times stupid, surprisingly talking we discovered that we latest effort at least they're trying but your soul... " and they take a some people off from CVB, but serious, with a few flashes of bril­had a lot in common musically. to beat that rap. hint from "I am The Walrus" -try to think of their new album liance thrown in just to keep you The band that he was heavily into If I had to title this untitled al­"Everybody Smoke Pot" chorus as sort of a Spinal Tap for the listening. at that time was camper Van bum, I might call it Camper Van for a weird oomp-pa-pa chorus. Beethoven. Beethoven Discovers Backwards "Surprise Truck" tears a page 
"They're great," I remember MasKing. There's at least four from Abbey Road's second side. songs on this that use that studio They aren't strictly a revivalist trick, including the two cover ver­band though. They're separated 


Records 
sions. The last song on the first from that by their lack of rever­side is "Stairway to Heavan (sic)" ence for the stuff. Oh yeah, which I think is that old warhorse they're also good at it.
Beethoven 

played backwards without vo­Some of the earlier albums 
cals, with the guys improvising . were close to half instrumentals. him saying to me,"I don't know over it. I don't really know though There are only four bona-fide in­if you'd like them. They're kind so don't quote me on that. strumentals here, including of weird. You've probably heard I guess that they took care of either the dumbest of the most 'Take The Skinheads Bowling' or their title for this album on their ingenious idea for a cover song, 'Where The Hell Is Bill?'" last one, camper Van Beethoven Pink Floyd's unstructured psyc­
I probably looked blank so he II &: Ill. hedelic jam "Interstellar Drive." continued, "'(We're A) Bad Trip' Fitting in with that is the preoc­There are also a few really funny or 'ZZ Top Goes To Egypt?'" cupation that they seem to have songs here, like "Jo Stalin's 
Still, nothing. picked up somewhere for '60's Cadillac" and "We Saw Jerry's 
To the uninitiated, like I was conventions. "Good Guys and Daughter." "Peace and Love" is until a few months ago, camper Bad Guys," the album's opener, basically an acid-trip of a short Van Beethoven are a unique sounds dead-on like a late­story spoken over what sounds band. Their interesting ideas period Kinks song. "The History like it might be a good song in about rock 'n' roll and their ec­ofUtah," which opens the second its own right. centric sense of humor make side, steals a riff directly from All in all, the new CVB album them one of the big bands to the Doors' "Roadhouse Blues," is worth the effort it might take watch in these twilight years of which of course was stolen by to find it, if you're into musical 


Lone Justice's 'Shelter' too limited 

DENNIS CORRIGAN features writer 

When the stylus hit Lone Jus­tice's new album Shelter, it ex­pected to hear the sound of country infused rock. Instead, it got a solid backbeat and grungy guitar chords, the two sounds that mark Lone Justice's new release. Anyone expecting to hear songs like "After the Flood" from last year's self-titled debut 

Records 


Shelter 
Lone Justice 

album will be in for a surprise as well. 
This album is much harder and much slicker. Perhaps it's the group's new cast. Only lead singer, songwriter and guitarist Maria McKee and guitarist Ryan 
-
year. But beyond McKee, no one _..lse matters. McKee is clearly the focus for the band and boasts one of the strongest and most unusual voices in rock music today. She can belt out such rockers as "I Found Love" and "Belfry" with all the power of a modern-day Janis Joplin. But on the slower, countryish "Wheels" and "Dixie Storms," McKee sounds like the rock 'n' roll in­carnation of Dolly Parton. 
As a songwriter, though, McKee is less than powerful. Shelter focuses in on just that theme, looking for refuge from the storms of life. McKee wants to be the solution as in the al­bums's first single and title song and is looking for It on "Beacon" and "Belfry." She writes about faith in dreams on "Dreams Come True (Stand Up and Take It)," and love as inspiration on the aptly titled "Inspiration": 
The problem 'is, all these themes have been hit before and much more originally. Lighthouses have been symbols of hope since man began to write lyrics. McKee was at her best orr 
last year's release when singing about her rural background. The only song that comes close to that is "Dixie Storms," which closes the album. 
Musically, Shelter has a stronger and harder feel than Lone Justice's first release largely because of new drummer Rudy Richman and bass player Gregg Sutton. But Shelter suffers from Jimmy Iovine's overly slick production. The single "Shelter," with its synthesizer Intraand lush backing vocals is perhaps the worst offender. The album Isjust too clean. From its packaging, which looks like a slicker R.E.M. cover, to its music, Lone Jus-. tice's Shelter is just too glossy for McKee's voice to overcome, which is a shame. 


-~---l 
Observer--December 12, 1986 Scene-Page 7 
... 

Broadway play comes alive on the big The Notre Dame Glee Club will pres­
screen In this musical drama of ent a Christmas Concert tonight at 8 
making It or breaking It in show biz. and I0 p.m. In Washington Hall. For 
Michael Douglas stars as the rigorous more Information contact Eric Kueh­
director with Audrey Landers as one ner at 2.39-620 I . The Student Activities Board of the dancers who makes it through presents "A Chorus Line" tonight and the trials on her way to appearing in 
Stevie Ray Vaughn and Double Trou­Saturday night In the Engineering the Chorus Line. Showtlmes are 7, ble with the Outlaws will be In concert Auditorium. This Pulitzer Prize winning 9:15 and 11 p.m. Admission Is $1.50. tonight at the Holiday Star Theatre In Merrillville, IN. The show starts at 8 
p.m. and tickets are$ 14.95. For tickets call Ticketron at 2 19'769-6600. 
The Midwest Pops Orchestra will present a performance of Fiedler's favorites In a tribute to Arthur Fiedler at 7:.30 p.m. Sunday at South Bend Century Center. For ticket Information call the Century Center box office at 284-9111. 


The Center for Social Concerns will be the site of the annual Christmas Nazz. This year's show, which features music and storytelling, will begin at 7 
p.m. 


Theater 


A musical adaptation of Charles Dickens' "A Christmas carol" will be presented by the Acting Ensemble Stage Company tonight, Saturday, and Sunday night at the Colfax Cultural Center In South Bend. For more Infor­mation call 2.34-PLAY. 
Southold Dance Theater presents Tchaikovsky's "The Nutcracker''. Per­formances will be held Saturday night at 8 p.m. and Sunday afternoon at 2 
p.m. In the Morris Civic Center Auditorium. Tickets may be obtained by calling the Century Center Box Of­fice at 284-91 1 I . 

1'1ass schedule this weekend at Sa­cred Heart Church: Saturday night at 5 p.m. Sunday at 9 and 10:.30 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. 
FAMOUS LAST WORDS FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS 
"A tv• !filii OK lu dri1•et" "Witall< u.ft'll' lwt•t>d"


Happy 21stBirthday 
"Did!!"" hill'<' lm 111111'/t lu dt'illkt" "l'111fH't.1i·cl/y.fille."


December 16th 
..A,v• !flill iutwysltaJH'Iotlril't'( .. "/'tv• IWI~·rfio/1 he/In:"

Lunches starting at_ ______ 

Dan DeCarlo 
"//hi11k !JII/1°1~' hm/ ll}i'll'ftHl IU<IUJ( "Yt111 kiddiu,l I'll// dt1Vf•

Celebrate Christmas and the New Year at the 
ll'ifh 111!11'!/<'·' c/tJHI'd,"


Love you still,
Great Wall 
•V,m'•~· !tad ''H''""''" lu dri11k, 
lei wedrivc."

Dinnen starting at_ _______s4.25 
"Nulxlf!y drive., "'!I car bul me."

Erica Kane 
.... open 7 day• a week ......l'llun..: 11:30•.•··10~~-& 
Fri.-Sit.: 11:30 L ... -11 ,.•. S.. &llei1Uy1 11:30 L•.-10 ,.._Next to Randoll.s Inn 272-7376
'• 
South Bend,130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 

SENIORS 
Where will I be next year? What will I be doing? 
Where do I really want to invest myself, my time and my talent? 
The Snite's MUSEUM SHOP 


CHRISTMAS SALE 
When you are considering options, don'tforget: 
December 15-20, 1986 10 a.m. -4 p.m. each day 20% to 50% OFF 
*The museum's handsome engagement calendar, Images of Nature *A wide assortment of Christmas cards 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES
*Posters, artist signed collector items 
A ONE YEAR LAY VOLUNTEER SERVICE •
*T-Shirts 

PROGRAM WITH COMMUNITIES IN ARIZONA, 
*And much, much more 
CALIFORNIA, OREGON, AND COLORADO. 
Gift wrapping and shipping are available 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
DON'T MISS IT!!! JanePfu 
Moreau Seminary or 
Plaone: 239-5521 Mary Ann Roemer Centerfor Social Concerns plaone: 239-7949 

--~--~---~ 
The Observer--December 12, 1986 Scene-Page 8 


The tale of a prodigal Father 
The fiction about extrater­restrials Is based on the assump­tion that mankind on the planet earth Is not alone In the universe. Beyond this galaxy, at a distance measured by light-years, Is the star from which E.T. came. In the millenia ahead, perhaps there will be ten million stars from 

them exonerate heaven. William Sloane coffin, formerly theFather Robert Griffin 
• chaplain at Yale, lost his son In a driving accident. A colleagueletters to a lonely God piously assured him that the death was God's will. Coffin 
which an endless number of 
E.T.s will come on Inter-galactic holidays to find Elliott. Our scien­tists keep probing outer space, hoping to make contacts with planets occupied by aliens like 
E.T. The Immensity of creation makes It seem certain that human beings are not the only life forms In the limitless sea of space. 
Religion certainly doesn't teach that the human race was assigned to this globe so that, looking around, we would stay humble at our smallness, waiting to be upstaged bya race ofgiants we haven't yet met. Religions, as well as science, would be suprlsed to learn God went to so much trouble for the sake of Adam's children as His one and only experiment. 
God's love Is full of surprises. The Incarnation Is far more hum­bling than any statistics Carl Sagan could give us. Perhaps faith would be easier If God had scaled things down, so that that we wouldn't have to be amazed at His exhibition of power. Maybe we would be happier In a uni­verse of more modest dimen­sions. 
At Tuesday night's Penance Service, Father Andre read the parable of the Prodigal Son. The younger lad In the story needs his father's forglvenness; the fa­ther, of course Is the God-figure extending Himself In mercy to the sinner guilty of wasting grace. On Wednesday, I reflected, Father Hesburgh would be offering a memorial mass for a Notre Dame student who died at age 20, the latest on that long list of Domers dying young. I wondered: does God ever feel He needs forgiveness from us? A younger son threw away a fortune on riotous living; finally feeling ashamed of him­self, he went home to his father on his knees. God seems care­less about preserving human life; what Is money compared to a life that's allowed to be lost? 
Friends die In accidents, wars, floods and other catastrophes, and they die from disease. Fat­hers of young families die at the hands of drug-crazed thugs met In the street. Mothers die from cancers that eat their bodies as their children watch In horror. The questions we ask when faced with suffering that results In the deaths of young. much-needed people Is: "Why does God let It happen? Why Is He so careless with lives that the angels are sup­posed to watch over?'' A child as perfect as a lovely rose suddenly gets sick with leukemia, and the 
disease ruins the loveliness, despite the prayers offered to a deity who seems Indifferent to the destruction ofa masterpiece. What Is God trying to prove, 

and to whom Is He trying to prove a sinful nation. Even while we're It? He could make the universe taking our share of the blame, a zillion miles high as a show­we're remembering Innocent vic­case for His cleverness; If He's In tims who deserved to be spared. love with long distances, I'm will­Honest faith doesn't begin until Ing. as His creature, to praise you come to terms with cosmic Him for the generous landscap­cruelty which Providence Is re­Ing. But He has given me my sponsible for. children as a treasure; why, then In time of calamity, the sur­
vivors exchange clues which help 
replied: "Like hell It wasl When does He act like an Indian-giver, Jim went off the road on that wet or a bully who wants me to see night, God was the first one to how cruel He can be? weep." Of course! God must of­
Religion should have a parable ten be the earliest mourner: what of the wasteful Father needing to a powerful lnslghtl ask for forglvenness. Christians The Creator with sorrow In His and Jews try to figure out His heart should not be sentimen­will, and be reconciled to It as talized Into Danny Boy's father justice; they even find ways of saying goodbye to his son In the blaming themselves, persuading army. But does the Heavenly Fa­themselves that all the deaths of ther's perfection mean that He Is the Holocaust were necessary, or so all-knowing and all-loving that that all the deaths In VIetnam cries of pain from the earth don't were deserved as punishment by add anything to His experience 
of good and evil? Is It sentimen­tal to hope that He registers our tragedies like a seismograph cal­Ibrated to measure he Intensity of earthquakes? How unfulfllllng religion Is when scholars forget to tell us how the divine pity Is possible In a Trinity of Persons knowing and loving themselves In perfect contentment. Textbook descriptions of God leave a lot to be desired when they make Him sound too et­hereal to be streetwlse, as though the Biblical Images were only figures of speech. 
The 20th century has seen too much horror to leave theology to the metaphysicians. The high water mark of revelation Is the Cross on which the Saviour died. The Man of Sorrows reveals the Father th the Holy Ghost Involved In His mission In a way that Is Indivisible from the Son being Himself as the servant and vic­tim. Calvary begins the theology which makes sense out of death beds, to which the Spirit comes as the Comforter, over which the Father grieves, seeing truth where I see mystery. 
It's hard for us to accept large truths that come In small pack­ages, or to be served with mys­teries when we ask for miracles. The Lord, taking the cross on His shoulders, was harder on Him­self than anyone. He wants us to believe that nothing Is Impossible with God. He Initiates us with the holy Christmas story piecing together the tradition. The only proof we have of Its truth Is that the human Imagina­tion doesn't soar so high; It's as Imaginative In Its way, as the uni­verse Is In the arrangement of space. It seems worthy of the divine author, and we have noth­Ingas wonderful to take Its place. The world would be poorer with­out it. Everytlme a carol Is sung. I believe the magic assuring me that God so loved the world that he gave His only begotten Son In the way the Gospel says He gave Him. I wish you the grace of believing as Christmas. Merry Christmas from Darby O'Glll and me. We never said we didn't love you. 


MARGARET 


LINHART 
-The greatest secretary in the knourn Free World is leaving today. Thank you Margaret for your years of dedicated and underpaid service. The members ofStudent Government, S.A.B. and anyone else-who ever asked you a favor will surely 01iss you, especially us, Mike and Don. Good-bye and good luck in whatever you do. 
• 

The Observer Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 11 
Classifieds 
continued/rom page 10 
To all ot our staff who are leaving for the semester We will mlaa you as much as you'll mlasthe snow -The Oblerver
.............................................................. 
BAHAMASII BAHAMAS II BAHAMASII 
5 dayl/4 nlghta M alrtare from Ft. Laud. $124. Call Jim at 1913 for Info. 
............................................................... 
Coma sae the REAL GRINCH of Noire Dame. Scrooge G80<Q8 will be at hla beat during flnala. Stop by 202 Sorln to wish him a Merry Christmas. (Maybe he'll even share a Longneck Bud wijh you!) 
M~;;y·c;i;;i~i;;.;;;;~d;~~·a:·;;~;;;·y~~;-iiiil 
Brother In Sorln. 
:r;;·ih~--~iiii;i..t;;,;;;;·c;;;;;;;;;;;~··w;;~~ 
I !ell down the path, I wouldn't kid ya, Jim Pelicans DO carry Cath. Thenx again for the lift, The Party Animal who Isn't £1 or £2 P.S. Chrlaala aava this Ia yae. 
;:;;;;;;;;v··a·.··Fic;~~--;~~--~;;d:··vi;;ii.i&·-~;& 
blue, I'll mlu my (great) roomies, But I'll mlu you tool Dawny B. 
DEAR KRISTIN CONDOONON GOOD LUCK AND GOOD BYE YOU DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH WE'RE GOIN TO MISS YOU LOVE ALWAYS, COLL AND KAATTH 
i.i'Aj;l:!--:v~---;;;;;·j~~i--~--;~;;i·II'P'.'S. 
Marry Chrlstmll CYNDY KORDELL 
Niieo'R'iiie--:ro·o-c·i:e:t:iiiNa··;·Vi:r·aA 
LATER. CALL MEGAN 284·5343 
--··:rou:ii;;~-8i;;i;d~~--~~·;;;~-24ii;''''' 
Good luck In Indianapolis on the 22nd Love Dabble 

You're a great roomie Lenora Madden. Suzie Moaer & Kathleen Moran are nice too. 
............................................................... 
ANNA Atlut ....,.Ia your vary ft1'8t peraon•ll Thllnk• for coming to the Fl•....r SYR; ( Ju•t don'tlook Ill the plctu,..•l). Hav• 
• M41rry Chrtatm..ll Your Data 
y~·;;·~--ij;~;;··;;;.;;;.;,~--i:~;;;;;~--;,:;;;dd~~. 
Suzie Moear & Kathleen Moran are nlca too. 
To Gaye, 

Have a great Christmas and thanks alotl 
From the parson who forgets her ID • 
Heather 

NEED RIDE TODC LEAVING 12118 EVE OR LATER. CALL MIKE 3575 
............................................................... 
IF YOU NEED A RIDE FROM BOSTON TO S BEND AFTER BREAK, CALL KRIS 284·5144 
............................................................... 
DOOLEY, WILL, JIM, MIKE,MATT,OB,TV,AND OF COURSE, JACKIE 0: REMEMBER HOW BIG OUR ROOM IS IN LEMANS? HEY, YOU COULD ALWAYS MOVE IN WITH USII LOVE, ROZEL AND ANG 
Uda and the Boy llfeguard-IWhy don't you cry? HEY! Merry Christmas to the COOLEST fags I know. Good Luck with exams! Ladaedadee...The Cab Driver 
RIDE NEEDED to Cincinnati on Fri. Dec. 
19. Will share expenses. Call Anne at SMC 4296. 
YO TYRONE, Thanks for being my beat friend at ND and for giving me faith again In Domersl I hopa your Christmas Is merry and thai lhe new year brings you many great memories and surprises (Feb.19 perhaps?) Love,CHARISE 
To Gaye, 
Have a great Christmas and thanks atoll From the person who forgets her ID • Heather 
MIKE, PAT, MIKE, JAY, SMED-DOO, LIZ·DOO •nd THE HOUSE, MURPH, CHRIS, BECKY, PAT, TRUMPET SEC· TION BAND-FAGS, OBSERVERITES, CC.STAFF
......................................... 
May a// of you and your families have a Merry Christmas. 
-Shawn 

ATTENTION OBSERVER EMPLOYEES: FINAL PAYCHECKS CAN BE PICKED UP IN THE OBSER· VER OFFICE ON THURSDAY, DEC. 18, BETWEEN 10 A.M. I 2 P.M. 
Its going to be tough to refrain from anyth­Ing else, ladles, but here It goes ... 
T-BEAR KOCH 
Here's wishing you a very Joyous and Merry Christmaa. May your holidays be lilted with happln888. 
~~~~..~~~~.~..~~s~.~~..9~~.~~!~~.~) 
To you, we wish a Merry Christmas, and advise you to be your own parson and not always do the same thing your slater does (did It have to be his brother?). 
LIZ-DOG MARTUCCI 
And a very spacial Merry Christmas to you. May all your days be full of gladnesa ... and SNOW. 
I tried. 

ND women's hoops goes west for holidays 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team is hoping that a trip to the west coast over the holidays will give the Califor­nia sun a chance to shine on its efforts. 
Thus far, the Irish have struggled to an 0-4 record in a less-than-impressive start to the 1986-87 season (the worst start in the school's history, in fact), and have lost their only senior in Lavetta Willis be­cause of her decision to quit the team while citing personal reasons. But eight games over Christmas break will give Head Coach Mary DiStanis­lao's team a chance to improve on those numbers. 
Notre Dame is at home for a pair of games, against Loyola and St. Ambrose, before the players head for their own homes to celebrate Christmas. Before the new year, however, the Irish will head to the west coast for the Seattle Times Classic and a pair of games in California. 


Here is a quick look at some of the obstacles awaiting Notre Dame (Irish home games are in caps) over Christmas break: 
LOYOLA -The former North Star Conference rivals lost their best player in Kathy Leyden, but return senior guard Sharon Carr (12.6 points per game last year). The Lady Ramblers finished with an overall record of 20-7 last season and always play the Irish well. 
ST, AMBROSE -The Queen Bees from the state of Iowa won 20 games last year while dropping 12 and return five letter-winners from a nine-man squad last year. Junior Patty Campbell (15.1 ppg.) is a strong all-around player. 
The Seattle Times Classic ­The Irish tip off action in this tournament against last year's Big Eight champion, Okla­homa, which won the confer­ence with a 24-7 overall record. The good news for the Irish is that the Sooners lost 11 players from that team and will rely on LaTrenda Phillips (13.1 ppg.) for much of their scoring. 
11No more strong teams round out the tournament field. Montana returns eight letter­winners from a team which finished 22-15, while Pac 10 champion Washington finished last season at 24-6. 
At Loyola-Marymount -The Lions won only three games last year and return just two players from that team. The Irish should do well in this one. 
At UCLA -The Bruins struggled to a 12-16 mark and a fourth-place conference finish last season, but lost only one letter-winner heading into this campaign. Junior Jamie Brown (11.6 ppg.) is the top re­turning scorer and should anchor a quick squad. 
MARYLAND-The Irish beat the Terrapins by a 49-40 score last season, but Maryland has six solid players returning, in­cluding sophomore Deana Tate, who averaged better than 
16.5 points an outing as a fresh­man. 
At Northern Illinois -The Irish should not encounter too many problems against the Huskies, who won only eight contests last season. The top returner for Northern Illinios is senior Shelly Roberts, who averaged nearly 14 points in her junior campaign. 
Close 
continuedfrompage 16 
In the overtime period, Soucie opened the scoring with his fifth three-pointer, but Con­nor answered with a home run of his own to even the score at 
68. The teams traded inside hoops and McCaskill hit a 12­footer before Rivers and Stevenson hit two free throws apiece to put the Irish on top by two. Connor then hit a jumper from the key to put the Irish on top for good. 
Despite the important three­point goals by Jackson and Con­nor, Phelps used his post-game press conference to chastise the rule. 
"Sean Connor is a great out­side shooter and he hit the three-pointer to get us the game -but so is Soucie," he said. "They just traded three­pointers -and that's fine -but let's make it worth three points. Let's move it back to23 feet." 
~­
1 The Observer Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 12 
I 
~ 
I I Irish wrestlers head for Calif. for break tourney, meets 

By STEVE MEGARGEE 

! r 
Sports Writer 

Some people may be dreaming of a white Christmas, but Notre Dame wres­
I 
t tling coach Fran McCann would be satisfied just to see a couple of hisI wrestlers healthy again before he takes 
I 
I 
his squad to California on Jan. 4. The Irish will compete in the Cal­State Fullerton Tournament on Jan. 4, 
then will face Cal-State Fullerton and 
I 
I Cal Poly in dual meets on Jan. 6-7. Notre Dame's chances of success in the three meets would greatly improve with the 
recovery of 126-pound sophomore Dave 
I 
Carlin and 190-pound freshman Dan Mitchell.!· Both wrestlers were injured in the 
Gifts 
continuedfrompage 16 
Notre Dame volleyball coach Art Lambert -A little national recognition for an outstanding season. 
Notre Dame Athletic Direc­tor Gene Corrigan -1) More home football games. East Carolina's looking for some more powerhouses for its schedule. 2) This isn't a Christmas wish per se, but it's past time for the following revelation: This writer is of no relation to Notre Dame's A.D. 
Irish quarterback Steve Beuerlein -Some of the respect that eluded him throughout his record-setting career. 
Irish flanker Tim Brown ­Well, nothing this year because he'll get everything next year. 
Indiana basketball coach Bob Knight -An autographed copy of A Season On The Brink by John Feinstein. 
Miami quarterback Vinny Testa verde-A diploma. It's the only way he'll get one. He could polish the Heisman with it, at least. 
The NCAA -1) paint remover. Get that three-point line off the court. 2) guts. After years of senseless and harm­less sanctions, perhaps the NCAA will get some finally and suspend SMU for its infrac­tions. 
The NFL-a copy of Orwell's 1984. After all, Big Brother's been watching the officials all season. Winston had more courage than the zebras have had this season. 
The NBA -the rest of the season off. Can't the Rockets and Lakers play now to see which of them plays the eel­tics? Better still, just hang an­other banner in the rafters of Boston Garden. 
Jack Nicklaus and Willie

f Shoemaker -continued health and happiness. Their wins in the Masters and Kentucky Derby, respectively, were two of the warmest stories of 1986. 
All who knew Len Bias and Don Rogers -thoughts of what might have been. At least their cocaine-related deaths made people realize that something has to be done about the prob­lem of drugs in sports. Unques­tionably the most tragic stories of the year. 
Sports fans everywhere -a Merry Christmas. 

season-opening Michigan State Invita­tional on Nov. 9, Carlin with a bad elbow and Mitchell with a sore shoulder. Nei­ther one has wrestled since. 
Carlin says he will be able to compete in the California meets, while Mitchell's status remains questionable. 
"I'll be back in the lineup. It's almost 100 percent healed now," said Carlin. "I'll have to work hard over break and get in shape. Over the holidays, I'll practice with my high school. Then we come back to Notre Dame on Dec. 27, and I'll practice here." 
The Irish can only hope that Carlin is starting to solve the injury riddle that has plagued the team all year. Junior 158-pounder Dan Carrigan injured his knee at last weekend's Las Vegas Invi­tational and is out for at least the rest of the year. 
"It hasn't been a good year with in­juries. You just don't expect injuries," said McCann. "We can't count on get­ting big decisions from our strong people. The competition's going to get tougher, and we'd better be ready." 
Whether Notre Dame is healthy or not, the Irish will have their hands full at California. The Cal-State Fullerton Tournament will include over 20 schools, including nationally-ranked teams Oklahoma State, Arizona State, and Fresno State. 
Only two days afterward, the Irish will have dual meets against the Cal­State Fullerton Titans and the Cal Poly Mustangs on consecutive days. 



We'll do your laundry for you (same day service) 
Open 7am-1 Opm, 7 days a week Professional dry cleaning By S&.S Dry Cleaners-1 day service 50 washers 8r. dryers (all si~es) Affendent on d 277-9856 


"Poly's traditionally one of the best teams in the West Coast," said McCann. "I saw Fullerton at the Las Vegas Invitational, and they've got some really tough guys." 
The Irish will have their next home match on Jan. 20 against Athletes in Action. 
SObering
Advice .~ cansa~e.
.. 
alife /",. 
e~ frot11 the ~11 • t-\ H·t1. Wht.s­
I'm Mary Beth. 
I have joined the styling team at The Knights 
men's haircutting and hair care. 

Come laelp me make nay career a succes 272-0312/272-8471 54533 Terrace Lane 
(across &omMartin's) 
Enjoy fresh flowers today! 

Sweetheart Rose Corsage $7.50 Rose Boutonnier $3.95 
409 DIXIE WAY NORTH SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 




• j 


The Observer 

ND faces seven holiday games 
Break poses challenge for Irish 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
After time off for finals, the Notre Dame men's basketball team will take to the court for two home games before Christmas. Following that, the Irish begin a five-game road trip, their longest of the year. Here's a brief sketch of the teams the Irish will face during the holiday season. Home games are in CAPS. 
VALPARAISO -This will be Notre Dame's first game fol­lowing the layover for final ex­ams. The toughest test for the Irish should be getting thier timing together. Last year in the same situation, Notre Dame blew out the Crusaders, 98-54. Valpo returns 10 players from its 9-19 team of a year ago, led by 6-4 forward Harry Bell. Bell averaged 13.5 points and 
6.8 rebounds a game last year. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN -Mter time off for the team to go home for Christmas, Notre Dame returns to Domeland to face the Chippewas. Central Michigan was 11-17last season but made it to the Mid­American Conference playoffs. All five starters from that team return this season. Dan Majerle, a 6-6 forward, and Er­vin Leary, a 6-3 guard, are the head men for the Chippeawas. Majerle finished 16th in the na­tion in scoring average with a 
21.4 mark and was an all-MAC first teamer. Leary averaged 
18.6 points per game last season and was a second-team all-MAC pick. 
at Maryland -The Irish will try to ring in the new year with this game against the east­coast rival Terps. This will be Maryland's third game of the season, following Univeristy Chancellor John Slaughter's decision to open practice later because of lagging academics on the basketball team. Head Coach Bob Wade will have his hands full in his first season as he tries to rebuild the program on and off the court. The Terps return only one starter, Der­rick Lewis, to last season's 19­14 squad. Lewis was second in the ACC in blocked shots last season with 71 but averaged only 7.9 points per game. It could be a long season in Col­lege Park. 
at Pennsylvania -This will be Notre Dame's annual visit to the Palestra in Philadelphia, perhaps the last of the great old basketball courts. The Quakers return all five starters to a team that had its first win­ning season since 1983 with a 15-11 mark. Perry Bromwell, a two-time all-Ivy guard, and backcourt mate John Wilson 
C. Mich. tops No.8 W. Ky. 
Associated Press 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. ­Central Michigan, led by Dan Majerle with 23 points, went on an 8-0 run and built a 12-point lead at the start of the second half Thursday night en route to a 73-65 upset of No. 8 Western Kentucky. 
It was Western Kentucky's second loss in a row. The Hil­ltoppers, 6-3, fell60-58 to Louis­ville on Wednesday night. Central Michigan is now 3-1. 
Western Kentucky shot only 37 percent from the field. 

lead the Quakers. Wilson handed out 126 assists last season, the third-highest total in Penn history, and Bromwell averaged 13.2 points per con­test. Center Bruce Lefkowitz led the Quakers in scoring last year with a 14.2 average. This could be a tough one for the Irish. 
at Yale -This is Notre Dame's third and last game against Ivy League teams. The Elis are led by 6-10 center Chris Dudley. Dudley, a two-time all­Ivy selection, led the Ivy in rebounding with a 10.9 average and blocked shots with 26. He was third in the league in scoring, averaging 17.9 points a night. The Elis, 13-13 last year, return their other four starters as well. 
at DePaul -Notre Dame's first game against one of the Great Independents will also be its greatest break challenge. The Blue Demons, 18-13 last year including the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament, were hit hard by graduation, but return forward Dallas Com­egys and guard Rod Strickland. 
'Bu 
The people who bring you Budweiser wish and yours the very best this holiday season. So look for the Limited Edition 1986 Holiday Stein at participating Budweiser ....~.a....... ~.. 
BIJOWEISER®•KING OF BEERS®•ANHEUSER·BUSCH.INC.•ST. LOUIS 
Comegys, when he's on, can do it all-score (13.8 ppg), rebound 
(5.6) and block shots (a DePaul career record 190). Strickland showed flashes of brilliance as freshman in leading the team in scoring with a 14.9 average. In addition, he set DePaul freshman records in assists 
(160) and steals (60). On their home floor, the Blue Demons are more than imposing. 
at Creighton-Omaha, Neb., is the last stop on the longest road trip of the year. The Blue jays were 12-16 last year under first­year coach Tony Barone, but Barone returns only four players this seasons. For­tunately, the team's leading scorer and rebounder, Kenny Evans, is one of them. Evans averaged 15.9 points and 8.5 rebounds last seasons in ear­ning a spot on the All-Missourri Valley Conference second team. The Bluejays also have 6-11 freshman Mike Pomery eating space in the middle. Two years ago, the Bluejays shocked the Irish in Omaha, 60­58. 
The Observer /Greg Kohs 

Scott Hicks will lead the Irish on a five-game roadtrip during the holidays. Dennis Corrigan has a preview of Irish break action at left. 

presents: 



A Chorus Line 
7,9:15,11:.30 $1.50 

Tonight and Saturday EO Auditorium Absolutely no food or drink allowed. 
WEll-, 17ME; 17J 6£fMCI< 
17J TH€ (){.. fflKISH. tr 
WIIS NICE V!StrTNG Wf11.1 
Beer Nuts 
-You U£ ABOUT TO £N1U. , A WOR.LfJ WH£1(£ Tl/ff AN{) ~PAC£ 00 NOT tX15f. •• 
~ I I I I \ \ \ .... 
A WORLD WH£1?£ SICJIT AND 501JND, Wi-lER£ £N£R6Y 
ANO NATf&'R AR£ ON£ ... 


Friday, December 12, 1986 -page 15 
''CW/Rf/51{. MESSIIIH fR'tJM
II SMAU 8/TfF 


W!SPOM ff!f~ I te/IVF:. PMK BOY.,. 

A WOI?LO B£YON{) HAI-ITY WI1£R£ PHYSICAL LAJ..J) NO LoN6U? APf'LY. YO/I AR.£ 
Campus 
FRIDAY 
10:00 a.m. -5:00p.m.: St. Nick's Christmas Bazaar, last day, local merchants, student artists, organizations & clubs are selling Xmas gifts, goodies, cards, etc., LeMans Lobby, SMC 
11:15 a.m. -12:30 p.m.: Economics De­partment Public Policy Workshop, Sister Mary Ann Pevas, Thesis Proposal, 131 Decio Hall 
4:30 -6:30 p.m.: "Decorate-a-tree", Christmas party with little kids from NSHP, big bothers1il sisters, sponsored by SAB, classes of '88, '89, Center for Social Concerns 7:00,9:15 & 11:30 p.m.: Movie, "A Chorus Line", $1.50, Engineering Auditorium 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey, ND vs. Alabama­Huntsville, ACC Ice Arena 
8:00 
& 10:00 p.m.: Notre Dame Glee Club Christmas Concert, free with ticket voucher, Washington Hall 

SATURDAY 

8:00 
a.m. -3:00 p.m.: Graduate Record Examination, Engineering Auditorium 


7:00 p.m.: The lOth Annual Christmas Nazz, Various campus musicians and alumni will perform, free, Center for So­cial Concerns 7:30p.m.: Ice Hockey, ND vs. Alabama­Huntsville, ACC Ice Arena 
SUNDAY 2:00p.m.: Mass, members of Emmaus, a community ·with the mentally handi­capped, will meet at Moreau Seminary, a coffee hour will follow the Mass 
Free Pregnancy Tests 234-0363 
SAB 
8:00p.m.: Notre Dame Camerata Singers First Annual Christmas Concert, free ad­mission, Moreau Seminary Chapel 8:00p.m.: SMC Annual Christmas Service of Lessos and Carols Featuring the Choirs of SMC, Nancy Menk, SMC, director, Church Loretto Christmas Masses, Sacred Heart Wed., Dec. 24, parish mass-5 p.m., main church; midnight mass -11:30 p.m., main church Thur., Dec. 25, parish mass -10 a.m., main church; University mass -12:15 p.m., main church; 6:30 & 7:30a.m., crypt New Year's Day Masses, Sacred Heart Wed. Dec. 31, parish mass -5 p.m., main church Thur., Jan. 1, University mass -12:15 p.m., main church; 6:30, 7:15 & 10 a.m., crypt 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Swiss Steak Spanakopita Batter Fried Perch Pepperochini Cheese Grinder 
Saint Mary's 
Pork Chop Italian Sausage French Bread Pizza Deli Bar 

me sHttf .. f1{)€5N7 KEIIUY KHY!Ife W/1H 
Mark Williams 
' , At 

'f!4E FiNAlS ­
..

.. * 
~ 7,otl8 ,
' 
•* ) 

When snakes dream they're crawling 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 

1 Mona­ 
5 Bitter  
10 Impressed  
14 Munich's river  
15 Pancakes  
of a kind  
16 Theda of  
silents  
17 Muskets'  
features  
19 "-o'clock  
scholar"  
20 Biscay or  
Biscayne  
21 Particle  
22 Cosmetic stick  
24 Chicken feed  
26 Quantity  
27 Noted educator  
Edward  
28 "I-man ... "  
29 Joker  
32 Street's boss  
35 Sheriff's  
deput9  
37 Hokkaido  
aborigine 38 Pentateuch  1986 Tnbune Med1a Serv1ces. Inc All R1ghts Reserved  12/12/86  

39 Galway Bay islands 40 Tiny Tim's family 
42 Bit of gossip 
43 Time zone letters 44 Louts 45 Dernier­46 0'0/erhead items 48 Valise 52 Racial 54 Obi 55 Tell's canton 56 Singing pair 57 Hired gun 60 Saragossa's 
river 61 Accrue: var. 62 Seine feeder 63 Coarse file 64 Travels 65 Idyllic spot 
DOWN 1 Branches 2 Hayes or Newton 
3 lecher 4 Stage light 5 Chock-­6 Cleric dress 7 Costa­8 Sign 9 Wire 
10 Char-­11 Slogan 12 "-saw Elba" 13-Boone 18 Discover 23 Greenland 
settlement 25 Concerning 26 Letters from 
Athens 28 Shopping sites 30 Jai­31 Fellow 32 Symbol of 
authority 33 Exposes 34 "Invasion of 
the Body-" 35 Nun's caps 36 Hysteria 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
38 Eng. ruler 41 "-fan tutte" 42 "The Lady ­
Tiger" 45 Turns in chips 47 Successful 48-bleu! 49 Weather word 
12/12/86 50 Expunge 51 Napery 52 Hessian river 53 Brass player 54 Dress shirt accessory 58 Cuckoo 59 Part of Italy 

"THE MOST EXCITING MOVIE OF THE YEAR: 
-Joanna Longfield. WABC 


~-~----------------------------~--~---~~---­
-~-------~--~­

f 
I I 


Friday, December 12, 1986-page 16


S~orts 
Irish survive Hurons in OT, 81-76; Free throws key in ND comeback 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 

An old friend returned to the Notre Dame basketball team during the stretch drive of its contest with Eastern Michigan last night. The free throw, which had been so elusive in previous games when the Irish needed it most, came back and Notre Dame used it to over­come a fiesty Eastern Mic­higan squad in overtime, 81-76. 
David Rivers and Mark Stevenson combined to convert six of six from the gift line in the overtime to help the Irish pull away from the Hurons in the extra period. 
But what was Notre Dame's saving grace also served as Eastern Michigan's demise as the Hurons missed three suc­cessive front ends of one-and­one situations in the final four minutes of regulation to allow the Irish to crawl back from a seven-point deficit with 4: 41 to go. 
Those statistics only added frustration for EMU head coach Ben Braun, who saw his team's upset bid fall just short. 

"In the first half we had no turnovers and hit 15-of-17 free throws-and that's the kind of game we play most of the time," he said. "However, it was the same free throws that hurt us down the stretch. I'm still very proud of our players.'' 
It appeared as though Braun would be able to enjoy the eve­ning a lot more when his Hurons turned a 31-33 halftime deficit and a 46-53 deficit into a 65-58lead with only 4:41left in the game. 
After some fine work by Mike McCaskill, who had been held to only four points in the first half, and a Chuck King rebound basket, Brad Soucie hit his fourth three-point basket of the evening, and Lewis Scott hit a rebound goal to give the Hurons the seven-point advantage. 
But Digger Phelps' "press team" helped turn the tide. Jamere Jackson, Michael Smith, Rivers, Stevenson and Scott Hicks put pressure the Hurons and forced some hurried shots that, along with missed free throws, allowed 
'Tis the season for wish lists 
"He's checking his list. He's checking it twice." -"Santa Claus is Coming to Town" 
In the spirit of the season, it's time to present a Christmas Wish List for the ever-interesting world of sports. 
Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz -14 points and a ticket to Tempe, Ariz. 

Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps -the emer­gence of one of his centers. The Irish will need a big man if they're to survive until tournament time. 
Notre Dame soccer coach Dennis Grace -A new pair of golf balls. After his finest season to date, the intense Grace squeezed his day-glo golf balls into day-glo BB's. 
Notre Dame women's basketball coach Mary DiStanis­lao -A set of real gold uniforms. Those the Irish got for winning the North Star Conference title last year are greenish-gold, sort of like Georgia Tech's. At least they've shrunk. 
see GIFTS, page 12 
the Irish to come back. 
Jackson's three-point basket and Sean Connor's jumper pulled the Irish to within two at 65-63. Eastern's Lewis Scott then missed the front end of a one-and-one with 1:36 to go. Stevenson_ missed a fading jumper, but the Irish regained possession with 30 seconds remaining. After passirig"'"the ball around the key, Rivers penetrated and found Connor open on the right wing. Conner, slowed by a sprained ankle, sank the 17-footer with eight seconds on the clock to send the game into overtime. 
Eastern appeared confused, and with the bench calling for a time-out, let the clock run out before getting a shot off. 
Connor said he felt confident taking the clutch shot in the waning moments. 
"My shot was feeling good," he said. "I had hit a few in a row and I was in my rhythm, so I just tried to block out the circumstances at the time and let it go." 
see CLOSE, page 11 

ND faces Ala.-Huntsville tonight 
Irish look to break .500 mark 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team will be looking to improve upon this season's 5-5 record at the expense of Alabama­Huntsville, which comes to the ACC this weekend for a two­game series with the Irish. Friday and Saturday nights' games will start at 7:30. 
Head Coach Lefty Smith feels that the way to achieve that success is by capitalizing on the numerous scoring oppor­tunities that have been opening up for the Irish over the last few games. 
"What we've been having a few problems with," says Smith, currently in his 19th year as head coach, "is that we've been pretty sporatic with our scoring chances, especially on the power play. Overall, our play has been all right, but spe­cial teams play a very big part in deciding the outcome of a hockey game, and we just need to be a little more consistent in 
those areas for the balance to start tipping our way." 
Alabama-Huntsville has a steadily improving program which has played the Irish evenly over the past few years. The Chargers own a 4-4-1 record against the Irish overall but have yet to win at the ACC arena. Smith, however, is wary of their team's ability. 
"Huntsville has a fine skating club," says Smith. "They attract a lot of talent out of the Detroit area and always seem to play us tough. We've shortened practices a little to keep the guys rested and caught up with their school­work over this last week, but I think this will work in our favor and that we'll be prepared for Alabama. It would be nice to finish out the first semester with a couple of wins." 
Junior Jeff Henderson will start in goal for the Irish on Friday night, and senior Tim Lukenda will take over in the nets on Saturday. Sophomore left wing Matt Hanzel is out with a knee injury, but other­wise the Irish are healthy for this weekend. 
After taking on the Chargers this weekend, the squad will come back early to prepare for another two game set in North Dakota against the Bisons of North Dakota State. The Bisons are off to the best start in the history of their program and will prove to be a formidable opponent for the Irish. Smith is slightly worried about the lack of preparation time for the se­ries over Christmas break. 
I 
"The squad gets back on Jan-r 
uary 4th, and we play in North Dakota on the 9th," said Smith. "That really only gives us four days of work but if we go twice a day, I think we should be all right. Again, I think it will all boil down to whether or not we can put the puck in the net." 
~ 






