Stress-page 10 

VOL XX, NO. 8S THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Rectors discuss proposal to revive Little Sibs Weekend for next year 
By BUD LUEPKE has blocked a little Sibs Weekend primary focus for the weekend. StaffReporter the past four years. Taeyaerts said he has distributed a Taeyaerts said he is optimistic letter to the rectors outlining the 
A proposal to revive little Sibs about rector approval for the new proposal and asking them for input, Weekend is currently under hall rec­proposal because it places tighter suggestions and objections. tor examination, according to Steve restrictions on the numbers and "Ifwe don't hear from them, we'U Taeyaerts, chairman ofthe Little Sibs ages of the brothers and sisters assume their acceptance," he said. committee. allowed to attend. The earliest time such an event 
Taeyaerts said the committee's These restrictions will eliminate would be scheduled is spring 1987 proposal must first be approved by many of the problems that plagued because of time constraints, he said. 
the Campus Life Council; then by rectors on past Little Sibs Weekends, Father Mario Pedi, rector ofSt. Ed­Father David Tyson, vice president according to Taeyaerts. "Drinking ward:s Hall, said he agreed that ofStudent Affairs. The proposal will was the main problem," he said. drunkeness was the main problem of be discussed at the CLC meeting Taeyaerts' new proposal for a past little Sibs Weekends. As a next Wednesday. little Sibs Weekend reduces the result, Pedi said he would only ac­
little Sibs Weekend offers stu­number of students with visiting cept a proposal that restricted visit­dents the chance to let their brothers and sisters to 10 to 20 per­ing siblings to a pre-high school age. younger brothers and sisters see cent in each dorm, he said. The Pedi also said the administration them in the campus environment proposal also restricts the ages of and most departments are opposed and participate in v:~rious ac•h•ities. siblings to those between 1 I and 15, to the weekend because, while ot­
Tyson has stated previously that he said. her schools use the weekend to his approval depends on hall rector Taeyaerts said interaction among recruit applicants, Notre Dame acceptance of the proposal. Opposi­brothers and sisters in sporting admissions does not need more ap­tion from the hall rectors reportedly events and games would be the plicants. 
Tile Obocrvcr I 

General Micro: Financer to blame
Tbls jogger crosses U.S. 31 at tbe Saint Mary's entrance on an early-morning run. Speculation exists as to wbetber an underpass 
Associated Press Smolev denied any allegations above were committed willfully, 
or ()llerpass Is planned to make safer tbe intersection wbere fresh­
that Associates acted improperly. maliciously and with reckless dis­
man Ker•ln Hurley was Injured last fall. Story below. 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A bankrupt "I don't feel any of these charges regard for the consequences," the computer company has accused its are warranted. Beyond that, any letter claimed. primary financer of fraud and rack­comments would not be ap­General Micro also claimed In the 
eteering practices that allegedly propriate," he told the South Bend letter that Associates·"engaged In a forced the collapse of the Tribune .yesterday. pattern of racketeering activity financially-troubled firm, according The allegations contained in the which consisted of the dissemina­to a bankruptcy court document. letter do not constitute criminal tion offalse and misleading informa­

Overpass is unrealistic, 

says Security director 
General Microcomputer Inc. of charges. No criminal charges have tion by Associates, its officers, agents South Bend alleges officials of As­been filed against Associates. and employees, by use of mail and
By CLIFF STEVENS The idea ofconstructing an al­
sociates Commercial Corp. in just before his company filed in the interstate phone system."
News Staff ternate means across U.S. 31 rose Chicago engaged in "bad faith ac­bankruptcy court, General Microin the wake of the Kevin Hurley The letter provided no details totions, fraud, duress and tortuous in­President David Bowers blamedThe idea of an underpass or accident last September. 
support the allegations and Ranselterference" and a "pattern of market forces for the company'soverpass between Notre Dame Chlebek said the high cost of would not comment.
racketeering activity" in dealing woes. The firm suffered from declin­and Saint Mary's is "not realistic," an underpass or overpass would General Micro listed debts ofwith General Micro's money ing sales to individuals and slimsaid Saint Mary's Director of he spent better on additional S22.8 million, including S7.2 mil­troubles. profit margin:. in the highly com­Security Richard Chlebek. street lighting along U.S. 31 to The General Micro office on th ~ lion to Associates, and assets of S21
petitive business market, he said.
make pedestrians more visible to Notre Dame campus has been million when it filed under ChapterAn Indiana State Highway "The effect of that is givingmotorists. "Another problem vacant since Ike. 2. 1985. I 1 offederal bankruptcy laws.
Department study of the inter­General Micro a very difficult timewith an underpass is the hazard ofsection revealed that students The allegations were made in a financially," Bowerssaid at the time. The company indicated to thesexual assault," said Chlebek. 
use the button which controls jan. 23 letter drafted by General But Ransel's letter made no men-court it plans to liquidate its assetsChlebek said a request for ad­Micro attorney ). Richard Ransel of tion of market forces and hinted the for cash rather than continue in busi­the signal an average of I out of ditional street lighting on U.S. 3I Mishawaka and sent to Associates at­computer company may sue As­ness.
1.1 times, Chlebek said. 
was turned down by the state torney Richard G. Smolev of sociates for S 1 00 million for alleged General Micro was founded in "Ifstudents do not use the but­highway department becau~<.: the Chicago. actions against General Micro. 1978 and sold business and personalton, how would you force them street lighting was determined The letter was later filed In U.S. "Debtor has a valid claim against computers through retail stores in to use a tunnel or climb up an adequate in the study. 
Bankruptcy Court in South Bend, Associates for punitive damages in lllinois, Texas, California, Florida overpass?" asked Chlcbek. "The Chlcbek said he was not aware where General Micro filed in the sum of S1 00 million in that its and Indianapolis, Fort Wayne,shortest distance is a straight December for protection from bad faith actions, fraud, duress and Lafayette, MerrlllviUe, Evansville 
line," he explained. See U.S. 31, page 6 
creditors. tortuous Interference described and South Bend In Indiana. 

Comet is clue to solar system's origin, says ND professor 
By CHRISTINE CAPONIGRI "What would you think ifyou saw SID// Reporter some unidentifiable dirty snowball shooting through the night sky and "Comets are the fossils ofthe Solar you knew nothing about It?" asked 
System," said Terrence Rettig, a Rettig, a Notre Dame physics profes­member of a scientific team from sor. Notre Dame and Fermilab who have He also gave pointers on the best reproduced pictures of the comet viewing conditions for the comet. faster than anyone else in the world. "It will be very difficult to see the 
"They give us clues as to the comet in South Bend when it will be origin of the planets," he said. "It Is closest to the Earth In the end of believed that they were formed just March," said Rettig. before the creation ofour Solar Sys­"The comet will be very low on tem." the horizon and it will be on the 
Rettig, who spoke last night at the wrong side of the sun for humans to Center for Continuing Education, get a clear view." discussed some of the history that "It is twice as far away as It was the surrounds the space object. last time it appeared in 191 0," said 

When the comet appeared in Rettig. 1664, the English believed it was an "Your best bet is to go 10-20 miles omen of the Black Plague. Comets out of the city to get away from the were used to predict disaster since streetlights," added Rertig, who said Tbe bole in Halley's comet can be seen as It burns the first one was recorded in China across tbe southern Spanlsb sky. Tbis picture was In 240 B.C. See COMET, page 7 taken wben tbe comet was 125 million miles from 


The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 2 

In Brief 
Notre Dame reached its 1986 United way goal in raising Sl80,556, it has been announced by co-chairmen Fernand Dutile, professor of law, andJames Roemer, director of community relations. Included in the total is 57,056 raised by Notre Dame stu­dents. The campus campaign goal of SI80,500 represented an 8 per­cent increase over the 5167,732 contributed in the 1985 United Way campaign. -The Observer 
Notre Dame's Institute for Clergy Education has changed its name to the Center for Continuing Formation in Mini­stry. According to center director Father Robert S. Pelton, the new name was chosen "to indicate the wider diversity and availability of our program." The center, a component of the University's Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, administers a 16 week-long continu­ing education and spiritual renewal program for priests twice a year. -The Observer 
Two Evansville legislators say a poll they have 
taken shows the resolution to lift Indiana's ban on lotteries and para­mutual betting would pass the House if it reached a vote there. 
Reps. J. Jeff Hays, a Democrat, and Vaneta Becker, a Republican, said Tuesday that at least 52 of the 100 House members signed a petition they passed around this week on the lottery issue. Only I 2 representatives have refused to sign it and the remainder had not been contacted, Becker said. -The Observer 
Ralph Richard is set to be released Monday from a Colorado jail where he is serving a drug-related sentence so he can return to Rhode Island to prepare for trial on charges he raped his 4-month-old daughter. His wife, Donna, 33, a native ofBloomington, Ind., is charged with murdering the couple's only child, Jerri Ann. They will be tried separately, with both proceedings set to begin March 31. The Richards reported the infant kidnapped Nov. 1 1, 1984. Jerri Ann's bludgeoned and raped body was discovered. four days later in an alley one block from the family's Pawtucket apart­ment. 
Of Interest 
The Keenan Revue opens tonight. The 
show will run through Saturday night, beginning at 7:30p.m. each night in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. Doors open at 7 p.m. ­
The Observer 
The Ensemble Company of the Cincinnati 
Opera will perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's at 8 tonight. Under the direction ofByron Dean Ryan, ECCO will present several selections from musical theater, operetta and opera. The concert also will include a one-act dramatic opera. Admission is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Have your tickets in hand as you queue up to 
the North and South dining halls tonight. Join University Food Services to celebrate the opening night of the lOth Annual Keenan Revue with an premier dinner. After the show bring your programs to the Night Oak or Huddle to redeem after-theater coupon specials.-The Observer 
Effective forms of pro-life activism will 
be the subject of a talk by Professor John Potts of Valparaiso Law School tomorrow at noon in room 105 of the Notre Dame Law School. All ace invited. -The Observer 
Weather 
Dandruff problems? Not necessarily. It could just be flurries early today, with otherwise cloudy skies and not as mild temperatures. High in the upper 30s. A 60 per­cent chance of light snow tonight. Low in the upper 20s. Cooler tomorrow with light snow diminishing. High in the mid 30s. 


----Ihe-Obse~~er~---------­
~ .L-==Y~ 

Design Editor.............jane Anne Riedford Design Asststant...................john Mennell Layout Staff. ........................... Ann Shipman Typesetters .................... Becky Gunderman News Editor...................... Mark Pankowski Copy Editor................................Tripp Baltz Sports Copy Editor .......... Mike Szymanski Viewpoint Copy Editor......julie Collinge 
Viewpoint Layout................. Carol Brown Features Copy Editor...... Gertie Wimmer Features Layout..................... Carol Brown ND Day Editor...................Sharon Emmlte SMC Day Editor ............. Priscilla Karle Ad Design ........................................ Fred Nelson 
Kimberly Brown Photographer ..................... Hannes Hacker 
The Observrr ( l'SPS ~99 l·-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbrObservrr is published by the studentsofthe l'niversity of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for SW per year ( HU per semester) by writing lbr Observrr, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
-46"i~6 lbr Observrr is a member of lbr Assoclatrd P~ss. All reprodut·tion right> are 
r('srrv('d 



Athletes thrown for big loss when it comes to academic courses 
Introduction to Recreation -101 
This three-credit course will examine the fun­damentals ofmany major recreational activities. Par­ticular attention will be spent on the proper height and placement ofbadminton nets in suburban back yards. 
Now, there is a course just about anybody could pass. Surely no school would offer a class called "Introduction to Recreation," right? 
Maybe you can laugh at that course now, thinking about that thermo-dynamics assignment due tomor­row, or that 500-page novel that you must read. Unfor­tunately (or fortunately for those who get to take the course), the course title is real at the University of Miami (although the actual content most likely varies from the fictitious description above). . 
The class has gained some notoriety through The Sporting News' publication of Vinny Testaverde's class schedule. 
Last semester Testaverde, the Hurricane quarterback, had four courses: Introduc­tion to Sports, Nutrition, Sports Injury, and Introduc­tion to Recreation. He also had a very good football season. 
While two of the courses are numbered "101," in­dicating that they ace freshman-level introductory courses, Testaverde is not a freshman. 
He is a fourth year junior. 
If this course list is any in­dication, his life has not been filled with too many difficult courses. I doubt he will be taking many en­gineering courses this semester. 
The course list is a second-semester senior's dream. 
At Notre Dame it would only be a dream. You cannot 
find many similar courses while paging through 
"Revised Additions" ofcourse selection guides. 
This would be another great opportunity to take a 
stance ofsuperiority and say that Notre Dame is a classy 
academic institution where student athletes really ace 
students, but that is not the real issue. 
The problem is the exploitation of the college ath· 
Jete. 

If those ace the courses Testeverde is taking in the 
heart of his academic career, I'm sure his overall 
academic experience will be very enlightening. 
He may get a degree when he graduates, but I could probably get a Ph.D. tomorrow by answering an ad in the back ofsome magazine with enough money. 
The NCAA has tried to make sure that student ath­letes ace students by requiring a certain number of courses and certain grade requirements. But how dif­ficult would it be to earn a "C" in Introduction to 

John Men nell 
Production Manager 
Recreation? 
It is much easier to pose the question of academic standards than to answer it. Some courses at Notre Dame ace significantly easier than others. Some courses may sound simpler than they ace. You cannot judge a course by its number. 
Texas has raised much national attention with its No Pass No Play Law. Students who fail any course or who do not maintain a required grade-point-average ace not allowed to participate in school athletic programs. Op­
ponents argue that this denies many opportunities that they never again will have. 
But then the opportunity for a free education does not come along every day eit­her. Of the large number of students who ace denied the opportunity to play under the Texas law, very few, if any, will make it into profes­sional sports. Everyone, however, probably will need to earn a living at some time. 
In all likelihood, Tes­taverde will be playing professional footbalL The same will not be true for an overwhelming majority of 
his teammates. Many of them probably have taken or will take the same courses he has taken. They might also graduate, get their diplomas and head out into the world -ready for nothing. 
The villian is the University of Miami. The school probably promised the recruits an educational oppor­tunity. Anyone watching the public relations spot for Miami during the halftime show of the Miami-Notre Dame football game last fall would have seen an image of Miami as a bastion ofhigher education. There may be some challenging academic programs, but I do not think Testaverde has found them. 
What Miami is doing is denying the people it recruits the education they deserve. If the school lets the ath· letes graduate, thinking they have earned a degree when in reality they have just passed through a system ofwhat can only be called shabby classes, the school has exploited the athletes. 
Mavbe there should be a list of NCAA required courses Introduction to English might be a good start tor some. 

introduces its 
~----·----~-----~VV----~----------~ 


Philly Cheese Steak Sandwich 
authentic Philly grilled, green pepper &onions, choice of cheese, mushrooms, and special cream cheese sauce. 


For 2 days (Sun. & Mon.) this sandwich will be only $2.00 (half the price)! Come in for our special introductory offer and let us know what you think! 




CREATE YOUR OWN! 
The Observer Thursday, February 6, 1986 -page 3 

The Right Turn. 
We will be on campus 
February 27 -28. Please see your place­ment office for details. 



NASA sends second ship to search for shuttle's suspect rocket booster 
AssociatedPre88 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -NASA sent a second ship yesterday to an area 30 miles from Challenger's launch pad to search for an object that could be the ill-fated shuttle's suspect right rocket booster. 
There have been strong sonar "hits" in that area, indicating that the booster may be there in 1,100 feet of water. The Independence, a booster recovery ship, was steaming in that direction to join another such ship, the Liberty Star. 
The Independence carried a robot submarine capable of photographing the object, but NASA said plans for its use were un­determined because ofachoppy sea. 
Meanwhile, television networks showed a dramatic photograph made just after Challenger exploded which clearly shows two distinct smoke trails spurting from the ship's right booster, indicating that fire somehow was coming from the side ofthe booster. 
The picture, made by an employee of a Kennedy Space £:enter contractor, shows the two boosters flying off on their own, with twin columns ofsmoke emerg­ing from the one on the left. One of the smoke trails is from the exhaust, the other appears to come from the booster's middle. 
Speculation has been that a leak in the shuttle's right booster .either penetrated the tank or warmed it to the point that its fuel· turned to gas, expanded and exploded. 
In the photograph it is impossible to tell whether the rupture is at a seam or a break in the casing. 
Sources reported, meanwhile, that ships had recovered 1 7 feet of explosives from a "destruct package" that was on the side of Challenger's main fuel tank when it lifted off. The explosives had not been detonated, the sources said, removing them from the list of pos­sible causes of the catastrophe. 
The fact that only a fraction of the shuttle and its cargo has been recovered -about 10 percent -was underscored dramatically in a videotape showing the wreckage laid out on a grid pattern of yellow lines in a NASA warehouse. 
TRW lnt 1985 TRW os the n-ame Jnd rnatK al TRW !nc 

It's not always possible to know Whichever way you turn. 
which path leads to a better Tomorrow is taking shape at a future. That's why TRW's company called TRW. Electronics and Defense Sector 
Equal Opportunity Employer 
offers you the freedom to move U.,S. Citizenship Required 
among a wide variety of oppor­tunities in microelectronics, high energy lasers, large software systems, communications, and scientific spacecraft. At TRW, 
your first choice can multiply 
into many choices. Who knows where your career 

can take you? We can only promise you'll be challenged to Electronics 

The huge room was mostly empty with Items placed here and there. Most prominent were two large sec­tions that appeared to be remnants of wings. There was nothing in the area where the crew cabin would" be. 
The crew cabin and its voice 
recorders have not been found, 
NASA said. 

The officials in charge of NASA's in-house investigation of the acci­dent were in Washington, preparing to disclose for the first time what they think caused the shuttle to ex­plode in flames. 
Their testimony will provide the first substantive public information about the accident from NASA since the catastrophe. 
The underwater search was split between two areas yesterday. The booster recovery ship Freedom Star and the landing craft Variety Novem­ber, were searching an area 15 miles east ~f the launch pad, where the water is 1 50 feet deep. The Freedom also carried a submersible, but did not put It Into the water. 
Man arrested after holding 
232 people 

hostage on jet 
Associated Pre88 

GRAPEVINE, Texas · A knife· 
wielding man took 232 people 
hostage aboard a Delta Air Lines 
jumbo jet yesterday and held them 
at Dallas-Fort Worth International 
Airport before releasing the captives 
unharmed and being arrested, offi· 
cials said. 

The man, who held a knife to a 
steward's neck, was arrested un­
harmed by airport police nearly two 
hours after the plane landed around 
6:50 p.m., said airport spokesman Joe Dealey. 
The plane, Flight 139 bound for los Angeles from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., with a scheduled stop In Dallas, had 221 passengers and acrew of 11, said Delta spokesman Dick jones in Atlanta. 
The man, who was not identified, was arrested at 8:44 p.m. after the passengers had left the craft and was turned over to the FBI, said Dealey. He did not know details ofthe arrest. 
Passengers were able to leave the 
plane by normal methods, but the 
crew was still aboard when the man 
was arrested, said Dealey. 

"I understand that the individual 
appeared to be and sounded dis· 
turbed," said Dealey. "Perhaps he 
was suffering illness. He just ap­
peared to be mentally disturbed." 

Corrections 
Because of a reporting error, 
an event title was reported incor­
rectly in yesterday's Hall Pres!· 
dents' Council story. February 
24-28 will be Focus on Unity 
week in the Notre Dame com­
munity. 

Also, because ofa reporting er­
ror an event was dated 
Incorrectly Tuesday ln an article 
about the Saint Mary's Board of 
Governance. The Keenan Revue 
Party in the Haggar College 
Center will take place tomorrow 
night after the Revue. 

Also, Mark McLaughlin's major 
was listed mcorrectly in the 
Tuesday's Observer promotions 
story. .\1cLaughlin is an 
a·.."pace/psychology major. 

The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 4 

APPhoto 
An Interview with Opus 
A Greenpeace representative makes f1-ienck. .vil!J her to gain audience with the Emperor, who ba.-·;.:s the Emperor, one of Antartica's largest penguin in a temperaturefive times warmer than normul species. The explorerfought bitterminus 12 C weat-


University gets $545,671 in grants 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame received 5545,671 in grants for support of research, equipment, service programs and other projects. Research funds totaled S419,001, including: 
• 
St6S,031 from the National In­stitutes of Health for research on blood coagulation protein-metal ion-lipid interactions by Francis Cas­tellino, Kleiderer/Pezold professor ofbiochemistry and dean ofthe Col­lege ofScience. 

• 
S79,372 from the University of Wisconsin-Madison for the study of cascading trophic interactions in lake ecosystems by Stephen Carpenter, associate professor of biological sciences. 

• 
S77,952 from the National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion for research on electron, photon and molecule-molecule col­


lision cross sections by Winifred Huo, associate professional speciali&t in the Radiation Laboratory, and Robert Schuler, Henkels professor of radiation chemistry and director of the Radia­tion Laboratory. 
• 
$42,700 from the National Science Foundation for research on transcendental algebraic geometry by Andrew Sommese, professor of mathematics. 

• 
$36,896 from the National Science Foundation for the study of finite element model surface flow simulation by William Gray, chair­man and professor ofcivil engineer­ing. 

• 
SI6,250 from the Institute for the Study of World Politics for research on asylum policies of · major countries and the refugee regime by Gilburt Loescher, associate profes­sor ofgovernment and international 


WAYNESBORO, Ga. -A 67-year­old farmer shot and killed himself moments before his property was to be auctioned for unpaid debts, the latest in a series of violent incidents linked to the farm crisis. 
"He just couldn't stand to see his whole life go on the steps of the courthouse," Deborah Jennings said after her father, l.D. Hill III, shot himself Tuesday at his east Georgia hnme. 
"He was trying his best to pay his bills." 
The shooting occurred about 20 minutes before the 700-acre farm was scheduled to have been sold at 11 a.m. on the steps of the county courthouse, Burke County Sheriff Greg Coursey said yesterday. 
"He wanted to stop the sale, which in fact he did," Coursey said. Hill's death officially has been ruled a suicide, the sheriffsaid. 
Hill owed S62,000 on the land, Jennings said. 
studies. 

• $800 from the Amoco Chemicals -show for Little Sister's Weekend will 
Research Center for an analysis of 
mixed bacterial cultures by Charles 
Kulpa, associate professor ofbiologi­
cal sciences. 

Other projects received S76,900, 
including S75,000 from the ArthurJ 
Schmitt ~oundation for the Schmitt Fellowshtp Program, and Sl,900 
from the International Resear~h Ex­changes Board for a program m the 
conception of~ogic by Michael Det­lefsen, assoctate professor of 
philosophy. 

Equipment awards consisted of a 536,000 grant from the Argonne Na­tional Laboratory for BGO detector systems to be used in physics research. Service programs ofthe In­stitute for Pastoral and Social Mini­stry received $13,770 from private benefactors. 

Indebted farmer commits suicide 
She said the family was proud that Hill had tried until shonly before the scheduled auction to repay the debt. 
"It showed his principles. It's given ~~IS!~~S:~SSS:IS!~S:IS!~~IS!~~;s::~ss;s::;sss;s::;s~;s<;;j 
us new pride in ourdaddy," shesaid. Georgia Agriculture Commis­sioner Tommy Irvin said he was not surprised by the death. The Federal Land Bank and the FPCA have begun foreclosure proceedings against 293 of Geor­gia's 50,000 farms, said Steve Rich, a spokesman for the state Agriculture Department. 



he Legendary Blues Band 

formerly The Muddy Waters Blues Band with special guest: "Southside Denny and the Skintones" 
TONIGHT ONLY 8:30P.M. $8.50 per person 
I 
SMC Board discusses upcoming Charity Ball 
ByMARILYN BENCHIK 
Staff Reporter 

The Saim Mary's/Notre Dame Charity Ball will be held May 2nd at the Athletic and Convocation Center, the Saint Mary's Program­ming Board learned last night. 
The theme this year is "A Family Celebration of Life," according to Saint Mary's student Kathi Hartweg­wen. 
The dance is expected to raise about S I 0,000 which will be donated to help ease world hunger, Hartwegwen said. 
Meg Heffernan, another student helping with the dance, said "We will hf" running activities after AnTostal. The plan's at the prelimi­nary stages right now, and we're lonl<ing from the student body, faculty and administration for sup­port, not from organizations like the United Way." 
According to Student Body Vice President Jeanne Heller, a fashion 
run from March 7 to 9. "The show will have prom and spring fashions, and Hudson's will not be running it. They have been replaced by Maurice's," said Heller. 
Anyone interested in being a model should be fitted between the last week in February and the second week in March, according to Heller. She added that registration for the weekend will be at the end of next week. 
Also discused last night was the 
"Toast to the New Year" party held 
last Friday. 
"The problem that we had with 
the Toast to the New Year party was 
not getting guys to come over, it was 
getting girls to come," said Heller. 
Sophomore Class President Sarah Cook suggested the problem may be that most people want to get off-campus for the weekends. 
Patty Curran offered a solution: "Maybe we should hold these ac­tivities on Thursday night. There might be a better turn out." 
The board also was informed of a new Century Center alcohol policy which prohibits alcohol sales at non­college events. Heller added that Century Center has been pleased with the conduct ofSaint Mary's stu­dents in the past. 
"There is nothing against the stu­dent body at Saint Mary's. Century Center enjoys the school and stu­dent· government support," Heller said. 

;::.,._,...,_..,_..,_..,_-,..-,_...,_....~......_~~~~~~"'->"'-~~~'->'->~"">'">
SOPHOMOR1rs 
~'


JU'a.fJORS 
J~ •

& S£1a.fJORS
J~, 

SPEND AN AFTERNOON IN YOUR SPECIFIC CAREER INTEREST! 
CAREER ORIENTATION DAY 
TUESDAY, MARCH 11,1986 in Indianapolis apply at the Alumni Assocation Office by Monday, February 10 $12.00 fee for transportation, lunch &dinner 
Limited space available sponsored by the Alumni Association StudentAlumni Relations Group (SARG) 
=> 


The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 5 

james White and wifejudy try to get their long Centipede kite in the air In a recent Kite Festival in New Zealand. Their 15 meter flyer was made up of360 different panels. 
ByJAMES WINKLER 
News SUI// 

Many people in the world are starVing, and the World Hunger Coalition wants to do something about it. 
The WHC Is the sponsor of the 
Wednesday lunch fast to benefit the 
hungry ofthe world. The coalition is 
much more than a few skipped 
lunches, however. 

The WHC is an awareness group made up of students who wish to help the starving of the world and make the Notre Dame campus more alert to the problem of world hunger. As the name suggests, the group works toward an alleviation of the problem of global starvation. With projects In Bangladesh, Chile, Africa and India, the coalition aims to help as many starving people as possible. 
Senior Kevin Moser is the leader of the WHC. He and a core group of five or six people work together to organize the many projects of the hunger-fighting group. Moser said he hopes that the coalition can work to make the Notre Dame student body more aware of the seriousness of hunger, both in America and world-wide. 
"We are an awareness group," Moser said. "It would definitely be 



Sponsor of Wednesday Lunch Fast works to alleviate global sta"ation 
great if more people were aware of the need for help here and world­wide. The domestic aspect Is very Important." 
Moser said that because many stu­dents at Notre Dame are of middle­class background, with little or no financial problems, It is often dif­ficult for these students to realize that world hunger exists. 
The WHC is probably best known for the Wednesday lunch fast. In this program, students give up lunch every Wednesday for a semester. In return, University Food Services donates one dollar for each meal skipped. 
Last week, Moser received a check amounting to S7,966 from Sister jean Lenz, assistant vice presi­dent for student affairs. In a letter to Moser, Lenz said "These meals were given up by those students who pledged to forego their Wednesday lunch in order to come to a greater awareness of what hunger actually feels like and to aid those less for­tunate than themselves." 
For the WHC, awareness and aid are the purposes of the fast, he said. Moser said that each semester the coalition raises nearly $8,000, representing 8000 skipped lunches. "Ten thousand lunches each semester would be great, but we are very happy with the amount we 
have now,'' he said. 
Each semester, nearly 800 people sign up for the fast, Moser said. After some time, about 100 people will drop the sacrifice program, he said. 
The Wednesday lunch fast is only one of the coalition's projects. The WHC also sponsors Hunger Aware­ness Days in conjunction with the United Nations Day of World Hunger Awareness. 
Masses for hunger awareness are held periodically, and the coalition, with the help of University Food Services, organizes an awareness program called the simple meal, Moser said. The meals, offered in each dining hall, give the student a choice of eating the normal entree or choosing a simple meal, usually of soup, bread and rice. 
The WHC has a series of activities planned for the upcoming months, according to Moser. Lectures and movies will take place in the Center for S"ocial Concerns. A walk for hunger awareness is being planned for later this year in South Bend, and the coalition is organizing a retreat in Michigan March 6-7 for reflection on world hunger. Interested stu­dents may attend the WHC's next meeting on Feb. 17. at 7:30p.m. 



WOMEN'S ROLE--­COORDINATORS OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT PRESENT 
GENERAL ADMISSION-­TICKETS TO BE DISTRIBUTED ON FEB.5, 6, &7 THRU THE TICKET STUB, BASEMENT, LAFORTUNE 
-NO CHARGE WITH STUDENT I.D.· 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10th 


7:30-·WASHINGTON HALL 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT • STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL * THE CLASSES 

i• 
c 
... 



,.. ,. .... 
'You've come a long way ...... but being a woman at ND may not be easy. 
WOMEN'S SUPPORT GROUP 
Every Thursday 5:30-6:30, starts February 6. Come to room 316, Counseling & Psych Services in Student Health Building 
All Welcome -Come Join Us! 


Mary~s to light the area at their own expense. To increase the safety ofthe inter­
"<rJQoUJe!lg {,ell aQQ OCCOS[OtlS.H
section Chlebek has requested permission of the state for Saint 
Comein and Browse

Mary's to install and maintain at its cost flashing yellow caution lights. 
327 Lincolnway 23l-3354 
Chlebek said the lights are similiar 

to those used near elementary schools. 
"It appears we probably will get permission for those lights," said Chlebek. 
Chlebek said other requests turned down by the state included the installation of a strobe light at the intersection and a delay of the traffic signal there. 
Chlebek, a former South Bend police officer for 23 years, said he can remember numerous pedestrian accidents at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's intersection over its his­tory. 
Chlebeksaid state plans to install a traffic signal at the intersection of 
U.S. 31 and Douglas Roads would im­prove the situation at the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's intersection by slowing down traffic on U.S. 31. Chlebek said the Douglas intersec­tion is itself dangerous, however, and merited the signal on that basis alone. 
"We're hoping the signal will be in place by next semester," said Chlebek. 

The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 6 
'The Color Purple,' 'Out of Africa' each garner 11 Os~ar nominations 
Associated Press time movie money-maker "E.T.-The Page, who learned about her Extra-Terrestrial." nomination while rehearsing in New 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. -"The "The Color Purple" was widely York City, said, "I'm so happy about Color Purple," the struggle ofa poor, considered..his bid for peer accep­it. I'm happy for all ofus who worked black Southern woman for dignity, tance as a director ofsubstance. on the tilm." and "Out~of Africa," a romantic tale At Spielberg's Amblin Entertain­Jack Nicholson, the cool hitman of of a Danish writer, led the field with ment, a secretary said the director "Prizzi's Honor," andJon Voight, the 11 Oscar nominations yesterday -was out of town and unavailable for escaped convict of"Runaway Train" but voters snubbed "Purple" direc­comment. were nominated for best actor, tor Steven Spielberg in his bid for ar­Setting aside the director of a along with first-time nominees Har­tistic acclaim. movie nominated for best picture is rison Ford, the detective on the run 
"Prizzi's Honor," a black comedy not without precedent. Last year, in "Witness," James Garner, the about a lovesick Mafia hitman, and the Norman Jewison-directed "A small-town pharmacist in "Murphy's "Witness," the adventures of a New Soldier's Story" received a top Romance," and William Hurt, the York cop in Amish country, each picture nod, but Jewison was homosexual prisoner of "Kiss of the captured eight nominations. The list ignored by the Motion Picture Spider Woman." of contenders for best picture of Academy. Don Ameche, 79, who started per­1985 was rounded out by "Kiss of Spielberg's star, stand-up comic forming in movies in 1936, made a the Spider Woman," about a revolu­Whoopi Goldberg, was nominated sentimental comeback by scoring tionary and a homosexual who for her role as the downtrodden his first academy no'mination for become friends in jail. It had four farm wife. best supporting actor in "Cocoon." nominations in all. "It's amazing," Goldberg said in a "I was really stunned, to tell you 
The 58th annual Academy Awards statement read by her publicist Nan to the truth," Ameche said by will be presented M;u·ch 24. Leonard. "I'm grateful and very telephone from his Santa Monica 
The nominations reflected the in­excited." home. "To be around this long and depend.ence of Academy of Motion Also named for best actress were finally get one, well, it is a tremen­Picture Arts and Sciences voters. Anne Bancroft as the stern mother dous shock, a pleasant one, I might They were unswayed by the big superior of "Agnes of God," Jessica add." bucks of 1985's biggest box-office Lange the country singer Patsy Cline Others in that category: Klaus hits. "Back to the Future" could in "Sweet Dreams," and Meryl Maria Brandauer, "Out of Africa;" manage only the song and writing Streep as the Danish novelist Isak William Hickey, "Prizzi's Honor;" nominations and two for sound, and Dinesen of"Out ofAfrica." Robert Loggia, "Jagged Edge;" and "Rambo -First Blood, Part II" Geraldine Page, the homeward­Eric Roberts, "Runaway Train." muscled its way only to a mention bound Texas woman of"The Trip to Margaret Avery and Oprah for sound effects editing. Bountiful," scored her ninth Winfrey of "The Color Purple" 
Spielberg has yet to win an Oscar, nomination. The 61-year-old actress found themselves competing against even though he has directed the all-has yet to win. each other. 
'Garbage Pail Kids' are latest fad, but some are not amused 
Associated Press and Wrinkled Rita, a Miami matron country, but he declined to release stick ofchewing gum. doing their work. with skin that looks like a dry sales figures. "I'd say there are only about five Students were "just getting 
NEW YORK -They are called sponge. Why are the cards popular? kids in my class who aren't collect­carried away," said Principal Rob "Garbage Pail Kids," and their nasti­On the backs of the cards, "Kids like them because their ing them," said Bo Bolle, a 9-year-old Peterson. ness is -deliberately -a far cry from children find a variety of citations, parents don't like them," said Rick fan in San Francisco. "Twenty-five Similar bans were enacted at the sweetness ofthe Cabbage Patch. including such things as a "Bully Anguilla, editor of Toy and Hobby out of 30, that's pretty good." elementary schools in-Ossining, N.Y. 
The trading cards with pictures of License" or a permit to eat junk food World, a trade magazine. "Once kids Guadalupe Ricco-Pena, a coun­and Montrose, N.Y., where prin­pudgy, round-faced, ugly children between meals. know they're not supposed to have selor at the Alvarado Elementary cipals were concerned with stu­doing disgusting things are the latest Several schools have banned the them, they just want them even School in San Francisco, said the dents swapping and selling the cards craze among the elementary school cards, and parents have been writing more." violent images on some of the cards during class. set, and some people are not to complain. Topps, which sold its first can be harmful. Liss said the company has 
amused. Nevertheless, Topps Chewing Garbage Pail Kids last June, was "If the child was already being received about 100 complaints from There's Acne 'Amy, a pimple­Gum Inc., better known for baseball unsure what sparkt:d the fad, al­exposed to violence in the home, parents. plagued, brace-faced adolescent; cards and Bazooka bubble gum, can­though several newspaper articles these cards could reinforce it," he 
Frances Schachter; the supervis­

Mad Mike, a savage in a leopardskin not manufacture the cards fast and a syndicated column about the said. 
ing pediatric psychologist at the 

wielding a sword and an ax; and enough to meet demand, said Nor­cards appeared shortly before sales In Greenwich, Conn., the cards Metropolitan Hospital Center in 
Wacky Jackie, in a padlocked strait­man Liss, a spokesman for the took off, Liss said. were banned from the private New York, said the cards were not 
jacket. Or Greaser Greg, with his Brooklyn-based company. He said The cards come in packs of five Brunswick School because students something that parents should getdeath's head T-shirt and a cigarette, demand was high in all regions ofthe and sell for 25 cents. That includes a were playing with them instead of 
overly excited about. 


Queen's Castle 





u.s. 31 


f(·· >t~,~:y & The Knights 
continuedfrompage 1 

ij1.J. ,;-;,.l~IB $5~~fent S8.~0 ~~~olete
ofany plans by Notre Dame or Saint 
MINUTES AWAYFROM C..iMt~: 1..., 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women included 
We also feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in minutes ...Not Hours Ironw~od & St. Road 23 (Across From Martin's) 

The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986-page 7 

APPhoco. 

An entbusiatlc crowd ralites support for Fer­Aquino for the nation's top job in a face-off that dinand Marcos in the Pbtltppine elections to be bas become fiercer recently. Story below. held tomorrow. Marcos Is challenged by Corazon 

Marcos steps up attack on Aquino 
ANoclakd Press 
MANILA, Philippines · Presi­dent Ferdinand E. Marcos, at his last rally before the election, yes­terday accused his opponents of sowing hatred and revolution during the bitter presidential campaign. Opposition candidate Corazon Aquino called him an old dictator whose time has passed. 
Speaking in a Manila park during a heavy rain, Marcos addressed these remarks to Aquin<> and her supporters: "Slow down, you children of linle brains, yo~'re no match for the administration. 


Comet 
continued/rom page I 
he will view the comet in the Sout· 
hern Hemisphere in the last week of 
March. 
Other not so widely accepted theories besides the fossil theory are comets contain organic compounds; and that they are responsible for new viruses on Earth, according to Rettig. This theory states that com­ets collided with Earth four billion 
10844 McK•nley Hwy Osceola 

674-6993
155..3068 
or call your Travel AQen1 
"I ask my opponents to stop what they have begun. You have sowed an atmosphere of hatred, anger and revolution. Now I say to you, the government of the Philippines is not defenseless," Marcos said on the last day of campaigning allowed by law for tomorrow's presidential election 
The city was plastered with posters calling Aquino "empty· headed." 
Aquino, 53, told a crowd in her home province of Tarlac: "Marcos is my only enemy." She blames him for the 1983 assas­sination ofher husband, Benigno, who had been the president's main political foe. 

years ago to produce amino acids which In turn would be responsible for human life, Renig said. 
The comet itself is composed of a head, called the coma, and two tails, one ofgas and one of dust, said Ret­tig. The coma mainly consists of compounds of nitrogen, carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. 
When it gets close to the sun, Ret· tig said, the coma vaporizes to form tails. · 
The United States does not have a spacecraft in orbit specifically for examining the comet, but an Inter-


EASY RIDER 
TO AND FROM CHICAGO'S O'HABE EVERY 2 HOURS EVERY DAY 
United Limo 
~IIUUI ~ 


mfJ!:_ 

.,1 ~,~ 1111111111W111
II' ~~'·'· Hlllll
'IIIH

, e ·. ,,,11.11111111111 , 
1

t/111111 ~~111111111111111111 I ~ ~~l•llllllllll•llr.r 
She said in a final campaign message issued by her headquarters that her campaign of"people power" had won, "and as the old dictator lurks in his palace with his dwindling band of cronies ... I warn him: do not cheat the people on Friday." 
Marcos, 68, has been in power since 1965 and ruled by martial law for ~ight years beginning in 1972. 
An official U.S. observer delegation of 20 members is here, led by Senator Richard Lugar, R-Ind., and Representative John Murtha, D-Pa. Lugar said before leaving Washington that they would feel free to criticize any election abuses they found. 
planetary Solar Explorer launched in 1978 does the job, said Rettig. Its primary purpose was to monitor the solar wind. The USSR, the European Space Agency, and Japan have spacecraft monitoring the comet's progress, according to Rettig. 
"The recent explosion of the Space Shuttle is a major setback to astronomy," said Rettig. 
"A space telescope and lab were on board for the purpose ofgaining information about Halley's Comet. It will be longer than six months before the next shuttle goes up," he added. 
Reagan wants boost in 


U.S. military spending 
WASHINGTON · In a budget that slashed dozens of domestic programs, President Reagan asked Congress yesterday to boost military spending by almost 12 percent to $320 billion to pay for a surge in space-defense research and keep vir­tually every other weapons program intact. 
"I fully appreciate the fact that we are preoccupied with deficits," Defense Secretary Caspar W . Weinberger said in presenting the fiscal 1987 spending plan to the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
"But the defense budget has become tht target of opponunistic demagoguery, and our security has suffered," Weinberger said. "The ad· ministration has made its priority choices regarding defense ... l urge the Congress to get the defense debate back to the question of what this nation's security requires." 
Committee Democrats quickly served notice that cuts were in· evitable as Congress struggles to comply with the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction act. "I do know that this budget request won't fly," said Senator Carl Levin, D-Mich. 
The request for the fiscal year beginning Oct. I totals S274.3 bil­lion in actual outlays for the Defense Department, up Sl 5.9 billion or al­most 6.2 percent from this year after the 1986 cuts under Gramm­Rudman are taken into account. 
But because many purchases of military hardware take place over several years, Congress gives more attention to the Defense Depart­ment budget authority request, which includes long-term money to acquire ships, planes and missiles. This figure would jump by $33.2 bil­lion, or 1l.9 percent; to S311.6 bil· lion in the year starting Oct. 1. 
When the money earmarked for nuclear weapons produced by the Department of Energy is added to the Pentagon amounts, total military outlays in fiscal 1987 would climb to S282.2 billion from S26'5.8 billion this year and budget authority would leap to S320.3 billion from S286.l billion. 
Senator Sam Nunn, D-Ga., said "stea~y annual increases are a thing of the past" and "the very best case we can anticipate" Is to hold defense spending at last year's level. 
Senator Gary Hart, D-Colo., predicted "total rejection of your budget." 
ND student recovering from wounds suffered in shooting 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
AsststantNews Edttor 
A 24-year-old Notre Dame law student is recovering from leg in· juries suffered in a shooting incident Friday night. 
Johri-Feggeler, an off-campus third-year law student, was released from St. Joseph's Medical Center Tuesday afternoon following sur­gery to remove the .38 caliber bullet Monday. 
South Bend police detectives were unavailable for comment last night, but Feggler said they are con­tinuing their investigation into the incident. 
Feggeler was out for a walk about 10 p.m. on WesternAvenue when he "heard a loud blast" but didn't see where the shot came from, he said. 
BACKTO THE GRIND Foryou It'• back to the boob. For u• It'• grindlnglen•e• for your better vt.lon 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
contact., s•···­
ND/ SMC STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF 
Show your I.D. and receive 
20" OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&eluding Speclala 

~ ProfessionalVISion 
~ ASSOCIATES
=-­
1341 Portage
1635 N. Ironwood 
234-2400
277-1161 

Martin's ShoppingSouth of U.S. 23 
Center 

He then felt a sharp pain in his up­per right thigh. The bullet is believed to have been fired from a handgun, he said. 
"When I realized what happened I decided I better leave the area and get help," said Feggler, who added he didn't know why he had been shot. 
Feggler said he then walked a couple of minutes to Gates Chev­rolet Corp. where employees called an ambulance and police. He arrived at St. Joseph at about 10:30 p.m., he said. 
The bullet was found lodged in tissue and had not struck any bone, he said. 
Feggler's leg is now bandaged, he said, but he Is not on crutches. He added that there was no permanent damage and he expects to be fully recovered in a couple ofweeks. 
Babies 
Don't Thrive In Smoke-tilled Wombs 


When You're Pregnant, Don't Smokel 

--~---~--------------------~---------------------------------------------------~--~--------~------------------~ 





~i~~~_{)__i_ll__t_________________
Th_ur-sda-y,_Fe-bru-acy_6_,1_986_-_pa-ge-8 
Coed dorms should be a choice for students. 
Is there a conflict between the Notre Dame administration's 
philosophy ofthe University student and the concept ofcoed dorms? Is 
it realistic to expect the University's policies on parietals and coed 
housing to be updated in the near future? 
The Observer believes it is time for students and administrators to 
begin serious discussion on these questions. This week's news series on 
parietals illustrated how in the past the Univeristy's parietals policy has 
been adapted to fit the times. We believe it is time for another such 
change. 

Obviously, many students prefer to live in single-sex dorms with 
parietals. But what about those who would rather live in a coed dorm? 
What about students who disagree with the University's parietals 
regulations? What real choice do they have? 
If a student who disagrees with the parietals regulations wishes to 
stay at Notre Dame, he or she has only one choice -to move offcampus. 
And technically, the parietals regulations apply even there. A move off 
campus need not be the only choice. 
Notre Dame students should have the option ofliving in coed dorms. 
This could feasibly be done by having some coed dorms with floor-by­
floor parietals and some dorms with none at all. This would allow the 
choice for those who prefer the privacy, security and good order that 
administrators claim parietals provide. It would also allow, however, 
those who prefer coed dorms to choose that residence life. 
Coed dorms would offer students who have faith in their own sense 
of responsibility the opportunity to live and interact in the same en­
vironment as students of the opposite sex. With the option of coed 
dorms, better and more realistic communication and understanding 
between men and women would be offered. A healthier environment 
would exist for the development ofrelationships, instead ofthe inhibit­
ing influence that currently exists between the sexes here. 
With the choice between single-sex dorms with parietals or coed dorms with or without parietals, the administration can show its faith in its students' responsibility and maturity. It would be a vote of con­fidence in the decision-making abilities of the adults that learn, live and grow together in this community.. 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, in a letter to the Judicial Council last week, addressed the administration's attitude toward the parietals issue. Hesbutgh ended the letter in a hopeful tone, noting, "The rules and regulations that guide our lives on this campus are not all etched in concrete." 
We see this as Hesburgh opening the door to discussion on the issue. Student government should initiate a forum for discussion about parie­tals, their future and the possibility of coed dorms. Students should consider seriously whether they are complacent with the present sys­tem, or whether they would invite a choice. 

-The Observer 



'So. . . . .. ~rie'ha/.s. £Jt ?. . . . . . . 'Wall, Well, Well... ' 
CBS has recently been under fire by con­servative groups because of its overly liberal bias and its poor job of reporting the news. CBS goes out of its way to present a ridiculously biased view of the world and the news. CBS has had this sad tradition since the late 1950s and it continues today. 
Rich Coglianese 
the way we were 

This sad overly liberal tradition began in 1957 when a CBS correspondent, Robert Taber, brought Fidel Castro to the limelight in America. He did an hour-long documentary that proceeded to portray Castro as a national hero. After the documentary, Taber went on to found the Fair Play for Cuba committee and he was its executive secretary. The House Committee on Un-American Activities found it to be a communist front and it finally folded after Lee Harvey Oswald, one of its members, assassinated President Kennedy. Since Taber "discovered" Castro in 1957, Castro has been a favorite ofCBS. 
That tradition continued during the Grenada, liberation. Dan Rather, in a radio commentary, said that it was a terrible thing that the Pentagon refused to allow journalists to cover the liberation. He said that if American journalists were sent to the island with the liberation force, we could then find what the islanders felt about the liberation. CBS then hired some residents of Grenada to poll a sample oftheir population. 
The results of the poll were as follows: 91 

On Philippine elections 
The press, including our own Observer, has recently characterized the present political situation in the Philippines as a result of the "snap" elections . a reference coined by the Philippine press -that President Marcos has called. The press reports, to a large degree, do not accurately reflect the true political situa­tion in the Philippines. 
Ji.mLahren 
guest column 

This column will be devoted to discussing the nature of Philippine politics in general, and tomorrow's will show why the election should not take place, in addition to illustrat­ing why Corazon "Cory" Aquino is not a viable candidate. 
My family has lived in the Philippines for almost four years now, and I had a chance over semester break to talk to officers in the politi­cal affairs section of the United States Em­bassy, in addition to questioning representatives ofboth candidates. 
Unfortunately, to be successful, much less to survive in Philippine politics, politicians must resort to practices that would be corrupt by U.S. standards. This results partly from the legacy of Spanish Colonialism. The aut­horitarian Spanish influence pervades politics as well as the society in general. Force is viewed as just one means of influencing a political outcome. The combination of this and widespread poverty creates an atmo­sphere that severly limits, if not disallows, a democratic government as we know it to function. 
Filipinos have a tendency to vote for the candidate that can promise them the most. This can take the form of vote-buying on the part of candidates, promises of physical well­being, job security and business payofi's. In the 1968 elections, the Area Handbook on the Philippines, published by the U.S. State Department, reported that campaign spend­ing totaled one third of the national budget. The 1968 presidential campaign resulted in a severe recession as well. 

Press reports from the Philippines charge that Marcos is corrupt and suggest the United States should re-evaluate its support for the Marcos regime. Marcos is indeed corrupt. I do not doubt the validity of the charges of government complicity in the murder of many opposition candii:lates. The communist insurgency is also responsible for many politi­cal murders; common victims are provincial government officials who owe their loyalty to both the KBL and the opposition. Filipinos that I talked to indicated the opposition· is equally guilty of corruption and graft -but more so that it is just a nature of Philippine politics. 
It is always a good idea to reassess foreign policy, and I do not fault this. But as il­lustrated, a knowledge of the political culture is necessary in order to reach an analytical decision. Cory Aquino is not the white knight that the American press has portrayed her to be. To be blum, the elections are a sham, and the Philippine people will suffer for it. Tomor­row's column will substantiate these charges, in addition to offering what I perceive as the most viable solution. 
jim Labren is a juniorgovernment and in· ternat<onal relations maJor. 

On a network news bias 

percent were glad that the U.S. forces freed them; 85 percent felt that we had acted to free them from the Cubans; and 85 percent believed that they or their families were in danger before we arrived there. Rather never mentioned the results of this poll on the "CBS Evening News" or the "CBS Morning News."lt was aired on a special 11:30 p.m. program on Nov. 4 and that program only mentioned that 91 percent of the population was glad that we freed them. CBS would not stoop to insult Castro. 
On Jan. 28, 1986, CBS News reached anot­her all-time low in television journalism. CBS had a camera in the school where Christa McAuliffe taught. During CBS's special coverage of the explosion ofthe space shuttle Challenger, it ran a film clip of the reaction of the students at McAuliffe's school. This was the most morbid piece ofediting done by CBS. They had the nerve to show to the American public the obvious pain and suffering that these students were going through as they watched the fiery death of their teacher. But then again, judging from CBS's past, this was no great surprise. 
In the past year, CBS has wondered why Jesse Helms and Ted Turner have tried to buy it out. The answer is so that this network will be transformed into one that will leave its ideological love ofCastro behind and will stop enjoying the display of the pain of other human beings. CBS should do what a network is supposed to do: report the news with some compassion and honesty. CBS has failed miserably in both. 
Rich Coglianese is enrolled in the Fresh­man Year ofStudies at Notre Dame. 
Quote of the day 

"It is the confession, not the priest, that gives us absolution." 
Oscar Wilde (1854-1900) 

--~------------­
"ieVVP-~O_i_n_t~-------------------------------------------Th__u_r_s,_ta_y,_F_e_bru__a_ry_6_,_19_8_6_-_P_ag_e__9 

Message at Medjugorje has meaning for all 
Our modern world Is tilled with com­plexities. There are more questions than answers and more problems than resolutions. We are continually bombarded with issues such as the nuclear arms race, war and ter­rorism -there seems to be no solution to our plea for peace. Perhaps the simplicity that we need exists in the message of peace revealed at the Croatian village of Medjugorje. 
Kim Yuratovac 
my views 

Medjugorje is located in the region of Her­cegovina which is a part of the socialist republic of Yugoslavia. Since June 1981, six teenagers of this village have claimed to see apparitions of the Virgin Mary. This phenomenon is comparable to the ap­pearances at Lourdes and Fatima, and the message is just as urgent. Skeptics may argue the validity of these appearances. However, 
Pettifer letters lacking any sense of balance 
Dear Editor: 
I do not know if other males have the same sneaking suspicion I do, but I suspect I am "Guilty!" without really knowing why. After reading Simone de Beau voir, Betty Friedan or even Ann Pettifer, I know of a thousand reasons why the male gender has overtly dis­played power, waged public wars and generally fanned its "peacockian" feathers. I can even understand the attribution of blame to "a" man, arousing a sense of guilt for specific immoral actions. 
But I fail to understand the rewriting of his­tory which focuses on the overt insensitivity and violence of males while neglecting the covert or overt inhumanity offemales. Does a history have to be written focusing on the seduction, character-killing gossip, cosmetic­fashion insanity, shopping prodigality and so forth, of females in order for there to be a sense of balance? The issue here is equi­librium, balance or even focus. In particular, I find myopic focus and no sense of balance in the c.-pious letters of Pettifer. 
Would it not be advantageous for the human race, for Pettifer and others like her, for me and others like me, to consider, judge, write, and speak with a sense of balance? Bet­ter yet, would not humanity flourish more if we thought and acted with a sense ofhope and possibility for both sexes? Think of how life could be created and fostered in the embrace of such a productive balance. Think of the contributions ofsensitive males when given a "listening" feminine ear as well as the con­trary. 
Bandwagons come and go. That is the nature of the band's music and the wagon's wheels. What will remain, ifthe human race is 10 survive (and if sperm and ovum banks are not 10 be the coming thing), is male and female: complementing, endorsing con­structive criticism, encouraging, mutually challenging, making peace and embracing. 
If we are basically "Guilty!" because of the Original Distrust or the human condition, then "we" are "Guilty!"; "we" need salvation. If "a" male or "a" female is guilty, then recognition of "the" violation Is needed and reconciliation pursued. 
What is needed is neither feminine "myoptics" nor masculine oversight. What is whether or not one believes in this miracle, the message given is too crucial to be ignored. 
The apparitions began on June 24, 1981. Two girls, Mirjana and Ivanka, had been walking in the mountains when they saw an apparition of a young woman hovering over them. They recognized her as the Virgin Mary and left to tell the others of what they had seen. When they returned to the village, they told some friends and all returned to the mountain. Upon their arrival, Mary again ap­peared. 
The apparitions occurred each day only to these six who came to the mountain. Since that first day much has happened. The Marxist government has jailed the pastor ofthe parish to which the six belong. The government has also forbidden all from going to the mountain where the apparitions occurred. Therefore, each evening these teenagers unite in their parish ofSaint James to see the Virgin. 
I have seen two videotapes of the six while they are speaking to the apparition. Simul­taneously, they fall to their knees and begin whispering in their native Croatian. They 
describe the figure they're seeing as a beauti­
ful young woman with curly black hair, blue 
eyes and rosy cheeks. Doctors from France, 
Italy, and Yugoslavia have concluded that they 
are not hallucinating. They really believe what 
they are seeing is real. 
The message that Mary is revealing is that of peace. She speaks of prayer and conversion from sin. She tells them that the world must turn from evil before it is too late. She en­courages praying ofthe rosary and a return to the discipline of fasting. These six teenagers have folowed this message by abstaining from everything but bread and water on Fridays. 
One of the key points of the apparitions is the ten secrets which Mary is revealing to the youths. They will not say anything about these except that they have to do with the faith and repentance ofthe world. The messages that Mary reveals are universal. They are meant for alJ, not only those to whom she appears. Rene Laurentin and Ljudevit Rupcic summarize the effects ofMed­jugorje in their book, "Is the Virgin Mary Ap­pearing at Medjugorje ?"They comment, "The 


P.O. Box Q 
needed is vision, with two "l's" and two perspectiv~s that help us to see well in their embrace. 
Brian Mtclot Notre Dame graduate student 

Further investigation reveals the true victims 
Dear Editor: 
In a recent column in The Observer, Uanuary 23, 1986 ), Bradley T.Johnson, Chair­man of the Indiana Federation of College Republicans, notes his apparent surprise at the Notre Dame boycott ofthe Campbell Soup Company. He goes on to discredit previous articles written in support of FLOC by Sue Yadlon and Patrick Markey by using half ofthe issue he supposedly investigated before com­ing to the conclusion that "Campbell had been victimized by FLOC supporters.." I would like to complete his investigation and would ask that each of you who read this, to decide who is being victimized in this struggle. 
First of all, the arguments introduced by Yadlon and Markey are indeed still valid today. Although the conditions of the migrant farmworkers have improved somewhat in scattered areas, they are by no means ade­quate improvements. In a recent survey, it was estimated that 9S percent of migrant farmworkers still experience severly deprived conditions. 
Second, Campbell and FLOC have worked to establish a joint commission which is indeed headed by former Secretary of Labor John Dunlop. However, I would invite Johnson to elaborate on exactly what this commission has accomplished toward im­proving migrant farmworker labor condi­tions, such that he might find out how .inefficient this commission has proved to be. 
Third, Campbell has worked to establish ap­proximately three day care centers, but three centers hardly serve the thousands of migrant children that oculd benefit from such care. Furthermore, Campbell only directly sub­sidizes eight farms in the state of Ohio. Again, this merely scratched the surface. 
Finally, I would like to assert that ifJohnson 
really believes that FLOC is truly victimizing 
Campbell, then he must not end with con­
demning FLOC, for the following groups also 
support the boycott: Ohio Catholic Bishops, 
Mexican-American Political Association, United Farm Workers, the Democratic Na­tional Committee's Hispanic Caucus, League of United Latin American Citizens and the Ohio commission on Spanish Speaking Affairs, to name a few. Moreover, until we can get some sweeping changes in the living and working conditions of the farm workers," states Baldemar Velasquez, "we will not stop the boycott." The NO-FLOC support groups will continue its efforts by working to educate other students about the farmworkers plight, work to support the boycott of Campbell products on Notre Dame's campus and to en­courage your families to support the boycott at home. Hasta Ia victoria. 
Maryjane Lorton Notre Dame FLOC supportgroup 


New Christian's fervor resembles early Church 
DearEditor: 
Kumno. That's the way the Khasis say "Hello." The Khasis are the people ofShillong in northeast India where the Pope visited Tuesday. Coming from Shillong I thought I would share a few memories of Shillong with 
you. 
Shillong is the capital of the state of Meg­halaya, India, very near Bangladesh. The people of Meghalaya are comprised of three main tribes: the Khasis, the Garos and theJain­tias. Each speaks a different language. The word Meghalaya means "Abode of the· Clouds" and that's very obvious when you walk on some of Shillong's hilltops with your 
head up in the clouds. 
Shillong is a place with gentle hills, vibrant waterfalls, pine trees and pure air. The young people ofShillong are ardent rock 'n' roll fans and love music. ShiHong is the education center for northeast India. In fact, it could well be called the "student's city." Walking by one of Shillong's winding streets you would meet students from different parts of northeast In­dia: a Naga student from Nagaland, a Mizo from Mizoram or an Assamese from nearby As­
sam. 
Christianity is new to northeast India 
about 100 years old. Being new, you can feel 
the spiritual fervor in some of the people you 
meet. I remember being invited to share 
scripture with some friends from my univer­sity. It gave me a glimpse ofwhat it might have been like in the early days ofthe Church when the Spirit was so alive. At the end ofthe fellow­ship, I realized that I had gained much more than I had shared. 
Then there are the young kids In Shillong's many schools. Every year a group of young Catholic students organizes a gospel music concert and invite these kids to present items. We would have capacity crowds ofkids enjoy­ing other kids' performances. 
My favorite memory is of the tension on my campus between rival student groups. One 4ay the situation was explosive. A group of us got together and tried to see if we could find a "common ground." We found one. The rival student leaders all agreed to come to a prayer meeting the next day. Believe me, it was quite something to see the same people of the previous day in the same room, doing someth­ing in common. We did not see immediate results; we did not lose hope either. It taught us a lesson: In a seemingly conflictive situa­tion, when there appears that there is no way out, it is possible to build bridges of com­munication. We just have to try. South Africa ... Middle East .... 
Let me end with another Khasi greeting. Kbublei -Thank you. Bruce P. Come Graduate student 

Do not ruin privilege by ruining auditorium 
DearEditor: 
Ever have a class in the Engineering Auditorium on a Monday morning? Well ifyou did, you probably know that a Monday could start off on a better foot. Besides the fact that there could be some cans, bottles, wrappers or popcorn bags left on the floor from the weekend's feature film, the place has the familiar odor of beer which has been left or spilled in the Auditorium. 
The Engineering Auditorium Is a classroom and is supposed to be used for academic purposes. We ask that no food or beverages of any kind be brought into the Auditorium while the movies are being shown. 
Please don't jeopardize the future of this privilege, because we all know how long South Bend winters can be. 
Donna Callis SAB Movie Commissioner 


P. 0 Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 9) 239-5303 
Tt,e Observer •s the •ndependent newspapet" published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Samt Mary·s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admm1strat1on of etthet" InStitutiOn. The news IS reponed as accurately and objectively as pos­s•ble Uns1gned ed•tonals represent the op1nion of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen­ranes. leners and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authOI'S. Column space is ava1labfe to all members of the community and the free expreSSion of varying opinions on campus. through leners. IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief .............................Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. A.my Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Petet" C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
meaning of Medjugorje is very simple. It is a 
return ofthe beginning ofthe Gospel, a return 
to John the Baptizer, the prophet of repen­
tence, prayer and fasting. The rest will be 
added including the overcoming of the criti­
cal situation in which the world finds itself. 
The process has already begun at Medjugorje. 
The young people who have seen the appari­
tions can witness to it. It is up to us, with the 
grace of God, to do the rest." 
The message of Medjugorje has endured many difficulties. Due to governmental suppression, this message hasn't yet touched much ofthe world. However, those who share in this secret must recognize the urgency with which Mary beckons. She Is pleading the message of peace and prayer. This simple message can be an answer to the complexity ofthe problems in the world today. Ifall were to heed this calJ, the world would be in a state of harmony. Let us hope this message is soon acknowledged. 
Kim Yuratovac is a freshman at Saint Mary's and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Operations Board 
Business Manager .... ................. David Stephenitch Controller .................. ......... William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager.. . . Jim Hagan Advertising Manager ................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager............ ..... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager .............. John A. Men nell 
Founded November 3, 1966 




Accent 

PATII TRIPATHI 
features writer 
T 
he perfect couple: Suzy and 
Tommy. As long as one can 
recall they have been inseparable. 
Their constant companionship is 
indicative of their strengthening 
bond. You are envious of their 
relationship which appears to be 
the ideal. Then, to much astonish­
ment, you discover they are no 
longer a couple. 
Coping with and after a relation­
ship (or lack ofone) is a situation 
common to every student and 
Academic-re­lated tension is the major root of Notre Dame students' stress. 
every college. At Notre Dame, it is a very close second on the list of stress-causing situations. 
According to the Counseling & Psychological Services Center, slightly ahead ofanxiety due to relationship is anxiety due to academics. Academic-related ten­sion is the major root ofNotre Dame students' stress. 
"Students are bright and very competitive and work harder at Notre Dame. They have a lot of talent and when their goals and 



ress 
expectations are not upheld they become stressed," said Wayne Pellegrini, a clinical psychologist at Counseling and Psychological Services Center. 
"Stress at Notre Dame appears to be caused by students pushing themselves too far for the grades," agreed Ursala Williams, a professor at Notre Dame. 
Events, ideas, and feelings, both positive and negative, produce the anxiety felt by not only the students but every one. Stress affects the individual biochemically by affect­ing the adrenal glands. 
The social atmosphere at Notre Dame, the midwest location, roommate, rector, organic chemistry, the dining hall food, the Catholic environment, the expecta­tions ofgood performance as well as developing a sense ofautonomy away from the family are some events, ideas, and feelings which may make the students a victim of stress. 
Several effective techniques exist to diminish or minimize stress to a tolerable level. It is important to note that physical symptoms may have purely physiological causes. A medical doctor should eliminate the possibility ofsuch physical problems before proceeding on the assumptions that symptoms are completely stress-related. Some common stress symptoms among the students are intestinal problems, insomnia, headacke, fatigue and mild depression. 
Time management may provide a possible solution for those students who are academically stressed. A suggested advice is to write down short term, moderate term, and long term work that needs to be According to Pellegrini allowing According to Davis Dwelling on 



done. Cross them offthe list after oneself to biochemically relax, by worries produces tension in the completion and utilize the excess sitting down or listening to music body, which in turn creates the time. "Prioritze goals and activities. also exceeds the body's capacity to subjective feeling ofuneasiness and 
Effective time management min­deal with ~tress. "Stress is internal. leads to more anxious thoughts. imizes deadline anxiety and By taking I 0 minutes to relax in fatigue," advices Martha Davis, the complete silence can have un­So ifthat romance that took Suzy author of"The Relaxation & Stress believable results," said Mychal and Tommy so much effort were to 
Reduction Workbook." Schultz. fail, dealing with their dissensions 
"Try to make a connection bet­Hobbies, sports and exercise also and feelings openly may ease the ween the activity and the tension to relieve stress "only if it biochemi­painful momement and also min­help rid the source of stress," said cally quiets the body and rids it of imize a considerable amount of 
Pellegrini. excess adrenaline." stress. 
Physical problems may be the result of stress 
Special to The Observer 
D 
octors report that more than 
halfofthe complaints they 
receive from patients are stress­
related. Stress is a condition tllat 
results from pressure, worry and 
frustration, says the Indiana State 
Medical Association. 
It is the result ofhow you react to certain circumstances and ifnot dealt with properly, it can take its toll on your physical and emotional well-being. In fact, prolonged stress has been linked to acute illness, depression and chronic disease. 
AccordingtoiSMA,everyone experiences stress, but the key is to learn how to define what is causing the stress and then deal with it appropriately. Stress can be either positive or negative. 
Positive stress is the reaction to taking a vacation, getting a raise or promotion, attending a wedding, or welcoming a new grandchild. It can also be the reaction of moving into a new home, making a new friend, your marriage, or your involvement when working on a social project. 
Negative stress is created from events and circumstances such as the death ofa spouse or loved one, illness, divorce, relocating, or finan­cial problems. It can also be the result ofretirement and the separa­tion offamily members. This type of stress can become chronic because solutions to these problems are not found easily. 
Stress causes large amounts of chemicals to be secreted in the body. This causes muscle tension and increased heart and respiration rates. 
Stress can also cause digestive problems, a lump in the throat, loss of appetite, butterflies in the stomach, and diarrhea. Some major diseases like heart disease and can­cer are often aggravated by stress. Long periods ofchronic stress can be very dangerous and can even have an effect on how well and how long we live. 
Excessive drinking and smoking will also add to stress, says the ISMA. Practicing poor nutritional habits and not watching caffeine and sugar intake can contribute to feelings of anxiety. 
There are many methods ofover­coming stress, but you must be determined to take the initiative. First, learn how to relax. This may include taking a hot bath or going for a walk. Whatever you decide to do, be sure it is something you enjoy.Exercise is a good tension reliever. Breathing deeply and exhaling very slowly can also reduce tension. Other tecniques you can use to deal with stress include: 
• 
Eating nutritional meals 

• 
Thinking positively 

• 
Learning to accept yourself 

• 
Confronting you fears or unrealis­tic perceptions ofyourself 

• 
Expressing you emotions rather than bottling them up for a big explosion. 


Remember, all stress is not bad. Consider a change in your social activities, personal habits, or work responsibilities. Changes like these are healthy and will help keep you fresh and lively. 

Special to The Observer 
T 
o help you determine your source ofstress, here is a list of"Life's Events." :\dd the scores of the events you have experiences in the last 12 months. 
1. Deaili. ofa spouse ................................................................ 100 ~-Di,()1rC:e................................~ .................................................. ~~ 
3. Personal in.jucy or illness ..................................................... 53 
4. Marriage ................................................................................. 50 
5. 
Retiretnent ............................................................................. 45 

6. 
Change in healili. offamlly member.................................... 44 

7. 
A new job ................{................~~~-.-~ ........................................ 43 fl. Clluaurl~e in flbrlanc:~l ~14l1lul~ ••••••••••••••••••..•••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••• ~fl 


9. 
Deaili. ofa close friend .......................................................... 3 7 

10. 
Trouble wiili. relatives .................... -:····································· 29 

11. 
Outstandin.g personal achievement .................................. 28 

12. 
Change in. livin.g conditions............................................... 25 

13. 
Revision ofpersonal habits ................................................ 24 

14. 
Change in soc~l activities .................................................. 18. 

15. 
Change in family get-togeili.ers .......................................... 15 


16. 
Change in. sleepfug habits .................................................. 15 

17. 
Change in eating hablts ...................................................... 15 


18. Adjusttnent to living alone ................................................. 10 
Ifyou score totals 300 or more, you can assume that you've had significant amounts ofstress in your life over the last 12 months. On the other hand, ifyou score is 100 or below and you're dissatisfied with your life, or ifyou feel like life is stale or humdrum, it may be time for a change. 
Paid Advertisement 

-

Key to job search is preparation 
There is an office in the lower more than 250 companies visited 
level of the Memorial Library. The the campus to recruit Notre Dame 
majority of seniors know about it. students. 
Many juniors arc aware of it. And a Most on-campus interviewing is 
few sophomores and freshmen directed toward graduating seniors. 
know it exists. . There arc, however, some inter­
Career and Placement Services is views for sophomores and juniors 
an office that can aid students in any for summer internships. 
facet of career development and in Joan Mcintosh, career counselor, 
job search techniques for summer recommends that students visit the 
and full-time employment. Career Library. It contains a wide 
There arc dozens ofopportunities variety of career publications and 
untapped by most students. Procras­corporate literature. She also 
tination is usually the culprit. Many reports there arc many small group 
students put off discovering what workshops and presentations with 
they arc interested in doing after subject matter ranging from how to 
graduation until senior year. Un­decide on a career to job search 
nerved parents usually have a way of skills and techniques. Students may 
convincing students that the real attend these workshops at no 
world is right around the corner. charge. 
It doesn't matter where you are in A computer-assisted career in­
your career search. There arc formation and guidance system 
services in all areas. called DISCOVER is available for stu­
The Career and Placement dent use. It offers a very systematic Services office has three profes­approach to careerdecision-making. sional staff members and a part-time "With all of the confusion out counselor to assist you with in­there about careers, it is difficult to dividual counseling sessions. Ac­understand why more students cording to Kate Dascenzo, a.'isistant don't take full advantage ofour assis­direnor, "Most students wait until tance," states Kitty Arnold, director they're forced to take some action of the office. "We're delighted to and that puts them at a distinct dis­help, but they (Notre Dame stu­advantage." dents) have to take the initiative to 
Dascenzo added that in the long ask for it," she adds. run, it is easier for the student to begin counseling as early as pos­There arc probably still students sible, even if this counseling only that have doubts about whether it reaffirms his or her own thoughts. would be worthwhile to check these Unfortunately, not enough students things out. After all, some students take advantage of this service. won't be graduating until 1989. But 
Along with individual counseling, the years roll by quickly, and it is.al­
on-campus interviews are arranged. ways easier to win the race when ln 19H~ there were approximately you're ahead than to catch up when 
I0,000 on-campus interviews and you're lagging behind. 

Assistant Director Paul Reynolds counsels sophomore Patrlci Foy. 



Career and Placement Serolces offers a variety of opportunities throughout the year. Above, stu­dents wait patiently for their on­campus lnten!/ews. At left, a student talks to a representalitJe at the annual MBA mini-forum (above), while another student takes part In one ofthe thousands of lnterolews conducted on campus each year. 

Freshman year is not too early to start planning your career 
"It's never too early to start. Talk and goals. In short, they should dis­Sophomores and juniors should to as many people as you can. Don't cover and understand what makes consider talking with experts in dif­
procrastinate." These are the com­them "tick." ferent career fields to receive first· ments of John Cywinski, a 1984 Research is a significant aspect of hand information. Only then will Notre Dame graduate in manage­the job campaign for students they have the knowledge and ex­
ment who now works as an assistant unsure of the opportunities pertise to perform well during the account executive with the Leo Bur­available for someone with their ap­interview process. nett advertising agency. titudes, major and background. Chris Hirschfeld, a senior govern­
Preparation is the key ingredient Many reference guides are available ment/ALPA major, who has ac­to a successful job search. Many stu­in the Career and Placement cepted a job offer with the dents return to campus for their Services' library. management information consult­
senior year with the intention of ing division of Arthur Andersen and taking interviews and conducting an Mike Harvey, who received his Company, summarizes his success 
extensive mail campaign. Far too of­mechanical engineering degree last by stating, "In my junior year, l read ten these students have done very May and is now a production all the material l could find about little to prepare for what should be a manager at the lvorydale Food Plant planning my career. r learned a lot 
high priority in their final year at of Procter & Gamble asserts, "You about myselfand what I did or didn't Notre Dame. can't wait until your senior year to want to do after graduation. Taking 
The career search is a difficult and begin looking at different careers. the time, putting forth the effort, and time-consuming process. Students Start now by going to the placement becoming actively involved in your must first assess themselves -their office and finding out what they job search early will pay off." And 
pay off it did.

values, interests, skills, weaknesses have to offer." 



What to expect when you face th 
Most students have lived away nificant transition from books to • It costs a lot to heat an apartment in mentions a few more practical front. It may be three orJour weeks 
from home while attending Notre briefcase is one of continuity. As a January. hints that can be taken into the before you receive a paycheck. Be Dame. This experience should be professional, your range of focus • Hotdogs, yogurt and beer are not field. prepared to pay a month's rent in ad· helpful when your wings are must be ex.panded beyond the im· staple foods. vance as well as a security deposit. In snipped on graduation day mediate future. The practice of • Plans are made eight months to a John Runger 1984 graduate addition, you may have to send a However, there is no guarantee ofa cramming and forgetting, which year in advance. -Economics/ALPA deposit to get your phone and other smooth transition. worked so well for exams, is inap­• Retirement plans are a real con­The Citizens and Southern utilities. 
The following testimonies from propriate. sideration. National BankofAmerica. Don't be in a big hurry to rush out 1985 graduates offer helpful hints In addition to this philosophy, • Dress shoes have laces. Leaving home, leaving the college and buy a new wardrobe. Wait a on what you might expect when there are some specific, perhaps • Mom will cook you anything if you life and striking out on my own to couple of weeks to get a feet for the you enter the "real world zone." more trivial, points worth noting: come home for Sunday dinner. begin my career was an exciting ex­style of your company. Within six 
• The two or three suits which were • College football is fun · profes· perience for me. Let me share a few months, you'll finally begin to feel Jim Malackowski great for a summer internship soon sional football counts. things to help make the transition a comfortable in a suit. 1985 graduate become too few, too worn, too • Your co-workers have serious con­little easier. It took me a while to adjust to -Accounting plain. versations over household Arrive in your new city at least a being in the office for eight or more Peterson A: Company • A two week summer vacation is appliances, station wagons and trac­couple of days before you have to straight hours. A day in the office is a Given that I, like many Notre not long enough. tor mowers. report to work. You'll have plenty to lot longer than three morning 
Dame seniors, had some exposure to • Married people are now the keep you busy as you get moved into classes followed by lunch and a two· a "real world occupational environ­majority. A sense of humor can be a good an apartment. Your cash flow can hour nap. ment" prior to graduation, I • Although still critical, money is no survival technique when the going really get squeezed, since most of I can't emphasize enough that honestly believe that the most sig· longer the determining factor. gets a little rough. Ortr next report your payments need to be made up you've got to find a job that you en-
Recruiters look for packaging, ~nthusiasm, well-roundedness 
"What do recruiters look for in dent's degree and GPA have met packaged right," added Kelly. potential job applicants?" is a ques­minimum company requirements. Expanding one's experiences and tion students often ask. Unfor­interests can be very beneficial tunately there is no single answer. Astudent's work experience does when it's time to look for a career. But there are similar ingredients that not necessarily have to be within his There isn't one variable that stands help recruiters identify strong can· or her career area or academic out in importance when recruiters didates. major. "There are many skills that search for qualified graduates. Col· 
One key word is used by many students have picked up by working lecting different experiences and recruiters when confronted with at summer or part-time jobs. Even skills can bring about well-deserved such a question. That word is "well· skills learned at McDonalds can be rewards that some students may not 
rounded." Although this may seem sold to a bank recruiter if they are anticipate. vague, it does indicate that most recruiters do not hold one charac· teristic over another in importance. 
Cathy Kelly, college relations manager for the Northern Trust Company in Chicago, states, "Well­roundedness is very important; we're not just looking at one dimen~ sion." She went on to add, "The bot· tom line is how well students communicate and package them­selves." 
Appearance, attitude, interest in the particular company, com­munication skills and extracur· ricular activities are just a few of the factors recruiters take into account.
It is no secret that engineering ducted by Erich Bloch, director of 
A candidate communicates a
graduates are in high demand in the National Science Foundation, 
positive, enthusiastic attitude
the job market. The salaries they there has been a decline in engineer­
through his or her general
receive also indicate their skills ing Ph.D's since 1976. This has 
demeanor. Thorough knowledge of
caused a shortage in research and 
the field and the particular company
development in both education, 
shows the recruiter that the student
government and industry. 

has a strong interest. Recruiters
The study implies that the 
assess the student's level of maturity
downward trend may affect the 
by asking about specific experiences
United States' lead in technology ad­
in which the student showed depen·
vances. Other countries are produc­
dability, leadership and an ability to
ing proportionately more engineers 
set priorities. Connie Caldwell, a
Good engineers are products of and scientists with advanced 
recruiter from McDonnell Douglas
strong academic engineering degrees. The possibility of closing 
in St. Louis, takes all of these 
programs. Some concern has the gap in technological research 
qualities into account after a stu­
developed on the potential shortage and development is a very real fac­ofengineering faculty. According to tor. Jerry Marley, assistant dean in the With overall college enrollment College of Engineering, "There is dropping because of the decline in 

The sky's the limit in AL careers 
some shortage that exists, but it is college-age population, there will be not as acute as a few years ago." The less engineers and science graduates 
question surfaces when planning for to enter advanced education One of the most frequently asked University of Illinois-Chicago. Arts tently, and using analytical tools to the future, will the shortage con­programs. Active recruitment for questions of career counselors by and Letters majors must stop under­solve problems or make decisions tinue to decrease? American doctoral candidates is Arts and Letters students is, "What estimating themselves and apologiz· are just a few of these skills. 
The areas of electrical engineer­needed. type of job can I obtain with my ing or making excuses for their By the time Program of Liberal ing and electronics show more signs Many students don't see graduate major?" Though a slight exaggera­major. Last semester, many Studies, Sociology or English majors ofa shortage than do other engineer­education as a viable option because tion, an appropriate response might employers interviewing liberal arts reach their senior year, they should ing disciplines. This is probably be· of assumptions they have be, "The sky is the limit." students on campus reiterated this recognize that as a result of their cause there is more demand for developed. The College ofEngineer­point to an assistant director of the academic background, extra­
these types of engineers in industry. ing at Notre Dame is making a con· Career and Placement Services curricular activities and job ex­Marley says there is not neces· certed effort to make information 
office. periences, they posess attributes which every employer is looking for sarily a shortage within graduate available to students. 
Arts& 
schools. There has been an increase The cost of advanced education Halfway through an interview, in a job candidate. in the number of foreign nationals can be frightening. However, most Letters after making a positive first impres­Robert Callander, who received a attending graduate programs. students in technical graduate sion, one liberal arts senior stated bachelor's degree in history from Foreign nationals now comprise ap­programs are supported by tuition areas of the that, "I probably should have been Dartmouth College and is now presi· proximately 60 percent of the total remission and a stipend. This makes work world which require an en· an engineer, but now I'm trying to dent ofChemical Bank, states that "a number ofstudents. it much more easily accessible to all gineering or science background, make the best of the situation." A liberally educated person is still the 
When the foreign nationals students with the right credentials. the opportunities for Arts and Let· comment such as this tends to type ofindividual needed at the big· receive their doctorates, they Ifa Ph.D. is in the future, students ters majors at Notre Dame are vir· negate the positive Image the best levels of corporate life. We usually take their achievements and are not locked into academics. In· tually unlimited. From career fields employer might already have about need people with a broad base to knowledge back to their own dustry is putting individuals with as diverse as retail management, a candidate. their educational pyramid. Techni­
countries. This leaves the United doctoral degrees to good use. health care, industrial sales, and the cal skills can be built upon this States with a shortage ofprofessors. The need is there. The oppor­social services to those in advertis­base."
Arts and Letters students must American society plays a big role tunities are there. Ifthere is a match, 
ing, banking, communications, and take pride in their major. They must in influencing where college it is necessary to seek accurate in· financial services, varied oppor­recognize that they have gained There is no educational path to 
graduates head after graduation. formation before making career success, but the individual who has
tunities exist. many skills at Notre Dame which 
Career-oriented trends which have decisions. learned how to think and is willing 
can be transferred to the world of 
developed over the years have some Making a major technological "Many liberal arts students are to keep learning will succeed in life, 
work. influence on young engineers enter­breakthrough or teaching future defeated before they start," says both personally and professionally. ing industry as opposed to academia. scientists for tomorrow's world has Roland Swain, retired Director of Speaking and writing well, learn­An Arts and Letters education helps According to a national study con-a pretty impressive ring to it. Career Placement Services at the ing to think logically and consis· to produce such people. 






Paid Advertisement 

real world' 
joy. A forty or fifty hour week is much too long to be in a job that you don't enjoy. 
Weekends can never be too long. I have learned to appreciate them more. I can sleep in, I don't have to dress up or drive downtown, and hopefully I can forget about work until Monday morning. 
I also appreciate vacations more. You fed as though you have really earned them. Two or three weeks though, Is difficult to get used to after long breaks In college. 
The transition Is challenging. You've got to be flexible and learn to adapt to the changes you will face. College has to be the greatest years ofour lives. But like everything else, those years must end. 
life in the "real world" is not all u•ork. The abtltty to adjust flows ot'er into your social life. The transition can bejust as difficult as in yourprofessional setting 
Dawn Freehafer 1985 graduate 
-Mechanical Engineering 
Team Manager, 

The Procter A Gamble Company 
The day had finally arrived! l was free at last · a Notre Dame graduate offto work in a new city· Cincinnati, Ohio. I was excited to meet new friends, face new challenges, have no homework and especially, receive new paychecks. 
My roommate, a fellow Domer, would not be arriving with me. I was on my own for the first two months. 
A word of warning: 
james W. bad been working sucn•ssfui~J' as an auditor in a large public accounting fimJ for two "umtbs u•ben be was called into his supert•lsor's office and fired. Ills u•ork bad been far abot'e at•erage, and his superroisor bad been impressed with his rapid grasp of the complicated procedures in­t•olt,etl intbt• u•ork. W~p was such a good perfomwr summari~y ter­minated? A reference check ret•ealed that be bad falsified his GPA on his resume. 
While the person abov'e is fic­titious, the story is a common one. Resume falsification appears to many human resources representatives to be a common oc­<."Urance, and they are taking action to protect their firms. 
Rderence checking is becoming much more rigorous. Some firms have begun to demand that students present course transcripts at their initial lntc:rviews on campus to avoid the problem of GPA or course work discrepancies later in the employment process. 
The Midwest College Placement Association recently conducted a survey of its members concerning incidencc:s of falsification ofcreden­tials among job candidates. While the results were mixed, the fact that 
Listed below are different career areas These areas and majors are in no way and the pbssible academic majors that conclusive and should be seen as pos­usually are associated with the area. sibilities in searching for a career. 
CAREER AREA POSSmLE MAJOR CAREER AREA POSSffiLE MAJOR 
Advertising· Public Relations communlcallona Ubcral aru Insurance buslnesa mathematics economics management computer science science fnl!llth market:Jng engineering 
goyernmcnl poychology Journallsm sociology Publishing business management Enl!llsh marketing
Banldng-Sc:curltlc:s accoundng 1/btraJ llrtl history poychology compuccr science management journalism sociology economics mathematics finance 
bualne8S 1/bcTlllaru
Rc:tail 

economics poychology
Computer Science computer science engineering sociology
governmentcomputer appl. mathematics mllrul8Cment info. 1yate01J Salc:s computer science mathematics
Tc:chnical-Nontc:chnlcal 
engtnecdns poychology manaaem~nt science
Government-Politics buslncu hlltory 
marketing SOCiologycommunlcaUont politlcaiiCience «onomlca j>oychology sovcrnmcnt sociOlOBf 
Telc:vislon-Radlo

"Human Sc:rvlces­buaineu poychology communications hlotory Enl!lilh Klcncea 
economics journalismHealth Administration Enl!llsh llberalaru
hJawry sociology UbtTlllaru ,government 
a study was done at all indicates the seriousness with which college placement officials approach this. issue. 
Some of the firms polled reported that they have hired outside creden­tial verification services to check on the accuracy of information given on applications by either potential employees and/or recent hires. 
Many recent graduates are surprised to find that some employers continue to verify credentials and references even after the individual is hired. While not as expedient as a complete pre­hiring check, verification of a new employee's qualifications is nevertheless considered important. Also significant is the fact that the vast majority of firms consider the falsification of information on an ap­plication or resume grounds for ter­mination no matter when it is discovered. 
Because of the serious conse­quences ofany type ofperceived un­ethical actions, student~ entering the job market should exercise ex· treme care and prudence. The Notre Dame Career and Placement Services office subscribes to the ethical guidelines established by the College Placement Council and provides copies of these guidelines iq each year's Placement Manual. 
We chose a two-bedroom, two­
bathroom apartment. The two 
bathrooms came in handy since we 
both get ready for work at the same 
time. The apartment was great, but 
with little furniture it was empty and 
lonely. 
Unlike my arrival at Notre Dame as a freshman, the majority of the people in Cincinnati were not eager to meet new arrivals. In fact, while I was hauling my belongings into my apartment, one of my neighbors came out to get her mail. I smiled and said, "Hi! I'm Dawn. I'm moving into apartment 1012. How are you?" She grunted -yes grunted -walked into her apartment and shut the door. Admittedly I was sweaty, but what kind ofgreeting was that? 
Despite the slow start, I have met many other young people who work for Procter & Gamble. We met while attending "new hire training ses­sions." These were new people eager to meet other new people. 
The pool and tennis courts in my apartment complex proved to be a great spot to meet my neighbors and get valuable tips on where to shop, eat and scope! It was easy to start a conversation once people found out I was new in town. 
Church, classes and the local Notre Dame Club are other places to meet new friends. If you get really desperate for human conversation, you can always try slamming your grocery cart into the cart of an at­tractive member ofthe opposite sex. Ofcourse, I can't guarantee results! 

The discovery of the one-week vacation 
.... 

If at first you don't succeed. • • 
should realize that you could very well be a member ofthat 20 percent. su'PP~se you don't want to work 
Plan B does not necessarily mean for a laige corporation, or a major a complete change from plan A. It._ financial inSti!:ution or an industrial could be applying to a graduate ', organization. Maybe you were con­
school with easier entrance require­ments, putting off law school for a year or two, or applying to a com­pany with less stringent hiring re­quirements. 
Plan B is developed to cushion any setback you may have in your original plans. It is a realistic in­surance policy so you don't come up empty-handed on graduation day. 
Plan B should not influence your confidence or success in plan A. 
sidering working with kids in an inner-city neighborhood, or working to promote peace, or hel­ping the-elderly in a small town. Per­haps you would like to use particular skills, such as accounting or en­gineering, in the setting of a non­profit agency. 
It is not unusual for Notre Dame students to consider such al­ternatives. Many students have gained great satisfaction from postponing their careers to engage in volunteer work or beginning their careers in a non-profit agency. It may not seem as glamourous as a Fortune 500 corporation or the easiest path to follow, but it can meet certain students' needs. 
In 1985, several students turned down lucrative job offers to enter the Holy Cross Associates. lbis year considerations like these still exist. Remembering that it is not unusual to consider theSe options may aid in evaluating alternatives. 
Career and Placement Services receives information from hundreds of non-profit agencies, both religious and secular. Many of these offer volunteer positions and inter­nships as well as long-term careers. 
Just as in more traditional career paths, these organizations need in­dividuals who have analyzed their personal interests, aptitudes, and skills and can state their career goals clearly. 
To find out more about al­ternative careers, stop by the Career and Placement Services library or make an appointment with joan Mcintosh, a career counselor, to dis­cuss your plans on ·an individual basis. 
The Peace Corps and Holy Cross Associates are well-known to most Notre Dame students. Listed below are just a few of the many other groups that express Interest in Notre Dame students: 
Working with youth: Covenant One Community National Commission on Resources for Youth Vision Quest YWCA and YMCA 
Peace Work: Freeze Voter jobs With Peace Peace Development Fund 
Conservation: The Student Conservation Program 
Community Service: Christian Appalachian Project Claretian Volunteers Twin Cities Urban Corps Volunteers for Education and Social Services (VESS) 
Legal Work: Legal Sc:rvices Program ofIN (You do not have to be a law stu­dent) 
Polldcal Action: PIRG's (Publlc Interest Research Groups) 

Wouldn't it be ideal if your future fell into place just as it was planned on your day of birth? Unfortunately, life is not always that dependable. Preparing for the worst is sometimes more realistic than pessimistic. 
When plan A fails, fall into plan B. This seems to be the rule for successful organizations. According .to Career and Placement Services, it should be the rule for your career. plans. 
Whether you are set on medical school, law school, professional schools, graduate school or working for a particular company, it is always safe to have a plan B. Plan B does not connote failure, but rather a redirec­tion ofone's plans. 
The success rate for Notre Dame students who wish to enter ad­vanced education or interview with certain companies has proved to be quite high. 
In a study completed by the Office of the Dean of Administration, the success rate was approximately 80 percent for 1984 graduates applying to medical schools. 
A rejection could be handled 
easlerforthe20percentthatdidnot
make it, if a plan B could be imple­mented quickly. Unless you have an acceptance letter in your hands, you 
What it can do is strengthen your extra time and effort to draw up al­self-esteem and your resilience to ternatives. Nobody enjoys preparing implement alternatives ifat first you for setbacks or rejections. When all don't succeed. things arc considered, it would be 
nicer to have your future come out Putting all your eggs in one basket "sunny side up" rather than can be dangerous. It does take a little "scrambled." 
-" . ..,:;....i; 
'. 
Volunteer work can be a grea t p1ace t0 start 
Paid Advertisement 

'Time, effort are keys to finding internship 
Summer sings of sun, outdoors internships available in many dif­method. It is essential that you take search. Approximately 80 percent of unturned is a productive attitude to and relaxing times waiting for the ferent areas of study. Some of these advantage of on-campus summer in­jobs found arc through personal take when looking for an oppor­school year to begin. Some students, are not paid internships, but the ex­ternship interviews and contacts contacts. Contacts give you tunity like an internship. however, use their summers as a perience and contacts you gain can with friends, family and professors. knowledge and insight that may help Both Mauro and Howard found way to prepare for the future. A sum­Mail campaigns to your specific tar­in obtaining an interview. Once you the internship experience to be very mer internship is a great way to gain get area and other tactics are also im­get that, you're on your own. insightful and well worth the time experience in your field ofinterest. portant. The tools for finding a summer in­and effort. 
Although it takes time and effort There are directories with listings ternship are similar to those in any Ma•Jro learned how to get to obtain an internship, the payoffii ofsummer internships in the Career job search. You need a resume, appear to be well worth it. There is and Placeme'nt Career Library. For cover letter, location targets, con­no doubt that recruiters are strongly example, "TECS, a Directory ofWas­. tacts and/or mailing lists. The com­influenced by experiences· in the hington, D.C. Internships" and "The mon thread is to begin early. student's area ofinterest. Student Guide to Mass Media Inter­Although Eric Howard, a senior 
According to Ann Mauro, a senior nships" are just two ofthe resources finance major, did not begin his ac­marketing student, her summer in­available. tual summer job search until ternship with General Motors has Mauro's approach was through a Christmas vacation qis junior year, definitely turned the heads of some contact. She had a friend who knew he began thinking about it and col­recruiters. Mauro believes her ex­someone who worked at General lecting information during the perience played a key role in getting Motors. She was able to gain the in­previous summer. her a quick job offer from a major formation she needed to apply to the Gathering your tools is very time­company. summer internship program. consuming. Howard found develop­
There are many different types of Contacts can be vital in a job ing his resume and cover letters to be the most frustrating and difficult task. These usually cannot be done in one sitting -revisions are neces­sary. He obtained most of his help Ann Mauro
Human resource management 
from Career and Placement Services, taking advantage of in­answers on her own, a skill she says dividual counseling and the Career she could not do without. Decisive­
is more than hiring and firing 
library. ness and assertiveness can come in For most summer internships, handy when employer expectationsOne ofthe fastest growing profes­personal skills, it represents an through an internal promotion from 
sional fields is human resource your target area is usually in your run high.
extremely narrow view of what some other functional area within 
management. The Department of human resources is all about. the organization. home town. This is usually because Howard, who interned with U.S. Labor reports that human resource of high living expenses. There are Bancorp in Portland, Ore., said "it
Human resource management is some organizations, however, that not only exposed me to the business
employment-will grow 168 percent no longer just hiring and firing. It is a Mullins states that another reason faster than other professional fields complex set of responsibilities in­provide inexpensive housing for environment, it made me a lot more
human resource management is 
summer interns. Leaving no stone sure that is what I wanted to do."
in the next several years. cluding human resource planning, more difficult to enter today is that 




development and work-force utiliza­much more specific knowledge is tion. Typically, human resources required. There are numerous legal may be thought of as a combination ramifications of human resource of five different types of functions: 
management activities today. AlsoBusiness human resource planning; recruit­complicating the work is the ment, selection and staffing; com­growing diversity in benefits 
Geraef'ic Produds 

pensation and benefits; employee programs. In fact, the increasing 
INC. 

relations; and training and develop­diversity in pensions and other
Human resource management is ment. Depending upon the size of benefits is one of the major reasons
also one of the most popular among the organization, a human resource that human resource as a field is ex­
college graduates, particularly those professional may be a specialist in pected to grow rapidly relative toot­
in general business administration 
one of these areas or have respon­her professions.
programs, the social sciences and sibility for several or all of thesethe humanities. One reason so many functions.
students think the'y want to work in 
For the graduate hoping to enter human resource is that they fre­According to Roger Mullins, human resource, Mullins recom­
quently see it as the only truly Notre Dame's director ofpersonnel, mends considering master's level people-oriented job in business. entering a position in human work in organizational develop­
This perception is, however, mis­resource is becoming more difficult ment, organizational behavior, in­leading. Not only does it ignore the without a pertinent advanced 
dustrial psychology or MBA many other types of business oc­degree. He reports that many in­programs with coursework in cupations that require strong inter­
dividuals now enter the field human resource management. He also says a desire to work with people is only one of many criteria used to screen for human resource positions and, by itself, is not enough to sell a prospective employer on a candidate. 
Extra-curricular activities open doors for many science majors 


Where do science majors with biology majors, 75 percent of earth bachelor degrees find careers? sciences majors, 25 percent of math Surprisingly, industrial manage­majors and 75 percent of physics ment, technical writing, sales, ac­majors go on for advanced training. counting, business, law, computers, Students who attend graduate military service and teaching are school do not necessarily choose some of the fields open to science the same area of study. Although majors. One enterprising 1985 medical school is common for many graduate went to work for a charter science majors, advanced degrees in boat company. business administration and law are 

also possibilities to be considered. 
It is impossible to become a professional tesearch scientist wit­hout an advanced degree. There are,
Science 
however, some companies that. hire students with bachelor degrees for laboratory work. 
gives a student The opportunities exist, it is just a 
transferable skills that can be used to matter of searching out one's niche. enhance any career. Many of these For example, the Career and Place­skills come under the categories of ment Services office reports thin organization, communication and there have been approximately 40 problem-solving. These skills can be to 50 companies that have used in leadership and management expressed interest in students with 
positions, as well as in a team setting. science majors. 
The student who regards the Self-evaluation that includes science degree as one that will en­analysis of one's goals, values and rich his or her whole life will skills is crucial to career ·explora­probably see more career options. tion. This needs to be followed by 
The key is to keep an open-minded investigation into specific oppor­attitude to open all the proverbial tunities. doors. There is no one avenue that will Many science majors go on to give all the answers. Starting early is 
graduate school. According to chair­always a productive suggestion. men of the different science depart­There are many kinds ofcareers that ments, approximately 65 percent of a science major can find through im­
aginative exploration and research. Discovering different interests during the college experience will possibly lead to some answers. 
Balancing one's academic work with an interesting variety of ex­tracurricular activities, community work and summer jobs can open up new and exciting alternatives. Com­bining one's interest and abilities will surely result in a fulfllling career. 
CAREER AND PLACE­MENT SERVICES Memorial Library, Lower Level (219) 239-5200 
Office Hours: 8 a.m. -5 p.m. Monday -Friday 
Kitty Arnold, Director Paul Reynolds, Assistant Director Kate Dascenzo, Assistant Director joan Mcintosh, Career Coun­selor 
Edited by: Kate Dascenzo, Assistant Director 

Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 1 0 -I 1 
2nd effort a strong breath of fresh air 
and strumming guitars give it a 
somewhat regal touch. 
Guitarist Vicki Peterson's voice offers a nice contrast to Hoffs'; it's huskier and conveys more ofa sense ofemotion, which is evident in the melancholy "Return Post." Drummer Debbi Peterson adds her vocals on a few of the tracks, as does bassist Michael Steele. 
Different Light offers a variety of musical styles. There's the nutty King-Tut-on-acid "Walk Like an Egyptian," the brooding "Following," and even a cover of Alex Chilton's excellent pop song, "September Gurls." And ofcourse, there are plenty ofgreat Bangles pop songs, as there should be on a Bangles album. 
The Bangles didn't exactly outdo themselves here, but the album is certainly adequate. To put it in cliche terms, it's like a breath of summer in this dreary, wet South Bend winter. 

albUm is one of '85's best 
beautifully with the warm textures 
and harmonies ofthis album. 
"Hodja" is a traditional, upbeat "doo-wop" melody where Rundgren begs for rhythm so he can dance and spare further ostracism from his spinning and popping peers. "Honest Work" conveys the sad tale ofunion man who has become obsolete in modern society. His voice is power­ful and painful, yet understanding to his situation. 
I know I'm not the only one 'Twas I who did arrange To pay my union dues so I'd Not have to learn or change 
His personal life is examined on the straight forward pop tune "Something to Fall Back On." With a catchy bass line and bright produc­tion, it's hard to tell that he's upset about being used, but his seeing things for what they are is his best medicine. 

TIM ADAMS 
features copy edttor 

T 
his is a strange album. I mean, I 
enjoyed the Bangles' album a lot 
while I was listening to it, but once 
I took it off my turntable, I could 
rt:member only a few faint melodies 
from all I 2 of the songs. Is Different 
Light the aural equivalent ofeating 
Chinese food? I dunno. 

Records 
Different Light 
*** (outollour) 

But I do know that it's good to hear this wonderful female quartet back in action, because their most recent record, 1984's All Over the l'la<:e, whetted my appetite for more of their delicate yet tough sound, a combinaiion of beauty and tht· bt·ast. 
Lyrically, the Bangles have mellowed. No longer does the group sing lyrics like, "James, let­ting me down again." Now it sings songs like "Walking Down Your Street," a Motown-ish ditty with relatively pedestrian lyrics: 
I'm gomw walk right down your 
street 

With a lo11e that I can't hide 
l't'e got one thing on my mind 
I'll even sacrifice mypride 
·cause I wantyou 
I'm ranking on this because it is one of the few weak points about Different Light. For the most part, this record highlights well-crafted, original pop songs sung by some of the best female voices in rock. 
Susanna Hoffs, the primary singer, can make one melt with her charm­ing, pint-sized voice, and she does just that in the Prince-penned single, "Manic Monday." This song features a straight 4/4 beat, but the added touches ofVictorian piano 
Unconventional 
GERRY SCIMECA 
feaatures u..-iter 

I 
t's a little ironic that one ofthe 
most thoughtful and sensitive 
albums to emerge from 198'5 would 
bt· one that so thoroughly relies on 
high-tech studio polish, but being 
conventional is something Todd 
Rundgren goes out of his way not to 
be. 

Records 
A Cappella 
***j (out of four) 

A Cappella is especially ambitious because there is no other instru­mt·nt on this record other than his own quirky voice; either har­monized up to 40 times into a little Rundgren Choir, or electronically manipulated to sound like the usual assortment ofband instruments. 
Despite the high-tech gimmick­cry, the songs and words are the real strength of this record and can more than stand by themselves. They arc as musically varied as the career of writer-singer-producer­musician-engineer-closet eccentric Todd Rundgren himself. They remain related by the tone ofsin-
There is no other instru­ment on this record other than his own quirky voice ... 
cere passion which underlies every emotional situation. 
Warmly textured with inspiring weaves of harmony, his voice really shines from within his pleading heart. His affections are weak, but his calm understanding settles in 
Well deserving album steps into spot light 
DON SEYMOUR 
features writer 

ow that "Perfect Way" has 
N danced its way up the charts, meet Scritti Politti, the latest in a string of British synth-dance bands to riddle our airwaves. 
'!be album Cupid & Psyche 8S has been out for quite awhile, but only now on the heels of"Perfect Way," is it receiving any popular, commcrdal attention. 

Records 
Cupid &Psyche

\
~.· \_ 85 
~ \' ****(C•UI'" ..-ur) 
Melody is key for this group ­melody and a strong bass line drive their lively pop songs. Ofcourse, synths provide the bulk of the music, which is okay-I have not­hing against synths, backed up by guitar and acoustic piano for tlavor. The songs allure from the 80s­British-pop-reggae of"Word Girl" to the eccentricity of"Wood Beez." 
An integral part ofScritti Politti's sound is lead singer Green's natural alto, if not soprano. That's right, his name is Green (apparently a British trend as illustrated by Sting, Bono, Morrissey, etc.). 
He is the lead singer and prin­cipal songwriter for the band, though he is joined in the produc­tion of the album by keyboardist David Gamson and drummer Fred Maher. The three are also joined by a large group ofstudio musicians including Ebn, half of the New York duo Ebn-Ozn responsible for "AEIOU Sometimes Y," who handles most of the Fairlight programming. 
This is a great album. The songs don't come across as stale or overly­calculated, as Go West does. High­lighting the album is "The Word Girl (Flesh and Blood)," a top ten record in Britian, that takes its form from 'HOs British reggae, though its flesh is pure pop. 
Another curiosity is "Wood Beez (Pray Like Aretha Franklin)," a dance club hit in Britian in the winter of'84-'85 and now the follow-up single to "Perfect Way." "Wood Beez" brings up the band's interesting lyrics. 
There's nothing I wouldn't take oh even intravenous There's nothing I wouldn't take to get to be approved There's nothing I wouldn't be oh that's the gift ofschizo There's nothing that's new to me I've seen it all before now sugar 
Not your typical Lionel Richie/Go West fare. 
Green commands respect be­cause the guy uses words like her­meneutic, as he does in "Lover to Fall," regularly. The lyrics create a bit ofintrigue about these songs that are already rhythmically and 

..
melodically interesting. 
Those who like "Perfect Way," who like pop music in general or who like to b ~ adventurous should check out Cupid & Psyche 85. 
The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986-page 12 
Sports Briefs 
The ND wrestling team will travel to East Lansing, Mich., tonight for a meet with Michigan State University. The meet is scheduled to begin at 7:30p.m. -The Observer 
The ND men's swimming tea~ will play 
host to Bradley University today at 4 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic 
Center.-The Observer 

The ND field hockey team will hold a meeting 
today at 5:30p.m. in the Football Auditorium ofthe ACC. All mem­bers of the 1985 team and any new prospects should attend. Mem­bers also are reminded to come dressed to participate. For more information call Head Coach Jill Lindenfeld at 239-6281. -The Ob­
server 

Mandatory Bengal Bout physicals for all who plan to participate this spring will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the varsity training room at the ACC. Those who boxed in this year's Novice Tournament and previous Bengal Bout competition must also attend tonight. -The Observer 
Moonlight cross country skiing will be of­
fered by the NVA tonight from 7 p.m.-10 p.m. on the Burke Memorial Golf Course. Anyone interested may rent skis at a cost of J1 at the· Rockne Golf Shop. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
A SMC softball clinic, directed by SMC head coach Scott Beisel and several other local coaches, will be held Saturday at the Angela Athletic Facility. The four 90-minute sessions of the day will focus on pitching, basic fundamentals, defense, and hitting and bunting techniques. Anyone interested may register on Saturday from 8-8:30a.m. The first session will begin at 9 a.m. For registration fees and more information call the Angela Athletic Facility at 284­5548. -The Observer 
A campus tug-of-war contest is being or­ganized by the Nij Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to assemble teams. For more information call Kevin Lennon at 239­
6440. -The Observer 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVA for ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVAat 239-5100. -The Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more information call NVA.-The Obser­ver 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shirt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office in the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -Tbe Observer 
Celtics win in 13th straight NBA victory 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -Larry Bird scored 26 
points and Robert Parish 25 as the 
Boston Celtics rallied from a slug­
gish start to post their 13th con­
secutive NBA victoty, a 103-88 
decision last night over the Was­
hington Bullets. 

Scott Wedman, filling in for the 
injured Kevin McHale, contributed 
15 points and veteran Bill Walton 
added 13 as the Celtics extended 
their longest winning streak since 
they won 1B in a row in February 
and March, 1982. 

The Bullets, who have lost four in 
a row, were led by Jeff Malone with 
21 points and Cliff Robinson with 
15. 

With their 22nd victory in 23 home games, the Celtics improved the NBA's best record at the All-Star break to 38-8, the same mark they had after 46 games last season when they topped the league with 63 tri­umphs. 
Walton, a backup to Parish at center as well as at forward, also had 1 7 rebounds, one blocked shot, three assists and one steal as the Cel­tics whipped the Bullets for the fourth time this season. 
lht.• fJh.<it•rl't•r '<•tn: I>Jmt· tltfitc.: lt•tJtn.l tHl lht.: th•nt fl,,,,r t•IIJI,,rlllllt' 'tudt:nt < cntt·r Jt.tl'pl..,tiJ'''tit·d Jthl·rt•... lllg lrt~m 1J J m until f p 111 \1t•rH.JJ\ through I ru.JJ\ I bet Jh.•w,Ter '-Hill \1Jn ' 1 •ffic..t· lut Jlt·d c10 Ihe.: thard fl," •r 1 1f IIJ~~Jr ( ulle~e I l'llll'r J< <·:pt' 'IJ"rtinl' lrorll 1.! ~~~ p m unrrl ~ p 111 \lun dJ\ thuu~h I rrdJ\ IkJdlr'lt' fur JK" dJ\ 'IJ"rtiul' '' ~ p m \II <IJ"rtinh mu't he pn·pJtd l'lt ht:r 111 pc.:r,un nr IH 111Jd ( hJr).:c.: '' I U lt'llh pc.:r II\ t' l hJrJl.
Classifieds 
lt'f' l'f dJ\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
·$;·~$360'w~k~ii:i~·M;.;·,;;;g Circulars' No quotas! 
Sincerely interested rush sell-addressed envelope: Succeaa. POBox 470CDD. WoodStod<. IL 60098. 
TYPING CALL CHillS 234-8817. 
TYPING -Pick-up & delivery on campus. WIU check spelling. Quality guaranteed by a proteaaional. SUSAN -287-9257 
LOST/FOUND 
I am irate! This ialhe third time in a week that !he honest people of Notre Dame have helped my belongings disappear. It you walked oft with tha red Kangol cap t left in 114 O'Shag. pi-call meat3564. It was a Christmaa present and I'm pretty fond of it. Please show some decency and reaffirm my faith in !he Christianity of !his tld1ool. 
STOLEN : My black book bag waa taken from !he South Dining Hall S during Thu..-day'alunch ( 1130). I saw the penon who acted as It he was refiling !he paper In the copying machine. and am sure I will be able to identify his picture in !he AD­MINISTRATION FILES. So if your the guy who thought hi,. CRIME was perfect; THINK AGAIN and come to your senaea. Return !he bag to ita lut poeition nMr !he copier or 10on pay the COMeQUences. 
LOST: '87 N.D. CLASS RING; IN FRONT OF S. DINING HALL. 1130/86: CALL STEVE AT 3062: REWARD!!! 
LOST: Laat Tueadaay I 1oet a !hick gold chein bracelet. It was a graduation gift. please call Lisa -3098 if you have any in­formation. 
LOST: Baaketbal tickets; Probably 1oet in South Dining on Saturday Feb. 1. The ticket ia Section 6; Row 9; Seat 15. PI­calf Chip at 2704 with any information. 
LOIT OLIVE GREEN JACKET Miatak­ingty taken from Senior Bar Coat Rake Saturday Night. January 25. GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. REWARD, NO QUESTIONS ASKED. Call Tim 2004.417 Stanford Hal. 
L.oet: A pair of prescription eyegtaMes in a case with a picture of a kitten on the case. It waa !oat Saturday night between Walsh andZahm. Calf Nicole 26n. 
LOST: silver TIMEX watch. Lost around Senior Bar or Campus View on Feb. 1. Reward if found. Call Pat at 3165. 
LOST: A thick, chain-linked gold bracelet with a large clasp. It wasloet Friday, Jan. 17th. It has incredible sentimental value and cannot be replaced. If you have any information and can identify it. please call Karen at 1884. Thank you. 
LOST AT MARQUETTE GAME SATURDAY-Pisces key chain with about a dozen keys on it. Unless you're from NJ, you can't use them, but I can. Cash or services as r-ard... calf x4021 
LOST/STOLEN Black Navy P-COAT at 
SENIOR BAR Thura.30 JAN To 
return.contact ANDY at 2990.1'm freez­
ing! 
FOUND: Notes tor Managerial Econ. in Room 220 O'Shaughnessy. Call John Boulot4125. 
FOUND: A Maryland driver's license. Y ou·re 21 and you have to be thirsty by now. Calf Lou at t3n to claim. P.S. A reward would be nice too. 
HELP 
Loet-calculator in 120 Cushing Tues Feb. 4 at 4:00pm. Was left under desk with 2 manuals. It ia an HP 37E. If found please cal Cert at 234-2275. 
REWARD OFFERED. I loet my gtusea a week ago. It was probably In Cushing. O'Shag. or Washington Hall. If you have fouhd !hem please give me a call at 3046. Thanks, Blinder-than-a-bat. 
LOST: Umbrella with long, light colored wood handle and dark green cotton fabric. Loet around the time of Thanksgiving. It ia of great sentimental value plus it keeps me dry and I have a cold. Pleaae call Steve K. at 1786 or place w/ Loet and Found. 
LOST: UGHT·IILUE JACKET WITH RED-PLAID INTERIOR AT BfiDOET'I TUESDAY tiGHT. IIIALL AQUA & PLAID SCARF WAS WITH JACKET, ALSOLOST. JACKET WAS NEW AND I NEED IT TO SURVIVE THE WINTER. SCARF BELONGS TO A FRIEND OF IIIINE. PLEASE CALL AT 3451 IF YOU HAVETHEIII. 
WANTED 
Need ride to PENN STATE 2/13-16 Call Corinne 1292 
OVEIISEAI J088•.8ummer, yr.round. Europe, I.A-., Auatnlla, Aela. All Heide. $100-2000 mo. lftht-'ng. F,_ Info. Wrtta IJC, PO Bx 52-1111-4, CorOIIII dal II.-, CA 121125. 
WANTED: Exercycle with flywheel. All parts must be working because all my pans need working. If you have one that you're not using and d it'a doing is col­lecting dual. why don't you give me a call. Call Shirley at 239-5303 before 4 p.m. or 272-3753 alter 6 p.m. ' We have found in the past that college students and graduates excel in our in· dustry because they are ambitious and goal oriented. National recreation­company is looking tor a few good people to staff our 1986 saies line. High income potential-excellent opportunity for ad­vancement. Call Mr. Stevenson at 616­695-3873. 

Two Beautiful girls in a Lincoln Town Car· looking for RIDERS to the Fl. Lauderdale area over Spring Break CaN Jean 284­4379 
FOR SALE 
for sale-beautiful condo in Somers Square East. $79.900 Call Tina Mark 674­6678. 
TICKETS 
Two blondes mistakenly got Friday night Keenan Review ticketa, although they for­got they already had plana for that evening! They are looking for two people who wouldn't mind trading them two Saturday's lor two Friday's. It would be deeplyappteciated. Tocontactlhesetwo, call either SMC-4419. or SMC 4429. 
FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE BEER FREE ia great, but I need 2 G.A.'a for !he DePaul B-Ball game,on Feb. 25 PI­call Jackie 2126 if you have tickets for sale 
-BEST DEAL··· KEENAN REVEIW TIX Will trade 4 Fri. tix for 2 Sat. We want to go to our last NO Tri-Mif Ball. Call Art & Denise at 239-511 or 283-3139. 
Need to trade 1 Keenan tic. tor Fri. for 1 Sat. call John x-2487 
PERSONALS 
We wonder aometimea if ever we can know our closest friend. what she thinks and lee/8 in her heart. And tflen we find she ·a written her heart to a secret paper, clear as a mountain spring. 
• Richard Bach, Tha Brtdga Acrou Forav• 
A healthy child ia somehow very much like God. A hurting child, his son. 
-Calvin Miller, ThaSingar 
P.B.­You never told me what you wanted me to make for dinner ... remember. we have to eat something before dessert. 
1.8. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & UQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.lll. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
"Wa can llleka You 1..8ugh" comedy show Febuary 8, 8:00 pm Washington Hall. $2 
Loving catholic couple -nta to adopt an Infant. It you know of anyone who Ia conaldarfng placing a child lew adop­tion, p..... call collect (217) 367-33711 alter7p.m. 
DAVE FLANAGAN FORUIIIOC 
THAT'S WHAT FRIENDS ARE FOR 
COUNSELINE VOLUNTEERS 
NEEDED!!!! Students needed to staff the information tape service of counaeline & Psych Services on Friday Evenings for 2 hour blocks. Times are 4-12 pm. If interested, call Mary(239-5485) 
RAMBEAR UVESfll 
Hungry? Call YELlOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
The 14th Ia not ler a-y, and axcftmant Ia juat around tha corner lor aoma lucky man 111-Dt 
lnt.-tacl In tutoring a South lland ~hoof or hlgh-achool atudant? Neighborhood Study Help Program has many spots in a number of schools and centers. Calllllar1ha -"""'at3864. 
Happy 111th Blrthdlry to our prfcla and joy, our daughter Danfaa. A very ap• clal dlry lor a very apaclal gal. Allourlova, Mom and Dad 
Oh hll Happy 111th Birthday Danlaa. WUIIIMt Tublllt Bulllllt Dublllt. Oh byal Love, Kay. 
To The ..Morally Responsible" Guys That Helped Us Out Fri. Night. Thanks! We Couldn'T Have Made It Without You. Mary Jane & Donna 
SWE 'Women in Engine«ing: From Cot­lege to Career" Feb 15 9:()()-12:45 pm with luncheon following/ $2 Reservations duebyFeb7. 
WANTED: An excuse not to go to Purdue this Friday night. Some ROTC guy there wants me to so to a dance with him. but I want a better offer. Preferably NAVY? Call me. you! Can't you see it's you I want? 
Need Riders to Dubuque, Ia. Leaving 2-7 Returning 2-9. Ann 1283 
Rock -n-Roll 
with THE LAW at DUFFY'S TAVERN Fri & Sat Night Be there. It's the Law. 
KEENAN REVUE OPENING NIGHT t'ebruary 6 O'Laughlin Auditorium SMC S~owtime 7:30pm. Doors Open 7:00pm 
Thank you St. Jude -EM 
Thank you St. Jude for watchrng over me and my family. -PAG 
John Buralbach Will be 20 this Friday. No kidding. honest. So now all you wrts can drop by 1 06 Drllon and wish him a happy birthday in any way you desire. And don't forget his roommate who turns 21 on Saturday. tie needs love too!! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
Feb. 8 stana at 8 with the Overture for Mikey and ends only when he surrenders or Bartl lets it end. 
Danca Danca Danca Danca Dance Danca To the Bend LAKE EFFECT at Alumni-Senior Club SATURDAY NIGHT 1:30p.m.-1:30p.m. ALL WELCOIIIEflflflflfll NO fD NEEDEDfll DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCEflll 
To the BURGER CONNOISSEUR: Ia ROTC BURGER as good aa SOCCER BURGER or is that another dis­advantage? You also alated the obvious in the ice rink yesterday. I'll have you for that. 
FERDINAND, My father has gone to the other aide of the island.Your move MIRANDA D. MS VALENTINES DANCE Friday Feb. 14 8:3D-1pm Stepan Center Dancing-Prizes­Food Bring your favorite valentine! 
I want to have an exciting Valentine's Day-information please-BM 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, WALIHYI (When are we going to New York??) 
The greatest lhing in life, almoet as 
good as sex. but a helluva lot longer las­
ting -is friendahip! Friendships -Jesus. 
what would we do without them? 
Do we take them where we find !hem? 
Or do we throw them back? 
Tha London Club 
Let the lecture aeries begin! 
Lecture 1: 
Transatlantic Postal Rates and You 
Location and time to be announced at a 
later date if at all. Contact Art Trada 
Dropouts for further information. 
I'm going to tear !he stuffing out of Ram­bear. 
Rambear: DEAD. 
I'm going lo rip Rambear's head off . 
and then eat it. 
YOUR DAYS ARE LIMITED RAMBEAR. .. YOU ARE ONE DEAD BEAR ... AND I MEAN IT. 
Kaanan Ravua Ticket I have one for tonight, but I want one for tomorrow night. Want to trade? Cal Mary Elen at 283-3855 or leave message at 239-5303. 

NOTRE DAME'S FABULOUS TWO MILE RELAY TEAM 
JOHN MCNELIS RO.NOBLES JEFF VANWIE JIM TYLER 

Good luck qualifying for NCAA !his weekend' You know you can do it so go ahead' (Remember. McNelis. thoee 2 seconds come off YOUR trme or I get out the stick') 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Presents ..A Rose and a love Song.. SINGING VALENTINES Delivered Thu..-day, Feb. 13 In person -$5 By phone-$3 Order yours in the Dining Halls At Lunch Sunday lhru Wednesday 
Need 2 tickets for Keenan Review call D.6010 
YEA BUDDY! Matt Grat. I wish you all the best in the KEENAN REVUE lhrs year. I'm sure you'll be very punny. Break a leg or arm or a traditron or Somethrng. Anythrng. Your friend. SEAN. 
Dear Beth (Cuddles). Dumpling and I (Katinka) just want to say hello to you. Hope you are having fun. 
Cheerio. 
J.R.A C.M.L. 
ANN, WILL WE EVER SOLVE THE UNIFIED FIELD THEORY? -DAVID 
To the guys on first floor Keenan: GOOD LUCK this weekend' Hopefully I won't land you a $25 fine' I LOVE YOU GUYS! 
..Kathleen.. 

KEENAN REVIEW PARTY This wild event will take place after the show on Friday. Feb 7, in !he pat1or at 
Heggar College SMC Refreshments and a OJ All Welcome 
Di, I've been waiting for a woman like you All my life Where can I meet you ?-Man 
PETER HARTWEGER: Goodluck in the Keenan Review tonight! Love. Kathi 
It's Coming!! It's Coming! SMC Sophomore Sweetheart Swirl!! Feb. 14th 9-1am It's Coming!! It's Coming!! 

McCandless RA'S---If you think !hat I'm just going to appreciate you on RA ap­preciation day--You're CRAZY!!! I ap­preciate you every day!! Happy Thursday!! -N-P.S. I couldn't think up a sniglet to describe how special all of you are--Don't you hate it when that hap­pens??? 
Happy Birthday Sunshine! Love KSA 
Someday. Somewhere A place. for us Peace & Ouret & Open Air Hold my hand I'II take you there 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY MARK MORAN Love. Sis 
-----------~---~­
The Observer 
Miller fired as Buckeye head coach pointing to a misdirected program 
AMoclated Pre!IS 
COLUMBUS, Ohio· Eldon Miller, fired as head basketball coach at Ohio State, said Tuesday that he was not bitter and believed his departure was In the best interests of the players and the schooL 
Miller, the Buckeye coach for the pa.~t I 0 years, wa.~ fired Monday, ef· fective at the end of the current season, by OSLJ Athletic Director Rick Bay. 
Speaking at a press conference prior to the start of practice, Miller said, "I felt the program was not where it should be, and Rick Bay agreed. We were in agreement on that and thought a change in leader­ship was necessary for the program to improve. So we made the change. lie tired me, and I accepted the fact that he fired me." 
Miller said he decided to confront Bay about his future in mid-season rather than be judged by the team's performance in its final games. 
"I've been coaching 24 years and have had 21 winning seasons, and I nec·•l nim· games in which 11 kids 
Dayton 
continuedfrom page 20 
the hall inside to Botham, who went 
up among two defenders and had 
her shot blocked. Kruty came away 
with it, and her points from the 
charity stripe put the game out of 
reach. 
"With their height, it's intimidat· ing in there," Botham said. "They're a tough team. Now we're going to have to hear down and start playing hard. We're going to really have to 
t.Y..,. ~(](')JOt\ 
•oo..u 11 -vw 
~!(llliNOt'\il 
Oolle<erct ,,.. Oolle<erct ~ !Wft<liiDoviNO 
0"9 ill'lO'mal . .C!~ ~·· <I ee.no "" ""''*' lflt'\0' ~ 11.11/e • !jOO(J 0-:.ea<.e c~ llemOIJI'olld. wnocn \<mOlY means 111.1r tneot IJIOOO C¥Y'OI ClOt b'lot\001 !npy pr..,~, leO 
• Pit!!'; \tlO!teft'O ~·· lle(Jull! ,,... (().Jid OIPt'O 10 Olliltn from • monor .-.urv loaav 1nov can Ot' treltt'O wotn • cl0tt"'9 f..: tor 111.11 rneor own I:XlOit'\ oo not prC4J<t 
And that clOtting factor ts taken from the plaSma you donate. 
How much plasma 
IS needed? A10t Fo' exi111101f. one ..,.,, 01 ~ v«<S ~ rn.Jn • tN'oPOO'lful 01 tne C10U"'9 f~tor nemopnoloil(\ neeo. 10 vou can 1ft t,.. neEO for 1¥111! ~OIDI.wna Jult for reo-o­IJI"loUC\ NWJ!~Oftn!SOI~areul>t'O 
on l'oOIOtats illld erne<gencv room\ Pve<V G.Jv to lolllf 11\olnV klle'l 
have to play well in order to con­vince somebody that I can coach basketbaJI?" he asked. "Does that seem ludicrous to you? It seems ludicrous to me." 
Miller said he was hamstrung throughout his tenure by the Ohio State policy of offering one-year coaching contracts. 
"How many years do you think in modern day basketball you're going to survive at Ohio State with one­year contracts?" he said. "Ten isn't a bad number. This is the longest I've ever worked any place. Now, tho ot· her places I've been, I was a little more ofa hero when I left ..." 
The Buckeyes are l 0-9 this season and 4-5 in the Big Ten Conference with nine games remaining. Miller, with a career mark of 167-1 13 at Ohio State, came under fire from fans and media after a loss Thursday at Minnesota, which was playing with only five scholarship players after losing three to a sexual assault scandal and two others to suspen· sions. 
Miller said the program needed improvement in three areas: the end 
start working." 
Botham finished the game with 14 points, while 6-4 freshman Heidi Bunek chipped in 10. The Irish were unable to free Keys down the stretch as Dayton applied some pressure, and DiStanislao saw the game slip away from her squad, which also holds a 5-1 record in the conference. 
DiStanislao was not worried about Keys' record during the game, but offered nothing but praise for the senior after it was aU said and done. 
"That kind of thing takes care of itself," she said. "She's a consistent performer, and over her four years 
CashForYour donation 
WORLDWIDE DEMAND FOR PLASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation is important, so important that we'll pay $7.00 for your . first donation and $9.00 if you donate a ~Acond time within tht~ same 
....... calendar week. In addition, if you meet tb"' physical requirements you'll be given a FREE physical and $60.. 00 ~v~:h of FREE Lob Tests. 
Open. TUES., WED., THURS., FRI., 9.00-5.00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
51 o Lincolnway West, South Bend 
Bring in this ad for a s4Bonus
New Donors ft . d • 
p er your 11rst onat1on. 
Your plasma makes adifference. 
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
-.no o\ ,,.. loQuoO on wnocn !jOO(J cellS arP •••ns 
POIIt'O AWOXom.l!PIV hall OIIJIOOO 1\ ~ Tne 
t11000 CPII<, .liP lfl)a<att'O rrom vour ~at ,,.. 
aonor cente< b'l a process ca11e0 ~11'>11 ana 
returnoo to vour DOOv 
Tfl(' 01.wna taken rrorn 
vour !jOO(J o\ aoour 
9:111 mone< a!\ ana ware<. 
rTli:XC of cnerf.II'TlalflOef IS prmt'IO\ 11 o\ rf'<!le pro· 
•eons rll.lt ar• ul>t'O to 
of one-year contracts, an improve­ment in facilities and more and bet­ter marketing of the university and its basketball program. 
He blamed the insecurity of one­year contracts for difficulty in com­peting for blue-chip recruits. 
"Anyone who doesn't understand that has got to be blind," he said. "When you want the program to be the very best, you want absolutely nothing that speaks ofany weakness. But when you have a kid sit in your office and say, 'I like you. Are you going to be here next year?' then what is your contract worth?" 
Miller said he had not discounted remaining in coaching after the Ohio State season ends. 
"I've never spent a whole lot of time worrying about what some­body else thought ofme. And I'm not spending a lot of time (worrying) now," he said. "I've got a couple of job offers right now ... none are in coaching. I'm not interested in a job right now. We've got a damned tough job coming up Thursday night (against Northwestern)." 
she has a!ways found a way to get her 
baskets. 
"She's part of a team where she carries a load and we look for her to take control. That's what she's done. She goes into every game with a plan." 
DiStanislao remains confident in her team's chances for success as the Irish head into the final nine games on the schedule with a 12-7 mark. 
"The question right now for us is our own play," she said. "People are only capable of beating us if we let them." 
Thursday, Ft:hruary 6. i 986 -page 13 


Ohio State University basketball coach Eldon Miller coaches player Brad Sellers at the free throw line Monday in St. fohn's Arena. Miller agreed to step down as coach oftheBuckeyes effective the end ofthe season. Story at left. 
year. But I think the 5-6 record is really going to hurt them.

Draft 
"I've heard rumors that Allen

continuedfrom page 20 
Pinkett could go anywhere from the third to the fifth round. I think he's a 

ball field hasn't been any help to seniors with hopes of going high in the draft. 
"I think the poor record of the team hurts players in the draft, and that's especially true for this year," Kelley says. "There's some really good players like Allen Pinkett, and Eric Dorsey who had a real good 
MID • EASTERN VEGETARIAN 
FOODS

•· lfeplanM .t ~at Di.lwe SHAWBattA. MUGBDERA · BABA GHENOliJ 
HOM MUS· FELAFEL TEBBOl/1..1 Sfl/.AD 
• LEBANESE STYLI:
H BEND
SOUT . GYROS 
• Pit• Sfl4fed SGM""mu . 
• D~lifhtful Pa•tn•• • Turlcuh Coffr• 
288-5639
Tuo• · Sat 5:30PM · 9:30PM 
cot'...':f.r~fff~~t'Z~~~r 838 Portage 


107.Discount for ND/SMC Students 
With this Coupon 
CompuServe 
Informational Open House 

Morriss Inn, Notre Dame Room 8:00pm to 10:00 pm Monday, February 10, 1986 Undergraduate degrees in CAPP, MIS, Marketing, Computer Science, and Engineering MBA'S All other interested students are welcomed 
heck of a back and he should be up 
there higher. But when a scout looks 
at a team that's 5-6 he says, 'Hey 
maybe these guys didn't want to 
play. Maybe they just went through 
the motions." 
While the attitude of the scouts 
may not have changed yet, it's tough 
for anyone to overlook the success 
that many Notre Dame products are 
currently having in the NFL. 
"It's weird," says Kelley. "I've had 
coaches come up to me in different 
places and say, 'You Notre Dame 
guys are so good in the pros. Why 
didn't you have good seasons in col· 
lege?' I just say, 'I don't know.' I can't 
really explain it. 
"But I think a lot of Notre Dame guys do well in the pros because they enjoy playing the game, and they put 100 percent toward what they have to do to play that game. They just concentrate on football that's what's important. At Notre Dame they had both studying and football. And when that stereotype hits them in the pros they just try to prove to their coaches that it's not true. They go out and do what they · like to do, have fun, and keep 
working." 
AU three of those are in Kelley's 
career plans, arid it's a formula 
which should lead to success, and 
maybe even an end to the 
stereotype. 
Women'• Reeulta 
Dayton 61, Notre Dame 58 
Dayton(61) 
M FG-A FT-A. R F P Dickerson 38 2·9 2·2 10 3 6 Kruty 30 9·14 5-7 7 2 23 O'Brien 25 4-12 o-o 2 4 8 Byers 370-3Q-0110 Serra 40 3-4 Q-1 2 1 6 West 53-50-()206 Brown 5 0·0 0·0000 Pleasant 1 1-1 0·0 0 0 2 Yingling 19 4-6 2·2 9 3 10 200 26-54 9-12 33 14 61 
FG Pet. .481. FT Pet. • .750. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers • 24. Assists • 17 (Kruty 5). Technicals • 0 . 
Notre Dame (58) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Keys 35 10·22 0·0 5 4 20 Willis 17 1-4 0·0 3 5 2 Both am 30 5-12 4-5 6 3 14 Gavin 34 2-3 0·0 1 3 4 Ebben 29 2-4 0-0224 Toney 22 1-4 0-0 4 0 2 Bunek 28 5-6 0·1 5 1 10 Morrison 5 0-0 2·2 1 0 2 
200 26-55 6-8 27 18 58 
FG Pet. .473. FT Pet. • .750. Team rebounds • 0. Turnovers • 23. Assists • 14 (Gavin 5). Technicais • 0. 
Halftime-Notre Dame 36, Dayton 33. Offi· cials-Joe Bentz, John Thomas,. A· 482. 

The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986-page 14 
MSU player Skiles will seek efforts to continue talks to avoid jail term 
Asllodated Press 

Scruggs said he talked Tuesday misdemeanor charge of possession 
with Prosecutor Fred R. Jones in ofmarijuana. PLYMOUTH, Ind. ·An attorney for 
another attempt to negotiate a Prosecutors filed to revoke proba·Michigan State basketball star Scott 
settlement before the hearing. tion after Skiles was arrested Nov. 7 Skiles said yesterday he will con­
"I think we made some progress, in Michigan on a drunken drivingtinue negotiations with prosecutors 
but no·, we didn't.get it resolved. charge. Skiles has pleaded innocent in an effort to avoid a possible jail 
We're still talking," Scruggs said in a to the charge. term for the Big Ten player of the 
telephone interviewfrom his office. In Sept. 1984, Marshall Countyweek. 
Scruggs and Jones had met authorities charged Skiles, 21, with Marshall Circuit CourtJudge Mic· 
privately last Friday and plan to talk felony possession ofcocaine and the hael D. Cook earlier yesterday 
again today, Scruggs said. He marijuana charge after police dis­rejected without comment Skiles' declined to discuss the details of covered the substances in his car. 
motion to dismiss a prosecution ef­their conversations. The cocaine charg«: was dropped in fort to revoke his probation on a Cook also rejected motions filed exchange for his guilty plea to the drug conviction. 
by Skiles' attorney asking to delay misdemeanor. The ruling clears the way for a 
the proceedings and appealing the Skiles was named Big Ten playerFeb. 21 court hearing at which 
judge's earlier refusal to step aside of the week after scoring 36 points prosecutors will attempt to show 
and allow a new judge to hear the in the Spartans' 83-81 victory over Skiles violated probation by drink· 
evidence. Wisconsin and 29 points in a 97-69 ing and driving. · 
Skiles was not present when the victory over Northwestern last If the judge agrees, the 6-foot-1 
motions were argued last Friday or week. It was the second consecutive senior guard could be ordered to 
when the judge's rulings were en­week Skiles has won the honor. serve a one-year jail ternt. 
tered. Skiles is averaging 27 points per"It will be heartl then unless the Skiles' one-year probationary game for Michigan State, 14-5. In prosecutor and I reach an agree· period, and a one-year suspended 1982, he led Plymouth to the In­ment of some kind," said Skiles' at­jail term, were imposed by Cook last diana boys high school basketball torney, Charles Scruggs of Kokomo. April after Skiles pleaded guilty to a championship. 
Women's IH basketball starts now' 
Box Score 
Men'a Reaulta Dayton 67, Notre Dame 65 
Notre Dame (65) M FG-A FT·A R F p D1yton(6nBartow 15 1-5 2·2 2 3 4 
M FG-A FT·A R F p Royal 37 3-5 5-8 6 2 11 Young 37 10·15 
0·0 7 3 20 
Kempton 16 0·2 0·0 2 2 0 
Grant 36 5·9 0-0 5 3 10 Steven· Colbert 40 
2·8 4-5 7 3 8 son 35 11-15 1-1 3 0 23 Goodwin 40 7-8 2·2 3 4 
16
Rivers 37 5-16 5-6 3 1 15 Knight 23 2-5 7·8 2 2 11 
Dolan 29 3·5 0·0 6 2 6 Christie 18 1·2 o-o 3 3 2Connor 15 2-4 0·0 1 1 4 Crotty 3 
0·1 0·0 0 0 0Hicks 7 1·2 0·0 0 4 2 Smith 3 0·0 0·0 0 0 0 Price 1 0·0 o-o 0 0 
200 27-48 13-15 27 18 67 Voce 3 0·1 o-o 1 0 FG Pet. • .563. FT Pet. -.867. Team Beeuw· rebounds· 2. Turnovers· 12. Assists. 17 saert 5 0·0 0·0 0 (Colbert 4). Technicals-none. 
200 26-55 13-17 25 18 65 Halftime· Dayton 37, Notre Dame 34. FG Pet. • .473. FT Pet. • .765. Team Officials • Dave Parry, Dick Bestor rebounds· 1. Turnovers· 9. Assists· 13, George Demos (all MAC). A· 13,233. (Rivers 3). Technicals ·none. 
The Boss with th$ Sauce 
proudly presents yet ahother 
~,c~e'" LEE's·I . ~~So
e:,()9 IJilc~. ~-·~~ 
BLOWOUT 
Thursday, February6 8:00-close 

with walsh over Pasquerilla East 
*-G-oo_dF_o_od_,G_o_od_D_ri_nk_,G_o_od_T;_im_es_ 
By K.AmLEEN McKERNAN tain Claire Welsh. was not as close as the score would Sports Writer Although the score was tied at the suggest. Breen-Phillips dominated end of the third quarter, Walsh Badin. At the end ofthe first quarter 
In women's interhall basketball pulled away at the beginning of the BP led 19-3: When BP put in the last Sunday, the season finally started fourth quarter thanks to standout second string in the second quarter, with Walsh beating Pasquerilla East play by Patty Mileski and Mary Badin was able to cut the lead to 24­40-30, Breen-Phillips defeating Langer. 19 at the half. Badin 47-41, Lewis "A" winning "They (Mileski and Langer) did a Dava Newman and Ann Curoe led over Pasquerilla West, and Farley good job on the boards," said Welsh. BP's attack. "They were the two out­"A" dominating Lyons. Farley "B" Langer, the six-foot center, hit standing players," said BP's captain forfeited to Walsh "B." The schedule two big baskets early in the fourth Carol Cavaliere. had been plagued with team forfeits quarter to put Walsh ahead for good. Point guard Newman hit from 
\)
and withdrawals until then. Forward Mileski played solid outside and passed in to 5-11 for· In the Walsh-PE game, the teams defense on her way to winning the ward Curoe to preserve the win. BP 
\)
alternated leads for the first three team MVP award for the game. is now 2·1, while Badin evened its quarters of a close game. Freshman With the win, Walsh raised its record to 1-1 with the loss. \)guard Colleen O'Connor paced PE record to 2·1 while PE dropped to PW remains winless in two at· 
The King Says,

in the third quarter, with a hot hand 1-2. tempts by losing to Lewis "A," while \) Roses are Red, from outside. "O'Connor was just The BP:Jladin contest ended with Lewis "A" and Farley "A" both hold a 
Violets are Blue, 

hitting everything," said Walsh cap· a six point difference, but the game 2·1 mark. Lyons dropped to 1·2. 
Break out of your shell 
(]~11~'4
Be daring and enjoy as little or as much as you like from the Wharfs star-studded menu. It's a new way to dine that lets you select a little or a lot of all your favorites. 

Holy Cross Fathers 
Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
Howdolknow if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
W.at is the academic and formation program for becoming a priest? 
'Wmt scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
What are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
How do I pray 
if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood 
and I'm not sure? 
Forpersonal, confidential intervie.., ..,ith no obligation, please ..,"rite or call a vocation directorBox 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 
Forappointment, call1Jelu1een 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6358 

\) 
King Cellar's Prices are easy on you.

\) 
\) \} 
\Jl~~ 
\) \} 
\) 
\} \} \} \) \} \} \} \} \) 
\) \) \) \) \) 
MOLSON GOLDEN, BARTLE5 &JAYMES \)
\) 
ALE OR BEER COOLER 

\) 
\) 
\) 
2~-!oz ~211 g
. N.R.S • 4-PAK \) 
200 N. MAIN UNIVERSITY CENTER 254 DIXIEWU NORTH 1621 SOOTH BEND AVE. ELKHART MISHAWAKA ROSELAND SOUTH BEND 295-6310 277-7176 272-2522 233-4603 
1910 LINCOLNWU UST IIEUEVILLE SHOPPING CENTER 2934 E. McKINLEY SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND 233-8430 ' 233-8936 233-9466 



The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 1 5 
Michigan facing tough road games against crucial Big Ten opponents 
Associatrd Prr!l!l Northwestern, the league's bottom 
two teams. 
Michigan's Wolverines face a Michigan has a 19-2 record over­
pivotal week on the road in the Big all and is 7-2 in the conference. That 
Ten basketball race, hut Coach Bill gives Michigan a one-game lead over 
Frkdt·r isn't ready to push any panic Indiana and Iowa who are both at 6­
buuons. 3 and a two-game lead over Purdue, 
'11te seventh-ranked Wolverines Illinois and Michigan State who are 
play at Purdue tonight and travel to locked in fourth place with 5-4 
11linols for a nationally televised records. 
game Saturday. While Michigan is at Purdue 
"We know this is one of the toug­tonight, Michigan State will be at Il­hest trips in college basketball," said linois, Wisconsin at Indiana and Frieder, whose Wolverines have Northwestern at Ohio State. been 1·1 I In games played at Purdue Saturday's schedule finds Mic­and 11linois the past six seasons. higan at lllinois, Michigan State at 
"We know Purdue will have fire in Purdue, Wisconsin at Ohio State and its eyes, and lllinois feels it can still Northwestern at Indiana. Iowa is at win it all," Frieder said. "But if we Minnesota in a Sunday matinee. lose two, we won't push any panic button." Michigan can virtually wrap up its 
The reason is that after this road second straight Big Ten title with trip, the Wolverines have seven victories at Purdue and lllinois. Even games remaining with five at home a split would greatly favor the Wol­
and road games at Wisconsin and verines in their title drive. 
1631 E. Edison St. At the corner of Edison &St. Rd. 23 Just off N.D. campus 
WE WANT YOUR 
USED MUSIC 
Records * Cassettes *Compact discs 
CA$H OR TRADE 
Always a large selection ofguaranteed used albums and tapes and CD's. 
BLANK TAPE 
TRACKS carries a full line of MAXELL and TDK blank tape to suit all your recording needs 
*** See Coupon *** 
R I $1.00 ~~ 
~-----------------------10
A I Kodak Film 18 
I 100 ASA, 24 exposure $23g I(/)
c I I z:
I I 
I~-----------------------~0
K 
I 0..
1 Maxell XL/190 or TDK SA 90 I 0 
whenyoubuy6ormore.$l. 99 !8 
But If Michigan loses both games 
and Indiana or Iowa win a pair, the 
Wolverines could drop out of first 
place for the first time this seasor •. 
Although Indiana and Iowa im­
mediately trail Michigan, Frieder 
fears Illinois most. 
"Illinois is a great team and capable of being in the final four," said Frieder, looking ahead to the NCAA tournament. "They have done a good job despite their injuries." 
Illinois Coach Lou Henson didn't disagree. But he said that "we'd like to be better than 5-and-4. But in view of everything, things could be worse. Our defense has been carry­ing us. If we can get our offense 
'""'" A.P Phoco 

going, we have a chance to win some 
Indiana center Daryl Thomas, right, scrambles for a loose ball
games." 
with Illinois' Bruce Douglas, left, during first-half action in In­
Henson lauded the play of junior 
diana's 71-69 upset victory Saturday. Both teams enter crucial Big
Ken Norman, who is averaging 16.1 
Ten match-ups this week as Illinois meets Michigan this week.
points in Big Ten play and is ranked 
Story at left.
eighth in the league in scoring. 
Send your VALENTINE Hours a red chocolate 10 to 9 daily 

11 to 7 Sunday Ph. 277-8338 
,14. ~...,... 
Blow-out .._-f'-f'!~ .._ 
~~~ o""":.i'-~
i' ~,.~~~...,...
BINS 
I OO's off'"'<V, hot albums ~assics 
POSTERS& 

1 OO's of your favorite artists ~~­
~ . 

in stock to wear or hang on the ·~ wall--New Wave, Rock, Metal, . 
I .. ' 
Hard core. ·---......__ J 
I 

1(/) disc. I Z: 
MARCH ~ 1·8 ~ 15-22 ~ 8·15 ~ 22-29 
CONDO OR HOTEL LODGING PARTIES I GOODIE BAGS I MOREl 
USA I HAWAII 
1-800·321·5911 ~ ~" 
COLORADO \le ,~~ 
1-800-321-5912 .\)~ 


~----­
The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986-page 16 
Some NHL players are concerned about increasing injury problems 


NOTRE DAME STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
~ SPRINB BREAI<::esiJAVTONA BEACH 
1 

~ featuring lhelamou\CARRIAGE 7l 

Hotel &bus transportation, $209 



$PR/NfJ BREAI< IN FT. LAUDERDALE 
FEATURING THE TOTALLY NEW RIVIERA RESORT HOTEL 
RiRitf on tlte beaclt * RiRitf in tlte middle ol tlte Stl'i# ·--­
ICE~ 
Associated Press 

HARTFORD, Conn. -With high sticking penalties up significantly this season over last year, National Hockey League players are express­ing concern over their safety. 
Doug Wilson ofthe Chicago Black Hawks is wearing a helmet and mask for the first time in his career, and Wayne Gretzky of the Edmonton Oilers would like to get more protection from the referees. 
"You get a little leery when you see some of the accidental injuries ­the high sticks and the pucks," said Wilson, a starter on defense for the Campbell Conference in Tuesday night's NHL all-Star Game. "Now you look through the league and see some of the best players wearing a mask." 
Wilson was a longtime holdout against the helmet and mask, but changed his mind when he got hit by a stick and had his nose broken in 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
the second game ofthis season. 

"I had a few problems before, such as a skull fracture (three years ago), and the doctor recommended (a helmet and mask)." 
Wilson didn't feel comfortable at first wearing the head and facial protection, but eventually adjusted. 
"For me, it's more psychological," Wilson said. "I had never worn a hel­met and mask before. I think I let it bother me more than I should have. 
"There is a little trouble with sights lines. If the puck gets around your feet, you lose it a little bit. But if you worry about it, it becomes a big­ger problem than it really is." 
Being a player who never wore a helmet, Wilson said, "I almost thought it would be better ifnobody would wear one and everybody would keep their sticks down. But then you see the accidental things happening. You don't have to see somebody lose their eye before you wake up." 
Gretzky has added his voice to the chorus of complaints from players over the number of high-sticking incidents, particularly after Boston's Ray Middleton was slashed in the mouth by Montreal's Chris Nylund earlier this season. Middleton was out ofaction for a while and Nylund suspended for eight games. 
"This (high-sticking and slashing) has been happening for five and six years now," Gretzky said. "It didn't happen overnight. They used to say people were crybabies for com­plaining about it. Now it's getting the attention it deserves." 
John McCauley, director of NHL officials, said that high-sticking penalties are significantly higher than last season, but could not cite a percentage. 
He said that his office has in­structed referees to crack down in that area of penalty, hoping to reduce facial injuries. 
• UnlliMIW.W 
Hotel only, S 225 To Sign Up Hotel &Transportation, $309 Stop By The Student Activities Board .....,.n· Or For More Info , Call 239-7757 Please bring checks tq the Ticket Stub in the basement qf LaFqrtune. 11:30-4:30 
L.___________________________ 
------~ 
The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 1 7 
UGA admits athletes are favored, that admissions linked to revenue 


Studies program because she had no knowledge of politicians, protested preferential treatment of­alumni or contributors ever in­athletes. fluencing whether a student is ad­
Davison also said he believes high mitted to the university. schools have failed to provide stu· Defendants in the case are dent athletes with a basic education, Developmental Studies Director creating a "subculture" of football Leroy Ervin and Vice President for and basketball players who have Academic Affairs Virginia Trotter. graduated from high school but can­The characterization of athletes as not read. raw material was attributed to Ervin. 
Davison said he has been con­cerned for several years about the Defense attorney Hue Henry effects of the so-called "2.0 Rule," presented a letter addressed to Ervin· which allows athletes to enter col­which concerned a student, iden­lege if they leave high school with a tified only as R.C. of Cartersville, <.average. who was seeking a reconsideration 
He recalled that in 1982 he con­of his admission application. Henry ' ened a group of university officials said the student's grandfather, father trom across the nation to discuss and mother had served in the state 
v. ays to deal with the problem. legislature. 
Davison, who said he does not play an active role in the admission Kemp is seeking reinstatement, process, in response to a question back pay and damages in the five­from the defense testified that he week-old trial. 
A.'ISOCiated Press 
ATLANTA · The revenue potential ofsome athletes is part of the reason they are admitted to the University of Georgia with lower academic standards than ordinary students, s<:hool presidt•nt Fred C. Davison testit1ed yesterday. 
But he disagreed with a statement attributed to another school official that that athletes are merely "raw material." 
"Every student that comes to the university benefits by being there." Davison said. "If an individual learns only how to communicate bt·ttt·r. that is some justification." 
Davison was tht· final defense wit· ness in the federal trial of former in­structor Jan Kemp's suit against two university officials in which she al­leges that she was demoted and tired from the remedial Development 
SENIORS LAST CHANCE 
I 

If name appeared incorrectly on the registrar's Diploma printout 
ost Basketball and Pre-SY Lauahs at 
'We Can Make You Laugh' 
Student price is Guest judges will be John Carney (Jim McMahon look-a-like), Maureen McDonnell (Miss Virginia)and John Spotz (Senior Class President). Show is Saturday, Feb. 8,-7 p·m at Washington Hall. $25 reward to the person who won't laugh. Tickets at the Ticket Stub. 
The Observer Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 18 


Interhall hockey action heating up as OC and Carroll both score wins 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO 
Sports Writer 

lnterhall hockey action Tu~day night yielded two identical results, but the·caliber ofhockey was anyth-· ing bu.t comparable. Off-Campus beat Dillon 3-2 in a very emertalntng· and exciting game, whiCh Was COn' . trasted by Carroll's defeat of Stan· ford, 3,2. 
Off,Campus (2-0-1 ), ~he defending interhall ·champs, w.ere greeted by a charged-up Dillon team. After coming off of a disap­pointing tie with Morrissey, Off-Campus had hoped to show its dominance once again. However, Dillon was not willing to comply as it gave Off-Campus all it could handle. 
Off-Campus scored all of its goals in the second period, including the game-winner from Mike Clements with a minute to play in the game. Dillon ( 1-3) tied the game at 2-2 
Irish 
continuedfrom page 20 

sacrifices to the zebras, each time giving Dayton a fresh :45 on the shot clock. 
Now, Knight was on the spot with only 47 seconds left. But the fresh­man·remained cool and calmly sank all six of his free throw attempts the rest of the way, and the Irish .could not catch up despite a valiant effort. 
"Knight came through under pressure," Phelps said. "What can you say? 
midway th:rough the second period, but seemed to have run out of gas after having expended so much ef­fort in the first period. 
Coach Kevin O'Shea of Off­Campus breathed a sigh of relief as the· last ·second ticked off the clock. HiS ~quad-needed the victory to stay ln.contention for the Krause League crown: 
"We caine away with a hard 
·fought victory tonight," said O'Shea. "Oillon · has a very misleading record. They are much better than tneir record indicates. They have a well balanced team." 
Chris Almond and Jim Grow had .the other goals for Off-Campus. 
Carroll was able to hold on for a narrow 3-2 victory over Stanford in haphazard style. Carroll (3-1) grabbed a 3-0 lead on goals by John Berestka, Don Moran, and John McConville. Stanford (0-4) made it interesting by scoring two late goals, but it wasn't enough to prevent the loss. 
"Dayton played with a lot ofinten­sity and we didn't have the con­centration in key situations -that's where we broke down. We shot well in the first half, but Dayton shot bet­ter." 
In the final seconds, the Irish took one last run at Dayton when Jim Dolan hit a disputed jumper with 12 seconds left to bring Notre Dame to within two at 65-63. He was fouled on the play by Goodwin, but his en­suing free throw attempt was ruled no good because he stepped over the free throw line. 
The Irish were lucky in the first place that Dolan's basket even 

Did you know.. 
When accused of a hall offense, the possible disciplinary measures if found guilty are as 
follows: 

1.) A monetary fine 
2.) Restrictions within the hall 
3.) Hall probation 

4.) Constructive labor within or without the 
hall 

5.) Repayment of damages 
6.) Expulsion from the hall 
7.) Suspension or expulsion from the University. 
6 & 7are ultimately determined by the 
Associate Vice President. 
You have the right to appeal the decision of your rector to the Associate Vice President. 
The University reserves the right to make any changes in housing contracts. No r~ason need be provided. 
Know Your Rights 
• 4th of 5 advertisements 
on Students' Rights when 
accused of a University offense. 
(Clip and Post) 

Student Government 
"We"playblue-collarstyle hockey, it isn'tfancy, but we skated hard and it paid. off/' !!aid Berestka. We looked a bit·tir<~4 at the end, but we played strong.,defeilse behind goalie Tom Ga!lgha~.'~ · 
In other. action, Alumni, ( 4-0 ), continued. its blistering_ pace as it coasted to ·;m 8-1 win. Alumni is averaging dose to 1 l goals per game,·.whil.e giving up less than two. 
Fisher' (2-.2) evened its record · skating past hapless Sorin ( 0·4) in a 5-1 f;inal. 
Grace,. who plays tonight against Cavanaugh/Howard, remained un­beaten with· three wins after knock­ing off Dillon by the score of 6-2. Morrissey {1-2-1) dominated Flan­ner (0'3) winning easily by a margin 
of8,1. 
Pangborn (3-0), who plays tonight; can move into a first place tie with Alumni in the Corrigan League with a victory over Keenan 
(1-2). 
counted. Replays clearly showed that Irish forward Ken Barlow touched the ball while it was in the cylinder, although Barlow denied that fact after the game. 
In the first half, the Irish back­court came on strong, while the frontcourt appeared to still be in the locker room. Stevenson and Rivers connected from the outside for 12 of Notre Dame's first 13 points. 
Stevenson had 15 first-half points on 7-of-8 shooting. Not until Dolan's tip-in goal with 
9:38 gone did the Irish front line register anything other than three free throws by Donald Royal. 
·· ·-N·otre Dame and Saint Mary's newspaper Be a part of it. 


Don't be Dull on Valentine's Day 
Send your valentines in on Observer display ad *Pictures *graphics *your own wording deadline to submit display ads for February 14th Issue is 1PM February 12th ,.____ Call239·5303 for details. 



SHAKESPEARE IN CHICAGO! 

I > 
' 

r--------------------------------·~----------------------·­
~~~C3L~------------------------------------------T--hu_r_s_d_ay_._F_e_b_ru_a_ry._6_,1_9_s_6_-_p_a_g_e_1_9



Zeto 
, 

so A':f!~ TUIS FRM's OUR ';YJ(ANP ALL OF 11£ 6u'fs 14'\ve-DATFS ~ 
ONCE: MAIN ANOT1-£R 
HU/'1lR.L»1 M!Mr llllfltT 
'WI+II.E EVER.'rON/!" ELSE HAS A 6REAT'T"tME WITH 
THE"tR)IIillSAr ooRSY~. 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Identical 5 Praying figure 
In art 0 Pro­4 Muslim priest 5 Columbus' 
starting point ; Sponsorship ' African I Fleeting 
Before A Flintstone Seed coat Wild 
, Grain husk Adds zest to 
: Chaltarlng one Hidden provisions 
J4 Jostle 15 -du Diable '6 Mountain: 
comb. form 37 Throttle 38 Major Hoople's 
expletive 39 Sty @ 1986 Tribune Media Serv1ces, Inc. 2/6/86 
All Rights Reserved

40 Solo 41 Marla or 
Anita 6 Bolero 12 Approximation composer \4 Sieve 7 "When I was-" '5 Geometrical 8 Negative 
solid prefix 6 Sounds of 9 Mao -·tung 
suffering 10 Late 7 Old Turk. coin 11 Ripens 0 Jerusalem hill 12 Pastel 1 Young lox 13 Moviedog 4 Frothy 19 Condition 
..7 Nota-21 Manumit 58 Father 24 Reverberate 59 'Twixt heaven 25 Penniless 
and hell 26 Great review 60 Before: pref. 27 Range 61 Tied 28 Shaves 62 Eaten away 29 Conversation 63 Traffic sign piece 
30 Woody 

DOWN 31 Make happy 1 Magnitude 32 Fortification 2 Asian river 34 Piglet: var. 3 Harmful 37 Family group 4 Big bird 38 Work for 5 "Carmen" and 40 love to Luigi 
"Manon" 41 Read verse 
l

Wednesday's So ution 

Kevin Walsh 
"For crying out loud, Doris.... You gotta drag that 

/ // 
f / 
Campus 
•7:30 
P.M.· Get-together, CSC, Sponsored by Spanish Club, 

•4:10 
P.M.· Lecture, Lecture, "Career oppor­tunities for government/history majo, Career and Placement Services, 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services, All sophomores, juniors and seniors are invited 

•5:30 
P.M. -meeting, Women's Support Group, Room 316, Student Health Center, Sponsored by Counseling and Psychological Service Center, 

•7 
P.M. · Class, Natural Family Planning, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Bettcher, Room 124 Hayes­Healy, Sponsored by University Ministry, For married and engaged couples 

•3:30 
P.M. · Computing Mini-course, SPF Full-Screen Editor, Room 23 Computing Center, Free and open to the public 

•3:30 
P.M. · Computing Mini-course, Appleworks Wordprocessing, Room 104 Micro Lab, Free and open to the public 

•3:30 
P.M.· film, "Madame Bovary", Carroll Hall, Sponsored by Saint Mary's Modern Lan­guage Department, 


thing out every time we all get together?" 
•4:30 
P.M.· Colloquium, "Automorphism of Affine Space", Prof. Hanspeter Kraft, Univer· sity of Basel, Room 226 CCMB, 

•KEENAN 
REVIEW · 

•7:30 
P.M. -Keenan Review, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 

•8 
P.M. -Lecture, "Feminism and Biblical Faith", Prof. Phyllis Trible, Baldwin Professor of Sacred Literature, Library Auditorium, Sponsored by Union Theological Seminary, 

•8 
P.M. · FUm, "Generations of Resistance", CSC, Sponsored by African and .Black Studies, 

•7:30 
P.M. · Informational meeting, Notre Dame Washington Semester, Room 114 O'Shughnessy, Sophomores in Arts and Let­ters are invited to atte 

•4 
P.M. · Seminar, "The Transformation of American Sisters: The Sist, Mary Schneider, Michigan State University, Library Lounge, Sponsored by Cushwa Center American Cat­holic Studies Seminar, 

•4 
P.M. -Swim Meet, Rolfs Aquatic Center, 


N.D. vs. Bradley 

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Beef Noodle Soup Turkey with Dressing Beef Stuffed Pepper Hungarian Noodle Bake Cheese Steak Sandwich Whipped Potatoes with gravy 
TV Tonight 
8:00P.M.  16  The Cosby Show  
22  Magnum, PI  
28  Ripley's BeUeve It or Not  
34  Reye's Symdrome: Child-killer  
in Disguise  
8:30P.M.  16  Family Ties  
34  New Image Teen Theatre  
9:00P.M.  16  Cheers  
22  Simon & Simon  

Saint Mary's 
Broiled Chicken French Dip Sandwich Cheese Omelette Chili Macaroni 
' 
28 The Colby's 34 Mystery 616 · "The Greek Inter­
preter"  
9:30P.M.  16  Night Coun  
10:00 P.M.  16  Hill Street Blues  
22  Knots landing  
28  20/20  
34  Heritage:  Civilization  and  the  
jews  


43 Hockey 
players? 44 Tranquilize 46 After-dinner 
favorites 47 Afr. fox 48 Br. con man 49 Unsullied 
2/6/86 
50 Nothing 52 Biblical preposition 53 Electronic 
sound 55 Witness 56 Elevator cage 57 -·relief 


Feb. 7 &8 Friday and Saturday Hall of Engineering 
7:00 9:15 11:30 $1.50 

Student Activities Board 
They call themselves "Tbe Goonies:· The secret caves. The old lighthouse. 
The lost map. The treacherous traps. The hidden treasure. And Sloth ... Join the adventure. 
Hall of Engineering Thurs., Feb. 6 
S.A.B. 
7:00 9:15 11:30 
$1.50 

-~~-------.. 


Thursday, February 6,1986 -page 20
SRorts 
Notre Dame falls short at Dayton as Stevenson shines with 23 points 
ByJEFF BLUMB Dame freshman, Sean Connor, hit a hard time getting it to (Dave) Col­Sports Editor jumper from the left baseline to put bert and Young," said Dayton coach the Irish on top, 42-41. Don Donoher. "We had a lot of 
DAYTON, Ohio Freshman The Irish would stretch that mar­trouble with that defense when they Negele Knight hit six free throws gin to three at 46-43, before the host switched to it in the second half. We down the stretch to send Dayton to a Flyers ran up eight straight points to took the two timeouts at the right 67-65 upset of the 14th-ranked take a commanding 51-46 lead. Ed time -we needed them just to get Notre Dame basketball team last Young, who missed all of last season organized. night at UD Arena. with a knee injury, capped the "In the first half, our offensive ex­
Overshadowed in the loss was the Dayton spurt with a short jumper. ecution was very good. But starting 23-point performance of Irish fresh­and a resounding slam dunk-his first the second half, we got a little quick man Mark Stevenson, a career high. dunk of the season -off the fast on the trigger. I don't know how, but Stevenson's previous. high was 16 break. somehow we lost the lead and then points against Maryland Monday Young's dunk sent Phelps calling got it back." night at the ACC. for his first timeout, and the brief When Dayton broke its huddle for 
"Dayton outplayed us," said Irish respite appeared to aid the Irish. the second time, Damon Goodwin head coach Digger Phelps. "They Notre Dame, 15-4, again rallied to hit a baseline jumper to put the deserved to win. 'we were a little even the game at 55, but the Irish Flyers back on top. Young followed tired down the stretch, but that's no blew their chance to go ahead when with a fast-break layup moments excuse. David Rivers missed the second shot later, and Dayton had control again 
"Mark Stevenson had a spec­ofa two-shot foul. at 59-55 with just 1:55 remaining. The: Observer/Pete laches tacular game for us. He's been just Dayton, at that point bafilled by At that point, the Irish had to start great the last twO games." the match-up zone of the Irish, had fouling, but still had four to give. Notre Dame guard Mark Stevenson (24) takes a jumpshot en 
Dayton, I 3-8, led the Irish by to call two timeouts in a 1:08span to Notre Dame made four quick route to scoring 23 points in last night's loss to the Dayton Flyers, three at halftjme, 37-34, but lost its regroup. 67-65. Guarding Stevenson is Dayton's Damon Goodwin who lead four-and-a-half minutes into the "When Notre Dame went to its scored 16 points while playing the full 40 minutes. jeff Blumb 
second session when another Notre match-up zone, we were having a details the game at left. 

Keys sets Irish point scoring mark in losing effort to NSC rival Flyers 
By MARlY STRASEN down the stretch. 14 shooting. Theresa Yingling used Sports Writer Even as the shot fell through the her 6-5 frame to pull down nine/ net, it was obvious that Keys was rebounds and score 1 0 points for the Trena Keys was on a roll. The more concerned with winning the winners, while teammate Cheryl 
Notre Dame women's basketball game. Her smile only lasted for an Dickerson added l 0 boards. team had opened up a 50-45 lead instant. , Kruty scored on a drive to th after a tight first half. But a record­"I try not to think about it," said hoop with just under a minute to breaking performance by Keys and a the 6-1 forward, who needed 1 7 play which gave Dayton the lead 
five-point lead were not enough to points to break the record and they would not relinquish. She then hold off the Dayton Flyers, who finished with 20. "The main thing iced the win for the Flyers, which roared back and handed the Irish a was that we were going to have to brings their record to 5-1 in the con­61-58loss at the ACC last night. win the game, and that didn't hap­ference, with four free-throws in the 
With 9:3 7 remaining to play in the pen. final 14 seconds. game, Keys sank a baseline jumper "Right now it really hasn't hit me. I Notre Dame head coach Mary DiS­to give Notre Dame a 46-45 edge. want to see what we can do the rest tanislao saw the inside play of The shots marked a string of 1 0 Irish of the season. Today was a big loss Dayton as the key factor in the game. points in a row for Keys, and'brought for us. If we could have gone un­"Dayton dominated us on the her career total to 1,3 75, surpassing defeated (in the conference) we boards," she explained. "We knew Shari Matvey's old record to make would have had a better shot at they had the potential to dominate Keys Notre Dame's all-time leading (making) the (NCAA) Tournament. inside and they did it. The bottom scorer. Now it's going to be tough." line was the boards, the inside game. 
The moment was shortlived, Sophomore center Sandy Botham That's where they won it." however. After the toilet-paper scored 10 first-half points to lead the The Irish had a chance to pull streamers were picked up off the Irish to a 36-33 lead, but the team ahead when Keys pulled down a floor and after it looked as though was soon cut off from its inside game rebound after a missed Flyer shot
Irish forward Trena Keys, shown here in action earlier this 
the Irish were on their way to their by a larger Dayton front line. Mic­with Dayton leading 57-56 and 23
season, raised her career point total to 1,375 surpassing the Notre 
sixth straight North Star Conference hele Kruty, a 6-2 sophomore for the seconds to go. Notre Dame worked
Dame all-time mark in a losing effort against Dayton last night at 
victory ofthe season, the Flyers took Flyers, was unstoppable throughout
theACC. Marty Strasen details the action at rigbt. 
See DAYTON, page 13

charge and were able to pull it out the game. scoring 23 points on 9-of-
Kelley is an ND grad trying to end the stereotype 
It was April 30, 1985, the date of the National Foot­ball League's college player draft -a day of dreams and expectations for the more talented college football ath­letes. 
A group of Irish seniors held high hopes of being selected in the early rounds. Some of the less-heralded players hoped they would at least be picked in the lower rounds and get a chance to showwhat they could do in the NFL. 
But by the end of the day, all the Irish players were pretty disappointed. Most said they were selected lower than they had expected, and some waited anxiously by the phone late into the night and never even received that all-important call. 
It wasn't the first time that Notre Dame football players had suffered this sort ofdisappointment on draft day. And it was still sort of a mystery as to why players that were projected as first-and second-round draft choices were being passed over until the fourth, fifth, or sixth rounds. But there were some theories. 
"The scouts, when they get together, will say things like, "Well, he's a Domer.' To them it's like saying a guy's only got one arm," said Paul Zimmerman, a pro football writer for Sports Illustrated who served as a color com­
/ 
mentator for ESPN's live coverage of the draft. "This is not me talking now, but Notre Dame players have the reputation of a superior attitude. Consequently scouts think they come into the pros not as hungry as kids from other schools." 

Larry Burke 
Football Notebook 
Mike Kelley was one of those guys waiting by the phone last April. Uke most of the Notre Dame players that were picked, he was happy, but he was also a little disappointed. 
The Sporting News had tabbed Kelley as the top guard prospect in the draft and a probable first-round selection. But Kelley, who collected his accolades as a center while at Notre Dame, wasn't picked until the third round, when the Houston Oilers called his name. 
"That stereotype of Notre Dame players came up during the draft," Kelley recalls. "I read an article about it and my agent also told me about it. It's the beliefthat Notre Dame guys, especially offensive linemen -which is what I was drafted as -just think about studying, and they don't have to play football. 
"There were guys like Ken MacAfee. When he went out ofcollege he didn't care about playing football. He just took the money and went to dental school. That was kind ofthe reason they told me I got drafted lower than I should have. Notre Dame guys don't have to play the game, so they just kind ofgo through the motions. 
"But that's not true. That stereotype exists but I don't believe in it. I enjoy playing the game and I've had fun playing it. Hopefully I can get eight to ten more years of playing the game before I quit." 
Kelley, who is back at Notre Dame this semester 
finishing up his sociology degree, is one of a group of 
players who may just dispel that stereotype over the 
next few years. Kelley's Oiler teammates Larry Moriarty 
and Mike Golic are a couple others, along with players 
like Greg Bell, Mark Bavaro, Mike Gann, Stacey Toran, 
Dave Duerson and Tom Thayer. 
The 6-6 Kelley was limited to special teams duty this 
past season, but believes he'll be breaking into the Oiler 
lineup in the ne_xt few seasons. His versatility is cer­
tainly an asset -he has already played center, guard and 
tackle for the Oilers. 
Kelley thinks that Notre Dame's high standards may a reason why pro scouts sometimes overlook Irish players in the draft. 
"I think its just that Notre Dame has that bigacademic standard for every player that comes there, and people just go by that," Kelley says. "Notre Dame doesn't fire coaches, because if they did it would be like Notre Dame doesn't concentrate on academics, they're now concentrating on football. But they don't want that. They have better things to stress instead offootball." 
And Notre Dame's recent lack ofsuccess on the foot-
See DRAFT, page 13 





