
SMC elections -page 5 

VOL XX, NO. 90 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Not all books 
Textbooks andfrantically studying students are end ofcampus, fountain andall, can be seen out of notall that can befound on the Memorial Library's the northwest wtndqw. thirteenth floor. This spectacular view ofthe north 

Soviet dissident Sbcharansky freed tn prisoner swap 
TEL AVIV, Israel Anatoly Shcharansky, the Soviet human rights activist imprisoned for nine years as a spy, was freed on a snowy Berlin bridge yesterday and flown to a tumultuous, emotional welcome in Israel. 
The 38-year-old Jewish dissident had become known as the "prisoner of Zion," a focus for international jewry and symbol of jews who are 
not  allowed  to  leave  the  Soviet  
Union.  
Also  included  in  the  East-West  

prisoner exchange on Berlin's Glienicke Bridge were five people held In the West on spy charges and three held in the East. 
Shcharansky was freed first, apart from the others, to emphasize the 
U.S. insistence that he was not a spy. He was arrested in 1977 and a Soviet court convicted him of spying for the CIA, sentencing him in 1978 to 13 years imprisonment. 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres and Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir embraced Shcharansky as he and his wife Avital, who met him in Frankfun, stepped from the Israeli executive jet at Ben-Gurion Airpon. The ceremony was broadcast live on radio and television. 
Shcharansky clasped his hands above his head in victory, then held hands with A vital as she introduced him to Cabinet members, helping him with his Hebrew. For more than a decade she has lived In Israel and campaigned for his freedom. 
About  3,000  people  gathered  
outside  the  terminal  building  
cheered  and  waved  as  the  

Shcharanskys and Peres went inside to telephone President Reagan. "We thanked him for his tireless efforts out of a deep feeling for the jewish people and an inner convic­tion that the jewish people deserve to leave the Soviet Union," the prime minister said. The 4";-mlnute prisoner exchange was the latest of several on the Glienicke Bridge, a green metal structure across the Havel Rlver bet, ween West Berlin and Potsdam in communist East Germany. This one came 24 years and a day after American U-2 pilot Francis Gary Powers and Kremlin master spy Rudolf Abel were exchanged there. Snow was falling as Shcharansky crossed, wearing a fur hat and a broad smile. The snow had been cleared from a 4-lnch-wide line In the middle ofthe bridge that marks the border bet­ween East and West. When he saw the line, Shcharansky said in English, "Look, no wall," and took a giant step over it. 

Notre Dame grad student injured in car crash 
from the 7:55a.m. accident. He is in mitted to Memorial Hospital and to Father Andre Leveille, director of
By TRIPP BALTZ 
an intensive care unit at the hospital. released Saturday. University Ministry. Leveille visited
CopyEdttor 
Corporal Dennis jay, public in­Anselimino Monday night. Anselimino is married and the fat­formation officer for the countyA Notre Dame graduate student is 
her ofa four-month-old son. police, said the accident occurred "He was critical for two days, but listed in critical condition at 
on U.S. 33 nonh, 30 feet north of he's improving," said Levellle. 
Memorial Hospital of South Bend Anselimino lost control of his car Oakdale Drive. Levellle added that Anselimlno's 
after he was injured in a two-car after making a lane change, then condition was still serious since he accident Friday morning, according crossed the center turning lane and Exact details about the accident was In intensive care. to St. joseph County Police. was struck by a car being driven by are unknown as it is still under inves­Priests or staff from University 
Joyce Kantner, according to a police tigation, according to jay. Ministry ordinarily visit students 
Jeff Anselimino, a part-time en­report. Kantner, of 2621 Lexi­Anselimlno lives in EauClair, who are seriously ill or injured "to gineering student, received internal ngton, Mishawaka, sustained minor Mich., where he works for the pray with them and minister to Injuries to the pelvis and abdomen bleeding to the head. She was ad-Whirlpool Corporation, according them," Leveille said. 
Cyanide poisoning linked to Tylenol capsules 
Associated Pre!IS Authorities announced last Mon­day that Diane Elsroth, 23, of 
YONKERS, N.Y. -Homicide inves­Peekskill had been fatally poisoned tigators asked the FBI yesterday to by cyanide after taking Tylenol on determine-when someone tampered Saturday. Three other capsules in with a package of Extra-Strength the bottle Elsroth used contained Tylenol capsules used by a woman the polson, officials said. whose death from cyanide poison­No polson or tampering had been Ing prompted stores nationwide to found in other bottles ofTylenol and remove the pain· killer from shelves. "there is no evidence of any bottles 
"We have to find out ifthe tamper­being involved beyond the par­. . .
'·"r.'·.. ...

ing occurred pre-sealing or post· ticular one," said Michael Young, sealing before we decide our next commissioner of the federal Food ,.•··~ step," said Bruce Bendish, chief of and Drug Administration. the Westchester County district at­FDA spokesman Willlam Grigg • torney's homicide squad. He said the said the Extra·Strenth Tylenol pack­packaging of the Extra-Strength aglng'makes the capsules among the Tylenol capsules was sent to the FBI most protected in the lndustry.John crlime l~boratory in Washington. Walden; senior vice president of the 
ljohnson & Johnson, maker of Proprietary Association, the trade Tyknol, has been sealing the necks group for non-prescription drug 
APPIIoco

and caps ofTylenol bottles and pack­manufacturers, said that unlike the -··· Ing each bottle in sealed boxes since 1982 Chicago poisonings, this lnci­the unsolved case in which seven A&P supermarket store shelflate Monday afternoon after reports 
Tylenol pain reliefpills were pulledfrom this 
Saint Mary's votes today in elections 
Special to 1be Observer 
Today is election day for stu· dent body and class offices at Saint Mary's. Voting will take place in the Haggar College Center from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
The unopposed candidates for student body offices are: Jeanne Heller, student body president, Betsy Burke, vice president for academic affairs and College rela­tions, and Sarah Cook, vice presi­dent for student affairs. 
Ballots for the student body positions will have the option of voting yes, no, or abstain. 
Running for senior class offices are the tickets of Katie Sullivan, president, Lori Lohman, vice president, Jenny Feeney, secretary, and Clare Hausmann, treasurer. They arc opposed by Patty Curran, Maureen Erny, Chris Rashid and Mary Roe. 
The junior class candidates arc 
Eileen Hetterich, president, Jill 
Winterhalter, vice president, Ann 
Ruth, treasurer, and Molly Stan­
ton, secretary. They are opposed 
by Mary Kim Koch, Louise Foley, 
Amy Falkosky and Tami Rose. 
Sophomore class candidates 
are Janel Hamann, vice president, 
Annie Buch, vice president, 
Molly Flynn, treausurer, and 
Rozel Gatmaltan, secretary. They 
are opposed by Theresa Pries­
thoff, Allison Weston, Kiernan 
Walter, and Beth Kerper. 
All newly elected officers will 

Tylenol users were killed by cyanide thatthepillsmayhavebeen Involved In a cyanidepoisoning. Story 
see TYLENOL, page 4 
assume their positions April 1.

in the ChkaRo area in 1982. at left. 
The Observer Wednesday, February 12,1986-page 2 
Of Interest 
"Abortion: The Right Choice For Some Women?" will be the topic of a lecture given by Dr. Janet Smith tonight at 7:30 in the library Auditorium. This will kick off the third annual Phone-a-thon for the Women's Care Center. -The Observer 
"Protect Yourself and Others" will be the 
subject of a discussion in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge tonight at 
7. The discussion will be conducted by Dr. Mark Saddock. -The Ob­server 
Spiritual Rockwill hold a Christian Fellowship Meeting tonight at 7 in the Keenan/Stanford chapel. All are welcome. -The Observer 
A forty-hour prayer vigil for peace will be held 
after the 5 p.m. Ash Wednesday service in Sacred Heart Church. The vigil, in which representatives of every academic, administrative, and staffdepartment as well as every dormitory will take part, will be held in the Lady Chapel ofthe church. -The Observer 
A representative from VIDA (volunteers in 
Diocesan Action)will be at the Library Concourse tomorrow from 9 
a.m. to 3 p.m. to discuss ideas ofvolunteerism and service to. others. VIDA is interested in people who are willing to make a ten-month commitment to serve in areas ofyouth ministry, parish work, teach­ing, social work and health care. -The Observer 
Manchur0 lson, professor ofeconomics at the Univer­sity ofMaryland, will give a lecture entitled, "A New Approach to the Ethics of Income Distribution" tomorrow at 4:15 in the library Auditorium. Olson's lecture is sponsored by the Notre Dame Col­lege of Business Administration as the eighth of its Manville American Enterprise Lectures. -The Observer 
Senior Ski Night is tonight at Ski Valley from 7 to 10. A bus will leave the main circle at 6 and will cost $2. Rental and lift tickets costs n 2, and lift tickets are $7.25 if you have yourown skis. ­
The Observer 

The Ensemble Company of Cincinnati Opera will perform in O'Laughlin Auditorium tomorrow night at 8. Under the direction ofByron Dean Ryan, ECCO! will present several selec­tions from musical theater, operetta and opera. The concert also will include a one-act dramatic opera. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Professor Joseph Buttigieg will speak on 
"After Gramsci" at the Department ofEnglish Faculty-Student collo­quium tomorrow at 4 p.m. at Wilson Commons. The public is welcome:-The Observer 
All economics majors are invited to a debate bet­ween Associate Professor Frank Bonello and Associate Professor Jim Rakowski on the impact offederal budget deficits. The debate is set for tonight at 7 at the Center for Social Concerns. The debate is sponsored by Omicron Delta Epsilon. -The Observer 
Women in Society will be the topic of a discussion tonight at 8 in the Center for Social Concerns coffee-house. The discussion is sponsored by "Women United for Justice and Peace."­
The Observer 
Weather 

Squirrels will die if it gets much colder than this. There's a 30 percent chance of light snow today with highs in the low teens. Partly cloudy and very cold tonight with lows from zero to 5 below. Partly sunny and a little warmer tomorrow with highs in the upper teens. -AP 



Design Editor...........•.Jane Anne Riedford Design Assistant......,.,....,......... Rob Luxem layoutStaff..,.,.,.,..,......,..., .. Mary R~olds Typesetters... Pat Clark, Suzanne Hammer News Edttor.,•......~ ..,.,.,.,.,., Mary Heilmann Copy Editor.,..,.,....,..,., .... Mark Mclaughlin Sports Copy Editor...,.,.,., Mike Szymansky Vtewpotnt CopyEditor...........Tim Adams 
VIewpoint Layout..,.,.,...., Melissa Warnke FeaturrfS Copy Editor...•.. Gertie Wimmer FeaturrfS Layout.,.,.,,., . .,.,......,..,, Carey Gels 
ND Day Editor..,.,.,.,..,....,...., Ellen Mastako SMC Day Editor..,., .... .,..,....,.. ., ......, MJ Sully AdDesign. Fred Nelson,Kimberly Brown Pbotograpber...Jim Carroll, Robenjones 

The Obeerver (USPS ~99 2-4000) is publishrd Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. lbeObserver is published by the students ofthe llniversity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, Subscriptions may be purchasrd for J30 per yrar ( JlO per srmestrr) by writing lbe Obeerver, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
4M~6, 

The Obeerver is a member of lbr Associated Press. All reproduction rights are resrrvrd. 

Athletes 'surpass stereotypes' in anti-apartheid ribbon display 
During the Houston Rockets/Chicago Bulls NBA game two weeks ago, the Rockets wore a black band across the strap of their jerseys in honor of the seven astronauts killed in the Challenger explosion. 
Throughout the 1985 championship season, the Chicago Bears wore the initials "GSH" on their jersey sleeves in honor of the late George S. Halas, who found~d the Bears and organized professional football. 
Millions ofcollege basketball fans across the country turned on their television sets Nov. 25 to watch the St. John's/Pitt game. When the Panther players took the court, they wore on their jerseys red, green and black ribbons in protest of Pitt University's investments in companies .that do business with the Pretoria govern­ment in South Africa. 
While the Rockets and the Bears statements are something of a tradition among athletes to honor the recently deceased, the Pitt players' protest takes this one step further. They have taken sports from being 

Dan 
McCullough 
News Editor 
In a lecture Monday night, comedian/activist Dick Gregory addressed black athletes in the audience, cal­ling them "gladiators." He asked them, "Do you have any integrity at all?" 
He also compared black athletes with slavery. 
Now, P<:rhaps Gregory was exaggerating the public's conception of athletes, especially black athletes, to make his point. But the point remains -there is someth­ing wrong with an educational system that allows, even condones, full scholarships to athletes only so they can 
play sports and make money 
for their school. 

simply entertainment or an An athlete, black or white, excuse to gamble. who does not take 
Their action shows how advantage of his or her sports and real-life issues are natural gifts to gain an becoming increasingly in­education and broaden his termixed. Athletes are or her intellectual scope 'is surpassing the stereotype of cheating him or herself. And dumb jocks and are more a socially-conscious athlete and more often using their who doesn't use his or her position of visibility to in­visible position is cheating crease public awareness those who look up to the about important issues. athlete. 
The Pitt players' actions il­Imagine what would hap­lustrate what many people pen if the more than 8,000 seem to forget -that athletes screaming, stomping and of­are thinking, conscientious ten frothing Notre Dame people as well as trained fans were to see their basket­
competitors. They used their privileged situation to make a statement about somethipg in which they really believe. 
The entire team wore the anti-apartheid ribbons on their uniforms during a nationally televised game. Even Panther coach Roy Chipman agreed to wear the rib­bons. It was a meaningful political statement in bet­ween the Ute beer ads, deodorant commercials, and Brent Musberger ramblings. 
That's great. 

Pitt player Matt·Miklasevich said he wanted to take the statement even further. "Everyone on the team sup­ports divestment," he said in an article in The Pitt News. "And as a general consensus we all agreed to wear the ribbons. 
"I personally am for divestment. But after all, we're here to play basketball, not to make a political stand. Also, the ribbons were only worn for the nationally televised game. lf we're going to wear them, then it 
should be at all the games." 

AMERICAN 
CANCER 
• SOCIETY8 
NEED 

MONEY FOR 
COLLEGE? 
• 
Scholarships 

• 
Fellowships 



• Grants • Awards 
• Loans 

GUARANTEED RESULTS 
5-25 Sources or YOUR MONEY BACK 
Undergraduate (College, Professional, Technical) . Graduate, Athletic STUDENT AID SERVICES 
55801 East Avenue P.O. Box 931 Mishawaka, IN 46545 (219) 291-8439 



"LO THE ffoodf.ihlf!ll RoLL( W£ hQve. a-ne~y­ANb Low Pll.ICE3 j S.eec-ia.l SaVJi..tG:S o,v /1oiV;1uES AND Wos) ·~·~ ~-,~ NEW! ~PAGU£Tll /JJNNE/I,wJdr.u/ie~ 
r'~y OIJ/i tf£AT8ALL SAII!JWICH, Lt~t-1/etdhtUls, ~ QJJt/. t),~ ~ OU/f OWN SPtf!J4L /WAST8€EFw1THt!liEAHI :lrA.Lfttll $Mice.. CWHJNS q,J eheest. •AlL~nJw,eJ,u sERVEIJ oN 81JifaliCAI BuN$ a¥ c.-. w1+1t O.ips.$-:J.:!fJ~ 
roRA. G-ootmfr/£ CALL 1 
~3J.:]ggJ l 
ball heroes runningout onto 
the ACC court wearing anti­apartheid ribbons. Imagine what the fans would do if some athletes made statements to the lockerroom sports writers that maybe the University should stop supporting companies that invest in South Africa. Im­agine what people would say if Digger Phelps wore a black carnation to protest the jailingofNelson Mandela. Imagine the discussions these actions would promote. 
Basketball is very important to Notre Dame sup­porters. To use this forum to make a statement about this important issue would be to show the country that Notre Dame means more than NCAA tournaments or bowl games. It would show that visible members ofthe Notre Dame community realize when the administra­tion is making a mistake, and it could provide a focal point for University action. 
Help the March of Dimes 





The Observer Wednesday, February 12,1986-page 3 

Valentine's Day dance benefits MS campaign 
By ROBERT HENNIG 
News Staff 
A Faculty and Student Valentine's Day Dance will be held this Friday at 8 p.m. as part of Notre Dame's fundraising activities to benefit the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation. 
Dance contests will be held, with prizes including free dinners at local restaurants and tickets to the South Bend Symphony. A trip to Florida for two will be given away as a door prize at 11 :00 p.m. According to Dance Committee Chairman Vince Willis, Notre Dame participated last year with 11 other Midwestern col­leges in the MS Rock-Alike competi­tion to raise the most money per
Rock ofages 
capita. Notre Dame won the contest 
and received a free concert by
The four crosspieces slated to sit atop the elgbt day. The crosspieces are engraved wltb the names of 
Tommy Shaw.
stone pillars of the fYotre Dame War Memorial four ofthe wars that the United States bas been tn­
Fountain were set doWn near the fountain yester-vo/vedln. 
But this year, the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation changed many of the rules. According to Willis, "they were pretty much dictating
Alcohol Awareness Week planned more or less what campuses were 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI 
Senior StaffReporter 
The details of Alcohol Awareness Week and a career day in In­dianapolis for sophmores and juniors were presented to the Hall President's Council last night. 
Student Government Alcohol Awareness Commissioner Flfi Par­dlsa Informed 'the Hall President's Council ofAlcohol Awareness Week March 9-14. Pardlso said the ac­tivities of the week will attempt to increase students' awareness of al­cohol problems. 
"The week will focus on alcohol awareness for the social drinker, people who don't drink that much, people: with drinking problems and people: recovering from drinking problems," she said. 
Pardisa said a spt"aker from th!'= llni\'ersity of l>c:nver will address students on the problems of alcohol abuse and' awareness, responsible use of alcohol and responsible campus-wide uses ofalcohol. 
During the week Pardisa said the film "Choices" will be shown. "The film teaches responsible use of al­cohol," she said. In addition, stu­dents who have recovered from alcohol problems will speak along with speakers from the University of Iowa and the University of Min­nesota, who will explain alcohol problems on other campuses. Pardisa said the slogan for the week will be "SMASH"-Stop Making Al­cohol a Social Habit. 
Gretchen Froehlke, HPC secretary, Informed the HPC of a career day Monday, March 11. Froehkle said interested students should pick up an application from the Alumni Office and return it by Friday. 
decided that Notte Dame's par­
ticipation In this year's Rock-Alike 
would not be feasible. 
Instead, the committee organized a dance which would not only raise 
money for Multiple Sclerosis, but 
also promote better student and 
faculty relations, Willis said. 
"There seems to be a consensus 
on campus right now that there is a 
lack of student-faculty intermin­
gling," he said. 
According to Adele Lanan, assis­tant director of media and programming at the Office of Stu­dent Activities, "it (student-faculty intermingling) has never been a problem, it's just never been done. I'm jQSt really excited in terms of getting faculty and students toget­her. I think it's just a great way to get more and lines of communication open." Lanan indicated that she would like to see an organized event each semester for faculty and stu­dent interaction and added, "it's im­portant for students to invite their faculty." 
The dance is being supported by student government, the four classes and the Around the Corner . Club,. according to Willis. He also said that between l 000 and 2000 people are expected, including 300 to 400 faculty and administrators. Willis expects to raise between 
S4000 and S6000. 
Tickets are S3 and can be purchased 
at the Office of Student Activities, 
The Ticket Stub, from several stu­
dents on campus or at the door. 

On the eleventh, participants will be driven by bus to Indianapolis where they will be introduced to a member of the Indianapolis Alumni Club who will show participants around a business that deals with the career of their choice. 
The details ofthis weekend's Mul­tiple Sclerosis Valentine's Day dance were given to the HPC by Vince Wil­lis, chairman ofthe dance. 
Willis said the doors of Stepan supposed to do to be able to raise money (and) when they had to do it." He added that the winner would be decided on overall fundraising, not on a per capita basis. 
Willis said that these rules stifled the type of flexibility that charac­terized Notre Dame's participation in the fundraising contest last year to the point "where it was impossible to run the kind of campaign we wanted." After meeting with various student leaders, the committee 
Center will open at 8:30 and the band "Britches" will begin playing at 
9:00. Around 11:00 a trip to Florida will be raftled off and free flowers will be given to the first 100 girls ac­cording to Wlllis. 
In addition Willis said all faculty members and certain members of 
the  staff and  administration  have  
been  invited  to  "boost  the  
proceeds."  

SOberingAdvice·.: cat;~ savealife ', 
Think Before YOU Dr1nk ,~· Before You Dr1ve .:~_.·· 
Country Florist & Gifts, Inc. 
60805 U.S. 31 South 
AREA WIDE DELIVERY -CHARGE IT BY PHON 

AllOONS. FLOWERS .. PlANT•.: 
VISA . • · , ~
-.• 
~ 

-.. I
·lclc 1 ra ........~~ ~/ ..____Order your Valentines flowers today!! 
__---J 


Don't be Dull on Valentine's Day 
Send your valentines in on Observer display ad *Pictures *graphics *your own wording deadline to submit display ads for February 14th Issue Is 1PM February 12th ,......___Caii239·5303·tor details. 


The Observer 
Wednesday, February 12,1986 -page 4 

SMC EXCEL fund drive continues 
its own preliminary investigation to use Tylenol capsules for the next under federal laws against tamper­few days. 
Tylenol 

ing with consumer products. Elsroth, who had been spending the weekend in the home of her
continuedfirompage 1 Police in Yonkers received only
about· half a dozen calls from resi­boyfriend, Michael Notarnicola, felt dent appeared to be "a single, is-dents saying they had bottles from 
ill and took two Tylenol capsulesolated case ofpoisoning." the Tylenol lot number -ADF916, 
early Saturday, McClain said. The Tylenol capsules were removed with a May 1987 expiration date -capsules were from a new bottle that voluntarily from 1,000 A&P stores in tliat Elsroth used. Her bottle was Notarnicola opened, he said. 25 states and the District of Colum-bought at an A&P in Bronxville. Elsroth was discovered dead bia, and other stores in Michigan and The batch, about 200,000 bottles about 12 hours later, after failing to Illinois did the same. Two California of 24 capsules each, was shipped appear for breakfast or lunch. Notar­chains, Vons and Ralphs, removed Aug. 22 and by now most of it nicola's mother swallowed a Tylenol Tylenol from their more than 300 probably has been sold and used, from the bottle without ill effect stores. said Robert Kniffin, a Johnson & after the body was found, according FBI spokesman Joseph Valiquette Johnson spokesman. to Marc Moran, a county govern­said ·the agency also was beginning The company advised callers not ment spokesman. 
--~~~~~~~~~~ 
WASHINGTON-President Reagan said last night the United States 
is neutral in the bitter Philippines presidential election, and an­
nounced plans to send veteran U.S. diplomat Philip Habib to Manila 
to "help nurture the hopes and possibilities ofdemocracy." 
"We're neutral, and we then hope to have the same relationship 
with the people ofthe Philippines that we've had ail these years," the 
president said at a nationally televised news conference. 
In a written statement distributed moments before he stepped before White House reporters, Reagan said he found it disturbing that the election had been "flawed by reports offraud, which we take seriously, and by violence." 
In his statement, Reagan said he was sending Habib to meet with leaders of both political parties as well as with church and govern­ment officials and representatives ofprivate sector groups. 
Reagan said he would have no other comment on the election until the ballot count was finished. 
Reagan's comments on the Philippines came with the outcome of the election between President Ferdinand Marcos and challenger Corazon Aquino still in doubt several days after the balloting closed. Each side has claimed victory, and the Marcos-controlled National Assembly is preparing a final, official canvass. 
Reagan added that the administration is concerned "about the violence that was evident there and the possibility Qffraud. It could have been all ofthat was occurring on both sides." 
The president opened his news conference with a pitch for his 1987 fiscal year budget, and took note ofcritics who say it·is "DOA­dead on arrival" He said those critics only want a tax increase to reduce deficits -and said any such increase would be "VOA-vetoed on arrival." 
Reagan's session with reporters was his first In five weeks and the 34th ofhis presidency. Itwas a session dominated from the outset by foreign policy questions. 
Asked about the release earlier in the day of Soviet dissident Anatoly Shcharansky, Reagan said he "talked at great length about human rights" with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev at their summit last November. Reagan said he thought there had been an increase in such emigrations since then, and added, "I hope that this is a begin­ning sign ofwhat's going to take place." 
On another foreign policy issue, the president said the Uninted States' only involvement in the downfall ofHaitian President-for-Life Jean Claude Duvalier was in "providing an airplane" to fly him into exile in France. He said Duvalier did not seek advice about his departure, and the United States offered none. 
Reagan: U.S. neutral 
. 
in Philippine elections 
By TRACY MCCLOSKEY 
News Staff 

Sl.7 million is the goal of Saint Mary's newest extension of its development office, the phone/mail program. 
The phone/mail program, a part of the College's EXCEL fundraising program, contacts alumnae, family and friends ofSaint Mary's asking for monetiry contributions. The con­tributions will be applied towards a goal of S 1.125 million, set by the Na­tional Endowment for the Humanities. This goal must be reached in order for the government to supplement the EXCEL program with S325,000. 
The money will be used to es­tablish an endowment chair in the Humanistic Studies department as 


0 Asb Wednesday Lituray Wed., February 12th, ~PM Saaed Heart Church li~Y. Jiicbud F6rD~r CSC. Pr~sidiDI 
0 Prayer Viall lor Peace icter Ash Wednesday Mass Lady Chapel, SHC until... 
0 Conclusion ol Peace Viail Friday, Feb. l-ith, 12:15pm .Lady Chapel, SHC 
SUMMER PROGRAMS ND •SMC STUDENTS 
LONDON 

:. ROME
May 21.June 20 ll!2l ,~ June 15-July 14 r,..,.,••lrelaad • • r,..,.,••FNace Sco"-ad a FNace G.,...,a S_,aerfaad Co•,..•• Ia Biol0f111. a........Hlato,.,. ,,.. M..k:. SocloiOflll. aad Thea.,._ 
Informational Meeting Feb. 17 
PASSPORT PHOTOS AVAILABLE 
349 Madaleva Hall, SMC, at 7 p.m. Preufoua student. and teachera wfll be present to answer queatfons. 
For further Into. call Profeuor A.R. Black at x4460 
. ,.. at 272·3726 
well as to promote faculty enrich­ment, according to Martha Hewitt, director of the program. 
The phone/mail program was started on August 26, 1985 by the Office of College Relations, headed by Lawrence Durance and Anne Reed, vice president and assistant vice president for College relations. A professional fundraising firm, In­stitutional Development Counsel, was hired by Saint Mary's to staff the program directed by Hewitt. 
While the Development Office contacts donors who have previosly contributed monetary amounts greater than S500, the phone/mail program contacts those who have given under S500. $659,471 has been collected so far. The program expects to reach approximately 20,000 alumnae, family and friends, according to Hewitt. 


WED.-Enjoy some t:fltJIt.., with 
~lBlLlYJIIt~~~ 

and relax with $1 Ice Teas! 
Thurs.-Southern Comfort Great 
Shooters contest-win a chance for an all expense paid trip to New York!! Serving SLAM DUNK specials! 
FRL-Lunch: Buy any sandwich or Pizza I and get Nachos for 75c! Night: Happy Valentine's Day also...St. Paull Specialslll 
SAT.-D.J. Dance...all students come.1 
~ 

FOR CLUB RENTALS CALL: BRYAN DEDRICK 283-1089 239-7521 
"The program is well ahead of its projected goal," said Hewitt. "We are enthusiastic about the goal being met." 
The phone/mail office, located in Room 303 Haggar College Center, presently employs 41 student workers, 16 as phone operators and 25 as clerical workers. Forty new workers are presently being trained for positions. Applications for jobs in the phone/mail program are taken through the financial aid office. 
The office is temporary and will be contacting alumnae through November of 1986. Hewitt said that the program will be in operation over the summer and needs student workers. 
The phone/mail office is open from 6 to 10 p.m. Monday through Thursday and occasionally during the day. 




~i~~~_()__l_._Jl__t_________________w_e_d_ne-sd-ay,-Fe-bru-~--1-2,1_9_86--p-ag--eS 
Sexism of confessional 
•


turning women away 
Last month, in the New York Times "Hers" column, writer and poet Katha Pollitt ruminated on why It Is that women are psyc­hotherapy's best customers. Women resort to therapy, she says, because "while they per­form for men a variety of therapeutic tasks, drawing out their feelings, acting as a sound­ing board for their Ideas and anxieties, offer­ing support and encouragement and clever suggestions . . . most men do not return the favor." So women have to pay for professional help. The therapy session, she continues, provides a woman with an opportunity to talk about herself tn a sustained, Intimate way; in this setting she has a "sense of being at the center of her own life rather than at the perip­hery of the lives ofothers." 
Ann Pettifer 
guest column 
Reading this led me to some ruminations of . my own. It occurred to me that the 
therapeutic encounter Is the obvious, con­
structive alternative to confession, Roman­
style, for Catholic women. Countless women 
In the Church today will not touch confession 
with a ten-foot barge pole. While the reasons 
for this repudiation vary, there Is a common 
denominator; the experience is humiliating, 
Ineluctably so, given that women are required 
to confess to men who control the sacrament. 
Sometime during the 1970s, "New Black­
friars," the journal of the Oxford Dominicans, 
published the findings of a study that had 
taken place over several years. A number of 
young men, bound for the priesthood, had 
been observed in their pre-seminary year, 
through seminary and well into their first 
parish assignment. 
The results were predictable and dishear­
tening. Virtually all the men admitted that 
their seminary preparation and the ex­
perience of priesthood had not fitted them to 
deal effectively with women. No matter how 
secure they felt about their vocation, the 
message that women were a constant threat to 
that vocation had been successfully trans­
mitted throughout their seminary years. 
Naturally, the poor chaps admitted to 
feeling awkward in the presence of women 
and miserable about their embarrassment 
when confronted with delicate female 
psycho-sexual problems. I remember an old 
friend telling me how, when he studied for the 
priesthood in Rome, lectures on moral theol­
ogy and sexuality were preceded by the light­
ing of candles on either side of the lecturn. 
Clearly an attempt to ritually exorcise the sub­
ject matter. 
While women cannot administer (or help 
redesign) the sacrament of penance, women 
will continue to be shun-changed; the 
psycho-therapeutic alternative would go a 
Doonesbury 
long way towards cutting this particular Gor­dian knot. The benefits oftherapy over confes­sion are incomparable, chiefly because professional therapy is at the service of the client while confession must conform to the strictures of Canon Law which, of course, women had no hand in drawing up. 
One of my favorite heretics, Wyclif, back in the 14th century, wondered out loud if aural confession would not degenerate into an in­strument of clerical control. It did. For this and other speculations, Wyclif was con­demned posthumously; his skeleton was exhumed and burnt by pyromaniacs acting on orders from the Holy Office. 
Sexism is not my only cavil with confession. While I am a firm believer in the propinquity of evil (how else do we account for our present foreign policy in Central America and South Africa?} and a human predisposition to sin, I am not at all sure that the traditional form of the Catholic penitential rite grapples with either very successfully. The "mea culpa" does not acknowledge social sin (starting with inequalities In the Church) nor does it convey any sense of how the individual has been injured by a selfish, aggressive society or by neurotic family patterns. After all, we make amends more quickly when we realize that the muddle in our lives is not entirely self­inflicted. 
The story ofJesus' rescue of the adulterous woman is instructive on this point. I have heard it argued that Jesus dealt courteously and gently with this woman because he situated her sin in the context of the harshly patriarchal sociey where the exploitation of women was commonplace. Jesus saw this poor lady more as victim than harlot. 
I would like to see this story act as a clarion call to Catholic women to get off their cal­loused knees, to stop breast-beating and to concentrate, for the duration, on how they have been sinned against. Then comes the acknowledgement that confession keeps them spiritually and psychologically infantile, which in turn permits their exclusion from responsibility in the Church and in secular society. 
The next step is the therapist's office, where they will be offered a chair and work on self­esteem begins. They will learn that self­respecting persons do not get sat upon nor do. they tolerate gratuitous insults from politicians and prelates. Next time Donald Regan tells us that we are not up to grasping geopolitical issues, as he did at Geneva, we will send a message with our ballots to Foggy Bottom. 
One final thought. Love of God and love of neighbor begins with love of self; this is a foundational teaching in our Christian tradi­tion. In all my years on the other side of the grille, I was never once challenged by this simple, life-enhancing idea. 
Ann Pettifer is a Notre Dame alumna. 


Saint Mary's students should take initiative 
Everyone has a personal definition of~at a student leader should be. At Saint 
Mary's, the role of the student body pj'esident and vice presidents has included 
listening, understanding, and responding, according to student body presiden­
tial candidate Jeanne Heller. 
In this role, individual student leaders at Saint Mary's have performed well in 
the recent past. The criticisms and comments of students concerning student 
life almost always are taken into consideration. Seemingly small but Important 
issues, such as changes in weekend lunch hours, revisions in the parietals policy, 
or signs in the tunnels, result from the efforts ofstudent government listening to 
what the students want changed on campus. 
Student government also has been effective in this role. But there is always 
room for expansion. That is, if the students want an expanded role for student 
government. 
Students.should want to expand upon the base ofa job well done by past and 
current student leaders. But the fact that unopposed student body races have 
become the rule, rather than the exception, cannot be ignored. 
The candidate for vice president for student affairs, Sarah Cook, attributed lack of candidates to the amount of time needed to devote to top student government positions. While this may be a factor, the problem may lie in a defeatist attitude ofmany students. Since candidates for student body president and vice presidents are usually students with extensive student government experience, their election usually is assured by the time they run. Other stu­dents, afraid of losing before they even begin, may not feel the effort is worth their while. 
Lack of opposition does not mean the present candidates will not perform well. Heller, Cook, and vice presidential candidate for academic affairs and Col­lege relations, Betsy Burke, have the experience needed for the jobs. Many of their plans for the year, such as utilizing the Haggar College Center and a self­awareness week are interesting and worthwhile. 
Other goals, however, seem old-hat or hazy, such as the role of the Student Academic Council for next year. Student government needs to take some ofthe time it gives to social activities and devote it to academics. Faculty-student inter­action needs to be built on, and student government needs to utilize the Student Academic Council much more than it has in the past, for input on curriculum and course changes. 
Lack of competition can promote stagnation in any organization. While the present candidates are committed and qualified for the jobs they are seeking, the contributions and participation ofothers can make their roles more interesting and bring out fresh issues to be examined. 
Top student government positions at the College currently are filled by a few dedicated students whose ranks need to be expanded. 
Sain( Mary's students need to look at what student government is doing for them, and more importantly, what they can do for student government. 
The ball. is,in the students' court. 
-The Observer 
Viewpoint Policy 


• 
All letters to the editor submitted to The Observer become the propeny ofThe Ob­server. Letters must be typed, no longer than 250 words and signed by the author. The Observer reserves the right to edit all material received. 

• 
Commentaries in The Observer do not necessarily reflect the opinions ofThe Ob­server. 


Garry Trudeau 
• 
Guest columns may not respond directly to previous commentaries appear­ing in The Observer and may not exceed 700words. 

• 
The Observer encourages commen­taries from all members ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 




Quote of the day 
"With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, .. and cherish a just and lasting peace among our­selves, and with all nations." 
Abraham Lincoln (/809-1865) Second Inaugural Address, 1865 


Editorial Board Operations Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
MIUIIIQing Editor .................................Amy Stephan Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ............................................. Frank Lipo Advertising Manager .............................Jim Hagan 
The Observel' IS the independent newspapel' published by the students of the Umversity of 
News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Advertising Manager ....... ............ Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not neceeaarily reflect the pol1cies of the 
Saint Mllr)l's Execu•ve Editor ........ Th81'esa Guarino Systems Manager...... ... Mark 8. Johnson 
adm1n1stralion of etthel' institution. The news is reported aa accurately and objedively aa pos­
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Production Manager ....................... John A. Men nell 
Sible. Uns1gned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy
lanes. tenens and the Inside Column present the views of their author11. Column space is 
Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy 
ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on 
Photography Editor ......................... Petel' C. Laches campus. through lenef'S, is encoul'llged. Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf Founded November 3, 1966 


Accent 
Wednesday, February 12,1986 -page 6 
The truth about fiction 


r r 
r KIMBERLY TRENNER r 
features writer 

,... 
F 
lction, n. Any literary work portraying
~ imaginary characters and events, as a novel, play, etc. 
This definition is the one given in Webster's New 20th Century Dictionary. Courses teaching the art offiction, en­couraging students to write their own stories and plays, can be defined asftctton classes. 

Fiction writing classes are available at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Notre Dame's department ofEnglish offers three fiction writing classes, taught by Dr. Sonia Gernes and Dr. William O'Rourke. The American studies department also offers a class, which is taught by Dr. Elizabeth Christman. At Saint Mary's, a creative writing class is offered, which is taught by Dr. Max Westler. 
Teaching a fiction writing course can be approached in several different ways. "My philosophy as a teacher is that I cannot teach people to create," said Gernes. "I can, however, teach them about the craft." 
Gernes has developed four steps which she uses to teach writing. Gernes first teaches students the basic elements ofthe craft, things like plot and audience. The other three steps include putting students in touch with their own creativity, provid­ing feedback and a feedback group for students, and teaching students how to be critics and to be judges oftheir own work. 
Christman approaches her class a little differently. She has her students write under a pen name for the first halfofthe course. Ofthis approach Christman said, "Students can write more freely. There is no pressure because I won't judge them from their performance in other classes." 
Christman analyzes her students' stories with the class to pick out the techniques they have used She also does one or two ofthe assignments herselfand has her students critique them. 
"My course is run like a workshop," said Westler. "The students write something, then come in and learn how to make it better." 
Fiction writing classes differ from both expository and newswriting classes. "Expository and news deal with the realm offact; fiction deals with the realm of imagination," said Gernes. "They both convey truths but they do so by different methods." 

O'Rourke sees newswriting as writing 
with more ofa formula. ''You can't fall 
back on fiction, you have to synthesi.ze it 
to make sense," he said. 
The narrative skills taught in fiction 
writing classes are beneficial not only for 
those who wish to become writers, but 
also for those in business, communica­
tions and pre-professional majors. 
"Students come to this class to have 
their writing improved," said O'Rourke. 
"They learn how to judge, to synthesize and to portray reality, all ofthose skills which the business world wants," he said. "Due to the growth ofthe service industry good writing and speaking skills are becoming a necessity." 
"You can't compare this skill with accounting," Christman said. "Writing skills are important, however, in the fields ofpublicity, advertising, and public relations." 
Christman stressed the need for a good imagination in the business world. "Business trends are the result ofone with a good imagination," she said. 
Imagination and advertising go hand in hand. "Commercials are full offictional scenes and people, they are little plays," said Christman. 
Gernes pointed out that students who take writing classes are more appreciative readers. Quoting Virginia Woolf, she said, "Perhaps the quickest way to understand the elements ofwhat a novelist is doing is not to read, but to write, to make your own experiment with the dangers and difficulties ofwords." 
For those in the pre-professional field, especially for those going into law, a fiction class can be very helpful. A law school student once told Gernes that he took the class because he needed to know how to have precision with words. 
Students take fiction writing classes for a variety ofreasons. "The students in my classes vary," said Westler. "Some want to get professional, some are curious, others just take the course. It has a different appeal for everyone," he said. 
Rudy Brandl, a junior American studies major, is taking the class more for per­sonal than professional reasons. "I like creative writing," said Brandl. "I took the class to have some fun and to write some stories." 

SMC host of ECCO! 
Spedal to The Observer 
T 
he Ensemble Company ofCincinnati 
Opera (ECCO!)will perform in 

O'l.aughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's this 
Thursday at 8 p.m. Admission is free and 
open to the public. 
Under the direction ofByron Dean 

Ryan, ECCO! will present several selec­
tions from musical theater, operetta and 
opera. The concert will also include a 
one-act dramatic opera, "Slow Dusk," 
written and composed by Carlisle Floyd. 
Concerts ­

Ensemble Company .::=:; ot Cincinnati Opera ~ 
Opera, ECCO! was formed in 1980 as the culmination ofthe first five years of Cincinnati Opera's Educational/Outreach Program. Since that time, ECCO! has performed for over 300,000 students and adults throughout Ohio, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. 
ECCO! consists ofsix singers and an artistic staff chosen from throughout the 
U.S. The singers have an impressive list of credentials and strong musical back­grounds. 
Soprano Cecelia Wasson, who plays Sadie in"Slow Dusk" is a native ofSouth Carolina and debuts with ECCO! this season after having been a chorus member of the Cin­cinnati Opera. Tenor Richard Bloc­
•••••••••••••••••• her plays Micah in the opera and The opera is set in the sandhills ofthe was a member of the 1985 Cincin­Carolinas and depicts the star-crossed nati Opera Young American Artist Program. In this capacity he per­
love ofSadie and Micah. The romance formed the role ofLuiz in Cincin­
appeals to adult, college and high school nati Opera's Summer Festival
audiences alike. production of'"The Gondoliers." 
"I don't want to be a writer," said Notre Dame sophomore Maria Gerace. Gerace is taking the course because she feels that "the best way to understand literature is to try to produce it." Gerace plans to teach at the secondary level in the future. 
''Perhaps the 
quickest way to understand the elements of what a novelist is doing is not to read, 
but to write, to 
make your own 
experiment with 
the dangers and 
difficulties of 
words.'' 
Virginia Woolf 

Tom Daley, an English major, feels that the skills he is learning would be tough to use in any field. "I can't see where it would be useful except ifyou were writing a book," said Daley. "It's fun work ifyou enjoy it," he added. 
The Near Side 

The professors who teach these fiction writing courses are well qualified for the job, as they are all writers and/or poets themselves. Westler attended Columbia University and studied contemporary literature. He started out writing fiction but he now writes mostly poetry. 
Gernes has had published "The Way to St. Ives" by Scribner's in 1982, along with three or four short stories and a book of poetry. 
O'Rourke has written four books and is about to publish his fifth, a novel called "Criminal Tendencies." His other works include: "The Harrisburg Seven and the New Catholic Left," "The Meekness of Isaac," the anthology "On the job," and "Idle Hands." O'Rourke graduated from Columbia University in 1968 with an MFA (Master ofFine Arts degree) and then went on to the Fine Arts Work Center for a winter residency with other writers and painters. At the age of 28, after publishing his first novel, O'Rourke began teaching. 
Christman, also a novelist, has published "A Nice Italian Girl," "Flesh and Spirit," and "A Broken Family." 
Although none of their former students are famous, many have had their share of success since graduating. A good number have gone on to receive MFA's, and some have had their works published in magazines and journals. Askold Melnyc­zuk, a former student ofO'Rourke's and a poet, went on to become the founding editor of"The Agni Review," a biannual literary magazine. 
Ifyou are creative, enjoy writing or if you want to sharpen those much needed writing skills, perhaps a fiction writing class just may be for you. Who knows, maybeyou could become the next F. Scott Fitzgerald or Virginia Woolf. All of the very best writers had to start some­where. 
Mark Weimholt 

The Observer 
Wednesday, February 12,1986 -page 7 

Sports Briefs 
Notre Dame remains 14th inAP poll 
RALEIGH, N.C. · While Notre Dame remained ranked In the 14th position, North Carolina State has finally joined three other Atlantic Coast Conference teams in the AP 
•
Top 20, but it's not the ranking that gratifies Coach Jim Valvano, It's the 
• 
way his teatn has been playing. 
•
•
•
The Wolfpack, now 17-6, Is 

•
ranked I7th in the latest poll after a shaky start. They made it back after 
• 
• ~ 
nationally televised non-conference wins against Kentucky and Louis­ville, the latter a 76-64 decision 
• 
Saturday. 
•' 
N.C. State, which must still face the top ACC teams and eighth· ranked Oklahoma, didn't expect as much after a loss to Florida State that 
left it at 3·3. 
North Carolina remained the un­animous No. I team in The As· sociated Press basketball poll with Duke No.2. For neighboring North Carolina State, it was the first entry in the Top Twenty since the second week ofthe season. 
The Tar Heels have been first In every poll since the season began. 
Synchronized swimmers are asked to attend an organizational meeting tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. in the classroom of the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Anyone interested is welcome to attend. For more Information call 283-5983.-The Observer 
A campus tug-of-war contest 1s being or­ganized by the ND Promotions Dept. and Lee Jeans. Dormitory and class competitions will be held. Interested groups should begin to assemble teams. For more Information call Kevin Lennon at 239­6440. · The Observer 
An interhall track meet will be held by the NVA on Wednesday, Feb. 19. For more Information call NVA.-The Obser­ver 
Weekend group rentals for the Rolfs Aquatic Center are now available through the NVAfor ND and SMC groups. For details and rates call NVAat 239-5100. ·The Observer 
The NVA Century Club will give you a free t-shlrt just for working out. Pick any activity and fill out a pledge card at the NVA office In the ACC. When you reach your self-proclaimed goal you can redeem your log book for the free shirt. For more informa­tion call NVA. -The Obsen1er 
Michael Ray Richardson of the NBA's New Jer­sey Nets was disiplined yesterday for missing Monday's practice and was sent for a drug test on which the fate of his often brilliant but cocaine-plagued career will ride. If the test turns up positive, it would be a third offense, meaning that he would be banned for life from the NBA, though he would have the option to appeal the ruling. 
·AP 

Upsets in the NBA last night included the Sacramento Kings' 105-100 victory over the Boston Celtics and the Golden State Warriors' 137-113 defeat of the L.A. Lakers. The losses dropped the league-leading Celtics' record to 38-9 while the Lakers fell to 37-12 on the season. ·AP 
In Big Eight Conference basketballwt night eighth-ranked Oklahoma defeated Kansas State, 85-77, led by forward Darryl Kennedy's 32 points and 15 rebounds. Danny Man­ning of Kansas scored 27 points as third-ranked Kansas stampeded past Missouri, 100-66. The Jayhawks are now 23·3 and 8-1 in the conference. ·AP 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor ofLafortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every briefmust Include the phone number ofthe person submitting it. ·The Observer 
The Obsen•er :'liotrc: Dame: offin:. locatc:d on the: third floor of Lafortunt· Student Cc:ntc:r. atTt:pts das,ifi<"d ad\"t:rli,in~ from<) a.m. until_. p m .. \Iunday throu~h friday The Obserr•er Saint \lar,·'s offi<:t·. lot·att·d on tht· third floor of Ha~11ar Colle~<· Ct"ntt"r. a<Tt·pts da,sifi<·ds from 11 ..~0 p m until .~ p m. \ton· day thou~h Frida\ lkadlint: for nt·xt·da\ das"fit:d' i' .~ p m ...II da"ifit:d' mu't ht· prt"patd. l"llha in pt:r,on or h\ mail <.harK<"" I 0 n·n" pt·r fht" •·harat··



Classifieds 
u:rs t:r da\·. 
NOTICES 
Typtng Avllleble 287-4082 
GOVERNMENT J08S. 
$18,040.$59.230/yr. Now Hlrtng. 
Cel 1105-887·8000 Ext R·8834 fOf cur­
rentrecM<II Mat 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 
2J4.11117. 
IUSINEU EXPREII, INC. Wonlpr-'nt and typing 212-a21 
EXPI!IIT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MM.COKI!R, 2»-7001. 
PfiO.TYPI! "-"-·-......,., cl•
...a-.IIUdent ......... 217·tla3. 
ATTN: ITUDI!NT11 Dolor• Francia typing a.vlce phone number ch~ 277-8131 
THE ST. FRANCIS SHOPPE hll great gifta fOf VALENTINE'S DAYI Open 10.5. Mon-S.t Blhlnd Fatime Retreat Center. 
LOST/FOUND I 
REWARD OFFERED. lloet my glaaee 1 week 11Q0 It WM problbly In CU8hlng, O'ShiiQ, Of Wuhlngton Hill. If you have round them pi-give me 1 Clllat3046. Th•""*· Blinder-than-a-bat. 
WERE YOU IN THE BOOKSTORE THURSDAY, 2/6? IF SO, DID YOU HAP­PEN TO ACCIDENTLY PICK UP A BL4CK FOLDER FillED WITH HAND­OUTS FOR All MY CLASSES.AND A GREEN NOTEBOOK WITH NOTES FOR THOSE SAME CLASSES? PLEASE CALL 4029. OR DROP THEM ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF 233 FARLEY 
LOST: Pair of wire rim g-In black cue on Fri. 31 Of Sat. 1. If found, pleue cal272-3823 Of 277-7596. 
Due to my ..,.......n...'"(l'd hare to think 10rneooe atole them). I loet my brown Nf­tlng glovea at the new pool locker room lut week. Pleue call 3810 If you have found them. Thanki.God wiN love you fOf it. 
LOST: Gold necklace with 1 aou In a heart. aomewhere near NOfth Dining Hll. lt'o very lmpOflant to mel If found, ,._ call Kym, 2147. 
LOST: NAVY BLUE LADIES' COAT. MIS­TAKENLY TAKEN AT TRI-MIL BAll. PLEASE CAll 2114-5532. 
FOUND: Set of keya and a.Jingo 11 ACC trad< on Sunday. Cll 284-3010 to cllim. 
LOST: MEN'S N.D. GOLD RING with lni­111111 T.A.D. In men'o room on 111 floor Stepan Chemlatry Building (nOfth aide). PI-call 3556 
FOR RENT 
Semi-fumllhed houae good neighbor· hood lftar 4. 255-3884/277-3804. 
ND-SMC Studenta. Safe, Secure houM avlltable fOf next Ill. 4BR Fur­nilhed,lnaulated.GrMt Loca­tion,Reaponaive t..ndlord. Groupa ol4 Of 
5. fOf more Info call Geoff at 288 7276. 
2-bdnn. apt. Call272-4613. 
WANTED 
OVERSEAS Joaa..lummer, yr.rouncl. Europe, I.Amer., Auantl8, Alii. All ftlldl. 1800-2000 mo. ~ng. F,.. Into. Wrtta IJC, PO .. 112-lN-4, c-dllllllr, CA 112125. 
LOOKING FOR A CAREER We have found In the put that college atudenta and graduate• excel In our In· dUitry becauM they are ambltioua and goal oriented. National recreation­company Ia looking fOf 1 few good people ro 111111 our 1986 ..,_ u...,. High Income potential-excellent opportunity fOf ad­vancement. Cll Mr. Steveneon 11 616­695-3873. 
Rldera needed to BUFFAL0.2/14·2/16.Call Mark ar1728. 
need rieler11 to Pitta. thla weekend call John xl739 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MADISON, WISC. 2/14 • 2/17 CAll LISA 284-4415 
FOR SALE 
fOf aile-beautiful rondo In Som11t11 Square Eut. $79,900 Clllt Tina Mark 674­
6678. 

Macintoah Syatem !Of SALE Great Deal !I CIIJ1m1097 
TICKETS 
DESPERATELY NEED 1 DAYTON TICKET (STUDENT OR GA). CALL TOM 1226. 
Week-end 11 BOYNE MT. $1151nciudea; 
trana.,2 nights lodge,2 day 1111,3 meata. fun. Clll277-0767 Need GAa fOf Depaul Of Dayton gamea. Cell Chad 3884. 
0-ltely need 4-8 atud & GA tix to Dayton game. PI-call Amy llx1296 if you have any fOf life & I'M be fOfever grateful to you. 
Need 2 GA'a fOf DePaul Mike 3347 
Need Gaa fOf Depaul game call Jell 2248 
PauNna Porizkova and Elle Macpheraon wiH do anything fOf 2 Ga'a !Of the Dayton game. call John 112180 
PI-hetpltl Need one, )uat o"" DePaul atudent tickellt Will pey $$. Friend driving many mllal fOf game. Call Tracy 4241. 
PERSONALS 
What'a It Hke to ckown? People wf>o have bien throuQh almoar-drownlnQ aay lt'a not 10 bad; gera kind ol peeceful atrer 1 wf>lle, they aay. A lot ol people have bHn near-deed and revived. Dy/rtQ'I the maar bHuHiul momenrln Nvlng, they re/1 Ul, and their lear ol death Ia gone. 
-Richard Bach. Thallrldgl Acroaa Fcnv• 
No p4QOn ever Ia 10 hetpl... u the man In whom joy and mlaery lleep rom· forlabty together. 
No phyalclan can give health and happineN to the men who en)oya hie af­fliction. FOf auch a man health and happl­n-are always conlrldlctpry. 
• calvin MIHer, Thaat...., 
P.l.: Thankl fOf the vote ol confidence. you won't regret it .. 
T.S. 
OAR HOUSE: COLD lEER I UOUOR. CARRY OUT TO I A.M. U.l. 31 N., 1 ILOCK lOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Loving Catholic couple -nllto lldopt 
an Infant. II you know olanyona who Ia conlldaflng plllclng 1 child lor adop­tion, plaMa Clll collact (217) 1417-a3711 811•7p.m. 
SMC-ND SUMMER PROGRAMS. LONDON. IRELAND, SCOTLAND, PARIS (MAY 21· JUNE 20). PARIS, GERMANY, SWITZ, ROME (JUNE 15­JULY 14). COURSES IN BIO, BUEC. HIST, MUSIC, SOC, ITALIAN. MEETING FEB 17,7:00 AM 348 MADELEVA. FOR INFO CAll PROF. A.A. BL4CK 284· 4460 OR 272-3726. 
YOUNG TRAVELLERS NEWILETTERI lncludea:800 no., travel partner aervlce;featuree on exotic OVEIIIIEAI budget travel, wOfk, atudyt Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N.. P.O. Box 3887, New Haven. CT. 06525 
I want to-All ol YOU Ill Tlmelllcl data to be annou.-6-HIPPY Hour piiM In ~ I avanlng .,..,. lormullllntti"M be ~.. MD 
tornorrow-1 REALLY lllld -~ and • wild man Ill ·Ill Call DIH2211or mcnln1Dn11811on lllllor Dllll 
FREE COUPONiln 1M rallowPIIM of the Clmpua Talaphona Dlractory. UN lham todlyl 
Thank you St. Jude ·EM 
Thank you St. Jude lor watching over me and my famUy. -PAG 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 
Ferdinand, AJu and llllck. My father Ia back. Miranda 
SMC SEXUALITY EDUCATION COUNCIL· PROTECT YOURSELF AND OTHERS. KNOW YOUR BODY'S WAR· NING SIGNS (HERPES, URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS, ETC.) WEDNEs­DAY, FEBRUARY 12, 7:00 P.M. STAPLETON LOUNGE DR. MARK SAN· DOCK M.D. 
Hungry? Cell YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Houra: 5pm-12am Monday·Thu...tay; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
watch fOf thelrilh aurler watch fOf the iriah surfer watch for thelrflh aurfer 
ATTENTION IENIORI: A rep<Menlltive from VIDA Volunteera of Pueblo, CO, wiM be on campua on Thursday, Feb. 13 In the Library Con­courwe to apeak with atudenta intereeted In POST GRADUATE VOLUNTEER SERVICE OPPOifTUNITIEI. FOf mOfe Into.. call the esc. 239-5293. 
Paren18 w.nt to -rna lllrut my etull In the Dancing lrteh routine at 1M March 5, Deyron B·ball Qlme. Naecl 5 tlckall. C8ll rna at 14114. 
75 TO ITAY AUVE 
JOHNNY NEEDI A NEW P~R OF SHOES COULD MAKE THE DIF· FERENCE. 
I Want To Meet All Of YOU II Time And Date To Be Announced: Happy Hour Plana In Progreaa And Evening Plana Formulating. I'LL Be Wearing RED Tom­morrow. I Really Need Excitement And A Wild Manit ·Di. Cal 239-5225 fOf More lnfOfmation Ask FOf Oil 
SMC FRESHMEN SKI TRIP 
FEB. 15TH 
8-4 Sign Up AI SMC 6-9 In Any Dorm $5 Non· Refundable Depoeit Required NO F~enda AreWelcomel 
Haw.n18-angal A rich alum needl 2 tickets (atudent Of GA) for the Dayton game In March. He'a an engin-wiling to pay big buckl to aee ua pound the Flyeralnto the court! 
Call MllrY Ellen at 283-3855 Of leave a meuage 81239-5303. 
THE WOIID OF THE WEEK: 
NOVATION 

YES,YES.YES-MATI 
PANGBORN INVITES 01 TO BE OUR VALENTINE'S QUEENif WE LOVE YOU 
I'M STill INTERESTED-PAUL 
SOPHOMORES : Bowling night at Belcon Bowl. Thla Thur8day night, leaving from llbrllr)' circle 11 8:30, bowling beglna 119:00. Colt II $2.75. lnciudaa two gamM and ahoea. Any ? Of need a ride, call239-5225. 
Take your Valantine to Florida Itt Tai<e your Vllentine to Florida Itt Win 1 trip 11 the MS St Valentine'• Day Dance Friday 
8:30 to 1:00AM Stepan Center Ftowera to the nm 100 glrta Itt Dancing • Food • Gamee Admiulon $3 drectly toMS 
Dlatop teaaing ua-Are you llrioua? 3-N 
Dillon proclalma Nationll 01-Dey-The Men 
BECCA '"WIIdwoman" CUSSEN tuma a legal 21 today. She'l accepting INiclt birthday wllhea ar x4011. ln&.~~perienced men need not apply. 
RAMBEAR STILL UVEIIII 
HEY ED TRIFONEI Call Your Coulin-She Doeen'T Have Your New Phone Number! 
I Need A Ride To Chlcego Thil Friday. It Going That Way PI-Call 284-5081 After 12pm 
PETE HEBERT--GUS YOU WERE IN HOLY CROSS SAT. NIGHT AND CAUGHT MY EYE, I WANTED TO SPEAK BUT I WAS TOO SHY. YOU TAUGHT ME A WAVE I WALKED YOU TO THE DOOR I HAD MY CHANCE BUT NOT ANY MORE. I'M EASY TO FIND BUT YOU'll HAVE TO LOOK. MY NAME'S LIKE A GROCERY STORE AND I'M IN THE BOOKI··ALICE 
YO Shwa. Ther-. and especially 
Frankie-I'm 10 '"ronda you" 11-thankl '"' 
a hltarioua Saturday evening! E""*­
ment llorlee. experienced female phot01t 
raphera, mala wine experta, lch, ICh, 
ICh· (excuaa my atoma). Let'a do It rogaln 
this weekend! Cath 
Word• ro Hve by: 
Novation 
Privity 
llaplavln 

Come See FALSTAFF & HAL In Chlcego on Feb.20 Tlcketa $20.00 In 309 O'ShiiQ. 
Happy birthday CORINNE PERINII What a fitting dly fOf your 2111 blrthdlyl I'm glad you're back-NO wun't the aame without you. Love, Shel 
FREE FOOO It FREE ENTERTMIN· MENT It Zlhm Colfee Houaa Tonight. 9:30-11:30 In Zlhm'a llaaarnant Everyone Invited I 
Stormtroopera ol Delth Spell< Engltah Of Die 
FHm Buft? Muaic Lover? Write !Of SCHOLASTICCal239-7419-10 and5 
HEY YOU SEXY COMMUNIST: HAPPY 211LOVE. YOUR CAPITALIST PIG. 
HAPPY 211 MR. B.C.O. LOVE, YOUR HONORARY MARINE 
greg kohl· king ol the boardl 
corky mcgowan 1 man who -not know the meaning of gweeb 
hi nat and land ... you guya 10on 1 per· aon who geta theeeldl cheap 
GOOO LUCK TO THE SUWVAN SCENARIO '871111 SAINT MARY'S NEEDS YOU...from AC at NO... 
QUOTE OF THE DAY: 
Better to be bankrupt ethically than ftnanclroly. 
I thouQhr love wu more or /au 1 Qlve and 18ke. It -m• the more I QIVI the IINIQOI. 
Wtar'a the uae olltylrtQ? M you 111r1a pain, wf>en I needed aunahlne I Q01 rein. 
'"What uglin...rune rampant In our llvM." 
L.ova atlnQ-.1. Gatta 
llAITA JAVA NIGHT Come hang out, drink aome colfee andI• ten to the New Age Mothers with RASTA. Tonight. Bpm upalllraln t..Fortune. 
RAilA JAVA NIGHT Hang out with RASTA and the N-Age Molt!.,.. Tonlght8pm ul)8tllraln Lafortune 
SWINGING SINGLES PARTY. SMC CLUBHOUSE 9-1 AM $2.00 AT THE DOOR. 10 REQUIRED. SPONSERED BY ST. MARY'S SENIOR CLASS. COME FIND YOUR VALENTINE! 
ANN·HAVEABL4ST AT HOME, WE'll MISS YOUI-RESOURCE AND MEt 
POMI, MARLENE IS DEFINITELY ON THE WAllII ·DUZ 
The Observer Wednesday, February 12,1986-page 8 
Q @ -SPORTS WEDNESDAY @ 8 
Notre Dame Men's Basketball Statistics through 2/8/86 
Won 16, Lost 4 
TOP20 
The Top T-nty college *l<et!*! teema
Player G/GS MIN/AVG FG/FGA PCT FT/FTA PCT REB/AVG PF/FO AST BK ST PTS AVG 
in ft.. Aaaoclated Prwa pol, with llrat-plece vot•in parenth-. thlto _,•• recorda Rivers 20/19 665/ 33.2 109/ 250 .436 104/ 132 .787 61/ 3.0 52/ 0 93 1 35 322 16.1 lind total pointe. Pointe baed on 20-1~16­17 etc. Notre Dame ~ .-e
Barlow 19/18 514/ 27.0 104/ 200 .520 60/ 66 .909 99/ 5.2 46/ 2 19 8 14 268 14.1 
• 
italicized.
18 6 23 202 10.1
Royal 20/20 566/ 28.3 58/ 106 .547 86/ 114 .754 96/ 4.8 44/ 1 
• 
Stevenson 20/16 406/ 20.3 69/ 123 .560 27/ 29 .931 46/ 2.3 16/ 0 20 5 8 165 8.2
• Price 19/ 1 344/ 18.1 51/ 102 .500 21/ 30 .700 42/ 2.2 33/ 1 9 5 9 123 6.4 1. No. Cerollna (63) 24-1 1260 Kempton 19/19 415/ 21.8 46/ 87 .528 29/ 40 .725 94/ 4.9 36/ 0 42 6 13 121 6.3 2. Dulce 22-2 1181!
• 
3. Karwu 22-3 1073
Hicks 20/ 5 316/ 15.8 42/ 87 .482 22/ 27 .814 52/ 2.6 21/ 0 31 2 21 106 5.3 
4. Mamphla St. 22-2 1000
•l 
Dolan 20/ 2 444/ 22.2 39/ 70 .557 23/ 33 .696 103/ 5.1 50/ 1 31 6 14 101 5.0 5. GeorglaTech 1fl..4 959
• 
Connor 12/ 0 107/ 8.9 20/ 34 .588 6/ 8 .750 17/ 1.4 13/ 0 5 0 2 46 3.8 6. UNLV 24-2 910 
• 
Voce 14/ 0 124/ 8.8 14/ 29 .482 10/ 15 .666 38/ 2.7 21/ 0 1 6 5 38 2.7 7. St.John'• 23-3 829 
8. Oldahoma 21-2 n2
• 
Smith 10/ 0 49/ 4.9 6/ 16 .375 3/ 4 .750 5/ .5 1/ 0 9 0 3 15 1.5 760
• 
9. Georgetown 1~ Beeuwswaert 12/ 0 74/ 6.1 6/ 13 .461 3/ 6 .500 17/ 1.4 9/ 0 4 0 3 15 1.2 10. Michigan 20-3 726 
Nicgorski 5/ 0 7/ 1.4 3/ 4 .750 0/ 4 0.000 3/ .6 0/ 0 0 0 0 6 1.2 11. Kentucky 20-3 654
t -18-3 5&f
12. ~uae
Peters 71 0 19/ 2.7 2/ 9 .222 1/ 2 .500 5/ .7 0/ 0 1 0 0 5 .7 
13. Bradley 24-1 539 
Team Rebounds 62/ 3.1 111-4 417
14. -De­
•a 
15. UTEP 21-3 328 16-5 316
Notre Dame 20/ 4050/202.5 569/ 1130 .503 395/ 510 .n4 • 740/ 37.0 342/ 5 283 45 150 1533 76.6 16. Indiana 
17. N.C. State 17-6 193
Opponents 20/ 4050/202.5 535/ 1128 .474 219/ 315 .695 • 559/ 27.9 423/ 17 251 60 136 1289 64.4 
18. Alabama 17-4 t86 19. Loultovlle 16-7 163 
• Deadball rebounds not included in totals: Notre Dame 44 , Opponents 22 20. Virginia Tech 18-6 105 

NBA

EaetMI eonr­·AIIMtlc Dlvlelon w L Pet.  - w~eonr-Ill~ Dlvlalon w L Pet.  - 
Beeton  38  9  .809  - Houston  34  16  .680  - 
Phlledetphia  32  18  .640  7.5  Denver  30  21  .568  4.5  
New.lwaey  29  23  .558  11.5  Dallaa  26  22  .542  7  
Wuhington  24  26  .460  15.5  San Antonio  27  26  .509  8.5  
New York  18.  32  .360  21.5  Utah  25  28  .472  10.5  
Centnll Dlvlelon  Sacramento  21  30  .412  13.5  
Milwaukee  33  18  .647  - Peclflc DIYialon  
Atlanta  28  21  .571  4  L.A.lakera  37  12  .755  - 
Detroit  26  25  .510  7  Portland  29  25  .537  10.5  
Cleveland  19  31  .380  13.5  Phoenix  20  29  .406  17  
Chicago  17  34  .333  16  LA. Clippera  19  32  .373  19  
lndana  16  34  .320  16.5  Saattle  18  33  .353  20  
Golden St.  16  37  .302  23  

Tonlaht'a a.­Chicago at Philadelphia New York at Detroit MilwaukH at Indiana DenveratDalu L.A. Lakera at Phoenix 

NHL 
"""'CE OF WAUS COtiFUIENCE Adllme DIYtalon, 
W L T GF QAPta. Montreal 31 20 5 242 168 67 Qullbec 31 20 4 228 190 86 Bu"--o 27 23 5 211 194 59 Beeton 26 23 7 220 204 59 Hartford 26 27 2 223 211 54 
Plllrlck Dlvlalon Phi~·· 38 15 4 232 167 76 Wuhlngton 33 16 4 213 185 70 N.Y. lalandera 27 18 10 225 193 64 Plttabufllh 24 24 6 204 192 54 N.Y.Aangeq 24 26 4 187 187 52 New.lwaey 16 38 2 197 257 34 
CI.MENCE CAIIP8EU. CONFERENCE 
a.nyllle Dvlalon WLTGFQAPta Edmonton 38 13 6 294 230 82 
25 22 8 232 206 56 Vancouver 17 28 8 195 216 42 LoaAngelae 17 31 6 198 269 40 Winnipeg 17 33 6 203 280 40 
Nonla Dlvlalon ChiCIIgO 27 21 8 248 242 82 St. Louia 23 22 8 202 206 54 Mlnneeota 22 24 9 225 219 53 Toronto 15 34 5 207 265 35 Detroit 12 38 5 186 287 29 
~ 

~....,............. 
Chicago 5, Beeton 4 Hartford 4, St. Loula 4 N.Y. llllandera 1, Vancouver 0 Mlnn-4, Toronto2 Edmonton 3, Detroit 2 
LISTS 
Percent ofCollege Foot­ball Scholarship Players Graduating Within Five 
Years 
1985 --Virginia 

--25 of 27 players 
graduated (92.6%) 
1984--Notre Dame --27 of 28 players (96%) --Duke 
--22 of 23 players (95%) 1983 --Notre Dame --23 of 29 players ( 79% ) 1982 -·Notre Dame -.· 26 of 31 players ( 84% ) 1981 --Duke --24 of 28 players ( 86% ) 
ND/SMC Theater announces ... Orchestra Auditions for West-Side Story 
Monday, Feb. 17and Tuesday, Feb.J8 7-9pm Room 308Moreau Hall, SMC 
Needed: Brass, Winds, and Strings Bring a prepared piece You will be asked to sightread something from the show 
The Observer Wednesday, February 12,1986-page 9 
Recruits 
continued/rom page 12 
of 168 passes for 1,334 yards and 15 TDs last season, also rushed 138 times for 934 yards and 21 TDs ... only two losses In his career were in state championship game ... first player from South Carolina to sign with Notre Dame In I 5 years ... named All-American QB by Parade Magazine, All-South by the Orlando Sentinel, and South Carolina player of the year by Scholastic Coach ... Holtz, while head coach at Min­nesota, and Foge Fazio, while head coach at Pitt, had recruited him ... choice came down to ND, Clemson, Auburn, Nonh Carolina, Pitt, or Min­nesota ... has a 2.65 grade-point average in college preparatory courses and scored 640 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (New NCAA college entrance guidelines require a 660 to qualify for competi­tion, so he will retake the SAT March 15} 
john Foley, linebacker, 6-4, 235, St. Rita H.S. (Chicago) ... Considered one of the best prospects in the na­tion and the top prospect in the Windy City ... has 4.5-speed in the 40-yard dash ... recruiting expert Tom lemming calls him, "the most intense high school player I've ever seen." ... final choices were Boston College, Iowa and Southern Cal ... named Chicago high school player of the year last fall by the Chicago Sun-Times and the Chicago Tribune ... friend of long-time Irish assistant coach George Kelly. 
Kevin McShane, defensive end, 
6-4. 225,Jollet Catholic (Chicago) ... 
One of three very early commit­
ments to Notre Dame from the 
Windy City. 
JeffAim, defensive end, 6-6, 230, Carl Sandburg H.S. (Chicago) ... Another big addition f]:om the Chicago area who annouced his in­tention to attend Notre Dame weeks ago. 
Stan Smagala, running back, 5­11, 1 70, St. Laurence H.S. (Chicago) ... Also played wide receiver in high school ... has 4.5-speed In the 40­yarddash. 
jason Cegielski, offensive lineman, 6-3, 250, St. Rita H.S. (Chicago). 
Paul Glonek, defensive lineman, 6-6, 270, St. Laurence H.S. (Chicago). 
Tim Grunhard, offensive lineman, 6-3, 255, St. Laurence H.S. (Chicago). 
Jeff Pearson, offensive lineman, 6-4, 245, St. Laurence H.S. (Chicago). 
John Zaleski, defensive lineman, 6-4, 250, St. Rita (Chicago) ... Also a standout punter for St. Rita. 
Mike Harazln,lineman, 6-5,230, St. Laurence (Chicago). 
Anthony Johnson, linebacker/running back, 6-2, 185, Adams H.S. (South Bend) ... A stan­dout and team leader on both sides of the scrimmage line at Adams. 
Mike Crounse, tackle, 6-4, 225, Union-Enndicott H.S. (New York) ... First-team, aJI-New York State selec­tion at tackle ... choice was narrowed down to Syracuse, Penn State, and Iowa, but Crounse said he had always dreamed of playing at Notre Dame ·becatllle·of "the mys­tique -the Golden Dome on campus." 
Jim Dadiotis, linebacker, 6-4, 228, Colorado. 
Rod West, defensive end, 6-2, 220, Brother Martin H.S. (New Or­leans) ... Three-year staner at Brot­her Martin ... named all-state and defensive most valauble player in New Orleans ... runs a 4.6 40-yard dash. 
Bryan Flannery, defensive lineman, 6-3, 245, St. Edward's H.S. (Lakewood, Ohio) ... Named first­team All-Ohio ... two-year staner on the defensive line ... 4.8 speed in the 40 ... helped team to 9-1 record last season. 
Dean Brown. lineman. 6-4. 260, McKinley H.S. (Canton, Unto) ... Named to aU-state team as both of­fensive and defensive lineman ... helped McKinley to a 12-2 record last season. 
Mike Carrier, defensive back, 6­2, 180, Polytechnic (Long Beach, Calif.) ... Played a major role on a Long Beach Poly defense that didn't allow a touchdown for eight games last season ... visited Penn State last week ... should prove to be a valuable addition to Irish secondary. 
Braxton Banks, fullback, 6-3, 230, California ... a bruising runner who could challenge for playing time in Irish backfield next season. 
Two other players who figure to sign letters-of-intent for Notre Dame today are Patrick Terrell, a wide receiver/defensive back from Florida, and lineman Ted Healy, a Massachusetts product. 

ENGINEERS 
February 26 


SUNDSTRAND ON CAMPUS 
Sundstrand, a leading technology-based company, supplies advanced electrical and mechanical aerospace systems for commercial. business, and military jet aircraft as well as missiles and space applications. 
Sundstrand is a Fortune 500 company headquartered in 
Rockford, Illinois with annual sales of about $1 billion. Through our worldwide network of manufacturi~g a!"d service locations, we apply the latest technologtes tn designing, manufacturing, and marketing our products. 
In addition to openings for graduating engineers, we have a cooperative education program for engineering students. We offer a competitive salary and a solid benefit package including health and dental, educational reimburseme!"t· and a liberal holiday schedule. See us on campus or wnte: 
College Relations Representative Sundstrand Corporation 
4747 Harrison Avenue 
P.O. Box 7002 
Rockford, IL 61125-7002 

An Equal Opportunity Employer 

Boredom 
continuedfrom page 12 
Fordham's Tom Parrota led all 
scorers with 14 points, and Joe 
Paterno, whose brother Bill (a 
former Irish captain) was in atten­
dance) added 1 0 points in the losing 
effort. 
Afterwards, Penders wondered 
about Notre Dame's spot In the 
rankings. 
"They're a very sound team," Penders commented. "They've got the star in David Rivers and a lot of pluses. I can't see how they're not a Top-I 0 team (the Irish are ranked 14th in the latest AP poll). I think Notre Dame is Just a beat behind North Carolina and every bit as good as St. John's. 
"It's hard being an Independent In the Midwest, though, with the press in the East. The Big East has such a lock on things with all the press. I don't see how (Notre Dame) is not a Top-10 team. They lost to Dayton, but they're a good team." 
IRISH ITEMS -Mark Stevenson missed last night's game because ofa case of the flu which put him into the infirmary. . . Donald Royal missc:d the second half because of a hip bruise. Phelps said he hoped both players would be ready for Sun­day's game with Duke. . . Greg Dlngens received a plack at halftime recognizing him as a member of the GTE Academic All-America Football Team. Dingens had 3.75 GPA as a pre-med major. 
Notre Dllme(81) 
Laat Nlght'a R•ulta  M FG-A  FT·A  R  F  p  
Notrl Dllme 81, Fordhem 58  Royal  16  2-3  1-3  5  0  0  
Fordhem (118)  Barlow  19  3-6  4-4  5  3  10  
M FG-A  FT·A  R  F  p  Kempton  20  5-7  o-o  0  1  10  
Parrotta  32  6-8  2-3  2  2  14  Rivers  27  2-8  4-5  5  2  6  
McCormick  25  o-o  1-2  0  3  1  Price  24  4-6  o-o  2  0  6  
Skoko  23  3-5  o-o  3  3  6  Hicks  26  4-7  3-4  3  3  11  
Paterno  32  4-6  2-2  4  3  10  Beeuwsaert  6  1-3  1-2  1  2  3  
Franco  24  3-5  2-3  2  1  6  Peters  2  1-1  1-1  0  0  3  
Brooks  10  1-2  o-o  0  0  2  Smith  9  2-5  1-2  3  0  5  
Banlum  15  1-3  1-2  5  1  3  Connor  14  1-1  o-o  1  1  2  
Williams  11  0.1  o-o  0  0  0  Dolan  16  3-3  7-7  2  1  13  
Robinson  15  2·5  o-o  3  3  4  Voce  12  1-2  1-1  1  0  3  
Jones  6  2-3  4-4  1  2  6  Nicgorske  1  0.1  o-o  0  1  0  
Taylor  5  o-o  2-2  0  0  2  200 29-52 23-29  27  17  81  
200 22-38 14-18  22  18  58  FG Pet.  -.527. FT Pet. • .793. Team  
FG Pet.  -.579. FT Pet.  -.n6. Team  rebounds-1. Turnovers-16. Assists-16 (Kempton 4). Technicala-none.  
rebounds • 2. Turnovers -31. Assists  -7  Halftime-Notre Dame 38, Fordham 22.  
(Paterno 3). Technical&-none.  Officials -Sam Uckiter, John Carr. Sid  
Rodehefter (all MAC). A-11,220.  


·Special StudentI Youth Fares to 
SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Winter Rates to Scandinavia New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip New York to Helsinki from $270 one way Chicago to Copenhagen from $240 one way, $400 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $280 one way, $480 roundtrip and tours design~d especially for students to the SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
Youth and student travel experts for over a decade 17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 
(212) 986-9470 
. Summer Fares Now AvaUable! The Observer Wednesday, February 12,1986-page 10 





Irish fencer Sullivan is intense and undefeated 
By TRISH SULLIVAN 
Sports Writer 
From a fire station in Massachus­settes to the fencing gym in the ACC, sophomore fencer Molly Sullivan has come a long way. 
"When I first started with fencing lessons we had to go anywhere we could find to practice," said Sullivan. "There was the fire station, on a ce­ment fioor of a library and at a leat­her tannery. It made for some interesting practice sessions." 
But it really doesn't matter where Sullivan practices, because one thmg remains consistent. She wins. A former Junior Olympic champion in the under-16 category, Sullivan has participated on numerousJunior World Olympic teams in interesting places such as Lennigrad and Swit­zerland. 
She is currently on her way to anotherJunior Olympics, this one in Minneapolis, Mn., beginnning Febuary 12-15. But the travelling isn't a problem and provides a unique kind ofeducation. 
"Being on the road a lot can get to your studies and wear on you after a while," said the Pasquerilla West resident. "But you learn a lot about yourself and other people around the world." 
Although she probably could have gone anywhere to continue her fen­cing career, she chose Notre Dame for the community atmosphere she felt when she visited. She also felt secure with a "guardian angel'' in Irish head coach Mike DeCicco. 
"Coach DeCicco takes care of me," said Sullivan. "He keeps on me about my fencing and my academics. But I don't mind it. If it weren't for him, I wouldn't be as far along as I am." 
"Molly is a fantastic fencer," said DeCicco. "She has talent that is a joy to coach. And she will go all the way, mark my words. She has the dedica­tion and intensity on the strip. 
"She is stubborn. She will keep trying a move till it works, even if she may give up a few touches on it. The only thing that could screw up her chances is the coaching." 
So far, Sullivan and the coaches seem to be doing pretty well. Cur­rently the women's foilist leads the squad with a perfect slate and the team remains undefeated as well. 
But Sullivan isn't totally satisfied yet. She is shooting for one thing right now. 
"For myself, I would like to make the Olympics, that's the ultimate goal," said Sullivan. "I'm not in­terested in the publicity -obviously fencing is not a sport that grabs the headlines. But I am in it for my per­sonal enjoyment. 
"As far as the team goes, there isn't a better group in the nation. We can do it, if we keep our heads together and fence to our capabilities." 
So if you see Molly Sullivan fen­cingout on the North Quad, don't be too suprised. This feisty competitor is probably getting in some extra fencing practice to help lead the Irish to the top. 
Senior goalie 
Guay is a hard worker 
that's what the Notre Dame student­
By C.W. EHRMAN 
athlete is all about." 

Hockey is in Guay's blood, and he Swoosh! Bam, slap, zing has played goalie all his life. His Playing goalie and guarding the older brother played for the 1984 
net is a crucial position in a game U.S. Olympic hockey team, and is that is anything but delicate. now in the NHL with the Winnipeg Everything from pucks, sticks, and organization. A younger brother bodies take target practice at the may attend Notre Dame next year to masked and padded figure crouched play the spon. alone between the poles of the net. Out on the ice, on a rink that It's a matter of getting banged becomes a war zone, Guay likes around, knocked over, and refusing what he does. to press the panic button. "I play one of the most intense 
The player who fills the position positions on the team," he said. "You for Notre Dame is seniorgoalie Marc always have to have your mind in the 
Sports Writer 
Belles drop two because ofthe flu 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN Belles were Tammye Radke, con­with nine and Pantelleria offered Sports Writer tributing 16 points, and Beth six assists in the loss. Kreher, who added 15 points to "We had some stretches of ex­.the effort. Rachel Bir and Radke cellent basketball at Valpo," said 
While fighting for its health, the each pulled down six rebounds, Wood. "We were only down by ten Saint Mary's basketball team fell to and Radke along with Kris Pan­with 4:20 left to play, but the team Taylor on Saturday and Valparaiso telleria aided the cause by con­started feeling weak. on Monday. tributing four assists each. "It seems as though we've got 
"Our biggest opponent right the whole group battling with the now is the fiu," said Coach Marvin The team's health did not flu. Hopefully we'll start to snap Wood, because about seven of his improve by Monday when it out ofit." team members are battling with travelled to Valparaiso and fell 75-The Belles have a day to sickness. 57. Radke led the Belles with 19 recooperate before they travel to 
The Belles took the road to points and Pantelleria chalked up Franklin on Thursday. Saturday, Taylor, where they were handed a 10 points against the opponent. Saint Mary's will finally be playing 60-46 loss. Leading scorers for the Kreber led the team in rebounds at home against Bethel College. 
Guay. game, and it's physically demanding, 
Irish head coach Lefty Smith and you have to be able to execute. labels him an "interesting young Sometimes you have to go one-on­man," a no-nonsense sort ofguy with one, sometimes five-on-one." an incredible intensity about him. It's all a matter of stopping some 

"The goaltender is one of the high-octane hot shot scorer bent on worst positions for any player in any firing a puck your direction at un­spon to play," said Smith. "And the godly speads with the game on the fact that we're having a tough year line. Such is the stuff a goalie's life is makes it all the tougher on the made of. It can be glorius, yet agoniz­goalie. But Marc is intense and sticks ing at the same time. 
with it." So Guay has taken the good with 
The coach's praise goes beyond the bad and done his time. the ice rink to the classroom. "Marc "He's down to earth," says Smith. is a pre-med major carrying a fine "And he works hard. You have to average, and he has been accepted take your hat off to him, he's that to the (medical) schools he's in-type ofperson." terested in. Now couple that with his devotion and time given to hockey and I think you get a sense of his character. He's a clean kid who lives life between the library and the hockey rink. You have to give him 
Wednesday, Feb.12
credit." 
Guay clearly sees his role on the team. "I'm the type ofguy who leads Ski night at Ski Valley 7pm-1 Opm just by being a senior," said Guay. 
Bus leaves Main Circle
"And being one of the better stu· dents on the team, I show that ath­letics and academics can mix, and 
•  Show ND or SMC student orstaffID ..  
andget a 10" discount  •  
18081 State Road 23  

Tqnight 6:00p.m. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 

~---clip and save ·-----------------""
$2.00 Transportation
plus idI$12.00 Rental and Lift .....,...AUGLEs· DELIVERY HOURS: 272-5455 *
6:00. Midnight 
or 

7'1, NAUGLES50TOayYQRUH 10QRM!f ~ 
$7.25 With your own skis 
MEXICAN KI~H~~ AM~~~~~.~4 ~~~~~EN * 

Taco 1.09 1.69 CUSTOM GRll...l.ED NOT STOCK PIU'D """-... 
Bu.rrlloe Naugleburger 1.99 ~ Bean 1.79 2.49 2 Panies with the works "'-.... 
STILL TIME TO APPLY fOR MEXICO CITY PROGRAM ~'.,.. ::~: ::~: double cheese Jllf' 
Cheeee 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 ~ Make any burrito wet b 50 cents!! 2 Patties with iettuce. ~ 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready few a tomato, mayo dressing "'-... pound of gocxbes! Hamburger 1.19 ~ Nochoo A Cheese 2 Patties wllh pickle. ketchup. 
lt

1 19 
Haw some sauce fa no extta charge to splc~ them mustard. onion
Notre Dame's Mexico City Program offers a unique opportunity 
up that much more. add cheese .20 
to spend a year or a semester studying at Universidad 
Macho Nacho'1 2.19 
DESSERTS
Iberoamericana. Courses in Spanish language and literature, Retried beans. chips, cheese. peppers, mild meat 
sauce, spk:y ween sauce! Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawbmy • Orarlge 'II&._Latin American thought, politics, economics, archeoloqy, 8\...t>om} • Chocolate • Chen\~ • Vanilla • Root Beorr Jllf' 
*

To1tada Grande 3.29 Shokeo 1.09 ""-...
etc., give you the chance to learn and experience this rich (In • shell · wonde>-ful) 
Sundaee 1.49 Jlllllllf"'" culture on the scene. A special course, developed in Rog Plan.. Fudge Brownie .69 lilll... 
1.29 2.89 
Pa•try .69 ,.,...­
cooperation with the Center for Social Concerns, forms the 
To1tada Combo 1.59 2.09 
Fudge Brownie Suftdae 
center of this program and introduces you to Third World Chile Ole' .99 2.39 1.69 * 
Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59
issues in a thoughtful, intelligent manner. DRINK UP! 
Chicken Sandwkh 1.74 2.84 Cold Beverage~Platter Assortment of sauces & side orders 
12 oz.•.64 20 oz.•.79 32 oz.-.94
Want it a spec1al way just order II!
Requirements include completion of application materials, 
Pepsi. Diet Peps>. Root Beor. Mt. Dew Enchilada'• (Platter of 2) Dr Pepper. Welches. Sunkist. l..emooade
2.5 average, 8 in Spanish of Intermediate Level or higher. ** 
Meal · lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 ke Tea, Milk, Orange JuiCe 
F~r further information, pick up brochure and application "Chicken 2.50 
Hoi Beverage• -.47 
p~~ket in foreign Study Proqram~ Office, 420 Administration DINNERS CoHee. Hot Chocolate. Hot Tea 
* 

Building. Coat is eq~ivalent to the average on campus room, •I Enchilada -1 chicken, 1 beef 
•2 Macho Taco SIDE ORDERS 
* 

board and tuition, and includes roundtrip airfare and field 
•3 Meat B-.nuo French Friel trips. •4 Cbeete Burrito A: Taco Retried Bean• .99 ""­
* 

with chill Mace .99 Jllf'
Complete wtlh r-..koxlcan salad, reined beans. chill & 
Nacho Chi.,.
chHse. guacamole. sour cream & a pile of rhlps 
Guaca1110Je Fresh. Fresh. Frnt. .19 
*

Deadlines: february 20 for full year and fall Semester '86; 
.39
Adinrwr With enou!tl k>ft over foe tomonow's LUNCH! 
September 15 for Spring Semester '87. 4.79 .25 
.50 • 

Happy 21st Jo 
Love, Allen 
~ 

...... 
T~,·~..CIJIItS~ 
Near Ironwood ARMIDA KOBEK South Bend, Indiana 48837 (219) 277-2870 
Plus tax on prices · $5.00 mt~ir.1um order ~ 
---------·clipand save··---------~-. 

~4CJtt:JlC3l~---------------------------------------W--ed•n•e~s-d.ay~,-F~e~bru~~~~1~2,~1~9~86~-~pa~g~e~l~l
Bloom County 
Zeto 

WHAPI?YA  I PONT  
IHINK ?  13\JY If.  
Kevin Walsh  
zETo.  rou.Er RlR  

T'OU! J 
ps 
f'.J 
' 
.. 
'' 
~ 
~ 
~ 
,--. 
Campus 
•12:15 
P.M. -Meeting, "Spiritual Roots for Spring, 1986" and "Memento Mori," Gail Man· dell and Muriel Spark, Saint Mary's, Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Center for Spirituality 

•2:30 
P.M.-TaxAssistance Program, Center for Social Concerns Coffee House 

•3:30 
P.M.-Computing Minicourses, New Features of SAS, Part 2: Room 23 Computing Center, Note Bene Word Processing, Part 2: Room 104 Computing Center 

•4:00 
P.M. -Women's Swimming, Notre Dame vs. Saint Mary's, Rockne Pool 

•4:20 
P.M. -CoUoqulum, "Why the Univer­sity Might Be Supersymmetric," Dr. Richard Robinett, University of Massachusetts, Room 118 Nieuwland, Sponsored by the Physics Dept. 

•5:00 
P.M. -Mass, Ash Wednesday Uturgy, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by Univer­sity Ministry and the Center for Social Con­


cerns 
•5:00 P.M. -Prayer Vigil for Peace, Lady Chapel, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by University Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 
All Rights Reserved

42 Fortitude 43 Moves furtively 6 Moo 45 Grotesque 7 Plsclvorous 
Imitation birds 48 Ways: abbr. 6 Fodder 49 Up to now 9 Emerge 50 Headwaiter 10 Comedienne 53 Likenesses from Brooklyn 57 Church area 11 Landed 58 Mississippi 12 Radicals 
captain 14 Garret 61 Galena and 17 Radiation 
manganlte measures 62 Sheepllke 21 "Big, bad ­63 Hawaiian Brown" 
goose 23 Meteorologist's 84 Saucy Instrument 85 Sense 24 Apparitions 68 Lab procedure 26 Apartments 
27 Made of a DOWN hard wood 1 Cover for 28 Missouri 
a field feeder 2 Seed appendage 30 Drop In 3 Fluid rock 31 Vacant 4 Battlement 34 January: Sp. 
open spaces 37 Dough man 5 Commotion 38 "-two evils" 

2112186 

42 Enid's husband 54 Kind of club 44 Certify 55 Ages and ages 46 Blazing 56 Manuscript 47 Siren mark 50 Alphabet run 59 Compete 51 Swiss river 60 Photog. 52 Joint blowup 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Farmer Brown froze In his tracks; the cows stared wide-eyed back at him. Somewhere, on In the distance, a dog barked. 
-6:15P.M.· Meeting, Circle K, Center for So­cial Concerns Building 
•6:45 
P.M. · Forum, Sexuality Education Forum, Mary Feeley, Saint Mary's, Stapleton Lounge, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by Campus Ministry 

•7:00 
P.M. -Presentation, for Finance, Management, and MBAs interested in career opponunities with CONOCO, Inc., also sum­mer internships, Room 220 Hayes-Healy, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services 

•7:00 
P.M.-Meeting, Spiritual Rock Christian Fellowship Meeting, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 

•7:00 
P.M.-Wednesday Nipt FUm Series, "Metropolis," Social Concerns Auditorium 

•7, 
9 & 11:00 P.M. -Movie, "African Queen," Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB, 


n 

•7:30 
P.M. · Lecture, '"Abortion: The Right Choice for Some Women?" Prof. Janet Smith, Notre Dame, library Auditorium, Sponsored by Notre Dame~Saint Mary's Rlgh.t To Ufe 

•8:00 
P.M. · Meetin& Notre Dame Toastmasters club, Room 223 Hayes-Healy 

•8:00 
P.M. · RASTAJimL, Band: New Age Mot­hers, The New Nazz, Sponsored by RASTA 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Unguine with Italian Mushroom Sauce Vegetable Crepes Marinara Baked Cheese and Tomato Pita 
TV Tonight 
7:00P.M.  16  MASH  8:30P.M.  
22  Three's Company  
28  Jeopardy  9:00P.M.  
7:30P.M.  16  Barney Miller  
22  WKRP in Cincinnati  
28  Wheel ofFonune  
8:00P.M.  16  Highway to Heaven  
22  Mary  !O:OOP.M.  
28  MacGyver  
34  National  Geographic  Special:  
"Creatures of the Mangrove'"  

Saint Mary's Roast Turkey with Dressing Beef & Bean Chimichanga Broccoli & Cheese Quiche 
12  Foley Square  
46  ConcenBook  
16  Blacke's Mqic  
22  Crazy Ukc a Fox  
28  Dynasty  
34  Mystery: "'Ibc Resident Patient"  
46  LcacaAlive  
16  St. Elacwhcre  
22  The Equalizer  
28  Hold  
34  A Walk Thru the 20th Century:  
"2nd American Revolution"  

*************************~~************************* 
lp::::~~;c;;aE~OR ~i Th~;;;,;;;~~;~;;~ 
t 1\\~~e ~"'~ PARTy *!
""" *""" Wednesday and Thursday 
~ Friday and Saturday *~ February 12 and 13 $1.00 ~ February 14and 15 $1.50 ~-tc Hall of Engineering ~ Hall of Engineering lt~ 
~ *****7:00, 9:00, and 11:00******!*****7:00, 9:00, and 11:00 ***** 
~ 
S~orts 
Notre Dame beats Fordham 81-58 despite the Rams' unexciting tactics 
shoot with us so we made them play "Since we've beaten them a By DENNIS CORRIGAN our game. We got the steals (a game couple of times, I knew they Sports Writer total of 17), and the press gave us the wouldn't take us lightly. I know Dig­
momentum we were looking for. ger, he's not going to look by us." 
Fans at last night's basketball game "We felt that starting with the But with the 16-point lead, the at the ACC actually saw two games press and then going back to it later game reverted back to the Irish vs. for the price ofone -Notre Dame vs. gave us the spurtwe needed to go up the Yawns.., The only questions Fordham and Notre Dame vs. by 16 atthe half." remaining were what would the Boredom. In the end, the Irish Despite his team's 31 turnovers, final margin of victory be and when prevailed over both and blew out Fordham head coach Tom Penders would Steve Nicgorski, Phelp's the Rams and the Yawns, 81-58, to did not lay all the blame on his human victory cigar, would enter improve their record to 17-4. squad. the ballgame. Nicgorski came in Fordham fell to 11-15. "That was probably the worst with 54 ticks left on the clock, did 
With the combination of the we've handled the ball this season," not score and commited one per­
Rams' deliberate half-court offense Penders said. "We had 21 turnovers sonal foul. 
and some lackluster shooting, the against North Carolina, seven When all was said and done, every 
Irish looked as if they had forgotten against St. John's and eight against player on the Irish bench had seen 
to leave a wake-up call. Then with Dayton (all loses). (But) I think action, and no starter had played 
6:44 left in the first half and the Irish Notre Dame is one of the best more then David Rivers' 27 minutes. clinging to a 21-20 lead, Notre Dame defensive teams in the country. Four players scored in double increased the intensity on its 12-They have good depth and balance. I figures, paced by Jim Dolan's with and-three-quarters zone press, think Digger bases much of his sub­13 points in only 18 minutes off the which resulted in a 17-2 run and a stitutions on defense." bench. Ken Barlow and Tim 38-22 halftime lead. Penders also didn't think that Kempton each scored 1 0 points and 
"Their style of play is to dictate Notre Dame's poor performance Scott Hicks added 11. the tempo," Irish head coach Digger early on was caused by a let down Phelps said of Fordham. "They from last Saturday's win over 
see BOREDOM, page 9
weren't ready to play the run-and-Syracuse. 
Irish swimmers host Saint Mary's as they work toward the NSC meet 
ByANDREA LaFRENIERE the NCAA, so that builds up the team travels to Evansville at the end of Sports Writer confidence a little bit. But we know next week for the North Star Con­we have some stiffcompetition." ference, a meet they won last year. 
Tonight's competition at the Rolfs The Belles, who lost to DePauw The following week the Irish head Aquatic Center promises a little 79-33 in Greencastle this past to Chicago to compete in the rivalry and a lot of fun when the weekend, are now 1-3 for the Chicago Midwest Invitational, 
Notre Dame women's swimming season. The team hopes to lower its where Welsh said he hopes the team 
team hosts Saint Mary's at 7 p.m. times at the meet tonight in prepara­will swim better than last season. 
tion for Nationals. "We're defending conference The Irish, who recently improved "We're working on speed now champs at the North Star Con­their record to 7-2 after beating both more than endurance," said Kut­ference Championship," he said. 
lliinois (Chicago) and Valparaiso in mitz. "We're trying to concentrate "Last year we were fourth at the In­a dual meet, aim to achieve another more on starts, turns and relay vitational, and we'd like to improvevictory at the event. 
starts." upon that."
Irish Coach Tim Welsh is confi­Saint Mary's swimmersJoyce Mur­While tonight's meet is importantdent ofhis team's ability to do so. 
tagh and Meghan Rafferty will at­to both the Belles and the Irish, neit­"In the past few years we've tempt to meet the cutoff times for her team has lost sight ofthe fact thatbeaten Saint Mary's," said Welsh. 
Nationals in the 200-yard and 50-it will be an opportunity to have a"They've improved this year, but 
yard freestyle events, respectively. good time.
we've always been faster." 
"The girls who have met the op­"This is basically a fun meet for 
Despite the outcomes of its tional times are concentrating on us," said Kutmitz. "We're looking 
previous meets against Notre Dame, meeting the required times," said forward to swimming in the new 
the Saint Mary's team is eager to Kuzmitz. "They really want to break pool." 
swim against the Irish, according to them, and they're working on im­Welsh expressed similar thoughts 
Saint Mary's head coach Nancy Jo proving." on tonight's competition. 
Kuzmitz.· While the Belles are working "Although we consider it as im­
"We're ail psyched up for this towards Nationals, the Irish have portant as any other meet of the 
meet," said Kuzmitz. "We're used to two important upcoming meets for season, this is just kind ofa fun meet 
swimming Notre Dame and teams in which they're preparing. The team for us," he said. 
Wednesday, February 12,1986-page 12 

The Obsnvcr/RoMnjonn 
Irishforwardjim Dolan (42) attempts an off-balancejump shot in last night's 81-58 victory as Fordham playersjoe Paterno (35) and Goran Skoko (42) defend the lane. Dplan led the Irish with 13 points as 13 Notre Dame players saw action. Dennis Corrigan details the game at tbe left. 
Signing day promising for Holtz's first class 
By LARRY BURKE mangaged to get their recruiting AssistantSports Editor process in gear quickly, and the results figure to be favorable, par­
For a lot of young athletes, a ticularly in the Chicago area. period of anxiety and critical Here is a list ofthe 21 high school decision-making comes to an end seniors who are expected to sign today. letters-of-intent to attend Notre 
It's national signing day for hi~ Dame: 
school football players, which Tony Rice, quarterback, 6-3, 200, means that the long recruiting Woodruff H.S. (Woodruff, South procedure has drawn to a close for Carolina) ... Only quarterback to now. It also means that a lot of high commit to Notre Dame so far ... con­school seniors can end the pressure sidered one of the top high school and speculation that surrounds the QBs and ranks as the top football recruiting process by signing their prospect from South Carolina ... led name on the dotted line for their Woodruff to Class AA state cham­chosen college today. pionships in '83 and '84 ... accum­
It should be a happy day for Irish ulated more than 7,000 yards in total head coach Lou Holtz and his offense as a four-year starter, passing recruiting coordinator, Vinny Cer­for 40 touchdowns ... completed 86 
rato. Despite the setback of a post­season coaching change, the Irish see RECRUITS, page 9 

February yields lack of meaningful pro action 
Hello again, everybody! Romans got to see the same thing at the Coliseum 2000 Frankly, my dear, I don'tgive a damn. years ago for free. -Rhett Butler, Chuck But the NBA isn't the only league to disgrace itself with a after watching a regular-season NBA or NHL game farcical regular season and playoff system, as their counter­
Freeby 
parts in the NHL are even more ridiculous. For 80 games, a The good news is the pro basketball and hockey seasons bunch ofguys with French-sounding names fight and skate are nearly half over. The bad news is they're only half over. Irish Items and fight and check and fight some more. The great 
February sports shows are replete with endless arrays of 
--------------------------• purpose ofall seven months ofthis "action" is to eliminate
highlights from meaningless NBA or NHL games. Of five teams from the playoffs. course, that's a bit ofa redundant statement, since to say an This isn't just picking on Cleveland either, although Lord Once you get to the playoffs, it's another story ofwasted NBA or NHL game is played in February, naturally carries knows there's plenty to pick on in the Plum City. It just so time. For instance, it looks like the Edmonton Oilers (also the word meaningless along with it. happens Cleveland currently would fill the final post­known as the Campbell Conference ail-star team) will 
season berth if the Eastern Conference playoffs were held draw the tough assignment of playing Los Angeles in theThe initials NBA should stand for Nothing But Apathy, today. And what might the Cavsrecord be? A sterling 18-31 first round ofthe playoffs. The Kings currently boast a mag­because that's what you get from players and fans for the for a magnificent .367 winning percentage. Or to put it in nificent record of 17-31-6. That isn't a playoff game, it's a · entire 81-game regular season.. Sure, teams run up and 
another perspective, the Cavaliers have a lower winning travesty.
down the floor almost every night and have a grueling road percentage than the last-place Cleveland Indians. And it goes on forever. The NHL playoffs end in May. Theschedule, but the effort isn't always there. Who can blame Even when you get to the playoffs, all fans see is a mere only ice in May is in the cooler at baseball games. Nobodythe players though, when 16 of the 2 3 teams in the league exercise in futility. Everybody knows it's going to come cares about hockey in May. Not too many people carewill make the playoffs? 
down to the Lakers meeting the winner between the Cel­about it now, so you know nobody cares about it in May.
Every NBA game looks the same, so there's no need to tics and Sixers, because those three teams have won every Nevertheless, both seasons will drag on, and we will all expend any extra effort. Everybody can dunk, so that's all title since 1979. So why even bother with the first two . be subjected to watching slapshots and slam dunks as the you see on the highlights. You don't see any steals, because playoff rounds? NBA and NHL seasons sputter to their anticlimacticthe league doesn't allow anybody to play defense. When I'll tell you why, folks. It's money. Cold cash. These playoffs. However, there is some hope for sports fansteams don't have the ball, they look like Gandhi. 
owners have to be able to pay Bird and Magic and The looking for a little excitement this winter. 
That, in etlect, is why the NBA regular season is one of Doctor when the se~n·s over without selling their first­The exhibition baseball season starts in three weeks. the biggest mockeries in professional sport. How can Com­born, so they put 16 teams in the playoffs. More games, Pick ofthe Week. .One thing you don't have to misioner David Stern call it the NBA Championship more money. It's just that simple. wait for is the home finale for the Notre Dame wrestling 
Playoffs when the Cleveland Cavaliers get to play? So what you have is fans in 6oston plunking down at least team. The Irish grapplers make their final appearance in Cleveland and .Championship go together like the Pope 10 bucks a head --probably more with the scalper's prices the ACC pit this Sunday against Matquette at 2 p.m. Don't and Tel Aviv. --to watch Boston play Cleveland in the first round. The miss it. · 





