Student chimney sweep -page 8 

Bomb blast hits Paris; 1 killed, 17 wounded 
Associated Press 
PARIS -A bomb exploded yesterday in a post office on the ground floor of Paris' or­nate I 7th-century city hall, killing a woman and injuring 
19 other people. 
The bomb blew out the win­dows and window frames on one side of the building and devastated the interior of the post office. It came four days after a bomb failed to explode on a crowded commuter train in central Paris. 
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the latest attack, which occurred about 7 p.m. 
Paris police chief Jean Paolini said the bomb at city hall had been placed "on or under a bench in the post of­fice." 
One witness said he saw two men leave the area just before the explosion. "I saw two Arab-type men flee the post officejust before the ex­plosion," he said. "One of them was about 35 and wore a mustache." 
The fire department placed the casualty toll at one dead and 19 injured, one of them seriously. A witness said the woman who died was "completely blown apart." 
The plaza in front of city hall was littered with glass shards and wood splinters. Inside, panels from the post office's ceiling were hanging down, criss-crossed with ripped out wiring. Furniture was smashed, wood was burned, and the carpeting was ripped to shreds. 
VOL. XXI, NO. 10 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9,1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

RASTA announces forced abolishment for rule violations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Most new infertility treatments are morally acceptable, but the practice of one woman carry­ing another's fetus should be restricted, a medical ethics committee said yesterday. 
In the first major report ex­amining the ethics of new repro<fuctiv(~ technology, a committee of doctors, lawyers and ethicists said practices such as artificial in­semination and using donor sperm and eggs for produc­ing test tube babies is morally acceptable in most cases. 
However, the panel said some other procedures should be classified as ex­perimental and not used routinely until more is known about them. 
The committee, estab­lished by the American Fer­tility Society, which represents I 0, 000 doctors, scientists and specialists dealing with fertility, said it had "serious ethical reserva­tions" about surrogate mot­herhood. 
The group called for "inten­sive scrutiny" of the practice because of legal and ethical By TROY DUNCAN · 
News staff 
Tim Griffy, president of Rally Against Starvation, in­formed the student senate last night that RASTA is banned from the University. 

Griffy received a letter from Joni Neal, the director of stu­dent activities, that cited al­cohol and drug use at a RASTA sponsored concert last year as the reason for the club's abolishment. 
In her letter, Neal says the presence of "alcohol and drugs was obvious," and that marijuana paper and other paraphernalia were confis­cated by security. 
Griffy says that the organi­zation has "been unfairly dealt with," and that it is "extreme to abolish a club" due to a few individuals at a single event. He pointed out that the club had 22 other events last year without any problems. 
In the letter, Neal noted that the rugby club, which volun­teered to secure the front doors at the concert, was also cited for their drunken na­ture, and the club was dis­banded. 
Griffy said he feels that se­curity should have dealt with the guilty individuals. 
As one RASTA member pointed out, the University does not cancel football games or pep rallies even though alcohol clearly exists at these events. 
RASTA is "a very human and sympathetic cause, that they (the University) cannot push aside," summed up an­other member. 
The issue of police inter­vention at off campus parties was also brought before the student senate. 
Student Body President 
Mike Switek says he plans to 
meet with police officials in 
the near future to discuss the 
matter. 
John Gardiner, the senator from district one, also will contact Legal Services re­garding student's rights. 

Pan Am crew escape praised and criticized 
Homeward bound again 
Three passengers of last Friday's hijacked Pan Am jetliner tried their luck again with Pan Am as they boarded another jet at the Karachi airport Sunday. The three escaped with other passengers following the gunfire that ended the high­jacking. The plane's crew had escaped early in the siege, sparking controversy as to whether or not they should have stayed with the plane. The merits of their early exit are debated at right. 
disagreement on the issue among pilots, airline officials and the hijack victims them­selves. Opinions ranged from 

Ethics of surrogate motherhood 

questioned by medical committee one survivor who called the 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The escape of Pan Am's cockpit crew at the start of the 17-hour hijacking in-Pakistan has stirred debate over whether the ancient rule that a captain never aban­dons ship should apply tojet­liner hijackings. 
An informal Associated Press survey yesterday found 

concerns, and because so much is unknown about the physical and psychological . effects of the practice on the mothers and offspring in­volved. 
The committee said it was ethically unacceptable to use motherhood for
surrogate fectively grounded thejetliner ·heroic business of the crew non-medical reasons, such as at Karachi Airport. being the last to abandon the convenience of not carry­But it left the nearly 400 ship -here it's the plane ­ing a fetus to term. 

passengers and remaining when the crew abandons the crew without an authority fig-plane, the plane becomes anThe panel concluded it ure and confronting four ter-unattractive object for hijack­would be preferable for sur­rorists, who in the end ing," he was quoted asrogates "not to receive pay­blasted them with grenades saying. "It's like you'vement beyond compensation and machine-gun fire, killing hijacked a building."
for expenses and their incon­venience." 

18 people. see HIJACK, page 4 
"If one refers to the maritime world, where the tradition would have the cap­tain of a sinking ship be the 

last to leave the deck, one could find quite cowardly the conduct of this crew." Le Figaro, a leading French dai­ly, editorialized yesterday. 
Terry Middleton, executive administrator of the London­based International Federa­tion of Air Line Pilots Associa­tions, which represents 

60.000 pilots in 66 nations. said the advantage of keeping a commandeered airliner grounded could out­weigh all other considera­tions. 
Shuli Naor, a captain for the Israeli airline El AI, quoted in the Tel Aviv news­paper Hadashot, agreed. 
"Look, if you drop the cockpit crew's action "ab­solutely superb" to a spokes­man for a competing airline who said it was "unthink­able." 

By escaping through a hatch in the roof of the Boeing 747 soon after terror­ists boarded the plane Friday, the three-man flight crew ef­
-~-----~---~----. 
---~---------~---~­
The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 
Reacting to controversy surrounding date rape and the Greek system, the Pi Kappa Phi national fraternity has created a poster-as part ofan awareness campaign -which bears a detail ofa soldier carrying offa struggling woman from the painting 'The Rape of the Sabine Women." The poster reads: "Today's Greeks Call It Date Rape. Just a Reminder from Pi Kappa Phi. Against her will is against the law." -The Observer 
The first James Dincolo Outstanding Teaching Award has been awarded to Father Carl Ebey. The annual $500 award honors an assistant professor of accoun­tancy for excellence in classroom teaching. Ebey spe­cializes in teaching accounting for not-for-profit organ­izations. A CPA, Ebey has BBA and MBA degrees from Notre Dame, an MA degree from Holy Cross College, and a DBA degree from Indiana University. -The Observer 
Of Interest ~ 
"Welcome Lou Week" will be celebrated by the Senior Class today from 5:30 to 7:30p.m. at the War Memorial. Ice cream and a D.J. will be featured. -The Observer 
"But I Knew Him" will be the focus of tonight's sexual violence seminar sponsored by Saint Mary's student government. Notre Dame graduate students Jean Badry and Micheal Jenkins will speak about date rape at 6:45 
p.m. in LeMans Hall's Stapleton Lounge.-The Observer 
Placement Night for all engineering seniors will be tonight at 7 in the library auditorium. Career and Place­ment Services strongly recommends that these stu­dents attend. -The Observer 
The Kellogg Institute will hold its first Brown Bag Seminar of the 1986-87 academic year today at noon in 131 Decio. Rosario Espinal, a faculty fellow, will speak on "The 1986 Elections in the Dominican Republic: Paradoxes in a Democratic Process." -The Observer 
The Center for Social Concerns will host its first in a series of hospitality lunches on Wednesday from I 1 :30 
a.m. to I :30 p.m. A Vietnamese family will prepare their native food for the benefit ofVietnamese refugees. Extra egg rolls will be available for carry-out. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted at the Observer office to the Day Editor on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center until I p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
It will mostly be a sun-day 
ofa Tuesday with highs in the low to mid 70s. There is a 20 percent chance of showers tonight with lows in the upper 50s to low 60s. Tomorrow, the chance of rain increases to 40 percent with highs in 

the low 80s. -AP 

The Observer 
Design Editor . ........... Andy Saal Design assistant ........ Mike Mojica Layout Staff Bob White ..................... Tim Staacke Typesetters . ....... Chuck Papandrea News Editor ........ Mary Heilmann Copy Editor ............. Jim Riley Sports Copy Editor . ...... Pete Gegen 
Viewpoint Copy Editor .. Pat Creadon Features Copy Editor .. Gertie Weimer Features Layout ......... Carey Gels ND Day Editor . ........ Lynn Strand Ad Design . ...... Catherine Ramsden .............. Mary Carol Creadon Photographer .......... Joe Vitacco 
Tht: Ob~rvt:r ( l ~~ c;':)lJ.! f000 II' puhl1,hc:d \lnnd.J\ lhrou~h I nJa\ t'XC. c:pt dunn~ t·xam ancJ \.llatHHl pt:ruuJ, The Observer 1' puhll'\hnl h\ tht· ...rudt'lll'• ol tht· 1 fll\t'P•II\ ol :'\ntrc: Dana· .tnd 'amt \t.tn ·, <ollc:f(t" \uh"'<. npuon.. m.a~ ht· purdld,c:d tor s "tO pc·r H:";,tf ( 1.!0 per -.eme,teT I h~ \\-Til!OJ( Tht: Observer. P c l Box (,l '\,curt· l>.unt· tnJIJII.I 
•<>~~(> The ObM-rver I' J mt·mher of The ..o\..,sociared Pre,~ ..\II n·prodw. tiUII n~hh Jn· rev-r\ed 


Observer Campus Network is beginning of student voice 
No, OCN is not a new cable channel. 
No, OCN is not a new form of cocaine. 
No, OCN is not the name of a new terrorist 
organization. 
OCN is the new Observer Campus Network. It is a new approach to capturing student opinion in a timely and effective manner and filtering this information across campus. 
The idea for the network occurred because so many students, administrators and organ­izations on campus would call The Observer wondering what the students' atttitude on a specific issue was. 
Usually, the only sources available to guage opinion were personal and isolated experiences with a small number ofstudents. No one knew if these experiences were re­flective of actual student opinion. As a result, the student voice went unheard. 
The usefulness of such a polling network becomes apparent when one considers prominent issues last year where student in­put was lacking. 
When last year's student body president 
pushed through a raise in the student activ­
ities fee, for example, he indicated that was 
what the students really wanted and what 
they would have presented to the Board of 
Trustees. 
Was this true? Would you have supported 
the increase? Since the OCN didn't_ exist, no 
one knows. 
Presently there are several areas in which 
the campus network can guage student 
opinion. 
Now that it's done, what do students think 
of the new War Memorial? 
Do students think the campus-widejudicial council system for representing students in disciplinary action is effective? 
Please 
support AMERICAN 
CANCER 
SOCIETY® 
Thankstoyou... itworks... for 
ALL 
OFUS 
Frank Malone 
OCN Manager 

Not everyone listens to Casey Casem's American Top Forty, and South Bend often lags behind the latest releases, but what songs are most popular on campus (after the Victory March, of course)'? 
Do Saint Mary's students feel differently than Notre Dame students on issues such as campus security'? How is President Hickey doing? 
Over the next few months, the questions will vary, but the purpose will remain the same. With your help, the OCN will probe the campus, draw out your opinions, and clarify the voice of the students on this campus. 



m-.March 
~0.ot




1mes 

SAVES BABIES 
HELP FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS 

HOLD THAT SUMMER TANH 
DO IT ALL +condition in booth +tan in beds 
+ relax on massage bed 


• 
call us at 277-7026

'IM-HAWA~ 
J.M.S. PLAZA 

4609 Grape Road
Unltadway Mishawaka 


Knights ofColumbus and Ladies ofColumbus 
First General Meeting Tues Sept. 9, 7:00PM K ofCHall 


Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 3 The Observer 

Board hears proposal for LeMans ntini-mall 
By SHARON HEGG 
News Staff 
The creation of a mini-mall in the basement of LeMans Hall was suggested byJeanne Heller, Saint Mary's student body president, at last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
Heller said that because of dissatisfaction of Saint Mary's students over the recent closing of the dry-cleaning service in the basement of LeMans Hall, she met with Sister Karol Jackowski, dean of student affairs, to discuss possible solutions. Jackowski then sent a proposal to create the mini-mall to Controller and Business Manager Jason Lindower. 
This mall would consist of a dry-cleaning service, a florist, a shoe repair service and possibly a movie rental
Top Guns 
store. Members of Notre Dame's Army ROTC Center. The student government Rangers drilled yesterday in front of Stepan also suggested opening a 
QUESTION #2. 
HOWCAN THE BUDGET-CONSCIOUS COLLEGE STUDENT SAVE MONEY? 
a) 
Save over 50% off AT&T's weekday rates on out-of-state calls during nights and weekends. 

b) 
Don't buy textbooks when "Monarch Notes" will do iustfine. 

c) 
Save 40% off AT&T's weekday rate on out-of-state calls during evenings. 

d) 
Count on AT&T for exceptional value and high quality service. 

e) 
Hang around with the richest kids in school; let them pick up the tab whenever possible. 


Ifyou're like most college students in the western hemisphere, 
you try to make your money go a long way. That's why you should know that}..T&r Lg_ng Distance Service is the right choice :fur you.
/ *".AT&r oifers so many terrific values. For example, you // can save over 50% off AT&r's day rate on calls during ./// A' weekends until5 pm Sunday, ~nd from 11 pm/,/.r::f!r f _\ to 8 am, Sunday through Fnday. 
1 

~7A~v · Call between 5 pm and 11 pm,{,/'7JV Sunday through Friday, and you1l save 40% off our day rate. 
Ever dial a wrong number? AT&r gives you 
+immediate credit if you do. And of course, you can count on AT&r for clear long distance connections any place you call. 
To find out more about how AT&r can help save you mon~ give us a call. With a little luck, you won't have tohang aroun with the rich kids. Call toll-free today, aH-800222~300----·"" r/
~--· ....... -At_t.rtJI!r 
-~~ 

ATs.T 
The right choice. 
(cl 1986AT&T 

grocery store specializing in refrigerated products and health food. 
Following up on last year's proposal to change the Cushwa-Leighton library hours, Heller and Vice Presi­dent of Academic Affairs and College Relations Betsy Burke met with Sister Bernice Hol­lenhorst, director of the li­brary. 
The Sunday after the last home game the library will open at I 0 a.m. The number of students who use the li­brary at that time will be mon­itored. If the number is large enough, a change may be in order. 
She said the library will stay open on football Sat­urdays from 9 a.m. to noon. 
Heller also said that Gloria Steinem's scheduled lecture on Wednesday Sept. 17 has been canceled. She will be ap­pearing on the Today Show that entire week. 
Trial delayed for driver in Hurley's hit and run 
By TRIPP BALTZ 

News Editor 
The court case for Mary 

Beth Gallivan, the alleged 
driver of the car that struck 
Kevin Hurley, was postponed 
today because Gallivan's at­
torney forgot to prepare a 
plea bargain. 
Judge Gerome Frese 

decided to defer the case to 
Sept. 17. Gallivan is expected 
to enter a guilty plea, accor­
ding to her attorney, Victor 
Mcfadden. 
According to Mcfadden, 

the responsibilty ofpreparing 
the plea lies with either the 
deputy prosecutor or the at­
torney for the defense. 
Mcfadden said the prosecll­
tor had left the duty of writing 
the plea to the defense. "It 
was just an oversight," said 
Mcfadden. "Itjust slipped my 
mind." 
The plea bargain had been worked out between the defense and the prosecution before the case came to court, Mcfadden said. It is a law in St. Joseph County that the plea bargain be in writing when presented to the court, according to Mcfadden. 
When a defendant enters a plea on a case, the court asks if the individual has entered the plea voluntarily, Mcfad­den said. The defendant is surrendering to the decision of the court if they enter a plea, said Mcfadden. 
Mcfadden said the prose­cutor agreed to remain silent as part of the plea bargain. After a thirty-day period, the judge will deliver a sentence based upon the defendant's plea and a pre-sentence report prepared by the pros­ecutor's office, Mcfadden said. 



r---------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 4 
.....,...... if"""' 
Chilean opposition leaders arrested t:~­

in search for president's assailants 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO, Chile -Security forces yesterday arrested op­position leaders and raided leftist strongholds in slum areas to search for the would­be assassins who ambushed President Augusto Pinochet's motorcade. 
Three leading dissidents and three French activist priests were among those said to have been arrested. Five news magazines were banned. 
"The government has enough support to do whatever it wants," declared Pinochet, his hand bandaged, as he arrived for work and waved to scores of applaud­ing supporters outside the presidential palace. 
The ruling four-man junta, dominated by Pinochet, decreed a 90-day siege throughout Chile after Sun­day's rocket and machine gun attack. five of Pinochet's bodyguards were killed and I I wounded in the ambush. 
Pinochet, a general and the commander of the army, suf­fered only cuts on his left hand in the ambush on a road 


Gorbachev claims to want summit to evaluate US/USSR relationship 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Kremlin leader 
Mikhail S. Gorbachev said 
yesterday that he still wants 
another superpower summit 
and that a foreign ministers' 
meeting scheduled this 
month will show "whether the 
Soviet-American dialogue 
has a chance to advance far­
ther." 
Since the summit in 
Geneva, Gorbachev said, the 
two nations "have not moved 
even an inch closer to an 
arms reduction agreement." 
Gorbachev's comments 
were made in reply to ques­



ffijack 
continuedfrom page 1 
At a news conference in 
New York on Friday, Martin 
Shugrue, vice chairman and 
chief operating officer for Pan 
American World Airways, said 
the cockpit crew followed 
"long-established Pan Am 
and industry procedures un­
der circumstances of the na­
ture." 
Mike Thexton, 27, a Briton who survived the ordeal, said at Heathrow Airport Sunday night that abandoning the plane was "the best thing they could possibly have done." 
But Nari Kalwani, 32, of Bombay, India, who was among passengers nown from Karachi to frankfurt, West Germany, said the crew "abandoned us, left us alone with the hijackers." 
A Pan Am spokesman in London, Peter Joel, described such criticism as "Monday­morning quarterbacking." 
in the Maipo Canyon, 18 
miles southeast of the capi­
tal. He was returning from his 
weekend home. 
It was the first reported at­
tempt on Pinochet's life since 
he took power in a military 
coup 13 years ago Thursday. 
Neither of the country's two 
Marxist guerrilla groups 
claimed responsibility for the 
attack. 
Chile's Roman Catholic bis­
hops and the broad-based 
moderate opposition move­
ment condemned the assas­
sination attempt. 
Soldiers with blackened faces along with several tanks surrounded La Victoria and Davila slums before dawn, and security police began house-to-house searches, witnesses said. Both shan­tytowns in southwestern Santiago have strong Marxist political organizations. 
Three french Roman Cath­olic priests were arrested during the raids, a church spokeswoman said. Speak­ing on condition of anonymity, she said the priests, Paul Dubois, Daniel Caruette and Jaime Lancelot 
tions from the Czechoslovak newspaper Rude Pravo. They were distributed by the Soviet news agency Tass and read over national television. 
Commenting on the possi­bility of a new summit with President Reagan, Gorbachev said, "We are for holding a Soviet-American summit, a summit that would be marked by noteable headway in solving if only one or two of the substantial problems of international security." 
Gorbachev said he does not take an "all or nothing" atti­

~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
GET IN GREAT SHAPE! AND HAVE FUN DOING IT!! 
tude toward a second meet­ing with Reagan, but added: "there is no sense in holding a meeting for the sake of 'nothing.'" 
The Soviet arrest of Ameri­can correspondent Nicholas Daniloff on espionage charges has prompted speculation that it could endanger a summit this year. In Washington, adininistra­tion officials said cancellation of the Shevardnadze-Shultz planning session was one of the options Reagan was con­sidering as a response to the arrest. 
were taken to a nearby police 
station. She said no other 
details were immediately 
available. 
Witnesses told reporters 
that at least two of the priests 
were beaten with rifle butts. 

Plainclothes police without warrants arrested Ricardo Lagos and German Correa, leaders of branches of the Socialist Party, in predawn raids on their homes, rela­tives said. 
Rafael Marroto, a public spokesman for the Leftist Revolutionary Movement, was reported arrested in a similar raid. 
The Santiago military gar­rison commander announced a ban on five opposition publications and police began seizing them from magazine distribution agencies and newsstands. 
The state of siege permits the government to tap telep­hones, open mail and hold prisoners indefinitely without notifying their relatives. It suspends judicial review of the government's power to arrest and banish dissidents, ban public gatherings and censor the press. 
FALL SCHEDULE MW 4:00-5:00 pm MW 4:30-5:30 MW 5:15-6:15 TI4:15-5:15 n 8:00-9:00 
F 4:00-5:00 

call 239-61 00 tor more into 
....
,~ 

THEr~if~WAV 
APPhoto
Catching a summer sunset 
Seven-year-old Michele Sidman tries to reel in one more summer day at a lake near Amarillo, Tex. 


Needs Drivers!!! 
Fle:dble hours, good 
CALL TODAVII (Business is Booming) 



INTRO-PSYCH STUDENTSI 
Step Beyond Tradtti.onal Stud.ytnq 
Learn, revi.ew, and. tncrease you.r test-taR.i.nq capabil.i.ti.e.s wi.th the 
WOR~/LOfTUS:PsycHOvoay 



tn:;tWeO~~~::;w 
Softwore ovolloble 1n mony other titles. Check your texts; moll for o free c'otolog.
n 

MAIL TO: SOFT PRODUCTIONS, 100 CENTER MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 or cell 219-255-3911 
MASTERCARD __VISA EXP. DATE--­
CHARGE•: ____________________________ 
SIGNATURE:------------­ENCLOSED CHECK--APPLE IBM __
NAME: ______________________________ 
ADDRESS:------------­CITY: _____STATE: ZIP:---­

The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1986 -page 5 

The Observer/Joe Vitacco

Caffeine break 
Margaret and Anne Bruns share a Coke, a Fieldhouse Mall. smile, and some homework on the 
Highest income gains in country boasted by 3 New En~land states 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The New England states have reaped the higgest rewards from the current economic expansion, while residents of the energy­producing states have lagged far hehind the national average in income gains, the government reported yester­day. 
The Commerce Depart­ment said New Hampshire residents have enjoyed a 30.6 percent income gain since the last recession ended in 1982, the biggest increase of any state. 
Nationwide, Americans' personal income has climbed 
20.9 percent since 1982 to an average of $13,867 for every person in the country last year. Consumer prices during this same period were rising I 1.9 percent. This means that the averaqe American's income, after adjusting for in-nation, increased nine per­cent fr0m 1982 through 1985. 
The six-state New England region, which has been enjoy­ing boom times because of its high technology and defense industries, had the best performance for any region of the country, a 27.3 percent increase, while the Southwest had the poorest showing, a 15.2 percent rise. 

Business Plan Cantest 
S&.DDD.DD in c:ash prize• 
awarded this semester for the most complete
viable plan for a new business venture. 
Meeting Tuesday, September 9 


4:00 pm 122 Hayes Healy 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Entrepreneur Society in conjunction with the Business Advisory Council of the College of Business 


American journalist faces espionage charge 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The newspaper Izvestia yesterday accused Nicholas Daniloff of using a 
journalist's cover to ferret out military secrets about Af­ghanistan and claimed the American reporter worked with an alleged CIA agent in Moscow. 
The government newspa­per said the imprisoned cor­respondent for U.S. News & World Report was charged by a military prosecutor with espionage under a law that imposes penalties ranging from seven years in prison to death. 
The article elaborated on accusations already made against Daniloff and ex­panded the charges against the reporter beyond the scope of the original claim that he received secret docu­ments during what was des­
cribed  as  a  secret  meeting  
with  a  Soviet  in  a  Moscow  
park.  

The arrest of Daniloff and the espionage charges filed Sunday by Soviet authorities have provoked a sharp reac­tion in Washington. Reagan administration officials have said the United States views the case as "a matter of ut­most seriousness" that could affect Soviet-American rela­tions. 
Ruth Daniloff, who was scheduled to to see her hus­band today for the third time since his arrest on Aug. 30, called the Izvestia article "preposterous." 
"It's absolutely crazy," she said. "It's just for domestic consumption while this case is being decided on a much higher level." 
Izvestia tried to link Daniloff to Paul Stombaugh, a U.S. diplomat accused of being a CIA agent and ex­pelled from the Soviet Union in June 1985. 
It cited as evidence a note, allegedly given to a Soviet by Stombaugh, that said: "We would like to assure you that the letter delivered by you to the journalist on Jan. 24 got to the designated address." 
Izvestia claimed Daniloff was thejournalist mentioned in the letter. 
Daniloff has been held in Moscow's Lefortovo prison since he was grabbed by eight KGB agents in a Moscow park. He told his wife he was picked up after a Soviet acquaint­ance named "Misha" gave him a packet purportedly containing press clippings but actually filled with maps 
marked  secret  and  military  
photographs.  
Izvestia said  Daniloff was  

handed the indictment on Sunday at Lefortovo and re­quired to sign it, which the paper said he did reluctantly. 
In a telephone call to his office from prison on Sunday, Daniloff said he could be held six to nine months without a trial. He said he was told he is not yet entitled to a lawyer. 
YOUR CHOICE 
Deluxe 4 or 5 drawer chest $79.95 4 drawer $89.95 5 drawer 
E.R.l. FURNITURE 
1131 East Ireland Rd South Bend. IN Across from Scottsdale Mall 291-4888 
••-----~mtM--------•I
272-5455

NAUGLES®  HOURS: 5:00-Midnight 501 Dtxleway North, Roseland, Indiana  I  
NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!!  I  
MEXICAN KJ~~H~~o Taco 1.09 1.69 Burrttoa Bean 1.79 2.49  AM~~!~!.~.~!~:~EN CUSTOM GRililll NOT STOCK PIUD Naugleburger 1.99 2 Patties with the works  III  

Mat 2.39 3.29 double cheese Combo 2.09 2.79 Cbeeae 1.89 2.59 Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 
I 

Make ony buntto wet for 50 cents!! 2 Patties with lettuce, 
P.S. Don't order macho unless you're ready for a tomato, mayo dressing pound of goodies! Hamburger 
1.19 Naet-A Cheeoe 1.19 2 Potties with pickle. ketchup. Have some sauce for no extra charge to spice them mustard. onion up that rooch more. add cheese .20 
Macho NIICbo'o 1.19 
DESSERTS

IWirlod bans, ~. a-, poppon, mild meat sauce, spicy !J"'!!l ...a! Hot Fudge • Hot Caramol • Strawborry • Orongo 8ll..bary • Oaoc::olate • Owry • Vanila • Root S.. 3.:19 Shalla 1.09 Saadaa 1.49 Rag. P!att<r 
Fuclge Browale .69 
MexlcaaSalacl 1.:19 :1.19 
Paot.y .69 
T-Combo 1.59 2.09 
Fwclge a.......... Suad.. 1.69 
CbiM Ole' .99 :1.39 Taco S.adwlcb 1.49 :1.59 
DRINK UP! 

Cblc:kaa Saaclwlch 1.74 :1.84 
Cold Beveragea

Platt• · All<lltmmt of ..._ It stdo Oldors. 
Uter-.94 
Want H a ..,.:1111 way · just order ttl 

Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Root Beer. Mt. Dew Eacldlacla'o (Piattor of 2) 
Dr. Pepper, Wolches, Slice. Lemonade, lee Tea MMt • lotza 1111UCe It ct-1.00 
Milk, Orange Juice also available Hotllcvan-·.&7 DINNERS Co/lee, Hot Chooolat., Hot r. 
•1 
Eacllllacla -_, 

•I 
Macho Taco SIDE ORDERS 

•3 
Mat Burrito Francb Frleo .99 


•4 CbMoe Burrtto A Taco Refrlocl Beaao .99 wttb chill oauce .99 
Complete with Mexican salad, relr1ed bans, chill & Nacho CbJpe .39 choose, !JiaCMilOie, !IOU!' aum & 0 pile of chips. Guacamole · Fresh. Fresh, Fresh .19 
A elmer wtth flf10U!I> loft"""' for tomorrow's LUNCH! Sooar Cream .25 
4.79. &ua c-for aoytbias .50 
I 

Plus tax~..t..;, nWIIrnwn order 
~ ·--.--~---------------------------------------------­




"ie~~_O_i_n__t_____________T-uesda~y,se~ptemb~er9,_19s6~-pa~ge6 
U.S. bar scene distant cousin to English pubs 

A cool mist haunts the streets of a small English town. Bone-chilled and weary, two companions search for a warming respite. The Prince of Wales smiles a welcome from the wooden sign that bears his name. The oak­trimmed wall proclaims outstanding beers, entertainment and fine fayre can be enjoyed within, especially the beers of Samuel Smith brewery es­tablished in 1758. One opens the door excitedly and enters the unpar­alleled world of the English pub. 

Mike lalacci 
guest column 
Immediately one is overwhelmed by the intricacy of design and comfort ofatmosphere. The walls are perhaps adorned with prints of English landscapes on discreet wallpaper, or ornate Victorian mirrors, or sturdy Tudor oak bearing antiquated farm­ing implements. The floor is rustic wood with sawdust shavings or per­haps covered with carpeting. A large open fire crackles at the delicately carved hearth. Perhaps a dart board engages able shots in one corner. Most definitely, from behind a large central wooden bar and headboard, bartenders dispense some of the best beer in the world. 
One bellys up to the bar to order a round. He politely attracts the bartender's attention and asks for two pints of bitter. The bartender pulls forward an ivory tap handle that pumps the beer from casks below where it is preserved at a delightfully chilled 55 degrees Farenheit (hence the beer tastes warm since we are used to beer served at 45 degrees.) Into the pint glass a clark, amber fluid of thick consistency pours, forming a slight foam. If one is hungry a va­riety of pub grub is offered from a ploughman's sandwich consisting of bread, cheese,and a sweet onion relish, to steak and kidney pie: all hearty fare. 
One finds a comfortable corner near the fire with a wooden table with velvet-covered chairs. He sits down opposite his friend, presenting his prized purchase. He quaffs a lusty draft of a rich, slightly bitter but smooth ale which one Englishman has proclaimed as, "ambrosia, the sustenance of the gods." 
The friends enjoy each other's com­pany. They converse on the fortunes of the English football club, the Tory government Shakespeare or the miserable weather. They regale each other with witty stories and jokes of understatement. Perhaps they rise, albeit carefully, for a game of darts. In the aura of the hearth, good ale and good friends a warmth slowly en­velops one. After he downs the last dregs of his beer, he realizes a pint is just the right size. Fortified for the wind-ripped rain, he and his friend return to the town streets. 
Such were my impressions of an English pub at its most quaint that is most ideal. Though a certain nos­talgia invariably colors my portrait the model still remains valid. A pub demonstrates that there is more to drinking beer than simply drinking beer. A pub demands fellowship, con­versation and wit as well as a few rounds of bitter. A pub is the meeting place for all descriptions from literary and intellectual circles, to politic groups, sport clubs, financial and law associates and local neighborhoods. 
Many of America's older neighbor­hood bars have some of the relish of the English pub. However, all too many American bars, fail to provide a comfortable drinking atmosphere. Our drinking institutuions unlike the rest of American society, fail to place a premium on comfort. Perhaps a guilt concerning drinking is one of our Puritan heritages. We afterall en­dured a decade of Prohibition and recently are witnessing a conserva­tive reaction to drink. Whatever the offered rt choice of beers from traditonal English ale, to Irish stout. German lager (our cold beer), to ap­pl~ cider to accomodate one's varied tastes. Further every beer is generally brewed locally or at only one brewery to preserve the quality of each beer. Unfortunatley, American bars make only meager gestures toward op­timum taste and selection of beers. 


The English pub offers a comfort­able and aesthtically pleasurable at­mosphere. The typical pub will strive to be decorated in a unique and in­tricate way. One finds great diversity in the. pub from the rugged interior of Tudor oak to the sophisticated Vic­torian bric-a-brac. Great care is taken to provide a homely and comfortable atmosphere. The typical American bar, on the other hand, is a rather austere creature in contrast with its English cousin. 
The typical pub, moreover, is more conducive to conversation and fel­

r r 

Doonesbury 

reason, the typical Ame1 ican bar is 
not an attractive place to drink. 
The English pub insures the act of drinking itself is a properly pleasurable experience. All beer is served on draft, and all draft is served in proper glassware, preserving the beer's integrity and taste. One is suprised if offered a bottle. One is 
lowship. It has become the meeting place of the community, where friends gather to talk. To this end the comfortable atmosphere allows one to enjoy fully the company of otheres without the distractions that impinge from without. The typical American bar, however, oftentimes prevents rather than preserves conversation. Many a bar's flashing lights and blaring music (as if noise were a virtue in itself) make talk impossible. Thus such bars serve a different pur­pose than the pub: the become places to drink heavily or pick up 
Garry Trudeau 

members of the opposite sex .111d be seeen socially. There is a comic irony here, however. An institution. estab­lished for young people to meet and become aquainted creates an atmo­sphere hardly amenable to those ends. 
The proper context for drinking is one of fellowship and conversation. 
Anyone who honestly searches his memory realizes it is the stories one tells of one's youth, the ribald jokes, or the cleabates about favorite baseball terams rather than a dr~nken stupor that makes drinking enJoyable. Thus institutrions that at­tempt to provide the the optimum comfort with a minimum of distrac­tions, a friendly, homely environment are closest to the true spirit of drink­ing. One should take pride in them. A pub is such a place. However, though England is famed for her pubs, we need not travel abroad. We must search within our own country for those old neighborhood bars and treasure them for all their worth. For in its proper context, amidst friendly 
conversation, drinking warm beer (or cold if you like) is one of the great pleasures of life. 
Mike lalacci is a senior in the College of Arts and Letters. 
The Viewpoint Department P.O. Box Q 


Notre Dame, IN 46556 

-----~--------------~----~--------­
\TieVVJ!~<>~i~ll~t~---------------------------------------------------------T~ue~sd~a~y~,S~e~pt~e~m~b~er~9~,~~9~86__-~P-a~ge__7 

Freshman gives words of wisdom to classmates 
• 
While listening to the various later learned this was because the ad­hire him because of his academic, I was unyielding in my quest for that not extracurricular, performance. particular job. If I wasn't so persis­
speakers at the freshmen orientation ministration is concerned by the Once he entered the business depart­tent, my name would have probably
three weeks ago, I realized that all of declining participation in these spe­the glitter I experienced in my senior cific activities. Statistics printed in the ment, though, he was told to join an been forgotten somewhere in their year of high school had vanished, October 16, 1985 issue of the academic organization and to strive list of over I 00 eligible writers be­
and it was time to become an un­Scholastic stated that an estimated for a position on its governing com­cause I believe that it will be a impossible for them to actively em­
familiar and slightly ignorant under­1200 students participated in 20 ser­mittee because companies have classman again. Gone was all the vicelsocial oriented groups with only tendency to hire well-rounded and ploy all these people this year. people over This surplus of members does not
recognition for my past high school 17% (actually one in every nine) of outgoing introverted ones. seem to be unique to any one club,
achievements and the respect I these being freshmen. was Another piece ofadvice he gave me though, at the present moment. My
received from the high school under­I extremely shocked by this classmen. Instead, I was told by my statistic because I was under the im­was to approach the organizations in friend said that the year always which I want to have an active voice begins this way, but by January, club
advisor that it was time to become a pression that involvement was one of the more common traits among and let them know that I exist. Most enrollment usually drops suddenly.
serious and responsible young adult It is at this time that advancement
so that I could properly embark on Notre Dame students. An upperclas­clubs usually are looking for sman then explained to me that in genuinely interested students and and association with other members
the next stage of my life. high school a majority of them were will quickly advance them into higher is easier, though. 
active, but when they arrived at the positions if they have potential and The last tidbit of advice my friend
Bob White 
University they either were neglected demonstrate it through quality work gave me was to not vacillate injoining 
a fresh start by the club(s) they wanted to enter, and dedication to the organization. any club that I am even slightly in­given some very menial jobs and So I decided about two weeks ago terested in because a majority of the decided that it wasn't worth their ef­to utilize my friend's advice and offer time a second or third year student 
My advisor informed me that the fort, or decided that they had no rea­my assistance to the University news­will feel more intimidated by that best way to make a placid transition, son to participate because unlike paper, which was the one activity in same club because helshe will not be while remaining a serious student at high school, it will have little effect which I was interested in having a able to bear the thought of working 
on their future.
the same time, was to become in­substantial role. I entered The Obser­with freshmen on basic assignments volved in the many organizations the ver office and stated that I was inter­while hiSiher friends complete the University offers. Even though he My friend, who is a business major, ested in the copy editor's position more complex and challenging ones. didn't downplay athletic involvement said that as a freshman he believed that I saw advertised in that day's he seemed to emphasize the aca­that joining any club would be point­paper. Even though I am a freshman, Bob White is enrolled in the Fresh­'lemic ami service-oriented clubs. I less because his future employers will I was hired for the position because man Year of studies. 

Talks with Communists not always the answer 
Saying that negotiations aren't nec­strangely Mr. Reagan hasexpressed Filipino people to govern; we all saw fifteen years and an acknowledge­essarily the answer for all our prob­hope for "a negotiated end to the that vividly on our television screens ment that the treaty forbids testing. lems sounds like a heresy. After all, war," believing that the Soviets are last winter. The New People's Army let alone deployment. ofour Strategic these bargaining sessions with our "sincere" in desiring this as well. ha's no such mandate. Furthermore, Defense Initiative (despite the fact the enemies arc meant to produce com­Talks have been proceeding under if the NPA could "smash" Aquino's Soviets have been working on their promises; each side gives a little, United Nations auspices; naturally the army, that is precisely what it would own version of 501 for years) All this receives a little and everyone goes Soviet-controlled Afghan delegation be doing now. But obviously it can­for the privilege ofsitting across from home smiling. Today we in the West demands "political guarantees of Af­not; hence the turn toward negotia­the latest proprietor of Soviet gulags most often flml ourselves gazing ghan neutrality" (meaning no more tions, and yet another attempt to and "psychiatric hospitals." across the ncgotiatinn table at repre­U.S. aid hut a continued Soviet pres­force Communism on an unwilling sentatives of Communist regimes. ence). Soviet strategy is obvious. people. "We therefore reflect every attempt Docs the fact make a difference'? Will They want to stop U.S. aid to the to impose on us any moral dogma those carrying the baggage of Karl rebels, and so they made an imme­whatsoever as an eternal. ultimate 
Probably the most disturbing So­
Marx's thought he any different at the diate dash to Geneva, there with their and forever immutable ethical law... 
viet negotiating ploy comes in the
conference table'? Don't Comimmists stone-faced bargaining approach to We maintain, on the contrary, that 
area of nuclear arms talks. The bald,
want peace, just as we do'? force yet another Soviet-controlled morality has always been class 
bespectacled Mikhail Gorbachev ap­
"zone of peace", just as they have morality..." Karl Marx's best friend 
pears unthreatening. yet he exhibits
<lone in Poland, Hungary, Czechos­and benefactor. . Friedrich Engels,
Kevin Smant a very shrewd knowledge ofAmerican
lovakia, etc. Unfortunately, former wrote the preceding passage many
politics. He knows how important
guest column Soviet ambassador to the United years ago. Clearly Communists of 
summit meetings and the "arms con­
States Anatoli Dobrynin holds the today are still acting on its basis. 
trol process" are to American liberals.
clearest views on this subject. The Negotiations. to them, are another 
The answer to the last question is such as Senators Kennedy, Biden, et
Soviet Union "must protect its revolu­avenue .for advancing their objec­
no. Communists <lo not want peace al. Gorbachev also knows that if he
tionary achievements" in Afghanis­tives. Thus those sitting across from 'just as we do." In fact as President tan, he said. should cancel this year's summit and them must be eternally wary. We Reagan has rightly pointed out Mar­loudly blame it on President Reagan's 
must insist on nothing less than our 
xist "morality" is "what will further Communists of other nationalities belligerence and "inflexibility", a 
own security and undisputed verifica­their cause, meaning they reserve have also leanied these tactics. In the storm of protest would descend on 
tion of any agreement. But if the 
unto themselves the right to commit Philippines, Corazon Aquino has the President and his Administration 
Soviets insist upon attempting to 
any crime, to lie, to cheat, in order called for a "negotiated peace" with something. in this election year. the bully us into accepting a flawed 
to attain it." Ami if partaking of the 16,500 man New Peoples Army; Republicans wish to avoid. Hence agreement, then let's walk away. We lengthy negotiating sessions furthers this despite the fact resulted in Fer­Gorbachev tantalizingly danges a need not be part of negotiations for 
1 
their aims, so much the better. Take dinand Marcos' ousting. Yet the foun­summit meeting in exchange for: the negotiation's sake. The Soviets must 1 Afghanistan. The Soviets invaded this der of the Communist Party in the United Statesjoining his meaningless ,
know that our will and determination 
neighboring sovereign country os­Philippines, Jose Maria Sison, said nuclear test ban (despite the fact that 
are strong. They must not achieve recently that Aquino has little choice the Soviets had already finished their
tensibly at the beckoning of the victory at the conference table -or in 
Soviet-installed puppet government but to form a coalition with the testing and nuclear modernization); ~ ,
any other manner. 
and they arc now ravaging the Afghan "revolutionary forces." The Commu­United States removal of its middle I rural populace with the help of nists. he claimed. would "smash" her range missiles from Europe (despite ~ booby-trapped children's toys. The army if she did not agree to joint the dozens of Soviet 55 20 missiles Kevin J. Smant is a Notre Dame 
United States belatedly responded them. But let's hold on. Clearly still directed at the Europeans); and graduate student in American his­with aid to the Mujahcdin rebels; yet Aquino has a mandate from the an extension of the ABM treaty for tory. 
General Board 
The Observer 
Edotor m-Choef Joe Murphy Busmess Manager Eroc Scheuermann Managmg Edotor Kev1n Becker 
Controller Ate• VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Voewpomt Edotor Scoll Bearty ProduCtiOn Manager Chros Bowler Sports Ed1tor Denms Corngan Photography Manager James Carroll
The ObsE'rver IS the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Unover­
Accent Ed1tor Mary Jacoby Advertlsmg Manager Anne M.Culhgan
Sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary·s College 11 does not necessar.ty reflect the !:a1'1l Mary's Ed1tnr Marg1e Kersten 
Systems Manager Shawn Sexton
po1oc1es of the admonostratoon of eother onstotutoon The news IS reported as ctccu1ately 
News Ed1tor Tropp Baltz GraphiC Arts Manager Mark Weimholt
and obtt!Ctovety as poss1ble Unsogneo ed1tonats represent the opon101' of a ma1oroty of 
News Editor Mark Pankowski 
OCNManager Francis X. Malonethe Ed1to11al Boa1d Commentaroes. tellers and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of the11 authors Column space os ava1labte to all members of the commun1ty and the tree eKpressoon ol varvonq op1n10ns on campus. through letters. IS encouraged_ 
Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent  
Up on the roof Colleen Clynes Saturdays." Bob said. "I features writer haven't time to run a large or­ganization, and that means Summer's over and so is doing all the sweeping that summer job. For most myself." Darners, it was not a tearful Burns is certified by the Na­farewell. Part-time jobs tional Chimney Sweepingranged from the boring to the Guild, the Wood Heating Al­bizarre, with the scales in fa­liance, and the Wood Heatvor of the former. One lucky Education and ResearchNotre Dame law student Foundation. He travelshowever, turned his part-time around the country and lec­business into a profitable· tures, by request to chimneyprofession, and one that is sweep organizations.just downright unusual. Bob Burns is a chimney His company, May Day sweep, with top hat and all. Chimney Sweeps, derives its He and his wife Jane ran a name from tradition. Burns chimney sweeping company explains, "In the 19th centuryin Connecticut before a sociologist named Mon­heading west to Notre Dame, tague roamed the streets of although the couple sweeps London interviewing Mas­chimneys in South Bend as tersweeps about their prac­well. Burns is a second year tices and experiences." law student here and his wife works for Notre Dame Admis­"On those streets he found sions.  The Observer/Jim Carroll The flame from Hiroshima makes an appeal for peace at the Grotto. This flame was brought across the States by members of the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament. Well, a servant found him and reasons. First we're all "Funeral directors used to brought him to his mother." familiar with the Christmas trade their worn top hats and • Day chimney fire -a piece of tails to sweeps in exchange "After that this lady gave a wrapping paper or ncwspa­for their services," !~urns  

"Someone asked me what I did before coming to ND law school, and I told them," Burns remarked. "The next thing I knew my phone rang and somebody wanted their chimney cleaned." 
Although time prohibited him from utilizing his skill during his first year, Burns brought his tools, and top hat and plans to begin sweeping chimneys this fall. 
His company, May Day Chimney Sweeps, provides services from cleaning chim­neys to removing animals, with Burns as Mastersweep. 

"School is my first priority, but I will sweep this fall on 
r­
r 
r 
a tale of an 18th century climbing boy -they used to climb the chimneys in those days. This lad, from a wealthy family, was kidnapped in in­fancy and sold to a mas­tersweep. Because many flues in London were quite narrow, the younger the boy 
the more useful he was. One day, this young fellow was brought to his mother's home as a climbing boy, and sent up the living room flue. Tired, young, and confused, he came back down the wrong flue and into his old bedroom." 
"Dimly recognizing his sur­roundings, he climbed into his old bed and fell asleep. 
feast each May Day for all the per, goes up the flue, ignites said. "Somehow the supersti­climbing boys in London. For the soot and Merry tion involving death in those many of those kids, it was the Christmas, .. Burns said. days got twisted into chimney only decent meal they ate all sweeps in top hats being year," Burns said. "Second, soot is acidic and, good luck." 
"May Day is also my left on mortar in llllmid con-"It was also considered very birthday," he later added. ditions for long periods, it good luck to sec a chimney contributes to the dctcriora-sweep on your wedding day
Chimney sweeping in the tion of the mortar. So you and many a proud papa paid
nation has experienced a want it removed from a main-a few shillings to be on a ccr­
resurgence recently due to tenance rationale too." tain corner when his daughter
the OPEC price manipulations Chimney sweeps today usc went by on the way to
and various other factors that modern equipment "ami church."
contributed to the re­most definitely do not climb With that, !~urns <Hided,
emphasis of wood and coal up the chimney anymore," "Maybe I'll stand in front of
stoves. And then an interest­Burns said. "I will never give the stadium before our first
ing problem was discovered. up my top hat, though." home football game this year "Nobody had had their 
Chimney sweeps arc con-for Sweeps luck to the Fight­fireplaces cleaned since oil sidercd good luck, an idea ing Irish!" and gas furnaces replaced 
that suprisingly enough was And we always thougl1t it coal. This is bad for two generated by undertakers. was the leprechaun. 
The Right Stuff 
ERIC M. BERGAMO exploits, but it also traces the· of power in the X-I 's electrical as.~istant feature.~ editor world of aviation from the systems ami of fires in the en­
Luck and experience were propeller-driven aircraft of gine that would have blown two precious commodities for World War II to the age of the the X-I to bits. Chuck Yeager. supersonic jet. 
But Yeager also tells of theThat, says the famous pilot Yeager's writing style is other side of flying. The wildin his book "Yeager," is how easy, owing much to his West 

drinking parties, most of

he survived flying advanced Virginian roots, so reading which took place at "The
aircraft for so long. That· is the book is very enjoyable. 
Happy Bottom Riding Club"how he was able to break the owned by a woman named

sound barrier in the X-I. That Yeager's voice isn't the oniy Pancho Barnes. (If one has
Is how he lived through har­one in this book; there arc ex­read "The Right Stuff" or seen
rowing situations that would erpts from Yeager's wife and the movie, they'll know morehave killed other pilots with pilots who had flown with about this.) These parties
less luck and experience. him. These parts add an extra make Notre Dame off­
Yeager writes that even his dimension to describing campus parties look like so­birth in 1923, at the begin-Yeager as the man he is. 
cial tea gatheings. Pilots were ---~~===~-----------------a hard drinking ami hard flying group.
Yeager Books But Yeager isn't one to
Bantam Books 


believe in the mythos of "the Paperback $4.95 right stuff." Yeager writes that having "the right stuff" ning of the age of aviation, Yeager does an excellent means that one is born with was a matter of luck. job of describing the ins and it and he is the first to argue The book, co-written with outs of flying. Especially with that belief. Yeager says Leo Janos, gives a special in­good is the detailed story of that the reason he was so sight to the man author Tom how he broke through the good was that he was flying Wolfe described as having sound barrier in the X-I. He more than anyone else. For "the right stuff." Not only also tells of flights in the X-I him, "the right stuff" is the does the book tell of Yeager's that turned terrifying: of loss stuffofexperience. Pilots who 


The Observer/Jim Carroll 
The Flame Is a remainder of the spirit within us, as well as a reminder of the spirit of world peace. Dalva Edrehl. 
lacked that experience or who were arrogant were the first ones to "auuer in" or cra5h. 
" Pilots were a hard drink­
ing and hard flying 
group. " 
Yeager also chronicles the 
differences between flying in 
World War II in a P-51 Mus­
tang that only had approxi­
mately 50 pounds of 
electronics aboard; to flying 
the jets of today which have 
complex on-board computers 
that keep the aircraft within 
its performance envelope. 
t1ow far our teclmolgy has 
taken aviation is amazing. 
Today, when America 
sorely needs heroes for 
young kids to look up to, 
Chuck Yeager certainly fits 
the bill. He did his flying out 
of dedication and exhibited 
Ltnbelievable courage when 
the going got tough. Courage 

is something Chuck Yeager 
Brig. Gen. Charles E. Yeager, USAF.
had in spades. 
Tuesday, September 9, 1986 page 8 -9 
We are the light 
MARY JACOBY 
features editor 
There is a flame that has been burning for 22 years in the city of Hiroshima, Japan to mark the day nuclear weap­ons were first used against humans on earth. Now part of this flame burns in the Grotto, placed there last week by members of the Great Peach March for Global Nu­clear Disarmament. 
Members of the march, who camped on White Field for two days last week, returned to campus Aug. 28 to present an interpretive dance version of the juvenile book "Sadako and the I 000 Cranes" by Eleanor Coerr. Following the performance, the Great Peace March Ceremonial Players marched to the Grotto where they lit a candle from the flame given to them by the Asian-Pacific­Americans for Nuclear Dis­armament, a group dedicated to survivors of atomic and H­bombs. 
The flame, which was taken directly from the flame bur­ning at Peace Park in Hiros­hima, was presented to the group as a reminder of the predicament the world faces with nuclear arms. The peace marchers have lighted candles from this flame in every city they have stopped in along the way ofthe march, which began March I in Los 
Angeles and ends Nov.  15 in  
Washington, D.C.  
Both  Notre  Dame's  light,  

which will be marked in the Grotto by a blue ribbon and perhaps later by a plaque, as well as the light in Hiroshima, will not be extinguished until nuclear weapons have been eradicated from the face of the earth. "It's a symbol of the fragility of the world," said Chris Bell, a member of the Ceremonial Players. "People can cherish their light until they have a chance to blow it out." 
The Ceremonial Players have been presenting "Sadako's Dance," their ver­sion of Coerr's book about a 

young female Hiroshiman, at 
stops all along the way of the 
march. "I felt the book itself 
couldn't bring home the ter­
rible reality of nuclear weap­
ons," said Marilyn Scott­
Branden, the troupe's 
director. The visual perfor­
mance was choreographed 
by the entire ensemble in 
haiku form so that elements 
of the bomb and its effect on 
the people became starkly 
apparent. 
On Aug. 6, the 41st an­
niversary of the bombing of 
Hiroshima, the Ceremonial 
Players performed "Sadako's 
Dance" in Dixon, Ill., Presi­
dent Reagan's hometown. 
'The flame is a reminder of 
the spirit within us as well as 
a reminder of the spirit of 
world peace," Daiva Edrehi, 
another member of the cast, 
said. She said further that all 
people are in a sense sur­
vivors, or ffibakusha as the 
Japanese say, because of the 
world condition everyone 
shares. "We're all survivors, 
not just the people of Hiros­
hima, but victims of all 
bombs and radiation 
everywhere, people who suf­
fer from cancer and birth 
defects (caused by nuclear 
testing) -whole communities .. 
on dumpsites that have to be 
relocated." 
Two members of the march 
have just recently returned 
from Japan. "We felt it is im­
portant to tell the people of 
Japan that we remember 
them," Edrehi said. Likewise, 
actual Japanese survivors of 
the bomb have accompanied 
the marchers and told their 
stories to different commun­
ities along the route in an ef­
ffort to dramatize the devas­
tating effects of nuclear 
weapons. 
In the meantime, it couldn't hurt to visit the Grotto and say a prayer for world peace. For the ordinary people of the world. so far removed from the stings of power, it often has to be the thought that counts. There may be no other realistic avenues ooen. 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in writing 
FEATURES for Ihe Observer___ 
see Mary Jacoby 
in the Observer office. 
Thursday night 
t 
I 
l I 
•
t 
Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 10
The Observer 




Sports Briefs 
The Notre Dame women's soccer club team lost in two close games Saturday against Indiana University and the University of Illinois. Both games ended in 2-1 defeats for the Irish, with Kathy Birmingham and Kerry Haverkamp scoring the single goals. The team faces Saint Mary's this Friday at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
There will be a meeting for anyone interested in being a member of either the indoor or outdoor men's varsity track and field teams for Spring Semester 1987 tomor­row at 4 p.m. in the ACC Auditorium. Further informa­tion may be obtained by contacting Pat Flynn or Joe Piane at 239-6135. · The Observer 
The Notre Dame Cycling Club will hold daily group rides at 3:45 p.m., with short meetings to precede behind the Administration Building. Rides will vary in length, and tours and races are planned for beginners and experienced riders. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Tae Kwon Do Club will meet tonight at 7 in the ACC's fencing gym. There is no cost for new members. -The Observer 
An organizational meeting for anyone interested in playing on the Notre Dame women's softball team has been scheduled for tomorrow in Farley's Middleroom at 8 p.m. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Judo Club holds practice tomorrow from 8-10 p.m. in room 219 Rockne. Beginners should wear loose clothing with long sleeves and any new­comers are welcome. Further information may be ob­tained by contacting Rob Detzner at 232-6917 or Sara Harty at 3427. -The Observer 
A general meeting for all members and prospective members of the ND-SMC Sailing Club takes place at 
6:30 p.m. tomorrow at the Boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. Members are to bring their dues, and the topic of dis­cussion will be the upcoming home regatta. -The Ob­server 



Classifieds 
I 

Anyone interested in joining the Windsurfing Club is asked to attend a meeting in Walsh Hall's South Lounge tomorrow at 7 p.m. Further information may be ob­tained by contacting Carter Thomas at 1605. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame water polo team has scheduled prac­tice this week at 4:30 p.m. at St. Joe's Lake. Practice will be cancelled in the event of rain. Further informa· tion may be obtained by contacting Dave Patchin at 4502. -The Observer 
Interested in writing sports? All students who would like to join the Observer sports staff should attend a meeting in the Observer offices tomorrow night at 8. If you have any questions contact Dennis Corrigan at 239-5303. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Boxing Club begins its novice pro­gram tomorrow at 4 p.m. in the ACC Boxing Room. Anyone interested in learning boxing techniques and training is invited to attend, and veteran boxers are welcome as well. -The Observer 
A Student Athletic Council picnic is scheduled for tomorrow from 6-7 p.m. outside Angela Athletic Facility for all Saint Mary's varsity athletes and prospective var­sity athletes. · The Observer 
The Notre Dame Rowing Club will be holding a gen­eral meeting for all varsity rowers tomorrow at 7 p.m. in room 123 Nieuwland. A general-information meeting for novice rowers is slated tonight at 7 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland. Dues are 15 dollars and are required for tonight's For more information, call Pat at 4071. -The Observer 
Steve Beuerlein will be the special guest on this week's edition of "Speaking of Sports," airing live tonight at I0 on WVFI AM-64. Listeners may call in questions and comments at 239-6400. Rudy Brandl and Sean Pieri host this week's sportstalk. -The Ob­
server 

St. Mary's tennis opens season at home against Valparaiso U. 
By MARISA KOSLA 
.">port.-; Wrilc·r 
The Saint Mary's tennis team begins its season today at home against Valparaiso at 3 p.m. 
According to second-year coach Deb Laverie, the key to this year's success is the team's experience. 
"This year's squad is expe· rienced and confident enough to win consistently," she said. 
Leading the team arc five 
returnees  senior  Kim  
Drahota,  junior  Kate  
McDevitt. and  sophomores  

Shaur1 Boyd, Sandy Hiekcy and Charlene Szajko. New ad­ditions to the team arc fresh· men Jennifer Block, Linda Cipowski, Buffy Heinz, Erin Flynn, Kelly Seppi and Jane Schnell. 
Although most of the players arc new, Laverie believes the team will flourish. 
"The new players have enough junior tennis cxpcri· cncc to win," she said, noting that most of them have en· gaged in summer tennis pro· grams. 
Two of the team's strengths arc team captain Drahota, the f~cllcs' stabilizing force.· an<l first-year player Block. 
"Kim leads the team prac­tices, and Jennifer is a well· rounded player," said Lawrie. "She will be seeded one or two this year." 
The Belles, who placed second at the state meet last year, hope to achieve a per· feet NAJA season ami to qualify for Nationals. 
"I think it can he <lone," said Laverie. "We have a talented squad." 

fhf! Ohsl'n't'r Sutrt' Diimt' ulfkt'. lo..-.Ut't.l on tho.: thirt.l Hour or L&l'urtun•· Stut.l<·nt C<·ntt"r. an·l'pt~ d&s.,ifit"d adn·rti~inj( from') a.m. until-f p.m...\londa~· throuj(h l'rida~· The Ohserr·er Saint \tan·, uffin·. h><·at<·d on th<· third Hour of llaj(j(ar Coll<·j(o.: Ctcnt<·r. ~l'l'l'Pt' da"ifinb from 1.!..~0 p.m until-~ p.m.. ~Inn· day thouj(h hit.la1 lkadlintc h>r m·xr·ddl da,,ilk<h i' -~ p m. :\11 da"ifi<·d, muM ho.: prt"paid. o.:itht'r in pl'r'"" or h~ mJil <hdrj(<e i' I o n·nt' per t11·t' ··hara<·· tt'rs r da1·. 
NOTICES 
BAR BEAT: The Observer Accent de­
partment needs one student reviewer 
for the bi-weekly Bar Beat column Must be 21 or older. Application and writing samples due Friday. Sept. 12 by 5 p.m. on the features department desk. Contact Mary Jacoby lor more Info. 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING. CALL DOLORES 2n·8131. 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
EHitlency apt private entrance good neighborhood utilities paid 288­0955255-3684 
BED AND BREAKFAST. FOOTBALL WEEKENDS FOR ND-SMC PARENTS. 545 PI;R NIGHT. 2 NIGHT MIN. CLOSE TO CAMPUS 684-1306 
BAR SEAT The Observer Accent de· 
partment needs one student reviewer 
for the bi-weekly Bar Beat column. 
Must be 21 or older 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST GREEN KHAKI JACKET IN 123 NIEUWlAND HALL ON THURS AUG 28 AT 2 00 IF YOU HAVE IT PLEASE RETURN IT SENTIMENTAL VALUE CALL GLEN X1066 

WANTED 
Women's group at Sacred Heart needs babysl11ers on Notre Dame Campus every Wed. 9:15·11 :45. Pays 57 per meeting. II Interested calf Valerie 233­6148. 
STUDENTS: RESTAURANT WORK. All POSITIONS. FULL TIME. PART TIME. FLEXIBLE SCHED. SEEKING QUALITY PEOPLE FOR A QUALITY ATMOSPHERE. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. APPLY IN PERSON MON·SUN. 2·4 AT STEAK & ALE. U.S. 31 NO. 
TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS. NO SELLING INVOLVED GUARANTEED. 54 HR.. MUST WORK 5 HRS. SAT. & 5 HRS. SUN. WITH ADDITIONAL HRS. AVAILABLE. LOCATED DOWNTOWN SO BEND. CALL MARKET OPINION RESEARCH. 282-2754. MON-FRI. 5·8 PM. 
HELP WANTED. DOMINO'S PIZZA. ALL POSITIONS NEEDED IMMEDI· ATEL Y. FLEXIBLE NIGHT TIME HOURS. MUST BE ABLE TO WORK WEEKENDS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· TWEEN 4:30 P.M. & 9 P.M. AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AVENUE 


FOR SALE 
TEN SPEED BIKE.272·6306 
TV RENTALS LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS. FOR!\!ERL Y COLOR CITY 272-5959 
CONCERT GUITAR. NEVER USED. 5300. 1971 CALIF. VOLVO RUNS GREAT 5500. CALL 272-5693. 

FOR SO. BEND'S LOWEST WATERBED PRICES VISIT CHEEPER SLEEPER WATER BEDS ON THE COR­NER OF MAIN & MCKINLEY IN MIS· HAWAKA. COMPLETE WATERBEDS STARTING AT 599.95. OUR PHONE C IS 256·0462. WELCOME BACK! GO IRISH! 
74 MONTE CARLO FOR SALE CALL 283·2002 

TICKETS 
Four Purdue GA's for trade (prefer SMU) or sale. Call Joe at 1802. 
Need GA's for all home games:Marty 1062 
SSSSS lather will kill unless 1 get him 4 michigan GA·s. save Troy 232-8627 
I NEED MICHIGAN GA TICKETS BIG BUCKS OFFERED CALL: 277·3786 
I GOT 2 MICH GA'S.BEST OFFER BY WED.CALL 232·6153.ASK FOR THE DUDE. NOBODY SEES THE DUDE. 
I NEEDT ZE ONE MICH. G.A. FOR ZE GERMAN FRENO. ZIS VILL BE HISS ONLY OPPORTUNITY TO SEE NOTRE DAME GAME IN HISS LIFE. VILL PAY IN U.S.S CAll FRITZ X2650 
NEED MICH. G.A. OR STUD TICKET CALL D Z AT 1441 
LOU WANTS YOU'!! to sell me Mic­higan tickets at your price. Will pay big S and give llltle sister. Call Joe at 3588. 
I NEED MICH GA'S.272-6306 
TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE 255·1343 AFTER 5:30. 
IN DIRE NEED OF 1 PENN ST. GA TICKET AND 1 PURDUE TICKET. CASH OFFERED. CALL JIM AT 1729 
MICHIGAN TIX MICHIGAN TIX MIC­HIGAN TIX MICHIGAN TIX DESPERATElY SEEKING TIX TO THE MICHIGAN GAME. PLEASE CALL3861 OR 1443 SOON! 
Desperately seeking ONE ticket to PURDUE game on Sept. 27--call BRIDGET at 3352. 
SSSI need MICH TIX G A. OR STU­DENT CALL TOM 239·5954 
NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN GAME CALL TONY 1392 
MOTELS FULL? FOR BED & BREAK­FAST IN A HOMEY ATMOSPHERE. CLEAN. COMFORTABLE ROOMS & GOOD FOOD. CALL 291-8468. 
DESPERATE ALUMS NEED MIC· HIGAN TIX. WILL PAY BIGS ANDQR TRADE PENN STATE TIX. CALL (201) 245-5923. LEAVE MESSAGE 
WILL TRADE FOUR ND-PITI TIX FOR 2·4 NO-MICH. TIX. OR WILL BUY 2-4 ND·MICH TIX. CALL (301) 256·2645 
WANT TO TRADE 1 MICH GA FOR MICH STATE GA'S. BEST OFFER CALL JOHN OR LEAVE MESSAGE 283·1504 
YOU NEED THEM. I GOT EM·2 MICH GA'S CALL 277-3952(JZ) 

PERSONALS 
HOW ABOUT A HOME-COOKED LUNCH FOR A CHANGE??? Come join us at the Center for Social 
Concerns 
For a Vietnamese lunch 
Wednesday. September 10 
11:30-1 30 

An lncr"EDIBLE" Experience" 
DARCOM SEEKS COMPETITION' THE INFAMOUS TRIKESTER(LAANZ) SEEKS PLAYERS (TARGETS)FOR A CAR WARS CAMPAIGN IF YOU'VE GOT THE BALLS TO FACE OARCOM CALL FRITZ-0-MATIC AT X2650 
PARENTS WILL DIVORCE ME ill don't come up with 2 Michigan GA s Call Jeff at x1384 
Need big S! Selling 2 Michigan GA's and 1 student ticket. Best oHer until Friday 8pm Call Jason at x3024. 
STUDENTS!!-·Purchase your class books at PANDORA'S and SAVE SS!! New Used books. BOUGHT & SOLD. 3 Day Service on tl!xtbook orders. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS. 937 So Bend Ave. ph 233·2342. 
HEY SHIRLEY. SURF'S UP' 

VIETNAMESE LUNCH AT THE CSC 
Wednesday. September 10 
11 :30·1 :30 BAR BEAT: The Observer Accent de­
partment needs one student reviewer 
for the bi-weekly Bar Beat column Must be 21 or older. Application and writing samples du& Friday. Sept. 12 by 5 p.m. on the features department desk. Contac1 Mary Jacoby for more Info. 
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND 
11:30 • 12:30 M-F 2ND FLOOR NEW WING LAFORTUNE $20-$200 FOR 30 DAYS I% INTEREST 
HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY AUG. 25 TO TEO WOODWARD (M(,A ETHEL MERMAN) DAD AND MOM. ANDY. NED AND ANNE 
FOOTBALL FANS STAY AT QUIET COUNTRY BED AND BREAKFAST NEAR BRISTOL. IN. TOLL EXIT 219­825-5707 
OAR HOUSE. COLD BEER & LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N.. ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
Wanted studen1s Interested In selling vacation tour packages for 1987 Spring Break Vacation to Daytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale. Florida and South Padre Isis Touas. Guaranteed good trips. good commission and 
terms For mon• Info. call -The Bus Stop Tours -In Illinois call collect (3 t 2) 860-2980 all other states 1·800-222­4139 or write 436 No Walnut Ave.. Wood Dale. IL 60191-1549. Prev10us experience a plus. Student Activllies. fraternity welcome to participate 



·--------------------------.------~ 
The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1986 -page 11 
.. 



Shula, players regroup after defeat 

Associated Press 
M lAM I -The last time the Miami Dolphins faced a task like this one, they had seven months to regroup. This time, they have only seven days. 
The defending AFC east champions were humiliated 50-28 Sunday by the San Diego Chargers. The last time Coach Don Shula felt that helpless on the West Coast was Jan. 20, 1985, during Super Bowl XIX, when the San Francisco 49ers whipped the Dolphins 38-16. 
This isn't the way Shula wanted to start his 24th season as head coach in the National Football League. 
"It wasn't a fun day looking at the tape today," Shula said yesterday at his weekly news conference. "But when you play as poorly as we played, you have to take the medicine." 
But Shula said he doesn't 
want to spend much time 



The King Says, 
'Glad you're back' 

BURNETT'S 
GIN 



9~~l 



1/2 Barrel 

$29.99 
(at Soutll Bend Ave. store only) 
.....................................•.........................................•••~~ ••......... 


+Prices Good Thru 9/13/86+ 
Lord Calvert Canadian ,...................• $9.99 1.75L 
•
• all sale 
•
• items are 
• 
<'''·· • 

cash or check 
~· only. 


$7.991.75L
~BARTLES&
III'JI JAYMES 
..~ 2~!. 
BUD KEGS 


watching a tape which shows his defense giving up 500 yards and his offense and special team turning the ball over four times. A couple of quick viewings and those tapes will be trashed. 
"We don't want to dwell on it and beat everything into their heads." he said. "We just want to look at it and learn from our mistakes and then get these things out of our minds and start working for the Colts." 
Next Sunday in the Orange Bowl against Indianapolis. the Dolphins get a chance to show whether the San Diego game was a fluke. The good news for Miami is that In­dianapolis may be just what the Dolphins need -the Colts lost to New England 33-3 Sun­day. 
Shula praised San Diego. saying the Chargers had a well-conceived game plan and executed it to perfection. The motion-filled San Diego offense confused the Miami defense, while the S'an Diego defense was successful in pressuring Miarni quarter­back Dan Marino. 
Marino completed 23 o_f 36 passes for 290 yards and three to4chdowns, but he was sacked four times and fumbled twice when hit while trying to pass. 
"They were very aggressive on their pass rush," Shula said. 'Their whole intent was to break down the pocket and get in Marino's face, and when we fell behind early and had to pass on every down, it just made it worse." 
Shula was particularly un­happy with the performance of his defense. He said the shifting by the Chargers backs was expected, but the Dolphins defense didn't react the way it had been instructed in practice. 
"They only made one move 
we hadn't seen." Shula said. 
"But the moves that we had 
worked on, we didn't make 
the changes." 
The veteran coach said his 
toughest task this week may 
be restoring his team's confi­
dence. 

"It's got to be a real downer 
for everybody," he said. "To 
see it all come apart the way 
it did is disappointing. But the 
most disappointing thing is 
nobody fought back, nobody 
tried to make a play to juice 
things up." 
The negative talk will end 
Tuesday, however. Shula 
knows better than to give up 
on a team after the first week 
of the season. Last year, the 
Dolphins lost their opener 
and were 5-4 after nine 
games, but they won their last 
seven games to win the divi­
sion title. 
"We got to get back to 
square one and work to try to 
~et it back together," he said. 
Receivers 
continuedfrompage 16 
come on very, very well," he said. 
With his strong perfor­mance, Williams assumed the starting tight end position. The 6-4junior played in every game last season, and finished with I I receptions. 
Backing up Williams will be sophomore Andy Heck and senior Dan Tanczos. Tight End Coach George Stewart says the group will be con­cerned mainly with the run­ning game, but will also have a chance to help the aerial at­tack. 
"We have a big and physical 
group and we are going to 
put some people on their 
butts," he says. "Our first 
priority is blocking for the 
running game. 
"We will also have opportu­
nities to catch the ball be­
cause the defense is going to 
have to respect our wideouts. 
That should open up some 
chances for us." 
The quality of the Irish 
receivers gives the offense 
unlimited big-play potential. 
But it remains to he seen if 
the big plays occur in t11c 
numbers expected. If they do, 
the whole Irish team will have 
unlimited potential. 


r---------------­
--~ 

.. The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 12 
Orioles' Weaver to quit after season
Baseball's Best 


Player? 
How 417 Major League Players Voted in a 1986 Poll 


votes  
1. Don Mattingly, Yankees  56  
2. Rickey Henderson, Yankees  42  
3. Dale Murphy, Braves  40  
4. (Tie) Eddie Murray, Orioles  40  
5.Dwight Gooden, Mets  38  
6. Roger Clemens, Red Sox  33  
7. George Brett, Royals  15  
8. Wade Boggs, Red Sox  13  

Source: New Vorl< Times Observer Graphic/Mark Weimholt 

Bear's QB McMahon sidelined for 3 weeks 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Quar­terback Jim McMahon will be lost to the Super Bowl cham­pion Chicago Bears for at least three weeks because of a shoulder injury. 
McMahon, the team's "free spirit," suffered the injury in the fourth quarterofSunday's 4 1-31 victory over the Cleveland Browns in the NFL season opener for both teams. 
"It's a second-degree separation in the right shoulder," trainer Fred Caito said. "He did not dislocate it. 
He  will  miss  about  three  
weeks."  
Caito  said  X-rays  were  

negative and that McMahon had movement of the arm. "At the end of this week he will begin to work with 
weights and in I 0 to 14 days he will do some throwing," Caito said. 'There was no damage to the rotator cuff. It is tender and sore and we will treat it with care." 
Caito said that a first­degree shoulder injury is mild and takes about a week to heal. A second-degree injury has pain and swelling and takes three weeks, and a third-degree injury is a severe separation that can take six weeks. 
Coach Mike Ditka said Mike Tomczak, a second-year pro, will start Sunday against the Philadelphia Eanles. 
"Three weeks is optimis­tic," Ditka of the recovery time for McMahon's injury. "If he can pop it (the ball) in three weeks, he'll be back in there. 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Manager Earl Weaver said last night that he will leave the Baltimore Orioles at the end of the 1986 season. 
Weaver, hired out of retire­ment for a second stint as manager on June 14, 1985, said he informed owner Ed­ward Bennett Williams and General Manager Hank Peters of his intentions about three weeks ago. 
At the time, Weaver said, the only response from Wil­liams was that they sit down 

Baseball Roundup 

after the season and talk about the decision. 
Weaver parried questions about his future before last night's game against Boston, saying no announcement would be made until he met with Williams. 
But after being told after the game that Williams had revealed his decision on Larry King's national radio talk show last F'riday night, Weaver confirmed the report. 
Asked if Williams could change his mind, Weaver said: "I don't think so." 
Weaver said he would not accept a job with any other team, adding: "I can't regardless. I'm signed through 1990 for $1 a year (as a consultant)." 

"The best thing is, I don't have to answer any more questions," Weaver said. "It's all over ... that's a relief." 
Williams, a celebrated Washington, D.C. attorney, was reported in F'lorida on a case, and unavailable for comment and Weaver said he did not talk with his boss yesterday. 


Expos stop Mets winning streak 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Rookie Bob Sebra pitched a five-hitter and Mitch Webster's two-run homer highlighted a 16-hit attack last night, leading the Montreal Expos over the New York Mets 9-1. 
The loss ended the Mets' four-game winning streak. 
Sebra, 4-3, lost his shutout bid with two outs in the ninth on Darryl Strawberry's 20th home run of the season. Sebra struck out seven and walked one in his second complete game. 
Bob Ojeda, 16-5, was the loser, breaking his four-game winning streak. He allowed six runs on I 0 hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Red Sox 9, Orioles .3 

BALTIMORE -Bill Buckner doubled home the tiebreak­ing run in the I I th inning last night, triggering a six-run ex­plosion against Baltimore relief ace Don Aase and the Boston Red Sox beat the Orioles 9-3 for their ninth straight victory. 
The Red Sox increased their 
lead in the American League 
East to seven games over idle 

second-place Toronto. Bos­
ton's lead is its largest since 
the All-Star break. 

After Baltimore scored twice in the ninth inning for a 3-3 tie, Wade Boggs led off the 1 1 th with his fourth hit of the game, a single against Aase. Boggs took second on a passed ball, moved to third on a groundout and scored on Buckner's double. 
Dwight Evans, who hit a two-run homer earlier, added a two-run double and Ged­man capped the outburst with a three-run homer, his 13th of the season. 
Tom Seaver took a four­hitter and 3-1 lead into the ninth, but left after leadoff singles by Larry Sheets and Jim Traber. Calvin Schiraldi, 3-1, walked John Stefero and gave up a two-run single to Juan Beniquez that tied the score. 
Cubs 7, Phillies 4 

CHICAGO -Leon Durham hit a three-run homer and Keith Moreland drove in two runs with a sacrifice fly and a single yesterday to lift the Chicago Cubs to a 7-4 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Chicago starter Ed Lynch, 5-4, allowed eight hits in 5 1-3 innings before being relieved by Scott Sanderson, who allowed one hit in 2 2-3 innings in his second relief appearance of the year. Lee Smith pitched the final inning for his 26th save of the year. 
FREE HAIRCUT-PERM-COLOR 
Women needed for Redken and Paul Mitchell Professional Hair Seminar for demonstration of the latest hairstyles 
This is your opportunity to receive a makeoverby the winner ofthe 'Hairdresser ofthe Year' 
I 
award 

Should be open to change Call 256-2033 for details 


Underdog 
continuedfrom page 16 
The Irish appear to have their hands full with another difficult schedule this season, playing five teams currently in the AP Top 20: Michigan (3), Alabama (4), Penn State (5), LSU ( 14), and Michigan State (20). 
Last season, Notre Dame had the toughest schedule in Division 1-A by a healthy mar­gin. Its opponents, when not playing the 5-6 Irish, won 72, lost 29 and tied three for a perc-entage of .707 against other Division 1-A schools. 
Others in the Top I 0 for schedule difficulty in 1985 in­cluded: Alabama .662, F'lorida .660, Rice .622, Auburn .621, Illinois .616, Boston College .613, Rutgers .607, Minnesota .60 I and Michigan .600. 



JAMAICA 


Mandatory meeting for all seniors who are: 





r ---­
~ 

1. 
Signed up for and plan on attending the ··.. . "}r·..~ 

2. 
=:n::~;~~~ut want to cancel their ~· .... ,~ ~ ·. 


reservations to Jamaica ~· '1119 ~ . 
I -\ 
' i'

3. Not signed up but would like to go to. ;.. \ ·· ..
Jamaica ,._ ../:~~-~·~· ·' / · < · · • '· 
·~ .: .... 

..·.~ . . 
.. ·.. 
....._' 

-Wed., Sept.10 6:00-7:00P.M. in Washington Hall -Room signups and remaining balances due Sept. 11 
*Seniors not in attendance will forfeit their spots on the trip 


--------.-~------,~-~--~~------~-----------__,_ --­
The Observer 

Cowboys down Giants on Walker's TD burst 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -NFL new­comer Herscllel Walker, sub­bing for tile injured Tony Dor­sett. scored two touclldowns, including a I0-yard burst up tile middle with I: 16 to play last nigllt. to carry the Dallas Cowboys to a 3 I -28 victory over the New York Giants. 
Walker, one of the brightest USFI. stars who last month signed a five-year, $5 million contract with the Cowboys, capped a 72-yard drive with his run up the middle. He was pressed into duty because Dorsett, who sprained his left ankle in the first period, was held out of the second half. 
Dallas was aligned in a shotgun formation, and Walker's run seemed to catch the New York defense by surprise. 
Danny White faded as if to pass, but slipped the ball to Walker. Walker, who was sup­posed to be used only sparingly, ran almost un­touclled into the end zone. 
It took Dallas only six plays to take t11e lead after New York had built a 28-24 lead on Bobby Johnson's second touchdown reception of the game. 
After tigl1t end Mark Bavaro caught a 30-yard pass from Phil Simms, Johnson tipped an underthrown pass, then outjumped defender Ron Fel­lows and ran 44 yards for the touchdown with 5:24 to play. 
The Cowboys, who led 14-0 
in the first half. took a 24-21 
lead when tight end Thornton 
Chandler caught a one-yard 
scoring pass from White mid­
way through the fourth per­
iod. The scoring play was set 
up by Walker's I0-yard run on 
a reverse to the New York 3. 
Walker, who earlier scored on a one-yard run, also fumbled in the third quarter to start the Giants toward a go-ahead touchdown. 
Queen's .Castle 

& The Knights 
$6student $8.50 complet 
.. cut style 
MINUTES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Ceater See a tan Ia IDinutee .•. Not Houre 
lronw I< St. Rv.d 23 (behind Subway Sandwtcheo) 

~W.t.,, 
~~;;-,l~ ST.GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY 
(~:,., } SCHOOL OF MEDICINE 
' o;_.,.,;; . c;Kf::\A(I,\. WtSI' 1:\Uif:~ 
St. George's Un1verSity School of Medicine. with more than 1050 graduates licensed 1n 33 states. offers a ngorous. nine-semester program leadmg to the degree of Doctor of Med1c1ne 
In January 1985. The Journal ot the American Medical Association pub-. lished a report wh1ch ranked St George's number one of all major foreign medical · schools m the Initial pass rate on the ECFMG Exam. 
70 med1cal schools 1n the Un1ted States have accepted over 630 St. Ge'Orge's students w1th advanced stand1ng. St George·s has rece1ved probationary approval to conduct clinical clerksh1ps in New Jersey subject to regulations of the State Board of Exammers. A Loan Program for Entenng Students has been Instituted for a lim1ted number of quaiffted applicants 
For mformation. please contact the Office of Admissions: 
St. George's University School of Medicine " ,., The Forei!!n Medical School Services Corporation One East Mam Street, Bay Shore, N.Y. 11706, Dept. C-2 (516) 665-8500 

ATTENTION! ALL BU81NE88 ITUDENTI GRADUATING IN DECEMBER OR MAY: 
(conoco) 
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA 
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 

SIGN UP FOR INVITATIONAL SCHEDULES IS THIS MONDAY AND TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8-9. RECRUITING INTERVIEWS WILL TAKE PLACE ON OCTOBER 9-10. 
VISIT THE CAREER & PLACEMENT SERVICES CENTER FOR DETAILS CONCERNING OPPORTUNITIES IN CONOCD'S MANAGE­MENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. 
CONOCD INC.• RECRUITERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS SEPTEMBER 18-19, AND WILL HOST A PRESENTATION AND. RECEPTION: 
DATE: SEPTEMBER 18, 1986 TIME: 8:00-10:00 PLACE: ALUMNI ROOM -MORRIS INN 
* REFRESHMENTS SERVED * 

Tuesday, September 9, 1986 -page 13 

Jones. Nebraska moved from eigth to sixth in the national rankings on the strength of its 34-17 victory Saturday night. 


Idle Michigan falls to third-ranked; Sooners, 'Canes claim top 2 spots 
Associated Press Oklahoma's impressive 38-3 drubbing of fourth-ranked UCLA 
Michigan will now be the third­earned the Sooners 55 of 59 ranked team in the nation when first-place votes and I, 175 of a it faces Notre Dame this Satur­possible I, 180 points from a day. nationwide panel of 59 sports 
Oklahoma remained a writers and sportscasters. runaway leader Monday in the As­Meanwhile, Miami upped its sociated Press' first regular­record to 2-0 by defeating No. season colle~e football poll while 13 Florida 23-15. The Hurricanes 
Miami. Fla., nosed out idle Mic­received one first-place vote and hi~an for second place. I, 050 points in climbin~ from tM &6 iiiMiiii&U M \Mi M2 ¥ \i6WiSM MiiM \12 iillfflili\i6 i& Mi D 
A New Approach 
Represent your hall on the OCN, the new campus network designed to gather student opinion on issues which affect the community. 
For consideration, please submit your name, hall and phone number to: 
Frank Malone OCN manager The Observer 3rd Floor LaFortune 239-5303 
DEADLINE: Fri. Sept. 12 
i AM&II a M2 gse ¥2 UDt\il2 ¥ AMiM A¥WGitffiii ;;; G&IMi 
JUNIORS Interested in working on 
' 


JUNIOR PARENTS 
WEEKEND 
Please pick up an application in the student activities office (3rd floor-LaFortune) or room 121 Breen­Phillips. All applications must be returned to Student Activities Office by 5:00, Friday, September 12. 

JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 
third place to second. Oklahoma 
visits Miami on Sept. 27 in an 
attempt to avenge the only loss 
the Sooners suffered en route to 
the 1985 national champion­
ship. 

Michigan slipped from second 
place to third with one first-place 
vote and 1.026 points. It's op­
ponent. Notre Dame, remained 
unranked. 
UCLA's embarrassment at the 
hands of Oklahoma dropped the 
Bruins from fourth place to 16th. 
Alabama, a 42-10 winner over 
Vanderbilt, moved up from fifth 
to fourth with 986 points. 
Penn State crushed Temple 
45-15 and rose from sixth to fifth 
with one first-place vote and 952 
points. The other first-place bal­
lot went to Nebraska, which 
trounced No. I I Florida State 34­
1 7 and jumped from eighth to 
sixth with 896 points. 
Texas A&'M, which gets under­
way Saturday night at LSU, 
remained in seventh place with 
868 points while Tennessee 
downed New Mexico 35-21 and 
went from I Oth to eighth with 
713 points. 
Auburn, No. 14 in the preseason poll, cracked the Top Ten by whipping Tennessee-Chattanooga 42­
14. The Tigers received 509 points. That put them seven points ahead of Ohio State, which slipped from ninth to 
I Oth with 502 points after losing to Alabama 16-I 0 in the Kickoff Classic on Aug. 27. 
The new rankings include the same 20 teams as the preseason poll, with some rearranging of positions. .-The Second Ten consists of Brigham Young, Baylor, Florida, LSU, Florida State, UCLA, washington, Arkansas, Georgia and Michigan State. 
The preseason Second Ten listed Florida State, Baylor, Florida, Auburn. LSU, Geor­gia and Washington tied for 16th, BYU, Arkansas and Mic­higan State. 
Thanks toyou... itworks... forALLOFUS 
o~w.u 
~-----------------------­
~ ---~-----~­
-
The Observer Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 14 

Notre Dame tennis player Natalie Illig concentrates as she prepares to serve in a match last spring. In moving from doubles to singles, Illig posted a 2-1 record over the weekend at the Midwest fall Invitational. Sheila Horox has the details 
at right. 




Eager 
continuedfrompage 16 
only freshman to earn that award last season. 
The young Irish squad will have to prepare quickly for a "tough season" in the eyes of the coach. Looking at the schedule, Notre Dame faces three Big Ten schools -Mic­higan, Michigan State and Purdue -all highly regarded squads. 
Over October break, the team will head east to Boston for four matches against several strong teams. 
After finishing the 1985 campaign with a 12-8-2 mark and a third-place finish in the Midwest Regionals, Linden­feld is eager to lead her squad into a schedule of schools from different divisions. 

Want to write sports? 
• 

Does your name appear below? 
• 

• 
George Trauss. Patrick Costello, Jim Carrol, Ocnnls o·tsrlcn, Krl-,t~ Ferry.. Mark ~on lie, ~arc f'arkcr. Richard Dornan. Amy ~'kAuliflc, William Onuu:rt. Ken I"Jchtu-r. f~oh 11ari~J. ~\~~argo '11achccct. Shida t1oro)l., '11khat·IIS.to..ilt.•, "1drk f'. Uynw. Dmld "1<Cdrlh~. Kt•\ln '1cCor· mac.k. .la) Hinlkt·r. Thcrt•sa Kt•ll). Tt·ct :-;tu-t.'llcm. ~h.'H' "1t·narflt't', Pt'lt' l.,trlt·ur..krt• recoh. "1allol) Amw Cht'H). Scan Kohen, Karen Thompson, Kt~jd Kkhtcr. Da\id Cmlll\cm, IK·nnio, Cantwell, Harf} Shu)loc.k. Joann Whltllcl<l, ""'aureen lk\"1111. ~all OT>unncl. Aldn Sil\l<li, Craig Hor\'alh, F.cl Yc\'011, Tim clark, Oa\'lcl Holland, John rarlc}. Christopher l.cupolcl, ratrlcktircnnan. Paul rastorc. f.rlc ~hlcla, Kcrric Wagner. .Jim Carrig. Nl(k Capc.~u~. John 
J. Harrll, Kelly To~A·nshcnc •• Brian O'Gara. ~Oil) ~ahoney. Rohhit• Geist. S<~an Rdlly. Laura 
•
Galus. Clart• ttausmann. Jane Shea, Sue o·connor. Kat• A1111 fidrHdl, Nctn<} C..tmpl>t.'ll.
• 
If you signed up to write sports at Activities Night or are interested in writing. there will be a short meeting tomorrow 
night at 8 in the Observer office. Please try to make it so we can get you in on all the action of Notre Dame sports. 
Get Involved With 
usc 
Undergraduate Schools .. 
Committee Be a representative of the Admissions Office to your high school over October or Christmas break. 
Call Pat (X3584) or Brian (X1640) or stop by the Admissions Office (I I 3 Administration Bldg.) for more info. Application deadline Sept. 10. 




Irish women's tennis competitive in Midwest Fall Invitational action 
By SHEILA HOROX 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team competed in the Midwest Fall Invitational this past weekend in Bloomington, Indiana. The Irish turned in an impressive performance among the eight teams represented, sending four players to the consolation finals and one doubles team to the finals in their respective draws. 
The tournament. l10wever, was plagued with weather problems, forcing the cancel­lation of most of Sunday's ac­tion. But the rain did not dampen the optimism of second-year Head Coach Mic­hele Gelfman. 
The purpose of the tourna­ment was not directed at team standings, but rather the emphasis was on allowing the players to get as much match play as possible. No team results were kept, but after the first two days ofcom­petition Notre Dame had ac­cumulated enough points to place third, which explains Gelfman's praise of her team's play. 
Co-captains Tammy Schmidt and Michelle Dasso lead a young Irish squad into their second season at the Division I level, and on their quest for a fourth consecutive North Star Conference title. 
Dasso and freshman Step­hanie Tolstedt overcame opening-match defeats to ad­vance to one of Sunday's consolation finals. Both players were placed in the number-one draw bracket. which eventually resulted in their meeting each other in the consolation final. 
Dasso slipped past Sandra Goern of Illinois, 7-6, 4-6, 6­
1. Having won the opening set in a tie-breaker, Dasso found herself down a break in the second set. which she eventially lost. In the final set Dasso altered her strategy, charging the net which un­raveled her opponent. 
Tolstedt also played in a pivital match. She emerged victorious over Ellen Moeller­ing of Southern Illinois University-Carbondale, 2-6, 6-2, 7-5. Tolstedt showed great composure despite losing the first set and being down 1-2 in the second set. 
In the consolation final Dasso defeated teammate Tolstedt, 6-I, 6-3. 
Tammy Schmidt finished with a 2-1 record in the num­ber two draw. The Irish co­captain bested Sari Dinerman of Northern Illinois, 7-5, 6-1, and Jennifer Allen of Purdue, 7-5, 3-6, 6-4. Her only loss was a sea-saw battle with Meg Boyle of Miami (Ohio). 
Alice Lohrer, another im­pressive freshman, finished with a 2-I singles record and advanced to the consolation final in the second draw, which was rained out. Lohrer crushed Miami's Jan Filus, 6­2, 6-0 and Purdue's Kris Dick­en, 1-6, 6-4, 6-2. 
Sophomore Natlie Illig, who played in her first singles matches for Notre Dame, reached the the consolation final in her respective draw with a 2-I record. 
"We always have the goal 

HAVE UNANSWERED QUESTIONS-­
INTRO-ECON STUDENTSI
of a winning season, and 
ABOUT GOD?
being a Division I school, we 
Skp BEyond. Traditi.onal Studyi~ 
do not want any losses to our Division Ill competition," 
Find the answers in an honest search through the Bible. 
Learn, rEvie-w , and. i-ncreasE tfOUr 
noted the coach. "There is a 
It speaks for itself. 

test-tak.inq capabiLities with the
chance for every player to contribute and they are all 
Join us every Friday, 6:30,19525 Pendle. 
RUfrlN/U.1tl:GORy: I:CONOM-'1CS 
hungry for victories." 
Call277-8471 for info or rides. 
lnkrcu::tive Cornpukrized R..evie.w
Valparaiso, an up-and­coming team, will field many returnees from their young team of last season. Last year 
CAMPUS BIBLE FELLOWSHIP 
ONLY $14.95
the Irish won easily, 9-1. 
Notre Dame's roster is F=======Ciassof '87 ==========~ abundant with youth and en­
Softwe~re e~vaile~ble 1n me~ny other titles.
Last Chance 
thusiasm. Freshmen Mindy 

Check your texts, me111 foro free ce~te~log
Breen, Jill Skonicki and Debbie Charlesworth may 
n 

prove to be significant con­
MAIL TO: SOFT PRODUCTIONS, 100 CENTER
Seniortributors to the Irish team. 
MISHAWAKA, IN 46544 or cell 219-255-3911 
Portrait Correction 
Signups 

I l 
The story on the offensive 

MASTERCARD VISA EXP DAH __. line in yesterday's Observer 
CHARGE •

incorrectly identified Tom 
SIGNATURE

Freeman as the only three­
APPLE ____ IBM ___
ENCLOSED CHECK

time monogram winner. John 
Tues Sept. 9-Wed Sept. 10 3 pm-5 pm 
NAME monogram winner. Freeman 
Askin is the only three-time 
ADDRESS has won one mono!=lram. 
Dome Office-3rd floor LaFortune 
CITY _____,______ STAT[ ------liP _________ 





~~c:IC3L~---------------------------------------------Tu-es-da_y_.s_ep-te_m_be_r_9._19-86----pa-ge--15
Bloom County 

Zeto 
Campus 
noon: Brown bag seminar, Kellogg Institute, 131 Decio 
4 p.m.: meeting,  f~usiness  Plan Contest,  122 Hayes­ 
Healy.  
5:30  p.m.:  "Welcome  Lou  Week,"  senior class,  War  

Memorial 
6:45 p.m.: Seminar, "But I Knew Him," SMC Student Govt., Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall 
7 p.m.: Seminar, Washington D.C. trip for Fall Break, esc 
7 p.m.: Open tlouse, University Ministry, Badin Hall 
7 p.m.: Meeting, Engineering Senior placement. library auditorium 
7 p.m.: Film, "Letter from an Unknown Woman," An· nenberg Auditorium 


CLASSIFIEDS 

are accepted every day until 3 pm in The Observer offices 3rd floor LaFortune.. 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Skin orchards 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Spar 5 Family member 9 Strut 
14 Can. prov. 15 Winglike 16 Brownish gray 17 Bridge term 18 Finger feature 19 Aquatic animal 20 Lonely game 22 Hollow stone 23 Facial feature 24 Evening 
in Paris 26 Piquancy 29 Meal 33 West Indies 
island 37 Comfort 39 Margarine 40 -B. Anthony 41 Girl from 
Plains 42 UFO pilot 43 Red deer 44 God of war 45 Like lather 46 Tooth covering 48 Ado 50 Noted folk 
singer 52 Piquancy 57 Schubert or 
Liszt 60 Vegas game 63 Slow in music 64 Flying prefix 65 Lounge 66 Charged 
particle 67 Actress Teri 68 Bone: pref. 69 "Winnie the 
Pooh" author 70 Gaelic 71 Poet's word 
DOWN 1 Billiards 
shot 2 Amalgam 3 Hackneyed 4 Language of 
India 5 Thick sauce &Jai­


7 Duo 8 City on the Rhone 
9 Cheap cigar 10 Pool game 11 Car 12 Hied 13 In this place 21 Mythological 
giant 25 Bauxite e.g. 27 Approach 28 Pastimes 30 Inter­31 Appear 32 Singer Bennett 33 Tennis great 34 Rack's partner 35 Carter's 
alma mater 36 Net game 49 Shun 56 Allude 38 Procedure: 51 Put on 57 Deception 
abbr. 53 Hosiery 58 Painter 42 Evil demon: material Guido 
var. 54 Gander's mate 59 Indigo plant 44 Pub order 55 Related on 61 Endure 47 Gr. soldier mother's side 62 Goes wrong 

Attention Campus Bands and D.J.'s WE WANT TO KNOW THAT YOU EXIST 

Register with the SAB Musical Entertainment 
Commission (lower level Lafortune) to be put on a list of available artists 



Tuesday, September 9, 1986-page 16


SRorts 

Irish offense to feature ; talented receiver corps 
With all the attention given Sports Writer to Brown, it would be easy to overlook the rest of the 
Some positions on Notre group. But that is a danger­Dame's football team may be ous thing to do according to giving the coaching staff Receiver Coach Pete Cordelli. headaches, but the receiving 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
"Ifanother team tries to keycorps is not one of them. In 

on Timmy Brown, they are

fact Irish opponents figure to making a mistake," he says.
be scratching their heads "Any one of these guys canmuch more often because of break loose and make the bigthis talented group.
.. -. 
play.
Leading the group is 
'There is so much talent atflanker Tim Brown, who had 

these positions that you can­25 catches for 397 yards and 

not be looking for just onethree touchdowns last year. 

person."

The multi-talented junior will Despite the wealth of tal­be used extensively as a pass ent, do not expect the Irish toreceiver and as a ball carrier become "Air Holtz" in the out of the wishbone. Head near future. Cordelli says the Notre Dame flanker Reggie Ward makes a Rietbrock previews the talented Irish receiv­Coach Lou Holtz has made it 
coaching staff still firmly fingertip catch in a game last year. Rick ing corps in the story at left. 
very clear that he intends to believes the running game isgive Brown plenty of oppor­essential.
tunities to handle the ball. 
Season opener 
"We've got some excellent
Brown was recently chosen inside people, so it would un­

as the fifth-best receiver in fair to them and to our entire
the nation in a poll conducted 


ND field hockey eager to compete 
team if we went strictly with

by The Sporting News. the passing game," he says.
Scheduled to start at split By MARGOT MACHECA that this will help offset the monogram winner Benet end is senior Milt Jackson, "Winning teams have to be Sports Writer team's inexperience. DeBerry, who is also a strong
able to run the football.

who returns after an illness Tri-captains Mary Wagner, defensive contributor for the sidelined him last season. He "It certainly is nice, though, The Notre Dame women's Meg McGlinn and Corrine Irish. had 28 receptions two years to have this kind of talent field ·hockey team opens its DiGiacomo look to be the Despite the graduation of 
ago. around to complement the 1986 season today against backbone to support the Irish goalie Patti Gallagher, the 
Reggie Ward and Alvin Mil­running game." Valparaiso University. The this season. DiGiacomo, a Irish arc strong in the net. ler also figure heavily in the The tight end picture is also eighth meeting between the senior forward and three-time "Junior goalie Mary Jean offensive plans. Ward started looking rather rosy. This was two teams is scheduled to get monogram winner, is just Beetel is looking good," all but one game at split end not always the case, however, underway at 4 p.m. on Alumni three goals away from he­noted Lindenfeld. last season before switching as Holtz explained at last Field. coming Notre Dame's career to flanker in the spring. Miller week's press conference. After losing ten of eleven scoring leader. In front of Bectcl in the is looking to avoid the if1iuries "We looked at the tight end starters from last year's team, After winning most im­backfield is sophomore stan­that have limited him in two position with a great deal of the Irish are eager to begin proved player honors last dout Caroline Fkrezny, one of previous seasons and put to­trepidation going into the their rebuilding year. season, Wagner, a junior, only four returning gether a successful year. season, but Joel Williams has "Each girl has a hunger and joins DiGiacomo and McGlinn monogram winners and the Junior Tony Eason also will dedication to win," said Head on the forward line. Another see time at split end. see RECEIVERS, page 11 Coach Jill Lindenfeld, noting scoring threat is two-year see EAGER, page 14 
The Observer /File Photo 


What is Schembechler scared of? 
Notre Dame vs. Michigan. 
This Saturday's opening football game is a long-awaited one indeed. Aside from being Notre Dame's first contest of the 1986 season and the debut of Head Coach Lou Holtz, the game pits the Irish against the nation's third­ranked team. 
Now I'm not going to predict a Notre Dame victory, and I'm certainly not going to say the Irish are too overmatched to pull out a win either. Plenty of optimism exists on this campus for an opening-day victory over the powerful visitors from the Big I 0. 
Let's take a look at the attitudes on the Ann Arbor, Mich., campus for a moment. Michigan students have every right to stroll into Notre Dame Stadium in a few days with their heads high. Their football team is one of the preseason favorites to take the national cham­pionship, while Notre Dame did not make the Associated Press preseason poll for the first time since 1964. 
They would have to be fools to think they aren't going to win. 
One man in Ann Arbor, however, already has announced that he thinks Notre Dame is the favored team. That's all fine and dandy, right? F.vervone has a right to his opinion, doesn't he? 
Tile man's name is Bo Schembechler, and he happens to be Michigan's head coach. 
"The Notre Dame team is a talented ballclub," Schembechler said at a recent luncheon in Ann Arbor. "I tried to recruit most of those players. They'll be a good team. 
"Lou tHoltzl knows our football. He knows our players. He's played them for two years. There's no doubt that from a scouting stand­point. the advantage is to Notre Dame." 

Schembechler went on to say that the addi­tion of former Pittsburgh head coach Foge Fazio as Irish defensive coordinator gives Notre Dame the potential for two defensive systems -Min­nesota's (where Holtz used to coach) and Pit-

Marty Strasen 
Assistant Sports Editor 
tsburgh's. Thus, the Michigan skipper favors the Irish. 
Gee, I wonder if he really means that. 
Seriously now, how can a coach in Schem­bechler's position say such a thing with a straight face. It's not-that the Irish don't have a chance to win -they do. But one look at the 1986 Wolverines should have Schemhechler licking his chops for the season to start not flapping them in an effort to give his team some kind of underdog status or psychological edge. 
Take a look, coach. 
Michigan finished the 1985 season with a I O­I-l record, downing Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl by a 27-23 score and earning the No.2 ranking in the final national polls. The Wolverines were also one of the younger teams in the country last year, and 18 starters from that strong squad are back this season. 
Yep, sounds like an underdog to me. 
Senior quarterback Jim Harbaugh finished last season with the highest passing efficiency in Division I football, completing 145 of 227 
r. 639), for I,976 yards and 18 touchdowns. In addition, Harbaunh was the highest-rated signal-caller in !he country with I63.7 points. 
Notre Dame will send senior Steve lkuerlcin on the field, a quarterback who struggled last season after suffering a shoulder injury in his sophomore year. 
In the running department the Wolverines have junior Jamie Morris in the backfield once again. A proven college tailback, Morris has picked up I, 603 yards in his first two seasons. Every player who carried the ball last year for Michigan is back, and a veteran offensive line which avarages 284 pounds per player will lead the way. 
For the Irish, sophomore speedster Mark Green will likely make his first career start at tailback, behind a line whose only returning starter is fifth-year senior Shawn t1cffern at right guard. 
What was Schembechler thinkinn when he 
made those statements'? 
Perhaps he's afraid of Holtz' No. 20 position 
on the list of winningest active Division 1-A 
coaches. After all, Schembechler is only fourth. 
t1e mentioned the fact that Holtz has played 
Michigan twice before while at Minnesota. The 
Wolverines won both times. 
Sun;. Notre Dame can win. I think they've got 
a good chance of coming out on top. But it 
would be an upset. 
I didn't hear too many Chicago Bears' coaches 
saying the New England Patriots were favored 
in the Super Bowl this past January. 
For the head coach of Michigan to say his 
team is the underdog in this one, that's just 
BO-crap. 

see UNDERDOG, page 12 






