Off-campus crime -page 5 


Reagan administration orders expulsion of 25 UN Soviet diplomats 
Associated Press 
Washington -The Reagan ad­ministration yesterday ordered the expulsion of 25 U.N.-based Soviet diplomats, but said the action was unrelated to the spy charges Moscow has filed against American journalist Nicholas Daniloff. 
State Department spokesman Bernard Kalb said the expulsion was a follow-up to a U.S. decision announced six months ago, to force cutbacks in the Soviets's U.N. presence. Tile administration has maintained that the Soviet staff at the U.N. is disproportionately large and engages in spy activities. For its part, the Soviets have in­sisted that the required reductions violate the obligations the United States has undertaken as host coun­try for the U.N. 
The names of the personnel af­fected by the order were turned over to Soviet officials by the U.S. ambassador to the U.N., Vernon Walters. The 25 were given until Oct. I to leave the country. 
The Soviet U.N. mission im­
mediately signaled that it will resist 
the order. 
"I think there will be a protest," Valentin G. Karymov, a senior counselor at the Soviet mission, told a reporter by telephone. the diplomat, however, said the U.S. note would first be studied by Moscow befor a formal response is make. 
While the administration has 
promised retaliation in the Daniloff 
case, Kalb was categorical in stating that the expulsion order "is not related" to that issue. Secretary of State George Shultz had said Tuesday night that the United States has a "plan of action" for dealing with the Daniloff cas but declined to give details. He said the issue has "put a cloud" over Soviot-American relations. 
Last March, the Reagan ad­ministration announced that the Soviets would be required to reduce their U.N. staff by from 275 to 170 over a two -year period in in­crements of roughly 25 every six months. 
Of the 105 to be sent home, a small number would be attached to the staffs of two Soviet republics, Ukrainia and Byelorussia, both of 
which have U.N. seats.  All25 aff­ 
fected  by  yesterday's  announce­ 
ment,  however,  represent  
Moscow's delegation.  

But Kalb refused to say whether any had engaged in spying. 
The Soviets have 243 diplomats attached to the U.N. while the two Soviet republics have a combined total of 32. 
A U.S. official who asked not to be identified said the Soviet total has dropped below 243, but added that the Soviets have never in­dicated that any of those who departed did so as a result of the ex­pulsion order of last March. 
In any case, he said, the Soviets will be operating under a ceiling of 218 until the United States orders the withdrawal of an additional group of diplomats, presumabley next March. 


South African tragedy kills at least 177 miners 
Associated Press 
Evander, South Africa -Weary rescue crews collected the bodies of miners sprawled along a mile-deep shaft that collected the bodies of miners sprawled along a mile-deep shaft that a raging fire turned into a death trap for at least 177 men yesterday. It was South Africa's worst gold mine disaster. 
Five miners still were missing and believed dead after the Tues­day fire at Kinross Gold Mine released lethal clouds of chemical fumes in the No. 2 shaft where about 2,400 men were working. 
Survivors told of being trapped, unable to breath, of clouds of smoke and of their desperation as they watched their friends fall dead. "Only about seven of us made it to the surface," said Komiti 
Mereko, a black driller with one mining crew. 
Officials said 235 of the miners were hospitalized with burns, in­juries and chest pains from inhaling the fumes that filled the mine after a fire was accidentally started by a welding machine. 
The miners "didn't stand a chance," according to Dick Grenfell, a 38-year-old Briton who survived the fire. ''They just ran in­to a wall of smoke and must have dropped like flies." 
Most of South Africa's miners are black and union representing black miners called the accident "a clear indictment of the industry." A statement said, "It has required tragedy after tragedy and the loss of many lives before the industry and government pay attention to safety standards." 
Most of the bodies were found along a mil-long horizontal tunnel, some in groups and some alone ­men who perished as the frantically sought a way out. 
"The smoke started coming in. Then the oxygen was gone. I couldn't breathe," said Bedron Siphoso from his bed at the Winkelhaak Mine Hospital. 
He said he fainted and when he came to, "I saw many of the others were dead." Rescue crews saved him. 
Trucks drove in and out of the 
mine compound, and men with 
hoses washed just from the hoist 
cage that brought bodies to the sur­
face. 
The accident occurred just days after the Chamber of Mines, the association of mining companies, reported its best safety -figures ever for gold mines. 

The Observer/Robert Jones 
Senior Mar~a Cintron, judicial coordinator for the University, of­fers legal adv1ce to off-campus party-goers last night in the Library auditorium. See story below. 


Students learn of party raid rights 

By BUD LUEPKE Senior Staff Reporter 
Police will continue toviolate student rights until citations are contested and precedents set. This was the message Legal Aid brought to a group of frustrated students last night in the Library auditorium. 
Mario Zepponi and Glen Guanousky, co-directors of Legal Aid and third year Notre Dame law students, discussed the rights and options students have when caught in a party raid and facing a citation. 
Zepponi and Guanousky said they wanted to emphasize that this is a "very serious matter". Guanousky said students who thought their rights had been violated should see a lawyer. But "even if you are right, it's going to take time, it's going to take money and even then you may not win," Guanousky said. 
Zepponi said if an individual student approaches an attorney with his case, he will probably be advised that it isn't worth the time or the money. "But if a group of students get together chances are it will be more ap­pealing to an attorney. The at­torney might handle it for free or at a discount," he said. 
Maria Cintron, Judicial Coordinator for the University, also spoke. She said that in order fur a clear policy to be set "it's probably going to take so­meone to go through the process of opposing and litigating." Zepponi and Guanousky agreed that precedents on this issue were needed. 

The audience, many of whom had been issued citations from area police, questioned the use of breathylyzers and undercover officers by the police. However, no specific answers could be given. "It's a fact-specific situa­tion," said Guanousky. 
Guanousky said that statutes require a police officer to have 
a warrant before entering a home, "but there's a lot of other questions under that." Guanousky said if an officer has probable cause that a crime is being committed, he can enter without a warrant. What con­stitutes probable cause? "That's the question," said Guanousky. 
Lieutenant Aaron Keene of the Indiana Excise Police said undercover units have been used for years. "They walk in like anyone else," said Keene. If they are asked for an invitation or told to go, Keen said they must leave. Otherwise they will look for minors drinking and alcohol being sold without a permit, Keene said. 
Zapponi said Indiana statutes 
see RIGHTS, page 3 

Judge accepts woman's plea in the case of Kevin Hurley 
By MARK DICKINSON Senior Staff Reporter 
Mary Beth Gallivan, the alleged driver of the car that struck Kevin Hurley, appeared before the St. Joseph County Superior Court yesterday and pleaded guilty to leaving the scene of an accident in­volving a serious bodily injury. 
Judge Gerome Frese accepted the plea and now must determine Gallivan's sentence for the Class D felony which carries a maximum pnson term of up to 4 years and a $10,000 fine. He said he will an­nounce his decision of October 27 at 9 a.m. in St. Joseph County Superior Court. 
Gallivan testified that she was driving north on U.S. 31 at approx­imately 2:30 A.M. on September 7th and hit something that caused her windshield to break. She said she kept on going and later reported the incident to the police. 
That same evening, Kevin Hurley, a Howard Hall freshman, was critically injured after being struck by a car which failed to stop. 
When asked by Judge Frese if she had been drinking before her accident, Gallivan r,eplied she had a beer and a half but that she was sober. 
By pleading guilty, Gallivan relinquished her right to a trial by jury and left the sentencing to Judge Frese. For sentencing pur­

poses, Judge Frese said he can reduce the felony charge to a Class A Misdemeanor (which is for leav­ing the scene of an accident.) that carries a lesser fine of up to 1 year in prison and a $5000 fine. 
Construction will force detour of traffic near ND 
Special to Tbe Observer 
Construction of indoor tennis courts north of Cartier Field will begin immediately, obstruction traffic on the road along the pre­sent courts, according to Don Dedrick, physical plant director of the University. 
Workers will begin digging up the road between Ivy Road and Gate 4 of the ACC, forcing students who use that road to make a detour on their way to campus. The obstuction is expected to last six weeks, Dedrick said. 
Dedrick said safety lights will be set up around the construction site to warn students who walk to school. Dedrick said those students should use the road south of Carier Field that runs by gates 7 and 8 of theACC. Students driving or riding bikes should detour to Bulla Rd., Dedrick said. Bikes can also go on the road south of Cartier Field, he added. 
Dedrick said he apologizes for any inconvience the construction causes. 

The Observer Thursday, September 18, 1986-page 2 


Pick up an entry blank at any library on campus Deadline: Se tember 26, 1986 
THE KING SAYS, 
"GOOD LUCK 
IRISH." 




Holy Cross Fathers 
·Vocational Counseling on campus at Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 
How do I know if I have a vocation to the priesthood? 
Wat is the academic and fonnation program for becoming a priest? 
Wat scholarships and financial aid are available for seminary training? 
Wat are the various apostolic ministries of the Holy Cross priests? 
Howdolpray if I'm thinking of a vocation to the priesthood and I'm not sure? 

For personal, confidential interview with no obligation, please write or call a vocation director Box 541, Notre Dame, IN 
46556 For appointment, call between 8:30am & 4:30pm 219-239-6385 
Fr. Michael Couhig,C.S.C. Fr. Paul Doyle,C.S.C 

The Observer Thursday, September 18, 1986 -page 3 
Terrorists strike fifth bombing site in Paris clothing store demolition 

Associated Press 
Paris -Terrorists struck the French capital yesterday for the fifthtime in 10 days, demolishing a clothing store with a bomb thrown from a car. Five people were killed and 58 injured, authorities said. 
Three people were killed and more than 100 injured in the previous bombings, which promp­ted the government to adopt tough anti-terrorist measures. Two groups seeking to free three im­prisoned Middle Easterners have issued conflicting claims of respon­sibility for those attacks. 
One woman passer-by was blown apart by yesterday's blast in central Paris, and a witness said another victim was lifted several yards into 


Rights 
continued from page 1 
do not address the use of a breathylyzer outside of driving violations. "Our impression is that it (the use of the breathylyzer at party raids) has never been done before," said Zepponi. Can students refuse it? "If you don't take it, it seems like they're going to take you down to the police station the air. "It is an incredible sight, many women, children, blood everywhere," said a witness who refused to give his name. 
The bomb was tossed from a black BMW carrying two mustached -men, one of whom rolled down the window and tossed the bomb at the Tait clothing and textile store in the Montparnasse district, said Laurent Davenas, an assistant state prosecutor. 
Windows were blown out at several businesses. The sidewalk in front of the Tati store was covered with glass, debris and bleeding vic­tims, many crying out for help. Police cleared a plaza, the Place du 18 Juin, and used it as a helicopter landing pad to evacuate those with the gravest injuries. 
anyway," Guanousky said. 
Guanousky said a citation is an arrest and from what he understood from the pro­secutor, it will go on a student's record. 
The meeting was organized by Student Senator John Gardiner. Gardiner said he thought students needed information regarding their rights and op­tions. "A lot of students have received citations and unknow­ingly maybe their rights have been violated. I've heard from a 

***********************************~ ~ The JMD Performing Arts Series ~ ~ presents * 
~ * 
~ * 
~ Bonnie Corky : : ~ KOLOC & SIEGEL !* 
~ * 
~ in concert : 
~ * 
~ * 
~ * 
~ * 
~ 'Bonnie Koloc Is a singer of enormous range, charm : il oneharsma.I ..' * 
~ il 'They love Corky Siegel in Lincoln Center...' ** : NEW YORK TIMES * 
~ * 
~ Friday, Sept.19 8 pm ~ : O'Laughlln Auditorium Saint Mary's ~ : Ticket Information: 284-4626 ~ 
'*********************************** 

LYONS HALL Volleyball Tournament 
for 
A spokesman for the public hospital authority said 19 of those injured in the 5:25 p.m. bombing were in serious condition. 
"The most seriously wounded were treated on the sidewalk in front of Tati," said one witness. "I saw people dying." 
"It was horrible," said another witness. "A young woman, her legs cut, had half of her face torn off. All you could see was bleeding bodies." 
Premier Jacques Chirac called an emergency meeting of his top security ministers immediately after the attack. 
In Beirut, an Arabic statement signed by the Committee for Solidarity threated to launch at­tacks in the United States. 
number of friends that authorities have handled the situation in a manner that might incite a crowd and lead to harassment. That's what I'm concerned about, "Gardiner said. 
SENIOR INFORMAL SIGN·UPS 
TONIGHT! Thursday, Sept.17 
2:00 •5:00 pm West Basement of LaFortune 
*The Class of '87 will be informai.Chicago-style' throughout the weekend of the 3rd, 4th and 5th of October. 
*A $50.00 package fee will include 2 days and 2 nights lodging, and a Saturday buffet breakfast at the Lakeshore Drive Holiday Inn in downtown Chicago. 
*Also available for$8.50 will be tickets for Second City showings on both Friday and Saturday evenings. 
*A locale has also been established for seniors to watch and celebrate as the Irish crush the Alabama Crimson Tide!! 
*Hotel rooms will be pre-registered in groups of 4, so grab your friends and sign up for this exclusive excursion to the Windy City 

Distributor For 

Mountain t"an Nut ~ fruit Co. 


Will be opening a store in the newly remodeled Lafortune Student Center. We are now accepting applications for the following positions: 

.........-

Stqre Manager 2 Part·Time In Stqre Sales Peqple Assistant Stqre Manager 4 Outside Sales Peqple
1"' 

Applications are now being 
1"' accepted at the Student Activities Office. Interviews will be conducted on September 18th and 19 th on the Notre Dame campus. 
1 
I 
1 
1 
.,"1 1 
1 I 
1 
1 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 18, 1986 -page 4 
I ht' Uh\1'1'1 t'l '\,otrc. I ),llltt· olllt t lut .linI 1111 tlu t 1!11 d 1\111 H , d I.IIHrt liiH "tllllt'11l(t'lllt·r ,lttt"Jlh\l.t'''lln.I.Hht.r11'11l).:ll1tll1 1),11Jillllld IJ'IH \1tlfHI.I\ thrtHI).:h lnd.t\ /h('fJIJ.,t•rtt'l ,,11111 \1.tn ,,,tfllt hlt.lltd ttniiH. tl11rd ll•u•r ••I ll.t~g.tr < ttllq.,:t' (c. ntt·r ,ut c:pl .. tl.t'''fu,t.. lr••l11 1.! ~11 p f11 1111111 "-p 111 \1••11 
d.n til• •ugh t rrd.1' I >t .uiJuf< f1 1r rH \l d.u c l.l''''" d .. ,.. ~ p rn \II ( I., .. ._,tu d .. IIHI'\1 ht prt:p.nd t llht JIll pt f'•CI11 ••~ II\ 111.111 ( ll.lf).!t '')lit. t llh pt r 11\t 1. h.U.h



Classifieds 
tt·r, ltT lf,l\ 
r 
I 
, r
, 
,
, 
r
, 
I 
,r r 


Accent 
Thursday, September 18, 1986-pageS 
Off-Campus CRIME: 
was that in the lease too? 
CAROLINE GILLESPIE house when there are people at 
features copy editor home. Also, burglars are reluc­
tant to break into a house if the 
It's a weekend. Any weekend. house is well lit and if there is You're out at a party. So are your any sound coming from the roommates. Your house is house. empty. You didn't leave on many In late August another student lights. You stumble in at 3 a.m. residence in the neighborhood Your back door is missing. So is was burglarized. Approximately your stereo, your television, your $7,000 of jewelry and stereo bike... equipment was stolen. 
Crime is a problem of every "It was really disgusting to off-campus student. Life on walk in and see it," said one res­campus seems stining, so the in­ident speaking of the break-in. dependent types move off "A lot of things were thrown campus in search ofan extended around. I guess they (the freedom. But off-campus life can burglars) were pretty mad be­be such a responsibility that per­cause they didn't get any cash," haps it's no longer worth the ef­she said. fort. According to the residents, the 
For residents of the Northeast burglars took three tape decks, Neighborhood, life off campus three Walkman personal stereos has proved to be one big chal­and several pieces of jewelry. lenge. Over the summer, the They broke into a C:oor that was residents of one house in the secured with only a chain lock. area stored some oftheir belong­"We kind of know who it was ings in the house's basement. and we're getting no cooperation When they arrived back on from the South Bend police," she campus, their basement was ran­said. "There are a lot of black sacked and a stereo, among other things, was stolen. 
'It was really dis­
"We're upset." said one resi­dent. "We're trying to keep the 
gusting to walk in 
doors locked." But keeping the doors locked 
and see it,' said 
lost a charm in the burglary. One Usually a burglar knows what doesn't seem to be enough. 
resident said she had and the he is after. He has either seen it 
one resident 
boy then told her that he knew in a window or has watched a 
speaking of tbe 
who had robbed them and that resident bring it into the house. 
he could get back the charm for In some cases, an empty box left 
$5.
break-in. 

out on the curb for the garbage 
men is incentive enough for a kids on the street who kind of The boy did bring back the 
burglar to explore the premises. ingratiate themselves to you. piece of jewelry that Saturday 
If the burglar wants to get into a Then they hang around and talk night. Before he arrived, a South 
house, he'll find a way. to you. We didn't even know this Bend police officer arrived at the 
one kid (someone they believed house. He questioned the boy 
The residents who had their was involved in the burglary) un­and told him to come down to basement looted over the sum­til well after the robbery was the police station for more ques­mer had their door locked. The over. He had just hung around a tioning. He went in for question­burglars broke it down. few times and then after the rob­ing but was released because he 
On Sept. 19 a rock was thrown bery, he was there a lot." was under 18 years of age and through a window of that same had to have one of his parents house. The students living there At the time, the residents accompany him. He was asked still do not know whether it was thought the boy was not involved to return with one of his parents. an attempted break-in or not. in the burglary and was truly According to the residents, he 
"I think they tried to break in trying to help them. Now they are never reported back to the sta­and then. after they had broken not so sure. They said they tion. the glass they saw the bars on believe that the boy knows who 
Last week the residents checked back at the station to see if a bag of jewelry that had been recovered was theirs. As it. turned out, it wasn't. They asked the police why there had been no search warrant put out on the boy and the alleged burglar. The officer they talked to did not even know about the incidents of that 
Saturday night. 
Tbe strain of living in a bigb­
•

cnme area was too mucb for tbe students. 
The strain of living in a high­crime area was too much for the students. 
"We moved out because that kid was still hanging around our house. He would just walk in the front door when we were there and hang out. We didn't feel safe," she said. "We feel that it (the security system in the 

One of the off-aunpus houses that was the scene of a burglary. 
SALES CLERK, PART TIME EVEN­INGS AND WEEKENDS FOR "THE PEACOCK," A WOMAN'S APPAREL STORE IN NORTH VILLAGE MALL. APPLY TO MRS. ARNOLD IN THAT STORE, PLEASE. 
LEATHER .t LACE, Friday ...or are you too YOUD& to play with fuc7 
Who played the werewolf in THE HOWLING? DON McLEOD -MIME. Toniabt at 8 p.m. in Wubinaton Hall. S2 w!ND-SMC ID. S40cneral Public. 
CLASS OF 198711 

SENIOR INFORMAL SIGNUPSII 
Wed . .t Tbun., Sept 17.t 18 
2-S p.m. Lafortune basement 
Informal scheduled for weekend of October 3-S in Chicqo, and limited space available, so sisn up todayII II 
MALE 1: FEMALE MODELS NEEDED FOR PROFESSIONAL HAJR .t BEAU­TY SHOW SUN., 9-21, ON CAMPUS. CALL SUE FORSYTH AT THE SOUTH BEND MAJUUOTT AT 9 A.M. SATURDAYS 9-20. 
"NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­
SHIRTS  
COMING  SOON.. EXCELLENT  
QUALITY  
COMING  SOON...EXCELLENT  
QUALITY  

"NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­
SHIRTS -ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00 
ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00, ONLY $8.00 "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­SHIRTS "NOTRE DAME BEACH CLUB" T­SHIRTS 
PURDUEIIPARENTS ARE COMING. DESPERATLEY NEED TWO OAS. CALL JOHN SCHOEN AT 1143. PUR­DUEII 
house) was inadequate and negligent of the landlord." 
·1 he residents lost their secur­ity deposit when they broke their lease. They are presently seeking legal counselling in the situation. 
Unlike stereo equipment, jewelry does not have a serial 
number that makes it easily ident­
ifiable. Whether or not the res­
idents ever recover their stolen 
items is up to the South Bend 
police department. And the res­
idents don't feel that they are 
getting much cooperation. 
Perhaps the University should interact. But in the meantime, it's up to the off-campus students to protect themselves. Simple things like locking the doors and leaving lights on could deter burg­
lers from trying to enter. Many landlords are installing bars on the bottom-floor windows of their houses. They may not look too pretty but if they prevent a burglar from smuggling a stereo out of the house, they're worth their jail-like appearance. 
HUNGRY& Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery boun: Mooday-Tbunday Spm-12am; Friday Spm-2am; Saturday Spm-lam; Suoday 4pm-10pm. 
Anyo~~e wbo caD spell B-U-S-1-N-E-E-S-S il invited to the BUSINESS COLLEOB PICNIC today at G.-Field from 4:30 to 7:00. Free buqen, bot dop, and soft dimks will be served. VoJJcyball, softball, and a DJ will keep the party roc:kiD'. ­
you there! 
ATTN: MARKETING STUDENTS WHO HAVE HAD EXPERIENCE MAilKETING THE ND YELLOW PAGES. SIMILAR WORK AVAILABLE, PART TIME OR FULL TIME. APPLY AT 50985 US 31 NO., SOUTH BEND, IN PERSON ON FRI­DAY FROM 9-S or PHONE 277-8882. 
THE URGE! Hein to TheGiblets Rock .tRoD at LEE'S B.B.Q. THURSDAY 18tbA:FRIDAY 19th GETTHEURGEI 
REFRIGERATOR RENTAL REFRJGERATOR RENTAL Saturday Sept. 20th Stepan Center 10:00. I 2:00pm Stepan Center 
I do think we could bave fun. See you at Senior Bar 
HEY LEWIS: On your 21st birthday what 
do you want to do7 A IIIOOIC fiJht, eat 
chicken, draa younelf out of our room. 
or Barnaby's on ua7 Live It up, but watdl 
out for tbooc flna, 
Love the Bobley Twins 

Alabama 
Alabama 
IS more day until 
KAREN 
KAREN 
KAREN 
the windows and realized that the actual burglars were and per­they couldn't get in so they ran," haps was working with them. said one resident. The Saturday after the bur­glary, a neighborhood boy who 
According to Sgt. John McCul­was an acquaintance of the resi­lum of the South Bend Police, dents approached them and most burglars won't enter a asked ifone of the residents had 
HAIRCUT 
SPECIAL!! 
Guys and Gals $10 
Monday -Thursday with Beth and Leslee 

ND/SMC students only 
703 Lincolnway West, Mishawaka (across from Hacienda) 255-6500 
Classifieds 
continued from page 4 
NEED 2 PENN ST. OA's PLEASE CALL KEVIN 1417. 
DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'S FOR PUllDUE GAME. CALL M.B. 3029 
AJR FORCE! Only S I NOW OR NEVER I 2SI6 or 1153. 
NEED 3 GAS FOR PURDUE GAME. CALL CATHAT 234-4232. 
4 AJR FORCE GAS 234-4350, 283-2344. 
NEED 2 AJR FORCE GAS. CALL SUE 
ZfUUI"-IIIHil. 
I PERSONALS I 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER .t Ll· QUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLI­DAY INN. 
MEN INTERESTED IN EXPERIENC­ING LIFE IN A BENEDICTINE MONASTERY DURING FALL BREAK -Call Br. Mark 23~187 
21 AND OVER777 INTERESTED IN WORKING FALLFEST BEER GARDENS .... MANDATORY MEETING THURS. SEPT 18 HAGGAR CTRSMC7PMI 
North coast residents: Need to share ride to Cleveland-Akron this weekend. Call JR at 13114 

The Observer Thursday, September 18, 1986 -page 6 


r~~~~~~~~ 
~ DUN & BRADSTREET~ ~ Corporation i
! ~
will present an lrifonnal presentation 
§ Wed., Sept. 24 ~ 
• 2 7pm -9pm ~ 
I 
§ § 
Upper Lounge ofUniversity Club ~ 
-t §
• All students invited 
All majors and undergrads ~ Reception to follow Refreshments to be served 
Don McLeod ·The World's Foremost Modem Mime  
8:00pm Wahington Hall TONIGHT $2.00 with ND/SMC J.D.  

IRISH GARDENS "The SYR Headquarters" 
We have new low prices­come in and take advantage of our weekend specials! Don't forget to order flowers for your weekend dates and dances. 
2 I I F.. Day Rd. Mishawaka 259-7799 

Thursday &Friday 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2am Thursday 
9pm -3am Friday 
-------------------~------­
90(\ 

c;,o~ $1.00 off entrance fee 


259·1900 

HOLD THAT SUMMER TAN!! 
DO IT ALL +condition in booth +tan in beds 
+ relax on massage bed 


'MN-HAWA'L 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road 



~----M-is•h•a•w•a-ka 

call us at 277-7026 
~ 
llliiifil!lj 



~~~~~ 
.................
................
..............
.............
.. ..'~i!l 

New York downs Cubs to clinch NL East title 
Associated Press 

New York-The New Yotl, Mets, 
led by Dwight Gooden and rookie 
Dave Magadan, brought the Na­
tional League East title home last 
niqllt with a 4-2 victory over the 
Chicago Cubs. 

Coming off a disappointing 1-4 
road trip during which they had 
b, ·n expected to clinch their third 
division title and first since 1973, 
Gooden pitched a six-hitter for his 
third shutout of the season. 
Magadan, who replace the ailing 
Keith Hernandez in the lineup, had 
three hits and two RBI, both times 
driving in Lenny Dykstra. 

Gooden, 15-6, struck out eight 
and walked five. He lost his 
shutout bid when Rafael "almiero 
hit a tv.• nm homer in the eighth. 

On the road , the Mets went 25 ·consecutive scoreless innings until 
getting three runs in the third inn­ing of a 4-2 victory in St. Louis on Tuesday night as they reduced their magic number to one. That victory broke a four-game losing streak and was only their second in eight games. 
Against Cubs right-hander Den­nis Eckersley, 6-10, the Mets broke through in the third inning with four singles. With one out, Dykstra singled to right field, and Wally Backman followed with a single to center that sent Dykstra to second. 
Magadan drove in Dykstra as Backman went to third, and, after Gary Carter struck out, Darryl Strawberry hit a single to left, scor­ing Backman. 
The Mets got their third run in 
the fifth.  Dykstra led off with  a  
double  and  went  to  third  on  a  
sacrifice  bunt  by  Backman.  

NOW HIRING! 

NOW HIRING! 
Part-time evening Telephone sales 

phone 233-9045 

between 5:30 -9:00 


~============~ 
The Proof fs In 


the Taste! 
OpeaM...s.ttl ..




s-•.­
PfaG-Sorttlulkha-Sa~ocP 
&ercl Wine 
277-... 
f.ocwN4 .......... (IVa.~ to a•..,. 

WE DO NOT CURE BALDNESSI 
We help you grow thicker, healthier hair. 
-Th• ,...,"'"Mlnox/d/1­
A!ter years of research, Hair Loss Center has an entirely new concept in the treatment of hair loss that produces visible results. Call for aFREE con­sultation to see rt your thinning hair problem can be SQ!ved, before it's too late. 
HAIR LOSS CENTER
c 
703 LWW, Mishawakl Ph. 255-8608 
M-W~ 3 p.m.~ p.m. . Saturday Noon-4 p.m. 

,., t:.dtl.nl, c.n.,., 

Saturday, September 20 ... 8:15 P.M. Morris Civic Auditorium Call 232-6343 
YE"5... YatIU GfA1M€/l!T... 1'Ct.EM!fr11170N /IW/l AT7lff5 VCRY MC'M6NT, (J(.fVCK 15 GOIM? 1lJ 'fft£f'tJf?T 'I, IIPf'I/RfNTlY1HT!Lt. II ffWH/5 MfUCrlt£5 K/61ff 1lfl 7H€ 11115cM6NT C€/t.ING //Nil 8f/6TH IN 7H€ KI:IIRKAN&€ 7lf€14 H~!?~ liT 1Hf THYTHT£M ... 1lJP Of ~ 5TII!!?S ... Kevin Walsh  
~ IN STR.IJCTIONS TO A&CNr 001 '$'re-P 3: Af:TCR rJI3CVVcRJNG­"HE WILL INFORH 'rtX> OF '• You WILL KNOW HIM B'r' RE: SUII:.VC:ILl./>NC.E ANb APP!ilc· THE' PR~ OF ONe OR. TfiE' ARR€ST'INC:. PROCI':IXJRE. '' A PI1£AAAAt-16Cl> PASS~Rtl. '' HeNSION OF OFf<AMP<IS ~· MO(E' MINORS, 'r'OU SHOOLI> G01NC7 MINOW.S. ' WA<r UNriL I(}() ARE: a:JN.TI'CI'E} 61{ OIJR. l:l0u6t..E ;v:;£NT 'K~ ' ACROSS 30 "-Kapital" 1 Quahog 33-Gay potKaplan 5 Posh 34 Tabu 50 Stake 10 Author of 35 Singer "Topaz" Tennille 57-alia"EarlyBird"classes. 14 Timberwolf 36 Gambler's bet 15 Antilles 39 Movie dog 58 Foolish island 40 Sympathy 59 FootlessTake one and 16 Title 41 Use room 17 Tandem service 20 Still 42 Bandleader Brown 61 Scentfly high on test day. 21 Mona­22 Stuff for 43 Sagacious the mill 44 Showy flowers Want high scores on the MCAT, LSAT, 23 Can. prov. 45 Ford DOWN 24 Vex 46 Bus. abbr. 1 PallGMAT, DAT, or GRE? Then get into high 25 Flimsy 47 Give up rights togear with a Kaplan "Early Bird" class. 29 Wrath 3 Back We 'II prepare you for one ofthese career­Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: shinyshaping exams and still leave you plenty of -----------­..time to spare. And if you need a quick 7 Halo refresher before the exam, bone up with our IAIMIP Test-N-Tape· series at any of our 120 centers. 10 Up to 11 CheersRight up to the last minute. So enroll. Today. Because everyone knows what the early bird gets. site L:IAIN!KAPLAN I~ STANLEY H. KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL CENTER LTD. "CAT 4/87 PREP CLASS BEGINS OCT. 1st. FONDA-U FONDUE PARLOR LSAT 12/86 PREP CLASS BEGINS OCT. 2nd. 100 Cmter Milhlwaka 255-1526 DIVIDEND TO BEARER __1717 E. South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 466J7 Phone 219/272-41J5 Dinner for 2. ,.,. ?ad,.  

r-------------------------­






~4t:)t~~~--------------------------------------------------------T•h•u.rs.d.ay•.•s.ep.t.em
..be•r•l•8,•1•98•6•---p.ag•e•7 Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
----~------------------­

The door swung wide, and there, to the horror of the other pirates, stood Captain Monet ­unmistakable with his one eye and pegbody. 

Corsica grouping region 
29 Strength 43 Ocean motion 50 Droplet 30 Trifles 44 Medical 51 Hence 31 Broadway hit student 52 Ivan or 32 Portents 45 Brandish Peter 34 Racket 46 Printer's aid 53 --Ia-Ia 35 Siamese 47 Quirt 54 "Faerie 37 Widespread 48 Woody's boy Queene" 38 Sonnet 49 lt. wine 55 Self 
EXPIR&S 
12113186 
FO__.U..;;.R,;;..DO...;;,;;;;;LLA~R,;;,S________$ 4.00 
This check Is worth $.(.00 off the purchase of a Total Comblnatlot1' Not valid with any other promotional offer. Valid Tuesday through Friday Dinner only 
:::...~ Y~-~ ~~ 9~
.....~ 

L--------------------------------------------~ 

7:00, 9:15, 11:30 $1.50 Engineering Auditorium 
~--------------~-----­
---------------~-------------------------------­
Thursday, September 18, 1986 -page 8 
SRorts 

McCourt drives home three goals as Irish soccer team earns 4-1 win 
By PETE SKIKO tributing like I know he can. Not to Senior Pat Szanto, Notre Dame's Sports Writer put them (Northwestern) down, but sixth all-time leading scorer, hit an the score could've been worse." unmarked McCourt right in front The Notre Dame football team With 19 minutes left in the first of the net at the midway point of isn't the only fall squad exhibiting half, McCourt broke the ice by tak­the second ha 1 , and forward tap­an agressive new look. Yesterday, ing a feed from sophomore Randy ped in for a 3-1 lead. Junior Steve the men's soccer team, led by junior Morris and firing low to beat goalie Lowney found McCourt in a Bruce McCourt's three goals, ex­Jeff Carlisle. The first half end·( r · crowded penalty box with seven ploded past Northweste~, 1 1-1, at 0, with other scoring opportunities minutes left and McCourt got his Alumni Field. eluding the Irish. hat trick, drilling a shot past a div­
ing Carlisle. 

McCourt, who leads all Irish Scott friedman brought the The Irish avenged a 1-0 loss to scorers with 14 points in only five Wildcats even on a ht"ader, Nor­the Wildcats last year in Evanston, games, spearheaded a devastating . thwestern's only shl : 0n goal of the Ill., and raised their season's record offensive attack. Throughout the game, from Dirk Klemm at the 10-to 5-l. Grace is cautious, however. .,>/' 
game, play remained in outmanned minute mark of the second half. 
f >~; >"~v·~'

Northwestern's end, pleasing Head But the Irish answered just 30 "We're playing pretty well right '" /-$' ~i-~ Coach Dennie Grace. seconds later with freshman Rolfe now," he said, "but we've got a long : "' > '-~ 
The Observer/Joe Vitacco 
"We just put on a clinic today," Behrje tallying after Morris chased road ahead of us, starting with beamed Grace, in his third year down a pass from midfield, juked a Michigan State in East Lansing on Irish soccer keeper Hugh Breslin did not get to handle the ball much in with the Irish. ''Everyone played defender, and centered perfectly to Friday. I just hope we can keep his team's 4-1 triumph over Northwestern yesterday. The Wildcats lldcl well, and obviously Bruce is con-put the! ·i.;h up2-l. playing with intensity." only one shot on goal, and Pete Skiko has the details at left. 

Rehder adjusts to new guard role 
By TERRY LYNCH I still have a lot of work to do." "Well, I did watch Bavaro a lot," Sports Writer Dedication to hard work is he said. nothing new for Rehder, and the 
When Tom Rehder stepped onto adjectives that frequently are used "He was a hard-nosed tight end. the field last Saturday, he found to describe him include "consis­But my selling point as a tight end himself in a much different posi­tent"and "unselfish." His smooth had a lot more to do with the fact tion than the tight end spot he had transition and inspired play in spr­that I'm big and easy to throw the been used to in the last two seasons. ing practices earned him the Hering ball to, and also that I can block. 
Instead of lining up to catch Award, given to players who best "Coach Holtz talked to me a few passes, the 6-7, 250-pound senior exhibit unselfish team attitudes. times during the spring, and decid­from Santa Maria, Cal., was deep" ed I'd help the team more at left in the trenches at left offensive However, notoriety might be a tackle. There were three things I guard. And while the change little harder to find at left tackle as had to work on. One, I had to put wasn't exactly the most radical opposed to tight end, where Rehder on 30 pounds. Two, I had to bench switch on the Irish football team, recorded 13 receptions for 182 as close to 400 pounds as I could the fact that Rehder was lining up yards and a touchdown in the '85 (Rehder says he's up to 370 now). against one of the top defenses in season. He also played more And the third thing was that I had the country didn't make anything minutes than any other Irish to keep my feet moving. easier. receiver, starting in nine of the II 
games. "He said that if I could achieve a 
"I think I did all right," said So when Rehder opened spring good combination of weight and Rehder. "It was a confidence­practice last year with Lou Holtz, speed, I'd be a fine left tackle," builder for me. I d_idn't have to putting big numbers on the board Rehder continued. "At tight end I worry about starting, but it was a for the Irish at tight end in his was known for size, not quickness. 
Notre Dame senior Tom Rehder lined up in the unfamiliar offensive­lot more physical at the new posi­senior campaign and perhaps If there's a chance for me to move guard position last Saturday against Michigan, after playing most of his tion. following in the footsteps of Mark on, it'll be at this position. It's college football at tight end. Terry Lynch features the versatile athlete in "I was happy with the way I Bavaro had to lurk somewhere in working out, but I've got a lot of his story at right. played, but at the same time I know the back of his mind. work ahead." 

ND must face Lorenzo and possible letdown 
The Big I.'s are coming, and the Notre Dame football 
The Irish have practiced on the astroturf field behind team is more than a bit concerned. the ACC all week in an effort to prepare for the condi­"There's really no way to stop him," said Irish head tions they will face Saturday on the artificial turf of Spar­
Marty

coach Lou Holtz of L, number one. tan Stadium. "I'm anxious to see how we'll respond to it," said Holtz Burns Of particular concern to Holtz is that his defenders of L, number two. learn to read the cuts of ballcarriers and recei• ·· s. Holtz
Football Notebook 

Who are the 'L's, and why have they been the elusive feels this is especially crucial in containing Whit.!, who problems of the week's practice sessions? uses the harder surface to make sharper cuts. 
Super-smooth tailback Lorenzo White is, of course, "An average back will make a sharper cut on the first problem the Irish must face Sturday in Spartan team or on any team that can reproduce his style of runn­astroturf," said Holtz. "People make cuts on it that you Stadium when they take on Michigan State. Less tangi­ing. Practices, therefore, are of little real benefit. just don't see on grass fields. You can have Lorenzo in ble, but equally dangerous, is the danger that Notre I 's difficult finding a guy on (the prep team~ to give your grasp and then (lose him). You must pursue well Dame will suffer a drastic emotional letdown -another I you the type of look White gives you," noted Holtz. and then tackle hime when you get there." that can wreck a team's game plan. Perhaps the only thing tougher than White to practice 
"Lorenzo White is one of the greatest backs in the en­against has been the natural letdown in intensity that ac­tire country, a great Heisman Trophy candidate," said cours after a team plays a highly emotional game. That Holtz of the 5-11, 204-pounder who led the NCAA in the Irish were fired up for their contest with Michigan rushing in 1985. "He has great movement laterally, ac­was evident to everyone in attendance, and after a tough EXTRA POINTS celerates well, and he's very durable. He carries it 40-45 loss it would be natural to drop a few notches on the in­times a game and it does not faze him. He's simply the tensity meter. Kovaleski's great performance against Michigan, in same in the fourth quarter as he is in the first." "After a tough loss it's more difficult to get up for which he make 17 tackles despite suffering a swollen 
White will certainly be the key to the Spartans' offen­another tough game," said Holtz. "We know we have to ankle in the first quarter, earned him 'AP Midwest Defen­sive attack. The junior runner from Florida ·::tcked up play that schedule and get up for every game. And on the sive Player of the Week. Kovaleski is listed as probable I,908 yards last year, fumbling only four ' mes in 419 first time, you don't know how a team is going to react on for Saturday's game ... Less fortunate is senior free safety carries. Michigan State head coach George Perles liked the road. Mike Haywood, whose calf muscle strain will probably White's running so much last year, he sent his prize pupil "But I think this team is going to react very positively force him to miss the game with the Spartans. The Fran­out on a successful pass route only a dozen times or so. and play very well." cisco brother, tailbacks Hiawatha and D'Juan, should be 
;. 's going to take a total defensive effort to contain "After the Michigan game," noted Kovaleski, "some of able to suit up on Saturday as well. . .ABC-Television him," said Irish linebacker Mike Kovaleski, who led last the fans and students told us that we had played a great was so pleased with the ratings of last weekend's NO­Saturday's fine defensive performance which held game. But it doesn't satisfy us. We want to win. The Michigan game that it decided to exercise its option to 
Michigan tailback Jamie Morris in check. "He's just a Arizona State defense really did a good job against televise the Sept. 27 NO-Purdue game at Notre Dame tremendous athlete." Michigan State and Lorenzo White (the Sun Devils held Stadium. Starting time for the game, which will be Perhaps the most difficult aspect of preparing for White to 61 yards in last Saturday's 20-17 victory), and shown throughout most of the country, is tentatively White, though, is that there is nobody on the Notre Dame for us to do the same it will take that same team effort." scheduled at 2:30P.M. 








