Crime Stoppers -page 4 

VOL. XXI, NO. 66 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Approval given for extending parietals on Sunday nights 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Assisstant News Editor 
Parietals hours may be ex­tended until12:30 a.m. on Sun­days only, beginning next se­mester, although hall rectors retain the "discretion to with­hold this extension," according to a letter from Assistant Vice President for Student Mfairs Father David Tyson. 
The letter, addressed to Stu­dent Body President Mike Switek, announced Tyson's decision to extend Sunday parietal hours, and explained Tyson's decision to reword a proposed policy statement con­cerning overnight parietals vi­olations. 
Proposals to extend Sunday parietal hours and clarify the penalty for overnight parietals violations were given to Tyson for approval after they were passed by the Campus Life Council on November 20. 
Tyson's decision accepted the first three parts of the pro­posed policy statement that say an overnight parietals viola­tion will still be considered "a serious violation of the Univer­sity Rules and Regulations, al­though "not as grievous an of­fense" as the sale of drugs or the engagement of premarital intercourse. These first parts also classify overnight parie­tals violations and violations of the Sexuality Code as separate offenses. 
Tyson objected, however, to the final part of the statement that says, "The penalty for an overnight parietals violation, by itself does not normally con­stitute suspension or dismis­sal." 
In the letter, Tyson said this part of the statement "could easily be miscontrued by some to mean that an overnight parietal violation would not constitute grounds for suspen­sion or dismissal." 
Tyson's letter said no deci­sion on the punishment for an overnight parietal violation is made without "consideration of the circumstances in-
see PARIETALS, page 5 
Americana renovations to alter graduation plans 
By BUD LUEPKE Copy Editor 
Families of 1987 graduates planning to stay in the Americana Inn during com­mencement weekend will have to search elsewhere for overnight accomodations because of a six-month renovation project sched­uled for that building by new ownership. 
The Americana Inn, 213 
W. Washington St., has been sold to Inns America Corp., of Braintree, Mass., and will become a Holiday Inn after renovations are completed, according to a press release issued by Americana gen­eral manager John Wilson. 
Wilson said that the hotel will close until the end of July due to renovations. Reserva­tions set for days of the renovation period will be cancelled, Wilson added. 
The renovation period will include the May 17 com­mencement excercises. 
Wilson did not say the Americana would try to find alternate accomodations for those whose commencement reservations will be can­celled. 
CIA chief denies knowledge about arms sale profits sent to Nicaragua 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -CIA Direc­tor William Casey, in five hours of secret, sworn congressional testimony, denied Wednesday that he knew the profits from 
U.S. arms sales to Iran were being transferred to Nicaraguan Contra rebels, lawmakers reported. 
But Rep. Dante Fascell, D­Fla., chairman of the House Foreign Mfairs Committee, said Casey did offer specifics "with regard to a lot of infor­mation which we did not have on the record before" concern­ing the unraveling scandal that has engulfed the Reagan ad­ministration. 
Fascell added, "When all of the dots are eventually linked on this, it will be, I won't use the word incredible, but it cer­tainly will be extraordinary." He added that he hopes the whole story will be uncovered soon. 
Rep. William S. Broomfield of Michigan, the senior Repub­lican on the committee, said, "The good news is that Mr. Casey was pretty candid with us and none of what he had to say in any way indicates that the president knew or should have known of any wro. 1oing. 
"The bad news is that what Mr. Casey told us indicates serious errors of judgment by senior CIA personnel," Broom­field said, adding, "That needs to be corrected." 
Casey testified as Republicans and Democrats sparred over whether congres­sional committees investigat­ing the Iran-Contra connection should grant immunity from prosecution to key witnesses who have refused to discuss what they know. 
One of those witnesses, Vice Adm. John Poindexter, Presi­
see ARMS, page 3 
Student aid qualifications could be tightened by new law 
By MIRIAM HILL Senior Staff Reporter 
A change in federal laws could make it tougher to qualify for student aid, accor­ding to Notre Dame Financial Aid Counselors Tina Cunnin­gham and Kathy Keener-Han. 
Cunningham said students applying for Guaranteed Stu­dent Loans will be most af­fected by the new law, called the Higher Education Amend­ment of 1986. 
For some students, the 1987­88 Guaranteed Student Loan could be less than the amount received in previous years, she said. 
The new law requires all stu­dents hoping to receive finan­cial aid to file a Financial Aid Form with the College Scholar­ship Service. This represents a change for Guaranteed Student Loan applicants, who previ­ously had to complete a form called the Simple Needs Test. 
"Many students at Notre Dame have only the Guaranteed Student Loan, and for those students, the big change is going to be that they can't do it the way they used to before," Keener-Han said. 
In general, the new method of determining need is more rigorous than that used by the Simple Needs Test. As a result, some students' Guaranteed Student Loan eligibility may be more restricted. 
The new law also raises the amount of money a student can receive through the 
see AID, page 4 
FINANCIAL AID GUIDELINES 
•No 
Financial Aid Form, no money. It's that simple. 

•Financial 
need is based on financial status and family circumstances. Both change on an annual basis. 

•Don't 
assume your eligibility or ineligibilty. 

•The 
Financial Aid Form should be filed as soon as possible after Jan. 1, 1987. It must reach the College Scholarship by Feb. 28, 1987. 

• 
A completed 1986 tax return is not necessarily needed in order to file. 

•u 
the Financial Aid Form is filed after Feb. 28, 1987, it will be considered a late application. 

•send 
signed copies of both your and your parents' 1986 federal tax returns to the Financial Aid Office. 



I 
,--~ I 
The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 2 
__________________J_o_u_r_n_ru_is-ts-t-.n-1-im__b_o--~ 
In Brief 
A sniper dressed in a black martial arts costume and carrying a Samurai sword was subdued by a blast from a water hose Wednesday, 11 hours after he began firing a rifle at random from a building at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Ky. Two men were wounded during the standoff with the gunman, Ulysses S. Davis III, who had been fired by the university last summer for fighting. Davis wanted to air some grievances about the university. -Associated Press 
Bill Breeden says he's more likely to serve jail time for taking a "John Poindexter" street sign than Poindexter is for any role the former national security adviser may have played in U.S. weapons sales to Iran and secret aid to the Contra rebels in Nicaragua. Like Poindexter, Breeden is a native of Odon, Ind. Police want to question Breeden about the theft of Odon's "John Poindexter" street sign, which was erected one day after Poindexter's Nov. 25 resignation as national security advisor. The sign was stolen the day after it went ~P· -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., will be the guest on tonight's WVFI-AM 640's weekly talkshow, "Campus Perspectives." From 10 to 11, Host Lynne Strand will interview Hesburgh on Notre Dame's past and future, and key Notre Dame and Catholic issues. The Hesburgh interview will be the last segment of "Campus Perspectives" this semester. -The Observer 
A mock videotape interview program will allow seniors to be interviewed by professional recruiters from Jan. 16 to 23. Seniors must sign up in Career And Placement Ser­vices before Dec. 19. -The Observer 
Volunteers for next summer's Special Olympics may register today at noon in the ISO Lounge on LaFortune's second floor. -The Observer 
Summer Service Project applications for students who are studying abroad spring semester are available at the Center For Social Concerns. Applications and interviews must be completed before Christmas break.-The Observer 
Indianapolis Shakespeare Festival auditions will be held Saturday, Feb. 7, 1987. The project will tour five Indiana communities in August, 1987. Applicants should send a coverletter, resume, and photo to the Indianapolis Shake­speare Festival P.O. Box 30316, Indianapolis, Ind. 46230. For more information, call 782-0088. -The Observer 
Applications for R.A. selection may be picked up in the Student Affairs office by interested students who will study abroad next semester. No applications will be given to any interested students after January 16, 1987. Completed applications, three recommendations and, where re­quired, letters of approval, must be on file in the Office of Student Affairs. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 
I Weather 
Thoughts of finals roll in with the clouds this afternoon. Sunny this mor­ning but becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon. High in the upper 20s to about 
30. Partly cloudy tonight and Friday, with lows in upper teens and lower 20s and highs in the upper 20s and lower 30s. 


Deolgn Editor .........•. Rob "Lux" Luxem Design Asolstont ..••.......••....•.. Bob White Typeoetter .......................... Smed Laboe ................................................Ed Laboe New• Editor .................. Ann Kaltenbach Copy Editor:.•••: ............... Rachel Jarosh Spnrll Copy Editor............... Pete Gegen VIewpoint Copy Editor . Maura Mandyck 
Tbe Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P .0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
VIewpoint Layout............... Alice Groner Accent Copy Editor......... Tracie Fetters Accent Layout............. Katy Kronenberg Typist ................................. Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .................... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor .... . Theresa Harrington Ad Design ........................... Fred Nelson Photographer ........................ Zolton Ury 


over whose rights to protect 
The ethics of journalism. 
Does a newspaper have the duty, ability and basic right to print everything that is news in its pages? I ask myself this question in regards to printing the names of victims, the names of those arrested for crimes, those people, stu­dents rather, who are living among us on our campus. 
Some people say it is our duty, as a newspaper to print and report all news regardless of its harshness, or its probable effects on the lives of students, and others in our small community. In addition to this, some ask, "where does a newspaper get the power not to print the names, facts or content of stories?" They may say the newspaper has a duty, a responsibility to the public. 
This duty can be abused, however, and the results are ugly. Journalism sometimes attracts a certain breed of people, and they exist all over the United States, who are news-mongers: people who only want the facts, now. If it's news, it's news, no questions asked. These people do not consider the news value in relation to other factors: like people's feelings or the effects the article might have on an entire com­munity. 
I feel a human factor must be considered. One must ask, by printing this story, or name, is the story any more credible? Do the positive effects of printing this story, on the public, out­weigh the negative effects? A newspaper is not here to exploit, or sensationalize the news; in­stead it is here to report, as objectively as pos­sible, the news as it exists. 
Writing should be considered a privilege. It should be handled responsibly. It is sad to see someone use the power of the pen in a destruc­tive manner--possibly only to advance one's personal goals or promote a personal vendetta. 
I then consider something that would allevi­ate these problems, something that other pro­fessions have used for years. I wonder why ac­countants are required to take the certified public accountant's exam in order to become CPA's; or why lawyers, in order to become practicing attorney's, have to take the bar ex­am. With this in mind, journalists should be required to take an exam too. Ethics should be the main thrust of the test, as well as other basic rules of journalism reviewed. 
Not that a newspaper can play God and keep important information from the public, but there is a line when it comes to what informa­tion, and how much of it, a newspaper should print. For instance, in the three drunk driving articles The Observer has run, the names of 
FRESHMEN I 
NOW THAT YOU'VE SETTLED IN AND KNOW YOUR WAY AROUND CAMPUS, WHY NOT TAKE STEPS TOWARD LEARNING YOUR WAY AROUND THE WORLD! ALONG WITH THE CHALLENGE OF SERVING AS A 
NAVAL AVIATOR, SUBMARINER, OR SURFACE LINE OFFICER, YOU MAY SPEND YOUR SUMMERS BROADENING YOUR HORIZONS! 
~ ~ ~ 
~:w~ 
NAVY OFFICERS 

GET RE5PONSIBILITY FAS1: 
A THREE YEAR SCHOLARSHIP ($27,000) MAY BE EARNED BY JOINING THE NROTC UNIT IN YOUR FRESHMEN YEAR! FOR DETAILS CALL LT WACHTL AT 239-6063! 

Margie Kersten 
Saint Mary's Editor 

the students driving the car were not printed. 
This was truly an editorial opinion and a diffi­
cult decision just the same. No doubt, the name 
is spouted on T.V., on the radio and in other 
area newspapers. So, what makes The Obser­
ver, any different? The Observer is run by stu­
dents, for students. Is the news content worth 
as much, or more than the possible anguish it 
might cause those people involved? If so, the 
decision is made. 
However, if the negative effects of the story, 
or a particular content of the story might out­
weigh the news content, it must be recon­
sidered. What if, by printing a person's name 
who was charged with drunk driving and had 
hit another Saint Mary's or Notre Dame stu­
dent, he or she was "sent over the edge?" One 
must remember the small community we all 
live in. The Observer is the only news source 
of several students. 
On the other hand, "It's a hard, cold world out there," "That's life some people say." You don't have the power, as a newspaper, not to print the names. It's the public's right to know. I say to myself, yes this makes sense, but does it make any difference that The Observer is a student newspaper, serving Catholic institu­tions? I am left with a dilemma: whether or not to protect the innocent, the guilty, or the public? 
The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 3 
Elie Wiesel gets No bel Peace Prize 
Associated Press 
OSLO, Norway -Holocaust survivor Elie Wiesel, an Amer­ican writer and human rights advocate, received the 1986 Nobel Peace Prize Wednesday and said the honor belonged to all survivors of the Nazi death camps and their children. 
Norwegian Nobel Committee Chairman Egil Aarvik gave Wiesel the gold medal and di­ploma at ceremonies in Oslo University's Aula Festival Hall attended by 800 people, includ­ing King Olaf V and govern­ment leaders. The prize also in­cludes $290,000. 
The award was "in recogni­tion of this particular human spirit's victory over the powers of death and degradation, and as a support to the rebellion against evil in the world ... " Aarvik said. 
The Nobel prizes for physics, chemistry, medicine, econom­ics and literature were pre­sented Wednesday in Stock­holm, Sweden. 
In a departure from tradi­tion, Wiesel's teen-age son, Shlomo Elisha, was invited to join his father on the podium for the awarding of the prize. 
Obviously moved, the 58­year-old Wiesel asked the king's permission to say a brief blessing. "Thank you, oh Lord, for giving us this day," he said. 
In an emotional acceptance speech, Wiesel said: "Do I have the right to represent the 
The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Day Editors 
Those interested may come to or call The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune or call Lynne Strand at 283-3861 or Kim Yuratovac at 272-9361. 

After JODI" last exam, what tough questions will you still be facing? 
W don't have your answers. But we'll listen to your questions, 
share some of our own about who we want to become and where we want to journey. For emyone who has considered the path of priesthood, the Holy Cross Fathers' One-Year Candidate Program provides !In opportunity to ask and explore the possibilities in community . 
Conlacl: 
Father Couhlg & Father Doyle Vocation Director Box 54/
• 
Notre DIJJ1Ie. IN 46556 (219)239-6385 

multitudes who have perished? Do I have the right to accept this great honor on their be­half? I do not. No one may speak for the dead, no one may interpret their mutilated dreams and visions ... 
"This honor belongs to all the survivors and their children, and through us, to the Jewish people with whose destiny I have always identified ... " 
Wiesel said it "would be un­natural for me not to make Jewish priorities my own: Is­rael, Soviet Jewery, Jews in Arab lands .. ~ but there are others as important to me." 
He said Palestinians were a people "to whose plight I am sensitive but whose methods I deplore when they lead to vio­lence." 
"Both the Jewish people and the Palestinian people have lost too many sons and shed too much blood. This must stop, and all attempts to stop it must be encouraged," he said. 
Aarvik noted it has been 50 years since the peace prize was awarded to Carl von Ossietzky, the German pacifist who, prior to World War II, warned of the Nazi threat to democracy. 

The ObaervellMike Ury
Fit to dance in 
Scott Selig sports his boxer shorts in the North Dining Hall on Wednesday. The Dancing Irish are selling Notre Dame boxer shorts in the North and South Dining Halls this week. 
NOTRE DAME 
A 

CONTEMPORARY 
PORTRAIT 

a 

1 ' t I fltr•......t~ '-If
1 " II ~ ' IJ ') l"'ttr• lf' 
.· ~ t 
. . .. r~ 

!I 
' . , 
ROBERT P SCHMUHL 
$16.95, cloth 
Arms 
continued/rom page 1 

dent Reagan's former national 
security adviser, met for only 
about 10 minutes behind closed 
doors with the House Intelli­
gence Committee. Previously, 
Poindexter has cited his Fifth 
Amendment right against self­
incrimination in refusing totes­
tify before the House Foreign 
Affairs Committee and the Sen­
ate Intelligence Committee. 
Rep. RobertRoe,D-N.J., said 
Poindexter again invoked the 
Fifth Amendment in his brief 
appearance before the House 
Intelligence Committee. 

That panel also heard secret testimony from Robert M. Gates, the deputy CIA Direc­tor, whom Roe described as "very open." 
Hobert McFarlane, Poindex­ter's predecessor as Reagan's national security adviser, also testified. 
Roe agreed with other legis­lators on various committees that as the amount of testimony being collected grows, new questions arise. 
"I think a lot of the issues . . . are beginning to be cleared up," he said. "But other issues are being exacerbated and beginning to unfold." 
On the other side of Capitol Hill, the Senate Intelligence Committee met briefly as yet another witness declined to tes­tify. 
Sen. David Durenberger, R­Minn., the committee chair­man, said ·Robert Dutton, an associate of retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord, in­voked his Fifth Amendment rights. Secord, now a private businessman, has been identi­fied as a key contact in the arms deal and with the Nicaraguan rebels. 
Durenberger said his panel still cannot determine what happened to all the profits from the Iranian arms sales. Asked if he was sure any of the money actually went to the Contras, he said, "I couldn't prove it." 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 



The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 4 
Weekly Crime Stoppers segment to feature robbery of ND students 
By MIRIAM HILL Senior Staff Reporter 

This is Lt. Sam Walsh for Crime Stoppers. The robbery of Notre Dame students in South Bend is the Crime of the Week. 
Those words will be broad­cast on area radio and televi­sion stations next week, as Crime Stoppers turns its atten­tion to crimes committed against Notre Dame students. 
The segment will depict the robbery of two Notre Dame stu­dents that occurred at 11: 30 
p.m. 
Oct. 17 in the parking lot of The Commons, a bar at 800 

N. 
Eddy St. 



The students were getting out of their car when three men ap­proached them, said Walsh. One man displayed a knife while another man pulled a sawed-off shotgun and demanded the victim's wallet and money. 
The suspects grabbed one of the students, took his wallet, and left the area. The suspects escaped with $150 and some credit cards, Walsh said. 
Walsh said two of the suspects are black males be­tween 25 and 30 years old, standing 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighing 160 pounds. The third suspect was described as a 30­year-old black male of medium build wearing dark clothing. 
Maura Barille, a 21-year-old senior from Saint Mary's, and Pat Tickle, a 21-year-old senior from Notre Dame, starred as the victims of the crime in the reenactment. 
Cpl. Eddie Vann of the South Bend Police Department and Randy Washington and Tony Williams, students at LaSalle High School portrayed the criminals. 
Notre Dame senior Rafael Benavente, 25, produced the segment, which will be shown for the first time Monday during the 5:30 p.m. news on WSBT, Channel 22. 
Barille and Benavente are in­terns with WSBT, the television station that produced this week's segment of Crime Stop­pers. 
"If there's been a crime against a Notre Dame student, or against anyone, that's of concern to us," said Walsh, who is in charge of Crime Stop­pers in the South Bend area. 
"Notre Dame students are easy prey, because the thugs know they're not armed and that they're carrying money," he said. 
As the holiday season ap­proaches, robberies tend to in­crease because people need more money, Walsh said. He said he hopes next week's seg­ment of Crime Stoppers "will act as a deterrent to the guys who are doing the robberies up here." 
To prevent robberies, Walsh advised students to walk in groups in well-lit areas. In ad­dition, he said students should 

Clarke Memorial
mUtr\TII:JIIt MIDI A 

Dedication 
VHS or Be to vi deotopes of Moss Celebroted by Fother Hesburgh 
Ploce your Christmos orders now -$35 per tope 
.• ~~..,.
of 20" Discount .not including sale items 
N.D..-S.M.C., Students 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Moran Malls -Elkhart 
keep wallets out of sight and be suspicious of activity around them. 
"The most important thing to remember is that if a robbery does take place, don't resist. Give them what they want," he said. 
Crime Stoppers is an interna­tional not-for-profit organiza­tion that solicits information on unsolved crimes. The South Bend Area Crime Stoppers pro­gram began in May of 1983 and has since received information that helped solve 850 felony cases and led to the arrest of 800 felons, Walsh said. 
Information on the crimes also appears in five area newspapers and on 12 radio sta­tions. Walsh said Channels 16, 22 and 28 film the segments for free as a public service. 
If you call Crime Stoppers this week with information leading to an arrest or indict­ment you could receive a $1,000 reward. South Bend callers call 288-STOP. You will be assigned a code number and we won't ask your name. 


loan limits have been raised from $2,500 to $2,625 for fresh­
Aid 

man and sophomores and to continuedfrom page 1 $4,000 for juniors and seniors. 
For graduate students, the Guaranteed Student Loan pro­limit has been raised from gram every year. The annual $5,000 to $7,500. 
Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 5 
The Observer 
Logan Center to get toys 
By JOHN SCHMIT 
News Staff 
The last of the toys col­lected by the Marine­sponsored Toys for Tots pro­gram will be delivered today to the children at Logan Cen­ter and the Memorial Hospi­tal in hopes of bringing the less fortunate some added Christmas cheer, according to Marine Corps representa­tives Brian Dean and Pat Kelleher. 
Through fundraisers at Theodore's and Senior Bar, the club has raised almost $2,000 used to buy toys at Children's Palace, said Kel­tener. New toys were also collected on campus and at the Credit Union, he said. 

The Semper Fidelus Marine Club has been spon­soring the program this year with Dean heading the drive. "The Marine Corps Reserves have annually sponsored the nationwide charity drive to collect toys for underprivileged children," Kelleher said. 

Ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South lend 272·7141& 
Air strike on Nicaragua confirmed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Reagan ad­ministration officials con­firmed Wednesday that Hon­duran jets struck targets inside Nicaraguan territory last weekend. 
But they denied charges by Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega that Honduras carried out the raids at the request of the United States. 
The Los Angeles Times quoted sources in Honduras on Wednesday as saying U.S. offi­cials were not told the Hon­durans planned to attack posi­tions inside Nicaragua and that the Americans were distressed town is located about 16 miles to learn of the bombing runs. from the border. Nicaragua 
But U.S. officials, who asked said an army post at Murra, 11 not to be identified, said the ad­miles northwest of Wiwili, also ministration had not taken a was attacked. position on the propriety of the The raids apparently were in Honduran action. response to recent border 
The Honduran government crossings by Nicaraguan oenied again Wednesday that troops into Honduran territory. it had undertaken any raids in­An administration official side Nicaragua but Sandinista said U.S. intelligence agencies military officials showed had confirmed the cross­reporters craters and shrapnel border attacks, but added he in the town of Wiwili that they did not know what damage had attributed to Honduran bom­been inflicted. bing runs. Meanwhile, another U.S. of­
The Sandinistas said that the ficial described a report that air strikes left seven soldiers the Honduran government has killed and 12 wounded. The reacl!ed an understanding with 
SOUTH SHORE LINE 
Take it To Chicago For 
$8.15 
(RTA to O'Hare for $1) 
Call 233-3111 
_..._ For SchQ.dule Jnformatioo 



WHATAWEEK!
Domino's Pizza goes crazy 
II 
with a different special LATE HOURS: Call Us! 232-2997 
816 Portage Avenue

• coupon lor every day ol the 
week! During the week call Sun.-Thurs. 277-2151 
1835 South Bend Ave. 233-3133
Domino's Pizza and take 
1428 Calvert Street
Plaza 23 Center

advantage ol the coupons 4:30 pm-2 am 
• below. 522-1164
277-8700

• • ~ Whataweek for you! Fri. & Sat. Elkhart
51400 U.S. 31 North 

4:30pm-3om 289-7100 534-2675
Offer Exp~res 12/21/86 
Goshen
4333 W. Western
../ 
NO COUPON NECESSARY 
MONDAY 
999 

16" 2 item pizza for only $999 (value 1.41)
MADNESS TWO BIT 
2se 

with any order cokes only 25¢ each (limit 6)
TUESDAY WACKY 
Two 

get two 12" 1-topping pizzas for only $11.00 (value 2.09)
WEDNESDAY 
Pizzas 

THINK THICK 
Thick 

12" thick crust pepperoni or sausage with double cheese only $6.110•
THURSDAY 
Crust 
2
FRIDAY 

any 16" 2 topping pizza and 4 cokes only
Topping 

only $11.oo. (value 2.55) 
FEAST 
Pizza 
SUPER 
FREE 

2 FREE cokes with any 12" pizza 4 FREE cokes with any 16" pizza
SATURDAY 
COKE 
SUNDAY 


12" pepperoni pizza with double cheese and 2 cokes only $7.99
STUDY BREAK 
Nicaraguan rebels that they 
I! 
would withdraw from Hon­
duran territory by next spring 
as "exaggerated." 
The reports said the rebels 

~ 
had pledged to Honduras they would carry out their fight against the Sandinistas from Nicaraguan territory. Rebel use of Honduran territory has been a sore point with that gov­ernment for years. 
Asked about the report, State Department deputy spokes­
woman Phyllis Oakley said, "It 
is the view of the United States 
that the Nicaraguan resistance belongs in Nicaragua. The gov­ernment of Honduras has ex-
Parietals 
continuedfrom page 1 
volved." 
"Thus, I am directing the 

Residence Life staff to reword 
the statement in such a way 
that an overnight parietal 
violation will not automatically 
result in suspension or dismis­
sal but that the penalty as­
sessed will be dependent on the 
circumstances of the case 
which could include suspension 
or dismissal," the letter said. 
Student senator and chair­

man of the Student Senate Committee on Parietals Brian Holst said he is pleased with the decision to extend Sunday parietals. "It's a good sign. It shows that the administration is receptive to student input when it is well formulated," he said. 
Grace Hall Rector Father Gerald Lardner said the deci­sion to extend Sunday parietals is not of major importance. "It's not that big a deal. I think it's a common sense type thing. 
Lardner said he will prob­ably extend parietals until 
12:30 a.m. in Grace Hall, al­though he said he will talk it over with the Resident Assis­tants and Hall Staff first. 
"I would rather have had parietals stay the same," said Father George Rozum, Alumni Hall rector. He also said he will consult with his hall staff before deciding whether or not to extend Sunday parietals in Alumni Hall. 
At the time the proposal was passed by the CLC, Holst said the reason for extending Sun­day parietals an extra half­hour is to accommodate "co-ed receptions" after hall masses. "It allows students to relax and socialize after mass in one an­other's rooms," he said. 
Holst, however, said he is dis­appointed with Tyson's deci­sion to reject the final part of the proposed policy statement. 
"We were looking for a con­crete lessening of the penalty and the penalty was only redefined," he said. 

The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 6 

Bass guitarist Bill Merkel and Brian Doherty, drummer, jam together at the Dimensions in 
Debate heard over teaching creationism in schools 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Teaching creationism alongside evolu­tion in public schools was at­tacked as an attempt to "give God equal time" and defended as true academic freedom in a lively Supreme Court debate Wednesday. 
The court is to decide by July whether lower courts were right in striking down a Louisiana law that required the teaching of evolution to be "balanced" by teaching creation-science. 
The lower courts said the law violates the constitutionally re­quired separation of church and state by disguising religion as science. 
But Atlanta lawyer Wendell Bird defended the law, telling the justices, "Creation-science is scientific material, non­religious material.'' 
He said the law mainly promotes "basic concepts of fairness and academic freedom ... and gives students all the scientific evidence." 
Bird's portrayal of the law and its purpose was attacked by Jay Topkis, a New York City lawyer. 
"Oh sure, academic freedom -we've got to give God equal time.' That's their idea of aca­demic freedom," Topkis argued. 
The Louisiana Legislature enacted the Balanced Treat­ment for Creation-Science and Evolution-Science Act in 1981 but it was struck down before ever being enforced. 
Creation-Science parallels a literal translation of the bibli­cal version in Genesis, stating that Earth and most life forms came into existence suddenly 
·< 198GAT&T
about 6,000 years ago. 
-~ 
I

WHEN IS THE RIGHT TIME TO 
I

CALL HOME BEFORE THE HOUDAYS? I 
I 

a) 
When another hour of cramming for the stats exam isn't going to h~lp anyway. 

b) 
When that Xmas Club money is almost gone, and you haven't even started buying presents. 

c) 
When you iust keep thinking about unwind­ing after finals with the whole family together again. 


Okay, ma~·be exam time 'tisn't the season to be joll~·. But a tall home might be just the thing to bring a little earl~· holida~· chl'l'l'. 
And there's no more reliable \\·a~· to eall than using AT&T. 
Y<m can count on AT&T's high qualit~· sen·iee all 
~·ear round. 
But th<'n.'~ J1() timP like thost> \\·(·vb hdi11\' \':t('at ion t() t<llk tu ::1 nr par­(•nts. It\ ;t tinw to makl' phms. A tinw to talk about }-.rifts ~-ou 're thinking of buy­ing. A tinw to rl'mi­
nisee about other years \\'hen the family came together. And atime to \\'arn them that bombing 
out in statistics is, wdl, a 
}ll'ohabilit~·. 

-
,, 
....4 


\ 

ATs.T
'\, 

"-The right choice 
--------------·----­
I 
\--: 

Study shows hormone could increase life span 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -High levels of a mysterious hormone have been linked for the first time with longevity, and finding ways to increase this natural chemical might someday be a key to hel­ping people live longer, re­searchers say. 
The hormone, produced by the adrenal gland, is called dehydroepiandrosterone sul­fate, or DHEAS. No one knows precisely what it does, al­though it's the most abundant steroid hormone in humans. 
Researchers at the Univer­sity of California at San Diego found that older men who had high levels of the hormone were far less likely to die, especially of heart disease, than were people with low levels of the substance. 
"There is no way to either raise or lower DHEAS levels with medicine or behavior, al­though it is conceivable that we could develop a therapy to alter levels of the hormone," said Dr. Elizabeth Barrett-Connor, who directed the study. 
In their report in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine, the researchers cau­tioned that DHEAS could merely be a marker for some other attribute that truly helps people survive longer. But they added, "It is also plausible that DHEAS confers protection against death in general and against death from cardiovas­cular disease in particular.'' 
In the early 1970s, the re­searchers drew blood samples from 242 San Diego men who ranged in age from 50 to 79. After 12 years, the doctors com­pared the levels of DHEAS in the men's blood with their sur­vival. The initial DHEAS levels among the 76 who had died were lower than those of the men who were still alive. 
Although no one knows how DHEAS works, the researchers speculated that it might prevent obesity and hardening of the arteries. 

....___________________··-···---­
-----------------------------------·~ ~ 

"ie~E_O_i_n__t_____________
Thu-rsda-y,De-cemb-eru-,I9s_6-pa-ge7 
Separation of duties is a possible solution 
Picture this scene in your mind: The year is 1953. The place is Westminster Abbey, London. A young woman of 26 years is dressed in the robes of State. The Archbishop of Canterbury has placed the crown on her head, and she has become Elizabeth II, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Hundreds of thousands of Britons line the streets to view the royal procession to and from the coronation. In so doing they dem­onstrate their loyalty to the institution of the monarchy and to the nation as a whole. 
David Koyzis 
guest column 

Now picture this scene: The year is 1993. The place is Washington, D.C. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court has placed the crown on the head of John Doe, first King of the United States of America. Millions of Americans view this event either in person or via tele­vision. In so doing they demonstrate their loyalty to the office of the monarch and what it stands for. 
The first scene we all either remem­ber or have read about. But what about the second? Absurd, no? On one level it is absurd. We do not now have a king, we have never had one, and we will almost certainly not have on in the fu­ture. Nor am I suggesting (except per­haps tongue-in-cheek that we ought to revive the ancient institution of the he­reditary monarchy. But I would sug­gest that the role played by the monarch in such countries as Britain, 
and the Scandinavian and Low 
Countries is an essential one and one 
that we ought to think of incorporating 
more explicitly into our constitutional 
framework. 
In Britain the prime minister func­
tions as head of government. She is di­
rectly responsible for the day-to-day 
governing of the country and for the 
formulation of domestic and foreign 
policy. She is politically accountable to 
the Parliament, to the Conservative 
Party, and ultimately to the British 
people as a whole. Should she lose an 
election or lose a vote of confidence in 
the House of Commons, she will be 
replaced with no damage to the nation. 
The queen, on the other hand, func­tions as head of state. As such she is removed from the fray of both electoral politics and policy-making. She is a symbol of the unity of the British nation and embodies all that is thought best of the nation's ideals and aspirations. She further provides a sense of conti­nuity that serves to guarantee the na­tion's identity throughout the various changes in government over the years. 
There are very few true monarchies left in the world. But the separation of the offices of head of government and head of state is not peculiar to constitu­tional monarchies. In most republican regimes a state president serves as head of state, while a prime minister, premier or chancellor serves as head of government. In West Germany, for example, Richard von Weizsacker is the state president and Helmut Kohl is chancellor. Naturally we hear much more about the latter since he is re­

sponsible for day-to-day policy making. 
This arrangement is not so very differ­
ent from that of Great Britain, where 
the monarchy has evolved into little 
more than an hereditary state 
presidency. 

What about the U.S.? We have a pres­ident who functions as both head of gov­ernment and head of state. He is both "king" and "prime minister." Mter nearly 200 years we Americans are rather used to this arrangement. But there are definite drawbacks in this fu­sion of the two offices, and these have become particularly pronounced in recent decades. Rarely is a president able to perform both functions well. To be an effective policy-maker and to unite the nation around shared ideals and aspirations is a most difficult task, particularly during periods of national crisis and controversy. 
For example, John Kennedy was very effective in appealing to the nation's ideals, but he was not effective as a policy-maker. He was a good "king" but not a good "prime minister." Lyn­don Johnson, on the other hand, was an effective "prime minister" during the early part of his term, but he failed as "king." He left office with the nation bitterly divided over an unwinable war in Southeast Asia. 
If any president has been skillful at being both "king" and "prime mini­ster," it has been Ronald Reagan, es­pecially in his first term. Now his ad­ministration is in trouble as well. From the beginning of his tenure his policies have been controversial, and there have been reverses in both foreign and domestic realms. But throughout most 
P.O. BoxQ 
of this time he has been able skillfully 
to weather the political storms by 
retreating into his role as head of state, 
a role he performs magnificently. Even 
when he has failed as "prime mini­
ster," he has succeeded as "king," and 
it is on this basis that he has been able 
to maintain his popularity at such un­
precedented levels. 
Yet the reverses of recent months may spell the end of Reagan's ability to function in either of these roles. His party's loss of the Senate will make it more difficult for him to perform his "prime-ministerial" function. And the current Iranian-Contra scandal may make it impossible for him to perform both his "prime-ministerial" and "kingly" roles. During times of politi­cal crisis our constitution makes no provision for someone to preside over the nation as head of state and to pro­vide badly needed continuity. If the "prime-minister" is tossed out or in­capacitated, the "king" goes with him in our system. 
What is the answer? Yves R. Simon once wrote that in order for a democracy to survive it needs the op­eration of nondemocratic (i.e., monarchical, aristocratic) elements as internal checks on the system. The revival of a full-fledged monarchy is unrealistic and undesirable in our con­text. But we ought seriously to consider the establishment of a separate state president to undertake those functions essential to the stability of the nation. 
David T. Koyzis is a graduate student in government and international studies. 
There are countless resources on campus for those who feel alcohol may be a problem for them. The University Counseling Center is open 9:00-5:00 Monday through Friday (239-7336), and is staffed with caring, compassionate people, some of whom are expecially equipped to help people with substance abuse problems. There are also several Alcoholics Anonymous meetings on campus through the week, and daily meetings around town for those who (needlessly) fear that seeking on­campus help would compromise their anonymity. 
I have often heard (and said) that there is nothing worse than a reformed anything, and so I would like to close this letter by assuring the reader that I do not consider myself superior to anybody--just a lot luckier than some. Alcohol is a drug that too many people become addicted to; alcoholism is a spiritual, emotional, and physical dis­ease that is pervasive and (unless it is arrested), terminal--for the drinker himself, and all too often for innocent bystanders. 
Alcohol situation on campus must be faced 
Dear Editor: 
It was with infinite sadness that I read of the death of Notre Dame Junior Michael Cogswell. Nothing will ever as­suage the pain which his family must feel over his loss. Nor will the person responsible for his death ever be the same. 
Don't misunderstand. I do not presume to point a judgmental finger at the driver whose cat struck Cogswell. It is only by the gr!!~e of God that more alcohol-impaired drivers don't have accidents like this--me, for example, when I was still drinking. None of us who has driven impaired (and I suspect that many people who both drink and have drivers' licenses have done so), is in a position to cast the first stone. 
The alcohol problem in general, and the problem which exists on this campus must be addressed. The drug alcohol is too pervasive to be ignored any longer. I know that nothing any of us can do or say can comfort the griev­ing family of Michael Cogswell; none 
Doonesbury 
ot us can resolve the nightmare of any driver whose impaired condition has caused a death. The only good that can come out of such a a tragedy is preven­tive. All of us must learn to care enough for our friends to be tough with them-­taking their car keys if we think they are impaired. This is a step in the right direction. But we have to go beyond this; we have to start with the source of this needless suffering: alcohol itself. Given the pervasiveness of alcohol use in our society, and the high incidence of its abuse, we have to start treating alcohol as what it is--a drug. 

As a recovering alcoholic, I would like to affirm that life is not only pos­sible, but better without alcohol. It is common to use alcohpl in order to "relax" in social situations, to "calm down" in tense periods or to "celebtate" the achievement of a goal. These are some of the reasons I drank. But isn't it undeniably better to be enough at ease with oneself so that strangers are not threatening, to learn how to resolve rather than medicate stress, to congratulate oneself in a healthy way rather than by ingesting a depressant, a killer of brain cells, a kil­ler of innocent pedestrians? Achieving tor striving for) emotional health to the extent of choosing life rather thatn al­cohol is much harder than medicating against the uncertainty (or as I've come to perceive it, the adventure) of life. I have lived both ways and I find sobriety infinitely more rewarding. 
Admitting to oneself that alcohol is a personal problem is one of the hardest things one can do (believe me!). For those who are unsure whether it is or not, there are several warning signs and symptoms which can be guidelines for determination. Anyone who has more than one blackout (complete loss of memory of waking actions) ought to talk to someone about it. Anyone who notices an increased tolerance to alco­hol (that is, who needs an increasing amount of alcohol to achieve the same "effect") ought to consider that this is exactly what happens to drug addicts. Being a "good drinker" or "being able to hold liquor'' is often a sign of trouble. Anyone who notices behavioral or per­sonality changes ought to remember that alcohol is a depressant. Anyone who is consistently not able to control alcohol intake--that is, who drinks more than he wants or plans to drink--should consider this a sign of trouble. 
Garry Trudeau 

\1ielYJ?-~<>~i~ll~t~------------------------------------------------------------T-hu_r_sd_a_y_,D_e_c_em__be_r_1_1,_1_9s_6_-_P_ag_e_s_ 
The art of listening should be appreciated 
Listening is a virtue rather than an art because it lies in both the human and spiritual dimensions. Taking time out to listen with sensitivity and com­passion to someone who wishes to talk about themselves or their concerns takes, as I have indicated, much sensi­tivity and compassion. We must be more available to whomever crosses our path each day. 
Edward Courtney 
guest column 

Listening is a ministry -one of great value. It is a ministry to which we are called. How often have we ourselves sought in vain for a special someone ­not just anyone -to listen to our heartbreak, our past history, or the ob­stacles we face in our lives? How many times were there successes, joys, and personal good news that we longed to share with "a person," not just anyone or everyone. Would that more of us responded to the quiet call to be min­isters of a healing listening ! 
By being listeners, we aren't going to be solvers of people's problems. They will solve their own. Simply put, as compassionate listeners we allow others to lay it all out where they can see it. (It is sad indeed that such healing rarely takes place because our mouths ordinarily receive more exercise than our ears.) Healing begins from the in­side out and that is why crying is so beneficial. 
I understand that hairdressers and bartenders are now being offered courses in the art of listening. Bartenders, barbers and hairdressers must be excellent listeners. God bless these unsung heroes and heroines al­though it may be good for business. Christians and people of other religious persuasions would do well to remember that it helps the business of the Gospel to also be compassionate listeners. It is somewhat of a sad commentary that often people frequent a bar to seek out someone who will listen to them instead of a religious place, because no one ever seems to be available or at home or one must secure an appointment. Maybe that's too late. Suffering doesn't have office hours. 
I once met a hairdresser who related to me that two of her customers on dif­ferent occasions had been contemplat­ing taking their lives. Fortunately, after hearing them out, she was able to persuade them that other options were available. I submit that such persua­sion was made much easier since com­passionate listening allowed her distressed clients the opportunity to un­burden their hearts. 
It is pretty well established that many people check into a hospital be­cause they are lonely and need someone to whom they can talk. The most effec­tive balm that hospitals dispense is of­ten compassionate listening. Ask any nurse. 
Pope Pius the XII said: "To be a Christian is to be a missionary." To whom, and where? Wherever we meet our burdened brothers and sisters. There is so much unhappiness in the world. We could bring so much happi­ness to others if we would only take the time to be good listeners. The time that we give isn't the important thing. The quality of that time is : to really feel the hurt and the pain that the other is 
experiencing. Without this experience 
of the other, I doubt very much the abil 
ity to relate to a troubled brother or 
sister. 
We are all responsible before G9d for 
the happiness of our brothers and 
sisters in the Lord. Jesus didn't desig­
nate. Some people were to be excluded. 
All are brothers and sisters. Equally. 
No double standard with the Lord. The 
prayer of the compassionate listener 
will be undoubtedly be heard much 
sooner than the one who can't be bro· 
ther with a troubled brother or sister. 
Make no mistake about that, my 
friends. 
The fact of the matter is that we are so wrapped up in our own little paradises, in our fashionable careers and self-image that we forget to care for our many troubled brothers and sisters. Oftentimes, the people who should be the most caring are not. And I have some candidates in mind. Ego, important as it is in perspective, has become an idol to the exclusion of others. 
The principal of one eastern school once sent a questionnaire to each mem­ber of the 800 member student body. One of the questions was: "If you were experiencing a difficulty in your life, whom would you approach for assis­tance?" The vast majority of the stu­dents chose the janitor or sexton. Why? He would care, he would listen, he would understand. He would take time. He would bear a confidence. He prob­ably had the same experiences when he was a youth. So you see, friends, no matter what our background, social standing or educational qualifications happen to be, we can all do so much good. So just look around and for good­ness sakes be available! 
Try to avoid the ministry of listening out of a sense of duty. Go beyond that. That is where a real loving concern is apparent. Most people do their duty each day. How many will walk with a brother or sister that extra mile that the Lord emphasized? I do believe that there are generous folks who are going that extra mile for a brother or sister. There are also those who aren't. And maybe some of them are committed religious folks. 
Our own blessed Brother Andre, 
C.S.C., whom Pope John Paul the II 
beatified in 1983 in Rome, was one who 
went far beyond the call of duty because 
there were brothers and sisters who 
needed desperately just one word of 
consolation, just one word of sympathy. 
This loving and caring French 
Canadian Holy Cross Brother would 
receive one to 300 people a day at St. 
Joseph's Oratory in Montreal for over 
30 years, from 1904 to 1937. If that 
wasn't enough service, he would travel 
by car in the evening to visit the homes 
of the shut-in and the patients in the 
hospital. This is to me love personified. 
We can certainly imitate his spirit of 
zeal for others. 
Permit me to touch on another area 
of the virtue of listening. It's about lis­
tening to our children. Children, like 
anyone else, enjoy talking at times: 
their fears, hopes, doubts, good things 
and the unpleasant. Child abuse is cer­
tainly on the increase today. It is espe­
cially important that we make our­
selves available to listen to them, or we 
may never know what is happening in 
their lives until it's too late. They need 
encouragement. They need to be af­
firmed as persons, to know that we love them, that they are good and worthwhile persons. Praise them for a task well done. Correct them when they are wrong. Talk things out. Hear them out. Listen. If we as adults are wrong in our assessment sometimes, apologize and admit our mistake. Our children are our greatest investment; they are God's gift to us. Someone once said that we educate our children by listening to them, by playing with them, talking to them, by reading to them and by taking them to parks and to museums. We must leave them grow at their own pace and with their own God given talents. 

Finally, whenever anyone writes something to be read by others, it is like submitting to an examination. It will be given a grade, a mark. I hope that what I have written will be of some assistance and motivation to someone somewhere, sometime. That was my sole intention. 
Brother Edward Courtney, C.S.C. is a resident of Columba Hall. 
P.O. Box Q 
Solution needed now for drunk driving 
Dear Editor: 

In Tuesday's Observer, Bacchus club President John Sheehy declared: "We want to create an awareness and ed­ucate people to what drinking and driving can do." This statement simply represents another useless effort to curb the problem of drunk driving. Awareness is not the problem, drunk driving is. We no longer need to in­crease awareness, we need to find a solution to drunk driving. We believe that the alcohol policy is the root of this problem. Because of the policy, stu­dents go off to campus to socialize and to drink, which leads to drunk driving. 
The solution is not to ban alcohol from the Notre Dame campus. Alcohol has always been, and always will be, a so­cial catylyst. While some may contend that alcohol is not necessary for effec­tive socialization, the fact remains that people find it to be effective and useful for the promotion of necessary social intercourse. People will find ways to consume alcohol, regardless of any im­posed restrictions. The alcohol policy is one such restriction, and students have circumvented this restriction by drinking off campus, for which driving is often necessary. 
The solution is not tighter restrictions on alcohol, but rather, to remove the alcohol policy and to allow open alcohol consumption on campus. This would en­courage people to stay on campus rather than leaving the campus to drink, which endangers the lives of others. 
In order to prevent students from driving off campus while intoxicated, becuase of an open alcohol policy, se­curity could monitor the students as they -left the parking lots. Gates could be erected and manned on Friday and Saturday nights at the parking lot exits. To avoid inconvenience for those who have not indulged in alcohol, the exits should be manned only during those hours in which alcohol conumption is most likely to occur. 
Drunk driving obviously leads to tragic consequences. We are already aware of the problem, which is en­hanced by the alcohol policy, so let's find a solution. 
Kevin Trautner Sean O'Brien Flanner HaLL 

More civility needed at talks, in lectures 
Dear Editor: 
We are once more treated to Adolfo Calero's "inside story" on Nicaragua in Viewpoint (December 2). I cannot forget his disruptive "interventions" when Edgar Chamorro spoke here last year, and if his antics were similar during Vice President Ramirez' talk last week, he should have been told to "sit down and shut up." Civility is a precondition for the free interchange of a university and those who abuse it only show that they need to be reminded of that fact. Moreover, his breezy libel of liberation theology (in his December 2 letter) should alert students to the reliability of this particular "insider's" view of matters in Central America. I can only hope his work as a graduate student is more responsible than his let­ters or his behavior in lectures. 
David Burrell Professor, Philosoph1}'Theology 

~ '-1\/ I N D S OF CHANGE.~ 
General Board


Ihe ObserYer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer Is the lndeoendent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac ...nd Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan ·OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1968 


Accent 
In search of . • • 
Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 9 

the perfect gift 
ANDY SAAL 
features writer 
Well It's December again. And if you're like most college stu­dents. you haven't even thought of Christmas shopping yet. But don't despair. We're all going to have to do our shopping during those four hours between the end of finals and the start of the big day. 
Finding the right gift for a per­son has always been a challenge. Of course, if you're like me, all of your friends will be receiving a McDonald's Gift Certificate this year, maybe even two. They make very economical gifts; when you buy a book of I0, they also give you a cute little Christmas stocking decorated with Fievel Mousekewltz. Who's Flevel? Well, he's the animated rodent starring in An American Tale. The story Is ali about a little, poor, Jewish Immigrant mouse who... Jewish? On a Christmas stocking? Forgive me, oh, great hamburger mecca, but I'm con­fused. 
Shopping for a darner is per­haps the hardest task of all. Everyone already has a Notre Dame sweatshirt. as well as most everything else in the bookstore. As a veteran of the Cabbage Patch Wars of 1985, I would like to offer a few unique suggestions for some ideal domer gifts. 
Do you know someone in the College ofArts and Letters? Then you know how long they slave over their typewriter. "Sorry, I can't go out tonight. .. I've got a JO-page paper on Keats due tomorrow." Have you ever felt sorry for them? Me neither. But If you need a partner to go to the bars, you know what a pain those papers can be. Well, this doesn't have to be a problem anymore. Now there's the A plus L Word Processor. All you do is Insert one page of facts or Ideas, and the machine will water it down with redundant statements, am­biguity, repeated ideas and thoughts you've already ex­pressed elsewhere. And with a 
jargon:fact ratio of I 0: I, you and your friends can be in the bars by 9 p.m. Imagine, being able to say in I 0 pages what you could have said clearly In one! 
Ifa lonely darner guy is on your shopping list, you may have to search a long time to find him something morally upright and decent with which to decorate his room. A lifeslze Inflatable doli of Cyblll Shepherd or Vanna White should fill the niche quite nicely. 
It  can  not  only  be  used  as  a  
decoration  but also  as an  SYR  
date.  ·  

Did you ever want to be the center of conversation at every table In the dining hall? What you need Is the Letter to the Editor Generator. With this classy, caus­tic computer, you too can create complete cacophony on any con­servative Catholic college campus: 
Dear Editor, I believe that (a. abortion, b. nuclear weapons, c. Nicaragua, 
d. abusing gerbils) Is morallyjus­tifiable. Anyone who disagrees with me Is (a. a communist. b. damned to hell for eternity, c. a 
Hoosier). Sincerely, (a. your real name, 
b. your roommate's name, c. Ann Pettlfer, d. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.) Just think how popular you'll be on campus. And of course, for the next three weeks, every letter In the newspaper will be aimed at you. Just leave your phone off the hook... 
Have you ever wondered just how acidic the orange juice was in the dining hall? Just what part of what animal constituted that thing reputed to be meat on your plate? Now you can answer these questions and many others with the Dining Hall Chemistry Kit. It includes acldtbase titration equipment so you can figure out the pH of any dining hall secre­tions, a protein assay test to Identify any piece of meat and a direct phone link to the Polson Control Center. 
Another dining hall device Is also sure to be a big hit this Christmas. Have you ever noticed how people try to scoop out more marshmallows than cereal when they get a bowl of Lucky Charms? No matter how much effort Is involved, It just cannot be done efficiently... at least until now. Just off the drawing boards of a crackpot druid, It's the Lucky Charms Marshmallow Magnet. Operating on the Zen principle of selective 
Ionization, the magnet attracts all of those yellow moons, or­ange stars and green clovers out of the bland cat food part and deposits them Into your bowl. So 
if you're tired of picking through a tub of dry cereal looking for the good stuff, the Lucky Charms ~ •. Marshmallow Magnet is for you. 
Of course, If none of these gift Ideas suits your tastes, you can always give a domer the univer­sal gift of domer fashion. Orien­tal sweaters? European designer jeans? Nope. This is Notre Dame where your social status Is deter­mined by your wardrobe...and that wardrobe consists of sweat­pants. 

Personal approach to University 

NIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
A 

CONTEMPORARY 
PORTRAIT 
KATHY BEHRMANN Features writer 
"University of Notre Dame: a Comtemporary Portrait" is not only a book new to Notre Dame. It is, according to its author Robert Schmuhl, the first time any university has tried anything like it. 
and emphasizes the underlying philosophies of the colleges. 
Schmuhl calls his volume a "book of parts." He says the reader gets "narrative and pic­tures and profiles about and from the people." The people in­terviewed in the book include University Provost Timothy O'Meara, who originally had the 
iversity of Notre Dame: a Contemporary Portrait 
Robert Schmuhl 

Published this year by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Press, Schmuhl's book Is not simply a chronicle of Notre Dame's past and you'll find nothing ofthe Gip­per here. Instead "University of Notre Dame: a Comtemporary Portrait" focuses on the intellec­tual life of Notre Dame at the mo­ment. 
After a chapter describing the origins of the University, Schmuhl addresses each col­lege, the law school and the graduate school. The book ex­plores the various programs of study and research endeavors idea for such a book; Father Theodore Hesburgh and the deans of all the colleges. There are also comments from numerous professors. 
The 72 photographs by alumnus Stephen Moriarty are well chosen. They illustrate infor­mation about the University's facilities and Its people. The pic­tures also help to make the book a truly comprehensive portrait of Notre Dame. 
"University of Notre Dame: a Contemporary Portrait" portrays the school in a very favorable light but still manages to high­light what Schmuhl calls "cros­scurrents" at Notre Dame. These issues Include the questions such as whether the University can remain an excellent teaching institution while becoming a cen­ter of research and whether the Catholic character ofNotre Dame helps or hinders its academics. 
A combination of facts and opinions addresses these issues effectively. This is not a book that throws out isolated fun facts about Notre Dame. Instead, It is a portrait of the character and goals of the University, with a definite emphasis on academics. 
Schmuhl, an assistant profes­sor of American Studies, spent three years researching. con­ducting Interviews, and writing this book. "Provost Timothy 
O'Meara wanted to see a volume ­to bring together the history of the University with a focus on what is happening now and plans for the future," he explained. 
"University of Notre Dame: a Contemporary Portr .It" is just that. and the abundance of Inter­views and photographs make It an enjoyable as well as an In­formative book. 
-~ -~-­

The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 10 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfieds is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by maiL The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day_ 
NOTICES  2 DUDES NEED RIDES TO THE TWIN CITIES­WOULD LIKE TO LEAVE THURS NITE  Do Cornmo.mlsm and Christianity mix? Come find out at the last meeting of the Little Stevie Worland fan club, Friday  DAMSEL IN DISTRESS! I NEED A RIDE FOR CHRISTMAS BREAK  RALLY VERMINI Our way-boss home has just been snatched by a brick move by our cheesy administration. RALLY  Jacqule Benchlk -Happy llnallingll Study hard, Stay off those streets. Have a  
CALL GREG x4334  Dec. 12 at 3:25p.m. Workers (and Wor­ ANYWHERE IN THE VICINITY OF  VERMIN I  great week If I don't see ya before  
WORDPROCESSING 2n-8131  land lana) of the world unltel  BINGHAMTON, SYRACUSE, OR ELMIRA, NY.  Killeen,  Krista,  Kellle,  Ann,  Donna,  break! -Your BETTER Half  
WE NEED 2 RIDES TO NYC  to all who put up wtth me during the last  CAN LIEAVE FRIDAY, DEC. 19, AFTER  Andrea, Marl, Jimmy, Brian, John, Andy,  MARGIE KERSTEN  
FOR XMAS. CALL BOB X 2354  two months  1 :00  PM.  WILL  SHARE  EXPENSES.  AI, Danny, and all "THE QUINT" partlers:  Sorry about pigging up the personals  
SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR$$$$$ PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loce­tlon: 808 Howard St. just oft of N.D. Ave.  OR DAN X 2329.  THANK YOU. You helped me so much. Gert  PLEASE CALL ERIN AT 3706. SKIS FOR SALE  You're the best friends anyone could ask fori Have a great vacation, I'll miss you all very much. Merry Christmas and stay  I can't help lt--1 love this place. Have fun on finals -Thanks for all your helpII  
ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­530  Need ride No. NJ for Xmas Janet 284­4348  SENIORS ·SENIORS -SENIORS SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF  ROSSIGNAL SM, 185 CM, WITH BIN· DINGS, GREAT COND $115 CALL JOE  safe!! Love, Anne-Marie  Love Ya, Your Helpful Assistant.  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. Dan still types papersl Only $.901>age.  I NEED A RIDE TO BUFFALO,N.Y. CAN LEAVE FRIDAY NIGHT.MONEY NO PROBLEM. CALL TONY AT 234 3250  SPRING SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS DEADLINE: DECEMBER 18, 1&ae. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA­VICES.  £1190 HAPPY  22nd, SPONGEI Soak good time today!  up a  Bruce G. £15, Love of my llfe-,"Out of sight, out of mind"? Did you forget about ME ?I? Your HTH ANDY FENOGLIO, JIM GALLAGHER,  To two soon to be evicted Howard SYR dates; Thanks for a great Friday nightl Have fun with finals. What will you guys do next year? Bryn.  
233-1988  STAYING HERE FOR BREAK? LIKE  CAREY GELS, KATHLEEN HOGAN,  
PITTSBURGH CLUB BUS SIGNUPS  CATS? WANT TO MAKE SOME EASY $? WE NEED SOMEONE TO CAT-SIT  SENIORS ·SENIORS -SENIORS  ODE Courtesy Christmas Dinner at Chi Chi's  MATT HONKANEN, JARAMILLO, MICHAEL  NARCISO NAUGHTON,  BILL KENNEDYII You Stanford Godl What is your REAL phone number??  
SEATS STILL AVAILABLE  12-24-V4. ALL YOU  HAVE TO DO IS  SIGN  UPS  FOR  FIRST  WEEK  OF  Lib. Circle -5:30 Dec. 11  KHALIL SHALABI, ANNE WALTON - JUDY  
Slgnupe at Lafortune 7:00 p.m. on Thursday December 11. Any questions  VISIT OUR TWO CATS DAILY TO FEED AND PET THEM. TERMS NEGOTI­ SPRING  SEMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS  S.. Shirley In The ObHrver olllce.  
cell Red x1612 or Mike x3402  ABLE.  IF YOU  CAN  HELP US OUT,  DEADLINE:  DECEMBER  111,  1888.  PLEASE, HELP MEl I NEED A RIDE TO  STEVE AUERBACH  Stud, Here's to new beginnings.  
CALL 239-5799 (DAYS) OR 233-9106  CAREER  AND  PLACEMENT  SEA·  PHILA.  OVER  BREAK.  WILLING  TO  IF I PROMISE TO LOCK UP THE DAG­ All my love, Ace.  
UNDERWATER ARCHAEOLOGY SEM­ (EVES.)  VICES.  SHARE USUAL EXPENSES. CALL KIM  GERS, WILL YOU COME VISIT AGAIN?  
INAR:  FEB 13-15, Lecture,Semlnar,ln­ AT 1264  A SURPRISE WILL BE WAITING.  BEWARE ALL MALE DORMS AT NOll  
pool tralnlng-PADI Cert;INFO at Anthro Off,3rd II O'Shag;O.W. Cert req. LOST/FOUND I  Campus travel representative needed to promote Spring Break tour to Florida. Eam money, free travel, and outstanding marketing experience. Call Inter-Campus Programs at 1-801}433-7747 for details and Information mailer.  SENIORS -SENIORS -SENIORS SIGN UPS FOR FIRST WEEK OF SPRING ~EMESTER INVITATIONAL INTERVIEWS DEADLINE: DECEMBER 19, 1888. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER·  GOING EAST FOR X-MAS & NEED A RIDE TO CT? I'M LEAVING DEC. 16 AFTER 10AM OR EARLY AM DEC. 17. CALL CARRIE AT SMC 4288 ASAP. GOING EAST FOR X-MAS & NEED A  JENNY Even though you're not here, It's you I think oil PACO NEED RIDE TO NliBOSTON FOR BREAK. CAN LEAVE 12119 PM. WILL HELP WITH DRIVING AND $$. CALL  THE boys OF howard WILL BE POS­SESSING YOU ALL TOO SOON...(beware of the ones from the second floor...) R.C.SMC'S (Really Con­cerned SMC's) Happy Birthday  
HELP!! I lost my eye-glasses on Nov. 26 just before break. H you found them pleass call me at 287-4831. They were In a black case and were an amber men's style.  Need ride to New York. Am graduating and have much luggage so would like to be only rider. Will PAY ALL GAS and bake DELICIOUS COOKIES. Call Tracy 233-9806.  VICES. CAMERATA SINGERS of N.D. fame DEBUT ... A CONCERT OF SACRED MUSIC This Sunday at 8:00p.m. Moreau  RIDE TO CT? I'M LEAVING DEC. 16 AFTER 10AM OR EARLY AM DEC 17. CALL CARRIE AT SMC42BB ASAP Grape Jello?  PAT, 2n-6451. HELP!II I need to borrow a 12-string guitar to play at the CHRISTMAS NAZZ on Sat. Please cell Jeff at 232-5478 or Mike at  JANE WELDON I MARY BUDDE Sorry that this me888ge is late. Love ya, Maria  
LOST: a GUCCI KEY RING with keys numbered 243. If found please call x3738. Pleass retum. LOST: THICK GOLD BANGLE BRACELET WITH ENGRAVED DESIGN. POSSIBLY LOST AT  Wanted: Swim Instructors for Red Cross Beginners Classes. Saturday Mornings andbr Weekday Evenings. Start In Jan­uary. Volunteers please cell LOGAN Recreation: Bill Thomas -289-4831 Helpl I need rides to and from Dayton  Seminary Chepel Gaye, the lady in the Saint Mary's dining hall Cheer upl You're wonderful, and always have been. Merry Chrlstmaslll SMC OBSERVER STAFF  "A little ditty 'bout Jack end Diane--two American kids doln' best they cen." No, I won't loss that Innocent laughter; time won't take that awayl Gatta love Johnny I Merry Christmas to M.J. Meeksl  2511 if you can LEND one. Please help me out. --MARY HEILMANN --Let me first say that I enjoyed your article In yesterday's Ob­server...BUT DID YOU HAVE TO RUIN IT FOR THOSE OF US WHO STILL  In a bathtub? Hey Debblel Want some ICE Cream?  Love Tom  
BRIDGET'S OR MORRISSEY. FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4351.  IF  for break. If you cen help either way, cell Mark X2072. Will pa)l'lihare expenses.  Merry Christmas to Noreen O'Connorl  BELIEVED IN SANTA CLAUSI?  Anne Thanks for coming to my SYR.  
LOST; WED. NIGHT,1V4, AT BRIDGETS, A LARGE BLACK SCARF WWHITE FLECKS. PLEASE CALL  I need ride to MPLS. Can leave 1Bth or 19th will share expenses. Call Phil 4058  I need a ride to CONNECTICUT! Preferably Falrlleld County or Westchester, N.Y. area. Can leave FRI. CALL TOM j 945  Merry Christmas to Ramzl Bualuanl Merry Christmas to Kelly Townsend!  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS  Love Rob  
MEGAN 1242 TO RETURN IT AND I WILL LOVE YOU FOREVER. FOUND: Walkman In O'Shag Computer Lab before Turkey break.To claim, cell 233-2235. FOUND: CAMERA ON VENDING MAC­HINES IN NIEUWLAND SCIENCE.  Need someone who has access to van to drive me eastward. Call Motel 6 and ask for Harriett Howells, Room 188. NEEDED: TWO ONE-WAY RIDES TO D.C., NORTHERN VA. AREA --share ex­penses, rental car nnecessary. LEAVE SAT.12-20prei.CALL Tlm£348BorMick £1no.  Long live the OAK. Forever Immortal. HELPI Need ride to and from D.C. area for break can leave as early as 7pm Wed.17 Please call Karen 284-4011 Going to MPLS Dec. 18-or 19? I need rldel Will pay expenses LeeAnn 284­ Merry Christmas to Chris Edwardsl Dear MARK POTTER, Have a really marve Christmasll Merry Christmas to Colleen Foyl Merry Christmas to Esther lvoryl  JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS ALL WHO RECEIVED COLOR PORTRAITS FROM DOGBOOK PICTURES IF YOU RECEIVED A PIC­TURE THAT IS INCORRECT PLEASE RETURN IT TO THE JUNIOR CLASS OFFICE WE WILL SORT IT OUT AND RETURN THEM AFTER BREAK. WE'RE SORRY FOR THE MISTAKE. THE PIC­ BAHAMASII BAHAMASII BAHAMASII 5 day&' 4 nights M airfare from Ft. Laud. $124. Call Jim at 1913 for info.  
CALL NIKKI IN CHEMISTRY DEPT. 239­7058. LOST: Two sets of Arena b-ball tix, sec­tion 4, row 4, seats 8 and 9 ... They weren't even mlnell Pleass save my Christmas, my friendships, my wallet .. . Hfound cell Linda x435511111 HELPI I LOST MY BASKETBALL TICK­ETS (SECTION 106, ROW 7, SEAT 6) AT OR ON CAMPUS AFTER THE BYU GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SUSAN AT 3435.  FOR SALE FUTONS: 100% cotton sleep mattresses, hardwood convertible frames and acces­sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South Michigan St. 233-8176. FOR SALE: CABER SKI BOOT$(7112) CALL PAT 1581 1 way air ticket SB to BALTO.  5439. HI Panl Season's Greetings .from NJ. How's the weather In Texas? Miss ya, MB YOUTH IN ASIA opening for IN MY SHRUBBERY Thursday night at Lee's. Y'all Camel DOME-OPOLY A Great Christmas Giftl  Yes Santa, there is a Mary Heilmann (but we won't tell our kldsl) BRUCE G. WE STUDY IN BRARE ON FRIDAYS NAME BEGINS W/J, BUT ISN'T JAY Pleass cell x45ejersey no. FLANNER 5A-Thanx lor a OAK good tlmel Love, your BP dates PS-Mad nibbler--the other three of us ZUMA--Your KK loves youlll  TURE MAN HAS BEEN WORKING MUCH TOO HARD I JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS How would you like to spend an hour with Father Ted? You can... Listen to WVFI-AM 640's  OBSERVER PERSONALS A battlefield for verbal wars, a chess­board for strategic confrontations, a bed for intimate lovers (thoss not wishing to violate Du-Lac), a chainsaw lor emmense cut-downs, and best of all, a breath of hope In a world filled with desolation and despair that chokes each one of us and attempts to swallow our souls, the very part of us which crys out in vain ...(a shovel to toss BS).  
Keys on an NO keyrlng left in Observer office. See Shirley to claim. Whoever took my black scerl from Bridgets 1V4, If you don't want to cell, please drop it off at the lost&found in LaFortune. It' means a lot to me. FOUND: BASKETBALL TIX IN ACC. SECTION 104 ROW 11 SEAT 23. CALL MIKE 2371 TO CLAIM LOST: brown WALLET between 331 Nleuwland and 208 Cushing on Wed. momlng (the sunny day). If found, please call Jeff at 2n-B940 soon. I'm getting hungry without lt. LOST:Gold add-a-pearl necklace, small graduated pearls, H found call Tara at 1242. LOST: down ski jacket. Navy, wted&white stripes across chest. n found, call 288-2853 or return to lost and found, LaFortune. SEX -IS HARD TO GET SINCE I'M LOCKED OUTIII LOST ND BRASS KEY RING WI 420 AND OS KEYS. PLEASE CALL 3488 IF FOUNDIII  Jan.5. $45. 272-4321. COMPUTER, MAC 128, printer, Access. Chris 289-3499 FOR SALE: 1982 CHEVETTE. 4 speed, AMFM, sunroof. $1895. Call Dan: 239­7943 or 234-8984. A REAL CHRISTMAS PRESENT: '85 Toyota Fiesta Van Conversion with EFI, auto, overdrive (25mpg), ps, pb, pw, pi, arMm ster. cess, dual aloheat, refrlg, slvobrgndy. Only 11 k miles, warranty, 1 owner. Top quality conversion In perfect condition. An $1 Bk value but will accept reasonable offer around $13k by Mon., Dec. 15. Financing available. See and drive at ND Credit Union 8:30-4:30. Evenings 233-1950. A BEST BUY. ACT NOW. FOR SALE -ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET CHICAGO O'HARE TO PORTLAND OREGON. DEPARTS 12-22 O'HARE, RETURNS 1112, $225. INTER­ESTED CALL £3028 OR £3468. TICKETS  DOME-OPOLY An N[}SMC Board Game ... for alurrinl who have "everything" DOME-OPOLY It's new,lt's fun, and It's available for Christmas at the NOOMC Bookstores DOME-OPOLY A Great Christmas Giftl ANDY, That's right, YOU slob. Happy 21stlll Your Bro, JOE The Amazing.. . The Awesome.. . The Uttraharmonlc ... NOTRE DAME CAMERATA SINGERS live at the Moreau Seminary Chapel one engagement only, Sunday, December 14, 8 p.m. Free admission. Be there or B flat. When Father Ted Hesburgh talks You can listen...  And Merry Christmas to Dawn Meyerl NJ CLUB BUS $90 SIGNUPS THURS & FRI LAFOR­TUNE LOBBY 6-7 PM QUESTIONS CALL JOHN 2215 OR DEB 284-5147 HARD ROCK CAFE FINAL NOTICE Ill SWEATSHIRTS FOR NOOMC NOW INI AVAILABLE IN L&XL. CALL 2n-2766 OR AT SMC X-MAS BAZAAR IN LEMAN$ Need ride East!!l I need a ride to Pittsburgh over _ break. If you are going east on the turnpike and can offer me a ride, call Mary at 372&. Share usual expenses. D FUN FUN FUN THEODORE$ STUDY BREAK C SATURDAY 8-11  weekly talkshow "Campus Perspectives" University President Father Theodore Hesburgh is the special guest.......................... ARTS & LETTERS OFF-CAMPUS STU­DENTS Newsletters available in 101 O'Shag Fish-eating, game-playing, yet CHILD­BEARING slime of America--GUNITEII WE ARE SUPERIOR!! Questions? Call 3677. Ask for JP. THANKS FOR THE CALL TERESA AND BRIDGET ITS GREAT TO KNOW THERE ARE FUN LOVING FRIENDLY GIRLS ON CAMPUS ANDY ANDY "SPECK" -THANKS FOR RES­PONDING. LET'S MUD WRESTLE SOON. TH & BM MERRY CHRISTMAS Moira Jen Chris­teen Mary Kristen Kathy Irene Jen Thanks for everything!! Have a great breakl I'll miss yall Love, Eileen  Good Luck on Finals & Merry Christmas Katie E., Suzie M., Kathleen M.. Amy F., Ann B., Angle C., Ann Marie F., Colleen D., Tressa S., Maureen R. -and all who need nl H. ......................... Best ot Luck In Washington-Best of Luck Washington I Bye Suziel H. Going to St. Louis on the 19th? Well, how about giving me a ride? Willing to pay $$$ Call me day or night al x3333 Sarah M.(my boss?): Stop by 323 sometime! Life does exist on the third floor! I'll even break out the good stuff In your honor. Tuesday Worker Jsck: Why do all NOOMC girls want only to be your best friend? Remember Liquor  
FOR RENT  Need GAe for N. Carolina and Duke. Call Blll,2008  Tune In WVFI-AM 640's weekly talkshow "Campus Pen1pectlves" Thursday night from 1 0 to 11 and listen to Notre Dame President  D FREE FOOD FREE FOOD THEODORES STUDY BREAK C SATURDAY  TOM SWAYKUS: Not only did you BREAK my heart, but you STEPPED on the pieces!! Why didn't you call back? HIt's another  helps I  White Boy  
APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. CALL 1-982-6483 FOR DETAILS. ASK FOR CHAD. FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 8838889  NEED 3-4 NC TIXS. Pleass call Todd 2551 PERSONALS  Father Theodore M. Hesburgh. Notre Dame Encounter Retreat Weekend coming Feb 6-B Applications Available Wed Jan 14 due Fri Jan 23 Campus Ministry Office Bedln Hall  B-11 D DJOANCING THEODORE$ STUDY BREAK C SATURDAY 8-11  girl I would have understood, but you COULD have said so. But If It's NOT... ---The Rlddler Rider wanted to Central Jerssy (Woodbridge area) cell Frank at x1692 after 11 pm  Elizabeth: (The Starving musician In Lyons) How about another reel date sometime? That last meeting was too excltingl Give me a call. We gofte break out the Kooi­Aid again and take a long atroll around the lake before X-mas. "The Bird"  
Roommate needed to share houss. $165month. Private room. Gred. student weloome. Call 289-8203 latenltes.  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  Questlone? Contact Br. Bonaventure 239-7353, Sr. Jo Glarrante 239-5740 or Jim Wimblacus 283-2091  To Beth, Mark, Pat, Voile, Laurie, Mike, Paula, Megan, Diane, Ted, Mlsh and all of you  Get wild, get psyched ANN KAL TEN­BACH It's YOUR 22nd B-DAYII Now you REALLY  Katy K.(fopa): Stop by sometime and we'll see II It worke. It's 323, just In case you forgot.  
- Looking for Aplin Chnown '88 Grad has furnished apt for subleass jan '87 to may '87 call 2002 3-4 Bdrrn., 2 bath, newly decorated house. Monitored security system. 922 Allen St. Call 234-8688. WANTED PREGNANT? Or know someone who is? Warm, well-educated, happy couple, married 11 years, unable to have children of our own, want to share our loving home with a baby. Confidentiality assured: medical expenses paid. Call 317-257­3869.  SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$111 PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loce­tlon: BOB Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­530 Available 2nd semester & fall '87 4Br houss furnished, secure 4-5 stu­dents,$440.rotnonth You pay utilities, cell Geofl or Mary 288-7276 TWO RIDERS GOING EAST ALONG 1­90 FROM CLIEVELAND TO BUFFALO AGAIN. IF YOU CAN BRING US ALONG PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. CAN LEAVE ANYTlME AFTER 4 PM FRIDAY AND MONEY NO PROBLEM. PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED. CALL 259-8822 OR 259­3187.  DON'T YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF? ND Encounter Weekend Fri, Feb 6 -Sat, Feb B Quastlons? Br. Bonaventure 239-7353 or Jim Wlmblscus 283-2091 10th ANNUAL CHRISTMAS NAZZ Saturday, December 13th. 7:00 -?Center for Social Concerns THE GRINCH, ORIGINAL MUSIC, FREE COOKIES & HOT COCOA ... Become part of the tredltlon. "Christmas Mualc, Christmas Magic. . . • How were all the men with their puckered lips at Bridgete. A true blue friend OUGHT TO RETURN THE FAVOR TO A WON­DERFULL BUDDY LIKE PATTI TRIPATHI. SOUND THE ALARM BEFORE. HAPPY BIRTHDAYII  "My heart Is warm with the friends I make And better friends I'll not be knowing." Merry Christmas JFM A. Benet --.Sure, I'll stop talking to my lamp as soon as you stop saying '1otally" every five seconds or watching game shows...uh, yeah. Just remember, every revolution becomes an orthodoxy sooner or later but we'll always have Paris. Yer Pal, The Ten Foot Teddy Bear with Chartle Brown Eyes NEED A RIDE TO PH ILLY. WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES. I DON'T TAKE UP MUCH ROOM. CALL AMY, 2n9. CLOSE CORBY NOT CARROLLIIII CARROLL HALL-How much further off­campus do they want us?  have to be responsible. (FOR WHAT??) -Your fellow SMC Observer Consplrato (Goddess) RACHEL SCHUSTER Is 19 todayll Live before finals babel OR live after finals In Boston with You Know Who?? MARGARET DEVINE-Cheer upl I know It's tough but you've done It before, you'll do It again. In quite the positive wayll (Maybe I won't starve, I can be a poet.) ................H~v-c:i~d'~:·i-~;;;-,,, ....,..........  Bring your SMC frlendsl We'll show you a good timel Co-Worker No Bob W , you don't sound too des­perate -Katy Need ride returning from St. Louis After Christmas break... Call Greg x3233 Hey everyone at St. Mary's (especially the ones I know like Anne, Landry, Ailsa, Trish, Molly, Moira, Ann, Mo, Ellen, Bridget, Ksthy, Mary, Mary, Carrie, Angle, Marcie, Loria, Patty, Natille, Eve, Eileen, Karen, Michele), heve a Great (Rad) Christmasl Love Rob  


The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 11 
will be David Rivers, whose
Lineup 
comeback seems complete if 
continuedfrom page 16 the BYU game is the measur­ing stick. 
Phelps is looking for another Rivers fired in 22 pointssolid outing from Scott Hicks. 
against the Cougars and his The senior co-captain has been average stands at 13.8 points on a tear, pouring in 14.3 points per game. He also leads the and 3.8 rebounds a game. team with 5.5 reboundingJoining Hicks in the backline average. 


SENIORS 
1987 is less than a month away-­What next? Look at an alternative to High Tech, Big Bus., and Corp. Exec. Consider HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES-­A 1 YEAR-LAY-VOLUNTEER-SERVICE PROGRAM. 


v.o..750 
$799 

Bartles & James 
$2.99 

Southern Comfort .750 
$799 

Dodger Manager Tom Lasorda, a guest speaker at the Irish football banquet last week. was the center of attention once again at the baseball 
Baseball meetings 
Dawson, Morris to leave teams 
Associated Press 

HOLLYWOOD, Fla. -Jack Morris will not play for the Detroit Tigers next season and Andre Dawson will leave the Montreal Expos, their agent promised Wednesday. 
The declaration that Morris and Dawson would challenge the free-agent system came minutes before the first major trades of baseball's winter meetings. 
Seattle made two deals, sen­ding outfielder baseman 
Cut -Rate -Liquors 
7.99



Danny Tartabull to Kansas City for pitchers Scott Bankhead and Steve Shields, and trading reliever Matt Young to Los Angeles for pitcher Dennis Powell. 
The Dodgers also acquired pitcher Tim Leary from Mil­waukee for first baseman Greg Brock. 
But the big news concerned the big free agents, Morris and Dawson. 
Agent Dick Moss, who suc­cessfully argued the Andy Messersmith case that essen­tially created free agency, said 
Morris and Dawson were com­
mitted to leaving. 
Morris and Dawson have 
both been offered salary ar­
bitration by their teams. The 
All-Stars have until Dec. 19 to 
accept or reject the proposal, 
and if they say no, their teams 
must sign them by Jan. 8 or lose 
that right until May 1. 
Moss said Morris, a 21-game winner, gave him a list of four teams he would like to pitch for -the New York Yankees, Cali fornia, Philadelphia and Min­nesota -and would try to sign a new contract within a week. 
Morris, who made $950,000 last season, rejected Detroit's lone offer since the season ended, a two-year contract for $2.5 million. Moss said the Tigers "have indicated no change" and that Morris turned down Detroit's offer to meet again Thursday. 
Dawson, who batted .284 with 20 home runs and 78 runs batted in, has rejected the Expos' con­tract offer of $2 million for two years. 
Later in the day, as several teams -including Detroit ­began leaving the meetings, Seattle sent Young to the Dodgers for pitcher Dennis Powell and a minor-league player. 
Young, 28, led the Mariners with 13 saves and went 8-6 with a 3.82 ERA. he was an All-Star as a rookie with Seattle in 1983. 
At last year's winter meetings, Los Angeles ac­quired lefty reliever Ed Vande Berg from Seattle for catcher Steve Yeager. Vande Berg did not do well, going 1-5 with no saves, as the Dodgers' bullpen collapsed. 
Powell went 2-7 for Los An­geles, his first year spent mostly in the majors. Powell, 23, is a hard thrower who en­joyed considerable success in the minors. 
The Mariners also received second baseman Mike Watters, who hit .285 in Class AAA. 
Brock, who didn't attain the numbers the Dodgers ex­pected, has hit 71 home runs in parts of five seasons with the Dodgers, but has had trouble making contact. 

. 
The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 12 
Women's IH basketball begins with Farley edging B.P. 
By SHEILA HOROX Sports Writer 
The 1986-87 women's inter­hall basketball season began in dramatic fashion this past Sun­day with Farley A edging Breen-Phillips A, 51-50. 
Good teams always find a way to win and no other team typified that notion more so than Farley. Although trailing throughout most of the game (Farley managed to take the lead on only four occassions), it seized a lead when it counted most--at the buzzer. 
Breen-Phillips jumped out to a quick 7-0 lead until an Ann Marie Reilly basket sparked a Farley rally that cut the deficit to 7-6. Farley took the lead 16­15, but Breen-Phillips reasserted its inside game to resume command. 
With the inside scoring of Ann Curoe and Cynthia Guck-
Akers 
continued from page 16 
want players that way; I want coaches around me that way. I want everyone to know what to expect.'' 
Highly regarded freshman quarterback Jeff George, recruited for Burtnett's passing-oriented offense, has said any decision to remain at Purdue would depend on the new coach. Asked about that, Akers said, "I think that's nat­ural when you have a situation like you have here. I'm sure I would have suggested to him to keep an open mind. 
"I hope he is satisfied here. 
I hope nothing is changed. He 
has the potential to be a great 
player. I'd like (to build) an of­
fense around him," Akers said 
of George. 
He called the Purdue coach­ien, and the outside shooting of Carolyn Burke, B.P. surged to a 23-19 halftime advantage. 

Farley, however, made several key adjustments. Marilu Almeida, who led all scorers with 19 points, was moved from guard to forward in the second quarter. The scenario then went as follows; Almedia grabbed an offensive rebound, was fouled on the follow-up and went to the foul line. Mter missing her first free-throw attempt, Almeida made 11 straight. 
B.P. coach Jeff Peters conceded that the game was decided at the foul line. 
"Foul shots definitely made the difference in the game," said Peters. "We missed a few one-and-one's late in the second half." 
Still trailing by a point, Far­ley opened the fourth quarter with a trap defense that 
ing job "a great challenge. I felt I'd like to take it and meet if if we can. You always have something to prove. The day you don't feel that, you'd better get out of coaching.'' 
Akers, 48, signed a five-year contract with a starting base salary of $100,000, about $10,000 more than Burtnett received. 
Akers, who was fired two weeks ago after the Longhorns finished 5-6, their worst mark in 30 years, said the past season "was not one of my favorites. That's only the second time I've been involved in a losing season. But that's history. That's a chapter in my life I'm wiling to close.'' 
He is the 31st head coach at Purdue. 
"I'm not here to examine what they did in the past," Akers said. "It makes all the. difference what we do from this day forward.'' 
resulted in several turnovers by Breen-Phillips. Farley breifly led 37-36 but B.P.'s Vicki Buth and Curoe com­bined to put their team up, 48­41, with three minutes left. 
In an attempt to pressure the ball, Farley abandoned its 2-3 zone for a man-to-man defense. Farley then made the most of every scoring opportunity, relying on Almeida and point guard Mary Beth Borkowski (18 points). 
Finding themselves down 49­48, B.P. called a time out with 40 seconds remaining. Follow­ing this break, Guckien's jumpshot with 20 seconds left put B.P. back in the lead. 
"I probably should have told my team to hold the ball a little longer," said Peters "We shot with 20 seconds left and that gave Farley a chance to score.'' 
Boilermakers went 1-8 in 1942. 
Purdue had only one winning season under Burtnett -1984 ­when the Boilermakers were 7­5 with a Peach Bowl loss to Vir­ginia, and Burtnett was named Big Ten Conference coach of the year. 
Akers coached the past 10 years at Texas, where his teams compiled an 86-31-2 record and appeared in nine straight bowl games before this past season. Former Texas Tech Coach David McWilliams was hired last Friday as Akers' successor. 
Akers played defensive back, quarterback and placekicker at the University of Arkansas from 1957-59. He coached high school football in Texas before joining the Longhorns' staff in 1966 as an assistant to Darrell Royal. 
Burtnett compiled a 21-34-1 record in five years. 
Farley did exactly that. Borkowski got the ball into the hands of Kertin White, who sank a 14-foot jumpshot with eight seconds remaining to give Farley the win. 
With the victory Farley takes the early lead in the women's race. There may not be much of a race after Christmas break, however, if Farley con­tinues to pull out the big wins. "There's no reason to com­plain," said one Farley coach, "when you're coaching a team that always finds a way to win." 
The season has just begun, however, and Farley will have nine other teams fighting it for the chance to go the playoffs in February. The top four teams at the end of the season, as de­termined by record, will ad­vance into the playoff tourna­ment. 
Several other teams also began their seasons on Sunday, among the more notable being defending champion Lewis A, which crushed Badin, 50-14. 
In other action, Lyons trounced Breen-Phillips, 85-12, Walsh defeated Farley B, 51-14, and P.E. registered a win via a Lewis B forfeit. 
The teams will resume play after the semester break. 


Tonight All Wine Coolers $1 
Tomorrow (Fri) Senior Club Cup Refills $. 75 
NO Friday Lunch 


:facu{ty Course T.va{uations Jlre :J-{ere I I 

• 
These are not the same as Teacher Course Evaluations. 

• 
Your chance to evaluate the ND Faculty and see the results ! 

• 
Results will be available to you prior to Advance Registration for Fall Classes. 

• 
You should have received your forms in your mailbox. 

• 
To return -place in your respective dorm box. 

• 
Your input is of ~m<e value !! 

• 
Off-Campus students: please pick up forms in your class office. 




-------------------------------------------------~--~~~----------------~---­
The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 13 
Irish swim teams get schedule break after winning weekend 
By PAT KEARNS impressive victory over But coach Welsh is not over­"The January schedule is al­progressively faster. Our main Sports Writer Mankato State last Friday and confident heading into most like beginning a second objective is to go as fast as we took the Irish Invitational on Christmas break. Both the season, and we expect to get can in the championship." The Notre Dame men's and Saturday. men's and women's teams can 
women's swimming teams are Roger Miro, Charles Neid­looking forward to their next hoffer, and Eric Bohdan keyed meets, but they'll have to wait the Irish wins with impressive a while. outings in both meets. The Both squads will be traveling men's squad is especially deep, to Philadelphia to practice and leading to first-place showings to compete in the meets, which in several events, including the will take place on Jan. 9 vs. 100-yard breaststroke, the 200­LaSalle and on Jan. 10 vs. Vil­yard backstroke and the 100­
lanova. yard freestyle. "We expect to have our work The women's swimming 
cut out for us in both meets," team also had quite a weekend, said Irish swimming coach breaking three school records Tim Welsh. "Both schools are in the process of beatingvery well-coached, and we ex­Mankato State on Friday and 
pect them to be very, very winning their Irish Invitational fast." on Saturday. 
Both the men's and women's Senior Monica Walker, fresh­teams are 2-1 and are coming man Kathy Quirk and junioroff particularly strong individ­Nancy O'Brien, among others, ual and team performances are swimming quite well, last weekend. leading the Irish to victory in 
The men's team scored an their events. 
ATTENTION ALL JUNIORS:
t --------l 
t l
Ifyour parents DID NOT receive JPW finformation over Thanksgiving Break, J please leave your name, home address, fcampus address and campus phone number l at the Student Activities Office by Thurs, fDec. 11 at 4:30p.m. 
tIf we do not get your name and address, your parents will not receive the proper information. 
count on hard practices, begin­ning December 28 in Philadel­phia, in order to stay in shape for their upcoming meets. 
"The team is in very good shape now," said Welsh. "I think both teams are stronger, faster, and more capable than last week, but we need to main­tain a good level of conditioning over the exam and Christmas period." 
Both teams are looking at the championships as their final and most important goal, and coach Welsh expects them to improve steadily until the team can bring forth its best effort at that time. 
"The progression of im­provement for both teams has 
Parkside 
continuedfrom page 16 
wrestled with a lot of confi­
dence," said McCann. 
The big decisions made the difference in the meet, in which both teams won four matches. The two technical falls and one major decision by the Irish ac­1 counted for the four-point vic­
tory margin. 
At the beginning of the meet, 
it looked as if the Rangers 
might pull out a win on the road 
over the Irish. Freshman 118­
pounder Andy Radenbaugh 
struggled before winning the 
opening match, 6-4. 
Wisconsin-Parkside took its match when Ranger freshman Dennis DuChene scored an 11-2 major decision over 126-pound senior Greg Fleming. The win made the team score 4-3 in fa­vor of the Rangers. 

That's when Durso, Boyd, and Wisniewski went to work. Durso and Boyd's technical falls gave Notre Dame a 15-4 lead, and Wisniewski's major decision raised the score to 19­4. 
Injuries had much to do with the results of the late matches. The loss of junior Dan Carrigan for the season, and maybe longer, with a knee injury forced freshman Michael Sheets into his first collegiate match. Other injuries in the heavyweight divisions caused Sheets and seniors Tom Ryan and Dave Helmer to fight out of their weight classes. 
"Mike Sheets did a respec­table job, but he was out of his weight class and he just found out the day before that he'd be wrestling," said McCann. "Ryan actually weighs 158 and he wrestled at 177, and Helmer weighs 177 and he went at 190. You hope for the best, but it's awfully difficult, you just hope for the best kids to come through. 
"We've got to get big efforts from our weaker people, and we've got to get some kids back 
from injuries." 

:-: ..
r;. .... 
~ 
·.~~ 
·~ 
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE Cordially Invites You To 
"A Feast of Christmas" 
Thursday December 11, 1986 in North Dining Hall 
please join us for this meal filled with Holiday Specialties and featuring a 

Madrigal Procession of the Comestibles 
To accomodate this event. MEALCARDS will be d.esignatedfor One Dining Hall Onlyfor Dinner Wednesday, December 1Oth, and Thursday. December 11th. according to your residence hall. 
North Dining Hall 
Breen Phillips Farley Flanner Grace 
Keenan Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Stanford 
Poached Sole 
Cabinet Pudding Long Grain & Wild Rice Asparagus Spears & Glazed Carrots 
Salad Bar of Select Toppings 
DESSERTS Peppermint Ice Cream with Warmed Chocolate Sauce Plum Pudding Yule Logs Fresh Fruit Bowl 
South Dining Hall 
Alumni Badin Carroll Cavanaugh Dillon Fisher St. Edward's Sorin Walsh Holy Cross 
Howard 
Lewis 
Lyons 
Morrissey 
Pangborn 
Zahm 
Off Campus meal plan 

--~-------------------------­
The Observer Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 14 
Ditkanames Tomczak starting QB 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. Chicago Bears Coach Mike Ditka said Wednesday that Mike Tomczak will start at quarterback Monday Night against the Detroit Lions in the Pontiac Silverdome. 
Ditka said Doug Flutie also will see considerable action in the game as the Bears, 12-2, hope to nail down home-field advantage for their first playoff game, either Saturday, Jan. 3, or Sunday, Jan. 4th. 
"I feel like I've got three good quarterbacks. The situa­tion right now is I'm going with the younger two," said Ditka, who also has veteran Steve Ful­ler as backup to Tomczak and Flu tie. 
"I'm not saying I wouldn't play Steve but I just want to find out right where we are so we'll be okay when that first weekend in January rolls around," Ditka said in a tele­phone interview with Detroit sportswriters and sportscasters. 

Video cameras catch cheaters at marathon 
Associated Press "I ran into him a couple of 
days before the race and he 
said he had just done the Iron­
NEW YORK -The 24 people man Triathlon and was confi­who took shortcuts in last dent of breaking 2:30 in New month's New York City marat­York," Glover said. "I said, 'no hon probably didn't think about way.' He said, 'Oh, yeah.' That the video cameras recording definitely registered.'' the race. The triathlon includes a 100­
They were caught, and offi­mile bike ride, a two-mile swim 
cials from the three biggest and a marathon. 
marathons said Wednesday When Glover heard Bell won 
that cameras and vigilance are the Master Division, he asked 
increasingly needed to combat marathon officials to check 
the cheaters. their videotapes, which were 
It was the disqualification of recorded by cameras along the Hoosier John Bell, winner of the route. Bell and the others Master Division for runners hadn't passed some check­over 40, that led New York race points, and race director Fred officials to review their Lebow announced the dis­videotaP.e from the race and qualifications Tuesday. disqualify 23 other runners. Of­"Bell probably did pretty ficials estimate that the 44-much what Rosie Ruiz did," year-old Bell, of Marion, Ind., Lebow said. "We don't know ­took a 10-mile shortcut for his subway or car, or he may have time of 2:25:15. run all the way into Manhattan 
Three of the 24 runners were and cut across 59th street.'' 
among the top 100 finishers. Ruiz was the apparent win­
Bell was the 69th runner to ner of the women's division of 
cross the finish line out of 19,689 the 1980 Boston Marathon but 
people who finished the 26.2-was disqualified for cheating. 
mile race on Nov. 2. It was also determined that 
The Master Division winner Ruiz had taken the subway in 
gets $3,000 and a trophy. The the 1979 New York City race. 
check was never issued, and The cameras, which have 
marathon officials want the been used in New York since 
trophy back. 1980, "were inspired by Rosie 
Bell, the owner and president Ruiz," said Lebow. 

Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC ski team will have tryouts for the team on Tuesday, Jan. 13 at Swiss Valley. Meet at the main circle at noon, with a car if possible. Cost is $20. Everyone must turn in proof of insurance and sign eligibility forms before Dec. 18. Also, turtleneck money is due this week. For more information contact Kathy Skendzel at 4029. -The Observer 
Joe Krivak, an assistant coach at the University of Maryland, was named Wednesday to head the university's football program. -Associated Press 
The ND rowing club's men's varsity and novice teams will have practice today at 5 p.m. on the ACC concourse. 
-The Observer 
shot beat the St. Ed'sHoly Cross goalie. 

Hockey 
Cavanaugh coach Mike Jen­nings was happy with his

continuedfrom page 16 
team's performance. "We had no outstanding ac­score. Trailing 1-0, Paul Ray hievers out there tonight, but it evened things up when his wrist was a team effort," he said.

shot from a tough angle found In other opening action, Car­a home in the net. After falling roll-Keenan (1-0) skated pastbehind again in the second­St. Ed's!Holy Cross by a scorehalf, Cavanaughfloward's of 4-1. CavanaughflowardClay Hamlin tied it up when he defeated Flanner (0-1), 3-0, andtook a Jim Meija pass, skated Sorin (0-2) was shell-shockeddown the ice and he sent his twice as they suffered embar­wrist shot into the upper corner rasing losses to Morrissey(l-0) of the goal. 
9-1, and to Fisher(2-0) 9-0. Fis­With less than a couple of her in its first game squeaked minutes to play, Chris Sullivan by Stanford to win 4-3. In thegot the game winner. After week's lone tie, Pangborn(0-0­taking a rink-long pass off a 1) and Alumni held each other face-off, he was able to out­scoreless.

skate the defense and his 

PRICES GOOD THRU 
Dec. 13th, 1986 
., whil• ~•anlllll 1 t..t 
e~O.Cllnlc 
ClftS.II 
A••PW. 

WE DON'T MONKEY AROUND TO GIVE YOU SERVICE, SELECTION AND THE BEST VALUES IN TOWN 
SPECIALS GOOD AT ALL 10 OF OUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS 
12!! 
of Bell Fibers, was not return­ing calls from reporters, said Bettie Hurt, a secretary at the company. 
"It appears that the people who cheat most are the masters runners," said Bob Bright, executive director of the America's Marathon­Chicago. "The people over 40 and 50 are very competitive, it's a dog-eat-dog area. You find a lot of these people get into running and it becomes an obsession.'' 
It was Bob Glover, a fitness coach and author of "The Run­ner's Handbook," who originally raised questions about Bell's time. He had been giving Bell trainin~ advice for 
NEED GIFT IDEAS 
rTHE SNIT!; MUSEUM SHOP 
HAS THE ANSWER 
Engagement Calendars 
Pottery T-Shirts Christmas cards 
Open Mon.-Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 1 :00-4:00 

seven years, he said. ~~~~~~lm!m!!ml!!'ldl 

']I['~4tJil.cll~--------------------------------------------------------•T•h•u•rs.d•a•y•,D•e•c•e•m•b•er
..ll•,•l9•8•6•-•p•ag•e--15 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 
"Vol Farmer Dovel Let's go, let's go, let's go! ... You geHin' up with us chickens or not?" 
SAB Presents: Miracle on 34th Street ..........<:1 ...<;1 ...<:I....<:I.,.,<;I...Q"CI7<;1".......,.,Q....<;I....Q ....<:I....'Iia"...Q ....<:l...Q' Tonite! A Chorus Line7,9,11 Friday and Saturday Nite 7, 9:15, 11:30 EG Auditorium Absolutely no food or drink aUowed $1.50  


{/fl.,,
CPI/5, 
rr'5 Jf/5T
MK5. GKI/Not./1 SIIYS 

HCHOI((fS... MAYI 1 
YOV'KG A M/S/C/1/N... 
!57HAT~OF 
.4 SlfOI?T 
f(£f{(flfN,
YOVK t.mz.t 
5af65 meK& r 
ACTr/1/ttY... 
I
" 

Beer Nuts 
£V£R READ A COMIC. 
SIRIf AND J'UST THINK : -uuH"?? t..I~LL, HER.f'S A 
STIUP THAT I PIW"'JSfD 
TO DO FtJR. "''Y 3 8/i~T FR.JENDS 8.4<./C IN c.ALIF­Ofi.NIA, AND IT" PR.OBABI.Y J.ltJN1 MAKE ANt SENSE' 
Ar Al.L TO  I"OV.  
I  NOT"61  IN THF  
c.AW TH/o( I(  
l!D/iS  MAK~  
SliNS., nlU'D  
IIT7J'R, Sli1i A  
/"'S'(CHIAT7t/'T­ 
~AS  

Campus 
7:00p.m.: St. Mary's College Swimming and Diving SMC, Albion, and Valparaiso, Rockne Pool 7:30p.m: Basketball ND vs. Eastern Mic­higan, ACC 
7:30 p.m.: The Alice Tully Endowment for the Fine Arts Lecture "Churches of Por­tugal," by Chester Brummel, photog­rapher, O'Shaughnessy Hall East Galleries, Snite Museum of Art 10:00-11:00 p.m.: Talkshow, University President Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., "Campus Perspectives," WVFI­AM 640, Host Lynne Strand 
Weekly Mass Schedule 
Sunday Main Church ....................................................... 5:00 pm (Saturday Vigil) .................................................................................................. 9:00a.m. ................................................................................................. 10:30 a.m. ................................................................................................. 12:15 p.m. 
Crypt ......................................................................................... 6:00 a.m. .................................................................................................. 7:15a.m. .................................................................................................. 8:15a.m. .................................................................................................. 9:30a.m. ................................................................................................. 10:45 a.m. ................................................................................................. 12:15 p.m. 
Weekday Mass Main Church ........................................................... 11:30 a.m. (Mon.-Sat.) ................................................................................ 5:15 p.m. (Mon.-Fri.) 
Crypt ...................................................................... 6:30 a.m. (Mon.-Sat.) ................................................................................7: 15 p.m. (Mon.-Fri.) .............................................................................. 12:10 p.m. (Mon.-Fri.) ................................................................................5:30p.m. (Mon.-Fri.) 
UON/11 

50/'t1€THIN& 10 MJW, 566.. 5t.IP IN17J 1H6 lfH!AKP IN HYrtfN5 Nt3XT CONTW... 5VN!li1Y/ \ 
Mark Williams 
:10(: rue tJNt.r ts-lfi'M. 
OLJ) I I<NtJI.IJ UITU GREY HAIR.. G.tA/'1/mN OF FlrHFD 
1'108STER.. GtJII>O •S<IfOOI.JE' N&tJIN 
,.1/rrD~iTli. "I. W 56"SN 
P.IC.I< : 1.00/CS U/Ci" (J)I)SfN

BR.Al>: ACTS Lti(E HE's 
"1r" oN TH/i ..ADAMS

ON S/'EEP. VJ:.eY INEXI'EII­
SIVE" TO Tltl(/i TO PltR.nE$ 
FAHILY •• DESCR./8£1) BY 
S/NC,J; II€ t>ltSSES ()(.)/ 
SOME AS L.W/N6 IN HIS 
AFTE.(. Z BEE~S.. 
Os.JN PRJ T. BORN/ii 
.SftYIN6 • 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Feast of Christmas 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Cutlet and Gravy Pork Chow Mein Swedish Pancakes Deli Bar 
8ETTER. " 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Genesis name 5 Deflect 9 Clotho, 
Lachesis 
and Atropos 14-Lisa 15-about 16 Writer Jong 17 Algerian port 18 Gam or 
Tushingham 19 Fact 20 Hasty dab 23 Property 24 Scorch 25 Cut off 27 Steams 32 Scent 36 American 

Beauty, e.g. 39 Singer Adams 40 Make quick 
work 43 Ancient 

Gr. city 44 Advantage 45 Utah mountain 
range 46 Melt down 48 Conflict 9 Hat 50 Majority 10 Saroyan hero 53 Most tender 11 Small monkey 58 Brief outline 12 Old Fr. coins 63 Eagle's nest 13 Ditto 64 Soft cheese 21 Reference 65 Scorch work 66 Bet 22 Talks wildly 67 Sports figures 26 Urge 68 Leader for 28 Persian fairy 
g~aph or phone 29 Aesir ruler 69 Br. carbines 30 Breach 70 Summer drinks 31 -precedent 71 Ye -Shoppe 32 Antiquing 
material 

DOWN 33 Upset 1 Soap plant 34 Kiln 2 Becker of 35 Anthropologist 
tennis Margaret 3 Make into law 37 Assn. 4 Sri-38 Olla podrida 51 Israeli 56 Scorch 5 East Indies 41 Fish-eating native 57 A crowd? 

island bird 52 Pooped 58 Marbles 6 Arthurian 42 Impresario 54 Verso's 59 Warm up 
lady Sol opposite 60 Exhort 7 "-a Stranger" 47 Glowing coals 55 Merman of 61 Bearing 8 Hang loosely 49 Rate the stage 62 Biography 

Thursday, December 11, 1986-page 16
Seorts 
E. Michigan next test for 2-2 Irish tonight 
By RICK RIETBROCK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's basketball team has gotten back to even and·now looks to move another step ahead in tonight's game against Eastern Michigan. The 2-2 Irish will be trying for their third straight victory against the 3-3 Hurons. 
The Irish played three games last week, playing well in a loss to Indiana and a win against Brigham Young, while taking on a lackluster look in a 60-56 squeaker over Cornell. 

Sean Conner 
Notre Dame head coach Dig­ger Phelps indicated that he doesn't want another flat per­formanctJ, like the one the Irish put together against Cornell, against the underdog Hurons. 
"This is a game where we need to concentrate early and come out and take control," he says. "If we let them come in and play well early the way Cornell did last week, it could be a long night for us. We've got to play our game and do the things we want to do." 
Leading the way for Ben Braun's squad will be 6-4 senior forward Mike McCaskill and 6­8 junior center Grant Long. McCaskill, one of the team's co­captains, averages 13.2 points and 7.4 rebounds to lead the Hurons in both categories, while Long chips in 12 points and 7.2 rebounds per contest. 
Completing the frontline is 6­6 junior Chuck King, who sports a 9.4 scoring average. 
The backcourt features the other co-captain, 6-5 senior Lewis Scott (11.6 pts., 3.2 rebs.) and 5-11 sophomore junior­college transfer Rick Hardesty who contributes 8.2 points per game and leads the team with 22 assists. Brad Soucie, a 6-5 freshman, provides some scoring punch from the bench with a 10.2 average. 
In quelling the Huron upset bid, the Irish will most likely return to the smaller of their starting lineups. That means 6­7 sophomore Sean Conner returns to the starting five, and the timing appears to be per­fect. Conner has hit nine of his last ten shots from the field in the last two contests. 
Mark Stevenson will start at the other forward spot and carries a 9.3 average. Gary Voce gets the nod in the pivot averaging 1.5 points and 2.8 rebounds. 
The strength of the squad has been in the backcourt and 
see LINEUP, page 11 


Akers agrees to coach at Purdue 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Former Texas football coach Fred Akers, hired at Purdue on Wednesday, said he expected to assemble a staff within a week and immediately begin recruiting "the very best ath­letes possible." 
Akers was hired five weeks after Leon Burtnett resigned under pressure amid the Boilermakers' worst record in 44 years. 
"I've known Leon for some time, and he did discuss some of the strengths and weaknes­ses," Akers said at an after­noon news conference at Mackey Arena. "We're always looking for skilled people, but until we can get a staff settled, I'm not going to say this is our No. 1, No. 2, No.3 priority." 
Akers said he might bring some of his former staff from Texas. 
He said he met with a group of about 25 Purdue players before taking the job and that he would meet again with the players to "assure them they're going to have a staff ready to roll up its sleeves and work with them. 
"I want them to know we are in the process of assembling what I hope will be a great staff," Akers said. 
Akers described himself as "demanding, committed, a great competitor ... yet fair. I 
see AKERS, page 12 


The Observer/ Greg Kohs 
Despite getting off to a slow start, the Irish for the first time since the two teams started wrestling team defeated Wisconsin-Parkside facing each other. 
Wrestling downs Wis_.-Parkside 
By STEVE MEGARGEE Sports Writer 

After two-plus weeks of competing in tour­naments against some of the top schools in the country, three Notre Dame wrestlers last night showed the home folks just what they'd learned while they were away. 
Notre Dame coach Fran McCann was more than grateful to see the exhibitions by Jerry Durso, Pat Boyd, and Ron Wisniewski, as they keyed the Irish win over Wisconsin­Parkside, 25-21. 
"We had to get those (decisions) to win. We had so many adjustments to make that we needed to get the big decisions from our strong people," said McCann. 
Durso, Boyd, and Wisniewski all responded to the challenge. Durso and Boyd got con­secutive technical falls, with respective scores of 20-5 and 24-9. Wisniewski followed with a 14-4 win for a major decision. 
McCann said that their experiences against top-ranked teams in the Las Vegas Invitational and St. Louis Open helped the three wrestlers prepare for Wisconsin­Parkside. 
"That kind of competition really helps our better kids, and you could tell tonight they 
see PARKSIDE, page 13 
IH hockey season starts with Alumni win, tie 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports Writer 
Inter hall hockey began its in­itial week of play with a partial slate of games. As expected, there were some blowouts which came at the expense of Sorin. But several nail-biters produced two one-goal deci­sions and a tie. 
This year season's edition of interhall hockey is expected to have more of the latter, which should prove to be very enter­taining. 
On Tuesday night, the night's lone game pitted Alumni and Stanford. Alumni 0-0), a final four participant last year, was too much for outmanned Stan­ford (0-2). Alumni had several good scoring opportunities in the first-half but could not find the net until Steve Vairo picked up a loose puck inside the blue line. With his back to the goal, he turned and shot, surprising the Stanford goalie as the puck went past him. 
While there was no further scoring in the half, Stanford blew several golden opportuni­ties as they twice wasted two­man advantages. 
Goalie Matt Roy, who accor­ding to Alumni coach Brian Aquadro played tough in the net, came up big as he thwarted Stanford's power play time and again. 
After Stanford's Jim Roll tied the match on a three-on-one break, Alumni put it all to­gether in the second half. Vairo struck again as he picked up a loose puck in Stanford's end and fired it into the short side of the goal. Minutes later after an Alumni penalty, Nick Penna scored short-handed when he beat a defender one-on-one, faked the goalie to his left and went around him right for the score. 
With a 3-1lead, Alumni con­tinued its attack and scored number four when a scramble in front of the Stanford goal resulted in a goal by Alumni's Scott Kahney. The final goal was beautifully set up as Bill Harrington took a nice feed from a teammate racing into the slot area, and flipped it into the upper left corner. 
"We hustled well after the puck, and I thought all the lines played well," said Aquadro, who was quite pleased with the effort given. 
On Monday night, CavanaugMioward (2-0) twice had to come from a goal down to beat a tough St. Ed'&Holy Cross (0-2) squad by a 3-2 
see HOCKEY, page 14 








