
Monkees -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 49 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Tie-breaking vote at Senate meeting favors divestment 
By DAVID T. LEE 
News Staff 
In a two-hour meeting last night, the Student Senate voted 8-7 in favor of a resolution to divest from companies in South Africa by a specific date unless its government "makes signif­icant progress to dismantle its system of apartheid." 
Student Body President Mike Switek cast the deciding vote in favor of divestment to break a 7-7 tie. 
Sponsored by Senator John Gardiner, the resolution "calls for immediate divestment from these firms should the sit­uation deteriorate further." 
The discussion allowed both sides to present their positions for 10 minutes each before giving the Senate a chance to ask questions. 
Father Oliver Williams, a member on the Board of Trus­tees Ad Hoc Committee on South African Investments, spoke at the meeting to defend the administration's present policy. 
"My rationale is that finally what is going to happen is that blacks are finally going to get the government to negotiate," said Williams. "The reason we see the problem coming to a head is that blacks are getting a taste of power." 
Two Hare Krishnas arrested at stadium 
By TRIPP BALTZ News Editor 
Two members of a group identified with the Hare Krishna sect were arrested for selling game souvenirs outside Notre Dame Stadium Saturday, accor­ding to Notre Dame Security Director Rex Rakow. 
Alan White, 32, of Cleveland, Ohio, and Joram Cadorna, of Detroit, Mich., are reportedly members of a group from Moundsville, W.Va., who associate them­selves with Hare Krishnas, Rakow said. Although no 
age  was  reported  for  
Cadorna, Rakow  said  "he  
looked  to  be  in  his  late  
twenties."  

A third man was arrested who Rakow said was an "in­dependent guy.'' Rakow said Richard Barsanti, 47, of Western Springs, Ill., was "trying to make a buck off of Notre Dame." 
All three were charged with trespass. Rakow said the two sect 

Williams said companies Notre Dame has invested in "are in fact working to break down apartheid in society'' by giving them economic power through the organization of trade unions. He wanted com­panies to remain in order to "continue that economic power, that feeling of solidarity" among blacks. 
At a parish in Soweto, Wil­liams said he "found blacks to be evenly divided on the issue of sanctions." 
He said Notre Dame has divested from companies that violated the Sullivan Prin­ciples, which are the governing set of rules designed to ensure that companies work to oppose apartheid, citing divestment from a particular company this past summer. 
Margarita Rose, chairman of the Anti-Apartheid Network on campus, criticized Notre Dame's policy opposing divest­ment. 
"Given recent pullouts (of 

U.S. companies), the pace of change was just not quick enough . . . Their presence there was not helping to dis­mantle apartheid," she said. 
Rose cited the recent secur­ity measures enacted by South African State President P.W. 
see DIVEST, page 4 

members showed identifica­tion saying they were mem­bers of the group. He said group members are present at "every game" with iden­tification showing they are from ISSK or ISKON. Secur­ity has confirmed that these acronyms are associated with the Hare Krishna sect, according to Rakow. 
The two sect members, Rakow said, were selling items with Notre Dame in­signia on them without au­thorization. "They sell panties that say things like 'I'm behind the Irish' and 'I'm an Irish fanny'," Rakow said. The two also sold stickers, painters' hats and round, gold-colored pins. 
Rakow said Barsanti was selling similar items. "We have a long history of dealing with him," he said. According to Rakow, Bar­santi has also sold T -shirts at rock concerts at the ACC. Although Barsanti has been 
see KRISHNAS, page 4 
·'·~; 
AP pboto

A Blow-off 
Wade Dollens of Bismarck, North Dakota, steers a snow blowerthough a drift outside a bowling alley after 18 inches of snow buried the town. 

SMC Alcohol Education Council warns of bad effects of drinking 
By HEATHER MILLER 
Staff Reporter 
The Alcohol Education Coun­cil at Saint Mary's warned stu­dents of the physiological ef­fects of alcohol last night at the first of three lectures this week in LeMans Hall. 
Mary Beth O'Connor, a stu­dent member of the Council, said that the primary concerns of the Council are to promote alcohol education, provide sup­port groups for those who have experienced problems with drinking, and to emphasize is­sues of responsible drinking. The Council is comprised of 13 Saint Mary's students, staff, and other interested people. 
The first part of the lecture, presented by SMC student council member Elisa Cullina, coQcerned a discussion of fac­tors influencing the rate of al­cohol absorption, effects of al­cobol on the body, long and short term hazards of alcohol use, and the difference between the effects of alcohol on women and men. 
Following Cullina's discus­sion, SMC student Council members Ludy Kaehler and Heidi Cerneka highlighted tips to be followed for responsible drinking, including preparing for the evening out, sobering up in a drinking environment, and knowing what to do with a drunk friend. 
"We are not telling people not to drink. We just want people to know there are precautions to take in order to drink respon­sibly," said Kaehler. 
She presented tips to follow before drinking such as, eating a well-balanced meal with plenty of starchy foods. Accor­ding to Kaehler, people should bring money for a cab or phone call for a ride horne. Kaehler added that designated drivers are essential in preparing for evenings involving drinking and driving. 
Kaehler also suggested stu­dents make use of the "Buzz Bus", a service that provides transportation to students on Thursdays, Fridays, and Satur­days, returning them back to campus from the bars. 
Kaehler said people should know their limits by revealing helpful hints such as know what you are drinking by watching your drink being made and space your drink intake by the hour. Kaehler addressed the problem of dealing with drunk friends by advising people to stay with them and to get them home safely. 
According to Heidi Cerneka, another SMC Council member, "The main issue is a person's health." 

ND football players arrested, not charged 
By MARK PANKOWSKI News Editor 
Four Notre Dame football players were arrested but not charged in a Nov. 1 fight at a fraternity in Champaign, Ill., the Chicago Sun-Times re­ported Sunday. 
The article listed the players, all freshmen linemen, as guard Ted Healy, tackle Jason Cegielski, guard Jeff Pearson, and defensive lineman John Zaleski. 
The four did not dress for Sat­urday's SMU game, the Sun­Times reported. 
Healy, Cegielski and Pearson also did not dress for the Navy game after a photograph of them holding beer cans ap­peared in The Observer, the ar­ticle said. 
"They didn't do a bad thing," the Sun-Times quoted head coach Lou Holtz as saying. "They just made a bad deci­sion." 
Holtz, who declined further comment, apparently was speaking about the photograph and not the alleged fighting in­cident. 
Contacted by The Observer Monday, Associate Sports In­formation Director John Heis­ler declined comment about the article. 
"They're all matters within the team," said Heisler. "Lou Holtz does not make an an­nouncement on how he handles those things." 
see FOOTBALL, page 4 


The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 2 


In Brief 

Two juveniles were apprehended Saturday morning by Notre Dame Security in connection with auto burglaries in Green Field, according to Rex Rakow, Director of Se­curity. The youths, aged 15 and 16, were caught at approx­imately 2:05a.m. after trying to remove tapes from a car, Rakow said. The two were apprehended in an area in which five cars had been burglarized. The burglaries are still under investigation, Rakow said. Rakow said state law prohibits him from releasing the names of juveniles. 
-The Observer. 


Of Interest 
In honor of Veteran's Day, an annual worldwide simul­taneous flag raising will take place at noon today with the raising of the American flay on South Quad. Each year, the event is timed to coincide with the President's placing of a wreath on the tomb of the Unknown Soldier. At 4 p.m., a retreat ceremony of contingents from all Notre Dame ROTC programs will take place at South Quad's flag pole. 
-The Observer 

"Carnival of Careers" will be held from 3 to 6 today in Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility. This free event is sponsored by the College's Career Counseling Department. 
-The Observer 

The Notre Dame Financial Institution Series will be featuring speaker John Maginn today at 4:30p.m. in the Hayes-Healy auditorium. Maginn is the executive vice president and treasurer of the Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company. The event is sponsored by Notre Dame's Finance Club. -The Observer 
A tour of the Radiation Laboratory will be held tonight at 6:30, with those interested meeting in 118 Nieuwland. The tour is sponsored by the American Chemical Society­Student Affiliates. -The Observer 
A Charity Ball meeting for anyone interested in working will be held Wednesday night at 7 in LaFortune's ISO Lounge. Everyone interested is welcome. -The Observer 
Tutors for the Center for Basic Learning Skills are still needed. Tutors work one day a week with an adult learning to read, gaining basic skills, or earning aGED. Transpor­tation is provided, with a van leaving at 1: 15 p.m. and returning at 3:15p.m. -The Observer 


Learning to laugh at yourselfis key to human sanity 
Ever notice how we sometimes don't see 
something right in front of our noses? If we 
become preoccupied by our thoughts, we can 
easily become farsighted in regard to things we 
intended to look at. 
Human observation (or the lack thereof) can 
be a comical thing to watch. The best places to 
get a look at this kind of comedy are those 
frequented by the actors -people. Shopping 
malls are particularly good. Take, for example, 
the average shopper entering the mall. Ever 
see someone approach the door and attempt to 
open it, only to find it won't budge? After pulling 
with all his might, he discovers a sign on the 
door: PUSH. 
We have a knack of doing things the hard way, simply because we don't see an alterna­tive. It's pretty silly if we stop to think about it. Why do we fail to see certain objects? What makes us walk right past someone we intended to talk to? Perhaps we can answer these ques­tions by taking a closer look at how we use our minds. 
The human mind has an incredible capacity for the retention of information. Well, some­times it does. How many times have we forgot­ten to do something of which we were reminded numerous times? The old trick of tying a string around one's finger fails if the significance of the string is forgotten. Sounds sort of strange to use a memory device to remember someth­ing contingent upon remembering something else, doesn't it? 
Let's face it, we all have our idiosyncrasies. But why do our minds wander, causing us to forget a message heard only five minutes ago or stare blankly at nothing in particular? I like to say it's the human mind's way of coasting after an intense period of use. Perhaps it's just one way our computer-like thinking system gets "rebooted." Then again it could be just plain boredom which causes us to "veg out." 
One hypothesis I might offer as an explana­tion of this complacency, otherwise termed the human "space cadet" syndrome, is the funda­mental need for us to laugh at ourselves. Why do we do the things we do? If we look stupid doing them, perhaps there is a purpose in it. I think it all boils down to the need for laughter. Laughter is the music of the soul (an old prov-erb). When we laugh at ourselves, our life is made a little easier. 

Maybe we've become too serious about what we do in the world. All work and no play ...(another old proverb) ...makes Jack a dull boy. We can make mistakes, but we can also learn from them. Let us remember then that we are only human. Well, what does that mean? The Webster's II Dictionary, touted as "today's most up-to-date dictionary," defines the word as "having or manifesting human qualities or form." One quality which we all share is the ability to make choices. We can choose to do something or elect not to. Either way we make a choice. 
We must accept the fact that we're all in the same boat. It may not be a very consoling thought when the paperwork piles up and demands are high, but if we can remove our­selves from our work long enough to consider this point, we can breathe a little easier, at least. Everybody has a part to play in the grand scheme of the world. We must remember that we all count and to work efficiently, we must work together. 
The advice for today is to loosen up. The world is too tense too often. Stop. Think about how peaceful the world would be if everyone did this. Lastly, laugh a little. The world is too serious to do without it. 
Security is asking that all persons move their cars from C1 and Faculty North parking lots, commonly referred to as "Stadium Yard" by early Wednesday night. Cars must be moved to prepare for the installation of lights for Sat­urday's Penn State game. -The Observer 
Arts and Letters Business Society will hold an organi­zational meeting tonight at 7 in 222 Hayes-Healy. Raffle will be discussed. -The Observer 
Weather 
Hello, Mr. Frost. Are you lost? Oh, you're here to stay? Forever? What's in your suitcase? Flurries, mid-30s. Low 20s for tonight, huh? Who's your companion? Oh, hello, Mr. Cold Miser. What's new? 30s and clear for tomorrow, you say? Is that a fact, 

Jack? Burr. -Associated Press 


Deaign EditOT ................... Alice Kroeger Accent Copy Editor ....... Gertie Wimmer Deaign Assistant ........ Mike 'Moj' Mojica Accent Layout ...................... Carey Gels Type•etters ............. Becky Gunderrnann Typists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy New• Editor ................. Ann Kaltenbach ND Day Editor ............... Alison Pivonka COP!/ EditOT ......................... Bud Luepke SMC Day Editor ...... Theresa Harrington Sparta Copy EditOT ......... Rick Rietbrock Ad Deaign ..................... Sharon Emmite Viewpoint COPII EditOT ... Gertie Wimmer Photographer ................... James Carroll Viewpoint Layout . . . . . . . ... .. . Heidi Traxler 
Tile Olllerver (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tile Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($2S per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. 
Tile OIMerver is a member of Tile Allodatecl Pnsa. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
THE DATAVUE 25 PORTABLE COMPUTER SYSTEM WILL LIGHTEN YOUR LOAD FOR ONLY $899. 
The new Datavue 25 portable computer makes going back to school easier than ever. Because now the powerful Datavue 25 is on sale to students for over 50% off*. Just $899 buys you a complete 14lb., IBM~ 
co_mpatible system with 768K, r·. _•.•·"''~~~lllut!l_••_.Ia••x~~r~] 
a full sized 80 x 25 line display, built~in Sl.Ji"' 1 floppy disk drive, serial, ROB, color composite and printer port. Datavue 25 comes ready to run packages like 1~2~ 3, WordStar, MultiMate, dBASE ll and ill, Flight Simulator, and many others. 
All this makes Datavue 25 a cinch for report writing, research organi~ zation, programming practice ... and relaxing after a tough day ofcTass. Lighten your load this fall. Pick up Datavue25 before school be­gins and save a bundle. 
Find out more about this pow~ erful, affordable portable com~ puter today. For a hands­on Datavue demostra~ tion, call our Datavue representative, larry Crews in Berrien Springs, 


The powerful, affordable portable.
Ml, (616) 471~1949 

The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 3 
SMC hosts Career Carnival today 
By MARGIE KERSTEN Saint Mary's Editor 
The third annual Carnival of Careers will take place today at Saint Mary's and it has "never been this well balanced," according to Jeff Roberts, coordinator of place­ment services and assistant director of counseling and career development for the College. 
Representatives from pro­fessional associations, busi­nesses, graduate schools, volunteer programs and government organizations will be on hand to talk with students about various career options. 
"The Carnival is the least threatening environment for figuring out what students want to do," Roberts said. The event will take place at Angela Athletic Facility from 3 to 6. 
According to Lenore Massa, one of the senior board's career development commissioners, there is "virtually something for every major," and the rep­resentatives are willing to talk. 
More than 450 invitations were delivered to representa­tives, Roberts said and 45 have accepted, as compared to 50 in­vitations accepted last year. "Last year there were more or­ganizations and less diversity, and this year there is more di­versity and more big names," he said. 
This year's Carnival includes representatives from the Chicago Tribune, Arthur An­derson & Co., Miles Laborato­ries, Mellon Bank, Hiiton Inn, Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern, IBM, and EF Hutton. In addition, five repre­sentatives from the Society for American Women Composers will be performing four musi­cal pieces written by women, Roberts added. 
Students should approach this day by "getting basic in­formation about different careers and organizations," Roberts said, adding, they should also talk to the repre­sentatives about what they do in their position and learn about their previous positions. He said students can also use the event to build professional ties which can lead to summer jobs, internships and per­manent employment. 
SMC Board hears student gripes 
By SHARON HEGG News Staff 
Gripe night grievances were brought before the Saint Mary's Board of Governance at the board's meeting last night. 
Betsy Burke, vice president of academic affairs, presented student complaints to Teresa Marcy, assistant to the vice president. 
Regarding excused ab­sences, "a student may be ex­cused from class for a wedding if she is an immediate family member or is in the wedding party" Marcy told Burke. 
However, "students will not be excused from class to inter­view" explained Burke. "She (Marcy) said this has come up an awful lot but she will not put through a change." 
Burke and Jeanne Heller, stu­dent body president, indicated change would have to come from student initiative. Patty Curran, senior class president, said this would be a good proj­ect for the senior class. 
Answering complaints about the grading system, Marcy ex­plained to Burke that the sys­tem works to the advantage of students and many graduate schools drop the minus when evaluating an application. This is also Notre Dame's grading policy so there is no problem 
sending grades back and forth On other items at last night's meeting, the Student Academic Council discussed the senior comprehensive. Many were up­set with the policy because there is no consistency within the departments and require­ments are not given far enough in advance, said Burke. Suggestions to improve senior comps include a gradual comprehensive program so that the emphasis is shifted away from one test senior year. As a basis for improvement, the departments should be re­quired to give a description of the comp, what is expected, and the rational for it. 
Board to determine Corby Tavern fate 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
The fate of Corby Tavern may be decided Wednesday morning, when the proposed renewal and transfer of the liquor license comes before the St. Joseph County Al­coholic Beverage Board. 
The prospective buyers of the Corby Tavern, Thomas and Robert Przybylinski, two brothers, received the variance to continue legal non-conforming use of the property. 
"The hearing Wednesday concerns the renewal of the present liquor license from CTI, Inc., which owned Corby's previously," said John Gourley, attorney for the Przybylinski brothers. 
"The Indiana ABC or­dered the license to be held in escrow. This means CTI, Inc. was ordered not to use the license for a two-year period beginning October 1985," he said. 
"The ABC ordered (CTI, Inc.) to sell within a two­year period to somebody else. What happened was the two brothers entered into a purchase agreement to buy the license together with the real estate, fixtures and equipment. 
"The license has to be renewed for the tavern tore­open. Itwas not renewed last February under the CTI, Inc. ownership," said Gour­ley. 
"Assuming the license is renewed on Wednesday, then we will be asking for the transfer of the license to the Theta Corporation, which is the formal, operat­ing corporation owned by the Przybylinski brothers," he said. 
Gourley is expecting to encounter a lot of opposition from the neighborhood resi­dents. "It's going to be a real donnybrook. Their only ob­jection should be whether or not the new applicants are qualified to do business there. 
"The neighbors don't want a tavern in their neighbor­hood 'period.' They're com­plaints are directed as to how the business was run in the past," Gourley said. 
"They're not focusing on the qualifications of the new owners who intend to run a respectable business. 
"The South Bend Board of Zoning Appeals has already determined that proper use of the property was, has been, and is tavern and res­taurant as it has been for the past 25 to 30 years. We can't remember when it wasn't a tavern," Gourley said. 


r 
The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 4 
Williams asked,"How do you use your power optimally in

Retired admiral calls Divest 
what we all think is a horrible continuedfrom page 1 system? What is the alterna­tive?"

SDI an 'empty bluff' 
Botha, saying "thousands After a move for a secret bal­
(have been) detained, and lot failed, the Senate voted to 
By CHRIS BEDNARSKI Assistant News Editor 
Calling the Strategic Defense Initiative "snake oil" and an "illusion," retired admiral Noel Gayler said in a lecture Monday night nuclear weapons are an "empty bluff," making the world unstable. 
i Gayler, a 45-year Navy vet­
I eran who once commanded all 
I 
U.S. forces in the Pacific, said there are no sensible uses for nuclear weapons. 
"I looked around in every 

r possible contingency to see r 
where and in what circum­stances how to use a nuclear weapon and the answer always
r came up, no sensible military use," he said. 
~ 
In Europe, Gayler said it is generally believed the United States must start a nuclear war to defend a Soviet attack. "The problem with that, of course, is the Soviets would come back with nuclears." 
Such a war would escalate and "end with the destruction of the United States," he said. "No president with all his marbles would permit the release of these nuclear weap­ons in the first place. So they're an empty bluff," he said. 
Gayler also said nuclear weapons have no political use. "There is no obvious political usefullness for these things. We have not been able to deter the Soviets from aggression in Af­ganistan," he said. 
Gayler called the proposed "Star Wars" system an "illu-

Krishnas 
continuedfrom page 1 
warned in the past, this is the first time he has been arrested, Rakow said. 
Members of the Moundsville group with which Cadorna and White are associated were ar­rested during last year's foot­ball season. They are the first two to be arrested from the sect this year. 
Rakow said bogus vendors outside the stadium on football Saturdays are capitalizing on the name of Notre Dame. "They're not doing it because they're fans," he added. 
"We get a variety of people selling things," Rakow said. Security tells the illegal ven­dors they are "persona non grata," said Rakow. "They bother people as much as the people who scalp tickets." 
Rakow said members of the group from Moundsville go to major sporting events everywhere in the country. For all the sporting events they at­tend they produce their own materials to sell, Rakow said. "It's a big business," he added. 
Often the sect members will say they are collecting money for a boy's school named Nan­dagram, Rakow said. "They walk around, slap a sticker on your coat, and then say they are collecting donations," he said. Rakow said Nandagram could be a bogus school. 
Anti-VIolence Activist 
lAnier for T..chlng Non·VIolence & NCTV full·llme llaff. Lodging !. S3251mo. Reaearch on aggression, publishing & lobbying agalnll violence 

' 
r 
in TV, film, war toya, apcntl1 erOIIca,

I 
elc. Non-vlolenl fllma. Nexllo U IIUnoia. Slu<Mnlloana deferUia. 217·384-1820. 
P.O. Bo• 2157, Champaign IL 81820 

I 
said. 
We must deal with the Soviets on the basis of our com­mon interests, he said. "We have two very strong common interests. One is that we not be .blown up and the other that we don't see nuclear weapons floating around the world in the hands of Quaddaffi, 
"We've never been able to get a sure response in correspond­
a 7-7 tie on the divestment resolution. Student Body Pres­ident Mike Switek then cast his deciding vote in favor of divest­ment. 
Dissatisfied with the result, several senators said there was not enough discussion on the issue. A proposal to reconsider the resolution failed because the Senate wanted to give their position on the issue before the Board of Trustees meets this Friday. 
"We had to solve the issue tonight if it was going to do any good," said HPC Representa­tive Tim Salmon. 

sion, and it's a very pernicious one, about a magic shield that we can have that can protect us from nuclear attack. 
"It is beyond technology to do that now effectively. It is in all probability beyond technol­ogy to do that ever," he said. "There is no one on the cutting edge of technology" who ':>elieves it is possible to create a perfect system or that counter-measures to such a system couldn't be easily and 
\comparitively  cheaply  
developed. "There are  so  many other  

things to deliver nuclear weap­ons," he said. Such things as bombers, cruise missiles and terrorists with nuclear weap­ons could all render "Star Wars" useless. 
Gayler said ''Star Wars" would only promote the nuclear arms race. "If we go ahead with "Star Wars" we can ex­pect a Soviet response, and the simplest way to (respond) would be to build more weap­ons," he said. 
Gayler called the Strategic Defense Initiative "snake oil sprung on a technically un­qualified president." "(Reagan's) been sold this baloney about Star Wars," he hundreds killed" under the measures. 
She said the South African Council of Bishops, which are "closest to the situation than any of us," see divestment as "the most effective non-violent tool left," while the U.S. bis­hops unanimously supported divestment which "aims at pressuring firms to dismantle apartheid." 
Rose also said the trade uni­ons which Father Williams said give blacks economic power fully support divestment. 
In rebuttal, Williams chal­lenged the claim of the support 

Football 
continuedfrom page 1 
Heisler said he did not know 
whether the players would suit 
up for this Saturday's game 
against Penn State. 
"They don't give us that list until Thursday," he said. 
Because the University has a policy of confidentiality in dis­ciplinary matters, it was not known whether the Office of Student Affairs had punished the players. in connection with their arrests. 
In April, Student Affairs dis­ciplined three other football players for their involvement in the assault of a Notre Dame Security guard. One of the players was dismissed from the University, one suspended for the remaining part of the semester and the other fined and placed on disciplinary probation. 
Pearson, one of the three players pictured in The Obser­ver, had been listed as the second-string guard on the depth chart, but failed to travel to the Navy game, the Sun-Times reported. The other players were not listed on the tentative depth chart. 
The front-page photo, which appeared Oct. 28, showed the players watching a World Se­ries game with two sophomores in a dorm room. 
Two of the players were clearly holding beer cans. The other player's left hand was blocked from view. 
Although the photo cutline listed the linemen by name, it did not identify them as football players. 

ence," he said. 
t\~ SUNGLASS a '{ University Park Mall q 
RAY-BANS NOW 25% OFF TO ALL CUSTOMERS WITH STUDENT ID GET 25" OFF BEG. PRICE OFANYSUNGLASSESINSTOCK 

NAMESUKE: VUARNET, CARRERA, BOLLE and CHARLES JOURDAN 
THIS SPECIAL OFFER TO STUDENTS EXPIRES 11/23/86 

Uniw!sity tA Notre Dame 
Foreign StudyPrograms 




GENERAL INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday. November 11. 1986 
6:30p.m. 
117 O"Shaughnessy 

ALL ARE WELCOME 


STUDY IN EUROPE 
The University of Louvaln (est. 1425), Leuven, Belguim offers Complete programmes In Philosophy for the 
degrees of B.A., M.A., and Ph.D plus a junior year abroad programme ...., All courses are In English /1~·'\ 
Tuition is 14,500 Belgium Franks ( ± $250) R I l Write to: Secretary English Programmes s. Kardlnaal Merclerpleln 2, B-3000 leuven, Belgium \~ _.,I
K.U.Leuven ~, 






"ieVV~_O_i_n__t______________Tue~sday~,Nov-emb-ern~,loo~s-pa~ges 
Advertising ban raises question of censorship 
A recent poll sponsored by the Amer­ican Medical Association indicated that 64 percent of the surveyed public favored a cigarette advertising ban. 64 percent of the survey evidently believes that a highway billboard poses that much threat to the community. 
Scott Bearby but wait, there's more 
Granted highway billboards are not the most attractive items on roadsides, but I don't see that this or the elimina­tion of magazine ads will dramatically decrease the number of smokers. In fact, the warning box which is largely placed on each of the ads is more of a detractor than a total banning -"warn­ing" and "dangerous" tend to scare people off. 
Although the results of the poll were questioned by a similar poll for the Can­cer Society which stated only 38 percent were against advertising in magazines and newspapers and 45 percent were against billboard advertising, this is still a substantial percentage of people who are committed to banning adver­tisements. 
This follows the recent trend by some groups to ban books and increase cen­sorship, an attempt to eliminate what one group views to be harmful without giving anyone the choice to say "no." on their own. 
A quick look into the relatively recent past will show that this approach doesn't work. Prohibition is probably the best example of how ineffective banning can be. 
The percentage of smokers in the United States has been decreasing for some time now, not because advertis­ing by the tobacco industry has been on the decline, but because there has been increased awareness about some of the risks associated with smoking. 
The only possible explanation I can see for justifying a total ban on "items which are harmful" is the fact that youngsters might be drawn into the glamour of smoking, but with all of the other vices they could be drawn into, smoking is no longer as tempting as it once was. 
The survey done for the American Cancer Society said six out of ten people believe advertising causes children to start smoking. However, a ban on ad­vertising will do very little good if par­ents choose to smoke in front of their children; this is the best advertisement since most youngsters tend to emulate role models. 
A parent smoking in front of his children is a far more effective adver­tising tool than any magazine ad could ever be. In fact, I remember a Cancer Society TV commercial which showed a father with a small child on his lap lighting up a cigarette, only to have his little boy reach for a cigarette of his own. I think we all realize this is more realistic than the Marlboro Man riding off into the sunset. 
The question I raise is where would the line be drawn on advertisement? Are alcohol ads also in question? What other products will be on the chopping block? 
I strongly agree, as a non-smoker, that there should be restrictions on smoking in public places, especially in light of evidence that secondary smoke does have an effect on non-smokers. With living one block away from an ex­tremely busy expressway for 20 years, I don't need any additional contribu­tions to my lungs. 
Before the attention to the dangers of smoking I too often fell victim to the drifting curls of smoke crossing my path in restaurants and airports. Health considerations or not, drifting smoke can get annoying sometimes. 
Most smokers are understanding of this and I appreciate it (although I had to laugh when on a recent flight a smoker, mistakenly placed in the non­smoking section, lit up a cigarette only to have the flight attendant correct him. He wasn't happy.) 
Certainly we have an obligation to protect the health of citizens as a whole, especially if secondary smoke does have a negative effect. However, if an individual chooses to light up even after seeing "WARNING: The Surgeon Gen­eral has determined that cigarette smoking could be hazardous to your health" just as alcohol might be damag­ing to the liver and saccharine could cause cancer, it is his choice -as long as he is aware of the consequences and does not try to affect others. 
Rather than working on a banning of advertising I would suggest efforts on education -education to the youngsters about the possible side effects of smoking. Education (or lack of it) is a critical step, but something overlooked in most areas. 
A ban on tobacco advertisements will not eliminate smoking and is a poten­tially dangerous step in the media. Their current informational efforts and counter-campaigns are a much safer and effective means. 
Scott Bearby is a junior govern­
mentiALPA major and Editor of The Observer. 

All members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
are encouraged to express their opinions in the 
Viewpoint section of The Observer. 
All letters should be typed and signed by the author. 
SHOUWN'T QfJ/Tf: I CAN'T JERCMY ~GHT! FOLLOW GO FIRST, CAN /,IJ&-JE!<£/rlY. 1?£6'! He OIANGC Ht'HOO HAS SEN-TH£8AT-&I.ElTR.I­
/ORJTY. 71NG (}IU)[!R, 
~!?E? 
Viewpoint 
HE CAN'T. HE'S 
GOOD POINT. 5TIU PRAY!N6. 
WJ'f;]'!f',f NO, I'M /.()(J(/NG 
At; fi{JIEf)-FOR.MYGIA93ES. 111 cnJ YOU !JtT?CR. GO 
VUA/, ~l5f;J~...!___ 




Fundamentalists resist 
diversity of thought 
While paging through a recent issue of Newsweek, I happened to see an ar­ticle describing a battle currently being waged in the Tennessee courts by a growing fundamentalist movement. 
Seven families are suing their local school board over textbooks they deemed offensive to their religious beliefs. OK, I said to myself, I have no problems with that. If their freedom of religion is being infringed upon they have every right to protest. But what disturbed me greatly was a quote by one of the parents involved with the case which epitomizes the most dan­gerous aspect of the entire fundamen­talist movement. "Her eyes brimming with tears, (she) also told the courtroom ... she objected to teachings (which) ... 'could produce changes in my child's way of thinking-they could become confused.' " 
Matthew Slaughter 
guest column 
Herein lies the most serious problem with the fundamentalists. It is not their views which are at fault; every Amer­ican rightly deserves the freedom to possess his or her own opinions. Rather, the problem lies in the adamancy with which they hold these views. The im­mutability of this growing group evokes at best uneasiness, at worst alarm. 
Fundamentalists today have taken a precarious step. In effect, they are now calling for the eradication of one of the basic tenets upon which our govern­ment and society are founded: diver­sity of thought. Citizens of no other country enjoy as we do the ability to hear, discuss, and decide upon opposing doctrines. Only through this continuous 
Trudeau 
self-re-examination do we advance ourselves. Without it we stagnate in a dearth of creativity. 
Yet this stagnation is exactly what fundamentalist thinking effects. These people wish to eradicatefrom their chil­dren's schools all traces of thought which do not match theirs. These chil­dren shall grow up with the frightfully erroneous attitude that they are right and everyone else is wrong. Period. History provides us with foreboding ex­amples of what such elitist thinking produces. One need look no further than this century to find all too vivid exam­ples in Adolf Hitler's "master race" and the Soviet Union's "worker's party." Countless millions have been killed in the name of purity of thought. Such deplorable purges cannot occur again. 
This is not to say that all fundamen­talists must be rounded up in a heretical witch hunt and burned at the stake. Rather, fundamentalists should simply stop and re-examine what results their current fight could produce. Out of fierce religious convictions they have overstepped the boundary of accep­table actions. But this is a boundary which we must allow no one to cross. We cannot permit any group in our so­ciety to attain the dangerous mentality of intellectual supremacy whch allows no room for debate. Such an attitude has produced and always will produce deplorable results. Banning textbooks will accomplish little but the evolution of a homogenous, unquestioning youth. Society possesses a duty to itself to prevent the development of such a pop­ulation at all costs. 
MatthewSlaughter is enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. 
Quote of the day 
"'And so, my fellow Americans: ask not what your country can do for you-ask what you can do for your country." 
John F. Kennedy (1917-1963) Inaugural address, 1961 
"ielYJ?.~<>~i~ll_t.______________________________________________________________T_ue_s_da~y~,_N_ov_e_m_b_e_r_11~,-100_6~-p~a~g~e--6 
P.O.Box Q 

do people get so offended at these ex­At this other gate we were told we had Sandinista organization are all used to
Student ·senate must 
amples when something like The Mil­to buy an $18 ticket (conveniently, they control and intimidate the people. 
push for divestment ler's Tale from Chaucer's "Canterbury had single tickets available which no The Sandinistas' economic mis­Tales" is openly violent and sexual but one else had purchased). Extortion was management, human rights violations is accepted as good classic humor? Are not a word I felt was in the University's and abuse of governmental authority Dear Editor: these same people just as offended at dictionary. However, after traveling have driven more than 500,000 In the Nov.4 issue of The Observer it our television, magazines and music? 1000 miles to attend the game, what was Nicaraguans into exile (over 20 percent
I. 
was reported that the Student Senate Ellsworth's jacket is innocent until I to do but capitulate and buy it. of the country's population). Included I decided to table a motion to recom­someone with a mind looking for that Even airlines, whose direction is in the exiled group are over 80 percent!'"" mend that the Board of Trustees divest second meaning finds humor, violence, geared towards turning a profit, do not of the former members of the NotreI from South Africa. The obstacle to pas­or chooses to ignore it. require a ticket for children under the Dame Club of Nicaragua. 
r ~ 
sage of this motion, if Observer Life is difficult and painful, and too age of two. I often wonder whether the I strongly recommend to the whole coverage was accurate, was a concern many hours are spent studying mass University concerns itself with how student body of Notre Dame and the
r 
r that the Senate has no proper mandate spectrometers and balance sheets. Stu­their seemingly innocuous edicts af­residents of South Bend that they attend r from the students on this issue. Several dents physically are animals becoming fects others. Although the University on Nov. 21, the forum with Ramirez; r student leaders were quoted as saying sexual adults and we have deep rooted will always have a special place in my and I certainly hope that somebody ask r that their constituencies were not desires. Humor involving sex or vio­heart, I now feel a slight pang and hurt him the following questions: 
worried about the situation in South lence attracts us, and also lightens the and feel that much more than $18 has (1) Why the Sandinista anthem states ~ Africa. Thus, they argue, how could we pressures of life. But this doesn't keep been taken away. that "the American People are the vote to recommend divestment? us from treating each other with enemies of humanity" 
,... 
The present leaders seem to be for­respect and dignity. WilliamS. Wyman (2) Why the Sandinista government I getting one important thing: that on I am somewhat insulted when some­Class of 1981 has expelled from Nicaragua Bishop I this issue, the Student Senate does have one finds offense in a harmless cheer Pablo Antonio Vega and Monsignor Bis­
a mandate. Just last spring, in the same or in the famous jacket. This is also Exiled Nicaraguan has mark Carballo election in which many of the present related to Notre Dame's terror of being (3) Why they have closed all opposi­student leaders were elected, Notre associated with anything alcoholic. We questions for lecturer tion newspapers, TV's and radio sta­Dame students voted for a resolution do not need a moral guru ruling over tions
Dear Editor:

urging the University to divest. The us; the Catholic Church is quite enough. (4) Why over 20 percent of the
Sergio Ramirez, vice president of
conditions which prompted the students The students are good people. They country's population has left since 1979
Nicaragua, has accepted an invitation
to vote in this way have only worsened know sexual and violent humor is just (5) How many of the above questions 
on Nov. 21 to address the Notre Dame 
since that time, to the point where now that. ..humor. They will not incor­could be asked by someone living in
student body. Since learning of 
many major corporations are moving porate it into their moral standards. If Nicaragua
Ramirez's visit, I contacted the spon­
to distance themselves from their hold­something is in poor taste I feel the I would like to state once again,
soring body (The Graduate Association 
ings in South Africa. students themselves have enough self­please go to the forum. 
for Latin American Affairs) via his rep­Because this is true, I cannot see how esteem to do something to stop it. The resentative, Jurgen Brauer, to see if I Roberto J. Arguellothe present Student Senate could rea­problems would be solved much more could get invited to present the reality Notre Dame '77, MBA '79 sonably believe that students have effectively internally, by the students, and suffering of the Nicaraguan popu­changed their minds. than by angry authority figures that the lation since the Sandinista takeover of Lecture on NicaraguaThe spring elections gave the campus students try naturally and quietly to 1979. To my surprise, I was told that I new leaders-the ones on the present rebel against. 

was not welcome. must include all sides 
Senate. In the same election, through Brauer's response did not really hurt 
Thomas Felton

two referenda, one on parietals and one me. However, I think it is the Notre Dear Editor:
Morrissey Hall

on divestment, these new leaders were Dame student body who is going to suf­As a 1979 graduate of Notre Dame, I also given a program of action, a man­fer from only hearing the Ramirez side. would formally like to lodge my com­date. 
As a Nicaraguan American who has plaint about the visit of Sergio Ramirez, I am happy to see the Senate acting Stadium policy toward suffered seven long years of exile, I Vice President of Nicaragua, to the on the parietals issue. I urge the Senate would like to bring to your attention University.
to take similar action on divestment children is exploitative 
what Ramirez's government has done Ramirez is a known communist and Dear Editor: since gaining power. ardent anti-American. The least the Joe Merchant I was so proud to bring my wife and Today, in Nicaragua, the banner of University, or whoever is sponsoring Grace Hall three-month-old daughter to the Pit­Sandinismo is giving way to the reality the visit of Mr. Ramirez, could do is tsburgh game. We walked around the of communism. Since 1979, the Sandi­allow both sides of the issue to be pre­campus doing the perfunctory duties: nistas have consolidated control over sented. This could be by a Nicaraguan

Self expression causes 
we posed for the classic picture in front the government and the armed forces. exiled in this country or by an Ameri­of the dome, dropped the usual bundle They have placed under state control, can speaking on behalf of the position

concern among some 
at the bookstore. I also felt a strange over 70 percent of Nicaragua's industry of the exiled Nicaraguans. sensation pushing a stroller a few years and over 50 percent of its agriculture. It is unfair to the students of Notre Dear Editor: after I had been a student unaware of By the selective application of mone­Dame to present only the Sandinista 
I am very concerned about my atti­the changes in my life to come. tary and labor laws, they exert pres­viewpoint. The purpose of Notre Dame tude and the conflicting attitudes of We tailgated with some good friends sure against the remainder of the in­is to foster and promote intellectual many at Notre Dame concerning the then walked to the stadium. We went dustrial and agricultural sectors. The thought and discourse, and with only issues of morality in the way we ex­to our gate and the usher told us we Sandinistas control all media outlets one side of an issue presented, partic­press ourselves. My concern stems needed a ticket for our daughter. I was through censorship. They recently ularly one of this nature, a great dis­mainly from the revoking of "Louie, quite surprised but somewhat com­closed the country's only independent service is being afforded the students Louie" from the band and the recent forted by the fact the usher said to go newspaper, La Prensa. Neighborhood of Notre Dame. craze over the jacket bearing "Liquor to another gate to get a ticket as his watch committees, informant net­Carey L. Ewingin the Front, Poker in the Rear." Why tone sounded like we would get a pass. works, and enforced participants in the 
Class of 1979 


General Board 

Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Editor-in-Chief................... Joe Murphy Controller .................. Alex VonderHaar Managing Editor ................ Kevin Becker Production Manager ............. Chris Bowler 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ................ Scott Bearby Photography Manager .......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertismg Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager .... , ........ Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Creadon their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
-------~~ ---~---------------------___.. 
Accent 
Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 7 
PI•gS.• 
DANIEL C. DeCARLO Features writer 
Every year introductory psychology stu­dents are given the opportunity to partic­ipate in campus psychology experiments conducted by professors and graduate students here at Notre Dame. Students who decide to participate in the experi­ments can earn extra credit points toward their psychology classes and learn some­thing about themselves. 
The extra credit points that can be earned vary from class to class. Usually, for every hour that a student spends on an experiment he is awarded a bonus point, up to six hours or a maximum of six extra bonus points. This can usually translate into four to five percent of a student's grade. 
The majority of the experiments have something to do with learning and 




credit for experimenting 
memory. For example, Dr. Mark McDaniel of the Notre Dame psychology depart­ment developed an experiment to deter­mine if there is a better way to learn vo­cabulary words other than the accepted educational practice of contextual learn­ing. learning the words in the context of a sentance. 
It is McDaniel's contention thata system called the mnemonic key word system is the most effective form of vocabulary learning. especially with people who char­acteristically have some sort of deficiency with their verbal skills. The system works by taking a part of the word that is familiar and applying a symbol to it. For example, the word "carta" is Spanish for letter. The subject could use the "cart" part of the word and apply a symbol to it. 
The symbol should be something un­usual so as to heighten the individuals ability to recall it at a later time. For "cart" one could think of a cart with a big letter in it. Therefore, whenever the word comes up again the subject will recall the odd image and be able to identify the meaning of the word. 
McDaniel uses two sets ofrandomly se­lected students to conduct his experi­ments. He will give a set of words to one group and let them study on their own. The other group will be instructed how to remember the words by use of the mnemonic key word system. 
He then tests both sets of students. McDaniel has found that subjects in the mnemonic group score higher than the other group. 
He does point out, however, that most students with high SAT verbal scores do well in both groups. Apparently brightstu­dents can assimilate their own systems very well. The mnemonic system works best where it is the most needed, with 
' 0
.::::.c­
those who have difficulty with word reten­tion. 
There are countless other experiments going on across campus, some not as intense as McDaniel's. Beth Rosenstreich, president of the Notre Dame psychology club participated in an experiment when she was a freshman designed to test the ability or willingness of a person to follow directions. 
She was given a full can of carrots, in­structed not to eat any but to return in one week for verification. Upon returning the following week Rosenstreich's carrot can was weighed to see if it was lighter, thereby determining If she had eaten any carrots. The can was empty, proving that Rosenstreich either loved carrots or she simply had no respect for authority. 
All those students who are interested in participating in this program should see their psychology instructor. 

~~---­
The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
LeMans Hall won the Saint Mary's flag football cham­pionship Sunday with a 19-6 victory over McCandless. McCandless beat Holy Cross, 7-6, to advance to the finals, while LeMans beat Regina 6-0. The finals victory allowed LeMans to finish unbeaten at 5-0. Leigh Ann Donnelly scored two touchdowns to lead LeMans, which overcame a 6-0 deficit to go on to totally dominate McCandless. -The Observer 
The ND crew team will hold a general meeting tonight on the first floor of LaFortune to discuss the ergathon. For more information contact Pat at 4071 or Carol at 2954. -The Observer 
WVFI-AM 64 airs "Speaking of Sports" live tonight at 10 as Host Rudy Brandl welcomes special guest Irish tail­back Anthony Johnson. They join co-anchors Kevin Her­bert and Jamey Rappis for a discussion of Notre Dame football. Listeners may call in at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. 
-The Observer 
Title 
continuedfrom page 12 

In the other semi-final matchup, the outcome as well as the game's performances, were parallel to Howard­Stanford game. Flanner pulled away from Sorin 13-0, to put them back in the championship after they lost to Alumni just one year ago. 
"We got off to a slow start," said Flanner Coach Jim Fitzgerald about the game, "but we made some adjust­ments and began to take con­trol." 
Flanner's first touchdown drive was set up by an excellent punt return by Mike Reyda. The key play of the drive was set up by a 22-yard pass from QB Randy Bridgeman to TE Pete Kazmierczak. On the next play, Tim Murney ran nine yards for the touchdown just before the end of the first half. In the second Half, Flanner 
dominated the Screaming Ot­ters both offensively and defen­sively, opening with a 65-yard drive, culminating with a 26­yard run by Jim Kelly, who found the endzone and padded Flanner's lead to 13-0. That was enough to secure victory, as the offensive line of Ed Marchesel­lii, Brian Fitzgerald, Dave 
Coderre, Ray Arce, and Darrin Mertz, ground it out in the trenches, while the defense kept Sorin at bay. Murney's in­terception at the Flaner 20­yard line was the Screaming Otters' deepest threat at scoring. 
"We are very excited about 
playing  in  Notre  Dame  
Stadium  again,"  said  
Fitzgerald,  "and  it  was  a  
dream that has  now  become  

reality. We know Stanford has a great team and has the po­tential to score a lot of points, but we have been able to come together as a team and rise to the occasion." 
There it is: undefeated Stan­ford versus underdog Flanner. It should be a memorable final. 
·--·· 

Calendar 
Special to The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has an­nounced the following dead­lines for upcoming events: 
Friday is the deadline for an upcoming Turkey Shoot, which is scheduled to take place Tues­day and Wednesday, Nov. 18 and 19, from 4:30 to 6 p.m. 
No advanced registration is required for tonight's Kayak Clinic at the Rolfs Aquatic Cen­ter, slated to get under way at 7 p.m. The event is free of charge and equipment will be provided. 
Openings in NVA programs, including aerobics, karate, stretchercise and hydrorobics are still available as well. 
Further information andlor registration may be obtained by contacting NVA at 239-6100 or by stopping by the NVA of­fices in the ACC. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until 3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
Wordprocessing Call LaVonne 287·9024 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
NEED A UTILE MAGIC IN YOUR LIFE? CALL TIM HANLON, 256 ·1353 Ventriloquisi'Magician One of the best, honest. 
typing 277-9649 
\ LOST/FOUND I 
LOST before Oct. Break: Faded Levi's jacket. No side pockets, no i.d. S please return-great sentimental value. Call Polly at 3611. 
LOST: POCKETBOOK CONTAINING COLLECTION OF BAD POETRY. LOST IN FRONT OF DEClO. I SAW SOME­BODY READING IT AS THEY WALKED OUT OF DEClO BUT I DID NOT KNOW I'D LOST IT AT THAT POINT. CALL 250 IF YOU FOUND fT. REWARD $$$$ 
LOST: YELLOW CAT. LAST SEEN NEAR ST. JOSEPH'S HALL. REWARD. CALL 277-2950, EXT. 2204 OR 272­3429. 
LOST: SIX KEYS ON A RING THAT SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED THEM!!! LOST ON 1001. ANNETTE 284-4372. 
LOST: BLACK RAYBAN "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES ON 1001. ANNETTE 284-4372. 
LOST: N.D. STARTER JACKET (THE KIND WITH NOTRE DAME PRINTED ACROSS THE FRONT) WAS TAKEN FROM THEODORE'S ON THE NIGHT OF NOV. 7. IT WAS ORIGINALLY PLACED NEAR THE ENTRANCE. IF YOU PICKED IT UP, PLEASE CALL MARK AT 1712. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED. 
STUDENT TICKET BOOK FOUND IN SOUTH DINING HALL LAST SUNDAY NITE. CALL JAMES AT X3185 TO IDEN­TIFY. 
I've got your black overcoat, you've got mine. Swijched at Senior Bar las1 Wed. Yours is nicer, I have your car keys, mine is cooler, let's switch back. Call Dan e! 272-6054 
Lost at Senior Bar after SMU game: One navy blue mens jacket. nfound please call 288-2749. Thanks. 
LOST: GRAY LAMBSWOOL SCARF, probably in South Dining Hall. Call Elaine at 272-6016 after 7 pm. REWARD $$$. 
LOST BLUE HC WORKS OF CHAUCER. I MISS !Til IF FOUND CALL ALISON 2778 
LOST: LONG WOOL BLACK DRESS COAT BY "PORTRAIT". MISTAKENLY TAKEN F ROM DILLON'S FORMAL LAST FRIDAY. REWARD IF FOUND­PLEASE CALL LISA 284-4329 

• FOR RENT 
Guests coming for game need place to stay? Silverbrook Bed-eBreakfast in Niles. Clean, quiet, reasonable. 616-684­2323 evenings. 
···································· 

GARAGE FOR RENT ONE HALF MILE FROM NO 30$'MO. 2723491 
WANTED 

WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DELIVERY PERSONNEL $5.00 AN HOUR GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO WEEKS! FLEXIBLE NIGHT·TIME HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE­TWEEN 4:30PM AND 9:00PM AT 1835 SOUTH BEND AV 277-2151 
In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn State GA or Student ticket!!! Call Theresa X4041111 Will pay big! 
Travel field posrtion immediately avail­able. Good commissions, valuable work experience, travel, and other benefits. Call Brad Nelson (toll frea) 1·800-433­7747 for a complete information mailer. 
Wanted school representative for col­legiate sporting company. Great pay, Call collect 1-813-346-2009. 
................................................................ 
Wartresses, Waiters needed at Knol­lwood Country Club. No experience nec­essary. Knollwood Country Club, 16633 Baywood Dr., Granger, ln., 277-1541. 
FiioE:.N'eii.oiio.:rO'·c:c;FiNiN'i3·:·N"v·(c;R 
AREA-ELMIRA,WAVERLY,BATH) FOR T-BREAK. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. CALL ANNE AT 1260 TILL 1:OOAM. 
oo:;N~~··-w;~~··i;~~;;..i~ki·~~··i~~-8;\s. 
SIST. Dave 4105 
CITY SOFTBALL TEAM NEEDS 3RD BASEMAN-OUTFIELDER MENS TEAM SUN. NIGHT LEAGUE 18 GAME SEASON CALL COACH K 2875500 
RIDERS NEEDED to Madlson.Leaving Thurs 13,retuming Sun 16.Mike 1612 ­
NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR PENN STATE! WILL PAY$! CALL TOM-1774. 
Year round student representatives needed to work for (2) national group travel companies. Eam S's and frea trips­Year Round. Next trips-Miami, Fi. Lauderdale,Daytona Baach. Call 1-800­·654-6933. This could be a member of your school staff. 
I NEED A RIDE TO U OF I CHAMPAIGN NOV. 14 CALL JOHN 1050 
FOR SALE 

Is H True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 
through the U.S. government ? Get the 
facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ext 
7316 
i3uir..\Fi···;·2··s:rFiiNci:··s·;&;.··2::n:·44ii2 
AFTER 6. 
sKis··c;L:iN···uN·useo ..i95ci:1..size··;·3 
LOOK BNDGS $220 277-4482 AFTER 
6 
MACINTOSH Computer, new Main Logic Board under warranty, includes 12BK main unrt, keyboard and mouse. $995 Call 277-9185 
.........................................·....................... 
TICKETS 
I NEED PENN ST GAs.272-6306 
BUBBLE BUS IS COMING!! BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST... PLEASE HELP ME ... NEED 26 PSU TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 OR 1352. 
BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX -CALL T J -283-1899 
NEED PENN STATE GAs -CALL 283­3648. 
1 need 2 Penn ST. GA's. Call 1352 or 1441. 
Need Penn St Tix 2 GA and 1 STLID $$$ Call Kevin at 272-8562 
NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S RICH 1218 
........................................ 
HELP! NEED 3 PENN STATE STUD TIX CALL CATHY 2914 
I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL FRED AT 288-2821 
I've invited the big guy to the LSU game. Yep, that's right, God's coming. Unfor­tunately I forgot to get him tickets and now I'm facing eternal damnation or at least a lot of purgatory. Please sell me your LSU tickets. Call 2493 and save my soul. 
Need Penn State Tix. Will pay big bucks. Call Joe after 6p.m. 287-4561. 
NEED PENN STUDENT TX'S-CALL 1272 
NEED 1-4 PENN STATE GA'S CALL X2266 
I NEED PSU stu tickets AND YUGOS­LAVIA studs & GAs DOC 283-3380 
RICH DAD NEEDS 2 Penn State GA's. Call Frank, 288-2911 
Family beck home wants to see NO beat LSU. I need tix. Call Mike-2371 
PLEASE HELPII I need PENN STATE G.A.'s or Student tix. call even. after 10 pm. Thanks Ann, 284-5454 
PENN ST. GA'S FOR SALE. 277-0296. 
NEED 1 PENN ST GA CALL MIKE 1562 
NEED ONE STUDENT OR G.A. TICKET FOR PENN STATE. CALL MATIS. AT 1750. 
need PSU GA;s 277-9794 
CALL 1400-1 need 1 PENN ST GA or STUDENT Ticket! Bob$$$ 
NEED 4 PENN ST STD TIX CALL JILL X 2949 
Student and GA tickets needed for Penn State. Willing to pay "scalper's prices" This is getting desperate. Call 2339. 

Need student and GA tickets for Penn State. Will give you my roommate in return for a good seat Call Paula at 2976. 
Big $$$ for many PennSt tix. Mario 1173 
HELP! Need PENN STATE tix. Pref.stud.$$$.Thanx. Mary 277-6033 
DO YOU NEED MONEY? I NEED 2 PEN· NST GA'S. CALL KATHRYN 284-5428. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA's CALL JOHN 1689 
MUST HAVE 4 GA'S AND 1 STUD TIX FOR PENN!! CALL DAVE AT 2271 
3 STUDENT PENN ST TIX 4 SALE TO BEST OFFER(S). CHRIS X3113. 
NEED 2 PENN ST. GA'S BADLY. CALL 1251 
I NEED PENN ST. TIX PLEASE CALL JIM 289·3482 AFTER 5 P.M. 
SELL ME YOUR 4 PENN STATE GA'SIII!! please. £232-5743 Elisa 
I ROADTRIPPED TO LAST YEAR'S PENN STATE GAME: Have pity on me and sell me two GA's for this year's game. Call Max a1 283-1384 
My parents vacationed in the mountains of Pennsylvania this year and do you know what they brought back with them? That's right, two nittany lions -real ones. Consequently, they have threatened to make me lion chow if I don't get them 2 Penn State GAs. If you don't want to see Notre Dame fall to the nittany lions, please call Paul at 272-3463 $$$$. 
Need Penn St. tix Call Jim at 1874 
I have my sensibilities you know -London Fall '86 
NEED 6 PSU TIXS:4 TOGETHER. NICK 3591 
Needed: Tixs for Penn State--GA or Stu­dent Call 288-9483 
Need 2 ND-PSU G. A.'s & 1 ND-PSU Student Tix -WILL PAY ANY PRICE Call: Gerry x1062 
I BE HAVIN A PAIR OF PENN ST GA'S ON THE 50 YO LINE. IF YOU BE WAN­TIN EM, BE CALLIN THE DUDE. THE NUMBER BE BEIN 232-6153. 
NEED PENN ST GA'S -FRED 289-9225 
NEED PENN STATE TIX CALL MIKE AT 2208 OR2163 
PLEASE HELP ME OUT I NEED TICKETS FOR PENN STATE. 2 G.A.'S AND 1 STUDENT OR 3 G.A.'S. PLEASE CALL PAUL AT 2247 OR 2317. 
WABWanted: 4 Penn St. Tics 
S. Beckman 513-738-6502 days, 513-661-9341 after 6 
set the pin down, let the fingers do the walking and give me a call. I NEED 4 PENN GA Tickets. Call MO at 1813. 
NEED PITI TIX-STUD OR GA. PLEASE CALL DIANE-3738! 
MOM IS DYING! NEED PENN ST TIX. CALL LD AT 1107 
Sports fanactic brother says he's coming to see me but really just wants to see Penn. State game. Got a ticket to sell?? Patty 2784 
JOE PATERNO IS THE NEXT UNIVER­SITY PRESIDENT'!! Actually, he's just a man whose ego is too big. Contribute to reducing his ego by selling me your GAs to Saturday's game. I need two of 'em' Call 239-5303 and ask for Trip. 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM, PROCTER & GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 ­INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES PROGRAMS: USA & CHILE. CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE). 
PAN.DORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO BOB HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR $$ OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 10-5:30. 233­2342. 
ARTS AND LETIERS COLLEGE SWEATSHIRTS! ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING HALLS OR CALL 283-1163. $12.00 
SOPHOMORES: ROLF'S POOL PARTY! COME JOIN US IN EVERY­THING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO DO IN A POOL--WED, NOV. 12 
Are you running a D&D game and need another player? If so call 4278 
ARTS AND LETIERS COLLEGE SWEATSHIRTS! ON SALE THIS WEEK IN THE DINING HALLS OR CALL 283-1163. $12.00 
YOU'RE CORDIALLY INVITED TO AT­TEND A PRESENTATION ON CAREERS AND COMMERCIAL 
BANKING AND TRUST AND FINAN­CIAL SERVICES SPONSORED BY THE NORTHERN TRUST BANK OF CHICAGO ON THURSDAY, NOV. 13, FROM 7 TO 9 IN THE UPPER LOUNGE OF THE UNIVERSITY CLUB. REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED. 
RIGHT TO LIFE 
RIGHT TO LIFE 
RIGHT TO LIFE 
MONDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 10, 
NOTRE DAME!SAINT MARY'S RIGHT 
TO LIFE WILL SPONSOR A SPEECH 
AND GENERAL MEETING. PROF. 
JANET SMITH WILL SPEAK ON 
"DEFENDING THE PRO-LIFE POSI­
TION; ANSWERING THE HARDEST 
QUESTIONS" THERE IS NO CHARGE 
AND THE SPEECH WILL BEGIN AT 
9PM IN THE LAFORTUNE UTILE 
THEATER 
CARNIVAL OF CAREERS"""TODAY"""ANGELA 3-6PM ALL WELCOMEIIII SPONSOR ED BY SMC CAREER COUNSELING DEPT AND SMC STUDENT GOVT ""DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU WANT TO DO WHEN YOU GROW UP???? 
GENTLEMEN: Keap phriday night open to bid a phond. phinal pharewell to Phil Sheridan. Lois can come, too! Lots of chili and other fun. Call Q, 287-5903, for details of the phestival... 
Whatever happened to Chuck Freeby? 
ATIENTION VOLUNTEERS: If you would like to attend orientation for SHEL­TER FOR THE HOMELESS call 282­2397 from 9-5 or 684-3664 5· 1 1 by Nov 14 
CALLING DR JUNKINS! 
CALLING DR. JUNKINS! 
CONGRATULATIONS, MARNO! I knew you could do it. I'm so proud of you. Love, Kik-Peck 
SENIORSI!! You are cordially invited to the Sen1or Class Block Party for the Northeast Netghborhood this Frtday from 4 to 6:30 pm at the A.C.C. 50 CENT BEVERAGES SENIORS!!! 
V -I'm still disoriented! -T 
This is because it's great to see your name in the paper, isn't it MARK SKOL· 
NICKI? Cheer up, Marly. It's not quite a bouquet of roses, but then again, when do I do the usual? Going crazy II That's why 
great job on eating all that fruit Shirley 
Camp Aiello 2! Don't miss the fun this Friday. Stay tuned to this space 
The Score: BOO 1 Hapless male popu­lation 0 and it's not over yeL 
OCN Hall Repa 
Alumni Walsh Cavanaugh 
Pick-up after 6:00 tonight Due: Wed. at 1O:OOp.m. 
"STOP MAKING SENSE" tonight at Senior-Alumni Club. Movie begins at 1 0:30pm. Free admission, and yes, 21 ID is required. Sponsored by the Senior Class. SENIOR SUDS-N-.CINEMA NIGHT TONIGHT!!! 
MATI-HEY!!! -1 WOULD HAVE SIGNED THIS BUT SOMEONE SHOT ME THINK­ING I WAS A NEWSPAPER REPORTER! 
USC TRIP-GOERS Mealing Tues. Nov 11th 7:30 Lower-level Lafortune Bring Ticket$$$$ 
USC TRIP-GOERS Meeting Tues. Nov 
11 7:30 Lower level Lafortune Bring Ticket$$$$ 
USC TRIP-GOERS Meating Tues. Nov 11th 7:30 Lower-level Lafortune Bring Ticket$$$$ 
I NEED A RIDE TO MICH. FOR BREAK. CALL COLLEEN-284-4149 
The countdown to SATURDAY NIGHT begins now. Hang in there Kris, you can do ijl! je vous aim beaucoup, darling. T. 
IIIIIII!!Happy Birthday.Margoiiiiiiiiiii!Remember one thing:l'll always love yallllllll .......... Hugs and kisses,Gertie P.S.When you least expect it,expect ij----that is,from another old friend,of course ......... .. 
THE RESULTS FROM THE CLINIC IN­DICATE THAT I HAVE A CHRONIC CASE OF BORBORYGMUS. WHAT WILL MY BOYFRIEND SAY?! --SUE 
The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 9 
Sailing Club surprises everyone with performance 
Members of the Notre Dame Sailing Club surprised themselves as much as anybody else last weekend when they won the Area A Elimina­tions at the University of Michigan. 
The Irish were only hoping to finish as one of the top three teams, which would enable them to reach the Timmie Angstrom Regatta in Chicago. They expected a team like Michigan, which had beaten them earlier in the season, would keep them from placing first. 
"Winning it was pretty surprising. We raced Michigan earlier in the year, and they beat us," said Team Captain Mark Ryan. "We just wanted to get in the top three to qualify for the Timmies." 
Notre Dame scored 26 points to outdistance second-place Michigan by seven points. Notre Dame, Michigan, and Toledo all qualified for the prestigious Timmie Angstrom Regatta over Thanksgiving break. 
Club President Tony Fink led Notre Dame wttn four firsts and two thirds. Ryan added five seconds and a first. 
"I was surprised at Tony Fink's performance. His showing was incredible for Notre Dame," said senior Pete Wall. 
Steve Megargee 
Club Corner 

Wall and Ann Wiedemann also turned in strong efforts for the Irish. 

"This was our most important regatta of the · year so far, and we won by a good amount," said Fink. "We're looking forward to the Timmies now." 
The upset victory gives the Irish added momen­tum going into the Timmie Angstrom Regatta at the Chicago Yacht Club. Last year, 18 schools from across the country competed in this regatta. 
"We placed tenth last year, which was our best finish ever," said Ryan. "We'd like to do the same. If we do that well, it'll be great." 
Just as the varsity teams in the Rowing Club ended their fall season, members of the novice program began theirs with a regatta against Mic­higan last Sunday. 


The 1987 Notre Dame COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL Needs Your Help: -with advertising -with applications -with artwork -with production -in many other areas There will be a short organizational meeting at 9:00 pm on Tuesday, November 11, in the New Orleans Room, LaFortune Student Center. For more info, or if you can't make the meeting, please call Kevin Cronin at 283-2139.  

.---~~E THOMAS J.--... 
HITECENTER 
FORLAWAND GOVERNMENT---­Notre Dame law School 
presents a lecture by 
Professor Kenneth Goodpaster Harvard Business School on 
'Can a Corporation Have a Conscience (and should It have one?)' 
Wednesday, Nov. 12 3:45p.m. Center for Social Concerns 
By KATHLEEN McKER­NAN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's swim team, lost its own invitational Friday, dropping the 22nd An­nual Notre Dame Relays to Illinois-Chicago. The Irish defeated North Central, Wabash, Valpo and the Mar­quette Swim Club to salvage a second-place finish with 194 points to Illinois-Chicago's 198. 
"We swam a heads-up, well­executed, aggressive meet," Irish Coach Tim Welsh said. "We were leading going into the final event and swam strong throughout the entire day." 
Notre Dame failed to withstand a late-meet charge 

Both the men's team and women's team had boats enter the final heats in the regatta held at the Notre Dame boathouse. 
The novice team will also participate in the Frostbite Regatta at Philadelphia on November 
21. The regatta will feature several eastern and southern schools. ' .. 
"They looked pretty strong, and it's a good basis for them to work with in the next three weeks," said Gretchen Tugliese. "Technique looked really good. It's just a matter of polishing that technique and getting more power." 
Competition does not start until February, but the Gymnastics Club may have already had its biggest struggle of the year-finding a coach. 
The 3Q-member team, which has been practicing at Saint Mary's throughout the fall, could not find someone to coach them until recently. Sandy Vanslager is an interim coach, and Steve Kimbro will take over as the head coach this Friday. 
"We had to find someone who was not a student who was willing to give two hours a day, five days a week until May, so we had a hard time," said Club President Matt Sennett. 
Irish men fall to Illinois-Chicago despite encouraging performance 
from Illinois-Chicago, who took six of the last seven relay events and swept the diving competitions. With only the 200­yard medley relay remaining, the Irish had a two-point lead. Illinois-Chicago took the event and the meet with a time of 1:40.99. 
The Irish showing was hardly disappointing, however, be­cause the majority of the swim­mers were competing outside of their events. Coach Welsh took advantage of the opportu­nity to test the versatility of his squad. 
"It was a highly competitive meet with a superb perfor­mance for all six teams," Welsh said. "It was a tough one to lose, but we swam a good meet. We know more about our strengths and weaknesses than we did last week." 
That knowledge could be­come key later in the season when the competitive dual­meet season begins. 
Winners for Notre Dame in­cluded the 200-and 800-yard freestyle teams, led by the sophomore tandems of Roger Miro and Chris Petrillo. Fresh­man Bill Jackoboice also con­tributed to the winning 200­yard event, whose 1:27.81 time set a new meet record. 
Chris Walsh, John Koselka, David Vreeland, and David Thoman took first in the 400­yard Backstroke with a 3:58.71 time. 
Notre Dame takes a week off before travelling to Grand Rapids on Nov. 22 to take on Ferris State. 
Playoffs 
continuedfrom page 12 
Of course, the discussion then turns to the teams in the running for the top four spots. What about the teams who don't make it? Won't there be even more controversy? 
The controversy will never completely go away as long as a poll is involved. But the whole idea of a playoff is to avoid the possibility of an undefeated team not even getting a shot at the title. 

I can't remember a year when more than four undefeated teams existed come season's end. 
Teams complain about not making the NCAA basketball tournment as well -but this does not stop it from being one of the greatest competitions on today's sports scene. Under the 
London School of Economics and Political Science A chance to study and live in London 
present system, teams ranked below the fourth slot after the regular season usually don't have a shot at the top spot anyway. What are they losing by not making the playoffs? 
For the sake of the fans, but more importantly for the sake of the teams who inevitably get jipped come New Year's Day, the time has come for college football to find a way to crown its 
true  champion.  After  all,  
shouldn't  the  best  team  be  
recognized as such?  

Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, One­Year Master's Degrees and Research Opportunities in the Social Sciences. 
The wide range of subjects includes:­Accounting and Finance • Actuarial Science • Busi­ness Studies • Economics • Econometrics • Economic History • European Studies • Geography • Government • Health Planning • Housing • Industrial Relations • International History • International Rela­tions • Law • Management Science • Operational Research • Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method • Population Studies • Politics • Regional and Urban Planning • Sea-Use Policy • Social Administration • Social Anthropology • Social Planning in Developing Countries • Social Work • Sociology • Social Psychol­ogy • Statistical and Mathematical Sciences • Systems Analysis • 
Application forms from: Admissions Registrar, Room 1o. L.S.E.. Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England, 

Join uator breMfMt. lunch, WMI dlnnlr... 
stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate. 

Brat A Bnw SpecW 100Center Mishawaka Mon.frl 7-4 
'3.2~ Saturday 8-9:30 
9-5
LSE 


The Observer Tuesday, November 11, 1986-page 10 

By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
Steady progress and dis­cipline in an area typically develop an athlete into a reli­able, competent individual both on and off the playing field. Joel Williams has fit that category well during his years at Notre Dame. 
And now that Williams, a 6-3, 234-pound tight end for the Irish, is rounding out his col­lege football career, he can pleasantly reminisce about more than just his playing days. 
"I wouldn't trade the experi­ence for anything," says Wil­liams, discussing his four years here. "The Notre Dame expe­rience is above and beyond anything that I expected, or that I could imagine. The people I've met since I've been here, the places I've visited, and the incredible national ex­posure never would have been possible almost anywhere else." 
The obvious progress that Williams has made has been at the starting tight end spot for Notre Dame. With nine recep­tions for 107 yards and three touchdowns, Williams looms as a vital cog in the recently electrified Irish offensive at­tack. He is excited about seeing the team get back in stride, and considers his primary objec­tive to do his part to get Notre Dame back into the top twenty at the end of the season. 
"Things were really frustrat­ing early," admits the senior from Gateway High School in 
Monroeville, Pennsylvania, "because we all realized that it wasn't really that the other teams were better than we were, but we were just finding ways to beat ourselves. Then we put our mind to eliminating the mistakes that were killing us, and we knew things would turn around." 
An intense player in practice with a genuine work ethic, Wil­liams is not often given to pat­ting himself on the back when it comes to his play. He ack­nowledges, however, that he's getting closer to realizing his potential. 
"Yeah, I am pretty hard on myself," says Williams. "But I honestly feel I'm getting bet­ter from game to game. By the end of the year I guess I'd like to be consistent in all facets of my game, and to be able to say that I fulfilled my role in the offense as well as I could have." 
Williams is looked up to by many of the younger members of the squad, especially the young tight ends. One person who has seen another type of progress Williams has made is tight end coach George Stewart. 
"In the last eleven months that I've worked with Joel," says Stewart, a former player and assistant coach under cur­rent Irish head coach Lou Holtz, "I've seen him mature in a lot more ways than as a 

Joel Williams 

. player. He's matured as a young man, taking on the lead­ership role that comes with being a senior on the Notre Dame football team. Joel has become much more open and willing to work with the kids coming up. He's the type that leads by encouragement and by example. Joel Williams is a class act. "In the last three weeks, Joel has made great progress in his overall game. His blocking has become outstanding and he caught a deflected touchdown pass against Navy. He's made a lot of big catches for us and 

I'm sure his intensity will only get higher down the stretch." 
Williams understands that the coaching this year has meant a major difference in the total attitude of the squad. 
"They're ingenious," says an admiring Williams when refer­ring to the Irish coaching staff. "The overall philosophy that came in with Coach Holtz is just night and day from last year. There's a continuous push that's totally positive. We know 
that we can play, and we know that we're going to beat a lot of people, and even a lot that may have more talent than us. Coach Stewart is phenomenal. He's a great coach and a great teacher, just like Coach Holtz. The motivation and drive are always there. 
"The future of this team with Holtz here is going to be remarkable. I am really happy to be part of the foundation of what's to come, but I sincerely wish I had one more year to play. Believe me, things look good for the next few years." 
The more immediate future is much higher on Williams' list of priorities, however. Like this Saturday. 
"Everybody's pretty psyched for Penn State," says Williams. "How could we not be? They handled Alabama pretty well, so a win over Penn State could probably be consid­ered a season high point. We knew we needed a big game against SMU going into this week and we got it, so I guess we'll just see what happens." 


Dolphins beaten again 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Second-year quarterback Bernie Kosar passed for a career-high 401 yards last night and overcame three dropped touchdown passes by Cleveland receivers to direct the Browns to a 26-16 victory over the Miami Dol­phins. 
Kosar completed 32 of 50 passes without an interception -and without a touchdown pass. His pinpoint passing, however, set up four short Matt Bahr field goals and touchdown runs of 16 yards by Harry Holt and 13 yards by Curtis Dickey. 
The 22-year-old quarterback had never before thrown for more than 300 yards in a game. His previous best was a 293­yard performance in a loss to the Cincinnati Bengals in Sep­tember. 
The Browns, who improved to 7-3 after their sixth victory in the last seven games, lead the Cincinnati Bengals by a game in the AFC Central Divi­sion. 
Cleveland led only 16-10 at halftime despite dominating the half statistically, outgain­ing the Dolphins 351 yards to 176 yards. The Browns finished with 558 yards. 
SAB presents--------+­JERRYFALWELL 
Thursday, Nov. 13 7:00pm 
Reserved seating-FREE ticket distributed at the Washington Hall Ticket Office 
Wed., Nov. 12 and Thurs., Nov.13 
12-6:00pm 
ND /SMC student, facultv or staff ID required-one ticket er ID. 
BRUCE 
IS
s!~c~ss~al" HERE 
Announcing 500 Compact Disks! Almost all at only $13_99 
Blank tape: Maxell XL1190: $20/10 TDK SA90: $20/1 0 
Most albums & cassettes: $6_98 

This holidayseaiDn, get the"Write Stuff' at the rightprice. 
Now you can get the competitive edge when classes begin in january. With a Macintosh'" personal computer. and all the urite extras. 
We call it the Macintosh ""Write Stuff" bundle. You'll call it a great deal' Because when vou buv a Macintosh ""Write Stuff" bundl~ befor~ january 9. 1987. you'll receive a bundle of extras-and save $250. 
Not only will you get your choice of a Macintosh SI2K Enhanced or a Macintosh Plus. you'll also get an Image Writer'" II printer, the perfect solution for producing near letter-quality term papers or reports. complete with graphs. charts, and illustrations. 
thesaurus. medical or legal dictionaries. Together with your favorite ~lacintosh word processing software. you can transform vour notes into the clearest. most letter rerfect papers you ever turned out. And turned in on time. 
What's more. there·s a Macintosh Support Kit filled with valuable accessories and computer care products from 3M* Complete with all the things you need to keep your ~lacintosh running long after you·ve graduated. 
Let us show you how to get through college better. faster. and smarter. Stop in and see us for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~~4tJiltt~t~........................................................T.u.es•d•a•y,•N•o•v•e•m•b•er•1•1•,•19•86---p•a•g•e..
ll 
Bloom County 
SOI?KY. I-I'M XK'!(Y }W;t('t R/5{ 
rm t.IITE. I1EIII?tfN6. IEKt'S 1lJfJAY5 W£ Cf/T }17(/ COMIC. TWIIY. 
I I 
Beer Nuts 
A fEW ORE0'5, SOME
aJR Ua?O NOW TAK£5 TO 771£ 
HAWAIIAN PIJNOI, AND TWO
NICAf<AWAN COUNTRY5/Pf IN 
MIW180" SQUIRT GUNS,

SEARCH OF fRf£/)jH -FULLY 
[.QUIPPED W/Tn FOOP, VR.INK, 
ACTIJALLY. ~ 

ANO MiliTARY 5UPfU£5 FOR 
Campus 
8:00a.m. -11:30 p.m.: Exhibit: The Peace Ribbon, display at CSC for A Call to Peacemaking Week 
12:15 p.m.: 15-minute prayer service, A Call to Peacemaking Week, CSC chapel 
3:00 -6:00 p.m.: "Carnival of Careers," sponsored by the Saint Mary's Career Counseling Department and Student Gov­ernment, Angela Athletic Facility 
3:30 p.m.: Civil Engineering Graduate Seminar, "Application of Surface Science Techniques to the Design of More Effec­tive Catalysts for NOx Decomposition," by Dr. Richard Masel, University of 11­linios. Urbana. 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
4:00p.m.: Theology Department Abrams Chair in Jewish Studies Distinguished Lec­turer Series, "The Writer/Artist Agaist the World," by Dr. Chaim Potok, CCE Auditorium 
4:30 p.m.: Nieuwland Lectureship in Bio­logical Sciences, "T-Cell Receptors and Sequencing The Human Genome," by Dr. Leroy Hood, 283 Galvin Life Sciences Cen­ter 4:30p.m.: ND Finance Club Financial In­stitution Series Lecture, "Insurance-an Industry in Transition" by John Maginn, CFA, executive vice president and trea­surer, Mutual of Omaha Insurance Com­pany and United of Omaha Life Insurance Company. Hayes-Healy Auditorium 
5:15p.m.: Mass for Peace, Celebrant Fa­ther Edward Malloy, Sacred Heart Church 7:00p.m.: Meeting, Spanish Club, Center for Social Concerns 7:00p.m.: Presentation1'eception for any CAPP, MIS or MCC senior interested in interviewing with Heller Financial, Alumni Room,· Morris Inn 7:30p.m.: Kellogg Institute, Departments of Anthropology and Communication and Theatre Latin American Film Series "Hour of Furnaces (Part 1 only)," 1968, B-W, 95 minutes, Fernando Solanas and Octavio Getino, Argentina, Annenberg Auditorium 
7:30p.m.: Program of Liberal Studies and Friends of the Notre Dame Library Fac­ulty Forum on John Henry Newman: His Life and Work, an audiovisual presenta­tion with commentary by Michael True, Assumption College, Library Faculty Lounge 
7:30p.m.: Monkees Concert, $14 all seats, ACC 
8:00p.m.: Presentation1'eception for any senior interested in career opportunities with Westvaco Corporation, Senior Alumni Club 
9:00 p.m.: Movie, "Rebel Without a Cause", Carroll Hall, $1 donation for United Way 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 
Roast Breast of Turkey Beef Stew over Biscuit Russian Vegetable Pie Bierwurst Sandwich on Rye 
Saint Mary's 
Baked Meatloaf with Gravy Turkey with Dumplings Broccoli Cheese Potato Deli Bar 
Far Side Gary Larson 

"So, Carl -aHacked by any giant carrots lately?" 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Grain beards 5 Old poetry 
collection 
9 Total 14 Place 15 Soviet city 16 Rope loop 17 Whimper 18 Peeress 20 Anoint old 
style 22 Unsupported 
statement 23 However 24 Most recent 26 Gun org. 28 Loadstone 30 Day times 35 Ocean: abbr. 36 Soviet prefix 38-mater 39 Passage 41 Candy 44 "A-clock 
scholar" 45 Feudal lord 47 Arthur of TV 48 A calming 51 Start a 

paragraph 8 Associate 53 Garment border 9 Never donned 54 Wood covering 10 In addition 56-Na Na 11 Burial 59 Ground orchid monument 
tubers 12 Jacob's twin 61 Beauty,parlor 13 Landlord's 64 Black magic income 67 San-19 Thrall of yore 68 In profusion 21 Spouted 69 Sioux tribe pitchers 70 Fertility 25 Small case 
goddess 27 Verdi opera 71 lt. food 28 Dillon and Helm 
LACTEIJ_"'Jl~l"'''
72 High fliers 29 Up-(held 
A C H E S I G 0 R E D G E 
73 Ancient Roman at bay) 
S T E M S F 0 R E A L A R 
fortress city 31 Viva-
H A W S E T A S S M E D E 
32 Myriad 
DOWN 33 Inexperienced 11/11/86 1 Singer Gluck 34 Muslim prayer 49 Desert 57 Queen of 2 Vienna to a 37 Fr. city ironwood heaven 
German 40 Webster or 50 Moslem priest 58 Galatea's love 3 Northeast US Beery 52 Affectionate 60 Asian land 4Gium 42 Anti: dial. address 62 Leave out 5 Very long time 43 Coty and 55 Disney 63 Proboscis 6 Slag Lacoste attraction 65 Nonsense 7 Argues 46 Contrives 56 Easy chore 66 Word of assent 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved· 
EX • Ml M•• 'I
s Ep • L
P E R U A L 0 E 
0 N E T 0 
IRAE SLEY 
FOAILS 
c o N N ofJ ~!II'S P 
o u s I E Is 
RG­
-SWE~ •o 
B U TIT E R E p I 
T HIE 
T S 
0 T OlE SM 
A S 
H.A 
R T 
L I 
A R MA
P L E I S 
E E 
A L s• 
N E S 
IC E N T 
FA 
S E T T I NG~ 
S M ElL 
T S 
NT. T 0 N I 
-0 
c-
Attention Saint Mary's students 
If you are interested in working for The Observer contact Margie Kersten at 284 5230 


Tuesday, November 11, 1986 -page 12 
Ih football finals set after lopsided semis 
By KEVIN MCCORMACK ing defense and a controlled Sports Writer passing game, behind the ca­pable arm of Al Martin, The stage is set. Stanford was in control from Almost two months of Sun­start to finish. It wasn't until 
day afternoon Inter hall football late in the first half, however, have passed, and there are now that they got on the board, as two. After handily dispensing Martin tossed a 25-yard pass to their semi-final opponents, un­Chris Tomko with three defeated and seemingly un­minutes remaining. beatable Stanford will contest Stanford and Martin went a hot, upstart Flanner team in back to work iri the second half, the Interhall championship at this time with Martin connect­Notre Dame Stadium on Sun­ing with Jay Landry on a 10­day. yard pass in the endzone, 
Coming into last Sunday's making the score 14-0. Howard playoff match against Howard, didn't help their causes any Stanford appeared as if it either, when late in the game might suffer from a letdown. Marvin Long__ picked off a This was not to be the case, Howard pass, with the aid of a however, despite the fact that Pat Muhlberger deflection, and Stanford was coming off two galloped across the goal line to victories in which the com­account for the final 21-0 mar­bined scores tallied 52-0. gain. Howard appeared to be a tough The Stanford defense com­obstacle as well, riding a very pletely shut down Howard's at­respectable four-game winning tack, as evidenced by the fact streak. But Stanford was tough that Howard had one first down 
The lnterhall football finals are set, with Flanner and to the task, dumping Howard the whole game. 
Stanford ready to battle for the championship this 21-0. 
see TITLE, page 8 
Combined with an unrelent­

Women's swimming team takes Notre Dame Relays 
By THERESA KELLY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's swim team looked very impres­sive Friday at the Notre Dame Relays at Rolf's Aquatic Cen­ter. Coach Tim Welsh's young Irish swimmers won the all­relay meet by tallying 200 points, outscoring Valparaiso, who finished second with 178 points. 
Filling out the field were third place University of Illi­nois at Chicago with 170 points, Saint Mary's and Marquette (both with 106 points), and North Central (62 points). 

Coach Welsh said he was very pleased with the team's performance. 
"A goal we set this season was to win at least one meet we didn't win last year," he said. 
The Irish, who finished second in last year's Notre Dame Relays, have accom­plished that goal early in their season. 
The Notre Dame team won seven races Friday, setting two meet records. The foursome of P.J. Amberg, Margaret Cof­fman, Beth Genega and Amy Darlington set a mark of 
1:44.37 in the 200 yard freestyle relay. A record of 4:23.73 was set by Kathy Quirk, Betsy Baker, Annette Quill and Mary Acampora in the 400 yard med­ley. 
The Irish placed first in the 800 yard freestyle, 400 yard In­termediate, 400 yard butterfly, 400 yard backkstroke, and 400 yard breaststroke. 
Welsh praised his team's ef­forts. "Not only did we win, but we 
won the right way," said Welsh, referring to success­fully placing swimmers in new events to determine the flexibility, depth, and strength of the women's team. 
"We learned a lot. It was great to learn as much as we did and still be able to win the meet." 
"The girls were intelligent, enthusiastic and aggressive about this meet,'' Welsh contin­ued. "I hope to see that attitude over and over this season." 
A strong performance in an event such as the Notre Dame Relays is a good indicatiOn of the depth and flexibility of the team. This year's team was depleted by graduation, injury and foreign study programs, but the young talent coming in is making its mark on this year's results. The future of the Irish swim team looks bright. 
The next meet for the Irish will be against Northern Mic­higan at Ferris State. Notre Dame and Northern Michigan tied for third last year at the Midwestern Invitational, so the competition should be tough again this year. 
College Football needs playoffs to determine champion 
Just a couple of days into the year 1987, the na­tional champion of the college football world will be crowned by a panel of sportswriters from the Associated Press. 
There are other polls, but the AP's weekly rankings of the country's college football powers is generally accepted as the poll which determines the top college football team after the New Year's Day bowls have been played. 
But is that what it really does? Can a poll of sportswriters genuinely say that one team is more deserving of college football's highest honor than another, especially in a case where more than one team is undefeated? 
These are questions which always seem to sur­face around this time of the year, when the days grow cold and the football season on the campuses starts to wind down. People start contemplating which teams will go to which bowls, which ones will be home for Christmas dinner, which ones have a shot at the national championship, and, of course, people will debate over the plausibility of a playoff system to determine the number-one school. 
This latter question is an interesting one, and one which should be given serious consideration in light of some of the controversies in previous years. I believe a playoff system is necessary in the ranks of college football -as it seems to be one of the only major sports where the champion is not actually determined on the field. 
The College Football Association has a long­range planning committee currently studying the issue, and there appears to be at least some sup­port for the playoff proposal in the NCAA offices. 
"We'd like it," said Jerry A. Miles, the director of men's championships for the NCAA. "We have championships in all other sports, including s\lc­cessful Division 1-AA football playoffs." 

Marty Strasen 
Assistant Sports Editor 

I had never really given the issue much thought until the 1984 season. The final poll was always something of a tradition -something you took for granted as going hand-in-hand with college foot­ball. 
In 1984, however, I felt Washington was robbed of the chance to win the national championship by the present bowl system. 
In an Orange Bowl match-up against Oklahoma, the Huskies pulled out a 28-17 victory over the Sooners to finish the season with one blemish on their record. Meanwhile, eventual national cham­pion Brigham Young (whose schedule wasn't nearly as difficult as those of either of the Orange Bowl participants), earned an automatic bid to the Holiday Bowl by winning the West-Coast Ath­letic Conference championship. 
The Cougars barely managed to come back and edge Michigan -a team which finished 6-5 in the regular season -in that game. 
The national champion? BYU, of course, by virtue of a "perfect" season. I'm not saying that the Cougars were not a good football team in 1984 -obviously they were. But put BYU against Wash­
ington or Oklahoma in a major bowl, and my 
money is on the Huskies or the Sooners. 
I guess the Huskies will just have to live with the fact that they might have been the best team in the nation in 1984. 
Were the 1986 season to end today, four teams would remain without a loss -Miami (8-0), Mic­higan (8-0), Penn State (8-0) and Arizona State (7-0-1). Arizona State, and perhaps Michigan as well, will be playing in the Rose Bowl, while Miami and Penn State, should they remain undefeated, probably would play each other. 
That means there could very easily be two un­defeated teams after the New Year's Day bowls are played, and one team will have to settle for second place after a perfect season. 
In what other sport can you go all the way through the regular and post seasons without a loss, yet still wind up the loser in the end? 
Financially, a playoff schedule makes all the sense in the world. A college football title game would probably rake in over $10 million in a TV­rights fee, while two semifinal games could add another $5 million apiece. · 
I think a four-team playoff would be the most logical set-up, so that the champion would be •. decided after only two weeks, and so it could be played within the time set aside for Christmas holidays by most universities. This way, missed classes and academic drawbacks would not pose a problem. The rest of the bowls could be played on New Year's day, as usual. 
see PLAYOFFS, page 9 




