

Dugan remarks -page 3 

Vol. XX No. 104 Tuesday, March 4, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Students petition for new proposal 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
A petition to revise the student government constitution different­ly from the proposal being voted on today was presented at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
The petition, signed by more than I ,300 students, could be adopted if today's proposed con­stitution fails and Ombudsman validates the petition's signatures. 
The constitution proposed last night would eliminate the senate as a government body, giving most of its duties to the Hall Presidents' Council. Five senators would be re­tained, however, and would con­tinue to serve as members of the Campus Life Council. 
The latest proposed constitution could be adopted by a two-thirds vote of the student body, senate or HPC. 
The proposal originally was brought to the senate as an amend­ment to the proposed constitution on the ballot today by former Judicial Council member Laura McKnight. 
If the proposal had been ac­cepted by the senate, today's ballot may have been changed to reflect the amendments, according to Stu­dent Senator K.C. Culum, speak­ing after last night's meeting. The proposal also could have been taken off the ballot and sent to the HPC for adoption, he said. 
During the meeting, however, Freshman Advisory Council Presi­dent Patrick Cook pointed out that the petition states that if adopted, last night's proposed constitution would replace the existing con­stitution, and not the one being voted on today. 
Thus, if the proposed con­stitution on the ballot today is adopted, last night's proposal would be invalidated because it amends the existing constitution, which would have been replaced by the vote to adopt the new con­stitution. 
The proposal also could be in­validated if Ombudsman voids some of the petition's 1,307 signatures, a figure which represents 18 percent of the undergraduate student body, accor­ding to Student Activities Board Manager Lee Broussard. 
Only 15 percent is required to propose an amendment under the current constitution. Although the proposal brought by McKnight would keep this requirement, other procedures for amending the con­stitution would be changed. 
Under last night's proposal, an 
see PETITION, page 4 



<' 
APP'IIoco 

position to the Anglo-Irish accord. At least ten persons were injured in addition to the property damaged by fires. 
origniated because of a proposal by liberal arts college for women and 

ND election voting underway 
By LYNNE R. STRAND Student can vote today in Staff Reporter their residence halls from II :30 to I :30 and 4:30 to 6:30. Off­Today Notre Dame students campus students can vote at the 
will elect their 1986-87 student 
Ombudsman· desk in LaFortune body president and vice presi­Student Center from 12 to 5. dent. Besides the presidential race, All Notre Dame students will vote on a referen­undergraduates are eligible to 
dum calling for a new student vote. government constitution and a A run-off election will be held referendum calling for the Thursday if no candidate 
University to divest from com­receives 50 percent of the vote panies doing business in South plus one vote today, according Africa. to Tom Brennan, Ombudsman 
The seven presidential tickets election officer. indude Jim Domagalski and Laurie Bink, Tom Grier and This year's Ombudsman Elec­Steve Guenther, Bruce Lohman tion Committee includes Bren­
and Jim Crandall, Mike Millen nan, the chariman, Daniel and Sheila O'Connor, Mike Gamache, Laurie Holderhead, Switek and Don Monanaro, Lisa Macalka, Patrick Murphy, Mike Torkelson and John and Alison Pivonka. Ex-officio Kromer, and John Walsh and members are Maher Mouasher Pat Walsh. and David Stephenitch. 

College Faculty Assembly approves divestment resolution 
By ELLYN MAST AKO a relatively small number of the apartheid destro) ; the unity of the College; supports divestment. Senior StaffReporter faculty." black family; and apartheid ex­"Be it resolved that the Faculty Although he wasn't present at the After discussion of both sides of cludes black women from par­Assembly recommend to the Board meeting, Anthony Black, associate 
The Saint Mary's Faculty the issue a vot was taken. "The ticipation in the economy; and the of Regents that they take steps to professor of history, disagrees with Assembly approved a resolution resolution passed by a near racial injustice of apartheid since drop from our investment portfolio the referendum. last week proposing that the Col­unamimous count. While we had a the Second World War has been those corporations who have "I'm certainly opposed to apar­
lege divest from all companies with quorum (40 percent), only about maintained and automated by holdings in South Africa, unless theid, but from an historical holdings in South Africa. half of the members of the faculty United States investments; and the they disinvest from their South perspective, divestment isn't the Nicholas Meyerhofer, assistant assembly were present," South African Council of Chur­African holdings within the next six answer. If you divest, you have no 
professor of modern languages, Meyerhofer said. ches, on July 4, 1985, called for months. leverage at all in the country," said and chairman of the faculty The resolution reads: "Whereas disinvestment; and continued in­This resolution will now be sent Black. assembly said, "The referendum Saint Mary's College is a Catholic vestment in South Africa is incon­to the office of the College presi­
see DIVEST, page 4 sistent with the principles of the dent. "This means that the faculty 

Reagan asks Congress for $100 million to support Nicaraguan anti-communists 
Associated Press 
Schultz outlined the stakes in House vote is expected in about two 
WASHINGTON -President Nicaragua in similar terms during a weeks. REagan called on Congress yester­speech to the Veterans of Foreign He said the rebel Contras need day to support $100 million in Wars. more than humanitarian aid to con­assitance to anti-communist rebles If the United States fails to back front the helicopters and tanks now in Nicaragua, saying those who the Contras, "our worry will then in the Sandinista arsenal. Because resist will be held "fully accoun­be a Soviet and Cuban base on the of congressional opposition, the table by history." mainland of Latin America, and United States has not provided any 
Reagan said if the Sandinista regime whose consolidated power military assistance to the Contras government achieves final victory, will allow it to spread subversion since the spring of $984. it would "open up the possibility of and terrorism throughout the In his speech to the war veterans, Soviet military bases on America's hemisphere," Schultz said. Shultz said the alternative to doorstep, threaten the security of Reagan said if Congress rejects democratic rule in Nicaragua is a the Panama Canal and inaugurate his request for $70 million in direct Latin America comprised of ''two, a vast migration march to the military assistance and $30 million three, many Nicaraguas a United States by hundreds of thou­in non-lethal humanitarian aid, it hemisphere of burning churches, sands of refugees." would mean, "consolidation of a suppressed newspapers and crushed 
The president issued his state­privileged sanctuary for terrorists opposition." ment in the Cabinet Room as he and subversives just two days' driv­Later, Elliot Abrams, assistant was flanked by the top leadership ing time from Harlingen, Texas." secretary of state for Inter­of the resistance forces, known as U.S. assistance to the Contras American Affairs, predicted that if the Contras, and by more than two now is limited to $27 million in the Contras receive full funding dozen U.S. business supporters of non-lethal aid, which expires at the from the Congress, the administra­the rebel cause. end of March. Reagan is asking tion will have achieved its objec­
Reagan spoke a few hours after Congress to approve around $100 tives in Nicaragua in about three Secretary of State George P. million over the next 18 months. A years. 
..-------------~--~----~-­
The Observer Tuesday, March 4, 1986-page 2 



In Brief 
The Saint Mary's freshman who had given birth to a stillborn baby in LeMans Hall early Friday is expected to be released from Memorial Hospital later this week, according to St. Joseph County Coroner Louis Grwinski. "I saw her yesterday and she was still in a state of shock," Grwinski said. "This was quite traumatic for her. . . she's still suffering from psychological shock." The infant's body was found in the dormitory bathroom, but Grwinski said he had spoken with the county prosecutor and that no charges would be filed against the mother of the child. ­
The Observer 
Of Interest 
Mandatory meetings for students who wish to run for the Student Senate and class offices will be held tomorrow night. Senator candidates must meet at 7 and class officer can­didates must meet at 8 in Room 118 Nieuwland Hall. At last night's informational meeting for senator candidates and class of­ficer candidates, Ombudsman Election Officer Tom Brennan discussed the schedules of dates and deadlines for the upcoming races. He also discussed the official election rules. Campaigning begins March 12 and ends March 17. Elections will be held March 18 and run-offs will be held March 20 if necessary. -The Observer 
That's Entertainment will feature Irish singer John Tyler tonight from 9 to 11 at the Chameleon Room of the Haggar College Center at Saint Mary's. Admission is free and free food will be served. -The Observer 
A representative from the Apostolic Volunteer Pro­gram will be on campus today from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the library concourse. After 3 p.m. the representative will be at the Center for Social Concerns. -the Observer 
All undergraduates who plan to enroll for the 1986­87 fall semester must advance enroll by March 5. The advance enrollment card must be returned along with a $100 deposit. The card should be turned into the Student Accounts office, 102 Ad­ministration Building, or mailed to Box T, Notre Dame Ind., 46556. A $20 fine will be charged if the card is not returned by March 5. -The Observer 
The department of music announces the Notre Dame Chorale and Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra in concert. The concert will take place tonight at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. The Chorale, accompanied by the Chamber Orchestra, will per­form Mozart's Solemn Vespers and the Ave Verum Corpus. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Mary E. DePauw, counseling and career develop­ment director at Saint Mary's, will discuss the book "In a Different Voice" by Carol Gilligan from 12:15 to 1 p.m. tomorrow in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. The presentation is part of the "Spiritual Roots" program offered by the College's Center for Spirituality. The review is open to the public and free of charge. ­
The Observer 
Jacob Neusner, Univ~rsit· ·ofessor and Ungerleider Distinguished Scholar of Judaic studit. .• Brown University, will give a lecture titled ''The Theological Enemies of Religious Studies: Theology and Secularism in the Trivialization and Personalization of Religion in the West," tonight at 8 in the Center for Continuing Education. -The Observer 
The Fighting Irish Toastmasters Club will 
meet tonight at 7:30 in Room 223 of Hayes-Healy. Officer elec­tions will be held. -The Observer 

Weather 
Boring, boring, boring. Partly 
cloudy today with highs from 35 to 40. A 20 percent chance of light snow late tonight with lows near 20. A 30 percent chance of snow tomorrow with highs near 35. 


The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be amended as soon as possible. 
The Observer( l'SPS ~99 l-~000) i• published Monday through fnday ext·ept durin!( exam and vacauon jXrioili The OI>M:rver is published hy the students oft he l"ni\"t'rsll\ of Noue Dame and Saini Mary's College. Subscription• may he purchased for SW flt'~ year (SlOper semester) by writing The Observer. P.O Box Q. :"<>Ire Dame. Indiana 
~6~~6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction ri!(hl• are 
rt!srrvr-d. 

Saint Mary's must develop new growth in Hickey era 

With the appointmeilt of William Hickey as the ninth president at Saint Mary's, it is conceivable to view the transition as the ending of one era of growth and the beginning of another era for the College. 
Unde~former President John Duggan, Saint Mary's saw .the building of a $7 million library, and tne :u million Angela Athletic Facility. An additional $1.3 
million was spent renovating the Alumnae Centennial Library into the Haggar College Center, and last but not least, the endowment was raised from $3 million to $6 million -the largest among Catholic women's colleges. 
Duggan's tenure saw tremendous financial growth for the College. Alumnae contributions and other donations made the renovations and building con­struction possible. EXCEL: The Fund for Saint Mary's college, begun last year, helped to finance the renovations and addition to the Science Hall, now nearing completion. A phone-mail room, installed in the Haggar Center and staffed mostly by students, in­sures that alumnae donations keep coming in. 
It seems safe to say that the College is financially solvent. 
Now it is time for a new type of growth at Saint Mary's. With the College's financial stability, the time is right for other concerns to be addressed. 
Two of these concerns were posed to Hickey during the press conference Friday morning, announcing his appointment. The first, minority enrollment, did not seem to meet with an enthusiastic response from the College's new president. According to Hickey, although they are now "recruiting highly" in minority high schools, Saint Mary's has trouble attracting minorities when the students discover how few minority professors and students are currently at the College. 
Hickey also said the College has ''to feel it's impor­tant to have minority students and then provide sup­port services for them." 
This answer seems rather disturbing for advocates of higher minority enrollment at the school. Hopeful­ly the College has already determined that it certainly is important to diversify the student body, and they won't let excuses like few current minorities on cam­pus stop their efforts at recruitment. 
Saint Mary's will only attract minorities if it wants to do so, and that does not include offering specific "Support services." However, the administration's at­titude at this time seems hesitant and a bit unwilling to put forth the effort needed for effective minority recruitment. 

Another issue that Hickey addressed during the press conference was divestment, specifically Saint Mary's divestment from current holdings in South Africa. Hickey pointed out that divestment would not be that financially significant, since a small amount of Saint Mary's investments are in South Africa. Hickey said the investment committee of the Board of Regents would take up the question of divestment dur­ing its spring meeting in April. 
An important consideration for that committee should be the approval of a resolution last Tuesday by Saint Mary's Faculty Assembly. The resolution pro­posed divestment by the College and passed by an oral vote of the assembly. 
This is a significant statement by a major con­stituent of the College community. The Board of Regents should not ignore the determination of the Assembly that divestment is an important and wor­thwhile step for the College to consider. 
While officials can continue to debate whether divestment is the appropriate step for Saint Mary's to take right now, apartheid continues to plague the blacks of South Africa. More delay by institutions such as Saint Mary's will only mean inaction while the number of persecuted and murdered blacks grows. 
These two issues of minority enrollment and divest­ment certainly are not foreign to each other. Saint Mary's has been a leader at educating students on such issues, as well as concentrating on student needs and concerns. 
Now, at a time of stability, it is time for the college to extend that concern outside the community. Minority students would add to, and diversify the stu­dent body. Divestment would show the College places a high priority on the quality of life -within and far from campus. 
These issues are important ones that can extend beyond campus, and ones whose time has come for the College. They are also issues that will undoubtedly become prevalent early in the administration of Saint Mary's new president. 
DltN(IIG AND DRIVWG CAN KU. A FRIENDSHII 



ANTI-VIOLENCE VOLUNTEERS Center for Non-Violence Education seeking full-time staff. Lodging, $150/mo., & health coverage. Public interest research and publishing on aggression, developing courses on nonviolence and operating National Coalition on Television Violence (TV, films, war toys, sports, etc.). Next to University of Illinois. One year commitment with$1500 separation stipend. Student leans deferrable 217-384-1920. Resume to Thomas Radecki, M.D., Box 2157, Champaign IL 61820. 
Be Stylish 

The Student Activities Board Presents .. Sophmoro Literary Festival 
1986 

Authors are holding workshops at the following times and dates: 
N. Scott Mom a day, Monday March 3 9:00am Alan Dugan, Tuesday March 4 2:15pm Lore Segal, Wednesday March 51 2:15pm 
... be Irish 

Ronald Sukenick, Thursday March 612:15pm
in magical 
IRISH KNITS 

Clayton Eshleman, Friday March 712:15pm
from BLARNEY CASTLE 
Payable to Kate's Maclc In check, 

Robert Cormies, Saturday March 8 11:00 am 
money order, Visa or MasterCard 
Phone orders: 1·800·217·8400 E11t. 17 
A. Skisweater. 100% pure wool in green and cream with shamrock design. 5~5.00 
B. Crewn~ck "Ireland" sweater. 100'\. soft acrylic in kelly green1wh1te lettering 534.00 
C. Crewneck. shamrock design knitted into 100% wool in emerald Q.reen. $55.00 
''"'' M,•n 'M I XI 
·--·... --\\unll'nX~O..,M[
"'' .... "'" -~ "'"''"''\

I l I I !
...,_..&•1nprrolf"llll
. < ~ 
.~ '" '" ,,1,, fOfAl ___.
1 
'·'"" 
"'"" . . .. 
,,, ...,,,,,,. ftbU 10: K.te:S M.lc, P.O. Bm: 10325. Chle1110, IL 60610-0325 
*************** 

The Observer 
Tuesday, March 4, 1986-page 3 



Dugan poems highlight problems associated with everyday existence 
By MARK MELLETT 
News Staff 
"Any flowers that have their own spring, are all right for me.... " recited poet Alan Dugan at the third presentation of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
Dugan, winner of both a Na­tional Book Award and a Pulitzer Prize, appeared last night at the Library Auditorium. 
Dugan's readings examined the problems of everyday American life. He brought unsentimental irony and a low-keyed humor to the stage, as well as a personality that was quite unexpected. "Don't call a woman an ox," recited Dugan in one of his quaint poems. 
Speaking in a slow, expres­sionless manner, and twice taking swigs from a small bottle produced fom his sports jacket, Dugan drew 

Correction 
Because C:r a production error, part of a sentence in Mike Switek's speech was inadvertantly deleted in yesterday's student body president debate story. The correct quote should read, "We think the Hall Presidents' Council should have more power on campus, while the (student body) president and vice president make more speeches like the kind and queen of England." 
The name of Switek's running mate, Don Monanaro, was mispell­ed also due to a production error. 
the laughs of the crowd. "I'm dif­
ferent  from  what  the  introducer  
said," stated Dugan.  
Dugan's  recitations  ranged  in  

subject from Macedonia to Nicaragua, from flowers to flirting butterflies, in language often described as coarse and concise. During a poem that described moths having intercourse, Dugan said, "watching others in passion is strictly for biologists." 
Dugan became temporarily disoriented in the first lines of his opening poem and on two other oc­casions. In a poem about a con­stellation, he misplaced the follow sheet which held the second part of lines. 
Occasionally commenting on the coughing that came from the au­dience, Dugan said, "I've heard a lot of coughing. That sounds like inattention." Dugan later asked, "Am I boring you?" to which the crowd answered simultaneously 
"no~" 
Questioning the values upheld by society, Dugan, whose manner is described as straightforward and open, challenged the listeners to look at their own views of life. "So that's what's happening someplace else, so here's the opposite," recited Dugan in a poem. 
Dugan is presently a staff member for Poetry at the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, Mass. His first anthology, "Poems," published in 1961, receiv­ed both a National Book Award and a Pulitzer Prize. Dugan's works also have been published in 
magazines such  as  "The  New  
Yorker,"  "Atlan tic"  and  
"Harper's."  


AI' Photo 


Capitalizing on victory 
Zeneida Albano holds T-shirts, displaying caricatures of new Philippine President Corazon Aquino and her late husband Benigno, before a Mass of Thanksgiving for the new government held in Honolulu recently. 


'Driver's service' among SMC discussion 
By PEGGY PROSSER 
Staff Reporter 
Anne Marie Kollman held her last meeting as student body presi­dent at a joint meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Governance and Programming Board last night. 
After the boards discussed cur­rent issues, Kollman took ideas from the board members for the in­coming student government ad­ministration. 
The Saint Mary's Programming Board will sponsor a "driver ser­vice" from area bars and parties on 
Saint Patrick's Day, Programming


• 


(today in your dorm) (off-campus in LaFortune) 
~-----student 


Board President Jeanne Heller said. She said the service will be ofc fered from 8 p.m. to 2 a:m. 
The service will take any Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student back to campus from area bars, Campus View Apartments and Saint Louis Street parties. It will not, however, be used to deliver students to bars and parties, Heller said. 
"We're not promoting going out, we're promoting not driving," Heller said. 
The Christian Life proposal has been accepted by Campus Ministry, said Kollman. 
Changes made include a campus ministry commissioner on the Board of Governance, replacing the current Christian Life Commis­sioner position. Also, there will be no Christian Life Commissioner on hall or class councils, Kollman said. 
Campus Ministry has requested a service commissioner to act as a liason between itself and the board. 
It was announced that students will be charged admission for both the Steinem lecture and Schlafly­Weddington debate. A definite ad­mission price will be announced later. It was previously reported that both lectures would be free to students. 
The Steinem lecture will be on a first come, first serve basis, as almost 2,000 people are expected to attend. The lecture will be held in the Angela athletic Facility, to ac­comodate the crowd, according to the lecture spokesperson. 
In other business, Regina presi­dent Mary Flynn proposed that minority problems on campus be addressed by the new administra­tion, who will take office after spir­spring break. 

SMC Student Government Commissioner Applications due TODAY! March 4 
Remember to sign up for interview at HCC desk and ... 
STEP INTO STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
(today in your dorms) (off-campus in LaFortune) 


! The Observer Tuesday, March 4, 1986 -page 4 





Petition 
continuedfrom page 1 
amendment could be adopted by a five-sixths vote of the HPC instead of the current requirement of a two-thirds vote. The student body would still be able to adopt an amendment by a two-thirds vote as 
stipulated stitution.  in  the  current  con- came the night before a scheduled vote on the senate's proposed con- proposed constitution. "It's my understanding from lots, and lots  Divest  
Most of the debate on last night's  stitution, several senators question- and  lots  of  sources  that  many  continued from page 1  
proposal centered around not the  ed the timing.  students are not satisfied with the  
proposal  itself,  but  on  rule  "I  feel  that  this  was  a  dirty  ballot question as  it now  stands,"  "We're just playing with words in  
technicalities.  The  meeting  was  eleventh-hour backroom try," said  she added.  the referendum. If you carry their  
delayed  several  times  while  Student Senator Jim Hagan after  In other senate business, a pro- argument to ta logical conclusion  
"Robert's Rules of Order," a book  the meeting.  posal to allow candidates involved  then the College should return any  
on  parliamentry  procedure  was  During  the  meeting,  however,  in run-offs an additional campaign  · grants  from  companies  that  do  
consulted.  McKnight  said  students  had  not  allotment of $25 was defeated by a  business in South Africa," Black  
Because  last  night's  proposal  had the chance to  debate today's  9-4 vote, with two abstentions.  added.  

Tonight Show with Johnny Carso, The Merv Griffin Show An Evening at the lmprov. 
Saturday Night Live writer 9 appearances on David Lettermfln 
one ofAmerica's hottest comics! 

STEPAN CENTER MARCH8 Tickets available at the TicketStub for $4 Student Activities Board 7p.m. 
r 
r 
I f 
Ostrich Olympics 
In a special Florida Derby Day event held over the weekend, ostriches ran down the stretch at Gulfstream Park in Hallandale. It was a tough break for Dino Pileggi, after he was thrown from 


Two receive faculty endowments 
Special to The Observer 
Saint Mary's professors Ann Clark and JoAnn Widerquist have been selected to receive Lilly En­dowment Faculty Open Fellowships for the 1986-87 academic year. The fellowships, awarded to 10 faculty members from Indiana colleges and univer­sities, will allow them to take a sab­batical leave and pursue innovative work-study and research projects of their own design. 
A philosophy professor, Clark proposes to spend a year at the In­stitue for Food and Development Policy, coupling her interests in philosophy and women's issues. There, she will collaborate with author Francis Moore Lappe as a resource and discussion person for a text re-examining traditional American values. 
The institute is known not only for its specialization on food, but for its reflection on American values and its educational and research work on social justice pro­jects. In addition to her work with Lappe, Clark will work on pro­grams that will allow her to write and speak about philosophical in­sights in ethics, politics and 
APPhoto 

his bird. Neither ostrich nor jockey was injured in the mishap. Winner by a neck was "Big Bird" (shown at right). 
epistomology in a style which is not dependent upon technical academic language. 
A nursing professor, Widerquist has spent 33 years in the nursing profession, a career that has con­vinced her that nursing is a type of ministry. She has already practiced 
·nursing in clinical and classroom settings and now plans to spend her fellowship year studying one of the greatest role models in the nursing field, Florence Nightingale. 
Widerquist will travel in the United States and the United Kingdom, reading Nightengale's works and auditing liberal arts and theological courses. 


Goode, aides negligent in MOVE bombing 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Mayor W. Wilson Goode was "grossly negligent" in his handling of a con­frontation with the radical group MOVE that left 11 people dead, ac­cording to a report compiled by a commiSSIOn appointed by the mayor and leaked to reporters. 
Lawyer William Brown III, who headed thed 13-member commis­sion, yesterday sharply criticized the leak, saying that although published reports were correct, "what you have seen is not com­plete." 
"We do not expect the final ver­sion of these drafts to differ substantially from what has already been published," he said. 
Navy surgeon guilty of homicide in deaths 
WASHINGTON -Heart surgeon Donald M. Billig, convicted of in­voluntary manslaughter and homicide in the deaths of three pa­tients at Bethesda Naval Hospital, was sentenced yesterday to four years in prison and ordered dismissded from the service. 
The court-martial jury of nine navla officers also ordered billig, a Navy commander who served as chief of heart surgery at Bethesda, to forfeit all future pay and allowances. 
The jury foreman, Rear Adm. Harry S. Quast, read the sentence as Billig stood and showed no emo­tion. the jury had deliverated 90 minutes and could have returned a sentence of up to 115 years. 
Goode and his aides displayed "a reckless disregard for life and pro­perty" in planning and executing the May 13 siege on MOVE's for­tified headquarters, the report said. 
Five children and six adults died after a bomb dropped from a police helicopter started a fire that destroyed 61 homes and displaced hundreds of residents. 
"Dropping a bomb on an oc­cupied rowhouse was un­conscionable and should have been rejected out of hand by the mayor, the managing director, the police commissioner, and the fire com­missioner,~ the report said. "The plan to drop the bomb was reckless, ill-conceived and hastily approved." 
Defense attorneys said they 
would ask for a delay in imposing · the prison sentence, a request that under military law goes to the naval comand that convened the court­
martial. 

Billig was found guilty of two 
counts of involuntary 
manslaughter, one count of 
negligent homicide, and 18 counts 
of dereliction of duy stemming 
from operations in 1983 and 1984. 

Billig, nearly sightless in one eye, 
was found guilty last Thursday of 
causing the deaths through gross 
surgical errors during operations in 
1983 and 1984. 

Earlier yesterday, Billig pleaded 
for his freedom before the jury, 
saying the end of his career as a 
heart surgeon is "punishment of a 
severity I don't ever think I can 
describe." 





Accent 
Tuesday, March 4, 1986 -page 5 
Campus Ministry helps students to convert 
LESTER FLEMONS 
features writer 
Notre Dame is considered by many to be the most Catholic­oriented institution in the United States today. The University has always prided itself on a strong religious foundation based on the doctrines of the Catholic religion. But this tradition is not self­containing; even non-Catholics at Notre Dame are provided with a means to convert to Catholicism if they choose to do so. 
Under the direction of Father Andre Leveille, director of Univer­sity Ministry, an organization call­ed "Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults" regularly converts non­Catholics to Catholicism. Each September a group of men and women begin attending bi-weekly classes conducted by Leveille in an attempt to convert to the Catholic religion. 
"We are preparing them for the Catholic baptism," said Leveille. "Many of these individuals have never been to church, and therefore have never had a relationship with the Lord. We want to help them achieve that." 
Besides having a sincere desire to learn the Catholic doctrines and teachings, the student is required to attend classes every other Sunday, and must be interviewed by Leveille once or twice a semester to discuss the process of conversion. The reading of a catechism for adults with a sponsor is also required of the students and takes approx­imately one hour per week. 
"Some of the-students join, quite simply, because they want to find out whether or not they want to become Catholics," remarked Leveille. "They have found a home at a Catholic university and are strongly considering the Catholic religion." 
At some point during the pro­gram, the students are introduced to "The Steps in Becoming a Catholic," the first of which is the "Rite of Enrollment." Performed on the first Sunday of Lent, this ritual requires that the student, along with his sponsor, attend 
12: 15 Mass at Sacred Heart Church and afterward sign his name in the Sacred Book. 
The second step is the "Scrutinies" which is performed on the third Sunday of Lent, while the third step consists of the "Sacramental" which is, in effect, the baptism or profession of faith. Finally, the fourth step is quite simply the ongoing follow-up on the newly received faith. "These students are on their way, some a little further than others, but now they are ready to make a committ­ment, a profession of faith to a par­ticular religion," said Leveille. 
According to Leveille, students have given many reasons for wishing to become Catholics. Some experience faith by living at Notre Dame and interacting with room­mates. "There are always people ready to take a faith journey," con­tinued Leveille. "Being in a large Christian environment like Notre Dame just makes it easier." 
Several students currently par­ticipating in the program share Leveille's enthusiasm. Kathy Brom­meland, a sophomore in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters, considers the program to be a vital part of her religious growth. "It gives you a lot of insight into faith and the Catholic Church," she said. "If you're really serious about understanding the Catholic religion, the program can be very beneficial." 

Senior John Hines also said he believed the program is beneficial to the Notre Dame community. "There are people on this campus who have decided that they want to become Catholic," said Hines. "Father Leveille does a very good job of educating people on the Catholic doctrines. Notre Dame needs this type of program." 
As far as the term "conversion" is concerned, Leveille said a conver­sion to a particular religion is mere­ly the first step in an ongoing pro­cess. "I think that from the time we are born until the time we die we are converting closer and closer to God," said Leveille. "We should all 
be striving to become closer to the Heavenly Father." 
According to Leveille, it is im­portant that the individual come in tune with his own life. "Everyone goes through some type of conver­sion," concluded Leveille. "What distinguishes the people in this pro­gram is that their conversion is much more focused, which means that they have decided to join a church, a faith. that's a tremendous step." 



Poet spreads poetry over the airwaves 
KATHY MARTIN 
features staff writer 
Are there any aspiring poets out 
there in the turrets of Sorin or over 
the arches of Lyons or Howard? 
Whether you write poetry yourself, 
hide it away in a drawer, or just ad­
mire the works of the masters, 
Notre Dame's poet-in-residence 
Paul Roche has a radio program 
for you. 
"Words, Words, Words" ex­plores the use and appreciation of language in poetry and prose and is designed to bridge the gulf between people and poetry. The half-hour radio program began Feb. 4 and will continue until mid-May on WSND-FM (88.9) every Tuesday and Friday at 2 p.m. 

Roche begins each discussion with a reading of a well-known poem, and then concentrates on some aspect of language of both prose and poetry in order to clarify its nature and function in literature. He gives a "sentence quiz" in each program to be answered the following week. This usually deals with some common grammatical mistake in english or solecism. 
Every talk concentrates on a specific question. For example, is there an essential difference between poetry and prose? How should the design of a poem be pro­tected in the reading of dramatic verse? What are the primary ways to ruin poetry? There are also "how to" demonstrations, such as how to tell good poetry from bad, how to write a poem to order, how to create images and use them in self­hypnosis, and how Shakespeare turns a dime-store greeting card in­to a work of art. 
Roche has devoted the first series of the program to the works of such poets and writers as Shelley, Keats, Wilfred Owen, Sophocles, Wordsworth, Emily Dickinson, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Brown­ing, Hopkins, Eliot, Ogden Nash and Sappho. If the program is a success, Roche would like to pre­sent a second series which would in­clude the works of Blake, Whit­man, the Greek tragedians, Homer, Byron, coleridge, Francis Thomp­son, Tennyson, the English Metaphysicals, William Carlos Williams, Dylan Thomas, and Sylvia Plath among others. 
''I collect 
pieces of bad 
prose like jewels. They give you an opportunity for ridicule.'' 
Notre Dame's poet-in-residence of the last six years is also a world traveler. Roche comes from the suburbs of London, and he first taught in America at Smith's Col­lege in Massachusetts in 1956-57. In the English Department, he worked with several poets, including Sylvia Plath. He was awarded a grant for the translation of Greek tragedy, and moved to the island of Nevis in the West Indies, because it was the cheapest place to live and work, he said. Consequent work in writing and translating poetry took him and his family to Mexico. He returned to England in 1961 and lived on poetry and readings for many years. 

In 1980, Roche took up the teaching again and came to Notre Dame as poet-in-residence. He teaches two courses within the Pro­gram of Liberal Studies: "The Language of Poetry" and "Novel," which he is teaching this semester for the first time. 
His teaching method seems rather unique. "For the first exer­cise, I take a bad piece of prose, and we make it worse. Then we make improvements. The students rather enjoy making it worse," he added. "I collect pieces of bad pro­se like jewels. They give an oppor­tunity for ridicule." 
Roche resides on campus in his own sort of artist's garret in Brownson Hall with Julius Caesar, a canary of the English Gloucester breed. The walls are reminiscent of an art gallery, covered with pain­tings of his favorite painter, Dun­~an Grant. 
How does a poet work his writings into a busy schedule on a college campus? Roche begins each day with his coffee, followed by half to three-quarters of an hour of poetic exercises in images and rhythms. Sometimes the exercises inspire a poem, and sometimes they are thrown into what Roche calls his "quarry" for future reference. "Writing poetry is hard work, and it doesn't get any easier," he said. "The more you get to know, the 
more you realize new possibilities. I 
have become more critical of my 
work, and I find myself checking 
every word." 
According to Roche, the idea for 
the radio program had been "sim­
mering" in him ever since he first 
came to Notre Dame. "I wanted to 
do something for the word," he 
said. "I enjoy the music on WSND, 
and I t)lought, 'Why shouldn't there 
be something for the word?' 
"Less than 150 years ago, all who 
I enjoy the 
music on WSND, and I thought, 
'Why shouldn't 
there be some­
thing for the 
word?''' 
could read, read poetry. Now the amount of the reading public who read and listen to poetry is minimal. But poetry in literature is the only art form in which the English-speaking world has achiev­ed greatness. We've had good music, art and sculpture, but not on the scale of Beethoven, Velasquez, and Michelangelo.-With Shakespeare and Milton, poetry is the 'Cinderella of the arts' in our culture." 
Roche believes that the poetic process is the way our minds work, through the image as the memory of sense perception. "All the knowledge that we have is not readily available to us until it is nailed dQwn in an image. It's like a computer, filled with information, facts and data. If you don't funnel all that through an image, it stays all locked inside. 
"We have to realize that imagina­tion is very important. Through the disciplines of reading poetry and literature, the imagination is developed. Whatever we go to do later in life, whether we build bridges, sell burgers, or raise chickens, we will do it better if we have imagination. The greatest sin in contemporary life is lack of im­agination." 
He also emphasize3 the impor­tance of poetic meter: "I show on the program what happens if a poem is read the wrong way, with no notice of the orchestration of the lines. Most read it as if its only function is to give information like a newspaper. Unless you read poetry like a musical score, you're not getting all of it. It has to affect on subliminal as well as the intellec­tual level," he said. 
If "Words, Words, Words" achieves a wide audience, Roche said he would like to develop some spin-off programs in the future, such as a weekly request program in which listeners could phone in and ask to hear their favorite poems, and a program in which visiting poets and writers could read and explain their work. 
f 


~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t___________________
Tu-esd-ay,-Ma-rch-4,_198-6--pa-ge6 
We must do all we can to aid apartheid's victims 
South Africa is an urgent concern in a world contaminated contaminated bypressing con­cerns by urgent concerns. As one who has spent the better pact of his extra-curricular time in the last year devoted to the tragedy in South Africa, I often felt the temptation ofself­righteousne~. Every activist at one time or another feels that others are neglecting his ur­gent concern to their eternal embarrassment. So, I have contained any rising surge of self­righteousness simply because I am aware that it is always a possibility. Excessive self­righteousness eventually engenders feelings of hatred. We've seen activists, who in their love, are haters of all those who are not as righteous as they. I do not want to be accused of being an arrogant hater. Besides, I'd probably be miserable. 
john C. Dettling 
outofline 
But I am minutely self-righteous in one regard. The solution to many human rights tragedies are not within our immediate reach. We are incapable of making an immediate im­pact on Soviet transgressions, for example. Yet, the whole urgency ofdivestment in South Africa lies in the belief that this is the moment in history when we should use our economic power as the last peaceful solution in order to prevent a bloodbath. And not in two years. Not even in six months. Blacks in South Africa are pleading with us to act now. If the situa­tion in South Africa is to change for the better, a solution must be implemented quickly be­cause South Africa is slipping into a civil war. A peaceful solution will soon be merely utopian nostalgia. Today, Notre Dame students will have the precious opportunity to vote on whether Notre Dame should divest its holdings in com­panies operating in South Africa. 
An informed opinion and action in any issue is best understood at Notre Dame within the context of Christian responsibility. Not only are we factually intellectual and aftluently elite relative to the world's population, but we 

P.O. BoxQ 

South Africans asking for hands to be untied 
Dear Editor: 
Today, you'll be asked to express your opi­nion on how Notre Dame can best help the minorities living in South Africa. The Anti­Apartheid Network has done a great job disseminating information about the major points, but I would like to add a few com­ments. 
One of the biggest arguments against divestment these days (one largely advanced by the U.S. corporations themselves), is that economic sanctions will impose suffering upon the blacks. Point granted. But, perhaps a few words from Allan Boesak, president of the Alliance of Reformed Chur­ches, are in order here. First, he asked, "Where was this corporate concern for the 'suffering of the blacks' in the last 25 years?" Apartheid is not an "80s issue" like TV violence of AIDS. Active, non-violent confrontations in South Africa have been staged since the early 1960s. I find it a bit naive to pronounce this corporate 
Doonesbury 
also explicitly profess to be Christians. It is a 
powerful and profound position of respon­
sibility. 
One who illuminated my understanding of 
the inextricable relationship between Chris­
tianity and political action was Cedric Mason, 
an affable white Methodist pastor from South Africa. He has escaped to the United States to ftee from bogus charges of high treason after enduring months of torture and interroga­tion in South African prisons. He is a theologian, husband, father, and revolution­ary. Cedric Mason could also be mistaken for any Domer parent. 
Mason confirms the notion that relutionaries are not necessarily armed with Uzis while rashly spouting Marxist doctrine from their lips. likewise, college ac­tivists are not necessarily rash stereotypical radicals. But both want to change the status quo because the status quo should always be in a state of ftux until human rights are right­fully observed everywhere. 

Mason attempted to define the ideal Chris­tian in his talk here a few weeks ago. The ideal Christian is not conscious of his Chris­tianness. Christ urged us not to be concerned about being Christians in a narrow sense as the Pharisees epitomized. Rather, to be authentically Christian is synonymous with being fully human. To be fully human necessitates seeing the world beyond your own ego. Activism is an expression of con­cern for others that is deemed sacred in our political and religious tradition, but has late­ly been regarded with condescension by our generation. 
We know that the tragedy of oppression is that millions of people are denied the oppor­tunity to fully realize their humanity. They need us to help them. But it never occurs to us that we need them in order to be fully human. 
Whether divestment is the best moral 
policy, and I belie it is, a really disconcert­
ing question is whether Notre Dame students 
deeply care ifit is or not. I suspect that some 
conservative students will not een consider 
the validity ofdivestment simply because it is 
construed as a liberal cause Too often, we are 
strapped into our ideological straight jackets at the expense ofthe truth. 

Others might feel that it is fruitless to vote at the referendum or apply pressure to the University. But history is an aggegrate ofsmall events that coalesce to change the status quo. South Africa is no different: protests at Berkeley and Columbia, board meetings at Chase Manhattan, legislation in Congress, referendums at Notre Dame -all impact to become as a whole greater than each par­ticular event. 
Also, Notre Dame is a prestigious university in a powerful country and a very inftuential institution among the 55 million Catholics in the United States. Finally, if last fall's trustee meeting is any indication, the trustees might divest this spring ifmore pressure is applied. 
There are other reasons why students may not be inclined to care fervently about the tragedy in South Africa. Understandably, South Africa is seemingly abstract; it is far removed from our snugness here in South Bend. There are no peers coming home in flag-draped coffins. And the news blackout imposed by the South African government has curtailed the plethora of violent images that 
ftooded our television sets. But the sign of a true heart and mind is the capacity to transcend the abstraction that South Africa is by intellectually grasping the distant political obscenity of apartheid. At the same time, we must hear and feel with the heart the cries of the opppressed and their unweildly hurting even though one cannot personally attend to their lamenting and touch their wounds. 
Some of us justify our disinterest by rationalizing that the world is so con­taminated by suffering that anything we do can never even make a dent into the actual enormity ofit all. We reduce the power ofour own self to nothingness in the face of such colossal odds. We become paralyzed because we do not even know where to begin. But the real challenge is not to recede into our own egoism. Alone in our tears we feel what the news of the world daily confirms -a tragic sense of things. 
Yet history for the last two hundred years has been a joyful overcoming of oppression. Perhaps this is what being a Christian is all about: knowing that tragedy perpetually 
"concern" -two and a half decades later ­
as anything but flimsy rationalizations of 
more profit-oriented philosophies. 
Boesak also notes, "I would like to decide for myself whether or not I wish to suffer." The South African blacks and minorities are currently suffering economically, politically, and psychologically; however, 77 percent of this population favors wide-scale economic sanctions. Obviously, the very people most affected by apartheid are willing to risk additional short-term suffering for the possibility of freedom. 
No one has said that the road to freedom, in any country, was a smooth one; the op­pressed in South Africa accept this fact and know they may have to suffer consequences today in exchange for a brighter tomorrow. 
In short, while we as Americans cannot release their shackles, the oppressed in South Africa are merely asking us to untie their hands. Only through a weakened white population and economy will the minorities find themselves with any bargaining power. Don't you think we owe them this opportuni­ty? Desmond Tutu, Beyers Naude, and 

Boesak certainly think so. Hesburgh doesn't. But then again, neither does President Botha. 
Vote "yes" for divestment on Tuesday. 
DonnaMaus Walsh Hall 
New CORE proposal allows best government 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing to encourage the passage of the proposal to restructure the student senate. Everyone agrees that the current system is inadequate. In the fall semester the Hall Presidents Council voted to disband the student senate, and when the proposal fail­ed, it was agreed upon to come up with a proposal to restructure the senate. A pro­posal was drawn up that would centralize the power of student government in the hands of the Student Senate, consisting of a represen­tative from each dorm (two from Flanner, Grace and off-campus). The other members of the senate would be class presidents and other certain appointed and elected officials. 
This would ensure dorm representation in student government. Under the new pro­posal, the HPC can propose legislation but it cannot ratify it. The senate would be the on­ly legislative body, but rightly so since it con-
Garry Trudeau 
I JU5T /A/ANT 70 TELL YaJ YOU KNOW, nf=/1£V£R REALLY YaJ'F&MY IJI665T FAN! I 8/ZN AT!l?ACTWTO.. t//EU.. M&AN IT! 111<13 71--1058 8YE5 MAJOR. MACH~ 8IfT, 601), I FOR !?CAL? CF COUI<SE 7HEY COUW !?CAL-LYM4J(t: A f(X)L AR&. 5HI!T UP, JOAN. (XJT OF MY5&tF 0~ Y(}(J! 
\
"' 

---------------------------~-----­
clings to life, but finding hope and joy in hel­ping your neighbor to overcome it. This is what Cedric Mason lives for. This is what Steve Biko died for. 
In the last analysis, there is no excuse if most of the campus votes "No Opinion/Not Informed Enou~" concerning divestment in today's referendum. If the majority of Notre Dame students have this inclination, then it might be fair to conclude that we are politically comatose. This week students will have plenty of opportunities to inform them­selveson the issue through literature, debates, and a rally. They will have the chance to hear rebuttals to University President Father Theodore Hesburgh's dubious statements on divestment. 
Politics is a garment that shields the naked­ness of our values. What would an apathetic and uninformed referendum tally indicate about our values here at Notre Dame, espe­cially in a tragedy in which our University can make a difference? 
After Cedric Mason lectured at the Center for Social Concerns, we gathered at a friend's house. In the midst of his incredible account of the torture and interrogation that he ex­perienced in 13 months ofprison, there was a jolting knock at the door. 
"It's probably the security force," he said jokingly. A few more friends filled the house. 
A friend immediately looked at me. "For a split second, he probably really thought that it was the security," he said. 
In our careless indifference, in our smother­ing isolation at Notre Dame, we can never completely comprehend the utter helpless­ness, the paralyzing fear of such a late night encounter with an oppressive regime. But at least we should think about it-and then do all we can in own little corner of the world to alleviate the pain of those men, women, and children who are daily stripped of their human dignity. 
The world knows too much of those who do not. 
john C. Dettling is a senior in the College ofArts and Letters and a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
sists of a representative from each dorm and class. 
The current senate approved the new pro­posal, but the HPC voted it down with their main complaint that there was no check on the senate. This seems kind of ironic since the HPC wanted to disband the senate and have itself be the only legislative body. The HPC was asked to suggest changes to the proposal but they did not suggest anything. 
The proposal is a sound one because it has the senate in charge of campus affairs and the HPC in charge of dorm affairs. When someone votes for a hall president, he or she votes for someone to concentrate on hall business rather than campus business. This is not to say that the hall presidents are unin­formed or uninvolved with campus business, but it seems to be a great deal of work to ask someone to be in charge of a hall and also to make an informed vote on campus issues. 
This new proposal was not written for anyone to gain a great deal of power, it was written to give the students the most effective and efficient student government. So let's put the power where it belongs by voting for 
the proposal  for  the restructuring of the  
senate.  John Hayward  
Holy Cross Hall  

Quote of the day 
"We share the same biology, regardless of ideology. . • I hope the Russians love their children too." 
Sting "Russians•: 1985 


"ie~P-~O~i~n~t__________________________________________________T_u_es_da~y_,M__~_ch_4~,-19_8_6~-p~a~ge__7 
Past 'song of life' may cause some to think twice 
"A Song of Life" should be a song of joy, old, to dodge the rocks thrown at me by but they trained me to bag so as to place me understand my sorrow by walking in my particularly at this season of the year as we whites who were being bused by my school to at the bottom of the scale. Had I been allow­shoes. For to walk in my shoes would mean celebrate Easter, spring, and as we witness "big" all white schools. ed to work as a cashier or stockman the pay being called names because of your the earth bursting forth with new life, the When I started high school I rode on the would have started at $1.50 per hour. When I blackness, sent to inferior schools because of grass turning green and the flowers bloom­bus nineteen miles past two white high terminated my employment with Giant in your blackness, starting at the bottom of the ing. My song, hover, is one of sorrow; one schools to get to the ill-equipped, all black 1963 I was a senior majoring in biology at job market because of your blackness, and which has grown out of my life as a "black high school. My bus made a round-trip of Norfolk State and was still a bagboy earning even witnessing the President, yes, my Presi­man" in America. 110 miles per day to bus black children. $1.05 per hour. dent, vow to return you to those conditions 
This, however, was good because prior to The third issue is "Crime in the Streets", of second-class citizenship when the Con­
Howard G. Adams 1949 there was no high school for blacks in better known as "Law and Order." stitution and the Supreme Court had my area. My mother and father had no high Americans say that blacks are criminals and declared this unjust. school to atte'ld. they point to Angela Davis as an example. So I sing a song of sorrow for all the
guest column The second issue is "Welfare." They used AS you know, she is accused of buying guns hatred I have known when we speak of love. this to show blacks are lazy. Now I ask you, that killed a judge in California. Now I ask I sing a song of sorrow for the brutality I Throughout my life, to be black in if you would get up from your bed, catch you, have you ever heard of anyone being have known when we speak of brotherhood. America has meant being an underdog. It three buses to a job to make $35 per week, if placed on the FBI's Most Wanted List for I sing a song of sorrow for the undemocratic 
l ~ 

meant being received and treated second you could stay home and get $45 per week -purchasing a weapon that was used in a way our country reacts toward blacks when class. Today as we listen to the news of this and don't tell me this is not true for my murder? Who bought the gun used by we speak of Democracy. election year one who is "Black" finds new mother is a cook at the school cafeteria at my Sirhan Sirhan to kill Robert Kennedy? Who I hope that as we think of spring and new and more vigorous attacks made toward home and has been there thirty years and bought the gun used by James Early Ray to life, we will think about out children, par­him. Starting with the President of the makes less than $200 per month. Or take my kill Martin Luther King or who gave Ray the ticulary the young ones -my daughter who 
United States, the Governor of our State, uncle who worked for Dan River Cotton Mill money and car to flee the country? I leave is upstairs in church school who knows no our Senator, our representatives to members fifty-five years; he started there at the age of this for you to consider. prejudices, and that we try to make a better of our City Council, renewed efforts are be­10 and when he retired at the age of 65 in The final issue is "Drugs." Drugs have world for them. ing made to expose those "Bad Black Peo­1963 he was earning $1.27 per hour. And always been a part of the black community. (Howard gave this song of life on April 9 ple." when I tell my white friends this they simply It is anothyer way white America has found and many people have asked for copies of it 
First on the list is "Busing". The politi­say, "Adams, he had no skills." I ask you, to destroy the black man's soul. But blacks so we are sending it to you, to share it with cian, with the grace of white America, used how can one stay on a job fifty-five years own no planes and we are afraid of water, so you and so perhaps you can share it with this issued to say blacks are destroying and not learn something that would move I ask you, who is bringing these drugs into others. It may perhaps make some think public education. But my experiences have him from the very bottom ofthe scale? the country? Surely, if the police can catch a twice). shown that busing is an American product. When I came to Norfolk to attend Norfolk black man selling a "Fix" on the street, he As a grade school lad in Pittsylvania County State College in 1959, I had to work part­could apprehend the man who sold it to the Howard G. Adams is the executive direc­in the mid-western part of the state, I walked time to get through school. The only job black man. tor ofthe National Consortium for Graduate three miles to a one-room shcool because available to me was a bagboy at the Giant The song, "Walk a Mile in my Shoes" Degrees for Minorities in Engineering at there were no buses for blacks to ride. And I Open Air Market paying 75 cents per hour. I came to me as I though about this "Song of Notre Dame. This column was originally would have to run into woods, at six years was an experienced cashier and stockman, Life." But then white America cannot written in April of 1972. 

A different perspective may change a few ideas 
Have you ever wondered what it is like to black. Frightening, isn't it? Bend. Before he moved to his current ad­The first time I got a haircut as a small be different? For example, how would a CASE 1: One of my white friends asked dress, there were no black families in his child, my mother says that I was terrified. I man feel in certain situations if he was a me to go to a party with him. I was rather neighborhood. As in cases I and 2 above, cried and cried but the clippers still clipped. woman, or vice versa? How about going tired and told him that I really did not want Adams was met with some apprehension by My survival proves an important point: from short to tall or tall to short? From to go. Maybe my fatigue was not genuine his white neighbors. sometimes we are afraid because we simply Catholic to Buddhist, rich to poor? From because he got the impression that I did not One day a neighbor was talking to Adams do not know. white to black or black to white? want to go for another reason. "do you ever about the presence of the Adams family in So being people of open minds and with 
feel intimidated when you are the only black the neighborhood. "You know," the good imaginations and college students who at a party?", he asked me. neighbor said, "I was talking to some fellows are eager to learn, maybe we ought to learn
Dennis T. Tillman 
Well I guess being a token black at a party, at work and I told them taht I had the nicest that being different is not as bad as certain which happens often here, is rather in­colored next door neighbor." Can you im­people try to make it. And maybe we ought 
guest column timidating. Have you ever walked into a agine how Adams must have felt? to question the powers that be about the lack party where all heads turned and all eyes of a good number of different students here. were on you, at least for a moment, and felt What he did was turn the situation around Think of how much we can learn from 
The prospect of changing from one ex­like you were being noticed simply because (sort of like what we are doing now). He each other if we just allow everybody to be, treme to another is at once frightening and you were black? Imagine that. replied to his neighbor, "Yes, and I told the as they are in God's eyes, equal to everybody exciting. it would be fun to change from the I wonder how it would feel to be on the people in my office that I had the nicest else. Maybe, just maybe, we could stop"norm," but in many cases it would be too other side. What would i think about a lone white neighbor." What Adams did was show perpetuating myths and frauds. Maybe, just 
scary. 
black person at a party if I was white? how silly both comments were. maybe, we could eliminate racism in the 
I would love to know how a woman feels Would I notice him or her? Probably so. There are many lessons to learn from world, in our country, and on our campus, when she says "no" to her not so moral date Would it matter that he or she was black and looking at these situations with open minds. too, Frightening, isn't it? (maybe I could learn something). But the would I feel like my space was being invad­They all prove how silly it is to live in fear or though of putting on hose, wearing ed? Of course not. ignorance of other races. What we have to Dennis T. Tillman is a sophomore in the cosmetics, and walking to class in high heels The point we concluded is that neither of do is realize that our differences are, literal­College of Business Administration and scares me enough to make me thankful for us had a reason to be intimidated if we felt ly, only skin deep. treasurer ofthe Notre Dame NAACP. my maleness. Somehow I would rather settle 100 percent accepted. Frightening, isn't it? for rejection. And I would hate to face the CASE 2: Once I was the only black on an disadvanatges that women often face in our elevator that was filled with eleven people. sometimes sexist society. With my 6'4" frame, space is always limited 
P.O.BoxQ 
on elevators. But I had as much room for So being an open-minded person, I have to nine floors down on that night as I would ask myself what can I learn from my thought have had if I was riding alone. I had a friend 
OK thing for peacemakers to support is a on womanhood? If nothing else, then I have check to see if I smelled bad or something. I Bengal Bouts offer us decision we all need to reflect on, make, and to appreciate the historical social pressures did not. I wonder how the eluding eleven most importantly, act on. 
and setbacks that women have faced simply would have felt if they were black and I was a chance to help others because of sex. Maybe the Statue of Liberty white? I wonder how I would have felt. The Bengal Bouts offer the Notre Dame has more symbolism than we have been Frightening, isn't it? Dear Editor: community a chance to do something for taught to think. The point is that if we all felt 100 percent 0 K -so I realize life is one big paradox, peace and the poor: if fighting is something 
But if we do think with an open mind, accepted, in the real or hypothetical case, but I think some things are a tad bit more you are inspired to reject, then why not still perhaps we can eliminate many more pre­none of us would have had a reason to feel puzzling than others ... but the tickets to the Bengal Bouts and then judices at our school, in our nation, and even intimidated or isolated. To anyone that doesn't know them, the not show up? What a great opportunity for 
in the world. So in light of minority CASE 3: Howard G. Adams, the executive guys that run the Bengal Bouts are as great as our actions to speak louder than our words! awareness week, let's take an open mind. director of the National Consortium of the cause they support (the missions in Those of us who are black can become white Graduate Degrees in Minority Engineering, Bangladesh). Tim Hogan 
and those of us who are white can become which is based at Notre Dame, lives in South However, whether or not fighting is an Notre Dame student 

P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer tS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strat1on of etther lnabtlillon. The news IS reported as accurately and objectively as pos­stble. Unstgned edttorials represent the opimon of a majonty of the Editorial Board. Commen­tanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus. through letters, 11 encouraged. 
Editorial Board 

Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton News Ectitor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor............................ ..... Joe Murphy Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wotf 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck Advertising Manager ............................. Jim Hagan Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell Photography Manager ........... Tripp Baltz 
Founded November 3, 1966 


---~--------~------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, March 4, 1986 -page 8 



Sports Briefs 
GraceHall and Sorin Hall will meet tonight in the 1986 men's interhall basketball championship game. Action is scheduled to begin at 8 p.m. in the ACC Pit. -The Observer 
The ~D water-polo team will hold practice tonight from 9 -10:30 at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Practices are also scheduled for Wednesday and Thrusday at the same times. For more information call Tom O'Reilly at 283-3588. -The Observer 
Taryn Collins and Kathy Cunningham , two of the top high school volleyball players in Illinois, have sign­ed letters of intent to attend Notre Dame and play for head coach Art lambert's program. Collins, a 5-8 setter from Oak Park, Ill., and Cunningham, a 5-11 outside hitter from Naperville, Ill., will fill the slots left by the graduation of current seniors Tracy Benn­ington and Mary McLaughlin. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a general meeting tonight at 7 in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Building. All members are reminded to bring their checkbooks in order to pay for dues and spring break. For more information call Patricia Worth at 283-2759.-The Observer 
They're talking baseball tonight at 10 p.m. on "Speaking of Sports" on WVFI, AM-64. Listeners may phone in their questions or comments about the latest spring training news, the commissioner's drug ruling, or anything else about the national pasttime by calling hosts Frank Mastro and Rudy Brandl at 239­6400.-The Observer 
Hydrorobics will be held every Tuesday and Thursday from 12:15 -12:45 p.m. beginning today. Entry cost is $3. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
The ND /SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 p.m. in Room 204 of O'Shaughnessy Hall. All members should attend. For more information call Joan Anderson at 272-1259.-The Observer 
A squash clinic will be held for beginning and novice players tomorrow at 7 p.m. Sign up in advance at NVA. -The Observer 
A sneaker broomball tournament will be held on Saturday, March 8 from 3:45-6:45p.m. at the ACC ice rink. En­try deadline for the tournament is tomorrow. Rosters with a minimum of six team members (late additions are acceptable) must be submitted to NVA by the deadline. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Women's Golf Team will be 
videotaping tomorrow at the scheduled times. Viewing will be Sun­day at 5 p.m. in the ACC Football Auditorium. For more informa­tion call Laura Gleason at 283-3351. -The Observer 
Irish track wins weekend meet 
By CHUCK EHRMAN 
Sports Writer 

It was a dark weekend for Mar­quette and DePaul, as both teams fell victim to the Irish track team. For the Irish it was a meet oh so golden. 
The Irish ran away with it, scor­ing 95 points. Marquette followed with 47, with DePaul finishing a distant third with 13 points. The meet featured 15 events, and the Irish won 12 of them. 
"Overall, it was a· good meet," said Head Coach Joe Piane. "We gave a strong performance and I'm happy with the results." 
Piane was especially pleased with the -performance of Robert Nobles and David Wurst, who finished first and second in the half-mile with respective times of 1:53:21 and 1:55:41. 
In the 600-meters, John Dadamio, returning to action following recovery from a nagging sprained ankle, managed a fourth­place finish. 
"It was good to see him back," said Piane. "He had been out for a longtime." 
Other individual winners includ­ed Gary Lekander in the triple jump, Van Pearcy in the 440, Chris Matteo in the pole vault, Ray Dumas in the hurdles, Jeff Van Wie in the mile, John McNelis in the 600, Joel Autry in the long jump, Jim Tyler in the 1000, Tom Warth in the two-mile and Brandy Wells in the 60. The mile-relay team also won. 
Matteo qualified for the IC4A's, which will be held at Princeton, with a vault of 15 feet. Pearcy also qualified with a 440 time of 49:68. 

SMC fencing team finishes fourth 
By GLORIA ELEUTERI 
Sports Writer 

Four members of the Saint Mary's fencing team competed in the Great Lakes Tournament this past weekend, combining their ef­forts for a fourth-place finish in a 10-team field. 
The Belles tallied 23 points at the meet, placing all four members among the top-20. Seniors Becca Barnett and Mary Beth Proost placed eighth and ninth, respective­ly, junior Ann Raney finished 14th and senior Shannon Maughan followed in the 20th position. 
"The results from this weekend were nice," said Head Coach Mike Weeks. "I was pleased that there wer no letdowns among the team." 
The Belles continued to fence as well as they have all season. Weeks felt that at the fourth position, behind Notre Dame, Wayne State and Detroit, the team's consistency was maintained. 
"It was too bad we couldn't have placed in third over Detroit but with the point system, they were able to pass us by four points," stated Weeks. 
"Raney was the only fencer to meet against the Detroit women who managed to pull the team into the third position." 
The six remaining opponents present at the meet were Cleveland State, Michigan Dearborn, Chicago, Lawrence University, Tri State and Oberland. 
This may have been the last meet of the year for the Belles because the decision has not yet been made about nationals, which are held at Hunter College in New York City, in two weeks. 
Duke remains in first place 

Notre Dame stays at No. 12 in poll 
Associated Press 

Notre Dame, despite victories over top independents Marquette and DePaul, remained No. 12 in The Associated Press college basketball poll released yesterday. 
Duke, the top seed in this week's Atlantic Coast Conference tourna­ment, remained No. 1 and missed being a unamimous selection by one vote. 
The Blue Devils, 29-2, received 62 first -place votes and 1,259 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and boradcasters. Kansas, 28-3 and champions of the Big Eight, received the other first-place vote and 1,195 points to hold second for the second consecutive week. 
Duke held the top spot by winn­ing the ACC regular-season title with an 82-74 victory over then-No. 3 North Carolina, which dropped one spot in the poll. 
Thus, with one week of voting re­maining before the NCAA tourna­ment gets underway, the only teams teams to hold the No. I rankmg this season have all come from the ACC. Georgia Tech was No. 1 in the preseason poll and North Carolina begun its reign with the first week of the regular season. 
Kentucky, 26-3 and champions of the Southeastern Conference, jumped from fifth to third with 1,080 points, 35 more than the Tar Heels, 26-4, who held the No. 1 spot for 13 weeks before being dethroned by Duke in last week's balloting. 
St. John's, 27-4 moved from eighth to fifth with 938 points, 12 more than Georgia Tech, 23-5, with which finished between Duke and North Carolina in the ACC stan­dings. 
Michigan, 25-4 and currently tied for first place with Indiana in the Big Ten, improved from lOth to seventh with 829 points after vic­tories over Wisconsin and Nor­thwestern last week. 
lht" tJh"·n··,. "l•llt 11.1111« ~•1111« 1....11td ··•• tilt tlnrd 11""' "tl.d .. rtlllll 'tru.knl ( t. Ill« r .H l t {'I' 1 I.,,,Jiu d .hh t rt•'•••g lr. •Ill ., .1 111 u111d t Jl rn \1~ 11\d,l\ thr•HI)!hlrlllJ' /h,·rJIJ,t·n,.,...,,lllll ''·''' ,,,tfht l••l.tltd~HJtli~ rlllrdll•"•rtd ll.tgg.rr<•dkgl (t,\lltr .H.ltjll't.l.r,... ,,u~l ... tr••nll~ "''1'111 untrl \p111 \l••n d.t\ rtJ,,ugh I nd.l\ lh..htii!H f,,, Jlt \I d.t' • l.t ....... rlu d .. ,.... \ p 111 \II tl.i''''"·d' mu<t hl· prl'p.ud liiiH r 111 pt r" •ll••r ''' 111.111 < l1.11 gt. ,, 1rllt nr... pt·r '''., l h.tr.h


Classifieds 
lC.:f' l'f dJ\ 
NOTICES 
Typing Available 
287·4~ 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 272· 6306. 
TYPING CALL CHRIS 234-8897 
ATTN: STUDENTS Dolores Francis typing service phone number change 277·8131 
Wordprocessing.Typing 272·8827 
TYPING • Fast, High·Quallty. Call 287· 9257 
Need ride to WASHINGTON D.C. for Spring Break. Will share usual. Call Lorrl at284·5315 
LOST/FOUND 
Give us back the tapes you stole from our party OC. We are narrowing suspects and If we don't have them back by the time we find out exaclly who you are· PAIN! 
FOUND One Pearl necklace outside LaFortune. Near Huddle on or about January 28. Call1151 and ask for Alan to claim. 
LOST! I! I I lost my CLASS RING Feb. 26 in the ACC or in the parking lot between the ACC and the stadium. Small woman's ring, light blue stone. In· scription · MCK '86. If found, please call 289-4445, Molly. 
found: Women's black Timex watch outside of the Rock on 2/25. To claim, call4241. 
HELP! I LOST MY CAR KEYS FRIDAY NIGHT SOMEWHERE AROUND ST. LOUIS AVE. THEY WERE ON A LARGE STRAWBERRY KEYCHAIN ALONG WITH LOTS OF OTHER IMPORTANT KEYS. IF YOU FOUND THEM PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 287-4287. 
WANTED 

WANTED: Aide to general Cincinnati area. Will pay$$. Call Maureen at 4349 after 7:00p.m. 
SKI SKI SKI (Spring Break) We need 2 more people to go skiing to Colorado (Brekenrldge, Copper) Call NOW Chris (3185) Ramon (2475) 
Need 1·way ride to Clnclnnall • after 3· 20. Mo-3485. 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps tor $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 1·312·742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
AMIGA COMPUTER SYSTEM 512 KB Expandable to 8.5 MB. Superb color graphics with over 4,000 colors. Special 25 percent discount for ND students and faculty. 
BURKAT COMPUTER CENTER 
TICKETS 
TURN DAYTON TICKETS INTO BEER VIA MONETARY UNITS. TERRY 237· 9080 
I NEED DAYTON TIX. DOUG· 2467 
Need DAYTON GA's. Call Bill at 1775 
Need 4 tix for Dayton; 239·7204 or 233­3412. 
I need DAYTON student tix. X3506 
I need six (6) GA or student llckets for the Dayton game, but I will take however many you have. Call and leave a message at 283·2943. 
DESPERATELY need DAYTON llx ... call3805 
I NEED DAYTON TIX. 272-6306 
Need Dayton tix. $$$Call Ralph at 277· 01771s that good enough, Ralph? 
NEED DAYTON TIX, STUD OR G.A. CHRIS·1135 
Need 2·4 GA's for Dayton game. Call Helen3624. 
PERSONALS 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP? Call 234-0363, 24-hr, hotllne, counseling afree pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
OAR HOUSE: COLO BEER a LIQUOR. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
FREE COUPONS In the yellow pages of the Campus Telephone Directory. Use thamtodayl 

Hoop Hysteria shirts still availableI!! All sizes. Stop by Room 221 Stanford or call 207812089 
ST. PAT'S PARTY AT TIVOLI'S lortheUNITEDWAYI $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
SPRING BREAK BOSTON SPRING BREAK BOSTON SPRING BREAK BOSTON Does anyone need two Interesting peo· pie as riders on the way to BOSTON Fri. March 21 or Sat. March 22? Will share gas, of course. Going to NEW YORK STATE via Albany, Syracuse, or Rochester?, we'll ride along too. Please call3861. 
EXICITEMENT ON CAMPUS?! DO YOU BELIEVE IN MAGIC? Come and experience Bob Garner·lllusionist March 4 8:00 p.m. Engineering Building 
The Right Stuff· Bruce Lohman for Stu· dent Body President! I! 
Thank you St. Jude for all your help! Please continue to help me! 
P.T., Donny & B.O .. Key West here we come! 
CPAs Perfection Is our Priority 
Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272·HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm·12am Monday·Thursday; 5pm·2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
Debbie, 

Enjoyed your company last Friday. Wished we could have shared another dance. 
Love, D. 
THEOLOGY FORUM MEMBERS: PLEASE SUPPORT PAUL AMMATELLI, JULIE MILLER AND PATRICIA O'CON· NOR. AS THEY MAKE PRESENTA· TIONS OF THEIR "THEOLOGICAL SYSTEMS" TOMORROW, MARCH 5, AT 
10:00 P.M.IN 341 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
BAHAMAS2 "Smoke? Smoke? Reefer, mahn? Yo Mahn, cocaine? Cocaine?" 
GOD hates you too, Phillip ... St. Peter 
HEELLP DEE!!!! I! 
I'm suffering from Hockey Withdraw!! 
Thank you St. Jude! 
Katie M.: Why have you suddenly stop· ped calling back? If I said or did something that upset you, or even if it isn't me, can't we talk about II? You've been too good of a friend to me that I can't just forget about it. Please call me soon; my doubts are driving me up the wall. Love Paul 
Bill Healy can't decide for you. Vote to divest Notre Dame's holdlng·s In South Africa. 
MK I love you, too. Chuck 
Life is wonderful, even at Marquette. 
Kolski 

TO CAST AND CREW OF TEMPEST: A 
MILLION THANKS FOR YOUR HELP 
AND SUPPORT LAST WEEK. 
COULDN'T HAVE DONE IT WITHOUT 
YOU! 
THIS ONE'S FOR YOU, M.G.! 
LOVE, UGLY UPSTART PERCHANCE TWO-CAN, BUT A DART GUN AND LEAP .FROG IS BET· TEA. 
JODITH & JUNE 
MINUTES FROM THE 1ST LONELY HEARTS CLUB MEETING -­
· THANK YOU ST. JUDE! 

EAT YOUR HEART OUT OR JUST CHEESE STICKS, CHEESE FRIES, 2 BOXES OF COOKIES, 5 CHEESEBURGERS, AND A SIX PACK. 
JMBJ 
KANKAKEE OR BUST?!! MEMORIES FROM A WEEKEND 240mi/24hrs. Do I have to get out of the car? The Rabbit died -towtrucks & dogs. The Royal Motel? where's the closest liquor store? On the road again! Singin' show tunes. Kam's at last. Shakin' with the bouncer. Too bright. Have Visa will travel. 
See I woke up Sunday morning and I says to myself, "Hey big D," I says, "I really had a good time with that SMC chick· Kryz." Then It hit me! POW! Why not tell her?! "O.K." says I ... Yo Kryz .. . I really had a good time 
To my Tex and Pitt buddles:H'ow can I thank you for everything? The beer, cake, party, oh how I love you guys. You have really made this year one to remember.LL 
JOYCE, Best of luck to the best 200er at SMC Love,CUSH 

SMC StudentsSurvlval Leader lnforma· lion Session March 5&6 6 P.M. HCC M,o\NDATOAYTOATTEND1 MEETING 
-

The Observer Tuesday, March 4, 1986 -page 9 
Women's tennis drops match to Purdue by close 5-4 count 
SpKial to The Obsernr 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team dropped a heartbreaking 5-4 decision to Purdue over the weekend in a match at West Lafayette. 
"It was a tough match to lose," said Notre Dame head coach Michele Gelfman. "We fought back from a 4-2 deficit after the singles play and had a good shot at winn­ing the match." 
Picking up wins at Purdue were lzzy O'Vrien (7-6, 6-2) and Tammy Schmidt (4-6, 6-1, 6-4) in the singles. In the doubles Susie Pan-

Wrestlers 
continued/rom page 12 
tice with the team before the tour­nament. He was not completely healed for the tournament, which had an effect on the whole team, according to McCann. 
"Durso's injury affected us a lot more than I thought it would," he said. "He's usually a big spark plug for us, and with him being less than 100 percent, we didn't get going like we should have. It really hurt us mentally." 
Magnifying the frustration for the Irish was the finish of Drake, a team which Notre Dame beat ther and Michele Dasso teamed up for a 6-4, 6-1 victory. The number­two doubles tandem of Mary Col­ligan and Natalie Illig scored a 6-0, 6-4 win. 
The team comes back home this weekend, as it will play host to Bradley, St. Mary's and Akron in the Notre Dame Quadrangular at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
"Now we'll have to get ready for this weekend," said Gelfman. "If we can play up to our potential, we should be pretty tough to beat. I'm really looking forward to getting back to our own courts." 
earlier this season. The Bulldogs sent five wrestlers to the National Tournament and placed second overall. 
The disappointing finish in the 
tournament  leaves  the  Irish  with  
some  bitter  memories  from  the  
season,  according  to  McCann,  

despite the progress his young team showed in his second year as head coach. 
"It leaves us with an empty feel­ing," he said. "We didn't win the big matches and we didn't wrestle with the confidence we had in some other matches. 
"It is really hard to accept. We all feel the season should not be over for us, but it is." 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


Gymnastics Club places second 
The Gymnastics Club traveled to West Lafayette Saturday to participate in a five-team meet. The men's team, after a rigorous week of practice, finished second with a score of l2l.l5. The Purdue men's team won the meet with a score of 128.10. Chicago placed third, followed by Miami (UhlO) and Indiana. 
"The men have shown a lot of improvement," said Club President Jim Ciesil. "The routines are really coming together." 
Paul Nowak took fourth in the all-around for the Irish with a score of 42.2 for six events. He top­ped the competition in the rings, and he placed fifth in the parallel bars. 
"Paul is a balanced, all-around gymnast," said Ciesil. "He had a good routine on the rings, hitting all his tricks." 
Matt Sennett placed fourth for Notre Dame in the horizontal bar with a score of 6.4, and Ciesil finished second in the floor exercise with a strong routine. 
"Practicing routines during the week helped me a lot," noted Ciesil. "I had been having trouble with a press, but I had no problem this time." 
The women's team was hindered by injuries and homework demands. Only three gymnasts com­peted, combining to give the team a third place finish. 

Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 
Michelle Broussard finished thira m all four 
events, but managed to take second overall. Her 
score for four events was 31.45. Maura Leonard 
placed fifth in the beam, and Valerie Lamanna 
scored a 7.0 in the vault. 
You can catch the GymnastiC§ Club in action this weekend as the team hosts Miami (Ohio). The meet starts at 2 p.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
The Volleyball Club, off last week, has three big games on the road this week. On Wednesday the team travels to Muncie, Ind., to face Midwest In­tercollegiate Volleyball Association opponent IUPI-Fort Wayne. Then the team plays two mat­ches this weekend, one against Miami (Ohio) and the other against Ohio State. A victory against either the Mastodons or the Buckeyes, both Top Twenty teams, would make the Irish serious con­tenders for the MIV A title. 


"They're the best team we've played," said Dees, whose team has

Irish 

faced Memphis State twice and continuedfrom page 12 Oklahoma once. "They were great better shooters, but not tonight. without Rivers. I can't imagine Because of that, we decided not to what they would have been like try and trap any earlier than we did with him. toward the end." "Yeah, they're much better than 
When all was said and done, Memphis State. Notre Dame has Dees came away very impress~d such good shooters, and they're so with Notre Dame, still 12th in the physical -you can tell that by look­latest AP poll. ing at them. What surprised us was 

You're the man in charge. And ~~~ cah The rewards match up too. A solid 
$3.00 off your order.
handle it. Because the Navy has '"giv.en you starting salary of $19,200 with regular the management and technical training to promotions and increases. 
And on Tuesday, get $2.00 
get the job done. Responsibility and rewards. It's the 
off any 16-lnch cheese 
Thirty men report to you. And what you way you measure success in the Navy. 
pizza with 2 or more 
do includes the care and responsibility A Navy representative •·ill be at the 
toppings.
for millions of dollars worth of Government Career Fair on March 6, 1986. sophisticated equipment. Plan to drop by to discuss options which 
Just ask for Tuesday's 
special. Available all day 
At age 22 you can be a leader in the are available to you., 
this Tuesday ... only from
Navy. With all the decision-making Or, you may call ahead for additional 
Domino's Pizza. authority you need to help you match up information, toll-free, at: 
to your responsibility. 1-800-382-9404 
NAVV OFFICER PROGRAMS TAKE CHARGE of YOUR CAREER. 


o~r/1-r 
~ 
Call us: 
277-2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
OUr dnvers carry loss lhan $20 00 No coupon necessa1.J Just request !he 
~ue;:~.15 Pi~~~:.--lvery area.
1 
DOMINO'S 
PIZZA 
DELIVERS., FREE. 
how they physically intimidated us inside. That's why we missed so many eight-footers. They're a great team. I'd sell my soul to continue this series, but Notre Dame said no." 
Next up for the Irish is their regular season finale at home against Dayton, and then it's off to wherever the NCAA Tournament selection committee sends them. 
Junior Class Formal 
Saturday, March 8 Knollwood Country Club 
Tickets available tonight --Thursday 6-9pm Junior Class Office LaFortune 
Limited number available 
Fresh, hot, great-tasting pizza from DOMINO'S PIZZA®. Made to order and delivered In 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get 
The Observer Tuesday, March 4, 1986-page 10 
Women's swimming team captures third 
Earlier in the season, Darlington had reset the University record in the 400-yard individual medley. 
Senior Venette Cochioli tied the University record in the 100-yard breaststroke with a time of 109.50. 
As a final piece of good news for Notre Dame women's swimming fans, it was announced this past weekend that Notre Dame will host next year's Women's Midwest In­dependent Swimming and Diving Championships in the last week of February at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Correction 
Because of a reporting error, a result in the 150-pound divi­sion of the 56th annual Bengal Bouts was reversed in yester­day's paper. Dan Sexton defeated Kevin Young by a unanimous decision. 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
"This team has been a wonderful group of kids to work with. They are very special." That is how Notre Dame swimming coach Tim Welsh described his team after the women captured third place in the Women's Midwest Independent Swimming and Diving Champion­ships. 
The event was hosted by the University of Illinois (t:hicago) and took place Thursday through Saturday. 
Notre Dame finished third out of a tough 14-team field. Winning the event, as they did last year, was Il­linois State with 749 points. In se­cond with 542 points was last year's third-place · finisher, Northern Michigan. 
Tied for third with Notre Dame 
was Oak Land (Michigan) with 404 
points. Nine points behind in fifth 
place was last year's runner-up, 
Western Illinois. 
Rounding out the field in respec­tive order were Eastern Kentucky, University of Illinois (Chicago), Evansville, Northeast Missouri State, Eastern Illinois University, St. Louis, Northern Iowa, Grand Valley State and Oral Roberts. 
"Going into the meet, we had three goals: to have a winning season, to win our conference, and to finish third in this Champion­ship meet," said Walsh. 
"In the very first event we had our relay squad disqualified for a false start. We lost up to 30 points because of this. But from this point on we swam beautifully." 
The Irish were fifth after the first day and fifth after the second. On the third day, however, Notre Dame swam to near perfection to move up to their third-place finish. 
One of the events which helped facilitate this comeback was the last swimming event of the meet, the 200-yard butterfly. 
"Our team depth was a key to the third place finish," said Welsh. "In the 200-yard butterfly, we entered five girls and they all scored, and that is a lot of points. In contrast, Oak Land (Michigan) had no one in the event and Western Illinois had only one swimmer competing. 
"There was no one event which sparked the team. I think the key to our success was that a lot of single decisions were made to focus on personal excellence, to do our best. We talked about this before each event. 
"This commitment is evidenced by the fact that by and large everyone swam their seasonal or lifetime best." 
Four University records were set and one was tied at the Champion­ships. 
Sophomore Barbara Byrne broke two Notre Dame reocrds. The first was in the 100-yard backstroke where she reset the mark at 102.92. She also broke the record for the 200-yard backstroke at 216.01. 
Sophomore Amy Darlington also broke two records, one in the 200­yard freestyle and the other in the 500-yard freestyle. Her times were 
154.56 and 508.60, respectively. 



This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound~ can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. 
From February 15 through April27, all you do is show us your college student l.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date of purchase. So this Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound. 
Must presmt avalid college stud<nt I.D. card upon purchase. No other chscounts applv. rtcket> are nontransferable and good for 1111vel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other j>lftictpaung carnm. Certain restrictions apply. Offer effective 2115186. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada. 
GREYHOUND 

leave the driving to us: 

Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
'!' J'IH6 (irevhound Lmes. Inc. 
Replace Lost, Damaged, 
or Discolored Lenses at a 
Fraction of their Original 
Cost! 
*Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsol 
•Amencan 
Hydron •Aosolt 

•Bausch 
& Lomb •Cibasolt •Durasolt 


$41.93 pair 
* Tlllfecl Lenses 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Cibasolt Colors 


'63.97 pair 
'h~W-L­
•AO Soltcon $57/pr 
•Bausch & Lomb $45/pr •CoooerVtston Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $971 pr •Durasolt 3 $57/pr •Genests 4 ~~'i/or •Hydrocurve 175/pr. 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 
Ir-------------,
D••• ----­
I o..,Ooctor1 Ptuu ..~'"'a copy of my tatut SOft I I;O"IIK.I lens prnctop~oon Ptr.asc compte11 
ll'loJI"'O ITI&ol 11 II 100" II PQIS•CIII Tl'la,ll
I 'f"'U,.,,on..,cl'l I 
:---,.."."'S·V"•'.:;;--~
' ...... ..~.~· ...
:. -·-­
1'-·­1 
I Ol I• -. I, I .~···-· 
: ~ I f •••~M" ...... 
I . . ·--­
L ___ _::·~~:':_____ 
All lenses guaranteed lirsl qualily, and 1re supplied in lhe onginal lactory ualed vials. 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
1 Acou•r£> yoLo' como•eTe contacT len!> orescuor•on 2 Complete !he order oc•oVv 3 Make Check money order or 
complete cred•l caro ,nlorma•on paya­ble 10 CLS tnt 4 Enclose name address & phone number w•ln order 5 Matt alltnlorrnd!IOn Ia 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Carter Rd. Oevelancl, Ohio 44139 216/241-2416 
··Contact Lens Suppliers lor 25 years ·· Please send ___pain at 
only __o pair. UNO 
.,.,.. .......... 
.sw,.., ......,._2:..;..0:..:0_ 
.,.,.. 
Ihave enclosed totlll payment in 1M following
-...:
--cloecl ____, onler 
___VISA __Mat..c.nl 
(Personal Cheeks musl be cleared pnor to sh1pment) 
......-...·------­
~-·-----------­
-
•No ...... lotos ortlon piHoo . 
••• wilt kHp otl ,..,..,;,_Oft file 
• •o 
forreor•rs.•. of the teMea ordered •• Ml our 
in-Illy n '""' to lot shipped in 24 "-•· 

~4(Jt~C3L~-----------------------------------------------T-ue_s_da_y_._M_a_rc_h_4_,1_9_86_-.p~a~ge_l_l 
Bloom County 
-: 5/GI/•. ~ 
1 GUESS YOU'R£ 
srta 1101N611fe. 5A~ 1HIN& FOR A t..IVINu, AR£H'T YOI/? 
\ 
Zeto 
T ft'V3AN, Rf/UY.., MAKING MONEY BY KE€PING RAPISTS ANP tNJR~RERS Ol/r Of JAI~-WHERE WOUW 5VCH II Nlc&, ({E5f'W111M, vmR­aAS5 BOY HAVE GOTreN THe 
NOTION FOR 5UCH II ~IF6 ? 
I 


The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1  -boy!  
5 Maternally  
related  
10 Facial feature  
14 Lunchtime  
15 She-lox  
16 Actress Turner  
17 Start ola  
George Braque  
quotation  
20 Israel's  
neighbor  
21  Fibrous  
22 Projecting  
rock  
25 Ogled  
26 Quotation  
continued  
30 "Beau-"  
34 Native: suit.  
35 Repast  
36 Georgia's  
Maddox  
37 Cavort  
39 Skirt style  
41  Mood  
42 Slept noisily ~ 1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc.  
44 Moving trucks 46 Legendary bird  All R1ghts Reserved  Yesterday's Puzzle Solved:  
47 Course  7 Certain line  
48 Bible division  8 Tried out  
50 School subj.  9 Foyer  
52 Wile of Zeus  10 Most flaxen  
53 Gymsult  11 Called  
56 Feel one's  12 Mere  
way  13 Appian­ 
60 Endol  18 Seraglio  
quotation  19 -Perilous  
63 Feed the kitty  23 In the lead  
64 Veranda In  24 Aim  
Oahu  26 Winner's place  
65 Eng. school  27 Expiate  
66 Noxious plant  28 Rutaceous tree  
67 Military  29 Cocktail  
camping place  garnish  
68 Jaffe  31  Shop  
32 Mortise's  
DOWN  adjunct  
1 Formicary  33 Upright  
occupants  36 "Festlna -"  49 "The Weaver  57 Premlnger  
2 Loyalist  38 Kicked  of Raveloe"  58 Unskilled  
3 Sightseeing  upstairs?  51  Shelve  worker  
journey  40 Poet Ogden  53 Byway  59 Ms Ferber  
4 Silly tricks  43 Poetry Muse  54 Punta del­ 60 Hem and­ 
5 Seth's mother  45 NCO  55 Actress  61  Snooze  
6 Water fairy  48 Warning  Merrill  62 Contend  

3/4/86 

Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
OH Srf!.V/E,.. 
I PRAY 'toii'U. GO TO TRIJCI<­Pf?IVING SCHOOL 
ONE. PAY... 
Kevin Walsh 
Campus 

*12 p.m.-Seminar, "Grass Roots Movements and Democracy in Brazil," Scott Mainwaring, Notre Dame, Room 131 Decio, Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute *2:15 p.m. -Workshop, Alan Dugan, Sophomore Literary Festival, Library Lounge, Sponsored by SAB *3:30p.m. -Lecture, "Development of Forces at Polymer Contact Surfaces," Dr. Matthew Tirrell, University of Minnesota, Room 356 Fitzpatrick, Sponsored by the Chemical Engineering G.T.E. Emerging Scholar Series *4:30 p.m. -Seminar, "Native STructures of Siderophore Receptors in the Escherichia coli outer membrane," Dr. Phillip Klebba, Notre Dame, Room 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored by the Biology Dept. *4:30p.m. -Lecture, "Islamic Politics Diversi­ty," Jean Labasse, Paris Institute for Studies in Politics, Room 122 Hayes-healy, Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and the O'Neil Chair 



"Mom! Allen's makln' his milk foam!" 
•7 p.m. -Movie and Discussion, "Killing Us Softly," Dillon Hall Basement, Social Con-, cerns Film Series 
*7:30 p.m. -Movie, "The Nun," Annenberg Auditorium, Tuesday Night Film Series *8 p.m. -Concert, Chorale and Chamber Or­chestra, Sacred Heart Church *8 p.m. -Lecture, "Theology and Secularism in the Trivialization and Personalization of Religion in the West," Prof. Jacob Neusner, Brown University, CCE Auditorium, Spon­sored by the Theology Dept. Liss Lecture Series *8 p.m.-Illusionist, Bob Garner, Engineering Auditorium, Sponsored by SAB 
•8 
p.m. -Sophomore Literary Festival, with Kay Boyle, Library Auditorium 

•9 
p.m. -Irish Singer, John Kennedy, That's Entertainment, Chameleon Room, Haggar College Center, Saint Mary's, Sponsored by the SMC Student Government 


Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame Glazed Pork Roast Beef Stroganoff over Noodles Vegetable Stuffed Peppers 


Saint Mary's Veal Scallopini Spaghetti with Meat or Marinara Sauce Beef Ravioli Wet Burrito 


--------------------~­

Tuesday, March 4, 1986-page 12
S~orts 
Irish dispose of pesky Privateers, 75-67, to improve record to 22-5 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN Scott Hicks who played very well and when I'm not, I want to get it to Sports Writer for us." someone who is." But most of the crowd of 8,750, The Irish lost some of their com­
NEW ORLEANS -The Notre the second-largest in New Orleans posure in the early minutes of the Dame basketball team got its first history, had come to see Rivers and second half. The Privateers cut the taste of playing without David hometown favorite Donald Royal, margin to 39-31 behind Terrance Rivers last night, and it was a taste who scored 11 points before foul­Bellock's two free throws and layup not entirely to its liking. ing out in what he termed "a sub­following his steal of the resulting 
But, as they have all season, the par performance." When Royal inbounds pass and two Grandison rest of the Irish grouped together in was on the bench with foul trouple, buckets. But following a Notre the face of adversity and defeated a the crowd yelled for Rivers, but to Dame timeout, the lead fluctuated pesky New Orleans squad, 75-67. no avail. from seven to 13 for the remainder Ken Barlow led the Irish, now 22-5, "It was definitely something I'm of the game. While the Irish had with 20 points and seven rebounds, not used to," said Rivers, who miss­the Privateers reeling, they couldn't while Ronnie Grandison had a ed his first game in two years with knock them out. game-high 25 points and 10 re­the Irish. "It's something I'm not ''They're a very good team," said bounds for the Privateers, who fell going to get used to. I could have Dolan, who scored four points. to 16-11. played if they needed me to, but I "They've got a lot of good athletes. 
didn't want to risk injuring it more. We weren't concentrating early in 
Rivers found himself in a spot he 

Scott did a good job, though." the second half and we let them 
is unaccustomed to -the bench. He 

back in it. Then we started concen­was still feeling the effects of a Hicks scored 11 points and hand­trating on playing defense and re­sprained ankle that he sustained in ed out four assists in 31 minutes of bounding."
Saturday's win over Marquette and play. But while the Irish built a 37­The renewed concentration ofNotre Dame head coach Digger 23 halftime lead, the offense at the Irish and the Privateers•·1ack ofPhelps was not about to take any times did not appear to have its clutch shooting from both the fieldrisks where his premier guard was rhythm and played out of sync. 
and the free throw line spelledconcerned. 
doom for any hopes of a com­"I did hurt us early," said Irish eback.
"We didn't want to play Rivers forward Jim Dolan, "but Scotty "We could absolutely not get thetonight," said Phelps after the kept control. Once we got used to clutch shots of free throws when wegame. "With Dayton and the the change, we got things going and needed them," said first-year New
NCAA Tournament ahead, we got in the groove." 
Orleans coach Benny Dees. "Whendidn't want to risk reinjuring it or Notre Dame built its first-half we got close, we couldn't get the big making it worse. A few years ago, lead behind Barlow's 12 first-half one."
we played Orlando Woolridge points and freshman Mark Steven­Dees was caught off-guard by
against Dayton in the final game son's seven in that half. Stevenson, when he had a thigh contusion, and who finished with 17, has been Rivers' absence as was anyone else that affected him against BYU in playing with more and more con­in attendance, but said that didn't the tournament. I wasn't going to fidence the past few weeks, and last change his game plan. risk that again. night he called for the ball in key "It absolutely surprised us," 
"He (Rivers) hasn't been practic­situations. commented Dees. "We talked ing. He tried to run today and was "I'm much more comfortable about trapping more, but we decid­only 80 percent, so we went with with the offense now that it's late in ed not to. We didn't have quick feet the season," said Stevenson. "I tonight. I think anyone who has have the ability to score, not to take watched our team for awhile knows anything away from my team­we're usually much quicker and
Wrestlers come home disappointed 
mates. In high school I was the scorer and did what had to be done. see IRISH, page 9 By RICK RIETBROCK taining what it had in mind going Now I want the ball when I'm on
a trip to the National Tournament, 

Spons Writer into the season. 
a wrestler must place in the top
"We're just terribly disappointed 
three in his weight class. Five Irish 

Fencers continue mastery 
It was not supposed to end this with performance," McCann
our wrestlers, 134-pound freshman way. Notre Dame's wrestling team lamented. "Each kid's goal from 

Jerry Durso, 142-pound freshman 

was wrestling well. The team's con­day one of practice was to get to the Pat Boyd, !50-pound sophomore at matches over weekend fidence was high and so were its National Tournament. We just 
Ron Wisniewski, 167-pound

hopes. Last weekend, however, didn't accomplish what we set out tie, surpassing their nearest com
freshman Crhis Geneser and 177­

everything came to an unhappy end to do. By GREG STOHR petitor, Wayne State, by 36 points
pound senior captain John Krug,

at the NCAA Western Regionals. "We had the people capable of Sports Writer The women edged the same oppo
finished fourth in their weight

The Irish placed 5th in the 12-making it to Nationals, but we nent by 4 points. 
classes to narrowly miss berths to 

team tournament, but none of the couldn't get it done," he continued. Qualifying a lot of reasons for The Irish filled their NCAA tea 
the National Tournament. 

Irish wrestlers will go to the NCAA "That's what makes it especially the NCAA championships is not a the following day in the Midwes
Durso pulled a muscle in his back 

National Tournament. Notre Dame frustrating for all of us." novel accomplishment for Notre Qualifier. DeCicco made the dif
last week and was unable to prac­

head coach Fran McCann said the Frustration sums up the tourna­Dame head fencing coach Mike ficult decision to allow ' junio 
weekend left the team short of at-ment for the Irish. In order to earn see WRESTLERS, page 9 DeCicco. Every.season since he has Charles Higgs-Coulthard the op assumed the head coaching post in portunity to gain the final Irish foi 1962 DeCicco has seen his men's position in preference to team cap team qualify the maximum possible tain Van der Velden. Higgs
Bookstore sign-ups this weekend 
number of fencers at each position. Coulthard responded with a first Nothing has changed in 1986 as place finish using his team's mosSpedal to The Observer staff. "Starr• includes any person has not played for another team. 
six Irish men -two at each of the potent weapon. 
who works for ND-SMC; for in­Varsity basketball players, three fencing weapons -and two

Bookstore Basketball doesn't ac­stance, maintenance workers and however, may not be substituted John Edwards and Do 
Notre Dame women reached the
tually begin until April 3, but sign­dining hall staff. Students must be Johnson, meanwhile, each earne
for varsity football players. "Foot­

NCAA Championships with strong 
ups for the 15th edition of Notre currently enrolled to be eligible. No his third trip to the tournament i
ball players" are those persons who 

Dame's annual springtime tourna­alumni or future students are listed the previous fall performances Saturday at the the sabre division. Edwards finis
were on Great Lakes Championship and

ment are this Sunday, March 9. allowed. roster or on current ed second and Johnson third
the spring 

Sunday at the Midwest Qualifier,
Registration will be held from 12 to The Bookstore commissioners roster. Sunday. Mike Gostigan will joi
both in Appleton, Wi. 
3:30 p.m. in the Great Hall of have expressed a few simple rules The names of two team captains Scherpe in the epee competition i 
Yehuda Kovacs, Christian
O'Shaughnessy, and the fee again that those trying to put together a and their phone numbers must be Princeton due to his third-pia
Scherpe and Molly Sullivan all won
will be $5. team should keep in mind. finish in the qualifying tourn
given at the time of registration, 

gold medals in the Great Lakes
This is the sign-up for men's ment.
No one can play for more than and the person signing up the team Championship to merit automatic

Bookstore only. Sign-ups for one team. Teams advancing In women's foil action, Jani
should indicate whether that team 

bids into the NCAA tourney, which 
women's Bookstore will be at a beyond the first round are free to has any football players on it so Hynes earned a NCAA bid with 
will begin March 18 in Princeton,
later date. use players other than their original that they may be scheduled only for gold-medal triumph in the qualif Last year 560 teams participated five, but new team members cannot late games. No games will be N.J. ing action. The Irish will also fie! 
Kovacs captured first place in the 
in the tournament, as the commis­have already played for another rescheduled. a foursome in the women's
foil competition with a 10-8 victory
sioners were able to accpet team. competition at Princeton. 
Team names containing vulgarity over teammate Mike Van der
everyone who wished to enter a· Only one former or present The undefeated men's squa
(any of George Carlin's seven dirty Velden. Scherpe dominated his op­
team. Two years ago, however, 22 NCAA Division basketball though, will represent
words) or flagrant attacks upon ponents in the epee division to gain
teams had to be placed on a waiting player, male or female, is allowed Dame's best opportunity for a n 
more other students will not be accepted his second straight NCAA berth,
list. As this year's tournament staff per team. In addition, no tiona! title. The Irish will be hopin
by the tournament staff at the time while Sullivan gained an opportuni­
is unsure whether it will expand than three varsity football players to better their finish of last ye
of registration. Teams refusing to ty to improve upon her fifth place
beyond 560, Bookstore -Commis­are allowed per team. But if a team when they placed second ­
give an acceptable name will be NCAA finish of a year ago as she
sioner Steve Wenc has recommend­has a varsity basketball player on one point behind Wayne State. 
assigned a team number only. won the women's foil gold medal. 
ed that teams get there early or risk it, then there can only be two varsi­"The men have a better chan not getting into the tournament. ty football players. The finals of Bookstore XV will The Irish fenced well enough tnat than the women," says DeCicc Eligibility for the tournament ex­Should one football player be be held on Sunday, April 27, and both the men's and women's squads "They aln:ady have compet tends to all graduate and unable to play for his team, will culminate the week-long captured first place in the tourna­against tough competition. I thi undergraduate Notre Dame -Saint ment for the first time since 1977. our guys are going to make a run
another football player may be celebration of An Tostal at Notre 

The men won their third straight ti­
Mary's men, women, faculty and substituted for him, as long as he Dame and Saint Mary's. every weapon." 



