Reviews -page 8-9 
I • 

VOL. XX, NO. 137 THURSDAY, MAY 1, 1986 
-
· an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Mayor calls for increased patrols to monitor conduct of partygoers 
By FRANK LIPO tygoers), but if we have to we will," South Bend city attorney Executive News Editor he said. Eugenia Schwartz, who was also at Uniformed officers on foot the press conference, said that "int 
The South Bend Police Depart­patrols, uniformed officers in the past we've had complete com­ment has increased police patrols in police cars and undercover pliance when noise citations have the Northeast Neighborhood, in a plainclothes officers will be used to been issued." move designed to control a wave enforce city noise regulations and "We haven't had that kind of of recent student parties which to monitor the conduct of par­response and respectful attitude 
have disturbed area residents, ac­tygoers, according to Captain from the folks who have been cordiug to South Bend Mayor Patrick Cottrell, head of the South issued the citations this year," she Roger Parent. Bend Police Department's East Sec­said. The increased patrols come in the tor, who was also in attendance at Schwartz said there were parties wake of complaints by area the press conference. broken up at six different addresses 
residents against the noise level Parties will be monitored with last weekend, each with more than generated by the parties this spring noise meters, said Cottrell. If the 100 students. and the behavior of some party­volume of a particular party is "At this particular address (601 
goers, Parent said yesterday at a louder than 55 decibels, the max­E. Corby), there were two parties news conference in front of a house imum allowed after 10 p.m. under that had to be broken up and two at 601 E. Corby Blvd. a local noise ordinance, owners of separate noise citations issued," The house is rented by Notre the residence will be written cita­said Schwartz. 
Dame students and was the scene of tions and taken to court, said Cot­The house at 601 E. Corby was the arrest of three Notre Dame trell. also the scene of a student being students last Thursday and Satur­These special patrols also will be bitten numerous times by a police day nights during parties given by instructed to arrest anyone who is dog Thursday night. 
the occupants. publicly intoxicated, littering, Sophomore Jeff Morgan, saying Parent also distributed a petition publicly indecent or acting in a he is the victim of an unprovoked 
to reporters signed by 65 residents disorderly fashion, Cottrell said. attack, is considering taking legal of the neighborhood, prote3ting Increased police patrols will not action against the South Bend what they say are "increasing pro­interfere with the normal work Police Department. 
blems surrounding the Notre Dame shifts, said Cottrell. Parent said Cottrell said Morgan, who was student population abusing and money is budgeted each year for arrested on charges of disorderly misusing private property special projects such as this. conduct, public intoxication and throughout the neighborhood." Student parties are always a pro­resisting law enforcement, had Parent said that while the recent blem in the spring and fall, accor­assaulted the handler of the dog. 
student parties have prompted the ding to Parent. But this spring He said police dogs are only used By JULIA HEWSON perform a standing back hand spr­
News Staff ing, a double base extention, a Pur­
action, other South Bend residents there is an additional problem for in certain cases. who have large, loud parties also police, he said. Police officers have ''The only time that we would use due up, a pop down, an Irish jig, will be subject to police action. been verbally abused and otherwise. dogs is if we had . . . 200 people Lou Holtz will not be the only and an original skit. 
"We certainly don't want to come attacked by students while attemp­new face to look for on the football Judges were faculty members of 
out here and arrest them (par-ting to break up parties, he said. See PATROLS, page3 field next fall as sophomore Frank Notre Dame and Saint Mary Hughes has been chosen Notre 's, past leprechauns, and Dame's crowd-pleasing mascot, the cheerleaders from other schools, h~ 
leprechaun. said. A civil engineering major, Although this year was the se­
Building renovations, memorial 
Hughes has been eagerly an­cond year Hughes tried out for ticipating his chance to leprechaun, he said he was shocked demonstrate his spirit-boosting to see that the judges had selected

to be completed roughly on time 
capabilities, he said. him. By JOHN FLORY He said the student center and that black granite, ordered from . Being chosen to represent Notre '"I thought I was chosen because I StaffReporter the Law School will be "essentially" Italy, has not yet arrived. This Dame as the leprechaun came as no grew out a beard, I met the height 
completed on schedule. granite should be shipped during surprise to his friends and family in requirement and the great job my 
Regardless of the original set­According to Dedrick, 40 percent the first week of May, he said. Woodbridge, N.J., he said. mom did helping me with my backs due to poor weather condi­of the face brick has been applied The granite will be used to "pave "This is something I've always costume," he said. tions, the completion of the War to the new wing of LaFortune, and the horizontal surfaces" around the wanted to do. I came to Notre Assistant Athletic Director 
was

Memorial and the renovations in the masonry on both the student fountain, he said. Dame because of its national Sharon Petro said Hughes LaFortune and the Law School are center and the Law School addition Dedrick said LaFortune and the academic reputation, but I knew chosen because "he met the height now back on schedule, according to is complete. Law School, when finished, will be that I had a real chance to par­requirement and exhibited both the Director of Physical Plant Don Dedrick also said new furniture "exciting" buildings. Both of these ticipate in the Notre Dame spirit if I independence and creativity to han­Dedrick. for the LaFortune addition and buildings are slated for 1987 spring became leprechaun. You just don't dle the job." 
Dedrick said construction time food service equipment for the new completions, he said. get that opportunity in any other "I have been practicing hard was lost in November because of Huddle have been ordered. Student Activities Director Joni university," Hughes said. every day since try-outs," ffughes heavy rains, and in December Once the brick work on the stu­Neal described the floor plan of the Initially there were five con­said.. because of the extreme cold. dent center is finished, then walls new LaFortune facilities. tenders for the vacant position, he The Blue-Gold Spring Classic 
He said all three projects will be and windows will be installed, he She said the basement will con­said, but the competition was nar­was Hughes' debut. He said his per­finished roughly by the projected said. tain a new recreation center, game rowed when three students exceed­formance was a good one but ex­times. In assessing the war memorial, room, TV lounge and 24-hour ed the height limitation of five feet pressed some concern about 
Don't expect either building to be Dedrick confirmed that the monu­laundry. It will also hold three seven inches. following Jeff Anhut, last year's 100 percent complete in September, ment was originally scheduled to be Hughes said that for the com­"Dedrick said .. finished by commencement, but iee BUILDING, page 4 petition, participants were asked to ~ HUGHFS, page 4 
Radiation spreads as Soviets maintain wall of secrecy 
Associated Press report, the Soviet government theast, West German sources said. and why," Britain's foreign anything," a Ukrainian Health yesterday said two people were kill­Radioactive clouds, meanwhile, secretary, Sir Geoffrey Howe said Ministry official said yesterday, in 
MOSCOW -Up against a wall of ed in the accident and 197 others spread as far west as the Swiss Alps at a West European ministers' a typical comment. He was reached Soviet secrecy, Western govern­were hospitalized. But unofficial, and Norway, borne on mile-high meeting in Italy. by telephone by Moscow. ments urged their citizens yesterday unverified reports spoke of higher winds. His West German counterpart, Later in the day, the official to pull out of the stricken Ukraine, casualty tolls. European health officials Hans-Dietrich Genscher, called on news media carried a 300-word where a nuclear fire spewed more Those reports did not speak of reassured the public that radiation Moscow to shut down all nuclear statement by the Soviet Council of radiation across Europe and touch­potential long-term casualties, but levels presented no major danger. power stations similar to VIe cripple Ministers saying remedial measures ed off a storm of world outrage. the London-based Greenpeace en­But anger built up against the Chernobyl plant, which uses an . had reduced the radioactivity spill­
The Kremlin claimed radiation vironmental group estimated Soviets, who kept word of the unusual graphite-moderation pro­ing from the damaged reactor, and levels were dropping at the 10,000 Soviets would develop deadly nuclear event from the rest cess. "the radiation levels in the area of devastated Chernobyl nuclear cancer over 30 years as a result of of the world until Monday, three The Soviet government has the atomic power station (had been) power plant. But a Soviet diplomat what many consider history's worst days after it happened. thrown a wall of near-total secrecy lowered." was quoted as saying the inferno nuclear disaster. ''The Soviet Union has an obliga­around what happened last week at It said the chain reaction had was "out of control," and U.S. Some of Kiev 2.4 million people tion and duty to the international Chernobyl, a four-reactor complex been shut down and specialists were sources in Washington agreed. were fleeing the Ukrainian capital community to give the fullest possi­60 miles north of Kiev. 
In its most detailed casualty for Moscow, 450 miles to the nor-ble explanation of what happened "I am not authorized to tell you See SOVIETS, pageS 


~~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer 

Father Basil van Rensburg said he had begun the fourth week of his fast for divestment in a statement issued yester­day. Van Rensburg has asked Thomas Carney, chairman of the Board of Trustees, if he can meet with the Board as it meets on May 9 and 10 to reassess the University's investments in companies doing business in South Africa. The visiting educator said, "Although losing physical stamina, I remain in good health..." He has lost 31 pounds since he started the fast. -The Observer 
Dorothy Feigl, acting vice president and dean of facul­ty at Saint Mary's, will continue her present position for the 1986­87 academic year, College President William Hickey announced. At the time of her appointment to the vice presidency, Feigl was chairman of the chemistry and physics departments. -The Observer 
The biegest burrito ever will be rolled Saturday by members oTthe Fontana Youth Association in Fontana, Calif., in \he hopes of getting into the Guinness Book of World Records. The Guinness book has no burrito category, the group's founder, Ramon Ramos said, and when the association's director, Jim Young, researched the subject, he couldn't find a world record anywhere else. Eight people have been assigned to cook the beans. Additional ingredients will include cheese and perhaps meat, Ramos said. Then members will overlap flour tortillas and roll, hoping the beans act as an adhesive. -AP 
Bob Hope told a seminar that timing is the secret t~ com­edy, and he proved he is still a master. An attractive young woman at the session Tuesday at the Museum of Broadcasting in New York told him, "I think you're a smash." As she walked back to her seat, Hope got a big laugh just be watching her and replying, "You're not bad either.'' Hope, 83, said comic timing "is the most mysterious thing of all. There's no way you can teach it. you have to be born with it." Hope said he particularly admired Jack Benny's timing: "lots of comedians can milk a joke; he used to get chickenfat out of it.'' -AP 
The Seminole Indians have signed a contract for a bingo hall deep in the Everglades that will offer a rich jackpot, the tribe's lawyer said. "We have to make it attractive enough for peo­ple to come out there,'' Seminole counsel Jim Shore said Monday. Shore refused to say how high the stakes will be. At the tribe's Hollywood bingo hall, stakes run from $10,000 to $150,000. The 20-year agreement with Big Cypress Million Dollar Jackpot Inc., run by two Broward businessmen, calls for construction to begin this summer on a hall that would seat 5,000 people. Only two two­lane, unlit roads lead to the site, a pastureland on the tribe's 43,000-acre reservation, where 389 of the Seminole's 1,643 members live. The tribe will get a percentage of the profits, Shore said, but refused to give details. -AP 
Of Interest 
The '86 Dome can be picked up for the last time today from 3 to 5 p.m. at the Obudsman Desk in LaFortune. IDs are re­quired. -The Observer 
'87 An Tostal Chairman applications are now available in the Student Activities office on the first floor of LaFortune. Applications must be returned by Monday. -The Observer 

Weather 
Let Your Tan Lotion Fer­ment as it is partly cloudy today with highs in the low to mid 60s. Clearing and cool tonight with lows in the upper 30s to low 40s. Mostly sunny tomorrow with highs in the up­per 50s to low 60s. -AP 


The Observer (I ~~ '\~ .!·-tlltltl) '' puhl.-hnl .\toml;~\ throu~h h~<Ln t"xcrpt dunn~o: t'Xilm and ,.,.,·auon penod' The Observer" puhl"hrd h\ tht" 'tudt"nt• ol tht" I Ill\ t·r-.1\ of :-.lotrc Dame and '-aint "ill"\·, <.ollc!(t' "uh'<.·riptlon' mil\ hr pur<·ha•cd lor S~o pt:r yen ( l.!ll per "K"mc,tcr) h\ "'TillIt!( The ObKrvcr. P 1 l Hox 1). :'..;otrt· l>amr lnd1anJ -t6'\'\6 
The Ob§crver " " mrm~r of The Associated Pres..'\. All rcprodlll"llon n!(hl' otrt· rcvr\·cd 
Thursday, May 1, 1986 -page 2 
Mayor's crackdown on partygoers may be a rally for political SJipport 
It's getting harder and harder for a fella to get a beer around here. Just ask Jeff Morgan. 
This past weekend, Morgan, a Notre Dame sophomore, was at a party on Corby Street that was starting to get a little out of hand. The police arrived and tried to break up the little gathering, which had become a big gathering. 
Frustrated at the students' reluctance to leave, the cops trotted out the K-9 corps --the mean doggies. One thing led to another, and Morgan ended up with 22 dog bites on his arms, legs and other parts of his body. 
Yesterday, South Bend Mayor Roger Parent and police officials claimed the police were using the at­tack dogs to intimidate the students so they would leave the party more quickly. When you have a cou­ple of hundred people milling around, sometimes it's more effective to scare them off with snarling dogs than with snarling sergeants, they said. 
A point well taken. 
But Morgan was more than intimidated by the police dogs. He claims he didn't provoke the attack, that he was an innocent victim. The police claim he assaulted, or attempted to assault, the officer holding the leash of one of the dogs. A witness says Morgan was waving his arm to show the policeman he was leaving, leading to confusion. 
It is virtually impossible to know what happened. As you and I aren't judges, we can't pass judgment. Sooner or later, a real judge may have to be called in, as Morgan is considering taking legal action against the police. 
In a press conference yesterday in front of the house where the party and attack took place, Parent and the police presented reporters with a petition from area residents complaining about noise from student parties an'd the rowdin~ss of the partiers. 
The neighborhood people have a good point. How would you feel if 200 students were partying long into the night next door to your house while you were trying to sleep? Students should try to understand the complaints, and should be con­siderate of the neighbors. 
And many students do try to keep things under control. But lately, off-campus parties almost in­variably become flooded by roving bands of mostly underage students looking for a place to blow off a week of steam. Very often lawns get trampled by students caught up in the excitement of the party and people end up being obnoxious. That's when the police come and when the trouble usually begins. 
Very often, police will close down one party, follow the groups of students to the next gathering, and then close that one down. 
There are a couple of reasons for this vicious system. First, the alcohol policy succeeded in in­timidating many students into seeking thrills off­campus, rather than risk the wrath of their rectors and RAs in the dorms. 
Second, the local bars have suddenly dried up as 

LEAliE lEAVE NOTRE MICHIANA 
DAME REGIONAL 

BUS AIRPORT ARRIVE ARRIVE 
Dan McCullough 
Senior Staff Reporter 



for good, and the other bars have tightened up their security. 
Third, the reason bars and parties that students frequent have been clamped down upon is because somebody wants them shut down, namely Roger Parent. 
An election year is coming up for South Bend's mayor and things aren't looking so good, or at least they aren't smelling so good, for old Roger. 
Parent needs something to garner the support of the South Bend voters; something they can really ral­ly around; a common enemy, as it were. Hmmmm, let's see.... 
Hey! What about Notre Dame students? 
We are an easy target. The image of the Notre Dame student puts forth in the mind of many South Bend residents, accurate or not, is that of rich, spoil­ed children reaping the benefits of a first-class education while the hard-working citizens toil for their daily bread. 
Parent has the political smarts to capitalize on this hostility, even though the University is currently the number one employer in his city. After all, students can't vote. 
The result is the crackdown on the bars, and the "intimidation" of the attack dogs. 
LEAVE  ARRIVE  ARRIVE  
Me DONALDS  MICHIANA  NIJTRE  
ARRIVE  220 NO.  REGIONAL  DAME  
CHICAGO  LEAVE  MICHIGAN  LEAVE  AIRPORT  BUS  

SHELTER SOUTH BEND O'HARE MIDWAY DOWNTOWN MIDWAY DOWNTOWN O'HARE SOUTH BEND SHELTER 
•
3:20a.m. 3:40 a.m. 6:00 a.m. 8:30 a.m. I0:50 a.m. 11:05 a.m. 5:20a.m. 5:40 a.m. 8:00 a.m. 7:45 a.m. 8:30 a.m. 9:50 a.m.10:40 a.m. 10:30 a.m. 12:50 p.m. 1:115 p.m.7:ZD a.m. 7:40a.m. 10:00 a.m. 9:45 a.m.I0:30 a.m. 11:50 a.m.12:40 p.m. 12:30 p.m. 2:50 p.m. 3:05 p.m.9:ZD a.m. 9:40 a.m. 12:00 p.m. 11:45 p.m.12:30 p.m. 1:50 p.m. 2:40 p.m. 2:30 p.m. 4:50 p.m. 5:05 p.m.11:ZD a.m. 11 :40 a.m. 2:00 p.m. 1:45 p.m. 2:30p.m. 3:50 p.m. 4:40 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 6:50 p.m. 7:05 p.m.
1:20 p.m. 1:40 p.m. 4:00p.m. 3:45 p.m. 4:30 p.m. 5:50 p.m. 6:40 p.m. 6:30 p.m. 8:50 p.m. 9:115 p.m.3:20p.m. 3:40 p.m. 6:00 p.m. 5:45 p.m. 6:30 p.m. 7:50 p.m. 8:40 p.m. 8:30p.m. 10:50 p.m.11:05 p.m.5:ZD p.m. 5:40 p.m. 8:00 p.m. 7:45 p.m. 8:30 p.m. 10:30 p.m. • 10:30 p.m. 12:50 a.m. 1:05 a.m. 7:20p.m. 7:40 p.m. 10:00 p.m. * * * 12:30 a.m. 2:50 a.m. 3:05 a.m. 
ALL ARRIVALS AND DEPo~RTURES ON LOCAL TIME. CALL FOR COMPLETE LIST OF PICKUP POINTS & TIMES. 
FOR RESERVATIONS (219) 674-6993 .....-~ -­OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AGENT 
The Observer 
-----------------~-----~--------­
Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 3 
dent for Student Affairs, was not available ·for comment about the petition or the police actions last night. 
In addition to Morgan, police reported a number of other Notre Dame students who were arrested or given citations at off-campus parties last Thursday and Saturday nights. 
On Thursday night, John Scanlon, 23, of 601 E. Corby St., was delivered a citation for viola­tion of the city noise ordinance at a party held at his house. 
At the same party, Andrew Cross, 20, of Morrissey Hall, was arrested for public intoxication and resisting law enforcement. 
Also on Thursday night, Patrick Lynch, 18, of Flanner Hall, was ar­rested for public intoxication at a party on N. Notre Dame Ave. 
Steven Wulf, 20, of 814 Corby St., the owner of a house where a party was investigated by police, was delivered a citation for violating the city noise ordinance on Thursday night. 
Brian Dibona, 18, of Flanner Hall, was arrested on the 900 block of N. Notre Dame Ave. on Thursday night for public intoxica­tion. 
On Saturday night, Gary Hypes, 22, of 18195 Bulla Rd., was ar­rested for public intoxication and Thomas Sullivan, 18, of 765 Bever­ly Park, Jackson, Mich., was ar­rested for public intoxication, possession of alcohol and littering. 
Also on Saturday night, Dennis O'Brien, 19, of 172 Dillon, was ar­rested at Scanlon's Corby address for being a minor in possession of alcohol. 
Two students, Hemant Tiwari, 29, of E. Sorin St. and Michael O'Hagan, 20, of E. St. Louis Blvd., were delivered citations for viola­tions of the city noise ordinance. 
According to President of the Northeast Neighborhood Center Arthur Quigley, credit as well as blame should be given to students. 
The area residents generally have a good relationship with students, despite the problems of recent weeks, said Quigley, an associate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame. 
He said many students help residents through volunteer work. Through crime watches and cooperation between students and year-round residents, the quality of life has improved in the Northeast Neighborhood, he added. 
Celebrate Life I 
Help the 
<ij) 
March of Dimes . 
ANTI-VIOLBNCE VOLUNTI!DS 
Center for Tcachinl Non-Violence is sccJdna full.tiJDc staff. Lodlln& $150/mo., A: health COVetli(IC. One year commitment with 12000 ICplll'Stion stipend PubUc intcrcat raearcb and publiahinR on agra­sion, developing couracs on non­violence and opcratins National Coalition on Television Violence (1V, films, war toys, sports, etc.). Next to University ofllUnois. Student louis deferable. 217-384·1920. 

1960s author and social activist thrives on his ability to tell stories 
By CHRIS SKORCZ 
Senior StaffReporter 
Ken Kesey, author and social activist who rose to prominence during the 1960s, read from his soon-to-be-published novel "Demon Box" last night at Washington hall. 
Kesey, who prides himself on his ability as a storyteller, a talent he inherited from his grand­mother, read two stories. He then stepped away from the podium and offered his opinions on the problems the United States faces today. 
The first story he read is titled "Now We Know How Many Holes It Takes to Fill the Albert Hall." It is a bizarre tale of a visit paid to the Beatles' Apple Records Studio by several psychedelic drug users. After attending the Beatles' Christmas party, the visitors return to the United 
• States. Kesey, himself one of the visitors, is sought out by three in­dividuals, representing the past, present and future much as the ghosts of Christmas past, present and future visit the miserly Ebeneezer Scrooge in Dickens' "A Christmas Carol." 
His second story was one he learned from his grandmother when he was very young. Kesey credits his grandmother for in­stilling in him the rhythm necessary to keep a story moving along. 
This story, titled "Little Tricker the Squirrel Meets Big Double the Bear," is about resurrection, said Kesey. It is the story of a large bear who terrorizes and devours all his forest neighbors before be­ing outwitted by Tricker the Squirrel who lures the bear to the top of a tall tree from which the bear falls to his death. Upon hit­ting the ground, the animals whom he had devoured are releas­ed. 
Kesey concluded his talk in a rather informal fashion. After his readings, he assumed a seat on the steps of the stage, microphone in oracle" which Kesey likened to a barometer. Having used the 1­Ching for over 15 years, Kesey swears by its ability to forecast events in the user's life. 
hand.  He  shared  with  the  au­ 
dience  his  knowledge  of  the  
Oriental  1-Ching,  a  "binary  

He also used the opportunity to speak of his displeasure with the role the United States is playing in international disputes, particular­ly those in the Middle East. 
Kesey, who lost a son in an automobile accident several years ago, spoke of the profound sense of empathy he shares with the families who have also lost relatives as a result of American retaliation. He called for the use of peaceful terrorism in lieu of violent reaction. 
Kesey expressed regret at the "spiritual crisis" this nation is ex­periencing. He called for the use of the sort of "magic" found in personal, peaceful places such as the grotto here at Notre Dame. 
The magic of which Kesey spoke is the "ability to raise our eyes to heaven" in an act of faith in God's mercy. 
The lecture was the fourth in the Future Perspectives Series. 
Patrols 
continued from pagel 
who are disobeying the orders to move and disperse, and if you've only got four of five or six officers to do the job, you've got to disperse the people somehow and the only way to do it is with the dogs," said Cottrell. 
"And that's the reason the dogs were used Thursday night," Cot­trell said. 
The petition circulated among area residents said it was mainly a reaction to the recent wave of par­ties. · 
"On numerous occasions the South Bend Police Department has been called to disperse large and sometimes unruly crowds which have assembled for the sole pur­pose of getting drunk . . . . The University does not allow this type of behavior on campus, why should it allow it in our neighborhood?" reads the petition. 
Parent said he felt the University was doing all it could about the off­campus party situation. He said he met with University officials Tues­day. Parent said the officials could not go into details about actions they are taking because they are bound to confidentiality in matters of student disciplinary action. 
Father David Tyson, vice presi-

Now that you've made it through college, ask your parents for a graduation present to help you get through life. 
AMacintoshlM personal computer. 
If you're headed off into the 
business world, we highly recom­mend our new Macintosh Plus. 
Between its one megabyte of RAM, 128K of ROM and double­sided 800K internal disk drive, it 




--~----~----~---------~---------------..--.....----------~-------­
Thursday, May 1, 1986 -page 4 
The Observer 
Residents of Mexico City flee quake 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -A major earth­quake yesterday sent Mexico City residents fleeing into the streets and rocked four coastal states, creating panic reminiscent of that caused by last September's catastrophic tremor. 
But initial reports indicated yesterday's quake and two after­shocks caused no major damage or injuries. 
Mexican seismological experts said the quake measured 6.5 on the Richter scale and lasted 65 seconds. 
BUilding 
continuedfrom page 1 
businesses, two of them undesignated as yet. She said the basement will also house Bill Hickey's sweets shop. 
The first floor of the new wing in the student center will be the loca­tion of the new, expanded Huddle, Neal said. 
The second floor will contain the Student Activities Offices, the minority student lounge, the black student lounge and the interna­tional student lounge, she said. 
Neal added that roughly one-half of the floor space on the third story of the addition will be occupied by The Observer. Also housed here­will be the AM radio station, Ad­works, and publications: The Jug­gler, the Dome, and the Scholastic. 
Hughes 
continuedfrom page 1 
mascot. 
"I admire the spirit and enjoy­ment Jeff has brought to the leprechaun's character, but I hope to add something new to the posi­tion also," Hughes said. 
Hughes will be performing at all ofthe football games and most of the basketball games next year. "I 
see  it  as  my  responsibility  to  
become  the  embodiment  of  the  
Notre Dame spirit," he said.  

Hughes said he really enjoyed the different perspective of the game while actually being on the field in­stead of simply spectating from the stands during his debut. 
"I had a great time talking to alumni, getting my picture taken, and having people ask me for, my autograph," he said. 
Hughes is enthusiastically awaiting the upcoming season and he said he hopes to cheer the Irish to many victories. 
The Observer 
Assistant Production Manager 
• 
Salaried Position 

• 
Duties Include: super­vision, hiring, and training or layout personell 

• 
Previous design and layout experience Is preferred 


If Interested contact Chris Bowler at The Observer (239-5303) by 5p.m. Friday, May 2. 




The Observer Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 5 

Soviets 
continuedfrom page 1 
cleaning up "polluted sections" 
around the plant. 
Of the 197 people hospitalized, 
49 were discharged after a checkup, 
it said. The statement also criticizes 
Western news agencies for 
"spreading rumors" that thousands 
had been killed. 
But again, the Soviet statement 
offered little on the cause and ef­
fects of the accident. The most · detailed information came from in­

telligence and other U.S. sources in Washington, apparently obtained via U.S. surveillance satellites. 
Harold Denton, a safety expert at the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, told reporters it was unclear what touched off the reac­tor fire last Friday, but by Saturday it had evolved into a meltdown -the burning up of the uranium fuel core, an extremely dangerous event -and by Sunday a chemical explo­sion occurred that ripped the reac­tor building apart. 

He estimated the fire would burn 
for weeks, and U.S. intelligence 
sources, speaking on condition of 
anonymity, said a second Cher­
nobyl reactor had become involv­
ed, apparently in a meltdown. The 
fire ''is still not controlled," said 
one. 
Although Soviet ambassadors in several European capitals said the Chernobyl situation had been "stabilized," the Swiss envoy to Switzerland, Ivan lppolitov, was 
quoted by Swiss officials as telling them it was still "out of control." 
British diplomats pressed Soviet authorities for help in evacuating about 100 British travelers and students from Kiev and Minsk, 200 miles northwest of the nuclear plant and apparently in the path of radioctive winds. 
French, Finnish, West German and other foreign officials also issued travel advisories to their citizens. One diplomat, who would not be identified, complained that none of the embassies had received substantial information from the Soviets. 

"CJ'Qowehg {;on oQQ OC(;ogtottg Come in and Browse 
327lincohtway 232-3354 

. ·.} . . .... . .. . ;; 
United Parcel Service will be setting up A temporary customer counter for 
Thursday, May 1 
Shipping packages on the Notre Dame 6pm South Dining Haii­University Campus 
(WestWing) 
• 
Located at the Stepan Courts 

• 
Open Monday, May 5-Friday, May 9 from 10:ain to 6:00pm 


Note: Payment by check must be local check requires valid drivers license and student I.D. 




t;~.. 
~ ~0% Discount .rtot including sale items 
N.D..-S.M.C Students 

DIRECT DIAMOND IMPORTERS 
niversity Park Mall and Concord & Pierre Mor Malls -Elkhart 
'• 
T 
I 
I .\ 
----........--~------....,----------... 
View~_o_i_n_t_________
Th_u_rsd-ay_,M_a_yI_,I_9s6_-_p_ag-e6 
U.S.should follow European lead: open up on sex 
Did you ever initate a conversation about has an overall teenage pregnancy rate of is one of "a better informed teenager is a What to do? Get a clue. The Western sex with your parents? Did they ever initiate about 95 per 1000 girls, other countries, such more cautious teenager." European countries take the attitude that sex one with you? Would you? Would they? If as Holland, Sweden, France, Britain and Curiously, the attitude is just the opposite is a necessity in life, just like eating or sleep­your answer is no to any or all of these ques­Canada range from only 15 (Holland) to 45 in the US. Sex education is virtually non­ing. If the US follows this lead, demystifies tions, don't feel bad or left out, you are not (Britain) per 1000 girls; not even half the US existent, birth control and abortions, though sex and treats it as a normal part of life, it alone. rate. (These rates include those pregnancies not difficult to obtain, are certainly not con­will lead to greater teenage awareness of which result in abortion.) doned by the government (much less provid­their sexuality and a lower teenager pregnan­The difference? Simply put: Sex educa­ed for), and social services hardly compare cy rate, as the aforementioned countries
Michael Froning 
tion and an absence of moral judgment on with those of Western European countries. already demonstrate. sex by the government. Countries with lower The US, in its infinite wisdom, tends to take teenage pregnancy rates than the US in­the attitude of "what we don't teach our This is not to say the government should 
overseas 
evitably have governments which take teenagers, they won't know." Think again. pay for abortions and give us all free con­positive action towards the issue of sexuali­In fact, the Guttmacher survey found a traceptive devices. But exposure, openness, Most parents and childern in the United ty. This results in better (for that matter ex­direct correlation between a teenage a positive attitude at a young age towards States are victims of that old double stan­isting) sex education programs in schools at pregnancy rate and a lack of openness on sexuality and more comprehensive social ser­dard: sex is all right, as long as teenagers a young age, easier access to birth control sexuality by governments. In the institute's vices are a minimum requirement for com­don't know about it. Most parents subscribe and abortion and better social services for words: "In no country (except the US) was batting \he outrageous teenage pregnancy to thls view, and treat sex as a taboo subject, pregnant teenagers. Yet teenagers are not there an effort by government to prevent sex rate in the US. The US needs to dispose of refusing to teach their children the facts of necessarily more sexually active in these or encourage chastity." its attitude that ignorance of their sexuality life. Rather, the parents let their children countries than their American counterparts, The problem with the US's reactionary at­will keep teenagers out of trouble. It is simp­learn on their own, which inevitably means they are just better informed. titude towards sex, is that teenagers reach ly not true. We cannot afford to let they learn the hard way. In Sweden, the reproductive process is puberty at an age of 12 or 13 as opposed to teenagers make irreversible mistakes out of 
This is duly reflected in the teenage taught beginning at the age of seven and 14 or 15 as it was at the turn of the century. ignorance. Unfortunately, human sexuality pregnancy rate of United States teenagers. students learn about birth control by the age And an uneducated, sexually curious is not like a math class where if you add one In white teenagers, the rate is 83 pregnancies of 12. In Britain and Holland, birth control teenager of this age is dangerous for obvious plus one and get three, you start over. per 1000 girls and in black teenagers, the rate is virtually free to teenagers, courtesy of the reasons. Not knowing better, the uninform­is a startling 163 pregnancies per 1000 government. And in France, one private ed teenager is far more likely to experiment girls. birth control firm commits every Wednesday with sex to learn about it than to ask at Michael Froning is a sophomore currently 
This may not seem like a lot, until com­afternoon to group discussions for school or home about it, especially consider­studying in the Angiers,France study pro­pared with other countries. While the US teenagers. The common theme throughout ing the attitude of most parents. gram and is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
Make motives clear to all: justice, not profit 
An open letter to Father Hesburgh: would probably expect, our discussion then University a sting of financial repercussion tion at the end of the corporate leash. hit on apartheid -the acid test as one of us and lost revenue are avoided by you and, as a Please, Father Hesburgh, let's make a 
Our lunchtimes are a routine affair. We called it. consequence, the University. But we would stand. Let's give support to those trying sit around a table in our offices in the Our conversation really picked up : like to tell you it is a sting we want to share. through the peaceful means of civil disobe­Cushing Building and enjoy each other's "We can really show the way," said one. A sting that would let us say we, the Notre dience to upheave the terror of apartheid. company. We discuss a lot of things. Sure, "If we divest now, it will probably cost a Dame community, were a voice of support to they include work and our everyday con­few endowments but that's the price you pay those suffering in South Africa. A sting that Let Notre Dame make it clear what is im­cerns. We may even get a bit silly and spend for being witness to a cause," offered would allow us to celebrate during the portant to its community. Let us divest. a lot of time talking about nothing at all. another. resulting hardships of our action. Many people, including our little gathering, 
"Anyway, the students and faculty sup­will be that much more proud to be iden­port divestment -the University's voice is We have no right to judge you and the tified with this great University. 
Bill Clarke 
clear." trustees, Father Hesburgh, but there does 
John Mundell Then we started postulating. "Imagine if seem to be an alarming correlation between Bill Clarke and John Mundell are Notre we not only divested but that Father this University's stand on issues and the posi-Dame graduate students. Hesburgh was an outspoken advocate for
guest column 
divestment." The conversation picked up. But one day, we started talking about a "Yes, with 55 million Catholics here in the 
P.O.BoxQ
common concern. You see, we are all a bit U.S., and a bit of response to Father Ted's worried with events happening around the call, those corporate bucks would really start world so fast that it is impossible to fully to drain from South Africa." 
himself, and it follows that for us to claim a
comprehend what is going on. Surely you 'Retributive justice' right of revenge is to trespass against God'sget the same feeling; terrorist hits, insurgen­''Offered with some prayerful intentions, prerogatives.
cies, Presidents fleeing and superpowers the gesture of divestment would certainly should be left to God jostling each other are problems becoming publicize the apartheid issue," said someone If we have a proper and sober respect for more and more familiar. We would be silly eagerly. Dear Editor: our own salvation, it would seem that we to think that our lunching group could do We got pretty excited. Imagine that; a In his letter of April 25, Kevin Smant writes could in no way wish for the death or harm . anything alone to cure some of these pro­divestment by Notre Dame with your sup­of the recent raid against Libya, "Can it not of any person. And while we most certainly blems. However, we didn't agree to despair port doing all that. According to the leaders be that the act, in itself was just?.. To me, can hope that the world may become more because we have always thought our collec­of the majorities in South Africa and those simple justice demands it." Surely Mr. just, it is hardly fitting for us to wish retribu­
tive voice together with the rest of the Notre South Africans here on campus, that kind of Smant does not need to be reminded, tion upon another, when we ourselves shall Dame community could be heard through thing could do the trick. however, that if retributive justice were the one day stand before God, who knows even you. Here was a man, we thought, who was Silence. A return to reality. We forgot. last word, we should all be doomed to both our hidden faults. Our Lord has commanded 
a clear and sharp voice to the conscience of You don't support divestment. The guys at death and damnation. There is no indication us to love our enemies, to return good for Americans; a leader of civil rights; a man our gathering didn't bring up the question of that divine justice differentiates between harm, and to pray for those who persecute who has stood out on a limb for what is your motives. We have heard you explain an degrees of wrongdoing, and it is only God's us. This is hard, and against our natures, and right; a man Time magazine listed as one of active engagement strategy on a number of freelly given grace and mercy that can raise often against our better judgement. But the moral leaders in the U.S. today. This is occasions. But how can the University claim us from our graves and deliver us from per­whoever would follow Christ must also bear what we had heard and come to believe to be morally assessing the issue of apartheid dition. If our own salvation is contrary. to his cross. Christ also said that whoever puts before arriving at Notre Dame. We then when its objectivity is tainted by profits from "simple justice", it would seem that we his hand to the plow and looks back is not fit reflected and tried to remember whether the the apartheid system? should be wary of waving the banner of for the Kingdom of Heaven. The way of the University, through you, had ever voiced an Surely our strength lies in our string moral retribution, or of tying it to the spear of cross is painful, and the life in which we try opinion that verified this commitment to conviction and not in our weak financial vengeance. to obey Jesus may be hard and brief. But the justice at the expense of the material welfare lever~ge. How will anyone hear of our call Moreover, the guilt of the offender, and his way of the cross is the only way, and the life of this University. We're sorry to inform for justice through the shroud of such a self­desert of punishment, do not in themsleves of obedience to Jesus is the only life worthy 
you of our poll -it had not. At least, it had serving policy? give to any other individual the right to pass of being Jed. not in our memory. And so on this note, Then we made an observation. It seems all judgement or to execute the sentence. The Steven Horst we became a little despondent. As you options of any consequence that will give the Lord claims the right of vengeance for Department ofPhilosophy 
Doonesbury Garry Trudeau 
I IJICJIII'T I fXX'IT. 7Hc IT SURe PA/lJ Off. F'WPl& IT 5HOU!J1. THAT'S KNOW '1Vll f?t.C!Pe WA$ CAN1'iCCM TO tJeT&NOIJGH ITCCR-WI?.. 7lJP-(}f-TH£­1<11EiUANY-8A5CI? ONM4R-OF "C4PTAIN aYtJE"3"! IN A TA!NlY liNe MOPU.' IT'S 
! 
7HING AFJa!T Ker~. RCJ<L£ MARJ<eT, 7HI~ 15ON& UJO/(lj {(X)% /JA'TT[;I?..-FflU! 8Af(JN6, CJIOCOI.ATe 01/P "-.. 1?101.
\ \
av&E. COOK!& /.(//lH t£65.' 
\ \ 
Quote of the Day 
"Nothing is guaranteed. But, the more work you do, the more the odds are in your favor." 
Bonnie St. John Rhodes Scholar, amputated-leg skier People Magazine, 1986 

VieWP-Oint Thursday, May 1, 1986-page7 
----------------------------------------------~~~~~----~~ 
Today's Church will seem foolish in future years 
Twenty-five years ago, the Catholic Church was a markedly different institution from the one we know today. Priest said Mass in a language few of their listeners understood very well, and they said it with thier backs to their congregations. Parish councils did not exist; lay people had virtually no role in the Church. In accordance with Church law, the faithful denied themselves food and drink (including water) from midnight the night before Mass until they received communion the following day, and every Friday they abstained from meat. To break these rules was a sin. 
Greg Stohr life goes on 
If you long for those "good ol' days," stop reading this clumn and check out P.O. Box Q or something. I think most Catholics, though, are quite happy no longer to have to 
RASTA needs help 
His palms searched the sky. Though his eyes were Stone. The answers remained Unsung, unstrung 
But everyday He wondered more ... Echoes vibrated in His heart-The sound It was hollow. Loveless, doubtful, hopeless He did not try for more In a trance he begged, Thinking he deserved. Sinking Under his own weight He felt the bottom. In the strange uncomfortable Depth With palms still outstretched He dared to look up And he saw He knew Then he Gave And full of Love, he played The melody Of his Answer. 
Please help the RAST A cause. 
Lara Naughton RASTA 

Lack of sense caused problems at Mardi Gras 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to a recent article in the Scholastic on "New Orleans Hospitali­ty" in which the author and a few friends at­tended Mardi Gras and encountered a few problems. Although we cannot deny that the events did occur, we want to emphasize that the vast majority of problems at Mardi Gras are self-induced or easily avoidable by exer­cising common sense. Urinating on a car in front of policemen just might be considered an example of poor common sense, a necessity in any major city and a minor pro­vision in a situation such as Mardi Gras. In addition, he mentions he was mugged; if you wear $300 worth of gold and use the facilities by yourself in a relatively secluded area, you toil under such archaic traditions. They realize, as did those enlightened Church leaders at the Vatican II Council, that Catholicism should stress the message of Christ (love of God and neighbor) and not technicalities. They understand Church rules should help members become like Christ, not inspire awe or fear of "sinning," as did many pre-Vatican II tradtions. 
These Catholics can look back on the Church of 1956 and say, "Boy, I sure am glad we don't do that anymore." They see their predecessors as far too concerned with the technicalities of their faith and not enough with its essence. They might wonder how their religion could have ever been so misguided, and they wish it could have realized its errors earlier. 
Life works that way. When we as United States citizens reflect on the pre-Martin Luther King era, we are appalled that our na­tion could have maintained such cruel, discriminatory practices. Notre Dame looks back and is astonished it ever survived with nQ parietals at all. This phenomenon is an effect of liberalization -people moving away from mindless traditions, whether they be subjugation of blacks or saying Mass in Latin, and toward reason. Society sees itself in hindsight and finds a history full of folly and devoid of reason. 
Likewise, 25 years from now the Church will probably reflect on 1986 and wonder about itself. What now seem to be wholesome guidelines will be seen as nonsensical regulations. Perhaps it will finally recognize that many Catholics and would-be Catholics are bored with the monotony of the traditional Mass, just as many tired of Latin masses years ago, and the Churchwill make great changes in the basic structure of the Mass. It might discover the folly of refusing to allow those who realize mistakes they made years ago to correct their errors through divorce. Perhaps it will realize the uselessness of 
are asking for trouble. Furthermore, they 
were arrested for crossing a police barrier, 
treated poorly in Central Lock-Up, and 
taken for a ride by a cabbie. 
Many of us have spent all ·our lives in New 
Orleans, enjoying the city and never ex­
periencing a story comparable to theirs. 
New Orleans hospitality is something many 
of us are yet to discover in any other city. 
Our hospitality comes from the people in the 
streets, in the bars, in the stores --where one 
would expect it; we are not surprised people 
are not hospitable in Central Lock-Up. In 
closing, we would like to emphasize that 
Mardi Gras and New Orleans, despite its 
laissez-faire nature, is no different from any 
other major city in its need for prudence. 
The hardships those students incurred were 
in large part their own fault. 
John Gisleson Robert Charbonnet New Orleans Club members 
Great sport of soccer worthy of U.S. support 
Dear Editor: 

Finally, it's coming close. The Soccer World Cup is just a few weeks away, and the whole world is almost at a standstill as it is getting ready for it. 
Every four years, on non-leap even years, the best teams from around the world gather to compete in the Soccer World Cup, the most important sport event on earth. Mex­ico will host this year's event (the 1990 World Cup will be in Italy), and 24 countries wiii compete from May 31st till June 29th. 
The United States will not participate in the Cup for they were knocked out last year in the elimination rounds by Costa Rica. Some improvement needs to be made in the level of soccer in this country if it wants to compete on an international level, but this can only be done by popularizing soccer, i.e. by showing it more interest and less apathy. Following this summer's World Cup is a first step. 
A few years ago, former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger used his influence to try to convince the International Soccer Federation to let the United States host this year's World Cup. At that time, the site was still to be voted for, and a few places in South, Central and North America were candidates. 
The choice of Mexico came as a logical one to most people. First of all, the 1970 World Cup held there was one of the most 
successful ever. Their soccer stadiums are 
very good, the biggest of which is the Aztec 
Stadium in Mexico City with a capacity over 
100,000. Furthermore, the television station 
in Mexico City is one of the biggest in the 
world, and world-wide picture transmission 
is excellent there. 

The latter point is a factor that could have been used to choose the United States as the site for the World Cup, for it is well known that the communication network in this country is the best in the world. However, other factors weren't favorble. One of them is the lack of popularity soccer enjoys here. Although more and more people are practic­ing the sport, especially among the very young, soccer is still just the fifth or sixth sport, and that's being generous! Soccer is more popular around the world than all the other sports combined, but somehow it has still some difficulties finding its way in this country. 
Furthermore, what prevents soccer from becoming more popular is the little interest the TV networks seem to be showing toward this sport. The reason here seems to be of a commercial nature, for soccer does not have any time-outs or stopping of the clock which allows networks to fill a game with commer­lingering regulations regarding the type of foodCatholicsmay eat on specific days dur­ing Lent. The Church likely will see that many of today's rules have remained in ef­fect not because they are valuable as guidelines but simply because of the law of inertia. It will wish it had changed itself earlier. 
But why should we not change it now? Why are we afraid to alter what we know we will soon recognize as a nonsensical conven­tion? Why delay improving our faith? To stagnate merely for the sake of retaining traditions is ludicrous. The Church must carefully consider each one of its rules and teachings and ask, "Does this really promote the essence of Christ's message?" If the answer is "no," then it should hastily correct its error. To do otherwise is to make a fool of itself. 
Greg Stohr is enrolled in the Freshman Year ofStudies and is Assistant Viewpoint Editor. 
P.O. BoxQ 
cials. When broadcasting a soccer game live on TV, there is absolutely no room for com­mercials (except at half-time!). 
Another factor that was looked into was the conflict of the Cup with some important sport events in the U.S. The baseball season is just underway and will be well covered by the networks this summer, and the first week of the Cup wiii coincide with the finals of the NBA World Championship. 
This 1986 World Cup should be a good opportunity to popularize soccer in this country. Rumors have it that NBC will carry the event, but how extensive the coverage wiii be remains to be seen. Soccer is too beautiful a sport to be apathetic about it, and it really is a shame that the most popular sport in the world have so little friends in the most athletic country on this planet. If you are a soccer fan, then I'm sure that you can't wait for May 31 to come, and this article may not have told you anything new. If you're not, then give it a try, and chances are you'll catch the soccer fever. And, why not, come 1994, you might even want the United States to host the Soccer World Cup! 
At any rate, please give soccer a chance. 
Ranzi Bualuan Graduate Student 
' 


General Board 
The Observer 
Edttor-in-Chtef. . . . ............. Joe Murphy Busmess Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Edttor. ............... Kevm Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Edttor. . . ... Scott Bear by Production Manager. . . . . . . . . . . Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Accent Edt tor. . . . . . . ........... Mary Jacoby Adverttsing Manager ... ...... Anne M.Culligan s1ty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saml Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Samt Mary's Editor.... . .... Margie Kersten Photography Manager. . ... Drew Sandler policies of the admin1slral1on of e1ther 1nstilullon. The news is reported as accurately Executive News Editor. ............ Frank Upo Systems Manager. . . . David Thornton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of News Edttor . . . .............. Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . . . Mark Weimholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Edttor. ................ Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varymg opinions on campus, through letters. is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 


l ·. 
Accent 
Thursday, May 1, 1986 -page 8 
Reggae with a message Parade receives 
I.'l 
' i
l
TIM ADAMS 

KRIS MURPHY and KEVIN 
features writer 

i 
WALSH 
~I 
features staff writers
I 
i 
Dallol's first album, Land of the 
1J

Genesis, is a lively and diverse of­
Hi, I'm Kris Murphy, resident col­fering of reggae, united with the umnist, electrician and conossieur ::u ii 
Ico:mnton theme of love and help­of fine syncopated noises. l l[ 
ing. This group, whorelocated to Hi, I'm uh, Kevin Walsh, and I'm 
II 
" 
' ~ 
Chicago from Ethiopia, has been not really sure a) what fine syn­z playing in the U.S. since 1979, and copated noises are and b) why I'm
,, 
()

.. I 
with the help of Rita Marley, wife reviewing a Prince record. the late, great Bob Marley, they rn have put out a solid debut LP. 
Records
Records 

~\\, . Parade Land of the Genesis 
\\ '~ '****(outoflour) )> z 
0

M: This is the new Prince record, Parade, his eighth album. 
Saturday Notre Dame and Saint 
W: For chrissake, nice album
Mary's students will be able to hear _,
cover. Put a shirt on. At least
Dallol's music live in a Rally 
cover up his bellybutton. 
Against Starvation -sponsored 
I 

concert at Stepan Center. 
M: The cover looks like Dirty
The music of Dallol is at times rn
Mind, but the sound is definitely
I 
cheerful and upbeat, as on the 
different. He seems to have opted 
opening cut, "Selam," but at times 
for a cross between the heavily or­
the mood of the music matches the 
chestrated, psychedelia of Around 
lyrical pensiveness of some tunes, 
the World in a Day and the 
such as "Genesis," adelicatenumber 
danceable funk of 1999. The sound stuff sounds fresh to me. It all
about their home continent of song styles. Sure there are the What Dallol does wish for, 
is stripped down, but the album sounds similar to other things
Africa, and "Sail Along," which traditional Jamaican-influenced however, is for the world to be 
gives the listener an impression of Prince has done before. Granted,
features a mellow arrangement reggae numbers, with their jerky in­united. Their optimistic message is 
density. the guy is the most important black 
punctuated by the occasional use of terplay of bass and rhythm guitar best summarized in "Love is Com­
W: Yeah, the density of Prince's artist since Little Richard, but I just 
horns. (and keyboards), but Dallol cuts a ing," an ingenuous plea for 
skull. Why don't we try to make a expect him to come out with some
Along with ''Selam," an infec­pretty wide swath on this album. everyone to help eachother, for 
million top-10 songs that all sound new direction. I think he did the
tious song featuring a mean dance "Ashkaroo" veers much to the side fear of the world's end. It goes: 
the same...er, all the same syn­best dance record anyone ever has 
groove, "Hoya Hoye" and "Nice of funk, showing off the almost 
copated noises ... with 1999, but, for me, that doesn't 
Feelings" look to be concert Funkadelic-like keyboads of Peopleofthe world 
do much. I just think that it's time 
highlights. "Hoya Hoye" is a mid­Melaku Retta and Dereje Mekkon­We all must understand 
M: There you're wrong, big guy. for Prince to ''try a new position."
tempoed singalong number that nen, spiced up with an interesting We've got to live together 
This is an extremely eclectic record. 
sticks in your mind as soon as you array of percussion by Asrat Join hand in hand 
The album uses everything from M: You're missing the point and a
hear it. Slow dancers, be ready for Aemro Sellassie. This song segues Peace to the world 
tubas to scartch/funk guitar. The lot of good music because you
"Nice Feelings," as the soothing into a pretty ballad, "Mr. DJ," Love to everyone 
songs range from the psychedelic refuse to take Prince seriously. A
voice of Dallol chimes out a which reveals in the joy of reggae in Regardless ofcreed 
march of "Christopher Tracy's lot of people are turned off by his
reassuring message of happiness its lyrics, but at the same time, I Unity throughout the land 
Parade" to the cabaret ballad "Do blatantly sexual image and the
and, well, niceness. You won't be can see it getting played on a 
U Lie?" to the raunchy funk of often egotistical way he presents
able to resist that one. (progressive) top-40 station. Ap­Dallol will be spreading their 
"K'Iss. " H'e s never used so many himself, but the fact is that his man 
_One of the more interesting parently, Dallol does not wish to message of peace Saturday night at 
musical styles before. is a genius as far as modern pop
aspects of Land of the Genesis is become stuck playing just one type Stepan Center. It's up to you to 

W: You're right, but none of this music is concerned. He's eccentric, 
listen.
how Dallol covers a wide 

( 
Happy
. i 
TIM HEALY, RUSS HUMBERSTON GREG DeFILIPPO ' 
features writers 
'! 
When driving to the Happy House, expec­tations were high: happy times, good food, swell fortunes and cheery conversation awaited all -so it appeared. The Happy House is not happy. In the words of guest critic and chauffeur Emmet Murphy: "For a happy house, this place is sad. I don't believe it would have been a success during the Ming dynasty, an era that I well remember." 

Restaurant 

i:
! : 
**' 

The Happy House is a restaurant speckled with strife and riddled with turmoil. First of all, the waitress had a quick temper and a short fuse. She seemed irritated by the many inqu~ries about the menu. Evidently, the in­gredients of Jar Do Guy, Chow Guy Kew and Loong Ming Ting should have been ob­vious. Upon close observation, however, it became apparent that the stress and pressure to which this poor girl was subjected could only be manifested in her anger to the customer. We were her release valve, as it were. 
House 
The Observer/Dre-w Sandler 
Happy House ownerJang Mok with cook David Mark 
Patty acted as waitress, bus person, sweeper, water girl and cashier, while the owner and his wife sat at a table exchanging wistful conversation over kettle-brewed tea. She argued with them in clear view of the diners, most of whom were graying or balding, except for the San Francisco/M.ex­ico City hitchhiker whose only comment for the evening was "the owner just trips on that 3-D collage." 
The 3-D collage is just one of the many at­
•

IS hostile 
Amazingly, from this Far-East feudhaven f came a great meal: hearty and delicious. The traditional sweet-and-sour pork was a 
., delightful combination of tomatoes, green peppers, pineapple and pork served with stick rice. The Jar Do Guy was equally satis­fying. It consisted of beef, green peppers, H tomatoes and bamboo snaps . boo 
to t Other items included on the menu were oth4 various chicken, beef and seafood entrees. thai And for the vegetarians there is a fresh hoh vegetable chop suey or chow mein. Prices pris are reasonable for the quantity served, but if mor you order extra mushrooms it'll cost you fror bucks (three to be exact). Since there are no tori half-orders or splitting meals, and the at­mosphere is unsettling, carry-out is available 
and suggested. 

The number is 684-0484 and the Happy House is open until 9:00. When picking up your order bring cash. Checks or credit cards have been "nix" since someone named George Phillips passed a phony check there for $8.37. They have it taped to the wall 
tempts to create an oriental atmosphere. right next to the cash register. 
Each table has a Chinese lamp with a hand­
painted scene on it, and tassles are Also next to the cash register, you can pur­
everywhere. However, red cafe chairs, chase extra fortune cookies, mints or Mead 
bathroom tiles and brown paneled walls envelopes, but not stamps or stationery. 

defeat any positive effects created elsewhere 
in the res.taurant. Also, like any "fine" For those adventurous enough to dine in Chinese restaurant, the music played was a the hostile confines of the Happy House, it is Fi1 combination of Chinese folk tunes and Elton located on 3121 U.S. 31 North, 10 miles an John -blaring from the kitchen. And in this, north of the WNDU building. The phone Lc the Chinese ear of the Dragon or the Tiger, number is 684-0484 and the restaurant is be the Happy House displayed one of each. open unti19 p.m. y( 

Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 9 
''Money Pit'' is good for a few laughs 
mixed reviews Big World has energy 
about it. I think that's better than By DENNIS CORRIGAN trying to disguise it. He also seems Features Writer to have some new ideas about sex 
UJ as viewd by the line "Don't be too flirty mama, I know how to un­Joe Jackson is a dissatisfied0 dress me"in "Kiss." He seems to be man. After his 1982 release, Night and Day, Jackson decided he had
approaching the subject in a more
<( 

had enough of videos and decided
mature sense on songs like "Girls 
he would no longer make any to
and Boys" THAN HE DID IN
0:: support his albums. On his latest
SONGS LIKE "Let's Pretend We're 
release, Big World on A&M
<( Married." 
Records, Jackson has grown tired of conventional recording techni­
0.. W: That's true. I guess it's actual­
ques with their touch ups, overdubs ly the music that I object to. Latter 
z 
and special effects that make the day soul and funk seems to rely music seem overly slick and too much on this sex thing as a ultimately soulless. crutch for lyrics. Sam Cooke sang 
about love, not about "undressing me." I predict that Purple Rain,
r 0 
Records 
Prince's most guitar-based album 
Big World 

to date, will be the classic, not all \\
'-'\ '·. ·,.t­this synthesized funk/junk. \\\ 
***1toutof four) 

M: OK, Tipper. I liked Purple
:J 

Rain, but I think that Parade's ....J "Mountains" and 
To counter this, Jackson record­
"~otherloverholeenyohead" out 
ed the 15 tracks on Big World in the 0 do anything on that album for live setting of the Roundabout sheer aural punch, guitars or not. 
Theater in New York. After check­> This is Prince's best album to date. ing the levels in rehearsals, Jackson As suggested by its title, Big the same cynical message. The ar­UJ It's eclectic, well written, subtle and and his band played before the au­World touches on international as rangements again keep the album 
it sticks in your mind and in your dience, which was asked to keep well as domestic themes. On "The from becoming overly bitter, as do all but then again how many geniuses feet for days. I'm only hoping that quiet throughout the session, and Jet Set," Jackson sings of crass songs like "Tonight and Forever" i the resulting songs were recorded American tourists. On "Forty which Jackson yearns for mor

lgS aren't? he can out do himself again next directly to a two-track master Years" Jackson talks of the disaf­time with his lover. Jackson,
~d. W: So eccentricity is now an ex­time. recorder without overdubbing. fection between allies since World though, joins the current wave o 
lCk cuse for chauvinism and lack of W: I didn't like Parade, but then War II, while "Tango Atlantico" nostalgia when he sings of wantin liSt finesse? No, I think not. What again, I don't like Prince's musical The result is an album with all concerns itself with the British­to return to his "Hometown." 
me ever happened to the subtle sexual style. Asking me to pick a favorite the spontaneity and raw energy of a Argentinian Falklands conflict. On :he lyrics of ~ongs like "Shake, Rattle Prince album is kind of like asking concert but with the same precision these and other cuts Jackson turns 
laS and Roll," or "Louie, Louie?" that me to pick my favorite brand of Overall this album ranks with
sound of a studio recording. On a cynical eye to the topic but mixes 
n't was half the fun. When the PMRC frozen broccoli. I can't really win. the first few listenings, it's hard to it with superb musical ar­some of Jackson's best work. The ne has no problem spotting dirty lyrics I just have two questions that I'd believe that this was really recorded rangements, most notably on "For­songs are well-written and sharply " you know you're in trouble. The like to ask about Parade. Question live. But after listening again, the ty Years" with its lilting piano. Ad­performed. Jackson has long bee parents shouldn't be understanding number one: when is Prince going vocals, drums, guitars and ding to the international flavor of acknowledged as l. top-note da this stuff. to learn how to spell basic words keyboards all have the sound the album are its liner notes and songwriter and arranger, and Bi associated with a live setting, most lyrics in six languages. World only adds to his reputation. 
rou like "you" and "for?" Once he ac­
notably on songs like "Wild West," The main complaint with BiA M: That's not the point either. complishes this, he'll dispell all World is that its 15 cuts only tak
"We Can't Live Together" and
his those rumors that he was the
Prince doesn't talk about sex to "Soul Kiss." The overt guitar Yet Jackson also turns to themes up three album sides. Side four i the anger the PMRC. For Prince, sex original guy who misspelled Led 
sound of Big World returns the dealing with city life, "Wild West" blank. After listening to thr nts is a metaphor for the freedom and Zeppelin and Def Leppard. Ques­sides, it's a wonder why Jackso
sound of the album to that of about a Bernhard Goetz-type 

P.A.CIMINO 
features writer 

Have you ever come upon a crowded toll­booth, seen a short line and gotten in it only to have it move three times slower than any other? Well, if you have, you understand that what looks good on the surface may hold some unexpected and unwanted sur­prises underneath. This, in a nutshell, is the moral of the new movie "The Money Pit," from the shop of Steven Spielberg and direc­tor Richard Benjamin. 

Movie review 
''The MGney Pit" 

''The Money Pit" is the story of Walter Fielding (Tom Hanks of "Splash" fame) and his reluctant fiancee, Anna (Shelley Long of "Cheers") who decide to invest in a beautiful million-dollar house in the New York city suburbs. After they are forced to leave a Manhattan apartment due to the unexpected return of the owner, a famous Russian conductor and Anna's ex-husband (Alexander Gudonov), the couple buy the mansion in question for a fraction of its sup­posed selling price. They move in with the intention of converting it to their own dream house. Unfortunately, they got more than they bargained for. Much more. 
As soon as Fielding puts the key in the front door things begin to happen. The doorbell shorts out, the door falls off and the plumb­ing spews obnoxious green sludge. Little by little the house shows its worst faults and soon the staircase collapses and the bathtub falls through the floor. This gets old rather quickly, and it's reminiscent of little nasty gremlins incessantly tearing a town apart. Spielberg plays this deteriorating house bit a little too far. When this finally ends, Fielding calls numerous contractors to help him rebuild the house. Their work practices are slightly unusual, though, and provide 
some of the  more humorous  scenes  in the  
movie.  
Hanks is  his usual comedic self and is  

likable as a man who is forced to live through more home improvement problems (and bills) than can be considered natural. He has long held a monopoly on puzzled ex­pressions and uses many of them in the film with amusing results. 
At times, though, consecutive scenes find Hanks' character acting first intelli~ently and then stupidly. This occurs throughout the movie, and the viewer is often compelled to yell obscenities at the screen in disbeliev­ing frustration. 
On the other side of the duo is Long. She was terrific as a hooker in Ron Howard's "Night Shift," but here she falls on her face. She plays Anne in a guarded way, almost as if she is unsure what to do with the part. Even right to the end, her character remains removed and does not complement Hanks at all. Also, Long was pregnant during shooting for "The Money Pit," and some scenes find her paunchier than others. Well, even the wonders of modern technology can't change nature. 
There are also some bright spots in the movie. Gudonov is terrific as a vain, self­centered conductor and has some of the film's funniest lines. He plays his character to the hilt while remaining believable. The best performers in the movie, though, are the contractors and their workers. The majority of the movie is supposed to be taking place in the northern suburbs of New York, and this fact alone calls for characters with certain demeanors. The contractors are money­grubbing jokers who employ aliens and criminals. They realize that Fielding needs them desperately and naturally milk him for all he is worth. 
The workers, meanwhile, are more con­cerned with eating, reading the paper, or watching Anne than anything else and take 

....,..,, ... 
·~ 
Tom Hanks 

their time no matter how urgent the project. The beauty of these portrayals is that they are not just comic. They hold a modicum of truth as any New Yorker will quickly notice and add some interesting humor to the film's immediately stale premise. 
On the whole, "The Money Pit" is a good film. It contains a number of script and character problems which Spielberg should keep to a minimum. Yet even so, the film garners some strong laughs and makes for a good time. 
1an abandon he finds in his music. For tion number two: where did Prince Jackson's first three releases, Look character and "Man In the Street", didn't write more songs. As it is, Big World leaves this listener ask
K>P Prince, sex is just as much a part of get the lines "Sometime it snows in Sharp!, I'm the Man and Beat about the government's apathy ric, life as music is and he's honest Aprin" It never snows in April ... Crazy. towards the ordinary person, with ing for more. 



The Observer Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 10 


These are not weekly specials. These are e"eryday ALDI~ low priees. 
3207 Llncolnway West 
929N.Eddy
South Bend, IN 
South Bend, IN 
Mon.·Thurs.: 9am· 7pm 
Mon.·Thurs.: 10om· 7pm
Friday: 9am. Spm 
Friday: 9am •Spm
Saturday: 9am •6pm 
Saturday: 9am. 6pm
Closed Sunday 
Closed Sunday 



uees 
Paper Plates 

coated, 100 ct. 791a 
was89¢ ~ 
Tomato Real Ameriean Paste Real Swiss Cheese 
grade A fancy indiv. wrapped slices, 12 oz. 6 oz. 
99ewas $1.19
2se 
was 29¢ 

Chareoal
r--­Briquets 20 
pound bag 

Fruit Cocktail .e91A 
choice quality, heavy syrup, 16 oz. .. ~ Pineapple, fancy quality. sliced. 59e 
chunk, crushed, juiCe pk.• 20 oz. • •• Irregular Peaches . 59e 
California. 29 oz. •............. Asparagus 69e 
grade A fancy, cut. 14.5 oz...... 

~e~~h:~~~:. 4 oz ......., ..39e ~:e~rf:C~. ~::~:. .........25e 
Whole Kernel or Cream 

25e 
StyleCorn,gradeAicy.. 165oz.• 

::~~ f~~-s16 oz ...........25e ~~~~~ -~~.~~~~~-..........39e !~:~~a!~.~co~ ••••••••••• ; .J9e ~h~~~.e~-~-~~~~-~-~~~..•..25e ~h~!~ ~i~~ .~~~~.~ ...........59e ~ao~~~ -~~~.~~~~~ ••.••••.•••39e ~2uor::~~-~~. ~~~~ ••••.•••.•••89e 
Potato Chips 
reg. ripple, BBQ, sour cream & onion half· pound bags 

~;:;c~~~~~~. ~.~~~.~~~~-~. 99e ~e~t~~~~. ~~·-..............89e ~~~:r~~~~ ~~. ~~~~~ .......79e 
Cake Mix, white. devirs food 
Jl9e 
or yellow. 18.5 oz...............~ ~r~zw~~~.~~~ ............... 69e ~o:zn ~~-~~~.~ •..••••••..••...89e f:~!t ~~~~~~.~ ..................SJ59 ~:;:~~~r~~r~!. •••••••••••• 69e ~2a:zca~~. ~~.~ .•.....•....•••69e ~2v:zP~~~~~~. ~i.'~ ...........39e 
100"/o Pure Orange Juice 99e 
grade A fancy, 46 oz............ 100% Pure Grapefruit 89"" 
Juice, grade A fancy. 46 oz. • • • ~ !~:·~~a~~.~~: oz............59e :~!~: ~~~~~4 oz............99e 
2 Liter Soda Pop 
root beer, cola, orange, lemon/lime 
lmitadon Am. Cheese 
indiv. wrapped slices 12 oz. 
69e 
was 89¢ 
grade A fancy 
32 oz. 
Peanut Butter, creamy or 89e chunky. grade A fancy. 18 oz..... 
11
~r:r. ~-~ • ~ ................. 79e :~~~::: 12 oz...............39e ~fo~9 ~~1 • ~~ -~~~~-r-~~.1 •••• 69e ::ng~~!~ 1~~~~~~~-~~~-~~.. 3&e ~c:zro~i. ~-~~-~~~~ ...... J9e ]~!:~~;~~~~~...............39e 
Bathroom nssue 
59e 
single ply. 4 roll pkg. .. ......... Satin Soft Complexion or 29e 
Deod. Bar Soap, 5.25 oz. • • 
~~!~~~ 3~eJI ~~~~~~-........S499 :~~.~i~~.~-:.?!~ .............49e ~~~-~.~~~ .................49e ~~~ ~~!.~.~~~~~ .........39e ~~ p~:r~t~s~~ ..............sr 

HamburJ!eror Hot Dog lions 
8p(/Jk. _.
_.tt, '. ~. 
.,~ a'
.•' 
' 
~~2! 29e 
~~~~:,'!::;~ ·~-~~..~~..........SJ99 
Garden Hose S.e99 
5/8' nylon reinforced, 50 ft.. .. .. .. .. 
Corn Broom or Dust Mop 5249 
each $3.49. less $1.00 rebate only 
Citgo Motor Oil 
10W30 or 2 quarts 10W40 
reg. retail $1.69 less rebate $1.00 
youpay 
69n 
only ~ 
Clairol Condition 
~t!m.~~.~ .~~-~~~~~i-~~.~~. 99e 
Clalrol Mousae SJ29 
normal or extra control. 6 oz. •••••• 
~!!~~.~~!h & rugged. ea.••••69e 
BoiOS!na or Beefllologna 
Herrud or Corn King brand 
sliced, 12 oz. 89A 
was99¢ ~ 
Chunk Bologna 
2-3 lb. pkg. 
8
1}"perlb. 17~ was 99¢/lb. 
Salami 
coolted, sliced 
12oz. 89C! 
was 99¢ 
100% Pure 
Frozen 
OrangeJuiee 
grade A fancy 12 oz. 

~-~2!69e 



©1888 ALDIInc. 

We •lcOme caetl end foocl ...mpa. ~lc check• .,...... Tbe Stoek-Ur Store: 

___________________________..._,..._______ 
The Observer Thursday, May 1, 1986 -page 11 
/h,-flh.\t·rr···,· '"'rt J)Jflt< "'It•• l"•·•••d ..ntlu· tlurd t] ....r "' l.lf.,rlllll\ 'tudnll ( •·ntt r .uc.-pt' tl.t"tficd J<h< rll'lll~ lr"m'l .1111 unttl 1 I' 111 \J.,ndJ\ thrnu~h lrtdJ\ 1/wiJIJ.,errt•r'Jtllt \l.tn '""••• l••<.Jitd••ttth•. thtrdtl••••r••l II.Jio(~Jr ( llllc·~·· ( llltc·r .H ···rt• l l.t,,tlic "' lrlllll I 2 ~~~ I' Ill unrtl ~ rIll \IIIII dJ\ tlt"uJ.:h lrtdJ\ llc.tdltnc l11r nc '\t d.l\ ti.t"tltt<h ,, ~ p 111 \II d.t"tltnh 11111'1 hc· prcp.ttd nth< r 111 p.-r"lltoor In r11.11l ( ltJr).!< t• Itt cent' pc r lt\c·c h.tr.H
Classifieds 
tc·r, c·r dJ\ 
I lost a large set of keys last week on SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, DESPERATELY SEEKIN SUSAN!! Or Mr. Stanford Contest1 MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM­a gold NO chain. If found call John at Adams High School. One-half mile anyone else who can sell me two Mr. Stanford Contest! MER! TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call 
272-3388.

NOTICES 
commencement tickets. My parents Mr. Stanford Contest! 272-8280 weekends, 272-9181
from campus. Nov. thru Feb. Two practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap­have already been shut down for din­Mr. Stanford Contest! weekdays. ner tickets Saturday night. Let them Coming Sat. May 3rd 7:30pm at
prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz at 288­Typing Availeble 
USS NO lifesaving ring taken out of watch their favorite youngest son Washington Hall! M.A. Buon divertimento 
4655 . 

• 287-4082 
South Dining Hall Friday is worthless graduate. HELP· Call Paul at 277-tanti augurl to you but most valuable to the Need ride to Sarasota, Florida, Call Rob 1913. TOCCAATE owner. Please return to either dining 1772 
RASTA T-SHIRTS
TYPING 
hall -no questions asked. this at the G-1 have the key to your steel
CALL CHRIS Available WNk dining
I need Commencement tixs something or another. Now is this the
halls!
234-1117. 
LOST: yellos "grace hall" key Chain. Please call Geoff CHASTITY Ball or the CHARITY Ball? Please call 283-3810 for reward or 289-3499 ·M
FOR SALE
leave with rector, Fr. Lardner. ThankWordprocessing-Typing 
you NEED A JOB THIS SUMMER? LIVE IN 
GLAMOUR POSTERS. Don't let that272-8827 
MACINTOSH 400K EXTERNAL DRIVE' MILWAUKEE? Work on the lakefront,
special guy or girl forget you during 
Found: Casio watch 4/27 at Stepan $260.00 PAT 283-4255 flexible hours. Call 1264 (Kristen) for
the summer! Give a photo poster by 
PERSONALS-]

Courts. Call Steve 4366 to claim. published Info, inter~iew.
Typing!Wordprocesslng nationally model 277-8131 photographer, Joe Ringer. 287-0613. Found one basketball at Lyons 
You're invited For Sale:round trip ticket on United to a Charity Ball Cocktail Party courts on Sunday April 20th, after Air 

Limo to be used before Dec 31 Tonight 7-10 SMC
GOVERNMENT HOMES from $1 (U Monyak vs. Armed and Dangerous bargain priced at $30. GRADUATION is coming & we're What really me off is mat at p.m. Hagger
Call Mark at ticks 
repair). Also delinquent tax property. Call game. Call John at 2151. history! ELECTRICITY is graduating patio
2393 they're spending their kid's dental 805-687-6000 ext. GH-9834 for informa­so all you OJs, pseudo-OJs, and check-up money on roach clips. JEN­$1 with Charity Ball pre-purchased tion. FOUND: sweater, also three pairs of aspiring DJs take notice. All of our ticket
ZO and her ROCKIN' NOVA. 
gloves. identify and claim at dispatch excellent professional sound equip­$3 without ticket, All you can drink window in the computing center. ment must go. Items not already sold 21 10 required lor admittance. All
ACT NOW! DISKETTES 
include 1 Technics SL-1200 turntable Proceeds world
Bulk 5·1/4' DS/DD. 49 cents each. Lots welcome. go to 
Lost: diamond pendant in the area by of 50. These are not seconds. MONEY 1 Crown 0-150 A power amp, 1 GLI was major my hunger.
That footballs on 
TYPING Fast, High-Quality. Call the Security Office and Power Plant. PMX 7000 preamp/mixer. 1 Cabbage 
BACK GUARANTEE. No questions carpet. FN 
287-9257. It has great sentimental value, so if Case coffin, 2 Yamaha S4115H Only two shopping days 'till Mr. Stan­
asked. Call MEl, 1-800-634-3478, 9-9 
found please call Kris at 3617 or 3354. speakers, speaker cords & patch ford contest! 
EST M-F, 10-6 Sat. Offer expires cables. Great prices. Call Frank 17435/29/86. 
-

LOST: ONE GAUDY RHINESTONE or Steve 2215. Ride Needed To Chicago, May 2
THANK YOU ST. JUDE FOR ALL 
PRO-TYPE -15 yrs. exp. student & CLIP-ON EARRING. IF FOUND CALL Call Beth 284-5439. 
YOUR HELP! 
law papers, resumes, dissertations. JULIE x4570. 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SSS TO THE FRENCH McNUGGET: ARE
277-5833. 
and CREDIT!!! Cliff notes available. It's not just a job. Drivers needed to 
YOU THIRSTY? I WILL BE.

LOST -large set of keys at Stepan 
PANOORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend deliver The Observer next semester. 
......' .. picnic Sat. Keychain has duck on it. If 
Ave. 233-2342. Drivers needed for every day of the TO BABE AT SMCBRAR COPY MACH ATIENTION ALL OFF CAMPUSfound call Tim 3132. 
CLASSIFIEDS FOR THE N£X1 week. Must be avai I able from 11 a.m. MON NIT -CALL 'GUY IN NO STUDENTS FROM CONNECTICUT:
PUBUSHING DAY WILL BE AC­FOR SALE -2-bed loft, finished and to 1:15 p.m. Paid position. If in­HURRY' X3223 For lnfor. concerning the baggageFOUND: Blue and brown Indian
CEPTED UN'TlL ll P.M. DAILY. stained. terested fill out an application at The truck, contact Martha Walsh at 2670. 
necklace near Lyons Hall on 4/30. 
black vinylloveseat, and 2dressers. Observer office or call Mark at 2450. 
Call Tim at 2530 to claim.
EXpf;~T TYPING SERVICE. CALL Call Sheila at 272-1068 Thank you St. Jude for favorsMOLEHEADSHALLRETURNMRS COKER, 233· 7009. 
LOST: Wilson Indoor/Outdoor basket­granted.
FURNITURE FOR SALE: Sft plaid RASTAWEEK
ball (Super Shot model) during
arcedle couch, 4ft brown couch, both in great RASTAWEEK
quarterfinal game between Lee's Kramer & Smoron: Georgie survived .. 
BBQ and Embarassing Stains at shape. Lg recliner, chair, bookcase, m RASTAWEEK N.S.H.P. ceptelns, th;mks for e greet . you may not be so lucky! When you ore. LOW PRICES, MUST SELL! Rob RASTAWEEK yeer. Pleese return ven keys to the
Bookstore Courts on Ffiday, April 25. least expect It, expect it! Au revoir 
or Andy 272-ti783. Center for Soclel Concerns. Thenks. 
If found, please call Mark at 1515. mesamis. 
RASTAWEEK Tom
I LOST/FOUND I 
AXES FOR SALE Fender Rhodes 73 RASTAWEEK
FOUND: COMP-MATH BLDG, A a hug 
Stage Electric Piano, Sequential Circuits RASTAWEEK
HEWLETT PACKARD CALCULATOR to say hello 
LOST; KEY CHAIN with yellow Max Synth, Peavey 120 watt Amp, MIDI­Do yoa Deed a HOTEL ROOM for
-CHECK LOST & FOUND a smile 
"Grace Hall' tag at party on Colfax St. Macintosh Interface. Call John B at 4S31. GRADUATION WEEKEND???! 
to say I care or on campus. Without them I can't Chlrlty Bell Parrnls aa't make It to S. Bend ualll
A LARGE BANNER BELONGING TO a whisper 
open my room, mailbox, car, or 80 AMC SPIRIT: 4 CYLINDER, 4 Chertty Bell Sat., May 17, 10 I lllave o• room
THE NO CHAPTER OF PHI BETA to say I LOVE YOU 
house. Please help me by calling 283-SPEED, Am/FM CASSETTE, RUNS Chlrtty Bell available at tile S. Bead HOLIDAl' INN
KAPPA HAS BEEN TAKEN FROM
3810 or leaving them with rector, Fr. and DRIVES GOOD, LADY DRIVEN, for FRIDAY, MAY 16, ONLY loveD!
THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM
Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. Sl800, 288-till7 or 2~9-72~6.
LOUNGE. THIS BANNER IS NEEDED ND/SMC CHARITY BALL FOR THE INITIATION CEREMONIES A family ~l~bflltion of/if~ Calll77·75'70 If INTERFSTED 
FuRNISHED HOUSED CLOSE TO NO Sllturdoy, May 2 at the ACC. IS YOUR BIKE IN HORRIBLE SHAPE? 
FOR NEW MEMBERS. PROMPT 
LOST: Blue and gold Pony sweat FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-ti389 Get !evolved sow. SENIORS WORKING IN CHICAGO are WANT TO SELL IT? CALL JULIE
RETURN OF THE BANNER TO THE 
jacket at slam-dunk contest. No. 30 invited to a reception put on by the Notre x4570
PROPER LOCATION WOULD BE 
on the tag. Would appreciate if 4 and S BEDROOM HOUSES FOR Dame Club of Chicago. Wed 7 p.m.
GREATLY APPRECIATED BY ALL OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I LIQUOR.
returned. Contact Jeff at 3251 or RENT, BLOCK OF MHOUSES (3 LEFT) Grace Penthouse. FUN...Come to West Side Story
CONCERNED. CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1
3252. S400 PER MONTH. CALL 25~33 or Thursday or Saturday. I'll be the
BLOCK SOUll4 Of HOLIDAY INN. 

234-9364. 'need Ride for 2 to SE Florida. Can leave usher in the white-collared dress. 
LOST: ONE CAMERA ON GREEN May 12. Call283-4684 ASAP! 
FIELD, SATURDAY · 4/26/86 · IF 
Ride Needed to COLUMBUS, Ohio on Hungry? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at
LOST ... LOST ... LOST ... LOST WEST SIDE STORY...Brian, Lauren,
FOUND, PLEASE CALL ANN 
Friday May 2. Call Bill at 4004 or Jock at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am
I lost my keys Thursday during An Tostal Ride offered to Jersey Shore after finals -David, Cathy, the upstart, Ted, Jack
AUSTRIA AT 284-4048 ASAP! 
3109. Monday-Thursday; 5pm-2am Friday;
at SMC. They might be on the grass or rom 1156. and the rest of you nutty theatre fags
3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 

they might have been in the women's -Best of luck from your faithful fan. 
One or two females wanted to ~hare 3
room of Haggar (don't ask!!). There were fHANK YOU ST. JUDE! Have a great show. JAR 
close campus,
four keys on a leath~r key ring. If found bedroom house, to Established Band, Into New Music ­
available in May. Halfrent is SIJ7.SO plus
pl~as~ call Jim Wir Aler at I 107 or come to FOR RENT ) Looking for a Guitarist and Drummer 0 Holy St. Jude apostle and martyr
utilities. If interested call Cindy at 233­
231 Alumni. for Next Year, CALL MIKE 1778 ATTENTION NEW ORLEANS CLUB great in vlrto.~e and rich In miracles 
SI68. Leave message. 
MEMBERS -FINAL MEETING OF near kinsman of Jesus Christ. FOUND: SWEATER, ALSO THREE FURNISHEL HOUSES CLOSE TO N[l THE YEAR TO DISCUSS RIDES AND Faithful Intercessor of all who Invoke FOR SALE: King 48 trombone. Sym­
!=OR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2876389 A POSSIBLE BAGGAGE TRUCK. yc.ur special patronage In time ofPAIRS OF GLOVES. IDENTIFY AND phony quality instrument. F attach­NDISMC CHARITY BALL THURS., MAY 1 at 7:30 p.m. IN 321 need. To you have recourse from thyCLAIM AT DISPATCH WINDOW IN 
ment. $700 or best offer. Call Kelly at A family celebration of life 
ZAHM. depth of my heart and humbly begTHE COMPUTING CENTER 
3 bedroom apartment, summer only. 233-5284 evenings. Saturday, May 2 at the ACC. whcmGod has given such great power
Get Involved now.

Fully furnished, 10 min from NO, GOFORITMICH-HE'SAMUNCH!! to come to my assistance. Help me In beautiful. $300 mo 233 6298 (even· FOR SALE: Olds tenor trombone. Stu­my present and urgent petition. In ings) dent Instrument. Marching lyre and 
return I promise to make your name

LOST CANON SURESHOT CAMERA SENIORS
music stand included $100. Call Kelly Need ticket to GREAT AMERICA this known and cause you to be Invoked.
LAST THURSDAY BETWEEN GRACE, at233-5284 evenings. 
IF FOUND Sunday? Say three Our Fathers, three Hail
P.E. AND P.W. PLEASE 
CALL CATHY AT 3442. CHARITY BALL If so, call Teri at 3031 Mary's and three Gloria for nine days. HOUSE FOR RENT in Leeper Park FOR SALE: CHARITY BALL Publication must be promised. Pray May 15-Aug 22. $310/mo. utll. inc. 1976 AUDI FOX CHARITY BALL TOM ANTONINI for us and all who Invoke your aid. 
$800 CALL BILL 1202
Ideal for 2. 287-4024 CONGRATS AGAIN ON YOUR VIC· Amen. This novena hae never beenREWARDS! LOST: SMC ring on Fri. 
................................ 
TORY AND HAPPY, HAPPY, HAPPY know to fall. Thank you St. Jude 4/25. Please call 284-5178 if found. 
BIRTHDAY!
REWARD HAPPY BELA TED B-DAY TO: 
LOVE, SUSIE HELP!!!
CLEM

TICKETS
FOR SALE 4 COMMENCEMENT TIXS t • •••••••••.••.•.••• I NEED 2 GRADUATION TIX WILL
0 ••• 0 0 •••• 0 0
BRIAN

BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FOR CHRIS PAY$$ CALL ED-272-0828
LOU

USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P 0. I'M A LOVER NOT A FIGHTER. S.
Lost: WATCH on Fri . 4/25: Leather FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TIXS -LOVE,DUZ
BOX 964 NO, IN 46556 B4 05/07/86
(pigskin) band with white face and BEST OFFER 219-8417 B411PM MARY -when Is the prom? I'LL ASK YOU NO QUESTIONS SOblack roman numerals. I worked so DIANE -stump, short boy. . . TELL ME NO LIEST TO SEE WHAT Ihard to buy it so please call if found. 
homework? FEEL WHEN I LOOK IN YOUR EYES I 
Jamie-284-5246. Thankyou! THANK YOU ST. JUDE
Nt;ED BEER MONEY? I NEED GRAD Need Graduatton Tix Desperately!!! AM FIRE WON'T YOU COME OUT TIX! BILL 277-5817 WILL PAY ANY PRICE!!! John 4057 LOST: AND PLAY WITH ME? GOLD BRACELET -LOOKS LIKE A
Found: Casio watch 4/27 at :>tepan 
THIN FLAT 4" PIECE OF GOLD To the Observer Production Depart·
NEED TICKETS TO N.O. COMMENCE· WEST SIDE STORY NEEDS YOU! MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). Ushers Are Needed For All Nights Of 
Courts. Call Steve 4364 to claim. FURNISHED HOUSES CLOSE TO NO WHEN UNLATCHED. IF FOUND, ment: 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 
PLEASE CALL SHARON AT 4348. Thenks fore greet job!
CALL BRENT, 2n-o417, EVES Performance, May 1,2, And 3. Also
USS NO lifesaving ring taken out of South Dining Hall Friday is worthless ro BEFORE 10. For May 15,16, And 17 NO EX­
MM-DO YOU KNOW WHO I AM? MARK, PHIL, ANDI, ANDY, JANE
PERIENCE NECESSARY! Call Annie

you but most valuable to the owner. 
0 •••••• •••••••••••••••••• 0 ••• 0 •• 
ANNE, MELISSA, ALICE, 
At 284-4303 For Details. 

Please return to either dining hall -no Wanted! One GRAD and SAT. Night
WANTED To all our friends who helped out: KATHY, TRACY, ROB L., ROB B.,
questions asked. dinner ticket. Michelle 289-444S. 
THANKS FOR MAKING 'ESPIRir A MARY R., SHARON, CAROL, CAREY, CONGRATULATIONS LEE'S BBQ SUCCESS MARIA, MELINDA, end LAURA. 
Found one basketball at Lyons courts on 
ROUNDHOUSE!! -A Friend And LOVE, See you all next yeer!
NEED COMMENC. TIX. ALL SIBL·Sunday April 20th, after Air Monyalt vs. 
Fan!! Julie, Jeanne Marie, Ana, Terri -Chrts Armed Dangerous game. Call John at Are you leaving for the summer? INGS IN FAMILY OF 18 COMING. 21SI. Does your home/apt. need T.L.C. PLEASE HELP! WILL PAYS CLETUS 
HAPPY BIRTHDAYT.A.-ME NO SURFING DURING OFFICE
while your gone? Responsible N.D. 232-8253. 
HOURS!
ALL SENIOR FIELD HOCKEY WEN-staffer will live In or look after yourLOST: Blue and gold Pony sweat CHES:BEST WISHES FROM SENIOR MONTH T·SHIRTS!! 

place. Lets make a deal! Patti NEED GRAD TIX OR I DON'T GET MY 
jacket at slam-dunk contest. No. 30 TO THE J.D.S AND P.R.'s: 
Will be on sale at Senior Bar Thurs­SOMEWHERE ACROSS THE ATLAN­
2396318 2341229 PLAID PANTS!! I 
on the tag. Would appreciate If mar­May 1 and Sat -SAY, WHERE'S THE RUMBLE GON­
CALL CHRIS AT 3152,3171 or 2170. TIC TO:get a job, have a great May 3 $7.00 
returned. Contact Jeff at 3251 or 
NABE? 3252. SCHRANKriage,make money,have fun In 
I need Commencement tlxs Europe, kick-In med school, or HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATE GRAFF! whatever else you do. Congrats LOVE, MJ, LISA, AND THE REST OF
SOUTH BEND'S FINEST RECORD Please call Geoff on
LOST.. LOST. LOST. _LOST THE 5 NORTH GANG Hlfflfflfflffl DEAR DIANE • • • • YO
graduating. Had fun & we'll miss you 

STORE NEEDS PERSON WITH 289-3499
I lost my keys Thursday during An CHICK fflfflfflfflffl MISS L.E. ffl1flfflffl
next faii.XXOO MOA & SPIDER. 

STRONG MUSIC BACKGROUND,
T('lstal at SMC. They might be on the I was SO LONELY until I found Happy Six Month Anniversary. • •
AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS & HAVE BIG FAMILY AND NEED A
grass or they might have been in the SOMEBODY I could MELT WITH. Remember: 0 & G will always be. It's
WEEKENDS. MAIL OR BAING LOT (10) OF COMM. TIX.! WILL
women's room of Haggar (don't Happy Anniversary. IN MY LIFE there hard to believe that we have put up
RESUME TO TRACKS, 1631 E. PAY! CALL PAUL ZIMMER 277-3912!
ask! I). There were four keys on a MONEY! MONEY! MONEY! will be many more. LOVE MLV -with each other for as long as we
EDISON, SOUTH BEND, IN 46637.
leather key ring. If found please call SAB needs stage hands formerly have, I guess that means we love Jim Winkler at 1107 or come to 231 Commencement Tickets Needed. Kathi For May 5 concert. each other or something. You have alumni. 5848. Make $4.00 an hour been the best thing In my life this Call Eric, Bill or Mike at 1380 ATTENTION past year. You are the most caring,
NEED RIDE TO BALTIMORE,
FOUND FOUND FOUND I Med Oldy l COMMENCEMENT lkkets NEW ORLEANS CLUB MEMBERS warm, sensitive, loving and sexy per­
PHILADELPHIA, OR CHERRY HILL,
Gold Cross Pen With Initials EMG. I will paJ BIG BUC~ FINAL MEETING OF THE YEAR WILL son on this campus. And I thank God
N.J. AFTER COMMENC. WKND. MAY
Saw add before did not get number. Call Mike at m-1067 BE HELD TONIGHT AT 7:30 IN ROOM that you're mine. Ned year I'll
18 or 19. Call Monika 3772 HEY TOBIN 
Call Rob 1780 321 ZAHM HALL. RIDERS HOME remember you and this occasion with
WHERE DID THAT TEN BUCKS END

Grad lix needed. One commencement AND A BAGGAGE TRUCK WILL BE a smile. I'm yours babe LOVE 
UP THAT I GAVE YOU LAST

ticket and one ticket for dinner sat night. DISCUSSED. ALWAYS, George. 
THURSDAY?

FOUND: Small, furry, cuddly, really RIDERS NEEDED to rent a car to Steve4364. cute white bunny with black spots. Long Island-NYC area. Leaving May "WHAr' GONNA KILL IS WHEN I JOANIE, CONCEDE NOW!! OTHER­Likes popcorn and carrots. Refuses 10. Call Brian 2560 NEED COMMENC. TIX. ALL SIBL­FLUNK IT!" WISE NO MERCY DROP, LOB; DROP, to poop on the paper. Call 3209. Ask INGS IN FAMILY OF IK COMING. A Kansas sweatshirt won't attract a KAREN BANTER LOB TILL YOU GO DOWN. JOAN IE. .. for Bud. SMALL REFRIG. NEEDED, CALL PLEASE HELP! WILL PAY SCLE11.JS pick up line ... will It? COCO ON THE CPA DEAD JOANIE. . .DEAD STROHS 
CATH 284..WSS 232-8253. 32.99 & Deposit at Corictowne 
The Observer Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 12 
Calgary shocks Oilers, 3-2; Blues take Leafs 
ST. LOUIS ~ Left wing Kevin LaVallee scored on a perfect feed from Bernie Federko at 7:34 of the third period to give St. Louis a 2-1 victory over the Toronto Cup semifinals for the first time in 14 years. 
LaVallee, who had seen spot du­ty this season and hadn't dressed for three games of the seven-game Norris Division championship series with Toronto, took Federko's pass from behind the net and jam­med the puck between Ken Wreg­get's pads. Going into the game, LaVallee had scored one goal against Minnesota in the opening round, and one assist. 
The Blues, who were third in the Norris during the season, will begin 

semifinal play Friday night against 
the winnner of the Smythe Divi­
sion. 

The Blues have not been in a Stanley Cup semifinal series since 1972. Then they lost four straight to Boston. 
Flames 3, Oilers 2 

EDMONTON, Alberta -The Calgary Flames broke a 2-2 tie with a freak third-period goal credited to Perry Berezan last night and upset the Edmonton Oilers 3-2, knocking the two-time NHL cham­pions out of the Stanley Cup playoffs. 
Special StudentIYouth Fares to 
SCANDINAVIA 
On Scheduled Airlines! The inexpensive way to get to Scandinavia and other destinations in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Spring/Summer Rates to Scandinavia New York to Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm from $305 one way. $530 roundtrip New York to Helsinki from $335 one way, $600 roundtrip Chicago to Copenhagen from $305 one way, $530 roundtrip Chicago to Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki from $345 one way, $610 roundtrip And Tours Designed For Students To The SOVIET UNION 
For Information Call: 
WHOLE WORLD TRAVEL 
17 E. 45th St., New York, NY 10017 (212) 986-9470 
.............................................·.·.·.·.·.·················.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.......-..-...-.-.-.-.-.-.-....,...,..
·1'1'-··········································-=jli(·'l"·"························· .....·.· ·.·.· ....·.·.· ... •.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·...~·;'7.
.:::·:::: ····· ····· ····· -~ ass··ot l·s7 ·::; :::= JI Varden Studios .~\\ \\\\ 
i 
I. ::: ,._Spring Portraits Return:\:1· 
i 
1 \\: Ill Apri I 29th A-K :1\\ til 
==== ==== • ==== :===
30th L T 
It Apnl -Jf 
t I May 1st U-Z t1 
m:I 10am-4pm ti 
1·:::11 
New Orleans Room, :.:::1:1 r n LaFortune tJ;
~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;::::::.:·:·:·::;••~:~:~::.~::::::::.:::::::.:::::::::.;.;.;.;.;.;:;.;::::.:·:·:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::i!f.l 
RYDER 
rents trucks to move it yourself 

Ryder Truck Rental-One-Way 
AMX 


OONERSCC~ 
L 
In eliminating the Oilers, the Flames pulled off the biggest shocker in a series of surprises in this NHL postseason tournament and advanced to the Campbell Conference final against the St. Louis Blues, starting Friday night in Calgary. 
The Blues clinched the Norris Division championship with a 23-1 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs last night. 
Berezan, a left wing, was credited with the winning goal at 
5:14 of the final period when Ed­monton rookie defenseman Steve Smith attampted a clearing pass from the side of the Oilers' net and inadvertenly bounced the puck off goaltender Grant Fuhr's skate and into the net. Berezan, the last Flame to touch the puck, was given the goal, his first in this year's playoffs and second overall. 
In fashioning the best record in hockey during the regular season, the Oilers had established an air of invicibility entering the playoffs. But that was shattered by the Flames, who won three games of Northlands Coliseum in the seven­game series. Calgary won only one of eight games against the Oilers during the season and had not won here over five regular seasons. 




Notre DaDie Avenue ApartDients 
NOW REN1JNG FOil FAU 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & malntenence, all deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES (good deals for Summer Sealon) 
Office at 110 ND Ave 
~7/~5716 
Call Anytime 
,,REFRIGERATOR RETURN~~ 
All refrigerators rented from S.A.B. must be returned to 
STEPAN CENTER SATURDAY, MAY3 10:00 -4:00 pm 10:00 am-4:00pm 
Refrigerators must be cleaned and defrosted before deposit wi II be returned. 
, ' Sponsored by Services CommiSSion of your '-..._, Student Activities Board ...,. 


.-------------------------.-••&-;,-a-••

-------~-·-----------··.:~--·~ .. 
$ave dollar$ SZS.OO IO SlSO.OO Off$ave dollar$ 


R SEE THIS MAPOn any Rent-it-Here, Leave-it-Thera 
FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY
RYDER 

Ryder One Way Truck Rental 
OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 
Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials. 
SOUTH BEND LOCATIONS 1914 Miami St. 
2715 North Bendix Dr_ 289-6721 277-3550 OR · 2627 South Main St. 232-6729 

South Quad May 2nd 6-9pm FREE 

TriMark ol Northern Indiana 2111·294-7239 6002-6-5710 
-----------------------------------------------------------~ 



The Observer Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 13 
The Department of Communications and Theater at St Mary's presents a ND/SMC Theater production of 
choreographed by 

Jerome Robbins 
Musical Score composed by Leonard Berstein Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim Book by Arthur Laurents 

May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College For information call the box Office at 284-4626 
THE KING SAYS: 
PRICES 
"Grab Your frosted 
GOOD THRU 
Good Root Beer. · 
5-3-86 
NEW 
FROM 
HIRAM WALKERS 

750 ML. 
NIUM WALKER'S 
LICORICE oR 
NIUM WALKER PEACH 
PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS 
OR PEACH SCHNAPPS 
4~!ML
8
99 
YrGAL 
PABST 699
REGULAR OR LIGHT CASE

B&G FONSET­LACOUR 
13
99 .
' 
750 Ml. 

BOLU-
i 
GALLO

IAIIIGLINO-SOAn-
WINES 

1AlPUUti49SI ~: 
leoti

3
7~0 ML. ~l~! 

GAUD 
VERMOUTH 
Clemens strikes out 20 to gain Majors record 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -It took another pit­
cher to let Roger Clemens know 
that he was flirting with history as 
the Boston Red Sox right-hander 
neared a major league record 20 
strikeouts. 
"He told me I needed two 
strikeouts and to go out and get it," 
Clemens said of teammate AI Nip­
per's comments entering the ninth 
inning of Boston's 3-1 victory Tues­
day night over the Seattle Mariners. 
"That entire inning was all adrenaline. I was just out there throwing," Clemens said. 
It was a power-pitching perfor­mance that left Nipper in awe. 
"I'd love to throw as hard as he did tonight. That was something nobody has ever seen," Nipper said. "That was the greatest game I ever saw anyone pitch. We're all going to Atlanta tomorrow and get our arms operated on." 
Nipper was referring to the ar­throscopic surgery Clemens underwent in Columbus, Ga., last Aug. 30 to repair torn cartilage in his right shoulder. 
But it's something Clemens says is history. 
"All of the injury is behind me. I'm tired of hearing about that. All I know is what the record book says." 
Clemens' effort moved him past three of modern baseball's legen­dary pitchers in the record book. 
Nolan Ryan of the 1974 Califor­nia Angels, Tom Seaver of the 1970 New York Mets and Steve Carlton of the 1969 St. Louis Cardinals each struck out 19 in nine innings. 
But Clemens' record perfor­mance was not limited to the nine­inning feat. 
He fanned eight consecutive bat­ters from the fourth into the sixth innings to tie the American League mark accomplished twice by Ryan with the Angels and once by Ron Davis while he was with the New York Yankees. 
The 20 strikeouts also snapped the previous high of 16 by one pit­cher at Fenway Park set by Jack Harshman of the Chicago White Sox on July 25, 1954. 
All the statistics and names are not wasted on Clemens. 
"To be mentioned in the same breath with all the great pitchers who have played this game, I have no words for that," he said. "I'm just happy there's someone up there looking over me." 
Praise and big numbers had been projected for Clemens ever since he was the winning pitcher for the University of Texas in the Longhorns' 4-3 victory over Alabama in the final game of the 1983 NCAA championship. 


UNIVERSITY CENTER 
directly behind Jeremiah Sweeney's 
& 

adjacent to Macri's Deli 
Bookstore Champion & Birthday boy all in the same week! 
Happy Birthday T.A. 
from The Cottage 

fl"lu-91064 uU/1, Me /7auce ~~.. 
Last Home Stand of the 
PAT GIBLIN JAM 
featuring tunes by the Grateful Dead and various other artists 
TONIGHT! 
$2 and 2 I.D.s required 9 until?
I 
...,.... ......., ~ ......,.. ~_,..-.........~-------,.. 1" 

) 
l 
l 
The Observer Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 14 

t 
\, . 
,, 
i•
,; 1\ 
·i 
I 
i 
Sports Briefs 
The ND Women's Soccer Club will hold a 
mandatory meeting tonight at 7 in the basement of Breen-Phillips. Captains will be selected for the fall. For more information call Beth Haverkamp at 283-1458. -The Observer 
The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting today at 5 p.m. at the band tower on Green Field. You must be at least six feet, two inches in height. For more information call John Kennedy at 283-3407. -The Observer 
Dominick J. "Nappy" Napolitano, who for 
50 years worked with Notre Dame's boxing program, died yester­day in a South Bend hospital. He was 78. Napolitano headed the 
·school's Bengal Bouts program, a charitable boxing event for students started in 1923 by football coach Knute Rockne. Napolitano began working with the program as a student in 1931. He later worked full time in the school's physical education depart­ment and retired in 1980 as director of non-varsity athletics. More than 10,000 students have participated in the Bengal Bouts, which· donated $300,000 to Holy Cross missions. -The Observer 
Leslie M. Bodnar, M.D. Orthopaedic Surgeon-Sports Medicine 
Will be closing his office on the Notre Dame campus on May 16, 
1986. Thereafter his practice will be restricted to his downtown 
office at 328 North Michi2an, South Bend, IN 46601, (219) 234-1159 
We are an "I CARE" office 
COMPLETE EXAMS 
coatacu, glass.. 
NDI SMC STUDENTS, FACVLTY AND STAFF 
Show yoal' I.D. aad l'ecelve 
20~ OFF GLASSES OR CONTACTS 
&cladiag Specials 

VISion 

ASSOCIATES 1341 Portage

1635 N. Ironwood 234-2400277-1161 Martin's ShoppingSouth of U.S. 23 Center 

OILY $6. 
2n-21s1

R1ght now. you can get the 1835 South Bend Ave.
hearty THURSDAY THICK ONE for only six bucks! 

Plaza 23 Center A th1ck 12" pizza w1th pepperon1. double cheese and extra th1ck crust and we ~ guarantee delivery 1n tess 


oi !;!
than 30 m1nutes. So call D.
•

Dom1no·s P1zza and ask for •
:e
the THURSDAY THICK ONE. DOMINO'S 
PIZZA ~ 
Our dnvers carry less than S20 00 Limtted delivery area No DELIVERS• I coupon necessary Not valid 
FREE. ~ ...
wtth any other oHet 

Relay 
continuedfrom page 16 
will be Rick Mulvey in the 3000 meter steeple chase and Mike Bren­nan in the high hurdles. In the stee­ple chase, the runner must cross 28 barriers and seven water barriers. 
}>iane takes the runners to In­dianapolis, to help them gain an opportunity to make nationals. Ragunas will compete in the 100 and 200 meter sprinting events. Pearcy will run in the 400 meter run, with Nobles in the 800 meter run and Tyler in the 1500 meter run. Freshman distance runner Ron Markezich will participate in the 5000 meter run. 


The Picture Man 
presents 

SENIOR FORMAL PICTURE PICKUP 
Thurs. & Fri. May 1& 2 
Haggar Center, Saint Mary's 11am-1pm LaFortune Student Center, Notre Dame 1:30-4:00 pm 
NOTRE DAME ANTI-APARTHEID NETWORK 
Thursday: Band-''Cold Drinks'' 
and Friday: 75¢ Mixed Drinks 


THE FAST CONTINUES 
Fr. Basil vanRensburg has entered the FOURTH week of his fast for divestment, a prayer for guidance of the Board of Trustees as they ponder the issue at their May meeting. 
SUPPORT FR. BASIL AT A SPECIAL GATHERING-FRIDAY, 12:15, ADMIN. STEPS Fast Support Sign-up Sheets are posted in the Center for Social Concerns 

,; 
44 Paca  
45 Long time  7 Gauzy fabric  
46 Precedes  8 Prayer word  
scope or  9 Indirect  
cast  10 Bakery item  
47 Position for  11 Escutcheon  
eventual  edging  
success  12 Molding  
54 Condemn  13 Salamander  
55 Wooden pin  21 Mend  
56 Glass  22 Glut  
container  25 More brave  
58 Dies­ 26 Solo  
59 Cooking flavor  27 Untied  
60 See  28 Eat sumptu­ 
61 Care for  ously  
62 Loved greatly  29 Fr. department  
63 Network  30 Relish tray  
DOWN  item 31 Chosen  5/1/86  
1 Witch  32 Put forth  
2 Lat. abbr.  power  43 Lit a certain  50 Something  
3 Church  34 Couples  way  unacceptable  
tribunal  37 Antilles  44 Whirled  51 Reproach  
4 Unrestricted  island  46 Pronoun  52 Fr. river  
opportunity  38 Redid  47 Entrance  53 Ecstatic  
5 Ahead of  40 Great deal  48 Passenger  57 Soap com­ 
6 Skirt style  41 Convinced  49 Arab land  ponent  

w.......................................................----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I 
I 
1 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~c:»cJlC3L~-----------------------------------------T-h-ur_s_da_y_,_M_a_y_I_,_I_9s_6_­
p_a_g_e__15 

The Student Activities Board Presents: 

SABpresen~ 
THE 

~r 
Wednesday, April 30 Thursday, May 1 

Engineering Auditorium 
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 $1.50 

No food or beverages please
allowed 


The Daily Cross-word 
ACROSS 1 Sandwich 5 Rosy-red gem 
10 Spend time 
idly 14 Above 15 Varnish source 16 Exhort 17 Portal 18 Penalized 19 Moved swiftly 20 Emerge 
unharmed 23 Defiance 24 Medieval poem 25 In abundance 28 Text reference 33 Crazy as­34 Plating metal 35 Slack 36 Secure 37 Sharp nasal 
tone 38 Fictional 
Hammer 39 Abstract being 40 Sprung up 
1986 Tnbune Medea Serv1ces. Inc. 
5/1/86
41 Bank client All R1ghts Reserved 42 Sign up again 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

SO, FoR £VEJ<'r' CN£ OF=" M'r' 
UNFI.X\JN'( tXli<E":s 'rOO ~ED Ar, FOR ri:VER.'i TWQ-~IT COM ME'NT r: MA1>E TAAT 
'r'OU HELl> AS REVELATia-4., ANT> FVR ~V£R'f IN51NC£Fl£ IN:;l!IR'r' '1tX.J MAP£ AS TO THE: W'ELFARt 
OF M'r' FAMIL'r', IT 6/Vts ME "'REAT F'LtA&RIE TO FR£S£Nr You WITH THIS 71<\:JPH'r'. 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

00 ~St-OW A 
L!TTLC: DIGNITY />Nf> 1\tMDVE '-('aJR 'TON(;()E FROM M'r 
REEBa<S. 
Alien slide-shows 


"Hey, thank you! Thank you! That was 'Tie a Yellow "Foster! You better get over here If you want to see Ribbon.' • Now, what say we all really get down?" 
Meeher's hangnail magnified 500 times." 


"Well, shucks! I've lost again. "Let's see here .... Oh! Close, but no cigar. Talk about your alien luck!" You want the place up the road­same as I told those other fellahs." 

'. n 
. 
Thursday, May 1, 1986-page 16 
ND relay successful again at Drake as Van Wie runs through heel pain 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN Southern California, Nebraska, "Once we hit that, though, there Sports Writer Michigan State, Illinois State and was a little let down. We had to get Minnesota. ourselves up for the Drake Relays, 
Notre Dame head track coach "The magnitude of winning at which Notre Dame hadn't won in Joe Piane's 4 x 800 meter relay Drake is tough to put into words," 21 years. It was great to hit both team of Robert Nobles, John Van Wie said. "It is definitely one those peaks in the same year." McNelis, Jeff Van Wie, and Jim of the high points of my career," McNelis, Nobles, Tyler and Van Tyler added a final touch to an ex­the junior from Suffern, New York Pearcy also claimed fifth place in cellent year at the Drake Relays last said. the distance medley relay. In other weekend in Des Moines, Iowa. The Van Wie turned in an especially events, the sprint medley team of team, which achieved All­impressive performace, considering Pearcy, Phil Gilmore, Tony American status with a victory at that he had not run at all during the Ragunas, and Tom Warth came in the NCAA Indoor Championships previous week. Because of dif­fourth, and the 4 x 1600 Relay of in mid-March, ended the relay ficulties with tendonitis in his heel, Ron Markezich, Rick Mulvery, season with a winning run at the he limited his workouts to swimm­Shane O'Flaherty, and Kirby prestigious Drake Relays. ing. Kinghorn finished 9th out of a 48­
"The team did really well," Piane "It may not have been the best team field. said. "It was really windy, there time Jeff has run this season," Saturday, the Midwest Catholic were 10-15 miles per hour gusts. Piane said, "but it was probably his Championships will take place at Consequently, they could have run best performance so far at Notre 10 a.m. on the Cartier Field a lot faster." Dame. It took a lot of guts to run Monogram Track. The Irish will go 
The team combined for a time of with the pain." against competitors including Mar­
7:20.6 The lead-off runner, co­Anchorman Jim Tyler further quette, DePaul, Detroit, Aquinas captain John McNelis, started the explained the race. and Maryville. Five other Irish run­team off with a time of 1:49.7. Rob "We knew coming in that we had ners will travel to Indianapolis for Nobles followed with an identical, a shot at winning," he said. "It was the National Invitational. 
1:49.7 time in his portion of the a really windy day, that made it Because Piane is dividing the race. Jeff Van Wie, who has been hard on everyone. We led, though, squad, the meet will become more suffering from tendonitis , never­for most of the race so we had to difficult for the team that remains. theless turned in a time of 1:51.2, break the wind." "I'd like to do well Saturday," he and Jim Tyler finished the event Van Wie continued on the impor­said. "Taking five guys away will 
Notre Dame middle distance man Jim Tyler, shown above, con­
with yet another 1 :49.7 run. tance of the Drake Relays for the make it that much closer." tributed a 1:49.7 leg to the winning two-mile relay at the Drake The Irish team ran against a team. Some runners to watch SaturdayRelays last weekend. The relay team, which gained all-American 
strong field which included athletic "We had really tried to peak this 
status at the NCAA indoor championships, is comprised on Tyler, 
powers Baylor, Indiana, Arizona, season for the Nationals," he said. see RELAY, page 14 
Rob Nobles, Jeff Van Wie, and John McNelis. 
;l 
I; ' 
., \, 
\ Purdue hands Notre Dame 7-2loss.
( 
~ taking early victories in singles play 
~ By PETE GEGEN and number-five spots, Purdue was match. 
I Sports Writer close to wrapping up the contest As this match concluded, Pur­
even before the doubles matches due's Jim Shumaker was up 4-1 in On Tuesday, early losses in the were played. the third set in the match against
'l 
singles matches doomed the Irish "I was most surprised about los­Notre Dame's Tony Cahill. Cahill tennis team as it dropped a 7-2 deci­ing at the three and five spots," said tried to rally, but Shumaker took sion to Purdue. Only number-six Fallon. "That is usually the strong the game, and Purdue took the
1i 
li player Joe Nelligan was able to part of the lineup." match by virtue of the 5-l score. 
manage a victory in singles action, The number-two singles match In doubles action, Walsh/Paul a 6-1, 6-2 win over Kirk McCaf­was a battle between the finesse Daggs lost to Gregory/Grey, 6-4,6­frey. play of Notre Dame's Brian Kalbas 1, Tim Carr/Dave Reiter defeated 
Number-one singles player Dan and the power game of Purdue's ShumakerI Andrew Hacker, 6-3, 7­Walsh, recovering from a back in­Jim Gray. Gray relied on a strong 6, and Cahill/Nelligan fell to Mc­jury, lost a 7-6, 6-1 decision to serve and his play at the net, which Caffrey/Tom Reilly, 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
Kevin Gregory. Kalbas coutered with several ex­Today the team travels to In­
"Losing that first set hurt him cellent returns and top-spin lobs. dianopolis to take on Butler in a psychologically and also increased With Kalbas up 5-4 in the third match that was rained out yester­the stiffness in his back," noted set, several disputed line calls day. Then on Sunday the team Notre Dame head coach Tom resulted in the insertion of linesmen travels to Ypsilanti, Michigan, to Fallon. "He just wasn into the game. Gray evened the take on Eastern Michigan in the 't in the match after that." match at 5-5, and then proceded to team's final dual match of the 
After losses in the number-three take the next two games and the season. 
I ': 
I ; Women's cross country might get I varsity team status at next meeting 
I .  The ObSCTVer/Corea Stnmger  
I  The Notre Dame men's tennis player pictured above is returning  
~  By PETE GEGEN  school year requiring  a minimum  "It would make (running) more  a serve in a meet earlier this season.  The Irish had a tough time  
I  Sports Writer  of seven men's and seven women's varsity sports.  worthwhile," said Julia Merkel, who is currently running well in the  with Purdue as the Boilers defeated them, 7-2. Joe Nelligan was the only Notre Dame singles player to record a victory, beating  
~  Lately  the  dedine  in  revenue  "We need seven women's sports  club's outdoor track season. "Last  Kirk McCafferty, 7-6, 6-1.  
I I . I  ., ..!f .  from televised football games has affected the entire athletic depart­ and we are up to six," said Notre Dame Athletic Director Gene Cor­ fall we weren't even allowed to place in the North Star conference  
' '  ment at Notre Dame. This decline is even felt at the club sport level as many teams would like to gain var­ rigan in an interview earlier this year. "It is the oldest of the women's clubs and it fits in well  championship meet. We only were allowed to run as an exhibition team."  Baseball drops two  
sity  status,  but  the  shortage  of  with the program already establish­ 
,.  money does not allow it.  ed."  The  club's  head  coach,  Dan  Special to the Obsernr  
I  "  One club which does have a shot  Irish  cross  country head coach  Ryan, currently volunteers his time  
at  moving  up  to  varsity  is  the  Joe Piane agrees that if the club  to the team. Ryan, a graduate law  The  Notre  Dame  baseball  team  dropped  both  ends  of  a  
women's cross country team.  The  does  move to the varsity level, it  student,  said  that  due  to  time  doubleheader  yesterday  to the  Broncos of Western  Michigan,  
club will be recommended for the  would be best to combine it with  restrictions  he  would  not  be in­ dropping a 5-4 decision in the opener and the nightcap, 8-7, at  
~  :  move during the Athletic Depart­ the men's team.  terested in coaching the team if it  Kalamazoo, Mich. The Irish are now 20-25 on the season.  
I  'I  ment's  annual  review  of  Not;:e  "If it does go varsity, I would like  moved  to  varsity.  He  did  say,  Pat Pesavento went two-for-three with two runs scored and Pat  
I  .  Dame athletics.  to have it," he said. "It would be  however, that he would continue to  O'Brien two-for-two with one RBI and a stolen base to pace the  
l  This recommendation does  not  better for coordinating the (cross  coach  the  track  team  barring  a  Irish attack, but it was not enough, as Brad Cross suffered his fifth  
I  include the  women's track  team.  country) program."  drastic change in his schedule for  loss against three wins.  
~  ~  Under current plans, the track team  Piane also noted that the men's  next year.  In game two, Tom Shields, the MCC player of the week, had  
I i I ) t 1I ,  would remain a club sport. The women's cross country team has been chosen because of the relatively low cost of running the program and the need to meet an  team already runs in four co-ed meets, so finding competition for the women would not be a pro­blem. The women in the club are excited about the chance of moving  If the recommendation is ap­proved, it will be the fourth sport to move to varsity in recent years. In 1978, soccer moved from club to varsity, followed by lacrosse and  three hits in as many at bats, knocked in a run and stole two bases in the losing effort. Tom Howard (0-2) took the loss. The Irish take to the road again on Saturday, when they play a twin bill with the Wildcats of Northwestern.  
NCAA requirement for the 1986-87  to the varsity level.  women's swimming in 1981.  

-

431 



