Alcohol awareness -page 6 

an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Two Notre Dame cheerleaders console each other after the Irish defeat to Arkansas-Little Rock Friday night. Notre Dame was knocked out of the NCAA championship tournament after the 90-83 loss. Story on page 12. 

More active, influential senate cited as candidates' top priority 
Reagan: Nicaraguan rebels virtually defenseless, need aid to stop communist takeover 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, seeking public pressure on Congress to approve $100. million aid for ''virtually defenseless" Nicaraguan rebels, declared yester­day evening that the funds are needed to "deny the Soviet Union a beachhead in North America." 
Beseeching Congress "to vote yes," Reagan emphasized his belief that "it is not Nicaragua alone that threatens us." In a televised address from the Oval office, he asked viewers, "Tell them to help the freedom fighters. Help us prevent a Communist takeover of Central America." 
In prepared remarks, four days before the House votes on his aid proposal, Reagan urged his coun­trymen not to ignore "the malignancy in Managua until it spreads and becomes a mortal threat to the entire New World." 
Sen. James Sasser, leading the Democratic response to Reagan, agreed with much of the president's view of the Sandinista government in Nicaragua, but said it was time for negociatwn, not military buildup. Sasser has propsed com­promise legislation that would give the Sandinistas time to talk. 
Making his case for $70 million in military aid and $30 million in non-lethal funds for the so-called Contra forces, Reagan said, "We are asking only to be permitted to switch a small part of our presnet defense budget -to the defense of our own southern frontier." 
A senior administration official, briefing reporters at the White House on the presidnet's speech but insisting he not be identified, said Reagan was about 10 to 12 votes 
By BUD LUEPKE 
Staff Reporter 
Editor's note: This is the second of two articles concerning tomor­row's Student Senate elections. To­day's article focuses on candidates from districts 3, 4 and 5. 
A more active and influential senate is the top priority for senate hopefuls as they move to the final phases of their campaigns for tomorrow's elections. 
Candidates from districts 3, 4 and 5 said they would push district as well as campus-wide issues in their effort to get something done in the senate. 
ln district 3, Andrew Vierhile, a sophomore from Dillon, goes up against classmate John Bauer of Morrissey. Vierhile says he wnats "to make the senate do something." Vierhile also said that if elected he would work to reduce regulations and penalties on parietals, but said he didn't think the administration "would sway" on certain issues. 
Vierhile said, "I hope to have a 
lot of fun and hopefully get 
something done." 
Bauer agrees that penalties for parietals violations were too strict and he would work to reduce them. Addressing problems with the senate, Bauer said relations with the Hall Presidents' Council should be improved. Also on Bauer's plat­form is a proposal for a drug rehabilitation program and a call for more student unity. 
Bauer said there is too much in­fighting in the senate. "Senators make the senate. We need greater input from the senators," he said. 
District 4 features J. Christopher Murphy and Steve Viz. Both are freshmen from Flanner. Murphy wants to improve the senate by "getting students ivolved in so that senate is a working body." Murphy also stresses consistent rector en­forcement of regulations, par­ticularly on parietals and party policy. "Enforcement of these rules varies too much from hall to hall," he said. Murphy says he wants to keep his district informed with a newsletter from which he said he hopes to get feedback as well. 

Viz says, if elected, he will focus on the issues of his district such as better security in the north quad parking lots, more phones in Flan­ner, and air conditioners in the Pas­querillas, which he described as "ovens in the summer." Viz said he would also propose the elimination of penalties for switching dorms. 
Three candidates are up for the off-campus district 5 post. Eileen Hartigan, a. junior, said she wants to improve the off-campus representation. "Du Lac stresses on campus representation. I would work to improve off-campus representation for instance by get­ting an off-campus member on the HPC," she said. 
Hartigan also said she thinks people living off campus should have parking closer to campus and 
see SENATE, page 5 
short of victory in the House and would lobby members in search of support. 
The official said the administra­tion remains unwilling to com­promise on the amount of money Reagan requested or by placing new restrictions on how the money is spent. But he acknowledged "the possibility of the president agreeing unilaterally to allow some time between the enactment of the legislation and the actual delivery of military assistance" to encourage peace talks with the Sandinistas. 
Reagan portrayed a dire situa­tion in Central America should the Contra forces lose American assistance. 
"Using Nicaragua as a base, the Soviets and Cubans can become the dominant power in the cruci!ll cor­ridor between North and South America. Established there, they will be in a position to threaten the Panama Canal, interdict our vital Caribbean sea lanes, and ultimately move against Mexico. 
"Should that happen, desperate Latin peoples by the millions would begin fleeing north into the cities of the southern United States, or to wherever some hope of freedom re­mained." 
Displaying a map of the region and an airfield photo from Nicaragua, the president charged members of the ruling Sandinista regime with selling illegal drugs to Americans, using their country as a terrorist command post and threatening the security of the Western alliance by seeking to spread revolution through Central America to the Panama Canal. 
In the Democratic Party reply prepared for broadcast following the president's address, Sasser of Tennessee said the Democrats agree with Reagan that "the Sandinista government has betrayed the pro­mise of its revolution, has supress­ed the freedom of its own people, and has supported subversion in El Salvador." But Sasser said the Democrats believe "that the presi­dent is seizing military options before he has exhausted the hope of a peaceful solution." 

"Let us call upon our diplomatic skills," Sasser said. "Let us call upon our patience, on our wisdom and, most of all, on our democratic traditions to achieve a balanced bipartisan policy of success and one we, as Americans, don't have to be ashamed of," he said. 
As the president prepared to speak, dozens of demonstrators carrying candles and anti­administration placards marched on the sidewalk outside the White House chanting, "Stop the killing! stop the lies. We know what Contra money buys." 
For its part, the Nicaraguan government, in a statement issued by its embassy in Washington, ac­cused Reagan of attempting "to hoodwink the Congress and US public opinion into supporting a policy of creeping military involve­ment of U.S. combat troops in Nicaragua" and trying to "trigger a 

bloody  regional  war in Central  
America."  
The  president's  address  

culminated an intense two-week campaign to bring public opinion to his side. Reagan's chief of staff, Donald Regan, predicted yesterday that the president would prevail in the up-or-down House vote on Thursday. 

Soph candidates stress social life, class unity 
By CLIFF STEVENS 
News Staff 
On the eve of class elections, sophomore class office can­didates are citing social life, class unity and involvement as their major concerns for the up­coming year. 
The sophomore class office ticket of Liam Brennan, Mary McCarthy, Jeff Utz, and Tim Lake, listed in order of presi­dent, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, plans to stress social life if elected, said Bren­nan. 
"We're committed to an active social life and we'll do that through activities on a very regular basis, with religious and academic aspects, too," he said. 
Pat  Cooke  of  ttie  Cooke,  
Theresa  Barshart,  Chris  
Downes,  and  John_  Ruhlin  

ticket, said class unity and ''well­being" are their primary goals. Cooke called the class unity at 
the Kevin Hurley Mass "something special." 
"That's the unity we're going to try to maintain over the next year, as well as well-being which includes social life and liturgical and community life," he said. 
The ticket of Patrick Creadon, Erica Hinkel, Tom DiResta, and Sam Bailey are citing fun and unity in their campaign plans, said Creadon. 
"If elected we're going to work as hard as we can to pull the class together but we're go­ing to have a good time doing it; the class as a whole is going to have a good time, too," he said. 
Michael Keegan of the Keegan, Martine Beamon, Pete Hartweger, and Ellen Nichols ticket said separation of politics and social life was their prime objective. 
''Everyone seems to be wor­ried about disbanding this and 
see CLASS, paae 5 

------~--------­

In Brief 
The Coca-Cola boycott is picking up steam at Michigan State University where three residence halls and the stu­dent government have voted to support the ban as an anti­apartheid protest. "The boycott is not just against Coke," said one student leader. "We are asking students to focus on Coke simply because students don't buy IBM computers every day." -The Observer 
The 1986 Younger Scholar A ward winner is 
Laura Speranza, a junior at Saint Mary's. The award is part of a national competition commemorating the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution and sponsored by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Contestants had to submit proposals for research and writing projects on the constitution. Speranza is a history and philosophy major from Munster, Ind. Her proposed project focus­ed on James Wilson, a legal theorist and signer of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. Speranza will be provided with $1,800 to research and write the paper during a nine-week period this summer. Her advisor is Stuart Warner, a visiting pro­fessor of philosophy at Saint Mary's. -The Observer 
International criminal Charle Soobhraj, wanted in three countries for befriending young couples so he could drug, rob and kill them, escaped from a New Dehli, India prison with six other convicts yesterday after drugging the warden and guards with candied fruit, police said. Authorities declared a nationwide alert and sealed New Dehli's borders in the manhunt. -AP 
Mario Cuomo is seen by Democrats as their front­runner in the 1988 presidential election, with the GOP expecting to line up behind Vice President George Bush, according to a Newsweek poll of 43 governors. The magazine said in its March 24 issue that 20 percent of the Democratic governors interviewed believe Cuomo will head the Democratic ticket. Fourteen percent named Colorado Sen. Gary Hart and 10 percent picked former Virginia Gov. Charles Robb. On the Republican side, 77 percent chose Bush, with former Delaware Gov. Pierre duPont IV a dis­tant second with eight percent of the vote. -AP 
Ferdinand Marcos, exiled Philippines president, is finding househunting in Honolulu a hard job, while one of three countries in which he reportedly would like to settle apparently will not accept him. According to a published report, Spain, Mexico or Panama are on Marcos' list but a Spanish government official was quoted yesterdy as saying he would not be granted asylum. -AP 
Of Interest 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submit­ted at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 


Weather 
Get back to class. Just forget about the 52-degree weather, sunny skies and green beer -what would your mother say if she knew you were at the bars all day? Increasing temperatures tomorrow with possibilities of thundershowers. -AP 


_, 


The Observer 
The Observer is continuing to ex­perience typesetting difficulties in the daily operation of the newspaper. The staff apologizes for any delays or production er­rors. The situation will be mended as soon as possible. 
The Observer ( l 'SPS S99 2-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation ~riods. Thr Obscrvrr is published hy the students of the t 'ni,·ersity of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased h1r SW per year ( HO ~"''semester) by writing The Observer. P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana ~6SS6. 
The Observer is a mem~r of The Associated Press. AU reproduction rights are 
rcsrrvW. 



St. Pat's fests at Notre Dame could be biggest in country 
For the first time in five years, the green suds will 
flow in the land of the golden dome. 
St. Patrick's Day, that notorious festival of parties 
and parades, of Gaelic pride and Irish revelry, has 
finally arrived. This year, because the semester 
schedule has the spring and Easter breaks combined, 
students remain on campus for the celebration, in­
stead of on the beaches or at home. 
Now, what happens when the second most famous 
celebration day of the year (after New Year's Eve) is 
combined with the spirited campuses of the Notre 
Dame community? No joke, it's a mega-party, 
But seriously, folks, this could be the start of 
something big. And even worthwhile. What if Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's students celebrated St. 
Patrick's Day on campus every year? Why not? 
0f course, there are inherent scheduling problems. 
While the administrators usually schedule spring 
breaks during St. Pat's Day because they are afraid 
students will get too wild, this is only part of the pic­
ture. March 17 coincidentally falls right in the middle 
of the semester, neatly breaking it into halves -the 
ideal time for spring break. 

But Notre Dame has the potential to be the site of 
the biggest, best celebration of St. Patrick's Day 
anywhere outside Dublin. The party doesn't necessari­
ly have to happen on March 17 every year. It could 
take place before or after. It's the spirit of the event, 
not the day on the calendar. 

So what is standing in the way? Two things: ad­
ministrative anxiety and lack of student initiative. 
Both of these could be eliminated this year if students show some responsibility during the celebra­tion today. There's no way to stop the drinking and partying today -and frankly, who wants to? But there are ways to change people's attitudes. Namely, maturity and responsibility. 
These qualities have already been shown this year. 'The Saint Mary's student government tonight is spon­soring a Paddy Wagon, a school bus that will circulate between the campuses. Turtle Creek, Campus View, Five Corners, the corner of Howard and St. Louis streets, and the corner of Leeland and Rex streets. These are the places where students will generally be celebrating today. 
The bus, which will make the circuit every bald hour 
beginning tonight at 8, will return students from the 
parties safely back to campus. No drinking and driv­
ing. No staggering home in the dark. 
Besides maturity and responsibility, this idea ex­
hibits a certain amount of realism on the part of the 
Saint Mary's student government. You don't have to 
be psychic to realize that people are going to drink to-
Dan McCullough 
News Editor 

0 


day, and some are probably going to drink too much. This project, which provides a free and safe ride home, deserves to be commended. 
Such a realistic approach to the situation should serve as a model for the planning of future St. Patrick's Day projects. With such an attitude, a suc­cessful and fun St. Patrick's Day at Notre Dame could become an annual event. 
St. Pat's Day under the dome could rank nationally with Indiana University's Little 500, the Dartmouth Winter Carnival and the Southern Illinois University's Halloween as nationally-known student celebrations. All these successful student events have three things in common: they are planned by people who are respon­sible and know what they are doing, mature attitudes by most of the people who take part in the celebra­tions, and realism on the part of everybody involved. 
It is laughable to go on the pretense that students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are going to go dry to­day. Fat chance. But with maturity and responsibility on the part of the students, and realism on the part of the administration and activity planners, the home of the Fighting Irish could become the home of the greatest Irish celebration of all time. 
And to think, it could all begin today. 
ST. PATRICK'S DAY SPECIALS 


corned beef 


on rye with Irish 
potato soup 

~-----·"A Little Something Green" Special--
.. 
Wear somethin reen 2 off. corned beefs ecial *Paint our face reen ott corned beefs ecial *Paint our face &hair reen 7 off corned beefs ecial *Come dressed as a le 

*Dress as a le rechaun and s eak fluent Gaelic 
MACRI'S ... a fun place to be, a great place to eat. 

---------~~~~~~~~~~~-----------­
The Observer  Monday, March 17, 1986-page 2  

The Observer Monday, March 1 7, 1986 -page 3 

APPboto 

molly opened to the public Friday. The painting is adjacent to Marcos' office. 
South African rioting kills seven in gold mine 
Auoclated Press 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Rioting between ribal tribal factions at the world's second-largest gold mine yesterday left seven dead and 67 wounded, bringing the death toll to 14 in two days of mine violence, officials said. 
The battle between Xhosa and Sotho miners at Vaal Reefs Gold Mine raged Saturday night till yesterday, ending by noon, said Er­rol Symons, a spokesman for mine owner Anglo American Corp. 
He said factional grievances were unclear, but management was talk­ing with both sides. 
On Friday, police fired on ram~ paging miners demanding bonus pay at Blyvooruitzicht Gold Mine, about 45 miles west of Johan­nesburg. Police said seven miners died from police gunfire or in fac­tional fighting then, and 176 miners were wounded, 58 of whom needed hospitalization. 
Greg Kukard, spokesman for Rand Mines, Ltd., which owns Blyvooruitzicht, siad about 160 miners were dismissed after refus­ing to sign forms saying they wanted to go back to work. He said the mine would resume normal 
TheProoJ I• In 
the Taste! 
Opea Moa•Sat 11 •• Saa4p• Pluo...SOndw•cha...SOia«D Beer& Wine 277-2020 J.oc.ted Ia RoaelaiUI (Next toR••...,. 

operations today after a weeklong 
disruption. 

Vaal Reefs, near Orkney about 
95 miles southwest of Johan­
nesburg, is second in size to a newly 
merged group of five mines in the 
Orange Free State. Both are owned 
by Anglo American; the huge 
South African mining con­
glomerate. 

Vaal Reefs was hit by strike ac­tion earlier this month when miners demanded that police free nine black miners accused of killing four black supervisors. Anglo American refused to yield, and the strike died down. 
Violent strikes and factional 
fighting, common in the mines for 
years, have increased in recent 
months. 

Some analysts blame a climate of unrest in black townships across the country, which has left more than 1 ,200 dead in 18 months. 
Most of the deaths are tied to protests against apartheid, the race segregation system by which .S million whites govern and deny the vote to South Africa's 24 million blacks. 
Police headquarters said three clashes with black rioters late Saturday and early yesterday resulted in seven blacks injured and 41 arrested. 
c _ IKoc:co'sHair Styling 
~~~~ 
Phone 233-4957 
Attn. Campus: 
This man has only one girlfriend. Can you guess which one she is?????? 
Happy Birthday 
Kevin! 
Cor, Maura & Michelle 


Lent 

Penance Service 
Tues., March 18 
lO:OOp.m. 

HOMILIST: REV •• ANDRE LEVEILLE, C,S,C, 
Socrcd lloo.rt <hlrch l)!l"""''ty or Notre' Dvrc 

The Observer Monday, March 17, 1986-page 4 ~­

AP Photo
The Minnow it's not The salvage ship, the Stena Workhorse, heads Workhorse was brought into port Friday because back out to sea Saturday under the watchful eye of of heavy seas but will resume its work in trying to a pelican at Port Canaveral, Fla. The Stena salvage debris from the Space Shuttle Challenger. 


Ship nabs new Challenger debris 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -A salvage ship yesterday plucked from the ocean bottom a 3,250­pound chunk of debris that might be part of the right solid rocket booster suspected of causing the Challenger explosion. 
The Stena Workhorse, which has a lifting capacity of 10 tons, hoisted the 6-by-18-foot piece aboard after a robot submersible attached lines to it at a depth of 400 feet, a Navy' spokeswoman said. 
The ship then moved from the site, about 28 miles east-northeast of Cape Canaveral, to another location four miles away. There, the crew sought to retrieve what may be another part of the right 
Kaplan LSATPREP. .. 
BE 
OVER40 

8tLOVEITI 
No matter what your age, ifyou 
plan on going to law school. a 
score over 40 can put spring in 
your step! 
'rou see, candidates who score 
between 40 and 48 on the new 
Law School Admission Test enjoy 
the best chance ofbeing ac­
cepted to the law school oftheir 
choice and going on to practice 
with top firms or corporations. 
At the Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Center; LSJ\f prepa­ration is a fine art. So much so that Kaplan has more "over 405" grads than any other test prep 
firm in the nation. 
I
lsnl thatjust the test edge yourlawcareerdesetveS? · 

KAPLAN 
® 
STANLEY H KAPLAN EDUCATIONAL GNTER lTD. 
The worlds leading test prep organization. 
Call!leVI.Ewninga. Even Weekends 
1717 E. South Bend Ave 
South Bend In 46637 (219) 272-4135 
For Information Regarding 
Over 120 Centers OUTSIDE N.Y. STATE CALL TOLL FREt 800-223-1782 preparation for the I.SM and over 30 other standarized examinations 

booster, a 4-by-5-foot section 6:>u feet down. 
This piece, if part of the right rocket, could be critical to the in­vestigation because it might contain the segment joint believed to have started the accident. 
''We still don't know if they are parts of the left or right SRB," said Lt. Cmdr. Deborah Burnette, spokeswoman for the Navy search and salvage operation. 
Investigators have focused on a joint between the bottom two segments of the right booster. Photographs taken on launch day show a puff of black smoke spew­ing from the area of the joint on lif­toff and a plume of flame escaping from the same area 58 seconds later .. 
The space shuttle exploded 73 seconds after liftoff of Jan. 28, kill­ing the seven crew members. 
Rough seas, which have stalled search and recovery efforts for two days, subsided yesterday, allowing a fleet of 10 ships and two manned submarines to resume operations. 
In another part of the search zone, divers battled strong currents 100 feet below the surface as they worked to retrieve more debris from the crew cabin of the Challenger. 
Most of the cabin wreckage and astronaut remains are already on shore, sources close to the in­vestigation have said. Military pathologists were identifying and examining the remains in a laboratory at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIE1Ys 
t\ 
ND & SMC Students & Guests 
SPRING BREAK 86' Party at 
•


tlae area's Higla Ene'1JY Club! Thursday Mar 20 8:30-? 
86¢cover 

•
86 ¢cocktails (bar brands) 

Miami Vice lookalilre contest $50 Caala Jstpriael 
ReMeMber Thurs April1 0 after brealt suntan contest· $50 Jstpmel 
•4 'tax•IUbe added to eoelrtafr.. 
Start planning now for 

~~~~BEACH PARTY Aprll3 
Coj.tumE. aont£j.t, fni.z£j., fun 
and dtink J.pE.ai£L{J. 


.-~~---------~~--------~--~ 
SPRING BREAK '86 
'" Ft. Lauderdale • 
~ on the beach 


BLOODY MARY SPECIAL 
For you early rfMra, have a Bloody Mary and KEEP THE MUGI 
lOam to 6pm POOLSIDE PARTIES 
UVI! D.J. EMCEEING POOLSIDE CONTEST • WATER VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT • FREE BEER CHUG RELAYS • FREE T·SHIRT RELAYS THE BELLYFLOP CONTEST • AND CUMAX THE DAY WITH ... THE WETTEST, WET T·SHIRT CONTEST FEATURED IN PLAYBOY MAGAZINE CASH PRIZES • FREE T•SHIRTS • AND OTMER GIVEAWAYS 
7pmto 8 pm COUEGE HAPPY HOUR 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PARTY *MONDAY, MARCH 24 
FREE SPRING BREAK '86 T·SHIRT WITH PAID ADMISSION FOR ABOVE COLL£GE STUDENTS BETWEEN 1 O'CLOCK AND 8 O'CLOCK WITH PI!OPER COLL£GE I.D. 
ALL BAR DRINKS AND DRAFT BEER-$.75 COMPETE IN CONTESTS FOR PRIZES! 
EVENINGS 
SUMMERS on the beach presents.•. 
FT. LAUDERDALE'S FINEST FlOCK 'N ROLL BAND NIGHTLY PLUS OUR INTERNATIONALLY ACCLAIMED D.J. SPINNING THE BEST DANCE MUSIC AND ALL DAY, ALL NIGHT MUSIC VIDEO. 
MON, WED & THUR: ~ SATURDAY: Contest Nlte \;1 Come and Party til 3 AMI Prizes &giveaways 
SUNDAY:
TUE& FRI: 
VIdeo Mualc Nlte"Best Buns on the Beach" Contest 

O.nc. to our wlrcM .a,...,. ricMo 
-byPloyboy-no 

•nd apecl•l effecta light ahOW' a175.00 Cash Prizes between band -.. 
r--CliP ANO SAVE -----------------------------CLIPANO SAVE-., 
!UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D~"· PARTY • MONDAY ,MARCH 24 I 
I ONE FREE BAR DRINK OR DRAFT OR SOFT DRINK I I GOOD FROM 7·8 PM NIGHTLY I 
1 (LII'tllt one per cualomer) 
1 

rSummers on the Beach* 219 S. Atlantic Blvd. • Ft. Lauderdale, Florida • (305) 462-8978 I 
1 (Located Vt block north of Las Olas Blvd. on A 1 Al 1 
: FLORIDA DRINKING LAW: You must be born on or before June 30, 1966 I 







1 SPiiNG8iiAKd;86 
1 



----------......,--------~-­
The Observer Monday, March 17, 1986-page 5 

I~~~~ rain fo~~:.~ ..?.!.~!!!,~~~~I~~~~~~~:~::;~ 
OTTAWA -Prime Minister A senior Canadian diplomat, Drew Lewis and former Ontario Premier William Davis were

Brian Mulroney will be seeking ac-
I 
YOUR OCULAR ACCOMMODATION NEVER LOOKED SO GOOD. 

Not to mention your subjective correction. And your dioptric power. But even if you overlook all the technological beauty that went into your new glasses from NuVision, you probably won't overlook how great they make you look. 
RIGHT NOW DURING NUVISION'S SPRING SALE: 

ON FRAMES 
when you buyprescription lenses. 
SAVEUPTO~O 
ON CONTACTS.t 
Extended wear contacts $40 off. Daily-wear contacts $20 off. 
Eye examination extra. Available by independent licensed optometrist.



,-------, 
L_ _j 
FREE TINTIWith the purchase of a complete pair of  1  
1  prescription glosses with plastic lenses.  1  
1 Coupon good for a solid tlnlln any color.  1  


THE SCIENCE OF BETTER VISION. 
tion to fight acid rain and a renew­ecf commitment to negociating a free-trade agreement when he meets President Reagan and con­gressional leaders tomorrow and Wednesday in Washington, of­ficials said. 
Mulroney, whose Progressive Conservative government has been sagging in popularity, will be hop­ing to show results from his careful efforts to nurture a close friendship with Reagan. 
The two leaders, both of Irish descent, met last year on St. Patrick's Day in Quebec City for what was billed a "Shamrock Sum­mit." Among the festivities was a solo rendition by Mulroney of a 
Class 
continuedfrom page I 
disbanding that," said Keegan. "We think that detracts from student life at Notre Dame," he said. 
The ticket of Michael Kelly, Edward Rossinni, Heather Brieter, and Linda Goldschmidt plans to "liven up" social life, according to Kelly. 
"The most important thing is that we have to use the resources like the SYRs to the best of our ability and make them better, and if possible get more," said Kelly. 
Kris Malaker of the Malaker, Brian DiBona, Melissa Houk, and John Ofenloch ticket said 
i12' Medl m PI""'" ( t . , I Senate
• U &.&.M any 0pp1ng, • continued/rom page I 
! with extra cheese 
•

: • PLUS 
: 

!• Garlic Bread with cheese • : Delivery Orders Only 
: :•.. $5 • 25 

(plus delivery and tax) 
:

• Limited· Dellvery Area
r 

• io• ~ 
•.:. ..o"'i-~ nO~~-Pizza 
..,. 0 .-~fl"' 
-" 
• 0~

• c; : • : 52929U.S..3l North 
: ......., -......,•---· 
: 277-5880 
•

! i 
briefing reporters on condition he not be identified, said the Washington visit would be "a more businesslike meeting to engage the attention and the involvement of the administration at the highest politicallevel." 
Mulroney and Reagan are to meet an hour each day at the White House, and the Canadian prime minister will also have sessions with Secretary of State George Shultz and with key House and Senate leaders. 
Acid rain, the chief irritant in U.S.-Canada relations for at least five years, promises once again to be the headline item on the agenda. 
that more activities and class newsletter improvements are their major goals if elected. 
"We need more informal dances, and it doesn't seem that enough people are getting (the present sophomore class newsletter)," Malaker said. 
The ticket of George Molin­sky, Karen Ruff, Andy Kinney, and Carolyn Aylward plans to involve the class in organizing activities, said Molinsky. 
"We feel the students of Notre Dame are a very active people and like to get involved, and we'd like to give them a chance," he said. 
Mike Moynihan of the Moynihan, Chris Sullivan, Tim Cummins, and Patty Fanning ticket said the theme of their ! off-campus needs more access to 
• . f .
• campus m ormatton.
: Fred Pugliano is also competing : for the district 5 bid, and he wants 
• 
to streamline the senate and "get! somethingdone. 

• 
Pugliano also wants to reduce : the administration's grip on student : affairs. "They should guide and


:•.• help in residence life, not dictate to
it," he said. Also on Pugliano's platform are ideas for an off­: campus block party and making 
•.• Corby's into a student club. 
Rounding out the battle for off­
• campus is Chris Sheedy. Sheedy =.•. gives increased information for off-
campus students the top seat on his platform. Sheedy said he would
•
• 
hold meeting-parties at his house : "to get as much information as 

• 
possible." He also wants to get a 


: lounge in LaFortune for off­: campus students. : Sheedy said he thinks the struc­
• ture of the senate is fine. 
ap­pointed as "special envoys" on acid rain. 
Their report in January declared acid rain a serious transboundary problem -and proposed a $5 billion research program, half com­ing form the U.S. government and half from industry. 
An American official, also speaking on condition that he not be identified by name, said he was optimistic the White House will act favorably toward the report. "There's been a real movement toward recognition that this is a real problem that's not caused by forests or volcanos," the official said. 
campa1gn is the "active ap­proach." 
"We want to get input from our class and turn that into something concrete in the end for • student life," said Moynihan. 
The ticket of Stephen Shake, Mike Kletzly, Gretchan Schaf­fer, and Susan Rosenthal holds as its goal the scheduling of "as many activities as we can," ac­cording to Shake. 
"We want to get the whole class to be active and have the opportunity to have as much fun as they want to have," said Shake. 
Class office elections will be held tomorrow with run-offs on Thursday if necessary. 

THE ART OF LOOKING GOOD. 
Offer good or participating olllces only. Some reslricllons apply. torr Regular price or replacement lenses 
LaSalle Square 234·3123 University Park Mall277·8682 McKinley Town &Country 256·1864 Elkhart Maii·Eikhart 295·2496 Plymouth Center-Plymouth 936·5012 Niles, 1012 Main Street, 684·8008 
Copyright 1986. NuVIslon, Inc 
Pat Giblin Band Playing 
*
* 

Green Beer 25¢ 
* 

Shots of Jameson Irish Whiskey $1.25
*
'*
'* 

: PRIZES! PRIZES! PRIZES! 

~*********************' 
PREPARE FOR: 


LSAT 
• 
TEST N TAPE' LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET 


1717 E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272-4135 

~-------­
r 


View~_o_i_n_t_________
Mo-nd-ay_,M-ar-ch-17_, 1-98-6--pa-ge-6 
see Nicaragua as a threat to our southern borders, and they claim that the contra war serves to distract the Sandinistas from their real purpose: to spread a Marxist revolution throughout Central America. 
Yet the United States continues to ignore the entire Western Hemisphere, and the San­dinistas themselves. According to John Oakes in last Friday's NewYork Times, not one major democratic government in this hemisphere, from Canada to Argentina, supports the fun­ding. The United States refuses to recognize the Contadora peace process, and scoffs at the possibility of negotiations with the San­dinistas. 
The main reason that funding the contras appears to be a mistake is the unfeasibility of the "Reagan solution." To believe that pressure from outside-financed guerillas will establish a liberal democracy in Nicaragua is absurd. What exactly does Reagan see the contras accomplishing? 
The Chicago Tribune's editorial board buys the Reagan solution. They see the contras as keeping the Sandinistas pre-occupied so the solidification ofa Marxist regime becomes im­possible. But the Sandinistas are determined to keep power and, contrary to Reagan rhetoric, have healthy popular suppon. They are sturdier than they were three years ago and toppling them would take more than several thousand agitators. 
While no one wants communists coming up through Texas, and no one wants to see anot­her Cuba in Central America, those opposed to contra funding disagree with the Chicago Tribune, and the Reagan administration, and are afraid of a long, unwanted foreign policy mess. 
They do not agree with Reagan's vision of a "sea of red" if the rebels fail to receive their weapons. Rather than being friends ofthe San­dinistas, they see themselves as careful protectors ofAmerican moral validity. 
Due to the contras' unspeakable crimes, it is beyond reason to believe that the rebels and those who lead them could be any better for the people of Nicaragua than those currently holding power. But were the contras actually the "moral equivalent of the Founding Fat­hers," it still makes no sense to give noo mil­lion to a group that does nothing but agitate another government, be that government Cuba, Angola, China, or even the Soviet Union itself. Simply put, it is not our place. 
How's that for intuition? 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major and is a regular View­point columnist. 
Quote of the day 

"An Irishman is never drunk as long as he can hold on to one blade of grass and not fall offthe face ofthe earth." 
Irish saying 

A ware ness initiative should be carried on 
Student attention last week was focused on alcohol. Not on drinking it, nor on objections to the University's policy, but on awareness. 
Last week was Alcohol Awareness Week. A series of events were organized by students to inform students about the effects of alcohol, a drinker's respon­sibilities and alternatives to alcohol abuse. The University has needed such a program for a long time. 
Two years ago, Notre Dame drastically changed its alcohol policy in response to a report by the University's Committee on the Responsible Use of Alcohol. Besides the limiting of alcohol use on campus, the committee recom­mended an administrative commitment to alcohol education and the further development of counseling programs. The committee advised that a perma­nent Office of Alcohol Education be established as part of the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. 
To date, these recommendations are still just words on paper. It has taken a dedicated group of students to begin a serious effort to in­crease the alcohol awareness of all students. 
The program, sponsored by student government's Alcohol Concerns Com­mission, the Around the Corner Club and the Student Activities Board, has featured discussions, lectures, a workshop and a concert by a recovered alcoholic. All events were coordinated as an active way of addressing the alcohol problem on campus. 
Let's hope that the initiative taken by these student groups is not abandoned because the week is over. The administration must recognize its responsibility and demonstrate its commitment to alcohol education. 
-The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ 
We should take a lesson from Tillman's example 
Dear Editor: 
Congratulations to Dennis Tillman, whose 
article on changing one's perspective reflects 
an attitude badly lacking here under the 
Golden Dome. 
Tillman raises some questions which also 
came up during a discussion of the film 
"Killing Us Softly," presently being shown in 
various dorms around campus. What is it to 
be a man or woman? Black or white? Is it 
something external which defines us, or do 
we have qualities within which set us apart 
from each other? 
As Tillman has pointed out, even those of 
us who consider ourselves open-minded 
often are unaware of the prefudices and 
stereotypes which people who are different 
Doonesbl!_ry 
from ourselves must endure, and to which we, ourselves, often fall victim. 
It isn't easy to defy what our society or class or race has defined as "acceptable" or "desirable." For instance, Tillman states that the thought of putting on hose, wearing cosmetics and walking to class in high heels scares him enough to make him thankful for his maleness. 
What is it about those particular things which pertain to femaleness? What is it that makes us more "feminine?" If we dress, paint our faces and walk in a certain way? 
I would hope that many of us would learn from Tillman's example and examine how and why we act and define ourselves. It may actually he frightening, as he suggests. 
Barbara Grant Farley Hall 

Nicaraguan contra aid will soon be regretted 
original revolutionary promises. They
If Ronald Reagan can rule this country by intuition occasionally, and I believe he does at times, then I can write an opinion using my own intuition. I have a feeling that the U.S. fun­ding of the contras in Nicaragua is a mistake, and that we will regret it. 
Ken Kollman no easy solutions 
The history books will look at the Reagan 
administration's habit of giving aid to anti­
communist guerillas as shon-sighted foreign 
policy, unwarranted meddling in another na­
tion's affairs, and the result of reactionary 
rhetoric by anti-communist pseudo-pundits. 
My intuition tends to be opinionated. 
Reagan is fighting an uphill battle on this 
issue. Already two House committees have 
voted to dissapprove of his request for $1 00 
million for the Nicaraguan rebels, and sources 
repon that about ten votes need to be swayed 
in the House for it to pass. 
Surprisingly, Reagan's rhetoric worked against him last week. Lawmakers from both parties expressed resentment at being labelled friends of "Daniel Onega and the Communists" by White House Communica­tions Director Patrick Buchanan, and the result has been several members of Reagan's own party rebuking him for "red baiting." One Representative, Maryland Democrat Michael Barnes, even went so far as to accuse Reagan and his advisors of "the moral equivalent of McCarthyism." 
Last Wednesday, Reagan claimed that Central America will be "covered in a sea of red" ifCongress does not come fonh with the funds. Quotes like this and other absurdities ignore the reason for Congressional opposi­tion. 
It becomes more apparent every day, al­though many have known for several years, that the U.S.-backed rebels are not the "good guys" the administration pretends them to be. Calling them "freedom fighters" is like calling Secretary Weinberger "O.exible." Verified reports ofatricious crimes against civilians are ignored by those in favor of funding. On Feb. 20, the New York Times reponed an incident where U.S.-backed rebels mined a civilian bus, killing most aboard, then shooting tt,.;: sur­vivors. Somewhere amidst all the information flooding the White House, somehow the hor­ror stories that the Nicaraguans tell get lost. Or more accurately, they are ignored by Cold War ears and eyes. 
Supponers ofcontra funding (ll'gue that the Sandinista government has reneged on its 
Garry Trudeau 

Editorial Board Operations Board 
-~Ihe_Q_b·.se~~er
--------A.-=-Y=-~ --­
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch 
P.O. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
News Eaitor .... .........................................Frank Lipo Controller ............................. William J. Highducheck News Editor ................................... Dan McCullougl Advertising Manager~· ...........................Jim Hagan 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of 
Saint Mary's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Advertising Manager .................~ .. Anne M. Culligan
Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the 
Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Systems Manager ...... ~ ................ Mark B. Johnson 
administration of either instillltion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­
Accent Editor ......................................... Mary Healy Production Manager ....................... John A. Mennell 
sible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of a majority of the Editorial Board. Commen­
Viewpoint Editor ....................'. ....... . ..... Joe Murphy Photography Manager....................... Tripp Baltz taries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is 
Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wott. 
available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 


The Obserwr Monday, March 17, 1986-page 7 
NCAA Tournament round-up 

Sports Briefs Syracuse, St. John's upset victims 
points for State, 20-12. Arkansas, 23-ll, was led by Myron Jackson with 23 points. 
Cleveland State, which had upset 'Indiana, got 23 points from Ken McFadden, 17 from Clinton Ransey and 16 from Clinton Smith in winning the battle on unranked teams. It was the 14th straight vic­tory for the Vikings, 29-3, who are making their first NCAA tourna­ment appearance. 
Illinois could have used some of Navy's foul shots. The 19th-ranked Illini did not get a single free throw, while Alabama hit for six for nine from the line. 
Terry Coner's 12-foot shot from just inside the foul line was the win­ner for the Crimson Tide, who had blown a 13-point halftime lead. Buck Johnson's block of baseline attempt by Efrem Winters with 26 seconds remaining set up the winn­ing goal for Alabama, 24-8, Illinois closed at 22-10. 
Kenny Walker his on all ll of his field-goal attempts and scored 32 points, pacing third-ranked Ken­tucky to its 13th straight win in on­ly the second meeting between the two schools, which are located 120 miles apart. Western Kentucky won the other game, 107-83 in the 1971 NCAA tournament. 
Kentucky, 31-3, built a 16-point lead with just under ll minutes left, then Western Kentucky, 23-8, rallied to cut the lead to 63-59. Kannard Johnson led Western Ken­tucky with 20 points. 
Support 
March of Dimes 
-BIRTH DEFECT'S FOUNDATION-

Thl' Oh.<<'rl'l'r :-.lotrt· l>amt· ottitt'. lot.l!t'O 011 tht· third floor of I.Jh>rtum· ~!lldt·nt <.l'ntt'r. acn·pt' da"otit·d Jdn·rt""'!: Irom<) J m Ul1111 1 p m. \lond;l\ through l'rioav The Ohserr·a Saul! .\I an·, oll'ttl' lot.llnlo11 tht· thor<.J floor of ltag~:ar Coll.-gt· <.t·ntn. J<Tl'ph <·ia'"lil'tb from 12 \II p m untol \ p m ..\!on OJ)' though froda1 l>t'Jdlinc lor 11t'Xt dJI <IJ'"Iinl' " ~ p m All l'IJ"'"''"' 
must ht· prl'paid. t•ithn in pt·.-on or h1 mJol <.hargt· i' I() l'l'nb lll'r line ,·harac





Classifieds 
t.-rs t·r dav 


NOTICES 
Typing Available 287-4082 
TYPING CALL CHillS 
2344117. 
f>AO.TYPE ......,.,.., ... _., ell• ..-tiona, etudent _..277-503. 
ATTN: ITUDI!Nn Doloree F rande typing lllt'VIce phone nu-dlange 2n·8131 
Wordproceuong-Typong 272-8827 
Need r1de to WASHINGTON D.C. lor Spnng Break WIU llhare u111.1al. Cal Lorri 11284·5315 
EXPEIIT TYPING IEIIY!CE. CALL MilS. COKER, 2»-7008. 
PRC>-TYPE epedallzong In student papera, law pap11r1, re111.1mea. diuerta­tlona 2n·!l833. 
512 K MACINTOSH UPGRADE Quality work. One day t81Vtce. Only $150, uve hundreds For more info. call Chuck, 3302 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOIT-LOST-LOST-LOST !.D. LOIT THUIIIDAY NIGHT (LATE) ALONG WITH DIIIVI!III UCENCE AND A DETEX. IF FOUND, PLEAIE CONTACT FIIAN AT 2244. 
IIEWAII~IIEWAJIID-IIEWAII~ 
REWARD 
eomaone atole my -yfrom a monday night party at 814 corby The only po$SeSSion I have that I$ worth anything, anolympua 011>-10. I'm r~ gonne miM It eo I'm wiling to glva caeh lor lt'a return. It -IMt -on a cbalr 
,_the at...... II you hava It and you have any ...,.. ol dac:ancy p-caH Mollie Matchant Ill 4038 
REWAIIO...S4<).00 LOST Iliaci< tu•edo jacket with !aile and red bow tie. Both In v.fll!e plaatic bag loet 3/8 at OC Party on 
E. Navarre 51. Need deaparatelyl Call 3810. Chuck. 
LOST: One class ring with aquamarone birth stone Any information leading toward recovery will be rewarded. call 1572. 
LOST -·Ladiee gold watch on Nonh Quad or In North Dining Hal. Pleue. pi-call Unda (4135) Kyou find I!. 
......................... 
LOST: BLUE NOTRE DAME BAND JACKET. LEFT ON STEPAN B-BALL COURTS TUES. 3/11. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL BRIAN AT 11451 
To v.flomever picked up D.J. Lally· 30848'e laundry on 3/6 or 3n: Whethlll' you took my bund!e(e) on purpoae or not ia of linte consequence to me-·1 jut! need my clothes and can't afford to buy all brand-new oneal Pleaae return them. and no mattlll' what, abao!ulely no queationa will be uked. Drop It by 350 Sorin or call 2171. Than•. 
found; on Friday. 14 Mar. Pair of fake lea!· her brown g!ovea (lllghtly) worn) on eouth quad. Go to loet & found In Lafonune to claim. They are too small for me. 
............................................................. Semo·furnished house In good neighbor· hood 255-3684t2n·3604 
Ft. Lauderdale apt. wk. May 17·24. $300. Cal289-1973. 
............................
a,;,'R.oom S100/Mo 2n·2045 
IL__W_A_NT_E_D----1 
NEED A MALE IIOOMMATE IN HOU .. TON, TX, AFTEII QIIAD. CAU. 11011 x1743 
.... .. ....... 

NDE NEEDED TO CENTRAL NEW YOIIK FOil IIIEAK. Syracull8 or Rocheater prelered. Can leave any time Thurlday aHernoon or Friday morning. Willlhare alle•penaes. Call Eric at 1989. 
.......................... 

Need RIDE to NEW JERSEY can leave 3/21 call John at 1024 
NE'Ei)' FII'DE'RS'''TO''FLA.'''ON'E''WAY. 
CALL JOHN 2506 

NEED RIDE BACK FROM FLORIDA AFTER BREAK. CALL JOHN 2506 
....................... 

NEED RIDERS TO SOUTH FLORIDA AREA. CAN PROVIDE MEAL AND OVERNIGHT ACCOMIDATIONS AT FINEST MOTEL IN CLEWISTON. CALL X2571 
RIDER TO SAN ANTONIO OR AUSTIN, TX AREA FOR BREAK. RENTING A CAR. INTERESTED? CALL STEVE K. AT17B6. 
N;d'rid~-i~·y~·~~·~~~:·Ohi~·i;·t;;;k 
can leeve Thursday after 7:00 p.m. if you can help call Laura 272·6014 
Need ride to T aledo area for Break call T...a 284-4194 
.............................. 
N;;;;d"rid~ ..j~ Dayton for break Brenda 284·5193 
FOR SALE 
................................................................ 
Complete Apple III 256K syatem with In· tegrated eoftware and s81Vice contract until October 1986. Bue syatem $650. With 5 megabyte ProFile hard disk and acceuory klt$1, 100. Contact M. Johnoon at239-7252. 
AlliMN·~··ANO ..RiC'H'RiE'NDS~·:;.·t;;·~irit 
ot Rockne !lvee on! Picture youraelf In a Notre Dame blue 1933 Studebaker Rockne. Though an antique. II runs like new and look• enappy, too. For detaile or a closer look. call (219) 283-1373 
5 Bedroom House. Fully furnished. All ap­pliances & furniture included. Great In­vestment. Nice neighborhood. 4 miles lrom NO. $22.000. Call eveninga 288­3109. 
IMAGEWRITER !.Brand new. $300.00. 234·1672. 
TICKETS 
ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKET: S. Bend/Newark, 3/22·3/31, $178, Call Dave4303 
PERSONALS 
OAII HOUSE: COLD BEER l LIQUOR. CAFIIIY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., 1 BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
................................................. 
ST. PAT'S PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the UNITED WAY I $.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE 
NOW 
Thank You St. Jude lor all your help! Pleaae continue to help mel 
BOSTON BOUND FOR SPIIINO 
BIIEAK? 
NEEDAIIIDE? 
Ofl QOINO THIIU ALaANY, 
SYIIACUSE, IIOCHESTEII,IUFFALO 
Ofl ElliE? PLEASE join two intllt'eating 
domers on their to Harvard. We'N leave Fri 
March 21. PLEASE call 38611100n. 
Pif:'Eo..A..R'iof:"L.uviii'o..wiaii::..o:c. 
MAJICH 277 Join two domen on their way back from SPRING BREAK . PLEASE CALL 3861. 
Found: pearl braclet on Eddy St. Saturday nig/11. Call!o claim· 284-4138 
IIACETHOMAN FOR OFF-CAMPUS COMMISSIONER FUN & EXPERIENCE IIACEII 
................................................................ 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE. I couldn't IWVa dona it without your halp. 
M.H.B. T.D. 
I need a ride to Milwaukee, Marquette oo Friday, March 21. I can leave after 2. Call Margie at 284-4425. 
.................................... 
FRESHMENIIFRESHMENII Vote Keagan -lhemon We'll work "with the class," not "u the dau." 
...................................... 
D~..;;;;.:;·RU.N?. /Ve you ATHLETIC? Do 
you want people to think you are ATH· LETIC? Do you like making up storiea to shapely women or Godly men about your ATHLETIC put during Spring Break? Purchue one of Umlted number Of official UNIV. of NOTREbAME TRACK & FIELD T·Shlrto($8) or Grey Sweat Topl($15). To uk questions or to get ana~ere caU TROZ at239-7634. 
a:r:.. P'ATfiicK·s ·DAY WEEKEND 
CELEBIIAnONIU 24-HOUII D.J.'S, flltSH IIUN, PRE-IT. PAT'S IIIIUNCH, ST. PATS DAY BASH AND AWESOME RIIEWOIIKSIII 
.................................. 
THANK YOU IT. JUDE. I could IWVa navar done It without your help 
RIDE NEEDED:to that booming motropolia.KEWANEE,IL.(ON I· 80)3/21 or22 Share usuai.Call Jack 2073 
............................................ 
o'"c'iiicAOO CLUI IWEATSHIIITS AIIEHEIIEI Be the flrat In your dorm to wear the latest in eweatshirt fuhlona. Available at...... ntE CELLAII M·F 11 :30-4:30 

Applications lor 
TICKET STUB MANAGER now available at Ticke!Stub. Due Wed. 3/19. Sign up for in!81View um... Yoflen you drop off your application at SAB office, 2nd floor LaFonune. ln181Viewa held3/19. 
Galvin and Hobbes are gocllkel 
T-SHIRTS 
T·SHIRTS 
T·SHIRTS 
TO AU. THOSE KIND PEOPLE WHO ORDERED SPIIINO IIREAK FOfiEVEII T·SHIRTS THEY ARE INIII PLEASE CONTACT GEORGE OR TOM IN 370 DILLON (PHONE 1854) YOU CAN PICK THEM UP NOW THROUGH BREAK SO DONT FORGET THEM! THE "JUST FOR PLEASURE" SALESMEN 
"'iiTEV'ErA'Evif:R'Tii'cOM'iii'Ai'ON.. 
VOTE FOUR ... FOR MORE STEVE TAEYAEII,-.cOMMISSIONER MAllY KAY STEINMETZ-ASST. COM· MISSIONER MAliK CONCE8-SOCIAL CHAIRMAN KATE MULLANEY-TREASURER VOTE TAEYAEIIU FOil O.C. COM­MIISIONEII 
ROB LOFARO ... You're the greatest • thanka for being such a good friend Love, JENNIFER 
................................................................ 
BB KR!SCO MOSES LUMBO TUCK and HEYHARWOCK Rappln' Duke saya, "Party here, party there..." PW saya, "We'll party anywhere!" HEE HEE hee hee. 
If your DEBIT1 don't equal your CIIEDITS, Your AISETS In Jalll 
FRESHMAN Want A Social Ufe? VOTE CREADON Soph. Clua Prez 
Hung<y? Call YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272-H!KE. Delivery houro: Monday· Thursday 5pm-12am. GIVE US A CALl.. 
KELLY DEMPSEYIll this gorgeous F.-ley freshman is 19 today, call and wish her a happy birthdayl!l 
Some day you are all going to wake up and realize what you have been miaalng. Stop looking lor perfection and see what It right In front of you I 
To My Unte I taMan Bird: You'reMving proof of the luck of the lrillhll Love, Mark 
Ahspring... 
...................................• 
IRISH FIRST. STUDENT SECOND!! 

I'VE BEEN IRISH LONGER THAN I'VE BEEN A STUDENT· SORRY DUMAN, I'M GOING OUTII 
OH HAPPY DAY ... 
HEY! I'm going to 

Aluon,Ohto The home of Gerry Fauat and the Akron Zips (the onea who played Michigan In the finl! round laat week). So, Uke If you need a Hit from hllt'e to !hllt'e or anywhere In bat· ween, give me a call. 2113-1582 aftllt' 10pm·Andy. 
Attention old and new I.T.E.P. TUTORS!! Enrollment at the juvenile facility hu rleen to 20 boya. They need YOUII helpl Can you epare jult 2 hro. Mon. or Thuro. eveninga?? AU. are welcomeIll Cal Eric 1850 or Tracy 4241. 
HAPPY 20th PATIIICE MANI!I Muat• have been the luck of the lrillh ...we got you for a roommate!! LUV T.,K .. and M.T. 
You wllt'e In Nonh Dining Hall lor lunch on Friday wearing a wild· Hawaiian-type brown shirt··l'd like to know v.flo you are. 
0: WHO IS THE ONLY CANDIDATE EN· 
DORSED BY CURRENT O.C. COMM!&­SIONER? 
A: RACE THOMANI THAT'S WHO!I! 
VOTE RACE O.C. COMMISSIONER! 3/18 
"I feel like I'm locked In a cage Noway In, noway out." 

KEN 1ST WAIIM KEN 1ST WAJIIM KEN 
ISTWAIIM 
onP Y YIOLADOfl SON IIIIEIIDAI 
FROMCIEOA 
discover 
clacovar 
DISCOVER 
DtiCOVEII 
Ombudaman Presents Oparatlon lnllnetorm 

...coming aoonl 
Help I need ride deapllt'alely to Mln­neapolle for break will ahare expenaee cal Lee Ann 284·5520 
An Tostal co-ed innertube water polo sign­
ups will be held tomorrow at 7 p.m. at the information desk in LaFortune. Teams must field seven players at a time, two of which must be women. Teams may have a maximum of two current ND water polo team members or two varsity swimmers. Entry fee is $7 per team. For more information call Mike Roberts at 272-3971. 
The Observer 
The ND Windsurfing Club will hold a meeting tomorrow at 7 p.m. in the LaFortune Little Theatre. Anyone in­terested in joining the club should attend. For more information call Kevin Laraley at 283-1148. -The Observer 
An Tostal Mud Volleyball signups will be held tomorrow and Wednesday from 3 to 5 p.m. at the LaFortuen in­formation desk. Teams must consist of seven players, at least two of which must be women. Teams are also limited to one current SMC or ND varsity volleyball player. Entry fee is $3 per team. For more information call Bob Albertini or Brian Aquadro at 283­1248. -The Observer 
An Tostal Ultimate Frisbee signups will be held Wednesday between 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Main Lobby. Rosters must include a minimum of 10 players and ID numbers are required for all players. For more information call Lance Williams at 283-4020. -The Observer 
The ND Rowing Club will hold a general meeting concerning the trip to Texas tomorrow at 7 p.m. in Room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Building. For more information call Patricia Warth at 283-2759. -The Observer 
A Bookstore Basketball meeting for all cap­
tains will be held on Wednesday, April2 at 8 p.m. m the Library Auditorium. Attendance is mandatory for all team captains. Schedules will be distributed and games will begin Friday, April4. For more information call Steve Wenc at 283-2506. -The Observer 
Observer Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday until 4 p.m. at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune. Briefs should be submitted on the forms available at the office, and every brief must include the phone number of the person submitting it. -The Observer 
Associated Press 
David Robinson scored 35 points, grabbed 11 rebounds and blocked seven shots in what he termed a sluggish performance as Navy upset Syracuse 97-85 yester­day in a second-round game of NCAA East Regional basketball tournament. 
The 15th straight win for 17th­ranked Navy came in the Carrier Dome at Syracuse, where the ninth­ranked Orangemen have seldom lost this season and where last December they beat Navy 89-67. 
Navy is satisfied with the effort of Robinson, a 61-percent foul shooter going into the game, who hit 21-of-23 free throws. Navy was 4l-of52 from the foul line as it boosted its record to 29-4. Dwayne "Pearl" Washington led Syracuse, 26-6, with 28 points. 
Unranked Auburn guaranteed the NCAA tournament's Final Four will have a new cast this season as Chuck Person scored 27 points and pulled down 15 re­bounds yesterday, leading the Tigers to an 81-65 victory over fourth-ranked St. John's in the se­cond round of the NCAA West Regional. 
The 6-foot-8 Person, who said before the game that he felt snubb­ed by the All-America selectors, showed he belonged against the region's top seed and their All­American forward, Walter Berry. 
Person's 10 rebounds in the first half was one less than the entire St. John's team as the quick-jumping Tigers, 10 to 15 pounds heavier per man than the Redmen, constantly got second and third shots on of­fense and used their defensive re­bounding to trigger numerous fast breaks. 
Jeff Grayer scored 16 points and Ron Virgil added 14 as Iowa State built an 11-point lead and held on to oust No. 5 Michigan, the second seed in the Midwest, which finishes 28-5. The Cyclones, 22-10 and runners-up in the Big Eight, are coached by Johnny Orr, who led Michigan to the Final Four in 1976. Current Michigan coach Bill Frieder was Orr's assistant in the 1970s. 
In the other second-rounct results yesterday, Cleveland State defeated St. Joseph's 75-69 in the East; Alabama edged past Illinois 58-56 and Kentucky beat Western Ken­tucky 71-64 in the Southeast Regional at Charlotte, N.C., and North Carolina State beat Arkan­sas-Little Rock 80-66 in double overtime in the Midwest Regionals at Minneapolis. 
Ernie Myers scored all six of his points in the second overtime, in­cluding a 15-foot jump shot that put North Carolina State ahead to stay in another game between unranhd teams. 
Ken Worthy made one of two free throws with 14 seconds re­maining to send the game into over­time, 56-56. With Myron Jackson scorini six of his 23 points, the Trojans led 61-56, but North Carolina State battled back and Bennie Bolton sent the game into the second extra period at 64-64 when he hit a 15-footer with 15 seconds left. 
Bolton socred only one of his game-high 23 points in the first half and scored all eight of the Wolfpack's points in the first over­time. Chris Washburn scored 22 
The Observer Monday, March 1 7, 1986 -page 8 

UALR 
continuedfrom page 12 
The two teams battled back and forth for the next seven minutes un­til finally UALR took a 57-56 Notre Dame advantage and turned it into a 66-59 lead with a 10-2 spurt. Myers hit for four points from the field, while Clarke hit four times from the free throw line. 
Clarke, normally a 39 percent free throw shooter, made 11-of-14 shots from the gift line against the Irish, although one of his misses was an air ball. 
"My team and coaches had con­fidence in me," Clarke said. "I just took my time and blocked everything out. I surprised a lot of 
people today, including myself." A Notre Dame timeout slowed the Trojans down a little, but not befor Clarke had hit trwice more for a 70-61 lead. The Irish stormed back then for 
a final charge. Kempton hit .underneath, barlow jammed off an ally-oop from Rivers, before 
Rivers, playing with four fouls, hit two outside jumpers to pull NOtre Dame within one at 70­
69. Jackson pushed the lead back to three with a jumper from the right side, but Rivers bombed from the right corner to make it 72­
71. Myers hit two free throws, before Scott Hicks and donald Royal countered with baskets to put the Irish on Top, 75-74, and send UALR coach Mike 'Newell calling for a timeout. 
"I knew Notre Dame would make a run at us," Newell said. ''We got really tired in the last five minutes. We couldn't enen get the ball in­bounds we were so tired. 
"Our guys have risen to the occa­sion all season long, and tonight was no exception. Every time we needed a bsket, we did exactly what we had to and hit the shots. We wanted it bad, and just played an excellent, excellent basketball game." 

Rivers, who scored 25 points on 9-of-19 shooting, said defense was the difference in the game. 
"They played defense rather well overall," said the Irish sophomore. "To win a game, you have to play defense, and they did. It was a team effort for them. 
''We didn't execute our offense, 
we didn't do what we were suppos­ed to do. they outplayed us; that's basically it." 
UALR came out of the timeout and answered with a 12-2 spurt for a 86-77 lead with only 56 ticks of the clock left. Myers, who had 18 second-half points, scored six in the final Trojan surge. 
''When Notre Dame came back, we knew we had to keep our poiseand stay in our game," Myers said. "We knew we could win if we stayed in control. "Beating a team like Notre Dame makes it even sweeter. Everybody knows them, but nobody knows us." 
Many people at Notre Dame now know who Arkansas-Little Rock is, including Phelps, who was left shaking his head afterward. 
"I'm not disappointed in the way we lost," he said. ''We shot 52 per­cent for the game, which is our average, and Little Rock shot 79 percent, which gives you an idea of what we were up against. 
''We just got beat by a good basketball team. They responded to everything we did. These things are going to happen. that's what the NCAA tournament is all about." 
IRISH ITEMS Price left the game early in the second half with a pulled hamstring. . . Reserve Irish guard Michael Smith suffered an ankle sprain in his few minutes of action at the end of the game. 

Celebrate 
'~ 


, TCLUB 
Come to Tivoli's 
St. Patrick's Day Party for United Way Drink specials: ALSO: Party favors 50c Green Draft Beers Irish Buffet 
$1 Shots ()f Schnapps $1.25Mixed Drinks March 17, 1986 9pm-3om $5 donation tickets on sale ar Notre Dame 
Locatedon U.S. 33 IV. at North Village Mall 
~77-1877 

Lochmandy Leasing & Rental, Inc. 
IINational Car Rentalsw 
Weekend ancl Weekly Specials all year round. Need lransportatlon to get on campus for the weekend? check our low rates. Going on a long trip? We have weekly speclols designed for a student's budget. 
One Way Rentals Available to over 1000 locations-at low unlimited mileage rates with no drop charges. Excellent way to get home for vacation at reasonable prices. 

We feature GM cars like this Buick Regal. 
Conveniently Located at the Elkhart Municipal Airport 
G:nter lor 
Sou,1l 

r·~,n,crn~ 

SENIORS: 
Be a missioner for one year, teaching English in Kyoto, Japan 
-
FIND OUT MORE TUESDAY, MARCH 18 LIBRARY CONCOURSE 

9-2pmorat ~ CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS ~ 
._____________________________________________::=
2:00 to 4:30 pm ........ 
Univ•rsityFaad S•rvic:•• R•rr~r•tfully Annaunces the Clasint=~ af The Huddl• 
W• mu•l: mak• way far furl:h•r •xl:•n•iv• r•navat:ian DfLa FDrtuiW Stuca.nt: C•nt:.r. 
EFFECTIVE MARCH 21. I!IBEi at4:DD PM•• THE HUDD~ and DELl will c:ea•• aperatianuntil AUIJ1~•t ao. 1!18&. 
FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE: 
11 NIGHT DAK-will naw apen at Sauth Dinint) Hall •ac:h 
•veninlj fram 7:DD PM ta t:DO AM. EXPANDED MENU. 
2] SNACK BAR -will ~·nat NarthDininiJ Hall -Dini!'l 
Raam F-fram 7:DO PM ta t:DO AM e1ac:h ev•niriiJ1 
!I) LIMITED EDITION DELl-inLobby:.r.:aut:hDini!"t Hall. Haur•: II:DD AM ta ID:DD • B••k•dGaat;•
Snack•. Candy. Pap. Dairy. Yarjurt. 
FDR QUESTIONS DR INFORMATION'"-CALL 2!1!1-72D' 



Monday, March 17, 1986-page 9 
The Observer 
Your plasma makes a difference. 
i~ 


Cash For Your donation 

raJ 
WOIUOWID£ DEMAND FOR PlASMA IS NOT BEING MET. That's why your donation Ia Important. so Important that we'll poy $7.00 for your first donation and $9.00 If you donate a second time within the some 
.~ •••.,calendar week. In addition, If you meet tho physical roquiremenls 
r:. 
you'll be given a FREE physical and $60.00 worlh of FREE Lab Tests. 
Open. TUE. WED., FRI., SAT., 9:00 • 6:00 
AMERICAN PLASMA SYSTEMS 
515 Llncolnway West, South Bend 
New Donors Bring In this ad for a s4Bonus 
BE SURE TO BRING YOUR 1.0. 

Study around the world, visiting Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey, Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in January and September offering 12,15 transferable hours of credit from more than 50 voyage,related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American, built ocean liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. 
For details call toll-free {800) 854..0195 
or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University ofPittsburgh, 2E Fbrbes Quadrangle Pittsburgh, PA 15260 
Thursday, March 20th, llam-Jpm Information table at Laf'ortune Center 4:30pm Film on 2ndfloor LaFortune Center International Studies Lounge 
ALLINTERSTEDSTUDENTSANDFACULTY ARE ENCOURAGED TO A TrEND 
-noOluOI~ 
~ ~-yQ.f 
OONICltiiNU\1 Olflftne• TIW 
Olflforc:•~»­
~lbOwiMI· 
I1Q I norINI. IC I.,. ... 01 DerQ 1Jn rf'N.IOCI TIWW ~hive I -.1­.,_, ,.,.,._, """'n \fToCliV ,...,. ln.JI ~­
_., c;anncx CIOI D'I•MI lhry lll...au\IY 111:1 llli~IV lhl<tlff<l II• bKIUW lhr'l CWO tllef<l 10 oucn 11om 1 lfWllJI/ ~Y T()(lly trwv e111 Df """"' ""n 1 Cloetng IKtOI ln.JI 1,.,., _, DCXIlf\ 
oo noc lll<n.c• 
And that dotting faCtor Is taken trom the plaSma you donate. 
How much plasma Is needed? , 101. Fat.._.,­
lftl ofi)IWOII 'l'llot Ira I'*> I tUI(lOCIIIII of II'C OlllnQ IICIOI ~.-_to~ CIIIIM ,,. ......, I()( liltQf ~01-~I()(­
llftllloiC1, M(l t!W\111111 oflftli of -lit lNII 11\I'OII)IIIIIiltlll -Qfl"(yiOOml 
.....,.,.,,0~ 
ll\lnf­
How Is plasma different from whole blood? 
PIWnl ~ lhf iiQuiO n """'n -.1 cell\ ~• 11 11>1· PQI'If<l APQI'OX..,.IftY 1'1011 OllliO<XII\ PIWY\0 Tnt -.1 eel\ •• -~~..,11om 'IQ.f PIWY\0 11 1r.t ooncr center D'lllliCXt\\ .,_, ~t'\11­
9111-~MldW~Ie<, 
1n011 oflno ,_,.,.. " 1>'01111'11 " " lhfW 1)10' 
1111'1111111 iltf IMIIIO 
liN! PIOillf Wllh vll.o.A 
-01~1('\ 



Notre Dame women's tennis team plays hard, loses to Michigan, 6-2 . 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN 
Sports Writer 
Despite a strong effort, the Notre Dame women's tennis team lost 5-4 to a strong Michigan team at Ann Arbor Saturday, dropping its spr­ing record to 6-2. 
"We played exceptional, we just didn't play the big points," said Irish head coach Michele Gelfman. "I'm really proud of the way all the girls played. They all gave 150 per­cent. 
''We choked on some of the big points. Some of our mental intensi­ty broke down at times, and that's what hurt us. We haven't played Michigan's level of competition in a while. We're starting to play a higher caliber of team, and that's going to help us in the long run." 
Mary Colligan, Michelle Dasso, and lzzy O'Brien took singles wins for the Irish. O'Brien raised her record to 7-1 with a comeback 4-6, 7-5, 6-3 victory over Michigan's Tricia Horn. Colligan now stands at 6-2 after defeating Tina Basle 6­3, 6-4. With her 7-6, 6-7, 6-3 defeat of Tina Mackey, Dasso goes to 5-2 on the year. 
"It was an interesting match," Gelfman said. ''The three of them (Colligan, Dasso, O'Brien) pro­bably played the best matches I've seen them play all year." 
Notre Dame's first flight player, Susie Panther, led off for the Irish with a 6-4, 7-5 loss to Paula Reichert. The number-one doubles team of Panther-Dasso also lost a close match to. Michigan's Reichert­Basle team, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
"That was a key match for us to lose," said Gelfman. "We were tied 5-5 at the break. It was a tough match for us to lose -we fought so hard. It was also an incredibly long match, lasting about six hours." 
The number-two doubles team of Colligan-O'Brien salvaged Notre Dame's final point with a 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 win over Michigan's Mackey­Monica Borcherts team. 
In other singles play, Tammy Schmidt's perfect season record fell to Erin Ashare in sixth-flight com­·.petition. JoAnne Biafore lost in the fifth-flight to Michigan's Bar­
cherts. 
The number-three doubles team 
of freshman Natalie Illig-Biafore 
also fell, 6-2, 6-2. 
The Irish will have a chance to redeem themselves against better competition over spring break in Delray Beach, Fla. In the Lavers International Tournament, they will take on . nationally-ranked Miami (Florida), Denison, Rice, Auburn, and last year's nemesis Tennessee-Chattanooga. Tennessee beat the Irish last year to win the Division II national tennis cham­pionships. 
"We really have our work cut out for us," Gelfman said. "Miami is really an amazing team. They're ranked fourth in the country and their top four flights are ranked in the top 25 individuals." 


Mets center fielder Wilson's injury will slow comeback from adversity 
Allodated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­
New York Mets third base coach 
Bud Harrelson looked into Mookie 
Wilson's puffy, bloodshot right 
eye. 
"It's a good thing you're not a 
boxer," he said. 
"Did I win?" Wilson asked ­then decided he must have: "You should have seen the other guy." 
The other guy was Mets short­stop Rafael Santana, and he looked fine becaue the instrument of violence was a thrown baseball, not a fist. And Wilson definitely was the loser. 
Wilson, the Mets center fielder and offensive catalyst, was struck in the eye by a ball on March 5. There was no actual damage to the eyeball, but the eye socket filled with blood, preventing him from working out. The delay was a ma­jor problem only because Wilson already was coming back from shoulder surgery. 
"Right now, I'm just taking it a day at a time," Wilson says. "I don't want to put a schedule on it, because then you start to rush. Of course it was discouraging because I'm going to lost almost two weeks on my shoulder. Anytime you lose playing time, it's disappointing. 
"But it's just another one of those spring training things," Wilson says. "If it was September, I pro­bably would have shot myself." 
Notre Da•e Avenue Apart•eats NOWIIENDNGFORFAU 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, aU deluxe features 
ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL SUMMER RATES 
(good dealaforSummerSealon) 
Office at 110 ND Ave 134-6647/156-5716 
CaiiAayti• 

SPRING TRAVEL SPECIAL 
to Chicago's O'Hare f1 Midway Airport 

One~ayS2~0 RoundTripS]~O 
Available February 15th through March 1lst. Tickets purchased usable throughout 1986 
INSIDE ( )
INDIANA 800 332•7323 LOCAL (219) 674•6993 
Or call your travel agent 


"Wilson was scheduled to begin throwing for the first time since the eye injury again today. He wanted to start throwing last Thursday, but the team doctors and Manager Dave Johnson told him to hold off for several more days. They didn't want him to jar the eye until most of the blood had drained away. 
The accident happened during a run-~own drill. Wilson was between first and second, and he turned toward second just as San­tana made his throw. 
In addition to the blood in his eye, Wilson also has a scar below the eyebrow from a cut where the ball forced his plastic-lensed sunglasses into his face. The glasses prevented the ball from actually striking the eyebalL 

Forsman gets zero bogeys over 36 holes 
ORLANDO, Fla. Dan 
Forsman played 36 holes without a 
bogey, turned back frustrated Ray 
Floyd and scored a 1-stroke victory 
yesterday in the Hertz Bay Hill 
Classic. 
Forsman acquired the second victory of his four-year PGA Tou~ career with rounds of 67 and 67 in the 36-hole windup that was pro­mpted by two days of rainouts. Forsman, 27, won this event, cut to 54 holes by the series of storms that lashed the Bay Hill Club course, with a three-round total of 202, 11 shots under par. 
The victory was worth $90,000 from the total purse of $500,000 and lifted his earnings for the season to $125,526. 
Floyd, 43, applied the pressure throughout the nine-plus hours of competition but was unable to catch the lanky, unflappable Forsman. 
In the end, it was Floyd's inabili­ty to make a putt down the stretch that denied him his 20th career vic­tory. He missed makeable birdie putts on six consecutive holes, in­cluding a pair from about eight feet. _ 

He wound up with rounds of 69 and 66 and tied for second at 203 with tour sophomore Mike Hulbert. Hulbert, an Orlando resi­dent, played the mornipg round in 69 and then scattered nine birdies across his card in a final round of 64. 
By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
The men's lacrosse team scrim­maged the University of Michigan on Saturday, and the outcome pro­vided Notre Dame head coach Rich O'Leary with a good indication of where the team is headed. 
The Irish defeated the Wolverines, 14-10, and as O'Leary said, his players showed him a lot of what he wanted to see. 
"I was really pleased with the way just about everybody perform­ed," said the sixth year head coach. "We fought back from a 6-3 deficit and at one time scored eight con­secutive goals. Once we got by the first quarter, we maintained a steady intensity level throughout the rest of the game." 
Notre Dame was led by two seniors, midfielder Tim Corrigan and attacker Tom Grote. Corrigan had five goals and co-captain Grote had four goals and three assists. Sophomore Matt Mcquillan had 8 strong game in goal, and O'Lear: 
ND baseball begins stand here today 
Special to Tbe Oblener 
The Notre Dame men's baseball team will begin its home season today in a doubleheader against St. Joseph's starting at I p.m. The Irish are coming off a two-game weekend sweep of DePauw. 
Tim Hutson hit a grand slam in the fifth inning to break a 3-3 tie in the first game of Notre Dame's doubleheader sweep over host DePauw Saturday afternoon. The irish posted an ll-5 triumph in the opener and then routed the Tigers, 11-1, in the second game. 
John Loughran and Tom Guilfoile also hit home runs for the Irish in the opening triumph as Loughran picked up three RBis. 




Relay 
continuedfrompage 12 
even with the runners from Auburn and Arkansas when he passed the stick to VanWie. 
"I was kind of lost in our qualify­ing run on Friday," said Nobles, "and a little overwhelmed by the importance of the event. I wanted 
_. to make up for it and concentrate -~-'better. I really felt relaxed and ready to run. It worked out well." .__ VanWie took off on the third leg 
--· and had both runners right in front of him on the MYRIAD Coliseum track. 
"I wanted to concentrate on the Arkansas guy and make a move with him if he moved," said the junior from Suffern, N.Y. "I ran a hard first quarter and felt good. I lost about five yards to him but got ahead of the Auburn runner." 
Van Wie's exchange to Tyler left the Irish anchor in thV'd, a position he held, while Donovan, who also won the meet's 3,000 meter race, held off Georgetown's Irish. 
Notre Dame did not count on Georgetown's sophomore sensation Mike Huber breaking 1 :49 in the relay. 
The record-breaking effort gives the Irish some healthy momentum as they prepare for the outdoor season. Notre Dame begins its out­door season this weekend at the Willie Williams Invitational in Tuscon, Ariz. 


Lacrosse starts season defeating Wolverines 


~~~oooooo~~~~MK~ 
FRESHMAN: Th• tic:k•t af01:DlDW~---(]l1l5U~l1~ ha• b~••n •ndar••dby: 
Bill "'•l•n, Flalwr Hall Pr••· Tany Lawton, Grac• Hall Patrick Wad•. Carroll Hall Chari•• "'all•, Grac• Hall Bt•cky Cluaa•rath. Badin Hall 
YOU CAl~ ENDORSE US TOOl EFFECTIVE LEADEFiSHifl THAT HASN•T FORGOTTEN THE FUN! 
VOTE··-Shak•-KLETZLY March18th! 
Long Island Bus 

Spring Break 
Round trip $77 One way $50 
Bus leaves March 21 & returns Aprill 
Contact Tom 204Zahm 283·1252 




~~~C3l~-------------------------------------------M_o_n_d_ay_,_M_a_r_c_h_1_7_,_19_8_6_-_P_a_g_e_l_l 
Bloom County Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 

Wllf..THER 'T/5 N08/..E.I<. IN 1HE
1V a»1Me... 
.. OR 1lJ 111KE UP Ali'M5 AGAINST 
a? NOr 10 COMPrtre •.. 
Nflr'()RY MNK .. 10 WffER THE 
A 5€A OF... TRANSISTORS. 

e Student Activities Board Presents•.. 
THAT 15111E ()U65T/ON ... 
Zeto 
AG6H! PAL, CALL 
HIE F.D.A, "'E"'Re SE:Tl:viNG THe4 .~ RXt>! 

Kevin Walsh 


A 
iNtVcRSIT'r'. 0"1 ST >-ATRICKS DA~' GP.E:D-1 51EA"-• 
.;REE..N .'1/LK, AND GREEN 
BANANAS .:D"'E: W !n-1 THE TFRR•TDRY. 
ACROSS 1 Birch 6 Anklebones 
10 Fish 14 Sinister Peter 15 Black 16 Nimbus 17 Angle 18 Zoo 20 Grain 21 Entranced 23 Stripling 24 Collision 
result 25 Penetrates 29 Warm over 32 Mint expenae 33 Solar-lunar 
relatlonahip 34 Disable• 35 Noncom 36 Adriatic wind 37 Seoul's land 38-time 
(never) 39 Select 40 Plied with <>t986 Tribune Med1a Services. Inc. 
medicine All Rtghts Reserved 41 Gaucho weapons 42 Kept 44 Bridge term 7 Encourage 45 Introduction In crime 
of new words 8 Chaney of 46 Henchman films 47 Possessed 9 Actress Balin 48 Tiny Insect 10 Clips 49 Retrain start 11 Brian Keith 52 Changeable one TV role 56 "The Lady-" 12 Actress 58 Villain's MacGraw 
adversary 13 Deer 59 Omnium-19 "Cagney and gatherum Lacey" star 60 Famous 22 Uninvited pest battleship 24 Ten: pref. 61 Buchwald and 25 Snooped 
Carney 26 "-Camera" 62 Lilliputian 27 Holiday cheer 63 Incite 28 Bristly 
29 Revived 40 Semiconductor 50 Gambling city 
DOWN 30 Epic poem 41 Type of story 51 Yemen seaport 1 Too 31 Wagner's TV 43 Cottonwood 52 Tea 2 Falana of song series trees 53 "Leave -to 3 Doggone! 32 Uncovered 44 Inlet Heaven" 4 Sea bird 34 Saunter 46 Harass 54 Fate 5 Fall back 37 King-48 Enter 55 Yale student 6 Entice 38 Tops 49 Shipshape 57 Inferior mount 
Student Govt. & Student Activities Board Present .•• 
Monday, March 17 
Munchies provided 2-4:45 and 6:45-JOpm by University Food Services 
2-4:00pm ~~----­4-7:00 pm -$i· ~ The Law (Band) 7:00pm 0>l"'­


"Mr. Bailey? There's a gentleman here who claims an ancestor of yours once defiled his crypt, and now you're the last remaining Bailey and ... oh, something about a curse. Should I send him In?" 
Campus 
*2 p.m. -Munchies, St. patrick's Day Mun­chies provided by University Food Services, Stepan Center *2 p.m. -Irish Singers, John Kennedy and friends, Stepan Center, Sponsored by SAB 
*4 p.m. -Rock Band, The Law, Stepan Center, Sponsored by SAB *4:20 p.m. -presentation, Career Oppor-

Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame At South Dining Hall: Steak Dinner Irish Favorites At Stepan Center: Old Fashioned St. Patrick's Day Celebration 

"' 
tunities for Economics and Foreign Language Majors, Paul Reynolds, Notre Dame, Room 105A O'Shaughnessy, Sponsored by Career and Placement Services *7 p.m.-Musical Entertainment, Notre Dame Glee Club and Irish Dancers, Stepan Center, Sponsored by SAB *7:30p.m.-Meeting, RASTA, Little Theatre, LaFortune 

Efb ., 


FIREWORKS ·~ 
10:00 pm Stepan Center 
Saint Mary's Baked Ham Beef & Vegetable Stir Fry French Bread Pizza Sweet & Sour Pork 
More people •• have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles. 
We are winning. 
• 

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 

Monday, March l 7, 1986-page l2


S~orts 
UALR dashes Irish dreams of making Final Four, 90-83 
By JEFF BLUMB Springer, a native of Fort Wayne, Ind., the Sports Editor foursome scored all but two of UALR's points in the game. 
MINNEAPOLIS -Whatever the outcome, "No matter what we did defensively, they it would be the end for four seniors. If Notre hit the clutch shots," said Irish coach Digger Dame lost, the college careers of Ken Phelps, whose 15th Notre Dame team finish­Barlow, Tim Kempton, Jim Dolan and ed the season at 23-6. "They didn Joseph Price would come to a close. And if didn't force many shots and we couldn't stop Arkansas-Little Rock lost, the same would them defensively. They were just determined be true for Myron Jackson, Pete Myers, to win the game. Michael Clarke and Ken Worthy. 
"They shot a lot of shots we would nor­When all was said and done late Friday mally give people. There wasn't much Inight, the upstarts from UALR had upset the would change. It was just one of those nights heavily-favored Irish, 90-83, in the first­where you come out and the other team doesround of the NCAA tournament, and it was everything right. They played about as wellthe four seniors from Notre Dame who were as you could play. 
faced with the realization that they had reached the end of the line. "For them it's a great moment, and we 
The Trojans of UALR had talked tough wish them well the rest of the tournament." the day before playing the Irish, and then Jackson got the ball rolling for UALR in backed that talk up Friday by playing a near­the first half, hitting for 16 points, including ly flawless game to get by Notre Dame and a buzzer-beater from the corner to send the move into the second round against North Trojans into the locker room up one at the Carolina State yesterday. half, 40-39. "Jackson did a lot early to get 
Arkansas-Little Rock shot 79 percent their confidence going," Phelps said. "Once from the field in the second half and had a 62 they got that momentum going, it was hard percent mark for the game, 16 percentage to get them out of it." points more than its average. Notre Dame came out in the second half 
Normally a 64-percent free throw shooting and outscored the Trojans 8-3 to grab a 47­team, UALR shot 75 percent Friday. 43 advantage. Barlow drove the left baseline 
The battle on the boards between the na­for two, he and Dolan each rebounded tion's top two rebounding teams ended in a misses by David Rivers for four more, and 31-31 deadlock. then Rivers fed Kempton underneath for two 
Myers scored 29 points, Clarke 27 and more. Jackson 22 to key the UALR victory. Added to the 10 of Trojan freshman Paul 
The Notre Dame two-mile relay of Jim Tyler, .. NCAA indoor track championships with the sixth Jeff Van Wie, Robert Nobles and John McNelis fastest time ever recorded/or the event in 7:21.11 (from left to right) shown here placed third at the this past weekend. 

·­

Notre Dame seniors worked to restore program 
MINNEAPOLIS -I can remember distinctly the first time I ever saw Notre Dame's four senior basketball players, Ken Barlow, Tim Kempton, Jim Dolan and Joseph Price. They were together then, walking to one of the many freshman orientation activities at the ACC, as was I. 
Nearly four years have passed since that day, and the bond between the four has grown with all that they have accomplished. Each had his own trials and tribulations, but each overcame and found his respective role. 
The four arrived at Notre Dame as the Irish were com­ing off a 10-17 season. As a group, they helped Notre Dame rebound from that disastrous year and rise to basketball respectibility again. 
They had worked so hard and come so far to get where they were on Friday, in the NCAA tournament with a legitimate shot to win it all. That's what made Friday's loss to the upstarts from Arkansas-Little Rock so tough to swallow. In 40 short minutes, four years of sweat and hard work seemed to go down the drain. 
But it really did not. Because of the efforts of these seniors, the Notre Dame program is back to where it was in the mid-1970s. They will not reap many of the benefits of their work, but, hopefully, they will realize the impact they had at Notre Dame and be able to take satisfaction in that. 


Jeff Blumb 
sports Editor 
Hut why did Notre Dame lose? Were the Irish out­coached? No. Did they choke? No. Were they outhustl­ed? No. Were they beaten by a team that wanted it more? Probably. 
Arkansas-Little Rock gets none of the exposure that Notre Dame does. Irish coach Digger Phelps often speaks of "Notre Dame moments." While the Irish get several opportunities each year to have one of these moments, Arkansas-Little Rock rarely gets the same chance. 
Once I saw the look of joy of the faces of UALR seniors Myron Jackson, Pete Myers and Michael Clarke, losing to them did not seem quite as bad as it had only moments earlier. For these guys, beating Notre Dame was the biggest thrill they had ever experienced. It was their moment, and one could not help but feel happy for them. 
Like the four Notre Dame seniors, they, too, had put in long hours of practice, working for that one day when it all would pay off. In many ways, they were Jess tor­tunate along the way. They do not have the same quality education to fall back on that Notre Dame seniors have. They didn't even have a band or cheerleaders along to help thc~m celebrate the victory. 

I could find some solace in the fact that Notre Dame had lost to a Cinderella team like UALR, while it would have been much harder to take if the Irish had been beaten by Iowa or North Carolina State in the first round. 
Maybe I've just been hardened to losing by watching Gerry Faust coach the football team for four years. Along with most of the student body, I thought the basketball team would somehow alleviate all the frustra­tion fellt in watching the football team. When it was ap­parent that the end was near and that would not happen, it really wasn't so bad. It wasn't something I liked, but I've been down this road before and it was nothing I couldn't handle. 
I'm glad that I had the chance to shake the hands of Jackson, Myers and Clarke after the game and wish them luck the rest of the way. While it would have made me much happier to have been shaking the hands of Notre Dame':; seniors, the UALR players certainly deserved the credit. At the same time, Notre Dame's seniors deserve no less homage for all that they have done. 
By ED JORDANICH 
Sports Writer 
John McNelis, Robert Nobles, Jeff Van Wie and Jim Tyler ran their way into the record books Saturday at the NCAA Indoor Championships in Oklahoma City. The Irish two-mile relay team not only broke the Notre Dame record by more than four seconds, but its third place finishing time of 7:21.11 was one of the six best clockings of all time. 
The race was one of the finals' most exciting events and it made Irish coach Joe Piane very happy. 
"This is really a great ac­complishment for these guys," said Piane. "They ran their best race in the NCAA finals, and it was one of the best two-mile relays ever. They are the third-ranked relay team in the nation, and all four, by virtue of their finish, are All-Americans. They have a lot to be proud of." 
Arkansas won the event with a new collegiate record of 7:20.72, while Georgetown's 7:20.78 was se­cond. Razorback anchorman and native Irishman Paul Donovan edg­ed the Hoya's Miles Irish, and Tyler rounded out an "Irish" sweep of sorts by finishing .39 behind Donovan. 
McNelis got the Irish off to an excellent start and handed the baton to Nobles after a I :52.3 beginning leg. Nobles, a junior, ran his turn in 1 :50 and was almost 
see RELAY, page 10 






