Bookstore names -page 6 

VOL. XX, NO. 135 TUESDAY, APRIL 29, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

IU.S.S.R. reactor damaged; 

I he Observer /Drew Sandler
Java break 
RASTA President Catherine Ann Reynolds enjoys some coffee at the RASTA Java last night in the Center for Social Concerns. Poetry readings and folk songs also were featured at the fund­raising event, which was sponsored as part of RASTA week on campus. 


radiation reaches Sweden 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The Soviet Union said yesterday that a nuclear acci­dent damaged an atomic reactor at the Chernobyl power plant in the Ukraine, and Sweden reported radiation north of Stockholm, more than 750 miles away. 
The official Soviet news agency Tass said people affected were be­ing aided, but did not say whether there were injuries or deaths, when the accident occurred, nor the exact location of the plant. 
Tass said it was the first nuclear accident in the Soviet Union and a government commission was ap­pointed, an indication that it was serious. 
Lars Erik de Geer of Sweden's Defense Research Agency said, "it must have been a relatively big acci­dent, since we have received such high levels of radiation from so far away." 
Finlan reported picking up in­creased radiation Sunday night, but neither it nor Sweden said the levels were dangerous. Denmark also was recording increased levels, in­dicating radiation had blown from the Ukraine over much of Scan­dinavia without warning. 
Birgitta Dahl, Sweden's energy minister, said the Soviets were ask­ed for an extensive report and add­ed, "they -should immediately have warned us." 
She said initial inquiries drew the response that Soviet officials were not aware of a radiation leak, but she said the quesions probably led 

Asbestos not an immediate threat in Fisher, ND health director says 
By JIM RILEY 
Copy Editor 
There is no immediate danger because of the asbestos in Fisher Hall, according to Robert Zerr, director of environmental health and safety for Notre Dame. 
Zerr said some of the ragged in­sulation on pipes in the Fisher base­ment was asbestos while other ex­posed portions were of an undeter­mined cardboard substance. 
He said the substance must be analyzed before he can determine if asbestos is present. 
Zerr also set up a device to measure the asbestos content of the air in the Fisher pool room, but the results will not be available for 10 to 14 days. 
The tested room has one of the largest amounts of exposed pipe in­sulation in the basement of the hall, according to Fisher residents sophomore Greg Gibbons and junior Shawn Black. 
"Anytime you break that• canvas encasement (on the pipes), the asbestos can become flyable," said Zerr. 
Noting the broken areas of the canvas, Zerr said, "As it is now, there are very few fibers being released." 
The loose insulation would have 
to be bumped or shaken for this 
asbestos to become flyable, accor­
ding to Zerr. 
People normally develop medical problems from asbestos exposure only after inhaling flyable asbestos daily for 20 to 30 years, according toZerr. 
He said any exposure Fisher residents may have received would not be dangerous. 
Though there is no immediate danger, asbestos is still a potential cancer-causing agent, according to Zerr. "We've got the means to fix it, so why present you with a poten­tial hazard?" said Zerr. 
Some of the insulation was loose enough that Zerr said it might as well be removed because it was not serving any purpose. 
Zerr said he would put through the work orders necessary to take care of the situation. 
The work will probably not be done until summer because the situation is not dangerous and the semester is almost over, said Zerr. He added that he does not expect the results of the air sample test in Fisher to show any more than the usual background level of asbestos. 
Zerr also said he would take a sample of the undetermined card­
board material that is exposed on many of the pipes. During spring break, the insulation on the pipes in room 5 was changed from an asbestos material to a non­asbestos substance, according to Black, a resident of room 5. Black said the condition of the pipes in his room before the asbestos was replaced was much better than the condition of the pipes in the hallways and common rooms of the basement. When asked why the asbestos was removed from only one of the rooms, Director of the Physical Plant Donald Dedrick said room 5 was the room where a problem ex­isted and that treating only one room was similar to making usual repairs to the one room that needs them. 
Part of the reason Notre Dame does not always rush to remove the asbestos is that removal can make the situation worse if not done carefully, said Zerr. The asbestos has to be wetted down and contain­ed so fibers do not escape and cause high asbestos levels in the air. 
Zerr said that dealing with asbestos is a problem facing schools all over the United States. 
Dedrick said he is treating asbestos removal as a long-term problem. 
to the unusual Soviet confirmation 
of the accident. 
''We must demand higher safety standards in the Soviet Union," she said,· and Sweden may insist that the Soviet civil nuclear program be overseen by the International Atomic Energy Agency, a U.N. agency. 
White House spokesman Edward Djerejian said, "it must be very serious if the Soviets talk about it." 
Soviet media seldom report natural disasters or accidents unless InJuries and damage are widespread. 
The first, brief Tass announce­ment did not give details beyond saying, "Measures are being under­taken to eliminate the consequences of the accident. Aid is being given to those affected." 
A subsequent Tass report called it the first such accident in the Soviet Union, "although in other countries similar incidents have oc­curred more than once." 
Tass mentioned the 1979 acci­dent at Three Mile Island in Penn­sylvania, the worst accident at a 
U.S. commercial nuclear plant. No deaths resulted there. 
In Washington, Jim McKenzie of the Union of Concerned Scientists, an anti-nuclear group, said the in­formation he had "indicates pro­bably a core meltdown." 
McKenzie said he drew the con­clusion from being told by Swedish reporters that radioactive iodine and cesium were present and radiating at five to 10 times the 
natural levels. "There must have 
been quite a release of radioactivi­
ty," he said. 
Asked about the core meltdown 
statement, Frank Graham, vice 
president of the Atomic Industrial 
Forum for international affairs, 
said, "We don't know enough to 
say." 

Bo Homquist, a senior regional Swedish government official responsible for the Forsmark nuclear power plant north of Stockholm, which detected the radiation, told The Associated Press, "the source of the leak is somewhere to the east of us and to the east of Finland, if you know what I mean." 
In New York, Eugene Gant­zhorn, an analyst at the office of the Atomic Industrial Forum, a 

U.S. industry group of utilities and suppliers, said the Chernobyl plant is located at a new town called Pripyat near Chernobyl. 
The plant consists of four l ,000­megawatt reactors of identical design constructed in 1977, 1978, 1981, and 1983. He said it is a light­water cooled, graphite-moderated design not used in the United States. 
Gantzhorn said it was not known if any of the four Soviet reactors had a containment structure like the steel and concrete surrounding key components of all U.S. plants, including the reactor. 
He said the Atomic Industrial Forum had no idea what happened at the Soviet reactor. 

Student Senate fund proposed for budget 
By LAURA S. GRONEK 
StoffReporter 
The possibility of establishing a fund for the Student Senate in next year's budget and a propos­ed increase in student activity fees were discussed at" last night's senate meeting. 
"This is an opportunity to in­crease the role of the senate through tighter control of spen­ding and budgeting," said Mike Switek, student body president. 
The fund must be approved by Father David Tyson, vice president of student affairs, before it can be included in the new budget. 
Such a fund "would give Stu­dent Senate a bigger say in what happens on campus, socially and otherwise" said Brian Holst, District I senator. "Whoever has the most money has the most control," he said. 
Holst said he hoped some recognition of the senate as a powerful body could be evoked through such a measure. 
No specific plans for what the senate would do with the fund were discussed at the meeting. 
Additionally, a proposal may be brought before the Board of Trustees May 8 to increase the amount of the student activities fee by $15 from the current $35 charge, said Student Body Treasurer Becca Cussen. 
But she said the exact amount 
of the increase to be proposed 
has not yet been finalized. 
A separate $5 fee for the ex­pansion of WVFI-AM, the student-run radio station, may also be included in the senate proposal, said Cussen. 
Cussen said the proposal may plaq to assess the $5 fee for three years. 
The senate must await the outcome of the Board of Trustees meeting before they know the exact amount of funds to allocate to student govern­ment, the Student Activities Board, clubs, halls and classes, according to Holst. 
A problem arises because the results of the budget proposal will not appear until after finals, when students have already gone home for the summer, said Holst. The senate can wait until August to approve the budget, but Notre Dame's official deadline for budget allocations is July I. 
Switek said he plans to meet with Tyson to discuss the budget. 

The Observer Tuesday, Apri129, 1986 -page 2 



In Brief 

Even Huck Finn could love a school without tests, report cards or homework assignments~ But then, the students at remote Mountain School in Boonville, Calif., are a teacher's dream. Two "graduates" of David and Micki Colfax's home-based school for their four sons have won scholarships to Harvard University. This past weekend, Drew Colfax, 18, decided to accept an offer from Harvard and turned down those from Yale, Princeton, Amherst and Haverford, he said Sunday. 
Drew will join his 21-year old brother, Grant, an honors pre­med student at Harvard. Drew, an avid stargazer, says he has read more than 300 books on astronomy. He writes a weekly astronomy column for the local newspaper ai].d built his won telescope from scratch, as well as an observatory to put it in. He ground the mir­ror by hand to an accuracy 'of a millionth of an inch. All four boys have been virtually self-educated, Mrs. Colfax said in an interview between goat-keeping chores at their ranch. -AP 
Marcos on his knees? The United States is stressing its support for the fledgling Philippines government of President Corazon Aquino following President Reagan's courtesy call to Ferdinand Marcos in which the deposed leader reportedly pleaded for help in getting his old job back. When Reagan, inHonolulu for a rest stop on his way to the Far East, telephoned the exiled Mar­cos to pass along personal good wishes, Marcos indicated he would like Reagan's support fo,r a return to power, a senior U.S. official said. The source said Reagan "said nothing to encourage him." The conversation, described as an emotional talk, particularly for Marcos and his wife, Imelda, who spoke with Mrs. Reagan when the men had finished, occurrred shortly after Reagan arrived Saturday. After Reagan's plan to call Marcos was disclosed, the White House announced a new $150 million aid program for the Phillippines, and Reagan telephoned Mrs. Aquino and invited her to visity the United States, perhaps in the fall. -AP 
Of Interest 

The Transfer Orientation Committee will have a meeting in the Little Theater in LaFortune tonight at 7:30. The meeting is open to anyone interested in helping next year's transfers. -The Observer 
The French Club will hold elections at a meeting tonight at 8 in LaFortune's Little Theater.-The Observer 
The Entrepreneur Society will have a meeting tonight at 7 in Room 124 of Hayes-Healy Center. All interested in participating next year should attend. -The Observer 
Shakespeare Club officer elections will take place tonight at 7 in the Memorial Library auditorium lounge. All students are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Annual spring awards ,will be held by Air Force ROTC Detachment 225 tomorrow at 4:30 p.m. in the Memorial Library auditorium. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted at the Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until 3 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. ­

Weather 


Hey, you're not fooling anyone with this studying thing. We all know you don't care about your grades, so get outside and bag some rays. It will be mostly sunny today, with a high near 70. Mostly clear tonight with a low of 45. Partly sunny and warmer tomorrow with a high in the middle 70s. -AP 
We are unfortunately still without a 

typesetter, the machine which nor­mally sets copy from our computer system. This means we have to type out the entire paper by hand, which may result in a few errors getting through. We are working to correct the problem as soon as possible. 
Please bear with us. 

The OhMrver ( l 'SPS ~99 l-~000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods.lbe Oi>Krver is published by the students ofthe l 'niversil\· of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchasc.-d for J30 pe~ year ( JlO per semester) by writing The Ot>Krver, P.O. Box Q. Notrt" Dame. Indiana 
~6~~6. 

The Ot.Krver is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction righ" are 
r~srrvrd. 


Mud, cow chips, slam dunks: Who had time for books? 
All right, what's going on here? Just who decided to schedule spring during the school year? And what's worse, who decided to schedule An Tostal during the spring? It just doesn't make sense. 
Don't look at me, Mom and Dad, it's not my fault. I tried to do my homework but people kept making me have fun. 
I guess it all started last Monday afternoon. I was just sitting in my room listening to The Doors like every college freshman is supposed to do after a rough logic class, when a friend of mine strolled in. "You'd better get all of your studying done tonight," he said. "This is An Tostal week and you're not going to want to be doing work during that." 
C'mon. You've got to be kidding me. I can't even pronounce An Tostal, much less figure out what it's supposed to mean. Why would I want to do the week's homework in advance when it can easily be put off 'til the last minute? That's what college is all about. 
So I just took it easy for the rest of the evening while everyone else was busy solving problems and writing papers. What's the rush, I thought. 
Tuesday came and I was on my way to my after­noon class in O'Shaughnessy, trying to avoid getting hit by a student who came flying out of a door that opens backwards (a brilliant concept), when the same friend stopped me. "Let's go have some pizza out on the quad," he suggested. "You've only got one more class and you can blow it off." 
All right, why not? I am pretty hungry and there might even be some nice-looking girls out there. I can always catch up on the notes I missed tomorrow. 
At 2 p.m. on Wednesday I had quite a decision to make. What would it be, French class or the slam dunk contest? O.K., maybe it wasn't so tough. How often do you get to see Jeff Peters beat out David Rivers? Yes, I was starting to get the idea. This was not going to be just anotlier ordinary week. 
I think the idea of studying on Thursday popped in­to my mind for a brief moment. But that's all it was ­an idea. I didn't throw baseballs at the dunking booth just because I wanted to see people drown. And it cer­tainly wasn't the quality of competition that compell­ed me to watch the jello wrestling. What brought me out to these events, along with the Mr. Campus com­petition which I thought I had an outside shot at winn­ing, was the location. You can't beat an afternoon at Saint Mary's. 
By Friday any ideas of homework had disappeared completely. This was actually fun. What kind of university is this anyway? Having fun when final ex­ams are looming in the not-too-distant future? But who was I to complain? 
Marty Strasen 
Asst. Sports Editor 


There were licorice-eating contests and people were being pelted with pies in South Quad. Then, all of a sudden, people started throwing cow chips around. Now where did classes have any place in all of this? 
I'm sure there was fun to be had on Saturday morn­ing as well. I don't know. I can't remember seeing a Saturday morning in a while. But I'm sure a lot of people will not soon forget Saturday afternoon. That was when a group of so-called mature young college students jumped around in the mud and hit each other with pillows. A few scratched knees and a broken bone here and there couldn't even spoil that. 
And just when you thought you could not possibly invest another ounce of energy into good times at Notre Dame, An Tostal refused to slow down even as it came to a close. I rolled out of bed on Sunday at about 2:30p.m. (I must have received a late phone call or something the night before), and made it out to Stepan just in time to see Jim Dolan and Lee's BBQ Roundhouse win the Bookstore Basketball Cham­pionship. Whew, it was finally over. 
But don't let me sound pessimistic. 
An Tostal exceeded all my expectations. It's good to know that the students at Notre Dame know how to have fun, even with those dreaded finals inching haun­tingly closer. After all, there is much more to school than sitting in a classroom taking notes and answering questions. 
No one ever said you can't have fun while you learn. 

Thanks toyou... 

forALLOFUS Unlliadway


it works... 




GEOGRAPHICAL CLUBS 
Ifyou are providing a BAGGAGE TRUCKfor students from your area, you MUST REGISTER with the Student Activities Office by FRIDAY, MAY 2. 


The Department of Communications and Theater at St Mary's presents a ND/SMC Theater production of 
choreographed by 


Jeron ?obbins 
Musical Score composed by Leonard Berstein 


Lyrics by Stephen Sondheim 
Book by Arthur Laurents May 1,2,3, and 15,16,17, at 8:10p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium at St. Mary's College For information call the box Office at 284-4626 
The Observer Tuesday, April29, 1986-page 3 


'Theology Aid' aim of new director 
ND senior robbed 
By PAM SMITH Leveille said McCabe's outgoing tian Initiation of Adults program is News Staff personality, deep personal faith "basically for people who want to 

by armed intruder 
and commitment were also reasons become Catholics, whether they are 
To address the needs of students lacking in religious education, Sister Pat McCabe, C.S.C., has been appointed directed of religious education for Notre Dame's Office of University Ministry. 
"Many students at Notre Dame have not attended Catholic high schools or have received poor religious education. This is not the type of problem that can be ad­dressed in a theology class," said McCabe. 
McCabe is presently vocation director for the Holy Cross Sisters. She will assume her new office in August. 
The new position was created in response to a growing need for religious education at Notre Dame, according to Father Andre Leveille. 
"More and more students are coming to us for basic religious education, catechu mal education," said Leveille. 
McCabe was chosen for the job primarily because of her ex­perience, Leveille said. "We wanted someone with parish ex­perience," he said. 
for her selection. McCabe said she is looking for­ward to beginning her job. She 

Sister Pat McCabe 
said she will have the freedom to define many of her responsibilities because the office is new. 
During her first year, McCabe will deal mainly with the Office of University Ministry's confirmation program, its Rite of Christian In­itiation of Adults program and the Share Your Faith lecture series Leveille said. 
McCabe said the Rite of Chris-coming from a different faith or no faith." 

She said the initiation combines baptism, first communion and con­firmation. 
McCabe said the Share Your Faith lecture series will address faith issues such as prayer and morality and incorporate surveys of the student opinion on the topic to bP discussed. 
"We hope to expand the program in future years, maybe by develop­ing a drug counseling service with the Center for Social Concerns," McCabe added. 
"This first year I will spend learn­ing the climate at Notre Dame, get­ting the lay of the land," she said. 
McCabe said she is most looking forward to contact with people, especially students. 
She said she will be directly in­volved in the education process, not just in administrative decisions. 
"When someone is confirmed, for example, the whole community gets involved. It's not just the con­firmant, but his sponsor, and everyone who supports him," she said. 
By MARK PANKOWSKI 
News Editor. 

A Notre Dame senior was robb­ed early Sunday morning in his house on East Navarre Street by one armed man and his ac­complice. 
Joseph Donnelly, 21, said he was robbed of a video cassette recorder, a color television set and a portable radio and tape player. He estimated the equip­ment's total value at $700. 
Donnelly said the South Bend Police are still investigating the crime. The detective in charge of the case could not be reached for comment yesterday afternoon. 
Donnelly said he was sleeping on the living room couch when he was awakened at approximately 6 
a.m. by two men who apparently entered through an unlocked door. 
Donnelly said he sat up and demanded to know what the two were doing. Donnelly said he then 

Ifnoonewillpublish yourpaper,doityourself If those Philistines who Print your next paper with the by giving you and your depart­call themselves"editors"cat1t help of a Macintosh™ personal ment near typeset quality text see the brilliance of your latest computer and one of our and graphics. Allowing you to work. maybe the problem is in LaserWriter™ printers. generate papers, publications, ( the presentation. LaserWriter will vastly newsletters, Our solution? improve the look of your work dissertations .. f. ..and even exams that ~~ no one will able toPerspectives on higher education in the 23rd Century be by to 31 Macintosh personal It's priced specially colleges and universities. it comes ready to go with variety of built-in type fonts, and sizes. And the ability to make your work more outstanding than.ever. By Steve Kessler, Ph.D. Associate Professor Education May 26, 1986 ·~, ~ ~f.:_'_.::..:::......---.Lll... ! ~~.. •.wa£1) New Low Pricing on Macintosh 512K/Macintosh Plus Uparades Now Available University of Notre dame faculty, staff anet students can Duy Macintosh eoomputers at discounted prices from the Notre Dame CQmputer Store. For further lnformatlon,lnqulre at Computing Center, rm.25, 9·5, m·f. Phone:239·7477  


lept up and went toward the in­truders, coming within two or three feet of them. 
Donnelly said he was stopped, however, when one of the men reached inside his coat and drew out a small hand revolver. Don­nelly then backed up, he said. 
When the armed man walked toward the door, Donnelly again 
· approached him from behind, he said. The intruder then turned and saw Donnelly, pointed the revolver at him and told Donnelly he wasn't kidding. The armed man then ordered Donnelly to place his hands on his head and lay on the couch. Don­nelly said he was uncertain whether the other robber was armed or what he was doing dur­ing this time. 
After the robbers took the video cassette recorder, the TV and the radio and tape player, they fled in a mid-1960s white Chevrolet or Cadillac, Donnelly said. 
UMOC tally: 
'Flanagan 
the ugliest' 
The final results of this year's Ugly Man On Campus competi­tion have been announced. The money raised from the contest, more than $1, 100, will be donated to the Teenage Runaway Shelter in South Bend. 
One-hundred and sixty people received "votes," or pennies donated in their names. Here is a list of those receiving 100 or more votes. 
Dave Flanagan 39,001 Chris "Wally" Wohltmann 19,437 MJkeSpert 15,437 NEWG 
6,301 Sl11ive ItSbaron "The Cow" Dow 
~ 

Steve Gibbs 1,435 Bob Fltzaerald tU Laurene Powen 641 ErkMurray 519 Jim N.F. Foley 461 HaryMealy 445 Merwyn Tllomu Stuart McDoukl Jl'7 
-

Dua• Webster 315 David Nlllja RonNye 111 
-

Kate "The Beast" Mullaaey lOO Dave Fltzaerald lOO Christa Slnpetoa lOO Matt "Happy" Holloway 195 "Fat" Pat Creavea 165 Loa Huffman 116 John "The Kqmaa" Konzelmaa 115 Jim "Boss" Braun 100 Joe Scbwealaaer 100 Chris "I Really Try But 
1Really Can't" Cooke 100 o.-a Flaaapa 100 Jolla Yuc:ka 100 Jim Gallaaber 100 Doctor Klebbll 100 Ray Hartzell 100 JeffSkay 100 
Sharon Ferc:o 100 

r 
f 





~i~~~_()__i_ll___t_________________T_u_esd-ay-,A-pr-il2-9,_19-86~p-age_4 
Democrats support 'tax reform' only by name 
The tax reform issue which has been bat­ted around the nation's capital for the past year has managed to create a great deal of confusion as to the actual orientation of Republicans and Democrats on the issue. 

Tony Lanza 
guest column 
Currently, the tax reform legislation, which would undoubtedly have met defeat in the House Rules committee had the Reagan administration not initiated an intensive lob­bying campaign, is confronting stiff opposi-· tion in the Senate. This development has prompted many observers to conclude that Senate Republicans are opposed to tax reform -a conclusion which ostensibly presents an interesting paradox in light of re­cent Republican support for Reagan's tax reform initiative. 
Actually, with a little knowledge of the tax reform legislation in question, this paradox can rather easily be eradicated: Republican senators are in support of tax reform; however, they are not in support of the col­lection of superfluous ambiguities and inequit­able complexities which Dan Rostenknowski (Chairman of the Ways and Means Commit­tee) has forced through the House and into the Senate in his quest to fill the current Speaker of the House's soon-to-be-vacated position. The tax reform legislation which now confronts Republican senators is a sad mutilation of the purified concept which the Reagan administration unveiled approx­imately a year ago. 
The Treasury's original tax reform pro­posal (commonly referred to as (reasury 1) proved to be a sincere endeavor to create a national taxation policy which effectively en­compasses the three goals of taxation which are so thoroughly Jacking in our current system: growth, simplicity and equitability. 
Treasury 1 broadened the tax base by eliminating numerous deductions and credits (including state and local tax deductions and several business loopholes), thus effectively reducing marginal tax rates while maintain­ing revenue neutrality. The proposal also de­polarized effective and marginal tax rates, creating more equitable tax incidence (tax burden) and Jess hypocritical nominal tax rates. Treasury 1 was an example of a truly purified tax reform proposal, one embracing the concepts of tax reform which Senate Republicans have proved willing to endorse. 
However, in analyzing the proposal which Rostenknowski's Ways and Means Commit­tee submitted to the House, one is strained to uncover any significant similarities other than the deceptive categorization of "tax reform." Growth, simplicity and equitabili­ty have been abandoned in the face of private interests, constituent pressures and PAC contributions. 
To make the claim that Senate Republicans -and the Republican Party in general -are serving as obstacles to tax reform is to embrace a fallacy. The Reagan administration in particular should be com­mended for reviving a seemingly lifeless tax reform issue in the House Rules Committee in December, affording the Senate an oppor­tunity to produce satisfactory tax legislation. 
In addition, Senate Republicans must be commended for their willingness to oppose ­notwithstanding upcoming Senatorial elec­tions -a bill which has been deceptively pro­pagated as "tax reform." In the final analysis, any effort in the Senate to reject Rostenknowski's tainted proposal is essen­tially an effort to revive a genuine tax reform initiative. 

Tony Lanza is a junior political science ma­jor at Notre Dame. 


Appearances aside, nation still liberal-minded 
Throughout the 1984 election, Walter Monqale warned thaf while voters like Ronald Reagan personally, they overwhelm­ingly reject his policies. He was not too far 'from the truth, according to Thomas Ferguson and Joel Rogers in the May issue of the Atlantic. Is America getting more con­servative? 
Ken Kollman 
no easy solutions 

Bearing both extensive and impressive polling data, Ferguson and Rogers argue against the currently popular notion that "a majority of the public has reached a stable, well-informed consensus on the desirability of right, or center-right policies." They claim that, contrary to press reports, despite two major Republican victories in 1980 and 1984, the shift in voter alignment is largely imaginary, and that Americans still by and large support New Deal and liberal policies. It is a myth, they maintain, that American public opinion is shifting to the right. In fact, with the exception of stiffer penalties for criminals, and a short-lived support for increased military spending, on nearly every primary issue, majority public opinion op­poses Reagan policies. 
Support for an upsurge in domestic spen­ding actually increased in the period between 1978 and 1983, as did disapproval of the Reagan administration's attempts to disman­tle affirmative action programs, cut back on environmental protectiOn, and destroy feminist legislation. 

Moreover, the polls indicate overwhelm­ing support for a better attempt at amiable relations with the Soviet Union than Reagan has previously done and a large majority of those polled disagree with Reagan's handling of the Middle East, El Salvador, and Nicaragua. In 1983, 51 percent of Americans polled felt that Reagan's military buildup had gone "too far," and support for increas­ed military spending dropped sharply after a peak in 1981 to lower than 20 percent ap­proval. 
One of the most surprising statistics was Reagan's popularity compared to other post­World War II presidents. Some in the press have reported Reagan to be the most popular 


Doonesbury 
president since the war, but Gallup pQlls in­dicate otherwise. His average approval rating -which measures satisfaction with job performance -has been 50 percent, higher than Carter's 47 percent, but lower than Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon. Historical comparisons rate Reagan significantly behind other presidents at cer­tain times, and only Nixons's 24 percent disapproval rating right before resigning in disgrace is lower than Reagan's low point of 35 percent in January 1983. Accordingly, his ratings for personal appeal rank far higher than job performance. 
If Reagan and his policies are not terribly popular, what accounts for two landslide victories in 1980 and 1984? The answer, ac­cording to Ferguson and Rogers, is the economy. 
The statistics supporting the idea that Reagan's popular support runs directly in ac­cordance with the financial health of the country are certainly impressive. One graph in the article shows exact polarity between Reagan's popularity and the national jobless rate. When unemployment was at its highest the president's approval rating stood at its lowest, and vice versa. 
In fact, the correlation between change in per capita income and the success of the in­cumbent presidential candidate stands remarkably consistent. Carter, for instance, happened upon a recession right before the 1980 election, while Reagan weathered a recession in 1981 and 1982, then enjoyed an economic boom immediately prior to the 1984 election. 
Assumptions like these, however, fail to take into account the many complex factors involved in voter preference. For example, the Iranian hostage crisis played a significant role in the Carter defeat, and it is difficult to look past the new crop of strong Republican leaders when considering recent Reagan vic­tories. But the article maintains, and with substantial statistical backing, that American public opinion is not shifting to the right. It concludes that the Democratic party should not follow the advice of some of its leaders and other political commen­tators to move toward centrist-right policies. It would then abandon, the authors argue, the true opinion of American voters. 
As for our own community, are students growing more conservative? It is true that conservative student groups have experienc­ed a rise in membership, and the Republican party enrolled a large number of young voters prior to the 1984 election. But young people voted disproportionately Republican in the 1920s right before the big Democratic upsurge during the New Deal, and it is no secret that party loyalty among American voters-is at its all-time lowest and continuing in that direction. Young people traditionally hold the most volatile political sentiments. 
Some Notre Dame freshmen participated in a UCLA poll of college student attitudes this year. The poll indicated that a majority of students today still hold liberal opinions on social issues such as premarital sex, abor­tion (Notre Dame students stood out solely against abortion), birth control, feminism, and affirmative action, and remain largely liberal on foreign policy issues. They have indicated conservative attitudes on economic issues and thier own personal finances. An uncomfortable number holds "making a lot of money" to be their primary goal in life. 
So maybe a distinction needs to be made. Is it possible to categorize student attitudes as generally liberal and increasingly materialistic? If one takes polls as plausible reflections of public opinion, then there is no factual evidence showing that college students, nor a majority of American voters, are getting more conservative. 
Ken Kollman is a sophomore English and government major and a regualr Viewpoint columnist. 


[ P.O.BoxQ 
Father Griffin ignorant of Apartheid realities 
Dear Editor: 
While Father Griffin does not feel called 
to the prophetic ministry that Father Basil 
van Rensburgh is offering our campus, he 
might have shown more discretion. His col­
umn "But the Dome goes on forever," April 
25, was an uncalled for trespassing on a 
fellow priest's witness. In contrast, Father 
Hesburgh was careful to avoid belittling 
Father van Rensburgh's fast. 
The pastoral ministry that Father Griffin has provided for the Notre Dame community over the years has been important. I have read with pleasure his spiritual reflections in various Notre Dame publications. However, I have also been dismayed on several occa­sions during the past years, starting with the Vietnam War, to find Griffin peddling an in­tolerant brand of status quo politics. He has blasted students with a social conscience who struggle for justice on our campus. His tendency, as in his attack on divestment, has been to echo Father Hesburgh's line, come what may. 
It was surprising to find Father Griffin ad-
Garry Trudeau 

7H/ff'5 R16H7; JOAN. I 
WI3U., I CAN'Tcet.I&V& JUSTSOflH&
... ANP51NCEaYPC !MIN 

IT'S YOU, aype, lA/HAT !<lNG'S /3N6/..ISH
IA/A'5 HEP& ON 81.1SI-{f)OK_ 

1?/JNA FANCY W18/.E5 wow... 
CONcefi?N. IJII/ OP!:NIM'i REAUY? 
IIAPP£:NEi/J 70 7H& HIP, /JfCAM&MY
N&55, HI& 7HOfJGHT 15 COOK­

A t/XA1-~51fJ4170­
AM31?YffJ5&IU& /JIEil?£ M157!?£55!
tut'/?IRJP8Y! NaAJ! /&S? 
I

t flf(,'IQ(J'JUI'
/ 
/ 
dressing the divestment issue, something about which he knows very little. His statements that Father Hesburgh and the trustees are "not enforcing apartheid," that it is the Afrikaners who cause the suffering, that the Holy Spirit is not needed at Notre Dame but in South Africa "where the trouble is," betray an ignorance of the way U.S. policy and U.S. transnational corporations sustain the apartheid system. 
I would also like to take up Father Grif­fin's gratuitous, racist slur on South Africa's "Hottentot<." (The correct appelation is Khoikhoi.) As anthropologists have been telling us, the Khoikhoi developed a humane culture that has much to teach us about family, community and sharing. 
Peter Wa/she Professor ofGovernment 
The Viewpoint Department The Observer P.O.BoxQ. Notre Dame, IN 
46556 


Quote of the Day 


"Trouble is part of life, and if you don't share it, you don't give the person who loves you a chance to love you enough." 

-Dinah Shore 

,
VieWP-Oint Tuesday, April29, 1986-page 5 


Being open to changes makes life interesting 
Spring has sprung! This is the Irish's favorite time of year (Erin-Go-Braugh and all that) -and also a time of changes. A change from snow to sun (or is that snow to less snow), from the 'brar to Notre Dame's famed "quad beaches," a time of changing majors (I'm on my fourth), and with all of this plus Bookstore mania and An Tostal comes the rise of spring fever (which seems to lead to "The Fall of the GPA -Part II" for me). 

Carol Brown 

in these times 
Not literally (at least most of the time) -I have come to the grand conclusion, after my third change of majors, that although changes can be the cause of only a little con­fusion or as much as a major anxiety, they are a good and enriching part of life. Just as spring is a welcome time of growth and new life, so too are changes in our lives. If nothing else, change certainly makes life in­teresting. Without the ups and downs, the uncertainties, the surprises -how boring life would be! 
Of course, the problem lies in that many 
Issues not 'complex' to oppressed blacks 
II was very disturbing to read Professor Kommers' attack on a student who had writ­ten with conviction and concern about South Africa and the divstment issue in the Apri12J issue of The Observer. 
South Africa, viewed from the ivory tower, no doubt looks very different from the perspective gained by people who work among the poor and dispossessed in places like my parish in District 6, Cape Town ­where 50,000 black South Africans have been displaced by government order. 
There is something a bit cold-blooded about pronouncements on the "complexity" of divestment when they issue from the safe­ty of a white, middle-class institution like Notre Dame. For people in South Africa who are struggling to live their lives in peace and dignity, the issue is not complex at all. The great majority of black South Africans want to see Americans give some tangible avoid change simply because they are afraid of uncertainties. They are afraid of the unknown. We are all afraid to a certain ex­tent, and that is natural. We like the feeling of security. And, of course, we all need some stability in our lives so we don't go completely crazy. But the danger comes when we hold too tightly to our present way of life simply because we are comfortable in that particular mode, because we feel safe there. With this there can be no growth, no learning, no exploration of life's infinitude of possibilities. Without change, life levels off into a sort of routine mundanity. Yes, if you avoid change you will remain secure and comfortable-comfortably mediocre. 
Settling with mediocrity is an enormously steep price to pay for preserving a predic­table, "safe" way of life. Since we have got only one chance at life, it seems to me that sacrificing a little security seems an entirely small cost for the possibility of a greater happiness. There is a poem that says: 
"... the greatest hazard in life is to risk nothing. The person who risks nothing, does nothing, has nothing, is nothing. He may avoid suffering and sorrow, but he simply cannot learn, feel, change, grow, love ... live ... only a person who risks is free." 
That is right. Without risks, life is 
nothing. Yes, making changes in life is 
risky; there is no doubt about that. But what 
are you really risking? What have you really 
got to lose? I say the only real risk we have 
to face is the risk of being satisfied -"settl­
ing" for less than life offers. The greatest 
risk is going through life without taking the 
risk to "learn, feel, change, grow, love ... 
live." 
Of course, realistically, we all have to set­
tle to a certain extent. We cannot be and do 
everything all the time, simply because we 
are human. My proposition is that life -a 
fulfilling life -is an ever-changing and grow­
ing experience. We have to take the risk, go 
with the changes and grow with these 
changes if we want to free ourselves to ex­
perience the richness life offers. 
Just think where we would be if we 

resisted all change. Take for example the high school senior approaching graduation. He has spent the last four years building a life at his school. He has his friends; he's the school football hero; he has been going with lthe girl-next-door since freshman year. In other words, life is great, and he's happy right where he is. He doesn't want things to change. He doesn't want to leave all of his "glory days" to go off to some faraway col­lege where nobody even knows his name. 
evidence of their commitment to end apar­theid. This can only be done now by a will­ingness on the part of U.S. institutions ap­plying the only kind of pressure Pretoria understands, namely economic sanctions and divestment. 
Blacks know, for example, that talk of leverage through continued investment is not aimed at helping them. It is the sort of double-talk which permits "business as usual" with a pariah state. 
In the aftermath of the Nazi holocaust, the Catholic Church had to undergo a painful, critical self-examination. Catholics were obliged to confess that their Church, through constructive engagement (which is what Vatican Concordats with Hitler amounted to), had failed to witness effec­tively against an evil dispensation. The stu­dent Professor Kommers chides understands that Christians must not be silent, in the name of complexity, about ending-apar­theid. 
To the student, Philip Lau, I would say : "Thank you, and bless you." The next time a professor with an uneasy conscience tries to clobber you, remember that prophetic words which discomfort the establishment have, since the time of Amos, provoked brickbats. 
Fr. Basil van Rensburg Centerfor Continuing Ministry 
Racial slurs directed at student referee 

Dear Editor: 
How important is winning the Bookstore Basketball Tournament? For those of you who witnessed the ugly scene following the conclusion of the Leone's Stallions-Fun Bunch Finale game Saturday, you know it is more important to some than others. 
The game was tightly contested, with Leone's Stallions finally winning. Dissatisfied with the way referee Tony Dawson had officiated the game, the father of one of the Fun Bunch players approached Dawson and verbally berated him for over five minutes, calling him a "cheating nigger." Is this sort of abuse necessary in a tourna­ment that is supposed to be played for en­joyment and recreation? Does winning the tournament really mean that much? 
I doubt if this father would have made these outrageous comments if his son's team had won. 
This type of abuse is not needed in the tournament, whether directed at a player or at a referee. After all, they are students also, just like the players. And this type of abuse is certainly not needed from a parent, and par­ticularly not from one who has to resort to derogatory racist remarks to stand up for his son in an intramural basketball tournament. 
Maybe next year's Bookstore Committee will consider hiring professional high school or college referees to handle the last three rounds to ensure that student referees are not subjected to similarly prejudiced outbursts from ignorant, feeble-minded, "frustrated athlt:te" parents or students in the future. 
Michael James 
Vince Ca/liori 
Stanford Hall 


PLEASE HELP M~ ... ECH()ES"... 
AA444HHH... 

'WAKING UP THf £CNOEJ' 


The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­SIIy of Noire Dame du Lac and Samt Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the admm1stration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opimon of a majority of the Editor~al Board. Commentanes, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members oft he community and the free expression of vary1ng opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Who would? 
The point is most of us experienced the same feelings before entering college our freshman year. We were secure in our own worlds and afraid of the uncertain future we were to face. But how many of us would choose to go back now? Not many. It was a good change-a great change. We have all 
·grown (no, I am not referring to the in­famous 'freshman ten') and our lives have broadened immensely since our high school days. 
In fact, certain things change regardless of what we want. If the high school senior had chosen to hold onto his "glory days" they would unfortunately lose all of their glory. The new seniors would take over the school and the old senior would feel out of place. It would no longer be his school. All of his good memories would be shot. 
That is why I say we should accept change -even of the greatest things-and go on. We will still have great memories. However, if we hold onto the past -if we try to stop change -all of our happy nostalgia will be shattered. 

Carol Brown is a sophomore in the Col­lege ofArts and Letters and a regular View­point columnist. 
P.O. BoxQ 
Grave consequences will stem from attack 
Dear Editor: 
I am a Notre Dame student living in Lon­don, and wish to express my deep concern regarding the recent action America has taken against Libya. 
Living overseas can bring one nearer to delicate issues of foreign policy. In contrast, Americans at home may maintain a backyard attitude about foreign affairs. I urge Americans to reflect upon the grave consequences of last Tuesday's bombing of Libya. 
In general, our nation has attempted to solve a complex problem with an all-too­simple solution. Our eye-for-an-eye mentali­ty cannot support international amity. No longer can we combat unilateral acts of other nations without taking into consideration the impact on other nations having interests in that state, or the impact on the nation itself. 
Specifically, the bombing of Libya represents a step backward in American 
foreign policy. First, we acted in defiance of our European allies. Second, we failed to foresee realistically the effect of the bomb­ing, which ultimately has endangered both British and American lives. In addition, America, like Libya, is responsible for the death of innocent people. Third, we failed to recognize that one cannot use conven­tional warfare against sporadic terrorist at­tacks. We learned this lesson while fighting guerilla attacks in Vietnam. Finally, our ac­tions have leant further support to Colonel Khadafy. Since Tuesday's bombing, heap­pears as the downtrodden leader, stomped on by the United States. We cannot deal with such a man using logic or convention. His game has no rules. 
In conclusion, I pray that in the future we will swallow our pride and think harder about the consequences of our actions before we strike. 
Karen Koster University ofNotre Dame London Law Centre 

General Board 
Editor-in-Chief. . ... Joe Murphy Business Manager .... Managing Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . Kevin Becker Controller . .... . 
Viewpoint Editor......... . .. Scott Bearby Production Manager . ... Sports Editor. . . . . . .... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .. Accent Editor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . . . Samt Mary's Editor. . Margie Kersten Photography Manager . .. . Executive News Editor. . . . . .. Frank Lipo Systems Manager . . News Editor . . . Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manager . News Editor. . Mark Pankowski 
Founded November 3,1966 
. Eric Scheuermann . . Alex VonderHaar .. Chris Bowler ... James Carroll .. Anne M.Culligan Drew Sandier David Thornton . Mark Weimholt 

~-------------~ 


Tuesday, April29, 1986-page 6 
''I)NIOENTJFIED GRACE DEFEI\IOER'l"







Accent 

-
The name 
is the game 
"KHAilllFY, 510UEHEN&£, MONfU.q Mv.Fr:1N MELT, AND OTHf~ NATUI(.AL DISASfE'-S " 
ERIC BERGAMO 
features copy editor 
When it comes to the naming of athletic teams, things are kept relatively simple. There are the Chicago Bears, Houston Oilers, Los Angeles Rams, New England Patriots and Seattle Seahawks in the realm of football. 
College Teams have names that are slightly more unusual. There is the Georgetown Hoyas, for instance, and the Cornell Big Red: And don't forget the Figting Irish of Notre Dame. 
Then there are the teams that are in the Bookstore Basketball Tour­nament. 
The Jarvik 5. Hitler Youth. Minahoonies. The Bearers of the Holy Handgrenade of Antioch. Throttle My Puppy with a Wooden Mallet. Freudian Kamikazes. Blood, Sweat and Salamanders. 
No, you won't see any of the teams in the NBA or the NFL with names like these. 
Half the fun of Bookstore is wat­ching the action; the other half is looking at the names of the teams that are in the tournament. 
Most of the names can be placed into catagories. The others resist any attempt at this. Some of the names are hardly offensive. Some of them will offend everyone. 
Events From The News If it was news in the past year, it will surely be commemorated by 
someone naming his team after the event. Past news events so immor­talized have been the assasination attempt on President Reagan (Ronald Reagan and Four Other Guys Who Can't Shoot Straight, James Brady and the Washington Bullets), the downing of the Korean Airlines flight 007 (Our Russian Gunner and the KAL 007 Swim Team) and the assasination of An­war Sadat (Anwar Sadat and I Love a Parade). 
This year was no exception to the rule. The Achille Lauro hijacking provided for its share of names (Leon Klinghoffer and the Four Assasins, Klinghoffer's Swim In­structors), Ferdinand Marcos and Jean Duvalier made an appearance (Gerry, Ferdinand, Baby Doc and Two Other Guys Not Welcome Anywhere Else), spy scandals sneaked their way into the fun (Michael Walker and Four Other Soviet Spies) and hunger in Africa was represented (Five Ethiopians Still Hungry to Win). 
But the biggest news event was the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger. Now you might think that some sort of respect would be shown in the face of this tragedy. No chance of that; just look at these names. Challenger, Go With Full Throttle. Challenger and Four Other Balls of Fire. Tylenol, Challenger and Three Other Dead­ly Capsules. Teachers in Space. 
Obvioulsy · We Have a Major Malfunction. Ricky Nelson, Christa McAuliffe and Three Other Reason Not to Free Base While Fly­ing. 
In Bookstore, remember, nobody gets any respect. The Sports World 
Happenings in the world of sports supplied its fair share of team names to the tournament. There was the death of Pelle Lindbergh (Pelle Lindbergh and Four Other Guys dying to Hurt the Philadelphia Flyers), the drug pro­blems of Scott Skiles (Scott Skiles' Dealer, A Dude from Minnesota and Three Other Dudes) and Michael Ray Richardson (Playing in the Snow with Michael Ray, Michael Ray and the Snowflakes), the eye injury of Mookie Wilson (Mookie Wilson, Cyclops and Three Other One-Eyed Monsters), The New England Patriots and the Super Bowl Shuffle (Like the Pats and the Shuffle, We Only Look Good for the First 90 Seconds), Manhattan basketball misfortunes (Manhattan Jasper Transfers), and the academic problems of Memphis State Basketball players (Five More Basketball Players Who Won't Graduate From Memphis St.). 
Campus People 
Just because a person is well known on campus doesn't mean they are safe from having a team named after him or something he did. This year victims include Dig­ger Phelps (Digger Phelps and Four O'tber Guys Who Choked on Little Rock), Bill Healy (Pinnochio, Bill Healy and Three Other Famous Puppets}, John Goldrick (Goldrick and the Wiretappers}, Jeff Peters (The Jeff Peters Fan Club), Tim Kempton (Five Guys Still Worse Than Tim Kemton) and Emil T. Hofman (Emil T. and the Em­piricals). 
Playing Ability 
S orne name their teams to descnbe how they think they will perform (or have performed) in the tournament. There is Too White to Win, We Lost Twice Last Year, It's the First Time for Us, Hung Over But Slow, Still Uncoachable, We Shoot Pool Better Than Basketball, We Don't Shoot 'Till We're in the Bos, We Need Practice and Five Guys with Fewer Moves Than TheDancin' Irish. 
Can't Find a Name 
No matter how hard they think, some teams just can't come up with a name. They do the next best thing. They make up a name ex­plaining why they couldn't come up with one. Some examples of this strategy are Imagine a Funny Name Here, We're Not Going to Make It Past the First Round So Why Think Up a Clever Name and Some Stupid Name That Took Hours to Think Of. 
The Sexual Innuendo 
The majority of team names fit in­to this catagory. Some of the names are relatively mild while some are totally tasteless. S orne of the less offensive are Much More Manhood, Baby Let Go of My Ears I Know What I'm Doing, Keep Us­ing Sex as a Weapon, Milk Bag and the Nipple Clippers, The Em­barrassing Stains, Hang ll-Surf Naked, Five Screams from the Loft, I Have a Lovely Bunch of Coconuts for Some Reason, Five Times Longer, Five Guys Who Get Horizontal, We Would Have Called You Back But You Didn't Stay the Night, and Catherine the Great Meets Mr. Ed ­The Final Encounter. 
Just imagine the team names that were more offensive than those. The Bad Taste Hall of Fame 
Some teams have names that are so tasteless that they deserve some special recognition for reaching new heights in low taste. Here are this year's recipients. 
Christa McAuliffe and the Houston Rockets. A Wheelchair and Four Useless Limbs on Jake Nevin's Body. 
Bookstore Basketball is a showcase for athletic prowess, but it also showcases creativity when it comes to naming teams. Next year will bring another 580 teams, and it can be certain that reading the team names will be just as fun. 


The meaning of life is Calculus 105 

Saint Mary's is nirvana on earth. It's this newspaper stuff that did it a tough life and nobody really has 
KrlsMurphy Where else could a young Catholic to me, you know? It was tough this to do it but I did it anyway so man find so many cute females in year bringing you biting satire and nyaah,nyaah,nyaah. one place? Where else could a dry martini wit from the front lines 
Altered 

young Catholic man find such lax of this campus, but I came 
alcohol rules? Nowhere I know, through. I skipped sleep., ignored Hopefully I'll be back next Year. This is my last column of the year. members of the opposite sex and Joe. I wish they all could be S-M­classes, alienated my parents This is unless I get drafted over the I can't believe it. 9 months a2o I was draw funny stuff in your notebook. C. (you're working where!?) and summer or if my contract negotia­
a.geekylittlelost freshman full of You also ignore all the lectures and Secondly, one does not need to plumbed the depths of decadence to tions with The Observer break naivete, won erment and anxiety. anything else the teacher says until drink to have fun. bring you the story. As always with down. So in print I'd like to wish Today I'm a well adjusted, good test time. This is analogous to life Thirdly, having fun usually stardom there were a lot of fast cars you a happy summer. I'll be spen­looking, virile Domer who also because most people live life necessitates drink. Fourthly, the (a tan 1980 Subaru), beautiful ding my summer surfing on the happens to be extremely experienc­reckelssly until they sense death. rain in Spain falls mainly on South women (hello, SMC), drugs (cases west coast, so I'll think of you guys ed in everything from great Then they get scared and start to Bend. and cases of Miller Lite and Coca­when I'm heading out to the beach theological thinkers to fine French study. Fifthly, well, I can't come up with Cola Classic), psychopaths (Wally in the early morning and maybe wines. Amazing. You're saying, "Like wow, Kris. five good ideas at one time. and the Goon-man) and cheap you'll see me on "Wide World of 
I wasn't easy, though. I really ap­This is so heavy. But what does it The mangled state of this column thrills (this one really crazy girl Sports." Goodbye and good luck. plied myself this year, and I realiz­all mean?" Then I say, "What's this should give you a glimpse into the keeps every word I write in a scrap­Parting is such uh...uh. . . . It's ed my dream of learning life's most 'Like wow' stuff? Where did you 
mind of the columnist. book. I think she likes . It's such a complex and important concepts. learn to talk, in a nudist camp?" Mainly, life is hell. War is also Let me try to translate it for you. hell. Come to think of it, Calculus Life is really bogus. It gives me the 105 is hell, too. If we apply our dry heaves. Starting to get the idea? powers of reasoning to the previous Good! Because the big.one's com­statements and make the proper in­ing and we're all gonna die! frences we come to realize that a) Yeeeah! (horrible groaning noises Calculus 105 equals hell and that b) and nasty scraping sounds.) Life equals Hell. Therefore Life Cheez. I think everything was equals Calculus 105. easier when I was a simple little 
Are you following my line of freshman. I didn't have these hor­reasoning? If you are, you'll come rible flashes of impending doom. to the realization that life is just It's probably just impending finals. like Calculus 105. It's really hard I have learned several things of real and you never understand it the value this year, though. And as first time and you'd love to this is my final column before sum­transfer. Unfortunately, it's re­mer, I (in my infinite generostiy and quired, so you're stuck in it. To ·even more infinite stupidity) have make it more bearable you sleep decided to share them with you: through class, flirt with all First of all I have realized that 
~----------------------------­
-----------------~---

Tbe Observer Tuesday, April29, 1986-page 7 

_.,.~. "'~'t'~~1· ~;-;, ..... ""....l

~~i-:;It.~~:-~~<·~·~:~?f!v..=.~t...~:)~~vo;~.~~~_lT'.. ~•~, 
. \ ... "'


Sports Briefs ~.~· 
Today's baseball game between Notre Dame and Purdue will be broadcast at 7 p.m. on WVFI AM-64. Join Frank Mastro, Sean Pieri and Rick Rietbrock for all the action. -The Observer 
The ND/SMC Sailing Club will hold a meeting tonight at 6:30 in the boathouse on St. Joe's Lake. For more infor­mation call Joane Anderson at 272-1259. -The Observer 
Off-campus lacrosse players are reminded of the playoff game against Keenan tonight at 8 on Cartier Field. For more information call Tom Grote at 232-6952. -The Observer 
Any Bengal Routers who have not yet returned their ticket money must do so tomorrow from 6:30a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in the student manager's office in LaFortune. For more informa­tion call Ed Kelly at 234-7083. -The Observer 
Trivia night returns for this semester's final edition of "Speaking of Sports," airing tonight at 10 on WVFI AM-64. Chuck Freeby returns for his final night of stumpers, joined by hosts Rudy Brandl and Frank Mastro. The trivia answer hotline is 239-6400. -The Observer 
The Irish Guard will hold an organizational meeting on Thursday at 5 p.m. at the band tower on Green Field. You must be at least six feet, two inches in height. For more information call John Kennedy at 283-3407. -The Observer 
The An Tostal 5-K Hangover Run was held Satur­day, with 89 runners participating. John Wright won the men's division a time of 15:52, followed by Mark Gostigian, 16:56, John Abitubilo, 17:07, Jim Luke, 17:23, and Greg Poirer, 17:30. Col­leen Cain captured the women's title with a time of 22:08, followed by Jolene Runger, 23:21, Beth Bisignano, 23:33, Kack Hardy, 23:54, and Mary Ryan, 23:55. -The Observer 
.t, .. 
.,. 
-~. 
·~· 

' ' . • L ~ . 
vfl',t' 
. ·~·

• 
., ~­
/ 
.~ 

·. .· 
'.,\. 

~.~ 
APPhoto 

Grab Bag 
Manny Trillo of the Chicago Cubs dives back to eight-game losing skid by defeating San Francisco, first ahead of the tag of the St. Louis Cardinals' 5-4, and the Cubs edged the San Diego Padres, 4-3, Jack Clark in a game earlier this month. In yester­and the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Pittsburgh day's National League action. the Cards ended an Pirates, 2-1. 
The lihserr·t•r ~olrt· l>dmt· olfiLl' lotalnl on tht· third lloor ul l.alortUil<' ~tu<knt < <'111<-r Jl"l'l'PI' <ia"1finl a<.ln·rt""'!( lrum 'I d m unit! 1 p m ~1on<.ldl thruu!(h I rt<.la1 1he I Jhs.•rr·<'r ~dint ~I an·, ul'fitl' I•>< Jft·<.l un till' tlnrd floor ul IIJ!()(dr <.olll"!(l' ( L'lltl'r Jl LL'P'' L la--•fit·th Irum 12 ~II I'm until ~ rIll. \1un dJI thUU!(h I rt<.IJ\ lkadllllt' lor "''" dJ\ L '·""linl' ,, ~ rIll \II tiJ'"Iinh mu't ht: pn·pa1d t'lllll·r Ill pt·r,onor In mJll ( hJr~c.: ''Ill l t.'lll' pc.:r ll\t' t hJr.u.





Classifieds 
t<-r' n<.lal 

NOTICES 
Typing Ava!._ 
2117-<4082 
TY.....O CALLCHNS 
234-1117. 
Typing/WordprOCeulng 2n-e131 
GOVERNMENT HOMES from S1 (U repel<) Alao delinquent 1111 property. Call 1106-88HIOOO ext. GH-11834 for lnforma· lion 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CAll MAS. COKER, 233·7008. 
GOVERNMENT JOBS. 118,040 • 161.230/yr. -Hlting~ Call 805-887· 11000 Ext R·INI34 for current ,_ralllst. 
CL.UIII'IIDI ,011 THt: Nt:XT PUeUSHING DAY WILL Ill AC. Ct:I"TWD UNTlL 2 P .II. DAILY. 

LOST/FOUND 
LOST: KEY CHAIN with yellow "Grace Hall' lag al parly on Colfax St. or on campus. Without them I can't open my room, mailbox, car, or house. Please help me by calling 263­3610 or leaving lhem with rector, Fr. Lardner. REWARD. Thanks. 
LOST: Blue and gold Pony sweal jacket al slam-dunk conteat. No. 30 on lhe lag. Would appreclale If returned. Contacl Jeff al 3251 o'r 3252. 
LOST; Blue Kupperhlmer blazer al Lewis SYA, I also found same night a Blue Stafford Blazer~ We might have mislakon each others. If this sounds familiar, please call Bryan al 1884. 
FOUND: MEN'S CLASS RING By Flanner and Grace, deacrlbf> In· lllala and class year lo claim. Call Rose 239-7660 9a.m.·1 p.m. 
LOST ... LOST ... LOST ... LOST I loot my keya Thursday durin& An Tootal 11 SMC. They miaht be on the 1rass or they misht lwlve been in the women's room or H1.1111r (don1 ask II). There were four keys on a leather key rina. If found pl......-call Jim Winkler at 1107 or come to 131 Alumni. 
Found; Casio watch 4/27 at Stepan Courts. Call Steve 4364 to claim. 
USS ND lifesaving ring taken out of 
South Dining Hall Friday is worthless to you but most valuable to the owner. Please return to either dining hall · no questions asked. 
Found one basketball at Lyons courts on 
Sunday April 20th. after Air Monyak vs. 
Armed Dangerous game. Call John al 
2151. 


FOR RENT 
FURNISHEL HOUSES CLO!:>E. TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 28763811 
' & 5 BEDROOM HSES FOR RENT, BcOCK OF 5 HOUSES (3 LEFT) $400 MO CALL 25&-01133 OR 234-93&4. 
3 bedroom apartment, summer only. Fully furnished. tO min from NO, ~caul1ful $300 mo 233 6298 (even­Ings; 
SUMMER.& BDRM HOME. 272-6306 

~F_O_R_SA_LE~~ 
SELl fOUR C1.ASS BOOKS FOR SS$ ANL CREDIT! Cliff noteo available. PAN· l ,, >RA'S BOOKS 1137 South Bend Ave.
;""' .. .,.,,2 

,;,t'PI -IMAGEWAITEA, VERY GOOD 
' ''"' WITH CABLE, MANUAL. CAR· RYING CASE $275 OBO. 7016 CAM· "'-JS OR 233·1299 EVES. 
FOR SALE: Like new GE sleam Iron oN/lull Ironing board and cover. $15. I'· "v 233-5284 evenings. 
78 BUICK SKYHAWK. Clean, loaded.272-8308 
FOR SALE ~ 2-bed loll. ftnlshed & stained, black vinyl-.and 2 --.. Call Sheila at 272-1011. 
FOR SALE 4 COMMENCEMENT TIXS BEST OFFER OR WILL TRADE FOR USED CAR SEND OFFER TO P.O. BOX 964 NO, IN 46556 B4 05/07/88 
NEED BEER MONEY? I NEED GRAD TIXI BILL277-5617 
SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SS$ and CREDIT!!! Cliff notes available. PANDORA'S BOOKS 937 South Bend Ave. 133-2342. 
FOR SALE -1-bed loft, finished and 
stained, black vinylloveseal, and 2 drnsen. 
Call Sheila at 272-1068 
FURNITURE FOR SALE: Sft plaid couch. 4ft brown couch, both in great 
slwlpe. Lg recliner, chair, bookcase, m ore. LOW PRICES, MUST SELL! Rob or Andy 272-6783. 
AXES f'OR SALE Fender Rhodes 73 
Stage Electric Piano, Sequential Circuits 
Max Synth, Peavey 120 wall Amp, MIDI­Macintosh Interface. Call John Bat 4531. 
80 AMC SPIRIT: 4 CYLINDER, 4 SPEED, Am/FM CASSETTE, RUNS and DRIVES GOOD, LADY DRIVEN, $1800, 288-6117 or 259-7256. 
Printer for sale: New Star brand Power­type Daisywheel plus Tractor Unit, Users Manual, and calbe for Apple lie. $475. Call239-7735. ask for Jack Rivetti before I 0:30p.m. 
FURNISHED HOUSED CLOSE TO ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 287-6389 
4 and 5 BEDROOM HOUSES FOR RENT, BLOCK OF MHOUSES (3 LEFT) $400 PER MONTH. CALL 256-0933 or 234-9364. 

1'---_W_A_N_TE_D___. 
SWIM COACH -boy's varsity, Adams High School. One-half mile from campus. Nov. lhru Feb. Two practices per dayk, five days/wk. Ap­prox. $1900. Call Mr. Przybycz al 288· 
4655~ 

Need ride to Sarasota, Florida, Call Rob 1772 
RIDERS NEEDED to rent a car to Lons Island-NYC area. Leaving May 10. Call Brian 2560. 
Ride Needed to COLUMBUS, Ohio on Friday May 2. Call Bill at 4004 or Jock at 3109. 
One or two remales wanted to share 3 bedroom house, close to campus, 
available in May. Half rent is $137.50 plus utilities. If interested call Cindy at 233­5168. Leavemessqe. 
CHARITY BALL 
CHARITY BALL 
CHARITY BALL 
1976 PONTIAC · Astra; 4 cyl; 4 spd; AM/FM/Cass; Priced to sell at: $800; take a lookI-Tim: 288-5451 
MACINTOSH 400K EXTERNAL DAIV£ $260.00 PAT 283-4255 

TICKETS 
FOR SALE COMMENCEMENT TIXS BEST OFFER 2811-8417 B411PM 
Need Gradual ion Tix Desperately!!! WILL PAY ANY PRICE! !I John 4057 
NEED TICKETS TO N.D. COMMENCE­MENT EXERCISES. WILL PAY ($$). CALL BRENT, 2n-0417, EVES BEFORE 10. 
Wanted! One GRAD and SAT. Night 
dinner ticket. Michelle 289444S. 
HAVE BIG FAMILY AND NEED A LOT (10) OF COMM. TIX.! WILL PAY! CALL PAUL ZIMMER 277-39121 
Commencement Tickets Needed. Kathi 
5848. 
I Rftd only 1 COMMENCEMENT Uckeb I will pay BIG BUCKS Call Mike at 177-1067 
Grad tix needed. One commencement ticket and one ticket for dinner sat night. 
Steve4364. 
NEED COMMENC. TIX. ALL SIBL­INGS IN FAMILY OF I~ COMING. PLEASE HELP! WILL PAY$ CLETUS 232-8253. 
······························· 

PERSONALS 
RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK 
RASTAWEEK 
RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK RASTAWEEK 
Charity Ball Charity Ball Charity Ball 
ND/SMC CHARITY BALL 
A family alebration oflife Saturday, May 2 at the ACC. 
Get lavolved aow. 
OAII HOUSI!: COLO 111111 & UQUOR. CAIIIIY OUT TO 3 A-11. U.S. 31 N., 1 IJLOCK lOUTH Of HOLIDAY INN. 
Hungry? Call YEUOW SUBMARINE al 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday-Thurtlday; 5pm-2am Friday; 3pm-1am Saturday; 4pm·10pm Sunday. 
Do yoo Rftd a HOTEL ROOM for 
GRADUATION WI!:EKEND11T1 
Par...b .,.a1 mike It to S. Bead uadl 
Sat., M•y 17, so I h1vt one room 
anllabl< at tho S. lkad HOLIDAY INN 
for FRIDAY, MAY 16, ONLY 
Call177-7570 If INTERESTED 
SENIORS WORKING IN CHICAGO are 
invited to a reception put on by the Notre 
Dame Club of Chicago. Wed 7 p.m. 
Grace Penthouse. 
"My only regret is that I never won Mr. Stanford Contest" -Arnold Schwarzneg­ger, 1985. BE THERE. EXPERIENCE THE MAGIC. MR. STANFORD WASHINGTON HALL SAT. MAY 3 AT7:30COSTSI. 
To my beloved SECOND DOG. 
Thankyou for a wonderful week end. 
When can we eat roses together? 
With love 
Your diseased little princess 
'need Ride for 2 to SE Florida. Can leave May 12. Call283-4684 ASAP! 
Ride offered to Jersey Shore after finals ­Tom 1156. 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE! G.A.R. 
Joanie: 6~ 
Make it Strolu 
The Dreamer 
Thanks A lot St. Jude 
SANDY, Hero's your peno ...l 
To the MARAUDERS: Thanks for a great evening • didn't know you guys had so much class!! Love, the MARAUDET­TES 
AUGUSTA HALL (BETWEEN HOLY CROSS AND REGINA) PRESENT SENIOR SELLOUT THURS. May I FROM 7-9 p.m. AND ON FIR. MAY 2 FROM 5-7 p.m. WE WILL BE SELLING LOFTS, BARS, FURNITURE, CARPETS, AND MISC. ITEMS ALL FOR FANTASTIC PRICES!! IIIII 
NEED A JOB THIS SUMMER~ LIVE IN MILWAUKEE? Work on the lakefront, nexible hours. CAll 1264 
(Kristen) for info, interview. 
You asktdfor it, Ward, so M,. it is. .. 
CPA Word of tbo Ynr 
NOVATION 
P.S. The Witch in Indy and I lwlvelefl for Aruba with embezzled advertisina funds, 
see you in November. 
I Dayo Ull tho CPA 
Are you still alive? I miss you! 
NEED GRADUATION TICKETS OR ElSE I DON'T GET MY PLAID PANTSII 
CALL CHRIS AT 3151,3171 t>r 1170 alld lnvr • nana~. 
PREGNAN17 
NEEDHELJ'f 
Call 23W363. 24-hr hotline, counselina 
and free preanancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
YOMISSYCz., Mf&i jt b tphhz nbstinfmmpx xjuipvu 
zpv. 
The O'Hara Gana 
ORIGINAL MOVIE POSTERS! IN· NLUSTRATED CATALOG -three 11 cent stamps. CINEMAVERITS, BOX 31S, MENLO PARK, CA 94026. 
SENIOR.~ I '85 grad looking for roomiiUIIe in NW Chicago area. Let's &el together and save some BIG BUCKS! call Jim (312) 699· 7500. 
Resort Hotels, Cruise Lines and Amuse­ment Parks now acceptina applications for employment. To receive an appHca­tion and information, write: Tourism In­
formation Services, P.O. Box 7881, Hilton Head Island, SC 29938 

To Whoever Haa Aaaumad the ldantl­ty of MICHELLE DUNN PLEASE call 263-4011 and ask for Usa. There's more at stake than you realize. 
Established Band, Into New Music ­Lool<lng for a Gullarlsl and Drummer for Nexl Year, CALL MIKE 1778 
ND/SMC CHARITY BALL 
A family c,.lebraf/on of life 
Saturday, May 2 at lhe ACC. Gat lnvolvad now. 

MAKE EXTRA DOLLARS THIS SUM· MEA! TAKE THIS JOB HOME. Call 272-6260 weekends, 272·9161 week <lays. 
Van Ia a •nuaaance• to our aoclety. BEWAREII! 
PREGNANT? CONSIDER ADOPTION. LOVING PROFESSIONAL CATHOLIC COUPLE CAN PROVIDE A BAIIGHT FUTURE FOR YOUR CHILD. CALL COLLECT (21n 367-3379 AFTER 7:00pm. 
To lhe beautiful young lady I wrestled with In the JELLO on ThurSday ... Ia your nose alright? I'd like to find oul... Please call me at 3196 
The Observer Tuesday, April29, 1986-page 8 

Continual improvement drives ND to 5th place at Kent St. Invitational 
By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 

Four seniors on the Notre Dame men's golf team made an im­pressive charge after the first 18 holes at the 13th Annual Kent State Invitational to lead Notre Dame to a fifth place finish in a field of 13. The Irish finished with a score of 1152, as Kent State took team· honors with a score of 1103. 
After the first 18 holes on Satur­day at the Windmill Lakes Golf Course in Ravenna, Ohio, the Irish were in 12th place at 394. 
"It wasn't that we shot badly with a 78.8 average," said Notre Dame head coach Noel O'Sullivan. "We just could not click like we wanted to. 
"The course has a 73.4 rating, and this was our first year here. We needed another day to warm up on the course, and our continual im­provement through the tournament testified to that." 
The team put it together for the second 18 holes, shooting 380 (a 76 average for five members) to move into sixth place in one of the finest performances of Saturday after­noon. The Irish closed on Sunday 
Football coach 

Wisconsin's McClain dies 
Assoclaled Press 

MADISON, Wis. -University of Wisconsin football Coach Dave McClain collapsed in a sauna and died of cardiac arrest yesterday shortly after working out on an ex­ercise bicycle at Camp Randall Stadium, authorities said. 
McClain, 48, died at Saint Mary's Hospital in Madison after suffering the cardiac arrest between 2 and 2:15p.m., said Jim Mott, the Big Ten school's director of sports information. 
McClain was pronounced dead at 3:12p.m. 
The coach was exercising on his stationary bicycle, going through his normal exercise routine," Mott said. 'He then went into a sauna." Professor Steve Zimmerman was in the sauna when McClain entered, but left to take a shower, Mott said. When he returned and began talking to McClain, the coach didn't respond and Zimmerman called for help, Mott added. 
McClain led the Badgers to a 5-6 overall record this year, 2-6 in con­ference play. It was his first losing season after four straight winning seasons. 
McClain became the Big Ten school's 24th head football coach on Dec. 16, 1977. He graduated from Bowling Green State Univer­sity in 1960 and came to Wisconsin from Indiana's Ball State Universi­with a 378 (75 average) to complete their ascent. 
"It was a magnificent climb, and we left on a high note," said O'Sullivan. "You cannot be down, because it is the end of the race that counts." 
The top finisher for Notre Dame was Lon Huffman (76-75-71), who placed fifth out of 78 players with 
222. Team captain John O'Donovan shot a 225 (75-75-75) in a model of consistency to place lOth. Steve Fuhrer recorded a 232 (81-74-77), and John Anthony carded a 237 (81-79-77) to round out the late-round senior rally. 
"Hoffman had a tournament in the class of an MVP," said O'Sullivan. "It was a thrill to watch him perform. He has been our number-one man for the last three matches. 
"He has a terrific temperament on the course and in the van. His lively personality, and the fact that he is a mover and a hustler at prac­tice shows in his upbeat play. As a coach, you have to concentrate on the team, but you have to allow for individuality. You cannot make them all the same." 
The fifth man for the Irish was 
McClain was the first coach to have four consecutive winning seasons at Wisconsin since Ivan Williamson in 1949-54. He was 46­42-3 in his eight seasons and his Big Ten record was 32-34-3. 
The Badgers were invited to the Hall of Fame Bowl in 1984, their third post-season bowl game in four years. Previously they had gone to the Independence Bowl in 1982 and the Garden State Bowl in 1981. 
McClain began his coaching career at Crestline (Ohio) High School and became an assistant coach at Cornell University in 1962, at Miami University in Ohio from 1963-66 at Kansas from 1967­68, and at Ohio State from 1969­70. 
University Chancellor Irving Shain mourned McClain as a man "totally dedicated to his profession, who recognized the important benefits of intercollegiate athletics." "Dave's thoughts were always with his student athletes. He took great pride in their accomplishments both on and off the Field. He was a gentleman who worked hard at establishing positive relations with the university's many con­stituencies," Shain said. 
The university will miss his leadership and commitment to ex­cellence," the chancellor said. 
McClain is survived by his wife, Judy, and their three children, Tom,a freshman at UW-Platteville, Marcy and Mindy, Mott said. 
;=t=:;:;:;::==========:========::;:;:;:;:;::=:c=la:s;s::=:cs':::::rs:7::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:&=r* 
\\\\\\\\ Varden Studios \\\\\\\\ lll\ ::$pring Portraits Return: l!l: 
April 29th April 30th May 1st 


10am­
A-K 
L-T 
U-Z 
4pm 
ty where he coached seven seasons and posted a 46-25-3 record. 
-----~------.-...-~-----~---
.......-;,.-••~-----·~----·······iiii;:­
S25.00 IO S150.00 OFF•ave 
SEE THIS MAP 

On any Rant-it-Hare, Leave-it-There 
FOR YOUR SAVINGS 
RENT FROM SOUTH BEND TO ANY

Ryder One Way Truck Rental 






RYDER 
rents trucks to move it yourself 

Ryder Truck Rentai·One-Way 
AMX 

""'"'~ 
sophomore Rich Connelly (81-80­78), who finished with a 239, and junior Chris Bona rounded out the Irish squad and recorded a final score of 240 (82-77-81). 
Kent State is ranked in the top five in Notre Dame's district. Bowl­ing Green finished third at 1118, and Toledo finished fourth at 1122. John Trugh of Wright State (Dayton) was tourney's top medalist with a score of 217 (71-72­75). 
The last outing of the season for Notre Dame is the Mid-American Conference championships at Nor­thern Illinois which fields 24 teams, including 10 from the Big Ten, 10 from MAC and four major in­dependents. 
"We could end the season on an upbeat note," said O'Sullivan, "and that is what student athletics is all about. I want the seniors to have a fine taste in their mouths as they move through graduation. 
"There will be no pep talks. We wish we had more time and more tournaments, and it has been a long, ·slow process. When the players will return to their home courses, they will be throwing some impressive numbers." 
APPhoto
Milwaukee Breuer 
Milwaukee Bucks center Randy Breuer reaches for Philadelphia's Charles Berkley in a game earlier this season. Tonight, the Bucks and the 76ers meet in game one of their second­round playoffseries. In other NBA playoffgames tonight, Atlanta will meet Boston, and Denver will play at Houston. Both the Celtics and the Rockets lead their respective series, 1-0, going into 
this evening's action. 
AND-VIOU!NCE VOLUNI'I!EIIS 

Center for Tcachins Non-Violence is scckin& full-time staff. l.odtPn8. n 50/mo., a: health covcnae. One year commitment with •2000 separation stipend. PubUc interest rcscan:b and publilhina on agrcs­slon, dcvcloplna courses on non· violence and opcratin& National Coalition on Television Violence (TV, 61ms, war toys, sports, etc.). Nat to Unlvcnity ofillinois. Student loans deferable. 217·384·1920. Resume to 1bomaa Radecki, M.D., 
Bos2157 CbamoaiaiL61820. 


· ~~-•~:u~uaasaaa.EE~-.~~~~ 
L 
TriMork ot Northern tndlano 219-294·7239 8002-1·5710 
-----------------------------------------------------------~ 
----------------------------------------------------------~----~­

OF THESE AREAS AND SAVE. 

Offer valid only with this coupon. Not valid with other specials. 
SOUTH BEND LOCATIONS 1914 Miami St. 
2715 North Bendix Dr. 289-6721 OR 277-3550 2627 South Main St. 
232-6729 

Located only 5 minute" from Notre Dame. featuring all the luxuries in modern living. 
• 
Wd,hcr dryer in mo..,l 

• 
di~hwa~hcr t pri\l.dh: t>aJcony or paHo 

• 
..,wimming pool 

• 
~JdTdHC~ available 


1671-A N. Kivcr..,idc Dr. South Hcnd, IN 46616 233·2212 


T~e Observer 
Tuesday, April29, 1986 -page 9 




Women's tennis tops SIU, SLU; to face Northwestern in meet today 

By MIKE SZYMANSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's tennis team completed a successful sweep this past weekend by defeating Southern Illinois (Edwardsville), 6­3, and dominating St. Louis University, 7-0, to raise the Irish record to 17-4. 
"SIU (Edwardsville) is ranking number one in Division II," said Notre Dame head coach Michele Gelfman, "so it's unfortunate taht we're still not in Division II after the way we played against them." 
In singles action, senior Susie Panther defeated Michelle Wreen, 6-1, 6-0, and junior Mary Colligan outlasted Christina Bakeland, 7-5, 6-7, 6-3. Junior JoAnne Biafore won her match against Lisa Schiuto, 7-5, 6-3, and junior Tam­my Schmidt defeated Nicky DeMuro, 6-0, 6-3. 
NUL roundup 
Sophomore Michele Dasso lost to Portia George, 6-4, 6-2, while 
junior Isobel O'Brien dropped  to  
Jenny Reuter, 7-6, 6-3.  
In doubles action,  the  team  of  

Panther and Dasso defeated Ba-keland and George, 7-5, 6-7, 6-0. Colligan/O'Brien beat Wreen/Schiuto, 6-3, 6-2, but Reuter/DeMuro downed Natalie Il­lig and Biafore, 6-4, 7-5. 
"We saw sparkling play from Panther individually as well as in doubles with Dasso," said Gelfman. "The doubles team they played was ranked number one, and they just picked them apart. 
"Colligan had a tough match but hung in there and came out ahead. It was good to see some solid sup­port coming from the lower end of the lineup too." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame set the record for the fastest match time, taking only 49 minutes to complete­ly dismantle St. Louis, which could not give any real competition to the Irish. 
In the singles matches, Colligan defeated Deanne Keilmann, 6-0, 6­0, and Dasso came back from the previous day's loss, topping Amy Buscher, 6-0, 6-0. O'Brien took Lisa Wellinger 6-0, 6-1, and Biafore downed Liz Bresnahan, 6­2, 6-2. Schmidt finished the sweep with a win over Colleen Dowd, 6-0, 6-0. 
One Irish doubles team won by default, as the two other doubles matches did not take place since the score was already 7-0. 
"The season has been going well for us," said Gelfman. "We have been playing well through a tough part of our schedule. Our toughest match of the year, however, is to­day against Northwestern. We will need some solid performances in­dividually, and everyone has to pull their game and ability up." 

Leafs, Oilers keep series alive 
Leafs 5, Blues 3 
TORONTO Walt Poddubny scored the winning goal with 7:35 remain­ing and Dan Daoust scored into an empty net with 44 seconds left as the Toronto Maple Leafs defeated the St. Louis Blues 5-3 last night to force a decisive seventh in the NHL's Norris Division finals. 
Steve Thomas was Toronto's scoring leader, scoring twice and setting up Tom Fergus for another. Doug Gilmour scored twice and Mark Hunter once for the Blues. 
Oilers 5, Flames 2 
CALGARY, Alberta -Glenn Anderson's third-period goal gave 

Queen's Castle &The Knights $5 student $8.50 complet cut style 
MINUTES AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
Weal-feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Ceater See a tan In minute• .•• Not Hour• lronw lr St. R-d 23 (Acrou From M•rtln'•l 
TANDY CORPORATION/RADIO SHACK is pleased to announce an agreement with UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Extending to Faculty, Staff and Students a 
20·/.DISCOUNT 
On Any Tandy Computer and Any Software Accessory or Peripheral Purchased with the Computer. Order Authorization Forms and Complete Details of the Agreement Are Available Only AT.... 
Radio Shack Computer Center 1827 E. South Bend Ave. South Band. IN 46637 277-3789 

the Edmonton Oilers a come-from­behind 5-2 victory over the Calgary Flames last night to tie the best-of­seven series at 3-3 and keep alive Pai·n•. 
their hopes for a third straight Stanley Cup championship. 
Montreal Canadiens' Bobby Smith grimaces as he checks Hart­
The Oilers put the game away 
ford Whalers' Dean Evanson in a game earlier this season. These
when Mike Krushelnyski scored in­
two teams will meet tonight in Montreal to decide the Adams Divi­
to an empty net with 22 seconds left 
sion championship. Last night's playoff action is summarized at
and Graig MacTavish closed out 
left.

the scoring. 

UNIVERSITY CENTER 
directly behind Jeremiah Sweeney's & adjacent to Macri's Deli 
5ln ~uening of ~nterlaiment 
featuring 
'J~e ~niuer~ii\1 of inotre l)ame'~ ~oet-in-me~ibence, 

~ofe~~or ~au{ moc~e 
~oeir\): crf)e 58reaking <!>pen of Worb~ 
7:00p.m.9lpril 30, 1986 6tapleton £-ounge, £-e 9Ran~ S)all 6t. 9Rarv'~ Q:ollege 9lbmi~~ion i~ free 
co-~pon~oreb b\l 6t. 9Rarv·~ Q:ollege Q:ampu~ 9Rini~tr\l anb O:.av~ & £-e~bian~ at inotre 1)ame/6t. 9Rarv'~ Q:oUege 
Lacrosse 
continuedfrom page 12 
each other and pass so well to each other. Both can create and score of­fensively." 
"Defensively we have improved as Wally Stack and Jim Fallon have done a really good job. Jim Shields and John Olmstead are getting bet­ter each game. Tim Corrigan has developed a harder shot and has begun to challenge the goalie more. Dave O'Neill has really worked hard. He does the things that don't always appear in the boxscore like picking up the ground balls. Final­ly, the more Matt McQuillan has begun to play regularly, the better he has been getting." 
Summer Fall Spring 
WASHINGTON OR LONDON INTERNSHIPS OXFORD s~:ER 
Full AcaKtemlc Years In 
• Oxford University 
• LS.E. 
• St. Andrews, Scotland 
U.S. credtta will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded In VIrginia by James Madison In 1776. Graduate work Ia an option. The Director of Studies for the CenterforQualityEducation Abroad (In Brttafh) Ia the Rt. Hon The Lord Beloff, D.Litt toxon.), Fellow of the Brttlah Academy, Profeaaor Emerttua of Govemment and Fellow of All Souls, OlCford. INQUIRIES TO: JANET KOLLEK, J.D., Admlallona DirectorCOEA/ WISC, Rm 53, 158 W. 61 St., NY,NY, 10024. 
(212· 724-0804/724-0138). 
(EO/AA) 

The Observer Tuesday, April 29, 1986-page 10 

Senior Tom Shields connects on a line drive in a game earlier this season. Shields was named Midwestern Collegiate Conference Spring Athlete of the week after hitting 11-jor-19 (.579) and col-
though, and the Irish swept the Spartans, 9-0. "We played well, especially con­
St. Mary's track places 4th in Little State; 
sidering that we had to juggle our lineup with the loss of Dan Walsh," 
finishes season with a 3-2 dual-meet record Fallon said. "But Michigan State 
By ANDREA LaFRENIERE 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's track and field team wound up its season on Satur­day at the Little State Meet, held at Indiana Central College in In­dianapolis. The Belles finished fourth in the meet out of a field of 13, even though several members of the Saint Mary's squad could not attend the meet. Head Coach Jean Kerich said the results for Saint Mary's were good. 
SMC tennis edges DePauw falls to Toledo, 
By CHRISTINE FORTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team closed its spring season with one win and one loss. The Belles defeated DePauw 5-4 on Friday, and were handed a 1-8 loss from Toledo on Wednesday. 
Winning singles matches in the DePauw match for Saint Mary's were number-two player Heather Temofeew, number-three player Kim Drahota and number-six player Charlene Szajko. Temofeew had an easy two-set victory, while Drahota and Szajko won in tough three-set matches. 
Both the number-one and number-two doubles teams trium­phed over DePauw. The number­two team of Sandy Hickey and Temofeew won easily, putting the pressure on the number-one doubles team of freshmen Anne Dimberio and Bridget Heraty. The Belles were tied 4-4 with DePauw until Dimberio and Heraty won the deciding match. 
"It was a great win," said head 
coach Debbie Laverie of her 
number-one doubles team. "It was 
the best doubles match those two 
have played together." 
Szajko was the only Saint Mary's 
player to defeat her Toledo oppo­
nent. She won easily, 6-0, 6-1. 
"The scores were much closer 
against Toledo this time than they 
were when we played them earlier 
this season," commented Laverie. 
"The team has improved greatly 
during our tough spring season." 
All the players are returning in 
the fall with the exception of 
graduating senior Temofeew. 
Temofeew's contributions to the 
Belles will be missed, but Laverie 
looks forward to working with the 
promising new recruits in the fall. 
Irish depend on depth to notch three victories 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 

Depth is an important characteristic of any successful team, and Notre Dame tennis coach Tom Fallon gf)t a chance to utilize this in his squad's recent road trip. 
The Irish swept the three games against DePaul, Michigan State and Kalamazoo to boost their season record to 23-8, despite a back injury to number-one singles and doubles player, Dan Walsh, that kept him out of the Michigan State and Kalamazoo matches. 
On Thursday, the Irish, 
as Fallon expected, easily subdued lecting 13 RBJ's, 4 HR's and 13 runs scored. He led a weak DePaul squad, 8-1. the Irish to a jour-game sweep in weekend baseball Michigan State, however, was sup­action. Kevin Herbert details all teh action on page posed to present a more difficult 
12. challenge. That was not the case 
''This was a big meet, and as far as the girls who were there, we were represented very well," Kerich noted. 
Among the members who placed at the meet was freshman Theresa Rice, who finished second in the 800-meter run with a time of 
2:28.8. Cathy Kennedy, a sophomore, ran the event in 2:32 for fourth place. 
In the 1500-meter run, Rice took fifth place with a time of 5:05.8 
really was not very strong." 

Junior Mariclaire Driscoll was To play the Spartans was not the fourth in the 10,000-meter run with only reason the team visited East a time of 45:09. Lansing, however, as Fallonw 
The 1600-meter relay team of wanted to see the new indoor facili­
Kennedy, Rice, junior Anne Bianco ty that Michigan State has built. and freshman Lora Gill finished "We wanted a chance to see their sixth with a time of 4:29.7. facility because we hope to have 
Kerich was pleased with the our own i'ndoor facility by next Belles' 3-2 dual-meet record for the winter," he said. "We wanted to get season./ a few ideas, and right now, I think 
"Overall, I would say the season it's the best facility in the nation." was a good one," said Kerich. "We The 5-4 win against Kalamazoo had an. enthusiastic team, and we was an impressive one for the Irish, were competitive at our meets." as Kalamazoo had a sparkling 18-1 record heading into Sunday's mat­ch. Kalamazoo will most likely be the top seed in the NCAA Division III Tournament as well. These figures combine to make the vic­tory quite impressive. 
"That win is really a good one for us," said Fallon. "I was worried going into the doubles matches tied at three, but our guys came through." 
Coming through first was the team of Tim Carr and Dave Reiter, who took over for the team of Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs at the number-one slot and recorded a 6­3, 6-3 victory. Joe Nelligan and Tony Cahill then lost a disappoin­ting 6-2, 6-4 decision before the new team of Daggs and Brian Kalbas played well and took a 6-2, 6-0 match-clinching win. 
Fallon said he was very pleased with the performance of the players who were inserted into the void left by Walsh. 
"Our depth really came through for us," he said. "Joe Nelligan played well at the number-six singles spot, and the juggled doubles teams performed very well." 
The Irish are back home for a match against Purdue today. Pur­due defeated the Irish in last year's match, 5-4, and figure to bring essentially the same team, while the Irish will sport what Fallon calls a "much improved" version over last year's squad. The action will take place at the Courtney Courts, beginning at 2:30p.m. 

Assistant Production Manager 
• 
Salaried Position 


• 
Duties Include: supervision, hiring, and training of layout personnel 

• 
Previous design and layout experience Is prefer­red 


If Interested contact Chris Bowler at The Observer (239-5303) by 5 p.m. Friday, May 2. 
SPECIAL SHOWING FOR: ND·SMC Faculty, Students, Staff 
BRING ND-SMC 1.0. -.~~li?~Y.t:IJ~~!.Q.~~Y.-MAY 2 8:00pm 
ADMISSION PRICE DRASTICALLV REDUCED! 
• 
Bring ND-SMC 
I.D. to Box Office 
-GHo Slaktl, Chicafo Tribuoe -R..., !llor1. Chlcoto S.a n.. 
~.........~!~~~-~~~~.J[~~~!~~---~~l!.~....~=~-~-~:.~:..................i 
~4(Jt~C3l~-----------------------------------------T_u_es_d_ay_,_A_p_r_il_2_9,_I_9_8_6___
Pa_g_e__II 

Bloom County 
/ltLP.I N(J~ / 
MK. f!/II.AS H/15 
Mf?f10XI) ~'5' 
()f{ aimM£ 9"'
1Y /1 
//0 

/ 
Zeto 
Berke Breathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
WICK/ Ht'& HI/VING IU.WAK! tiP/ fl '8/(f/Y'Y IJ(JNCH~ 171/?Jo/ ON WIIK£ VI'/ R€1/CTION... ''Willi 
liN lltm/Jtm!/.. we£K.N
I liN IWTlfitJ!C/! " 
" 
Kevin Walsh 

"Now!" 





AlLIED
reception for: All Seniors Working 
SHIPPING 
Let us pack & ship your
in Chicago 

electronic equipment, stereo etc. direct to your home by U.P.S.
Wednesday, 7pm 

219.277.7616
Grace Hall Penthouse HOURS: 9-6 Mon-Fri 
*food & refreshments* 9-1 Sat
sponsored by: Notre Dame Club ofChicago 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS 
.23 


Tuesday, April 29, 1986 page 12 
ND Lacrosse splits weekend series; stays undefeated in GL conference 
By FRANK HUEMMER along. I think our kids will rise to Tom Grote chipped in with one Sports Writer the occasion this week." ,goal and three assists. The lacrosse team will be aiming Senior Tim Corrigan and junior 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team to finish out the season with 10 Jim Shields also contributed two continues to show that it is a for­wins which would be the most evert goals apiece. Not to be forgotten in midable team and a team to be for the team. Coach O'Leary spoke the victory was the outstanding per­reckoned with in the Midwest as it about the similarities between this formance that sophomore 
split two games over the weekend. year's team and his 1984 team goalkeeper Matt McQuillan turned The Irish travelled to Wittenburg which accumulated nine victories in, as he made 15 saves in the con­on Friday and thoroughly and the MLA title. test. outplayed the Tigers in a game 
The game against Ohio Wesleyan which saw Notre Dame roll to an "This was only the second time was just the reverse of the Witten­impressive 11-6 victory. On Satur­we were able to beat Denison and burg rout, as the Irish trailed earlyday, a very tough and aggressive the only other time was two years in the contest and could never catch Ohio Wesleyan squad handed the ago when we won the Midwest," up. The extremely tough OhioIrish a 17-5 defeat and their first said O'Leary. "This has been our Wesleyan put eight unansweredblemish in the Midwest Lacrosse second best team ever if not our goals on the board and led 10-1 at
Association. best team overall." 
the half. They tallied a few more "We have progressively improv­times as they made away with the Right now the Irish stand 8-3 ed during the course of this season. 
17-5 thrashing.

overall and undefeated in the Great One thing that is really indicative of Lakes Conference with two games that is that we have had good ball Tom Grote's three goals and two left to be played. The Irish battle movement. Nine of our II goals on assists coupled with Tirn Corrigan's Ohio ~tate at 3:30 tomorrow and Friday were assisted, and four of one goal and one assist paced the Michigan State at I :30 on Saturday the five goals yesterday were also Irish attack. Matt McQuillan came with both games to be played on assisted. This points out that we up with 12 saves as he played well Alumni Field. Head Coach Rich have become more team-oriented." 
despite allowing 17 goals.

O'Leary is looking forward to _good This weekend the Irish started performance from his club as it strong against Wittenburg as they As the season winds down,
Sophomore midfielder Tom Lanahan (24) of the Notre Dame 
heads into this week's action. jumped out to a quick 4-0 first­Coach O'Leary singled out some of
lacrosse team lays a heavy hit into a Michigan player in a game 
quarter lead. By halftime the the members of this year's team. 
played earlier this season. Watching the action is senior midfielder 
"We seem to be healthy since we margin had been upped to 7-1, and "Tom (Grote) and Joe (Franklin) 
Tony Rettino (14). In games this past weekend, the Irish destroyed 
got a few players back this from there the Irish coasted to the have complimented each other so
Whittenburg but lost to Ohio Wesleyan, the third-ranked team in 
weekend," said O'Leary. "We 11-6 victory. Sophomore Tom well," said O'Leary. "They look for
NCAA Division III lacrosse. Frank Huemmer details all the action 
played a real good team Saturday Lanahan led the winners with three 
in his story at right. 

and got better as the game went goals and one assist, while senior see LACROSSE, page 9 
Shields' hitting leads Irish to four victories over Butler U. 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
Tom Shield1i.' red-hot bat helped propell the Notre Dame baseball team to four big Midwestern Col­legiate Conference wins at the ex­pense of Butler this past weekend. 
During the course of the week, Shields, named the MCC's Spring Athlete of the Week, went 11-19 (.579) with 13 RBls, four HRs and 13 runs scored. 
This five-game winning streak has upped Notre Dame's season record to 20-22 with eight games coming up in the next six days. 
In the opening game on Satur­day, Butler opened up its top half of the first with three runs to take the early advantage. 
In the third, however, on the strength of hits by Pat O'Brien, Ken Soos, John Loughran and Tim Hutson, the Irish were able to tie the contest at three. 
Notre Dame then took a 7-3 ad­vantage in the bottom of the four­th. But starting pitcher Brad Cross ran into difficulty in the top of the fifth as he yielded two more runs. Junior John Gleeson was then call­ed upon to put out the fire, which he did, and the Irish came away with an important 7-6 win. 
Cross picked up the win, going four and two-thirds innings while yielding five runs. Gleeson picked up his fourth save of the year going two and one-third innings while giving up one run. 
In the second game of the twin­bill, Pat O'Brien and Pat Pesavento picked up three hits while Shields, Mike Moshier, Loughran, Hutson and Rich Vanthournout all picked up two hits apiece to lead the Irish to an easy 11-6 win. 
Sophomore Bryan Tuckerstarted the game and went seven innings, allowing four runs. Tucker was relieved by freshman Erik Madsen. 
who pitched two innings and gave up two runs. 
After Saturday's sweep at the friendly confines of Jake Kline field, the Irish went on the road Sunday to play a double-header against the Bulldogs on their home turf. 
Sophomore Kevin Chenail (3-2) pitched impressively, going the distance to record the ·shutout, as Notre Dame flogged Butler in the opener, 14-0. 
Shields was the offensive stan­dout as he went 4-for-5 with four RBis and four runs scored. In all, the Irish racked up 15 hits in the winning effort. 
The Irish were also the benefac­tors of good pitching in Sunday's second game as senior Mark Wat­zke (5-3) went seven innings, yielding two runs in earning the vic­tory. Senior Steve Powell picked up the save, pitching two scoreless inn­ings. 
Notre Dame tallied six in the se­cond, including a Shields home run, and never looked back as the team concluded its 4-0 weekend with a 7-2 win. 
Next up for the Irish is the Pur­due Boilermakers. This home con­test will be played today at 2:30 on Jake Kline field. 
Softball club hot with victory over Valparaiso 
The Women's Softball Club has been tearing up the basepaths lately as the team pushed its record to 7-5 last week. 
On Wednesday, Notre Dame split a pair with Grace Col­lege. In the first game pitcher Barb Mooney notched the win as Notre Dame won, 6-2. The nightcap was a dif­ferent story, as the Irish let Grace slip away with a 6-4, extra-inning victory. Tammy Goodwin led the team at the plate, going 4-for-7 for both games. 
The following afternoon the Irish had a relatively easy time of it, winning both games in five innings, 13-2 and Il-l. In the first game Mia Faust hit a perfect 4-for-4, and Lynn Boyle had a bases-loaded triple to pace the Irish. The second game featured Sue Bromacki's 3-for-3 performance, including a grand-slam home run. 
The club's stiffest test came Saturday night as Notre Dame faced Valparaiso, a team it had never beaten in the club's history. Despite Mooney's fine pitching perfor­mance, the Irish lost a heartbreaking, 2-0 game in the opener. But Mconey continued her excellent pitching in the nightcap, and even added a 2-for-3 performance at the plate to lead Notre Dame to a 9-5 victory. Faust also batted 2-for-3, and Jane Weldon produced several RBI's. 
Perhaps the biggest factor in this victory against Valparaiso was the the entire staring lineup was able to make the game. And as Head Coach Joe Speybrock points out, the Irish are tough when they have all their players. 
"This is the best I've seen them play all year," he said. "Last time when we played them in our season opener, they already had 22 games under their belts. This team is probably the best we'll face all year." 
Aside from some ossible make-up games, Notre Dame will play its last regular-season game tonight against its 
Pete Gegen 
Club Corner 


cross-stree rival, Saint Mary's. The action gets underway at 3:30 on the Saint Mary's campus. 
The Sailing Club took fourth place at the Toledo Regatta this past weekend. In the "A" division, skipper Ted Bremekamp and crew Mark Miller took fourth, -as did skipper Larry Andrea and crew Peter Wall in the "B" division. 
This weekend the club will sail in the Michigan City Yatch Club Regatta. 
The Women's Track Club wound up its season Saturday at the Indiana Little State Invitational in Indianapolis. Only two runners were able to place for the Irish. Julia Merkel took second in both the 1500 and the 3000-meter runs, recording times of 4:46 and 10:40 respectively. Laura Gidley placed third in the long jump with a leap of 17-3. 
Although Head Coach Dan Ryan wishes the team could 
have placed better at the meet, he was very pleased with 
the runners' performances throughout the season. 
"The girls have really worked hard," said Ryan, who volunteers his time as coach. "They made it worthwhile to me to give a little of myself to the team." 
Merkel, the team's top performer, plans on running in 
two more meets this spring on her own. Because of the 
team's club status, it is hard for her to be able to run 
against the top competition in the nation. 
"My goal eventually is to make nationals," said the 
sophomore. "It would be complicated to do, and I still 
have to bring my times down a little." 
Both meets she plans to run in will take place at the 
University of Michigan. 
The Rowing Club did not fare much better last weekend 
at the Midwest Sprints in Madison, Wisconsin. Onlly 
four boats placed in the top six for Notre Dame. 
The 'A' and 'B' boats of the men's Varsity Lightweight­
eight took fourth and fifth, respectively. And the 
women's Varsity eight took sixth, as did the women's 
Novice four. 

The gutsiest performance came from the women's 
Novice eight boat of Patty Go ntarz, Patty Griffal, Sara 
Rau, Colleen Cary, Kathy Skahan, Chris Jajesnica, 
Veronica Weabock, Gigi Junkins and coxswain Pam 
DeLuco. Trailing in fourth place midway through the 
consolation race, the boat powered its way to the front 
and edged Kansas by two-tenths of a second. 
The season is over for all the boats except the men's 
Novice Heavyweight-eight boat, which will be racing at 
teh MACRA Regatta this weekend. 
Finally, the Rugby C Jub discovered this weekend why Bowling Green was the Midwest Cup champion. The 'A' side lost, 46-12, and the 'B' side also came up short, 18­
11. the 'C' side was able to manage a 15-8 victory. 
This weekend the club will close its season at home against Ohio University. The 13-4 Irish defeated Ohio on their way to third place in the Midwest Cup Tournament. The game starts at 1 :30 at Stepan field. 







