..---------~--~------------------------------------.-~~--------~----------------------.--.--------------~--------~---------­
r 
IRISH EXTRA -INSIDE 


VOL XXI NO. 23 FRIDAY-SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26-27, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's · 
Brothers get vanance1n bid to open Corby Tavern 
By MARILYN BENCHIK Assistant Saint Mary's t:<litor 
The prospective buyers of Corby Tavern arc one step closer to opening the once-popular stu­dent bar after yesterday's meet­ing of the South Bend Board of Zoning Appeals. 
Thomas and Robert Przybylinski, two brothers, received the variance to continue legal non-conforming usc of the property. 
The brothers needed the vari­ance because opening the tavern at its present location conflicts with a city ordinance code. The code states no more than two controlled-usc establishments can operate within I, 000 feet of each other. 
Two other bars arc now opcr­atingat the intersection ofCorby, South lkn<l Avenue and Eddy Street. 
The Przybylinski brothers still Christina Reinhard seems to have found a must get a license from the In­
Snite Museum, as she sits studying this work porary artists are featured at present exhibits 
peaceful way to spend an afternoon at the by Marc Chagall. Chagall and other contem-at the museum. diana Alcoholic and lkvcrage Commission (ABC) before the tavern can open. The license hearing has yet to be set.

House passes historic tax revision legislation 
The president of the Northeast 


WASHINGTON -The House of 
Representatives voted 292-136 
yesterday for landmark legisla­
tion that would change the way 
most Americans pay their in­
come taxes while shifting a big 
share of the burden to corpora­
tions. 
The bill was hailed as the most thorough income-tax revision ever. The political breakdown: I 76 Democrats and I 16 Republicans voted yes; 74 Democrats and 62 Republicans voted no, with many of them ex­pressing concern about the bill's impact on an economy plagued by sluggish growth. 
I t1e margin of victory for the measure was more overwhelm­ing than even its staunchest sup­porters had predicted. Some had forecast it would pass by 30 to 50 votes. 
rinal Senate action this week 
or next would send the bill to 
President Reagan for his signa­
ture. That would mark the end 
of a two-year fight for an issue 
Reagan put at the top of his 
second-term agenda. 
White House spokesman Larry 
Speakes said Reagan "welcomes 
today's vote by the t1ouse." 
'The country is now only one vote away in the Senate from enacting the president's number one domestic priority -a tax sys­tem that will promote economic growth, simplify tax returns for the vast majority of Americans, return the code to a promise of fairness and equity, and most important of all, reduce rates for most Americans," Speakes said. 
Rep. Dan Rostenkowski, D-111., a chief author of the bill, said, "We are going to let the American people know that their legislative process is working. that when they request of their leaders in Washington a change, that we respond." 

The legislation, he added, responds to a public demand "that the family down the street or the corporation across town can't beat the system any longer." 
"We must not pass up this his­toric opportunity to make a con­tribution to those elements ofthe 
American  economy  that  have  
long  been  neglected:  the  
working poor,  the family,  labor  
and  capital,"  said  Rep.  Jack  
Kemp, R-N.Y.  

"This is the most sweeping tax­reform legislation in the llistory of this nation," Speaker Tllomas O'Neill, D-Mass., said in closing the debate. "If we pass this bill, the 99th Congress will assume a 

AA hosts special meetings on game days 
By REGIS COCCIA Copy t:clitor 
On every home football weekend, ther Notre Dame Alunmi Association hosts a meet­ing of Alcoholics Anonymous at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The special group meeting was inaugurated this year after the Alumni Association sponsored an Alcoholics Anonymous ses­sion at the annual reunion last June, according to Charles Len­non, executive director of the Alumni Association. 
Alcoholics Anonymous is an organization dedicated to hel­ping men and women with drink­ing problems. 
"People suggested having AA meetings during the football season," a local member of Al­coholics Anonymous said. The member said the meetings have been very successful. Alcoholics Anonymous maintains a strict policy of anonymity for all its members. 
The meeting at the center's multi-purpose room convenes every home game Saturday at 
9:30 a.m. 
The Alumni Association pro­vides the meeting place for members of the Alcoholics Anonymous fellowship and as a convenience for alumni, accor­ding to Lennon. "We're more than happy to provide the ser­
vice," lennon said. 
"Alcoholics Anonymous is not afftliated with any other organi­zation." a local member said. "AA is a fellowship of men and wo­men who share their experi­ence, strength and hope with each other," the member said. 

Joining Alcoholics Anonymous is simple, according to a local member. "The only requisite for membership is a desire to stop drinking." the member said. Anyone interested in becoming an AA member can attend a meeting where he can share his problems with others. 
Although the special meeting at the Center for Social Concerns is open only to members of Al­coholics Anonymous, a local member said, there are weekly meetings in South Bend open to the public. The member said 
see AA, page 3 

Neighborhood Council, Arthur special place in the history of this Quigley, came to the meeting to country." state his opposition to the 
Within moments of the bill's tavern's opening. passage, Rostenkowski strode to "With all of those bars in that his office and hanged a "Gone location, it will be hard to control Fishin" sign on the door. and card that many people, and 
The bill would cut individual it will be difficult to maintain con­and corporate tax rates deeply ditions as to offer a good quality and eliminate or reduce several of life for the residents," said deductions and exclusions, in-Quigley. 
see TAX page 4 see CORBY'S, p~ge S 


Alumni Association slates weekend events 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association has prepared a list of events scheduled for the weekend: TODAY: 
4:30p.m.: Band steps off for rehearsal from Washington Hall. 7 p.m.: Pep Rally held at Stepan Center. TOMORROW: 9 a.m.: The Notre Dame Marching Band marches from Washington Hall to Cartier Field. 
9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family an<l friends are invited to the Hospitality Center in the North Dome of the ACC. for refreshments, entertainment, films and information. Coffee will be available from the Alumni Association. 
9:30a.m.: Alcoholics Anonymous will hold a closed meeting in the multipurpose room of the Center for Social Concerns. I 2:30 p.m.: Band Concert from the steps of the Adminis­
tration Building. I p.m.: Performance by the Notre Dame Glee Club in the North Dome of the ACC. 
I:30 p.m.: Performance by Shenanigans in the North Dome 
of the ACC. 2:10p.m.: Band pre-game performance in the stadium. 2:30p.m.: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs. Purdue University 
Boilermakers After the game: Hospitality Center in the ACC North Dome. ' 
_i----···----··----­

. ' ' . -' -i 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986 -page 2 
/ 

Football fans might see red if they do not wear long pants to University of Wisconsin games. Deteriorating fiberglass seat covers in some sections of the stadium have given some fans an itchy, red rash. University officials said the seats are scheduled for removal next year. -The Observer 
Libertarian U.S. Senate candidate Bradford Warren said yesterday that the federal government should legalize drugs from laetrile to heroin rather than using taxpayer dollars in anti-drug campaigns. "Many drugs aren't good for us, but the war (on drugs) is worse," said Warren, an Indianapolis attorney. Because drugs are illegal. dealers can command high prices for them and pile up large profits, he said. The high prices also lead to crime by drug users and the high profits attract innocent people to the drug trade, Warren said. If illicit drugs were legalized, the government could gain tax revenue from their sale, he said. He said that new revenue should go "not to (drug) treatment programs, but should be dedicated to reduce taxes." -Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Pins found in two packages of Hostess Ding Dongs were ruled an Isolated incident by state health officials Wednesday, and no recall was ordered. Two people were hospitalized Tuesday after injesting pins while eating Ding Dongs purchased at a Cub Food store on the city's east side. David McCarty, a spokesman for the Indiana State Board of Health, said "preliminary evidence" Indicated the tampering was isolated to the one store. A spokesman for Continental Baking Co., which makes snacks under the Hostess brand name, said both tampered packages were from the same lot. 
Of Interest 
"The World of Business," the second talk in the series "Society and Ethics: Conversations about Some Issues," will be held today from 12: 15 to I :00 p.m. Philosophy Professor Montey Holloway and Accounting Professor David Ricchiute will speak. The talk will be held in the Multipurpose Room of the Center for Social Concerns and is open to faculty and staff. -The Observer 
A Saint Mary's College Alumnae Tailgater will be held Sat­urday at 10 a.m. on Madeleva soccer field. This free event is sponsored by Saint Mary's student government and student affairs. It will be held in the Haggar College Center terrace in case of rain. -The Observer 
A student competition to design a unique architectural image for McDonald's restaurants is being sponsored by McDonald's, in conjunction with the American Institute of Architecture Students, Inc. (AlAS). The competition is ex­pected to be the largest of its kind. Prizes totaling more than $1 I,000 will be awarded to the most innovative designs. Entries must be submitted by Nov. 25 and awards will be announced Jan. 8, 1987. Official registration forms and pro­gram information are available through the AlAS office, I 735 New York Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20006 or by calling (202) 626-7472. -The Observer 
The Black Cultural and Arts Council will hold the Big Brot­her!Big Sister Bash at the Lewis Hall Party Room from 8 to I 0 p.m. Saturday. Ageneral meeting will be held on Sunday form 6 to 8 p.m. Elections for class officers will be held at this meetin~. -The Observer. 
Weather 

Boilermakers rust in the rain, so God has ordered it to be partly cloudy today with highs in the mid to upper 80s and lows near 70. A 40 percent chance of thunder­showers tomorrow with highs from 80 to 85. 




--Ihe-Obse"'~er-----------·
--· --~~Y~ 
Design Editor ......... Chris Bowler _Campus Scene Editor ..• Eric Bergamo LAyout Stoff . .........• Cathy Stacy Campus Scene Copy Editor • . Ed Nolan TyJH!Sftters •.•....•.• Chris Reardon Campus Scene LAyout ••. Karen Webb News Editor .•.•..• Mark Pankowski Typist .. ......•..•.•.• Esther Ivory Copy Editor ........•.... Jim Riley ND Day Editor . ..•. Noreen O'Connor Sports Copy Editors .......... Burns AdDesign . .•.......... Fred Nelson .•....•.•••..•.•.... Rietbrock (w) Irish Extra LAyout Kathleen McKernan ..•..•.•....•........ Strasen (Sv) Photographer . ..••..•. David Fischer 
Color in today's newspaper was provided through the generosity of Anheuser-Busch, Inc. 
~ Observ~r ( l"SPS ~99 l--tOOO) is published \tonda~· throuW! Frida)' except durin~ exam and vacation JXriods Th~ O~rv~r il> publi~hcd hy the students ofthe l·nin~r~ily of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Colle~e 
~ ObK~r is a memhcr of Th~ Assoclat~d Prrss. All reproduuion riKhts Mt' 
resrro.·ed 



Overemphasis on winning can throw fun for a big loss 
I laced up my old cleats, threw on my dirty sweatshirt and loosened up my arm. Yes, I was ready for my first section football game of the year. 
The purpose of these autumn contests, I always thought, was to have some fun tossing the old pigskin around, meet some guys from the other sections, and maybe get a little exercise to boot. 
By halftime, however, I realized everyone else was playing for a different reason. 
TO WIN. 

As the second half progressed each team be­came even more intent upon winning. Self­appointed leaders began rudely ordering their section-mates around like a drill sergeant ordering a Marine recruit. 
A rough push here and a mild dispute over pass interference there soon had the players on each team angry with one another. 
Anger quickly turned into a bad argument over a touchdown, and the argument nearly led to a fight between two players. One of them had to be restrained. 
What happened to a little fun and exercise? What happened to meeting a few guys from the other section and throwing the football around a little? 
This wasn't the first time I had participated in a section game or even a pick-up game at the Rock that started out as an amicable contest be­tween friends and ended with a heated argument. 
I couldn't help asking myself why these people were taking a silly little football game so seriously. What could cause people to get into fights over a game that was supposed to be fun? Is this what some people call fun? 
Winning is very important to some people. This includes winning at any sort of competitive event, even one that may seem trivial, according to Notre Dame Professor of Psychology Delia Saenz. 
Saenz said that in our society, winning is equiv­alent to success, and success is an important con­tributor to our self-esteem. She said people relate their self-esteem to achievement. 
People are raised to value different things, said 

Saenz. Some people are raised to believe grades 
are important, some that social situations are im­
portant and others, like some of the players at 
the section footbal game, that sports ability is 
important. 
As a freshman I remember being told, at one 

of those exhilarating orientation speeches, that 
80 percent ofthe Notre Dame student body earned 
a varsity letter in high school. If this is true then 
I would be willing to bet there are a lot of Notre 
Dame students who value their sports ability. 
Saenz said if people value their sports ability 

highly, they will be very competitive in sports. 
"Someone highly competitive will always seek to 
succeed. Competitive people relate their ability to 
their self-esteem," she said. 
The value of success is very high at colleges, 

Comprehensive programs for 
persons with: Bulimia Nervosa Anorexia Nervosa Compulsive Overeating 





HOPE 
HealthyOptions for Problem Eaters 
in the treatment of eating disorderS. 


All affiliate of Memorial Hospital of South Bend m 
Chris Bednarski 
or any other place that stresses achievement, said Saenz. She cited examples where notebooks and advance copies of tests were stolen to increase the chance for success. 
Although notebooks occasionally are stolen un­der the watchful eyes of Our Lady, Saenz said she thinks the moral factor of religion at Notre Dame curbs some of the competi~ion for grades seen at other schools. "The pre-occupation with cut­throat competition may be tempered by religion," she said. 
Saenz added the drive for success could even cause people to commit suicide if they value something too much and then fail to achieve suc­cess at it. 
Not everyone is raised to believe success is the ultimate achievement. Saenz said some people are raised to believe that enjoying an event such as a football game is more important than win­ning. 
She said it is best for a person to have a com­bination between being very competitive and simply enjoying an event. "If people are too com­petitive then, they will get too involved in winning and lose out on the fun of an event," she said. 
Maybe the students playing section football can remember this the next time they get ready to start a fight over six points. 


\ 

The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986-page .3 

Ethanol plant may ·get $8.5 million 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND A government­supported ethanol plant pinched by a sharp drop in prices and denied further subsidy by the Legislature, may receive $8.5 million from a settlement paid the state by Exxon Corp., officials said yesterday. 
The proposal announced by Lt. Gov. John Mutz must win the ap­proval of the federal Department of Energy. 
Use of the $50 million paid In­diana by Exxon to settle an over­charging case is restricted by federal legislation. 
South Bend's $186 million et­hanol plant, built and operated by New Energy Co. of Indiana, began production two years ago, aided by a $10.89 million ap­propriation from the General As­sembly. The ethanol is mixed with gasoline to form gasohol. a mixture that boosts octane rating of unleaded gasoline. 
But falling world oil prices caused the price of ethanol to drop 60 cents in 1986 to well below $1 a gallon, company Chief Executive Officer Donald Evans said. Earlier this year, the Legislature killed a measure that would have provided an addi­tional $7.8 million subsidy for the venture. 
"This is one of those situations that is marginal at the present time," Mutz said as a partial jus­tification for the additional money. 


In an annual report filed with the Federal Securities and Ex· change Commision, New Energy said the lower 1986 prices "have greatly limited the ability of the company to profitably produce and market ethanol." 
But Evans said the plant is producing 60 million gallons a year, exceeding its rate capacity of 52.5 million gallons, and is current with its debt payments. "We aren't prospering, but we are meeting all our obligations," he said. 
The $8.5 million payment, if approved, would be given as a grant to be repaid only if New Energy becomes profitable, Mutz said. The money would be used to help meet payments on a $14 I million federally guaranteed loan, Mutz said. The company is renegotiating to ex­
tend  the life of the loan  to  13  
years  from  the  present  eight  
years.  
"The  plant  will  be  self­ 

sufficient after this round of help," Evans said. 


Soviets still hold Daniloff as Shultz seeks agreement 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Soviet officials yesterday considered a two-stage U.S. proposal to let American newsman Nic­holas S. Daniloff leave Mos­cow, and Secretary of State George P. Shultz left the door open for another meeting with the Soviet foreign minister. 
"We're working on it," Shultz said In between meetings with foreign minis­ters attending a special U.N. General Assembly session. 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze held his own series of talks, and told reporters while posing for photographs with French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac: "the less noise the bet­ter. We continue to work in a calm atmosphere." 
Shultz and Shevardnadze met twice Tuesday. One U.S. oftlcial said yesterday that the negotiations were "active," and that Shultz might see Shevardnadze again. 
The Reagan administration proposal would let Daniloff leave Moscow while Soviet physicist Oennadl Zakharov Is tried In Brooklyn on spy charges. If Zakharov Is con­victed, he would be ex· changed for an unspecified number of Soviet dissidents. 
Administration officials publicly refuse to equate the Danlloff and Zakharov cases, saying the U.S. News & World Report correspondent is inno­cent. They also rule out any trade. But privately, they ac­knowledge the proposal has been put to the Soviets for consideration. 
Shevardnadze said earlier yesterday that "we have given good proposals" to the Americans. "They must think about them." 
AA 
continuedfrom page 1 

is accepting applications for tbe following positions: 

Copy Editor Day Editor 
Applkatioas are due by Friday, Sept l6. Inquiries should be made to Tripp Baltz or Mark Pankowski Call 239-5313 or come up to Tbe Observer's new offices on tbe third Door of the LaFortune Student Center. 
anyone interested in M can at­tend these meetings. 
At Notre Dame, Holy Cross House holds IS weekly meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous, open to all M members. The Memorial Library on campus recently began hosting a weekly meeting for the convenience of M mem­bers as well as Notre Dame fac­ulty and staff, a local member said. The member also said Al­
coholics  Anonymous  holds  85  
weekly  meetings  in  the  St.  
Joseph's Valley area.  



ALL STADIUM FACE STRIPING 
PAINTING TO BE DONE ON GREEN FIELD NEAR SRIALUMNI CLUB 


Nor~E DJ.l"''e 

AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY FUNDRAISER 
Sponsored by the Finance Club 
of Notre Dame 

AMERICAN AMERICAN
I I
CI/CANCER 'fCANCER
•Half of the proceeds donated to American Cancer Society 
it SOCIETY~
'SOCIE1Y~ 
t The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986 -page 4 



Tax 
continuedfrom page 1 

f eluding those for Individual Re­I tirement Accounts, consumer in­
~ 
terest and sales taxes. On the I average, individual taxes would 
I 
' 
be cut about 6. I percent -less than $4 a week -and more than 

I. 6 million working poor would be 
I I 
dropped from the tax rolls. Several million couples and indi­viduals would face tax increases. 
Over the next five years, cor­

f porations would pay a $120­billion greater share of the tax burden and business would lose a major incentive forjob-creating investments -changes that worry some lawmakers and economists. Members ofboth parties spoke against the measure -expressing fears that it would damage an already sluggish economy, im­pose another burden on the middle class or destroy jobs in their districts. The legislation, said Rep. Bill Frenzel, R-Minn., will hurt eco­nomic growth, savings, job crea­tion, exports, U.S. competitive­ness, housing, education and charity. Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas, added, "There is both good and bad in this bill. The risks associ­
t. 


Soft 




Contact Lenses $19.86 


Daily or Extended Wear 
Now you can treat yourself to the contact lenses you have always wanted at a price anyone can afford! For a limited time Dr. David Tavel has reduced the price of Softmate daily or extended wear contact lenses to an unheard of price of 
$19.8 6.• 
OFFER EXPIRES OCfOBER 31, 1986 

•Exun is ICQuired at tbe time of purchase and is not included in the sale price. Offer is invalid on prior orders and may not be combined with anv other discount 
Providers for all Insurance programs. 
"At Dr. David Tavel's Premium OtJtical, we've been servinR TndiaM's eyecare nuds (or over 40 years. We 

carry on a tradilwn of [•;I•)~] Medicaid \Velcome : 
excellence that is 

Call for an appointment today. You'll see better for less. Dr. Tavel's Premium Optical has been caring for eyes for over 40 years with 32 locations in Indiana. Shouldn't you trust the care of your family's eyes to Indiana's largest, oldest and 
most trusted name in eyecare? 
ated with the bad outweigh hoped-for benefits of the good." 
Archer tried to have the bill sent back to the Senate and House negotiators who produced the final compromise -a move that probably would have killed it. He was defeated, 268­160. 
"This bill poses no threat to the economy," Rostenkowski told the House. "About the only people I haven't heard from are those people this bill does the most for low-and middle-income families. They are the men and women to whom we must make our case, no matter which way we vote." 
"The loss of tax provisions favoring capital income may lead to a decline in investment as farmers and small businessmen choose to repair, rather than to replace equipment and build new plants," said Rep. Edward Madigan, .R-111., echoing economists who testified before a congressional panel. 
Sponsors said the lower cor­porate rates and generous depreciation system in the bill would be sufficient incentive for business to invest. Anti-tax shel­ter features would free for pro­ductive use money that now is invested to avoid tax rather than turn a profit, backers say. 
Opponents  had  other  prob­ 
,., ,,  •  
~  
~  
..  
Mid-October  ~ ~  

(219)277-9682 • 
~ 
• ~ 
I; ,., ,.. ,.1
' I 

lems with the bill. Some were Congress apparently agreed with concerned that while helping the Reagan's assessment that "this poor and the rich, it would dis­historic legislation will achieve a criminate against middle­number of major reforms that income families by restricting are important to the health ofour some prize deductions. economic and political system." 
Others were upset that home· The final compromise is based state industries would lose spe· on the principle that Reagan ad­cific tax breaks. vocated in a message to 
But most members of Congress in May 1985 -lower 
Graduate into Management 


at Taco Bell 
Your college edlJcation was the first step in your business career plan. Now you're looking for more than just ajob. You want a progressive career in a top company where there's room to grow. And that's exactly what we can offer you at Taco Bell. 
As a leading division of Fortune 50 PepsiCo. Inc.. Taco Bell is built on success and currently operates over 2.000 restaurants. When you ccnsider that food service is the second fastest growing service industry in the U.S.. with sales over $115 billion. you get an idea of the remarkable potential for Taco Bell and for you. 
Our comprehensive Restaurant Management training program is designed to give you hands-on experience in the full spectrum of restaurant operations. including accounting. cash management. inventory control and human resource management. If you have the ambition and drive to excel. you can advance rapidly to multi-unit supervision arid beyond. These opportunities are available to graduates from any academic discipline. As a college graduate. you will earn a minimum starting salary of S18K annually and receive excellent company benefits. 
Now is the time to explore your career potential at Taco Bell. We encourage you to talk with our Representatives who will be interviewing on campus: September 30, 1986 
Equal Opportunity Employer. 


TACO 11ELL~ 
A PepsiCo. Inc. Company 
A great pizza is getting harder and harder to find. 
But ben It Ia. Great tuty cn~sl Lua· doua sauce. Real cbeeae, If&ted fresh Topplnp. topplnp. t.opplnp. 


bave to ro out or your way to find ua. we ro out or our way to make It worth every step you take. 
rates and fewer deductions -even though the plan was reshaped several times as it worked its way through the congressional process. 
The most-striking feature is a significant reduction in tax rates. The top individual rate, now SO percent would be cut to 33 per­cent. 



• 
52920 U.S. 31 N 277·5880 
r--------------COUPON--------------~ 
I 

Friday and Saturday I I 
I

Coupon Special Large for ~Price of Medium 
Good for Carry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
wnsurpassed. And that's a 

SOUTH BEND • MISHAWAKA
promise {rom tM doctor. 

--N -·~· 
Broadmoor Plaza K-Mart/Martin Center EXPIRES 10-10-86 ~=·· 
a~ 
Across from Scottsdale Mall NCltt door to Osco DnlJt 
291-4000 258-5000 L---------------------------------~­
+ 

----~~~----~--~------------~-------.-~------~ ---------------~------------------------~---------~-------------­
Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986-page 5
The Observer 
. 

Town tense as killer eludes police 
Associated Press clal meetings were canceled. or lay wounded and immobilized Business was slow except at somewhere in a field or woods. 
WRIGHT CITY, Mo. -Residents shops selling groceries and am­"We think he is out there, and of this farm town were growing munition. we're after him in full force," said Increasingly tense and angryyes­Life has not been good in Hal Helterhoff, FBI agent in terday knowing that a mentally Wright City since Michael Wayne charge of the St. Louis office. ill man suspected In three Jackson arrived Monday night in Authorities, however, said they slayings might still be in their a stolen car and a blaze of gun­had no solid leads on Jackson's midst after eluding a three-day fire. whereabouts. dragnet. "How can one man come in 
Almost everyone had a gun, here and disrupt so many "Tomorrow we will do very and didn't hide it. Frightened people's lives?" Karen Glrondo much what we did today," Hel­families huddled behind locked asked. "We used to be a friendly, terhoff said at the end of yester­doors, fearing the suspect might quiet little town. We'll be glad day's search. "We are committed show up on their doorstep. when It's that way again." to that." Armed FBI agents rode school About 100 officers yesterday Jackson was last seen fleeing buses to protect children who swarmed the community and a stolen Cadillac on Monday hadn't been kept home. Freight countryside, believing Jackson night just minutes after he ex­trains rolled slowly by officers remained either holed up some­changed gunfire with two Wright hugging shotguns. Civic and so-place that had a source of food City police officers. 
Attention Fighting Irish Fans 
Now you can enjoy THE FIGHTING IRISH FIGHT SONG everytime the phone rings. The FIGHTING IRISH RINGER is now available in limited quantities: 
a.-(ft;~ ..{!_~ 
Third's a charm

-~N6E~~ 
Hopeful Howard Hall-dwellers hail for Holtz in this banner hung from 
Simply plug it into your phone and enjoy the song when friends call you. Due to limited their home. The Irish face the Purdue Boilermakers tomorrow, giving Holtz a third chance for his first victory as head coach at Notre
quantities the unfilled orders will be returned unopened. 
Dame.

(Please pay by cashier's check or money order. Personal checks will delay your order due to check clearance time.).,---------------------, 
Blvd., was permitted to stay open
I Enclosed is $9.95. Send Ringer to: 

1 previously for years because it 


~ Name Corby's
1 

was protected by a grandfather1 Address I clause, which allowed it to oper­I City,ST I continued/rom page 1 ate despite the controlled-use or­
Quigley added there will be dinance.
I ~P I 
more neighborhood opposition
I FUTURE VISION 1 
at the upcoming ABC meeting. The tavern closed April 2,
I telecommunications I 
"The voice of the surrounding 1985. Because non-conforming
I Box 831541 I 
neighborhood will be stronger at use ceased for more than a year, 
I

I that meeting than it has been up the board had to approve con­until now," he said. tinued non-conforming use Corby Tavern, I 026 Corby before the tavern could be 

opened again. 
The board met in August to 
decide the fate of the tavern, but 
it was discovered not all the 
neighbors of the property had 
been properly notified of the 
tavern's reopening. The neigh­
bors have since been notified. 
CTI, which had controlled the 

assets of the tavern, sold them 
to Thomas Przybylinski on Aug. 
29, 1986. The brothers pur­

chased the actual building from 
another party. 
Before Corby Tavern closed, its license was revoked by the ABC for serving alcohol to minors. 
The board decided at yester­day's meeting that the Przybylinski brothers needed to provide a recorded commitment promising no minors would to be served. 
Attorney John Gourley, who represents the Przybylinski brot­hers, immediately produced the necessary document. 
The Observer 
Is now accepting applications for the following position: 

Maintenance Manager 
• 
Duties Include: maintenance of production equipment 

• 
Salaried Position 


If Interested, stop up at The Observer, 3rd Floor, Lafortune Center to fill out an application. Deadline: Wednesday, Oct.1 




The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986-page 6 

t 
t 
( 
I. 
,. 
' 
~· . 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS A local com­pany is offering a IS-minute honesty test for businesses that want to screen job applicants for trustworthiness and drug use. 
Carl Cohen, president of CIC enterprises, said "The Integrity Interview" was developed by 16 lawyers, psychologists, business consultants and linguists. 
The client is instructed to have the job applicant call CIC on a toll-free Indianapolis number to take the test. 
A CIC operator takes down such information as the appli­cant's name, age, sex and Social Security number, and then turns on a small cassette recorder. Ap­plicants respond to the taped questions with "yes," "no" or a number. 

The simplified format makes the test understandable to nearly everyone, Cohen said. 
"People can't read anymore," he said. "But they can still listen. We gave this test to sixth-graders and they understood itvery well." 
The test is designed for those seeking entry level positions, Cohen said. 

•'C(J'Qowetcg {;of{ oQQ or.c~ogioM 
Come in and Browse 

327 Lincolnway 232-3354 

Belly Dance Surprise Service 
"for a gift that lB unique, send a bellygram to yourshlek" 
255-3355 
see our ad in the campus yellow pages 
ND Apparel Headquarters 15% OFF EVERYTHING IN STORE! except sweats 
Complete outfitter for intramural sports 
FOOTBALL AND SOCCER SHOES NIKE & ADIDAS 
D NIKE Open Field (white) $25.00 
D All CONVERSE Basketball shoes $15.99 (escept dae ~~NGpoaJ 

SR 238 & Edison Rd. Mon-Fri 10-6 (across from King's Cellar) Sat 10-5 
277-7284 

Close of textbook case nears as Christians call for prayer 
station attendants, fast food cas­hiers and other positions in 

Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit.
which people routinely handle a lot of money in small denomina­

Our large, contoured beds are over 7 feet long tions. 
and provide a 360° tan. Most of the questions, 
2314So. Bend Ave.(next to·Martlns) 
however, ask about general atti­

Call for appointment 277-6444
tudes or seemingly trivial inci­dents. 

Open 8-8 Mon-Frl 8-4 Saturday 
wantto tell your sister in Scarsdale about studying Spencer? 
DIAL UP.CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Wantto tell yourgirt in Galveston about going goofywilhout her? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Any time you pick up the phone and dial ~ Clark long distance, you'U dial up savings. 8ecal ase Clar1< quality long 

have objected to the pacifist. magic, feminist and other anti­Christian themes they said they found in the 198.3 Holt, Rinehart, Winston readers. 
The parents, demanding a religiously-acceptable alternat­ive book. do not want their chil­dren reading Shakespeare or stories such as 'The Wizard of Oz" and "The Diary of Anne Frank" In the context of the Holt readers. 
Hull, who presided over eight days of testimony in July, has given himself .30 days to decide the civil case, which both sides predict will be appealed In federal court. 
Most people who take the test are applying forjobs such as gas 

Associated Press 
GREENEVILLE, Tenn. Arguments ended Wednesday in a lawsuit over Tennessee's textbooks that pits seven fun­damentalist families against public school curriculum, with one parent asking Christians to pray for the federal judge who must decide the case. 
"I encourage Christians everywhere to hold Judge (Thomas) Hull up in their prayers," Vicki Frost said on the federal courthouse steps after closing arguments by attorneys for the families and the Hawkins County school board. 
Frost and 1.3 other parents 
distance oosts less ... 5% less than AT&T for comparable calls. 
So make your first call acall to Clark's OIH3T1pUS representative at 283-4150. Orvisit our office in Room G89, Memorial library. And phone home ... for less. 
e 
CIARK-IFLE . CO'vfvl..K\JICATIOf\JS, 1~. 
. ···--~ 
The Observer 
friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986-page 7 
Soviets honor three Chemobyl firefighters for heroism 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW The Soviet lJnion yesterday bestowed its highest honors for heroism on three firefighters at the Chernobyl. nu­clear plant who battled flames at the No. 4 reactor and prevented a greater nuclear disaster. 
Two of the firefighters, Viktor Kibenok and Vladimir Pravik, died of radiation sickness. The government newspaper Izvestia printed a picture of the surviving firefighter, Major Leonid Telyat­nikov, on the front page beside official decrees naming them Heroes of the Soviet lJnion. 
Telyatnikov, who was pictured in Soviet media in May with a full head of hair, was bald in the lz­vestia photograph. 
Doctors treating victims of the April 26 Chernobyl disaster, which has claimed .31 lives to date by official count have said hair loss is a common conse­quence of exposure to massive radiation doses. 
Radiation from Chernobyl spread across several European countries and large areas of the Soviet lJnion. The losses to the Soviet economy from the dis­aster have been estimated by the Soviets at the equivalent of nearly $.3 billion. 
The announcement that three men had been honored as heroes was made a day after the newspaper Literary Gazette carried a major article that 
criticized bureaucratic bungling. 
selection of the site and other 
shortcomings as contributing to 
the disaster at Chernobyl. 
The decrees honoring Telyat­nikov, Pravik and Kibenok said they had been awarded the gold stars given to heroes in the So­viet lJnion for "courage, heroism and selnessness." 
Soviet television also an­nounced the awards, showing photographs of the three firefighters in their uniforms before the Chernobyl disaster. 
Telyatnikov was also shown in what the television said was a May interview in a Moscow hospi­tal. He was much thinner than in the earlier photograph and his hair was almost gone. 

The television commentator apologized that TV could not show pictures of the reactor fire on April 26 and said film shot then was spoiled by radiation. 
For the first time, television showed a diagram of the plant which made clear that its four reactors are at each corner of a rectangular machine hall con­taining the turbine generators powered by steam from the re­actors. 
The roof of the building housing the No. 4 reactor was ablaze when Kibenok and Pravik arrived at the scene, the televi­sion commentator reported. 
"The most terrible thing was that the fire was threatening the machine hall ... with all the tur­bines" and could have spread to the No. .3 reactor, the television said. 
Like other media accounts, it said Telyatnikov, Kibenok and Pravik prevented the blaze from engulfing the No . .3 reactor and nearby oil storage tanks. 
The youth newspaper Kom­somolskaya Pravda on May 16 gave a vivid account of how Pravik and Kibenok arrived to fight the blaze minutes after No. 4 reactor had been ripped open by an explosion. 
Kibenok, Pravik and Telyat­nikov were honored in a story in 
Izvestia  with  the  headline,  
"Thank  You,  Heroes  of Cher­ 
nobyl."  

\burbasic problem: 
Physics Genetics Statistics Calculus Complex Numbers Analytical Geometry Stress Analysis Organic Chemistry Probability Gaussian Tiansfonnations Differential Equations Tttrations Electromagnetics Thennodynamics Fluid Mechanics Etc., etc., etc. ••• 


Yot1rBASIC solution: 

Introducing BASICALC: The new Texas lnstnnnents programmable calculator. 
Now there's a programmable scientific calculator that solves even the most complex math, engi, neering and science problems in a BASIC way. The TJ,74 BASICAlC. 
Unlike most other programmable calculators that require you to learn a new, complicated system of keystroke commands-in effect, a new 
Your basic specs: 
• 
Operates as a calculator or BASIC computer 

• 
BK RAM expandable to 16K RAM 

• 
70 built,in scientific functions 

• 
Optional software cartridges for mathematics and statistics 

• 
Optional PASCAL language cartridge 

• 
Optional printer and cassette interface 


© 1986TI. 
programming language-the TI-74 BASICALC allows you to use the BASIC language program, ming you already know. 
But don't let the BASICALC's ease ofopera, tion fool you. It also has more calculating power than comparably,priced programmables. And a variety ofoptions, like software cartridges, are available that make it even more powerful and convenient. 
Stop by and see the TI,74 BASICALC for yoursel£ In basic terms, what it really offers you 
is a bargain. TEXAS .., 
INSTRUMENTS 


Media given mixed review by Americans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Many Americans have serious reserva­tions about how the news media report terrorist incidents, but people also think news organi­zations do a goodjob ofcovering major events like airplane hUack­lngs, said a survey released yes­terday. 
These mixed feelings toward the news media were broughtout In a Gallup Organization poll commissioned by the Times Mir­ror, a Los Angeles-based media organization. 
"Americans are of two minds about press-related Issues," Gal­lup PresidentAndrew Kohut said. "They give the news media high marks on overall performance, but sharply lower grades on spe­cific press practices." 
On specific stories, 84 percent of the respondents who followed the news said the media did a good or excellent job covering the January explosion of the space shuttle Challenger; 80 per­cent felt that way about the TWA flight 847 hostage crisis In Beirut; 80 percent approved of coverage of the Achille Lauro hUacklng In the Medlterrean; 79 percent thought the Chernobyl nuclear disaster was handled well, and 71 percent approved the reporting of the Pan Ameri­can World Airways hUacklng In Pakistan earlier this month. 
Still, many Americans seem disturbed by the role the media plays In terrorist Incidents, the poll said. 
For Instance, 51 percent of Americans said the news media give terrorist Incidents too much attention, while 40 percent said the coverage is about right. But 56 percent said the news media give terrorists too much oppor­tunity to promote their cause. 

The findings were based on telephone Interviews with 1,504 people In July. Gallup said there Is an error rate of .3 percent. 
In a separate quiz, 776 people were interviewed In September about the case of Nicholas Danlloff, the U.S. News l!1 World Report Moscow correspondent who has been arrested and charged with spying In the Soviet lJnlon. That survey had an error rate of 4 percent. 
The poll showed 7.3 percent of Americans have followed the Danlloff case closely. Twenty­four percent thought there was "no chance whatsoever'' that Danlloff was a spy; .34 percent said "only a very small chance," 22 percent. "somewhat of a chance," and 10 percent. "a good chance." The remainder did not answer the question. 
r­
:f 
ViewJ2_o___i_n___t________________r.rl.da·y--Sa-tu·r·d-ay_._Se....pt·e·m·be·r-26·--27_._1_9_8_6_-_palllllllilge-8 
Pro-life movement becomes ecumenical concern 
Catholics should show a preferential option for the poor, the weak, the downtrodden, the oppressed, the victims of injustice. A Catholic campus is a place where this message should be consis­tently proclaimed and lived by both stu­dents and faculty. The Notre Dame 
Janet Smith 
guest column 
campus has distinguished itself by its commitment to many causes fully in keeping with the teachings of Christ. Ex­amples abound: there spring to mind several recent projects emanating from Notre Dame or having the clear support of Notre Dame: settlement of refugees, caring for the homeless, Dismas House (which eases the transition back into so­ciety for prisoners), and currently the ef­forts to establish a Catholic Worker's House. I suspect it would take several pages even to approach a comprehensive list of the range of volunteer activities pursued by individuals on this campus; surely there are few if any campuses where so many do so much. 
Those who undertake to live out their witness to Christian love by attending to the needs of others soon find they are tested in their willingness to make the generous sacrifices of time and money required; they are challenged to per­severe in the face of discouraging set­backs; often they have to endure the scorn of others who do not share their commitments. 

Involvement in the pro-life movement is a cause which certainly requires all of the above from its advocates. The enor­mity of the evil perpetuated by the legalization of abortion simply staggers the imagination; the killing of over a mil­lion and a half babies each year calls for the most energetic opposition possible, but makes it difficult to sustain the hope that one can succeed. And most pro-lifers must endure harsh judgements of their motives; they are regularly considered 'judgemental" and "insensitive to the needs of the poor" -the list goes on. I will not go into the treatment which pro­lifers receive from the media, but suffice it to note that they have been so success­ful in portraying pro-lifers as right-wing, fanatical, narrowminded Catholics, that it took nearly a decade for many Protestants to recognize that pro-life is their cause, too, and for many liberals to assert their characteristic compassionate commit­ment to the rights of the weak and to the needs of women with problem preg­nancies. 
Times are, thankfully, changing; the pro-life movement is quite thoroughly ecumenical at this point and liberals are joining the ranks. For instance, the group "Pro-lifers for Survival," an anti-nuclear, anti-abortion group, has been growing steadily in recent years; more and more feminists are declaring themselves against abortion (see Sidney Callahan's article in Commonweal, April 1986 and the article by Jenny Ernest Soley in the October 1986 issue of Sojourners). 
Surely opposition to abortion ought not to be limited by religious affiliation or political idealogies; protecting the lives of the unborn should be the job of all Christians -and any others who believe in the protection of the rights to the in­nocent. So, too, ought Christians -and others -give generous support to women needing their assistance to carry their babies to term. 
Many in this community have done so. Space here allows me to mention only a few, but the Notre Dame and the South Bend communities are home to several individuals who have made-and continue to make -significant contributions to the pro-life cause; Father James Burtchaell, 
Prof.  Charles Rice,  Charles McCollister,  
Professor  Donald  Kommers,  Virginia  
Black,  Mary Hunt,  John  Connaughton,  

Brother John Lavalle, Glen and Betty Ter­ry, and Mary Anne Hughes. These indi­viduals have served in many capacities: they have written books, done public speaking, founded and served in local and national organizations, and given enormously of themselves for others. 
And the commitment of the students on these two campuses has been remark­able. The Right to Life Group each year tries to keep the campus informed of life issues and has been the chief inspiration and support behind the Women's Care Center, an organization which has as­sisted thousands of women. Several stu­dents, too, have gone on to set up such Centers in their home communities: the good work spreads! 
Janet Smith is an assistant professor in the Program of Liberal Studies. 
Editor's Note 
To celebrate this commitment and to encourage many others to unite in this cause, the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life Group is hosting the First Annual Respect U{e f1ass and Dinneron Saturday October 4, 1986. The mass will be held at 5:00 at Sacred Heart Church Notre Dame. The chief celebrant aml homilist will be Bishop D'Arcy. Father Hesburgh will co-celebrate. The dinner will be held at 6:30 in the Stepan Center, Notre Dame. The speaker for the dinner will be Douglas Kmiec, professor oflaw at Notre Dame, on leave, currently serving as Dep­uty Assistant Attorney General in the U.S. Justice Department. The title of his ad­dress is "Respect {or U{e and Respect for the Law: Are they the same?" 
Consistency is missing in Reagan's presidency 
If Ronald Reagan were allowed to run for a third term In office, he would most likely be reelected president of the United States. In the last electon, he won every state except Minnesota, who voted for hometown boy Walter Mondale. Reagan may be one of the most popular Presi-
Tom Varnum 
guest column 
dents ofall time. My question to you, as educated, concerned people, is: WHY? Why Is Ronald Reagan so popular? His positions on major Issues are question­able at best. If you support Reagan and would like to see him run for a third term, please listen to what I have to say. Then, ifyou still support him, you may proceed and attempt to repeal the twenty-second amendment to allow him to run again. 
'• Ronald Reagan, in effect, supports nu­clear proliferation. 
Nuclear proliferation Is the single fast­est way to ensure the extinction of mankind. As It stands now, we have enough nuclear weapons to destroy the world many times over. The more weap­ons there are, the greater the chance of one being used. 5o why does Reagan con­tinue to build moreweapons? Good ques­tion. Instead of trying to end production

t 
and development of nuclear weapons, Reagan continues to pour more money

r 
Into projects like the MX missile and Star

I' 
Wars. It's not as If he has to take the first

(, 
step on the Idea ofnuclear disarmament.

f 
I
( 
f f 
( 
r 
I 
~ 
r 
The Soviet Union has observed a test ban for a year now and has urged the United States to join them. Reagan refused. Ronald Reagan continues to push closer to nuclear war. 
• Ronald Reagan does not support harsh economic sanctions against South Africa. 
Reagan seems to think P.w. Botha will see the light through gentle nudging. Why does he think a man who has no qualms about arresting and detaining people for the fun of It would respond to a gentle nudge? Good question. The only way Botha is going to get the message is through harsh economic sanctions. He can't do much without money. Construc­tive engagement claims that by making the businesses In South Africa uphold the Sullivan Principles, It helps the blacks more than It harms them. Sure, our money doesn't harm blacks directly, but consider this: the companies must pay taxes to the South African government. I am sure the boys In Pretoria do not spend that tax money on low Income housing for blacks. I am also sure that some of 
this  money  winds  up  paying  for  the  
policemen  who  round  up  the  
demonstrators  against apartheid.  The  

claim that Japan or West Germany would simply step In with their money after we leave falls short. We do have considerable Influence with these countries. I am sure a few choice words from Washington would be enough to persuade them to take their business elsewhere. Reagan continues to silently condone apartheid. 
• Ronald Reagan supports, encourages and demands giving $100 million to Nicaragua. 
Giving money to Nicaragua is the first step toward repeating the greatest mis­take in our country's history. Vietnam began the same way: with military aid. What followed were advisors, troops and chaos. Why hasn't Reagan learned from our own mistake? Good question. Sen­ding that much money to Nicaragua is like lighting the fuse on a stick of dynamite. If $100 million isn't enough to overthrow the present government, Reagan will probably send In advisors. And Ifthat doesn't work, troops will arrive to protect the advisors. After that, fighting could begin. If the people of Nicaragua want a new government, they will decide for themselves. Ifthere is enough unrest, the government will fall. That is the way It has happened throughout time. An­other country inciting the unrest is flat out wrong. Reagan continues to pour gasoline on the spark that Is Nicaragua. 
• Ronald Reagan does not supportgiving flnanclal aid to troubled American farm­ers. 
The plight of the American farmer has gotten so bad that distraught farmers have taken to violence to call attention to the problem. In the headlines recently, a man from Georgia committed suicide In an attempt to save his farm through his life Insurance. There have been murder­suicides involving bank employees trying to foreclose on farms. Why doesn't Reagan do something substantial to help these people? Good question. The Amer­Ican farm community Is the backbone of the nation. To Ignore their desperate cry for help Is a crime. Maybe Reagan should take some ofthe moneyspenton building nuclear weapons and build our farms back up instead. Or perhaps he should take some of that money going to Nicaragua and use It to help our own farmers, or divest the money from South Africa and Invest it in our farmers instead. Reagan continues to Ignore the plight of the American farmer. 
Ronald Reagan has been a popular president because he has told the people what they wanted to hear. Things like the war on drugs, an enlivened economy and simpler tax laws are well and fine, but greater problems exist. Reagan really concentrates on telling us all about the good things he has done but sidesteps the issues I have mentioned. Reagan sup­porters tell me, "Look at all he has donef" Fine, he has done a good job on a few things. I would like to tell the Reagan supporters, "Look at all he hasn't donef" Reagan's stands on the Issues I have raised are questionable at best. 
Well, there you have it. I am sure I will nowbe labeled a "commie-loving, idealis­tic, no-good, Massachusetts democrat". I have simply attempted to point out where Reagan stands on the major Issues ofour time". Ifall you "patriotic, realistic, loyal Republicans" can look at yourself In the mirror and say, "I love Ronnie despite his stands on the major issues", then your name truly does belong on the guest list at his coronation -oh, excuse me -in­auguration, In 1988. 
Tom Varnum is a sophomore in the College ofArts and Letters. 
Quote of the day 

"I'm not sure what will happen the rest of the season, but I do know that Notre Dame will be a good football team." 
Lou Holtz CBS Sports September 20,1986 


"ie~~_()_I_·Il__t r_rl_d_a_y-_Sa_t_u_ro_a_~_Sep_re_m_ber_26_-_2_7,_I_9_8_6_-_~ ge__
____________________________________________________ __ __ __ 9 
P.O.BoxQ 
Bad SYR experience is not reason to cancel all 
Dear Editor: 
Though I may disagree with many of the stances taken by students on articles they have written, none have yet annoyed me to the point that I have felt I should write back in response. Lou 5arabando's article on Tuesday did just that. 
I find it quite disturbing, first of all, that 

he based a major portion of his article 
on an argument with just one friend. I 
believe his name was Chris. Using Chris' 
views on alcohol, Lou then proceeded to 
hold the majority of this campus to the 
same view. I'm sorry to intrude upon his 
obviously cynical opinion of the "Domer 
mentality'' but there are many of us who 
do go to SYR's for reasons other than 
getting "drunk. sloshed, blitzed, 
whatever you call it" -as Lou's friend Chris 
so brilliantly put it. 
I am not saying that Lou's observations 

since his freshman year on SYR's are com­
pletely unfounded. Yes, there will always 
be a certain number of students who will 
abuse their privileges at SYR's, but I also 
k11ow that there are a good many who 
will not. 
I presume from the tone of the article 

that Lou has been only to one, or perhaps 
no SYR's. And if he has been to at le.ast 
one, this was probably in his own dorm 
as well. This extensive experience with 
SYR's then, does make Lou an authority 
on what occurs at "all" SYR's on campus, 
doesn't It? 
We are going to have a good time at 

SYR's this year. And no, Lou, we won't 
even "vomit" on your bathroom tloorl We 
are going, not all with the sole purpose 
of getting drunk. but rather to spend the 
time with friends, meet others, dance, 
and forget about the pressures of studies 
for an evening. 
Some of us "Class A jerks, " yes the 

"boys and girls" of Notre Dame, as he 
put it, do more with our weekends and 
SYR's than just look to them as a means 
to get drunk! 
Noella Menezes Lewis Hall 

Theology professor is not treated justly 
Dear Editor: 
I have been literally sick at heart since reading of the treatment that Dr. Bill Storey has recently received from the Uni­versity. While not pretending to know the details of how this situation developed, I know enough to judge that restricting Professor Storey's academic interaction with Notre Dame is inexcusable -and In­credulous. 
How can a professor who has given so much of himself to this University, and especially to the Theology Department, be so callously "waved off?" His gift of many years is being suddenly rejected, cruelly thrown back at him (and at his Creator). It is shameful to see how some can merely cease to remember. Gratitude and respect -virtues normally upheld In a moral community like Notre Dame ­have been conveniently bracketed In this matter. 
Recall that we are dealing with a won­derful human being, a brilliant mind. Dr. Storey Is a man truly Inspired by his pas­sion for knowledge, truth and spiritual fultlllment. And yes, Inspired also by his own love for the Church. Anyone who has 
taken his Church Evolution course has 
been granted the privilege of sharing In 
that wisdom and Inspiration. There are 
few professors who could trans(orm 
church history Into such a critically vital 
and relevant subject. Each lecture period 
there was an exciting and peculiar aura 
in the classroom: the past Church was 
hauntingly alive and impinging on the 
present. The course was an Intellectual 
and spiritual challenge, the "stufr' of an 
Ideal university education. 
Students who get to know Dr. Storey 
outside of the classroom discover that 
his devotion, compassion and Incredible 
insight are no classroom facade. His spirit 
of generosity and setness interest In 
others is rarely matched. If only more 
teachers shared his talent for engaging 
wit and provocative humor. I have never 
left disappointed after talking with him; 
the art of sincere and meaningful 
dialogue is not lost to Bill Storey. 
So, what has changed or marred the 
contributions and loyal relationship of 
this professor to Notre Dame -to 
humanity at large, for that matter? A 
public announcement that he considers 
himself gay and an atheist. 
I would be the first to admit that I have 
my own resolved problems with the issue 
of homosexuality; I cannot deny that I 
find it absolutely offensive to my sense 
of what is natural In the sphere of human 
sexuality. Nevertheless, even though I 
hold Dr. Storey in the highest regard, this 
claim of his being gay does not reverse, 
but rather expands, my understanding of 
him. He has also said that he is an atheist. 
Through a furrowed brow, I smile a little 
at this. While I do not doubt the sincerity 
of his statement as he made It, Professor 
Storey would be the first to encourage a 
classroom of students to question the 
ways in which the term "atheist" is in itself 
philosophically problematical. 
In other words, these two disturbing announcements do nothing to nullify the above panegyric to Dr. Storey. Moreover, they are no excuses for the ill treatment he has received. How can the Theology Department allow this to happen to a member, "retired" or not, of Its commu­nity? It is unthinkable, unforgivable. Basic human dignity and respect have been denied an Individual more worthy of it than most of us. This is a blight on the soul of the University. As a member of this community, it hurts. I would like to encourage Notre Dame to do the dif­ficult and courageous thing: be recon­ciled to your brother. 
Michon Marie Matthiesen Oraduate Student 
North quad drivers do not get money's worth 
Dear Editor: 

My name is John Gardiner and I am a Student Senator representing District 2. The dorms I represent are Stan ford, Keenan, Zahm, Cavanaugh, Breen­Phillips, and Farley Halls. I would like to call to your attention a problem which most people who own cars in North Quad have to deal with. 
Practically everyone has to park their cars in parking lot D-2. The problem Is that there are many pot-holes on the main drive of the lot as well as in Its entrance. Some of these pot-holes are substantially wide and I find myself driving through parts of the lot as though I were In an obstacle course. No only can these holes cause flat tires (which the University is not liable for), but they are also not very 
Ihe Observer 

P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
good for the car's shock aborbers. In ad­dition, with people swerving to avoid holes, there is an Increased chance of an accident occurring. 
I would appreciate It if maintenance would look Into this matter soon. I realize that the office must be swamped with work. but I think that this is a serious situation affecting all student drivers who park in D-2. Students are paying $25.00 to park and deserve at least a decently paved lot. 
John D. Oardiner Stanford Hall 
Underage drinkers are blatantly breaking law 
Dear Editor: 

In recent issues ofThe Observer, I have read articles written by Mark Pankowski in regards to police raids on parties to stop underage drinking. The articles are written In such a way that, by the time you finish reading, you get the feeling that you should feel sorry for the students who are arrested and totally deplore the law agencies involved for their dastardly actions. 
Let's face it! I like to drink a few beers myself, and I tried to get away with drink­ing before I was 21, too. But, like it or not, the law (in almost every state In the U.S.) clearly states that you must be 21 to legally drink any alcoholic beverage. This does not exclude Notre Dame or St. Mary's students. 
It is amazing that Legal Services direc­tors would actually advise underage drinkers of their rights so they would be able to continue breaking the law. Will their next step be to tell them how to commit murder and get away with it? The analogy may be a bit absurd -but that Is a glaring weakness in our legal system today -I.e., people getting away with a crime they have committed because of improper arrest procedures. 
I think It's time we quit degrading law enforcement agencies for doing their jobs. I don't always agree with the way that the police handle every case and I'm not saying they are perfect. But as the old cliche goes "if you're gonna dance, you have to pay the fiddler." 
So, to you underage students, I say, just as I had to accept the risks that go along with breaking the law -no matter how ridiculous it may seem to be -so must you. Someday, 1 0 or 20 years from now, when you own your own home and the neighbor's kids are havingan all-night beer bash, keeping you awake at 2 a.m., and possibly damaging your property and leaving beer cans and cups all over the neighborhood, you'll understand. 
So, let's all party hearty! But remember If you're drinking underage and you get caught -it is you who are in the wrong! 
· Richard P. Olisinski St Mary's College Staff 
SYR on birthday is not wasted getting 'wasted' 
Dear E:ditor: 
Lou 5arabando's Viewpoint ofTuesday, Sept. 2.3rd made something click when I read it. Usually when I read Viewpoln~ or Letters to the Editor, I blow off the possibility of responding because of lack of time or lack of the right response. This thne, however, I could not pass up the chance to write for two reasons. First. if Mr. Sarabando had his way, he would have the University put an end to SYR's and formals that the residence halls are graciously allowed to have. This would effectively end most of the University sponsored social life left on our campus. 
. \.. 

This would be a great tragedy to most students who don't believe in sitting In their rooms and vegetating away the whole weekend. Second, Mr. 5arabando need to be awakened to the fact that Notre Dame students are not "boys and girls" but responsible adults who are given the choice of drinking in moderation at SYR's or not drinking at all. Either choice is fine for me, as I do not anticipate "throwing up uncontrollably'' this Friday night after attending a St. Mary's SYR. You see, Lou, St. Mary's campus is alcohol-free and I plan on having a great time with my date, her friends, and some of my friends who are also going. Incidentally, Friday, Sep­tember 26 Is also my 19th birthday, Lou, and I don't plan on spending it "throwing up uncontrollably''. Don't most "boys and girls" in college get sick on alcohol on their birthdays? Last year I studied Emil on my birthday! Am I crazy, or what? Am I missing something, Lou? 
Amazing, huh? Yes, there are quite a few "boys and girls" who will attend SYR's this semester, drink responsibly, not get "whacked" or "plastered" (as your friend "Chris" believes you must to have a good time) and actually (God forbid) have a good time! 
Lou, you asked If you are missing something. I am telling you that you are. Don't miss your SYR because you are too embarrassed to walk through your messy "home" with your date. If she's worth anything she'll like you for who you are, not how clean your hall Is. Go, and make t_!le best of It, because if you let others decide· for you whether-or not you're going to have fun here at school you are In real trouble when you are pushed into the real world, diploma In hand, and are expected to make decisions that may last for the rest of your life. And you, If you are going to persecute yourself by drink­ing club soda (yecchh) at your SYR. go all out and drink Atka Seltzer. I guarantee that you will feel much better in the mor­ning. 
Chris Hasbrook Morrissey Hall 

Keep it short 
The shorter your letter to tbe editor, tbe more likely it will be printed The Observer. So wben you write a letter to tbe editor, please keep it under 250 words. 
The Viewpoint Department 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN, 46556 
General Board 
I 

Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar Viewpoint'Editor................ Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone 
Founded November 3, 1966 


WVFI-AM 64 will air live tomorrow's Notre Dame-Purdue football game. Coverage begins at 2 p.m. with "College foot­ball Today" hosted by Sean Munster and Brian Broderick. followed by "The Lou Holtz Show'' and "Irish Review." An­nouncers frank Mastro and Rudy Brandl will call all the action. The game will be rebroadcast tomorrow night at 9 p.m. -The Observer 
The RolfsAquatic Center will re-open on Sunday, September 29, at 1 p.m. The pool will then be open the following hours: Monday-friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. to 10:.30 
p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 10:.30 p.m. There Is also a family swim for family members accompanied by an NO employee on Sunday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. -The Observer 
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-Purdue game will be held tonight at 7 in Stepan Center. All pep rallies for the rest of the year will be held in Stepan Center. -The Observer 
Bamberger retires, again 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -George Bamberger announced his second retirement as manager of the Milwaukee Brewers on Thursday, saying he was 'just being realistic" after 41 years in baseball. 
"I said. 'What am I doing here? I should be back in Florida,· .. Bamberger, 6 I, said. The Brewers are in last place in the American League East Division. 
"It's a nerve-wracking job, .. Bamberger said. "Don't get me wrong. It has its good points, but I weighed it and I came up with more bad points than good points." 
It was Bamberger's third retire­ment as a major league manager. 

Stepan Center court time requests are now available In the Student Activities Office, third floor of LaFortune. Deadline for applying Is today. -The Observer 
Officials for interhall soccer, grad football, and women's lnterhall flag football are still needed. If Interested call the NVA office at 2.39-6690. -The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics Is offering two evening aerobics classes. "Late Nightat the Rock" meets every Sunday, Monday, and Wednesday nights at 10 p.m. at the Rockne Memorial. The other class meets Tuesday and Thursday nights at 8 
p.m. in Gym 1 of the ACC. Registration may be done at the NVA office. A complete listing of aerobics classes may be obtained by calling the NVA office at 2.39-6100. -The Obser­ver. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team posted the most lopsided victory in its history last night at Valparaiso. Art Lambert's squad cruised to three straight wins by the scores of 15-1, 15-2, 15-5. The Irish are now 1-0 in North Star Conference play. -The Observer. 
The Obsen>er Notre Dame:: offke. located on the third floor of Lafortune Studenl Center. accepts dassified ad\'ertisin~ from 9 a.m. until -1 p.m.. Monday throu~h friday. The Obsen•er Saint Mary's offkt·. lm:atc:d on the third floor of Haggar College Center. ac.:cepts dassifieds from ll::\0 p m. until 3 p.m.. Mon­day though Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is _-\ p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. either in person or by mail. Charge:: is I 0 cents per five charac­
Classifieds 
lers 

PAY TOP DOLLAR. CALL 2n-o548. NEED 2GA Pm TICKETS CALL 312· Neighborhood Study Help Prog111m '**** BIRHTDA Y WISHES ***** Thll 884-8328 COLLECT nMda tutorafor the following cent.,.: Texan Ia no cowboy ha'1 a ahapard
~N_o_r_tc_es___.,JI IL-_w_A_N_TE_o___.. 

NEED II PURDUE GAS MIKE 2535 
Marquetta School Tu•Thu 2:30-3:30 looking for hla alleap, 10 why don't NMded: 2 GAl for Air Force. Cell Call Davallt 13011 South Bend Houalng all you NO or SMC lamba give David WILL TRADE TWO GA Pm FOR TWO x2134. Authority Tue-Thu 4:00.5:00 Cllll John 
Flachar(3454) a call and offer him yourTYPINGWORDPROCESSING. TYPIST5-$500 weekly It hamel Write: GA AIR FORCE. CALL SHAWN (1114) lit 1245 Further quelltlona about tutor· wooll Hippy Blrtdayl D.G. JAREDCALL DOLORES 277 ..131. P.O. Box 1175, Ellublth, NJ 07207 484-5445. NEED 4 GA Pm TICKETS. CALL 277-lng for til... ICI'Ioola ahould ba dl­0HM. ractad to Tom Pigott lit 1718. NSHP­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY RA Ill BIG HUGS BABYSmER WANTED. 8-12 HAS. A HAVE 2 PURDUE GA'S.BEST OFFER commlttad to tha education of tha chil­J.C. TYPING AVAILABLE WK FLEXIBLE. 287-3315. 
BY FRI.CALL MARK 40111 DESPERATELY NEED 4 GA'A FOR dren of South Bend. 287-4082 
PURDUE GAME. CALL M.B. X3029 SKI ALL WINTER I Cryllll Mount.ln Ia HAVE 2 PITT GA'I, NEED 2 PURDUE IS THIS RUSSIA? ••• COMING SOON THANK YOU WONDERFUL WOMEN 
now hiring children'• aid lnatructora 

GA'a AND 4 ALABAMA TIX. CALL NEED 3 GA'S FOR PURDUE GAME. FOR THE SNICKERS Ill GO N.D. WO­Wordproc:eaalng reaumea, ate. for the winter ...aon. Salary plua CRUISER AT 1INII OR PAT AT 1712. CALL CATH AT 284-4232. 
MEN'S CREW Ill ARE YOU CHICKS Typeaat quality. 2117-8024. room 1 board. Contact Martha Mandai LOSING WEIGHT??? HEY FIDO, LET'S 

or Cava Hofacker lit (11111)378-2911. NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY 
NEEDED: AIR FORCE GA'S 284· MAKE IT 3 YEARS OF GOLD & KEEPWordprocelllng-Typlng BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME 4350,283-2344. ATTENTION OFF-CAMPUS STU-THAT CUP Ill KANSAS STATE COACH 
272--8827 NEEDED: TWO PURDUE GA'S. CALL IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS DENTS 
IS JAG I GO N.D CREW Ill ROB -3417 CALL JOE 239-7471 OR I NEED II PURDUE GA TIX. FAMILY There will bean oft-campua picnic tilla 
283--1131. THANKS ARRIVES FRI. DON'T NEED TIX TO BE Friday from 4-711 548381vy, which Ia 
COME TAILGAIT WITH SMC ALUM­JAMISON INN Pert time poeltlona HELPI MY FRIEND AND I NEED A RIDE right acro11 from tha aoc:c:er fllld.
TOGETHER. PLEASE CALL PAUL NAEGAIT WITH SMC ALUMNAEIII
evellabltl In houHkMplng and dftk TO ST. LOUIS THE WEEKEND OF Everyone come! FrM food end tone
£2247 OR 2317 THIS SAT. AT 10AM TO MADELEVA work. Plea11 call 2n-8182. OCT. 4 TO LEAVE FRI AND RETURN NEED ONE PURDUE STUDENT of fun awalt youl 
SOCCER FIELD (RAIN PLACE:HCC 

SUN. WILLING TO SHARE EXPENSES. TICKET NEEDED:ONE PURDUE TICKET,ANY TERRACE) GOOD FOOD-GOODATTENTIION: BREAKFAST LOVERS. PLEASE CALL DEBBIE AT 4304. Hl'a coming no mattar what, and WI TYPE,TOP DOLLAR PLUS PLEASE DANCE, DANCE, DANCE with tha TIMES! ........SMC ALUMNAE TAIL· PANCAKE BREAKFAST 9-27,AT hm, don't -nt to INve a HELP ME.CALL PETE AT 232-9534 AT NDSMC Council for the Rltlrded It .. GATOR••••••• ItAuguat. lounge, Prlca: $1.50 111 you Famala Roommate wented, Purdue guy In our room without aom• NIGHT OR EARLY MORNING. PLEASE Logan Center Frldey, Sept. 28, 7:30 to 
can Ntl Senior-Grad. Sha.-. 2 Bdrm fum apt body watching him. PLEASE, THANK YOU THANK YOU 10 p.m. (pick up SMC at Holy Croll 
Hay guya, Juat wented to amba11111 gaa htd. $345. 272--15114 after 7 So piNII cell Max lit 7:00). New and old voluntewa -!­
you. Red-keap up tha SoCII n•m•TYPING BY SALLY 

I NEED THREE PURDUE TIX·EITHER come! Chlck·KMP writing tha notaa-1\ave fun 
272-7573 Wanted-modlla for hair ahow lit Uni­

STUDENT OR GA. CALL DOC £3380. kid. Biondi• Don't fall ealaep In Fllm­VII'IIty Park Mall-Medium length to NEED 2 PURDUE GA'1. Will trlldl (Air PERRY "THE DANCING BEAR" 
X-ratld. Blltty-Adh.,. to your Celc ahort n11r, Slpt.2&29, Oct.s-8, Force GA'I) or pay CASH. Cell Mlka NMc:l GA'a for Purdua and Pitt. Cell DELECE IS AVAILABLE FOR DATES theory-aco.-. wall. Grenola-How'a Oct.1 1112. FI"II-CIII 277-4800 Ext.4U. It 277-37811 WITH YOUNG , HOT, STEAMING,
2n-11794. John Denvar? Get 111 of thl guyal O.K. SLOBBERING, AGGRESSIVE SAINT 
My bud such the dorkl Thinking ofLOST/FOUND pert tlma -11.-.1111 end bartandara 1KEEP THE TRADmON ALIVE NEED NEED 4 GA TIX FOR PITT -CALL ANNIE MARY WOMEN; "SCREAMERS" you. How about HYI1? EvarybodynMdld lit amltty'a coney lalend t.p, II AIR FORCE GA'S CALL STEVE PREFERED I BRING YOUR OWN
AT 27511 atop by end bug ma. Love, the
125 no. michigan, aouth bend. Muat £1117 MONEY. 
Devaman. LOST FRESH WATER PEARL ba 21. 
NEEDI 4 GA PURDUE TIX • CALL BRACELET NEAR FISHER, MOR­LET'S MAKE A DEALIII I've got two RENEE 2930 TOP QUAUTY "NOTRE DAME BEACH RISEY OR LEWIS ON SATURDAY EARN UP TO $8 AN HOUR AI 1 GA'I for AIR FORCE; I nead two GA'I CLUB" T -8HIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. 
for SMU. Let' I t.lk.... Call Dennla -HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR ALL
PLEASE CALL JENNIFER AT 3820. delivery driver you mullt hava your PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR FROTTAGE FEVER IS AT A CLIMAX! REWARD. own car. Houra ,,. ftiXIbll. PIZZA 4075 or 23S-50t5. HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! MORE INFORMATION AT 277-3132 OR 
HUT DEUVERY Apply lit 138112 DIXIE CALL TOM AT 1n4. 272-3132. Hay N.L.O., lt'l me P. Don't pick that LOST WATCH , VERY SENTIMENTAL WAY NORTH.In ROHland around the PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL b.-.ln plugl You know whet will hlp­GOLD (COLOR) CARAVELLE BY corner on MuiTIIy St. 3520 Halp GIRLS GIRLS GIRLS Don't forget to pan. Llt'1 have fun tonight and fer BUUVA, ENGRAVING ON BACK: To Thl Air Force won't be the only onea lltop by 4011 Howard on Saturdey to au.-. go for double flgurM at Stavenal St.va, love mom and dad, 1MH3 NMd II GA tlx for Purdue game. (NMd groundld In South Bend 11 I cannot wlah E.J. GORAK a HAPPY PIMHINowl PLEASE CALL STEVE AT 411511 WITH lit leallt 4 toglther) Will PlY big ISS. gat BIRTHDA VI You won't ba eorryl INFORMATION OR CONTACT AT 127 FOR SALE Cllll 29511 and Ilk for Mariti. four ND'Air Farce tlckltl. Happy B·O.y EJI Love-Marty, CB, end OBSERVER TAG • YOU'RE ITI 
PANGBORN... REWARD OFFERED I'd .-..lly llka to go home for Fall Mo IIIIII I NEED 2 GA'S FOR PARENTS FOR Brllk In aomathlng othar then 1 OK, MOM AND DAD. YOU BOUGHT
(· 
USED EQUIPMENT FOR SERIOUS PITT GAME. KEEP ME FROM BREAK­.....,... Slightly ln11na drumm• w111ted for THE SUBSCRIPTION, NOW LET'S SEE
' 
FOUND: CALCULATOR ON THE AUDIOPHILES ING THEIR HEARTS. CALL PETE PIHM call Rich complltely twitted perty bancl. Lit the HOW WELL YOU'RE READING WHAT : . SHUTTLE FRIDAY, 9-18. CALL Ph111 U..-r Autocorrelltor (nol11 ..-. AFTER 8. 2811--2348. 283-3482 mualcdo the t.lklng. Rick 1138orCzar YOU'RE GETilNG.... YOUR SON, THE ELIZABETH 284-5013 TO CLAIM. ductlon for allaourcea) • 1100; Audio 1142. YNhhhhl OKIE FROM MUSKOGEE. Pulae Digital Tlma Delay (to .-.produce 
NMc:l a... Purdue atudant tlckata. Cllll Loet: A light blue bookbag that Wll concert haH ambience; lncorporatea • K Gragg Rolli end Frank Parlgl
27a-2108 S$SS NMd 2 GA'a for Pitt. Cllll 2811--2912. '-t •22-18 aomawhere bat--. the 25 WltM:hlnnll amp. You aupply GOOD LUCK on y'all'a LSAT'a tomor· MCOnd pelr of apelkera.) -1200;
South dining hall and Flahar hall. It '84 SMC aluma return to the Dome. I NEED PURDUE GA'a.2n-1308 GREGG ROSSI • FRANK PARIGI: Ace rowII Be p.-.parld for 1 poet LSA T found call £1151 and Ilk for John. Hlftlr 110 Preamp (audiophile quality, NMc:l 2 Purdue GA'a. ass Cell 2n-LSAralll Your Buddlll, Pat, Matt, blah tomorrow night. Your good O.C. rack-mountable) -1150. Also hive 4752. Mllta, TITO, St.va, Diva
NEED 4-11 TICKETS FOR THE PURDUE (out of control) buddlaa, Mitt, HELP! I LOST MY FAVORITE ND .-.cordi (many digital and 112 apead 
GAME, PLEASES CONTACT PAT AT SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE rnlltera) and pi'H'ICordec:l claulcal NEED PITT TICKETS STUD OR GA • 1848 MATT GRACIANETTE: GOOD LUCK HALl TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE ca111tt111. Cllll 277-5112 or 239-7133. 1431 JON,-1428 TODD : WILL PAY ON MCAT'alll (Batter LiteThin Never) SMA~ANDHASSMALLHOLESALL ATTENTION ALL WOMEN: PATRICK
CASH or TRADE NEED 10 PURDUE TIX. MOM WILL OVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL FOR SALE HOGAN LEAVES PUBERTY TODAY BARB AT 1341 IF FOUND. I CANT'T One King 4B aymphony-quallty trom­Your Buddy, Pit. BY DEFAULT-IT'S HIS BIRTHDAY. FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT bone wHh F attachment • 1700 or belt My Mom'a never 11111 en lrlah gemal CALL 1712 OR STOP BY 248 ALUMNI, IT. REWARDIIIII Mrloua offer. One Olda tenor lltudent PIIIH Mil me 2 Purdua ttxll She'll NEED 3 Purdue tlx., STUD or GA. Hungry? Clll THE YELLOW SUB· GET HIM OUT OF BED, AND DO trombone· 1100. Call Kally HIVIFII It pay big SSI Kavln lit 4277. 
Cllll THE URGE at 287-58111. MARINE lit 212·HIKE. Delivery houra: WHATEVER YOU WANT. (AT LEAST SMREWARDISS Lolt Pentu K1000 239-5837 momlnga and ~·-Mondey ·Thul'ldey 5pm-1211m; Friday WISH HIM A HAPPY BIRTHDAY) 
.: camera In Hurley, Tueaclay, Sapt. 23. I HAVE 2 PURDUE GAl, BEST OFFER 5prn-2em; Saturday 5prn-1am; SUnday PIMae call Jenny It 218-2773. TV RENTALS • LOW SEMESTER LEAVE MESSAGE NMdedl 3 AirForce GA'•wlll pey. Cllll 4prn-10pm. NICHOLAS JOSEPH WIGGINS Till SMREWARDISS RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, CRAIG 2811 81te. P• x4180. 
your frland that I uld "HI" P.S. llovaFORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-511511. PURDUE GAl FOR SALE.277~ 

HELP! HELP! I AM WILLING TO DO your nama P.P.S. Ka.-.n uya "HI" Nlc:­Tlkln: Red Beckpack from South NEED 8 AIR FORCE GA'S; WILL TAKE ANYTHING FOR 4 Pm GA'S. CALL holaa Dining Hill; Wadi Lunch. You can FOR SALE NEED 2 GA'S TO ND-ALABAMA ANY PAIRSIII ... CALL 217·17115 MEII CHRISTY X3831 
keep lOCka but I deepem.ty need Ona GE Ught'n'!Euy Steem and Dry GAME. CAUL 1--404-4111-4614 AND CHOCOLATE-CHIP ... HAPPY 21ST naenand booQ beck for t111ts Friend Ironwith 1 fuiHID, colllbllbla Ironing ASK FOR JO£. 
BIRTHDAY ... LOVEt305

Mon. PIMM return to South Dining board, pad, and cover.· 125. Call Kally Hal or call Phil lit 218-4154. Havana lit 231-5137 morning• and at­NMd 4 Purdue GA'I ..John 283-1722 PERSONALS O..r Jecque, Heppy 111th birthday, 
To John my favortta domer"SYR". 

tarnoona. babe. !LOVE YDUIII XXXDOO-John. 
Love, U.. 

Save my U..lll Loet my ID with NY I nead 1 Air Force G.A. call Brian lit drtvora llacence and .-.gllltrlltiOn If EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT 1nl GUIDE TO GREENCARD FROM F1.Mi Youhoo, found PllABE cell Noll lit 272 • 13111. DESIGN : "NOTRE DAME I!IEACH VISAS. FOR DETAILS, SEND 11 (P&H) CucKOO! 
S.Ve Elton,

'' CLUI!I" T·SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL IMMIGRATION PUBUCATIONS, P.O. 
Hippy 2111t blrthdeyl Legal again lit

FOR ONLY 18.00 • CALL GREG FOR 3520 BOX 515te1, DALLAS, TX 75251. Dlll'llt brottw Patrick, 
lallt-aound llka tha 1nc:1 of good atudy

LOST· Lldllllllvar Agold DVF drua INFORMATION AT 277-3132. Thla wllh Ia for you. 
hablta? We'll -111 Lota of love,

witch In ACC Gym 1 Tuee. 4:15 NEED II GAl for AIR FORCE, OCT 18. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER AUQUOR, May the date of your birth Alroblca Cilia. If found pleall caH FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T .SHIRTS, 23S-5873 CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE be fun, ftllld with mirth. Buun 
. ' 
' Moira £12111. YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. GREG AT 272-3132. IN A PANICII Femlly coming In from May thl road riM t'meat ya; 
"SAINT" 

FOUND: One gold charm bracelet t. Jaraey and Ohio for PITT GAME-NEED May llfl keap you lltld. 
Hippy blrthcllyll Uva It up and party

twean Alumni and Dillon. Cllll Mark lit CAR FOR SALE '110 DODGE OMNI 024 SIX TIX-GMTUDI Steph 272-5417 Conaldlr your nineteenth 
hlrdyll Love ya,

171a for poaltlva 1.0. 2 door,ax~lant condltlon,gl"llt In Chrlltlan theology contrldlcta flllcltlltld. 
"FRED" 

anew and cold! 277-3182 I nead 4 Air Force GA'1. P1MM cell Dautaronomy 28; theological anti­,r Ann x284-5454 . Simltlam va. thl doctrlna of the May thl tlmea be trua grut; 
"l'llllrrectlon of thl dlld" t.ught by Let the gala not walt. 
Jeml• wak:oma back to SMCI Wa

NEED 2 PURDUE GAl CALL PAT MOO• JIIUI. Write: MlchMI, P.O. Bo:c 4-475, Your family 11 l'lere; 
mlllld you Iota! Lova ual
..____FO_R_R_EN_T___.II..___T_IC_K_ET_S____. 

283-3018. South Band, IN 41834 4475. Commence the good chear. 
Minnow Creak Farm, Bid end 8.-.ek­My big brothar and baby aliter hlva WOMEN'S SUPPORT GROUP, A tlndar cut of 11Hk, Walcome to NO Kathy and Pat. Uva It fMt, "Country with 1 Touch of Cllll", TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE. naver 111n Notr. Dame win. P11111 THURSDAYS, 3:30.5 P.M., UNIVER· A molllt alice of caka ... 
up for Mondey you'll be In Sunnyaldl.

Rocheaw, Indiana, loclltld 42 milia 255-1343 AFTER 5:30. ellow them their God-illvln right -Sail SITY COUNSELING CENTER. CALL Clllbl'ltlI IOuttl of South Bind on HlghWIIY 31. me two Air Force GAa or atudlnt tick· 239-7338.FOR INFORMATION. Rooma lvellabltl football wwkanda. I NEED a or 3 PURDUE tlckltl 111. Call Mark at 283-1542. God blasl CucKOO I Gild both of you a.-. l'lere. Love, Call1·223-8240 eftar 8 p.m. c~Mperat~~yl can Mlklllt 283-1155. you. Thank You St. Judi Crulear Marla 
The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986 -page 11 
Hurricanes rely on Irvin and Testaverde against Sooners 
Associated Press are designed to catch attention. ", remember the defensive On the field, he nashes past back didn't get a good jam on MIAMI The No. 2 Miami Hur­defensive backs and catches me at the line, he just brushed ricanes' most potent weapon touchdowns, 12 in his IS-game me as I went by," Irvin said. "It 
against No. I Oklahoma in their 
career. seemed like he might have been 
game Saturday figures to be their Irvin is only two short of Eddie looking into the backfield to play passing attack, with sophomore Brown's school touchdown-the run." wideout Michael Irvin the key reception record. receiver. 
One of those TD catches came The Hurricanes, especially Ir­Off the football field, Irvin is in last year's 27-14 victory over vin and quarterback Vinny Tes­the Hurricanes' flashiest dresser, 
Oklahoma, the Sooners' only taverde, are hoping that Okla­sporting a gold earring and defeat in a season in which they homa's defense continues to brightly colored shoes he admits 
wound up ranked No. I. orient itself to the run it sees so 
KICKOFF / YOUR FOOTBALL ---:-_ 
PARTY SEASON WITH~­
REASOR ICE, INC. 
1709 Werwinski 
PHONE 234·5309 
SPECIAL SQ# BAG 
•2.90 
•.· •. I • 
NUGGETS ....··· 
-.~ .... ~· ~-:·.· .·.: ~ •.::.:· ..• ; •'&'' •••·•• 
-

Effective Home game Saturdays only -with this ad only 

often in Big Eight Conference pass." 
games. Irvin agreed, but said that the 
But Testaverde knows the Sooners' defense will be only half 
Sooners are not likely to be as the battle. 
giving as last year. 
"They're better on pass "It's not so much what they 
defense this year than last," Tes­can't do as what we can do," Irvin 
taverde said. "They seem to be said. 'They haven't seen a quar­
disguising their coverages bet­terback like Vinny or receivers 
ter. But being a team that throws like ours. We believe we have the 
a lot, we have to feel good about hottest receivers in the world. 
going against a defense that's Nobody in the world can cover 
hardly been tested against the us one on one." 
Irish field hockey team plays host to Purdue 
By MOLLY MAHONEY To defeat Purdue, Notre Dame 
Sports Writer also must mount an aggres slve 
offensive attack that will improve 

The Notre Dame field hockey as the Irish take more shots on 
team will try to add a victory to goall:md draw more penalty cor­
Its 1·5 record when It defends ners to Increase the chances of 
Cartier Field against the visiting scoring. 
Boilermakers of Purdue Friday 
afternoon. The success of the team will 
depend a great deal upon the 

The Irish are likely to have a play of junior right link Benet 
battle on their hands as Purdue DeBerry, who already has con­
comes Into the contest with a .3-.3 tributed three assists and one 
record and armed with 1.3 return­goal thus far In the season. 
Ing letterwinners. Stopping DeBerry has an offensive as 
Boilermakers' senior captain well as defensive assign ment. 
Karen Moschetto, and her six ex­so she Is responsible for attack­
perienced senior teammates, Ing and defending Irish_territory. 
will be the key to a strong 
showing. "She attacks very well," said 
To accomplish this task. Irish Llndenfeld. "When she's drib­
head coach Jill Lindenfeld has bling the ball she's probably the 
stressed aggressive defense and fastest player on the team. She 
plain hard work. is a deceptive ball handler, with 
good stick work and body fakes. 

"We've been working all week She is exremely aggressive and 
on defense In the corners so that has one of the hardest drives on 
we don't give up so many the team, which Is why she's my 
(penalty) corners," said Linden-corner shooter." 
feld. "We also must work on The Irish will need DeBerry's 
marking closer, denying the passing and feeds to her forward 
other team the ball, (hitting) line but It will take a total team 
harder drives, and havingthe for-effort nevertheless, If Notre 
wards cut back for the ball with-Dame Is to be successful against 
out obstructing." the Boilermakers. 
r----------------,
I Celebrate Francis 1 I Weekepd of Reflection I I I
I RETREAT REGISTRATION I I I
1 Saturday, October 4 I 
II II 
Retreat: No Fram,s. No Boundari's • I / ~ The Call toGlobalmindedness 
I 
9:00am-2:00pm 
Led by: Tom Gedeon, SJ. Marieaa Starrie, CSJ 


Fee: $3.50 (htci.U.du itmc.h
I' 

(Deadline for Registration: October J) 
Center for Social Concerns 
239-5293 

Name
--------------------------,. 
Address
--------------------------,. 


Phone
-------------------------------4· 
Student 1-1 Staff 1-1 

Faculty 1---1 Other I I 
BUDWEISER-lNG Of' BEERS..ANHEUSER-!IUSCH. INC •ST. LOUIS 
The Observer 

Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986 -page 12 


APPIIoto 

the National League Championship Series last night behind the no-hit pitching ofMike Scott. See story on page 14. 
Notre Dame golf team tees it up against W .Michigan in dual match 
By ORLANDO RUBIANO Sports writer 
The 1986-87 Notre Dame golf team will tee it up for real Friday afternoon when it takes on host Western Michigan in a dual 

match  on  the  greens  of  the  
Moors  Country  Club  in  
Kalamazoo, Mich.  

On Sunday, the team then will travel to Zionsville, Ind., where the Indiana State Golf Champi­onship will be held. The Golf Club of Indiana will be the host for the .36-hole event which will field participants from all the col­leges In Indiana. The Irish last won this tournament which is being held on Indiana's best­rated golf course, In 1978. 
Leading up to the start of the men's golf season was the 58th annual Notre Dame Open which concluded two weeks ago. The 72-hole match drew 65 hopefuls, with only 10 spots open on head coach Noel O'Sullivan's roster. 
"The Open is not intended to be as a total tryout, but as a gauge to spot new prospects," said O'Sullivan. "Golf Is not just one four-round tournament." 
Indeed it is not but whoever does finish first In the tourna­ment would be very difficult to overlook. And this was certainly the case for Pat Mohan, who se­cured a spot on the roster with a four-day total score of 285. 
"Pat Mohan won the Notre Dame Open," said O'Sullivan, "and I must play the Open win­ner." 
Senior captain Chris Bona, who did not have a particularly good Open in shooting a .302, will be the number-one guy nevertheless on O'Sullivan's squad. The reason for Bona's po­sition, according to O'Sullivan, is simple. 
"Bona has lettered for three years," he said, "and most Im­portantly he has experience." 
Also returning this year is junior Rich Connelly, who finished a strong fourth In the Open with a total of 29.3. Rich has lf!ttered for two years, and was O'Sullivan's top prospect in 1984. Sophomore DougGiorgio, who did not play last year except in the last tournament of the season, has also made the top squad for this season after shooting a total of 295 in the Open. 
In the collegiate sports world, freshmen usually view the action much like spectators, from the sidelines. That rule, however, does not apply for freshman John Connelly. Aside from finish­Ing second in the Open with a nice four-day sum of 292, his golf talent has his coach singing his praise. 

"John was my top recruit this year, but he was probably a lot of people's number-one recruit on their list," said O'Sullivan. " Here is a_ guy who was one of the best golfers In Ohio, and If that wasn't cause enough to recruit him, the fact that he qualified as an amateur in last year's Western Open made the point moot. John Is, without a doubt, a true blue­chipper in every sense of the word." 
The big suprise of the Open was freshman Bobby Kloska, who finished third with a 292, but was edged out by John Con­nelly for second after losing the first hole of a sudden death playoff. For O'Sullivan, who did not recruit KJoska, the fresh­men's play came as a pleasant sur prise. 
O'Sullivan also said that he felt good about the outcome of the Open. Other players that made an impression included seniors Mike Culver and Tom Ryan, and 
junior 'Stormin' Norm Campbell. 
Those three will head 
O'Sullivan's blue-team (which play~ a schedule mainly com­posed of junior college teams). The coach concedes that his squad .is an Inexperienced one for the most part, but he believes they have the skill to shoot low numbers. 
This weekend, of course, will give the coach a chance to find out for certain. 

Ullye <ltoluninl Jnncttkt Jtouse "' 
$l.OOOFF ~ ' 
OUR SPECIALTY o~.~:~~, OVEN-BAKED ~~ APPLEPANCAKES 
Good thru Oct., 1986 Open 7 days a week at 6:00 
u.s. 31 North an Ro~land Ct\(r<W; from the Holida\· Inn} 272-7433 
With This Ad Limit 1 per person Limit 4 Per Coupon 

OCTOBER 
MALE 
i..onG siHYe Spart:smed Shirt 

SHIRTSIZ£: _xs _S _M _L _XL TEAM STAT\JS (If appropriate): OPEN _ CORPORATE-SCHOOL­EXACT TEAM 011 SCHOOl NAME 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
WAIVEII (MUST IE SIGNED)
.._.,...,.._._.....,..,..........-............_,_..._..,
..................,....._.__....,...,,...,.._....,.....,...._... •

..,....._.,_____....--.--..,............. ft-.....
·---·-....~-·-,.,_..,fit __._,..,._....._., 
___..,..,_.-..---·---·--·......­
___,......1111~·--.,--..........-........-. 

SIIMtU(Pwat'a...•.,....._-~~=---------algnnu,. If u...., tl) 
Invitation to Sacramental Preparation 
Initiation in the Roman Catholic Church 
Baptism, Full Communion, Confirmation 
Information Sessions on Sept. 28 
Sponsors: 7pm Library Lounge 
For baptised Catholics willing to journey with persons in our sacramental programs 
Baptism and Full Communion: 8 pm Library Lounge 
For unbaptised persons wanting to become a member ofthe Roman Catholic Church 
For baptised persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic Tradition 
For those wanting to know more about the Roman Catholic faith 
Confirmation: 9 pm Library Lounge 
For baptised Catholics wanting to celebrate the Sacrament of Confirmation 

Please call: Sr. Pat McCabe,C.S.C 
University Ministry 
'239-5242 or stop by Badin ofllca S..m·5pm 



. { 

The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986 -page 1.3 
Try your luck in Notre Dame-Purdue series trivia contest I 
1 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame and Purdue have met 57 times in one of the oldest intra-state rivalries in college football. To recognize this long and prestigious series. Univer­sity Food Services is sponsoring a Notre Dame-Purdue trivia quiz as part of its Monday Morning Quarterback Breakfast to be held Sept. 29. 
To enter, simply answer the questions below and turn them in no later that lunchtime Satur­day to the checker stands. Con­testants may enter as many times as they wish and all entries must have the contestant's name, address and phone num­ber. Winners will be announced at the breakfast. In case of a tie, a drawing will determine the win­ner. 
First prize is a $25 gift certifi­cate from Competition Sports Shop. Second prize is a pullover shirt from the ACC Pro shop, and third prize is a $I 0 gift certificate from Fanfare Sports Shops. 
Door prizes will be awarded at the breakfast. 
I . What trophy is presented to the winner of the Notre Dame­Purdue game? 
2. When was the last time Purdue played at Notre C.dme Stadium? 
John NICKOdemus might have still looked this good had it not been for all those hockey fights 
Wish him a Happy 
21st birthdaythis SUNDAY 

3. 
When was the last time Notre Dame went into the Purdue con­test ranked No. I? 

4. 
When was the last time both Purdue and Notre Dame ended the season in the Top 20? 

5. 
What was Ara Parseghian's record against Purdue? Dan Devine's? Gerry Faust's? 

6. 
In a losing effort against Purdue in 1967, Terry Hanratty attempted a single-game record 63 passes. How many did he complete? 

7. 
The longest fumble return against Notre Dame was by a 


Purdue player in 1966. Who was he and how long was the return? 
8. 
Who holds the best individ­ual game passing completion record against Notre Dame? 

9. 
Which quarterback-receiver combination had the longest scoring pass in the series' his­tory? 


I0. When was the first game between Notre Dame and Purdue played? What was the score, and who was the winner? 
I I. Which Purdue coach had the most victories over Notre Dame? 

EGG ROLLS Football Saturdays 9-3 Between Memorial Library and Peace Memorial 
sponsored by--Friends Of Refugees 

12. 
Name the player, the year and the yardage of the longest kickoff return for a touchdown in the series. 

13. 
How many games have ended in a tie? 

14. 
Who was the first quarterback in the history of Notre Dame foot­ball to defeat the Irish three times in his career? 

15. 
On September 25, 197 I, at Ross-Ade Stadium, Notre Dame scored on a blocked punt with less than two minutes won, 8-7, on a two-point conver­sion. Describe the extra-point play. 


Fallon 
continued/rom page 16 
One of the big changes Fallon has seen in tennis over the course of his career is the in­creasing competitive nature of the game. 
"In the old days, you played a match with the team and then socialized," recalled Fallon. "You'd go out with the coach and the kids would have dinner to­gether. You'd spend a day touring the other campus. 
"Today coaches don't want to socialize or have the kids so­cialize. I think a lot of coaches have gone overboard on that. Sure there's a mental aspect of the game, an emotional aspect to get the kids psyched out. That part has changed. It was a lot more leisurely 30 years ago." 
Even though he depricates his own ability, what Fallon has done is part of the Notre Dame legend. While Fallon's career victory total mark may some day be eclipsed (Fencing coach Mike DeCicco is closing in fast), the way he went about it both personally and in a situation contrary to his his sport may never be touched. 
Every other year, former tennis players come in from around the country to visit their former coach. He is that kind of a per­sonality. 
"He's made tennis at Notre Dame," said Ralph. "He's done a fantastic job. I'm amazed at the number of people that keep com­ing back. It's kind of a second family." 
Congratulations on all of your achievements, Coach. You've earned them. 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
that Is being counted on heavily this year is former high school all-American Linda Filar. Filar, who Is "sick and tired of being number-two" according to Ryan, finished eighth at Hillsdale with a time of 18:10. 
Other Notre Dame runners who will take part In the meet Include junior Nancy Loughlin, sophomores Theresa Rice and Terry KJbelstis, and freshman Wendy Murray. 
All the Notre Dame runners fig­ure to face tough competition In the meet. Last year's National Catholic Cross Country Cham­pions, VIllanova, will return to defend Its title, while Boston Col­lege will look to d~throne the Wildcats and take the team title. Both teams are ranked first In their Dlvlslon-1 districts and are among the top 16 teams In the country. 
Villanova placed Its top five runners among the first seven finishers at last year's Champi­onship, Including Individual champion Lauren Searby, an all­American. 
+ 


~-~-~­

The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986 -page 14 

I 

~ f 
I : I. 
) r'­
' l 
. ' 
,) 
~ 
i 
~ 
( 
j 
~ 
' l 
Scott tosses no-hitter as Astros wrap up divisio~ title 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Mike Scott pitched the first National League nine­inning no-hitter in three years as the Houston Astros clinched their first West Division title since 1980 with a 2-0 victory over the San Francisco Giants. 
It was the third straight shutout victory for the Astros, who will meet the New York Mets in the best-of-seven NL championship Series beginning Oct. 8 in the Astrodome. 
Scott. whose career was in jeopardy until he developed a split-fingered fastball last year. pitched the first no-hitter since St. Louis' Bob Forsch beat Montreal 3-0 on Sept. 26, 1983. On April 2 I, 1984, the Expos Dave Palmer had a five-inning perfect game against the Car­dinals. 
Scott's 13 strikeouts gave him 298 for the season, two short of becoming only the second NL right-hander behind Houston's 
J. R. Richard to strike out 300 in one year. Scott's previous total for three years with the Astros was 293. 
Scott, the major-league strikeout and earned run average leader, allowed only three base runners. 
He hit Dan Gladden in the back with the first pitch of the game and walked Chili Davis to start the second inning. The walk ended Scott's string of 27 1-3 in­nings without a walk. 
Scott got stronger in the late innings, retiring 19 straight bat­ters after Davis' walk until catcher 
Phil  Ouellette walked  with  one  
out  in the eighth.  Scott struck  
out  the  side  in  the  sixth  and  


added two more strikeouts in the seventh. 
In the eighth, he started the inning by striking out Bob Bren­ly, giving him six strikeouts in his last seven batters. He then walked Ouelette, but he got out of the inning by getting Jose Uribe on a fielder's choice grounder and pinch-hitter Mike Aldrete on a long fly ball to center field. 
Aldrete's fly ball was only the third hit out of the infield in the game and was the closest the Giants got to a hit. 
In the ninth, Scott closed out in spectacular fashion with strikeouts of Dan Gladden and Rob Thompson. Will Clark made the final out, grounding out to first baseman Glenn Davis, start­ing a team celebration on the first base line adjacent to the Astros' dugout. 
As the final out was recorded, mounted policemen came onto the field as the Astros' crowd cheered their division cham­pions from the stands. 
The Astros left seven runners on base in the first four innings until Walling broke the scoreless tie with his 13th home run of the season in the fifth, giving the Astros a 1-0 lead. 
Houston clinched a tie for the title Wednesday night when Nolan Ryan pitched 6 1-3 hitless innings and struck out I 2 batters in a 6-0 shutout of the Giants. On Tuesday night lefl-hander Jim Deshaies shut out Los An­geles. 

The Astros moved into first place to stay this season on July 2 I with an 8-7 victory over Montreal. 
Houston lost to the New York Mets 13-2 in their first game after the All-Star break but then won three in a row from the Mets to start their surge to first place. 
The Astros will face the Mets in the Astrodome in the first two games of the best of seven N L 
playoff Oct. 8 and 9. 
The next three games will be played in New York on Oct. I I, 12 and 13 and the final two games, if necessary, would return to Houston Oct. 15 and 16. 
The Astros won the 1980 divi­sion crown, their first ever, in a one-game playoff with Los An­geles after the two teams tied for the title with 92-70 records. 
The World Series begins Oct. 18 in the NL city. 







. . . 

, -"" .._ -• . -, --,_ I ' /" -, 
~~4tJil.:JL~................................................r.r.ld•a•y--Sa--tu•r•d•a•~-Se
..p•t•e•m•be..r•2•6-•2•7•'•1•9•8•6•--pa..g•e•1•5 
Bloom County Far Side
Burke Breathed 
rrs ~FflfNtfJ.I 

/

Otiii!R !{AS~ 4Ck:! 
·,,
lflH/1
~4ctt
4cir 
1'1ct: 

j 
-. 

J 
Campus The Daily Crosswrord 
ACROSS 1 Shed 5 City on the 
BrazosFRIDAY 

9 Off-shore 13 Winglike 7:.30 & 9:.30 p.m.: Friday night film series, 

"Quilombo", 1984, color, I 14 minuted, 
14 Bravery 

I I: 15 a.m. -12:.30 p.m.: Economics Dept. 
Carlos Diehgues, Brazil, Annenberg 
15 Itemized

Publick Policy Workshop, Speaker: Prof. 
Auditorium 
accountDonald Crichlow, ND, Topic: The History of 

16 In great 

Public Policy", 1.31 Decio 
disorder SATURDAY 
18 Thought: pref. 12:15-1:00 p.m.: t'orum,Speakers: Montey 

19 Loathes Holloway (Phil) Dave Ricchiute (Acct), Topi: 8:00a.m.-.3:00p.m.: Law School Admission 
20 In the arms of Morpheus

"Society and Ethics: The World of Business", Test Engineering Auditorium 
22 Fate 

soup and bread for $1 or bring brown bag. 
23 Drove down call 529.3 for soup-bread reservations, I 24 I 0:00a.m.: SMC Alumnae Tailgator, Madeleva 

25 MignonettesCenter for Social Concerns Soccer Field, if rain -Haggar College Center 
29 Connotation terrace, sponsored by SMC Student Govern­
32 Weld 33 Yemen port I 2:30 · I :45 p.m.: Lecture, Kellogg lnsitute, ment and Student Affairs 35 Biblical twin Dept. of Government, Speaker: Jean Elshtain, 

36 Illogical

Topic: "Impressions of Argentina:Visits with 2:.30 p.m.: Football, Notre Dame vs. Purdue 
37 Medieval 

the Mother of the Plaza de Mayo, 1.3 I Decio, 
helmets food and drink inappropriate 30 minutes after game: Mass, Keenan Chapel 
40 Stashed away 41 Raised 43 Move 

<Cl1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
3:00 & 4:00 p.m.: Cross Country National 
All Rights Reserved
44 Annoy

Catholic Champion ship, Burke Memorial Golf 46 Author Bierce Course SUNDAY 
48 Former 6 Commune in presidential Belgium
I :00 p.m.: Baseball, ND vs. Valparaiso (217 
candidate 7 Daunt inn.) Jake Kline Field 
50 Houston pros 8 Embellish 
3:30 p.m.: Philosophy Colloquium, speaker: 
52 Bow· 9 Tex. city Prof Stephen Brown. St. Bonaventure Univer­
53 Dealer in 10 Meal items I :.30 p.m.: Meeting, Black Cultural Arts Fes­drygoods 11 Rob't.­
sity, Topic: "Ockham On f"inal Causality-­tival, open to everyone, Pasquerilla West 55 Very silly 12 CrookedReconciliation of His Varied Treatments" chapel 
60 Wyatt of the 14 Goddess of West the hearth 4:00p.m.:FieldHockey, NDvs. Purdue, Carter 4:00p.m.: Ann Perillo, Guest Voice Recital. 
61 Joins in with 17 Electron tubes 63 Actor Ray 21 Evian e.g. 
Field for more information contact Eri Kuehner 
64 Make jubilant 24 Eastem rulers 
2.39-620 I, Annenberg Auditorium 
65 "The -is yet 25 Cuban dance 4:00 -5:30 p.m.: "Beckett's Plays" by Robert to be" 26 Supply weap-Cluchey, Washington Hall, free and open to 
7:00 p.m.: Information Session for R.C.I. A. 
66 Relax ons, old style
public 
SPONSORS, Library Lounge 67 Platform 27 Dining-room 68 Facility pieces 
9/26/86

7:00 p.m.: Pep Rally, Stepan Center 28 Workman in a
8:00 p.m.: lnfromation Session fro R.C.I.A. 
DOWN fish factory 42 Coffee 54 Breathinginquirers, Library Lounge 1 Poem by 301ngenuous maker sound
7:.30 -10:00 p.m.: Monthly dance at Logan 
Tennyson 31 Danish river 45 Draw a certain 56 SeinesCenter, all interested volunteers welcome, 
9:00 p.m.: Information Session for Celebra­
2 Leather flask 34 551 circle 57 Brainstorm Saint Mary's Students picked up in front of 3 Maiden 38 Declared to 47 Bullring cheer 58 Loch­
tion of Sacrament of Confirmation, Library
Holy Cro<;s at 7:00 p.m. 
4 One of three be true 49 Demi--59 Noble lt. 5 -in (attack 39 Refrains from 51 Honshu port family vigorously) harming 53 Costly 62-carte 
Lounge 

-----sABpresents 
Ambassador Ronauald Spasowsld 
'Liberation ofOne: A Journey to Freedom, 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiA Lecture by the Highest-Ranking Communist Offidal Ever to Defect to the iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii West 
Tuesday, Sept. 30 at 8:00pm Washington Hall 
----------Reservedseats $1.00 available Wednesday, Sept. 24 to Tuesday, Sept. 30 ----------• 




---~ ~­

'' 
'i 
i 
\. 
! . 
' 
1 ; 
'' i 
\ 
I! 
'l 
,\ 
:') 
J 
l 
~ \. 
' \ 
·.) ' \~ 
l'
:] 
; 1­
;l' '\: 
. ~ 
\·: J {; 
'l 
~­
;~ 
' \ 
Jl 
;·~ 
;~ 
1 
\ 
.1 
! 
l 

t 
r 
) 
~ 
j 
~ 
' 
,)
• 
f 
) 
) 
. ~-­
.t 
'{ 
r 
~ I, 
I" ~ ~~ 
.) 
, '· 
. 
" 
~. ( 
S~orts 

Young men's cross-country team has home-field advantage in meet 
By KELLY TOWNSEND 
Sports Writer 
As the rest of the campus gets ready for tailgaters this weekend, seven men will be out on the golf course. No. they won't be playing golf. They'll be competing In the 7th annual National Catholic In­vitational. 

Once again the Invitational will ,_ be held at Notre Dame this Friday with colleges such as Villanova, 

program needs. 
Despite the help of these new members, however, the Irish are still led by a trio of experienced runners. Junior Kathleen Leh­man, healthy this week after bat­tling the flu at the Hillsdale ln­
vititatlonal,  Is  the  team's  
time-trial  winner,  while  class­ 
mate  and  team  captain  Julia  

Merkel was the top Irish finisher at tilllsdale, placing flfth overall with a time of 17:51. That finish, Incidentally, was an entire 58 seconds faster than her finish of last year. 
The third Notre Dame runner 
see IRISH, page 13 

Boston, Marquette, St. Thomas, and the College of Notre Dame from California. The teams fea· ture some very good runners, but Notre Dame plans to stop that with a consolidated, team­oriented squad. 
"We've had good practices over the past two weeks," says Junior co-capitan Rick Mulvey. "We've gota young, healthy team and we're highly motivated." 
The team Is a very young with 
. ~. 

' . 
Friday-Saturday, September 26-27, 1986-page 16 
Fallon's honors are well-deserved 
When I began writing for this paper, one of the first stories I did was on the men's tennis team. The Irish had started off their fall season with a berth in in a tournament at Illinois St. on the last weekend in September. Dutifully, I called the team's head coach. Torn fallon, to find out how the Irish fared. 
Now, two years later on the last weekend in September, I find my attention turned toward the men's tennis team. Sat­urday at halftime, Fallon will be honored in a ceremony com­merating .his 30 years at the Irish helm. When next spring's season comes to a close, fallon will end his career. And what a career it's been. 
l 
I 

Dennis .l j 
Corrigan l 
Sports Editor 
Last season, fallon was named the Midwest Collegiate Con­ference's coach of the year as his squad finished with a 25-9, fallon's eighth 20-win campaign. He's won five Eastern Col­legiate championships. In 1959, fallon's third season, Notre Dame tied Tulane for the national championship. 
But perhaps the most eye-popping of fallon's statistics is his career victory total. Combined with his 69 victories in 15 years as head coach of the wrestling team, Fallon has amassed a total of 558 victories. That's a•most twice as many as Rockne, Leahy and Parseghian-combined. In fact, Fallon's 558 put him ahead of any lri~h coach in any sport. 
What's more ofa credit to fallon is that he has won despite adverse conditions. Anyone who's spent any length of time at Notre Dame is more than aware that it doesn't exactly have the ideal climate for tennis. Before the ACC was built, there were no real facilities for indoor tennis, but that didn't stop fallon. 
"We had no indoor facilities whatsoever," recalled fallon. "We had to put elastic garters on the basketball court in the old fieldhouse. The only time we could get in there would be seven in the morning or lunch if the basketball team wasn't shooting or when they were out of town . 
"We had a procedure where we'd have to put up our own nets and put up these plastic garters. We hoped we wouldn't trip over them and break our necks. And you know how fast basketball courts are. It was like glass or lightning on the court. And, it was raised so if you went out of bounds, you might break your legs. It was a real credit to the kids of that era." 
fallon also has continued to win despite a cutback in schol­arships. 
"At one time, we had four scholarships," noted Fallon. "And despite the poor coaching that the kids got, we managed to have some pretty good teams. 
"What has killed us in recent years is we only have two scholarships and most of our opponents have five. I said to Moose Krause (Notre Dame's athletic director at the time), 'how do you expect me to compete with these teams with five scholarships?' 5o Moose just moved his cigar from one side of his mouth to the other and said, 'great coaching.' 
"You can't argue with that kind of logic." 
But fallon is remembered by former players for more than just his coaching. 
"He cared about how we did as people," recalled Don Ralph, a second-team all-American on the '59 national champions. "He was interested in our total welfare. 
"I have a great deal of admiration for Coach Fallon. He symbolizes what class is. · 
"He didn't put a lot of excess pressure on us," said Ralph of fallon's coaching style. "He wanted it to be fun, too. We always had a good time on the trips, some of the best times I've had." 
see FALLON, page 13 


By THERESA KELLY 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team will compete at the National Catholic Cross Country Championship Friday af­ternoon at Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
After competing well at the Hil­lsdale Invitational at Hillsdale, Mich. last week. the Irish are looking to Improve even more on their home course. This season Is the first as a varsity sport for the women runners, who spent several years compet­Ing as a club in anticipation of gaining varsity status. 

As a club team last season, the Irish finished fourteenth In the National Catholic Champion­ships. This year, however, Notre Dame head coach Dan Ryan Is expecting a top-seven finish from his runners. His squad, he claims, is "ready to run" follow­Ing a good practice Wednesday. 
The vast Improvement In this year's team Is contributed to mainly hard work and new faces. Team members have consis­tently bettered their times by as much as two minutes for a three­mile course. In addition, fresh­men Linda Filar and Wendy Mur­ray have provided the good running talent that a building 
I three freshmen and two sop-I homores. The freshmen, Mike 
O'Conner, Mike Rogan, and Tom O'Rourke, really add strength to the squad. With co-capitan Jeff 

van Wle out with a strained Ac-·, hllles' tendon, a strong perfor-I ; mance by the freshmen could ' put Notre Dame at the top this i week. -1 
"We have a young team and excellent potential," says Coach Plane. "If we can get two men in the top ten it will be a good per­formance. To win It we'll need flve men In the top twenty-five." i 
With 190 runners competing in the race, placing flve runners that high could prove a little dif­ficult. However, one must re­member that this Is the Irish Cross Country team. Pride runs high and determination is strong on all teams and these guys are no exception. 
"We run as a team and every­one runs his hardest" says Mul­vey. "As long as we get people In the-top ten with an ND on their chest It doesn't matter who it is. I'd like to be in the top five, but as long as one of us is there I'll be happy." 
The heat and humidity will be a definite factor and the Irish hope to use it to their advantage. They also have the home field advantage, knowledge of the course and crowd support, which is a definite factor In this de­manding sport. 
The Invitational will start at .3:00 for the women and 4:00 for the men at the 16th fairway. The five-mile race will wind Its way through the golf course and finish on the 2nd fairway. 
After one more home meet, the Irish will go on the road to Terre Haute for the Indiana State Meet. 

Irish women looking to improve 

--------------------------------------~------­
~--------~~--~----~----~~~~.-.---~----.--------~---~~~----------------~---------.-----------~------~---------------------· ----------~ 
Notre Dame Purdue Notre Dame Stadium (59,075) 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue 

L -MICHIGAN 24-23 W -BALL STATE 20-3 Saturday, September 27, 1986 L -Michigan St. 20-15 L -PITTSBURGH 41-26
Time 
2:30 p_m. EST 

Sept. 27 -PURDUE Sept. 27 -at Notre Dame Oct. 4 -at Alabama Oct. 4 -MINNESOTA 
Notre Dame ·34, Purdue 21, two ties
Series 

Oct. 11 -PITTSBURGH Oct. 11 -at Illinois 
Last September 28, 1985 Oct. 18 -AIR FORCE Oct. 18 -OHIO STATE Purdue 35, Notre Dame I 7 Meeting Nov. 1 -at Navy Oct. 25 -at Michigan St. 

Game is sold out
Tickets 

Fazio and the art of defense 
Coach stresses fundamentals 
ABC Sports national telecast 
Nov. 1 -at Northwestern
Nov. 8-SMU 
Keith Jackson, Tim Brant and AI Trautwig WSJV-TV(Ch. 28)
Nov. 8 -MICHIGANNov. 15 -PENN ST.
Both teams unranked Notre Dame Mutual Radio Network Nov. 15 -at Iowa Tony Roberts and Tom Pagna .J 
Ran kings .i j 
Nov. 22 -at LSU 
WNDU-AM 1500 1.1 
NOV. 29 -at USC Nov. 22 -INDIANA 
l 
By DENNIS CORRIGAN 
Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz an­nounced the members of his coaching staff, the name that drew the most Immediate attention was that of Serafino Dante Fazio, better known as 'Foge'. 
Fazio had been relieved of his duties as head coach at Pittsburgh at almost the same time Holtz was hired at Notre Dame. It wasn't long before Holtz tabbed Fazio for the defensive coordinator's 
job. 
"I think I got here on December 9," recounts Fazio. "I had some personal obligations I had to take care of first, but Coach Holtz was very kind and told me to take my time and spend some time with my family. 
!'(My Initial reaction) was that I was number-one. Not only because (the offer) was Notre Dame -It's a thrill and honor to coach and be considered to coach at a place like here -but I had heard so much about Coach Holtz. I just thought It was a great opportunity for me to coach with him here." 
Fazio compiled a 25-18-.3 record In his four years at the Panthers' helm, Including records of 9-.3 

and 8-.3-1 In his first two years after succeeding Jackie Sherrill. More Impressive than his won-loss record was Fazio's defensive record. 
Under Fazio's guidance, the Panthers led the na­tion In rushing and total defense In 1980 and 1981 while the team wracked up Its second and third consecutive 11-1 seasons and top-10 ranklngs. Even when the team wasn't faring as well In his last two years as head coach, Fazio's defenses were some of the toughest In the nation. 
But for one brief instant, Fazio almost didn't get a chance to stand on the sidelines for Notre Dame. When spring drills began, Kent State, Holtz' alma mater, contacted Fazio about occupying the va­cancy In its top slot. 
"Kent State contacted me In March after we had already been through a week of spring practice," Fazio recalled. "They went through Coach Holtz, and I told them I wasn't Interested. But I guess they kept bugging him. (Holtz) said that after watching us practice for six days, to go ahead and take a look at it." 
Holtz, ofcourse, wasjoking, leaving the defensive coordinator's duties to what some consider the best defensive mind In football. 
see FOGE, pages 2-3 

1.:~ 


The Boo's Brothers 
In search of: The No. 1 fans 
By MIKE SZVMANSKI Sports Writer 
Just exactly who were those guys dressed In referee uniforms and sunglasses, one carrying a jam box on his shoulder, at the pep rally and at the Michigan game In the student section two weeks ago? 
They, of course, were the Boo's Bros., celebrating the "Year of The Fan." 
The Boo's Bros.-Louie, Duke, and Mallboxhead-are a three­man team touring the world during the 1986 football season, searching for the best college and professional football fans on earth. 
And right now, the Notre Dame student body and supporters are No.1, even though the Irish football team Is unranked. 
"We feel that the fans get the short end of the stick." said Duke. "With all the high pro salaries and the USFL trouble, If anyone should get high salaries It Is the fans. It Is the 12th man that makes sports most exciting. Each fan Is just as much a part of the game as the players." 
During the Michigan game, the power of Notre Dame's tradi­tional "12th man" was definitely felt In Notre Dame Stadium, and the Boo's Bros., who remain anonymous to "preserve the aura," were Impressed. 
"Notre Dame Is No. I because the crowd stood and cheered for the entire game," said Duke, "and not one fan left after the final field goal was missed. No one budged In the face of defeat. 
see BROS., pages 2-3 
Foge Fazio -"We want to play with reckless abandon." 
t 

( )ppont.•n t\, ( ·orrlt.'r · 
Boilers' Woodson talks on field 
By SCOTT STARR 
Purdue exponent 
In the often vicious game of football, defensive backs are often soft~spoken. But when he's on the field, Purdue cor­nerback Rod Woodson's actions are anything but quiet. 
Although he has been in the spotlight ever since he was named All-State at Snider H.S, Ind., Woodson is really under the gun In this his senior season. 
"We're expecting big things from Rod this year," says Purdue head coach Leon Burtnett. "There's no doubt he's a leader on this team." 
Woodson says he does not feel any pressure as one of the designated leaders on and off the football field. As one of seven seniors on the '86 squad, he says the team needs leadership not only from him, but from the other six as well. 
What has attracted more attention to Woodson this season Is his movement from free safety to cornerback. Even though he Is changing positions, Woodson still has been named to numerous preseason all-America polls. 
According to Woodson, the move was a good one for the team. "The coaches think so, and I respect the coaches' judgement." 
Burtnett says Woodson is Improving every day at his new position. 
"I don't think there is any doubt he has strengthened the secondary," the coach says. "It's put Rod in a better position to play on each play. 
'Tm sure (the move) has taken something away from us run-support wise, but it's added a lot pass-support wise." 
Mike Weaver, Woodson's partner at the corner and a close friend. says he has no problem playing next to a potential superstar. 
"You can't look at him like a god." Weaver says. "He puts his pants on one leg at a time like everybody else. 
"I don't want to take anything away from him, though. He Is a great athlete." 
Woodson's career statistics support Weaver's claim. Not only has he been second on the team in tackles for the past two seasons, but he needs only .32 solo tackles to become Purdue's career leader In that category. 
'Woodson does not limit his athletic career to football alone. He Is also a three-time Big 10 55-meter hurdles champion. He even was named all-conference in basketball while In high school. 
When placed against each other, however, Woodson chooses football as his favorite sport by far. "I've grown up playing football. the other sports are just secondary," said Woodson. "I like the challenge of having to react to the receiver." 
React he does, according to Burtnett. 
"You don't see a defensive back that hits with the intensity of a Rod Woodson," Burtnett said. "He just plays hard. 
"If everyone would give you the effort of a Rod Woodson 
you would have a great football team." ' 
Praised as he is, Woodson admits he sometimes finds It diftlcult to maintain a 100-percent concentration level during practice. 
"I think it's a little laziness on my part,." he said. "But when it's time for the game, I know I'll need to tune it up." 
Weaver realizes he will have to turn up his intensity level as well. It will not take a brilliant quarterback to realize he should throw away from one of the top-rated cornerbacks in the nation, and as a result Weaver will see plenty of balls coming his way. 
"The ball will probably come to me a little bit more -at least for a little while," Weaver says. 
Although his senior season has barely begun, Woodson has high hopes for his future after Purdue. The NFL would be a nice place to start. 
"I think that's every player's dream," Woodson says. "''d like to play there for a couple of years. That would be my dream." 
,. 



continuedfrom page 1 
"It was unbelievable. Girls were crying. We have partied with some real nuts, but the Irish stu­dent body is as tough and wants to win just as much as the team. We challenged them and they carne through." 
The Boo's Bros. lived the com­plete football weekend, making an announcement at the pep rally before the game, camping out at the Stadium after visiting Senior Bar and hittingall the tall­gaters for a full four hours before the game. They even made an appearence at Bridget McGuire's, dedicating their new hit song to the fans, which Is sure to rise on the charts. 
The Boo's Bros. have a rigorous schedule, attending a major col­lege game and a professional game every weekend, including Monday Night Football. They were In London for the Bears­Cowboys game and the Kickoff Classic with Alabama and Ohio State. They were In Columbus, Ohio, last weekend for the Ohio St. -Colorado game. 
"The travelling is tough," said Louie, "but we love It and it keeps us in shape." No doubtthat some of those roadtrip blues are com­forted by their officially endorsed beer -Stroh's. 
Along their trek across the country, the Boo's Bros. have at­tracted media attention, Includ­Ing newspaper reporters, local television shows, and the CBS News with Dan Rather. WNDU's own Mike Collins did a spot on them last week. 

The Boo's Bros. have Introduced the "Penalty Pal," a yellow penalty flag bearing the five­finger gesture. Fans can wave the flag for penalties or for any dis­approval or protest. to actively help their team to win. 
"Use ofthe Penalty Pal is not con­fined to football games at the "At a Wisconsin game a few years ago, AI Toon was interfered with in the end zone." said Duke, "and the call was not made. It cost Wisconsin the game and a bowl bid. I wish I would have had a Penalty Pal to throw at that game. 
"We were watching public televi­sion, being the knowledge­loving people that we are, and the Idea came to us (after recall­ing the Wisconsin game.) 
"The Penalty Pal causes con­cern," continued Duke, "since colleges do not have the Instant-replay option: It says I am watching the game, and leave my team alone." 
"The five-finger gesture represents thumbing your nose at anything against your team," said Louie. "It is also a good sign to give to the team you beat, the losers, which is radical, but so are we. All in all, it says boo. 

"We wear referee uniforms be­cause they make all the deci­sions. Boo's Bros. uniforms are symbolic of the fan's power." 
A Boo's Brother Is not immune to danger on a World Tour. "In fact, Mailboxhead received his name because he Is the only human ever Federal Express·ed Overnight," said Louie. "We were mailing out Year-of-the-Fan in­

------~~..----~--------~--------~----~.-------------------------------------~--~------~----------------~------------~------------------~--~------------------­
Weekend Edition, September 26-27, 1986 

The otmrver/File Photo 

formation, and somehow he was accidentally mailed to Topeka." This is rough business indeed. 
The Year-of-the-Fan trophy, the coveted six-foot "Fannie," will be awarded to the best college fans at the Rose Bowl, and to the best pro fans at the Superbowl. 
Notre Dame's closest competi­tion for the award is the Univer­sity of Alabama, and the Boo's Bros. will be at Birmingham next weekend to see the Tide play the Irish. 
"Alabama was awesome at the Classic, and we want to see them and Notre Dame fans In action together," said Louie. So Notre Dame must not only compete on the gridiron but In the stands as well this season. 
Foge 
continuedfrompage 1 

"Coach Fazio is an outstanding football coach," says Irish captain and Inside linebacker Mike Kovaleski. "It'sjust a great pleasure to be able to have the opportunity to play for him. I've learned a lot of defensive techniques from him. I couldn't say enough about the defensive mind that he does have." 
"I don't know about that," says Fazio of Kovaleski's compliment. "I've been very fortunate to coach with a lot ofsuccessful coaches who have stressed a lot of things that I've believed in. I've been blessed with a lot of outstanding football players, both physically and intelligence-wise. I've also had a lot of good guys to work with. 
"I don't think I know anything more or less about football than anyone else. It's still a team game, the offense is going to help the defense, and vice versa." 
But that's only a small part of Fazio's defensive philosophy. On defense, Fazio stresses fun­damentals and Intelligence. 
"Number one, we're trying to useas manydifferent fronts and coverages as we possibly can," says Fazio. "However, we want to be a good technique team. We want to be really, really aggressive. We want to be sound. We'll eliminate things if our players can't adjust to them. 
"We want to try and give them as many different looks as we can up front and also disguise the coverage. I believe you have to do that nowadays. 
"Everything being equal," continued Fazio, "I believe that the teams that are sound fundamen­
tally and pursue to the football in correct spob arc going to be successful. 
"The most important thing is that we want to play with a lot of intelligence. We want to play with a reckless abandon, but we still have to be intelli­gent." 
As a former head coach at a major program, many questioned if he would bring his own defensive ideas to Notre Dame, or whether he would work within the scheme of Holtz. 
"It's a combination," answers Fazio. "I talked to Holtz at length about his philosophy before I I took the job, and I knew what type of defense he had at Arkansas. A lot of things he did with our basic fronts and our basic stuff were the same things that he has been involved in before. He was an outstanding secondary coach at Ohio St., so 1 knew about his defensive philosophy -be very aggressive, put it in the right spots, be sound, try to contain those people that are most danger­ous. 

Foge Fazio 

"That's basically what we try to do. We haven't had a problem at all with it. There are a lot of suggestions, even specific suggestions, that he passes down, and we incorporate them because our philosophies are so much alike." 
Another question concerning the defense was whether or not Holtz would totally turn over the defensive reins to Fazio so that (Holtz) could con­cern himself only with the offense. 
"No, that's not true at aiL" Fazio says. "He's come into our meetings, and down to our end of the field. He's helped out in specific areas. I know he's helped coach the defensive backs, the linebackers, and made suggestions on pass rush­ing techniques. 
"Naturally he calls the offensive plays so he has to stay down there a lot. He's been with us and I think our players realize that it's great to have the head coach down there too." 
Although Fazio was his own boss at Pittsburgh, he says becoming an assistant coach hasn't been much of an adjustment. 
"Naturally it's great to be a head coach, especially at your alma mater, Pittsburgh," says Fazio. "But I was an assistant coach for 16 years, I was a coordinator and an assistant head coach so Ididn't see any major adjustments. Maybe because you're at Notre Dame, it's such a family-oriented place, It's a special place. 
"When you're a head coach, there are so many administrative things you have to do, things away from football," says Fazio. "It's very, very frustrat­ing and tough to get involved in one phase or the other. <At Pitt) I tried to get involved in the offense because a lot of major decisions are made over there. I did involve myself in the offense as much as I could, but the last year I involved myself mostly with the defense and left the offense to 
the offensive coordinator." 
While playing linebacker and center for the Pan­thers, Fazio was a teammate of someone else who has since gone on to earn coaching fame-Chicago Bears' head coach Mike Ditka. And, yes, all the stories about the ultra-intense Ditka are true. 
'Tm in Ditka's book," jokes Fazio about. the recently-released autobiography. "What a great competitor, the most intense, competitive guy in practice and in a game. Once, he hit (a teammate) in the side of the head. It could have knocked him out. 
"He almost got me one time on the kickoff. He was going around, slapping guys on the helmet to fire them up, (because) the other team hadjust scored a touchdown to get back in the game. I saw him coming, and I knew what he was going to do. He hit one guy in the helmet and I said holy .... So I ducked." 
Fortunately for the Irish, Fazio survived. 

James Medlock 

ajor ConferenceS 
••• • • • • (.864) ••••• • • • (.853) ....•• •·• •••• •• (.800) 
• • • • •• • (.676) •• • • • • ••• (.667) ••• • •••• • • •• (.643) 
••••• • •••• •••• • •••• (.628) 
1887-1985 Observer Graphic/Mark Weimholt 
Time Capsule 

Boilermakers pull off upset 
Purdue halts win streak in '67 
By MARTY STRASEN 
Ao;si.o;tant Sports F.ditor 
Heading into Lafayette in late September of 1967, the top­ranked Irish were favored by 13 points over eighth-ranked Purdue in a much-awaited football showdown. 
After a classic battle, however, the Boilers became better known as the 'Spoilers' around the Notre Dame campus, as they rallied late in the game to pull out a 28-21 surprise victory. The win marked the first time a team had beaten the Irish since Michigan State had done it two years earlier, in 1965. 
The biggest crowd ever to see a game at Purdue's Ross-Ade Stadium (62,316) saw sophomore quarterback Mike Phipps connect for a 31-yard touchdown pass to Bob Baltzell late in the fourth quarter to break a 2 1-21 tie and seal the victory. The faithful then proceeded to practically tear up' the stadium in a post-game victory bash. 
The lead changed hands six times in the contest, first belong­ing to Purdue when fullback Perry Williams bullied his way into the endzone from I0 yards out. After the kick failed, Irish quarterback Terry Hanratty gave Notre Dame its first lead, 7-6, on a one-yard sneak. 
Hanratty attempted a school-record 63 passes in the game, completing 29 while giving up four costly interceptions. 
Williams once again plunged over the line in the third quarter for the Boilermakers, giving them a 14-7 lead with the help of a two-point conversion from Phipps to end Jim Bierne. 
Bob Blier tied it up heading into the final frame, pushing his way up the middle from the one-yard line after an impressive Irish drive. 
The quarterbacks then exchanged touchdown tosses to preserve the tie until the late-game Purdue fireworks, as Phipps hit Leroy Keyes for an I 1-yard score and Hanratty pitched to Paul Snow for a 27-yard touchdown. • 
After the Boilermakers took the lead, Notre Dame managed to get to within 14 yards of a potential tying or winning score before losing the ball on downs. 
With that upset win, the Boilermakers scalded away any Notre Dame chances of a national championship, as Ara Parseg­hian's Irish went on to finish the season with an 8-2 record. 
, 
' 
-~--------------~·--------------~--------------------------------~----­
Weekend Edition, September 26-27, 1986 
'' 
··. 

I 
j 
l 
been Impressive, although his Inexperi­Moltz "Woodson obviously has very good we've gone to the point where we have'
By P~TE G~GEN 

Assistant Sports &titor ence does show up In the Interception hands. And when he's In the football to throw the football too much." column. game, It also helps the other receivers
J 
\ because he draws a lot of attention." Tailback D'Juan Francisco should see his I I Once again, Head Coach Lou Holtz will In two games George has completed 51-first action of the season after missing 
try to get that elusive first victory at Notre of-90 passes for 489 yards and three Holtz said that even though the Purdue the first two games due to an injury. The ! Dame. touchdowns. But he has eight Intercep­running game has not been effective, his offensive line, though, will be hurt on the l tions, five of them In the 41-26 loss to team must stop the run so that the Boiler­left side. Tackle John Askin is doubtful l Holtz has the dubious distinction ofbeing Pittsburgh. makers cannot mix the run and the pass. with a knee Injury, and tackle Tom Rehder I 
only the third coach this century In Notre Is bothered by sore knees.l Dame historyto start the season 0-2. This "Jeff George Is an outstanding quarter­"Burtnett is an lntellegent coach, and I'm 
The Purdue defense has taken on a youth­


'l \ could be a good or a bad omen for Holtz. 
hac~" noted Holtz. "He has a quick sure he'll establish the run along with the ful look due to graduation and junior col­
release, and he throws the ball very well. pass," noted Holtz. "If they can run the
When Hugh Devore did It In 1945, his lege transfers. Woodson leads the sec­

team only won two games all season. But Pittsburgh did put some presure on him, football, It will be exceptionally difficult ondary, while a trio or linebackers -Fred 
when Dan Devine's 1978 squad started on Notre Dame. 
Strickland, Kevin Sumlin, and Tony Visco slow, It won eight of Its last nine games have combined for 45 tackles In two 

and played In the Cotton Bowl. "We haven't been able to pressure the games.
passer very much. We've challenged our· Patience Is beginning to wear thin as the defensive linemen, and this Is going to "I know last year they had quite a few 
seniors on defense," said Holtz.·"but this

entire team would like to notch that first be a big challenge for them to put pres­
sure on the passer." defense Is much more impressive thanvictory under Holtz. And there never has any defense I've seen at Purdue Univer­been a better opponent to do that against 
sity."

than Purdue. The Irish defense will be led by tackle 
Wally Kleine, Inside linebacker Mike The game marks the first time since 1982 Kovaleski, and cornerback Troy Wilson. that the Boilermakers will take the field Tackle Robert Banks is questionable with in Notre Dame stadium. Notre Dame won a pulled hamstring, as Is linebacker 
that last home game, 28-14. Cedric Figaro with a sprained ankle. 
The Irish have failed In their last two con­The Irish carefully watched Pittsburgh's tests to win the Shillelagh, the cane given pass rush, which caused two fumbles and 
to the winner ofthis annual meeting. They played a part In the five Interceptions last lost to the Boilermakers, 2.3-21, In the week. Pittsburgh relied on quickness and Hoosier Dome dedication game, and last technique to reach George, and blitzed year they were whitewashed In West him to a lesser extent. Lafayette, .35-17. 
But Jim Everett. the quarterback which Notre Dame's offense vs. Purdue's led Purdue to both victories, has defense: graduated. Still, Purdue head coach Leon and he did throw five Interceptions. But
Burtnett has molded a team with a stingy The question in this battle is not so much
that can happen to a young man.
defense, strong special teams and a whether Purdue can stop Notre Dame, but Rod Woodson freshman quarterback sensation. whether Notre Dame can quit stopping
"He didn't throw the Interceptions be­Despite the high scoring of the Pittsburgh
Itself. 

cause he doesn't have an awful lot of nat­game, the defense allowed only two sus­"When you look at (their talent), plus the ural talent or doesn't have a natural knack tained offensive drives. And nnrch to the 
fact that they've beaten us the last couple The Irish have been turnover-prone at the
to be a great passer." dismay of Notre Dame, the Purdue 
of years, they're going to be ready to play most Inopportune times. Last week they defense is allowingjust 75 yards a game a football game," said Holtz. "But just fumbled at the three-yard line and were
Burtnett has fashioned his offense on the ground.
based on yesterday's practice I think Intercepted In the closing minutes.
around the pass. Of the 267.5 yardsNotre Dame will be ready to play also." 
average offense per game Purdue has, The key for the Irish rurming game is in 
Aside from the two Interceptions, quar­
only 16.5yards have come from the rush. the trenches. The offensive line needs to 
After losing their second heartbreaker of terback Steve Beuerleln continues to rack
The Irish secondary, which still does not execute as it did on tlw fourth down play
the season against Michigan State last up Impressive numbers. Last week he
have the services of Mike Haywood, will in the fourth quarter of the 1"1ichigan State 
weekend, the Irish will be looking to be completed 19-of-.36 passes for 259 yards
have a busy afternoon. game.
ahead on the scoreboard before the game and one touchdown. comes down to the wire. "It's just hard to overpower and muscle
George's top receivers are tailback Jerry 
Holtz, though, Is conscerned about the a team running the football on "' consis­Chaney, who has 15 catches for 1 01 running game. The team was unable to tent basis," noted Holtz. "You have to beyards, and flanker Lance Scheib, who has
Purdue's offense vs. Notre Dame's to establish any threat on the ground and able to block them up front and you have 
10 receptions for 1.32 yards and three
defense: finished with only 82 net yards against to get some movement from your tail­
touchdowns. Due to Injuries, all-America Michigan State. back. They have to make yardage after The freshman quarterback sensation cornerback Rod Woodson has appeared they get hit. mentioned above Is Jeff George. H.e beat as a receiver. · "If you are ever going to be a good foot­out junior Doug Downing and freshman ball team, you have to be able to run the "We have backs that arc capable of doing Jeff Huber to lead the Boilermaker's at­"It gives you an awful lot of problems football," Holtz said. "Now you've got to that. and they will do it. It's just that last tack. Through the first two games he has because they spread the people out." said be able to throw the football as well, but Saturday they did not do it." 



other words, it isn't enough to pick the winner or a given game. The person must pick the winner and give the underdog points. Home team is in CAPS.  Marty Burns Asst. Sports ~ltor 15-12·1 .556 (last week: 8-6-0)  Mike Szymanski Sports Writer 14-1~-1 .519 (last week: 7·7·0)  Dennis Corrigan Sports ~ltor 13-14-1 .481 (last week: 7· 7-0)  Marty Strasen Asst. Sports Editor 10-17·1 .~70 (last week: 5-9-0)  Andrea LaFreniere SMC Sports Editor 10-17-1 .370 (last week: 7-7-0)  Tom Fallon Guest Celebrity 11·16·1 .407 (last week: 6-8·0)  Katie Pampel Random Student 10-17-1 .~70 (last week: 5·9·0)  
MICHIGAN over florida St. by 9 Baylor over Tf.XAS Tf.CH by 9 Arizona over COLORADO by 9.5 IOWA over Texas-f.l Paso by 28 Nf.BRASKA over Oregon by .36.5 AUBURN over Tennessee by 9 Oklahoma over MIAMI (FLA.) by 4.5 MARYLAND ove North Carolina St. by 15 Georgia over SOUTH CAROLINA by 9.5 Washington over SOUTHE.RN CAL by 5 florida over MISSISSIPPI ST. by 5.5 T~ ABrM over So. Mississippi by 15.5 ARIZONA ST. over Washington St. by 16.5 NOTRf: DAMe over Purdue by 16  Seminoles Bears Buffaloes Hawkeyes Ducks Volunteers Sooners Terps Bulldogs Trojans Gators Aggles Sun Devils Boilers  Wolverines Bears Wildcats Miners Ducks Volunteers Sooners Wolfpack Bulldogs Trojans Gators Aggles Cougars Boilers  Wolverines Bears Wildcats Hawkeyes Comhuskers Tigers Sooners Terps Bulldogs Huskies Gators Aggles Sun Devils Irish  Wolverines Red Rz:lders Wildcats Miners Ducks Volunteers Sooners Terps Bulldogs Huskies Gators Aggles Cougars Irish  Wolverines Bears Buffaloes Hawkeyes Ducks Tigers Sooners Terps Bulldogs Husk.les Gators Aggles Sun Devils Irish  Wolverines Bears Wildcats Hawkeyes Comhuskers Tigers Sooners Wolfpack Gamecocks Huskies Gators Aggles Sun Devils Irish  Wolverines Red Raiders Wildcats Hawkeyes Ducks Tigers Sooners Wolfpack Gamecocks Trojans Bulldogs Aggles Sun Devils Irish  
-~----1----.......... --­ ... ­., --~----7>":(_~~~ 0).-_~~~ • .-.­-~--:-~;~~""-~-~-~ \~-= -~~~----_r~---~~~~~t~~-~ ~-"U_,·-..~ :_·  ..  
.)  4  




I 
l 
j 
l 

oes on. 
Half-time: 
Sounds of the 50s 
Entrance Runaround Sue Saxaphone feature Tequila Drill/Dance At the Hop 
for nation's oldest collegiate marching band 
Jeanine Powers 
features writer 
If there is one football team in the country that needs no help from a band -either to stir the spirits or fill the stands -it is Notre Dame's Fighting Irish. 
There has always been a close and af­fectionate tie between the Notre Dame athletic department and the Notre Dame Bands. Even Knute Rockne played flute for Notre Dame long before he thought of coaching. Former athletic director, Ed­ward "Moose" Krause, spent some years studying music before he put his clarinet on the shelf to devote himselfto athletics. 
A former captian of the football team says, "When I was a player, I knew the band got the adrenalin flowing in the team. I didn't realize how much they con­tributed to the whole game until I became a spectator." 

Historically, the band has a rich tradi­tion of its own, generations older that the football team and nearly as old as the University itself. It has been active con­tinually since 1846and claims, with some 
justification, to be the oldestcollege band in the nation. It was among the first to use marching formations and to spell out words on the football field. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish has al­ways provided music and pageantry for the Notre Dame football games. It was on hand for the first game with Michigan In 1887and has not missed a single home game since that time. 
Director Emeritus, Robert O'Brien, sug­gest that the band's history might even go back to the year the University was founded because one historical account begins, "In 1842 a small (band) of brot­hers came to northern Indiana." O'Brien does admit, though, that the first docu­mented appearance of the band was not until Notre Dame's commencement in 1846. The band was declared a "Landmark of American Music" in 1976 by the National Music Council, the Indiana Music Educators Association and Exxon. 
Millions ofpeople know the Notre Dame band through its appearances at half-time shows at home football games, bowl games and other away trips. The band appeared at the Mirage Bowl game in Tokyo in 1979. The band also performs at basketball games, and has marched and played at countless civic functions, dedications, and parades. Few realize that the football function of the band Is but a small part of the total schedule. 
The band performs 60 to 70 public per­formances durlg the nine-month school year In addition to Its half-time appear­ances during the football season. 
The Notre Dame Band first performed the famous "Notre Dame Victory March" In 1908. The march, written by John and Michael Shea, has been played everywhere from flea circuses on 42nd Street in New York to WHite House parties in Washington. One alumnus tells the story of hearing the march played as a demonstration tune on Chinese violins In Tientain during the Second World War. This famous melody has become one of the most copied and paraphrased college songs of all time. 
see BAND, page 2 

Scene-page 2 Weekend Edition-September 26-27,1986 
Painting faces for charity 
MARY JACOBY 
features editor 


It's too good of a deal to pass up: promote school spirit while supporting a good cause. Or at least that's what Finance Club VIce President Ryan Robinson is hoping students will think Satur­day when the club sets up its face-painting booth as a . fundralser for both the club itself and the American Cancer Soci­ety. 
As a fundraiser, the Finance Club will be painting blue and gold stripes on the cheeks of Notre Dame football fans for $1 an application. Halfthe proceeds will be donated to the American Cancer Society. 
Notre Dame Head Football Coach Lou Holtz is the honorary fundraislng chairman for the In­diana Crusade of the American Cancer Society. Robinson admits this connection influenced the Finance Club's decision about which charity should receive the donation. "It might sound opor­tunistic," Robinson said, "but we knew the Cancer Society was a worthy charity." 
"We learned the potential was there to make thousands and thousands of dollars. We wanted to share the proceeds philanthropically," Robinson said. 
With the rest of the profits the Finance Club intends to sponsor a trip to Wall Street for members during October break. Members would visit the New York Stock Exchange, Chase Manhattan Bank, the Federal Reserve and the Drexel, Burnham and Lam­bert investment banking firm. 

"The trip will give us a chance 

to learn about our field and party and sightsee in New York," Rob­inson said. 
The Finance Club got the idea for face painting from Ohio State, which sponsored the same project approximately two years ago. The Ohio State effort succeeded in painting a majority of students in their stadium. 
The Finance Club booth will be stationed on Green Field Satur­day from 9 a.m. to 2:15 p.m. next to the backstop near the Alumni Senior Club. The back­stop will be decorated with a caricature of Holtz. Robinson en­courages students not affiliated with the Finance Club to help with the activity. 
Band 
continuedfrom page 1 
A former Notre Dame 

bandsman and band director, 
the late Joseph Casasanta, com­
posed "Notre Dame, Our Mother" 
(the Alma Mater); "When Irish 
Backs Go Marching By," "Hike, 
Notre Dame," "Down the Lie," 
and several other well-known 
school songs. Casasanta di­
rected the band from 1919 to 
1942. O'Brien, who directed the 
band from 1952 to 1986, wrote 
"The Victory Clog (Damsha 
Bua)." 
The band's present director Is James Phillips. He serves as act­Ing director this year after being the associate director with O'Brien since 1965. Father George Wiskirchen, and Nicholas Morrison are the band's assistant directors this year. 
The University of Notre Dame 

Band has been shaking down the 
thunder from the sky for more 
than a century and hopes to con­
tinue to do so for generations to 
come. The Notre Dame Band 
proudly feels that Its tradition 
points out the viability and the 
eternal youth that signlfles the American Band of today. 
w 
yTop F Ten 
I 

!.Walk Like an Egyptian The Bangles 2.Sing Our Own Song UB40 3.Human Human League 4./n Your Eyes Peter Gabriel 5.Spirit in the Sky Doctor and the Medics 6.Boys Don't Cry The Cure 7.Whole New World It Bites B.Fadeaway The Bodeans 9.Fall On Me R. E. M. 
10.TuJist and Shout Rodney Dangerfield 
This chart compiled Irom the playlists of wvn-AM640 from 5q>t. I 0 to Sept. 16. 

In the colony's to right)Grm 
and Hicks( Michael Biehn) h 

~~~~~~~~~ss~~~~~~~~~~~-~~ss~~~~~ 

The Proof 
fs In 
the Taatel 


()pea......Jlo..S.t 11 •• 
PlaG-Sandu1ieha-Saloda Beer& Wine 277--­
~.oea.............. 
(Ncrllo........ 
WI DO NOT CURE IALDNESSI 
Wehelpyou.row 
thicker, healthier hair. 
-Tit• ,.,,.,.,.,.,.•lnoxltiii-
After years ol research, Hair Loss Center has an entirely new concept in the treatment of hair loss that produces visible results. Call for aFREE con­sultation to see ~ your thinning hair problem cat beSQived, befm rt'stoo late. 


Distributor For 
Mountain ]nan J(ut &fruit Co. 
Will be opening a store in the newly remodeled Lafortune Student Center. We are now accepting applications for the following positions: 


Store Manager 2 Part· Time In Store Sales People Assistant Store Manager 4 Outside Sales People -will work around class schedules­
• 

$ t' Applications are now being accepted at the Student Activities ¢ Office. 





Scene-page 3 Weekend Edition-September 26-27,1986 ­
Ripley (Sigourney Weaver) dons a Power Loader to do battle with the ''Aliens." 
···~.-~·· 
s:: 

r) protects Newt (Carrie Henn) from the army iols that has overrun Acheron in "Aliens." 

~peel the stasis tubes containing alien "face-huggers. •• 
Movies 


The Student Activities Board presents "Rebel Without a Cause" Friday and Saturday In the Engineering Auditorium. James Dean creates the image of a teenager caught In a web ofalienation andjuvenile violence. The film also stars Natalie Wood and Sal Mineo. Admission to the 7, 9:15 and 
11:30 p.m. showings is $1.50. 
"All About Eve," an engrossing drama starring Bette Davis as an aging actress who Is challenged by the seemingly Innocent Anne Baxter will be presented at 8 p.m. Saturday at the Little Theater on the campus ofIndiana University at South Bend. Admission to the fllm Is $1.75. 
The department of communication and theater presents "Qullombo" tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. This movie Is a historical saga derived from fact and is a fusion of folklore, political Impact and dynamic storytell­ing realized In vibrant tropical colors and set to the pulsing beat of Gilberta Oil's musical score. Tickets to the 7:30 and 9:30 p.m. shows are $1.50. 
Art 


The exhibit "Tamarind: 25 Years," continues this weekend at the Snlte Museum. The exhibit marks the 25th anniversary of the Tamarind Lithog­raphy Workshop. 
Works by the following artists will be included In the show: Josef Albers, Richard Diebenkorn, Sam Francis, Philip Guston, David Hockney, John Al­toon, Louise Nevelson, Rufino Tamayo, Judy Chicago, Nathan Ollvlera, fritz Scholder, Roy Deforest and Joseph Raffael and others prominent In the print field. 
Museum hours are 10-4 p.m. today and tomorrow. Admission Is free. 
Also at the Snlte Museum Is an "American Master Photographers" ex­hibit located In the Print, Drawing and Photography Gallery. 
A lot of 'Aliens' make for a great movie 
P.A.CIMINO 
features writer 

It has a different director and a different storylinE!, but "Aliens" is finally here. The sequel to director Ridley Scott's science­fiction horror film "Alien" from 1979. "Aliens" offers the return of Sigourney Weaver. special ef­fects galore and a script that has moviegoers cheering and some­times screaming. in the aisles. 

Movie review 
Aliens
***ltou1of four) 
"Aliens" is the continuing story of flight officer Ripley. played by Weaver, who is well remembered for her role in "Ghostbusters" and was directed by James Cameron. the man responsible for "The Terminator." 
As the film opens, Ripley, who has been suspended for 57 years in the escape pod of her previ­ously destroyed ship, the Nostrorno. is rescued. As she ex­plains the circumstances under which her crew and ship met their respective fates, her men­tion of an "alien" is received with expressions of disbelief. The planet Acheron, where she en· countered the alien in the first film is said to have been in­habited for the last twenty years. 
With this revelation to ponder. she is dismissed from the Com­pany and forced to reside in a seedy apartment and exist on the meager salary of a cargo loader. 
The Scoop 
Music 


A concert featuring pianist William Nelles will be held at 8:15p.m. friday in the Recital Hall at Indiana University at South Bend, located at 1700 Mis­hawaka Ave. for ticket information call 2.37-420.3. 

Theater 

The UniversityofNotre Dame depart­ment of theater presents, direct from Broadway, "Krapp's Last Tape" per­formed by Rick Cluchey at 8:10p.m. on Friday In Washington Hall. Ticket prices for the show are $6 for main floor, $5 for the balcony and $4 for students. 
However. this is temporary be­
cause she is immediately called 
by the Company to act as special 
advisor on a rescue mission to 
the colony on Acheron when all 
contact with the colonists is lost. 
Thus begins Ripley's 
encounter with a platoon of 
space marines. whose sole re­
sponsibility is to make a drop on 
Acheron and rescue any surviv­
ing colonists. The colonists are 
not the only beings they find. 
"Aliens" is not a basic space 
adventure film because the story 
is not the only important part. 
Each character acts as an indi­
vidual. From Ripley to the least 
remembered marine. the actors 
play their roles with enthusiasm 
and realism that lets the audi­
ence come as close as possible 
to feeling just what the charac­
ters are experiencing. 
Weaver is not bad in her 
reprised Rip Van Winkle-like role 
of Officer Ripley. Weaver has 
never been known as a very emo­·-tio»alactressand in fact. shewas almost passed over for her role in "Ghostbusters" because direc­tor Ivan Reitman thought she was too stern for the role. But she is 
given the chance to act in 
"Aliens" and she lives up to the 
challenge. 

The script of the film allows 
her the opportunity to be both 
mother and butch; something 
the earlier film had no intention 
ofdoing. Here the audience gets 
to see the inside of Ripley and 
Weaver gives a good show. 
Weaver has the main role and 
•*~ 

The Acting Ensemble Stage Com­pany will present William Saroyan's fantasy "My Heart's In the Highlands." Curtain time Is 8:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday at the Colfax Cultural Center, 914 Llncolnway West. For ticket Information call 234-PLAY. 

Mass 
The celebrants for Mass at Sacred Heart Church this weekend will be: Father Thomas Blantz at 9 a.m. on Sunday. Father Daniel Jenky at 10:30 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. 
The schedule for confessions In Sa­cred Heart Church Is: Monday through Saturday at 11:15 
a.m. 
Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. 
Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Saturday only 4-5 p.m. In the crypt. 
Vespers will be held Sundays at 7:15 
p.m. In the Lady Chapel. 
The rosary Is said dally at 6:45 p.m. at the Grotto. 
is supported by Michael Biehn. who. like many of the other ac­tors playing marines, came to the "Aliens" team from "Ter­minator" with Cameron. He was good in that film and he is also strong here as the only really sane marine in the group, Cor­poral Hicks. Biehn's lines are small but his prescence is great and when he is on the screen with Weaver, she shines. 
The rest of the marines are 
good too. Especially Bill Paxton 
as the extremely competent but 
easily unravelled Private Hud­
son. Paul Reiser, who starred in 
the comedy "Diner" also gives a 
strong showing as the Company 
representative on the squad. 
The real applause belongs not to the actors. but to the special effects departments. And there are plenty of them. Once again people from the "Terminator" team have done an astounding 
job making the alien beings ex­tremely life-like. The ceatures move with a suppleness that is totally believable and can conjur up chills in even the staunchest of movie-goers. 
This film is directed and edited to perfection. Each scene is developed to bring out strong re­action from the audience. When you see a picture that has every­one gasping and cringing in uni­son, it becomes that much more realistic. "Aliens" evokes every feeling it wants to with stirring force and it's a trip to another world you will want to take. Ifyou have the guts of course. 
.. 
-
-.. 
• 


Scene-page 4 Weekend Edition-September 26-27,1986 
Spreading the seeds of grace 

Chris is a sophomore who anyone else in. Every man hns a Into the storm. makes a habit of stopping to pet center, which is his heart's core "Man's life, my Lord, is like that my cocker spaniel, Darby O'Gill where his soul is anchored, that bird's flight out of the darkness, 
II. He also makes a habit ofgoing stays private and inaccessible. into the lighted room, back to to Mass to Sunday, not because That inaccessib ie, incom­the darkness," I said, continuing he's a catholic, but because, he municalbel center may be, as the my story. "Ifthe new religion can 

tell us anything about the un­known darkness surrunding our lives, we would be wise to listen
Father Robert Griffin 
to the messge of these mis­sionaries." 
Letters to a Lonely God 
Chris, opening his eyes, 
searched my face to see If I was 

says, he doesn't have a church mystics say, God's pasture, serious. "Is that, then, what reli­
of his own to go to. where He comes to play." "''m gion is all about," he said, "it 
Today, coming out of the not a mystic," I said, "and I can't raises the curtain of darkness so 
bookstore, as soon as I un­guarantee anything, not even the that we can see the day?" 
leashed Darby from the fence clumsy images I am using to It was my turn to grin. "God 
post where I had kept him ner­describe the interior isolation of doesn't make it that easy," I said. 
vously waiting for me, he made which, like you, I am only metap­"faith furnishes us with a candle, 
a beeline for Chris, whom· he hysically aware." useful as a night light, to take 
must have been watching as he . with us on our journey into the 
ate his lunch under a shade tree. It was a warm day for such house of death." 
By the time I caught up to D. heavy talk. The dog was now "Priests," he asked, "with their 
O'G., he was enjoying a snack asleep. Chris had his eyes nightlights of faith, know what 
from Chris's sandwich. closed; he wasn't asleep, only lis­waits for them on the far side of 
tening intently to find out where the grave?" 
Darby serves as a hound of I was going. "Many centuries heaven and a Christian mission­ago," I said, "the missionaries "The question should not be ary, and today I felt he was came to a pagan country to what waits for them, but Who spreading the seeds of grace on preach the Gospel. The king waits for them," I answered. the path ahead of me. I said: hesitated to let them in. Finally, "Priests, on their own, don't "Chris, how would you like to be­the king's wise man, his Merlin, know anything. As Christians, we come a catholic?" offered this advice: have the testimony of the Lord, 
Chris grinned all over his face. who served us as a trail blazer, "Why should I want to be? What Imagine, my Lord, a bird out and told us not to fear the dark­does the Catholic Church have of the winter night, coming ness at either end of the tunnel. to offer me? The salvation of my through a window into your He alone has the credentials to soul? The meekness that turns warm, festive banquet hall. The tell us to be at peace, since He away wrath?" · bird has this brief passage came from the Father and would 
"Not answers," I said, "or through the warmth and light return to the father. By going maybe answers that are mostly and stays no longer than the ahead of us like a scout to ex­mysteries leading to other ques-time it takes for those wet, plore the way, He let us see that tlons." chilled wings to find another the Love that raised Him is a 
window to pass through back power stronger than death." 
"I go to Mass sometimes, when Mass feels like the place I should be on Sunday nights, because everyone else is there," he said. "My attending Mass doesn't mean I'm a fish already caught 

219-872-2114 in the catholic net. To tell the 
Open 7 Day• per WHk truth, I don't care for the jargon 
1\
the priests use: 'Believe In God, if you want to fulfill your human 

IIICHIANA STABLES
potential."' "Is this what Jesus had in mind when He died on the 

Trail Aides • Pony Aldee • Hay Aldee Cross: to help me fulfill my 
• LH10118
human potential?" Chris contin­

.. Boerdlnt U.S. 12 (Ea•t of Michigan City)
ued. "It doesn't sound very ex­citing. fulfilling my potential, I 

• Tl'lllnlng : MICHIGAN CITY, IN 48310 figured out. Isjargon for saving my soul. 'Saving It from what?' I ask. From futility and loveless­ness and loneliness and isola­tion." "Why should I trust these priests who always answer me with jar­gon?" Chris said. "Where Is the evidence that they, or the cat­holics who listen to them, have fulfilled more of their potential that those benighted children of God who live withut faith or a creed?" As he talked, he was feeding his lunch to the hungry O'Gill, as a way, I suspect, of hiding his 
embarrassment at being so honest. 
"If you want to try the catholic religion of for size, you needn't begin with the priest. Priests, bis­hops, even the Pope, are pretty far down in the pecking order of God's universe," I said. "God's creation is full of gaps, vacancies, obscurities, mys­

TheLegendLivesOn.
teries, or whatever, which tease our minds, and leave us terrified, 

bl tht: ht-arts ;ui(J muKl.' nf ;dl ;\ll>ln: llan~ fc~k>wt'r.i. Cu011:h Knut~ Ruc:tult'' mt'1llC>n· 
if we let them. The universe, for L' mltl everyone of us, is a lonely place, :'>c>w. to h~ll' kl'•.-p that mt"fll<>ry ahw. a fl>ll culor hmlll'lll'\htHIIl hthogr.!ph pont. f">m Jll nn10nal cHI pa111:111~. h:t.<> htot1ll'-'',ro
until we join the saints, and can 
• Full ·Uk>r. ~~·x 21! ''' •
see It as a sacrament. Life is 
• ~.Jai"Hl of 1J'iU (!•>L< )() JltL'I·~ pnx>(S)
lonely with a metaphysical loneli­
• All pnnl' numl>t1l'll •~ ><I S>J111t'll tw tht· arl>~l 
ness. 
• ,.,.,,f.:Uc• of Autlk11ll\111. UllitKhl 
"Man was born alone; he will 

)00000000004$24.9504~~~00400j
die alone; and on the dark nights 
available at:
of the soul, he feels loneliness 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore
inside him like a chill in the 

open 9 a.m.-5 p.rnbones," I said. "He has a feeling, 
Friday and Saturday
which will not go away, that he Is staring at a blank wall. He can't get outside the wall, or let 


Chris gave a sigh as though he were trying to take it all in. "So," he said, "the Lord came to fill in the gaps, and light candles in the minds of priests, who use bor­rowed jargon to pass on the good word to the rest of us?" 
I wasn't going to let him trap me with the bad theology that uses God to fill the gaps, and then takes back more and more of God's territory as soon as we have a better understanding of secondary causes. 
"The gaps," I said, "if they're merely physical, like the empty spaces between the stars; or if they leave us with questions about the cause of things, like 'Who wound up the lock of the universe?', are part of the on­going game that faith plays with science. 
"The metaphysical gaps, represented by the emptiness that is always part of us, helps us to know who we are and what we are: loners, designed to be that way by the Creator, util He writes us a different contract, if He ever does," I said. "Even if I'm socially occupied, even if I'm in the company of Christ, the lonelness is there, though it's not pressing down on me. Later, when the company is gone, I'll know how profound the loneli· ness is, and always has been. 
"God lets me mourn the dead," I said, "though the empty space that grief leaves in my soul is as big as a circus tent. He doesn't send substitutes, not even Him­self. Memories and hope are the only comforts He allows, be-
Ill ALUMNI====~ 
~!:CLUB 
CLUB HOURS: 
!¥~~&l£w~ 9p.m.-2a.m. 

cause He wants me to know, by 
every lesson possible, that the · 
hearts tht were made for Him will 
always be restless until they rest 
in Him." 
"With all your talk of gaps, 
vacancies, obscurities and mys­
teries, you've confused me," he 
complained. 
''I'm confused myself," I ad­mitted, "though I'm working on it. I'm trying to let you see that faith doesn't have all the answers. I often don't know where God is, where He fits in, what things mean, or what His will is. On the spiritual plane, as in the scheme of evolution, He's a hidden God, and He keeps us guessing. His absence keeps us hungry for His presence." 
"I now know that the Catholic religion isn't all cut-and dried," he said. "I thought you priests had your act together better than that." 
"What have you got against priests?" I asked good naturedly. "They didn't invent the Catholic Church or the God that hides. Priests are only professional Christians who are trying to pass on hope, love, and redemption to a sin-sick world. Nothing stops you from shopping for the priest of your choice, until you finally find one who avoids jargon." 
By now, he was throwing a ball 
for Darby O'Gill to chase. If he joins the Catholic church, he will be Darby's convert. I'm just the mouthpiece for that dog when heaven sends him on errands of grace. 

Notre Dan1e Avenue ApartDients 
NOWRENJJNG FORFAI.(. 
Completely furnish~ balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & maintenence, all deluxe features 
1\lo\l' in hl·fcu·l·JO/J/86 and gl'( 
ONE MONTH FREE RENT Office at 120 ND AYe 13. 6647 Call Aaytime 
12 (noon) -2p.m. 1/2 hour after game-2a.m. 







