
---------~-­
Door decor -page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 57 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 24, 1986 the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Aquino fires Enrile, cabinet after coup is foiled by army 
Associated Press 
MANILA, Philippines -Pres­ident Corazon Aquino fired her entire Cabinet, including con­troversial Defense Minister Juan Enrile, after the army foiled a coup attempt Sunday by dissident officers and politi­cal foes. 
Aquino credited army chief of staff Gen. Fidel Ramos with taking "preventative measures against the reckless-
Sandinistas not against 
Church: VP 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
Nicaraguan Vice President Sergio Ramirez-Mercado said in a lecture Friday that the Sandinistas are not repressing the Catholic Church · in Nicaragua, but that negotia­tions between the Nicaraguan government and the Contras are out of the question. 
Speaking on the topic of "Church and State in Nicaragua," Ramirez identi­fied four "misconceptions" about the relationship of Church and State in Nicaragua. 
"First, it is said that the San­dinista government tried to divide the Church in Nicaragua 
and  to  substitute  it  for  a  
'Popular  Church,' " said  
Ramirez.  

The reality, however, is that many Christians justified the right of the people to take up arms against the Somoza regime and participated in the Sandinista revolution, said Ramirez. "By the time of the revolutionary coup in 1979, the participation of Christians in the armed struggle ... became a key element for the over­throw of the dictatorship. 
"We are not trying in any way to interfere in the internal affairs of the Church. We are not trying to create a parallel structure to the Church. But neither can we stop the partic­ipation of Catholics in the process of the changes in Nicaragua," said Ramirez. 
A second misconception is that the Nicaraguan govern­ment is trying to "silence the Church," said Ramirez. 
"During the last seven years the Catholic Church has been growing in Nicaragua .... Before the (revolution) there were 293 priests in Nicaragua; today, there· are 430," said Ramirez. "Twenty percent of all schools in Nicaragua belong to private religious orders. A Catholic University exists in Nicaragua . . . . There are more than 2,000 evangelical pastors compared to 1,500 that ness of some elements in the Aquino spoke over national ingly has been critical of government learned of it at 10 military." television. Aquino. a.m. Saturday, he said. 
She warned that "sternest Ramos issued a statement A senior government official Troops loyal to Aquino and measures" would be taken if confirming that politicians said the plot involved taking Ramos surrounded radio and anyone tried to undermine her loyal to deposed President Fer­ov~r the National Assembly, television stations in Manila nine-month-old government. dinand Marcos, backed by remstating the pro-Marcos Na­and elsewhere Saturday, and 
The president also accused "some elements in the mili­tional Assembly abolished by tightened security measures at the Communist rebels, who tary," had planned to set up a Aquino and calling presidential the presidential palace and have waged a 17-year insur­rival government. He said the elections. other key points. gency, of showing no interest situation was under control. The official, who requested in peace and said she would end He did not identify the plot­anonymity, said more than 100 On Sunday, after holding a negotiations if a cease-fire is ters or mention Enrile. The members of a military faction lengthy Cabinet meeting, not reached this month. Enrile defense chief, who served un­identified with Enrile were in Aquino announced on televi­and other critics accused her der Marcos but also helped oust on the plot, with the coup to sion that she had asked all of being soft on the rebels. him last February, increas-begin at 2 a.m. Sunday. The Cabinet members to resign. 



Homosexual group hosts dissent talk 
By ROB HENNIG Gramick said at the lecture Senior Staff Reporter on campus that the recent Vatican document labeling Homosexuals can be both homosexulity "an intrinsic Catholic and dissent from offi­moral evil" and "an objective cial Catholic teaching, said disorder" is in conflict with so­Sister Jeannine Gramick, con­cial science findings. The let­sidered to be an authority in ter, written in English, was ad­the area of ministry to homo­dressed mainly to Catholics in sexual people. America, according to 
Gramick spoke at a lecture Gramick. Sunday night at the Galvin "The dissent that is happen­Auditorium which was spon­ing on this issue is mainly in sored by the Graduate the United States," Gramick Theological Union and a group said. calling itself the Gays and Les­Gramick, a member of the of bians at Notre Dame-Saint the School Sisters of Notre Mary's (GLNMMC). Dame, entered the gay mini­
Gramick, a Notre Dame stry in 1971 and is a co-founder alumnus, and Reverend Robert of New Ways Ministry. Nugent, also involved in gay Gramick, speaking before an ministry, also are conducting a audience of approximately 75 one-day seminar today in South people, said dissent as a Cath­Bend. olic on the issue of homosexual 
"We have members attend­behavior is permissible. ing (the seminar), but that is "As a believing community, a personal thing," said we know we do not possess all GLNMMC's co-chairman. of the truth," Gramick said. 
The seminar, entitled "Tear­She added that as a changing ing Down the Walls: Learning society, "It demands that we to Dialogue with Lesbian and develop new thinking. Gay People," is sponsored by "We must allow the spirit to the Catholic Coalition for Gay grow in us so that we have new Civil Rights and is part of an insights," said Gramick. eight-city Midwestern tour. According to Gramick, ordi­
Soul Music l_ The tour is intended to nary teaching of the Church promote dialogue and under­"sometimes does not translate
Guitarist Steve Warren studies his sheet music during the Sunday standing between homosexual into a personal acceptance. 

12:15 Mass at Sacred Heart Church. Warren and the choir of people and the churches, accor­singers beside him were participating in a Notre Dame Folk ding to the coalition. see TALK, page 3 Choir reunion. 

ND invasion by Wisconsin students postponed 
By MARK PANKOWSKI did manage to raise their In preparation for the as­event shown on WNDU's 11 News Editor school's flag on the South Quad sault, the students had stolen p.m. newscast. The students Saturday night. 24,000 "threeks" in a 72-hour told the reporter they had an­
One hundred University of Marmel, the student who period, said Marmel, adding nexed Notre Dame as part of Wisconsin students invading originated the invasion idea, that this was made possible by their school. Notre Dame, trading their billed it as "The World's Larg­a rule allowing students to The other planned events, 
"threeks" for dining hall forks est Road Trip." bring dishes and utensils to however, were rescheduled un­and wreaking havoc on the He said the students were their rooms. til some time next semester, he campus? planning to come to Notre Marmel's plan also called for said. 
It almost happened. At least Dame, claim the campus as an him to distribute 1,000 free con­Marmel said he rescheduled according to Steve Marmel, a extension of their school and doms to Notre Dame students the trip after writing a column University of Wisconsin­call it the University of this past weekend, he said. In about being roughed up by four Madison senior and student Wisconsin-Notre Dame. addition, University of Wiscon­Notre Dame students. The Nov. newspaper columnist. "It's a great campus," Mar­sin students would raise their 13 column triggered an angry 
Until a little while ago, Mar­mel said. "We want it." schools' flag on the Notre reaction from approximately mel said he and about 100 other As part of the "invasion," Dame campus. 400 UW students, who UW students were planning to Marmel said the students But Marmel called the whole threatened to wreak havoc on "invade" Notre Dame this past would trade their schools' thing off. Or most of it. the Notre Dame campus during weekend. "threeks," or three-pronged Twenty UW students did the planned visit, he said. 
Although the invasion was forks, for Notre Dame's four­raise the Badger flag on 
TheObserver/SteveGrabicki 

see VP, page 4 rescheduled, 20 UW students pronged forks. campus Saturday night, an see THREE~:S. paar 4 

---------------------------------------------------~--------~------------· 
The Observer 


In Brief 
Thirty-four windows were broken in last Tuesday night's snowball fight, according to Director of Maintenance John 
Moorman. In Cavanaugh Hall alone 16 windows were bro­ken. Compared to previous years, however, a minimal amount of damage resulted from the fight, according to Moorman. -The Observer 
Liberal Arts graduates are promoted most often, says a 30-year AT&T study, as detailed in the August, 1986 issue of the "Journal of Applied Psychology" Monograph. The study explored the relationship between college experi­ences and later managerial performance, and found in­volvement in extra-curricular activities to be more im­portant for success in the long run than getting high grades. -The Observer 
U.S. credibility has deteriorated in the Arab world be­cause of Iran arms deal, said President of Egypt Hosni Mubarak Sunday. Mubarak said he sent a message to Reagan to ask about the "very astonishing" situation. All Arab states except Syria and Libya support Iraq in its 6-year-old war with Iran, a non-Arab nation. -Associated Press 
For calorie control during Thanksgiving, experts say one should skip or cut down on butter, cheese sauce, gravy, salad dressing and other toppings and try fresh fruit for dessert rather than the traditional, sugary pies. Adults who want to enjoy their Thanksgiving -but still watch their weight -can eat up to 2,000 calories, experts say. -Associated Press 
Convicted drunk drivers have begun to be ordered to visit the scenes of fatal crashes involving intoxicated motorists in an effort ''to provide a more graphic visualiza­tion of the possible consequences" of drinking and driving. So far, two defendants have been sentenced to view acci­dent scenes, and the penalty has been carried out once. ­
Associated Press 

Of Interest 
"Between Literature and Philosophy: Theory, Practice, and Significance in Literary Studies," will be discussed today at 3:45p.m. in Wilson Commons. Speaking in this departmental colloquium series will be English Professor Gerald Bruns. -The Observer 
"Surviving Finals Week" will be presented in a two-part workshop by the University Counseling Center. Stress management will be focused on tonight from 7 to 9 in 119 Haggar Hall. Test anxiety and test preparation will be discussed next Monday at the same time and place. -The Observer 
"Trends within the Peruvian Church and Their Relation with the Political Crisis" will be the focus of Tuesday's "Brown Bag Seminar" at 12 p.m. in 131 Decio Hall. Catalina Romero, director of the Centro Bartolome de las Casas, will speak at this Kellogg Institute event. -The Observer 

Weather 
As the turkeys start to get nervous we will have partly sunny skies with the high near 40. Fair and cold tonight with the low near 30. Becoming cloudy Tuesday with the high in the middle to upper 40s. Partly cloudy Thanksgiving Day with the low in the middle 30s and highs in the middle 40s. 



Design Editor ....................... Kathy Huston Viewpoint Layout .............. Kathy Behrmann Design Assistant .................. Tom Schiesser Accent Copy Editor .................... Lisa Young Typesetters...... .. ........... Pat Clarke Accent Layout ..................... Melissa Warnke .............................................. Chris Reardon Typists ...................................... Colleen Foy News Editor .................................. Jim Riley ND Day Editor .................... Laurine Megna Copy Editor ........ ............ .... .... .. . Chris Julka Ad Design ................................. Fred Nelson Sports Copy Editor............... Rick Rietbrock Photographer ........................ Steve Grabicki Viewpoint Copy Editor ....... Maura Mandyck 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana46SS6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Monday, November 24, 1986-page 2 

Doubts: learning to deal with them can teach us something 
Doubts, now that I think about it, are posi­
tively negative things to have. 

That may sound odd to hear, but I believe it's true. We shouldn't let a lack of certainty over­come our goals. By the same token, we shouldn't feel inundated by a variety of alter­natives. If I allowed doubt to rule me, I might never have come to Notre Dame. I might never have known the good friends I've made here. 
When I first came to Notre Dame, I had some idea of what to expect. I figured, hey, it's my first college choice. I chose it because it has a really nice campus, a great reputation as an academic institution and its curricula inter­ested me. 
Still, coming here was a new experience for me. I wasn't sure of a lot of things. I thought to myself, "What if my roommate turns out to be a jerk?" or "Will I get along with other guys in the dorm?" These things didn't bother me initially, but the closer I got to coming out here, the more plagued I felt by it all. 
As it turned out, everything went better than I had expected. I really didn't have any expec­tations, other than that I was going to like it at Notre Dame. Yet, alas, I was wrong. I really don't like it here. 
I love it. 

Perhaps I had doubts before coming here, but they were soon dispelled after getting a taste of life under the Dome. Despite the fact I didn't get any information about them, my room­mates, Mike, Marcus and Scott, are great guys. We all get along very well. Come to think of it, our entire section is pretty close knit. 
I admit I had doubts about what life here would be like. Everybody did at some time or other. But instead of giving in to them, I decided to make the best of whatever situation I en­countered. It paid off. 
I'm quite glad I did. In so doing, I met some people from different parts of the country, with different ideas, with different lifestyles, people who are just plain different. Maybe I could've been close minded about it all, but I wasn't. Nobody said it was going to be easy to live in a new atmosphere with people I'd never met. Nonetheless, I tried it and found it's not so bad. 
If I hadn't, I wouldn't have seen the special qualities every person has. If you don't see them, look, they're in there somewhere. I think Father Ted said it's easy to help someone who is popular, good looking, etc. He's right. There are an awful lot (don't take that literally) of other people out there. They're no less impor­tant. 
Thinking back, I can't imagine what life 
Regis Coccia 
Assistant News Editor 

would have been like if I was less tolerant of others. I could've missed out on some of the really fun things our section does. There are a bunch of games we play to let off steam or take our minds off the workload for a bit. We have a weekend ritual of watching "Spinal Tap" or "The Blues Brothers." It's a family-like atmo­sphere. 
I suppose I could've let some minor idiosyncrasy bother me, but I asked myself, "You can live with that, can't you?" More often than not, I found I could. Maybe others have done the same for me. It's the give and take that enables people to stand those with whom they live and work. I'm really glad I gave it a chance. I can only hope others feel the same way. 
I've met some great people at Notre Dame. Before I became a member of the student body, I used to wonder what is so special, so inex­plicably unique about this place. Now that I'm here, it's dawned on me. It's the people. It's us. We make Notre Dame special because we are special people. We make Notre Dame what it is. 

FRESHMEN! 
NOW THAT YOU'VE SETTLED IN AND KNOW YOUR WAY AROUND CAMPUS, WHY NOT TAKE STEPS TOWARD LEARNING YOUR WAY AROUND THE WORLD! ALONG WITH THE CHALLENGE OF SERVING AS A 
NAVAL AVIATOR, SUBMARINER, OR SURFACE LINE OFFICER, YOU MAY SPEND YOUR SUMMERS BROADENING YOUR HORIZONS! 
~ ~ ~ ~vr-
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBIUTY FAST. 

A THREE YEI\R SCHOLARSHIP ($27,000) MAY BE EARNED BY JOINING THE NROTC UNIT IN YOUR FRESHMEN YEAR! FOR DETAILS CALL LT WACHTL AT 239-6063! 
The Observer Monday, November 24, 1986-page 3 
l 
j I

IU official found dead in freak hotel accident 

Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -The death of an Indiana University official who was found in a pool of blood in his hotel room here was ruled accidental Sunday, police said. 
The body of John A. Leuthart III, 27, was found in his room at the Marriott Hotel Saturday afternoon by a friend who had come to meet him, said South Bend police spokesman Donald Cornelis. 
Leuthart, the coordinator for student activities at IU­Southeast in New Albany and a Clarksville native, was at­tending the regional workshop for the National Association For Campus Activities at the Century Center in South Bend and had been staying at the hotel, Cornelis said. 
An autopsy performed Sun­day at Memorial Hospital showed that Leuthart had a puncture wound to his throat that had severed the carotid ar­tery and punctured the internal jugular vein causing massive hemorrhaging, Cornelis said. 
Cornelis said investigators speculate that while the victim was showering, he started to slip and grabbed for a ceramic handle on the shower wall to steady himself. 
"But instead the handle broke from the wall and he ac­cidentally hit himself in the throat with the sharp, jagged edge of the handle," Cornelis said. 
He said Leuthart's wound was consistent with the shape of the broken handle, which was found at the bottom of the tub. 
When Leuthart's friend ar­rived at the hotel room to meet him, the victim was found slumped over the bed in a pool of blood with the phone off the hook, Cornelis said. He said there was a trail of blood leading from the bathroom to the spot where the body was found. 
Talk 
continuedfrom page 1 
"We need the test of time to sift out the erroneous teaching from those which maybe true," she said. Gramick added, "Dis­sent in the Church has helped us to correct erroneous teach­ing." 
According to Gramick, Saint Augustine established the doctrine of anything that was pleasurable had to be justified and procreation was the only justifiable purpose of sexual activity. 
Vatican II, on the other hand, Gramick said, put procreation and love as coequal purposes of sexual union. Gramick said there needs to be further change. 

"We need to broaden our fu­ture. Love needn't be accom­panied by procreation. We must bring that love and bear fruit in the community. 
"We must have dissent in our search for truth. If it's of God, then we trust, we know, it will perdure." 
Gramick said Catholic homosexuals have generally dissented from Church teach­ing. 
"Their response to the offi­cial stance of the Church re­garding homogenital behavior . . . has been one of dissent," Gramick said. 
According to Gramick, the Church teaches that "for homo­sexual individuals, any type of sexual activity, any type of genital behavior is morally wrong." 
"Gay people feel that if celibacy is a gift ... then why is it an absolute rule for every gay person," said Gramick. 
Gay people stay in the Cath­olic Church for many different reasons, according to Gramick. 
"Lesbian and gay Catholics know that the pope and the Roman Curia are not the final arbiters," Gramick said. 
"Each one has a responsibil­ity to follow their own con­science. Catholicism is not really a system of beliefs or laws, it's a shared history of belief in Jesus," she continued. 
The =-Observer 
is now accepting applications for 
Viewpoint Editor 

Submit personal statement and resume to Joe Murphy by 5 p.m. Tuesday, November 25 3rd floor LaFortune 
FACULTY COURSE EVALUATIONS ARE COMING! 

• 
Your chance to evaluate the ND Faculty and see the results! 

• 
Results will be available prior to Advance Registration for Fall classes. 

• 
You will receive your forms immediately following Thanksgiving Break. 

• 
To return--each dorm will have a box ... 

• 
Your input is of exftremwe value ! ! 






The Observer 
Monday, November 24, 1986 -page 4 


"Cube and the Rhythm Cats" perform in Stepan Anti-Apartheid Network. From left to right the Center Friday as part of the "Amandla" con­band members are: Tim Griffy, Geoff Rossi, cert, a fund raiser sponsored by the Notre Dame Mark Stevens, and Patti Shackelford. 
VP 
continuedjrompage 1 
existed before." He added, "Since the time of the revolu­tion in Nicaragua, 158 religious have been killed in Central America .... Of these 158 re­ligious, not a single one, I repeat, has been murdered in Nicaragua." 
Ramirez justified the ban of the only independent newspa­per in Nicaragua, La Prensa, on the grounds that a "state of emergency" exists in Nicaragua because of the San­dinista war with the Contras. He compared the censorship in­stituted by the Nicaraguan gov­ernment to the censorship practiced by President Lincoln during the American Civil War. 
A third misconception is that "the Sandinista government doesn't want any kind of dialogue with the Catholic hierarchy." said Ramirez. "In fact, the Nicaraguan govern­ment has maintained a consis­tent rapport with the Catholic Church in Nicaragua. Since the new representative from the Vatican arrived to Managua, 
Threeks 
continued/rom page 1 
Marmel explained that two weeks ago, as part of the plan, he and another UW student had put up about 100 posters around Notre Dame. 
The poster read "Warning. This area has been targeted by the University of Wisconsin­Madison for abuse and public ridicule. 
"All that you hold dear --All that you consider sacred --All that you love --Dead! Dead! Dead! Dead! Dead! Dead! We've always admired your beautiful campus, so now we're just going to take it. 
"And if we destroy it in the process --tough." 
Marmel said the posters were put up as a joke. "We were doing it kiddingly, of course," he said. 
But as they were putting up these posters, Marmel said he and his friend were grabbed by four Notre Dame students "who looked like football players." 
According to Marmel, one of the four students read the pos­ter and said, "Maybe we should teach them a lesson." 
Marmel said he replied, "Well, what about math?" upon which time the four stu­dents roughed them up. 
"We weren't hurt " said Marmel. "We were j~st beat around a little bit." 
Marmel said he and his improved efforts have been made to improve the relations and to define just what these relations ... ought to be." 
The fourth misconception which Ramirez cited is that no free practice of religion is al­lowed in Nicaragua. "We respect the free practice of re­ligion in Nicaragua," Ramirez said. "Catholic practice and Catholic faith is an essential part of our movement, and we are not planning to remove any essential part of it." 
Ramirez said the claim that the Sandinista government has killed approximately 10,000 Mesquito Indians is a "complete lie." He acknowl­edged, however, that "mis­takes" in the Sandinista policy toward the Indians had oc­curred. 
Ramirez also said negotia­tions with the Contras would be unacceptable to the Nicaraguan government. 
"To negotiate with them is useless because they do not represent Nicaraguans," said Ramirez. Because they are funded and supported by the United States, they are nothing more than a form of external aggression, he said. 
friend didn't report the incident to Notre Dame Security, ex­plaining that they didn't want Security to know why they were harassed. 
Returning to the University of Wisconsin, Marmel wrote a column for the Badger Herald, an independent student news­paper with about 24,000 readers. 
Carrying the headline "Clubbed like a baby seal.Notre Dame takes its first licks," the Nov. 13 column recounted the alleged incident involving the four students. Marmel also lambasted Notre Dame students and discussed plans for "The World's Largest Road Trip." 
In the column, Marmel wrote, "We also learned that lack of sex is what causes Notre Dame students to profess such a school spirit. It's really, as Dr. Ruth would say, mis­directed sexual repression." 
Mter discussing the incident involving the Notre Dame stu­dents, Marmel wrote, "Maybe I deserved it. Hell, I'll admit it, I did. 
"However, considering the sheer number of students at UW that are waiting in line to give me a throttle, it seems un­fair that a non-UW . student would have first dibs." 
When the column appeared, Marmel said about 400 students wanted to make the road trip. "Not only were they going to steal your forks, but they wanted to wreck this campus too," he said. 
Ramirez denied the claim made by Contra member Bosco Matamoros that over 40 per­cent of the Contras are former Sandinistas. He said that most of the Contras were members of the National Guard that served under Somoza. 
In a question-and-answer session after the lecture, one questioner, identifying himself as a Nicaraguan, said Ramirez's parents had held positions in the Somoza govern­ment and had made statements which approved of the right­wing regime. Ramirez denied these allegations, calling them "lies," and some members of the audience told the ques­tioner to "sit down" and "shut up." 
Ramirez gave the lecture in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. He was accompanied in his visit by Nicaraguan Ambassador to the United States Carlos Tun­nermann. Their visit was spon­sored by several groups includ­ing the Graduate Association for Latin America and the South Bend Chapter of the Wo­men's International League for Peace and Freedom. 
As a result, Marmel decided to reschedule the road trip. 
"This is a fake war. We're just goofing around," he said. "We don't want anyone hurt." 
Moreover, Marmelsaid, UW students no longer had reason to trade their "threeks" for Notre Dame forks. 
Marmel explained that after students had stolen the 24,000 "threeks," leaving only 600 in the dining halls, school officials wrote a letter to students apologizing for buying the three-pronged forks. They asked students to return the "threeks," promising to buy four-pronged forks in the fu­ture. 
"So there was no reason to actually steal yours," Marmel said. 
Twenty students still made the road trip to Notre Dame, however. 
Marmel said these 20 "generals" were scouting the campus, looking for things to do. When the official road trip is made, the "generals" will be able to show the other students where to go and what to do on the Notre Dame campus. 
Before the road trip, however, Marmel said he wants Notre Dame students to visit the University of Wiscon­sin. Marmel said he plans on arranging the visit through Notre Dame's student govern­ment. 
"When we make our road trip, it will be a fun thing rather than a vengeful thing," he ex­plained. "That's why we want you guys to come up first." 

Prisoners escape using Red Cross helicopter 
Associated Press 
ROME Two gunmen hijacked a Red Cross helicop­ter Sunday, lifted two inmates from a prison courtyard and flew off firing automatic weap­ons at guards, Italian police said. 
A third prisoner dashed toward the helicopter but slipped in the rain. 
The chopper landed a short time later in a Rome soccer field where a match was under way, and hijackers and con­victs fled by car. Police set up roadblocks and searched the region with helicopters. 
Officials said the hijackers spoke French and that one jailbreaker, a Tunisian-born Frenchman, was sought by French authorities in connec­tion with a Paris bank robbery and murder. The other fugitive reportedly was suspected of supplying arms to Italian ter­rorists. 
Police said the hijackers walked into San Camillo Hospi­tal in western Rome and cor­nered the helicopter pilot, 42­year-old Mauro Pompa. 
They handcuffed Pompa's 10-year-old son to a radiator and forced Pompa at gunpoint to take them to the helicopter parked across the street. 
The white helicopter with red crosses painted on the sides then flew across the city to Rebibbia Prison in eastern Rome. There it hovered three feet above the courtyard where about 50 inmates were exercis­ing at 10:45 a.m., Deputy War­den Giancarlo Baldassini told reporters. 
As the hijackers laid down covering gunfire and lowered a rope ladder, two inmates jumped in. 
A guard was slightly injured by flying glass in the shootout, police said. They said two shots fired by a guard hit the helicop­ter. 
The Italian news agency ANSA said the six guards on duty at first thought the helicopter was arriving for a medical emergency. 
A neighborhood soccer game was under way in Rome's Cinecitta area when the helicopter landed on the field, scattering the players. 

Where the need is . . . there we will be. 
As individuals and as a community, we will work toward the alleviation of hunger, misery and the lack of knowledge. 

HOLY CROSS BROTHERS 
Br. Don Gibbs, C.S.C. Director of Vocations Box 460 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

MARRIAGE PREPARATION RETREATS will be offered in the Spring Semester: JANUARY 30-31 MARCH 6-7 

APRIL 3-4 
'Reservations for tfiese '%treats must 6e made no Cater tfw.n: 'Decem6er 10 -January !Rgtreat :Fe6ruary 6 -Marcfi !Rgtreat Marcfi 3 -Jlprif !Rgtreat 

Each Retreat is limited to 18 couples For more information call University Ministry 239-5242 


\Tie\Y~_O_i_D_t__________~M~onday~,Nov~emoor~~.l~~-r~ars 
Caring people make Notre Dame special 
I was eating lunch with my friend the other day when suddenly he looked up from his Observer and asked me, "Why does everyone in the paper always rip on Notre Dame? Why can't anyone write anything positive about this place?" 
Tom Varnum 
third and long 

Before I snapped a quick "Because there is nothing positive to write about" reply, I thought for a moment. There has to be something special about this school. Notre Dame is one of the most prestigious schools in the country. Mil­lions worldwide consider themselves "subway" alumni. Less than 20 percent of all Notre Dame applicants are ac­cepted. If this is such a bad school, why do so many try to get in? If they do get in and begin to complain, why do so few people actually transfer? I, myself, have been known to take a few shots at the Dome. I have to ask myself, why did I come here and why am I not trans­ferring? What makes Notre Dame spe­cial to me? 
Well, in the first place, I went to col­lege to get an education. And at Notre Dame, as the ad for the fine Wisconsin pilsner says, "It don't get no better than this." The value of a Notre Dame edu­cation cannot be measured with dollars and cents. By requiring students to study a little from all disciplines, Notre Dame lays the foundation upon which all future knowledge will be built. When you get right down to it, Notre Dame offers excellent education; and that's what we all came here for in the first place, isn't it? 
Integrity is another facet of Notre Dame we take for granted. I am not simply referring to the Catholic morals. I mean honesty and hard work. Our ath­letic programs offer a fine example. While many other schools with similar programs sacrifice honesty and hard work to further their athletics, Notre Dame does not. Notre Dame combines athletic excellence with academic in­tegrity. While scandals involving drugs, cheating and payoffs rock many universities nationwide, Notre Dame remains clean yet competitive. Maybe we should take pride in a school with integrity instead of complaining about its food or weather. 
Tradition also makes Notre Dame special. It may sound corny now, but just wait until you leave here. When you tell people you went to Notre Dame, most (especially alumni) will instantly perk up. Although they will probably ask you about the football team ini­tially, bear with them and they will open up many new doors. I am sure you have experienced some of this ef­fect already. When you go home on break and people discover or remem­ber you go to Notre Dame, you usually get instant attention. People know Notre Dame and, whether for football or academics, they respect and admire it. It may be difficult to think of these benefits now; but, in the long run, they just may make you forget about the alcohol policy. 

The most obvious yet most over­looked asset of Notre Dame is our campus. Simply put, it is beautiful. From the vibrant color of fall to the sparkling white of winter to the lush green of spring, our campus shines. From the old-style architecture (I try to avoid Decio as much as possible) to the historic monuments, the campus breathes beauty. I have seen some Ivy League schools that would be happy to call North Quad their "campus green". The overwhelming beauty of the Notre Dame campus radiates all year long. 
Certainly education, integrity, tradi­tion and beauty all contribute to the Notre Dame experience, but all these can be found elsewhere. There are many schools across the country which meet these four requirements. Someth­ing here, though, makes Notre Dame special. In my eyes, only one thing separates Notre Dame from others: its people. 
Notre Dame people are in a class by themselves. That's what makes it dif­ferent. Notre Dame people care. They care about each other as well as those less fortunate than themselves. Maybe this is part of our Catholic background, I'm not sure. All I know is Notre Dame students go out of their way to help others. Even those of us who tend to complain about Notre Dame are just trying to improve our school. We do 
P.O. Box Q 
Snowball fight causes danger to everyone 
Dear Editor: 
I would like to comment on something I witnessed Tuesday evening. As most of us in the North Quad are aware, there was a "snowball fight" involving quite a large number of our students. Previ­ous to Tuesday evening, I was under the impression that Notre Dame stu­dents possessed above-average intelli­gence; however, I am now beginning to question my own perceptions. Is it possible that our students do not realize the danger of throwing a snowball? I learned of it in grammar school when 
Doonesbury 
one of my classmates was killed be­cause his "friends" hit him in the head with a tightly packed snowball. 
I would also like to say something to the person who broke my window with a snowball. Did you ever consider that flying glass can oftentimes do ir­reparable damage should it hit some­one? I am thankful that nobody hap­pened to be sitting by that window when your snowball came flying into my living room. 
It is unfortunate that such behavior will not cease until someone is badly injured or even killed. I can only hope and pray that our students begin to reflect upon their behavior and realize that such action is more befitting children under the age of ten than it is students who are supposedly adults. 

Judy L. Hutchinson Rector, Breen-Phillips Hall 
Contributions of time helped out many 
Dear Editor: 

Last weekend Grace Hall had its third annual 24-hour run for charity. It came off as a big success as we raised over $400 for the Northeast Neighbor­hood Service Center. However, none of this would have been possible without the help of many people. 
First, thanks so much to our spon­sors: Ernst & Whinney, Colonial Pan-
Garry Trudeau 
Jove our school; and, therefore try to make it a better place. 
The "Notre Dame Family" as it is called, may not seem obvious to you, but it is there. It is there at every foot­ball game, every Mass and every group of friends that get together to have a good time. You cannot tell me the stu­dent support for Kevin Hurley wasn't special. For a moment try to forget about the social life, food, weather, al­cohol policy and everything else you don't like here and realize that we are all in it together. Above all, when I think of Notre Dame, I think of a group of people who care. 
A faculty member I know here has a very peculiar habit. Every once in a while he will say "NOTRE DAME, NOTRE DAME" for no apparent rea­son. When I first met him, I thought this was quite strange. But now, I think I understand him. In the push and shove of our busy schedules, it is very easy to ignore the good here and concentrate on the bad. Every once in a while, we need to be reminded of the good here at Notre Dame. The next time you are overwhelmed by ethanol or repulsed by the food or bored silly by the social life, take a deep breath (or a shallow one if ethanol is the problem) and say to your­self, "NOTRE DAME, NOTRE DAME". 
Tom Varnum is a sophomore English major and a regular Viewpoint colum­nist. 
cake House, Jamison Inn, Varsity Shop, Coral Nissan, and City Awning of South Bend. Their contributions helped to cover expenses and are greatly appre­ciated. 
Thanks must be given to the 96 run­ners from Grace Hall. We appreciate your time and effort, guys; I hope it was worth your while. 
Lastly, thanks to all those who served on the organizational committee and helped man the tent. Chris Simms, Glenn Hegewald, Tom Brennan, Rick Ehrman, Jeff Elia, Tom Kelly and several others made the event a great success. 
Tim Spires Grace Hall 
~------------. 
Quote of the day 
"Many are the plans in a man's heart, but tis the Lord's purpose that prevails. " 
Proverbs 19:21 


General Board 
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556(219)239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz Advertising Design Manager... Mary Carol Creadon 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer. Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone
slty of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free 
Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 

expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. Founded November 3, 1966 

Accent 
Monday, November 24, 1986-page 6 


C 

LUCY BARAQUIO features writer 
It's a Sunday afternoon, and you're going to the library to finish up some last-minute re­search. On your way over, you pass an unfamiliar sight: a crowd Is gathering at the Clarke Memorial Fountain. Taking a closer look out ofsheer curiosity, you find at the center of this crowd several regular-looking guys throwing various objects Into the air and catching them in a rhythmic circular pattern. 
What is this, you wonder? An Interesting commercial gimmick to draw attention to the new memorial? A low-budget travel­ing circus? A Gulnness Book world record attempt? Actually, no. It is none other than the Notre Dame Juggling Club, hold­ing one of It's weekly sessions out on the quad. 
You may wonder why you've never noticed this before. Per­haps It is because the club has only been in existence for a short time. Seniors Dave Zoretic and Bill Lane and sophomore Pat Dunne put the club together at the beginning of this semester, and they've been providing a di­version for passersby In the North Quad ever since. 
The idea of forming a juggling club on campus was conceived when Lane and Zoretic, who have been juggling since freshman year, performed ajuggling act at the Zahm Invitational Talent Show (ZITS) last year and met with extremely favorable audi­ence response. 
"People obviously likejuggling acts," said Zoretic. "So we 
Luckily there is no need to panic --help is right there. The NIYSMC Branch of the Red 
Cross is ready for just about
Dorm door decor 
MARGARET MONAHAN 
• features writer 

From memo boards with uni­corns and butterflies to Far Side paraphernalia, the doors of many campus rooms are full of interesting tidbits. What better way to express a thought or add some pizazz to a generic looking room than with a few door decorations? 
Annette Scalise, Kathleen Pearl and Aimee Gottllck of LeMans Hall are prime examples. Their door is full of favorite quotes and comments like, "I think I'm going to have my teeth shaved so they're all the same length." Or the old classic, "Onomatopea... we always re­member that word." The door provides a great way to remem­ber good times and enjoy the hilarious things that people say everyday. According to Scalise, "Our door is the result of four years of fun." 
A quick look at any door can sometimes yield information about the people within. Barbra Giannicchi's door is filled with postcards and souvenirs from her year in Rome. "My experi­ences abroad are an Important part of my life. I would rather show some of the highlights in a place where people can see them instead of tucked away in a photo album," says Giannicchi. 
thought it might be a. good idea 
to form a club." 
They placed an ad In The Ob­server asking If anyone was in­terested in such an endeavor. When this also drew a favorable response, they flied an applica­tion with the Student Activities Board and were granted permis­sion to form the Notre Dame Jug­gling Club. 
Over 1 00 people expressed in­terest in membership at their booth on Activities Night in Sep­tember, and the group now has at least 25 members who come out either Thursday at 6 p.m. or Sunday at 1 p.m. to juggle. 
"Everyone in the group can juggle at least three juggling balls," said Lane. "We also juggle things like pins, rings, bean bags, 'devil sticks' and tennis balls." 
The club dues were spent on this type ofjuggling equipment. Club members are currently working on two, three and four­man team patterns for variety, and one member Is now working on perfecting his unicycle act. 
According to Dunne, learning the skill is not that difficult. Some can pick up the basic pattern in 10 minutes, while some may take an hour. The most Impor­tant qualities needed to be a good juggler, says Dunne, are general eye-hand coordination and the ability to make each suc­cessive throw identical. "A little bit of luck wouldn't hurt either," he added. 
The group juggles mostly for personal enjoyment, but they also appreciate the attention of spectators who pass by on their 

Some Stanford Hall residents take another approach to the art of door decorating. According to Pat Muetilberger, "Doors are for Doors albums." Muehl berger ex­presses his admiration for The Doors by placing his favorite al­bums on his door and by periodi­cally shouting. "Jim lives" out of his window. 
Of course, Christmas is the peak of the door-decorating season. Everyone pulls out the wrapping paper, ribbons and snow flakes around this time of year. Don Ziliak and Dan O'Brien are known for their tasteful any situation. Created In 198L Its purpose is to provide first aid care at events on both campuses and classes to those interested in receiving instruction. Besides support from their 86 volunteer mem­bers, they receive help through private donations, the NVA and the St. Joseph's Hospital Chapter of the Red Cross. 

With the coverage this branch gives the campuses, there really is no need to worry if an emergency situation arises. All members who ac­tively work In the stations have the standard first aid and CPR skills. Some even have ad­vanced first aid or are emer­gency medical technicians who are just one step below ambulance paramedics. As holiday door displays. According associate coordinator Beth 
to Zlliak. "It just isn't Christmas Chalecki says, "Red Cross Is a until we say it's Christmas." 

kind of community service where you also learn a practi­Favorite newspaper articles, cal skill." That practical skill magazine covers and Far Side Is saving a life. 
comics seem to be the campus The Red Cross providesfavorites as far as door decorat­three main services. First,ing is concerned. Of course not they have stations at all NVA everyone gets into the decora­games, including football soc­tion craze. When asked about his cer, runs and basketball. They bare door, Tom Geyer replies l'llso cover ACC events, con­"Apathy is my middle name." But certs, varsity basketball and for many, doors can provide an football, orientations, gradua­outlet for creative minds, self ex­tion and activities such as An 

pression or simply a place to Tostal. Second, they have hang a memo board with but­QRS or Quick Response Sys­terflies or unicorns. 

LQ catches on at 
f» Notr Dame 

The Observer I Robert Jones 

Juggling Club VIce-President Bill Lane (left) and President Dave Zoretlc practice their skills and entertain on North Quad. 
way to the library or to dinner. 
Although they mainly meet to practice their skills and learn new tricks of the trade, they are also 

LIFESAVERS: 
preparing for future engage­

ments. One show they are Red Cross offers assistance 
looking forward to is their per­

TRISHA CHAMBERS 
formance for the children at 

features writer
Logan Center, which Is being planned for January. Zoretic also It's Sunday afternoon, thevoiced his hopes for half-time perfect time for an excitingperformances at Notre Dame game of lnterhall football. Im­basketball games in the near fu­agine that It's the fourth quar­ture. 

ter and the score is tied 7-7. The ball Is thrown, and as itWhy all this time spent on jug­is caught there's a horriblegling? And why a juggling club? 
tackle. As the team gets overBecause It's fun. Juggling defies their disapolntment, theythe law of gravity, it's Interesting quickly notice that somethingto watch and according to Lane, is wrong. The receiver isn't"It's kind of catching." 
moving. What do they do? 
tern in which members are on 
call most evenings in case of 
an emergency. Third, classes 
are offered In standard and 
advanced first aid, CPR and 
water safety. 
Emergencies don't always 
happen at NVA games, 
though. Consider this scene: 
after an exciting night of 
studying at the library, a 
friend trips down the stairs 
and injures himself. What 
should you do? Tom Cher­
vanak. head student coordin­
ator, says "Don't move him to 
the infirmary, but call secur­
ity." There's always the possi­
bility of a head or back if1iury, 
In which case any movement 
would be harmful. Once se­
curity is called, the Red Cross 
would be notified. 
At NVA games there usually aren't too many severe injur­ies, mostly sprained ankles and bruises. But, at the Fight­Ing Irish football games there are four or five doctors pres­ent for more serious prob­lems, and there Is a nurse at the ACC for varsity basketball games and concerts. 
Chervanak has never regretted his Involvement in the Red Cross and neither have his fellow coordinators. Chris Kelling joined because as a pre-med student he wanted to "learn more about the Held and how to treat people." Dave Ragan wanted to be Involved with a student activity to help the students who participate in NVA. To Bill Fazzalaro, "Helping people In this way is something I've al­ways wanted to do." 
What Chervanak says he regrets that "no one knows who we are unless they really need us --which is really a shame." These volunteers provide an invaluable service to the students of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, but they can't do It alone. If you would like to become involved in this organization, through either classes or service, call Tom Chervanak at 283-4124. 


~------------------­

The Observer Monday, November 24, 1966-page 7 
Sports Briefs 
The SMC basketball team split a pair of games in the Saint Francis College Tournament this weekend. The Belles dropped one game to host-school St. Francis, 61-50, but rebounded to defeat Carroll College, 63-49. -The Ob­server 
Interhall football equiptment should be completely returned today from 4 to 5 p.m. at Gate 9 of the Stadium. -The Observer 
The ND women's track club will begin organized prac­tices after Thanksging break. There will be a meeting for all interested runners today 3:30p.m. in the basement of Farley Hall. For more information contact Dan (239-6989), Kathleen (4189) or Nancy (4059). -The Observer 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Pacer's coach loses return 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore.-Kiki Van­deweghe scored 23 points, in­cluding three long-range bas­kets during a fourth-quarter Portland surge, as the Trail Blazers downed Indiana 108-95 last night to spoil the return to Memorial Coliseum of Pacers Coach Jack Ramsay. 
Ramsay, who coached the Trail Blazers for 10 years before he was fired after last season, received a standing ovation from the Portland crowd before the game. 
But the Blazers, who have won seven of their last nine NBA games to climb above the .500 mark for the first time this season, weren't as kind to the Pacers. 
Box Score 
Notre Dame  7  0  3  9  -19  
Louisiana St.  14  0  0  7  -21  
Scoring  

LSU -Davis 13 pass from Hodson (Browndyke kick) 
NO -Brown 96 kickoff return (Carney kick) 
LSU -Magee 4 pass from Hodson (Browndyke kick) 
NO -Carney 31 FG 
NO -Carney 44 FG 
LSU -Kinchen 4 pass from Hodson (Browndyke kick) NO-D. Fransisco 14 pass from Andrysiak (pass failed) 
ND LSU Firat downs 17 21 Rushing attempts 41 47 Nel Yards Rushing 137 142 Net Yards Passing 133 245 
Passas camp-attempted 13-26 21-30 Had Intercepted 1 2 Total Net Yards 270 387 Fumbles-lost 1-1 4-0 Penalties-yards 2-20 6-50 Punts-average 3-26.7 4-43.8 lndlvtduel LHdere 
RUSHING-Noire Dame: Andryslak 6-50; Johnson 8-19; Beuerteln 7-16; Benke 4-13; Jefferson 2-10; Brown 5-9; Louisiana St.: Jean Batiste 13-62: Wil­liams 20-52: Martin 8-30; Fuller 1-6; Hodson 5-(-8); 
PASSING -Noire Dame: Beuertein 7-18-1. 50; Andryslak 6-8-0,83; Louisiana St.: Hodson 20-28­2.248; Guidry 1-2-0. -3; 
RECEIVING -Noire Dame: Jackson 3-35; Wil­liams 2-13; Eason 1-24; Ward 1-18; Brown 1-10; Louisiana Sl.: Davis 7-121; Martin 3-29: Kinchen 2-27; 

Close loss builds Irish frustrations as big victory proves elusive again 
By MARTY STRASEN Assistant Sports Editor 
BATON ROUGE, La. Although it's not much in the way of consolation, Notre Dame certainly has given the national-television people some down-to-the-wire football games this season. 
And while that's just fine for the ratings, you have to wonder when the Irish are going to come out on top in one of these thrillers. Saturday's 21-19 loss to LSU had Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz doing just that -wondering. 
"Unbelievable," said Holtz, who was sitting on a table just outside the visitors' locker room talking to reporters. "You've got to be kidding me. Those are my two favorite ex­pressions. Unbelievable and you've got to be kidding me." 
The Tigers were not kidding, however. Time after time they came up with the big play to thwart the second-half com­eback efforts, and caused this game to look like all but one of the other five Notre Dame losses this season. 
In games against Michigan (24-23), Michigan State (20-15), Pittsburgh (10-9) and last week against Penn State (24-19), the Irish have managed rallies late in the contest only to fall just short in the end. Take out a 28­10 loss at the hands of Ala­bama, and 4-6 Notre Dame has dropped five games by a grand total of 14 points -and all be­cause it could not come up with the big play to finish on top. 
"It's particularly frustrating this year," said tight end Joel Williams, who had the potential-winning touchdown pass jarred from his hands against the Nittany Lions last week, and saw a potential tying pass sail past his fingertips as he tried to stay in bounds on a two-point conversion attempt late in Saturday's game. "We've been losing all the close ones and winning all the blowouts. The frustration tends to add up. These are tough ones to lose." 

LSU outside linebacker Ron Sancho pressured Irish back­up quarterback Terry Andrysiak on the play, with 
3:32 on the clock, forcing him to hurry the throw. 
"It just goes to show that, with the schedule we play, you have to be at your best every week," said Williams. "You come out of a great game like last week's and it's almost a false high because you think you can play at the same level. It took us until the second half to get fired up." 
Right when the Irish flame was finally burning, however, a tenacious, hard-hitting LSU defense stamped it out and turned the game back in the Tiger's favor -on more than one occasion. 
With the chance to take their first and only lead of the game late in the third quarter, the Irish got a break as Steve Lawrence returned an inter­ception to the LSU two-yard line to set up a first-and-goal situation. 
Fullback Pernell Taylor pounded into the line twice to move the ball inches from the goal line, and an Anthony Johnson leap was met by inside linebacker Toby Caston on third down. On fourth-and-goal from the one, senior safety Steve Rehage read the play, shed a blocker and wrapped up Irish flanker Tim Brown for a four-yard loss. 
John Carney nailed a 49-yard field goal into a slight wind late in the first half, apparently pul­ling Notre Dame to within four at 14-10. But the officials sig­naled LSU on an offside call before the snap, and Carney's 44-yard try on the ensuing play was wide to the left. 
"Isn't that amazing?" asked Holtz with a smile. "Two straight times we've come oh­so close. This is getting ridiculous. These things really exhaust you. I know how it is on me. It's getting incredible." 
"We couldn't take advantage of our chances and that's just all-too-familiar," said senior quarterback Steve Beuerlein. "They say when you pay your dues, sometime it's going to go your way. I'm just wondering when it's going to even up. 
"For the seniors, they keep saying it will help us in the fu­ture -make us better people. But I'd rather be a little worse of a person and have a few more wins." 
Loss 
continuedjrompage 12 
It appeared the Irish would enter the dressing room only down by four after the slow of­fensive showing in the first half, as Carney booted a 49­yard field goal into the wind with less than a minute left. LSU had gone offside before the snap, however, and Carney was wide on the subsequent 44­yarder. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObnrYer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. unll13 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classlfleds Is 3 p.m. All classlfleds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge Is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 EXPERT TYPING SERVICE MRS COKER. 233-7009. typ1ng 277-9649  CALL  Helpl I lost my keys on Nov. 14,1986 somewhere on campus between the north dining hail and lhe architecture bldg. I really need my keys lo get into my apartment There are approximately 7 keys on !his typical round. brown, wooden key chain. You know, the one with lhe NO insignia on 11. II found. please call £272-8839. I'd really appre­ciate it.  LOST: LONG BLACK DRESS COAT OF GREAT VALUE AT DILLON FORMAL. PLEASE RETURN. REWARD. CALL LISA 284-4329. ................................................... LOST--SILVER BRACELET 11119 ROSES MAKE UP FRONT OF BRACELET AND PICTURES OF MARY ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE. CHAIN-LIKE MAKE-UP. PLEASE RETURN ••MUCH PERSONAL AND SENTIMENTAL VALUE.. SHANNON x4045 REWARD.  Earn $480 weekly, $60 per hundred en­velopes sluffed. Guaranteed. Homeworkers needed for company proj­ect stuffing envelopes and assembling materials. Send stamped self-addressed envelope to JBK Maiicompany, P.O. Box 25-66. Castaic, CA 91310. Need ride lo Cincinnati for Thanksgiving. leave anytime. Will share expenses. Please call Mike at 2129.  Need GA Tix for Indiana Game. Will pay big bucks. Call Emil or Jeff al 288-1044 between Bam and 5pm. PERSONALS OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, CAAAYOUTT03A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN.  SENIORS, SENIORS SIGN-UPS FOR FINAL WEEK OF ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS TODAY AND TOMORROW CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA­VICES OFFICE. SENIORS. SENIORS SIGN-UPS FOR FINAL WEEK OF ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS TODAY AND TOMORROW  
TO THE GIRL WHO FOUND A BOU­QUET OF WHITE ROSES WITH REO TIPS ON THE PARKING LOT OF SAINT MARY'S MADELEVA -HELD TO­GETHER WITH A LITTLE lAO~ DOG...KEEP THE ROSES I BUT I DO NEED THE PUPPY BACK. GREAT (and lh1s cannot be emphasiZed enough) SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALL 289 -7219. Reward (more roses?)  LOST: Women's Gold Seiko Quartz Watch--Somewhere between stadium and Keenan. High sent value. II found please call 3405 HELPI lfosl my ID. key, dexlex and my life if I don't get them back. H was Friday n~ghl somewhere between 3rd floor PW and Brtdgel"s. I had It ail In a lillie red plastic case. Please help me--Beth Loh­ lost LIGHT GRAY LAMBSWOOL SCARF. probably In South Dining Hall. Call Elaine at 272-6016 a«er 7 pm. REWARD$$. FOUND: PAIR OF BLUE GLOVES. CALL272-3317. FOUND IN FRONT OF POOL BY LIBRARY WEDNESDAY.  HEY YOU FROM ST. LOU! I NEED A AIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR THANKSGIVING DESPERATELY! CALL JIMMY AT 3131, PLEASEI ......................................... RIDE WANTED lo DETROIT area forT­break. Will pay. Call Bob x3475.  SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS for $$$. I Present this ad and receive an add~ionai 10% OFF of any used book in slorel LARGE selection of CIIM.1onarch Noles. PANDORA'S BOOKS. 808 Howard St., just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233·2342 OPEN 7 Days a week. 10-530 Need ride E.,.tlll  CAREER AND PLACEMENT SEA­VICES OFFICE SENIORS, SENIORS SIGN-UPS FOR FINAL WEEK OF ON­CAMPUS INTERVIEWS. TODAY AND TOMORROW. CAREER AND PLACEMENT SER­VICES OFFICE  
WOADPROCESSING 277-8131 Prof8U10081 word proceUing 88MC8S ol lenn paper~. resumes. me1~nga. etc. Center Servlcea Company. convenienlty located in downtown South Bend. Mondlly-Fnday. 8 a.m. -5 p.m.• 282­8550 NOW doing typing for students. 729 So.Walnut. Call 232-t 883  muller al C1 564. Loa!: A set of dorm keys and some bas­ketba~ tickets somewhere between Bridget"s and Keenan. Please call Fred al 3402 wilh info. LOST Saturday. 11 -15. at Theodore"• a Notre Dame Jacket wilh lhe name In the inside right front If you have H please give me a call al 1 759 ask for Candy.  LOST: Brown leather briefcase with combinalion-locl< catches from the library concourse on 1111996. I desperately need the contents of the briefcase if noth­ing else. II found. please return to 301 O"Shag or call 277-6995. LOST: BLUE SKI GLOVES IN EITHER O"SHAG OR CUSHING ON WEDNES­DAY 11119. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL ED AT 234-7564. TANKS!  RIDE FOR 2 OR 2 RIDERS NEEDED TO ROCH. SHARE EXP. CALL JOE 1582 NEED AIDE TO KANSAS CITY. MO. OVER THANKSGIVING BREAK. CALL GREG AT 4352. I NEED A RIDE TO PITIS. FOR BREAK! JANICE SMC-4095  I need a ride lo Pftteburgh over Thanksgiving break. II you are going east on the turnpike and can offer me a ride. call Mary at 3726. Share usual expanses. Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery Hours: Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Fnday 5pm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 4pm-10pm TWO PEOPLE NEED AIDE TO  hey gooae.i'm In !he mood for love (ht sign)-mooae ............................................................. .. RIDERS NEEDED lfflllffll to D.C. area for Thanksgiving break. leaving Tueeday 8\/ening. Call George 3836 USC THE ONLY THING TO HATE ABOUT CALIFORNIA GO IRISH BUST  
PITT CLUB BUS SEATS STILL AVAILABLE For further Info. calf Mike x3402 or Rob •16t2 LOST/FOUND I  HELP! I LOST MY ORIVER"S LICENSE. I HOPE NO ONE THINKS THEY CAN GET AWAY WITH USING IT (I"M 21) IF YOU FOUND IT, PLEASE RETURN IT AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. ITS AN IOWA LICENSE-PROBABLY LOST AT SMC. CALL 284-5230 IF FOUND. PLEASE RETURNIf  '---_FO_R_R_EN_T~' UNIVERSITY PARK APTS UNIVERSITY PARK APTS Need 1 or 2 roommates for spring. NO LEASE OBLIGATION Com­pletely furnished except for your room!  I.___FO_R_S_A_LE___, FUTONS: 100% canon sleep mattressas. hardwood convertible frames and aoces­sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South Michigan St. 233-8176.  ANYWHERE ALONG INTERSTATE 90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO. WILL SHARE EXPENSES. PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. BERLIN TIX ON SALEII Sun. Nov. 23. Mon. Nov. 24 New Orleans Room. LaForlune Student Center 8 p.m.-10 p.m.  THE TROJANS T-SHIRTS BY THE SO. CAL CLUB. GET THEM FROM BETH 433 FARLEY. RIDERS NEEDED TO LONG ISLAND NY LEAVE WEO. lOAM. SHARE EX­PENSES X1157  
MUST SELL-ticket lo San Francisco for  ONLY $5.00 Ill  
LOSTII MY KEYS. Five keyo on a brass NO keychaln. One of the kayo is blue Please call Stephanie at 277-8241 . Thanks!  LOST-a dark grey herringbone !weed sport coal at lhe SMC Junior Class For­mal on Fnday. Nov. 14. II has a label wilh "Old Crue" on !he inside lining and  CALL AL or KEVIN al 277-8938. Furnished roorT>Ilouse for rent2 blocks E of campus. 1 roommate.272-0127  turkey day. Plane leaves South Bend Wed. returns Sun. Call nm al 2053. Wan! basketballlickels? Good seal-sec­ presented by SAB L 0 U I S V I L l E I I I I f I I I'M GIVING  Thanks St. Jude ANNE DOYLE Happy 21st Blrlhdayf Get ready for lhe worst night of your fife ..  
HEAR VE. HEAR YE. If you lost an H.P. calculator before break, call14121o iden­lily a.a.a.p. lost· Fur hal, russian style on Thursday Nov 13 1n library AudHorium or Cec build­Ing between 7 and 9 pm.l got H from Ruula and w111 never go beck again. Call 277-2282.  the pockets are still sewn shu!. Please return-reward olfered. Call Mike at 283­3444. PLEASE HELP ME FINO MARQUETTE 10 & KEYS. SMC ID & KEYS, GLOVES. SCARF & JEAN JACKET TAKEN FROM THEOOOAES ON SAT. NIGHT. PLEASE CONTACT SHANNON AT 284­4061.  lion 5. row 5. Make an offer close to reg. price. Tom or Joe X1945I WANTED I ,.---""""__.... _........_...... ____, Waitresses. Waiters needed al Knoi­~..I ___T_IC__K_ET__S____, iwood Country Club. No experience nec­essary. Knoilwood Country Club, 16633 I NEED INDIANA & N CAROLINA Baywood Or., Granger, ln.• 277-1541. TIXS.272-6306  AIDES ON MONDAY THE 24TH. CALL 3670 AND ASK FOR NED. ALSO. CfN­CINNATTI f I I II Ill "HAVE YOURSELF A MERRY LITTLE CHRISTMAS" COMING DEC. 3  Love, Bozo Thank you Sl. Mary and St Jude. GAR ............................................ All people going on SAB trip lo U.S.C. pick up llckels al travel agency on Mort­day (Today). Waivers must be signed. ...................................... THANK YOU. ST. JUDE  


-----~--' ~-------­

--------~~--~ --­
The Observer 

The Obs~erve~like Maureen Shea dives for a loose ball in Notre Irish then fell to Purdue on Saturday. Brian 0' Dame's victory against Northern Illinois. The Gara has the rundown in his story below. 
Irish volleyball winds up big year with a win and error-filled defeat 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
It has been a Cinderella-like season for the Notre Dame vol­leyball team. The Irish, who finished last season with a 12-19 record, ended 33-7 this fall while breaking several school records. The ball continued Friday against Northern Illi­nois, but the clock struck mid­night Saturday as the Irish dropped their season finale in a heartbreaking loss to Purdue, 10-15, 15-11, 9-15, 14-16. 
The Irish played their final home match Friday afternoon and proceeded to record their 20th three-game sweep of an opponent, rolling over Nor­thern Illinois 15-6, 15-7, 15-6. This was the final home match for seniors Mollie Merchant and Karen Sapp, both four-year monogram winners. 
Notre Dame took the eve­ning's first game with near­flawless execution and a strong performance by sophomore Zanette Bennett. Bennett broke an early 3-3 tie with a block, then proceeded to add two kills and a service ace in an Irish run that resulted in a 15-6 vic­tory. 
Game two began in the same manner, with the two teams battling to a 6-6 tie. Freshman Kathy Cunningham broke the tie with a kill, then made an outstanding dig off a Northern Illinois spike that led to a Ben­nett kill and an 8-6 Irish lead. The Irish then put up a strong defensive effort at the net with blocks by sophomores Mary Kay Waller and Maureen Shea, and Bennett put the game away with another kill for a 15-7 Irish win. 
The Irish completed the rout with a strong team perfor­mance in game three. Bennett and Shea scored two kills each as the Irish jumped out to 7-3 lead, then pulled away for a 15­6 win and a three game sweep of the match. 
The Irish knew a victory would not be so easy Saturday as they traveled to Purdue to face a hungry Boilermaker team which defeated Notre Dame handily in September. 
The Irish jumped out to a quick 9-1 lead with the hustle and determination of a team looking for a bid to the NCAA Tournament. The Irish frontline played tenacious defense at the net while fresh­man setter Taryn Collins set the Irish hitters Waller, Shea and Kathleen Morin. 
A timely Purdue time-out brought the fun and games to an end, however, as the Boiler­makers regrouped to battle back and tie the score at 10-10. A key first game win had suddely turned into a tie, and Purdue maintained their mo­mentum over the frustrated Irish to pull it out, 15-10. 
The two teams traded the lead back and forth in game two as they battled to a 7-7 tie. Enter sophomore Whitney Shewman off the Irish bench. Shewman quickly recorded four kills and a solo block to lead the Irish to a 15-11 victory. 
In the pivotal third game of the evening, Purdue denied the Irish any chance for momen­tum by jumping out to a 4-0 lead. Collins finally ended the Boilermaker run with a quick dump over the net and then combined with Waller for two blocks as the Irish tied the score 4-4. But the Boilermakers stiffened its defense and found several holes in the slow­reacting Irish defense to run away with a 15-9 win and take a 2-1lead in games. 
With their backs to the wall, the Irish battled Purdue to a 7-7 tie behind Shewman's kills and two service aces by Cun­ningham. The two teams traded point-for-point to a 13-13 tie before Shewman tipped a kill past the Boilermakers at the net to bring the Irish one point from tying the match and forcing a fifth game. But the Irish failed to score the elusive 15th point, and put two kills into the net as the Boilermakers came back to close the door, winning 16-14. 
Irish Coach Art Lambert 
summed up the loss, the first 
for the Irish since October 22, 
in two words. 
"Unforced Errors." 
"We had thirteen reception errors off their serves. That's 13 points. You can't give up 13 points and beat a team like Purdue," said Lambert. 

Not so coincidentally, the Irish lost the three games by a total of, you guessed it, thirteen points. 
"There's no question we could have won," said Lam­bert. "We just gave it to them. If you play well and lose there is nothing you can do. We didn't play well. A loss is a loss but you hate to lose that way. But we've had a superb season. Nobody has to hang their head." 
Shewman led the Irish against Purdue with a season­high 15 kills for a .542 percentage. Shea added 11 kills to the Irish offensive effort. 
the ''GOLDER DOME'' 
in a 5-color limited edition lithograph by 
(see it hanging in the OBSERVER office.) edition: 950 artist proofs: 50 Price *30.00 PosT PAID 
Send check or M.O. to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO 1704 Morton Avenue Elkhart, IN 46516 IND. Orders Add 6% Ta.x/Bhip 1 Wk. 
Monday, November 24, 1986 -page 8 

NFL roundup 
Bears squeak past Pack 
Associated Press 
Not even the return of Jim McMahon could get the Chicago Bears' offense un­tracked. 
The starting quarterback for the NFL champions returned to the lineup yesterday after mis­sing more than a month with a shoulder injury. Still, the Bears barely squeaked past the last­place Green Bay Packers 12-10 in a vicious renewal of their NFC central rivalry. 
Kevin Butler's 32-yard field with 2: 37 to play lifted Chicago, 10-2, in the 133rd meeting be­tween the teams. McMahon completed just 12 of 33 passes for 95 yards and was inter­cepted three times as he won his 23rd consecutive start. He rushed six times for 64 yards and was replaced in the fourth quarter by Mike Tomczak. 
The Bears fell behind 10-9 when Ed West beat safety Dave Duerson for a 46-yard touch­down pass from Randy Wright with 7:49 remaining. But Duer­son recovered a fumble by Gary Ellerson at the Green Bay 34 and Walter Payton carried three times to move Chicago to the 14-yard line, setting up the winning field goal. 
Butler had missed his previ­ous four field goal tries. 
Payton carried 17 times for 85 yards for the Bears, who have scored only 85 points in their last six games. 
The Bears' defense ac­counted for nine points. Dennis Gentry recovered a punt blocked by Shaun Gayle in the end zone for a touchdown in the second quarter, shortly after Green Bay's Charles Martin had flagrantly roughed . McMahon. Martin was ejected from the game. 
"I've been the victim of a lot of late hits but nothing that bla­tant," McMahon said. 
"That's an individual doing that. I don't think they coach it," said Bears Coach Mike Ditka, adding, "There are few 
DISCOUNT RECORDS & 
1631 E. EDISON, JUST OFF NO CAMPUS 
10-9DAILY 11-7SUNDAY 


teams I'd rather beat more than Green Bay." 
Earlier, with Chicago at the Packers' 1, William "The Refrigerator" Perry fumbled and John Dorsey recovered for the Packers. Three plays later, Dan Hampton nailed Ken Davis in the end zone for a safety and a 2-0 Chicago lead. 
Browns 37, Steelers 31 
Bernie Kosar hit rookie Webster Slaughter with a 36­yard touchdown pass with 8: 23 left in overtime as the Browns completed their first sweep of the Steelers since 1969. 
Kosar finished with 28 com­pletions in 46 attempts for 414 yards and two touchdowns, sur­passing his career best of 401 yards achieved two weeks ear­lier against Miami. 
Cleveland, 8-4, remained tied with Cincinnati for first place in the AFC central. The loss mathematically eliminated Pittsburgh, 4-8, from the divi­sionrace. 
Giants 19, Broncos 16 
The Giants also won late in a game for the second straight week, thanks again to placekicker Raul Allegre. With six seconds left, Allegre kicked his fourth field goal of the game, a 34-yarder. Last week, he beat Minnesota with a field goal in the final seconds. 
Cardinals 23, Chiefs 14 
Neil Lomax, back from a two-week benching, passed for three touchdowns, to to J.T. smith and one to Roy Green. Lomax, who was replaced by Cliff Stoudt for the last two games, hit Green for a 5-yard score, and connected on 25-and 4-yard passes to Smith in the second half. 
Kansas City fell to 7-5, severely damaging its playoff hopes. 
CASH OR TRADE 
for your used 
Ips-to -cds 




The Observer 
Monday, November 24, 1986-page 9 
.... 
,..... 
.........lllli.UJ .......~~·.
"fi '"•·.· .,,,, 
~~·~.· '.!~~~; 
~~~-~·~ 
.,,,~ ,.~ 

The ObserverMichael Ury The men's and women's swimming teams were on the men's team's victory over Ferris State in action this weekend and came home with and the women's team's loss to Northern Mic­different results. Theresa Kelly has the story higan at right. 
Tyson gains respect in Berbick KO but Spinks not convinced of ability 
Associated Press 
LAS Vegas, Nev. -Mike 
Tyson became a heavyweight 
champion to rave reviews, but 
there were some reservations. 
"I think he will be a very great champion," Trevor Ber­bick said after Tyson scored a sensational second-round knockout over him Saturday night to win the World Boxing Council title. "I think he has a very good chance to be the un­disputed champion.'' 
One thing is certain, the onetime juvenile delinquent is the star of a division in need of a personality. 
The 20-year-old Tyson, the youngest-ever heavyweight champion, is next scheduled to fight at Las Vegas on March 6 against the winner of Tim With­erspoon's Wprld Boxing Asso­ciation title defense against Tony Tubbs Dec. 12 at New York. 
Trainer Angelo Dundee, who worked in Berbick's corner, feels either Witherspoon or Tubbs has the style to beat Tyson. Both are strong and good defensive fighters. 
"Anybody can hit somebody who's not hitting back," said Michael Spinks, the Interna­tional Boxing Federation 
~~0 

~ 
t::Jv; 
champion, who was at ringside at the Las Vegas Hilton. 
Berbick threw 38 punches and landed 13. Tyson was credited with 106 punches and 59 hits. 
Under the format of the HBO television series of heavyweight title fights, Spinks is scheduled to fight the winner of the Tyson-WBA championship match. 
That is supposed to be Spinks' next fight. But Butch Lewis, the promoter who has guided Spinks' career, strongly indicated it won't be. 
"I'm going to do what's best for Michael," said Lewis, who is co-promoting the HBO series with Don King. "I'm not going to allow other fighters to stay active while Michael stays dor­mant." 
The IBF has said Spinks must make a mandatory defense against Tony Tucker in January. Such a fight would be outside the series. 
But Lewis said Spinks will not fight Tucker next. 
"If I'm going to take a fight outside the series, it's going to be meaningful and lucrative," he stated. 
Asked if he was thinking of a Spinks-Gerry Cooney fight, Lewis said, "Possibly, yes. I'm 

Have you seen us running around with a video camera taping senior class events, football games, candids and campus shots? 
We want you on your video! Any events coming up that you'd like on the video? Call Michelle 284-5096 
going to be on top of it, begin­ning Monday. " 
Dennis Rappaport, Cooney's manager, said Sunday by tele­phone from New York that he would welcome such a fight. 
Cooney is supposed to fight Dec. 26 at Atlantic City, N.J., in what would be his first bout since May, but Rappaport said, "There's a good chance it won't take place." 
William "The Bayou Moose" Thomas, who was supposed to the opponent, has increased his purse demands and another op­ponent must be found. 
Tyson's victory climaxed a whirlwind schedule of 28 fights in a little less than 21 months. 
The street-tough youngster from Brooklyn, N.Y., was put on the road to the title by the late boxing teacher, Cus D'Amato, who had guided the careers of Floyd Patterson, the previous youngest heavyweight champion, and Jose Torres, a former light heavyweight champion. 
Tyson was introduced to D' Amato at age 13 when he was an inmate at a school for boys in upstate New York. D'Amato watched Tyson spar and told him that if he listened and worked hard he would be a champion. 

ND swim teams split in weekend road meets 
By THERESA KELLY in addition to teaming up to win Sports Writer the 400-medley relay. Another double winner for 
The Notre Dame men's and the Irish was freshman Ed women's swim teams travelled Veome, who won both the one to Ferris State in Big Rapids, and three meter springboard Mich., on Saturday. The Irish diving events. teams competed against differ­The Irish men showed out­ent schools and came away standing team depth. In addi­with different results. tion to placing first or second 
The men's team, with an out­in every event, the Irish swim­
standing showing of the Irish mers placed in two of the topstrength and depth, defeated three positions in 8-of-the-11 in­Ferris State, 119-90. The Irish dividual events . won eight of the thirteen events The women's team was up and had at least one of the top against a tough Northern Mic­
two finishers in every event. higan team at Ferris State. The 
The 400-yard medley relay Irish came away losing 120.5 to was won by the Irish team of 91.5 Brian Vogel, Eric Bodhan, Senior Suzanne DeVine led Mark Jensen and John Froman the Irish effort, winning the with a time of 3:43.98. Steve 1000 freestyle in 10:53.46 and Coffey won the 200-individual the 200 butterfly race in 2:15.10. medley in 2:05.65 and Roger She also finished second in the Miro won the 100 freestyle for 200 breaststroke. the Irish with a time of 49.4. Other top performers for the Charles Neidhoefer won the 200 Irish women included Amy breaststroke in 2:20.57. Darlington, who won the 200 
Sophomores Vogel and Bod­freestyle in 1:59.95 and placed han were double winners for second in the 500 freestyle. the Notre Dame team, Vogel Irish swimmer Kathy Quirk winning the 200 butterfly in won the 100 freestyle in 53.36 
2:03.61 and Bodhan taking the and finished second in the 50 200 backstroke in 2:01.77, both freestyle. 
Anchorage is chosen to host 1994 Olympics 
Associated Press 
SPARKS, Nev. -The U.S. 
Olympic Committee voted 
overwhelmingly yesterday to 
make Anchorage, Alaska, its 
representative to host the 1994 
Winter Olympics. 
The USOC's 86-member Ex­
ecutive Board also approved 
Colorado Springs, Colo., as the 
site of an Olympic Hall of 
Fame, and approved Okla­
homa City as the location for 
the 1989 U,S. Olympic Festival. 
USOC president Robert Hel­mick said the main reason for supporting Anchorage as the 
U.S. bid city for the 1994 Winter Games was that other Ameri­can cities -including Reno, Nev. -wouldn't have enough time to make an adequate presentation to the Interna­tional Olympic Committee. 
The IOC is expected to make its decision on the 1994 Winter Olympics location during the 1988 Summer Games at Seoul, South Korea. All bids must be 

1404 N. Ivy Rd, South Bend 
ROOMS AS INDIVIDUAL AS YOU 
Breakfast is on the house 
277-9682 

Come and see us-You 'II be pleasantly surprised 
·----Vz mile east of N.D. stadium----' 
submitted to the IOC by next April. 
Helmick's argument of in­adequate time for other U.S. cities to submit bids was ques­tioned by Bruce Bogaert, head of the Reno-Tahoe Winter Games Organizing Committee. 
"I think they should have given every city in the U.S. an opportunity to bid if they wanted," Bogaert said. But he said the Reno-Tahoe area would continue to bid for future Olympic games. 
Other communities that ex­pressed interest in hosting the Games included Portland, Ore.; Salt Lake City; Lake Placid, N.Y., and Denver. 
Anchorage was chosen over several cities in the battle for the 1992 U.S. bid, but the IOC last month selected Albertville, France, to host those Games. 
Rick Mystrom of the Anchorage organizing commit­tee for the Games, said the city has spent $3 million in seeking the Winter Olympics and will spend nearly that much over the next two years. 
Mystrom also said Alaska "will begin a very intensive lobbying process" to get a fa­vorable IOC vote. He said Anchorage has a good chance because it will be the first for­mal applicant for the 1994 Games. 
Anti-VIolence Activist 
Cenler lor Teaching Non-Violence & NCTV lull·flme atall. Lodging & 
S4001mo. Research on aggreaa1on, publishing & lobbying againalvlolence 1n TV, film, war loya, aporia, erotica, etc. Non-violent films. Next to u 1111no1s. Student loans delerable. 211·38.4·1920 P.O. Box 2157, Champa1gn IL 61620 
uuwww:w:wu:w:wa a 
~EED u!FT IDEAS? 
THE SNITE MUSEUM SHOP ~nas the Jnswer 
.( , ·Engagement Calendar's 
>" .) ·Pottery
.::P-: 
1 ·.;,. 
·T-Shirts ·~· ·Chnstmascards
1 
· -~ Open Mon. -Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 1:00~4:00 



The Observer Monday, November 24, 1986-page 10 

Boards 
continuedfrompage 12 
Kempton, Barlow and Dolan to get the rebounds. We're going to have to realize that they're not here anymore, and that we're going to have to work harder to get them." 
The Irish made an early rush at the Hilltoppers in the second half and closed to within 54-44 on a Donald Royal turnaround jump shot with 11:56 to go. But a key· offensive foul call on Royal (throwing an elbow on a rebound) forced him to the bench with four fouls with 11: 24 left and seemed to take the wind out of the Irish sails. 
Frank hit two shots for the Hilltoppers to stretch the lead to 14 points, and Western Ken­tucky never looked back on its way to a big victory. 
"We just didn't have inten­sity," said Royal, who led the Irish with 17 points and seven rebounds but was not at all happy with his performance. 

Associated Press 
Memphis State, scandalized by the federal indictment of its former coach and by NCAA probation, moves into the quar­terfinals of the early-season National Invitation Tournament on Monday night after a stunning first-round up­set. 
The unranked Tigers beat 20th-ranked Cleveland State 70­66 Saturday night at Memphis to reach the round of eight, against Michigan. 
The big quarterfinal matchup has seventh-ranked Oklahoma at No. 5 Nevada-Las Vegas. The other games are Temple at Villanova and Texas Christian at highly regarded Western Kentucky. 
Memphis State, already stunned by NCAA probation to both its basketball and football programs, received further bad news last Thursday when former basketball coach Dana Kirk was named in an 11-count indictment. Memphis State fired Kirk in September. 
Both the Tigers' football and basketball teams are banned from postseason action this season. 
The NIT, traditionally a postseason tournament, is holding its early-season event for the second time. 
Vincent Askew scored 20 points and had 11 rebounds, leading Memphis State's upset of Cleveland State. 
Memphis State led 65-56 with four minutes left, but Cleveland State cut the deficit to 67-64 in the next minute. 
Larry Finch, who replaced Kirk as the Tigers' coach, gave part of the credit for the victory 71-61 to earn their quarterfinal berths. Texas Christian beat Louisiana State 83-74. 
Nate Blackwell had 24 points for Temple, which won its opening game of the season for the 34th straight year. The loss snapped a 49-game home win­ning streak for Virginia. Doug West scored 18 for Villanova, which scored 17 of the first 19 points in the second half to break away from a 49-49 tie. 
Carven Holcombe scored 20 points and led a 23-2 first-half spurt that led Texas Christian over LSU, a Final Four team last season with only one re­turning starter. 
The semifinals will be played in Madison Square Garden at 

A TWO-YEAR SCHOLARSHIP {$16,000), OR New York on Friday, with the 
MAY BE EARNED BY APPLYING FOR NROTC championship and third-place 
YEAR! FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL LT. games Saturday. 
"Maybe that was because of a lack of experience, but we're going to have to start con­centrating and working harder." 
"We didn't do anyting well tonight," said Rivers. "I take full responsibility for that since I am the point guard. But we'll just have to come back to the gym, look at the films and see where we broke down. There's a lot of room for improvement, but there's also a lot of time to improve." 
Hilltopper head coach Mur­ray Arnold, in his first year at Western Kentucky, was very satisfied with the big win. 
"It's a great win for Western Kentucky," he said. "I couldn't be prouder of the kids. They played with a lot of effort. To be able to control the tempo against a very intelligient Notre Dame taem and still beat them up and down the floor and on the boards is very satisfy­ing." 
Phelps, meanwhile, looked to use the poor performance as a stepping stone to brighter showings. 
Friday night's Results Western Kentucky 80, Notre Dame 63 Western Kentucky (80) 
M  FG-A  FT-A  R  F  P  
Johnson  27  4-6  2-3  3  3  10  
Frank  29  7-13  3-4  3  4  17  
Martin  15  2-3  0-0  4  5  4  
McNary  33  2-7  8-8  4  4  12  
McNeal  22  6-11  1-2  1  1  13  
Lickliter  10-0  0-00 0 0  
Lee  18  3-5  2-2  2  0  8  
Swogger  21  2-6  0-1  6  2  4  
Tisdale  13  1-3  0-0  0  0  2  
Asberry  17  4-8  2-2  8  1  1 0  
Shelton  3  0-2  0-0  0  0  0  

Garmon 10-00-0100 
200 31-64 18-22 32 20 80 
FG Pet. -.484. FT Pet. -.818. Team rebounds -2. Turnovers -12. Assists -12 (McNary 4, Lee 4). Technicals -none. 
Notre Dame (63) 
M FG-A FT-A R F P Royal 30 6-10 5-8 7 4 17 Connor 13 0-2 0-0 1 2 0 Voce 26 0-0 4-4 3 2 4 Hicks 23 3-6 0-0326 Stevenson 31 5-8 3-4 1 1 13 Fredrick 5 0-1 0-0 1 2 0 Rivers 34 3-11 2-2 6 2 8 Nanni 1 0-0 0-0 0 0 0 Tony Jackson 3 1-1 0-0 1 1 2 Jamere Jack-24 4-7 2-2 3 2 11 son Paddock 10 1-2 0-0 3 1 2 200 23-48 16-20 29 19 63 
FG Pet. -.479. FT Pet. -.800. Team rebounds -0. Turnovers -23. Three-point shots -Jam ere Jackson (1) Assists -11 (Rivers 8). Technicals -none. 
Halftime -Western Kentucky 43, Notre Dame 25. Officials -Larry Lembo (ECAC), Tom Lopes (ECAC), Jim Burr (ECAC). A ­5,320. 

~Goclfather·s Pizza~ 
Find one. Its worth it. 
™ SUNDAY & MONDAY SPECIALS 
The Observer /David Fischer 

David Rivers' comeback was an unhappy one as Western Ken­
MEDIUM THIN CRUST PIZZA WITH ONE 
tucky powered past the Irish in the first round of the Coca-Cola 
I TOPPING PLUS EXTRA CHEESE PLUS A I
NIT Classic. Eric Scheuermann has the game story beginning on the back page. 
I TWO LITER BOTTLE OF COKE I 
$5.25 plus flU[ & delivery I
I

NIT first round ends 
I ---------•GodfattJa"s I 
I Qae.,...-............. ... ..___ ~Pizza. I1
I Noo wolid;, ...--.. ~oll"er. --"V.1F 'find OM. 
Offer expires 11/30/86 II 5 worth rt. I
with MSU upset win 
I 
AS A NAVAL AVIATOR, SUBMARINER, OR SURFACE WARFARE OFFICER. 
NAVY OFFICERS 
GET RESPONSIBIUTY FAST. 
$2,000 EXPENSE MONEY DURING YOUR SOPHOMORE WACHTL AT 239-7274. 
to freshman Sylvester Gray, who came off the bench to score 10 points and grab eight rebounds. 
"He's only practiced a week," Finch said. "Imagine what he could have done if he had a little time to work." 
Michigan advanced with a 115-107 victory over Bradley on Friday night. Gary Grant had 34 points for the Wolverines. 
Nevada-Las Vegas beat 19th­ranked Arizona 92-87, and Okla­homa downed Brigham Young 119-110 in the first round Friday night. Freddie Banks led Las Vegas with 28 points, and Gerald Paddio scored 16 in the second half as the Rebels rallied from a nine-point deficit with five minutes to play. 
Tim McCalister scored 44 points for Oklahoma, which trailed 53-51 at halftime. 
Temple beat Virginia 79-75, and Villanova downed Howard 

~--------------------~ 
We Deliver to a Limited Area 
52920 US 31 North South Bend, IN 
SOPHOMORES~ 
WHY WAIT UNTIL SENIOR YEAR TO CONDUCT YOUR JOB INTERVIEWS? UPON ACCEPTANCE INTO THE NROTC PROGRAM YOU WILL HAVE A 
POSITION OF GREAT CHALLENGE, RESPONSIBILITY, AND ADVENTURE AWAITING YOU 


----------------~---------------------­
'JI['~4tJil4tll~--------------------------------------------------------M•o•n•d•ay•,•N•o•v•em
..be•r•2•4•,1•9•86•-•p•a•g•e..ll 
Berke Breathed 


SAB presents: 
BERLIN TIX FOR SALE!! 
New leans Room-LaFortune Student Center 8pm-10pm 
$5. 00(thars right-only $5) 
(In concert Thursday, Dec.4 at Stepan Center-8pm) 

Bloom County 
CON&KIIT5. 
~~­
Y()(/U 8€ Of{. I'M OVR {;() HIIPrr', PI?VMMCR. Jlf( 1 
\ \ 
Beer Nuts 
HOHEWJKJ<.­
ROBYN Q&. IN AND REAP 
13 UIAPTERS OF "CONTROVER5/AL 
f(OfiJH/C /5StJf5 • 
FOK f10N{)A Y. .. HHHH ... TOVf>H CHOICE ... 

711/IT'S [5/YTU/.. o/1/ST MY 
CIITI/5TKOfHE /Jf?EIITH. 
(Jff)N 7!1£ 
\
W/N/J... 
""" 
Mark Williams 

The Daily Crossword 
Campus 
3:45p.m.: Lecture, "Between Literature and Philosophy: Theory, Practice, and Significance in Literary Studies," English Professor Gerald Bruns, Wilson Com­mons. 
6:30 p.m.: Meeting, Amnesty Interna­tional, Center for Social Concerns 
7:00 -9:00 p.m.: Workshop, "Surviving Finals Week," 119 Haggar Hall 
KEEP UPINA 
CHANGING 
WORLD 
Take advantage of the wealth of knowledge availabl1• from your Government. The U.S. Government Printing Office has produced a new catalog. It tells about the most popular books sold by the Government-nearly 1,000 in all. Books on agriculture, business, children, diet, energy, health, history, Rpace, and much more. For a free copy of this new catalog, write-
New Catalog 
Post Office Box 37000 Washington, D.C. 20013 
Dinner Menus Notre Dame 
Roast Loin of Pork Turkey Turnovers Broccoli Quiche Tuna Melt 
Saint Mary's 
Swiss Steak Lasagna Ratatouille Crepes Deli Bar 
ACROSS 1 Carry 5 Animal 
enclosures 10 Makes lace 14 Afr. gulf 15 Like some 
angles 16 Reverberate 17 Symbol of 

wealth 19 Maple genus 20 Movable homes 21 Father or 
mother 23 Noticed 24 Edible gourd 25 Stung 28 Hero's place 31 I love: Lat. 32 Argentine 
dictator 34 Fr. river 35 King of Israel 37 Protective 
barriers 39 Gratify 40 Heron relative 42 Bothersome 

people 44 Spread hay 45 Musical person 47 Poetasters: 
var. 49 Once more 50 Source of poi 51 Regard highly 53 Amicable 57 "Where have 
you-?" 58 Two-way 
sentence 60 Loud noise 61 Actress Dunne 62 A Chaplin lady 63 Newts 64 Consumer 
advocate 65 Love god 
DOWN 1 Pastry 2 Aroma 3 Membrane 4 Sign up 5 Lurched 6 Oak producer 

1=--+--4­
7 Chaps 8 Common abbr. 9 Oozed 
10 Bouquet 
flowers 11 Emphasize 12 Next in order 13 Classify 18 Slumber 22 Turk. flag 24 First king 
of Egypt 25 Foundations 26 Insect stage 27 Championship 
series 28 Fireplace item 29 Rayed flower 30 Eng. city 

33 Mature  
36 Punee  
relatives  48 Actress  54 Entrance  
38 Kitchen  Marilyn  55 Alphabet  
utensil  50 Threefold  sequence  
41 Autocrat  51 Fr. cleric  56 Affirmative  
43 Fathered  52 Unheeding  votes  
46 Ascot fastener  53 Ran away  59 Macaw  





Monday, November 24, 1986-page 12
S~orts 

Irish fall to LSU in yet another heartbreaker Tigers look toward Sugar Bowl bid after defeating Notre Dame 21-19 
yard line and set up a first-and­
By MARTY STRASEN Kinchen, with 7:45 on the clock 

Assistant Sports Editor goal from the two with a
to put the Irish down by eight 

28-yard return, Notre Dame
once again. But as has been the 

BATON ROUGE, La. -Even had a golden opportunity to
case in four previous games

after the Tiger Stadium lights turn a 14-10 deficit into its only 
this year, Notre Dame made 

had been turned off Saturday lead of the game. Instead, the
one final run -and fell short. 

night and all that remained was Irish were stymied on rushing
Irish quarterback Steve 

a field full of sugar cubes, the Beuerlein was intercepted by attempts by Pernell Taylor party was only beginning. (two plunges), Anthony
Chris Carrier with less than 

Louisiana State had staved Johnson (who was met by a
seven minutes to play, but Hod­

off a late Irish comeback and leaping Toby Caston) and Tim 
son returned the favor with just 

held on for a 21-19 victory, it over five minutes left when Brown (stopped in the back­was now almost assured of a field for a four-yard loss by
Notre Dame senior cornerback bid to the Sugar Bowl to play Troy Wilson (10tackles) picked Steve Rehage). 

Nebraska (hence the cubes), "You have to point to that
off a pass in the end zone. 

and the music was blaring all goal-line stand as one of the key 
Enter junior signal-caller

night from the crowded things," Holtz said. "But
Terry Andrysiak, who has seen 

parking lots. Yes, they really you've also got to look at a mil­
limited action this season in 

love their defense down here in lion other things. LSU may
light of Beuerlein's impressive 

Cajun Country. have one of the best defenses
numbers (the senior stood 

The win boosts the eighth­in the nation. They attacked us
seventh in the nation in passing
ranked Tigers' record to 8-2, from all angles tonight." 
efficiency entering the game). 

while Notre Dame dropped its "Beuerlein was faking a Senior noseguard Henry second in a row and assured Thomas and junior linebacker 
pounding," said Holtz of his 

itself a sub-.500 season, sport­Nicky Hazard led the Tigers
decision to go with Andrysiak, 

ing a 4-6 mark heading into this who skippered an 80-yard with 11 tackles apiece, and Saturday's finale at USC. Thomas added a pair of sacks
touchdown march to pull the 

''LSU wanted to win and they as well. The Notre Dame
Irish to within two at 21-19 with 

played awfully well,'' said Irish defense, which looked sharp
3:32 left to go. "I told Terry

head coach Lou Holtz. "They after two long LSU touchdown
he'd go in on the next series. I 

made a lot of big plays when drives in the first quarter, was
have all the confidence in the 
The ObserverAlavid Fischer

they had to and I have to world in him." anchored by senior inside touchdown againstbelieve we played them at their Andrysiak hit D'Juan Fran­linebacker Mike Kovaleski's 11 Tim Brown returned another kickoff for a 
LSU, but it wasn't enough to prevent a 21-19loss. Marty Strasen best." stops.
cisco on a third-and-two from has all the details from the game at left, and highlights NotreAn LSU defense which was Notre Dame's offense (137

the 14-yard line to cap the Dame's frustration this season on page 7.

almost non-existent in the first yards rushing, 133 passing)
drive, but Notre Dame still 

quarter came up big every time failed to score in the first half, 
needed one more big play to tie 

it appeared Notre Dame might the only seven points coming
the game. Andrysiak tossed a 

turn things around in the pass to tight end Joel Williams on the kickoff following the first 
miitoppers rout Irish 
second half. That non­Tiger score, a 13-yard passing 
on the attempted two-point con­

existence in the opening frame, play from Hodson to all­
version, only to see it float past 

however, did not mean big yar­everything receiver Wendell 
with strong board play
Williams' fingertips.

dage for the Irish offense. Davis (seven catches, 121
"I didn't want to throw the 

Rather, it meant a lot of ball­yards, one TD). It was Brown
ball that soon," said By ERIC SCHEUERMANN Western Kentucky with 17
control time for the Tigers, as who generated the excitement, 
Andrysiak, who was pressured Sports Writer points, 11 in the first half) con­
the LSU defense took the field breaking through a group of po­
by a blitzing linebacker Ron verted a three-point play. 
for only 45 total seconds of play. tential tacklers with a sudden
Sancho on the play. "I think it It wasn't much of a begin­From that point on, the Hil­
Trailing 14-7 at halftime, burst of speed and gliding 96
might have been a different ning. ltoppers controlled the first 
Notre Dame got a pair of John story if they (the Irish offensive yards for a touchdown. The half, scoring eight straight
The Notre Dame basketballCarney field goals of 31 and 44 touchdown return was Brown's 
line) had strung the play out a team opened its season Friday points to take a 14-point lead at 
yards to cut the margin to one second on the season, and an­on
bit more." night with a less-than­33-19 a Ray Swoggerin the fourth quarter. Speaking of a possibly differ­other was . called back last impressive 80-63 loss to West­rebound bucket. With Notre 
Tiger quarterback Tom Hod­weekend against Penn State on
ent outcome, just ask Holtz how ern Kentucky in the first round Dame committing 13 turnovers 
son then struck for his third a clipping penalty. 

much goal-line stands can hurt. of the 1986 Coca-Cola NIT Clas­in the half, the dominating Hil­touchdown pass of the game, a Mter Steve Lawrence inter­sic. ltoppers went into the locker­four-yarder to tight end Brian 
cepted Hodson on the LSU 30-see LOSS, page 7 "We didn't concentrate on room with an 18-point bulge, a rebounding, and we made too hole from which the Irish would many turnovers," said Irish not recover.
Inside Monday 

head coach Digger Phelps. "I "Western Kentucky is a very page 
was very impressed with West­physical team, and theyFrustration mounts ern Kentucky, and I just wasn't pounded us on the board," said satisfied with anything we Phelps. "Key rebounding led to as bad-luck Irish can't did." their offensive scoring early, Indeed, it was a game the and we were a bit overanxious. get over the hump Irish would like to forget. Our turnovers also killed us.
7 

Notre Dame started the We just put ourselves in too big game seemingly flat, and the a hole." inspired Hilltoppers jumped The Hilltoppers did to Notre 
Volleyball season and page out to an early 8-2lead. Phelps, Dame what the Irish did to who had not started junior most every opponent last year winning streak end point guard David Rivers in the when they led the nation in hope that the Irish could play rebounding margin, as West­with loss to Purdue even without him, inserted the ern Kentucky owned the back­
8 

team leader with 15 minutes boards. The Irish were left in the first half. The small outrebounded 34-29 on the page crowd of 5,320 gave Rivers a game, with the Hilltoppers col­Men's swimmers beat standing ovation and also when lecting 16 of those on the offen­he hit an 18-foot jumper with sive glass. If they were notFerris; women lose 8:33 left the Irish were tramng scoring on their first shots, they by only a 20-16 score. were scoring on second and to Northern Mich. "I didn't want to start third chances over the flat­
9 

David," said Phelps. "I footed Irish. 
10 
page thought we could play them "The total rebouding margin even, and we could let him is deceiving," said Phelps.Memphis State upsets come off the bench after get­"They got the rebound in every ting a feel for the game." key situation, and killed us on
20th-ranked aeveland 

But the Irish would get no the offensive boards. We were closer. The Hill toppers kept the standing around waiting for
State in NIT action 

Irish behind them as 6-10 senior forward Tellis Frank (who led 
The Observer /Mike Moran 
see BOARDS, page 10 






