South Africa -page 5 

VOL. XXI, NO. 46 THURSDAY NOVEMBER 6 1986 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Theologian proclaims dissent is essential part of the Catholic Church 
By CHRIS JULKA Copy Editor 
Richard McCormick, profes­sor of Christian Ethics at Notre Dame, said in a lecture Wed­nesday night that dissent is an essential part of the Church. 
"Good teaching persuades, it doesn't just command," said McCormick "We're talking much more about response to the authentic teaching of the Church -much less about obedience. We obey dis­ciplinarians . . . What you try to do with a teaching is to make it your own. You try to assim­ilate it." 
McCormick then quoted an article by Bishop Butler: " 'The loyal Catholic will ap­proach the Church's teachings with a welcoming gratitude, along with a keen alertness of a critical mind, determined to play its own part in the ongoing purification of the Church's in­heritance.' " 
McCormick contrasted the 
Church before Vatican II since 
the Council of Trent, "the pre­
conciliar Church," with the 
Church after Vatican II, "the 
post-conciliar Church." 
The pre-conciliar Church was based on the "juridical" or "pyramidal" model, accor­ding to McCormick, "with au­thority and truth descending from the top -the Pope through the bishops, the priests to the lay people." 
The pre-conciliar Church 
also was characterized by the 
"absence of the mass media," 
according to McCormick. 
"Opinions were formed within the Church, therefore, without exposure to a variety of tradi­tions and richnesses. And I think we can honestly say that they tended -the Church state­ments -to retain their value longer than was justified.'' 
By contrast the post-Vatican­II Church is characterized by a "concentric" as opposed to pyramidal structure of author­ity, according to McCormick. "The people are the repository of wisdom and revelation.'' 
The present Church is also characterized by the "presence of the mass media," according to McCormick. "That means people are ex­posed to an awful lot. Not nec­essarily wiser, but certainly exposed to an awful lot.'' 
American Catholics now are, "much more aware of the true complexity of issues," accor­ding to McCormick. "I think it's true as Father Hesburgh said in two articles in the last · two issues of America Maga­zine that the Catholic Church in the United States has grown up.'' . 
"More than ever lay people have higher education. They have increased specialization and they're capable of taking that expertise and relating it to religious and moral questions in very enlightening ways," said McCormick. 
In the post-conciliar Church there also is, "pluralism in philosophical language and content," according to McCor­mick. "Thomism is no longer regnant. There are many 
see CHURCH, page 6 

Hiler,Ward both claiming victory in district race 
Associated Press 
South Bend, Ind. -Rep. John Hiler and his Democratic chal­lenger, Thomas W. Ward, were both claiming victory Wednes­day in the closely contested 3rd District congressional race. 
"There have been reports of our opponent gaining 2,000 votes after the unofficial results were announced," Bob Dion, press secretary for Ward said Wednesday evening. 
. Canvassers in heavily-Democratic St. Joseph County, the largest in the district, were conducting an official count of the ballots Wednesday and went home without completing their work, Dion said. They were expected to resume the canvas Thursday, he added. "We have no information to indicate any change in result from what was announced Tuesday night," he said. Ward agreed, saying that his campaign's figures match the figures respective county clerks reported Tuesday night. 
"Overnight, a discrepency of 2,000 votes emerged in the to­tals being reported and our margin dropped accordingly,'' he said at a 5 p.m. news con­ference Wednesday. "Last night the voters of the 3rd Dis­trict gave me a mandate. They selected me as their new con­gressman and I'm here to tell you that I will work to make sure the will of the voters is not tampered with.'' 
see VICTORY, page 3 

Provisions of new tax legislation could mean bad news for students 
Judicial Council finalizing Student's Rights Manual 
By MIRIAM HILL Senior Staff Reporter 
Recently passed tax legisla­tion could mean bad news for Notre Dame and other univer­sities. 
Under the provisions of the tax law signed by President Ronald Reagan two weeks ago, students will have to pay taxes on any portion of scholarships or other grants not used to pay for tuition, books or other course-related expenses. For example, scholarship money used for room and board would be taxed. 
Such aid was exempt from taxation under the old law. 
The new law, which takes ef­fect in January of 1987, applies only to those scholarships granted after Aug. 16, 1986. 
Students would only have to pay taxes on scholarships and grants if their total income exceeded $4,900, the minimum taxable amount. 
Graduate students will be hardest hit by the new law be­cause they often receive grants above the $4,900 minimum tax­able income, said Notre Dame's Director of Financial Aid Joseph Russo. 
In addition, he said, the new law makes the tax status of aid like athletic scholarships and payments to resident assis­tants uncertain. 
"The typical student doesn't receive aid in excess of tuition, books, and course-related ex­penses. At Notre Dame, that amount would be at least $9,300," Russo said. "We just don't have that kind of aid here, but there are some exceptions to that -athletes, for exam­ple.'' 
Because federal regulators are still in the process of writing the tax code, it is not clear what types of scholar­ships will be subject to taxa­tion. 
"What we're waiting for now are interpretations of what is meant by scholarships, what is meant by fellowhips, what is meant by room and board," ex­plained Kenneth Milani, Notre Dame associate professor of accountancy and Arthur Young Faculty Fellow in Taxation .. 
Besides taxing certain por­tions of scholarships, the new law eliminates deductions for interest payments on student loans. 
Russo said families could avoid losing this interest deduction by taking out a second home mortgage to pay for a child's education. Interest 
see TAX, page4 

By ROB HENNIG Senior Staff Reporter 
Finalizing the Student's Rights Manual and the suc­cess of the Legal Referral Committee were the main topics of discussion at a short Judicial Council meet­ing Wednesday night at Hayes-Healy. 
The Publicity Committee reported on the status of the Student's Rights Manual. According to. Judicial Coord­inator Maria Cintron, the manual clearly explains all the rights a student has and what a student can do when accused of a University of­fense. 
Cintron, in referring to the manual's contents, said, "It's just like all the rights you have." 
The manual, written en­tirely b.Y ~tudents, is sched­
... 
uled to be distributed to all resident assistants with the goal of having one for each room, according to Cintron. 
The Legal Referral Com­mittee reported that the le­gal referral program is proceeding well. 
Cintron said the Judiciary Council sent out 130 letters to South Bend lawyers who graduated from Notre Dame asking if they would be will­ing to provide legal services to students. There have been four responses so far, accor­ding to Cintron. One has agreed to handle civil offen­ses and another would take criminal offenses and two have said they would help in either capacity. 
"They are willing to work with students at a reduced initial rate," said Cintron. 
see COUNCIL, page 6 

•. 
In Brief 
Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory received a $10,000 grant recently from the Indiana State Aerie Frateral Order of Eagles' Art Ehrmann Cancer Fund. The grant will be used for research in prostate cancer currently being con­ducted by Dr. Morris Pollard, Lobund's director. -The Observer 
The police officer who gained fame for his part in the movie "Beverly Hills Cop" has lost a leading role in cri­minal investigations in Detroit and gained one in traffic control. Gilbert Hill, 54, had headed the department's Major Crimes Division, which investigates homicides and other serious crimes until he was transferred Monday to lead the traffic, harbormaster, aviation and mounted sec­tions. Hill played the tough-talking Inspector Todd in the movie starring Eddie Murphy. -Associated Press 
Of Interest 
"Guatemala's Uprooted Indians: Mayan Refugeed in the United States," a lecture, will be presented today at 12 p.m. in 131 Decio Hall. Speaking will be Shelton Davis, executive director of the Anthropology Resource Center, Washington, D.C. The lecture is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute. -The Observer 
"The Interview, the Job, and the Workplace" will be presented by Beta Alpha Psi today at 4:15 p.m. in 122 Hayes-Healy. Everyone is invited to attend.-The Observer 
Summer jobs, career days, guest speakers, and future alumni involvement will be discussed by the Student Alumni Relations Group and members of the Alumni As­sociation today and Friday. They will be located outside South Dining Hall today and outside North Dining Hall Friday from 5 to 6:30p.m. Hot chocolate and cookies will be served. -The Observer 
"The Christ Question: Who is Christ for Us Today?" will be discussed by Emily Binn, professor of Theology at Villanova University, tonight at 7:30 in Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The community is invited to at­tend this free lecture. -The Observer 
Monsigner Francis Sampson, Assistant to University President Hesburgb for ROTC will be the guest on tonight's WVFI-AM 640 Campus Perspectives talkshow from 10 to 
11. Speaking in honor of next week's Veteran's Day, Sampson will discuss Notre Dame's Peace Memorial and his military experiences. Host Lynne Strand will accept questions and comments from callers at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Weather 
Another beautiful day in South Bend with a partly cloudy sky and a high in the middle to upper 50s. Cloudy tonight. Low in the lower and middle 40s. A 40 p~rcent chance of rain developing Friday. High in the upper 50s and lower 60s. 


Design Editor ..... Rob "Lux" Luxem Design Assistant ......... Bob White Layout Staff. .... Christopher Frausto Typesetter . ....... Becky Gunderman News Editor ........ Ann Kaltenbach Copy Editor . ......... Rachel Jarosh Sports Copy Editor .... Marty Strasen Viewpoint Copy Alison Pivonka Viewpoint Layout ...... Alice Groner Accent Copy Editor. Caroline Gillespie Accent Layout . ..... Katy Kronenberg Typist .... : . .......... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor . ......... Bill Herzog SMC Day EditorTheresa Harrington AdDesign . ...... Catherine Ramsden Photographer ......... Robert Jones 

Tbe Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Tbe Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
Tbe Observer is a member of Tbe Assocl•ted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Theologian's view of Catholicism resembles that of a social club 
Father McBrien's recent stances on Catholic teaching have left me, though admittedly only a layperson, rather puzzled. 
First he went on national television to con­demn the Vatican's removal of Charles Curran as a Catholic theologian from Catholic Univer­sity as yet another repressive measure of a right-wing hierarchy, calling it inherently "un­workable" and claiming that it necessarily stands in opposition to academic excellence. 
Never mind that Curran publicly supports or at least condones abortion, euthanasia, homosexuality, birth control and divorce. Ac­cording to McBrien, because none of the Church's positions in these matters are items of "infallible" doctrine, like the doctrine of the trinity (and we all know how relevant this doctrine is to everyday life), these teachings are "minor" and therefore Catholic theologians should be free to speak against them publicly -not simply as American citizens, but as legitimate Catholic theologians. 
Is the possibility that abortion is murder minor then, a trifle not to be unduly concerned about? Apparently so. 
But McBrien goes much further than this. Not only should one feel free to violate the Church's "minor" teachings, but also its infal­lible doctrines as well. Thus, by pointedly reinstating Father William Storey as a graduate theology professor, McBrien reap­pointed not only a confessed homosexual, but more importantly a person who publicly professed atheism. How can there be any real room for a doctrine of the trinity if there is no God to be triune in the first place? Clearly then, despite McBrien's qualifier, denunciations of infallible doctrine are not objectionable either. 
What is puzzling is where McBrien draws the line. Perhaps he wants to incorporate demo­cratic, pluralistic ideology into Catholicism. This is fine as far as it stands, for we all know how fantastically efficient and just democracy is. But it seems that McBrien is more intent on making Catholicism suit his own preconceived notions about the superiority and desirability of democracy rather than building a demo­cratic political philosophy on Catholic prin­ciples. 
If pluralistic dissent is so important for a healthy academic atmosphere, for instance, would McBrien object to appointing Adolf Hitler or Karl Marx as a Catholic theologian at Cath­olic University? Why not? Both discoursed about God or his nonexistence and both ques­tioned the Church's moral stances. To dis­criminate against any person on the basis of his ideological persuasions or theological views 

(/) ~ (! ~)· 
would be to contradict those grand principles of pluralism, free thought, democracy and the toleration of dissent -in short the very essence of Christianity, according to McBrien. 
I am sure that, holding true to these prin­ciples, McBrien would be just as indignant if the Pope tried to remove Hitler or Marx as theologians, for clearly the Pope does not know what Catholic theology is really all about. 
Assuming I get no letter to the effect that Father McBrien is the Way and the Truth and thus has the privileged right to make dis­criminations above and against the Pope in these areas after all, I would like to ask the following: What's so special about being a Cath­olic theologian if anyone could be one, regard­less of whether he holds to atheism or the ac­ceptability of euthanasia, abortion, or homosexuality? Why do we have a theology de­partment at all? Why do American bishops make long pronouncements on the American economy and defense posture, as if somehow their opinions are special from all the others? 
Or for us laypeople, what's so special about being Catholic? Is it our Irishness, Italienness or Germanness? Is it our rituals? Is it our social connections? Or is the true essence of Cat­holicism the multi-national corporation based in Rome with a local headquarters at Notre Dame? 
Ifsomeone can enlighten me in these matters, let him do so. But I do not see how McBrien's version of the Catholic Church could be anyth­ing more than a gentlemen's social club, a fraternity, a big business. 
Thankstoyou ... 
itwor1cs... 
Unitedway
• 

PART TIME SALES HELP WANTED AT GOODWILL PLAZA STORE 
on Howard & Eddy atfive points. 
FLEXIBLE HOURS, WEEKLY PAY, AND STORE DISCOUNT. 
Call Mrs. Daughtry 234-1661 

-----------------~~-~ 
Despite election, Reagan asks staff 'to complete the revolution begun' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Reagan acknowledged Wed­nesday the election did not pro­vide the outcome he sought but he asked his staff to stick with him in the twilight of his presidency "to complete the revolution that we have so well begun." 
In a subdued but character­istically upbeat speech to White House aides a day after his 25,000-mile campaign to preserve a Republican Senate ended in disappointment, Reagan said, "For two years more, my friends, let us make history together." 
Drawing a line for his 1984 re-election campaign pitch, he insisted Washington "ain't seen nothin' yet." 
The president called Tues­day's election results, in which the Republicans scored vic­tories in important guber­natorial races but lost the Sen­ate for which he had campaigned hardest, "fairly good news" overall. 
Reagan's chief political strategist, Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., told reporters the loss of the Senate "was just a story of close elections, and our good fortune ran out." He recalled that the Republicans had won 17 of the 21 Senate races decided by two percentage points or less in 1980, 1982 and 1984 and said, "Last night, Lady Luck evened the score." 
"This is not the outcome we sought," the president ac­knowledged, "but our agenda remains unchanged, and I look forward to its attainment." 
"Even in this hotly contested race, we enjoyed widespread support on the issues that we campaigned on," Reagan said. He cited his economic policies, appointment of tough judges to the federal bench, "and a strong defense, especially SDI," the Strategic Defense Initiative aimed at developing 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------1 
I  
I I  COMPUTER DATE APPLICATION  
I  
NAME  ____________________________________  
Phone Number ___________________  
Year ______________________________________________ _  
Sex ________________________________________  

1. What is the first thing you look for in a date.? 
a. 
looks 

b. 
personality 

c. 
sense of humor 

d. 
common interests 

e. 
intelligence 



2. How would you describe yourself? 
a. 
outgoing 

b. 
athletic 

c. 
shy 

d. 
funny 



3. What is your favorite type of date? 
a. 
party 

b. 
dinner 

c. 
movie 


a shield against nuclear attack. 
"So in a sense, our message -that same message of limited government and a firm foreign policy that we enunciated from our first day in office -did get across and continues to get across," Reagan said, offering his congratulations to Tues­day's victors and condolences to the vanquished. 
The 75-year-old president, who during the first two years of his second term defied at­tempts to label him a lame duck, said his goals remain to "make America more prosperous, more productive and the world more peaceful." 
He pledged to strive for "per­manent structural reform of the entire budget process" through enactment of a con­stitutional amendment to bal­ance the budget and legislation permitting the president to strike individual items from spending measures passed by Congress. 


4. What is your musical taste? 
a. 
progessive 

b. 
rock &roll 

c. 
dance 

d. 
pop 

e. 
Big Chill era 



5. What is your favorite interest? 
a. 
sports 

b. 
theatre 

c. 
music 

d. 
politics 

e. 
reading 




._---------------~---------------------------------------------------------------­
Victory 
continuedfrom page 1 
Ward had issued a victory statement Wednesday morning after unofficial returns gave the Knox attorney a 1,600-vote lead over the three-term Re­publican incumbent. 
Hiler said mistaken vote tabulations in St. Joseph County reduced Ward's margin in that Democratic area by 2,000 votes. County officials did not confirm the difference but Hiler declared himself the win­ner by a margin of 160 votes. 
"It isn't as big as we'd like to see, but we'll take it any way we can get it," Hiler said. 
"Despite the statements made by my opponent today, I am still the Congressman-elect for the 3rd District. I welcome any second look at the voting totals because we are confident that we will we retain the mar­gain of victory which was an­nounced last night," Ward said.

1 Two years ago, the 8th Dis-
II 
1 
I 
1 
trict congressional race in southwest Indiana went un­decided for six months as Republican challenger Rick Mcintyre battled incumbent Democrat Frank McCloskey over a razor-thin vote margin. The House of Representatives ultimately declared McCloskey the winner by four votes. 
Hiler first won the 3rd Dis­trict seat in 1980, defeating Democratic incumbent John Brademas, who had served 11 terms and joined the majority leadership as floor whip. 
Hiler won re-election in 1982 and 1984 by close margins, piling up Republican votes in Elkhart and Kosciusko counties to offset Democratic strength in South Bend and St. Joseph County. 
Correction 
Information about the N. St. Peter St. party raid was incorrect in the In Brief column of Tuesday's Obser­ver. John Klinge was cited 

J
l for violation of the city anti­noise ordinance. ~------------------~ 
Charges' of human rights violations traded at conference 
Associated Press 
Vienna, Austria-The United States and the Soviet Union traded charges of human rights violations Wednesday and then held extended talks on how to carry out their Iceland summit pledges for sharp reductions in nuclear weapons. 
Secretary of State George P. Shultz, speaking at a 35-nation 
Tax 
continuedfrom page 1 
payments on second mortgages still would be de­ductible if used for tuition. 
While Russo and others sort out the implications of the new tax law for financial aid, Notre Dame's Director of Planned Giving, J. Christopher Carlin, is trying to figure out how the new law will affect fundraising. 
In a Wall Street Journal arti­cle, Harvard University econ­omist Lawrence Lindsey esti­mated that the new law could cost colleges as much as $1.2 billion in charitable receipts. 
Said Milani: "The new law is not a good news situation for the fundraising side." 
The law reduces the tax benefits of giving by lowering the maximum tax rate from the current rate of 50 percent to 28 percent. The reduction in the rates will raise the cost of giving $1 to charity from 50 cents in 1986 to 72 cents in 1988. 
The law also eliminates the charitable-gift deduction cur­rently allowed for taxpayers 
who  do  not  itemize.  Typical  
non-itemizers  like  recent  
graduates  generally  do  not  

make large donations. Such donors are essential for the long-term stability of fundrais­ing programs, however, be­cause they guarantee a steady supply of new donors. 
"One of the basic points of fundraising is to get people into the habit of making donations early," said Milani. 
Colleges and universities also stand to lose money be­cause of the way the new law treats gifts whose value has in­creased since the time the donor purchased them. 
For example, if an individual donates stock that was pur­chased for $50,000 and is now worth $100,000, he can write off the full market value of the stock under current law. 
Under the new law, a donor will still be allowed to write off the value of the stock, but the difference between the pur­chase price and the market value would be taxed at a rate of 21 percent. 
The added tax on property whose value has increased will "affect very few charitable gifts," Carlin said. "But it will affect the biggies, and the biggies are what gets the Decio Faculty Halls," he said. 
He estimated that such large gifts accounted for 50 percent of the $48.3 million in charitable donations Notre Dame raised last year. 
Nevertheless, Carlin said he expects the new tax law's long­run effects on fundraising to be negligible. Most people do not make donations solely to save on taxes, he said. 
"The vast majority of people that give gifts to Notre Dame don't do it because of tax reasons," said Carlin. 
conference aimed at improving East-West relations," Shultz conference. Prize, to the closed city of relations between East and said in a stern speech. "If arms control measures Gorky, and the imprisonment West, said "a tragic human He addressed foreign minis­are to make a meaningful con­of members a Soviet activist rights situation" existed in the ters reviewing the 1975 Helsinki tribution to stability," Shultz group monitoring the Helsinki Soviet Union and among its agreement's promise of a freer said, "they can only reinforce, accords. Eastern allies. He warned that exchange of people and ideas never supplant, efforts to arms control would falter un­across the East-West divide. resolve more fundamental Six top U.S arms control less the perceived abuses were The United States, the Soviet sources of suspicion and politi­specialists came from Wash­corrected. Union, Canada and all cal confrontation.'' ington with Shultz, where they 
''Arms control cannot exist European nations except Al­Shultz cited the confinement were joined by the three U.S. as a process in isolation from bania signed the Helsinki ac­of Andrei Sakharov, a physicist negotiators from weapons re­other sources of tension in cords and are attending the who won the 1975 Nobel Peace duction talks in Geneva. 
SOMETHING FUNNY IS GOING ON AT NOTRE DAME 
••-------Abramsand Anderson-------~ •-----AnImprovisational Comedy Team-----• 
November 8 8:30p.m. at THEODORE's 
Tickets available at the Cellar for $2.00 Sponsored by the SAB 
~~w~w~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Cut -Rate -Liquors 
Formerly Lock's Liquor World 2128 South Bend Ave.· 277-3611 Across &om Yellow Submarine 

$7.99acase 
MUwaukee's Best $4.99 a case 
PeachTree Old Style Schnapps $7.19 a case $6.991iter 
Store Roan: 9--·llp•Mon· Thurs. 9....1.1:00p• Fri. & Sat. 
South Africa specialist cautions sanctions with 'empty symbolism' 
By MARY HEILMANN Assistant News Editor 
Cautioning against "empty symbolism," southern Africa specialist William Minter said Western sanctions against South Africa must aim at "the elimination of the basis of that state," not simply reformation of the state's system. 
Minter, in a speech Wednes­day sponsored by the Ideas and Issues Commission of the Stu­dent Activities Board, argued that sanctions with this goal are not only effective, but nec­essary to dismantle a system based on the idea that "the color of one's skin gives one rights to special political rights and social and economic privileges." 
Outlining what he said were several misconceptions held about the goal and effective­ness of sanctions, Minter said the idea that sanctions never work is "a myth kept alive by a lot of vagueness." 
"Evidence is that sanctions can make a difference," Minter said. "The question of how much, how soon, depends on what kind of sanction, when, how implemented, and what other things are happening at the same time." 
Citing figures from the In­stitute of International Eco­nomics measuring the effec­tiveness of sanctions, Minter said the average cumulative cost for the government on which sanctions are imposed is 
roughly five percent of that 
country'~annual GNP. 
"That it would reach that 
amount makes it very likely 
that something's going to 
break; something will have to 
give," Minter said. 
"To say that because a par­
ticular set of sanctions is not 
going to bring down the regime, 
that therefore they're ineffec­
tive is much like arguing that 
voting is ineffective because 
one vote won't change the 
result," he added. · Having outlined the positive 
effects of sanctions, Minter 
cautioned against "feel good" 
sanctions--those done "just so 
you can say you did it." 
"Many people who argue for 
sanctions concede the point at 
the beginning, 'We know they 
won't work but we have to do 
it anyway to show that America 
stands for freedom ... to make 
sure our college portfolio is 
clean,' " Minter said. These 
kinds of sanctions, he added, 
"are not what the people of 
South Africa are asking for." 
"I don't want to dismiss the 
importance of symbolism; 
symbolism is important and 
those reasons are important,'' 
Minter said. He stressed, 
however, that "if they are the 
only reasons, then they are an 
empty symbol, then they are 
fake because it only really 
means something if you want 
it to make a difference." 
"You can't do what Congress 
would like to do and say, 'Now 
we've done it. We've taken our stand. Now let's forget about this and get on with other is­sues,' " Minter said. "That's absurd, if your purpose is to make a difference." 
In order to effect this change, Minter appealed his audience to go beyond "empty sym­bolism'' to action, thinking and studying. 
"The American people so far have done extraordinary ef­forts in forcing the political leaders of this country to take action to begin to cut the links which reinforce the apartheid state in South Africa, but the work is scarcely begun,'' Minter said. 
"It's not enough to be com­passionate; it's not enough to just want to change things,'' he noted. 
Minter, who holds a doc­torate in political sociology from the University of Wiscon­sin, has more than 20 years of academic and journalistic ex­perience in dealing with south­ern Africa and is currently a contributing editor of African News Service. 
His speech comes nine days before the Nov. 14 meeting of the Notre Dame Board of Trus­tees, which may vote on a pro­posal for University divest­ment in companies with South African holdings. 
"It was a result of student protests in the '70s,'' Notre Dame Professor Peter Walshe, Director of African Studies, said in the introduction to Minter's speech, "that the trus­tees of Notre Dame for the first time in 1978 produced a South African investment policy. 


"The last modification took place in May of this year when they stated that they would divest from South Africa if the situation deteriorated. Since May, it has deteriorated catastrophically. The trustees meet next week, and we hope very much that they live up to their word,'' Walshe con­cluded. 
Responding to a question asserting that divestment and economic sanctions would only increase unemployment among South Africa's blacks, Minter suggested that sanc­tions "may have positive ef­fects on black employment as well as negative effects." 
"In general, foreign invest­ment is highly capital­intensive, labor-saving invest­ment,'' Minter said, adding that foreign companies have a higher ratio of white to black workers than local companies, which have less access to high technology and skilled European workers. Employers, therefore, are not forced to turn to local black labor, he said. 


AnENTION: 

Read all about Father Hesburgh in "The Hesburgh Legacy" in this Sunday's Chicago Tribune Sunday Magazine. This special issue will be available this Saturday, November 8th at the stadium after the S.M.U. game. It will also be available at the South Dining Hall or at motels and restaurants near the toll road. 

, ------------------------­
The Observer 
Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 6 
fender enters into a contrac­

Plight of indigenous people failing 
tual aggreement with the

Council 
prosecuting attorney's 

By BUD LUEPKE 
Copy Editor 
The indigenous people of the Americas and particularly Latin America are fighting a losing battle for human rights, according to Shelton Davis, Ex­ecutive Director of the Anthro­pology Resource Center in Washington, D.C. 
Davis, who spoke Wednesday night in the library auditorium, said the plight of indigenous people has failed in its plea for world awareness, despite doc­umented abuses of millions of native people, "(the in­digenous) have not become the focus of world attention like apartheid or Soviet Jews." 
Davis blamed this failure on the lack of a political lobby to back the cause. "There is no domestic lobby that would make this an issue," he said. 
Davis pointed out that human rights and politics often go hand in hand. He said apar­theid in South Africa and the repression of Soviet Jews would not likely be the human rights issues they are if there were not large political lobbies to draw attention to them. In­digenous people do not have the political power to make the governmental repression a human rights issue, Davis said. 
"If we're really interested in human rights, then we should de-politicize," said Davis. "Patterns (of abuse) are the same throughout the Americas, socialist or 
Church 
continuedfrom page 1 
philosophical approaches, con­
cepts, and language that are 
enlightening and helpful ...." 
In characterizing the 
Church's magisterium, McCor­
mick said, "The Church's 
teaching or magisterium
much more a teaching-learning process, with the em­phasis on process . . . . It is within that perspective, I believe, that dissent is not only tolerable but makes an awful lot of sense . . . . " · 
In a question-and-answer session, McCormick said that there are limits to dissent, however. "Obviously a believ­ing Catholic should not feel free to dissent from things that are defined as teaching dogmas of the Church .... You make an act of faith. We may dissent about the wording ... but not the substance of the teaching." 
When asked if one interpret­ing doctrine in radically rascist or Nazi views should also be included in the Church, McCor­mick invoked the principle of common sense: "(such an ideology) is totally opposed to the teachings of the official Church as admitted by every­one with common sense." 
When asked if Father Cur­ran's views on abortion and euthanasia also could not be so construed, McCormick refused comment. 
McCormick is a John A. O'Brien Professor of Christian Ethics at Notre Dame. He is co-editor with Charles Curran in "Readings in Moral Theol­ogy." 
The lecture was sponsored by the Thomas More Society, as was the lecture on Tuesday night by Professor Mcinerny representing an opposing view. 
capitalist," he said. 
Davis also said that another obstacle to world awareness of abuse of indigenous peoples is the failure of the non­indigenous to understand the native idea of land. 
"The whole meaning of land is radically different to in­digenous than to non­indigenous. It is the basis of their society, family, commu­nity .. . They view their history in terms of the landscape," Davis said. 
Davis said the indigenous struggle for human rights is es­sentially a struggle for land rights. Native land, said Davis, has disappeared through gov­ernment acquisitions and sales. In Columbia, he said, In­dian land which covered much of the country in the 1800's was taken over at the turn of the century. Davis said Indians made up about 50% of the pop­ulation before the acquisition. "Now, they are about 3 per­cent," he said. 
In Equador, said Davis, the government is threatening to cut down its rain forests and replant the African Palm in or­der to sell palm oil for foreign capital. Davis said 150,000 in­digenous would be removed by this action. "It threatens a whole culture and way of life," said Davis. 
Davis said indigenous have been able to organize an inter­national network and that since 1982 the United Nations has lis­tened to their abuses. 
Davis received his Ph.D. from Harvard in Social Anthro­pology in 1970. His lecture was part of the Exxon Distin­~uished Scholar Series. 

of the Castle 
Men's Hairstyling $6student $8.50 complete style 
AWAYFROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691 DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
We •leo •-••~"• tlae Royal Bro••• Sa•t.••••• C.•t• S.e • taala ••••••• ... Not Hoare 
I ~t. Roed p ~'"""'-~1 
continuedfrom page 1 
"People need lawyers and 
we will be able to generate 
a list of lawyers," Cintron 
said. "These are people that 
we've already approached 
and are willing to work with 
students," she added. 
Also, Cintron informed the 
council about the Pre-trial 
Diversion Program. The 
program is directed by 
Linda Scopelitis of St. 
Joseph's County Prosecuting 
Attorney's Office and is spe­
cifically designed for first 
time offenders. 
Under the program, the of­
"":HINA • GL~SS • TOYS • FUFINITUAE • fOOLS 
office. By paying a fine and a user fee, performing com­munity service and having no repeat offenses for a given time, the offender can have the charges dropped and removed from his record. 
Cintron said that in case of police harassment, a for­mal complaint would be best course of action. 
"If you feel you are being hassled by a police officer, go and get his name and badge (number) and go down to the police station and make a formal com­plaint," Cintron said. 

------JEWELRY • PAINTINGS • VINTAGE CLOTHING 
ANTIQUE DEALERS MARKET 
BETHEL COLLEGE • GOODMAN AUDITORIUM 1001 W. McKinley Ave. • Mishawaka 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
• INDOORS -HEATED-FOOD-FREE PARKING • 
SATURDAY 8 A.M. to 4:30P.M. PUBLIC INVITED $1.50 ADMISSION 
PRESENT THIS CARD FOR 
DISCOUNT 25' DISCOUNT -----ARKPRODUCTIONS • P.O. Bo• 1331 • Mlsh•w•k•.IN 46544 • (219) 236-1208 ----­

Hey, You ••. Yeah, You! 
* 
Come see the Alumni's new All Terrain Assault Vehicle. 

* 
Come rub elbows with the director of the Alumni Association. 

* 
Come find out about summer job opportunities, career days, guest speakers, and how to get involved in the Alumni Association. 

* 
And most importantly, come find out what the heck SARGis. 


:><Q><Q->~..g,~~~~«7><-t:>--<Q>~..Q><Q->~ 
~he Abrams Chair in Jewish Studies 
presents 
Abrams Distinguished Lecturer 

]])IRQ CCJRI&JIOO JP(Q)Lf\Q)JK ~ 
~ A \llftill®ll' ®II': t 
! 
The Chosen §~ 
My N arne is Asher Lev ~ 
§ The Book of Lights § 
Authority and Rebellion: The Individual and Modern Literature 
Monday, November 10, 4:00 PM 
The Writer/Artist Against the World § 
Tuesday, November 11, 4:00 PM 
Question and Answer Session Wednesday, November 12, 10:30 AM 
lectures will be held on the Notre Dame Campus in the 

Center for Cofltinuing Education Auditorium '§ 
WHEN: Thursday, November 6th in front of the South Dining Hall 
and Friday, November 7th in front of in front of the North Dining Hall 

TIME: 5:00 -6:30 
WHY: Because we are serving FREE hot chocolate and cookies. 


THE PUBLIC IS WELCOME ~
~«7>~~<Q->~..g,~~~~ '-~--=========iii= 
---------------~ 


Seniors and interested underclassmen are invited to attend: -. 
"Investment Banking Financial Analyst Positions: An • Introduction" 
Date: Thursday, November 6 Time: 8:00 p.m. Location: Upper Lounge 
University Club 
Two 1985 graduates from the University 
will discuss the role of the analyst on 
Wall Street and provide advice on 
researching and seeking two-year 
financial analyst positions. 
Sponsored by: 
-
Salomon Brothers Inc I I Kidder, Peabody & Co. 
Incorporated 
All majors welcome. 

,
,
,
,
,
,
,
, 
~ 
1 
~ 
,
,
, 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
,1 
,
,
,
,
,
,
, 
1 
, 
1 
' 
~ 
1 
I 
1 
' 
' 
, ' 
I 
1 
1 
1 
\Tie\YE_O_i_n_t__________~T~h~sd~ay,No~vemb~er6,1~9ss-p~ages 
. Presenter wiU outline signs of cocaine abuse 
Cocame addiction IS no longer a l?r?b­lem of the few. Some 25 milhon Americans have tried cocaine at least once, and as many as 2-3 million have become dependent on it to the point that they cannot quit without pain. Many
r 
r cannot quit at all before their addiction r leads to their death. In laboratory tests, r cocaine was found to be so strongly r reinforcing that monkeys killed them-
r . 't h . .
1 t k
se ves o eep usmg I , c oosmg cocame 
r 
over food or sex or any other satisfac­
r 
tion 
r · 
r 
Sally Coleman, M. A. 
guest CO lumn 

It has been widely taught and written that tolerance to cocaine does not oc­cur. This incorrect belief arose because small amounts were used via inefficent delivery methods. Furthermore, cocaine is a short-acting drug, and tolerance requires a fairly constant presence of the drug in the body. Now, with the advent of more efficient routes like intravenous injection and smoking, high concentrations of the drug are achieved. Those with sufficient sup­plies can dose themselves very fre­quently for days. Under such conditions enormous amounts can be taken and as such binges progress, a definite decreased euphoric effect occ~s. indi­cating development of tolerance. In­creased tolerance is symptomatic of addictions. 
Cocaine produces psychological de­pendence in many. The drug usually must be taken in moderate or high doses over a period of time before drug­seeking behavior occ~s. The desire to continue to repeat the experience for its euphoric effects or to deal with post­cocaine depression is especially ~gent when the drug is smoked or injected. Some pharmacologists believe that physical dependence (addiction) to cocaine does not occ~. However, those who have observed the "crash" or the coming down from a cocaine run, are fairly well convinced that a stimulant withdrawal syndrome does occ~, indi­cating that physical dependence is a real possibility. This is similar to am­phetamine withdrawal with serious psychic depression, aches and pains, protracted sleep, irritability, nausea a~d we~ness as some of the_symj>toms noted. It is the withdrawal symptoms that make discontinuing cocaine al­
, most impossible, as long as the drug is available. The Notre Dame community is not immune to the national cocaine prob­
lem. U~m;:rsities around the coun~ry are begrnmng to approach t~e cocame (and o~her drug) problem directly by becommg educated t~ the facts of sub­tshtancue !lbus~. !n a drrect fresponse. ~o 
e ~Ive~sity s request or specifi~ educ.abon m su~stance ab~se, the U:m~ versit~ Counseling Center IS sponsor~ng a cocame and other drugs ~resenta~10n by R:andy Weber ~f Park~td~ Medical Services of Park Ridge, Illm01s. Weber
is a well known presenter who spe
cializes in-the education and treatment 
f . . . 
o cocame addiction. Weber has prepared the following questions to help 
you decide whether someone close to you could be addicted to cocaine. 
1. Has the person built up a large debt? Because cocaine is a very expensive 
drug ($100 a gram or more), users often 
postpone paying bills in order to have more money for the drug. 
2. 
Have the individual's sleeping and waking patterns changed signifi­cantly? Cocaine is a stimulant which interferes with normal sleep. Some­times users will stay awake for long periods of time while using cocaine, then fall into extended periods of sleep. 

3. 
Have you noticed that the person has frequent nosebleeds, a red, stuffy nose, or sniffles? Because the most frequent 


method of using cocaine is to sniff it through the nose, all of these signs could indicate cocaine use. 
4. 
Have you found any items in the per­son's possession that might be used to store, prepare, or use cocaine? Tiny glass bottles and paper envelopes are used to store cocame, single edged razor blades and mirrors are used to prepare it, and metal or plastic straws and-Or miniat~e spoons are used to administer (sniff) it. 

5. 
Has the person lost a large amount of weight recently, and-Or shown a decrease in appetite? Cocaine decreases the appetite and many cocaine users either skip meals or eat poorly. 

6. 
Have you noticed rapid mood swings in the individual (from happy to sad, or from outgoing to withdrawn)? Cocaine is a very short-acting drug (60 minutes if sniffed; 10 minutes if in­jected or smoked) which produces feelings of euphoria and confidence fol­lowed by depression. Although some people are nat~ally "moody," ra:pid mood changes may be a sign of cocame use. 

7. 
Has the individual been late to work or school frequently, missed appoint­ments, used more sick time than usual, or shown a decrease in productivity at work or school? These changes may in­dicate that the person is staying up late using cocaine, becoming less respon-


s!b~C::· or losing inter~st in normal ac­tlvitles because of mcreasing preoc­cupation with the drug. 
8. Has the person begun friendships with people you would not expect him or her to .associate with? People who use cocame are often attracted to ?ther~ who u,~e ~he d~ug, particularlyif their new fnends have access to large amounts of cocaine. Sometimes this common interest in cocaine is the 
nl b d . th 1 t' h.
° Hy onth m. d~ ~de a 10nhs Ip. . f
9· as e m IVI ua1s own signs o 
psychotic behavior (hallucinations 
at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
,--------------'-------------­
J

p o B0 X Q 
Message on jacket is offensive to all women 
Dear Editor, 

My initial ~ge to compliment Pro­fessor Frese's recent letter to the Ob­server with a rousing "hear, hear! " was dismissed by a conviction that her case had been argued cleverly enough to make any amplification a waste of time. I see, however, that her effort has been lost on the one person it should most have profited. Mr. Ellsworth, the issue is not your choice of clothing. Nor is it your thoughts as you wear the fa­mous jacket. 
The issues are these: 1. the message itself, its presuppositions, its connota­tions and, perhaps most importantly, its place in public disco~se; and 2. the responsibility of an educator to point out both the impropriety of the em­peror's not-so-new clothes and the fal­lacy of the emperor's self-appointed right to have his way with the empress. As I read it, the message you bear, Mr. Ellsworth, is this: men are authorized by right of some male fetish to promote in public the principle that women are -to use a worn but still exact term ­sexual objects, playthings for the guys in the front and back rooms of bars like Casey's in Whitefish, Montana. 
My reaction to all this comes not from a sense of prudishness, but rather from the specific outrage of being included without assent in a group. You see, Mr. 
" Ellsworth, the statement you parade around is indiscriminate. It calls on men generally to follow the lead of the guy in that jacket. And the crude mes­sage is made all the more offensive precisely because it wants to pass itself off as humor. It is, rather, wrapped up 
hostility or suspiciousness)? In large doses or after long periods of use cocai~e can produce chemical chan e~ in the brain which lead to conf ·g paranoia irritability andt>r a~:~~~: sion. ' ' 
Please plan to attend tonight's presentation regarding cocaine and other drugs. 
Sally Coleman, M.A. is a staff member 
at the Notre Dame Counseling Center. 
Randy Weber will be speaking tonight 
_ 

in language itself which can ricochet in unanticipated ways. The language you bear tells those in your wake that while you may not be violent towards women, you do espouse the humor of violence to women. You may not speak that lan­guage, but you do proclaim it. "Liquor in the Front, Poker in the Rear" begs to be interpreted as the unspoken and complicitous violence inscribed deeply in some men's sense of women. 
No one obliges you to throw away your jacket. You are only being asked to consider what the logo on yo~ back says to virtually all women who walk behind you, not just to Dolores Frese. You are also being asked to consider what it says about us men in general and about you in particular. Finally, you are being asked to consider that while "what is proper is not necessarily right," it is not necessarily wrong either; and that to reject propriety on the grounds of an a priori as shaky as yours may in the end be more offensive than the principle of the thing is worth. 
Louis A. MacKenzie, Jr. Department of Modern and Classical Languages 
Correction 

Because of a copy editing error, a portion of Wednesday's letter to P .0. Box Q by Dr. James Carberry was in­correctly printed. The text should read "Thus do o~ good students ex­perience their initiation into that realm proscribed by many of o~ res­ident theologians and philosophers-­Thomism." " ... (But then again, what does Rome know of theology or theologians, as the Reverend McBrien recently opined in the N.Y. Times)." 

Quote of the day 
"You can't always get what you want, but if you try sometimes, you just might find, you get what you need." 
The Rolling Stones "You Can't Always Get What You Want" 
General Board 

Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Editor·in·Chief................... Joe Murphy Controller .................. Alex VonderHaar Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
Ihe Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer· Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski Ad Design Manager ....... Mary Carol Greadon their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1966 
Accent 
Thursday, November 6, 1986 -page 9 

.. 
..;' 

otjustanotherr~ck 
ANDY SAAL features writer 
The cool night air flows silently across the dew-covered grass. Slowly the full moon rises and floods the clearing with Its ghostly pale light. Tons upon tons of upraised limestone archways cast their stark shadows upon the ground. Tow­ering ominously, these great monoliths have been set In place to stand ten thousand years. 
Think about it. If the Clarke Peace Memorial has half the in­tegrity of the real Stonehenge, It will be standing long after every other building on campus has fallen. If mankind Is lucky enough not to start World War III, Notre Dame's monoliths should stand until another Ice Age glacier plows through In­diana. (Or until the Cubs win the World Series ... whichever occurs sooner.) 
But the peace memorial Is not just another attempt at Immor­tality for the University. Like Its distant cousin Stonehenge, the opposite side of the circle. One 

could view this by standing at the Northeast corner and looking through the narrow gap to the back entrance of Lafortune. 
With these rudimentary meas­urements, other astronomical calculations could be made. From the Southeast corner, one could spot the most Northerly moonset every month between the gaps of the pillars. The view from the Northwest corner would show the most Southerly moon­rise each month. l'!eedless to say, one could easily chart the lunar cycle using the windows of Nleuwland as guide markers. Eclipses and other regular astronomical events could be predicted by knowing the widths of the pillar gaps, the exact positioning of campus markers and the viewer's angle. The planets could be easily charted with the Inherent compass-like setting of the monument. 
Ofcourse, for the most precise measurements, the sunrises and sunsets would have to be spotted as close to the horizon as possl-Irish arches also have a practical purpose. The monoliths are aligned almost perfectly from East to West, the library to Sacred Heart. The giant marble sphere lies directly In line with a North­South axis from the front door of Haggar to Nleuwland. With its inherent compass-like design, the pillars and arches them­selves can be used to mark celes­tial motion and the passing of the seasons. 
In primitive cultures, rings of stones were a common method of keeping track of time. Agrarian societies In Europe and America used the motion of the sun and moon as a rudimentary calendar by which to harvest and plant. The simplest astronomical alignment at Britain's Stonehenge marks the sunrise on the first day of summer. A viewer at the center of the rings only had to line his sight with a distant marker In the Northeast. The one day each year that the sun passed Immediately above the marker stone was the sum­mer solstice. 
With Notre Dame's stone ring. the arrangement does not allow one to stand easily at the center. The viewing problems, however, can be compensated. Standing outside the memorial, one can use the gaps between the pillars to establish several unique fields of view. If one neglects the ob­vious differences between the latitudes of Indiana and Britain, some rough astronomical cal­culations can be made with Notre Dame's stones by modeling Stonehenge's alignments. 
On the summer solstice , around June 21, one should stand at the Southwest corner of the Memorial (closest to Lafor­tune). Looking diagonally across the base, between the nearest two arches and under the oppo­site arch, one can spot the main entrance of Breen-Phllllps Hall. On the first day of summer, the sun would rise behind the hall and appear directly over the main entrance. 
Likewise, on the winter solstice, around December 21, the sun would set on the exact 
\ 



ble. This would require the destruction of Breen-Phllllps, Cavanaugh, Nleuwland, and Lafortune. Perhaps the entire North Quad should be eliminated just to make sure. Although the cultural benefits clearly warrant these actions, the present Uni­versity housing shortage makes them unfeasible at present. 
A more reasonable solution might be to move the great stones to a more open area, like 
-
the marching band's practice field near the stadium. But an even better Idea would be to find an area similar to the desolate Salisbury Plain where the real Stonehenge has brooded for mil­lennia. Somehow, central In­diana strikes a chord In mymind. In fact, the city of Kokomo (with all 1:5 traffic lights) rests on the Ideal location. The simplest so­lution then would be to level Kokomo and erect the memorial there. This would not only es­tablish a fantastic observatory, but also eliminate an eyesore and a speedtrap from US :51 South. 
f 
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
A pep rally for the Notre Dame-SMU football game is slated for 7 p.m. Friday at Stepan Center. -The Observer 
The ND crew team will hold a general meeting tonight at 7 in room 123 Niewland. Weekend plans will be dis­cussed. The varsity women will have a meeting immedi­ately afterwards. -The Observer 
The ND-SMC ski team encourages all members who have been unable to unload their turtlenecks on their friends to call T. J. Smith at 1022. He will be running the concession stand for the SMU game and we can unload the turtlenecks on the alumni. -The Observer 
Tickets for Sunday's men's and women's Blue-Gold bas­ketball game are on sale now at the ACC. Prices are $2 for adults and $1 for students. Proceeds from the games will go to Logan Center and the Neighborhood Study Help Program. The women's game begins at 6:30, followed by the men's game at 7:30. -The Observer 
Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 10 
Krieg's football future is uncertain 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE -In less than two years, quarterback Dave Krieg of the Seattle Seahawks has gone from the Pro Bowl to the bench. 
His future in professional football is uncertain. 
Seahawks' Coach Chuck Knox replaced Krieg with second-year pro Gale Gilbert last week and Krieg watched from the sidelines last Sunday as the New York Jets beat his team 38-7. 
Gilbert figures to be the Seahawks' starting quarter­back for the remainder of the season. 
The situation bears a striking resemblance to what happened midway through the 1983 season when Knox replaced Jim Zorn with Krieg as the Seahawks' starting quarter­back. Zorn never regained his former role. 
A similar fate could be in store for Krieg, a former free agent from Milton College in Wisconsin, a little NAIA school which no longer exists, who helped the Seahawks into the playoffs in the 1983 and 1984 seasons. 
What happened? 
"If I knew the answer to the question, I wouldn't have let it happen," said Ken Meyer, Seattle.'s quarterback coach. "It's a whole bunch of things. 
"When a team isn't going good, a lot of it falls on the quar­terback. But he gets more blame than he should and he probably gets more praise than he should. When a team isn't going good for some reason, then you make a quarterback change. That's what happened to Dave." 
When Knox arrived in Seattle from Buffalo in January of 1983, he inherited the popular Zorn and Krieg. Zorn was Knox's starting quarterback for his first eight games as Seattle's head coach. Then Knox went to Krieg. 
Zorn was Krieg's backup for the next two seasons. After a season in Green Bay, Zorn was out of the NFL. 
Krieg took the Seahawks to the American Football Confer­ence title game in the 1983 season. He directed them to the franchise's best record ever, 12-4, and into the playoffs again in the 1984 season. He got an invitation to the Pro Bowl. 
But Krieg slipped last season and the Seahawks missed the playoffs with an 8-8 record. He went from 32 touchdown passes in 1984 to 27 in 1985. 
Knox made his decision to switch from Krieg to Gilbert after the Seahawks were beaten in Denver. Krieg had a dismal day. He completed six of 16 passes for 26 yards in a 20-13 loss. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu· dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
2 room  elllclency privata entrance  RIDE NEEDED TO L.I.,N.Y.  FOR T·  I need 1 Penn St. atu. tic. SS Cell Jon  OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I  UQUOR,  Chuck Klllllln'a mlsar8ble lila Ia about  
NOTICES  utllltlea paid 288-0ISS momlnge  GIVING CAN LEAVE TUES OR WED CALL JEN 284-4188.  £2085  CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  to end.  
NEED 5 PENN ST GA'S BADII FRED  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287..C082  L--W_A_N_TE_o_____.l  ~-·--;;;~~~~----­ 2811-9225 need 4 SMU atud tlx-call 4215 or 17011  PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 808 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR SS OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 10-8:30. 233­ OH MY GODIII All you atudly guya out there have to wlah Anne Norton a Happy Balated 21at Birthday (only  
JAZZ, NEW WAVE, CLASSICAL, THE BEST STAFF IN THE WORLD, WSND RULES. (and by 1118 way we're having a lund drive.) Nov 2 -11. PRO-TYPE Quality work, reaaonable •• 277-5833 Wordp.-.alng Cell LaVonne 287· 11024 Want to llaten to 1118 BEST BLUE'S BAND In South Bend? THE BULLDOG  FuLL AND PART TIME WAITRESS' NEEDED. MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMITTY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 48801 COMPUTER STORE SEEKS REU· ABLE PART-TIME HELP. NEAR CAMPUS. 277·5028. I NEED RIDE TO COLUMBUS, OHIO THIS WEEKEND. CALL TODD AT 1050. THE BEIGEMOBILE TO PURDUE Ia  FOR SALE; FANTASTIC SMU AND PENN STATE G.A'S. CALL 277-8837. '72 Muatang Exc. lnt I Ext All new mechanlcala Recelpta avail. Aaklng saooo. 233-8880 Peter GUITAR 12 STRING, S180. 277-4482 AFTER 8. SKIS OUN UNUSED 1HCM SIZE 1.l LOOK BNDGS S220 277-4482 AFTER 8  NEED PENN STATE GAa -CALL 283­3848. NEED 2 GA'S FOR SMU CALL SHEILA 214-11250. I NEED 3 SMU TIX CALL DAN X4101 HELP-need 2 Penn State tlx-atud or GA-call Krlaten at 1511 I need 2 Penn ST. GA'a. Call 1382 or 1441.  2342. SENIOR TRIP T..SHIRTSI Call 3851 Hungry? can The YELLOW sua. MARINE atJ272·HIKE. Delivery houra: Monday -Thuredey 5pm·12am; Friday llprn-2am; Saturday 5prn-1am; Sunday 4prn-10pm. Margae, THANKS! ..Chuck SYMPHONY CLUBI Fana of Ellzabath Gerrlah, celllat extreordlnalre, unltel  threa daya late) She'a legal ao watch out. Love you know who. We are looking lor a ride home tor Thankaglvlng. We are going to Aledo IL but will take arlde to Macomb,Peorla,the Quad-Citlas or Jollat.ll you are going toward Waetern IL, give me a call. Mlchelle-4884. To our deareat Patti and Marla, Rosaa are red, vlolata are blue, thla poem will be continued In part II... Love Alwaya, Dave and-Joe.  
BLUES BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES  leaving at high noon on Friday, No­ lt'a happening again Sat. Nov. 81 For  
BAND THE BULLDOG BLUES BAND Ia plllytng on WEDNESDAY at CHIP'S Ia playing on THURSDAY at LEE'S Rill'S "C.uae even Domere gat 1118 Bluee aomatlmae •.. "  vember 7, lnataed of 8 • aerller alated. II you'd atlll like to ride along (return Saturday 811ernoonevanlng) give Gertie a call at 214-11128. Thanke.  TICKETS I NEED SMU I PENN ST GAa.272o8308  I have 2 SMU GA'a bargain priced. Cell Tim 33011 Four S.M.U. G.A.'a lor ealelll  a good time, call Julie x3842 or Cindy x4508. (Eapecllllly II you hava a carl) DEAD HEADS: Looking tor qui. G.D. tapa to trade. I've got 25 plua can  They only come out at night The lean and hungry type Nothing Ia new, You've -n her hare before ... -D.Hall • J.Oatea  
Cell Kathleen at £2824  Jim at 1143  
liED I BREAKFAST. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. ON THE RIVER. S30 SINGLE, $45 DBL. 114-13011.  DESPERATELY NEED RIDE TO PURDUE THIS WEEKEND, SHARES. CALL STEVE AT 1087  NEED 2 PENN ST. TIX CALL JAY AT £2174  I'VE GOT 4 SMU GA'S FOR SALE. CALL JOHN AT 3880  Your CMK  Welcome  Sincerely,  81. Jude  THEY ONLY COME OUT AT NIGHT A Baeux Arta Ball Friday, Nov.7  
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7008. \ LOST/FOUND I  WANTED DOMINO'S PIZZA DEUVERY PERSONNEL Se.DO AN HOUR GUARANTEED YOUR FIRST TWO WEEKSI FLEXIBLE NIGHT-TIME HOURS. APPLY IN PERSON BE· TWEEN 4:30PM AND 1:00PM AT 11135 SOUTH BEND AV 277·2151  I'm aaklng you nicely • Pleesa Mil me PSU tlx (atud. or GA) Cell Michelle B. at 4870 Need 2 Penn G.A. 'a I 2 Penn St. Tlx Call Bob Ill 3327  NEED 3 PENN ST. GA'S RICH 1218 ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE BLUE CAN I BUY 3 SMU GA'S FROM YOU call Patrick 234-2841  Happy Birthday Big Kill What are you doing hare?SMC?So you tried anaeklng by TNHYDEPT?Ray'alnqule.,Oh,l belleva lt.Roberl,aet your p.alad.Hia chol.levella 38.Uh,C.,there'a a car pul­llng... ,take my garment bag horneiJDiealaml. forever! Lova,your  1:00 p.m. SOPHOMORES: ROLF'S POOL PARTY! COME JOIN US IN EVERY· THING YOU ALWAYS WANTED TO DO IN A POOL-WED, NOV. 12  
FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL TO IDENTIFY. 1412 LOST Friday night near Theodore'a: black womena Gueu watch with white lace call 34111 LOST KONICA CAMERA AT 107  CAMPUS REPS NEEDED-TRAVEL FREE: Poalllon lnvolvn marketing and Hlllng quality aid and beach trlpa on campua. Eam free trlpa and high commlaalona. can John Eldredge at Great Deatlnatlona, 1-IJ00.258-111111. Need RIDE(RS) to INDYIPURDUE Nov 7 X2888  BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS need atud. or GA tlx tor SMUll Lat my backwooda buddlea -a game! Cell Dava at 32113 MOONSHINE to all who halpll  NEED 8 SMU TIX BIG S CALL 3874'.1888 NEED 2 SMU GA's-JOHN 1722 NEED PENN STATE TIX: STUDENT OR GA'S WILL PAY SS CALL LOIS 284­5118 HELP! NEED 3 PENN STATE STUD TIX  twin I CALVINIHOBBESCALVI NIHOBBESCALVINIHO B B E S C.lvln deaperately needa 3 SMU GA'a. Fork lllem over NOW, or elsa Hobbea, my tarocloua tiger, will come and eat you. Cell C.lvln, 35113.  WOMEN OF NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S Yae, the lmpoealbla haa come to pua... THE RAYMOND IS GETTING MARRIED We, the tollowere of the Raymond thought thla to be a cruel hoex ... But, alaa and alack ...we were wrong (I know lt'a hard to believe). PLEASE CALL HIM AT 32111 TO CON­ 
CAMPUS VIEW 1001.1F FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-5073. NO QUES. TIONS ASKED. REWARDIII LOST: 8 KEYS ON A RING THAT SAYS KYOTO. I DESPERATELY NEED THEMII ANNETTE 284-4372 LOST: BLACK, RAY-BAN "BEWITCHING" SUNGLASSES. REWARDIII LOST FRIDAY AT THEODORES. ANNETTE 284-4372.  In DESPERATE NEED of ONE Penn State GA or Student tlckatlll Call Theme X4041111 Will pay blgl TURKEYS FLY SOUTH FOR THANKS. GIVING BUT I NEED A RIDE Going to NASHVILLE or BIRMINGHAM call TIM 33011 Cia•-In Tal Chi Chuan lor health are atartlng soon. Tal Chi, a Chlnesa exerclsa form, will lncre-your sail confidence, ability to concantreta,and  BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST ... PLEASE HELP ME ... NEED 28 PSU TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1248 OR 1352. BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX ..CALL T J ·283-181111 I NEED 1 PENN ST GA. WILL PAY BIG ..., CALL TIM 3314.  CALL CATHY 21114 I NEED PENN STATE TICKETS CALL FRED AT 288-2821 THIS AD WILL NOT INSULT YOUR IN­TELLIGENCE, NOR WILL IT BEG FOR 1 STU DENT TICKET FOR SMU AND 2 GA'S FOR PENN. BUT IF YOU DO HAVE THESE, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE PLEASt; CALLIIII THERESA 284-40118 .. I've Invited the big guy to the LSU  HE WALKED 8,1100 MILES! Fr. Jack Morrla, S.J. beglna "A Cell to Peacemaking Week" with a allde ahow on Tha Bethlehem P-Pllrgrlmege. Sunday, November 8 at 7:00 p.m. at the Center lor Socllll Concema ROCK AND ROLLIII R.E.M FANS ROCK AND ROLLIII Time Ia running out. Moat of our tapa of very rere R.E.M tracka (IJ.aldea,lmporta, out-of· print llexl-dlaca) have already baen claimed. You atlll have a chance to hear "Bumlng Down" S "White Tor­ GRATULATE HIM, OR GET HIM TO CHANGE HIS MIND. The RAYMOND'S dynsaty Ia over; truly 1 tragedy Indeed. The great atata of Tenneesae proudly announcae 1118 20th BIRTHDAY of one of lie moat honored aubjac:ta ... KA Y· RIN RADAR ... ao y,all gil on the horn and give the WOMAN a big ol' yahoo ylp-yall HAPPY BIRTHDAY WISHII SMc-40117 YEEHAII LOVE, THE WO­MEN OF 3 SOUTH AND WINSTON  
LOST: HI of rm. 324 keya, D1 key, and varloua pereonal keya on a heart ahaped key chain with Initial "D". Very  your awarenesa. lntereated call 277· 7152 altar 4:00 PM.  SMU I PENN ST. GA'a FOR SALE 277· 0288  game. Yep, that'a right, God'a coming. Unfortunately I forgot to gat him tick­eta and now I'm lacing aternal damn•  nado" and "Tighten Up" ao order now. Moat tunea atudlo quality on high quality tapa. Call Chin-Broa. Inc.  When one Ia taken yat wanted el­where the mind beglna to underatand  
- lmpottantll II Debbie X4287.  found,  plaeH  call  RIDE NEEDED tor two to anywhere In upatata NEW YORK tor THANKSGIV· lNG (Rochaelar,  CASH tor 2-3 GA or Slud Tlx lor Pen­n812881  lion or at leaat a lot of purgatory. Piasa sail me your LSU tlckata. Cell 24113 and eave my aoul.  at 248! or 2850 to resarve your copy.  the deptha of 1118 heart.  
LOST: A GOLD AND BLACK ONYX BEADED BRACELET LOST ON 1001. REWARD! CALL 284-4148.  Syracusa ..... .anywhere) Would like to teeva Tueaday, Nov. 28 P.M. and return Sunday Nov.30. Willing to ahare uaual.  Need 4 SMU tlx. Will pay top S I Call £3487  2 SMU GAa 4 aale Call 181111  Heeda up men! BOO Ia on the prowl...  ELIZABETH A. MARTUCCI  
FOUND: BASEBALL GLOVE In front of Alumni call Mary 3781  PLEASE CALL Ellen X 4418 Wanted: Japanesa Language Tutor. 25i-8808  NEED PENN ST. TIX CALL JIM 2811-3482  Need two Penn Stata Stud Tlx I 3 GA'a. Cell Paul 277.0177. Need Penn State Tlx. Will pay big  Oh brolher(a)llt'a KIMBERLY M. GAR· RISON'S birthday today! Tha neigh­borhood wanta to wlah her a HAPPY TWENTIETH  Batheede will never be tha aamel We did ao much Crack! I hope Brian'• haert Ia O.K. (not juat from all the rocka either). Oh, why Thureday? we  
LOST before Oct. Break: Faded Lavl'a  HELPI NEED RIOE TO PURDUE THIS  NEED PENN G.A.'S.CHRIS 1736  bucka. Call Joe llllar 8p.m. 287-4581.  '''KEENAN REVUE­ juat neaded to warm up lor tomorrow. anlcker, anlcker  
Jacket. No aide pockata, no l.d. s plene return-great sanllmental value.  WEEKEND CALL CATHY 21114  I need SMU ticket. Doug-2514  NEED TWO SMU GA'a Cell John: 1750  CONCESSION STAND  -the Boya  
can Polly at 31111. LOST .set of threa keya allthrea were on one amall ring two are houae keya, one a maater lock key !oat In South Dining Hall, waet aide II found, pleesa  Travel field poaltlon Immediately avell· able. Good cornmlaalona, valuable work experience, travel, and other benellta. Call Bred Nelaon (toll tree)  L NEED 6 PENN ST. G.A.'S. CALL TODD AT 1050. I NEED ANY PENN STATE TIX. CALL RICH AT 272-8923.  2 SMU GAa 4 SALE Call 21115  SMU game ·Sat. Nov.8 Burgera, Brata, Cokea Hot Chocolata, Cottae. Look tor our algn In front '"of Crowley Muelc Hall"'  OH MY GOD Ill All you atudly guya out !hare have to wlah Anne Norton a Happy Balated 21at Birthday (only threa daya late) Sha'a legal ao watch out. Love you know who.  
call Stephen, x1888  1-800-433-7747 tor a complela lntor­ NEED 2 SMU G.A.'S. CALL LAURIE  thanka St. Jude  
FOR RENT Gueata corning tor game need place to atay? Sllvarbrook Bed-aBreaklaat In Nllas. Clean, qulat, reaaonable. 818­114-2323 evenlnga:  metlon maller. Drummer wanted tor roclotlluea band call Scottat28&-3481(1v. meag) I have a amall HIof druma end place to prac­tice Two guya Heklng ride to Clevelllnd· Thankaglvlng break Pleasa help. call Jim at1418.  1254. NEED 2 PENNST STUDTIX CALL CHRIS 234·5807 NEED 10 PENNST TICKS MARIO 1173 I NEED 2 SMU GA'a. CALL 239 5370 or 284 5105. THANKS.  PERSONALS Chrlatlan theology contradlcta Deuteronomy 28; theological anti­S.mltlam va. the doctrine of the "reaurrectlon of tha deed" taught by Jeaua. Write: Mlchsal, P.O. Box 4475, South Bend, IN 48834-4475.  Attention Lovere 01 "'DAVE McMONAGLE­Slgnupa lor tha Dave McMonagle Fan Club will take place outalde Wething­ton Hell 11 10:30 Saturday morning. S.. DAVE clo-up II Maatlllha club table at12:oo lor band atep-oll. '"GO DAVE GO"'  Hay Traxle, Buba, and Tootle, D.C. waa Great! You know aho'a will naver be tha aame... Love ya much, Bunulllrl Son ofT: Good luck gelling "Morgen" or "deer eyeall" You'll need Ill Tha Bird  

he Observer Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 11 
America II wins as U.S. remains tied with New Zealand 
Associated Press 
FREMANTLE, Australia ­America II sailed to a victory over Britain's White Crusader yesterday, while New Zealand also won and remained tied with the United States boat for the lead in the America's Cup challenge series. 
America 11, captained by 
John Kolius, lost the start to 
White Crusader but took the 
lead after the first mark and 
led for the rest of the race, win­
ning by one minute. 
Chris Dickson kept New Zealand in front of French Kiss throughout their race. It was close until the final leg, when the fiberglass boat pulled away from Marc Pajot's crew to win by 2:23 seconds. 
The victories kept America II and New Zealand atop the standings with 31 points each. White Crusader remained third with 23 points. Italia was fourth with 22 points and Stars & stripes was fifth with 21. 
America II and White Crusader both flew protest flags midway through their race, while French Kiss and 
THE KING SAYS "I'M GmiNG READY FOR WAR" 

New Zealand raised red flags about five minutes before the start. 
All four protests were dis­missed. 
In the other races involving American yachts, USA defeated Azzurra, Stars & stripes defeated Heart of America, and Eagle whipped Challenge France. 
Meanwhile, Dory Vogel of Shoreham, N.Y., was reflect­ing on her role as a navigator aboard Stars & stripes during a winning race Tuesday against Challenge France. 
Participation by women in the yachting series is rare, but their presence in crews dates back to 1886, when Mrs. William Henn was aboard Brit­ain's Galatea. 
Since then, six different wo­men have been in the final round eleven times. Two were American and five were British. 
The first American woman to compete in the final round was Mrs. C. Oliver Iselin, who sailed aboard the Columbia in 1899. 
"I was real nervous," Vogel 
PRICES GOOD THRU NOV. 8, 1986 
or while 
Quantities Laat 

said Wednesday. "Joining the crew was a complete surprise." 
Her husband, Scott, is a bow­man on the boat skippered by Dennis Conner. 
"I made a couple of mistakes because I haven't been working with the computers lately," she said. 
Computers play a large role in 12-meter racing. They pro­vide feedback on wind condi­tions, sail trim, navigation, time made good and other in­formation necessary to keep the yacht sailing fast. 
UNCLE MIKE WANTS YOUI 
COME VISIT OUR NEWLY REMODELED STORE AT 1621 SOUTH BEND AVE. IN SOUTH BEND. 

l 
j I 
j 
I I I I I I I I 
j j 
I 
~1-J 
SPECIALS AVAILABLE AT ALL 10 OF OUR CONVENIENT LOCATIONS 
f 
The Observer Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 12 
Senior keeper ends career 
Breslin's are tough shoes to fill 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team loses a grand total of four seniors to graduation next year. But the already solid squad, with a bounty of young talent waiting in the wings, could face a transition year be­cause of the immense spikes goalkeeper Hugh Breslin will leave to be filled at Alumni Field. . 
Breslin, a 6-2, 170-pound senior from Morristown, N.J., has started all 21 games this year for the Irish, and 42 out of the last 43, including last year. This year, Breslin has given up 23 goals for a 1.09 goals-per­game average. That's an im­provement of over a goal a game for Breslin over last year, and, according to Head Coach Dennis Grace, a huge reason for Notre Dame's suc­cess this season. 
"Hugh just had a super year for us this year," said Grace. "He was the glue that held us together in a lot of games, and when he's on, can completely dominate. Against FlU (Florida International Univer­sity at the Southern Bell tourn­ament last weekend), he kept us in the game almost single­handedly with a number of in­credible saves. 
"When we're not scoring (the game ended a 0-0 tie, with the Irish eventually winning the tournament), Hugh's the man that's got to keep us in it. And so far he's done the job." 
The statistics back up Grace's praise. Last year, Breslin set a Notre Dame record for number of saves in a season, with 156. This year, after 21 games, Breslin has re­corded 106 saves and has logged seven shutouts. He feels a sense of satisfaction as he leaves the Notre Dame soccer program. 
"I felt the team played ex­ceptionally well this year," said Breslin, a former three­year letterwinner at Delbarton High School in Morristown. "I was kind of nervous going in. With the tough schedule, I was confident but maybe a little ap­prehensive about how we'd react to it. It turns out we won some really big games and maybe let a few slip away that we shouldn't have. It looks like an average year, but on the 
whole,  I  felt  the  team  
responded  well to our chal­ 
lenges.  

"I'd have to say that this was my most solid year in goal. There were a few games here and there that I didn't play well, but overall, my consis­tency was up from last year. The best games of my career were played this year, too, so I've got to be happy with the way things are going. I've got 
Volleyball 
continuedfrompage 16 
entire game. Victories have been a com­mon occurence for the Irish recently, as they have run off an 18-3 record since Sept. 16, and an overall record of 22-6. But the going won't be quite as easy this weekend, as they play Dayton on Friday night, and two traditionally strong teams in Northwestern and Pit­tsburgh, on Saturday and Sun­day, respectively. 

to hope I can keep things going through Sunday." 
Breslin is on a roll, having given up only two goals in his last four games. But he'd really like to bear down for Sunday's game with Evansville, at 3p.m. on Alumni Field. The Purple Aces are running a close second to Akron in the Great Lakes Region rankings (the Irish rank lOth) and a win would be a great send-off for Breslin. 
"No matter what happens Sunday," said Breslin, "the last two years have just been great experiences for me. I'm really going to miss the prac­tices, the coaches and the guys on the team. Soccer has been so much of my life and I've got­ten to know these guys so well that I'm bound to miss it." 
According to Breslin, Grace is a big part of the Irish turn­around this year, citing his motivational skills as being particularly effective in the team's big wins. 
"Dennis has been my favor­ite coach," said Breslin. "I feel I know how to play my position and he is excellent at helping me to play it the way I know I can. He has a great kind of con­trol over the team -he can be hard on you, but always lets you know he's behind you." 
Grace was not sure about 
Breslin early in the year, as 
rough starts against Bowling 
Green, the University of Wis­
consin at Madison and Mar­
quette started Grace thinking 
hard about the condition of his 
senior keeper. 

"In those three decisions," said Grace, "Hugh certainly didn't play as well as he is ca­pable of playing. I stuck with him, though I could have given some of my four young keepers a little experience. I guess I just had a feeling he'd rebound, and he's done more than that since then. Hugh is a leader by example, and a quality individ­ual. We will badly miss his ex­pertise in the nets next year. 
Breslin regrets not being able to be an active part of fu­ture Irish squads, as he feels upcoming teams will be tough to beat. 
"The future is really bright for Notre Dame soccer," said Breslin. "We earned a lot of respect this year with wins over nationally-recognized teams, and now everyone wants to play us. Even the freshmen who didn't get to play this year are going to be great over the next couple of years. I sure wish I could be here." 


------~~-----~~ --~--~----------~-~~~~--~ ----~~ ---~--~--~---------­
l
The Observer Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 13 
Freshman Banks takes advantage of opportunities for Irish 
l
By MIKE CHMIEL Sports Writer 
Many have held a dream to carry the ball on the gridiron for the Irish, but few have ac­tually had this opportunity. 
For Braxston Banks, such a chance came much sooner than he expected. 
"It is quite enjoyable to be out there on the field and at least have the chance to per­form to my abilities," says Banks. "It is good to feel like I'm part of the team because I'm out there and I'm par­ticipating and I'm into the flow of everything." 
What is truly unique about the playing time Banks has received this season is the fact that it has been delegated to a freshman. A year ago at this time, Banks was helping Moreau High School in Hayward, Calif., to a 7-3 record. 
"He's working his way into the system pretty well," says Irish running back coach Mike Stock. "He's a young guy. Not having been through a spring practice for 20 days of learning the system, he's adjusted quite well, and that's evidenced by the fact that he is playing in a back-up capacity. He's even started a game for us." 
Coming into the fall season, Stock was looking toward up­perclassmen to fill the fullback spot. An injury to junior Frank Starns, however, resulted in an opening to back up seniors Per­nell Taylor and Tom Monahan. 
"My position needed a little help sooner," says the 6-2, 208­pound freshman. "There wasn't anyone else out there outside of Pernell and Tom, be­cause Frank was hurt early. If Frank would not have been hurt, I might not be playing now. It's just a matter of where the chips fell." 
This far into the season, Banks has made the most of his chances. He is currently fifth on the Irish in rushing yardage with 119 yards on 24 carries, along with two receptions. 
"He splits the time," says 
mr rnwrnillLiillr8 Wll:ill~ Lrilll:8[8., 
\1(!]1!1 ilt!J [iJ[ll(!)[lill[l[!.\j ffil!l 
~2ill(!I9JL!.t/ WU1[191 U1~ rn~rn ~ ..r-~_s!_ull_yo_~_p_~_e:_~_iti_·~_:_:r_I~-·~-i~-~_tr_e_~~--~-r~_:e_~_bt_l~-~-~;_:_~_~_i;_r_~-1~-~-er_an....,d 
Beta Alpha Psi 
PRESENTATION 
"The Interview, The Job, and The Workplace" 
Thursday, November 6 -4:15 p.m. 122 Hayes-Healy Auditorium 

He died 

After he turned down food, water and all tr-,e trungs r•e lovea--even sex. And chose cocame instead He did all he wanted until he had a seiZure and died 
This doesn't just happen to anmals in research. It happens to people, too. smart people. SUccessful people People in control. Until they lose all control to a drug thars more addictive than heroin: cocaine. 
They turn away from friends and family Lose JObs and self-esteem And even die before they ever get help 
Getting help for thOse we care about is critical and we can begin by educating ourselves with the facts about cocaine and other drugs 
The University of Notre Dame as a concerned cortmunity has requested Information about substance abuse. In response to this request the University Counseling Center is proud to bring a we)Iknown cocaine and drug expert to our campus 
DATE Thursday, November 6, 1986 TIME 7:00P.M. . PLACE Auditoril.IY'IIM emorial Library PRESENTOR Randy Weber, Part::side Medical Services/ Part:: Ridge, IL FEE FREE 
We need you to come and bring one friend! Demonstrate the Notre · Dame conmitment to caring. 
Stock. "That enables us to keep football, there are just so many everybody pretty fresh. He's good athletes at this level. You got size, strength and quick-just can't stand still and expect ness, and and he's a very your position to be there." coachable young man." While Banks did start at ful-
The Sporting News tauted _lback against Air Force, his Banks as one of the top 100 in-main role is as a reserve. Great coming freshman prospects dedication to football and a this year. At Moreau, Banks strong desire to help his team earned letters in football, bas-have enabled Banks to do well ketball and baseball. Banks in this regard. also set a single-game rushing "I love defense and I love of­record for his school when fense -I love football, no doubt gained 391 yards in a contest. about it," says Banks. "I'd play 
The move to the collegiate wherever they wanted me to ranks did provide a challenge play, just as long as I could for Banks as the college game play. Football is a team sport. proved to be more complex. I'm just a little part in a big, 
"There was an adjustment," intricate system. I'm in there says Banks. "Where I came to help the team in whatever from, the offense was centered way I can." to the point where all I had to Banks feels the Irish are do was run the ball and score. much better than their 3-4 When I got here, I had to read record. the defense, get my blocking "I don't think the record assignment and know where to reflects the players at all," go in order to help the play. says Banks. There's just so much more that "We're going to finish on a college football entails. -positive note. We've got a very 
"Practice is also more in-tough schedule, and we're just tense. It's just like a game. going to take it week by week." Every day, you're going at full For Banks, each week also speed, and if you're not going entails more yardage, and 
All are invited to attend 

A REPRESENTATIVE FROM State University of New York at BUFFALO offering Graduate and 
Professional Programs in 
Architecture & Environmental Design Arts & Sciences Dental Medicine Educational Studies Engineering & Applied Sciences Health Related Professions Infonnation & Library Science Law Management Medicine Nursing Phannacy Social Work 
will be on campus 

November 7,1986 10:00 am-3:00pm 
~-­
The Observer Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 14 

APPhoto ries recently. Lanier was named NL manager of the year yesterday, and details appear at right. 
Houston's Lanier wins NL manager honors 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON-Hal Lanier, who in his first year as a major league manager gave the Hous­ton Astros an aggressive, free­running style that carried them to the National League West title, yesterday became the first rookie to be named Na­tional League Manager of the Year. 
Lanier received 19 of a pos­sible 24 first-place votes in bal­loting by a Baseball Writers As­sociation of America panel and won handily. Davey Johnson, who managed the New York Mets to a victory over the Astros in the NL playoffs, was runnerup with three first-place votes. 
Roger Craig of the San Fran­cisco Giants got the two other first-place votes. 
The balloting by two writers in each league city was com­pleted before the postseason games. 
Lanier finished with 108 points to 62 for Johnson, 42 for Craig, three for John Felske of the Philadelphia Phillies and one for Jim Leyland of the Pit­tsburgh Pirates. 
Five points were awarded for a first-place vote, three points for second and one point for third. 
The Astros said that Lanier was preparing to leave on a belated honeymoon to Fiji with his wife, Mary, and was not available yesterday for com­ment. The Laniers were married last spring. 
Lanier, a former infielder, spent five years as a coach with the St. Louis Cardinals before taking the Astros' job. 
He took over a Houston team that in 1985 finished tied for third in the West, 12 games be­hind the champion Los Angeles Dodgers with an 83-79 record and led them to a 96-66 mark, 10 games better than second­place Cincinnati. He directed an aggressive game, building the team around pitching and turning his players loose on the bases in the manner of the 1985 Cardinals. 
Soccer 
continuedfrom page 16 
mononucleosis, and if results are negative, Grace certainly hopes to have him in the lineup on Sunday. 

"The good thing about our trend," said Grace, "is that we seem to be able to get up for the big ones. I hope we can do it just one more time." 
-------------1 
I I I I 

1725 North Ironwood South Bend 272-714C 
This holidaysearon, get the"Write Stuff' at the right price. 
Now you can get the competitive edge when classes begin in January. With a Macintosh"' personal computer. and all the U'l'ite extras. 
We call it the Macintosh ''Write Stuff" bundle. You'll call it a great deal! Because when you buy a Macintosh "Write Stuff' bundle before january 9. 1987. you'll receive a bundle of extras-and save $250. 
Not only will you get your choice of a Macintosh 512K Enhanced or a Macintosh Plus, you'll also get an Image Writer"' II printer. the perfect solution for producing near letter-quality term papers or reports, complete with graphs. charts. and illustrations. 
Plus, you'll get MacLightning, the premier spelling checker con­taining an 80,000 word dictionary 
with options for thesaurus. medical or legal dictionaries. Together with your favorite Macintosh word processing software, you can transform vour notes into the clearest, most letter Perfect papers you ever turned out And turned in on time. 

What's more. there's a Macintosh Support Kit filled with valuable accessories and computer care products from 3M.* Complete with all the things you need to keep your Macintosh running long after you've graduated. 
Let us show you how to get through college better. faster. and smarter. Stop in and see us for more information. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 25 Computer Center/Math Building 
'((jwCoodll'loiltSo/1/Jbe<Wl 0-"'fM~"" "R"'-'"""R"'fotlo""'"""""""""""""'""R"'"'""'""'"" 
_-'_....,..""_<IARM~"" ~··-<1-·'iif'-'mc 

'JI['4(Jt.c)l4t)l~----------------------------------------------------~T~h;ur~s;da~y~,~N~ov~e;m~b~er~6,~1:~:6~-~p~ag~e~1~5 
Business lunch 
The Daily Crossword 

Bloom County Berke Breathed 

Beer Nuts 
Campus 
10:30 a.m.: Radiation Laboratory Semi­nar, "Photodissolution of Iron Oxides," by Prof. Miguel Blesa, Atomic Energy Com­mission of Argentina, Buenos Aires, Ar­gentina. Conference Theatre, Radiation Laboratory 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar, "Guatemala's Uprooted Indi­ans: Mayan Refugees in the United States," by Shelton H. Davis, 131 Decio Hall 
3:00 p.m.: Navy-Marine Birthday Cere­mony Speaker: Prof. John J. Gilligan, Director, Institute for International Peace Studies. Memorial Library Auditorium 
4:30-6:00 p.m.: Dept. of Modern and Clas­sical Languages Lecture, "Interactive Language Teaching," by Prof. Wilga Rivers, Professor of Languages and Literatures, Harvard University, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
7:00p.m.: Geras Center Training Session for Volunteers Organized in Community Elderly Services (Voices), rm G-136 Memorial Library (enter East Side of Li­brary). For additional information,call 239-5279 
7: 00 p.m. : ND Counseling Center Lecture on Cocaine Abuse by Randy Weber, Parkside Program of Lutheran General Hospital, Chicago, Library Auditorium 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Mark Williams 

7:30 p.m.: SMC Religious Studies Dept. Lecture, "The Christ Question: Who Is Christ for us Today?" by Emily Binns, Vilanova University, O'Laughlin Auditorium 
8:15p.m.: Glee Club Fall Concert, Wash­ington Hall. For tickets call 239-6352 
9:00p.m.: Movie, "The Fountainhead," Architecture Building, $1.50 
9:00 p.m.: Debate, "Nuclear Power", sponsored by the Grace Hall Social Con­cerns Group, Grace Hall Pit 
10:00-11:00 p.m.: talkshow, Monsigner Francis Sampson, Assistant to University President Hesburgh for ROTC, inter­viewed by Campus Perspectives talkshow host Lynne Strand, calls accepted at 239­6400. 
Dinner Menus 
Notre Dame 

BBQ Pork Chops Calzone w/ Mozzarella Fettucini Alfredo Freid Clam Strip Roll 
Saint Mary's 

Roast Beef w/Au Jus Pizza Broccoli Cheese Casserole Deli Bar 


ACROSS 1 Ancient Chin. poet 5 Onetime TV host 
9 Mine entrance 13 Footnote word 14 Ms Abzug 15 The moon 
personified 16 Shore bird 17 Sky Hunter 18 Soviet city 19 Sky luminary 22 Bedaubs 24-whiz! 25 Heat meas. 27 Chit 28 Cousin of etc. 31 Stone chips 33 Arnaz 35 Gr. goddess 37 Keep-on 
(watch) 38 Luminous 

meteors 41 Rose yield 44 Opera solo 45 Alaskan Island 49 Gaucho ropes 51 Benefactions 8 Alps and Andes 53 Dawn goddess 9 Great amount 54 Fr. painter 10 Made to last 55 However 11 In a sluggish 
for short way 57 San Diego 12 Chess master 
nine 14 Kind of rocket 59 Many of 19A 20 Mine stuff 63 Star in Cetus 21 Calyx leaf 64 Proportion 22 Comic Caesar 65 Page 23 Stooge name 68 Indians 26 Bring into 69 UFO creature? service 70 Concerning 29 Plane surface 71 Scatters hay 30 Sky Scales 72 Bird beaks 32 Handle 73 Observed 34 "-first you 
don't..." 

DOWN 36 Navigate 1 Fleur-de--39 Wrathful 2 Wedding words 40 Caricature 3 Constellation 41 Sky Altar 4 Neb. city 42 Wood eater 5 Flippant 43 Diminished 6 Others: Lat. 46 Earthly 7 Progressively 47-the line 
forward 48 Naval letters 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
BULGE  ALESIPROW  
All  I  AS  V 0 TIE  R liD E  
S N 0 R T  E A R N  0 L D S  

-SCENT EAT R E M 0 T E M I N N~[l AILONE DOLCE ECO 
GLUE T-HARP .SAVOY BAS IE 
AlTIER !sOLEMN 
M A T S T A L Llllll 

T I G 'I' I l I ~.!IIIW.AJ
ADEN IRAIN TROILL Mr~ N D NIO N E E E R I E P A T S IG N A W R 0 D E 0 
50 Radar plane 61 Sandpiper 
tracker 62 Hurries 52 Jig or coping 63 Consort of 56 Papal cape Amen 58 Food stores 66 Exist 60 News agency 67 Quagmire 
~-­
S~orts 
ND volleyball breezes past Loyola 
By BRIAN O'GARA Sports Writer 
It was as easy as one-two­three. Or 15-8, 15-7, 15-8, if you're scoring at home. 
That was the way the Notre Dame volleyball team took its sixth consecutive match last evening with an impressive three-game sweep of Loyola. The Irish now look ahead to this weekend as they face Dayton, Northwestern and Pittsburgh in three tough home matches. 
The Irish came out strong and spirited, as the hustle of junior setter Kathy Morin and the kills of freshman Kathy Cunningham gave them a quick 8-3 lead. The Lady Ramblers battled back to bring the score to 8-7, but Coach Art Lambert called his troops to­gether for a time-out, and the Notre Dame rallied to win the first game, 15-8. 

Loyola scored the first point of game two for its only lead of the evening, 1-0. This lead quickly disappeared, however, as the Irish played tough defense at the net and ran off 11 straight points to take an 11-1 lead. Sophomore Maureen Shea led the Irish defense with two solo blocks and nine block assists on the night. 
Despite a four-point run by Loyola, Notre Dame put the game away behind the setting of Morin and the kills of soph­omore Mary Kay Waller, win­ning the second game 15-7. 
The ACC Pit crowd of 205 sensed sweep and would not be disappointed. The third and final game began with both teams trading points for a 3-3 tie. Enter freshman setter Taryn Collins, who recorded 10 assists in her only game of the night and had the Lady Ramblers chasing kills all over the court. 
Collins set up sophomore Zanette Bennett to break the tie, and then teamed with Wal­ler for three straight points. Two blocks by Shea and senior Karen Sapp held off the final Loyola challenge, and junior Kathy Baker put the Lady Ramblers away with a kill to win the game, 15-8. 
Lambert was pleased with his team's 49-minute victory. 
"We served very well tonight," he said. "This was an easy team to let down against, but we didn't. I was very pleased." 
Lambert also noted the strong play of Sapp, who regis­tered three blocks and three timely digs while playing the 
see VOLLEYBALL, page 12 
Irish soccer shuts out W.Michigan 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 
A trend seems to be develop­ing late in the season for the Notre Dame soccer team. And, all things considered, Head Coach Dennis Grace hopes it continues. 
The Irish defeated Western Michigan, 2-0, yesterday to pull its record to 13-6-1 and set the stage for the team's season finale with highly-ranked Evansville on Sunday at 3 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
But, as has been the case for a very good part of the season, Notre Dame played down to the level of an opponent that per­haps should not even have been in the game. That distresses Head Coach Dennis Grace. 
"Sure, we won the game," said the third-year coach. "But it was probably our worst col­lective effort of the year. I don't think we played well at all. We've just come off of a couple of super games down in Florida (the Southern Bell Tourna­ment, which the Irish won), and now this, right before Evansville. Our soccer team has enough so that they <Western Michigan) should not be that close. A bad bounce here and there and we could have easily lost that game." 

Though the Irish controlled the ball much of the first half, they could not capitalize on a scoring opportunity until a minute remained in the half. Sophomore Randy Morris then took a pretty feed from Pat Murphy and floated a chip shot past the outstretched arms of Bronco goaltender David Lit­tleton. The narrow 1-0 deficit at halftime, however, did noth­ing to dampen Western Mic­higan's spirit as it gamel~ fought for the upset in the second half. 
"Ifwe could have scored ear­ly, like we had chances to," said Grace, "Western Mic­higan might have let up a bit. But we've just got to make everything as tight as we can. I've got to give it to the Broncos -they certainly played us as tough as they could have." 
In a hotly-contested second half which saw both sides miss chances, the lone goal was tallied with about 30 seconds remaining, with sophomore John Guignon centering to freshman Rolfe Behrje, and Behrje putting the game out of reach with a blast from the top of the penalty box. 
Freshman fullback Pat McClanahan did not suit up for the game yesterday. He was under observation to deter­mine if he had contracted 
see SOCCER, page 14 


Thursday, November 6, 1986-page 16 
Head coach tries hand as head shrink 
One gets the feeling listening to Lou Holtz that you have to be a little bit crazy to be the head coach of Notre Dame. 
Either that, or you have to be as good a head shrink as a head coach. Perhaps this fact has not been more evident than in this week of practice, when Holtz set about preparing his split­personality squad for a final four of which even John Wooden would not want to be a part. 
SMU, Penn State, LSU and USC all loom as ter­rors for an Irish team that has been trying to exorcise the ghosts of past failures while ressur­recting the spirit of Rockne. So far Irish fans have seen a stunning, wide-open team match up with one of the best teams in the country one week, only to see a mistake-prone effort the next. 
Things, of course, seemed hopeful in the first half of last week's game with Navy when the Irish rolled up a 28-0 halftime lead to go with the pre­vious 31-3 pounding of Air Force. Then, just to add to the confusion it seenied, came a poor second­half performance that saw the Middies roll up 13 first downs to Notre Dame's six. 
Mter six games, therefore, questions remain that only a veteran psychologist like Holtz could answer. 
Is there a split personality to the Irish team? 
"I was disappointed after the (Navy) game be­cause I didn't think we had played well in the second half," said Holtz. "But after looking at the film, I think our football players ... just never got any continuity because of a couple of foul-ups. We played pretty well but also had poor field-position many times. 
"But yes, we don't put it all together in some areas. We may well be a good football team depending on which quarter you want to look at. Right now, fundamentally and in technique, we are good enough to be a solid team." 

Marty
Burns 
Football Notebook 

How important is it for the Irish mentally to beat SMU this week? 
"Reaching .500 has a tremendous psychological advantage, particularly when you were in a (1-4) hole like we were," said Holtz. "It is for me, and I know it is for the ballplayers. This is a very important ballgame in that, boy, if you can get that ball rolling and pick up some momentum and believe, it helps your team's confidence." 
Was there too much pressure placed on Tim Brown early this season? 
"Uncharacteristically I made the comment that I thought Tim Brown was one of the best I'd ever been around, after only a few days of practice," said Holtz. "And I think I put some pressure on him and it wasn't very smart on my part. But by the same token, if Brown plays his football 2ame. 
he's going to have the types of games he's had the past two weeks. Now, had we not had the protec­tion and all that, we couldn't have even got him the ball. So you have to be lucky to have a lot of things fall into place as well. That's why I don't want Brown to feel that if things don't fall his way one day that he let other people down." 
Did you know, coach, that there were represen­tatives from the Florida Citrus Bowl and the Freedom Bowl at the Navy game? 
"There were bowl scouts here?" Holtz asked. 
"They must be lost. 
"My philosophy has always been that if you win enough football games the polls and the bowls will take care of themselves. I've taken worse teams than this one to bowl games and won. But they had better records. So I'm not concerned about bowls, just getting better." 
Perhaps the only people who really need their heads examined in this whole affair is, as Holtz noted, the bowl scouts themselves. 
Most bids are scheduled to be extended right before the Nov. 29 USC game, and since it would be practically inconceivable that Notre Dame­would accept any bid with more than five losses, the Irish would have to win two of their next three games just to get a bid. Then, of course, they would have to beat the Trojans before accepting the offer . 
.... 

