--------~~-~---~-­
Singles -page 13 · 
---·­

VOL. XXI, NO. 41 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1986 

the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Ma11·'s 
Decision to divest to be finalized by Board of Trustees 
By MARILYN BENCHIK see him (Keough) making any Assistant Saint Mary's Editor specific changes. He will not 
steer us down a specific path. 

The University of Notre The subject will come up for Dame Board of Trustees will discussion, then the Board can meet Nov. 14 to decide the fate make a careful analysis." of the University's involve­The South Mrican question ment in South Mrica. Since the will be investigated again at 
last Board meeting on May 9, the Board's next meeting. Mar­IBM, GM and Honeywell have garita Rose, chairperson for pulled their stocks out of South the Anti-Apartheid Network, Mrica. said that she thinks the Board 
The University has invest­will decide to divest. ments of approximately $31.5 "Perhaps I'm being too opti­million in about 30 companies mistic, but given the decision doing business in South Mrica. of the United States Catholic 
In its May meeting, the Bishop Conference, the South Board authorized divestment African Bishop Conference and from any company doing busi­the congressional sanctions ness in South Mrica if that against South Mrica, the situa­company is not influencing the tion does look favorable. dismantling of the system of "Some reasons for divest­apartheid, or if circumstances ment have been long standing. warrant this action because of Black South Mrica is calling further deterioration of condi­for divestment," said Rose. tions in South Mrica. Joseph Merchant, member of 
At this same meeting, the the Anti-Apartheid Network, Board also directed its execu­said, "The increasing corpor­tive committee and its invest­ate investigation is part of 1 ment committee to review the growing trend. However, wha South Mrican policy at each I see as being pertinent to thi: meeting and report to the full institution's investigation deci Board. sions are recent moves by tht Donald Keough, president United States Catholic Bishops and chief operating officer of who voted unanimously fm the Coca-Cola Co., is also chair­Catholic institutions to divest. man of the Notre Dame Board "Georgetown, another Cath­of Trustees. Keough was olic University, has voted to elected president of the Board divest as well as the diocese of in May, replacing Thomas Car­Baltimore. Considering the sit­ney. uation in Catholic circles, these 
The Coca-Cola Co. an­divestments should, in part, nounced Sept. 17 it would sell play a decisive role in the all of its holdings in South Board's decision," Merchant Mrica in protest of that said. country's policy of racial Not everyone is as sanguine separation. as Rose and Merchant. Accor­
Pat Mullen, vice chairperson ding to Pat Mullen, "I hope for the Anti-Apartheid Net­they will divest now, but con­work, said that he does not sidering how occupied the think Coca-Cola's divestment Board is with the election of a will effect the Board's decision. new president, they probably 
Robert Wilmouth, chairman won't spend too m,uch time on of the University's Investiga­tion Committee said, "I do not see DIVEST, page 4 
Kid-stuff 
President and Mrs. Reagan greet children, attending the signing this week in the White House East Room, of H.R. 5484, the Anti­Drug Abuse Act of 1986. 
By MICHAEL J. CHMIEL Staff Reporter 
The renovation of the LaFor­tune Student Center will be "substantially complete" in three weeks according to Chris Nye, managing architect for the project. 
Delays in the shipment of materials last spring had postponed the tentative date for completion to sometime last week. A series of "things here or things there,'' however, has caused a further postpone­ment to sometime before Thanksgiving. 
"We're shooting for substan­tial completion in three weeks," said Nye. "The build­ing will be basically done, but we'll be back to do punch items which are things that I may find wrong such as painting." 
While most of the renovation will be complete by mid­November, however, work crews will not vanish from the area until the spring of 1987. 
"Everything won't be per­fect again until spring-time be­cause they will have to re-sod the area," said Nye. 
"I'd be much happier if we were done right now," Nye said. "But I think the building is coming out super. It's com­ing together the way I had hoped it would, as far as what it's going to look like and how it's going to work." 
Currently, the second and third floors are complete ex­cept for some minor patchwork, according to Nye. All of the organizations with space on those floors have moved in and are adjusting to the new surroundings. 
The first floor is also in good condition except for the Huddle which is experiencing the greatest delays, Nye said. Ac­cording to Nye, problems in the Huddle are centered around delays in the shipment of kitchen equipment. 
"Cross your fingers on the Huddle," said Nye. "The first floor is done except for some work in the Huddle which predominantly irivolves kitchen equipment. We do have the furniture in and the booths in, it's painted and it's car­peted. Hopefully, at Thanks­giving, we'll have at least part of the Huddle open," he said. 
Other than the Huddle, the basement poses the next greatest challenge for the proj­ect. Currently, contractors are finishing up painting work on the bottom floor. 
"In the basement ... we are painting," Nye said. "Mter painting, the floor finishes will go down, and then we'll be out of there. 
"We're looking at about three weeks for most of the work to be done," he said. 
One area that has met its Oc­tober date for completion is the ballroom which will house Theodore's, a non-alcoholic bar and lounge. Despite "some out­lets, some wiring, and some other minor things," Theodore's will open its doors tomorrow. 
According to Nye, construc­tion and renovation of the many different offices that LaFor­tune will house has not posed the main problem. 
"It's not so many rooms," 
· said Nye. "It's renovating an 
old building. Renovating an old 
building is much more difficult 
than a new building because 
you don't know for sure what's 
there until you tear the walls 
open," he said. 
When the building is com­
plete, Nye expects students to 
be surprised. 
"The basic format of the 
building -what's in there -has 
stayed the same," Nye said. 
"The thing that will surprise 
people is that the building will 
not look like a typical Notre 
Dame building inside. The 
surprise will be the building it­
self . . . the finishes and the 
colors and the appearance," he 
said. 
"It's probably more contem­
porary but a sophisticated con­
temporary. It's not a very 
flashy contemporary, 
however, there are some areas 
that have some flash . . . like 
the Miami room, an eating and 
meeting area next to the 
Huddle," Nye said. . 
Despite the contemporary 
flare, Nye believes that some 
may not be pleased with the 
final product. 
"This thing has been in the 
works for four years, and you 
always run across difficulty in 
something like this, especially 
in the student sector of the 
building," he said. "They may 
say they didn't have any input 
... well they didn't. But their 
predecessors did, and as they 
get in, they might find that they 
don't like some things." 
"It's the best thing I've done," Nye said. "It's a much better utilization of space." 

The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 2 

In Brief 
The University of California at Santa Barbara fired a campus radio disc jockey for playing a 15-minute record that narrated the thoughts of a fictional couple during a violent sexual encounter. "It's one thing to.introduce new ideas and broaden horizons," the station manager said, "but it's another to abuse our audience." -The Observer 
Vice President George Bushwill visit Notre Dame to attend the Nov. 15 football game against Penn State, the Univer­sity announced Wednesday. Bush was invited by Univer­sity President Father Theodore Hesburgh, who enclosed a football schedule in a letter to the vice president. Bush attended a Notre Dame game more than a decade ago as a guest of the late O.C. Carmichael Jr., then treasurer of the Republican National Committee and a local civic leader, Hesburgh said. Penn State, 7-0, is ranked second nationally. Notre Dame is 2-4. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
The MBA Mini Forum, featuring representatives from about 40 MBA schools is being held today from noon to 4 
p.m. in the lower level of the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. All seniors and juniors interested in pursuing MBA school immediately after graduation or deferring admis­sion for one or two years are encouraged to attend by Career and Placement Services. -The Observer 
"Advances in Sociological Research," an Exxon Distin­guished Visiting Scholar Series, will be presented by Pro­fessors William Form and Joan Huber of Ohio State Uni­versity today. At 2 p.m., Form will speak on "The Degradation of Skills HYe?thesis" in the Memorial Library Lounge, while Huber will lecture on "Trends in Gender Stratification" at 4 p.m. in 283 Galvin Life Science Center. Huber received the Jesse Bernard Award of the American Sociological Association in 1985. -The Observer 
"Career Opportunities for American Studies and English Majors" will be presented by Career and Placement Ser­vices Associate Director Paul Reynolds today at 4:10p.m. in 105 O'Shaughnessy. All juniors and seniors are invited to attend. -The Observer 
Democratic Congresswoman Corrine Claiborne "Lindy" Boggs from Louisiana's second District, will lecture on "Religion and Politics: The View from Capital Hill" tonight at 8 in the Center for Continuing Education's auditorium. Boggs became the first woman elected to Congress from Louisiana on March 20, 1973, after winning a special election called to fill a vacancy left by the dis­appearance of her husband, House Majority Leader Hale Boggs, who was lost the previous year during a plane flight over Alaska. -The Observer 
Theodore's will be the focus of tonight's Campus Perspectives talkshow on WVFI-AM 640. From 10 to 11, host Lynne Strand will interview Theodore's General Manager Vince Willis, Catering Director Laurie Bink, and Programming Director Tom Utter. Questions and com­ments will be accepted at 239-6400. -The Observer 
Grace Hall continues its series of debates on social con­cerns tonight at 9 with the subject of the role of women in the Catholic Church. -The Observer 
The annual Hibernian Lecture will be held today in the Memorial Library Lounge at 4 p.m. -The Observer 
Weather 
Ifyou have been getting nostalgic for the sun lately, today may bring back some fond memories as the sky shows a cool, technicolor blue and temperatures bee­bop out of the early 40s and into the 50s. Tomorrow features the hip temps of the mid-60s and a 30 percent chance for the rain to stage a peaceful protest to nothing in particular. -Associated Press 

·----~ 
1
LfJ 
Design Editor . .... Rob "Lux" Lux em Design Assistant ........ Bob White Typesetter . ........... Michael Buc News Editor ....... Ann Kaltenbach Copy Editor . .......... Bud Luepke Sports Copy Editor . ... Lefty Oriesell Vtewpoint Copy EdltorAlison Pivonka VIewpoint Layout. . . . Alice Groner 
Accent Copy Edltort:aroline Gillespie Accent Layout .... Katy Kronenberg Typist ............, .. Colleen Foy ND Day Editor ......... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor . Theresa Harrington AdDesign ...... Catherine Ramsden Photographer ......... Mike Moran .................... Michael Ury 
The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing Tbe Observer, P.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Next ND president should share Hesburgh's philosophy and vision 
Way back when, David Letterman posted an imposing calendar to count down the days until Phil Donahue moved his show to New York. 
Letterman's countdown became famous over the television; however, the suspense was not very great since everyone knew who was doing what and when. 
In a much a more serious way, I imagine many of the old priests and administrators at Corby Hall are awaiting the announcement of the new University president. 
As each day gets a big "X" mark, Notre Dame moves 24 hours closer to making official who will replace Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
While The Observer lacks the dramatic flare of Late Night, the staff has been preparing for who it will be, what challenges and changes will he oversee and how Notre Dame will react to his selection. 
A good daily newspaper takes days to produce. 
In The Observer's case, the J?rocess of col­lecting and organizing information on the pos­sible choices began quite a long time ago. 
Still, as a friend and longtime Notre Dame priest told me last spring, no one really knows who it will be. Those that do aren't talking, he said, and those that don't are. Rather than speculate on who it might be and try to make a horse race out of a very serious and monumental moment at Notre Dame, I would like to suggest that no matter who it is, Notre Dame will continue to grow and prosper. 
Notre Dame Magazine has identified five men as possible choices. While I do not know all of these men, I am sure that whoever it is, he will do a fine job managing an excellent University. 
Last spring, someone handed me a survey asking for student input on the presidential se­lection. It asked: "What is the most important qualification the new president should pos­sess?" 
I said he must be an excellent administrator. Itis not enough to be honest, hard-working, fair and so forth. To run this institution, the presi­dent must be a strong and effective leader. He must meet the vigorous financial and academic demands which will be placed on him. 
First and foremost in my opinion, he must be an organizer of people, a man who knows how to achieve the ends which the University seeks within the Catholic context of Notre Dame. 
The president must embody the characteris­tics of the University. He must be a man of competence, compassion and character who has a strong Catholic faith. For these reasons, I believe the next president should be a member of the Holy Cross Order which as a collective entity embodies the faith and profound spirit of Our Lady's school. Essential also is that the president be familiar with Notre Dame's uniaue strengths and weaknesses. Thus, he should be 

LOOKING FOR A 
LITTIE DIVERSION UNDER THE DOME? 
A Trip for 2 to USC . .. All expenses paid! travel discounts free albums t-shirts 
and more. 
COME UP AND TAKE A LOOK 2nd floor Iafortune GRAND OPENING FRIDAY OCT 31st 



oe 
Murphy 
Editor-in-Chief 

a member of the community of Notre Dame and have extensive experience working with its present staff since he will have to do so once he assumes office. 
As the University has become more for­malized, the distance between the administra­tion and the students has widened. The new president must keep in close contact with the students to know their needs. The world changes quickly. Educating Catholic students for this world must be the central component of his philosophy. 
The big task Notre Dame faces results di­rectly from its success. 
The new president will have to maintain in­creasingly higher academic standards while upholding Notre Dame's strong Catholic char­acter. The task is much easier to put into words than to do. 
But enough of my words, the only man to truly know what type of person the next presi­dent must be is the man who has made the presidency what it is. 
In a recent issue of America magazine, Fa­ther Hesburgh said to those who ask, "What is the most important factor for the future of the whole enterprise?", Hesburgh simply said, "Guard your Catholic character as you would your life." 
He continued by stating, "We receive enor­mous support because we work hard, in season and out, to be what we profess to be: an excel­lence that is profoundly Catholic." 
May the next president share Hesburgh's phi­losophy and vision. May Our Lady, who guided Hesburgh, guide him. 
ARE YOU 


The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986, -page 3 
MBA School Forum to aid student choices 
By CARL PUTNAM News Staff 
Information regarding ad­missions and special programs of 37 MBA schools will be the main thrust of the MBA School Forum today from noon to 4 in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation, according to Career and Placement Services Director Kitty Arnold. 
The event is designed to help students make a knowledge­able choice of schools. "There is an overwhelming amount of information to wade through,'' Arnold said. 
According to Arnold, the Forum is an informal meeting of students and MBA admis­sions representatives. The rep­resentatives will be able to an­swer questions concerning admissions, special programs and other pertinent informa­tion about graduate school. 
Students should learn all about their options before makin~ a choice, said Arnold. She sa1d most students are not aware that they have the option of defering admission for a to gain experience or financial stability before entering MBA school. Students also have the option of entering a special pro­gram such as a combination law and business degree, Ar­nold said. 
According to Arnold, the 
forum has met with nothing but praise from students and schools alike. Students gain the opportunity to speak with rep­resentatives of such highly re­garded schools as Boston Col­lege, Stanford and the University of Michigan. Graduate school representa­tives have found it well organ­ized and "they are always com­plimentary to the caliber of students," Arnold said. 
The MBA School Forum was modeled after several major forums held annually in Chicago, New York and Los An­gelos, said Arnold. 
All students are encouraged to attend regardless of major or class. Arnold said the schools "don't demand a Busi­
but look for 


DOME-OPOLY 
. .. 

rB:'J------····'~~iir~:0::~tYO.:\:~·"""-<.g~""~"k'·
The Observer /Mike Moran 

Room and board 
Just in case you are having trouble incorporat­swer to Monopoly, to enjoy in your leisure. ing Notre Dame into every facet of your life, Dome-oploy, the idea of 1984 Saint Mary's 
now have 

A refreshing alternative! No bitter aftertaste! 
Lemon Lager is now available at these fine establishments. .. 
Bridget McGulres Kevin's Frank's Place Kings' Cellar Casun's Osco Drugs Morin's Cafe Uncle's Irish Pub 331 Inn Max's Uquors Helnnle's Sterling Ave Uquors The Uquor Station Pine's Uquors Dale's Place Ironwood Uquors Stubby's Prairie Uquors Mitchell's Indiana Club Eagles Super Saver Miami Plaza Liquor Store Council Oak Liquors Bullseye Uquors Pink Elephant Liquor Store 12th St. Liquors Party Package Rodlnb-Parkmor Uquors Ski's Place Corktowne Liquors The Pop Stop Rlverpark Liquors Chevron Cafe Mcl<lnnley Pub Y-Knot Shack Cut Rate Uquors Commons Thomburg Drug Harris Liquor Store Clra's Supermarket McKinnley Terrace Market Lee's Liquors Backstage I Papa Joe's Mr. Al's Liquors Superette Food Market Pak'n Shop Stores Office Lounge Pizza Tyme Eagle Inn . East Race Uquors Gene and Mary's Alibi Inn Ul' Caesar's Hank's Supermarket Barg-N-Bag Last Stop Liquors Ranita Grill Portage Liquors T & C Liquors Pizza King The Package Store Walgreen's City Wide Liquors Giannetto's Hickory Hiram's OC Uquors Green Star Cafe Chuck's Tavern 

Notre Dame's an-graduates, can be bought in the bookstore. 
Magazine writer says liability not to blame 
By JIM RILEY Assistant News Editor 
The threat posed by industry and insurance carriers to Americans' common law rights was discussed br Paul Brodeur Wednesday m the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Brodeur, a writer for New Yorket magazine, spoke of the "massive, unprecedented as­sault on strict liability and common law rights." 
"Government regulation in this country is abysmally inef­fective," said Brodeur. "The only thing (to protect consu­mers) is the common law and the fact that (the companies) fear punitive damages. 
"Their is no such thing as the liability crisis. This is a colos­sal hoax," said Brodeur. He said some insurance compan­ies are jacking up rates on places such as day-care centers and want to claim it is because of liability. But the ar­bitrary raising of rates often has much to do with needing money to ~ay off their asbestos and envrronmental claims, said Brodeur. 
"Industry wants to de-form not reform the tort system," said Brodeur. Under current law, manufacturers are ex­pected to test products to make sure they do not cause a dan­ger, according to Brodeur. When products do cause injury, manufacturers can be liable under the common law to pay ~unitive damages to the in­Jured party. But industry wants to do away with punitive damages, said Brodeur. 
The common law is the court­made part of justice, not depen­dent on legislation or the con­stitution, according to a law professor. Much law is formed by precendents set in previous cases. 
Strict liability, a concept that is hundreds of years old, began when makers of food and drink were required to guarantee the safety of what they made. This required guarantee was even­tually extended to all products, said Brodeur. 
Though a company acts as a "person," it "cannot be placed in the same jeopardy as a per­son," said Brodeur. Therefore the company can only be as­sessed punitive damages, Brodeur said. 
But companies don't want to pay these damages, said Brodeur. "They want to be above the law." According to Brodeur, insurance companies say they want the reforms be­cause "morally flaccid" jurors are awarding too high of dama­ges and should be stripped of their power. 
"Never mind that insurance companies have not shown they are m any economic danger,'' said Brodeur. 
Brodeur said what lies be­hind the alleged insurance crisis is the triumph of the com­mon law in recent asbestos cases. 
Insurance companies and as­bestos manufacturers had known for years that their product was dangerous, accor­ding to Brodeur, yet they claimed they didn't know of the danger until 1964. Brodeur went on to cite many cases, dating back to 1918, where the companies and their insurers had known about the dangers; according to Brodeur. 
The insurance industry has underwritten policies as fast as it can, said Brodeur. He also said the industry has made bad 
investments  in  farm  
mortgages and Sunbelt  oil  
wells.  

"Insurance companies want to stop lump sum payments of damages," and just pay the victim the interest while keeping the principal, said Brodeur. The principal would be returned to the insurance company when the person died. 
Instead of punitive damages, insurance companies and in­dustry "want to substitute a simple schedule of payment . . . . That way they can fold the cost of claims into the cost of production. And make it predictable," said Brodeur. 


.... ... 
'<If -4' 

The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 4 
the argument that has been when conditions have 
used to justify remaining in deteriorated to the point where 
South Africa, this a~ment
··-----lllllftlltlft.________ divestment is necessary. _ HOURS: 5:00. Midnight 272-5455 I
NAUGLES® I
501 Dlxleway North, Roseland, Indiana 

NAUGLES TO YOUR DORM!! I 
HolyCrossFathers 

Fr. Salvatore Fonelll, C.S.C., on the day of Fr. F11nelli on the occasion of his 60th his ordinlJtion, June 16, 1919. lJnniversary to the priesthood, June 16, 
1979. 
God gives each person one lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
For further information or vocational counseling with no obligation contact: 
I 
Fr. Michael D. Couhlg, esc Fr. Paul F. Doyle, esc Box541 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 239-6385 

I I 
The Observer /Mike Moran 
Floorishing LaFortune 
The undergraduate bar and ballroom in the for business. Called Theodore's, the party-room LaFortune Student Center is finished and ready will open its doors tomorrow night. 
National Commission on AIDS 
created to avert health catastrophe 
Associated Press ence. "We emphasized that against the disease by using these funds must be new appro-condoms during sexual inter­
WASHINGTON -The Na-priations, not funds redirected course -either anal or vaginal tional Academy of Sciences, from other health and research -with an infected or possibly in­lamenting "woefully inade-efforts." fected persons, and by not quate'' federal programs to An additional $1 billion a year sharing needles and syringes,'' cope with America's new -mostly federal money but with Wolff said. health threat, called Wednes-substantial contributions from Stopping AIDS cases through day for creation of a National state and local governments, education and public health Commission on AIDS. industry and private sources -programs will only cost a frac­
The prestigious academy, in should be spent on education tion of the price of caring for a major report on the increas-and public health programs, patients with the disease, esti­ing problems of Acquired Im-said Baltimore, director of the mated to rise to between $8 bil­mune Deficiency Syndrome, Whitehead Institute for lion and $16 billion by 1991, he said the only way to avoid a Biomedical Research in said. health catastrophe in this Cambridge, Mass. The panel said a vaccine to country is to launch "perhaps These programs would in­prevent AIDS, or developing the most wide-ranging and in-elude sex education in schools, safe and effective drugs for tensive efforts ever made efforts to get people at high risk long-term treatment, is at least against an infectious disease.'' of getting AIDS to change their five years away. This means 
A panel of experts convened sexual habits, blood screening that prevention through educa­by the academy said the nation to identify those infected with tion presently is the best way should be spending about $2 bil-the AIDS virus, rehabilitation to slow the disease, it added. lion annually by 1990, most of for drug abusers, and testing it new federal money, in a the idea of providing dis­Federal education efforts to multi-pronged effort to thwart posable syringes to addicts who date have been "woefully in­the deadly disease. refuse treatment, the panel adequate," the panel said, 
Research into the nature of said. more so because the messages the viral disease, treatments Dr. Sheldon Wolff of Tufts have not been frank and clear and vaccines should get $1 bil-University, the other co­than because of inadequate lion a year by the end of the chairman, said that until ways funding. decade, said Dr. David Bal-are developed to prevent the timore, a Nobel laureate who disease, the best hope of cur-The latest study called for was co-chairman of the study. bing it is education. AIDS most candid educational efforts 
"Our committee believes commonly is spread by sexual aimed at high-risk groups, such that sufficient areas of need activity and sharing con-as sexually active people with and opportunity exist to quad-taminated needles during drug multiple partners, teen-agers ruple the 1986 AIDS research abuse, behavior people can in-entermg the age of drug and funding by 1990 to about $1 bil-fluence, he said. sex experimentation, and eth­lion in newly available funds," "People should be told that nic minority groups who suffer 
r~\i,~~\]~1 ,~~~~f,!E'~IORS~m~r~ g~~~r~~~~~~n~~ ~gfi 
m: 
Do you desire to live and to !iii explore further in your life the ideals of Christian service and community as a lay person? 
\\\\ If so, we invite you to consider I :·:· Holy Cross Associates Program ·:·:
I ~0~~~~19~~plication Deadline: ~; 
~ ~~~ :~ :~~: ~Jane Pitz { Center for Social Concerns HCA Office ) 
~t:::::::::::::::=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~Z?::~:?:l:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::=:=:::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::=======:=::::::::::::::::::::~:~~:~::;2::::::::::::::::::::\\j: 
Div·est 
continuedfrom page 1 
the divestment issue." 
"The Board meets again in early May or late April, and they are probably more likely to divest then if they divest at all," Mullen said. 
Mullen said that he was not sure if the Board's decision would be effected by the recent IBM, GM and Honeywell pull­outs. 
"The case has been made over the years that these com­panies help out South African blacks, or at least some com­panies make this claim. I'm not sure if IBM, GM and Honeywell did specifically. These com­panies leaving now makes one wonder if they really did care that much, or if they are just not making money in South Africa. 
"These pull-outs undermine 

MEXICAN KI~~H~~. 
Taco  1.09  1.69  
Bunltoe  
Bean  1.79  2.49  
Meat  2.39  3.29  
Combo  2.09  2.79  
Cheeoe  1.89  2.59  

Make any burrito wet for 50 cents!! 

P.S. Don't order mlrlx> wUess you're ready for a pound of goodies! Nachoa &: Cheeee 1.19 :ilia~ch~:.r no extra charge to spice them 
Macho Nacho"• 2.19 Reflied beans, chips, cheese, peppers, mlld meat sauce, spicy green sauce! 
Toatada Grande 3.29 (In • shell · wonderful) Rog. ·Planer Mexican Salad 1.29 2.89 Tootada Combo 1.59 2.09 Chile Ole' .99 2.39 Taco Sandwich 1.49 2.59 Chicken Sandwich 1.74 2.84 
Platter · Assortment of sauces & side orders. Want It a spedal way · Jl!st order It! 
Enchilada'• (Plotter of 2) Meat· lotza sauce & cheese 2.00 
DINNERS "1 Enchilada · bed ,z Macho Taco #3 Meat Burrito 
•4 Cheeee Burrito &: Taco 
Complete with Mexican salad, relried beans, chill & cheese, guacamole, sour cream & a pile of chips. Adinner with enou~ left """ for tomonow's LUNCH! 
4.79 

Plus tax~6.00 minimum order 
being that it is better for Amer­ican companies to help out in­stead of chickening out. It proves the profit factor is what keeps companies there, not anything else. This is just the way companies run, and they shouldn't pretend to be anyth­ing else," Mullen said. 
Robert Wilmouth, of the Na­tional Futures Association in Chicago, said, "There is definitely a split on the Board. In view of the circumstances the Board will probably vote to stay with the companies in South Africa. I don't see any drastic change in University policy." 
Wilmouth said "The Board will look at the Sullivan Prin­ciples to see if they are being applied. They will also investi­gate the deteriorating condi­tions in South Africa." 
Wilmouth said "deteriorat­ing conditions" is a vague term, but he said that the Board will consider divestment 
AM~~!~:..~4 ~~~:~EN I 
CUSTOM GRD...l..ED NOT STOCK Pll..ED 
I 
Naugleburger 1.99 2 Patties with the works· 
I 
double cheese 
Deluxe Hamburger 1.39 
I 2 Patties with lettuce, tomato, mayo dressing Hamburger 1.19 
I 
~~s~=-:~pk:kif:. ketchup, add cheese .20 
DESSERTS Hot Fudge • Hot Caramel • Strawbeny • Orange Bluebmy • Chocolate • Cherry • Vanilla • Root Beer Shake• 1.09 Sundae. 1.49 Fudge Brownie .69 Paotry .69 Fudge Brownie Sundae 1.69 
DRINK UP! 
Cold Beverages Liter· .94 Pepsi. Diet Pepsi, Root Beer, Mt. Dew Dr Pepper, Welches, Slice, Lemonade, Ice Tea 
MUk, Orange Juice also available Hot Beverage• ~ .47 
I 
Coffee. Hot Chocolate. Hot Tea 
SIDE ORDERS 
french Frla .99 Refrled Beano .99 with chlll aauce .99 Nocho Chi.,. .39 Guacamole Fresh, Fresh, Fresh .89 Sour Cream .25 Extra cheeae for anything .50 
I 


The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 5 
Reagan campaigns to maintain a Republican Senate 
Associated Press 
President Reagan crusaded for continued Republican con­trol of the Senate on Wednes­day, while Democratic chal­lengers in some of the nation's closest races were buoyed by fresh poll results and newspa­per endorsements. 
In Alabama's bizarre guber­natorial race, Attorney Gen­his write-in candidacy. Grad­dick, a conservative former Republican who lost the Dem­ocratic nomination on a court ruling earlier this year, has been running a distant third in public opinion polls. 
As the candidates headed into the final week of cam­paigning, the Federal Election Commission reported that the Republican National Commit­raised more than $225 million since the beginning of the two­year election cycle. That's nearly four times the $57 mil­lion reported by their Demo­cratic counterpart commit­tees. 

Reagan left Washington aboard Air Force One for a seven-state swing that will end Election Day in California. He made an afternoon stop in freshman Sen. James Abdnor, who is in a tight re-eMction campaign with Democratic Rep. Tom Daschle. 
On his way west, Reagan stopped in Evansville, Ind., where he accused Democrats of a "naked display of power politics" in awarding a House from the 1984 campaign. 
seat  two  years  ago  to  Rep.  
Frank  McCloskey.  McClos­ 
key's  opponent  this  year  is  

Mcintyre and McCloskey split the vote in 1984. GOP state officials in Indiana certified Mcintyre the winner by a 34­vote margin, but the Democratic-ruled House conducted its own recount and found McCloskey the winner by four votes. 
Reagan's stop in Indiana was his only one dedicated to a 

eral Charlie Graddick signaled tee and GOP house and Senate South Dakota on behalf of Richard Mcintyre, his rival he was considering dropping campaign committees have 

--=uRBAN PL
South Bend's 320 West
Mitchell's 
Total Jefferson
•
Entertainment South Bend 
Center Indiana 

APPUCAnoN DIADUNE ~~ 
EXTENDED...
134-5313
Indiana Club 

UNTIL OCTOBER 31 
applications available at: 
G)
THE SCENE 

Ceaterfor Soc:fal Coace,....
N.D. m
Ualuenlty ltflaqtry 
Wednesday, Oct. 29-Saturday, Nov. 1 THE AREA'S HOTIEST BAND 

ca...,u.ltfla'-try
S.M.C. 
Office of~u•tlce Educatloa
HALLOWEEN PARTY 
Friday, Oct. 31 Costume Contest 

for more lriformation, call239-7943 
$1.00 off cover with full costume 

HUNDREDS OF CASSEnES and ALBUMS 
THE CLASH GIVE 'EM ENOUGH ROPE 
including: Guns On The Roof/Last Gang In Town i All The Voung Punks {New Boots And Contracts) Safe European Home/Tommy Gun 
ONLY 
$3.88 
EACH 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
House race in a busy fall of campaigning. Both parties agree the Democrats will retain their majority in the new 435-member House that is elected next Tuesday, possibly gaining 10 or more seats in the process. 
There are 36 statehouse races on the ballot, as well, with Republicans expected to pick up at least a half-dozen seats. 
The main battleground in this year's mid-term elections is the struggle for control of the Senate, where Republicans currently hold a 53-47 edge but must defend 22 of the 34 seats at stake. 
At the Abdnor rally in economically hardhit South Dakota, the president renewed his prediction that a second economic boom is at hand, and urged voters to re-elect the "clean-up crew" of conserva­tive Republicans they sent to the Senate in 1980. 
Democrats took a pounding from another source as con­sumer advocate Ralph Nader called a news conference in Washington to accuse the party 
of a "very serious strategic campaign error" by not forum­lating a national reply to Reagan. 
But there was encouraging news for Democratic Senate challengers in Georgia and Al­abama, two states where Reagan campaigned on Tues­day, as well as Idaho, where he is headed later in the week. 
In Georgia, a poll conducted for a television station and released Tuesday night gave GOP Sen. Mack Mattingly a 47 percent to 44 percent lead over Democratic Rep. Wyche Fowler. The results of the sur­vey of 300 voters were closer than an eight-point gap that an­other poll reported earlier in the week. 
In Idaho, where GOP Sen. Steve Symms has been locked in a tight race with Gov. John Evans, the governor won the endorsement of the state's largest newspaper, The Idaho Statesman. A poll taken for the paper and a Boise television station reported Evans with a slender lead of 47.4 percent to 
45.2 percent. 
In Alabama's close Senate race, incumbent GOP Sen. Jeremiah Denton drew 50 per­cent support in a new public poll, compared with 43.4 per­cent for his Democratic op­ponent, Rep. Richard Shelby. That poll had a mart'in of errior of 5 percent, and mdicated a smaller lead for Denton than earlier surveys turned up. 
Alabama's gubernatorial race seemed ready to take an­other weird twist, with Skip Tucker, an aide to Graddick, saying there was a "50-50 chance" the attorney general will drop his write-in bid. Grad­dick won a Democratic runoff in June, but the party certified Lt. Gov. BillBaxleythewinner, saying that Graddick had im­properly appealed to Republi­can crossover votes. A federal court agreed. 
The two main party candi­dates in the race, Baxley and Republican Guy Hunt, already were courting Graddick sup­
porters. 
~­

The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 6 
OPEC head fired in surprise move; Planning Minister to replace him 
Associated Press 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia ­Sheik Ahmed Zaki Yamani, Saudi Arabia's long-standing petroleum minister and leader of OPEC, has been fired, the official Saudi Press Agency re­ported in a terse announcement today. 
No reason was given for replacing the 56-year-old Yamani, perhaps the most well-known figure within the Organization of Petroleum Ex­porting Countries. 
There have been rumors that Yamani was on the outs with the royal family, and King Fahd appeared to undercut him at a critical juncture of the Oct. 6-22 OPEC meeting. But there was no evidence that he was in danger of losing his job. 
The surprise announcement 
issued before dawn in Riyadh 
said Planning Minister Hisham 
N azer had replaced Yamani. 
N azer is considered one of the 
key ministers in this kingdom 
of 11 million. 
The announcement comes 
between two key OPEC 
meetings, one that agreed to 
continue interim production task of lining up a new production-sharing agree­ment, or distribution of produ­tion quotas among members. 
Saudi Arabia is the world's largest oil-exporter and the leading OPEC member. In recent statements Saudi Arabia has made it clear that it will demand an increase in its own production quota of 4.35 million barrels a day. 
The announcement of Yamani's firing came amid reports within the oil industry that Saudi Arabia was offering a 50 cent-per-barrel discount on its oil prices. The Saudi govern­ment denied this Monday. 
Yamani, his country's oil minister since 1962, is the ar­chitect of the Saudi oil policy and the figurehead in OPEC's rise to prominence worldwide. He was appointed oil minister by King Saud, the present monarch's half-brother. 
Yamani, a lawyer by trade, is considered the architect of the 1973 Arab oil embar~o that triggered the first maJor oil price rise and reshaped the world economy. 
He remained the key OPEC powerbroker, the top man in said Saudi Arabia would con­tinue insisting that OPEC work out a permanent system for dis­tributing oil-production quotas and that the Saudis be given a bigger share of the total. 

But the next day the Saudi government announced that it had dropped its demand for an OPEC agreement on per­manent production quotas and said it was now willing to go along with another interim ar­rangement. The timing of these two statements gave the im­pression Yamani was being overruled at a key juncture in the OPEC negotiations. 
Yamani was one of 12 OPEC oil ministers seized in 1975 as hostages by pro-Palestinian 
terrorists during a conference at OPEC headquarters in Vien­na, Austria. Since then he has always traveled with personal bodyguards. 
AMERICAN 
CANCER
~• SOCIE1Y~ 


.. ­
I I • .I 

The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 7 
Instead, she ended up in the university laboratory, where
Anti-nuclear activist and comedian 
she "learned about being a wo­man." Explaining this, she said that scientists talk about
entertains audience at Saint Mary's 
radioactive atoms as "mother 
and board from your state and a crash course on radiation,By PEGGY PROSSER 
federal government." from her "world of illusion A graduate of Stanford Uni­lab." She demonstrated the
Reading an imaginary To this, she replied, "Well,
versity. George has trained concept of atomic weight and
pamphlet on the Great Peace that sounds more like men to 
March, urging those in the au­with Chicago's famed Second the half-life process using a me." dience to "See the USA -on City cabaret. She considers life-size element chart. As the chauvanistic Mr. P.R. 
foot," Barbara George opened herself a "born again active, " From the viewpoint of a wan­Gamble, George described her her monologue titled which came as a result of the dering Uranium atom, George appointment as Under­"Everything I Ever Wanted To anti-nuclear power campaigns presented a geological history secretary of Waste for the 
Ask About Nukes and Was in the 1970's. In 1983, she toured of herself and her "radioactive Reagan administration. She Afraid to Know" Wednesday the country with a full size family." She went on to took the audience to a conven­night at Saint Mary's. model of a Cruise missile on describe the summer that tion in Chicago, where Gamble 
Sponsored by the Saint top of her truck. somebody tried to enrich her, was speaking. At this conven­Mary's Student Government George donned a lab by taking her to a university tion, Gamble said this decade 
and the College Peacemakers, suit,complete with hood and laboratory. Thinking she would would be known as "the era of George encouraged the audi­gloves to transform herself into spend a million years in a mi­the plastic heart." The audi­ence to "help stop the Trident Mr. E. Glow. She then crofilm library, she willingly ence responded with boos and 
Missile Test, and get free room proceeded to give the audience agreed to go. hisses. 

Philippine 
minister says • he was not an appointee 
Associated Press 
MANILA, philippines Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enrile, whose criticism of gov­ernment policies has prompted calls for his resignation, said Wednesday that he was no mere appointee and that he and the military handed power to President Corazon Aquino. 
Mrs. Aquino's vice president and foreign minister, Salvador Laurel, meanwhile, suggested voters be allowed to decide whether presidential elections should be held next year, as urged by Enrile. 
"I thought it would be more fair not only to the people, but also to Mrs. Aquino and myself to know what the people feel about our tenure," Laurel told a news conference. 
Enrile, who also was defense minister under President Fer­dinand Marcos but helped lead his ouster, has insisted Mrs. Aquino call elections to legitimize her government. 
But a recently drafted consti­tution that is to be submitted to a referendum next year would keep Mrs. Aquino and Laurel in office until 1992. 
Mrs. Aquino maintains she won an electoral mandate in the fraud-tainted Feb. 7 ballot­ing in which government offi­cials declared Marcos the vic­tor. Marcos fled to Hawaii two weeks later in the face of a mil­itary and civilian revolt. 
Enrile told a nurses conven­tion Wednesday, "In the final stages of the revolution, we (the military) had complete control almost of the levers of power in the land." 
He said, "We decided not to accept that power and wield it, but instead we handed it to a civilian government headed by Mrs. Aquino.... And so, there­fore, no one can tell us that they ,1 handed to us an appointment of 1 a position because we were ~ holding those positions before 1
,
any one of them had their pos­
itions." 
1 1 
Enrile told the nurses he ~ would resign if Mrs. Aquino 
1
demanded but would first have to consult the military -"the people I represent in the gov­~ ernment." 
~ 
In recent weeks, Enrile in­creasingly has criticized Mrs. Aquino's policies, especially that of seeking a negotiated peace with communist rebels. 
Presidential spokesman Teodoro Benigno told reporters Wednesday that Mrs. Aquino believes her position as na­tional leader reflects "the con­tinuing support of the people." 
ST. JUDE 

Hair St."'*· .............. 
ill ,._ ... lidt ill ......... 
~n-ol.a.-Chrilt. ........ 
....,w_fii .. W..-...,.. 
..-....... 1ft ...fll ...... .... 
,_,._.,__,.......~., 
, ._........,~ .. ..... 
GGd ... .-tuch ......... ­
...........................,
,...............,....._"'......,
..................,.............
... CIM.e,_--~.., 
..... Ow ............. Hail .,.. 
.... oe.n-. ........."'.... 
.,._ Pullllc I •..., a. pur' ad
............................. 
,.. .... ~ ltlit ...... ..
-----....._.............
_ 


.~i~~~_<>__i__ll__t____________________
T_hu-rsd-ay_,o_cto-ber-30_,1_986_,-_pag--es 

Business background is found in many majors 
So you are considering a business major. Well, forget it. Do your future a favor and major in something else. 
All of the company presidents that I have questioned regarding majors have sa1d the same thing: a liberal edu­cation is the most important asset that an employee can have. 
Brian Murray guest column 
One can always get training in a cho­sen field from an employer. Acccount­ing and finance firms have training pro­grams that will teach a non-business major three years of accounting or finance in only one year. You could earn an MBA. Or you could learn by doing, which, regardless of your college edu­cation, you would have to do anyway. 
Whichever way you choose to enter business, starting with an unrelated major will double your worth. Your co­workers will have one degree. You will 
P.O.BoxQ 
Lawyer proposes use of pre-trial diversion 
Dear Editor: 
While I was in traffic and mis­demeanor court this morning representing clients of my own, I had the unpleasant occasion to witness a Notre Dame student being fed to the wolves by long distance. 
The student had been charged with public intoxication and had been sub­Jected to some terrible legal advice and was about to make a serious mistake. Apparently, some law students have been advising Domers how to "deal with" these misdemeanor citations. I know that the "legal advice" is surely well-intentioned, but it is also most as­suredly ill-advised. 
We live in a time when alcohol related hi-jinks are not well tolerated. Whether 
they are collegiate or "townie" in na­
r 
ture, they can involve a great deal of
r 
r lost time, expense and most impor­tantly a lasting criminal record. The young man in question had ap­parently been advised to fight the sys­tem, to reject offers of pre-trial diver­sion. I will leave to the legal philosophers the question of whether you can or should f1ght the system. Let them decide how many intoxicated minors can dance on the head of a pin. 
For the rest of us, however, let's get realistic. First, this isn't New York City. A lot could be done to improve the quality of the social life at our local colleges. Second, pre-trial diversion is a gift. If you want to take advantage of the system, take advantage of this gift. 
Pre-trial diversion is based upon a wise old American concept that "every dog deserves one bite." If you don't 
Doonesbury 
have two. (And since I have never heard of a business major going back to school to get a Liberal Arts degree, chances are that your advantage will be permanent.) 
The first senior that I met my fresh­man year at Notre Dame was a Philos­ophy major. Upon graduation, he ac­cepted a job with Solomon Brothers, a large and prestigious financial firm in New York City. He now trades stocks. 
So you are probably saying, "Brian, what should I do?" 
Most of you are Science, Engineer­ing, and Arts and Letters majors. These are all perfect pre-Business majors. Learn your field. Get work experience. Then go to law school, get an MBA, or do both. 
Ifyou want to take business courses, take only the essential ones. Accounting courses are always important. Intro­ductory Finance, Marketing, and Man­agement courses will give you a great . overview of those fields and assist you in decisions about your business career. 
Most importantly, make sure you load your undergraduate courses with plenty of writing and general classes that you will not take in graduate school. Philosophy, psychology, history and literature courses are important to make you a well-rounded individual. These courses teach thinking and com­munication skills that you will need no matter what your job. 
Also, a great part of your business education can begin now with appropri­ate reading outside of class. Forbes, Business Week, The Wall Street Jour­nal, and other business publications of­fer the generalist valuable information. Many books, such as "In Search of Ex­cellence", do not have to be read in class to benefit the reader. This reading is a critical element for a successful business career. 
The next question that you probably have is "Brian, you hypocrite, why are you an Accounting major?" Good ques­tion. However, I am planning a career in Finance, marketing, or general man­agement. Accounting gives me an ana­
have a criminal record· and you get in­volved in a criminal matter, you can be placed on this program. Stay out of trouble for a year, and your one-time criminal dalliance will be wiped off you record. It's a freebie. Take advantage of it. 
Yes, it costs you a nominal service fee. It costs you some time. But even­tually, you walk away from your dal­liance without a scar. 
There was a time in our society when a drunk driving conviction or a public intoxication conviction or a drunk and disorderly record was simply a battle scar from a "normal" youth. That time is past. It may return, but not during your minority. 
Now, we live in an era when this kind 
of "minor" criminal record will effect 
your ability to get into graduate school, 
certainly medical school, probably 
business school, and possibly even law 
school. Pre-trial diversion can wipe out 
that record, and I would strongly en­
courage anyone caught in this situation 
to take advantage of it. 

Oh, yes. One final word of free advice. 
Even if you own one, don't bother dress­
ing up in a suit and tie to appear in 
court. Dress like you would for Mass 
before going to a football game. You're 
a student. Dress like a student, not like 
an investment banker out to screw the 
the system. That judge sitting there has 
seen a thousand others just like you, 
and a suit is not going to convince him 
that your .24 blood alcohol level was an 
innocent mistake. 

You broke the law. Know your rights. 
Protect yourself in the clinches but 
stand up and take it like a person. 
Lawrence J Clifford Stutsman,Stevens,Leone & Clifford 
OKAY, IAE OPEN WITH A KINP 
THEN THe VO!C£·0VCR 5AY5, 

OF ~FJOOI<,UNt:J8?SC.()RJN6 
"t;HE; 7WI< HER FIR71"ANO LA'JT YOUR 'i!R416HT·LAC/31), VICTOOAN 
P!U.UPON HfARJN6A801JTTH/3

UP8/l.JIJGtJJG, ere... ··· 
OUT~!< OF «<IRW /.UARII. 
THAT PILL-Wtl5 AN 

Jacket wearer explains the origin of saying 
Dear Editor: 
Last Monday (before break) I returned from lunch to discover the phrase printed on the back of my jacket had attained notoriety, thanks to a dis­gusted and angry Dolores Warwick Frese. I am referring specifically to the phrase "Liquor in the Front and Poker in the Rear,'' an advertisement for Casey's Bar (a tavern with legalized gambling in the back room and a bar out front) in Whitefish, Montana, a small, rustic town in the Rocky Moun­tains just south of the Canadian border. I could go on with my jacket saga, but how I acquired the jacket is irrelevant to what I want to discuss--Frese's ir­responsible "embellishments" upon her story to make it more palatable, and certain notions of propriety which she holds to be self-evident in her own little world. 
Frese began her letter by describing a "local vignette," one in which she takes the liberty to fabricate a descrip­tion of how I felt as I purposely flashed my jacket at passers-by: "This person felt not only free, but proud and clever, to communicate such a crudely ... " Al­low me to state explicity that Frese and I have never spoken to each other before, and that she could have no pos­sible insight into what I was thinking. It is not as if she didn't have the chance to talk to me. From the context of her letter, she must have followed me for at least two minutes. Solely from my appearance, she described exactly what I must have been feeling. (And what does the fact that I am balding have to do Wlth anything)? If I were to 
Garry Trudeau 
lytical base to understanding business. From here I can concentrate on a spe­cific area in business, any specific area that I choose. 
If I were to go into Accounting, I would major in English. If I were con­sidering investment bankin~ as a career, I would major in Engmeering for the math background. If I wanted to manage people, I would be a Psy­chology maJor. 
These pre-career majors adequately prepare the individual for any business field and are interchangeable. A good case could be made for any major, no matter how unrelated. But whatever career is chosen, a broad background will advance one's potential. 
With a little creativity in choosing majors, you will be able to expand your education and set yourself above your peers. Of course, get a degree in your chosen field. Just get an education first. 
Brian Murray is an junior Accounting major at Notre Dame 
take the same liberties in describing Frese from her letter, I might conclude that she is a militant feminist; one can plainly see the dangers of making such rash judgements concerning others. Frese must have been too busy paging through her thesaurus to notice them. 
For the rest of her letter, J:t'rese ac­cepts my legal right to wear my jacket, but suggests that everyone should ex­press their opinion on the subject, so that a consensus on this issue could be formed, thereby establishing a level of propriety for this community. I must warn of the dangers of imposing proper "guidelines" to govern where laws do not. A simple example will suffice: 75 years ago, black men had the legal right to attend this university, but I doubt any went to school here because at the time, it was just not "proper" to accept them. Because what is "proper" is not necessarily right, I willfully choose to ignore propriety. Instead, I follow what I think is right and wrong (some consider this a novel concept>. If anyone wants to know why I wear my jacket, just ask. 
I admire Frese's ability to stand up and express her opinion, but I refuse to throw my jacket away just to satisfy her own notion of an ideal world. Every­one, including Frese, should deal first and foremost with their own shortcom­ings and problems. When she can prove that she is perfect, then she can start blasting other people's choice of cloth­ing. Doesn't that notion sound vaguely familiar? 
Robert H. ELlsworth Graduate Student 
Write us 
Quote of the day 
"I would rather sit on a pumpkin, and have it all to myself, then to be crowded on a velvet cushion." 
Henry David Thoreau 

VieWP-Oint Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 9 
Star Wars is a vital aspect of defense package 
It's amazing how contemptuously some people view P~~si~ent Reaga~'s Strategic Defense Imtlatlve, otherwise known as Star Wars. Understand, by this I am not lumping the majority of people into a generalization, for a sur­vey as recent as Monday, Oct. 13 shows that the majority on this campus are at least open-minded with regard to SDI. Still many professors I have talked with won't even give the program the benefit of the doubt. 
Chris Julka 
in plain english 
Some people's ideological prejudices make them reject Star Wars out of hand. At best, others seem to view it as nothing more than a convenient means to attack an ideological enemy, like the President. What's even more amazing, however, is that many as­sume automatically that to support SDI is to comport with militarism. The rea­son why I say the latter is especially amazing is that when one takes the time to consider the program on its own merits, apart from the circus known as American politics, quite the opposite case can be made. Short of a policy of unconditional surrender, meaningful nuclear disarmament is impossible without Star Wars. 
Numerous marches and demonstra­tions come from today's nuclear weap­ons protestors, but as soon as the skull masks and the New Wave costumes are doffed, and the partying is over, noth­ing in terms of significant political ac­tion ever happens. 
Similarly, despite the popularity of denouncing whomever happens to be in office, it is unrealistic to point the finger at the conveniently visible politicians because the situation has only consis­tently worsened, regardless of whether a Republican or a Democrat was Pres­ident. 
Rather, if we are to deal with the problem of nuclear disarmament in a realistic manner, we must recognize that the balance of terror has continued unabated, regardless of public concern or the efforts of any politician. For what we have lacked for the past forty years is a definite means of enforcing a stra­tegic disarmament treaty. 
True, for about the past twenty-five years we have had an effective means of verifying strategic agreements with infrared detection and high resolution photography based in satellites. This has only served to make the era of detente and superficial limitations treaties practical, however, not treaties of significant reduction or elim­ination. 
The reason for this is simple: in con­trast to a mere limitations treaty, which can be enforced by two still fully capable arsenals, a significant reduc­tion treaty would have had no way of keeping the other side honest. If, for example, one side were to violate an extremely superficial limitations treaty, like SALT (which some argue has in fact happened), the advantage which this side would accrue by doing so would be relatively trivial because it would still have to reckon with an enemy arsenal which has only been su­perficially limited, not significantly reduced. If, however, one side has suc­cessfully cheated on a significant re­duction or total disarmament treaty and the other side has not, the side which has not cheated had better either get the first available copy of Das Kapi­tal or start watching Bonzo movies, for 

its rival now has only a significantly reduced arsenal -or no arsenal at all -with which to contend. Thus a disarma­ment treaty has always been impracti­cal because if it were violated, the status quo could not be enforced. If a comparatively conservative and super­
ficial limitations treaty were violated, on the other hand, the status quo could be enforced precisely because such a treaty is so conservative and superfi­cial. 
It is precisely here, however, where Star Wars should become the disarma­ment activist's dream, for an anti­ballistic missile system could be precisely such a means of enforcement. Above all, in· contrast to the means of enforcement in a mere limitations treaty, this particular one would not depend on nuclear weapons of mass destruction. 
All of this sounds nice and may be so, you may be saying, but is Star Wars -which is the name of a science fiction film after all -really feasible? 
This is not the place for a technical argument. Even with the appearance in the popular media of such exotic technologies as rail guns, particle beams, and X-ray lasers, the crucial questions must remain beyond the realm of speculation because of the very secretiveness of the research being conducted. Still,. if Star Wars were a complete waste of money, Gor­bachev should have had nothing to worry about at Reykjavik. If anything, one would expect Gorbachev to support Star Wars more enthusiastically than Reagan, for by doing so he could have only made his capitalist rival that much more needlessly poor. 
As it stands, however, Gorbachev is very much opposed to SDI and has in­sisted quite emphatically that its elim­ination or restriction be a condition for any reductions treaty. Furthermore, the Soviet Union has its own ambitious anti-ballistic missile program, with an arsenal of olash missiles poised to defend Moscow, an operational particle beam in Sary Sagan, a number of killer satellites, and what some have called a ten-year lead in particle beam tech­nology. 
Which does not prove that Star Wars or the Soviet program is feasible. But the emphasis with which Gorbachev denounces it is suggestive. Moreover, although SDI seems far out and im­plausible, anti-ballistic missile systems have worked in the past. On Aug. 28, 1944, for example, the British destroyed 97 of 101 German ''buzz bombs" which approached England -a success ratio of 96 percent. Antimissile destroyers have also become important compo­nents of the American and British navies. 
Of course all antimissile technology needs work yet, and Star Wars is still nothing more than a research program. Furthermore, even a kill ratio of 96 per­cent would not be of considerable ad­vantage when one considers an attack force of ten thousand nuclear missiles. 
It is when one considers Star Wars 
as a means of enforcing a disarmament 
treaty, however, just as reconnais­
sance satellites can currently enforce 
a limitations treaty, that these absur­
dities cease. As such, both the oppo­
nents, as well as proponents of SDI, 
generally start with a completely 
inapplicable conception of the pro­
gram. That is, they both generally con­
ceive of Star Wars as something totally 
divorced from nuclear disarmament, 
when in actuality no two programs are 
more ideally matched for marriage ­in fact, need to be married -than Star of enforcement were remote, it would Wars and a treaty of meaningful nu­seem that Gorbachev, by attempting to 
clear disarmament. They are practi­quash the development of anti-missile cally inseparable. For just as Star Wars technology, is pursuing a summit strat­could create a situation in which a dis­egy precisely opposed to a goal of ul­armament treaty is practical by pro­timate nuclear disarmament, if that isviding a formerly unavailable means what he truly desires. Even if the com­of enforcement, so a disarmament bination of a bilaterally negotiated Star treaty makes an anti-ballistic missile Wars and a bilaterally negotiated nu­system conceivable by permitting only clear disarmament treaty were totally a handful of missiles against which one unfeasible, Star Wars could only be an Imust defend. It is when they are con­irrelevant issue, not something which 1sidered separately that both Star Wars must be prevented at all costs. Thus 
, 1

and nuclear disarmament become ab­instead of insisting upon the exclusion ,
surd. When they are both considered as 
of Star Wars from U.S. policy as a nec­two indispensible parts of the same essary condition for a nuclear disarma­,
..

package, however, both with comple­ment treaty, Gorbachev should insist mentary problems and advantages, the precisely upon its inclusion into the absurdities in both disappear. Thus it policies of the superpowers, even if atis as simply an extension of current a bilateral level. This need not onlyspace-borne means of verification into benefit the West, but could be in his 
space-borne means of enforcement that interest as well. Star Wars should be considered, not as some mysterious "fourth leg" of the Chris Julka is a junior American strategic triad. Studies major and a regular Viewpoint 
Even if the feasibility of such a means columnist. 
P.O.BoxQ 

Dedication of fountain ently means looking beyond borders, 
loving our enemies, and rejecting the

found very militaristic sword -all of which Jesus did. 
We also objected to the militaristic 

Dear Editor: 
nature of the dedication. The songs,I am writing to re-state the presence planned fly -over, large presence of mil­of Pax Christi and of Women United for itary members do not go along with the Justice and Peace at the dedication of Eucharist -the memorial of Jesus Christ 

the new memorial last October 17. 
who died, rather than took up the There seems to have been some confu­

sword. 

sion about our presence there exhibited 
Joseph Ross, C.S.C.

in a letter to this column on October 28. 
Moreau Seminary

First of all, we do not object to praying for those who have died in war. That is a very good thing to do. We do, 
Senior group receives

however, believe that prayer must be balanced in a Christian way by also compliments after trip
praying for our enemies and commit­tin~ ourselves to work for peace and to Dear Editor: res1st war. We did object to two ele­As two of the chaperones for the ments in the dedication. The wording Senior Trip, we would like to commend on the memorial "Pro Patria et Pace" the Class! This not only was the largest -"For Fatherland and Peace". Coming group ever to take part in a Senior Trip, 
from our Catholic tradition and trying but it must have been one of the most to root our peacemaking in the words mature . We received many compli­of Jesus, we do not see how "father­ments from the staff and patrons of the 
land" is an appropriate object of hotel. dedication for people who seek to be We were pleased to travel with this people of peace. It is precisely this mis­group and proud of the way they
taken notion of "fatherland" represented the University of Notre 
"nationalism"-which is often the cause Dame. of war. As Christians, we do not see 
Adele Lanan 

how we can be given to both peace and 
Ceil Paulsen

nationalism. Working for peace inher-
Student Activities Office 
, 
1 
1 


General Board
Ihe Observer 

Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 

Viewpoint Editor . ............... Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager .......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either Institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor ............ Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Welmholt the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ........... : .... Mark Pankowski OC/11 \fanager. ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November 3, 1988 

r 
r-· 
r 
r 
,. 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r 
r r
, 
,. 
r 
'" 
r 
r 
r 
t 
The Observer 

The New York Deli & Cafe 


F~...... IOOCnter.Uioblwoto Moa·fri 7-1-.......,,,New ¥1111t St!fle tlllll, ·-·• Set,.dq I · 9:30 
Porty Trqo Avlilobl6 ........., ,....., -··........, 111ernes, INitt...a Suadq 9 -l ll6-071 o ,......•., ......tlcoue-,_,... ~elketies,NI----------­'hrt ..................... ........,., -.,......u 
.... f-.111 llell -··-IM--1. Now )'art !leU & Cafe" lliiCOUDI Coupon.. 
11'illl uw tDUpan. buy uy lllld plole ud teto Mallld

Join us tor brellktast, l!ah, and dimer.. 
lllale r..-112 pric:e. llrilll 1 fritDdl 
..... __'""""'"'uu,odoor~oalolror 
--_,...--..-t,.. 
..

r--------------­
RIBS & BLUES

1 I  
I  Michiono's home ot the Blues  I  
I  Featuring LIVE Blues Wed., Fri., Sat.  I  
I I  ,  "Generous and open hearted whether its ribs & blues or rhythm and blues you'll find good things  I I  
I I  going on." Gail Carson South Bend Tribune MENU HIGHLIGHTS  I I  
I  Lg RIB TIP DINNER ••••••••• 6.30  I  
I  Mini RIB TIP DINNER ••••••••4.45  I  
I  Lg RIB DINNER .•••••••••••.•7.35  I  
I  Small RIB DINNER •••••••••• 5.25  I  
I  SLAB DINNER ••••• , •••••• 14.25  I  
I I  Bring In this coupon for $1 off  I I  
I  237·9132  I  
IL  3201 Western Ave., South Bend  .II  


Great re 
to stop In at 
Unique San 

LOCATED AT 1705 SOUTH BEND AV. MON.-FRI.ll-11, SAT.4:30-11, SUN.4:30-9:30 
APPETIZERS SOUPS N SALADS SANDWICHES N SUBS 
PASTA SPECIALS PIZZA BEER, WINE N COCKTAILS 
LUNCH  SPECIALS FROM  $2.95  
DINNER  SPECIALS  FROM  $5.95  
MENU  

Reetaurant And Cocktail Lounge Authentic Szechu.n •nd HunM Tate 
Mon.-Fri. Lunches startin& at•• _____'2.95 
Cel•brate football weekends at the Great Wall 

Dinnen startin1 at•• _____ •'4.25 
._.-7 days a weelc ....'lllltn.: 11:30 L•.·ll ,_.. Fri.-$&: 11:30 L&-11 ,... 
.... & .....,. 11:• L&·ll ,_.. 
Next to Ranaall.s Inn 272·7o376 South Bend, 130 Dixie Hwy.(Roseland) 

•Italian 
sausage 

•Italian 
meatball 

• 
Beef and company 


•and many 

Soups, Salads, ApJ 
Beerand1 Casua1Atm4 
Mon-Thurs Fri-Sat Sunday 
--·----------~-~-­
·~------­
Thursday, October 30, 1986 _page 10_11 


sons 
acrl's Dell 
chMenu: 
•Gyros 
• 
Croissants 

•Old 
Chicago 



Center 
ruelpeclat. All you coo eat Sirlon Dnner fon<1Je Slyle 

w.d Special: All you CCI1 eat Seafood Dnner Fonc:k.e Slyle 
lllr Special: All you CCI1 eat010CI<en Orner Fonc:k.e Style 
Trv OJ Chers leolured entrees Frdav and Solurdoy even1ngs 
,.., & r.trs·/ A111eriG8 
BARKLAY'S IS BACK &BETTER THAN EVER! 
TheSelectionisIncredible! 
Still serving the famous BBQ Mon. thru Thurs. Ribs and Prime Rib with an ex-11:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m. tensive new menu offering Friday 11:30 a.m.-11:00 p.m. F~esh Seafood and other Spe-Sat. 4:00 p.m.-11:00 p.m. C1alt1es .. -Sun. 3:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 
t.~!~~af's 
" 272-5478 US 31/33 North Ju~t N. of Cleveland Rd. 
Dally_.NIPtiP Speciale wlda fne •lllldllee 

Moadav dana Friday 4:M-7:Mp• 


Phone277~ 
6402 Grape Road Acroa from University Park Mal on Gkape Road 
tlobaour 

•ArouiiCI dae Worlci_,.IIOBeere" 
._~---------------C~·----~ 
-------..
I I I 

PITCHEROF SOFT DRINK & ORDER OF BREADSTICKS 
(With Spicy Cheere Dip) 
I I I I I I I 
With purchase of I any Large Monster, I or Large Sicilian 
I 
or any 16" or 20" round pizza. Mini­I mum of 2 toppings. 
I 
Not good with any other 
I 
dircotmt or promotion ofler. 
• 
RESTAURANT & LOUNGE 1033l.AKE STREET 
NILES, MICHIGAN 
616/683-7474 

a Notre Dame, SaintMary's Tradition for over 30 years. 

-
-"' 





Kottke's strummln' his stuff 
---~­
Accent 
Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 12 

BRIAN PETERS virtuoso. He plays his twelve­He continues to produce more features writer string acoustic better than most. sound from an acoustic guitar The music is all his own. than humanly possible. But he Leo who? Kottke ... a rather has dropped the occasional unusual name to try to Ah, the music. It's hard to clas­snare line from his sound and pronounce. Let's make It easy. sify because he plays it all. A neo­replaced It with a light touch of Just say "cocky." It's close folk guitarist that has country In synthesizers and cello. He uses enough. his blood (typical of those Min­them sparingly but effectively. nesota hicks) Is a good place to The final product Is subtle; so start. He plays to satisfy his soul. subtle that you might miss it. whether It be classical or Don't worry, you wouldn't be the Records bluegrass or whatever seems ap­first. Try listening to tills album propriate at that moment. His again with headphones on and 
~\ \\ Leo Kottke only requirement Is that his new see If you notice any Improve­
songs bring him closer to his ment.
A Shout Toward Noon 

goal of being the best guitarist he can possibly be. The thing that baffles me Is how he comes up with the names Now that we've gotten that for the songs. Each song has a taken care of, let's talk about The new album, his first in weird name but there isn't a word Kottke and his new album. years, successfully brings him uttered on the album. Hmmm? closer to this goal. Basically, the Musical prowess I ~uess. new songs are his best. varying This Leo cat Is a guitarist. from country-folk-swing ofold to If you like mello acoustic
"That's all?" you say. No, he's a slower meditative melodies. 
sounds that take you places by 
great guitarist. One of a kind. A Each song hums along with sug­
just closing your eyes, give this
real virtuoso If you like. Like any gestions of Windham Hill creep­
album a listen. If you're boring. 
of you know the difference be­ing In here and there but a sound buy the new Boston album.
tween a virtuoso and a non-that's all Kottke. 


matthew s w e e t 

Too sweet to swallow 
Mann from 'Til Tuesday on back­for this LP to have any real dis­features editor Ing vocals. Other producers ap­tinction. pearing on the album have Lyrically, Inside breaks no new It's a mystery to me why Mat­worked with such groups as ground. Most of the songs con­thew Sweet would bring together 
MARY JACOBY 
Katrina and the Waves, the cern relationships between men 
so many talented musicians, Bangles, OMD, Pet Shop Boys, and women, lost or frustrated 
vocalists and producers to The Cure and Dream Academy. love • stuff along those lines. A 
produce as average an album as The result of this diversity Is a great album combines thought­
Inside. surprisingly homogeneous ful lyrics with innovative or In­sound of soothing synthesizers, spiring music. Inside is strong in conventional arrangements and neither department. making it
Records 

slick production. Sweet's rather more fluff than anything sub­high-pitched voice is not empha­stantial.
Matthew Sweet 
sized enough when It sounds 
Inside best • In a midrange, Squeeze­It's a shame that Sweet's like tone -and It stretches too smooth, clear voice Is not fea­
A quick glance at the credits thin in some tracks such as the tured more prominently on the for each song should leave you upbeat "Quiet Her." album. The music's lack of gasping. Anton Fler of the originality could have been com­
Golden Palominos plays drums Musically, Inside varies little pensated partially by bringing 
on several tracks; Don Dixon, from conventional pop formulas. the vocals more to the forefront who co-produced R.E.M.'s first No one song really rocks out and but when the lyrics are as two albums and EP along with neither is there a notable slow unthought-provoking as Sweet's 
n s d e Mitch Easter, produced "This number or ballad. Every track perhaps it's not so wise to em­Above All," which features Aimee sounds too much like the other phasize them. 
-
! 

'Tops spinning circles 
TOM TIERNEY folk groups of the '60's and capi­together all of the elements at features writer talize on the popularity of such work on this album. It is basically American bands as R.E.M. and a fast country-and-western tune in the past couple of years, a Marshall Crenshaw. that also has some Caribbean new British invasion has bridged flavor running underneath and the Atlantic over to America. The ' The Woodentops, however, could easily find a home at a Woodentops are the latest im­use acoustic guitar and percus­square dance. This blend of port of this wave, which includes sion to forge a style that is styles forms the base for lyrics such bands as Aztec Camera, delightfully different on this, that celebrate everyday life in the The Dream Academy, Lloyd Cole, their debut album, entitled face of the frustration and bitter­Prefab Sprout and The Smiths. Giant. ness of the working class expe­rience. The only way to overcome 

Even on first listening. this al­
the apathy of those in power,
bum displays an almost hippie­
Records 
McGinty says, is to achieve a love
like outpouring of human 
affair with everyday life and then,
warmth, like a breath of fresh air
The Woodentops 

frustration and bitterness will
on a cold, cloudy October day.Giant In addition, Rolo McGinty's voice soon disappear. is nearly friendly as it bops its 
This is not exactly deep stuff, These bands all have a sound way through the twelve tunes on 
but then again neither are the dominated by the standard Giant. The melodies on these 
lyrics on the album's first single, electric guitar-bass-drums for­songs are dominated by ascend­"Shout," a foot stomping rock­mula that rock 'n' roll has fol­ing strains of the electric guitar abilly number that forces move­
lowed for years, but do so in a and are further enhanced by ment in the listener: Its great distinctly non-phallic way. Theirs melodic bass riffs and vocal har­melody is marred however, bymonies. Unfortunately, however, 
is a fresh departure from the su­ambiguous lyrics; it is not clear pergroups ofthe '70's, who seem these melodies blend together what he is shouting about. if to be enjoying renewed and though every song is good, anything. popularity in the reminiscing no one of song distinguishes It­
'80's. The Brits, however, are not self. In a sense, it is at this point startlingly original becauSP th~v The song "Love Affair with where Giant is flawed. The lse, but have little substance. There are plenty of hooks, but little resolution or complete ideas and while there is some­thing here to shout about, it is unclear exactly what that some­thing is. In short, this album has has some quite good ones. But it somehow falls short and leaves the listener unfulfilled. This band, though, shows great po­tential and Giant is actually quite good for a debut album. I expect to hear even better things in the 
use as their major influence the Everyday Living" seems to bring melodies here show great prom-no really bad songs and in fact future of The Woodentoos. 
Accent 
Thursday, October 30, 1986, -page 13 

e>~s Independent label finds 

etc. This song however, outdoes any of those. In fact, "Femme Fatale" may be one of their best songs ever which just goes to 

/'~  show that good things come in  
_....,  strange packages. (A little piece  
of  red  plastic  shoved  in  an  
obscure music magazine in this  

KRIS MURPHY features writer 
Willing to work a little? Willing to spend a few bucks? These singles are hard to find but they're all worth the trouble. All have been released within the last year and all are available by special order from Tracks right here in South Bend. 
R.E.M--"Femme Fatale" (Give­away tlexi-disc from The Bob music fanzine.) R.E.M has a way with slow songs. "Perfect Circle," "Camera" and "Pale Blue Eyes" are all lilting, ethereal, majestic case.) All the best parts of R. E. M 
shine through in this Lou Reed 
cover. Peter Buck strums in what 
could only be described as a 
tender manner (nojoke), picking 
his way slowly around Stipe's for­
lornly resigned vocals about a 
girl who's going to "play you for 
a fool" as she "builds you up, 
just to put you down." "She'sjust a little tease" he murmurs, sounding as if he's going to cry all the way to her house. This one of those rare records where a group transcends its image and its past to create something truly memorable. 

Ciccone Youth (a.k.a. Sonic Youth)--"lnto the Groovy!Burnin' Up" (New Alliance Records) Cic­cone Youth is Sonic Youth in dis­guise. If you like songs about murder and ghosts and if you like people who play their guitars with screwdrivers you'll like 
Sonic Youth. If you don't like those things forget it. This single is however, a good introduction to the band. You already know the song right? Wrong. It starts off with a drum machine at high speed and breaks into harsh monotone vocals that make Madonna's bouncy tune into more ofa threat than a come-on. An occasional blast of guitar noise breaks through the mix sounding like a dentist's drill stuck on a raw nerve. Madonna's voice actually surfaces four of five times before being sucked back in by the ever-present drum 
machine. You can even dance to it sort of. Guaranteed to scare you away from your Madonna records forever. 
The Miracle Legion--''The Backyard1Jntil She Talks" (Making Waves Records) The Miracle Legion play tight-guitar­
and-drums rock 'n' roll. "So what?" you say, "Who doesn't?" Well you've got a point but these guys aren't singing about a six pack and being real lonely on a Saturday_ night. Instead they've managed to be enigmatic with­out sounding pompous. "In the Backyard" seems to be about the singer's mother although he never says so. Lyrics like "The world was so big and I was so small)!our voice was always ... the loudest ofall" sure sound like he's talking about his mother. But it could be his father or his girlfriend or his alcoholic grandma. The mood is sad with­out being sentimental and the music is great. The guitars are crisp and loud, the drums are sparse and mean and the whole song turns on a great hook. It isn't a miracle but it is a great single. 
Independent labels are the fu­ture of rock and roll. The big companies, Columbia, Warner , etc., are usually too busy to care about anything else but money. lndie labels have no money and don't have much chance of making any. They're in it for the fun and the fact that they care about the MUSIC. So do yourself a favor, buy some records by groups you've never heard of. You'll like what you hear more often than you think and you'll support what rock 'n' roll was all about in the first place. Indepen­dence. 

' 
.:~ 
-
' 
' 
.
I
.!.... ·----­
the Feelies
TheFeelies feelgood 
MARY JACOB)' music, which is simple yet some­confused by a sense of place. 
features editor how strangely uplifiting, consid­And don't look to Mercer's lyrics 
ering the sedate vocals and dis­for clarification; they just kind of 
Some albums seem to unfold guised power of the beat. hang on incoherently but magi­in time, probing deeper and The Good Earth is a happy sort cally to the music, sometimes ur­deeper into the listener's con­of album in an enigmatic, con­ging it on, a drone supporting sciousness with each spin on the tradictory way: major chord the album's real star--the music turntable. The best albums may music with a toe-tapping drum itself. initially seem the most dis­beat dragging along Glen Mer­As to the Feelies themselves, posable albums--on the first lis­cer's wispy, seemingly passion­the group is somewhat of an ten. less voice. The music's depth be­anamoly. They released an aptly 
comes apparent on repeated titled album in 1980 called Crazy 
listens. The muted vocals com­Rhythms which featured the
Records 

plement quiet rhythms that hide group's trademark crisp, ringing their richness behind simplicity. guitars and solid beat but which
The Feelies 
the Good Earth 

The Good Earth is a densely tex­also seemed to scatter off in
The Good Earth 
tured album with unassumng several strange directions. But 
chord progressions that hum Crazy Rhythms put the Haledon, 
The Feelies' new album, The along crisply, leaving the listener New Jersey group on the map Bill Million, who share guitar and and Million, and perhaps his In­Good Earth, is an example ofthis with the feeling that something and drew the attention of critics vocal duties, regrouped them­fluence helped bring out some phenomenon. On the first listen, nice has brushed up against him and record companies. selves with new members for The of the same subtitles and under­all the songs seem to blend to­and slipped away like a breeze. For the first half of the '80s, Good Earth. And they definitely statment in the Feelies' music gether in a pleasant --but not No cut can be singled out be­the Feelies played sporatically cannot be termed prolific, having that is apparent in R.E.M.'s. Or clearly defined --fog of gentle cause they are all good. But the around the East and formed dif­just gotten around to releasing perhaps the Feelies have just rhythms and droning vocals. It titles--"On the Roof," "Let's Go," ferent music projects and experi­The Good Earth six years after mellowed out a bit during the requires the investment of some "Slipping (into something)," ments. Several members of the Crazy Rhythms. past six years. Whatever the case time, however, to recognize the "Two Rooms," "The Good Earth" original Feelies dropped out; and Peter Buck from R.E.M. co­may be, The Good Earth is easily Intricate beauty of the Feelies' --all suggest a sense of movement the band's leaders, Mercer and produced this album with Mercer one of the year's best albums. 


.'• '•
.' 

The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 14 
Sports Briefs 
The ND-SMC ski team will have a mandatory meeting Wednesday, Nov. 3, for for anyone interested in try-outs or the Christmas trip to Jackson Hole. A $100 trip deposit will be collected at the meeting, which will be held in the LaFortune Little Theatre. For more information contact Kathy (4029) or Lisa (284-4415). -The Observer 

Tournament pairings are ready for the following NVA activities -co-ree basketball; badmitton; men's, women's and grad volleyball; and men's and women's raquetball. It is the participants' responsibility to call NVA at 239-6100 for match info. -The Observer 
Body fat testing will take place Monday, Nov. 3, from 
7:15 to 8:30p.m. in the NVA office. The test is free, and participants should wear shorts and will be tested on a first-come, first-serve basis. -The Observer 
The Varsity Crew Team will be holding a meeting on Thursday at 7:00 in Room 127 Niewland to discuss Ten­nessee travel plans. Bring your checkbooks. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING CALL DOLORES 277-8131. 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-70011. 
JAZZ, NEW WAVE, CLASSICAL, THE BEST STAFF IN THE WORLD, WSND RULES. (and by till way -·re having a lund drlva.) Nov 2 -8. 
NOW doing typing In my home for atu· dante. Cell 232-111113. 
Attantlon MAD-TOWN BOUND people going with thl WCONSIN CLUBIII Don't mila thl bual Ba at thl main clrcll at 3:15 on Frldly to llgn lnaur­enca nlvera. The bua will leave at 
3:30 and ETA In Madlllon Ia 7:45 CST near the SE dorma at Frwncaa I Johnaon. Will Ieiva from Madlaon at 12 p.m. CST. Eat ~ or 0111111 
"Arw you dying to ba thin, or know aomeone who Ia"? FREE llcturw Thuraclay Oct. 30 8:00pm at the Canter for Social Concerna. Sponaonad by 
ucc 
CHINESE TUTORING I TRANSLA­TION (ANY LEVEL I ANY MATERI­AL)HIGHLY EXPER-IENCED CALL 277-1111411 ANYTIME 
LOST/FOUND I 
STOI..EN during ND-PIIt game, Canon T-70-.W"'OD-200mm lena. If you know anything about thla, call Bob at 3305 
HEY RAY You called me and uld your parwnta found my pu.... Whlrw did tilly •ve lt. Help mel I need my 1.0. 1nd Olhlr -milia. CALL 111!1 MOLLY (megan) 2114-5474 
LOST: One gold nKI!IIca with 3 chlnna ("Prwcloua," • hllf-IIMrt 1nd ac.-).OIGREATaantlmeniiiYIIu. -1 I'IWird Ia IYIIIablll Plllal call U11 at 211112, 2111 Lyona. 
Dirk blul aoflball jlcklt W81 ramovad Frtdly nlght(Oct.1oth) from Senior Blr. Daecrlptlon: The left chill had "Brwnclln" and a patch ·uac Softblll Chlmpl-" AIIO 1 patch on till left and right IIIIVII, "111 ~· lnd "2nd~·. If found piiiM Mnd to: 
· Brandln McGulrw 1211 Rolling lolllclow Rd. Plttlburgh PA 15241 

I 
LOST POCKET WATCH blforl thl bfllk with 11ttarw F8 angrwVId on thl back. Oraat aantlmanlll v1lul. Vwy gllllrOUI rwnrd. Cell 2111-8245. 
FOUND: Mlllcluarlng('N)In DINg. lnltllla an-Ibid. Cell 233-38024 to 

Identify.
i 
FOUND. H.P. BEFORE BREAK, CALL

~ 
TO IDENTIFY. 1412 

I• Loll: A 111t111r Hartrnlnn checkbook 
~ -lnd ct.cldlook left on • blnch outlkle Archil building Frldly blforl
I 
"-II. Plllal call Danlllll 284-51118. 
FOUND: CALCULATOR IN 224 CUs­HING. CALL DAN AT 1154. 
F'ouili:i···:;;;;;·b';;;ii;..·i~ ..208·..c;;;-~·hi~ii: 
Cell £1208 to cllllm. 
i:O&;:;·N":i:i:·c:i;;·iii;;;i~~i;i~·;::iiA':ii8 
lnakle Blue atone. Cell Tim 3248 -Ranrd If found. ................................................................ 
Loat: Gold S.lko w81ch aomewhera around So. Dining Hall Tuaaday din­nertime. If found, pl11111 call Shill• 272-31170. 
................................................................ 
FOUND: Guy'a Swatch In D2 parking lot on 1D-211-88. Call Mark at 4113 to claim. 
FOR RENT 
Two room lumlahld apt. privati an­tranca utllltlel paid 288-0855 morn­lnga. 
Guaatl corning for gam• nlld plica to ally? Sllvertlrook Bed-Bfllkfllt In Nllel. Clllln, quiet, fllaonable. 1118­11114-2323 avenlnga. 
2 room alftclency privati entrance utllltlea paid 288-0855 mornlnga 
WANTED 
8tudlnt Sprlng Bfllk RaptNantatlvea 
for Collegllltl Tour I TI'IVII. l!am 
cornplementlry trlpa and cuh for 
IliON lnfom111tlon call (1112) 7110-11324, 
or write NIDIM NE, Mln.-pcllla, liN 
115434 att: John 
Wlnt • ride, bulllr? The beiglmolllle Ia on till I'Oid again, looking for RIDERS or 1 RIDE to PURDUE till day of NOVEMBER II, 1111111. For IIIDNin­fomllltlon, or clllrw lnformltlon call Gertie, 214-5125. 
lnta-r.d In Tal Chi Chuan for hMith call 277·7152 after 4:00 PM. 
Nlld part-time Rill paqon for 
tvanlnga I -cllrlcal work. Apply In peraon at Shoeland North, 11081111 U.S. 31 N. from 4 -8 p.m. 
Are you lnllrMtld In •mlng up to 
18.00 par hour and IVIn morw. God­father'• Pizzi Ia lOOking for part time drlvwl. Aply In paraon at 521120 U. 8. 31 N. 
FULL AND PART TIME WAITRESS' NEEDED. MUST BE 21. APPLY AT SMITTY'S CONEY ISLAND TAP, 125 NO MICHIGAN, SOUTH BEND, IN 4111101 
WANTED: BILLY JOEL CONCERT TIX FOR Fri. Oct.31 Cell CHRIS at 214-511111 PLEASE HELP ME HAVE A HAPPY HALLOWEENII 
Help clllperltlly nlld ride to Purdue, can lllve on Thura. Will hllp with ••· pan-. PLEASE call Colllan £3887 
FOR SALE 
TIRED OF CATCHING RIDES? 74 VW Bug For Sell Dlw 277-1714 For Ria: Apple 111, monochrornaacr., and drive. Good condition. fll50, C1ll Steve 32511. 

................................................................ 
FOR SALE ·TRANSPORTATION CAR IN EXCELLENT CONDITION. NEW BATTERY, 8HOCK8,MUFFLER,CU8TOM EXHAUST.GERMAN-BUILT CAPRI WITH V-8 I LOTS OF POWER.CALL 232-8425 EVENING 
................................................................ 
TICKETS 
Make aurw my parwnta pay HCOnd ­m1atar tuition ao I can gat out of thla plaCI. Sell me 2 GAl for Penn Still ao they c1n axparlenca NO football. 
Call Mark at 2338. 
................................................................ 
ALUMNI NEED 4 PENN ST. TIX -513­11111·8341 AFTER 5. 
................................................................ 
NEED 1·5 GAS OR STD TIX FOR SMU AND PSU CALL PAUL 1755 
................................................................ 
FOOLISH MORTALS ... The YOCKMONSTER nllda 4 Penn State G~a and 4 atud. tlx to lurw un­auapactlng human ucrlflca vlctlma to NDI CALL 232-5478 to make 1 dill with thl Dlvlll ... THERE 18 NO ESCAPEIII 
................................................................ 
NEED 5 SMU GA'S AND ONE STUD TIK CALL MIKE 3211 OR 32011 
PA'Fi!·;n.s··c-c;iAiNo..Ffiou··,·u!·ii;:o 
RICO. NEED 2 TICKETS FOR NAVY GAME. PLEASE CALL 213-3457. 
wA'NT!i:i;"1''8ruoeN:r"ii!Nil·s;::\T£ 
TICKET CALL JAY 1221 
~·;·~~·st;t;;·'ii;·(~:·;·aii 
call Mlka 111111 •1111 
NiE'Ei:i'2'Q'A;'j;'Ofi'iiE'iiil'8riii'wii:i:: 
lNG TO MAKE GOOD DEAL CALL CHRIS AT 17811. 
i'ii!eo'2'suu..Tii'ii'cA'iioi:vN4831.. 2"NO::si'iu'ai_.;·4..siL.!;..c:ii:L."il1ii: 
738-2154 
iNeei:i'8i.i'u'A'Peilii'8r'oi~:272:e:iiiii 
i:iesiieiiArel.v";;;i;i~8...~~~..iit;i; 
tlckata. I nlld GA'I lncMH' atudent tlckall. Help me out If you canl David at 234-3337 
................................................................ 
NEED 2 SMU TIX CALL JAY AT £2174 
NEED I SMU TIX 
CALL JAY £2174 
................................................................ 
Nlld Penn Still GA'a. Pill• call Shalla 214-5111. 
NiE'Ei:i"oile"iiiA'li"Tici<IT":STiiii!ii"T 
OR 0~ ..C~LL 211811 
1n11c1 2 Penn 81111 G~·· Kllly 284­4455 
PARENTS CAN'T BEUEVE IRISH SEASON-HAVE TO SEE IT FOR THEM­SELVES. NEED 2 GA'S FOR PENN STATE OR &Mu-PLEASE CALL JOHN 3373 
................................................................ 
NEED SMU OA'S ~NO STUDENT TX PAUL·23114 
WVFI AM-64 will air Saturday's Notre Dame-Navy game live from Memorial Stadium in Baltimore with Frank Mastro and Sean Pieri calling all the action. Studio host Rudy "Brent" Brandl will update scores and high­lights throughout the evening. Covera~e commences at 6:30p.m. with the pre-game show featurmg "College Foot­ball Today" with Brian Broderick and Sean Munster and "Irish Review." 
The Rockne Memorial is offering the following safety courses: 
Red Cross lifesaving is offered Sundays noon to 3 p.m. in the classroom of Rolfs Aquatic Center. Cost is $10. 
Anyone interested in CPR, Lifeguarding, or Advanced First Aid should attend a sign-up session on today between 
4:30 and 7:30p.m. in room 218 Rockne. The Lifeguard course has prerequisites. 
For further information contact Bro. Louis Hurcik at 239-6321. 
Sports Briefs are accepted Sunday through Friday in The Observer offices on the trird floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center before 3 p.m. on the day prior to publication. -The Observer 
Coryell has had enough 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -San Diego Chargers Coach Don Coryell resigned Wednesday following a meeting with team owner Alex Spanos, a Chargers spokesman said. 
"I feel a change would be beneficial to the Chargers,'' said Coryell, 62. 
Coryell was in his ninth season with the Chargers, who are 1-7 in the current season. The team has lost seven straight games. 
Chargers spokesman Rick Smith said Coryell would be replaced by A1 Saunders, who was named assistant head coach at the end of last season. 
Coryell is the only coach to win more than 100 games at both the professional and col­legiate level. 
In 14 years as an NFL head coach at St. Louis and San Diego, Coryell was 114-88, in­cluding playoff games. 
The ObMIYtlr Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The ObHrver Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classlfleds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge Is 10 cents per five characters per day. 

NEED 8 PENN STATE GA'a CALL CHRIS AT 1713 
NEED 4 PENN ST GA'S CALL PAT 2034 
HELPII HELPII I nlld PENN STATE TIXS. Hllp me ahow Ill nd PI that my bro Q011 to tha wrong achool. PENN ST. TIXS for TODD at 1310 or 1308 
................................................................ 
I'm aaklng you nicely • PI-1111 me PSU the (atud. or GA) Cell Michelli B. at 4570 
BAREFOOT KENTUCKIANS nlld atud. or GA tlx for SMUII Lat my blckwooda buddlea -• gamal Call Diva at 32113 MOONSHINE to all who halpll 
................................................................ Mickey Gorbachev'a boy Rickey Is coming down for the SMU game and needs a student ticket. In the name of Detente, caD Jack at 1788. 
BUBBLE BUS 18 COMINGII BUBBLE BUS IS COMINGII THIS IS ONE BUBBLE I DON'T WANT TO BURST ... PLEASE HELP ME... NEED 25 W TIX STUD OR GA WILL DO... PLEASE CALL BONEHEAD AT 1245 OR 1352. 
BIG BUCKS FOR 3 PENN STATE TIX ..CALL TJ -253-1111111 
................................................................ 
SMU I PENN ST. GA'a FOR SALE 277­021111 
NEED 2 SMU STUD. TIX. CALL JANICE 272-81118 
CASH for 2-3 OA or Stud Tlx for Pan­nat 211111 
HELP Nlld 2 SMU GA and 2 atucllnt tlckall or 4 GA'a. Cell 1050 Ilk for Bob 
DESPERATELY nlld SMU Ux-all Klvln-11102 
NEED TICKETS FOR SMU OAMI!. CALL 214-511211 OR 272-11188. 
................................................................ 
PERSONALS 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER I UQUOR, CARRYOUTT03 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
................................................................ 
SENIORS: FOR 111117-811, CONSIDER WORK WITH HOI..Y CROSS AS. 80CIATE8 PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP. PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CALL MARY ANN ROEMER (711411) OR JANE PllZ (5521 ). 
Think You SL Jude 
DESPERATE TEXAN WILL DO AL· MOST ANYTHING FOR 2 SMU TICK· lETS. -STU OR OA-CALL CAROLYN­3531 
URBAN PLUNGE DEADUNI! EX· TENDED UNTIL FRIDAY. CALL 23• 71143 FOR MORE INFO. 
Trlah baby Mila HOly C.-you'rw ln­cnadlble, babaa from all of your ad­mi..... 
SENIOR SKI TRIPIII Slgn-upa will ba Nov 3-8 In Senior Clell Olftca S40 depollt, only 1125 for two daya at lloynl Mtn. Datu: 
CALLING ALL IN TRANSIT...LET'S TALK ABOUT THE PASSION R.E.M FANS ... RARE R.E.M MATERIAL, B· SIDES, UVI! STUFF, IMPORTS­, "BURNING HELL", "TIGHTEN UP", "FEMME FATALE", MORE-ALL AVAILABLE ON ONE HIGH QUALITY TDK TAPE FOR THE PRICE OF 1 AL· BUM. MOST SONGS STUDIO QUAliTY AND IMPOSSIBLE (NO JOKE) TO FIND. CALL CHINESE BROS. INC NOW AT 2485 OR 2!550 TO ORDER. VERY LIMITED SUPPLY. 
................................................................ 
Clalrw V.H.: Haa Anyon• Ever Told You that You Have OorgiOUI (GREEN) Eyaa? N.W.Y.T. 
LONDON CALLING: FARLEY'S FINEST gat paychadl Good luck In tha plllyolfa. Whip Lyonugaln; than make It 3 In • rowl Mlu U. From ENGLAND with love. 
................................................................ 
DEAR TONY J. I hope you have a FAN­TASTIC birthday beciUII you arw I VERY SPECIAL paraon who dlllai'YII to hlva 1 VERY SPECIAL blrthdaylll LOVE AND K188ESIII YOUR TIGHTGIRLIII 
Aaroblthon for United Way I Nov. 22, 1D-4. Sign upa Nov 4,5,111n the dining hallal 
Think You Agaln,St. Jucle,for ana-r­Ing all my prwyera. 
................................................................ 
RIDERS NEEDED TO MARQUETTE THIS WEEKEND. LEAVING AT 11 FRIDAY. CALL MARGIE AT 2114-8230. 
................................................................ 
ATTENTION ALL OFF-cAMPUS STU­DENTSII O.C. FORMAL THURS., NOV.II AT KNOLLWOOD COUNTRY CLUB TIX 11GCOUPLE CALL RACE FOR 
INFO 234-011112 (FREE FOOD I DRINKI) 
SMC Frwnch Club aponaorlng trip to St. JuHa Wlrwy 811. Nov. 1. U.ootJarwon. For morwlnto call Hillary 254-8233 or Donna 254-8210. Malting 141 Regina Wad. 1MII at 11:00. 
HENRY LEE SUMMER Tlcklll IVIIIIIIII In till cellar October 31, 11188 12.00 
Paopll at othlr Un"'-11111 arw 
paying 110.00 1 ticket to -HENRY LEE SUMMER. Whet do they know that Notrw Dime ~n't? Come and find out for only 12.00. &lipan Center • 8:00pm -Frldly 
HENRY LEI! SUMMER 
STEPAN OCTOBER 31,1111111 
8:00pm 12.00 Trull ua you wont -anotlllr bind thla good for only two dollara. HI juat llgnld a natlonll contrwct lnd tlllt meana till price Q011 up. ................................................................ 
WILLIS HAPPY REAL BDAY-DON'T DO TOO MUCH CRACK AND WATCH OUT FOR PUDDLI!SII LOVE CUB 
..-&ENIOR8...8ENIOR&*-Trlck-or­T...t Golf Outing Tomorrow(FRI), T­Oft from 12·2pm 13.00 par atudent .. -..cuss OF tllllr-­
-*8ENIOR8""***8ENIORS-­BIIIkltball Tlcklt C.mpout Blllhll Food, Drink, DJ Ill Nltl Sunday, at till ACC while --ltl!l Digger will ba atopplng by In till morning, and he'a lllklng Donutll -"CLASS OF 
,~.. 
SENIOR DAY OF REFLECTION with Fr. Flntln Steall on 1111 from 12:30-I:OOpm at Bulla Shad, acrou from P.E. on Juniper . p,.rwglltrMion not necM~~ry. 
J, 8, and T: Thlnkl for dinner and thl atlmulatlng dlacuaalon that accompa­nied lt. It will ba hlrd to top. Wa will have to dlacuu till aroualng aubjlct mora thll weekend OVIF I few Iliff 1 drlnka 1nd parllapa aome high protein anacka. And y11, moat of all, th1nka for making my b-elay ao 11nllatlc. Wa ahould arwct • monument for memory'• uka. R 
Karen Abood: I love you and want you forever. Beat wlsbes, Rooney. 
Senior Trip T·ahlrta call 3851 
THE LAW and IN YOUR SHRUBBERY at LEE'S RIBS tonight! 
Jlmbo, Wa know ahe'a tlglr-balt, but for which tiger, PrlnCiton or LSU? Wa thlnkl, GO LSUI 
ROME-DOMER&: Y•tlrday wu the one-yaer annlvar· ury of OSTIA·ANTICA, uya Patrick Conlin. Love ya, Portia. 
PANDORA BOOKS HAS MOVED TO 801 HOWARD BY NOTRE DAME AVE. SELL YOUR CLASS BOOKS FOR sa OPEN 7 DAYS FROM 1D-a:30. 233­2342. 
IT'S LAURA MINES' BIRTHDAYIII Hive a hlck-of-a,baba,juat don't looll your hlldll Hll Hel Hll Love Ya 
UdBrynAMiggle P.S. Did I -tall you lbout my grwndmolhlr??? 
HAPPY 18th BIRTHDAY LAURA MINESIII You'rw finally llgal -w.ll at IIIII you can vota llgallyll HIVI I gi'Mt one lnd BEWARE of Fuzzy Nlvela (In m-lv• quantltllllllll) loVI, your ldoptld 111 I Cloud 
1 RIDER NEEDED TO 80. FLA. OR ANYWHERE IN BETWEEN FOR 
THANKSGIVING. CALL MEUNDA 217· 47511 
To "NOT WHO YOU THINK"-Who ARE You??? 
TO MY FAN CLUB-Thlnkl for till 
a. and poem on till plane, It rniCII my day. Whln ... you Ill going to ,_1 youi'MIYII? lam Wilting. THE DANCING MACHINE 
MUFFIN, YOU SHOULDN'T HAVE SENT ME THE FLOWER8-YOU'RE TOO SWI!ETI THANKS SWEETIE, LOVE POOH 
Attantlon Domlrall Today Ia Laura Mln11 18th birthday, and -antyou to make aurw ahe hill a biiiL So, glva hlr1 call at 214-5428. Walove Yl blba. Bryn, Miura and Llurw. 
DANCEI DANCEI DANCEI Council for till Rellrdad prMint • HOLLOWEI!N D~NCE Friday, Octobar 31 from 7:30 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m • at till LOGAN CENTER 
DAVID M. JONES Congrlll on your 2111 
Thursday, October 30, 1986, -page 15

The Observer 
San Diego pitcher is arrested again for possession of pills 
Associated Press he allegedly tried to bring the border from Mexico about revealed two plastic bags in hundreds of illegal pills into the 7 p.m. PDT. Hoyt's groin area containing United States, a Customs According to Fleming, an in­322 Valium tablets, 169 SAN DIEGO -San Diego spokesman said. spector got suspicious when he Quaaludes, and 30 unidentified 
Padres pitcher Lamarr Hoyt Mike Fleming, public affairs noticed a bulge in Hoyt's cloth­tablets, Fleming said. officer for the U.S. customs ing and took Hoyt to a second­This was Hoyt's third run-in
was arrested Tuesday night at 
the San Ysidro border crossing Pacific Region, said Hoyt was ary inspection area for a pat­with the law this year. The by U.S. customs agents when stopped as he walked across down search. The search former Cy Young Award win­
& 
THE KING SAYS PRICES GOOD THRU 
ITHINK ISMELL A NOV. 1, 1986 
or while
WAR COMING" 

Quantities Last 
. 

····-····­
BOURBON • CANADIAN SCOTCH • BLEND LIGHT OR DARK RUM 
7 FLAVORS TO CHOOSE FROM 
SEE OUR WINE DEPT'S GREEN DOT SPECIALS 
50% off 
SPECIALS AVAILABLE 

AT ALL 10 OF OUR ~r,JtatCONVENIENT LOCATIONS L.::.J t ~ J 
ner was detained at the border in February after U.S. Customs agents found illegal pills on him. Also in February, San Diego police stopped Hoyt and cited him for carrying mari­juana cigarettes and a switchblade. 
Field hockey takes victory 
By MARGOT MACHECA Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame field hockey rebounded from its last five games when it traveled to Val­paraiso yesterday and tallied a 2-1 victory over the Crusaders. 
With the win, the Irish raised their season record to 6-9-1 in­cluding a 2-0 sweep of Val­paraiso in both of the meetings between the two teams this fall. 
In the first period, junior for­ward Ann McGlinn scored the first Irish goal on an assist from senior Steph Giggetts. Just before the half ended, Val­paraiso scored on a breakaway to tie the match at 1-1. 
Giggetts knocked in the final and deciding goal on a feed from sophomore link Christine Sweeney to secure the victory for Notre Dame. 
Head coach Jill Lindenfeld 
liked what she saw in her 
team's performance and con­
tributed the low score to player 
losses on the forward line and 
a strong defensive showing for 
the Irish. 
"The team played a great game on a lousy field, but we did not have Corrine DiGiacomo, our leading scorer," noted the coach. 
Despite a broken nose from an earlier match, co-captain Mary Wagner did contribute yesterday to add needed strength on offense. 
The Irish also had to make 
up for the loss of junior Benet 
DeBerry, the team's most dom­
inant defensive player. 
"We did not have Benet today, but the links played very well," remarked Lindenfeld. "The whole team really had to drive and hit the ball hard on a field with very thick grass." 
Although the Irish controlled the ball for practically the en­tire game, they missed many opportunities to improve their score. 
"We totally outshot Valpo and we had thirteen penalty corners, but we could only capi­talize twice," noted Linden­feld. "Our defense played their usual strong and consistent game." 
In the final home game of the season for the team, the Irish face Albion College on Cartier Field at 3:30 p.m. Monday. There will be both varsity and junior varsity contests between the two schools. 
Following the Albion matchup, Notre Dame will have only one regular season game before traveling to Ken­tucky for the Midwest Regionals. 
? 
PAC&SHIP 
Balloon Bouquets 
from $5 and up r. 
delivery available Emery, Pony & 
cy
UPS Shipping 
Dry Cleaners 
Stamps & Photo Proceu. 277-7748 


The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 16 
Rushing game boosted ,_,, by Taylor's recovery 
By TERRY LYNCH likes what he has seen. 

Sports Writer "Pernell hadn't played foot­ball in two years," says Stock. Sometimes there are injur­"It takes courage to step back ies, and then there are just out onto the field after that. plain nightmares. Just talk to He's had some peaks and val­Pernell Taylor, and he'll tell leys. "With the new offensive you all about it. philosophy, we wanted him to Imagine this scenario. You adjust himself to the various are an all-everything running things we wanted him to do. It back and linebacker at your was a learning experience, but high school. You live in as time wore on, his confidence 
LaPuente, Calif. Colleges are came." 

actively seeking you left and It's the kind of confidence 
right, offering you free rides at that has Taylor leading all Irish 
various locations all over the rushers with 209 yards on 50 
country to play with a football carries with two touchdowns. 
every now and then in the fall It's the kind of confidence that 
semester. The weather is looks like it's finally starting to 
warm and sunny. The beach is pay off. 

not all that far away. Life is It's the kind of confidence 
grand. 

that makes even the Dunes look Pernell Taylor (46) has overcome injuries to Lynch features the leading rusher for the Irish You decide to take Notre like a California beach. become Notre Dame's starting fullback. Terry in his story at left.
Dame up on its offer. A good decision, or so you think. You have chosen a fine school, and one that isn't averse to playing 

GOFROMCO~GE~THEARMY
with footballs on Saturdays in 
the fall. Life is still grand, as 
you take off in a big jet plane. 
Two weeks into summer I 

WITHOUT MISSING A BEAt 
practice, before your first class, your knee decides life 

The hardest thing about break­of 40 performances a month, there's read music, performing in the Army ain't so grand anymore. In fact, 
ing into professional · also the opportunity for travel-could be your big break. Write: 
it pretty much disintegrates. 

music is-well, break­not only across America, but possibly Chief, Army Bands Office, Fort 
You face the surgeon's knife and a long, long recovery. The 

ing into professional abro.1d. Benjamin Harrison, IN 46216-5005. weather is cold and rainy, and 
music. So if you're Most important, you can Or call toll free 1-800-USA-ARMY. 
the Dunes aren't your idea of 

looking for an oppor­expect a first-rate pro­
a beach. What are you going to do? 

tunity to turn your fessional environment "After the injury happened, 
musical talent into from your instructors, 
I had the option of missing my 

a full-time perform­facilities and fellow
first year and coming back to start over a year later," says 

ing career, take a musicians. The Army Taylor. 
good look at educational 
"I missed my first week of 

Army. programs that
school because of the hospital, but I wanted to stay here and 

It's not can help you get the first year of academics 
all parades pay for off-
behind me. I talked to my par­

and John Philip . duty instruc­
ents, and they thought it would be better if I stayed and got the 

Sousa. Army . tion, and if work out of the way. bands rock, you qual­"It was tough just to sit back 
waltz and boogie ify, even
and watch the games, but I

• couldn't do much about it." as well as march, help you t So freshman year rolls by, 
and they perform repay
you've suffered through all oft the hassles, and now you're before concert au ready to play. Or so you would diences as well -insured 
t like to think. After major sur­as spectators. · student loans. ARMY BAND. 
gery, the knee starts to heal, 

but it takes its toll. With an average Ifyou can sight-BE ALLYOU CAN BE.
r 
"When sophomore yeari came, the knee was fine, but 
i 
the muscles around it in my leg were weak, so I decided not to risk playing on it," says 
i 
Taylor. So you sit around for a second season. You still haven't found 
anything that quite resembles the Pacific Ocean in northern Indiana. 
But things begin to look up after the long wait ends. For Taylor, that happened last year. Finally, he was able to play football, although sparing­

r ly . Maybe the biggest break for 
I 
l• Taylor came last November, when Lou Holtz was announced as head coach. And to a ful­lback, an incoming option coach means more time on the 
field and more responsibility. And if you haven't played much in three years, it means a heck of a lot more fun. 
"I loved it," says Taylor about how he reacted to the new offense Holtz brought with 
him. 
"Last year, the fullback was a glorified lineman. This year the fullback touches the ball on almost every play. 
"Now you don't know who's going to get the ball, so that opens up the hole for the ful­lback." 
Running Backs coach Mike Stock has watched Taylor bounce back and try to adjust to the new offense. So far, Stock 


The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986,-page 17 
Big Ten championship is in doubt, according to conference leaders 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. -Michigan and Ohio State are back on top in the Big Ten football race, threatening a return to their 1970s domination of the league. 
Not so, chorused most Big Ten coaches yesterday in their weekly telephone interview. 
Back in the 1970s, the Big Ten was represented in the Rose Bowl solely by Michigan and Ohio State. 
The championship monopoly was broken up by Iowa in 1982 and 1985, and by Illinois in 1983. 
So far this season, Michigan is undefeated and ranked third nationally. No. 17 Ohio State has climbed back into the rankings with six straight vic­tories. 

"~owehS fptt a~Q occoglong.H 
Comein and Browse 327 Lincolnway .232~3354 

ll~~~~l, -M E E T I N G , ~ for anyone interested I c__/"in being an assistant manager 
WHEN: Thursday, October 30 J 
WHERE: Theodore's (2nd Floor LaFortune) 


NORTRWESTERN UNIVERSITY CENTER FOR NURSING announces OPEN HOUSE Saturday, November 1, 1986 10:00 am -2:00 pm American Bar Center 750 N. Lake Shore Drive Suite 601 Chicago, Illinois "Nursing As A Career" Bachelor of Science in Nursing Master of Science Meet Faculty, staff, and students Learn about full and part-time programs 908-8298  
The Notre Dame Club ofMaryland proudly presents Notre Dame· Navy in Baltimore Friday, October 31 Notre Dame Pep Rally /Party 7:30p.m. Omni International Hotel-Featuring coaches & former gridirion greats with music by the N.D. Alumni Band, a local Irish band, and a D.J. Cash bar and food Available. Cost $3.00 Saturday, November 1, 1986 Bull Pen Bash 3-6:30 p.m. Memorial Stadium Bullpen (behind Center Field) Pre-game entertainment and refreshments. Cost $2.00 Omni International Hotel 4:00p.m. KICKOFF Memorial Stadium 7:00p.m. Marriott Hotel Lounge: Post Game Celebration Illusions Inner Harbor  


The two teams are tied for the Big Ten lead with 4-0 records. If Ohio State defeats No. 11 Iowa this Saturday, the championship probably will be decided when Michigan and Ohio State meet Nov. 22. 
Could the two powers be heading for another period of conference domination? 
"I don't think Iowa would agree, and rightly so," said Michigan Coach Bo Schem­bechler. 
"Both of these teams have al­ways been in the race except for us in 1984. I'm not surprised that we're there now. But there are four games to go and I'm not as confident as I was in the 1970s." 
Ohio State's Earle Bruce, who takes his Buckeyes to Iowa on Saturday, was cautious with his reply. 
"School's still out," said Bruce. "We'll know more after this week. Iowa provides a tre­mendous challenge for us." 
MeNamara finishes second again as Lanier cops top skipper honors 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON-Hal Lanier of the Houston Astros, who learned his managing skills from St. Louis' Whitey Herzog, yester­day matched an honor won by his old boss by being named The Associated Press' Manager of the Year. 
Lanier guided the Astros to the NL Western Division title in his first year as a manager after five years as a coach for Herzog, who was manager of the year in 1985. 
Lanier received 53 votes and was a runaway winner over Boston's John McNamara in nationwide voting by sports writers and broadcasters, which took place before the playoffs. 
McNamara, whose Red Sox lost to the New York Mets in the World Series, received 14 votes. 
Texas Manager Bobby Valentine, a rookie like Lanier, was third with 12 votes, fol­lowed by Davey Johnson of the Mets with 10 votes. 
New York Yankees Manager Lou Piniella, Pat Corrales of the Cleveland Indians and Gene Mauch of the California Angels each received one vote. 
Lanier's Astros charged from an also-ran status all the way to the NL playoffs where they lost to the Mets in six games. 
"Whitey taught me how to run a pitching staff and I think that is a major part of manag­ing," Lanier, who was the Car­dinals' third-base coach in 1985, said. "I think I added to that a knowledge of how to recognize the talent we had and what we could do and couldn't do." 
Lanier said his 10-year major league playing career, five years as a minor league manager and five seasons of watching Herzog, had prepared him for the chal­lenge. 
Houston also became aggres­sive on the bases under Lanier. The Astros almost doubled their stolen bases from 1985, stealing 163 compared to 96. 
That was a key to the Astros' charge to their first divisional crown since 1980, when Manager Bill Virdon was named manager of the year. 
Set 
continuedfrom page 20 
working hard at it. The prac­tices are tough, but we're much happier with our play. If we keep improving, 'the sky is the limit."' 
Lambert, however, feels that it is better to take it 'one game at a time'. This weekend, the team will go back on the road facing Northern Illinois and Marquette. 

Women's Inter hall football is tight with playoff competition coming 
By JOHN MONY AK Sports Writer 
The womens' Interhall foot­ball playoffs start tonight at Cartier field. The post-season tournament should prove to be an exciting one with no clear­cut favorite having emerged among the field of four which includes Farley, Breen­Phillips, Pasquerilla East, and Lyons. 
Farley, Breen-Phillips, and Pasquerilla East finished the regular season in a three-way tie for first place with each pos­ting a 6-1 record. The tie­breaker was determined by adding the total points scored in the games between the three teams. 
Farley came out on top then, with Breen-Phillips second and Pasquerilla East third. The fourth team, Lyons, finished 4-3 losing to all of the three top teams but winning the remainder of the games on their schedule. 
The first game tonight will feature Farley vs. Lyons at 7 
p.m. Farley will be the heavy favorite. Farley possesses an explosive offensive attack with talented quarterback Mary Lou Armeida who runs the op­tion and passing plays with equal skill. Farley coach Dave Hanes calls Almeida, "the key to our team." Hanes also cites running back Suzanne Schwartz as a major con­tributor to the Farley offense. 
"Our team is peaking at the right time," said Hanes. " We'll be ready for the playoffs." 
Lyons coach Matt Roy isn't ready to concede the game yet, however. 
"They're (Farley) loaded with talent, but we're talented too," he said. 
A lot of that talent is housed in Lyons tailback Robin McHugh. 
"Robin is probably the back-
l 
bone of our-team,,-said Roy. l "If you don't cut her off, she'll get outside and score." t 
Coach Roy thinks that Lyons 
J
will fare better tonight than 
1 ~
they did in their loss to Farley during the regular season. 
I
" We played them early in 
I 
the year. We didn't have our I act together," explained Roy. 
" Our girls want to prove that they can do something." 
l 
I 
The second game tonight will start at 8 p.m. with Pasquerilla East taking on Breen-Philips. l Breen-Phillips features a j strong defense while Pasquerilla East sports a pow­
l
erful offense with accurate quarterback Colleen Donnelly and her favorite target, the speedy Annie Schrenk. Breen­Phillips won the first meeting between the teams 20-0. 
The championship game will be held Sunday at 7 p.m. at Car­tier field. 

The Observer Thursday, October 30, 1986, -page 18 

By DEIRDRE FINN 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team raised its record to 16-5 on Tuesday, defeating both Marion and Manchester Col­leges. 
The Belles beat Marion in three out of four games, 15-9, 15-12, 8-15, and 15-6. 
The team's second win came in three straight games, as the Belles defeated Manchester, 15-12, 16-14, and 15-7. 
Senior Julie Schroeder, and sophomore Margaret Feldman, led the Belles in kills for the day, scoring 12 and 10, respectively, for the first match, and 17 and 9, respec­tively, in the second match. Schroeder also aided Saint Mary's, totaling six service aces for the day. 
These wins bring the Belles' league record to 8-1, their only league loss to Huntington Col­lege earlier in the season. 
The tea:m leads the district in passing percentages with a .920 avera~e per game. 
In addition, the Belles are ranked third in the state for most blocks per game. 
Schroeder leads the league in this category, while senior teammate Mary Reidy ranks third. 
The Belles face stiff compe­tition this weekend in the Saint Mary's College Volleyball Invi­tational, in which eight colleges and universities will partici­pate.
Two exceptional teams the Belles will be facing are Illinois Benedictine and Franklin Col­leges. 
Illinois Benedictine ranks first in the nation in the third division NCAA. The team has a 26-5 record, with one loss to the Belles earlier in the season. 
Franklin is also a seeded team, with a 25-5 record. It leads the Southern League and is undefeated in league matches. 
BUY OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 


t 
r 
t 
~ 
~ 
Come dance to the music of 
•---------~-THEURGE-----~-~ 
Moosehead, Molson $1 

t 
t 
' 
Friday: Fright Night Halloween Party 

r 
t 
I 
I 
Burtnett's status secure until finish; President doesn't want to disrupt 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE -Coach Leon Burtnett's future at Purdue will be decided at the end of the football season, says Athletic Director George King, refusing to put additional pres­sure on a team that has lost six straight games. 
"I can't give you a definitive statement right now," King said. "I don't want to ~et into the game of s~culatlon be­cause I don't think that's help­ful to the program." 
Burtnett says he knows "there are some people out there who are out to get me," but he has no intention of quit­ting. 
"You can print this ... I will never resign from Purdue Uni­versity," said Burtnett, who two years ago was the Big Ten coach of the year but has come under increasing fire as Purdue slipped to 1-6 this season. 
As the Boilermakers prepare to play Northwestern in Evanston Saturday, they are trying to avoid becoming the first team in school history to lose seven straight games in a season. 
Despite Purdue's problems, Burtnett appears to have the support of President Stephen C. Beering and King. 
"Nothing will happen until the season ends, then an eval­uation will take place the kind of evaluation that we do every year for every coach in every sport. Then we'll go from there," said King. 
Burtnett confirmed Tuesday that $450,000 "is in the bal­lpark" of what it would take to pay off the salary and perks for the remaining four years of his current five-year contract. 
But Burtnett, 19-32-1 in his four seasons as head coach after serving five years as an assistant under Jim Young, has no intentions of it coming to that. 
"I love Purdue and I love the alumni," he said. "I know they're not happy we're losing, and I'm sure not happy we're losing. We're all in the same boat there. 
"My job just happens to be one that I'm judged on every Saturday by 70,000 people, very few of whom have ever had a football suit on but are experts in our field. 
"But they can always fire you. You're hired to be fired. They get us all eventually. And if they want me bad enough and are willing to pay off four years, they can get me. I have no control over that, so I don't worry about it." 
Burtnett said 80 percent of spring practice was devoted to the running attack, but injuries have decimated runners and blockers. 
"This is not a true test of this football team because of all the people we've lost," Burtnett said. "I'm not saying we would have won the Big Ten, but the outlook would have been a lot different." 
Burtnett said he has lost nine key players for the season, some to injuries, several be­cause of academic shortcom­ings and two due to expulsion from school. 


BUDWEISERIII•KlNG OF BEERSGI>•ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC.•ST. LOUIS 


'JI['4CJt.cll~~----------------------------------------------------T•h•u•r•sd•a•y•'•O•c•to•b•e•r•30•,•l•W•6•,•-•pa•g•e·l-9
Bloom County Far Side Gary Larson 
PVK!Nf:J 1HE hllu&NNIA 1HM --HOWff/ 
I

MIIN AN/?~ HIIVt 5()(J(,fff ~ lk'AIN !NT!KKfPT 
I

ANI? 5NA~/l WMS ... fiJI? II 5Pf3CIIIt.. 
Ye5~AY we 
fM'f(£ "T!KKI!J(..Y 
Utt/JIII?KA5SC!l~. 

Beer Nuts Mark Williams 
Ill! THIS IS ' UH, /JEll, .... W£ SEtH TO . -HEY, AFTER THE UAY 'IW~ CAPTAIN -OH, "IJAVf AWOffiTALLY STRAYFP _ IS THAT ALl? I'IY wsrR· WENT, THIS 
•JllfAKJNG--LJIAT NOIJ? -ot£R NJCARA61JAN AIR51¥lc.E.~. IS PEANUTJJ 
, .. ' ' 
D -tVf CHArrED WIT/I TIUfR GRDIJND. 

. CONTR!X., AND WE'VE IEEN TOlD ~ 

A Week ofHalloween Movies in tlae Engineering Auditorium 
SAB Presents 
Fri. & Sat.
Thurs. 

NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREETPSYCHO 
7:00, 9:15, 11:30 7:00, 9:15, 11:30 $1.50 $1.50 

TO LAND OR GfrOIR TUSHES . BWIJN OlffOF THE SKY. • 
, I I t I 
•r::.'" 

Campus · 
12:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m.: MBA Mini-forum, Lawrence Dodd, Prof. of Political Science, representatives from 40 MBA schools, Univ. of Colorado, 122 Hayes-Healy CCE 4:30p.m.: Kellogg Institute and the Car­
2:00 p.m.: Lecture, "The Degradation of negie Council on Ethics and international Skills Hypothesis", by William Form of Affairs 1986-87 Ethics and Foreign Policy Ohio State University s~nsored by the Lecture Series Theme: The 'Moral Na­Exxon Distinguished Visiting Scholar Se­tion': Humanitarianism and U.S. Foreign ries, College of Arts and Letters, and Dept. Policy in the 1980s. "Cooperation in of Sociology, Library Lounge Humanitarian Efforts: A Case Study," by 
2:45 p.m.: Depts. of Anthropology and Ambassador Lawrence Pezzullo, Execu­Modern and Classical Languages Public tive Director, Catholic Relief Services, Lecture, "Aging in Japan, Lessons to be Center for Continuing Education Learned?" by Stephen Nussbaum, 6:30p.m.: Presentationteception for all Earlham College, 20 Hayes-Healy juniors and seniors interested in career 4:00p.m.: RadiationLaboratorySeminar, opportunities with Proctor and Gamble, "Theoretical and Experimental Studies of sales, Senior Alumni Club the Solvated Electron," by Dr. Charales 7:00 p.m.: Meeting, Overseas Develop­Jonah, Chemistry Division, Argonne Na­ment Network, Multi-purpose room, CSC tional Laboratory, Conference Theatre, 8:00 p.m.: Dept of Theology Lecture, Radiation Laboratory "Religion and Politics: The View from 
4:00 
p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visiting Capitol Hill," by Democratic Congres­Scholar Series, College of Arts and Let­swoman Corrine Claiborne ("Lindy") ters, and the Dept. of Sociology Lecture Boggs, CCE Auditorium Theme: Advances in Sociological Re­9:00p.m.: Debate, "Role of Women in the search. "Trends in Gender Stratifica­Catholic Church", sponsored by Grace tion," by Joan Huber, Dean, College of So­Hall Social Concerns Group, pit of Grace cial and Behavioral Sciences, Ohio State. Hall 23 Galvin Life Sciences 

4:00 
p.m.: Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism Hibernian Lec­Dinner Menus ture Series, "Ireland and the American Irish: Two Views of Irish Nationalism," 


Notre Dame 

by William Shannon, Prof. of History and Journalism at Boston University and 
Swiss Steak

former ambassador to Ireland, Memorial 
Stir Fry Chicken & Vegetables
Library Lounge 
4:10 p.m.: Presentation, "Career Oppor­Hungarian Noodle Bake tunities for American Studies and English Tomato Cheese Bagel Melt with Majors" by Paul Reynolds of Career & Muenster Cheese & Onion Bagel Placement Services, 105 O'Shaughnessy 4:15-5:30 p.m.: Exxon Distinguished Visit­
Saint Mary's 

ing Scholar Series, College of Arts and Let­ters, and the Dept. of Government Lecture Theme: The Recurring Founding: The Beef and Vegetable Stir Fry Constitution and Political Developement Turkey Cutlets in the United States, "Congress and the Manicotti Post-Industrial Transformation," by Deli Bar 
The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 
1 Promontory  
5 Used a cipher  
10 Great deal  
14 Bullring  
cheers  
15 Place of  
combat  
16 QED word  
17 Sidney Sheldon  
novel  1:::-+--+-­ 
20 Feeds the  
kitty  
21 Divulge  
22 Tennis term  
23 Sharp pain  
26 Edges  
28 Boring tool  
31 God of love  
33 Stage whispers  
37 Medieval poem  
38 Make into law  
40 Volcano output  
41 Sidney Sheldon  
novel  
45 Ship's bottom  
46 Hindu lute  
4 7 Bitter vetch  "1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc.  10/30/86 

All Rights Reserved
48 Wandering 51 Persian elf 52 Porcine place 8 Record 53-the bill 9 Showy flower 55 Gr. community 10 Part of a trip 57 Wood sorrel 11 Phonic 60 Membership 12 Domesticate 
fees 13 Printer's 62 Afr. antelope direction 66 John D. Mac­18 Regard highly 
Donald novel 19 Shade trees 70 Sword 24 lt. river 71 Irregularly 25 Hogs 
notched 27 Missile 72 One: Ger. housing 73 Remain 28 Similar 74 Outmoded 29 Biscuit 75 Woodwind 30 Unit of 
capacity DOWN 32 Paper currency 1 Unconscious 34 Titled women 
state  35 Tum inside  49 Plant stem  59 l X W  
2 Milne or Paton  out  swelling  61 Fired a gun  
3 Gadfly  36 Impertinent  50 Went sight­ 63 Rose's beau  
4 Sen. Kefauver  39 Carried  seeing  64 Hawaiian goose  
5 Vehicle  42 Norwegian king  54 Tropical fish  65-Scott  
6 Rio de­ 43 Thing to sell  56 Mr. Gantry  67 Lock opener  
7 Nimble­ 44 Black Sea  57 Certain poems  68 Enzyme suffix  
fingered  peninsula  58 Army off.  69 A Beatty  






az_ a_ a
FC• a & ---c L 
I I 
~ 
r Thursday, October 30, 1986, -page 20
t 
l Seorts
I 
f 
t Irish soccer team defeats Valpo 
~ 
t 
I 
despite unimpressive performance 
By PETE SKIKO paraiso shouldn't have even McCourt, Notre Dame's Sports Writer been in the game. I suppose if leading scorer, got his second we're going to play a game like goal of the game assisted by 
Despite a somewhat lack­that I'd prefer that we play it Morris, to provide the final luster performance, the Notre against a relatively easy op­margin of victory. Grace, Dame men's soccer team ponent, but I'd rather not see however, hopes the Irish can struggled past Valparaiso yes­it at all." pick up the pace as they head terday, grinding out a 4-1 vic­mto the home stretch of the tory at Valparaiso. Sophomore Joe Sternberg season. 
With the win, the Irish opened the scoring for the Irish pushed its record on the season early in the first half off of a "I told the guys before the to 11-6-1, and maintained its pretty feed from Bill Gross in game," said Grace, "that I dominance over the Crusaders the corner. After the Crusaders wasn't comfortable with their in regular season play. Notre scored shortly thereafter to tie attitude going in and it showed Dame has won all five contests the game, Bruce "Tiger" on the field today. I think they played between the two McCourt tallied near the end of might have had their minds on schools. But third-year Head the half to give the Irish a 2-1 Miami (the Florida Interna­Coach Dennis Grace was not halftime lead. tional Tournament this particularly excited with his weekend) so I'm not overly 
squad's manner of play. In the second half, an out­concerned, but we certainly manned Valparaiso squad should have played better 
"We'll take the win," said couldn't get anything going, today." Grace, "but this was definitely and watched as sophomore one of our poorest perfor­Randy Morris gave the Irish The Irish face the U.S. Naval mances of the year. This was some breathing room and a 3-1 Academy on Saturday and the a team which we should have lead by poking in a Pat Murphy Sunblazers of Florida Interna­shut out, and the game was centering pass. Later, with tional in Miami on Sunday. close in the first half when Val-about a minute left in the game, Both games begin at 1 p.m. 
Clemens and Carter head AL-dominated list of all-stars 
Associated Press was picked as the center fielder Clemens with four votes. .573 slugging percentage also missing a game. Fernandez got and Jesse Barfield of Toronto Valenzuela, brilliant was best in the majors. He got 61 votes with Baltimore's Cal 
NEW YORK -Boston Red as the right fielder. throughout his career with the 91 votes ana Houston's Glenn Ripken receiving 18. Sox pitcher Roger Clemens and Joining Clemens as pitchers Dodgers, went 21-11 for his first Davis was far back with three. Rice made an effort to hit for catcher Gary Carter of the were left-handed starter Fer­20-victory season. Valenzuela, higher average this year and it 
World Series champion New nando Valenzuela of Los An­who turns 27 this week, Sax had his best all-around worked as he batted .324 with York Mets lead the 1986 Asso­geles and reliever Dave Rig­received 73 votes and finished year. His .332 average was 20 home runs and 110 RBI. Rice ciated Press All-Star team an­hetti of the Yankees. far ahead of Milwaukee's Ted second in the NL, he stole 40 got 47 votes with George Bell nounced yesterday. Houston's Hal Lanier was Higuera, who got 14. bases and he committed just 16 of Toronto runnerup at 28. chosen earlier as manager of Righetti set a single-season errors, his lowest total for a full Cleveland's Joe Carter, who led 
Clemens got 94 votes as the the year. save record with 46. He was season. He got 51 votes and the majors with 121 RBI, got top right-handed starter in a Ballotting was done prior to named on 71 ballots and outdis­Houston's Bill Doran was run­three votes as a left fielder and nationwide poll of 100 the postseason, with voters tanced St. Louis rookie Todd nerup at 14. seven as right fielder. sportswriters and naming one player at each po­Worrell, named on 20. Schmidt, 37, enjoyed one of Puckett, 25, had one of the 
broadcasters. Carter was sition. Carter, with eight All-Star his finest years. He led the NL most productive seasons in the named 93 times. In the closest race, Barfield Game appearances, finished with 37 home runs and 119 RBI majors. The Twins' leadoff hit­
Also picked were first got 31 votes to finish one ahead third in the National League and batted .290. Schmidt, a ter batted .328 with 31 homers baseman Don Mattingly of the of Cincinnati's Dave Parker. with 105 runs batted in while nine-time All-Star, made only and 96 RBI, stole 20 bases and New York Yankees, second Clemens, 24, was the most hitting 24 home runs and bat­eight errors. He got 83 votes was among the outfielders in 
baseman Steve Sax of the Los dominant pitcher in baseball ting .255. Tony Pena of Pit­and finished ahead of major­assists. His 79 votes put him Angeles Dodgers, third this season, leading the majors tsburgh got five votes. league batting champion Wade ahead of the Yankees' Rickey baseman Mike Schmidt of the with a 24-4 record and helping Mattingly, the 1985 AL most Boggs of Boston, who got 15. Henderson, who got 16. Philadelphia Phillies and the Red Sox into the World Se­Valuable Player, was second in Fernandez, 24, continued to 
shortstop Tony Fernandez of ries. He started the season with the majors with a .352 average develop as one the most excit­Barfield led the majors with 
the Toronto Blue Jays. a 14-0 record and went to top and hit 31 homers with 113 RBI. ing young players in baseball. 40 home runs. He batted .289 
Jim Rice of the Red Sox was the American League with a Mattingly, 25, led baseball with He batted .310 with 10 homers with 108 RBI and tied for the chosen as the left fielder, Kirby 2.48 earned run average. Hous­238 hits and 53 doubles, both all­and 65 RBI, stole 25 bases and major-league high by throwing Puckett of the Minnesota Twins ton's Mike Scott was second to time Yankee records, and his was flashy in the field while not out 21 runners. 
Morin makes smooth transition as Notre Dame keeps improving 
By KELLY TOWNSEND ing her setting ability. As a year we said 'we should have 
:sports Writer rightside hitter Kathy totalled beat."' 158 kills last year and 225 digs. The strongpoints of the team 
Today the Notre Dame vol­Her switch came after injuries are the blocking and serving.leyball team will be playing to both Jill Suglich and Mary Faults that Lambert has found host to Bradley University. McLaughlin. are weak passing, low consis­This will be the team's second "At first I was uncomfort­tency of play and a poor transi­meeting with Bradley this able, but now I like it," says tion from offense to defense. year, after defeating them at Morin. The game is totally dif­Over the past few weeks he's the Bradley Tournament in ferent. I'm in control of the ball been working on a new transi­September. Coming off a very and get to be in on most of the tion. successful road trip over plays. I still come in an hour ''The serving and blockingbreak, the Irish are now start­before practice to work on my are good," says Lambert. "A ing the second half of their skills." good serve is an important 
season. weapon. It makes it easy for
-Setting UP. the Irish attack to­Her control has helped the the middle to get into position. morrow w11l be junior Kathy team so far this year with wins "The transition has not been Morin, and in this case, 'setting over Ohio State, Valparaiso, In­good. The girls are not used to up' is more than just an expres­diana, and Illinois State. Morin it and they are not concentrat­sion. has been with the team since ing on it. The next three weeks 
"Kathy has been working Coach Art Lambert arrived at will be tough and they can not 
hard and is turning into a fine Notre Dame. She has been part afford a let down. They are setter," says Coach Lambert. of Lambert's building process tired from last week, but they "She is a versatile player. I'm and is excited about this year's are recovering."pleased with her progress." performance. "Our transition is slow," 
After a switch from rightside "We're finally playing the agrees Morin, "but we've been hitter last April, Kathy has way we should be,'' says Morin. 
see SET, page 17

worked constantly on improv-"We're beatin_g teams that last 



