
-------~-~------------------~------------~----------~­
JIIQ , 
NO""':
t;OLU 
'tom\ 
IRISH EXTRA -inside 
Names of students arrested forwarded to ND by police 
Touchdown Jesus 
With arms raised, Jesus is depicted on the front of the Notre Dame Memorial Library. Hopefully, 
The Observer I Jeff Otto 
N.D. fans will see referees lifting their arms in similiar fashion to the Irish this Saturday. 
RASTA says guard did not alert of problem Schedule of events 
By MARK MELLETT 
Staff Rc'fXJriC't 
A Notre Dame security guard failed to inform members of Rally Against Starvation that a prob­lem with alcohol and drugs ex­isted at the group's sponsored concert. said Cathy Anne Reynolds, former president of RASTA. 
Sean Evers, president of the banned group, said RASTA relied on the Notre Dame security guard present to monitor the concert and inform them of any problems. 
Rex Rakow, director of secur­ity, said more than the one se­curity guard requested was needed at the concert. 
Evers said the guard didn't in­form them of any problems. "He didn't give us a chance to ad­dress the problem," he said. 
Reynolds said she also in­structed the security gaurd to in­form RASTA of any problems. 
"I would have been glad if Se­curity would have informed me," 
By TRIPP BALTZ 
News Editor 
Police have been forwarding the names of Notre Dame students arrested at raids of off-campus parties to John Goldrick, assistant vice president for residence life, according to Capt. Patrick Cottrell of the South Bend Police Department. 
Cottrell said the police force met with the University at the end of the last school year and decided to bring the names of arrested students to Notre Dame Security. "We take them to the head of Security after each raid," he said at a meeting with off-campus students at the Northeast Neighborhood Center Wednesday night. 
While Rex Rakow, director of Security, confirmed that the police routinely bring the names of cited students to Security, he said the reports do not go to the Office of Student Affairs. 
"We review them to look for particular problems," said Rakow, "but the reports stay here." 
Goldrick did not return a call made to 
his office yesterday. 
Rakow said Cottrell "misunderstood" what happened to the names of arrested _students once they are delivered to Se­curity. After reviewing the arrest reports, if Rakow determines a student has con­ducted himself in a way "contradictory to Notre Dame," he said he includes the stu­dent's case in a summary sent to the Of­fice of Student Affairs. 
The reports from the police are delivered the night of the raid or "in the next day or so," Rakow said. Sometimes the reports are nothing more than a list of names instead ofa copy of the citations themselves, he said. 
Security has been accompanying police during recent raids. "They call and say (the party) looks pretty bad," said Rakow, "so we go as observers. We really don't have any jurisdiction out there." 
Rakow added that it is rare that security will get involved in law enforcement away from the campus. "We're there to see that everyone is protected," he said. 
Rakow said that Goldrick was informed "left-handedly" through Security that two citations were delivered to Notre Dame resident assistants last weekend. 
The two resident assistants were dis­missed Tuesday by Goldrick. Rakow said a security officer who dates a policeman in the Roseland police force was looking for him that evening and dis­covered that he was involved in the raid at Bulla and Douglas, where the two RAs were arrested. According to Rakow, she went there as an off-duty officer, looking for her friend. 
"She just happened to be there," said Rakow. "She was there on her own capacity" he said. Citations were issutzd by state excise police responding to ttie raid. 
The security officer called in later and told Security about the raid. "She said a lot (of students) got arrested," Rakow said. She informed Security that two stu­dents were worried because they were RAs, according to Rakow. Later, this was reported by Security to the Office of Stu­dent Affairs. 
Rakow said the newly-appointed assis­tant of security, Phillip Johnson, also has attended police raids in a non-official capacity. Johnson went to a raid con­ducted near his home because he saw cars parked in the yard and the driveway. According to Rakow, Johnson was at the Friday night raid on Marx street 'just to 
see RAID, page 4 
·\ \\ l'l:'kl·nd \\ith \1il.'higan 
announcement. Maybe that 
for fans and alumni
she said. "I could have made an would have shook some people up." 
"I didn't find out about the in­
The Notre Dame Alumni Association is preparing for the cidents until four days after the 
return of more than 30,000 alumni, family and friends for concert." said Reynolds. 
the Michigan game tomorrow. Reynolds said RASTA took 
Events scheduled for the weekend are listed below. other precautions before the 
TODAY: concert. "We had people dispos­
4:30p.m. Band Rehearsal from Washington Hall. ing of their cans at the door," 
7 p.m. Pep Rally beginning outside Gate 9 of the ACC. she said. 
TOMORROW: Evers said the production of 
9 a.m. Band Rehearsal. The Notre Dame Marching Band marches from Washington Hall to Cartier Field. 

see RASTA, page 9 
10 a.m. Alumni Baseball game at Jake Kline Field, north of ACC. . 
I I a.m. Hospitality Center in the ACC North Dome. Notre
House approves new weapons for drug war 
Dame and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House yave final approval yesterday night to a bill providing new weapons for the war on drugs, including required use of the mil­itary and reinstitution of the federal death penalty for some drug dealers. 
The vote of 392-16 sent the bill to the Senate. 
The legislation plso would change the "exclusionary rule," to allow some illq~ally obtained evidence to be used in court. 
That rhan~e. alon~ with the military and death penalty provi­sions, were added to the bill as controversial amendments. 
Because of such measures, what began as a bipartisall bill uniting Democrats and Republicans, liberals and con­servatives, has now become bit­terly contested. However, it still was expected to pass. 
After the "exclusionary rule" passed, House Judiciary Com­mittee Chairman Peter W. rodino Jr. angrily commented that a bill designed to attack illegal drugs is now an "attack ... on the Con­stitution of the United States." 
invited to the Hospitality Center. Refreshments, entertain­Rodino and others warned that ment. films and information. Coffee will be provided compli­the bill would be "filibustered to ments of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
death" in the Senate, but Rep. 
I 2:30p.m. Glee Club concert in the ACC Notth Dome.
Tommy Robinson, D-Ark., . said I p.m. Performance by Shenanigans in the ACC Northhe was so delighted by the Dome.
changes that he thought he had 2 p.m. Pre-game performance in the Stadium.
"died and gone to heaven." 
2:30p.m. FOOTBALL GAME: Notre Dame Fighting Irish vs.
The overall legislation would Michigan Wolverines--Go Irish!!!
escalate the war on drugs by pouring billions of dollars into enforcement. education, After the game: Hospitality Center in the ACC. Notre Damerehabilitation, crop eradication, and Saint Mary's alumni, family and friends are cordially in­
and withholding of aid from vited to the Alumni Hospitality Center for refreshments. en­recalcitrdnt producer countries. 
tertainment. films and information.
The significant changes were Have a great weekend and visit us again soon! 

see DRUG, page 6 
.. 
The Observer Friday, Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 2 


I 
f 
~ 
I 
~ 
~ ~ 
I 
I 



In Brief 
Residents of the Stadium Scholarship Hall at Ohio State University can honestly boast that the Buckeyes play football in their backyard. The students live in the stadium. Th~ h~ll houses nearly 300 financial aid recipients who must mamtam at least a 2.8 GPA and perform various chores around the stadium to earn reductions in housing costs. -The Observer 
A weekend behind bars is being requested of all under­graduates in the criminal justice program at the University of New Haven, by the school's administrators. The pseudo­prisoners.stay for 28 hours in a former county jail and expe­rience everything actual violators under-go -including a strip search. "Students better understand what a person behind bars is feeling," said a spokesperson. -The Observer 
At the recent Notre Dame Air Force ROTC Change of Com­mand Ceremony, Cadet Colonel Jon Olanson relinquished command of the corps to Cadet Colonel Scott Brenton. During the ceremony, which took place in the Memorial Library auditorium, two Summer Field Training awards were pre­sented to Cadets Dave Pohlen and Bill Bailey for being the most outstanding cadets at their respective camps. Two hundred cadets also were briefed on new cadet scholarship policies. -The Observer 
Of Interest 
"A Celebration of Peace" will be held at the War Memoria today from 2:30 to 5 p.m. The celebration, featuring music, is sponsored by Women United for Justice and Peace. -The Observer 
An Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, open solely to mem­bers of the A.A. fellowship, will convene this Saturday and the Saturday of each home game. The meetings will be held at 9:30 a.m., regardless of kickoff time, in the Center for Social Concerns. The meetings, which will be led by A.A. members from the Notre Dame community and the South Bend area, are also sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. -The Observer 
A monthly liturgy for the hispanic community and other interested students will be held Sunday morning at I I in the Farley Hall Chapel. Father Pat Foley will celebrate the liturgy. The Observer 
A Washington Semester informational meeting will be held Monday night from 7:30 to 9 in I 14 O'Shaughnessy. For more information, contact Prof. Frederick Wright in 345 O'~haughnessy, 239-5628. -The Observer 
The Center For Social Concerns will host its first in a series of hospitality lunches on Wednesday from I I :30 a.m. to I :30 
a.m. A Vietnamese family will prepare their native food for the benefit of Vietnamese refugees. Extra egg rolls will be available for carry-out. -The Obsever. 
Observer Of Interests and In Briefs can be submitted at the Observer office to the Day Editor on the third floor of Lafortune Student Center until I p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer. 

Weather 
The first football weekend should get off to a sunny start with mostly sunny skies today and highs from 70 to 75. Clear tonight with lows from 50 to 55. Mostly sunny again Saturday with highs in the mid 70s. 

Design Editor . ........ Kathy Huston Accent Layout ......... Karen Webb .................. Melissa Warnke Typist . ................ Ester Ivory Typesetters . .......... Shawn Sexton ND Day Editor ............. Norine News Editor . .......... Cliff Stevens AdDesign . ............ Fred Nelson Copy Editor ........... Bud Luepke .............. Mary Carol Creadon 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jim Riley Irish Extra Layout ............... . Sports Copy Editor .... Marty Strasen ............... Kathleen McKernan Viewpoint Copy Editor . . Julie Collinge Photographer ........ Paul Oeschger Accent Copy Editor ... Mary Reynolds 
Th~ O~rvtr ( I 'P" ~'lll .! tUOO I '' puhh,hcJ \1onc.J.n throu)(h I ru.1J~ t'Xl't"PI dunnJit t·x.am ancJ \dl arum pt"fHJlh Th~ O~rv~r '' puhlt'tlu:d h\ tht· 'tlllknt,(Jitlw I nt\t'f'lt\ ot :\oue Dame omd ~.um .\t~ ·, <ollei(t' 
lb~ Obsrrv~r " .a nu·mht:r of Thlf' Associated Prt"ss. All n·prndlll'lton n~lu:o. an· re!rtt'r\ed 
Great traditions at Notre Dame do not end with football success 
As the Irish take the field against Michigan this weekend, many Notre Dame students, parents, friends and alumni will be looking for a revival of the tradition for which this university is so often noted -a winning football program. With the exit of a seemingly hexed Gerry Faust and the debut of godlike Lou Holtz, the hopes of the Irish are not unfounded. 
For the past five years, the Irish football squad never could seem to break out of the endless mire in which they wallowed. The members of the team and staff worked hard, but the chips never quite fell their way. Saturday, Sept. 13, 1986 may be the date that marks a new era, a new glorious winning tradition for Notre Dame football. 
However, lost in all of this hoopla about Irish football victory is the simple, overused word of tradition. Seemingly every writer who ever sits down to pen a story about Notre Dame mentions the great Irish sports legends of Knute Rockne and George Gipp; never overlooked are The Four Horsemen or the golden era of Ara. But people often limit the great tradition of Notre Dame to the gridiron alone, ignoring the myriad of tradi­tions upon which this school was built and nur­tured. 
Certainly, many of the great Irish traditions revolve around winning football programs; however, the tradition is hardly reserved for the victories themselves. There is the great tradition of the marching band's concert on the steps of the administration building on the morning of the games; there is the tradition of the Victory March and Notre Dame Our Mother being played after the games to many Notre Dame alumni, students and fans. There are the tailgaters, there is spirit and there is a sharing in the love for a university unlike any other in the world. 
A tradition of love for Notre Dame does not stop after football weekends, either. In the evenings during the fall when the band is marching across campus on its way to or from practice, it is amazing to see the number of people who stop walking to wherever they are going to watch and listen as the musicians strike up the Victory March. Despite the fact that this is my third year at Notre Dame, that song still brings goosebumps to my skin every time it is played; the Notre Dame Victory March is to me, as I am assured it is to many people, all of the tradition and glory of Notre Dame put into music and words. 
The tradition of the Notre Dame family's great spirit and zest also is evident in the everyday life on campus. Despite the fact that they complain about the bookstore's prices, most students have a least a small part of their wardrobe composed of Fightin' Irish shirts, shorts, shoes and other various paraphernalia. As gametime draws nearer and nearer this weekend, the stadium stands will 
Kevin Becker 
Managing Editor 

become a mosaic of green plaid pants and ND sweatshirts. 
-
All of these Irish traditions combine with Notre Dame's more sacrosanct rituals and maxims to make this university the special place that it ac­tually is. Regardless of the outcome of the game, the bells of Sacred Heart church will draw alumni, students and fans alike away from the playing field and into the heart of Notre Dame itself -its religious tradition. 
Even though many of the people on the campus this weekend will have been drawn here because of the excitement and glamour of the Notre Dame football weekend, they will leave with the realiza­tion that Notre Dame is so much more. Win or lose, the spirit ofNotre Dame will remain untainted and its tradition alive in the minds and hearts of those people who really understand its full rich­ness. 
Thanks to you... it works... forALLOFUS 
•
unitedway 

Comprehensive programs for persons with: 
Bulimia Nervosa Anorexia Nervosa Compulsive Overeating 
., 

~---~-~-~--------~-----~-~---~--------~------~-----------~ 
Friday, Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 3 
The Observer 
Authorities question man on airliner hijack 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Aut­horities questioned a man with a Libyan passport yesterday about last week's seizure ofa Pan Am jetliner, and sought a com­panion who ned into a Palestin­ian mission. 
Officials said a man identified as Salman Taraki was seized Wednesday at Islamabad airport in connection with the seizure of the Boeing 747 in Karachi last Friday. 
They said his Libyan passport appeared to be a forgery, but that they had no evidence against him yet. 
Twenty people were killed and more than I00 injured when the four hijackers of the Pan Am jet panicked and opened fired indis­criminately at the passengers and crew. 
Inspector Javed Mirza, who ar­rested Taraki. said that police were watching the Palestine Liberation Organization mission in Islamabad, the capital, for a man who had been traveling with Taraki. The man eluded aut­horities at the airport and went to the PLO mission, where police could not follow because of its diplomatic immunity. 
The government. ·meanwhile, announced that Air Marshal Shabbir Hussain Syed, the dep­uty commander of the air force had been appointed to investi­gate the takeover and the way officials handled it. 
It was the first official indica­tion that mistakes may have been made in ending the bloody standoff, which came when the airplane's auxiliary power system faltered and the gunmen began firing at their approximately 400 hostages. 
Obaidur Rehman, director general of the Federal Investiga­tion Agency, said that Taraki was arrested at the airport Wednes­day after arriving from Karachi. Rehman gave no details, but said the man had been returned to the southern port city for ques­tioning about the takeover of the giant jetliner. 
Taraki had been in Pakistan for about six weeks and authorities were trying to determine his ac­tivity during that time, Rehman said without elaborating. 
"He may have nothing to do with the hijacking." Rehman said. 
Taraki was thought to be Pal­estinian but was carrying a Libyan passport. he said. 
JUNIORS Interested in working on 

JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
Please pick up an application m the student activities office (3rd floor-LaFortune) or room 121 Breen­Phillips. All applications must be 
returned to Student Activities Office by 5:00, Friday, September 12. 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 

The Obseruer/Jef{ Otto
Our Mural Code paints the N.D. insignia on the walls of Alumni­Charles J. O'Neil, a 1954 graduate ofNotre Dame, Senior club. 
Israeli-Egyptian summit attempts to revive stalled Middle East peace 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Egypt -Prime Minister Shimon Peres and Pres­ident Hosni Mubarak held the first Israeli-Egyptian summit meeting in five years yesterday in an effort to revive the quest for Middle East Peace. 
The two leaders, dispensing with aides and interpreters, talked privately in English for several hours in this Mediter­ranean port. 
The two shook hands cordially as they met at the Ras ei-Tin presidential palace beside the Mediterranean Sea shortly after Peres arrived from Tel Aviv. Alexandria was the site of the last Israeli-Egyptian summit meet­ing. in August 198I between Egypt's Anwar Sadat and Israel's Menachem Begin. 
Moslem extremists assas­sinated Sadat two months later. 
Egypt is the only Arab nation with diplomatic relations with Is­rael, and any overture to the Jewish state is considered a po­litical gamble for Mubarak. 
During a working lunch at which the Israeli leader was the guest of Mubarak's prime mini-
Featuring 24 bulb beds with facial Unit. Our large, contoured beds are over 7feet long and provide a 360° tan. 2314So. Bend Ave.(next to Martins) Call for appointment 211~ 
Open 8·8 Mon-Frl 8-8 Saturday 
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDICAL SCHOOL TRIP 
Friday, October 3 
Meet with ND alumni and tour the medical school. 
Pick up applications in 201 Administration Building. Space limited to 30 pre-med students. 
Applications due September 19. 
Registration fee of $7.00 required. 
STUDENT· ALUMNI 
PRE-PROFESSIONAL RELATIONS 
SOCIETY GROUP 
ster, Aly Lutfy, Peres said: "New and fresh substance has to be introduced between our two peoples. Israel does not want to impose anything on Egypt. but both countries want to overcome the desert that lies between them." 
Peres' spokesman Uri Savir said there was no formal agenda for the meeting. Another Israeli official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that was by mutual consent. Peres is sched­uled to leave for home today. 
"Both sides wanted an open­ended dialogue," the official said. "We view this as a positive thing which indicates Egypt's wil­lingness to listen." 
Mubarak has said he envisions the summit as primarily a forum for discussion of the Palestinian question. 
Peres said before leaving Is­rael, "We shall not permit the peace process to die away or fade away, and we shall do whatever we can to bring life and spirit to the momentum for peace. 
Relations between the two countries hit bottom in 1982 with Israel's invasion of Lebanon. 
This summit, hailed as the beginning of warmer relations, was made possible by an agree­ment, signed Wednesday, to submit a nagging dispute over the 250-acre border enclave of Taba to interr1ational arbitration. 
Speaking at the working lunch, both Peres and Lutfy said the Pal­estinian issue would be dis­cussed during the summit. 
Peres said at the lunch that 
U.N. Security Council Resolu­tions 242 and 338 should serve as a basis for peace talks. But neither is acceptable to Palestin­ian leaders because both refer to the Palestinians as refugees and not a people with a right to self­determination. 
Peres said Israel is willing to discuss the idea of an interna­tional peace conference, an Arab proposal strongly supported by Egypt and Jordan but unattrac­tive to the United States and Is­rael because it would involve the Soviet Union. 
"The Palestinians have a right to participate in the determina­tion of their own future," Peres said, underscoring a tenet of the Camp David accords signed in 1978 by Israel. Egypt and the United States. 
~-----~------~----~ 
~ 
Friday, Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page4
The Observer 
Motorists safer in large autos, says insurance report 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON · Motorists are likely to be safer and face lower collision repair costs in large, four-door cars, station wagons and vans, according to an insur­ance industry report released yesterday. 
The study by the Highway Loss Data Institute, an affiliate of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, shows small 2-door models and many small or mid­size sport or speciality cars as having the worst injury and repair record. 
Many of those small cars show 
injury claim frequencies and 
repair losses at least .30 percent 
higher than average, while many 
large cars, station wagons and 
vans typically show 40 to 50 per­
cent better-than-average claim 
records, according to the analy­
sis. 
Government crash tests on a 
variety of cars over the years 
have shown little direct relation­
ship between car size and how 
well occupants are protected 
from serious injury.. 
But auto safety experts empha­
size that those test crashes were 
into a fixed barrier, which does 
not take into account the differ-


Raid 
continued from page 1 
see what the commander does." Between the raids on Marx street and Douglas and Ivy roads, State Excise Police issued I07 cita­tions, according to police records. 
Cottrell said excise police have conducted arrests with the assis­tance of undercover policemen. "The undercover officer goes in and witnesses a student selling cups for $I," he said. Cottrell added that a student selling cups can be charged with selling alco­hol to minors and fdr selling without a license. 
"So far, these (undercover) agents have not been charged for entrapment" Cottrell added. 
Cottrell said the police can easily track down parties that are in violation of the city noise or­dinance. 'The officers go to the scene and say 'The party's over, it's time to go,'" he said. Then the house or apartment owner will be delivered a citation for breaking the city noise or­dinance, Cottrell said. 
"If everyone cooperates, only one citation (for violation of the city noise ordinance) need be issued,". he said. "If not there could be arrests for public in­toxication, littering, minors drinking, serving minors, and so forth," he added. 
If the party becomes worse, Cottrell said, police may bring in dogs to help protect their own officers. He added this is only when the safety of the officers is in question. 
Even if a party is not in viola­tion of the city noise ordinance, Cottrell said excise police may still try to break them up if minors are drinking alcohol. He said this is true of scenarios where the party is closed and the party-goers are inside the house or apartment. 
Cottrell and Sgt. John McCul­lum also answered questions off. campus students had about crime at the Wednesday meet­ing. They said it is important for neighbors to get together and said they encouraged the stu­dents to get to know the people living near them. 
McCullum said that Notre 
Dame Prof. Art Quigley, chair­
man of the Northeast Neighbor­
hood Service Center, would like 
the students to meet their neigh­
bors at a later meeting. 
or sports car category, !he Mer­cedes .300 SD and the Cadillac Brougham 2D showed a lik­lihood of injury 45 to 49 percent below average. 
By comparison, most small 2­door models as well as many small 4-door cars showed signif­icantly higher chances of injury an<! substantially higher-than­average repair costs. 
Of 48 small 2-door or 4-door cars, 19 had injury losses of .30 percent or more above average and 17 had repair costs substan­tially above average. 
Among the worst in protecting passengers as well as incurring high repair costs were three Mit­subishi models-the Tredia, Cor­dia and Starion -the Nissan Pul­sar and 200 SX, Ford EXP, 2-door Toyota Corolla, and the Mercury Capri. 
Of the .37 large cars examined, including all models from station wagons to luxury cars, 25 pro­vided substantially better-than­average injury protection and 18 had substantially better-than­average repair costs. 
The highest collision. repair costs among all the cars included in the analysis went to Mitsubishi Starion, which had repair costs 
159 percent above average. The lowest was attributed to three cars -the Pontiac"Parisienne sta­tion wagon, Plymouth Voyager van and 4-door Mercury Gran<! Marquis -all of which had costs 45 percent below average. 
ences in size and weight among cars. A crash into a fixed barrier would be the same as a crash into another car of the same size traveling at the same speed. 
Most actual auto accidents do not occur that way. 
The Highway Loss Data In­stitute report compared the fre­quency of insurance claims and average repair costs .of 185 vehicles with adjustments made for factors such as driver charac­
teristics.  The  study  renects  
claims filed  on  198.3-84 model  
cars.  

The examination of claims "shows very wide variations in the injury and collision loss ex­perience of various vehicles on the nation's highways," the study concludes. 
Among small, non-specialty cars, the Saab 900 was shown to provide the best protection against injury -24 percent to .32 percent below average -but it also was found likely to have .31 
percent to 4 I percent higher 
repair costs, depending on whe­
ther it's a 2-door or 4-door 
model. 
Generally, however, the large cars had the best claims record. 
According to the insurance in­dusty analysis, a motorist in a 4-door Oldsmobile Delta 88, for example, is 41 percent less likely than average to be hurt in an ac­cident. Repair costs for the Delta 88 are 40 percent better than average. 
Similar top ratings were re­ported for the Buick LaSabre, Ford Crown Victory and a dozen mid-size and large station wagon passenger vans and large luxury or specialty cars. 
Among the best station wagon and van performers were the mid-size Volvo 240, and the large-size Pontiac Parisienne, Buick Electra and Mercury Grand Marquis. In the large luxury car 

"y,ASTA~ 

GOURMET PIZZA 
Welcome Back ND~MC Students! 



r---------------,
I $1.00 OFF II Coupon I 
1 Any Pizza Purchase _.1 
.. 
FREE DELIVERY! 
Pizza orders over $1 0 
~J 
4·11 :00 T·Th 4-1 :30 Fri, Sat 
2-9:00 Sunday 211 E. Day RD. 259-1900 259-1911 
211 
Thursday &Friday 18 and ,OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2om Thursday 9pm -3om Friday 
------------------~------­
$1.00 off entrance fee 

259·1900 

TOTAL DISCOUNT FOODS 
Go Irish! 
Beat Michigan! 
BUYERS MARKET PLACE 5901 N. Grape Road Mlshawaka,IN 

277-8694 


HOLD THAT SUMMERTANII 
DO IT ALL +condition in booth +tan in beds +relax on massage bed 
coli us at 277-7026
'MN-HAWA1&N 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road Mishawoka 


: .~ ..:. 
Friday, Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 5
The Observer 
' 


The Observer I Paul Oeschger 
Collecting raindrops? Neither rain nor a misshapen umbrella can dampen this N.D. students spirits' as he smiles on his way to class. Rain clouds made a brief visitation to campus yesterday but are expected to leave pleasant weather in their wake. 
A New Software Product that will Launch You onthe Roadto Success! 
• 
Comprehensive-covers every type of exam question 

• 
Screens with hints, review material and fully explained solutions for hundreds of problems 



• Timed tests simulating actual exam conditions 
• Instant feedback and personalized score analysis 
• 
Quick reference manual with review sections, memorization tables and glossaries 

• 
These techniques,designed by MBA's, have helped improve students' 


scores by as much as 250 points!! IBM-PC version in 5 diskettes. Apple lie version also available. Price: $99.95 (Includes postage). See your local dealer or contact: 
C\§1 Cornwell Systems, Inc. Phoenix, AZ 85080 P.O. Box 41852 (602) 869·0412 
Learning about yourself, dealing with problems, and growing with the changes In your lifeare Important parts of the Notre Dame experience. 
The Professional Staff of the University Counseling Center (UCC) 
INVITES YOU TO CONSIDER JOINING A GROUP 
The following groups will be offered to students during the Fall Semester: 
1. Everything You Wanted To Know About Relating To Other People But Couldn't Figure Out Alone· ·This weekly confidential therapy group Is 
designed for students who are struggling with Issues such as reaching out when you feel lonely & Isolated. geHing ciose to others and developing Intimacy, dealing with anger & conflict with others and balancing the need to be true to yourself with others wishes and expectations. TUESDAYS:3:3D-5 pm; Co-Leaders: Rita Donley & Tom Thompson 
2. The Adult Children of Alcoholic Parents group Is a confidential support group tor those students whose lives have been affected by the drinking of their parentis). Some Issues and topics that will be addressed Include: education about the disease of alcoholism/problem drinking and how members are affected; common char­acteristics of adult children of alcoholics; learning about the process of loving detachment from the problems but not the person; methods of forming healthy aHitudes and relationships; stress reduction. realistic goal-seHing and assertiveness training. First Meeffng: Tuesday, September 16, 4-Spm; Leader: Sally Coleman. 
Women's Support Group·· This weekly, confidential therapy group Is designed tor women who would like to explore Issues related to Identify, self-esteem, Independ­ence. relationships, assertiveness. anger,lntlmacy & self­acceptance. THURSDAYS: 3:3D-5pm; Co-Leaders: Chrlsffne Conway& Rita Donley 
4. 
Eating Disorder Group-This weekly, confidential therapy group Is designed for women with eating prob­lems. Common signs Include: depression, low self-esteem, fear of being/becoming obese, unusual eating habits and a preoccupation with food. WEDNESDAYS: 3:30-Spm; Co-Leaders: Mary Raeker & Linda Monroe. 

5. 
The Grief 8t Loss Group ··This Information and support group Is designed for students who have exper­Ienced a significant loss such as a death of a close friend 


parent, sibling, or other family member. 
Time: To Be Arranged; Leaders: Undo Monroe, Lauro lur111 
FOR INFORMATION AND HELP IN DECIDING ABOUT PARTICIPATING, CALL 239·7336 OR STOP BY MONDAY­FRIDAY, 9:00om-5:00pm AT UCC (3rd floor ofthe Student 
Health Center). 
Pinochet blasts Catholic Church and orders ousting of three priests 
Associated Press 
SANTIAGO, Chile -President Augusto Pinochet angrily criticized Chile's Roman Catholic Church, the United States and his political opponents yesterday in 
a speech that marked the  13th  
anniversary  of  the  coup  that  
brought him to power.  

As Pinochet was giving his na­tionally televised address, three French Catholic priests who had been detained and ordered ex­pelled following an assassina­tion attempt on Sunday were placed by police on an airliner to Rio de Janeiro. 
Pinochet also announced the government was suspending reconsideration of decrees ban­ning 3, 708 Chilean exiles from their homeland, and said he had signed a law to open voter registries by early next year for a 1989 plebiscite for which he is 
expected to seek armed forces nomination as the lone presiden­tial candidate. 
"Today, after suffering the most evil attack, I invoke Al­mighty God to permit me to con­tinue living to fight for the freedom of my country," Pinoc­het shouted at the end of his more than two-hour speech. 
"As long as He lets me, I will put all my energies to the service of this land," said the 70-year-old Pinochet who led a 1973 military coup that toppled elected Marxist President Salvador Allende and resulted in Allende's death.' 
Pinochet, wearing a white gen­eral's uniform, spoke inside an auditorium in downtown San­tiago before 3, 000 government officials, supporters and diplomats. 
At the same hour, about 30 people gathered around the tomb of Allende. Riot police sur-
General Mills, Inc. -presents­
"Finance and Controllership at Gerneral Mills." 

Tuesday, Sept. 16,1986 6:30 pm -9:30pm Upper lounge of the university club Seniors and Juniors Welcome Reception following the presentation 
/(/; ~:/' You'll see 
;t!(41/th • '
v,.~ e saVIDgs. 
CONTACT LENSES 

•Softmate Daily or Extended Wear 
$39 • 9 8 
Contact Lenses 
Daily wear Power~ +7.00 to -12.00 Extended wear Powers plano to -6.00 per pair 
•Tinted Contact Lenses 2 Pairs for 
Daily or 
$99 98
Extended Wear • 
Dausch & Lomb ::-;aturalTint.s or American l!vdron 
An eye exam is required at the time of purchase. Not valid on prior orders and may not be combined with any other offers or discounts. Offer ends September 27, 1986. 
"Our eyf!Wear prices are the lowest in lruiiana, arui our eye care quality is unsurpassed. That's a promise from the doctor." 

1111 E Ireland Road ... 291-4000 in the Broadmoor Plaza 506 W McKinley......258-SOOO in the K-Mart/Martin Center 

rounded the seaside cemetery in Vina del Mar, searched visitors and barred some journalists. 
Chilean newspapers said the expelled priests -Fathers Pierre DuBois, ·Jaime Lancelot and Daniel Caruette -had been ac­cused of "distributing written material inciting against the aut­horities." 
The three were seized in an army raid on their Santiago slum parish Monday and deported on the Interior Ministry's orders. 
Their arrest was prompted by the rocket and grenade attack Sunday that slightly injured Gen. Pinochet's left hand and killed five of his bodyguards, but offi­cials said none of the priests were considered a suspect in the attack. 
The government has blamed the Communist-backed Manuel Rodriguez Patriotic Front for the ambush near Santiago. 
Comment on Hofman invited 
Special to the Observer 
Faculty, staff, students and parents are invited to comment on the work ofProf. Emil Hofman as Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies over the last five years. 
Input is being solicited at this time because Article II of the fac­ulty manual states that the work of the Dean of the Freshman Year of Studies each five years. 
Those who wish to comment on Hofman's performance may send a letter to: Dean's Review Committee, clo Prof. John Der­went Department of Mathema­tics, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 
Letters should be sent by Oct. 
I. 
The review of Hofman will be conducted by a committee elected by the Academic Council. The committee, formed last spring. consists of Derwent Anne Marie Finch, a first year law student and Edward Kline, pro­fessor and chairman of English. It also includes Jerry Marly, as­sociate professor an·d assistant dean of the College of Engineer­ing. Thomas Swartz, professor of economics, and James Witten­bach, professsor of accoun­tancy. 
Clarification 
The front-page story on the resident assistants in yester­day's Observer was unclear. Kurt Petersen of Keenan Hall said he and Ann DeWald realized there were minors at the party, but never thought that their actions constituted furnishing alcohol to minors. 
CANCER. 
NOT 
KNOWING 
THE RISKS 
IS YOUR 
GREATEST 
RISK. 
t, 
.. 
... ~· . 

The Observer 
U.S. soldiers will remain in Bolivia to assist in battle against narcotics 
Associated Press 
LA PAZ, Bolivia-The 170 U.S. soldiers and six helicopters hel­ping to fight the drug trafficking in Bolivia will remain in the South American nation for 30 to 60 more days, the interior minister indicated Wednesday. 
Tile Americans were sched­uled to leave Sunday at the end of the two-month anti-drug cam­paign agreed upon last July by Bolivia and the U.S. government. 
The government says up to 90 percent of t11e drug trafficking in Bolivia has been halted since the 
Drug 
continuedfrom page 1 
made when the House: 
-Voted 296-I 12 to permit im­position of the federal death penalty for individuals involved in a continuing criminal enter­prise, who intentionally cause the death of another individual. The change was sponsored by Rep. George W. Gekas, R-Pa. 
-Decided, 237-137 to force the president to send military forces to U.S. borders to stop drug smuggling. and give them power to make arrests cases in in­stances where traffickers are un­der pursuit by authorities. Rep. Duncan Hunter. R-Calif., and Robinson, of Arkansas, pro­posed the change. 
-By a 259-153 tally, approved language that would permit use of improperly obtained evidence seized in warrantless searches, ficult experiences that reliance on military forces to accomplish civilian tasks is detrimental to both military readiness and the democratic process," he wrote. 
Justice Department spokes­man Terry Eastland reacted negatively to the increased mili­tary role, commenting. "The attorney general has expressed his own misgivings about such legislation and has said that any such legislation should at least make this a matter of discretion for the president instead ofbeing mandatory." 
"They can only arrest in hot 
pursuit." Hunter said in arguing 
for his amendment. "They can't 
kick in doors." 
Rep. Trent Lott, R-Miss., said the plan was constitutional. add­ing. "If this is not defending the shores, then I don't know what is." provided officers acted in good faith. Sponsored by Rep. Dan Lungren, R-Calif., the change is not limited to drug cases. The Supreme Court already has made a "good f<:lith" exception in cases where warrants were ob­tained. 
-Voted 242-171 for an amend­ment that would give state and local law enforcement agencies a bonanza in federal grants to fight illegal drugs. The original bill would have allocated $300 million for the grants in fiscal years 1987 and 1988, but the change, sponsored by Rep. Charles Rangel.' D-N.Y., would raise the figure to $1.3 billion. The state-local matching share would be reduced from 50 per­cent in the original bill to I 0 per­cent. 
The federal death penalty, while still on the books, has been unenforceable because Congress -unlike many states ­has failed to approve constitu­tional procedures to carry it out. 
"The amendment was carefully drafted -it will pass constitu­tional muster," Gekas said. "There can be no ultimate war on drugs if we do not pass our ultimate weapon." 
American troops arrived to help traffickers taken a forced vaca­
local police uncover clandestine tion waiting for the raids to end." operations in the jungles of tile Beni region. Edward Rowell. U.S. Ambassa­
Interior Minister Fernando Bar­dor to Bolivia, said recently, "We thelemy said his government cannot pressure traffickers for had not officially requested a one or two months and then continued U.S. presence, but he leave." said if the Americans left now it Barthelemy said tile American 
would "provide drug traffickers soldiers, six Black Hawk helicop­with a truce during which time ters and communications equip­they could arm themselves and ment would remain at least 30 
return with greater force." days but no more than 60 days. He said that would be long 
Said one U.S. official. speaking enough to train Bolivians to use on condition ofanonymity, "Most the equipment the U.S. govern­cocaine labs have shut down and ment would provide. 
~INDUsfRiALiANQUEf~~ 
Wed., Sept. 24 
Monogram Room of the ACC 
§ 6:00 Mixer 6:30 Dinner ~ 23 companies attending 2 Cost: $5.00 § Reservation due Monday, Sept. 15 
~~!eJ~~1!!!~~.[ 

Friday, Saturday, September 12-13, 1986 -page 6 
, 

The most exciting
few hours 
you'll spend allweek. 
Run. Climb. RappeL 1\:avigate. Lead. And develop the confidence and skills you won't get from a textbook. Enroll in Armv ROTC as one of your electives. Get the facts today. BE ALI. YOU CAl\ BF. 
Interested? Call lieutenant Flanagan or lieutenant McKnight 239-6264 
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAININL--: L RPS 

The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 7 


Two Resident Assistants were relieved of their positions this week. Although we realize that a mistake 
·was made, we feel that this mistake does not merit the punishment received. We resent the fact that the example made by The Admin­istration of these two people affects us through the loss of two fine leaders in our residential life. We would like to express our regret that Notre Dame has lost its perspective on the complete Catholic education. 
The Concerned Students of Keenan and Lewis Halls 

The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986 -page 8 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ © 1986 JTO ENTERPRISES ~ 
A board game about the ~ University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary•s College ~ 
• • .AND IT'S AVAILABLE NOW!~ at the Notre Dame ~ 
and Saint Mary's Bookstores.~ 
~~~~~~~~~~~ 

They were waering masks of Ronald Reagan, left, and Jimmy Carter. 
up the Fifth Third Bank in Mt. Washington. 
Reagan decries U.S. drug 'culture of license ' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Reagan, preparing to unveil new measures to combat drug abuse, decried yesterday "a culture of license that encourages drug use, promising kicks but deliver­ing only despair and destruc­tion." 
The president spoke to 150 business leaders a few hours before going into a lengthy Cabinet meeting to receive recommendations for steps to curb drug abuse, both on the trafficking and consumption
:..
:, side. 
White House spokesman Larry Speakes said that Reagan would decide on the recommendations this week and disclose some of his decisions in a nationally broadcast speech that he and wife Nancy will make Sunday. 
White House spokesman Al­
Cabinet meeting, "The president 
has made no decisions. He took 
it all under advisement." 
Brashear declined to say what 
recommendations were made. 
The first lady, joining in the .buildup for the Sunday speech, traveled to Harpers Ferry, W.Va. yesterday for an anti-drug picnic and rally with school children and adults. 
In his speech to chiefexecutive 
officers of corporations, Reagan 
said he and the first lady would 
be "addressing the nation with 
an urgent message: that now is 
the time to stand up and get in­
volved and do something about 
drugs." 
"We must hold the sellers and 
users of illegal drugs account­
able for their actions. We must 
seek ways to help users quit 
using and accept no excuses. 
"None of us can rest while our children are still prey to pushers and a culture of license that en­courages drug use, promising kicks but delivering only despair and destruction," said Reagan, who last month took a drug test to lead the way in his adminis­tration's quest to encourage drug testing in the workplace. 
Speakes said the recommen­dations being presented to the president. which were prepared by the White House Domestic Policy Council, were mostly unanimous, but that some of them gave him a choice among options. 
"He will, I assume, probably take them under advisement and make a decision on the options before the weekend," Speakes said of Reagan. 
~----------------~
1 5 Go Irish! Beat Michigan! £? 1 
lg ~I
18 YOGI'S YOGURT gl
I I
Football Fan Special 
I I
25~ Off Anymedl"moooe~dl"' 
I St. Rd. 23, NE corner of Ironwood (Across from Martins) Expires 9-19·86 .. 
1\ 
219-872-2114 Open 7 Dey• per wHk 
MICHIANA STABLES 
Tr811 AIM  •  Pony Aldea  •  H•y Aldea  
• Leaont • 808fdlnt • Tl'lllnlng  U.S. 12 (Eett of Mlchlgen City) MICHIGAN CITY, IN 41310  

Did you sign up 
to write for the News Department at Student Activities Night? 
Then youll want to be at the first meeting for new writers. 
Meet at 7 p.m. Tuesday at The Observer's new offices 
on the third Door of the LaFortune Student Center. ews Staff and Staff Reporters are strongly encouraged to attend. Questions? Call Mark Pankowski or Tripp Baltz at 239-5313. 
Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page9

on the coffin during burial ceremonies on Wednesday at a Jewish cemetary in the city. More than I,000 mourners attended the fu­neral. held in the bombed-out synagogue. 
RASTA 
continuedfrom page 1 
the concert demanded much of the attention ofRASTA members. "Beside the fact that we were restricted in our numbers, we had to run the concert, move equipment on and off the stage, work the lights and distribute the tickets," he said. 
RASTA was banned on campus due to their failure to comply with the rules outlined in DuLac, according to Joni Neat· director of student activities. 
"They did not take appropriate actions when alcohol was being obviously used," she said. "They should have closed the event." 
Neal stated that a security report from RASTA's concert on May 3, 1986, revealed evidence of alcohol and drug use. A letter sent by Neal, dated July 3, 1986, 
Yourbasic 
problem: 
Physics Genetics Statistics Calculus Complex Numbers Analytical Geometry Stress Analysis Organic Chemistry Probability Gaussian Thmsfonnations Differential Equations Titrations Electromagnetics Thennodynamics Fluid Mechanics Etc., etc., etc. ••• 
YourBASIC solution: 

Introducing BASICALC: The new Texas Instruments programmable calculator. 
Now there's a programmable scientific calculator that solves even the most complex math, engi­neering and science problems in a BASIC way. The TI-74 BASICALC. 
Unlike most other programmable calculators that require you to learn a new, complicated system of keystroke commands-in effect, a new 
Your basic specs: 
• 
Operates as a calculator or BASIC computer 

• 
8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM 

• 
70 built-in scientific functions 

• 
Optional software cartridges for mathematics and statistics 

• 
Optional PASCAL language cartridge 

• 
Optional printer and cassette interface 


©t986TI. 
programming language-the TI-74 BASICAI.C allows you to use the BASIC language program­ming you already know. 
But don't let the BASICALC's ease of opera­tion fool you. It also has more calculating power than comparably-priced programmables. And a variety of options, like software cartridges, are available that make it even more powerful and convenient. 
Stop by and see the TI-74 BASICALC for yoursel£ In basic terms, what it really offers you 
i> a ba<gain. TEXAS .., 
INSTRUMENTS 
stated, "Four security reports cited use of alcohol by concert organizers and members of the Rugby team (hired as security). Drug use was cited through the smell of marijuana and actual 
confiscation  of  mirrors,  razor  
blades,  a  marijuana  pipe,  
tobacco papers. etc."  

Neal said the University's deci­sion to disband RASTA was not the result of four or five people caught using illegal stimulants, but by a "fairly obvious'; use by a significant number of people. 
Reynolds denied that the prob­lem was as obvious as is claimed. "As the concert proceeded, there seemed to be no obvious problem," said Reynolds. 
Neal said that the group was irresponsible in not addressing the use of alcohol and drugs. "We're not accusing the holders of the event of alcohol or drug violations." said Neal. "We're holding them to their irrespon­siblity in coordinating the event." 
Neal said that RASTA agreed in writing to abide by University policies outlined in du Lac when reserving Stepan Center, the site of the concert. The security report tells of a "plain" use of alcohol and drugs. both of which are illegal on this campus, said Neal. 
The final decision to abolish RASTA was made by Father David Tyson, vice president of student affairs, said Neal. She said the case was referred to Student Af­fairs after the directors of RASTA denied the security report. 
Tyson couldn't be reached for comment yesterday. 
Reynolds said that she felt that Student Affairs over-reacted when they decided to disband the organization. Based on RASTA's past record and the groups purpose. she said a com­munity service projeet or some like punishment would have been appropriate. 
Neal said that she felt the Uni­versity's policy was realistic. "Of all the student groups that hold activities we have never had this problem," she said. 
Referring to the Charity Ball and the beach dance, Neal said, "Only a small minority used al­cohol." 
The letter sent by Neal to RASTA said that the group shall no longer act as a group on or offcampus. Neal said that RASTA could appeal the decision. She said an appeal would problably involve a re-evaluation of the case by Tyson. 
Evers indicated that RASTA will appeal. 
According to Neal the Rugby club was not disbanded but reprimanded for alcohol viola­tions. 
NOW HIRING! 
Full & part time help. all positions open. Apply within at NOBLE ROMAN'S 
16533 Cleveland Road 


l 
I 
I 

View~_o i_n_________________ ......pa_.g_e_IO
___ __t 
F.rid·a·y--S-at.ur.d.ay_._s.ep.te.m.b.er_l_2-_1_3._1_98_6_­
ND, Maine victims of second-hand information 
The title read "The Green Grass ofNotre Dame", a curious but accurate headline when considering the endless sprinkling and maintenance, I thought. The Ameri­can University newspaper editorial. though, was not about sprinklers; its sub­ject has become my own editorial about m isperceptions. 
Scott Bearby 
but wait~ there's more 
The author chose Notre Dame's system of rules and compared it to those ofAmer­ican University, where, according to the article, they have "complete freedom to have radical frat parties, protest against the firing of a teacher, hold rallies for South Africa, sleep with anyone in anybody's dorm room and even walk on the grass" if they want to. 
However, in comparing lifestyles the author uses information which he admits is "secondhand." This is a dangerous tool and the end result was a Notre Dame I didn't even recognize. True, we don't have the ability to legally "sleep with anyone in anybody's dorm room," but we did protest the removal of a hall rector last year, held rallies on South Africa, and let's not overlook the alcohol policy rebel­lion of the not-too-distant past. And, yes, we can even generally walk on the grass when we want to. The parties? Well. ..we do what we can. 
Information becomes distorted secondhand and easily becomes twisted to fit the need. Our parietals rules were made even more severe when it was said "no members of the opposite sex are per­mitted in dorm rooms" (at any time). The author further cited a case where brother and sister were kicked out of school when they fell asleep in the same room. Despite the quirks in the policy, I would hope the administration would find it possible not to expel them. 
No, Notre Dame is not noted for regular protests. But the editorial focused on an unidentified rally which was broken up because students were protesting on the grass. The author must not have been around for Saturday afternoon sporting events on the quads or even weekend alumni invasions when the grass is fair game. 
The misperceptions in everyday life are everywhere; if the facts are not exactly as you need them, exaggerate. Not only is Notre Dame the victim, but the problem extends throughout the world and, unfor­tunately, even in the media. 
Take, for example, the tiny town of Waterville, Maine. The town's reputation suffered a blow this summer after Parade Magazine ran an article on child prostitu­tion which focused on Waterville and other selected cities. 
It seems Parade obtained second hand information from a West Virginia Criminal Justice Department handbook which cited the problem of child prostitution existing frcim Waterville, ME to Ketchikan, AK. Using this information, the magazine apparently staged "a dramatization", ac­cording to the Parade managing editor. The dramatization consisted ofa 15-year-
The misperceptions in everyday life are everywhere; if the facts are not exactly as you need them, exaggerate. 
old model. in mini-skirt. on the streets of Waterville. One of the staged photos then ran on the front cover of the publication with photos taken of real child prostitutes from New York City and Los Angeles un­der the title "Kids for Sale". 
In the photo credits, there was no in­dication that the Waterville photo was indeed staged. Parade, according to the Waterville mayor, never bothered to talk to anyone in the surrounding area of the town to see whether child prostitu­tionlexploitation was a problem. Instead. the magazine claimed to have talked with "an unidentified police officer," not the most solid of sources. 
Parade went ahead and staged the dramatization to prove a point that sym­bolically child prostitution exists from coast to coast. An issue as serious as this 
P.O. Box Q 
RASTA ban because of alcohol abuse ironic 
Dear Editor: 
It is ironic that the University allows the student group RASTA to be banned from existence because of "alcohol and drug abuse at a RASTA concert last year." Al­cohol abuse by· fans at football games is rampant. Abolish football games? No way. The "tradition" would never be al­lowed to end. Besides, it is okay for con­tributing alumni and alumnae to abuse alcohol. What would Notre Dame do with­out all of the donation? 
A student organization created to help alleviate.world hunger is now gone. How appropriate that Notre Dame, a Catholic institution, bans a student group created to help feed the starving while alcohol abuse at Notre Dame football games con­tinues. 
Joseph Acosta Notre Dame Student 
Fairness called for 
in recent RA firing 
Dear Editor: 
I hate doing this, writing this letter. For one thing most letters end as ammunition for comic quips by cynics over lunch, and letters like this usually spur nothing of value except a frenzy of anti­administration rhetoric that cannot get through the brick walls of the Adminis­tration Building. 
Most importantly, however, I am sad­dened writing this letter, because it means that another knee-jerk reaction by the Office of Student Affairs has unfairly and albeit ridiculously removed Anne DeWald and Kurt Petersen from their R.A. posts for a trifle. This trifle concerned an off-campus party swooped down upon by Indiana State Police and Notre Dame Se­curity. What Security was doing there, I have no idea, but that is another ques­tion. 
I cannot understand either why anyone would wish to be an R.A.; they seem to be more and more mere policeman for the administration. But I realize that in a community the size of Notre Dame laws must rule, and these rules must in turn be enforced. Communities should have quick and standard punishments for the laws broken, but Notre Dame dares to pose as more than a simple community and calls itself a family. A family should have more than a standard punishment; each as must be considered on its own merits. Leniency can be shown when ap­propriate. But no leniency is needed or appropriate in Kurt and Anne's case, only fairness and common sense. Now they have lost their jobs and their rooms and perhaps have to move off-campus. 
I cannot understand the rationale be­hind the administration's approach to punishment. Who are they trying to impress with their hard line? I'm fairly certain the police wouldn't care if Kurt and Anne were reinstated. And Ijust can't see an uproar by the South Bend com­munity or any alumnus for that matter. 
Is Student Affairs trying to impress the high priests of the administration with their toughness in dealing with students? I believe the administration's policy is not to interfere in disciplinary matters. I think that must be right, or else a number of students who were unfairly punished would have found their sentences over­turned. I'm sure we each have our favorite case of the Student Affairs' injustice. I don't know who's supposed to be im­pressed here by Student Affairs' hard line, but I'm sure the students would be im­pressed by a little mercy in this particular case. 
I guess I haven't said any thing new in this letter, and most likely this letter will deserves thorough investigation. however, notjust symbolism. Parade had no real evidence that ild prostitution oc­curs in Waterville, according to the Water­ville mayor. 
Unfortunately, having "no real evidence" does not stop people, even reputable publications, from sometimes straying from the facts in order to prove a point. 
At the end of the American University piece on Notre Dame, the writer tells the reader to "take a step back and compare" the view of Notre Dame, as presented by him, to American University. The Parade Magazine piece leaves with the impres­sion that serious social problems in Waterville compare with those in New York City and Los Angeles. A few assump­tions and misplaced facts, and myths are started. 
Before going out to prove a point, we all have an obligation to think about from where the information comes. Is it secondhand? Is it reliable? 
The argument may be won in the short run with inaccurate information, but in the long run someone will catch on and the real facts will be discovered. 
Communication is probably the single most important part of our lives. Unfor­tunately, miscommunication is as well. Be perceptive of the misperceptions. 
Scott Bearby is a junior govern­mentiALPA major and is Viewpoint Editor. 
be ignored by all except those students chuckling over it between bites of their cheeseburgers. I have a feeling Student Affairs will make no comment about this and other letters about this case, but if they were to make a statement, it might read as vaguely as the following: the stu­dents have no idea of our position and implications involved here. If they did, if the students could see from our vantage point and view the whole picture, then 
the student body could understand our actions. 
I've seen too much and I hope the stu­dents won't take much more. 
Sean Callahar Off-campus 

I AMAlONE... AOR/FT... 
/A/eLL, 7HAT'5
RiJATING ... I GAP1 
IT. WHAT lXJ YOU
I GO UN/?CR. IT15 
THINK, MIOIAEL '?
/?AI«. I AMAWN&. 
I /?1&. I 
Campus quote 
"An impossible dream is only impossible if all you do about it is dream." 
Lou Holtz "The Offensive Side ofLou Holtz" 1978 

--------------~ -----~ 
---------------~----------~ 
\TielVJ?.~()~i~ll~t~------------------------------------~~~------------F_ri_da_y_-s_a_t~_d_a_y_,s_e_~_e_m_be~r~l-2-_13_,_•_98_6_-__Pa_g_e__II 
Reminder 
Question of the week: 
As a new year of social activity begins, there must be stu­dent input on what events they would like to see on cam­pus. Students have complained of lack of variety and events uninteresting to the campus in previous years. What would you suggest be done to get a greater variety of activities and to increase participation in campus events? What type of activities would you like to see? 
Viewpoint will be focusing on one timely campus, national or international issue each Monday in the "Question of the week" sec­tion. We would like you to address these issues. 
Responses must be between 75 and 100 words and must list name, major, hall and year. 
Viewpoint will print as many legitimate responses as space allows each Monday. In the event that all submissions cannot be printed, those appearing in Viewpoint will be representative ofall responses. 
"Question of the week" responses must bE received by 5 PM on the Friday befon responses are scheduled to run. 

P.O.BoxQ 
DeWald, Petersen see incongruity in policy 
Dear Editor: 
We would like to thank those students and faculty who have given us so much support and kindness these past few days. We are truly grateful for everyone's concern. 
Even the Observer showed great pa­tience and tact for our delicate situation. We would, however, like to rectify one misunderstanding. Yesterday's article stated that we nev~r thought that anyone at the party was urjlerage. Obviously, we knew some students were minors, but our point remains that our action simply did not seem wror1g at the time. We were simply helping our friends as people have done hundreds of times before. Granted, ignorance is no excuse, but it should be given some l:Onsideration since we never intended to violate the law or harm anyone. We fully realize some retribution was necessary, but the extreme action of the administration baffles our sense of 
justice. If a child steals a piece of candy, you do not cut off his hand. We feel there is an incongruity between the University's claim of community and family and their often harsh and abrupt actions. 
Although the student body often be­comes irritated, it rarely becomes active. By Monday, this issue will be forgotten as the Michigan game will come to the fore. Then, only three people-Mr. Goldrick and the two of us-will retain the bitter and distasteful memories of this week. We are still wondering whether it had to end this way. 
Kurt Petersen Anne DeWald 
Distrust of students evident in termination 
Dear Editor: 
Every so often we students are witness to a miscarriage of justice and common sense so extraordinary as to set our heads spinning. The parietals flop of last fall comes to mind, for example. A few days ago, however, the office ofJohn Goldrick set a new standard of foolishness. 
Both Kurt Petersen and Anne DeWald were told that they were being removed as R.A. 's from Keenan and Lewis respec­tively and that they would have to vacate their rooms. Why? It seems that at an off-campus party that some of Kurt's friends were having. both Kurt and Anne were discovered distributing cups to twenty-year-old students. Though neither had been drinking at all and though nei­ther had any marks on their fine academic and community records and though the police themselves saw fit only to ticket 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer is the mdependent newspaper publiShed by the students of the Un1vers1ty of Notre Dame duLac and Sam! Mary's College. It does not necessar~ly reflect the pollc1es of the administration of either institution. The news 1s reported as accurately and ObJeCtively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the op1n1on of the a maJOrity of the Ed1tor1al Board Commentaries. letters and the Inside Column presenl the v1ews of the11 authors. Column space is available to all members of the the commun1ty and the free express1on of varymg opi­nions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
The search continues for next ND President 
As most of us know, or will come to know, this is the last year of Father Ted Hesburgh's illustrious career as the Pres­ident ot the University of Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh has held this post for over three decades. He will be long­remembered. 
Brian Broderick 
sincerely yours 
Of course a replacement must be cho­sen to fill the shoes of Father Ted. The Board of Trustees has been scrambling to come up with a worthy successor. Soon puffs of white smoke will be seen rising from our golden dome signaling the end of a long. hard search. 
The Board ofTrustees has a mammoth­size task in front of it. It is every student's obligation to help this Board in its search. (Lord knows that any Board which raises an already exhorbitant tuition to greater amounts needs help.) I have prepared what in my view, could be nine possible successors to the post of the Presidency. 
Obviously, my first choice has to be Mr. Lee lacocca. Though he has repeatedly denied his candidacy for any Presidency, this job may have a certain appeal. First ofall he could get the press of of his back and more importantly he could use this post as another self-promotional cam­paign. Why, it could be bigger than the Statue of Liberty nonsense! 
My second choice is a little closer to home. Who could be better than Lou Holtz, the head football coach of the Fighting Irish? He could make anything look good. Just think, if his boyhood dream was to coach Notre Dame, why ttJe Presidency must have been at least eighth or ninth on his list. There lies the prob­lem; taking the position of President would be a tremendous step down for Mr. Holtz. 
Third on the possible list of candidates is the Holy Father himself, PopeJohn Paul 
and not arrest them, the administration decided that they must both forfeit their jobs and the room and board money that serves as payment to R.A.'s. Many some­how "privileged" students have been pun­ished less for more. 
The only proper response from stu­dents is disgust. Such a severe punish­ment for such a minor infraction is, to reasonable people, unthinkable. Just what sort of R.A.s does this place want? Obviously not responsible, intelligent, concerned individuals. The decision stinks but is, I suppose, just another reflection of the pervasive distrust of stu­dents so evident here. This distrust ex­tends from the Dome into the Security office, bookstore, Credit Union and dorms. To bring bright, sensitive Catholic men and women to Notre Dame and then to treat them as Kurt and Anne have been is simply and clearly wrong. 
Tom Szromba Off-campus 
RASTA raises $2,400, donates funds to cause 
Dear Editor: 
On May 3, 1986 Rally Against Starvation of Notre DametSaint Mary's held a benefit concert at Stepan Center. The concert was the culmination of a year's hard work, the last of 23 cultural, educational and fund-
General Board 
Ed1tor·ln·Ch1el Manag1ng Ed1tor 
V1ewpo1nt Editor Sports Ed1tor Accent Ed1tor Sa~nt Mary's Editor News Ed1tor News Ed1tor 
II (J.P. the deuce to his friends). He is scheduled to be in the United States in 1987. That will start the old rumor mill flying. I bet. His problem, which almost disqualifies him, is the opposite of Lou's. It would, in all respects, be too big of a leap for the Pope. 
The fourth choice is a darkhorse at best. Yes, Bob Hope is getting a bit old (though he is still younger than hisjokes), but he still would make a fine President. His gag writers could rewrite Du Lac, if they haven't already. And we all know that Bob's extensive travel schedule fits right in with the legacy of Father Ted. 
Hey, I know.. what about Casey Kasum? Everybody loves Casey. This man is everywhere. You thought you had heard enough of him on America's Top Forty. Guess again. This guy appears on televi­sion and his voice seems to be used for at least 90% of the ads that appear on television and radio. Yeah, and Dick Clark could be his Vice-President. Boy, what a visible duo. We could produce our own television right here on campus -"Notre Dame students pick the ugliest monu­ment on campus", or the "Student's Choice Awards for the biggestjerk in the administration." 
John Goldrick would be an interesting candidate for President. All of the stu­dents could march around with copes of Du Lac close to their breast. Mr. Goldrick could then achieve that ultimate power ofcontrol over the lives of students. Your first mistake could be your last. 
Other possibilities include Jerry Lewis (think of the fundraisers), Paul Schaeffer (the 2 man for too long), or even Don Adams (agent 86 has been out of work for too long). You see the possibilities are endless. I urge you, however, to send your suggestions to the Board of Trus­tees. The issue must be resolved quickly. 
Brian Broderick is a junior and an Amer­ican government mqjor. He is a regular Viewpoint columnist. 
ra1smg events. For those of you who worked on or attended the concert, on behalf of Rally Against Starvation I'd like you to know that it was a success. 
Last year Rally Against Starvation set out to educate the people of Notre Dame and St. Mary's about both the difficulties that sub-Saharan Africa is now experienc­ing and also the rich culture that it has to offer. The concert was our main fundraising event, and as such was a great success. We raised $2,400 at the concert and that money has been sent to CODEL (Coordination in Development) to be used on particular local development projects in sub-Saharan Africa. The money we have sent was much appreci­ated and much needed. CODEL is an ef­ficient and well-respected organization, and the money will be used wisely. 
I would like to extend our thanks to those who attended the concert last May or supported Rally Against Starvation in 
·other ways last year. It is because of you that we were able to help in this small way. May we continue to recognize how lucky we are and how much compassion for and co.:>peration with developing na­tions is needed in our world today. May we remember why we attended the con­cert last spring -not for ourselves, but for others. May we continue, as groups and as individuals, to rally against starva­tion until there is no more need to rally. 
Colleen Cotter 
Rally Against Starvation 
Joe Murphy Bus~ness Manager. .... Eric Scheuermann Kev1n Becker Controller ............. Alex VonderHaar Scott Bearby ProduCtion Manager. .. Chris Bowler Denn1s Cort~gan Photography Manager .. ... James Carroll Mary Jacoby AdvertiSing Manager. .. Anne M. Culligan Marg1e Kersten Systems Manager. .. Shawn Sexton Tr1pp Baltz GraphiC Arts Manager. . .. Mark Weimholt Mark Pankowski OCNManager ...... Francis X. Malone 
Founded November 3, 1966 

-~-~--­
Notre Dame Victory .March 
Rally sons of Notre Dame: Sing her glory and sound her fame, Raise her Gold and Blue And cheer with voices true: Rah, rah, for Notre Dame We will fight in. ev-ry game, . Strong of heart and true to her name We will ne'er forget-her And will cheer her ever Loyal to Notre Dame 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high, Shake down the thunder from the sky. What though the odds be great or small? Old Notre Dame will win over all, While her loyal sons are marching Onward to victory. 

1 
~ I I 
• j 
~~---~--~ ---~ ~-­
....... -· ............ ,. ............. ~ .-.-.................... --... _. .....'ft. ......._ .... ·-.--'• • ·-... -................... -.................................... -.. -...... ~ 
. -------... . . -.... -.. -, , -........ -----~ ..... -----.......... -.-.. .... 
Accent 
Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986 -page 14 

Great pacifists are faithful to the end 
Father Robert Griffin 
letters to a lonely God 
The week before last. I wrote an ill­considered sentence that sounded like a cheap shot. The words I regret were: "Thomas Merton now sounds very dated, and it's been a long, long time since Daniel Berrigan was any real help." 
One of Fr. Berrigan's admirers -a Notre Dame graduate named Tom ­wrote to tell me that Berrigan, as a peace advocate. was a continuing help and inspiration to him and a number of other young people. Tom then went on to describe his recent attendance at a demonstration protesting nuclear weapons, to which the police came to bash in heads and make arrests. 
I could have told Tom that such con­frontations were useless and uni­mpressive in the 1980s and that Ber­rigan, if he inspires the clashes with the cops, seems like an unwanted ghost from a bygone era. I could have told Tom that dents in his head and a year in jail weren't going to bring the world a second closer to nuclear dis­armament. I could have given Tom a lot of unwanted advice, if I hadn't figured out that what I needed to say was: ''I'm sorry for shooting off my mouth. I'm sorry for taking a cheap shot at one of the giants." Warfare has always been stupid. Nuclear warfare is madness multiplied to infinity. Who am I to write a job description for a professional pacifist? 
The great pacifists have never been afraid to make the rest of us feel un­comfortable. They frighten us by their intensity; their honesty makes them seem irritable when the world wants nattery. All of us, they say, lie, cheat and destroy to prevent our idealism from becoming the reality which will save us from ruin. 

Berrigan annoys our age because he seems a nag, hanging on to the Viet­nam rituals as though unwilling to ad­mit that those heady times of war protest .are over for good. The go­getters for social justice have all been nags. I could write a catalogue of the nags who have worked to save the chil­drell, liberate the women, bringjustice to the minorities, deliver the slaves out of Egypt. Archbishop Tutu is accom­plished at nagging; that's why we are anxious to turn him o'ff. disbelieve him, discredit his witness. 
On the other hand, so many good 
men and women lack any real convic­
tion: they join a movement, lend their 
name to a cause, or write a check; then, 
becoming bored, they turn into 
dropouts. That's why Berrigan is such 
a solid gold hero: he never drops out. 
He stays faithful to the end which is 
nowhere in sight. an honest Christian 
hating hypocrisy as the sickness of the 
country. When they read his obituary, 
Catholics will finally admit. "He was 
bigger than life," whatever that un­
revealing phrase may mean. 
Tom, in his letter, compared the priests critical of Berrigan to that gen­eration of priests who remained silent when Christ was condemned. After Berrigan, he seems to say, a good priest is hard to find. A number of members are complaining that it's not easy to know any more who the heroes are in the Catholic Church. When Rome has a shootout with the theologians, some of the good guys look like bad guys, and some of the alleged villains take on the appearance of angels of light. 
Believe me, I have a healthy respect for the Church. When God created the world, so they say, He took a breath as big as a circus tent. When He decided to begin a Church, He must have drawn an even deeper breath, be­cause the Church in its mission would be opposed by anti-Christ. and the gates of hell would try to prevail against it. When you hear priests and nuns sounding as permissive as Dr. Ruth, you doubt that they represent the kind of Church that Almighty God had in mind. 
Yet. in a shootout. you don't know who the winners arc until the dust settles in a century or two. Loyalty tells you that the fellows wearing white as the team color are the champions; at least you must treat Ihem as such until you sec how much egg they have on their faces. 
In London this summer, I saw the statue of one of the early reformers who died as a martyr. His crime was translating the Bible into the English language. As he was perishing in the names, he prayed out loud that the Word of God would soon be read throughout the kingdom. His prayer was quickly answered: a year later, the king ordered a copy of the vernacular Bible to be placed in every parish church. It can be argued that the Reformers did more harm than good with their bootlegged versions of Holy Writ; yet the ultimate effect was to make the Church honest: in the wake of Protestant questioning, the Church had the grace to reform itself. 
Since Vatican II, Catholics have been as zealous as the Protestants in their fidelity to the study of Holy Scripture, and the heroes of the Reformation arc now honored as our heroes too. A Church that knows its New Testament beginnings and the subsequent tra<li­
tion is, presumably, the kind ofChurch 
that the Lord has in mind. None of the growth in truth and grace has been easy or uncomplicated. St. Athanasius was excommunicated by practically every bishop he ever met. Yet the .Nic~~n creed, which he favored in op­position to the Arians, is now recited 
at every Sunday Mass. 
In reporting the sad little passion 
play that took place this summer be­
tween the Old World and the New, the 
secular newspapers loaded the dice: 
"The Romans toss another Christian 
to the lions as millions faithfully cheer 
his defeat. The gallery loyal to Caesar 
turn their thumbs down on the Amer­
ican underdog in the Circus Maximus." 
The headlines, to be honest. should 
have read: "Christians versus Chris­
tians." It would be sentimental to add, 
"They're having a lover's quarrel," be­
cause in matters thcological,oc/ium 
enters in. As a loyal Catholic, I'm 
waiting to sec if the opera is over 
before the fat lady sings. The Old 
World and the New World may keep 
each other honest to God; or the other 
shoe may be dropped as a signal that 
the jig is up: "Roma /ocula est. Causa 
{inila e.'il." Martin Luther, before the 
Diet of Worms, said: "Here I stand. I 
can't do anything else. God help me! 
Amen." The Holy Ghost must know He 
has His work cut out for him when He 
hears the same German prayer rising 
from both sides of the bargaining 
tal>le. 
In the controversies of the 'HOs. so 
far as I know, lkrrigan keeps his 
peace. That's what I meant when I 
wrote that it's been a long time since 
he's been of help, and I'd like to hear 
from him. If that's a cheap shot. Tom. 
I'm sorry. Whatever he's written, prose 
or poetry, I'd like to read. This is a 
hard century to live through now that 
Merton is dead, and the other major 
prophet seems to have lost his voice. 
The Scoop 
Art 
~I 

The exhibit "Tamarind: 25 The Holiday Star Theater Years," now showing at The Snite in Merrillville, IN will present country Museum, marks the 25th anniversary music stars The Judds in concert to­of the Tamarind Lithography morrow night at 7 and 10:30 p.m. Workshop. Opened in Los Angeles in Opening the show will be Michael Mar­
1960, Tamarind's goals were multiple: tin Murphey. Tickets for the show are to create a pool of master printers in $14.95. the United States; to stimulate Ameri­
Gregory Hines, star of the movies can artists' interest in lithography; to "White Nights" and "Running Scared,"develop and expand the technical will perform at the Holiday Star Theater aspects of the medium. Since 1970, on Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. TicketsTamarind has been affiliated with the for the show $15.95. Tickets for allUniversity of New Mexico. and con­shows can be obtained by calling (219)tinues the objectives of the original 769-6600 and at all Ticketron outlets. 
program. 
And of course, the big event of the 
Works by the following artists will be weekend is Notre Dame versus Mic­included in the show: Josef Albers, higan tomorrow in Notre Dame Richard Diebenkorn, Sam Francis, stadium. Kickoff is scheduled for 3 Philip Guston, David Hackney, John Al-p.m. and the game will be carried na­toon, Louise Nevelson, Rufino tionally on ABC. The pep rally will be Tamayo, Judy Chicago, Nathan held tonight at 7 p.m. in front of Gate Oliviera, Fritz Scholder, Roy Deforest 9 of the ACC. Tailgaters will abound and Joseph Raffael and others tomorrow on Green Field before the prominent in the print field. game. 
Museum hours are 10-4 p.m. today and tomorrow. Admission is free. Also at the Snite Museum is an "American Master Photographers" ex­
Movies 
hibit located in the Print, Drawing and 
Photography Gallery. 

The works of sculptor Ken Firme will be on display this weekend in the Wo­The Student Activities Board men's Art League Gallery at the Cen­finishes out "007" week with a tury Center in downtown South Bend. presentatic. of "Goldfinger" tonight The exhibit will be shown from 12-5 and tommorrow night in the Engineer­
p.m. today and tomorrow. Admission ing Auditorium. Sean Connery stars as to the exhibit is free . the British superspy. This time around he is out to stop the evil Auric Goldfinger and his henchman, Od­djob, from blowing up the gold supply of the United States at Fort Knox. Can 
L---1
M_as_s-~ 
Bond stop Goldfinger in time or is t'ort Knox doomed to destruction? Catch The celebrants for Mass at Sa­all the action of James Bond at his cred heart Church this ~eekend will best. Admission to the 7, 9: 15 and be: 
I I :30 p.m. showings is $1.50. Father Patrick Maloney at 9 a.m. Father Theodore Hesburgh at I0:30 
The department of communication a.m. and theater presents "Bye Bye Brazil" Father Robert Kennedy at 12:15 p.m. tonight at the Annenberg Auditorium. The schedule for confessions in Sa­The movie is a story of a small time cred Heart Church is: travelling road show across the dusty Monday through Saturday at I I: IS backroads of Brazil, which is still a a.m. crazyquilt of privitism and progress. Monday through Friday at 5 p.m. Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times Monday through Thursday at 7 p.m. called the movie "one of the most Saturday only 4-5 p.m. in the crypt. original and entertaining foreign films Vespers will be held Sundays at 7: 15 of recent years." Tickets to the 7:30 p.m. in the Lady Chapel. The rosary and 9:30p.m. shows are $1.50. is said daily at 6:45 p.m. at the Grotto. 
WVFITopTen 
!.Suspicious Minds Fine Young Cannibals 2.Sing Our Own Song UB40 
3.There Is a Light That Neuer Goes Out The Smiths 4.Human Human League 5./n Your Eyes Human League 6.Spirit in the Sky Doctor and the Medics 7.Seven Day Weekend Jimmy Cliffand Elvis Costello B.fall On Me R.E.M. 9.Loue Comes Quickly Pet Shop Boys 
10. Money's Too Tight Simply Red 
Thi~ chart compiled from the playlists of WVri-AM640 from Sept. 3 to Sept. 9. 
• 

Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986 -page 15 
Accent 
Kevin Hurley. • • 


Hurley comes back to visit ND 
By BETH CORNWELL been hoping to make the trip for up for. We want him to talk Staff ,.port<r several months, but only finaliz­with Dr. (Emil) Hofman, (Vice­ed their plans two weeks ago. President for Student Affiars) Kevin Hurley, the Notre "We had no idea that this Father (David) Tyson, (Rector Dame student who was mjured weekend was a special one for of Howard Hall) Father (Gene) by a hit-and-run driver v.hile the University. We just wanted Gorski, and Bill Healy. Mostly, crossing U.S. 31-33 last to see some folh, and we knew we just want to psych him up September 7, will be arriving 
even more that he already is. with his parent!! thl~ aflernoon You know, he just got his tern· to \pend An fo'ital weekl·nd at porary prosthesis yesterday. Norre Dame. Y estcrday he took one step and 
Sint"e last l>l'l'l'lllbcr. Hurley wday he took a couple more. ha~ been unc.lcrglllng n·habilita­We're not bringing it with us, uon at thl: t irl't'nt•ry ( l.'nter in though. For now, that's just for \1a~ ... adw~ctt·. therapy." 
rhc Hurll·} l..tnuly v.1ll arnve A<eording to Healy, the ~ig­at Mi~h1ana Rcg1011al Atrport at ge\t e'ent planned for the visit ~:37 p.m. acu1n..hng ll..l semor will be a \13!'1\ in SaL:rc:d Heart 
Bill Hoaly. Church on Sunday at 4·00. 
Whale 'en m~ a!'. ~tudc-nt "The Ma\s honoring Jo..:e, m I\ lJody Pn.:... ldcnl. Ifloal~ organll­really the hlg~e\t dealt hat we've cd that ... uaJem -.upp\lrt ot got planned. We're abo hoping
Kevin Hurley 
Hurlc:v\ l."tlll\J.k,..:l'lll.:c. "Wl·'J that. pending on hi\ phy..,iL:al n:aiJ)· ilkl' II II \\l' "\HIIJ ~l"t a itH lhat thl'rl' ~o~.crl" a !ot of folh L:ondition. we can have h1m at­ol 'tuLic:lll Lllll t.1 rth:t.'l thc: planL'. .... ho "antcJ hl \l'C Jo..:e\ln," tend the I:Uue·Gold game pep It "-OUid bL' gn:at to pump io..:L'' 111 R1~.:hard Hurk\ \aid .. rally. He m1ght be kind ol 0\·Cr­up lor hi" \J\rl hlo.L' that." Heal~ The 'Aeckend 'hill be large!} "helmcd by all the people. hut II 
'aid. un,tru('tured, al'('Ording to .... auld be great if we ~.:ould JU't According to loo..e,an\ latht:r. MxharJ Hurle\. ··we have to get him down on the !-.U..Iehnc\ to Richard Hurley, the fan11ly ha; pia}' it tty ear, -,ce what Kevin\ ;ee all the acuon," Healy .,aid. 
Dean Hoffman, a friend, Kevin, and Mr. Hurley 
Hurley enjoys visit at ND for weekend, anticipates his return 
BJ CUlTSTEVENS Dame u a student in January if his COflyEdl/0' prop-ess allows, accordiq to 
"It's creat, p-eat, areat be:ina RtdwdHurley. bact. to visit, and I can't wait 10 be He said Knin's reenrollmmt at bact. u a student," said Knin Notre Da.mt depends on his Hurley yesterday arter returninc to physical and cofllltivc rCCOVtty. None Dame fot the rim time since ·we have a aoa1 or lettiRJ the 
major physical problems out of the
~t!::::i1J visit included 
way ova the sprillJ and summer. meetin1 students and ad­Perblips in the fall he11 enroll in a ministrators, touriRJ the campus, couple or classes at alocaJ coUq:e," aucnd.ina a Mass at Saaed Heart hesatd. Church and tat.ina in 5eVeral An "lfallaoes well, hopefully he can 
Tostalrtenu. 
return (to Notre Dame) in January 
Hurley WA$ areeted at the of Relit yeu,"hesaid. Midtiana Rqional airport Fridroy "I don't want to come back until nttht by aaroup that included Vic:e I'm ready, t.ut I want to come Priltdml of S11.1dent Arfl&n Father bac:t.,"laidHurley. David Tyson, AsWtant Vice Prest­Richard Hwky said the ph,-,ical dent of Student Arfaan Sister Jean work ncceuary includes a muscle 1.mJ: and Falber Eulfne Gont.i, transplant on the uump of Hurley's rectOf of Howard Hall, Hurley's lea that was partially ampuU.ted u former on-campus residmcc, a resWt of the injwies inaarnd in 
Hurley and !us parents later met theaccident,shouldef oomttionsand with University President Father diaesuve system wort to enable IUa 'Theodore Hesburah and Notre stomach to operate properly. Da.mt head f001ball coach Lou Hurley's return, however, larcdy Holtz:. hinaes on his cQinitiw-e rehabilita· 
On Saturday, Hwley attmdcd tion,aa:ordinatohisfather. the An Tosta4 picnic at Stepan Althou1h Hurley's lona-term center and the Blue--Gold pme with memory is "incredible," his former Studcm Body President Bill memory or the events ~ween Healy. After a campw tour with April and September 191$ arc He.ly and a ride in Hesbur1h's "hazy" said Richard Hwley. limousine, Hurley ate at South Din­"His short-tam tnemOJ)' is im­iRJ Hall witb Healy and Freshman provinl thou.Jh," he said. "He 
Year or Studies dean Emil Hoff­recopized quite a ftw kids this
..... weekend, It amazed us.'" 
Yaterday, Hurley attended a Hurley's former roommate Kent Mus dedicated to him at Sacred Laber said studenb should con­HQrt Church, toot. pan in a tinue to sent Hurley ieum, "even if 
Howard Hall pboco session and you don't know him," had dtnner at Hofman's home. "Kevin says to keep smdina let­
Hurley said there was "definitely ter. He says their areal," said a lot or mthwiasm" about his visit la"". and he "really appreciated it." Healy aareed. "'His (Hurley's) 
"Kevin's in hcavm, he's hatina to ~pirin are hiah, but you have to 10 home," said Rkhard Hurley, realize how demandins emo­Kevin's father. tionally this is," said HQiy. 
Gorski wd Howard residents eJ.­"He's come a Ions way, but he's 
Iended "a very warm" reception to am a Ions way to so and Kevin's Hurley's visit. "TheTewaspleasure the fint at admit this," he said. in seeina his rm~a~t.able improve­Cilint the importance of 
ment,"hesaid. Hurley's"spiriii,"Healysaid,"this Hurley will return to his home is where the letters come in. n town, Dover, Manachusetts today. 
"It's been ,:reat gettina all the let· Hurley may return to Notre ters,nsaidHurley 
Class of '89. • • 
A message to the Class of '89: 
It's been over a year now since the Kevin Hurley accident took place on U.S. 31. Kevin was the victim of a hit-and-run accident while returning with friends from Saint Mary's on Saturday, Sept. 7, 1985. Since then, Kevin has undergone a very long and ex­tensive rehabilitative process. At present he is at his home in Mas­sachusetts making tremendous progress every day with the hope of returning to Notre Dame sometime in the near future. In a recent letter which Kevin wrote to Prof. Emil Hoffman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, Kevin had a special message for the Class of '89 which I would like to share ­

Kevin at home with Dean Hoffman 
"I know they're sop­homores now, but maybe you can tell the Class of '89 something for me, please. Would you please tell them that their support has, and will continue to en­courage me throughout my rehabilitative process. I have my sites set for my return to Notre Dame. We don't know if I'll recover enough to return, though. All I can do . . . is pray like a madman that I may return." 
Kevin's courage has been and should continue to be an inspi­ration to us all. Let's not forget Kevin and what he means to the Class of '89. Our encouragement and support is important to Kevin's recovery. I ask the stu­dents of Notre Dame and in par­ticular, the Class of '89, to keep Kevin in their thoughts and prayers. As Kevin said, "All we can do is pray like madmen that he will someday be able to return to Notre Dame." Our prayers are Kevin's hope -let's not let him down. 
Pat Cooke 
sophomore class president 
and Notre Dame 
Hopes are alive for Hurley's return 
8y CLiff STEVENS 
A,..,;.,l~mt Nf•w., F.ditw 
Plans for Kevin Hurley's return lo Notre Dame as a student are still very much alive. according to Richard Hurley, Kevin's father. 
"That• 'li what we arc rnovin~ 'oward~." he said. 
fllthough Kevin was unable to begin studies at a local school this semester In preparation for rclurning to Notre Dame. Hurley said local classes are possible in .Jt:li1Uary. The dale or Kevin's 
rccnrollmcnl at Noire name 
depends on his further progn~ss, s.tlid Hurley. 
Kevin's cognitive rehabilitation illl<l cll1 O(lCTclliOII that JlTCpt~n•<l Kt·vin's cmlpulatcd It~~ lot fittinH with an .ulili<.ial lirnh ruc\·t·nkcl hi' t•nrnlhnent dl tl h,;al ~f hool lhis o.oc.·mt'"lt·r. 'f;lid llurlcy. 
Tlu~ ll·hmn npcr.Jlinn. pt·r­lnnnt:d Aunust I. invol\•t•d the tr.mspl~ml of muS<.·It~.. li!-tsut· f1tnn Kt·\ in·.,. h.Kk to lht• "'tlump ol Ihe leH lhcll Wil!-t .unputc~lcd ,1, .1 n·,ull of i•~jurics sustained \\ ht·n Kevin WciS stnKk h\· c1 c.u lasl S..·t>lcmht~r .-s ct fn·Shllfilll. 
Hurley said Kevin should be using the artificial limb in about a month. Doctors then plan lo complete necessary digestive system and shoulder work. said Hurlev. 
Huitcy said Kevin's cognitivt.' rehahililation has progressed well, hut not to the point of his being ready to resume academic studies. 
"He's very close. hut it's belief 
to wait until we are sure he's 
re'!dy," sai<l Hurley. Murley said 
physicians continue to work on 
improving Kc\'in's memory and 
umccntration.·Hi~ mcn1ory isn't 
pt~rlt'ct yet. ~md won 'I he fnr 
c~whilc. hut its constantly HCltin~ 
hcllc:r .uul ht'lh·r." 'kli<l tturh.'\. .. , knn" I"Ill 1101 TCilcl}' Ito ttlkt. ll~•s~t·sJ ri!tht nnw, hut ""'ith lht' proHrt''' I' H' ht:t•n 11ldkin~&, I ktto\\. I (,111•1 h•.· too ldt c1~d)."s~1id 
Kt·vin Hurlt'} .. 
.. , prc1y that my hr.1in '"'ill f.ll.'l ht•alcd enough to rnnu.: hen k h' Notrl' lldmc." ht• "M~i<l ... , mt'at'l hc~lcd cnnuHh to dn 'implt· thin~s of memory th.ll .ut· 111 )\\ a triumph il I <.m tt'tnt·mht•t them." 
He said learning to walk with 
an artiOcial limh will al"" prow 
difl1cult."lt ~., nnt quite as easy as 
movies make il look." he .said. "You really have to work to get your balance right." 
Working at rehabilitation be· tween eight and twelve hours a day, five days a week has been 
-
a regular part of Hurley's routine. "The eighl-hour days are easy. 
compare<! to the others~· said 
Kevin Hurley. 
Hurley sai<l he appreciatc<l 
talking over I he phone this pasl 
week with !'".CVcr.al rcsklcnt~ nt 
Howard tlall, t1urlcy's fonnt•r 
rc!-!idt·m t' .at Noht· name. 
Rithtlltl lhnlt'\ '-licl <cmununi· lcllion trnm otht't mt·mhcr' ,., the Nollt.· f),nm· f ntnnnmil) h~l' htTn <on...t~ull I'mil llolm.m. tk.U! nl lin· rH''thl1ll'll Yt·cu of Sludit''t, \ i'itl"cl I hu !t.'} nn:r lht.• 'lmmtct at tfurh.·\ ·, hnnu:hJ\\11 ,,, l>nu.:r. ~.....~u hu~·tt .....uul Vi< t.• I'H·,idl'ttl for Slmlt•nt AfiJJir' t',l· lht.'l l>ciVid Ty~m ( ~lllt•d ll'( t'll11\'. Kt'\ in H'll'i\t'' lt'lh:r"t .mel t .u<l't t'\t'f'} \\ot:c·l\, '"lie! tt.urlt·y·.., 1.111u.'r. 
.. 
-~--­
Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986 -page 16
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
A pep rally to usher in the 1986 Notre Dame football season and Head Coach Lou Holtz is scheduled tonight at 7 outside Gate 9 of the ACC. -The Observer 
A meeting has been scheduled for all returning and incom­ing men and women swimmers at 3:59 p.m. Monday in the Rolf Aquatic Center. Further information may be obtained by contacting Debbie Smith at 239-5984. In addition, all past. present and future ND swimmers are to contact either Stephen Coffey (277-2766), John Ward (4639) or Christopher Walsh ( 1306) today concerning important weekend information. The Observer 
The South Bend YWCA is sponsoring a Run Jane Run five­and I0-kilometer race at Saint Mary's on Thursday, Sept. 18, beginning at 5:30p.m. A fun walk will take place at the same time, and registration may be done on race day at Angela Athletic Facility. -The Observer 
A hockey meeting for anyone interested In signing up for the Notre Dame varsity team will be held today at 4 p.m. in the north dome of the ACC. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame Cycling Club will hold daily group rides at 3:45 p.m., with short meetings to precede behind the Administration Building. Rides will vary in length, and tours and races are planned for beginners and experienced riders. The Observer 
WVFI will provide live coverage of tomorrow's Notre Dame­Michigan football game beginning at 2 p.m. with the "Notre Dame '86" pre-game show featuring "College Football Today" with Sean Munster and Brian Broderick, "The Lou Holtz Show" and "Irish Review." Covering the action will be Rudy Brandl and Frank Mastro. • The Observer 
, 
All men and women interested in rowing novice for the Notre Dame Rowing Club are to meet at the main circle today at 4:30p.m. prepared to run. Questions may be addressed to Patricia Warth at 283-3023. -The Observer 
NVA is looking for women's nag football and soccer officials for the upcoming interhall season. Further information and-br registration may be obtained by stopping by the NVA offices in the ACC. -Tl: ~ Observer 
The women's soccer game between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, originally scheduled for Saturday, has been res­cheduled for today at 4 p.m. on the field north of Angela Athletic Facility. · The Observer 
The Notre Dame Racquetball Club has slated a short or­ganizational meeting to elect officers Tuesday, Sept. 16, at 8:30p.m. In 127 Nieuwland. ·The Observer 
Non-Varsity Athletics has announced that Sept. 17 is the deadline for the following non-varsity events: CROSS COUNTRY: seven-man teams with five scoring. members must be from same hall, individuals may enter. 
HANDBALL: advanced, novice and beginners. 
SCRAMBLE GOLF TOURNEY: to be held 5ept.21. students, faculty or staff may enter, individuals or pairs, $4 greens fees, prizes. ULTIMATE FRISBEE TOURNEY: minimum I 0-person rosters, students and staff, no dorm restrictions, round robin. 
In addition, Sept. 16 is the deadline for a Grad-Faculty soccer league, and individuals who wish to play may get on a team by stopping by the NVA offices. 
Hydrorobics and the Century Club are two activities de­signed with fitness in mind, and are upcoming NVA events. 
Further information on these and other NVA activities may be obtained by contacting the NVA at 239-6100, or by stop­ping by the offices in the ACC. 
Varsity 
continued/rom page 24 
"We reached that goal and our 
goal for this year is to be a com­
petitive Division I school," he 
said. 
Ryan added that the team is "young but very strong" and has a positive attitude. "The girls are all very excited about the pro­gram and are looking forward to the competition at Hillsdale," he said. "They're hungry; they feel they have something to prove be­cause this is their first year." 
For the first two weeks, the 
team practiced at 6: 15 a.m. and 
3:30p.m. every day, running 80 
miles the first week, according 
to Ryan. The team is currently 
keeping up a similar schedule, 
including weightlifting twice a 
week, and maintaining a 70­
mile-per-week pace. 
The team consists of 14 run­ners, with the top seven running in NCAA competitions. Merkel is No.2 and the captain of the team, while sophomore Terry Kibelistis has climbed to the fourth spot as a walk-on. Freshman Wendy Murray placed second in the state of Michigan during high school and is currently running fifth. Sophomore Teresa Rice and 
junior Nancy Loughlin round out the competition team. Rice is a transfer from Saint Mary's Col­lege and is the NAIA district champion in the 800 meters. _ 
"Our goal is to place in the middle of the 36 teams at Dis­tricts," Ryan said. "At that meet (held Nov. 15) we will compete against teams from the Big I 0 and the defending national champions, the University of Wis­consin, in addition to the Mid-American Conference, which has 
aiwavs been perennially strong." 
---------------------------------------------------'""''"fbf',~."'o~b~s~er~,~-..~r~:-.:'!'·,~,,~r:"'c:~li'!:')a~m~c:-,-:,ffi~" •:. l<>l'atnl on tht· third floor of l.al'ortunl' 
~tudt·nt Cc:ntt·r. accc:pts dassifkd ;odn·rtbin)( !'rom 9 a.rn. until t p.m.. \lunda\· 
throu~h l'ridn. Thf' Ohsf'1'1'f.'r Saint \Ian··, offit'l'. l<ll'atl'd on the third floor of 
lla~)(ar Collc:~l' Cc:ntc:r. an·c:pts da"itkd' from 1.!..~0 p.m. until ~ p.m.. \lon· 
da\' thou~h Frida\· Dc:adlint· for nl'xt·da,· da"ilinb i' .~ p m. All l'la"itkd' 
must tw prepaid.l'itht·r in pa">n or h\· mail. ( :har)(t' i' I II n·nr-pt·r fin· chara<··
Classifieds 
tc:r' ·r da\' 
NOTICES BAA BEAT: The Observer Accent de­partment needs one student reviewer lor the bi-weekly Bar Beat column. Mus! be 21 or older. Application and writing samples due Friday, Sept. 12 by 5 p.m. on the features department desk. Contact Mary Jacoby lor more Info. TYPINGWOADPAOCESSING. CALL DOLORES 277-8131.  TV RENTALS LOW SEMESTER RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, FOAMEAL Y COLOR CITY 272·5959. '74 MONTE CARLO FOR SALE CALL 283-2002 Efficiency apt. private entranca good neighborhood utilities paid 288­095!>255-3684 House lor rent. One mile north of campus. S12S1n<>)lerson. 3 bdrms. Calf 674-6595 alter 5 p.m. BED 'N BREAKFAST rooms lor par· ents on football ~faf weekends. Calf 1·219-29t-7153'.  Need GA's lor all home games;Marty 1062 I NEED MICHIGAN GA TICKETS BIG BUCKS OFFERED CALL: 277-3786 SS$1 need MICH TIX G.A. OR STU· DENT. CAll TOM 239-5954 NEED 4 GA'S FOR MICHIGAN GAME. CALL TONY 1392. DESPERATE ALUMS NEED MIC­HIGAN TIX. Will PAV BIG S ANDOA TRADE PENN STATE TIX. CAll (201) 245-5923, LEAVE MESSAGE.  WANTED ROOMMATES WANTED. male. nice house, good location. 272· 7017 or 277-2194 TELEPHONE INTERVIEWERS. NO SElliNG INVOLVED GUARANTEED. $4 HR.. MUST WORK 5 HAS. SAT. & 5 HAS. SUN. WITH ADDITIONAL HAS. AVAILABLE. LOCATED DOWNTOWN SO. BEND. CAll MARKET OPINION RESEARCH, 282-2754, MON-FAI, 5·8 P.M.  STUDENTS!!--Purchase your class books at PANDORA'S and SAVE SS!! NeW'Used books, BOUGHT & SOLD. 3 Day Service on textbook orders. PAN­DORA'S BOOKS. 937 So. Bend Ave. ph. 233-2342 TAILGATEA RED EAST 1 P.M. SEE "GOOSE" GIBBONS (ClASS OF '82) SING THE SUPEABOWL SHUFFLE. PAR 3! PAR 3! PAR 3! OFF-CAMPUS NITE AT LEE'S RIBS MUSIC BY PAR 3!!! FRI.. 9112 9pm BE THERE!  ATTENTION ST. MARY'S STUDENTS. THE OBSERVER OFFICE IN HAGGAR HAll IS NOW OPEN FROM 12:30 TO 3 P.M. DAILY Watch NO beat Michigan!! Get your BINOCULARS lor only &5 from the AIESEC stand by Alley Half on Sat. ~13 YES. lADIES AND GENTLEMEN... (ESPECIAllY YOU LADIES) IrS THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN UNFORTUNATELY "THE RAYMOND" IS UNAVAILABLE THIS TIME AROUND  
TYPING AVAILABLE 287-4082 TYPING, TEAM PAPERS, ANYTHING. CALl 232-0166 EVENINGS. Own a Mac and modem? Call NO's Macintosh BBS, MacCHEG, 283-4714, alter 6PM and all weekend. Settings: &'tiN, all bauds. -FREE SOFTWARE!!·  TICKETS Need tfx lor Michigan game. Four recent graduates suffered through lour years of Faust and would like to see a winner. Please help them out. Calf Murph at 2687. I GOT 2 MICH GAs BEST OFFER BY  Will TRADE FOUR NO-PITT TIX FOR 2-4 NO-MICH. TIX. OR Will BUY 2-4 NO-MICH. TIX. CALL (301) 256-2645. WANT TO TRADE 1 MICH GA FOR MICH STATE GA'S, BEST OFFER. CAll JOHN OR lEAVE MESSAGE: 283·t504. WANTED 20 GA'S lor SMU, Nov.8. Calf x2683  STUDENTS: RESTAURANT WORK. All POSITIONS, FUll TIME. PART TIME, FlEXIBlE SCHED. SEEKING QUALITY PEOPLE FOR A QUALITY ATMOSPHERE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS. APPLY IN PERSON MON-SUN, 2-4 AT STEAK & AlE, U.S. 31 NO. Wanted: Volunteer Coach lor Gymnas­tic club Team. Call Matt, 3311  NEED AIDE OR RIDERS. TO MSU GAME. CALL 3470 7pm TO 9pm. IMPORTANT CILAGENEAALMEETING 6:30 SUNDAY. SEPT 14 at the CSC New members welcomed' Come learn about this social concern& ac­tlor>educ. club. ORIENTATION WKD. Sept 19-20. will also be dis·  PAUSE FOR GENERAl SIGHS FROM THE GENERAL FEMALE STUDENT POPULATION BUT THOSE WHO HAVE BEEN FOL­LOWING THE RAYMOND'S EXPLOITS WOULD liKE TO WELCOME:...DAUM ROLL PLEASE ..... CAAOL! STAY TUNED FOR ADVISORIES & UPDATES AS THEY BECOME AVAILABLE  
FAI lv MESSAGE 288-8199 CRAIG  cussed .... THINK GLOBALLY, ACT LO­ 
FOR SALE: Michigan State(2) Tlx. Calf  Drummer wamted for hard rock band.  CALLY....  BINOCULARS  
Wordprocesslng resumes, Typeset quality. 287-9024.  etc.  Desperately In need ol2 Purdue GA's. Calf Margaret 284-4388.  Joe at 312-664-6140. DESPERATE lor 2 Purdue GAs CAll  Tunes Include "Crazy Train", "Dazed and Contused", "Alone Again". Call Dooble or Brian at 1045 or 1026.  Does the Crew team have great buns? Yes, but we also have great brats,  &5 &5 &5 &5 &5 Sat. near Alley Hall  

 ND-MSU TICKETS: BEST OFFER 404·  4354  dogs & burgers. VIsit the Crew team  
LOST/FOUND LOST:GAEEN KHAKI JACKET IN 123  292-7211 AFTER 6 PM. I have SEASON football tickets to self. Price negotiable. calf 3706  Need 4 Michigan GA's. Calf Greg at t850. Mom and Dad want 2 Mich. GA'a.  PERSONALS  concession stand near the main flag pole before NO crushes Michigan. Christian theology contradicts Deuteronomy 28: theological anti·  BINOCULARS &5 &5 &5 &5 &5 Sat. near Alley Half  
NIEUWLAND HALL ON THUAS AUG 28 AT 2:00. IF YOU HAVE IT PlEASE  ssss I need Penn St. GA 's. II you want to  They're willing to shelf out big time bucks. Calf Brubaker • 283-1722.  BAA BEAT: The Observer Accent de­ Semltlsm vs. the doctrine of the "resurrection of the dead" taught by  Stonehenge Lives!!! The Notre Dame Druid Society will be  
RETURN IT. SENTIMENTAL VALUE. CALl GlEN X1066. HELP!!! LOST AT NAVARRE ST SAT  seff,please calf Andy x2211.SSSSS  NEED 3 GA'S TO AIR FORCE GAME; CHRIS £1107  partment needs one student reviewer lor the bi-weekly Bar Beat column. Must be 21 or older. Application and  Jesus. Write: Michael, P.O. Box 4475. South Bend, IN 46634-4475.  organizing soon. Watch soon... long may your shine bright!  lor details North Star  
- NIGHT JEAN JACKET, KEYS, SMC 1.0.,56. CAMERA, AND MAKE-UP PLEASE CONTACT MICHEllE 284­ 2 MICHIGAN x1271  G.A.  TIX  lor  safe-calf  I need G.A.a lor the Michigan Game. Calf Jim at 2088.  writing samples due Friday, Sept. 12 by 5 p.m. on the features department desk. Contact Mary Jacoby lor more  GOLD CARD! GOLD CARD! Super Val Drugs (Eddy St. next to Goodwill): 20% off school supplies. $2.00 off prescrip­ WELCOME BACK  
4344 THANKS!!! LOST a pair of Stetson wire reading glasses In a brown case. I have not done any homework since I lost them 8-29. Call Mark at 234·8568 Will make It worth your effort.  THE DUDE HAS MORE MICH GA'S. YOU CAN CAll HIM, BUT YOU CAN'T SEE HIM. 232-6153 Wanted GA's lor Purdue and Alrlorce games. Willing to pay BIG Bucks call 2266.  MICHIGAN TIX FOR SALE 277-0296 OESPAATELY NEEDED: 2 STUDENT OR GA TICKETS TO THE PURDUE GAME. CALL KAIS AT 2762. HAVE 1 MICH. GA, ACCEPTING BEST  Info. MORRISSEY lOAN FUND 11 :30 12:30 M·F 2ND FLOOR NEW WING LAFORTUNE $20-5200 FOR 30 DAYS 1% INTEREST GUIOE TO GAEENCAAD FROM FIJ.H  tions, and $0.80 bags of Ice thru Oct. t Town & Country Liquor (T&C Shop­ping Plaza): Special on Miller Lite case and all Wine Coolers 4 pak. 2 Iller thru Sept. 23 HAT&TIE  OBSERVER GRADUATES We could have used you a couple of weeks ago. • The staff. VATICAN Ill Friday at 4:30 on the sod quad VATICAN Iff The Papal Connection Is Here!!!! VATICAN Ill Be There.  
FOR SALE  I NEED 2 or 3 PURDUE tickets desperately! Calf Mike at 283-1655.  OFFER II CALl TOM AT 1633 Til FRI.  VISAS. FOR DETAILS, SEND $1 (P&H) IMMIGRATION PUBLICATIONS, P.O.  HAT& TIE  HAPPY ANNIVERSARY  
WANTED:  2  to  6  TICKETS lor AIR  I NEED 2 Michigan G.A.'a. No? Then  BOX 515991, DALLAS, TX 75251.  HAT& TIE  Aunt Soph and Uncle Med. Wish we could be there! love.  
FOR SO. BEND'S LOWEST WATEABEO PRICES VISIT CHEEPEA SLEEPER WATEABEDS ON THE COR­NEA OF MAIN & MCKINLEY IN MIS­HAWAKA. COMPLETE WATERBEOS STARTING AT 599.95. OUR PHONE£ IS 256-0462 WELCOME BACK! GO IRISH'  FORCE lor old NO ALUM • HELP! Calf Jim-283-3082 Please can you help me? Desperately seek 4 GA 's lor Purdue. Parents will cut off college funding II I don't come up with them. Anne 284-5319. NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S AND 2 PITT  how about just one? Calf Peter-1712 Need big $1 Selling 2 Michigan GA's and 1 student ticket. Best offer until Friday 8pm. Calf Jason at x3024. I NEED MICH GA 'S.272-6306 TIX WANTED. SEASON OR SINGLE.  FOOTBAll FANS. STAY AT QUIET COUNTRY BED AND BREAKFAST NEAR BRISTOL, IN. TOLl EXIT. 219· 825-5707. OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & liQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BlOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN.  HAT& TIE IS HERE HOWARD HALL'S 10TH ANNUAL BASH IS HERE FRIDAY, SEPT. 12 bUSES LEAVING FROM MAIN CIRCLE AND HOLY CROSS, SMC EVERY 20 MINUTES  lfsa,Laurle, & all your NO friends I can be tun, too. Sorry I wasn't there Wednesday. but your card reached me Thursday. Please be In touch, but not here. II you tell anyone about this. I won't be there.  
RECENT GRAD MOVING TO L.A. NEED TO SEll CAR '68 NOVA WI '75 ENGINE. GREAT FOR INDIANA WINTERS. 5400 OR BEST OFFER 1 CALl TOM OR BILL 232-4352. ,  GA'S. CAll MAUAA 284·5108. I NEED MICHIGAN Tl)( you got em? Iff pay WEll 4 em. calf BRAD 3454  255-1343 AFTER 5:30. IN DIRE NEED OF 1 PENN ST. GA TICKET AND 1 PURDUE TICKET. CASH OFFERED. CAll JIM AT 1729.  Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours: Monday· Thursday 5pm-12am, Friday 5pm-2am, Saturday 5pm-1am. Sunday 4pm-10pm  CHUCK PELL, what Is your phone number? Please leave It In my box. Mark.  GOOD lUCK DAN "the man" LUV, YOUR BUDS AT P.W. AND BUTT LUV!!I LOTS OF LOVE FROM YOUR "little Q." TOO!  

.. 
Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 17 
~ 
for Less 
Want to tell your folks in Fargo about yourfine grades in French? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Want to tell your buddy in Boise about the big ballgame? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 


Want to tell your sister in Scarsdale about studying Spencer? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Want to tell your girl in Galveston about going goofy without her? DIAL UP CLARK LONG DISTANCE. 
Any time you pick up the phone and dial up Clark long distance, you'll dial up savings. Because Clark quality long distance costs less... 5°/o less than AT&T for comparable calls. 
So make your first call a call to Clark's on-campus representative at 283-4150. Or visit our office in Room G89, Memorial Ubrary. And phone home...for less. 


CLqRKTELECOMMUNICATIONS, INC. 
-t 
~ 
Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986 -page 18
The Observer 
SMC volleyball begins campaign 


By DEIRDRE FINN 
Sport.~ Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team begins its regular season with an away game at Ancilla College today at 5:30 p.m. 
Saint Mary's defeated An­cilia College, as well as Hope College, in a preseason scrim­mage. 
Coach Mary Jo Lambert and Assistant Coach Susan Medley are "excited about this year's
Eastern Division title against the Phillies inDwight Gooden and the New York Mets will have team and their prospects forPhiladelphia tonight. Details appear below.
the opportunity to clinch the National League 
a successful season." 
Mary Reidy, last year's cap· lain and only returning senior, along with two transfer stu­dents from Southwest Mic­higan College, Julie Schroeder and Kimberly Nic­hols, give experience to a rela­tively young team. Among the core of hopeful newcomers are Patty Knoebel, Sharon Stefan, Mary McCarthy, and. Megan Ringquist. 
Although Coach Lambert says "all aspects of defense need work," she is encour­aged by the overall teamwork and strong bench. 
Mets head to Philadelphia to party IThankstoyou... lor ALL OF US. ~.Jn~Rc~WIIU 
_ itworks... 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK The champagne is going with them on the short trip down the New Jersey Turnpike, along with the oldjoke about spending a weekend in Philadelphia one day. 
The New York Mets, one victory from clinching their first division pennant in 13 years, say they can't wait to get to Philadelphia and celebrate. 
"That crew out there knows how to party," Mets Manager Dave Johnson said. 
Philadelphia, which fell to 22 games out of first and helped the Mets reduce their magic number to two by losing a three-game series against the Chicago Cubs; hosts New York for a three-game­series beginning Friday night in what could formally finalize the National League East race. 
"We smell the end," said first baseman Keith Hernandez. "Right now, we're just looking to get it over with as quickly as pos· sible." 
The Mets missed their chance to wrap up the division at home when they dropped the first two· games of a three-game series to Montreal this week. 
"It will be nice to clinch in Philadelphia," Johnson said. "It gives us a chance to beat the only team in our way. This way, we won't back in. It's exciting. I have a nice warm feeling about this." 
New York ace Dwight Gooden, 14-5, will oppose rookie left· hander Bruce Ruffin, 7-3 in the series opener. Although the Mets are 4·2 against the Phillies in Philadelphia (7-5 overall this season), the Phillies are 12·3 when the 22-year-old Ruffin pitches and Ruffin has beaten the Mets in his only outing against them, an 8-4 victory on Aug. 13. 
"It'll be awesome," said Gooden. "All my life, I dreamed of pitching the clincher. I'm glad the way this came out, falling right into my hands. It'll make up for some of my losses this year." 
Even if the Mets don't clinch Friday, they will have two more shots with Bob Ojeda, 16·5, against rookie Mike Maddux, 2-6, on Saturday and Sid Fernandez, 
15·4, going on Sunday against Kevin Gross, 9· I I. 
"All we have to do is win one game in Philly," Hernandez said. "I don't think they'll sweeP. us, but if they do, winning it in St. Louis wouldn't be bad." 
The Mets are longtime tenants of first place in the NL east. They took over the division lead from the defending champion Car­dinals on April 23. 
(conocO) 
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA 
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, NORTH AMERICA WILL BE ON CAMPUS FOR A PRE-RECRUITING PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION. WE WILL DISCUSS OPPOR­TUNITIES IN OUR MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. ALL BUSINESS STUDENTS GRADUATING IN DECEMBER OR MAY ARE INVITED TO ATTEND: 
DATE: SEPTEMBER 18, 1986 TIME: 8:00 -10:00 PLACE: ALUMNI ROOM -MORRIS INN 
~----------------------~~---------------------­
SLIP INTO COMFORTABLE 
FLEECE SEPARATES IN YOUR CHOICE OF I~ COLORS! 
EACH PIECE 
16.99 
Ayres own collectible poly/cotton fleece separates in kelly, navy, pale grey, red, white, jade, raspberry, royal, yellow, turquoise, violet or black. Elastic waist, ribbed 
ankle pants to match with mandarin collar or polo style tops. 
Misses sizes S,M,l. Sportswear 10.385), Scottsdale Mall and University Park. 24 Hour, 7 Day, Toll-Free Order Lines:· Indiana, 1-800-572-9737. OH, KY, IL, Ml, 1-800-772-9737. 
,... 
Shop Ayres Scottsdale Mall and University Park 
daily 10 to 9; Sunday 12 to 5:30. 



Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 19
The Observer 
Patriots remain unbeaten at 2-0 after handing Jets a 20-6 setback 
Rockne. 
TheLegendLivesOn. 
b1 th~ lll'arts :uu.I mttu.h 11f :dl Notre llamL" f<1llnwers. 0:1a«..:h Knuu: R<»Ckllt'·s mt•Jlltli"Y 
is Vi\o"li..l 
Sow. lo help kt~'P lhal ml'mory alivl'. a fi11l color limilt'lll'll!IK>n luhogrnph pnnl fn>m an ongural ml p:unung. has heen ""ul'd 
• Full mlor: J2" x 2H v," 
• f.dJIHlll of l)'i(l lphL< >O anisfs pnM![S) 
• All pnnL< numhl'n'!l :u1d sign<'!! oy lhl' an1s1 
• Ct·rtdk;ttt• of Autht•lllt<.ity inrlu<k'tl 

0 -------­


1 -Lok-Tite plastic 2 gang valve 1 -Bubbler Corner Filter 
$29.99
1-Aqua· Mist 4" air bar 1-Aqua-Temp Thermometer 1 --3" Quick Net 1-Carbon/Floss 1-Your First Aquarium Handbook 
Beautiful 20Gallon Aquarium Combo 
'I 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. Tony Collins caught two touch­down passes, one on an option pass from fellow running back Craig James, as the New England Patriots beat the New York Jets 20-61ast night in an early-season AFC east showdown. 
The Patriots, who defeated the Jets 26-14 last December in the AFC wild-card game and then marched to the Super Bowl where they lost to Chicago, are 2-0 this season and alone atop the division. They have allowed just nine points and no touch­downs in the two games. 
The Jets, who lost star running back Freeman McNeil with a right elbow injury in the second quar­ter, are I-I. 
Collins was wide open for a six­yard touchdown toss from quar­terback Tony Eason in the first quarter. He and James com­bined to clinch the victory at 6:25 of the third period on a gutsy fourth-and-I call from the New York 10. 
The Patriots called a timeout before Eason pitched to James, who was sweeping to the right. James stopped and lofted a pass over two defenders to the un­covered Collins at the goal line. 
Tony Franklin added a 45-yard field goal at the end of the third quarter and a 42-yarder with 3: I 2 remaining. 
The Jets got two field goals from Pat Leahy, who has hit on 

IRISH GARDENS 
Plant Sale 
All Plants 50% off See Us Now (basement LaFortune) For the Best Prices in Town I 
Sept. 1 th ru Sept. 30 
f~~~-..
"'i"""'" 
AQualiiiUII !PAIHI Jl lilT 
I .
•N~N~H-::~·:~.-...... 
·~~IIICIGI 
I . 
•B.ml41-·.. ­
·~
.....-._ ...". 
•"L1'1'Qt,.,__.,_,OJ 
•fOII-(_,-••o• 
Marina 10 gal. Deluxe Aquarium kit 
Large 2 gal. size 
INCLUDES: Bowl, Hood, Filter Airline Tubing, Filter Cartridge, Plastic Plant, Goldfish Food and Air Pump 
Plus 2 Goldfish 
$16.99 
Reg.
$7499 
COMPLETE 
GOLDFISH BOWL KITS 
a club-record 14 consecutive at­tempts. Leahy hit from 33 and 47 yards. 
McNeil was injured after gaining seven yards on a second­period running play. He fell heav­ily on his right arm and was helped from the field with a pos­sible dislocated elbow. He was 
taken  to  a  hospital  for  an  ex­ 
amination.  
Things did  not start well  for  

the Patriots as Eason fumbled on the third play from scrimmage. 
Dropping back at his own 37, he was hit by nose tackle Joe Klecka and the ball bounced toward the New England end zone. Linebacker Lance Mehl fell on it at the 10. 
But the Jets gave the ball back on the next play when Patriots nose tackle Toby Williams stripped fullback Tony Paige and end Brent Williams recovered. 
New England scored first on a eight-play, 55-yard drive, cul­minating with Eason's pass to a wide-open Collins in the left nat. New England has thrown a touch­down pass in 27 straight games. 
Patience 
continued from page 24 
has received overshadows their efforts. All this attention fans the anx­ious names of Irish fans. 
• To prognosticate an eight-or nine-win season at this stage may be premature. Rather than place an unfair burden on Holtz and the team, fans should rally around them with patience and support. no matter what the sit­uation. 
eThe only prediction I'll offer here about Saturday's game is to expect the unexpected. While Holtz has said the game won't be won with trickery, he kept last Friday's final scrimmage and the last few days of practice closed to the media. Other than just keeping down the crowd around the practice field, Holtz probably wouldn't have done it if he didn't have something planned that he didn't want to become public in­formation. It's safe to say that the familiar sequence of Pinkett. Pinkett. Pass and Punt won't be seen Saturday and not just be­cause Pinkett isn't here. 
• 
Getting away from the football hoopla for a moment. Notre Dame unveils its newest varsity team tomorrow -the women's cross country team, the seventh women's program to achieve var­sity level. The Irish will travel to Hillsdale, Mich., to compete in the Hillsdale Invitational. and I wish them good luck. 

• 
While Notre Dame petitioned the NCAA for a waiver to the I 2­credil rule for David Rivers, the point is probably moot. Accor­ding to Assistant Basketball Coach Matt Kilcullen, Rivers is now registered for I 2 hours this semester and will carry this schedule throughout the semes­ter. As for basketball. Kilcullen said Rivers' playing status won't be known until November. 



The Proof 
lsln 
the Ta.stel 
()pea Mo..s.t 11 .. 
l'laG-SondUikha&lada 
·-··­
Beer& Wine 277-B20 
I.Garl............. 
(JVe.lto......,.


UniversityPark MaD 



The Observer 
-. 
Szanto to lead Irish soccer vs. IU 
By PETE GEGEN 
Sports Writer 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -For 
sweeper Pat Szanto, the goal has 
basically remained the same. 
Szanto is one of only two senior starters and the only three-time monogram winner for Notre Dame. And in this, his final year, Szanto would like nothing better than to get to the NCAA playoffs. 
"It's really tough because there are usually two automatic and one at-large bids from our region (the Mideast)." noted Szanto. "Usually Evansville, Indiana, and Akron get those. But we've taken the steps to get there." 
One step is the upgrading of the Irish schedule. Opponents this year include second-ranked Evansville, IOth-ranked Penn State, and 13th-ranked Connec­ticut. And tonight the team is in Bloomington to face the 18th­ranked Indiana Hoosiers. 
Because Indiana is tradition­ally one of the teams to get the NCAA bid from the Mideast. a vic­tory for the Irish would be the first step toward reaching that goal. 
Another step was taken by Szanto. A proven forward, he scored 27 goals and registered six assists in his first two seasons. But going into his junior year he saw the need for a change in position from for­ward to sweeper. 
"I kind of requested it." he said. "We were facing a tough schedule and we lost a lot of. 
Red Sox drop one, finally 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Pinch-hitter Lee Lacy singled home the tiebreak­ing run in the eighth inning Thursday night and the Bal­timore Orioles beat Boston 8-6, ending the Red Sox's I 1-game winning streak. 
The Orioles, who scored twice 
~\~ 0~ 
~<o~ E 
~~o~~ urope! 
Students-Youth Fare 
ROME  $556  
PARIS  $456  
FRANKFURT  $496  
MUNICH  $496  
AMSTERDAM  $456  

All plus $8.00 tax Round Trip 
in the seventh for a 6-6 tie, loaded the bases in the eighth on a double by Mike Young. a walk to John Stefero and an error by reliever Steve Crawford, 0-I, on Floyd Rayford's bunt. 
Lacy singled to center against Joe Sambito, and Juan Beniquez hit a sacrifice fly off Bob Stanley. 
people on defense." Head Coach Dennis Grace is happy with the change. 
"I never doubted his ability to go to the goal," said Grace. "But we needed a sweeper, and Pat's good enough to make that transition." 
Due to the position and his seniority, Szanto has emerged as a director on the field. 
"The sweeper position naturally makes you a defensive leader," he said. "I just try to get the others going. getting them to mark up." 
The rest of the defense in­cludes keeper Hugh Breslin, who is the only other senior starter, and co-captain Steve Lowney, who is stationed at wingback. And although he is only a soph­omore, John Guignon has played excellent soccer from his stopper position. 
Together this defense has only allowed one goal in three games. The defense was the main reason for the Wisconsin-Milwaukee up­set. 
"The Milwaukee game was the high point of the season so far," he said. "We didn't let them score, so they couldn't win." 
Although he was not happy with Minnesota breaking the defense's shutout streak, he feels that it may work out for the best. 
"A good thing came out of it." he noted. "Because if Indiana would score against us, the shock might have been so great that we fold." 
232-7995 SEVEN SEAS TRAVEL 525 N. MICHIGAN SOUTH BEND, IN 

But Szanto assures everyone that he is not afraid of anyone. In fact. one look at Szanto on the field would show you that he in­timidates the opponents. His rough appearance and lumber­ing style accents his defensive ability, and his speed aids his of­fensive contributions, where he already has two goals and an as­sist. 
But as Szanto and the rest of the Irish take the field at Bill Armstrong Stadium at 7:30 tonight. they will be facing a hungrier-than-usual Hoosier squad. Indiana will be looking for its first victory of the season after emerging from the Adidas­Metropolitan Life Soccer Classic with an 0-I-I record. 
"That is a big disadvantage for us," said Grace, himself a former player under Indiana head coach Jerry Yeagley. "They are always prepared, always hungry. 
"I know there is a lot of work he wants to do with his team, a lot of questions he wants an­swered." 
So while the circumstances may not be the best. Grace would still like nothing better than to beat his former coach. 
"We've had a good week of practice," he said. "We'll be men­tally ready." 
Grace also added that the longer the game goes with the score 0-0 or I -I, the better the chances are for his squad. And with the experienced defense led by guys like Szanto, his reason­ing is understandable. 
Agreat pizza is getting harder and harder to find. 
But ben Ill&. Great tuty crust LuJ. bave to go out or your way to rtnd ua. douauuce. Real cbMae, gral!Mt rreah. we go out or our way to make It wor1h Topplnp. topplnga. topplnp. every step you take. Becauae you mlgbt 
·-~ Godf tbcr.._. ~----~
--er ~~~­
52920 U.S. 31 N 277·5880 
; 
r-----~--------COUPON--------------­
1 
I Friday and Saturday 
I I Coupon Special Large for .Price of Medium 
Good for Carry out or delivery Delivery and tax extra Not valid with any other offer 
Delivery untll11 :00 pm weekdays ~~ Expires 9/26/86 2:00amonFrldayandSaturday ~~·~ia 
L----------------------------------­


----~....---~---------~ ---. ----------~-~~------~--------------~~---­
The Observer Friday-Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 21 
Pep rally tonight 


5pecii!l to The Oho;erver 
While Head Coach Lou Holtz and the Notre Dame football team will not kick off the 1986 season until tomorrow, plenty of action should be on hand outside Gate 9 of the ACC tonight at 7. 
That's when the first pep rally of the year will take place, and a large crowd is expected to help the team open the season in grand fashion. 
Scheduled to speak at the rally are Defensive Coordinator Foge 
, Fazio, Irish captain and inside linebacker Mike Kovaleski and, of course, Holtz himself. 


Candy, flowers, gifts, or letters, don't send them 'cuz a BELLYGRAM IS BETTER. 

For a gift that is unique, send a Bellygram to your shiekl 
255-3355 
Save this ad for future reference! 

Observel:lflle Photo Kathy Morin (left) has adjusted well to a switch team. Kevin Herbert takes a look at Morin and to setter on the Notre Dame women's volleyball the squad in his story below. 
Morin adjusts to new role as setter 
By KEVIN HERBERT 
Sports Writer 
Kathy Morin, in her third season as a Notre Dame volley­ball player, has established her­self as a proficient starter at the setter position. 
"One of Kathy's greatest attri­butes is her versatility. She is a great all-around player," said Notre Dame head volleyball coach Art Lambert. 
The two-time monogram win­ner from Mishawaka, Ind., began her playing days here as a side­hitter. She moved to the setter position last October break during a contest on the team's California trip, when junior Jill Suglich was sidelined with an in­jury. 
After the injury to Suglich, the two saw split duty until Lambert decided to stay with one setter, that being Morin. 
"Kathy took over the setting in April and has made great prog­ress there. She is getting better each day," said Lambert. 
"She can do many things for us. She is a good hitter and good blocker, a very versatile player." 
"My improvement in setting has really pleased me," Morin said. "During the summer I would come over from Mis­hawaka for extra practice and I also go to practice early to work on my setting. I am happy this extra effort has improved my set­ting. 
"I respec-t Coach Lambert alot. 

Ironwood liquors 
1725 NORTH IRONWOOD ROAD SOUTH SEND. INDIANA 46635 ,2191272-7144 
KICKOFF 
He took a gamble by putting me at setter because I am not quick and had not had any experience at that spot. I have to com­pensate for the lack ofquickness with smart play." 
This weekend, Notre Dame will be participating in the Rice Tournament squaring offagainst the likes of Rice, North Carolina. Tulane and Rutgers. 
"I am really excited about our team," Lambert said. "The feeling at practice is so much more intense than it has been the last two years. We are really going to surprise some teams. 
"We had a really bad record last year against a very difficult schedule. But we learned that to be a top-20 team you have to play top teams. We want to gain recognition as a tough squad, success is right around the cor­ner." 
The Irish got a taste of that success at the Hoosier Classic, where they finished second to 
Big Ten champion Purdue. defeating Indiana in three staight games in the process. 
Notre Dame has a chance to continue their its winning ways today and tomorrow in the Rice Tournament. 
/ YOUR FOOTBALL ,__ :. PARTY SIASON WITH~­
REASOR ICE, INC. 
1709 Werwinski 
PHONE 234-5309 SPECIAL~# BAG
'2.90 . 
· . . NUGGETS ..--­
•..•.,,~-~-).·........ ·._: : ••::,;· -~-; ,"1\'' ..... ;... 
Effective Home game Saturdays only-with this ad only 
dEREMIAH SiWEENEY 
Daily and Nightly Specials with free munchies 
Monday thra Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Phone 2n-6368 6402 Grape Road
Monday thra Saturday 
Across from University
10:00 pm ·Close 
Park Mall on Grape Road 
Join our "Around the World with 80 Beers"Club 

<.. 

Friday-Saturday, September 12-13,1986-page22
The Observer 
ND women face difficult schedule 



STOP BY THIS WEEKEND TO SEE YOUR OLD FRIENDS AND ND ALUMNS 
Special Weekend Hours 
Friday 9 pm -3 am Saturday 12(noon) -2 pm Half-hour after the game-2 am 
Rentals-call Linda Ward 277-6524 
N.D. FOOTBALL FANS SPEND THANKSGIVING WEEKEND IN 
SUNNY CALIFORNIA NOV26-30 
Your THANKSGIV'~ GIN CALIFORNIA includes:· 
• 
Round trip oi•''!)\~uth Bend-Los Angeles via United airlines 

• 
Round trip 01~rt-hotel transfers 

•deluxe 
accommodations for four nights at the new, elegant Sheraton Plaza La Reina Hotel. 

• 
T1cket to Notre Dome-Southern California game. Nov. 29. 

• 
Round tnp hotel-game transfers 


The complete Cost Per Person from South Bend 
(double occupancy) $549.00 Single Supplement $25.00 • • N.PT INCLUDED: Meals other than served by United Airlines, items of a personal nature. OPEN TO ANY INTERESTED FANS! 
.> 
Seven Seas Travel 
525 North Michigan Street South Bend, IN 46601 Phone: 232-7995 
By SHEILA HOROX 
Sports Writer 
At the end of the 1986 Notre Dame women's tennis season, the win-loss record might not stand up to last year's 28-6 finish. but that's because this year's competition is 50 percent tougher. 
Head Coach Michele Gelfman recognizes that if the Irish are to gain respectability, they must compete against the top teams. 
This weekend the Irish open the season by hosting two for· midable opponents, Illinois and Miami (Ohio). Match play with Il­linois begins today at 3 p.m. and Miami is next up tomorrow mor­ning at 9. 
So far, Gelfman says her team is playing extremely well. "Last week at the Midwest In­
vitational, our returning players were steady and consistant throughout." Gelfman said, "and the freshmen got progressively better as the tournament went 
on.  If  we  remain  healthy,  we  
should  have  a  successful  
season."  

Notre Dame players got a preview of Illinois and Miami at the Midwest Invitational, going I· 4 against the lllini and 1-I against Miami. According to Gelfman, both teams post a solid lineup in singles and doubles, especially Miami. Last year both teams beat the Irish in close matches and this duel meet will undoubtedly give Gelfman some indication of her team's mental toughness; which she sees as the key to this season. 
Michelle Dasso. Stephanie Tolstedt. Alice Lohrer. and 
Tammy Schmidt are Notre 
Dame's top four singles players, 
and the doubles teams will con· 
sist of Dassolfolstedt. Natalie II· 
lig;lohrer and Tammy 
Schmidt/Sullivan. Other mem· 
bers of the team who will prob· 
ably see action are Resa Kelly, 
Jackie Uhll, Patricia O'Byrne and 
Maura Weidner. 
These first two matches are im· 
portant in terms of giving 
Gelfman a better idea of the 
number-one through six lineup, 
and the number-one through 
three doubles teams. It is espe­
cially pivotal for the freshmen. 
who will be experiencing their 
first team competition. 
This might indeed be the 
weekend where the Notre Dame 
women's tennis team discovers 
just how much potential they . have. 
lion. freshman Tom O'Rourke couple of high school state .has impressed Piane and figures champs."
Irish 
to be among the top eight com­The Irish open their season peting for the Irish. today at 4 p.m. with a five-miler
continuedfrom page 24 
The Ohio State team ''had a starting on the second fairway of credentials. Rogan was New York banner recruiting year and will Burke Memorial Golf Course, State Champ in the 1.000. while add a 4: I 0 and 4: 13-miler to a think the home-course advan­O'Conner recorded the fifth-best team that has the bulk from last tage can 0nly help them. high school time in the 1.600 in year returning." Piane said. "Mic­"The guys know the course and the United States as reported by higan State lost one person from running in front of freinds and 
Track and Field News. In addi· a year ago and has brought in a roommates is a plus." Piane said. 
ATTENTION 
Registered N.D. Organizations Student Government Funding Appeals Due Thursday, Sept. 17 Applications available in Office of Student Activities 3rd Floor, LaFortune 
RIBS & BLUES 
MICHIANA'S HOME OF CHICAGO BLUES 3201 WESTERN SOUTH BEND, IN (219) 237-9132 

FEATURING 

u 
BEST DOWN HOME BLUES & BBQ ANYWHERE LIVE BLUES ON WEEKENDS 
Peter dames 
MENU HIGHLIGHTS 
~_,_g RIB TIP DINNER............ 6.30 Letty Dlzz Mini RIB TIP DINNER ......... 4.45 Smokey g. RIB DINNER................. 7.35 Smothers mall RIB DINNER............. 5.25 Big Time SLAB RIB .........................14.25 CATFISH DINNER.............. 6.04 
South Side 
CATFISH SANDWICH........ 2.50 
Denny&the 
PIG EAR SANDWICH......... 1.50
Sklntones 
HOT LINK SANDWICH ....... 2.00 


Zeto 

Campus 
2: 15 p. 111.: Senior "Lou Holtz Welcome Week." Library reflect­ing pool 
3:00 p.m.: Tennis. NDW vs. Illinois, Courtney Courts 3:30p.m.: Philosophy Colloquium, "Kant. Fichte, and Short Arguments to Idealism," Library Auditorium 
4:00 p.m.: Cross Country, ND vs. Ohio and Michigan State, Burke Memorial Golf Course 4:00p.m.: Field Hockey, ND InvitationaL Southwest Missouri State vs. Michigan, Cartier Field 
6:00 p.m.: Meeting. St. Josepll's Emergency Room Volunteer Program. I 23 Nieuwland 
7:30 and 9:30 p.m. Latin American Film Series, "Bye Bye BraziL" Departments of Anthropology and Communication and Theatre saturday 8:30a.m.-3:00p.m.: Medical College Admissions Test. En­gineering Auditorium 9:00a.m.: Tennis, NDW vs. Miami of Ohio, Courtney Courts 
10:00 a.m.: Baseball, ND Alumni Game, Jake Kline Field I0:00 a.m.: Senior "Lou Holtz Welcome Week," Green Field I 0:30 a.m.: Varsity Volleyball, SMC vs. Anderson College, 
Angela Athletic Facility 
I I :00 a.m.: Fiel<l Hockey, ND Invitational, ND vs. Michigan, Cartier Field 
2:30 p.m.: FootbalL Notre Dame vs. Michigan, Notre Dame Stadium Post-football: Mass, Keenan-Stanford Chapel sunday 
12:30 p.m.: Meeting. Knights of Columbus, Knights of Co­lumbus Hall 
3:00 p.m.: RecitaL Assistant Professor of Music Loretta Rob­inson, Moreau Hall Little Theatre, Free 
6:30 p.m.: Meeting. CILA, CSC Coffeehouse 
Celebrate Help the LifeI 
dp 
March of Dimes Fight Birth Defects 

ACROSS 1 Sortie 5 Great 
quantities 10 Son of Jacob 14 lt. river 15 Hawaiian 
greeting 16 Mid-East country 17 Clemens 
character 20 Condition 21 Shiny fabrics 22 Dobbin's 
dinner 25 Chesterfield 26 Bakery item 30 "-Marner" 34 A Chaney 35-Grande 36 Maximally 37 Sandarac tree 39 Over 41 Within: pref. 42 Buries 44 Wedding words 45 Poet's always 46 Della of song 47 White fruit 50 Baby buggy 52 Alphabet run 53 Mates 56 Oslo denizens 60 Folkloristic 
orchardist 63 Biblical prophet 64 Mountain 
nymph 65 It. town 66 Distribute 67 Addicts 68 Getz or 
Freberg 
DOWN 1 Cheers 2 In-(doing 
dull work) 3 Peruvian 4 Munich medico 5 Charlotte 
of TV 6 Clerical vestment 7 Enemies 

8 Gr. region 
9 "Andrea Del -" 10 Man's span 11 Shamrock Isle 12 Trucks 13 Caravansary 18 Shakespearean 
king 19 Bread 
ingredient 23 Br. auto needs 24 Whirl 26 "-de Lune" 27 Lena of song 28 Maternally 
related 29 Antiseptic: 
var. 31 Recluse 32 Daisy-like 43 TV fare 
flower 47 Blurs 33 Tale 48 Skeletal part 36 Below old 49 Certain poems 
style 51 "-Like It" 38 Answer 53 A few 40 Biblical 54 Light 
kingdom measurement 
9/12/86 55 Ger. admiral 57 Pause 58 Bristle 59 Paradise 60 Bread spread 61 Golfer's goal 62 Mormons: abbr. 
-======= James Bond 007 Week Continues With 
i ------------G 0 L D FINGER----t 
l 
Friday, Sept 12 & Saturday, Sept 13 7:00, 9;15, &11:30 $1.50 
No Food or Drink Allowed 
Engineering Auditorium 
•••sponsored by the Student Activities Board••• 
l 

-~--­
------~-------~----~--~ 

inside for all the details on Notre Dame's opener against Michigan. 
Women's cross country now varsity ... 
By PETE LAFLEUR 
Sports Writer 
The women's cross country team opens its first season of varsity competition tomorrow at the Hillsdale Invita­tional in Hillsdale, Mich. The sport has been club-oriented for the past 12 years and will compete in three additional competitions before the North Star Conference Meet in late October. 
Head Coach Dan Ryan, a third year Notre Dame law student. expressed confidence that the team will be able to compete on the Division I level. He sai~ the team will be led by juniors Kathleen Lehman and Julia Merkel and freshman Linda Filar. Ryan is a graduate of the University of Detroit. transferring from the University of Michigan his junior year. He ran varsity all four years and was a second team All-American. Ryan is currently on The Ath­letic Congress' Elite List. which denotes the top I 0 percent of runners in the nation. 
"Kathleen is our No. I runner and by far the most im­proved. Based on this year's time trials, she's runnung a minute and 27 seconds faster than last year," Ryan said. "Linda was an All-American in high school and is our No.3 runner. She will be extremely good down the road." 
The Hillsdale Invitational will consist of I I Midwest teams, including Michigan State and Wisconsin-Parkside, which are both ranked in the NAJA top I 0. Ryan said he also expected good competition from the University of Detroit and Akron. 
According to Ryan, who was also last year's coach, the goal of the 1985 squad was to gain Division I status. 
see VARSITY, page 16 
...while men's team will rely on youth 
By GREG ANDRES 
Sports Writer 
It will be a very young Notre Dame cross country team 
running on Burke Memorial Golf Course today. 
Five runners with sophomore eligibility and three fresh­men will represent the Irish against Michigan State and Ohio State to open the 1986 season. 
Head Coach Joe Piane must piece together his cross country team after losing All American Jim Tyler, monogram-winner John Magill and Indiana Intercol­legiate I 0, 000-meter champion Tom Warth. Piane calls this a "rebuilding year that will be very interesting and open to many pleasant surprises." 
However, his young team concedes nothing. 
The goals of this season remain consistent with those of past teams, "to win every dual meet. the National Catholic lnvitaitonal. the Notre Dame Invitational and qualify for the NCAA's," Piane said. "This team is a close­knit group of guys who run well in a pack." 
, r t ~ 
t t t 
t 
[ • 
Two juniors with two remaining years of eligibility, co­captain Rick Mulvey and monogram-winner Dan Garrett. return after sitting out last year with injuries. The lead­ership roles of this team will rest heavily upon Mulvey and Garrett. 
Mulvey calims the 1986 Irish are "are a legitimate team, with a legitimate chance of qualifying for the NCAA's." 
Helping the Irish reach that goal will be sophomores Ron Markizech, an accomplished runner from Wil­liamsville, N.Y., and Shawn O'Fiaherty, a proven runner from Santa Clara, Calif. Another runner with two remain­ing years of eligibility is Steve Lunney, a transfer from LaSalle, who was ineligible last year. Lunney, like Markizech and O'Fiatery, should prove to be competitive among Notre Dame's top eight runners. 
Filling spaces vacated by graduating seniors from last year are a group of very talented freshmen. Mike Rogan and Mike O'Conner come to Notre Dame impressive 
see IRISH, page 22 
Friday, Saturday, September 12-13, 1986-page 24 
Let's have some patience in '86 
Tomorrow the Notre Dame year finally begins. 
Yes, classes have been in session for three weeks, but it doesn't seem like fall at Notre Dame until the opening kickoff of the first game of the season. At that moment. when 59,075 swell to their feet to the familiar strains of the fight song, fall officially begins at Notre Dame. 
Dennis Corrigan 
Sports Editor 
By the time this column is read, many alumni will have completed their pilgrimages ami begun reliving memories of falls past. Rockne, Leahy, the Gipper, the Four Horsemen and a host of others from the Notre Dame pantheon will figure in many conversations. 
And then the speculation will begin. 
The question of whether the Irish will win Sat­urday will nourish into whether the Irish will win on New Year's day. Right now, all anyone has are questions. 
Most of them are basic and even Lou Holtz is asking them. How will his team respond if faced with adversity? Will Steve fkuerlcin continue to be as successful in front of the 59,.075 as he has been in practice"? Will the rebuilt offensive and defensive lines be able to handle those of ' the Wolverines"? 
But off the field, a larger question ha~ to be 
asked. Will the Notre Dame fans have patience"? Followers of the Irish arc notoriously im­
patient. If the fans had their way, they would probably change coaches aflcr every loss. Righi i now, excitement and anticipation are boiling over and have been since that November day i when Holtz was named the 25th head coach of , the Irish. If things go wrong, some people will begin to grumble and wonder if Holtz" propensity to turn around football programs is only a rumor. 
Holtz himself has said that his honeymoon with Notre Dame could end on Saturday's second play from scrimmage if the fans haven't lost pa­tience after the first. 
So right now patience, that all too scarce virtue, is what this year's edition of the Fightin' Irish need. With so many players seeing their first real game experience this season, mistakes arc bound to occur. Holtz has said that his team will approach every game with a winning attitude, and that's all anyone can ask. 
The media attention has a lot to do with raising expectations. While Notre Dame has always got­ten attention around the country, the attention it's getting now is almost amazing. The media arc corning in from all over for Saturday's game, leaving the prcssbox, which normally seats ap­proximately 275, filled to standing room only. Holtz' weekly press conference was televised over a satellite feed. Sports Illustrated has tenta­tively set aside six pages for a story on Saturday's game in next week's issue. Of the I I games tile Irish play this season, I 0 could be on national television. All of this for a team that finished 5-6 last year. 
And the reason is Holtz, but he says that's more 
of a tribute to those heroes of falls gone by and 
says it is unfair to his players that the press he 
see PATIENCE, page 19 

U ever there wa• a year to ••b•cribe, thu. IS t~e year-Father Hesbargh'•last, Loa Holtz'• first and The Ob•erver's 20th. send to: 
Nome 

Center for Social Concerns paid advertisement-page 1 
Community Service Commissioners 
Alumni Badin  Richard Gund Chris Orosz  240 331  283-1135 283-3946  
Breen-Phillips Carroll Cavanaugh  Ann Curoe Rosemary Marx Mark Drajem Lewis Manglano  239 420 4 5 1  283-1292 283-4104 283-1550  
Dillon  Thomas Kenney  134  283-1680  
Farley  Tracy Schindele 313 Therese Heidenwolf  283-4023  
Fisher  John Conmy  Ill  283-1898  
Grace  Tim Spires  619  283-4073  
Holy Cross  Brian Armstrong  215  283-3134  
Howard  Doug McLaughlin  338  283-2514  
Keenan  Timothy Brennan  113  283-3926  
Lewis Lyons Morrissey Pangborn Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Sorin  Colleen O'Halloran 236 Deborah Dooley 305 Ann Shipman 100 David Shearon 117 Kevin Bianchi 31 Julie Collinge 648 Christine Hartman 243 Brian Farmer 309  283-3701 283-3847 283-2996 283-1914 283-2447 283-3842 283-2907 283-2292  
St. Edward's Walsh  Tom Quast Debbie Darrow  128 110  283-3859 283-2995  
Zahm  Tom Fahey  341  283-1010  

The Senior Reflection Group provides an arena for senior men and women to meet and discuss some common feelings and reflec­tions as they near the end of their four years at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. The group offers them the opportunity both to look back on their college experience and to ar­ticulate their hopes for the future, and provokes students to examine how social concern is and will be integrated into their lives. 
Each group of 12 students --six men and six women --meets five times during the spring semester. The first four sessions are held from 6 to 9 p.m. in the home of a facul­ty or staff host and consist of a meal 
The future is of primary concern to people who live and work in the academic world, The goal of stu­dents is to prepare for "life". As stu­dents move through the tangle of intellectual pursuits they sometimes forget that -while they are "preparing" they are also living. They love and laugh. They are able to find time for parties and dates bet­ween the long nights with the books. They ponder the large questions Qf life while muddling through such details as laundry and roommate problems. It is clear that one cannot wait to live, and the best preparation for life is risking involvement. 
Fortunately, here in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community we have an opportunity to integrate the preparation for life with involve­ment In the real nitty gritty issues that life presents. Through the Center for Social Concerns there are a variety ofservice/social action op­portunities available -over 24 or­ganizations both on and off campus have tailored programs to suit in­volvement by students. 
Some programs demand as little as one night a semester while offering students a new view of the world. Other opportunities are more demanding. They range from working with children to visiting older adults; from repairing the houses ofthe poor and elderly to of­fering CPR instruction and an oppor­tunity to donate blood. Some programs offer students an oppor­tunity to take stands and make state­ments about issues that are important. Some of the service/social action opportunities are organized and regular. Others are one time events that happen in response to an urgent need. Sometimes there is just the place for one student to work in one special area or with one special person. 
The exciting and invigorating ef­fect of these opportunities is that it enables members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community to break out of the protective bubble that surrounds those who are "preparing" for life and allows the wonderful, frightening living· world to invade and color that preparation. 
Group allows reflection 
prepared and paid for by the students followed by discussion. 
The final meeting is an overnight retreat at Lake Michigan or some other place chosen by the group. Past retreats have been a stimulating mixture of fun, serious discussion, and prayer. 
The group belongs to the students, who are responsible for sharing the tasks of shopping, meal preparation and clean-up; selecting topics and leading the discussion, and offering a prayer before the meal. A critical ingredient to the success of a group is student com­mitment to participate fully in all sessions throughout the semester as well as planning the retreat. 
Directory 
Arnold Air Society .••......... 2 Big Brothers......................2 CILA ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••~4 Council for the Retarded .2 Dismas House ...................4 
Fun and Learn...................2 Head Start...•....•................. 3 Justice and Peace ............. .4 Legal Services............•......•2 literacy Center .•..•............2 
Madison Center ................2 Misa en Espanol ...•............ 3 NISDC .•..............•............•.. 2 NSHP ••.••••••••••••••.••••••....•....•.3 Pax Christi..•.•......•.............4 Red Cross ...............•..........2 
Right to Life .......•............... 4 SAS •••••••••••••••••••••••••.•••••••••••2 SAVE•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••2 STEP .........•..........•.............. 3 
Summer Service................ 3 Thomas More Society....•.. 2 
VORP••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••4 
Washington Seminar...•..• .4 World Hunger Coalition . .4 
This four-page special on the Centerfor Social Concerns is a paid advertisement, spon­sored by the esc and the Notre Dame Student Government. 

paid advertisement -page 2 
Center for Social Concerns 
Social involvement adds important new dime 
Council for the Retarded
Local agencies, college groups 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's periods, which take place at Logan Council for the Retarded is one of every Saturday ar 9 a.m. Often the
rely on student participants 
the largest and best known volun· most exhausting and rewarding teer organizations on campus. The i12 hours of the week. "recs" in­
Big Brothers/ alders are present to handle injuries SAVE CFR, in conjunction with Logan clude gym, music, and arts and crafts and assist people in any way pos­Center and the Northern Indiana periods as wen as special activitiesBig Sisters sible. In addition to providing first­State Hospital participates in a wide such as tubing. camping, a zoo trip. a 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre aid stations, the branch operates its Student Advocate Volunteers for variety ofactivity for clients at many farm trip, and a picnic. Monthly Dame and Saint Mary's is a non-profit unique "Quick Response Squ1d." the Elderly is a service organization diJferent levels of ability. These in­ctmces are also held ac Logan. and social service organization primarily Using our blue van in conjunction that helps meet the needs of the el­clude regular programs such as are announced in the Observer. funded by the Notre Dame Student with Notre Dame Security, we are derly in the South Bend area. The Saturday morning recreation, Activities Board, in conjunction able to respond to medical emer­primary work ofSAVE for the last 1 0 weekly bowling and swimming. and Bowling volunteers meet on Friday with the United Way of St. Joseph gencies on campus-.M:tween the years has been to visit the lonely eJ. monthly dances, as well as seasonal afternoon at :\:-i'5 ac PW. For more County. hours of 6 and 11 p.m. and to derly, although in many cases SAVE activities such as skiing. basketball. information on these or other Logan 
Big Brothers/Big Sisters directly provide non-emergency transporta· volunteers have cleaned houses. and Special Olympics. The most programs please call Joe Basque at addresses the needs of a younw;ter tion to the hospital if necessary. shoveled snow and done yard work popular of these arc.: the recreation 283·.2261. in the South Bend community who The ND/SMC Branch also is and other miscellaneous odd jobs. is experiencing uncomfortable available for any disaSter relief "growing pains." These youn&'ters services that may be needed in the Because of the diverse needs of SAS POST GRADUATE demonstrate a need for some kind of St. Joseph County area. the elderly, SAVE offers a warm, 
SERVICE
adult companionship, to supple­Lastly, the ND/SMC Branch rewarding experience to any person Students Assisting Students is ament those within the home. It is provides first-aid training in all areas who has a desire to help others. 
volunteer organization which. in
here that Big Brothers/Big Sisters of lifesaving, including CPR, stan· The Center collaborates with 
Students benefit by working cooperation with the South Bend
makes a match. The purpose is to es­dard and advanced First Aid and others on campus in providing op­through an organization that is part Police Department, runs a shoplift­
tablish a one-to-one relationship to Water Safety. 
portunities for recent graduates andof the Center for Gerontological ing deterrent clinic for juvenile first provide the child with the guidance alumni to explore volunteer service
Education, Research and Services. .offenders. Juveniles between theand friendship needed. 
programs, alternative careers andThis offers the volunteers a wealth of \ages of 12 and 17 are required to at­
Big Brothers/Big Sisters of Notre Literacy Center questions of social concerns related
information, giving them insight tend this four week session in whichDame and Saint Mary's provides a 
to careers. Seniors are encouraged
into society as weU as valuable train· they hear from respected com·setting in which the student and the to explore Holy Cross Associates
The literacy Center, located in St. ing to experience the elderly effi. munity leaders fnd converse in
child can meet and enjoy them­
(HCA), Jesuit Volunteer Corps
Paul's Memorial United Methodist ciendy. .small discussio~ groups. This
selves. Activities range· from 
OVC), Volunteers in Diocesan Ac­
Church, 1001 West Colfax, began program is uniqu~ in that in most
cookouts to rollerskating parties, tion (VIDA), and other programs of­
and add some ~avor to the personal this September to provide illiterate areas of the country, juveniles will adults with an opportunity to ac­merely receive a slap on the wrist for fering graduates the chance to serve
meeting the student and child ex· perience on their own. quire basic learning skills -reading, Lega I Services their offense. lbrough the clinic, within the Church for one or two 
they will hopefully become more years both in the U.S. and abroad.
The Big Brothers/Big Sisters writing, spelling and math. Program represents all back­The assistance of Notre Dame and aware of the harmful effects of shoplifting on both themselves and
grounds. What all big brothers and Saint Mary's volunteers in this sisters share is a desire to help program has been invaluable. The 
the community. Madison Center children through their loneliness, patient, persevering work of these confusion and boredom of youth at volunteers with individuals has been Madison Center. a u>mprehenst\T
Thomas More 
ado~escence., Each student and child admirable and has contributed mental health center providing 
duo is matched based on interests, greatly to the forward thrust of the The Legal Services Program of mental health and substance abuse backgrounds, personalities and Northern Indiana is a private non­The Thomas More Society of services. utilizes volunteers from
program. general compatibility. This es­profit corporation providing free Notre Dame was founded to che community ·in a number of dif· tablishes the foundation for a Because of schedule changes, legal representation to low income promote understanding of More's ft:rent capacities. Volunteer posi· growing friendship. some ofstudents will not find it pos­individuals in northern Indiana. principles,ideals and standards in tions in the following programs are The gift of shared time and sible to volunteer second semester. Legal Services assists people who everyday life. The society serves as a appropriate for scudents interested frl~n<lsh.ip can last a lifetime, and the No doubt, other generous social­cannot afford a private attorney with forum for research, education, and in the mental health field: price is just a few hours a week. minded students will replace them. legal problems in areas such as discussion to foster an awareness Adult Day Treatmenc Pleue share the experience with us Classes at the Center are held housing, public benefits, consumer, and appreciation of More and of Sunrise Program from 1-3 p.m. Monday through health and family law. Sever funding Christian humanism he advanced. Sex offense Services Thursday. Interested students may cutbacks forced Legal Service to Since Notre Dame shares in More's Project C.E.A.S.E.Fun and Learn volunteer for one of these days. The restructure the client interview sys­Catholic Heritage, The Thomas Children's Day Treatment van leaves from the library entrance tem as to provide maximum legal Mores Society studies the wisdom 1\f Training is provided for each The Fun and Learn Program is a representation with minimum per· Roman Catholjcism, a wisdom Mo~ program. Those interested in apply· 
at 1:15. If interested, call Sister sonnel. Volunteer intake workers valued so hJshly that he upheld in~t or receiving funher information
recreation/socialization program Marita or Sister Evodine at 259-5427 for six to 16 year-old children who before 9 p.m. now conduct these client inter· theses principles with bis very life. may contact Laurel Eslinger, coor· are experiencing difficulties in 
views. The Society sponsors regular dinator of Volunteer Services at school. The children have learning 
seminars o·n some contemporary Madison Center. 234-0061 during Volunteers are trained to record issues studied inlight of Catholic morning hours.
disabilities in any or all ofthe follow­

background information for statisti· principles and lectures on some
ing areas: reading, writing, math, cal purposes and financial informa­aspect ofMore's life. lbrough active
memory, coordination, comprehen­
tion for eligibility purposes. The, community services, members ofsion, controlling behavior, organiz­and most importantly, the volunteer the society al!!() teach catechism in
ing, attention span, speech, team 
listens to the client's statements and South Bend, help run a soup kitchenwork, making friends and social capsulizes the legal problem into a downtown, correspond to prisonskills. The program seeks to develop narrative for a staff attorney to inmates and sponsor visits to localself-confidence and self-esteem; and review. Nearly all of the interview­nursing homes.
to challenge children physically and ing done by volunteers is over thementally through recreational ac­telephone.
tivities. It is not a tutorial program. 
Being a volunteer with Legal Arnold Air Society 
Three program teachers plan ac­
Services is interesting and challeng­tivities which focus on the following 
ing work fuU of learning oppor­concepts. RECREATION -team tunities. Arnold Air Society is a community work and cooperation. SOCIAliZA­service organization within Air 
TION -appropriate behaviors, per­Force ROTC. It is a nationwide or­sonal interaction with volunteers. Northern Indiana State Development Center ganization with many AFROTC AFFECTIVE -communication, ac­detachments across the country ceptance of limitations, coping. The having AAS squadrons. Each year children are divided into two Northern Indiana State Develop­speech. Physical Therapy and Oc· new projects are fhosen. This year groups, by age, to better meet their mental Center is a small residential cupational Therapy programs focus the Joint Nationa! Project ONP) is specific needs and interests. Volun­facility for mentally retarded on the motore development of the POW/MIA Awareness, the National teers are needed every Saturday children and adolescents. The resi­Project is working with the children
r residents. Programs are developed
from 9 to 11:30 a.m. to support and dents of NISDC go to special educa­at the Boys' Club ofSouth Bend.
for head control, sitting, standing,
work with the children as they at­tion classes in schools throughout Each AAS squaddron plans their
walking and proper use of a wheel­
tempt to develop these skills. the south Bend Community. Their own activities in accordance with
chair or walker. Occupational
(Located on Saint Mary's campus, education does not stop in the these projects. This year, the Ben­
Therapy focuses on fine motor and
transportation from Notre Dame is schools, however, as the childr·en jamin D. Foulois Squadron, here at 
sensory integration activities.
provided.) also participate in a variety of train­Notre Dame, is very active in all ing, therapy and recreation at Nor­Recreation comprises a major projects. The members have written thern Indiana State Developmental portion of volunteer opportunities. letters to their congressmen (in ac­Center. Community outin&', leisure skill cordance with the JNP), have been
Red Cross 
training and social events are offerd. attending Cardinal Nursing HomeLocated across from the Univer­
Activiites include ice skating, swim­bi-weekly, helping run such ac­The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's sity of Notre Dame, NISDC offers an ming, horseback riding, parties and tivities as Oktoberfest and BingoBranch of the American Red Cross excellent opportunity for students special events. Specific training Nights and have been visiting the
became an official organization in to become involved in working with programs for skill development such ~oys' Club weekly, involving the
1981 and is under the jurisdictiora of the handicapped as volunteers. Stu­as feeding and self-help skills are also kids in arts & crafts, sports and
the St. Joseph County Chapter ofthe dent volunteers can assist in American Red Cross. The branch programs such as speech therapy, opportunities for volunteer involve­cheerleading. 
r 
currently has 45 members serving physical therapy, occupational 
ment. We also have numerous other 
the ND/SMC community in a variety therapy, recc-ation and training Please consider a volunteer ex­short term projects and necessary r of ways. Pint, we. provide first-aid programs. 1)e ~peceh therapy perience at Northern Indiana State fundraisers. 
r 
stations for both varsity and non­program incorporales training in Developmental Center. Our facility AAS is a great opportunity for all varsity sports, and for certain other various communication methods is dose and convenient for students AF cadets to get involved in com­r events such as An Tostal and the such as sign lan81J118C, symbol and our resident would really enjoy munity service and to have a great Domer Runs. At these evcnu, first-boards and simple conversation having you come. time! 
~ 
Service/Social Ac1 
American Red Cross Peter Jarr Amnesty International ND David Bal Ann Walt Ami-Apartheid Network Margarita Patrick M Arnold Air Society Jim Weye Mike Van1 Big Brothers/Big Sisters John Eust John Lebc CILA Kris Sand Colleen P Circle K Tim Shan Dan Strut 
Council for Fun and Learn Scott BoQ Amy Nies 
Council for the Retarded Dan Cou1 Elizabeth Dismas House Jamie C:u 
Steve Pail 
ECO FLOC Edmond NDISMC Head Start Program Hispanic American Org. jose Vela justice Forum Frank )ol 
Jeff Woo Center for Basic Learning Peter WI 
Chris Ze· Moreau Social Concerns NAACP Dennis 1 NCAA·VFY NISH Jeff Abr~ 
Karen AI NSHP Tom Pig john Bal ODN Sophia 1 
Richard 
Pax Christi Paula Ml Bob Kry Right to Life Kris MuJ 
Michelle SANE SAS SAVE DougW 
SOLA Mary Za Polly M1 STEP Tracy Sc Bob Col Thomas More Society Kurt Pet Jim Gle~ Women United for Peace Amy Zal, World Hunger Coalition Laurie K 
Mark D~ Knights of Columbus Justin La Shelter for the Homeless John Ga 
paid advertisement -page 3
Center for Social Concerns 
1sion to student life 

NCAA Volunteers for youth 
For some Notre Dame varsity ath­letes, the commitment to excel­lence reaches beyond academic and athletic competition. 
For many young people, junior high school is a time ofchange, new responsibilities, loneliness or in­security. 
The Notre Dame/NCAA Volun­teers for Youth is a unique community program that brings together these student-athletes and junior high school-aged youths in special one-to-one friendships. 
Athletes and youths are matched according to mutual interests. Each pair develops a friendship through simple, everyday activities. 
NSHP 
The Neighborhood Study Help Program is the largest volunteer service organization on the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's campuses. We tutor South Bend area school children from kindergarden to the high school level. Each tutor is as­signed one child. The tutor visits the 
Student Leaders 
Moreau Seminary  239-7735  
283·1194  
2483 POW Ct. -I0  272-8214  
122 St. Edward's Hall  283-1799  
203 Alumni Hall  283-1066  
431 Breen-Phillips  283-1364  
London  
1019 E. LaSalle Ave.  287-4601  
117 Morrissey  283-1914  
240 Fisher Hall  283-1982  
229 LeMans Hall  284-5029  
310 Dillon Hall  283-1785  
213 LeMans Hall  284-5013  
521 S. St. joseph St.  233-8522  
521 S. St. joseph St.  233·8522  
315 Carroll Hall  283-4531  
616 W. Colfax  234-5421  
P.O. Box 841  272-8522  
301 Cavanaugh Hall  283-1479  
II5 Holy Cross Hall  283-3115  
904 Planner Hall  283-1523  
521 Planner Hall  283-1081  
13 Grace Hall  283-1788  
232 Dillon Hall  283-1722  
340 Lyons Hall  283-2814  
383 Dillon Hall  283-3746  
345 Lewis  283-4173  
228 Howard Hall  283-2520  
305 Badin  283-3712  
GERAS 616 Mem.  
Lib.  239-6687  
328 Badin Hall  283-3611  
313 Farley Hall  283-4023  
Moreau Semi112.ry  239-7735  
146 Alumni Hall  283-1157  
304 Pasquerilla West  283-2875  
224 Pasquerilla West  283-2906  
420 Carroll Hall  283-4104  
224 St. Edward's  283-1666  

tutoring site twice each week for ap­proximately one hour. This program allows Notre Dame Saint Mary's stu­dents to help children academically as well as socially and emotionalyy. Ttors work at helping the children develop skills they may lack and showing them that learning can be enjoyed in a relaxed informal atmo­sphere. This program offers students a nice break from studying and campus life. 
Questions? Please call Tom Pigott ( 283-1656 ), Martha Massman ( 283­3864), Annie Shaughnessy ( 283­4012) or Connie Lee ( 284-5462 ). 
Head Start 
Head Start is a child development program to give pre-school children 
from  an  economical  and/or  cul­ 
turally  disadvantaged  background  
an  educational  and  social  ex­ 

perience before entering school. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student who take part in the program volunteer in a Head Start classroom one morning each week. They assist the teachers by playing with the children, organizing ac­tivities, reading stories, working one to one with a child in any other needed ways. The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students often serve as much needed role models for many ofthe children. Though it seems like the children are the only ones to reap the benefits ofthe program, our volunteers experience some of the most enjoyable and satisfying times in their college careers. 
SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS 
Over 300 members of the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's community have volunteered for service at the Shelter for the Homeless. 
In its second year of operation, the Shelter welcomes all those who present themselves. The volunteers offer the guests a warm welcome, unconditional regard, and an op­portunity to maintain contact with others who value an individual's in­nate worth and dignity. 
Guests are greeted between 10:30-11:00 p.m. nightly. They are served a hot snack, encouraged to take a shower, and offered a pair of clean socks. Guests are awakened at 6:00 a.m. Breakfast, purchased by the Shelter, is served at Hope Rescue Mission. 
Volunteers are at the Shelter from 
10:00 p.m.-7:00a.m. Because the Shelter's client population includes persons at risk from medical, chemical and emotional stress, volunteers must be thoroughly oriented to both our helping philosophy and our helping strategies. Attendance at a three­hour training session is required. 
STEP 
The Student Tutorial Education Program is dedicated to helping the residents of the South Bend Juvenile Facility to develop both socially and educationally. As tutors, our major goal is to motivate the residents to complete and improve their school­work, and to teach them better study habits; however, the one-on­one structure of the program allows the tutors to develop a special relationship with their assigned resi­dent. The evenings we tutor are Monday and Thursday from 7 to 9. The participants in S.T.E.P. may tutor on either one of these nights ­whichever is more convenient. Transportation to and from the Juvenile Facility is provided for through the Center for Social Con­cerns. 

The Urban Plunge program is a unique learning experience course at the University of Notre Dame which enables students to gain a glimpse of inner-city life -its problems, but also its possibilities. 
It is a 48-hour immersion into the kind of life that most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have never seen. For two days during the first week ofJanuary, students go to ur­ban areas across the nation for brief encounters with persons and or­ganizations working for social justice in the United States. Caring individuais, concerned com­munities and willing agencies allow a new perspective on urban poverty to emerge for those who have had little contact with the unemployed, the homeless, the hungry. 
The Plunge has three goals: 
1. 
To enable students to ex­perience and learn for themselves the problems of injustice, poverty and apathy in the urban areas of the United States. 

2. 
To increase awareness of and contact with persons who are working to improve situations, and to evaluate their strategies. 

3. 
T~.;• gain fresh insights into issues 


Misa en Espanol 
On the first Sunday of every month, while school is in session, the Center works with a group of hispanic students in presenting a Mass celebrated in Spanish. This is done in order to give the hispanic community a cance to worship in ac­cordance with their own cultural traditions as well as offer an oppor-' tunity to non-hispanics to learn and experience these traditions. Celebrants are Spanish speaking members of the Notre Dame com­munity or an occasional visitors from hispanic countries. A special feature of these masses is a choir with guitar accompament. The Mass is held at 11:00 a.m. in Farley Hall Chapel. We invite all Faculty, staff and students to join us in these monthly celebrations. 
Summer Service 
Summer Service Projects are in­tended to provide NO students and Alumni an opportunity to address the injustice of poverty. The pro­jects are available to ND students who will be returning to campus in the fall. Projects last eight weeks during the summer months at sites in cities where there is a sponsor­ing Notre Dame Alumni Club. 1986 SSP sites included Ecuador and Puerto Rico. 
The Summer Service Projects are underwritten by Notre Dame Alum­ni Clubs and the James F. Andrews Scholarships. Social Concerns Scholarships which are tuition credits of up to $1 ,200 are award­ed to the students who apply and are chosen to take part in the SSP program. 
The Center for Social Concerns has more information. Applications for the program are taken in January for the following summer. 
related to future work, study, major. etc. 
Students have both preparatior and follow-up activities regardint the Plunge. An orientatior workshop and directed reading! give students background on poverty and inner-city life. Then stu­dents spend two days of their Christmas vacation at the Plunge site and are responsible for their own ex­penses related to the program. Upon returning to campus, students write a reflection paper about their ex­perience, attend discussion sessions in the homes offaculty and resource persons, and choose one of several follow-up options during the spring semester. Students then receive one hour ofacademic credit. 
PEACE OPPORTUNITIES CONTACTS 
The Peace Opportunities Contacts are a series of representatives from each hall who work with the Center for Social Concerns and Student Government Leaders to provide opportunities for hall residents to learn about and become involved in justice and peace issues. Each month a packet of current information is given to each hall's POC to be posted in the hall; this information covers campus, local, and national events. Also included is information about summer and post-graduate internships and jobs related to peace and justice issues. The NFPJ, which meets once each month, consists of leaders from over 20 cam­pus and local groups who share news and ideas, and offer each other support. Ifyou would like to know more about justice and peace issues or activities, contact your hall's POC. To find out who your hall POC is, talk to your Rec­tor or hall president, or call Dan Keusal at the Center for Social Concerns at 239-7943. 
CULTURAL ARTS SERIES 
This year the Center for Social Concerns is initiating a new Social Concerns Cultural Arts Series. This series will replace, and is an outgrowth of, the Social Concerns Film Series. Through it we plan to move into other creative realms such as dance, theatre, and music to help raise issues of social con­cern. This series is made possible through collaboration with Student Government and co-sponsorships by such organizations as the Office of Student Activities. 
Our inaugural performance will be held Thursday, September 18 at 8:00p.m. in Washington Hall. Don McLeod, the world's foremost modern mime, will perform a series of topical pieces including 'The Creation' which portrays God's creation of the world, humanity's growth in it and its eventual destruction by 'the bomb.' Many people are already familiar with Don through his part as the gorilla in the American Tourister Luggage commercial. Other dates in the series will be announced as the year progresses. 

The Hospitality area provides for­mal and informal opportunities to share the CSC's facilities and resources. In the midst of the library, residence halls and classroom buildings, the Center is a welcoming place for people to gather. CSC hosts University classes, group meetings and meals, educational events, prayer and many other events. 
paid advertisement -page 4 Center for Social Concerns 
Students network for peace and justice 
Groups organize for campus-wide events 
The Network for Peace andJustice is an organization which brings toget· her leaders from various campus and community groups concerned with issues of peace and justice. The Network serves as a clearinghouse for coordinating campus events, alerting groups to opportunities outside the University community, and co-sponsoring major events such as "A Call to Peacemaking Week" during fall semester and the "Peace WithJustice" em· phasis during spring. Membership is also open to individuals who ace con· cecned with these issues and who want to work on the various activities. 

Pax Christi 
According to Pax Christi Interna­tional, "Pax Christi has as its primacy objective 'to work with all people for peace for all humankind, always witnessing to the peace of Chri!it.' Because Pax Christi springs from a Gospel vision of peace. it asks its members to ground their peacemak­ing-in prayer and ongoing reflection on the peace message otJesus.'' 
More specifically, we meet five 
times a month to pray for peace. We 
presently are studying the life of 
Thomas Merton, and plan to have 
Daniel Berrigan come to South Bend 
to speak and give a retreat on Chris­
tian non-violence. 
Please join us for prayer every 
week upstairs at the Center for So­
cial Concerns or at the Grotto, on 
the second Monday of every month 
at 10 p.m. Our forum on non­
violence takes place every other 
Wednesday at 4 p.m. in the Center 
for Social Concerns. 

Allservice organizations will be represented at Student Activities Night. 
mo~e !nfor~tiOJl conaact MacyJane Lotton, Amelia NUIIOZ •or Miguel Mendivil 
Dismas House 
The Dismas House student group is a relatively new project ~orking in cooPc:ration with the Dismas Board of South Bend to establish a community of former prisoners and students. This community would promote bonds of trust and friendship between students and former prisoners and would serve as an unstructured rehabilitation program for the former prisoners who often need to be reconciled with society. Any student who is in­terested in living at Dismas House next fall should Sc:e Kathy Royer at the Center for Social Concerns. 
World Hunger Coalition 
The World Hunger Coalition works to increase education and awareness of hunger issues on campus. Through speakers, films and participation in hunger aware­ness events, we hope to bring the Notre Dame community to a greater understanding ofworld hunger. The Wednesday Lunch Fast Program of­fees students the opportunity to give up one lunch a week, helping others who are hungry thJoughout the world by their weekly fast. The money raised by the fast goes directly to ruraJ development projects in different pacts of the world. WfiC works with the St. Augusti~ Soup Kitchen in South Bend. preparing meals for local 
homeless and hun8fY. Thanbsiving baskets are distributed to hungry families In South Bend with money collected at hall Masses. The Hunger Coalition attempts to look at dif­frcent hunger problems through speakers and question-and-answer se!llliOilli. What can the individual do to help alleviate hunger? What is goln&on to help the hungry In Africa or Latin America? Please join us as we continue to search for ways to help our hungry sisters and brot­hers. 
Right to Life speaks for those who can't 
Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Right to Ufe is a student orpnlzation ded· icated to promoting greater respect for human Ilk at all stages ofits exis­tence. It is our belief that human life is a sacrdgift &om God which bcfPilli at concepdon and ends at natural death, and tba no one bas the right to dcltroy ~gift duouplbonion, lnlandcldc, Clfttaan•••, or any other means. Our CQ~pUSICtivitia focua on cducadc.Jl.· lcplation, fund· raJiin& and~-We lttempt to In· creaK awueoc~~'OI tbc erosion of 
IOdcty'a rcvueoce.for buman lile by and ftNMtl Ill aiCb wroap 11 abordoo OQ demmd, etc. Our c:cluc:8doa1 diJru Wr.e tbc form of lima, ~ lpaiDI:n and tbc llllllntcDIDCe ola Ule llluel Ubnry. We 111pp01t pro-Uie ......tton and anaually lobbr for aucb dudat tbc 
National March for Uk in Wl&ll­hington, D.C. Fund-raisers are im­portant for financing our education activities arid our continued assis­tance to the Women's Care Center/~egnancy Help Center. Most impqnantly, through prayer we are ~minded that being "pro­Ilk" is ·a participation in God's redemptive plan for humankind. 
For tJac community and the in· dividual perso' we arc a group that is conc~ed with social justice. We earnestly desire to sec society regain Ita cespca for the sanctity ofhuman lile. 1brou8b "sidewalk counacllng" In front of tbc lo_cal abortion clinic and our support of tbc work of the Women's Care Center, we 1ttempt to rapond to tbc many nccda of ~t womco wbo are looking for IIOIDCOllC to care. 
VORP 
VORP is a l'nited Religious Com· munity Program headquanered at DuComb Center. I01 S E. Madison St. South Bend. DuComb Center provides alternative sentencing programs and \'ORP fit~ into its program. 
\'ORP is an alternative process available to judges and probation of· fiet·rs for dealing with criminal of· tenders. especially those involved in property offenses. VORP can offer a partial or a total substitute for incar­ceration. 
A trained community volunteer contacts the victim and the offender separately. explains the program. and solicits participation. The l·olun· teer sets and facilitates a face to face meeting in which facts ace reviewed. feelings are aired. and a restitution contract is negotiated. 
For information on volunteering call Daniel Stoltzfus. coordinator, at Bl--tHI ~or .2HH-HI92 
Holy Cross Justice and Peace Center 
The Holy Cross Justice and Peace the: Justice anc.J Peace Center Center is an agency which provides provides for its volunteers from four basic things. The Center dis­Notre Dame and Saint Mary's a com· tributes. with other pril·ate and munitv in which social justice issues public agencies. direct aid to the can be examined, explored, and poor of South Bend. This is done acted upon. The Justice and Peace primarily through rental and utility Center is a community, primarily of biD assistance. The Center coor­volunteers, who seek to learn what it dinates a variety of al·tivities to ed­is to profess a faith that does justice. ucate the people of the South Bend The Center is supported by the area to issues of social justice. The three local provinces of Holy Cross Bail Bond Project. directed by the religious: the Sisters of· the Holy Center. assists the incacl·erated who Cross. the Midwest Province ofHoly are without financial means to post Cross Brothers, anq the Indiana hnmt Fir. · · · ... 1 •nost importanth·. Province of Holy Cross Priests. 
Community for the Lay Apostulate 
CILA. the Community ti.>r the In­ternational Lay Apostulate, was es­tablished in 1961 and isoneofNotre Dame's oldest and most prestigious service organizations. Originally formed as a support group for stu­dents doing service projects interna­tionally. CILA has evolved into a diverse organization. complete with three community servk·e projects and an active Education Committee. And CILA still has students doing summer service projects. 
Locally, CILA students volunteer time at El Campito,.a day care center for children here in South Bend. Stu­dents also travel to Corvilla House, a home for the mentally handicapped. Each year CILA volunteers work at the Justice and Peace Center. 
The Education Committee spon­sors lectures and discussion groups on such topics as economic justice and the troubles ofnorthern Ireland. Students currently ace working on a project with Potawatomi Indians of 
the area, and ace making plans for a winter workshop. 
Other Cll.A activities include Masses and a spring retreat. This past fall we travelled to Appalachia during Christmas break. Last sum­mer we sponsored students who did projects in Puerto Rico and Mexico. 
Thinking globally and acting lo­cally. This is a kind of theme that Cll..A uses. Cll..A holds general meetings approximately every six weeks, and aJI our activities ace al­ways open to anyone interested. 
Exposure to government brings valua51e insights 
"There are many words which come to mind when I try to ex­plain myself fully -incon­gruities, contradictions, etc. Basically I envision a giant puzzle where all the pieces never seem to fit together at once. These incongruities were en­countered at many levels, ran­ging from the appearance of Washington itselfto the very dif· ficult moral and ethical ques­tions one must ponder ifone is to attempt to ltve as both an American and a Christian." 
Kerry Gill (Notre Dame '87) 
believe that Kerry speaks for most of us in characterizing her recent experiences with the Social Concerns Seminar, now in its fifth year. This year 24 students traveled to Washington, D.C. over the fall break to explore the relationships between social concerns, public policy formation and the Catholic traditions concerning peace and justice. 
This year the three issues around which the seminar was organized were South Africa, the nuclear dilemma and the environment and corporate respollliibllity. 
Once apin, Congressman Romano Mazz.Oli~(Notre Dame '54) and his aid, Jane Kirby (Notre Dame '80), provi<kd invaluable assistance in helping tq put together a program which exposed students to elected political officials (Rep. Henry Hyde and Sen. Lugar), government offi· cials, private non-profit organiza· tions (Center for Defense Information, Environmental Defense Fund) and wth·based com­munities (Center of Concern, Sojourners, Network). The local Notrf! Dame Club also extended its hospitality in the form of a Sunday afternoon bacbeque. 
In reflecting upon the week, the students have expressed both a sense offrustration: 
"To conclude, I bate to say thatI was pretty muchfrustrated with the whole thing. It seems we're either going to be polluted to 
death or nuked, and that the blacks in South Africa are going to die anyway." 
And also hope: 
"Enthusiasm might best express. the personalities of both Peter Henrlot and Sister Pinkerton. They seemed to be lir,ingfor their work and workingfor what they believed in. II was very en­couraging to see what strides they bad made. They were ex­amples ofChristian teaching in action, which I feel is the most important aspect of Chris· tianily. They bad seen a need and attempted tn satisfy it by immersing themselves in is.wes and activities which showed Christian concern for the poor and needy." 
I think the root of this frustration came from a sense that many of the men and women that we spoke to had lost touch with the human fac­tor within the reality they ace facing. Speaking ofone such encounter, Sue Yadlon comments: 
"He bad been given certain numbers and their interpreta­tions, took them as basic tenets oflife, and tried to incorporate those into policy. Somewhere along the line, people became numbers, foreign policy became a game, and world destruction became that much more discus-sable, therefore possible." 
But as an important corollary to this feeling was the :.en'le that this human factor has not disappeared from the scene totally, and as a mat­ter of fact, exists very powerfully in 
their own Christian tradition. 
'lhrough the c.:xpc.:rience of this week I feel the students were exposed in a unique and very real manner to some of the very difficult struggles faced by us as we live in this world. 







