The Smiths -page 7 

VOL. XXI, NO. 27 THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1986 an independent student newspaper se"ing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

. J ~ ·~ .. 
~~ ·~ 
) ,, 
,~· 

Sitting on the fountain in front of Nieuwland Science Hall, Tony Frischejams in a late night guitar session. Such moon­light serenades may lead students to express themselves musically more often. 

South African miners stage one-day walkout 
Associated Press white miners. The miners union said 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 325,000 of the nation's 600,000 As many as 325,000 black black miners did not go to work. miners -more than half the Mining companies put the figure workforce -stayed off the job at about 250,000. Wednesday in what union offi­Most mines said they would cials called a powerful display of dock the strikers' pay or take a worker strength in South Africa's 
vacation day from them. largest industry. 
Jay Naidoo, general secretary 
The one-day walkout, called to of the Congress of South African protest the 177 deaths in a Sept. Trade Unions, said about 16 fire at the Kinross Gold Mine, 275,000 workers in other indus­cost the mines an estimated $3.6 
tries held memorial services, in­million, according to an aca­
cluding hour-long stoppages.demic monitoring group. 
"This shows the extent to 
"This worker action is unpar­which the miners' union is rep­alleled in South African labor his­resentative of the miners, and tory and demonstrates the im­the support it is able to muster," portance of worker safety at the Naidoo said. "It also demon­work place," said Marcel Gol-strated that health and safety ding, spokesman for the have also become an issue." 250,000-member National The Chamber of Mines, the in­Union of Mineworkers. dustry association, had called for 
"The whole theme was that this five minutes of silence at noon was an accident which could in I 00 gold and coal mines' have been prevented," Golding nationwide. The union said that said of the deadly fire, the na­was not adequate. tion's worst gold mining acci­Mining companies refused to dent. estimate the cost of the protest. 
Fumes from burning materi­The Labor Monitoring Group als, including a polyurethane based at the University of the Wit­foam used to line the tunnels but watersrand estimated the cost at banned in American and British $3.6 million, based on its count mines, are suspected in the that 250,000 to 275,000 miners deaths of the 172 black and five stayed away from work. 

Students' awareness of rights tops Judicial Council agenda 
By BUD LUEPKE gal Services Committee which is tors ideas for fitting a judicial Copy Editor preparing the letter, said a board to their dorms, the com­similar letter prepared last year mittee chairman said. The Judicial Council is working received only two responses, but The Publicity Committee said
toward greater student aware­that this year's letter would be it would soon publish ads to let
ness of their rights and options reworded. 
students know more about their
regarding University violations, judicial board's activities as well
according to the council's 
The Judicial Council also voted as Judicial Council business.
second meeting of the year held unanimously for the publication Cintron said she will send a let­
last night. of 3000 new students' rights ter to all resident assistants. The Judicial Coordinator Maria pamphlets. The pamphlet will be letter, said Cintron, will encour­Cintron said the general meeting a brief du Lac abstract devoted age them to refer students who was called to hear the various exclusively to students' rights are in trouble with the University committee reports. "We wanted and penalties concerning rooms, to her. Cintron said she can ad­to check to see how everything possession ofcars and academic vise students on the best course is going, to touch base. Most of dishonesty. Cintron reported of action and prepare them the work is going on in the com­that the cost ofpublication would before they meet with the Office mittees," Cintron said. be $800. of Student Affairs. The Committee on Rector Re­A letter requesting legal aid at lations discussed plans for a The Judicial Council is com­cut rates with alcohol violations meeting for new rectors with vet­posed ofthejudicial board chair­or misdemeanors will be sent to eran rectors. Experienced men from each hall and one off­over a hundred lawyers. The Le-rectors would offer the new rec-campus member.. 
South African minister threatens to curtail purchases of U.S. grain 
Associated Press Lugar said Botha also declared Thursday afternoon, opened a 
that South Africa would react to four-hour debate on the issue as 
WASHINGTON -The South the override of the veto by bar­Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, African (oreign minister warned ring from its ports U.S. grain R-Kan., said senators might two U.S. farm state senators his shipments bound for the so­legitimately consider the possi­country would immediately end called frontline black African ble adverse impact of sanctions purchases of U.S. grain if the nations, some of which are on their states. Senate overrides President landlocked and all of which are Dole said the South Africans 
Reagan's veto of economic sanc­largely dependent on South have in the past bought 
tions against South Africa, Sen. Africa for transportation "substantial quantities" of wheat 
Richard Lugar said Wednesday facilities. and corn. "I do believe that 
night. "I believe that all Americans, makes the point .. . that there 
Lugar, R-Ind., called the action and especially American farm­may be some consequences by Foreign Minister Pik Botha ers, will condemn foreign bribery some people in our states, farm­"despicable" and an unaccepta­and intimidation to change the ers, may have to contend with." ble intrusion into Senate busi­votes of the U.S. senate," Lugar ness that amounts to "bribery said. Helms said sanctions will and intimidation." 
He said South Africa has "shoot the American farmer in turned to the American grain the foot." And he confirmed that Lugar, chairman of the Senate market and increased purchases "Pik Botha called me and several Foreign Relations Committee, of U.S. grain in the aftermath of other senators and said, 'We will said the two senators -Edward sanctions imposed by Canada have to announce we will cease Zorinsky, D-Neb., and Charles and Australia, which also are to purchase U.S. grain ifthe pres­
Grassley, R-lowa, -were called to major grain exporters. ident's veto is overridden."' 
the telephone in the Senate Re­Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R­publican cloakroom by Sen. "We are being bribed because Kan., said Pik Botha also told Jesse Helms, R-N.C., a strongop­others have had moral courage senators that South Africa will ponent of the sanctions. and done what they should have purchase more U.S. wheat if the 
done," Lugar said. veto is sustained. 
According to Lugar, Zorinsky Lugar said he believes the Earlier in the day, Reagan 
said the South African foreign White House lacks the votes lobbied senators uy telephone in 
minister told him that "the mo­needed to sustain the Reagan a final push to preserve his veto 
ment that you override President veto and said, "I feel confident ofsanctions aimed at pressuring 
Reagan's veto, South Africa will the veto will be overridden." the South African government to 
immediately ban U.S. grain im­The Senate, which was to vote abandon the system of apar­
ports. " on whether to override the veto theid. 



---~--~---------------------------------------------­


In Brief 
Craig Gundersen, the Grace Hall freshman struck by a car early Saturday, was released from St. Joseph's Hospital Tues­day, said Jim Cunnar, Gundersen's roommate. Gundersen, 
I 8, will likely be in the infirmary for the rest of the week.­The Observer 
University librarians fear the impact of budget cuts at the Library of Congress, where reductions in cataloging and the acquisition of foreign books could seriously impair their abil­ity to make research materials available to scholars. Most 
U.S. libraries are dependent on the Library of Congress for cataloging, so a decline in its volume ofactivity effects nearly all libraries. -The Observer 
Election results for Saint Mary's freshman class officers have produced a runoffof 7 students for .3 positions. Doreen Brown and Megan Hines meet in the runoff for president, while a three-way runoff for vice president features Julie Flemming, Jennifer Murdock and Sheila O'Donnell. Elizabeth Ehret and Maria Zarko will compete in the runoff for treasurer. The election runoff will be conducted on Friday, Oct. .3, from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. at Haggar College Center. Winners of the election for Freshman General Council are Dee Favia, Laura Galus, Lisa Kline, Sue Luranc, Colleen McCarthy, and Jan Mihld. 
Of Interest 
The OCN is holding a mandatory organizational meeting tonight for all hall representatives. The meeting is at 6 p.m. and will be held at The Observer office on the .3rd Floor of Lafortune Student Center. 
The Feast of Saint Francis will be celebrated at Notre Dame this weekend with several events, including tonight's showing of the film "Brother Sun, Sister Moon," the story of the saint's life. The film will be shown at 7 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. On Friday, a vigil mass for the feast will be held at 5: 15 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. -The Observer 
A Curslllo weekend for men will be held today through Sunday and a Cursillo weekend for women will be held November 20 to 2.3. Held in South Bend, the weekends begin at 7 p.m. Thursday and end at approximately 8 p.m. on Sunday. Mem­bers of the local diocese who are interested may obtain more information by contacting Glenn Terry, 2614 MacArthur Drive, South Bend, Ind. 46615. -The Observer 
The National College Internship Service (NCIS) of New York assists undergraduate and graduate students to obtain indi­vidually designed internships in their major fields during sum­mer 1987 and Decembet!January lntersession 1986-1987. Placements are available in New York City, Long Island, and Westchester. Early application is essential. For more infor­mation, contact the National College Internship Service, .374 New York Avenue, Huntington, N.Y. 1174.3, (516) 549-927.3. On campus, information is available through the Career and Placement Services Office. -The Observer 
All Seniors attending the trip to Jamaica must have either a voter's registration card or a certified birth certificate. Pas­sports are also acceptable. -The Observer 

Weather 
The future is cloudy as today offers a 40 percent chance of showers with highs in the low to mid 70s. Tonight and tomorrow feature an increasing chance of showers with lows in the low 60s and highs in the low to mid 70s. 

The Observer 

Design Editor . ........... Andy Saal Design Assistant ......... Bob White Layout Staff. ......... Heidi Traxler Typesetters ............ Sean Sexton News Editor . ....... Ann Kaltenbach Copy Editor . .......... Regis Coccia Sports Copy Editor. Marty Strasen (W) .................. Terry Lynch (S) 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and ,·a.atiun periods. The Observer is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All "reproduction rights are reserved. 
Viewpoint Layout . ...... alice Groner Accent Copy Editor . Caroline Gillespie Accent Layout ....... Mary Reynolds Typists ............... Colleen Foy ND Day Editor . ......... Bill Herzog SMC Day Editor . . Theresa Harrington Photographer ........... Greg Khos 

Crime, not student parties, tops neighborhood problems 
The South Bend Tribune printed an editorial Tuesday concerning underage Notre Dame stu­dents and Indiana's 21 drinking law which I feel was rather hypocritical. I won't even get into argu­ments against the current naive and inflexible con­servative American attitude which is the root of such impractical laws eliminating the rights of adults age 18 to 20 to consume alcohol. The law's poor success in curbing alcohol abuse and con­sumption among people under 2 I speaks for it­self. 
No, what really bothers me about the editorial titled "N.D. and drinking" is its argument that off­campus drinking parties are a genuine nuisance to residents of the northeast neighborhood. That is undoubtedly true; I'm not trying to persuade anyone that noise until dawn and beer cans litter· ing his yard the following morning is desirable. 
No, what bothers me is specifically this para­graph: The South Bend Police Department and state excise police are following a much sterner policy (about cracking down on student parties in the northeast neighborhood) this year. Stu­dents should try to understand that this approach is a response to citizen complaints. Police are paid to protect those citizens. That protection includes doing something about unacceptable noise, un­ruly behavior, littering and even public urination. Few of those complaining would wish this prob­
· 
lem visited on their own families. Yeah, and I'd bet few of those students com­plaining also have families who rob their neigh­bors. I'm so glad the South Bend Tribune is worried about protecting those citizens of the northeast neighborhood from us dastardly students. I mean, if those citizens weren't able to get their eight hours sleep, they might not be alert enough to steal our stereos, jewelry and kitchen appliances from our rented houses. Remember, the Tribune says "Police are paid to protect those citizens." Paid from what? The gains of illegally acquired goods? I realize it's not fair to generalize. Not every resident of the northeast neighborhood is a thief. Just some of them. South Bend residents might be more upset over student parties than about the rampant crime in the area because students are transient. Maybe students don't pay city property taxes (although those who hold jobs pay income taxes). but the large economic support base the University pro­vides South Bend more than compensates for that point. I doubt anyone would argue that students should be denied police protection because they are not permanent residents of the area, but it sure seems the South Bend Tribune believes crime is not as serious a problem as student parties. Otherwise they would have printed an editorial that might have said something like this: 
~----------------------------------------~--­
FONDA-U FONDUE PARLOR EXPIRES 
100 Center 
Mllheweb .ZSS·1526 12/13/86 
DIVIDEND TO BEARER _..;,FO....;:..;.U:.:.R.:;.DO.:;.LLA=..::;:.:RS:_________S oi.OO 

This check Is worth $4.00 off the purehese of • Totel ComblnetiOff" Dinner for 2. Not velld with eny other promotlonel offer. Velld Tueldey through Friday Dinner only 

L----~~--------------------------------------~ 




SWEENEY 
Dally and Nightly Specials with free munchies 
Monday thru Friday 4:00-7:00 pm 
Monday thru Saturday 
10:00 pm ·Close 

Mary Jacoby 
Accent Editor 

. ·'· 

Citizens should try to understand that this (police crackdown on crime in the northeast t1eighborhood) is a response to student com­plaints. Police are paid to protect those students. That protection includes doing something about unacceptable crime, frequent breaking and enter­ing into private residences, rocks thrown through windows, vandalism to student cars and even public flaunting of stolen goods. Few of those complaining would wish this problem on their own families. 
Numerous students in the northeast neighbor­hood have been victims of crime. One house of students reported $7,000 worth of jewelry and other items stolen. They also said one of the thieves returned later with a piece of their jewelry and tried to sell it back to them. I, personally have had a trunk I left in a friend's basement over the summer completely ransacked by burglars. The house I left it in has rocks thrown through its windows regularly. 
Admittedly, parties and their aftermath are dis· turbing nuisances to the families who live near students. Ideally. students should keep the volume on their stereos down and make sure everyone is inside for a party instead of loitering on the street. But the crime in the area is just as bad, and losing a special gold bracelet or a hard­earned stereo is a terrible thing. 
To the South Bend Tribune, I say there are two sides to an issue which they seem to consider cut-and-dried. 
Join our "Around the World with 80 Beers" Club 
Phone 2n-6368 6402 Grape Road Across from University Park Mall on Grape Road 
Thursday, October 2, 1986 -page 3 
The Observer 

Daniloff cites Reagan's concern as key to release and homecoming 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Nicholas Daniloff told President Reagan Wednesday that if it hadn't been for Reagan's "very deep and per­sonal interest" in his case, he probably would have been kept in the Soviet Union for years. 
Reporter Daniloff, spending his first full day in the United States, met brieny with Reagan at the White House before the two made a joint appearance in the Rose Garden. They were joined there by Nancy Reagan, who stood next to the reporter, and Daniloff's wife, Ruth, and Daniloff's children, Miranda, 23, and Caleb, 16. 
Reagan defended the arrange­ment with the Soviets that led to Daniloff's freedom, saying: "I don't think there's caving in at all." Daniloff had been arrested Aug. 30 by the KGB and charged with spying in the Soviet Union. 
Asked whether U.S.-Soviet re­lations are back on track with Daniloff's release, the president said, "We'll find out in about I 0 days." That was a reference to the planned meeting in Iceland Oct. I 1-12 between Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. 
The meeting, described as pre­liminary discussions to a formal summit, was part of the deal en­ding in Daniloff's release. 
Daniloff, 5 I, praised Reagan for his involvement in the case. 
"This is a very complex situa­
tion and ifit hadn't been for Pres­
ident Reagan taking a very deep 
and personal interest in my case 
it would probably be some years 
before I could stand in front of 
you and say, 'Thank you, Mr Pres­
ident'." 
Earlier, Daniloff was given a 
warm welcome by co-workers in 
the lobby atrium at U.S. News & 
World Report. He said he was 
pleased with the "mini-summit" 
between the superpower leaders 
in Iceland, and wanted to cover 
it. 

"''m awfully, awfully moved," 
Daniloff said after the rousing 
welcome from colleagues who 


ironwood liquors 
1725 North Ironwood South Uend 272·7144 
Notre DaDie Avenae ApartDients 
NOW IIENIJNG FOR FAIL 
Completely furnished, balconies, laundry, and off-street parking. On site management & malntenence, aU deluxe features 
~loH· in ht.·fc ll"t.· 1011186 and .t.:t.·t 
ONE MONTH FREE RENT Oftkeati28NDAYI 
134''"' 
CaiiAaytbM 

~---------------·---­
111 ALUMNI ====; 


i!:CLUB 
THURSDAY: Band -Lake Effect Bud/Bud Light Drafts $.75 
FRIDAY: 

Lunch 1 1 :30 -1 :30 {must be 21 } Night-Alabama Slammers $1.25 
clapped, cheered and extended their hands. "I didn't know so many people worked here." 
Daniloff said he would thank Reagan and the American offi­cials "who, I think, turned them­selves inside out" to secure his freedom. He was arrested in Mos­cow Aug. 30 on espionage charges, which the administra­tion said were phony. 
The principal lesson Daniloff said he learned from his experi­ence was that the American sys­tem emphasizes the precious­ness and the dignity of a single individual. 
The journalist arrived in the United States Tuesday, a day after Washington and Moscow worked out a multi-part deal that included a Reagan-Gorbachev meeting in Iceland Oct. I 1-12. 
The arrangement also called for the release of accused spy Gennadiy Zakharov to the Soviets. Zakharov, a Soviet em­ployee at the United Nations, new back to Moscow after he pleaded no contest to espionage charges. 
Clarification 
A quote by Lisa Lawler in yes­see that men are out of the terday's Saint Mary's Program­dorms. Itwould not be the res­ming Board article was un­ident assistants' responsibil­clear. She said that under the ity. Lawler said, "It (the parie­proposed revision of parietals tals honor system) works at at Saint Mary's, it would be the Notre Dame, why couldn't it student's responsibility, work here?" based on an honor system, to 

SMUSCHOOL OF LAW 
Dallas, Texas 
Professor Regis W. Campfield, BBA, Notre Dame; LL.B., University of Virginia; Chairman ofthe Notre Dame Estate Planning Institute, will be on campus 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7 
from 7 to 9 pm in Rooms 104 and 104A of O'Shaugn­essy Hall to talk with students about admission and financial assistance. All interested students are welcome to meet with Professor Campfield during this time. 

e 
• I 2


THE XEROX PC 
Standard Features Include: 
-PC Compatible -256KRAM -8MHz Processing Chip -2 Floppy Drives (DS/DD) -Parallel and Serial Ports -7 Expansion Slots Keyboard &Monocrome Display -MS DOS3.1 with SCREENMATE -EXCEL Self-Paced Training -Graphics Chip 
List Price $2604 ND Price $992 
... thru 10-31-86 Price applies to students, staff and faculty Call Today for a Demonstration 
Neil Murphy, Acct. Executive Xerox Corporation 1657 North Commerce Drive, Suite 11-A . South Bend, Indiana 46628-1596 
•. 

232-6928 • 
I =,;


r. I V 
Researchers develop new AIDS drugs 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Two new ap­proaches to fighting the AIDS virus, including a drug ordinarily given to arthritis victims, have provided encouraging but pre­
liminary  results,  researchers  
said Wednesday.  
D-penicillamine,  a  medicine  

used against severe rheumatoid arthritis, blocked the AIDS virus from reproducing when given to infected but outwardly healthy men. 
"We are approaching this as a way to protect people who are currently infected" but have not yet developed the disease, said Dr. Richard Schulof of George Washington University. 
The doctors gave the drug for six weeks to five homosexual men who had swollen lymph glands but no other AIDS signs. Three of them remained free of· the virus for six weeks after they stopped taking the drug. 
A major drawback of the therapy, however, was its sup­pression of the men's T -cells, the same variety of white blood cells that are attacked by the AIDS virus. T-cells are key compo­nents of the body's immune sys­tem. 
"This is a very preliminary study, but it clearly showed anti­viral activity," said Schulof. "We are trying to find a dose that is more tolerable on a long-term basis." 
The study was presented at a meeting of the American Society for Microbiology, along with a report on another new AIDS drug that has not yet been tested on people. 
This medicine, called CS-85, appears to work similarly to AZT, the first drug found to change the course ofAIDS. Dr. Raymond Schinazi, who developed CS-85 at Emory University, said it ap­pears to be less toxic than AZT. 
Although it doesn't cure the disease, AZT prolongs victims' lives and reduces the over­whelming infections that result from the destruction of their im­mune systems. However, AZT also suppresses bone marrow cells that produce blood cells. 
Schinazi said that in the test tube, CS-85 is as effective as AZT at halting the AIDS virus. And it appears to be I 0 to I 00 times less toxic. 

~UABLE COUPON VALUABLE COUPON 

OCNreps announced 
Hall representatives for the Observer Campus Network have been chosen, according to Frank Malone, OCN manager. Malone an­nounced the following individ­uals will represent halls at Notre Dame: Melanie Newlon, Badin; Jenny Healy, Breen­Phillips; Caroline Aylward, Far­ley; Maura Mandyck, Lewis; Nancy Horas, Lyons; Chris Caponigri, Pasquerilla East; Usa Hollenbeck and Diane Dutart, Pasquerilla West, Mic­helle Soper, Walsh; Bob · DeBroux, Alumni; Marty Debenedictis, Carroll; Clay Hamlin, Cavanaugh; Pat Creadon, Dillon; Pete Kiernan, Fisher; Regis Coccia, Flanner; Jack Lee, Grace; Miguel Ladao, Holy Cross; Bill Her­zog, Howard; Pete Hartweger, Keenan; John Failor, Mo;r!s­sey; Jeff Laurenson, Pangborn; Xavier Wynn, Saint Edward's; Chris Donnelly, Sarin; Joe Aubuchon, Stan-, ford. 
At Saint Mary's, the follow­ing individuals will represent the OCN: Megan Martin and Shannon McMahon, Augusta; Halane Young and Sue Langworthy, Holy Cross Hall; Danielle Kleinrichert and Susie Ness, LeMans; Missy Czuchan and Becky Davis and Margaret Devine, McCandless; Maria Dati and Jackie Benchik and Patty Sullivan, Regina. 
Representing off-campus students will be John Lutz. 



$556 billion package kept intact by Senate 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Senate wrestled Wednesday with the major spending bill of the new fiscal year, but the coming U.S.­Soviet summit was dampening prospects for speedy enactment. 
Trying to finish work by next week to head for the campaign trail, the Senate was keeping its $556 billion spending package clean ofamendments. In a series of votes, it turned down proposals to add a sweeping new farm program, seniority protec­tion for airline employees and new rules for tenant­management of public housing. 
Majority Leader Bob Dole, R­Kan., said he wanted to pass the bill by the weekend, so compro­mise talks with the House could be completed early next week. Congress has given itself until Oct. 8 to approve the spending program for fiscal 1987, which began Wednesday, under a stop­gap spending measure signed into law by President Reagan. 
However, it appeared a House­Senate detente would be difficult and an extension of the tempo­rary measure would be neces­sary. House Democrats were in­sisting on including in any compromise at least some of the series of arms control amend­ments contained in their $562 billion version of the bill. 
Republicans said news of the summit made it imperative that Congress not tie Reagan's hands. He meets with Soviet 

~****************************t 
tENTREPRENEUR SOCIETYt 
•t OrganizationalMeeting •t t TONIGHT t 
• Room 122 Hayes Healy • • 7pm • 
• All students interested and actively participating • 
• are encQuraged tQ aHend. iC
. 
~*****************************j ~ 

leader Mikhail Gorbachev 
Iceland on Oct. I I and I 2. 

Rep. Les Aspin, D-Wis., chair­man of the House Armed Ser­vices Committee, said the sum­mit announcement had stalled talks with the Senate over the arms control language. "It's at an impasse," he said. 
The House approved provi­sions called for a ban on testing. nuclear weapons so long as the Soviets didn't hold tests, adher­ence to the SALT II treaty, a freeze on spending for the "Star Wars" missile defense program, a hold on anti-satellite weapons tests and a ban on chemical weapons. 
IAMERICAN 9CANCER 
I fsoaETY~• ­

As October break approaches, students are busy making travel plans. Jim Behling, right, and Kim McNaughton sign up to attend a trip to Wisconsin with the Wisconsin Club. 


---~----­
Thursday, October 2, 1986 -page 5
The Observer 

Water logged 
Illinois Governor James Thompson wades through high water as he inspects areas ravaged by heavy flooding. Northern 
TI-lE TI-IOMAS J.  Presents  
\ V lHITE CENTER WFORLAWANO  a lecture by  
GOVERNMENT  Professor Edward M. Gaffney  

 Loyola Law School, Los Angeles  
on  

"The Religion Clauses: Disentangling Entanglement and Relieving the Tension" 
Fridav. October 3 at NOON Room 101 Law School 

',, ,. Stepan Center ~Court Time Requests 

For Basketball/Volleyball Are Due Today At The Student Activities Office 3rd Floor LaFortune 
If you haven't picked up a request form, please stop by Student Activities today. 
211 

Thursday &Friday 18 and OVER NIGHT! 
We give it to you Exactly as you expect it! 
Music to suit ALL tastes 
1600 ft. dance floor 4000 watts of sound Open 9pm -2am Thursday 
9pm -3am Friday 
--------------------~------­
$1.00 off entrance fee 
259·1900 
Chicago suburbs have suffered extensive damage during the past week. Details of the flooding are covered in story at right. 
·"CCJQowerrg {;orr aQQ or.cagio~g 
Come in and Browse 
327lincolrtway 232-3354 



Over 3,500 homeless in Midwest flooding 
Associated Press 
More rain fell Wednesday across the Midwest and Plains, where nooding has left more than 3, 500 people homeless, and Oklahoma's National Guard was asked to help in one county where "some people are cut off and trapped." 
A partially ruptured dam in Wisconsin remained standing but leaking, and hundreds were believed still away from their homes in nooded northeastern Montana, but the water was receding in some communities. 
HAIRCUT 
SPECIAL!! 

Guys and Gals $10 
Monday-Thursday with Beth and Leslee 
ND/SMC students only 
703 Uncolnway West, Mishawaka (across from Hacienda) 
255-6500 
Curtis!f)
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMathes 
VCR & ONE MOVIE (FREE) OVERNIGHT 
$9.95 

1. Purchase Plans 2. Rent to Own 3. Lease 

Movie Club * SPECIAL BONUS * 
First 25 People To Come In To Our Showroom With This Certificate Will Receive A FREE 
Gift. 
12 W. Edison Rd. Mishawaka 
256·0226 

55011 Mayflower South Bend HOME ENTERTAINMENT CENTER 
*N4~~..,~8348 

One man died Wednesday 
when he was swept from his 
stalled pickup on a bridge in 
Oklahoma, and another was mis­
sing and presumed dead in Illi· 
nois. One person died last week 
in Montana. 

One Kansas man spent the 
night in a tree after his car was 
washed away. 

Flood-ravaged northeastern Il­
linois gotgentle rain Wednesday, 
but 2 to 3 inches fell during the 
morning in hard-hit Oklahoma, 
and southern Missouri got 5 
inches. Heavy rain also fell in In­
diana and Ohio. The National 
Weather Service reported three­
day totals or up to 15 inches in 
parts or northeastern Oklahoma, 
nearly half the usual annual 
precipitation. 

A hole in the earthen portion 
of a dam on Lawrence Lake near 
Westfield, Wis., expanded Wed­
nesday, then stopped growing as 
the lake level dropped after nood 
gates were opened. 

Nearly 200 residents or 
Westfield, a town of about 1,000 
people, allowed to return home 
Wednesday, were ordered out 
again in the afternoon, then let 
back home again after the hole 
stopped growing. They were first 
ordered out Tuesday out of fear 
that the concrete slab forming 
the lake side of the dam would 
not hold. 

Water coming through cracks 
in the concrete had eroded a hole 
estimated at 65 feet by 25 feet 
in the earth piled against the face 
of the dam. 
Asbestos to be removed from schools 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Congressional negotiators agreed Wednesday on legislation ordering the safe but costly removal of cancer­causing asbestos from up to 30,000 public schools around the country. 
"This is landmark legislation," said Sen. Robert Stafford, R·Vt., chairman of the Environment Committee. "This will be a big victory for the country." 
"This is the sleeper environ­mental legislation of the year," said Rep. James Florio, 0-N.J., the chiefHouse negotiator on the 
t.ill. "We've been able to get it with bipartisan support and cooperation." 

Within hours, the House en­dorsed the legislation, a compro­mise version of separate plans passed by the House and Senate to strengthen efForts to end health threats to as many as 15 million children and 1.5 million school employees. 
Stafford, speaking at a news conference, predicted easy Sen· ate approval within a week. but the bill's future with the Reagan administration was another mat· ter. 
The Environmental Protection Agency issued a statement sup­porting the bill's goals but listing its reservations about its "many regulatory requirements." EPA said it would decide in the next few days whether to recommend a veto to President Reagan. 
EPA currently only requires that public schools be inspected for the presence of crumbling and unstable asbestos, which can release airborne fibers that over a length of time cause a va­riety of lung ailments, including cancer. 

"ieVV~_O_i_n__t_____________T-hurs~day,o-ctob-er2,_1986~-pa~ge6 
Money and prestige can dominate job hunting 
I got back a lot of my perspective on my future career there in that funeral home, perspective that had once been firmly implanted in my idealistic mind but had been lost in the day-to-day workings of my law firm before I had even gotten out ofschool. I re-discovered that helping the client really is what being a lawyer is all about, no matter how distant the client seems from behind the desk. 
Now, today, as I sit down to plan tor more interviews, that perspective tries to sneak away again. The temptation of the big dollar sometimes makes me turn to the salary section of the tlrm resumes rather than to the section that describes the atmosphere of the firm or the kind of work it does. The temptation ofa pres­tigious tlrm pulls me away from the simplicity of my Hoosier roots and toward the hidden traps of the big city. 
I don't want to make my career decision based on how much money I'm going to be making or how famous my new firm is. I'm not crazy, either -I'd be lying if I said salary won't be a factor in my final choice. Ijust don't want it to be the factor that determines how I finally decide. Still, the temptation to go for the big money haunts me, and I can't figure out why. Maybe if I took off this damn red tie ... There, that's more like it. 
Recruiting season is back in full swing and all those people you see out there running around in dark suits, white shirts and red "power" ties are just us law stu­dents, desperately trying to get a job... finally. 
With the possible exception of final ex­ams, recruiting season has to be the most fustrating, least enjoyable time of year on campus. Even the last five football seasons didn't curdle as many stomachs as one good, solid week of interviews. The haircuts, the dresses, the polished shoes ... they're all signs that students' priorities have suddenly shifted. 
Mike Wilkins 

here, there and back 
Something crazy happens to our brains when we're on the job hunt. I've never made more than six dollars an hour in my life but I recently found myself whining because a tlrm I was interested In was only paying $30,000 a year. I have no idea what it's like to make $30,000 a year and no idea why I would ever think that wasn't enough money for me to get started on. My father probably makes about $30,000 a year and he's taking care of a wife, two kids, three cars, a house, a lake cottage, and a fat cocker spaniel. My goal when I get out of school is to have enough money to buy season tickets to see the Indianapolis Checkers' games. I think $30,000 will probably cut it. 
The worst thing about interviews is that as soon as anybody mentions the word 'job," we all tend to forget everything we've every learned here. I don't mean we can't remember which side is the as­sets and which side is the liabilities, I mean we forget the way we've been taught to use what we've learned when we finally venture out there beyond Juniper Road. Suddenly money and prestige and perks become more important than having a good job and doing a good job at it. 
It's easy to lose your perspective when you're on the job market or even after you're on the job. Principles become fuzzy when they're pushed beyond the desire to excel and the struggle to the top. Sometimes it's hard to remember just what exactly you're doing. Clients be­come job numbers and co-workers be­come obstacles to success. 
I had a rough experience that really put 
the perspective back into what I was doing 
this summer. I was clerking at a law tlrm 
in my hometown and was assigned a fairly 
broad range of cases. I a_)most always 
spoke of my cases according to the legal 
theory involved in each. The client, who 
was the real reason I was doing all this 
work to begin with, was essential only as 
far as he gave a title to the case I was 
working on. I knew the names of all my 
clients and had met or spoken to most 
of them as well. But to some degree they 
were't really people, they were just legal 
theories. 
One of my cases involved a client who had been ripped off in a contract for the 
P.O.BoxQ
I 

Ridiculously large lines make eating difficult 
Dear Editor: 

I would like to use this opportunity and public forum to extend a heartfelt thanks to the anonymous administrative whiz who, thinking only of the students in the finest Judea-Christian tradition of self­lessness, designed Notre Dame's dining hall system. When I and countless thousands of other equally gluttonous students swarm towards a despicible, or­giastic feeding frenzy after 12:05, we are saved from our own base, self-destructive cravings by a system which forces us to recognize the emptiness and bankruptcy of unchecked lust for sustinence. A huge crowd daily gathers at the dining hall clamouring for entrance and hedonistic 
Doonesbury 

consumption. The stalwart system, however, resists the pressure of these masses and admits only a tricke of stu­dents. The food-crazed youths, who often face a 1: 15 class, become discouraged by the size of the crowd and abandon their vile, contemtable mission. 
Some leftists may claim that enforced good behavior strips the individual offree will and cheapens the significance of the good act. I scoff at these lilly-livered secularists who would sell our futures for a vat ofveal marango. The furtherance of moderate living is a noble achievement regardless of the means. 
Thanks again to that far-sighted admin­istrator and the system he created. 
Eoghan McGill Howard Hall 

sale of some animals. I had met with the 
client a couple of times and had spoken 
to him over the phone. Yet, he wasn't 
really real. I never spoke of his case as 
"Mr. X's case," but always as "the 
negligent misrepresentation case." The 
client wasjust the guy to whom the theory 
applied. 

One day toward the end of summer, this client's 16-year-old son was killed in a freak automobile accident. The attorney who was handing the case was out of town, so I had to go to the funeral home to represent the firm. It was, without question, the worst thing I had to do all summer, but it taught me more about being a lawyer than probably anything I could ever do in the office or in the library. 
The funeral home wasn't filled with doc­uments and exhibits and depositions. It wasn't even filled with the defendant, the opposing counsel or the witnesses. It was tllled with people -real people, my 
people, my client included. He was no longer just a legal theory, he was a real man, a man with a family he loved, a man with regular everyday problems just like myself. For some strange reason, I had never thought of him as just a regular man, a guy who goes home and sits down at the dinner table with his family each night or sits up wondering what time his kids will be in. But I saw him consoling other members of his family, I remem­bered that all summer I had been representing a man, not just a legal the­ory. 
IWOO ~mit(} ~ff[REfft flOYD. SOMEldiNG &NSITIVE,YET lOOG~I AHAIRSWlf lHAT SAYS, 'SIIRE I'M (MtHIEPATED Wf I'M T~IHfiSlfD. TOOl'' ~trUING 
TRADITOOAl YET IDM 
I 
Garry Trudeau 



General Board 
Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief . .................. Joe Murphy Business Manager ......... Eric Scheuermann Managing Editor . ............... Kevin Becker Controller . ................. Alex VonderHaar 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
Viewpoint Editor ... ............. Scott Bearby Production Manager . ............ Chris Bowler 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Sports Editor . ............... Dennis Corrigan Photography Manager . ......... James Carroll sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Accent Editor . .................. Mary Jacoby Advertising Manager . ........ Anne M. Culligan policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accurately Saint Mary's Editor . ........... Margie Kersten Systems Manager ............. Shawn Sexton and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of News Editor ..................... Tripp Baltz Graphic Arts Manger .......... Mark Weimholt 
the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor . ................ Mark Pankowski 
OCN Manager . ............. Francis X. Malone their authors. Column space is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, is encouraged. 
Founded November3, 1966 
Accent 
Thursday, October 2, 1986-page 7 

Dumptruck's hummable 
Where I Belong" and it is prob­Been hurt badly, ably one of the most bitter songs but the pain is semi-self-inflicted
KEVIN D. WALSH 

ever recorded. The song opens It's 3 a.m. and I have
features writer up with a simple bass line and no ambition to sleep measure-by-measure the rest of So I sit here waiting,
Most of my albums tend to the band kicks in. It features one thinking ofthings to take up mygravitate toward a certain place of the grungiest guitar sounds timein the week or time of the year I've heard this far into thewhere theyjust seem to naturally eighties. The lyrics, like I said,
belong. R.E.M. is a Sunday after­are pretty resentful. It sounds like the end of a bad 
noon band. I only listen to the 
Where the hell were you SYR to me. 
Bongos in the fall and Prefab 
when I was all alone Songs like "Walk Into Mirrors" Sprout loses something ifplayed 
with a thousand people and "Secrets" point up the main in the middle of the summer. 
asking me my name? flaw in the record and in fact, the 1 would never listen to the In "Nine People," the chorus band. That is the lead singer's Ramones on a Wednesday. ltjust asks the listener "For a moment voice. Sure it's real cool now to wouldn't seem right. think of anyplace you've been or sing with very little voice at all -­
Positively Dumptruck, the Bos­want to belfor a moment think look at Lou Reed or Bob Dylan ton band's second album, is an­of anyplace but here..." and but those two guys have their other one of these albums. Right despite the fact that it is just a songs to lean on. Dumptruck 
now it seems to be pretty much lowly pop song. it forces you to does not. The spidery melodies of a winter album. Despite the think. It isn't a power that many of their songs do not lend them­heavy-duty name, Dumptruck bands choose to exercise. If for selves readily to a mediocre creates a pretty airy sound out no other reason than that, I singer. In all fairness, I will say of their three guitars and drums. would recommend this record. that his voice sounds great in They would probably list the The rest of the songs range harmony, but that is only done usual group of current hip in­from the hummable to the for­in about half the songs. fluences, like the Byrds and the gettable. None are really disap­Dumptruck's second album is Velvet Underground, but they pointing. Over a drifting guitar, a respectable second effort. also have something of a Celtic "Winter" marvels first at the Producer Don Dixon did change sound, inexplicably. Because of power of nature over man, then their sound a bit from the drone­this, they come out sounding like at the power that man has ac­like sound of their first album, a cross between R.E.M. and Big quired to destroy nature. In "Et­but I think it's positive and I hope Country. hics" they sing about a pathetic they work with him again on their 
TIM ADAMS tempts some humor at times ("I The first song is called "Back but not unfamiliar emotion: third album. features writer 
want to live and I want to lovell want to catch something that I rissey. Lyrics that come dan­
After listening to The Queen Is might be ashamed of"). His su­gerously close to being dumb Dead, the latest album from En­perior attitude which he uses to pop up in a few places. "Some gland's mega-popular band the skewer the Queen and plagiarize Girls Are Bigger Than Others" is Smiths, I have to admit that Keats and Yeats and various pointless through and through. these guys aren't as pathetic as others can become overbearing. And here's another snippet that I thought. See, I really liked this but his songs of self-doubt, fails as badly as Philip Michael band a while ago, but after too "Never Had No One Ever" and Thomas' solo album did. It's much Morrissey and too much "There Is a Light That Never Goes from "Bigmouth Strikes Again": vegetarianism and too much Out" seem to bring him into 
Now I know how Joan ofArc felt 
hype, I got really sick of these truer light. The latter takes his 
As the flames rose to her Roman 
guys. So it's been a good two· death fixation and exposes it in 
nose 

real-life detail:year rest and I can handle 
And her Walkman started to melt 
hearing them again. And if a I 0-ton truck Say what? 
The Smiths really aren't that So the Smiths have convinced
/\ills the both of us bad, despite lead singer and To die by your side me, at least temporarily, that main lyricist Morrissey's delicate they still deserve a chance to be
The pleasure and privilege is pretensions. Even though a few heard from even the most close­
mine of the songs here lull the listener minded of listeners. No, I'm not to sleep and some of the lyrics Though I doubt the "artistic" a rabid fan of theirs, but many are just plain ridiculous, The value of these lyrics, I believe this people are and I won't hold that Queen Is Dead comes across as sentiment is heartfelt. against them. If strumming a pretty enjoyable pop album, So what about the music? Well, guitars, well-constructed pop something perfect for today's if you've heard this band before, songs, and slightly melancholy radical change (and silly) lyrics appeal
Eurocentric college campuses. don't expect a -to you, In the interim since Hatful of just lots o' strumming guitars in get it. And you, listening to your 
Hollow, a 1984 British release by the fast numbers and pensive punk and heavy metal albums 
and feeling so smug. pry open
the band, Morrissey's outlook on playing elsewhere. life has become a bit less Now, on to my main beefabout 
that mind and at least hear this depressing. and he even at-the Smiths, or rather, about Mar-stuff before you ignore it. 

band possesses absolutely no For example, the cover of the al­talent and it becomes readily ap­bum looks like an advertisement parent after just one hearing of for a Rambo-esque robot doll. In this album, entitled Flaunt lt. addition, the band requested James, who picked its members members knew how to play any Their pop-star strategy fails be­that commercials for such prod­
Sigue's commercial 
TOM TIERNEY 

not on the basis of musical tal­instruments whatsoever. They cause they cannot mask this lack ucts as magazines and hair spray
features writer ent, but because of what they still do not know how to play of talent the way Frankie was able be placed between songs in or­looked like. In fact none of the those instruments. In short, this to do. der to keep the price of the al­
Sigue Sigue Sputnik is the bum down. It's being sold for Jist
The band's sound is generated price anyway. Finally, the bandname of a Moscow street gang. 
almost solely by the use of com­
It is also the name of Great Brit­formed a company called the
ain's latest pop music phenom­
puterized programming and Sputnik Corporation, probably to enon from the Frankie Goes to other studio production tech-protect them from suits fliedHollywood school of musician­niques masterminded by against them by people who wantship. producer Giorgio Moroder. 
their money back.
This school teaches as its main Moroder was one of the first to Their first single, "Love Missile tenet that ifa band has no talent, bring synthesizers into popular F I -I I," is actually a good sc.1g.
they must make brash state­music during his work with Its melody is catchy and it con­
ments (like "I hate all women, Donna Summer and some of the tains enough psuedo-anger in itsespecially fat ones."); create an other big disco stars of the '70's. 
beat to be a pretty good dance 
outrageous image (like using With Sputnik, his job was made ~ 
song. Flaunt It fails because
gelatin to get six inch spikes in easy. All he had to do was pro­-~ 
every other song tries to use vir­
their hair); and spend their time gram into a sequencer the same tually the same melody and beat •~ 
telling everyone how great they two-note synthesizer melody for ~ 
as "Love Missile," but they all fail 
are (including having their album virtually every song. This task is ~ 
miserably and the album ends begin with the words "I wanna something akin to plugging up sounding like a 
forty minute 

l
be a star!"). If a band is success­"Chopsticks" into a computer 
version of "Love Missile." ~ ful in all of these areas, they and having the computer churn Sigue Sigue Sputnik is the might fool people long enough the same melody out at twice the living embodiment of everything to sell a million albums, make a speed. that I despise in music today. 
l 
~ 
million dollars and become James, the Sputnik spokes­They are nothing but a hyped bonafide Pop Stars. Then, just as man and former partner of Billy product, with no talent what­l 
~ quickly as they emerged, they Idol in Gen X. admits to playing soever. Even though I do like ~ ~ 
can return to the hole from which music that sounds like the music "Love Missile," because its pro­they crawled and stay there, used in commercials. In fact, the gramming succeeds where the ~ ~ living off their royalties. This whole album is one big commer­other songs fail, I can only give ~ ~ strategy worked for Frankie, but cial for a product called Sigue this album a halfstar. Finally, do j it fails with the Sputnik boys. Sigue Sputnik. The band has put not buy this album and do not 1 Sigue Sigue Sputnik is a quin­itself on the same level as floor be fooled by those who say that tet put together by leader Tony wax or hemorrhoids ointment. it is good. 
The Observer Thursday, October 2, 1986-page 8 
Sports Briefs 
WVFI-AM 64 will provide live coverage of Saturday's Notre The SMC Varsity Basketball team will hold practice this Dame-Alabama football game. Frank Mastro and Kevin Her­Monday, Oct. 6, from 6 to 8 p.m. at Angela Athletic Facility. bert will handle the play-by-play from Legion Field in Bir­Interested players should bring proof of a recent physician's mingham. Studio host Rudy Brandl will update scores from clearance to the first practice. Call 284-5548 for more infor­around the country throughout the afternoon. It all starts 2 mation. -The Observer 
p.m. with the pre-game show featuring "College Football Today" with Brian Broderick and Sean Munster, "The Lou 
The SMC varsity swim team will hold practice today at the Holtz Show" and "Irish Review." -The Observer 
Rockne Memorial Pool on the Notre Dame campus from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m. Interested swimmers should bring proof of a recent physician's clearance to the first practice. Call 284­
Grace 'A' won the NVA men's cross-country meet yesterday 
5548 for more information. -The Observer with a score of 50. Howard finished second with 74, and 
Flanner took third with I 06. Jeff Millan finished first in the The ND Weight and Fitness Club.will hold instructinal semi­
individual standings with a time of 13:42 on the 2.5 mile nars in the third noor weight room of the Rockne Memorialcourse. · The Observer. 
on Sunday, Oct. 5, at 12:30 p.m. You must be a member to attend. Sign-ups for membership will be at noon before theThe ND-SMC Scuba Club will hold its first organizational 
seminars and will include a $1 0 dues fee for the year. For meeting tonight at 7:30 in Room 218 Rockne Memorial. All 
more information call Dave Crandall at 272-3493. -The Ob­interested divers or anyone interested in learning how to dive server 
should attend. For more information call Jeff Sayre at 272­
2216. · The Observer Two Hydrorobics classes are being sponsored by NVA this 

The ND Raquetball Club will sponsor a men's clinic on semester. Monday and Wednesday evenings, participants Monday, Oct. 7, from 8 to 9 p.m. at the ACC Court One. A meet at 6:45 for an hour of aerobics in the water. Tuesday ladies clinic will also be held Tuesday, Oct. 8, at the same and Thursday at 12:15 p.m. there's a half-hour class. Call time and place. All are welcome. For more information call NVA at 239-6100 or stop by one of the classes for more Dave Pyron at 1393. -The Observer details. -The Observer 
SMCsoccer drops pair 
By JANE SHEA 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's soccer team 
suffered two more losses at 
home last weekend, bringing its 
record to 2-7. 

On Saturday the Belles' show­
down with Purdue ended in a 4-I 
defeat. 

The sole Saint Mary's goal was 
scored in the first half by fresh­
man Molly Meehan. At the half, 
the score was 2-I Purdue, but 
the Belles were playing well. 
"We gave up two goals early," 
said coach John Akers, "but 
dominated 45 minutes of playing 
time." 

The Belles simply were unable to score the necessary goals. "We could not get the ball in the net." Akers said. On Sunday, Saint Mary's took on Siena Heights and lost, 3-0. 
"They (Siena Heights) put a lot of pressure on us early and were beating us to the ball," said Akers. 
The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. unt113 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either In person or by mall. The charge is 10 cents per five characters per day. 
Classifieds 
LOST: Light blue windbreaker with NEED 10 PITT TIXS OR SECURITY NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE & 2 PITTGA'S. WANTED: OUT! NO MANAGEMENT CLUB MEMBERS: WLU SKI TEAM written on the back. BOY, WILL MY BROTHER KILL ME MAURA 284-5108. TAKE: ME II you haven't gotten your newsletterNOTICES Please call Pat -1581 -or drop It off at IF YOU DON'T GIVE ME TIXS TO: MILWAUKEE, OCT. 3 yet, check the bulletin board In Hayes­
1111 Flenner Hall REWARD! CALL JOE 239-7471 OR NEED 6 PITT GA'S. CALL PATTY 284-FOR:$ Healy. TYPING AVAILABLE 283-1931. THANKS 5257. CALL: TRICIA 284-4040 287-4082 
LOST:FRIDAY NIGHT AT BRIT­NUDISTS!ATTENTION NUDISTS! (or GETS ... OLD BLUE JEAN JACKET NEEDED: 5 GA'S FOR THE AIR FORCE anyone) Have a great party! Great 
CONTAINING KEYS AND LICENSE. PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL GAME. 284-5320. $$$$ Going to. near, or thru Atlanta? music on a top professional sound Wordprocesslng resumes, etc. THIS JACKET HAS EXTREME SEN­3520 Desperately need a ride lor Fall Break! system. OJ with radlo,club and partyTypeset quality. 287·9024. TIMENTAL VALUE. PLEASE, IF HELP! NEED 2 PITT GA Call Rob at 1546. Will more than share experience!! The Commlsloner of Fun 
YOU'VE SEEN IT, CALL 2172 OR STOP NEED 2 GA'S TO NO-ALABAMA CALL 1599 expenses. ·237 0199!!BE A PARTY HERO TYPING BY SALLY BY 433 LEWIS. REWARD OFFERED. GAME. CAll 1-404-461-4514 AND CHEAPLY CALL 237.019911 272-7573 ASK FOR JOE. ANSWER MY PRAYERS and sell me Grace Hall SYR It's coming! Grace Hall I NEED MY BACKPACKIIIII II you lind 2 GA's to the AF game. Call me eter­SYR It's coming! ARE YOU A 
1987 SMCND summer programs over­

a red .KREEGER & SONS backpack PENN STATE TICKETS NEEDED CALL nally grateful. But please, call me, BUSIADV!MKTIARTAN.DES MAJOR program
seas(14th annual) london please call Faith Ellen at 232-5743. 3520 Mary (after 8 PM) 283-3090. LOOKING FOR SOME PRACTICAL EX­
May :ZO.June 19th. (Travel In 

Thanks. PERIENCE? The OVERSEAS DEVEL­
lre.,Scot.,France). Rome program HEP ME! HEP ME! I AM DESPERATE 
OPMENT NETWORK Is looking lor 
June 14th-July 13th.(travel In France, You can call me Rambo. FOR A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS THIS 
high achelvers to undertake our
NEED 6 GAsior AIR FORCE, OCT 18. You can call me Rocky. CAN ANY
Ger. Swiss. Italy) Courses In art, WEEKEND. LEAVE TIME publicity campaign. Meeting, tonight239-5873
bus.,educ.,eng.,hlst.,ltallan. Info meet­You can even call me Plasto. FRIDAY (OCT. 3) AND RETURN ANY at 7, CSC, or contact Rlchard,£3746
Ing Rm 232 Moreau(SMC) 7PM Oct But II you have 3 AIR FORCE GA 'a TIME ON SUNDAY (OCT. 5). PLEASE IN A PANIC!! Family coming In from or Sophla,£2814
14th. Faculty, last yrs. students, and you can call me at2274 because I want CALL MATT AT X2314 OR X2261.
WANTED Jersey and Ohio lor PITT GAME­
pizza. Questions call Prof. A.R. Black, them. THANKS! 
MNEED SIX TIX-GMTUDI Staph 272­284-4460 or 272-3726. 
5417 HAPPY 19TH BIRTHDAY,
My parents worry that I never have Willing to sell two G.A.s lor Air Force? 
Peg & Sheila

SAME-DAY TYPING SKI ALL WINTER! Crystal Mountain Is any fun here. Help me prove them Call Chris at 1788 lor a good deal.
NEED 2 GA'a lor SMU call Pam 283-WE LOVE YOU!
wrong by offering me your PIT­NO Pick-up now hiring children's ski Instructors 
Barb, Col, Glgl, Kef, SusanQuick-Type, Inc. lor the winter season. Salary plus 3503 
TSBURGH GAs ao I can take them to 277-8998 the game and prove them wrong! Ask
room & board. Contact Martha Mandel 
WANTED: 4 PITT TICKETS BADLY FALL FEST IS COMING. GET READY Oh to marry a camel tralner...Happy or Dave Hofacker at (616)378-2911. TO KICK OFF THE BEST FALL YET. 21st Joday from the Mooaeslor Janice at 284-4095. 
NEEDED. CALL DAVE AT 3810 THE FINALE IS THE GARDENS.
TYPINGWORDPROCESSING I have a 'Penn pal' In need of some
EARN UP TO S8 AN HOUR As a 
HELP! P.W. Partner(my boas) needs 4 TellmeTellmeTellme Its your b-day.
CALL DOLORES 277-8131. humiliation. Help me out with 1 PENN 
delivery drtver you must have your 
GA & 2 student tickets lor Pitt Oct. 11. WANTED: OUT! Happy 21st Jodie love the Mooaes
STATE GA or STUOENT ticket. Jlm­
own car. Hours are flexable. PIZZA 
I love my job & my life!! Call Joanne TAKE: ME
1729.

HUT DELIVERY Apply at 138 112 DIXIE 
(716)837 -9176 TO: MILWAUKEE Need ride to Pittsburgh, Columbus orBUFFALO BUS FOR OCTOBER WAY NORTH.In Roseland around the 
OCT. 3 Cleveland on October 10. Will pay SSS.
BREAK-COST:$60 ROUND TRIP; comer on Murray St. NEED 1 ARMY GAlli! JIM-1729 NEED 10 STUDENT Pm TIX! CALL FOR: $1 Call Mike 2786
SIGN-UPS:THURS OCT.2,7-9 PM,117 

284-5207. CALL: TRICIA 284·4040 
B.P. AND TUES OCT.7,7-9 PM,336 I NEED 2 AIR FORCE G.A.s. PLEASE
Need One-Way ride to Pittsburgh lor SENIORS: FOR 1987-89, CONSIDER
LEWIS; QUESTIONS-CA LL KIM £4329 CALL MELISSA 283-3848.
Fall Break. Will help with cost. Call 
WORK WITH HOLY CROSS AS­Amy, 1825, ASAP. Need to leave Fri., 
DESPERATELY NEED 2 AIR FORCE 
GA'S CALL TOM at 4307 after 8pm Hey Shalla Horox-Smlle-Wa love ya!­SOCIATES PROGRAM IN CHILE. AP­
NEEO 2 AIR FORCE GA'S-Iamlly'allrat
10-17. 

£305 PLICATION DEADLINE: NOV. 7. CALL
Professional word processing and vlall CALL 272-3463 after 9:30 MARY ANN ROEMER (7949) OR JANEMy big brother and little sister have
typing. Convanlantlocallon on N.lron­PART-TIME DESK CLERK. Bookkeep­Ride Needed NYCUWestchester Area PITZ (5521 ).
never seen Notre Dame win. Please
wood. Call NICS 277-4220. Help Mel Help Mel I need 2 Air Force
Ing experience helpful. Night! Evening shift. $4.01»1r. 233·1154. 
help grant them their God-given right GA'S (together) lor my... wife, yeah, For October Break -Can Leave Thur 
by selling me two Air Force GAs or that's lt... Morgan Fairchild...yeah, Will Share Expenses. Call 2853 or student tickets. Call Mark 3010.
and her friend ... ahh... Don Johnson God bless you. 
... yeah, that's It ... Plese call Tony SENIORS: IF YOU DON'T WANT IBM,
LOST/FOUND I 

Need ride to Dayton or Miami U. this at 1662 PROCTER & GAMBLE, THE BIG 8 • DESPERATELY NEED 'BAMA TICK­
weekend. Call Sue 284-4295. DESPERATELY SEEKING STUDENT INVEST IN AN ALTERNATIVE 
ETS -WILLING TO PAY BIG BUCKS
HELP! I LOST MY FAVORITE NO PLEASE SELL ME YOUR STUDENT TIX FOR ALL HOME FOOTI9ALL CAREER WHERE VALUES ARE OF CALL FOR TRIPP BALTZ AT 234-4842 
SWEATSHIRT IN NIEULAND SCIENCE TICKETS FOR AIR FORCE! I NEED GAMES!!! I gave them to a lrland and ESSENCE IN WHAT YOU DO. EX­HALL TUESDAY. IT'S GREY, SIZE 'EMili!!! £234-4842 OR 239-5303 ASK forgot to sign them. I'll never see my PLORE HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES
OR 239-5303. SMALL. AND HAS SMALL HOLES All FOR TB Ux again. Oh, I wish I was dead. Please PROGRAMS: USA & CHILE. OVER THE FRONT. PLEASE CALL call CHRIS BOWLER today x1774. Will CONTACT: MARY ANN ROEMER
FOR SALE 
My big brother and little sister have BARB AT 1349 IF FOUND. I CANT'T I Desperately Need 1 Or 2 Pitt. GA's pay BIG SSS!I! (CSC) OR JANE PITZ (HCA OFFICE). 
never seen Notre Dame win. Please 
grant them their God-given right by selling me TWO Air Force GAs or stu­
FACE THE PURDUE GAME WITHOUT TV RENTALS -LOW SEMESTER or Student's. Willing To Pay Big $$$. 
IT. REWAROII!II RATES. COLLEGIATE RENTALS, Call Jim AI 1061. 'thy, Go-Go, 'lean, and Jess-or Hungry? Call THE YELLOW SUB­FORMERLY COLOR CITY 272-5959. SCENES OF A BIRTHDAY CELEBRA· MARINE at 272-HIKE. Delivery hours:
dent tickets. Call Mark God bless you.
SSSREWARDSSS lost Pentax K1000 Selling 2 Alabama GA's. Best offer. TION Monday -Thursday 5pm-12am; Friday 
~ 
camera In Hurley, Tuesday, Sept. 23. EXCELLENT QUALITY & GREAT Colleen 284-5232. (not the wild kind did I say?) Spm-2am; Saturday 5pm-1am; Sunday 
~ 
I NEED PITT GAS & ALL HOME
Please call Jenny at 288-2773. DESIGN : "NOTRE OAME BEACH 4pm-10pm.
~ 
GAMES.272-8306
$$$REWARDS$$ CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW FOR ONLY $8.00. CALL GREG FOR Ok, so like It's only live days after my WASHINGTON D.C.BUS SIGN-UPS 
~ 
• lOST: One ADVERTISING STRATE­INFORMATION AT 277-3932. I NEED 2 OR 4 AIR FORCE GA'S birthday. 8:00 -Hacienda -be there. TUES., OCT. 7th from 6-7pm In the GIES text In Hurley. If found, please And were we there. RUT-ROHII Weal­lobby of LaFortune call 
' PLEASE CALL 2157 PERSONALS] ?'s Kevin
• 
return to Portia Amberg In 145 Lyons FOR THOSE BEACH CLUB T-SHIRTS, most stayed at the mortuary but we Vlrostek 1570
• 
~ ZIPPY and hla wile are coming lor
Hall or call 283-2999. YOU MIGHT ALSO TRY TO CALL OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER & LIQUOR, finally found Llncolnway West. Now, 
~ 
................................................................ GREG AT 272·3932 . Penn St. and need 2 GA's.Contact ZIP­CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE the hostess Is down the hall, turn the 
~ 
PY'S brother at £3549.
FOUND: One gold charm bracelet be­BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN . corner,jog a mile, up three flights, and 
• tween Alumni and Dillon. Call Mark at CAR FOR SALE '80 DODGE OMNI 024 she'll show you to another hostess. 
~ ~ 
1712 for positive I.D. 2 door,excellent condltlon,great In Mommy and Daddy will stop loving TOP QUALITY "NOTRE DAME BEACH Thank goodness the chips were on ATTENTION ALL CAPP MAJORS II 
snow and cold! 277-3682 me II they don't get sent 2 GA's lor CLUB" T-SHIRTS ARE ON SALE NOW. the table when we got there -we you plan to attend the meeting on FOUND: A 100% WOOL BASEBALL LSU. Please help.Brlan£3549 PLEASE CALL GREG OR KEN FOR needed the strength to open the Monday, Oct contact 
~ 
6 please Dan 
Bender 288-5599 the speaker will be
~­CAP AT LUNCH IN SOUTH DINING 1976 Toyata Corolla Sport Coupe. MORE INFORMATION AT 277·3932 OR menus. Only one 10 -we'll have to or­
NEED ONE OR TWO GA'S FOR PITT Steve Nagengast of Crowe Chizek and•• JOHN 283-1483. -CALL CURTIS AT 1421 Co. II will be held In the library lounge 
HALl ON FRIDAY SEPT. 26. CALL Runs great, good condition, only 272-3932. der non-alcoholic drinks. We'll lake a 
71000 mi., 2 dr.,4sp., asking $1095 . liter. What? What was that? Mugs are 
at 7 pm any questions call Dan
• 
................................................................ Call 287-9061. ATTENTION FORMER EDITORS-IN­on special? They're a bargain? Well, 

• 
LOST: ONE GOLD CHAIN WITH NEED TWO G.A.s FOR AIR FORCE CHIEF & OBSERVER STAFFERS: we'll have to go with mugs. You don't

• 
THREE CHARMS(A HALF-HEART,A MACINTOSH 128k with carrying case, Call Chris at 1788 II willing to sell. Write us and give us your address and feel like carding? We swear we're 21. "Recreation Is the shadow of produc­


' 
' 
' 
• CROSS, AND "PRECIOUS"). IT IS OF printer, loads of software asking let ua know what you're doing. In fact, II was my 21st birthday last GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE. I $1150 Call Tom at 4307 after 8pm week. Yeah, yeah, that's lt. And we'll tivity."' WOULD APPRECIATE ANY HELP-I NEED TWO G.A.s FOR PENN STATE OFF-CAMPUS SENIORSIIIII OFF­be nice and quiet while we drink them. Troy Wilson, HAVE TO FIND IT!!! PLEASE CON­1980 Honda Civic Wagon, Air, Call Chris at 1788 If willing to sell. CAMPUS SENIORS!!!!! Info. on all HAHAHAHAHA. 7,000,002 calories Lunchtime Philosopher TACT LISA AT 2662, 218 LYONS. AMf'M,5-speed, No Rust, Very Reli­Senior Class activities, Dogbooks, and 5 empty mugs later, the WW of W
• 
THANK YOU. able, 51,650, 233-9947. Senior Gold Cards, and all upcoming hunt lor a bathroom. Upon finding that 
NEED 3 PITT TIXS events can now be picked up at the -and Uncolnway Weal again (or was II LOST: Blue Patagonia pull-over 2GA1 STUD OR 3GA Senior Class Office, 2nd floor Lafor­East on the way home? I don't Bear, I'm In desperate need of a hug! jacket, Hurley Hall, Sunday !V21 Con­EVEN WILLING TO PAY$$$ tune, northeast wing know...let's Sample It and see If we 
tained Important keys In pouch DAVE 1739 like It?) they return to campus as very,
TICKETS
pocket. Please return keys at least Call SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS very happy puppies. Oh, no we forgot John at 1666 lor Information leading SENIORS Dogbooks will be sold to to say goodbye to the 4 nice OCN HALL REPS. Meeting tonight to the arrset of this jacket $S I NEED 1-8 AIR FORCE GA'S $$ TONY DORSETT, TRAVELING WITH 3 students who WERE OVERSEAS policeman and the man acrosa the 6:00 at The Observer 3rd Floor LaFor­
DAN 3273 COWGIRLS, IS COMING TO SEE HIS LAST YEAR at the Senior Class Office table from us as we left. We'll have to tune LOST: NO football tickets, this last OL' ALMA MATER TAKE ON THE on Wad. and Thurs., Oct. 1&2 from go back sometime ... Saturday, before Purdue game. Lost Needed: 2 GAs tor Air Force. Call IRISH. NEED 4 PITT GA'S. CALL MARK 6-8p.m. Senior Gold Cards and Windy Thanks lor making my birthday so near Sr. Bar area, on Green Field. If x2134. (1666) City Weekend booklets and Info. can much fun. And a million thank you's CLASS OF 19871111 Tippecanoe Place found, call Kate, £3701, 236 lewla. be picked up too. Come to the 2nd to MOM and DAD lor the Gold Card Twilight Dinner Special $8.95 4-course· ................................................................ HELP! I NEED 2 OR 4 GA'S FOR All HAVE 5 GAs lor SMU, NEED 5 GAs floor Lafortune, northeast wing. that made this all possible. meals with Senior Gold Card!!! Frldey, PHIL SHERIDAN, I FOUND YOUR HOME GAMES. WILL PAY CASH! lor PITT. Will TRADE or pay CASH. SENIORS SENIORS SENIORS 'sa Oct. 3 Don't miss out on thla onelll 
BOOKBAG. CALL £3549 TO CLAIM CALL TOM AT 1774. Cell Nellie at 3602. SENIORS CLASS OF 198711111 
~--------------------------------------~ 

The Observer 
Thursday, October 2, 1986 -page 9 
c 1986 M1ller Brewmg Co.. Milwaukee. WI  "DUH"* *TRANSLATION A SUPERBLY BREWED, FINE TASTING PILSNER BEER.  THERE'S ONLY ONE LITE BIER I  


THE COLOR PURPLE 
TheCblor 
Showing at Carroll Auditorium, St. Mary's 
Its about life.
Dates: Thurs,Fri,Sat: Oct 2,3,4 
Its about
Times: 7:30pm and lO:OOpm 
love. 
Its about
Cost $1.50 

us. 
~
Sponsored by SMC Student 
Government 
He did not see any action his junior year while he improved his academic standing. But he con­tinued to work out with the team, this time as a cornerback. 
Bobb saw action in the Purdue and Michigan State games on defense. He also is on the punt and punt-return teams. 
Not only is Bobb a favorite of the kids at Logan Center, but he also is a favorite at the pep rallies. 
"My name is Bobb," he says with a slight hint of a British ac­cent. "James Bobb. Agent double-0 19. Licensed to stick." 
Somehow it is comforting to know he is on Notre Dame's side. 
Toledo pummels SMC 
By MARISA KOSLA during the second set," ex­
Sports writer plained Laverie. 
Sophomore Sandy Hickey was 

The Saint Mary's tennis team nipped in the first set, 7-5, by fell to the University of Toledo Toledo's Ann Harrah, and on Tuesday, 9-0. dropped the second set, 6-3. 
Toledo, a heavily-favored "That was an exciting match," NCAA team, played strong tennis said Laverie. "Sandy played ex­according to Saint Mary's coach cellent tennis." Deb Laverie. The second-seeded doubles 
"Toledo played an aggressive team of Block and junior Kate 
match," stie said. "We could have McDevitt was defeated by Christi 
played better." Smith and Missy Buck, 6-2, 6-3. 
The Belles, 5-4 for the season, "Although they lost, Kate and still have their goals set for a Jennifer played tough," said nawless NAJA season. Despite Laverie. the loss to Toledo, several The Belles are preparing for players showed consistency. this weekend's Saint Mary's Col­
In her match against Lisa Don­lege Invitational, where they will nelly, Saint Mary's freshman Jen­play host to Butler, DePauw, St. nifer Block lost a tight first set, Francis, Valparaiso and the Uni­7-5, and fell in the second set, versity of Chicago. 6-0. "We are confident for the invi­
"Jennifer had a good first set tational," Laverie said. "We look 
but was not tenacious enough forward to playing hard tennis." 
Line drive injures Clemens 
Associated Press night against the Baltimore 
Orioles. 
Clemens, who has a 24-4 

BOSTON -Roger Clemens, record for the East Division making his last start for Boston champion Red Sox, was struck before the American League by a ball hit by Baltimore catcher playoffs, was hit by a line drive John Stefero with runners on first near the right elbow and was and third and two outs in the removed from the ~arne last second inning. 
Bobb 
continuedfrompage 12 
"Strong safety is just like an 
extra linebacker -he's closer to 
the line," says Bobb, comparing 
to the free-safety spot. "But I 
wasn't the physical type. I pos­
sessed finese. I always seemed 
to be able to make the play." 
Change was in the air when spring drills rolled around that year. Bobb was moved to the other side of the line of scrim­mage to the fullback position. 
'They were looking for a third fullback," he says. "I had alot of doubt. I weighed only 185 pounds, but they wanted to try me." 
The fullback position pre­sented two problems for Bobb. One problem was he had not played the position since high school. and was slightly rusty on technique. The other was the competition against Pernell Taylor, who was just coming off knee surgery. 
"We were friends," he says. "It 
seemed like we were battling each other for the third fullback spot. 
"I felt uncomfortable. It seemed like it was coming be­tween Pernell and I being friends. 
"I tried to keep his confidence up," he continued. "But then Per­nell really came out of his shell, and the coaches decided to move me back." 
Winfield 
looks for 
some peace 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -After five straight 100 RBI seasons, outfielder Dave Winfield of the New York Yankees isn't looking for accolades, only peace and quiet. 
"I really would like next year and any successive year to play the game without it," Winfield said of his constant verbal battle with Yankees' owner George Steinbrenner. "You don't have to praise me and pat me on the back, just leave me alone in a supportive atmosphere. 
"I don't know if I would con­sider this exten\:ling a palm leaf, but it would be interesting to be supportive and see what kind of productivity I could get." 
Winfield, who signed a $23.3 million, I 0-year contract with the Yankees before the 1981 season, is closing out another productive season and one of the stormiest years with Steinbrenner in the pair's often turbulent relation­ship. 
When Winfield knocked in two 
runs in Monday night's 8-I vic­
tory over Toronto, he became the 
first Yankees' player to drive in 
100 runs five consecutive 
seasons since Joe DiMaggio had 
a seven-year streak between 
1936-1942. 
His .263 average, 24 homers 
and 102 RBI going into Wednes­
day night's game have kept 
Steinbrenner quiet on Winfield 
lately. But when Winfield was the 
last Yankees' player to report to 
spring training this season, 
Steinbrenner was upset. 
"It tells me something about 
the man," he said. 
A .222 average at midseason had the right-handed hitting Win­field benched against right­handed pitchers, at Steinbren­ner's insistence, although the .34-year-old outfielder was named to the starting lineup for the American League in the All­Star Game. 
The All-Star selection gave Winfield a chance to fire back, wondering aloud how an all-star player could be sitting on the bench. 
"I still try to treat baseball as 
a game and try to have fun," he 
said. "But sometimes it becomes 
so much ofa business that it isn't 
fun. I don't want to have to deal -with defending myself. I think I do pretty well every day." 

GUN SHOW 
Modern &Antique 
Guns & Knives 



WE DO NOT CURl 
BALDNESSI 
Wehelpy-•rowthicker, healthier hair. -Tht IINtmtnt .tfer Mlnoxldii­
AIIer years of research, Hair Loss Center has an entirety new concept in the treatment of hair loss !hal produces visible resultS. Call for aFREE con­sultation to see ij your thinning hair problem can beSQived, before rt'stoo late. 

HAIR LOSS CENTER 
703 LWW, Mishawakl 
Ph. 255-8608 
M-W~3p.m.~pm.
Saturday Noon-4 p.m. 
.. 
~-Cotld«r.. Cenlllltant 


1/H... 7Hf3 l!IWY£/?S 

W(}(}t.P t.IK£ 70 /?!bC(JSS 71ft Cllf?r()JN YEtKI YOV SV8MITT&P 
fOK J{)'(f0f?KOW. 

\ G>
~. 
I. 
I 

Beernuts Mark Williams 

... 
"Just a word of warning, Myron -if you miss, I'm comin' after your big hazel." 
The Daily Crossword
Campus 
.,.,.....,.,.,..""T"',........__, 


~~~~~S~A~B~p~re~s~e~nt~s~~~~~sAB~~~~=------~ 
ll -~ EDDIEMURPHY IN
ll ­

~ Ll -LJ L l~l="fl--1~1 'f
l Ll I l '' ~'· ~ 
=~ : ~-1-111.1-S
Friday Oct. 3rd
Wed. Oct 1st & Thurs. Oct 2nd 
Saturday Oct 4 
7:00, 9:00, 11 :00 
7:00,9:00, 11:00
Engineering Auditorium $1.50 
Engineering Auditoriu 
No Food or Drink Permitted 
___________$1.50__..... 
I I :00 a.m.-4:00p.m. Grad Volunteer Day, Service Oriented Groups, Center for Social Concerns 
3:30-5:00 p.m.: Computer Minicourse Dis­playWrite 3, Part 2. I 08 Computing Center. limit I 0. To register, call Betty at 239-5604. Free and open to the public 
7:00 p.m.: Film: "Brother Sun, Sister Moon", Center for Social Concerns 
7:00  p.m.:  Thursday  Night  Film  Se­ 
ries:"Bonnie  and  Clyde," O'Sh aughn essy  
Hall Loft  

7:00p.m.: Overseas Development Network, meeting to discuss possible sponsorship 
Famous Last Words From Friends To Friends 
'Are you OK to drive? 'What's a few beers?' 
'Did you have too much to drink?' 'I'm perfectly fine.' 
'I never drink and drive ... ' 'I just cruise around in my yacht.' 
Kevin 'Captain Nemo' says: 'If you're gonna drink and boat, just park it at the bottom of Lake 


of Third World development projects, Cen­ter for Social Concerns'multipurpose room 
7:00 
p.m.: Presentatiorvreception for BBA seniors and MBA students interested in career opportunities with National City Cor­poration, Upper Lounge, University Club 

7:00 
p.m.: Meeting: Entrepreneur Society, 122 Hayes-Healy 


7:30 & 10:00 p.m.: Movie: "The Color Purple", Carroll Auditorium, $1.50 
8:00 p.m.: Program of Liberal Studies, Stu­dents.faculty Evening. "Inquiry and Prayer," by Notre Dame Professor David Shindlar; Library Lounge. Open to the public. 
Focus 
on 
America's Future 

ACROSS 1 Singer Johnny 5 Stop 
10 Hyde Park 
vehicle 14-boy! 15 Fortified 16 Jacob's son 17 Look to be 18 Domain 19 Soon 20 All 22 Assigning 24 Lascivious 
look 26 Irritated state 
27 Capital of British Columbia 
31 Grow canines 35 Mars: pref. 36 Young haddock 38 Bewitch 39-Fein 40 Ancient 
astronomer 41 "La Boheme" heroine 42 Superlative 
ending 43 Song 44 Nuncupative 45 Navigation 
system 47 Treat a 
different way 50 Okla. city 52 Boss: abbr. 53 Element in 
light bulbs 57 Mock 61 Siberian range 62 Bread spreads 64 Blue-pencil 65 Mountain lake 66 Board game 67-mater 68 Singer Paul 69 Nobel chemist 70 -we forget 
DOWN 1 Crate 2 Egyptian 
solar deity 3 Galley mark 
'1986 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
10/2/86
All Rights Reserved 

Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 4 Ont. port 5 Profession 6 Sooner than 7 Latin I word 8 Markets 9 Capital of 
Alberta 10 Missouri 
feeder 11 lt. painter 12 Stratford's 

river 13 Chin. dynasty 21 Vintage car 23 Bound 25 Stair part 27 Urns 28 Hibernian 29 Kind of poem 30 Thespian 41 Quebec port 54-Bator 32 Baseball's 43 Containers 55 Br. stool 
"hot corner" 46 Saskatchewan's pigeon 33 Of blood capital 56 Undiluted 34 Banishment 48 Canadian bay 58 Indolent 37 Functions 49 Gibbon 59 Fades 40 Winnipeg's 51 Expunges 60 Coup d'­
province 53 Good-bye 63 Yoko ­

"' • • • • • • • .. • • •• •• ~ •• • ........ "# -. •• .... • --• -­
--. . .... <... . . . . . .·-.. ,"' .... ,.. . • ~-.._ . <. • -. ·~ .... ..,._ . . ·, . .'. .' .. ·.: ~ :.:. :. ~ ~:: ~ :. :. ' : !~ 
~ ... 

--------~--~------------~~~--~­
Thursday, October 2, 1986-page 12 
S~orts 
CFA thriving on strong relations.hip with TV networks 
ND volleyball earns four-game win ; 
despite 'trash' from Lady Saints 
By RICK RIETBROCK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame head coach Art Lambert was angry about trash last night. But not the kind that gets hauled away in a truck. 
Instead, it was the St. Francis Lady Saints' hitting attack that was the source of his anguish. Behind a series of dinks, dumps and tips, the Lady Saints topped the Irish in the first game of a best-of-five match before Notre Dame came back to sweep the last three games. 
"It was trash, but if it works it's smart" he said, referring to the St. Francis attack. "They knew where we were vulnerable, but I think we adjusted to ti-Jat style fairly well the rest of the way." 
St. Francis came flying out of the gates in game one and scored the first five points of the match. The Irish were caught a bit flat-footed and found them­selves a half-step too late on 
Licensed to stick 

Bobb gaining fame in starting role 
By PETE GEGEN 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Though he only started in his 
ilrst game last week, the James 
Bobb Fan Club is already form­
ing. 
Bobb, a senior free safety for the Irish, got his first starting as­signment in the 41-9 Notre Dame victory over Purdue. He recorded three tackles and broke up a pass on a fourth-and-goal play against the Boilermakers. 
But the group that watches Bobb's every move on the field also knows him away from the football field. The group is made up of children Bobb works with at Logan Center. 
"I'd been hearing about Logan Center as a freshman, and I was curious," he said. "So my room­mate (Dan Coughlin) and I went over one day, and we really had a good time. I just got hooked." 
The kids got hooked on Bobb also. This season, they made a giant banner for the home games which reads, "James 
By PETE SKIKO Sports Writer 

(Editor's note -Today The Observer con­tinues its three-part series on the College Football Association and its impact on college football. Today's second part takes a look at the CFA and television.) 
The College Football Association has burst onto the scene in the last three years to provide not only more quality college football games each Saturday, but a vital forum of top college programs for dis­cussion of problems and changes in the National Collegiate Athletic Association. 
The CFA is thriving, and one ofthe main cogs spurring it on to increasing popularity has been and will continue to be its excellent relationship with the tele­vision networks. 
"The CFA today," said Notre Dame Ath­letic Director Gene Corrigan, "is known more than anything else as being a tele­vision entity. Itessentially negotiates tele­vision contracts for 63 schools." 
In 198 L several CFA schools tried to strike out on their own and organize a separate television package with NBC. 
most shots as they dropped a 15-13 decision_ 
The second game, a 15-5 Irish victory, featured the combina­tion of freshman setter Taryn Collins and sophomore Mary Kay Waller and a lot of sloppy play_ Waller finished with eight kills to go along with a bundle of blocks, but Lambert could not forget the sloppiness. 
"Different referees call differ­ent types of games, but that second game got really bad," he said. "I thought that one hit was a forward pass." 
In the third game, the Lady Saints started to self-destruct and Notre Dame continued to get stronger. An all-around better ef­fort featured some good block­ing from Zanette Bennett and Maureen Shea, and the solid passing of Collins paved the way to a 15-7 Notre Dame win. 
Game four had "rout" written all over it as the Irish jumped out to an 8-3 lead behind good work from Kathy Morin, Shea and Ben-
Bobb 19 Go Irish." And the en­tire group will be in attendance at the Penn State game to cheer on the Irish and Bobb. 
The children from Logan are 

JamesBobb 
not the only ones to recognize Bobb on the field. 
"Free safety is his natural po­sition," noted Irish secondary coach Terry Forbes. "It helps to have a man of the character like 
When the NCAA threatened these schools with sanctions such as probationary status in other major sports if the NBC deal went through, the CFA launched and won an anti-trust suit against the NCAA. From that time on, the CFA has held good standing with the networks. 
Up until this year, ABC and ESPN have covered CFA contests. However, the CFA is now in the process of wrapping up a four-year deal with CBS and ESPN. Bid-

The CFA 
ding was heavy for the contract another evidence of the CFA's improving status. 
"We are extremely satisfied with the new contract" said a spokesperson for Chuck Neinas, executive director of the CFA. "Although the deal hasn't been finalized yet, we're confident that the present terms will be settled upon without a hitch, and that both parties will benefit substantially." 
Jim Bobb has. He gives his best every time. He has good skills and good speed for a free safety, and has the ability to hit." 
After stints at the strong­safety, fullback, and cornerback positions, Bobb made the transi­tion to free safety last spring when Steve Lawrence was out with a knee injury. Now the two share the free-safety job. 
"I really don't mind," says Bobb on sharing the position. "You're going to have injuries. It's all a part of college football -you've got to have depth. 
"It's nice for the secondary to be two-deep, for the second team to play just as well as the first team." 
It took three years for Bobb to finally get settled in his natural position. 
In his sophomore year, Bobb was the backup strong safety to Joe Johnson. He saw action in eight games, recording six tackles. 
see 8088, page 9 

nett. But poor passes, missed serves and a final surge by St. Francis tied it at eight. 
Bennett then went on a binge with four kills and the Irish cruised to a 15-8 win. 
Lambert said this match showed the Irish what needs to be done to move up one more notch in its performance. 
"A good team has got to make adjustments to the style of the opponent and the referees," he said. "Once we learn to do that we're going to be a fine team." 
The Irish will put their I -0 North Star Conference record on the line against two tough con­ference opponents this weekend with Marquette visiting on Friday and DePaul coming Saturday. Both Kathy Cunningham and Whitney Shewman, who sat out last night's game because of ten­donitis in their knees, should be ready to play this weekend. 
Both matches are at the ACC 
Pit beginning at 7:30 p.m. 
Corrigan agrees and understands that a deal of this magnitude is a step in the right direction for the CFA and college football in general. 

The Observer /Mike Moran 
Zanette Bennett of the Notre Dame volleyball team follows through on a kill in action earlier this season. Rick Rietbrock has the details on last night's victory in his story at left. 
Bowling Green tops Irish in physical contest, 3-1 
Special to The Observer 

In a physical contest the Notre Dame soccer team lost to Bowling Green, 3-I, yester­day in Ohio. 
A total of 59 fouls and four yellow cards were called against both teams. 
After taking a 1-0 halftime lead, Bowling Green's Tom Kasten scored a goal at the 
67:27 mark after taking a punt 
pointed in the Pac I 0 and the Big I 0, but overall, I'm very pleased." 
Since the formation of the CFA, The Pac I 0 and Big I 0 conferences have refused tojoin the group, and next year ABC plans to televise games involving those confer­ences. This idea worries Corrigan, not be­cause of the competition, but because of the implications of the move within the sport itself. 
"The last thing we need," said Corrigan, "is their conferences against the CFA in a bidding war for network television con­tracts. If their try with a major network flops because there are fewer teams (20 against the CFA's 63) and no eastern teams involved, it's not good for the sport and so it's not good for the CFA." 
But with more cable-television possibil­ities yet to be explored and the signing ofa new four-year deal in the offing, there is plenty of promise in the CFA camp. This year's Notre Dame-Michigan game attracted the largest television audience for a regular-season college football game in three years. 
No wonder they're optimistic. "No," said Corrigan, "I don't foresee the CFA's downfall for quite a while." 
(tomorrow: The CFA and its impact on colleges, including Notre Dame) 

from his keeper, Mickey Loes­cher. 
Irish sweeper Pat Szanto cut the lead to 2-I with a goal at the 73:08 mark off a set play run by forward Bill Gross. 
Notre Dame, however, hurt itself when it deflected a punt from Loescher past keeper Hugh Breslin into its own net with only two minutes left to play. Loescher was credited with his second assist of the afternoon on that goal. 








