
-------------------~-~~-------~ 


Halley's Comet -page 6 
VOL XX, NO. 99 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY25, 1986 
an independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Aquino, Marcos both sworn as president of Philippines 
Assoclat~ Press Soldiers fired on a jeering crowd loactect With loyalist soldiers at mid­
earlier today near the palace of Fer­night last night. 

MANILA, Philippines -Cor­dinand Marcos, who struggled Marcos appealed to civilian azon Aquino took the oath of of­desperately to preserve a 20-year loyalists yesterday to bring their fice today as president of a provi­hold on power that the United guns to the capital and protect him. sional government declared by States said is no longer rightfully In a broadcast on private Channel 9 military rebels battling to end the his. television, owned by an associate, 20-year rule of Ferdinand Marcos, Eight people were wounded in he said, "we will defend the who himself was sworn in later in the shooting and five were injured republic to the last breath of our his guarded palace. while trying to flee the gunfire, life, the last drop of our blood." 
Marcos took the oath at noon hospital officials said. Aquino, who could hear the 
(Philippine time) from the Supreme Hundreds of thousands of fighting from the Quezon City Court's chief justice, Ramon civilians defied a dusk-to-dawn area, appealed to her supporters to Aquino, but his vice presidential curfew to form human shields stay close to the facilities they have running mate, Arturo Tolentino around the suburban camp of been protecting. 
was not present, according to a military rebels, who proclaimed "I would like to appeal to our 
report from the presidential palace. Corazon Aquino president, and countrymen... Just a little while Just before the ceremony, the around the rebel-held government ago I've been hearing all this firing small, private television station television station, Channel4. going on, so please cease and desist Marcos had been using to address Witnesses said masses of people from killing innocent people. the nation went black and an aide at the television station drove back said rebels had sabotaged it. seven armored personnel carriers see LEADERS, page 4 
Restructuring proposal's next step may be in form of student vote 
The Hall Presidents' Council According to the proposedBy CHRIS BEDNARSKI meets tonight and could propose amendment, candidates would be

Senior StqffReporter 
changes to the constitution and allowed to campaign at the The fate of the proposed student then submit it for approval to the meetings of student organizations 
The Oblerver /Mike May 

government constitution could be senate, "It will be brought up," at "provided that all candidates were 
Study silhouette 

decided by a student body vote on the meeting said Carroll Hall presi­invited in writing" to the meeting. 
March 4, according to Committee dent Steve Kern. Kern said he 
This silhouetted figure may be studying, but it seems as ifshe is 
Ingwersen said the amenment 

on Restructuring Chairman Brian suspects the HPC will make 
more intent on the winter landscape outside of Cushing Hall. The
will prevent hall presidents' from

Holst, at a meeting of the student changes in the proposed con­
window seats in the building serve as popular studying nooks. 
using the chair of their meeting to

senate last night. stitution and then send them back 
get an endorsment. "It's only pro­

"The committee on restructuring to the senate for approval. 
viding a fair organization ·for

and the people on the prevailing 
meetings," said Ingwersen. 

Apartheid awarenessside are going to send the proposed In other business, Judicial Coun­constitution to the students unless cil Coordinator Karen Ingwersen The amendment would also the HPC (Hall Presidents' Council) proposed an amendment to the stu­make it easier for Ombudsman to makes a new prposal," said Holst. dent government election rule that interpret the election rule according 


continues this week 


Two-thirds of the voting student  currently prohibits candidates from  to Ingwersen.  
body is needed to approve the con­ using the meetings of organizations  
stitution and put it into effect.  for campaigning purposes.  see SENATE, page 4  


WWII chaplain promotes pacifism 
By ROBERT HENN,IG Later stationed in Japan, he said "The follower of Christ, the true NewsStqff he believes it was in the medical lover of peace, cannot participate centers in Hiroshima and Nagasaki in war," he said. According to 
Father George Zabelka, former that he began his evolution to Zabelka, the Catholic Church was Catholic chaplain for the airmen 
pacifist for its first 300 years. "For who dropped atomic bombs on the early Church, martyrdom was a Hiroshima and Nagasaki in 1945, major social activity," he said. presented a lecture on pacifism last Zabelka noted that the"'recent night at the Center for Social Con­Bishop's Pastoral Letter of War cerns. and Peace supported this view, say­
Speaking before approximately ing, "Martyrdom must today 100 people, Zabelka asked the become the normal way of the crowd to work for peace. "I am Christian." asking you, my brothers and On the Just War theory, he said, sisters, to do one thing: To stop the "I think that it's time that we scrap business of making war respec­it." The Just War theory was table," he said. developed to absolve defensive 
A native of Lansing, Mich., warfare from moral blame. 
Father George Zabelka 

Zabelka was stationed at Tinian For the past 15 years, Zabelka Island during World War II. He He returned to parish work in has been actively promoting peace. served as Catholic chaplain for the Lansing, becoming involved in the He participated in a 6,500-mile 509th Group of the United States civil rights movement. A follower pilgrimage walk for peace to Air Force, the squadron responsi­of Martin Luther King Jr. and Bethlehem in 1982-83. In 1984, ble for the atomic bombings. Charles McCarthy, a former Zabelka returned to Japan to ask "l watched as the boxcar dropped teacher at Notre Dame, Zabelka forgiveness from its people saying 
the bomb. And afterwards, I said became convinced that the simply, "I am sorry." nothing," he said, referring to the teachings of Jesus included bomb dropped on Nagasaki. pacifism. see PACIFISM, page 4 ByHMMOHAN ded, "and not on the terms of 
Father Ted (Hesburgh, university 
president)." 
Anti-Apartheid Awareness Week A film of Reverend Allan begins this week as a premiere to Boesak's address to the Urban the upcoming March 4 campus­League will be shown tonight in wide referendum which will ask Morrissey Hall at 10. The film will Notre Dame students if the Univer­be repeated tomorrow night at sity should divest its holdings in Cavanaugh and Lyons, at 8:30 and corporations that support the 10, respectively, according to Rose. South African government. 
News Staff 
The film "Country Lovers" will 
Activities during the week in­be shown at the Center for Social clude seminars, forums and films Concerns on Thursday evening at aimed at increasing student 8. The film views apartheid awareness of the problems in South through the eyes of interracial Africa, according to Margarita lovers. Rose of the Notre Dame Anti­
On Friday, Rose said, the Anti­Apartheid Network. 
Apartheid Network will sponsor a"We hope to increase awareness rally on the steps of the Ad­of the issue of apartheid and divest­ministration Building at 4 p.m. The ment, and encourage 'people to see week will conclude Monday, thedivestment as the best option for us day before the referendum, with a at Notre Dame," explained Rose. 
forum that will feature both blackMembers of the Anti-Apartheid and white speakers from SouthNetwork said they hope their com­Africa, as well as the Americanplete schedule of events will enable director of a "Free South Africa"all students to consider themselves chapter. The forum is scheduled toinformed enough about divestment be held at 8 p.m. in the Engineering to make a personal decision on this Auditorium.
complex issue. 
John-Paul Checkett, also of the Rose added that Notre Dame network, said that he hopes Director of African Studies Peter students will realize that, "people Walshe and Management Professor have to fight oppression on the Father Oliver Williams will debate terms of the oppressed." Michelle the issue of divestment at an as yet Koch, another network member ad-unannounced time and place. 


The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 2 

Of Interest 
A large, black Great Dane bit a Saint Mary's stu­dent in front of Holy Cross Hall at approximately 12:10 a.m. yesterday morning, according to Richard Chlebek, director of Saint Mary's Security. The dog was being walked on a leash by an elderly gentleman, according to Chlebek. If the dog is not located, the student may have to receive rabies shots, said Chlebek. Anyone with information about such a dog is asked to call Saint Mary's Security at 284-5000 or contact the Saint Joseoh County SherifFs Police department. ·The Obseroer 
Outdoor ice-skating is postponed because of 
the absence of "freezing" temperatures. The event was part of the SAB's Winter Festival. -The Observer . ' 
Area apartment owners and homeowners will be available to answer questions about living off campus at Off­Campus housing Night in LaFortune from 5 to 8 tonight. Legal aid will be available. Refreshments will be served. -The Observer. 
Toastmasters International will open a new 
chapter at its first meeting tonight at 7:30 in room 223 of Hayes­Healy. All those interested are welcome. -The Observer 
Five hundred free streamers will be distributed by the SAB Special Events Committee at the Notre Dame-DePaul basketball game tonight. Throw the green, gold, blue and white streamers at the first home basket. -The Observer 
Saint Mary's student government will be available to answer questions about living off campus at Off-Campus Housing Night in LaFortune from 5 to 8 tonight. -The Observer 
The Notre Dame department of music announces James Welch in a guest organ recital. The concert will take place tonight at 8 in Sacred Heart Church. Welch's program will include Toccata and Fugue in E major, BWV 566 by Johann Sebastian Bach, Trois Pieces pour Orgue by Gabriet Pierne and Variations and Fugue on "God Save the Queen," by Max Reger. The concert is free and open to the public. -The Observer 
Mary Feeley, director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's, will discuss the work "Illuminations" of Hildegard of Bingen tomorrow from 12:15 to 1 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. -The Observer 
Career Day in Detroit will be Thursday, March 6. Applications for the event are available in Room 132 of Hayes­Healy and the Alumni office in the Administration Building. They are due Friday. -The Observer 

Weather 
No weather today to complain about as it will be partly sunny with highs in the low 30s. A 50 percent chance of snow late tonight with lows in the upper teens. A 60 percent chance of morning snow tomorrow with highs in the mid 30s. -AP 


Design Editor.....................-Jtaiftr!o.ool Viewpoint Layout................ Maria Groner Design AssistQnt ............ Mark McLaughlin FeaJUres Copy Editor............... Tim Adams Typesetters ...................................Tom Small Features Layout ................. Mary Reynolds Mark B. Johnson ND Day Editor ................................. ~ Sully Pat Clark SMC Day Editor.................... Priscilla Karle News Editor .................... Keith Harrison Jr. AdDesign ................................ Usa Michaux Copy Editor...............................Alex Peltzer Sharon Emmite Sports Copy Editor ......... Dc:nnls Corrigan Photographer........................... Todd Taylor Viewpoint Copy Editor....... Cindy Rauck­
horst 
The Observer (liSPS 599 z.,.()()()) is published Monda)' through frida)' exc·ept durin!( exam and vacation periods. lbe Observer is published by the students of the l 'niver~it) of Noue Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions rna)' be purc·hased for S:\0 per year (SlOper semester) b)' wriling The Observer, P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 
~M~6. 
The Observer is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rcSt"rvcd. 




More emphasis must be put on accurate communication 
communication, n. the act of imparting, conferring or delivering, from one to another; as, the communica­tion of knowledge, opinion or facts. 
Webster's Dictionary gives this definition for a word we may not use frequently but a word that is im­portant and crucial to our everyday relationships. Ef­fective communication skills work to enhance rela­tionships with other students, parents, professors, boyfriends, girlfriends, roommates and every aspect of our lives. 
If something is communicated clearly and ar­ticulately there would not be any gray area of disagreement and all parties involved will be sure of their responsibilities. If rules and regulations are com­municated effectively students will know their boun­daries. 
Listening and hearing may be the most important part of communication. But when the idea is transmitted by writing it is difficult to say whether or not the material will be interpreted as the sender had intended. 
Some students at Saint Mary's may have experienc­ed the effects of a lack of communication earlier this semester when Saint Mary's Security broke the locks of 39 bicycles and impounded them because they were being stored in the tunnels. Thirty nine seems to be a significant number of bicycles and it is evident these students were not properly warned about removing their bicycles. 
Or were they? 
The student handbook, which each Saint Mary's student receives, includes a paragraph on bicycles and outlines briefly the storage procedure. It states that there will be a "$10 fine for bicycles stored in student rooms, hallways, ironing board rooms and stairwells." Because the bicycles would be a fire hazard in these areas, they are not permitted. The specific reference, however, to tunnels is not related in this listing; but instead hallways in interpreted by Security to mean tunnels. This interpretation may not be as evident for some students. 
Apparently, some students stored their bicycles in the tunnels last year and this year the number of bicycles increased, thus becoming a hazard, according to Security Director Richard Chlebek. Because of the excessive amount of bicycles this year, Security felt it was necessary to notify students to remove their bikes. On Dec. 16, every Saint Mary's student received a let­ter from Security explaining the proper storage of bicycles. It did not, however, state the it was man­datory for students to remove their bicycles from the tunnels and it did not state what would happen if students failed to remove their bikes. It stated that the College had prov ided storage for bicvcles in the base-

Margie Kersten 

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 

ment of Regina South. Provisions for storage were 
stated and it .said, "please remove your bicycle from post, tree, etc." A misinterpretation could have occur­red because the word tunnels' was not directly stated. 
Because many students did not take action after the initial letter was sent in December, Security sent a follow-up letter to the hall director of each dorm. It was sent on Jan. 14 and requested the hall director to inform each R.A., which would then inform her sec­tion, to remove the bicycles by Jan. 23 from the tun­nels or they would be "impounded by Security and a $10 impoundment fee will have to be paid beofre the bicycle will be released." Unfortunately, at least for Saint Mary's Holy Cross Hall residents, this informa­tion barely got past the hall director. Because of a misinterpretation, the hall director thought every stu­dent received a letter and the information was not stressed to the R.A.s and in turn, many students were not informed. Now, 30 Holy Cross residents are ex­pected to pay the $10 fine to have their bikes returned from Security. 
Because of a lack of communication, either with a misinterpretation of the student handbook or the let­ters written by Security, there was a problem with let­ting students know what would happen with their bikes. Because of this misunderstanding, the students should be allowed to receive their bikes back without charge and everyone will have learned a great lesson: to listen, read and write accurately and learn to com­municate effectivelv. 


Help Prevent Birth Defects­The Nation's Number One Child Health Problem. 
Do you have a favorite band that you want to bring to Notre Dame? 
Would you like to be the person who decides what comedy acts, movies, and plays are shown on campus? 
SEIZE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ENLIVEN THE ENTIRE CAMPUS WHILE GAINING PRACTICAL BUSINESS EXPERIENCE. THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD IS INTERVIEWING FOR THE FOLLOWING POSITIONS FOR THE 1986-87 SCHOOL YEAR: 

The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1986 -page 3 




ENGI 
c fompan~ 

IS com1ng to 1ntennew on campus March 4, 1986 
We are the leader in the field of iniection molded plastic shipping containers and metal disc drive components. We oHer: 
Challenging engineering positions leading directly to plant management responsibilities 

The University Club will join the list ofcampus buildings under renovation within the month. Pictured above are beginning plans for what will be a series ofimprovementsfor the private club. 
Auoclated Press 
MIAMI -Racing strike deadlines from unions and default threats from creditors, Eastern Airlines an­nounced yesterday that it would be taken over by aggressive, cost­slashing entrepreneur Frank Loren­zo and his Houston-based Texas Air Corp. 
No details were disclosed im­mediately, but union officials said they understood that Lorenzo, whose company also operates Con­tinental Airlines and New York Air, would continue Eastern, the nation's third-largest carrier, as a separate airline. 
Charles Bryan, president of the International Association of Machinists local that represents 

7 locations nationwide 
University Club set for renovations 
By BUD LUEPKE 
StaffReporter 
The University Club will be the newest addition to campus con­struction projects as renovation will begin within the month, said Director of Physical Plant Donald Dedrick. 
Dedrick, who will attend a pre­construction meeting this week, said plans for the club include a walk-in refrigerator and kitchen remodeling. The refrigerator will be added on to the south end of the building, and it, plus the remodel­ing, carries a $190,000 price tag, he said. 
Dedrick said work would begin on an "on and orr• basis by Mrch 1, 

Texas Air lands troubled Eastern Airlines in takeover 
12,000 Eastern workers, sent Lorenzo a telegram offering cooperation. 
Bryan, who also sits on Eastern's board of directors, said Chairman Frank Borman told other board members he would resign from the company following the 2:45 a.m. EST vote on Lorenzo's offer. Bor­man, a former astronaut, has head-

Growth exceeding 20°/0 compounded annually for the last 15 years 
Read about us at your placement oHice and sign up for an interview. 
Casteel Construction Corporation, which built the original building in 1967, and Indiana Restuarant Equipment Corporation are the low bidders on the project. 
Construction on the University Club will not interfere with the pre­sent work on LaFortune, the Law School, the Veterans' Memorial, or the summer hall renovations of Howard and Carroll, Dedrick said. 
Manager of the University Club John Deguasra said planning for the project began five years ago when Notre Dame architecture students visited the building to evaluate possible renaovations. Deguare said the aim of the present plan is to improve the efficiency of the club's restaurant service. This 
ed the Miami-based carrier since 1975. 
Eastern spokesman Glenn Par­sons said Borman and other com­pany officials were unlikely to hold a news conference before today. Lorenzo did not return repeated telephone messages. 
Major creditors had given Eastern management a Feb. 28 deadline to present a long-term 
will be accomplished by moderniz­ing kitchen equipment and by con­solidating specifi areas of the kit­chen into particular functions such 
as  refrigeration,  cooking,  and  
storage, he said.  
Deguara  said  the  club  was  

originally built as a place in which faculty and other members could read, relax and have lunch, but in the last 10 . years, the club has undergone a series of renovations which have transformed it into a banqueting hall. "Because of mix­match renovations, the building lost its club atmosphere and that's what we're trying to get back." 
The work on the kitchen is ex­pected to be completed by August, according to Deguara. 
plan to turn around the airline, $2.5 billion in debt. Ken Mills, spokesman for Chase Manhattan, one of the largest creditors, said it had no comment on the takeover. 
Late Sunday, Eastern reached agreement with its 4,200 pilots to avert a strike threatened for tomor­row, but there was confusion over the status of a tentative verbal ac­
Wear your Irish painter's cap to the game On sale at the Dining Hall. 
Today $1 

~~~~ ~~" 

TheProoj 
Is In 
the Taste! 
Opea Moa-5at 11 •• S•a4p• 
Plua-&ndwlcha-Saladtf Beer& Wine 277-2020 
l..oarted fa Bo••u (Nul to •••cfall. 
i 
ANTI-VIOLENCE'~ 1 VOLUNTEERS 
~...---.~
-...----·
.~ ..........................,...____
........._... .......~.,.......... 
.................-. 
....-·~ 
,no;;.;;:::::.tlpend
' eo-..,_,_


--N.D.
-·U7,~1L
•• ··-~ 
cord with flight attendants, who could strike March 1. 
The Texas Air agreement must be approved by Eastern's creditors, shareholders and federal authorities. A union source and a New York-based airline analyst, both speaking on condition they not be identified, also pointed out that Lorenzo's effort to buy 51 per­cent of Eastern stock in an agree­ment reported to be for between $600 million and $700 million in cash and securities, could trigger a bidding war from other sources. 
Some union officials and Eastern employees were chagrined at the takeover, citing what one call Lorenzo's "anti-untion" reputation. Bryan, accused by Borman of being a major obstacle to resolve Eastern's crisis, said his union was studying "legal options" that could involve blocking the takeover. 
Hats Offto the Irish 

r 
The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 4 
r 
Saint Mary's board to sponsor St. Patrick's driving service 

By PEGGY PROSSER 
StaffReporter 
Saint Mary's students will be able to enjoy St. Patrick's Day festivities safely if the proposed "driver ser­vice" from area bars and parties to campus comes about, said Jeanne Heller, vice president of student af­fairs and newly elected student body president. 
The driver service will be spon­sored by the Saint Mary's Program­ming Board, instead of a tradi­tional St. Patrick's Day event. In past years, students have not been 

Leaders 
continuedfrom page 1 
We've gone through this with as lit­tle bloodshed as possible and I would like for us to continue in this peaceful struggle." 
The Reagan administration call­ed on Marcos to relinquish power peacefully. "Attempts to prolong the life of the present regime by violence are futile," it said in a statement yesterday. "A solution to this crisis can only be achieved through a peaceful transition to a new government." 
A Washington congressional source said the United States of­fered Marcos a U.S. aircraft to use in leaving the Phillipines. The State Department and Pentagon had no immediate comment. 
Marcos accused Juan Ponce Enrile and Fidel Ramos, directores of the rebellion, of being a "third force" who wanted power for themselves, and claimed Aquino was backed by communists. 
There was no evidence ot a com­munist role in events surrounding the effort to overthrow Marcos. 
Anti-Marco politicians went to Camp Crame on yesterday to discuss forming the provisional government, which Enrile had an­nounced. 

Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
Cabinet member Mike Jaeger said he favors the amendment. "This amendment itself seems like a really good amendment to the bylaws. It's really fair to everyone involved. I don't see anything in this amendment that would cause problems for anyone," he said. 
Any change in the bylaws must be proceeded by a two day notice to ensure that senate emebers have in­formation on it, said Holst. This was the first notice about the amendment and therefore no ac­tion could be taken. the senate will discuss the amendment at its next meeting. 

Pacifism 
continuedfrom paf(e 1 
Zabelka called for a world ecumenical council to clearly state war as a crime against God and humanity. 
Calling himself a reluctant pro­phet, he said, "We must all become prophets. We must do something for peace." Zabelka then challeng­ed the students in the audience, "I leave it up to you young students. How are you going to change this whole Rambo business?" 
The Zabelka lecture is the first part of the Lenten Focus, "A Call to Prayer and Action," sponsored jointly by the Office of University Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns. 
on campus for St. Patrick's Day, due to the time of sprin~~; break. 
The rewntten cnristian Life Commission Proposal was an­nounced to board members, calling for the replacement of the current ?Osition of CLC Commsisioner by a Campus Ministry Commissioner. 
The r~monale given t'or this change is, according to the pro­posal, "The present responsibilities of both leading the commission and maintaining a position within stu­dent government are too consum­ing for the CLC Commissioner. 
"In addition, the previous responsibility of the CLC Commis­sioner involved being a link between Campus Ministry and Stu­dent Government. This is a dif­ficult task for the leader of the CLC as CLC is not in direct link with Campus Ministry." 
This proposal will be submitted to Campus Minstry soon, said Stu­dent Body President Anne Marie Kollman. Julie Harmon, vice president for academic affairs, announced the Saint Mary's Speaker Series, begin­ning Sunday,March 9 with Jean Kilborne.. Other lectures will feature a debate between Phyllis Schlafly and Sarah Weddington, and S~ter Joan Chidester and Gloria Steinem. 

COMING! SPRING BREAK 
·· 


/J.~ ~~­
w DOITALLI ~ 
I J-f(Condition In Booth / \ 
iCTan In Beds iC Relax on Massage Bed 
Call277-7026 
J.M.S. PLAZA 
4609 Grape Road


TAN--HAWAL 
Mishawaka 
The SAB presents 
Fr~~~ 
Outdq.~~Skating.
~~~.i1e 
StfCJ~ ~O..tSketball Courts ~ 
Outd'Q<;j_ Skating is part ofWinter Festival '86 

The S t einem lecture, Harmon said, will be held in the Angela Atnletic Facility due to the large crowd anticipated. All lectures will be free and open to the public. 
Mary Ellen Smith, director of student activities, announced the possibility of the musical "Evita" coming to the campus in November. Student government has the opportunity to sponsor the show at considerable discount, ac­cording to Smith. 
"Ifyou haven't seen the show, it's very good," said Smith. 
Most students are in favor of the changes they have seen in the dorm masses, said Junior Class President Michelle Coleman. Recently, students have given homilies and opening prayers at the Sunday masses in each dorm. 
"I think it's interesting that we can change with the times, and it's 
(mass)  not  so  traditional." said  
Regina  Hall  President,  Mary  
Flynn.  

Heller encouraged those students who are planning to atten Lil' Sibs weekend to turn in their registra­tion at the Student Activities office. 
Applications for the weekend are due March 3, and the $20 fee in­cludes a movie, fashion show and luncheon. 
~ 
GOOD11ML.,i71A 

~Ln THE CToOt/tlmt!IJ RoLLr' W£ hove a.-ne~y flfE/1111 ~N/J Law P.RieEs j $eec-ia.l SaVJi.tG:S o/11 /<101Vi1uES MID Was) •J:L 11! ~.,~ 
NEW~ &P.M}fJ£TTI /JJN~,.,!Gw/ie~ 
tl~ Y0(1,1/ /"'WBALt SANIJ'IIICH, Loi-. lfetti.halls, siWce 
tu)ti t},~ oA oUii OWN SPtf!J4f.. /WII9T'IJ€£F WITHt!filAHt Ira..l{qfl $Aut.e.. ;:'/()liS q,J eheest •AlL&~ndwtdra SE/(VEIJ oN Btj Ifoli«A! 8uN8 oltll c.-wlflt O.ips.6 ~~ 
1318~ G-00tm!1£ CIILL I 
t2,3J.:1683l 

CAREER DAY '•DETROIT 
Thurs. March 6th 
WHO: Anyone interested in *accounting *Advertising*Finance *Law *Public Relations 
WHAT: Spend a day with 
an. Alum &find out what goes on in THE REAL WORLD 
COST: $15.00 (includes trans., hotel & dinner) Sponsored by the Alumni Association 
EN: Bus le(Jves Wed. 7:00pm return Thur. 11om 
···~·············
PLICATIONS: only 30 openings! (first come,.first serve) 
DUE: Friday, Feb. 28 Alumni O.fflce 2ndfloor Ad. bldg.
AVAILABLE IN 
also 132 Hayes-Healy 

--------------------~~--­

~i~~~_<>__i_ll__t___________________
T_ues-day-,F-eb-rua-ry-25,-19-86--p-age-5 
Black alumni found need for real changes at Notre Dame 

Racial tension currently does exist at Notre Dame 
One of the primary goals of Minority Awareness Week, along with both pro­moting campus unity and recognizing the talents of and problems faced by minority students here at Notre Dame, is to make the Notre Dame community more aware. As such, I thought it appropriate to highlight a historical event that for one reason or another was overlooked. 
Marin Rogers 
guest column 
In a searing report to the Board of Trustees on Oct. 25, 1985, Terrence Keating, chairman of the Alumni Association Board of Directors, stated that "racism still exists at Notre Dame." Keating came to this conclu­sion as a result of his involvement in the first ever Black Alumni Conference the week 
For those who are yet unaware, there is an impending and ongoing racial tension cur­rently existing at Notre Dame. Recently, black students have commanded the atten­tion of the University's administration in a noteworthy attempt to address some rather pressing concerns. Statistics have revealed that Notre Dame is without a doubt inade­qute in some areas of minority concern, black admittance, of course being the most yjsjble problem. 
Lester Flemons 
guest column 
What is often overlooked, however, is the dissatisfaction black students have expressed in other areas such as social life and academics. Certainly it is no secret that blacks generally are not happy at Notre .Dame. Rather than participating in an enjoy­ing the traditional grandeur of college life, black students at Notre Dame find themselves trapped in a world of perpetual adjustment and plagued by feelings of inade­quacy and frustration. After four years, some black seniors are still trying to figure out where they fit in as far as the Notre Dame social life is concerned. Others are wondering why Notre Dame never seems to make consistent progress in the area of black admittance, or why there are so few black students in Notre Dame's colleges of science and engineering. What was viewed as "accep­table" by black students in 1965 is today stubbornly opposed and justifiably pro­
tested. 
In actuality, the problems experienced by the black community at Notre Dame may basically be attributed to two factors, the 
Doonesbury 
MY 5PANI5H 15A FIR5T, A LITTlE H/5­
WEU:1Jir1E. I'M (PAOR& (TRAN51A­
l/TTlC /?IJ5TY, 50 77)lzy OF 7HI5 HO/JSI3.,
f?CVB?EJ/{) SI1J4N, 5/.MNWEJ..-TION 15
SENOR JE505GARZA IQfTH WH/01I HAV8
ANI? 7HI515 THE: (f)Mt5'f()IJ ({)(.}f(TE5Y 
before. 
From Oct. lO to 12, a representative group of approximately 20 black alumni (1955­1983) formed a mini-senate at the request of the Alumni Association to discuss the pro­blems facing minority students at Notre Dame, the role of black alumni in the Alum­ni Association and how to attract more black students and faculty to Notre Dame. Charg­ed by Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president, the mini-senate engaged in dialogue with members of the University community including Sister Jean Lenz of Student Affairs, Sister John Miriam Jones of the Provost's Office, Joseph Russo and Kevin Rooney from the offices of financial aid and admissions, respectively, Emil Hof­man from the Freshman Year of Studies Of­fice, Ed Blackwell, the director of minority affairs and several black leaders representing various organizations. Based on the infor­mation provided from the above, the black alumni developed a report given to both 
first of which is, quite simply, the homogeneousness of the student body. The University projects and overwhelming pro­Catholic, pro-upper class atmosphere which automatically adds up to a pro-caucasian en­vironment. Therefore, non-Catholics from middle class or lower middle class backgrounds are at an immediate disadvan­tage upon arrival to Notre Dame. Add the fact that the student is a minority and the question of racial discrimination ultimately comes into focus. Yes Virginia, discrimina­tion and prejudice do exist at Notre Dame. It is not the type of discrimination found in the Deep South during the late 19th century, but rather the type that is deviously hidden and secret, indeed the most dangerous kind. In short, the current situation for black students at Notre Dame is not a healthy one. In the past there has been very liitle effort on behalf of the administration to remedy the problem, which of course brings us to our se­cond factor. 
The apparent "blindness" of the Notre Dame administration has proven that if there is a problem in the black community at Notre Dame it is of little concern to them. It must be mentioned, however, that during the last two years certain departments and in­dividuals have taken some action to address the problem. For example, last semester the Alumni Assoication in conjunction with Ed Blackwell, director of Minority Student Af­fairs, organized and sponsored a "Black Alumni Visit" supposedly to address the black situation. As noteworthy as the project was, it ended amidst a noticeable cloud of confusion. Several black students complain­ed that the visit was not publicized properly and that they were not accurately informed as to its initial purpose. "It was a confusing event to say the least," stated Carlton West, 
Father Hesburgh and the Alumni Associa­tion entitled "Imperatives and Recommenda­tions," a report which was to be in turn wholeheartedly endorsed by the Alumni Association and presented by them to the Board of Trustees by Keating. In the report the black alumni found an extremely urgent need for the following: 
I. It is imperative that the trustees, of­ficers, faculty and administration of Notre Dame issue a formal written statement of commitment to increase black American stu­dent enrollment and develop a viable means of accomplishing this goal. 
2. 
In addition to the existing "need based" financial aid program, consideration should be given to the provision of merit scholar­ships to allow Notre Dame to compete for the most academically qualified black American students. 

3. 
The University should review and revise the existing academic counseling mechanism in the Freshman Year of Studies and the 


president of the Notre Dame NAACP col­
lege chapter. "Most of the students, in­
cluding myself, didn't really know what was 
going on." 
Blackwell, on the other hand, gave quite a 
different appraisal of the visit. "It was 
definitely a successful event," he stated. "It 
(the visit) will serve as a catalyst for other 
programs to benefit the black community at 
Notre Dame." 
Whether or not the "Black Alumni Visit" was a success is debatable. One thing the visit did accomplish however, was that it opened criticism of Blackwell and the Office of Minority Student Affairs. Some students are wondering exactly what Blackwell's job en­tails, and what has the office accomplished in the eight years that he has held the posi­tion as director of Minority Student Affairs. "I think we've made some progress," said Blackwell. "But I'm definitely not happy with the rate that we are making it." 
When asked what the specific purpose of the Office.of Minority Student Affairs was, Blackwell responded, "We are probably not as clearly defined as to the purpose of this office as we should be. It's clear in my mind that we should be an office that works to im­prove the quality of life for minority students." 
In another critical area of concern, Pro­vost Timothy O'Meara and Emil Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, are jointly working on a project to increase the number of minority students who intend to enter these majors. Currently, O'Meara and Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, are jointly working on a project to increase the number of minority students who intend to enter these majors. Currently, O'Meara and Hofman are studying various programs at different universities accross the 
Garry Trudeau 

P. 0. Box 0, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 
The Observer IS the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the adm1n1strat1on of e~ther 1nst1tullon. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos­Sible Uns1gned ed1tonals represent the opmion of a majonty of the Editonal Board. Commen­tanes. letters and the lns1de Column present the v1ews of their authors. Column space is ava1lable to aH members of the community and the free expreSSion of varying opinions on campus. through letters. IS encouraged. 
Editorial Board 
Editor-in-Chief ............................. Sarah E. Hamilton Managing Editor ................................. Amy Stephan News Editor ............................................. Frank Upo News Editor ................................... Dan McCullough Saint Mlll'f's Executive Editor ........ Theresa Guarino Sports Editor ...........................................Jeff Blumb Accent Editor .........................................Mary Healy Viewpoint Editor ....................................Joe Murphy Photography Editor ......................... Peter C. Laches Copy Chief .......................................... Philip H. Wolf 
(THE 006/NAL OWNER5USW 
University advisor programs as they relate to black American students. 
4. 
The University should implement a pre­orientation for black American students. 

5. 
It is imperative that the University review all publications portraying life at Notre Dame and modify them to reflect a friendly, integrated campus society. 

6. 
The University should establish pro­cedures for discerning the effectiveness of strategies for implementing the above. 

7. 
Subject to the implementation of the first stated imperative, the National Black Alumni Association should formalize a sub­committee of black alumni to assist the University in: increasing the black American student enrollment in both undergraduate and graduate programs, enhancing the ex­isting student support mechanism and Americans on the teaching/research faculty and administration. 


Martin Koger~> 1s u supnomore in the College ofBusiness Administration at Notre Dame. 
country to get input on further projects of 
this nature. "It's a national problem," stated 
O'Meara. "It has only to come to our atten­
tion in the last year or two." 
Although O'Meara and Hofman should be 
commended for their efforts to improve this 
particular situation, they must realize, 
however, that the lack of minority students 
in these colleges is not merely a "national 
problem." In order to truly address the pro­
blem, we need to travel no further than the 
Notre Dame campus. Minority students cur­
rently enrolled in the Notre Dame College of 
Science have registered complaints concern­
ing a noticeable lack of support from various 
administrators. In one way or another, they 
have been discouraged in their efforts to 
pursue a degree in science. The administra­
tion, of course pays little attention to trivial 
incidences, reducing the students' complaints 
to idol gossip. Since it is the job of the 
NAACP to investigate such complaints, they 
will no longer be unattended, no matter how 
"trivial" they may appear. 
There will always be problems to confront the minority student at Notre Dame. In the future, hopefully, the administration will in­crease its efforts to address the situation. Projects such as the "Black Alumni Visit," and the work done by Hofman and O'Meara are desperately needed and graciously ap­preciated by the black community at Notre Dame. If such efforts continue with the sincere welfare of the minority in mind, the entire Notre Dame community will ultimate­ly benefit. 
Lester Flemons is a senior English major at Notre Dame and is on the Notre Dame NAACP press and publicity committee. 
Quote of the day 
• "I never cUd anything worth doing by accident; nor cUd any of my inventions come by accident; they came by hard work." 
Operations Board 
Business Manager ...................... David Stephenitch Controller ............................. WINiam J. Highducheck Advertising Manager .............................. Jim Hagan Advertising Manager .................... Anne M. Culligan Systems Manager ......................... Mark B. Johnson Production Manager....................... John A. Mennen 
Founded November 3, 1966 


Accent 
Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 6 
ND pioneers a new view of Halley's Comet 
JOE MURPHY 
/~!!!_lures writer 
While the world waits tor a 
repeat performance, Notre Dame 
scientists Terry Rettig, Barry 
Baumbaugh and Randy Ruchti 
busily are preparing to again cap­
ture live images of Halley's Comet 
as it orbits the solar system coming 
within 39 million miles of the earth. 
What makes the group of Notre Dame scientists the center of "universal" attention are recent pic­tures the team developed using an intensified CCD (charge-coupling detector) camera. The pictures are faster than anything ever before recorded and show a detailed glimpse of the comet in all its glory. 
ABC World News Tonight, Cable News Network, the Associated Press, more than 300 local television stations and several newspapers used the live ilnages ob­tained in January and wanr the group to get more and better pic­tures of Halley's Comet. 
Last month, Rettig lead the team of Notre Dame and Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory scientists, including AI Baumbaugh and Kelly Knickerbocker, to the U.S. Naval Observatory in South Dade, Fla. In March, the group is planning to go to Hawaii on its way to Sidings Spr­ing, an Australian observatory. 
By going to Hawaii, Rettig hopes to avoid the cloudy conditions which plagued his team in Florida. The observatory in Hawaii is one of the premiere observatories in the world. From there, the team, using the most advanced equipment available, should have optimal con­ditions under which to catch Comet Halley in motion. 
The Australian National Observatory has offered the group the opportunity to use its facilities in March and April. 
In fact, the stystem the group in­tends to use is even faster than the one they used in January. 
The pictures from January gave startling evidence that changes oc­cur in the coma and interior sec­tions of the tail over extremely short periods of time. Why such changes happen remains a mystery. Additional high-speed photographs and a new CID (charge-injected detector) spectrometer will help confirm the changes seen in the January pictures. 
"No one has ever been able to look at the comet on this 
timescale," said Rettig. "We're 
looking at the comet 30 times a se­
cond. That's faster than anyone has 
attempted before. From that, we 
produce a digitized image which 
can detect minute changes such as 
those in the plasma tail that we 
detected," Rettig continued. 
"So we actually see the comet changing brightness in the order of seconds or less," Rettig said. 
The process of attaining these photographs can be understood even from the non-scientifically in­clined. The equipment can be view­ed as a glorified ll-inch telescope with an awfully quick camera and processing capability. The image­intensified light brightens the in­coming light by as much as 50,000 times. 
In Rettig's more exact words, "the people from Fermilab developed this system which can digitize images faster than anyone I know. We currently can digitize 100 frames of data per minute, and we expect to be able to digitize 30 frames every 12 seconds." 
Thirty image frames contain roughly 3.6 million bits of informa­tion. 
For those who know something about computers, Rettig said, "One can fill up a floppy di using just 

several frames of information. 
Since we cannot digitize all of the 
data, much of the information is 
recorded on videotape." 
Rettig recalled, "The project began when several physicists from Fermilab were working with the high-level energy physics group at Notre Dame developing a new technique for looking at charm and beauty events. 
''The equipment they developed involves using an image intensifier and a CCD. By putting those two things together, one is able to look at very low-light level events. Ifone has ever looked at a telescope, one knows any astronomical object has a low light level. And so it was sug­gested that we might work together and devdop this technique for astronomical uses. 
"The comet was an obvious choice because of public interest. We decided to get live images of this once in a lifetime event." 
The Notre Dame astronomers, including Rettig and Baumbaugh, actually went to a local golf course to get away from the city lights and took live images of the comet which WNDU-TV used on its news pro­gram. This video was only in black and white though. 
"The people at Fermilab sug­gested they might be able to do col­or enhancement," Rettig said. "While all of this was going on, Television Broadcast Magazine, out of Kansas City, called saying the project was a great idea for na­tional distribution and sent press releases to every news director in the country advertising free satellite-comet coverage five times each night. 
"The broadcast magazine con­tacted a satellite company out of Minneapolis which then donated free satellite-transponder time. Various news agencies picked up the information," Rettig said. 
From there the project grew in comet-like proportions. 
Rettig's team has brought tremendous attention to the group and to Notre Dame. On the day the group arrived in Florida, more than 300 phone calls were received ac­cording to Phil Kruz, associate editor of Television Broadcast trade magazine which arranged the project. 
The project has sparked interest from several astronomical organizations including The Inter­national Halley's Watch, National Geographic and the Planetary Society and may even receive sup­oort from the National Science 
Foundation. Carl Sagen has voiced interest and written a letter of sup­port for the project. 
"Notre Dame has received a tremendous amount of publicity," Rettig said. And at the bottom of all photographs is the Notre Dame name. 
"While in Florida, we were do­ing numerous telephone interviews per day and usually were on televi­sion live most evenings. National news coverage was provided by ABC World News Tonight, CNN and NBC," Rettig noted. 
Conventional videotaping pro­duces a very poor quality picture of the comet. In the past, stations have relied on still photographs of it. With the new method, Notre Dame is attracting the attention of the scientific community. 
The pictures obtained in Florida gave millions of Americans an op­portunity to see the comet for the first time. The pictures brought scientific excitement into the homes of people who ordinarily would not have had an opportunity to watch the comet. 
The team behind the pictures: research engineer Barry Baumbaugh ofNotre Dame, Professor Terry Rettig of Notre Dame, Kelly Knickerbocker ofFermilab, Professor Randy Ruchti ofNotre Dame and AIBaumbaugh ofFermilab Picture ofHalley's Comet taken from a normal telescope 
--~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 7 
• 
Sports Briefs 
The ND women's track team wm hold an organiza­tional meeting tonight at 11 in the South Lounge of Walsh Hall. The meeting is for any student who is currently not a member of the track team but who would like to run in the spring season. For more information call Susan Wanchow at 283-4089. -The Observer 
WVFI Sports AM-64, will broadcast the NO-DePaul men's basketball game tonight at 7:15 beginning with "Digger says .. " Pete Pranica and Mark Weingartner will handle the play-by-play. Immediately following the game broadcast will be "Speaking of Sports." Listeners may phone in their questions or comments by calling hosts Frank Mastro and Rudy Brandl at 239-6400. -The Observer 
The NO/Women's Golf Club will be videotaping tomorrow at the regularly-scheduled time. Viewing will take place Sunday at 5 p.m. in the Football Auditorium of the ACC. For more information call Laura Gleason at 283-3351. -The Observer 
The Off -Campus lacrosse team is looking for players. Anyone interested should contact Louis Conley at 234­
~253 no later than today.-The Observer 
An interhalllacrosse toomey is being sponsored by NVA. Interested teams must register by tomorrow at the NVA of­fice in the ACC. Rosters must include between 15-25 players and must be. submitted with a $25 team entry fee. For more informa­tion call NVA at 239-6100. -The Observer 
NVA captains meetine for uocoming floor hockey and water volleyball tournaments wiTI oe held Thursday. The water volleyball tournaments will be held Thursday. The water volleyball meeting will be at 4:30 p.m. while the floor hockey meeting will take place at 5 p.m. For more information call NVA. -The Observer 
FA!\10CS LAST WORDS 
FROM FRIENDS TO FRIENDS. 
"A tv' .'filii OK to drit'l'(" "Whnls rr /r'll' lwNs(" 
"/)id !fOil hw·e ttHIIIIIII'h to dri11k(" "/'111 JH'I.1i•cti!J.fi.lw." 
"A tv• .If!Ill i11 rtll!f slmJW to rlrit•t•(" "/'t¥' 1/l'IV'I'/(o/f hf'ffe1:" 
"/think !fOil'!'(' had a.f(•ll' ftHI/1/IUI!f." "Yr)ll kirldi11, I cnn rlt'it'e with 111 !f t'!fl'·~ l'itmerl." 
"Yr)ll't•e ltnd fm 11111('/i to dri11k, 
let uw ch-ive." 
DRINKING AND DRIVING 
CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIR 

Th<' Ohsar·a ~otr<· Dame otfin·. lo<atnl on IlK rhir<J fluor of l.al·orlurw "lll<krll < t·nt.-r. atn·pt' tla"ifinl alln·rri'lll!t lronr <) .1111 until 1 p 111 \londa1 thwu!th I rtda1 7h<' I !hsl!rr·t'r "aifll .\I an·, uffi< ,. lot alnl on riK thml floor ut Ha!t!tar <olle)(<· <•·nt.-r an t·pt' tla'"linh from 12 ~o p nr ttrllol ~ p 111 \I on da1 IIHHI!th l·nlla1 lkadlone lor n<':-.1 da1 <la"ttinh " ~ p 111 \II ..ta"tlicd' nru'' ht· prepau.l. either 111 pt·r,on or In rnaol ( har!te" I 0 n·m, pt·r li1 t' <harac-
Classifieds 
1<'" l'r <lav 
NOTICES 
.,.ypong Aveilltble 287-4082 
TYPING 
CAU.CHM 
2:14-1117. 
ATTN: ITUDBIU 
IJoloree Fntnde typing .-vice phone numbw change 277-8131 
Prol.-on.l word ptOOIMingend typing. Convlt'llentloc:ation on N. Ironwood. c.tl 277-4220. 
LOST/FOUND I 
LOST: GOlD CLIP ON EARRING ON SOUTH QUAD. SENTIMENTAL VALUE FROM PALESTINE. REWARD! CALL 
233-3e611. 
LOIT WOIIIN'I GOLD IMCILIT IT HAS 3 GOlD HEARTS ON A BRAIDED GOLD CHAIN. OREAl SENITMENTAL VALUEIII PLEASE CALL38811. THANKS 
LOSTI LOSTI LOSTII loet my IItle t.:i<· piiCI< on !he booi<riiCk In Sou1h Dining H.tl on TuMdloy, Feb. 18. I you found II, I would """edllte h being returned. II con­181,. abrol<en s.tlyo redlo, a!IC*f, .., old pM ol glov•. and _.,.. biology per1odlc ,.,.,,.. PIMM all me In lhe .......,.ngealx1778. Thanke a lot. 
LOST: A OREY CHECKED OVERCOAT WITH A "U2" BUTTON, PAIR Of OREY OLOVE8, AND A OREY BUFfALO PLAID SCARF. AT 801 ST.LOUIS ST. FRIDAY, FEB.14. IF FOUND PlEASE CALL 2208 OR LEAVE AT LOST AND FOUND. 
WILL THE PERSON WHO BORROWED SUPER CHIEF PLEASE RE1URN IT TO 108 KEENAN ORCALL3:217. 
Lost a brown hal presumably on the dining hall If found please contact Mike at (X2516) 
-HEY YOU-Stealing tapes from a party Is major uncool. Someone lent us those tapes and would like lhem back. II you have a guilty conscience during Ihis lenten season · just drop lhe tapes In our mall-box ... you know where we live. 
FOUND: SILVER CROSS AT THE ROCK FEB. 10TH CALL X1591 TO CLAIM. 
FOUND: A pair of sun-glasses at 88 days 'Ill graduallon party. Call Tim at 
2530. 
FOUND, ZIPPO UGHTEA AT ST. MARY'S ON SIDEWALK NEXT TO MAD· LEVA PARKING LOT. CALL284-<4656. 
LOST AT SENIOR BAR THURSDAY THE 20TH A TAN LONDON FOG WINTER COAT SIZE 42 LONO. CALL TEARY AT 1650 IF FOUND 
FOR RENT 
2-I:Om.IIPI. c.t1272-41113. 
FURNISHED HOMES CLOSE TO NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR. 267-6389. 
FOR SALE 
YAMAHA 650 EXCELLENT COND.$1200.CALL JAY 232-<>554 
S,.. blad< & while TV with radio. c.H 1265. 
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps lor $44 through the U.S. Government? Get the facts todayl Call 1·312·742·1142 Ext. 7316. 
AMIGA COMPUTER SYSTEM 
512 KB Expandable lo 6.5 MB. Superb 
color graphics with over 4,000 colors. 
Special 25 percent discount lor NO 
sludenls and faculty. 
BUAKA T COMPUTER CENTER 
267·3344 
Airline ticket to Miami leaving South Bend 7 a.m. March 12, return March 16. Caii611H372. 
TICKETS 
NEED 4 DAYTON OA'S. CALL BILL AT 1775 
NEED A DAYTON 0ATICKET WILL PAY WELL CALL X2035 
NEED ONE DAYTON nx 
TIMY2t13 
I need 2 Dayton OA'I, Marly 1050 
DAYTON DAYTON DAYTON! I NEED DAYTON TIXI GA'S OR STUDENT! I NEED A LOTI JOHN x1502 
TICKETS needed lor DAYTON game­GA or student· call1539 
I NEED 2 DAYTON GAs $$$$1 ALLEN 4245 
Need 3 or 4 GAs for Dayton . March 8. Blll3467 
I need DAYTON llx. Call Brian at 2937. 
SAN DIEGO, CA. FOR EASTER BREAKII ROUND TRIP TICKET 
CALL 1041 
WANTED TICKETS FOR THE DAYTON GAMEl WILL PAY BIG BUCKS, NO WHAMMIE. CALL RICK AT 1828. MY ONLY lWO VISITORS ALL YEAR! HELP ME OUT BY SELLING lWO TIX FOR DAYTONII WILL PAY ANYTHING II TOM 3810 
FOUR DEPAUL GA'S FOR SALE CALL 277·2839 BEFORE 6 
Need 4 Dayton tix (etudent a' OA). PI-cd Milly Ellen at 3855 a' 239­5303. Big$! 
I need 1,2,3a'4 DAYTON tix Oan3475 
WANTED 
RIDE for 2, or AlDERS NEEDED to Colubus, OH·OSU lor Feb 28 · March 
1. Call Mike at 286·5355. 
AIDE NEEDED TO N.E. OHIO ON 28 FEBOR1 MAACALLCHUCKAT1968 
PERSONALS 
OAII HOUII: COLD aEEII & UOUOII. CAMY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.l. 31 N., 1 IILOCK SOUTH OF HOUDAY INN. 
YOUNG TliAVELLEIII NEWILETTERI lndudee:BOO no.; !ravel pt111ner l8fllice;laaturea on exotic OVEIIIEAII budge! travel, Wa'k, eludy! Send check ($12/yr.) to: Y.T.N., P.O. Box 3887, New Haven, CT. 06525 
Hungry? (;all YELLOW SUBMARINE at 272·HIKE Delivery hours: 5pm-12am Monday· Thuradlly; 5pm-2am Fridey; 3pm·1am Salurdly; 4pm-10pm Sunday. 
To lhe gorgeoue guy who neYer anorea: Wll you go to my formal on Mar. 1? Love Krik 
YENTL,GEEK(YES YOU JOHN WALLACE), & WHITNEY, PLEASE DON'T DRINK ALL THE BOOZE IN SOUTH BEND BEFORE I'M LEGAL. HAPPY 21ST TO ALL Of YOUI LOVE, WILMA 
DILLON VS DILLON Final Score We Score Between Periodl 5, Hot Packages on Ice 4 lnlrahalt Hockey's No.1 ream thanks our lana. he game of gaa hubeen decided!! I 
HEY M.A.P.S.-Hope you have a super Birthday! Sony aboullhe ears, I )ull hed to do it. Thinking of you, especially on your 2111. Love,M.R. 
Hoop Hysteria ehlrta etlllavallablel!! All alz88. Stop by Room 221 Stanfa'd ... call 2078/2089 
NO etudenta ·due to your auppoft of Hoop Hysteria $1550 hubeendonlled10 Logan Center and lhe wheels, lllhla very moment, ere turning lo buy a young lady a badly· 
needed 
new wheelcheir. Thanke. 
CONGRATULATIONS Dillon Hal's No. WUM hocl<ey ream We core Between eriodl ood Job: DE, Coach, tto ln­aurance, 0 Grinch, Swaykua, Nolan, Bobby Orr Boler, Smoron, oug Wllaon Bums, and Yea, You loo WILD BILL. The 
glrla 
Thank you, St. Jude Sludenll In need of gynecological aervicee can be seen by the Univerwlty physicians ... by a gynecological epecialial. Gynecologlll by appoinlmenl only 239-7497, Wed. ma'nlnge ($20 mini· mum lee). No lee lo see Univerwlty physicians. 
NO Club of Mllwaukeelnvltea you lo NO VI IIAIIQUETTE IIAIIKIET1tALL PAIITY Saturday, March 1 al Turners Hall, 1034 
N. 41h, acr011 from Mllwaukea Arena. 
Game on Big Screen TV. If you have game tix, join ua alterwardll fa' huge buf­fet with the team. Student ticke18 $10; in­dudee beverag88. Doora open 11 noon. 
THIIOPHOIIOIIECOnLUON A FORMAL EVENING Of DININO & DANCING 
FillDAY IIAIICH 7TH 
IOPHOIIOIIE 
COT/WON 
COTILLION 
conwON 
STOP UIING lEX AI A WEAPON 
Need rooma fa' graduation? Enjoy Bed 'N Braaldut In lovely hom88. 219-291·7153. 
WHY IS A MAN HATED FOR LOVING A MAN AND YET PRAISED FOR KILLING AMAN? 
Doctor Death laya:Richerd Bach Ia A Ninny 
aut llltch Ia happy 
HAPPY BIRHTDAY PAT MCMANUS LOVE, A SMC SWIMMER 
Wanled: A "patient" person to give guitar 18110111. 1 hr. a week. WIN payl c.H 272· 1859 
2 MILE RELAY (the best In the U.S.A.) Congratulatlonslll2 MILE RELAY (gOo lng to win the N.C.A.A.'s) Yeah, that's rlghtll! 2 MILE RELAY: John "albino" McNelis, Rob "Mr. Eugene" Nobles, Jeff "dropped from an airplane" Wle Wle, and the ever famous Jim "I got a new hair dew every other day" Tyler. Again, congratulations from the car· toonlst TEX. 
Bunny In the trees I missed you yesterday ...could lin· teres! you In some strawberry cheesecake? 
Can't find the bunny 
PREGNANT? 
NEED HELP& Call 234-0363, 24·hr. hotllne, counseling & free pregnancy tests. 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER 
CHIMES '86 Is still accepting your POETRY, SHOAT STORIES & ART WORK for publication. All submls· slons to Max Westler, 310 MAD., by Marchi 
Sophomores Sophomores Skating Party Thursday Feb 27 8:30·10:00 p.m. 
Ferdinand, I'm ready to greet the "brave new world." Miranda 
I have to get to 
NYC this weekend. I need a ride on Thurs. 27 or Fri. 28. I will pay $$$$11 Please helpmeoull Call SCOT-4186 
HAPPY 19th BIRTHDAY PATTY I Older women drive me WILD! Friday's going to be neat and crazy I LIKE YOU A LOTI TEO 
JOHN, JEFF, JIM & ROB 
Congratulations lo the fastest (and cutest) two mile relay learn In the country! Ill Way to go! 
COAST GUARD CLUB Organizational meeting this Thurs For more Info call Brian 2513 
ST. PArs PARTY AT TIVOLI'S for the UNITED WAY! $1.50 GREEN DRAFT BEER $1.25 ALL MIXED DRINKS $1.00 SHOTS OF SCHNAPPS FREE IRISH BUFFET! $5.00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
SPELLAKWHY: SQUEEZE YOU? DON'T EVEN KNOW YOU! O'L 
Shakespeare once wrote a play aboul Christian mercy .. you know, one of those fantasy pieces no one takes seriously. 
TO ALL THOSE INVOLVED IN THE McCANLESS BEACH PARTY INCI· DENT (YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE): I'm wllh them, I always get hiccups In this wealher, I'm uh, Chris, uh, Please hit me, Where's the·-? Well al least I got a date out of It, Who needs an escort? I wonder If they kicked us out?, Can I take this out Into the hall?, and we danced ..., Thankx lor a memorable weekend. 2 ALCOHOLICS,AN IMPERSONATOR, AND SOMEONE WHO SUFFERED THROUGH LENT. 
They say that on Feb. 24 If Its clear, you can see two "lovers" strolling on campus .. II walls could speak what tales the walls of Pangborn could tell 
us' .. 
And you thought lhe abuse would end alter 2 yrs. -you were wrong!! Remember -new dirt gels rid of old dirt, TC, go lor IT II happy 2nd annlver· saryll 
IT IS JUST ONE OF MY MANY SEA· VICES-ARE THEY FREE?? 
Happy Birthday Champ! You're the greatesll Save some of the prime rib lor me. See you on the 21sll 
I DON'T BELIEVE IN SYMBOLISM 
A. Smtih Chicago, 1986 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE KML 
Patty & Linda: You've got to meet these twins . hazel eyes (actually they're kind of brown), balding a bit, but hey, your kids will be just line (your grandklds might be In trouble· II skips a genera­tion, right?) 
Hey you crazy DANCER I Don't worry, you'll make It through this weak. IT'S A GIVEN I Just remember: Mony, Mony, long, long cold walks & 'the' shoes Love Me 
A DOWNHIL THANKS TO THE L', THE O'C, AND THE O'M OF LOCOM 861 K&K 
Need riders to Green Bay (a.k.a. Mar· quette). Between riders also. Leaving Thurs. and returning Sunday. If In· lerested, call Liz al 4161. 
Speaking of 'hays', St. Thomas Aquinas concluded that what he had written In the Summa Theological was jusl so much straw. So much for turpitude. 
AMY· I LOVE YOU JAIMIE 
Thanks for coming Mom & Dad. I had a great time. Love, Mark 
Chuck, I love yal MK 
HAPPY 21ST birthday theresa smlttllll DON'T LET ONE CONTACT SPOIL YOUR DAY AFTER A FEW DRINKS YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE ANYWAY!! I LOVE' DEBBIE, LISA, MARY, GAIL, JAYNE 
SEAN FROM HOLY CROSS I didn't get the chance to say good· bye Saturday night .... Where are you? Who are you? Give me a call. Stacie from Eddy Street 5275. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY CAROLINE DILLON & SARAH BRANSFIELD ROSES ARE RED, VIOLETS ARE BLUE, YOU CAN DRINK BEERS, CAUSE YOU'RE 221 
ROTC LEADS THE WAY ANNII had a great time. How about next weekend sometime? PJF 
82 DAYS UNTIL GRADUATION, 65 DAYS UNTIL THE DERBY, 62 DAYS UNTIL OUZIS21, 25 DAYS UNTIL SPRING BREAK, 
AND 3 OA YS UNTIL THE WEEKEND. 
P.S. HELLO MR. CAVffil 

. ..... ,._·
'­
Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 8 
The Observer 




Tbe Observer/Hanna Hacker 
Senior John Krug is shown here trying to gain the upper hand in wrestling action at the ACC. The Irish dropped tough matches to Nebraska and Brigham Young over the weekend and saw their record drop to 7-8. Greg Stohr has details at left. 
"Yau've had too much to drink, let me drive." DRINKI'JG AND DltJVIIG "Nobody drives my car but me." CAN KU. A FRIENDSHII 
f*** * * * * * * * * * * * 
f DISTINGUISHED STUDENT 
: AWARD
• i
: Th• Nofr• Da•• Alu•nl A.uoelatlon will ••aeeeptlne no•lnatlens i 
~ 
fro• F••ruaJ7 •4·38 for th• 5th annual Dlstlnplsh..5tu••nt : A war•. Th• l)lstlnplsh•• Stu••nt Awar• was er•te• to honor •• • outstan•lnls.,.lorst•••nt at th• Unl.,.,.slt~ •a••• on til• followl•l 
!~~~ 
-tc 1) Service to Notre Dame, ~ 2) Service to the Community, and,
~. 
.,. 3) Good Academic Standing. 
i Applications can be obtained at the Alumni Association Office on f the second floor of the Administration Building, The Center for ~ Social Concerns • and at Campus Ministry Office in the : Memorial Library 
: Nominations must be submitted to the Association by Fell• .a8, !986. 
******************************************~··********~ 
BANKING... ONCAMPUSATSMNTMARVS 
1st Source Bank's office, located at Saint Mary's College in Haggar College Center, offers free checking to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students and faculty. 
In addition, this office brings you the convenience of 24 hr. banking locations to serve you! 
Banking Hours· Monday through Friday 
Mon. thru Thurs. -11:30 a.m.-3:30p.m. 
Friday-11:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.  ~  source  
Join Michiana's 1st Team  .-.:aank  
for unsurpa~sed banking service!  Member ~.D.I.C.  

Wrestling team loses two matches over weekend, record drops to 7-8 
By GREG STOHR 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in five years, the Notre Dame wrestling team has finished its regular season with a losing record. Losses Saturday to Nebraska and Brigham Young dropped the Irish dual meet record to 7-8. 
Undaunted, though, is second­year head coach Fran McCann. McCann was quite content with his squad's final effort before the NCAA tournament, particularly in the 22-16 loss to 12th-ranked Nebraska. 
"I was extremely pleased," he said. "They're a good team. I felt pretty good that we stayed with them." 
An upset victory by either 142­pound Pat Boyd or 190-pound Dave Helmer could have given the Irish the win. Both faced top Cor­nhusker opponents, and both lost narrow decisions. 
''We needed an upset, and we just didn't get it." said McCann. 
The 24-13 defeat by BYU includ­ed the first dual meet loss in the young Notre Dame career of 134­pound Jerry Durso. Down 8-2 after the first period, the freshman suf­fered a 10-9 setback, snapping his 15-match win streak. Durso, however, still can boast of a 36-7 record, best on the Irish squad. 
"I think yau've had afew too many." "Yau kiddin, I can drive with my eyes closed." 
i
i 
. 
• 
: 
Two highlights for McCann were double-winners John Krug and 

Chris Geneser. K.rug, now 16-16 , won a pair at 177 pounds, in-eluding a decision over Nebraska's highly-regarded Cody Olson. Thw two wins by 167-pound Geneser raised his season record to 26-13. 
McCann has little time to be discouraged by the losses. He must ready his young squad for the NCAA Western Regionals, which begin Saturday in Springfield, Mo. 
"We've had a meeting Saturday night, and we decided this was a new season for us," he says. "All the matches before this were preliminaries, but this is the main event. Our kids are motivated, and they believe they can win. This is the goal they've been shooting for all year, and now it's time to get it." 

The UmverSity 
\\ ith R1 ~x:rt Slllll111 1111 a:--l'n >'>!X·n, 
DirecledbWM__..._ 
Fresh, hot, great-1tasting pizza from DOMINO'S PIZZA®. Made to o,rder and delivered in 30 minutes, guaranteed, or you get $3.00 off your order. 
And on Tuesday, get $2.00 off any 16-inch cheese pizza with 2 or more toppings. 
lust ask for Tuesday's 
Jpecial. Available• all day this Tuesday .•.011ly from Domino's Pizza. 
II 
DOMINO'S · PIZZA •. DELIVERS., · · ., FREE. 
o_,_(lr
rJDtJ 
Call us: 
277·2151 
1835 South Bend Avenue Plaza 23 Center South Bend 
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. No coupon necessary. Just r~est the 
~"='=15 ~i~~nc. Ivery oNo. 
The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 9 
Ask one of the 3 million Americans whdve survived cancer, if the money spent on research is worth it. Weare 0 0 wtnntng. IAMERICAN WCANCEA '.SOCIETY~  Boxing club gearing up for Bengal Bouts The question for the Boxing Club a month ago Notre Dame campus. The game has been was whether or not the large turnout for the first rescheduled for March 8. Petemeeting would stay with the program through the The team is off this week because of the cancella­entire season. It appears that the large turnout was tion of the matches scheduled this week againstGegenno fluke, as the club still has more than 80 boxers Alabama and· Northern Illinois. The following preparing for next week's Bengal Bouts. week the team will travel to Fort Wayne to take onClub Corner "The kids have been really faithful this IUPU-Fort Wayne. semester," says Jack Mooney, who has been "We're too tough on the football players," jokes •coaching students for the last few years. "They've Mooney. "We're training them harder than Gerrybeen doing a lot of boxing lately, and they've im­The Women's Track Club wound up its indoor Faust did." proved 100 percent." season in Ann Arbor this past weekend in the The bouts will take place the evenings of March Silverston Invitational. For many teams this was This week the club members taper off from the 2, 5 andTat Stepan Center. Tickets are on sale at their last chance to qualify for nationals. But demanding workout load in preparation for the the Gate 10 box office of the ACC. because the club runners cannot run in the national Bengals. In his first year with the club, junior John • meet, it was a chance to top their personal bests . Weber is pleased with the season thus far. Kathleen Lehman and Christine Dragani finish­"This is the best shape I've been in my life," says The Volleyball Club had a rough week-they lost ed lOth and 12th respectively, in the 1000-yard run. Weber. "I'm really excited about boxing in the one game and were forced to postpone another. Lehman was the only runner to double, placingBengals, especially for the cause." On Tuesday the team traveled to Ball State to seventh in the 600-yard run. That cause, of course, is to raise funds for the take on the Cardinals. In the first game Notre The other three participants from Notre Dame Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. The club Dame took a 6-1 lead, but Ball State scored 14 were Maureen O'Leary, who took seventh in the hopes to surpass last year's totals of 8,500 fans and unanswered points to take the game. Then in the 300-yard run, Nancy Laughlin, who took 14th in $15,000 raised. second game the Irish were up 11-7, but were the two-mile, and Susan Rosenthal, who had a toss outscored 8-1 and dropped the game. The CardsThis year's bouts will feature two returning of 33 feet, five inches in the shot put. easily took the third game, 15-1. champions, 165-pound Don Antrobus and super­The club opens its outdoor season on March 7 at heavyweight Pernell Taylor. Taylor happens to be On Saturday, the team was to travel to Colum­Eastern Michigan, and is then off until after spring the only football player who will box in the bus to take on Ohio State, but the van the team was break. Ryan wants to use this time until April to Bengals. using broke down just as they were leaving the continue the training of the indoor season.  

Queen's Castle 
Junior Class Formal 
&The Knights 
Saturday, March 8 
$5student $8.50 cvmplet 
. cut style
Knollwood Country Club 
MINUtES AWAY FROM CAMPUS 272-0312 277-1691
Ticket Sales Wed. 6-9pm 
DISCOUNTS FOR ALL STUDENTS 
now women Included tool
LaFortune Basement 
We aleo feature the Royal Bronze Suntanning Center See a tan in •lnate• •.. Not Hoare
Limited number available 
lro-lr St. Roed 23 AcrOA From Merttn'•l 
SEAN MOREY 
l;.,e-c . 
Tonight Show with Johnny Carso The Merv Griffin Show An Evening at the Improv. 
~ 
CAROL LEIFER 
Saturday Night Live writer II.. I 9 appearances on 0 LATE. 1"'J 1e5r HI David Lettermtzn one ofAmerica's hottest comics! 
wl"Tl-t CJ'.RoL. Le.' FE~ ~ ~~ MOIU.y 
STEPAN CENTER MARCH8 Tickets available at the TicketS tub for $4 StudentActivities Board 7p.m.
I 
···································································••! 
SENIOR CLASS TRIP '87 Attention Juniors!I 
Applications are now available for Chairman of the 1987 Senior Class Trip 
Pick up applications in Student Activities Office, 1st Floor LaFortune 
Deadlinefor applying is Friday, February 28, J 986 
DePaul 
continuedfrom page 12 
Kempton joins Barlow and Royal 
in the front line averaging 6.4 
points and five rebounds per game. 
The Irish sporting a 13-0 record 
at home, are currently in a good 
groove that Phelps says he hopes 
carries into the NCAA tournament. "We played well last week, and I think we've improved quite a bit in many ways and I think that was evi­dent when we played at (North carolina) and three weeks later 
when we went and played at Duke. 
"Now we just want to keep things 
going and put ourselves in the 
positive before the NCAA tourna­
ment starts." 
Student Government 
,.... 
Questions? 

BUILD YOUR SKILLS TO BOOST YOUR SCORE! 
PREPARE FOR: 
LSAT 
• 
TEST·N-TAPE• LIBRARY 

• 
REINFORCEMENT TEST 

• 
HOMESTUDY PACKET 


1717E. South Bend Ave South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 272-4135 
The Observer Tuesday, February 25, 1986 -page 10 
Men's tennis team drops tough match to IU 

Replace Lost, Damaged, 
or Discolored Lenses at a 
Fraction of their Original 
Cost! 
*Daily Wear Lenses 
•Amsot 
•Amencan 
Hydron •Aosoft 

•Bausch 
& Lomb •Cibasott •Durasott 


$41.93 pair 
* Tmted Lenses 
• 
Bausch & Lomb Natural Tints 

• 
Cibasoft Colors 


563.97 pair 
'httndod w-Lonsos •AOSottcon $57/pr 
• Bausch & Lomb $45/pr •CooperVis•on Permalens $67/pr 
•CSIT $97/pr •Durasoft3 $57/pr •GeneSIS 4 $SS/or • Hydrocurve $75/pr. 
IF YOUR BRAND IS NOT LISTED HERE. SEND A COPY OF YOUR PRESCRIPTION AND WE WILL SEND YOU A QUOTE 
Ir--------------,
Date~--­
1 o••, 0oc101' 1 Pleas-e !>end me • cop~ ol m.,. tate\t soh 
I ~~~~~~~~n~~~~::~=~o;, r::s"s~~~~o~~~~·: I 't(h.l..,.,.,.muct\ I 
:~ -~S•gl'lllure 
I ..... ,...,., 
IR ''" 
I -···~·--
Il-------· I ., I -.. 
IR ---------­
ll I o o... : ....... 
:Cl£···~, ........ 
IL---r;ller'sS•gnat;,;--­
All lenses guaranteed first quality, and are supplied In the original factory sutod vial&. 
FOLLOW THESE 5 EASY STEPS 
1 Acqu~re your comp1ete contact len!l prescrtplton 2 Complete tne order below 3 Make check. money order or 
complete credtl card mforma•on paya­ble to CLS 1nc 4 Enc.lose name address & phone number with order 5 Ma11 all•nformat•on to 
Contact Lens Supply, Inc. 30650 Carter Rd. Cleveland, Ohio 441 39 216/248-2417 
"Contact Lens Suppliers for 25 years." 
Please send ___pain at 
only  __a pair.  UNO  
• Tot.. forlenna  
2 00=--­ 

• Shipping & Handling --·c.:. 
• Total 
I have enclosed tatal payment in the following manner:
chedt ___,order 
__ . __ VISA __MasterCard 
(Personal Checks must be cleared pnor to Shipment) 
"-'-···------­
.._________ 
• 
No single lens orders please. 

• 
We willll:eep all pr1scriptions on file for reorders. 

• 
90 °o of the lenses ordered are in our inventory and reody to be shipped in 74 hours. 


By PETE SKIKO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis 
team lost a heartbreaking 5-4 deci­
sion to Indiana at the IU Tennis 
Center in Bloomington on Sunday, 
after more than five hours of match 
play. 
The slate of six singles matches went 4-2 in favor of Indiana, which meant that the Irish needed to come away with the three doubles mat­ches in order to take the overall win. Freshman Brian Kallbas and senior Joe Nelligan rallied to win at third doubles and Tim Carr and Dave Reiter knotted the team score at four with a decisive 6-3, 6-4 win at second doubles. 
"It all came down to our number­one doubles," said Head Coach Tom Fallon, speaking of sophomores Dan Walsh and Paul Daggs. "Unfortunately, it got away from us. I was really pleased with our play, though, considering our lack of experience. We played a 
tough team and went toe-to-toe with them." 
Notre Dame's top six players consist of one senior, two sophomores, and three freshmen, with Kalbas and Carr, both 

Tom Fallon 
freshmen, holding down the top two singles positions. 
"I'd have to say that it (inex­perience) was a factor," added Fallon. "We were in control of a few matches and couldn't put them 
This Spring Break, if you and your friends are thinking about heading to the slopes, the beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound$ can take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip. 
From February 15 through April27, all you do is show us your college student I.D. card when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will 
away. But I think that's something that will resolve itself as the year goes on." 
Kalbas, the Ohio and Penn­sylvania state singles champion in high school, was disappointed with the team's narrow loss and his 2-6, 7-6, 6-1 defeat at number-one singles, but said he felt the oppo­nent and not inexperience was the main reason behind indians's vic­tory. 
"Indiana was third in the Big Ten last year," said Kalbas. "They've got some players. I mean, before the match some of us might have been a little nervous, with it being our first real college match. But once you're into it, the inexperience factor is out the window. It's you against him, your style of play against his. 
"We (the freshmen) held our own in the doubles when we needed to. Sure, we should have won the mat­ch, but there wasn't an intimidation factor involved." 
Waish won for the Irish at third singles by a 7-6, 3-6, 7-6 score and Daggs took sixth singles, 6-4, 7-5. Carr and Reiter each lost,in three sets at numbers two and five respectively, and Nelligan was 
defeated 7-6, 6-2 at number four. 
The tennis team, now 3-1 on the winter season, travels to Iowa City, Iowa for a quadrangular meet against Iowa, Iowa State, and Nor­thern Illinois this weekend. 
Saving 
babies is our goal! 
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date of purchase. So this Spring Break, get a real break. Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. For more information, call Greyhound. 
Must present a valid college student I.D. card upon purchase. No other disrounts apply. Ticketsare nontnnsferable and good for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc., and other paru.c1paung earners. Ceruun resuictions apply. Offer effectiV< 2115186. Offer limited. Not valid in Canada 

~---GREYHOUND 
leavethe driving to us: 
Michiana Regional Airport, 4671 Terminal Drive, South Bend, IN, 287-6541 
' I'ISh (ire\'hounJ Lme,, Inc 
--------------------------------------------------------·----------------------------------------------------------------------­
'JI['~~~~-----------------------------------------------T-ue•s•d-ay_,_F_e.br•u•a-ry•2•5•,•1-98_6_-_p_a.ge--ll-­
Bloom County nreathed The Far Side Gary Larson 
WHO'S 
8UN 
Stmr!N" 
Af 1/S, 
li/Kt ?/ £)(CU5t \ Me ... 
\ 
Zeto 
CLASS, r WANT 'IU ()1:5CUSS 'I'~ Ess-\'?.5 Wlll4 '{OU. T~-JrRt SEEMS 
TO 8£ A MIXUP WlrH 

The Daily Crossword 
ACROSS 1 Dandles 5 Macaws 9 Partnerol 
curds 13 "Let's make-" 15 Gr. cheese 16 Legendary 
loser 17 Chutzpah 18 Kiln 19 Russ. tyrant 20 Flowery 
environment 22 Mrs. Tracy 23 Idle gossip 24 Public rhubarb 26 Frolic 30 Counterloll 31 Quality 32 Give the 
eye to 35 Man 39 Conductor's 
wand 41 -Marla 42 Wearaway 43 Harriet 
Beecher­44 Branch 46 Musical sign 47 Nothing lor 
Pedro 49 Abominates 51 Adhesive 53 Limits 55 Impression 56 Infrared 
radiation 62 "Do­
others..." 63 Oz author 64 "-Grows In 
Brooklyn" 65 Ever and­66 Man or Wight 67 Be filled with 
longing 68 Unit of force 69 Gr. letters 70 Indian peasant 
DOWN 1 Pointed tooth 2 Czech river 3 "-Gorlot" 4 Except 
AFTF;R 1Ht BOYS SHOOT, 5KIN ANV' fJUr 1H6 80TH OF YOU I weu sr;; 1YtN& vou ro me; ftN~R Of OUR TRUCK ANV 
TAKIN& YOU HOM£ 1V 6AT. NOW mwI How PO vou PRW~R ro Be PRW.R£!7 ?... 
\ 
QUESTIONS 1 WERE CLEARL'f ANl> Mo.NV OF 
Pill \IE:RY WEU ~OWr;:\/ER ••• 
Campus 
*3:30 P.M. Computer Minicourse, Lotus, part l: Room 104 Computing Center *4:30 P.M. -Colloquium, "Theorems That 
Can't Be Proven," Prof. Ted Slaman, University of Chicago, Room 226 Computer Cente and Math Building, Sponsored by the 
Math Dept. 
*4:30 P.M. -Seminar, "Immune Effector 
Mechanisms Against Malaria," Dr. James 
Jensen, Michigan State University, Room 
283 Galvin Life Sciences Center, Sponsored 
by the Biology Dept. 
*5 P.M. -Open House, Off-Campus Hous­
ing Night, Basement of LaFortune, Spon­
sored by the Notre Dame Student Govern­
ment 

le1986 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 2/25/86 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 

2125/86 
40 Orderly 54 Vertices 45 Pitcher's 55 Twosome 
no-no 57 Endure 48 Ms. Reynolds 58 Brain channel 50 Secure 59 Drab 51 Ms Marshall 60 Pedestal 52 Dvorak occupant 53 Ms Prentiss 61 Shelter 

All Rights Reserved 
5 "-and his 
money-..." 6 Kind of show 7 Roscoe of film 8 Most sensible 9 Tree 
10 Hideaway 11 Expunge 12 Hankerings 14 Slowly on 
the keyboard 21 Aura 25 Die 26 Sailors 27 Islamic un· 
written law 28 Fictional 
detective 29 Type of house 30 Be apparently 
true 33 Celebration 34 56 36 Water game 37 Ger. river 38 Puzzle clues 
lor short 
'11/Af A 
6VNCH Of...Of... 
1HAr'l7 B€
ANIMAL5l1 7Ht ROA5T5 
1H€N. FIN€./ 
\ 
••• Wi-lEN U61<8) '{Ct.J TO fLICK PEANUT­
IN THE" RlUI?TH QUEsn BolTeR OUT" OF '(OUR TO l:>E516N ANl>/W;Wf:R 1
D~,:S~ o~ =~/l\'f, n
YouR OWN QUESfiON, I 
/NTEN!>ei>FOR "THAI QUeSTION rol>f'N WIT1-! OUR CLASS CONTENT 
RA!l4ER THAN ••• 
*5:30 P.M. -.Meeting, N.D.F.L.O.C. Sup­port Group, Center for Social Concerns *6:30 P.M. -Meeting, AIESEC officers, Room 220 Hayes-healy *7:30P.M. -MEn's Basketball, Notre Dame vs. DePaul, ACC Arena *7:30 P.M. -Lecture, "Heritage: Civiliza­tion and the Jews," Memorial Library Auditorium, Sponsored by the Theology 
•s P.M. 
Dept. Crown-Minow Lecture Series  
*7:30  P.M.  -Movie,  "The Locket,"  An­ 
nenberg  Auditorium,  Sponsored  by  the  
Tuesday Night Film Series  

-Recital, James Welch, organist, Sacred Heart Church, Sponsored by the Music Dept. 


-.. ·-----~-------------------­
... 
Tuesday, February 25, 1986-page 12
S~orts 
Blue Demons need to defeat Irish tonight to help tournament chances 
By RICK RIETBROCK Leading the DePaul charge will that game at the Rosemont be junior forward D alias Comegys Horizon, the Irish snapped a six­
Sports Writer 
and freshman point guard Rod game losing streak against the 
A week ago, DePaul was in the Strickland. Comegys, a high school Demons with . a 70-54 victory midst of a four-game losing streak teammate of Notre Dame's Mark behind 24 points from David Rivers and rumors questioning the job Stevenson at Roman Catholic High and 18 points from Ken Barlow. security of Blue Demons' head School in Philadelphia, leads the Strickland paced DePaul with 14 coach Joey Meyer were in abun­Demons in scoring with 14.5 points and added nine assists. dance. average, and is second in rebounds DePaul has 1-3 record in round­
The DePaul squad that visits with six per game. Strickland robin play against the major in­Notre Dame tonight, however, is averages 13.7 points per game and dependents, while Notre Dame has quite a different group. It is fresh 5.1 assists. Phelps regards the 6-3 a 2-1 mark. DePaul has split with off victories over Indiana State and floorleader as "one of the best Dayton, winning 66-52 at home No. 6 St. John's that have raised its guards in college backetball." and losing at Dayton, 77-64, and record to 15-10 and have rekindled Expected to round out the also dropped a five-point decision hopes of an NCAA tournament DePaul starting lineup are 6-9 at Marquette. berth. senior Marty Embry (6. 7 points, The Irish, coming off consecutive 
This turnaround has Irish head 7.2 rebounds) at center, 6-4 · blowouts over Miami and Manhat­coach Digger Phelps wary of the freshman Terence Greene (6.3 ten, figure to start their usual five Blue Demons heading into tonight's points, 2.9 rebounds) at forward, against the Blue Demons as for­contest scheduled for 7:30 in the and sophomore Andy Laux (0.9 ward Donald Royal (10.2 points, ACC. points, 0.8 assists). 4.7 rebounds) and guard Mark 
This lineup, with essentially three Stevenson (8.2 points, 2.3 re­"Just as when we faced Maryland guards (Strickland, Greene and bounds) return to the lineup afterhere a few weeks ago, we are aware Laux) moves 6-8 senior forward missing star~s because of a hip in­of how good they are, and they're Kevin Holmes, who had been a jury and illness, respectively. 
ready to explode," Phelps says. "I starter instead of Laux, to the ben­Sophomore guard David Riversthing DePaul just got tired of los­ch. Holmes averages 8.8 points and continues to lead the Irish in scor­ing and they played very, very well 5.4 rebounds per game and is join­ing at 16 points per game while ad­against St. John's. 
ed by 6-5 senior swingman Tony ding nearly 4.8 assists per contest. 
"Now DePaul comes in here with Jackson (8.2 points, 4.2 rebounds) Ken Barlow, coming off a career­a lot of momentum and knowing and 6-11 senior center Lemone high 28-point game in Miami, has that this is countdown time and the Lampley (8.1 points, 5.2 rebounds) seen his average creep up and now independents are all playing each as Joey Meyer's top reserves. stands at 15.3 points per game, other. They're in a position, like Notre Dame and DePaul have while leading the team with 5.5 re­we were last year, to play for an met once already this year as part bounds per game. Senior Tim NCAA bid and I think that's what of the home-and-home series 
see DePAUL, page 9 
DePaul's coming in here to do." between the major independents. In 
Underclassmen carry swim team to NSC crown 
By KATHLEEN McKERNAN Sports Writer The women's swim team won its third consecutive North Star Con­ference championship at the three­day meet this weekend, scoring 519 points to host and closest com­petitor Evansville's 467. "One good thing about this was that we were deep enough," Irish head coach Tim Welsh noted. "We had allowed all juniors who wanted to stay to stay for Junior Parents' Weekend. We hoped the underclassmen would carry the meet." And they did.  Last Thursday, sophomore Amy Darlington opened the individual events for the Irish with a win in the 500-yard freestyle. A medley team of freshmen Kelly Quinn, Tracy Johnson, sophomore Barbara Byrne, and senior co-captain Venette Cochiolo led off the com­petition, taking first in the 500­yardrelay. "Those first victories really set the tone for the rest of the week," said Welsh. "It was a very solid open­ing." The meet was divided into open­ing and championship heats. First, 12 entries competed in each event. Then the top six finishers advanced  to the championship where they swam another race in a fight for their place in the top six. Notre Dame's depth was apparent when its younger swimmers began to fill the places in the championship races. Sophomore Nancy O'Brien made the championship finals in her key events of the 100 and 200-yard backstroke. Monica Smith, accor­ding to Welsh, also made substanti'\l time drops. "Monica, Nancy and Holianne (Logan) were able to populate the big (championship) team for us," Welsh said. "Usually when a team  begins to do that, they begin to take the meet." Freshman Kelly Quinn also made important contributions. On Fri­day, she had four swims which she handles extremely well, according to Welsh. "She did a terrific job," Welsh noted. "If she had been unable to handle it we would have been in trouble. She really helped the pro­gram." On the second day, the Irish received further inspiration through the presence of former coach Dennis Stark. Before Welsh's arrival this year, Stark had coached  ihe women's team in its previous four years of existence. "It was wonderful," Welsh noted. "He came at a time when we were a little bit flat. The en­thusiasm he generated was just great." Other winners over the weekend were Andrea Bonny in the one and three-meter diving and Cochiolo in the 100 and 200-yard breaststroke. Anne Costello, a sophomore in her first year of collegiate swimming, also took first in the 1650-yard freestyle. Darlington established a new school record in the 400-yard individual relay with her time of 4:47.41.  
Hockey team drops 2,  
suffers 3 more injuries  
Special to Tbe Observer  Frank  O'Brien  missed  the  series  
with leg injuries.  
The Notre Dame team lost more  The only bright spot was that the  
than just a pair of games to Nor­ injuries paved the way for some oL  
thern Arizona this weekend  -it  the younger players to shine on the  
lost three more players to injuries,  trip. Freshman Bob Gerber enjoyed  
something it could ill afford.  his finest series as a Notre Dame  
In  Friday's  series-opening  8-5  player, scoring two goals in Friday  
loss, co-captain Bob Thebeau went  night's game and adding a goal and  
down  with  a  knee  injury  and  an  assist  in  Saturday's  contest.  
sophomore  Tom  Mooney  was  Sophomore Mike McNeill chipped  
knocked out of the game with  a  in with two goals and an assist in  
head  injury.  Saturday,  the  Irish  the series.  
- dropped an 11-5 decision, and lost junior Rich Sobilo to a shoulder separation. Notre· Dame head coach Lefty Smith was already forced to leave four of his regulars home when the  "We came out Friday night and played well until Bob and Tom went down," said Smith. "We were down by one goal in the third period and the roof caved in on us."  
Irish left for  the series  with  the  "North Dakota State's program  
The Observer/Hannes Haelr.er  Lumber  Jacks.  Graduate  student  is very young but they have proven  
Brent  Chapman  and  senior  Jeff  that  they  are  competitive,"  said  


Irish sophomore defenseman Lance Patten car­thern Arizona, dropping two games and losing three Badalich were sidelined with Smith. "How we play this weekend ries up the ice in Irish hockey action against Penn more players to injuries. Story at right. shoulder separations, while junior will depend in part on who we can State. Notre Dame bad a tough weekend at Nor-John Nickodemus and sophomore get back from the injured list. 







