CD's-page 6 

VOL. XXI, NO. 64 
the independent student newspaper serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Howard Hall to house women next fall 
By MARY HEILMANN Assistant News Editor 
Howard Hall will become a women's undergraduate dor­mitory in the fall of 1987 as part of a plan to raise the enrollment of women at Notre Dame, the Office of Student Affairs an­nounced Monday. 
In a letter received by Howard Hall residents Mon­day, Father David Tyson, vice president for student affairs, also announced that Holy Cross Hall will close and be returned to the Priests of the Holy Cross in the fall of 1988 and Carroll Hall will become a graduate men's hall in the fall of 1989. 
"We are very aware of the 

1-..~ ~-VFc'}'-r ·-r;.
....
:1 :,; ·.. ~' f)j Jt}CA.i( .>: 

;. . ;· L <+~!--) "-·! ~tP(rA~"\ 

The Observer /Todd Tucker 
Home sweet home no longer 
The above note by Howard rec­tor Father Eugene Gorski tries to calm uproarious Howard residents who will be dispersed next year into other dorms as disappointment and disruption that this decision may cause you. Nonetheless, we are con­vinced that the above program is necessary and the least dis­ruptive to the whole campus," Tyson said in the letter. 
Howard  is  converted  to  a  
female  dorm.  Stories  above  
and at right.  

The enrollment shift, author­ized by the University's Board of Trustees, dictates an in­crease in the number of womem admitted to the Uni­versity by 600, Tyson said in the letter. 
This increase will be achieved by adding 150 women a year over a four-year period to the freshman class, begin­ning in the fall of 1987 and con­tinuing through the fall of 1990. Simultaneously, 150 less men will be admitted each of these years, Tyson added. 
As part of this ratio shift, the University will commence con­struction of two new women's undergraduate dormitories this spring, as well as gradually reduce the number of undergraduate men's residence halls, the letter said. 
Proposals to implement this enrollment program were of­fered to the president and the six vice presidents of the Uni­versity, Tyson said in an inter­view Monday. 
"The decision (to select Howard Hall) was based on a number of factors," Tyson said. "We looked at the shifting enrollment over a four-year 


I 
j --...."' -~ r
.. 
• " ........... .,._, .... 
\ 
period. We had to decrease the number of men, increasing the number of women in next year's freshman class. Given these numbers and Howard's location, it was decided by the office of the University to select Howard Hall." 
"The decision was made just recently," Tyson added. "About three weeks ago it was decided by the officers." 
"What we'll be doing is reducing the number of beds for freshman men by 150 per year," Tyson said. He added that the men displaced from Howard "will be spread throughout the other dorms 
see HOWARD, page 4 
The Ubserver /Todd Tucker 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1986 
At A Glance 
• 
Howard Hall will become a hall for undergraduate wo­men in the fall of 1987. 

• 
Holy Cross Hall will close and be returned to the Priests of Holy Cross in the fall of 1988. 

• 
Carroll Hall will become a graduate men's hall in the fall of 1989. 

• 
Two women's dorms will be constructed beginning this spring. 


Source: Office of Student Alflllre 


Banners fly as residents protest change 
By PATTY CENSKY Copy Editor 
The sudden news that Howard Hall will become a wo­men's dormitory next fall has prompted various reactions from the student body, from bedsheet artwork to the crea­tion of the Howard Liberation Organization. 
Shortly after the letters were received, Howard residents draped their hall in bedsheet banners sporting such slogans as "Walk like an Eviction" and "Rooms for Rent (girls only)." 
According to Kieran Weldon, a Howard Hall sophomore, residents are upset about the breaking up of Howard's fraternity-like atmosphere as well as the loss of its traditions, such as the Howard Hat and Tie party, and its inter hall sports teams. 
While they realize there is a future need for more women's dorms, residents are primarily protesting the administration's method of informing them, he added. Weldon said that the residents do not appreciate being given such short notice 
see BANNERS, page 4 



Howard Hall president seeks Student Senate assistance 
By DAVID T. LEE sophomore classes to get to­the move, according to Senate Sheehy. "It's something that works Staff Reporter gether" and keep sections from members. Some residents, for "We have to design some sort out pretty well," said Thoman. coming apart. example, learned of the change of program that makes stu­She said some students have 
Howard Hall President Jim "We do not know how produc­from women who had received dents aware of their responsi­signed a contract agreeing to Bradford sought support from tive it is going to be," said letters soliciting girls to move bility (to remain sober while drive home intoxicated stu­the Student Senate Monday Howard Treasurer Chris into Howard. driving)," said Executive Co­dents regardless of the time of night to oppose the University Grandpre. "We are looking for The Student Senate also dis­ordinator Mike Jaeger. night. decision to change Howard into support from the student cussed ways to promote a cam­The campaign will include Jaeger contended that "it's a a women's dorm. body." paign against drunk driving. posters, guest speakers, and problem of putting that student 
"We are at a loss to what we The Senate agreed to write a "We want to create an movies to teach students the (driver) where he is going to are going to do next year,'' said letter to Vice President for Stu­awareness and educate people perils of driving while intox­be liable for transporting Bradford. "The University has dent Affairs Father David to what drinking and driving icated. people around." turned their backs on us." Tyson lending support to can do," said Bacchus Club Off-Campus President Tracy Another proposal to extend 
Bradford suggested prefer­Howard residents. President John Sheehy. Thoman suggested programs Buzz Bus hours by an hour to ential treatment for Howard The letter will attack the fail­Sheehy said it will sponsor similar to the "I'm Driving 3:45 a.m. received support, residents in changing their ure to consult with the rector Alcohol Awareness Week next Club" sponsored by Bridget's, despite initial worries of the ex­halls. He also said he wants the or the hall staff beforehand, semester in conjunction with which allows drivers, when tra costs incurred. University to "somehow help and the "callous attitude" of student government. "It's to wearing a badge, to get free 
see SENATE, page 4 

out guys in the freshman and the University in carrying out promote education," said soft drinks and stay sober. 
---------~----------~-­
The Observer Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 2 

In Brief 
Premier Jacques Chirac of France withdrew a bill Mon­day to revise the state-run university system, giving in to a three-week campaign of sometimes violent protests by high school and college students in Paris. In the Latin Quarter, the capital's student district, about 30,000 demonstrators marched peacefully through the streets to mourn the death of a 22-year-old student who had been beaten by police. The government has said the measure would make higher education more competitive, but crit­ics claim it is elitist and diminishes students' freedom of choice. -Associated Press 

Of Interest 
A Mass in memory of Michael C. Cogswell,the Zahm Hall junior who died after he was struck by a car Friday night, will be offered Wednesday at 5 p.m. in Sacred Heart Church. University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will celebrate the Mass. Assistant Vice President for Stu­dent Affairs Father David Tyson will be the concelebrant and Zahm Hall Rector Father Thomas King will deliver the homily. Those wishing to help plan the liturgy may call Junior Class President Cathy Nonnenkamp at 283-2690 or 239-5117. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Shenanigans' Christmas concert is tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. Ticket vouchers may be ex­changed for a reserve ticket at the door until 7:45. Any unredeemed tickets after this time will be distributed on a first-come basis. Admission is free. -The Observer 
Applications for R.A. selection may be picked up in the Student Affairs office by interested students who will study abroad next semester. No applications will be given to any interested students after January 16, 1987. Completed applications, three recommendations and, where re­quired, letters of approval, must be on file in the Office of Student Affairs. -The Observer 
"Biochemistry of TN3 Transposition" will be the focus of a Biological Sciences Seminar today at 4:30 p.m. in 283 Galvin Life Sciences Center. Speaking will be Dr. Michael Fennewald of Notre Dame's biology department. Coffee will be served at 4:15. -The Observer 
"Creativity Awards in Graduate Engineering," which are not solely based on academic achievement, offer grants for up to $30,000 a year. To apply, send a research idea to the National Science Foundation in Washington, 
D.C. by February 1, 1987. For more information, contact the Office of the Dean of Engineering or the chairmen of the engineering departments. -The Observer 
Observer Of Interests and in Briefs can be submitted to the Day Editor at The Observer office on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center until1 p.m. prior to the date of publication. Of Interests announce free campus-wide events of general interest. The Observer reserves the right to edit all Of Interests. -The Observer 

Weather 
No matter what the other reindeer say, you may be wishing Rudolf's red nose were here to help find your way through the drizzle and light rain changing to snow that you will find yourself in Tues­day afternoon. High in the lower 40s in the morning, low in the 30s in the after­noon. Colder Tuesday night and Wednes­

day with a 60 percent chance of snow showers likely.-Associated Press 

Design Editor .. . ...... ,Alice Kroeger Design Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . Mike Mojica Layout Staff... . . . . . . . Lisa Tugman Typesetter ... . . Pat Clark ............................... Becky Gunderman News Editor... ............ Jim Riley Copy Editor . . . . . . .. . . . Karen Webb Sports Copy Editor .......... Terry Lynch Viewpoint Copy Editor ... . 
.................................. Gertie Wimmer Viewpoint Layout .......... Heidi Traxler Accent Copy Editor .... Gertie Wimmer Accent Layout... . . . . . . . . . Carey Gels Typist . . . . . . . . Colleen Foy ND Day Editor .. ... Alison Pivonka SMC Day Editor .. Theresa Harrington Ad Design.. . . . . . . . . . . . . Sharon Emmite Photographer... . ..... Todd Tucker 
The Obsener (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Obsener is published by the students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchas­ed for $40 per year ($25 per semester) by writing The Obsener, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. 
The Obsener is a member of The Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


World events swirl by while students remain sheltered 
The controversy over the arms sale to Iran is the biggest national news item of the past couple of weeks. The front pages of newspapers have been filled with stories concerning the press conference, the investigation, and Reagan's handling of the situation. 
I have to admit, though, that I was a little slow in realizing what was going on. I did not find out about the controversy until the follow­ing day when the topic was brought up for dis­cussion in one of my classes, and even then I did not pay much attention to it. 
This lackadaisical attitude I have acquired bothers me for two reasons. First, ever since I arrived on this campus, I have paid little if any attention to national and international stories and incidents. Unlike my current situation, in high school I used to read the daily newspaper and a weekly news magazine cover-to-cover and watch the 10 p.m. news every night, ab­sorbing everything that was going on in the world. 
Second, even when national or international incidents are brought to my attention, they just don't catch my interest. It is all too easy while living at Notre Dame to ignore the rest of the world, to rationalize that incidents taking place other than in my back yard have no direct bearing on me personally. 
I could offer excuses, such as lack of time, for my ignorance of the goings-on in the world. However, the more important question is, how long can one isolate himself from the world? 
During the past summer, something hap­pened in which that remote reality suddenly became a little bit more personal. 
A friend of mine was trying to transfer to Notre Dame over the summer. In July she told me she did not make it in, and that one of the reasons was the unusually low number of spots open for the fall semester. The reason for that, she was told by the Admissions Office, was fewer students were participating in the foreign study program because of, you guessed it, ter­rorism. 
I was upset she did not make it, and I was mad about the reasons given. Terrorism was just one, but it made the biggest impression, maybe because I had never considered it as possibly affecting my life. 
After that, I should have been more conscious of terrorism in the world. But another incident this semester proved otherwise. 
On Sept. 5, four Arab gunmen hijacked Pan Am flight 74 in Karachi, Pakistan. Sixteen people were killed and 50 were severely injured. 
That afternoon I walked into the room of my neighbor, a junior and an Army ROTC schol­arship holder. He was watching the special report on the television -I, on the other hand, hardly knew what was happening. I asked him what was going on, and he turned to me and said in a very serious manner,"Terrorist acts like this really ----me off." 

Several points can be made here. First, I could never say the same thing with the same level of sincerity. Second, it was obvious that the prior incident had taught me nothing about responsibility concerning national issues. I still had the capability to ignore an important inter­national incident. 
Third, I don't believe I'm the sole owner of this ability. I think most students on this campus can live without having a clue as to what is going on in the world. A sense of re­sponsibility to one's country, to other people outside the campus, is definitely lacking in many people's lives here. 
I don't mean to implicate every person on this campus -obviously ROTC is doing some­thing right, and many other students through groups and classes also have a sense of respon­sibility. Let's just say it is too convenient to ignore incidents such as hijackings and bom­bings while living on this campus. 
Many people really do lead sheltered lives around here. I know I still try to hide under my blanket of ignorance, but when the world catches up to you at Notre Dame, it's hard to ignore. 

FRESHMEN I 
NOW THAT YOU'VE SETTLED IN AND KNOW YOUR WAY AROUND CAMPUS, WHY NOT TAKE STEPS TOWARD LEARNING YOUR WAY AROUND THE WORLD! ALONG WITH THE CHALLENGE OF SERVING AS A 
NAVAL AVIATOR, SUBMARINER, OR ::7-S~URF~A:..::C:::.E _LI_N_E OFFICER, YOU MAY SPEND YOUR SUMMERS BROADENING YOUR HORIZONS! 
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONsiBILITY FAST. 

A THREL~ YEAR SCHOLARSHIP ($27 ,000) MAY BE EARNED BY JOINING THE NROTC UNIT IN YOUR FRESHMEN YEAR! FOR DETAILS CALL LT WACHTL AT 239-6063! 
The Observer Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 3 
Reagan approved deal: McFarlane 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Robert McFarlane, President Reagan's former national se­curity adviser, contradicted previous accounts from admin­istration officials on Monday, testifying under oath that the president approved an "in­direct" shipment of arms to Iran in August 1985. 
As the public accounting of the Reagan administration's foreign policy fiasco began on Capitol Hill, Secretary of State George Shultz -also under oath before the House Foreign Af­fairs Committee -denied in­volvement in the transfer of Iranian arms sale profits to Nicaraguan rebels, saying he had "zero" knowledge of the "illegal" diversion of money. 
Shultz, en route to London to consult with U.S. allies, later retracted his accusation that the diversion of some profits was an illegality, because "I don't know the facts and I don't know who did exactly what." 
As Shultz and McFarlane ap­peared separately before the committee, the Justice Depart­ment released the text of its application to a federal appel­late court panel in Washington, seeking appointment of an in­dependent counsel to probe possible criminal activity in the affair. 

The request raised the possi­bility that the granting of im­munity from prosecution may be necessary to get to the bot­tom of the affair. It was not im­mediately clear when the three-member panel would act to name the counsel. 
Marine Lt. Col. Oliver North, fired as a top National Security Council aide, and "other U.S. government officials" were mentioned as likely targets of the investigation. · 
McFarlane said the presi­dent gave oral authorization for the transfer of U.S.­supplied weapons to Iran in Au­gust 1985. 
Local McDonalds has bomb scare 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -City police refused comment Mon­day on a weekend bomb threat at a McDonald's Restaurant. 
The restaurant was evacuated Sunday evening and the area around the McDonald's cordoned off by city police after the threat. In­vestigators refused to confirm a report that a pipe bomb was removed from the restaurant. 
Detective Chief Donald Ruszkowski said the police have an on-going investigation regarding all McDonald's and other restaurants. 
Ruszkowski refused further comment on the threat and would not say whether a bomb had actually been found. 
No comment was issued on any possible connection be­tween the incident, a fire bomb threat at another McDonald's and recent fires at two other McDonald's in the city last week. 

The South Bend Fire Depart­ment has requested the State Fire Marshal to investigate the two fires. 
According to witnesses at the Sunday incident, the area around the restaurant was blocked off and a command center was set up at a nearby restaurant. 
f 
,, it...
,
' . 




J._ •' 
-The Observer /Todd Tucker
Back to school? 
President-elect Father Edward Malloy writes a letter to help free a political prisoner at Monday night's Amnesty International Write-a-thon at the Center for Social Concerns. He was also the featured speaker at the meeting. 
Saint Mary's Board of Governanc~e hears sisters' mission 
By SHARON HEGG News Staff 
At last night's meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Gover­nance, Sr. Francis Bernard O'Conner, Superior General of the Sisters of Holy Cross, spoke to the board about the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross 
and  their  mission  at  Saint  
Mary's.  
The  board  also  discussed  

senior comprehensives. 
Sr. O'Conner said the mission of the Sisters of the Holy Cross as defined in their consitution "has always been to translate by our lives what we mean by the mission. That is freedom of the oppressed and proclaiming the good news to the poor." 
She explained that their spe­cial concern is to build a society of justice and love. One of the ways that the Sisters of the Holy Cross achieve this goal is through Catholic education. 
According to Sr. O'Conner, the mission at Saint Mary's is the desire to reveal God's love to all people, and freedom of oppression of all kind, spiritual and emotional. 
Sr. O'Conner said the philos­ophy of education of the Sisters 
SENIORS 

Where will I be next year? What will I be doing? Where do I really want to invest myself, my time and my talent? 
When you are considering options, don'tjorget: 

HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
A ONE YEAR LAY VOLUNTEER SERVICE PROGRAM WITH COMMUNITIES IN ARIZONA, CALIFORNIA, OREGON, AND COLORADO. 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 

JanePiu Moreau Seminary or Phone: 239-5521 
Mary Ann Roemer Centerfor Social Concerns phone: 239-7949 
of Holy Cross is to foster com­mittment to world justice and to foster peace. The aim is to get students to recognize the so­cial differences and to live ac­cording to the Christian social principles. _ 
She sees Saint Mary's as a college "where the relationship with the laity is alive and well, where it carries out functions with the Church." 
Rebecca Hetland, campus ministry commissioner, said that the student committee ex­aming the mission of the col­lege has met once. 
We are finding a way to let students know who the Sisters of the Holy Cross are. After the mission statement is upgraded we want to incorporate this into their (the students) every day lives," explained Hetland. 
In other business, Betsy Burke, vice president for aca­demic affairs and collge rela­tions, met with Teresa Marcy, assistant to the vice president, regarding senior comprehen­sives. Marcy explained that the senior comprehensives replaced a final undergraduate exam. She said each depart­ment was given a free reign to devise a senior comprehensive 
8
e • • • .::! 
•
• UNIVERSITY HAl~ 5TYLJ5T5 

wdCtJl!J1.UtjtJL&to~ 



-NEW­

GRAND OPENING 
-]1\1 LAFORIUN E" BA-SEMENT -OP~ LATE EvEN I NqS. 
J 
and that is why there is so much diversity. 
According to Marcy, ''the professors assume the students do know about senior com­prehensives and their require­ments and deadlines," said Burke. 
Burke said she met with the Academic Council to discuss the issue. The council said stu­dents were not informed early enough and suggested that when students declare a major, they should meet with the de­partment to discuss what is to come in the next two years. 

the 

"GOLDER DOME" 
1n a. 6-oolor limited edition lithograph by 

SCOft L. HJ:liDBD 
(see it hanging 1n the OBSERVER o!!ioe.) edition: 950 artist proofs: 50 Price •3Q.00 POST PAID 
Bend check or M.O. to: HENDRIE DESIGN STUDIO 1704 Morton Avenue Elkh&rt, IN 46616 IND. OrdeJ:w Add 8'"' Tu/8h1p 1 Wk. 

The Observer Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 4 




Banners 
continuedfrom page 1 
only a week before finals, and that they see no reason why Howard was chosen except for the correspondence in the num­ber of its residents to the num­ber of women who will be added. 
"Maybe Morrissey is behind it," he jokingly suggested. 
Many students said they sympathize with the Howard residents. According to Ron George, a freshman living in Holy Cross, "Howard got a raw deal." 
George also agrees with the Howard residents that they should have been given more time to get used to the idea. He finds the Holy Cross move of 1988 less objectionable since he has been given two year's notice. 
Troy Thibodeaux, a Carroll Hall freshman, said he under­stands how the Howard resi­dents must feel since he also received a letter Monday in­forming him that he will have to move out of his dorm before his senior year. 
"Carroll is my home away from home and so I'm not going to want to leave," he said. Thibodeaux added that he thinks "nothing will be the same" when Carroll becomes a graduate students' dorm and so is considering moving off campus his senior year. "You can't replace the Vermin (the residents' nickname)," he 


Senate 
continuedfrom page 1 
A proposal to have the Buzz Bus offer transportation to the bars however, met tepid sup­port because of liability. The Administration, would see the move as being "conducive to drinking," said Senator John Gardiner. 
The Senate also debated a change in the Student Constitu­tion which would prevent dis­crimination against students based on "sexual orientation" when they run for an elected student office. 
"We want to make sure they are not discriminated against. It is not meant to condone homosexual behavior," said Senator Brian Holst. 
Jaeger opposed the move, saying, "I really do not feel it is necessary to recognize sexual orientatio~ in the Stu­dent Constitution.' 
Gardiner explained that "un­less it is down in black and white, nothing is going to hap­pen." 
"It is saying that we are open," said Holst. 

Student Body President Mike Switek said that although stu­dents attending Notre Dame "should not feel uncomfortable going here ... there is no need for recognition from the Uni­versity." 
Gardiner gave Marquette as an example of a Catholic school which has incorporated and al­lowed homosexuals to form a group on campus. 
"I do not see them (the Ad­ministration) being more liberal," said Jaeger, but Gar­diner disagreed. 
No action was taken on the amendment. 
The Senate learned that elec­tions for the student body pres­ident and Senate will take place on Feb. 17, with the campaigns beginning Feb. 2. Class elec­tions will occur March 10, with campaigning to begin .Feb. 23.. 
added. 
Junior Mary Elberson, a res­ident of Lyons Hall, said she is glad that Notre Dame is admit­ting more women but would prefer that the Howard resi­dents not be displaced. In her opinion, "There must be a bet­ter way." 
As far as having the choice to move into Howard, many Notre Dame women say that, although they like Howard, they prefer to remain with their friends. "I would never want to leave my dorm," said Junior Cathy Crinieri, a Pasquerilla West resident. 
When asked what Howard residents are doing about the 


Howard 
continuedfrom page 1 
and Housing will do their best to meet the preferences" indi­cated by the former Howard residents. 
Along with Tyson's letter, Howard residents received a questionnaire from the Office of Student Housing asking them their preferences for dor­mitory reassignment and quad location, as well as whether or not they intend to live off campus next year. 
Although the Office stated the questionnaire is "simply in­formational and obligates nei­ther you nor the University," it indicated that plans for the redistribution procedure would be based on the questionnaire results. 
"Howard Hall residents have until Jan. 23 to turn in the forms," said Director of Stu­dent Housing Evelyn Reinebold. "Then, if a lottery appears necessary to dis­tribute the people, which it ap­pears it almost certainly will be, then we will hold it and they (the Howard residents) will be notified January 28 of their new hall." 
"The former Howard resi­
dents will be included in that 
hall's room picks as if they had 
been a permanent resident of situation, Kiernan said that they are wearing black or white armbands with the words "Howard Homeless" in protest. Kiernan also men­tioned that residents are ban­ding together in the Howard Liberation Organization, or the HLO. The HLO has already started to operate, chanting protestations in South Dining Hall Monday, ~iernan said. 
Several residents said they question whether these at­tempts to reverse the adminis­tration's decision will work. As Weldon put it, "the guys here (in Howard) know that the decision is irreversible. We just want to hear from Tyson him­self." 
that hall," Reinebold said. "They will not drop to the bot­tom of the list.'' 
Reinebold said a lottery ap­pears likely because, of the seven or eight surveys which have been returned to her of­fice, all the respondents had in­dicated the same dorm as their first preference. "Of course it's a little too early to tell," Reinebold said, "but it seems unlikely that all the requests will be granted.'' 
Commenting on the Univer­sity's decision, Howard Hall Rector Father Eugene Gorski said, "I naturally am disap­pointed by this news but I respond to it with understand­ing and cooperation. And I en­courage and ask my fellow resi­dents to do the same." 
Carrol Hall Rector Father Michael Sullivan expressed similar feelings on the Univer­sity's decision to convert Car­roll to a graduate men's dor­mitory. 
"I would say that my feelings are ambiguous in the sense that I can understand why the Uni­versity made that decision, as it was a necessary decision for their purposes," Sullivan said. "But at the same time it was a tough decision in terms of people who live in the hall, in­cluding myself, because it will be disruptive of the living con­ditions for all involved," he added. 

------·-­
ATTENTION ALL JUNIORS:
t ­

tIfwe do not get your name and address, your parents will not receive the proper information...._ 
We'll do your laundry for you (same day service) 
Open 7am-1 Opm, 7 days a week Professional dry cleaning By S&S Dry Cleaners-1 day service 50 washers & dryers (all siz~s) AHendent on 277-9856 

Hondurans patrol border seeking remaining invaders 
Associated Press 
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras­Honduran troops, flown by U.S. helicopters, hunted for strag­glers Monday of a Nicaraguan force that Honduran officers say crossed the border during the weekend and burned three deserted villages. 
A military intelligence source said the troops also were acting as a guard against further incursions. 
The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 
~xplaining the Carroll deci­sion; Tyson said that it was made because "we felt a need for graduate student housing." 
"They (graduate students) would like about four of them (dorms). Right now, the only other graduate men's dorm is St. Joseph's Hall," Tyson noted. 
Sullivan said that he was in­
formed of the conversion plan 
"shortly before the students 
were informed, but not much 
earlier. I had no long-range 
knowledge of the decision." 
Father Patrick Sullivan, rec­tor of Holy Cross Hall, said that although the actual formal statement of the dormitory changes was announced Mon­day, "we (the Holy Cross Hall staff and residents) had known about this some months ago. People were talking about it for some time, and there were rumors going around," Sul­livan said. 
"The property belongs to the Holy Cross Fathers and they will use it for a semi-retirement home for priests in the order who have been educated here, who have served here in some capacity and who have been in­volved with the University," Sullivan said. 
"I think it's their property and they can do what they want with it, and that it is proper for them to make this decision," about 20 Honduran air force planes had bombed and strafed retreating Nicaraguans, who he said were pursued by three Honduran infantry battalions. 
Last weekend marked the second time this year that President Jose Hoyo asked President Reagan for military help to fend off purported Nicaraguan incursions along the border, where U.S.-backed Contra rebels maintain base camps in their fight against the Sandinista government. 
Sullivan said. 
Neither Carroll's nor Holy Cross's rector had been in­formed of position reassign­ments, they said Monday. 
"I don't expect them to (make reassignments) soon because whether or not I con­tinue as a rector or assistant rector depends on what the availability of these positions will be," Father Patrick Sul­livan said. 
"This information is not sup­plied to the Office of Student Affairs until late January or February" of the year the po­sition becomes effective, he said. 
Gorski would not comment on any future plans. 
In addition to the letters sent to Howard Hall residents, the Office of Student Housing sent letters to all females on campus and in foreign study programs, excluding current seniors, extending to them the opportunity to transfer to Howard Hall if they wish to, Reinebold said. 
"There will be a certain num­ber of spaces open for each class-sophomores, juniors and seniors -and if the response we receive is greater than the spaces available, we will hold a lottery for these requests as well," Reinebold said. 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor Marilyn Benchik con­tributed to this story. 





\fie\Y~_O_i_n_t___________~_esda~y,Dec-embe-r9,1oo~s-pa~ges 
I will be graduating next year. What along with the others who are being af­the future will hold remains unclear. I fected by such a quickly implemented 
am not thrilled about the possibilities decision. My rememberances of Notre of life anywhere else other than Dame will always be associated with Howard. We all hear of the dreaded pos­Howard Hall. And they will be fond ones sibility of "separation from the Notre that I will cherish deeply. I cannot help 
Howard Hall decision 
leaves residents .out 
Dame community." Well, it happened. that. I will also remember the Admin­It is inconceivable that I could live istration and the Board of Trustees. The letter started off innocently And besides, there is the question of anywhere else on campus. Ergo, I must But, those memories will not be fond 
enough. hall loyalty and identity, which are dis­leave the comfortable confines of the ones. And I cannot help that either. "Dear Howard Hall Resident: ... carded like yesterday's trash. So much Notre Dame campus if I want to be with It was polite, terse, and loaded with for the idea of building "an atmosphere my friends. Bill Herzog is a junior resident of 
official, generic verbiage that is sym­of friendly community living." But, I will make do with the situation, Howard Hall. bolic of such critical decisions handed Then there is the problem of being down from the University's Board of an RA. What will happen to all of the Trustees. students who wanted a chance to give 
Then came the kicker: "Howard Hall something back to the hall, after three 
P.O.BoxQ
will become a hall for undergraduate years of hard work? The Administra­women in the fall of 1987." tion seems to shrug its shoulders and I have no home. says, "Too bad." Why is this being done? To help the Keenan Revue comes at a dull and
Bill Herzog 
University in its mission to admit more Cast of production dreary time during the South Bend win­women, thus helping to assuage the dis­ter months when the campus seems to guest column sension that "there are not enough wo­deserves accolades be at a social low. The Revue provides men at Notre Dame." a three and a half hour glimpse of that My other fellow Howard Hall resi­Was any mention given to us that Dear Editor: side of NDSMC life which can't help dents have no home. Neither, as the such a proposal would directly involve Bravo again to Mark Pilkinton and but make us laugh. And the best part? letter stated, do the occupants of Holy Howard Hall's changing sexes? the entire cast of the production of C.P. -Tickets to the show are free of charge. Cross and Carroll Halls. But there is a None. Taylor's "Good." Very special ac­On numerous occasions, I have been big difference in the University's han­I too found "the ratio" a little unnerv­colades to Michael Grant who rendered asked why Keenan doesn't sell the tick­dling of their changes and Howard's. ing, especially when Grace or Flanner a phenomenal performance by portray­ets, citing the Keenan Revue's value to We were only given a semester's had an SYR on the same night as ing Professor John Halder, the "good its fans as an excellent opportunity to notice. And for those of us in Howard Howard. But if I knew that bringing man." The only tragedy of the produc­raise money. In reply, I try to explain who are going abroad, like myself, we more women to Notre Dame would in­tion is the fact that so few ND students that it's this value, this special inherent have to realize that we only have two volve the loss of my home, I think I experienced it! It did indeed offer the quality, that reminds us in Keenan that weeks left in Howard. could be quite content with the status powerful challenge to all in academia the Revue is our gift to the NDSMC 
Here I am duly informed by the quo. who could all too easily slip and begin community. For this reason, we will powers that be in the Administration And what of the Rector of Howard to walk between the raindrops and'in never place our price on the tickets. that I have two weeks to decide where Hall, Father Gene Gorski? He will have and out of the shadows. It was theatre But somehow, expenses always seem I am going to live when I come back a home with the Priests of the Holy at its best. to become a major issue, and so to over­from London. Cross, but someone who willingly ac­come this problem, the Keenan Revue 
The two options for resolving this cepts the role of being a Rector at Notre C.M. Madison sponsors various fund-raising ventures "disruptive and disappointing" deci­Dame must, in some way, like dealing Graduate Student and seeks out donations sufficent sion are simple: with students. Gorski is such a person, enough to ensure that another Keenan 
1) submit to a lottery, by class, to therefore, it is his loss too. His pride in Revue will indeed succeed the last. 
Keenan Revue needs 
place Howard residents in other halls the students' personal, spiritual, social, Much of the show's support is due to "based upon request and availability;" and athletic growth at Howard was, and much student support generous donations, such as the $1 off 
2) move off-campus. is, quite evident. coupon for Domino's Pizza on the back Both alternatives are unappealing. Yes, it is a time of change. We have Dear Editor: of our raffle tickets, which was donated Whatever happened to all this talk of been given a new University president, The dream is always the same: by Roger Wisecup, manager of the the Notre Dame family? Do your par­Emil is resigning, and Howard, Carroll "It's the end of January and the tem­nearby Domino's. And of course, an ents normally give you two weeks and Holy Cross Halls will cease to exist perature outside is below freezing. With equally large part of support for the notice before throwing you out of the as we currently envisage them. the exception of going to classes, out­Keenan Revue is given by the NDSMC house? This years seniors are lucky. They door activity is kept at a minimum. community, who continually patronize No. will remember the old Howard and will Throughout these winter doldrums, it each of the Revue's fund-raising ef­
Such actions befit an irate landlord not have to deal with the prospect of seems as though there's really not forts, such as the current Keenan who wants to evict tenants because they being asked by a woman to an SYR at much to do except study, something Revue Raffle. have failed to pay the rent. Well, I have Howard. The freshmen still have a which the guys in Keenan Hall have not As long as the show continues to not been deficient in my payments to chance to move to another dorm and been doing much of since the start of receive such support, we will undoubt­
the University for my short three year salvage the three remaining years they the second semester. These guys have stay here at Notre Dame. And neither have left under the Golden Dome. The virtually been working around the clock have my other hallmates, or the resi­sophomores are in a jam with the to put together the Keenan Revue, a dents of Holy Cross and Carroll. juniors. They have been in the hall long phenomenally outstanding show by 
Okay, so I move to another hall. What enough to have made friends and they which almost 4,000 people will be about all of the friends that I have made are unhappy about the change. But if thoroughly entertained." in my three years at Howard? Suddenly they made that many friends in two By far, not really a dream, the above next year I become a Freshman all over years time, then they can at least make scenario is a scene recurring annually again with new people to meet and a that many more in another two years at Notre Dame; this year's show will 
different living situation to cope with. time. occur 
Doonesbury 
LOTS OF STUFF! fOR ONE 7HIN6 TfiE HEE, HEEl ZONKER., NO OFFENSE,
MIKt, THIS IS Bt61NNING WHYl WHITE HOlJSI3 a/ASCAUGifT 5&UING 8IfTWHitT11/fl?/3 YOlJONP/Hti-J YaJ
TO GETUNHEAIJHY, MAN. WHAT 
AM15 TO IRAN TO GET HOSTJI6ES HfARP 7HATON&Z ~IU/7HOUTYO/J'VE 8WJ CM1PIN6WT HAVE:I 
L£A5W, AN{) THEN IJ51NG mr:>'I<JIn• ,., THE MOST!NAN&, PRE1'057l31?­~ YfJJlrl/55 7HE /WU../.IJOOJ)? W RJN/? THt u.mfiiV17· ~ HlAflP! 
f HE!?E~AMIJNTHl/XJN'T 
in much the same way. The 
Garry Trudeau 
NtxTT!Mc,
YOI.J~ RJGHT. 

6UY,Jl5T
I MUST HAVe 

P/RJTCIT
GOTTI3NIT fl(1AIN.IIJRIJN6 ... 
I 
I 
General Board 

Ihe Observer 
Editor-in-Chief ........................................ Joe Murphy 
P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-5303 Managing Editor .................................. Kevin Becker News Editor .............................................. Tripp Baltz 
The Observer Is the Independent newspaper published by the students of the Univer­Viewpoint Editor ................................... Scott Bearby sity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the Sports Editor ................................... Dennis Corrigan policies of the administration of either Institution. The news Is reported as accurately Accent Editor ........................................Mary Jacoby and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of Saint Mary's Editor ...........................Margie Kersten the Editorial Board. Commentaries, letters and the Inside Column present the views of News Editor ..................................... Mark Pankowski their authors. Column space Is available to all members of the community and the free expression of varying opinions on campus, through letters, Is encouraged. · 
edly see the presentation of the 1007 11th 
Annual Keenan Revue. ,
To those of you who have already shown your willingness to help us out, especially with the Keenan Revue Raffle, we thank you for your support. 
David T. Marcantuono Business Manager l987 Keenan Revue 
Quote of the day 

"The most human thing we have to do in life is to learn to speak our honest convictions and feel­ings and live with the con­sequences. This is the first re­quirement of love." 
Father William DuBay Quoted in Leo Buscaglia's "Love, 

Production Manager ............................. Chris Bowler Photography Editor ............................. James Carroll Advertising Design Manager ... Mary Carol Creadon Advertsing Manager ..................... Anne M. Culligan OCN Manager .............................. Francis X. Malone Business Manager ...................... Eric Scheuermann Systems Manager .............................. Shawn Sexton Controller ........................................ Aiex VonderHaar Graphic Arts Manager ...................... Mark Weimholt 
Founded November 3, 1966 
~~-~-----­



Accent 
Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 6 


Okay. Big deal, you say. Minor 
MIKERESTLE 

details that can be eliminated by 
features writer just being careful. I agree. I'm f only playing the devil's advocate 
All right. folks, let's settle to try to restore a little reality to down. Take a cold shower and the CD's "perfect" Image. And relax. Get a hold of yourselves. yes, there's more. I know that CD fever has gripped the nation and you've got to have The big hype over the CD's a new compact disc player or die, ultra-clear, "seventh row, center" but I think It's time to sit back sound Is misleading. Sure, the and look at the situation more CD sounds great with something carefully. It's time to stop these that was digitally recorded In Illusions of grandeur and take a 1984. But It Is not a miracle cold, hard look at what the CD worker. It can't magically trans­can and cannot do. form a rough 1950's single into 
First off, CDs are not Indestruc­the same quality. It can't even do tible. I don't know what you've it with recqrdings from the 70s heard, but you cannot step on or anything else that wasn't them or throw them like frisbees. originally recorded In digital They're only thin plastic, for stereo. This means that your fa­God's sakel vorite album from 1978 is going 
Secondly, they do scratch, al­to play on CD with a hiss in the beit not as easily as do records. background not unlike that on And If the disc Is scratched too cassette. Although this hiss be­much, the player won't just skip comes Inaudible as the music over that part like a turntable gets louder, it can be distracting stylus would. Rather, It will r~ect during quieter passages. the entire disc and refuse to play Even the pure digital record­and encodes It on the disc In a a CD player spins the disc at mechanism Is usually able to It any further. This problem can Ings have musical limitations. series of 1's and O's, The laser around 500 RPM. That's pretty take care of the problem and be avoided, however, simply by Marty Werling, manager at Clas· In the player "reads" these digits fast." continue to provide un­treating your discs as you would sic Stereo In the University Com­and releases the Individual com­Reuter has been a DJ at SYRs blemished sound. (But, remem­a normal record album. mons In South Bend, elaborated ponents of the music simultane­here and local bars at home for ber, a disc that Is scratched too 
Do discs warp? You bet. That's on this topic. ously to produce that famous, the past two years, using his own deeply will not play at all.) A disc why most are packaged In those "The digital recording process "crystal clear'' sound. But In equipment and his collection of handled carefully will sound ex­hard plastic jewel boxes. Beware Is such that It Is somewhat lim· music that relies heavily on sub­over 120 CDs. Although he was actly the same In twenty years as ofcompanies that try to cut costs lted In the range of sounds that titles, blend, and ambience, this always In the business only for It did brand new. by putting their discs In It can reproduce. The CD cannot "breakdown approach" can ruin the fun of it. never really market­And there's no question that cardboard sleeves. A warped disc reproduce the 2nd, 3rd, and the effect. Many audiophiles Ing himself as a DJ, he did dis­the CD Is more convenient than won't play, either. higher harmonics as accurately have spoken out strongly against cover that using CDs to DJ Is a vinyl record. The ability to pro­
Also, It Is possible to make the as can conventional analog the musical superiority of the "really not a good Investment at gram It gives unprecedented player's laser skip. Depending on recording. . . In classical and compcact disc. They feel that the all." True, It Is extremely con­flexibility In song selection. No the quality ofthe suspension sys­other more complex music, vinyl record more accurately venient but because It Is more waiting for rewind or fast tem, a CD player will skip just as these higher harmonics are very portrays the rhythm, tone, and Impossible to control the speed forward, or playing "guess and easily as a record player, If you Important. But In pop or rock emotion of a piece. of a disc player, the technique of drop" with the stylus. You can happen to bump the machine or music. however, these levels are For example, ambience Is beat mixing (keeping a consis­even program the player to skip even walk heavily In the room. rare, so It really doesn't matter silence. On a conventional tent tempo going at song transi­over that stinking fourth song be­Only thing Is, the laser doesn't much." record, the music fades slowly tions) Is also Impossible. Also, cause you hate It so much. screech across the disc like a and gradually drops off as the adds Reuter, "Dance music Is so record stylus does. Instead, It This Inability to accurately ambience continues, keeping trendy now, Itjust doesn't pay to So there you have It • compact 
jumps to another track on the reproduce these higher musical the "feeling" Intact. On CD, en· buy a whole disc for just one disc In perspective. It's nice to disc. What you hear Is music • levels Is what makes some music glneers have managed to mess song that'll be gone In 3 to 4 know the facts, before you go dead silence • music. Better pray on CD sound very metallic and around with the 1 's and O's to weeks. And a lot of the popular spending 300 bucks on one. This the laser doesn't come down on shrill. The digital recording get the music to fade out. but old stuff Isn't even out on CD article Is not meant to discourage that piercing trumpet solo, or process separates each element there Is no way to digitally yet." anyone from buying a CD player. your speakers will pay dearly. of the music. every Instrument. "create" silence. Consequently, But enough of the criticism. As In any responsible decision, 
the music fades, and abruptly There are, as we all know, many you have to weigh the good drops off, leaving nothing. Any benefits of the CD over the LP. against the bad. ambience that existed previously The m~or advantage of the "Ifyou're Into new music," says Is lost. compact disc Is Its durability. Reuter, "there's no other way to 
Another drawback to CD Says Werling, "A turntable won't go but CD. But If you like a lot players, says Werling, Is repair take as good care of your of older music or music that Is costs. "When you need a new software." From the minute the not popular with the masses, needle for your turntable, you needle hits the surface of the then you've got to have a good just pop the cartridge out and go record, there Is friction. As the turntable." Because of high pro­buy a new one. But If the laser grooves In the record "pull" the duction costs, some older music on a CD player breaks, or you stylus toward the center, the just Isn't available on CD. Record knock It out of alignment. you needle becomes pretty hot. companies are struggling even have to bring the whole machine When the hot needle hits even a now to keep up with demand for ln." And repairing a disc player small speck of dirt or dust. It the new releases. It'll be a while costs a lot more than fixing a literally burns It into the groove, before they are able to transfer turntable, because the technol­creating the all too familiar their older titles to CD. Before ogy Is so much more complex. "clicks" and "pops." Even If you you buy a disc player, It might 
Junior Rick Reuter, a resident spend a lot of time and effort be a good Idea to check out the of Sorln Hall, agrees with him. waxing and cleaning your record stores to see If they have "What I'm starting to hear Is records, you will succeed only in your favorite albums on CD, people who bought their player reducing the wear. They still "It's a tradeoff," says Werling. one and a half and two years ago won't sound the same twenty "You've got to really look at what having problems with the motor years later. you want from your music and falling...It makes sense, when A disc, on the other hand, then make a decision. Whatever 

JIUIIle~ObMrYV you think about lt. because a doesn't wear. It may scratch, but decision you do make will be a One of the Compact Disc players available atClassic Stereo. turntable spins at 33 11.5 RPM and the machine's error-correction compromise." 

---------~~ -------­
Business 
Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 7 

Adworks organization fills the campus information void 
By MARY BETH O'HARA 
Business Writer 
Perhaps the most glamorous jobs in America today involve the media. These fast-paced, lucrative jobs demand not only time, creativity and enthusi­asm, but also experience. This experience can -and often does -range from an internship to a McDonald's or Wendy's job. However, one fantastic oppor­tunity related to the media exists right here in our student community, that of the Ad­works organization. 
Adworks is an advertising agency begun by students one year ago, with offices in LaFor­tune Student Center. While producing posters and broc­hures, Adworks main emphasis lies in designing and producing ads for businesses and organizations to be used in media, such as in The Obser­ver. 
lst Morttate 15-yr. fiXed Rate 10.00% APR-l Point 10.25% APR-0 Points 

Each membet account lnauted to HXl0111
&NaJA 
11y AdmlnlltratOf, National Credit Union Admlnlatratlon 
"We started Adworks to fill the information gap between students and the Student Activ­ities Board, and to enhance stu­dent life through our advertising," said Kevin Chris­tenson, the organization's Chief Executive Officer. 
Although student-run, Ad­works strives to display profes­sionalism in every way. Its structure is similar to that of a corporation. With Christenson as CEO, Scott Morrison as Ex­ecutive Vice President, numerous account executives, managers, artists and dis­tributors, Adworks has a total of 60 employees. 
The executives are on salary, while the others are paid hour­ly. While the offices in LaFor­tune cannot hold all 60 employees, there is not a need for this. 
"The artists pick up their supplies and do their work at home." said Christenson. 
"Then the typesetters come in and do their part at night." 
The student distributors pick up the posters and other finished products and place them in the different campus buildings and dorms. While many of the Adworks employees may do their work all over campus, one person who is often in the LaFortune office is Christenson. 
Christenson has been with Adworks since its inception, beginning as an accountant. Growing up in an entrepreneurial family, he saw the great potential of an on­campus advertising agency. Realizing that he had become more than an accountant, the other employees elected him CEO last April. Although a senior in accounting, Christen­son handles most of the mar­keting aspects of Adworks. 
"Adworks has really ex­ploded since the spril'lg," he 

NOTRE DAME CREDIT UNION 
Separate from the University of Notre Dame 
Apply Now! 
239-6611 
said. "We sent out over 150 cover letters this summer to other campus organizations ex­plaining Adworks' superior quality and low cost. 
"That was really a success. We do ad design for the ACC, SAB, Theodore's and others for their ads in The Observer. We've also done party invita­tions for students, calendars for Theodore's, and brochures for WSND. We'll do anything that any advertising agency would do." 
Since April, the Adworks workforce has increased from 15 people to its present 60. In addition, sales to date this year have already surpassed last school year's total. 
"We've had a lot of growth,". said Christenson, "and for awhile our quality suffered. So right now we're working hard and concentrating on quality. 
"And we're able to keep our prices below major competi­tors because profits aren't really a major objective. We're starting to look into an $8,000 computer system. We're much more in control now." 
At present, most of the or­ganization's sales come from organizations on campus. In time, however, more off­campus will be involved and will help to increase sales. New ideas are constantly being analyzed. For example, Ad­works is considering branching into printing resumes for stu­dents. 
"We're always looking for good people to work here," said Christenson. We're a good bunch of people who work hard, but we find it interesting and a lot of fun. It's a really good feeling to see something like a poster or an ad that looks good and know that our organization did it." 

Tips on what's in with business dress 
Dressing is an important part of business, and here are some tips for men from Dun's Business Monthly. Dark suits, includingthe colors navy blue and gray, are in style and probably always will be. These suits should have subtle plaids and wide knees, and should be worn with a white shirt until the wearer achieves an important position within the company. Three-piece suits are definitely out. 
Brian Murray 
Business Bits 

But the suit is only the easy part of dressing. Accessories are just as important and could make or break a wardrobe. Suspenders are in fashion and are outselling belts twenty­to-one in New York City, according to Dun's. Patterned socks are now popular with even the most conservative executives. Pocket squares, which are small silk handker­chiefs, are a must for the well-dressed executive, but should not match the socks or suspenders perfectly. Yellow ties are out and deep, dusty pink ties are the new trend. Finally, to complete your wardrobe, buy black or brown Italian shoes with laces. These are the rules to follow when dressing for success. 
• 

According to the Pentagon, the Stealth fighter does not exist. Many people, though, know it exists and is very top secret. But the Testor Corporation, of Rockford, Ill., does not even give the Stealth fighter top-secret status. Acc?r­ding to the Wall Street Journal, the Testor Corporation introduced a twelve-inch plastic model of the Stealth fighter at a tradeshow two months ago. The model became an instant success. Federal investigators used the model to dramatize the leaks in Lockheed's Stealth program, which lent credibility and publicity to the model. 
The Testor Corporation kept its model so secret that few outsiders at the tradeshow realized what the company had achieved. If only our government and Lockheed were Tes­tor subsidiaries, the Russian spies might have to do actual work to earn their living . 
• 

Other items: Students from St. Louis will have someth­ing better to do over break than those at Notre Dame. St. Louis is the home of the Bowling Hall of Fame, which houses a collection of 350 bowling shirts and a 1936 Studebaker dressed up to look like a bowling pin. But if anyone wants to see the Bowling Hall of Fame, they had better hurry. With sometimes as few as ten visitors a day, the two-year-old organization may not last long . 
•

Finally, if you cannot afford a cellular phone and are jealous of those who can, you may find revenge. Many cellular phone conversations can be overheard with a cheap radio scanner, costing about $170. But you had better hurry. Next year, eavesdropping on cellular phone con­versations becomes a federal crime, carrying a $500 fine. 
! 
I ~ 
t 
The Observer 

Sports Briefs 
Chuck Freeby returns tonight for an extended version of "Speaking of Sports" on WFVI AM-640. The action begins at 9: 30 when host Rudy Brandl welcomes guest hosts Frank Mastro and Rick Rietbrock. Dennis Corrigan joins the hosting trio for a special feature, "Speaking of Food," a comic sidelight to the show. Freeby joins the excitement at 10 for an hour of stumpers on Trivia Night. Prizes will be awarded for correct answers called in to 239-6400. -The Observer 
WVFI AM-640 will provide live coverage of tonight's Notre Dame-Indiana women's basketball game. Rick Rietbrock and Brian Broderick will call the action from the ACC, and studio host Rudy Brandl will update scores and highlights throughout the evening. Coverage begins at 7 with the pre-game show, and tip off is set for 7:30. -The Observer 
The ND judo club participated in the Kalamazoo Judo Open Sunday. John Fox placed first in the men's middleweight-white-green division, and Kathy Brienza and Sara Harty took first and second, respectively, in the women's lightweight white-green division. -The Observer 
Notre Dame Air Force ROTC downed Purdue Navy ROTC, 65-55, to win the Flyin' Irish Basketball Tourna­ment this past weekend. Notre Dame Navy defeated Notre Dame Army, 49-41, to take third place. -The Observer 
The ND rowing club's men's varsity and novice teams will have practice tomorrow at 5 p.m. on the ACC con­course. -The Observer 
Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 8 

Wrestlers 
continuedfrom page 12 
Irish lost several leads in the closing minutes. 
"We lost too many matches in the third period. You have to look good all seven minutes," said McCann. "Boyd lost to a kid from New Mexico and looked bad in the third per­iod, then he wrestled a kid from Oklahoma State and looked great in the third." 
The Irish return home tomor­row for their second dual meet of the season against Wisconsin-Parkside at 7 p.m. in the ACC Pit. 

Garske 
continuedfrom page 12 
probable, pending a doctor's decision this afternoon. 

In the only other meeting be­tween Notre Dame a:nd Indiana in women's basketball, the Irish nipped the Hoosiers 63-61 in overtime at home in 1983. The Hoosiers have nine returners from last season's 17­11 team, including senior Karna Abran (16.8 points per game) and junior Cindy Bumgarner (16.7 ppg). Abran Ivan Lendl continued to dominate the men's tennis world with is second in career points for Thursday's 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 triumph over Boris Becker in the final women's basketball at Indiana. match of the Masters tournament in New York. Lendl added the 
Tonight's game will begin at Masters tournament victory to his recent string, which includes 7:30p.m. the French and U.S. Opens. 

The Observer Notre Dame office, located on the third floor of LaFortune Stu­
dent Center, accepts classified advertising from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The Observer Saint Mary's office, located on the third floor of Haggar Collge Center, accepts classifieds from 12:30 p.m. until3 p.m., Monday through Friday. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid, either in person or by mail. The charge is 10 cents per five
Classifieds characters per day. 
NOTICES 
PRO-TYPE Quality work, reasonable $. 
277-5833 
EXPERT TYPING SERVICE. CALL MRS. COKER, 233-7009. 
WORDPROCESSING 277-8131 
SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$$ PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca­tion: 808 Howard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­
530 
Dan still types papers! Only $.90j:>age. 233-1988 
LEE,S BAR-B-QUE is accepting applica­tions for kitchen and bar help. Hr. rate is $3.50 per hr Tel 232-9311 Ask for Jah Light. 
PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS PITTSBURGH CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS 
Signups at Lafortune Lobby Tuesday December 9-$60 roundtrip and $35 onaway (while they last) Any ques­tions call Red x1612 or Mike x3402 -Oh yeah, signups are at 7:00 p.m. 
LOST/FOUND 
LOST: ADD A BEAD NECK­LACE ... SOMEWHERE BETWEEN WALSH AND SO. DINING HALL OR IN DINING HALL. PLEASE CALL MAUREEN M. AT 2612. THANK YOU! 
HELPIII lost my eye-glasses on Nov. 26 just before break. If you found them please call me at 287-4831. They were in a black case and were an amber men's style. • 
PLEASE ......... PLEASE ........PLEASE TO WHOEVER TOOK MY GREY JANSPORT BACKPACK FROM SOUTH DINING HALL ON MONDAY NIGHT: you can keep the textbook. the calculator, and the UCLA T-shirts, but PLEASE return the mac. disk in the front pocket. it has my entire life on it. just leave it where you found it. PLEASE ... 
LOST: Canon Snappy 50 Camera at SMC Frosh. Form. Contents great sent. value. $$ 284-4196 $$ 
LOST: Long gray tweed London Fog OVERCOAT at Morris Park Country Club during Holy Cross formal. Important keys in pocket. Call Frank lzzo at £4194. 
LOST: a GUCCI KEY RING with keys numbered 243. If found please call x3736. Please return. 
LOST: THICK GOLD BANGLE BRACELET WITH ENGRAVED DESIGN. POSSIBLY LOST AT BRIDGET'S OR MORRISSEY. IF FOUND PLEASE CALL 284-4351. 
LOST; WED. NIGHT,1V4, AT BRIDGETS, A LARGE BLACK SCARF WWHITE FLECKS. PLEASE CALL MEGAN 1242 TO RETURN IT AND I WILL LOVE YOU FOREVER. 

FOUND: Walkman in O'Shag Computer Lab before Turkey break.To claim, call 233-2235. 
FOUND: CAMERA ON VENDING MAC­HINES IN NIEUWLAND SCIENCE. CALL NIKKI IN CHEMISTRY DEPT. 239­7058. 
LOST: Two sets of Arena b·ball tix, sec­tion 4, row 4. seats 8 and 9 ... They weren't even mine!! Please save my Christmas. my friendships, my wallet . . If found call Linda x4355111!1 
HELP! I LOST MY BASKETBALL TICK­ETS (SECTION 106, ROW 7, SEAT 6) AT OR ON CAMPUS AFTER THE BYU GAME. IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL SUSAN AT 3435. 
WOULD WHOEVER ACCIDENTLY TOOK MY BLUE, CANVAS, JANSEN BOOKBAG ·FROM NORTH DINING HALL PLEASE RETURN IT OR I WILL FAIL MY FINALS.CALL X3484 
................ 

Keys on an NO keyring left in Observer office. See Shirley to claim. 
'--F_O_R_RE_NT______.I 
APARTMENT FOR RENT FROM DECEMBER TO FIRST OF MARCH. CALL 1-982-6483 FOR DETAILS. ASK FOR CHAD. 
FURNISHED HOUSES FOR NEXT 
SCHOOL YEAR 6838889 
.............................................................. 
WANTED 
PREGNANT? Or know someone who is? Warm, well-educated, happy couple, married 11 years, unable to have children of our own. want to share our loving home with a baby. Confidentiality assured: medical expenses paid. Call 317-257­3669. 
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED CALL 259-8822 OR 259­3187. 
WANTED: VHS tape of NO-USC game. Will pay $20. Call Andy at 283-1972. 
2 DUDES NEED RIDES TO THE TWIN CITIES WOULD LIKE TO LEAVE THURS NITE CALL GREG X4334 
I need ride to D.C. area for break Pat 3004 
WE NEED 2 RIDES TO NYC FOR XMAS. CALL BOB X 2354 OR DAN X 2329. 
Need ride No. NJ for Xmas Janet 284­4346 
FOR SALE 
FUTONS: 100% ootton sleep mattresses, hardwood convertible frames and acces­sories. FUTONS NATURALLY 232 South Michigan St. 233-8176. 
2 And. trip tix SB to Orlando Dec. 20-Dec. 29. $550. 288-5535. 
Ills It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142 Ex­t.7316. 
...................... FOR SALE: CABER SKI BOOTS(71!.l) CALL PAT 1581 
COMPUTER, MAC 128, printer, Access. Chris 289-3499 
TICKETS 
Need GAs for N. Carolina and Duke. Call Bill,2008 
I need 2 GA's for N. Carolina. Call Mar­garet X1293 
I NEED 2 SETS OF 2 GA'S FOR THURSDAYS E. MICH-ND GAME!!I CALL KEVIN AT 4006 OR 4277. THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT. 
I 

PERSONALS
L-----------...J 
OAR HOUSE: COLD BEER 8o LIQUOR, CARRY OUT TO 3 A.M. U.S. 31 N., ONE BLOCK SOUTH OF HOLIDAY INN. 
................. SELL YOUR TEXT-BOOKS FOR $$$$1!1 PANDORA'S BOOKS, at our NEW loca­tion: 808 Hov;ard St. just off of N.D. Ave. ph. 233-2342 OPEN 7 days a week, 10­530 
Available 2nd semester & fall '87 4Br house furnished. secure 4-5 stu­dents.$440.0o-tnonth You pay utilities, call Geoff or Mary 288-7276 
TWO RIDERS GOING EAST ALONG 1­90 FROM CLEVELAND TO BUFFALO AGAIN. IF YOU CAN BRING US ALONG PLEASE CALL KEVIN X2590. CAN LEAVE ANYTIME AFTER 4 PM FRIDAY AND MONEY NO PROBLEM. 
RIDER NEEDED TO SHARE EXP. TO DENVER. COLO. LEAVING DEC. 19TH RETURN JAN. 3RD. PHONE 683-7837 
D.C. CLUB BUS SIGNUPS 
Wednesday Dec. 10 from 6-7 P.M. L~lortune Lobby $75 Roundtrip For questions call Mike at 3380 
PART TIME GRAPHIC ARTIST WANTED. CALL 259-8822 OR 259­3187. 
···················· YELLOW SUBMARINE PRE-FINAL SPECIAL: Buy 2 sandwiches and get 1 free. Delivery till midnight, Fri-Sattill1 am. 
SOPHOMORE SKI TRIP Sign up ASAP for the premiere social event of the semester' Deadline for sign ups is Friday, December 12. Call 239­5225 or oome to Soph. class office,2nd floor LaFortune,hours:1-5,M-F. 
.............................. ATIENTION ATTENTION ATTENTION BCAF TALENT SHOW IS COMING GET THOSE ACTS READY TO GO!II TRYOUTS IN WASHINGTON HALL JAN-16.17 8-10 PM. CONTACT CARLA 
OR MONIQUE AT 283-2706 GET READY!! II! 
GOING EAST for X-mas & need a ride to CT (New Canaan area)? I'm leaving Dec. 16 alter lOam or early am Dec 17­call Carrie at SMC4288 ASAP 
SHAKESPEARE CLUB MEMBERS! WE'RE HAVING A XMAS PARTY-WED., DEC 10. SEE CONNIE IN THE EN­GLISH OFFICE FOR MORE DETAILS! 
THANK YOU ST. JUDE 

PHILADELPHIA CLUB CHRISTMAS BUS SIGNUPS Tues. Dec.9, 7-8pm in basement Lafortune. Roundtrip $80, bring cash or check to signups. 
Tom Barnhorst-You're a fox! Love, Your Austrian Admirer 
SENIORS'!! 

SENIOR CLASS COCKTAIL 
PARTY Tuesday, December 9 from 9pm to 1 am, with FREE BEVERAGES from 9·11pml Semi-formal attire,please. $4.00 admis­sion. Featuring D.J., CHAMPAGNE FOUNTAIN, HORS D'OEUVRES, and, of course SANTA CLAUSIII (mistletoe, too!) 
SENIOR CLASS MASS 
Saturday, December 13 
with "MONK" MALLOY celebrating. Sorin 
Hall Chapel. Time t.b.a. After mass, stay 
and meet the new University President­
elect over eggnog and cookies 
Do Communism and Christianity mix? Come find out at the last meeting of the Little Stevie Worland fan club. Friday Dec. 12 at 3:25p.m. Workers (and Wor­land fans) of the world unite! 
JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS Ski Trip sign-ups through Wednesday 2:30-5, 6-9 in class office Boyne Moun­tain February 27-March 1 $125 includes lifts, transportation. lodging, breakfast Sal. & Sun.,dinner Sat. $40 deposit re­quired at sign-up JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS 
JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS Retreat with Fr. Steele sign-ups through Wednesday in class office 2:30-5,6-9 at Crowe's House January 16 & 17 $5 to be paid at sign-up JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS 
JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS 2nd Annual Grinch Party Tuesday, Dec. 9 at Theodore's 8-11 come watch the Grinch and share some Christmas cheer remember the fun from last year JUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORSJUNIORS 
ALL YE NORFOLK GIVERS OF 
ALUMNI, HARKI 
How dare you argue with me about going I 
(I'm so glad you did.) By the way, the 
name of the tree is MF. (Obviously one 
of those letter games that English majors 
always use.) 

The cheese slider was good, too. And 
you even ate with 
my father, AND MADE HIM SMILE. A 
godlier man never walked 
the halls of Alumni. 
Yours, 
Mario to all who put up with me during the last 

two months THANK YOU. You helped me so much. Gert 
BERNADETTE AND LEE ANN: GOD BLESS YOU FOR THE DOZEN REDS THAT HIT MY DOORSTEP ON SATURDAY. As if I deserve ill You guys are wonderful! Love you. 
Gert 
WANTED: FEMALE MUDWRESTLER FOR A CLEAN FIGHT CALL 234-8007 THE SPECK 
Hey BABE, it's hip to be square!Guess who!? 
YO GUIDO DUDE:MERRY CHRISTMAS!! 
WISH BEN FRANCIS A HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY TODAY!! (no. honestly, he really is 21) 
BRUCE G. £15 DO U HAVE A HTH? IF NOT I'LL TELL U MY NAME 
REPLY HERE SOON 

DEAR FR. TED, MY S.Y.R. DATE RANKS ME BEHIND 
GOD, BOWIE, BONO, AND YOUNG, BUT BEFORE EVERYONE ELSE. AM I IN POSITION TO RALLY? PLEASE RESPOND. NIKON RAY 
MERRY XMAS TO: roomies Kristen and Beverly,Nena.Mary,Caroi,Craig, Pat,Beth,John,Mark(et.al. ol lunch group),Kevin,Steve(my li'l bro), Dar­ren,the men of Pangborn and a certain Goat that I love very much. Love y'aii!­Paula. 
Thank you so much St. Jude. 
Merry Christmas to Shiela McDaniel! ·························· Merry Christmas to Gertie Wimmer, our Miss Indiana! 
Merry Christmas to Julie Sennett! 
Merry Christmas to Kevin Keirn! 
Merry Christmas to Eric Zagrockil 
Cheap Urinals for Sale! I Cheap Urinals for Salel! Contact any Howard Refugee 
Beware future Howard CHICKS The Howard Liberation Organization Is Now Active If we can't live here no one can II 
H.L.O. unite and light lor the lost homeland 
GILA CHRISTMAS CARDS ARE BACK !Ill 
GILA CHRISTMAS CARDS ARE BACK !!I 
.......................... 

GILA CHRISTMAS CARDS ARE BACK !II 6 FOR $1 (WHAT A DEAL!II) 4 DIFFERENT DESIGNS To benefit the Community for the Inter­
national Lay Apostalate Contact Margy £1315, 315 BP Dan £1387, 608 Flanner Kris £1364. 431 BP MERRY CHRISTMAS!!!! 
Gaye, the lady in the Saint Mary's dining hall Cheer up! You're wonderful. and always have been. Merry Chris1mas!!! SMC OBSERVER STAFF 
Terry, you are a dancing machine! Love, Jose. P.S:Don't worry Tucker. she's "all yours." 
I need a ride to CONNECTICUT! Preferably Fairfield County or Westchester. N.Y. area. Can leave FRI. CALL TOM X1945 
TO:"A FRIEND" THANX ... FOR WHAT? SUSAN L 
Long live the OAK. Forever immortal. 
HEY, PANGBORN HOCKEY TEAM: The puck never went in to the net. This was rightly called by the official in position who never did, or does. live in Alumni. The game was fairly called. SORRY GUYSI 
HEY JOHN SCHLOEGEL: I'm sorry you got problems, but no one wants to read your gripes in the paper! You still got 3 112 years to go somewhere else. Contemplate this fact over Christmas break! 
..\iiv..\N···;,v;:;A:r?··;;fio-To-TY'Pii···;;6ii 
NAZI PROPOGANDA POSTERS? Charles Lobdell ill, you have a wierd way of saying I sufficed. Thanks for showing up, babe. Love you. Gert 
THE ULTIMATE NOEL: MERRY CHRISTMAS! 
KIMMERY: MERRY. MERRY CHRISTMAS! 
························"·"''""'''''······················· 
HELP' Need ride to and from D.C. area for break can leave as early as 7pm Wed.17 Please call Karen 284-4011 
Going to MPLS Dec. 18 or 19? I need ride! Will pay expenses LeeAnn 284­5439. 
Kath O'Connor-Good Luck with frie~d~ and have an awesone Christmas Break! Don't you wish you could be down here with me in the sun? Love Ya, SUZ 
···················· 
QUACK QUACK QUACK QUACK QUACK JACK (or should I say Em?) you know I love the way you, love the way you, you, you... whatever. You knew argyle ducks came from geese mom and duck dad, didn't you? Shmoo. 

The Observer 
Tuesday, December 9, 1986 -page 9 

Tollner to be dismissed as head coach at USC 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-Ted Tollner has been dismissed as the head football coach at the University of Southern California, effec­tive next month, the univer­sity's president announced at a news conference Monday. 
In Tollner's four years as head coach, the Trojans had a 26-19-1 record with one Pacific­tO Conference championship and three appearances in post­season bowl games, including the 1985 Rose Bowl. 
The Trojans finished the 1986 season at 7-4 and will play Auburn in the Florida Citrus Bowl on New Year's Day. Southern Cal was ranked lOth in the nation before losing its final two games, 45-25 to UCLA on Nov. 22 and 38-37 to Notre Dame a week later. 
Tollner's four-year record was 1-7 against Notre Dame and UCLA, the school's two big­gest rivals. 
"This press conference has been called to announce my decision to relieve Ted Tollner as head football coach of USC effective Jan. 2, 1987, after the Florida Citrus Bowl," Southern Cal President James Zumberge said in a statement. 
''The university will honor its financial obligations to Coach Tollner for the next two years under the terms of his contract. We will also retain all members of his coaching staff on the payroll until their contracts ex­pire on June 30, 1987." 
There was no immediate an­nouncement as to when a suc­cessor for the 46-year-old Toll­ner will be named. 
After going 4-6-1 during his first season, Tollner led the Trojans to a Pac-10 Conference championship in 1984 and a 20­17 victory over Ohio State in the Rose Bowl. Tollner was named the 1984 Pac-10 Coach of the Year. 
After the 1985 Rose Bowl, Tollner was given an upgraded 
four-year  contract,  running  
through  the  1988  football  
season.  


The Observer /Mike Moran 

Too many Notre Dame victory celebrations, ball coach Ted Tollner his job. Tollner managedsuch as this one between Milt Jackson (6) and 
to get the Trojans into the Citrus Bowl this year,Andy Heck (88), may have cost USC head foot-he was never able to beat the Irish. 
UNLV takes top spot in AP poll 
Associated Press 
Nevada-Las Vegas took over the No. 1 spot in The Associated Press college basketball poll Monday as previously top­ranked North Carolina fell to fifth, behind three teams from the Big Ten. 
The Runnin' Rebels, 5-0, moved up from last week's No. 2 ranking with 39 first-place votes and 1,236 points from the nationwide panel of sportswriters and broadcasters. UNLV's only game last week was an 80-77 victory at Memphis State. 
The last time Nevada-Las Vegas held the No. 1 ranking was in February 1983. However, that lasted just one week as the Runnin' Rebels, then 24-0, lost road games at Fullerton State and West Vir­ginia. 
Nevada-Las Vegas' next game will be Saturday at Nevada-Reno. 
Indiana is second with 14 first-place votes and 1,144 points, followed by Purdue, seven first-place votes and 1,126 points, and Iowa, which had 1,029 points. 
Indiana, 3-0, beat Notre Dame and then-No. 13 Ken­tucky last week, while Purdue, 3-0, registered victories over Il­linois State and Connecticut. Iowa beat Missouri-St. Louis before winning the Amana­Hawkeye Classic, which it hosts. 
North Carolina, 4-1, fell from the top spot it held in the preseason and first regular­season poll as it won two of three games last week. The Tar Heels, who had one first-place vote and 1,012 points, lost 89-84 at UCLA before posting home victories over Stetson, 100-64, and Miami, Fla., 122-77. 
Illinois, the fourth Big Ten team in the top six, jumped from last week's No. 9 ranking with a 99-97 road victory over then-No. 12 Pittsburgh. The Fighting Illini, 4-0, had one 
,\)e'· -·. Erasmus Boob 
~(\·'iUill?

'"'\) bj r 1027 E. Wayne 
oO(\\O ~ Tun-Sun, noon • 6 (\ ..~ -1 block .outh olMfenon & Eddy 
232~ u...IA ..........ltoob.._..t, ...._.... 

WEEKEND SKI~ 
Schuss Mountain ~ January 23·25 
COST: $100 
Includes skiing Friday night, Saturday, Saturday night, Sunda~ Includes SKIING Friday night, Saturday, Saturday night, Sunda~ LODGING Fri &Sat nights MEALS Sat-breakfast & dinner, Sun.-breakfast PLUS: Entertainment Fri night 
Sign-ups: deadline Fri., Dec. 12 at Class Office or call 239-5225 
first-place vote and 857 points. 
Rounding out the Top Ten were Auburn, which also received one first-place vote and 779 points; Western Ken­tucky, 663 points; Oklahoma, 627 points; and Navy, 547 points. 
Western Kentucky, 6-1, and Oklahoma, 3-1, improved from 14th and 11th, respectively. Both schools' only loss was to Nevada-Las Vegas in the preseason National Invitation Tournament. 
Leading off the Second Ten is UCLA, 3-0, which received 
one  first-place  vote  and  517  
points.  
Following  UCLA  in  the  

Second Ten were Syracuse, Georgetown, Kansas, North Carolina State, Georgia Tech, Pittsburgh, Alabama, Ken­tucky and Arkansas. 
Syracuse jumped from last week's No. 17 ranking after winning its own Carrier Classic with a 94-74 victory over then­No. 19 Northeastern in the championship game. 
Northeastern and Arizona, which had been ranked 20th, were the only teams to fall from the ranks of the ranked. Arizona was beaten by utah 68­67. 
Anti-Violence Activist 

Cenler lor Teach•ng Non·V•olenco & NCTV full·l•me s1all. Lodg1ng & $400/mo. Research on aggress1on, publishing & lobbying agamsl VIOlence m TV, ftlm, war loys, spans. erol•ca, etc. Non·v&olent hlms. Next to U IllinoiS. Sludentloans deferable. 211·384·1920. 
P.O. Box 2157, Champa~gn IL 61820 
NEED GIFT IDEAS 
HE SN!Ti; ~USEUM SHOP 
HAS THE ANSWER 
Engagement Calendars 
Pottery T-Shirts Christmas cards 

Open Mon.-Sat. 10:00-4:00 Sun. 1 :00-4:00 
Ditka considers Bears' new quarterback shuffle 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. ­Chicago Bears Coach Mike Ditka said Monday he prob­ably won't pick his No. 1 quarterback for the playoffs until the week before the first post-season game. 
"Why couldn't we wait?" Ditka asked reporters at a news conference at the Bears' practice site. "Do we have a John Unitas on this 
team?"  
Quarterbacks  Mike  
Tomczak and  Doug  Flutie  
each threw for  one  touch­ 

down and ran for another in Chicago's 48-14 rout of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on a rainy Sunday at Soldier Field. Even veteran quar­terback Steve Fuller saw some late action. 
"Right now we're going with a guy who started off (the season) as the third quarterback. We're going with a guy who hasn't even been here, and we're going with a guy who was our backup quarterback two years," Ditka said. 
With Jim McMahon out un­til next season with a shoulder injury and Unitas retired for several years, Ditka said Tomczak would continue to share the quar­terbacking in the final two regular-season games, at Detroit and Dallas. 
Tomczak is a second-year NFL player, while Flutie, a pickup from the United States Football League, joined the club just a few weeks ago. 
Ditka didn't rule out the possibility that he might go with two quarterbacks, al­ternating each series, in the playoffs, but admitted it was a long shot. 
The defending Super Bowl champion Bears, 12-2, are only one win away from clinching the home-field ad­vantage for their first playoff contest. 
One thing Ditka has decided is to take the team from the chilly Chicago area to the warmer climate of Suwanee, Ga., to practice at the Atlanta Falcons' train­ing facilities a few days before the first playoff game. The Bears practiced at the Falcons' camp twice during last season's playoffs. 
Ditka and Flutie, who also appeared at the news confer­ence, said they don't believe 
the competition at quarter­back will cause any bitter­ness on the squad. 
"The competition is going to make us a better team," said Flutie. 

The Observer News Department is accepting applications for the paid positions of: 
Day Editors 
Those interested may come to or call The Observer offices on the third floor of LaFortune or call Lynne Strand at 283-3861 or Kim Yuratovac at 272-9361. 
The Observer 
Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 10 

Smaller rowing club does well in Philadelphia meet 
This year's novice program of the Rowing Club does not have the size it had in recent years, but what it lacks in quantity, it makes up for in quality. 
After a dual regatta against Michigan earlier in the year, the novice rowers went to Toledo for another regatta in late October. In a highly con­troversial regatta marred by several timing er­rors, the Irish placed second out of four teams, behind the Universityof Toledo. 
Notre Dame's novice rowers showed progress in a regatta at Philadelphia over Thanksgiving break. In a 1500-meter timed race the Irish placed seventh of 35 teams, which included Penn, Ohio State, and Villanova. 
"We rowed well considering the competition we were up against," said Brian Lapps. "Penn's al­ways a tough school, and there were some other tough Eastern schools." 
The rowers have noticed their rapid improve­ment since the beginning of the year. "We've made a lot of progress in a short period 

APphoto 

Steve Largent was only one of the Seattle Seahawks who came out to smash the L.A. Raiders, 37-0, last night in Seattle. 
Giants, Parcells hope to capture NFC East title 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -George Martin was running the stairs and the New York Giants "Gym Rats" were pumping iron when Bill Parcells walked into the locker room Monday and smiled. 
Nothing was being taken for granted, and that's just the way the Giants coach wanted it as the team stood on the verge of its first division title in 23 years following Sunday's 24-14 vic­tory over the Washington Redskins. 
The Giants, 12-2, can nail down the NFC east crown by either winning one of their final two games or by having Wash­ington lose one of its final two games. 
"The idea is to get in (the playoffs)," Parcells said. "We're in. Then, you try to give yourself the best advantage once you're in, and we're still trying to do that." 
To get the best possible ad­vantage in the playoffs, the Giants would have to win their final two games against St. Louis on Sunday and Green Bay the following Saturday. If they did that, New York would have the home field advantage for the entire playoffs. 
That doesn't seem a major task. Both contests are home games for New York and the Cardinals and Packers have combined to win six games this season. 
One of the reasons Parcells knew his team was not going to let up in the final weeks of the season was that half the squad came in Monday to work out in the training room. 
"They are fired up," he said. 
Rookie nose tackle Erik Howard and offensive tackle Brad Benson drew rave reviews from Parcells. 
ones who've stuck through it had a lot of dedica­tion," said Tom Barnhorst. "Our coach said he was amazed with our progress." 
Guy Weaser, who has rowed for UCLA and a few national teams, is coaching the novice team. Weaser, a teacher at nearby Culver High School, 

The Irish have been able to be competitive with only about 20 students in the novice program. 
Seahawks shut down Raiders, 37-0 
A'Ssociated Press 
SEATTLE -Dave Krieg passed for a pair of touch­downs, Curt Warner ran for two more scores and Seattle's defense recorded a team­record 11 sacks Monday night as the Seattle Seahawks kept their NFL playoff hopes alive with a 37-0 victory over the Los Angeles Raiders. 
The loss dealt a harsh blow to the Raiders' playoff chances and meant they no longer were in control of their own destiny with two regular-season games remaining. Both the Seahawks and the Raiders now are 8-6. Both teams trail Cincinnati, 9­5, in the race for the last wild­card playoff berth. 
It was the first time the Raiders had been shut out since Oct. 11, 1981, when they were blanked by Detroit, Denver and Kansas City in successive games. 
The Seahawks' victory also gave Denver, a loser Sunday, the AFC west championship. 
Krieg, benched for two games this season for poor play, passed 12 yards to Ray Butler and 10 yards to Steve Largent for touchdowns in the first half, as the Seahawks grabbed a 24-0 lead. Krieg com­pleted 14 of 21 passes for 243 yards and two touchdowns and also had five carries for 23 yards. 
TO LOOK YOUR BEST visit Town & Country 
Barber Shop Mishawaka open 9-6 Mon-Sat 255-0449 
, 

~SS'i~~~~ 
said Lapps. "It could get a lot bigger in the spring season." 
Although the Volleyball Club lost two of three matches in a pre-season tournament at Canada, the Irish were pleased with their performance. 
Notre Dame lost to host school and eventual champion Guolf 15-9, 15-10, lost to another Canadian school, Queens, 15-8, 4-15, 15-9, 10-15, 15­
13. However, the Irish were able to defeat Pitt in the final round, 15-3, 15-7, 10-15, 15-12. 
"For the Canadian teams, it's the end of the season, and we're just getting started. It seemed like the talent was at least equal, but they were more in synch," said Club Vice-President Mike O'Grady. "Through the day we played better to­gether as a team. 
"All the starters played pretty well, and other guys came off the bench and played pretty well. We're quantum leaps ahead of where we were last year at this time." 
The Volleyball Club opens its regular season against Toledo at the ACC Pit on January 21. 
Warner, who rushed 23 times for 116 yards, scored on runs of 5 and 3 yards while Norm Johnson added had field goals of 53, 51 and 46 yards. 
A noisy Kingdome crowd of 62,923 watched the Seahawks record their third straight vic­tory and their second shutout of the season. It was the Raiders' second loss in a row. 
The Seahawks recorded their club record 11 sacks against three Raiders' quarterbacks; Jim Plunkett, Marc Wilson and Rusty Hilger. 
Ron Mattes, the first 300­pound player in the 11-year his­tory of the Seattle Seahawks, isn't a 300-pounder any more. 
In the 14th week of the NFL's regular season, he was down to 290. 
"You take such a pounding week in and week out that it's really hard to keep your weight and your strength up," Mattes said in an interview before the Seahawks played the Los An­geles Raiders Monday night. 
"You need to do a lot of weightlifting, but the time fac­tor doesn't permit you to devote as much time as you need to lifting." 
Tuesday, December 9th 
8:00 Washington Hall 

The 6-klot-6 Mattes, a former defensive lineman at Virginia, says he weighed 302 pounds when the Seahawks' training camp opened in July. 
He also began as a backup. 
But Bob Cryder and Ron Es­sink, who were expected to be Seattle's regular offensive tackles in 1986, were contract holdouts. 
Cryder was cut by head Coach Chuck Knox after the regular season began after Cryder missed all of the Seahawks' training camp. Es­sink has been on the Seahawks' physically unable to perform list because of ailing elbows. 
Mattes has started in all 13 Seahawks games after spend­ing the entire 1985 season on the team's injured reserve list because of a back injury. 
Knox likes the job Mattes has done. 
"This is really Ron Mattes' first experience as an offensive tackle in the National Football League and he's improved," the coach said. "He's gotten better week in and week out. He's got it all ahead of him." 

tickets available from all Shenanigan members and at the door 
'CII'<;,'CIPr;rti?<;,"UI'<;,...<;,"UI'<;,"UI'<;,"UI'Q"UI'<;,"UI'<;,·c:t<:J."UI'Q c:?<;l·c:?<;,·c:?<:J.'c:?Q'c:?Q"UI'<;l c:?QC?<;,-c><:J.-c>Q· 

Semi-formal $4.00 admission 

FREE BEVERAGE from 9-llpm 
featuring: 

D.J. 
Champagne fountain Hors d'oeuvres Santa Claus Christmas tree, mistletoe 
~()~Cl~--------------------~-----T-ue-sda-y,D-ec-emb-er-9,1-986--p-age-11
Bloom County Berke Breathed Far Side Gary Larson 


C) t!Nio8 Unrverul Plltl SynOICIII 
Mark Williams 
Bobbing for poodles 

The Daily Crossword 


Beer Nuts 
Campus 
12:00 p.m.: Kellogg Institute Brown Bag Seminar, "Culture, Politics, and the Eth­nic Problem," by Rodrigo Montoya, Lima Peru, and Kellogg Institute Fellow, 131 Decio 12:10-12:55 p.m.: Art Noontalk, "A Way of the Cross: Sculpture and Drawings," by Rev. James F. Flanigan, C.S.C., ND, O'Shaughnessy Hall East Galleries 3:30p.m.: Chemical engineering graduate seminar with Prof. C.B. Allock, ND Freimann Chair Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, 356 Fitzpatrick 
4:30 p.m.: Biological sciences seminar, "Biochemistry of TN3 Transpotition," Dr. Michael Fennewald, ND, Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
7:30 p.m.: Tuesday Night Film Series, "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," 1953, color, 91 minutes, Howard Hawks, USA, Annen­berg Auditorium 
54 Clothing 58 Danish port 62 Samoan port
A Special Note 
63 Comical 65 Kitchen worker 66 Outlet 67 Kind of seal 68 Cabbage 69 Move little
A mass in memory of Michael C. Cogswell, the Zahm 
by little 70 Elysia

hall junior who died after he was struck by a car Friday 
71 Lean-to 

night, will be offered Wednesday at 5 p.m. in Sacred 
DOWN 

1 Whipping mark 2 Field 
Heart Church. The Observer encourages all to attend. 
3 Yarn fuzz 4 Shoemaker's 
Those who would like to help plan the liturgy should 
call Junior Class President Cathy Nonnenkamp at 283­
need 5 Part of Russ.
2690 or 239-5117. 6 Cuckoo 7 Way 8 "-by land..." 9 Make void 
-****:+SAB and the Classes of'88 & '89 present :**************lltf
*

* 
!*! '­
* 
: 
* 
* 
* 
*
*
* 
* 
ACROSS

7:30 p.m.: Basketball ND vs. Indiana, 
1 Partition 

5 Flavor 10 Secondhand 14 Pa. port city 15 Pointless 
ACC 
Dinner Menus 

16 Cone or dive 17 Singing Horne
Notre Dame 

18 Nips 19 Turnstile Roast Breast of Turkey 
20 Tell on 22 Made sin-
Beef Stuffed Pepper 
gultuses
Spinach Quiche 
24 Rabbit 

26 Conflagration 27 Sticky stuff 31 For the­
(temporarily) 
Tuna Muffin w!Cheese 

34 Heady drink 35 Was ill 37 Melt 
Saint Mary's 

39 Unfavorable 40 Govt. gp. 
Baked Meatloaf w/gravy 
Turkey & Dumplings 
41 Native of:
Vegetable Calzone 
suff.
Deli Bar 

42 Marine plant 44 Hide 46 Leg part 47 Doctrine 49 Coastal region 51 Cleopatra's 
attendant 53 Trickle 

C>1986 Tnbune Media Servtces. Inc. 
All Rights Reserved 
10 Ointment 11 Cleansing agent 
12 lt. noble 
family 13 Legal paper 21-Palmas 23 --Magnon 25 Oust 27 Biblical title 
of honor 28 Distributed 
cards 29 Garden item 30 Inventor Howe 32 Porcelain 33 Dinner guest 36 Facilitated 38 Unwanted 
plant 43 Living 44 Certain 
playgoer 45 Robbins and 
Pinter 46 Russ. coins 48 Before 
Yesterday's Puzzle Solved: 
F A T EI''wE E ••,, " • ' 
U R A l P 0 l KA l 0 G0 ""-~rQ. KHA MMliJ!. I T A L 
._,~:;~ 
NA NC Y M0 P E A N0 A ••0 C T ASESH 0 V E L N U 8 S D 0 E R ~,_C_ I D E G R E T ENSWATHE G~ 
II''' 
-1 NICA POOR HAN Nill.P A S s•cAJ'J. 

ODIN WARDH~ELER 8 AN E AWA R E 8 A R E 0 MAR Y E ME N 8 I T E 
50 Command 59 Beery or 52 Fine violin Webster 54 Was generous 60 Flatfish 55 Mimicked 61 -out (sup­56 Fighters' plemented) 
place 64 Writer 57 Achy Deighton 


SAB PRESENTS

Decorate-a-tree *! 
~-....

Miracle on 34th Street , 
at the esc ~ ! 
Wednesday and Thursday
·4:30·6:30 phl : * 
7,9,11 pm.

' Friday, Dec.12*
* .=ngineering Auditorium $1.50 
Help the NIHP klda, IIHie ~en/IIHie llaten • faculty'• * Absolutely no food or drink allowed klda ~rateIlb.,. will be a lanta, candy canu, * cqqklu, hqt oqcqa, hqt clder•.•lhen, after GlH Club * Cqncerf: llelgh rfdu • rnqre hqt oqcqa, elder and * Do you believe in Santa Claus? ' cqqldulll * 

* * 
~****************************************~ 
.------~----~ -----------~---­
---------------------------------------------------.. 
Tuesday, December 9, 1986-page 12

S~orts 
Sophomore trio keys Notre DaiDe as swimmers take Irish Invitational 
By KEVIN McCORMACK for Notre Dame's dominance breastroke in 1:02.33, Bohdan Sports Writer by cruising to a first-place time took the 200-yard backstroke in of 3:41.46. From there, the Irish 2:05.32, and Miro swam an im­
The Notre Dame men's took at least first and second pressive 47.85 in the 100-yard swimming team completed the in the first five races, breezing freestyle. weekend very content with its to an insurmountable 67-13 performances against lead. Other individual winners in­Mankato State and in the Irish cluded Vogel and Chris Green, Invitational. Coach Tim Welsh ''The performances were a who took the 400 and 200 inter­was particularly pleased with measurement of our mediate medleys, respective­his team's superlative perfor­depth. "said Welsh. "Because ly. mance, and was quick to com­of our immediate size advan­pliment his much-improved tage, we could afford to put According to Welsh, the long team. people in any event they haul ahead will really start in 
"It was a weekend full of ex­wanted." January, despite the team's cellent swimming. If I were to hand out out grades, there At the Irish Invitational on tactical preparation for last would have been a lot of A's," Saturday, Notre Dame contin­weekend's encounters. commented Welsh. "The team ued its dominance, winning the "In both our training and in just did a superb job. four-team meet with ease after our meet scheduling, January 
"We don't have another meet compiling 274 points. Wayne will be the most difficult month for about a full month due to State was second with 95, Fer­of the season," said Welsh. "I exams, so it was extremely im­ris State was third with 91, and think we can be sucessful, portant to do well this the University of Wisconsin at however, because this season weekend." Milwaukee finished last with we have more depth, speed, 
On Friday, Notre Dame 89. and confidence than we have in crushed an undermanned the past. Mankato State squad, 134-78. Particularly impressive in 
The first event of the meet the meet was a sophomore trio "We're pleased with the was the 400 medley relay. Com­of individual winners that in­results of this weekend, but not prised of Roger Miro, Brian cluded Charles Neidhoeffer, satisfied. The results were Vogel, Mark Jensen, and Chris Eric Bohdan, and Miro. Neid­good, but we're looking for Petrillo, the team set the pace hoeffer won the 100-yard even better ones in the future." 
Older brother helps Garske bring talent to ND backcourt 
By BRIAN O'GARA Garske displayed this prog­ment to college basketball was we played them like any other years that Garske developed Sports Writer ress at the first opportunity, in not a piece of cake. team. We had a chance to beat her sharp-shooting talents and Notre Dame's season-opening "It was hard at first because them. We played a tough game, ability to rebound well againstThe Notre Dame women's 71-50 loss to Rutgers. She Coach (DiStanislao) wants to but they were really good," larger opponents. These two basketball team takes on In­scored 12 points in only 19 break you of bad habits that said Garske. skills have made her a valuable diana University tonight in the minutes of play to lead the of­you get in high school. You've Garske is third in a line of asset off the bench for Coach ACC at 7:30p.m. with hopes to fense. got to work a lot harder in col­top-notch Wisconsin players on DiStanislao and the Irish. pick up their first win of the "Julie Garske obviously lege. It's pretty tough at first the Irish team. Junior Sandy Garske is ready and anxious to young season after three showed that she can score. but now it's coming along Botham (Madison,WI) was an prove herself as a steady per­losses. She's got that ability and we're pretty well." all-state selection in 1984, while former, but at the same time 
Despite the team's slow looking for her to continue com­"Pretty well" is an under­sophomore Heidi Bunek she realizes her role as a fresh­start, freshman guard Julie ing around as the year goes statement. Besides leading the (Milwaukee,WI) was Wiscon­man. Garske has quickly developed on," added DiStanislao. Irish with 12 points in the sin's Miss Basketball in 1985. "I would like to do more but her role as a key player off the Garske, an Amherst,WI na­opener, she scored seven points Garske attributes a great I have to earn my position bench. tive, showed her high school op­and pulled down six rebounds deal of her success on the bas­before I can start playing 
"Julie is a good basketball ponents that she could score by against Texas in Notre Dame's ketball court to her oldest bro­more," she adds. player and a fine athelete," averaging 24.7 points per game 84-59loss to the top-ranked Lon­ther, Scott. Garske suffered a setback in said Notre Dame head coach in her senior year to go along ghorns this past weekend. The "He would have his friends Notre Dame's loss to Colorado Mary DiStanislao. "She's with twelve rebounds per freshman did not appear awed over and he'd always let me on Saturday, catching an elbow going to be a heckuva back­game. This earned her the title at all by playing against the goof around and play with in the second half that resulted court player. She has a solid of Miss Basketball 1986 in Wis­defending national champions. them. Then he started teaching in a fractured nose. Her status understanding of the game and consin, and a spot on the Con­"It was a great opportunity. me and telling me to dribble for tonight's contest is made great progress in pre­verse All-American team. Not everyone has a chance to my basketball." season practice." Garske noted that the adjust-play the number-one team, but It was during these early see GARSKE, page 8 

Lack of consistency frustrates Irish as wrestlers struggle in Las Vegas 
By STEVE MEGARGEE and 142-pound sophomore Pat back, helping the Cowboys lose Boyd placed eighth for the out to third-ranked Iowa State
Sports Writer 
Irish. for the tournamenf champion­
Despite several accomplish­Perhaps the most impressive ship. ments in last weekend's Las individual performance came "That's probably a first-ever Vegas Invitational, too much from, 118-pound freshman happening for Notre Dame. competition and too little con­Andy Radenbaugh, who did not That's what we shoot for, to sistency kept the Notre Dame place. Radenbaugh came away beat that kind of competition,'' wrestling team from reaching with four wins and only two said McCann. 
its goals. losses against some of the toug­Still, as often as the Irish up­
The Irish, who were hoping hest opposition in the country. set highly regarded opponents, to finish in the top 10, placed "He pinned his first op­they were surprised by lesser twelfth out of 40 schools. The ponent, and in his second known wrestlers. 
team wanted to place four in­match, he lost to an Oklahoma "We were plagued by incon­
dividuals, but was able to place State kid, 14-11, who ended up sistency. Jerry (Durso) lost to 
three. second in the tournament. a kid which was totally unex­
"We lost some close Andy won his next three pected, then he met him again matches, and we were only a matches, then he lost to the kid in a consolation round and couple of matches away from who placed third," said Jerry handled him," said 
reaching our goals," said Head McCann. "He wrestled awfully McCann:"We've just got to be­Coach Fran McCann. "It was well for a freshman." come more consistent. You by far, next to the NCAA's, the Radenbaugh is not the only have to be up for every match toughest tournament in the Irish wrestler who helped in a tournament like this or The Observer /File Photo country." make Notre Dame stick in you'll get knocked off." 
Freshman Julie Garske and the rest of the Notre Dame women's Sophomore 167-pounder fourth-ranked Oklahoma Notre Dame also had prob­basketball team will host Indiana tonight at the A.C.C. Brian Chris Geneser placed fourth, State's mind. Boyd and lems in the third period, as the O'Gara features the outstanding newcomer and previews tbe 124-pound sophomore captain · Geneser beat two wrestlers game in his story above. Jerry Durso placed seventh, from Oklahoma State back to see WRESTLERS, page 8 





